

11l
• ■
V
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks m their
Bondon cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Htd. will supply details of this service. Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before 16th November.
THE HOUSE
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64. G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
YHntuTTlim Ut" "TUU lit WlfUWIi, UtLHRtI
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3843
Wednesday, October 7, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
PEMBROKE CASTLE, IMPOSING MILITARY ARCHITECTURE OF OTHER DAYS
ONE of the largest and most impressive fortresses in Wales is Pembroke
Castle, which is surrounded on three sides by the tidal waters ol the
Pembroke River near Milford Haven. The original castle was founded soon
after the Norman Conquest by Arnulf de Montgomery, son of Roger, Earl ot
Shrewsbury. Later it passed into the hands of Henry I, who conferred it on
Gilbert Strongbow, created Earl of Pembroke in 1109. It was from here that
Richard Strongbow sailed in 1148 on his expedition to Ireland.
The castle as it exists today dates mainly from the thirteenth century,
when it was rebuilt by William Marshal, Earl of Pembroke, and its dominating
feature is the magnificent four-stoned Keep, 75 feet high, with walls varying
in thickness from seven to twenty feet. Ihe floors in the Keep have disappeaie ,
but the domed stone roof still survives. Near by is the Prison Tower and the
ruins of the Great Hall, from where a spiral staircase descends to a large
underground cavern that originally formed the water-gate of the castle.
The Outer Ward is enclosed by a wall, strengthened with seven bastion-
lowers and entered by a magnificent gatehouse, whtcj
unusual external barbican and internal angle towers connected b> a Hying arcn.
The castle is still regarded as a fine example of Norman and Early English
styles of military architecture. So formidable was its defence when besieged
in the seventeenth century that it was regarded as almost
required all the strategy and force of Cromwell to subdue it during the Civil
War of Charles I. The fortress was held for the Crown in 1648, and hnaliy
surrendered after a six-weeks siege when Cromwell, using artillery, destroyed
its water supply. The defenders were found guilty of treason, and one of
the leading commanders, John Foyer, mayor of Pembroke, was shot m
London’s Covent Garden nine months later.
In 1457 Pembroke Castle was the birthplace of Henry Tudor, who later
became King Henry VII, son of Edmund Tudor and Margaret Beaufort. The
room in which the monarch was born is reputed to be one of those above
the Gatehouse.


JLearn
Story
flhimv tbe urge t 0 wrlte and the
STOTTW? ®* pre f s ? our thoughts on paper,
L .-t i- b can tram you to write Short
Ta°lts S ’ptr« 1C w S ’ Writte 0 Sketches, Radio
Read ’ V ? rSe l etc - that will SELL,
letters • extracts from Stott-Students
"^7O/* rn fe f n T my writiDg total almost
“During the past six months my accep-
“/ ikfl ave returned me over £200.”
x nst Hereunder my tn iha
(l amount of £lOO/10/9.” ceptances t 0 tbe
I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
<w d „ br , oadc , ast hy the A.B.CV’
The SIItTZZ
for^'cgu ^l6 al ° ne WiU almoSt
ul A f *°Z Mirror ’
g
100 Russell St, Melbourne; 149 Castlereaah St
Sydney ; 290 'Adelaide _ St.,Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
f OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON |
J To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli- |
- gallon, your Prospectus, and full particulars of !
your Literary Courses. I
| MY NAME
| ADDRESS
(S.B. 853)
IGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 9).
T he RedPage
FULL FATHOM FIVE
Like Casteret’s Ten Years Under the
Earth and Thor Heyerdahl’s book of the
Kon-tiki voyage Captain J. Y. Cousteau’s
The Silent World (Hamish Hamilton)
needs no recommendation. It is enough
to say that the book exists; and that
Cousteau is the inventor of the “aqua-
lung,” by means of which he and his
French colleagues go swimming about
the deeps of the ocean as freely and
easily as fish.
Merely to look at the colored dust-
cover in which, looking half like a Roman
soldier and half like a frog, Cousteau
bounds through the blue water with
bunches of scarlet coral or seaweed in his
hands must have been enough to tempt
many a customer in a bookshop.
But it would be a pity, merely because
it is thus automatically a bestseller, not
to talk about it a little. There may be
readers who have not yet encountered it;
and its sqbject is of such special appeal
to Australia, where the spear-fishermen
have already, with their comparatively
crude and limited apparatus, begun to
shoal in dozens off the rocks ; where the
warm waters of the Barrier Reef and
elsewhere are so ideally suitable for
aqualunging ; and where, in consequence,
this device—there are already hundreds
of aqualungs for hire to visitors along
the French Rmera—is certain to become
immensely popular in the near future . , .
perhaps, though Cousteau has never had
much trouble with any dangerous fish,
popular with sharks as well as with
swimmers.
Besides, The Silent World, apart from
the fascination of its subject, is in itself
an excellent piece of writing. It could
hardly be otherwise so long as Cousteau
wrote simply of what he has seen, ten,
twenty, 100 and 300 feet down in the
ocean ; and he does write not only simply
but vividly, proving like other fine prose-
writers both in French and English how
close are the talents of the adventurer and
the artist.
_ Cousteau is a thinker, too, and one of
his most amusing asides is to correct
Sigmund Freud on a small point relating
to the flying-dream. Swimming under-
water with the aqualung, he says, when
you are neither more-or-less tethered to
the surface by the obligations of the
schnorkel tube like the Australian spear-
nshefroan of today nor anchored to the
bottom by the cumbrous costume of the
traditional diver, but are free to turn
somersaults, to stand on your head if
>ou want to, to shoot backwards and
forwards, up aqd down, with all the ease
of the daring young man on the flying-
trapeze, gives exactly the sensation of
flying. Before he invented the aqualung
Cousteau enjoyed many flying-dreams,
oince he began to use it he has never had
one. The flying-dream, consequently
does not represent a longing for the
practicalities of love, as Freud supposed •
but a longing to fly . . . which seems,
indeed, very likely.
But let Cousteau himself tell how he
first, m .Tune, 1943, at Bandol on the
Riviera, put on his “new and promising
evice, an automatic compressed-air
diving-lung conceived by Emile Gagnan
and myself,” and plunged into his strange
new world;— s
. friends harnessed the three-cylinder
block on my back with the regulator ridThg
at the nape of my neck and the hoses
looped over my head. I spat on the inside
of my shatter-proof glass mask and rinsed
it in the surf, so that mist would not form
mside....l looked into the sea with the
same sense of trespass that I have felt on
every dive. A modest canyon opened below,
full of dark-green weeds, black sea-urchins,
and small flowerlike white algae. Finger-
lings browsed in the scene. The sand sloped
down into a clear blue infinity. The sun
struck so brightly I had to squint.
My arms hanging at my sides, I kicked
the fins languidly and travelled down, gain-
ing speed, watching the beach reeling past.
I stopped kicking and the momentum
carried me on a fabulous glide.... I reached
the bottom in a state of excitement. A
school of silvery sars (goat-bream), round
and flat as saucers, swam in a rocky chaos.
-■••I experimented with all possible
manoeuvres of the aqualung—loops, somer-
saults and barrel-rolls. I Stood upside-down
°i?-,? ne ,-^ nger an< * hurst out laughing—a
shrill distorted laugh. Whatever I did,
nothing altered the automatic rhythm of
air. Delivered from gravity and buoyancy
I flew around in space.
Cousteau has, in fact, quite a lot in
common with Casteret of the cave-books,
for some of his exploits have been in
freshwater; exploring, for example, the
fountain of Vaucluse, near Avignon, a
quiet pool in a crater under a limestone
cliff which mysteriously swells high in
flood for five weeks every springtime—an
occasion of drama and great peril:
I was on the floor of a vast drowned
cave. My head ached. I was drained of
initiative. I was attached to something. I
remembered. The flashlight picked out a
rope which curled off to a strange .form
floating supine above the pebbles. Dumas
hung there in his cumbersome equipment,
holding his torch like a ridiculous glow-
worm. Only his arms were moving. His
black frogman suit was filling with water.
I swam to him and looked at his depth-
gauge. It read 150 feet. The dial was
flooded. We were deeper than that. We
were at least 200 feet down, 400 feet away
from the surface at the bottom of a
crooked, slanting tunnel. Above us some-
where were 70 fathoms of tunnel and
crumbling rock. My weakened brain found
the power to conjure up our fate. When
our air ran out we would grope along the
ceiling and suffocate in dulled agony.
He has even more, of course, in
common with Heyerdahl; for the Kon-
tiki book, besides being a brilliant and
gallant proof of the practicability of a
very plausible theory, contained one of
the most notable collections of fish
brought up to the surface since Izaak
Walton; and TJie Silent World teems
with fish.
Dumas, in the first flush of excitement
when they began aqualunging, speared
everything in sight until the fish appar-
ently became educated and, says
Cousteau, learned to keep just out of
range of his spear-gun. It sounds
fantastic, but after all birds have always
been found tame at first in uninhabited
countries, then quickly learning to be-
ware of man ; and maybe even fish are
not entirely devoid of commonsense.
Cousteau’s own most memorable fish-
ing exploits— not counting a time when
he was the fish himself, and half a dozen
highly suspicious-looking sharks the
hunters—have been with lobsters; with
which noble fruit every submarine cave
and hold or cabin of a wrecked ship
seems to be draped with extraordinary
opulence. One of his companions, Didi
even found two of the creatures perched'
in the top shroud-ring of the sunken
baumur, torpedoed during the war—“the
first time 1 had ever seen lobsters on a
mast.” There werp more lobsters in the
baumnr’s cabin, crawling in the basins
and bathtubs. Here is Cousteau himself
among them—in a cave on his first aqua-
lung dive:— n
The roof of the cave was thronged with
lobsters. They stood there like great flies
on a ceiling. Their heads and antennas
were pointed towards the cave-entrance
I selected a pair of one-pound lobsters and
carefully plucked them from the roof,
without touching their stinging spines.
Simone had been floating, watching my
bubbles wherever I went. She swam down
towards me. I handed her the lobsters
and went down again as she returned to
the surface.
Some other choice fish-dishes in the
book are descriptions of a fish-wedding ;
of dancing with octopuses for fun ; of an
“octopus-city” which these odd beasts had
built for themselves on the floor of the
ocean; of Didi fighting a 40-pound
merou (apparently a kind of groper) in
the crevices of a wreck ; of hundreds of
huge fish threshing in the narrowing
prison of a drag-net; of dynamited fish
scattered wastefully on the bottom (far
more sink than rise to the surface); of
the squeaks of porpoises which Cousteau
thinks may' serve them as a kind of
direction-finding radar ; and of the “dense
blanket of living organisms so vast as to
tilt the imagination” which scientists
suspect may lie deep down to form the
“scattering layer” recorded on the echo-
sound tape.
But fish-stories are only a part of the
wealth of interest in this book. It
is also about Diesel engines found in
perfect condition in a wreck after
three years in the sea, and even
a cargo of flour found largely
undamaged because the outer layer had
formed a protective paste; about
Cousteau and his companions offering
themselves as human guinea-pigs to test
the effect of depth-charges (if you weren’t
killed by the pressure, that proved that
men wouldn’t be killed at that range, so
you tried again, a little closer); about
going down to retrieve the pathetic bodies
of drowned airmen, lying tranquilly
asleep on the sea-floor —with the foot-
note that no skeletons haunt the alley-
ways of any but the most recent wrecks —
the sea and its creatures devour all; about
nding a submarine through the deep
water; about Piccard and his bathysphere ;
about the possibilities of the aqualung
m warfare; and about exploring in “the
drowned museum” of the Mediterranean
the wrecked ships of classic Athens,
bringing up to the surface lonic columns
ot marble and “a hundred amphoras,
most of them with the corks still in place.
A few had well-preserved waxen seals
bearing the initials of ancient Greek
wine-merchants.’*
PENGUIN
(near Fluted Cape)
O strut above the littered shore
with scissors for a voice,
that cut against the stubborn wind
like ice against ice;
and nest within the north sunlight
and build within your season’s tide,
and reconcile the sea and land—
O walk with fragile pride
between the edge of the jetsam sea
and the changing ledge of rock and tree
where you defy the storm and calm,
whose storm and calm move with each
other
and knit like bones within your shape
the ice of the scoured south
and the north-black of the cape.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
Lady Eleanor Smith
Best-known to the public as the
authoress of The Man in Grey, Lady
Eleanor Smith was an entertainment in
her own right, as is amply demonstrated
by her brother’s biography of her, Lady
Eleanor Smith. a Memoir by Lord Birken-
head (Hutchinson).
In childhood, she even managed to
shine in the shadow of their father, F E
Smith ; she invented and spread the story
that his family had gipsy blood; she
wiote letters in the characters of a
governess offering her services and en-
closing a snapshot of the pretty wife of
a famous politician, and of a mother
vainly trying to get a school to take her
unruly daughter; and to “Sir Rupert
Retriever, c/o King Alfonso, The Palace
Madrid”:
To our amazement we received fascinat-
ing replies, signed Rupert Retriever, describ-
ing how he had been hunting with King
Alfonso. It was only recently that I dis-
covered that they were written by Miss Vita
Sackville-West, who was then in Madrid
and to whom the British Ambassador had
shown our letter.
There is some account of their
Christmasses at the Duke of Marl-
borough’s palace, Blenheim, full of balls
and “the extravagant fantasies of the
Oxfordshire yeomanry.” Their father
liked to do things properly, “though
modest in comparison with others”:
When his family arrived at Blenheim they
were accompanied by four hunters for F.E.,
two for his wife, two ponies, three grooms
two nurses, a maid and a valet.
Unhappy at an English boarding-
school, Lady Eleanor and some other
English girls at a French school made a
practice of escaping down a tree out-
side their window by night, picking up
the local hairdresser and mechanic, and
indulging in orgies of vin ordinaire and
anisette at the village cafe. Rumors of
these events reaching his Lordship, he
quickly installed her in the home of a
Belgian baron at Brussels, among whose
casual and easygoing family she was very
happy. Returning to England she made
her debut in the post-war world, a
reluctant debutante who had to be dragged
to dances, from which she would escape
within half an hour of her arrival.
But not without spirit. With her
friends, the Jungmans, she indulged in
the cross-London paperchases that livened
up life for the bright-young-things of the
post-war years; and among their best
achievements was their passing-off the
fifteen-year-old “Baby” Jungman as
Eleanor’s young stepmother;
They would pick out a suitable girls’
school, and Baby Jungman would inter-
view the headmistress with a view to placing
Eleanor in the school, while one of the
young men [i.e., the present Lord Birken-
head] would stand in the background, a
bizarre figure, usually dressed as a woman,
in an old coat of my mother’s called
“Laughing Cheese.”
They passed Baby Jungman off as
Madame Vorolsky,” a Russian refugee
with priceless jewels to sell, on Mr.
Beverley Nichols at “a private meeting in
a dim restaurant with a jewel-casket on
the table under which crouched Eleanor
and Zita (Jungman)”; on the Duke of
Marlborough; and finally, with two
leashed Borzois and a purple orchid, on
a distinguished soldier at a garden-party
at the height of the London season:
“Oh, Seer ’Enry—Nevair shall I forget
that vanderful night we spent together in
Paris in the war.”
The General flushed and looked anxiously
at his wife.
“To the best of my recollection,
madame,” he replied coldly, “I only spent
one night in Paris during the whole war.”
. Zat,” replied Baby archly, “was zee
night.”
As newspaper-reporters, they took in
Mae Murray, Tom Mix, George
Arliss, Alice Joyce, Clive Brook, Colleen
Moore, Alma Taylor and Norma Tal-
madge, but were seen-through by Lilian
Gish and John Barrymore. Eleanor and
Zita spent a night in Madame Tussaud’s
Chamber of Horrors, for a bet, but
Eleanor said nothing could induce her to
do it again.
At 17, Lady Eleanor had submitted a
novel to John Lane of the Bodley Head ;
he asked to see her, was surprised at her
youth, but gave her advice on how to im-
prove her novel. Later he learned her
real name ; she explained that she did not
want to trade on her father’s fame. He
shook his head emphatically; “That’s not
the way I do business.” But a few days
later he died, and her interest in rewriting
her novel lapsed. But when hoaxes began
to bore her, she secured a £3-a-week job
writing women’s gossip for an evening
paper; and later through Charles Graves
got a Sunday-paper column, “From my
window in Vanity Fair,” and later an
extra job on another weekly as film-critic.
Tiring in turn of these occupations, she
began to read about circuses, and then
threw up her jobs to go touring with the
Great Carmo Circus. She had always
loved gipsies; and the circus life
delighted her, and produced her first
novel. Red Wagon. Her father, who had
been much annoyed at her leaving
journalism, was cold and even bitter at
the news of its acceptance; but its success,
and some words of praise from his life-
long friend Winston Churchill, produced
an evidence of his real greatness and
charm. He sent for her, and “began
fishing sheepishly in his pocket”:
“While I still think that you will have
trouble in living up to this success I’ve
brought you this little present ”
He produced a brooch of rubies and
diamonds, the brooch in the form of a
caravan, the rubies the wagon body; the
diamonds, the wheel-spokes and window,
the tender preparation which was evident
in this, gift, after his previous sullenness,
bound Eleanor very closely to my father.
There is also talk of her meeting with
Diaghiiev, and the studies which produced
her novel on the ballet C Ballerina ); of
her journey to Paris with a friend to com-
fort Lifar and Kochno when they arrived
back from Italy after the death of
Diaghiiev, and how the only thing that
appealed to them was an amusement-
park with roundabouts and a big-dipper;
of her interest in flamenco singers in
Spain; of the storm of criticism that
followed a photograph of her smoking
in the campus of an American university,
and of a visit by Valentino, whom they
had met m Europe, to their town house;
Men’s clothes appeared to be his only
topic. The women remained eager and
sympathetic, but I fancied, after three-
quarters of an hour of Valentino on the
(Continued on page 35)
SNOW
Snow, white snow, I am warned.
You are not white, or else
whiteness is a reflecting
surface for color
and we must choose for you
from the brightest pigments
of the palette. True, you
who are colorless invite
color to rest in you and dance
upon your surfaces.
How often is the obvious
the least of truth
concerning people, opinion, snow
and the legendary innocence of youth.
N.Z.
W. HART SMITH.


X
k
not
everybody
likes
vanilla!
J.: ' '
mmmm.
H ■■
i i
■
t i
Wsm
iiil
■
•: ' :- V
/• ■ ■
m
u
m
v'- : -
1 '
'
: r
i i
:
~; ; y
m
■
H
,
Mil
:.:V-
For the reason that your favorite soda fountain offers
every flavor that’s in season ... so does Anthony Horderns
feature the largest range of men’s shoes in the widest
possible range of sizes, your best choice of style, leather,
and price becomes an easy choice,
a "TRUTH- IN ADVERTISING"
nthoDj Hordern’
TOP LEFT
Julius Marlow Bold Brogue with the very popular Wall toe
and very stout soles in black or tan calf. Sixty measured
fittings sizes 5 to 12. Price 89/-.
TOP RIGHT
Packard Hampton last in black or tan calf also available
in plain toe derby with leather soles, 86/-. Golf shoes, rubber
soles, 88/6. Brogues, 98/-. Fractional fittings sizes 5 to 12.
MIDDLE LEFT
Julius Marlow casual, a really fine choice in comfortable casuals.
Beautifully worked moccasin front and leather soles
in tan calf. Sixty measured fittings in sizes 5 to 12. Price 74/6.
MIDDLE RIGHT
Julius Marlow Moccasin Golf Shoe with rubber soles and heels in
brown calf. Sixty measured fittings sizes 5 to 12. Price 79/-.
BOTTOM LEFT
Whybrows “Lennox” last, black or tan calf fractional fittings
sizes 5 to 11. Price 76/6.
BOTTOM RIGHT
Hansmans “Monty” last in finest quality black or tan calf, also
black and brown glace kid. Fractional fitting sizes 5 to 1 1. Price 109/-
■
■■ ■ : .
■■■
Hi
4-. r.
■
■
■ .
m
K
4-■•;
w
■
■
’.V:
•' <, 5
H
ISi
.
•>; ■ •
Hi
■■Hi
m
• ; ; ; £•
■
i
■H
m
m
£> A
0,: M .
' '
s
m
m
mm
< -
V
' ' i: ‘ ' w
: '
mnmnpp
if
mm
TV
f
. si
■|»v
f . , -;r
i' W
sill
.
:'■<
mte
!».■'•« ■• t
mm
... r y*s -.. ». * >^p


Risks, Rescues and Needed Regulations
SEA SAFETY
By "STANDBY"
SEVERAL times each year our
Queensland newspapers inform us
that a certain launch or fishing-boat
is missing or overdue. Usually, a
day or two later we read that the launch
has been found and that all on board are
safe. Sometimes, of course, only a few
pieces of wreckage reward the searchers.
Then the average reader says, “Another
unsolved tragedy of the sea. It bears
out what I’ve always said. Small boats
are unsafe.”
The facts behind these missing and
overdue cases nearly always prove the
fallacy of such a statement. Unfortu-
nately, we rarely find definite proof of
the causes of the tragedies. But, for a
start, let us concede the point that the
sea is a creature of moods and that she
demands the respect due to her when she
is in a surly mood; Those who fail to
give her that respect are asking for
trouble. Sometimes they get it. Far
more often they are let off too lightly.
What actually happens in those cases?
Take, for example, Mr. X, who has
taken three of his pals out for a weekend
fishing-party in his motor-launch. They
are going to Bee Island, where good
hauls of swapper have been reported, and
they’ll be home by sundown on Sunday.
By ten o’clock on Sunday night Mrs. X
is definitely worried. Charles has never
been as late as this. At midnight, having
listened to reports of mountainous seas
from the wives of the other members of
the party, she rings the police and
demands immediate action.
The police-sergeant on duty listens
politely to her demands, asks a few lead-
ing-questions and promises her that
everything possible will be done. He
then rings the Harbormaster, who groans
sleepily, “What? Not another of ’em?”
The Harbormaster asks for details, snorts
at the answers and finishes up: “Right-
oh, Sergeant. We can’t do anything to-
night. If they don’t show up by morning
we’ll organise a search. They’re not
likely to come to any harm in the mean-
time. The sea’s as flat as my floor
tonight.”
“Four blokes adrift in a crazy little
tub called the Nancy Lee,” he informs
his now-thoroughly-awakened wife. “I
wouldn’t go outside the river in that thing
if you paid me fifty quid an hour.”
Next morning Mrs. X’s brother is
right on the spot as spokesman for the
four wives. When is someone going to
start doing something? It’s after nine
o’clock and X has never been late for
work in all the year’s he’s been working
for the Council. This is serious. The
four men might be out there clinging to
the bottom of their upturned boat. Every
minute is vital,
A.N.A., on being contacted, very
generously divert their southbound plane
to examine Bee Island anchorage. Their
pilot reports by radio, “No sign of any
small craft in the vicinity of Bee Island.”
T.A.A. plane coming north takes a
wider sweep over the sea and comes
even lower. His report is also negative.
The pilot-launch has to meet an incoming
ship, but the skipper of a tourist-launch
cancels a profitable booking, tops-up
with fuel, takes on extra food, and heads
out. The senior sergeant of police has
put one of his best men on board —just
in case.
By sundown the tourist skipper has
made a thorough search of Bee Island.
As he can do nothing further until day-
light he anchors for the night. Next
morning he leaves at daybreak and
examines two near-by islands without
success. Then, acting on a hunch, he
opens his engines full throtle and heads
in the opposite direction for Zed Island.
The sea has risen overnight and at this
speed his launch is taking quite a bash-
ing. But what does that matter when
human lives are at stake? Midway
between the two islands an Air Force
bomber roars low overhead. She
circles the launch twice before waggling
her wings and departing seaward. She
also has joined in the search.
It is dusk when the tourist-launch
reaches Zed Island. “Nothing here,” a
seasick policeman announces dismally.
How much longer must he suffer like
this? But the skipper has sighted a small
blob off the far point. He swings towards
it, throttles down, and a few minutes
later four delighted men are scrambling
aboard.
Food and drink are ready for them.
And boy, are they,thirsty! And hungry!
Not a bite to eat or a drop of water
since Sunday evening. And cramped!
Not even room to scratch yourself
properly in the little Nancy Lee. Blasted
engine conked out just as they were
leaving for home. They’d taken turns
at cranking the damned thing till their
hands were blistered, but not even a kick
out of the cursed thing. Bee Island?
Oh yes, they had meant to go there, but
they’d changed their minds soon after
they started out and decided to give this
place a go . . .
The skipper leaves them in the capable
hands of his cook and drops down into
the Nancy Lee. He cleans the plugs of
the ancient car-engine, drains some water
out of the carburettor, primes it and
swings the crank-handle. The spluttering
gurgle of the under-water exhaust brings
four amazed diners to the rail, but the
launch skipper has no time for explana-
tions,
“We’ll tow her back,” he announces.
“You’ll be safer aboard here. Besides,
that engine still don’t sound too healthy
to me.”
Is all this an exaggerated piece of
fiction? No. Simply one case quoted at
random from a dozen others,
r Fhe pity of it is that if any one of
those four men had known anything
about simple mechanics they could have
started that engine. If they’d carried a
sail they could have sailed their boat
home. If they’d even carried a pair of
oars they could have rowed it the fifty-
odd yards across to the island and got
water from the spring. Instead, they
could only wait in misery for their
rescuers.
And who pays for all this searching?
The airlines pay for the extra fuel they
use and the taxpayer pays for the bomber
and the policeman. And the tourist-
launch skipper? He’s about £3O out of
pocket on the deal. Of course, if the
rescued party and their relatives are
grateful enough, and he’s tough enough,
he may be repaid in full. Quite often
the rescued mariners feel that a few
rounds of beer at the waterfront pub
have squared the debt. Life is not so very
precious—when the danger is past . . .
How do so many small-boat owners
get into trouble? Mainly through
ignorance or sheer carelessness. Some
craft used for weekend cruising would
be condemned on sight as unseaworthy
by any experienced seaman. Others are
powered with worn car-engines quite un-
suited for the job. The lack of proper
equipment in some of these craft is as
astounding as their owners’ lack of know-
ledge on even the rudiments of seaman-
ship.
Before going further it is only fair to
point out that these charges do not
a PPIy to all small-boat owners. Fortu-
nately there are V many sturdy, well-
equipped yachts and cabin-cruisers on the
Queensland coast, and their owners can
justly pride themselves on their seaman-
ship. Of course, in unpredictable circum-
stances, things can sometimes happen to
them, too.
But there is the other type, and in
case charges of ignorance and carelessness
on the part of some of its members may
sound unduly harsh let me quote one or
two things I have seen. Possibly one
of the worst examples came from two
professional fishermen who were reported
four-days overdue during a week of
heavy sou’-easterly weather. After one
of the roughest trips I have known we
found them anchored in the lee of an
island. They were living on fish and
very tough damper, but otherwise quite
all right. When we asked them why
they hadn’t run for home during one of
the lulls in the blow they showed us some
brass straps over the planking where it
joined the stempost.
“The timber’s so rotten that nails or
screws won’t hold in it,” they explained.
“The straps are good enough to hold her
together in fine weather, but if we took
her out in this she’d bust wide open!”
In another instance three intrepid
mariners set out for a weekend on an
island nearly twenty miles off the coast.
Their boat was a crazy tittle under-
powered seventeen-footer with an open
cockpit. They made the outward cross-
ing in ideal weather, but late that night
it started to blow, and when they tried
to leave for home next day their boat
rolled so alarmingly and shipped so much
water that they hastily put back to the
island. By pumping and bailing furiously
they made it, and waited fof the help
they knew would come. Since no one
had thought of emergency rations they
had no food left. Fortunately help
arrived next day.
Ignorance! I once came across a
weekend fishing-party who had turned
in under the impression that they were
securely anchored for the night in the
lee of a point. A glance at the chart
they carried and a rough measurement
of their only anchor-rope would have
shown them that their anchor was
dangling 20ft, above the bottom!
Then there was the modern-minded
bloke who spoiled a perfectly good little
sailing-craft by ripping the mast and
rigging out of her and installing a car-
engine. “Sail’s out of date,” he de-
clared, Only when his engine cut-out
one blustering evening and left him adrift
in a sloppy sea for nearly 24 hours did
he realise that, even in this atomic age,
sails have their uses. As an auxiliary
power in case of engine failure or for
steadying small craft in a seaway they
are invaluable.
How can these accidents and the ex-
pensive searches they involve be avoided?
Only by amending and tightening-up the
regulations that allow a man with no
knowledge of the sea to take out a fish-
ing-licence and go anywhere in an obvi-
ously unseaworthy boat. A simple
adaptation of the present regulation
covering ply-for-hire boats and their
owners could be used for all private
owners. When Mr. X buys or builds a
boat he should have to apply for registra-
tion at the local Harbormaster’s office.
The Harbormaster would -survey the boat
and certify (if satisfied) that her hull was
seaworthy and her equipment sound and
efficient. Sound and efficient equipment
could be defined under the following
scale:
In a single-screw vessel, sails sufficient
to give ample steerage way in a ten-knot
breeze; a mast of a fixed or portable
nature, together with sufficient spars and
running rigging.
lifebelts, according to carrying-capacity
of vessel.
One approved anchor with 15 fathoms of
suitable line attached for vessels of less
than 30ft. overall length. Two such anchor-
aud-lines in all vessels over 30ft.
Two fire-extinguishers of a type approved
for putting out oil fires.
One set of navigation-lights.
In addition to engine-driven bilge-pump,
one approved hand-pump.
Approved flares or distress signals.
One sea-anchor.
The Harbormaster could then give
Mr. X a-short examination and certify
(if satisfied) that he considered Mr. X
had a sufficient knowledge of seaman-
ship to be competent to control and
manage the vessel. But before he could
go gaily off to sea Mr. X would still have
to submit himself and his engine to
examination by an authorised engineer,
who would Certify that the engine was
in good order and condition, of suitable
power, and that Mr. X was a fit person
to be in charge of it and competent to
carry out reasonable running-repairs.
More cumbersome regulations? More
interference with the liberty of the sub-
ject?
No one doubts the wisdom of the regu-
lation which says that a would-be solo
flyer must obtain a pilot’s licence and a
certificate of airworthiness for his plane.
Nor do they really believe that a person
should be permitted to drive a car in
traffic without first obtaining a certificate
of competency. Why, then, should the
private boat-owner be able to do as he
likes, not only with his but with other
people’s lives?
Remember that, though the missing
launch-owner has probably left home in
ideal weather, the searchers must be pre-
pared to hunt for him in a howling gale.
Conflict
I KAO no sooner set my foot
inside the place than a vulture
with ducoed hair descended on
me as I gazed around uncer-
tainly.
“You are wanting something?” he
said oilily,
“Yes,” I said foolishly.
He leaped into the breach, and
within a second was elbow-steering
me to a near-by pale-green, sleek-
looking limousine.
“Our new Waveline-model Sfor-
zando,” he said, sweeping his hand
towards it, “Just come off the ship.
Look,” he went on, his eyes shining
with admiration, “absolutely the
last word in streamlined luxurious-
ness, a veritable miniature palace
rolling on four rubber spheres.
Observe the Schnorkel-tube fitted into
the roof-groove. If you happen to
plunge into a river all you need do
is step on a floor-button and all
the windows automatically close and
the Schnorkel-tube rises into position,
allowing you to breathe under-
water. It also starts the air-washing
mechanism.
“Here,” he went on, indicating the
driver’s window, “is a valuable de-
vice exclusive to the Waveline Sfor-
zando—a cigarette-smoke deflector.
It works off the compressed-air, and
converts any smoke which happens
to drift into the back into fresh
air again. This model also has a
combined umbrella-stand and re-
versible spittoon at each end of the
back seat.”
He put his hand through the
window and pressed a switch on
the dashboard: immediately the
bonnet rose.
You see,” he went on, pointing
vaguely into the depths, “this revo-
lutionary departure from orthodox
automotive engineering makes an
enormous difference to the per-
formance of the year-condenser—it
is a hollow-snea' ed guffle-pin which
has a vibrating piaip. No lubrication
of it is necessary because all the
snerf-nuts have been ionised.
“Again,” he continued, “note the
new-type blad-shaft with the chuck-
bobber fitted to the gisser-flanges,
which ensure that the jerker-arm of
the frabble-strainer is always point-
ing to the magnetic-north. The
engine also has the advantage of
self-dynamising side-stroke valves,
juffled poppet-heads and a concave
slurk-box with a revolving gashal-
pipe. All gurver-plugs are radar-
controlled to eliminate piston-
stadging.”
“Very interesting,” I said, “but I
only want”
“Yes, yes,” he said, “but, if you’ll
pardon my saying so, as one married
man to another, it isn’t what you
want but what your wife wishes —
and what woman could resist this
door-to-door carpet in a superb
jacaranda design, the self-filling
Royal Doulton ‘welcome’-vases, the
powder-annexe, the bookcase con-
taining a concordance of the Scrip-
tures, Hoyle, Longfellow’s poems
and a volume on numismatics—in
short, reading for all tastes.
“There are also a combined tea-
infuser and boot-stretcher, a collaps-
ible piano-accordion, a loughboy
slung between the back-axle and the
Wubson bonk-wheel, an instrument
on the dashboard which registers all
changes in the driver’s temperature,
heart-beat and pulse every twenty
seconds, height above sea-level and
if you are getting low on cigar-
ettes.”
“She might,” I came back, “were
it not that this car has no modula-
tion-reverter on the driving-band of
the snag-spreader, nor is it fitted
with the latest Xorko drip-choke.
Why, it hasn’t even a hormone-dis-
sector on the thrapple-shaft!”
He stared at me, nonplussed.
“Also,” I went on quickly, “the
telescopic steering-column still has
the old-fashioned glump-weaver
oscillating from the downstroke-
bibble, and the drork - chamber
nipples aren’t even chubbilised.
Still, you can’t have everything, I
suppose.”
The final conciliatory note in my
voice seemed to buck him up, and
his morale obviously received an
even greater boost when I reached
into my inside coat-pocket and
pulled out a sheaf of papers, the top
one being my cheque-book.
“It is,” I said, turning again to
the car, “certainly a beautiful job. I
like it very much. In fact, I wouldn’t
go any further than this, if”
“Oh, we can arrange finance easily
enough,” he cut in eagerly.
I sorted out the papers and held
one up. “Oh, here it is,” I said.
“What I want is your service depart-
ment I want a half-inch by a
quarter bolt and nut for my front
number-plate. I’ve had it tied on
with a bit of string for weeks.”
They were still giving him sal-
volatile as I left.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 7, 1953
VoL 74—No, 3843
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
J. BULL: THE WAY AHEAD
Woomera, and the air race —two more highlights
in what for J. Bull and all his kin is already distinctly
marked as a notable, as it could be a most historic,
year. Taken day by day, over the whole field of
economic and political happenings and prospects, it is
not, of course, all sunshine and roses; with rising
competition abroad, for instance, as merely one factor,
J.B. is still far from being really clear of the woods
economically. But, spectacularly emphasised just
now by these current events, there is actual achieve-
ment of no minor sort to go on to the score, and above
that again—particularly in regard to J.B. himself —
there is, quite unmistakably, and most hearteningly
for all those who walk with him, a clear new spirit
abroad in the land.
Or perhaps not a new spirit. Rather a revived old
spirit—that which the dogged, perpetually rejuvenated
gentlemen had about him earlier; not only in the
war-time and his “finest hour” and all that but back
when he led the world with his ships on the seas —
with rivals in plenty, but none superior—as he now
leads it with his ships of the air.
The war, in its aftermath, actually seemed to have
changed all that. It was not enemies of Bull who
enforced that impression. Looking over his own Press
since the war anyone will find that it was in it, more
than anywhere else, that the notion of J.B. as a spent
and decadent being was most blackly propagated. Less
directly the impression was enforced by his outside
friends; there had never, for instance, been a time
when the American Press and, in fact, America gener-
ally, had been so kind and patronising towards the
same poor old fogy.
But it is, after all, J. Bull’s own Press which, if it
has a conscience, must feel that, in a tough time, it
might have served him better and could hardly have
served him worse. As recently as little more than a
year ago it needed a pretty diligent search to find one
note of hope, let alone optimism, in the whole mass
of British papers put together. Like any other Press,
J.B.’s no doubt can plead that it reflects rather than
shapes the life of the nation, and this defence could
be true enough in point of fact, too, since the same
reflection could be found by the searcher in other
expressions of the national life; in the low ebb of
British literature, on the one hand, and in utterances
in the British Parliament on the other.
Looking back now, the gloom-aftermath, which
appeared to have swallowed J.B. up for good and all,
seems to have reached its final flood of blackness as
last year ended. There was, it seems in this perspective,
a universal feeling of good-riddance, though that had
been the case with all year-closings since the war
ended, or even since it had started. A difference was
the equally noticeable revived feeling of hope with
which the pew year —this present year; since high-
lighted by great British events and achievements —was
greeted. At the start of it there were still carried-over
doubts; as the year has gone from one point of
spectacular note to another the doubts have more and
more diminished. Today they —the British themselves
and the rest as well —look on a miraculously changed
J. 8.; a strong, forward-looking, powerful fellow they
can proudly watch showing something at least of his
hand at places like Woomera and in the air above.
There is no question, by anybody, about J. Bull’s
positive achievement in either of these particular fields.
Despite the covering of secrecy over the one, he is
admitted to be out in front in the special-weapons
class in which Woomera is so much the successful
proving-ground that the name of the place itself has
taken on a new meaning, symbolic both of such things
as guided-missiles and of J.B. as their leading specialist.
In regard to the other field —the air—the same marvel-
lously revived J.B. is also admittedly out in front in
important respects, of both the spectacular and the
solid sort; in the records lately set up in a fashion to
capture the imagination of the world; and, on the
solid side, in air transport of the quality of the Comets
and Viscounts, right out on their own.
With the new or revived spirit which these things—
like such others of the year as the Coronation, and
Everest, and not overlooking the Test that must be
spelt with a capital—all go to highlight, there is no
question, either, about achievement being continued,
and bettered; that, via Woomera and the rest, J. Bull
will be found on call able, as always, to give a pretty
good account of himself; and that, via such accom-
plishments as those backgrounding this week’s air race,
he will maintain his place aloft as he held it on the
"UMM ... IT SMELLS DELICIOUS—COULD YOU GIVE ME THE RECIPE?"
seas. It suggests, too, something of what the future
may hold—for him, and for others besides.
Just as the dirgeful air has gone from the British
Press, the American Press and America are at least
not now so patronising as hitherto. It was America,
of course, which clamped down on exchange of secret
atomic and suchlike information with Britain ; now
Americans concede that J. Bull evidently has some-
thing they haven’t got themselves, and hence that their
former atomic head, Gordon Dean, may have uttered
prophecy as well as common sense when he said that a
“re-evaluation of the United States-United Kingdom
partnership is in order,” and especially in that parti-
cular field; Americans, said Mr. Dean, should “quit
kidding themselves” that they had a monopoly of such
knowledge.
Apart from that which could be a development of
the Woomera happenings, there are even more
important possibilities linking up with the air race, and
the air achievement of J.B. which this symbolises,
Back in the days somewhat before the gloom-
aftermath temporarily engulfed him, when he swarmed
over the seas (where he is still, of course, no light
force) as he now swarms in the air, J.B. had his sea-
bases and -ports all round the world. That sea-
frontage has shrunk considerably ; but it is only
necessary to make a map check-up of J. Bull and Co.
—of Britain itself and its Middle East, Mediterranean
and African holdings (east, west and north), across
and about Southern Asia up to Hong Kong, and down
to Australia and New Zealand, and thence across the
Pacific to Canada—it is only necessary to look at the
map in this way, and to think of distance shrunk as
the air achievements show it to have shrunk, to realise
how strong in its own defence and development this
RrJtiob rV.mmnnwealth ran hr facine im to all the
British commonwealth can DC, lacing up dll me
implications of this present Air Age.
It's Compulsory Unionism
Whether the “absolute” in Mr. Cahill’s absolute-
preference-to-unionists bill is to be taken in the
dictionary sense or is to be given some shade of mean-
ing peculiar to the measure is still being debated in
N. S. Wales “Labor” circles, but whatever faction wins
the squabble there is no doubt about the intention of
those who inspired the legislation.
Compulsory unionism has long been the aim of
f section of the trade-union movemen an i
that this section has lately been successful in g tt g
the ear of Mr. Cahill. It is common report, un e e
by the Premier, that in January this year w^ n
to launch his election campaign, he gave an under-
takmg that in return for the support of the industnsd
wing of the party he would introduce compulsory
unionism. . .
There was no mention of this in Mr. Camus
policy speech, but that is no matter tor surprise Ihe
votes of unionists and non-unionists are of equal value
on polling-day, and Mr. Cahill was asking the electors
of New South Wales to trust him for another three
vears. Nor did he mention it when, flushed with
victory, he gave thanks to the electors. His comment
V
men was • f , d
We stated oar policy in a frank, truthful ana
decent manner and the Australian public bas re-
sponded generously. Even in the hour of triumph I
ZwTCSnUrt *
. The new Parliament met for only one day last
March, and the sitting was devoted to formal business
only—with the exception of a discussion of the terms
of reference of the Doyle-Arthur Royal Commission—
so Mr. Cahill went off to London with his intentions
on compulsory unionism undisclosed. He was still
away coronating when his deputy, Mr. Heffron, told
the annual conference of his party on June 13 that
legislation for compulsory unionism would be brought
before the next sitting of Parliament. Mr. Heffron
gave the impression that the bill was almost ready.
Cabinet had been working on it “as late as last week
and hoped to complete the job next Tuesday.” Cabinet
didn’t finish the job “next Tuesday”; it was, in fact,
still working on it last Tuesday, approximately 10
weeks later.
By that time Mr. Cahill, back in harness again,
had presumably had time to digest, at least partially,
the report which Mr. Landa, Minister for Labor and
Industry, had been instructed to prepare on the work-
ing of compulsory unionism in Queensland; also to
consider the conflicting views of various factions
within the ranks of “Labor.” The party is far from
unanimous on the subject; the original Heffron
announcement was welcomed in some quarters as a
proclamation that the millennium was at hand, but
others felt that, although a sudden accretion of new
members might be a grand idea from a financial view-
point, this advantage would be outweighed by the
voting-power of the conscripted members.
When Mr. Cahill broke silence last week his
statement showed signs of this conflict; compulsory
unionism had become “absolute preference to
unionists.” Cabinet had approved of it, but appar-
ently hadn’t worked out exactly what it meant. Said
Mr. Cahill;
We have all the details of how this is to be
carried out, but we haven't gone into them fully.
There are certain clauses in the bill not yet decided,
including those covering reUgions objectors -and re-
turned soldiers.
The rights of several hundred thousand ex-
servicemen were seemingly one of the “details” which
hadn’t been gone into fully. Nevertheless Mr. Cahill
was prepared to say that the bill would give absolute
preference to financial union members, and that it
would be brought down before Christmas.
Despite the attempt to change its name by Parlia-
mentary deed-poll, absolute preference, if enforced,
can only mean compulsory unionism for all whose
work brings them under N. S. Wales awards.
This is the very negation of democracy, of
freedom of action and thought, and of all those things
for which men of independent mind have at all times
stood. It is a paradox that it should be introduced by
those who claim to be the successors of the men who
fought for the right of the individual to choose his own
place and mode of employment. If “absolute prefer-
ence” is an attempt to get round the clauses of the
Declaration of Human Rights which proclaim “equal
pay for equal work,” “equality before the law,” and
that “no one may be compelled to belong to an associa-
tion,” then Mr. Cahill had better come right out into
the open and say that his party doesn’t believe in the
Declaration, although its Federal leader was one of its
framers.
To the people of N.S.W. the position is that the
man who nine months ago told them his policy “in a
frank, truthful and decent manner” is now about to
impose on them a vitally important piece of legisla-
tion of which no hint was contained in his policy
speech. This is the reward he offers for their
“magnificent trust.” There was once a confidence
trickster called Doyle ...


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Price of Uranium
One of the silliest notions regarding Aus-
tralian defence is the assumption that
editors make the best generals. Anyone,
looking back, might well wonder how
many Australian lives were lost through
the bustling by the Press of a spineless
“Labor” Government into consenting to
the futile Kokoda Trail-Buna operations
in 1942, when a few Japanese virtually
without resources pushed their way across
the Owen Stanley Range.
The- same atmosphere now prevails
regarding atomic matters and northern
defence. “Labor” in Parliament, backed
by newspapers which should know better,
is carrying on a campaign to force out
of the Government a statement on the
price which it is being paid for uranium.
If the entrepreneurs of this propaganda
were to follow it back to its origins they
would find that the Communist party
had been thirsting for information and
still is, and so had laid the foundations
for the theory that Australia is being
cheated by her imperialistic allies.
In view of the fact that atomic defence
is dependent on the know-how of the
British and Americans, both as to bombs,
weapons and machines that carry them, it
would not be too dear a price to pay as
our share if we gave our allies our
uranium, though nobody has ever sug-
gested that that should be done. But
that is beside the point that the Govern-
ment has given assurances —of which a
six-year-old schoolboy could understand
the validity—that to expose the price
which we are being paid, even per unit,
would give the enemy information for
which he is burning and which all his
local agencies of treason are exerting
themselves diligently to obtain.
Combined with the campaign to secure
atomic information is another to en-
gender public lack of confidence in the
whole defence programme. Communists
and certain sections of “Labor” and the
Press are all eager to flog the thesis that
the North has been left completely un-
defended. What is known to everybody
about the rocket-range and developments
in aircraft and the R.A.A.F. are a com-
plete answer to this nonsense. Defence
in these days of the air is always sited
far from the focal point. The complaints
which were valid in 1941 have long
ceased to have any validity.
Criticism, backed by knowledge, is
always a useful spur to effective defence,
but criticism which begins in the Com-
munist Press and reaches its zenith in the
Sydney papers and Parliament is another
matter.
As far back as October 8, 1952, the
Communist party’s official correspondent
in Canberra was insinuating that “the
uranium sell-out is moving a stage further
... .the agreement is a close secret —the
Americans are elated—a great deal for
the United States, but it’s a rigged deck-
deal for Australia.” This sinister sugges-
tion was linked with an alleged anxiety
about secret clauses in the Anzus Pact
to limit Australian civil liberty, the
removal of the “pig-iron” ban, the poi-
sonous atomic clouds drifting from U.S.
islands off our coast, and the failure of
the Menzies Government to defend the
North while at the same time acting as
aggressive warmongers, arming them-
selves to the teeth to prevent the innocent
and peace-loving Indonesians from right-
fully occupying West New Guinea and
to attack peace-loving Soviet Russia. A
little inconsistency never worries the
Communists.
The allegations about the misuse of
National Service trainees’ time in camp
has been chronic pabulurii for Communist
propaganda since the year one. And it
is amusing to hear anti-Communists like
Mr. Keon, M.H.R., solemnly repeating
such stuff in Parliament.
Cahill's Sorry Plight
The N. S. Wales Auditor-General’s re-
port provides another comment on the
character of the N. S. Wales Government.
Even the administration of Mr. Theodore
was not in its class —not even in the year
of Mungana. It is doubtful if anything
to approach it has ruled —and been
allowed by the people to continue to rule
—in an English-speaking country outside
Louisiana in the days of “Kingfish” Huie
Long.
A Liquor Commission, which seems
eternal, disclosed dreadful conditions of
impropriety in this State Government’s
administration of the social laws last
year. Sections of the Press for years
have been trying to obtain information
about its wholesale releases of habitual
criminals before their time, but cannot
get it.
It fills high offices in the State with
blatantly unsuitable politicians without
experience of the matters they are
intended to control. Mr. McGirr, its last
Premier, went into the Harbor Board;
Mr. J. A. Ferguson was elevated in a
few years from the job of agitator to a
railway union to the control, as chair-
man of the Milk Board, of the milk-
supply of Sydney. Others could be
quoted.
Opportunity to criticise these and other
proceedings in Parliament is stifled by a
use of procedure utterly at variance with
all normal conceptions of Parliamentary
government.
Since the last election one Minister has
left the Government and Parliament—
the Government defended him to the
last—after a judicial inquiry had shown
that he had been on friendly terms with
a convicted criminal with whom he had
“You’re Wrong, Delaney,” by Bant
Singer, strikes a new note in serials
and in Australian writing—a crime
and detection story that is different,
it begins in “The Bulletin” next week.
had transactions of such a nature and
carried on in such a manner as to be
compatible.only with intimate friendship.
The friend is in jail for a long term,
bankrupt, convicted of fraud and other
crimes. This jailbird’s intimacy with the
Minister allowed him to become a
habitue of Parliament House and make
use of Ministerial and other rooms—
without the owners’ consent, it appears.
While the inquiry into this association
was taking place the Premier, showing no
care for the reputation of the Ministry,
gaily toured Europe.
Since then it has come out at an inquiry
that another criminal, only a few years
ago in the care of the Government in
Long Bay for assault and robbery, was
given large contracts for building in a
department controlled by the Deputy-
Premier. And one witness has sworn
that he met him drinking at Parliament
House a number of times. Nobody has
yet explored this evidence further.
The Auditor-General’s report this year
adds fuel to the criticism. He mentions
“grave irregularities” in the accounts of
the States Mines Control Authority,
especially concerning the Liddell and
Oakdale coalmines, which “involve a
large amount of public funds” and which
the police are investigating. The over-
lord of this department under the unfor-
tunate Mr. Arthur used to be Mr.
Baddeley,
The A.-G. says the financial position
and prospects of the tram- and omnibus-
services are “deplorable” deficit
£3,597,077, or almost 24 per cent, of earn-
ings. The Housing Commission comes
out with a deficiency of £261,863, and it
had to cancel one contract for 1600
houses let to a German who went bank-
rupt before he could carry it out.
The Railways Department comes out
short for the year by £1,449,839. And,
of course, the Sydney ferries finished up
more heavily in the red than they ever
were x under private management —in
spite of the fact that boats have become
like coal-barges, suburban wharves a dis-
grace and timetables catch-as-catch-can.
And all this despite the fact that, in
an effort to economise, the State Gov-
ernment —while its Federal leader has
been girding loudly at the Federal
Government for producing unemploy-
ment —has been sacking men by the hun-
dred. Nearly 1500 went from the tram-
and bus-services and 7976 from the rail-
ways, some of these certainly transferred
to other State enterprises.
It seems time Mr. Cahill asked for a
vote of confidence —from the electors.
Now It's Eggs
If any more was needed to demonstrate
that the final result of board-control of
commodities is high prices and scarcities
it arrived in Sydney aboard a big road-
freighter from Victoria.
This time it was eggs. Sydney “Sun,”
which keeps a close watch on food-prices,
reported that Victorian eggs were being
sold in Sydney at ss. l|d. a dozen, against
ss. 6d. a dozen for N.S.W. eggs. Further,
the Victorian eggs were being carted by
road from Werribee (between Melbourne
and Geelong), which meant that Victorian
and N.S.W. road-taxes and -fees would
have to be added to the freight.
Eggs are board-controlled in both
States. No hen can lay an egg for sale
to the public in either State without a
permit, nobody can sell Victorian eggs
in Victoria without a permit, nobody can
sell N.S.W. eggs in N.S.W. without a
permit; in both instances the price is
that dictated by the respective board.
But, because of Section 92 of the Com-
monwealth Constitution, which provides
for free trade between the States, no State
can stop the entry and sale of goods from
another State, That’s one reason why no
lottery-State can bar the sales of lottery-
tickets from a competing State.
So Carter Bros., who run probably the
biggest poultry-farm in the Southern
Hemisphere and not so long ago told the
Victorian Egg Board they’d destroy their
thousands of fowls rather than accept
board dictation as to how they’d run
their business, were able to put their
eggs in “about 60 Sydney shops” for sale
at a dozen cheaper than N.S.W
eggs.
When she heard about it Mrs. Lawson,
secretary of the Housewives’ Association,
said it was “shameful that eggs could be
brought all that way by expensive road-
transport and still be cheaper than local
eggs” and that “N.S.W. Egg Board was
either inefficient or costing too much.”
She should have said all egg boards.
Japan's Defence
Japanese Premier Shigeru Yoshida has
announced that Japan will have a defence
force of 250,000 men —a force which
would be armed, inter alia, with jet air-
craft and aircraft-carriers. This is not
nearly equal to her pre-war nucleus-army
of 17 divisions, and there is no word of
conscription yet. It needs only conscrip-
tion to place her on a former basis of
strength, along with building-up of her
heavy industries to the old level.
It was inevitable that this should hap-
pen ; and if it hadn’t, Japan, in world
war, would have been either perforce on
the side of Russia or overrun by Russia,
and her labor potential, which is enor-
mous, applied to Communist needs.
The 1951 Peace Treaty left Japan free
to arm for defence because it had to.
It is impossible for ever to keep a nation
of 80,000,000 with the pride of 2600 years
of history behind it defenceless and en-
slaved to conquerors. Whether the world
likes it or not, and particularly whether
Australia likes it or not, this is the situa-
tion, and we must make the best of it,
and try to produce friendly relations and
a policy of live-and-let-live and see to
our own security by expansion of popula-
tion and resources.
The British and Canadians are going
out of their way to promote good rela-
tions with Japan—the United Kingdom
Embassy is the most influential by a long
chalk in Tokio, American capital invest-
ments notwithstanding, because it has in
Sir Esler Dening (who, incidentally,
served in World War I with the A.1.F.)
an emissary who is the leading expert on
Manchuria among Europeans in the Far
East and who was born in Tokio, and has
also a public-relations counsellor in Mr.
Vere Redman, who has been so long in
Japan that he is one of the family.
Dr. Evatt’s lectures at this juncture and
the statement of the president of the N. S.
Wales branch of the Returned Soldiers’
League that the League is against “per-
mitting Japan to rearm to the point where
it could again threaten aggression” are
out of touch with realism, in the
face of the fact that Japan now has
the right to rearm. It is not only the
right, but the duty, of every free
country to defend itself, and under the
treaty Japan is in exactly the same posi-
tion as any other free country. With
Russia next door and the Korean war
and Communist China on the doorstep,
any Japanese Government which did not
show anxiety about effective defence
wouldn’t live a week.
Threat in Queensland
Vigorous opposition of Queensland pub-
lishing industry—unions and all —to the
Printers and Newspapers’ Bill which the
Gair Government is pushing through
Brisbane Parliament is not, as many
Queenslanders may suppose, merely
another of those “newspaper squabbles.”
It is something which personally affects
every Queenslander. There are provi-
sions in the bill which, if not amended,
give powers to the Government far be-
yond any possessed by any Australian
Government to harass and suppress any
kind of publication.
Enough of the bill and the Parlia-
mentary debate has been published to
make quite clear what is proposed.
The second-reading speech of Attorney-
General Power contained several appeals
to Press, printers and people to “trust”
the Government, not to see danger where
it doesn’t exist, and in particular not to
be misled by the “Courier-Mail.”
Despite those appeals, nobody could
fairly analyse both the bill and his speech
without being alarmed.
In one single aspect alone the bill is
an affront to the whole basis of British
justice, for the Minister can seize a
printing-plant and then call on the
printer to prove that he has not com-
mitted an offence. This is a direct nega-
tion of the cherished principle that a
man is presumed innocent until proved
guilty.
A bill providing that a Minister can
seize a printing-plant merely on a J.P.’s
warrant is reason enough for vigorous
opposition. There is another provision
that the owner of a plant must notify any
change of address of the “operator” of
the plant. This shows to what lengths
the proposed powers go.
Whatever its faults or shortcomings,
the Queensland publishing industry
generally stands as a guardian of the
people’s rights and liberties and keeps
the light of publicity on all matters con-
cerning the people. A Government which
proposes to arrogate power to itself to
suppress a publication by the means pro-
posed in this bill has no place in
Australia.
Warragamba
The site of the Warragamba Dam, about
45 miles from Sydney, has been a scenic
attraction ever since the work opened
it up to motor traffic. In the magnificent
gorge which the Warragamba cut for
itself to get through the mountain-wall
between the Burragorang and Nepean
valleys, it is best approached -from
Penrith along about 10 miles of one of
the most beautiful river valleys in Aus-
tralia, the road flanking the Nepean all
the way, with the sheer wall of the Blue
Mountains just beyond the river.
Travellers along that road, and along
the main western road and railway from
Sydney, have become familiar with the
metal towers and wires of what most
of them assumed to be a high-tension
electric power-line. It is, in fact, an over-
head ropeway running from McCann’s
Island, in the Nepean, some 12y miles
along the base of the mountains, climb-
ing hills and spanning gullies before
leaping the Nepean River and ending at
the great concrete-mixers on the dam-site.
Along that ropeway, moving at a
steady 5 m.p.h., will travel hanging steel
buckets hooked to the line at intervals
of roughly 50 to 80 yards, each carrying
27|cwt. of sand or gravel from the supply-
base at McCann’s Island and delivering
it to the concrete-mixer at 170 tons an
hour.
It is, of course, simply the old “flying-
fox” method of getting goods or pas-
sengers from one place to another oyer
ravines and rapids, with modern material
and power applied. Its advantages over
road- or rail-haulage of the vast quanti-
ties of aggregate needed for a dam wall
such as Warragamba, which is designed
to hold sufficient water for the 2,500,000
people expected to live in and around
Sydney by 1965, and will be 400 ft. high
with a comparable width of base, are
obvious, both from the time angle and the
cost factor.
Ice in the concrete is a result of experi-
ence overseas with other big concrete
dams and heavy-concrete constructions.
In time these structures showed faults
which were at first puzzling, and were
recently accepted as due to the concrete
mixture heating-up when built and sub-
sequently contracting as it cooled off. At
Warragamba an ice-making plant will
deliver shredded ice to the concrete mix,
which will prevent expansion through heat
and free the mixture from danger of later
contraction.
The ice and the ropeway are but two
of the many engineering achievements
Sydney Water Board has performed in
constructing a dam calculated to put a
great city beyond fear of drought for at
least a generation,
Bevan the Peacemaker
From London : The Commonwealth
correspondents had a special reason for
inviting Mr. Aneurin Bevan to lunch with
them on the eve of the Labor-party con-
ference ; they expected him to prime a
fuse that would start a chain reaction
for a grand explosion at the Margate
conference, Mr. Bevan, however, sedu-
lously avoided giving even a hint of a
hint as to his line of action.
Instead, he chided the Tories for their
unchangeableness and lack of news-value,
declared that their stock was declining
while Labor’s was rising, reaffirmed that
any Left party, by its very vigor, always
appears to present disunity, denied the
existence of any conflict between the
political and industrial sides, and em-
phatically asserted that differences of
opinion will not be permitted to divide
{Continued on next page)


the Labor party, whose government alone
can save the country from war.
He then turned to foreign affairs,
making these main points:
(1) The Chiefs-of-Staff were wrong in
1951— as indeed he told them at the time
to fix 1953 as the danger year.
(2) All is not well within the T7.5.5.K.;
but because of her Internal weakness she
(i.e., per Vyshinsky) is shouting louder.
(3) America, if she retains her pre-
occupation with Russian ideological issues,
will be more responsible for war than the
Soviet. . m .
(4) The reactionary forces in Western
Germany, including some of Dr. Aden-
auer’s followers, are a menace to peace.
(5) The course for Britain is not neu-
trality (“that can never be”) but a “middle
position” (i.e., isolation).
What does he mean? Not, perhaps,
entirely what he says. These points are
constituents of a new formula, Labor’s
“growing independence of opinion in
foreign affairs,” which promises to be a
smokescreen for covering the internal
cleavages, now beyond repair, and put-
ting up another show of solidarity. Mr.
Bevan has evidently seen the red light.
He has gone too far with his fratricidal
attacks, and must now strive to establish
private non-belligerency, if not peace.
And, with a general election possible next
year, Labor must find a scapegoat.
Churchill’s alleged “warmongering”
won’t wash. Tory-baiting has lost its
edge. What more suitable than neo-
Nazis on the one side and American
domination on the other? And, to save
trouble from the Left, the playing-down
of Soviet military potential?
A bogyman, it seems, is as essential
to militant Socialism as the Devil is to
a hot-gospeller. But what an odd and
alien figure is this one, with its jack-
boots and ten-gallon, hat!
POLITICAL POINTS
They now pay for tay on Ay Bay Cay.
• •
Federal Parliament goes into a short
recess on October 23 and will meet again
on November 10 for an official opening
by the Governor-General. Chief subject
for debate between then and the Christ-
mas recess will be Earle Page’s National
Health bill.
• •
N. S. Wales Country-party leader
Bruxner’s definition of a State lottery:
Taxation finder anaesthetic.
• ©
A coursing hare has to be pretty agile
to dodge a greyhound, but even the
best of ’em couldn’t hold a candle to the
N. S. Wales “Labor” caucus in the matter
of agility. Twelve months ago caucus
decided to ban live-hare coursing, and
just before Parliament reopened a bill was
prepared for submission to Cabinet.
Then caucus had second-thoughts and
rescinded its recommendation. That was
three weeks ago. Last week caucus had
a third bite at the cherry and re-
recommended the ban.
Liberal-leader Treatt, who had already
given notice of a motion recommending
a ban, commented “The tortoise Govern-
ment has at last caught up with the
coursing hare,”
• •
Mr. Cain and Mr. Galbally, one of his
Ministers, are in disagreement over
whether the Victorian Government should
“keep on punching wowsers on the nose
over lottery and liquor reforms.” Gal-
bally told a Chamber of Commerce meet-
ing that it should ; Cain, challenged by
churchmen, said that Galbally was not
speaking for the Government, nor was he
expressing the Government’s views. This
presumably means that the Government
is going to stop beating its wife.
• •
Tasmania’s Government has been told
by a British railway expert that it should
give away country passenger-trains. He
says it could save over £600,000 a year
by running road-buses instead of trains.
This plainly suggests that before long
State Governments will be amending
their transport regulations to stop private
persons running trains in competition
with Government road-vehicles.
• •
Commerce Minister McEwen seems to
think Australia has been saved from total
collapse because the four wheat-exporting
States have agreed to pool their export
wheat. All that this means is that the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board continues to take
possession of and to market export wheat
and that growers will be bound by Inter-
national Wheat Agreement prices and
quotas, of which the United Kingdom,
Australia’s best overseas customer for
wheat, won’t have a bar. It seems a
strange way of saving Australia.
• •
N. S. Wales Prices Minister Landa
says that if price-control is lifted off hides
the people of N. S. Wales will have to
pay an extra £2,400,000 a year for their
shoes. Country-party leader Bruxner says
if it’s not lifted they’ll be wearing wooden
clogs.
• •
Kahibah by-election looks like being a
more interesting contest than was at first
expected. The “Labor” preselection
ballot was won by J. G. Arthur senior,
father of the J. G. Arthur whose resigna-
tion after the Doyle commission caused
the vacancy. There were ten candidates
in the ballot and Arthur won by six
votes on the final count. He thereupon
announced that his aim would be to see
that old-age pensioners and widows “get
a better cut than they do now.” It is
to be hoped that someone tells him before
the election that Kahibah is a State, not
a Federal, seat.
H. D. Quinlan, former Lord Mayor
of Newcastle, won the Liberal nomina-
tion, whereupon I. Alexander, one of the
defeated aspirants, resigned from the
Liberal party and announced his inten-
tion of running as an Independent Labor
candidate. Alderman T. Armstrong may
also stand as an Independent, and it is
possible that there will be a “break-
away” Labor starter,
• •
For the other N. S. Wales by-election,
Waverley, the Liberals have selected Ben
Doig, of the Sane Democracy League.
“Labor’s” choice will be made next Satur-
day ; Ferguson, M.L.C., likes his chances
so well that he has resigned his Council
seat to contest the pre-selection ballot.
• •
Under Stalin it used to take Russia one
word to say “No”; under Malenkov it
takes 2500 to say “May be.”
• •
Cain’s entertainments tax looked like
striking a snag when Hollway threatened
to have his henchmen in the Council vote
against it unless Cain agreed to postpone
discussion for a week while he sounded
out the Federal Government on Victoria’s
position in regard to reimbursements
from that quarter. Cain refused, there
were further threats and rumors of
threats and —the Hollway men voted with
the Government and passed the bill.
• •
Tasmania looks like haying an election
before Christmas, though it isn’t likely
to give the Speck a Parliament much less
deadlocked than the present one. Last
ONE OF THE ALSO-RAN
election, in May, 1950, gave Cosgrove’s
“Labor” party 15 seats, Townley’s
Liberals 14. The other seat went to the
Independent Wedd, who, after the
appointment of a Speaker had made party
strengths equal, held the balance of
power. That election was the third in
little more than three years, and no one
felt very much like a fourth, so the
Cosgrove Government has more or less
coasted along since then, taking care not
to introduce bills which would force
Wedd to vote against them.
Last Thursday Wedd ended this state
of affairs in a most unusual manner. He
challenged Opposition-leader Townley to
move that he (Wedd) should resign,
promising that he would then do so in
order to bring about an election. The
significance of this was that under the
Tasmanian system of proportional-rep-
resentation, Wedd’s resignation would
mean a recount of his preferences at the
1950 poll, which would almost certainly
give the Libs, another seat, thus creating
a deadlock.
Townley accepted the challenge, but
at the request of Cosgrove Wedd agreed
to postpone his resignation until after the
Estimates had been passed—which prob-
ably means a fortnight.
• •
N.S.W. Lands Minister Hawkins has
boldly told newspaper readers that “Aus-
tralia should press on, with the utmost
speed, with the expansion of resident
rural settlement, based on adequate
family living-areas.” His own Govern-
ment is setting a fine example. How
many returned soldiers did it settle on
the land in the past year? I
• • *
Evatt’s first public comment on re-
ported wranglings in caucus gave the
impression that he regarded it all as'
healthy, friendly discussion which was
all for the good of the party. His later
statement, to say the least, reveals doubts.
If “disclosures of portions of party meet-
ings involve great disloyalty to the party,”
they also make the Doc.’s picture of the
friendly-family argument look a trifle
unreal.
Still, Bert finishes on a happy note:
Dissent does not signifiy dissension or
disruption. Opinions freely expressed are
the very life of the party. The party is
solid and determined.
Solid behind whom? Determined upon
what? Those appear to be the main
points of argument.
• •
“Rocky”: If Frank Forde wants the
“Labor” nomination for Capricornia
someone will have to persuade Alderman
Gardner to change his mind. A two-war
Digger and former campaign-director for
Forde, he is at present “Labor’s” en-
dorsed candidate, and says he has no
intention of standing down. His nomina-
tion for mayor of Rockhampton appar-
ently started the rumor, but he has been
prompt in denying it.
• •
Premier Cahill in answer to suggestions
that there might be further delays in
enacting the ban on live-hare coursing:
We have a number of important bills
ahead o.f us, and this will take its place.
The Government cannot be pinned down
on times.
His Government can’t be pinned down
on anything.
• •
The Doc. seems to be off the beam on
the subject of compulsory unionism. He
told the Reps, he thought Cahill’s legis-
lation would be welcomed “by 98 to 99
per cent, of workers in N. v S. Wales and
by most employers.” Quite apart from
what non-unionists think of it, many of
the big unions aren’t at all keen on the
proposal and most employer-organisa-
tions are dead against it.
• o
A.W.U. secretary Dougherty says that
in Queensland compulsory unionism has
brought industrial peace “by eliminating
stoppages over disputes between unionists
and non-unionists.” He omitted to
mention that such disputes had invariably
arisen through unions trying to enforce
piecemeal the monopoly they later per-
suaded the Queensland “Labor” Govern-
ment to make theirs by law. He also con-
veniently overlooked that even member-
ship of a union has not always meant
peace and amity among workers, “Body-
snatching” between unions is not at all
uncommon, as his own union knows from
experience. It is not always sufficient to
belong to a union; it has to be the right
union.
• •
At the British Labor-party conference
someone proposed that the banks be
nationalised next time a Labor Govern-
ment is returned to power. Conference'
gave a shudder and quickly rejected the
motion, delegates probably realising that
if they passed it they’d never be returned
to power.
• •
Professor Bland’s Public Accounts
Committee seems to have started some-
thing. Opposition-leader Treatt is Urging
the Cahill Government to set up a similar
committee, and Liberal-leader Hiley
wants one for Queensland, too. Cahill,
in particular, will find it hard to argue
against the value of the suggestion.-
• •
A deputation from the “North Aus-
tralian Rehabilitation Committee” has
asked Canberra to consider granting tax
concessions to people living north of the
26th parallel in Westralia and the
Northern Territory and in parts of
Queensland not yet specified. The com-
mittee claims that the difference between
this plan and a tax-free scheme applied
earlier in the Territory is that only bona
fide residents would be eligible. The
hope of the scheme’s sponsors is that it
would encourage settlement of the north.
• •
Reporting to N.S.W. Parliament on the
shocking Government-transport losses,
Auditor-General Campbell said that in a
four-hour check on one day 549 bus-
and tram-passengers evaded paying a
fare. There promptly arose a howl from
the bus- and tram-unions, declaring that
conductors couldn’t collect all the fares in
peak hours. Perhaps not, but there’s a
general feeling that they could make a
better try.
• •
Albert Monk told the A.C.T.U. that it
should not adopt a policy of short-range
expediency. Right enough, but why
change its policy after all these years?
• •
Forgan Smith on two occasions helped
to prevent Federal Labor from selling out
to the extreme Leftist element. He was
one of the moving spirits in the rejec-
tion of the Communist-type platform
nearly foisted on the Federal party after
the Socialisation Conference of 1921.
And it was due entirely to his forceful
action that at the beginning of World
War II the Federal party did not sur-
render itself into the arms of the Red
element which had taken control of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P. and of most of the
key industrial unions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Taswegian”: Can you imagine a
design-engineer worthy ,of the name
making an engine which (1) has no indi-
cator to show the quantity of fuel in the
tank ; (2) has no proper provision for the
disposal of its waste products ; (3) has no
safety-valve for the dispersal of harmful
internal pressure; (4) has, instead of a
permanent, adjacent fuel-supply, a mobile
one which has to perform other duties
that may interfere with the timely de-
livery of the fuel to the engine; (5) is
built (in these days of stainless, rustless,
non-corrosive metals) of a material need-
ing daily cleansing; (6) has to be
“run-in” so gradually that it cannot be
used at full power or run at profit for
some years? Of course you can’t. Then
I hope you don’t deliver any of the guff
I’ve been hearing ever since my son was
born four weeks ago about what wonder-
ful things babies are.
+> <£♦ Hjf
“Jasby”: Adulation of the Kelly gang
(B. 30/9/’53) isn’t confined to Australia ;
the youngsters of Quid Oireland are
having Ned held up to them as a hero
who fought against corruption and whose
name has become “a warning to tyrants
wherever they may be.” In the May
issue of the “Junior Digest,” published in
Dublin, an article entitled “Australia’s
Robin Hood” tells a glamorised story of
the Kellys. Ned, it appears, was a victim
of the 1851 gold-rush which “left
thousands homeless and starving.” With
only two alternatives, “death or emigra-
tion,” the Kellys, in true Irish style, chose
neither, but “turned their guns against the
law, preferring to die on their feet rather
than Jive on their knees.” But they
didn’t rob lonely homesteads; they
merely “held up banks and police-stations
at pistol-point and then rode away sing-
ing with their saddle-bags filled with
gold.” Of the final stand at' Glenrowan
the chronicler describes the attempt to
wreck the police train and continues;
“Unfortunately, a schoolmaster named
Cumow had seen them,” and was able to
stop the train before it was derailed.
There’s no mention of the hanging of
Ned ; the impression is given that he died
fighting. But—
his lonely battle, however, had not been
in vain. For he aroused the Government
to undertake much-needed reforms to help
the people. And by his deathless courage
he inspired Australia to become the most
progressive country in the world.
Hooroo for Ned!
❖ ❖
“D.L.A.”; A descendant of the Rev.
Samuel Marsden was recently married in
St. John’s, Parramatta (N.S.W.), of which
church the Rev. Samuel was first rector.
But I feel the local paper could have
headlined its account of the wedding
more tactfully. The item was titled;
“Bride Is Link with ‘Flogging Parson.’ ”
“Sops”: It had been a heavy day at
the office. The little woman lovingly
bent over me, undoing my shoe-laces. As
she placed my carpet-slippers on my feet
she groaned and said “That’s another
stocking I’ve laddered—the second pair
this week.” I motioned to my cigarettes
lying at the other end of the room, and
as she walked over for them I said “Why
do you wear them? Needless expense,
nothing else.” She tossed me my
cigarettes, and, with a flash of temper,
"I thought it might help , dear , if I gave you a list of vegies that
Morry cant stand.”
replied “What about you and the money
you spend on cigarettes?” Then she let
me have it: “When you smoke cigarettes,
that act gives satisfaction to you, and to
you only. When I wear silk stockings I
give satisfaction to countless thousands! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mullum”: Can’t understand how
“Sister Ellell” (B. 16/9/’53) was “laid low
by airsickness.” I’ve known seasickness
to last several days after disembarkation,
but I’ve never seen airsickness, either in
myself or others, which persisted for
more than an hour after landing. Rough
flying weather does strange things to an
aircraft, but the motions could- never be
described as regular. Once the victim’s
feet touch the ground he is not worried
by any continued reflex-action.
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Bamekaw”: Revisited the circus after
a lapse of years. The lions, elephants and
ladies on horseback were all familiar;
gallantly excepting the ladies, they might
even have been the same stars I saw as a
boy. But one notable figure had disap-
peared. The ringmaster with his magni-
ficent trappings was no longer there.
Instead, a detached voice oh the public-
address system introduced the acts, and
kept us informed of what was going on.
It didn’t seem the same to me. Once or
twice when the applause flagged I am
sure the old-time sawdust M.C. could
have egged it on, and how in the name
of P. T. Barnum can a voice over the
amplifier play up as the clown’s stooge?
* * *
“Ceg”: The way people drool about
jugged hare led me to imagine that the
gift of a hare would be welcomed by
most folk, I know different now. A
farmer friend, about to burn-off a stubble
paddock, invited me out to have a pot at
the hares. We bagged 13, tossed them into
the car, and I prepared to play Santa
Claus. First friend I called on —one of
the droolers —took one, but with no great
enthusiasm; rather he gave the impres-
sion that he was bestowing a favor. After
driving all round the town, I was still
left with 12. All sorts of excuses
were made for refusing the gift!
It was getting late, so I picked
out two of the biggest, dumped
them at the door of my cobber thq bank-
manager, rang the bell and drove off.
The rest, to my great relief, were accepted
by the matron of the Old People’s Home.
Later in the week, I met the banker. He
was in a most ungrateful humor, as he
described how it had taken him half an
hour to dig a grave in the stony ground
of his backyard. Sorry, sir, the jugged
hare’s off.
t ❖ * *
“Contact”: “Spasebo” (B. 29/8/’53) is
a little confusing when he writes of the
Japanese grog-taster “committing kami-
kaze.” The word most suited to this text
is harakiri, which describes the Japanese
method of suicide by self-disembowel-
ment. Taken from hara, “stomach” and
kiri, “madness,” it is a particularly apt
way to describe first sampling of the new
home-brew. Kamikaze, although applied
to the Japanese suicide-pilots of the last
war, does not mean suicide. Taken from
kami, “god,” and kaze, “wind,” it was
first used to describe file typhoon which,
about 1500 years ago, sank all ships of
the Mongolian fleet attacking southern
Japan. The term has come to mean a
last hope of rescue, and was applied to
the suicide-pilots, who appeared to be
Japan’s last hope of stopping the vic-
torious Allied fleet.
“Gianna”: Our “housemaid” is an ex-
officer of the Russian Army; tall and
elegantly-mannered, he was originally a
major in the Slav forces. When Russia
“liberated” his country in ’45, he was
transferred to the Red Armies in the
Ukraine. Escaping to an internment
camp in Germany, he was accepted as a
New Australian migrant, and worked at
a Government factory in Footscray (Vic.).
Now he lives in a tiny room in our house,
concentrates on domestic duties until
lunch-time, makes lampshades in the
afternoon and studies photography at
night. The house shines with cleanliness,
and our manners improve daily, so darn-
ing the “housemaid’s” socks is no real
hardship.
* ♦> ❖
“Twin Sylvie”: As one of the many
enjoying On Our Selection, there’s one
thing I can’t figure out. Who is “I”?
Obviously the narrator is one of the
family, but which one? None of the
others ever appears to address him.
❖ +> ❖
“Narumee”: The cover-picture of
Warkworth Castle, Northumberland (B.
9/9/’53) brings to mind the puzzling and
inconsistent pronunciation of the name.
Geordies say “Waarkworth” just as they
say “barl” for “ball” and “farl” for
“fall,” but in every other part of the
country the beautiful ruin is referred to
as “Waw-kworth.” But castles, like
prophets, are without honor in their own
countries. I remember one grizzled
Warkworthian remarking that he couldn’t
see for why busloads of tourists came
all the way from Sunderland and Middles-
brough to see “they farlin’ doon owld
ruins” when they could’ve been watching
footbarl!
* ❖ ♦
“Spicula”: Doc. still remembers one
of the notices posted in his quarters when
he was doing his first year’s residency in
a public hospital after getting his degrees;
It should be unnecessary to remind
interns and residents not to smoke when on
duty, not to laugh loudly and cut up with
the nurses where patients may hear the
squeal, and to avoid all those things which
do not become professional gentlemen.
♦> ' *
“M’Lou”: Tortuous Chinese logic was
never better illustrated than in Hamilton
Fyfe’s story of a report received from
Peking by the “Daily Mail” during a civil
war to the effect that all British, Ameri-
can and European residents had been
massacred. The report was quite untrue,
and it came out in the subsequent investi-
gation that the Chinese Government itself
had given the story to the “Mail’s”
correspondent. The foreign residents,
fearing attack on the city, had all
gathered in the Legation quarter, and
the mandarins reasoned that in relief al
finding their nationals safe the Powers
would be more likely to overlook the
damage done to their property in the
fighting.
THEME WITH VARIATIONS
“Helen Traubel, a prima donna of New York
Metropolitan Opera since 1939, has broken
with that company over a dispute whether she
should sing at Chez Paris night-club, Chicago.”
Some dames are mobilay.
They give the Met. away;
They sing in nightclubs.
Not in the right clubs;
They’re unpredictable
And unrestrictable —-
Rather than sing it
They like to swing it:
Some say they’re lazy,
Some say they’re crazy.
But what do they say ?
“Poppa, the opera’s gone Pops !’’
11. Waltz
I shared my beach-umbrella
On Sunday by the sea
With old Otello’s fella,
And asked him home to tea ;
But when I saw his car go
I knew it had to be:
You’re pretty good, lago,
But you were bad for me.
111. Blues
When the loot scooted oot on his doll in
old Japan,
That cute little beaut felt lost without her
man ;
First she sighed, then she cried, then she
lay right down and died—
As a wife’s way of life, that is
un-A-mer-i-can.
Now, if you was untrue like this Nip,
Madam Butterfly’s, sport,
I’d a taken you out, and shaken you out
in court.
But this poor little fool hadn’t never been
to school
So she didn’t know the marriage-duel
! rules like wise girls ought.
IV. Rhumba or Something
La Tosca, La Tosco, you’re beautiful,
you’re boscar,
So please don’t kill me tonight;
I’m feeling bad and brutal; resistance
would be futile.
So please don’t kill me tonight.
I don’t mind dying on your behalf.
But not when the stars are bright,
So murder me at dawning when you
wake beside me, yawning.
But please don’t kill me tonight.
V. Hotcha ..
My daddy says “yes,” but I say “no” ;
I ain’t gonna sing in no opera-show ;
It’s all very well when the folks are
aroun’,
But what’s a girl got when the curtain
comes down?
You gargle your tonsils for act after act;
It’s all paper-music — they’re very exact —
Then the guy you should wed gets
knocked on the head —
What’s the use of a lover who’s carried
off dead ?
Yes, many an opera-singer, I’d say,
Would be better-off singing in some
cabaret.
And many exponents of jazz-caterwaul
Should be stabbed in an opera, once and
for all.
So I give you good people a Melba’s
Farewell,
With encores tomorrow —you never can
tell,
For my daddy says “yes,” but I say
“no"—
I ain’t gonna sing in no opera-show.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“Fino”: TattersaU’s transfer to Mel-
bourne will recall the days when the post-
office would not accept mail addressed to
the lottery firm in Tasmania. Until the
situation was explained to them, new-
comers and visitors to Australia were
greatly puzzled by the cryptic notices
then displayed in nearly every barber-
shop; “I communicate with Hobart.”
❖ * *
“Dalmore”: I’ve waited years to see
it; now I am happy. Four cars
approached an intersection at the one
time. Each driver gave way to the man
on his right, and the four cars stopped.
I had visions of the four starting again
and crashing in the centre of the inter-
section. The drivers apparently had the
same idea, for no one moved. They
might have stayed there all day, but one
man broke the deadlock by getting out
of his car. The car on his left, no longer
having to give way, moved off, followed
by the car on his left, then the next and
finally the fourth driver got back into
his car and drove off. But I’m still wait-
ing to see four Sydney taxis in the same
position.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Billy S,”; Was my face red when I
saw “Jasby’s” par. (B. 23/9/’53) regard-
ing the pipe-band playing “Over the Sea
to Skye” when the State Governor visited
a suburban church. My church was
recently visited by his Excellency. ' At
saluting-time a covey of high-school
cadets bunged on a beauty, and a bag-
pipe band borrowed for the occasion
wailed in with “Over the Sea to Skye.”
When the tumult had died down, I made
my way towards the church accompanied
by one of my co-wardens, a gallant
colonel culled from the pages of Memoirs
of a Fox-hunting Man. That is to say.
my colonel, like Sassoon’s, takes the
lessons, the hymns and the responses at
a “rattling good gallop.” Among the
many medals on his chest dangles the
D. 5.0., which he certainly didn’t win for
musical appreciation. As we walked past
the perspiring pipers, he whispered to me
without a smile on his face “I never
thought I’d hear a pipe-band make such
a job of the National Anthem.” I don’t
know which bush “Jasby” was hiding
behind that morning, but I do hope he
followed us inside. His two-bob would
have been especially welcome.
* *
“Muskeen”: Amongst Jorgen Jorgen-
son’s activities in Tasmania (B. 23/9/’53)
was that of a participant in the “Black
War.” My great-uncle, Roderick Forbes,
records in his memoirs that:
There was with us one Jorgen Jorgenson,
a Dane and a very remarkable character.
For some political cause or State reasons
he was transported, prior to which he had
attempted to get himself proclaimed King
of Iceland. We were breasting the steep
hills with heavy knapsacks and light hearts.
One of the party, a young, witty fellow,
would now and again cry; “Where is
Nora?” to the great annoyance of Jorgen-
son, for this was his wife’s or concubine’s
name. This cry being frequently repeated
caused Jorgenson to get into a flaming
passion. He halted the party and wanted
me to take the lad in custody. I, of course,
refused on the plea that I was no constable.
Three-thousand-five-hundred men were
mustered to capture the blacks, and a
very scratch lot they must have been.
My great-uncle’s party of nine were “a
very Falstaff-looking set. One wanted an
arm, another was lacking an eye, an
arrant coward, a stupid lout” and so on.
The result of six or seven weeks’ “cam-
paigning” was the capture of two blacks.
♦> ♦:* ❖
“J.J.A.”: “F.S.” may be right about
Leonardo da Vinci being myopic ; some
of the more modern painters were obvi-
ously so, and had they worn glasses of
the right shape their art would have been
far more attractive. I refer particularly
to paintings about a yard or so square
from which one must stand 20yds. away
in order to focus them properly—and
then miss the detail through being so far
away. Van Gogh and M°net are two
famous painters who seem to have been
“short-sighted.”
*l* ♦> ❖
“Dash”: At the Old Boys’ Reunion
dinner two portly citizens were going over
their reminiscences. “Well, George, I
hear the world has treated you very well,”
said one to his obviously affluent school-
mate of long ago. “Oh, I don’t know,
John,” came the reply. “Success only
means that instead of swearing at the
public transport inadequacies you’re
wondering whether you’ll get that plane
reservation in time.”
♦♦♦. +>
“Taffy”: Apart from the fact that “Bo”
(B. 23/9/’53) quite wrongly attributes the
brilliance of the Hollywood kero.-lamp
to a magical property of the native
illuminant, he is in error in ascribing the
source of light used in more civilised
places to a “500-amp. electric bulb.”
Amperes are a measure of current-rate
and not of candlepower, the latter
depending on the product of the voltage
and amperage or watts and the efficiency
of the type of lamp used. The average
metal-filament bulb, for J example, pro-
duces rather better than one candlepower
per watt, and, at the normal Sydney
voltage of 240, “Bo’s” 500-amp. globe
would give more than 120,000 candles,
which would be good for shack lighting
even in Hollywood. I won’t enter into
a dissertation on the chemical implica-
tions of the suffix “ene,” but it should be
pointed out that—in spite of the conser-
vatism of some of the major oil com-
panies the only technically-correct
"I'm sure that if We confessed our love your wife Would understand ."
spelling for common lamp-oil is
kerosine.
“Abra”: Walls’ blacksmith - shop at
Dunolly (Vic.) was sold recently. It was
at this place on February 6, 1869, that a
horse and dray, followed by a curious
and excited crowd of people, stopped. A
blanket was removed from an object in
the dray, and strong arms lifted the Wel-
come Stranger nugget of gold to the
anvil of Bert Walls, the smith. It was
cut to pieces with the aid of a cold-chisel
and a sledgehammer. The golden chips
that fell from the anvil, when smelted,
weighed 22680 z. lOdwt. Mgr. A
further 270 z. came from the piece of
quartz adhering to the nugget, and
lOoz. were given away in specimens,
making a total weight of 23050 z. lOdwt.
14gr. The finders of the gold, John
Deason and Richard Oates, have long
since passed away. The anvil on which
the nugget was broken is in possession of
Mr. George Crothers, of Natte Yallock,
10 miles from Dunolly. The gold?
Possibly at Fort Knox.
♦> ❖
“Yair”: She may have had a bright
idea, but the inquiry clerk in the Medical
Benefits office didn’t seem to appreciate
it. As she finished signing the applica-
tion form she said firmly: “Now, then!
If I don’t get sick for five years, how
do I go about getting my money back?”
* ❖ *
“Lucky”: Before we went on our first
operational mission after passing out
from Lancaster flying-school, we decided
upon a crew photograph—a decision
prompted not so much by sentiment as
by the amount of money we owed each
other. As Shorty put it, the pictures
would be handy in proving identity in
connection with the recovery of money
from estates. We selected a posh studio
in Oxford-street where a Gallic-looking
character in beret and smock and sport-
ing a black, wispy moustache endeavored
to marshal us in exactly the right poses,
but found the going hard because of the
obtuseness of the subjects and their seem-
ing inability to hold their assigned posi-
tion. At last Gallic patience gave out and
he exploded in pure Cockney: “Cawnt
inny of you bleedin’ Orstrylians under-
stand plain Henglish?” From then on it
was plain sailing.
“Swelpme”: I’ve often pondered on
the birth of a slang word. Until the last
year of the ’thirties I’d never heard the
noun “blue” used as a substitute for
“blunder.” Then suddenly it was with us.
No doubt it derived from “bloomer,” but
in no time it had taken on a dual per-
sonality—a blue could also be a row, a
fight; to “put on a blue” became the
equivalent of to “kick up a stink,” which
had supplanted “raise a shine.” A verb
evolved from the noun. We now hear of
married couples “blueing already.’ To
make things even more complicated
“blue” has still retained its traditional
use when applied to a titian blonde,
Thus, running into a redheaded young
fellow whom I hadn’t seen since his
wedding several years before, I asked con-
versationally: “Any little Blues yet/
His reply was somewhat stiff: “Shirl and
I get on very well together.”
„ ♦>
“Vingter”: Some years ago a batch of
enterprising bank-officers in a N.Q, town
where bachelor existence was hectic and
correspondingly expensive hit upon a
profitable sideline. They were keen week-
end fishermen and had been regularly
distributing their catch around the town’s
pubs and boarding-houses. One of them
suggested that they put things on a busi-
ness basis. Next move was the hiring of
a cart, and then two carts with which the
bank-officers toured the town early each
Monday morning crying their wares in
true professional style. Business was
brisk, and, with further expansion of
operations, financial worries became mere
memories. At length, however, there
arrived the fly in the ointment in the
person of one bank’s inspector, who
reported the syndicate to his head-office,
which responded with a memo telling its
officers to withdraw from the sea-food
syndicate. Other banks followed suit, and
once again initiative was killed, this time
by private enterprise.
♦£♦
“Pat”: The two bright young things
were discussing their reactions to “South
Pacific.” “I thoroughly enjoyed the first
act, but I couldn’t concentrate on the
second at all,” said one. “Why on earth
not?” asked the other. “Well, my dear,
we were late in, and when the interval
lights went up I noticed that the man on
my right was colored. All through the
first act I’d been telling Peg that the
color-bar was a ridiculous anachronism
and I didn’t believe in it a bit. Well,
you can imagine how nervous I was after-
wards, in case he decided it would be
all right to speak to me.”
* ❖ ❖
“Irving”: At first I listened under
duress to the article my long-haired boss
started to read from her weekly women’s
journal, but my interest quickened as I
grasped that the feature, obviously by a
male, dealt scathingly with characteristic
absence of logic in the human female.
The writer exposed the whole range of
the better-known feminine foibles and
their unscrupulous operation against the
genus husband. On finishing, my spouse
inquired “Who does that remind you
of?” I remained diplomatically silent,
though I was wildly hoping for an abject
self-castigation-with an admission of past
shortcomings on her part. Instead, she
continued: “The article reminds me of
you, because the fellow who wrote it is
just like you—a frightful knowall!” A
week has gone by, but I’m still suffering
vicariously for the bloke who wrote the
feature. Still, I have this consolation:
if the author is married, as is indicated
by the poignancy of the article, he must
be suffering even more than I.
PROGRESS TO EASY-STREET
After years of patient waiting,
Lottery-luck exasperating
Still I had.
Though I was a constant striven
Couldn’t even strike a fiver;
It was bad.
Then one day I deeply pondered
On the dough I thus had squandered.
I’d refuse
To pursue a quest so hopeless.
So I tossed it in—one dope less
In the queues.
Choosing likelier acquisition,
It was plain some competition
Offered scope.
Then : “One thousand pounds in prizes !”
Hit my eye—it advertises
Someone’s soap.
Just one missing word to fill in.
This was something that my skill in
I could boast.
On it long I meditated,
Sent my entry in, then waited
On the post.
Oh, when I heard that I’d done it!
That with one short word I’d won it!
How I burned
With the pride of strong achievement —
Then came something like bereavement
When I learned
That at least six-thousand others
Also hit upon it, brothers.
So you see
Whilst it all extremely fair was.
The exact sum of my share was
Three-and-three.
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


Fly Faster by TAA pressurised CONVAIR-UNER
TO MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and
PERSONAL ITEMS
The other day managing-director Holy-
man, of A.N.A., presented the appropri-
ately-named Captain Jason Hazzard with
a watch in recognition of his attaining
to 20,551 hours of flying, and handed
a similar gift to his uncle, Captain
Keith Virtue, who has also passed the
20,000. Virtue started flying in 1928
and next year was up in his own aircraft
A year later he taught nephew Hazzard,
who until then had never driven even a
motor-car. Born in the Lismore (N.S.W.)
district, they did their early flying there
as pioneers of aviation with New Eng-
land Airways, and carried on when
N.E.A. became A.N.A. Hazzard is prob-
ably the youngest pilot to pass the 20,000,
while his uncle is reckoned to be the
second or third most experienced pilot
in the world. Between them they have
flown over 6500 times on the Sydney-
Brisbane run, as well as piloting Sky-
masters Australia-U.K.
Artist Lambart caught Dick Hunter
after the French Ambassador had pinned
the Legion d’Honneur insignia on
Hunter’s lapel. French Consul in Brisbane
for the past six years, Hunter is Irish by
birth, accountant by training and
managing-director in office. All his busi-
ness fife has been spent with the Nixon-
FRENCH CONSUL
Smith shipping and wool concern in
Queensland, which outfit he joined as
junior clerk. He succeeded R. E. Nixon-
Smith as Consul. Member of upwards of
half a dozen Brisbane clubs, he bowls
and golfs when not fishing.
Admiral Sir Michael Denny is well-
stayed to carry his appointment as boss
of Britain’s Home Fleet, the immediate
defender of the Island, He’s a gunnery
man, not of the gate-and-gaiters type,
but a sort of seagoing scientist who has
spent all of his service fife, when not
afloat, on experimental work at H.M.S.
Excellent, the R.N.’s huge gunnery-
school. And, in 1942-43, years when it
was needed, he was chief of staff to the
C.-in-C, Home Fleet. Out this way
towards the end of the war, captain of
carrier Victorious.
“Fitz”: When the Society of Australian
Writers was formed in London some little time
back it selected as its president the only living
Australian possessing the Order of Merit, Dr.
Gilbert Murray, who was Regius Professor of
Greek for nearly 30 years at Oxford University
until his retirement 14 years ago. Now 87,
Gilbert Murray still leads a busy life. The
8.8. C. refers to him as “a favorite broadcaster.”
Earlier this year he gave six talks on “Hellen-
ism,” and although each talk was pre-recorded
he insisted on going to the London studio on
the occasion of each broadcast. In a letter
to Herbert Holman, of The Bulletin’s London
staff, he said: “In general, lam going on with
ray usual work.”
His main interests are participation in the
activities of various United Nations organisa-
tions —he is joint-president with Lord Cecil of
the United Nations Association —and his Greek
studies. He has just finished a new critical
edition of the text of ALschylus for the Oxford
University Press and a translation of Euripides’
lon. Of Gilbert Murray, Lord Cecil has
written: “He is the most selfless man I have
ever known, with a most delightful sense of
humor and a mastery of style,” A recent issue
of the “United Nations News” said; “If ever
a man were the impersonation of love of his
fellow-men, it would be Dr. Murray the
thought of suffering, or oppression or cruelty
ignites in him a holy anger, in strange and
inspiring contrast to his customary gentleness
of manner and of speech.”
This great humanitarian and distinguished
scholar was born in Sydney in 1866. He was
the third son of Terence Murray, sometime
president of the N.S.W. Legislative Council,
whose father was paymaster of the 48th Regi-
ment and served with it in N. S. Wales from
1817-24. An elder brother of Gilbert was Hubert,
a, wise and able administrator of Papua for
half a lifetime. Gilbert Murray left Australia
in 1911, and went to the Merchant Taylors’
School, London, and then on to Oxford. His
love of Greek literature was manifest when at
the age of 23 he became Professor of Greek
at Glasgow University. His life has been a
series of scholastic triumphs. It has been said
that “His verse translations and free renderings
of Greek plays by Euripides, Sophocles and
Aischylus are of the highest quality, and reintro-
duced Greek drama to the stage.” Notable
performances of his translations were first given
during the Vedrenne-Barker management of the
Court Theatre, London, and there have been
very many since then.
Passed on in Melbourne, H. H. (Bert)
Trebilco, one of the country’s eminent
tax experts. Joining the department in
1911, he succeeded J. Adams as Deputy
Federal Commissioner of Taxation in
Melbourne in 1942, after a long innings
in Canberra, to which city he was recalled
to help in the Federal assumption of
unified control. Westralia had him as
State Commissioner in the late ’thirties ;
he was chairman of the Taxation Board
of Review at the end, at 60, a few days
after his birthday.
White-ants haven’t found a crust with
timber firm of J. Wright and Sons
Pty., Ltd., which celebrated its 100 years
of business in Melbourne the other day.
Founded by James Wright, the business
has continued under direct management
by members of four generations of the
Wright family. The present chairman of
directors, J. W. Wright, is a grandson, the
secretary, Miss A. E. Wright, a grand-
daughter, and the managing-director,
J. F. L. Wright, a great-grandson of the
founder. He learnt his trade in Falkirk
(Scotland), and landed in Melbourne in
September, 1853.
“M.S.”: Colin Woodfull, that new
secretary of the R.A.S. in Melbourne (B.
23/9/’53), is largely responsible for the
big job of reconstruction at the Show-
grounds, and is a brother of cricketer
Bill, until recently principal of Melbourne
High. Colin is a barrister by profession
and a doggy man by predilection —his
hobby is the breeding of the elongated
German dachshund. A member of the
R.A.S. for years, he gave up his member-
ship to become secretary and take on the
job of rejuvenating the grounds after they
had been relinquished by the R.A.A.F.,
which used them as a training-school in
the war years. A lot more of it was
taken over during the housing crisis for
a Commonwealth slum-abolishing project,
and the R.A.S. got some of this back
only two days before the Show opened.
So the new sec. had only 12 months in
which to work the change that resulted
in the biggest and brightest Show ever.
He comes of a well-known Bendigo
family and served in the R.A.A.F. in the
late war.
A chunky 30-year-old, Julius Zeyer,
appointed boxing-instructor to the Fre-
mantle police boys’ clubs, brings a mort
of overseas experience to the job, which
he is the first Newstralian to hold. Once
sparring-partner to former world middle-
weight champion Marcel Cerdan, Zeyer
was an aspirant for the European title,
but migrated to Australia before a cham-
pionship bout could be arranged. He
has fought in five European countries,
and twice in Westralia for two wins. In
his own country, Czechoslovakia, which
he left in 1950, he held the welter and
middleweight titles.
William Ewart Gladstone Livingston,
elder of the two company-directors who
were shot dead in Perth, while waiting
to attend a board-meeting, had long been
one of Westralia’s most prominent busi-
nessmen. Born in Glasgow 72 years ago,
he came to Australia as a young man,
commenced his business career in Adelaide
—company director —and moved on to
Perth in a similar capacity. Out of busi-
ness he’d been chairman of the council
of the Perth Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
director of the Y.M.C.A. and member of
the Westralian Presbyterian General As-
sembly, which he had represented at
General Assemblies in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. As a commissioner of the
church he was one of the small body
responsible for the control of church
property in Westralia, He was the
father-in-law of N.Z. Minister for Health,
John Marshall.
“Uramao”: Soon now Justice North-
croft steps down from the Supreme Court
Bench in New Zealand, after 18 years
on it. A native of the West Coast
and son of the proprietor of the “Times”
at Hokitika, he was admitted to the Bar
in 1907 and hung out his shingle at
Hamilton, where he continued to collect
costs till the Kaiser pulled the lanyard.
Going overseas as an artillery officer, he
later commanded the 3rd Battery of N.Z.
Field Artillery. In the trial of Japanese
war criminals in 1946-48 he represented
N.Z. on the panel of judges in Tokio.
Slim and trim (as depicted by Dubois
when he caught him aboard the flagship),
Roy Russell Dowling succeeds to the
seagoing command of the Australian
Fleet, a couple of months after he put
the two red balls of a rear-admiral on his
flag. One of the most respected senior
officers in service, with a wholly personal
power of command, Dowling has made
a habit of seagoing since, in 1915, he
joined the Navy from Toowoomba, on
the Queensland Downs (he first
saw the fight at the sugar-mill townlet
of Condong, N.S.W.). He took on
gunnery, and (a measure of his com-
petence) was appointed squadron
gunnery-officer of a British cruiser
squadron when in his late ’twenties. His
first War II ship was cruiser Naiad,
executive-officer under the celebrated
Vian, torpedoer of Bismarck. In the
Mediterranean in 1942 a torpedo removed
his address from under him. Next ship
FLEET COMMANDER
was cruiser Hobart, refitting at Cockatoo
from her torpedo damage in the
Solomons. Dowling had to work up an
almost new crew; he did the job with a
quietly persistent thoroughness that made
Hobart’s six-inchers at Cebu, Tarakan,
Labuan and Balikpapan a force that was
felt. He was the first captain of
Australia’s first aircraft-carrier.
Australian writing today is enjoying a
Golden Age—or so Arthur Smith (pub-
lished hereunder) thinks, and he should
know. In both publishing and booksell-
ing for the past 35 years. Smith was bom
English but raised N.Z., and was with
Whitcombe and Tombs for close on 20
years. He crossed to Melbourne in
1940 to manage the Book Depot and
to create its publishing department
BOOKMONGER
there. In 1947 W. G. Cousins and Albert
Ritchie persuaded him to Angus and
Robertson’s in Sydney, where for four
years he was retail-manager. Two years
ago this week he shifted back to Mel-
bourne, to open A. and R.’s retail-branch
in Elizabeth-street, which he has going
strong. Of Bant Singer’s You're Wrong,
Delaney, Smith admits he opened the
book with some misgivings of this attempt
by an Australian to crash the British and
American cripie-market. He digested the
story at one sitting, promptly cabled a
substantial order to London, and now
reckons Bant is a likely contender for
the Cheyney-Chandler throne.
C. R. Gould, a genial six-footer who
has been senior of the two chief-inspec-
tors of the Westralian Police Force for
over two years, is laying down the baton
and taking his job with him into retire-
ment. His successor will be designated
assistant-commissioner, and the JForce
will carry on with one chief-inspector.
Gould trod his first beat in Perth in
1914, transferred to the Liquor Inspec-
tion Branch and after that wrestled with
traffic problems and was head of the
Traffic Branch.
Into the Silence;
In Brisbane, at 88, James Brennan, for close
on 50 years a Queensland Hansard reporter.
From 1926 until his retirement in 1933 he was
chief-reporter. He began his career as a pupil-
teacher in the old Normal School in Adelaide-
street, in 1879.
At 85, in Sydney, William Stafford, one of
the originals of the “Floradora” sextette, with
J.C.W.’s for half a century. There were not
many with a wider knowledge of the Australian
theatre; for years after his retirement from the
stage he had been the Firm’s librarian, and
amateur theatrical societies in Sydney found him
particularly valuable with advice on a play or
script.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 56, Richard De
Renzy Harman, an architect whose work adorns
much of the Flat City, especially the churches.
The chapel of St. Michael and St. George in
the cathedral and a number of churches are
his monuments; tourists who have travelled
the Mt. Cook regions will remember the Church
of the Good Shepherd at Lake Tekapoy, where
through the window behind the altar worship-
pers look out upon the beautiful lake. Harman
served overseas with the N.Z.E.F. in War I
and commanded the 4th Batt. of the Canter-
bury Regiment in War 11.
In Adelaide, at 73, Charles Philip Butler,
eldest son of the late Sir Richard Butler,
S. Australian Premier in 1905, and brother
of Sir Richard Butler, Premier also for two
terms ranging over eight years. In the Boer
War a trooper, in War I colonel in command
of the 43rd Battalion (D.S.O. in France), C.P.
later went back to his agricultural interests,
which led finally to the agricultural editorships
of the Adelaide “Advertiser” and “Chronicle.’
Under the nib-name “Yattalunga” he wrote
there for 20 years from 1929.
At Bunbury (W.A.), at 87, John Leonard
Walker, oldest and for many years a leading
solicitor of the Westralian south-west.
At 42, in Alan Davidson, a few
weeks after his election as president of the
Citizens’ Municipal Organisation, which had
expected great work from him. In business life
he was g.-m. of Tristram’s, the Queensland
soft-drink firm.


OPENING OF THE SEASON


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless Horseman”: The old bush
belief that what goes down a sheep’s
throat affects the wool is right. On
Heatherlie, a farm in the picturesque red-
gum bends of the Glenelg River (Vic.), at
the back of the Strathdownie scrub,
Murray Humphries grew a bumper crop
of Carrots. He bagged 27 tons to the
acre and left eight tons of seconds behind.
To use these he put 800 Merino wethers
on the 15-acre carrot-patch to fatten.
They fattened all right, but in a few
weeks went red as turkey-gobblers in the
face and the wool was tinted. Even after
recuperating on river-flat grass' for two
months they still retained their rubicund
dials, though all but about 100 lost their
tinted staple. Carrot-based rouge for the
flapper seems to be indicated.
• * ♦ «
“Rooster”: The covering of the case-
moth, suspended in my tool-shed, was
engineered with painstaking precision
from pieces of twigs, sand-grains, grass-
stems, pieces of straw and string, the
sticks firmly sewn down with silk
spun by the larva, the whole architec-
“EIGHTY? I thought that was a three!”
turally perfect. Whether the young
emerge alive or are hatched from eggs
is still a disputed point, but the female
moth never leaves the case; it is her
larval home, puparium, adult shelter,
nursery—and tomb.
♦ ♦ * *
“Yapping Bushman”: Boys, what
is the toughest cattle-track in Aus-
tralia, past or present? A yarn
with P. C. Button, of Circular
Head (Tas.), has convinced me it’s the
route from that spot in the north-west
corner of Tassie down the rugged west
coast —the roughest, wildest and wettest
coastline in the Commonwealth—2oo
miles to Strahan. This old-timer, now
a farmer outside Stanley, started life 40
years ago droving mobs of 150 head of
fats down this route with an offsider and
a packhorse. They had no watering
troubles, and they had dogs, but they
had every other obstacle —swimming
rivers, rain almost every day and no feed
beyond heath. Mostly the mob travelled
in single-file over rocks, yet they did the
trip in 16 days and delivered the Short-
horns fat at the mining camps. In those
days. Button reports, it was common to
see as many as a dozen Tasmanian tigers
on the beaches eating offal.
* * ♦ *
“Kelms”: One reason for the camel’s
superiority over the horse in the desert is
the fact that you can lead a camel to
water and make it drink. The practice
before entering a dry stage was to let the
camels drink their fill —an unbelievable
amount at times. But some teamsters also
forced a horn into the oont’s mouth and
poured water down its throat until it was
literally full. Some, again, filled up a
spare m the form of a mongrel camel
that couldn’t cover a dry stage. A day or
two out that camel was killed and its tank
emptied, not into the other camels but
into the men’s waterbags. It was green
and unappetising, but drinkable.
* * * *
“Broadway”: During an eclipse of the
sun in 1919 scientists who were observing
a beam of light from a distant star
noticed it was drawn towards the sun as
it passed that orb, so they concluded that
light possesses weight. Since they’ve been
able to show that the sun loses some
thousands of tons per hour in the weight
of the light it emits, I’ll assume they’re
pretty sure of their facts. Now, if light
has weight it may be affected by winds,
which would explain something that I’ve
noticed often lately. I’ve been milking
when the sun started to show up, but its
rays made little difference to the light.
Then a breeze sprang up from the east,
and as it reached me the light increased
immediately. It was as though the wind
blew aside a curtain, yet there was no
mist.
* * ♦ *
“Mem”; Mungo, the sawmill’s tyke,
was a great black hunk of amiability ex-
cept when provoked by the shrill chal-
lenges of the carrier’s pooch from his
perch on the back of his master’s truck.
Occasionally Mung would manage to
climb aboard, whereupon a battle would
ensue as the truck went on its way. Then
the old black dog fell foul of the circular-
saw, and after the vet. had done a full
half-hour’s stitching job on him the dog
was locked in the mill-office to recover.
Mung showed his opinion of this first by
proceeding to bite out the stitches assidu-
ously ; then, hearing the carrier’s truck
going by, he went through the office
window in a shower of glass and began
to totter gamely after his old sparring-
partner. He eventually died of old age.
The odd part about his enmity with the
carrier’s tyke was that when they were
both on the ground they ignored one
another.
* ♦ «*s *
“West Wimmera”; She-oak and bull-
oak (B. 16/9/’s3> are two distinct
varieties, which live and reproduce inde-
pendently of each other, the names being
no indication whatever of the sex. Both
trees were once very plentiful in this
Victorian district, but, while bull-oak is
increasing, she-oak is rapidly dying out.
We have a paddock containing a veritable
forest of young bull-oaks, from 20ft.-
high saplings to seedlings of a few inches,
where no she-oak tree has grown for
over 50 years. The foliage of both trees
is similar, but that of the she-oak is
lighter in color, finer, more drooping and
milder in taste. Both trees bear cones,
or “apples,” which are entirely unlike,
These, together with the taste of the
foliage, are the best means of distinguish-
ing the trees. As kids we often made
from the “apples” a brew we flattered by
“Now, no wisecracking!”
the name of “she-oak beer.” The foliage
of both trees is greatly relished by stock.
The dry wood is amongst the world’s
best fuel, while bull-oak wood, with its
rich red color and attractive grain, will
take a polish equal to mahogany. It is,
however, too heavy for furniture. They
are a hardy, long-lived tree, but seem
favorite hosts of the fatal mistletoe.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Archaen”: The name of the aboriginal
girl starring in the film “Jedda” isn’t
spelt Gnarla (B. 23/9/’53). It’s Ngarla,
the Ng being a consonant not found in
English, but quite common in the Poly-
nesian language as well as in the dialects
of our aborigines. Some whites try to
pronounce this consonant by ignoring
the g; others turn it into ay. Both are
wrong, and it’s quite easy to get your
tongue around it if you know what to
do. In the first place you must remember
that it isn’t pronounced as in finger, but
as in singer. Say “Singarla,” repeat it
with the S dropped, then omit the second
letter when you say it the third time.
The result is Ngarla pronounced as the
abos. say it. Exactly the same thing
holds good with Maori names such as
Ngaire, Ngaio and Ngata. Try the same
method with them and you’ll soon be able
to pronounce them in a way which will
bring a grin of approval to any Poly-
nesian.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: If size was the handi-
cap with the old-time sailing craft (B.
23/9/’53), then the crack little Tas-
manian bluegum-built barque Harriet
McGregor Would take some beating.
Every Christmas afternoon for 25 years
after she first took the water in Hobart
in 1871, this 134 ft.-long 333-tonner
started on its 78-day run to London, and
made annual in-between trips from
Hobart to Mauritius and back for sugar.
As to the Black Ball Line sailers, if they
did come out flying light with emigrants
they certainly went home well-loaded.
In 1854 Lightning, loaded with wool and
14 tons of gold, ran from Melbourne to
Cape Horn in 19 days one hour —a
record never near-equalled by any other
sailer.
* * * *
“Bass”: Perth’s newest suburb is to be
name Maniana, which some authorities
say is a native word meaning “to-
morrow” or “tomorrow morning,” and it
was listed in some of the first dictionaries
of native languages compiled in W.A.
On the other hand, it is very similar in
pronunciation to the Spanish manana,
which means much the same ; and it’s
not likely that the two words would
occur independently in such different
languages. On the face of it, maniana is
almost certainly a native rendering of
mahana, and the question is, how long
ago did the natives pick it up? It could
have been introduced by the French or
American whalers who operated from
King George’s Sound before the first
British settlement was established there,
but it could also have been left by
Spaniards a century or two earlier.
All told, there were then a lot of
merchantmen in the waters to the north
of this continent, with quite a few pirates
and an odd man-o’-war. If a ship like
the Gilt Dragon could pile-up on the
Westralian coast on its way to Batavia,
then a Spanish or Portuguese ship could
be blown as far off-course, too. There’d
be sure to be an odd survivor, and
mahana might have been the word he
most often- thought of and uttered, and
the blacks weren’t slow to learn.
* * * *
“Horncastle”: An old identity of a
small western Queensland town continues
to snub vulgar reality with a poetic
philosophy that would have done credit
to Wordsworth’s little cottage girl. The
question “How many horses have you
got now, Billy?” always elicits the same
answer, “Three. Two dead an’ one alive.”
* * * ♦
“Billy T.”: Wally, back from
a spell out on the Darling, handed
me a hard, heavy lump of bleached
firewood with the sole, sufficient
remark, “Jock sent you this.” Knowing
Jock and his timber lore, I guessed why
he had sent the bit of budda;
and it proved the finest bit of
“ringed” timber that has come my
way. I' have a fine ringed jarrah
vase on the mantelshelf and a ringed red-
gum ruler in the drawera slab of
ringed gidyea awaits the time when I can
do it justice, but none of them compares
with this sliver of ringed budda —sandal-
wood to some N. S. Welshmen. Any-
way, what makes a particular tree ringed
in the grain? A cobber on a new block
cut hundreds of gidyea posts and rails
and didn’t get a ringed stick. The local
timber merchant reckons it occurs in a
tree which is bent back and forth by one
prevailing wind, but I can’t see it. What
does the Council say?
* * * *
“Sebak”: As a kid I was adamant that
guinea-pigs were infallible weather-
prophets. An hour or two before rain
my pets’ “Whee, whee, whee” shrilled
louder and more consistently (to my ears,
anyway) than at any other time. It
seemed they hollered because they were
hungry; they habitually scoffed twice
their usual amount of grub when rains
were coming. Nature apparently inducing
them to get a good supply tucked down
south in case of a flood or siege or some-
thing. Well, the other day the wife called
from inside: “Is it raining?” I looked
out and was surprised to find it was —a
very fine drizzle. “I could tell by the love-
birds,” she said. “Haven’t you noticed
the different chirp they make when it’s
raining?” As no rain falls on the birds,
they must be influenced by the sight of it
or the “feel” of rain in the atmosphere.
Which brings me back to wondering
whether those guinea-pigs could really
feel rain—a couple of hours before it
arrived.
THE DENNIS OMELETTE
At the foot of Mt. St. Leonard where in spring
the wattles glow,
Where the mountain-ash and messmate ’midst
the densest bracken grow,
There’s a mountain creek that wanders ’neath
the green boughs hanging Jow,
Where I finished with my mate Dennis in the
days of long ago.
With an angler’s calm precision “Den” picked
out a likely pool,
Where we fed a host of yabbies of a most
pugnacious school,
And I soon discovered thereby that the yabbie
is no fool
When it comes to robbing fishes in a manner
calm and cool.
Down between the logs and shadows we could
rSe the blackfish sweet.
Oh, so juicy and so succulent “Den” said they
were to eat,
With some breadcrumbs rolled around them in
a manner nice and neat,
Fried in butter (not with dripping) they would
be a perfect treat.
All this talk while we were beaten in a cunning
sort of style,
Outmanoeuvred and outgeneralled by the
strategy and guile
Of the calm Toolangi yabbies who consumed
our bait the while
Blackfish couldn’t get a look-in though queued
up in single file.
So we dined that night more simply on a Dennis
omelette,
And the poet swore, by crikey, they were his
best as yet,
And I did not mention yabbies lest he’d break
out in a sweat,
Nor the blackfish, nor the butter, nor the
breadcrumbs, don’t forget.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“S.G.”: I’ve seen a joey leave its
mother’s pouch when my horse was start-
ing to breathe down the ’roo’s neck, and
at a waterhole I’ve seen joeys diving for
the pouch. But only once have I actually
seen the young bloke scramble home,,
and that was in a zoo. It went in head-
first, somersaulting as it went, to finish
up with its head just showing. None of
my bush mates can ever recall having
seen Joey return to base.
* * * *
“K.R.”: After reading “Kelms’s” par.
on fungi (B. 30/9/’53) I looked-up
Webster’s to check on scientific terms he
used, “mycelium” and “hyphae.” A
mycelium, as “Kelms” also explained, is
the mass of interwoven threads of a
fungus, and hyphae are the threadlike
elements of a mycelium. So far so good ;
but Webster’s went on, “Hyphae increase
by apical growth and are coenocytic in
the Phycomycetes, but transversely sep-
tate in the Ascomycetes and Basidiomy-
cetes.” Now, can “Kelms” or any
biologist or zoologist on the Council put
that into simple language for me?
» * ♦ ♦
“Macquarie”; It was a drizzly day
and the ancient bus looked likely to blow
up with every knock of the engine. When
she was getting out the lady alongside
me took her parcels off the spring- bulged
seat, and wriggled her right leg from
around the gear-lever. When almost out
the door she stopped and exclaimed:
“Oops, nearly forgot my gamp!” and
leaned back to get it. She was on the
road and smiling her thanks to the driver
when he drawled humorously: “That
won’t keep much rain off y’; hadn’t you
better have this?” He was handing out
her umbrella; she had his gear-lever in
her hand, holding it by the knob. “I’ll
have to get it fixed in tight, one of these
days,” the driver informed me casually
as he dropped the lever back in its posi-
tion and drove on,
* * * *
“Ohinemuri”: “It’s an up-country
meetin’,” says Stretcher, “and I’m ridin’
a horse called Stone Ginger for an old
Irish bloke. As he legs me up he tells
me I’m on a cert and all I’ve got to do is
to hop him off at top and increase the
pace as I go. On the way round to the
post a runner from me bookmaker
cobber gives me the drum to hook me
mount, as he’s laid him for a packet. Feel
a bit sorry for the owner, but can’t let me
mate down. Soon as the barrier goes up
Ginger gives a dozen flyin’ pig-roots,
nearly plants me, then tears off like he’s
jet-propelled. I can’t hold him, we win
be thirty lengths and he bolts another
round of the course before I can pull
him up. The stewards put me in the
sweat-box, fanned me and me gear to see
if I’ve got a ‘jigger,’ and after a long
inquiry paid out. The old Irishman
never slung me, said I’d ruined his moke,
and me bookie cobber reckoned I’d taken
him on. It wasn’t till late that night in
the pub that I heard that a dirty crook
among the other riders had slipped a bit
of gorse under Stone Ginger’s tail just
as the barrier went up.”
* * * *
“Gulliver”: There are snags in
“Gravelsnatcher’s” proposal for 10,000-
acre paddocks at waterpoints along the
East Kimberley (W.A.) stock-route (B.
23/9/’53). Granted that cattle would do
better if turned out every night, instead
of being watched, and that 10,000 acres
isn’t much of a paddock in those parts,
it would take all morning to get a clean
muster, which would allow only the other
half-day to bustle the mob over the next
stage. Further, there wouldn’t be much
feed left after four or five mobs had
passed through, so that a holding-yard
would be the better proposition. It’s also
news to me that cattle on the track have
to be counted every morning—another
process which takes time and results in
more harmful hustling. Any boss-drover
who finds that necessary doesn’t need
paddocks at water-points; he needs
a fresh team of men who know their
jobs. And, finally, where is the drover
going to find a man who’ll ride round
quite a few miles of fence every evening
to make sure there aren’t any gaps, after
having spent all the day in the
saddle? I’d sooner spend a couple of
hours on watch any time —even on the
middle watch.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: A man likes to be
sure of these things. When I instanced
the ’Ghan getting £3OO for a riding camel
in an early Coolgardie two-up game I was
quoting, as I said, from memory. “Bailey
Street” (B. 12/7/’53) questioned that,
mentioning £BO as the highest he’d seen
paid for a camel. But I knew Ted would
remember, so when he came down the
other week I asked him. He recalls a
good camel fetching £l5O, but the best
camel he ever saw wasn’t sold, and he
wouldn’t guess its price. It belonged to
Wilson, a mining expert who used to race
out to new finds, get an option over what-
ever shows he could and float companies
on them. That job required the best
camel on the fields ; and this red beast of
Wilson’s was reputed to be able to do
130 miles a day for one day. You’d find
it hard to put a value on that animal, and
some of the Afghans had some just about
as good. Such a beast would certainly not
be overvalued at £3OO.
* * ♦ ♦
“Tom”: Breechloading cannon (B.
9/9/’53)? A small 17th-century one was
found by the crew of H.M.S. Beagle in
1840 on one of the Houtman’s Abrolhos
Islands, where Pelsart was wrecked in
1628, Probably it had been from his
ship. Commander Crawford Pasco,
R.N., who was an officer in Beagle at the
time, described the cannon in his auto-
biography, A Roving Commission. It
was of brass, of four-pounds calibre,
with an iron swivel and mounts for plac-
ing on a gunwale. There was an oblong
space cut out where the vent of a muzzle-
loader, would be, “and a movable cham-
ber with a handle on its side. This used
to contain the charge, and the breech
was then wedged into the gun.” The
cannon is now in the United Service
Institute, London.
“’ Struth! Don't y' know to give way to the one on y'r RIGHT?”
“Neerim”: It .was Lawson who first
made me aware of the tendency old
miners had to work old ground over
again, complete with mud-maps, fault-
lines, cross-courses, etc. It used to
amuse me when I was a boy in the
N.T. to watch the old hands drawing
maps to prove why they had lost it,
and always they were going back;
always they were sure they could pick
it up in a day or so. Later I fell for
the ancient line myself. The reef was
2ft. wide when we found it and it gave
us a three-ounce crushing, but at 15ft.
a floor came in under it and that was
the end of it. It ran north and south
at one time, but when we found it the
reef had a right-angle turn to run west.
When it cut out at bottom we found it
was also cut square across at both ends,
so we drove along the west fault-line in
a futile chase. If we’d only followed
the floor east I’m sure we’d have found
it again in a couple of days. Now I
“Come closer — I cant reach it!"
could make that all clear to you in a
few minutes if I could draw you a mud-
map of the whole layout. Yes, Henry
knew his old miners, all right.
♦ * * ♦
“G.L.”: What becomes of the
thousands of tons of broken bottles and
glassware in the country districts of Aus-
tralia? In the small Queensland hamlet
where I live the local authority dumps it
all into shallow trenches with waste tin,
iron, etc., and covers the trench with soil.
This is being done on a black-soil alluvial
flat. If the same thing goes on for a
generation sufficient land to support a
family will have been made useless.
♦jt
“Kelms”: Beekeepers, watching the
buds break in the sou’-Westralian karri
forests, are hopefully recalling the record
honey-flow of 1948-49, when production
doubled that of any previous season. In
the four years since then the karri hasn’t
blossomed to any noticeable extent. This
periodic blossoming, interspersed with
lean years, is a feature of some
Westralian honey-trees, and this year the
tuart flowered strongly for the first time
in seven years, which seems to be about
the average for that tree. It buds every
year, but the buds are attacked by a bug
which, for some unknown reason, is in
plague-form for six years running. Then
it misses a year, during which the trees
bloom profusely. So the beekeepers don’t
rely on tuart. But they do on jarrah
and redgum (marri), and there they bump
up against another problem. These trees
grow either together or on adjacent terri-
tory, and while redgum nectar flows best
in mild weather, jarrah likes it hot. The
difference seems to lie in the fact that
redgum uses dew in some way to provide
the nectar, while jarrah draws the mois-
ture through its roots. Fortunately for
the beekeepers, the main honey-flow
comes from the wandoo and white-gum,
and these trees grow in two distinct belts.
One belt flowers in winter, the other in
summer.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Billy T”: The annual cricket-match
between The Creek and The Pettiers has
been played again, but we can’t find out
who won; for one of the per.-way men
got hold of an ancient recipe for honey-
mead and, combining hospitality with
tactics, turned on a magnificent brew full
of boiled corn and raisins, honey and
strategy and malt, and the one thing all
are agreed on is that the match was a
beaut. As with all proper traditional
contests, it was being replayed far into
the night, but a few of the boys had to
get home to milk and it was from these
that we gathered there was something
unusual about the affair, for they all
arrived wet to the skin. Young Jimmy
explained: “The rest o’ the rfiob back
there are a bit full, but we were all right
till we come to the log over the crick,
then nobody wanted to go first.” There
was a bit of self-conscious chuckling as
we demanded who had shown the lead.
“Nobody,” he said, “we all swum.”
♦ * * ♦
“Sackfair”: I’ve never got round to
visiting Kempsey (N.S.W.), but I’m
reliably informed that it is an extremely
fertile spot; yet, according to what was
literally walloped into us at school, the
Kempsey district should be a vast dust-
bowl by now. About 35 years ago our
teacher gave us a passage to parse and
analyse; it ran: “A settler in the
Kempsey district holds that where pas-
palum has flourished for seven years in
succession the land becomes im-
poverished.” Knowing paspalum, I’ll
warrant that, if it ever flourished in
Kempsey, it is still flourishing there,
though the seven years have elapsed five
times over. If the author of the state-
ment is still on —not under—the land
around that way, he must heartily wish
he’d never made such an ill-founded
utterance. But I’ll bet he never wished
it so fervently as I did —four cuts and the
task of writing the sentence 300 times,
for failing to parse and analyse it cor-
rectly, make a kid kind of biassed.
• * • •
Who First Sailed The Murray
Wilfrid C. Busse may have started
something with an article featured in
Albury “Border Morning Mail,” in which
he doubts the accepted belief that Captain
Cadell in the Lady Augusta was the first
man to navigate the Murray in a steamer
from South Australia to Albury, v .
Busse gives this extract from a History
of Chiltern (south-west of Wodonga):
In 1855 the first steamer from South
Australia reached Albury. It has been
popularly supposed that the lady Augusta,
commanded by Captain Cadeil, was the
first boat to perform this feat. Such,
however, was not the case, as the residents
of Albury subscribed £lOO and presented
it to Captain Johnston of the steamer
Albury as being the first man to bring a
steamer over the 2000 miles that lay be-
tween the two points. A copy of the
testimonial was sent by W. B. Evans, of
Albury, to Alfred W. Eustace, who, in
turn, sent it to the “Federal Standard,”
Chiltern.
The text of the testimonial, says Busse,
“seems to be absolutely in favor of
Captain Johnston,” and he goes on to say
that the truth is that Cadell, unwilling to
risk his fine Lady Augusta in the then-
uncharted shallows and snags of the
Upper Murray, built the smaller Albury,
put Captain Johnston in charge and sent
him off.
Thus Cadell’s receipt of the cash
reward offered by the South Australian
Government for the feat was justified, as
he was the promoter and financier of the
voyage. All the saitie, if Johnston really
made the voyage he should get the credit.
The article says that S.A. Government
archives should be searched for the facts
anent Captain Johnston, and that 1855
files of Albury district newspapers, which
are possibly available in the National
Library at Canberra, should also be
searched. Further, the article names
W. B. Evans, Jeffrey P. Keating, Heywood
Atkins, J. E. Owen, M.D., James Mc-
Laurin, John Pierce and John Roper as
members of the committee which pre-
sented the testimonial to Captain
Johnston and wonders if their descendants
would search old family papers for
copies.
Well, there it is. There is a rapidly-
growing interest in Murray history, and
this could start the historians on a new
track.
M.U.R.
WRECK OF THE ADOLPHE
(Newcastle, N. S. Wales)
Why was the wind so angry that it threw
You
On to the Oyster Bank?
Even a man could see how proud you were,
How trim in sail, old barque;
Even the lubbers knew
How other men could share their love
Between you and the after-dark
Of Paris and the girlie ports of home.
Why was the wind so angry that it slew
You
Here on the Oyster Bank?
Even a youth who never saw you ride
Seaward at sailing tide,
Even the children now
Picking their way across your bones,
Old flaking skeleton, can guess
How fine, how brave, how glamorous you were.
Yet was the wind so angry that it blew
You
Death on the Oyster Bank.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


Ordering Sherry. Sweet or Pry ?
\ * 4
g
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
The Past and the Future
&
m
It was in Australia that
‘ William James Farrer
commenced experiments in 1885
which resulted in new disease-
resisting varieties of wheat of
inestimable value to the world.
A USTR ALLANS have played
•--'A# a prominent part in invent-
ing’ and perfecting many of the
things which have proved so im-
portant in the development of our
nation.
This hank, too, was founded, in the
early days, to assist the progress of
the Colony. To-day, still owned and
controlled by Australians, we offer a
modern and efficient banking service
to those who seek it and to those
who wish to take part in the further
development of our country.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Business. Rollery. Ete.
HOW THE 40-HOUR WEEK WAS BORN
People have awaited publica-
tion of the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court’s reasons for its re-
fusal to bring back a longer
working week or to shear any of
the frills off the “notional” basic
wage with an interest fully as
great as that which received the
decisions themselves. There is no
mistaking the bewilderment and
apprehension with which in-
dustry regards the functioning
of a court the boundaries of
whose jurisdiction seem to be
extending far beyond the mere
settlement of State industrial
disputes.
Largely, no doubt, because
successive Commonwealth Gov-
ernments have thrown upon the
court the responsibility for
decisions which they could
not or would not undertake
in Parliament, judges them-
selves have accepted, with
astonishment, duties legislative
as well as judicial. The over-
hauling of the whole system
of industrial arbitration is no
less necessary than that of the
suspended C-index for wage-
fixation, unless the Common-
wealth Parliament is in the
future to subordinate its
authority to this its own crea-
ture.
This is what the court said on
this matter in its judgment in the
40-hours case given in Septem-
ber, 1947;
The evolution of this court from
an industrial tribunal limited to the
particular task in each case, to an
institution having in effect wide legis-
lative powers, is an interesting one
which someone will one day explore.
This legislative power is so great as
to occupy a field from which the
Federal Parliament - is excluded; so
paramount as to override in appro-
priate cases the State legislation; and
so vital as to make law for Aus-
tralians in that realm which touches
tnem most closely and intimately, viz.
then - industrial relations filling half
the waking hours of their working
nfJni i. 1 ! S a mat , ter °f Striking com-
ment mat in a democracy so much
legislative power should be imposed
on and entrusted to three men [now
six] appointed for life and beyond
t" eac h of the popular wi11....
The present claims are....in effect
an invitation to a legislative tribunal
to declare a principle and, if in the
nationail interest, to make it law. This
if. a duty and a task which Mr.
Shell and Mr. Wright describe thus—
It raises vast national issues affect-
ing the whole economic future of
the continent, the interests and mutual
relations of every class of citizen,
the standard of living of every man,
woman and child in Australia, and
possibly national security itself.”
Ihey might easily have added—“ And
the wonder is that so much is en-
trusted to so few in a democracy
where representative government
exists. *
Yet Mr. Justice Foster, who
delivered the 40-hour judgment
of the court, refused less than
three years later (basic-wage in-
quiry, 1950) to consider the effect
of a £1 increase in the basic wage
upon the current inflationary
boom, and declared;
It may be thought by some that it
was “in the public interest’’ to stay
inflation by lowering wages or
maintaining them at present levels
or to protect industry from
oversea competition,.. .In my view
the court is not only not empowered
to act “in the public interest” at
large, but could not be empowered
under the Constitution so to func-
tion, except insofar as the public
good was incidental to the settle-
ment of an industrial dispute.
The 40-hour case began in
November, 1945. On October
30, 1946, having heard the case
for the unions and considered
addresses from employer
, respondents, it declared its
} “approval of the principle of a
40-hour week,” which, after
further evidence and argument,
it granted the unions in Septem-
ber, 1947, to come into force on
January 1, 1948, “uno ictu” (“in
one hit”).
In the words of the judgment,
the problem before the court
embraced
Social, economic, political (in the
widest sense) and international
matters, and the factors involved
Include production and productivity,
costs and prices, the state of the
internal economy, the economic
relations of classes, the relative
validity of the claims for leisure and
for goods, the right of the people
to determine these issues demo-
cratically, the relative position of
the States and the Commonwealth
and the development of great
national undertakings.
How did the judgment treat
that problem?
It dilated on the workers’ pur-
suit through centuries of history
for more leisure. Taking no
note of the immediate post-war
absence of the British Common-
wealth’s great international-mar-
ket competitors, Germany, Japan
and Italy, it declared that the
arguments of employers, who
opposed such claims on grounds
of threats to profits, production
and international trade, had not
changed in 100 years, and had
been “invariably proved by his-
tory” to be wrong. It declared
that “the popular will, if it could
be ascertained, is a matter which
the court should not ignore.”
The popular will was
apparently discerned in “the
facts that four States (N.S.W.,
Victoria, Queensland and Tas-
mania) and the Commonwealth
[incidentally, all under “Labor”
Governments] have become
parties to these proceedings and
have pressed the court to grant
forthwith a 40-hour week.” S.A.
opposed immediate application
of shorter hours; W.A. was
neutral. During the later stages
of the hearing the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment “exercised its constitu-
tional authority” by legislating
for 40 hours in that State.
Afterwards it went to the electorate.
There was no political change in the
Government as a result of the elec-
tions, and the [N.S.W.] Act became
operative as from July 1, 1947. The
Queensland Government, we were
told, proposes to pass a similar Act
during this year It is, of course,
very obvious that the N.S.W. Act
did alter very material economic and
political factors, and did, during the
hearing of the case, present this court
with a fait accompli. .. .and did affect
the freedom with which the court
might otherwise have acted.
The judgment then quoted
statements by counsel for the
Victorian and Queensland State
Governments urging “the im-
mediate grant” of a 40-hour
week ; this passage from counsel
for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, Mr. Lewis:
The Commonwealth says to the
court, through me as its spokesman,
with considered words, that after full
consideration of all the material
which has been placed before the
court, the Commonwealth’s view is .
that the evidence given warrants the
granting of a 40-hour week.
How did the court take this
“support by Governments”?
We regard these as matters of first
importance. The Commonwealth and
States are sovereign legislatures within
their respective spheres... .responsible
for the welfare of the people of this
country. Subject only to the awards
of this court made in settlement of
disputes within its cognisance, they
have power to control the whole
economic system of the nation
Directly and indirectly they are the
largest employers in the land The
results they seek cannot be imple-
mented independently of this court.
As for the arguments by non-
Government employers who
have to pay taxation and pro-
vide the wages which provide
other taxation—the judgment
said:
We are told there are shortages of
almost all commodities. There is a
huge building lag There is a sub-
stantial shortage of labor in almost
all industries. There are markets,
internal and external, crying out for
satisfaction and providing Australia
with an undreamed-bf opportunity for
laying the basis of a wide profitable
foreign trade. This, it is said, is a
time for lower costs, not higher
We are further told that production
and productivity are down, that our
material standards are in jeopardy,
that with a huge purchasing-power
in their hands consumers are frus-
trated when supplies are denied. In
short, it is urged that this is no time
to let up,...
But how shall we estimate the
economic value of industrial content-
ment? How far shall we measure the
human value of it? How far is the
shorten week a step on the road to
that co-operation of the forces of
production which is so desirable?
How shall we set the family aspects
of this increased contentment against
a foreign trade?
The court took heart from
the consideration that war-time
restrictions were the chief cause
of shortages and the war was
now over. It then proceeded to
these economic dicta:
There will always be shortages in
the relative sense if we maintain full
employment, which of necessary im-
plication postulates demands still
unsatisfied, and so shortages. What-
ever the figures seem to show, we in
Australia are well fed, well clothed.
ln some branches production is
considerably in excess of its im-
mediate pre-war stage But we are
short of houses—tragically short....
We have not been able to accurately
assess the real housing shortage or
to measure its intensity. The esti-
mates formulated to us have been
conflicting and irreconcilable. It is,
like other shortages, relative
At worst the 40-hour week will
postpone for some period—not long,
we think—the final overtaking of this
demand, and perhaps it is not alfo-
gether just that today’s workers
should be required to make good an
accumulated shortage and be refused
this claim for more leisure which a
future generation may win.
After all, the shortage was in
their own houses.
It is a matter of some significance
that responsible Governments
covering most of Australia do not
regard the shortages, even housing,
as a reason for refusing or post-
poning this claim.
Many other shortages are trace-
able to shortage of coal. Nothing
we do in this judgment will affect
coal-production. Miners do not
work 40 hours a week
And on this Dr, Coombs,
governor and then sole director
of the Commonwealth Bank,
offered in evidence “the interest-
ing consideration” that “if the
added burden of the 40-hour
week induced management and
workers to achieve better results,
then the shorter week would
make coal-supplies go further ■”
In addition, “higher prices will
reduce demand and in turn
eliminate some shortages that
exist on the present price-level.”
“Our decision,” says the
judgment, “will not affect pro-
duction in many industries,” and
in one wide sweep it thus dis-
misses “imported articles, coal,
steel, pig-iron, electric power,
rural industry and many indus-
tries already enjoying 40 hours”
by agreement, awards and State
law (including all N.S.W. by
recent State law, McGirr’s fait
accompli to affect the court’s
freedom of action). As for
evidence on loss of production;
The statisticians had their own
methods, and this evidence was the
most impressive of all The evi-
dence of representatives of the trade-
union movement and of management
in industry remains an accumula-
tion of individual instances with all
its inherent tendency to distract the
mind from issues of principle. Our
task, in the language of Mr. Justice


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Established 16U6 in Reign of
Oeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPIICATOR
Has all the finest features
ef high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Bail! tntirtly if* Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ageiiis~
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (AuiL)
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ĝ
. . ..BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
i BARRERE
I No Pads —
f No Springs
The neo-barreee
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
15AKKKRE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3A), ?43 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO REX JORDAN late of Chatswood and
Katooraba.—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
MAUD JORDAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3554 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 11th day of No-
vember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from K. B.
MORGAN, BOLSTER & CO.. Solicitors,
46 D’Arcy Street, Parramatta or their
city Agents, MORGAN, POTTS. CULLEN
& MALOUF, Solicitors, 9 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
m
Wh
m
■
Vf
a
Hffl
as
H
1
m
a
St?
KB
HR
5$
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
(Ttusabcv
-Iflotk-
GUARANTEED never to fade or shrink
Cl 13.3
Holmes (U.S.A.), is “to see as far
as one may and to feel the great
forces that are behind every detail,
for that makes all the difference
between philosophy and gossip.” In
the performance of that task we look
most properly for guidance to the
evidence of the statistical and eco-
nomic experts
To action in one direction or
another, and in some form or other,
we are committed Our task,
whichever way we view it and to
whatever conclusion we come, is, in
the broadest and truest sense, experi-
mental.
Among the statisticians and
economists (most of them
named) by whose evidence “we
must principally guide our-
selves,” those giving evidence
for the Commonwealth
outweighed all others.... They were
nonpartisan, and though they were
called by the Commonwealth, which
was an intervening party, we do not
think anyone felt that their evidence
was in any way colored or affected
by this fact.... We have decided
that we should accept the guidance
of these Commonwealth wit-
nesses. ...
Mr. Brown particularly seems
to have impressed the court. He
“attempted a mathematical mea-
surement” of the field that
would be affected by hours-
reduction “in terms of percent-
age loss of production overall,”
and “to trace the effect of that
lost production through the
community by way of the cost-
price structure, concluding that
the overall price-rise should not
exceed 4 per cent. Mr. Tyrer’s
figure was 9 per cent.”....
There were many suggestions that
the estimated fall would be much less
than the estimates of the experts.
The experience of the court, and also
the statistics (particularly some pro-
vided by Mr. Clark), lead us to the
view that the fall in production will
be fairly rapidly overtaken Laxi-
ties [in man-hour output] permitted
under war-time conditions are now
grown into habits, but they can be
overcome Forty hours’ work
might easily equal forty-four hours
of the kind of work and management
we have in our actual experience
witnessed... .Already taxation has
been somewhat reduced, and further
modifications might well relieve the
situation... .We have full employ-
ment and the promise that it will be
continued indefinitely... .When the
employer realises that he has lost
his cudgel, and the worker feels that
there is no need to fear ’unemploy-
ment, then we may be assured that
well-planned and safely guarded in-
centive systems will not only not be
resisted but will be welcomed.
The burden of added cost on
State instrumentalities, “particu-
larly railways and tramways,”
was similarly dismissed.
Th® court must assume the Aus-
tralian Government has, by its sup-
port of these claims, in effect, in-
formed the court that it is not
alarmed about the financial burden
which It is fully aware a favorable
decision would Impose upon these
public undertakings.., .We were at
one stage gravely concerned about
[this] but the position has been
greatly eased by the final statement
made by Mr. Lewis tor the Com-
monwealth and quoted herein
[above].
As for farmers:
They are unsheltered producers and
are to be the main bearers of any
cost-increases occasioned, but the
added costs which will affect rural
industry and which cannot be passed
on will, on the figures we accept, be
comfortably carried because of the
very greatly enhanced prices of rural
products, prices which look like being
maintained for a substantial period
of years. A bountiful season, as we
write, seems now assured.
Overseas prices for farm
products were expected by all the
economists to remain high ; esti-
mates of a fall were “guesses,”
but “in forming our conclusions
we have not been forgetful of
the pessimistic evidence of many
sections of primary-production,
and in particular sugar, wool,
wheat, canned fruit, jams, dried
fruit and fruitgrowing.” ’
As for foreign competition,
the percentage increase in wage-
rates in U.K. and U.S.A. (said
Mr. Brown) had increased by
about double the percentage in-
crease in Australia, and the
same applied to wholesale prices.
This is an encouraging feature for
Australia. For the rest, however,
the picture is somewhat blurred....
world in confusion war devasta-
tion dollar-shortage difficulties....
For these reasons it is impossible to
estimate the effect of our decision
upon Australia’s trade prospects. It
is certain that Australia’s prices will
be increased, but we are confident
not to such an extent as to jeopardise
such foreign trade as her present re-
sources, including manpower, would
enable her to undertake....
Increased prices in Australia are
not an unmitigated evil. We have
the opinion of the economists that
having regard to our rate of exchange
and the relative international value
of our money, it may be desirable
to increase prices in Australia.
True, Professor Giblin told
the court that he expected an
abnormal flow in imports, that
our sterling balances were not
freely available, and we must
expect deliberate restriction of
imports in the near future.
This would, of course, have some
important effects in this country, de-
priving us of goods and having an
adverse effect upon the inflationary
position in Australia We have
noted these factors; they are part of
our basic considerations.
Then as to savings:
Rentiers as such perform no use-
ful social function, but part of
savings comes from their incomes,
and at one stage in our history
most of it did so. Savings now,
however, come also from salaries and
wages via the banking system and
from taxation. The taxing authori-
ties, in fact, use part of the tax
proceeds for capital goods and
buildings.
It is pointed out that _ investors
are unlikely to invest their savings
in capital goods necessary to achieve
social and economic progress if the
burdens on industry are so great as
to prevent profits being made....
We are alert to this and have con-
sidered fully the significance of
lowered interest-rates, increasing
use of national credit and national
savings for capital development, and
the independence the community
feels of them by reason of its bank-
ing activity and its war-time experi-
ence. The order we make will not,
we are confident, jeopardise in any
reasonable future the community’s
capacity to make adequate savings.
Rising prices were regarded in
advance as a good thing in
general, even though rising in-
comes were the reflection of
high overseas prices for our
goods. To those who remained
unconvinced that rising prices
would be a blessing, the court
had some reassurances:
Dr. Coombs indicated that an in-
crease of costs to rural industries
was called for in present circum-
stances. He referred particularly to
the necessity of putting a brake
upon rising land-values _ and
dampening down boom conditions.
Mr. Brown wrote in supplementary
evidence: “Under present circum-
stances the effective factors limit-
ing redistribution of real income
are the pressure of rising prices on
fixed incomes and the psychological
reactions to a too-rapidly rising
price-level.” If these are the limit-
ing factors, then the economy, we
are satisfied, will have little to fear
on either of these scores from the
court’s decisions. The price-rise
will not be psychologically disturb-
ing and fixed incomes, though
heavily affected, will not be catastro-
phically so and can be readily pro-
tected as we have Indicated [i.e., by
adjustment of taxation].
The [long] duration of this case
....has provided a period in which
assumptions and estimates of experts
were able to be checked by later and
fuller statistics, and to establish
habits and controls which have en-
abled us to prevent a possibly
dangerous inflation, and so to re-
duce to safe proportions any infla-
tionary effects which will follow
from the Implementation of a 40-
hour week.... The pressure is not
now to be feared even if added to
by such effects as will flow from
this decision.
Lastly, in case everything
should not be lovely in the gar-
den after all, there is this definite
assurance given to the parties in
the case and to the public:
One comfort remains: that is, if
experience shows that we have
erred, and contrary to our best
judgment the economy does suffer,
or if because of unforeseen world
conditions unanticipated results
threaten us, then the court can take
such necessary steps as will best
protect and preserve our com-
munity against any such untoward
possibilities. V


Incorporated in Victoria in I S7t
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 74 years
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Be- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1945 ■: I 5!’ 26 , 8 •£&- 188,600 1 9,658 949,313
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J
1946.. 156,026 8 p.c. = 138,600 7 ...
Staff fund. £5OOO .. .. | 12,426 961,739
1947.. 158,973 8 p.c. = 138,600 7 077119
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J 15,373 977,112
1948.. 149,164 8 p.c. = 138,600 \
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. J 5,564 982,676
1949.. 150,107 8 p.o. = 138,600 7 ...» 98 0
Staff fund, £5OOO .. ..j 5,507 989,183
1950.. 156,879 8 p.c. = 138,600 7 109701000462
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. f 13,279 1,002,453
Share premiums, £99,512 .. .. 1,101,974
1951 A; ol,?An = 142,065 I 929 1,102,903
Staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j
Share premiums, £62,910 .. .. 1,165,813
1952.. 80,366 4 p.c. = 77,674 2,692 1,168.505
Share premiums, £54,140 .. .. 1,222,645
1953.. 185,950 8 p.c. = 165,743 20,207 1,242.862
Staff fund, £lO,OOO 1,232,852
The recovery in net earnings and lift
in the div. to 8 p.c, again fitted in pretty
well with the anticipations of the market,
which lengthened its bids for the f.-p.
16s. shares by halting steps from 225. a
year ago to 295. 3d. on August 20 last.
The figure has since eased to 28s, 3d.,
giving an immediate return of 4.5 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for 5.6 p.c. on his money counts
on the distribution reaching 10 p.c.
and /or other benefits. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is 255. 6d.
The collapse of earnings and cut in the
div. in 1952 were mainly the outcome of
the time-lag between lifts in the con-
trolled selling-price of beer and rises in
wage, raw-material and other operating
costs. The two small increases in selling-
price granted to F S. Wales brewers, one
at the beginning and the other at the end
of 1951, were not enough, and a further
3d., making the wholesale price of bulk
beer 9s. per gallon, was added on
Nov. 1, 1952. To meet additional
increases in raw-material costs, etc., since
then, another lift in selling-price (amount
undisclosed) was recently asked for, and
a decision is awaited.
Tooheys owns about 14 p.c. and Tooths
about 35 p.c. of the licensed hotels in
N. S. Wales. A couple of years back the
properties controlled by Tooheys were:
Met- New-
ropolitan. castle. Country. Total.
Freeholds ~ 78 32 106 216
Leaseholds .. 23 7 34 64
Total . . 101 39 140 280
Additions and improvements have been
made since. For the most part they are
operated on the “tied-house” system,
which is the form pompetition takes, there
being no price-cutting in the trade.
Rentals and bonuses vary according to
takings and the length of the lease.
Last term the co.’s output and sales
increased substantially, following addi-
tions and improvements to plant and
retail interests. And, since demand con-
tinues to run ahead of production, plant
is to be further expanded. After allow-
ing £82,345 (up £41,183) for depreciation
and unstated amounts for taxation and
other contingencies, the board wrote net
earnings £105,584 stronger at £185,950,
That was 8.9 p.c. on average capital
compared with 4.1, 8.3, 9, 8.6, 8.6 and
9.1 p.c. back to 1947.
On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s profit was
a moderate 5.6 p.c. Those on the
register have never failed to receive
a div. since the present co. took over the
business in 1902, though the rate has
mostly been moderate, the average for the
last 20 years being approximately 8 p.c.
Owing to a change in the method of
presenting the accounts, balance-sheet
figures prior to 1952 are not comparable
with those of the last two years, which
give a much better picture of the business
than formerly:
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £1,992,375 £2,079,000
Mortgage . . .. 100,836
Creditors .. .. 691,739 692,471
Subsidiary .. .. 813,084 815,956
Tax provision* .. 160,665 287,687
Staff, funds .. ~ 10,000
Final div 39,559 83,160
Brewery—
Property ~ .. 371,575 415,872
Plant .. .. 293,207 431,481
Hotels .. ~ 2,642,608 2,703.873
Shareholdings .. 40,777 40,777
Subsidiaries .. .. 191,496 146,892
Stock 464,065 470,016
Debtors .. .. 856,174 1,086,821
Cash, etc 6,030 6,230
* Includes “provisions” for repairs, suspense items,
and contingencies.
Expansion has been the keynote of acti-
vities over the last few years. Since 1950
£677,261 net has been added to the book-
value of fixed assets (brewery-property
and -plant and hotels), £354,249 to book-
debts and £232,930 to stocks ; all of which
is encouraging so far as future earnings
is concerned. To meet the outlay share-
holders put up £563,062 in capital
(£346,500) and share-premiums (£216,562),
£100,836 was raised on mortgage and
£579,775 was added to the amount coming
to creditors, etc. —the etcetera being tax
and other provisions.
The finance subsidiary, Tooheys
Standard Securities, Ltd. —in which
the public owns the pref. capital
(£750,000 5i p.c.) and the parent
49,979 £1 ords. paid to £12,500 —had
£815,956 on loan to the parent at July 31
last. The board doesn’t say what addi-
tional funds will be required to see the
present programme of expansion and
renovation of hotel properties to com-
pletion, nor is any hint given as to how
it proposes to finance the outlay.
A better showing at next balance looks
bright enough at the moment. The Royal
visit, high level of employment and strong
national income favor free spending,
while substantial saving will result from
the cut in co. taxation, and abolition of
quarterly basic-wage adjustments should
help steady costs.
Fanner and Co., Ltd* (Sydney)
f Dividends
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 114,902 12,000 28,000 40,000 7 c , ftcoo
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. j 510,683
From inner reserves, £272,640 .. 783,323
From tax provision, £37,100 ..'
War damage receipts, £3316
1948.. 210,844+ 12,000 28,000 40,000 1 869.583
To staff fund, £ 10,000 ..
To stock reserve, £75,000
1949.. 189,790 12,000 28,000 40,000'
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. • 919,378
To staff fund, £lO,OOO ..
1950.. 217,928 12,000 28,000 40,000 ,
To staff fund, £lO.OOO .. } 1,047,301
From tax reserve, £4458 .. 1,051,759
1951.. 244,887 12,000 28,000 40,0001
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. .. 11,156,646
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. J
From tax reserve, £20,330 .. 1,176.976
1952.. 100,728 12,000 28,000 40,000 7 , , n .
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. .. f
From stock reserve, £150,000 .. 1,337,704
From tax reserve, £3226 .. 1,340,930
Profit sale shares, £317 .. .. 1,341,247
1953.. 204,161 12,000 28,000 40,000 1,465,408
To staff fund, £12,000 .. .. 1,453,408
t Leap in net earnings due largely to change in
method of presenting the accounts.
The remarkable recovery of £103,433 in
the latest declared net earnings of this
big and fashionable department store—
it specialises in quality goods and occu-
pies the entire end of one of the busiest
blocks in the city—was due to a com-
bination of fortuitous circumstances,
good management and a strong, well-
balanced and flexible financial structure.
Among other things, it all means good
buying, a tight hold upon controllable
outgoings, and a conservatively-valued
inventory.
To get the picture into perspective it
should be remembered that the 1951
profit marked the peak of the post-war
boom. The abrupt contraction of nearly
59 p.c. (£144,159) in the 1952 figure
was brought about by the balance-of-
payments crisis and swing from a sellers’
to a buyers’ market, together with a
scramble for liquidity, squeeze of profit-
margins, sharpening of competition and
sundry other trading difficulties which
followed.
Last term opened with turnover
in the Sydney retail trade sluggish
and about 15 p.c. below the level of
July, 1951; it ended with sales 9.3 p.c.
above the June, 1952, level, thanks largely
to the growth in the national income,
following a bigger wool cheque, and
relatively small amount of unemployment.
Wholesale-prices held well, while retail-
prices edged up with the continued rise
in wage and other costs, albeit at a
reduced rate. At the same time legis-
lative restrictions reduced imports of
apparel for the year to June last (£3.5
million) by over 82 p.c. This happy
combination of events provided a welcome
breathing-space during which retailers
were able to work down swollen inven-
tories without mishap and generally to
trim sail to the altered outlook.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its own turn-
over, but its trading profit, etc., shot up
by £201,101, or over 92 p.c.—some of
the increase might have been due to
the conservative value at which stocks
were taken into account when the books
closed in 1952:
1952, 1953.
Trading profit, etc £217,602 £418,603
Less —
Interest on mortgage .. 18,052 11,159
Depreciation .. .. 24,722 49,283
Tax provision .. .. 79,000 154,000
Net profit , .. 100,728 204,161
After setting aside an extra £24,561 for
depreciation and an additional £75,000
for taxation, the net result was £204,161
(up £103,433), or enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£40,000) and show a juicy 41 p.c.
on the £400,000 of ord. capital as against
19.1, 51.2, 44.4, 37.4 and 50.2 p.c. back
to 1948. The fatness of these ratios also
owes something to (1) the structure of
the £1,000,000 of share-capital, three-
fifths of which is pref. money costing on
the average 6| p.c. and earning more than
its keep, and (2) to the size of free re-
serves (£1,453,408). On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was 8.3 p.c.
Last term free reserves benefited by
transfer of £150,000 from the special
provision against any sudden collapse of
inventory values, reducing the figure to
£200,000, which is deducted from the
already-conservative book-value of stocks
in the published accounts. This can be
taken as a tangible expression of the
board’s opinion of the outlook in this
respect. Still, the div. remained unaltered
at 10 p.c. for the ninth year in succession.
The financial position strengthened:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Mortgages .. 800,000 300,000 250,000
Creditors, etc. 578,680 610,588 267,664
Tax provision 240,000 79,000 154,000
Staff fund .. 73.721 69,765 69,823
Final div. .. 20,000 20.000 20,000
Freehold and
plant .. 1,368,218 1,874,935 1,378,873
Stockf .. 1,276,220 1,184.406 1,032,925
Book debts .. 576,459 456,435 474,484
Cash and in-
vestments.. 148,155 151,281 328,613
t After deducting special reserve £350,000 1951 and
1952, £200,000 1953.
Allowing for the switch in reserves, stocks
were reduced by £301,481. Together with
surplus earnings, etc., this enabled
£242,924 to be slashed off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., £50,000
to be snipped off mortgages, £18,049 to
be added to book-debts, and the holding
of cash and investments to be
strengthened by £177,332. The improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,074,540) was £261,711, and the ratio
of current assets to liabilities (including
the final div. and staff fund) advanced
from 1.8 to 2.4 to one.
Though profit-margins may narrow a
little, prospects of another good showing
at next balance are encouraging, thanks
to the seasonal outlook, continued high
levels of wool-prices and employment, the
Government’s liberal tax-concessions, fur-
ther easing of import-restrictions and
wider spacing of basic-wage adjustments.
At 455. 6d. (425. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 4.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 5.3 p.c. should the distribu-
tion be raised to 12 p.c. The 6 p.c.
first and 7 p.c. second prefs. at 235. and
255. 3d. yield 5.2 p.c. and 5.5 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover is £l2 ss. 4d.
firsts, £5 12s, Bd. seconds and 925. Bd,
ords.
Amalgamated Retailers, Ltd.
Parent Co. Only.
, Dividends N To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£* £ £ £
1944.. 52,676 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 52,618 58 124,378
1945.. 57,569 10 „ 10 „ 52,618 4,951129,329
1946.. 66,660 10 „ 12i „ 62,022 4,638133,967
1947.. 76,668 10 „ 15 „ 71,426 5,242139,209
From tax reserve, £30,000 .. .. 169,209
1948.. 105,007 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 33,581 202,790
Prom bad-debts reserve, £30,000 ~ 232,790
1949.. 114,615 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 43,089 275,879
From bad-debts reserve, £30,000 .. 305,879
1950.. 120,294 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 75,893 44,401 850,280
Revaluation assets, £145,330 .. .. 495,610
Reserves capitalised, £131,662 .. .. 363,948
From stock reserves, £30,000 .. .. 393,948
1951.. 207,482 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 114,188 93,344 487.292
1952.. 188,782 10 „ 15 „ 163,077 25,705 512.997
Debenture issue exes., £17,088 .. 495,909
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Ist. 2nd.
Pref. Pref. Ord.
July, p.c. p.c. p.c.
1953 f. 266,275 10 6 15 181,270 85,005 286,205
* After deducting goodwill, £428,129 at 31/7/’53.
f Thirteen months.
The latest figures are not strictly
comparable with those of previous
years, because (1) they are the consoli-
dated figures of the parent and sub-
sidiaries (shown for the first time), and
(2) they cover a period of 13 months.
Outstanding features of the post-war
history of the group are vigorous growth,
by absorptions and otherwise, and
buoyant earnings. Since the bulk of the
business is now in the retail field, the
parent changed its name from Cash
Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd., to the present
title a year or so ago, following absorp-
tion of Murdoch’s men’s- and boys’-wear
business, near the Town Hall, at a cost of
£700,000 in round figures— exact amount
was not disclosed.
Cash-orders now account for about
7 p.c. of turnover, the balance being fairly
evenly divided between retail sales and
hire-purchase agreements associated with
them. The parent handles cash-orders
and hire-purchase agreements, Murdochs,
whose trading activities have been
widened and premises modernised, now
deals in soft-goods, sporting-goods and
household equipment, etc., and three other
offshoots, in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Queensland, mostly handle furniture and
furnishings.
To finance the Murdoch deal and
provide for further expansion £1,100,000
of 4i p.c. debentures, maturing 1966-71,
were issued in July, 1951- To meet con-
tinued growth 250,000 new £1 6 p.c.
redeemable prefs. and 411,443 new
12s. ords. were issued at par in March,
1953 —the prefs. were taken by the
Mutual Life and Citizens, and are
redeemable at the rate of £12,500 p.a.
from March, 1958. Issued capital was
thus raised to £1,634,330 in 150,000
10 p.c, and 250,000 6 p.c. prefs., all of
£1 each, and 2,057,216 ords. of 12s. each
at July 31 last —there was then £249,937
still to come on the new scrip. Since
1950 £1,108,153 has been added to issued
share capital, of which £131,663 was
bonus scrip and the balance cash.
Turnover of the group last term
increased by £l} million, reaching £lli
million, and the improvement, which was
most marked during the last half of the
period, has continued since the close of
accounts. None of the subsidiaries, for
which individual figures are not available,
traded at a loss. After allowing £17,939
for depreciation and unstated amounts for
taxation (at the old rates) and other con-
tingencies, combined net earnings were
put at £266,275 (£245,792 on an annual
basis), which covered the pref. divs. and
22.8 p.c. on average ord. capital. The
div. was maintained at 15 p.c. for the
seventh year in succession, making the


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERYL MAY SIMPSON late of Euaba-
long West. —TAKE NOTICE that RONALD
SIMPSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 364 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of Decem-
ber 1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HENRY AVERY late of
Oatley.—TAKE NOTICE that MAROELLE
AVERY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3445 of 1953 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of Decem-
ber 1963 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MADDOCKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN SYLVESTER O’DONNELL (also
known as John Sylvester Lewis) late of
228 East Street Rockhampton Queensland.
—TAKE NOTICE that RENE ROSE
O’DONNELL has filed a Petition for Di-
vorce No. 1452 of 1952 on the grounds of
your desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 15th December
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from HILLIARD &
BERRY, Solicitors, 17 Oastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
fitter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
jACKSOiy a
o'suuutvan
mwa v
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* ♦ ♦ *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
!*■■■
fun
Mui
»u
Ulu
Uui
Every Year
a Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Biigh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO -DAY’S PROTECTION TO-MORROWS SECURITY
Concentration.
g*»i &rii 'Vw^
-r^mm:-
> 1 s, s v > fi * '- i
v vt *° , >'> ■% i "At' „ v ” *
7xX A\
r >\ . •..•• •-' \
—\ \ >^^ShSP'-'N
s?sB®L. mi IW Vwvv/ \ \
ws.w& WMM£M
/V ■
II
/ rIX a/
B»i
* •
!~ri'
m
TIIu»
.
li«n
iiii il
n
... on
communicatior
AT MOST AIRFIELDS the pilot
does not have to give advance warn-
ing of his fuel requirements, for a
green and yellow fueller of BP
Aviation Service will be ready to
meet him. But at some lonely air-
fields in the hills or desert conditions
have not changed much since
supplies of BP gasoline were specially
laid down for Alan Cobham’s
pioneering survey flight from London
to Capetown in 1925.
At such places the pilot must state
his requirements. While he is still
in the air a signal will have to be
sent so that, on his arrival, his needs
will be met with the same courtesy
and attention that he has come to
expect at larger airfields.
SERVICE X
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
C Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
8/853
average distribution over the last
18 years a shade over 14 p.c.
The £85,005 of the year’s profit
that remained lifted reserves
£286,205 in excess of intangibles
(£428,129), which are not treated
as an asset herein.
The big shifts in balance-sheet
figures are due primarily to the
consolidation of accounts, and
partly to introduction of
£246,929 of fresh share capital,
to what looks like a substantial
increase in the overdraft and to
general expansion of business:
CONSOUI-
Pabent’s dated
Figures. Figures.
1952. 1953.
£ £
Paid capital .. 1,137,464 1.384,393
Outside interests 52,212
Debentures .. 1,100,000 1 2 459 802
Overdraft /.. J ’ ’
Creditors* .. 1,079,009 1,229,841
Final divs. ~ 81,560 99,710
Freeholds .. 13,309 1,320,795
Equipment .. 62,702 184,609
Deb. redemption
investments . . . 11,003 44,451
Shares subsids. .. 919,326
Shades other cos: 46,126 76,778
Stock .. .. 478,405 970,977
Book debts . . 2,327,173 2,905,656
Cash, etc. .. 35,898 18,897
* Includes provisions for taxation and
contingencies.
Freeholds include the Murdoch
property, in at £579,000, of
which the land alone is rated at
£250,000, and estimated replace-
ment cost of the building is over
£1,000,000, the chairman says.
Book-debts, equal to over 69 p.c.
of the tangible assets, are mainly
short- to medium-term contracts,
free of deadwood and protected
by an undisclosed inner reserve.
Still, when the books closed,
there was 38s. 6d. belonging to
debenture-holders, the bank and
sundry creditors, etc., in the busi-
ness for every £1 of net tangible
assets owned by shareholders,
including uncalled capital.
As the books were ruled off
96 p.c. of the ord. capital in
Stones (Holdings), Ltd., Sydney
furniture - retailers and re-
movalists, was bought for
£117,5834 of which £83,988 was
cash and the balance f.-p. 12s.
shares. Stones’ paid capital was
£175,812 in 30,000 £1 8 p.c.
prefs. and 583,250 ords. of ss.
each. The deal will be reflected
in Amalgamated’s next accounts.
The co. has also received
Capital Issues consent to accept
up to £1,000,000 of call
deposits at rates ranging from
3i p.c. for three months to 6 p.c.
for five years. That pushes inro
the background prospects of
new share-issues for the time
being.
At 265. 7d, (225. Bd. a year
ago) the parent’s f.-p. 12s. ords.
return 6.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis, and there is nothing in
sight at the moment to suggest
that the rate of distribution is
likely to be interfered with. The
£1 10 p.c. prefs. at 28s. 6d. yield
7 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£l2 16s. first prefs. and 14s. 9d.
ords. The second 6 p.c. prefs.
are not, listed.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L.
This tin- and wolfram-mine on
the slopes of Ben Lomond (Tas.)
is the richest of its kind in Aus-
tralia, and has been a wonderful
money-spinner over the last few
years. Since formation at the end
of 1926, the co. (paid capital
£62,500 in Is, shares) has paid
divs. totalling no less than
£1,512,266, of which £1,118,750
was handed out since the close
of accounts in 1951, thanks to
the rocketing of tin and wolfram
prices.
The tin concentrates are sold
locally, and the wolfram concen-
trates, offered in world markets
until Nov., 1951, have been since
taken by the U.K. Government
and B.H.P. under a four-year
contract (it runs out in Nov.,
1955) at world prices, with a
“satisfactory” floor in the U.K.
agreement which is ijow . well
above open-market level.
The local controlled-price of
tin was fixed at £lOOO a ton prior
to April 30, 1952. The figure
was then lifted to £llOO, and
remained steady until April 17,
1953, when control was discon-
tinued. For the 2\ months to
June 30 realisations on the open
market were within the £B9B-
- price-bracket, which con-
tracted to £773-£698 for the fol-
lowing 2\ months. The London
average price per unit for
wolfram, which averaged
£S26 Bs. for 1951 and
£S23 Is. 2d. for 1952, had
dropped to £SI2 18s. for Aug.,
1953, Australian tin-producers
have had a raw deal from the
Government, as has been pointed
out in these columns.
Owing to a fall in metal
prices, the co. earned £60,255
less profit last term, despite a
bigger crushing of ore, better
outturn of tin and wolfram con-
centrates, and drop of approx.
20s. a ton in costs (£l2 Bs. 2d.
per ton):
Year, June 80, 1951. 1952. 1953-
Ore milled, tons 33,228 36,784 44,847
Concentrates—•
Tin, tons .. 451.48 458.58 580.60
Wolfram, tons 143.30 172.56 212.58
Flue dust, tons 148.42 220.39 235.81
Net profit, £.. 375,563 537,621 477,366
Dividend, p.c. .. 440 725 625
„ amount, £ 275,000 453,125 390,625
Still, the £477,366 of profit was
763 p.c. on capital as against
860 p.c. for the previous term.
The div. was lowered Trom 7.255.
to 6.255. per share, or from
725 p.c. to 625 p.c.
Pay-ore reserves at June 30
were put at 287,301 tons (up
13,495 tons), and lie mainly be-
tween No. 5 and No. 8 levels.
Development of No. 9 level dur-
ing the current term should
further increase the tonnage, and
a new ore-vein has been met
with 66ft. lower down. The
main shaft, now down 1085 ft., is
to be deepened to 1380 ft.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £434,511, of which
£62,544 was stores, and current
liabilities £330,962.
Chiefly because of the fall in
the price of tin, and probable
lower average return from
wolfram, the market now prices
the Is. shares art; 275. 9d. as
against 425. a year ago.
Broken Hill South and its sub-
sidiary, Barrier Central Pty.,
have announced combined net
earnings of £1,462,011 for the
year to June 30, which is only
£14,338 less than the figure
claimed for the previous year,
despite the fall in overseas prices
for both lead and zinc. App§r-
ently the lift in the locally-
controlled price for both metals
from £A6S to £A9S per ton from
Sept. 5, 1952, together with the
drop hi the lead-bonus payable
to employees, and cut in CO.
taxation, offset the effects of the
weakness in overseas markets.
For the year to June 30 last the
Londoll P rice of lead dro PPed
from £8161.5 to £5132.7’ per
ton, and for zinc from £SI6O
to £S 136 per ton. The £1,462,011
of profit was equal to 182.5 p*.
on capital, or 9s. Id. per ss.
share. The div was lowered
from Bs. (160 p.c.) to 6s. (120
p.c.) per share, the final 3s. of
which is to be sent out on Dec.
9. The price of the scrip, which
has fluctuated between 60s. 3d.
and 51s. 6d. since the beginning
of 1953, stood at 595. 7d. last
week.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Those who can take their existentialism
only in small doses will like the two
short Sartre plays presented by the Play-
bill Company at the Metropolitan
Theatre last week and also for this week-
end. The main one, “In Camera,” won
the company prizes (from 34 competi-
tors) at the recent British Drama League
Festival for the best production, the best
diction and the best actress (Beverley
Harte). It is certainly an excellent per-
formance of two strange and interesting,
if not exactly palatable, plays,
* ☆ ☆
Two shining days for the Epsom and
the Metropolitan gave Sydney’s race-
goers a first-class opportunity to show off
spring fashions, and very tasteful and
elegant they were, though not exactly
colorful. One couldn’t help recalling
that some years back the spring meeting
would bring out a crop of dresses in
apple-green and buttercup, dusty-pink,
ice-blue, lilac and rose. Today the colors
are all subdued, neutral or understated.
Grey, black, navy-blue,^cocoa, cinna-
mon, bronze and white afe almost uni-
versal, with the former florals replaced by
fine abstract designs on pale colors.
The springlike touch at this meeting
was supplied by the multitude of little
white hats (worn by four out of five
women present). Many of these —
although they were in the 16gns. class —
were duplicated, and one was repeated at
least seven times. Other hats worn were
wide platters (Mrs. D. Kippel had an
attractive one in white eyelash-straw with
a grey shantung dress) and mushroom-
shapes often swathed with organdie or
chiffon. Miss Joy Flower wore the most
original hat, an American mushroom- 1
shape of natural ballibuntal lined with
Peru- (formerly “shocking”-) pink. A
smart color combination was black with
cinnamon, worn by Mrs. Rex Money in
a black-linen sheath-gown with a wide
cinnamon hat.
The toppers and morning-suits worn
by a fair percentage of the men cer-
tainly lent “tone” to the meeting, and
good taste replaced dash and originality
throughout the picture. Only a few
women shortened their skirts, and then
only by a conservative inch or so. "Mrs.
Lennox Bode’s short suit in cocoa with
a cocoa mushroom hat was one of the
smartest outfits seen. Mrs. Noel Vincent
wore one of the many full-length coats
in ottoman-silk. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
wore a Paris-model suit of black alpaca
with a square-cut bolero and tiny black
hat. Mrs. Dick Allen carried a large
white bag patterned in black with her
black suit and white hat.
Altogether, one gained the impression
that Sydney women were playing safe
in their fashions this spring and summer,
carefully subduing any inclination to
whimsy that might rear its dangerous
head. They succeed in looking almost
uniformly right. The Queen, no doubt,
will have no fault to find with them.
☆ ☆ ■&
There were representatives from all
Sydney’s social-services organisations at
the reception given Miss Lilace Barnes,
World President of Y.W.C.A., on Thurs-
day. Miss Barnes, a charming person-
ality and a fluent speaker, pinned a spray
of orchids to her black dress and topped
it off with a tiny hat composed of blue
cornflowers. She spoke of the work
that the “Y” is doing in Japan, where the
old way of life has gone and teachers
must be trained for the new; in Greece,
where, she said, the individual sense of
freedom has a divisive rather than a
combining force; on the Gold Coast in
Africa, where there is the problem again
of linking yesterday and tomorrow; and
in Korea, where thousands of homeless,
hungry people must be cared for. Mrs.
C. P. Johnson, president of Sydney “Y,”
welcomed the guests and Mrs. Neville
Harding proposed a vote of thanks.
☆ ☆ ☆
Which accent was to blame for this —
Australian or English? In a country res-
taurant the other day an Englishman
tried to get the attention of a passing
waitress with “Could I?” but she
passed on with an airy “Good-day,”
thinking apparently he had said the same.
Immediately under the shelf labelled
“Domestic Animals” at the Randwick
Municipal Library is a book called The
Man in the Kitchen. Now, is that tactful?
☆ ☆ ☆
The Archbishop of Sydney, the Right
Rev. Dr. H. Mowll, was guest-of-honor
at the Overseas Club’s luncheon during
the week, when he spoke on his impres-
sions of London during Coronation week.
Mrs. Mowll was also to have been a
guest, but she was a flu victim. The
Archbishop’s hearers could have listened
to him for another hour.
From his seat in the Abbey, only 10
feet from where the Queen was crowned,
his Grace could make close examination
of every detail of the impressive organi-
sation, how the photographs were taken
noiselessly behind plate-glass, how the
tiny microphones were unobtrusively re-
moved by clergy at different parts of the
ceremony, and how, when the Queen
entered, enormous lights were turned on to
the golden carpet in the centre of the
Abbey so that she was seen as if it were
in the full sunlight of a bright summer
day.
His Grace also explained that the little
interlude of maids sweeping the carpet
before the Queen’s entrance was intro-
duced, not because the carpet might be
dirty, but because it is an old custom,
and he added that shortly afterwards there
was a protest in the daily papers from
the Westminster Union of Charwomen,
who complained because they had not
been given the contract. *
Barbara Ann, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Handford, of Mosman, who
has started her nursing training at the
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, was,
according to her mother, authoress
Nourma Handford, the inspiration for
much of the copy for the Carcoola novels
for girls, of which the latest book, “Car-
coola Holiday,” will make its debut at
the Newcastle Book Festival on October
15. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The response to the formation of the
Sydney University Arts Association has
been eager and enthusiastic, to judge
from the large gathering at the inaugural
meeting in the Great Hall last week.
Chancellor of the University Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn said that with the
stupendous advances of science the arts
seemed to be going into the discard, and
something must be done to bring them
out from the slough of despond. The
speaker for the evening, Major-General
W. J. Windeyer, whose grandfather was
the first graduate from Sydney Univer-
sity, pointed out the danger of even the
schools concentrating on subjects that
would be of value in training for pro-
fessions rather than on the arts.
Mr. R. J, F. Boyer said that few times
have been so antipathetic to the humani-
ties as the days in which we are living.
Professor R. Farrell, president of the
association, announced that the Governor,
Sir John Northcott, had consented to be
patron, and that Professor lan Maxwell,
Professor of English at Melbourne Uni-
versity, would give the first lecture in
the Ferguson Hall, Macquarie-street, on
October 28. This association, founded
mainly to foster the study of the arts,
should prove very valuable to a city like
Sydney, where it is not impossible to
find leading schools which do not think
history a subject necessary to the curricu-
lum.
MELBOURNE
Although there was glorious sunshine
and a warm breeze, women mostly played
safe at Flemington on Saturday and wore
tailored suits, adding the spring touch
with small white straw hats. Mrs. Vernon
Crisp, of Hobart, wore a matchbox-suit
of black-and-white-flecked tweed and a
•tiny black cloche. Mrs. J. D. Jacobs
had a matching hat for her navy suit;
her sister, Mrs. J. H. Hooper, from
Baltimore (U.S.A.), chose grey alpaca for
her outfit and topped it with a black
beret. A gold-studded brown leather
belt was the only contrast on the tailored
beige frock Mrs. Gordon Darling wore
with her small matching boater trimmed
with swathes of chiffon.
Mrs. John Poolman wore with her
light-blue-and-white-flecked tweed suit a
white hat. Mrs. L. R. Buxton and Mrs.
Maurice Sallman were both in black suits
and tiny white straw hats. With her
black frock Mrs. lan Miller wore a
mushroom-brimmed hat of white straw
trimmed with black velvet. Lady
Blarney’s black faille coat had short, full
sleeves and a wide skirt; her platter-hat
was of white straw. Lady Robinson’s
coat was of black velvet, her turban of
black satin. A silver-grey tweed coat-
frock and small black beret were the
choice of Mrs, Robert Manifold ; Mrs.
H. J. Buchanan’s suit of rust-toned wool
had a finely-pleated skirt.
Elizabeth Simpson’s deep-nigger-brown
velvet coat-frock had mink cuffing the
short sleeves and gold buttons on the
bodice. Mrs. Fred Dennett’s white
boater trimmed with white daisies was
worn with a black suit. A rose-pink
pillbox beret spotted in white was worn
by Mrs. Con Curtain with a white-and-
biack-flecked suit. ;
☆ ☆ ☆
For her marriage at Christ Church,
Berwick, Diana, only daughter of Sir
John and Lady Medley, wore a strap-
less gown of palest-pink brocade with a
matching long-sleeved jacket. Mrs. J. D.
Whittington lent the fingertip pink tulle
veil which was held with a plait of
brocade. The bouquet was of pale-pink
hyacinths. Gwen Carroll, the brides-
maid, wore an ice-blue brocade frock,
strapless and full-skirted, with a match-
ing short-sleeved jacket. A half-circlet of
parma violets was worn on her hair, and
her bouquet was of the same fragrant
flowers. Best man was lan Sprague.
Reception was at the home of the
bride’s parents, Lady Medley receiving
the guests in an azure-blue long-sleeved
French crepe frock and tiny white straw
beret which had trimmings of navy-blue
motifs. Mrs. Hall, mother of the ’groom,
Barry Hall, wore junior-navy crepe with
the coat finished with white lapels; her
matching blue straw hat carried white
flowers and was swathed with veiling.
☆ * *
Mrs. W, K. Burnside is chairman of
the organising committee for the “Gown
of the Year” parade which will be held
at the Hotel Australia on October 13.
Dinner will be served at 6.30, and this
will be followed by the parade of models
of gowns by Florence Raymond (Dubarri
models). A supper-dance will top off
the doings. Tickets (three guineas each)
are available from Mrs. Felix Harber
(WF3514) and Mrs. G. Nisbet (WM4909).
Lady Angliss is patroness.
* ☆ ☆
Inter-State and country people in town
for the racing carnival are reminded that
the Derby Eve Bail will be held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. lan Miller, Glen-
ferrie-road, Toorak. Tickets are obtain-
able from Mrs. Paul Grage, Tintern-
avenue, Toorak, Proceeds go to the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the party given by U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins and his wife
at their South Yarra home to introduce
the recently-arrived U.S. Consul, Givon
Parsons, and Mrs. Parsons, the hostess
received the 150 guests wearing a baya-
dere-printed silk frock in beige, black
and white. Mrs. Parsons chose a black
frock and bolero of taffeta embroidered
with jet. Among the many distinguished
guests were the Chief of the General
Staff, Lieut-General Sir Sydney Rowell,
and Lady Rowell, the First Naval Mem-
ber, Sir John Collins, Air-Marshal Sir
Donald Hardman and Lady Hardman
(she most attractive in a dove-grey silk
ensemble and matching hat), Air-Vice-
Marshal J. E. Hewitt and Mrs. Hewitt
—whose frock was of bronze-shot taffeta
—Sir John and Lady Latham and Sir
Leslie and Lady McConnan.
Mrs. Essington Lewis draped a grey-
squirrel stole over her black frock ; Mrs.
Rupert Downes wore a hat of deep-pink
roses, also with black frock. Mrs. Gerald
Bacon wore an all-grey outfit, Mrs.
Frank Callahan a silver-blue mink
jacket, black frock and sequin-trimmed
black-velvet hat. Mrs. Harry Cavanaugh’s
suit was of midnight-blue self-spotted
taffeta. Lady Brookes’s Chantilly laces
were in burgundy toning. Under a black
redingote Mrs. Charles Burge wore a
powder-blue frock.
Mrs. Philip Dare, one of Melbourne’s
top designers of suits and coats, has just
returned from a three-months overseas
trip. She reports that jet and braid have
been replaced by rhinestones, crystals and
pearls on all woollens, including tweeds.
The latest worsteds have a sheen, and
suits are trimmed with diamente buttons.
French suits have unusual collar-lines,
the most attractive being the monk’s-cowl
neckline, which buttons at the back. In
Paris every suit was matched by a top-
coat; frocks very slim, coats very full.
Mrs. Dare has now started to prepare
her collection for the next season.
Hats for the race carnival and Royal
tour were shown by Ann Austin at the
Australia in a parade for the St. Vincent’s
Hospital Building Appeal. Unusual and
chic, they included hand-woven Italian
straws, pure silks, embroidered gauze and
organza. There were zebra-striped and
leopard-spotted felts for casual wear.
New colors are sand, a neutral shade,
which lends itself to brilliant trimmings;
cognac, frequently used with black and
white; and Florentine-pink, a most be-
coming shade. The newest line is the
“cuffia,” by Biancoloni, of Florence, and
looks for all the world like an upside-
down sugar-scoop. The beret is still
popular; there is a new platter-beret,
copied from Jacques Path, which comes
well down over the forehead, as do the
coolie hats designed by Christian Dior in
coarse Italian straw.
All hats, large or small, are worn
straight, with a forward tilt over the
forehead. One of the most charming
models, a white satin pillbox for late-
afternoon parties,' was trimmed with
black scrolls and quills of silk braid.
Florentine-pink straw, swathed with
matching organza dotted in white,
fashioned a cuffia hat. The Dior-inspired
coolie-hat of Italian straw was trimmed
with a band of sand-colored velvet sewn
with polished shells. Beads, jewels,
grapes and roses are popular trimmings.
One American model of pale-pink
straw had a coronet of upstanding silk
roses set across the crown. Unusual was a
beret on the lines of a Venetian noble-
man’s cap. It was of black velvet with
a Florentine-pink crown and trimmed
with gold beads. Black beads were
heavily encrusted on a hat of white
shantung-straw, whilst a pink ballibuntal-
straw hat had one large pink rose
dangling at one side of the face.
Noticed at the parade were Mrs. Max
Burney, who wore with her mink coat a
small natural-straw hat banded with
brown and beige ribbon; Mrs. Ray
Hennessey in small white ostrich-feather
platter-hat and a black suit; Mrs. L. C.
Burne, whose black velvet platter-hat was
swathed in fine black veiling; and Mrs.
A. Athorne, who wore with her black
shawl-collared coat a small red-straw hat


m
VISIT
CAIRNS CAMERA
CENTRE
We shall be pleased to advise and supply you with
your new camera. We stock all makes and types of
and photographic accessories for the
cameras
amateur and professional.
All goods are available on lay-by or
special easy terms. No interest
charged if paid off in three months.
We send C.O.D.
SPBCIAE SAME DAY DEVELOP-
ING AND PRINTING SERVICE
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building:,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
g
Three steps to
personal peace
Most of us don’t realize bow
accelerated the rate of our
lives has become, or the speed
at which we are driving our-
selves. Is there a way to slow
down modern living’s destruc-
tive tempo?
In October Reader’s Digest
Dr. Norman Vincent Peale
gives you his formula for per-
sonal peace. He tells the three
steps he calmly takes each day
to counteract the increasing
pressures of everyday life.
Also in Reader’s Digest,
“How to live on what you
make,” “The story of Syngman
Rhee,” and 29 other stimulat-
ing articles condensed from
world’s leading magazines and
best-selling books. On sale now
—l/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get your copy today.
Divorce Notices
IN the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTE EPHRAIM HEBERT late
of 50 Ridge Street Gordon.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS GRACE HEBERT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2908
of 1953 on the ground of your desertion
during 3 years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th day of De-
cember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from STEPHEN
O. TAPERELL & SULLIVAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 284 Pacific Highway,
Hornsby—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WELDINGS late of 21 Throsby
Street Wickham. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOAN WELDINGS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1524 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 11th December 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from H. V. HARRIS WHEELER
and WILLIAMS, Solicitors, Lyndhurst
Chambers, Bolton and King Streets, New-
castle. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WALLACE ARTHUR ASHTON late of
Randwick.—TAKE NOTICE that NORMA
MAY ASHTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3430 of 1953 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of December
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MADDOOKS COHEN
& MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notice
VLADIMIR OHERNICHENKO of Rus-
uan nationality, bom at Shanghai, China,
•esident 6$ years in Australia, now re-
dding at 60 Veron Street, Wentworthville,
S W., intend to apply for naturalisation
iiider the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
L 948-52.
Rufioi Btiaktest IHumt <to
Hhch
Here’s a novel new
radio quiz, based on
your musical favorites,
with Wilbur Kentwell
and Glenn Marks to
play them and a talented
guest artist to sing them.
And there’s easy money
to be won, too, by both
contestants AND listen-
ers. Make a date to
listen this week via your
member station of the
Macquarie Broadcasting
Service.
GEORGE FOSTER
AUNT JENNY
m
j
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The Macquarie Broadcasting Service
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
George Finey
In Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
Pakies Cluty has reopened with
a kind of cheerful explosion, the
cause being artist George Finey,
samples of whose work adorn the
walls of the establishment. In
characteristically irrepressible
fashion, Mr. Finey contrives to
attach plastic tube, rubber, hose-
pipe and other odds and ends to
wire-netting and —quite justi-
fiably—titles it “Sir Arthur.”
With similar materials, plus a
broken cup-handle and the tops
of a few tins, he produces “Sir
William Slim.” There are
similar comments on Lady Slim,
Sir Edmund Hillary and Mr.
Winsor, the N. S. Wales Com-
missioner for Railways.
Near by hang five pencil-draw-
ings of assorted fiddles —-some
like snakes, some like skeletons
and some like fat old men —
titled “Chorus for Strings,”
“Dirge for Strings,” “Finis for
Strings,” etc., and making alto-
gether quite a fascinating
symphony for strings.
Mr. Finey’s paintings include
“Sunset,” a gargantuan red
ogre about to swallow the sun;
“Roast,” a leaping swirl of red
against a black ground; “Beach-
comber,” “Sea Snails” and
“Carnival,” all of which have to
do with some kind of marine life
which, judging by their bulbous
noses and bibulous dials, live on
something stronger than sea-
water ; and sundry other delight-
ful items such as “Black Bun-
yips” and “Patchwork Python.”
The most imposing painting on
the walls is “Bush Fire,” a
shadowy impression of bays
and headlands flecked with red
and picked out with a leaping,
dancing fringe of yellow flame.
That flame is probably typical
of Finey’s brush —leaping and
dancing with irrepressible vigpr
around whatever it touches. One
very serious young woman view-
ing the exhibition asked a
solemnly dignified spectator:
“It’s very clever, but is it Art?”
With a remarkable depth of
feeling he replied, “No, madame;
it’s Finey—thank Heavens.”
Leonard Long
Most of the artists in the Syd-
ney Group’s exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery are apparently
endeavoring to paint what they
“see” or what they “feel” about
one subject or another, and the
results, in most cases, suggest dis-
torted vision or incredibly mixed
feelings. There are no such com-
plications about the paintings of
Leonard Long, at the Grosvenor
Galleries, Sydney, although he,
too, could fairly claim to be
painting what he sees and what
he feels.
In the main. Long sees tranquil
landscapes much as Nature set
them down, though he probably
sees them with a little more dis-
cernment than most people ; and
his feeling for them, as ex-
pressed in his paintings, is, if not
breathless excitement, at least a
calm affection for the lights and
shades and color harmonies of
Nature.
Long’s technical equipment
matches his vision and his feel-
ings. He paints with a calm,
measured consideration, and if,
like many diligent landscape-
painters, he often fails to get his
inspiration across and is left with
the prosaically picturesque, he
just as often captures the moment
of beauty which illuminates such
pointings as “Wet Day (Nowra),”
“Basket Willow,” “Wollondilly
River (Goulburn),” “Grey Day
(Mendooran),” “The Farm
Gate,” “Dingo Creek (Wing-
ham),” “Late Afternoon (Coff’s
Harbor),” “Three Trees (Goul-
bum)” and “Warrurpbungle’s
Pastoral” —a lovely little land-
scape of red ploughed earth, an
ancient gum and full, rich clouds.
♦♦♦
Margaret Preston
Margaret Preston’s paintings
at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney, are mainly forthright simpli-
fications of the subtleties of
nature —flowers and landscapes
reduced from their natural, deli-
cate mystery to bold designs with
overtones of aboriginal art about
them.
Within those limits —as de-
signs, that is they are pleasant
to look upon, gaining a certain
tapestry-like effect from the
coarseness of the painting.
“Angaphora and Banksia,”
“Rock Lily,” “Native Bears,”
“Bush Flowers,” “Banksia in
Jug” and “Tea Tree” are the pick
of the flowerpieces, and “Manly
Pines,” “Rocks in Roper Val-
ley,” “Shoalhaven Gorge,
N.5.W.,” “Near Peats Ferry”
and “Quarry Bay, Middle Har-
bor” the best demonstrations of
this particular approach to land-
scape.
The exhibition has sold out.
Stage and Music
“His Excellency”
“His Excellency,” by Dorothy
and Campbell Christie, is a light
little comedy about what happens
on a British island colony and
naval base when its governorship
—and its riots and labor troubles
—pass from the traditional hands
of the aristocracy to a hustling,
forthright Labor man with a yen
for action and long experience
and knowledge of unions, agi-
tators and workmen.
The Independent Theatre is
treating the piede very hand-
somely at its North Sydney
theatre with a cast which, if not
too good for the play, is at least
good enough for much more sub-
stantial business. Kevin Brennan,
O. D. Bisset, Aileen Britton,
Peter MacDonald, June Salter,
Dacre King' and others walk
through the piece effortlessly;
James Mills’s production is brisk
and to the point, although he
loses the force of the climax by
pulling out all stops too early in
the evening.
“Overruled,” one of Shaw’s
peculiarly sexless discussions on
marital relationships, is a one-
act curtain-raiser. Patricia Lith-
gow, Phillipa Baker, Roy
Morgan and Roger McDougall
talk it out among themselves
easily enough.
$ * ❖
“The Blue Train”
Every weekend until October
24 Canberra Rep. will be pre-
senting a French comedy entitled
“The Blue Train.” No one
seems to know who wrote the
original, called “Cdte d’Azur,’
but Dighton Burbidge has made
a competent job both of trans-
lating and producing it.
The story is the well-worn one
of the telephone-girl who faffs
in love with her boss but is
never noticed by him until she
dresses-up and conceals her
identity after office-hours.
Hugh Murphy as the boss was
brusque and generally convinc-
ing, but his tendency to elide
parts of his dialogue made one
a little too conscious of the
actor’s effort. Elaine Blackman,
as the statry-eyed telephonist,
was very good when the dialogue
was helpful, but she was bur-
dened with some awkward
speeches handled a little too
wistfully for a comedy of this
kind.
F. M. T.
* * ❖
Brisbane Concert
Perry Hart’s performance of
the Beethoven Violin Concerto
with the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra stirred memories of
Szymon Goldberg in the same
work seven years ago. Though
she lacks Goldberg’s serene
authority and the tigerish ap-
proach of a Ginette Neveu, her
playing had many fine moments.
Particularly lovely was her
gracious reintroduction of the
main theme after the energy of
the cadenza.
After this the concert relaxed
in the spring-afternoon atmo-
sphere of Debussy’s “Afternoon
of a Faun,” very deftly played.
Against this a noisy but passion-
less Symphony in C Minor by
Saint-Saens showed up badly. A
complete absence of worth-while
themes was not obscured by the
often-tremendous weight of tone
produced by the addition of duo-
pianists and organ to the usual
orchestra.
The Playbill Company is pre-
senting Sartre’s “The Respect-
able Prostitute” and “In
Camera” at the Metropolitan
Theatre, Sydney. Both plays—
the first about a prostitute who,
to save the face of a white man,
lets a negro be blamed for a
crime he didn’t commit; and
the second about three people
making hell for each other in a
room in Hell —are supposed to
expound Sartre’s conveniently
erratic philosophy, but neither
the philosophy nor the exposi-
tion of it is very clear. Noella
Masson, Beverley Harte and
John Cooper are the most able
players of the evening.
Talkies
“City Beneath the Sea” (Syd-
ney Lyceum); Rather lurid
melodrama about a search for
bullion lying in a sunken ship
in the Caribbean. The banter-
ing style adopted by Robert
Ryan and Anthony Quinn give
the doings a certain attraction,
and the submarine photography
of an earthquake on the sea-floor
is spectacular.
“Split Second” (Sydney Pal-
ace) : There are quite a number
of improbabilities mixed with the
impossibilities in this story of a
party held as by escaped
murderers in a ghost-town in the
Nevada Desert which is due to
be wiped-out in the explosion of
an A-bomb. The best part of
it is in the character-drawing,
and in the tension of the last
few minutes when the criminals
make a dash to get out of the
danger-area. Steven McNally,
Alexis Smith, Jan Sterling and
Keith Andes do the best they
can with the material.


LONDON STORYS
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better !”
:v
m
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better 1 ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better! I
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on i-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives;—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
OUR NEW SELECTION
A Surprise Party
by
"STEELE RUDD"
(Arthur H. Davis)
TlfE saw that changed circum-
** stances had made anew
girl of Sarah. She had an
abundance of leisure time now
and revelled in reading the
“Family Herald” and other in-
tellectual papers ; took a keen
interest in fashions; studied
etiquette hard and wherever she
visited took stock and learnt
things. Norah, teaching in town,
supplied her with much up-to-
date information.
Sarah was never done with
inflicting new ideas upon us.
She would doll Mother up and
parade her round in things that
made the good old soul blush
the whole time she was in them.
And such innovations! She
scrawled “Ruddville” on some
tin and nailed it to the front
gate. She wrote out laboriously
a lot of rules for good manners
and tacked up the list in our
room as a kind of perpetual
warning. She checked Dad for
stirring his tea with a knife and
quarrelled with Joe if he
swigged milk from a jug or
grabbed up the bread and
pitched it to her when she asked
him nicely to pass the plate.
The table, too, was never twice
laid the same way, while pieces
of furniture constantly swapped
corners. Enter the rooms in the
dark and approach the corner
where, in the morning, you had
seen the couch and the chances
were you would wreck the what-
not or tramp on a toy dog or
something. Had Sarah been able
to slew the house round she
would have made it face the
east one day and the backyard
the next.
One New Year’s Eve we had
visitors. Farrell’s wife was at
our place (Farrell, who was the
handed
her over to us while he went to
town to enjoy himself). Miss
Mason, a young lady from
town, was spending the week
with Sarah, And the Rev. Peter
Macfarlane dropped in—but
only for dinner.
Sarah called Joe and Bill
into the kitchen,
“Have some manners today,”
she said to Joe, “and don’t act
as though you had never seen
anyone before. And you”—to
Bill —“you great gawk, be care-
ful and don’t make a fool of
yourself.” v
“We’ll be most p-p’-lite,” Joe
said (he only stuttered occasion-
ally now, and often carried
pebbles in his mouth to cure
himself). And Joe bowed low
to the kitchen wall and inquired
how it did and whether it would
oblige by “p-p-passing the s-s-
--spuds.” But Bill blushed to the
ears. He anticipated a bad time.
Like Dave, Bill abhorred com-
pany. Dave was sullen over
the matter. Bill Was fidgety and
flurried, and his large, lake-like
eyes would roll in their watery
sockets.
We were restless. Dinner was
very late, but when we were
called we forgave Sarah every-
thing, for the table was most
inviting. It would have attracted
a painter, or a pig, or even a
cockatoo, there was so much
variety. Ferns, flowers, corn-
cobs, wattle blossoms, corn-
stalks and things waved all over
it, and a large, healthy piece of
pumpkin-vine sheltered the
butter. Sarah stood by, smil-
ing, her hands clasped on her
apron, waiting the effect.
« Joe was the first to enter. He
Stood, stared, guffawed rudely
and would have run back only
the others were on his heels.
“Dear me, girl,” said Dad,
“what’s all this?"
Sarah smiled. Everyone sat
down. The visitors talked cheer-
fully and in turn admired the
piece of pumpkin-vine.
Dave was solemn and silent
and indifferent as a tombstone.
Dave had no taste, no eye for
art. Joe passed him a corn-cob,
and he grinned in his weird
way, but, recollecting there was
company, composed himself and
was silent again. Dave was
never boisterous long at a time.
He looked along his nose and
waited.
Dad rattled a knife on the
steel and began to carve.
A short interval of silence.
Mrs Farrell looked at Dave
and asked him had he seen the
lovely corn Mullins had. As if
she couldn’t have asked someone
else! Dave started, fumbled his
fingers, lifted his eyes and
dropped them again, but couldn’t
think of a word to say. Joe
rescued him, Joe had seen
Mullins’s corn.
Dave was very unhappy. He
thought everybody must be
staring at him, and sat in dread
of Mrs. Farrell’s asking more
questions.
“Avery, very small helping of
fowl, if you please,” the parson
said, in answer to Dad.
Bill’s eyes and mouth moved
rapidly. He seemed to be re-
peating poetry or a prayer to
himself.
“ ’N’ what for you, Bill?”
“Er —a very, very small help-
ing of fowl, if you please,” he
said rapidly.
Joe made an ugly spluttering
noise in his throat which discon-
certed Bill. He changed color,
Sarah tried to frown at Bill,
but his eyes were on the parson.
Mrs. Farrell smiled.
The parson stirred his tea,
took up his knife and fork and
began. Bill did these things, too.
Dave was getting on well.
The others talked about music
and concerts.
“Do you sing, Mr. Rudd?”
Miss Mason asked, fixing her
lovely big eyes fair on Dave.
Poor old chap! His fork fell
right out of his fingers and he
did look sheepish.
“He won’t sing,” Sarah
chimed in. “We can never get
him to try; Miss Mason.”
It was good of Sarah to help
Dave out. Joe grinned. He
always did when he was going to
say something useless.
“He t-t-tried one night,” he
said. “The night the s-s-stallion
broke out.”
There was a lot of tittering.
Everyone seemed to enjoy it but
Bill and Dad —and Dave. Bill
was studying the parson and
Dad had failed to hear what
Joe said. Joe lifted his voice.
“I say D-Dave s-sang orright
the night he f-f-frightened the
s-s-stallion! ”
Dad looked at Dave and “hoo-
hooed.” -■ Everyone looked at
Dave. Dave could feel them.
He stared solidly and stub-
bornly into his plate, wishing to
Heaven ,an earthquake or some-
thing would shatter the house.
Dinner continued, but Dave
couldn’t eat another mouthful—
and puddings and fruit and
things on the table, too! He sat
for a while, then, as if he had
had a real good dinner, rose and
left Outside he kicked the dog
for nothing at all, and went
across to the thresher’s tent and
threw himself on a bunk. Mc-
Phee, the boss-thresher, who had
knocked off early and put on his
Sunday clothes in honor of “the
nicht,” produced a bottle from
the head of his bed and asked
Dave if he’d have a drop. Dave
smiled and took two or three
drops, and stayed all the after-
noon.
At tea-time, “Call Dave,”
Mother said to Bill.
Bill found it hard to make
Dave hear. But he came at last,
came singing “Poorsh honish
parensh, born in Cashl-hic-
maine! ” Everyone listened. “No
stransher he-hic-didsh fear” —
and in the door Dave walked,
looking happy. He sat at the
table close to Miss Mason and
smiled.
Bill began to giggle. Mother
and Sarah stared at each other.
“Wheresh parshun?” Dave
said, looking about the room.
Joe got the giggles, too. Dave
grinned and closed one eye, and
said to Joe “C’n you-hic-shing,
Miss Rudd?”
Mrs. Farrell leant back and
shrieked and held her sides.
“Where’ve you been?” Dad
said, looking across at Dave like
a Chief Justice.
“Been? ’Shup there”-
And Dave spread himself out
and took possession of the table.
And how he did eat!
Dad finished and left abruptly
and went straight to the
thresher’s tent.
Mother became anxious and
went* to the veranda. She was
afraid of a quarrel and stood
watching. The tall green corn
rustled and rasped its tangled
leaves as it tossed and bent in
the breeze that was springing up.
Mother gave a nervous start.
Dad’s voice, strong and loud,
floated in the air. “You did!”
“I deed-ant!”
“You did! Damn you, man,
you did!”
But the row ceased suddenly.
McPhee, who was a good judge
of character, resorted to persua-
sion. He spoke softly to Dad,
and patted him on the back.
“I’m frae Dumfries,” he said.
So was Dad.
“Yeer haun’,” said McPhee.
Dad gave it, and they shook
like brothers and peered affec-
tionately into each other’s eyes.
Then McPhee sprung the bottle
on Dad. Dad wouldn’t take very
much. He took about an inch.
They talked of Scotland, at
least McPhee did. Dad didn’t
know anything about Scotland.
“No, no more,” Dad said, and
shook his head.
“Beh! Ye’re nae frae Dum-
fries.”
“Well —just a drop, then.”
And Dad took some more, and
smacked his lips and said it was
good stuff.
Mother remained on the
veranda. As it got dark Dad
came along and with him Mc-
Phee the thresher.
The night was bright as day
and a cool breeze blowing.
Mother and Sarah and Joe and
the visitors sat on the veranda
listening to Cook’s boys, about
a mile down, putting their calves
in. Curlews and mopokes were
about, and we could hear the
possums round the corn at the
seventeen-acres. Dad was inside
entertaining McPhee.
Dave came out and leant
against a veranda-post. “Cansh
make up dansh?” he said.
“Make up a dance? Make up
your bed!” Sarah answered,
and Mrs. Farrell shrieked again.
“Da-dance, y’ want?” Joe
said. “Well, come on.” And
he seized Dave round the waist
and proceeded to pull him about.
They were tumbling and sprawl-
ing on the veranda like two
bears when the dogs rushed out
and barked. The tramp and
rattle of horse-hoofs, the clang-
ing of bits and irons blended
with voices, came from the rear.
Next moment quite an army of
mounted men and women were
crowding and clamoring at the
front. They yelled all sorts of
friendly greetings. One, to
attract attention, spurred his
horse into the paling fence and
swore because the animal
couldn’t shake an old kerosene-
tin off its foot. Sarah ran down
the steps and hugged and kissed
everything that dismounted in a
riding-habit.
Dave stood on the brink o:'
the veranda and called out
“Night!”—and raised one hand
as though he would address
them. Then he slipped and fel
on top of a pack of snarling
dogs and sent one yelling rounc
the house and made Jim Black’s
horse pull back and rear and
mix itself up with other horses
Dad came out and wanted to
know what the devil all the row
was about. Then the mob, which
was a surprise party, fastened its
horses to the palings and pro-
ceeded to load the veranda with
provender. All were armed with
eatables. Some carried them in
baskets, some in bags, some in
paper. Wild Dick Saunders, a
rough, hairy man with a harsh,
aggressive voice, who carried his
in a red handkerchief, volun-
teered to stand guard over the
pile and keep the damned dogs
away.
Such a crowd! And so tall
and sombre-looking at night!
They tramped clumsily on the
veranda and seethed and shoved
like scrub cattle yarded in the
moonlight.
Dad and Mother were ever
so long shaking hands before
they got round the lot. Long
Jerry Johnson was the last, but
he couldn’t shake hands at all —
his arms were full. He carried
their baby, six weeks old, con-
cealed in a shawl and a long
dress. There the great elf stood
like a dead tree, holding his off-
spring out from him as though
it were a wet dog.
“’UUo! What’ve y’ here?”
Dad said. “More grub?”
“No, a ba-by,” said Jerry
meekly.
“A baby? Well, keep it, keep
it; we don’t want any o’ them,
do we, oP woman?” —to Mother.
“We’ve had plenty. How many
was it, ol’ gal—sixteen?”
“Go along!” Mother said.
“Sixteen o’ ’em, Jerry! But
let’s see if it’s like y’.” And
Dad grabbed the child and
pushed his way in with it.
Joe grinned and whispered in
Jerry’s ear “W-watch if the ol’
man don’t d-d-drop it. He’s a
bit m-merry.”
Jerry jumped as if he had
been struck with something.
“Look out!” he said, and went
through the crowd at the door
like a racehorse. He asked Dad
to give back the baby, but Mrs.
Johnson came and took the
mite and put it on a bed in a
back room where you couldn’t
hear it squeal if anyone sat on
it.
The surprise party took pos-
session of the house, bundled
the tables out, hunted round for
chairs and gin-cases and set the
concertina going. Then they
proceeded to play games. They
arranged chairs and gin-cases in
a line down the room and half-
way to the kitchen, and while
the musician strained and jerked
out a jig they pranced round
until the music shut up sud-
denly, when they yelled and
squealed and rushed headlong
at the same chair, and fell on
it until it collapsed and went
to pieces. After that the con-
certina broke out again, and


-INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
ft T«A Tofte’in
*wEUs*
o rk w*” 1 .
on
fT?
»,*•*>
.
«</.- ~2
■ if
, ~ -V/"‘. ill
HlVff
, 1 1 i
AW/K'
vfcd
l v >)
Four-furrow Mouldboard Plough,
deep-working drawn type, with
Power Lift, drawn by the Nuffield
Universal Tractor.
Nuffield Universal Tractor proves its "Universal" name with its
versatility—it will take almost every type and make of imple-
ment, drawn or otherwise. Other features include 6-way hydraulic
power . . . adjustable track front and rear . . . speedy 4-wheel
to 3-wheel conversion .. . high road speeds ... non-slip power-
weight distribution ... 5 power-packed forward speeds . . .
complete electrical equipment . . . independent turning brakes
. . . AND great economy.
ARRANGE A FREE DEMONSTRATION WITH YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
NUFFIELD DEALER!
g
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NUFFIELD (ftUST.) PTY. LTD.. Victoria Park, Joynton Ave., Zetland. N.S.W.
NT20.24
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
they picked each other out of
the dust and puffed and pre-
pared to prance more.
Wild Saunders, left in charge
of the provisions, appeared at
the door. “Jerry Johnson!” he
shouted, “Come out here an’
mind this ham-bone o’ yours or
the dog’ll have it, bag and
all!”
“Oh, dear! ” some said. Others
went “S-sh,” and Miss Mason,
sitting near the door, covered
her ears with her hands.
But Saunders didn’t apolo-
gise ; he simply added “It’s a
good job y’ didn’t leave the
piccaninny in the bag!”
Dave sauntered in and looked
round. Prompted by new-born
feelings of hospitality, he went
silently through the company
and, with a broad smile and no
collar, shook hands with every-
one, including Joe and Sarah.
Then he raised himself in
triumph against the wall and
struck his head hard against the
shelf and shook down the clock,
and a cob of corn, and a bottle
of murky looking water in which
Bill, a year before, had corked
a snake. The clock didn’t break
much, nor did the cob of corn,
but the bottle containing the
snake did. And the crash was
hardly over when a panic set in.
Such a scramble! To see them
getting out both doors! And to
hear them choking when they
got out!
“Whatever were in the
bottle?” said old Andrew O’Day
in an injured tone.
Joe explained, and Andrew
spat more.
“A deed horrse is naething t’
it,” said McPhee, walking to-
wards his tent. And they all
assembled at the foot of the
steps and laughed. Inside the
bottle lay silently on the floor,
and the snake cast its robust
fragrance upon the atmosphere
in a visible cloud.
They collected the provisions
and, making use of the kitchen,
invited Dad and Mother and the
rest of us to supper. Then all
went out again and danced on
the grass. And as midnight
approached, and the Old Year
went and the New crept in, in
the shade of the sinking moon
and fhe light of a million stars
they joined hands in hearty grip
and filled the corn-fields and
hollow with dragging echoes of
“For Auld Lang Syne.”
Dave Becomes
Discontented
TTEAL was what Dad wanted
on our new selection. He
told us so often. He liked to
see people zealous, people who
took pleasure and pride in work-
ing—for him. We could never
work too hard or too long for
Dad.
After dinner. Dave and Joe
at the barn waiting for the horses
to finish feeding. Dave sitting
with his back to the slabs, his
hands embracing his knees,
staring thoughtfully from under
an old felt hat at the stubble-
field, over which a million
grasshoppers sported themselves
in the scorching, simmering
heat. Joe lying flat on his
stomach, supporting his chin in
his palms, digging earth up with
the toes of his boots and dex-
trously spitting at ants that
passed within range,
“Don’t know what you think,”
Dave said gloomily, “but it
ain’t good enough for me. I’ve
told the old chap, too, over and
over again, that I won’t stand it
any longer. Slog away as much
as y’ like an’ look after things
all the year, then when y’ want
a few bob you’ve got to ask him
for it.” A pause. “An’ when
y’ do ask he growls like a bear.”
“That’s so,” Joe said.
“Y’d think,” Dave continued,
“a feller was on’y a kid, the
way”
Just then Dad appeared, using
strong language to Cranky Jack
for heaving a shovel at one of
the mares.
“Not yoked-up yet?” he
growled. “Y’ll take all day
soon!”
“Oh, give the horses time to
finish,” Dave said sharply.
“Time t’ finish! ” Dad snorted.
“Time for y’ to yarn and idle.”
Dave fixed his eyes on Dad.
“What ’re y’ talkin’ about?”
he said.
“What ’m I —damn you,
feller, will y’ sit fhere givin’
impudence t’ my very face? Get
up and go on with the ploughin’
—the two of y’.”
“Not another turn’ll I do,”
Dave said, the tears starting into
his eyes. “Not another damn’
stroke! Y’ ain’t satisfied mooch-
ing round the place all the morn-
ing, pokin’ in everybody’s road,
but y’ must come here ’n’ meddle
with things y’ knows nothing
about”
“Know nothing about?” Dad
shook with rage.
“Yes, know nothing about.”
“Confound you! You inso-
lent” Dad was lost for a
word. “Clear out of this—
clear!” And up went his big
right hand, after the manner of
a railway-guard.
“No need t’ tell me,” Dave
said. “I’ve stayed here too long
as it is—for all that ever I get
from y’! ”
“Get from me? What the
devil do you want, you hound?”
“Something more than the
few miserable shillings I get once
a year.”
“Damn y’, feller! D’ y’ think
I’m a millionaire?”
“No—nor anyone”
' Here Mother came and inter-
vened and tried to make peace.
But Dave was determined to
leave home. He went into the
house and put on a coat, then he
saddled a horse and rode away.
He went as far as Delaney’s,
five miles up.
Dad began to think, and dis-
cussed the situation with
Mother.
“Well, you know,” said
Mother quietly, “the boys is men
now, and I suppose they think
that it’s time they had some-
thing to themselves.”
Dad thought some more, then
went down to the seventeen-
acres, where a man we had en-
gaged and one of the Regan boys
were pulling corn and carting it
in. Dad went over their tracks,
and, finding a small cob with
scarcely any corn on it, brought
it along and threw it into the
dray and lectured the man for
missing it. The man offered no
explanation, but young Regan
grinned.
“You imp! ” Dad yelled. “Get
on out of that. What the devil
are y’ standin’ for?”
The boy waded in.
Dad then lent a hand and
worked hard. The dray was
nearly full. The man mounted
it to square the load.
“What are y’ lookin’ at now?”
Dad shouted again to the boy,
who was watching the man on
the dray.
“I’ve finished me side,”
whined the boy.
“Lead the horse on, then.”
“How kin I, till”
“Lead the horse on! ”
The boy ducked in time to
dodge a cob Dad aimed at his
head.
“You whelp! ” And Dad went
off round the dray after him.
Regan dodged. Dad pelted more
cobs at him and roared. “Stand,
you young devil, or I’ll knock
your head off!”
Regan gathered cobs as he ran
and returned Dad’s fire over the
back of the horse. The man on
the dray sank in a lump on the
load and laughed. Regan left
the dray, charged into the corn,
and disappeared.
Dad threatened the man on
the dray with violence and the
sack, then left and went across
to Cranky Jack and a traveller
who was putting in a day or two
for tucker. They were filling the
shed with hay and must have
been doing it all wrong, because
as soon as Dad set eyes on it he
started swearing and dancing
round.
The traveller stood, holding
an immense forkful of hay
above his head, and listened a
second or two. Then he said
“Be damned to you! ” and threw
all the hay on top of Dad,
smashed the fork on the ground,
heaved the pieces down the pad-
dock and walked off, cursing.
Dad threw the hay off himself
and spat and shouted “You
coward I ”
“Go ’way, boss, go ’way,”
Jack said, “an’ don’t insult the
gentleman. Jim’s from Ireland.”
Dad scowled at the half-
witted man and went away. He
harnessed Dave’s pair of plough-
horses and joined Joe.
“I’ll show the feller he can be
done without, I know,” he said
to Joe.
Joe smiled and said “Git erp
... Jess!... Jolly! ” And when
he stopped to clean the plough
again and looked round there
was Dad walloping Dave’s
horses.
Joe ran back.
“What the deuce is up
n-now?” he said,
“Confound the feller!” Dad
answered. “He’s got the horses
completely spoilt.”
“They’re all right,” Joe said,
approaching the plough-handles.
“They’re not all right—they’re
all wrong. Stand aside, sir!”
And Dad took the reins again.
“Now, then! ” he shouted,
shaking the plough. “Get up!
Horses! ” They jerked and
swerved and shoved each other.
“You damn’ rubbish —get up!”
“No wonder!” said Joe, mak-
ing a discovery. “They’re not in
their right places. Put the b-
black horse in the f-furrer.”
“He’ll go where I put him.
Get up. ...you pair o’ dogs!
Gee back... way! Wa-ya! ”
Dad dropped the plough-
handles, slipped up beside the
horses and walloped them so
suddenly that they both bounded
off before Joe could seize the
reins. The next moment they
were bolting across the paddock
with the plough flying behind
them.
Dad turned to Joe. “Dammit,
why couldn’t y’ take the reins?”
“W-well” —and Joe grinned
—“there’s some things a feller
can’t do.”
“There’s a damn’ lot o’ things
y’ can’t do!” Dad snorted out
and went after the horses. He
found them and a portion of the
plough stuck in the fence near
the barn, surrounded by Mother
and Sarah and the dogs and the
man who was pulling corn.
Mother wanted to know what
had happened, but Dad was un-
communicative. Next day he
ordered anew plough, and for
months afterwards the black
horse hopped about on three
legs.
Dave came back after tea, but
scarcely looked at anyone. He
rolled some clothes in a blanket,
hung about for a minute or two,
as though he felt sorry, then said
good-bye to us all and went back
to Delaney’s, leaving Mother
crying on the veranda.
“Mark my word,” said Dad,
pacing up and down, “he’ll be
glad to come back yet.”
Dave wasn’t away a week
when everything was going
wrong. Three cows burst on
the lucerne, a mare and foal
were lost, the chaff-cutter
smashed in two places, and every
ounce of a bullock that Dad
salted went bad and was thrown
out.
A hot day at Delaney’s. Dave
ploughing. He had scraped the
plough and was standing, reflect-
ing. He felt lonely—it was the
first time he had ever been away
—and couldn’t help thinking of
home and Mother crying on the
veranda and of Joe and Sarah
at home. “Poor old Sarah,” he
said aloud, when a form he
knew well rode up to the fence
and greeted him cheerfully.
“Hello, Dad,” Dave said with
a glad grin. It seemed like old
times to Dave to see Dad, though
it was only eight days since
they had parted.
Dad dismounted and crawled
through the fence.
“What’s he putting in here?”
he asked, surveying the ploughed
land.
Dave told him. Then there
was a dead silence. Even the
birds and the horses’ tails kept
still. Dave played with some
mud he had scraped from the
plough. Dad with his trouser-
pocket.
Dad spoke. “Better come
home, Dave?” he said,
“Dunno,” Dave answered,
coloring up and throwing the
mud down.
“This is no place for you,
man” —a pause—“no place at
all.”
Dave gazed in silence at his
boots. '
“If there’s anything y’ want,
say so, lad,” Dad went on,
knowing when he had an
advantage.
“Here” —dragging his hand
out of his pocket with a jerk—
“here’s a five-pound note for y’
now. An’ goodness only knows,
if ever y’ want t’ go t’ town or
anywhere y’ can always take a
day, or two days, or a week for
that matter —can’t y’?”
“Yairs. ..Ts’pose s’,”
“Well, come along.”
Dave came. And two days
later Dad called him a useless
dog.
(To be continued next week)


DEFEAT
By A.C. HEADLEY
LYING in the bed, awaiting
the shrill spund of his
daughter-in-law’s voice,
Hennessey looked idly
abound the small room. His
trousers were spread across the
back of a chair, and he was
abruptly amazed by their hang-
ing bulk. He half-closed his
eyes to look at them again and
allow himself to grow more and
more impressed with their size,
but a movement of his limbs in
the bed pricked the bubble of
his pride and brought to him an
awareness of his age and
frailty.
He closed his eyes and lay
without movement until a sound
from the \yindow caught his
attention. Through breaks in
the palings he could see the
woman next-door moving about
behind the grey, weathered fence.
For a moment he watched her;
then he opened his mouth, suck-
ing in air until he could feel its
irritation at the back of his
throat. The cough came to move
his body, joltingly, in the bed.
In a minute he exhausted the
force of breath behind it. He
rested briefly and sucked again,
until the irritation changed to the
fullness of a cough. The woman
behind the palings turned her
head towards his window.
Watching her, he was conscious
of a faint amusement.
A sharp rap sounded on the
door of his room. Hennessey
stopped coughing and slid down
into the bed.
“Yes?” he called, investing the
word with a quality of strangled
weakness.
The door swung back and his
daughter-in-law stood in the
doorway, a shapeless house-frock
hanging flatly against her body.
She stood for a moment look-
ing at him, her thin lips knuck-
ling one against the other.
“Time you were up,” she said
sharply. “I don’t want to be
hanging around all day waiting
to do the beds.”
Hennessey closed his eyes
wearily.
“I’m not feeling the best. I
didn’t get a wink of sleep all
night. Think I might lay in a
bit.”
“There’s not a thing wrong
with you,” the woman said
acidly, “except downright lazi-
ness. The doctor said that.”
“He gimme medicine,” the old
man defended.
“Colored water at seven-’n’-six
a bottle and told you to take
more exercise,” she said scorn-
fully. “Come on, now ; out of
bed with you. Your breakfast’s
been ready for ages.”
He slid further down in the
bed.
“I don’t think I could face
food,” he said weakly.
CHE left the room, slamming
the door angrily behind her,
leaving him with the satisfaction
of knowing that her anger would
grow. He lay back and looked
at the ceiling with the awareness
growing that this was the
important thing in his life. The
stirring of her anger was a com-
pensation for the things he had
lost when his son had brought
her to live in his house.
Oddly, however, he was
conscious of no hatred for her.
She had been a good enough
wife for Ronnie, and she looked
after the house well. It was in
the loss of his authority in the
home that he had found his
resentment against his son’s wife.
There was the bitterness in hav-
ing his opinions thrust
impatiently to one side. From
these things he had built the
satisfaction of driving her to
anger.
Now, because he knew it
would annoy her, he sucked air
into the back of his throat and
began to cough. Above the
sound, he heard the woman next-
door say loudly “You’d think
she’d have a bit of feeling.”
Hennessey smiled to himself.
Over many months that little
triumph had been achieved.
Without wo- is, he had broken
the intimacy of relationship be-
tween the woman nex,t-door and
his daughter-in-law. Long ago
they had ceased their back-fence
conversations, and he had found
satisfaction in watching his
daughter-in-law retire into her-
self. Without announcement,
the woman next-door had be-
come his ally, an agent for the
spreading of his propaganda
among the terraced houses of the
street. He lay back in the bed,
remembering the woman’s full
resentment against his daughter-
in-law’s inhumanity.
A thought stabbed into his
mind, and immediately killed the
idea of staying in bed for the
day. It was Tuesday, and he
had arranged to meet Joe
Sheaffer in the Cricketer’s Arms
at eleven.
He was immediately sorry he
had mentioned his inability to
face food. He climbed out of
bed. Automatically, he went
across to the window and
coughed wheezily with his hand
pressed tight against his chest.
Satisfied with the effort, he
turned and tottered weakly to-
wards the centre of the room.
He dressed quickly, opened the
door and went out through the
house. In the kitchen, he
splashed water against his face
and rubbed at it with a towel.
His daughter-in-law came into
the kitchen from the backyard
to watch him malevolently.
“There’s no breakfast for
you,” she snapped. “I threw it
out.”
There was no truth in the
statement, and he knew it. In
the knowledge of her grudging
softness, he found another satis-
faction. He knew that in a few
minutes she would be thrusting
food angrily before him if he
allowed it. But his earlier
decision had made that impos-
sible. He had discovered his
hunger, but announcement of the
fact would be an admission of
weakness.
“If I ate a mouthful,” he said,
“I’d bring it up.”
“You bloody old fake,” she
said.
Again there was satisfaction
for him in her awareness of the
fact. Long since, she had given
up the struggle to find circula-
tion for her knowledge. Too
often she had met the frigid
politeness of unbelief. Now,
because he knew it would irritate
her, he cleared his throat and
spat into the sink.
Instantly she was a fury of
temper, thrusting him away from
the sink and turning the tap on
hard.
“You filthy beast!”
He sucked air down the back
of his throat and started to
cough. She turned on him, and
for a moment he had the
incredible feeling she was going
to strike him. He stopped
coughing and backed away.
She took a pace forward and
stood facing him, her fists
clenched, her face squeezed and
small with rage. Then, as sud-
denly, force moved out of her,
and her arms dropped helplessly
to her sides.
He took his hat and coat from
the kitchen-door, put them on
and went out of the house.
AT the front-gate he stopped,
arched his shoulders a little
and pressed a hand hard against
the fleshlessness of his chest,
while his eyes moved brightly
along the street. Without turn-
ing his head, he knew his
daughter-in-law was watching
him through the curtains of the
front window, allowing the
passion of her anger to grow.
He opened the gate, took a pace,
and his thin hand groped uncer-
tainly for the support of the
fence. The woman next-door
had moved into her front
garden.
“You all right, Mr. Hen-
nessey?”
He was quick with his startled
surprise; then quick again to
bring the weak smile of self-
consciousness.
“Just a bit of a turn. I’ll be
all right in a minute.”
She looked at him with
anxious eyes, and, for a moment,
he was afraid she would invite
him into the house for a “sit-
down.” He straightened and
commenced to , walk. The
woman next-door came down to
lean over the front fence.
“You shouldn’t be getting
about like this,” she said; “not
in your state.”
“I’d die if I couldn’t get out
for a bit of fresh air occasion-
ally,” he said gently. “I can’t
stand being cooped-up inside,”
Her eyes flashed an indignant
glance in the direction of the
house he had just left, his words
finding interpretation in her
resentment. He watched her
with amusement, remembering
the friendship that had once
existed between her and his
daughter-in-law. In its place
now was the bitterness he had
created and fostered with nothing
more than a weary passiveness.
He felt absurdly proud of
himself.
“I’m right now,” he said.
He walked a few paces along
the street, and halted to fumble
with thin fingers in the outside
pocket of his coat. A frown
tightened the lines in his fore-
head. His tobacco and matches
; were where he had left them the
night before, on the small table
by the side of his bed. The
tyoman next-door was watching
him curiously.
“Forgot something,” he said.
The kitchen-door was open
when he reached the house, and
he realised that his daughter-in-
law had not heard his return.
He stood in the doorway looking
at her, aware of a peculiar feel-
ing of embarrassment. The
woman was hunched over the
kitchen-table, her thin body
pulsing uncontrollably with the
force of her sobs. Uncertain of
what to do, he stood there,
conscious of a vague pity. He
must have made a sound, for the
woman at the table looked up
quickly. Her face tightened.
“Get out,” she snarled. “Get
out or I’ll kill you.”
T ICKING his lips, he looked
at her uncertainly. With a
quick movement she reached out
and caught a dish from the table.
It smashed into the wall beside
his head. He took a pace back.
Her eyes were on him, her face
moving queerly.
“Go on, get back to her,” she
spat. “Tell them all along the
street. How’s your heart today.
Mister Hennessey? How’s your
lungs? How’s your liver?” She
stood up, pushing the table away
from her. “There isn’t a damn’
thing wrong with you, you
bloody old fake. You’ve got
them all taken in, even Ronnie,
and God knows he should be
awake-up to you.”
He watched her a little fear-
fully, It was not the first time
he had seen her in a rage, but
never before had it held the
intensity of this. Without realis-
ing it, he coughed nervously.
Her chair scraped against the
floor as the woman stood up.
“Get out!” she screamed.
“Get out! Get out of my
sight! ”
He pulled the door behind him
and stood for a moment outside
it, aware of a strange weakness
in his limbs. He could feel the
beating of his heart and he was,
oddly, breathless. The thought
of his tobacco occurred to him,
but he dismissed quickly the
idea of returning to the house.
The simple course was to call in
at Hamilton’s for another couple
of ounces. He moved away from
the door, turned the comer of
the house and went out on to the
street.
With the sun on his body, he
felt better. He walked slowly,
stopping every thirty or forty
yards to press a hand against
his chest and stand without
movement in announcement of
his condition. It was a pattern
he had created so long ago that
he had almost forgotten the
shrewdness of its beginning.
At the corner where the street
came out into the main road,
Colin Jenk walked across to
speak to him,
“How’re y’ feelin’, Mr.
Hennessey?”
He smiled weakly.
“This weather doesn’t do the
old chest any good.”
“You shouldn’t be gettin’
about. You dughter be takin’
care of yourself.”
Hennessey waved a thin hand.
“I can’t stay cooped-up with
women fussin’ all around me,”
Jenk grinned.
“They tell me she’s a bit of a
tartar.”
“I wouldn’t say a thing against
her,” said the old man. “I will
say, though, that women don’t
understand some things. Because
a man’s been active most of his
life they seem to think he's
always gonner be that way.”
Jenk eyed him sympathetically,
“You want to watch yourself,”
he said warningly.
TOE SHEAFFER was waiting
J when he reached the hotel.
Hennessey bought two middies
and carried them back to the
table in the small patch of sun
by the window. They drank the
beer slowly, each aware that to-
day was the same as yesterday,
and there was nothing to talk
about, Hennessey eased back
against the chair and thought of
his daughter-in-law.
He remembered the time when
Ronnie and his wife had come
to the house. Hennessey’s wife
had been dead then for six
months, and the suggestion that
Ronnie and his wife should come
and look after him had come
from him. He frowned, think-
ing of it, seeing the swift
whittling of his authority.
She began finding tasks for
him to do around the house when
the thing he wanted to do was
sit and enjoy the sun. There
were messages to be run. There
were pieals, with a heavy insist-
ence on punctuality. Suddenly
he was thinking of the woman
as he had left her less than an
hour ago, seeing the wet shine of
tears on her face. Immediately
he was aware of a warming glow
of satisfaction.
He opened his eyes and looked
around the small bar. They had
another beer, sipping it slowly,
then it was time to move along
to the seat by the Town Hall, to
allow the middle of the day to
wear itself away:
The seat by the Town Hall
was a pleasant place. The sharp
angle of the Town Hall protected
it from the movement of wind,
while the walls of the court-
house across the street seemed to
lock the sun so that it found no
release from the business of
carrying warmth to the small
corner. Danny Hewens was sit-
ting on the corner of the seat
with his legs crossed, his hand
holding so completely the bowl
of his pipe that he might have
been sucking a closed fist. He
nodded without speaking and
they sat down beside him.
Warmth began to ease into
Hennessey’s body. He rolled a
cigarette, lit it and sat back,
easing his shoulders carefully
against the woodwork of the
seat. They sat without speak-
ing. Long ago they had realised
the futility of the things they had
to talk about. The things they
had to talk about were the things
they had discussed a hundred
times before, and their newness
was only in the groping uncer-
tainty of a worn memory.
Hennessey sucked at his
cigarette and looked about him.
Across the street, on the court-
house steps, people were stand-
ing around as though they were
attending a funeral. As always,
it amused him to see that the
women wore black. Brakes
squealed and a bus pulled in,
blocking his view of the court-
house. Idly, he watched the
passengers climb out. A woman
walked by and came back to
speak to him.
“How are you today, Mr.
Hennessey?”
“Haven’t been the best,” he
said mournfully. “Still, you
gotter expect these things when
you’re getting on.”
The woman clucked sympa-
thetically.
“I hope you’ll be feeling better
soon.”
He waited for her to move
along the street.
“Silly old fool,” he said.
TSUT the woman had stirred in
him thoughts of his
daughter-in-law. He leaned back
on the seat and closed his eyes,
remembering the arguments be-
tween her and Ronnie. At first
there had been arguments held
behind the closed door of the
bedroom; then suddenly the
rows were out living with him
and he could sit listening while
his son defended him against the
heat of the woman. He remem-
bered the times he had forced
the misery of it into his face to
give fuel for the anger of his
son.
There was enjoyment for him
in the fury of the woman.
(<Continued on page 34)


v:;s«jXc
§i:?§i:i:i;i;^:§^
;
■■ ••;.•:
m
mm.
iff'
SsS3&:
m
;. ■■
.
*SS
Si
SSS
m y
Mmm
&
iiiill
The whole story from A to Z
... It's the story of a big business and the money it takes
to run it. It’s the story of General Motors-Holden’s
purchases of the products it needs to feed its production
lines products that literally range through a whole
alphabet of trades and industries from A ( aluminium )
to Z {zippers).
In 1952 General Motors-Holden’s sold more than
47,000 vehicles and many thousands of other products
such as refrigerators, household appliances, automotive
parts and accessories, power and industrial equipment.
The proceeds from these sales amounted to almost 50
million pounds.
When you examine how that money was distributed
you get some idea of the importance of the GMH
operation to Australia’s economy of its ramifications
through our whole national structure and what it
means in terms of our country’s growth and prosperity.
More than 60 per cent, of GMH revenue, or more
than 30 million pounds, went to suppliers of parts,
services and materials, including steel, iron, aluminium,
timber, wool, hides, textiles, rubber, paint, components
and parts all needed to keep GMH production lines
moving. Among those suppliers were more than 3,000
separate Australian businesses some of them large,
most of them small employing many thousands of
Australians.
The supply lines that carried this stream of products
to General Motors-Holden’s plants flow from every
corner of the Commonwealth from such widely
separated places as Mount Isa, Broken Hill, Whyalla,
Port Pirie, Newcastle.
As already stated, outside suppliers received more
than 60 per cent, of the entire GMH revenue for the
year 1952. To complete the financial story, nearly 20
per cent, of receipts went to employees as salaries and
wages.. . more than 10 per cent, went to the Govern-
ment for Customs Duties, taxes, etc.... more, than 7
per cent, was ploughed back into the business ... more
than one per cent, was to provide for depreciation on
plants and equipment. The shareholders received one-
tenth of one per cent, as dividends.
A big business? Certainly. And it’s doing big things
for Australia.
g
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
. . . a partner in Australia’s future
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
TB9D


is
I V-
0ufmiL
designed by the Australian
inventor of rotary tillage—
The Powerful "GEM
Because of its many new and improved
features, the "Gem" has-a work capacity
and ease of control never seen before in
any rotary hoe. Features include: Robust
6 h.p. J.A.P. engine with three forward
speeds . . . differential for easy turning
with only one hand . . . automatic safety
reverse gear . . . totally enclosed, single
unit gearbox . . . handlebars
adjustable sideways and
vertically.
Mark IV models with
9.6 h.p. and 24" or 30"
cuts, single or dual pneu-
matic wheels, are also
available.
AMPLE SPARE PARTS
m
, •-1
R*
The Amazing "BANTAM"
Nothing like it has ever been seen before
in this country! A highly efficient hoe, the
"Bantam" can also cut, mow and trim by means
of various attachments. It has a sturdy, specially
built British engine, handlebars adjustable
horizontally as well as vertically, two moulded
rubber treads 10" apart for extra stability, and
many other features.
FOR ALL MODELS RHI2.84
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
P.O.Box 509 Phone: BU 5095
BRANCHES: MELBOURNE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, WAGGA & HAY
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA
Number 26 of 1953.
In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS VICTOR WESTON formerly
of 34 Charles Street Launceston in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed with
a Notice to you to appear and answer the
charges in the Petition of FLORENCE
MAY WESTON of 157 Augusta Road
Hobart in Tasmania praying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid within thirty days of the publi-
cation of this notice an appearance must
be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart. —H. R. DOBBIE, Principal
Registrar.
OGILVIE McKENNA WILMSHURST
& MILLS, Colonial Mutual Life Building,
Corner Elizabeth and Macquarie Streets,
Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To know address or meeting-place
of any Manx Society in Australia—
or to get in touch with any Isle ot
Man people.—ssB9.
To buy books by Maurice Walsh
and Donn Byrne. Quote titles and
prices.—ssBB.
Words of Australian verse begin-
ning:—
The bugles of the Motherland rang
ceaselessly across the sea,
To call him and his lean brown land to
shape Imperial Destiny.
—5592.
To buy copy of The Animals Noah
Forgot by “Banjo” Paterson. —5597.
Englishman, arriving Sydney Oc-
tober 19 next, seeks position with
N-S.W. city or country hospital. Was
chief petty officer with R.N. (sick
bay), can perform nursing or X-ray
(T. 8.) work. —5599.
Englishman, newly arrived, wife and
two children, urgently requires fur-
nished flat or cottage, anywhere in
Sydney.—ss9B.
To buy copy of Singing to the
Cattle by Brian Elliott and A. G.
Stephens by Vance Palmer. —5600.
South African reader would like
to get in touch with Australian stamp-
collectors with a view to exchanging
stamps. (Reply direct to Mr. G. R.
Attwood, Mount Curtis Hotel, Sea-
point, Capetown, South Africa.)
To buy copy of Pageant by G. B.
Lancaster. —5601.
Information Sought ,
Some information on Amelia Ear-
hart Putnam, and on the flight on
which she was engaged when lost?
Born in Kansas in 1898, she was a
Red Cross worker in World War I,
but achieved fame as an airwoman.
As a passenger she was the first
woman to cross the north Atlantic by
plane (in 1928). In 1932, as pilot,
she flew from Newfoundland to Ire-
land in 13i hours, and in 1935 made
the first solo flight from Honolulu
to California (time, hours). While
attempting a round-the-world flight
(with Captain Frederick J. Noonan
as navigator) she disappeared in July,
1937, on the hop between Lae (N.G.)
and Howland Island. Though her
plane (a Lockheed Electra) was
equipped with very good emergency
requirements not a trace of the plane
was ever found. Under personal
orders from Roosevelt, the carrier
Lexington, a battleship and other
s hi ps of ffi e u.S. Navy were dis-
pa^ hec[ imme diately to search. Before
Mrs. p u tnam left the U.S. she had
been given a jj technical advice avail-
able, though her flight was not
“officially encouraged.” It seems
very probable that she lost her way
and flew over Japanese mandatory
territory which the Japs were secretly
fortifying preparatory to their
attempted conquest of the Pacific,
and she was prosably shot down b y
them. For diplomatic reasons this
suspicion was not voiced at the time.
However, nothing definite as to her
£ ate has ever been disC o,ered.
* * * *
Jl) What ™ejhe_ Clas-
sics . (2) Where can a list of them
be consulted.
(1) Advertised as “The Five-feet
Bookshelf (and known as such in
the trade), the “Harvard Classics are
a representative collection of world
literary classics. Published in
America, the collection runs to up-
wards of 40 vols. (2) The collection
shows up from time to time m second-
£ and bookshops, and any of these
happening to have it would gladly let
you dip into it.
the necessary apparatus. The holes
and dust which are usually the first
signs of their presence are caused
by mature insects which have grown
to flight-stage and eaten their way
out of the timber, and are then ready
to re-infect it with another genera-
non. As this process goes on con-
stantly, and in various time-stages,
13 impossible to check them unless
they can be killed in the larval form
™ the wood, a most difficult opera-
[ion. Saturating with kerosene is
belptul. Apply to the N.S.W. Forestry
Commission Division 01 Wood Tech-
nology, 96 Harrmgton-street, Sydney,
for a leaflet on the subject.
* * * *
Briefly, what was the purpose of
the Heard Island and MacDonald
Islands Bill passed by the Federal
Parliament?
The Heard Island and MacDonald
Islands Bill, 1953, which was passed
by the Federal Parliament during the
March quarter, provides that the laws
in force from time to time in the
Australian Capital Territory shall
apply to the islands in so far as they
are applicable. Acts of the Federal
Parliament will not apply unless ex-
pressed to extend to the islands, or
applied by ordinance. Since the posi-
tion as between the United Kingdom
and the Australian Governments in
the islands was regularised in 1950
effective Australian control has been
established, and the Act now provides
a certain and adequate system of law.
Brief Answers
J.8.R.: Write Secretary, Forestry
Commission of N.S.W., Box 2667,
G.P.0., Sydney, for pamphlet “1953
Price List of Trees and Shrubs”....
R.R.R.K.: N.S.W. Fisheries Dept,
lias no authentic record of the largest
Murray-cod captured, but one of
the department’s biologists has seen
a cod of 1651 b. It is believed that
there is a record in South Australia
of a cod having attained a weight of
1801 b J.F.A.: Harvest of Mischief
by D. W. Burbridge (Celadon Press,
Melbourne, 1947) is a novel based on
the problem of book-censorship in
Australia, and particularly in Victoria.
W.S.: The best species for this
purpose would be black cypress-pine
{Callitris calcarata ), white cypress-
pine (Callitris glauca), or pencil-pine
{Cupressus sempervirens ). The first
would probably be the fastest-grow-
ing, reaching 8-9 ft. in about six years.
All species would require sandy soils.
P.B.: The Melbourne Cup was
not discontinued during World War 1.
Winners during those years were
Kingsburgh (1914), Patrobus (1915),
Sasanof (1916), Westcourt (1917)
and Nightwatch (1918) S.M.: C.
McVilly of Tasmania won the
Diamond Sculls at Henley (England),
in 1913.... A.M.R.; Preservative
treatment of fence-posts is generally
not practised in Australia. It is
probable, however, that jarrah posts
would be quite expensive in New Zea-
land and some preservative treatment
would be advisable. It is suggested
that new posts be soaked for some
hours in creosote before using and
that already erected posts have a deep
hole bored in them diagonally just
above ground-level and creosote
placed in the hole every year or so.
The holes should be big enough to
allow about a fluid ounce to be added
to each post L.K.: The National
Bank of Australasia, established in
1858, acquired the undertakings of
the Colonial Bank of Australasia in
1918 and the Bank of Queensland in
1922 E.D.: The chough builds a
basin-like nest of mud, lined with
grass, on the horizontal limb of a
tree, and lays five to seven eggs,
yellowish-white blotched all over 'with
olive and purplish-brown... .W.J.J. •
The National Anthem of New Zea-
land is “God Defend New Zealand,
words by Thomas Bracken, tune by
R. A. Horne. It was not consistently
used until 1940... .C.S.: On January
1, 1913, an inter-State exhibition, to
show the progress of Australia since
the inauguration of the Common-
wealth, was opened at Launceston
under the auspices of the Australian
Natives’ Association... .T.D.: The
owlet-nightjar, found throughout
Australia and Tasmania, is the only
species in the family Aigothelidce.
These small birds lay white eggs in
a hole in a tree, and during the day-
time live in holes, uttering a hissing
sound when disturbed... .R.J.8.:
The flannelflower is difficult to propa-
gate; many of the seeds are infertile,
and a few which germinate do not
respond to cultivation. Seedlings
taken from the bush rarely thrive.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.D.: It’s not bad, but there hap-
pened upon us a pile of others that
were a little better F.W.T.: Ditto.
K.D.McK.: “The Wheel” returned
full-circle E.M.C.: Heartbreaking.
D.J.S.; Prospecting story wouldn’t
justify investment J.M.: Much
too complicated... .C.M.: There are
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
two subjects a long married life has
rendered unpalatable to us: women’s
rights and women’s wrongs W. 8.:
Lambeth is outside our jurisdiction.
A.M.: Such sharp points are
uesful only in paragraphs where you
can stick them in and get away before
the, reader quite wakes up to what
has happened D.O’G.: As we
never read both sides of a piece of
paper, it seemed a little disjointed.
P.K.: Your “word-picture ot a
mood” was a good picture, but nor
our kind of mood W.N.W.. It
all right, in a radio-serial sort ot way.
... .D.McK.: Much too slight.. ••
M.C.: Not our kind of tripe at an.
....M.T.8.: Such japes M.K.:
You find short stories “come very
easily to me”; while our experience
is “easy come, easy go” G.M.Cr.:
“His wedding gift was so typical or
him. That first evening together, he
tuned his violin and played her bridal
song.” Afraid that’s not typical
enough for our clientele.. ..J.W.:
Soul-shattering N.L.: Afraid that
unexpected punch was telegraphed on
page 0ne....J.N.: When you are
going to disgrace a war-hero in fic-
tion, you have to show credible
reason....W.C. Tillivalli.. •.J ; A. •
Hardly a story... .D.J.H.: Slight.
P.H.: “I’m warning you. Don’t
read this unless you are a mother.’
Guess that lets us out F.W.T.:
Not quite... .G.S.: Might make a
poem, but who’d believe it in prose?
R.R.C.: Too much b100d....
E.L.: Maybe the writing put us off.
G.M.: A short story should rest
on more than a turn of phrase
J.R.: Hoopygoop... All over
the place... .K.K.: Cute... .P.P.T.:
Thin B.: “They Never Come
Back” must be the exception....
H.H.: You made it up T.L.:
When your story comes to the point
it’s a bit thick W.G.: Hopeless.
....H.8.W.: Not bad, but not quite.
8.8.: Erskine Caldwell did it
better K.N.: Don’t mind puns,
but that one doesn’t justify that story.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
(IN ADYAN
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6 „
9/6 for 3 „
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 ..
7/- for 3 ..
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
The Author of "You're Wrong, Delaney"
ALIAS
Bant Singer
By CECIL MANN
FOR journalistic purposes
“alias” could be defined
as a loaded sort of word,
not usually, nor safely,
applied to anyone outside of
police reports. Yet, for a
variety of reasons besides the
more obvious one, it’s all right
for Bant Singer,
For one thing—as Bulletin
readers will find when You’re
Wrong, Delaney starts next week
as a serial—with Bant Singer
we’re in a world of crime ; and
in this sort of world “alias,” as
it were, naturally belongs. You
can’t get far without one.
The more obvious reason for
applying “alias” to Bant Singer
is the fact—probably passably
well known already—that this
isn’t the author’s real name, but
is borrowed from his these-days
somewhat road-battered Bantam
Singer car.
What can’t be so well known
is that all his own life also,
until quite lately, he had per-
sonally gone under an alias. The
alias of Charles Herbert Shaw,
He has used it whenever he
has had to sign his name in full
at any time in the 53 years since
he first saw whatever light there
was to be seen at South Mel-
bourne on August 10, 1900. And
no questions asked by anybody.
But recently because of a trans-
action requiring a copy of his
birth-certificate, he wrote off to
South Melbourne.
What he found out then was
that the “Herbert” part of his
name was pure unadulterated
alias. So it can fairly be said
that all his life the author of
You’re Wrong, Delaney had used
a name even more purely fic-
titious than the book itself ; for
the story, in its setting, has a
composite background of at once
recognisable Australian reality
from which it could no more be
moved (as Collins, the English
publishers, have sensibly rea-
lised) than you could move, say,
the New South Wales town of
Forbes (which figures largely
and just as vividly in Charles
Shaw’s own story) over to some
purely English or American
locality.
Actually, the American pub-
lishers had a shot at precisely
that. They apparently thought
the Australian idiom of Delaney
and the rest wouldn’t be under-
stood over there. Apparently,
too, they gave up their “trans-
lating” job about halfway
through, with the wonderful
result that in the American
edition Delaney and co. talk
good tough American of the
Spillane variety for that much
of the way and then, with occa-
sional lapses, they talk good
Australian to the finish ; prob-
ably the greatest tribute the
strength of the Australian idiom
has ever had paid to it.
It’s an idiom with which alias
Bant Singer is much more than
merely familiar. Jt’s his natural
conversational medium, with a
strong flavoring of the essence of
the bush mixed in with it.
Despite his having been a city-
dweller for some years now, that
something of the bush still
manages to cling about his total
sft. sin.; the way he wears his
clothes ; his general outlook ; his
way of speaking ; an impression
of being ready to admit that the
other bloke might be right.
As to all which, it would be a
much more remarkable thing if
it wasn’t so. For not too many
have had to go it the hard way
to the extent of battling experi-
ence that’s packed into alias
Bant Singer’s own personal
story.
He was orphaned, suddenly,
before he was 14. When he was
about four they had moved
from South Melbourne to the
country, up into the Victorian
Mallee. They were still there,
at St. Arnaud, after having been
longer at the biblically-named
wheat-town of Beulah, when
Charles’s father died in Mildura.
Then his mother was drowned in
the Big River, the Murray.
There were five others, all
younger than Charles, who were
taken by friends or relations.
The oldest, at the working age
of 14, Charles preferred to shift
for himself, and so came to do
his share of laboring in the vine-
yard ; at Mildura ; eight-bob a
BY ARTIST
(Dubois)
week and keep; ploughing,
pruning, fruit-picking, dipping
the fruit and so on, including
irrigating.
Of the lot, it’s the irrigating
that sticks; a job that goes on
day and night —all night—for
days.. .You remember it when
you’ve stayed awake working all
night at that age.
A similar sort of job next at
Tapalin, up the Murray, on the
Big Bend, where you’re 17 miles
from Euston by road and 90
miles from the same place by
river. Back then to Mildura;
driving horse-lorries, pruning,
ploughing ; seasonal jobs. Then
down back into the Mallee to do
a wheat harvest and a variety of
odd jobs, including a month
with a dairyman.
You don’t forget dairying,
either, once you’ve tried it. The
dairyman is battling and scratch-
ing along on his bit of a place,
just existing. When you leave
at the end of the month he has
to sell a pig to pay you.
So, with about a fiver in your
pocket, you head out on the
road again and fall in with a
cobber, Emil the Dane. A
runaway sailor, Emil is typical
Teuton; big, blond, moody;
with, apart from what he stands
up in, four possessions in the
world and only four, all mouth-
organs. And can he play them!
You’ve since heard plenty
others, among them Larry
Adler. Even Larry couldn’t
beat Emil the Dane. Emil
didn’t live on his four mouth-
organs ; he lived for them.
Once, though, they help keep
you in tucker on the road.
But that’s after you’ve been
to Adelaide. It’s the first big
city you’ve seen, since you can’t
remember Melbourne or even
South Melbourne. But you, and
Emil, move on from the City of
Churches, finding it not so
plentifully stocked with jobs as
with steeples, and you’ve heard
that there might be something
more in your general unskilled
line up Hamley Bridge way. By
the time you get to Gawler,
though, you’re stony-broke.
That’s where Erriil plays on his
mouth-organs for mercenary
gain. You yourself take round
the hat. And so, with some
funds, to Hamley Bridge, where
you’re in time to get into its
football team for the 1921
season.
Australian Rules, of course.
For one thing, you’re a Vic-
torian ; for another, this is
South Aus.; for yet another, it
leaves all other games at the
back gate. You’re a rover and
forward. And then there’s some-
thing else about Australian
Rules football, too ; only for it
you might easily have remained
Charles Shaw (with the “Her-
bert” alias), knockabout un-
skilled bush laborer, and not got
the chance that led on to be-
coming alias Bant Singer. But
that’s later on.
Meanwhile, the Hamley
Bridge job is at the railway-
yards, lumping the goods
from one gauge to the other.
For reasons that aren’t clear...
he’s a moody sort of bloke...
it doesn’t appeal to Emil. He
goes on alone. For all you
know, he may still be knocking
about out there, still with noth-
BY CAMERA
(Adelynne Studio)
ing bar what he stands up in
and his four mouth-organs. On
the other hand, of course, he
might have played his way into
the heart of a widow and be
sitting pretty with a sheep-
station.
Anyway, you yourself stay on
with the Hamley Bridge job, and
the football; and one day
there’s another chap arranges to
go to the Gawler races with you.
By now you’ve grown into a
general liking for horses, and
follow them; but one way and
another going to the Gawler
races doesn’t come off.
Then there’s a cove down in
the Victorian Mallee who writes
offering you a clearing-and-
fencing contract, so you take it
on. You have this other chap
there as your mate. He’s one of
those big, dry sort of bushmen.
Scared of nobody, and a great
worker. You’re working there
for some time, and you’re deter-
mined, both of you, to see the
Melbourne Cup. So you both
send your measurements down
to a tailor in Melbourne, and
get your suits, and when you
board the train on the Saturday
before the Cup you’re holding
about 50 or 60 quid apiece.
On the way down you get
mixed up in a game of nap with
a couple of coves who board
the train; and, anyway, the
centre’s built up to nine quid
when you get dealt a hand, ace,
king, queen, jack and nine of
spades. Of course you go nap,
and one of these other chaps is
holding a string of rags to the
ten. It costs you nine quid into
the centre, so there’s 18 quid
there when only a couple of
hands later your mate gets the
same hand as you had, in
hearts. That’s where they made
their mistake. They didn’t have
enough patience. If they’d
waited a few hands more per-
haps it might have been differ-
ent. As it was, he just gets up.
He’s a big bloke, and he stands
at the door.
“How much did you put into
the centre?” he says.
“Nine quid.”
“All right, take it out.”
They protest, of course.
“Listen, you two,” he says.
“We work hard for our money,
and we’re not making blokes
like you a present of it. Now
take your own and get out!”
So, on the Tuesday you both
go to see the Cup, with your roll
more or less intact. You’ve both
had one or two bets when it
comes to the big race, and
you’re looking through the race-
book when you come on one
called King Ingoda. He’s a
Comedy King; and then you
remember —he’s the horse that
won a Flying at that Gawler
meeting you’d intended going to.
So you decide they haven’t
brought him all that way for
nothing, and you both have a
couple of quid on him, and
home he rolls, and you’ve got
enough not to have to start look-
ing for another job till after
Christmas.
Meanwhile, the mate goes off
back to South Australia, where
his people have a property, and
in the New Year you take on a
job as a general laborer with
the Sunshine Harvester people.
It’s all fight, but on it you start
off thinking you might be doing
something better, and you
notice there’s a crowd running
courses on journalism and sales-
manship and so forth. They
must be good salesmen, because
you go along with the idea of
seeing about the journalism
course, having a feeling that you
might be able to write a bit, and
they talk you into taking the
course on salesmanship.
Anyway, it gets you a job with
an estate agent out at Moonee
Ponds. You’re there for about
a month —it’s now 1923 —when
one Saturday night you’re with
a mate who’s an ex-Digger in a
picture-show in Bourke-street,
and about nine o’clock there’s
an appeal by Monash put on
the screen. It’s what Melbourne
remembers as the police riots.
The police have gone out on
strike, so Melbourne’s without
police, and the underworld has
broken loose. It’s the time of
“Squizzy” Taylor and Buckley
the “Grey Ghost,” who was in
the news the other day when he
died at 90. It’s a real
underworld, and a pretty nasty
one, and it’s out.
Monash wants anyone who
can help to go along to the
Town Hall, and the Digger’s
going, so you think you might as
well be in it. There you’re all
issued with batons, and bits of
hose and lumps of wood and
other things, with cardboard and
straw to put in your hats.
Monash addresses you briefly.
“Hit first,” he says, “and
arg. afterwards.”
That’s the slogan. So you
get mixed up in the riot, and
you see things you wouldn’t
have believed possible. In no
time there isn’t a pane of glass
left unsmashed right round the
Block, and you see decent-look-
ing sorts of girls stepping in over
the broken glass and trying on
things in the shops and walking
out with what fits them. Men,
too, who normally wouldn’t
touch a thing that didn’t belong
to them. There are other things,
too, that you couldn’t have be-
lieved unless you saw them. It’s
a close-up of crime out in the
open. It’s really an orgy of
everything, sex included, and it
all bursts out again afresh for
nights. There’s one or ‘two
killed; two or three hundred
taken to Melbourne Hospital.
It takes the best part of a month
before things get really normal
again.
And then there’s the damage-
claims afterwards, and a job
going as a clerk with a bunch
doing some of the claims investi-
gating. So you take it on, and
there’s all sorts of claims to be
investigated. One chap claims
for a pair of torn trousers.
There are claims for lost dogs.
It takes a couple of months
settling them all up, and then it
leads on to a sort of public-
service job down in the Repat.
building below Princes Bridge,
but somehow you don’t belong
there, and next you’re out
Gippsland and Lang Lang
way, working on a road job
spreading metal. Then, with
another mate, up to Echuca, and
different jobs, including a
longish stretch on a clearing
job on the New South Wales side
of the Murray, and enough coin
amassed in time to go down to
Melbourne again for Windbag’s
Cup, doing your roll, however,
on Manfred.
And so, back to the bush ; and
this time something in the way
of steady employment, looking
after a sheep-stud belonging to
Tatalia station. But you haven’t
yet given that course in sales-
manship a decent trial; so, after
chewing this over a good bit,
once more to Melbourne, selling
vacuum-cleaners and suburban
land, or trying to. No go.
So it’s driving a truck with
bricks and building-materials
and so forth round Melbourne,
and to Gippsland, and up to
Ballarat, till one Saturday you
land back from one of these
runs to find the job has gone,
and the boss with it. He’s gone
o Continued on page 34)


GOLCHISONE
the sensationally effective
NEW treatment brings
SWIFT, SURE
RELIEF from
GIUT
WEUMAHSM
and other conditions which cause pain, inflammation
and swelling of joints and limbs snch as
SCIATICA • LUMBAGO • FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! Scien-
tific research into the cause
of those pains and aches in
joints and limbs from which
you suffer shows that in the
vast majority of cases they
are due to a “Gouty” con-
dition the result of urates
forming through excessive
uric acid in the blood.
By dispersing and eliminat-
ing these URATES and at
the same time counteracting
the URIC ACID conditions,
COLCHISONE brings
almost immediate relief.
Taken at the first signs of
an att. k, it helps prevent
a worsening of your condi-
tion, bat even if you suffer
from GOUT or RHEUMA-
TISM in its advanced stages
you will find the results just
as effective. Pain, swelling
and inflammation of the
hands, feet, elbows, knees,,
ankles and shoulders will
fast disappear and you will
regain the freedom of move-
ment you had given up as
lost.
COLCHISONE is a specific
for Gouty Rheumatic condi-
tions. It is a Colchicum-
Apium - Guaiacol treatment
never before available in
Australia. Each one of its
ingredients is effective in
itself, but it is the special
method of. combining all
three that makes it so com-
pletely successful. It is . . .
ECONOMICAL One
bottle contains several
months’ supply.
HARMLESS There are
no unpleasant results or
after-effects.
RELIABLE It brings
prompt relief in even the
most obstinate cases.
COLCHISONE
From your
chemist
PRICE
17/6
30/-
Small
Size
Large
Economy
With valuable
food chart .
The Parse Economy
Size is a complete
treatment with reserve.
If you have any diffi-
culty in obtaining
COLCHISONB, write
direct to the sole Aus-
tralian Distributors:
Richard Medical
Products Pty. Ltd.,
21 Oxford St., Sydney
m
IX L
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed ,
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
SPORTING NOTIONS
Randwick curator George
Johnson and his staff had the
Randwick racetrack and sur-
roundings in grand order for the
opening day of the AJ.C. spring
carnival on Saturday. Years
ago the stands were drab affairs
on race days, but that has all
changed, and now there is a pro-
fusion of beautiful flowers on all
sides.
Curator Johnson intimated
before the meeting began that
the course proper was never in
better order, and that he’d not
be surprised should some new
records be made. Silver
Phantom, in winning the Epsom
Handicap in 1.34 J-, ran the
fastest mile in Australian history.
His time was a quarter of a
second better than that of
Shannon, whose 1.34| was run
at Randwick on October 7, 1946.
Silver Phantom’s record-time
win from Tarien and
Carioca was a brilliant feat of
galloping, and, despite opinions
to the contrary, it seemed
extremely doubtful whether
Carioca would have won the race
in any circumstances. He
certainly wasn’t assisted by the
fall of High Law and Bon
Rouge, but at that time he was
many lengths behind the flying
grey, who at the end of
the hard-run mile didn’t appear
to be flat-out to land the big end
of the prizemoney (£3799 to
owner M. R. Campbell).
Silver Phantom’s Epsom
success was a tribute to trainer
Jack Green, who timed the
horse’s preparation to the
minute. Tarien’s 8.12 seemed
just a little too much for the
gallant mare, and she did well
to pick up second money (£800).
Silver Phantom is a first-
acceptor for both Caulfield Cup
and Melbourne Cup, and as he is
closely related to Lambourn, a
winner of the two-miles Wel-
lington (N.Z.) Cup and to former
Dominion stayer Beaupartir, he
should have excellent prospects
in Melbourne, particularly at
Caulfield. Costing 3700gns. as
a yearling. Silver Phantom is by
Nizami (imp.) from Midnight
Fox by Foxbridge (imp.) from
Cutie by Nigger Minstrel. Fox-
bridge is sire of the dams of
Melbourne Cup winners Hiraji
and Foxzami, so Silver Phantom
has staying credentials.
The A.J.C. Derby, won by the
favorite. Prince Morvi, from
outsiders Electro and High
Forest, was run in particularly
fast time for that classic, 2.31^ —
half a second only outside the
record time for the race made in
1929 by Phar Lap, since when
the only three-year-old to break
2.32 was Main Topic in 1942,
when he covered the mile and a
half in 2.31^.
The Derby was a real staying-
test for Prince Morvi, who might
add the Victoria Derby to his
record. The fast time was
brought about by Victorian colt
Silver Hawk, who didn’t appear
to have been ridden with skill,
but maybe he proved more than
a handful for his young rider;
after doing most of the pace-
work he retired when the
pressure was applied.
Prince Morvi, who earned a
stake of £8033, has proved a
goldmine for owners Joe Harris
and Steve Blau; the racing
partners who won the 1952
Sydney Cup with Opulent.
Prince Morvi is the best son of
imported Gaekwar’s Pride to
have raced in Australia ; he cost
1050gns. at the Randwick
yearling sales. The colt is
engaged in the Melbourne Cup,
in which his original weight was
7.1, success in the classic now
lifting it to w,-f.-a. (7.6). He has
now earned £14,000 in stakes.
Neville Sellwood made about
£650 at Randwick on Saturday
last within about an hour and a
half, his combined percentage
from the wins by Prince Morvi,
Silver Phantom and Hydrogen,
in successive events. And that
may be little fish to what he will
get from the respective owners.
Sellwood, it should be said, is a
particularly smart and intelligent
horseman.
First two-year-old race of the
Sydney season, the £2OOO
Breeders’ Plate, was won by
Lindbergh, an aptly-named bay
colt by Transatlantic (imp.) from
Dare, and raced by H. W. and
N. H. Bishop, who paid 800gns.
for him at the yearling sales at
Randwick last April. Trained
by Harry Damon for his fine
win over favorite Pipes of Pan
and Indian Empire, Lindbergh
had shown excellent pre-race
galloping form.
Lindbergh’s Breeders’ Plate
win naturally gives Transatlantic
a great start as a sire here.
Transatlantic, a son of Colombo,
is closely related to Pensive, a
winner of the Kentucky Derby
(U.S.A.). Dare, dam of the
Breeders’ Plate winner, is by
Heroic from Our Dell by Boni-
form. Though both sire and
dam of the colt were winners
over sprint courses, the family
lines include Mutable, a winner
of the then 2i-miles Australian
Cup, and of Calibrate, a winner
of the two-miles New Zealand
Cup. Lindbergh was the first of
Transatlantic’s progeny to enter
the safe-ring and bidding was
keen.
Highlight of today’s (Wednes-
day) racing at Randwick will be
the Craven Plate (U mile;
weight-for-age), which has been
won by some of the best horses
to have graced the Australian
Turf. Last year Hydrogen beat
Deep River and Pressman, and
the previous season was first
home from Davey Jones and
Free Kick,
Noted horsemen of the past
won the Craven Plate more than
once, notably Jim Munro, Jim
Pike, Ted Bartle, Ted McMena-
min and George Young. Last-
named was the rider of New
Zealander Gloaming, who beat
Beauford and Violoncello in
the 1922 race and in the presence
of a much bigger crowd than
attended Randwick last Satur-
day. Darby Munro, who won
the race last October on Hydro-
gen, had previously been
successful on Beau Vite and
Young Idea. In successive years
(1929, ’3O and ’3l) Phar Lap was
successful, and in the following
three years Chatham, one of the
greatest milers in Turf history,
was the winner.
Caulfield’s 5000 Guineas (one
mile) is the star attraction of
die opening day of the
V-A.T.C.’s spring carnival this
coming Saturday. A week later
the £10,350 Caulfield Cup will
be decided. Few three-year-olds
have landed the AJ.C. Derby-
Caulfield Guineas double, be-
cause most winners of the Rand-
wick classic have skipped the
Caulfield mile to compete in the
Victoria Derby. Last winner of
both A.J.C. Derby and Caul-
field Guineas was Nuffield in
1938. Others have included
Ammon Ra (1931), Theo (1934),
Rampion (1926) and Heroic
(1924). Lucrative, High Caste
and Ajax, minor A.J.C. Derby
placegetters, went to Melbourne
a few days later and won the
Guineas. Last Sydney winner
of the Guineas was Hydrogen,
two years ago.
Prince Morvi will probably
encounter tougher company in
the Victoria Derby at Fleming-
ton. Those that finished behind
him at Randwick seem to have
their work cut out to down him
on the V.R.C. track, and Mel-
bourne owners will be hoping
they can produce a colt as a
worthy contender for the much
lower money-value Derby stake
than that won at Randwick.
One such colt may be Gold
Milla, easy winner of the
V.R.C.’s October Handicap (li
mile) for three-year-olds at
Flemington last Saturday. Gold
Milla started at 6 to 4 and won
well from Baloo and Engraver.
Gold Milla, placed at his last
four starts —two wins, a second
and a third —is regarded as a
real V.R.C, Derby hope. He
had previously scored at Flem-
ington with 8.1 over the same
distance, and he carried an addi-
tional 81b. on Saturday. He is
a son of High Peak (imp.) and
Why Hurry, and is owned and
trained by R. Roach. Why
Hurry is a Chatham mare from
Bimilla by Excitement (imp.).
The progeny of High Peak have
won numerous races. He is a
son of Hyperion.
>1 • • •:
Veteran John Wren (now 83)
started the Victorian two-year-
old season off in fine style with
wins in both divisions of the
Maribyrnong Trial for colts and
geldings (about 4\ furlongs).
Tenet, at 5 to 4, won the first
division, and Fascinating, at 10
to 9 on, the second, and the
latter had a dozen lengths to
spare at the finish, so he might
be something out of the box.
Fascinating is by Valognes (imp.)
from Magnificent Lady by Ajax,
and as he is related to Ajixa
and Pantomime it is little won-
der he shows abundant speed.
Oldest progeny of Valognes
(who won races in England from
seven furlongs to mile) are
now two-year-olds. Tenet is a
son of Dhoti (imp.) and Credo,
and was bred by his owner.
Credo is by Enfield (imp.) from
Credit by Paper Money (imp.).
Speedy Barfleur, raced by
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter,
and winner of the A.J.C. Hobart-
ville Stakes and other races, and
a candidate for the Caulfield
Guineas, is a son of Valognes.
Three well-fancied runners
filled the places in the V.R.C.
Turnbull Stakes, run at weight-
for-age over a mile and a half
and regarded as a Caulfield Cup
trial. The winner, Petrograd,
who had finished fourth in the
Underwood Stakes at Caulfield,
has 8.3 in that Cup. However,
it was right on the post only
that he beat the popular Caul-
field Cup hope. Quite Talk, who
has 8.8 in the mile-and-a-half.
Welloch, third, has Bst. in the
Cup. He was last into the
straight, so there appeared merit
in his display. As Quite Talk
carried 9.12, his effort was top-
class from the Caulfield Cup
viewpoint.
Gilt Crag, a sister to the
former brilliant galloper Temer-
aire, has finished racing and has
been sent to the stud at Muttama
(N.S.W.), where she will be
mated with imported Golden
Hackle. Gilt Crag, a powerfully-
built mare, showed plenty of
speed though not much stamina.
She won seven races for Rose-
bery trainer Bland Beck, who
has won a number of races
lately with Perisher and other
members of his team. Bred the
same way as Temeraire, Gilt
Crag might produce speedy
progeny. Golden Hackle is one
of the few Hyperion’s at the stud
in N.S.W., and this is the
first year his progeny will
be racing.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vlce-Ohaiman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
They Drain the Cup
CHINESE WINE
By MABEL WALN SMITH
SEVERAL thousand years
before Christ, China made
the world’s first attempt at
prohibition. It was not a
success.
Ta Yii, the Great Virtuous,
had just founded China’s initial
dynasty and become her Em-
peror. He was an excellent man
who took his job seriously. “I
think only of working inces-
santly every day,” he said, sow-
ing the seeds of that quality
which makes Orientals such pets
when they’re laboring for us,
and such pests when we’re in
competition with them.
Outside his palace—a semi-
cave lined with grey rocks on
the banks of the upper Yellow
River—Great Virtuous hung
five instruments so that by bang-
ing on one or another of them a
subject seeking audience could
make known his particular
needs in advance.
Thus the Emperor, fore-
warned, always had ready a wise
answer by the time he fumbled
his way from the twilit interior
of his domicile to the broad early-
morning light of his outside
entrance where hung the instru-
ments —a skin drum, a bronze
gong, a rough triangle, a deep-
sounding bell, and a hard lump
of stone.
One morning in primeval
spring there came such a bang-
ing on all five instruments at
once that Great Virtuous sprang
from his night’s rest, threw a
garment round him, and, bring-
ing his long hair to a neatness
by clutching it with one hand a-
top his head, he made for his
front door.
Now he was used to such
mythological creatures as
dragons which have heads like
camels, horns of a stag, eyes of
a demon, necks of a snake, claws
like an eagle, soles of the feet
like a tiger, and glowing scales
of gold. But this standing before
him was something else again.
The squat figure stood no
more than waist high to a man,
yet its head was larger than an
adult’s. Under one arm was a
fantastic brown jug made from
the root of a tree. Inside this
jug was a golden liquid distilled
from millet grain.
“Wine! ” said I-ti, inviting the
Emperor to dip his hand into it.
“I-ti is a dwarf,” volunteered
a handmaiden, stepping from the
shadows, docile and ready to
help a man, as were women in
those bygone days. And just
as full of startling bits of infor-
“I brought the wine!” interrupted the dwarf.
mation and double-talk as today.
“He belongs to the one of your
nine provinces called the Wild
Domain. There, at a tender age,
he was placed in a vase with a
narrow neck and a movable
bottom. In this receptacle he
was kept for years, in a sitting
posture, his head outside being
all the while tended and fed.
Now that he’s twenty years old
he lives entirely outside the vase.
Interesting, eh? How tastes the
wine?”
The Emperor stood there
speechless, licking the golden
liquid from his dripping hand.
Never in his entire ninety-three
years of life had he felt so care-
free, so strong and yet so devil-
hang-it-all-anyway about putting
his strength to good purpose.
No work today, certainly. Abso-
lutely delicious, this concoction!
“Great Virtuous is wonder-
ful,” explained the fragile hand-
maiden, impressing the dwarf.
“Unlike many of his predeces-
sors, one of whom was sired by
the footsteps of a giant, another
by a flash of lightning, our
Emperor had two human beings
for parents. He’s practical. He
levies tribute according to those
honest things each piece of
country naturally brings forth”
“I brought the wine,” inter-
rupted the dwarf.
“Our Emperor dug nine canals
to control this end of the world
flood, now backed up ready to
bedevil Noah,” said the hand-
maiden, raising her finger for
attention. “How far-reaching
our Emperor’s glorious energy.
But for him we should all have
been fishes!”
That’s torn it, thought the
Emperor, shaking his head to
clear it. She’s left no course
but for me to slog along at
earnest projects . . , banish this
delightful fellow and his care-
lifting drink. Maybe she’s right.
Marshalling all the caution in-
herited from a world so recently
emerged from dark, writhing
chaos, he assembled the
strongest words ever created,
and lurching toward the dwarf
he shouted: “Git going!”
There was a scurry of small
feet as I-ti disappeared in the
distance. Great Virtuous, his
back bowed, returned inside his
domicile for breakfast.
That night, paradoxically,
there was wine on the palace
table.
“Samshu, you’ve named it,”
demurely whispered the hand-
maiden, with lips of enchanting
tenderness and curves made
from that clay which later
fashioned Lilith, the ancestress
of Eve.
Thus ended the world’s first
attempt at prohibition.
Since then the Chinese have
never looked back. By the time
Noah was planting the world’s
first grapevine, the Chinese were
sampling a jug of their second
type of wine: a light variety
made from fermented rice, and
called shaoshing. Their Imperial
Pleasure Court had moved from
the cold north—where is grown
millet, its potent, liqueur-like
distillation pleasing to folk
battling deep snow and biting
winds —to the balmy climate of
Hangchow, “Earth’s Heaven.”
Here, amidst the natural
scenic beauty of lake and moun-
tain, architects created flower
pagodas, dreamy palaces with
overhanging balconies and roofs
so curly that bad spirits shot
high into the air instead of get-
ting in through your house door,
and chefs prepared repasts for
gourmets who sat on those
sturdily-built but delicately-
colored upturned earthenware
kongs so cherished by today’s
collectors.
In the cool shade of the bam-
boos, declivities were made
where mountain water, trickling
Yang and Yin
good-health
charm.
crystal - clear
from rocky
heights, could
lie at peace.
Youths wan-
dered through
these ferny
glens sipping
the sparkling
waters. Coolies
plodded
through them
with a carrying-pole slung across
a shoulder, a slopping wooden
bucket balanced on each end,
transporting this special water —
a necessary addition to the rice,
soft boiled to “must” (a semi-
liquid which in fermenting re-
leases carbon-dioxide gas and
converts sugar to alcohol) and
placed in open-mouthed hard-
clay tubs for fermentation. For
these were the “Wine Springs”
spoken of in ancient rhyme and
fable.
Everyone drank wine—gossip-
ing in the shade of the Six Har-
monies Pavilion, pausing on
mountain expeditions to do those
rock-carvings we cherish these
long years after, and crossing
the Green Jade Bridge to the
Island of the Three Pools and
Moon’s Reflection. Everywhere
were comfortable little wine-
shops with tiny three-thimble-
size cups made of bronze or
porcelain, to be filled from
individual jugs shaped like a
peach-stone, a sleeping cricket,
or perhaps a quartz chunk, each
in a hot-water container, because
wine in China —both samshu and
shaoshing—are always served at
body temperature dr hotter.
What with all undertakings
furthering happiness and fruit-
fulness being done in spring and
summer, and all harsh things
such as hunting, executions, cut-
ting down trees and war being
relegated to autumn and winter,
for hundreds of years everyone
knew where he stood and hence
enjoyed a fine hearty life —in-
cluding each head of a succes-
sion of Imperial families ; be-
cause what’s the use of being an
Emperor if you don’t have a
good time?
With nonchalant acceptance
of the extraordinary, China
scarcely noticed Nero fiddling
while Rome burned, but she did
take umbrage at the way the
Romans were adulterating their
wine. Both they and the Greeks
had got the recipe for distilling
from the Asiatics. Now they
were soaking wood-chips in it to
give color, and adding wood-
smoke for body. A Han Em-
peror, using a stylus, even sent
a series of warning picture-sym-
bols on a strip of bamboo —a
simple enough letter for anyone
to read. But no answer came
from' that part of the world
which soon, led by the Persians,
made wine solely of dates or
grapes.
Shortly after the beginning of
a.d. the Three Kingdoms ruled
in China. Ch’ao Ch’ao was the
current Robin Hood, He robbed
the rich, fed the poor, and
struggled to eliminate wars. This
entailed fighting most everyone
within reach —which he did with
gusto —so there was not much
peace.
“And when I die bury me near
the kilns,” he used to shout
merrily during a lull in the sing-
ing at an inn, where boon com-
panions sat surrounded by
heaped dishes of peanuts, savory
bits of ham, chicken-necks,
toasted goose-livers, and full
wine-bowls. “Later use the soil
my body has fertilised as clay to
make the wine-pots. Then shall
I never be parted from wine! ”
When a call came that the
enemy stood without, Ch’ao
Ch’ao would quickly order a
special soup made from fresh-
water fish highly seasoned with
chopped green pepper. Thus
sobered and alert, he and his
men rushed away to meet the
foe. His method of clearing the
head lasts down to present-day
China. .
By the time the First Fleet had
reached Sydney Cove, bringing,
among other things, grape-seeds
and -cuttings for the planting of
Australia’s first vines, China had
settled down to the six or seven
simple kinds of wine found to-
day on her wineshop shelves,
all made from either millet or
rice—the former of much higher
alcohol-content than the latter.
Most Asiatics —including the
Russians, who distil their best
vodka from wheat —prefer the
body-taste to be definitely grain.
Although for several centuries
the iron-handed Mongols ruled
China, they could never make
her drink their clear, sharp
native wine, which is distilled
from mares’-milk and is very
refreshing.
The Chinese stuck to their
own methods, and if they want
other than a natural white or
golden color they add a certain
tasteless wild red berry until
their wine, becomes the desired
shade of pink, rose or garnet.
Such as the “Dainty Red Maid,”
urns of which are set aside when
a daughter is born, to be opened
at her wedding. Theirs are sound
The Chinese stuck to their own methods.
wines, sometimes fine, but never
sparkling. '■
The Chinese have concen-
trated, too, on “medicinal
wines.” They feel that when a
person is ill the Yang and the
Yin, the male and the female
principle, is out of balance in
Lis body; hence he requires
special nourishing. Native medi-
cine is given in the form of a
thick soup. The kind I once
prepared from a popular recipe
had succulent bits of lobster,
grilled tomato, tender mush-
rooms and shaoshing in it. When
sampled, just off the boil, it
tasted not unlike French bouiUcy
baisse enlivened by a double
dash of sherry. Well worth being
sick for!
I began my colorful sojourn
in China after she had become a
Republic and was readjusting to
this new idea. That is, during
the heyday of her modern war-
lords, She had many advisers,
including the sincere and non-
drinking Australian, W. H.
Donald. There was also “Mad-
boy” O’Riley.
Ever-adventurous, “Mad-boy”
had caused our treaty-port life
to become the quieter and the
poorer by his disappearance
from its then gay security some
three or so years earlier. He had
come back.
“How are you getting on?” I
said to him one day in my
living-room, after he and the
war-lord he was bodyguarding
had settled into a castle-like
Chinese house separated from
our garden only by a thick high
wall of staunch red brick. En-
circled by these immense walls
anc * barricaded in with tw
huisky Cossack henchmen a
each impenetrable entrance, t ey
were resting a few weeks from
fierce war they and their
P™ate army carried on with
riva^s or P° wer further nor h.
“How is me Charge, do you
ask?” said “Mad-boy.” “He’s
a foine big lad o’ sixty-odd.
Indeed. Now that Ive learned
th. e secret of his amazing con-
stitution I contrive that he
remains in perfect condition
both in sickness and in health,
Alcohol does it. Devil, and it
laves me time for a thought to
myself,”
Draining his whisky-and-soda
at'one gulp, he seized my arm
warmly, chuckling as he pro-
pelled me through the open door
and across my summer garden
to . * e . hlgh , waU - , fro ”
whlch he removed a loose brick.
“Take a peek now,” he com-
manded. “Observe me War-lord
in full regalia!”
What I saw was amazing
strange to a Quaker from Phila-
delphia. There, beyond the
moon-gate, under the willqw-
trees beside the lotus-pool, sat
a hefty Chinese of tall, wide,
northern build. On his head was
the usual round black silk hat
with its red official button a-top,
and his long padded gown was
fastened close to his bull neck.
But his bosom was plastered
with home-coined medals, and
oh each knee sat a girl. One
was a luscious White Russian
whose golden tresses rippled
down over a leaf-green Parisian
model frock. The other was a
svelte Chinese with close-
moulded blue-black hair, a red
split dress, and movements like
soft flowing music.
From the low wine-table
beside them, these sylphs were
heating shaoshing, and holding
tiny fabulous three-thimble solid
gold cups, in turn, to the smack-
ing lips of the enchanted war-
lord. First blonde, then brunette
. . . blonde . ; . brunette . . .
blonde . . .
Ever noted for their wine
games, the Chinese had now
added this one to that long list
whose purpose is to entice the
imbiber to drink. The call-word
is “ Kanpei!” as they drain the
cup.
China has imposed prohibi-
tion on herself more than forty-
one times, to our knowledge,
during her five thousand years
of existence. Each time, since
the Age of Great Virtuous, it
was not for moral reasons but
because of grain shortage. As
soon as crops of millet and rice
generous enough for both food
and drink were assured, distill-
ing was resumed. But then, as
Li-tai-po, China’s most-read
poet, says in ending his every-
where-known drinking-song:
Only those in the midst of it can
fully comprehend the joys
of wine.
I do not proclaim them to the
sober.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. G. Parker. i
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
'Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States,
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREA: RHEE'S VIEWS
In reports, editorial comments
and cartoons in the British Press,
Korean President Syngman
Rhee is almost invariably repre-
sented as merely a cantankerous
old man, a fanatical crank, if
not worse, and a dangerous
nuisance.
This is probably the general
view of him here also, such acts
of his as the releasing of the
25,000 Korean anti-Communist
p.-0.-w. at a very ticklish stage
of the truce negotiations having
been represented as sheer irres-
ponsible Oriental fanaticism,
likely to prevent the truce and
possibly even start World War
111. It did neither, and, in fact,
it brought results, as Rhee has
shown in the course of a striking
interview featured by “U.S.
News and World Report.”
Some of the Diggers back
from Korea, too, hold that Rhee
has a case, and state that he is
far from being a mere fanatical
figure to his own countrymen.
They say also that his actions
in the course of the peace con-
ference will be something to
watch and could have vital
effects. This is indicated by his
own interview statements, the
more significant of which are
here given.
Asked, to begin with, if he
had any faith in Eisenhower’s
aim of achieving unification of
Korea by peaceful means, Rhee
said:
“I am sorry to say I do not.
‘Pravda’ has said that Russia
desires reunification of Korea as
much as we do. As all the world
knows, the Communists would
gladly have a reunited Korea
under Communist control.
Naturally, they will try to
achieve this through the con-
ference. They will mask their
design as much as they can,
hoping to win ‘neutralist nation’
support for their plan. Mean-
while, they will vilify and
slander my Government to do
all in their power to convince
the world that Korea would be
better off under any kind of
government whatsoever than the
Republic of Korea. Many dupes
and fellow-travellers in America
and elsewhere will echo what
they say.
“You may notice, as a curious
coincidence, that all the Govern-
ments that lie under the shadow
of Russian power are widely
denounced as being unrepresen-
tative and worse. But you may
also notice that as fast as pos-
sible the people who are held
captive under the ‘beneficent
rule’ of the Communist States
slip across the Iron Curtain to
seek salvation under those same
slandered Governments. We
know what propaganda is com-
ing. We only ask our friends
abroad to remember that some
four million Koreans from the
North have managed to escape
from the Communists to join us
in the period 1945-53.”
The interview, in Question
and Answer form, proceeded on
these lines:
Q.: “What do you believe the
Communist tactics will be at the
peace conference ? Will they
stall for time or will they make
a> sincere effort to negotiate a
peace ?”
A.: “The words ‘sincere’ and
‘peace’ are hardly relevant in
discussing the Communists.
They naturally would stall for a
time if they could—as they
always have—but we have fore-
stalled them by our agremeent
with the U.S. to walk out jointly
after 90 days if the conference
proves a failure. Of course, the
Communists will use the time
they have to confuse and divide
the Allies all they can. They will
offer plans that may appear
reasonable to peoples who are
not immediately endangered, or
whose very survival is not now
at stake, as is ours.
“The Communists know that
—London “Daily Express”
“ SORRY—CAN’T COME IN—YOU’RE NOT PROPERLY DRESSED!”
some of the U.N. members want
trade with the Communist
empire at all costs. They know
some are willing to buy tem-
porary safety for themselves at
the cheap cost of conceding
away the rights of other nations
—apparently forgetting that, in
escaping from being among the
first victims, they only postpone
their own destruction for a
time.”
Q.: “What measures will you
use to determine whether the
Communists are stalling ? That
is, how will you determine the
point at which the peace con-
ference no longer appears worth
while ?”
A.: “The measure is very
simple and clear: Are the
Chinese Red armies, which have
been branded by the United
Nations as aggressors, ready to
withdraw from Korea? If they
are, they can say so very simply.
If not, the conference is a
failure. There can be no doubt
whatsoever in anyone’s mind
about this—-unless the repeated
U.N. insistence that its goal is
the reunification of Korea under
its own independent and demo-
cratic Government is just so
many words. So long as this
fundamental test is kept in mind,
there never need be any doubt
as to the success or failure of the
peace conference.”
Q.: “Have you set a fixed
time - limit on how long the
Republic of Korea will attend
the conference if there are no
signs of success ?”
A.: “Maximum limit is 90
days, but of course we may
leave sooner if it is apparent the
Communists have no intention
of agreeing to the fundamental
requirement and merely intend
to use the conference for vicious
slander and propaganda.”
Q.; “If the Republic of Korea
withdraws from the conference,
will the United States shut off
military and economic aid? If
any implied threats have been
made that this will be done,
would it deter you in any way ?”
A.: “The U.S. Government
will not use its humanitarian-aid
programme as a political weapon
to control our basic decision.
If we decide to walk out of the
conference before 90 days have
elapsed, I am confident the U.S.
will either walk out with us or,
at the minimum, will give its
tacit approval to our action.”
Q.: “What would be your
attitude toward a demilitarised.
neutral but unified Korea if the
Communists agreed to this?”
A.; “I have informed Presi-
dent Eisenhower that under no
circumstances will we accept any
neutralisation of Korea. All this
would mean would be that we
would have to lay down our
arms and see our friendly allies
withdraw, giving the Communists
the chance to strike against us
at any time of their choice. Of
course, the agreement we have
with the U.S. for a continuing
increase in our armed forces,
and the mutual-defence treaty
we have negotiated with the
U.S., mean that the idea of
neutralisation has already been
denied.”
Q.: “Are the safeguards the
U.S. has given you against a
recurrence of Communist aggres-
sion satisfactory and sufficient ?”
A.: “I am sure that the rati-
fication of the mutual-defence
treaty by the U.S. Senate will
be a sufficient warning to aggres-
sors not to advance any farther
into our land, so long as the
present world conditions remain
relatively unchanged.”
Q.: “Will the U.S. reopen
hostilities if the conference is a
failure and you wish to try
unifying Korea by force ?”
A.: “I believe the U.S. will
resume the fight in order to
accomplish the common objec-
tive, because the U.S. honor and
future security will be at stake.
You know the U.S. is honor
bound to reunify Korea, since
the U.S. is one of the nations
that created the 38th parallel.”
Q.: “Do you think the U.S.
would have my choice other
than to support the Republic of
Korea if you decide to withdraw
from the peace conference ?”
A.: “The U.S. is the strongest
Power on earth and fully capable
of pursuing any policy which its
leaders may establish and its
people support. If we walk out
of the conference in accordance
with our agreement with the
U.S. Government, of course, the
American representative will
walk out with us.”
Q.: “What do you believe the
attitude of other members of the
United Nations fighting in
Korea will be in this event ?”
A.: “I believe they must
stand with us.”. •
Replying to further questions
Rhee said; “I do not see how
good can come from the truce,
though now that it has been
signed, I hope that this judgment
may prove to be wrong.
“In general, I think President
Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles have
launched the U.S. upon a policy
of dealing with small nations,
specifically with Korea, on a
basis of mutual respect and
honest co-operation. This is
something new under the sun, in
our part of the world at least.
“Only a few months ago the
Republic of Korea was in the
painful position of being devas-
tated by the war, of furnishing
65 per cent, of the total man-
power in the fight, and of being
the only nation whose immediate
destiny was fatally involved—
yet also of being the only par-
ticipant whose judgment and
desires were completely ignored.
We reached the very end of our
endurance when the Communists
were presented with so-called
final truce terms drawn up
by the 16 participating U.N.
nations, but entirely and com-
pletely without any shadow of
consultation with us. Right up
to the very day of my release of
our anti-Communist prisoners,
this situation prevailed. Since
then, through my talks with Mr.
Robertson and subsequently
with Mr. Dulles, this situation
has been rectified.
“As I have told President
Eisenhower and Secretary
Dulles, if they persist wisely and
courageously in this manner of
dealing with allied anti-Com-
munist nations, the tide will
eventually turn in favor of the
world democratic alliance. If
the peoples of the West desire
all non-Communists to stand up
with them in defence of demo-
cracy, the very first essential is
to deal democratically with the
Governments whose assistance
is sought. This is the great
cornerstone of the policy Sec-
retary Dulles explained to me.
With it I am most appreciatively
and heartily in warm accord.”
West's German Win
There was quite a squeal in
cables when U.S. Secretary of
State Dulles publicly referred to
the then - pending German
elections.
Dulles, who gets, especially in
Britain, the worst “Press” that
any holder of his office has had
in recent times, was attacked for
“unwarranted inter ference,”
liable to destroy Adenauer. On
the contrary, Adenauer sent
Dulles a cable thanking him for
his support, and the independent
“Frankfurter Allgemeine Zei-
tung” commented:
“The United States is rela-
tively the best liked of all the
foreign Powers because it is be-
lieved that the Americans are
the first to wish Germany well.
Because of such considerations
probably millions of persons saw
no evil whatsoever in the inter-
vention of the American Secre-
tary of State, but were instead
strengthened by it in their deci-
sion to vote for the Chancellor,”
In the event, of course, the old
German statesman (he is over
77) fairly walked in. What
could well have helped him was
not played-up in cables in the
same way as the Dulles state-
ment. It was that Russia did
try its hand, very strenuously, at
influencing the German voters
right throughout the elections.
Even the Leftish London
“New Statesman” made that
interpretation of Moscow’s, pre-
election moves in the Father
Christmas tradition in East
Germany. “The Soviet conces-
sions to East Germany, which
follow closely the proposals
made a week earlier in the Soviet
Note to the Western Powers,” it
stated, “are designed to influence
the elections in the Federal
Republic.”
The promised concessions
stipulated that from the end of
this year East Germany would
pay no more reparations, would
receive back a number of fac-
tories taken over by the Rus-
sians, and would bear occupa-
tion costs only to a sum equiva-
lent to five per cent, of the
zone’s budget. A number of the
p.-0.-w. still held in Russia
would be released, and sub-
stantial industrial credits would
be provided for the supply of
Soviet raw materials to East
German industry.
London “Time and Tide,” also
Seeing these promises as vote-
bait (as did the West Germans),
commented particularly on the
p.-0.-w. issue, which, it noted,
had caused more resentment
throughout Germany, Western
and Eastern, than any other
action laid to Russia’s charge
since the war. “According to the
last official figures issued by
Moscow, 13,000 German
prisoners-of-war were still in
Russian hands in 1951. The
West German authorities, whose
concern for their unfortunate
countrymen in Russia has always
been lively, claim to possess the
names of no fewer than 83,800
prisoners who had not returned
and who were known to be in
captivity, quite apart from many
thousands more about whose fate
no news could be learnt.”
As well as that kind of “con-
cession” interference, Moscow
hammered away with propa-
ganda which cables passed over
and which probably actually
helped Adenauer considerably.
“New York Times” recorded:
“The whole Soviet State, party
and propaganda machine went
into high gear' to exploit Premier
Malenkov’s ‘concessions’ to the
East German puppet regime and
his threats of war in an
effort to overthrow Adenauer
in the then impending Ger-
man election in order to kill
the European Defence Com-
munity and European unifica-
tion.”
All this seed fell on stony
ground. Adenauer went on to a
win which has been assessed as
being as great a win for the West
as for himself. He has stated
the policies he will now pursue:
“The European Army was a
French plan to control Ger-
many. If the German potential
is a menace to peace then the
sooner it is limited and put
under international direction the
better.
“Not only are we [Germans]
opposed to a national army, but
we have refused to consider that
or any other alternative to a
European Army. What has not
been sufficiently stressed is that
such a pooled force prevents the
member-States from going off
on any military adventure on


y
310
w
ATLANTIC
nH»
I
%
i
i
t
c
7/im
m
Paradyne
*
m
&
k ot*>
“X
law id Me learn?
uou can ifaeir..
They’re STILL far-and-away the best combination for
Happy Motoring! Backed by ninety years refining
experience, right in line with today’s petroleum devel-
opments. There’s Atlantic Flash, eager for the spark;
Esso Paradyne, for extra pep; Atlantic Motor Oil,
always on its metal and then, awaiting you at the
Atlantic Solo Stations, there’s today’s best in all-round
car-care service . . . fast, friendly, and dependable to
the last degree. That’s your combination for Happy
Motoring the Team you can Trust!
ATLANTIC
for
55.53/4
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY
their own. It is actually a pro-
tection for nations outside as
well as within the circle. It must
always be too weak to be an
instrument of aggression. No-
body but an aggressor can really
fear it. The point is, however,
that none of the member-nations
could commit aggression. They
would be .under constant sur-
veillance.
“We have plenty of evidence
to indicate that many who live
under Communist rule would
vote for the E.D.C. if they could.
In the European Army and the
Coal and Steel Community they
see a step toward the integration
of Europe, and they hope that
as the West grows strong there
will be a European answer to
the problem of Germany.”
That has now been endorsed
by Moscow itself. With its cus-
tomary crudeness, it has aban-
doned its “soft” policy towards
Eastern Germany; a sowing of
dragons’ teeth that will one day,
unless all history is false, pro-
duce a fierce harvest. For, says
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun,” the
elections “marked the full
emergence of a new, strong
nation which will grow still
stronger, and whose desires will
more and more demand con-
sideration in the world’s affairs.”
Also there is the on-the-spot
comment of a correspondent of
“New York Times”:
“Since the election the Ger-
mans have been very pleased
with themselves. In greater
numbers than in any other Wes-
tern country they voted for the
integration of Europe and part-
nership with France. The main
issue of the election was im-
mediate and unqualified align-
ment with the West. This issue
was spelled out in every cam-
paign-speech pro and con. The
German people knew very well
what they were voting for, and
after the balloting they had the
satisfied air of a man who is sure
he has made a wise decision.
“This has been a fateful
summer in Germany. Both
Eastern and Western zones
demonstrated —one by revolt,
the other by vote —their rejection
of Communist rule. It is un-
deniable that these events
changed the picture of Europe.
The partitioned country is prob-
ably more united in spirit than
it has ever been, and this may
raise grave complications in the
future.”
Modern Art
Summing up by the Dean of
Chichester, the Very Rev. A. S.
Duncan Jones:
“Ordinarily educated people,
as they look out upon the world
of art today, are puzzled. Even
the artists themselves are puzzled
and do not know what it is they
are trying to do. So many things
are made and erected which to
many people would seem utterly
repulsive, and I think this is the
first time in the history of
Christian art in which that par-
ticular thing has happened.
“A great deal of modern art
seems to cover the picture of the
disintegration of the mind of
man which is taking place and
which affects people in every
sphere. People in every walk of
life are not knowing where they
are. They still live, but they
move in their sleep ; they do not
see, they grope,”
Sponsored T.Y.
Dr. Kirk, Bishop of Oxford,
rises up in defence in the
diocesan magazine:
“I find myself unable to join
the chorus of protests against
the proposals for ‘sponsored’ or
‘commercial’ T.V. I think that,
in this, as in other matters,
monopoly is, in principle, a bad
thing—not the least of all where
the monopoly is indirectly, at all
events, under a considerable
amount of Government control
—and I believe that the compe-
tition of private enterprise
tends to raise standards and
promote healthy experiment.
“Television is beyond ques-
tion one of the major factors in
the whole intellectual environ-
ment of today, and presents
problems of the first importance
in the moral, psychological and
educational spheres. This is all
the more reason why the experi-
mental possibilities of private
enterprise should not be stifled
by public monopoly, however
benevolent and progressive it
may desire to be.”
Dragnet Digest
Soviet Smiles. London
“Economist” comment: “Mr.
Vyshinsky, who for six years
was unchallenged holder of the
title of the world’s leading nyet-
man, returned to New York a
creature of smiles and soap. The
Russians are throwing caviare
parties in Vienna, offering
roubles to U.N.O. and talking
about another tour by the Dyna-
mos. However unchanged the
basic Soviet aims may be,
Malenkov has jettisoned one of
Stalinism’s most salient charac-
teristics—its surly rigidity.”
Japs Enjoy a Joke. —Like
most people (says a “New York
Times” correspondent in Tokyo),
the Japs enjoy a joke at other
peoples’ expense, and they have
been quietly enjoying the spec-
tacle of one United States diplo-
matic mission after another
arguing with President Rhee:
“This touches the Japanese sense
of irony. The Japanese ruled
Korea for 40 years under the
critical gaze of the United States
and now it is their turn to
suggest, as they do very politely,
that maybe after all their way
of dealing with the Koreans
wasn’t so bad.”
i
German Luck.— Noted by a
“New York Times” corres-
pondent in Germany: “The
West stripped Germany of her
obsolescent industrial plant
under a dismantling programme
and then gave it a modern set of
machinery for nothing under the
Marshall Plan.”
Suez Alternatives. —Noted by
Chicago “Tribune”: “Britain, if
forced to pull its garrison out of
the Suez Canal Zone, as Egypt
insists, will find it handy to
exercise the right to station
military forces in Libya, There
they will be close enough to
return to Suez in a hurry if the
need arises. , A similar treaty
long in force with Jordan gives
them a flanking position on the
other side of the canal.” The
“Tribune” is incensed because J.
Bull gets such alternative bases,
at “bargain rates,” whereas
“exorbitant handouts” have to
be made by Uncle Sam to get
bases in French North Africa
and elsewhere.
Malayan Terrorists.- —While
listing very considerable im-
provement under Gen, * Sir
Gerald Templer, a “New York
Times” correspondent in Malaya
reports that the terrorists still
constitute a grave menace: “It
is emphasised that casualties in
the Communist forces regularly
are being replaced by new re-
cruits and that the regular Red
Army of 6000 men, plus tens of
thousands of supporters, still is
in a position to strike out at
some future time in an intensi-
fied drive tp gain control of this
productive segment of South-
east Asia.”
Defending Indo-China. —On
President Eisenhower’s warning
that America will not allow
Indo-China to fall to Com-
munist aggression, which “must
be blocked and it must be
blocked now, and that’s what
we’re trying to do,” New York
“Herald Tribune” comments
that this needs to be heeded by
both Peking and Moscow:
“Whatever they may be thinking
about transferring operations
from Korea to the south-east
corner of Asia, the Communists
are certainly not left in the
slightest doubt about where the
United States stands. We will
not sit back and rest on
optimistic interpretations of the
Communist mind.”
Chinese Famine. London
correspondents of New York
“Herald Tribune” report that,
since early this year, when
Peking began to show increasing
interest in coming to terms in
Korea, millions of Chinese have
been stricken by famine in at
least 11 provinces—more than
half of China’s 18 provinces—
covering an enormous area:
“Hunger, intensifying internal
economic and political diffi-
culties, appears to have been
partly responsible for driving
Peking to the armistice table.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Rommel’s Generalship ®
Why does “Hoplite” (B. 9/9/’53) believe
that British generals decide and provide
the weapons, training and battle’ methods
of the British Army? Did they ever do
so, at least within the last 250 years?
That some commanders do try to
innovate within the limits of training-
manuals is true, but it must be done in
addition to the laid-down training and
cannot supersede it.
Only the people of Britain can, through
Parliament, expand the Army, provide
it with new and better weapons and
change its organisation and training.
Naturally, full use is made of the special
knowledge of generals and experts; and
the General Staff is the channel by which
this information is made available to
Parliament and the instrument by which
ii is assessed and used. Those who desire
a larger, better-equipped and better-
trained British Army must speak to the
people of Britain; hence the military
writers and publicists.
Only a few of these really have the
people’s, regard and attention, and, of the
few. Captain Liddell-Hart is the doyen.
Liddell-Hart is an acknowledged
authority on military science, a wise
publicist and an experienced Government
adviser. He wrote the “Official Army
Training Manual” which was in use at the
outbreak of World War 11. He was also
Permanent Military Adviser to Hore-
Belisha from 1937 to 1938, but resigned
from this permanency convinced he could
do more for Britain as a free man with a
free pen.
Since Cromwell’s day neither the British
Parliament nor people have tolerated
the Army influencing the Government in
any way. When the advice of responsible
military leaders is required it is asked for.
The General Staff—in touch with Army
commanders may warn the War
Minister that a certain situation is
dangerous to the safety of the nation.
The Government and Parliament may
take action or not, the staff has done its
duty however anxious and perturbed its
members might be. Reorganising an
Army with new weapons and equipment
requires a very large sum of new money
over and above the annual appropriation.
Parliament will not vote the extra money
except in the face of existing or imminent
national peril.
One would not grudge Rommel his due
share of fame. He was a competent
commander and a clean fighter. Yet, for
a time, nearly every bookshop whom-
ever the English and American languages
are spoken featured a full display of The
Rommel Papers. The plain German face
in its flaunting Nazi cap met one every-
where.
No book on a British or American
general has ever been so featured or ever
will be. Such a book as The Montgomery
Papers would get a rough spin in the
U.S.A. And The Patton Papers or The
Clark Documents would neither be
featured nor sell readily within the
British Commonwealth, The present
Rommel cult is quite typical of the
British contempt for their own military
leaders. Admitting that Rommel was a
great general should not imply that
Montgomery was not. Yet that is the
effect upon the mind of the public.
Over the last century and a half it has
been a trait of the English people to
condemn and deride their Army and its
officers. Yet the Army has-never failed
Britain.
When the Boer War opened, 25,000
sketchily-brigaded infantry had to
prevent a mounted army of 65,000 Boers
from overrunning South Africa until an
adequate task-force could arrive to finish
the business. They did it. A system of
widely-spaced sieges, each with a pseudo
relieving force operating in its vicinity,
pinned most of the Boer forces down,
deprived them of their most useful
weapon, their mobility, and compelled
them to waste their most precious need,
time. Yet the newly Americanised Press
of the period made a disaster of every
battle and a cockshy of every senior
officer. And the dirt sticks to this day,—
S. McC. (N.S.W.).
Dairy Problems
A month or so ago a dairy-industry
investigation committee, appointed by the
Federal Government, reported back to
the effect that, now that Britain was end-
"You're only tryin t ' look older so I’ll go out with you.”
ing Government-to-Government bulk-
buying, in dairy products as in other
things, high costs-of-production in the
industry would make it difficult for Aus-
tralia to compete with lower-priced butter
from Denmark and with high-grade
margarine. Also that, because of high
prices, sales of bptter and of processed-
milk products in Australia have fallen
considerably.
Because of this drop in home-consump-
tion Australia has a much greater export-
able surplus of butter this year. But since
1945 total British imports of butter have
fallen from about 530,000 tons a year
to an estimated 300,000 tons for
1953-54. And rationing of margarine is
to end in Britain this December,
The Commonwealth Government is
instituting a costs-of-production survey of
the industry. (Dairyfarmers, of course,
cannot be blamed altogether for the
industry’s high cost-structure, which was
practically thrust on them.) The survey
is to cover nearly all States, and it is to
be hoped that it brings practicable results.
Here in W.A., for instance, many herds
are smaller than the standard proposed in
the survey. Many W.A. dairyfarmers are
already finding the going a bit tough
through high costs and contracting sales.
Australia must sell abroad to live;
dairy products are an important export.
To keep trade in a free-enterprise world,
reducing costs is a first essential —this is
very true of dairying. And, to sell more
butter and milk on the home-market.
prices will have to come down. —Maros
(W.A.).
Commonwealth Loans
My daily paper carries a full-page
advertisement for the 18th Security Loan
issued by the Federal Government. Good
luck to it, and I hope it fills quickly.
The time is overripe for a Jot of Savings
Bank money to be invested by the
depositors themselves in fixed-term
securities. There are far too many
millions earning interest and repayable
practically at “call.” That was a recom-
mendation of the royal commission on
banking, but little notice was taken of it.
But here are a couple of questions with-
out notice. Intending investors are told
that, “every six months over the whole
life of your bonds, the same amount of
interest will be paid to you, and your
income will be as certain as the sunrise.”
Brave words, and one hopes they will
never have to be eaten. But is it not a
fact that when the Premiers’ Plan was
adopted in an effort to get us out of the
’thirties depression bondholders were
asked voluntarily to agree to conversion
of their holdings at a lower rate of
interest? As I recall, some agreed and
others held out for their pound of flesh.
All, however, were required to convert
on the basis of a 12\ per cent, reduction
in their rate of interest. So much for
incomes being as certain as the sunrise!
Question number two: Did not the
1931 conversion operation also have the
effect of extending the maturity dates of
bonds? So much foj the statement that
if one buys a bond with a currency of
13 years, the full face-value will be repaid
at the expiration of that time.
Who is to say what may happen in the
next 13 years? It’s a long time, and
history, like steak and onions, may repeat
itself, as the old Tivoli comedian used to
sing.— Ceg (Vic.).
Communism
Communism in Australia is a nuisance ;
but there is not a remote prospect of its
ever becoming a major political or social
force here.
There is nothing strange in the Redness
of official heads of the gang; they owe
allegiance directly to the Kremlin bosses
and their job is to sprag the wheels of
industry in this country as far as possible,
to create and foster hostility between
employer and employed, and generally to
impede the normal development of a
democracy.
What is remarkable is that Communism
can find sympathisers among reasonably
intelligent men and women. These
shut their eyes to the fact that
in Russia today there is nothing faintly
resembling what is implied in the word
Communism. The bosses there are con-
cerned mainly in competing for personal
power and are liquidating one another
in the process. The great mass of the
people have no more to do with the selec-
tion and election of their rulers than
Australians have in the appointment of
the Dalai Lama of Tibet. They dare not
question their authority nor criticise their
actions,
A pertinent question is: What is the
objective of these ideological Communists
in Australia? In this country, with pure
adult suffrage enjoyed by both sexes, it is
possible to change any form of govern-
ment, and to adopt another overnight
without firing a shot or knocking off a
policeman’s helmet. An elector can
say publicly what he thinks of Mr.
Menzies or Dr. Evatt without fear of any
punitive action against him.
In Russia a whisper against any of the
Moscow despots. would incur a forced
trip to Siberia or, if the whisperer were
important enough, summary execution.
The Russian poet must pipe a proletarian
piece, the artist paint in Red, the
dramatist glorify the ruling regime.
So what in the name of commonsense
do these sympathisers and fellow-
travellers in this free country think they
are getting at or going to?
In a century or so the Russian worker
and the Russian people as a whole may
get within measurable distance of achiev-
ing the intellectual liberty and the
material comfort which Australians enjoy
already and accept as a matter of course.
— G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Guide-dogs
T. C. Fairbairn (B. 9/8/’53) asserts
that it would cost £l5OO per dog to train
guide-dogs in Australia.
After the initial nursery problems
associated with such a venture we have
now set up a modern training centre with
up-to-date kennels on a two-acre freehold
property within six miles of Perth. After
making due provision for “land, build-
ings, the importation of trainers,” etc.,,
the cost per dog will be in the range of
£3OO to £350. Surely that is a small price
for a new pair of eyes. — Constance
Gibbon, Hon. Secretary, Guide Dogs for
the Blind Association, W.A.
N.T. Railway
The scheme to link Queensland
railways across the Barkly Tableland to
Birdum (N.T.) wouldn’t save many
cattle in time of drought, wouldn’t
be economically sound and wouldn’t
assist defence preparations.
The best answer to those three main
problems would be to implement the
report by Sir Harold Clapp on the Alice
Springs-Birdum rail-connection.
Discovery of uranium, wolfram,
copper, gold, coal, mica and : other
minerals in the N.T. greatly enhances the
prospects of the Clapp scheme, be-
cause throughout its whole length the rail
would be connected with cattle-holdings
as well as the developing mining
industries.
S.A. provides the industry necessary
for Territory mineral-development and
defence needs, as well as a good market
for cattle.
Geography and economics, apart from
past political and sentimental ties, require
that S.A. and the northern portion of the
N.T. should be joined more closely by
the construction of this railway.
Under the terms of acquisition from
S.A, the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is morally and legally bound to
complete the north-south railway.
As a staging-camp for cattle consigned
by rail the Alice Springs basin can supply
the fodder.
The Quorn-Alice Springs line does pay,
and the immense and slowly developing
mineral wealth of the N.T. should ensure
that the second transcontinental railway
will pay, too. — Centurion (N.S.W.).
Homes
My neighborhood would provide
“Cave” (B. 2/9/’53) with plenty of
evidence that the current housing short-
age is as much the result of unbalanced
distribution as of inefficiency.
Across the road from my place is a
three-bedroomed brick bungalow
occupied by a spinster schoolteacher.
When she was away in a country post it
remained empty, A few doors away is
another, of the same size, occupied by
a widow. There are several others that
shelter only an elderly married couple
apiece.
Many such * people would be glad to
exchange their houses for smaller ones
in a similar locality, but few suitable
local houses come on the market with
vacant possession and at a reasonable
price.
The same people might be persuaded
to divide their house or take in another
family, but the cost of conversion is
generally prohibitive and it is virtually
impossible to get rid of an uncongenial
tenant provided the rent is paid,—
Economist (N.S.W.).
A TIME FOR GHOSTS TO WALK
(Written by a man who voted for the first time
—for Labor at that —fifty years ago.)
How timely it would be, how fitting seem,
If all these “Labor” Treasurers, who scream
For grants and loans (despite the market’s
“nay”),
Insisting that the Commonwealth obey—-
If every bankrupt socializzum’s stooge
With phantoms were confronted, ’as was
Scrooge!
They would have cause for shame, as well as
fear,
If Fisher’s ghost should suddenly appear.
To Labor men of Andy Fisher’s time,
To borrow was a near approach to crime.
A country free of debt was their ideal,
And their convictions, like themselves, were real.
Once Fisher said, in rasping Scottish tones.
He’d hate to see the Union floating loans.
And he was P.M. then. In truth, a ghost
That Queensland’s Gair would be afraid of
most.
Honor to those who in the ’nineties wrought
The “platform,” and who on and for it fought;
Who fashioned that inspiriting “objective”
And did their all to make the thing effective;
Who thought they saw, in process of creation,
A strong, “enlightened,” “self-reliant” nation!
Their spectres, if they walked remembered
lands,
Their heads they well might carry in their hands.
For, rather than be parties to the shame
Of what’s now said and done in Labor’s name:
Its enmity to toil (not bookie bosses);
Its packed departments; its prodigious losses;
Its lotteries, competing on the plan
That gambling is the noblest work of man;
The Doyles on whose society it dotes —
The Fathers would, I’m sure, have cut their
throats.
D. EMPSON (N.S.W.)


How the Tax Rebate on
Commonwealth Loans
Increases your Net
Income!
It is net income—after taxation, that is—-that really
determines how one lives and what one spends.
The Income Tax Rebate of 2/- in the £1 of
interest, which applies to Commonwealth Bonds,
increases net income and considerably enhances
the investment value of Bonds in comparison with
other securities subject to normal taxation. Here
is how it works:
Take the case of a bondholder whose taxable income
from wages or salary is £BOO and who receives, in addition,
interest of £5O from £4/10/- per cent. Commonwealth
Bonds which are subject to this concession.
Without the rebate, the tax, under the proposed 1953-54
Income Tax Scale, would be £B6/17/-, but, because of
the rebate, one-tenth of the £5O received from Bonds is
deducted and the total tax payable is reduced to £Bl/17/-.
The net income from Bonds is £45/9/-. To receive a net
income of £45/9/- from other types of investment, the
rate of interest would have had to be £5/1/1 per cent,
instead of £4/10/- per cent.
Because, under our Income Tax system, higher rates of
tax apply to higher incomes, the relative value of this
concession tends to increase as income increases. Thus,
with taxable income from salary of £1,500 and £lOO from
£4/10/- per cent. Commonwealth Bonds, that £4/10/-
per cent, is equivalent to £5/3/4 per cent, on other
securities. With taxable income from salary of £2,000
and £2OO from £4/10/- per cent. Commonwealth Bonds,
the £4/10/- per cent, interest would be equivalent to
£5/4/7 per cent.
If you are concerned to secure the maximum net income
commensurate with absolute capital security and regular
interest payments at a guaranteed rate, you will look no
further than the Commonwealth 18th Security Loan.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
1, Commonwealth bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
4 a
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on October 15, 1966;
or
2, Commonwealth Bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
31
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on December 13,
1953.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 27-
in each £1 of interest is allowed for
the period during which no Income
Tax is levied under the law of a
State. This rebate increases the
effective interest yield (consider-
ably so in the case of higher-
income bondholders).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the
longer-term issue is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Those
who already own £lOO of Inscribed
Stock may increase their holdings
by multiples of £lO. For the short-
term issue the minimum subscrip-
tion is £l,OOO, with higher amounts
in multiples of £l,OOO, of Bonds
or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted,
with the balance in either one or
three equal amounts by January
4, 1954.
BANKS. SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY
ORDER POST OFFICES OR
STOCKBROKERS will receive appli-
cations for cash subscriptions. You
have only to fill in one simple
form and lodge a cheque or cash.
Invest NOW in the
COMMONWEALTH
18th Security LOAN
Import Restrictions
“Dives” (B. 30/9/’53) com-
plains that certain spokesmen
regard the matter of import-
restrictions from a sectional, not
national, viewpoint. It would be
remarkable if they regarded it
otherwise. The statesmanlike
quality of viewing such issues
from a broad national stand-
point has been missing from
public and commercial life in
this country for some time.
Cases for or against import-
restrictions are the same as
those for or against free trade,
and have been argued for many
years. In spite of all argu-
ments, any form of restriction
which favors one section of the
community at the expense of the
others is bad. It has never been
suggested that import-restric-
tions were introduced in the first
place to serve as a protection for
Australian industries. They were
introduced to prevent the coun-
try going bankrupt. We simply
couldn’t afford to buy more
overseas. Now that the position
has improved there doesn’t seem
to be any justification for con-
tinuing them.
Anyone doubted the sin-
cerity of the Menzies Govern-
ment in introducing them need
only consider the conditions at
the time. The increasing flow
of overseas goods had begun to
steady the price - rise and
appeared as though it would be
responsible for the first real
check to inflation. A Govern-
ment that was already being
accused of failing in a promise
to put value back in the pound
must have had a ton of moral
courage and national foresight
to introduce so unpopular a
measure.
The manufacturers must take
their share of blame for the
poor quality and high prices of
locally-made goods, just as the
waterside-workers must take
their share of responsibility for
the high freights and heavy costs
of both importing and exporting.
There must be some justification
for the preference for English-
made cloth, for example, or for
English-made electrical goods.
It is useless for the manufac-
turers to claim that the local
product is equal or superior to
the imported article. The con-
sumer, after all, has to be the
judge, and he’s not always bound
by mere prejudice, x
While import-restrictions are
in force there is no need for the
local maker to improve his
article or improve his efficiency
of production. It is not a solu-
tion to restrict competition. It
has to be met in quality and
price.
Trade-unions which fear re-
trenchments if the overseas
article is allowed in are merely
aping the manufacturers. They
want an artificial standard of
living maintained by means of
restrictive legislation. If the
unions want to meet outside
competition their members, too,
must increase their own effici-
ency.
The lifting of import-restric-
tions would give a much-needed
injection to our lazy economy.
—Obadiah B. (N.S.W.).
Beer or Building?
If north Queensland gets
plenty of southern-brewed
bottled beer at the expense of
essential building materials (B,
23/9/’53) the solution is in the
hands of north - Queenslanders
themselves.
It’s no use the N.Q. public
saying “But what can we do?’’
All it has to do is to refuse to
drink inter-State and Brisbane
bottled brews in favor of their
own. Soon there would be no
sales and the brewery interests
down south would be unable to
ship more at a profit. Result —
shipping-space for building
materials.
But can anyone imagine Cane-
landers jumping to form anti-
southern-bottled-beer vigilante
committees? Not bloomin’
likely! — Karrimba (A.C.T.).


LYSAGHTS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK tor Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
1
im ■
IM
m
m
ißi—
• y
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg 7 d Office & Works, Blackwail Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office. 17 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A “Desert” Ram
“D.W.”: A Merino ram bred
on the 90-mile desert in South
Australia made lOOOgns. at
Adelaide ram sales. Sold through
Dalgety’s, it will go to New Zea-
land.
ram was top offering in
the catalogue of Murray
Thomas, whose Fairbanks
Merino stud at Keith is the first
registered flock established in
the Ninety Mile. Super., copper,
zinc and molybdenum converted
these lands into some of the
most ideal grazing country in
Australia. Shortly after Waite
Institute research-officers traced
the cause of sheep-sterility there
to mineral-deficiency and dis-
covered means of refertilising
the soil, a large area was pur-
chased by a Mr. Becker, of
Adelaide, at something less than
10s. an acre.
Beckersfield soon became the
centre of Australia-wide interest
with its prolific pastures of sub.-
clover, rye, oats and Rhodes-
grass (to anchor the sandy areas).
The results at Beckersfield partly
induced the A.M.P. Society to
launch its great settlement
project,
Murray Thomas, whose Strad-
brooke Merino stud at Clare was
already one of the leading S.A.
flocks, bought a big, unde-
veloped slice of Beckersfield.
Here .he set out to establish,
with “supper-copper molly,” the
Fairbanks pastures from which
he turns out today some of the
biggest-framed and best-woolled
Merinos in South Australia.
The flock was founded from
Stradbrooke ewes (of Koonoona,
S.A., blood) and Stud Park
North (Deniliquin, N.S.W.)
rams.
Oliver Smith, manager of
Hope Bros’ station. The Gram-
pians, in the Timaru district,
N.Z., saw these Merino giants
at the Adelaide Show and at
the auctions bought the top ram
at lOOOgns. and another at
200gns.
Tomatoes
“A. F. Spring”; Sow tomato-
seeds as thinly as possible in
trays of light soil, or in shallow
drills in a well-sheltered bed. We
broadcast the seed in a single
tray, pricking out the seedlings
into other trays when the first
two leaves appear. This makes
easier transferring at planting-
time without checking growth
of the young plants.
Cover with light, sandy soil,
not more than |in, deep, and
water the seed gently. Don’t let
the soil become too dry; in
rainless weather, with dry winds,
a piece of damp newspaper
placed on the surface will keep
it moist. Choose a sheltered
northerly aspect.
Plant out the seedlings any
time after the eighth leaf forms
—about six to eight weeks after
germination. Choose favorable
weather. Plant deeply-down to
the first pair of leaves. Bush
varieties like Burwood Wonder
or the South Australian Dwarf
require 30in. between the plants
and 4ft. to sft. between rows.
Other varieties, except cluster
types, need 36in. between plants
with rows spaced sft. to 6ft.
apart. Climbers and clusters do
not spread so far; 15in. apart
and 4ft. or sft. between rows
suffices for these.
Storing Potatoes
“Billjim”: If potatoes are to
be stored for any time they
should be emptied from bags
into pits. The pit should be in
a well-drained site, and a con-
venient width is Bft. Logs or
6in. x lin. planks set on edge
are suitable for forming the
frame.
Build the potatoes up as
steeply as convenient. An angle
of 45deg. is practicable. As the
pit progresses sides and end of
the heap should be covered with
a layer of straw about 4in. deep.
A capping of straw placed
across the ridge so that the ends
overlap the straw at the sides
will shed rain. Rye-, or wheat-
straw, or reeds are preferable to
oaten- or barley-straw.
Secure the thatch by a light
covering of soil or by timber.
If soil is used it should be placed
no higher on the sides of the
pit than 9in. from the top of the
ridge on each side. Sprouting
may be prevented by using a
mixture containing 2.4 per cent,
isopropyl-phenyl-carbamate, but
its use is not advised for seed-
potatoes.
Don’t mix diseased tubers
with sound ones. In stacking see
that air is allowed freely to
circulate between the tubers to
minimise sweating and heating,
For the same reason see that
only mature tubers are stored
together and that all tubers are
quite dry.
—
_ , . ,
Lamb incubators
“Kiwi”: Born in the cold
New Zealand spring, lambs
need warmth to survive. The
old-time practice was to wrap
weakly lambs in a bag, warm
them before the kitchen fire and
give them a stimulant such as
glucose. Some years back an
N.Z. farmer’s wife, formerly a
Karitane nurse, hit on the idea
of a lambing-incubator. To-
day they are in general use in
the Dominion.
Some are worked electrically
and thermostatically-controlled.
One type gives an even tempera-
ture of 103 deg. F., close to
blood-heat of a normal lamb. In
others infra-red lamps are used.
In emergencies electric appli-
ances such as a blanket, warm-
ing-pad, radiator or portable
lamp are brought into use, each
incubator being securely fire-
proof. In each case the lamb
goes back to the mother as soon
as possible.
In the lambing season N.Z.
farmers do the rounds of the
flocks several times a day,
equipped with penicillin for the
ewe, glucose for the lamb, lamb-
oils, antiseptics and calcium-
gluconate.
Selling Our Pigs
“Archaps”: R. G. Watson, a
Queensland pig-producer, in a
review of the pig-industry for
the yast 20 years, concludes that
the industry will not recover its
pre-war output unless Britain
again recognises the value of
Empire preference.
Under the preferences granted
at Ottawa in 1932, says Watson,
Britain estimated her consump-
tion requirements and home-
production and then asked Em-
pire countries for estimates of
their production for export to
the U.K., their product to re-
ceive second preference to the
U.K.’s home-production.
That step opened up the
British market to the Australian
pig-industry. Before that export
to Britain had been spasmodic
and the return doubtful. After
Ottawa, pigmeat exports to the
U.K. took an upward turn,
mostly in the form of bacpner
carcasses and sides for curing in
Britain. The long period in ship
transport caused extreme diffi-
culties in exporting bacon, but
British curers eventually de-
veloped a technique which
created a good demand for
Australian pigmeats, which
were available at the time
Britain’s home-production was
low. This enabled British fac-
tories to maintain an equable
throughput and so helped to
stabilise factory costs.
By the time the 1939-45 war
broke out Australia had estab-
fished a very large and prosper-
ous pigmeat trade in Britain,
based on quality, not price-
cutting, and goodwill was ex-
tremely high. During the war
contracts to supply Britain were
satisfactory, and when Ameri-
can troops arrived in the Pacific
most of Australia’s pigmeat-
production went to them. After
the war pigmeats were sold to
Britain under contracts at prices
well below those paid to her own
producers, or even to such coun-
tries as Denmark, Holland and
Poland. Today Denmark is
sending Britain nearly as much
as pre-war, Holland 40 per cent.
more and Poland 50 per cent,
“Who oiled the hinges on that damn door ?”
more, whereas Australia is send-
ing only a fraction of its pre-
war quantity.
Until recently, although Aus-
tralia was at such a price-dis-
advantage under the U.K. con-
tract, she was precluded from
selling pigmeats outside Aus-
tralia without Britain’s permis-
sion, the U.K. contract being for
the whole of our exportable sur-
plus. This meant that markets
Australia had in the East pre-
war were denied us except in
special circumstances. This
allowed foreign competitors to
get in, and although recently
Britain has allowed Australian
exporters the right to develop
this trade, the damage had
already been done. Australia
then developed the canned-ham
industry, but Continental coun-
tries, which had sold the major
part of their output to Britain
at higher prices than Australia
received, could sell canned-ham
at a price which was an em-
barrassment to Australian pro-
ducers, and this export trade
suffered.
Watson says that, from his own
observations in Britain immedi-
ately pre-war and again in 1950,
he is confident that Australia’s
trade in pigmeats for curing can
be re-establishedr with British
bacon-curers through agents in
Britain, but it will depend on
the recognition by Britain of the
value of Empire preference.
Victorian Wheat Yields
“Mr.”: Victoria produced
50,334,634 bushels of wheat last
season from 2,232,097 acres,
averaging 22.55 bushels an acre
—the highest average ever pro-
duced. In three of the past four
seasons Victoria has produced
yields of over 50 million bushels,
and not less than 45 million
bushels each year for seven con-
secutive years.
The Mallee last season yielded
a record of 19.35 bushels an
acre, three more than the previ-
ous record of 16.19 in 1951. The
Wimmera averaged 28.42
bushels, the previous highest
being 26.6 in 1943. Wimmera
black soils gave much higher
yields than red or other district
soils. At Longerenong College,
near Horsham, 350 acres of
black soil averaged 60 bushels,
Wheat bred by Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture was
grown on 94 per cent, of the
State’s wheatlands in 1952, and
the leading varieties—lnsignia,
Quadrat and Pinnacle—occu-
pied 88 per cent,
The high Mallee yields were
attributed to Insignia, a variety
sown on 60 per cent, of the
area. In the Wimmera,
Quadrat and Pinnacle boosted
yields. Pinnacle in particular
having the capacity to take full
advantage of favorable condi-
tipns in the late spring,
“
Weed-control
eea cont °
“Agric”: As the result of ex-
periments in Queensland, mainly
by W. J. Bisset, the C.5.1.R.0.
sees a possibility that the weed
problem could be much less
acute if correct fertilisers were
used to stimulate the growth of
crops and pastures,
The experiments by Bisset
were made to control mintweed.
Hormone-type weedicides were
used to check the growth of
mintweed seedlings in a sorghum
crop. In one experiment the
yields from the controls (un-
treated plots) on two different
soils were 32.9 and 14.6 cwt.
respectively, whereas after spray-
treatment yields of 41.6 and
32.9 cwt. per acre were recorded.
With French white-millet the
controls yielded 6.6 bushels per
acre of grain, and plots treated
with M.C.P.A. yielded 16
“g ,he C.5.1.R.0.,
the experiments showed that the
lesser yield from control-plots
was a direct result of competi-
tion between two species, and
that where one (mintweed) was
depressed the yield of the other
(sorghum or white-millet) was
increased, which suggested that
any other treatment which would
increase the relative vigor of
crop plants would have a similar
effect,
New experiments were then
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Good rains are due shortly. In the Western Queens-
land dry areas relief rains should come in October or
November according to the cycle. In the year 1788, under
the Grand Cycle controlled by the magnetic field of Nep-
tune, October and November were not wet in the Sydney
area, but December brought good rains. There were
further rains before the autumn. In the southern States
the succession of rains should continue.


PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
From his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.
Ms afate/s t&d/l
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hoi water
Always greater
convenience
AlNbttie
ON£ m
LOW
COST
v/- -£?
r
CjUUK tf^ Or J
«»
\ I
CohmichapL 5%
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520” is always
ready when ydu decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Norite for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hoi
water for all your
household needs.
\
Naturally it cooks perfectly it’s a
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
•Jf,
CaJinuchael
A Unit of Email Limited!
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms,
mm ‘-mT iUL.
Ifei# *i |if Wl! ?;
!
• -i■ -. ■
f/
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONXIT BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/fl per night
Double Booms—
From 84/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
m
THE...
HYGEIA OISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of, sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES.. .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
ĝ
YOU CAN INSTAL FT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible'for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A. : E. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS. : Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tag.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN : O. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Baffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
Have you got
% n
BELtS
TOO\ SCOTCH WMrSItltJ
OISTIILID AND BLEN° IU
' IN SCOTIAN 0 a.
D| stillers s c £, „ ;J
established
PRODUCT Of '&£****
We are not talking about books or
plays or clothes. We mean ‘Good
taste’ In the strict sense.
When you drink whisky, for
example, do you really taste it
critically? It’s always agreeable
to be offered Scotch Whisky. But
It’s memorable when you’re
offered Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. Note that name—Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Established in.
1825. We’d like you to try Bell’s
Whisky. It brings to mind the
echo of Scottish breezes, the
burbling of Scottish burns,
the ripple of ripe barley fields,
and has that slight suggestion
that hints at Highland peat
and heather. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky— truly you can call
yourself a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
6scC.
DISTILLERS i-brth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
designed to determine the effects
of fertilisers on different plants,
and it was found that there was
a marked difference in the
responses of different species to
the same fertiliser.
For instance, taking blue-
grass plots with no treatment as
100, plots fertilised with am-
monium-sulphate were 225 ;
min tweed, no treatment, was
34 and fertilised plots 33, but
Rhodes-grass, no treatment 100,
was 361 when fertilised. The
addition of fertiliser thus in-
creased the yield of blue-grass
by 125 per cent., gave practically
no increase in the yield of mint-
weed and increased the yield of
Rhodes-grass by 261 per cent.
Red-legged Mite
“1.R.0.”: The red-legged
earth-mite is a serious pest in
sub.-clover pastures, particu-
larly in West Australia, and in
a variety of crops in southern
Australia.
It can reduce newly-sown and
ungrazed pastures by as much as
80 per cent. Elimination of the
earth-mite from an experimental
pasture resulted in the first year
in an increase of 63 per cent, in
clover, 32 per cent, in grasses
and a decrease of 12 per cent,
in capeweed. In the second year
differences were even more
marked.
C.5.1.R.0. experiments con-
firm that D.D.T. is highly toxic
to the mite, and has checked the
insect for long periods under
experimental conditions by its
use as a dust or incorporated in
super. In the field D.D.T.,
applied by drill, with the tubes
hanging freely, at the rate of
lewt. of 2 per cent. D.D.T.-
super. per acre gave satisfactory
control for two seasons.
Nectar Secretion
“Drone B.”: Commercial
apiarists have long been familiar
with the vagaries of nectar-
secretion in eucalypts, although
never quite understanding it. A
good deal of work has been
done in France to gain informa-
tion on the environmental fac-
tors influencing nectar-secretion.
These include carbohydrate
reserves in the tree (which forms
the basis of the starch test),
soil conditions of fertility and
moisture/ air temperatures,
humidity, atmospheric pressure
and rainfall.
The French workers confined
themselves to temperature, pres-
sure and humidity. The tests
were made on stands of E.
robusta and E. globulus on the
Mediterranean coast. As the
trees were situated in a limited
area, soil conditions, rainfall and
other factors were assumed to
be sufficiently equal. Nectar was
collected by hand in a gradu-
ated syringe, measured and re-
tained for sugar analysis.
Climatic data were recorded
automatically.
They found that the volume
of nectar Secreted was very
closely related to a complex fac-
tor which they designated as
“TH,” and which is made up of
elements o f temperature,
humidity and atmospheric pres-
sure. As there had been rain
for two days before the begin-
ning of the test, soil-moisture
conditions were considered ade-
quate.
Effects of a dry wind were
well demonstrated in a pre-
liminary test when the nectar-
secretion curve fell sharply and
remained low until after the
wind changed. Ordinary cli-
matic data were not satisfactory
for determining the TH factor,
but a set of figures styled the
“microclimate” was necessary to
arrive at a true relationship.
This microclimate is a record of
the usual meteorological data
taken within inches of the
flowers under test. How it is
to be related to the general
meteorological data to give an
overall picture of the condi-
tions under which a section of
forest as a whole may be ex-
pected to yield a crop of nectar
is not suggested by the experi-
menters.
With regard to the sugar-con-
tent of the nectar, they found
that the total sugars yielded was
related to another complex fac-
tor designated “TV” made up
of elements of temperature and
volume. Much more work is
still required to account for
other possible factors (known
and unknown) and then to bring
the whole into a general form
before it will be of practical
value. Maybe at some time in
the near future our own authori-
ties will be induced to take an
interest in this work on our
native trees begun in a foreign
land.
Hints for the Farm
“Bill C”: Epicure climbing-
beans are much superior to the
dwarf varieties of French-beans
for north Queensland. Not only
do they crop more heavily* but
they seem less susceptible to
bean-fly attack. A netting-fence
or trellis Bft. or 9ft. high, pre-
ferably running north and
south, is needed. Heat won’t
hurt the vines if they get plenty
of water and their roots are
mulched with old grass or horse-
manure.
“Big Billy”: Although the
ideal mixture varies from soil
to soil, a complete fertiliser of
the market-gardener type is satis-
factory for root crops. In very
sandy soil 5:1:1 super.,
ammonia and potash would be
better. Rate for all roots should
he loz. per running yard of
row, half of which is best placed
in 2in.-deep drills each side of
the seed-row and about 2in.
away from the seed.
“Sundowner”: Adequate
lubrication of spray equipment
is necessary. Grease the
plungers every hour while in
use. Lubricate agitator-shaft
bearings every day, and pressure-
controllers lightly (according to-
the maker’s recommendations)
every day. Keep gears filled to
the oil-level. Drain and refill
periodically. Keep wheels, power
take-offs, chain-drives and other
transmission-gears well lubri-
cated. •
“Myrr”: In Victoria during
February plant green-manure
crops of peas, lupins or tick-
beans in orchards ; water stone-
fruits after harvest; watch for
red-scale on citrus and fumigate
or spray with white-oil; protect
newly-planted trees against
damage from rabbits and hares ;
spray canning peaches with dry-
mix lime-sulphur 14 days after
harvest; spray apples and pears
for mite and red-spider with
parathion or H.E.T.P.; spray
Jonathan apples and Williams’-
pears with “anti-drop” spray
just before harvest.


A .. . u u + a 4-
Across the room they shouted at
each other, spending their rage
in sound, and filling him with a
sense of importance. Once there
had been refuge for the woman
in tears and the vaguely-force-
less sympathy of her husband,
Then, suddenly, Ronnie was
spending his evenings at the
r1l„ waiting until she was
asleep before he came home,
Ronnie explained it to him.
“I can’t stand this eternal
bickering,” he said ; “it’s getting
me down ”
, a , . .. a A
You d be better off if you got
me into a home Hennessey had
said, knowing his son would
never accept this admission of
defeat
, ,
Sitting in the sun, he was sud-
denly amazed by his cleverness.
For the sheer satisfaction of it
he pressed both hands to the left
side of his chest and tightened
the lines on his fr ee. He waited
a minute and opened his eyes.
A couple of people were watch-
mg him anxiously He removed
the hands from his chest and
drew a deep breath through his
mouth The people moved away.
He twisted his head towards Joe
™ r ’ , , . .
The old chest s giving me a
bit of jip lately.
Sheaffer said flatly “You’d
have something to complain
about if you had my back.”
There was no rebuke in
Sheaffer’s comment. They were
words to be produced simply as
a defence. They lapsed into
silence.
At half-past three they went
back to the hotel for their after-
noon middies. When they drank
them, it was time to go home.
He left Sheaffer on the hotel
corner.
TM MEDIATELY he came to
the street he knew something
was wrong. Women were hang-
ing over front fences, and, in
little islands along the street,
others stood talking in groups,
He stood for a moment on the
corner, feeling the growth of his
curiosity. He was aware of his
impatience. For once the display
of his weakness offered him no
satisfaction! He moved thirty
yards along the street and rested
with his hand against a
telegraph-pole,
Then he realised the women
on the fences and the little
groups were no longer con-
cerned with their discussions,
They were looking towards him.
His eyes moved along the street,
and, for the first time in years,
he was aware of a feeling of self-
consciousness. In some strange
way he seemed to be outside his
body, critically studying his
p OS t U ring progress. He moved
away f rom the pole a little
uncer tainly, and with a disturb-
j feeling of insecurity. Ahead
of him? a couple J women
move( j aW ay and entered their
houses
j
He halted and touched a hand
a *?? s ‘ c^ s \ th “ ”°« d
unhl he came level with the first
o£ the of women There
was 30. metthing odd m the way
' e r v . 00 ' ct a£ Im * H® nodded
and knew at once they had
nothing to say to him. His
bewildermel i t i ncreased , He
twisted hjs head and , k
alon [he s
. ,
The woman next-door was
standing at her front gate talking
t 0 Coljn j* nk
leached out and colin a
push her han |. Colin
was wa i k j n „ a i ong the street
, owards him Xhe a dejK .
tkm jn his whole attitude '„ d
he walked without h , ’ H
st d when he
Hennessey, and his tongue licked
nervously against his lips,
Ronn s ie . s missu .S' he said
uncomfortably . “The baker
£olmd her w &, her ’ ea d in the
oven. She’s dead."
a moment Hennessey
-*■ stood there without compre-
hension. There was a dryness in
his throat, and the tightness of
his chest made breathing diffi-
cult. He opened his mouth, but
there were no words for him to
S ay. He raised his head and
looked past Colin to the house.
The front door was open, the
windows raised,
A voice near him said
“Ronnie’s gone along to the
hospital.”
He started to walk, his eyes
staring straight ahead, his legs •
dragging, and turned in at the
front-gate. A long distance
away, he heard the voice of the
woman next-door, “A proper old
gent, he is. Never had an ill-
word to say about her, and good-
ness alone knows he had cause
to often enough.”
He sat on the edge of the bed,
staring across at the wall,
conscious of an emptiness in his
body, and a helpless weakness
jn his arms and legs. The
complete hopelessness of the
moment took possession of him.
His eyes clouded and he felt the
warmth of tears on his cheeks,
He looked down at his hands
and knew, suddenly, that he had
become an old man waiting only
for death.
bung, and gone off, and the
receivers are in.
You have one-and-tuppence,
and your belongings in a suit-
case, and you set off a bit
vaguely for anywhere. The
shilling only takes you to Essen-
don, so you trudge on, heading
north, and making what you
want out of the suitcase into a
swag and leaving the rest in a
paddock.
There’s odd jobs on the way,
and you get to Albury, where
you fall in with a drover and
take on a job cooking for his
' outfit between there and Wagga,
After that it’s napping stone on
a concrete job in Junee, trying
to make and save enough to get
to Sydney, in which you’re
helped a bit by a pub at which
at a certain time every day they
put on a spread of a pot of beer
and saveloys and tomato-sauce
for a zack.
When eventually you do get
to this Sydney you’ve heard so
much about you have around
50-bob in your kick. You’re
now in the tail-end of the
’twenties. You’ve got no job,
and Sydney certainly has no
jobs on offer. You’re impressed,
through close acquaintance, with
the heaps of spoil from the
underground railway rearing up
about Hyde Park. They’re
among the things from here and
there you specially remember.
They call them after the Lord
Mayor, Paddy Stokes’s Moun-
tains. And, anyhow, the whole
city looks as if it could do with
a wash. It’s somehow all
broken-down and grubby-look-
ing.
You’re starting to look that
way, too, yourself. There’s no
place to wash where you’re
dossing, and the trouble with
saltwater is it wets you but it
doesn’t clean you. So you start
thinking that in the bush you’ll
at least be able to get clean
again, and get something to eat;
and you head off out along the
Paramatta-road, making west,
and get a lift to Penrith.
You’re camping there down
under the bridge. . .you’ve got
your billy, and some tea and
sugar. ...and you see smoke
coming out of an old stone house
over the bridge. So you go
across thinking you’ll get some
hot water, and scare the life
out of a couple of girls in there,
but that’s all right, and they
make your tea for you. They’re
on their way up to the Blue
Mountains, looking for a job ;
and it’s the first time you’ve
seen girls on the track. Things
are tough.
They’re tough all right. The
chap who’s giving you a lift is
taking you on to Katoomba,
but you’re standing up in the
back of the truck when he starts
and you topple out on to your
elbow. It’s a bit sore...by the
time you get to Katoomba it’s
worse...then it puffs up and
you feel crook and conk over
and wake up in the Katoomba
Hospital, and live on beef-tea
and better for six weeks and
come out pretty fit. But that’s
why your left arm’s now several
inches shorter than your right.
Anyway, you’re presently over
the Mountains, and going on in
the general direction of the west.
And is it cold! Camping along
the road, in the Bathurst and
other parks in inches of frost.
And every town you come to has
a ring of blokes round it;
they’re on the track, too, look-
ing for jobs. You yourself
strike one at Trangie, emu-
bobbing—picking-up and burn-
ing-off on contract. You’ve
earned enough to get some fresh
clothes, and have about 20 quid
and it’s a fortune ; and you read
in a paper about a sheep-show
coming off at Forbes, which
makes it seem a good place to
head for to get another job.
You land one, too, on a sheep
place out of the town; and,
though you don’t know it yet,
you’re just about done with
your career as Charles Shaw,
unskilled laborer.
It comes about through the
Australian Rules football.
There’s a bit in the “Western
Sun” about some enthusiasts
trying to get the Aussie game
going in Forbes, inviting any-
one interested to come along.
You’ve bought yourself a pony,
so you go in on a Saturday and
find them kicking the ball
around at theMshowground. One
of them’s Barney Taylor, who,
with his brother Jack, runs the
“Western Sun,” and, anyway,
the upshot is that, as well as
captaining and coaching the
Forbes team in the competition
that gets going, you try your
hand writing for the paper ; then
writing a column for it; then
getting a job ojj it.
There’s another paper in the
town, the “Advocate.” It’s
been burnt down and built
again, but the going’s pretty
rough, and this is something
like Granny “Herald” and the
Sydney “Sun,” only there it’s
the “Sun” that moves in on the
“Advocate,” and you’re sent
along as the first, so to speak, to
show the flag.
The paper keeps going as the
“Advocate,” and with plenty
news, too, to keep it going.
Forbes always has been a
specially lively place for news.
You’re shown no fewer than
seven hills north of it on each
one of which you’re told Ben
Hall was shot. He’s buried, any-
way, in the Forbes cemetery.
So is Kate Kelly. The news at
this particular time, though, is
produced by a firebug. Pretty
well every night you’re out
watching and reporting on a
fresh fire. It goes on for months,
with the mystery all the time of
who the firebug is. There’s all
sorts of theories, and every-
body has his suspicions, but no-
body ever finds out.
As far as you’re concerned,
though, there’s money in it.
By this time you’ve become
the local correspondent for the
old Sydney “Evening News”
and “Truth,” and they lap up
this firebug stuff, and, of course,
you make the most of it. You’ve
been trying other papers in Syd-
ney, too, and doing all right
with “Smith’s Weekly” and
some more of them, but still not
being able to crack it with The
Bulletin. Then somebody
writes something in The Bulle-
tin about Henry Lawson that
isn’t right, and only a day or
two before Gerry Flynn, the
C.P.S. at Forbes, has been show-
ing you the entry in the register
of the birth of Henry Larsen,
son of Peter Larsen, and born
at Grenfell. So you write in a
par. correcting this Bulletin
bloke, and in it goes, and.,.
And at this point we can
mark down Charles Shaw, alias
Bant Singer, as well on the way
from unskilled bush laborer to
professional writer ; one they’re
now talking about in terms of
world fame.
Getting into The Bulletin
first with his bit about Lawson,
Charles hasn’t missed a week
since! He’s that prolific sort
of a writer, which is what they’ll
be expecting and getting from
alias Bant Singer. Unskilled
bush laborer turned full-fledged
journalist, he shifted to the city
to take on a job with a land
paper, the “Farmer and Settler,”
and was eventually thinking of
getting on the move again, to
try Queensland, when he wan-
dered into The Bulletin one
day in 1939 to ask for some
advice on the possible prospects
up there and then-editor John
Webb nailed him with the offer
of a place on the staff. He’s
still on it; and now he’s in the
big-seller class, and there’s no
telling what he might be in for.
You’re Wrong, Delaney isn’t,
of course, the first book with
which he’s cracked the overseas
jackpot. His Heaven Knows,
Mr. Allison, under his own
name, proved a very big seller
indeed, and is still going strong.
About December it’s being done
in a pocketbook edition in
America under another title;
the film rights have been sold,
it sold as a serial in both Eng-
land and Australia, it’s been
translated into Spanish for
Mexico and is being translated
into Dutch, and any day now
Charles himself is leaving here
for Hollywood on a five-
thousand-dollar contract to put
in a few weeks writing Mr.
Allison into film shape.
His publishers, as soon as
they’d read You’re Wrong,
Delaney, 'suggested that, it being
so entirely different from
Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison, it
would go best under an alias.
Hence alias Bant ■ Singer,
for his distinctly Australian
You’re Wrong, Delaney.
It’s Australian all right,
most definitely. So, definitely,
is Delaney. And perhaps if we
had known, among others, the
cove who broke up that nap
game in the train as well as
Charles Shaw knew him and
Emil the Dane and the rest of
them we’d have a good enough
clue on Delaney and on what
he might be expected to do next.
THE LODGER
That air yields body room:
That is the thing.
More tenable than home.
And greater than spring
Driving the bull-like' dream
From its hidden haunt
For wedlock on the farm,
To still all want :
The lodger's thought that you
are;
No more, not less;
Of substance, as a star,
In the universe.
The strawlike volume you hold
In your clenched hand,
The world, when kneeling you
fold,
And unfold as you stand;
Your delicate place in the
dream—
Not the dream—are the things
More tenable than home
And sensual springs.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 246
Across
I—Bachelors1 —Bachelors enjoy this tennis by a
a gallery man in Victoria before
the orange-blossom time. (6, 5)
6 —Famous Bulletin identity bound
with brewing material. (3)
8— -Give the venerable Bradman a
weapon in the final battlefield.
(10)
9 What angry comic-paper dogs
sometimes say to it with fortitude
and fighting spirit. (4)
11 — South muddled when prepared
for a rider. (7)
12— African one shall not take ego,
with the tree against. (7)
14 — Gland with your genus of
rodents. (6)
15— The sillier act by the jetty. (6)
17 —Silky state set down by the
minute. (6)
19 —Publicity on apartments applies
something to new uses. (6)
22 — Irate description with a disinclina-
tion to move. (7)
23 — Yours Truly takes who and what
French port in Chile. (7)
26 — A bashful grey. (4)
27 Opposing a bite with a French
peer. (8)
28— Tree. (3)
29 — Where the beak dominates and
Italian river typhus-carriers woo.
(6, 5)
Down
1— Remains in foundation garments.
(5)
2 Rover says everybody is rational.
(5) .
3 Oftside colleague according to the
rules. (7)
4 Instrument aligned itself with the
queer. (4-4)
5 A seedcase to Jolson without
feet. (6)
6 Rogue of Walpole goes around
on bird hatcheries. (9)
7 Strike the king-emperor and the
waggish tribal leader. (9)
10 —He interrupts to name this boy.
(4) .
13 — Punish Yours Truly when coming
between the people in the play
and the takings. (9)
14— The end of the Hottentot and
the middle pig suburb of Mel-
bourne. (9)
16 —Cat I raid in sea. (8)
18 —Observe an element of music. (4)
20— Hydrocyanic makes us crisp. (7)
21 — Mother Christmas, a Portuguese
ruler. (6)
24—Do you make a wisecrack about
one of the threads in the written
language of the Incas. (5)
25—The G.I. in a Head-of-the-River
crew. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 245


CREATIVE HOME
DECORATING
by H. K. Rockow and J. Rockow
Includes hundreds of photographs
(55 rooms in colour), diagrams and
illustrations: gives simple directions
for all home decorating projects;
guides to buying furniture and car-
pets; and hundreds of traditional
and modern room plans.
59/- (post 2/1)
BLACK’S MEDICAL
DICTIONARY
J. D. Comrie & W. A. R. Thomson
The completely revised and re-set
1953 edition, gives authoritative in-
formation in intelligible language on
medical subjects of importance and
general m.ere.t.
subjects such as A.t-- 1 •** >
auujvuw
fluorine and dextrain
(nlnsf 2/3)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any of the new books now availabl
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth tree ,
g
CARSON
by H. MONTGOMERY HYDE
This entertaining full length biography i. filled with hrilUfnt *otoh«,.nd
Irish Bar. It also tells of some of the greatest eases in British Histo'ryi ln o{
appeared, amongst them those of Oscar ilde and Archer-Shee. . T,ie ’ f Carson ’ s life
Carson’s political struggles. Mr. Hyde has preserved the attractive Has our of Carson sme
and defined his character in sharp detail.
Melbourne
At all booksellers. .31/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
• ; London s :
Auckland
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY
The Most Comprehensive Collection of the
Great Books of the World
A few of 500 authors
Ainsworth
Aristotle
Jane Austen
Balzac
Blake
Boswell
The Brontes
Browning
Bunyan
Burns
Byron
Carlyle
Chaucer
Chesterton
Coleridge
Dante
Darwin
De la Mare
Dickens
Donne
Dostoevsky
Dryden
Dumas
George Eliot
Euripides
Fielding
Gibbon
Goethe
Price in Australia
600 Volumes available in F’cap Octavo 7/9
The YOUNG PEOPLE’S VOLUMES are all 7/9 have colored jackets,
and include: Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glasi_VSf
Lewis Carroll (No. 836) ; Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe (No. 59),
Tom Brown’s Schooldays by Thomas Hughes (No. 58) ; Bevis: J h^tor y
of a Boy by Richard Jefferies (No. 850); Tales from Shakespeare by Charles
and Mary Lamb (No. 8); A Book of Nonsense by Edward Lear (No. 806),
Masterman Ready by Frederick Marryat (No !60); B l J
Anna Sewell (No. 748); Uncle Tom’s Cabin by Harriet Beecher Stowe
(No. 371); Treasure Island and Kidnapped by R. L. Stevenson (No. 763),
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea by Jules Verne (No. 31 ),
Swiss Family Robinson by Jean Rudolph Wyss (No. 430).
New Volumes and Reprints in the larger
format, Crown Octavo
including the following now ready:
Troilus and Criseyde by Geoffrey Chaucer (No. 992); The
Tatler by Sir Richard Steele (No. 993); Homer’s Odyssey
(Translated by S. O. Andrew) (No. 454); Caesar’s War
Commentaries (No. 702); The Decameron by Giovanni
Boccaccio (Nos. 845-6); Complete Horace (No. 515); Two
Treatises of Civil Government by John Locke (No. 751);
Grace Abounding and The Life and Death of Mr Badman
by John Bunyan (No. 815); A Tale of a Tub, etc., by
Jonathan Swift (No. 347); Poetics, etc., by Aristotle (No.
901); Anthology of English Prose (No. 675); Le Morte
D’Arthur by Sir Thomas Malory (Nos. 45-6); The Warden
by Anthony Trollope (No. 182); Stories, Essays, and Poems
by G. K. Chesterton (No. 913).
(Retail prices in
Australia given)
Red Binding
and Wrapper
Plays by Ben Jonson (Nos. 489-90); Sophocles’ Dramas
(No. 114); Offices, Essays, and Letters by Cicero (No. 345);
Minor Poets of the 17th Century (No. 873); Shakespeare’s
Comedies', Historical Plays, Poems, and Sonnets', Tragedies
(Nos. 153-5); Angel Pavement by J. B. Priestley (No. 938);
Little Dorrit, Our Mutual Friend, and David Copperfield
by Charles Dickens (Nos. 293, 294, 242); The Idiot by
Fyodor Dostoevsky (No. 682); The History of England by
Macaulay (Nos. 34-7).
Blue Binding
and Wrapper
Obtainable from all booksellers
Published by J. M. DENT & SONS LTD
Aldine House, Bedford Street, London, W.C.2
Distributed by GEORGIAN HOUSE (PTY) LTD
P.O. Box 52, Albert Park, Victoria
set of trousers, that their attention was
becoming somewhat strained. At 3. 15 he
was suddenly guilty of a slight but detinue
lapse of breathing... .Valentino placed his
hand before his mouth and remarked
faintly, but with appalling clarity, "Par-
don.” There was a little further talk about
clothes, but the spell was broken.
Reviewed Briefly
Jenkin’s Green: Ralph Arnold (Heine-
mann). This mystery begins with con-
sideration by the board of a publishing-
company of a detectiVe-story so curious
that a young member of the board is
deputed to get a final opinion on it from
the Chief Constable of Grebeshire, At
the same time, he is to show the Crow
Diaries to the biographer Oliver Heritage,
Who has married Crow’s widow, and is
writing Crow’s life. Poisoning of a harm-
less old lady starts a series of investiga-
tions which end with the discovery that
the curious detective-story which worried
the publisher’s board is a disguised
account of everything that happened
later—a new and adroit variation on the
detective-story theme.
* * *
Jerusalem : William Blake, with fore-
word by Geoffrey Keynes (Trianon
Press, for the William Blake Trust). A
curiosity of publishing which repro-
duces facsimile a curiosity of literature
and bibliography—the “Rinder” volume
of Jerusalem, Which is one of the four
copies of the original edition printed in
black which are still known to exist.
There is not much beauty in the facsimile
reproduction with its necessarily cramped
letter-press and heavy black pages of
drawings, but it remains, with moments
of charm, extremely interesting; while
for the reader who is primarily con-
cerned with the literary interest of this
strange poem, so very much like Pound’s
Cantos in its mixture of lovely lines of
poetry with boring politics and unintel-
ligible prophetic rantings, the text is also
reprinted in ordinary typography. The
edition is limited to 2500 copies.
* * * *
The Burlesque Voyage: Derrick Ball
(Peter Davies). An ingenuous and
innocent backwoods youth, Harry
Taylor, whose ambition is to be
a sailor, comes to Vancouver and
is misled into buying an exaggerated
outfit of seafaring clothes, includ-
ing a pair of enormous sea-boots
of antique design and construction. From
this moment his appearance becomes
more that of a sailor than any sailor’s
ever was. A thug bashes him, mistakenly
thinking he has been paid-off a ship, and
he wakes up in hospital with multiple
head-injuries. The reader does not re-
quire any hints from the dustcOver or,
towards the end Of the book an explicit
statement from the author, to realise that
Sailor (who never does get to sea) is
Everyman. Nearly all the characters he
meets are symbolic: Joe, the tough man
paralysed by an accident; Mamie, the
prostitute; the red-haired policeman;
Mr. Mote, the dwarfish lavatory-attend-
ant; Professor Rhamskull, a fairground
entrepreneur; Ruthie, a mermaid; the
taxi-driver and Madame de Fleur,
brothel-madam; not to mention the Sea-
boots, characters in their own right. Ex-
actly what all these symbolise is some-
times obvious, sometimes to be interpreted
by Everyreader. The author’s main idea
seems to be that every man (and Every-
man) is the dream of some other man.
In various ways Sailor has been dreamed
by each character: or he causes their
dream. Readers who dislike allegorical
fantasy should not touch this book—
those who do will find it well and provo-
catively written, with a liberal salting of
ironic humor.
* * * *
The Schinner Inheritance : Eric Ambler
(Heineraann). A first-rate adventure-
thriller by a writer who will be remem-
bered for other excellent novels in this
genre— Judgment on Deltchev and The
Mask of Dimitrios —and for some
notable film-scripts. In this book an
American lawyer, rather a smug and
highly “correct” young man, is sent to
Europe by-his firm to make inquiries as
to the heir to a large fortune. His
searches in company with a female in-
terpreter whom he dislikes lead him from
post-war Germany to Greece. Ambler
knows his European politics backwards
and uses their ramifications cleverly as
a background to a fast-moving story,
well-written and with convincing charac-
ters.
$ * * ♦
Heaven and Earth: Carlo Coccioli
(Heinemann). This Italian novel, based
on facts, tells the life-story of a priest,
Don Ardito Piccardi. In 1935 he assisted
a peasant girl, Theresa Vanucci, who had
several visions of the Virgin Mary, and
with her he was a central figure in a
series of events which resulted in the
apparently miraculous cure of a para-
lysed boy. Piccardi was regarded as an
unusual priest by his teachers, his village
parishioners, the audiences who heard
and read his lectures on Catholic
philosophy, and by various persons
sceptical of the Roman Catholic religion.
But as portrayed here he was essentially
a medieval man; a believer-in and
caster-out of demons. According to
Coccioli there Was an almost mystical
relationship between the early actions of
Piccardi and the subsequent events which
resulted in his death at the hands of a
German firing-squad.
* * * *
The Leaves of the Tree: Eiluned
Lewis (Peter Davies). Max Beerbohm
has said that this novel contains “beauty
and profundity and pathos and poetry
and all that the heart desires.”
The present reader found it too
archly whimsical and, in its formal
construction, confusing. For more than
half of its length Sharon Westerly, a
little girl living with her elderly aunt, is
the main character. She becomes friendly
with Victor Lavelli, a famous French
painter, and his sister Emilia who live in
a country cottage surrounded by a
menagerie of assorted animals, including
a Cold-Comfort-Farmish gardener. Then
a second important character is intro-
duced: Damaris, whose husband (for
it is now 1941 or so) is fighting in
Egypt and, later, is captured by the
Italians. Damaris and Victor (Emilia
having died suddenly) converse at length
about her rather unbelievable theories of
love, and she, quite needlessly and almost
on purpose, dies. Sharon comes back
to the story in an Epilogue.
* * * *
The Puppet-Masters: Robert A. Hem-
lein (Museum Press). A flying-saucer
lands in America from another world,
and releases a swarm of jelly-like para-
sites that crawl round human necks and
make people from radio-announcers to
Cabinet Ministers do as the invading
master-brains direct. The head of an
American secret department and his in-
vestigator-son awake the nation to the
danger; the son becomes a victim of the
parasite, and then the subject of an ex-
periment with one; he marries the
beautiful woman-investigator, and, find-
ing a parasite on her neck, burns oft her
beautiful red hair in an effort to scorch
it off at the living-room fire. In the end,
everyone is going round almost or com-
pletely naked so that the police can see
immediately who is parasite-ridden, which
shows that it is an ill wind that blows
no one any good.
TIME-LOVER
As a lad I loved all clocks,
And in a ring of creek-smoothed stones
That numbered twelve, time-proud I’d
stand;
My hour and my minute hand
Were sticks, or long, white bones.
Now I’ve a clock with brilliant lace
Of farmyard with enamelled flowers.
And on the second hand, tick-tock.
The artisan has fixed a cock
That pecks away the hours.
And when from cleansing solitude
I come, with all my strengths content,
The fairy cock pecks out, tick-tock,
A poem on the pretty clock
That tells of time well spent.
But when from alley, hall or mart
I come with all my strengths awry,
The red-eyed cock’s beak is a dart
That digs, tick-tocking at my heart
Until 1 wake ... or die.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS H. CLARK.


0
\
\
S
vv
• •
that slip; through your finger;
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
. %.
iff
v
y y
■
>■ rm
,
The
CITIZENS
and
MUTUAL
LIFE
The
Limited
Co
Assurance
mm
-
••
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
g
