

FOB PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“POOR, YES, BUT. . .’'—PAGE 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3831
Wednesday, July 15, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N S W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Jeppelts
CHARLECOTE HOUSE, WHERE YOUNG BILL SHAKESPEARE SOUGHT ILLEGAL GAME
REFLECTED in the quiet waters of Shakespeare’s Avon, four miles from
Stratford, is Charlecote House, a magnificent Elizabethan mansion dating
from 1558. For over eight hundred years Charlecote has been, the seat of
the Lucy family and is now the home of Sir Montgomery Fairfax-Lucy, who
presented this historic property with its park of two hundred acres to the
National Trust in 1945 for its permanent safe keeping.
Charlecote is unique among country houses for its brief association with
William Shakespeare, who, as a youth, came one night from Stratford on a
poaching expedition for the purpose of capturing one of the many deer
which roamed in the park. He is reputed to have been caught in the act by
the gamekeepers, confined all night, and brought before Sir Thomas Lucy,
resident magistrate, in the hall of Charlecote House the following morning
for reproof, if not punishment. Smarting with indignation, Shakespeare is
said to have written ribald verses about Sir Thomas Lucy and to have stuck
them on the park gatehouse. Subsequently, so the story goes, the neighbor-
hood became too hot to hold the youthful poet and so he escaped to London
to seek his fortune and there established his lasting fame. Shakespeare
finally paid off his old score by bringing the knight on to the stage as a
figure of fun, first in Henry IV and then as the character of Justice Shallow
in the “Merry Wives of Windsor.”
The mellow brick gatehouse, known to Shakespeare, is the only, and
finest architectural feature of the original house, built in the reign of Henry
VIII, to survive unaltered. The house itself, although built in 1558, under-
went some structural alterations in 1786 and 1823. The plan of the building
is that of a spacious front with two wings projecting from it at right angles.
The whole forms a perfect specimen of Elizabethan architecture. The arms
of Queen Elizabeth I over the doorway commemorates her visit to Charlecote
in 1572 as the guest of Sir Thomas Lucy.
In the spacious rooms of this great mansion may be seen rich tapestries
as well as valuable paintings by Gainsborough, Kneller and other famous
artists.
In the park still roam the herds of deer whose ancestors eluded the
youthful Shakespeare.


CAREER PLANNING
STOTT’S can prepare you—in your OWN
HOME—for a SUCCESSFUL CAREER or
for PROMOTION in your present sphere.
Mail the Coupon today.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
I hresscutting/ Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Faj-m Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Survcying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Eatimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
amiamitdiiiM
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
U ~~CVT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
I fo STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
1 obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
I my name
j address
I (5.8.553) AOE
The Red Page
THREE AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Eleanor Dark
Perhaps the best thing about No
Barrier (Collins), the third volume of
Eleanor Dark’s sequence of historical
novels which began with The Timeless
Land, is that for once this austere novelist
permits herself, faintly; to smile.
Johnny Prentice, her wild white man
born of convict parents, who in his boy-
hood has run away to live with the
aborigines and to carve a farm for him-
self in a secret valley of the Blue Moun-
tains, has abducted —after killing her hus-
band —the bride of a surly and scoun-
drelly ex-convict; and Emily, a pleasant
little who grew up in the Rev.
Samuel Marsden’s orphanage, is really
quite amusing as she demonstrates to
Johnny some of the disadvantages of
letting a white woman loose in his
bachelor retreat:
By the beginning of summer Emily had
settled down to domestic life with her
abductor, but Johnny was still wrestling
rebelliously with the discovery that white
women were as restless as white men, and
even more unpredictable This woman,
instead of merely filling the niche left
vacant by Ngili, seemed to threaten
invasion of his whole life and thought....
One of her first actions had been to gather
together the old blankets and every garment
she could find, and march off with them to
the creek. When he followed, alarmed, he
found her kneeling on a flat rock, punch-
ing and pounding them in the water,. and
she greeted him with a tirade because there
was no soap Every morning she
straightened the purified blankets on the
beds. She took the skins outside and beat
them furiously with a stick... .She made an
implement from a grass-tree shaft and a
bundle of' green twigs, with which she
energetically expelled through the doorway
a cloud of dust....
It is also worth noting that one of the
Mannions, a family whose chief use so
far in the saga has been to illustrate the
wickeffness of wealth and success—
floggers of convicts, seducers of female
assigned-servants and aboriginal maidens,
oppressors of their wives, tyrants at
home and abroad —has been endowed
with the charm and dash to make him
an attractive personality and, since there
is balance in his portrait, a more credible
human being than most of the others of
his cold clan.
This is Miles Mannion, who secretly
crosses the Blue Mountains before Law-
son, Blaxland and Wentworth to discover
Johnny Prentice’s retreat and the golden
plains of the west. Incidentally, this de-
termination to race the explorers across
the mountains—Johnny Prentice is first,
after the aborigines ; then Miles Mannion
—emerges, oddly, almost as the major
theme of this volume of the saga.
When it has these patches of life, and
when as a whole the novel has the three-
fold appeal of moving easily through
another section of Australian history, of
painting graceful and sympathetic por-
traits of women, whether fictional such
as Mrs. Mannion and Emily or historical
such as Mrs. Macquarie and Mrs, Mac-
arthur, and of telling a romantic adven-
ture-story in the vein of Robinson Crusoe
through the career of Johnny Prentice,
there is no reason why No Barrier
should not be as popular as its prede-
cessors in Mrs. Dark’s series—both of
which were Australian best-sellers. Cer-
tainly, with the writing always dis-
tinguished, the intellectual standard, if
tinged with Leftism, high, and with so
many years of our history now covered
with steadfast purpose, the sequence de-
serves the respect of a major undertaking
in Australian fiction.
But, for all that, No Barrier seems to
this reviewer to stop considerably short
of a rounded and satisfying achieve-
ment.
The characters, in the first place,
rarely seem fully alive or convincing in
their motives and behavior. There is no
perceptible reason why Patrick Mannion,
Miles’s brother, should spend most of his
life hunting for his childhood friend
Johnny Prentice, filled with remorse be-
cause, at her own request, he has allowed
Johnny’s mother to be hanged for a
murder which Johnny committed. In
Mrs. Dark’s political mysticism Patrick
seems to represent the Repentant
Squatter, without really having anything
to be repentant about.
And then, seeing that he is credited
with this passionate anxiety to meet and
make friends with Johnny, there seems
to be no valid reason why, when Miles
returns from England and wants to do
the same thing—with the much more
plausible motive of trying to engage him
as a guide across the mountains—Patrick
should try so furiously to stop his brother
doing it. The explanation that he has
fallen in love with Miles’s wife and
doesn’t want to betray his brother is in-
sufficient ; and in any case it is hardly
convincing that Laetetia should turn
from the gay and adventurous Miles to
fall in love with the dour and drooping
Patrick.
There seems no good reason, again,
for Laetetia, English as she is, to feel
terror at the mere sight of the aboriginal
girl Dilboong whom Patrick has gloomily
seduced; and when Patrick and Laetetia
turn Dilboong away from the property,
and she drowns herself, one does not feel
that this is a genuine tragedy of heart-
break but rather that Mrs. Dark is merely
tidying-up a character, and making one
more point in the indictment against
the squattocracy.
And, to end a catalogue of doubts
which could be extended, one does not
feel that the wild Johnny Prentice, living
in a state of murderous hate against the
Mannions and all other white men, really
has a human heart inside him, but only
a storyteller’s machine; and, when he
has been half-tamed by Emily, his deci-
sion towards the end of the novel to
rob the colonists travelling the new road
over the mountains seems less a natural
development of his character than a
device to get him into trouble in the next
volume of the series.
A disadvantage for which one cannot
fairly criticise the novelist is that the
history she covers in this volume —the end
of Bligh’s reign and the opening years
of Macquarie’s—has been many times
written and rewritten by other novelists
and by such historians as Dr. George
Mackaness, Dr. H. V. Evatt and
M. H. Ellis. But it remains a
Valid criticism that Mrs. Dark’s
method, though appealing in the portraits
of the women and always temperate,
lacks color and vitality—no feeling of
human warmth emerges in the picture of
the period—and that the historical events
have no true connection, in the sense
of dramatic unity, with the story of the
Mannions. It is not enough really to
bind the family and historical themes
together that Macquarie, in the course
of his inspection of the colony, should
drop in at the Mannion property, or that
Mrs. Mannion should occasionally call
upon Mrs. Macarthur.
Of course it could be argued that in
the sequence as a whole Mrs. Dark is
really more concerned with the history
of New South Wales than with the story
of the Mannions; or that in the broadest
and longest view the family saga and
the history of the colony are inevitably
finked; but they would need to be linked
more closely, more intimately, more
organically, to make this novel satisfying
as a work of art.
THE HIGH PLAINS
I
Over the high plain
Horse and horseman go
Around the sheep in greasy coats
That wear a mask of snow.
Peter, bring them down
With dog and whip and cry,
The snow-masked corriedales
That graze against the sky;
For the winds cry aloud
And the moon has slipped her chain
And winter brings her ewes
To the high plain.
II
On the high plains by Dairyman
If you look up, you’ll see
Peter Quinn and his hollow mare
Caught in a spider-tree.
Along the banks of Dairyman
The paper daisies grow
That lock the sunlight in their palm
As they go under snow.
There summertime and Dairyman
Talk to themselves in sleep;
The winds blow round the mountainside
And Quinn goes round the sheep.
Who from the pools of Dairyman
Has learned the dreamer’s power
To shut up mountains in his mind
As the seed holds the flower;
And though snow covers Dairyman,
A listener may hear
The water talking to the stones
And Peter to his mare.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
J.E. Macdonnell
Parts of J. E. Macdonnell’s novel
Gimme the Boats (Constable) have
appeared in The Bulletin as short-
stories, signed “Macnell” ; it has also
been serialised in Sydney “Sunday
Herald” and is being broadcast as a radio
serial Which indicates that seafaring
stories are popular, and that this one has
the quality to hold its place in the line.
Its strength comes partly from the
firm portraits of naval officers and men,
partly from the exciting or amusing epi-
sodes of action at sea and leave ashore,
partly from the documentary interest of
its picture of a destroyer of the R.A.N.
in the recent war in the Pacific—a rare
piece of information from the Silent
Service.
Among the characters are Big Bill
Mallett, D. 5.0., the commander who
loses his command through getting drunk
in port; Petty-officer Brady, who shoots-
down a Japanese plane with direct-action
ammunition and no aid from radar, and
through whose experienced eyes we see
most of the life afloat and ashore ; and
the coolly efficient Captain James
Brookes, who takes over command of the
Scourge after the unlucky Big Bill has
been dismissed, and who, aware of the
danger of another attack, has not the
slightest hesitation in leaving the crew
of a Japanese submarine, which he has
just rammed, to drown;
“Survivors in the water, sir,” Thurlow
reported from under his glasses.
James’s answer was to turn to the
yeoman. “Order Searcher and Pathfinder
to continue searching [for submarines].
Crecy to rejoin the screen.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
There are the episodes of Big Bill, and
Brady’s shooting-down the plane, and
the ramming; and the hounding of a
Japanese submarine to be wrecked on a
reef; a nervous and seasick surgeon
doing an appendicitis-operation at sea; a
lively and Rabelaisian night ashore; an
excellent Christmas Day comedy when
one of the petty-officers impersonates the
commander and boards a British de-
stroyer for drinks ; a powerful story of a
gunner whose overstrained nerves make
him a coward and who fights his terror
through a night-action with a Japanese
cruiser and again next day through a
bombing-attack.
From the documentary point of view
the naval scene is as vividly authentic
(Macdonnell having served in destroyers)
as anything in the same writer’s Valiant
Occasions; and here, in such episodes
as that of the nervy gunner, the writing
has the extra force of a drama of
character:
His right fingers squeezed. A tiny current
ran down from trigger to guns. Then the
whole world seemed to explode in a blind-
ing burst of orange light. The ship heeled
under the thrust of the broadside. The
roar of 5001 b. of cordite releasing its
giant strength beat across the water
The control-officer was jubilant. “Guns,
you’re a bloody marvel!” The gunner
turned his head up, arid managed a grin, a .
mere creasing of his sweat-shining face.
“A bloody marvel,” was he?....When the
after-effects of his fright were the only
strength in him, striving still to overmaster
his outward calm and swamp him in hysteria.
The only thing marvellous about it was
that he was still at his action-station, that
he had retained sufficient calm to sight and
fire his guns at all.
Rather surprisingly, seeing that Gimme
the Boats is a novel and so would be
expected to have this extra force all the
way through, the book does not, as a
whole, make so strong an impact as
Valiant Occasions. The reason is that
in the earlier work, even though it was
a scattered collection of essays on naval-
actions from all over the world, Mac-
donnell was writing to one clear theme:
the heroism of sailors: whereas here,
unpractised in the novel, he never really
seems sure what his central theme is—
whether it is Petty-officer Brady as “the
backbone of the Navy,” or Captain
Brookes coolly running the gauntlet of
the seas until he is wounded in action,
or merely the saga of the destroyer
Scourge herself as she rolls about the sea
collecting scalps and scars and new
captains.
From the mixture of these themes
there comes enough continuity to hold
the work loosely together as a novel; but
it is really a book to read for the richness
and strength of the episodes packed into
the loose framework.
Dymphna Cusack
Dymphna Cusack’s Southern Steel
(Constable), like Come In Spinner, is
also a war-time novel, this time about
Newcastle (N. S. Wales).
It concerns three brothers: Bar, named
after Bar Beach, who has studied to
qualify as an expert and executive in
the big Newcastle firm Southern Steel
(which is expressly not the 8.H.P.); Rud,
who has become a union secretary, and
who pastes election-bills, with his promise
to “nationalise steel,” on the walls of
his brother’s factory, much to his
brother’s discomfiture; and Landy, a
hand on one of the Southern Steel
company’s ships.
Bar opens the novel by returning from
a business-trip abroad to lunch with
the firm’s managing-head. He is a
“bosses’ man.”-—he does not write to
his brothers or father to tell them he is
coming home. He is married to Roz, an
ex-schoolteacher busily pushing him up-
wards. She keeps a modern house on
the hillside for him, with correctly chosen
wines, and she tries to separate him from
old associations, and his father and
nephew from the friends of their child-
hood, the Boultons; cold and hard, she
is.
The main contribution of Bar and Roz
to the action is that Bar falls heavily
for the girl-wife of a young steel-expert
who has joined the Army; the young
wife gives him tenderness and passion
he does not find in Roz. Roz is told of
the affair by friends; she goes to tell
the young wife to lay-off. Bar arrives
in the middle of things. But the young
wife has just received fi telegram that her
husband is wounded. When Bar makes
his dramatic declaration that he will
give up all for love, he is amazed to
find that she has forgotten him com-
pletely, and is only anxious to pack
quickly and journey up to her wounded
husband.
Landy is in love with the Boulton
girl; his ship is blown-up by a Japanese
submarine. On hearing this, and pre-
suming him dead, the girl runs madly
off to the beach with a soldier, but they
are disturbed by a prowler before matters
have gone too far, and rightly so; for
Landy is picked-up, and his boat towed
home by some honest fishermen; and
the saved mariners interrupt a welcome-
speech on the wharf with some very
harsh language.
The welcome-home is somewhat cir-
cumstantial :
As they approached the pier in Watson’s
Bay they distinguished in the gloom a group
in navy-blue, resplendent with gold braid
and a bewildering variety of straight and
wavy stripes A portly figure stepped
forward
“My men,” began the chief be-braided
figure in a voice that reminded Slap of
Noel Coward’s captain in “In Which We
Serve.”... .“On occasions such as this we
are proud to welcome you as our brothers
in arms” ...
Landy caught sight of the Second’s face.
In all the blues on board he had never
seen him look so angry. The men in the
boat moved restlessly. Runty, the A. 8.,
spat ostentatiously over the side.
“Today you have shown an initiative
which we . - .”
“Bull !” Slap's voice cut through
(he speech. There was a sickening silence.
“You and your zigging navy! We go
to the zigging war. We pay for the
zigging war. We fight the zigging war, and
you let us row home from the zigging war.
You can stick your zigging navy you know
where.”
The Steel Duke's official reception was
over.
Miss Cusack’s Steel Duke was hit
coming up the coast after having passed
Wollongong light (page 209); and it was
in a somewhat similar situation that, in
fact, the Iron Knight was put down by
a Japanese submarine.
But the Iron Knight was in convoy of
two corvettes. The crew were not left
(i Continued on page 35)


READING FROM RIGHT TO LEFT:
White Madras Centre with Green/Red, Green/White,
Green/Gold. All round frill, matching colour in a multi-
check voile. 4ft. 6in., 39/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Curtains of White Madras Centre and two centre rows
multi-check frilling. 4ft. 6in., 42/-; 6ft., 52/6.
Multi-check Voile and White Madras. Frilling. 4ft. 6in
42/-; 6ft., 52/6.
mr*
m-u
, M
■'< '
m
*1
:
m
tf
m
cinbr
m
m
WV'
m
M
&
m
p *
Xf
m
m
m
■>
m
%
i'®.
mk
mm
f.'J
fu A
4 I
1
1
5”
vi
»
w r
NT*
f*
V
1
rc-'
«
i
r
«
i
For Framing
vour of course you’ll want
in
WIN
V:;Sf
Designers and housewives in America have long known how window curtains can alter the
I
T*
a »
w
IJL
a
■ ■
CP
fb
■1
\‘l
it?
fr
L ~ /
personality of a room, enhance a view through a window. They value good-
looking curtains that will let the light into a room yet give complete
privacy. Frankly, we thought so much of these designs we copied
them! The colours, too. For colour matched properly is one of
the most important things in a curtain . . . matched so that it
won’t fade after a week! So why not inspect our wonderful range?
There’s a curtain here for every window in your home!
sS&UHSBB
SHOWER AND WINDOW CURTAINS THAT MATCH
Glamour in your bathroom! Hygienic plastic Shower and Crossover window
curtains in many colours and designs. They stay clean. No washing
is necessary. You simply rub them down and they’re cleaned!
X’Overs, 3fl. 6in., 33/6; 4ft. 6in., 37/6; 6ft., 47/6. Shower Curtains, 6ft. .x 3ft.,
16/3; 6ft. x 6ft., 32/6. Ruffles in plain, spotted or patterned
plastic, with toning ric rac trim. Rodless, these stretch to 5 yards. 32/6.
FURNISHING DEPARTMENT, 3RD FLOOR v BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


The Pacific Islands by Air-hops
Travel Not Tourism
By GEORGE CAIGER
Afrlm R piTSr n ih in f „ a r de c r
th ? S f ol ,°:
mon Islands I detected a twofold
distinction between travel and
tourism. The traveller collects his own
impressions, the tourist pants to catch
up with the impressions of others. Your
tourist will hardly venture beyond the
range of modern amenities, while the
rave er accepts such hotel accommoda-
non as is available, sometimes with a
grumble, sometimes with philosophical
gratitude. ...
axing this distinction as valid, this
f° o£ South-west Pacific is still a
Armory for traveUers rather than a
temptation to tourists.
The paradox is that an excellent net-
work of airlines can waft the traveller
to all the major, and many minor places
but the hotel accommodation’ rarelv
reaches the level expected bv air
travellers. It’s adequate, but the buildings
seem to have been erected by men who
missed their vocation as violin-makers.
To thoSe interested in acoustics, the
builders offer new effects in resonance
and reverberation. Partitions give privacy
as far as sight is concerned, but you can
still hear the guest in the next room
change his, or her, mind.
The builders of the hotel in Wau were
assisted in this acoustic competition by
the use of Bulolo pine throughout the
building. This gave them an advantage
over the users of fibro-cement in Lae and
s Rabaul.
Stays of one or two nights hardly give
the traveller a chance of working out
whether- the man with a cough like a
whinnying horse is sleeping on the far or
the near side of the man with the rasping
snore. The sporting element is doubled
by the local practice of putting complete
strangers to share rooms. It’s amazing
how smoothly this business of pegging
out a claim for space among someone
else’s clothes and toilet accessories works
on the whole.
In the Islands, the new arrival is ad-
mitted as a sort of honorary member to
a long-established club. Acquaintances
and even friends are made through
chance meetings and introductions.
Occasionally events link up.
In the Qantas Skymaster from Sydney
I had only seen the top of the head of a
gentleman in front of me. As I was
sitting fairly upright when he let down
his seat into a reclining position for the
night, this same head was thrust under
my nose. The next morning, in the
silence when the engines were switched
off after landing at Jackson Field, Port
Moresby, the same head produced a re-
mark which I noted as a commentary on
modern travel. An unmistakably Eng-
lish voice queried, “Do we shave here
or at Lae?”
Two weeks later I stepped down from
another plane on Yandina airstrip in the
Russell Islands, to be introduced to the
owner of the head and the voice! Before
the evening was over I was entranced
by his playing of the bagpipes as he
marched to and fro in (front of the
veranda. Who would dream of seeing
and hearing bagpipes being played
against a background of coconut-palms
in the Solomons, but such glorious un-
certainties are the very stuff of travel!
During a weekend at Wau my voc-
abulary was enriched by two words which
I was told meant “money”—“moola” and
“fiddle-de-dids.” These were the reasons
people came to Wau, I was informed. A
footloose young Canadian electrician,
characteristically dubbed “Texas” by his
Aussie cobbers, was led as far down the
garden-path as I have ever seen by the
casual remark, “You remind me of
George Washington, Texas.” “Oh,
why?” he asked innocently. “He knew
damn-all about electricity, too!” The
gales of laughter temporarily drowned
the strains of the harmonica.
Visitors to Rabaul have the choice of
two hotels, the Ascot and the Cosmo-
politan. In the former, I was awakened
from sleep one Saturday afternoon by
French being talked loudly and ener-
getically in the corridor. The visiting
mission the United Nations had
arrived. '"The Ascot had gone cosmopoli-
tan.
Many of the local residents, not stay-
ing in the hotel, remained unaware of
this transformation. That evening, a
group of men and women were sipping
drinks before dinner when one man com-
plained that he couldn’t get an engineer
to look after some of his plant. “Well,”
said another without any change of ex-
pression, “why don’t you ask that bunch
over there?” (nodding in the direction of
members of the U.N. mission, who were
having dinner). “There’s a ship in port
and there might be an engineer among
them.”
To the intense, but concealed, delight
of the rest of the party, the man got up,
walked over and in all good faith asked,
“Excuse me, any of you gentlemen look-
ing for a job?” They looked slightly
nonplussed, but one rallied sufficiently
to say, “Not exactly.”
An ingenious blend of travel and tour-
ism has been achieved by Captain and
Mrs. Johnston in their sailing schooner
The Yankee. Every three years they
assemble a paying crew of adventurous
young Americans, the cook being the
only paid member, and sail round the
world.
When in the Solomon Islands they
make a point of calling on Mr. ancLMrs
Palmer, who live with their six children
on The Ark. This is a quonset hut, at-
tractively painted and furnished, built on
a war-time pontoon which has been
drawn up on the coral beach of a tiny
island complete with whispering palms.
Two steps outside the front door tropical
fish, striped and banded, swim to and
fro in clear blue water. The servants,
from the outlying islands of Sikaiana and
Tikopia, have introduced the local custom
on festival occasions, such as the birth-
days and the New Year, of “ducking”
everyone. One of them seizes the “sub-
ject” by the waist and jumps into the
water —if it is a “her,” carefully bringing
her to the surface again. This is a mark
of admiration and respect! Some visitors
wear bathing costumes, but most people
are taken in clothes and all!
When you think of the millions of
people who, at one time or another,
have dreamed of living on a little island
in the South Pacific, it is delightful to
meet a family really enjoying such a life.
As another Islander said, with a wave of
the hand to the blue sky over the waters,
turquoise green above the coral-reefs,
purple in the deeper patches, dotted with
tree-clad islets, “You can have Sydney!”
Mention of Sydney reminds me of an
incident that occurred in Rabaul on April
2 at 2 p.m. Residents of Rabaul, like
those of San Francisco, accept their
“gurias,” or earthquake tremors, but
there has to be a first time.
A young member of a business firm
had previously arranged a long-distance
call to his father in Sydney. The youth
was alone in a cubicle, specially lined to
deaden sound, but as he was about to
speak everything swayed and moved.
The conversation went on these lines:
“How are you, son?”
“I feel very queer. That is, I’m all
right, but something’s the matter.”
“What’s the matter?”
“I don’t know.”
“Aren’t you well?”
“Yes . . . that is no . . . Oh, I’m all
right, now, father.”
Uncertain whether his heart was play-
ing tricks or not, he came out of the
booth to learn he had experienced his
first earthquake! It was an expensive
and unsatisfactory talk.
Up in the Central Highlands of New
Guinea the natives love having their
photographs taken. At the glimpse of a
camera, they freeze into the stiff and un-
natural poses one is anxious to avoid.
One man’s almost Red Indian headdress
of tarabu shells and feathers caught my
eye. After I had photographed him he
put out his hand for a handshake.
This reminded my host of another
visitor from the mainland, whose feelings
towards the natives were paternal rather
than fraternal. He could not bring him-
self to shake hands with them. He was
taken out to a “sing-sing.” To avoid
giving offence, he had a lighted cigar-
ette between his fingers and handed it
over instead of shaking hands. Whether
they gathered the cause or not was un-
known, but the effect was appreciated.
I believe the evening cost him over 100
cigarettes!
These human happenings are remem-
bered against a background of majestic
natural scenes: white cloud at 10,000 ft.
cutting off the tops of mountains: storms
filling valleys with darkness and curtains
of rain: kunai-grass unbelievably green
and gold in the rays of the setting sun:
the towering ranges of the Bismarcks
falling 8000 ft. sheer to the flat Ramu
Valley: the width of the Fly River, sixty-
five miles across the mouth: Lake
Kutubu, twelve miles of amethyst water
edged with turquoise.
But the main impression of this
traveller was the endless coming and
going of natives, walking easily and
cheerfully at the sides of the roads, many
with a hibiscus flower in the hair and
gaily-colpred waist-cloth. Three were
carrying bows and arrows.
Question-time
AT this season of the year, when
everyone is in the throes, it
seemed only right that before
completing my income-tax
return I should clear up any possible
misunderstandings.
It would not be fair to the nation
to contribute to any delays by care-
less filling-in ; besides, if my return
were returned for the supply of vital
information that I had missed my
rebate would be delayed. So I went
along to see them.
The fellow at the inquiry-counter
was most polite. What could he do
for me?
“Well,” I began. “There are just
a few items in this Form S I’d like
to have made clear. For instance, it
mentions in Statement One here that
I can claim a concessional allowance
for a housekeeper.”
“That is so. One hundred and
four pounds if she has been wholly
maintained by you during the year.
Has she?” *
“Oh, yes.”
“Then you can make the claim.”
“But she is—or was—a relative of
mine.”
“It doesn’t make any difference,”
“I then can claim separately for
a housekeeper?” I asked.
“Yes.”
“That’s good-oh,” I said. “I must
say that’s handsome of the depart-
ment. That’s one hundred and four
quid for the housekeeper and one
hundred and four for the wife,”
“Hold hard,” he said. “You didn’t
say you had a wife.”
“Oh, I don’t go around skiting
about it,” I said.
“Well, you can’t get it for both,”
was his caustic reply.
“Now, listen,” I said. “Make up
your mind. You said I could get it
for my housekeeper. / know I can
get it for my wife. Well, she keeps
house for me, and if that’s not being
a housekeeper, I don’t know what
is.”
“Now, look,” he gritted, “I’ve got
no time to waste. You can only get
an allowance for either a housekeeper
or a wife.”
“Well, why didn’t yoq say so in
the first place?” I demanded. “Any-
way, my wife was my housekeeper
—has been for years. I married her
last August.”
“Well, that’s different,” he said.
“You’ll be able to claim part of the
year as housekeeper and the other
part as wife.”
“But we were divorced last month,”
I said.
He took a fistful of his hair.
“Now” he began.
“But forget her for the time,” I
went on. “What about the nine
children?”
“Oh, by a former marriage? If
they are”
“No, by this one,” I said.
He looked at me hard. “You can
claim allowances for them all if they
were all maintained by you during
the income-tax year,” he said, “and
if they are under sixteen.”
“Well, it’s this way,” I explained,
“Judith —she’s the baby—has been
with her Aunt Ettie since about
November. Billy and Joe spend a
fortnight alternately with me and
their grandmother; Deirdre, Arthur
and Wally have been up on Uncle
Percy’s farm since Christmas, with
the exception of a fortnight back with
me when they had to have their
tonsils out. Herby and Kathy—
they’re fourteen—do part-time work,
and Montmorency—he’s the eldest,
fifteen—earns sixteen quid a week,
from which he makes me an allow-
ance of three quid. He’s on a milk-
cart in the morning, a baker’s-cart
in the day and he has a paper-run late
in the afternoon. Will I have to show
the three quid in my return?”
The inquiry-clerk took another
fistful of hair and he seemed to be
gurgling in the back of his throat.
“Another thing,” I went on, “if
Montmorency has to put in a tax-
return —and if a child has to I think
it is a disgrace to the country —can
he claim a concessional deduction
for partly supporting me?”
“Now, look” he shouted.
I held up a hand. “There’s no
need to get off your bike,” I adjured
him sternly. “After all, I am entitled
to a civil answer to a legitimate
question.”
“Well,” he replied bitterly, “it’s at
least refreshing to know that your
questions are legitimate.”
“That’s enough from you,” I re-
joined. “Now, how do I get on
about the wife’s rebate —she earned
two quid a week?”
“That’s a hundred and four a year
—it wipes the allowance out.”
“That’s pretty hot!” I protested.
“Just because I make her a small
allowance for pin-money!”
“You said she earned it,” he
snapped.
“Well, I think you’ll agree,” I
said, “that any woman who cooks,
sews, mends and does other house-
hold chores for eleven people does
earn it if she gets two quid a week
to spend.”
I could tell by the working of his
jaw-muscles that he was savagely
grinding his teeth.
“Oh, another thing here,” I went
on, pointing to the form, “I have
no wish to dish the department out
of any revenue ; that’s why I’m telling
you this. I got travelling and enter-
tainment allowances during the year.
Do I have to show them?”
He stabbed his finger bad-
temperedly at the paper. “Can’t you
read?” he said fiercely. “You’ll have
to show it in this first column under
Item Three.”
“Well, if you say. I didn’t think
it was worth while myself. Just the
five-bob for bus fares and five-bob
beer-money Maggie allowed me every
week.”
He seemed to be casting around
desperately for an escape-channel.
“Just one last question,” I said
hurriedly. “My employer’s industry.”
“What do you do?” he barked.
“I’m a crumpet-shaper,” I replied.
“Put pastrycook, then.”
“No good—he only makes crum-
pets, and they’re not classified as
pastry.”
“Baker, then.”
“Couldn’t. He doesn’t bake—he
steams ’em.”
“Well, put any damn’ thing you
like,” he shouted, and abruptly left
me.
Very rude, I thought. But, then,
whoever expects to be attended to
by a civil civil servant?
Bo.
"THE PERFECT FLUKE"
By J.B. BLAIR
A golfing story which will cause
consternation at many a Nine-
teenth Hole: for no round has
ever been composed of so many
good lies as this.
In next week's “Bulletin”
story batch


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 15, 1952
Vol. 74—No. 3831
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
DOES 'LABOR' WANT ARBITRATION?
The “Labor” party believes in industrial arbitration.
We have its word for that, written in its constitution
and proclaimed by its leaders from a thousand
platforms. Mr. Chifley, when Prime Minister, said:
The determination of Industrial disputes by arbi-
tration has, I am sure, the support of the very great
majority of the Australian public, the support of the
Commonwealth Farliament, and certainly the com-
plete support of the Labor Governments, who have
made settlement of disputes in this manner a funda-
mental principle of their platform. •
Dr. Evatt has been no less explicit on the subject, and,
although some of the rank-and-file of the party’s
Federal members and Senators have at times made
attacks on the system, it is safe to say that if you were
to take a representative gathering of “Labor” poli-
ticians, select one at random, poke him in the ribs and
ask his views on the matter, in ninety-nine cases out
of a hundred he would vow that he believed in arbi-
tration. No doubt he would qualify it by saying that,
mind you, he yielded to no one in maintaining the
right to strike, but that is merely an example of the
inconsequential logic that often makes one feel that
the “Labor” party is at heart essentially feminine.
The A.L.P. executives. Federal and State, are
strong in their claims to be supporters of arbitration ;
so are the A.C.T.U. and most of the capital-city Trades
and Labor Councils. In short, the “Labor” move-
ment, from top to bottom, from stem to stern, heartily,
wholly and completely subscribes to the principle of
arbitration.
Principle, of course, is not always quite the same
thing as practice, and every now and then “Labor’s”
practice in relation to arbitration calls to mind the
Irishman who was neutral, but was more neutral
against one side than the other. In “Labor’s” case it
is a matter of believing wholeheartedly in arbitration
when the system works to the benefit of “Labor’s”
supporters, and recognising that the system has “weak-
nesses” when the decision goes, or looks like going,
the other way.
The industrial side of the “Labor” movement
shows several current examples of this. In the coal
industry the John Darling mine dispute, just ended at a
cost of 500,000 tons of lost,production and after the
miners themselves had lost £500,000 in wages, was
an outright defiance of arbitration; and during the
course of the dispute the miners’ official newspaper
made scurrilous attacks on the integrity of the Coal
Industry Tribunal, Mr. Gallagher. These attacks
were followed up, after the tribunal had given his
decision, by an insulting statement by the Communist
president of the Miners’ Federation, which was sub-
sequently endorsed by the Miners’ Central Council,
on which A.L.P. supporters claim to have a majority.
Arbitration, it seems, must give every decision in favor
of “Labor” ; otherwise it stands condemned.
Two other powerful unions are at present defying
the arbitration system. The Arbitration Court has
ordered court-conducted ballots for the election of
officers in the Amalgamated Postal Workers’ Union
and the Amalgamated Engineering Union. The
response of the Postal Workers has been to allege all
sorts of irregularities against the court-ballots, and the
A.E.U, has come out in open opposition to the order —
its Commonwealth council has instructed its officials
to refuse to give the court information necessary for
the conduct of the ballot.
For staunch believers in arbitration the political
leaders of the A.L.P. have been strangely silent on
these matters. In the case of one group of leaders —
the body of democrats comprising the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government —the silence is perhaps not so
strange when it is remembered that they have been
rather active themselves in recent weeks in under-
mining the authority of the arbitration system.
Acting-Premier Heffron’s promise to the A.L.P.
conference that he would introduce compulsory
unionism during the coming session of Parliament
indicated an intention to bypass the Arbitration
Court, and although there now seems to be consider-
able doubt whether anything will come of this, it
appears that factors other than a regard for arbitra-
tion are responsible for the marking-time. A regard
for arbitration was distinctly lacking when the Heffron
Cabinet last week forbade Railways Commissioner
Winsor to proceed with his application to the court for
a reduction in weekend penalty-rates for railwaymen,
although Mr. Winsor explained that his application
was a counter-log to union claims for marginal
SATELLITES
increases. Similar action was taken by the Victorian
“Labor” Government.
Apparently “Labor” Governments have such a
high regard for the principle of arbitration that they
feel the court should only be asked to decide on
increases. Possibly they feel that to be asked to discuss
a possible reduction might prove embarrassing to the
court —or could it be that there is a fear the court’s
decision might be embarrassing to the Government?
July Budgets Needed
The agitation about the contents of the 1953-54 Com-
monwealth Budget advertises the need for reform in
Government fiscal methods.
Treasurer Fadden is justified in deploring the
speculation, the guesswork and the attempts to exercise
undue influence through public opinion on the
incidence of next year’s taxation ; but the propaganda
and its results are inescapable, Australian pressure-
groups and the Press being what they are and the
timing of the Budget being what it is.
The Cabinet, according to Fadden, has not as
yet “even touched the Budget,” and will not begin to
consider taxation till the end of the month. Budget
month will be September. There can be no surprise
that when the commercial community is compelled to
wait for months after the beginning of each new
financial year to discover what burdens it will have
to bear in that year, everybody interested, from
crystal-gazers to water-diviners, get to work to discover
what the intentions of the Treasuiy are ; also, whether
they cannot be moulded to the hearts’ desires of a
thousand conflicting interests, each of which believes
that it can run the financial affairs of the country
more in its own interest than responsible Ministers.
Irt the halcyon days when the Commonwealth
collected only a few millions of revenue and the States
were reckoned extravagant if their overall expenditures
exceeded four or five pounds a head, the Budget had
little relationship to business at large or to overall
prosperity. But in these post-war years of qualified—
and not-much-qualified—Socialism, the relationship of
business and public finance is as intimate as that
between a nearly-drowning swimmer and the octopus
which has him firmly clutched round the neck. To
the business community the size and strangling-power
of the cephalopod with which it will have to cope is
a matter of mortal and urgent importance in the
planning of each year’s operations. The load of
financial imposts has become so large that even in the
best of times there is little difference between sink
and swim for some of those who have to bear it. And
to have to take it on in September or October, two
or three months after the financial year begins, and,
revise plans and adjust bookkeeping operations to its
retrospective provisions can be almost a lethal task.
Australia is the only country in the British Com-
monwealth in which the public financial year ends at
the same time as the normal business year. It is also
the only country except New Zealand in which the
Government is not able at the end of the financial
year to bring down its Budget instantly and allow
private finance to get off to a fair start. Britain,
Canada, S. Africa and New Zealand all budget on a
year ending on March 31. Except for New Zealand,
which normally presents its Budget towards the end
of the ordinary year, the practice is to read the Budget-
speech within a few days after accounts are closed.
In the United Kingdom this year the Budget was
abnormally late when it was brought down on April
14. In Canada it is introduced mostly within 10 davs
of the end of the financial year —in S. Africa the
position is much the same, but its direct taxes are levied
as from July 1-June 30. In Australia the rule seems to
be that, except by accident, it does not come down
until two or three months after June 30, and then only
after a period of unavoidable leakage, wild argument
and sometimes all-too-accurate but unconfirmable
prediction.
If a country like the United Kingdom, with its
world-wide problems, its colonial commitments and its
intricate markets dependent on export, and consump-
tion dependent on import and world prices, can budget
within a week or so of the end of each year, there
should be no difficulty in doing the same in Australia.
It is always possible before June 30 to forecast the
results of the year past with near exactitude, and if it
cannot be done nearly enough for budgeting the Gov-
ernment should find out why the position is different
in this respect from that in other countries.
Cynics might advance the justification for defer-
ring the introduction of the year’s financial measures
till the spring that Federal politicians do not like Can-
berra in winter; but it would be difficult to think of
any other.
The whole Budget system seems to be due for an
overhaul, together with the method of the presenta-
tion of accounts and estimates to the public. In West-
minster they do these things very much better, and
the story is told in more popular fashion and with less
accountant’s jargon that here, so that the ordinary man
can understand what is being done, what his liability
is likely to be and how it affects him generally.
Sir Arthur Fadden appointed a business-like com-
mittee at the beginning of his term of office to go into
the question of income-taxation and its principles and
the relationships of the department with the public.
The results have been seen in the introduction of a
simplified self-assessment form on United Spates lines
which has saved millions of headaches and speeded up
both collection and rebates of tax, apart from saving
square miles of paper. The Treasurer might go a
stage further and appoint a committee of businessmen
to do the same sort of thing with the Budget system
and timing so that public and private finance may
operate in tune.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Bluebeard's Latest Wife
It is easy to overestimate the importance
of what has happened to Comrade
Lavrenti Beria, proclaimed by the Press
as “one of the three men who have ruled
Russia since Mr. Stalin died in March.”
The fact is that Comrade Beria has
merely gone the way of all past Ministers
for Security in the U.S.S.R.
The holder of that office is always more
prominent than his importance justifies.
He naturally lives very close to the heads
of the Kremlin because the heads of the
Kremlin value their own lives, and regard
the job of protecting them as a first
priority. But it is also Soviet policy not
to allow heads of Security to sit near
the throne long enough to have ambitions.
And therefore they inevitably find them-
selves one day in a cell in the Lubianka.
Since humanity lives on hope, every
successor in the line of Russian Ministers
of the Interior naturally feels competent
to'avoid the pitfalls of the man who
went before, and whom he has invariably
blotted out as his first official act. But
none of them has yet proved a Schehera-
zade with a recipe for survival. Beria
has merely gone the way of the others,
the .essence of his crime being explained
in the words of “Pravda” —“having be-
come arrogant, Beria began to show his
real face —the face of the wicked enemy
of the party and the Soviet peoples.” The
accent is on the word “arrogant.”
As usual in these cases, the Army,
always jealous of the private forces of
the M.V.D., N.K.V.D., GPU. or
0.G.P.U., and eager to take a rise out
of the latter, has been used to effect the
purge, and the head of its M.V.D.
department. Colonel - General Sergei
Kruglov, enters the Ministry in Beria’s
place—that “foul enemy of the party
and the Soviet peoples—that international
imperialist agent.” The only significance
about the appointment is that it is the
first time it has been held by a soldier.
Beria is a Georgian. He has been
associated with the security service since
1921, and was for long in charge of the
Caucasian area. He entered the Central
Committee of the Communist Party of
Russia in 1934 under Stalin’s wing, and
was- one of the three (with Voroshilov and
Kaganovich) who had the courage to
urge on Stalin the abandonment of
Yezhov’s purge of 1938 —in which the
previous Minister, Yagoda, was executed
on the same sort of charges as those
now aimed at Beria. The latter was
appointed head of the N.K.V.D. in
December that year, and Yezhov quietly
disappeared.
The new head set to work to purge
all the other purgers, and, as has been
done in the past few months, again to
reinstate a lot of people who had been
purged but who were still lucky enough
to be alive. His main job during the
succeeding years was to assemble the
huge slave-camp forces of prisoners who
were used to build Russia’s canals,
powerhouses and munition industry and,
when war broke out, he was made a
member of a five-man War Cabinet, his
function in war being the same as in
peace—to provide slave-labor. But he
has never been part of the real brain
of Russia.
It is to be hoped he has been provided
with a copy of the speech which he
delivered at Stalin’s funeral in March
to muse over, with its tribute to Malen-
kov as “the talented puppil of Lenin
and loyal colleague of Stalin,” and its
meditations on “the disappointment in
store for those enemies” who hoped for
“confusion and disconcertment in our
ranks.” Absolutely solid and united be-
hind Malenkov he declared his comrades
to be.
It might comfort him when he stands
abjectly in the dock presently, probably
reciting like a man in a dream a long
confession about his plans for the over-
throw of Communism and of spying for
the U.S.A.
Transport SeJI-out
It went without saying that N. S. Wales
Cabinet would veto the attempt of its
Railway Commissioner, Mr. Reg Winsor,
to use the Arbitration Court to deal with
railway employees who are alleged to be
blackmailing unfair penalty-rates out of
the taxpayers by the use of union
pressure. •
Mr. Winsor was fully justified in ask-
ing the court whether the present penalty-
rate system, costing the State £1,500,000 a
year more than necessary if his own
estimate is accurate, is a fair thing to the
community. But the A.R.U. and the
Labor Council obviously know that it is
not a fair thing; hence their reluctance
to have the matter reviewed by an
independent tribunal.
Instances galore have been put
forward in the Press in the past few days
—-an engine-driver who, while he actually
had time off during a given fortnight,
worked sufficient overtime to pocket £B4
at the end of it. Other cases in which
workers have been absent for portion of
a week and have then earned the
customary penalty-rates at the weekend.
If all that is said about the system is true,
it is a crying scandal. If it isn’t true, the
matter certainly should have gone before
the court to bring the evidence into the
open and clear the name of the depart-
ment and the Government. But the
Cabinet obviously does not care whether
there is a scandal, or whether its
employees are being maligned.
Characteristically, Acting - Premier
Heffron refused to make any statement
after the 2-|-hour Cabinet-meeting,
leaving it to Mr. Martin, Transport
Minister, to do the talking. Mr. Martin,
it seemed, had completely deserted his
official. He opened the Cabinet discus-
sion by averring that the Government
should not be made the spearhead of
any application for a reduction of wages
and for lowering of working conditions” ;
that such an application as was put
forward would be “contrary to Labor
principles,” and that “the Labor Council
and the A.R.U. had stated their uncom-
promising opposition to any move calcu-
lated to reduce penalty-rates.
In other words, all his arguments to
that point were to the effect that pressure,
not economy, should decide the issue.
He added that “private industry has
not made any move to reduce penalty-
rates, so why should the Government
show the way?” He failed to add that
private industry was not generally stone
bankrupt like the N. S. Wales Transport
Departments, or that private industry was
not necessarily obliged to provide ser-
vices at weekends.
His basic argument was that though
there was no other economy which
would save the £1,500,000 which Mr.
Winsor sought to save by his move, his
plan would have lost the party “a fortune
in goodwill.” Goodwill, irrespective of
whether the country goes to the dogs or
not, is what the Cahill Ministry is pre-
pared to buy till the cows come home.
If Mr. Winsor feels chagrined, he may
find it consoling that history has repeated
itself in Victoria, where the commissioners
have been hurriedly instructed by the
“Labor” Government to abandon a plan
similar to his own.
It is quite clear that the “Labor”-run
A.R.U. can do what it likes. When its
Communist policies are in question, as
Mr. W. A. Howarth, acting-Leader of the
N. S. Wales Opposition has remarked, the
profession of “Labor” that it stands for
arbitration is “utterly worthless.”
"WfiofSy Unnecessary 11
The rolling-strikes which had been caus-
ing loss of production and wages on the
northern coalfields of N. S. Wales rolled
to a finish last week when work was
resumed at the John Darling mine, the
site of the original dispute. The stop-
page began towards the end of March as
a protest against the dismissal of a union
official who had countermanded the
orders of a mine-deputy. When the
Local Coal Authority upheld the dis-
missal men at the John Darling mine
went on strike, and there were “sym-
pathy” stoppages in other pits. Coal-
owners appealed to Mr. Gallagher, the
Coal Industry Tribunal, who was en-
gaged at the time hearing the miners’
log of claims for a new award, to sus-
pend the hearing until the men resumed
work. Mr. Gallagher granted the appli-
cation, whereupon further stoppages
occurred. At the request of the Joint
Coal Board chairman, Mr. Gallagher
called a compulsory conference; later
he began an open inquiry into the whole
dispute. “Rplling”-strikes continued,
and the miners’ newspaper, “Common
Cause,” savagely attacked the tribunal.
At the end of June Mr. Gallagher
delivered his judgment. He found that
there had been proper grounds for the
dismissal of Steers (the miner involved);
that he had not been dismissed because
of his legitimate union activities but
“because of his association with a plan
to keep down production.” He con-
sidered that the sympathy strikes were
“wholly unnecessary and should not have
taken place,” and that the miners had
been misled “through the suppression of
facts and through the publication in the
‘Common Cause’ newspaper of false
and. inaccurate statements, a distorted
account of evidence at the inquiry and
inflammatory propaganda.”
Idris Williams, Communist president
of the Miners’ Federation, described the
judgment as “amazing,” and the Miners’
Central Council, allegedly under “moder-
ate” control, said:
The judgment is open to only one inter-
pretation—that the tribunal has become
part of the current attack on trade-union
rights and mineworkers’ conditions, yon-
firming the correctness of the Federation’s
warning to members that it is fatal to
rely on arbitration, and that they should
depend only upon their own industrial
capacity, using collective bargaining and
industrial activity as methods, to hold
and improve their conditions.
It would seem nearer to the truth to
say that the lesson to be learnt was that
there is nothing to be gained by foolish
and misguided strike-action —work has
been resumed at the John Darling mine
on terms offered by the owners soon after
the trouble began.
Mosquitoes Earn £5O Million
Myxomatosis, in the short space of three
years, has become one of the most signifi-
cant words in the Australian economy.
It is the scientific name for a virus
disease that has decimated the rabbit pest
and in the past season alone has directly
increased the national income from land
production by at least £5O million. If
it never achieved anything else, this one
achievement justifies the C.5.1.R.0.
Many, and particularly those who had
seen parts of the Australian landscape
literally alive with rabbits, who had seen
a hundred acres of young wheat eaten
out in a night, a thousand acres of pasture
in a week, whole districts ruined by
rabbits in a season, who had seen hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds vainly
spent in netting, digging-out, poisoning,
fumigating and trapping, doubted if the
C.5.1.R.0. could succeed.
The very idea itself was fantastic —as
fantastic as the almost-forgotten French-
man, Rodier, who proposed to kill off
all the does by some means or other,
leaving the bucks to die of celibacy and
old age. The C.5.1.R.0., having satisfied
itself that myxo. was lethal only to
rabbits, that mosquitoes fed on rabbits,
and that a mosquito which bit an infected
rabbit would then go and bite another
rabbit and infect it (though it could
bite a man or a dog or a frill-neck lizard
or other non-rabbit forms of life without
infection), let loose a few infected rabbits
among the Murray mosquitoes below
Echuca and, fully aware of the cynical
grins in the vicinity, awaited results.
Results appeared. ' They probably
astonished the C.5.1.R.0. as much as
anybody. They are even more fantastic
than the idea. Speaking quite soberly,
the director of the C.5.1.R.0. told a
Melbourne conference that in the three
years since the work began the rabbit-
population has been reduced by four-
fifths. The remaining fifth is pretty rocky.
Others at the conference said it was
hard to find a part of the eastern States
where myxo. hadn’t penetrated, that the
Darling country was practically devoid
of rabbits, that rabbit numbers in Vic-
toria had been reduced 80 p.c., and in
Queensland and N. S. Wales up to 90 p.c.
The scientists’ work doesn’t stop there.
Strains of the virus have to be kept up,
the problem of rabbit resistance or im-
munity must be watched, as must other
factors. Nor can landholders and agri-
cultural and rural authorities sit back.
The importance of myxo. lies not in its
selection and killing of rabbits, but in
preventing them from breeding. So the
few that escape myxo. must be ruthlessly
hunted down and destroyed. Any relaxa-
tion of vigilance in this regard would
now be criminal.
Meantime, it is a sobering thought that
the dashed mosquito has become a
national benefactor, and anybody turn-
ing up in rabbit-cleared district with a
plan for mosquito-elimination runs a
risk of being shot on sight.
Not Dead—Just Hibernating
Those complacent people who believed
the Communist party dead are beginning
to realise their error. The party has
completely reorganised itself to combat
the arbitration legislation perfected by
the Menzies Government to oust it from
the unions. It has plenty of funds. Its
propaganda organisation is larger than
ever before. And it has obviously
reached the point at which it is prepared
to challenge the law on the question of
ballots.
Last week the Commonwealth council
of the A.E.U., whose chairman comes up
for election next September, along with
a councillor, used its two-to-one Left-
wing majority to refuse to hand over the
information needed by the Common-
wealth Electoral Registrar to hold the
ballot. A ballot had been asked for by a
requisite proportion of members.
The council called a stop-work meet-
ing of its 76,000 members on July 8 at
which stock resolutions in the usual Com-
munist jargon were adopted, sometimes
by very thin gatherings, approving the
resistance of the council. There were a
few protest-meetings organised by indus-
trial-groupers. In Newcastle 785 out of
3000 members turned up at the official
meeting, and the council’s viewpoint was
rejected by one vote.
The Commonwealth Government is
now faced with the need to take a firm
stand on the matter, and it will be interest-
ing to support it receives from
the A.L.P.* political leaders, and particu-
larly those who have been preening them-
selves to the industrial-groups that it
was their legislation which made Peking
a safer home for Mr. Thornton than
Sydney, but who at the same time have
been making it clear to the Left wing
that they have had nothing to do with
this kind of tyranny, which was wholly
invented by the Australian Hitler,
Menzies.
The issue will certainly have to be
faced before long by the A.L.P. Mean-
while the Communist party has its
organisation ready to fight. A vigorous
campaign is being conducted to defeat
the purposes of the Postal Union ballot
through charges of irregularity in signa-
tures to the petition, and by a counter-
petition which was rejected by the
Registrar after over 1000 members had
asked for an officially-conducted ballot.
In Adelaide the Shop Assistants’
Union, or at least a packed meeting of its
members, was induced to reject the report
of the returning-officer under a court-
conducted ballof. . *
It is obvious that the Government is
. about to face a pretty powerful challenge
along lines which seem to be drawn by
the Communist party, whose survival as
an industrial organ will soon be at stake.
A Letter From Cairns
Indignant at what it terms the “unjust
and unwarranted criticism of the Port of
Cairns” in the Stevedoring Industry
Board’s 1952 report, Cairns Harbor
Board has written to Labor and National
Service Minister Holt in the following
terms:
The 5.1.8. report implies that Cairns
has “exceeded the limits of its
capacity” as a sugar port and suggests
it should be denied half of its present
sugar trade, when in reality its storage-
capacity at the wharves is more than
double the sugar accommodated there in
recent veins. There has been no shipping
congestion at Cairns.
The port’s achievements have been
praised by overseas shipping interests and
have not been bettered by any other
Australian sugar poprt. Cairns contri-
buted heavily to the war effort as a
port, when the American Forces “ex-
ploited to great advantage” its modem
facilities, including “comprehensive
mechanical sugar-handling equipment,”
which can load 80 to 90 tons an hour
into shed or ship.
The Cairns board asks Mr. Holt why
the 5.1.8. intruded into a State sphere
when it “sets itself up as a judge on the
question of the ports’ policy for Queens-
land for the handling of raw sugar.” It
states that the 5.1.8. criticism of the port
is “contrary to fact,” complains that the •
criticism has damaged the prestige of
the port, asks for “some tangible recti-
fication” of the damage, and says copies
of its letter have been sent to the Prime
Minister and to all Queensland members
in both Houses of the Canberra Parlia-
ment.
The next move seems to be up to Mr.
Holt, when available.
Northern Pipe-dream
An old pipe-dream has been revived by
the Australian Meat Council to revolu-
tionise the meat industry of the north
and of Australia in general.
The plan is to extend the Queensland
south-western railway from Quilpie to
Eromanga, on the Cooper, and the
Central District line from Yaraka, the
present terminus, to Windorah. From
Bourke (N.S.W.) it is then proposed to
build a line via these two new termini
through Boulia, Dajarra (the present
western terminus of the line to Towns-
ville! and then across the Barkly Table-
land via the Rankine to Newcastle
Waters and Birdum, the terminus, of the
line from Darwin.
First priority is given to the section
from Dajarra to the Rankine, which
would serve Brunette, Alexandria, Avon,
Rockhampton Downs, Alroy and other
stations. The cost is put down at be-
tween £5 million and £7 million. The
(Continued on page 7)


country is mostly us level as your hand,
and with modern appliances it could' be
run through in next to no time.
It would be a good investment even at
the enormous price. These stations are
picked country, susceptible to great
improvement through planting, develop-
ment of water-supply and trace-elements.
They do not contain fattening country,
and this railway is approved by every-
body in the north-west as something
vital, particularly since it goes through
the approaches of the Macarthur-river
country, and would provide the easiest
access to that great coastal mineral and
grazing belt along the Gulf.
Before the Commonwealth Govern-
ment really begins work on the rest, it
should have a look at the figures of the
existing Central Queensland lines which
run into the interior —lines which serve
tens of thousands of square miles of the
richest sheep and cattle country in Aus-
tralia. These 1300 miles of railway, in-
cluding that to Yaraka, which is to be
extended, cost £6,193,000 to build origin-
ally, against the £5-£7 million which it
is estimated that the very easy
line will cost, to run into the Barkly.
The revenue on the sections west from
Emerald to Winton-Yaraka increased
from £409,537 to £947,000 between
1947-48 and 1951-52; the expenditure
from £523,105 to £1,356,654; the loss
from £113,000 to £409,000. The per-
centage of expenses to earnings last year
was 143.18.
This covers about 600 miles of line.
It needs only to be added that
the final 80 miles of the line to Yaraka,
which it is proposed to extend, and which
goes through far better and better-
populated country than most of that
which it is proposed to build from
Bourke to the Barkly, carried last year
only an average of 150 livestock, sheep
and cattle a day, and about 15 tons
of goods a day. It recorded only 442
passenger journeys among its eight
stations, yielding total fares for the year
just over £9OO. The parcels and miscel-
laneous trade on that 80 miles of line
brought in £93.
The linkage of the line from Birdum
to Bourke as a whole is scarcely practical
politics in the present state of costs. A
local killing scheme for Northern ports
would be better.
POLITICAL POINTS
Russian roulette seems to be a dan-
gerous game.
« •
Cahill’s homeward trek from the
Coronation was to have been a leisurely
one, but now there’s talk of his return
by the end of the month —and by air.
What with compulsory unionism, Winsqr-
control and Evatt minor’s feud with his
Housing Commission, Cahill’s Cabinet
seems to have been cooking-up quite a
nice little dish for his welcome-home
dinner.
• •
On Sunday the N. S. Wales Railways
department organised a hiking tour
“through the abandoned Zig-Zag railway
in the Blue Mountains.” Was this a hint
of the shape of things to come?
• •
The drop in the number of persons on
unemployment-benefit continues ; Social
Services Minister Townley has just re-
ported a reduction of 1000 in the last
fortnight. It is significant that several
weeks have passed since any “Labor”
leader raised the cry of unemployment.
Can it be that their “unemployment-pool”
was only a muddy mirage after all?
• •
Are you on gas or all-electric? is a
question of more than ordinary interest
in Sydney at present. On July 1 the
Australian Gas Light Company reduced
its rates by 3 p.c. On July 8 the N. S.
Wales Electricity Commission increased
its charges for bulk electricity by 11 p.c.,
which may mean a rise of anything up to
22 p.c. by the time the cost is passed on
to the domestic consumer. Gas-produc-
tion, though strictly regulated by Act of
Parliament, is still in the hands of private
enterprise; electricity, since the creation
of the commission, is a Government
monopoly. But, of course, that couldn’t
account for the strange anomaly.
» •
Losses on the Commonwealth-run
brickworks at Canberra, as revealed by
the Public Accounts Inquiry Committee,
show that socialised industries won’t
work, whether run by Liberal or any
other kind of party Government.
• ©
South Africa’s Dr. Malan is a complex
character. The popular conception is
that he is the compleat England-hater,
whose greatest ambition is to cut the
painter. Last week, however, he told the
Union Parliament (1) that South Africa
could become a republic only through
the overwhelming vote of the people and
not through a mere vote in Parliament;
(2) it was senseless to think the country
could have greater freedom outside the
Commonwealth than within it; (3) that
his Government had no intention of test-
ing public opinion on the subject in the
near future.
Malan, at a luncheon to Menzies,
spoke of the kindred interests of the two
Dominions which face each other across
the Indian Ocean, and said that if danger
ever threatened Australia from that area,
Menzies could “depend upon it that we
will be Australia’s friend.” The assur-
ance would have been welcome had it
been expressed in general terms. Un-
fortunately it was so worded as to look
very much like an attempt to line Aus-
tralia up with Malan in the South Africa-
India feud.
• •
Brisbane Trades and Labor Council
recently held a picnic to which a num-
ber of migrants and their children were
invited. The newcomers were a trifle
disgusted when the gathering was called
upon to observe two-minutes silence as
a mark of respect for the Rosenbergs.
If the Brisbane Comrades were really
interested in the welfare of the workers
of the world instead of in the triumph
of the Kremlin oligarchy, the tribute
would more fittingly have been paid to
those killed in the East Berlin riots.
• •
The problem of office space in Sydney
is expected to ease considerably when
the railway administrative staff is trans-
ferred from its present Wynyard-square
building to the Trades Hall.
Trade-union organisations in Russia
are reported to be holding meetings
unanimously endorsing the dismissal of
Beria by Malenkov, and no doubt Com-
munist papers in Australia will endorse
it, too, in their next issue. The same
unanimity would have been forthcoming
had Beria dismissed Malenkov. In
faction-fights it’s a Communist rule that
the winner is always right.
• •
There were no shocks in the Malvern
(Vic.) by-election, L.-C.P. candidate J.
S. Bloomfield winning his late leader’s
seat with plenty to spare; Hollway
Liberal Dawnay-Mould was runner-up.
Scores: Bloomfield, 8905; Dawnay-
Mould, 4056; Birdley (Ind. Labor),
2832; Mrs. Brown (Ind. Lib.), 2228.
Bloomfield was thus a couple of hundred
votes short of an absolute majority and
needed only a handful of preferences
to clinch his win.
• •
When Churchill’s Conservatives stated
their policy on housing before the 1951
election they promised to- raise produc-
tion of new houses to 300,000 a year. This
rate has now been achieved. There’s no
report of any congratulations being sent
by the N. S. Wales Housing Minister,
ds
DARK HOUR BEFORE DAWN
Only last February Premier Cahill
vowed he would make housing a No. 1
priority if returned to power. Returned
he was, with a record majority. Latest
estimate of homes to be built by the
N. S. Wales Housing Commission for
the coming six months is well short of a
thousand, and there’s a recommendation
from caucus that the building of brick
homes be abandoned altogether, the
commission to concentrate on fibro and
timber-framed houses and prefabs.
• •
Abe Landa hasn’t yet reported on com-
pulsory unionism in Queensland and
New Zealand. Is it Cahill or Dr. Evatt
they’re waiting for?
• •
First prize of a Soviet goldmine is
awarded to the Communist-party official
organ, the “Tribune,” for the funniest
paragraph of the decade —if it is pre-
pared to send a delegate to read it in
Red Square:
The Communist party has always fought
for 100 per cent, unionism—but compul-
sion on workers to join a union must be
imposed by the workers themselves and not
by order of the State machine.
It thinks that “the compulsory unionism
proposals being discussed by the N. S.
Wales State Government have many
dangers.”
• •
N.S.W. Trades Hall Council, fresh
from ordering Transport Minister Martin
to tell Railways Commissioner Winsor
“where he gets off,” decided to tell the
Government which Martin adorns to
“freeze” doctors’ fees by price-control.
These boys are great at demanding more
wages for unionists and trying to peg
the wages of other people.
• •
A reduction of a gallon in the
retail price of petrol would really be
something if the Federal Treasurer
backed it up with a Id. or 2d. off petrol
tax.
• •
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” reports a rare
old shindy in the ranks of Queensland
“Labor” over the caucus decision to bump
up Parliamentary salaries and allow-
ances by £4OO a year. A large section
feels that the rise is too big and that it
is ill-timed in view of the fact that rail-
way and other Government employees
have been put off through shortage of
funds. A special meeting of the central
executive has been called for next Mon-
day.
• •
Maybe there’s something in whingeing,
after all. At the beginning of last week
everybody was doing a good old whinge
over the lack of rain in the wheatbelt.
By the end of the week solid falls had
been recorded all over the place. Even
J. Pluvius seems to value the agricultural
vote.
• •
“F.S.”: Melbourne was staggered by
the effect “owner-onus” in regard to car-
parking had in the heart of the city. The
day after the City Council issued its ukase
the business section looked like Mel-
bourne-on-Sunday. A mile out, however,
cars were parked three-deep in every
alley and by-way, despite the fact that a
large number of owners left their cars
home and walked, bused or trammed.
City shopmen are looking askance at the
revolution; suburban ones are reaping a
harvest. As a measure of decentralisation
0.-o. has done more in one week than
Governments have done in ten years.
• •
With the Doc. due back at the end of
the month Calwell is doing his best to
grab a headline before his acting-leader-
ship fizzles out. This being the hibernat-
ing season for politicians he’s not getting
many opportunities, but he made a wild
grab when the easing of import restric-
tions was announced. Arthur splathered
that the move would “have a detrimental
effect on Australian industries and Aus-
tralian workers,” and suggested the
answer would have to be “more and more
and higher and higher tariffs.”
When the restrictions were first im-
posed Calwell was among the noisiest of
the Government’s critics; now he appa-
rently wants what was intended to be a
temporary. measure designed to meet a
desperate situation to become a perma-
nent feature of our economy. What a
prospect! And what a premium to place
on inefficiency, both of management and
worker!
• •
“Ariel”: Seen at the Labor Day pro-
cession in Gympie (Q.), a placard dis-
playing the slogan “Swab Bob.” They
wouldn’t let me carry mine. It would
have read “Scratch Cocky.”
• • *
America’s offer of food-aid for Eastern
Germany, to be distributed as Russia
thought fit, seems to have put the Soviet
on a spot. Its acceptance would have
amounted to an admission that the Iron
Curtain economy had something to learn
from the Western world; its rejection
will show the people of East Germany
that their Russian rulers regard ideology
as of more importance than their well-
being.
• •
President of Australian Road Federa-
tion, Ltd., told the first annual meeting
in Melbourne last month that “only 22.11
p.c. of our roads are fit for the modern
road-vehicle.” Railway-minded State
Governments are expected to lose no
time reducing the percentage.
• •
Another of those State “Labor” works,
begun at the peak of the financial boom
in face of all warnings, has come to a
dead stop. This time it’s the electri-
fication of Brisbane suburban railways.
Acting-Premier Duggan confessed that
the • original estimate for 1953-54 was
£9.25 million. This was cut down to
£7 million and recently to £4.5 million.
“N.Q. Register,” which is published at
Townsville and has long held that North
Queensland is neglected by the Brisbane
Government, doubts if even a “crocodile
tear” will be shed in the north because
Brisbane has still to get about in steam-
trains.
• •
What one paper calls “promising re-
ports” have been made by the C.5.1.R.0.
on agricultural possibilities in North Aus-
tralia. The area has had “promising
reports” made about it almost every year
for the past 50 years. This time it’s
cotton, cereals, pastures, tobacco and
rice. There’s little doubt the North
would grow these things—the problem is
to get people to go there and grow them.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Irving”: I’m no authority on primi-
tive art, but I once saw an artist behav-
ing very primitively. His inspiration
came from a windfall of three bottles of
Scotch; his canvas was his girl-friend’s
flat and the features of several well-
meaning peacemakers on which he left
the marks of his genius. Attracted to
the exhibition by the sounds of splinter-
ing woodwork, crashing crockery and
feminine squeals, the landlord also suc-
cumbed to the forcefulness of the artist’s
primitive genius. Eventually a puritanical
wharfie in the bottom-floor flat dropped
in and dropped the artist, thereby closing
the primitive exhibition, with the battered
genius occupying the central position as
the unsigned masterpiece. As a mark of her
appreciation of his chivalrous interfer-
ence the girl-friend thereupon etched a
primitive design on the features of the
wharfie knight-errant with her crimsoned
nails.
J ❖ ❖ ❖
t “Nan”: Overheard at the Coronation-
film : “And all those thousands of people
sitting there hour after hour in the rain
—hundreds of them must have caught
their deaths of cold, if nothing worse!”
❖ <* ❖
“An Chaidh”: So they pronounce
Menzies as Mingies in his native land
(B. 24/5/’53)! There are more Menzieses
in Glasgow than in Culdare, and they say
Mengues. In Edinburgh i£s Mingiss, in
Inverness Menzies as spelt. Other varia-
tions are Meyners, Mingies, Menyess,
Means, Meine, Mennie, Minnus and
Monzie ; the Gaelic is Meinnearaich. But
clan Menzies canoot muster more varia-
tions in the spelling of their" name than
can the members of the clan Hay, under
whose patronymic I write. We have
something like 50 versions of that three-
letter word, yet I know not a single
example in the original Gaelic. The wild
Camerons to whom “Ek Dum” referred
take their name “Sons of the Hound”
from the fact they are descended from
Cuchullian of Skye, the Hound of
Ullian. The more correct translation of
their war-cry is “Sons of the Hound
come here and get flesh.” The last man to
be beheaded in Britain is generally recog-
nised as being Simon, Lord Lovat, not
Dr. Cameron,
♦J*
“Applex”: Elderly messenger, seventy-
plus, delivering handbills to a suburban
school, left his ancient but still road-
worthy bicycle in the playground. His
errand completed, he went to retrieve his
grid, and found a card tied to the handle-
bars. On it he read; “Safety First. There
are several defects in your machine, so
ask your father to see to it right away.”
His call at the school had coincided with
a police “Safety First” check-up.
■)&
“Eve”: “You’ve heard of the saying
‘Her face would stop a clock,’ ” said
George. “Well, I had an aunt once and
I also had a sensitive kitchen clock. On
five occasions in. one severe winter when
Auntie visited us, she glanced at the
clock the moment she came inside and,
true as gospel, the clock stopped every
time.” “How did you work it?” we
asked. “We didn’t,” declared George.
“The point was that the clock was'
abnormally sensitive to the cold. When-
ever you opened the kitchen door and
let in a good blast of winter weather,
bang! that clock would stop for at least
an hour. Still, it had its uses. After
that winter, Auntie got so sensitive about
one look from her stopping a clock that
she stopped visiting us.”
“F.S.”: “Q. Ree” asks (B. 1/7/’53)
why, if a pianist is told that if he prac-
tises enough the world might listen to
him, the same principle should not be
applied to artists. It should: but how
is he going to convince the modern artist
who believes in his own sensibility and
thinks he could paint what he sees
if he wanted to but doesn’t want to?
I’ve heard a “modern artist” say it is a
pity Rembrandt ever lived. That is the
equivalent of a musician saying it’s a
pity Schnabel and Paderewski ever lived
—i.e., to attain the same superlativeness
“You beast, Ambrose—let Mabel get on with the dinner!"
he would have to practise at least as
much as they did. I met in Paris an
American girl who was learning the
violin. One day she went to a modernist
exhibition, thought she would try her
hand at painting, painted half a dozen
pictures and sent the sixth to the Salon.
She was hailed as a genius in self-expres-
sion, and when she read her notices she
thought: “Well, if they say so I must
have something in me,” so she gave up
music and took to painting. She knew
perfectly well that to play the violin even
as well as an ordinary student at the
Paris Conservatoire, let alone as well as
Heifetz, would require incessant practice,
“It's Hassett this an' Hassett that—if you don't come to bed
you'll he gettin' some prussic-Hassett!"
but when the critics started talking as
if she were a Rembrandt, she didn’t apply
the same principle to her painting.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
H. Meyer: Tell “Kelms” (B. 24/6/’53)
the idea of using three-dimensional pic-
tures in technical works has already been
successfully tried in a booklet published
by the Zeiss firm of Jena (Germany)
which makes surveying instruments. The
pictures are printed in a brown-red color
with red and green-blue fines around the
outstanding parts; when looking through
glasses—one blue and one red—you see
file different parts of the instruments in
perspective. Several pictures of street-
scenes give a wonderful example of what
can be done with this system. The
booklet was published in 1936.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ $
“H.E.R.”: Tradition has it that when
Montrose was “out” for King Charles,
he was besieged in a small Highland
castle and, like the Spanish Loyalists (B.
24/6/’53), had plenty of powder, but no
missiles. The situation was saved when
a drummer-boy found in a garret a stock
of pewter utensils which were converted
into bullets and gave to the ensuing affray
the name of the Battle ,of the Chamber
Pots.
* ❖ *
“Chevroford”: These Road Safety
people limit their own ckse in their propa-
ganda. One of them has said that six
times as many children are killed on
the roads in Australia each year as were
slain by Herod. But Herod intended
to massacre the children; the motorist
isn’t trying to do that. He may
unconsciously be trying to massacre him-
self, judging by the speed at which he
often travels, but drivers don’t go round
looking for someone to kill. What the
council ought to do is to encourage the
motorist to be careful, not compare him
with a notorious political assassin.
❖ ❖
“C.S.”: My morning newspaper told
me the second Test was a draw, and its
cricket writer informed me, inter alia,
that “This extraordinary field-placing
reduced Johnston to a most undangerous
bowler.” Will someone please indicate
for me the dividing-line between most
undangerous and harmless?
❖ * ❖
“McKim”: When a goods train on a
night run to Bogan Gate (N.S.W.),
snapped in two and the driver went
careering on with a few trucks, it looked
like neglect or faulty appliances. It was
neither. Train robbers, who engineered
the break, knew something about train-
handling. The parting of a train allows
a i r to escape from the Westinghouse
brake-line and that, in turn, slams the
brake hard down on every truck. The
ent j re train, even if in two parts, must
In tMs c the brake . line was
sho r t . circuited * th ! f t S€Ction bv the
s “ on circmtea m tnetront section oy me
closmg of a tap on the last truck Hence
when the couplings were
enough when the trucks were bunched-
only the tail-endefs were braked to a stop,
This left only the guard to be dealt with
before the foragers settled down to a
leisurely and methodical hunt for loot.
“Crunch”; In medieval times the nasal
(B. 24/6/’53) was definitely “good
form”—in religious circles anyway.
Chaucer praises the nasal tones of the
Prioress in his Prologue to “The Canter-
bury Tales” by saying:
Ful wel she soong the service divyne
Entuned in hir nose ful semely.
One modern authority had a theory about
the whole business. In the Dark Ages,
he said, the practice of non-stop psalm-
singing caused a high casualty-rate among
clerical throats, so the clergy began to
use their noses to help carry the burden
of their praise. If the nasal twang of
the later Elizabethans had the same cause,
then those chappies must have been pro-
digious ear-bashers. Conversely, it is
possible that the lapse of the nasal twang
in modern times is proof that the art
of conversation is dead.
-J* <£♦
“Muskeen”: Hand-grenades in World
War I were missiles that could be, and
were, used twice (B. 24/6/’53) before
disintegration. Jerry’s egg-bomb had a
seven-second fuse; and if one landed on
your back when you were lying in a shell-
hole, there was nothing for it but return
to sender.
i* ❖ ❖
“Mentor”: At our school the real test
of a teacher is the way he deals with the
annual catapult epidemic. Some heroes
of the past got results by canings on the
grand scale, some by fearful shoutings
and bellowings, and some by wholesale
search and confiscation; but the new
bloke had the best idea of all. He
waited till he had the ringleader spotted,
then turned his back on the class. A
few seconds later there was the twang
of elastic, and a soggy paper-pellet spat-
tered against the board alongside him.
He turned back again with a man-sized
catapult in his hand, and let the guilty
party have it fair between the eyes.
“That’s to show you I can do it better
than you,” he said quietly, “and the next
one gets six.” It worked.
♦♦+ •
“Rooster”: Under cover of a blinding
sandstorm at Mersa Matruh, Baldy and
Snow groped their way to the food dump,
intent on some selective scrounging.
Visibility was almost zero ; only instinct
guided them. Arrived at the dump they
groped about, filling a kitbag with tins
of assorted provisions. Suddenly Baldy
exclaimed ecstatically. His fingers
clutched at some familiar-sized flat, round
tins. “Weed! ”he enthused. They scooped
as many as possible into the bag. Then
they staggered back to camp with the
100t —a hundred tins of anti-gas ointment.
SIR ARTIE’S PARTY
“The Acting Prime Minister and Treasurer,
Sir Arthur Fadden, said that he deplored ‘all
this premature and irresponsible speculation
about what the Budget will contain.’ ”
Honest Artie gave a party —
No one came.
Next year he gave another
Just the same.
But the smarties who like parties
Will appear
At the party Artie’s due to
Give this year.
A little bird has passed the word
Around about
That this year Artie will be handing
Presents out.
He’s mother’s boy and Grannie’s joy
They now insist;
The helper of the farmer and
Industrialist.
And as they praise his handsome face
And'curly locks
They calculate their share of Artie’s
Moneybox.
“I won’t abuse the likes of youse,”
Says Artie, “though
Yer wasn’t such good friends of mine
A while ago.
“Ah, no; instead, yer cut me dead —
It broke me ’eart;
But now I’m in the money, it’s
4 Yer know me, Art!’
“It’s ’ard ter see how blokes can be
Such slimy worms;
I s’pose I got ter live with youse —
But on my terms.”
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“Flat B.”: Fragment of a conversation
between two not-so-young ladies. “Wasn’t
much of ado at all. Certainly didn’t get
my three-bob’s worth, let alone the ‘plus
tax’!”
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Clooter”: Sydney citizens always
command space in their daily newspapers
when they want to whinge about some-
thing. Therefore we are used to com-
plaints about crowing roosters, perching
pigeons, impolite trammies, milkos
“I could MURDER these people who are always hating someone!”
rattling bottles in the small hours, bark-
ing blaring radios, noisy children
(though in this respect there should be
real concern when children are silent),
uncivil bus-passengers, honking cars,
roaring motor-bikes and all the rest of
it. The daddy of them all turned up
with a complaint that church-bells did
him out of his Sunday-morning lie-in.
This brought faint support, but much
more indignation from people who like
to hear the “tintinnabulation that so
musically wells From the bells, bells,
bells.” As another fair specimen, our
suburban council was once seriously in-
vited to remove a couple of kookaburras
which took to laughing on somebody’s
housetop of sundry summer mornings.
+ „ *
v v v
“Dash”; At the art exhibition a bright
young thing viewed the offerings some-
what dubiously. She stopped in front of
a small canvas on which were sketched
a few vertical pink lines with a
squiggly bit in the middle. “I
wonder what grandmother
would have thought of that?”
she remarked to no one in par-
ticular. A long-haired type
standing near by cast a haughty
eye in her direction. “That,” he
said, “is Grandmother.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“J.K.D.”: Most ex-servicemen
who were in the Middle East
will remember the weekly issue
of five packets of a highly un-
popular and almost unsmokeable
brand of cigarettes. Our sig-
nallers put them to good use on
night-duty in the sandbag-
enclosed switchboard-room. The
idea was to light one of the
cigarettes, hold it between the
fingers and then doze off. Ten
minutes or so later the fag would
burn down to the fingers, giving
a silent reminder to wake up.
And so the process would be
repeated throughout the night.
But the scheme let me down ; I
awoke to find the cigarette had
rolled away from my fingers and
burnt itself out on the floor.
Raising my eyes over the top of
the switchboard, I was almost
paralysed with fright to see
staring at me a grim, arrogant-
looking German officer in battle-
dress, high-peaked cap and all.
I slowly stood up, raised my
arms and prepared to surrender.
Then a British intelligence-officer shoved
his head around the partition and asked
where the C.O. was, adding that I
shouldn’t sleep on duty. The Hun was
a prisoner who had been escorted fiom
Tobruk by the Tommy officer for special
interrogation. It was a long time before
I slept on duty again,
*** ❖
“H.W.M.”: When the offices and
works of the late Walter Hoadley, of the
chocolate company, on Melbourne’s St.
Kilda-road, were destroyed by fire over 30
years ago the firm intended to rebuild
immediately on the same spot, but
was informed that it was desired
to keep the road as free of com-
mercialism as possible. After a lot
of negotiation Hoadleys agreed to
build elsewhere. Then the Common-
wealth Government stepped in and
erected the ramshackle wooden shed-like
premises now occupied by the Repatria-
tion Department. There was a public
outcry when the place was run up, but
the Government declared that the un-
sightly structure was only temporary. It’s
still there.
“Bamekaw”: For years my neighbor
has been dithering around racecourses
without much success. He always knows
the good thing for Saturday which is
no t so good by Sunday. He can give
you the most convincing reasons why a
horse should win and, afterwards, the
mo st logical explanations why it lost,
Recently I went to a big meeting with
a friend. Halfway through I lost contact
with him, but after a while he came
p a nting up to tell me he had the winner
f or the next. He’d got it from an oblig-
ing stranger he had just met. Like any
other mug punter I rushed off with him
to invest my ten-bob. While we were
lamenting after the race he nudged me
and pointed. “There’s the bloke who
gave me the oil,” he said. It was my
neighbor, running true to form.
“They offered me a big contract as a trapeze-artist, but I told them I
Wasn’t interested in their monkey business.”
“Sackville”: I enjoy those old bush
ballads as much as the next man, but
aren’t we sticking our neck out in claim-
ing “The Dying Stockman” and “Click
Go the Shears, Boys” as Australian songs
(B. 24/6/’53)? The first-named is a
parody on an old English cavalrymen’s
song: “Wrap me up in my old stable
jacket,” while the second is pinched from
that lively old air that runs; “Ring the
bell, watchman, ring, ring, ring.” Still,
songwriters seem to have a permit to
commit these acts of barefaced burglary
—and apparently always have had. As
Kipling put it; “When ’Omer smotfe his
bloomin’ lyre, I bet he stole, the same
as me.”
♦> *t*
“M’reeb”: Our local weekly makes a
feature of “Social” gossip from the
various towns in its district. Here’s this
year’s prize item: “Mrs. B. Dash looked
charming in her dress of grey faille when
she visited a sick friend in hospital one
day last week.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“Macleay”: In the kitchenware depart-
ment the woman stared moodily at one
of those cake-timers which ring a violent
little bell at the required moment. “I
had one of those,” she mourned, “but
it was a dismal failure.” “Didn’t the bell
work?” asked the shopgirl. “Yes, too
well,” she sighed, “I have three dogs, you
see. Whenever the bell went they’d hear
it and think somebody was at our front
door. Their wild rush through the hall
to investigate broke more knick-knacks
and ornaments than the well-cooked cakes
were ever worth.”
<♦ ❖
“Mem”: A private-hospital patient
with a badly inflamed arm and accom-
panying high temperature was left for
the night with the painful wing comfort-
ably tucked up on a hot-water bag. In
the morning Sister was surprised to find
the bag empty. A sheepish patient con-
fessed that he had drunk the tepid and
rubber-flavored contents of the “hottie,”
as he had an insatiable thirst, and didn’t
want to wake Sister after he’d swigged
his ordinary jug of water. Such cbn-
sideration merited equal treatment from
the remorseful Sister, who refrained from
telling him that the bag had been filled
from a steriliser used for boiling up dirty
dishes and instruments!
❖ ❖
“Bump”: Architectural survivals in
Australian houses (B. 24/6/’53)? The
stout concrete pillars with concrete
ball atop which give entrance to the
narrow pathway leading to so many
suburban front doors can he traced
back to when the. feudal lord
held power of life and death and could
sentence his villeins in his own court.
Malefactors’ heads were stuck on his
gateposts as a warning to others. As
times became milder carved heads re-
placed skulls and successive generations
of craftsmen reduced the heads to
abstract decoration in the manner of
modernist painters. The final stage of
degeneration came when round balls of
iron or concrete could be cast in moulds
at a rate of dozens a minute. As to
the dragons—they and the griffins, two-
headed eagles and other mythical mon-
sters experienced a revival about 40 years
ago when a Melbourne builder invented
a method of casting them in terra-cotta.
They can still be picked up in wreckers’
yards and a few of them have got back ’
into circulation, not on the rooftops, but
in the gardens of ultra-modern houses,
where they look as incongruous as a
tophat on the head of a New Guinea
savage.
*l* »t<
“Sparks”: It’s uncanny how pilots get
to know their rivers! After weathering
a cyclone in Hervey Bay, our little ship
hove-to off Sea Hill about sunset to take
on the Rockhampton pilot. When he
clambered aboard he told the Old Man
that the cyclone had blown out the lead-
lights up the river, but he believed he
could get us up the 32 miles of treach-
erous winding waterway. The Old Man
agreed, the pilot requesting that
“Sparks” should be stationed on the boat-
deck above the bridge with an Aldis
lamp. We began our journey up the
Fitzroy in pitch-darkness. Every now
and again the pilot would call, “There
should be a buoy off the port bow now,
see if you can pick it up,” or “Look for
a leading-mark on the starboard bank.”
Sure enough, as soon as I switched on
the lamp, which was like a miniature
searchlight, there would be the buoy bob-
bing gently in the current or the lead
gleaming white on the bank. We reached
Rockhampton without any of the
numerous mishaps which we imagined
could have occurred in the inky darkness.
The pilot rang “Finished with engines,”
and stepped off the ship as calmly as if
it was an everyday occurrence .to play
blind-man’s-buff with a ship and a dark-
ened treacherous river.
❖ ❖
“Piper”: There’s a bloke up at Sydney’s
“Cross” who, having attained a certain
.degree of lubrication, tests his condition
by walking across the pedestrian-cross-
ing at the top of William-street along
the outside yellow line. If he manages
to keep his feet on the straight and
narrow he recrosses the road and has
another. I’m looking forward to seeing
him try himself out on the experimental
Zebra crossing they’ve installed there.
'<s*
“Billjim 2207”: About the time the
Second Division joined the originals at
Anzac I was invalided to Mudros tabbed
“Enteric-fever suspect.” The No. 1
Canadian Field Hospital Unit, just estab-
lished there, made me the sole occupant
of an isolation marquee, where the fever
diet, consisting mainly of maizemeal and
canned milk, became deadly monotonous.
I craved for a change, and opportunity
came when a native pedlar entered the
unguarded tent with a barrow of almonds.
The kernel-crunching feast was delicious,
but my epicurean joy was soon eclipsed
by unbearable stomach pains that twisted
me unconscious. Later, at Chelsea Hos-
pital, London, nurses told me that the
Aquitania had to Blighty in
a more-or-less delirious condition. I
suppose the offence really comes under
the heading “Self-inflicted Wound.”
THE ONE-TRACK MIND
“Women police-court witnesses are too often
unreliable because they remember only the
things that interest them personally. —Legal
article.
“Well, I peeped through the curtain
And saw the car stop.
It was black, or it might have been
yellow —
I’m not very certain,
I just saw the top —
And then out of it jumped a big
fellow
Between twenty and fifty.
Quite nuggety, tall.
With, hair either ginger or raven.
He’d eyes rather shifty,
Dark glasses, and small
Pointed beard — or he COULD have
been shaven.”
“From his pocket he hauled out
A gun, or a knife —
Whatever it was, it was shiny—
-7 hen somebody called out
‘Joe, run for your life !’ —
It way either ‘Joe,’ ‘Harry’ or ‘Tiny.’
They both started shooting —
Or one of them did —
There were two shots, or four, maybe
seven.
Then the car started tooting;
I heard: ‘Hop in, Sid.’
Let me see: Was it Sid, now, or
Kevin ? . . . \
“Oh, the girl who was running ?
She wore nylon sheers,
An off-lemon frock, sunray-pleated,
Which looked really stunning
With beech-brown revers;
Her cloche with half-veiling way
treated.
Her gloves were the shade of
Cigar. Shoes were kid
In the same tone — they must have
been dear-oh!
Her handbag was made of
Light snakeskin —and did
It look smart, that small primrose
bolero!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Faster by TAA pressurised COWV AIR-LINER
TO MELBOURNE. BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, ADELAIDE (and on to Perth by DC4)
Taa
PERSONAL ITEMS
Retiring to his golf. Air-Vice-Marshal
Francis Masson Bladin was a Duntroon
graduate who switched to the air away
back in 1923. Since then most of the
R.A.A.F.’s important postings have landed
in his cpckpit, among them Deputy-Chief -
of-Air-Staff, Director of Organisation and
Intelligence, Chief-of-Staff, 8.C.0.F., and
—last appointment—Air Member for
Personnel. His several rows of ribbons
include a “mention” and an American
A.F.C. He did the planning for the 6th
Airborne Division paratroop-landing in
France on D-Day.
Herewith, Arthur Frank Bell, Under-
secretary for Agriculture and Stock (Q.),
chairman of the Brisbane Milk Board
and contender for the title of champion
board-and-committee-member of his
State. He chairs, advises on or is a
member of just under a dozen boards,
bureaux, councils and faculties, their
purposes ranging from agriculture and
veterinary science to sugar-experimenting
and irrigation-production. Bell’s educa-
tion was equally embracing—scientific
degrees from the universities of Queens-
land, California and London. Old
BOARD-ROOM
Digger, when not chairing the C.5.1.R.0.
State Committee, or the Sugar Experi-
ment Stations’ Board of Management, or
the Food and Agricultural Organisation,
or writing for technical journals, Bell
belts a golf-ball.
“Fitz”: More than 50 years ago The
Bulletin printed on its “Aboriginalities” page
a verse of 40 lines called *‘A Gaol-Wall Inscrip-
tion,” signed “Mousquetaire,” which it described
as “The best send-off yet given to ‘The
Breaker.’ ” When Frank Fox published in
1902 his Bushman and Buccaneer, the stoiw of
Morant’s life and death, he included “Mous-
quetaire’s” poem; and, as recently as 1947,
F. M. Cutlack referred to the poem as carrying
in its “mounting refrain the interpretation of
the saving grace in his character which kept
Morant his friends despite all his shortcomings.”
Scattered through The Bulletin files of the
late ’nineties are many “Mousquetaire” poems
—such pieces as “A Apostate’s Song,” “Across
the Black Soil Plains” and “Four Friends,” the
latter a tribute to Gordon, Ogilvie, Paterson
and Lawson. “Mousquetaire” died recently
at the age of 91, in Shropshire (Eng.), and his
death brought track a memory to Mrs. Hope
Ailwyn, of Condobolin (N.S.W.). “Mous-
quetaire” was Gordon Tidy (son of Major-
General Thomas Holmes Tidy), and came to
Australia in the middle ’nineties. He was a
tutor to the sons of the licensee of the Royal
Hotel, Condobolin, when Mrs. Ailwyn’s father,
David Scott, took him to Mowabla to teach
the Scott children. Mrs. Ailwyn remembers-
Tidy as a scholarly and lovable little man,
keenly interested in the writings of the Aus-
tralian poets. Gordon Tidy afterwards edited
the Condobolin “Argus,” and in 1903 became
an Anglican priest. He left the Anglican
Church in 1911, while at St. James’s, Sydney,
during the famous vestments dispute of that
year and joined the Roman Catholic Church.
Later he was re-admitted to his own church
and remained an Anglican priest until his death.
A friend of Will Ogilvie in Australia —Mrs.
Ailwyn can remember them both sitting under
a gum-tree and talking endlessly—Tidy corres-
ponded with his brother-poet right to fhe end.
Said Ogilvie in a letter to me: “A remarkable
man was Gordon Tidy, and had he taken to
writing seriously he might have made a great
name for himself.”
Infantryman and R.F.C. pilot of
War I, J. S. Angus is folding his net and
stealing into retirement after 17 years of
secretarying the S. Australian Lawn
Tennis Association. Recognised as one
of the finest administrators in the game,
Angus fittingly wound-up his L.T.A.
associations by organising his last big
assignment—the Davis Cup challenge-
round in Adelaide.
“Macnell”: One of the third intake of
sndtties to the R.A.N. College, Roy
Russell Dowling has served in three
cruisers, before War II was squadron
gunnery-officer of the British Third
Cruiser Squadron, and, the other day,
became the third college graduate to reach
flag - rank rear - admiral. Quietly-
mannered, conceded the
highest accolade —“a thorough gent.”—
Dowling specialised in gunnery well before
War II called for it, and had cruiser Naiad
in the Mediterranean, under the cele-
brated Vian, when a torpedo rendered
him shipless. He took command of
cruiser Hobart, refitting from her
torpedo-damage, worked-up her almost
new crew (with a meticulous thoroughness
present writer well remembers), and took
her through all the Borneo landings, to
witness the signing in Tokyo Bay. Pos-
sibly as difficult as any assignment was
his taking command of carrier Sydney—
from Hobart’s lean length Dowling had to
handle a spreading acreage of deck and
wind-resistant sides that blocked his view
for 150 ft. when coming alongside. With
characteristic thoroughness he took, in
England, training in a Moth and landed
on his new deck in a Sea Fury fighter.
As far as is known he still holds the
R.A.N.C. record for the 440yds. canter,
a time he put up in 1918. Queensland-
born, Mark 1901.
Appointed Resident Magistrate at
Cue (W.A.), Bernard M. O’Sullivan be-
comes, at 32, the youngest full-time Beak
yet appointed in Westralia. A p.-0.-w.
in Singapore and Thailand from 1942
to 1945, for the past seven years he’d
been associate to the Chief Justice, Sir
John Dwyer.
L. S. Harrison, of Sydney, has been
appointed by the Flour Millowners’
Association of N.S.W. to make a com-
prehensive survey of the wheat industry,
including handling, distribution and pro-
duction. From this the association
hopes for proposals that will lead to im-
proved wheat and flour quality. Harrison
is a former N.S.W- Wheat Commissioner,
was manager of the Government grain
elevators, and has been associated with
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture for
30 years. In 1935 he studied wheat-
handling in Canada, U.S. and the Argen-
tine.
There have been youthful prodigies
aplenty of the piano: Joseph Gurt, who
has given a recital of his own works at
the Assembly Hall in Melbourne, could
be a prodigy among composers. Born
in Poland, a New Australian at four, he
learnt the rudiments of music in Mel-
bourne from his parents, whose teaching
was carefully overseen by the late
Edward Goll, who prophesied a great
future for this child of four who could
then transpose any exercise he learnt.
Goll communicated with his old friend
Ignace Friedmann, who took the child
for lessons for another four years in
Sydney. A little later he came back to
Melbourne and attended the University
Con. for two years. He is now off to
the Juilliard School, New York, where
he intends to study piano, composition
and conducting. Young Gurt composed
and conducted music for the University
revue, and is booked to play his • latest
work to the British Musical Society prior
to sailing. His Assembly Hall programme
included a first performance in Australia
of a Hindemith sonata as well as his
own sonata for clarinet and piano.
The two men so far appointed to clean-
up the hospitals tangle in Melbourne are
both experts at salvage. Dr. John Henry
Lindell, chairman of the new commission,
graduated as a pharmaceutical chemist at
18, and at 45 is medical superintendent
of Royal Melbourne. In between
chemistry and medical-practice he was a
flier in the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F., and
while in the Australian force broke both
arms and both legs in an aircrash. A. J.
McLellan, appointed third member, has
had a fist in the financial side and control
of big Board of Works building projects,
as well as several of those queer jobs
that come at times of crisis. In the
depression he was put in charge of 2000
men whom a Government in desperation
had decided to provide with mining-
equipment and food and send out pros-
pecting for gold. During the Jap over-
flowing he was sent to Queensland to
salvage 500 evacuees from occupied Hong
Kong.
“Pip Tok”: One of the great collecting
ornithologists of Australia, F. Lawson
Whitlock, passed on in Bunbury (W.A.),
at 93. Born at Nottingham (U.K.) he had
written much about English birds before
he came to Australia in 1901. After that,
he did much field-work in such out-of-
the-way parts of Australia as Barrow
Island, Wiluna, the Nullarbor Plain,
Central Australia and the Kimberleys,
during which he discovered and described
many native birds which had previously
been unknown to ornithologists. One of
these was a species of honey-eater, which
he found near Wiluna (W.A.) in 1910.
The sick-berth-attendant is the Navy’s,
male nurse. Mostly he issues Number-
nines and tinea-ointment until, with
action joined and hot steel-splinters
ricocheting, he’s into it with a ven-
geance. He can be called up to the
gunnery-director or down to attend a
stoker in the boiler-room with skin peeled
off by superheated steam. In 40 years’
service Wardmaster-Lieu tenant Jack
(“Ike”) Levy has seen his share of
Number-nines and action-casualties. He
was in the Sydney when she ran Emden
on her reef (and received a few inboard
herself) and when the cruiser opened up
at Zeppelins off Heligoland in 1916.
Coming home in 1918, he had his troop-
ship removed from under him by torpedo
in the Bay of Biscay. Wardmaster now,
with something the same job as a matron
in a big city hospital, Ike once, as a
lowly 5.8. A., stopped the admiral’s leave. >
WARD-ROOM
Yank Hyde, then flag-officer-command-
ing, rushed on board his flagship, slipped
and lacerated his leg. With no M.O. on
board at the time, young Ike promptly
inserted six stitches in the august leg
and confined the protesting owner to
bunk—he having a dinner appointment.
Next day an apprehensive M.O. sidled
into the admiral’s cabin, to have his
apologies cut short by a grin and the
remark, “Never mind. I didn’t want to
go to the damned dinner-party anyway.”
Both Ike’s sons are in the Navy.
An earnest, thrusting sort of face with
a good cutting-edge to it; lively-eyed
and vital with a quick grin—Frank
Waters, one of the names in Australian
radio, and the male name in the Inde-
pendent’s current offering, “Death of a
Salesman.” Born Broken Hill, raised
Adelaide, local town’s repertory and time
in the A.1.F., reaching Borneo—Waters
followed the usual pattern of local talent,
with two notable exceptions. May Hol-
lingworth took him in hand, and under
GREEN-ROOM
her wise aegis he played in two of
Douglas Stewart’s plays, “Ned Kelly”
and “Shipwreck.” Thenceforth Waters
was a marked man, and reached a high
peak with his performance at the Inde-
pendent. There, the other night, Anthony
Quayle saw him, A dressing-room con-
ference later, then an audition, has re-
sulted in a year’s contract for Waters to
play with Quayle at Stratford-on-Avon.
So began Leo McKern, Keith Michell
and Peter Finch. Judged by his present
competence, there’s a good chance of
Waters achieving the same European
recognition.
“Cauboy”: Leaving by air for London,
Edouard Borovansky, who performed the
near-miracle of establishing a ballet-
company which would bear com-
parison with some of the best from
the traditional home of ballet. He’s off
to look for a handful of modem ballets
and talent to dance them for the pur-
poses of a new Borovansky co., which
will open at Her Majesty’s in Melbourne
round about Christmas.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 73, Sam Jessop, after a life
varied enough to fill a shelf of adventure novels.
Son of a one-time M.L.A. for Dalby (Q-h
Sam started off a station-hand, took on horse-
breaking, then journalism (beginning his
Bulletin contributions in 1901), and had a
shot at bank-officering with the ’Wales. The
outback called —head-stockman on Lake Nash,
one of Queensland’s biggeslt cattle-stations;
Crown Land ranger in the central and northern
districts; to, finally, stock-inspector at Too-
woomba and Cannon Hill. One-time State rep.
in the inter-State eights, towards the end he
took to broadcasting.
In Melbourne, at 57, Superintendent William
George Hogg, who won the policeman’s V.C.
in 1923 when he recaptured an armed escapee
at Gunbower. He made the Gallipoli landing
at 18, was gassed in France, rejoined the force
and was one of the original quartette who
formed Russell-street’s D 24 radio-detective
squad at the outbreak of the late war.
In Melbourne, Dr, Hilda Bull, widow of
Dr. John Dale, former Health Officer of Mel-
bourne. She was formerly infectious-diseases
officer for Melbourne City Council and inaugu-
rated the anti-tuberculosis campaign. Her first
husband was the late Louis Esson, playwright.
At 62, in Melbourne, Gordon Leslie Wood,
Professor of Commerce, one of Australia s
leading economists and an influence on Aus-
tralian economic thought in the field of public
finance and development of the country s
resources. His book, Land Utilisation in Aus-
tralia, which he wrote in collaboration with
Professor Wadhatn, is a standard work. Born
at Launceston, he was educated in Hobart ana
moved to Melbourne from St. Peter’s College,
Adelaide, where he was a master. During tfie
'war he was a member of the Commonwealth
Grants Commission.


THE SOCIAL SUCCESS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Grey was camped in the
bend just above Tapalin. One night a
red-headed bloke named Connolly
tramped down from the main road and
made camp near by. About noon next
day they met as each drew a billy of
water from the river. “Come far?”
asked Connolly. Grey pondered. “Down
the river,” he replied. “Uh-huh.” Con.
went back to his camp. That night Grey
drifted over to Con.’s fire, squatted,
picked an ember up and lit his pipe.
“Come far?” he asked. “Minduk way.”
“Uh-huh,” Con. rolled a cigarette.
Presently Grey said, “Think I’ll make
down t’ Wentworth.” After considera-
tion, Con. offered, “Not a bad town.”
When Grey arose to leave Con, said, “Y’
wouldn’t have a bit of salt?” Grey
grunted and went. In the morning
he came to Con.’s camp, gave him some
salt, and withdrew. Six months later
they were still together, camped outside
Peak Hill, on the Bogan. Thus, in the
old days before high wages and plenty
of jobs depopulated the tracks and
camps, did mateship bud, blossom and
flower in the outback.
**♦ i ♦
“Deecee”: Here’s the lost-and-found
story of the year: The owner of the
piggery at Gayndah, in the Burnett (Q.)
district, had noticed for some time that
one of the pigs was lame. Opening up
a swelling on the leg, he found under
the flesh a gold signet-ring encircling the
bone of the leg. The ring was engraved
with initials, and, less than an hour after
it had been removed from the pig’s leg,
it was claimed by the owner, who said
he had lost it near the piggery several
years ago. Apparently the pig had put
its foot through the ring when a suckling
and the flesh had grown over it.
♦ * * ♦
“Sebak”: The kids came rushing up
to the house with exciting news, “There’s
a mad bloke in the big paddock! He’s
playing ring-a-rosies with himself!”
Tliey demonstrated. Apparently the
fellow had been holding both hands out
in front of his body and spinning round
in circles. Investigation seemed impera-
tive. As I topped the rise the fellow was
going through his antics, silhouetted
against the setting sun. He began
to walk away as X approached,
then stooped, picked up something off
the ground and strode back towards me.
The man was little short of a giant, and
I was wondering whether to start running
immediately or wait till the last second
when he smiled and called: “Just getting
in a bit of practice; hope you don’t
mind.” At closer range he explained: “I
generally bring the hammer when I go for
a run in the car; it’s so awkward in the
city—try to practise in a park and you’re
a moral to slaughter a couple of kids.”
Thus I met my first hammer-thrower, and
beheld the peculiar action involved in the
ancient sport. But I still can’t figure out
how a lead-filled brass ball hung from a
long wire by a swivel can become a
hammer.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Bogaduck”: Whoever wrote Ralph
Rashleigh did stretch things by saying
that our meat-ants could clean-up the
corpse of a man in a few hours (B.
10/6/’53). When I was a lad I tried them
on a sheep carcass I’d been ordered
to bury, but the thing was still there and
almost intact when Dad found it two
days later. Probably only the soldier-
and driver-ants of West Africa and South
America could make such short work of
a cadaver.
m * * *
“5.4 E.”: If Queensland wants a
national animal, why not the goat?
Thousands of outback Queenslanders
owe their sturdiness to the goat’s milk
from which they derived their early sus-
tenance, for it is disease-free. Young,
the goat has furnished many a savory
joint and stew, and nobody who has
tasted kid baked whole will deny that
it’s an appetising dish. Goat-hides have
covered the antbed floors of many a
selector’s humpy as he battled his way up
through droughts, floods and fires to a
homestead and
Axminsters. Gelded
male goats grew
to the size of small
calves; yoked in
fours, sixes and eyen
more to home-made
trolleys and slides
they carted water,
timber, firewood and
even rations when
the need arose.
They possessed, furthermore, so great a
passion for sleeping in the safety of their
own yard that each evening they came
home of their own accord. The goat
needed no cosseting; he waxed fat amid
drought and death, and multiplied where
dingoes abounded.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Early in this century a man
named Michell left a job in a school of
mines in Cornwall and came out to
W.A. as a metallurgist on the Mons
Cupri coppermine at Whim Creek. While
he was there some men who were pros-
peering around Wodgina, not far from
Marble Bar, showed him samples of what
he identified as a tantalum ore. At that
time tantalum was just coming into use
for filaments in electric globes and as a
steel-hardener, so Michell persuaded them
to carry on with their show. Lack of
capital forced them to abandon it. Now
Wodgina is one of W.A.’s chief sources
of the metal, and W.A. supplies a big
part of the world’s demand for high-
grade ore. It’s used in making steel for
engine-parts which are subject to high
temperatures, in radio tubes, chemical
equipment, hypodermic needles, spatules,
etc. It’s superior to platinum as a
cathode for some purposes, and tantalum
carbide is one of the hardest things
known —almost as hard as diamond.
When Michell died recently in England
there were found some old sacks in his
shed. They contained the tantalum ore
he’d bought from the prospectors and
had shipped to England. He ■ gave £2OO
for it then; it’s valued now at about
£lO,OOO.
♦ * * *
“Elkeedra”: In an impassioned
protest about a cargo of native birds and
animals being sent overseas a Melbourne
man claimed that “Mallee-hens, or
lowans, rank with lyrebirds as unique
and are utterly unsuitable for captivity
anywhere.” The late T. P. Bellchambers
started to keep mallee-hens in netted
yards at his Humbug Scrub sanctuary, in
the hills near Adelaide, back in 1912.
Since his death a son, R. F. Bellchambers,
has carried on the work. Not only have
generation after generation of mallee-
hens, all descended from the original
pairs, been reared at Humbug Scrub, but
surplus birds have been sent to zoos or
handed over to owners of other private
sanctuaries. The work of the Bell-
chambers family is well known in
Britain and America, but apparently
news of it hasn’t yet filtered through to
Melbourne. Anyway, the kangaroos,
wombats, wallabies, black swans, etc.,
being shipped to California will fare
well enough—the climate approximates
ours, and Americans must be given full
marks for the way they care for animals
in sanctuaries.
* * * ♦
“W.J.W.”: There’s an earth-fire still
burning in Australia which tops anything
yet mentioned (B. 10/6/’53). It’s in Mt.
Wingen, about 200 miles north-west of
Sydney. When first seen in 1826 it was
“No, sir, three-piece suits are out of fashion.”
assumed to be a volcano, and it
wasn’t until a geologist visited the spot
a few years later that this theory was
exploded. It is a burning coal-seam,
part of the Greta seam, from 6ft. to lift,
thick, and it’s estimated to have been
burning for anything up to 10,000 years.
Professor David’s theory that the fire
was started by spontaneous combustion is
generally accepted. It is now burning on
a chain-front at the rate of about 3ft.
or 4ft. a year. It won’t be extinguished
until it reaches the summit of the moun-
tain, and it will be centuries before it
gets there.
* * * *
. I’ve sent that cartoon about
the North Pole (B. 3/6/’53) to my mate,
who trained the husky dogs at Heard
Island last year, and now expect to hear
of his death from laughter any day. We
had great fun training these dogs for
work in the Antarctic. Magnificent
animals, they will be able to travel 25
to 30 miles a day when the job of ex-
ploration and mapping begins at Mac-
Robertson Land next year. Butch and
Mack were my favorites. Leaders, and
kings by right of conquest, they were
merciless when dealing with unruly team-
members, yet were capable of unlimited
affection for human beings. When
approached they would wait in trembling
anticipation until within reach, then rear
into the air and grab the person around
the waist with their forelegs. Then
would follow a wrestle with 110-odd
pounds of solid muscle which the dog
often came close to winning. When
other memories of an interest-packed year
fade somewhat Butch and Mack will be
as clear to me as ever.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Edx”: Air alone will not rot
timber, and neither will water alone, but
nothing in or on the earth will for long
resist their combined attack, with the
exception of gold and ope or two other
things. Recently pulled down a
dividing-fence which had always had a
garden-bed on each side. The redgum
posts, perfectly sound above the ground,
were without exception rotted away to
nothing about 18in. below the surface,
where the earth is constantly Wet and
the air-water attack consequently per-
sistent. That fence was put up 29 years
ago, whereas redgum stumps under the
house, dry all the year round, are still
firm after 60 years. Any amount of
timber-furniture, well-preserved, has been
recovered from old Egyptian tombs where
the dry air has inhibited decay, and it is
said that when Mussolini had the Pontine
marshes drained they recovered timber-
piles with no sign of decay after many
centuries’ immersion in mud. In that case
air had been excluded.
THE GOOD OLD DAYS
They passed me first at King-street and I
followed them to Park
(A Sydney winter evening, the loveliest I know).
Their suits were draped on puny hips, a mess
of light and dark;
Their hair in watered wavelets and their sandals
flash and low.
They minced into a milkbar up against a
mercer’s store
Where a robot called a juke-box wailed a
psychopathic song.
They were just too old for training; had been
just too young for war —
Though a man who called them pansies would
have been, unfairly, wrong.
For such bandanna’d bodgies are “The product
of the Age,”
“By Zootsuit out of Crewcut” as their pasty
pedigree—
The Pitt-street Yanks of Fiftythree—l hear
dead voices rage
To nark the milkbar mobsters seeking space
in history:
“Lord, give us back the Pyrmont push, the
button-boots and checks
When Griffo fought at Newtown, as Clark
O’Donnell tells;
Where bowler hats hid close-cropped heads
above the jersey necks
And Miller’s Point was made for men, un-
healthy spot for swells.
“We grant we were a leery lot, the roughies
from the Rocks,
The dingo-dips from Ultimo, the foxes from
Foveaux;
A kisser-kicking team of toughs who fought
with stones in socks” —
(A sort of noisy knucklemen, a fearsome
farrago)
“But we were local boys at heart, we sought
no other mien;
We were the Sydney larrikins, we had our
Sydney pride.
When Mafeking was free again we yelled ‘God
Save the Queen’
Our crosses rose on every field whereon Aus-
tralians died”-
Then suffocate the bodgie! Give us back the
Larrikin.
L’Envoi
I’ve a friend named Leo Reddy, A.1.F., his leg
in Greece
So I howled at him my hatred of the bodgie
and his strain.
But old Leo winked an eyelid, and his silence
spoke a piece—•
Then he said: “They’ll all be Diggers if the
bugle calls again.”
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled
and Blended in
Scotland
■■
%
1
i i
m
s
.
m
m
. m
m
/
STILL TOP OF THE CLASS
After more than eleven years of continuous presenta-
tion, the sprightly, well informed “Quiz Kids” are
still tops in entertainment —and their popularity still
grows! Compered by knowledgeable John Dease, the
“Quiz Kids,” brought to you with the compliments of'
Johnson and Johnson, come to your home each
Sunday evening at 7.30. (Except 3AW/CV —Fridays
at 8.30.)
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR, 2MW, 2LF, 2PK, 2MG, 2WL, 2LT, 2CA, 3CV, 4GY,
6WB/MD/BY, 7LA and many other commercial broadcasting
Produced by stations in Australia.
“Bass”: Larry, a full-blood aboriginal
of Derby (W.A.), has been awarded a
Coronation medal, and it’s one of the
most popular awards made. As a kid
Larry was helped by the police, took a
liking to the force and joined it as a
tracker. The men with whom he’s worked
respect him as a tracker and as a man,
and more than one policeman owes his
life to Larry’s courage and intelligence.
Recommendation for the honor came
from an officer of the Native Welfare
Department. Larry’s an example of what
a black man can be when he’s expected
only to equal the white man —not imitate
him.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Mat’s Aussie Rules player
who couldn’t play but made things
awkward for those who thought they
could (B. 10/6/’53) might have been a
cousin to the cricketer my cobber Wally
tried to recruit. Wal was the skipper of
the hamlet’s 11 —or rather, 10, as it
turned out when the roll was called at
the scene of play. The home team sport-
ingly waited half an hour to see if the
absentee would turn up, but after that
they began
to grow
i m p atient.
Wally was
r e luctantly
deciding to
field one
short when
he sighted
a lone
s p e c t ator
leaning on
the paddock rails. He strode across and
asked: “Care for a game, sport?” The
lanky youth shook his head: “No thanks,
mate.” Wal pressed. “We’re down one
man ; it’d make the game more interest-
ing if we had a full team.” “Aw, cripes,
I can’t play cricket,” protested the long-
’un. “Well, we’re all mugs,” came the
persuasive reply. “You’ll probably be
as good as most of us.” “ Tain’t very
likely,” grinned Lanky. “I never played
the game in me life.” “Never?” asked
Wal, shocked. “Not even at school?”
“No; I don’t know the first thing about
it,” insisted the youth. Then his face
brightened with a sporting offer. “Tell
you what I will do, though—l’ll umpire
for y’!”
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Harbel”: Sand is, as “Salmon Gums”
(B. 24/6/ ’53) says, the best foundation
for buildings. But there are two reserva-
tions; The sand must be contained —dry
sand will run, and if it can pour away
to a lower level from under a foundation,
something disastrous must happen.
Excess of water, too, can take away the
stability of sand underlying a foundation.
Damp sand will pack tightly, but flooded
sand will turn to a slurry, and if that
happens, the building standing on the
soupy mess has about as much chance of
remaining firm and solid as it would have
it it were built on quicksand.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: When the first
suburb of Kwinana, W.A.’s oil-refinery
town, was named Medina there was a
kick from a lot of people who thought it
should have been called Peel. That name
had been considered, but it’s used twice
as a town-name in the eastern States
and both the P.M.G.’s Department and
the W.A. Lands Department bucked.
There’s enough confusion already, and
they won’t stand for further duplication.
Medina was the name of one of the first
ships to arrive from England after the
founding of the colony in 1829, and it’s
proposed to name future suburbs after
other ships. The problem of naming
roads and streets in Kwinana is being
settled along similar lines. Aboriginal
names were suggested, but were dropped
hurriedly when someone translated them.
The streets will be called after settlers
who came out in some of the first ships.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: An investigating native-
affairs officer has found that several
tribes. of the eastern goldfields and
the Nullarbor Plain are uniting into
one tribe with uniform laws. The natives
come from around the Warburtons,
Mulga Queen, Cosmo Newbery, Leonora,
Kalgoorlie, the Trans-line and the Nul-
larbor to beyond the South Australian
border. That covers a big area and a lot
of tribes, and their amalgamation could
be important, particularly as there are
two huge native reserves in that locality.
One in W.A. covers 19,000,000 acres,
including the Warburton Ranges, The
other, in S.A., contains 28,000 square
miles and includes the Petermanns.
There’s a lot of fine grazing land in these
reserves, plenty of game, and, though
most of the country isn’t auriferous it
could hold a lot of minerals which are
more precious than gold. It would be a
curious twist of fate if these native tribes
combine, become educated, and find
themselves in possession of enough
uranium to buy out the white man.
There’s only one catch. They’d probab|y
have enough sense to leave the stuff m
the ground.
* ♦ * ♦
“Kelms”: A German firm is offering
£175 a ton for as much manna-gum as
W.A. can supply. When I was a
kid we called it wattle-gum, and we
knocked it in lumps off wattle-trees and
ate it. In W.A. it’s found on only a
certain type of wattle—a shrub which
never grows to more than about 10ft. and
hangs around creeks and soaks in parts
of the south-west corner. It gathers on
“ Listen, boss, I like plenty of elbow-room when I drink.”
the limbs and trunks in hard lumps. It’s a
close relation to gum arabic, which
comes from a tropical-Africa acacia and
is used for much the same purposes —in
adhesives, in silk and rayon printing, as
a thickening agent in some prepared
foods and in medicines, and so on. These
gums are formed by the decomposition
of cellulose, in a process which no one
knows much about but which is called
gummosis. It’s suspected that in wattles
the process is caused or helped by bac-
teria. During the war some W.A. firms
which needed more glue than they could
buy collected the gum and dissolved it in
water. It’s completely water-soluble.
The price the Germans are offering sug-
gests they’ve found a new use for it.
“P.K.”: Employed by a Victorian
timber firm as climber, complete with
spurs and harness, my job was to walk
up selected ash-trees and cut them oft at
a height of 100 ft. or more prior to attach-
ing guy-ropes and hanging bull-block
for the high-lead log-hauling system.
Cutting the tree all around instead of
the usual front and back scarf greatly
reduced chance of leverage and jar
splitting the trunk as the top part of the
tree fell. In free ash a split might extend
30ft. to 40ft. down, the two halves of the
trunk at axecut opening out 10ft. or so
while things are moving. This, of course,
breaks the rope that goes around climber
and tree, also crushes him before he starts
on the long drop. With a series of loud
claps the trunk then comes together again
and all is silent on the timber front.
Quick thinking saved me in one such
case —when the top gave there was a loud
pop and the crack was inches wide, as
with one desperate blow I cut my rope,
burying the axe to the eye in the soft
ash, grabbed it by the head and clung.
Rode the storm out, and when the
arboreal applause died down was able to
work myself astride the high stump and
join rope for an orderly descent. But
I don’t go climbing now —pinching
oranges behind a pub at Cooktown, I
was attacked by green ants. A nasty
fall —nerves never the same since.
MOSS
Where stones lie green in the damp,
The trees bend with the cramp
And their limbs stretch out for breath,
Where logs are sunk in death.
Where the soil frets and weeps,
The leprous toadstool creeps.
The creek hides and buries its head
Where leaves lie black and dead.
Where vines like spiders crawl
And the festered limbs fall,
Where the sun sickens: alone
The blind moss grows on the stone.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Ordering 5heiry, Sweet ?
sd
IS
FOR SAFE
“COTSWOLDGLENHAVEN RD., CASTLE HILL
30 min. from G.P.0., Sydney, in select area, magnificent views,
TUDOR BRICK 4-B.R. RESIDENCE. W-to-w. carpets, blinds,
city water, electric light, ’phone, septic.
Also COTTAGE, part fnrn., 4 rooms, tennis court, nice garden,
sheds, 9$ acres good land. £16,000. Telephone, UW 2491.
This giant Mill solves Australia's
SHEET STEEL problem
w
rrxrmrm
As far back as 1946, Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division foresaw the
day when there would be
acute shortages of sheet steel
for cars, refrigerators, ranges
and general industrial needs.
It was then that Lysaght’s first
planned the installation of a
Cold Reduction Mill which
could roll upwards of 80,000
tons of the highest grade
sheet steel a year.
The Mill, in 00-ordinated pro-
duction with other C.R.M.
rolling plant, can today supply
all the fine sheet steel that
Australian industry requires.
It enables manufacturers of
fine products having shpet
steel structure to give speedier
delivery than has been pos-
sible for many years past.
a
a
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY, LIMITED
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY.
LIMITED GENERAL SALES
AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie
Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Claren-
don Street, South Melbourne.
ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street
FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and
Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON,
N.Z.: John Lysaght’s Bristol Works
Limited.
CR2A-53
Business.Rollery.Etc.
THE BUDGET AND INDUSTRY
In planning his Budget for
1953-54 Treasurer Fadden
should keep firmly at the back
of his mind two things—firstly,
that Australia is industrially
backward (largely because of
shortsighted trade - unionism),
and secondly, because of
the division of Federal and
State powers in industrial
matters (such as wages and
working hours), industry as an
economic producer is subject to
a heavy handicap. Yet our in-
dustrial machine, such as it is,
is called on to carry a huge
burden in the way of social
services and socialised public
utilities. It is the victim of
politically-aimed State price-
control.
It is undoubtedly true that
Australian industry, as a whole,
nowadays is not reproducing
itself and expanding itself
from ploughed - back profits
or from distributions reinvested
by shareholders. There have
been very heavy calls made upon
the investing public for in-
dustrial funds in recent years, in
some cases (notably the C.S.R.)
the board considering that the
prospect of immediate profit-
earning had fallen so low, and
the incidence of taxation had
risen so high, that it was better
to otfer 5 p.c. debentures than
increase the share-capital by the
amount required to finance
business expansion.
Though in the United States
company taxation is at a rate
rather higher than in Australia,
the astonishing fact is that
during the six years to 1951 U.S.
private industry spent $178,000
million (57 p.c. on fixed assets,
20 p.c. on stock-increases and
23 p.c, on other assets), and
only 4 p.c. was financed by the
issue of new shares and 20 p.c.
by external finance. No less
than 35 p.c. of the total was met
out of retained profits, 22 p.c,
from depreciation allowances
and 19 p.c. from increases in
specific reserves. In other words,
two-thirds of the great post-war
expansion of U.S. industry was
paid for out of internal finance.
Australia cannot parallel that
performance. Profits have been
too low, taxation too high, in-
flation in costs too great.
Treasurer Fadden’s concern
will mainly be with taxation and
the need for production incen-
tives. He could make a good
start by abolishing payroll-tax,
a levy born as a compromise
and expedient and which is the
opposite to an incentive. He
should then give the utmost
attention to this great Aus-
tralian problem of industrial re-
equipment and expansion. In
Britain Mr. Butler’s April
Budget restored the system of
making initial, taxation allow-
ances on the cost of new plant.
The Fadden Budget might well
do the same. The Butler Budget
also reduced the standard rate
of company tax to 9s. in the £.
The Australian rate on com-
pany income in excess of £5OOO
is already at that figure, but
Britain’s taxes have been tra-
ditionally severe.
In 1952 Canada’s Finance
Minister, Douglas C. Abbott,
said;
Quite frankly, I am concerned that
conditions make it necessary to
maintain in our tax-structure rates
as high as this on business profits.
My main concern is not with the
current year or even, possibly, with
next year. The ill effects of too-
high taxes can perhaps he endured
for a year or two. But as I said
last year, excessive rates of tax on
corporate incomes, if long main-
tained, can do grave damage to the
economy as a whole, and I say quite
candidly that if I had more leeway
for tax-abatement it is to income-
taxes, both corporate and personal,
that I would give first consideration.
From the first of this month
personal income-tax rates in
Canada drop by an average of
11 p.c. In addition, where in-
come is from dividends paid by
Canadian corporations, a 20 p.c.
credit is allowed (raised from
10 p.c.), the purpose being to
reduce double-taxation of cor-
porate earnings and encourage
Canadian investment in
Canadian enterprise.
On corporations, in his 1953
Budget, Mr. Abbott reduced the
tax-rate on earnings over
$20,000 to 47 p.c. This is still
slightly above the Australian
rate, but Canadian industry is in
a much stronger position than
Commonwealth industry. And
the 20 p.c. tax-rebate on Can-
adian dividend incomes has no
parallel in present-day Australia.
It is retained profits, however,
that are of greatest importance
to Australian industry at pre-
sent, though without a reason-
able return to investors, after
payment of tax, there will be
little encouragement for indus-
trial expansion through invest-
ment.
The exhaustion of savings,
and the inadequate margin of
production over consumption in
Australia, augur badly for the
future of industry. In our
country we face the same prob-
lem which Mr. Abbott speaks of
in Canada, only here, because of
the fall in productivity, the prob-
lem is more acute.
Our own Treasurer should
have observed that the Com-
monwealth Government, instead
of building city departmental
offices for itself, has resorted to
the practice of buying or leas-
ing buildings already erected. In
Sydney the taking-over of the
Grace Building is a case in
point. The reason behind this
sort of action is that there are
not sufficient resources in our
economy at present to carry out
large building programmes.
Of course, the problem is not
one entirely for the Treasury.
Wages and hours of work are
matters outside its scope, and
the low level of man-hour pro-
duction in Australia is the prin-
cipal reason for our inadequate
material and financial resources
at present. But the Treasury can
encourage increased mechanisa-
tion (through greater tax-free
depreciation allowances) and so
speed-up output. And it can
look with a more kindly eye on
savings and income from sav-
ings when shaping its taxation
policy. The time is surely long
past when there should be any
idea of trying to justify a higher
rate of tax on property income
as compared with earnings from
personal exertion.
In his Budget speech of
February this year Canadian
Finance Minister Abbott said:
Income-tax rates, if too high, can
do harm in many directions. Tax
laws should avoid placing too great
a penalty on successful effort.
Every reasonable incentive should be
given to people to work hard, move
to better-paid jobs, take risks and
expand their business without keep-
ing one eye continually on the tax-
gatherer. This is particularly im-
portant in a growing and expanding
country such as ours, where there
is so much to be accomplished.
In Australia there is just as
much to be accomplished, but
we are not trying to do it so
vigorously. Full credit must be
given to the Menzies-Fadden
Government for improving the
position over the past 18 months.
Its emergency economic policy
and its secret-ballot legislation
have had a great deal to do with
a better hourly rate of produc-
tion in many industries and a
quicker turn-round of shipping.
But much more has yet to be
achieved, and a long-term policy
adopted. In that policy the in-
cidence of taxation as it affects
production incentives and sav-
ings must be given deep and
earnest consideration.
Oil and the Bureau
“P. Mobile”: The special
pleading for the Bureau of
Mineral Resources by “Beadon-
ite” (B. 3/6/’53) would have
carried more conviction had he
mentioned even one attempt to
produce oil by that body which
has not been both costly and
profitless; it is unnecessary to
catalogue its abortive attempts
to develop unsuitable areas.
Everyone interested in the
advance of Australia will hope
that the operations now being
carried on by the W.A.
Petroleum Co. in the Exmouth
Gulf area will result in prolific
oil-production. But surely
“Beadonite” does not seriously
claim that the bureau was the
first to recognise the existence of
commercially-interesting thick-
nesses of marine strata in
the North - west Basin, or
that its officers did anything
more than elaborate the work
previously carried out by pro-
fessional oil-geologists? The
statement that “bureau officers
were struck with the similarity
of this region to certain parts
of Wyoming and Montana” is
interesting, as this method of
scenic evaluation of potential
oil-structures had been aban-
doned by experienced oil-
geologists by the early 1920’5.
The opinion expressed by
“Beadonite” that “in the Kim-
berleys work by bureau officers
... . has caused the major com-
panies to alter their whole atti-
tude to this area” runs counter
to the news that the bureau’s
report on its five-year recon-
naissance in that area has been
destroyed by fire and will take
a year to “reconstruct” from
memory.
The secretary of the Depart-
ment of National Development,
in the defence of the bureau’s
policy at the inquiry by the
Public Accounts Committee on
July 9, said that it would cost
£500,000 to put the bureau’s idle
and unused £320,000 drilling-
plant into operation in the Kim-
berleys. Now that a W.A.P.
field-party was carrying out a
reconnaissance there, the justi-
fication for the bureau to do the
work had vanished. He stated,
also, that the other partners in
the Kimberley venture (presum-
ably the W.A. Government and
the Freney-Kimberley Co.) had
expressed a wish to withdraw
their financial support.
The secretary’s allusion to his
critics as “gambling with a
double-headed penny” was un-
fortunate, as the metaphor is
particularly apt under the cir-
cumstances, the bureau’s lack of
experience in the oil gamble
having caused it invariably to
shout “tails.”
The Search For Oil
A final word from R. Richard-
son, of Papuan Apinaipi;
Oilfields throughout the world are
being tested and production obtained
at less than a fifth. of the cost pre-
viously experienced by the Papuan
Apinaipi Company, under conditions
imposed, and by other operators in
Papuan oilfields.
In the oilfields of Dutch New
Guinea a number of separate fields
are being tested and commercial pro-
duction is being, or has been, ob-
tained from all of them. Only one
mobile drilling-unit is being used on
each field. On one field 22 bores
have been drilled, 17 producing, and
5, although producing-wells, have
been “shut in.” According to 1952
oil journals the restricted production
is 4600, barrels a day, equal to over
a million gallons a year.
Metropolitan Cement
Metropolitan Cement
£1 shares have weakened to
6s. The co. has certain
transport advantages over
some of its competitors,
but it must still be find-
ing the going very uphill.
Interest and depreciation
charges on the undertaking,
if charged at usual rates, will
be a large poultice, and it
has other problems. Com-
petition in the N.S.W. trade
is returning, with price-
variations. Metropolitan’s
accounts to December 31
last are still awaited, there
being as much interest in the
probable size of the over-
draft as in the probable trad-
ing results. The co. has had
more than its share of poli-
tical blessing from “Labor”
Governments, but, in the
absence of more, share-
holders are likely to wait a
long time before a dividend
is sighted.


mm
p
STEP INTO A.N.Z BANK-
O -
wr
The busy man steps confidently into A.N.Z. Bank.
Time is important to him and he knows
that A.N.Z. Bank is organised to give
efficient service quickly.
A-N-Z
"•X
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
ANZ. 17. 31461
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
—TO ALL SIX CONTINENTS
x?
*
2 X
/
You can book to almost anywhere in the
world by 8.0.A.G. Speedbird Services —
on one ticket all the way. Your 8.0.A.G.
Agent makes no charge for expert advice
and trip-planning help.
sd
Book from Australia to INDONESIA
BURMA . THAILAND * MALAYA
HONG KONG . JAPAN . CEYLON
INDIA • PAKISTAN* MIDDLE EAST
AFRICA*EUROPE*GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A.• CANADA* CENTRAL AND
SOUTH AMERICA. BERMUDA
fl MOM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas Empire
Airways Limited (8.0.A.C. General Agents in Australia).
For Post Haste without waste—use Overseas Air Mall
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
AAtUAU
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Butter and Wage-rates
By steady annual rises, the
latest of 4 p.c., or 12s. per cwt.,
N.Z. has more than doubled its
butter-export price in the post-
war years, and should make a
good thing out of the trade at
3265. per cwt. in the new season
just beginning, if production
keeps moving along as it has
been for years past.
Although N.Z. cowspankers
won’t be happy until they’re
abreast of the Danes on the
British market, they’re fairly
well satisfied with having
narrowed the gap down to
17s. 6d. per cwt. as a result of
their June talks with John Bull.
Eight years ago they were
selling their butter for a mere
150 s. 6d., but the real gain isn’t
as great appears, after taking
account of the 1949 fall in sterl-
ing (from 4 dollars to 2.80) and
the big change in prices of manu-
factured goods.
If anything, a ton of N.Z.
butter is worth less when con-
verted into imports at present
prices than it was in 1945, and
the little country has lost
ground in its terms of trade.
Still, a run of bountiful sea-
sons, to back up N.Z.’s highly
efficient production system, has
brought prosperity, in spite of
the handicap. The cow popula-
tion of 1,900,000, not quite equal
to the number of Maorilanders
(now a shade over 2 million),
put £lOO million into M.L.
pockets, in one form or another
—butter, cheese, town-supply
milk and dried-milk—in the
latest season, which was easily
a record, and this should be
lifted by at least £5 million in
the current twelvemonth.
One of the knotty problems is
whether or not the gain belongs
to the dairy industry, or should
go round. Wage-earners want
a cut in it, and are relying on
the trend of export income as
their strongest argument for a
general rise. Export prosperity
is a direct cause of wage-price
inflation, and experience has
shown that there’s a rigidity in
the wage structure which makes
it difficult to adjust things the
other way when world prices
turn downward.
Wage-earners might be better
off in a downward cycle, barring
unemployment, but this isn’t
likely to be a real issue yet
a while. The immediate ques-
tion is the right of workers in
the towns to share fifty-fifty in
extra millions netted from ex-
ports. If these millions were to
be a general handout, regard-
less of who does the work,
workers could be even more
pampered than in past years. As
the need for incentive comes
into the calculation, and N.Z.’s
most reproductive industries are
those based on the land, there’s
no doubt where the maximum
possible economic advantage
lies, and it’s plain that the
greatest contribution that can
be made to sterling recovery is
in export expansion, not in lift-
ing still higher the standard of
living of the already comfort-
ably-clothed and -fed N.Z.
worker.
The standard of work, not the
standard of living, is what
matters most in the new condi-
tions of today.
The Kawerau Project
Spending will be at a rate of
anything up to a million a month
on N.Z.’s pulp-and-newsprint
project for the next couple of
years to get production going
under the “full-steam-ahead”
signal given by the Government
at the beginning of July. Con-
struction of the outsize Kawerau
mills, a port at Mount Maunga-
nui, railways, roads, electric-
power plant and purchase of
millions’-worth of overseas
plant, which will all run into
£27 million, on present esti-
mates, is the most ambitious
undertaking yet in the little
country, and will be as much as
State and private enterprise to-
gether can push through in the
time, if all goes well.
To keep everything in line,
the Government has appointed
E. R. McKillop, Commissioner
of Works, co-ordinator and
supervisor of operations, and
has postponed his pending re-
tirement indefinitely. Mr. Mc-
Killop has been on the inside in
planning, both as a Govern-
ment executive and a director of
the Tasman Pulp and Paper
Co.’s provisional board, which
has put in more than twelve
months’ solid work behind the
scenes. Contracts have been let
abroad for the main items of
plant and equipment, but N.Z.
hasn’t been told yet how it will
all be paid for.
However, the high reproduc-
tive value of the whole project,
from a sterling as well as local
point of view, leaves little doubt
that the money should be there
when the bills come in. A care-
fully thought-out timetable will
be the best safeguard against
capital or plant lying idle for
more than a minimum time, and
to bring all the ends together to
start production on a com-
mercial scale, if possible, in the
final quarter of 1955. The
target is 75,000 tons of news-
print, 72 million board-feet of
sawn timber and 36,000 tons of
kraft and pulp yearly, a size-
able part of the total earmarked
for export to Australia and to
any other markets offering.
A year before this goal is
reached a running-in stage will
begin, to get teams into prac-
tice extracting logs from the
Kaingaroa forest, and to try out
the transport system. Canadian,
Swedish and other experts have
been giving the planners the
benefit of their advice, after a
close-up look at things, and
Yankee experts are directing
construction. When the time
comes New Zealanders will be
trained to take up key posts.
At Kawerau a town is spring-
ing up to house 3000-odd
workers and their families at
the word go, and double that
number later.
Cement Co. Finance
Post-war austerity in the
cement trade in N.Z. should
ease off from next year on-
wards as new plants make their
weight felt and the country
works up to its production-tar-
get of half a million tons a year.
This will be nearly double pre-
sent capacity and enough to put
N.Z. in the lead in a per-capita
comparison with other coun-
tries.
If the industry has been un-
lucky to run into peak costs in
girding itself to rid N.Z. of one
of the worst of its construction
bottlenecks, at least it has the
prospect of operating more-or-
less at capacity for a long time
to cope with pent-up demands
for projects like hydroelectric
dams, bridges, wharves, mills,
factories, city buildings and
other lesser schemes. MX. has
a lot of leeway to make up in
construction, on top of which
current and future needs should
leave no doubt about the out-
look for cement.
To fill the gap in supplies
temporarily it has been buying
abroad at the rate of 150,000
tons annually over the past
couple of years and paying
fancy prices to keep things mov-
ing. Today the cos, in the in-
dustry are busy extending their
plant out of the proceeds of
£1,325,000 of new capital and
premiums.
Pumice-lands
The wide pumice-lands
in the heart of the North
Island, once regarded as a
write-off in an otherwise
highly-fertile country, now
seem destined to open up
vistas of prosperity. In the
early 1920’s hundreds of
thousands of acres were
planted in pines and other
exotics which will provid
the raw material needed for
softwood, pulp and news-
print industries today in the
making, and next, in the late
1930’5, “bush sickness” was
conquered by the simple
process of mixing cobalt
with fertiliser. In a
decade the value of
almost worthless farms in
the pumice country soared
to levels which made the
owners as prosperous as any
in the Waikato. Research is
continually exploring new
prospects. One of the latest
hints is that pumicite from
the Waikato Valley might
replace 25 p.c. to 35 p.c. of
the cement normally used
for making concrete. As this
could save 100,000 tons of
cement yearly it could bring
a sizeable cut in N.Z.’s
inflated building costs, at the
same time economising
transport and otherwise
helping to speed-up con-
struction. The pumice is
close to the scene of most
of N.Z.’s big projects, in
contrast to cement.
Lagging Loan
Like other machinery,
that of the loan market per-
forms best when regularly
used. If Maorilanders had
any doubts about this they
should be wiser now, after
floating the first national
(and conversion) loan (£2o'
million) for a couple of
years. The issue dragged
from the start and hadn’t
much to spare when it
closed after a five-weeks
run. In mid-’5l a 3 p.c. rate
was magnet enough to
attract £l3 million, which
was more new money than
went into the latest flotation,
at £3 19s, p.c., the difference
being accounted for by con-
verted 2\ p.c. 1940 war-loan
scrip. Yet there was £3O
million less money in Maori-
land two years ago, and at
least that much less lying to
the credit of thrifty Maori-
landers in the savings
banks, at a mere 2} p.c.
What with record savings
and a big accumulation of
funds at call in the trading
banks, the loan should have
floated like a cork. It can
be taken for granted that the
next loan will have to be
offered on more attractive
terms.


SYDNEY.
Offices aI:
WAGGA WAGGA.
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73.000,000.
Protection of your assets
MANY men, and women, of means appoint Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited as Agent or Attorney,
during their absence from the State—during ill-health—
and at other times, for other reasons.
Thus, while they retain control of their assets, they
are relieved of the worry and trouble involved in the
management of their business affairs.
The wide experience of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited, its organization and facilities, assure wise and
efficient management of assets of every kind entrusted
to it.
A Senior Officer will gladly give you any informa-
tion you desire as to how the Company’s services can
conserve and protect your assets. Ring B 0377 or
write —and make an appointment. If you prefer, ask
that particulars be sent to you.
-DIRECTORS:
Hon, T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. K. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
Year , Dividends N
Ended Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £ £
1945.106,031 8000 17* p.c.= 87,500 10,631 287,893
1946.106.271 8000 18i „„ 93,750 4,521 292,414
1947.130,843 8000 20 ~,,100,000. 22,843 315,257
From inner reserves, £14,000 .. .. 329,258
From tax reserve, £70,000 .. .. 399,258
1948.158,651 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 50,651 449,909
1949.162,417 8000 20 „ „ 100,000 54,417 504,327
Revaluation N.Z. properties, £24,759.. 529,086
Currency exchange profit, £20,434 .. 549,520
1950.152,449 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 44,449 593,969
Revaluation land & buildings, £125,241 719,210
Capitalised, £150,000 .. .. • .. 569,210
1951.172,185 8000 20 p.c.= 130,000 34,185 603,395
1952.227,795 8000 20 ~ ~ 130,000 89,795 693,190
1953.182,579 8000 22*„ „ 146,250 28,329 721,519
The extra 2 \ p.c. to the ords,, making a
juicy 22| p.c. for the year, was a special
bonus to commemorate the centenary of
the foundation of the business. It was in
Melbourne in 1853 that Alexander
Gordon, a 63-year-old Scotsman, took
then-24-year-old John Speedily Gotch,
who had just arrived from England after
a short stay in New York, into partner-
ship in his small newspaper- and advertis-
ing-agency business. Six years later
Gordon retired, leaving Gotch the sole
proprietor. He remained in control until
his death in 1901, and was joined in the
venture meanwhile by relatives and
friends. The business expanded steadily
in scope, and gradually spread to all the
Australian States and New Zealand,
separate cos. being formed to handle acti-
vities at Sydney and Brisbane.
The present co., biggest of its kind in
the Commonwealth, took over the scat-
tered businesses in 1919, and has since
followed a careful and progressive policy,
financially and otherwise. It is a large
importer of books, periodicals, newsprint
and other papers and printers’ requisites,
and does a considerable turnover in the
wholesale newsagency and advertising
business as well.
It has never failed to pay a div„
and, for the most part, has ploughed
more back into the business than
it distributed to shareholders. It was
able thus to finance expansion mostly out
of surplus earnings, and to gather some
rich harvests during the post-war boom,
when turnover bounded along in the
wake of inflation and an expanding
market for a growing volume of local and
imported publications, etc.
Profits shot up from £106,031 in 1945
to £227,795 in 1952, an increase of over
114 p.c. During the same period the div.
climbed from \l\ p.c. to 20 p.c., and was
sweetened with £150,000 of bonus-scrip
in June, 1950. That lifted paid capital
(steady at £600,000 for the preceding 30
years) to £750,000 in ss. shares, of which
400,000 are 8 p.c. cumulative prefs. and
the balance ords.
Last term a drop in turnover, following
import restrictions and trade recession,
combined with buoyant operating costs
and fall in prices for newsprint and other
papers, which necessitated the writing-
down of stocks by an unstated amount,
ate into net earnings. The parent’s own
accounts showed a profit of £182,579
(down £45,216). Excluding the recently-
formed New Zealand subsidiary, the com-
bined profit of parent and other offshoots
was £198,557 (down £41,812), or sufficient
to pay the parent’s pref. div. and show
29.3 p.c. on its £650,000 of ord. capital as
against 35.7, 29.2, 28.8, 30.8 and 24.5 p.c.
back to 1948. The N.Z. co. (paid capital
£300,000) netted £N.Z.39,916 (down
£N.Z.5624), but paid no div., money being
wanted “to strengthen the financial posi-
tion there.” It all gives the parent’s
20 p.c. div. a comfortable look.
And the financial position (parent’s
accounts) is snug, too:
Mar.,’sl. Mar.,’s2. Mar.,’s3.
Paid capital .. £750.000 £750,000 £750,000
Creditors .. .. 716,675 791,622 636,616
Tax reserve .. .. 208,083 460,841 447,836
Fipal divs 69,000 69,000 85,250
Freeholds .. .. 300,247 312,675 340,441
Plant, etc 29,174 37,656 46,542
Shares subsid. .. 336,785 336,785 336,785
Stock .. .. 417,043 825,202 434,345
Book debts .. .. 814,951 1,131,447 937,979
Cash, etc 448,953 120,899 545,129
Last term’s reductions in stocks (down
£390,857) and debtors’ balances (down
£193,468) were accompanied by a con-
traction in the creditors item (down
£155,006), marked strengthening of the
cash holding, etc. (up £424,230) and addi-
tion to fixed assets (up £36,652).
The steadying of paper prices, further
easing of import restrictions and satis-
factory outlook for trade generally favor
a stronger showing at next balance. The
return from the ords. at 20s. 6d. (19s. 6d.
a year ago) is 4.9 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.5 p.c. should the Tl\ p.c. dis-
tribution be continued. The prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change. Net tangible
cover (parent’s accounts only) is 9s. lOd.
a share —both classes of scrip rank equally
for capital.
Swallow & Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Dividends ■. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£> £ £ £
1948.. 66.910 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 41,910 294,381
To staff fund, £5500 288,881
From tax reserve, £22,018 .. ..310,899
Reduction reserves, £2371 .. .. 308,528
1949.. 60.377 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 36,377 344,905
To staff fund, £5500 339,405
Deferred expenditure, £lOB6 .. .. 338,319
1950.. 62.475 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,000 38,475 376,794
To staff fund, £5500 371,294
Sale assets, £1305 372,599
Deferred expenditure, £1260 .. ..371,339
1951.. 97,890 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 67,890 439,229
To staff fund, £5500 433,729
Tax arrears, £7848 .. .. .. 425,881
Net surplus sale assets, £3255 .. 429,186
Deferred expenditure, £1973 .. .. 427,163
1952.. 58,427 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 28,427 455,590
To staff fund, £4500 451,090
Loss on sale assets, £1314 .. .. 449,776
1953.. 65.084 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 30,000 35,084 484,860
To staff fund, £3310 481,550
Reserves subject to £42,398 of goodwill at 30/4/’53.
The co.’s shares are one of the few stocks
which have shown an appreciable capital
gain, and consequent lower yield, over the
last 12 months. There is £300,000 of capi-
tal to feed, of which £lOO,OOO carries a
cumulative 6 p.c. and advances with the
ords. in any distribution beyond that rate,
and shares in surplus assets. At April 30
last it had the support and assistance of
£481,550 of reserves. Last week both
classes of shares fetched 395. 6d. in the
market, the return being 5 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. A year ago the figures
were 31s. 6d. and 6.2 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is 525. Id. per share.
Chief factors responsible for the ad-
vance in price were the strengthening of
net earnings, their wide margin over the
•dividend rate, a sound financial structure
and the way the business is shaping. It
was mainly bigger and more profitable
trading by the new Tasmanian biscuit-
making subsidiary, C. D. Haywood Pty.,
following installation of additional plant,
which put the spring of £6657 in com-
bined net earnings. This old-established
Tasmanian business was taken over by
S. and A. a couple of years ago, when
the holding in subsidiaries (now £121,782)
increased by £93,775 and a goodwill item
of £42,393 showed up in the consolidated
accounts.
The parent co., which makes plum-
puddings, biscuits and cakes, etc., and is
responsible for the bulk of combined net
earnings, was able to keep its own profit
(£40,402, up £222) on a relatively qven
keel, although sales —they fell away
during the first half of the term but im-
proved later —were below the previous
year’s level. The Dandenong subsidiary,
which sold its dehydration plant at a
profit during the previous term and
installed wafer-making equipment, reports
a slightly higher profit. The ice-cream
subsidiary, which has been a regular
dividend-payer, contributed less, owing
to rising costs and reduced sales.
Combined gross profit showed an im-
provement of £62,146:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit. . £320,648 £458,372 £477,377 £539,523
Exes.* . . 258,173 360,482 418,950 474,489
Net .. £97,890 £58,427 £65,084
* Includes provision for depreciation and taxation.
A tight hold was kept upon outgoings,
exes, (up £55,489), taking 87.9 p.c. of
gross profit as against 87.8 p.c. for the
previous year. The net profit (up £6657)
was a satisfactory 21.8 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) compared with
19.4, 32.6, 20.8, 20.1 and 21.9 p.c. back to
1948. The distribution was kept at 10
p.c., of which 3 p.c. is called bonus, leav-
ing over half the year’s net earnings to
plough back into the business.
During the year £72,033 was added to
freeholds and £50,170 to plant, partly in
respect of the Dandenong offshoot, which
is expected to become a more substantial
contributor later on:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953-
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 112,783 111,812 188,810 211.034
Tax reserve.. 38,992 66,108 78,725 l io’-nn
Final divs. .. 15,000 19,500 19,500 19,000
Freeholds .. 114.759 155,451 183.789 255.822
Plant, etc. . . 143,450 175,823 225,718 275,888
Stocks 133,342 178,176 207,490 200,616
Debtors 131,659 155,071 207,831 205,887
Cash etc . . 314,959 224,236 170,905 162,284
Goodwill I! - 42.393 42.393 42.393
Only £22,224 was added to the trade debt,
and the comfortable holding of cash, etc.,
puts the co. in a position to take im-
mediate advantage of any buying oppor-
tunities that offer. The immediate out-
look favors a slight improvement in the
current year’s net earnings.
Pierwood Plastics, Ltd. (Sydney)
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.:?:
£ £ £ £
Share premium, £20,000 .. . • 20,000
1950*. .50,377 12* p.c.= 15,625 34,725 54,407
Capital profit, £1741 56,148
Written off goodwill, £3311 .. .. 52,837
Dec.,
1950 f. .36,841 1250 6* p.c.= 12,562 23,029 75,866
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. • • 85,866
Intangibles written off, £6653 .. .. 79,213
Taxes previous years, £779 .. .• 78,434
1951 ..55,590 5000 10 p.c.= 28,190 22,400 100,834
Intangibles written off, £10,360 .. 90,474
1952 ..14,342 5000 Nil 9,342 99,816
* 12 months, t Six months, t Subject to intangibles,
£39,551 at 31/12/’52.
Before it could get properly into its stride
this newcomer into the plastics-manufac-
turing field was caught with heavy stocks
on a falling market. This and other diffi-
culties, with which the management has
come to grips, are reflected in the collapse
of last term’s net earnings and other
things, including the absence of an ord.
div.
The co. kicked off in June, 1948, when
it took over a small privately-owned
concern and embarked on a big pro-
gramme of development. A year later the
public took 40,000 new £1 ords. at a
premium of 10s. each, lifting paid capital
to £115,000. The figure has since grown
to £487,101 in 100,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs.
(taken by City Mutual Life) and 1,548,404
ords. of ss. each. The additional ords.
were issued partly for cash at par, and
as fully-paids partly in exchange for
minority interests in subsidiaries, and
partly for the Australian rights to pre-
cision casting of a stainless-steel product
known as “stancasting,” handled by the
co.’s tool-making subsidiary, Standard
Tool Co. (Aust.) Pty. For the years
to Dec. 31, 1951, the ords. received divs.
averaging 11.5 p.c., and £100,834 of
reserves had been accumulated to offset
£53,157 of intangibles.
The parent’s new factory at Chatswood
(near Sydney), completed about the
middle of last term, houses what the board
claims to be the largest injection-moulding
plant in the Southern Hemisphere, as well
as the equipment of the toolmaking off-
shoot. Output covers a wide and expand-
ing variety of thermoplastics, ranging
from toys and combs to industrial
requirements, such as radio cabinets,
gramophone records, refrigerator trays
and a multiplicity of customs mouldings.
The chairman says about 70 p.c. of the
lines produced, especially large mould-
ings, could not be imported at competi-
tive prices, and that toys and combs
amount to about only 30 p.c. of present
output. Also the special moulding
machines which the tool co. turns out
primarily for the parent have won an
export market, in which 21 of them sold
last term, mostly in U.S.A., where they
are now being made under licence.
Turnover (amount unstated) improved
slightly last term, thanks to record sales
during the final quarter. But heavier
overhead and operating costs narrowed
profit-margins, and so did sales of stocks
at cut prices. Prices of imported raw
materials had fallen about 45 p.c. below
their 1951 peak in Aug., 1952. Although
some provision had been made for such
a contingency, stocks had to be “heavily”
written down to bring them abreast of
market-values at the close of last
accounts. In addition approximately
£19,000 was set aside against possible
losses on “a large purchase of defective
raw material,” in connection with which
legal action is pending.
After setting aside a further £34,244
(up £7020) for depreciation and £7467
(down £21,135) for taxation, net profit
of the group was £14,342 (down £41,248),
of which £10,360 was used to write off
goodwill arising out of the purchase of
minority shareholdings in subsidiaries.
However, after paying f he pref. div. and
allowing for intangible , the net reserve
position was £12,588 stronger.
Stocks and debtors’ balances receded
by £93,918 and £13,479 respectively:
y June, Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1950. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £251,000 £301,000 £176,300 £487,101
Outside interests 14,561 27,137 12,034
Mortgage - . 37,500 37,600 35,000 35,000
Overdraft . . 69,85 5 6 2,286 282,519 212,227
Creditors, etc.* 97,473 104,115 107,494 150,126
Final divs. .. 9,875 12,563 17,915
Freehold . . 63,859 63,762 99,413 146,704
Plant, etc. .. 164,918 161,622 178,649 182,943
Shares other cos. 1,250 1,250 51,250 73,327
Stocks .. 215,795 292,576 469,907 375,989
Debtors. etc. 48,673 78,238 177,928 164,449
Cash.. .. 2,179 1,135 1,791 1,300
Intangibles . . 18,997 21,883 53,15 7 39,551
* Includes provision for taxation.
Completion of the Chatswood factory
sent fixed assets up by £51,585. While
£70,292 was clipped off the overdraft,
£42,632 was added to the amount coming
to creditors, etc. The addition to capital
(up £10,801), elimination of outside
interests (£12,034 at previous balance) and
growth in shareholdings (up £22,077)
relate mainly to purchase of an American
holding in the tool-making subsidiary.
When the books closed there was 13s. 6d.
of outside money in the business for every
£1 belonging to shareholders.
The current term has opened with a
healthier outlook in respect of demand,
prices and costs. Turnover for the first
four months was more than double the
figure for the corresponding period of the
previous year ; and the board expects that
sales for the whole of 1953 will be at least
40 p.c. greater than for 1952.
Also, since the close of accounts, Pier-
wood and Moldex, Ltd. (Melb.) have
jointly formed a new co., Moldex Injec-
tion Plastics Pty., to take over and operate
Moldex’s injection-moulding department.
The idea is to reduce costs by elimina-
tion of overlapping in production, buying
and selling, and to lessen competition.
Capital of the new co. and the terms of
its deal with Moldex have not been
announced. Moldex, registered in 1947,
has a paid capital of £616,375 in 120,000
£1 5 p.c. prefs. and 1,985,500 ords. of ss.
each. For the year to June 30, 1952, it
recorded a loss of £90,858 as against a
profit of £47,330 for the previous year.
In 1950 and 1951 the ords. got \l\ p.c.,
but nothing since.
At ss. 9d. (6s. 9d. a year ago) Pier-
wood’s f.-p. ss. ords. would return 6 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is ss. 9d. The prefs. are not
dealt in on ’Change.


DAVIES & COLLISOS; Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Anvr.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUIXIVAN
t -u pn uii,
■ t-.r
wade
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
READ OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fit fee
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road,
Caxnperdown, Sydney, N.S.W,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT -OF
TASMANIA — In Divorce,
TO HENRY HERBERT ISAAC formerly
of No. 23 Derwent Park Road in the
State of Tasmania and later of Armadale
in the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a Notice to you *°
appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of DOROTHY ROSE ISAAC of
Derwent Park in Tasmania praying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion and in default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said charges proved and pro-
nounce judgment therein your absence
notwithstanding AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
an appearance must be entered at the
Principal? Registry of the Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Hobart in the State of
Tasmania within thirty days of the pub-
lication of this Notice. Dated this 2nd
day of July, 1953.—H. R. DOBBIB,
Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — IN Divorce.
TO EDWARD JOHN BOURKE, whose
last known address was Linda in the
State of Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a Notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition of
LUCY TERESA BOURKE, of Linda in
Tasmania, married woman praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion In default of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid within thirty days
after the date of this publication, an
appearance must be entered at the Prin-
cipal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —
W. MACKEY, Deputy Registrar.
Tim pn r* 1 t*j
-aiUutUuUuUu
- tiUtfUtfUaUa
w
'Mam
FOR 58
AUSTRALIAN
IHEIMIM
LIFE ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895)
YEARS
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bllgh Streets, Sydney. BWBO6I
TODAYS PROTECTION -TOMORROWS SECURITY
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
m
“Cutting steps.” That was how Sir Edmund
Hillary and the Sherpa guide Tensing climbed Mount
Everest. Steps chipped in the rock and ice took them
to triumph 29,002 feet up to the “roof of the world,”
in an epic feat that will mark 1953 as an historic
year in Man’s conquests.
But I wonder if its full significance has been
borne in on the minds of Australians? Do they see
in this, a figure of their own striving to attain the
heights?
Here is something more than the conquering of
a stubborn peak in the crystal air of a Himalayan
morning. Hillary and Tensing went aloft like the
Greeks on Olympus of old, as runners in a race, their
hands on the lamp of life.
They were roped together, a man from the West
—a man from the East, and if either had faltered
they both would have perished. What an example
of team-work —and what a lesson for the world!
The team-work, of course, went beyond the two
to whom has rightly come the glory. Behind the
victory was an organisation under Sir John Hunt
which was British at its best. The porters, the men
who rushed up to meet the descending conquerors
with emergency oxygen, those who* maintained and
manned.the vital base camps —these also share the
victory.
I think that the bees Edmund Hillary had kept
in New Zealand taught him much. They gave him
stamina, for he had eaten honey most of his life and
took some with him on the expedition. The bees
taught him the virtue of tenacity in labour and of
team-work —and it seems to me they taught him
humility of spirit.
TIMING was also an element in his achievement;
and he had to think, right until the instant when
there were no more steps to cut.
Now, there’s so much in all of this—the timing,
the thinking, the securing of foothold step by step —
that applies to our Australian effort.
I see even the oxygen these men carried, and so
carefully conserved, as a figure of the finance that
must be wisely spent here in development—pounds
and dollars channelled into production and prudently
applied, will be the life-breath of this nation.
Australia is climbing. If everyone of us sets
himself now to CHIPPING STEPS, we’ll come to
the summit.
Motors, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Re-
April, Profits. -Dividends serves.
£ £ £
1947.. 5,770 5 p.c. = 3,750 12,283
Unexplained reduction, £3937.. 8,846
1948.. 14,818 124 p.c. = 11,250 11,914
1949.. 42,703 20 „ „ 20,000 34,61*
Unexplained addition, £336.. 34,953
1950.. 92,416 224 p.c. = 22,500 1 qq 8 69
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j
1951.. 98,216 374 p.c. = 37,500 |
To staff fund, £7500 .. i 151,835
Other provisions, £1250 ..J
Underprovsn. taxation, £9156.. 142,679
1952. .127,475 30 p.c. = 30,000)
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ) 229,904
Other provisions, £250 .. J
1953.. 67,084 30 p.c. = 30,000 |
To staff fund, £2500 .. J-264,238
Other provisions, £250 ..J
The sharp drop of £60,391
(47.3 p.c.) in last term’s net
earnings marks the passing of
the peak of the post-war boom
in the motor trade, and of the
very corpqlent earnings which
accompanied it, as well as the
effects of import restrictions.
Still, at today’s level of demand,
which has recently shown signs
of strengthening a little, and
with a further lift of 10 p.c. in
the import quota of motor
chassis, etc., raising it to 40 p.c.
of the peak level in 1950-51, dis-
tributors of the popular English
makes of motor-vehicles look
like continuing to win fat profits
from the trade. Exactly how
long they will continue to do so
is difficult to say at the moment.
The co. holds the South Aus-
tralian franchises, including
Broken Hill, for Morris, M.G.,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley and Hud-
son-Terraplane cars, Morris
commercial vehicles, Nuffield
tractors and Electrice Refrigera-
tors. Before and during the war
it limped along, showing share-
holders an empty basket more
often than not. Eight of the 12
years to 1946 were dry ones;
divs. for the whole period aver-
aged only 2.8 p.c. For the seven
years to the close of last
accounts divs. averaged 22.5 p.c.,
and reserves shot up from
£10,363 to £264,238, which is
over 2j times the size of paid
capital.
The contraction in last term’s
sales (£1,866,000) was £1,714,000,
or 47.9 p.c. The slip in gross
profit (£292,372) was £166,793,
of which £106,402 was offset by
savings in exes. (£225,288), due
mainly to lighter provision for
taxation (£25,000, down
£100,000). The £67,084 of profit
that remained was 67 p.c. on
capital as against 127.4, 98.2,
92.4, 42.7 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1948. Also the outlook in the
trade is less sticky than it was a
year ago. When the books closed
the co. held 519 firm undelivered
orders for cars and commercial
vehicles, and the queue has
lengthened since, the chairman
says. So the board had no hesi-
tation 'in repeating the 30 p.c.
div.
Balance-sheet figures mainly
reflect the fall in turnover:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors and
deposits .. 174,950 175,600 75,274
Tax provision . . 73,849 168,006 42,355
Other provisions 12,033 8,837 2,941
Staff funds, etc. 16,250 11,132 4,102
Final divs. .. 25,000 17,500 17,500
Freeholds and
machinery, etc. 96,750 103,237 108,816
Stocks .. 195,844 459,221 97,526
Debtors . . 62,200 101,839 61,697
Cash & shares 199,123 46,682 238,371
The reductions of £361,695 in
stocks and of £40,142 in debtors’
balances were accompanied by
a contraction of £100,326 in the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors and a growth of £191,689 in
cash and shares —the latter
comprise the co.’s holding
(£14,766) in a subsidiary, which
handles Wolseley and Riley cars
and the Nuffield tractor. The
need for the co. to carry large
stocks has now been reduced to
some extent by the English
Nuffield organisation setting up
its own body-building and
assembly plant at Victoria Park,
near Sydney.
The co.’s f.-p. £1 shares,
which were fairly steady in the
market around 535. 7d. during
1952, recently sold at 495. 4d.,
at which figure the return is
12.1 p.c. so long as the 30 p.c.
div. continues. Net tangible
cover is 725. lOd.
Takuapa Valley Tin
For the 12 months to Dec. 31,
1952, this Sydney - controlled
Siamese tin-producer, whose two
electrically-driven bucket dredges
operate in the* Takuapa River
area, netted £39,954 (down
£57,547), or 16 p.c. on capital as
against 39 p.c. and 55.9 p.c. for
the two preceding years. The
div. was lowered from 20 p.c. to
15 p.c.:
Ay.
Value 4
Treated, t. 0.. Profit. Div. f
c.y. lb.* £ £
’OOO.
(9.4%)
1949 .. 3355 0.22 15,113 21,222
(124%)
1950 .. 2990 0.43 139,950 31,250
(20%)
1951 .. 2755 0.29 97,501 50,000
(15%)
1952 . . 2681 0.26 39,954 37,500
* Per c.y. f Percentage in stg.
Reduced turnover, slightly
lower-grade ground and fall in
the price of tin were the
troubles.
The largest and most efficient
of the two dredges (No. 2) sank
on Oct. 6, 1952, while the top
tumbler was being changed. It
was refloated on Jan. 23, 1953,
and was to have resumed dig-
ging again on May 16, but elec-
trical trouble has delayed a start.
Together the two machines
recovered 312.56 tons (down
48.11 tons) of tin oxide, which
realised an average of £553.26
(down £66.23) per ton. Mine
working costs were £392.3 (up
£43.3) per ton.
For the six months to June 30
last No-. 1 dredge turned over
690,000 c.y. for 135 tons t. 0., an
average of 0.441 b. per yard, and
the co. paid two divs. of Is. each
in February and May respec-
tively.
When the books closed the co.
was holding cash and invest-
ments totalling £318,123 against
current liabilities of £37,463.
Stores and spares figured at
£78,791, the two dredges at
£11,482, buildings, equipment,
etc., £43,979, and concessions
£156,427 (cost). It is thus well-
equipped to meet the cost (esti-
mated amount unstated) of dis-
mantling, transferring and re-
erecting its two dredges on the
new northern area.
No. 1 dredge is expected to
complete treatment of its present
area (1,970,000 c.y. of 0.401 b.
ground at Dec. 31 last) by the
middle of next year. No. 2 still
has 2,890,000 c.y. to handle, of
which 2,525,000 c.y. average
0.421 b., the balance being unpay-
able. Altogether there is about
11 years’ work ahead of the two
machines.
No. 1 is scheduled to set in on
the northern area before the end
of 1955, and No. 2 should soon
follow it. However, there might
be a short gap in production
before the two machines get
properly into their stride again.
What profits are likely to be won
is anybody’s guess at the
moment; they will depend
mainly upon the relative levels
of production, recoveries, tin
prices and costs.
The London average spot
price of tin (metallic), which was
£5964.5 for 1952, tumbled from
£5957.2 for Jan., 1953, to
£5740.9 for June and to
£5613.7 on July 8. Developments
in Korea, the easing of American
stockpiling, the hand-to-mouth
buying policy of consumers of
the metal, and a number of tech-
nical factors have been respon-
sible for the fall. At the end of
last month the working-party of
the international tin study group
completed its session in Brussels.
Its decisions and recommenda-
tions have not been announced,
but hopes were expressed that
an international agreement on
production and prices might be-
come operative about the end of
this year.
Meanwhile the Sydney markei
prices Takuapa’s f.-p. £1 shares
at par, or thereabouts, as against
265. a year ago.
Western Queen (1936), N.L.,
which recently took over some
570 acres, containing tin and
tantalite alluvium and lode de-
posits, at Greenbushes (W.A.),
has commenced shifting over-
burden, the power-plant is now
functioning satisfactorily, and
the whole treatment-plant is ex-
pected to start up within a week
or two, when some essential
parts for the gravel-pump and
Krupp-mill arrive. Present in-
tention is to treat only the
alluvium, which is reported free
of clay and to present no treat-
ment difficulties. A lot of tin
has been won from this field in
the past, and geologist F. G.
Foreman reported favorably on
the co.’s prospects. Its f.-p. Is.
shares, which had dropped to 7d.
each in 1952, recently fetched
3s. 2d. N
A new prospecting co.. Hill
50 Extended, is being formed
in Melbourne to take over and
develop seven leases covering
about 130 acres adjoining Hill
50 Gold Mine at Mt. Magnet
(W.A.). The prospectus is not
yet available, but a large amount
of development is said to have
been done on some of the leases,
and between 8000 ft. and
10,000 ft. of diamond-drilling is
planned to pick up the expected
extension of Hill 50 lodes. It
is intended to issue 500,000 ss.
shares, to be paid to Is. 6d. each
on application and allotment,
The co. will, thus kick off with
a working capital of £37,500,
less flotation exes.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Rain somewhat marred the magnifi-
cence of the reopening of the Empire
with the Sydney premiere of “South
Pacific” (only a few years after its
premiere in America). Sydney first-
nighters arrived by hundreds in a pro-
cession of luxurious cars, but they mostly
had to leave their vehicles higher up the
street and, bunching up their tulles and
organzas, leap over the running gutters
in silver and gold shoes. The crush in
the foyer was hard on the bouffant
dresses, but once inside the theatre all was
elegance, charm and beauty.
The Empire has been completely re-
modelled in the past five weeks, two false
walls having been erected to cut off those
wide, lonely sections at the sides; new
chairs have been put in throughout and
the boxes widened in such a way that
the two top ones seem to float in the
air. Mr. and Mrs. F. Tait sat in one
of these, Mr. Tait taking a bow before
curtain-rise. (By the way, if you ever
have to sit in one of these boxes, wear
Arctic fox, it’s most effective.) Mr. and
Mrs. Chips Rafferty were in the party
in the other upper box.
In the front row of the dress-circle
were Mr. and Mrs. M. Dekyvere, she
very suitably dressed in a black dinner-
frock with a jet-embroidered jacket, Sue
Playfair in a froth of pink with Mr. Ben
Arnott, Mr. and Mrs. Don Service, Mr.
and Mrs. Selby-Davidson. One of the
most attractively-dressed was Mrs. John
Bovill, who added a white-fox cape to
her dress of fine white wool. Inside
the theatre the premiere had all the
glamor of a fashionable and gracious
occasion, but outside at interval and be-
fore the show the atmosphere was rathe* -
more like that of a Bondi tram at peak
hour.
* ☆ ☆
The Dental Undergraduates and their
friends rolled up 1200 strong to the
Trocadero on Thursday night, and a very
nice-looking lot of people they were,
though horrendous signs of their chosen
profession were not lacking from the
decorations. In the foyer, supported by
gold and blue balloons, a crest
quartered with dentists’ tools-of-trade,
extracted molars, etc ; on the bandstand
were terrifying cut-outs of aboriginal
witch-doctors (to harmonise with the
“Lubra Kate” floor-show which Gerry
Donovan had written and dental students
performed), and a little black doll with
real human teeth was presented to the
Dean of the Faculty of Dentistfy, Pro-
fessor A J. Arnott, who was accom-
panied by Mrs. Arnott and his daughter
Judith.
Peter Kempnich received the guests
with Len Nash and John Duckworth, and
committee-members who entertained
parties included Mrs. James McCormack,
Mrs. Ken Rice, Mrs. John Gaden and
Trixie McGirr. David Wilson, as that
ghoulish Christopher Robin who “kneels
at his grandmother’s bed, digging his
fingernails into her head.,” was very well
applauded. One of the features of the
ball was a pretty lantern-dance, with all
the couples carrying lighted Chinese-
lanterns in the darkened hall.
* ☆ ☆
There was a truly international flavor
at the cocktail-party held by the Com-
panions of the Royal Empire Society on
Thursday last. Shamina and Naima
Rahman, daughters of the new High
Commissioner for Pakistan, were there,
also Zarna Been from Pakistan and her
three brothers, Fazal, Yusef and Robert,
Wanda Freestone (daughter of Sir John
Freestone) and Anne Roberts from Fiji,
Wai Wang, son of the Consul-General
for China, Mercedes Concepcion (the
only woman studying under the Colombo
Plan at the moment), Alito and Costa
Vrisakis, representing Greece, and Denise
Hoertel from Noumea. Strangely
enough, it didn’t seem to resemble the
Tower of Babel any more than the aver-
age cocktail-party these days.
It was really quite delightful to hear
Mr. Henning Hergel speak on “Window
Gardens in Denmark” at the Garden
Club last week. He spent some time in
protesting that he knew next to nothing
about window-boxes, then some more
time in proving it. But he beat about
the bush with such superb irrelevancy
and such goodwill, speaking of the popu-
lation of Denmark, venetian-blinds,
Marco Polo, “the nursing business”
(growing flowers for sale), etc., that he
put everyone in a very good humor and
sent them home much happier, if not
much wiser, after their “interesting lec-
ture,”
☆ ☆ ☆
The fashion for sprinkling gold or
silver “dust” over the hair is' being seen
more and more at dances. The glitter-
ing effect is certainly glamorous, but not
always attractive. A girl at one of the
big dances last week had sprinkled silver
dust all over her neck and shoulders, but
it looked more queer than seductive.
Back from a 10-months trip abroad is
Gay nor Mitchell, well-known for her
work with the Mosman Musical Society
and to be seen in its production of “May-
time,” which opens at the Mosman Town
Hall on July 24 for seven days. While
abroad, she visited Paris, Geneva,
Florence, Venice, Lucerne, Berne and
Cologne, but she lived in London and
spent much of her time seeing the won-
derful theatre productions there. Photo
by Gordon Gilbert.
Learned at the Garden Club meeting
that if the leaves are stripped from poin-
settias three days before they are to be
picked and the stems sealed with hot
water after they are picked they will last
well even in a room with a fire. The
theory is that the three days gives the
plants time to recover from the shock
of losing their leaves. This seems a very
useful hint if one is methodical enough
to plan ahead.
☆ ☆ ☆
Established in 1951, but not yet two
years old, the Headquarters Younger Set
of the N.S.W. Society for Crippled Chil-
dren had reason to be proud of the
cheque for £5OO which they presented to
Mrs. K. F. Coles, wife of the society’s
president, last Saturday at a cocktail-
party at Valentine’s. The money is to
be devoted to endowing a cot in per-
petuity at the Margaret Reid Orthopaedic
Hospital. Two of the original members,
Betty Clarke and Mrs, A. Vane, were
present, also office-bearers Beverley
Grant, Betty Hepworth and June Fawcett,
who made the presentation.
☆ ☆ ☆
The University Drama Festival, which
was such an outstanding success last year,
will this year include the Australian
premiere of Peter Ustinov’s play “The
Indifferent Shepherd,” which will be per-
formed at the Wallace Theatre on
August 1. The festival, to be held from
July 18 to August 6, will open with
“Pygmalion,” and will include German,
French and Italian plays as well as two
operas to be presented by the University
Music Department.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Younger Set of the English
Speaking Union is refreshingly fertile in
ideas for its parties—ghost parties, Li’l
Abner parties. Back to the Twenties
parties and now the Shakspearian Ball
at which Will Shakspeare will act host
to his characters. Glen Ascham is to
be transformed into an Elizabethan re-
ception-room and the furnishings will
include a throne which came from Hamp-
ton Court, London. (Colin Webster,
Astrid Nilssen and Rhona Bates are in
charge of this department.) On the com-
mittee are* Freddie Storch, Noela
O’Shaughnessy, Helen Reed, Eva and
Lilian Herz, and they’re working very
hard, though the ball is not till September
11.
MELBOURNE
Coughing barrages which at times
threatened to swamp even the perfectly-
delivered diction of Messrs. Anthony
Quayle and company were a disturbing
feature of the opening night of “Othello.”
Serenely confident "of her husband’s
ability to cope with this was Mrs.
Anthony Quayle, whose bouffant black
chiffon gown had steel and silver beads
highlighting the bodice. With her were
Colonel Fordham Flower, chairman of
the Shakspeare Memorial Theatre, and
Mrs. Flower, who wore a tiered-skirted
gown of midnight-blue stiffened tulle.
Mrs. Patrick Donnell, whose husband
is manager of the company, wore
a striking gold Chinese - mandarin
coat embroidered in blue, green
and yellow. Archbishop J. J. Booth and
Mrs. Booth were in the official party
with Mr, and Mrs. R. G. Casey, she
wearing a short black dinner-frock, and
the Acting-Premier, Mr. Galvin, and Mrs.
Galvin, whose full-length coat was of
dark-green-and-silver brocade.
A coat of orchid-pink slipper-satin
with a sable collar was worn by Mrs.
Ronald Nott, who was with Myra Davis,
Betty and Sylvia Smith. Mrs. Dick
Noone’s full-length coat, which had
fullness at the back, was of deep-rose
pink faille. Alice Carse’s choice was a
sari gown of apple-green silk tissue. Mrs.
Frank Tait’s strapless full-skirted chiffons
were royal-blue. A Scotch mole stole,
dyed cyclamen, was worn by Reta Find-
lay over a pink-and-silver lame sheath-
frock. Mrs. David Martin, Mrs. Frank
Martin and Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell wore
smart black gowns under fur wraps.
Mrs. F. H. Wright, in powder-blue frock
and matching embroidered jacket, was
with her daughter, Mrs. Ronald Marriott.
Joan MacArthur, one of the Stratford-
on-Avon players, is married to a member
of the company, actor-producer Raymond
Westwell, and she makes a hobby of
housekeeping—wherever she tours, even
if they are only staying for a couple of
weeks, she has a flat in preference to
hotel life. Joan has many London suc-
cesses to her credit, including “Death of
a Salesman” with Paul Muni. She toured
the Continent with Fay Compton. She
is Emilia in the current production of
“Othello” at Her Majesty’s.
For her wedding at St. John’s, Toorak,
to William, younger son of Mr. and Mrs.
Ernest Spry, of Toorak, Margot, only
daughter of the William Pettigrews, of
Kew, wore a lovely gown which had a
fully-pleated skirt and a bodice trimmed
with appliques of white guipure lace
sewn with pearls and diamente. Similar
lace appliqued the tiny cap from which
flowed the long, tiered tulle veil. She
carried a bouquet of white spring
blossom. Mrs. John Hacking, of Sydney,
and Mrs. John Cook, the matrons-of-
honor, wore ballerina-length frocks of
primula-pink tulle which had pleated
skirts and cummerbunds of satin to match
their shoes and tiny curvettes. Bill
Kibby was best man and John Roclje, of
Adelaide, groomsman. Reception was
at Menzies’.
☆ ☆ ☆
President of the Royal Empire Society,
Major-General Kingsley Norris, received
the official guests at the monthly
luncheon, at which the speaker was the
former High Commissioner for Australia
in Delhi, Roy Gollan. In the official
party were Mrs. Kingsley Norris, Mrs.
Gollan, Dr. R. R. Wettenhall and the
headmaster of Geelong Grammar School,
Dr. J. R. Darling, who proposed the vote
of thanks to the speaker. Major-General
Kingsley Norris presented prizes to
Dorothy Maher, of Boort Higher Ele-
mentary School, and Brian Taverner, of
Camperdown High School, winners of
the society’s essay competition. Guests
at the luncheon included Mrs. Claude
Couchman, Mrs. H. G. Connell (member
of the society’s council), Mrs. E. C.
Rigby, Mrs. E. Wainwright and Mrs. H.
Shepherd.
☆ ☆ *
Tivoli head David N. Martin was seen
in a fresh role when he open'ed the new
studio of photographer Harry Jay, which
has a lovely view of Collins-street, add
is decorated in shades of cream and
apple-green. At the cocktail-party which
followed were John Warlow, president of
the Institute of Victorian Photographers,
his wife and Mrs. Douglas Lee, Mrs.
Len Wells, Mr. and Mrs. Enzio Toppano
(she is Peggy Mortimer, star of “Ice
Parade”), the Jim Geralds, Kenn Brod-
ziak (acting all mysterious over his next
theatrical venture) and Mrs. L. Sankey.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the Victoria League in
this State all agreed that the talk
Mrs. Fordham Flower gave them on the
Stratford-on-Avon Theatre was the most
entertaining they’d heard for a long time.
Mrs. Flower, who combined forest-green
•and scarlet in her smart ensemble, vas
met on arrival at the league’s rooms
by its president, Mrs. H. F. Maudsley.
Mrs. Flower could speak with authority
on her subject, for it was her husband’s
great-uncle, Charles Fordham Flower,
who founded and endowed the Memorial
Theatre. Those prelent included Mes-
dames R. Hamilton, Ken McLean, C. A.
Barclay, H. S. Heywood and Bowen
Allen, Misses Annie Danks, Joyce
Macartney and Mary Chomley.
☆☆ _ ☆
People of the Oodnadatta-Alice
Springs district who remember Sister
Edie Eglington as one of the two Sisters
in charge of the A.I.M. Hostel at Oodna-
datta during the war will be sorry to hear
that she is now in Royal Melbourne
Hospital suffering from the effects of
quite a severe accident. Sister Eglington
(she’is now Mrs. Robert Owen) has been
living in Yallourn (Vic.) since her
marriage 18 months ago but had gone
up to Melbourne, as her husband had
to enter the Repatriation Hospital at
Heidelberg. It was after accompanying
him to the Repatriation Hospital that she
herself had the bad luck to meet with
the accident. It is thought that she will
be in hospital for at least four months.
☆ ☆ ☆
The motto of the Navy League,, “Keep
Watch,” signalled by flags which flew
from a tall mast, was erected in the foyer
of the Royale Ballroom for the annual
ball, held to raise funds for the league.
There were also huge bowls of green
hydrangeas and foliage flanking the en
trance of the ballroom and little ships
carrying cargoes of camellias were set on
the small tables. A guard-of-honor com-
posed of Sea Cadets was formed for the
Minister of the Navy, Mr, McMahon,
who was greeted by the president of the
Navy League in Victoria, Commander
R. A. Nettlefold, and Mrs. Nettlefold,
and the president of the ball-committee.
Mrs. Arthur Laver, who was accompanied
by her husband. The Second Naval
Member, Commander D. H. Harries, and
Mrs. Harries, the Director of Reserves and
Reserve Fleet, Captain A. S. Rosenthal,
and Mrs. Rosenthal, the secretary to the
Department of the Navy, Mr. T. Haw-
kins, and Mrs. Hawkins, and Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade were also in the
official party.
Mrs. Lavers’s beautiful gown was of
white-and-silver lame taffeta. Mrs.
Nettlefold’s dull-slipper-satin was in gold
tonings. Of tulle and lace was Mrs.
Harries’s bouffant gown. Mrs, Geoffrey
Grimwade’s black faille frock had the
strapless top swathed with powder-blue
faille to form sash-ends. Committee-
member Mrs. Ken Guest wore deep-
mole-grey faille embroidered with steel
beads. Mrs. Lionel Grimwade’s choice
was dove-grey seersucker-nylon'-, her
daughter, Mrs. Keble Johnston, incor-
porated the R.A.A.F. colors of light-blue,
burgundy and navy in her striped faille
gown. Mrs. Harry Kinnear’s midnight-
blue satin brocades had a waterfall drape
of plain matching faille. Mrs. Simon
Warrender’s sheath gown of black chiffon
carried an allover design of gold sequins.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRUCE NOEL OALDBEOK 1 ate of
249 Doncaster Avenue, Kingsford. TAKE
NOTICE that BRENDA MART P.ALD-
BECK has filed a petition for Divorce No.
1002 of 1953, on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for 3 years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, King Street,
Sydney, by 23rd September, 1933, and
obtain a copy of the petition wittout
charge from C. MCCLELLAND SMITH,
Solicitor, of 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
Makers of
POWER STATION,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boilerhouse equipment.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works; Regents Park, N.S.W.
Branch Offices in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN...
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made by the world s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and boilerhouse equipment.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“South Pacific”
“South Pacific,” the spectacu-
lar Rodgers-Hammerstein-Logan
adaptation of some of James
A. Michener’s Tales of the South
Pacific, finally reached Sydney
last week (it opened in New
York over four years ago) to
open at the refurbished Empire
Theatre and to justify most of
what has been claimed for it as
a slap-up musical.
Musicomedy addicts might
find its occasional moments of
heavy solemnity a little indigest-
ible, and might also note with
regret the absence of the tradi-
tional ballet and chorus, but the
dispensers of the confection
have already sidestepped such
criticism by announcing that the
piece belongs to no known
theatrical category and requires
the new designation of “dramatic
musical play” or “dramatic
musicale.”
It might be any or all of those
things—the present commentator
went in with an open mind and
came out with one-—but the
main business of the evening
seems to be concerned with En-
sign Nellie Forbush, a U.S. Navy
nurse, falling in love with a
French planter, Emile de
Becque, and singing “I’m In
Love With a Wonderful Guy”
and “I’m Gonna Wash That
Man Right Outa My Hair,”
what time Emile falls likewise
and gives out with “Some En-
chanted Evening,” then goes off
to do some coastwatching among
the Japs and returns to find that
Nellie ain’t gonna wash him outa
her hair after all.
All that, and Bloody Mary,
too —the Tonkinese who divides
males into the two broad cate-
gories of “stingy bastar’ ” or
“damn’ saxy man” ; who pro-
cures her daughter, Liat, to
Lieutenant Cable; and who
sings, very finely, “Bali Ha’i”
and “Happy Talk,” the latter
with the accompaniment of some
intriguing “finger-talk” by Liat.
And if that isn’t enough for
the money, there are still Luther
Billis, the Seabee, who runs a
laundry and any other racket
about the place and provides
most of the evening’s comedy ;
the male chorus beefing out
“There’s Nothing Like a Dame”
in such a way that one can only
agree with them ; and a dozen
or so other U.S. Navy nurses
whose shapes prove conclusively
that there is, indeed, nothing
like a dame.
Mary La Roche and Richard
Collett are Nellie and Emile and
very agreeable about it all, al-
though, except when singing—
which is most of the time —Mr.
Collett tends to hide his voice
under a bushel of accent. On
the opening night, however, the
show seemed to belong to Vir-
ginia Paris for the enthusiasm
and spontaneity she injected into
Bloody Mary. Leonard Stone,
as Luther Billis, was not far
behind her.
* ❖ ❖
“Cav.-Pag.” and “Boheme”
Mascagni’s one-act opera of
peasant jealousy in Sicily,
“Cavalleria Rusticana,” opened
National Opera’s double-bill at
Sydney Tivoli, and, while Mina
Shelley’s production ran its
course without hitting any snags,
the passions with which Verga’s
tale deals were not sufficiently
fiery.
Neither Neil Easton as the
cuckold Alfio, nor Alan, Ferris
as the philandering Turiddu, suc-
ceeded in conveying to the full
the necessary emotions.
Gloria Read, substituting at
short notice for Gladys Maw-
son, sang quite stylishly as San-
tuzza, but could have let herself
go more in her scenes with
Turiddu when upbraiding him.
Marie Tysoe’s Lola was suitably
overbearing towards her rival.
The Easter Hymn chorus outside
the church carried good weight
and tone.
Moving across the Straits of
Messina to Calabria, the com-
pany launched into “Pagliacci,”
and an improvement was quickly
noticeable. Alan Light set the
standard of song with a finely
delivered Prologue, later making
Tonic’s rage and frustration
come well to life.
Ronald Dowd’s Canio was
full-blooded histrionically as
well as vocally. His “On With
the Motley” was full of bitter-
ness and grief, his voice verging
on the robust. And in the final
measures of the play-within-the-
play he was completely convinc-
ing as the madly vengeful hus-
band. As Nedda Beryl Hardy
was pert and coquettish and she
sang with feeling. Harold Wil-
liams was Silvio and Robert
O’Dopnell Beppe.
Decor and costumes by
Robin Lovejoy kept closely to
the traditional, yet with a general
brightness investing it. Ivan
Rixon handled the orchestra m
both operas, maintaining excel-
lent weight-balance between his
forces and the singers.
Two nights later the company
sped north to the Latin quarter
of Paris, and tenderly unfolded
the story of Mimi and her
Rodolfo. With “Boheme” came
the best singing of the season.
Again Ronald Dowd was in
fine voice which, this time, was
throttled back in consort with
the lighter love-music. In the
final act his devotion to the
dying Mimi was quite moving.
Tais Taras was a demure and
most appealing Mimi, and she
shaded her voice away admir-
ably in the death-scene.
An outstanding success was
Geoffrey Chard as the painter,
Marcel. To his manly appear-
ance and lively acting he brought
a splendidly-resonant baritone.
Neil Easton’s Schaunard and
William Diamond’s Offline —
the latter’s farewell to the over-
coat he is about to pawn had the
right touch of mockery-made
up the quartet of Bohemians
whose gaiety in Marcel’s studio
was carried through on a high
note. Beryl Hardy was Musetta,
and she sang the famous Waltz
Song with plenty of zest.
♦> ❖ ❖
Stratford-on-the-Y arra
“Othello,” put on by the Strat-
ford Players at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, is not one of Shak-
speare’s great plays, like “Ham-
let” and “Lear.”
There are some of the great
thoughts in it which we find in
the other plays, but they are put
into the mouths of people whom
we feel would be the last per-
sons to express them. Othello
is supposed to be a great general,
a sort of Rommel, but when
one of his officers tells him that
his wife has given a handker-
chief that has sentimental asso-
ciations for him to another
officer he becomes completely
idiotic, says his occupation’s
gone, goes berserk and strangles
the lovely creature, who was
probably a perfectly ordinary
nice young woman as like a
thousand others as one pea is like
another.
Imagine Nelson, Napoleon,
Hitler or even Wellington throw-
ing up a campaign and hurrying
home because he heard his wife
or girl had taken a fancy to a
colonel. And when Othello ex-
presses his commonplace re-
actions in Shakspeare’s lovely
imagery it sounds more incon-
gruous than ever.
I didn’t feel desperately con-
cerned about the plight of
Othello or his lady. I couldn’t
detect the human note in
Anthony Quayle’s voice, beauti-
ful though it is. He didn’t make
me think of a great general, or
a murderer, or even of a man,
but only of an actor. And I
didn’t find my heart bleeding
for the woes of Barbara Jefford’s
Desdemona, beautiful as she is.
I didn’t feel any tears in her
sobs even if there was distrac-
tion in her aspect.
The actors who kept me most
on the level of sensation were
Leo McKern, the Sydneysider,
who played lago as if he felt
and understood him, and Joan
MacArthur, whose disgust at
the senseless murder of her
lovely mistress and contempt for
the dull stupidity of the lady’s
husband, made me think of the
real problem with which Shak-
speare was dealing.—F. S.
* ❖ ❖
Erna Sack
Erna Sack plays, upon her
voice as on a Stradivarius in
which ,age has preserved the
head-notes at the expense of
lower registers; she achieves at
high altitudes something of the
effect of violin-harmonics, sound
that melts ethereally into sound
and produces, in her treatment
of Mozart’s “Cradle Song” and
Schumann’s “Moonlight,” an
arrest of time, an aesthetic
moment, which is personal
artistry and not composed music.
In more earthy Schumann
songs and in operatic arias the
effect is more of intention than
achievement. A novelty at her
Sydney concert last Wednesday
was “Vahlseeng Mateelda,” in
which reference to a “tooker-
barg” gave pleasure to the audi-
ence ; the sentiment of a few
balladlike songs into which she
put considerable gaiety was
largely lost because they were
sung in German.
♦♦♦ ❖
Castro
In a group of Brisbane con-
certs Juan Jose Castro showed
his flair for the dramatic in
music. With an orchestra much
smaller than the one Richard
Strauss envisaged, Castro made
“Death and Transfiguration”
sound so convincing that for
once it was unnecessary to at-
tempt to reconcile the compli-
cated programme notes with the
music itself.
In the Beethoven Fifth Sym-
phony, played to a youth
audience, Castro took the sen-
sible view that many present
would be hearing the work for
the first time, but so careful was
he in not taking the work for
granted that the listener heard
all the detail without getting a
completely satisfying total effect.
The star of these concerts,
however, was pianist Louis
Kentner. The loveliness and
poetry, as well as the massive-
ness, of Brahms’s second piano
concerto as revealed in his play-
ing, must have converted many
who previously talked about
Brahms’s supposed austerity.
The burst of applause at the end
of the work was as much for
the composer as for the execu-
tants.
♦♦♦ ♦J 4
“The Voice of the Turtle”
John van Druten’s homely
little comedy about a U.S.
soldier, two girls in a flat and
the straightening-out of their
love-affairs makes a pleasant
entertainment at Sydney Mer-
cury, without advancing the
theatre very far —in fact, it
carries it back to the atmosphere
of Minerva, which ran series
of such plays (including this
one) during the war. In the
hands of Harp McGuire, Joan
Landor and Kerry Norton the
play lost something in sparkle
but gained in a refreshing
naturalness.
Artbursts
“F.S.”: It was predicted in
these pages when Rouault’s
“Christ” was acquired by the
Felton Bequest for the National
Gallery in Melbourne that in a
short time there would be a
local spate of religious pictures
all done in the Rouault manner.
At the Peter Bray Gallery Eric
Smith is hanging “Christ Preach-
ing,” “Christ Mocked,” “Christ
the King,” “Christ and the Sol-
diers,” “Head of Christ,” “Ecce
Homo” and a couple Of Cruci-
fixions, and they all more or
less retell the same story, with
some local variations like break-
ing up surfaces into squares and
rectangles all of the one color.
Talkies
“Niagara”
Rather a tame “suspense-
thriller,” with Joseph Gotten in
his now-familiar role of the
sinister killer. But he takes an
unconscionable time in bumping-
off his young wife after she
flaunts her infidelities in his
face. The only interesting things
are the splendid photography, in
color, of Niagara Falls and of
Marilyn Monroe’s bust, both
taken from every possible angle
—and Miss Monroe’s bust is
the only justification for her
ever appearing in a film. There
is also a rear-view shot of the
lady walking; if Chaplin could
reproduce that he’d bring the
house down. At Sydney May-
fair.
♦j>
“Treasure of the Golden
Condor”
An air of unreality hovers
over this treasure-search opus set
in Guatemala. The story is by
no means original, and all diffi-
culties are swept through far too
easily. Least likely of all are
the scenes * inside the cave in
which the treasure is finally
located. Of course, the hero.
Cornel Wilde, has first to do
battle with a giant anaconda,
and the patent fact that the rep-
tile is made of rubber greatly
assists him in securing a noble
victory.
The heroine, Constance Smith,
displays remarkable talent in
that, after days of pushing
through the densest jungle, she
reaches the treasure with even
a better perm, than when she
started out.
The scenes set in 18th-century
France have far more authen-
ticity than those in the New
World. At Sydney Plaza.


O WHAT CAN
AIL THEE, KNIGHT-AT-ARMS?
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
Ted dean was a brownly-
handsome young man with
one of those lean, hard,
smiling, resolute faces, keen
blue eyes under meeting brown
eyebrows and a sharply-crooked
nose. The smile was more or
less permanent, amiable—almost
beaming—and with a clench in
it. And it was backed by an
uncommonly determined-looking
chin.
Ted came from my part of the
world Toomalong. Caloola,
the Dean place, about twenty
miles out of town, was the best
property along the river,
some said. It was certainly
one of the best - managed.
The Deans ran sheep—Merinos,
mostly—with some crossbreds on
their higher-rainfall block to the
south. Beef cattle, too —Short-
horns —which they topped off on
the lush Caloola river-flats. But
Caloola revolved around the
wool-cheque.
The old homestead was two-
storied red brick, with native and
European trees sheltering it like
a park. The hills above it, and
the river below, with Caloola
creek slanting round in a long
green S. Two deep-green banks
of willows, the sun penetrating
their bowed heads so that a
slender ribbon of light danced
down the middle of the stream
and the rest was shadow.
Ted’s enlistment caused quite
a stir in the district, especially
among the mothers of marriage-
able daughters. But there was
more to Ted than his value in
the marriage market. They liked
him in the A.1.F., too, where the
size of the Caloola wool-cheque
didn’t carry so much weight.
/~\UR troopship was leaving
Bombay. The sun was sink-
ing dramatically. Ted was stand-
ing beside me at the rails.
“Well,” he said, his blue eyes
shining. “This is it, eh, Joe?
We can feel we’re really going
somewhere now.”
I looked at him speculatively
—the sort of Australian one
takes pleasure in recognising as
a countryman overseas. Tall
without being lanky, well-knit,
active, capable. A hint of the
horseman’s swagger in his walk,
a hooded, unconsciously-search-
ing and fearless look about the
eyes. As typical, in his vastly
different way, of a country, a
class and a tradition, as are the
pink-and-white G.P.S. subalterns
in the British Army.
Ted was G.P.S. himself—an
Australian Great Public School
—and in a shy, deliberately-
casual way he was proud of it.
Just what school it was. King’s
or Shore or Scots or Grammar,
I forget. It seemed, somehow,
unimportant. For one thought
of Ted in relation to Caloola ;
and not simply in terms of wool-
cheques.
The ocean was* a film, with a
leaping luminescence in the rush-
ing waters below us-. A destroyer
was winking signals, out there
on the edge of darkness.
“Time for tucker,” said Ted.
We moved down to mess in a
general khaki mass, baa-ing,
“Baa.
“Baa.
“Baa-AA!”
One of those few good jokes
that need no underlining.
Caesar’s soldiers, perhaps, had
some joke of the kind.
“Going down to the canteen?”
Ted asked, some time later.
We went
The wet-canteen was some-
thing like a nice-minded person’s
idea of hell. Hot! The heat of
the tropic night was intensified
here, dramatised. Blackout
curtains blocked fresh air. At
first one felt like choking. The
second reaction was nausea.
Then, through the blue mist that
stung the eyes, shining half-
naked figures took fantastic
shape, looming and capering.
Jolly fiends drinking warm beer
out of dixies.
A really nice person, of course,
wouldn’t have been seen dead
in the place. Ted, for instance,
would no more have thought of
drinking beer in such an environ-
ment in peace-time than he
would have considered dropping
into the infernal regions for a
dry sherry before dinner. In the
extraordinary conditions of a
troopship we revelled in it; at
least, some of us did. Officers
drank in a cool and airy lounge,
in feminine company and served
by white - coated stewards.
Warrant-officers and sergeants
had some second-degree white-
man’s heaven on B-deck. And
there were fastidious privates
who swore they would die of
thirst before they set foot in the
ship’s wet-canteen.
It was a wet canteen. Beer
foaming on the floor from kegs
in the corner, bare feet puddling
in its muddy stream; beer spilt
from unsteady dixies trickling
down chins, chests, sweat-soaked
shorts. All the regulars wore
shorts—-and nothing else—for
good and sufficient reasons.
Nearly naked bodies scrambling
and surging, shouting and brawl-
ing, under the flickering light.
Skinny bodies, gross bodies,
magnificent but disgusting
bodies, filling the place with
stink and din. Stark and gleam-
ing bodies leaping like moist
bronze in the shadows, lurching
and meeting in horrid moist
contact. Oneself wet, the fierce
sweat springing from gasping
pores and the warm beer spurt-
ing from the wooden taps into
the shallow dixies.
For you had to be in it. Once
inside, there was nothing for it
but revel or expire. Sink or
swim. And, swimming through
the fetid, smoky, greasy element,
dixie in one hand, clawing a
passage through slippery bodies
withxthe other, one discovered,
after a time, that it wasn’t so
bad. A genial, watery sort of
hell.
/'ASSIE PETERS was drinking
near us. I pointed the pale-
faced, sloe-eyed boxer out to
Ted. “That’s him,” I said, “Ossie
Peters. He was nearly the
welterweight champion of Aus-
tralia, once.”
Ted remembered him. There
wasn’t much Ted didn’t know
about boxers, racehorses—that
sort of thing. I sometimes
thought that if Ted had switched
the mental energy he gave to
sport to something cultural —to
use a horrible word —he would
have been remarkable. A sort of
Australian Goethe.
But a cultured Ted was hard to
visualise. And, perhaps, unneces-
sary. I had a quick memory of
Ted at the big bushfire, face
black, bushy eyebrows burnt
away, working like a demon ;
coolly, too. It was Ted who
thought of burning the break
across New Chum paddock,
taking a risk and saving most 6f
Caloola and Porter’s paddock as
well. No time to weigh the pros
and cons —and the risk his own.
Ted and the grey gelding lying
in a shrinking waterhole while
the scorching red fury of the fire
roared over them. Old Dean
swearing like a madman on the
distant side of the rolling towers
of smoke, tears trickling into his
sooty beard . . .
Men like Ted give confidence.
Good men to have beside one
in the unknown adventure of
war. Although, as a matter of
fact, Ted and I were in different
units.
With a sudden roll of the ship
Ted’s square shoulder bumped
into Ossie’s chest. “Sorry,” Ted
said automatically, and recoiled
with the ship’s recovery.
Ossie fixed him with a lustre-
less eye. He was standing with
feet wide apart, drooping head
and hanging arms. His long
black hair was plastered over his
forehead and he peered at Ted
through the wet strands like
some dangerous, stupid animal
through the bars of a cage.
“Bloody clumsy bastard!” he
said thickly.
“Hey, I said I was sorry,” Ted
said. Thinking this a little mild,
perhaps, he replied in the
vernacular. “Pull your head in,
mug.”
“Y 5 spilt me beer,” Ossie said
accusingly, plaintively. He began
to gently sway.
“That’s no reason to call me
a bastard,” Ted said warmly.
“Come on, Ted,” I said. “He’s
drunk.” I grabbed Ted’s sticky
arm. The wrong thing. Ted
shook me off fiercely. “Leave
me alone, Joe, No lousy punch-
drunk’s going to call me that and
get away with it! ”
We were all a little drunk.
The heat, the beer, on top of
what we had been drinking in
Bombay were too much for us:-
the Bombay drinks had been
latent, waiting to flare-up with
the warm beer.
I was officiously drunk.
“Come on, come on, break it
up,” I shouted. “It’s just a
mistake, no call for fighting!”
Ossie shook his head, blinked
and stared at me oWlishly.
“Fightin’? Fightin’? ’Go’s
fightin’?” His wavering glance
closed with Ted’s truculent blue
stare. “You fightin’, cock, are
y’? And ’oo are y’ goin’ to fight,
sonny boy—y’r grandmother?”
“You—if you like,” Ted said
in a low, choked voice.
Ossie laughed, “Are y’?
That’s funny. That’s
funny, that is. You— sonny
boy—y’ dirty lousy flash stuck-
up bastard! Do y’ know ’oo
I am, cock —eli, sonny boy? I’m
Ossie Peters.”
“I don’t care if you’re Joe
Louis.”
“Don’t y’ ? Well, come on—
’ave .a go. Don’t squib it, sonny
boy.” Ossie poked his chin out
and Ted hit it. Ossie fell in a
wet heap on the liquid floor.
One or two people looked over
casually and continued drinking.
Fights were no, novelty in the
wet-canteen.
I TURNED on Ted outside.
“That was a fine thing to do
—fine and bloody stupid,” I
said bitterly.
“Eh?” Ted was amazed. He
had been about to say something
offhand and modest about
knocking down the famous Ossie
Peters. He glared at me in
astonishment, his eyes blue
circles in rims of incredulous
white. His very hair seemed to
stand up and shout brown
surprise. “Eh what what’s
that you say?” he stammered.
My bitterness was partly per-
sonal. I was suddenly disgusted
with all this, the sordid drink-
ing, the silly brutality. What
did it prove, I wondered —all
this fighting? That one human
animal had been bred with
heavier muscle, better co-ordina-
tion, than the other? And then
—what? The skinny little ex-
schoolmaster who took us for
boat-drill would, I suspected,
turn out a better soldier than
any of us. I was disenchanted
with the voyage, my com-
panions, myself; Tired of cheap
living and cheap heroics.
All this I took out on Ted,
with thorough enjoyment.
“Why?” I said. “I told you he
was drunk, didn’t I? You could
have come away, couldn’t you?
But no. You had to prove what
a brave fellow you were.”
“What the hell?” Ted said
angrily. “What’s eating you,
Joe? He picked me—didn’t
he?”
“Yes. Oh, yes, he picked
you,” I said with affected casual-
ness. I pulled a packet of
cigarettes out of my damp top
pocket, lit one and felt better,
“But you said he was a punch-
drunk yourself, didn’t you? You
know what a punch-drunk is,
don’t you? Blows on the head.
Tiny haemorrhages on the front
of the brain; capillary scars ;
something like that. Look. This
is the head. A bony ball.
Hollow. Hard, Inside, some-
thing soft, bouncing around
when it’s hit. The brain. You
hit it so” —I drove my fist into
my open palm—“and the soft
ball inside cracks the hard wall.
Doesn’t do it much good. You
know what happens? With
repeated blows, they lose their
sense of balance every-
thing ...”
“Quite a lecture,” Ted said
sarcastically. He leant forward.
“It makes me feel sick. Is Ossie
a punch-drunk in that sense? I
shouldn’t have thought they’d
have taken him if he was.”
“I don’t know,” I confessed.
“All I know is he could fight
once; he can’t now. Not when
he’s drunk. And he’s always
drunk when he fights. He
wouldn’t say ‘boo’ sober.” I
watched Ted narrowly, “Anyone
could knock Ossie over when
he’s drunk, even half-drunk. I
could. A child could.”
A variety of expressions
crossed Ted’s lean brown face.
Finally he said, slowly: “Well,
I didn’t know that.”
That was true, too.
COME considerable time later,
in Germany, I had news of
Ted. He was in a working camp
near Gosdorf, I was told, digging
a canal. He wasn’t enjoying it.
Ted’s mob did a good job in
Greece. A few guns were left
high and dry at the finish, on a
mountain too high and awkward
for the Stukas to get at them,
and the road below them was
black with the German advance.
They had great fun there for a
time, dropping their devilish
loads on the packed vehicles
below, until their ammunition
ran out. Then they toppled their
guns over a cliff and watched
them thundering and bouncing
gigantically into nothing.
In the meantime the Germans
had thrown a ring of steel around
them, antlike infantry, slowly
climbing. Ted, somehow, slipped
through that tightening circle
and finished up on Crete.
The men from his field battery
said he was a good soldier. So
did the infantrymen who had
known him on Crete. Tough,
though . . Here a hard-faced
infantryman scratched his
stubbled chin and remembered
the twelve Jerry parachutists.
Necessary, of course, he
explained hastily—the way things
were —in their position. In the
hills, short of tucker, prisoners
a nuisance. Greece lost, but no
thought then of losing Crete.
No thought of surrender. They
caught the parachutists napping
and took prisoner. Twelve
of them, all big fellows. Strap-
ping young fellows, really,
picked men. A pity to destroy
them. A necessity of war. All
the same, the hard-faced
infantryman said slowly, he
couldn’t’ve done it himself. This
artillery joker—Dean—did it,
though. My oath. Bang-bang—
reload —bang-bang—six more.
No beg-pardons. Reload—
bang-bang—a couple more-
just for luck, Mercy shots.
Twelve of them, trussed-up, dead
as mutton. He couldn’t forget
their eyes.
The infantryman finished on
a rueful laugh. “Cest la guerre,"
he said, and spat.
TI/ALKING past the French
’ * comp ound one day I looked
twice at a tall Australian sergeant
wearing the red-and-navy
artillery color-patches. He stared
back.
“Hullo, Joe!” Then, swiftly
frowning. “It is Joe Campbell,
isn’t it?”
“That’s right,” I said. “I know
you, too, only ...” Then he
smiled, the quick smile with s
clench in it, and I recognised him
immediately, “Why, Ted ...”
I was extravagantly pleased to
see him. It was finding a bit of
Toomalong in the heart of
Europe.
News? Ted’s cousin Jim—
I remembered him, didn’t 17-
out on the river road —had
finally joined up. Militia.
Commission, too. Ted grinned.
They must be hard up for
officers. His mother was well,
but she worried ... Ted frowned
at the ground. The old man
was well. Savage about taxes.
He had been experimenting
with a new line of rams, too;
sounded promising. Brother
Tom was having trouble with
the shearers, last he’d heard, and
moaning like hell. Ted grinned
satirically. Although, he said,
his blue gaze straying beyond
the barbed-wire to the dark
frontiers of forest, come to think
of it, Tom would be on a good
thing wouldn’t he? “If I
don’t come back.”
Ted knocked the ash off his
abominable Algerian - French
cigarette and explained. Only
the two of them as far as Caloola
was concerned. Other provision
had been made for the girls,
“you know.”
I knew nothing of the sort,
and stared at him. But Ted
said, his blue glance flickering
over me—“ You’ve changed,
Joe. Look older.”
Did I? It was what I had
been thinking about Ted. His
lean face was leaner, bony and
hard. More stolid and, at the
same time, more intense. There
were deeper lines about the blue
eyes, and a single straight line, a
furrow, between the bushy eye-
brows. As though he did a lot


ALL GENUINE
I.H. PARTS ARE
0
VS
GENUINE
a
PARTS
/r
i r /
-a?
All genuine International
Harvester Parts are “Identical
Twins”. This means they’re identical
with the original parts built into new
products at International Harvester’s
Works. They pass the same inspec-
tion, they’re made from the same
in your International trucks,
McCormick International tractors and
farm equipment. Your International
Harvester dealer has a systematically
controlled stock of parts for all
the I.H. equipment in your area.
Don’t rely on “will fit” parts. Ask
materials . . . that’s
why they fit better, last
longer, and retain the
economy of performance
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works; Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
your local International
Harvester dealer for
only Genuine I.H.
Parts.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
m
iirrcffMATiOMAt
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Truck*
Defender Refrigerator*
international Industrial Power
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
of frowning; or a deal of deep
thinking. But his smile was the
same.
Still, he had aged. I looked at
him, almost furtively. The brown
hair was sprinkled with grey.
Those twelve parachutists came
floating into my imagination.
But I refused to look at them.
War is an act of violence. And
for such deeds let each man be
his own judge. He is, anyway,
sooner or later. Ted had
changed. Well, he wasn’t Peter
Pan—he could hardly stop still.
I had changed myself.
I came back to the present of
the drab Stalag to find Ted’s
blue eyes inspecting me quiz-
zically. I knew he had asked a
question, but I didn’t know what
it was, “Eh?” I said, with the
feigned deafness of such predica-
ments.
“I said, I ran into that pug
bloke —you know —Ossie Peters?
You know, the one I had a bit
of a blue with on the boat?”
Ted said testily.
I had, as a matter of fact, met
Ossie again in Greece, in
rather peculiar circumstances.
I told him what I knew
about Ossie’s recent move-
ments. He had been on the loose
in Greece, and, according to
reports, had been with a gang
of guerrillas in the mountains.
He had married a Greek girl
there. At present he was in our
Stalag.
know what, Joe,” Ted
said, pulling the lobe of
his ear, “I’ve been thinking about
that business on the boat —that
fellow being drunk. I wouldn’t
have hit him, Joe, if I’d known
the way he was.”
I looked at him thoughtfully.
Here was an extraordinary
streak in the man. He could
shoot a dozen unarmed men,
and was worried about the ethics
of a canteen brawl.
“Oh, these things happen,” I
said in vague consolation. Giv-
ing “these things” a pretty wide
definition in my own mind. I
pointed to the stripes on Ted’s
arm. “What’s this —Stalag pro-
motion?” I asked jocularly.
There were a lot of self-
appointed sergeants knocking
around German p.-0.-w. camps
at the time.
“Hell, no! I earned them!”
Ted said, with a trace of fierce-
ness. Then, recovering himself
with a smile. “Came through
after I was captured. For work
in Greece.”
“Nice work,” I said politely.
Ted scowled. “When I think
of some of the bludgers . . . that
got away ...” He muttered.
He looked at me accusingly and
reeled off. a string of place-
names and names of persons.
“You know about that, don’t
you?” he demanded.
I nodded. Just about everyone
in the Stalag knew about those
places, those individuals.
“What’s going to happen about
those bludgers?” Ted demanded.
“They’ll be promoted, I
expect,” I said.
I thought Ted was going to
explode. “Promoted!” he said
in a strangled voice. “My God!
Promoted! You’re right,
though. That’s what'll happen.
They got home. Heroes. Pro-
moted. Those fine gentlemen.
And when I think we weren’t
good enough to drink in the
same pubs as them in the Middle
East, not to breathe the same
air, hardly, it—it makes me
sick! ” This was anticlimax ;
ludicrous understatement to
express the violence of Ted’s
feelings. His blue eyes blazed.
His big fists were clenched. The
words forced their way through
tight lips.
“Cast la guerre,” I said tritely.
“I suppose so,” Ted said
heavily. “It makes you mad,
though. Makes me mad. Some
of those—heroes —lording it
over us. Lord Mucks without
two-bob to bless ’emselves with
before the war. Lording it over
us. Then going through. God.
It’s like a confidence-trick.”
His hooded eyes stared
gloomily at the forest. And
looking at his gaunt profile, his
rigid tall frame and the cold
blankness of those blue eyes, I
felt,a sort of spiritual chill. He
looked utterly lonely.
“Remember the riot?” Ted
said suddenly.
“The riot?” I said. Yes, I
remembered the riot outside
Fremantle. Discipline had
broken down for a time. The
riot had had an amusing side,
too.
“Yes, the riot,” Ted said.
And I knew at once that he could
think of nothing amusing about
it. “Didn’t that prove some-
thing, Joe —show where the
weakness lay? Before the riot,
some of those young officers
thought it was a great lark,
didn’t they? Cabins, flash
menus, grog, nurses. Travel de
luxe. Sort of little imitation
sahibs. And us stewing below.
Funny thing, I saw nothing
wrong with that at the time. I
thought, this is the Army and
the.se are the rules... Like going
to school. . . But now ... And
then, Joe, then, when the stink
started where were they—eh?—
some of those little counter-
jumpers on horseback? Eh?”
“Some of them were all right,”
I said. “Quite a few, in fact.”
“Discipline,” Ted said, with
an indescribable air of porten-
tousness ; as though he had dis-
missed anything I had said, or
contemplated saying, as
irrelevant. True in itself, per-
haps, but frivolous beside the
grave weight of his own convic-
tions. He stared at me without
blinking and allowed the slow
smoke to trickle out from the
nostrils of his crooked nose.
“God, Joe, I believe in dis-
cipline! I’ve seen what it can
do. Seen what happens without
it. I tell you, Joe, no skiting, if
I’d’ve got away from Greece, I’d
have gone a long way. I’m not
kidding myself—l know!” He
stared fiercely at the high moun-
tains and, looking at him, I
believed him.
HE looked at me, and his blue
eyes sparkled. “Discipline,”
Ted said harshly. “You can’t
explain it, but it wins battles.
Wins wars. That’s the idea, isn’t
it? If only—but skip that.
Those lousy hoodlums on the
boat—their twopenny riot—l
hated them. Can’t help it—just
hate ’em. Everything about ’em.
Everything they stand for. Their
greasy arrogance, and the whine
in their voices when they’re not
on top. A mob.” He paused for
breath, and it occurred to me
that Ted was consumed by a
universal hatred.
“Some of them are here,” Ted
said. “The rioters. Remember
how game they were? Well, why
don’t they riot here?” He spun
on the worn-down heel of his
boot, pivoting - rapidly and
absurdly ; only he wasn’t absurd.
“Because” —Ted said, pointing at
the stork-legged postern-boxes
round the perimeter of barbed-
wire, the small helmets and the
fretted barrels of the machine-
guns—“of them. That’s why,
Joe. The only way. Bash ’em
first. Stand over ’em. Lay the
boot in. They respect you then,
the mob.” His cigarette had
gone out and he lit it again.
“You can see it here, Joe,”
Ted continued, more quietly.
“The Jerries have got it down to
a fine art —a science. Starve a
man, starve a mob of men and
then graciously give ’em a bit
extra. Three men to a loaf of
bread instead of four. Or their
own Red Cross parcels. They
Jike you, then. They reckon
you’re not a bad bloke, after all.
But give ’em the world to start
with, and then see how you get
on. Dare to cut out one little
thing, one bottle of beer in the
Army instead of two, and you’re
the greatest swine in the world.
They’ll scream and howl at you
then, all the pampered paupers,
if you let them! ”
I ventured some mild protest.
After all, this patrician scorn
consorted ill with Ted’s raging
discontent at being banned from
Shepheard’s, and I said so.
“The right kind of discipline,
though, Joe; don’t you see
that?” Ted said eagerly. And I
saw with alarm that I had to
deal with a man with a theory.
He had it all worked out. No
man should get a commission
until he had been under fire. He
waved away my objection that
they had to start somewhere —
yes, yes, he had thought of that.
He had the answer. Old soldiers.
Plenty of them around. Even
if some of them weren’t too
bright. They’d been blooded,
though—that was the point.
They’d be better than untried
men —no margin of error. No
weak links to let down a com-
pany, a battalion or a brigade.
Some of the old fellows wouldn’t
be too fit physically. Well, if
they died on active service, there
were worse fates. Rotting here,
for one. And they would have
served’their purpose. The young
men would succeed them. Young
men tested in action. He didn’t
give a damn what their educa-
tion was, what their table
manners. Although, of course,
for technical arms —artillery for
instance—a certain basic educa-
tion would be necessary. But
anything else —no. This Army
had knocked a lot of snobbish
ideas out of his head, Ted said.
As long as they had guts—that
was what was important —in the
long run, outweighing every-
thing.
These young men, the natural
leaders —he would give them
commissions, Ted said, as calmly
as though he were Napoleon dis-
tributing marshals’ batons. And
not a damn’ one to a man who
had never been under fire.
Although, he said thoughtfully,
it wouldn’t be a bad idea to give
some preference to men on the
land. They usually had initiative
and an eye for country. Graziers
would make good commanding
officers. Be good mixers, too.
It was all logical and a little
mad.
“Well,” I said, glancing at the
sun. “Fd better be going, Ted.
Just about brew-up time. See
you later.”
“Fd better be going myself,”
Ted said. But he made no
attempt to go. He just stood
there, still as a rock in the streaky
sunshine, his hands in his tunic
pockets, frowning. “It’s been
good seeing you, Joe. You set
me talking. These things . . .
Think about them . . . Don’t
talk about them though . . .
Until today ... As I was saying
—discipline . . . It’s important.”
I said I had never doubted it.
Ted looked at me sharply.
“Mind you,” he said, weigh-
ing his words humorlessly, “I
mean, the right sort of discipline.
Strict. Hard. Fair. The higher
the rank, the more severe the dis-
cipline, even if it isn't always
fair. Look at it this way, Joe.
((Continued on page 22)


A general makes a mistake, loses
an action. An honest mistake,
but still men are killed for it.
What do they do? Kick him
upstairs. Demote him, maybe.
But think, Joe. On that action
a campaign, a war, maybe, in
the long run, may depend.
Know what I’d do, Joe? I’d
shoot him.”
I said that that sort of thing
had been tried before in the
history of warfare.
“Of course, of course,” Ted
said, nodding energetically, fall-
ing in with my unspoken objec-
tions ; being reasonable. “I
know, Joe. I know. It might
cramp his initiative. Well, if he
was too timid, you could shoot
him for that, too.”
“Get him one way or the
other, eh?” I said, smiling at the
grotesque humor of the thing.
“Coming or going. Gripes, Ted,
you must hate generals.”
Ted was annoyed. “Nothing
of the sort,” he said sharply.
“Matter of fact, I rather like
them. Old General Debben, for
instance. Used to go to school
with his son. Been out to his
place often. Fine old boy. But
war’s got nothing to do with —
social things. War’s serious. My
idea sounds brutal, I know.
Can’t help that. Old man, per-
haps. Good old man, father of
a family, all that. Faithful
service. Can’t be helped. War’s
brutal. Poor cows get their guts
ripped out; blinded ; crippled.
Women, too. Women and kids.
Total war. So why should a
general bellyache if he gets his?
It’s their own choosing being
generals. And it’s a good life.
Live high, sleep soft. And there
are plenty more.”
“Maybe you’re wrong,” I said.
Lured, despite myself, into this
fantastic discussion. “Maybe
everything has advantages
compensations disadvantages.
A general, like you say, who
njakes a big mistake might suffer
—mentally. It might be horrible.
Worse than being shot.”
Ted smiled sceptically.
“Maybe. In that case we’d be
doing him a good turn.”
6 6 A LTHOUGH, mind you,”
Ted said, his mind return-
ing unerringly to his obsession,
“you’ve got to be hard. I
wouldn’t like it myself—shoot
some decent man in cold blood.
I’d do it, though.” Ted lit
another cigarette with his smoky
lighter, ingeniously modelled
from a used round. He saw me
glancing at it. “Pretty, isn’t it?
A Yugo. made it for me. Yes,
Joe, I’ff do it. In fact I’ve done
it —something of the sort. What
I thought was right.” He
glanced at me and glanced away.
“In Crete. Parachutists. Didn’t
like it. Naturally. Unarmed
men. But” —he shrugged,
frowned—“it was necessary, the
way I saw it. I don’t believe in
taking prisoners, anyway. Silly
business. Kill or be killed.
That’s the best way. That’s —
logical. As it is, we blow women
and kids to smithereens and
coddle prisoners! ”
“You’re a prisoner yourself,”
I reminded him.
“That’s right.” He smiled with
that new satirical edge' of
humor, at himself. “So I am.
A prisoner. A bloody prisoner-
of-war.” He laughed harshly.
“Still, I didn’t have much say.
A mass surrender. Could have
shot myself, I suppose. Might
be better off. But, you see, I
don’t believe in that. And at
the time you don’t think of it.”
He was silent so long that I
began to feel uncomfortable. He
caught my eye. “You know,
Joe, it’s funny—when you come
to think of it. Me shooting
those parachutists—me here. I
wonder what the Jerries would
say if they knew —what they’d
do?”
“Plenty,” I assured him. “For
God’s sake, Ted ; you want to
keep your mouth shut!” He
grinned. “Oh, I will; don’t
worry about that. Mind you,
Joe, I don’t regret it. No. I’d
do it again. But I can assure
you that I took no particular
personal pleasure in shooting
those poor unfortunate bastards,
all tied up. Nothing like” —his
voice sank to a sinister under-
tone ; and I had a glimpse of all
the black hatred bubbling within
him—“nothing at all like the
satisfaction I’d get out of having
certain A.I.F. gentlemen lined up
against a nice, quiet brick wall.
A platoon there with rifles, wait-
ing for me to say ‘Fire! ’ ”
A peculiarity I was noticing
was that in each barbaric wish-
fulfilment, in every blood-misted
image, Ted saw himself as a
leader. A mere lieutenant this
time. He was being modest.
“I’d let ’em say their prayers
first,” Ted said dreamily. “I
believe in that. Wish I’d thought
of it on Crete. And I’d let ’em
have a smoke. Then I’d let ’em
have it. Nothing cruel. Mercy
shots. Not revenge. Just—just
that it’s better for the earth to
be free of such vermin.”
I looked at him with something
like consternation; a sort of
troubled and amazed foreboding
of evil. He was so hard, so sure
he was right, so crazily sane. If
he ever got power in his capable
brown hands he would be a
monster, I thought.
“Well, Joe, it’s been nice see-
ing you,” Ted said, gripping my
hand cordially. “What barrack
are you in?—Good. I’ll drop
in and see you. Got some photos
to show you. Look after
yourself.”
With a smile and a nod he was
gone, swinging his arms
vigorously.
T SAW a good deal of Ted after
A that. He, the new Ted I had
discovered in the Stalag,
improved on acquaintance. He
would come to my barrack, or I
would go to his, and we would
sit on the narrow bunks and talk
for hours. In his own barrack
he was a charming host. If it
was brew-up time he would offer
me a blackened butter-tin mug
with an air, at once homely and
courtly, as though he were back
on Caloola. Somehow he always
managed to scrape up some tea
or coffee for my entertainment.
And usually there was something
else as well. A piece of bread or
a biscuit. Failing sugar, there
would be saccharine tablets.
Ted’s generosity touched me.
To a man like Ted, in peace-
time, hospitality wouldn’t mean
so very much. It was a tradition,
anyway; almost a habit; an
inevitability. Like money, which
Ted never thought about very
much then, it was always there.
But in Germany a slice of bread,
a cigarette or a mug of precious
tea came from the heart. It
had to.
We talked of home, of
Toomalong and all New South
Wales, except the coast. Ted
didn’t know the coast so well.
And his visits to Sydney were
governed by protocol: the major
races, the wool-sales, the yearling
sales, the Show.
But the rest, north, west and
south, Ted knew like a book.
A studbook. He had an
astonishing knowledge of station
properties, old station families.
And he was an expert on fine
degrees of status. The Joneses,
for instance, he told me, although
they were reduced to a dairy-
farm on the homestead block,
were still the Joneses, of Mulga
Hill. And the Smiths, despite
their polo ponies and big parties
at Princes and the like, were just
the Smiths. Smith Park had been
a paddock of Mulga Hill.
He was cruel on the subject
of the Lawsons, who had
incurred his dislike by making
money in Toomalong and then
going to Sydney to live. Their
name and rank appeared regu-
larly in the social columns of the
Sydney paper. “Mr. and Mrs.
R. Lawson, of Darling Point,
and Jingaroo, Toomalong ...”
Which Ted regarded as some-
thing like a bogus claim to
knighthood. Jingaroo wasn’t a
station. It was the Lawson house
up near the hospital . . .
The Lawsons, then, were new
wine insolently pretending to be
old. But still, wine; not
common beer. Ted had a way
of saying “I can’t make So-and-
so out [So-and-so having com-
mitted some sin against the
p.-0.-w. creed]. His people have
money.”
But of the old families, the
station families, what Ted
thought of as the “real” people,
Ted would say “The Thin-
gunumys, of Thingummy-
bogga ...” As one might say
“The Plantagenets.”
There was a story he was
always telling, from the last war,
about an A.I.F. private, a
grazier, who caused a sensation
in Cairo or London by spending
more money than any of the
officers. The story varied. It
would be Cairo one time,
London the next. Two
squatters in uniform instead of
one. But the end was always
the same. Rather than lose such
a lucrative custom the flash
hotels took down the notice
“Officers Only,” and hung up
“Out of Bounds to Officers.
Other Ranks Only.” And the
rage and chagrin of the thwarted
officers was pitiful to see.
The story is old. And, as a
story, I have nothing against it.
For all I know, it may be true.
But Ted made it altogether too
poignantly personal. He took
an unwarranted and gloating
delight in it. And he told it too
many times. Seeing the quick
smile as he approached the
denouement, the blue eyes
searching the faces of his audi-
ence always embarrassed me.
JOUR, m'sieur. Com-
ment ga-va?"
I looked up and saw the
French padre. I said I was well.
He was a shabby little figure,
standing there at the foot of
George’s bed in his threadbare
French tunic without insignia of
rank, khaki puttees wound
unskilfully around his thin
calves. A haversack slung over
his meagre shoulder and the thin
dark hair retreating from a
pallid high forehead.
“Sit down, padre,” George
said, shifting his feet.
“Zank you.” The little padre’s
face was suddenly illuminated
with pleasure at recognising the
English words and answering
them correctly. He sat down
with dignity on the end of
George’s bed. Ted was sitting
on the end of mine.
The little padre visited every-
one in the Stalag hospital. I
enjoyed his visits. There was a
simple goodness, an innocent
gaiety to the man that was at
once delightful and impressive.
He had a great and, as it were,
a secular reputation in the
Stalag, where reputations were
difficult to earn and harder to
keep. Human frailties were
subjected to a searching light, a
pitiless microscope, in that com-
munity of crowded bodies and
restless spirits. The French
padre survived this public
inquisition without being aware
of it. As nearly as I could judge
he had no poses; not even the
pose of humility.
It was almost a legend, that
reputation of his for heroic
selflessness. He could have
been repatriated. He elected to
stay with his ragged parishioners.
He had poor health and he was
careless about food and warmth.
He lived, indeed, in a state of
forbidding poverty in a bare
cubby-hole over in the French
compound. And whatever scraps
of comfort came into his hands
—extra food, clothing, books —
anything that might be reckoned
necessary to make life endurable
in that cheerless place—found
their way out again. He rid him-
self of these things with a sort
of lamentable carelessness. He
gave them to anyone who asked
him for them and to those who
didn’t ask.
There were two professional —
if the term is not offensive-
men of God in the Stalag, and, by
what I am inclined to think of
as a singular coincidence, they
were both exceptional men.
High types of the human species.
And, in some respects, they were
as far apart as the poles.
John Lanceford, the British
padre, was a New Zealander, and
he was a type people who knew
little about Rhodes Scholarships
usually think of in connection
with the posthumous ideals of
Cecil Rhodes. As a matter of
fact, Lanceford wasn’t a Rhodes
Scholar; and as a matter of fact
a good many Rhodes Scholars
never fought for King or
Country or Empire or anything
else. But some of the best of
them did. Include Lanceford in
this class and you have a fair
idea of his character and
abilities.
“ ’Ow are the kranken blokes,
padre?” George asked. The
French padre looked puzzled.
George waved a tattooed hand.
“You know —the crook blokes —
the grand blesses —the tres
malades —Bill Murphy and the
Frenchman?”
“Zey go tonight, p’r’aps. Zey
are ready,” He said it calmly
enough.
“A Christian death, eh?”
George mused. “Funny thing.
Back home, a bloke y’ know
dies. Terrible thing, everyone
reckons. People are down in the
dumps. But here they just say
‘poor old Bill’ or ‘Joe’ or
‘George,’ as the case may be,
and wonder if there’s anything
left in his Red Cross box. Only
the padres to worry about him
having a Christian death. And
the doctors to make it easier, if
he’s lucky enough to be in here
and his people back home to
wonder about it ... ”
“That’s the way it is,” said
Ted.
“And no one wants to die,”
George said. “They all want to
go home.”
“I don’t mind dying,” Ted
said. “What I mean is ... I
don’t mind much . . . that isn’t
so important. But I want to get
home. I don’t want to rot here.
If they gave me a choice . . ,
they could shoot me like an old
horse so long as they me into
the home paddock first...” He
fell silent, frowning at the floor.
“A Christian death, eh?”
George murmured, still in the
grip of his strange mood.
“Onward Christian soldiers.
Marchin’ as to war. But what
if it is a war? Shoot thy
neighbor. How do they make
that out, eh, padre? How can a
soldier be a Christian, or a
Christian a soldier? Eh?”
Ted’s blue eyes frowned at
him. “What’s it matter? It’s
war. Kill or be killed. That’s
what we joined up for. That’s in
the contract. It’s not supposed
to be a Sunday-school picnic.”
“I’m askin’ the padre,” George
said. “Not you.” George was
smiling. But he was serious, too.
“Qu’est-ce quit dit ?”
I translated, laboriously.
“Peutetre c’est possible
lutter faire guerre sans
haine,” the little padre said
thoughtfully, almost' wistfully.
It was more a philosophical
speculation than an answer.
“What’s he say?” George
demanded.
“He says it might be possible
to struggle—fight—in war—with-
out hate,” I said.
“Yair, It might,” George said
sceptically.
But Ted’s chin jerked up and
his blue eyes flashed with a swift
thought. “Without hatred ...”
he said softly. Then, irritably,
“Chuck us over a smoke, Joe,
will you? I’m out.”
“Here.” I threw one over.
The French padre rose to go
“Now—l—mus’ go.” He smiled.
“Zat ees correct —no?”
“Perfect,” said George.
“English as she is spoke.”
The padre’s small white teeth
gleamed. He fished in his haver-
sack and pulled out a double
handful of tawny French
biscuits, “For all two,” he said
quickly, and turned away.
“Mercy barcoo,” George
called after him.
“Shouldn’t take these, I sup-
pose,” I said to Ted. “But he’ll
only give them to the next bloke.
Here, try one. They’re not
bad ...”
T>UT Ted had gone. He over-
took the French padre at the
door, and the two went out
together.
After that I gathered that Ted
was thinking deeply about
religion.
There was a change in him.
He was quieter and more dig-
nified, He went for long walks
around the barbed-wire peri-
meter by himself. He began to
learn French—to build up a
working knowledge of the
language from his schoolboy
learning. In some ways he was
more likeable.
And yet ... I should have
been pleased about this, I sup-
pose. But he was too tense. I
had an impression of dark and
desperate energy under his skin
of quietness. Whereas, once, if
a man bumped into him in a
mess-queue, Ted would curse him
and forget it, now he would
apologise. And he would be
glaring out of the corners of his
eyes at the man for days after-
wards . . . Heaven help that man
if he bumps into Ted again, I
thought . . .
There was something alarming
about this dramatic change ; the
knotted humility. I had the
impression that he was trying to
force salvation with both strong
hands. To throttle fate. I said
something to him one day.
“Look, Ted, not that I know
anything about religion or that
sort of thing—but I’d go quietly
if I were you. These sudden
enthusiasms can be—well-
dangerous ...” I stumbled for
words to express my meaning.
Which was hopeless, anyway. I
didn’t know.
I felt guilty as soon as I had
spoken. There, I thought, you
clumsy idiot. Throwing a
spanner into complicated and
mysterious depths . . . But to
my surprise Ted merely said,
quietly, “I know.”
“You know?" I said. “Then
what . . . ?”
Ted made a weary gesture.
“Oh, I thought I had some-
thing . . . some answer to the
hellish tangle of things . . . But
that, whatever it is—it’s gone
now. I just feel. . , nothing.”
“Oh.” There was really
nothing I could say. We were
walking at the time. We con-
tinued walking.
“That sort of thing—you have
it or you don’t—l suppose. A
leap in the dark. I don’t like the
dark. I feel now, perhaps, it
might have been better if I’d left
well alone. Before, perhaps, I
did have something. Because I
didn’t think about it. Now I
seem to have tried to go the
whole hog—and stopped. You
can’t do that, can you? I mean,
it’s one thing or the other. If
you stop you can’t go back. And
if you can’t jump you can’t.
That’s about the size of it, isn’t
it?”
“Don’t ask me, Ted,” I said,
distressed. “I don’t understand
these things.”
“Nothing to hang on to,” Ted
muttered, through suddenly-
clenched teeth. “That’s the
worst. No one to talk to about
them. That little French priest;
he was so —innocent. Protected.
Calm. I could have talked to
him. But he’s gone. Out to a
working camp, they tell me.
And then, there’s the language
difficulty. And besides ...”
I stopped and faced him.
“Look here, Ted. I don’t under-
stand these things. But if that’s
the way you feel why don’t? you
have a yarn with Lanceford?
That’s his job, after all. And
he’s a decent bloke.”


Wffmmm
§
V.
mi
m
W/m
mVmfi
iSPBK
la
‘■'■MW
tt it
mm
in
WBHKFfn
#¥y it.
m
iji
m
mm
m.
gSB
YOUR
TAILOR
TO SHOW YOU THE
LATEST DOUBLE WARP
AND DOUBLE WEFT
PATTERNS OF THE
FAMOUS PURE WOOL
(Trusabcr
-(Tlotk-
guaranteed never to fade or shrlnk
vl 13. i
“Lanceford?” Ted shook his
head. “No. I couldn’t talk to
him. He’s too —too much the
gentleman and sportsman. No.
I don’t like him, anyway.”
There was an unerring crooked
logic in this, although I was a
long way from seeing it at the
time. Ted could talk to the priest
of another nationality, another
religion. He could confide in
the mystic, but not in the man
of action. Lanceford was too
personal, too stinging a reminder
of Ted’s own potentialities and
defeats. Leaving religion out of
it, on the plane of personality,
character, simple achievement.
It was not quite true, as Ted
implied, that in Lanceford the
priest was obscured by the
gentleman. But in Ted’s
eyes it was true. He never
saw anything but the gentle-
man —a kind of gentleman
of action, an Elizabethan adven-
turer with a few centuries of
civilisation to make him respec-
table ... In that role Lanceford
was too successful for Ted to
be able to endure him. And so,
quite logically, he disliked him.
To confide in him was impos-
sible. It would be like being
forced to confess some carefully
disguised shame to oneself.
The other, the French priest,
was different. There was no
rivalry between them, no intoler-
able link.
As a matter of fact, I didn’t
care for Lanceford much myself.
But you couldn’t but admire the
man. He had come into the
Stalag like a fresh and salutary
breeze. He sacked a former bat-
man who had been passing him-
self off as a British padre. He
held church - parades. He
obtained special permission to
hold an Anzac Day service,
which was strange in an enemy
country and well attended. He
organised concert-parties, study-
groups, debating clubs, quiz-
sessions—anything and every-
thing to dissipate brutish apathy,
to stiffen morale. He walked
into the barbed-wire one night to
go to a dying man, shot while
attempting to escape, ignoring
the orders to go back . . . and
the Germans held their fire . . .
He wrote to Switzerland about
sporting gear and books, and he
plagued the commandant about
sanitation . . . And he lent the
prestige of his personality and
honorary rank to the task of
breaking the grosser rackets in
the British compound. A job
calling for tact, insight and no
mean political ability, since these
things had roots in rank,
seniority, in the very traditions
of the service, in a disordered,
pathological way ... A clear
eye was needed for that piece of
surgery, a still tongue on
occasion and a steady hand on
the surgeon’s instruments . . . lest
the good be amputated with the
diseased ...
“Come to think of it, I don’t
want to talk to anyone about it.
I talk too much,” Ted said
bitterly.
After that I left him as soon
as I decently could.
A FTER a time Ted began to
• talk of escaping. I decided
to go with him. And so did
Ossie Peters.
Early one morning in the first
timid spring three French
prisoners-of-war, parole men,
“trusties,” presented their passes
to the German guard on duty at
the main gates of the Stalag.
The guard was satisfied. We
walked through the gates and
the valley lay below us, in
pearly mists and tender green.
We were free.
For the moment, anyway.
The climax, the thing we had
planned and thought hard over,
and spent sleepless nights and
hungry days on for months,
hadn’t been so terrible after all.
No shouts of alarm, no bullets or
bayonets in the bade. No peal
of trumpets. Only a bad moment
as the guard frowned at us under
his helmet, fingering our passes.
“Ach so! ” The guard handed
them back, hoisted the leather
strap of his rifle and swung the
great gate of massive beams and
crossed barbed-wire. It scraped
on the ground.
We walked through the crisp
morning, the frost making
delicate patterns on the grass by
the road, melting in the sun.
Stepping out sturdily, our stout
boots soft with dubbin, French
trousers bound at the ankles with
short puttees, full haversacks
joggling. Ossie with his black
side-levers and comic pipe, Ted
with his beard . . .
A smell of coffee . . . the high
tower of the Gothic church . . .
a grumble of wheels as a cart
went by, drawn by slow cattle, a
heifer and a steer . . . tiny fields
and big barns and high, snow-
shedding roofs and vegetables
growing on the railway cut-
ting ... a fat grey brewer’s
horse twitching his tail outside
the Bierhaus, a military truck,
and a girl on a bicycle, swooping
down a hill like a bird, yellow
hair flying . . . the steady beat
of the road under our heels and
the taste of the morning . . .
We looked back and saw the
stained grey stone of the Schloss
against a glowing grey and blue
sky. I realised with a shock that
the village was below and behind
it; and behind the village was
the Stalag .. .
“What now, Ted?”
Ted looked round, his face
hard and keen above the
ridiculous beard, his eyes a
narrow vivid blue. “Can’t see
anyone. Off the road ...”
The forest came down to the
road. The leaf-mould and pine-
needles were a grateful cushion
under our feet, after the hard
road, and we felt the force of
the coolness of the forest
immediately. At first it was
pleasant, after the heat of walk-
ing, but as we penetrated the
forest it fell on us with a
mysterious and disillusioning
chill. It was strange ; so close to
the road and the sunshine, and
so cold and sombre under the
trees. The quietness had some-
thing to do with it, the softness
underfoot, the dampness and the
sickly-sweet decaying smell of
things. We shivered and hurried
on, not daring to talk loudly or
make any cheerful noises.
Before we got out of the forest
we were a little afraid of the
silence and shadows and trees.
The trees were not so very
large—small, rather, the majority
of them, compared to our gums.
Babies beside the redwoods of
of Canada. But the total impres-
sion was of size, bulk and depth.
An infinite and mysterious forest.
Like the sea, without the sea’s
changes of mood, and with
something of the sea’s power of
looming gigantic over human
gestures.
But the forest was beautiful,
in its dark way, with color in the
shadows. There were marvellous
tunnels of dim green light,
ribbons cutting and crossing.
Flowers. Only all this seemed
to have an independent forest
life, something quite apart from
the road and the fields. Here,
we were forgotten by the sun.
We saw a fawn once, and the
small slender thing stopped to
look at us with big eyes before
making off on its wobbly legs.
And the sight was comforting
But behind and beneath every-
thing the forest was sombre.
Cathedral-like, I think, is the
usual description. It was more
like a cathedral of the Druids.
I didn’t have the feeling that
we were alone in the world, that
we were explorers, as it is pos-
sible to feel in the Australian
bush. On the contrary, I felt
that this forest had been used
many times. Too many. I had
a vivid feeling that we had
stepped into a room, whose ugly
owner would be back in a
moment, with something nasty to
say. There is something about
the forest that is dark and weird.
The Black Forest —dev Schwartz-
wald.
That was later, of course,
when we really got into the
forest. When the cold and the
silence had penetrated us and the
dark trees moved. The Germans
have captured something of the
genius of their forests in their
music—and in their wars. “Sh!”
Ossie held up his hand. He had
been walking in front. His sloe-
black eyes slewed round. “ ’Ear
something?”
We listened. Then we shrank
behind trees. A moment later a
forest ranger, in his semi-military
uniform, carrying a double-
barrel shotgun, walked past in
the leafy green and gloom. So
close he could hardly miss see-
ing us, I thought, and held my
breath. I glanced at Ted and
saw he was smiling; a peculiar
smile —a sort of snarl. His blue
eyes were bulging oddly, showing
the whites. I reached out and
grabbed his arm. I thought he
was going to spring. His arm
was stiff as a board.
The man had gone. “Come
on,” Ted said calmly. “We’ve a
long way to go.”
ON the seventh day, at dusk,
we came out on jthe road
and limped down to the terminus
town. No one challenged us.
We bought three tickets, and
then slipped furtively out of the
town again, back to the forest.
The train left at nine o’clock in
the morning.
In the grey morning we
bathed thoroughly in an icy pool,
using the soap Ted had set aside
for the purpose, drying ourselves
afterwards on our soiled shirts.
We had brought clean ones. We
laughed and splashed and
exchanged rude pleasantries.
“Three forest nymphs,” Ted
said, looking at our bony out-
lines. Our spirits were high.
We shaved, with my razor,
what was left of the soap and
Ted’s mirror. We had no shav-
ing-brush, and' the soap didn’t
lather very well and the razor-
blade was blunt. It was a rough,
scraping, bloody affair —and
satisfying, too. We had been
prepared for this. We couldn’t
travel on a train looking like
forest vagabonds. We —or Ted,
rather —had prepared everything
very carefully. We had real
money Reichmarks, not
Lager gelt —and we had papers
that explained our presence on
a train, more or less plausibly.
Ted hacked and scraped his
beard off. Ossie kept his side-
levers.
We ate the last of the tinned
stuff. The last two days we had
been short of cigarettes—cutting
them down. But Ted had a few
English cigarettes left, and we
smoked one each in fine content-
ment.
“Well,” said Ted, smiling;
“might as well make a move.”
There was a huge bustle and
many troops on the station. A
riot of uniforms, black, grey,
greyish-green, olive, khaki.
German soldiers and their allies.
There wasn’t a great chance of
being spotted in that crowd.
Uniforms, even French uniforms,
were too common. It was the
man in civilian clothes who
excited curiosity.
Our train was in, and opposite
it, on the far side of the rails,
was a long troop-train. Carriages
for officers, cattle-trucks for the
men. The doors of the trucks
were open and the soldiers sat
with legs dangling out, tunics
open. A few soldiers, were
wandering down the tracks to die
engine, to get dixies filled with
boiling water for mint tea.
Engines whistled. The multi-
colored crowd on the station
scrambled. It was all confusing
and exciting after the silence of
the forest.
It was half-past eight by the
big railway clock. We got into
the compartment next to the
engine, taking a quick look at
the crowd. Workmen, women.
(Continued on next page)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
m*
■■■■ ■
fflti I!
wp
II
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
KOOM-ONXiY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 pep night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE,"
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
two soldiers, a private and under-
officer, a Luftwaffe pilot. Not
bad. There were three places
vacant on the track side. We
sat down, Ted and I facing the
engine, on the hard wooden seat,
Ossie opposite, next to a big,
fair, clean-shaven bull of a man
in leather shorts and braces,
stockings, thick-soled Alpine
boots and Tyrolean hat. An
expensive-looking rucksack stood
on the floor beside him. He
looked happy and relaxed —
something like an Australian
businessman going off for a
weekend’s golf. And he looked a
bit like Herman Goring, too.
I stared out the window. The
young men in the cattle-trucks
looked a tough lot. Seasoned
troops. The most likely-looking
German troops I had seen since
Greece. I supposed they were
going to the Russian front. It
was a nuisance not being able
to talk to Ted.
The big man made a remark
in German. Ossie looked blank.
The big man said it again. Ossie
spread his hands. “Nix vorstein
Deutsch,” he said plaintively.
That was fair enough, if a bit
dubious—we were supposed to
be French. Then, to my horror,
the man switched to French
“Comme il fait beau,” he said
genially. The brute wanted to
talk about the weather.
Ossie’s sloe-black eyes gleamed
dangerously, so I plunged into
the conversation. A fine day?
I said. My word it was a fine
day. A very day sent from the
heavens to delight poor men.
And rich men, too. It reminded
me of —all the fine days I had, 7
ever seen. And had I seen fine
days? Ah! The fine days I had
seen
“In France?” said the man
dangerously.
I blinked and nodded.
Horribly aware of the defi-
ciencies of my French, but with
a hazy hope that his was no
better.
He talked on, and then sud-
denly asked me what part of
France I came from. The Midi,
I said, thinking quickly. No
one could possibly mistake my
accent for Parisian. The north
—Alsace-Lorraine and so on—
was a bit too close to the bi-
lingual belt for comfort . . .
Then I cursed myself, wishing
I was smaller and darker . . .
The big man looked
thoughtful, and began to rum-
mage in his rucksack. He took
out a half-loaf of rye-bread and
some black sausage, and began
to carve with a pearl-handled
pocketknife. I looked out the
window. But 1 had a feeling he
was watching us, turning us over
in his mind. I could hear him
munching steadily.
I looked round and saw Ted
lighting an English cigarette.
I stared. It could be explained,
of course —by trade in the
Stalag, but still, it was a mad
thing to do.
The big man leant forward.
“Un cigarette anglais?” he said,
with a kind of grating smile.
Ted looked at him. “Oui,” he
said briefly.
The big man didn’t look away.
He raised a heavy hand. “Hullo,
Du!” The soldier flirting with
a girl looked up. So did the
underofficer and the pilot. The
big finger waggled imperiously.
“Hullo. Soldaten. Hier —in
other words,” the big man said
pleasantly, “an English
cigarette?”
'T'ED and Ossie moved like
A violent twins. Ossie’s fist
came smashing down on the back
of the clever gentleman’s thick
neck, and as he toppled Ted
smacked him face first down on
the floor ; clearing his path to
the soldier, striding between the
seats. The soldier was hit,
grunted and sat down. The
underofficer was seized and
tossed, like a hare between two
racing greyhounds. Slower in
my reactions, I found myself
staring at a Luger as Ted and
Ossie dropped from the door-
way, on to the ground between
the lines.
The Luger was pointing very
steadily at my abdomen. The
man behind it was the Luftwaffe
pilot. “Oop,” he said firmly.
I saw the end of the chase
from the ground. They caught
Ted and Ossie between the
trains.
We were dragged before a tall
young lieutenant. An under-
officer with a bleeding nose gave
a triumphant account of the
capture. The Luftwaffe man
added his bit. Strong hands held
us.
The lieutenant was one of the
train’s officers. He looked at his
watch and shrugged his silver
epaulettes, “Please yourself,” he
said—l could follow the gist of
his conversation —“Prisoners, or
r/ spies, or whatever they are —we
don’t want them. The train goes
in ten minutes. Why don’t you
shoot them?”
The underofficer looked
uneasy. He whispered some-
thing. The lieutenant jerked his
thumb significantly towards the
far side of the troop-train. “But
it’s up to you. They’re your
prisoners.” He turned to go.
I looked round, and in the
circle of faces I saw Tich. Tich,
the little guard from the Stalag.
“Tich!” I yelled.
Everyone turned to stare at
Tich. Tich looked uneasy and
tried to back away.
The lieutenant rapped out an
order and Tich stepped forward.
The little ex-trotting-driver was
terribly afraid of officers.
Tich stood painfully at atten-
tion, fingers straight against his
short thighs, elbows slightly bent.
His helmet looked too big for
him, and the belt with the big
metal buckle and the motto
Gott mit Uns —“God with us”—
was loose. His tongue flickered
nervously to his dry lips. The
lieutenant shouted at him.
Jaw Tich stammeringly
admitted, he recognised us—he
turned to peer at us— Jaw —all
three .. . Finally we were
handed over to Tich’s trembling
custody. A rather unusual and
high-handed business. But that
German lieutenant was a high-
handed sort of man.
Tich had been on leave, he
told us morosely, as we trooped
ignominiously back to the
station. Now ~. But orders are
orders. To console him we gave
him our Reichsmarks, and told
him to buy something to eat and
drink on the train. We were
locked up at the station while
Tich made his purchases.
We were ushered into a cattle-
truck by Tich, very stern and
soldierly in front of the crowd,
very friendly inside. The train
chugged out of the station. Tich
unwrapped mysterious parcels,
chuckling. Bread. Cheese.
Sausage. And ach so
schnapps. Two bottles. We
would have a good trip. The
truck rattled and swayed.
Ribbons of blue sky flashed
through the shutters. We would
have a good trip,
wolfed the food. We
hadn’t realised how hungry
we were. We drank schnapps.
That put life and warmth into
us. Tich shared the food but —
nein, nein —he held up a protest-
ing hand as Ted offered him the
bottle. He couldn’t drink with
us—he’d get into trouble . . .
Besides . . . Tich chuckled—we
were dangerous men. Well —just
a drop, then. No more
though . , . nein. Nix.
We became very matey there,
sprawled out on the dirty straw,
passing the bottle. Ted showed
us some photographs of Caloola.
Tich showed us photographs of
his wife and children. Ossie
showed us a photograph of his
Greek girl—who was beautiful —
and finally, furtively, Tich
showed us a crumpled piece of
paper on which was written, in
pencil, in a bold hand
Dear Dig.,
This Jerry isn’t a bad poor
bastard. Look after him.
( Signed) Bluey Jones, NX-
The unknown Bluey Jones
had commanded Tich to present
this document to the first Aus-
tralian soldier he met when
Germany lost the war, Tich said.
Tich didn’t care greatly about
the war. He was an easy-going
Austrian, anxious to keep out
of trouble. But he was very fond
of his wife and his four pretty
daughters.
Ted began to sing.
We’re three little lambs who have
lost our way,
Baa, baa, baa.
Three black sheep who have
gone astray
Baa, baa, baaa.
Gentleman rankers out on a
spree
Damned from here to eternity
Lord have mercy on such as we
Baa, yah, baa.
“Damn fine song that, Joe —
don’t y’ reckon?” Ted was be-
coming drunk.
“Plenty of baas in it,” I said.
“Come on, drink up,” Ted
urged. “Ossie. Joe. Tich, too.
Everyone drink. It’s on the
house. Out of the escape
money.”
He put his arms around
Ossie’s shoulders and around
Tich’s and sang lustily. They
made an odd trio. Ted and
Ossie with dirt and dried blood
on their faces —the little
Austrian.
I went to sleep with the song
ringing in my ears.
Baa.
Yah.
Baa.
YI/HEN I woke up it was dark
’ * inside the truck, dusk out-
side. Tich had opened the door
and was sitting with his back to
us, his short legs dangling out-
side the truck. Ragged moun-
tains were outlined against a
bluish pale wash of sky, and
below the hurtling cinder track
there was a fearful long drop to
dark valleys.
Ted came over and squatted
on his heels. He offered me a
cigarette and I took it. Ted lit
the other one. The last two
cigarettes. “We should get in
about ten, Tich says,” Ted jerked
his head towards Tich’s
unconscious back. “Been sit-
ting there for half an hour. Rum
little bloke, isn’t he? Be a joke
to give him a push.”
“You wouldn’t do that—
would you?” I stared at him.
You could never tell with Ted.
Ted laughed. “Oh you
know —just one of those queer
ideas a man gets. And he seems
to be asking for it, doesn’t he,
sitting there like that. Just a
gentle push and he wouldn’t have
a chance.” Ted rocked on his
heels, puffed at his cigarette.
“Come to think of it, why not?
It’s war. He’s our enemy.”
The idea struck me with a
peculiar horror. Apart from
anything else —the ethics of
pushing an unsuspecting man to
his death —we owed our lives to
Tich. And he was so kindly,
innocent —so small a fly in the
web of war.
Ted laughed softly. “Don’t
worry. It’s just an idea . , .
Then we could hop off when the
train slows down . . . Y’know,
Joe, trains remind me of going
home. Going home from school.
We’d eat ourselves silly—pies
and things—at the refreshment-
rooms —just to celebrate. Smoke
like billyoh. Sneak in and have
a beer when we were big enough
to pass muster —just to show off.
Oh, we were great toffs, regular
young bloods, going home from
school on the train.”
The tip of his cigarette glowed
in the darkness.
“Coming into Toomalong,”
Ted’s voice was remote. “All
the little stations”—he recited
them—“the trucking-yards ; the
sun going down on that big, bare
red hill behind the town. If it
was winter, nearly dark.
Summertime, a light on the dry
thistles. Shadows in the lagoons.
Knowing everyone on the
station, all the names they were
singing out as they threw the
parcels into the luggage-van,
even the empty cream-cans.
Tracey’s black dog. Everything.
You knew you were home.”
We rushed through the night.
“Driving out with Dad by the
river road. Black’s Hill. The
culvert Dad was always going
crook about. The place where I
shot my first duck. You know,
Joe, sounds queer, but I always
got the same feeling going home.
I’d get it again, even now. As
though, not just that I was going
home, but as though I was going
into things. Into —reality, you’d
call it, I suppose. All the rest,
whatever was outside, didn’t
matter. It wasn’t real. Later on,
I could have a hell of a good
time in Sydney. Then, in the
middle of it, I’d think, this
doesn’t matter. Worked the
other way, too. I could have a
bad time on Caloola. And that
was real. That’s a funny way to
feel, isn’t it? One place real,
and the rest of the world
shadows.”
“Me, too,” Ossie said. I
hadn’t noticed him sitting there.
“What?” Ted sounded
annoyed.
Ossie seemed to shuffle on his
behind. “Aw, just what y’ said.
I got a queer sort of feeling like
that in Greece, Ted,” Ossie said,
humbly and apologetically.
“Oh,” Ted stretched. “Well,
I’m going to have a sleep.”
I was soon asleep again myself.
The rough rhythm, the chatter-
ing, squeaky song of wheels and
rail ... I slept and I dreamed.
In my dreams Ted was killing the
ranger. The two of them twisting
and rolling in a forest of black
shadows and dim green light, the
knife-hand rising and falling . . .
the face of the victim changed
to Ossie ... and then it was Ted.
Two Teds rolling and fighting
with demoniacal energy, snarl-
ing and clawing, letting the life
out of each other in bright jets
of blood . . .
The dream was so horribly
vivid I woke; or, rather, I half-
woke, to see the night sky and
the stars and Tich’s squat body
outlined blackly. I saw Tich’s
black shoulders and Ossie’s out-
stretched hand, half-closed in a
patch of moonlight and I saw a
tall tiptoeing figure. But I didn’t
know which was dream, which
the living pattern of the night.
/"YSSIE snored. Ted tiptoed in
his socks. He was stealing
behind Tich. The snoring
stopped ; and creaking and com-
plaining and banging noises were
loud as we rocked through the
night. Ted was creeping up on
Tich to murder him—that was
plain. But it might be a dream
and Ted might be busy murder-
ing the ranger, Ossie —and
himself.
It was like that. Mixed-up.
Fantastic and clear, like a dream.
Only, as Ted tiptoed, the half-
closed hand closed over his
ankle.
He stopped. The tall shadow
stopped and whispered fiercely.
“Let go. By God, let go.”
The dark hand seemed to
tighten its grip.
And now I was really awake,
sitting up.
Ted bent down, whispering.
Then, his voice rising in a sort
of scream, “All right!” he came
crashing down on Ossie’s body.
And the two shadows joined in
a fighting, threshing heap. Mak-
ing a tremendous row.
“Was ist das?” Tich shouted.
I caught the glitter of his
revolver. “Mein Gott
Teufelen —Upstand !”
But he might as well have
shouted to the winds of the
night. I was terribly afraid he
would start shooting from sheer
panic—and shoot me.
They were upright now, the
two wild shadows, fighting and
sobbing. As the train looped
round the reflected fires of the
engine lit the two faces luridly,
then, as the train picked up
speed, one figure lurched back
with a grunt—into nothing.
Ted’s body Int the ledge of
cinders and bounced over the
edge, twisting and turning. into
dark depths.
“Was ist das?” Tich said
grimly. The little man had an
inkling of the truth now, I
think. The beam of his torch
caught Ossie’s white face and
tangled black hair, leaning
against the side of the cattle-
truck, spent.
“He’s gone,” Ossie said.
“Poor Ted. He was bad. He hit
me when I was drunk,”
He said it with an odd kind of
simple wonder and regret, and
wiped his face on his sleeve.
The wheels raced on.
'T'ED had a military funeral;
the padre saw to that. And
the padre wrote a very nice letter
to the Deans, giving a rather
idealised picture of Ted. Good
soldier; strong comrade ; that
sort of thing. Blotted out in
action —the best way to go . ~
It was decent of the padre.
And perhaps there was truth in
the picture, too, below the
broken surface of things . ~.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 21-
Yearly Subscription 22/6
Australian Historical Sketches
Many Strange Tales
By M.H. ELLIS
THERE are times when
every historian wishes that
the figures of the past would
come to life—particularly
when one of the newer type of
Australian historical novels is
published.
The characters and events in
these are largely based on
reality. But there is a Punch-
and-Judy air about them which
would amuse contemporaries as
they recognised each other, cut
out of literary cardboard, per-
fectly flat, all holding forth in
the same mechanical and forma-
lised squeak which is one of the
properties of the fictionist who
deals with the Botany Bay era.
The weapons of these modern
historical writers are a copy of
the Historical Records of Aus-
tralia and/or New South Wales,
a contemporary newspaper to
quote costume advertisements
from, and a diary or two, or a
book of reminiscences. Out of
these suitable portions are carved
as setting for a scarcely-existent
plot for a bored reader to go to
sleep over and to excite the
admiration of that type of
literary critic who believes any-
thing to be “accurately historical
and picturesque” if it contains
a flogging or the jangling of
convict chains.
The originals of the characters
would certainly get a lot of fun
as they perused these represen-
tations of themselves —ladies
mouthing the literary argot of
judges and civil servants straight
from mouldy journals;
Governors keeping posterity
posted in events via their
dinner-tables through stately and
exact quotation of their dis-
patches to the Colonial Office ;
panjandrums who always address
their spouses as “my love” and
all other females as “madam,”
in each case preceded usually by
the word “pray.”
These techniques produce
pictures very similar to wax-
works or to those pictures of
Highlanders which the Germans
used to print in “Simplicissimus.”
Often the dramatis personce is
taleworthy. No roaring gold-
camp ever produced so many
personalities worthy of great
fiction as Botany Bay, which
could keep a Dickens going for
a lifetime. But how dull they
can be—and need not be with
a writer capable of projecting
himself or herself into the times.
In a community which did not
reach the 10,000-mark in popula-
tion until it was 23 years old
there was a collection of talent
for every need, all living in a
vital, seething, dangerous con-
text almost without parallel in
the history of colonisation. It
was almost impossible to leave
the front-door in Botany Bay
without stubbing a big-toe on
the makings of an immortal
character or the abandoned
beginnings of a plot.
4- , +
The cast included Fellows of
the Royal Society, scientists with
world reputations in their
spheres, soldiers who had fought
everywhere from the American
War of Independence (or even
earlier ones) to the Peninsula,
men who had been as far into
the Polar Seas or the interior of
Africa as anybody living, men
who had circumnavigated the
globe, who had pursued rajahs
and who understood life as it
was lived amid the glitter and
pomp of lohn Company's India
of Wellesley’s regime or the
dimmer recesses of Newgate.
In any hundred yards of old
George-street you might meet,
on some particular morning
within the decades 1800-20, for
instance, Hunter, who had been
with Wolfe at s the taking of
Quebec, or Bligti of the Bounty,
or Macquarie, who had watched
the fall of Tippoo Sahib’s power,
while the brigade-major who
now rode with him, John Golden
Antill, carried the colors of the
73rd Regiment into the breach
at Seringapatam on a hot May
day in 1799. You might meet
King, who had sailed the oceans
around many times, the trusted
friend of Phillip.
Or again you might merely
come upon Mr. George
Crossley, a gifted attorney, who
had achieved fame and trans-
portation by putting a fly into a
dead man’s mouth so that he
could swear that there was life
in him when his inert hand was
guided to sign a will. And with
him there might be Mr, Michael
Massey Robinson, whose neat
calligraphy is most common of
all in the official records of this
period, since he was long the
chief clerk of the Governor’s
secretary and of some of the
courts, and whose fame as black-
mailer, embalmed in Leach’s
Cases, was as great as his
prestige as local poet laureate.
Soldiers, sailors, builders,
explorers, painters, naturalists,
astronomers, a doctor of laws or
two, the first white natives of
Australia, the first explorers of
Australia —all these surged and
quarrelled or rotted amid the
goats and the pigs, the pet
wallabies and the parrots and the
kangaroo-dogs which teemed in
Sydney town in the earlies.
shops glittered with loot
from everywhere from Aldgate
to Rio. Commerce, especially
liquid, was inevitablylively.
The officers had adventures in
trade. The jailer kept a pub
(decorated with the scales of
justice) opposite the gates of the
chokey, whence he purveyed full
pints to his clients due for a
little cheering-up before their
last expeditions to the Sandhills
gallows.
Dr. Harris, one of the earliest
inhabitants, who had originally
regarded his lot in the colony
with despair, traded to good
effect, which was evident in his
grand mansion, Ultimo House,
which had its deer-park, the
habitat of Australia’s first
guinea-fowls. Dr. D’Arcy Went-
worth, who had a legendary
reputation as a retired highway-
man —he, as a youth of spirit,
having fitted in practice on High
Toby with the practice of
medicine and weekend visits to
his patron Earl Fitzwilliam—
combined big business with his
job as chief of police and magis-
trate, offices in which he earned
the highest encomiums from his
superiors.
You might have turned from
contemplation of these two
grandees at the beginning of the
century to watch a small cart
turning out of the jail gates some
morning, thus coming to under-
stand why the jailer’s clients
needed those comforting
elevenses which he sold them.
The cart is short and high,
with a sleepy horse in the shafts.
It has a single-board seat across
the back of it, on which three
men just fit tightly. On the floor
behind them is a coil of rope and
something that looks like a large-
sized Abyssinian fly-whisk. On
the seat are Mr. Wright, who is
going to be hanged, his execu-
tioner in the middle, to whom he
is inveighing in blistering Doric
on the iniquities of the worthy
citizen who has brought about
his downfall. The third man,
when he is called to give
evidence, later cannot remember
what is said. As the worn hubs
go tock, tock, tock under him
and the wheels jolt over the
stones of Sydney he is giving his
I mind exclusively to what is going
to happen to himself presently.
For the fly-whisk is being carried
for him —he is to have fifty of
the best at the foot of the gallows
with it.
Here, at the beginning of the
century, is Bunboe “dead
brother”—who can wander at
will among the blacks because
they think he is the ghost of a
chieftain returned to them.
Here is Andrew Thompson, sent
out for burning a pile of straw
when 16 years old and now the
colony’s millionaire, with the
finest private house in town. The
tale of his adventures and gal-
lantry in the Hawkesbury flood
of 1806 would make a novel in
itself. The coping-stone of his
career will be set when he leaves
a Governor a quarter of his
fortune and when the Governor
writes the epitaph, which may
still be read on his gravestone at
St. Matthew’s churchyard in
Windsor.
Here is George Caley, explorer
and a local Boswell and Sir
Joseph Banks’s collector, and
D. D. Mann, the commissary
clerk who is the first man to
write a book about New South
Wales entirely from his own per-
sonal observation. Bass and
Flinders for a time walk the
streets. Artists, bond and free,
Lewin, Lycett, laterr Richard
Read, the pupil of Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and many others are
busy with their colors. We may
meet Nicholas Bayly, who is
brother to a general, and who
becomes factotum and offsider to
George Johnston during the
Rebellion. He owns a large
estate on South Creek, and his
agitations almost upset a
Governor.
+ +
Sea-captains abounded, raw
fellows trading in colonial brigs,
haughty magnates of the East
India trade who presently
retired to found great estates and
rich dynasties—the Brookses and
the Kents, the Reibys and the
Raines. Pursers and their
offsiders came ashore, nearly as
plentifully, ranging in size and
shape from “Little Jack’
Palmer, formerly purser of the
Sirius, to the giant George
Evans, late naval storekeeper of
the Cape of Good Hope, who
became the first penetrator of
the Illawarra, discoverer of
Bathurst Plains and the Mac-
quarie and Lachlan Rivers and
one of Australia’s earliest land-
scape artists and booksellers.
They are almost as quaint as
the journalists, one of whom was
a West Indian native who had
served the “Times” and whose
son was once assaulted with a
bayonet, and the judges, who
numbered among themselves
Justice Jeffery Bent, aged 33,
who refused to come ashore until
they had given him an 11-gun
salute, and Mr. Justice Barron
Field, aged 30, dramatic critic
of the “Times,” “distant cor-
respondent” of Charles Lamb,
and above all author of that
lovely first Australian poem:
Kangaroo, kangaroo, spirit of
Australia
That redeems from utter failure
This fifth part of the earth,
Which would seem an afterbirth,
Not conceived in the beginning
(For God blessed his work at first
And saw that it was good),
But emerged at the first sinning
When the ground was therefore curst,
And hence this barren wood.
Mr. Judge-Advocate Richard
Atkins, also, for a time lent color
to the Bench. Who would
dream, watching Mr. Atkins
(whose brother the Admiral left
a leg behind on the Glorious
First of June) weaving down the
street full of good liquor and
rheumatics, that he is a protege
of the Court of St. James, where
one of his descendants will
presently become Master of the
Household?
And Mr. Commissary Allan —
way for Mr. Commissary-General
Allan, please! He passes, as it
were, with shawns and trumpets,
wearing “two epaulettes and a
feather in his hat” to do justice
to his importance and influence.
For is not his wife “sister to
Mrs. Harry Johnston, and Mrs.
Harry Johnston mistress to
Colonel MacMahon, who is
private secretary to the Duke of
York?” His appearance reminds
us of Government House, always
a favorite stage for scenes in
Australian historical novels. It
normally is pictured as a starchy
reservoir of ceremonious plati-
tude in which there is nothing
but bowing and scraping and
polysyllables.
Nothing like that about
Sydney Government House in its
prime! Did not Mr. Broughton,
the assistant commissary, have
to be almost dragged away from
the great Mr. Allan at one of its
jamborees lest he assassinate
him? It was the home of the
“current scandal of the town,”
the “hoarse horse-laugh” of
those who became by “Bacchus’
mantling bowl inspired,” the
whispered pun from Joe Miller,
the tittering quiz directed at the
bushwhacker who had somehow
found his way in.
And, rising above all in its
prime, the Scottish joviality of
Lachlan Macquarie, a real High-
lander, who felt he was going
teetotal in a younger day when
he signed a pledge that at dinner
he would drink no more than
“twelve glasses, three of those
only to be Madeira and the rest
hock or claret,” and whose
sense of humor led him at Cape-
town on the way out to Aus-
tralia to persuade the bagpipe
band to play all the evening to
annoy a Lowland friend one
with the same surname as the
editor of the “Sydney Morning
Herald.” There was nothing
formal about his speech in
private life, however ceremonial
he may have been in private.
Even linguistic adepts like little
Mr. Greenway, the architect—
whom we once see dancing
“monkey-like” before the dock-
yard gate shouting “Puppy!
Monkey!” at poor Mr. Nichol-
son its manager —paled before
his rude soldierly language,
delivered, one might opine from
the fact that his local nickname
was “Sandy,” in the authentic
Gaelic sing-song of the Western
Isles.
No, there was nothing stilted
or pasteboard or even dull about
life in general in New South
Wales, where any week a fireball
might roll the editor of the local
“Gazette” off his chair (as one
did), a whale might upset and
drown a midshipman in the
harbor, a burglar might burgle
Government House (poor
Hunter was a victim), a 27ft.
snake might be found wallowing
in the creek in the centre of
Parramatta, the Governor’s aide-
de-camp might climb a mast for
an after-dinner bet and fall
and break his leg, a jocund crew
could heave a captain into the
harbor and be disappointed that
he could swim, and officers out
for an evening’s fun could batter
down the Stigginses with palings
ripped from the nearest fence.
Naked blacks, even when
Macquarie was king, still
occasionally used Macquarie-
place as a stadium. Captain
Case, R.N., once enlivened a
Sydney morning by firing ball
across the bows of a local
schooner in the Cove because it
had failed to salute his naval
flag. Once the lower half of the
town had to be cleared because
the Three Bees in the Cove was
afire with her cannon loaded
and bombardment was expected
at any moment. Dean William
Macquarie Cowper carried a
personal memory of that
incident (the only projectile
which reached the town landed
on Captain Piper’s desk) down
to the year of the foundation of
the Commonwealth.
Any morning somebody might
be flogged at the lumber-yard
(where The Bulletin office now
stands) or hangfed at the Sand-
hills. Any day troops might have
to be sent to curb that exuber-
ance of the natives of Appin
who, in 1814, announced that
they would wipe-out the white
population at the rise of the June
full moon.
The place might be sizzling
at a duel between Captain
Macarthur or between Mr.
Campbell the Governor’s secre-
tary and somebody else, or a
libel action by the Reverend Mr.
Marsden, basely accused by Mr.
Campbell of selling liquor to the
South Sea natives, and introduc-
ing to the idyllic regions of the
mid-Pacific “that tiny race of
animals which, on being boiled,
do not prove to. be lobsters.”
And always there are com-
mercial gentlemen’s agents
wandering the town whispering
of the bankruptcy of their prin-
cipals, so that those honest men
might buy in large issues of their
own promissory-notes for the
price of wastepaper. This excit-
ing practice, while it lasted,
made commercial life of Sydney
somewhat like that round the
tables at Monte Carlo.
4- +
The women matched the men.
Mrs. Elizabeth Macarthur, whose
normal habitat was down in a
bark-hut near the Camden Ford
rather than in her mansion at
Parramatta, was a fitting foil for
young Mr. William Charles
Wentworth, fresh back from his
English school, who, within 21-
years of attaining his majority,
acquired an estate on the
Hawkesbury (which his family
still owns), became Acting
Provost-Marshal, wrote a poem
to his lady-love, won the leading
stakes at the local races (he must
have been the tallest jockey on
record, being over 6ft, high) and
crossed the Blue Mountains.
Mrs. Macquarie, accustomed
to the society of earls, but not
above fishing in the Sound of
Mull with a long line, sat at one
end of a high society, the other
end of which was graced by a
lady known as Tamborine Sal,
chatelaine of a gallant officer’s
estate, where in a later genera-
tion the master was supposed to
have buried his wife’s unwanted
infant under the front doorstep
so that she might remember her
breach of marital decorum every
time she went in or out of his
mansion house.
All this scenery comes to life
very easily except to the fiction-
writers, who seem to have
become completely record-
bound. To them such characters
as Dicky Dowling (who
enlivened the intervals between
horse-races on the Hyde Park
course by personally carrying
14st. to victory over a 50yd.
course against an unencumbered
adversary who ran once back-
wards and once forward over the
distance) are unknown.
Some day an annalist capable
of writing an Australian Heart
of Midlothian, with all its rich
and lively dialogue and convinc-
ing realism, will discover them
and find in them a goldmine.
For there is no doubt but that
early Sydney is a vital place for
an imaginative novelist to
explore. The Reverend John
Dunmore Lang wrote that its
denizens didn’t
live quiet as they might and did
—Nay,
Proud of expulsion from the British
Isles
Some glory in their shame. Very
strange tales
Are told of gentlemen of New South
Wales.


fortify:
"s.
atis fyr
"g
s Utat
Wi
SCISk
Me
Ufa
/ JSr q *>■ Yfc
r M& MALT
.%Ste ffi & 9
HOPS $
® oi
©I
0
V
©
o>
w*-r
*V, At)*
P r , T* r T
i f- IS :,
te-
BREWED &
BOTTLED BY
TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
58.167
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney owners won the
rich Doomben double —Ten
Thousand and Cup—with True
Leader and French Echo, and
good prices were obtained about
the pair by the respective stables,
which had a tidy financial
result. True Leader on Saturday
added the Doomben Flying
Handicap for good measure.
French Echo, winner of the
Cup, had shown consistency, as
four outings prior to the Cup
had yielded three thirds and a
win at Randwick (Coronation
Day Windsor Handicap). The
colt indicated fitness for the Cup
when he finished third to Sweet
William and Earldom in the
Carnival Handicap on the
opening day of the meeting.
Unlucky Cup runner was New
Zealander Earldom (second).
Melbourne galloper Double
Blank was third, so the place-
getters represented widely-spread
interests. Earldom the previous,
Saturday had crossed the
winning-line first in the Carnival
Handicap, but had lost on pro-
test to Sweet William, who ran
fourth in the Cup. Hydrogen,
Cup favorite, was never a
danger.
First decided in 1933, the
Doomben Cup has been run at
varying distances. Four changes
have been made, but since 1946
it has been decided at 11 furlongs
less 22yds. G. Moore, who won
on French Echo, was also astride
Rio Fe, a Melbourne galloper,
when he made record time for
the present distance, 2min.
13jsec. in 1949. Ten visiting
horses have won this Cup.
Visit of the three-year-old
Sydney gelding First Romance to
Queensland proved successful, as
he won at Southport, and again,
three days later, on Doomben
Cup day. A member of F. W.
Kennedy’s team, First Romance
is by A 1 Dakhil (imp.) from Gay
Romance by Gay Lothario (imp.)
and traces back to Carbine.
Gay Romance was a speedy race
mare, her wins' inducting the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes,
• • • •
Backers were on the spot in the
Flemington Grand National
Steeplechase, run over three
miles and one furlong, Japaddy,
11-to-4 favorite, making his
record four wins in his last five
starts. He scored by a head from
Don Sion and Accentuate.
Clever riding tactics adopted by
Ron flail brought success. The
aged Mac Rob gelding had won
with 12st. at his prior start and
was in the Grand National with
two pounds less.
Japaddy’s 11.12 is the greatest
weight carried by a Flemington
Grand National winner since
Redleap was successful with
12.3 in 1933. Time for the race,
6min. s|sec., was nowhere near
the best, 6min. 2sec., made by
Victory March in 1943. Course
record (6.0|) for the 25 fences
to be crossed is held by Gold
Watch and was made in August,
1943. Gold Watch carried a
light weight, 9.8. Early winners
of this tough contest were called
upon to fairly carry the grand-
stand. Redleap won with 13.3,
Sussex 13.1, Bribery 12.11 and
Mountain God 12.7.
Graft Spear, winner of the
first Flemington Two-year-old
Mile, had no worth-while form
to attract backers and went to
the post at 25 to 1. The colt is
a son of imported Flare Path
and Nem Song, a Spearhead
(imp.) mare from Even Song by
Land of Song (imp.), a family
which has produced several
winners. Graft Spear should
prove a good sticker at three
years, as his background is a
staying one. Flare Path is a
half-brother to Dubonnet, a
winner of the Goodwood Cup
and also to High Chancellor, a
good winner in England and sold
to the U.S.A. for 15,000gns.
Flare Path is from the same
“Our Australian visitor, old boy!”
family as the successful Kia-Ora
sire Channel Swell (imp.).
Sir Owen, 5-to-4 favorite,
winner of the second division of
the Flemington Mils, is by
Woodruffe (imp.) from Lady
Tudor. Woodruffe won races in
England over sprint courses, and
once was successful at a mile
and a quarter. He’s a Bois
Roussel stallion. Sir Owen had
won at his previous start at
Caulfield.
Race form said nothing for
Sledman, 66-to-l winner of the
Canterbury Welter; he had
finished last at his previous out-
ing a fortnight earlier, and had
then been ridden by the stable
apprentice, D. Olive, who again
had the mount last Saturday.
Olive was practically unknown
to punters, but he showed skill in
landing the totally-neglected
Sledman first past the post.
Bets to the odds of £lOOO and
more indicated that Joy Lad v*s
strongly fancied by connections
for the Canterbury Flying, and
he carried out his part of the
contract by winning cleverly for
his new owners J. D. Mullan and
Randwick trainer T. Clune.
Formerly raced by Mrs. C. Ives
and trained by Dan Lewis, the
colt was sold a few months ago
and was having his first run in his
new colors. It was Joy Lad’s first
success since September last, but
he hadn’t been produced many
times, because his former owner
didn’t approve of too much rac-
ing for young thoroughbreds.
She had much success with
Victory Lad.
It paid Sydney backers and
others in Brisbane to follow
George Moore, during the
Doomben Cup carnival; he
landed the main double, with
both his mounts at double figures.
Moore also won other races at
the carnival, but generally it
doesn’t pay to consistently follow
any jockey. For example,
Moore’s mounts at Sydney meet-
ings for the season, like those
of practically all other riders,
have shown thick-and-thin sup-
porters a loss, in his case, of
about £l6. The only jockey
with 10 or more wins to show his
followers an overall profit is A.
Ward (£25), who is now in the
East and won’t be returning to
Sydney for some months.
Follow jockeys and go broke is
still something for punters to
remember.
Delville Wood, Genetout and
Midstream, three imported sires,
are having an interesting tussle
for winnings by their progeny
(number of races won) in the
season which ends on July 31.
The first-named, with a slender
lead over Genetout with three
meetings to go, went one further
ahead when Sledman won at
Canterbury. Midstream is
closely pressing Genetout, sire
of Doomben Cup winner French
Echo. Brueghel, fourth on the
list of successful sires, was
foaled in 1932 —10 years before
Delville Wood:
Any racetrack accommodating
upwards of 100 horses, or even
a smaller number, should have
an ambulance-officer in attend-
ance each galloping morning in
case of accident. In the past
couple of weeks jockeys have
been involved in falls at Rose-
bery, and on each occasion a
club official has had to run to a
telephone and call an ambulance
to have the injured lads removed
to hospital for treatment or for
observation. This is a matter the
Trainers’ Association should
bring under the notice of the
Sydney Turf Club.
Two more Saturdays of
Sydney racing remain before the
1952-53 seasons ends, but
jockey N. Sellwood and trainer
T. Smith already have won the
premiership in their respective
fields. They didn’t take long to
establish leads over rivals, and
they have retained the advantage
throughout the racing year.
V * *
England relied on its “old
brigade” in the third Test, the
average age of the side being
around 33. Only one is under
30 —Graveney (26). The Aussies
had five in their twenties
(Harvey, Hole, Hill, De Courcy
and Davidson) and one, Archer,
19. Trueman and Benaud, the
12ths, are both 20-odd.
Hutton was dropped from the
third 1948 Test, after making
only 20 and 13 in the second.
His omission caused great sur-
prise. Emmett, who hit 141 for
Gloucester against the present
Australians, was chosen instead,
but fared no better. Hutton,
restored for the fourth Test,
played two good knocks, 81 and
57. With Washbrook he figured
in two century opening-partner-
ships in this match, a Test record.
Edrich, recalled for the third
Test of the present series, first
played in in 1938, against
Australia, but his six knocks
then produced only 67 runs.
O’Reilly was his destroyer on
almost every occasion. (Edrich,
incidentally, won the D.F.C. in
the last war.)
A last-minute selection for
Hammond’s 1946 team, Edrich
earned his place as a Test all-
rounder. Besides taking a use-
ful number of wickets, he hit-up
71 and 119 in the second Test,
and in the third was given out,
1.b.w., for 89, to a possibly
doubtful decision. Some Aus-
tralian fieldsmen thought the ball
had first touched the bat; one
English newspaperman made the
stunning claim that he had
“seen the mark” on the bat where
the ball had hit!
Hassett’s side has been running
into some of the Australians
playing as professional cricketers
in England. There were Walsh
and Jackson with Leicester (they
played against the 1948 team,
too), Dooland with Notts,
Grieves (Lancashire) and Tribe
and Livingston (Northampton).
Others, of course, not en-
countered, are playing league
cricket.
Tribe and Dooland each
played in a couple of Tests
against England in 1946, but
neither bowled with any great
success. Both have done very
well in England, as have most of
these Australians. Tribe and
Walsh both achieved the
“double” last year—loo wickets
and 1000 runs. Apropos, Fred
Brown, who captains Northamp-
ton, just missed it last year—he
got his thousand runs but was
one wicket short (99).
* * *
Australian Peter Thomson
again ran second in the British
Golf Open, running up a beauti-
fully consistent 72, 72, 71, 71 <I for
286, equal with U.S. amateur
Stranahan and the pros Dai
Rees (G. 8.) and Cerda (Argen-
tine). But four strokes ahead of
them all was the world's best
golfer, American Ben Hogan,
who, with 73, 71 and 70, started
the last round a stroke ahead of
Thomson and Rees and turned
in a final 68 for a demoralising
282.
* * ♦
The Wallabies had a win
against Rhodesia last midrweek,
and, on Saturday, drew with
Rhodesia, 8-all, at Ndola.
In Sydney, University beat
Manly 9-0, Gudsell, Piper and a
solid bunch of forwards being
outstanding for University,
Barry, Conroy, Ellis and Allen
doing good work for Manly.
Both fullbacks were in form,
Piper, besides playing a sound
positional game, scoring a good
try, and Barry, hotly pressed,
making no mistakes.
In other Rugby Union club
games, competition leaders
Eastern Suburbs were lucky to
hold Drummoyne to a 3-all
draw; Eastwood beat Randwick,
9-8 ; St. George beat Northern
Suburbs, 15-9, and Gordon beat
Parramatta 13-12.
A few years back, when he
went to Great Britain with the
Wallabies, Charlie Eastes was
one of the greatest wingers in
the world. A broken leg, and
a wretched series of accidents,
set him back, but lately he has
been slowly climbing back to
form. Whether he will ever re-
gain his old brilliance is doubt-
ful. Still, he is back in Manly
firsts, and on Saturday made
some good tackles from behind,
overtaking fast players. It was
good to see it.
* * *
With most of the stars in
Adelaide for the Australian
Rules carnival, Melbourne
V.F.L. games were cut to three
on Saturday, and of the 60,000
who went to them, 30,000 picked
Footscray-Carlton. But, as so
frequently happens, the real
“match-of-the-day” was at
M.C.G., where Melbourne,
whom most people had “given
away,” actually led Richmond
by five goals in the first quarter
and then made a draw of it
(11.9-all) in a goal-for-goal, both
sides flat-out, last quarter. Foot-
scray meantime licked Carlton
by 13.12 to" 8.18, and Geelong
enjoyed a canter against Haw-
thorn and gathered 12.14 to 9.8.
“S.”: Australian Rules foot-
ball is to have its own flag, a
brown football on a green
ground embossed with the
Southern Cross in gold. It must
not be flown without the Aus-
tralian national flag, and then
only at games sponsored by the
Australian National Football
Council. As this brand of foot-
ball is the only ball-game in-
vented by Australians, the flag
may be justified. If it is, some-
one should design a two-up
banner —say, a double-header
recumbent on a golden fleece.


A New Zealander Tells His Story
Poor, Yes, But...
By MATTHEW SILVESTER
WONDER if we’re bring-
ing up our kids the right
way? Lately I’ve begun
to doubt it.
So far as I can see, most of us
who’ve had to endure poverty
in our youth are determined to
make things much easier and
more pleasant for our offspring.
We enjoy seeing them have toys
and whatnot that were denied to
us as youngsters, going on trips
that we only dreamed of and
generally having a really good
time.
It seems to me, when I look
round, that our generous hand-
outs may be doing more harm
than good, because we are deny-
ing the youngsters the experience
of having to fend for themselves
in their most formative years,
the years of childhood, when
impressions are formed that may
last till the end of their days.
Don’t ask me for evidence as to
the validity of my misgivings : I
can quote enough to fill a book.
I’m prepared to wager that most
readers of this article could add
to my store of experience.
At the moment, I have in mind
some really tough examples of
the fruits of parental generosity:
youths who in their earlier years
had been pampered and petted
and who, when finally they
reached the stage where they had
to earn their own money, have
turned to booze and crime.
Good citizens ruined by
indulgence.
I write from the point of view
of a plain ordinary citizen in
his forties who has given his two
kids everything he could afford
and is finding that, apparently,
his all is insufficient for their
requirements. Now, if they had
had a taste of what I put up with
when I was their age . . .
* * *
My old man was a sawmiller
in Westland, New Zealand, a
good worker when there was
work to be had, a good drinker
at all times, and, to the end of
his days, the best of company.
He was the best fellow that ever
lived. A big, powerful chap, he
never lifted his finger to us and
never failed to intervene when-
ever my mother attempted to belt
us in his presence. I had a dog-
like affection for him and I never
lost it.
There were seven in our
family, and, lord, we were poor
—desperately poor. But we were
never hungry. “Eat plenty and
sleep on sacks,” was my Irish
grandmother’s favorite saying.
We always had plenty to eat, but
otherwise we did not fare so well.
None of us, incidentally, was
ever sick. We must have become
so immune to germs that they
had given up the struggle by the
time we could walk, preferring
mothers’ petted darlings to us
outlaws.
The house we lived in had
never been painted. It was old
when we came to live there, and,
having been built of green, sappy
timber, there were holes in many
of the boards where the knots
had fallen out, and the remain-
ing boards did not fit against
each other too well. The roof
leaked when it rained, and in
Westland it rained every day
(average, over lOOin. a year).
Yet our home was fairly dry
inside by reason of the fact that
the wood-stove was seldom out,
and, as the house was very small
(only four rooms, including the
kitchen-cum-drawing-room, and
small rooms at that), the heat
penetrated everywhere. In the
evenings the open fire was always
lit to dry our wet clothing if for
no other purpose ; we were never
cold while we were sitting round
it.
As the four boys, including
myself, slept in the one bed, the
heat of our bodies, aided by the
assortment of blankets and coats
we piled on ourselves, kept us
quite warm. Anyhow, the cold
never kept us awake.
As I grew older, it was being
crowded in bed that annoyed me
most. I was, and still am, a
restless sleeper, and I got fed-up
with being growled at by my
bigger brothers whenever I
shoved my foot in their faces or
kicked them in the ribs (as the
youngest of the four, I was
relegated to the foot of the bed
while they occupied the place of
honor at the head). So, at an
early age—l suppose about eight
—I conceived the idea that I
would prefer to sleep by myself,
and I managed to rig up a bed
in a disused shed at the back of
the house.
The shed was on the verge of
falling down, but it served my
purpose nicely for about five
years. The floor was rotten and
broken, so I bad to pick my way
carefully to my bed when I
retired, candle in hand, at night.
The place was alive with spiders
and cockroaches, but for years
I had been quite accustomed to
them and they never annoyed
me, nor did the clouds of
mosquitoes which bred in their
millions in the swamps near by.
One of the drawbacks of my
sleeping-quarters was the leaky
roof. I had an assortment of
tins planted round underneath
the holes to catch the water, and
a couple of old oilskins thrown
over my bed served to keep it
fairly dry, but whenever the oil-
skins were shifted, as happened
often when the dog, during my
absence, decided to take a nap in
my bedroom, I had to take my
nap in a soggy bed. I can well
remember the day when, after
thinking really hard about this
problem, I conceived the idea
that if I put some corrugated-iron
over the holes, the rain
couldn’t get in. I still regard that
as a brilliant bit of deduction!
Nobody else in our house had
ever thought of it, anyhow.
So I gathered up sheets of
rusty iron, of which there were
plenty lying round in a
neighbor’s paddock, and secured
them in place on the roof with
horseshoe nails that I pinched
from the local blacksmith. To
my delight, my experiment was
a complete success, and I got the
idea of doing the same to the
house itself.
I struck a bit of trouble there.
As soon as I put my weight on
the corrugated-iron roof, the
rusty stuff collapsed and instead
of small leaks there were big
ones. Water simply poured into
the kitchen. In consequence I
got a thrashing with a supple-
jack, but, being one who could
never admit defeat (“pigheaded,”
as my teacher put it most
elegantly), X sneaked back again
with my iron, and, 10, most of
the leaks disappeared!
Later I got the idea that I
could do something about the
holes in the walls. So I nailed
dockings (the end-trimmings
from boards) over the biggest of
the holes. The effect was not
very artistic, but the place
became less draughty. At one
time I got the idea of tackling
the floor of the veranda, but had
to desist when I found that there
was nothing substantial to nail
the boards to. Everything under-
neath the boards was completely
rotten, and, in effect, the veranda
was really sitting on the ground.
I built up parts of it by shovel-
ling gravel underneath, so that,
when it rained, parts of the
veranda were dry and the rest
wet.
There were about twenty other
dwellings in the village where I
lived. Most of them were incom-
parably better than ours, but our
place was not the worst by a
long chalk. At the bottom of
the scale were the huts occupied
by some Chinese gold-diggers and
old-age pensioners existing on
10s. a week. I was often in the
old chaps’ huts because my
mother —whenever she was able
to do so, and that was pretty
often —used to send me along to
them with hot soup, which they
relished, but which they hadn’t
the energy to make themselves.
When one old fellow, living
alone about three miles away in
the bush, became too helpless to
do anything for himself, my
mother had a small “bach” built
for him alongside our house, at
her own expense (and it must
have cost easily a fiver, even
though everything used in the
construction of it was second-
hand), and we looked after him
till he died at the great age of
101. It was rather unfortunate
that, when he died, a neighbor
helped himself to the old fellow’s
wallet and we had to pay every
penny of his funeral expenses. 1
I never felt ashamed of my
home till I went to high school
in the town fifteen miles distant
and mixed with boys whose
fathers were earning fabulous
incomes: up to £lO a week in
some cases, it was reputed.
Some of these boys happened to
visit our village on occasion,
and, on discovering where I
lived, waxed very mirthful about
the shanty which was my
domicile.
At the back of our place was
a drain which led to a cesspit
about a chain away. Unfortun-
ately, there was no fall to it, so
every month or so I had to get a
shovel and push the slimy mess
towards the pit. The variety of
squirming creatures which
inhabited that drain was a source
of constant wonder to me. Some
of them were oversize maggots
with long tails —beauties. I
haven’t seen any of their kind
for many years, and I often think
we must have been particularly
favored by their presence. I
should have pickled some to
prove that such things do exist.
School was not far away.
There were about forty kids, a
ragged bunch if ever there was
one. Some of the boys were so
sissy that they wore boots, dur-
ing winter at any rate, but for
the most part we went without
because we had none to put on.
One fellow had to walk about
three miles to get to school
(nowadays everybody squeals if
the school bus is a minute late),
and a kind person, seeing him
trudging along barefoot in the
frost, took pity on him and
bought him a pair of boots.
Knowing that they would be the
last he would own for many a
long day, he continued to walk
barefoot as far as the school
gate, with his boots slung over
his shoulders, then he would put
them on and march proudly into
the schoolroom. After six
months or so the boots got too
small and he had a terrible job
squeezing them on, but he
managed to do so and ended up
with all his toes crossed over
each other, in which condition
they remain today. I always
bear the incident in mind as an
example of misplaced philan-
thropy.
Our [female] teacher was a
great believer in corporal punish-
ment. Her favorite weapon was
a supplejack cane, every stroke
of which could raise a welt on
one’s palm. A hateful adult in
the village kept her well supplied
with canes. How we detested
him! I remember that when one
of the local mills went on strike
he refused to join the strikers
and stayed on as a scab ; that,
we reckoned, was in keeping with
his character.
Eventually this fellow left the
place. We broke into the school-
room the next night and con-
fiscated all the canes. The grins
went round the room when
teacher suddenly decided to
hammer a couple of us, but had
to desist when she discovered her
loss, was a pleasure to witness.
Undeterred, she sent my brother
off to the bush, only a few yards
distant, to get her a fresh supply
of switches (as we called them
then).
He brought back some nice
specimens, all nicely peeled, just
the things she wanted.
Except , . . New Zealand stink-
wood seldom gets into the news.
Peel the bark and handle it for
only a second or so, then try to
get rid of the odor, which is a
cross between that given off by
rotten eggs and a politician’s
excuse.
Teacher used the switch on
one of us, then detected that
something was wrong and
adjourned to the sink to wash
her hands. She must have
washed her hands often after
school was out because, next
day, there was no trace of any
odor or of the switches either.
Henceforth, until some other
scoundrel gave her some supple-
jack sticks, she used the strap,
and my brother had ample cause
to regret his folly.
Dear old teacher! Not long
ago I had to prepare a paper
on the “new deal” in education.
In essence, the “new deal” con-
sists of getting knowledge into
kids’ minds by stealth. You
offer something interesting to the
child, and presently, somehow
or other, he gets to know a lot
about it. That is very pleasant,
up to the point where the same
child has to sit for a profes-
sional examination for law or
accountancy or some branch of
science. Then he discovers that
he must do what we kids had to
do in primary school: learn
facts and figures by heart and be
trounced if he forgets them. I
bear no grouched against my old
teacher in respect of her
methods.
Talking of the same subject:
there was a boy at our school
who was so simple as to be
hopeless. He could never get
out of the primers. But teacher
never gave up hope. Year after
year she kept at him, incidentally
treating him with great kindness.
Today, though he is still half-
witted, he is able to read the
newspapers and understand
much of what he reads. There
may be some teachers about to-
day, apart from those employed
in special schools for retardates,
who are prepared to work as
hard on difficult pupils as my old
teacher, but I’ve come across
many who can’t be bothered.
* * *
I have said that we always had
plenty to eat. We did, too,
though our diet would be
reckoned monotonous nowadays.
\ye didn’t think so at the time.
There was always plenty or
meat and bread and spuds. We
had to go easy with such
luxuries as butter and sugar, and
occasionally we were forced to
eat dripping .instead of butter.
I can well recall my amazement
when, invited to lunch at a
neighbor’s place, I noticed the
family actually putting butter on
their vegetables. I was pressed
to do the same but declined ;
such extravagance appalled me.
On occasion there was added
to our menu whatever we boys
happened to catch or kill: eels,
wild pigeons, trout and goats
principally. The rivers teemed
with eels. Some of the mill-
workers living in “baches” miles
away in the bush were known to
have lived on eels-and-.bread for
up to a week at a stretch, on
account of having blued all their
wages on booze the same day as
they were paid.
One fellow came to our
house and was persuaded to
join us in our meal. My mother,
the most generous person who
ever lived, asked him solicitously
whether he ever cooked meals
for himself. His answer amused
her vastly. “I have three hot
meals a day,” he said. Then he
added as an afterthought “All
toast, though.”
* * ♦
Our pleasures were simple and
inexpensive. For as long as I
remember I have smoked, and
that means from the age of
about six. There were always
plenty of butts to be picked up
on the pub veranda or along the
road, and sometimes we experi-
mented with tea-leaves and
fuchsia-bark. Some of the boys
reckoned that fuchsia-bark and
dry cowdung made a better
smoke than a cigar.
Apart from smoking, we
stoned cows; teased the bull;
rode scraggy horses (bareback) ;
drowned cats; staged battles
with bows and arrows (supple-
jack bows and toitoi arrows with
a nail stuck in the end of each);
swam in, or, rather, were carried
along by, the swift-flowing river ;
prospected for gold in the
deserted claims near by which
had been the scene of a mighty
gold-rush years before; fished
or went for day-long tramps in
the dripping forest.
A dance was held in the
schoolroom about once a fort-
night, and everybody, young and
old, wem to it The younger
boys, including myself, were not
so interested in dancing as in
helping themselves, when they
could, to the kegs of beer parked
in the woodshed, and cheering
on such of the men as had
decided to settle their arguments
with their fists. The; 2 was at
least one fight at every dance I
ever attended and invariably it
attracted much interest. Danc-
ing was suspended till the bout
was over.
One brawl, a veritable
marathon between two six-
footers, lasted for about three
hours. As soon as one com-
batant had 'recovered from a
knockout, he would stagger off
in search of his adversary and
the fight would continue. It was
a bloody but indecisive affair.
Next day the two of them,
severely battered, got drunk to-
gether and swore eternal friend-
ship.
Nobody in our civilised com-
munity ever harbored a grudge
for very long. Kicking, stabbing
or bashing with a bottle was
absolutely prohibited. Anybody
who had attempted to do other
than hammer his opponent into
insensibility with his fists would
have been lynched. Only one
fellow ever met his death
through fighting, and that was
purely an accident; his head
happened to hit the brass rail-
ing of the bar while he was fall-
ing and the impact broke his
neck. It was a sorrowful affair.
Everybody knocked off work for
the dav, for miles round, to go
to his funeral.
Though I have been mixed up
(Continued on page 34)


There’s
something
about..
r.
Ml
%
...that
$
evt^vodu.
"A
A 3
r -
5
(a
likes
«c
X
fill from the Red, White & Blue Pump at
'
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
CIS3 ,
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
REVIVED J. BULL
Since the Coronation, and
directly linked to it, a new note
of confidence in J. Bull’s future
has sprung up in British Press
comment.
It reflects, of course, the new,
post-Coronation mood of the
British people—and not only in
Britain. Hitherto (as noted here
from time to time) nothing could
be more depressing than the
general British Press dirge on
the decline of J. Bull as a Great
Power since the Second World
War almost knocked him flat.
Faith in what it persists in
calling the British Empire has
looked like a close preserve of
London “Daily Express.”
Now we have, for example,
Vernon Bartlett declaring in the
“News Chronicle”:
“The United States, despite its
immense resources and its im-
mense generosity, has lost the
leadership of the non-Com-
munist world, and Britain has
regained it.”
Others would probably say
that Vernon had been a bit under
the influence of Coronation
spirit, but his enthusiasm, at all
events, is typical. The feeling is
that expressed by the Queen her-
self : “I have behind me not only
the splendid traditions and
annals of more than a thousand
years but the living strength and
majesty of the Commonwealth
and Empire, of societies old and
new, of lands and races differ-
ent in history and origins, but
all by God’s will united in spirit
and aim.”
Commonwealth Unity
The contagious spirit was
noticed as having spread most
effectively to the Prime Minis-
ters’ conference, “One observer,
who had been watching British
Imperial conferences for 30
years,” reported the London
correspondent of “New York
Times,” “declared that the unity
of purpose on this occasion was
greater than it had ever been.”
“It is becoming clear that the
degree of unanimity was in fact
exceptional,” the London “Ob-
server” commented on that
same conference.
In consequence, Sir Winston
Churchill, as noted by London
“Time and Tide,” “wak able to
collect the voices of the Com-
monwealth Prime Ministers and
rally behind his proposal for a
meeting with the Soviet Union
—and also his hope that Ber-
muda would be a stepping-stone
to it —the collective weight of
the British Commonwealth.
“The call for Britain to take
the lead in this or that aspect of
world affairs has echoed with
growing despondency down the
post-war years. It has been
answered at last, and Sir Win-
ston Churchill’s interpretation of
it is vastly more generous than
any could have hoped. He has
shown himself to be a jump
ahead of his critics who have
been taking him to task for his
lukewarmness towards the task
of uniting Europe in a common
cause. How much more effective
in the supreme task of finding a
modus vivendi between the East
and the West is the influence
that can be brought to bear by a
unique association of the great
countries of the world which
includes the English-speaking
nations, Canada, Australia and
New Zealand on the one hand
and India and Pakistan on the
other. With the representatives
of so large and diverse a section
of the peoples of the world
speaking with one voice on vital
world issues. Commonwealth
leadership emerges as a power-
ful factor in the struggle for
peace.”
Coronation Effect
“Time and Tide” sees these
and other signs of J. Bull’s revival
as springing from what the
Coronation represented;
“Why,” it asks, “have the
newspapers of the free countries
been filled with elaborate and
careful analyses of the recovered
greatness of Britain? Why does
a man of the calibre of M. Men-
des-France, in a speech which
held for him a special, personal
significance, urge his fellow-
countrymen to emulate the
British and give examples of the
way in which that emulation
should be attempted? Why do
the responsible statesmen of
Western Europe, almost with-
out exception, turn towards
Britain for leadership? Why are
the Governments of the Com-
monwealth countries unanimous
in their support of the United
Kingdom’s present initiative in
foreign policy? Why is there
one voice on Korea, Egypt and
the Bermuda talks?
“The connection between
these events and the grave and
beautiful symbolism of the
Coronation is not fortuitous;
that symbolism crystallised pro-
found mental and spiritual pro-
cesses ; and this is why Com-
monwealth and foreign opinion
responded so strongly. Freedom
London “News Chronicle”
Row, brothers, row, the stream runs fast,
The rapids are near and the daylight’s past.
“Canadian Boat Song” (Thomas Moore).
(The singer is Chancellor of the Exchequer R. A. Butler.)
tradition, of which Spithead and
its great review is symbolic.
Tradition of seamen long dead
and ships long sunk, tradition
of centuries gone, tradition of
Scapa Flow and Clydeside, of
cold seas and wet winds, of
Nelson’s ‘blind eye,’ of Cape St.
Vincent and Coronel, of courage
and tenacity, of ‘blood is thicker
than water.’
“Tradition, nurtured from
the past, refined for the future,
gives all of England brotherhood
in the Honorable Company of
Master Mariners, and bestows
a common sense of common
destiny and an identity with
past greatness upon all who,
now and tomorrow, serve be-
neath the White Ensign or the
‘Red Duster.’
“The other is skill, craftman-
ship, inventiveness. Britons
and the democratic way of life,
as the Coronation and its attend-
ant happenings demonstrated in
the most emphatic terms, are not
vulgar and hackneyed catch-
words,”
American Applause
The outside onlookers referred
to could have included “New
York Times’s” noted military
correspondent, Hanson W. Bald-
win (referring particularly to the
Spithead R.N. review):
“Out of the past Britain pre-
serves in the present and fosters
for the future two intangible
attributes that have fully war-
ranted the words now common
to the tongue — Great Britain.
“One is tradition, nautical
have built stout ships for cen-
turies ; British oak has long
been symbolic of British ship-
building ability.
“Some of the outstanding de-
velopments of naval architec-
ture stem from Britain. To
Britain we owe many recent
innovations important in sea
warfare, among them the steam
airplane-catapult, the angled-
deck aircraft-carrier and refine-
ments in gas-turbine engines
and in submarine detection and
tracking devices.”
To those examples of British
“skill, craftsmanship, inventive-
ness” could, of course, be added
an incomparable list of others.
That Anzus Pact
Comment in London “Finan-
cial Times” stresses the great
work of the Churchill-Eden
combination in bringing about
the resurgence: “What a
change,” it says, “there has been
in our foreign relations since
Mr. Eden and Sir Winston be-
came responsible for our foreign
policy.
“From 1945 to 1951 Britain
showed little initiative in foreign
affairs, unless begging for
foreign loans may be de-
scribed as such. Nearly two
years ago, when the Pacific
Pact known as Anzus was
signed between Australia,
New Zealand and the United
States, Socialist Ministers were
weakly complaining that
Britain was excluded. Excluded,
even though Britain has consider-
able territories in the Pacific,
including Hong Kong, North
. Borneo, Sarawak and a large
number of Pacific islands.
“Let us consider Britain’s
position today in relation to the
Pacific. Are we still humbly
seeking admission to Anzus?
The answer is no. That most
powerful of U.S. Senators, Mr.
Taft, is now actually proposing
an alliance between the United
States and the United Kingdom
in the Pacific and other parts of
the Far East. In this he is
strongly supported by Senator
Wiley, chairman of the mighty
Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, and by Senator Smith,
who heads the Senate Foreign
Relations Sub-committee on the
Far East.”
As another aspect of the
change, “Sir Winston Churchill
told the House of Commons
that he intended to assure Presi-
dent Eisenhower of ‘the resolve
of the British Government and
people to manage their own
affairs in such a way that they
can become independent of
financial aid from abroad, while
at the same time carrying their
share of common defence.’
“How long has Britain wished
to hear words like these from a
leader of the nation!”
Marks of Vitality
A further example of the new
and encouraging spirit, London
“Economist” has commented in
the course of an outline his-
torical survey:
“The British Empire has sur-
vived —not intact, not unshaken,
but as a living and growing
polity—while the empires of
Habsburg, Hohenzollern,
Romanov and Osman suc-
cumbed to war and revolution.
“The wealth and numbers of
the British and their stock
abroad have grown, not so fast
as those of rivals but fast
enough to keep momentum, to
increase military power and to
establish standards of living un-
surpassed outside North
America. Their language is
used over the whole world as an
instrument of culture, adminis-
tration and commerce; their
political institutions are imitated
all over the free world.
“The ascendancy of the
United States has, it is true,
come with astonishing speed;
but the significant fact is that
the Americans, though rivals,
are in no sense enemies. If it is


ft Old Blcivd
twiw
Wh.isk.v
arth
Cellar
Or:g;MJ F.crip*
jebi c&Sp
«»« JISIIUMJ
THE symbol that
tells, plainer than
any words, of whisky
at its finest.
Tt
WHITE HORSE
Scorch Whisky
WHI6X/9
a mark of vitality and flexibility
to keep old friends and make
new ones, Britain has shown it.
“Nothing in the record is
prouder than the spirit of
moderation and good sense in
which wealth and political power
have been redistributed in
Britain itself. The... .political
fact, of high significance for
Britain’s influence in the world,
[is that] that change was kept
peaceful in time of violent revo-
lution elsewhere. Labor and
Conservatism came bloodlessly
to terms with the new era while
Fascists, National Socialists and
Bolsheviks tried to master the
20th century with doctrines ad-
mitting of no compromise.
“If the capacity to
rather than destroy historic
institutions and traditions is a
mark of greatness, then the
British people have kept the title
to it by maintaining national
arid imperial unity in such a
tumultuous era. Indeed, when
the historian of the future asks
himself why American liberal-
ism, which helped to destroy
other empires, supported the
British Empire, he may find the
answer in these qualities.”
Profound Change
“In a strange and dangerous
way,” the “Economist” further
comments,, “the British have
cherished the tradition of the
narrow squeak; they appear
prouder of Dunkirk than El
Alamein, prouder of the Battle of
Britain than of Germany’s sur-
render, prouder of austerity than
of plenty. They sometimes seem
moved to seek the sympathy
rather than the respect of the
world, to expect an effortless
and unchallenged enjoyment of
their inheritance.
“This improvidence has more
than once tempted their enemies
to coalesce against them; but
only since 1947 has the lesson
been learnt. Now Britain has
helped to create a North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation unique
among alliances for its numbers,
its scope and its peace-time
preparedness for defence. Un-
precedented commitments have
been accepted to oppose force
with force, automatically over
the length and breadth of
Europe, elsewhere at the behest
of the United Nations. Collec-
tive security, relied on in the
, ’thirties as a bluff, was taken
seriously when South Korea was
attacked. The argument now in
Britain is not about whether to
rearm —as it was in the ’thirties
—but about how much rearma-
ment can be afforded.
“Foreign policy in Britain
now rests on a profound change
of mood from complacency to
resolution,”
Kremlin, No Change
As opposed to British and
other expressions of optimism,
what can be taken as the general
American view of Russian
“peace moves” is put tersely by
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” :
“Change inside the Kremlin
has been tested now. Finding:
It’s no change at all, except for
a few names.”
As another representative of
the unchanged American view,
“New York Times” comment-
ing editorially:
“The meaning of the moves
now being made in Germany, in
Austria, in Korea and elsewhere
is clear. The new rulers in Mos-
cow took power at a time when
the opposing camp, the free
world, was making rapid strides
toward unity and greater strength
—strides symbolised by such
factors as Nato and the
European Defence Community.
“The progress made by such
efforts had proved clearly that
Stalin’s purely verbal peace-
offensives had been inadequate
and that a more vigorous, more
imaginative tactic was required.
This is clearly the genesis of
the new gestures from Moscow,
and the destruction of the free
world’s unity is just as clearly
the aim of these manoeuvres.
“We can never afford to for-
get that Stalin’s successors are
not only his heirs, but also his
former closest co-workers and
pupils. It was Malenkov to
whom the leaders of the
Canadian spy-ring reported be-
fore that ring was broken. It
was Molotov who discussed the
division of the world with Hitler
and Ribbentrop. To think that
these men and their colleagues
have suddenly been transformed
into human personifications of
Picasso’s doves is to let illusion
replace reason.
“Any concessions the Krem-
lin makes today it makes be-
cause unrest behind the Iron
Curtain and free-world strength
abroad require concessions. The
way to obtain further conces-
sions and really to increase the
prospects for a lasting peace is
to maintain unbroken strength
and unity among the nations and
the peoples whom Cortimunism
seeks to enslave,”
Success in Malaya
“There can be no doubt in
the mind of anyone who has
visited Malaya in recent months
that the battle against the Com?
munist terrorists is being pro-
gressively won.”
This endorsement of what
correspondents there have been
reporting is given in New York
“Herald Tribune” by Colonel
Arthur E. Young, Commis-
sioner of the City of London
Police. Colonel Young lately
completely reorganised the
Malayan police force and highly
praises it:
“The police have behaved
with splendid gallantry. Since
the emergency began over 1200
police have been murdered by
the terrorists, but nevertheless
their morale has remained uni-
formly high.”
On the general improvement
in Malaya, he says that the feel-
ing of acute anxiety which
existed at the end of 1951 has
now given place to one of confi-
dence in the future and an
assurance that the forces of law
and order will prevail over
terrorism:
“Under the inspiring and
dynamic leadership of Gen.
Templer, the High Commissioner
of Malaya, much has been done ;
indeed, surveying the future 18
months ago, no one, I think,
could possibly have imagined
that so much real progress could
have taken place.
“Let us not be mistaken about
the kind of battle which is being
fought in Malaya. The real issue
is not being fought out with
guns but with ideas and ideals ;
the real battle is for the hearts
and minds of the people, who
are being shown by the progres-
sive development of Government
policy the real advantages of
democracy.
“In the 500 or so new villages
which have been established
primarily to give protection and
security to Chinese* who were
formerly ‘squatters’ in remote
areas of Malaya, a new under-
standing exists of the bond be-
tween file Government and the
people. In these new villages
the inhabitants receive the bene-
fits of free education, free medi-
cal services and, more recently,
the opportunity to elect their
own village committees.” \
Britain's Harlems
Colored communities in
Britain have been growing to
such proportions that London
“Economist” has made a
special lengthy survey of them
as a definite problem.
Stating that many of Britain’s
big provincial cities, as well as
the seaports, now have these
communities, mainly of West
Indian and West African origin,
its points out that in the past
Britain absorbed immigrants
mainly in the top or middle
strata of society, and it is still
true to say that Canadians, South
Africans, Australians and even
Americans who have taken up
permanent residence in Britain
have done so because Britain
offers economic opportunities
for administrative, commercial,
artistic, scientific and profes-
sional talent, in the same way
that overseas settlement has
offered opportunities for per-
sonal betterment to British
farmers or artisans. This is
partially true even of those from
the Asian members of the British
Commonwealth ; there are over
a thousand Indian doctors, for
example, on the British medical
register.
With West Indians and
Africans the case is quite differ-
ent. They are drawn by the
New York “Herald Tribune”
LOOK WHAT’S HAPPENED TO THE ARK!
standard of living offered at
working-class level.
“Before the war small colored
communities were well estab-
lished in such ports as Cardiff,
and their offspring had reached
the third generation. They
increased slowly by immigration
and by marriage with British
women. They were poor,
especially subject to unemploy-
ment, concentrated in single
slum-districts and attached to
the sea-going community. In
the war, however, there were
jobs for all, and colored troops
from the colonies received a
vivid if fallacious picture of
British working-class comfort
and security.”
After the war they began to
arrive on the strength of the re-
ports thus widely spread ; in con-
ditions of overfull employment,
they got fairly good jobs at good
pay. The upshot is that minia-
ture “Harlems” have grown up
in many big towns.
That Stone Again
Apparently the Stone of
Scone, somewhat in cold-storage
as world news, is still a red-hot
boulder of debate north of the
border.
Thus, Sir Winston having
said that it’s to stay “where it
has been for' some - 650 years,”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” re-
torted ;
“Apparently the lapse of time
rights all wrongs. The Corona-
tion Stone, the Premier said, has
a special significance for all the
countries in the Commonwealth,
which was strongly reinforced
by the Coronation. This is true
enough, but it hardly affects the
issue of the proper location for
the Stone.
“Does its significance for the
Commonwealth countries de-
pend on its remaining in West-
minster Abbey? Surely that
springs from its traditional use
in Coronations, and no one sug-
gests that it should cease to play
that part. Its value as a Com-
monwealth symbol would not
be diminished were it to be re-
stored to Scotland and taken to
Westminster Abbey when it is
required.”
And the “Scotsman” went on
to administer the unkindest cut
of all. “It may be said,” it com-
mented, “that London as the
capital of the Commonwealth is
the proper place for an Imperial
symbol. But the Commonwealth
is now an association of inde-
pendent countries, which have
their own capitals, and London’s
prescriptive right to be regarded
as the centre of Commonwealth
affairs and the repository of its
symbols need no longer be taken
for granted.”
Wherefore the Scots, if they
didn’t regard it as an irreverent
flippancy, would no doubt feel-
ingly endorse the statement of
one of their own members of
the House of Commons, Emrys
Hughes:
“Whenever a Scotsman
approaches the Stone a bell rings
in Scotland Yard. On grounds
of economy alone, would it not
be far better to take it back to
Scotland and put it in a museum
where no one would want to
steal it?”
Dragnet Digest
New Privileged Class. —Tax-
free salaries (U.N.O.’s greatest
achievement) cropping up in the
European Coal and Steel outfit,
a delegate declared that they
are “creating a class of privileged
people which public opinion
would not long tolerate.” Latest
addition is Unesco’s head, Dr.
Luther Evans (“Lucky Luther”),
who draws £6400 tax-free, plus
£2850 allowance, also tax-free.
Neguib Negotiations— How
shelved negotiations in Cairo get
going again, explained in. an
Edinburgh “Scotsman” report:
“The suggestions come, as is
often the case with Cairo, in the
shape of reports planted in the
Press there that negotiations will
resume. Once that has hap-
pened the Egyptian Government
take the chance to ask the British
how these reports have originated
and if there is any truth in
them. That gives the British
the chance to say that they are
willing to resume any time,
whereupon the Egyptians, if
past form is a guide, consent.”
Reading by Weight.
Seriously, not to say solemnly,
reported by Unesco: “On a per
capita basis, the average
American consumes 791 b. of
reading-matter annually and
Canada comes next with 501 b.
Italian Corns— The strong
showing of voters on the Com-
munist side in the Italian elec-
tions, as viewed by “Suddeutsche
Zeitung” (Munich): “The mil-
lions who turned against demo-
cracy voted for the greater part
against poverty and misery,
against crass inequality of
wealth. But it is doubtful
whether a land where 37 per
cent, of the population marked
their ballots under the name
Malenkov can be a useful ally
in an anti-Communist alliance.
An afflicted land, unable to
achieve a bearable standard of
living, has loosed an angry cry
of pain. No one on our Con-
tinent or on the other side of
the ocean should fail to hear
it.”
China in U.N.O. British
support of Communist China s
admission to U.N.O. no
backing in America. “The
United States position,” explains
“San Francisco Chronicle,” “has
always been that any Govern-
ment asking admittance to the
United Nations must qualify
both as the authentic represen-
tative of the people and as a
responsible and civilised regime.
Red China appears no closer
than ever to passing these
entrance requirements.”
Attlee. —Assessed by London
Leftish “New Statesman”: His
distinction depends on his
capacity for the undramatic, for
contradicting his own past in so
flat and commonplace a manner
that his hearers scarcely realise
what is happening. Of him it
may be truly said that there is
nothing from which he does not
strip the adornment.”


Holden wins
fresh laurels with
new “air-cushion ride”
All over Australia, people are singing the praises
oj Holden s new ride. If s a treat in store for you.
Today the beautiful Holden Sedan has 20 important improvements
and refinements including a wonderful “air-cushion ride.’’ With new
telescopic shock absorbers, wider base wheel rims and redesigned
rear .springing, Holden brings you new comfort, new smoothness on
all road surfaces.
What s more, Holden is now available in a range of glamorous
new exterior colours with harmonising interior trim to farther enhance
the clean cut, distinguished beauty of Australia’s Own Car.
Holden has broken all-time sales records because it’s the only car ‘
designed specially for Australian conditions. It’s the only car to
give you 30 m.p.g. economy (as reported by owners) with abundant
six cylinder power for easy city handling, effortless long-distance
travelling and sustained, trouble-free life, Holden is universally
admired for its modern, graceful good looks. No wonder sales of
Holden during the first five months of this year were more than
four times greater than those of any other model.
Today ask your Holden Dealer for a demonstration drive in the
latest Holden. Experience the wonderful new “air-cushion ride” and
learn about the twenty improvements. Holden is better than ever.
T6OC
* Two Air Chief radios are speci-
ally designed for Holden. * Con-
venient hire purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. —
General Motors’ own finance
Company.
u
HOLDEN
Australia’s Own Car
Australian Sales Leader
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE # SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH.
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES WILLIAM BRACK late of
The Entrance. —TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET MAY BRACK has filed a Peti-
tion for divorce No. 2395 of 1950 on the
•grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you might enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 11th day of September 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN E. OUPIT & BEST,
Solicitors, of Federal Mutual Chambers,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE TREVLIN RANKIN.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN ALICE
RANKIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1753 of 1953, on the grounds of
desertion for 8 years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an Appearance
at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court,
King Street, Sydney by 18th of September
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from W. D. SCHRADER
& DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney,
New South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS JAMES MARTIN late of
Tocumwal, N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE
that VERA MAY MARTIN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2188 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an Appearance in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, King Street,
Sydney, by 23rd September 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. CLAYTON, UTZ
& COMPANY, Solicitors, 136 Liverpool
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
JONES—WouId the next of kin of Lilia
Morris Jones who died at Sydney, New
South Wales, on 7th March 1952 and
who was born at Sydney on Bth April
1884, a daughter of John Jones and
Elizabeth Jones n6e Morris (who were
bom at Denbighshire, Wales, and Milford
Haven, Wales, respectively about the
year 1854) or anyone knowing their
whereabouts please communicate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, Australia, quoting “Estate
of Lilia Morris Jones.”
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Ha* all the finest lectures
cl high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a ha c
tion oi their cost The
■'National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plan*.
Music, etc.
Built entirety t* Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Pistribuiihi/ Agenm—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co, (Aiut)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words and source of a prose quota-
tion by D. H. Lawrence, which ended
“It is no use ‘iffing’.”—ss3B.
Words of poem by Randolph Bed-
ford welcoming Rudyard Kipling to
Australia.—ss37.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Frances
Danielson ( nee Lee), born Northum-
berland, England, migrated to Aus-
tralia 40 years ago, and lived for a
period at Rose Bay (Sydney). Brother
inquiring. (Reply direct to John Lee,
31 North Row, East Holywell, Shire-
moor, Northumberland, England.)
Information Sought
How is sulphur obtained? What
are its chief uses? Approximate
quantity used per annum in Australia ?
Sulphur occurs both in the free
state and in combination with other
elements. Pyrite, or iron sulphide,
contains 53.4 per cent, sulphur and
sphalerite; zinc sulphide contains
33.1 per cent, sulphur. These two
minerals and native sulphur are the
most important sources of commer-
cial sulphur. The minerals pyrrhotite,
alunite and gypsum may also be used
when no other source is available.
Sulphur in the free state is used in
medicines and ointments, agriculture,
rubber vulcanisation and gunpowder.
The greatest consumer of sulphur,
however, is the sulphuric - acid
industry. Australia’s sulphur require-
ments are met principally from
imports of elemental sulphur; the
remainder, about 40 per cent., is
obtained in the form of sulphuric
acid from the roasting of domestically
produced sulphide ores. In 1951, im-
ports of elemental sulphur amounted
to 147,683 tons, of which 12,000 tons
were used in the chemical, rubber
and agricultural industries, and the
balance (135,683 tons) in the manu-
facture of sulphuric acid. In addi-
tion, locally produced sulphides con-
taining 114,725 tons sulphur were
roasted at acid plants. Of the sul-
phuric acid produced, 92 per cent,
was used in the manufacture of fer-
tilisers.
* * * *
A wire is laid from Brisbane to
London. An electrical impulse is
sent along that wire to make an
audible signal. How long from the
time the circuit is made in Brisbane
until the impulse reaches London?
The velocity of propagation of
signals along a wire transmission line
depends on the electrical constants
of the line, which include resistance,
inductance, capacitance, and leakage
conductance. This velocity does not
exceed the velocity of light, which is
approximately 186,000 miles per
second, and for commonly used types
of telephone lines it varies from
about 183,000 miles per second down
to as low as 10,000 miles per second.
If the line from Brisbane to London
had a length of, say, 12,000 miles, then
the time for a telephonic signal to
reach London would be between 1/15
second and 1 second, depending on
the electrical characteristics of the
line. It should be realised that the
answer is not a simple one because
it depends on many factors not stated
m the question.
* * * *
Has the fibre of kurrajong bark
any commercial uses? Is there any
chemical process for removing the
sap from the fibre ?
There are three different botanical
species which are commonly called
kurrajong. That which occurs on
the N.S.W. western slopes and which
is often grown in the streets of towns
and cities in that area has the
botanical name Brachychiton popul-
neum. The other two species are
both flame kurrajongs, the more
common being the bright red flower-
ing Brachychiton acerifolium, and the
less common being Brachychiton dis-
color. Both are coastal species. The
bark of these flame kurrajongs has
been tested at the Division of Wood
Technology laboratories, Sydney, and
has been found to contain quite good
fibres. These fibres can be released
and the sap removed by soaking the
bark in water for about one month.
By this time the retting organisms
should have disintegrated the fleshy
part of the bark leaving the fibres
more or less free. When the bark
has reached this stage, it should be
thoroughly washed in fresh clean
water to stop any further retting, and
to remove any unpleasant odors.
This process will, of course, also
remove any sap. The Division of
Wpod Technology does not consider
that these fibres have any real possi-
bilities for commercial development
for the following reasons: (1) Natural
stands of these trees are very small,
(2) the concentration of trees, where
they do occur, is not High, (3) bark
removal from the living tree kills
the tree, (4) even if (3) were of no
importance, which of course it is,
the labor costs of bark-collection
from the living tree would be too
high. The few samples of the bark
of Brachychiton populneum which
have been examined do not contain
a satisfactory fibre. Incidentally, the
fibres of our stringybarks have been
shown to be quite suitable for fibro'us
plaster and upholstery stuffing, when
treated as outlined above. Raw
material can be obtained in large
quantities as a by-product of com-
mercial timber operations. Further
information on these matters can be
obtained by writing to the Chief of
Division, Division of Wood Tech-
nology, 96 Harrington-street, Sydney.
♦ ♦ * *
For what is the Hotel de Ram-
bouillet famous?
The Hotel de Rambouillet was the
meeting-place of one of the first of
the cultured circles of French aristo-
cratic, artistic and political society
(known usually as the French salons ).
According to H. Grierson’s The First
Half of the 17th Century, “From the
opening of the hotel [l6lo] dates
the organisation of polite society as
a conscious force in life and letters,
the beginning of the process which
was to make literature, poetry and
prose the finest flower of social inter-
course, its greatest beauties that
elegance and dignity which are the
adornment of aristocratic manners.”
Almost all the more remarkable per-
sonages in French society and French
literature frequented it, especially
during the second quarter of the 17th
century. It was presided over by
Catherine, Marquise de Rambouillet
(1588-1665). Moliere’s attack was
directed not at the Hotel de Ram-
bouillet itself but at the numerous
coteries which sprang up in imitation;
but his satire did in fact touch the
originators as well as the imitators.
* * * *
Some information about Butler, the
N.S.W. murderer ?
Butler’s technique was to advertise
for a mate for a prospecting expedi-
tion, take his “mate” away to a
lonely spot (usually in the N.S.W.
Blue Mountains), and there shoot him
from behind. His motive was mone-
tary gain. .He murdered in this way
at least three men—Lee Weller,
Arthur Preston and one Burgess
(Aug.-Oct., 1896). He may have
murdered others as well. After the
murder of Lee Weller, Butler left
Australia in the Swanhilda, but was
arrested when the ship reached San
Francisco by American and Australian
police (the Australians had followed
him in the faster mail-boat). Extra-
dited back to Australia, he was tried
June 14, 1897, found guilty and, after
an appeal had been dismissed,
executed on July 16, 1897. One of
Australia’s most fiendish murderers,
Butler frequently changed his name,
often using the name of his victims;
he travelled in the Swanhilda under
the name of Lee Weller, whom he
had just murdered, and it was this
which helped to convict him.
* * * *
Is it correct that Swift forecast the
discovery of two of the planets before
they were actually known ?
Not exactly; what you have in
mind probably is Swift’s remarkably
accurate gufess about Mars’s two
satellites. In Gulliver’s Travels (1726)
Swift wrote of the fictitious Laputan
astronomers, “They have likewise dis-
covered two lesser stars or satellites
which revolve about Mars, whereoi
the innermost is distinct from the
centre of the primary planet exactly
three of his diameters, and the outer-
most five; the former revolves in
the space of 10 hours, and the latter
in 21£.” In 1877, 151 years later,
the American astronomer Asaph Hall
(1829-1907) did discover two satellites
of Mars—Phobos, whose distance
from Mars’s centre is 5800 miles (U
diameters), and Deimos, distant
14,600 miles (3£ diameters), whose
revolution-periods are respectively 7
hours 39 minutes and 30 hours 18
minutes. Incidentally, Phobos is the
only known satellite to revolve round
its planet more quickly than the
planet rotates—it revolves in less
than one-third of Mars’s rotation-
period, rising in the west, setting in
the east four hours later and changing
in that time from new to full, or
full to new.
Brief Answers
M.T.: It is a card-counter used
by card-players in the place of money.
These pieces have no collector’s value.
....P.L.D.: N.S.W. State Lotteries
office feel that a subscriber has a
better chance of collecting a prize
by purchasing one hundred consecu-
tive tickets in a lottery rather than
one ticket in each of one hundred
consecutive lotteries. To their know-
ledge there have been as many as
eleven prizes in one hundred consecu-
tive tickets. Many instances have
occurred where eight prizes have been
won in a hundred consecutive tickets.
•.. .T. 8.; There has never been such
a rank as “King’s Corporal” in the
Australian Military Forces or the
British Army J.A.: Requisite per-
centage of fluorine (sodium fluoride)
as corrective against dental caries is
not established. Natural content in
local water-supply is estimated at 1
in 1,000,000, but this is negligible in
effect. U.S.A. authorities are work-
ing on the fluor. theory; local tests
are being made at Tenterfield
(N.5.W.)... .M.S.: Exact cause of
true shingles or herpes zoster is un-
known. Differs from simple cold
sore, hives, etc., in that the effect
follows a ganglion-nerve course and
neuralgic pain persists after lesion
has healed. Sores may suppurate
and scale over a period of weeks with
permanent scarring as the result.
With antipyretics, quinine, etc., the
new sulpha drugs appear to have most
effect. Medical supervision advised.
. ...W.R.: The Norman Lindsay
article was called “An Emetic in Oil-
paint” and appeared in The Bulletin
of March 18, 1953... .W.H.R.; Rud-
yard Kipling was born at Bombay
on December 30, 1865 W.K.M.:
The artist is not mentioned in William
Moore’s The Story of Australian Art.
Nor is he known to the National Art
Gallery of N. S. Wales J.A.D.;
The name of the book is Jean
Santeuil. It was reviewed in The
Bulletin of January 28, 1953....
R.S.: Annual subscription to the
Royal Australian Historical Society
is £3 3s. for a male member. There
is an entrance fee of £1 Is. for new
members W. 8.: “Air Travel” is
published by the Australian National
Airways, 390 Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne C. 8.: Yes, the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy has ordered 40 recently-
designed Fairey Gannet jet turbo-
propeller anti-submarine aircraft from
the United Kingdom. They wilFcost
about £4,000,000 and will arrive in
Australia in 1955.,..T.J.: World
wool-production in 1951-52 is esti-
mated to have been 3,943,000,0001 b.
(greasy), and the clean equivalent,
2,195,000,0001 b. An increase of about
2.2 p.c. is expected in 1952-53, giving
a total production of 4,030,000,0001 b.
greasy A.S.F.; Works are being
erected by Cockburn Cement Pty.,
Ltd., at Coogee (W.A.), to produce
100,000 tons of cement annually.
Estimated cost to bring the works
into production by 1955 is £2,200,000.
Half the nominal capital will be
supplied by the Rugby Portland
Cement Co. of England. The W.A.
Government will provide capital
secured by long-term debentures on
the basis of £1 for each £1 supplied
by the company. The new plant,
together with the 170,000 tons a year
which Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
expects to produce by the end ot
1953, should meet the full cement
requirements of the State.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Compulsory Unionism
I was in New Zealand when Labor
introduced compulsory unionism and
alienated voters inclined, as workers, to
sway towards Labor. Girls in my depart-
ment who normally couldn’t have cared
less about politics became almost
ferociously antagonistic when Labor’s
legislation forced them, against their
inclination, to become compulsory
unionists.
None could escape. When, failing an
Artists’ Union, they didn’t know under
which heading to include our male artist,
they forced him to join the Painters and
Paperhangers’ Union. Those youngsters
recorded their anger at the polls.
We are frighteningly apathetic about a
lot of things today, but freedom to choose
our own course of action touches us so
deeply that it’s suicidal for any party to
interfere wjth it. The split in Labor
ranks over the controversial issue
indicates that some of them realise the
hornet’s-nest the party has poked its head
into.
There is one aspect, however, which
deserves consideration. Most unions have
undoubtedly done much to benefit
thousands of wage-earners, and many
unionists feel that it is unfair for non-
unionists to reap union-won benefits with-
out contributing to expenses incurred.
Couldn’t a small donation be made yearly
by non-unionists to a union to cover
working expenses, there being a clear
undertaking on the union’s part that
not one cent of such contributions would
be used for political purposes?
I understand that England had (or has)
such a scheme. At any rate Labor will
need to think out some such alternative
if it doesn’t want to dictate itself out of
existence, — Avon (N.S.W.).
National Service and the Navy
The Navy and Air Minister’s plan for
reorganising National Service is fully
justified. It is doubtful whether it was
ever organised. Anomalies have cropped
up every day, additional regulations were
issued as corrections, instructions made
to amend revisions, amendments pro-
mulgated to review the additional regu-
lations issued to correct the anomalies.
National Service interfered with Per-
manent Naval Forces because staff and
ships available were not enough to cope
with added responsibilities of training,
guiding, instructing and indoctrinating
trainees to high levels required by naval
standards.
No liaison existed between N.S. and
Reserve Force (formed 1950). Young
men on their second step up in the
Reserve found themselves going down
after being called-up for N.S. N.S, did
not recognise promotion gained in the
Reserve. The young man lost money
and interest.
The Minister has made no definite state-
ment on how he will “reorganise,” but
an amalgamation with the obviously re-
dundant Reserve Force would save much
needed money and give relief to over-
worked Permanent Naval Forces.— Girt
(Vic-).
U.S. Capital Investment
The recent arrival in Sydney of two
American businessmen to investigate the
possibilities of opening a branch of their
company here may turn out -of great
advantage to Australia. They were
attracted by the Menzies Govern-
ment’s abolition of double-taxation on
American-Australian interests.
They are directors of one of America’s
biggest manufacturers of irrigation equip-
ment, for which there is' at present a
great demand both here and in other
British Commonwealth countries. The
proposed factory would cater for the
whole of the sterling area.
The success of the venture, if not the
end of double-taxation in itself, should
attract more American firms, and that
should send different sections of industry
here ahead by leaps and bounds. The
need to attract American capital to
British Commonwealth countries is
generally recognised by financial experts.
Last March Lord fiaillieu told the
Manchester Chamber of Commerce that
it was “essential” that America invest in
the British Commonwealth. He said that
“stability in world trade could not be
achieved without deliberate action by
America,” and that “a massive long-term
foreign-investment programme” by the
U.S. was needed to ensure an enduring
solution to the (British) Commonwealth’s
economic problems.
At the same time America should
reduce tariffs and encourage reciprocal
trade with other Western countries. A
good sign of a more co-operative trading
attitude from America was the recent
giving of part of the contract for the
Chief Joseph Dam in Oregon to a British
electrical firm.
Australia’s exports are now about 60
per cent, greater than its imports, but
her exports to America are decreasing ;
we would benefit if we were able to trade
more freely with America. Failing that,
we will probably benefit to an equal
extent if American capital is encouraged
to come here. — Kros (S.A.).
Queensland Roads
Labor’s road-construction policy in
Queensland is much better than “DJ.K.”
(B. 1/7/’53) tries to make out.
When the original Main Roads Board
came into existence in 1920 the position
of road transport was deplorable. The
“What you need is a shot of penicillin, ol' boy.”
needs of farmers in the wet, semi-coastal
areas were especially urgent. Under
successive Labor Govrnments the picture
was entirely changed. Today, the
Darling Downs is covered by a network
of constructed roads, and the coastal areas
from Gympie to the border of N. S.
Wales have been provided with good
roads, including many mountain roads.
The sugar districts of Bundaberg,
Mackay, Proserpine, Ayr, Cairns and
Mossman, the agricultural areas in the
hinterland of Gladstone and Rock-
hampton, and the dairying areas on the
Atherton Tableland all have many miles
of constructed roads.
Today the mileage of roads in Queens-
land under the control of the Main Roads
Department is almost 21,000. This total
includes 7776 miles of State highways,
11,079 miles of main roads and 2035 miles
of secondary farmers’, developmental,
tourist and mining-access roads. The cost
of construction is borne entirely by the
Government.
Of the 21,000 miles of roads, less than
140 miles are gazetted as main roads
within boundaries of the eight principal
cities of Queensland. In the Brisbane
municipal area there are 2180 miles, of
which only 92 miles are gazetted as main
roads. Thus, by far the greater sum is
spent in country localities. Of a total of
£6,040,969 spent on permanent works and
maintenace in 1951-52, £5,478,115 was
free of any liability to local authorities.
An amount not exceeding half the main-
tenance expenditure is chargeable to the
local authorities.
“D.J.K.” talks of “savage transprt
taxes” and “harsh vehicle registration-
fees.” He did not mention that, unlike
the motor taxation collected by the
Federal Government, the whole of the
tax collected from motor interests in
Queensland is spent on improving trans-
port communications. The Queensland
Government has been pressing for a
return to the States, for road-building
purposes, of 100 per cent, of the Federal
petrol-tax collections instead of the 55
per cent, returned now.
The withholding of 45 per cent, of
these fees is a serious tax on transport
in Queensland, which, because of its vast
distances and scattered population, has
an infinitely greater problem of road-
maintenance than other States.
For 1952-53 Queensland will spend over
£7 million on main-road construction.
That’s a pretty fair effort for a State
which has a population of less than half
that of Sydney. —C. L. (Q.).
Free Trade
Despite what “Castlereagh” (B.
27/5/’53) has to say about free-trade,
tariffs cannot permanently raise the living
standards of any country except insofar
as they encourage the establishment of
industries which are able, once firmly
established, to stand on their own feet.
Even then a bounty or subsidy is prefer-
able, for it will appear on the debit side
of a national budget and will so receive
more scrutiny and be more subject to
revision and abolition when necessary
than a tariff, the results of which will
appear on the revenue side.
A permanent tariff can only increase the
living standard of one class of citizens
by raising the price of their products, and
hence the price of things the rest of the
people have to buy. At best it benefits the
receiving class to a lesser extent than it
penalises the rest of the community, for
it encourages uneconomic industries and
diverts labor to less productive occupa-
tions.
In Australia the wool and beef indus-
tries have never gained from protection,
while wheat and dairying have lost more
by tariffs than they have ever gained
from subsidies and the home-consump-
tion price when it exceeded world parity.
There is only one real objection to a
return to free-trade. The average city-
dweller employed in protected industries
would not have sufficient initiative, intel-
ligence or sense of responsibility to make
even a good farm-laborer or station-
hand. —L. T. I. (Vic,).
N. S. Wales Transport
Within recent years Labor in N. S.
Wales has produced no fewer than three
Transport Ministers, none of whom has
been able to halt the department’s only
speedy feature —its headlong dash into
bigger and bigger deficits.
The last two incumbents of the port-
folio have lopped respectively at the
bottom and the top of the swollen staff
with the timidity natural to Labor poli-
ticians whose actions are accountable to
Trades Hall. The effect, anyway, has
been negligible.
It is most likely that the fault with
the department really lies in an attitude
of mind which has grown up over the
years—an attitude which has produced
the very worst type of bureaucrat in a
country which produces some awful
specimens of the breed.
That is the attitude engendered by a
policy of deliberately running services at
a loss to achieve certain ends, and to
repress as strongly as possible the com-
petition of private transport enterprise.
In the past the railways carried freight
at a loss along our coastal lines, deliber-
ately and with one specific aim—to put
the shipping companies out of business.
Their success can be gathered by compar-
ing our coastal shipping tonnage of today
with what it was a quarter-century ago,
or by viewing the deserted wharves and
silted-up bars of our coastal towns.
Sometimes the policy has had a more
benevolent aim, as, for instance, with
special freight-rates for starving or stud
stock. But it is the same policy, and,
carried on for years as it has been, it has
colored the outlook of the department's
senior officers.
They have a jealous hostility towards
successful private enterprise in transport,
and are unhappy until it has been “con-
trolled” out of business —e.g., the efficient
taxi-buses on the northern side of the
harbor, whose quick trips to Wynyard
are, alas, no more.
The latest instance is a regulation aimed
at Sydney’s first taxi-service to instal two-
way radio in cabs. Although the costly
equipment was fitted with the depart-
ment’s approval, it has since limited the
operating radius of radio-equipped cabs,
in effect, to a mile and a half for picking
up passengers. According to the Press
the company concerned is now talking
of removing the equipment.
Apparently there are still enough
surplus bureaucrats on the staff to spend
their time fighting private enterprise.
The only solution to the problem —
apart from selling out lock, stock and
barrel to private enterprise—would be tp
appoint a Transport Commission, com-
posed of men with satisfactory business
careers in transport, and to give them a
free hand to clean up the mess. — Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
The Snowy Scheme
Why is the Federal Government pour-
ing out millions on the Snowy Mountains
hydroelectric scheme?
This misnamed venture bears all the
hall-marks of the megalomania which has
afflicted Australian Governments since
the war ended.
I know that the work was launched in
a hurry by the Chifley Government and
adopted enthusiastically by the Menzies
Government; I know that it will cost
over £2OO million; I know that some
Americans think there is “not enough
money in Australia to pay for it” ; and
I know that it is not as a hydroelectric
scheme but as an irrigation scheme that it
is-being played-up as a moneysaver in
the electricity problems of Victoria and
N. S. Wales.
My authority for that last statement
comes from the retiring president of the
Institution of Engineers, Australia, for
1952, given out over the air as A.B.C.
Sunday-night guest-of-honor.
It is confirmed in an “S. M. Herald”
article (12/3/’53) on the Electricity Com-
mission of N, S. Wales. Neither Vic-
toria nor N. S, Wales wants Snowy elec-
tricity, and both refused to sign-up to
take Snowy electricity, when forthcoming,
at a price to be fixed later. The States
were too canny to sign that very blank
cheque.
It seems that the way to help the
States with their electricity problems
would be:
(1) Provide money to finish the Vic-
torian Kiewa Valley hydroelectric scheme
quickly, thus incidentally learning some-
thing about the type of work to be met
in the Snowy scheme.
(2) Build the Clarence Valley hydro-
electric scheme and so help N. S. Wales
and at the same time gladden the heart
of Dr. Earle Page.
(3) Build the Blowering Dam near
Tumut for the benefit of the irrigation
area.
Those three schemes would cost much
less than the fabulous Snowy scheme
with its greatest earth-fill dam in the
world at Adaminaby, its fantastic tunnels
(wait till the tenders come in!), and its
powerhouses thousands of feet in the
bowels of the earth.
There is a capable band of engineers
in charge of the Snowy scheme and
there is no doubt that they can success-
fully build the show, gigantic though it
is. But surely the Commissioner of the
Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric
Authority shows great temerity in telling
people that the Snowy scheme will save
N. S, Wales electricity consumers £2O
million a year (“S. M. Herald,” 6/ 5/’53).
The S.A. Government is now investi-
gating the production of electricity by
atomic process, and that source of power
may render hydroelectric schemes out of
date. Before things get too far I’d like
to see the economics of the Snowy scheme
investigated by a high-ranking engineer
and an accountant, preferably men with
old-fashioned ideas in regard to money.
Anyway, why not keep the Snowy
scheme on ice until the next depression?
—P.Z.X. (N.S.W.).


FAST-EFFICIENT-THRIFTY
WOOLCLASSING
( TUBULAR STEEL )
WOOL
TABLE
* y
■m
m.
'swm
LENGTH 9 3"
WIDTH s'o"
ADJUSTABLE
HEIGHT
Obtainable from your
vtoolbroker, or
2'8I" to 3'l
wo^r
c
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. 8U2614
CAN BE A FEATURE
OF YOUR WOOLSHED
Featuring roller top with non-rust,
self, - lubricating, machine - tested
bearings, the Renlita wool table
will pay for itself in time saved by
quick handling. Only 1401 b. weight,
but very rigid, Renlita can be
quickly assembled and adjusted for
height by one man.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Merino Wanted
“Noiler”: Bretnall, Dalgety’s
wool-manager in Sydney, says
the world’s sheep-flocks have
steadily increased to 769 million,
the highest on record, and the
world’s wool clip this season at
2435 million pounds (clean) was
the biggest clean yield ever pro-
duced. Even this record pro-
duction would have been insuffi-
cient for world requirements,
except for a big carryover from
two seasons in Argentina and
Uruguay.
Bretnall said the world looks
to Australia for two-thirds of its
Merino supply. At 785 million
pounds (clean), the 1952 Merino
clip was 11 p.c. higher than in
the previous season, but was still
well below war-time peak-pro-
duction. Of significance to Aus-
tralia is the fact that much of
the increased production in 60’s
and finer during recent seasons
was in Argentina, where the
rising world demand for fine
wool has become recognised.
In N.S.W., where approxi-
mately 50 p.c. of the wool pro-
duced ip Australia is grown,
only 30 p.c. of the clip consists
of 64’s and 64/70’s. Queens-
land, with 99 p.c. of its clip
60’s and finer, offers 60 p.c. in
qualities 64’s . and 64/70’s.
South and West Australian clips
are approximately 90 p.c.
Merino, and predominantly
60’s to 64/60’s spinners. On the
other hand, Victoria produces
60 p.c. of the Australian cross-
bred clip, and offers only 40 p.c.
Merino in its clip ; while Tas-
mania, cradle of the Merino-
breeding industry, today pro-
■ duces 75 to 80 p.c. crossbred
wool, two-thirds of which is in
qualities 56’s to 60’s. If, as is
widely believed, the ultimate im-
pact of synthetics may fall
heaviest on crossbred wools
(unless they can compete in
price) the Merino may some day
have to stage a back-to-the-south
movement.
The Dairy Bull
“Mr.”: A farmer interested
only in milk or butter-fat pro-
duction would be ill-advised to
select a bull on show-perfofm-
ances alone. Apart from seeing
that the bull is healthy, sound
in leg and hoof, has a strong
normal jaw and is entire, and
that his close female relatives
have udders suited to machine-
, milking, concentrate on his pro-
duction-credentials.
Most farmers have to buy a
young bull on pedigree. Greatest
attention should be paid to his
closest'relatives. A distinguished
grandsire is of no advantage if
the bull’s own parents were
failures. An animal inherits half
its genetic make-up from each
parent, and each generation by
which an ancestor is removed
halves its influence. If the bull
is the progeny of a proved bull
and a cow with a high, lifetime
production, little can be gained
by looking further back in the
pedigree, though it’s as well to
check the production-figures of
his half-sisters and sisters.
One lactation of a sister pro-
vides as good an estimate of a
bull’s worth as one record of his
dam. The dam of a bull should
have demonstrated her ability to
calve regularly and produce at
a reasonable level for" at least
three lactations. A single-year
record is an unreliable indicator
of a cow’s transmitting ability, as
practically any cow can be
“Remember, Charlie , it wuz in th' shade of this tree
where We first met!”
force-fed for high production in
one lactation.
Th - ctrikinalv demon
. ; j as strikingly demon-
st y ated . in Denmark recently
when SIX cows on heavy four-
times-a-day feeding averaged
9241 b. “of butterfat in 365 days,
The previous year’s average was
3641 b. produced under normal
feeding.
More Big Yields
“Y. Dent”; R. Turner,
Wyangerie, with Victory hybrid,
won the R.A.S. championship
of the N.S.W. North Coast. The
crop is estimated to yield 110
bushels an acre. J. A. Blanch,
Carr’s Creek, Grafton (Victory),
has an estimated yield of 110
bushels, but lost points on
stand, J. F. Trench, Tabulam
(Standfast), 107 bushels, and
M. A. Joseph, Fernmount (Vic-
tory), 105 bushels.
Turner didn’t use fertiliser.
The crop was grown on fertile
alluvial-loam soil, and was the
fifth crop of maize to follow
natural pasture. Last year
Italian-rye and red-clover were
sown with the maize. The
growth from the pasture and
the old stalks of maize were
ploughed-in in late September.
The maize was sown on Decem-
ber 10 in rows 4ft. apart and
with two and three grains
dropped every 30in. An excel-
lent stand, comparatively clean
as a result of scuffling twice be-
tween the rows and light hilling,
the stalks stood 10ft. to 12ft.
high, and only a very odd stalk
lodged when the grain was ripe.
Blanch sowed his hybrid after
he had" twice used the land for
potato-growing. The potatoes
were ploughed-out in mid-
November, and during the first
week of December the land was
ploughed, harrowed, rolled and
sown. Again no fertiliser was
used.
Overfat Pigs
“Billjim”: To guard against
overfat pigs check the breeding-
stock carefully. Use sows and
boars which themselves would
have made-ideal baconers when
six months old, and keep to good
strains.
Even with the best breeding-
stock numbers of off-types are
likely to occur. Market them
when they’re fat enough, irres-
pective of size.
Best bacon-pigs are the fast-
growers, so give as much food,
with plenty of protein, minerals
and vitamins, as they will eat.
This will ensure that there is no
check to the growth of muscle,
with consequent leanness.
Insufficient trough-space often
causes overfatness, as some pigs
will crowd-out their fellows and
so get most of the food. Run-
ning pigs of various sizes in the
same yard can also lead to over-
fatness, as the bigger pigs will
get more than their share.
Feeding for Yield
“Kiwi”: The Animal Research
Division of N.Z. Department of
Agriculture recently proved that
cows well fed over the winter
months will produce from 261 b.
to 631 b. more butterfat per head
than the poorly fed.
Cows placed on good feed
from now until calving will have
ample reserves to draw on for
the first two months of lactation.
But N.Z, experts contend that
even liberal amounts of hay or
silage will not build up these
reserves if grass grazing is not
possible throughout the dry
periods.
As some paddocks will be
closed off to conserve autumn-
saved pastures for cows after
calving, the rest of the farm
should be grazed on a rotational
system.
Cows prefer grass to most
feed, and when sufficient spelling
is allowed between grazings a
continuity of growth is assured.
In addition the cows should be
fed all the hay they want, plus
201 b. of silage per cow per day.
Young Fruit Trees
“My”: Trees susceptible to
wet feet peaches, apricots,
cherries, citrus, apples, pears and
plums—should be planted on
well-drained sites. Three ways
of getting surface-water away are
surface-drainage, growing a
cover - crop or underground
drains.
To surface-drain, plough the
soil on to the trees across the
slope with a slight downfall,
leaving a broad drain down the
centre of the land. A bulky
cover-crop of tick-beans, dun-
peas or lupins will remove much
water by transpiration. A
heavy natural weed-growth will
serve the same purpose, though
it won’t enrich the soil as the
legumes would.
Of all the methods, tile-
drainage is best, though costly.
Cost can be broken down by
laying a few feet of drains each
year until the whole area is
treated, using surface-drains and
cover-crops in the meantime.
Beans for Goals
“Beete'e”: When considering
the usual backyard crops for
providing winter greens for the
goat don’t forget broad-beans.
Planted at intervals broad-beans
provide a useful source of greens
for animals. Nothing is wasted
—leaves, beans and stalks are all
eaten.
When cut judiciously the
beans will spring again, and will
be putting on growth while the
next lot are providing greens.
Broad-beans are not fussy in
choice of soil. They can be
grown anywhere.
Planting round the fence is a
good idea. The fence makes a
good shelter. Being legumes,
beans will be putting nitrogen
back into the soil for next year.
Guinea-grass
“Bill C.”: Guinea-grass, a
member of the panicum family
widely distributed along the
Queensland coast, is checking
lantana. The heavy-seeding,
tussocking African grows as tall
as the creeping Mexican and
beats it at its own smothering
game.
Lantana generally takes hold
most strongly on low-lying moist
flats, in damp, rich scrub
country. Berry-eating birds
spread its seed freely. Guinea-
grass likes similar country, and,
though its fine seed is of poor
fertility, it is produced so freely
that spread from seed is pretty
rapid.
In dry weather guinea-grass, a
gross feeding perennial, robs
near-by lantana of necessary
moisture. The lantana withers.
Then, when the guinea-grass
reaches its driest stage in late
winter (it never really loses a
green tinge) it can be burned.
The fire is slow, hot and
smoky. The guinea-grass ratoons
freely afterwards, but the
lantana is badly checked, if not
completely destroyed.
Guinea - grass is worth
encouraging as a forage-grass.
It stands up freely to heavy graz-
ing, or the grass may be allowed
to grow to a length of 4ft. or so
and then chaffed.


TILLEY** SupTCYuc 100% made
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
■; .
wm-
HQ
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TILLEY
products.
wm
mm
mP" yi
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only 1 i pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. MODEL TLIO6
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
%
4
%
%
'
*
4
%
t
(C)
V -
T"
R
7
%
%
%
YOUR GUESTS... WHILE
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DINNER
■
THE
*L\\\. M. a )* -eaVnst
, et \a\ 01
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. ltd;
(Established In N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents
for the AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ „ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS. . NO EMPTYING. . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
m
d
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
T 1
HE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 JBridge Street, Sydney.
Established ]or 20 years
~ DISTRIBUTORS: ' ,
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: E. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIIif: Q. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
Olive-trees
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Olives require
a Mediterranean climate with a
winter rainfall of 20in. or more.
To raise young trees, cut suckers
as thick as a broom-handle from
selected parent stocks and lay
in a seedbed, with a covering of
2in. of earth. These truncheons
will root and send up shoots
every foot or so. In a year’s
time they are dug up, cut be-
tween the shoots and planted
out. In plantations set out 200-
300 trees to the acre; along
fences as breakwinds and shelter
for stock, plant 20ft. apart.
A mature tree yields about
1501 b. of fruit yearly. It ripens
in May-June. Use only recom-
mended varieties.
Chicory in Pastures
“Cichoria”: A study made in
Great Britain has shown that
chicory is much higher than the
best grasses and clovers in iron,
manganese, copper and other
minor elements. It is also lower
in fibre-content than many other
pasture-plants.
The high mineral efficiency of
chicory is derived from its deep-
rooting habit, and this charac-
teristic is also of value in main-
taining feed of a high quality
during drought.
Graziers who may be con-
sidering the introduction of
some chicory into their per-
manent pasture should know
that the plant is slow to estab-
lish, and on account of its
extremely high palatability it is
easily eaten-out by overgrazing
in its young stages by hares, who
like it very much.
Hybrid Maize
“Agric”: P. W. Grogan, lec-
turer in plant-breeding at Gatton
Agricultural College (Q.), warns
farmers not to sow their own
hybrid-maize seed. Loss result-
ing from this had ranged from
20 to 40 per cent., he said,
although a Darling Downs
farmer obtained 23 bags per
acre from second-season hybrid-
maize seed.
This farmer, Grogan pointed
out, harvested 30 bags to the
acre the previous season, but he
was forced by circumstances to
plant seed from this crop in
1952-53, when his yield of 23
bags per acre was grown under
conditions similar to those of
the previous year.
One of the outstanding ad-
vantages of using certified
hybrid seed was the increase in
yield > which ran B ed from a
minimum of 15 per cent, to over
25 per cent, in some areas. No
hybrid seed ~w as cerdfied and
telLet° e r d 1
P "
Green Asparagus
“Sparrer” : The cost of pro-
ducing asparagus has com-
mercial growers worried just
now , and they consider that ex-
pensive trenching and deep-
planting should be scrapped.
There is no reason, except
traditional custom, for having
several inches of blanched
asparagus stem. In America
commercial growers and canners
have therefore turned largely to
green asparagus sown thickly in
its permanent location direct
from seed, cutting out the weak
and superfluous plants later,
The harvesting of green aspara-
gus is greatly simplified by snap-
ping or cutting the spears at
ground-level in place of the
laborious cutting below ground,
Surface-manuring is satisfac-
tory, and green asparagus is
tender and tasty and yields
better than blanched asparagus,
-- * , .
iviuicnmg
“Sarina”: The value of
mulching is not as well under-
stood as it should be. Many
look on it only as a means of
moisture-conservation and don’t
bother mulching if they have
plenty of water.
Mulching can eliminate the
need for much surface-cultiva-
tion. Many surface-rooting
plants do not like constant dis-
turbance around their roots, but
neither are they helped by the
soil packing solid around their
stems when a hot sun reaches
the freshly-watered ground.
Before a mulch is put down
the bed should be well watered
and then allowed to dry until
it can be loosened-up with a
troweL The mulch stloU } d ke f P
the soil loose for a good while*
despite further waterings.
Mulching always means more
and better seedlings from sown
seed. Dried horse - manure
rubbed up fine is best tor tins,
since it can be left where it is
and will provide liquid manure
J° r , the Q
bed JS watered.,^ Old grass,
eaveS ’ f c ” . t ji; ns
away wh + en * e r^fa VpH whfn
a PP ear > g be re P laced when
they are blg '
Dried, half-decayed leaves,
which may be gathered by the
sackful in any scrubby gully in
the bush, are ideal for mulch-
ing ferns, liliums, strawberries
and similar plants. Such plants
are quickly spoiled by the sun
baking their roots, and seeds-
men advise mulching them in this
way.
Main thing when collecting
leaf-mould in the bush is to
avoid weedy country. The leaf-
mould turns in easily and soon
rots away when old plants are
pulled out and the ground recul-
tivated.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: July is a good
month to prune most varieties
of shrubs, though evergreens
should be dealt with immedi-
ately after flowering. Pruners
should have two main objects in
view; first to maintain fresh
vigorous growth all over the
plant by cutting back well each
year; second tb prevent over-
crowding by spacing branches
evenly. This is done by cutting
to buds pointing in the right
direction. Most native shrubs
should not be cut back at all
but merely thinned-out.
“M.”: For cleansing milk
utensils use cold or lukewarm
water first; boiling water
hardens the albumen in the milk,
giving the tinware a scaly,
mottled appearance. Complete
the cleansing with a thorough
rinsing and scalding in boiling
water or put the utensil over a
steam-jet* for two or three
minutes. Place the sterilised
utensils in a clean rack to dry.
Never dry with a cloth.
“Big Billy”: A mixture of
N.Z. short-rotation rye and
N.Z. white-clover makes a good
lea-pasture. This combination
is particularly suited to Aus-
tralian land which has carried a
crop of potatoes, maize, flax or
vegetables. Recommended
quantities per acre are: rye
101 b. to 121 b., white-clover \\\h.
to 21b. Use lime freely.
“DJ.H.”: For best service
and value always obtain new
boars a few months before they
are required for service. This
enables them to settle down,
when they can be conditioned.
Virility improves and reaches its
maximum in young boars if
they spend the first two months
before breeding right away from
rearing quarters.
“Sundowner”: Citrus can use
profitably 81b. of sulpha te-of-
ammonia, 41b. in August and
the same amount in the follow-
ing December or January. Stone-
fruits don’t need so much ; 31b.
to 41b. per tree applied just be-
fore bud-burst is sufficient.
Growth of pome-fruits will be
improved by a pre-bud .burst
dressing of 21b. to 31b. of sul-
phate-of-ammonia, best applied
by broadcasting around the tree
before watering.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
In the northern half of the continent there is now little
prospect of rain until the end of July. The good rains of
late August may be heavy in the Herbert and Barron in
Queensland.
In the southern States, July shows good rains along the
southern coast. The N. S. Wales coast shows only light rains,
although there is the possible repetition of the great storm
of July, 1788.


Elements of an Industry . , .
No. 19 of a Series
<P
?■*
\
S'£ ft\lH
BROMINE In ancient Rome, purple was the sign of
Imperial rank. The dye they used for colouring their robes came
from a sea-snail called murex brandaris, found in the Mediterranean.
This dye is now known to be a compound of the element bromine—
the only bromine compound ever found in a living organism.
Bromine, a brown, fuming liquid related chemically to the greenish-
yellow gas chlorine, is highly corrosive and dangerous to handle. Its
name derives from the Greek " (ipuuoi" a stench. Most of the
bromine needed by industry today is, like that used by the Romans,
extracted from seawater, but the extraction process is carried out by
chemists instead of by sea-snails. During the war 1.C.1. helped to
develop a factory in Cornwall where bromine is extracted from sea-
water to make ethylene dibromide—a chemical used with tetra-ethyl
lead in the production of anti-knock petrol. Photography needs
silver bromide, which is used in practically all films and plates and
many kinds of photographic paper; methyl bromide is employed in
one type of modern fire extinguisher, and potassium bromide in
medicine.
In Great Britain 1.C.1. uses bromine compounds to make some of
the ‘Caledon’ and ‘Durindone’ dyestuffs used for the dyeing of cotton.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
L.4*A.aiee
Missing Friend
IF WILLIAM HUDSON, formerly of
Opotiki, N.Z., of Maori race, aged about
42, last heard from over 20 years ago,
then working on a sugar plantation in
Queensland, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to
his advantage. Friends are requested to
bring this advertisement to his notice,
and anyone knowing his whereabouts or
of his death is requested to write
A. G. T. BRYAN, Solicitor, Thames, N.Z.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W, RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
in many fights myself, I have
never derived much pleasure
from watching barefist
encounters since the day when,
as an adult, I saw one damnable
battle. A smallish chap had been
goaded by his opponent to the
point of madness. He was
desperate and he could not be
induced to admit defeat. Some
power kept him on his feet as,
his eyes staring and his face con-
torted, he kept rushing at his
adversary, oblivious to the
frightful punishment that was
being inflicted on him. It took
six of us eventually to restrain
him. It was something abso-
lutely new in my experience and
I never want to see the same
thing again.
Our fights were friendly
affairs, a way of getting rid of
surplus energy.
* ♦
All our family had to work—
hard. The older boys, while still
at school, used to scratch up a
few shillings a week by carting
firewood for neighbors (2s. 6d,
for a drayload of dockings) or
cutting scrub and blackberry for
the gallant few who were carving
farms out of the virgin bush.
These all deserved the Victoria
Cross for their efforts. The
stony, swampy ground grew but
a scanty pasture, and where the
farms were intersected by creeks
and rivers, all of which had their
origin in the mountains near by
and which were liable to flood-
ing, the hazards of caring for the
stock and getting the produce
out to the railhead were far from
negligible.
One fellow had to carry his
cream-cans out to the railway
on his back, a distance of about
half a mile through a swamp.
In the course of his journey he
had to cross an arm of a river.
His “bridge” was a tree he had
felled and which spanned the
banks. He had squared the
upper surface of the log with an
adze and had run a wire across
three feet above his bridge, to
hang on to while negotiating the
passage. The log was always wet
and slippery, and when the river
was in high flood the water
lapped over it. His prospect of
getting out of the stream alive,
if he had ever fallen in when the
river was high, would not have
been too bright, for it was a
veritable torrent of whirlpools
and upthrust rocks.
All these “farmers” were
accustomed to doing a full day’s
work in the near-by sawmills or
in the bush (logging, or cutting
silverpine sleepers and birch pit-
props) before tackling their
work on the farms. The best of
the farms, even when fully
developed, could not yield a
decent living. One of the men
"Don't worry about those wheels falling off —I have a motor-bike licence .”
had to swim a river daily—it
was about eighty yards across—
to get to and from his work.
Before he made this journey, and
after he came home, he milked
up to ten cows by hand.
* * *
From the age of about nine to
eleven my main job for the day
was to get up at five and cook
breakfast for my elder brother,
who had got a job in a
place distant about three miles
in the bush, and who had to walk
most of the way and be ready
to start work at seven.
My mother, who rose about
seven, got breakfast for the rest
of the family and, after milking
the cow, attended to her multi-
farious duties. She was a regis-
tered nurse, and on occasion,
when looking after a patient, she
would be away from home for
up to a fortnight at a time. My
eldest sister then took over the
cooking and housework, aided
by such of us as she could induce
to lend a hand. Apart from my
culinary duty, I had to keep the
house supplied in wood, drive
the cow home at night for milk-
ing and run messages.
When I was twelve my teacher,
who had a soft spot in her heart
for me, induced my mother to
send me to high school, fourteen
miles distant. Some difficulty
arose by reason of the fact that
there was not enough money
available to pay board (work
was intermittent in the sawmills),
but inquiries revealed that I
could get free travel on the rail-
ways. I could connect with a
train four miles away, travel ten
miles by rail—the journey by
train occupied precisely an hour
—then walk the remaining mile
and get to my destination at
about ten, so missing an hour’s
schooling each morning and
another half-hour in the after-
noon, when, in common with
another dozen pupils, I had to
leave early to catch the train
home.
Thenceforth, the days seemed
rather long. Up at five, leave
home at eight, trundle my
ancient cycle over the rutted hilly
road to the junction, then reverse
the process in the afternoon. My
parents decided that, now that I
had embarked upon an academic
career, my new-found dignity
warranted my being supplied
with boots, but I discarded these
when I found that some of the
town kids, whose parents were
as hard-up as mine, never wore
them.
What I lacked most was an
overcoat. All I had was a saw-
miller’s “butterfly,” a fight oilskin
cape with no sleeves —a garment
worn in wet weather by bush-
men whose arms had to be left
free. It was not much protection
against the driving rain, and it
was seldom that I didn’t arrive
at school soaked to the skin. I
never minded that personally,
but my teachers seemed to worry
about it. Later, I got an over-
coat and it was stolen from me
within a week. I never got
another.
Biking along that road on a
winter’s night used to be a night-
mare. For a long time I had
no fight and had to go carefully,
dismounting to traverse the
worst patches. But my troubles
went deeper than that. I had
always been scared of the dark
and had a lively fear of spooks,
several of which had been
reported by the villagers, (I
never saw one myself. I learned
afterwards that the “spooks”
originated as incandescent marsh
gas—will-o’-the-wisp in the
many swamps along the road.)
At one point I had to pass an
evil spot —I still regard it as an
evil place—where, over the
years, there had been no fewer
than four suicides. Three men,
one of whom I had known, had
shot themselves there ■ and
another had thrown himself into
the river.
On reaching the clearing where
they had lived I would close my
eyes and pedal frantically, trust-
ing to luck and my sense of
direction to keep on the road till
I had left the damned settlement
behind.
Fortunately nothing untoward
ever happened in the way of
spectral ‘appearances, else my
schooldays would have ter-
minated abruptly.
Arrived within half a mile of
my home, I had to dismount and
look for the cow, whose pasture
was the “long paddock”—the
roadside. I located her by the
sound of the bell hung round her
neck. She was a quiet old thing
and rarely gave me trouble
except when feed was scarce and
she had to wander far into the
bush in search of grass and
edible shrubs.
Home, tea, then off to my shed
with a candle to do my home-
work. Fortunately, swotting was
little trouble to me. I happen
to have an excellent memory
and am an exceptionally fast
reader. (Later, after I had left
school, in my spare-time I
swotted for and passed a profes-
sional examination and gained
two university degrees without
attending a single lecture or hav-
ing any other assistance what-
ever except in respect to two of
the several dozen subjects I
took.)
♦ ♦ ♦
After a year or so my family’s
finances improved by reason of
another brother having gone out
to work at the ripe age of fifteen,
and for a time I boarded near
high school. This was a pleasant
change, but I could never get it
out of mind that my upkeep was
burdensome to my parents and
brothers, as indeed it was, so
after I had secured a pass in the
public-service-entrance examina-
tion I decided to end my
scholastic career.
After leaving school f got a
job on a bush farm milking
twenty-two cows daily by hand.
That meant getting up at
3.30 a.m., because it took at least
aft hour to find the cows, which
had to travel far and wide to
find something to eat. The milk-
ing over, I had to separate the
cream, feed the pigs, take the
cream-cans to the station, have
breakfast, and then set to work
cutting blackberry and burning-
off fern. Wages, 255. a week, of
which 245. went into the family
funds and Is. to myself.
I held the job for two months.
Then 1 received a telegram from
somebody called “Pubsercom”
(it was the Public Service Com-
missioner) offering me a job “as
a clerical cadet” in a Govern-
ment department.
The word “clerical” bothered
me no end. I had always con-
nected it with the church, and I
knew very little about religion.
My parents were equally be-
wildered, but, in the finish, I
resigned myself to a lifelong
study of the Bible, and, if neces-
sary, to preaching whatever
gospel Pubsercom favored, I
wired my acceptance, and
presently found myself ensconced
in an office where I was put in
charge of a pile of ledgers.
Much to my relief nothing was
said about biblical studies,
though I had prepared myself
for this eventuality by swotting
up a dozen or so chapters, start-
ing with Genesis.
Wages, 355. a week, of which
30s. went in board, till I found
a “bach” which I rented for ss.
a week, cooking my own meals
and doing my own washing. The
days of affluence had arrived.
My first purchase was an over-
coat.
* * ♦
Well, that’s that.
In retrospect, I would not like
my early life to ha ( ve been any
easier. At any rate, it taught
me how to work hard and how
to be contented with little —
something which, X feel, the
rising generation is not so well
aware of.
I left the service years ago and
have a well-paid and satisfying
job. I keep it and get paid more
year by year because I simply
cannot get rid of the habit of
hard work. We have a forty-
hour week in New Zealand, but
I cannot recall a single week
during which I have worked for
only forty hours. X doubt if
there ever will be one.
Further, my rather rough up-
bringing, including the entire
absence of parental restrictions
and pampering in any shape or
form, has given me supreme
self-confidence and a healthy
body, both of which I consider
to be priceless assets.
Often I am inclined to wish
that my own boys had had
similar experiences. This world
is a mighty tough place, and the
earlier one comes to grips with
it the better.


SMITH’S LONDON JOURNAL
by H. Allen Smith
In which the famed American writer
(remember Rhubarb, for instance?)
records his 1951 visit to London.
He reveals what he saw, whom he
saw, and whether he was sore as he
toured, and strove to imitate the
English Gentleman. It’s the wittiest
book of the year.
20/- (post 9d.)
BIG RED
by Henry G. Lamono
A dramatic story —starkly realistic,
movingly beautiful —of Big Red, a
kangaroo of western Queensland.
The Bulletin reviewer said: “The
book is . . a truly magnificent
nature-story. Keen observation and
its rough vigour are its strengths.
18/9 (post 9d.)
Write, ’phone, or call in for these, or any of the new books now available at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
C..llere» 8 h St., Sydney == 66-68 Elizabeth St, Melbourne,
The most graphic account of Warfare in the
annals of military history
THE ROMMEL PAPERS
Edited by 6. H. Liddell Hart
Now Available From All Booksellers
COLLINS
THE GLITTER AND THE GOLD
by Consuelo Vanderbilt Balsan
Thirty-five pages of illustrations, frontispiece and jacket in full colour
from a painting by Sargent.
An intimate autobiography of the young American heiress who became
ninth Duchess of Marlborough. A witty book that intensely recreates the
atmosphere and emotion of spacious Edwardian days.
At all booksellers - * 18/9
Melbourne
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
. ; London : : Auckland
to drift about in an open boat until
seen by a Catalina (page 269) or there-
after towed by Italian fishermen through
Sydney Heads (page 273). After the
torpedoing, a Bulletin writer on the
leading corvette saw the Mildura go back,
putting herself against the light, a danger-
ous thing to do with submarines about,
to pick up the survivors of the Iron
Knight—which gives a very different pic-
ture of the%Navy from what Miss Cusack
records of the Steel Duke.
Landy marries the.Boulton girl and
goes to sea again; once more the
Japanese submarine blows hini up; the
crew take to the boats, but on the dis-
appearance of the submarine return to
the remains of their ship. There, an
unexpected explosion kills Landy. Once
more there is criticism —of the slowness
of the Air Force, and of the fact that it
is left to a tug to tow the ship home;
moreover, no provision is made for saved
members of the crew in the funeral-
procession of the killed. Bar, from whom
Roz withheld a telegram inviting him
to his brother’s wedding, at least is driv-
ing in his funeral, and picks up the
slighted sailors.
Rud, the union-secrettary-brother, does
little in the book but hang bodefully
about; there is also reference to their
sister, Pearl, and the time when, in “the
depression,” in some circumstance in
which “the moratorium” did not operate,
she was ejected from her squalid home
by a huge force of police.
The story is thus a view of Newcastle
from the Left; and the picture of New-
castle itself might be described as a
tourist’s view—Nobby’s, Stockton, Mere-
weather Beach sketched-in; a visit to a
steelworks to see steel being poured;
a cocktail-party in a refined suburb; a
beer-party at the Boultons’ —it could all
have been picked-up in a few days.
Which is not to say that Miss Cusack
does not know her Newcastle, or that
the mental attitudes and social conflicts
she presents are not of Newcastle.
But for anyone who spent a childhood
there, and picks up Miss Cusack’s book,
and expects to be reminded of things,
it’s not the old Coalhole at all. Maybe
the whole place has changed. But there
used to be layer upon, layer of New-
castle. In the early part of this century
there were stiff the remnants of old
orchards on the river flats not so far
from the steelworks —no doubt these are
now all under the long lines of steel-
workers’ brick cottages. Then there was
coal, with the almost legendary John
Brown brooding blackly over the town;
and the warehouses of trade; and the
expanding suburbs—there was the New-
castle of river-boats that Will Lawson
has written a little about—all these
things form a consciousness which the
reader of Miss Cusack’s book will seek
in vain; indeed, only a writer born there
and sticking it out (if one may so ex-
press it) could hope to capture the tone.
On the other hand, if Miss Cusack
had tried to evoke the spirit of New-
castle at more length, one might have
accused her of sacrificing the story to the
atmosphere ; a critic, Chesterton quoted
from someone else, should be easy to
please and hard to satisfy. The love-
stories, at any rate, are well-handled —
Miss Cusack is at her best in explaining
in action the apparent contradictions of
behavior of women in love ; with men
she is, like most women-writers, more
eager than able to be right.
Jindyworobak Anthology
Edited by Arthur Murphy, the 1952
Jindyworobak Anthology (Jindyworobak,
Melbourne) continues its trend of recent
years when it has lost much of its
original, naive insurgence as a vehicle
for nationalist verses, mostly about
gibber-plains and aborigines, and has not
been quite certain what else to become.
Perhaps, since it now covers much the
same ground as Angus and Robertson’s
Australian Poetry but finds more space
for promising new writers and established
minor writers who are still worth listen-
ing to, it is becoming essentially a place
for these voices to be heard; and as such
is performing a useful service.
The present issue contains a set of love-
lyrics by such writers as T. Inglis Moore,
R. G. Howarth, Arthur Murphy and
others ; there are a number of poems re-
printed from The Bulletin, some con-
tinuing the anthology’s desert tradition,
others of the bush in general, by Judith
Wright, Douglas Stewart, Ray Mathew,
Olive Pell, Christopher Koch, Vivian
Smith, Eve Langley, Nancy Keesing,
Irene Gough and Roland E. Robinson ;
while other contributors, mostly on coun-
try themes, include Peter Bladen, Robert
Crossland, Paul Grand, Colin Thiele,
A. H. Choate and Rex In gam ells.
The standard is uneven, yet the col-
lection runs along pleasantly enough.
There is one moment of transcendent
power in Judith Wright’s image of crea-
tion ;
And round each headland of the world,
each drenching rock-
crowding each wild spray-drop, as in the
womb’s calm lying,
they beat and whirl on the waves, the
invisible legion
of momentary crystals, less-than-a-second’s-
tick-
lives, love’s first and everywhere creation;
so small, so strong, that nothing of all this
mad rock-torn
surge and violence, not the storm’s final
desperation
touches them, busy in the unhurt stillness
breeding and dying.
And for the rest one finds pleasure in
Paul Grano’s “Birds Singing” ; in Colin
Thiele’s “drops of sunshine” falling from
the grass; in Australia’s long-lost inland
seas talking “in crumbling shelly langu-
age” in Eve Langley’s “Sand” ; in Roland
Robinson’s huge sun smiting him “like a
burning-glass” in “The Siding”; and in
the young Tasmanian writer Vivian
Smith’s making his first anthology-
appearance with the melancholy but
musical and deeply-felt sea-pieces, “Bed-
lam Hills” and “Sea Lion.”
It is odd that this anthology, with its
nationalist tradition, failed to discover
lan Mudie’s “They’ll Tell You About
Me,” a vigorous and amusing, if facile,
epitome of Australian mythology which
made quite a splash when it was printed
in The Bulletin last year.
"Arawata Bill"
Denis Glover’s Arawata Bill (Pegasus
Press, Christchurch) is interesting as one
of the first arrivals in New Zealand of
semi-epical narrative poetry * such as
Stephen Vincent Benet and Vachel
Lindsay wrote in America and such as
we have had in Australia from Slessor,
Fitz Gerald, Francis Webb and William
Hart-Smith.
In a more formal style New Zealand
has had a step towards the historical
narrative in Allen Curnow’s poem on
Tasman. Robin Hyde’s unpublished
poem on the Baron de Thierry and Gloria
Rawlinson’s set of verses on the history
of Auckland, parts of which have ap-
peared in The Bulletin, are others in
the same field. Mr. Glover’s poem,
simpler in style and aim, more human,
more approachable than what one has
seen of these other narratives, may well
attract a wider circle of readers.
“Arawata Bill,” or William O Leary,
was a fossicker, born in 1898 and dying
in 1947, who searched for gold among
the mountains of the South Islands ;
where, to quote from Mr. Glover’s excel-
lent opening landscape:
Mountains nuzzle mountains
White-bearded rock-fronted
In perpetual drizzle.
The mountains send below
Their cold tribute of snow
And the birch makes brown '
The rivulets running down.
Mr. Glover tells Bill’s story, or attempts
to distil the essence of it, in a sequence
of 25 short poems done in a felicitous
blending of lyrical and ballad styles. His
method is more like Hart-Smith’s in
Christopher Columbus than that of any
other of the Australian narrative-writers
and indeed (with a dash of Eliot in “And
the river sluices with many voices”) he
has probably been directly influenced by
that poet, who is now living in New
Zealand. By comparison with the melody
and spiritual depth of Hart-Smith’s
astonishingly beautiful sequence:
They saw a rope of cloud twist down
and a tongue of sea drawn up as the whirl-
wind blew,
drinking the ocean up in a plume of foam.
‘Santa Maria, look! . . . How far is
home! ’ —
Arawata Bill is at time v s bare and
shallow:
Mother of God, in this brazen sun
Lead me down from the arid heights
Before my strength is done.
Give me the rain
That not long since I cursed m vam.
Lead me to the river, the life-giver.
But there are also occasions when Mr.
Glover gets deep and strong effects ot
his own, as in the sinister and ingenious
off-rhymes of
The river was announcing
An ominous crossing
With the boulders knocking . . .
and throughout the sequence there is a
genial robustness in the presentation ol
the legendary old fossicker:
With his weapon a shovel
To test the river gravel .
His heart was as big as his boots
As he headed over the tops
In blue dungarees and a sunset hat.
On the whole the effect remains slight;
but Arawata Bill is still a very pleasant
piece of writing ; and. a significant con-
tribution to New Zealand literature ; and
certainly, so far as this reviewer is aware,
much the best thing Denis Glover has
yet published.
Sanctuary: William Faulkner (Pen-
guin). - Reprint of what is probably
Faulkner’s most living novel. It is a
dramatic description of life in the under-
world of Tennessee and the Deep South.
A murder occurs in a group of illicit
whisky-dealers, and one unfortunate man
is unjustly accused. Faulkner does more
than give a narrative of a crime he
endeavors to understand the motives be-
hind every act of the group of degener-
ates and outcasts, and he succeeds in
making his characters intensely human.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 234
Across
I— Saves bronchos from bronchitis,
but they’re handy for airing in
hotels or chess. (7, 6)
7—Rule places- Indians. (7)
9—Bankrupt horse tree. (7)
ll Unstumpable rise. (8)
12—Put on Giovanni. (3)
15 — Feather neckwear hasn’t a leg to
stand on. (3)
16 — Yours Truly is a canine expres-
sion board. (6)
17 — Mimi halved a comedian state
wattle. (6)
18— It is opposed to delivery. (3)
19 — Grey and heavy meadow lair. (6)
20 — Hope to follow a big hit for
money. (3-3)
21 — Stall canonises this lot. (3)
23 It holds up the laundry. (3)
24 Manly way to misrepresent the
cot-horse. (3, 5)
27 This’ is noted for its blue piano
power behind the Iron Curtain.
(7)
28 — Pop musical instruments for the
Pope. (7)
'.9— It’s game of Wotan giving
Brunnhilde a smack. (4, 2,3, 4)
Down
1 — Mongrel takes the 6.51 to close
about arcs and parabolas. (11)
2 Put in a protest over the dance
at which the billiardist fires?
(6, 4)
3 Home-wreckers are crooks who
impoverish the Reps? (5-8)
4 Person in gaol. (4)
5 Thus America is French under
money. (4)
6 Drawbacks common with this
weariness. (3)
B—Alarm ring is neither good nor
bad, just indifferent. (4)
10—Cheap bike among the regular
evolutions of our financial and
commercial system. (8, 5)
13 — Hazardless gasping in crime. (4-7)
14— Nip past a fragment. (3)
15 — Arab horse eyes are about to ro.l
for a brilliant music-maker. (10)
17 — Put a crew into one of the
British isles. (3)
18— Wager haff of the Little Black
Princess. (3)
22—Crack this cove. (4)
25 — Broncho’s do this for a dollar
....and does love him. (4)
26 — Heel one Turkish judge. (4>
27 Hock report. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 233


**«S5
I ii mm cm tm ran
I H ii cm era on ran
I nil till cm an as j 1
i ||l,aI " 3 ”S!S”
i iihob^S 1
I H ll 1
ini
11:11?
Wl II
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY,
Dr. W. J. McCRISTAL.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR. A.F.1.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold. K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.I.C.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager; J. M. Hannan, F.I.C.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager: D. W. Chaffei
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1952:
★ NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue of 9.8
Policies assuring £11,116,344.
★ ASSETS INCREASED BY £1,582,364 after previdin
for Depreciation, and now total £23,478,342.
q Policies in Force exceed 122,000, assuring
over £73,000,000
q Premium Income amounted to £2,629,956
q Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1952,
totalled £921,520, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£14,750,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878)
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
