

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
ENLARGED EASTER NUMBER
“The Bulletin,’Wol. 74—No. 3816
Wednesday, April 1, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a,Newspaper
Seppelts
The Fort-like
Bishop’s Palace of Wells
AT the foot of the Mendip Hills in
Somerset is the ancient city of Wells,
which contains one of the smallest, but
one of the most beautiful, of English
cathedrals. Its West facade with over
six hundred statues is the finest example
of Early English (1190-1280) architecture
in England The buildings round the
Cathedral, particularly the Vicar’s Close,
a street of medieval houses, and the
Bishop’s Palace are no less remarkable.
The Palace and its gardens occupy an
area of seven acres, protected from former
enemies by crenellated walls and a moat
fed by wells gushing from secret depths
below which give the city its name. In
earlier days the Bishops had sole control
over the city’s water supply, and for this
reason they sometimes coerced the
citizens, but in the fifteenth century
Bishop Beckington built a conduit to the
market-place for their use. The fortifica-
tions surrounding the Palace were built
in the thirteenth century by Bishop Ralph,
who probably found that the wearing of
a mitre was as uneasy a headgear as a
crown. In those medieval days the
Church was indeed a church militant and
bishops knew the art of war better than
their prayers.
The Palace, as it exists today, was
mainly the work of Bishop Jocelin
(1206-42) and these ancient buildings in-
corporate a banqueting hall, picture
gallery and chapel. Guarding the
entrance is a gatehouse with a drawbridge
across the wide moat in which the swans
are a universal source of attraction owing
to their habit of ringing a bell when
hungry. For nearly a hundred years the
swans at Wells have rung for their
dinner, ever since the days when the first
swan was taught to pull the bell-rope by
the daughter of a Victorian Bishop of
Wells. The original swan is preserved
in the city museum and its descendants
have never failed to carry on the tradi-
tion.


rmr*
Ui
Write now lor Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Kuss'cll Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAlV———
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 153) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z. t specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest.' Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z.-, South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6J,
The Red Page
ANOUILH AND HIS PLAYS
Nothing that is said about Anouilh
can be as fascinating as what he says
himself, either when his plays are read
or, preferably, when they are acted ; and
even when the plays are acted in English
the acting needs a French sparkle and
the translation has to be as sensitive as
was Christopher Fry’s version of “Ring
Round the Moon.”
Analysis, like analysis of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” or “The
Tempest,” must inevitably tend to destroy
the magic. You can’t take a butterfly
to pieces ; and it is in the butterfly quality
of his writing, the poetry, the atmosphere,
the radiance, that Anouilh’s strength
lies. The same is true of “The Cherry
Orchard”; the surrounding climate of
poetry, the air itself, like the garden
and the lanterns and the moonlight in
“Ring Round the Moon,” is as im-
portant as the words that are spoken.
Still, critics must be allowed to practise
their craft, if only to prevent a very
painful form of unemployment; and it
is obviously necessary for someone to
explain what Anouilh is trying to do
when, as Edward Owen Marsh informs
us in Jean Anouilh (W. H. Allen, Ltd.),
one of his plays, “Ardele,” was greeted
by the London dramatic critics with such
extraordinary outcries as;
the fashionable M. Anouilh here gives
us as distasteful and offensive a play as
ever saw the stage.
with the aid of M. Anouilh’s masterly
but evilly misdirected sense of theatre a
dirty hand is smeared across the picture
and sentiment is, turned to gruesome
obscenity.
....an evening which is one long wallow
of unedifying lechery has left me still
completely in the dark as to its justifica-
tion on grounds of art, philosophy, dramatic
skill or entertainment.
“Ardele” is a play about a hunch-
backed girl who has fallen in love with
a hunchbacked tutor. She never appears
on stage but, throughout the play, while
the other members of her family expose
their various quarrels, lusts and hatreds,
remains locked in her room, where
eventually her hunchbacked lover joins
her, and they shoot themselves. She is
Anouilh’s symbol of pure love in a
corrupt world, and she and her lover
choose to die rather than come out of the
locked room and suffer the inevitable
corruption of “the world’s slow stain.”
One may not agree with Anouilh’s
despairing philosophy,, which may be
temperamental or may partly arise from
disgust at the war-time decadence of
France —a mood which has affected even
the most robust of contemporary French
writers, the delightful Gabriel Chevallier
—but it is worth reading Mr. Marsh to
realise that this “gruesome obscenity” is
essentially a highly moral parable about
the necessity for purity of soul. It is
also full of comedy.
All Anouilh’s plays, Mr. Marsh points
out, turn on this one theme: the inevit-
able corruption of innocence (not to be
confused with chastity) in a world ruled
by money, ambition and bitterness of
heart. In the comedy translated as “Ring
Round the Moon” the young dancer
makes the millionaire tear up his money
—though afterwards he prudently takes
up his business-career again. In the bitter
tragedy of “Antigone,” which caused
such a controversy in France when it was
first performed during the war, some
people thinking it favored the Vichyites
and others the Resistance, Antigone
chooses to perish for some dim-descried
principle of incorruptibility even though
she admits Creon may be right in dis-
honoring her brother’s body and that her
gesture is in a sense ridiculous because
the brother was a wastrel as well as a
traitor.
It is a philosophy, really, of universal
suicide; but Anouilh, one imagines,
hardly expects his audiences to go sp far
as that, and one sees him not so much
as a stern moralist as a kind of modern,
sophisticated Hans Andersen—it is the
vision of radiance and innocence and
poetry, along with the witty comedy, that
matters most in his plays.
Though, as is almost inevitable, Mr.
Marsh seems to tread rather heavily in
this enchanted world, detailing the plots
and discussing the philosophy while the
poetry waits outside the window, Jean
Anouilh is a book , which had to be
written and which anyone interested in
this great modern playwright, whether
from the theatrical or critical point of
view, will find invaluable. It gives a
full account of all Anouilh’s plays and
tells what brief anecdotes of his life the
playwright has allowed to be known —
he is 43, the son of a tailor, and as
usual failed to impress the theatre-
managers when his plays were first
offered to them.
Do Insects Think?
Miss Evelyn Cheesman, former curator
of insects at the London zoo, was last
encountered, in a wonderful nature-book
with the absurd title Six-Legged Snakes
in New Guinea, dashing alone through
the mountains of that forbidding land.
Her latest book, Insects Indomitable
(Bell), is one of those sedentary and con-
scientious surveys which successful
naturalists are often asked to write by
their publishers, covering the whole field
of recent insect-information, and in the
hands of another writer might be dull.
It is, in fact, not so fresh from the earth
as Six-Legged Snakes. But nothing can
really pin Miss Cheesman to a desk or
bottle her lifelessly in a museum.
At one moment in , this packed collec-
tion of oddities she is back in New
Guinea, making herself into a living
stepping-stone so that wasps heavily laden
with their prey may conveniently pause
before flying on to their nests. Then
she is in the New Hebrides cutting up
hollow stems of tree-ferns to look for
beetles and crickets and finding fifteen
camouflaged ants.
Then she is on Borabora, wherever that
may be—the Society Islands, one learns,
on re-examining the text —watching some
extremely well-meaning ants which, when
one of their number got his jaws stuck
in some melted toffee, pulled him this way
and that in comradely attempts to release
him and, when every other method had
failed, thoughtfully bit his head off—“so
that problem was solved to everybody’s
satisfaction except the headless one.”
In New Guinea again she comes upon
a superb and ferocious battle between a
large, hairy, bird-eating spider and a
purple-black wasp ; in which the wasp,
after mercilessly hunting the spider from
one retreat to another, up trees and under
logs, in bushes and around stones, eventu-
ally forces it to stand at bay in a hollow
in a mossy stump;- —
A spider’s vulnerable part is its soft
abdomen, and this the wasp attacks, trying
to place a sting where it can paralyse a
nerve-centre. This wasp was trying to get
underneath the spider or pass along its side,
and at the same time avoid the mandibles,
which can strike with incredible swiftness. 1
should have liked to see every detail, but
even with my face near the ground 1 could
see only the movements. The wasp would
make a dart. The spider, with the armored
fore-part of the body upraised, protecting
its hinder-part, barred the way, and tried'
to strike downwards. The wasp retired,
and made a fresh attempt on the other side,
which was again frustrated. This manoeuvre
was repeated 1 do. not know how many
times.
The wasp, like Nelson, won the battle
but perished in the hour of victory; it
half-paralysed the spider, thought it dead,
went in to collect the body and was
bitten by the dying enemy. The story, not
for the first time in the book, brings Miss
Cheesman to what seems to be her central
theme; do insects think?
At first Miss Cheesman seems inclined
to take the narrowly orthodox view of
insect-behavior: that, because they have
nothing resembling a brain in their
cranium, they do not think and are en-
tirely motivated by “instinct.” A de-
capitated female moth will lay her eggs,
even mate with her lover, and there
certainly seems nothing like -intelligence
in such insensitive behavior.
But then if ants appear to communi-
cate with each other by tapping with
their feelers ; and if ants which like to
live in the tuber-roots of some climbing
plants have been found actually to start
these aerial gardens by carrying seeds up
the trees ; and if amazon- and sword-ants
make raids on other species to bring home
slaves which must do all the domestic
work (even to feeding their masters with
predigested food from their own crops);
and if the fearful driver-ants of Africa
will make bridges of their own living
bodies across a dish of water so that
others may march over them to attack a
man sleeping in bed; and if the fungus-
growing ants sow the spores of fungus on
beds of leaves which they prepare under-
ground, and have the young ants carried
from the nurseries to browse on the
strange white threads “like flocks of
lambs” ; and if the large red tree-ants
of New Guinea and Queensland which
bind their leafy nests with silk have been
discovered to bring their own larvae up
from the nest, when they are about to
weave their cocoons, and to hold them
in the air like living shuttles to spin some
of their silk and bind the leaves together
—gradually Miss Cheesman seems to sur-
render to her own weight of evidence ;
and after turning from ants to wasps
(which always seem specially dear to her)
and observing “individual actions” such
as the slaying of the spider, and
a potter-wasp which, while others
continued to try to build their nests with
an unsatisfactory dry clay, flew to a
dripping tap and moistened its load of
building-material, in the end the naturalist
decides: “There does indeed appear to
be among insects a kind of elementary
consciousness which is best described as
awareness.”
Since the insect-race as a whole, Miss
Cheesman believes, “has an un-
conscious ideal and develops towards
it,” and since anything more than this
elementary awareness would obviously
be extremely perilous to man, it might
be as well if none of them were en-
couraged to read this fascinating and
stimulating book.
THE ARAB COLT
Flame, O flame of oride,
So hot with life and corn
Stark white and fierce he burns,
And not a color of smoke
Stains the flame, his hide,
But a tremble of rising air
Bespeaks the heat inside.
O marvel of shifting light.
0 wonder of muscle-ripple.
1 shame to stand and look
At the lights that startle his neck,
Such glory the shadows that dapple
White on white on white.
Hammers of flint his hooves
To strike the way with sparks
As he moves like a shooting star;
And eyes so vital are
That sparks are dull beside.
Carry me fierce and far
Till hoof-drum, wind-snort sound
A rise and fall, a tide
Of sound and echo-sound
To burden a thousand winds
That bear it a while, then loose
To quicken a thousand minds,
“Life, O thundering life.”
' N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
Tasmania Today
A most amazing pedestrian, as Conrad
would have said, Mr. E. T. Emmett set
out one day to walk 121 miles in Tas-
mania and kept on till he had done
1400 miles, some of them through coun-
try as magnificently wild and rough as
you could find anywhere in the world;
Crossing button-grass bogs with a wary
eye for snakes, we encountered a devilish
tangle of the bush which Tasmanian ex-
plorers have cursed for nearly a century
and a half. Tea-tree, cutting-grass and
bauera grasped our packs, encircled our
legs and lacerated our hands. With scarcely
enough breath left to curse we reached the
top of the divide and descended through a
similar inferno to the shores of a sheet of
water known to the dozen-or-so people who
had seen it as Lake Vera. To scramble
along its mile of length to the far end
took nearly two hours, for every known
forest-obstacle impeded us, including that
devil-tree, the horizontal
The next day’s journey will live in my
memory for ever and a day. Beeches, tree-
ferns and fifty other species beautified
our breathless way; grass-trees touching
50ft. in height reared their strange heads
among the commoner flora, the rare climbing
epacris with its long pink and scarlet bells
festooned remains of dead beeches and
hung in ropes above our heads; gay fungi,
red and tangerine, lip-shaped, reminded us
of the prevailing female fashion, and behind
the forest towered the sheer white cliffs
dripping their eternal shower-bath upon the
puny mortals who had puffed and sweated
their way towards the pass.
On this and some other journeys Mr.
Emmett reports in Tasmania by Road
and Track (Melbourne University Press).
He was for many years director of the
Tasmanian Tourist Department and
founded the Hobart Walking Club.
He inspects a well where once some
revenue-officer was laid to rest for spying
on a publican; he comes upon relics
and anecdotes of such bushrangers as
Martin Cash,ißrady and Michael Howe ;
he tells of th biggest freshwater-eel this
reviewer has ever heard of, weighing
42 pounds; he collects and eats
a hare which had been stunned by an
eagle ; dips ido convict records; meets
an old Swedisi ferryman who spends his
time in his rebote hut rereading his 600
books and paying his hundred roll-'
records on iis old-fashioned phono-
graph ; sees snake-catchers playing
jauntily with their horrible captives;
quotes some fascinating extracts from
the raipublisled diaries of the Rev.
Robert Knopvood, a gentleman with a
companionabl affection for rum who
flourished in /an Diemen’s Land from
1804 to 1838 ; and says what polite and
proper things should be said about the
towns and the scenery wherever he goes.
Mr. Emmet; grieves the present re-
viewer by not saying enough about trout,
which get only a couple of passing men-
tions quite inworthy of Tasmania’s
noblest inhabiiants. What is The Speck
for, if not to |ish in? But otherwise he
has written an jxcellent little book which,
while hardly iitended to be more than
a guide-book, s of quite unusual quality
as such and will give equal pleasure to
those who intend to visit the island or
those who hav3 already been there and
will enjoy recapturing and enlarging
their experienc es.
Tasmania Yesterday
Mr. K. R. von Stieglitz, who pro-
duces modest,, historical booklets in and
on Tasmania* full of information about
convicts, bushrangers and other such
public entertaiiiers, has found an excep-
tionally lively item in Edward Markham’s
Van Diemen’s Land Journal, which is
now, he says pf sated (by the “Telegraph,”
Launceston) for the first time from the
MSS. in the Mitchell Library.
Markham an English visitor who
inspected Van Diemen’s Land in 1833,
sailing on to' New Zealand in 1834.
An Edward Markham bought land at
Carcoar and Bathurst in 1844, but whether
or not this was the same man Mr. von
Stieglitz does not know. He seems to
have been a hard-headed, hard-drinking,
humorous, sporting, aristocratic sort of
person who might have been a fitting
companion for Maning, the pakeha-
Maori.
On the voyage out to Australia Mark-
ham’s ship struck a rock and nearly
“dashed out its brains.” Then the
Chinese cook, having been beaten-up foi
being drunk, jumped overboard, upon
which the Rural Dean of Hobart, the
Rev. Palmer, commented, “Oh, what shall
we do for a cook? He was such a good
cook, oh, i am so sorry. Ten to one
if there is anyone can cook on board
half as well.” Then the ship caught fire.
In Van Diemen’s Land Markham had
dinner with Governor Arthur and, though
he sat down to roast goose, turkey, two
ducks, boiled pork and fowls, a round
of beef, mutton and pork chops and
Cape wine, thought “the style of dinner
might have done at a tavern where 20
convicts met to celebrate their freedom.”
Apparently he was used to living well.
One Tasmanian dish he did, rather sur-
prisingly, approve of was “kangaroo
steamer,” and his recipe is here set down
for any courageous souls who might care
to try it:
The hindquarters, from the kidneys down,
are chopped up small, with pepper, salt,
onion, two or three slices of pork, cut up
small, put into an iron pot, done round
till they melt, then throw in the chopped
kangaroo and no jugged hare was ever so
savory. ; . I
He shot kangaroos, quail and possums,
rode about the countryside and inspected
whaling establishments, and dined at an
inn kept by the ex-highwayman Dick
White—“He is a bandy or broken-legged
Mulatoo, plays the violin and, in addi-
tion to his inn, is an auctioneer. Dick
White sat at the head of his table and is
a decided character and wit.” He fished
for trumpeter, learned how good they were
when cooked in boiling whale-oil, and
met a Major Macloud at Perth who
might have been much better-off but
for “an all-consuming pride of birth,”
and whose daughters, though “delicate,
fine-grown girls,” able to dance jigs and
reels, remained unmarried because they
do not take around here.” He also met
a Mr. Walkinshaw who had ingeniously
solved the housing-problem of the day
bv living in a ship:—•
Dined with Mr. Walkinshaw on board
his hulk the Kains. She was bound to
England, but got on some rocks and seveiely
damaged herself, so much so that she was
condemned. Walkinshaw had a town alio-
ment with a river frontage. dug a canal,
got her high up in a spring tide and then
filled up the canal all round her and she is
three ship’s lengths from the w ater. He
lives under the poop, makes a warehouse
of her hold and between decks. Carts
("Red Page” continued on page 42)


?*«s
i
W
mm
1
;; *
mm*
W*
n
■ *
>
iii
is
ii
,
m
g«|::
.
:•
4 ;
mm
mm i
SSRISS
;> •■; • ■■>:•
iiW
*■*>
mm
mm
m
m
iiWsßSS&lms
This could be you selecting a carpet in our
showroom. When you buy a carpet at
Anthony Horderns’, attentive salesmen
will show you our magnificent range of
Axminsters, Cord and other carpets.
They’ll advise you which patterns best suit
your rooms and furnishing schemes.
We’ll make sure you get only- the best!
Select your carpets from over 100
popular patterns for all rooms
In Axminster and Cord Carpets alone we have a selection of over 100 different patterns for every
room in your home* For generations Australians have furnished their floors with our carpets * • • carpets
that have lasted decades. You ean even buy any hy-lhc-yard carpets from Anthony Horderns’ by mail.
We send you a magnificent range of samples for bedroom, lounge, etc. You choose the one that pleases you
most. Then you inform us of the patterns and necessary measurements. We then dispatch the carpet to you.
English A 1 Axminster
Over 100 different patterns
55'6Yd.
Well over 100 different patterns in our range
of Super and Al Axminsters, Persian, Leaf,
Foliage, Chintz; and Tone'on-Tone designs.
When ordering, please specify whether for
bedroom, livipg room, etc. 27" Super Grade
priced from 74/- yd.; 27" Al from 55/6 yd.
Australian Cord Carpet
The 27" width is only 34'6 Yd.
Stippled to give a new colour in carpets!
Burgundy, fawn, green, mushroom and blue
. . . Pastel shades that hardly show dirt!
This Australian Cord Carpet’s durable -
inexpensive, too! This is its first release on
the market. It’s ideal for offices, homes,
anywhere that hard wear and good looks are
important. Plenty for ’Phone or Mail Orders.
iiiii
M
mmi l
MSm
'»-V
Mgiisi
ipgsipi
iiiililii
j—ll
*; ;■ m v-: -■■ •'*-.£;•
SSSS9S
mMm
§mmmm
- i
iipiii
&5»sS!
vV-
n
Miii
i '/ i: ■■.. 7 : - '
|li|| |ii;s .> M $ll
" .: I;'
m&xsi!
mm
ill
v y.< : '- \ .>£ ’ .. V*
•_> % % r\' .
■'..' : ■ :
' i t* A * ? s® mms m
-' ' ;■ , * <
-
MXvX
■wv-rgjxi;
iiii
4 5T " *:
•>X : - x’ '■■■ v ? :■
'
y : : :-X-
-ii
-:■■■'■'■
V ~ i
■infiHMßMHinMHMfln
You haven’t seen the Show
until you've visited our
Pavilion . . . until you’ve
seen the way we’ve treated
furniture and furnishings.
You’ll see colour, you’ll see
excitement out-of-this-world
in our Pavilion. You’ll see
sporting goods, gardening
tools, saddlery. Everything,
in fact, that makes our
Pavilion the showpiece of the
Show. i
YOUR CARPETS
DRY CLEANED,
EVEN DYED! *
This brand new service
(we’ve hardly got the wrap'
ping paper off it) will give
your carpets a new outlook
on life. We’ll dry clean
Carpets and Feltex fpr 5/-
per sq. yard. We pick up,
re-deliver free. About dyeing
. . . we’ll dye your carpet
any plain shade (thoroughly
clean it first). 15/- p*t
square yard.
Carpets, Fourth Plopr.
RENOVATE
YOUR LEATHER COAT
If you’re about to throw out
that old leather coat —Don’t!
Send it to us —Ground Floor,
George Street—and let our
experts give you an almost
new coat for a fraction of
the cost of a new one*
EXCLUSIVELY OURS!
JACK HIGH
BOWLING JACKET
The leading designers in
Casben created the “Jack
High” Bowling Jacket ex-
clusively for us! In a cream
superlaine that’s extremely
easy to launder. Full cut
across shoulder and unique
draping where sleeve joins
shoulder give you complete
sage for bowling. The zip-
per front enables you to
wear it with or without a
he, 36-44 in. chest. Limited
exclusively to Anthony Hot'
derns’, the “Jack High” is
priced at £5/13/6.
George Street Floor
Y &
THE
PRINCE OF PEACE
This enthralling story of
Christ’s life on earth is
dramatised every Thursday
evening at 9 o’clock over
Station 2CH. Begin listening
this Thursday. This is a
story the whole family will
most surely want to hear!!
StROTH IH ADVERTISING
.xithony Horderns’
*SS
CARPETS, FOURTH FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE ORDERS


Inscribe it on Asbestos...
HOT AS MARBLE BAR
By OLIVER FILTER
r\ LTHOUGH it is a fierce heat that
/-j beats down on the iron roofs,
| the poppet-legs and old dumps of
Meekatharra (W.A.), that little
Murchison goldmining town could
hardly boast that “the mercury never
drops below a hundred for six months
of the year,” which has been claimed
for it.
Obviously the temperature falls below
a hundred at evening—sometimes those
inland nights', with high clear skies and
stars like splintered ice, can turn so bitter
cold that it’s a wonder the mercury
doesn’t fall clean out of the glass.
Anvwav k there Vim; nl ace in Australia
.• y , • . -^ p , inA
which can claim temperatures over 100
degrees on every day for six months?
For anything remotely approaching
those conditions you have to go about
350 miles north of Meekatharra—follow
the Peak Hill road to the turn-off at
Belyuin Pool and then race your dust
along the Madman s _ Track through
Nullagme until, cupped m low surround-
mg hills, you come to Marble Bar.
There are those from Yannarie (further
west and south of Onslow), where the
heat sits on your shoulders like a curse
and fine red dust hangs in the air like a
mood of irritation, and there are those
from Ivanhoe (N.S.W.) who will readily
dispute Marble Bar’s claim to the heat-
record, but the Commonwealth Year
Book describes the Nullagine-Marble Bar
country as “the hottest area of the con-
tinent,” where “the maximum shade
temperatures during summer sometimes
exceed 100 degrees continuously for days
and weeks.”
Such a conservative authority cannot
be blamed for understatement, but during
the last summer I spent at Marble Bar,
a few years ago, our thermometer regis-
tered over 100 degrees every day for
well over 100 days. Generally it sat
around 115 and more, and on the hottest
p ai * remember it nudged 123
degrees And, although the locals are
helmed to shrug-off such temperatures
with references to legendary summers of
40-dO years ago, that is really hot.
The eat almost clangs off the iron-
stone hills; glassy, trickling hazes distort
h landscap “ . kangaroos shelter, pant-
ing> in of | rees and rock ’ s . P and
black smoke from an occasional spinifex
fj re rises lazily up to a couple of thou-
sand feet, where, under some atmospheric
condition produced by the heat, it spreads
out like a level black ceiling,
The town itself consists, inevitably, of
a police-station, a post-office and a pub
(the Ironclad; it was either named after
a mine or a mine was named after it),
There are also a hospital, a store—per-
haps two—-and a scatter of houses. There
is, or was, a picture-show—an open-air
screen, some benches of planks on logs
and a rough fence consisting mainly of
44-gallon drums. There is gold in the
surrounding country, and sheep live off
what the kangaroos can spare,
To the north, a hundred miles or more,
are Port Hedland and the sea ; a few miles
west are the Coongan river and, set in
steeply-sloping green hills, Chinaman’s
Pool, with its bar of multicolored jasper
from which the town took its name.
A first-impression of the Nullagine-
Marble Bar country could be that it died
a million years ago. Nothing could
survive the heat except, of course, the
adaptable human animal. The hills have
been eroded by time to jagged stumps or
heaps of hot boulders; the green-brown
carpet of spinifex covers the earth,
broken only here and there by ironstone
pimples and an occasional thread of
green where a few trees reach deeply
into the dry watercourses for moisture.
And all the time the heat bears down on
the land, pressing and pushing it further
back into time.
That, of course, is the first, or passing,
impression—through the windscreen, if
you like. Stay long enough to correct
it and the most surprising thing is the
amount of life —sheepmen, prospectors
and abos excepted—that creeps and
crawls and jumps and flies among the
spinifex. Walk a few miles through that
brittle, spiky grass, which itself seems
devoid of life, and you’ll suddenly see
the desert pea, as unbelievably crimson
and as unexpected as blood on the hard,
brown earth.
Kangaroos? Local sheepmen estimate
that the country carries three ’roos to
every sheep. In the heat they lie in tree-
shaded sand on the shady side of the hills,
dozing or idly flicking and scratching at
insects ; in the evenings they start away
in their hundreds, coming like an army
in great clouds of dust down to water.
During the war the R.A.A.F. built an
airstrip at Corunna Downs, a few miles
south of Marble Bar, and as the roar of
fat-bellied Liberators fighting for height
made the ground tremble the Toos would
start away from their shelter in terror,
hop this way and that in long, flat leaps
and then crouch, trembling, in the
spinifex. Likewise the crows would drop
from the dead trees and fly almost at
ground-level as the Libs thundered over
them on the way to Jap-held islands a
thousand miles to the north.
Corunna Downs is the only country I
know of where you can be almost certain
of catching a death-adder after burning
a few clumps of spinifex. They are
brown, fat, sluggish little brutes, and will
stand a remarkable amount of pushing
and prodding with a stick before they
suddenly strike; their fast, twisting strike
is usually precede by a curious flattening
and lateral distention of their bodies.
At one time or another at Corunna
they were caught and killed in tents, in
boxes of clothes and under beds; one
even slid from a clump of spinifex and
under a Bren-gun within inches of the
hand of the man who was firing it.
A lesser nuisance is the fat, golden-
brown centipedes; a light in a tent at
night after rain will bring them almost
like fowls at feeding-time. They are
comparatively harmless, their bite being
less painful than a bee-sting. With them,
sometimes, comes the odd scorpion, 'tail
and claws held high and scuttling at an
incredible speed for such a comically
awkward pose. Should you bag yourself
a wild turkey for tucker you’ll probably
find, when you gut him, a mass of centi-
pedes as large and as firm as a tennis-ball
in his crop.
There is another indication of the
amount of life in the spinifex when a
fire starts through it —the hawks appear
from nowhere in their dozens, swooping
and diving on the ground-life as it moves
ahead of file red flames and black smoke.
The same birds, incidentally, can dive
fast enough to catch lizards as they bask
on the rocks, although those very lizards
can move swiftly enough to dodge a
thrown stone.
There are cockatoos, of course; thou-
sands and thousands of them. They are
best seen around the tanks or troughs,
ducking and bobbing as they drink, while
a couple of lookouts in near-by trees
watch your approach with beady black
eyes—one squawk for “Be ready,” and,
as you get closer, two squawks for “Take
off,” and they rise like a cloud, noisily
telling the world about the injustice.
Ducks? Try the Coongan Gorge,
where the sandy river-bed passes through
sheer walls of ironstone and the water
lies in quiet pools and lagoons under
gums and paperbarks. Stretch out on
the sand in the shade for a while and,
after watching the gem-like reds and
greens of dragonflies as they hover and
dart over the pools, you might, with a
vague sense of being observed, look up
to see an emu and a couple of skirted
chicks staring at you with speculative
immobility. Make one move and a warn-
ing note from the opposite direction
sends the family legging for cover—
another emu, apparently the old man, has
also been observing you from another
vantage-point, ready to warn his family.
Walk along the gorge a bit, dragging
your feet in the coarse, deep, hot sand
and sweating a§ the heat slides on to you
from the hot rock outcrops above. Note
the dingo-tracks and a couple of wild
donkeys staring solemnly at you from a
safe distance ; see the two ’roos moving
quietly out of your way, and then try
to count the ducks and shags on that long
lagoon under the trees. It is black with
them, and they are so wild that they
are almost tame.
Into one such crowded lagoon I once
emptied a Tommy-gun—not according to
Hoyle, I admit, but it was Christmas, and
we wanted ducks. As the slugs hit, the
water erupted into a confusion of splash
and spray and beating wings.
Seconds later, incredibly, not a bird
remained. Then, when the last ripple
had died, and there was nothing but hot
silence, a goanna’s head suddenly emerged
like a periscope in the middle of the
lagoon. Apparently he had been swim-
ming, or lying on the bank, when I fired,
and had dived for cover to the bottom
of the lagoon. He remained in the
middle of the water for a minute or more,
turning his head this way and that to
survey all points of the compass until
satisfied that the hurricane had passed.
Then he swam ashore, crawled up the
bank, sighed and went to sleep in the
sun.
Sleeping in the sun might be a pleasant
pastime for goannas at Marble Bar and
thereabouts, but it’s not advisable for
humans. You can do two things about
the heat: either sit or lie down and
moan about it, in which case it gets pro-
gressively worse, or lead as active a life
as possible, in which case it gets pro-
gressively better. I’ve tramped a dozen
miles, played football, cricket and volley-
ball (with heavy medicine-balls) in tem-
peratures around 115 degrees and never
felt fitter in my life. Colds, chest- and
throat-ailments and sinus troubles seem
to be roasted out of you in that hot, dry
climate.
It’s not always hot, of course. The
winters are pleasantly mild (by Marble
Bar standards) and the nights cool. And,
during the codkeye season, there are days
when the heat becomes unduly and
unusually oppressive and a thin line of
bilious yellow-grey appears on the
“Paddy Lenny’s Brumbies”
by
Henry G. Lamond
An extraordinarily vivid record
of a most extraordinary Queens-
land character.
One of next week’s special
article features
•
“Open Sights”
by ’’Macnell”
(J. E. Macdonnell)
The kangaroo-shooter who dis-
agreed with the Navy’s radar-
controlled gunnery.
Among next week’s “Bulletin”
short stories
horizon and builds up at an alarming
rate into an onrushing cloud of dust, h
hits as a mass of whipping, stinging sand,
and reduces visibility to a few yards,
any loose property left lying around,
from sheets of iron and tents to clothing,
is whipped away into the murk with such
speed and force that it probably finishes
up at Kalgoorlie or points further south.
Then the rain comes in large, heavy
drops before the dust is gone, and keeps
falling for an hour or so afterwards.
When it clears the air is calm and tresn
and cool, and the clouds retreat to the
horizon in a great, sculpted mass ot
cream and rose, with vast grey-blue
caverns in it.
But tomorrow it will probably be hot
again.
The Film-publicity Dope-sheet Writer Sends
Out His Wedding Invitations
““7* HE culmination of a great,
S thrilling and sensational
V j romance which has excited the
minds, hearts and imagina-
tions of her countless friends will
have its astounding premiere at St.
Harry’s on Saturday, April 18, at the
matinee session, when the sultry,
curvaceous, feminine H-botnb Mavis
Moggs will appear for the first time
in her role of a starry-eyed bride.
Mavis is simply terrific! Can you
afford to miss this priceless oppor-
tunity of seeing your favorite pacing
down the carpeted aisle, her glorious
eyes demurely downcast, the veil
drawn dramatically over her piquant
face—the face that is destined to send
her waiting lover into a very trans-
port of unparalleled ecstasy? *
Reserve your sea’ls now for a
spectacle that will be mighty in its
emotional impact, colossal in its por-
trayal of the matchless love of a
simple, unspoiled girl for a man for
the possession of whom she would
fiercely defy the whole world,
stupendous in the stark drama of a
woman about to grasp happiness in
one glorious, never-to-be-forgotten
moment and have her man to her-
self. Thrill to that electrifying
moment when the hero slips on her
dainty finger the thin band of gold,
symbol of a deathless love!
Every fibre of your being will tur-
bulently respond as the gorgeous
heroine of the day, with one superb
gesture of final surrender, upsweeps
the veil at the completion of the
ceremony and lifts her lovely, inviting
lips for the burning kisses of the
only man in her life!
The dressing will be magnificently
lavish, on a scale hitherto never
attempted. Styled in a fashion that
might well arouse the envy of some
fabulous Eastern princess, the bride’s
gown will be moulded to her figure
so as to give intoxicating emphasis
to her pantherlike sinuousness.
You will be enraptured, too, at the
gorgeous splendor of the brides-
maids’ sartorial embellishments, and
their massed beauty as they move
with proud, stately steps to prepare
you for the sensational entry of the
bride will have you gripping your
pew-sides with the sheer wonder of it.
Decor, sets and mounting in the
church will all be invested with a
glowing richness and splendor, and
it will be all in color! Rev. Wilfred
Blessing has been cast in the vital role
of the celebrant, and he can confi-
dently be expected to give a superb
performance of a role that is tailor-
made for him. A surge of emotion
will sweep over you as he comes to
the most gripping moment in the
presentation and dramatically utters
the words “Will you, Mavis, take this
man,” etc.
The wedding-breakfast scene will
be so immense, so Gargantuan it will
make the Bacchanalian scene from
“Quo Vadis” look like'the weak-tea-
and-bun aftermath of a meeting of
the sewing-circle of St. Swithin’s.
By booking now for this leviathan
show, this pulsating, moving drama
of a man and a woman standing fac-
ing the unknown, about to take an
irrevocable step from which there is
no returning, conscious only of the
overwhelming power of their undy-
ing devotion to each other, you will
feel that in a small way you, too, are
an actor in a drama the denouement
of which will be—what? Perhaps a
love-life that the scented Cleopatra
with her peacocks could never know,
that proud Helen of Troy would have
gone on bended knees to possess,
greater than that which the beautiful
Queen of Sheba shared with the
mighty Solomon,
Drama, spectacle, romance, even
a touch of slapstick—for don’t forget
that the bride’s father will be there to
give her away. And all in the breath-
taking beauty of natural color. These
will be followed by the Lucullan
feast, and then, before the final fade-
out, the wondrous thrill of a kiss
from the curving Cupid’s-bow of the
luscious bride herself. ‘ Make certain
you don’t miss this necessarily limited
season of unexampled entertainment
by indicating by R.S.V.P. the seats
you wish to reserve. There will be
tremendous crowds to witness this
enthralling drama. Don’t risk
missing it!
Credits for this super-show are:
Bride, 100 p.c.; bridegroom, 95 p.c.;
bridesmaids, 80 p.c.; parson, 5 p.c.;
make-up, 105 p.c.; publicity, 100
p.c.; bride’s parents, 1 p.c.; brewery,
100 p.c.; flowers, 50 p.c.; direction,
60 p.c.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April l f 1953
Vol. 74—No, 3816
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Banach Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings {opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
QUEEN MARY PASSES
Having been part of the Royal life of the British
Empire and Commonwealth for more than 60 years.
Queen Mary died at the end of an historical era the
like of which the world has not had to show in times
past.
She lived longer than any other British Queen
in history—Bs years. She saw the dim gaslight age
of Victoria merge into the neon age of Elizabeth 11.
She saw horse-transport become only a memory, and
first motor-travel and then air-travel firmly estab-
lished. She saw the last remnants of the ancient
v European world, so stable for half-a-dozen centuries,
disappear; saw India begin its life as an Empire and
cease to be one, the colonies change into self-govern-
ing Dominions, She made the long voyage to Australia
to be present at the inauguration of our Common-
wealth, and was one of the last two survivors among
those who took a Constitutional part in the ceremony
—King O’Malley, approaching his century, alone
remains now she is dead. She was contemporary with
the great literary and political figures who faded out
with the passing 'of the nineteenth century, had talked
with Tennyson and knew Gladstone well.
She went through two wars of unexampled magni-
tude, and for nearly 60 years she exercised Royal
functions of some sort in every crisis of national life.
Wherever there was or tragedy, there she would
be, calm, practically sympathetic and reassuring,
bringing out the best in those with whom she had
contact, and herself showing a force of character which
could not but help to influence whatever situation she
was involved in.
As part of the national life she was at the end
perhaps the most widely known and popular of English
figures, the most generally accepted. Austere, domesti-
cated and accomplished, she stood for everything that
the English like to think themselves; she was, in fact,
though born in the old Royal Palace of Kensington
and in the same room as Queen Victoria, from the
kingdom of the old song—Swabia, “With all its stout
and hearty men and the nut-brown maidens there.”
There was, however, no doubt about her English-
ness, of which she established her own model, based on
an exacting standard of domesticity and a wide range
of womanly accomplishments. She was a fine linguist,
a capable housewife who managed the greatest house-
hold of Europe with a businesslike method and some-
times an iron hand. Her stately figure lent dignity to
every great national ceremony of her time ; but her
regal aloofness was tempered by a kindly tolerance of
change in the direction of moral thought and of the
new informalities towards which some of the genera-
tion to which she belonged found it hard to bend their
natures. Yet, for all that, she provided a healthy
brake upon change in her own sphere, and her presence
at the head of Royal circles assured that social revolu-
tions in the vicinity of the Throne were made with
care and thought and with dignity. The country owed
more than most knew to her management, behind the
scenes, of the events which produced the smooth
abdication of her son Edward VIII.
Above all, however, her greatness probably lay in
the dignity of the personal self-sacrifice with which
she subordinated her whole private life to the needs
of the country. She lost her betrothed husband, the
Duke of Clarence, suddenly only a month before the
planned date for their wedding. Two years afterwards
she married Prince George, the new heir to the Throne,
and lived with him a completely happy domestic life
for over 40 years. She lost one son almost in his
infancy, saw another lose his Throne under the most
distressing circumstances, another killed in an aircraft
crash during World War 11, and yet another die upon
the Throne all too young, when he was firmly
established in popular affection. She thus was
the wife of one monarch and the mother of
two, but she was denied hqr ardent wish to see a
granddaughter crowned in the flush of her youth at
the opening of the new era of recovery and prosperity
which the British Commonwealth now seems destined
to enjoy within the next generation—if the world
remains at peace.
England has generally been happy in its Queens,
but never happier in one than in Queen Mary. The
significance of her role in history was the greater in
that she came to the Throne with her husband at a
moment when the position of women in the State was
the greatest current political issue. Her reign saw the
granting of votes for women in England, and the
gradual complete emancipation of her sex, and conse-
quently the greatest social revolution in both public
and home life in all the ages. In making smooth the
CALLING ALL MOSLEMS!
transition from old to new conventions her great
influence was applied with commonsense, understand-
ing of human nature and public opinion.
She lent grace and dignity to womanhood in her
period and stood for everything that the human race
respects in family life.
Fun and Games
In the Golden Age of Greece, although there was
often bitter rivalry over the control of the Olympic
Games, the question of the site of the contests seems
never to have become a matter of controversy; they
were held at Olympia, and there was no argument
about it. For that reason, when German archaeologists
decided in 1875 to excavate the ancient ruins, they had
no difficulty in locating the spot. They merely went
to the traditional site on the north bank of the River
Alpheus, about 11 miles from Pyrgos, and began dig-
ging. Archaeologists of 2875, digging among the
newspaper-files of the present-day in search of the site
of the 13th modern Olympic Games, will not find their
task quite so simple.
In the first place they will have to discover which
city actually had the honor of staging the games, and,
instead of being confined in their search to a small
part of Greece, they will find considerable difficulty
even in determining which continent put on the show.
At first their job will seem straightforward enough,
with Melbourne as the only starter ; but as they thumb
the pages of the yellowing files doubts will arise as to
whether Rome, Mexico City, Los Angeles or Tokyo
was not really the centre of the world’s athletic frenzy
in 1956. Assuming that they are able to clear up this
point—possibly by stumbling upon a report of a meet-
ing of the International Olympic Council, with a
Mexico City dateline round about April 17, 1953 —
their troubles will be by no means at an end.
They will know that the honor was granted to
Melbourne, but one of their number will probably
point out that Melbourne “in those days” was a rather
large city. Further research will therefore be necessary.
This will lead them to an early conclusion that Royal
Park Showground was the venue of the games, and
they will doubtless nod their heads approvingly at the
appropriateness of the name. They will be quite
wrong, of course, as they will find out if they pursue
their investigations further. Their next discovery will
be that the Melbourne Cricket Ground was the site,
but just as they are beginning to rejoice that the search
is at an end further doubts will arise. They will come
acoss names of long-forgotten athletes —Cain, Barry,
Menzies, Calwell, Coles, McDonald and Evatt —and
suggestions that Carlton Oval is really the place they
are looking for. At this stage there may be a little
delay while philologists are called in to decide whether
or not the word “oval” is a mistranslation for
“brewery,” but after that point has been settled the
research team will come across a picture of the winning
design for the Olympic Stadium at Carlton.
Satisfied with this conclusive evidence they will
make preparations to dig in earnest, but just as their
plans are almost complete one of their more inquisitive
members will turn over a few more pages, come across
those ancient athletes Calwell, Cain and the rest again,
and shout out “Look! They’re switching it back to
the Melbourne Cricket Ground again.” And on closer
inspection his colleagues will be forced to admit that
he is quite right. Off they’ll go with their spades to
the Melbourne Cricket Ground, speculating idly
en route as to what became of the projected Carlton
Stadium.
Having laid bare to the world the secrets of the
M.C.G., our archaeological posterity will next turn
their attention to the Olympic Village. Here again
they will have cause to envy the men who dug-up the
ruins of the first Olympia. In classical times there was
no argument over housing the athletes. All would-be
competitors were tested at Elis, being put through
their paces in the gymnasium there ; many of them
trained at Elis for 10 months before the contests. II
any dispute ever arose over their sleeping-quarters or
payment for the erection of their shower-rooms, no
record of it has been preserved. It is not so in
Melbourne.
The researchers will find that deciding the spot for
the village caused the organisers of the 13th modern
Olympiad just as many headaches and heartaches as
the quest for a ground, and that the question of who
was going to pay for it caused far more. They will
probably come to the conclusion that a sprinter named
Cain was the leader of this group, and that his attitude
was determined largely by the fact that he had defeated
another athlete, McDonald, a short time previously,
and that this McDonald had been in favor of the
Heidelberg plan. They will find it hard to understand
on what grounds Cain tried to saddle a Canberra
athlete, Menzies, with the cost, and when they come
across the news-sheets telling how one of Cain’s
lieutenants, Barry, opposed the Heidelberg scheme and
put forward his own plan for a village of flats at
North Carlton, they may have an uneasy feeling that
perhaps the games went to Carlton after all, and that
the ruins they uncovered at the M.C.G. were merely
put there to confuse them.
The suggestion by hurdler Calwell and others
that the Albert Park barracks would make an excellent
village may be approved as being in keeping with the
ancient idea of a “sacred truce” during the games, but
if wars, cold or hot, are still fashionable in 2875 the
archaeologists will probably agree that the service
chiefs were quite right in more-or-less telling Calwell
and Co. to jump in the Albert Park lagoon.
There will no doubt be much conjecture over the
reasons for long-distance-runner Coles’s shuttling back
and forth between Melbourne and Canberra and for
the series of “Here-I-come-no-I-don’t” cables reported
as being received from U.S. swimmer Brundage, but
in the end a satisfactory, if not altogether correct,
explanation will no doubt be agreed upon.
But archaeology has its limitations, and the
researchers will have to fall back upon the students
of political history to find out what lay behind the
agreement whereby athlete Menzies agreed to finance
the village scheme by an interest-free loan repayable
after the games were over. The historians will tell
them that the arrangement was the perfect face-saver
and quite in accordance with the politics of the day.
It enabled athlete Cain to avoid the charge that he was
placing sport above the interests of the worker, and it
prevented Cain, Calwell and Evatt from telling the
electors that athlete Menzies had sabotaged the games.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Socialisation and
Confiscation
Federal Parliament adjourned last week,
probably till August, and the Senate cam-
paign will in the meantime decide the
fate of the present Parliament.
Mr. Menzies will open the campaign
for the Liberals on April 14, but
before that the issues will probably have
been fully set by “Labor.” They will
include the usual catalogue of promised
miseries which have been a feature of
“Labor” campaigning ever since it
suffered defeat in 1949: promises that if
the Menzies Government is not got rid
of at once a new depression will be here,
promises—if it is got rid Of —of lower
prices and higher wages and “free” social
benefits for all, together with lower taxa-
tion and other impossibilities if only Dr.
Evatt can get his hands on the reins of
office.
. In plain fact, as always, when “Labor”
fights for office there is only one issue —
socialisation through the class-war,
through higher discriminatory taxation
and the extension of the civil services and
bureaucracies. That socialisation is the
only objective which appears in “Labor’s”
platform, and that all attempts during
the 30 years it has been there to water
it down either by amendment of the
wording or qualification through defini-
tion of what it means, have failed, is a
fact which the Liberals should allow no
voter to forget.
Time and again “Labor” conferences
have issued orders for the preparation of
a book explaining what the socialisation
, objective of the party means; but the
book is never published, because when
the detail is set down in print it is almost
impossible to distinguish the Russian
Socialist Plan from the Australian
Socialist Plan, That an ex-Minister,
Senator Cameron, in Victoria, is advocat-
ing the capital-levy for public works and
higher taxes on industry, with the removal
of indirect taxation (which is basically
protective duties against foreign competi-
tion) should prove an index for any think-
ing man to the measures for undermining
private enterprise which influential sec-
tions of the A.L.P. have in mind.
“Capital-levy” means confiscation, and
as a means for overriding the Constitu-
tional brakes on nationalisation it has the
most dangerous possibilities. It would
be quite feasible to destroy the trading
banks, for instance, by crushing them
with taxation and levies.
Betrayed Trust
Despite protests, the Cahill Government
of New South Wales went right ahead
with its appointment of one of its defeated
members, F. J, Finnan, as chairman of
the Hunter District Water Board without
any attempt to look around for a man
with better qualifications. Apparently
the Government’s line of reasoning was
that there was a job vacant, that Finnan
was out of a job, and there was no point
in looking any further.
In these matters “Labor” is quite
cynical. It will be three years to the
next election, and it is assumed that by
that time the short memories of the
electors will have forgotten. On past
records they are probably right, and for
that reason portion of a sermon preached
by the Dean of Newcastle (the Very Rev.
W. A. Hardie) should be placed on
record. The Dean was giving a lecture-
sermon on the Coronation ceremonies,
and he referred to the sacred trust con-
ferred on Ministers of the Crown and
of . their moral obligation to use their
power in the best interests of the people
as a whole and not for private or sec-
tional advantage. Of the Finnan appoint-
ment he said;
No one can doubt that the lowest
political motives lie behind this appoint-
ment. It is obvious to all that the Premier
(Mr. Cahill) and his Government regard
their powers in such matters not as a trust
conferred on them, but as a means of
exploiting the field of public service for
the aggrandisement of a political party.
Corruption in politics is not always a matter
of bribery or other illegality. It can quite
well happen within the bounds- of the law
when the prerogatives of Government are
used, as they have been here, for the
enrichment of private persons at the
expense of the best interests of the com-
munity.... The Government has no doubt
acted within the law in making this appoint-
ment, yet it has grossly betrayed the trust
conferred upon it.
When Premier Cahill’s attention was
drawn to the address he dismissed if with
a comment to the effect that the Dean
had obviously allied himself with
“Labor’s” political opponents. Two days
later it was announced that Cahill’s
former Minister for Conservation, Mr.
G. Weir, had been elevated to the bench
of the Industrial Commission at a salary
of £4500 a year.
Public Accounts
A little-noticed but important reform
instituted by the Menzies Government has
been the restoration of the Public
Accounts Committee, which reports on
Commonwealth finances from time to
time.
The recent meetings, held under the
chairmanship of Professor-Armand Bland,
M.H.R.,- an acknowledged authority on
public administration, have borne good
fruit in bringing to light the careless
abandon with which money can be spent
by departments without Parliamentary
authority.
Specifically directed to cover investiga-
tions into the scope of operations under
section 37 of the Audit Act, which allows
departments to transfer unneeded
amounts specifically appropriated by
Parliament to meet expenditure on
“related items,” the committee’s two
reports have been rightly critical of the
startling fact that in the year ended June,
1952, the Commonwealth departments
spent £9,300,000 in excess of Budget
authorisations without permission of Par-
liament ; that in 1951-52 they had trans-
ferred £5,270,000 to cover deficits in
salaries and allowances and other expenses
in branches for which the money was
not voted. The Post Office was respon-
sible for £2,540,000 of this ; the Defence
Departments (for which there might be
some slight excuse) for £1,628,000 and
other departments for the remaining
million-odd.
The committee remarks that the Trea-
sury had acknowledged that the transfers
did not represent appropriate usage of
the powers of section 37 of the Audit
Act. The disregard of the principles of
Parliamentary responsibility involved is
the more marked because Parliament is
not told as soon as possible when this
sort of excess eventuates, but is left to
find out from the Auditor-General’s
report months or years afterwards.
The Menzies Government is, of course,
not the only one guilty of this kind of
thing. It has long been standard practice
with both Federal and State Govern-
ments, and the fact that Parliament is
so negligent in its duty to control finance
that it has allowed this to happen is no
palliation. It is something which goes
with the modern practice of rushing
Estimates through without effective de-
bate ; without, in fact, members having
a chance to know what is in them.
It would be a great step towards
economy if the Public Accounts Com-
mittee were reconstituted and both its
membership and powers widened so that
it would become necessary for all extra-
parliamentary appropriations and trans-
fers of funds to have its prior sanction,
for Estimates to be reported on by it as
a preliminary to debate in committee of
the whole, and for it to have a general
power of veto or reference to Parliament
whenever it feels action called for. The
Public Works Committee already has veto
powers, so that there is a precedent.
False Prophets Confounded
Amended and probably final figures for
the 1952 wheat harvest give a total yield
of 193 million bushels, 30 million bushels
more than the December estimate. Which
makes a Commonwealth average acre-
yield of 19.1 bushels—easily a record —
from the 10.1 million acres sown, and
which should prompt wheatgrowers to
grab their belts and go in search of their
leaders.
At the beginning of 1952 the Prime
Minister appealed to the nation for a
united effort to lift production so the
country could tide over the inevitable re-
bound from the boom-peak of 1951. In
March, just before sowing-time, he made
a specific appeal to wheatgrowers, asking
for another million acres and saying that
it would be worth 30 million dollars and
would increase sterling-area funds by
£l4 million.
For this he was bitterly assailed by
wheatgrowers’ “spokesmen,” the more
vociferous being H. K. Nock (Farmers
and Settlers), T. C. Stott (Wheatgrowers’
Federation), W. W. Pratt (Wheatgrowers’
Union), C. H. Hunter and J. Gorman
(Vic. Wheat- and Woolgrowers’ Assoc.).
All that Mr. Menzies had asked was
another 20-odd acres of wheat from each
of the 45,000 registered wheatgrowers.
He was accused of fraud, jeered and
sneered at, and “spokesmen” openly
or inferentially urged the growers not to
be fools and to cut down rather than in-
crease acreage.
The result is that only 10 million acres
—the smallest peace-time area since 1923
—was sown in the most bountiful wheat
season this .country has ever known.
There is a poetic justice in that Nature
responded to the Prime Minister’s appeal
and actually gave him more wheat than
he would have got with another million
acres in a normal season.
But the real point for every grower
who listened to the narks is that he has
lost money. With few exceptions —if
any —every grow'er who sowed normal
acreage last year, or increased his sowing,
found himself reaping anything from a
bag to five bags an acre which cost him
nothing to grow. And that wheat comes
on to a market which, despite the dither-
ing about a new International Wheat
Agreement, is strong and likely to main-
tain last season’s prices at the least.
It could easily be that such a splendid
wheat season as that which gave us the
new record average of 19 bushels an acre
will not be repeated in many a grower’s
lifetime. Such a year is certainly the
exception rather than the rule. That
being so, the industry has nothing for
which to thank its leaders.
Cabinetmaking
Although there is no direct evidence, it
seems likely that the Amalgamated
Cabinet Ministers’ Union has been at
work on South Australian Premier Play-
ford ; he’s going to increase the size of
his team. For years it has been one of
the wonders of Australian politics how
the South Australian Ministry has man-
aged to get through the work of govern-
ment with six members, while Cabinets in
other States have grown bigger and
bigger. Alternatively, how other State
Ministries have been able to justify their
swollen numbers when South Australia
has been able to get along with six
Ministers.
The Federal Cabinet, of course, tops
the list, with 20 around the table. Next
comes the New South Wales family, with
15 at the latest count, though the number
has recently been 16. The McDonald
Government ran Victoria with a team of
13 ; Cain has increased this to 14. This
may be due to superstition on the part
of the “Labor” Premier, but the more
likely explanation is that McDonald
didn’t have enough men to go round. In
Queensland, Gair’s Cabinet consists of
11, unchanged since the recent election,
and in Perth the new “Labor” Premier
Hawke commands a crew of 10, as did
his predecessor McLarty. Only in Tas-
mania is there anything approaching the
compactness of the Adelaide Cabinet, but
the likeness is more apparent than real.
Cosgrove has a Ministry of six, but tacked
on to it are three honorary Ministers who
accept the responsibility for four depart-
ments.
In the South Australian Cabinet no
Minister has fewer than two portfolios.
Playford himself, in addition to the
Premiership, looks after the Treasury,
Immigration, Industry and Employment.
His Minister for Works also controls
Railways, Marine and Local Government.
South Australian Ministers must cast
occasional glances of envy in the direc-
tion of Sydney, where, for example.
Health and Lands each boast a full-time
Minister; where there is a Minister for
Justice as well as an Attorney-General,
and where, although there are three
Ministers in charge of Agriculture and
Food Production, Lands and Works, it
is still found necessary to have a full-
time Minister for Conservation. In addi-
tion to these, New South Wales also runs
to a Minister without portfolio and an
Assistant Minister in the Legislative
Council.
After making a comparison between
the duties of their own Ministers and
those of Cabinets in other States, South
Australians can hardly object to Play-
ford’s move to enlarge his team. The
only catch is that his fellow-Premiers
may take his action as a justification for
handing out Cabinet rank and salaries on
a scale even more lavish than before.
A Hong Kong Jubilee
During the month past the “South China
Morning Post” celebrated its fiftieth anni-
versary. Half a century is not long in
the life of a Western newspaper in a
secure European, Australian or American
country. For an English paper to sur-
vive that long on the fringe of China is
a feat to be noted. And the “Post”
has not only survived ; it has grown to
be an institution like a rock which has
gathered soil and vigorous life with the
progress of human occupation.
The paper’s life began while the Old
China still existed with the Empress
Dowager in power. It has weathered the
period of the 1911 revolution, of the
unsettled post-war decades of the Japanese
invasions of China culminating in the
war and bondage of 1941-45, which
meant incarceration in “Stanley” to so
many associated with its daily life. Now
that the blinds have been drawn down
along Hong Kong’s frontiers and China
is behind the Iron Curtain it still
flourishes, is still the main voice of free
expression in Southern China, even
though all its approaches live under con-
ditions of siege.
All the other great journals which
flourished in the Far East when it was
born —the “Japan Times” and “Japan
Advertiser,” the Peking “Times,” the
journals of Shanghai, the Tientsin
“Times” —have fallen. China itself is
closed to the celebrated reporters who
once interpreted it to the world, but the
“Post” lives on in its very modem build-
ing on the face of Hong Kong Island,
which looks toward mainland Asia, as
stable and fearless as if it were pub-
lished in Birmingham or Melbourne. It
has grown in its half-century of life
commensurately with the growth of
Hong Kong’s population, which has
magnified about sevenfold to 2,000,000
since its opening issue. Remote from the
direct influence of the more fevered types
of modern journalism, its local coverage
of news is wide, its reporting copious
and careful, and its leading articles and
summaries of opinion meaty and forceful.
It has drawn on the Australian Press
for members of its staff since its be-
ginnings—two of its pioneers were Will
Donald and Stanley/- Kingsbury, the
latter becoming associate-editor of the
“Christian Science Monitor” in Boston
and of the Melbourne “Herald,” and later
editor of the Australian “Newspaper
News.” Its present managing-director,
Mr. Fred Franklin, is almost as familiar
with Australia as with his own stamping-
ground, and works assiduously to cement
relationships between Hong Kong and
this country, now brought so closely to-
gether by the institution of the weekly
Qantas Air Service through Labuan.
Dividend on Dishonesty
“D.J.K.”: “Labor” is back in Queens-
land. For the first time in 20 years
“Labor,” besides winning a majority of
seats, got a majority of votes. There was
no call for “Labor” to rely on the instru-
ment of gerrymander to win seats, nor
did some person or persons unknown
have any call on fraudulent practice to
assist “Labor.” Yes, it was a “Labor”
victory; but thereby hangs a tale.
Premier Gair didn’t bother to deliver
a policy-speech setting out “Labor’s” pro-
posals for the next three years. He had
to wait to get his orders until the
“Labor” in Politics Convention was
held for the purpose. Premier Gair
contented himself with a dreary recital
of “Labor’s” record, and blamed his own
Government’s glaring shortcomings on
the Federal Government. From Towns-
ville to “The Gabba” the Queensland
Socialist leader lashed out at the Menzies-
Fadden Government. He accused it of
cutting loan funds and of pruning tax-
reimbursements to Queensland. The
Federal health scheme, in his view, was
created to smash the so-called Queens-
land Free Health Service. He claimed
developmental projects were held up on
the personal instructions of Sir Arthur
Fadden.
Premier Gair delayed the introduction
of the Federal Government’s free-milk
scheme until the last week of the cam-
paign, thereby cashing-in on the credit
for it. His Transport Minister Duggan
made sure there was a new diesel air-
conditioned train ready to track over
Queensland for five weeks before polling-
day. Health Minister Moore opened a
new dental hospital and nurses’ quarters
on the same day—six days before the
electors had their say.
“Labor” candidates worked themselves
into a frenzy in giving depression warn-
ings. “Little kids cried in the streets for
food during the Moore Government in
1929,” asserted one successful Socialist
candidate. The “Capitalist Press” was
full of expensive “Labor” advertisements.
Not satisfying themselves with outmatch-
ing the Tories on a ten-to-one basis for
advertising space, the Socialists used
cheap, offensive material which distin-
guished itself by its inexactitude.
Yes, the Socialists told a great story,
and the majority of Queenslanders fell for
it. Why? Some may say ineffective cam-
paigning by the Liberal and Country par-
ties ; their poor public relations and lack
of funds. In some measure the reason
may be here. However, the vanguard of
the Socialist attack moved against the
Federal Government, and as it was suc-
cessful it is quite clear that the power
of Australians to discern political right
(Continued on next page)


from wrong has atrophied to a frighten-
ing degree.
When the present Federal Government
took office the Chifley Golden Age wasn’t
recognisable under the tarnish. Inflation
raged, production of vital goods was at
an all-time low, an employee could tell
his employer to “pull his head in” and
get away with it, national defence was
based on powder-puff lines, and relations
with foreign countries were strained and
ragged.
With bold and unquestionably un-
popular actions the Menzies-Fadden
Government tackled the mess. The infla-
tion spiral has been stopped, production
has increased, Australians have developed
a fresh responsibility to their jobs, defence
problems are approached realistically and
Australia’s foreign policy is winning
friends. Slowly and yet perceptibly the
Australian nation is finding new strength.
But the Gairs, Cahills and Cains, set
on having political power rather than
national recovery, worked assiduously on
the “more-pay-less-work” psychology
founded during the Socialist period.
Welding to this a supreme contempt for
political fact, they carried the day—abuse
and lies swayed the masses.
In Queensland the Gairs met with
flattering success. Yes, the “mob” is
back with increased numbers. They
aren’t concerned with Queensland, its
future, morality or posterity. They
will just plug along, searching with in-
grained resolution for another Golden
Age.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Parliament has put up the
shutters—the Reps until about August;
the Senate, as at present represented, for
keeps. When the Upper House next
meets there will be several new faces in
it; how many will be dedded on May 9.
e •
N. S. Wales is to have a quite un-
necessary by-election for the Dulwich
Hill seat in the Assembly, although only
six weeks have elapsed since the general
election. For weeks before polling-day
the dogs were barking that George Weir
was to be appointed to the Industrial
Commission. Of course, the dogs may
not have really known anything, but if
that is so they’ve turned out to be pretty
good guessers. Weir may be slightly
clairvoyant himself ; he did not stand for
re-election to his old place in Cabinet
after the big victory.
e •
It looks as if Cahill and Co. intend
the party nomination for Dulwich Hill to
go to C. Mallam, a sort of mystery man
who has been discovered working as
“unpaid adviser” in the office of the
Minister for Transport. Mallam has
said he is standing for pre-selection,
though there are likely to be several
other would-be legislators in the field.
If he wants to get on in the “Labor”
party he’ll have to drop this idea of
working for nothing. He apparently
doesn’t know that the party’s current
motto is “Nothing under £2750.”
e •
After accepting the Commonwealth’s
offer of a £2 million interest-free loan
to finance the Olympic village, Victorian
Premier Cain was asked about the site.
replied: “I am not interested and I
don’t care where the village goes t lam
finished with the Olympic-village ques-
tion, lam not worrying any more about
it and I don’t intend to touch it until
1954.” After that chilly reception the
most suitable spot for the village would
seem to be on an iceberg near Heard
Island.
Gain had good reason for not com-
mitting himself on the site. Some
members of his Cabinet want the village
built on Housing Commission land at
Heidelberg; others, led by ' Health
Minister Barry, are pushing the claims of
North Carlton.
o •
Abie Landa, successor to Finnan as
N. S. Wales Prices Minister, has been able
to announce some price-reductions. The
main items—oatmeal, spaghetti and baked
beans—won’t make much difference to
the family budget, but, still, they are
encouraging if they indicate a trend.
Unfortunately, almost the same day that
Abie’s smiling photograph accompanied
the Press announcement, his colleague.
Minister for Local Government Renshaw,
broke the news that there will probably
be an 11 per cent, increase in the charge
for bulk electricity on May 1. The
amount to be passed on to consumers
hasn’t been worked out yet, but it looks
as if what we save on the baked beans
we’ll lose on the baked dinner.
• •
Queensland Cabinet held a meeting in
Rockhampton last week. This must not
be taken as a hint that Gair and Co.
intend to move the State capital up to
Capricornia to combat the New State
movement further north ; it was just that
the A.L.P. Convention was being held
at Rocky and all good “Labor” men had
to be there.
• •
S.-p. betting, always a live topic
among “Labor” politicians, held the stage
for a while at the Rockhampton confer-
ence. Gair asked delegates to adopt a
referendum plan on off-the-course betting.
His scheme provides for a referendum
in any of the four electoral zones if
10 per cent, of the people in a zone ask
for one. If a referendum is held the
Government will accept the verdict of a
simple majority. The proposal was
accepted by the convention, some dele-
gates supporting it because they felt it
opened up the way to legalising s.-p.;
others, such as Speaker Mann, for the
opposite reason that they felt sure no
zone would ever carry a referendum on
the question.
Compromise seems to be the keynote
of the Gair plan. It throws both the
initiative and the decision on s.-p. betting
back on the people—but not on the
people of the State as a whole. A State-
wide referendum would have Buckley’s
chance of success ; the zone idea gives the
people of North and Western Queensland
—whence comes most of the agitation for
legalised s.-p. —the opportunity of hold-
ing separate referenda. The voting popu-
lation of those two zones—represented
almost entirely by “Labor” in the State
Parliament —is about 150,000, compared
with 550,000 in the rest of the State.
• 9
Last Wednesday the Doyle commission
sat for a brief period and adjourned
until May 18. Doyle, committed for
trial on 14 charges of forgery and fraud,
will come up for trial at Quarter Sessions
commencing April 2, and it is assumed
the charges against him will have been
disposed of by the time the commission
is due to resume.
• •
From today housewives in Melbourne
will pay 9id. a pint for bottled milk, and
if the application of Queensland dairy-
CANBERRA CORRESPONDENT
men for a price rise succeeds that will
also be the price in Brisbane. Still,
families in both cities can draw a sort of
cold comfort from the knowledge that
in the Cahill capital the price for months
past has been elevenpence .
• •
The decision of caucus to allow Cal-
well to dog Menzies’s footsteps through-
out the Senate campaign must be about
the best news the Government parties
have heard for a long time. The idea is
that Arthur will tag along a couple of
days behind Bob and speak in every one
of the 30 towns visited by the P.M.
“Labor” only needs to send Eddie Ward
along a day or so after Anticlimax
Arthur and a Government victory is
assured.
• •
P. J. Kennelly, Federal secretary of
the A.L.P., and himself a Senate candi-
date, has been in Hobart looking into
reports that Senator Morrow, dropped
from Tasmania’s Senate team, may run
against the ticket under the banner of
“Industrial Labor.” With six vacancies
to be filled in Tasmania, “Labor” was
certain of a three-three result, but
Morrow has a considerable following in
the north and nor’-west of the State, and
his entry into the field might complicate
matters.
• •
An unexpected hurdle suddenly
appeared in the path of the Victorian
two-for-one redistribution bill when it
was realised that constitutionally it re-
quired an absolute in both
Houses before it could become law. This
was assured in the Assembly, but not in
the Council. The catch was a clause
providing for a reduction of seats in the
event of a future Commonwealth re-
distribution causing Victoria to have less
than 33 Federal electoral districts. As
this was the only clause requiring an
absolute majority, the Parliamentary
draftsman was directed to whip it out.
After he had done so the bill proceeded
on its merry way.
• •
Doc. Evatt doesn’t think much of Doc.
Page’s National Health scheme. What
probably offends him most is that the
scheme is working; Nick McKenna’s
scheme, which Evatt presumably still sup-
ports, filled hundreds of files but never
got past the blueprint stage.
• • -
When the bill to tighten security regu-
lations concerning atomic-energy research
reached the Senate “Labor” Senators
O’Flaherty and Morrow spoke strongly
against it. The reason for Senator
O’Flaherty’s opposition to the bill (and to
his party’s support of it) seemed to be
that in 1947 when he visited Rum Jungle
a geiger-counter detected some uranium
he and some other members had in their
pockets and which should not have been
there. The geiger-counter apparently
does its job well, but as a security agent
it has its limitations. The new bill will
strengthen the hands of the Atomic
Energy Commission. Is that why Senator
Morrow opposed it?
• •
At the beginning of the year Victorian
Opposition-leader Oldham forecast that
Cain would be cutting down on public
works and putting off Government em-
ployees just before the Senate elections
and laying the blame, of course, on the
Federal Government for not providing
sufficient funds. It hasn’t happened yet,
but at the weekend Cain broadcast that
he had made a recent check on Victoria’s
financial position and had found it “far
worse than I had ever imagined.” His
next move is now awaited.
• •
External Affairs Minister Casey, ex-
plaining the difference between foreign
policy as run by Evatt and under the
present Government:
The Labor party in office before us
adopted a foreign policy of being highly ,
critical to the very people who are our
best friends —England and America. Our
foreign policy now is to express our own
ideas in public and private, but to try to
the greatest extent possible to go along with
the policies of these two.
Under Evatt Australia’s conduct in inter-
national affairs seemed governed by an
inferiority complex—a fear that co-
operation might be misaken for subservi-
ence.
• •
Polling-day for the Dailey by-election
to fill the vacancy caused by the death
of former Speaker Rosevear has been
fixed for the day of the Senate poll,
May 9. Nominations close April 17.
• •
There’s to be an inquiry into the
activities of the Potato Marketing Board
in Victoria, following upon charges that
the board has been partly to blame for
Melbourne’s current shortage of spuds.
Minister for Agriculture Stoneham, an-
nouncing the personnel of the seven-
member all-party select committee, said
there was prima facie evidence that the
board had intensified the shortage. In-
terest in this inquiry will not be confined
to potato-consumers —or to Victorians.
A report tabled in Canberra by the
Standing Committee on Public Works
giving details of plans approved by the
Department of Works for a new Taxa-
tion Department building in Brisbane
suggests the committee’s work might well
be extended. Estimated cost of the
building is £1,687,500; one witness sug-
gested that close on a million could be
clipped off this. The committee seemed
to think he wasn’t far out. For some
time a grandiose complex has been
evident in the planning of Government
office accommodation. No on© expects
civil servants to work in tents or shacks,
but that does not mean that Hollywood
palaces must be provided.
• •
“S. M. Herald” quotes “a senior rail-
ways official” as saying that “electricity
has become a heavy cost item since the
Electricity Commission took over the
railways power-supply.” Householders
have noticed the same thing. They have
no redress, but as far as the railways are
concerned it seems that the Minister for
Transport is entitled to have quite a lot
to say to his colleague in charge of the
One-Big-Power-Plan.
• •
Apparently the samples of Collinsville
(Q.) coal that went to Japan measured up
to requirements ; Mines Minister Riordan
has been able to announce the sale of
100,000 tons to Japan. The coal will be
sold at the same price as to local buyers,
and will ensure full working for the
Collinsville mine up to the end of this
year.
• •
Stung by frequent assertions that the
Menzies Government was “doing nothing
for the farmers,” Senator O’Sullivan
(Minister for Customs) said that, apart
from other things, the Government had
“freed agricultural machinery from sales
tax. Later came agricultural implements
and materials, plants, seeds, fertilisers,
piping, tanks, pumping-machinery and
windmills. While the list was too long
for publication, it* included livestock,
poultry and bees imported for breeding
purposes ; plant for bulk wheat-handling ;
water-bore casing and fittings; trough-
ing, sprinklers and irrigation machinery ;
goods for eradicating diseases and pests,
for maintaining livestock, and for use in
the dairying, fruit, poultry and bee-
keeping industries.”
• •
A statement by the First Lord of the
Admiralty that the .Russian Navy was
now the second-largest in the world,
Britain’s having slipped back to third
place, caused so much consternation in
Britain that the Parliamentary Secretary
to the Admiralty had to get up in the
Commons apd explain it. It appears that
what his chief meant was “second-biggest
in commission.” The R.N. has a size-
able fleet “in mothballs,” including four
battleships. The Red Fleet’s main strength
is in submarines; its weakness, aircraft-
carriers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pat”: He called to deliver a load of
soil and a load of sand. I suggested the
back lawn. “Can’t get the truck down
the drive. Too narrow,” he said, “I
could dump it on the front drive,
though.” I explained that the family
car needed to use that thoroughfare.
He shrugged. “Guess I’ll have to dump
it on the footpath then.” I protested
that previous consignments had been
delivered round the back without any
difficulty. “I’ll ring the firm,” I said,
“and you can speak to them about it.”
He refused, “Why not?” I asked.
“ ’Cos, lady, mine’s outside work and
don’t call for me to do no inside jobs,
like telephonin’, see?” He stumped back
to his truck and, doing his “outside work”
to the best of his ability, managed to
unload the soil on the back lawn,
“Phil Anthus”: Now that the Test
team is on its way to England our cricket
scribes will have a few weeks’ respite in
which to polish up their similes. Taking
advantage of this breathing-space, I sub-
mit, in mass-formation, an assortment
culled from their writings of the season
just closed. Know, then, that at one stage
Harvey’s fours “flowed like chips from a
jackpotted poker-machine.” That being
so, it was inevitable that the South
African field should “spread wide, like
King Farouk’s waistline.” Moreover, in
another match the same young Harvey
saved the situation when Australia’s team
“looked like the wreck of the Hesperus,”
And as for the nature of his individual (
shots, why, one ball was smitten to the
fence “like a flash from Sir Horace
Robertson’s monocle.” It follows that
in such stern circumstances one of the
visiting bowlers was forced to “polish up
the ball like a fruit-barrowman preparing
an apple for public view.” But, of course,
the business wasn’t all one-sided. There
came a time when Australia’s attack
“looked like trying to blow a bank-vault
with hungers.” That, as you may guess.
Was due to the absence of a certain star
bowler, a fact that caused the local team
to “look like Annie Get Your Gun with-
out Annie’s little brother.” Indeed, Aus-
tralia then had “reached the stage that
Jungle Book Mowgli’s wolf-pack leader,
Akela, reached just before he was deposed
from the Council Rock.” Whew! After
that it may be something of an anti-
climax to note, merely, that one batsman
was left standing “like a shag on a rock” ;
that another was “harder to halt than the
basic wage” ; and that Hassett was seen
to “examine a faulty spot as interestedly
as if he had discovered a deposit of
uranium.”
♦♦♦ *X* ❖
“Jasby”: She was a dear old lady and
very eager to help the Boy Scout “bottle-
drive” into the maelstrom of which I
had been swept by the enthusiasm of
my two young sons. “Would you mind
going into the shed round the back?”
she asked. “I’ve only got a few, though.
I just get it for medicinal purposes.
Doctor’s orders, you know.” We went to
the shed. The old girl must have been
on doctor’s orders for a very long time,
and he must have changed the order
rather frequently. A more mixed lot
I’ve seldom seen and it constituted the
best single coup of the whole drive. W©
had to back the truck in to collect ’em.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Cosmo” : Seasonal thoughts of hot-
cross buns reminded my cousin of a
pub he visited in England during
the war. It was called the Widow’s
Son, and as he passed under a
rafter he nearly bumped into a collection
of hard objects swinging on a length of
wire. They were hot-cross buns! Cousin
was told that well over 100 years ago a
lad went to sea, promising his widowed
mother to return for Easter. When the
tar didn’t return at Easter his mother
took a bun from the batch she had baked
and hung it from the rafter. The sailor
never returned, but year after year, the
old lady added a bun to the swinging
cluster. When she died the custom was
continued, and a new bun is still added
every Easter. During the blitz a blast
rocked the inn, and some of the buns
were dislodged. The ones that fell, say
the locals, were new buns ; those made
by the old lady stayed put.
“ Aren't We NAUGHTY girls!”
“Contact” (Japan): The market for
slouch hats (B. 18/2/’53) hasn’t changed
much. As late as last summer in Korea
Aussies were being stopped in the streets
of Seoul by souveniring Americans and
asked to put a price on their headgear.
The M.P.s’ well-known hatred of hatless
soldiers was a barrier to free-trading.
Members of Australia’s first squadron
who flew to Japan to join the occupation
force were in a better position. On the
way an overnight stop was made
at an American-held island and a
tent caught fire. Next day all men who
had lost anything in the fire were ordered
to report for replacement. This brought
to light the surprising fact that almost
every slouch hat in the squadron had
been in that tent at the time of the fire.
*X* ❖ ♦♦♦
“Tarp”: During the war the
windows of the London tube trams were
covered with a fabric mesh to protect
passengers from glass splintered by bomb
bursts. It also prevented seeing anything
outside the train at all, and it wasn t
long before the citizens mutilated the
mesh to provide spy-holes for them to
identify the stations. David Lahgdon,
a “Punch” cartoonist, was commissioned
to draw a cartoon, prints of which were
pasted in every train carriage. They
depicted “Billy Brown of London Town.”
Billy, with his bowler hat, his umbrella
and his spats was the embodiment of the
socially conforming Londoner. He was
shown reproving a mesh-mutilator, prod-
ding him with his umbrella and saying,
“Pardon me for my correction,
That mesh is placed for your protection!”
Some wag quickly added the rejoinder,
“Thank you for your information.
But I only want to see the station.”
♦J+ ❖ ❖
“Spasebo”: Picasso has done it again
by presenting to a Communist paper in
Paris what looks like a charcoal drawing
of Stalin. Offered as a tribute, it has
shocked Reds the world over. It shows
a youthful Joe with a drooping moustache
and no particular expression, and the
humorless comrades say it lacks “social
realism.” I don’t know what social
realism is, but the sketch looks to me a
thoroughly worthless bit of academic
drawing. Also in the Art news is the
equally innocuous “Unknown Political
Prisoner,” by Reg Butler, which won the
International Sculpture prize of £4525,
It is a naive affair of stone and wire
which is supposed to represent three
women watching a cage. A Stateless
man was so oVercome when he saw it
that he dashed it to the floor and smashed
if. The sculpto? said he could replace it
in two or three days. He can’t be in-
tending to work flat-out, or two or three
minutes would be sufficient.
“Spokeshave”: Primitive art? On the
blackboard were drawings in colored
chalks. “How simple, how direct and
yet how masterly in composition! What
an innocence of eye those people had,”
murmured an art patroness who had
come to the university to see an abo-
riginal-art exhibition. “Pardon me,
madam,” said the lecturer. “Those are
diagrams I have just drawn of the human
internal orgafts. This is the anatomy
school,”
♦♦♦ *** *
“T.W.”; Did De Gonneville visit Aus-
tralia (B. 4/3/’53)? For many years it
was claimed that he bumped into New
Zealand and that the black whom he took
to France was a Maori. In 1939 Rev.
Peter McKeefry (now Coadjutor Arch-
bishop of New Zealand) was in France
making historical investigations in con-
tinuation of the work he had done in
translating the records of the Pdmpallier
mission to N.Z. for the Pompallier cen-
tenary celebrations. He made first-hand
inquiries into the De Gonneville story
and after his return lectured before the
Auckland Historical Society; he was
able to show that the Frenchman never
left the Atlantic; that he came to land
somewhere in South America. So bang
goes another myth!
♦♦♦ *** ❖
“Pate”: Queensland Turf Club recently
announced that dope-testing would be
carried out at provincial mid-week race-
meetings, as well as at metropolitan
courses. Two days later, stewards at a
country course made public a couple of
hours before the first race that dope-tests
would be held that day. Of 68 horses
entered for the meeting 35 were scratched.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Vingter”: A Dutchman once said to
me “You British are taught at school
that Waterloo was a great victory for
the British under Wellington. Young
Germans have always learned that the
efforts of Bliicher’s Prussians alone
turned what otherwise would have been
a rout into an allied triumph. In Hol-
land we were taught that Waterloo was
a comparatively unimportant engagement,
the issue having been decided some days
before at Quatre Bras, where, of course,
the soldiers of the Netherlands played
the battle-winning part. And, on the
reverse side of the historical picture, the
Frenchmen, to this day, do not believe
that they lost the battle.” I was re-
minded of his remarks when I read in a
U.S. journal an account of the Ameri-
cans’ winning contribution to the battle
of Milne Bay, where, in fact, the only
Yanks engaged were a splendidly-per-
forming thirty-odd members of an en-
gineering company who, though there
was no place for them on the operational
plan, somewhat profanely declined an in-
vitation to leave the battle area.
♦> ❖
“Sarge”: On polling-day Granny
hastened to the Town Hall to cast her
vote. On the way she paused every time
she saw a “How-to-vote” canvasser and
took a handful of samples. As she left
the polling-booth she pocketed all loose
cards that had been dropped by previous
voters. I asked what she wanted them
for. It was quite simple. “They come
in handy for the grocery order.”
$
“Irving”: He came into our compart-
ment of the north-bound train at Innis-
fail (N.Q). well sozzled, and carrying a
Jcapok-filled cushion which was smoking
sullenly, evidently as a result of contact
with the cigar he carried in his other
hand. After gratefully receiving the
information that the cushion was on fire
he hurriedly squeezed the glowing area
and then passed on. Thirty-six hours
later I saw him, still leaving behind a
trail of smoke, carrying the same cushion
in the lounge of the State Hotel at
Babinda. Again he seemed grateful for
the information, and went through the
same extinguishing process and then
passed on. A wee!: later, at Herberton
on the Atherton Tableland, the familiar
odor hit my nostrils in the lounge at one
of the town’s pubs. I don’t k- jw how
many wooden pubs the alcoholic torch-
bearer had passed through with his
smouldering bundle, but, though it is
now 25 years since I last saw it, I’m
wondering if the cushion has yet burnt
itself out.
THOUGHTS ON THE DOLE
“It is very difficult to contact these people
who are laying complaints that tradesmen will
not take work, but continue to receive unem-
ployment benefits.” —Director of Social Services,
Mr. Afflick,
It is, perhaps, as dark a thing
As man can have upon his soul:
Refusing work that’s offering
While pocketing a public dole ;
It sounds so like an imprecation
That none will speak the accusation.
From January to December,
However, an inspector notes,
A person called a “Labor” member,
Whose love of work has earned the
quotes,
May often by sharp eyes be found
Hanging thoughtfully around.
In New South Wales he’s not gregarious ;
For two or three weeks in the year
He gets together, gets hilarious.
And then he tends to disappear;
And for this life of simple pleasure,
he
Draws a rich dole from the Treasury.
More than a thousand pounds per annum
Is doled to each and every one.
And, short of finding means to ban ’em,
When we consider what they’ve done,
We’d willingly pay more, I guess
If they’d agree to “Labor” less.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Sack”: As sure as I park myself on
a beach which bears prominent signs:
“Dogs Not Allowed on This Beach,” a
friendly hound will take possession of
me with the _most obvious pride of
ownership. When, for the benefit of a
watching beach-inspector, I attempt to
snub the canine, I am invariably leapt
upon and licked with exuberant devotion.
If the sign also forbids ball games on
the beach, the pup is a certainty to bound
away, and return with a ball in his mouth
"Didn't we arrange that if you drove I chose the picnic-spot ?”
and a beseeching look in his eye—
thereby incriminating me on two charges,
I thought I’d reached the limit in beach
embarrassment, until last week, when I
found myself landed with Timothy. A
girl of about eight put the thin, leather
leash in my hands, commanded me in a
nice way to "mind Timothy while I have
a swim, mister,” and flitted away. She
was gone an unconscionable time. And
all the time Timothy was making foolishly
ineffectual attempts to go walkabout,
Never was a kid so welcome as that girl
when she returned to relieve me of the
source of my blushing embarrassment,
What was there to blush about? Well,
you try holding a tortoise on a leash
on a crowded beach!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: Within an hour of the
announcement of the death of Stalin
enormous photographs of him appeared
around the streets in Melbourne, which
suggests that somebody must have been
working hard for the Great Cause some-
where. This reminds me of an experi-
I just want to be able to tell all the Sydney girls what the Melbourne
girls are Wearing .”
ence of a friend who, during the war,
joined a country-town branch of the
Friends of the Soviet Union. It cost him
a bob per annum and he heard nothing
further until he got a notice to attend
the annual meeting. He went along, to
discover that the committee comprised
three parsons and an elderly spinster and
that file agenda consisted of speeches,
followed by a whist drive. He couldn’t
reconcile Marx and Lenin with whist,
so he hasn’t paid his bob since then.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Tom”; Every nation has its food
prejudices (B. 4/3/’53). According to
David Fairchild, a famous American
plant-collector, the French regard maize
with disfavor. In Exploring for Plants
he writes that when he visited France in
the 1920’s in the course of a world-tour
in search of economic plants French
farmers told him they regarded it as fit
only for poultry, and were astonished
when he told them that it was a popular
food in the U.S.A. In Belgium he found
the same dislike of maize. Indeed, several
Belgians told him how they appreciated
[h se lf. sacri flcinir snirit of the oeonle of
A • . • w T ?
A"? 6 ™ 8 f“ r | n 8 World War I ‘\ eatm B
ma,ze s 0 that more wheat could be sent
t 0 Western Europe. They were doubtful
his sincerity when he assured them
that no question of self-sacrifice was
involved—a great number of his country-
men far preferred maize-foods to those
derived from wheat.
“Plankton”: “Pip Tok’s” reference to
the South African Government changing
their infantry privates’ designation to
“rifleman”,(B. 4/3/’53) recalls that this
term has long been used in the British
Army, and probably still is in the so-
called Rifle Regiments, including the
Scottish Rifles and the King’s Royal
Rifles. In these units rifles were carried
at the trail instead of at the slope. The
old uniform of the Rifle Regiment was
black, including buttons and leather
equipment; it contrasted strongly with
the gay dress worn by other units of
the period,
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Lofty”: Nameplates on motor-bikes
(B. 11/3/’53)? The daddy of ’em all
was one I saw at Coolangatta (Q.). Re-
splendent with fairy-lights, streamers, red
reflectors, calfskin saddlecover and a
host of etceteras, it also sported a chrome
nameplate on the front guard, with the
lettering upside-down. After falling for
it ourselves, we watched almost every
passer-by almost stand on his head to
read the name, “Stickybeak.”
❖ ❖
Clem Lack; New York cables announc-
ing the death of Charles Gordon Curtis
credited him with the invention of the
modem turbine, which revolutionised
steam and electrical power. The claim
is unjust to British inventiveness. Curtis
patented his steam turbine in 1896, but
Charles Parsons had built the first prac-
tical turbine engine in 1884. In 1897
he built the Turbinia, the first turbine-
driven ship, to demonstrate his marine
steam-turbine to the Admiralty. Britain
led the way in marine turbine develop-
ment.
♦♦♦
“Flickers”: British minelayer Manx-
man (B. 11/3 / ’53) has been in action
again—this time as a baddie. She was
lent by the Navy for use in shooting a
film, “Single Handed,” based on C. S.
Forester’s novel Brown on Resolution.
For the purposes of the film the Manx-
man. became a German cruiser.
*l* ♦♦♦ *l*
“Jon”: Delighted with discovering an
ex-Hungarian, Snow was unrolling ‘ his
knowledge of the Continent, embellishing
most placenames with exciting experi-
ences. Night-fighters, flak and all that
sort of thing. He reached the point
where he became a p.-0.-w. “That must
have been very bad,” sympathised his
audience. “It was a bit rough,” admitted
Snow, and then added generously, “but
you probably know all about that. Prob-
ably been a prisoner yourself, eh?” “Oh,
yes, for a time,” said the Newstralian.
“Who had you,” asked Snow, “the
Jerries or the Russians?” The New
Aussie didn’t bat an eye. “Oh, no,” he
said, “the Yanks.” As Snow said later,
“He might have had the decency to say
‘the British.’ ”
❖ ❖
“Tidak Makan”: On May 1, 1788, an
important document signed by the Com-
missary, Andrew Miller, was handed to
Governor Phillip. It was an account of
the livestock in the colony of New South
Wales at that date. There were 15 types
of animals and birds listed, and the
account showed to whom they belonged.
The persons or bodies named were
Government, Governor, Lieut.-Govemor,
officers and men of the Marines, staff,
and, finally, “other individuals.” In the
last-named column only one hog is shown.
There is nothing in the account to show
who this “individual” owner was, but I
feel sorry for him; he must have lost a
lot of sleep wondering whether anyone
had sent his pig off. No one would have
been foolish enough to purloin a hog
belonging to the Governor, but the temp-
tation to pinch one belonging to an
“other individual” must have been very
great.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Looby”: Passing one of those houses
whose front-room is flush with the street,
I listened approvingly as somebody sawed
painfully through a simple but very
classical piece. An unseen guest’s voice
floated outward: “And can she play
anything popular yet, Elsie, or is she
still just learning ?”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“H.C.8.”: Girls employed in chain-
stores strike some unusual jobs. When
a novel toy duck was on sale I saw
girls doing nothing else all day but
boredly demonstrate the way it laid eggs.
An elephant which spouted water from
its trunk employed them next, then a
kangaroo that fired a joey from its pouch.
But my sympathy really went out to the
girl who stood for hours beside a table
and repeatedly dropped cups on the floor,
to prove that they really were unbreak-
able. A chap standing near me saw
things differently. “Just the sort of job
for my daughter,” he growled. “If
there’s one thing she’s good at it’s drop-
ping cups. Costs about four-bob every
time she does the washing-up.”
“Craiser”: This alleged rudeness of
Australians (B. 18/3/’53). A well-known
Melbourne artist who sports a beard
offered an old lady his seat in a train.
Looking balefully around at the rest of
the passengers the old girl shouted: “It’s
nice to see these foreigners coming out to
this country who can teach us good
manners.”
♦♦♦ ♦l*
“Burker”: again will I enter a
theatre after the programme has begun.
Last week at interval at the local pictures
I went out for my usual smoke, leaving
my wife content with a bag of chocolates.
The lights were out when I returned and,
groping my way carefully between the
tangle of protruding feet and nyloned
legs, I sank into my seat. Just as Bogart
was about to blaze his way across the
screen, I dipped my hand into the wife's
bag, took out a choc, and popped it into
my mouth. A strange voice, barbed
with icicles, hissed in my ear: “Don’t
ask —just help yourself” Guiltily I
slunk away in search of the right seat.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Peetee”: When Jerry dropped his
paratroopers at Corinth in 1941 Nugget
and Darky were sheltering in a fold of
a hill when a plump and perspiring figure
in the uniform of an R.M.C. captain
plummeted their way from the rise above
them. The new arrival, who, in perfect
English, cursed the Stukas which had
gunned his R.A.P., was identified by
Nugget as a disguised Jerry who had
dumped his parachute. Nugget, pressing
a pistol against the suspect’s midriff,
made sarcastic references to the short-
comings of the Jerry intelligence which
had equipped the captain in the uniform
of an R.M.C. officer and then dropped
him in an area occupied by Australians.
The suspect excitedly protested his bona
fides, but Nugget, keeping well behind
him, told him to pick up a rifle and try
a few shots at the descending Jerries.
After protesting that by doing so he
would be violating the rules proscribing
use of arms by medical personnel, the
captain started shooting. His marks-
manship was critically examined by Darky
and found satisfactory. Warming up
to his work he was still shooting when
Nugget and Darky decided to cut and
run. He went with them into a p.-0.-w.
camp.
A FALL FROM PRIDE
“Sydney fish-shops blame the prohibitive
price of crayfish for the falling demand. Most
of them now go to night-clubs, where patrons
apparently don’t care what they pay. ’
Note, I invite, some famous partnerships,
Not all of which you’d say enrich our
Earth;
Big politicians and expensive trips
And publicans and embonpoint (or
girth).
The pencilled eyebrows and the blood-
red lips,
Socialist planners and some vital dearth.
The shoes a size too small must go with
bunions;
And what, I ask, would tripe be with-
out onions ?
The justly-celebrated ham-and-eggs,
The low deposit and some “easy”
terms ;
The pigeon-toes that go with bandy legs,
Great memories and long-eared pachy-
derms.
The social cricket match and two cool
kegs,
A hash-house kitchen and a mob of
germs;
The post-meridiem teacups loudly clatter-
ing—
And women even louder, busy nattering,
And yet there’s one, far nobler than all
these.
Whose end is now at hand — ah, sad to
say.
Fell victim of the economic squeeze.
The drunk, wrenched from the bar,
wildly a-sway,
Singing incomprehensibilities.
No longer can afford the luscious cray
Which he was wont to lug round on a
tether
Of string; both “boiled,” homing along
together.
Crustacean in your deep-pink overcoat.
With flesh as white as any driven snow,
Whose destiny it once was to promote
Good-fellowship, for you it’s West-
ward-ho !
The thug. Inflation, has you by the throat.
But what humiliation you must know.
To think you’re ousted in the partner-
ship
By that low proletarian, Fishman -Chip!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
LAWYER
Curly wigs
and curly words
are the forms Law uses
when it records
the dances of passion—
as stately jigs
in curly words
and curly wigs.
N.S.W.
SHAN BENSON.


§
£xifce
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Adelaide C.5.1.R.0. man D. S. Rice-
man, M.Sc., has been awarded the Aus-
tralian Medal of Agricultural Science for
1953. The award is made for work over
the past five years. Previous holders
were: Professor S. M. Wadham, Pro-
fessor W. L. Waterhouse, Professor J. A.
Prescott, Dr. E. A. Cornish and Professor
E. J. Underwood. Riceman’s work on
copper and zinc deficiency has made pos-
sible the development of a huge tract of
country in South Australia where, previ-
ously, economic agriculture was impos-
sible,
V
Flight-Sergeant Ken Murray, of Went-
worthville (N.S.W.), with 77 Squadron
in Korea, not long ago completed 300
missions, to establish a world record for
jet-flying. On completing his 320th mis-
sion he broke another record (held by
Flight-Lieutenant Wally Rivers, D.F.C)
by flying more combat missions than any
other pilot in Korea, The clinching job
was leading four flights of Meteors in
an escort for American bombers whose
target was a bridge in the Wonsan area:
on his return he was informed his com-
mission had come through. It is his
second tour of operational duty in Korea.
SERGEANT TOM CORRIGAN, of
Camp Mackay (see page 26)
Returning home to Sydney, after an
absence of five years, actor Leo Mc-
Kern, who, in less than half that time,
rose from theatrical obscurity to coveted
roles. He was engaged by the Old Vic.
for their last season in temporary quarters
at the “New,” When the company re-
opened in Waterloo-road the following
year, McKern had already become one
of its most useful members. He played
six parts that season, and seven (including
a “treble” in Marlowe’s “Tamburlaine”)
the next. An invitation from the Strat-
ford Memorial Theatre to tour New
Zealand and Australia followed. There
will be a double reunion with the folks
in Sydney, since Mrs. McKern (Jane
Holland) is a local girl who, up to six
years ago, was a film and radio actress
in Australia. McKern is to play lago.
Touchstone and Glendower. He is an
actor of tremendous dynamic power who
depends upon visual, rather than vocal,
projection. No ballet-dancer, Helpmann
included, was ever more poised and com-
pelling in movement. Whether as a
straight- or a character-actor he follows
no set tradition. Markedly individual in
style, he is at his best at the extremities
of characterisation. Of his 15 or so roles
at the Old Vic. he is best remembered
as the Old Man in “Electra,” the Greek
Confectioner in “The Wedding,” Brush in
“The Clandestine Marriage”—for his
stylised fooling—as a plangent Fool
in “Lear” and a stately ruin of senility
as Apemantus in “Timon of Athens.”
If only for the academic degrees which
follow his name, Alexandre Vachon,
Archbishop of Ottawa, should be one of
the most interesting visitors to the
National Eucharistic Congress to be held
in Sydney this month. Besides degrees
in Divinity and Philosophy, the Arch-
bishop carries degrees in Law, Science
and Arts. He is also a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Canada and the
Canadian Institute of Chemistry. Edu-
cated at Laval and Harvard Universities
and at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, he ultimately became Rector
of Laval before being promoted to his
present position. Thick-set, kindly and
unassuming, he carries his scholarship
lightly.
Calling it a day at 98, Charles Clarence
Gale last month retired from the boards
of two companies, Australian General
Insurance and Mercantile Mutual. He
had been a director of the first since its
formation in 1913, of the second since
1912. He was chairman of both boards
during the years 1928-52.
From Norman Lindsay:
I wish to amplify an item in Rose Lindsay’s
reminiscences in order to correct a slightly
invidious inference to be drawn from Madame
Melba’s gift of soap to me at that exhibition
of my work in Melbourne. Melba, on depart-
ing, said to me: “I’ll give you a bit of advice.
When travelling, always take your own soap
with you. It’s impossible to get decent soap
anywhere on the Continent.” I thanked
Madame for this warning, and she departed,
and about 10 minutes afterwards a box of
expensive soap arrived with Madame’s compli-
ments. But in the demented rush of affairs
before sailing at the end of the week, I regret
to say that I left her gift of soap behind me,
for which 1 apologise to Madame’s memory.
She was a good friend to art and artists.
Everett Mitchell, an American with a
softly-pleasant voice, a high forehead
and spectacles, dropped in on Sydney in
time for the Sydney Show. He is agri-
cultural commentator for the N.B.C.
coast-to-coast network, and he is on a
world tour sponsored by Allis-Chalmers
(tractors). His itinerary was carefully
planned to include the Show. Here, on
a split-second schedule, he will see that
huge cross-section of our agricultural
and industrial life, take a pictorial record
of it, to be shown to the folk in the States
in color and in 'black-and-white, visit
some farms —a dairyfarm run by a
Junior Farmer and a vegetable-farm, also
a Junior Farmer’s, were two items
glimpsed in pages bristling with minutes
and dead-lines —go to Canberra and, last
but not least important, renew contact
with the four members of America’s 4H
Clubs in these parts. The 4H Club
organisation corresponds to our Junior
Farmer movement, although, one gathers,
it is rather more highly organised. In
various parts of the world and in various
alternating parts of the U.S. 4H boys
and girls are working on farms, learn-
ing the business at first-hand and passing
on the information gained in their travels.
Mitchell has a lot to say about the move-
ment, all of it glowing. Major stops in
his travels —Australia, New Zealand,
India and Pakistan. A modest chap, he
disclaims the rank of agricultural expert:
he is, he insists, an agricultural reporter.
A landed gentleman:
N.S.W. R.A.S. president knight Colin Sinclair
has a variety of interests —business, political,
social and charitable —which, listed, recall the
more leisurely age when landed gentlemen
ran the affairs of the country. He is a landed
gentleman—born in the New England country
in 1876. His father owned Waterloo, Glen
Innes, and Sir Colin and his family owned six
station-properties in N.S.W. Three of these
properties were made available for soldier-
settlement and a fourth was sold to a pastoral
company. Total area of what’s left: 17,400
acres freehold and 76,000 acres leasehold. They
carry 36,000 sheep and 600 head of cattle.
For education he went to the Armidale
School and took his Bachelor of Arts and
Bachelor of Laws at Sydney University; the
last as an articled clerk with Minter Simpson.
That’s only one side of the picture, however.
He’s been a director of the Bank of New
South Wales since 1940 —early this year he
became president—a director of the Union
Trustee Company since 1938 (vice-chairman),
a director of the Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Company since 1936, a director
of the Commercial Union Assurance Society
since 1941 and a director of the McGarvie
Smith Institute since 1940. And he’s adviser on
pastoral and agricultural matters to all these
concerns.
Elected to the council of the R.A.S. in 1934,
he became president in 1943. He is also patron
of the Junior Farmers’ Advisory Council of
N-S.W. and Agricultural Societies’ Council,
same State; was a member of the Common-
wealth Jubilee Celebrations Committee; a
member and vice-president also of the council
of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association, and rep-
resented N.S.W. on the Federal council of the
association.
On the political side, he was Country-party
member for Namoi (1932-41). He was honorary
Minister (1937-38) and Minister for Lands
(1938-40).
He is a member of the N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation and a member of the Australian Board
of Cricket Control. He was honorary secretary
(1909-10-11) and he was elected life-member
of the N.S.W. association on his retirement in
1912.
A councillor of the N.S.W. division of the
Flying Doctor Service, he is also a councillor of
the Fairbridge Home Farm, Molong (N.S.W.)
and of Scots College, Sydney.
Clubs? He belongs to the Australian Club,
the Union Club, the University Club and the
Royal Sydney Golf Club. He is a trustee of
the Australian Club and has been president (two
terms).
A man, it would appear, fairly well endowed
with this world’s goods. But not, one would
imagine, one of the idle rich.
Just back from a rush trip to Los
Angeles to pick up the best and latest
gen. on three-dimensional films, Ernest
Turnbull, managing-director of Hoyts,
has been in the picture business since
1923, when he first met up with the film
trade while working for the Common-
wealth Publicity Department. As
managing-director of British Dominion
Films he was responsible for the estab-
lishment of specialised distribution for
British films and of all-British theatres
in Australia and New Zealand. Later he
was managing-director of Gaumont
British in Australia and then g.-m. of
Fox. A 1914-18 Digger, Turnbull was
president of the R.S.L. in Victoria for
seven years, and is now a patron and
life-member. He was also one of the
founders and president of the All for
Australia League, which was closely
associated with the return of the Lyons
Government after the collapse of the
Scullin outfit in 1931.
New deputy-leader of the N.S.W.
Country party, Samuel Douglas Dickson,
member for Temora, is a man whose
career has been marked by energy, leader-
ship and fortitude —no mean qualities in
any company. A Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
boy, he was educated at Cootamundra
Superior Public School, worked for five
years in his father’s business, served with
the 30th Bn., Ist A.1.F., in Egypt and
France and returned with the rank of
lieutenant. He took up a soldier-settler’s
block, which, in those days, was less than
a living area, and he still has it. He has
COUNTRY PARTY
added to it since, but, as many an Old
Digger who took up land in that type of
country can testify, the first years were
hard. An active man, both on the land
and in public life, last year he was struck
by a serious illness which might, at the
least, have put him out of politics for
good. He made an extraordinary recovery,
and is now tanned and fighting-fit.
Olaf Ruhen was noted on this page in
1947 when he came here from New
Zealand to break into Sydney journalism.
In the meantime he has worked for the
“Daily Telegraph,” Associated News-
papers and—his present job—the “Sun-
day Herald.” His acquaintance with The
Bulletin began back in ’37 when, on
selling some stories to the Dunedin
“Evening Star,” he was advised by the
JOURNALIST
editor, W. F. Alexander, to try a story
on The Bulletin. He did, and a single-
column story of his was published the
same years. He has been sending ’em
more or less ever since. Stories about
horses, fishing stories, Air Force stories,
and, lately, stories about New Guinea
natives. Olaf has the typical writer’s
background of mixed experience. Farm-
work in New Zealand, including a spell
looking after a stallion (used in a story),
some high-country shepherding (unused),
shearing (unused), 6| years with a fishing-
fleet (used in stories and articles) and as
a pilot with Bomber Command. His
New Zealand journalistic experience was
with the “Evening Star.” A keen
journalist, he had an idea for pilot-
journalists always on tap to cover bush-
fires, floods, migrations of locusts, etc.,
which was a little before its time. A
recent Bulletin article, “The Blonde in
the Bikini,” was an example of his un-
fettered writing, sardonic, sophisticated
and with the form of a good short story,
the equal to anything in that line being
written in the world today.
N.Z.’s new Police Commissioner, in
succession to the late J. B. Young, is
E. H. Compton, who has been assistant-
commissioner since December last.
Superintendent P. J. Nalder becomes
assistant-commissioner.
Into the Silence:
At 84, in Melbourne, Frederick Farquhar
Robinson, former managing-director of Yarra
Falls, Ltd., leading textile firm. He was a
nephew of Sir Edmund Barton, first Prime
Minister of Australia. A brother, the late Sir
Arthur Robinson, was a State Cabinet Minister.
At 62, in Hobart, William Ellis Kelty, M.M.
On May 30, 1917, a raiding-party of the 40th
Bn. attacked the Germans at Seaforth Farm.
Two of the party were killed and 18 wounded.
Kelty jumped into an enemy trench and was
knocked unconscious by a bomb explosion. He
recovered several hours later, severely wounded.
His equipment and arms had been taken by the
enemy. The trench was still the target of Allied
fire. A mortar-shell burst near him, and again
he was knocked unconscious. Then a trench-
mortar officer and an officer of the 39th Bn.
saw a body blown into the air by a burst and
fall into No Man’s Land. Kelty stood up and
walked into his lines.
In Sydney, at 90, Brigadier-General W. G.
Thompson, former Queensland Senator
(1922-32) and, for 30 years, Vice-Consul for
Sweden at Rockhampton (Q.). He was born
in Northern Ireland, saw active service in the
Boer War and in World War I, and was a
Chevalier of the Royal Order of Vassa.
In Hobart, Dr. Stuart Galloway Gibson,
who won the Military Cross as a lieutenant-
colonel in World War I. A member of the
Tasmanian Council of the 8.M.A., he served
a term as president.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), John Charles Tikao,
descendant of the Banks Peninsula Maoris. He
went overseas with the Maori Pioneer Battalion
as a captain in War I. In War II he was an
instructor in the Air Force.


/OO CANT &O
/Ai TtHERE, PAV^/^
' t
WHOA!


ABORIGINALITIES
“FiliuS Agricolae”: The little township
in the Queensland far west was holding
its one-day Bushman’s Carnival, and an
“open go” had been unofficially declared.
Towards sundown the wife of one genial
gent., wishing to round-up the wandering
one, asked the young constable if he
had seen him about. '“Yes,” was the
“That one with the bodgie haircut is Mummy in nineteen twenty-nine.”
reply, “he’s playing two-up down on
the river-bank.” “Oh,” she said, “but
I could hardly ask you to get him for me,
could I?” “No trouble at all, lady,”
came the prompt reply. “Can’t you see
I’m wearing my ambulance-driver’s cap
today?”
* ♦ * *
“Gulliver”: Whence comes this notion,
prevalent on the N. S. Wales coast, that
scaleless fish are sudden death if eaten?
An adventurous fish-epi-
cure, I’ve sampled quite a
few varieties which have
horrified my acquaintances
-—and this is no voice from
the grave, I assure you. For
instance, the hairtail, or
ribbon-fish, is sft. or 6ft. of
silvery succulence, free
from irritating small bones,
and of a delicious flavor ;
but I’ve never seen it on
sale, and it’s even hard to
give away, because it has no
scales and also looks rather
like an eel to the uninitiated.
(Incidentally, this fish only
appears in the Hawkesbury
River and Stockton Bight
for a brief period each year,
and on the New Zealand
coast, where it’s eaten
readily enough.) .Next con-
sider the John Dory, rated
by T. C. Roughley as one of
our finest edible fish.
Describing it once to a
friend, I mentioned that it
had no scales ; he immedi-
ately recoiled, and firmly pronounced it
dangerous ; only my lifelike appearance
convinced him of his error. Prejudice also
exists against other fish for other reasons.
Many shun the parrot-fish, some because
he is brightly colored (so is a snapper),
others because he has blue or green
bones (a groper has colored bones, too).
The prejudice, however, doesn’t seem to
extend to those delicious fillets, crisp
and golden, stacked among the chips in
the fish-shop window. Oh, ho. They’re
eaten with gusto by all the protagonists
of the scale theory—and where, I ask,
are the scales on a shark?
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Quack”; On our island off the south
Queensland coast we bred Muscovy
ducks, and as the reef was close at hand
and contained whips of suitable food for
them, I encouraged them to forage there
when the tide was out. At first they were
afraid of it, but after a couple of lessons
they took a liking to it. In fact, they
got so enthusiastic after a while they
would go down at high-tide and swim
out to sea in search of the reef that had
unaccountably disappeared. Then a
flock of 11 drakes, just fit for
market, were posted missing. Eventually
we got out the dinghy and found them
on a sand-spit over a mile away. So
poor was their bump of navigation that
when we shooed ’em into the sea again
they headed straight for the horizon.
Has anyone ever tried to muster a mob
of drakes at sea by dinghy, swinging the
lead of the mob and urging the stragglers
along? I don’t recommend it as a
pastime.
“Shamuseen”: Only once have I known
Torres Straits Islanders to stage a strike.
Dissatisfied with their share of pro-
ceeds of sales from marine produce
garnered by them on the “gubmint-
operated” company boats, they refused
to man their cutters and luggers. Revolt
was preached at unruly meetings on the
widely-scattered isles, while Southern
Administration panicked in the know-
ledge that only a handful of white officials
was strung throughout the archipelago.
Police and special constables were rushed
up by steamer. One afternoon, at the
trading-station of which I was tempo-
rarily in charge and which was crammed
with natives (who made no purchases
but sat about the floor in sullenly rebel-
“If THEY get married we’LL be able to share the same kennel .”
lious groups), a rain-squall suddenly
threatened q 20-ton consignment of flour
which had just been landed on the cargo-
wharf. Obeying official instructions which
forbade the issuing of orders on the
grounds that, no matter what their nature,
these might be construed as provocative,
I maintained an appearance of complete
indifference as to what might happen to
the flour. For a few moments 100
anxious glances swept between me and the
stack on the wharf. Then, to a man, the
boongs wilted before the prospect of
“No. 1 kai-kai” being ruined and, in the
absence of an order of any kind, removed
it to shelter in the space of minutes.
Thereafter solidarity again held sway.
* * * *
“Oscar”: In these North Queensland
waters there’s another surf stinger that
John Fountain wasn’t told about (B.
4/3/’53). It attacks only in the first and
last two weeks of the year and gives a
relatively insignificant sting, but this is
followed after a few hours by severe
backache, vomiting and collapse. Dr. H.
Flecker, N.Q.’s renowned naturalist, has
been seeking the culprit for years; now
at last a suspect jelly-fish barely lin. in
diameter has been captured. It has been
given the name Irukandji, after a local
aboriginal tribe,
♦ * ♦ *
“C.A.L.”: The newcomer to the
shearing team had a cauliflower-ear and
a nose which had a decided list to star-
board; as a consequence most fellows
allowed him the last word when his tone
suggested that if a thing’s worth arguing
about it’s worth fighting about. In a
difference of opinion about wet sheep one
day, however, the rep. caused a major
sensation by challenging him to fight it
out. The bout lasted about six hits —
all delivered by the gnarled one. When
he was brought to, the rep. was compli-
mented on his gameness. “What made y’
take a bloke like than on, Jack?” asked
the bab. “Well,” said the rep., who held
more theories than the boss had sheep,
“I figured it out that a bloke who wasn’t
able to stop an opponent bending his
snout and bashing his ear like that could
never be much good with his mitts,”
♦ * * *
“Mingari”: It is the invariable habit
of the jumbuck to feed or drift into the
wind, even though it’s only the slightest
breeze, doubtless with the idea that his
nose will warn him when he’s approach-
ing a lurking enemy. When mustering
big paddocks of, say, 25,000 or 30,000
acres (an all-day job), the musterers
always start off on the leeward side in
the morning, in echelon formation, the
man on the fence being first and the
others strung out to half-way across.
The sheep are passed from one to an-
other, the wind helping to keep them
moving, and then picked up in the after-
noon. This time, the man in the middle
will be the foremost, with a couple of
poor coots on the fence to push the main
mob along. But any sudden strong
change in the wind will upset the whole
plan, especially if it happens during the
midday dinner-camp; but that’s a risk
that has to be taken. A succession of
windless days just prior to the muster
makes the job a tough one, as the sheep
will be scattered in small mobs instead
of being in a main mob with a few
hundred stragglers. This “up-wind”
habit can also cause quite a few losses
in summer —the nitwit woollies will drift
into a corner and stay there till they
die of thirst, especially if, in the next
paddock, there’s a dam or any other
large sheet of water from which they
can get the scent. Cattle, for some
strange reason, feed or drift with the
wind.
♦ * ♦ •
“Uramao”: Since the discovery of the
notornis (takahe), previously believed
extinct, the remote and unexplored parts
of New Zealand’s fiordland have attracted
attention from scientific bodies. An ex-
pedition sponsored by the Canterbury
Museum has explored between Lake Te
Anau and Charles Sound without finding
any traces of the giant moa (extinct for
hundreds of years as far as is known)
which it had set out to track down, but
it was not without result. It brought
back small primitive spiders allied to a
group of antique creatures first found
in Baltic amber. Two more species of
spider hitherto unknown to science were
also obtained.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Most interesting pair of
dogs I’ve met were at a homestead some-
where between Jingellic and Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.). Two of us were in a ute,
having come from Tallangatta (Vic.)
and making for Batlow. Going up a
hill the radiator boiled, so when we
sighted the homestead about 200yds, from
the road I was deputed to go for water.
Inside the gate a blue-heeler crouched,
watching me. To the right on its
haunches was a red kelpie. I spoke to
them. The kelpie gave me a brief grin,
the heeler eyed me steadily. My mate
called, “Keep your eye on that blue
mong.” I went through the gate. The
kelp, got up and circled warily on my
right, the blue dog got between me and
the gate and hung, poised in the character-
istic dingo crouch. Neither dog said a
word, but it was clear I’d now have
to go to the house before 1 could
get back to the ute. As a test I veered
to the'left. The kelpie shot across and
covered me, the blue moved about 2ft.
closer and went lower to the ground.
Properly scared, not of the kelp., but ot
the blue, I looked desperately at the
house. Nobody appeared. So, care-
fully worked by the kelpie and tailed
by the blue, I went to the house. Both
dogs dropped me when I reached the
veranda. There was nobody at home.
I found a tank, filled my can, and headed
back. I was worked and tailed back
to the gate in the same manner. Front
that day to this I’ve believed that if I d
tried to take anything but water the pair
would have penned me up till their boss
came back.
THE DRAGONFLY—THE DARTING
NEEDLE
ERIC C. ROLLS.
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch:
What do you sew, you tinker?
A pleat of light
On a new leaf:
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch:
Or a patch of joy
To an old grief:
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch:
Or a lace of delight
To a tattered thought
Or a little boy
To a rude retort.
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch :
Whence your thread, you tinker?
Gold silk drawn
From a taffeta cloud
Rustling with evening;
Or a silver thread
Pulled from the hem
Of a trembling star
That paled and bowed
To the morning sun.
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch:
Like woman’s my work
Is never done
Though I work quick
As a conjuring-trick;
Stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch.
My foot and my eye, you tinker!
I think you fly
From here to there
With never a thought
Or never a care
And all this fancy
Is vapid as air—
Now what do you do on the water,
Dip, dip ; dip, dip?
I sew it with ripples
And light that stipples
Gems on the rushes
Like hair in the water:
And botchily done, you tinker.
The flounces, the ripples
Have fallen already
And night is for wearing
Of jewels in the hair,
Yet now sun is going,
Your gems drop out,
And rushes disordered
Are blowing about.
The river is flowing
Like bolts of black cloth
That have never known scissors
Or never known needle.
I’ll tell you this.
But you’ll not be told —
You are no more a tailor
Than that silly moth
Which just fluttered in
To a watery fold.
You’ll never know what
Or you’ll never know which,
But stitch, stitch; stitch, stitch.
n.s.w.


“Ann”: A breeder of stud-cattle, and
winner of a roomful of trophies, Joe
regards an empty flour-bag as his
proudest prize. His mother won it at a
district show for the ma with the most
kids. “She tied with Mrs. Garnsey—they
both had thirteen apiece,” Joe said when I
asked what it was. “Then how did she
come to win it?” I pursued. “On the
count-back,” explained Joe. “She had
two in the one year. The bag of flour
was the prize.”
*.* * *
“Shamuseen”; So thick is plankton (B.
11/3/ ’53) in some of the Torres Straits
reaches that a pickle-bottle of sea-water
will, in the darkness, give off a milky
glow as a result of the natural, luminosity
exuded at mating-times by the tiny crea-
tures. At stages the presence of myriads
of free-swimming plankton studs the dark
waters with thousands of bluish glows of
a strange beauty. During nor’-west mon-
soonal periods a receding tide will leave
a high-water mark etched in the same
luminance. Sometimes paddle-blades be-
come coated with the creatures, giving
off a phosphorescent glow which attracts
sharks, and they’re apt to snap an oar
from the rower’s hands.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Yes, “Inglebar,” I’m
cobbers with your little wattle-bird, too
(B. 11/3/’53). Agrfee that his conversa-
tion is more pleasing than the raucous
cackle of the bigger bloke in whose com-
pany I grew up farther south, and more
than once I’ve camped under coastal
banksias for the pleasure of that “cooked-
apple” greeting of the dawn. Low lati-
tudes and glamor seem to go together in
this avian family, for the beauty of the
bunch, so far as I know them, was the
brown fellow that fed around our tents
in New Guinea. Mostly in smooth choco-
late, he’d have raised the eyebrows of his
grey-clad cousins of the mainland; and
in contrast to their gabble his call was
really a song—mellow, clear, yet still
retaining the rollicking quality that dis-
tinguishes the language of the clan. With
him were drongos, which essayed no
“By jove , you're right—it Is an 'E'!”
effort in the vocal competition ; shining
starlings that excelled only in squabbling ;
and the pied butcher-bird, whose superb
piping was easily played on the piano—
so far as any piano can pipe. They all
fed low in the scrub at daybreak, but
later on went up amongst the tree-top
blossoms ; they were harder to pick there,
not only because of the dense foliage but
because they were all fluttering around in
the company of butterflies nearly as big
as themselves.
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: Add to “Billy T.’s” list
of firewoods (B. l'B/3/’53) a dry chunk
of Queensland’s sandalwood if he wants
a quick blaze and a lively, crackling fire
(and watch out for the sparks it throws ;
they’ll shower the ground for yards
around). But he’ll have to go to Westralia
“Tell your mother I Won't be home for an hour.”
for the finest timber of the lot to yield
coals for the camp-oven: the north-west’s
snakewood, whose gnarled and knotted
trunk might be anything up to Sin. thick
and 30ft. long, but never more than 2ft.
or 3ft. off the ground. In fact, it grows
mostly along the ground, writhing, twist-
ing and turning back on itself, rearing
up a couple of feet and plunging
to earth again. Hard as the hobs
of hell, it burns to solid chunks of glow-
ing coals, red-hqt right through, and
holding the original shape of the log
until it falls to grey ash. If he chucks on
a log last thing at night-he’ll have the best
grilling-fire he’s ever seen next morning.
The little box of timber-chips carried by
“Billy T.” will really pay dividends if
he takes it up to the treeless down on
N.Q.’s Flinders River, where the nearest
scrubby, stunted tree might be 10 or 12
miles away. That’s where the musterers
on the dinner-camp scour the area around
the fire for old bones, kangaroo- and
horse-dung, dried sticks of pea-bush and
handfuls of Flinders-grass. They then
sit for half-an-hour over a quart-pot that
stubbornly refuses to get past the stage
of bubbles at the sides, till at last, in
desperation, they throw in the tea and
drink a half-cold, half-brewed mess, or
in a fury of frustration kick the quart-
pot and the fire to glory and wash down
the corned-beef and damper with cold
water from the bore-drain.
“Kurnai”: With regard to the naming
of Buchan (B. 11/3/’53), the late Dr.
A. ,W. Howitt, an authority on the
Kumai tribes of Gippsland, mentioned in
his Native Tribes of South-East Aus-
tralia that it was originally Bukkan-
munji, being the native name for the bag
in which the Kurnai tribe carried
various articles. Bu.kkan-munji literally
means “bag there,” or “the place of
the bag.” Dr. Howitt gleaned his in-
formation from the Gippsland blacks of
the ’sixties and ’seventies, who, though
they had “come in,” and accepted white
men’s ways, were the last generation of
Gippsland blacks to remember and
practise their ancient customs. It prob-
ably degenerated into Buchan through
the agency of some Scottish settler.
* * * »
“Eurimburra”: A first-offender, old
Jim was shocked when the Beak soaked'
him 15 quid for having rabbits on his
property. Outside the court he spotted
the rabbit-inspector talking to Bill Mc-
Ginnis, chairman of the P.P. Board,
which had authorised the prosecution.
“A nice cow you are,” he opened up,
“soolin’ these blokes on to me. What
about your own joint?” “Never mind
that,” replied Bill. “My joint’s all right,”
“Yair? Ain’t that your grandfather
that’s buried just inside your western
fence?” “Yes, why?” “Well,” said Jim,
“you’d better start salvagin’ operations
soon or there’ll be nothing left of him—
the rabbits are so thick there they’ve
nearly got him dug up! ”
* • * *
“A.L.D.”: Duck-netting (B. 25/2/’53)
has been practised in England’s East
Anglia since the 17th century. Sir
William Wodehouse established the first
decoy-pond at Winterton, Norfolk, hav-
ing borrowed the idea from the Dutch,
who had got it from the Japs. A cen-
tury ago there were more than 60 decoy-
ponds in East Anglia. The return from
some of these exceeded the rent of a
900-acre farm. By the mid-1930’s the
number had dwindled to about a dozen.
The average number of wildfowl taken
at the decoy-pond at Orwell Park in
Suffolk in the 20th century has been 7000,
but in the winter of 1918 the tally rose
to 10,000. East Anglian practice, as
described by Wentworth Day in his
Sporting Adventure, differs in certain
particulars from the Japanese method wit-
nessed by Stephen Kelen. A little dog,
generally reddish in color, to imitate the
fox, is used. , His job is to draw the
ducks up a “pipe,” as the channels that
run from the decoy-pond are termed.
Wild ducks when on water will mob
their hereditary enemy the fox. The
piper, as the dog is called, appears and
disappears at intervals along the path at
the side of the pipe, jumping over screens
of reed. The ducks have previously been
enticed into the pipe by a man concealed
in the reeds at its mouth, who, giving a
shrill whistle, throws grain on the water.
Hearing their feeding-call the decoys swim
into the pipe, followed by their wild
companions. When the dog has drawn
them beyond a bend in the pipe one of
the decoy men suddenly appears in their
rear. Up they go, but they can’t go far,
as the pipe has a netted roof. The birds
are forced forward till they come to the
end of the water. Here a long tunnel-
net is stretched on the ground, and into
this they pour. The end attached to the
pipe hood is disconnected and dropped
behind them. Special laws, stringent in
their penalties, were passed to protect
duck-decoys. Wentworth Day said they
were still valid when he wrote. One
prohibited the firing of a gun within a
quarter of a mile of a duck-decoy.
Charles II had a duck-decoy on the Island
in St. James’s Park.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Outback memorials (B.
18/3/’53)? Those in the N.T. vary
according to localities and circumstances.
There is a little cemetery at the
abandoned Daly River coppermine; the
headstones are variously-shaped slabs
taken from the mine, with a cross cut
near the top of each stone; the inscrip-
tions are as easily decipherable today as
they were when first cut. One that sticks
in my memory is that of “T. Schollert,
Mured by Blacks, Sept. 26, 1884.” From
the same mine one Nuttenius, making his
way to Adelaide River, also fell to the
blackman’s spears at a billabong which
now bears his name. At Roper Bar, H.
Johnston was also the victim of spears.
His memorial is a 6ft. lopped tree-trunk,
split vertically to within Ift. from the
earth. The inscription was cut on the
bare flat surface left standing. It was
still legible a few years ago—he died
on June 2, 1875 —but the trunk was dis-
integrating, and it will probably go with
the next floods.
DESERT MOUNTAIN
(“Karinye” is the aboriginal name for Central
Mt. Wedge, Centralia.)
Pale blue with day’s dawning, blood-red at
its noon,
Silvered at night by the rays of the moon.
Glare the wild craggy faces of gaunt Karinye.
The curlew is wailing ’midst samphire near by,
A buk-buk owl hoots and the gnarled oak-
trees sigh
When east winds come sweeping by gaunt
Karinye.
The honey-ants gather where dog-wood bush
blooms,
And over the salt-marsh a lone emu booms
At the glow of a campfire by gaunt Karinye;
Where close by Mumalba a black-man is keep-
ing
His watch by the spring where his family is
sleeping—
He chants of the Dreamtime by gaunt Karinye.
n.t,
W.E. HARNEY.
HEYERDAHL NOTIONS
The genealogy invented for the Poly-
nesians by Heyerdahl is, as H. A. Lind-
say says (B. 11/2/’53), a “mare’s-nest.”
If Heyerdahl had had the gumption,
when he landed on Raroia Island, to ask
the Polynesian inhabitants for a recital
of their genealogy, they would have sup-
plied it; there wouldn’t have been the
slightest need, from the standpoint of
anthropology at least, to invent one for
them.
The people with a Stone Age culture
whom the Europeans found occupying
the Pacific area, from Hawaii to Easter
Island and down to New Zealand (and
as far west as Ontong, Java), were unani-
mous in asserting that their ancestors
came from the west—from the great land
Vrihia, where the staple diet was a sap-
less white food, “ari,” which is the
Dravidian word for rice. At various
times expeditions have left the Marquesas
to seek the ancient homeland in the west.
There is much evidence that the kumera
was known in the western Polynesian area
before it was in the east; whereas the
American-origin theory postulates the
reverse. Elsdon Best, the authority on
Maori subjects, was able to show that
“kumala” was an Indian word for an
edible lily-root. The coconut is found
from the Seychelles to the Pacific coast
of America ; and Candolle asserts that in
Sanskrit there were several words to
describe it; from which he deduces that
it must have been known in south-middle
Asia 2000-3000 b.c. "Phe breadfruit is
Malayan in habitat and has been culti-
vated for so long that it has almost
ceased to be seed-bearing and is propa-
gated by suckers (the banana has about
reached the same stage). As only the
sucker-propagated varieties are found
east of Fiji it is plain that the bread-
fruit never came to the Polynesian area
from America.
Anyway, if it is feasible for people to
come from South America to the Pacific
islands the reverse is just as likely. T. C.
Johnston elaborated a theory that the
Phoenicians were crossing the Pacific for
300 years from about 1000 b.c. Again,
there may not be much evidence for
Heyerdahl’s assumption that the North
American Indians peopled the South
Americas; if they did they must have
by-passed the Mexican isthmus, for ex-
tended efforts by Harvard expeditions to
track any such land-movement has drawn
blank, but revealed that another type
of civilisation cut clean across the route.
It is obvious that there are several
races in South America. Likewise, it is
extremely probable that the Incan ruling
caste was black Indian from Asia.
Maori wood-carvings always exhibit a
three-fingered hand; it does not appear
on any Red Indian carvings, but metal
statuettes have been unearthed in the
Ural mountain regions showing the iden-
tical characteristic.
T.W. (N.Z.).


9#
perfectly synchronised to give you
shaving smoother than you've ever
thought possible. Two twin blades
glide easily, smoothly over your
face and make shaving a real
pleasure. 240 volt A.C./D.C.
//
\
/ / //
'n
o.
%
\
// / . \
// //. \
// /// / - \
't/// / / !, \
:////////, \
. !'t 11 /11 t!. \
f 111 /11 /! , \
/ / / / / / ////. \
/ >/, //////////. \
'///ft//if, \
ft / //.. '///)! , ft/ \
0' fHJt*lf, ////r\ ■
>K f i fifi i\ .
... the latest addition to the fatnOuk Viceroy
Electric Dry Shavers ... the
instruments that are designed to
smooth , efficient service.
e
v
\
uni'
Housed in a handsome, grained leather pre-
sentation case with rich, red silk and plush
linings, the TWIN FOUR makes a gift all men
applaud. Choose a TWIN FOUR now as your
faithful companion or for that special occasion
gift.
70/83.49
ROLLS RAZOR
&ne d/adz Uzjf&i
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O’SUUJVAN
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Selective Investment
With the 4i p.c. Common-
wealth cash-and-conversion loan
on the market, and income-tax
assessments arriving, the share-
market remains quiet, with
prices tending downward.
Though wool sales indicated
’firming prices, and the wheat
harvest of 193 million bushels —
largely the result of a record
yield per acre —suggested a
bumper income in the wheat-
growing districts, investors on the
Stock Exchanges continued to
be selective in their buying
before Easter, especially as there
have been wide differences in the
trading results of various types
of industry.
Those subject to overseas
competition—such as Australian
Paper Manufacturers and Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper—are still
finding sales hard to increase.
Australasian Paper and Pulp has
passed its interim dividend for
the first time since the depression.
And the textile industry, on the
whole, is still up against it, more
especially the woollen section.
Output of blankets, for example,
is far below the level of last,
year (which was not good).
Worsted cloth is being made at
about the same rate as it was 12
month? ago. Women’s stockings
and men’s hosiery, on the other
hand, are selling well. Footwear-
production is down, and output
of rtien’s shirts and pyjamas is
considerably lower. Confec-
tionery sales have dropped, and
so has output of ice-cream.
Activity in motor-tyres has
slumped.
Output of most basic products,
on the other hand, continues to
expand. And Toohey’s has
returned to an 8 p.c. div. basis,
a fact noted with due apprecia-
tion by Stock Exchange fol-
lowers. Thus the sharemarket
exhibits a slight swell rather than
a definite sea, but the tide is
generally on the ebb, even if to
a very small degree.
With the Senate elections in
prospect the political situation
will tend to become obscure, and
with the investment situation
similarly hard to forecast. But,
given a continuance of free-
enterprise government, with a
natural easing of taxation as
production goes higher and costs
go lower, it would be quite
logical to expect a strengthen-
ing in the profits of most
efficient industries during the
next year or two. More parti-
cularly if costs can be reduced
to the point where the building
industry develops an impetus of
its own accord.
Moina Tungsten Tin
Most of the details concern-
ing the recent flotation of
Moina Tungsten-Tin " Mining
Co., N.L., were given in B.
11/ 2/’53. The scrip (under-
written) has been on offer to the
various parties concerned, and
the issue closed on March 30
in respect of applications by
Moina Syndicate shareholders,
and will close on April 10 for
general applications,
Moina Syndicate shareholders
are to get 150 fully-paid ss.
shares in the present co. for
every syndicate share (189,900
ss. shares altogether), and 400
additional shares (per syndicate
share) are reserved for cash
application (506,400 shares). The
public is being offered 303,700
shares at par. A cash payment
of £8525 also goes to the Moina
Syndicate, Out of the total issue
of £250,000 (1,000,000 ss. shares),
it is expected that there will re-
main £183,450 to cover plant-
installation and working capital.
There is a good deal of geo-
logical evidence of ore reserves,
but the mine has yet to be fully
developed and proved. Its record
as a producer in times when
metal prices were much lower
"I don't really like asking for more money, sir — it's
just one of those odd ideas of the wife's."
was a good one. Over five years
the average percentage of con-
centrates recovered was 1.8 p.c.
(compared with . 2 p.c. at Aber-
foyle). The ratio of tin to wol-
fram concentrates is two to one.
It is anticipated that a through-
put of 12,000 tons will be quickly
achieved. The ultimate rate of
output will be determined by
the outcome of exploratory work
based on geological possibilities.
Wolfram prices haye weakened
over the past six months, but tin
prices have held fairly well. At
present quotations 1.8 p.c.
recoveries (both metals) would
be worth about £l7 a ton of ore.
As a mining proposition the
venture holds promise, and it is
in good hands. On the board
are C. Loftus-Hills, mining
engineer ; T. Hytten, Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University of Tas-
mania ; G. F. Jakins, ex-super-
intendent, Mt. Lyell mine;
S. S. B. Purves, managing-direc-
tor, Goliath Cement ; and Nor-
man Taylor, formerly managing-
director, ICIANZ.
Price-control in Maoriland
Tudor “star - chamber”
methods have a modern parallel
in the price-control system
which is the worst feature of
bureaucratic power in New Zea-
land. For more than 13 years
the Price Tribunal, and more
recently its subsidiary, the Price-
control Division, have been a
price-dictatorship, responsible to
no one for their decisions and
indifferent to appeals and pro-
tests of business firms and
organisations.
' Clothed with autocratic
powers, these authorities can do
what they like in their field, and
even the Government seems un-
able to discipline them. Behind
closed doors they hatch out de-
cisions which ignore the rights
of industrialists and traders,
cripple enterprise, undermine
efficiency, inflate costs and prices
and bar the way to a return to a
free economy, which is greatly
needed in N.Z. today. If official
incompetence exists it can’t be
called to account; there is no
effective external check.
With so many objectionable
features, price-control has long
ranked as the most unpopular of
all controls in N.Z., above all
since the swing from a seller’s to
a buyer’s market, which put an
end to easy profits for happy-go-
lucky traders and manufacturers.
Where prices have fallen com-
petition has brought the change,
mainly as a result of last year’s
import boom, but price-control
is still holding on over a con-
siderable part of the competitive
field.
In the distributing trades one
price rules for one product. This
was moderately tolerable before
competition entered the ring, but
today restraints which get in the
way of traders are a thorn in
their sides. Price-fixing for
manufacturers has always oper-
ated on the thoroughly bad
principle that every firm must be
dealt with 'separately, and in
practice has been undisguised
profit-control. The cost-plus
system followed penalises effi-
cient firms and rewards the
inefficient, while the unscru-
pulous plot to outwit price-
control by faking costs at
every move. In the end the
public pays as all worth-while
industry frets in the bonds of
tight control.
Empire Development
The Commonwealth Develop-
ment Finance Co., Ltd., has
been registered in London. It is
a consequence of the decision
at the Commonwealth economic
conference last December to
help strengthen the sterling
area’s balance of payments.
The capital of £l5 million has
been subscribed, as to £8,250,000,
by leading industrial, commer-
cial, mining, shipping and
finance concerns, and as to
£6,750,000, by the Bank of Eng-
land. Only 10 p.c. of the capital
will be called up immediately,
but the co. may borrow up to
twice its issued capital.
The C.D.F. Co. proposes to
investigate and sponsor sound
projects in the Dominions and
British colonies in order to en-
courage investment from hard-
currency countries.
Directors are Sir Frederick
Godber (Shell Oil), R. E. Flem-
ing (merchant banker), Sir
Geoffrey Heyworth (Lever
Bros.), H. C. B. Mynors (Bank
of England), Sir Edward Peacock
(of Barings’, merchant bankers).
Sir Robert Sinclair (Imperial
Tobacco), I. A. R. Stedeford
(Tub© Investments), and Sir
Ernest Oppenheimer (South
African gold and diamond man).
Lord Bailfieu’s name does not
appear in the list.
Bradford-Burlington
The acquisition by Bradford
Cotton Mills of the U.S. spon-
soring co.’s interest in Burlington
Mills (Aust.), Ltd., which
amounted to 233,000 £1 ord.
Burlington shares, represents a
tightening of an already-estab-
lished relationship between the
two Australian cos. Bradford
has given 116,500 of its
own £1 ords., which repre-
sents about 4j p.c. of its own
ord. capital (£2,600,000) in ex-
change for 33 p.c. of the Bur-
lington ord. issue (total £700,000).
Now J. B. Were and Son, Mel-
bourne, have placed (on behalf
of Burlington, U.S.A.) with their
clients the Bradford shares at
335. 7d. as against the 365.
offered on the market for Brad-
ford ords.
Burlington pioneered the
Rutherford (northern N.S.W.)
district as a textile-manufactur-
ing area. Bradford Cotton and
Courtaulds have also set up plant
in the Hunter River district.
Burlington weaves rayon fabrics
along lines developed by the
Burlington (U.S.A.) co., and the
latter’s technical advice will still
be available.


. vm\
£^S
fer
nte r -
*»
*.*£T?:
rTmiTrOR j U M
s
s>:fc
3S
/ .
, \
V
ToP"i["
< =*=sST
>*
-I'.—V
3»
~4V
m
Nl
«W«IM
*Bl m
Esi
: i- >
mm.
<m /»
nth*
'"••t
mM
>
m
utr***
k »,
CUjgfe»:
i
■<*&/
Tarn to the Team
you can Trust!
it
■W\
What quality does to-day’s motorist want most
from his service station? It’s trustworthiness! He
wants to know, with certainty, that his car has been
serviced correctly and thoroughly —by depends
able and qualified men.
That’s why so many are turning to the Atlantic
Solo Stations with their fully-trained staffs and
itheir new code of service the team you can trust.
And remember —* their work is backed-up by
quality petroleum products made by the world’s
oldest and largest refiners and still unsurpassed!
ATLANTIC
for
"44appij Uloteimcj rr
m
“ I
fS&Shon;i
' I
ATLANTIC CJVION OIL COMPANY LIMITED
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Does the average citizen,
normally responsible and right-
minded at work and at home,
know what is best for him?
When pressed hard by opposing
political forces will he make an
objective decision, based upon the
long view and the harder road
or will he fall for the immediate
cosiness of the primrose path
even though it may involve him
in a landslide? Burning ques-
tions indeed, and not without
topicality.
In Britain this complex
problem at present is inert.
Because of a welter of influ-
ences, mainly but not wholly
fortuitous, the political scene is
stable and the electorate quiet.
But the efficacy of Parliamentary
democracy is still an unknown
and fickle quantity.
One well - known political
economist contends that a system
which can be swayed by a
ridiculously small and wayward
“floating” vote is dangerously
inadequate for the world of to-
day. He believes that some form
of enlightened suffrage would
better serve the nation a
franchise that might, for
example, depend upon academic
or business qualification. The
learned gentleman nTay be right,
or equally he may be misguided,
but on practical grounds any
alteration, particularly a restric-
tive one, to the franchise is out
of the question.
The danger in Britain, of
course, is that the voters are so
nearly half-and-half that, in
theory, Governments of oppos-
ing color may follow each other
in and out of office with the
precision of a revolving door.
But there are other factors in
Mr. Churchill’s favor. The first
and by far the most vital is Mr.
Bevan, or, rather, what he stands
for. There is, quite simply, no
alternative Government avail-
able because of the cleavage and
mutual distrust inside the Labor
party. Schisms mean more to
an electorate than -isms.
Another is the more placid
and sobersided House of
Commons. M.P.s have begun,
to realise that their childish be-
havior and unseemly brawling
has upset their constituents ; and
the strain of constant attendance,
aggravated by late-night sittings,
is wearing them down. Frayed
nerves may provoke tempers, but
weary bodies, especially when
they are no longer young, are
less inclined to rush into the lists.
Finally, the Conservative Gov-
ernment is a strong one. The
very bad example set by the
other side makes it so. More-
over, the established precept that
dynamic leaders tend to surround
themselves with affirmative-
minded nonentities most
certainly does not apply to Mr.
Churchill. One after another of
his lieutenants has shown his
mastery and job-worthiness when
put to the test. The truth is that
Mr. Churchill, as a wise old
man, is content to preside and
give his able younger men their
heads.
Budget Portents
Of these, none has grown in
stature more than Mr. Butler,
who, newly returned! from
America, now faces the Budget
preparations. He must indeed
be a harassed man, for so many
forces are acting against him.
The three main tasks are always
with him. Resuscitation of the
pound would be more straight-
forward if there were no defence
programme, but it would be
almost childishly simple were
there no Welfare State to be
sustained. Flow to save money
and yet spend it too generously
at the same time?
The voices of industry and
commerce are so loud that even
Mr, Butler, not by any means
the City Tory, must pay heed to
them. Industry kicks at the
excessive-profits taxes which may
eat up as much as 75 per cent.
of earned profits and which
threaten to kill the goose that
lays the eggs. And commerce,
chiefly through the mouths of
the chairmen of the banks, chides
the Government with not prac-
tising what it preaches: that is,
by imposing stringent credit-
restrictions on others but not
upon itself.
From all sides there is an
urgent cry for a reduction in
income tax, now standing at the
penal rate of 9s. 6d. in the £.
Economists wring their hands at
the absence of thrift, pointing
out that private savings are non-
existent. They argue that the
only thrift in this country is
compulsory, mainly in contribu-
tions to pension schemes, and
that the individual investor
should be encouraged.
And all the time the same
authorities are urg i ng that the
nation > s finances should be put
intQ proper perspective. “Let us
pay t h e right price for what we
buy and know where we are,”
they say. “None of this receiv-
ing with one hand and paying
ol f t with the other _” Their view
is that the Welfare State is an
expensive inheritance and dis-
proportionately lavish. It must
be pa j d f or . Then why not more
directly than through inflated
figures for income tax, profits
taxes> purchase tax and Customs
an d excise duties?
Guilty Men at the Vic.
_ hv
p bbhc demand, as e y
t for
Julius Caesar. Why this should
be no one knows. It may be that
the assassination and the funeral
oration once enlivened the
tedium of fifth-form Eng. Lit.,
with the consequent merciless
dissection and frantic memoris-
ing of the text; or it may be just
one of the unaccountable influ-
ences peculiar to the theatre. At
all events, the Old Vic. manage-
ment does not appear to share
this enthusiasm, for its last pro-
duction was over 17 years ago.
There are many good reasons:
the cast is excessively long ; the
minor parts—and some of the
major—are unrewarding; and
the second half, after the murder
in the Capitol, is one long strain,
But the Vic., oozing true
intent, has risen valiantly to the
challenge, approaching the
project with the energy and
inspired planning of a military
operation, Hugh Hunt’s produc-
tion is intelligent, furious and
always pertinent. This is no
ambling verse-drama, punctuated
by tinny carnage. The partici-
pants really mean what they are
doing, and even the hardness of
their muscles is reflected in the
j G f their utterances.
s bent
m^ine fli e words tefl the story
a poetry suffers - a few
t P of - ed qu i e tude
. p , i •
would help. And the actors, in
their keenness to make set
speeches sound as if for the
first time of hearing, abet hun
considerably. The music with
shrieking pipes and noisy drums,
is altogether too strident and the
storm at times is overbearingly
synthetic ; but the set has an apt
decaying grandeur and the
costumes avoid any suggestion
of the Turkish bath,
The rest is characterisation,
superimposed but yet not dis-
trading. Casca (William Squire)
is affected, introspective and
malignant Douglas Campbe I s
impersonation of Julius Caesar
is a visual triumph. His ac mg
is somewhat less convincing.
here plainly is a go-getter who
bas livec l to excess, aimougn
decidedly not in me tront line,
BjP 6 and supercilious, ne aouoies
the other Casar, uctavms, to
better ettect. caul Kogers s
Cassius is a nard - oitten
academician a kind ot Roman
bellow ot All oouis wno nas
gone to the bad. Robin Bailey
pulls off a . coup de theatre by
P la ? m « Mark Anto ?J as J
nonentity whose sudden and
ummagmed oratory b(*h w:ins
the mob and gives the play its
best scene,
William Devlin (incidentally.
the 1935 Cassius) portrays a
Brutus who is not transparently
noble. Even his goodness has
something of an acquired taste
about it, and his perpetual
worried look suggests that he
mig ht to unhappy about the
company he keeps. Scarcely
surprising, for nobility is
certainly odd-man-out in this
Senatorial bunch of frustrates
and tricksters.


*'•
; mm* 2 srs
»sii
- 3HI
F£rTrt
•p •
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA.
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Have you looked over your will lately?
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some tomorrow
that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your Executor and Trustee —alone or jointly
with a relative or friend?
He will' help you provide for the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of instructing your
Solicitor to redraw your Will should then, be a simple
matter.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring BOS 77) and make an
appointment
DIRECTORS:
i. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS:
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends- N
Year, Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves.t
£ £ £ £
’47.. 463,024 50,000 5 p.c. = 271,675 470,075
Reserve adjustment, £9374 Ret .. 479,449
Added intangibles, £l5, 1 .V6 .. 404,273
From subsidiaries, £lo,doo .. 474,273
Non-trading profits, £,10,821 . . 485,094
’48.. 523,690 50,000 ? p.c. = 290,300 668,484
Added intangibles, £22,885 . . 045,649
Non-trading promts, £12,648 .. 658,297
Unexplained teduc’n res., £44,718.. 613,579
’49.. 568,693 50,000 5 p.c. = 352,800 779,472
From subsidiaries, £3390 .. . . 782,862
Deferred tax reserve, £132,615 .. 650,247
Added intangibles, £Bll2 .. .. 642,135
Net reduction reserve, £49,147.. 592,988
’50.. 881,638 50,000 5| p.c. = 439,642 985,979
Share premiums, £125,813 .. 1,111,792
Profit realisations, etc., £8440 . . 1,120,232
Add reduc’n intangibles, £117,970.. 1,238,202
To deferred tax res., £215,595 .. 1,022,607
To staff fund, £30,000 .. .. 992,607
Deb. exes., etc., w/off, £84,801 .. 907,806
Less unexp’d reductions, £188,670.. 719,136
’6l. .1,460,709 50,000 7 p.c. = 584,497 1,545,348
Share premiums, £893,750 . . 1,939,098
To deferred tax. res., £128,000 .. 1,811,098
Deb. exes, w/off. £72,280 .. .. 1,738,818
Less sundry adjustments, £76,853.. 1,661,965
'52. .1,140,164 50,000 7 p.c. = 618,257 2,133,872
‘ Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles (now £745,250).
The outlook for this 25-year-old off-
shoot of the big Imperial Chemical
Industries Co. (Eng.) and its 14 sub-
sidiaries, which are important contribu-
tors to Australia’s industrial, agricultural
and pastoral development, is still one of
expansion ; but the growth promises to
be less rapid than of recent years. To
cater for the large increase in the post-
war demand for heavy chemicals, ex-
plosives, etc., the co. has gone on adding
one unit to another, until today a whole
series of interdependent industries, em-
ploying some 6500 people, has been built
up. And now that the emphasis in public
policy is on meat- and food-production,
the team of chemists, engineers and other
scientists, etc., in the research and de-
velopment department are investigating
new products for use in the agricultural
and veterinary fields.
Over the last couple of years 4,156,000
new £1 ords. have been issued at a
premium of ss. each, and £6,000,000 of
debenture money has been gathered, one
half at 4 p.c. and the other half at
p.c. Issued capital is now £13,150,000 in
1.000. 5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 12,150,000
ords. There was still £2,362,500 of the
share-capital and £845,400 of the deben-
ture money to come in when the books
closed. Hence the chairman’s warning
that “the board has no present intention
of issuing any of the new authorised
share-capital,” which has just been lifted
to £25,000,000 by the creation of
10.000. new £1 shares.
The contraction of £320,545 in last
term’s declared profit was due to a
number of temporary and diverting fac-
tors, including reduced demand from the
textile, rubber and plastic industries, steep
rise in operating costs and writing-down
of stocks by £200,118 —this was more in
the nature of provision for contingencies
than an actual necessity.
Although some minor sections of
plant were shut down for several
months, turnover for the year in-
creased by £4,346,000 (20.2 p.c.),
reaching a record £25,846,000, the growth
occurring during the first half of the
period. The £1,140,164 of profit claimed
covered the pref. div. and 12.3 p.c. on
average ord, capital, as against 16.9, 10.4,
7.3 and 8.1 p.c, back to 1948. The div.
was kept at 7 p.c., and, of the £471,907
that remained, £72,280 was used to write-
off the cost of the last debenture issue
and £128,000 was earmarked for deferred
taxation. That left £271,627 for free
reserves, which also benefited by £393,750
of share premiums, less £76,853 of sundry
adjustments. After deducting intangibles,
these reserves stood at £2,133,872 when
the books closed.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of plant-capacity and the trade
trends already referred to:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £8,993.495 £9,496,747 £10,787.500
Debentures .. 2,250,000 5,154,600
Outside interests* 833,844 1,100,220 1,195,385
Overdraft . . 1,720,936 2,159,775 3,085,492
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . . . 2,512,690 4,003,785 3,455,596
Taxation/ etc. . . 1,259,831 1,998,123 2,109,825
Pinal div. .. 447,975 386,702 405,784
Freeholds, plant,
etc. . . . . 5,675,323 7,519,239 9,410,453
Stocks . . . . 6,893,945 9,842,878 13,831,403
Debtors .. 2,948,217 4,253,368 3,878,306
Investments .. 1,208,198 1,206,718 1,246,054
Cash . . . . 28,567 118,497 21,838
Intangibles . . 868,180 750,210 745,250
* Including proportion reserves.
To help meet net additions of £1,891,214
to fixed assets and £3,988,525 to stocks
—they appear at or under cost —as well
as clip £548,189 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, shareholders put
up £1,684,503 and debenture-holders
£2,90,4,600, while £925,717 was added to
the overdraft and debtors’ balances were
reduced by £375,062.
Since the close of accounts demand for
most of the co.’s products has strength-
ened, the steep rise in wage-rates has
been arrested and import-restrictions (now
being relaxed on a selective basis) have
continued to insulate some of the co.’s
activities from overseas competition,
which emphasises the need in the public
sector of the economy to further restrain
inflationary pressures and reduce costs.
The market expresses its confidence in
management and the future of the under-
taking by pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at
355., giving an immediate return of only
4 p.c. on a 7-p.c.-div. basis. On the same
basis the 55.-paid contribs at 17s. would
yield 4.3 p.c. when fully paid. So the
investor who looks for over 5 p.c.
on his money counts on a 9 p.c.
distribution or other benefits. The prefs.
at 20s. 3d. yield 4.9 p.c. Including
uncalled and unpaid capital, net tangible
cover is £l5 ss. Bd. prefs. and 235. 6d.
ords.
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 195,970 4 p.c.= 194,400 1,570 11,120
1943. . 224,323 4i „ „ 218,700 5,623 16,743
1944.. 297,537 5J „ „ 230,850 66,687 83,480
1945.. 338,872 6 „ „ 291,600 47,272 130,702
1946.. 323,302 6 „ „ 291,600 31,702 138,104
From tax provision, etc., £38,903.. 177,007
1947.. 250,999 6 p.c. = 291,600 136,406
1948.. 144,174 5 „ „ 243,000 37,680
Loss.
1949.. 2,493 Nil 35.087
Profit.
1950.. 297,657 6 p.c. = 291,600 6,057 41,144
1951.. 14,346 1 „ ~ 48,600 6,890
1952.. 443,737 6 „ „ 291.600 152,137 159,027
At last a ray of hope has fallen across
the path of shareholders in this big and
efficiently-handled public-utility under-
taking. Not only have net earnings
made a heartening recovery and the divi-
dend been restored to the standard rate,
but the Gas Act has been amended to
provide, for the first time, for automatic
adjustment of the selling-price of gas at
i regular intervals to cover the rise and
i fall of basic costs on a basis yet to be
worked out by a board to be appointed
; by the Government. This and other
necessary reforms, including, a more
: adequate allowance for depreciation (now
1 limited to a mere 3 p.c.), have long been
advocated in these columns. It was
, Government procrastination in adjusting
i the selling-price of gas to offset the effects
s of spiralling costs that was responsible
I for the recent collapse of net earnings,
i dividends and the market price of the
, scrip.
Also, in its constant war against costs.
the management is investigating new
methods of gas-production. Most
promising of these is the Lurgi process
for complete gasification of low-grade
coals, which would reduce the co ’s de-
pendence upon a decreasing supply of
dear and high-grade coal from the
Northern N. S. Wales field. “If our
expectations are confirmed,” the chair-
man says, “consideration must be given
to the possibility of erecting a Lurgi
plant on the Western or other suitable
coalfields [in N.S.W.] and reticulation
of the gas to Sydney.” Though it is too
early yet to say definitely what capital
outlay would be involved, and what sav-
ings in production costs could be ex-
pected, the board thinks the new process
is “a particularly attractive proposition.”
For the heartening improvement of
£429,391 in last term’s net earnings share-
holders can thank (1) the management
for economies following installation of
new plant and equipment which “cur-
tailed operating exes, considerably,” (2)
adjustment of controlled selling-prices,
(3) continued expansion of the undertak-
ing and therefore of unit sales of gas
and residuals, and (4) the levelling of
wage-rates toward the close of accounts.
Here are revenue and expenditure figures:
1951. 1952.
Gas £5,649,526 £7-,678,370
Residuals .. . . .. 654,090 1,003,847
Meter rents, etc. .. .. 47,287 52,970
Total £6,351,503 £8,735,187
Manufac. and dis. expenses.. 5,440,553 6,811,393
Other charges .. .. 398,278 867,486
Interest 218,54,0 -276,747
Depreciation, etc. .. .. 279,786 335,824
Total outgo .. .. £6,337,157 £8,291,450
The net result was a profit of £443,737
as against £14,346 for the previous year.
It was achieved in the face of increased
material and labor costs not covered by
the present selling-price of gas, which has
remained unaltered for most of the year.
The £443,737 was 9.1 p.c. on the
£4,680,000 of share capital, and the div.
was lifted from 1 p.c. to 6 p.c., leaving
half a year’s div. at the standard rate —
the maximum amount now allowed by
the amended Act —to put to reserves.
For the five preceding years net earnings
averaged £140,936, or 2.9 p.c. on capital,
and reserves were tapped for £170,117,
reducing them almost to vanishing-point,
in order to pay divs. averaging 3.6 p.c.
It is not surprising therefore that the
scrip has long stood at a discount in the
market. Since continued growth of the
undertaking is essential in the public
interest, the co. has been forced to finance
its inevitable expansion by the issue of
debentures, and, with things as they are,
the process looks like continuing. The
co. cannot offer new shares at a discount,
and since they must be sold at auction
existing shareholders would derive no
benefit from a new issue. Also, at the
present level of company-tax, a profit of
£lB2 has to be earned for every £lOO
paid in dividends, whereas only £lOO need
be netted to pay an equivalent sum in
debenture interest, which is an expense
chargeable before co. tax is levied. At
Dec. 31 last the debenture capital totalled
£6,678,000 (up £900,000), of which
£5,528,000 carried interest at £4 p.c. and
the balance at £4 12s. 6d. p.c. A further
£1,000,000 of 5 p.c. debentures has been
issued since the close of accounts, making
the ratio of debenture to share capital
60 ; 40.
Last term £1,482,243 net was added to
fixed assets (£11,543,839), £63,244 to
stocks (£919,341) and £365,744 to book-
debts (£2,002,552). To meet the outlay
the debenture debt was increased by the
sum already stated and the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc.
(£1,928,708), was increased by £531,068.
During 1952 the market for the f.-p. £1
shares rose steadily from 12s. 9d. in
February to 18s. in December, and has
remained fairly steady since. TTie return
at 18s, is 6.5 p.c. on a standard 6 p.c.
div, basis. It is a sad commentary on
the damage done to a trustee security by
a Socialist Government.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends——^
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 4 p.c. serves, senes.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6,600 4,865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6,600 7,873 25,598
5 p.c.
1945.. 22,771 2080 4500 8,250 7,941 33,539
6 p.c.
1946.. 25,443 2082 4500 9,900 8,962 42,500
From tax reserve, £5OOO .. .. 47,500
74 p.c.
1947.. 33,737 2082 4500 13,062 14,093 61,593
8J p.c.
1948.. 39,088 2082- 4500 21,816 10,690 72,283
1949.. 44,829 2081 4500 28,050 10,198 82,481
Asset revaluation, £80,798 .. .. 163,279
10 p.c.
1950.. 58,645 2082 4500 37,400 14,663 177,942
Taxes paid, £8450 .. .. .. 169,492
June,
1951 f. 39,843 1041 2250 23,100 13,452 182,944
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 206,694
From tax reserve, £10,900 .. .. 217,594
10 p.c.
1952.. 61,566 2082 4500 48,636 6,338 223,932
* After deducting goodwill ( £10,000). t Six months.
For last term’s satisfactory trading
result and repetition of the 10 p.c. div.
—generous in the circumstances —the
management and shareholders can largely
thank the Government for its action in
restricting imports and the co.’s bankers
for assistance in carrying a heavy load
of stocks. More encouraging is the fact
that, since the close of accounts, the
management has been able to work down
stocks and reduce the overdraft without
mishap, thanks to a number of stabilising
influences, including continuance of
import-restrictions, growth of export
income, small amount of unemployment
and easing of the rate of increase in
wage-rates.
The co. specialises in manufacture of
shirts, pyjamas, collars, etc. —including
some world-famous overseas brands made
under licence —which are turned out
from 11 factories, of which eight are in
Victoria, two in Queensland and one in
N. S. Wales. In a sheltered and expand-
ing post-war market the story has been
one of expansion, to help finance which
£132,000 of fresh ord. capital was
gathered at par in 1950. And during the
half-year to mid-1951 two shirt- and
pyjama-making businesses Triumph
Shirt Co. Pty. and Graham Burgin Pty:
—were bought at a total cost of £143,670,
of which £72,420 was cash and the
balance f.-p. 10s. shares issued at a
premium of ss. each. The div., which
had climbed by halting steps from 3 p.c.
in 1942 to p.c. in 1948, was raised to
10 p.c. in 1950 and has remained steady
since, though the 10 p.c. is by no means
secure.
About 90 p.c. of the co.’s chief raw
materials (shirtings) is imported from the
U.K., and there used to be a lag of a year
or more between ordering and delivery
dates. Then came the now-familiar spate
of imports, accompanied by a small
degree of consumer resistance and falling-
off of wholesale orders toward the close
of accounts. The growth in Pelaco’s
stocks (in at cost or under) was
£1,224,323, and the contraction in
debtors’ balances was £188,841. To help
meet the difference the co. went to its
bankers for an £842,416 and added
£79,563 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors:
Dec., Dec., June, June,
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £409,736 £541,736 £541,736 £589,236
Mortgage .. 149,250 147,750 144,750
Overdraft . . 320,617 117,194 959,610
Sundry
creditors . . 161,575 305,804 648.281 727,844
Tax provision 56,393 69,646 98,107 147,769
Final divs. . . 31,341 40,691 26,391 51,927
Premises . . 94,052 174,134 174,969 201,946
Plant, etc. . . 61,812 61,662 72,102 101,057
Shares subs’dy 143,670 143,670
Stock . . 651,920 652.232 948,592 2,172,915
Book debts . . 254,204 317,888 409,972 221,181
Cash, etc. .. 55 79,053 13,097 4.347
When the books closed there was 445, 6d.
of outside money in the business for
every £1 belonging to shareholders. The
position has improved since, as already


Tender
HOTEL FREEHOLD, PARRAMATTA.
Estate of ELIZA JENKINS, deceased.
Tenders are invited and will be received
at the Office of THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, until 12 noon
on Tuesday, 14th April, 1953, for the
purchase of the freehold of the
RAILWAY HOTEL, PARRAMATTA.
The hotel is a two-storey brick structure
containing eight public bedrooms. The
sale is subject to the existing Lease
expiring on 19th July, 1955, and the
License Fee paid in 1951 was £llB9.
The licensed premises are subject to an
Application under Section 40a of the
Liquor Act. Full particulars may be
obtained from The Public Trustee, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and the draft
contract of sale and all relevant docu-
ments may be inspected at the Public
Trust Office. The title to the property
is under the Old System and the purchase
money will be payable in cash on com-
pletion of the sale. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted. No com-
mission or brokerage will be paid by the
Vendor to any Agent or Broker. Tenders
will not be considered unless in the form
provided and tenders must be accompanitkl
by a bank cheque in favour of the Public
Trustee or order for a deposit of 10% of
the purchase price offered plus exchange
which will in the case of unsuccessful
tenderers be returned.
Tender forms may be obtained from The
Public Trustee or from the undersigned.
—F. W. TODHUNTER & SON, Solicitors,
18 George Street, Parramatta.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
STATE
Under
GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. 3. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
&mms
TRADE MARK I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
0 During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
* DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
* 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
r^rr
& p-
flS#
IiMA
pH*
ii
T |C A
S CIA
RlflS
NE y
iiiiim
AC°
I.UMO
jtjiSJ
Sil
gcrttf*
RtLlft
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIN
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Doldn
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 7552,
GAO., Sydney.
D 4.1
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, .Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * •
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited, (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone; BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Each mind forms its own standards. What is
marvellous to one may seem less wonderful to another.
To me, one of the remarkable features of
Australia is the Channel Country of south-west
Queensland. You have hearS of it, read of it; but
do you realise to what it points in the future of every
one of us?
Here is -a great province, larger in area than some
European States. Usually it has a sparse rainfall and
carries a limited number of cattle.
Then comes a wet season, and because of the
meeting of big inland rivers, millions of acres of fiat
country are flooded by the breaking of streams that
widen to as far as 40 miles.
In the wake of the flood comes that springing of
lush grass which is one of the recurrent miracles of
the inland.
Every flood year in April, after the Diamantina
and Cooper’s Creek have burst and subsided, store
cattle begin the long drove in from the Northern
Territory, or down from higher Queensland.
Twelve or more weeks on the road —drovers tired
—the cattle lean and weakened from the long overland
march. But at the end, good, green pastures. The
Channel lands stay green for months after the rain.
It's “rest and fatten” there.
The Queensland Government appointed experts
to report on the value of staging through these Channel
lands to raise the production of beef. And this is what
it reported:' Average annual turn-off of cattle from
the whole of the Channel lands along the Cooper,
Thomson, Bulloo, Georgina and Diamantina Rivers
could be raised fourfold —from 42,000 to 170,000 or
more if there were the transport facilities to handle
them. Properties on Cooper’s Creek alone could
increase their annual average from 20,000 fats to more
than 80,000.
Distance from railheads —150 to 350 miles away
—has been the drawback. But the Commonwealth and
State Governments are well on with the building of
roads to speed deliveries by road train to rail terminals
in Queensland, and down into northern New South
Wales.
What interests me about the Channel Country is
that it bears out in a natural way a plan of my own
for breeding beef and helping Australia in its
desperately-needed increase in beef production by
bringing more fat cattle from a chain of watered
pastures to the coast: as we are now doing from our
cattle property f at Alice Springs to Adelaide.
' I have faith in Australia’s ability to produce aft
the beef we require for home consumption and for
export in the years ahead. But in doing it we will have
to transport our cattle wealth from the interior to the
markets of Australia and the world.
~/V. /VaS/wyS
B-9
stated, but to what extent has
not been publicly disclosed.
Converting profit figures for
the 18 months to June 30, 1951,
on to an annual basis, last term’s
net result, helped by returns from
the newly-acquired subsidiaries,
was only £4094 lighter at
£61,556 —a. surprisingly good
showing considering conditions
in the trade S and the trend of
costs. But there was more capital
to feed. The £61,556 covered
the pref. divs. and 11.3 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against
14.8, 13.9, 11.6, 13, 15.6 and
11.4 p.c. back to 1946. After
payment of the 10 p.c. div,
£6348 remained for reserves,
which also benefited by £23,750
of share premiums and £10,900
previously overprovided for
taxation, raising them to
£223,932, after deducting good-
will (£10,000).
As for the current term, trade
remained sticky for the first
quarter, improved considerably
in the second and settled on a
fairly even keel during the third,
when the spiralling basic-wage
rate also lost a lot of its former
sting. Meanwhile, there has been
a slight recession in overseas
cotton-textile prices, which now
appear to have firmed. Much
depends upon whether last June’s
stock-valuation provided suf-
ficient margin to cushion the
bump.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. 10s.
ords,, which fell from 15s, to
9s. 9d. during 1952, stood at
12s. 9d. last week, giving a return
of 7.8 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues. The A
and B prefs. at 255. Id. and 275.
yield 5.6 p.c. and 6.6 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover is
£27 6s. lid. A’s, £l5 13s. 4d.
B’s and 14s, 4d. ords.
R. H. Gordon (Sydney)
Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. seizes.
1944.. 18,165 13Jp.c. = 19,400 1 IQQ „ 08
To staff fund. £5OO .. j 199,208
From tax reserve, £340 .. 199,648
1945.. 21,335 15 p.c. = 21.825 1 198 308
To staff fund, £750 .-. J ’
1946.. 33,114 18j p.c. 26,675 | 0(19 747
To staff fund, £lOOO .. K uo, ‘
1947. . 33,430 18J p.c. = 26,675 ( 209 502
To staff fund, £lOOO .. | ,ou
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 29,100 \ 91fi 202
To staff fund, £l5OO .. f ’
1949.. 34,672 20 p.c. = 29,100 I 99ft 27 ,
To staff fund, £l5OO .
1950.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 1 ~,
To staff fund, £2OOO .. )
Asset revaluation reserve,
£47,250 . . . . 279,650
Bonus share issue, £47,250 232,400
1951.. 36,918 16f p.c. = 32,313 1 285 not;
To staff fund, £2OOO . . j 286,006
1952.. 25,444 13J p.c. = 25,900 I
To staff fund, £l5OO . . J 288,049
Since the public became
interested back in 1909,
Gordon’s has handed out
£307,450 of bonus-scrip and
returned £223,333 of its share
capital. Richest period was the
eight years to 1926, when
£222,400 of the bonus-scrip was
scattered. The last gift (£47,250)
was a one-for-three issue early
in 1951, and he would be a bold
man who would venture to sug-
gest when the next gift might
be made.
However, the co. is still a
good profit-earner and dividend-
payer, with strong reserves, a
sound financial structure and a
cautious and experienced
management. Today the bulk of
the trade —the co. grew up in
the cash-order field, where it now
enjoys a hand-picked connection
—is in furniture, furnishing-
drapery, crockery and other
household goods. And much of
it is done on a t.-p. basis.
Last term the slackening of
activity in the building trade, and
heavy imports of furnishings,
crockery, etc., reduced turnover,
sharpened competition and
narrowed profit margins, while
costs took a bigger bite out of
the attenuated takings. After
allowing something for depre-
ciation, taxation and other con-
tingencies, the board figured
profit £11,474 short of the
previous year’s at £25,444. That
was) 13.1 p.c. on capital as against
19, 29.7, 23.8, 25.6 and 22.9 p.c.
back to 1947. The div., lowered
from 20 p.c. to 16.6 p.c. follow-
ing the last issue of gift-scrip,
was dropped to 13.3 p.c., and
£l5OO was sent to the staff fund,
which might be taken as a hint
that the board is satisfied with
the outlook.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a
cautious trading policy as well
as the economic and other
developments already referred
to:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. 145,500 194,250 194,250
Sundry cred.* . 84,605 110,626 82,322
Overdraft .. 10,279 -
Staff fund .. 15,174 16,666 17,055
Pinal div. .. 16,975 16,188 12,950
Property and
plant, etc. .. 141,805 142,231 143,124
Stock .. 104,824 145,986 95,358
Hire agreements
and book debts 253,310 291,183 289,263
Shares, deben-
tures, etc. .. 23,724 3,505 3,505
Government se-
curities .. 12,300
Cash, etc. .. 5,942 110 8,377
* Including taxation.
Stocks, in at the lower of cost
or market-value, were reduced by
£50,628 and hire agreements by
£2920, while £28,304 was snipped
off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., and the overdraft
(£10,279 at the previous balance)
was wiped out.
The immediate outlook favors
a better showing at next balance
—turnover has improved since
the close of accounts, and the
inflationary element in the pay-
roll total promises to be less
troublesome, but competition
remains keen and profit-margins
narrow. Still, with reserves
heaped £38,799 higher than paid
capital, the two combined need
turn in only a shade over 6 p.c.
to show 13.3 p.c. on capital
alone.
During 1952 the price of the
f.-p. 15s. shares dropped from
545. to 335. 6d. in the market.
Last week the figure stood at
375., giving a return of 5.3 p.c.
on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 335. 6d. a share.
Following announcements of
an interim div. of Is. per f.-p. 4s.
share, payable April 17, and
treatment of 9880 short tons ore
for 32030 z. fine gold (av.
6.48dwt.) for the six weeks to
Feb. 24, Hill 50’s scrip advanced
a further 4s. in the market last
week, reaching 375. 6d. In July,
1952, the shares could be picked
up at 6s. 3d. a piece. For the
24 weeks to Feb. 24 the mill
crushed 50,250 tons ore for
15,0380 z. fine gold (av.
5.98dwt.). For the year to June
30, 1952, 52,427 tons yielded
ll,BBooz. fine gold (av. 4idwt.),
and the profit was £39,377, of
which a 9d. div. took £28,125.
Working costs were 565. lOd. a
ton. Ore reserves at June 30,
1952, were put at 150,000 tons,
averaging 5.25dwt., above the
600 ft. level. Below this level
insufficient work had been done
to make a reliable estimate of
pay ore available. What has
attracted the speculator is the
high values disclosed by two
diamond-drill holes put down to
test continuation of the lode
below the 820 ft. level. How-
ever, a lot of development work
has yet to be done before a re-
liable estimate can be made of
actual tonnage and average grade
of ore that will thus /become
available. The co. has £150,000
of capital to feed, and has paid
divs. totalling £334,000.
* * * *
North Broken Hill is investi-
gating the possibilities of the old
Whim Creek coppermine, mid-
way between Roebourne and
Port Hedland (W.A.) and about
12 miles from the coast. The
co.’s chief geologist, Q. J.
Henderson, who has been super-
vising scout-drilling in the area
for several months past, was
recently joined by general-
manager Alan West. Early in
the present century a consider-
able tonnage of oxidised ore,
averaging 12 p.c. copper, was
won at Whim Creek. Other
known copper deposits in the
nor’-west of W.A. are at Bulla
Downs, Glenroebourne and
Uaroo.


Women's Letters
MCLBCUCNC
Bewitching Irmgard Seefried, the
Viennese soprano, wore a very long
cyclamen chiffon stole with her gown of
ivory brocade when she gave her first
Town Hall recital. In the enthusiastic
audience were First-Officer Blair Bowden,
of the W.R.A.N.S., who was with singer
Ailsa McKenzie ; Mrs. Frank Tait in a
short evening frock in royal-blue
tonings ; and Mrs. Guy Bakewell, smart
in a black ensemble. The Australian
Trade Commissioner, R. Schlichter, his
wife and daughter, Mrs. I. M, Jacobsen;
Mrs, Paul Fiddian ; Mrs. Alan Michaelis ;
Mrs. John Hearle ; Mrs. Margaret Saker ;
Iris Williams and Mary Coles were also
present.
☆ ☆ ☆
While members of the Real Estate and
Stock Institute discussed weighty prob-
lems at their annual conference their
wives and daughters enjoyed the hospi-
tality and beauty-spots of the city. Mrs.
Richard Buxjon, wife of the Victorian
president, hostessed a luncheon-party in
her Brighton home, and had the assist-
ance of her mother-in-law, Mrs. Raymond
Buxton, and sister-in-law, Mrs. Douglas
Buxton. Among the guests were Mrs.
L. G. Neill, wife of Queensland’s presi-
dent, and her daughter Beverley; Ruth
and Shirley Moore, from Brisbane, whose
father is Federal president; Mrs. A.
Postle and Misses Barbara and Margot
Molloy, also from Queensland ; Mrs. W.
Duncan, Mrs. J. O. Cramer and Mrs.
W. G. Thomas, all from N.S.W.; Mrs.
H. H. Hayes, of Adelaide; Mrs. G. G.
Morley, wife of Victoria’s vice-president,
Mrs. G. Purbrick, whose husband
organised the conference, Mrs. A.
Russell and Mrs. M. Arnold.
☆. * ☆
“Such Men Are Dangerous” was the
play chosen as the drama contribution in
the National Theatre Arts Festival at the
Princess. In the first-night audience were
Mrs. J. McGauram, who allied brown
tulle and copper-sequined brown taffeta
most effectively; Mrs. Fred Fair, who
added a white-and-gold*striped stole to
formal white crepes ; Mrs. Stefan Haag,
in full-skirt of white pique and black
velvet strapless bodice; Mrs. John Cas-
son, her brown silks spotted in gold ;
Margot Henry, whose stiffened chiffon
was ice-blue ; Mrs. Earl Daum, in black
tulle; and Mrs. Henry Stebbins, who
wore with her black satins a waist-length
box-jacket of black faille.
☆ ☆ ☆
The “Mamselle” Easter Parade at
George’s was notable for charming
fashions, which included sports clothes,
everyday ensembles, cocktail- and even-
ing-gowns. The tunic-frock, so becoming
for the young, was expressed in mauve
and two shades of grey checks. With it
went a high-necked black sweater. A
volcano-grey wool skirt, very full, was
worn with a citron-yellow jumper, the
grey of the skirt being repeated in the
stole lined with citrus tone. A very attrac-
tive example of the popular separate
theme was a black jersey sweater with
the low neckline trimmed with gold and
silver braid. The skirt, which was very
full and of black felt, was embellished
with the gold and silver braid to give an
apron effect.
Porridge, a new winter-white shade
with an undertone of grey, was seen in
an angora-and-wool-mixture coat and
skirt. A black jersey frock, with the
scarf edged with white ermine tails (the
scarf could also be used as a belt), matched
the beret, also trimmed with ermine tails.
For winter parties there was a becom-
ing jade-green jersey frock with three-
quarter sleeves and gleaming gold beads
outlining the low, rounded neckline.
Most of the short evening frocks were
strapless. There was a black taffeta frock
with a lampshade-skirt, all rucked and
buttoned. A fly-away bow of lime-green
faille and a cuff of green highlighted
a full-skirted frock of black faille. A
deep cuff of pleated net was a feature of
a strapless frock of pastel-pink net, the
bodice and apron being jewelled.
Gowns for an enchanted evening were
in the grand manner. An enormous
white tulle skirt was hung with narrow
red-velvet pipings. With this went a tiny
matching red-velvet bolero with full
sleeves. Pink rosebuds were scattered
over the skirt of a dove-grey tulle frock,
with a pink-satin sash adding to the pic-
ture. Very lovely was a gown of royal-
blue tulle over green taffeta, which gave
an iridescent effect; the bodice had a
deep square neckline and wide, swathed
shoulder-straps, and it was finished with
a wide cummerbund of blue and green
paillettes. Clotted-cream was the name
given to a pale-yellow brocade gown
fashioned with a long torso, from which
fell a wide skirt of box pleats.
Attractive 16-year-old Cecilie, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Parkes.
of Toorak. has just won the Harold Elvins
Piano Scholarship at the Albert-street
Cohservatorium. Educated at Mandevilie
Hall. Cecilie, who is taking singing as
her second subject, draws and paints well,
and as a hobby weaves scarves and belts
for the family. She is fond of sport and
cooking. Photo by Broothorn.
Colored fairy-lights lit the garden,
swimming-pool and terrace for the party
given in their Toorak home by Mr. and
Mrs. George Griffiths to celebrate the
21st birthday of their daughter Carol,
who wore her parents’ presents: a pearl-
and-platinum bracelet and a dream frock
of almond-pink tulle and lace which had
moonlight sequins embroidering cap-
sleeves and belt. Mrs. Griffiths wore a
sheath-frock of pale-primrose yellow
covered entirely with silver sequins.
Carol’s American cousin, Judy Dodge,
wore a crimson silk taffeta. Other guests
included John and Nan Roark from Tas-
mania, Nan and Pam Dixon, Ann Roark,
Bambi Shmith, Andrena Thorp, Greta
Miers, Mary la Roche, Virginia Paris,
Richard Collett, David Welch and
Leonard Stone.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three of the four holders of fellow-
ships awarded by the council of the
British Memorial Fund —Dr. Madelene
Walters (nuclear physics), Dr. Peter Wildy
(virology) and Mary Thomas (agriculture)
—were guests-of-honor at a civic recep-
tion given by the Lord Mayor. The
fourth Fellow, Mr. Robert McCleery,
here to study industrial research, was
unable to be present.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. W. J. Brens,
wore a small white-trimmed navy hat
with her navy tent-coat of faille. Among
other guests were Mrs. H. Creswick in
a frock of white silk etched in black;
Mrs. Arnold Isaacson, who had a match-
ing hat for her black crepes; Mrs. L. R.
Buxton, who had a natty cinnamon-
brown straw cloche as contrast for her
grey suit; and Mrs. Gordon Coulter,
whose suit was also grey, but whose velvet
hat was black.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Maie Hoban, wearing a black
hat and cocktail-frock of wine-toned
taffeta which had a narrow gold thread,
hostessed a late-afternoon party at the
Club, at which English actor
Robert Speaight was guest-of-honor.
Assisting her mother, Denise Hoban wore
a diamente Juliet cap with her sequm-
trimmed dove-grey faille frock. At the
party were Dr.’and Mrs. James Rohan,
the John Cassons, Mrs. Pat Carney,
Tanya Eyvans (who starred in the
National Theatre’s production of “Such
Men Are Dangerous”), David Felsman
(the A.B.C.’s acting-manager) and his
wife, John Cairnes (he produces plays
for the A.B.C.) and Mrs. Cairnes, Little
Theatre producer and director Irene
Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. John Buchan,
Mrs. Boyd Flaxman and Mrs. Nelson
Wellington.
§n>NEr
How hard it is to realise that Queen
Mary is dead. Few of us can remember
a time when there was no Queen Mary,
and her changeless figure, compact of
dignity and style, seemed to ignore the
passing of time. Queen Mary had be-
come so much of a tradition in her life-
time that some Australians who had had
the honor of meeting her say they got
quite a shock because she looked “so
much like Queen Mary.” For her devo-
tion to duty and her regal bearing she
was much admired; for her sympathy,
courage and understanding she was much
loved. These things will make her a
figure of tradition in death as she was
in life,
☆ ☆ ☆
What a shame it was that the lovely
china and silverware exhibition arranged
by the Kuringai Chase Karitane Mobile
Clinic at David Jones’s Gallery could
only be held for three days! The attend-
ance, nearly 1800 each day, indicated
that the interest in these things of rare
beauty is intense in Sydney. The exhi-
bition was opened by Miss Northcott,
who wore a pink silk dress rather appro-
priately patterned in tiny white candle-
sticks and charms. Her speech was short
and charming, but during the succeeding
speeches, which went on and on, the
manners of the fashionable assembly were
not proof against the Crowding, the
humidity and the attraction of the ex-
hibits. They frankly stopped listening
and surged round talking without restraint
until the speaker couldri’t be heard at
all. By the way, a word of praise to
Stanley Lipscombe, who did all the select-
ing and cataloguing—a colossal job well
done.
☆ ☆ ☆
The social calendar has been subjected
to some hurried rearrangements during
the past week. The Royal Empire Society
has cancelled all functions until April 24,
when the period of Court mourning will
be over. The Red Cross Ball at the
Trocadero has been postponed to May 4,
and the Venetian Masked Ball of the
National Opera to April 29 at Prince’s.
Mrs. R. S. Mullette, who left for the
United States on March 26, will join her
husband in New York, where he is chief
of U.N.K.R.A. which means United
Nations' Korean Reconstruction Associa-
tion. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The standard of design in handicrafts
at the Royal Easter Show seemed rather
better this year, though there are still
some exhibits in which exquisite hand-
work went into gaudy, tasteless designs or
old-fashioned patterns that clearly dated
to the 1920’5. An original bedspread in
cream linen embroidered by Miss F.
Bell with Australian birds, each occupy-
ing a square, showed thought and style,
while the embroideries of Mrs. W. C. C.
Wright caused amazement in the on-
lookers for their beauty.
Miss N. P. Burns knitted a boy’s grey
jumper with a row of tiny black-and-
white penguins across the yoke, which
was most attractive and displayed origin-
ality and good taste; Mrs. T. P. Holt’s
cut-work cream supper cloth, which won
a first in its section, was a delight to
behold. It seems about time to omit the
embroidered dress from the catalogue,
for this section never seems to attract
anv entry that takes fashion into account.
Today’s fashionable dress-embroideries
are in braid, guipure lace, diamente,
pearls, shells, jet, etc., not in satin-stitch
and drawn-thread work.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Easter Fair, held by the Council
of Social Service of N.S.W. at the Town
Hall last Friday, 15 organisations took
part. One of the most popular stalls
was the Hat Bar arranged by the Family
Welfare Bureau, where 683 enchanting
little cocktail-hats, made by competitors
in the Easter Bonnet Competition, were
sold at very moderate prices. Maker
of the first-prize hat was Mrs. S. A.
Senior, of Strathfield, who won an air
trip to Tasmania. Second prize, a week’s
holiday at Katoomba, was won by Mrs.
H. Chester, of Belmore, and a special
prize went to Miss F. M. Dryden, of
Abbotsford. The flower-stall run by the
Kindergarten Union was also popular
with its annexe of flower arrangements
by Mrs. Ralph Thompson, Mrs. Angus
Macpherson, Mrs. T. E. Ferguson, Mrs.
Ernest Watt, Mrs. Gordon Russell and
Mrs. J. Newton, all presided over by
Mrs, Rex Money with helpers Mrs.
Neville Manning and Mrs. Pat Levy.
The Fair was opened by Edwin Styles,
who was accompanied by Mary Parker.
☆ ☆ ☆
Leading booksellers of Sydney and
newspaper people met Sir Allen Lane,
founder of the Penguin Book Company,
at a cocktail-party at the Royal Empire
Rooms on Thursday last. Sir Allen, who
may be said to have invented the Penguin
book, said he had a signed first-edition
copy of every Penguin (about 2000 in
all), and that they were slowly usurping
every inch of space in his home. He
foresaw the time, he said, when he would
have to go and camp in the garden and
let the Penguins take over the house. Sir
Allen’s t sister and brother-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. F. Bird, of Avalon, were present
at the party, also Commander Castle, of
H.M.A.S. Penguin, who had been invited
“as one Penguin to another.” Extending
the welcoming hand was Mr. R. W.
Maynard, Australian manager of the
company, assisted by Mr. and Mrs. Owen
Clayton.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Garden Club had lovely weather
for the two garden-inspections arranged
during the weekend for the benefit of
country members in town at present. On
Saturday the garden of Mr. and Mrs.
T. H. Vidler’s Roseville home was thrown
open; Mrs. Vidler’s mother, Mrs. H.
Carrington, and her two sisters Amy
and Dod Carrington, helped her to enter-
tain about 100 guests. On Sunday
members visied the home of Mr. and Mrs.
R. J. Carden, of Cheltenham. The even-
ing party which the club had arranged
for Tuesday has been postponed because
of the death of Queen Mary to May 6,
when Miss Northcott will be able to be
present.
☆ ☆ *
Miss Margaret Miller, speaking on
local public libraries at the Thursday
meeting of the English-Speaking Union,
told members that it was not only people
who could be called “bookish” • who
benefited by these libraries, but anyone
who wanted specific information at a
specific time. She herself had been asked
(and had found the answer, too) what
the dress of Scottish sailors was in the
18th century, and how to service an oil-
engine designed in 1909. The develop-
ment of the local council libraries has
been phenomenal since 1939, both in city
and country centres, said Miss Miller.
It seems as though these libraries are
destined to play the part which the
Schools of Arts played in the past.
☆ ☆ ☆
The tentative date for the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball is September 17, it was
announced at a meeting of the Relief
Fund last week. The Lady Mayoress,
who leaves shortly for England, where
she will attend the Coronation with her
husband, will be absent for about 10
weeks 'and will return on July 4. It was
also announced that the two organisations
which are nominated each year by the
Lady Mayoress to benefit from the fund
will in 1953 be the Society for Crippled
Children and the Buckingham-street
Home of Consolation for old people.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sister Frances Hiscox is president of
the committee organising the St. Vincent s
Nurses’ Annual Ball to be held at the
Trocadero next Tuesday, April 7. Help-
ing her are Marie Mclnerney, Anne
Harrison and Mary Winfield, with trea-
surers Mary West and Jill Tooher and
secretaries Patricia McGearey and Philo-
mene RvalL ————


The high Jumpers
By JOHN BALFOUR BROWN
COUNTRY show in N.S.W.,
merry-go-round wheezing
and clanking, painted
horses going up and down,
music from a cracked record of
“The Loveliest Night of the
Year.”
“That song,” Tommy Doyle
muttered. “Every damn’ place
we go they play that thing.”
“Ay,” he said, as if he ex-
pected confirmation from the
horse he was saddling in the
showground-stall.
The stall was one of twenty
in a lane behind the merry-go-
round, out of the glare, away
from the pavilion where the
farmers and the farmers’ wives
had put out their bottled peaches
and vegetables and samples of
wheat, away from the ring where
the trotters were now starting
their first race of the night, away
from the sideshows, the fairy-
floss stands ; Sharman’s boxing
troupe—“ Now, come on, sports,
where’s your local boy? We’ll
give the local boy a go”—the
Wall of Death, the Congo
Pigmies, the stands with new
cars and tractors and reapers-
and-binders and all the things
that go to make shows in Aus-
tralia a wonderful and fantastic
combination of horse-show,
fun-fair and produce-exhibition.
“Ay, stand up, there,” Tommy
said. “It was hard enough get-
ing you a stall at all, and now
you want to kick it to bits.”
He had told a trotting-driver
to clear out or get clocked.
That’s how he had got this stall.
There weren’t enough to go
round, and in the lane between
the stalls there were horses tied
to the battered trucks that had
brought them from the last show
two hundred miles away, and
would take them on to the next
one another two hundred miles
away when this one was over.
The next show was different,
though. The next show was
Royal Sydney. And Tommy had
to do well this time at Sydney or
it would be his last year on the
show circuit.
There are two main show cir-
cuits in Australia. There is the
one that starts with Melbourne
in the spring and goes on to the
little shows at places up through
Victoria and over to Adelaide ;
and then there is the one that
starts at Cairns in north Queens-
land and takes in the shows at
the towns down the coast and
northern N.S.W. But every
show-rider, whether he does the
northern or the southern circuit,
or is content to do just those
around his own locality, aims at
Sydney if he thinks he has a
chance against the hardened
troupers like Tommy Doyle.
TOMMY finished tightening
A the elastic girth and sur-
cingle on the seven-pound
steeplechase-saddle he had put
on the big white-blazed chestnut.
In the dim half-light of the
stall the horse glowed fiery-red.
Only the stamping of the horses
in the adjoining stalls and, for
some reason, the scratched
record of “The Loveliest Night
of the Year” from the merry-
go-round were audible above the
distant roar of the show.
“My heart seems to sing,”
hummed Tommy as he led
White Socks out and shut the
door. White Socks was a high-
jumper, and Tommy was a high-
jump rider. It is something that
is done in Australia and
nowhere else. Nowhere else do
riders and horses, regularly
from week to week sometimes,
jump against each other until
there is only one left. And that
horse, to win, invariably has to
jump over six feet, and some-
times, on the good grounds like
Cairns, up to eight feet and
over.
“We need the dough tonight,
Socks,” Tommy said as he
jumped up on the saddle, put his
feet in the stirrups and rode to
the gate under the stand where
the other high-jumpers were
waiting for the trotters to drive
off. It was a warm night, and
the green-and-gold silks, and
silk jockey-breeches, felt smooth
and pleasant against his skin,
It was win tonight for Tommy
and White Socks, and then in
the money at Sydney, or it was
back to the Gippsland dairy-
farm where Tommy had been
born, a father he didn’t get on
with and milking and farm-
chores.
To this slightly-built, sandy-
haired youth, gifted with bril-
liant horsemanship, the shows
were a world of magic. He
didn’t want to go back to
“young Tommy old Jack
Doyle’s kid,” instead of Tommy
Doyle, two years professional
show-rider with a record second
to only one man.
That man was Jack Mc-
Gowan. Old Jack was already
in the mounting-yard with the
other five riders. Tommy looked
them over. He knew them all by
sight, and he knew what they
could do. If there weren’t any
accidents it would be between
him and Jack tonight. There
were only two other riders on
this circuit who were in the
same class, and they had both
decided to miss this show and
wait for Sydney.
TACK McGOWAN, nearly
** fifty, wrinkled and weather-
beaten, the same weight as he
had been when he was a cross-
country jockey in Victoria
twenty years before, walked his
black pony over to Tommy.
Softly he said “We’ll split it if
there’s only the two of us, ay?”
This was what Tommy had
been dreading. He had evaded
Jack all the, day because he
knew it would come. It was the
usual thing at the smaller shows.
When the others dropped out
and there were only two or three
left they split the prize-money
to save pushing their horses up
another foot.
Tommy had never refused be-
fore. But he remembered one
show, when he hadn’t been left
in himself, but had overheard
Jack say “Sorry, boys, I need
it” ; and then he had watched
Jack push his pony up to seven
feet six inches to make a new
record for the ground and take
the two hundred pounds prize.
So now Tommy said “Sorry,
Jack, but I need it.”
Jack McGowan nodded and
walked his pony, the famous jet-
black mare, fifteen years old
with not a mark on her legs, out
through the gate and on to the
ground.
The others followed ; and be-
hind them came Tommy, sitting
slightly round-shouldered with
short stirrups, about three holes
longer than jockey-length. His
was the typical seat of the Aus-
tralian show-rider that has been
evolved over a hundred years
for its own sake and without any
influence from the Italian or the
French or any other school of
horsemanship.
Once on the ground, emerald
green under the electric-lights,
White Socks started to get rest-
less. Tommy let him canter out
in a wide circle that brought
him up to the jump before the
others, walking single-file, had
reached it. He walked White
Socks into the huge, foreboding,
impossible-looking jump and
made him stretch his head up
till his nose was touching the
bottom rail. It was five feet now.
and it would be closer to seven
before the night was over.
When Tommy had first started
high-jumping he had been
desperately afraid because he
couldn’t see over the jump.
Even now he felt his stomach
tightening in the way it always
did ; and felt his horse feeling
it, too ; getting very toey, now.
TAANGER has its attraction to
those who watch it; and,
despite their offhand manner of
talking about it, it has its attrac-
tion to those who deliberately
take hold of it and take their
chance with it. And possibly the
horses who take on the high-
jumps realise something of it,
too, because there is no way of
making a high-jumper. Either
a horse can or it can’t. And
all the schooling and exercisihg
in the world are useless unless
the hbrse has it inside.
Black Magic, Jack McGowan’s
mare, had been a rogue ; and
unbroken at five. She had been
run into a stockyard with a mob
and had cleared the five-feet
fence. She was just under fif-
teen hands, by a thoroughbred
station-sire out of a part-
thoroughbred mare. But there
was a touch of the brumby in
her somewhere. She would have
been useless at anything but
high-jumping, and she had never
been asked to do anything else.
She was a freak ; she was a mare,
but not like an ordinary mare.
Every show-jump to her was
that original stockyard-fence
that had imprisoned her so long
ago.
Tommy’s horse, White Socks,
was a different type. The big
chestnut, nearly sixteen-two, was
three-quarters thoroughbred and
a quarter Suffolk. He was won-
derfully steady once he was
jumping, but before and after he
would never keep still. Tommy
had bought him to try as a show-
hunter over hurdles, but he had
been impossible. He had been
too flighty. He kept knocking
them oyer. Tommy had given
him up, and then at a small show
had decided to have a go at the
high-jump ; and had found him-
self with a potential champion.
The higher they got the steadier
White Socks jumped. The one
run and jump at a good big jump
suited him. The twelve small
jumps spaced around the ring
with a gallop between each just
didn’t.
Tommy kept cantering White
Socks in figures-of-eight out in
the centre. The others walked
their horses round, and Jack
McGowan had Black Magic
standing by his side with a rug
thrown over her. She stood
calmly, almost half-asleep, in-
different to everything that was
going on until it was her turn.
Tommy had drawn first jump.
It was five feet, just a warm-up,
but even so he walked White
Socks in again, showed him the
jump and took him back,
bucketing and prancing, about
twenty yards. He pulled him up
and turned him.
The big horse steadied,
Tommy felt the change and gave
him one kick with his heels.
White Socks started slowly,
gathered momentum, and just
outside the jump was going at a
good steady three-quarter-pace
gallop. They sensed the take-
off together, and as White Socks
left the ground smoothly, with
a rush of power that came from
his huge haunches, Tommy went
up his neck, pivoting on his
knees, and then as he felt the
forelegs go over, the horse’s head
go way, way down, the back legs
come over in the same unruffled
flowing movement, he swung
back, let the reins slip out
through his fingers and saw the
sand for an instant very clear
and distant below; then they
were down, and White Socks was
lobbing away, his ears back and
eyes wide.
“That’s easy stuff for me, ay,”
Tommy said, pulling him up.
“Good boy, good boy.” He
patted him. White Socks was in
form.
There was applause; White
'Socks was well known and
always got a good hand. But
for some reason he had never
caught the fancy of the show-
crowds. Perhaps it was the way
he rolled his eyes, perhaps it
was his steady unspectacular
way of jumping, perhaps it was
his size. Perhaps it was just that
he was Black Magic’s most con-
sistent rival; and Black Magic
was the idol of show-crowds
from one end of the country to
the other.
A S Jack McGowan slipped the
rug off Black Magic and
jumped up there was a quicken-
ing of interest in the packed
stands and around the ground.
This was the little champion, the
tiny little mare that had great
big strong nasty horses like
White Socks to beat. “The poor
little thing,” the women said.
“That’s my horse,” the children
said. “She’s a game-’un,” the
men said.
McGowan had an altogether
different style from Tommy’s.
Where Tommy had a classic
seat and was always in close to
his horse. Jack “aeroplaned”
them. That is, he actually left
the saddle at the top of the jump
and only his hands had contact
with his horse. Where Tommy
let his reins slip through, Mc-
Gowan had them at the same
short hold throughout and fol-
lowed them through. It was a
freak method he had evolved
over years of practice. Others
had tried to copy it, and, in fact,
the majority of high-jump
riders “aeroplaned” to some ex-
tent ; but none as McGowan
could. Tommy didn’t, because,
having tried it, he believed his
method was the best for a person
of his build, tall with long legs,
while McGowan’s was suited to
a person of McGowan’s build,
short with shorter, jockey-boy
legs.
McGowan didn’t bother to
show Black Magic up to the
jump. He stood her only about
fifteen yards away from it and
facing the other way.
And now Black Magic went
through her act. Where White
Socks was toey until he jumped
Black Magic was quiet and
placid until she had to: then
she became a wild horse. Her
ears went back, she turned half-
side on so that she was looking
over her shoulder at the jump.
She pranced, lifted one foot,
stamped, gave a squeal and then,
when she herself was ready—she
needed no sign from her rider—-
she went in at lightning speed,
stopped almost dead right under
the jump, and then, catlike, went
straight up and over in one
sudden spring.
It was her upward thrust with
{Continued on next page )
AND THE POET SAID
Give me my own hurt, my own squalor, pain,
and I will make it truth.
Give to me also Hhe touch even of your filth
and that too will be music;
nothing will ignore me that you permit my meeting:
even your beauty I could turn to song.
The price of this magic? Alchemy’s net cost?
Comptometers miscount clear truth,
cannot count this my yoke for your own bearing;
my hurt, my squalor, pain, my sense of beauty
for you to bear, for you to bear my death-long.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Regd. Supreme 100%“*™
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining: TILLEY
products.
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 244
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
"It's a knockout!"
■
;V-?
VI
Whether “Dreadnought” Davey is battling for the cruiser-
weight championship of Upper Mombasa or leading his crazy
gang on a rocket flight to the moon, each weekly adventure
in the laugh-filled “Dulux Show” is a knockout in sure-fire
entertainment for the whole family.
"The Dulux Show” is pro-
duced and presented for the
makers of Dulux Paints by
the Macquarie Broadcasting
Service .
THE
DULUX SHOW
Wednesday nights at 8.
2GB • SAW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 3CV 4BU 4GY 6BY
her hind-legs from the ground
that gave McGowan his impetus
and lifted him, legs wide apart,
so that over the top of the jump
he was flying through the air by
himself, balanced on his hands
on her neck, and then as she
dropped he too dropped back,
the stirrups took his weight again
and they were over.
The hush that had settled now
gave way to cheering and clap-
ping, Black Magic was the
crowd’s favorite, and she loved
it. When she was applauded her
ears went forward, she cocked
her head and pranced on her
incredible, unmarked, yearling-
like legs. Tommy couldn’t help
being moved when he saw her
jump. She was freakish bril-
liance, while White Socks was
orthodox competence.
The other four horses got
over, but with so much flurry
and effort that it was clear only
Tommy and McGowan would be
in at the finish.
r T'HE bar was up to five-foot-
A six now. Again Tommy
sent White Socks over in the one
long, even, gradual movement;
and again McGowan and Black
Magic raced in so fast that they
looked as if they must run into
the jump, and again at the last
minute Black Magic paused, and
then hurled herself straight up
and over.
But three of the other four
missed. They all knocked the
top bar, and knocked it again
at their two remaining attempts.
Each horse was allowed three
jumps; and if he got over once
without knocking off a bar he
could go on to the next height.
At six feet the one horse left
with White Socks and Black
Magic, a neat grey ridden by an
■ r old but experienced rider, made
a bad mistake and took six
rails with him. That frightened
him, and he refused to jump at
all when his rider brought him
up for another try.
With only himself and Mc-
Gowan left. Tommy felt like
calling it a draw. But then he
reminded himself how badly
he needed a hundred pounds.
When the judge beckoned to
him he said “All right, put it up
to six-foot-six,” turned White
Socks and rode him out.
He heard the rumble from
the crowd when it was
announced from the loud-
speakers that Tommy Doyle and
White Socks were going to jump
the six-foot-six bar. The record
for the ground was only six-foot-
nine. It was a bad ground com-
pared with Sydney or Caims, the
best of the lot, where the Aus-
tralian and world record was
set at eight-foot-six.
And at six-foot-six the acci-
dent happened. Tommy thought
there was a flash of light from
one of the sideshows across the
ground. It showed for an in-
stant through the rails of the
jump; it was probably a spot-
light swinging to a different
position. But whatever it was
it made White Socks balk.
Tommy felt him go bn, though
it was too late now, felt him
put in a quick one, a last-minute
shuffle to get his legs right, and
knew that they must hit it.
They took the three top rails.
White Socks, game through and
through, had tried too hard to
clear a jump that, because of a
bad position at the take-off, was
impossible for him. He fell for
the first time in his two years as
a high-jumper.
Tommy sensed it coming, let
go with everything and rolled
•off over White Socks’s shoulder
just before the horse was down.
When high-jumpers faff they
fall properly. There is no for-
ward momentum, and horse and
rider drop straight down from
six feet. Tommy rolled clear
only because he had enough
experience and was clear-headed
enough to make falling just as
careful a business as jumping.
He was all right. His luck
had held. But when he stopped
rolling and ran back to White
Socks and puffed him up he
knew the horse was in pain. He
ran hands over legs. Nothing
wrong there. He walked him
away. He grinned ; the an-
nouncer assumed the horse must
be all right; and the crowd gave
him a big hand.
■DLACK MAGIC and Jack Mc-
Gowan were the centre of
interest now. Before Tommy
would try the six-foot-six mark
again McGowan would make his
first attempt at it.
But as McGowan and Black
Magic walked out to try Tommy
knew that White Socks and he
were out of it. He put his hands
on tL* saddle to jump up and
realised then that it was the
horse’* back that had been hurt
in the fall. White Socks tossed
his head sideways, rolled his eyes
and swayed almost as if he
would fall when he felt the tiniest
pressure of Tommy’s hands. He
was breaking out in a bad sweat,
the great white blazed head was
weaving irom side to side near
the ground, and his eyes were
dull and Ciouded.
No one but Tommy noticed
it. Everyone was watching Black
Magic. Tho little mare must
have been upset by White Socks
faffing, because* she was taking
longer, much logger, to make up
her mind to jump. Twice she
turned, poised on her hind-legs ;
and each time, instead of going
in, swung round again. Mc-
Gowan was sooling her, a thing
he had to do on only very rare
occasions.
McGowan, too, was worried.
He suspected that White Socks
might have hurt himself. One
more jump might win him the
money. But the ground was
bad and Black Magic had had
a lot of jumping—too much,
probably—in the last few
months. The Doyle kid was a
fool to make something like this
necessary with Sydney only a
fortnight off; but he had asked
for it, and Jack McGowan was
never a quitter. When Black
Magic swung towards the jump
at last he rode her hard with his
hands and heels.
If she had gone in fast be-
fore, she went in now, with her
rider urging her, at her very
hardest. They tore in ; she saw
this jump was bigger; she
bunched herself for the effort.
Up she went, and McGowan
“aeroplaned” her as he had
seldom done before. He com-
pletely left her to jump it by
herself, free of any weight at all.
She got over by a fraction. But
McGowan had done it a bit too
well this time. He lost his won-
derful balance and fell off just
as she touched the ground with
her forefeet.
The crowd was roaring.
People were still watching the
top rail that the mare had safely
cleared. It seemed ages later
that anyone noticed McGowan
was on the ground and that
Black Magic was cantering rider-
less.
A horse had been hurt, and
now a rider. Jack McGowan
had broken his shoulder. He
felt he might as well have .done
a good job of it and broken his
neck. He wouldn’t be able to
ride at Sydney now. It was
tough luck; but you had to
expect falls every now and
again. »
Ail he said as they took him
off the ground to the ambulance-
station was “Ask Tommy Doyle
to put my mare away, mate. Tell
him she gets two dippers of oats
and has her feed very wet.”
WHITE SOCKS had two
attempts left at the six-
foot-six bar. If one of these
were successful Black Magic
would still be the winner, be-
cause she had got over at her
first try. But if White Socks
equalled her jump of six-foot-
six it would give Tommy the
right to have the bar put up to
six-foot-nine, or whatever height
he nominated, and the contest
would go on. Only if they both
took an equal number of
attempts to jump the same
height would it be a draw.
So now if Tommy jumped
six-foot-six and then jumped six-
foot-nine he would have to win,
even if Black Magic was capable
of jumping seven-foot-six, be-
cause her rider had been taken
off with a broken shoulder.
Only Tommy knew his own
horse had been hurt and that he
wouldn’t jump him. The judge
came over and asked him what
he was going to do.
“I’ll give it to Jack,” he said.
It sounded good, that way,
when it was announced. The
crowd went wild; their little
favorite had won. Tommy
Doyle was a sport, all right, the
sentimentalists said; Tommy
Doyle was yellow or must have
known his horse wasn’t good
enough, ,the hard-heads said ; it
was obvious they would split the
money, the knowing ones said.
T)LACK MAGIC had trotted
** back to the jump and stood
quietly, held by one of the
attendants. Tommy led her out
with his own White Socks. Jack
had asked him to give her her
feed. Jack would have done
that for him.
He put Black Magic in her
stall first, but tied her up, still
with the saddle on, and with
her rug over that.
“I’ll come back and do you
when I’ve fixed the old boy up,”
he said. “You’re a queer one,
all right.”
Tommy had the habit of talk-
ing to his horses. It seemed to
settle them. White Socks par-
ticularly liked to be spoken to.
Black Magic was cold and re-
mote and uninterested in
humans or other horses.
Tommy wasn’t happy as he
pulled White Socks’s saddle off.
He rubbed him down and put
his rug on and watered him and
gave him his feed, mixed and
ready.
He’d have to go home now;
White Socks would have to be
turned out. Perhaps his back
would get well in time, and
maybe in a year or two they
could be jumping again. It was
rotten luck just the same.
He went back to Black Magic’s
stall and had finished her be-
fore he heard the record from
the merry-go-round again—
“ The Loveliest Night of the
Year.”
“That bloody song,” he hissed.
“That bloody song.” And he
felt like a kid ; wanting to cry
and he couldn’t; and he was
kicking the side of the stall while
a horse that wasn’t interested in
anything but her feed munched
away in the corner. Then he
heard Jack McGowan saying
“Steady on, kid; you’ll scare
my horse.”
“ your horse,” Tommy
spat at him. “And you, too. I
would have beaten you easy if
my bloke hadn’t done his back
in.”
“That’s what I was thinkin’,”
McGowan said. “I was thinkin’,
too, of askin’ you to ride the
mare at Sydney for me, but I
didn’t reckon on you ever doing
your block like I just seen you.
Or was that just meant to be in
private-like?”
Tommy held the curse back.
Jack meant it. He wouldn’t
have said it otherwise.
“Yes,” he said. “That’s what
it was. Just in private, Jack.”
“All right, then,” the old man
said. “But get this into y’r
head. I only asked you because
you happen to be the best rider
I can find ; and I’ll have this
bloody shoulder for a month.
Come on ; we’ll go and have a
look at your bloke and see how
bad his back is.”
The little old man and the
boy, both hard, and yet with a
strange softness mixed with the
hardness, the sort of softness
that most people who work with
horses have, walked across to
the stall.
The merry-go-round started
again.
“If they play that damn’
record again,” the boy said, “I’ll
go and smash it to bits, that’s
what I’ll do.”


WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS—for protection against tire
CARELESSNESS DID THIS!
MM
%
S 2
"
\£i
i
a
izvtit
m
m
\a
M B 8
C©^
P
As long as there is human carelessness there
will be fires. You can’t prevent fires. But you
can prevent them from spreading and causing
material damage—with Grinnell Protection.
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers control a fire
whenever and wherever it strikes, night or day,
automatically, without fail. That’s why Grinnell
Protected buildings carry a rebate of up to 50%
on Fire and Loss of Profits insurance premiums.
If your business or property is not Grinnell
Protected today—you’re carrying a grave risk.
Why wait for fire to strike? Wormald Brothers’
experienced engineers will help you plan
protection for your specific risk.
A complete fire protection service is main-
tained by Wormald Brothers at all branches
throughout Australia and New Zealand.-
’Phone us and a representative will call.
-
So
pniiuTPi f
iMMuLL
Automatic Sprinkler
and
Fire Alarm System
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
throughout Australia and New Zealand
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889


Rose Lindsay's Memoirs
Menagerie in the
Mountains
IN 1912 I found an old stone
house with lots of ground
and stables near Faulcon-
bridge (N.S.W.) for us to
live in.
John Dailey asked us to take
his pug dog for a while. “It’s a
thoroughbred,” he said, “and
you’ll love it.” It arrived, all
polished-up, black face and
brindle, wearing a red patent-
leather collar with brass studs.
It had some dignified name,
but Norman promptly christened
it Goozle Gub Gub because of
the gurgling noises it made over
food. We were constantly going
out looking for it, and usually
found it curled up in front of
someone’s fire. We had Goozle
all his life, as usually happens
when friends leave a dog.
Norman asked Julian Ashton
to pick a nice fox-terrier pup for
him as he wanted a dog for
himself, and it had to be a “he”
dog. Julian got a very nicely-
marked pup and sent it up and
it was named Peter. After some
months Peter got fat and we
discovered its sex.
Julian refused to believe it;
but Peter had three pups. One
died and two lived to take fits
at the slightest excitement. The
lady took the worst turns and
was named the Lady Noodle
The author of “Jenah," as Low
depicted him for the old “Lone
Hand.” which ran another of his
novels, “Betty Wayside,” as a
serial. “Louis Stone, who was a
fine musician,” says Percival
Serie, “married Abbie Allen, also
a musician of ability.”
Villa, her brother the Stidger
Badger.
The Snoot, a friend who had
travelled with us, had kittens and
in no time we had eight cats.
Then we decided to buy a cow.
Why we did not get one locally
I do not know, but we went to
all the trouble of having one sent
frorh Hunter’s Hill, which took
two days in transport, arriving
with its calf, both white. The
seller insisted that we take the
calf for no extra charge. After
years of handling cows and
calves I can quite understand
why he wanted to get rid of the
calf.
A local boy was engaged to
milk the cow, and he stayed to
watch me give her a bath. “Yer
don’t wash cows,” he said. But
I had decided to get her nice
and white with lots of soap, and
after I had used nearly all the
house-towels to dry her she went
away and rubbed herself all over
a burnt tree.
The calf adopted me and
bellowed whenever she saw me,
and worse if she couldn’t see me.
She was always hanging round
the kitchen door and peering in.
The bellowing got on Norman’s
nerves, but I refused to part
with the calf.
It lived on with us for many
months until one day I said to
Harley Griffiths, who had come
to §tay with us, “The calf is lying
down, so ill.”
He went away and had a look
at it and said “It’s only blown.
I’ll stick it for you,” explaining
that he knew all about it, and it
was exactly what every farmer
did. “Just let the wind out, that’s
all.”
He took a pair of scissors to
it, while I felt faint and waited.
“Did it easily. It’ll be all right
now,” he said as he came back,
beaming. ,
The calf never recovered. It
just lay and died slowly for
some days. Undoubtedly <
Harley stabbed it to death.
“Must have stuck it too deep,”
was all he said.
Harley was a big bluff man
with an aggressive underlip and
the manner of a business
magnate; a great organiser
about the house. He had sold
his home at Mosman, and was
to make our place his home till
his wife returned from Mel-
bourne or he went there. In no
time he had the front room
turned into a studio and a
portrait started of me, which Sir
Baldwin Spencer bought and I
have lately secured. It is painted
in the glaze method which
Harley was very keen on at this
time, inducing Norman to do
some paintings in that style—he
did about eight; I still have
four of them and my daughter
Helen has one in America,
Harley took a trip to Mel-
bourne after a while and came
back full of new ideas, after
seeing Meldrum’s work, and set-
to to destroy all his paintings
done in the glaze manner. I
rescued one, a head that is still
as fresh as the day it was
finished. A little seapiece that
he gave to me I passed on to
Howard Hinton when he said
that he was unable to secure one
of Harley’s pictures for his
collection at Armidale. /
Norman began to think of
buying a house at Springwood,
and came home one day from a
ride saying “Tve been away out
the bush road and came on just
the place that I’d like. It’s got a
red tiled roof and there’s no one
in it, and there’s a lovely lot of
garden.”
“Has it got a striped, bull-
nose veranda and bow
windows?” I asked. “I think it
belongs to Francis Foy. I saw
a photo of it years ago.”
We went the next day and I
found that it was the place I
had seea in a photo, so off I
went to see Francis Foy and
arrange to buy the place.
Harley took over the decorat-
, ing. Fading doors were pulled
out and new floors put in as
, white-ants had eaten the old
ones. As soon as the floors
were down we moved in.
Harley ordered cream wall-
paper and all the woodwork to
, be painted black, which made it
, look like a mourning-card; but
I bright curtains were soon a
. relief; and we took a great
; interest in reconstructing the
; place. We secured a gardener,
and Norman decided Kt build a
studio, putting' up a large
i wooden room. “The Three
More of the unpublished memoirs of
Mrs. Norman Lindsay
Women” was the first large
canvas painted.
Lionel spent a weekend at
Springwood encouraging
Norman to do an etching; and
then he started the “Lady and
Parrot.’’ When he lived at
Clanwilliam-street, Willoughby,
Norman did three plates that
were never put out as an edition,
and he did not attempt one
again until the “Lady and
Parrot.”
Lionel kept up a stream of
letters with directions for using
acids, and sent up materials,
even his imported needle. If he
discovered anything new he
promptly imparted it to Norman.
He invented a marvellous
stopping-out varnish which
Norman said was better than
any on the market.
Lionel bought me three dif-
ferent black powders to make
my own ink, showing me the
process. He had a marble ink-
grinder made by a monumental-
mason which I still have, also
some of the powder. He
showed me how to print
and hand-wipe a plate. It
took me months to acquire the
gentle touch required which was
so necessary for Norman’s later
work, when he dotted in his grey
tones with a needle.
Often people have questioned
these dots, saying that he must
have used mechanical means to
do them. He did have a wheel
for groundwork, but he used it
only in the early etchings, and
rarely at that, “Desire” shows
it.
The blacks in plates took less
time' to bite than the greys ; I
think owing to the acid working
more rapidly where the copper
was most exposed. A black had
Sculptor Rayner Hoff, as
“sculped” for “The Bulletin” by
Frith in 1934. “Of Anzac
Memorial and Centenary Medal
fame,” the caption to Frith’s
drawing said of Hoff.
20 minutes biting, the dots over
an hour.
Aquatint never interested
Norman much. In cases where
he used aquatint for back-
grounds it often petered-out and
the editions could not be
completed.
I did the dirty jobs—cleaning
copper, filing the edges, ground-
ing and smoking the plates and
waiting to print the plate in
progress. This started me on my
hobby of collecting these first-
states and pencil-sketches, and
now I have a complete record
of alj Norman’s etchings in the
process of being made.
Frank Kinder made me
promise to keep up the collec-
tion when he saw its beginning.
The early etchings were not
easy to print, especially those
with a clear copper background
like the “Grey-eyed Girl” in the
Isle of San. A plate completely
covered with ink is easy to print.
I never liked ones with coarse
blacks like “Threat,” and for
that reason some editions have
never been fully printed.
Nearly all the early copper-
plates I smashed with a hammer
and sent to be made into bullets
the first year of World War I.
Others have been marked “Can-
celled” to make them secure
from future printing. A set thus
marked went to a museum in
Melbourne and some to the
Mitchell Library.
Many of the plates would have
stood a larger edition, but,
apart from those in books, the
editions never exceeded 55
prints. And some of the dry-
points did not last out the
number expected, and Norman
would never work-up a worn-
down dry-point. He had finished
it, and that was the end.
When Lionel acquired a
pianola he talked Norman into
buying one and very graciously
accompanied me to select it,
which I did entirely on the color
of its wood. Lionel protested
slightly, as it happened to be the
most expensive one in the shop.
I was adamant, as I liked the
wood.
He pronounced it of perfect
tone, and *was pleased to know
that Norman was getting a fine
instrument. The selection of the
rolls was left entirely to him.
He chose Beethoven, Wagner
and Chopin.
When they arrived Norman
said he wished he had sent some
light-opera, but in no time he
was playing Beethoven exclu-
sively. If I put on a Wagner
roll, he’d say “A woman’s
musician,” and leave the room
promptly; later, when Julian
Russell, with Jack Lindsay (one
of my three stepsons ; the others
are Raymond and Philip), came
to talk and play Wagner he
began to like it. Norman didn’t
care for Chopin, and when Louis
Stone borrowed our complete set
and fajjed to return it no one
minded. AH the Beethoven rolls
and any books on the life of
Beethoyen were bought.
Norman did his etching “C
Sharp Minor” at the height of
his interest in Beethoven, one of
the most difficult plates that I
have had to print, owing to the
black figure against a black
background, that had to be
wiped of all surplus ink to keep
it luminous.
Jack would come up for a
musical weekend and sit tensely
grave while Norman played. If
accompanied by Phil and
Raymond he did not approve of
Ray’s bursts of gusto or Phil’s
indifference. It was evident that
they were bored stiff at having
to sit for hours listening to
music, and Jack would pass
dirty black looks at them.
When Melba came to lunch
one day Norman talked Beet-
hoven right through the meal.
Turning to Beverley Nichols
she said “He knows more about
Beethoven than I do,”
Meeting Verbruggen one day
Norman expressed his regret at
not being able to hear the Fifth
Symphony played with a full
orchestra. Verbruggen promised
to put it on for him, and some
weeks later a telegram came
naming the night. Jack accom-
panied Norman for the great
event.
Then a gramophone was
bought and all the Beethoven
records. Backhaus was induced
to visit the great house of Beet-
hoven with the idea of playing
something for Norman, but was
so wrecked by a fast drive up
by a mutual friend that he
couldn’t touch a piano. He said
“She passed everything on the
road.”
Mrs. Backhaus whispered to
me “He will be a wreck for
days ; he hates speed.”
Lionel brought Chris Brennan
to Springwood for the weekend,
bringing special wines that Chris
liked.
After dinner we settled in the
lounge-room with coffee and the
bottle. Chris removed his coat
and shirt, and, ‘in his coarse
cream woollen singlet, sat on the
carpet propped-up with cushions
like a Roman senator. He
smoked his great pipe, I poured
coffee, Lionel the wine and
Chris orated.
Lionel had admired him and
his work for years, and showed
Low’s version of Christopher
Brennan, to which may be
appended the A. G. Stephens
version that Chris Brennan
“stood six feet tall (with a
scholar’s stoop); with black-
rusty hair, blue-grey eyes and a
beak like Brennus the Raven.”
no lessening of his admiration
on that night. Chris gave us
Greek verse till the early hours
of the morning. He had a
tremendous but low-toned voice,
liquid with love for his Greek.
I have never seen Lionel happier.
He poured wine and encouraged
the great beak-nosed Chris for
more and more poetry.
But he talked, too, of his
home life, , his wife’s excellent
cooking, his love of sleeping
naked between blankets, summer
and winter, because on hot
nights they mopped-up the
sweat and on cold they
warmed his blood. To sit on a
blanket, eat a potato baked in
its jacket and drink red wine at
his seaside cottage was all that
he wished for his old age.
He filled, lit, refilled and lit
his great curved pipe all night,
waving it to the rhythm of
Greek poetrv and mopping his
perspiring brow with the back
of his hand, and his hand on the
cushions. It was a hot, sultry
night. Norman had stretched on
his own chair with foot-rests, and
I on the boards for coolness,
and the better to gaze and listen
to this literary giant who said
that with him 1 must do the
rounds of all his pubs and haunts
all night till dawn. I regret to
this day that it never eventuated.
Louis Stone (of Jonah) was
tall, thin and sad-looking.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
sd
f
Circular Chart* for ail type*
of Recording instrument*
•or wjr dui o* HkMmt|
or Equipment
MffTfß CHARTS » Sp«<Ulty
JACMTS O’SULUVAN^I^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to. review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
mcmrmmm
OR*
>y
*
•••
i
Whenever and wherever you
travel on business or pleasure,
protect your funds by carrying
Commonwealth Bank Travellers'
Cheques. They are more con-
venient and safer than money.
The Commonwealth Bank can provide you with
Travellers' Cheques which are readily negotiable
throughout the world. Cheques are available in
Australian, New Zealand, English and U.S.A.
currencies.
Your enquiries on this or any other trading
bank service will be welcomed at any branch of
the Commonwealth Bank.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
OBTAINABLE AT ALL BRANCHES
and always made me remember
“Sadder than a single star.” He
and his wife Abbie usually spent
Christmas and school holidays
with us. I remember J. F.
Archibald arriving once, unex-
pectedly, with two old cronies
from the club, to stay the night.
It was a very cold night, and
Archie and the two pulled a
couch close up to the fire and
started to talk of old friends,
ignoring us in the cold back-
ground. Louis was pacing up
and down with his school-
master’s tread, hands behind his
back. He always paced the room
when he talked. He was angry
with them for taking all the fire
space.
We heard bits of their conver-
sation.
“Oh, yes, he died long ago,”
one of them said.
“Dear, dear,” Archie would
say. “And what about Tom
Brown?”
“He’s dead.”
As they went on like this Louis
said to Norman: “Listen to the
undertakers burying the dead.”
And as someone else was pro-
nounced “dead,” Louis paused
to whisper again “Driving the
nails into the coffins.” And
when the old men went off to bed
in a procession he said “Going
to the funeral now,”
Norman and I met Marie
Tempest and Graham Browne
one day at the Australia. She
said “Such a queer man came to
my house this morning. Wasn’t
he?” turning to Graham.
“Extraordinary,” he drawled.
“Yes, it took me such a time
to find out what he wanted. It
was a play for me to read, and
when I said I would he didn’t
have it with him. Said he’d go
and get it.”
Norman said “That was Louis
Stone.”
“Yes, that’s right. I don’t
know where he had the play, but
he got it in no time. As it had
a nude Greek god in it, I couldn’t
see Graham doing it,” she said.
I asked Louis later where he
had left the play. “Around the
corner at a tobacconist’s. That
woman is a lady of the first
water. Received me as graci-
ously as a queen,” he said.
I saw quite a lot of Louis to-
wards the end of his life, when
he had resigned from teaching
owing to bad health. Abbie
must have been sorely tried
through those long months, for
he became rather vague about
things. My daughter Helen took
him to lunch, and seated
at the same table was a lady
who had her plate of pudding
before her. Louis took it and
ate it, remaining distantly aloof
while Helen made an adjust-
ment. Also, one evening he met
Helen in the city to take her
home to dine. Louis was given
a parcel of rump-steak to mind
on the tram while Helen paid
the fares. She never saw it again,
and Louis, when asked, said
“Threw it away.” He had
apparently thrown it out of the
tram.
• • • •
“You must have a few
fowls,” Archibald said to
me so often that I got
a few. He seemed to think
that a cow and a few fowls
meant safety from want in old
age. He bought a block of land
next to us so that he could have
a cow later on. He paid 80
pounds for it and spent a hun-
dred having it cleared. After
his death it was sold for 30
pounds. He used to say that he
would put a shack on it, have a
Jersey cow and his few fowls.
It was having a few fowls that
made him think of omelettes
and blue-flame stoves ; he made
an omelette once which Norman
fed, under the table, to Goozle
Gub Gub. But I thought of in-
cubators. I bought one, and in
no time I had over 300 chickens
and fowls and 50 turkeys.
Julian Ashton, who always
dreamed of a quiet life in the
country, too, sent me a prize
black rooster with full instruc-
tions what to mate it with; but
it beat all restrictions, and its
blue-blood went into the incu-
bators with the rest.
I went out once to buy a
turkey-gobbler, and, seeing eight
sucking-pigs, asked the man
what he was going to do with
them. “Sell them to the butcher
tomorrow,” he said ; so I bought
Hugh McCrae. Various artists
had a shot at Hugh, but the
whimsical and other singu-
larities of his phiz were usually
missed until Dubois limned them
in this sketch for “The Bulletin”
in 1937.
the lot to save them and arrived
home in advance of the cart
which'was carrying them. Eight
pigs and no sty was a bit of a
problem at dusk, so I herded
them into the laundry, where
they squealed all night. The
next day Norman insisted that
the sty must be away down at
the bottom of the paddock.
“Your maternal instincts are
going a bit too far,” he said.
Rayner Hoff decided to do
a statue of me —life-size. He
arrived with his brother Tom
and a car-load of trestles and
clay which he set up in the
studio, completely depriving
Norman of any comfort to
work there for some weeks.
Rayner came every weekend till
the statue was finished.
I found posing very tiring
after my long break from it,
and was apt to flop. “Straighten
up,” Rayner would shout. He
worked in a quick, furious way,
throwing lumps of clay where he
needed it. Tom silently handed
him all his materials as he
worked. Rayner was short,
stocky, dark and very brisk;
Tom was tall, fair and gentle,
with a great admiration for
Rayner.
Norman designed a mascot for
my car, a sphinx. And Rayner
made it to be cast in metal and
silvered. And very proudly the
lady sat up on the front of my
car on the radiator-cap. One
day at a tram-stop in the city a
small boy leaned out of the
tram and said “What kind of an
animal is that, missus?”
I never quite forgave Rayner
for saying that I had a most
remarkable figure for my age—
but he was always a bit clumsy
with his compliments.
He was very interested in
Norman’s statues around the
, garden. There are ten of them,
defying time and weather since
they are solid cement, built up
on iron frames and wire-netting.
All our iron bedsteads went that
way. We also have cement
garden-tables, cement borders,
cement urns and cement garden-
seats. I think a thousand bags of
cement would be a poor guess at
the amount used around this
place.
Hugh McCrae, the poet, had
a cottage at Blaxland, and came
sometimes to see Norman.
He came one day when I was
making a costume to go to the
Artists’ Ball.
“Why not come and bring the
family?” I suggested.
He said he would, and we
arranged to meet on the train On
the day of the ball.
As the train neared Blaxland
I waved to Mac, who was alone.
When he got in I asked where
the family was.
“They went to Sydney two
days ago to get costumes,” he
said.
“What about yours?” I asked.
“It’s here,” he said, patting a
small brown-paper parcel that
had “21b. Sugar” written on it.
“Nonsense,” I said.
“Yes, it’s here, I found it at
the last minute.”
He opened the bag to show
me —it was a small bread-roll.
“I nearly wasn’t coming till I
found this,” he said, closing the
bag. ‘‘l went for a long walk
down the gully this morning, and
when I came home I was so
hungry and not a bit of food in
the house. I searched every-
where. Then I found this roll
behind a box on the floor. I
tried to eat it, but it was too
hard to bite, so I thought it
WO uld do to wear to the ball. If
it hadn’t been for this I wouldn't
have a costume for tonight,”
“How are you going to wear
it?” I asked.
“You’ll see tonight,” was all
the satisfaction that he would
give me.
I watched for his entrance at
the Town Hall; so did Nancy
and Mahdi (his wife and
daughter). He came in swinging
a cutlass, wearing a singlet, a
com-sack skirt and a black
pirate’s hat with skull and cross-
bones painted white, and the
bread-roll scooped out and
glued on for a bulbous nose,
with dashes of red paint on it.
And a very fine pirate he looked.
Norman paid McCrae a visit
at his flat in Darling Point a
few years back. He had written
to tell me that his flat was easy
to find—by following the tele-
phone-wires till we reached the
pines that had creepers flowering
0I ? them ’ and just there was his
window.
Norman was warned to be
quiet if someone knocked at the
door.
A man had written from the
country to say that he was com-
tag to Sydney to see Mac. “I
have admired your work tor
years and want to see you before
I die ” he wrote.
“He comes today,” Mac said,
He came and stayed knocking
so long that Mac slipped out into
the back lane and hurried
around to the front gate, then
knocked loudly on the door,
“He seems to be out,” the man
said.
“He’s never at home,” Mac
replied, and went out slamming
the gate.


On being wet
by BERNARD HARRIS
THERE were some wet per-
sonnel in the R.A.A.F.;
but it was only when your
wetness extended to the
duties of your mustering that it
had any sinister significance.
You can only silently pity a
man who puts his foot in things
every time he speaks. But the
veteran W.O.P. who nods self-
righteously as the tower auto-
matically asks, “Have you
wound in your trailing aerial?”
and sits calmly while that very
item whips round a tree in the
approach and snaps two feet
from the reel is an object of
something more potent than
pity.
It was amazing what whoppers
even the best of aircrew some-
times made in the line of duty.
One navigator in training took
three bearings of his starboard
navigation-light one night and
then wondered why he couldn’t
get a cocked hat. Another care-
fully took three bearings at inter-
vals on the lights of a distant
town, only to find when he was
about to transfer these to his
plotting-sheet that he hadn’t the
faintest idea what town it was.
Somebody once told me that
Jerry Pentland, O.C. of a rescue
unit in New Guinea, would say
to his new amphibian pilots:
“If you land on the water with
your wheels down, you’ll break
your neck; and if you land on
the strip with your wheels up,
I’ll break it for you.” |
If Jerry did say that!, there is
no doubt that it was good and
necessary advice. I remember
seeing one pilot skilfully taxi a
Beaufort into position on the
tarmac, face her up nicely, and
then manoeuvre the lever to
bring his flaps to a normal
position, only to experience the
mortification of seeing the plane
kneel over on one wing like a
camel, before settling down com-
fortably on its belly, because he
had touched the lever to retract
his undercarriage by mistake.
Many units awarded special
decorations for such deeds of
dampness ; and there never was
a dearth of aspirants.
TVrOW, there were men you
could look at and say with
some degree of certainty;
“There is one who will never
take off without removing the
chock from his rudder,” Such
a one was Paul Winter, a sober,
quick-eyed lad who did every-
thing required of him efficiently,
without fuss. He was the most
wideawake pilot I ever knew,
and I liked flying with him. It
was a waste of time for the tower
to remind him: “Wheels down
and locked,” for Paul would
never neglect such an elementary
duty.
As for myself, it pleased me
to realise that in my whole
R.A.A.F. career I had never
made a public blunder. I had
made miscalculations, but I had
always discovered them in an
early check. Imagine, then, how
efficient the pair of us were as a
crew!
Paul and I set out from
Piva for Jacquinot Bay,
where we were to spray the
camp area with D.D.T. oil.
Paul took off meticulously, and
expertly set course; and I felt
happy, because my wireless was
behaving well and the met. wind
seemed almost perfectly accu-
rate. We should hit Jacquinot
Bay dead on E.T.A., and I need
only make a check or two on
the way.
After we had settled down at
our correct height in a cloudless
blue sky, I spun my receiver-
dial about, as was my wont, in
search of something to brighten
the droning time ; and, almost
immediately on one of the R.T.
frequencies, I found something
that tickled my fancy. Paul
liked it too, so for thirty minutes
we listened, filling in the long
periods of silence with con-
jecture about the result of the
occurrence. It was a two-way
conversation between Emirau
base and the pilot of an
R.N.Z.A.F. Mitchell returning
from a daylight raid over
Rabaul,
R.T., owing partly to the fact
that many aircraft transmitters
were primarily built for good
C.W. transmission, partly to the
official form which calls had to
take and partly to the click and
crackle which always preceded
and followed the message, was
a medium which did little
justice to a man’s dramatic
ability, sometimes making his
tragic remarks screamingly
funny and often his humorous
quips morbidly depressing.
“Bangor 9 to North Cape,
May I come in? Over,” began
the Mitchell.
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. Have you anything for
me? Over,” replied base.
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
Roger. I have a message for
you. Over,” the aircraft tem-
porised.
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. What is your message?
What is your message? Over,”
said base, angling for infor-
mation.
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
Roger. Here is my message. I
have a hanging bomb. What
are your instructions? Over,”
said the aircraft, coming to the
point.
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. Stand by for instruc-
tions. Out,” base said, with an
ominous note of finality.
AND indeed, as time passed,
and plane after plane spoke
to base, it seemed that Bangor 9
had been forgotten; and he
must have finally come to that
conclusion, for up he came
again;
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
May I come in? Over.”
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. Have you something for
me? Over.”
This time Bangor 9, in a fit of
impatience perhaps, climbed out
of the groove and took a short-
cut.
“Bangor 9 to North Cape,
Roger. I have a hanging bomb,
and I am awaiting instructions
from you. Over.”
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. You were told to stand
by for instructions. Out.”
But here Bangor 9’s mounting
impatience led him to transgress
the R.T. etiquette, as he came
up with;
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
Roger. I have been standing
by, but now I am in the circuit
area. What are your landing
instructions? Over.”
Base was not pleased by the
bad manners, but it conde-
scended to say:
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. Land at South Cape.
Is that understood? Over.”
South Cape was the emergency
strip and, judging from Bangor
9’s reply, was not a popular
resort.
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
Roger. Why land at South
Cape? Why not North Cape?
Over.”
Bangor 9’s impatience was
bubbling over, and threatened at
any moment to erupt in a com-
plete disregard of all the fine
and tried and found-not-wanting
formalities of R.T.; but base, in
a pretty exhibition of forceful
restraint, calmly replied: •
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Roger. Land at South Cape.
Land at South Cape. Call me
again on your downwind leg.
Is that understood? Over.”
Bangor 9 now lost all control,
much sense of form, and most
of his coherence as he retorted:
“Bangor 9 to North Cape.
Haven’t you ever seen a bloody
crate land with a hanging bomb?
Do you think you’ll lose your
guts if we blow up near the
tower?”
North Cape drew itself up to
its full height, and assumed its
most formidable censorious
tones as it said, in rebuke:
“North Cape to Bangor 9.
Are you aware that you are on
the air? Over.”
But Bangor 9, now completely
rebellious, almost, it seemed,
criminal beyond redemption,
perpetrated this final enormity:
“Bangor 9 speaking. Too
bloody right I know I’m on the
air. Who do you think you are
—Hirohito? That’s all.”
HTHE Mitchell must have got
1 down all right, for we heard
nothing more from him, so I
raked the dial again and finally
was arrested on our own R.T.
frequency, listening to a call
from Piva to our aircraft. I
tuned the set and called back:
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. How do you hear me?
Over.”
“How Easy Charlie to Able
Baker. Roger. Hearing you
strength five. How do you
hear me? Over,” replied Piva.
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Roger. Hearing you
strength five. Have you a mess-
age for me?”
“How Easy Charlie to Able
Baker. I have a message for
you. Over,” droned on the
voice of base.
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Roger. Say your
message. Over.”
“How Easy Charlie to Able
Baker. Roger. Here is my
message. C.W. has been trying
to contact you. It seems there
is some fault in your radio
equipment. I say again, there
is some fault in your radio
equipment. Is that understood?
Over,” said base, as if talking to
a lost child.
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Roger. lam about to
check radio equipment. Over.”
“How Easy Charlie to Able
Baker. Roger. I shall stand
by while you check. Over.”
I hadn’t far to look for the
fault, and I went white as I saw
it above my head. I knew that
base could never detect any
ordinary fault of my radio
equipment. That could only
mean I was sending out some
incorrect signal. My trans-
mitter had never been in action,
so that could not be faulty; but
up above me was a little gew-
gaw called 1.F.F., which continu-
ously transmitted to base the
identifying signal for Allied
aircraft. On the equipment
was a switch with a number of
positions for different days and
a special emergency position
which a W..0.P. switched to if
his plane were in a bad way.
The emergency position, which
was clearly marked by that
name in red, caused the mystery
box to send out a continuous
SOS, at the sound of which
every radio-station within a
radius of a thousand miles
ceased all normal duties and
furiously fell to emergency aid
of the stricken craft. And I
perceived that my switch was
on the Emergency position;
that it had been there since take-
off ; that we had stooged bliss-
fully along for three-quarters of
an hour with every radar-station
within call breathlessly following
our progress.
I had hot flushes to the head
as I visualised those scores of
radar operators all over the
South-West Pacific gradually
becoming wide-eyed with
wonder that this aircraft in dis-
tress doggedly maintained its
course and height and normal
cruising speed, politely rebuffing
the dozens of urgent radio-signals
which must have been directed
at it. This was my fall with a
vengeance. I had made my
name not only in my own unit,
not only in Bougainville, but
throughout the length and
breadth of the Pacific; and to-
night, in each of dozens of
messes, someone would open his
story with, “Did you hear about
the wet beggar wh0...?”
With a confused vision of all
the D.F. stations which must
have been eagerly plotting our
track, I quickly turned the
switch from Emergency to the
number appropriate for the day;
then I weakly resumed my seat
and said :
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. The radio fault is
rectified. Will you check for
me? Over,”
“How Easy Charlie to Able
Baker. Roger. You are being
checked. Meanwhile” —and I
shivered as I detected an omi-
nous ring in the staccato tones.
WHAT else had I done? Paul
* Winter had heard the entire
conversation and had turned his
head to watch me readjust the
switch, and I imagined I could
see a disgusted hunch on his
shoulders,
“Meanwhile,” continued the
radio voice inexorably, “your
course appears to be slightly in-
correct. I say again your course
is incorrect. I am standing by
while you check your course.
Is that understood? Over.”
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Wilco.”
In the throes of my guilt over
the I.F.F. lapse, I immediately
surmised that I had given Paul
a wrong course, and I hurriedly
checked it on my map. It
seemed right enough, somewhere
about two hundred and ninety
degrees; and I instantly sus-
pected that all those diligent
D.F. radar-stations had so
meticulously worked out our
track that they had discovered
we were a degree or two wrong
and could not resist telling us
about it. Then I wondered if,
after working out the correct
course, I had inadvertently
passed it on incorrectly to Paul.
As I walked up and stood
near Paul, I saw that he was
studying his gyro. Then I
noticed the look of utmost
desolation mounting on his face
and his ears reddened under his
phones as he unlatched the
compass dial as if it were red-
hot, turned it about considerably
and immediately made an ob-
tuse-angled turn to starboard.
My pin-up pilot gave me one
glance from despairing eyes and,
as I sat down and donned my
phones, he said faintly: “Bert,
I’ve been flying one hundred and
ninety. I’ve just turned to two
hundred and ninety.” I noted
the time.
FOR fifty minutes —approxi-
mately one hundred and fifty
miles —we had been flying a
course which would have taken
us not to New Britain, but on a
track on which the first land-
mark would have been part of
the Great Ice Barrier. The
words poured straight from that
cup of bitterness which was my
heart, as I said;
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Course-error noted
and rectified. Is that under-
stood?”
“How Easy to Able Baker.
Roger. Your radio equipment
is now correct. If there is any
other little matter”—and here I
shivered —“C.W. will call you.
Is that understood? Over.”
“Able Baker to How Easy
Charlie. Roger. Out.”
And feeling that there was a
complete void where my stomach
should have been, I fell dismally
to working out an “alter-course”
that would lead us to Jacquinqt
Bay.
Beachcombings
THE JELLYFISH
By JOHN BLIGHT
In lewd imitation of woman, heavy upon the tide,
Like breasts upon her bosom t jellyfish ride.
I have watched them from the jetty; blue,
Paler than the sea, almost a purer blue
Where they drift in the lee-shore water in a pattern
That is pretty as the open breasts of some down-town
slattern.
I do nothing but watch; no fishing
With the jellyfish thick in the current, fleshing
The sea with their lascivious numbers, rubbing
A line left in. Better one took to clubbing,
Like the boy on the beach, knocking them out of the sea
Above the line of high-water, than watching with me.
I can only see these woman-shaped fish
Protruding under the clear silk surface; know that the sea
is rich.
BEACH FLOWER
I looked at that plant flowering yellow
On the white sands, and thought that a bee’s kiss
Of salt spray must marry its seed. And, next, this
Thought on the lines of the Lord’s creating—those green
tallow
Leaves like harrow tines that rake the dunes
Have their flowers at their tips, like stars
Impaled: may have impaled starfish, moons
Ago, and got the idea of beautiful flowers.
Anything is possible when salt and sand surprise
With a garden of seeming sunrise.
As I stepped over the crest of a sand wave
To a sea of dunes, beachcomber for a day,
I found nothing but this garden of brave
Yellow flowers, in a tract that would, bare, dismay.
THE DEAD FISH
A flat papery fish, like a cured head,
Shrunken and misered, unreasonably alive
—Since the living, only, can positively give
Such grim imitation of something so ugly, dead.
I could not believe it was not choosing
To bleach in the basking sun as I had seen
Lizards upon a fiery rock, fusing,
Almost, into the stone. On the beach this lean,
Leathery, deflated fish which the flies
Had forsaken, just above high-water mark, out of reach
Of the tide, near the cotton-tree’s shade, lies
Like a lucky charm—ugh! rabbit’s paw! Some wretch
Might gather it with driftwood. Yes, old shellback.
Carry it to your tin wurley. For such omens I could
never turn back.
PORPOISES
Porpoises, so far from their green, salt garden;
Led up this river-path by a lack of rain.
It is strange to learn that the sea is so close.
In their snort and dive depth
Such as I never dreamt the river held.
So narrowly between these banks I see
The ocean’s menagerie pass. It wakes,
Astounds the eye, twenty miles from the sea.
Watching, processional, the porpoises cavorting upstream.
They seem so like young horses: horses, I know,
That bow their necks and speed without stress.
Drought must coax them to come here again,
To give the river new thought; even though, I fear.
They’ll be gone for the seasons’ cycle, like any circus train.


m
:n
Established ity/t, u Reign of
Oeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.S.W Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELLEN REBECCA PAYSENO late of
Church Lane Prospect and JAMES
HOWELL late of Church Lane Prospect.
—TAKE NOTICE that JACK PAYSENO
has filed a petition No. 3223 of 1960
praying for a divorce from Ellen Rebecca
Payseno on the ground of her adultery
with James Howell If you or either of
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
27th April 1953 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from ABRAHAM
GEORGE BRINDLEY, Solicitor, of 195
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
ALL OYER THE WORLD
Good mornings begin with Gillette
When Blue Gillette Blades shave the gay Spanish face
They clearly reveal the world’s handsomest race,
So now every male looks smoother and neater,
A joy and a boon to the fair senorita.
I BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
f
5-BLADE PACKETS, 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/2
n
20-BLADE DISPENSER. 8/4
The world's best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
PAI
Listeners' Fare in Moscow
A DAY ON
MOSCOW RADIO
By B.D. SINGER
IN the general mood of
vigilance and criticism that
now prevails among the
Russians the Soviet radio
has had its share of the
blame. “Pravda,” the official
organ of the party, has accused
Moscow Radio of boredom and
monotony. Of Stalingrad
station it was said that as soon
as the local service starts at least
half the listeners switch off.
If Russian broadcasters were
allowed to answer back they
could argue that their pro-
grammes are boring largely be-
cause they echo, directly or in-
directly, the columns of their
accuser, “Pravda.”
Lenin called the radio “a
journal without paper or dist-
ance.” These “journals” enjoy
one advantage over the orthodox
ones in Stalinist Russia; they
must at least have entertain-
ment features like a commercial
programme. No sane advertiser
would plug his toothpaste on the
air neat, by itself. Nor is Soviet
propaganda broadcast undiluted.
The quotations from Soviet
chiefs, the anti-American feature
are served between Chekhov and
Tschaikovsky.
To see how far “Pravda’s”
accusations are well-founded
and how the output of Russian
radio compares with that in
other countries, say the
let us tune into Moscow station
number I. There are two other
central stations broadcasting to
the whole of the Soviet Union,
but Moscow I is the most com-
plete, and the following pro-
gramme for one day is typical
of its output. The only peculi-
arity of this day was the em-
phasis on soldiers’ programmes
and requests, as it was the eve of
an Army Day.
I had to start listening early,
since the No. I station begins
broadcasting at 6 a.m. Moscow
time (3 a.m. Greenwich mean
time). During the first three
hours it is busy sending the
adults off to work with short
news items interspersed with
music. The party activist just has
the time to listen to “Pravda’s”
editorial.
From 9 a.m. till lunch-time
the programme is aimed at the
child, the schoolboy and the
young Communist, but not at the
housewife as in Britain. First
there is the day’s “good cause”:
a broadcast of Indo-Chinese
songs, dances and poems to cele-
brate the “International Day of
Struggle Against Colonial Re-
gimes.” On other days Rumanian
or Bulgarian art is featured be-
cause of some friendship day.
Then comes a discussion be-
tween schoolboys from the
“geographers’ club,” who com-
pare their expeditions and find-
ings ; a summary of the main
features of the daily newspaper
of Communist Youth is followed
by a talk for children on
Tchapayev, a celebrated parti-
san hero of the Civil War. This
is considered a good way to
instil into the young respect for
both the Army and the party.
At noon there is a news ser-
vice lasting 20 minutes. Unless
“Pravda” decides to sound a
note of gloom, everything is
bright and sunny on the home-
front: Leningrad workers built
seven new houses and those of 1
Sverdlovsk fulfilled their
monthly plan ahead of schedule.
Peaceful Soviet construction is
contrasted with imperialist
scheming, and finally, with clock-
like regularity, comes the com-
munique from the Korean front.
The boredom is somewhat re-
lieved by the duet of the two
announcers, baritone and
soprano.
In the afternoon we return to
the day’s good cause with songs
of the People of Asia and the
Pacific. Then comes soldiers’
choice, the selections in which
seem somewhat highbrow by the
standards of any country, fol-
lowed by a radio adaptation of
a Soviet novel; answers by ex-
perts to “listeners’ questions” on
the great projects of construc-
tion ; and a talk on the demo-
cratic intricacies of the Soviet
electoral system.
In the evening there are songs
by a Soviet composer, a discus-
sion by shock-workers entitled
“The Day of Socialist Competi-
tion,” and a serious concert
transmitted from a Moscow hall.
There are also “answers to ques-
tions” on the international situa-
tion, another rather highbrow
listeners’-choice programme, an
adapted poem and a concert of
folksongs. Finally there comes
a news service of 30 minutes
(there have been shorter news
programmes in the meantime).
The bells of the Kremlin strike
12 and then go on ringing for a
few minutes. They once played
the Tsarist hymn, then the “In-
ternational” ; now they ring out
the new Soviet national anthem.
Yet in Russia, where the sun
never sets, the day is not ended.
Far into the night programmes
are still relayed to the Soviet
Far East. On another Moscow
station a monotonous voice
slowly—punctuating and spelling
difficult words —dictates news
and features for the provincial
Press. And so on till morning...
What impression does the
Soviet programme make on an
outsider? It undoubtedly has
certain points in common with
the 8.8. C. As a financially
secure monopoly, it needs no
advertising, nor does it need to
cater for the popular taste.
Indeed, Moscow is in this
respect more puritan than Lon-
don. Soviet radio spurns variety,
and has little room for the music-
hall. But it plays directly and
emphatically the role of an edu-
cator. The radio popularises
science and provides useful in-
formation to farmers who are
lucky enough to have a crystal-
set. It diffuses the world’s
classics and particularly the
Russian masters —the Tolstoys,
Gogols and Chekhovs.
In music, too, the Soviet rulers
can impose their taste on the
public. Little time is allotted to
the Soviet form of jazz or to
modern dance - music. Old-
fashioned waltzes, Soviet and
Russian folksongs provide most
of the lighter form of entertain-
ment. Where popular and offi-
cial tastes seem to meet is in the
predilection for such less-difficult
national Russian composers as
Tschaikovsky and Glinka.
Generally speaking, there is an
astonishingly large number of
concerts of serious classical
music for a country which, half
a century ago, was still largely
illiterate. Soviet broadcasting is
imposing Beethoven as well as
its own propaganda.
Officiallly, over half of the
broadcasting-time is devoted to
music and only one-fifth to
“scientific and political broad-
casts,” but, in fact, propaganda
permeates everything. Even in
music the choice is determined
by political directives. Wagner
was banned during the war as a
“Nazi.” Modernistic music is
anathema to official censors of
Soviet culture. The Soviet com-
poser s«who fell for this “heresy”
have long ago recanted and com-
posed to order.
Political considerations deter-
mine the choice of plays, the
topics for discussion, the his-
torical analogies, Soviet novel-
ists and playwrights are always
willing to write to measure on
American atrocities or on traitors
in “People’s Democracies.” A
special emphasis is put on pro-
grammes for children and young
people, because it is best to
mould citizens at a tender age.
Because of this usually crude
propaganda the Russian radio
often breathes the air of bore-
dom deplored by “Pravda.” Yet
“Pravda” would be the last to
advocate removal of the cause
of this boredom. To improve
Soviet broadcasting radically it
would be necessary to strike at
the very roots of Soviet society.
However, the range of broad-
casting is wider than that of the
Press. This may seem a strange
assertion in view of the fact that
in 1947 the Soviet Union had
only 8,000,000 receivers, of
which only 1,000,000 were valve-
sets. Three more million valve-
sets were, it is true, to be pro-
duced by 1950, but all this does
not amount to much in British
terms.
The point is that this little goes
a long way, for only the privi-
leged few have their own private
sets. Most sets are installed in
soldiers’ or workers’ clubs, in
factories, canteens and schools.
In blocks of flats a single set
can relay the programme to all
the occupants. So it is possible
that the State radio reaches the
bulk of the urban population.
In the countryside, on the other
hand, diffusion is more difficult*
because electricity is lacking in
most districts, crystal-sets pre-
dominate and batteries are
scarce.
In theory the air knows no
frontiers. In practice, the com-
bination of communal listening,
the relay-system and the crystal-
set almost completely eliminates
foreign influence. Where the
Soviet broadcast can reach, the
broadcast from abroad cannot
usually follow, and the privileged
bureaucrats with their own valve-
sets are the only people exposed
to contamination by foreign
propaganda.
Soviet radio thus enjoys a
monopoly within its own fron-
tiers and a share in the world’s
air. Each day it broadcasts with
one voice but in 70 different
languages to the people of the
Soviet Union. Each day Moscow
broadcasts its messages in 35
foreign languages, but again with
one voice, for listeners abroad.
It reigns supreme within its own
territory. It dominates from the
Pacific to the Elbe, It sends
messages to the faithful in Paris
or in Rome. However crude or
monotonous it has been made,
Lenin’s “journal without paper”
is the most powerful weapon in
the propaganda arsenal of the
Soviet regime.


Doing a Great Job
The Police
Boys' Clubs
By "MACNELL"
[“More than 200 people yesterday
Jeered a police constable who was
punched and kicked while trying to
arrest a man at Bondi Junction.
‘Several men punched and kicked
me. No one ottered to help,’ said
the policeman.”—Sydney newspaper
report.]
A FRECKLE - FACED
nipper of 14, with
swimming-togs clutched in
one hand and a chocolate-
bar in the other, rose from bis
neatly-made bed in the hut as
we approached. He looked up
inquiringly, interrupting the
demolition work.
“How do you feel about
policemen, lad?” I asked.
The freckles merged into a
grin. '
“Gee, sir,” he answered,
emphatically and decisively, “I
think they’re great!”
That spontaneous judgment
should be compensation enough
for the work done by the police-
men of the world-known N.S.W.
Police Boys’ Clubs and their
Camp Mackay, in the Kurra-
jongs. Had there been, among
that jeering crowd at Bondi
Junction, a couple of the boys,
now grown to manhood, who
had passed through Camp
Mackay, the story would have
been different. For in this camp,
and in the 30-odd clubs through-
out N.S.W., boys between the
ages of eight and 14 are being
taught, unobtrusively and solely
by example, that a policeman is
their friend; a person whose
manhood they can trust —the
antithesis of the “mug copper.”
When they leave the clubs, they
go among their kind as-unofficial
ambassadors of the force. •
Founded in 1938 by Sergeant
Percival Stevens, Camp Mackay
is the ideal holiday spot for lads
from the industrial areas with
which the police clubs mainly
deal. We left the main Kurra-
jong Heights road for a gravel
track winding in through tall
gums, an upper-reach finger of
the Hawkesbury below to the
right. The camp is set on a rike
in 130 acres, rolling back to the
folds of bush-clothed hills all
round.
A tall, lean man with the
narrowed eyes, hawk nose and
ready grin of the bushman
greeted us.
“I’m Corrigan,” he said.
“Glad to have you.”
Sergeant Tom Corrigan, 25
years in the force, most of them
at Clarence-street and Darling-
hurst, hails from the Northern
Rivers corner of N.S.W., and
has been in charge of the camp
for the past five years. Before
that he was assistant to Stevens,
when the scheme started.
Then, working with a few
volunteers from Sydney over
weekends, they put up a shack
or two. Now the camp runs to a
score or so well-built huts and
mess-halls, a farm running stud-
Jerseys and pigs, a model orchard
of 1000 orange- and apple-trees,
and, to serve farm, orchard and
the camp’s lawny environs, a
high-capacity pump on the creek
below. Except for one piece of
welding on the pump, Corrigan
and his helpers rigged the lot.
A queue of nippers waited on
the wide veranda outside the
dining-hall.
“Lunch,” said Corrigan,
“They get half-an-hour.” He
grinned. “That’s enough. I tell
you they don’t take long, those
fellers.”
The dining-hall is reached
through a large rec.-room with
billiard- and pingpong-tables
and an enormous fireplace. Over
it, sculpted in cement, runs the
legend:
“Welcome to the Boy's
Camp.”
The lad who did that was
killed in the war; so they leave
the apostrophe where it is.
The green and red tables soon
empty again, lunch having been
disposed of by stomachs that
have been hiking and swimming
all the hqt morning, only the
five “waiters” remain, hoeing in
for their delayed cut at a table in
a corner.
“Any trouble getting volun-
teers for waiting?”
“When there’s leftovers in the
kitchen! . . . No, no trouble
with volunteers.” ‘
The carnp is the compleat holi-
day. All the boys do is enjoy
themselves and work up an
appetite for three hot meals a
day. There are three “noV’ —
no pillow-fighting, no talking at
meals and no strap. Corrigan
has found that a spell at the
camp is so appreciated that the
boys are their own prefects;
though they are never without
an instructor, whether sleeping,
swimming or showering. The
club using the camp sends up its
own instructors with its detach-
ment ; so that the kids get to
know those policemen about as
well as their own Dads.
After lunch we found another
queue outside the canteen.
Each boy on entering hands in
all possessions—to relieve temp-
tation —and is credited on a
canteen-sheet with his allowance
of cash. He draws on it —
chocolate, ice-cream—till the
bank’s exhausted. Some, of
course, land in camp with only
a few pence. Corrigan, watching
the canteen-sheet, looks after
that.
Artist Hawley began sketch-
ing. The soft-drink bottles and
ice-creams were, temporarily,
lowered. One by one, the
“models” casually got up and
strolled, avec ice-cream and
bottles, to position
themselves in the
artist’s line of sight.
“Mum’ll be tickled
to see me pitcher in the
paper,” supimed-up the
general intention..,.
Next, into a sleeping-
hut. On each bare wire-
mattress, with rolled-
up bedding forming a
pillow, stretched,
quietly, 15-odd nippers,
travelling spacewards
via comic-books. It was
a studious scene. Sud-
denly a barelegged
bundle of energy
erupted into the room,
shrilly vociferous.
“Hey, kids! Sir’s gonner take
us swimming!”
Bedlam!
When the tumult had died,
Corrigan explained the rolled-
back bedding.
“You’ll notice the ‘Y’-shaped
metal strands in those wire-
mattresses? It wasn’t till one kid
fell through his that we found
out what good shanghai-forks
they make.” . . .
Our tour takes in also a
cinema which many a country
town would envy. The lads put
on their own plays, self-written
and -directed —when, that is,
they’re not looking at films,
mainly, of course. Westerns.
There are 25 Police-Citizens’
Boys’ Clubs actually functioning
in the State, with another nine
being formed. Burwood Club,
with a membership of 2000, is
possibly-the largest. Here, in a
two-story block—spiced, at time
of visiting, with the smell of
fresh paint—Sergeant Lance
Hodges, a big, brown-faced man
with a sudden intensity of gaze,
holds enthusiastic sway.
Burwood is typical of the
clubs, whose operation has
resumed in a definite decrease in
juvenile delinquency. Hodges
remembers the years he spent on
duty in Redfern; the boys
grouped on street-corners. Then
he would disperse them with a
“Beat it!,” knowing that they
had nowhere to beat it to, and
that all he* was doing was
developing a breed of highly
efficient lookouts for approach-
ing police. Now he has the
answer to the challenge of street-
corners.
But Hodges emphatically
refutes any notion that police
clubs are homes for delinquents.
They’re nothing like that at all.
Thev’re clubs for boys.
“We do get some characters—
and many of these, in talks with
parents, we’ve put into congenial
apprenticeships. And we get
boys from the best homes in the
district, sent here so they’ll learn
to mix. They do —have a look
at this.”
The main gymnasium, 90ft.
long, was a lively scene of energy
and mateship. Boys on parallel-
bars ; boys tumbling; boys
heaving medicine-balls on the
polished floor which, on Satur-
day nights, metamorphoses into
a dance-hall.
At the far end, past a stage
with scenery designed and
painted by a constable-instruc-
tor, and on which the boys’ own
jazz-band gives forth, is the
weight-lifting section. An older
lad, his chest and arms enviably
developed, was checking a nipper
of 10 from lifting too heavy a
weight.
“We don’t have to worry
about damage done through
strain. These boys of seventeen
and eighteen started here when
they were thirteen—you’d think
they were paid professionals the
way they mother the nippers.”
Threading through the grunts,
we came to the wrestling-ring.
In here, a room redolent with
sweat and liniment, started Don
McDonald. Last year he repre-
sented Australia at the Helsinki
Olympics.
“We’re not after champions,
you know—the idea is to con-
centrate on the averagers.”
Yet the clubs have a first-
class record of champions pro-
duced. Jimmy Carr others, Lewis
Hoad (his old club, Glebe, the
only one with a tennis-court),
Sheffield Shield cricketer Ray
Flockton, amateur flyweight
champion Neville Rincheval,
and a good many others from
the clubs have reached eminence
in sport.
“Strangely enough, we find
that boxing kills the bullying
instinct. Perhaps it’s because the
bully, in the ring with a compe-
tent lad, learns what it’s like to
be on the receiving end.”
On the second floor, a room
mounting half a dozen wood-
work benches, boys were hard at
it making toys.
“One for themselves they can
take home and show the old
man. The others go to crippled
children.”
In the sound-proof music-
room —given over, during the
day, to instruction of sub-
normal children —are taught the
violin, piano, flute and the
instruments that go to make a
military band. Hodges is proud
of his band—when it marches
forth the bearing of the boys is
the standard by which the public
judge his club. And that judg-
ment is indicated by the fact
that, within three months of the
proposed formation of the club,
Burwood Rotary and the police
raised £BOOO.
But the particular baby of the
hefty Hodges is silk-screen work.
The dozen or so lads he has got
interested make pendants for
other clpbs, for life-saving asso-
ciations and schools. All pro-
ceeds go into club funds. And
there’s the rub. Burwood Club
takes £2OOO a year to run. There
is no charge for membership, nor
are there allowed any drives
which smack in the slightest of
gambling. So finance is a con-
stant worry. Considering what
he and his club are doing, the
coffers should be full.
Halting at the cup-lined win-
dow of his office, the sounds of
100 - odd happily - occupied
youngsters reaching us from the
gym., Hodges gave us his “best-
remembered” incident.
“Constable at the time, not
long after I started here. In
uniform. I turned suddenly
round the bank corner. Squat-
ting on a ledge were three kids.
I came on ’em unawares. One,
a strange face to me, got up
quickly. I heard him say ‘Here
comes a damn’ copper.’ One of
the other lads, a club-member,
looked up, saw me, and hissed
at the first informant That’s not
a damn’ copper. That’s Con-
stable Hodges.’ ”
Which seems to sum it all up
pretty well.
The White Doves
The white doves pick red berries up from the snow
Delicately weaving their pink feet to and fro;
There is no way to know
The white doves from the falling white of snow.
The garden is green with age,
With age the old temple is lined.
But the leaves are green.
Green as the spring is blind.
The white boy leans from the fountain
Inane and alone.
Yesterday I thought his heart not stone.
Yesterday under the vines we lay.
Two spirits with doves on our lips,
Night’s wings in our hair;
Night-dark the shadows and still everywhere.
Clear and blue as the air
Love was, and new, yet as old as the temple.
As greenly old as spring . . .
The rain of leaves in the garden,
Green tears of the trees
Falling, curled with the dew of death,
Blown to our feet with a breath,
A chilling and killing breath.
Out in the snow the white doves move
Fantastically picking at love.
Little sin do not run out in the snow,
Little conspicuous sin . . . you would show.
N.S.W.
PIXIE O’HARRIS.


President of
Associated Stock Exchanges
of Australia recommends the
17th SECURITY LOAN
'•
m
m
Wm S
The Chairman of the Sydney Stock Exchange
and President of the Associated Stock
Exchanges of Australia, Mr. Ralph W . King,
says Loan is important factor in
national development .
“The States of Australia have undertaken vast
works programmes to meet the needs of an
expanding population, and many of these works—
transport, irrigation and water conservation, pre-
vention of soil erosion, hospitals, housing, harbour
improvements, all vital to the progress of Australia
—still require Loan Funds.
“An investment in the 17th Security Loan, secured
as it is on the whole of the assets of Australia, is
one that the keen investor, large or small, cannot
afford to overlook.
“As President of the Associated Stock Exchanges
of Australia, I have no hesitation in recommending
the Loan, and would appeal to all those with funds
at their disposal to play their part in the progress
of Australia and the development of our
nation.
“Members of the Stock Exchanges
will again make available all their
t facilities in a co-operative effort to
I ensure the success of die Loan.”
THESE ARE THE BASIC INVESTMENT FACTS
ABOUT THE COMMONWEALTH (17th SECURITY) LOAN
AMOUNT SOUGHT: £77,000,000 in new cash and in
conversions of Two per cent. Commonwealth Securities matur-
ing on April 15, 1953 (see below).
INTEREST RATES: Investors may select;
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
3%
PER ANNUM
issued at £99/10/- per cent.,
and maturing on Decem-
ber 15, 1955, or
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4 \%
PER ANNUM
issued at par, and maturing
on September 15, 1962.
LOAN PURPOSES: The 17 th Security Loan will
provide money for public works and services of the Common-
wealth and the States and for redemption of unconverted
maturing Two' per cent, securities.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: Bonds for the per cent, issue are
available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Minimum subscription for the longer term is £lO of Bonds or
£lOO of Inscribed Stock. Investors, who already hold £lOO of
Stock in any loan, may subscribe £lO or any multiple of £lO
for additional Stock. Minimum subscription for the short
term is £l,OOO, either for Bonds or Inscribed Stock, with
higher amounts in multiples of £l,OOO.
INSTALMENTS: Subscribers may deposit 10 per cent,
and pay the balance in either one or three instalments by
August 1, 1953.
REPAYMENT: Repayment in full at maturity of face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Government.
INCOME TAX REBATE: For the period during which
no Income Tax is levied under the law of a State, a rebate
of Commonwealth taxation of 2/- in respect of each £1 of
interest from this Loan will be allowed in accordance with
the provisions of the Income Tax and Social Services Contri-
bution Assessment Act, 1936-1952.
WHERE TO APPLY: Any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office, or Stockbroker will receive applications for
cash subscriptions or for conversions.
CONVERSION:
Holders o£ £47,000,000 of Two per cent. Bonds and
Inscribed Stock which mature on April 15, 1953, are
invited to convert their securities into the 17th
Security Loan. Those who select Three per cent.
Bonds or Inscribed Stock will receive a cash payment
of 10/- per cent. The Two per cent, securities
affected are those issued in the Bth Security Loan
(September-October, 1949) and the 9th Security
Loan (March, 1950).
Invest
in the
Commonwecilt
i
(17th Security)


The Busker and the
mademoiselle
by Clive Barry
I WAS a dud at school, but
when at last they shouldered
me out into the big harsh
world I realised that educa-
tion was bread-and-butter. So
I decided to learn French.
For finance I sold remarkable
postcards on Cook’s corner.
Place de la Madeleine. For
energy I stuck to benzedrine and
black coffee. Soon I had
absorbed enough education to
pass unnoticed on the Rive
Gosh.
I graduated from street-
vendor to dance-instructor to
playmate to professional card-
dealer until finally I knew
enough to finesse a trick as
travelling interpreter to a
mahogany-haired Parisienne who
owned an overweight figure, a
thriving business and a lady-cat
that had more finesse than I and
the Parisienne put together.
As travelling interpreter to the
overweight mademoiselle I
brushed up on geography. We
drove down the Kurfiirsten-
damm, taxied up Via Veneto,
battled along Grossefreiheit-
strasse, gondola-ed in Canal
Grande, strolled around Piazza
Esedra and paddled about
Lac Leman. Under the
mademoiselle’s direction I
handed out printed cards to
shady-looking young men.
Between stints as interpreter
I chaperoned the lady-cat;
combed smoky fur, warmed
saucers of milk and grenadine,
ironed neck - ribbons and
worried. The lady-cat escaped
me once in a Palermo back-
street where an unfortunate
encounter with a sinewy Tom
left her with a wicked eye and
a reckless taste which I found
hard to subdue.
ONE evening the three of us
shot into Victoria Station on
the Golden Arrow from Paris.
The mademoiselle wanted to
extend fields of business and also
to experience the manners and
culture of England. I undertook
to reveal English manners and
culture to the lady-cat and to the
mademoiselle. I led them to
believe that I was thoroughly
acquainted with London,
although in fact this was my first
visit.
I showed them Marble Arch
and Piccadilly because my Dad
spoke long and feelingly about
those places after the First
Stoush. I showed them the
Serpentine and Australia House,
and I showed them how to sit in
a lounge and order drinks just
like the English do.
The doorman of the Monico
Grill had a red coat,
sergeant’s-stripes and tele-
phone-numbers for sale. I
gave him one of the
mademoiselle’s appoint-
ment-cards, The waiter
had an obsequious
approach and the winner
of the next race. Neither
was genuine. I gave him
the mademoiselle’s
appointment-card, too.
I ordered tea and cakes
for mademoiselle as an
exercise in English culture.
I ordered refreshment for
the lady - cat on the
mademoiselle’s account. I
added rum to the jug of milk,
gave a little in the cat’s saucer
and crouched furtively over the
rest.
Presently a shapely individual
approached and vibrated con-
fidently into my ear: “My
dear, you look positively distinc-
tive.”
I pointed rum-rinsed eyes at
the shapely individual. Shapely
jabbed back with a wide-eyed
sparkle.
“Yairs,” I cried. “Positively
distinctive.” It sounded brave.
“Darling, you look positively
arid.” A weird perfume made
one of my teeth ache. Shapely
stood over me darkly like the
shadow of a doubt.
“I’m thirsty, too,” I added.
Dryly.
“My dear, you simply must
come to my place,” was the
invitation. “I have some posi-
tively wonderful Polish vodka,”
I rumpled my forehead and
scoured an ear with a thumb-
nail. The tailored slacks were
hippy, the hair-do was rococo,
there was powder on the nose,
but the beauty-spot convinced
me. It was too subtle to be
feminine.
“Mister,” I guessed. “I love
Polish vodka. But not at your
place. Positively.”
I gave my attention back to
the lady-cat. Presently Shapely
trotted away. Daintily.
I sat in the Monico Grill,
positively distinctive, my dear,
making friends with the lady-cat.
The lady-cat was a long-haired
smoky Persian, couched on a
well-stocked belly, dreamily
contemplating imminent
maternity. She glittered from
the shadows of the overweight
mademoiselle.
'THE overweight mademoiselle
sipped lemon tea and
endured the artificial atmosphere
of the Monico Grill through a
pricey fur-coat. I sipped milk-
punch and enjoyed the rippled
stipple of brocaded upholstery
through threadbare pants.
Occasionally I strained eyes
through open doors of the
Monico Grill to where neons
shimmered nervously in twilight
and glinted on long Windsors-
de-luxe, Super Snipes, Mercury
station-wagons crawling out of
Piccadilly, Theatre - queues
formed along Shaftesbury-
avenue. Light rain streaked
Rheingold through passing head-
Between lines of sluggish
traffic a shabby busker was dis-
robing on Shaftesbury-avenue.
Through open doors of the
Monico Grill I gaped at the
unwonted spectacle. A shabby
busker stripping off oily
dungarees.
The smoky Persian reclaimed
my attention with a tingling poke
from a well-honed claw. I
wagged a finger at her; saucily.
She bridled. I curled up my
tongue and purred in the back of
my neck. That was the best she
had heard in weeks. She rolled
four legs up in the air.
Roguishly.
Under oily dungarees were
black silk trunks and a singlet.
The front half of the singlet was
a Union Jack, and the back
represented autumn night-sky
with splashy white stars to plot
the Southern Cross. Under light
rain the colors ran. The gaudy
busker was throwing tumbling
stuff along the centre of the
camber. I’ve seen better
tumbling by fat ladies on
escalators,
SHAPELY reappeared with a
quart of Wisniowka seventy-
per-cent.-proof made in Poland.
Rich fumes arose when the cork
came out.
“You like cats, darling?” he
asked me as he filled the lady-
cat’s saucer. “My dear, there’s a
cat at my place you simply must
see.”
“Bring it along any time,” I
hedged. “I’ll take a look at it.”
“Blup, blup, blup,” said the
lady cat to the Wisniowka.
The overweight mademoiselle
regarded Shapely over the
Cossack collar of her lavish
ensemble. Her chins undulated
opulently as she masticated
bilious pastries swathed in frilly
icing. She snuggled deeper into
her Canadian wild mink.
Now a lot of lady means a lot
mink. And a lot of mink means
a lot of cash. That’s all Shapely
asked for. He smiled deter-
minedly and surged a little. It
wasn’t that hard.
“Un peu de the ?” she offered.
Her teapot had a few drips left
for the saucer. She had cleaned-
up the mountain of cakes with
a speed that made the waiter
jump. The waiter brought a
fresh mountain. The smoky
Persian hooked fine white claws
through Shapely’s trouser and
scored Jiim from knee to ankle.
Shapely whimpered. Shapely
had the backbone of a gumboil.
“The mademoiselle asks do
you like some tea,” I told
Shapely; severely.
“Yes;,” said Shapely in the
English fashion to rhyme witli
sneers. “Yes, please, madame.”
“Volontiers,” I told the
mademoiselle. “Don’t touch the
cakes,” I told Shapely.
The smoky Persian raked
Shapely again with both fists,
but he stifled the scream.
“I like your cat, Madame,” he
chirped like the spunky little man
he was. I interpreted for
Shapely. He had never been
French-polished.
A DISTURBANCE in the
street drew our attentions.
The vivid busker_wasjaretendin£_
to be nearly run over.
Between tumbles, the
busker was taking a greasy
beret and a shifty look
around theatre - queues.
And getting little. He
dodged crawling traffic
with artfully - stumbling
footsteps to make the job look
dangerous. He had no marquee
glamor, only a sort of controlled
panic.
Rain stopped, and last blue of
day-sky showed behind television
aerials. Evening clouds as usual
looked ragged like driven sheep
without the dust.
The busker broke out an outfit
of silver hoops and magician’s
paraphernalia. He built-up and
chattered over sour background
chords from blinking traffic.
Nothing much happened in the
way of magic, but the build-up
was grand; so he bowed and
retrieved pennies and bowed and
retrieved pennies and bowed and
retrieved pennies. Most of his
income was from American
sailors.
“Here, my good man,” I
called. So the busker came over
for a tarnished threepence. He
came right into the foyer with
deep carpets past the doorman
who had sergeant-stripes and was
red-coated like a Buckingham
Palace guard.
“Jolly good luck to you,” said
the busker.
“Qu’est -ce qu’il dit ?”
prodded the mademoiselle.
“Colonial accent, my dear,”
commented Shapely. “Posi-
tively vile,”
“Yairs,” I sympathised.
“Pretty warby.” But to me the
accent was sweet as Queensland
pineapples and welcome as day’s
end in the planting season.
“Qu’est-ce qu’il dit?”
A kangaroo was embroidered
on. the busker’s beret over a
boomerang.
“You’re Australian,” I told
him. My perspicacity amazed
him. He almost didn’t stop roll-
ing a cigarette.
“How’s business?” I inquired.
The busker told me that prac-
tically every time he needed a
drink he had the price of one
although sometimes it came high.
He had no worries about the
future, he said. Maybe there
won’t be one, he said. A man
has no worries if he lives cleanly
and honestly, he said, A faintly
oppressive optimist, he was.
The man who was clean and
honest went back into the middle
of Shaftesbury-avenue ot bounce
along the asphalt again.
“Qu’est-ce qu’il dit ?”
At last he pulled oily
dungarees over his circus suit.
66T ET’S eat, my dear,” said
•*-' Shapely through me to
the mademoiselle. The
mahogany - haired Parisienne
sighed relievedly. She stood up
too eagerly, and as usual I
steadied her. She observed when
the blackout passed that appar-
ently the exertion was too much
for her. Any exertion at all was
too much for that overstuffed
carcass.
The mademoiselle wanted
English life and culture; so
come into Frith-street, I said.
Some good old English atmo-
sphere, I said. I waved my hand
grandly at the rows of feed-
joints; Cucina Italiana,
I’Escargot, Chez Auguste,
Hungarian Csarda, Istanbul
Restaurant, Isola Bella, Choy’s
Chinese, Albion Indian.
I thought of a number,
counted them out and arrived at
La Belle Etoile. The occupa-
tional optimist on the door
clicked his heels. Svelte.
“Weather’s clearing, madame.”
Mademoiselle gave him sixpence.
I gave him one of mademoiselle’s
appointment-cards.
The mademoiselle gave two-
bob to the all-purpose worrier
who showed us our seats. Last
time I saw this fellow he was
selling Parker-pens and illegal
American cigarettes in Naples.
I gave him an appointment-card.
“Take a seat if you don’t
mind,” he said. We didn’t mind.
The largesse stank. The
crustaceous conductor had a
fiddle and a predilection for
Strauss’s “Per Rosenkavalier.”
As we sat, the orchestra
functioned.
Shapely discoursed lengthily
on his knowledge of wines and
the mademoiselle flattered him.
I sat between them and they
talked right through me. Sur-
prising how popular you can be
if you flatter a man’s knowledge
of wine. Under the
mademoiselle’s flattery Shapely
began to sound like a financier,
philanthropist and viniculturist.
“Quel style” bubbled the
mademoiselle.
“Terrific taste you got,” I
translated.
“Some people are born with
good taste,” simpered Shapely.
“And some people are born with
bad taste.”
Yairs. And those with the
good taste decide who has
which. Profligate in monologue
was Shapely. With breeding and
taste. I struggled with the trans-
lation but it fell flat. I took the
Wisniowka away from the smoky
“Take it easy , Charlie — he's only laughin' at y'."


BRANDAUER'S
PENS
sd
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER. 8.A.. B.Sc.,
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
'
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO“B-ARRBRH
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. SN), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRY LEARY late of Sydney
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE EMMA KATE LEARY has filed a
Petition for divorce No. 216 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion for 3 years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd day of June 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition free of charge from R. G.
B. TEMPLEMAN, Solicitor, of 180 Church
Street, Parramatta. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO BERYL JEAN WILKINSON formerly
of Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
FREDERICK GEORGE WILKINSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1049 of
1950 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 10th day of June
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN WARREN
BINNEY, Solicitor, of 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
mr->
■*<
,
*
t/te otifteb tiacri
The young man confidently
faces the future . . . the elder
man thanks a National Mutual
Policy for contributing to a
carefree retirement.
A small regular contribution will
provide a tidy nest egg. Call,
write or ring 8L1271. An ex-
perienced officer will gladly
advise you without obligation.
The Association is owned by
its Policyholders, who alone
share all profits.
m
LIFE ASSOCIATION A'ASIA, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869 {lncU,Vic - )
HEAD OFFICE; 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
350 George St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
290 Queen St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA;
King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
TASMANIA;
Macquarie St., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
Chief Office; Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
Persian and poured it in like a
parched wooer after a bout with
the girl’s father.
Thus fortified I listened to
Shapely’s dogged, worthy,
thorough, dull dissertations.
Stimulating, was Shapely. Like
a dose of bromide, I was on
top of my form with nothing to
say for myself at all.
r THE lights flicked off. I
A blamed the Wisniowka.
There was a sudden gleam in
the dull eye of the mauve spot-
light and the orchestra-leader
announced a singer. The singer
was the Australian from Shaftes-
bury-avenue. We all recognised
him. Although this time his
name was D,i Giuseppe, with
orchestrations and a false
moustache, which to diners
denoted culture. Colorful and
exotic.
From behind disordered teeth
came a scraping voice with
drought-dust in it. It was the
voice of a drover singing to
sheep, except the words were
foreign. Diners clapped and
stamped their feet. Yelled for
him to came back. His act as a
Latin was a success. The ovation
was as boisterous as the top surf
of the season with a boatload
of lunatics that just love it.
He shot a pixyish glance into
the smoke-filled spotlight. He
vocalised. He bowed. The
moustache fell off. The lights
blushed soft and pink like an
Eton schoolboy. The orchestra
throbbed and couples thronged
the dance-floor.
“Voild un type,” indicated the
mademoiselle.
I went over and gave an
appointment-card to the Aus-
tralian. I asked him to eat with
us. He never hesitated.
CJHAPELY’S respect for the
mademoiselle had increased.
As was her custom, she had
ordered every dish on the bill of
fare, and now was attacking the
Shish Kebab a la Grecque on
wooden skewers with bay leaves
as though she feared being driven
mad by malnutrition. She
snarled at the heavily-loaded
skewer. The skewer leapt into
her maw and was half-finished.
Shapely developed a twitch.
Jumpy as high cheese, he was.
He gabbled to the Australian
while he regained poise.
“Honey, how positively excit-
ing to earn your kind of living.”
“The screw is lousy,” grunted
the Australian vaudevillian.
Shapely turned to me:
“Incredible, my dear, what can
happen to a language among
backward people.”
“Fair go,” I grumbled.
“This swab makes me sick,”
said the Australian.
Shapely chucked the Aus-
tralian under the chin, patronis-
ingly. But he elbowed the
Wisniowka on to the carpet and
spoiled the effect. The smoky
Persian lolloped heavily on to the
carpet and began mopping-up
operations. Her purring was
punctuated with staccato
hiccoughs.
For mademoiselle’s benefit the
Australian told his story in
French. He came to Europe as
a six-day bike-rider touring
saucers rigged outside Con-
tinental townships. He lost his
mate in a smash near Ghent. He
lorry-hopped- to England. As
an English tramp he had kept
moving with dosshouses over
ten miles apart. The law forbids
using the same dosshouse twice.
As a vaudevillian he was find-
ing the game tough at the top
and wellnigh impossible at the
bottom. His adolescent days
were gone, he said. He was half-
way between the mature and the
doddering, he said. He had
white-frost hair but he looked
sturdy to me, and, game for a
few turns yet.
As she listened, the
mademoiselle never missed a
mouthful. After a time, in
response to a syncopated
summons from the conductor,
the vaudevillian went back to
the spotlight and vocalised, I’ve
heard sweeter singing from over-
strained Toms in Palermo
back-streets.
TTTE mademoiselle finished the
A Shish Kebab a la Grecque,
the entire Camembert, the
cotoletta milanese and the
bifstek pommes frites. She ate
herself into a grassy-eyed daze.
Shapely offered to dance with
her. She stood up too eagerly and
passed out. I took charge. I
comforted a few screaming
women. I reassured the
orchestra - leader. We
straightened her-out on the plush
sofa. 1 put my ear to where her
heart ought to be jerking. My
ear echoed back from the fatty
strata, same as it does from
boarding-house mattresses on
hot nights. The Persian was
shrieking in sympathy. Shapely
was combing his hair.
“Distressing,” commented
Shapely, “We were becoming
such close friends, my dear.”
“Yairs,” I told him.
“Darling, I think she posi-
tively overeats.”
“Aw, shut up.”
“My dear, how bold of you to
speak like that.”
“Yairs.”
The bulbous body on the plush
sofa heaved and quaked. The
Persian seized the opportunity
to extricate a flattened tail.
“Help me, help me,” croaked
the mademoiselle. “This posi-
tion makes me suffer.” Her own
weight was crushing her lungs.
Her eyes were glazed to a blood-
curdling blue.
“Yairs,” I said.
“Those printed cards you hand
out, my dear,” said Shapely.
“Yairs?”
“Quickly,” moaned the
mademoiselle. “I’m strangling.”
“I want one, darling.”
“Want one?”
> “Want one.”
“Aidez-moi, .mon Dieu.”
“Yairs.”
“I want one, my dear. Other-
wise I call a policeman and
explain your filthy little game.”
“Filthy little game?”
“Filthy little game.”
C|TRIFE. I raked my scalp.
Thoughtfully. With ten
fingers. I ran for the Wisniowka,
opened my throat and poured.
Tfie mademoiselle lowered lids
and resumed her daze.
If in trouble dial nine nine
nine. Shapely trotted outside and
flagged a policeman. What’s
more the policeman came. Two
saucer-eyed doll-faced damsels
thumbing for trade turned in
Shapely’s direction, saw their
mistake and desisted.
The policeman opened a note-
book. The conference gained
prestige. “I want a printed card,
darling.”
I hawked and spat and fiddled
with my fountain-pen. I gave
an appointment-card to Shapely.
Grudgingly,
Meanwhile the mademoiselle
revived, saw the policeman, and
fainted again. Next time she
came up I explained the position
to her. I uprighted her at the
table. She hoed into a work-
man’s portion of Madras curry
lubricated with pint tankards of
Bass ale. I drained the Polish
hoopla.
The policeman seemed satis-
fied, and departed. Shapely was
mislaid.
The mademoiselle and the lady-
cat and I sat through “Maul Me,
Adam” at the Coliseum. We
suppered among the pastry-
quaffing populace in Leicester-
square. We had a feed for luck
in a back-street cellar where the
sign says: English spoken—Men
spreekt Vlaams ; and we took
half-a-dozen cartons of jellied
eels home in case the night was
long and tedious.
TV'EXT day was Sunday after-
noon. I was shuddering
over my ration of black coffee
and benzedrine when the door-
clanger clanged, I led in the
sergeant-doorman from the
Monico Grill and his racing
waiter. They presented their
appointment-cards.
I led them in to the
mademoiselle, who was gaining
momentum over her third break-
fast. Her bed-cover was littered
with dishes like canvas-back
duck, deep - freeze edibles,
chocolate - covered baked
bananas, guavas, feijoas, per-
simmons, pomegranates.
Among the food were five
smoky kittens with sharp wet
tails. I transferred the menagerie
to the drawing-room. The
smoky Persian had endowed her
offspring with gummed-up eye-
lids, delirium tremens and
hangovers from the Wisniowka.
I put ash-trays on the carpet and
filled them with creme-de-cacao.
I needn’t have bothered.
The door-clanger clanged. I
ushered in the doorman and
waiter from La Belle Etoile.
They swelled the crowd in the
mademoiselle’s bedroom. I
spoke business to the four men.
Presently they left. They were
cramming passports and French
banknotes into their pockets.
Shapely trotted in next,
bright-eyed like an adrenalin
fan. The rain had obliterated his
eyebrows.
“You’re not suitable,” I told
him. “No stamina.”
“Darling, we’ll let the madame
decide.” He took off his hair-net
and slicked his locks. The
mademoiselle regarded him
fondly.
Shapely was disgusted when
the business was explained.
“You think I’m that sort of
slut?” he spat.
“Quel dommage, ma cocotte,’’
munched the mademoiselle.
Wistfully. Shapely retired to the
drawing-room to fondle the lady-
cat. Expertly.
The Australian clomped in
damply with an apology. He
was delayed by work, he said.
He was sandwich-man for the
Lost Property Office, he said.
His relief turned up late, he
said.
“What’s the gen?” he
demanded. “An overseas job,
right?”
“Overseas job,” I agreed.
“Promoting goodwill,”
“What’s it worth?” he
demanded. “Terrific salary,
right?”
“Terrific salary,” I agreed.
“And travelling expenses and
fake passports, right?”
“Right.”
“You want companions for
rich old ducks, right?” he
demanded. “Fve knocked this
offer back before.”
» I was shocked,
i “I don’t earn much,” admitted
• the vaudevillian. “But I hafter
retain me self-respect, right?”
“You’re a lousy vaudevillian,”
1 I reminded him.
, “Right,” he agreed. He belted
his cheap limp old mackintosh
and had the door open before I
grabbed him.
“You got the wrong idea,” I
explained. “We recruit members
for the French Communist
Propaganda Department. We
need an army of publicises. We
want posters on every wall in
France. Messages whitewashed
on every highway. Pamphlets in
every home. Reminders on every
telegraph-pole.” I was good at
this stuff.
“You Communist, right?”
“For forty-thousand francs a
week I back anyone. For you it
means comfort and high living,
ease and no problems.”
The vaudevillian had a lot to
say. His voice was hard and
hot and dry like outback winds
through scorched mulga. His
drift was roughly that living has
more and better to offer than
high salaries and soft habits.
There’s fun in living, he said.
It’s not all filth and shrewdness
and dissimulated hatreds, he said.
It’s not all graft and rackets, he
said. There’s honest work and
dinkumness and mateship and
clean health, he said. Right? he
said.
“Wrong,” I said. He was
making my neck ache. His
words had the sting of ether in a
scent-spray.
Shapely snickered antemically.
The vaudevillian left. Through
drawing - room windows I
watched him squelch away under
streaming beeches, chestnuts,
sycamores in the garden suburb.
Honest work, dinkumness, mate-
ship and clean health, he said.
6 < M Y dear, you , look posi-
lively arid.” I took the
long glass of yellow viscosity
from Shapely. I sluiced it in his
face. Shapely sobbed and ran
for the mademoiselle.
I gave myself another reflec-
tive look at the grey drizzling
world. I pulled two kittens out
of one ash-tray and drank the
creme-de-cacao. I peeked at
Shapely and the mademoiselle.
I seemed to be redundant.
Next day I stood at the
entrance to the Monico Grill
with sergeant’s - stripes, red
jacket and too much time to
think.


Helpers of Worried Diggers
WAR PENSIONS
TRIBUNALS
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
COMPARATIVELY few
Diggers know much about
their rights and privileges
under the Repatriation
Act, of which one of the more
important is their right of appeal
to an independent tribunal.
Ironically, it is often the most
deserving cases who know least
about these things.
I didn’t know much myself
the day I started at the Legal
Service Bureau. My boss there,
Ted Roberts, sketched the out-
line, while he conversed with
clients over two telephones and
dictated letters. The first M.M.
on Gallipoli, a former State
president of the R.S.L., he has
been since 1918 a close student of
soldier rehabilitation and the
complex medico-legal problems
these matters sometimes entail.
And working with him is like
keeping up with a buzz-saw.
In Sydney, the tribunals do
their big job in the Grace Build-
ing, administrative H.Q. of the
Repatriation Department in
N.S.W. Up and down corridors
troop lost ex-servicemen and —in
season shirt-sleeved clerks
bearing innumerable files. Lifts
are crowded. The place has the
authentic flavor of a large
Government institution.
In contrast, the atmosphere of
an assessment tribunal is
pleasant and informal. That
was my first impression, con-
firmed since by a great number
of appellants who, even though
their appeals (for a higher rate
of war pension) were disallowed,
were grateful for the courtesy
shown them by the tribunal.
Put like that, it doesn’t sound
very much. But it was wonderful
to see some poor worried devil’s
resentment and bewilderment
melt away under a little skilful
questioning.
The Repatriation Act lays
down that each assessment
tribunal shall have as chairman
a returned soldier who had been
admitted to practice as a
solicitor or barrister in a
State Supreme Court. The
Minister makes the appointment
from a list of qualified nominees
submitted by any organisation
representing returned soldiers
throughout the Commonwealth.
In practice different organisations
submit different nominees,
although, as in the case of
Colonel Vatl, No. 6 Tribunal
chairman, who was nominated
by both the R.S.L. and the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association,
the same name could appear on
different lists.
This provision for the selec-
tion of chairmen is an important
one, and a right jealously
guarded by the various ex-
servicemen’s organisations. By
the time potential nominees have
been considered and sifted by the
organisations, from a State to
a Federal level, and reduced to
a list of three from each
organisation, and by the time the
Minister has made his selection,
an obviously high standard has
been reached.
The chairman is appointed for
a term not exceeding five years
—it is usually three years—and
is eligible for reappointment.
The two other members of an
assessment tribunal are selected
from a list of medical practi-
tioners (approved by the
Minister) who “have the neces-
sary knowledge of the nature of
disability from which the
appellant or appellants is or are
suffering ” In practice a
panel of medical men is drawn
upon by each chairman so that,
as far as is humanly possible, an
appellant is examined by
physicians and /or surgeons
who have an extraordinary
knowledge of the field of
medicine covered by his
disability.
Thus a man who has a chest
disability might be examined by
a physician who has specialised
in that branch of medicine, as
well as by a surgeon who has
made a specialty of thoracic
surgery; a man with a nervous
disorder might be examined by
two psychiatrists or, in certain
cases, by a psychiatrist and a
neuro-surgeon; an appellant
with, say, sinusitis and defective
hearing would be examined by
E.N.T, men.
It is in the examination of
appellants with a number of
entitlements i.e., disabilities
accepted by the
Commission as due to, arising
out of, or aggravated by war
service—that a difficulty some-
times arises. For the principle
to be carried to its logical con-
clusion would mean that some
appellants would need to be
examined by not two but a
regiment of specialists.
Here commonsense is the
guide. A tribunal will defer a
case sometimes, after hearing the
evidence and examining the
appellant on the basis of those
disabilities the medical members
consider themselves most com-
petent to deal with, and the
appellant will later come up
before the same chairman and a
fresh brace of specialists.
This cautious attitude to
medical matters by the tribunals
is in marked contrast to the
ordinary methods of the
Repatriation Department, by
which a departmental medical
officer may express an opinion
on anything from gunshot
wounds to gynaecology. (Inci-
dentally, although I have con-
sistently used the masculine form
for appellants, it must be remem-
bered that there are ex-service-
women as well as men.)
Although there is nothing in
the Repatriation Act, so far as
I can see,' that forbids
a Repatriation Department
medical officer from being
included in a tribunal, in my
experience a limited one,
admittedly; about a year;
advocates like Dave Berry, of
the Air Force Association, have
been on the job for something
like 25 —the medical members
were outside doctors. Emphasis
seems to be given to the concept
that the tribunal is, in fact, an
independent body. The Act does
not require that a medical
member of a tribunal be an ex-
serviceman, but in fact most of
them are returned soldiers.
What struck me about assess-
ment tribunals was the fascina-
tion the work obviously held for
those engaged in it.
Take the medical members.
The work was not strictly
honorary, for they received a
fee for a half-day sitting. In
this half-day, however, they
would examine a number of
cases, and go into some cases
exhaustively. Cases were not
skimped, and if a case was un-
completed, or unheard, at
knock-off time they didn’t knock
off.
So, not infrequently, when the
clerks and typistes and o.i.c.s of
departments and departmental
medical officers have departed,
and the cleaners are sweeping the
corridors, an assessment tribunal
is still sitting. And, of course,
the blanket-fee medical members
receive is quite inconsistent with
their ordinary professional earn-
ings and cannot be taken into
serious consideration. '
Similarly with the chairmen,
It takes a special type of mind
to be a successful chairman of
an assessment tribunal, and not
necessarily a legal mind. Nor is
it certain that a combination of
legal and military ability would
produce a good chairman. But,
in fact, all the chairmen are legal
men of standing, who could
make a deal more money in
private practice.
The very professional com-
petence of the medical members
sometimes demands special
qualities of tact, incisiveness,
and, especially, character, from
a chairman. Ilie medical world
is a rather insular one, after all.
especially for a man who has
reached the top, and a senior
honorary at a hospital like
Prince Alfred, Sydney or St.
Vincent’s may be pardoned if he
is inclined to wear the habit of
command outside his wards and
private rooms. By temperament
and training he is a specialist,
and his approach to a human
problem may be colored by his
medical bias, to the exclusion of
other factors which require
judicial consideration.
It is easy to see how, on the
one hand, a mediocre chairman,
although conscientious and
possessing good professional
qualifications, could be overawed
by a particular type of medical
man, or, on the other, by a plod-
ding pedantry irritate him
unbearably. The harmonious
workings of the tribunals as I
saw them depended to an extra-
ordinary degree on the person-
alities of the chairmen,
That the four chairmen before
whom I appeared regularly in the
course of my work—Colonel
Clayton Davis, of No. 5
Tribunal, Colonel Vail, of No, 6
Tribunal, Mr. Crofton Stephens,
of No. 2 Tribunal, and Mr,
Nowland, of No. 4 Tribunal (a
fifth chairman, Lieut.-Com-
mander Watson, has been
appointed since my time)—did
possess these necessary and
unusual qualities is an opinion,
I think, worth expressing.
I frequently found it helpful,
in the course of my job, to sketch
for an appellant the nature of
an assessment tribunal, as I have
done here, and also to say some-
thing about the chairman. I
emphasised, to a certain kind of
appellant, the fact that be was
appearing before an independent
tribunal; that the doctors knew
their jobs—it was extraordinary
the relief this simple statement
sometimes brought—and that the
chairmen were men well fitted
by service and professional life
to be shrewd judges of men.
Some of these men had been
so bruised by their disabilities
and by setbacks in civilian life
that they were in a highly
nervous state. But the know-
ledge that they were going to be
heard by men who had, perhaps,
shared their war-time experi-
ences, and that, in any case, they
would receive a fair and patient
hearing, made a considerable
difference.
A man with an amputation,
for instance, relaxed when
informed that Colonel Vail had
lost a leg in an infantry attack
in World War I, and, oddly
enough, a man with a record of
military misdemeanors seemed
to derive comfort from the
knowledge that the same chair-
man had been A.A.G. Army
H.Q. in the early part of World
War 11, and later —besides hold-
ing other jobs of respectable
calibre—had been Colonel Con-
vening Courts-Martial, H.Q.,
N.S.W. L. of C. Area.
But, after all, perhaps that
particular appellant’s reaction
shouldn’t have been so surpris-
ing. A man would probably
argue that someone/accustomed
to poring over the stuff of
courts-martial would not be
unduly impressed by a piece of
rude advice given to a corporal,
back in Palestine, and would be
able to place such items correctly
in perspective—against service in
the field, for instance.
The Repatriation Department,
by the way, carefully preserves
all these records of irregularities
in a soldier’s life. In this, as in
so much of the information
accumulating in Repatriation
files, a good deal depends on the
eye of the reader, a knowledge
of the facts, and the credence to
be placed on the reports of
various persons, doctors,
employers, police, departmental
investfgators—the blokes who
check-up on the morals of war
widows ; or did, until Mrs. Vasey*
complained about it—estranged
wives and the like.
The unfortunate thing about
this accumulation of evidence —
some of it is not evidence, in the
legal sense, but mere hearsay —
by the department is that the
man concerned very often
doesn’t know what is going on.
He might, conceivably, be able
to refute certain statements, and
for every report by someone who
doesn’t like him he could, very
probably, produce a glowing
testimonial. Whether this is
desirable or not is beside the
point. At least w there would be
some parity of "evidence. As it
is, an uncorroborated statement
by an interested party or an
unguarded remark by the man
himself may be used against him
20 years later.
My thumbnail sketches of the
chairmen in the interests of our
clients were, I fear, a bit rough-
and-ready, and I doubt whether
the subjects would have appre-
ciated my efforts. I remember
once saying of Colonel Clayton
Davis, D. 5.0., M.C., casually:
“You know how he got his
D. 5.0., of course? No? Oh, in
August, T8 —29th Battalion. He
was a loot in charge of a com-
pany. He was shot through his
neck. Just sort of shook his
head and went on and took
Vauvillers.”
That varied slightly from the
record in the Official History,
the actual source of my informa-
tion. Clayton Davis was
knocked out by the shot and “on
regaining consciousness took
charge of the right and centre
companies, which had lost all
GLENROY
Long ago when a house was to build they would take a man,
A living man, and bury him under the stones.
I should like to know how they slept in that house, what
dreams
Troubled the dark, what fumbling at their doors
In the slow hours before the light begins.
All yesterday the old house dozed in sun
Or floating shadow as a cloud would pass
Over its dove-grey roof and slender chimneys,
its slope of tawny grass and ragged flowers,
The low stone wall by the tangle of apple-trees,
And out across the rough brown wilderness
To the edge where trees and men stand still and stare —
The sapphire chasm and the peach-gold cliff,
The miracle of the great mountain valley.
And the shade slipped over, as waters fall, and was lost
Till it darkened the wild ridges, blue and far,
And melted in the dim plain of the coast.
And nothing broke the day-long hush but the magpie’s
Full gurgling as they walked the dappled lawn
Still cool with dew at noon, sudden riot of parrots
Streaking in crimson bolts through the towering pine,
The massed dark green, to the fine-etched silver gum.
Beloved walls, root-deep in golden peace
(As house-roots go in this Australian earth
Where solid brick shows like a painted dream
In the pure light, cities and roads no more
Than footprints pressing down the springy grass
And the long tumult of human evil and glory
An echo dying on the warm still air).
The man who built this house buried under its stones
(Knowing he would not go home but by death’s low road)
Country and kin, torn from his heart alive,
The soil once watered by his fathers’ blood,
The child he had been, the passionate young man
Storm-driven out across the world to this place.
And yesterday the name of his house alone,
As a gravestone speaks of the dead, remembered this.
But today, as from a ship that sailed by night,
We looked out in a strange white dawn to find
Our known and colored world gone into mist,
All day the damp mist blowing out of the glens,
The tall pine phantoms darkening as it thinned
And fading,' and in wind and rain a lost
Familiar voice . . . there was another country . , .
Who knows what mountains rise behind the veil?
Our tongues recall old songs, tales heard in childhood
Of the violence and vengeance of mefn, the judgments of
God.
Of the dead returning—ancient griefs that yet
Stain red the snowdrifts of the centuries . . .
Told lightly enough by the fire, but once outside
The bright room, in the passage filled with dusk, alone,
You will see too many doors, and one at the end
You dare not open, lest something coldef than mist
Slip past you into the house. And all the long night
Through our dreaming and waking the restless feet of the
ghost
Will walk, till eastward lifts in crimson and gold
The royal standard of the southern sun,'
And the prince from exile, with sword and burning shield,
Over the sea returning, claims his own.
n.s.w.
NAN McDONALD.


w.
mrm
GRAND CHAMPION
jpQC PAVILION | m
l/Lo'
sSpm' W.
sMI
C2D
V*
U -c
I<S
Jtr '
S 3
H
gr.
C 7
r
<p
■■' %
<b
v_
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB. 12a 18 '
their officers ” and took
Vauvillers.
Still, 1 liked that bit about
“shaking his head” and used it
again. If inaccurate, it was, I
thought, a fair summary of the
man. My client thought so, too.
During the hearing of his case,
whenever Clayton Davis, from
his place at the head of the table,
turned his head sharply from
left to right to address a ques-
tion to one or the other of the
doctors on either side of the
table my client looked at him
thoughtfully.
That appellant was a man
with a splendid war record, and
now his disabilities, the years
and a constitution undermined
by long and severe service in the
field had caught up with him
cruelly. In his mind was the
painful contradiction between
his decorations for bravery and
his present state of health, which
made him start at shadows. He
was unable to appreciate the
chain of causation between the
two, and because of his high per-
sonal standards, he was harder
on himself than another would
be. Nor did he find it easy to
speak of these things, because he
was not an educated man. My
sketch of the chairman, crude
though it was, had some value.
He felt he was among friends.
His case is typical of many
who appear before the assess-
ment tribunals, and of others,
less fortunate, who never appear
before a tribunal because they
know little about them. Such
cases as these are, in part, my
justification for writing this
article.
An assessment tribunal has
power to summon witnesses, to
take evidence on oath and to
require the production of docu-
ments, backed by the customary
penalties. Some of these powers,
however, are used lightly, prob-
ably because the policy of the
tribunals is to create an infor-
mal atmosphere, in which an
appellant or his witnesses will
not be overawed.
In practice, an assessment
tribunal, though not bound to
do so, usually hears a witness for
the appellant. The few cases I
know where a tribunal has not
done so have been when the
evidence of witnesses was un-
necessary ; for instance, when
the tribunal was already satis-
fied, on the medical evidence,
that a man was totally and per-
manently incapacitated. The
decision of an assessment tri-
bunal is binding on both the
Repatriation Commission and
the appellant for certain stated
periods.
The chairmen of these tri-
bunals travel from State to State
—each chairman, usually, sit-
ting for a period in Western Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, Victoria,
Queensland, N.S.W. and South
Australia in his normal tour of
duty. I can speak only of my
experience in Sydney, where two
chairmen heard cases all day,
five days a week.
The mechanism of appeal,
briefly, is this: An ex-service-
man’s pension is reduced, usually
after an examination by a Re-
patriation medical officer. He
then has a right of appeal to an
assessment tribunal. Or an ex-
serviceman has had a disability
accepted, by the Repatriation
Commission or by an entitle-
ment tribunal. At some later
date he is informed that the
Repatriation Commission has
accepted the condition, and
either assesses his disability at
such and such a rate, or con-
siders that there is a negligible
degree of incapacity which does
not warrant the grant of a war
pension. In either case the man
has a right of appeal to an assess-
ment tribunal.
Again, a man on no pension,
or with a pension, may consider
he is under-assessed and make
application to the department
He will then be called up for
examination by a Repatriation
M 0., who, after examination,
will submit his recommendations
to higher authority. If the com-
mission or a board—who in prac-
tice rely a good deal on their own
M.O. s report—decide that an
increase is not justified, they will
inform the ex-serviceman of
their decision, and he then has
a right of appeal to an assess-
ment tribunal.
In all cases this right of appeal
is limited to a certain period
after notification of the depart-
ment’s decision.
There are other, rarer, cases
which the assessment tribunals
decide on appeal, such as
whether a certain restricted
category of ex-servicemen is
permanently unemployable, and
therefore entitled to a service
pension—as distinct from war
pension. The service pension is
commonly known among the
“Try a very open stance , sir.”
recipients as “Billy Hughes’s
burnt-out-Diggers’ pension.”
Other instances could be
whether a man who has served
in a theatre of war is suffering
from pulmonary tuberculosis;
and whether a man, already con-
sidered totally and permanently
incapacitated because of war ser-
vice, requires such constant
attention that the grant of an
attendant’s allowance is justified.
It must not be supposed that
this attendant’s allowance in any
way covers the cost of a per-
manent attendant, any more
than a 100 per cent, pension, for
instance, has any relation to
ordinary wages. It is a little
extra added to the T. & P.I. rate,
usually awarded to the wife, who,
in most cases, has the actual
task. In my experience, for an
attendant’s allowance to be
granted a very grave state of
dependence had to be estab-
lished. It was not sufficient, for
instance, for a man to be incap-
able of walking down the street
by himself, or to be in danger of
injuring himself (say, by falling)
if left in the house alone.
Provision is made under the
Act for an appellant to be repre-
sented “at his own expense” at
either an assessment or an
entitlement tribunal by a “person
other than a qualified legal prac-
titioner.” There have been pri-
vate advocates in the past, some
of whom made big money, but
in practice the “expense” is
nominal, an appellant, if he so
desires, being represented by an
advocate from one of the various
organisations.
The R.S.L., the Air Force
Association and Legacy have
regular advocates appearing, and
none of these associations
charges for the advocate’s ser-
vices. Nor does the Legal Ser-
vice Bureau, a Government de-
partment. There is considerable
liaison between ex-servicemen’s
organisations and also between
ex-servicemen’s organisations
and the Legal Service Bureau in
these matters, the -Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, for
instance, handing on a member
to the Legal Service Bureau and
itself collecting evidence.
The Repatriation Department,
however, persists with a silly
habit of informing appellants
that they can, “if they so desire,”
be represented by a Repat.
officer. The department has no
real facilities for this form of
representation, and consequently
many a man arrives on the day
of the hearing confident that he
will be so represented only to
find that no one knows anything
about it. A clerk, hastily taking
over the job, can usually do no
more than introduce the man to
the tribunal. Important evid-
ence, such as the opinion of the
appellant’s own physician, which
the tribunal would consider care-
fully, is often unavailable be-
cause the man has not consulted
the appropriate agencies.
The reasons for the anachron-
ism mentioned probably lie deep
in the obscure background of
inter-departmental jealousies.
An assessment tribunal, al-
though it has wide powers, is
also confined in certain directions
under the Act. The most import-
ant restriction, and the one many
appellants find most difficult to
understand, is that it has no
authority, to consider any dis-
ability not already accepted.
A man with a major disability
(such as a severe cardiac condi-
tion) which has been rejected by
the commission, and a minor
disability (such as gunshot-
wound in the chest) accepted by
the commission, frequently finds
it difficult to understand why his
disabilities cannot be lumped to-
gether, the more so as there is
respectable medical evidence to
back the opinion that the second
can provoke the first. But the
authority of the tribunal in such
cases is strictly defined.
In closely-related conditions,
the one accepted by the commis-
sion, the other rejected, it is often
extremely difficult, especially for
a layman, to disentangle symp-
toms.
Carelessness in the wording of
an entitlement by the commis-
sion can also lead to some ridicu-
lous situations. For instance, a
man’s entitlement may read
“healed duodenal ulcer,” but the
appellant, in fact, may have an
active duodenal ulcer. Yet in
such a case the tribunal can only
make an assessment on the basis
of the actual entitlement.
A man’s purpose in appearing
before an assessment tribunal is
not always the simple one of
obtaining a rise in pension,
although the mechanism of
appeal is based on that assump-
tion. Often he craves an
authoritative medical opinion on
whether he can work or not, and
some fine old fellows have gone
away happy as Larry after learn-
ing that they can hang on to their
light jobs for a while if they take
things easy.
The wording of entitlements
by the commission is a tricky
business, and can sometimes be
harmful. One man received a
severe shock on being informed
that he had an “Inadequate and
psychopathic personality”—and
who wouldn’t? In such a case,
I imagine, the medical members
of an assessment tribunal would
include in their report a recom-
mendation that the commission
choose some more tactful and
scientifically acceptable diag-
nosis, particularly as the man’s
troubles, in part, could be traced
to the receipt of that unpleasant
piece of information.
A fairly high percentage of
appeals to the assessment tri-
bunals have been allowed, which
indicates that in a great number
of cases the Repatriation De-
partment, right along the chain
of command, has been wrong. I
have at hand a report of the
commission for the year 1950-51,
which gives the following
figures:—
„ 1914 War
Cases heard .. .. ~ 1,119
Cases allowed .. .. .. ’739
Cases disallowed .. . * 330
Cases reduced .. .. ’ Nd
„ 1939 War
Cases heard .. .. .. 3,979
Cases allowed- .. .. .. 2^996
Cases disallowed .. .. ’97s
Cases reduced .. ~ .. 5
An obvious reason for the
number of appeals allowed is
the difference in skill and know-
ledge between the ordinary de-
partmental medical officer who
makes the original assessment
and the medical men sitting on
the tribunals. This is no reflec-
tion on the Repat. doctors, who,
after all, can’t be expected to
know everything. Another factor
is that the average Repat. doctor
simply hasn’t the time to go into
each case as thoroughly as the
tribunals do.
A curious belief persists
among Repatriation doctors that
they are obliged to make a
purely medical assessment of the
degree of incapacity. This is not
the case. The many factors
taken into consideration by an
assessment tribunal, such as the
effect of a man’s incapacity on
his earning ability, on sporting
activities, study, social and
family interests—in fact, the
total impact on his ordinary life
—should also be considered by
the Repatriation Department at
all levels. If this policy were ad-
hered to there would be no
necessity for a great number of
appeals.
My own feeling is that, with
one exception, the only, improve-
ments that can be suggested in
the functions of the present
assessment tribunals are minor,
administrative ones, which no
doubt will evolve in the normal
manner. The suggestion I would
make is that chairmen should be
appointed, in the manner of
judges, for life.
I am quite sure that all the
present chairmen of the assess-
ment tribunals exercise complete
independence, bounded by the
law, in their decisions. But it
has always seemed to me that
this independence is more de-
pendent on their own character
and the personality of a Minister
than guaranteed by the Act as it
now stands. They are appointed
for a definite period, and,
although they are eligible for
reappointment, there is nothing
to prevent a Minister from
quietly dropping them.
A Minister may remove a
chairman of either an entitle-
ment or an assessment tribunal,
and if both Houses present an
address to the Governor-General
praying that he be restored, he
is restored. In other words, a
Minister can remove a chair-
man. The classic case is the re-
moval of entitlement tribunal
chairman O’Sullivan—now a
District Court Judge—by Re-
patriation Minister Barnard.


SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
76Ibs.
.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
The man who was
paid $1,000,000 a
year!
Famous American Walter P.
Chrysler started out in life as
a machinist’s apprentice. Al-
ready a millionaire at 45, he
was hired by Willys-Overland
at a million dollars a year. He
left Willys to found his own
Chrysler Corporation and later,
in 1929, built the 7.7-story
Chrysler Building.
April Reader’s Digest’s 15-
pag© book condensation of
Chrysler’s “Life of an Ameri-
can Workman” has the fascina-
tion of every true story about
the boy who reached the top
by his own efforts.
Thirty-two stimulating ar-
ticles in April Reader’s Digest
on sale now one shilling
and sixpence at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Camping-mate wanted by male
traveller for Murray Valley tour,
comfortable sedan, share driving from
Sydney.—s 473.
To buy set of six colored Bulletin
postcards, “Australian Types” by
Norman Lindsay, published about
1908 or 1909.—5474.
To get in touch with the following
members of the 41st Battery, 4th
Division, First A.1.F., who witnessed
an accident to Albert Stanford of
that unit in France in 1918: Sgt.
Domber, Charles Cox, Bede Lock,
Frank Waterman, Pat Hough and
Tim Hogan.—s47s.
Information Sought
Did the Norman Conquest (1066)
give England permanent unity for the
first time? What unity existed pre-
viously ?
Permanent unity, yes. During the
so-called Dark Ages England was
divided into seven main kingdoms,
the heptarchy (Wessex, Sussex, Kent,
Essex, Northumbria, Mercia, East
Anglia). In 829 the West Saxon
(Wessex) king Egbert (802-39), by
conquest and otherwise, had been
accepted as overlord by all the other
English kingdoms, and is regarded as
the first king of England. (“Eng-
land,” of course, does not include
Scotland and Wales.) Five years after
Egbert’s death, however, the unity be
achieved had been lost, a Danish
conquest of Northumbria, Mercia and
East Anglia having torn those parts
away from Wessex’s rule. Alfred the
Great (king of Wessex, 871-901), who
fought the Danes practically through-
out his rule, never achieved English
unity. In 1016 Canute the Dane
became sole ruler of the country, but
on his death in 1035 the Crown was
divided between his two sons. Both
lived only a few years, and were
succeeded by Edward the Confessor
(1042-66), who, ostensibly king of all
England, was in fact dominated by
his earls, of whom three (Leofric,
Godwin and Siward), holding respec-
tively the earldoms of West Mercia,
Wessex and Northumbria, reigned in
their domains like petty sovereigns
and had more power than their
master. William the Conqueror ended
this system whereby great earls rukd
as independent princelings, and by his
powerful rule welded the whole
country into a unity which endured.
* * * *
(1) A has a number of young
heifers in his paddock that he doesn’t
want mated. B owns a bull in the
adjoining paddock. Is B liable for
trespass of his animal if the bull
breaks through and serves the heifers ?
(2) Would A be entitled to castrate
the trespassing bull ? (3) If cattle are
unbranded, and stray away, can they
be legally recovered if found on
another property?
(1) The owner of domesticated
animals (and a bull is one) is bound
to keep them upon his land under
control, and is liable, if they escape
and commit a trespass, for such
damage as it is ordinarily in their
nature to commit. In your case, if
the serving of the heifers amounts to
damage (and from what you say it
appears to do so), B would be liable
for the trespass of the bull. (2) A is
not in any circumstances entitled to
castrate B’s bull, and if he does so
will be liable to B in damages. (3)
Unbranded cattle which stray away
can be legally recovered by the true
owner if found on another property
unless the owner of the latter has
impounded them for causing damage
to his property on the occasion of
the actual trespass during which the
damage arose. In such a case the
owner of the property is entitled to
retain the cattle until his claim for
compensation for the damage is satis-
fied by the owner of the cattle.
* * * *
(1) After publishing short stories
in Australia, and signing away Aus-
tralasian copyright, have I a right to
submit the same story to an overseas
magazine, even though this magazine
is circulated on a small scale in Aus-
tralia? (2) If a. story is accepted
overseas, does that mean that the
world copyright has been sold and
the story is not publishable in Aus-
tralia? (3) Is New Zealand covered
by Australasian copyright or can
stories already published in Australia
be resubmitted there without infring-
ing the copyright law?
(1) You are entitled to submit to
an overseas magazine a story written
by you whose Australasian copyright
you have signed away, but you should
point out to the magazine that the
Australasian rights to the story have
already been sold by you and that
you are submitting the story to them
on condition that they do not infringe
the rights of the publishers who
bought the Australasian rights. (2)
It depends in each case upon what
you sell. You are entitled to sell the
world copyright if you wish or you
may restrict it to a sale of the copy-
right in a particular country; you
may sell all publishing rights or only
the magazine publishing rights. In
submitting your manuscript to a pub-
lisher you should stipulate just what
publication rights you are offering.
(3) If you sell the Australasian rights,
that includes the right to publish any-
where in Australasia, which, in
ordinary language, includes New
Zealand. If you have sold only Aus-
tralian rights you may submit to New
Zealand publishers, but you should
make it clear just what you are
offering them.
Brief Answers
H.F.J.: Write B. D. Cormack,
business manager, Woollahra Play-
house, 8 Drumalbyn-road, Bellevue
Hill (N.5.W.).... P.F.: Binnowee
means “green place”; Burrendah,
“place of the swan”; Giargul,
“waterfall”; lllawong, “view of the
water”; Kunyal, “leaves of tree”;
Muronga, “a bullroarer”; Pillapai,
“valley or hollow”; and Wirrinda,
“honeysuckle”... .R.G.N.: Building
in Cob, Pise and Stabilised Earth by
Clough Williams-Ellis and John and
Elizabeth Easterwick-Field, published
by Country Life, London M.E.F.:
J. A. R. McKellar was an Australian
poet who died in 1932 at the age of
27. Twenty-six, his first volume of
poems, was published shortly before
his death. Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, brought out his Collected
Poems, containing 66 pieces, in 1947.
J.O’R.: The State Education
Departments are now responsible for
migrant education in each State.
Suggest that you write to the Director-
General of Education, Department of
Public Instruction, Box 1438 T,
G.P.0., Brisbane J.D.: See article
“The Breaker” by F. M. Cutlack
printed in “The Red Page” of The
Bulletin for March 12, 1947
G.W.C.: (1) The genus Gerbera is
named after Gerber, the German
naturalist who discovered it. (2) The
hard “g” (in pronouncing it) is
strictly correct, but has been dis-
placed by popular use of the soft
“g.” (3) Impossible to say when it
was. introduced here. For many years
it has been listed as a perennial in
catalogues J.D.: The Rig-Veda is
a collection of ancient Hindu hymns;
it is the oldest and most important
of the Vedas (Hindu sacred books).
C.M.: (1) Article was written
and published without benefit of the
funds of the organisation concerned.
(2) Possibly you are basing your
adverse judgment on the Socialist-
planned and -run peanut-growing and
pig-raising fiascos. We are satisfied
this scheme is different altogether,
and certain of success W.T.:
According to the Pacific Islands Year
Book, 1950, the discovery of gold
was reported in 1930 in Bougainville,
at Kompuma Creek, near Kupei
village, at a height of about 3500 ft.
above sea-level. Various investigations
were made in 1933-38, but no really
payable gold was found.. . .K.D.;
Homes in the Sun by Walter Bunning,
published by Nesbit, Sydney, 1945;
price 12s. 6d L.E.: Palmite-rush,
or palmeit, is an evergreen perennial
plant, native of South Africa, with
broad, linear leaves which are deeply
channelled and finely serrated and
small greenish-golden flowers. The
leaves are used in thatching, and the
fibre in the leaf-sheaths is some-
times employed in brush-making
V.S.: Robert D. Fitz Gerald won the
1952 Grace Leven prize for poetry
with his long historical poem Between
Two Tides... .W.W.J.: “Dawn” is a
monthly magazine published by the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s Dept, for
the aboriginal people of New South
Wales. It is obtainable from the
Government Printej, Sydney P.S.:
King George VI died on February 6,
1952... .F.G.8.: Wines of France by
Alexis Lichjne, published by Cassell,
London D.H.C.P.: Write Com-
monwealth Experimental Building
Station, Chatswood (N.S.W.), for a
copy of Earth Wall Construction
by G. F. Middleton (price Is.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.W.: Mr. Stacey hadn’t even the
appearance of a winner P.K.F.:
You tried hard, but it didn’t come off.
W.B.; “Across the Silent Room”
goes back across the Victorian border.
J.K.: It was carried out in the
undertow V.A.F.: It is a brave
scribe who submits a contribution
with another paper’s rejection-slip
attached to the covering-letter
S.S.: We were never in doubt as to
the fate of “A Man With Two
Minds”... .K.K.McN.: Afraid that
it is not to be M.E.P.: We will
try to heed the warning K.McA.:
Bluey couldn’t pull a trick
G.T.D.; It only made a small noise.
... .8.P.C.: Cut them down to para-
graphs K.R.R.: An old idea
lamely told P.P.R.: It will not
chill the spines of any of our readers.
Bellerive: Roll on:
Wreck op the Coastal Steamer
Alert, Victoria, December 28,
1893.
As the steamer Alert
Cleared forth on her way,
A thick fog did spread
O’er the wide ruffled bay.
The fog did deepen,
Which alarmed the crew.
Grim danger on their
Course would ensue.
Against all efforts to
Save her from doom.
Fierce frothy breakers
Swept thro the gloom.
Midst a harrowing scene
on the flooded deck
Ever reeled the Alert,
A swift total wreck.
Only one of the
Fated crew did survive:
He was found on
Sorrento bead! alive.
Robert Pointing was the
Name of the castaway.
Pound on the beach
At break of day
After care and attention
He did sadly explain
The fate of he’s comrades
On the weltering main.
In long years after
When past he’s prime
He died in England,
He’s dear native clime.
... .F. 8.5.: There’s a story there
somewhere, but it didn’t come to light.
F.H.F.: We decided to leave that
rabbit in its burrow... .N.K.: You
had a bosker plot, but you made
nothing of it... .A.S.H.: Sending
Scotty back to his home-town
E.L.H.S.: “Yellow Eyes” did not
mesmerise anybody at 252 George-
street W.G.W.: We guessed the
end, except that we thought that the
painting would be a Rembrandt, not
a Landseer.',. .M.F.: Tucked away
somewhere there is the germ of a
story there; put it away and come
at it later... .G.K.: Whatever were
their relative positions in the story,
both brothers ended up in the basket.
... .L.S.: Couldn’t reach the central
idea for the clutter of family history,
M.C.: Give us something that is
Australian E. 8.8.: “Standard” is
below standard... .C.C.: Sydney
trams are funnier than that
C. : Too slight... .T.S.G.: If we
get many more stories like that we
will be muttering “Vengeance Is
Mine” G.A.: About 997 times
every year we hurl through the
window stories with a similar den-
tist’s-chair ending S.P.: You beat
about the bush too much D.W.:
The answer to that question is no.
. ...G.M.: Too frail a thing
S.D.S.: It would take a Gloria
Rawlinson to handle a theme like
that D.R.: You don’t make that
chance meeting very convincing
D. “The Button” is only worth a
paragraph; the other needs building
up N. 0.: “Stone the Crows”
misses, but not by a wide margin.
.... J.A.C.: Not keen on the peeping
Toms R.W.: We have a feeling
that you can do much better than
that if you try V.W.S.: It only
goes to show what a couple of gins
will do to a good girl’s resolutions.
A.R.R.: Not enough to distin-
guish it from all the other sunrises.
J.K.: Dialogue sounds more
cockney than Australian J.C.: It
bounces along with some Hopkins-
like energy, but do you, seriously
insist on that phrase “the hurt howl
of a dying dove”?... .S.C.R.: At any
rate that must be the first poem in
history to have bofne the footnote:
“Kingaroy, centre of a rich dairying
and agricultural area—the South
Burnett-4s famed Australia-wide for
its peanuts.”
BLAIR ATHOL
By Senator W.H. SPOONER
Minister for National Development
ANYONE with a knowledge
of Blair Athol, in Queens-
land (B. 4 and 11/2/’53),
will admit its great
potentialities for development.
So far, though, no one has
found a commercially payable
way to exploit, on a large scale,
this 200-million-ton deposit.
The whole key to Blair Athol
is that any large increase in out-
put would require millions spent
on improving the existing 307
miles of single-track 3ft. 6in.-
gauge line between the field and
the port of Gladstone, or a new
railway to some other port on
the coast. To justify the new
railway, Blair Athol would need
to produce about two million
tons a year, but so far no market
has been found for anything like
this quantity.
During the coal famine of the
last few .years Blair Athol was
thought of as a source of supply
to southern States. Cost-
estimates were that by spending
£31.2 million on mining, town-
ship, railway and port facilities
to produce and handle 2.3
million tons a year, the coal
could have been landed in Mel-
bourne or Adelaide at ss. a ton
less than Newcastle coal, and
595. a ton less than the opencut
coal then available from the New
South Wales western district.
But this only allowed 3i p.c.
interest on capital and no pro-
vision for taxation, so was not
on a commercial basis. Now,
of course, with a surplus of New
South Wales coal, there is no
inter-State market for Blair
Athol coal, and Queensland is
using as much from this field as
she needs.
Why not use Blair Athol as
the centre of an extensive
electric-power scheme? This is
a favorite suggestion, and would
be a good idea except for the
fact that water for a power-
station would have to be piped
60 miles. At present Queensland
can generate its growing power
needs more cheaply elsewhere.
When it pays to generate power
at Blair Athol, no doubt the pipe-
line will be built.
Facts suggest, therefore, that
if a market is to be found it
must be sought overseas, and this
is being done.
A good deal has also been
done to explore the possibilities
of obtaining from abroad the
necessary investment capital.
Mr. S. F. Utz, who is experi-
enced in arranging investment
finance, went to the United
States of America last year at
his own expense and did valuable
spadework. Then his represen-
tations were supplemented by
Mr. lan Potter, of Melbourne,
who has had similar experience.
Later in the year Mr, R. G.
Casey took up the task whilst he
was in the U.S.A. Subsequently
I then met those interested on
my way home through the
U.S.A. from the Economic
Conference.
There is a group in U.S.A.,
well experienced in coalmining,
which believes that the Aus-
tralian cost estimates are far too
high and that coal can be won
at Blair Athol, transported to 1
the coast and sold at a price
very much below that which we
have estimated in Australia.
Subject to further investigation,
it is prepared to back its opinion
by putting up the capital required
to develop the coalfield proper.
It is not prepared to find the
capital to build the railway.
I attended a conference
arranged by Sir Percy Spender
at which I met representatives
from the United States Depart-
ment of State, Mutual Security
and Defence Materials Produc-
tion. All departments are keen
to see Blair Athol developed
because their view is that if coal
can be produced at the low cost
envisaged in America, then the
coalfield will add materially to
the strategic strength of the free
world and go into markets now
being catered for by Communist
countries. The departments are
accordingly using their influence
to induce private investors to
increase the capital available to
the syndicate already interested.
Two factors are yet to be
determined. The first and more
important is whether investiga-
tion by the American group
supports their view that Aus-
tralian estimates of capital
expenditure and working costs
are substantially overestimated.
If the Americans are correct in
their estimates then the coal pro-
duced might well, on a competi-
tive basis, undersell coal already
on the market in Australia.
The second consideration is
the extent of the export market.
This turns on the price at which
it can be sold. Pakistan is look-
ing for coal-supplies and sent to
mission out here to investigate.
Inquiries are also being received
from Japan for large-scale
supplies of coking coal. Blair
Athol does not provide coking
coal, but there is about 24
million tons of coking coal at
Nebo, which would be close to
the route of a new railway from
Blair Athol to Mackay. In the
meantime, some 60,000 tons of
New South Wales and Queens-
land coal have been sold to
Pakistan and Japan, and it is
suggested, but not yet proven,
that there is a large market in
Japan for Blair Athol type coal
in addition to the market for
coking coal.
This is where the matter now
stands. My view is that the
prospects of developing the field
turn entirely upon interesting
overseas capital in the proposi-
tion. Australian Governments
have not at present the financial
resources to build the railway.
The World Bank, if it were
interested, would normally only
lend that portion of the money
required which would be spent
outside of Australia, and which
would leave a substantial amount
more to be found. And even
f if the World Bank or the
Import-Export Bank had money
to lend, the attitude of Australian
Governments probably would be
to utilise it in completion of
existing unfinished works instead
of commencing a new proposi-
tion.
I hold it preferable for a big
developmental project such as
this to be financed and operated
commercially, taking its own
risk on profit or loss. It would
have a better prospect of success
and a much better chance of
attracting to the area those other
industries which could follow
the opening of a new coalfield
of this size. It would be a new
era in Australia, which is drifting
to a situation in which the tax-
payer is expected to find money
for every developmental project,
whereas in other countries
progress is assisted by attracting
investment moneys.
It may be difficult to persuade
the American group to investi-
gate their estimates of capital
expenditure and operating costs
before they know whether they
can raise the capital required or
whether export trade is avail-
able. But these difficulties may
be overcome, especially in view
of the desire of the American
Government departments to see
the coalfield developed. Indeed,
it may become a proposition
interesting to the new Develop-
ment Corporation in Great
Britain particularly, as it would
involve the purchase of a sub-
stantial amount of mining and
railway capital equipment, for
which Great Britain wants to
find markets.
When evolved,, any proposal
for the full-scale development of
Blair Athol would necessarily
have to be approved by the
Queensland Government. The
way in which such development
might change the character of
Central Queensland and
strengthen strategic resources in
the Pacific offers such a fascinat-
ing prospect as to justify the
work done upon it.


Australian Historical Sketches
Carbines
of Yesteryear
By M.H. ELLIS
HORSES were among the
first immigrants to Aus-
tralia. They came from
the Cape of Good Hope
among the 500 animals and birds
of various kinds which made the
First Fleet look like a Noah’s
Ark after it weighed anchor in
convoy at that /station on
November 13, 1787 t;
There were a stallion, three
mares and three colts. But they
were little regarded or made use
of, except perhaps to pull a cart
when it was necessary to whip a
lady at its tail. In November,
1791, there were one aged and
two young stallions, one mare
and two colts in the colony.
Even when ploughs came in
on very rare farms in the late
1790’s they were pulled by oxen,
or sometimes in Balkan fashion
partly by human labor. Wagons
were hauled by oxen.
During Phillip’s regime in the
very early days the few animals
that survived waxed fat with
little work. Most Marines and
naval men would have as soon
ridden a goanna as a horse.
Thus all the expeditions which
quartered through what was soon
called the County of Cumber-
land, during the first few years
of Australian history, did the job
on their feet.
Nobody seems to have had the
slightest thought of taking a
packhorse when 401 b. could be
put on the shoulders of a hefty
Marine or convict.. The first
expedition to use pack-animals
was that across the Blue
Mountains in 1813. In the very
early expeditions, in any case,
officers out exploring preferred
to walk because of their
methods. They proceeded in
precise naval fashion by
compass, counting their paces at
2000 to the mile, a plan which
could not be carried out on
horseback.
However, with the arrival of
the members of the N.S. Wales
Corps and men like John
Macarthur, who had come from
the wide, open spaces of Devon,
there was some change. Various
importations of horses were
made in the 1790’5, but the losses
at sea were even heavier than
the arrivals. The first organised
private attempt to secure horses
was made when the officers of
the Corps and some others, under
the business management of
Macarthur, sent the Britannia
(Captain Raven) abroad in 1792,
and she brought back, the follow-
ing year, three or four bruised
neddies which had survived the
battering of the voyage from
Africa.
It was not till Governor King’s
day that Government House
boasted a carriage and a dragoon
escort.
By 1799 there were a number
of prads in use. One or two
officers had hacks and even
vehicles of some sort. But a
good horse was still worth £l4O
to £l5O, though this was purely
a token value, there being no
market. John Macarthur, the
largest private farmer in the
country, owned a dozen head.
Governor King sumraed-up
the qualify of horses in general
in a dispatch dated September
28, 1800, as being “only of the
Cape or India breed . . . very
miserable.” He suggested the
sending-out from England of
“four strong bony mares of the
Clydesdale breed and two
stallions.” The Government’s
30-head, for all their poorness
of quality, were then valued at
£5O each average.
On March 7, 1801, the Gov-
ernment stock was analysed as
made up of one stallion, 23
mares, one filly and three colts.
On June 30 the same year the
animal census gave 241 horses
in the colony, of which 211 were
privately owned —there were a
couple on Norfolk Island a little
later in the year. It was
recorded;
The horses being mostly of the
Cape breed are far from being as
useful as the English breed would
be; they are generally appropriated
to labor.
At the same time the breed
was obviously improving. When
John Macarthur contemplated
returning to England in 1800 he
proposed that the Government
should buy his farms and stock
and enumerated his horses as
Ten horses at £65 per head, 5 of
which are mares of the India breed,
and one remarkable fine stallion
from America —£650.
The stallion is the first Aus-
tralian horse mentioned which
was not of Oriental or African
origin.
At the muster at the end of
1801 the Commissary, John
was noted as the largest
private horse-owner in the
country (35-head); D’Arcy
Wentworth (Homebush), a
real pioneer of organised racing
in the continent, owned four;
the chaplain, Samuel Marsden,
five ; the Governor, three.
Most civil officers possessed a
nag or two for their own private
use. Among the military officers,
however, there were three or
four owners in a larger way—
William Cox, of Brush Farm,
25; • Thomas Laycock, the
quartermaster, 17; John Mac-
arthur, 16; Captain Thomas
Rowley, eight.
By the end of 1802 the Gov-
ernment owned a couple of
stallions, 21 mares, seven fillies,
seven colts and a couple of
geldings. Private citizens and
military officers were credited
with owning 109 males and 147
females.
+ 4-
The Buffalo, in 1802, brought
two English horses. One was a
stallion from the Duke of
Northumberland, a gift to his
old friend Captain George
Johnston, and seems to have been
named Northumberland, since
seven years later young Edward
Macarthur, visiting the Duke,
was able to report to his father
that “His Grace was very greatly
pleased with the accounts I gave
him of the noble race of horses
by Northumberland.” The
second importation in the
Buffalo was a mare owned by
Captain Kent, R.N., captain of
the ship.
Captain King, R.N., men-
tioned that “In 1802 a very
strong boney stallion was
brought from India by an
officer, which with some half-
bred mares have greatly
improved the original breed.”
But there seems to be no other
record of this animal.
The end of the year 1802 may
be set as the end also of the first
stage of horse development in
Australia. The next stage opened
with the arrival of a shipment
brought from Calcutta by Robert
Campbell (who had come to
Sydney to establish a shipping
business), in the Castle of Good
Hope, the largest vessel till
then to anchor in Port Jack-
son. She carried four Indian
mares and two horses. This im-
portation marks the introduction
of the Arab or Persian blood
into the Australian Antipodes.
The shipment was delivered at
the beginning of March, 1803.
One of the horses, indeed,
appears to have been the first to
leave a permanent mark in the
Australian stud-books, though
this is not conclusively proved.
His coming caused some
excitement, for he seemed to be
not only a good sire but a gift
in price, and a number of
people, including the Govern-
ment, hastened to try to get in
on a good thing, but without
success. We find Captain Kent,
of H.M.S. Buffalo, writing sadly
to the Governor from India on
Christmas Day, 1803:
I am sorry to find It will be
impossible to get anything like a
good stallion of the Arabian breed
for under £2OO. The one brought
down in the Castle of Good Hope
for 500 rupees I am told would have
cost that sum at least had he not
been completely foundered.
Many years later Mr. Camp-
bell referred to the fact that he
had imported good blood horses
from India before 1810. There
is no doubt that he owned this
Arab or Persian horse and stood
it at stud at his Bligh-street yard
for some years. In 1812 there is
a record of the sale of “the
Arab or Persian horse Hector”
to D’Arcy Wentworth, of Home-
bush, and the number of Hectors
which began to appear in a few
years in the possession of various
racing owners Badgery’s
Hector and others —make it
clear that he was an animal as
famous as the great bull, Comet.
Everybody rushed to be identi-
fied with him; and his stud
progeny, which were numerous,
were always apparently given
his name, with that of the owner
prefixed, if they were worth a
saddlecloth, until Jockey Club
organisation began to regulate
these matters more closely.
The original Hector was
famous not only as the sire of
racehorses, but for producing a
famous class of roadster. His
offspring through a mare called
Betty (whose pedigree must be
wrongly dated if she was by
him) is supposed to persist till
the present day (she was born
in 1827 by the book, and he died
years earlier).
All the authorities who have
written on early Australian rac-
ing—Dr. Lang and the rest —are
wrong about the stage of the
stallion’s departure from earthly
pastures and obviously ignorant
of his history, though why this
should be I do not know, since
he was the first Australian equine
idol to be treated to an obituary
notice by the contemporary
Press. The “Sydney Gazette,”
January 1, 1824, records his de-
cease, “worn out by debility and
age,” on December 27, 1823:
This noble animal was once the
property of Colonel Wellesley (now
the Duke of Wellington). By the
then Colonel Hector was taken
from India to Europe and from
thence returned to India in the Stud
of Marquis Wellesley, brother to his
Grace the Duke of Wellington.
After this visit to Europe, it be-
came the lot of the deceased to be
thought worthy of the honor of a
trip to N. S. Wales, so that his
name might be handed down as
having improved the then extremely
poor equestrian race. Mr. Merchant
Campbell of George Street brought
him to this colony many years
since. It is well known that Hec-
tor is the progenitor of many
horses now amongst us; and that
his breed is of the most serviceable
kind.
It was recorded that his age at
the time of his death was 31-2, so
it would seem that, if he was the
Arab that Campbell brought in
1803, he must have been about
eight years old when imported.
There is obviously some
muddle about his history. The
probability seems to be that he
went from India to the stud of
the owner of the famous
Wellesley Arabian and was then
brought back, became foundered
and was sold when Wellesley
was clearing-up his assets in
India in 1802 at a period when
he was asking to be recalled. He
might have been a chestnut
foaled in 1790, which Baroness
Wentworth mentions and which
was imported to England by
Wellesley.
At any rate there seems to be
no doubt that John Macarthur
had the first good stallion
in the country, George Johnston
the first English horse of note,
Northumberland, and Campbell
brought in the first Arab in
Hector.
Following the arrival of these,
progress was rapid as settlement
extended and wealth increased.
In 1806 the horse population had
grown to 552, of which 305 were
fegiales—it had doubled in three
years.
It was then written (the paper
is among the Alnwick Castle
Papers owned by the Duke of
Northumberland) that “the
horses bred in the settlement had
been found far superior to the
original stock both in strength
and beauty.” The Cape breed
were “better adapted to the
services of the colony than the
Indian horses, as they were
capable of undergoing greate.
labor and were not so delicate
and tender.” The Indian horses
“needed good feed and consider-
able care to keep them in condi-
tion,” but at the same time they
were “more lofty and majestic
than the Cape breed as well as
more spirited.” Cape mares and
Indian sires, however, produced
some very serviceable stock, both
for the saddle and for harness
and were found to be hardy.
+ 4-
It was added that since the
importation of the English horse
(Northumberland), “a fine noble
animal nearly 17 hands high,”
the breed reared from him was
much larger than that in the
colony previously. His size
might suggest a draught-horse ;
but it was an age of large,
sturdy cavalry chargers. Blood
ran to size. The N.S.W- Mounted
Police at first regarded a 17-hand
trooper as ideal.
Prices still remained high—
£loo to £l5O sterling for a
common mare 13 j to 15 hands
tall. It was surmised that since
they could be “bred in the forest
like horned cattle with little care
or expense,” prices would fall,
but if values could be kept up
they would induce owners of
stock to breed quality.
By the end of 1808 there were
1000 horses in New South Wales.
Carriages were a normal feature
of high life. Settlement had so
far extended that saddlehorses
were a commonplace. History
was ripe for another advance.
It came with Governor
Macquarie on December 28,
1809. He was the first Governor
to import his own coachman —
Joseph Big. He himself was not
naturally a horseman. In his
youth Scottish candidates for
subalterns’ commissions were
lucky to have a pair of shoes,
much less a nag to ride. He
himself went to join his regiment
walking across Scotland carrying
his own portmanteau.
But in India he soon became
accustomed to horses—they were
an absolute necessity on cam-
paign, though, as he told a
friend in 1794, he was “not the
best horseman in the world.”
In those days he bestrode an
“old grey,” almost certainly an
Arab, while his wife did with
“a Turkai, very quiet and
gentle.” His marriage had
brought him into society and
the racing-set in Bombay. There
he went en fete to races run on
Back Bay Sands “between Mr.
Morley’s Arab horse Sheik and
Mr. O’Donnell’s Arab horse
Sultan —a sport that was highly
pleasing.” And his last gift to
his friend Sir Charles Forbes
when he finally left Bombay was
his racing saddles and a set of
blue favors to be worn by the
Forbes entry at the next races.
To New South Wales Mac-
quarie’s officers of the 73rd
Regiment, Indian veterans nearly
all of them, brought chargers,
and soon put horsemanship on a
new footing. They had not been
in the colony eight months be-
fore they were organising the first
race-meeting, which took place
in Hyde Park in October, 1810,
during three days of festival.
The distance was a clear two
miles —twice round a course of
one mile 40 yards—and three
heats were run to the race.
Handicapping was weight-for-
age throughout, while a few
individual matches were run off,
in one of which Mr. W. C.
Wentworth —who was 6ft. high
and heavy accordingly—rode his
father’s Gig to victory with Bst.
up. The first race in Australian
history, a 50-Guinea Plate, was
won by Captain Ritchie’s Chase
(six years; 8.6), a local horse
from the Hawkesbury second,
and Captain Cleaveland’s three-
year-old Rattler third.
The local horse Scratch, owned
by Mr. Benn, was the hero of
the crowd, and subjected to
“fraternal, libations” and
embraces. Historic names in
Australian racing and horse-
breeding (Cox, Bayly, Lord)
appeared in the second
programme, of August, 1811
—an original copy of which
still exists, the oldest race-book
to survive. Spring meetings have
been continuous in Australia
ever since.
Macquarie himself imported a
good Arab, which arrived in
June, 1814—the Forbes family
sent it to him from Bombay.
Aged seven years, it was 14.2
high and cost 700 rupees. First
sent to Batavia, where it re-
mained for some time and was
then brought on in the Frederick,
being altogether seven months
on board ship, it arrived “very
low in flesh,” did not stand up
long, and was replaced by the
faithful Sultan, which the Gov-
ernor bought from Captain
Piper and took home with him
when he left in 1822 —a pioneer
mount which carried a Governor
over many an Australian trail
hitherto without a hoof-mark.
In Governor Brisbane’s day
the foundation of the Turf Club
and the Mounted Police assured
Australia’s future as a horse
country and established us as a
racing nation.
Who in the 1820’s did nat
know Old Camerton, imported
by Lethbridge, of Toongabbie,
so often standing at Vine Cot-
tage on the Hunter and sired by
the winner of the famous race of
four entries at Stockbridge, Eng-
land, in which Shoestring’s
jockey broke an arm, Offa’s
Dyke went blind shortly after
the race, and a third horse
dropped dead at the post, leav-
ing Camerton, the winner, alone
whole? Camerton never raced
again. Who did not know
Skeleton, the sire of Jorrocks,
whose stamping-ground was
Riley’s Raby, a horse that had
once won five races out of six at
the Curragh, in Ireland, had been
sold by the Marquis of Sligo for
2400gns. and was eventually
bought from Prince Esterhazy,
at Tattersalls, for 700 gns. for
N. S. Wales? Who had not
heard of Satellite, little over 14
hands, but perfect in symmetry,
length, depth and muscle and
famous sire of troop-horses; of
Brown’s Model, standing at
Abbotsbury ; of Richard Jones’s
Legislator at Bayly Park; of
Piper’s Abdallah ; Macarthur’s
Saladin; and Captain Rossi’s
Rainbow?
It was their offspring that pur-
sued the bushranger and theirs
that opened the wide trails into
the interior, the north dnd the
far south.
In fact, it was they who made
the bushrangers into highway-
men ; for until the days of the
horse police few bushrangers
were mounted. Even Bold Jack
Donohoe and his three com-
panions boasted only a pack-
horse between the four of them
and no chargers of their own.


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
AUTUMN MEETING, 1953
AT RANDWICK RACECOURSE
4th, 6th, Bth, 11th APRIL
PRINCIPAL EVENTS
Ist Day—Saturday, 4th April
THE DONCASTER HANDICAP. £5,(T00 Added. One Mile.
THE A.J.C. ST. LEGER. £3,000 Added. One Mile and
Threequarters.
THE A.J.C. SIRES’ PRODUCE STAKES. £5.000 Added.
Seven Furlongs.
2nd Day—Monday, 6th April
THE SYDNEY CUP. £12,500 Added and a Gold Cup valued
at £5OO. Two Miles.
3rd Day—Wednesday, Bth April
THE ALL AGED STAKES. £2,000 Added. One Mile.
4th DAY—Saturday, 11 th April
THE A.J.C. PLATE. £2,000 Added. Two Miles and a Quarter
6 Bl?gh C Street, W - N. Parry-Okeden.
Sydney. Secretary.
SYDNEY ANNUAL EASTER SALES OF BLOODSTOCK
will b© held at NEWMARKET STABLES, RANDAYICK
as follows:
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS: 7th, 9th, 10th and 13th April, 1953
commencing at 10 a.m. each day
Intending buyers please note that a large number of the yearlings are now at
our Newmarket Stables, Randwick, and are available for private inspection
between 10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. and 2 p.m. and 4.80 p.m. daily.
BROOD MARES: THURSDAY, 16th APRIL, 1953
The Catalogue includes particulars of:—
145 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, many with foals at foot by well-known
sires and served again. t
STALLIONS, UNTRIED STOCK AND RACEHORSES-IN-TRAINING
FRIDAY, 17th APRIL, 1953
Particulars have already been received of the following.
STALLIONS : WHIRLAWAY (imp.), AGINCOURT (imp.), FACSIMILEI (imp.),
BENVOLO, WIRRALIE, AULD ACQUAINTANCE, GOLDEN ARROW, etc.
RACEHORSES: THESPIS, CAPULET, FUN FAIR, ROADSTOB, CHANEL
STAR, ZENEEP, PROPOSE, TUDOR GAI, GILTORAG, GILT GIRL, HAPPEE,
FATHOMS DEEP, GRAND MANNER, GLENISSA, LADY GRACIOUS,
LUPANDA, PENTATHOL, PROUD ARCHER, RED MEGGS, DUPLEIX,
BARTOLLBTTI, KEELAND, ROYAL PARADE, SILYERJAX, TONIC SON, etc.
Also a number of UNTRIED STOCK
WILLIAM INGLIS & SON PTY. LTD.
Bloodstock Salesmen
38 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Phones BL 2411, BL 3413
SPORTING NOTIONS
Final gallops this week could
make some difference to Don-
caster Handicap prospects at
Randwick this coming Saturday,
but it seems likely Tarien will
hold her place as favorite till
starting-time. There was little
about the racing at Warwick
Farm last Saturday to cause
any sharp revision of Don-
caster ideas ; that is, apart from
Raconteur’s elevation to second-
line of favoritism following his
stylish victory in the Liverpool
Handicap. His display in
winning at the Farm over
seven furlongs, in time a
fraction outside the course
record, was a sound Doncaster
pointer, and victory must have
been anticipated because he was
coupled extensively in Sydney
Cup doubles before the meeting
opened. Bronze Peak, who
came from second-last, also put
up a most creditable effort, and
he has firmed for the mile. None
of the runners in the Liverpool
Handicap which finished behind
that pair would appear Don-
caster hopes, though Oversight,
who started favorite and ran
fifth after being last-but-one at
the half-mile, will be better suited
by Randwick and the extra
furlong to cover. Tarien is
selected to win the Doncaster
from Oversight and Raconteur.
Carioca narrowly disposed of
Advocate, with Hydrogen the
closest of thirds, in the
Chipping Norton Stakes at
Warwick Farm in the parti-
cularly slow time of 2min.
15sec. for the mile-and-a-
quarter, which was 11 seconds
outside the best for the course,
an indication of the dawdling
pace in the early part of the race.
In fact it developed into a sprint
from the five furlongs, but the
finish was thrilling and, to most
punters, satisfactory, because the
hot favorite had his head in front
at the end of the race. No Cup
or weight-for-age guide could
arise from that mile-and-a-
quarter, nor would it be any
indication that Advocate will
give Melbourne colt Arbroath a
torrid time in the St. Leger, but
the win brought Carioca’s earn-
ings to £10,872, all but £635 of
which has been won this season.
From 19 starts he has won 12
races, and has been second three
times and third twice. Despite
his excellent record and the bril-
liance of his victories and
the shortness of his price
for the Sydney Cup, there
are many thousands who
believe he will be hard-pressed
to land the rich event on Easter
Monday. Picking a real stayer
for the Cup is probably the best
idea; that is, one who has had
experience at two miles. One
which has, and could win the
Cup is Welkin Sun, Who has 8.2,
and is selected to win from
Carioca and Friendly Feeling.
New Zealanders Regoli and
Red Jester —the latter has an
excellent Dominion record both
at weight-for-age and in handi-
caps—are expected to make the
Doncaster interesting for the
locals. Neither appeared at
Warwick Farm, but Regoli won
successive events at Canterbury
and Rosehill. Red Jester tackles
the big mile without a prior
Sydney start, which may be a
disadvantage, but only maybe,
because his astute trainer Jack
Cameron doesn’t require any
advice on what is necessary to
land a Doncaster. Sydneyites
remember him with The Hawk
and other smart performers.
Prelate didn’t run last Saturday,
but is ready to win a second
Doncaster. He ran minor places
at recent starts, while Bronze
Peak, who carried 7.13, his
Doncaster weight, into second-
place to Raconteur, will have
many friends because he was
last-but-one to enter the straight
at the Farm. His supporters
didn’t expect to find him toiling
in the rear at the half-mile, and
they were equally surprised when
he managed to reach second-
place after being so far back in
the field. In view of her excel-
lent form this season, however,
Tarien, on 7.10, or 101 b. above
the limit, seems well in.
• • • •
Friendly Feeling wasn’t greatly
fancied when she won the
Warwick Farm Edensor Park
Handicap, one mile, on March
7, but in two subsequent runs,
Rosehill (March 21) and at the
Farm on Saturday last, she was
a heavily-backed favorite. On
each occasion she covered rather
much ground but finished in
second-place. Her trainer, Reg
Ferris, has brought the staying
mare to her top for the Cup,
and should there be a wet track
—not many would appreciate
that eventuality—Friendly Feel-
ing could depose Carioca as
favorite. She had 8.8 on Satur-
day last and drops to 7.7 in the
Cup.
Bill Cook, who is to ride
Carioca, popular fancy for the
Sydney Cup, has had many
mounts in the two-miler since
he won it in 1929 on Cruets,
trained at Randwick by Danny
Lewis, but that is his only
success. His mount, a five-year-
old, belongs to a group which
has won 22 Cups, The four-
year-olds have had most suc-
cesses (30), while the three-year-
olds have landed 25 Cups.
Favorites have not met with
much success in the Cup, though
Sir Falcon (1950) and Cordale
(1946) were winning elects.
Carbon Copy, 1949 winner,
shared favoritism with De La
Salle. Lucrative’s 3min. 20|sec.
in 1941 is the race-record, one
second outside Australia’s best
held by Comic Court. The Barb,
Carbine, Mosaic and Veiled
Threat all won the Cup twice.
• • * •
Melbourne - owned and
-trained two-year-olds have had
a fair measure of success in the
AJ.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes in
recent years and also have
done well in the St. Leger.
At this Saturday's meeting
at Randwick it seems most
likely that Melbourne trainers
will lift both the St. Leger
and the Sires’ Produce
Stakes. Arbroath, Melbourne’s
crack three-year-old, who did so
well over the Flemington round
when he defeated Sydney chal-
lenger Advocate in the St.
Leger, looks like repeating the
victory in the AJ.C. classic,
while the brilliant Victorian filly
Surang, winner of V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, appears a rea-
sonably safe wager in the AJ.C.
Sires’ Produce. Melbourne also
has a smart second barrel in this
race, Cromis.
Silver Hawk, equal favorite
and winner of Caulfield Balwyn
Handicap, has an interesting
background. He is trained by
Harry Telford of Phar Lap
fame. Telford had not won a
race for a long time, but the grey
Silver Hawk was the medium of
“Got a light, dad?”
a plunge for the two-year-old
contest over six furlongs. It was
a welcome change of fortune
for the veteran mentor, who was
a prominent figure on Sydney
and Melbourne tracks when he
was carrying all before him
with Phar Lap. Jockey E. Pres-
ton also had a change of luck.
He hadn’t ridden a Melbourne
winner for a long time. Silver
Hawk’s sire is the imported Star
of Baroda, who is at the stud
in South Australia at a fee of
200gns. and is by noted Nearco
and from Adoree, a roan mare
by Beau Pere (imp.) from Dory-
lee (Fr.) by Xandover. Adoree
is dam of last - start Rosehill
winner Iroquois, and formerly
was at the stud in N.S.W.
In future the handicapper will
decide the penalty to be given
the winner of the AJ.C. Derby
if engaged in the Metropolitan,
13 furlongs, run two days later.
This is a wise move, because,
under existing conditions, with
a maximum 9.7 in the Metropoli-
tan, an unduly penalised three-
year-old is placed at a disadvant-
age if forced to carry w.f.a. over
the extra furlong and against
older, more seasoned and, in
most cases, better-performed
hofses. Deep River, winner of
the Randwick Derby last spring,
wasn’t engaged in the Metro-
politan won by Dalray. It is so
long since a three-year-old won
the Metrop, that his name has
probably never been heard of,
even, by veteran racegoers. He
was Lamond in 1888, and he
carried 6st. 41b. As thre% *
year-olds are seldom set twl
stiff task of running the 13
furlongs of the Metrop., the
changed rule isn’t likely to in-
duce any owner of the Derby
winner to contest the much
tougher handicap two days later.
There are much richer plums to
be won in Melbourne. How-
ever, it is a step in the right
direction, as is the 7st. limit in
this year’s Doncaster Handicap
and the Sydney Cup. Should
Advocate wan this Saturday’s
AJ.C. St. Leger he will have
nothing in his favor in the Syd-
ney Cup with 8.2 (w.f.a.) —he
now has 7.11. At 8.2 he would
have to meet Welkin Sun, a
proved two-miler, at equal
weights, and would be getting
71b. only from Carioca.
Channel Swell (imp.) sired the
winners of each division of a
Kembla Grange two-year-old
Novice, one of which. Penny
Whistle, is raced by Ken Living-
stone, of Moree (N.S.W.), a
member of the AJ.C. Penny
Whistle is a well-bred filly, and
her pedigree lines indicate she
should sprint with the best of
them when a little older. Her
dam, Happy Birthday, is a half-
sister to Courtship (a former
crack two-year-old) and to Best
Wishes (dam of Forest Beau).
Midswell, winner of the other
division, is raced by F. Litchfield.
The colt comes from the
Avenger and Swan River family.
• • • •
Randwick’s annual sales of
thoroughbred yearlings con-
ducted by William Inglis and
Son will extend over four days,
April 7,9, 10 and 13. First offer-
ings on the second day, Thursday
of next week, will be from the
famous Kia-Ora stud, and will
include 11 of the progeny of
imported Delville Wood, sire of
Hydrogen, Forest Beau, Friendly
Feeling and other good winners.
One of the Delville Wood’s is
from a sister to Shannon, while
another is a half-brother to
smart Sydney sprinter Artois.
Several Nilo’s from Lionel
Israel’s Segenhoe Stud, Scone,
will follow the Delville Wood’s,
and the list includes a brother
to First Row and a sister to
Evening Bell. The Precotant’s
will then come under the
hammer, portion of the offering
of the Sledmere Stud.
• • • •
Many winners of the AJ.C.
St. Leger did not compete in the
Sydney Cup two days later, and
over the years few classic win-
ners completed that elusive
double. Last to do so was Car-
bon Copy ♦in 1949. Lucrative
(1941) and Mosaic (1939) were
two others to win both events.
In 1947 Proctor finished second
to Vigaro in the St. Leger, then
won the Cup, in which Vigaro
didn’t compete. Going back to
earlier times, Winalot (1928)
won both the St. Leger and the
Sydney Cup, as did Wallace
(1896), Progress (1881), Petrea
(1880) and Fishhook (1867).
The Dan Lewis Randwick
stable had a mixed day at War-
wick Farm. Blue Jet won the
Second Fairfield Handicap,
Ocean Spray ran much below
expectations in the Autumn
Handicap and Triclinium
finished third in the Cabramatta
Handicap. All three carried the
stable confidence. The mile was
too far for Triclinium, but Blue
Jet earned a stake of £783, and
was backed from 4’s to 5 to 2.
He was capably handled by
Melbourne apprentice R. Ball.
The colt races in the same in-
terests as Triclinium. He was
bred in New Zealand by Mrs.
E. A. Selby, Hastings, and cost
HOOgns. as a yearling, the bid
of Dan Lewis. Blue Jet
is by Ruthless (imp.) from Ozel
by Brierfort (imp.) from Phrosa
by Limond (imp.) from Cowl,
and is related to several good
winners, one of whom, Brutus,
won a race at Randwick as well
as others in New Zealand.
* * *
In the last round of Adelaide’s
grade games Glenelg- beat West
Torrens (including Ridings) out-
right in one day. Shield star
Noblet (10-41) and Bailey (10-
47) did all the damage. Glenelg’s
skipper showed remarkable
prescience by closing (3-95)
when just one run more than
what W. Torrens was to tally
(29 and 65).
• • • •
Back from N.Z. the Spring-
boks rounded off their tour with
a game against W.A. It was a
happy affair, played more in the
social spirit than the grimness
of “big” cricket, and the visitors
won with 212 and 129 to W.A.’s
76 and 90. And thus the curtain
rings down on our cricket
season.
* * *
At Adelaide’s Kooyonga
course the existing records got
the same treatment as those at
Sydney’s Australian when the
champs went out for the
“Advertiser” £lOOO. Nagle’s
winning 279 included a new
record of 67, which Pickworth
equalled, and Italian Ugo Grap-
pasonni promptly cut a stroke
off that. Pickworth had the
prize won ftntil he dropped two
strokes in the last nine.
* * *
For a while it looked as if the
Ken Wenman (8.13 H v. Van
Woods (8.11) headliner at
Leichhardt wouldn’t get even as
far as starting, the Wenman side
objecting to Art Mawson being
ref., but the scrap finally got
going under control of Jack
Burns. Resembling Jimmy Car-
ruthers in appearance, although
not a southpaw. Van Woods
seldom took a backward step,
and his attacking made Wenman
retreat so much that bleacherites
bawled “Run away, Wenman!”
After losing six of the first eight
rounds, Wenman won the ninth
from end to end with his crisper
punching, and he went close to
dropping Van Woods with a left
in term 10. Van Woods, how-
ever, then landed a terrific right
counter in round 11 and Wen-
man slipped to his knee in the
last. Van, in fact, appeared to
present observer to win well.
Decision to Wenman.


Missing Friends
MEDHURST. —If this should come to the
notice of JAMES JOSEPH MEDHURST,
formerly of Armidale, N.S.W. (sometimes
known as McKenzie or McDonald) or
anyone knowing his address, please com-
municate with A. W. SIMPSON CO.,
Solicitors, Armidale, when something of
advantage to J. J. Medhurst will be fur-
nished.
DUNPHY (nee Nowland) : Would anyone
knowing the present whereabouts of the
descendants of Selina Dunphy kindly com-
municate with PERMANENT TRUSTEE
CO. OF N.S.W. LTD., 25 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HAROLD ARTHUR GARTH
late of Fitzroy Street Mittagong in the
State of ifrew South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE VIOLET GARTH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 816
of 1953 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the ex-
ercise of the Court’s discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an Appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 9th day of June
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
DWYER, DURACK, DUNPHY, 33
Barrack Street, Perth.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes No. 21 op 1953.
TO KENNETH WALLACE CHRIS-
TOPHER BARNES address unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PATRICIA
BARNES has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for divorce on the
ground of your desertion for a continuous
period of three years or more If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within forty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
Dated this 2Srd day of March, 1953,
Sgnd. G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
mI
The worlds favourite
appetiser /
¥oura
CIN2
tir
VERMOUTHS
Since ISIS
SWEET, DRY AND BIANCO
Serve CINZANO before dinner,
neat or mixed in cocktails.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Royal Easter Show
Sydney’s Royal Show opened
last Friday (the official opening
is today) to a rather bleak morn-
ing and a chill, snatching wind,
and although official figures set
the attendance as about normal,
there did seem to be more room
than usual to move around. The
weather and business soon
warmed up, however, and
attendance records were being
broken on subsequent days.
Wandering about among the
amazing displays of produce,
cattle, dogs, machinery and
manufactures and searching for
something that seemed more
magnificent or more plentiful
than last year, the present com-
mentator was surprised to note
that if there is more of any one
thing this year than last it seemed
to be the number of pumps furi-
ously and noisily drawing water
from tanks and troughs and
sending it just as furiously
splashing back into the same
troughs and tanks.
There are streams of blue
water, red water, gold water,
green water and purple water, all
rushing, bubbling and splashing
for the admiration of the spec-
tators, most of whom are more
fascinated by the water itself
than by the undoubted efficiency
of the machinery which draws
it from the tank and sends it
gushing back into it again.
There is something symbolic
about these pumps ; they repre-
sent the show itself —a vast
mechanism which each year
draws up the wealth of the State,
and more than half its popula-
tion, and, for a few days, sends
the lot rushing, bubbling and
splashing in multicolored streams
through the showgrounds.
And, as it is with the water
pumps, it is with the spectacle and
movement and noise ; the appar-
ently endless stream of proud
animals, of produce, of farm
machinery, of other mechanical
aids to living, and of people of
all sizes, shapes and standing—
it is these things which attract
and fascinate. The organisation
or mechanism which draws them
all up and gushes them out in
such brilliant display is so good,
so efficient, hat it conceals itself
completely.
Stage and Music
Goossens and Schneiderhan
The Sydney Orchestra under
Goossens commenced the sub-
scription season most auspi-
ciously. Although the “Belfagor”
Overture with which the pro-
gramme opened is not in
Respighi’s best vein, the fling-
ing-about from instrument to
instrument of the strident, dia-
bolic-sounding theme was done
with great verve, and the wind-
ing-up presto carried through
with an exhilarating abandon.
The symphony selected was
Elgar’s First, “written,” as the
composer says, “in a cypher to
which every hearer possesses a
key in his own experience.” Be
that as it may, the thematic' sub-
jects of this work have only a
limited appeal, but in their
working-out Elgar called upon a
richness of orchestral color un-
matched in this century. Of this
Goossens and his forces took
full advantage. The string and
woodwind choirs built up the
best-toned climaxes' yet heard
from the orchestra.
Wolfgang Schneiderhan was
soloist in the Beethoven Violin
Concerto, and his playing was
marked by great purity of tone,
beautifully facile bowing and
deep concentration—he has no
showy tricks, no mannerisms.
Goossens kept an excellent bal-
ance between the orchestra and
the solo instrument —the pic-
turesque figurations of the
Ear ghetto were capitally demon-
strated by M. Schneiderhan —
and gave to the peasant dance
in the Rondo a full measure of
carefree joyousness.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ring Round the Moon”
Christopher Fry’s adaptation
of Anouilh’s comedy “L’lnvita-
tion au Chateau” is much nearer
the mark than the title he chose
for it, and it may well be that
the work was improved by an
occasional Fry fugue on
Anouilh’s themes in one or two
places.
Staged by Brisbane’s Twelfth
Night Theatre in an attractive set
that necessarily looked like the
dust-cover of the book and an
M.-G.-M. technicolor sequence,
the slight piece tells of the ruse
of a brother to thwart the
romantic schemes of his twin.
To a ball given exclusively for
his associates—a group of the
useless, social rich—he intro-
duces temptation in the form of
a ballet-dancer groomed for the
occasion in both attitudes and
attire. The resultant romantic
havoc is as old as Shaw’s
“Pygmalion” and Ashley Dukes’s
“Mask of Virtue,” to which it
owed more than one telling
point, and the piece relies on
delicate, sophisticated presenta-
tion rather than on plot for its
success.
To Donagh McDonagh, server
of this Gallic effervescence, goes
all credit, particularly for his
smooth blend of mime, dancing
and straight acting. As mistresses
at varying stages of success in
their professions, Diana Bell and
Gwen Wheeler gave superb per-
formances, and in contrast with
those high-class hussies, Dawn
Rees gave a moving study of the
dancer, the role in which Claire
Bloom was first limelighted.
As the twin brothers, Peter
Wagner makes a clear distinc-
tion of the two characters, but
as the matriarch Margaret
Rutherford in the original—Jean
Jarrott spoke with insufficient
authority. Fry’s sub-title “A
Charade With Music” was fully
and happily realised.
Seefried
Irmgard Seefried’s programme
at Melbourne Town Hall was
substantially the same as her first
Sydney concert. It is doubtful if
Melbourne has heard a voice
more pure or less affected by
“accents,” Italian, German or
any other, or a panel of songs
sung with mpre feeling and
understanding than the
“Woman’s Life and Love” of
Schumann. They have been well
sung before, but the Viennese
singer brought out nuances no-
body suspected were there.
Her husband, Wolfgang
Schneiderhan, gave a. second
concert in which his approach
was more academic than in the
first one. An orchestral player
turned soloist, he seemed to be
correct in tempo and note-per-
fect, but sometimes the vital
spark was missing.
•ijt <j<-
Cammeray Music Group
One of the best concentrations
in Australia of musical talent lies
in the Sydney suburb of Cam-
meray, which nurtured Musica
Viva, the best chamber-music
ensemble yet produced in this
country. At the concert given at
its Community Centre by the
vigorous young Music Group
two young singers and a pianist
were heard.
Mary Lanigan-O’Keeffe used
a richly-expressive contralto
which reaches up into mezzo-
soprano range in Schubert liecfer,
most attractively sung, and
Gaelic folksongs, Richard
Linden, whose light-baritone of
nice timbre is correctly produced
but who still has some weight to
add to it, brought considerable
artistry to • his singing of arias
from “Faust” and “The Marriage
of Figaro,” and to a group of
ballads.
Marta Zalan, a pianist of great
promise from Hungary, brought
a dazzling technique to bear on
the brilliant intricacies of Liszt’s
“Mephisto Waltz” and a flowing
nimbleness to a bracket of
Scarlatti sonatas.
❖ ❖ ❖
Andre Marchal’s first Aus-
tralian recital, given on the
organ of the Brisbane City Hall,
showed a masterly arrangement
of styles. Commencing with the
well-known trumpet tune and
air by Purcell, he ranged through
lesser-known works, by early
French composers Couperin,
Lebegue and Daquin, to the
climax, the great Passacaglia and
Fugue of Bach. This pro-
gramme would have been a trial
for, any organist; it was
triumphant for a man with
Marchal’s handicap of blindness.
Talkies
“Battle Circus”
A mobile operating hospital
unit behind the Korean front is
the setting for this fairly-well-
contrived drama. It succeeds in
conveying with clarity the many
problems with which such a unit
is confronted when heavy
casualties start rolling in, and
the smoothness and speed with
which it must and can be moved
when the military exigencies
compel it.
Humphrey Bogart is a surgeon
who, between spells of driving
himself mercilessly at his work,
seeks amorous diversion with
such nurses as will listen to his
blandishments and, occasionally,
the whisky bottle. June Ally son
is a nurse newly drafted to the
unit; their rather casual love
affair is salted by some Bogartian
toughness and whimsical frank-
ness.
This aspect is, however, of far
less attraction than the operat-
ing and other scenes inside the
hospital; these give the impres-
sion of authenticity, and seem to
have been done with the co-
operation of Army medical
authorities.
Keenan Wynne as a reliable,
hard-driving sergeant and
Robert Keith as Bogart’s C.O.
turn in authoritative portrayals,
and there is sufficient light
comedy to offset the grimness of
some of the proceedings. At
Sydney St. James.
* ❖ *
“Lullaby of Broadway”
Despite a story that is even
more infantile than most of its
kind, this hoof-’n’-croon at Syd-
ney Mayfair gets by with really
excellent dancing by Doris Day
and, more particularly. Gene
Nelson (who is one of the best
eccentric tap-dancers the screen
has produced), a few snappily-
worded, tuneful songs and good
comedy work by Billy de Wolfe
and a bright newcomer, Ann
Triola, as a pair of vaudevillians
down on their luck, with S. Z.
Sakall, always delightful in his
character studies —this time as a
gay old blonde-fancier with a
forbidding wife (Florence Bates).
The pace is brisk.
Duncan Macdougall
Duncan Macdougall, of Play-
box Theatre fame, has gone to
his rest, closing an exciting
chapter in the history of the
theatre in Sydney, where he was
a vital figure for nearly 20 years.
As a young fellow I was
admitted to Duncan’s inner
circle, and was associated with
him in all his ups and downs and
many battles until he gave up
the role of actor-manager for
teaching dramatic art and
gardening at Artarmon (Sydney),
As a boy Duncan was with
Angus and Robertson in its early
years ; later he went abroad and
had a repertory company of his
own in London, where he lived
with Ramsay MacDonald, and in
New York, where he was a friend
of Eugene O’Neill.
Returning to Sydney about
1920, he gave a season of plays
at the St. James’s Hall, Phillip-
street, which set the critics buzz-
ing. All the plays were new to
Sydney audiences, and I can still
recall my excitement at seeing
O’Neill’s “The Hairy Ape,”
Ernest Toller’s “Masses and
Man,” and Georg Kaiser’s
“From Morn to Midnight.”
Calling upon Duncan with an
offer of help in the work he was
doing to put new life into the
theatre in Sydney, I was
promptly recruited to play a part
in a play by Anatole France. I
was a flop, and Duncan decided
that I would be more use to him
as his publicity-manager.
By then he had started his
Playbox Theatre in Rowe-street,
which I described as a “lane that
had strayed from the Latin
Quarter of Paris,” which de-
lighted Duncan immensely. On
a pocket-handkerchief stage, with
hardly a penny in his pocket, but
with all the pluck in the world,
he set out to give Sydney some-
thing new in the way of drama.
The commercial theatre was
pursuing its old course of giving
the usual run of musical
comedies, revivals and tame
London successes.
Gregan McMahon had not
long moved in from Melbourne,
and was doing a good service
with plays which would other-
wise not have been seen in Aus-
tralia. Duncan, who was as
revolutionary as McMahon was
conservative, left McMahon to
the production of safe repertory
pieces by Milne, Drinkwater,
Maugham and Chesterton, and
went in for new, bolder and
experimental productions. The
two men were keen rivals.
At Rowe-street, and later at
Crown-street, East Sydney, and
Young-street, near Circular
Quay, the' Playbox Theatre
packed them in with such plays
as Sean O’Casey’s “Juno and
the Paycock,” Karel Capek’s
“R.U.R.,” O’Neill’s “The
Emperor Jones,” Marc Con-
nelly’s “Green Pastures,” Frank
Wedekind’s “Spring’s Awaken-
ing” and half-a-hundred more —
all lively box-office attractions
with a kick in them. Duncan
made no money, but he knew
how to pick and produce a play,
and he turned out some fine
young actors and actresses. As
an actor he was best in parts like
the “Paycock” himself, or the
downtrodden pushcart vendor in
Anatole France’s “Crainque-
bille.”
Duncan dearly loved a fight,
and often got into holts with the
critics. I witnessed many a
verbal battle between him and
such men as Paddy Nolan, Billy
O’Neill, Gerald Thompson and
the redoubtable C. N. Baeyertz.
Once, he and Gregan McMahon
fought it out for weeks in the
pink pages of the old “Sunday
Times,” until the editor, Mick
Shanahan, threatened to shoot
both of them if he saw them
about the premises.
The theatre and old books
were his great loves. He lived a
bread-and-butter existence to
produce the plays he wanted to
produce in his own way, despite
tempting offers by commercial
interests, and Sydney playgoers
are indebted to him for many a
brave performance.
Sydney will miss the little
pink - cheeked, silver - haired
Duncan with his musical voice
and merry, smile, his zest for life
and his ever-ready helping hand
to anyone in distress.
W.E.F.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
STALIN: POST-MORTEM
Stalin is still very much alive
in overseas summings-up on the
dictator and his reign. And
they’re not pulling their punches.
His character, his career, his
achievements and their cost, and
his mistakes —all are themes of
the countless post - mortem
assessments, of which samples
are here given from latest air-
mails.
* * * *
Berlin “A bend” : “What, after
all, were Stalin’s achievements?
The answers are —annihilation
of the Russian middle-class,
organised starving to death of
three million Ukrainians, com-
plicity in Hitler’s war, the
massacre of the Poles at Katyn,
enslavement of a large part of
Europe, and the menacing of the
rest of the world. Finally, the
liquidation of his own ‘Com-
munist old guard’ on the gallows
or by means of bullet in the hack
of the head.”
*** , *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “It is
probable that in official history
he will be written down as dae
hero who saved his country in
the great patriotic war. But
more percipient historians may
record rather that he maintained
in Russia in the name of Com-
munism the very type of bureau-
cratic and autocratic rule against
which the early revolutionaries
rebelled. The Marquis de
Custine’s book on Russia in
1839 is still pertinent today.
Russian Government seems to
have reverted to type in both
internal and external affairs.
Hitler’s defeat and death marked
the end of a tyranny. In Russia
the system endures. The yoke
forged for the Russian peoples
and the non-Russian satellites
remains.”
* * * *
Washington correspondent,
London “Sunday Times”:
“Some of Mr. Eisenhower’s
advisers, particularly among
military men, consider that
Stalin was a restraining influ-
ence, that he had a sound appre-
ciation of American industrial
and atomic power, and that, as
builder of the new Russia, he
would not demolish his life’s
work by starting a war.
Malenkov has never been outside
Russia, and he may be forced to
‘out-aggress’ his competitors for
power in the Kremlin.”
* * * ♦
“Yorkshire Post’s” diplomatic
correspondent agrees on the
“restraining-influence” theory:
“Cold, calculating and utterly
opportunist as he has been,
Stalin has been a restraining
influence. That Soviet policy
has not taken the fatal plunge
of launching another world war
history may well prove to be
due to Stalin’s caution. Rash-
ness had never been a quality of
the Soviet ruler. That was his
main difference from Hitler.”
The same : “He miscalculated
[American reaction to the Korea
aggression], not for the first time.
He overestimated the power of
France in resisting the Nazi
onslaught, having deluded him-
self that his pact with Hitler was
a master-stroke and that the
West would exhaust itself in a
prolonged conflict, and Europe
thus become an easy prey to
Communism. Similarly he
underestimated the power of the
Chinese Communists and did
not seem to have foreseen their
victory over Chiang Kai-shek.”
* * * *
London “Spectator,” also on
his limitations: “In the war, in
spite of an indomitable resolu-
tion, various intellectual weak-
nesses were revealed. Mr.
Churchill, with all his mastery
of English, can hardly find terms
adequate to express his views on
the folly of Stalin in closing his
eyes deliberately or uncon-
sciously to the imminence of
Hitler’s attack on Russia in 1941.
‘Nothing,’ he, writes, ‘that any
of us could do pierced the
purblind prejudice and fixed
ideas which Stalin had raised be-
tween himself and the terrible
truth.’
“That is a considered judg-
ment, recorded several years
after the event. No one can
question its justice, and no one
who recognises its justice can
fail to realise its fundamental
inconsistency with the belief in
Stalin’s military and political
London “Daily Mail”
THE TIGERS' DEN
omniscience pervading his own
country.
“In the later stages of the war,
moreover, he seemed intellec-
tually quite incapable, in spite
of the lucidity with which it was
explained to him, of understand-
ing the immense magnitude of
the preparations necessary before
the Second Front in the West,
for which he was so insistently
pressing, could be created.
“He counted more for force
of character than for force of
brain.”
* * * *
London “Daily Mail” : “Stalin
was his own law. He was above
Parliaments and Politburos. One
breath of disapproval from him
and thousands died. He was the
most powerful individual of our
time. He was a malevolent
demigod.”
* * * *
Edward Crankshaw, in
London “Observer” : “Stalin
will be remembered with a
shudder for his atrocities. But
all Russian autocrats commit
atrocities. And he will also be
remembered with Ivan and Peter
and Catherine for his colossal
achievement in a land where
nothing material has ever been
achieved unless it was colossal,
nor without an infinity of
human sacrifice....
“In one mood they [the
Russians] seem to feel that
nothing is worth achieving unless
10,000 souls have died for it.
Stalin achieved a great deal. His
vision demanded 10,000,000, not
10,000, individual sacrifices.”
The same: “Stalin made
Russia into a Power strong
enough not only to dominate
Europe but also to face the only
Power strong enough in herself
to dominate the world. That is
not nothing. His methods were
the methods of the Russian auto-
cratic tradition carried to their
atrocious conclusion with the
help of twentieth - century
science.”
The same: “Stalin brought
upon his people limitless physical
suffering. He calculated that if
he could drive they could
endure; and he was right. But
just as he ruined Russian agri-
culture in the process of improv-
ing it, so he crushed the mind of
his people in the process of
educating them.
“Again, he sought strength
and security for Russia and made
her to all appearances stronger
and more secure than ever in her
history—and in the process of
so doing wakened and quickened
the sleeping might of a civilisa-
tion greater than his own. He
killed by-excess what he sought
to build. This may be the way
of dictators everywhere. It is
certainly the way of autocrats
in Russia.”
The same: “History, writing
an ironic footnote to the pre-
tensions of the Bolsheviks, may
well say that Stalin’s supreme
gift to Russia was to provide her
for the first time with a strong
middle-class, called into being
by the quest for steel, without
which, in the modern world, no
civilisation can begin to ripen.”
* * * *
London “Observer ” com-
ment : “The person of Stalin
was the kingpin that held the
Communist third of the world
together. It did so by a unique
combination of political genius,
legend and personal power.
None of this is transferable to
another pepson—not even the
power, which Stalin slowly
accumulated over many years,
and much of which attached to
his person rather than to any of
his offices or even to the sum of
them ; still less the legend ; and
least of all the political genius.”
Same : “ ‘Stalinism,’ the un-
questionable supremacy of one
man whom a self-created legend
raised above human level, was
Stalin’s own invention, and the
position he created for himself
was made to his own measure;
he never cared to give it con-
stitutional definition and assured
continuity.
“Nor did he clearly designate
an heir-presumptive. On the
contrary, by keeping formal and
constitutional power in the hands
of committees rather than of
single personalities, he seems to
have deliberately seen to it that
he should have no real
successor.”
• • • •
Same: “The transition from
Stalin is now complicated by the
mutual fear which his successors
in party, State and Army must
harbor towards one another; a
struggle for power has been
turned into a struggle for life.
“It would be rash to assume
that this struggle is bound to
break out at once; the death of
Stalin may for a while arrest the
incipient purge and shock all
contestants into a cautious
watchfulness. But it is hard to
see how a struggle can be
avoided ; and it is equally hard
to see how it can fail to burst
the crust of artificially main-
tained political unanimity.”
Same: “Stalin was strong
enough to enforce for a
quarter of a century a heroic
and unpopular policy of
unrelenting effort without
reward and war-like austerity in
peace-time. Some of his
successors will no doubt try to
maintain this policy, but others
will inevitably be tempted to
fortify themselves in popular
support by plumping for the two
more natural alternatives:
relaxation or war, which
justifies every effort and sacrifice.
It would not be surprising if
party, State and Army were to
split along these three lines.”
* * * *
London “Economist” : “What
will be the final verdict on the
man who wielded for so long
such unprecedented power and
on the use he made of it?
“Nothing in Stalin’s visible
personality seemed to mark him
for such a role. His dullness is
best seen when contrasted with
the brilliance of his chief
opponent and victim. Trotsky
was a gifted theoretician, a
talented writer, a brilliant orator.
Stalin was a crude and scholastic
theoretician, his style was
pedestrian, his speeches dull.
Trotsky had Danton’s brilliance
and more. Stalin was like
Robespierre at his greyest. But
he also had patience, cunning, a
ruthless determination, an extra-
ordinary capacity for manipulat-
ing meri and a limitless ability to
recover from most difficult posi-
tions, to make up for short-
sightedness or initial blunders.”
The same: “Yet Stalin,
measured by his deeds, is a
giant. In 10 years he changed
the face of Russia. He trans-
formed the Russian muzhiks
into collective farmers or indus-
trial workers. With the surplus
labor-power from the villages
created by collectivisation he
embarked on an unprecedented
experiment in planned indus-
trialisation. When war broke
out Russia had a heavy industry
sufficiently developed to with-
stand the German onslaught.
Despite the ravages of war the
Russian economy recovered
enqugh to make the Soviet
Union the second industrial
Power in the world,
“The costs, however, were at
least on the same scale as the
achievements. The burden in
humanity cannot be measured
only by the millions of forcibly
uprooted peasants or by the
victims of concentration camps.
The whole police regime with its
terror, spies, trials and purges,
with the complete loss of
personal freedoms, must be set
on the debit side of Stalinism.”
The same: “The evil that
men do lives after them, and a
tyranny may be more dangerous,
more irresponsible, when the
man who created it has gone
from the scene. There is, in fact,
no knowing what may happen
in the internal affairs and
foreign policy of the Soviet
Union without the shrewd,
cautious and flexible judgment
of Stalin.”
% % #
“Yorkshire Post” comment:
“Churchill has written eloquently
of the icy intellectualism which
served Lenin in his different acts
of extermination. Stalin could
be equally ruthless; but his
ruthlessness was, so to speak,
less sophisticated; it was 'the
harshness of a primitive man,
close to nature, red in tooth and
claw.”
• • • •
Same: “In his rise to power
it was his primitive callousness
that served Stalin best. Lenin
was struck and somewhat dis-
gusted by his bad manners, and
when the succession became
open Stalin shouldered his rivals
aside with the primitive callous-
ness of a lion among the
hyenas.”
New York “H e raid
Tribune”: “He has been a
massive force, an embodiment of
brute power. His life was filled
with the sufferings of poverty,
persecution, imprisonment, and
with ail those more subtle suf-
ferings which his crimes must
have inflicted on even so unfeel-
ing a conscience as his own. He
lived amid violence, with revolu-
tions and purges, wars and
assassinations the ordinary
instruments of his power.
“Churchill, with the historic
sweep of his mind, could see the
heroic proportions of Stalin as
defender of the Russian people
against the Nazi invaders, and
yet could keep the awareness of
this man’s utter insensibility to
the standards and decencies
which guide others through ilfe.
“In the end, something of this
twofold verdict will undoubtedly
prevail.”
* * * ♦
“New York Times”: “No
man in his lifetime, at least in
recent history, has ever occupied
the position of Stalin. Quite
aside from his absolute authority
as a dictator he became in his
own person a symbol and a
synonym for a power beyond
the Government. His word was
the law and the gospel. Who
else can take on ffie mantle of
divinity? It will take years of
patient propaganda to create
such a cult around another man.
The halo cannot be easily trans-
ferred. In this sense the loss of
Stalin is an irreparable loss to
the Communist world.”
• • • •
The same: “One quality in his
regime that will certainly not
disappear with Stalin is its
ruthlessness.
“It was that quality in him
which has most impressed the
outside world, and in calling
himself ‘Man of Steel’ he no
doubt sought to disseminate this
impression. He was equally
ruthless whether dealing with an
individual who stood in his way
or the millions of peasants who
thwarted his policy or nations
whom he wished to absorb.
“That is not an unugual feature
in Russian history, which con-
tains only too many examples
of cold-blooded ferocity and
calculated perfidy among the
rulers. Stalin stood in the
succession, not only of Lenin,
but of Ivan the Terrible. He
was the last, or at any rate the
latest, of the Tsars; and his
tyranny was more far-reaching
than theirs in that he added
scientific efficiency to their lust
for power.
“In one matter only did he
differ from some of his eminent
predecessors. Peter the Great
and Lenin, for example, both
knew something of the West
because they had lived and
worked there. Stalin had not the
slightest conception of life or of
thought outside Russia.”
. . • •
The same: “Years from now
his saga will still seem an
incredible one.
“The son of a poor Georgian
shoemaker, he became the most


-INSURANCE —for your protecf/on-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
t (Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong )
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
Telephone BWBI3I
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
(3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manag
er.
powerful single individual in the
world.
“A student for the priesthood
in his youth, he became the most
influential advocate of atheism
in world history, though in the
place of the worship of God he
substituted obeisance before his
own infallibility and omniscience.
“A non-Russian, he became
the master of the Russians and
one of the greatest figures in all
Slavic history.
“A poor linguist who never
learned to speak Russian per-
fectly, he humbled all his realm’s
philologists before him and
made them accept his theory of
language as the absolute truth.
“A relatively minor figure in
the Bolshevik Revolution of
1917, he had history rewritten
so as to emerge second only to
Lenin.
“A man who constantly feared
death and went to fantastic
lengths to protect himself, he
sent millions to their graves,
including most of the outstand-
ing figures who accomplished
the historic upheaval whose
rewards he inherited.”
The same: “That his achieve-
ments were notable cannot be
gainsaid. He took a backward
agrarian country and converted
it into the second mightiest
industrial Power on earth. He
undid the great work of 1861
and reinstituted serfdom for tens
of millions of peasants, masking
the change by claims of creating
a new higher form of agricul-
tural organisation, the collective-
farm. He built mighty armies
and air-fleets which threw back
the German attacks and then
reduced all Eastern Europe to
vassal States of Moscow. He
fostered the world Communist
movement until it reached such
dimensions that it conquered
China and presented the greatest
challenge ever faced by
Western civilisation.
“But his people and the other
peoples of the world paid an
enormous price for these achieve-
ments. At his doorstep must be
London “Daily Express”
“Cheer up, skipper! If General
Neguib still lets us go through
the Suez Canal and General
Chiang Kai-shek hasn’t sunk us
off Formosa, one of these days
soon we shall be shipping a
lovely cargo of shilling shirts in
Yokohama.”
lafd the millions of victims
claimed by the collectivisation
campaign and the famine which
accompanied it in the early
nineteen-thirties. In his account
must be reckoned the guilt for
the cynical deal with Hitler in
1939 which gave the go-ahead
signal for the Second World
War and its enormous sacrifices.
On his conscience, if he had any,
lay the burden of shame for the
enslavement of millions in the
forced-labor camps, and for the
semi-enslavement of the millions
of workers chained to the
factories by legislative fiat.
“By his order the steps were
taken which catastrophically
reduced the standard of living
of his people after 1928 so that
he might have a giant industry
which could build the sinews of
war. From his example of deceit
and falsehood came the inspira-
tion for the world of lies in
which the Commuhist-ruled
peoples of the world live today.
“For the realisation of his
ambitions for world conquest he
dared to throw away the good-
will his people had earned
abroad during the Second World
War and plunge the earth into
the greatest armament race ever
known.
“He wore the mantle of the
high-priest of utopian Com-
munism, but his rule produced
a reality most reminiscent of
George Orwell’s vision of hell
on earth.”
• • • •
The same: “Stalin the Man
was in many wa>s overshadowed
by Stahn the Myth. Hp was a
figure apart. Russians were told
almost nothing of his private
and family life, and absolutely
nothing of his human faults.
Always he was pictured as the
‘genius architect,’ the ‘great
leader,’ the ‘great teacher.’
Soviet citizens came to regard
him as a personification of their
country.
“Out of the Stalin myth flowed
a large part of the stature and
power he wielded. Accordingly,
Malenkov cannot pick up
Stalin’s sceptre ; he must fashion
his own.”
• • • •
The same: “In any case, the
world has little reason to cheer
the change. For the new men
who now hold in their hands
the final decisions in one of the
mightiest empires in history
have long demonstrated their
hostility to the free world.
Malenkov in particular has been
Stalin’s right-hand man in
tightening the oppression of the
Soviet peoples and in extending
the subjugation of other nations.
“Thus the tyrant is gone but
the tyranny remains. And the
dangers with which the free
world has long been confronted
may even be increased. For
while in his later days Stalin, the
victorious empire-builder, could
afford to rest on his laurels and
play his game with caution, his
successor will be driven no.t only
by the dynamism of the Com-
munist movement, which cannot
stand still without collapsing,
but also by the urge to gather
laurels of his own to fortify his
power and authority.”
Looking at Television
In Britain television licences
have passed the two-million
mark. “The fascinating gadget
of a few years ago,” comments
London “Times” editorially, “is
already a powerful instrument,
affecting the culture of the
nation,” and “its influence, for
good or for evil, must grow”:
“Already 80 per cent, of the
population of the United
Kingdom is within reach of tele-
vision, Five big transmitting
stations are in action and five
smaller ones are being held up
only by competing demands on
capital expenditure of defence
and of the export trade. Two
of these will be ready, on a
low-power, temporary basis, in
time to allow Newcastle and
Belfast to see the Coronation.
“As soon as the economic
state of the nation permits, tele-
vision will be available for every
home, with few exceptions, in
this island and in Northern
Ireland.
“The inevitable rise of this
revolutionary means of spread-
ing information, education and
entertainment, and of shaping
taste, presents a choice which
must be firmly made. Nothing
would be easier than to go
ahead seeking to tickle the palate
of the big battalions. Nothing
would be more fatal.
“If television were conducted
with the aim of amusing the
largest possible audience at all
hours, it would be a Trojan horse
dragged within the home and
spreading ruin among the values
which make national life alert,
sane and precious. A passive
approach to their responsibilities
by those in charge of television
would create, as it appears to
be in danger of creating in
America, a generation that glues
its eyes to the screen while its
wits go woolgathering.
“Television, unlike sound-
broadcasting, cannot easily be
used as a background to other
activities. It presents a perpetual
temptation to a most insidious
form of modern lotus-eating.
“Every television programme,
whether it be grave or gay,
New York “Herald Tribune"
WHAT’S BOILING IN THE SAMOVAR?
should have a positive creative
impulse behind it, for by no
other means can it stimulate
viewers to healthy reaction. Such
programmes will be beyond the
capacities of even the most
resilient producers if they have
to be turned out as from a
moving factory-belt for fear of
complaints that some hours of
the day have to pass unfortified
by television.
“Quality is the paramount
consideration, and the cries that
will no doubt be heard for
greatly extended hours should be
disregarded. Quality would be
enhanced, performances
improved, material kept on a
higher level, and television be
accorded its proper place in daily
life if a moderate and sensible
system of repeating the major
items could become a feature of
the programmes.
“Looking ahead at the
inescapable consequences of
television, there is a point of
great importance, unconnected
with drama and variety, pageant
and sport, to be taken into
account. The conduct of public
life in a democracy vyill have to
be adjusted to meet the new
opportunities as it has already
been by sound broadcasting. A
general election and the argu-
ments of political leaders be-
tween elections are no longer
presented to the public as they
were when the platform and the
printed word had the field to
themselves.
“Every one knows, from
experience since the war, that
party fortunes have been
materially affected by the ability
of the combatants to state their
views with sincerity and per-
suasiveness on the air. When
politicians can be seen as well as
heard in the quiet of millions of
family gatherings, they will be
faced with the necessity of learn-
ing a new technique.”
Or perhaps it might be said
they’ll be under the necessity of
relearning the old one. Or will
it be that actors will come into
a field in which they haven’t
hitherto made much of a mark,
with Hollywood then providing
the U.S. President, the Old Vic.
erupting Britain’s Prime
Minister and Australia’s P.M.
emerging from the late haunts of
Mo?
Suez Retreat
The delaying of Field-Marshal
Sir William Slim’s departure for
Canberra indicated, says London
“Economist,” how much
importance Britain attached to
the “quality of the delegation”
to discuss the Suez with Neguib.
It had to “command the con-
fidence of the British public and
Parliament, both of which are
now alive to the danger of
surrendering something for
Middle East Defence system,” on
which Sir William Slim, as a
specially well qualified Middle
East expert, will be able to give
Canberra the best of advice.
In regard to the Suez, how-
ever, London “Observer,” a
supporter of J. Bull’s retreat
from Empire, declared that the
eventual outcome of the talks
was “inevitable”:
“British troops will be with-
drawn and the defence of the
area will become either an
Egyptian or an international
responsibility. We [British] are,
in effect, deliberately preparing
to give General Neguib a great
diplomatic success in the hope
of gaining a real friend. This
policy....is part of the far-
sighted arid admittedly daring
grand design of saving and
rejuvenating Britain’s world
system by changing its basis from
occupation and paternalism to
co-operation by consent.”
Dragnet Digest
Headline News. —Edinburgh
“Scotsman”: “We see no rea-
son to comment on the head-
line; ‘Churchill keeps Slim in
Britain.’ ”
Pre-war Bombo. London
“Daily Telegraph,” in a com-
ment on the new Jap trade com-
petition : “Before the war one
could buy in the Far East a
Japanese beverage labelled ‘King
Victoria Scottish Whiskey:
made only from the finest
grapes.’ ”
Ike Moves. —President Eisen-
hower (leading Washington
commentator James Reston has
stated in “New York Times”)
“will consult the allies ahead
of any important moves, but he
will not wait for their approval,”
because “his judgment is that he
cannot depend for the security of
this country [U.S.A.] or of theirs
without bold action.”
Ex-sorghum. —London “Daily
Telegraph” gets a little conso-
lation out of the Queensland
sorghum fiasco: “It has been
conclusively shown in Australia,
as in Africa, that the setting-up
of huge Government farms is
not the way to intensify agricul-
tural production. We may be
thankful that we have lost only
money in learning a lesson
which Russia learnt (and
ignored) at the cost of famine
and slaughter, and which her
satellites are now bitterly prov-
ing again.”
Doubtful Panacea. —London
“Financial Times” sees “a lot of
wishful-thinking” in the notion
that if only trade were free
everything would come right
with Britain’s dollar balance:
“Why it should be blithely
assumed that if tariffs were
swept away the export of British
manufactured goods to the
United States would go up by
leaps and bounds is wholly be-
yond comprehension. For, ex-
cept in a few specialised lines,
there is nothing produced in this
country that the Americans can-
not produce for themselves,
either better or more cheaply.”
Corns Decline. —ln Britain
(reports “Manchester Guardian”)
the membership of the Com-
munist party shows a sharp de-
cline on the figures of a year
ago. It gives examples: In the
London area the drop is 24 per
cent, and in Lancashire and
Cheshire 16 per cent. The fall
in the membership of the Young
Communist League is 25 per
cent, in London and 32 per cent,
in Lancashire and Cheshire.
“Liberators.” Far East
expert O. M. Green, in
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “It is
very hard for China’s Com-
munists now to keep up the
pretence of being liberators,
while even in the family circle
every Chinese is acutely aware of
their far-reaching espionage and
the perils which wait on an un-
guarded word.”
Singapore ) Base. —
Seeing reason to believe that the
Malay terrorists’ “network of
command and intelligence is
centred in Singapore,” London
“Daily Telegraph” points out
that certainly arms, and money
in vast quantities, have passed
across the straits to the terrorists
in Johore. It adds: “There are
signs that Singapore may soon
find itself something more than
»a comparatively quiet base for
subversive operations. In the
new ‘soft’ emergency it may find
itself in the front line.’ ”
Iron Curtain Jews. —A Haifa
correspondent of London “Daily
Telegraph” quotes immigrants
into Israel who spent the war
years in Russia and are familiar
with Russian tactics as predict-
ing that the 2\ million Iron Cur-
tain Jews are not to be killed
after the Nazi pattern, but may
be dealt with after the manner
of the pro-German Crimean
Tartars, of whom li million
were dispersed by the Soviets all
over the Siberian forced-labor
camps. Their communal life
was summarily ended.
Turkish Forces. —From the
American point of view (reports
a London “Daily Telegraph”
correspondent), few countries
have yielded a better return than
Turkey. Apart from the Turks’
undoubted will to resist and their
traditional doggedness as fighters,
the last three or four years have
shown an all-round improvement
in the quality of the Turkish
armed forces, which are now
better equipped and better
trained than ever before.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Why Blame the Schools?
I weary of hearing our schools blamed
for juvenile delinquency. Even the critics
themselves have not been able to agree
as to what aspect of the education system
is to blame. Men like the London
magistrate (B. 18/3/’53) say it is the freer
schools, while psychiatrists and “re-
formers” declare that the system is not
modern enough.
A boy spends only a small part of his
waking hours at school. These amount
to 5i hours in the schoolroom and U
hour in the playground. That is a total
of 321 hours out of 105 hours per week
for 43 weeks a year. During most of
those 5i hours in the school the boy is
kept too busy learning his three “R’s”
to have much time to organise a little
delinquency.
The rest of the time is spent under the
control of the home, and here it is where
most delinquents are made. At the top
of the list comes the broken home.
Donald McLean pointed out in The
Bulletin some time ago that a broken
home was behind each of six cases of
delinquency that he investigated.
Only those whose work takes them there
realise just how many broken homes
are found in cities. A glance at the
divorce-notices each day will give a small
indication, but, better still, talk to any
child-welfare officer for half an hour.
Lack of home-training and control is
found where both mother and father are
working. The boy is left to himself each
afternoon until the parents get home.
Then they are too tired or too preoccu-
pied to give the kid the attention and
companionship that he needs. A number,
of the delinquents who have come to my
notice have been starved of affection.
Often worse than the broken home is
the home that is heading towards break-
ing-point. The constant squabbling of the
parents soon teaches the child to play one
parent off against the other. He some-
times becomes the football to be kicked
between the two.
Lads of 14 are given too much free-
dom, certainly, but not in the schools.
In spite of the “modern” methods, there
is still something old-fashioned about
most schoolteachers. They still demand
obedience and still have the power to
enforce it. The large number of school-
age lads roaming the streets at night is
evidence of the looseness of home-control.
The two systems of education, the old
and the new, have each had their successes
and Kneir failures. Each has produced an
A.T.F. and each has produced an army of
spivs, shirkers,and blackmarketeers. The
successes can be found at all ages in every
walk of life, while the failures, whose
ages rangp from 17 to 70, can be seen in
any of her Majesty’s prisons. There
were juvenile delinquents 200 years ago.
There are delinquents who have never
been to school.
Forget the school as a cause of delin-
quency. Rather schools do their best to
counteract it. Delinquency is caused
firstly, though not frequently, by some
"I can't say that I'm too keen on this modern art.”
inherited kink in the child’s character, or,
more likely, by parents who are either
unable or unwilling to face up to the
responsibility of rearing children. — Rann
(N.S.W.).
The Heyerdahl Theory
“X.N.0.” is sadly astray (B. 4/3/’53)
when he says: “Give an investigator a
jawbone, a word or a potsherd and he
will cheerfully provide the physical
characteristics, social system and archi-
tecture of a whole nation.” Nowadays so
much evidence has been collected on the
“She's running late — we'll miss our connection at Albury."
subjects of anthropology, ethnology and
archaeology that nearly all the guesswork
was eliminated long ago.
There were some brilliant bits of de-
ductive work when these things were in
their infancy. Over • a century ago a
biologist was shown a large piece of bone
found in a New Zealand swamp. His
finding: “Part of the skeleton of a very
large flightless bird.” People like
“X.N.0.” scoffed —until the first moa
skeleton was assembled.
Pottery styles have been so minutely
studied and classified that they now
form an unerring index. Here’s how it
is used: The Zimbabwe ruins in South
Africa used to cause endless speculation.
Non-scientists gave their imaginations a
loose rein to account for the building of
those stone-walled towns. They must
date back to the, days of King Solomon!
Here was the Ophir from which he
obtained his gold!
Then a practical archaeologist got to
work. Under one of the walls, in ground
which hadn’t been disturbed since the
place was built, he found a fragment of
poreel ain-ware. A reference to the index
showed it to be Chinese-ware, of the type
brought to Ceylon by trading junks from
a.d. 600 onward. Bang went all the
romantic theories ; the ruins were com-
paratively modern. Subsequent excava-
tions proved it beyond all doubt.
We had a parallel in Australia. Tas-
mania used to be populated by a people
of negrito stock, differing in a marked
way from the aborigine* on the main-
land, and weird indeed were the theories
to account for how the Tasmanians got
there.
Ethnologists, however, gathered the
available evidence and then made a find-
ing. All over Australia, on the most
ancient of all aboriginal campsites, they
found stone tools similar to those made
by the Tasmanians. Colonies of negritos
are found today all the way from New
Guinea to the Philippines, The obvious
inference was that they had come down
the land-bridge from Asia in the last Ice
Age and had been Australia’s first human
population. On the mainland they had
been driven out or absorbed when the
present-day aborigines arrived. The
rising of the waters in Bass Strait made
Tasmania a sanctuary for them.
Then came proof. Norman Tindale
was studying some old photographs of
aborigines taken last century. One
showed a group of typical negritos. It
was labelled “North-west Australia,” but
that was obviously wrong, for the back-
ground showed rain-forest trees. Was
there any clue to where it had been
taken? There was. The natives were
grouped before a hut thatched with
banana-leaves, and the wild banana grows
in only one place in Australia —the
escarpment of the Atherton Tableland,
North Queensland.
Tindale went to Cairns, accompanied
by anthropologist Professor Birdsell, of
the University of California. On a re-
serve near Mount Molloy they found the
remnants of 12 tribes of negritos. A
subsequent study of mainland aborigines
showed strong traces of negrito just where
you would expect to find relics of an
original population—outlying corners
such as east Gippsland apd the extreme
south-west of W.A.
“X.N.0.” makes no attempt to explain
how, if the Polynesians came originally
from America, the existing 'colonies of
the race found their way to islands off
the coast of Sumatra or to Madagascar.
He is also well off the beam in saying
that Polynesian canoe-voyagers couldn’t
cross doldrum-belts. They had the
equivalent of an auxiliary engine in the
shape of 40 paddles and an equal number
of stalwart men and women to use them.
Anyone who has seen a big New Guinea
outrigger-canoe foaming along under
paddle-power will know that calm belts
could soon be crossed.
A few other facts to ponder: The only
big canoes made along the west coast of
North and South America were found in
British Columbia’. Even they were tiny
when compared with Polynesian ones,
and the two building styles are entirely
different, but Polynesian ocean-going
craft bear a striking resemblance to those
which vase-paintings show were used
around the Persian Gulf 3000 years ago.
The Peruvians made pottery. Where in
Polynesia has one single chip of this
most indestructible of all human artifacts
been found? Nowhere. Polynesian navi-
gation bears a strong resemblance to that
used by masters of Arab dhows until
quite recently. What American tribe
had it?
Here is the most significant fact of all:
the basic principle of science is the search
for truth. If Heyerdahl were right the
rest of the world’s anthropologists would
throw their life’s work overboard and
hail him as they did other great men of
the past who made most important dis-
coveries. As it is he stands in lonely
isolation. — H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
New States
“G.H.’s” argument against new States
(B. 4/3/’53) is absurd. New-Staters are
not opposed to secondary industries;
they want to see greater decentralisation
in this field, and believe that creation of
more States would help it. The new
Governments would seek to foster a wider
range of industries within their boun-
daries, as have the Governments of the
smaller or less populous existing States—
S.A., Westralia and Tasmania. Ports
now neglected would be developed.
Concentration of most of the secondary
industries of N.S.W. in the narrow
Sydney - Wollongong - Newcastle coastal
strip is undesirable on several grounds.
It is militarily perilous, and will be more
so as atomic weapons becpme more
deadly. It gives this small region far too
much political influence. The enormous
growth of Sydney is creating serious prob-
lems of transport and food-supply.
Australia would also gain some cul-
tural advantage from having many
moderate-sized cities instead of its pre-
sent handful of overgrown capitals. Con-
sider the effect, for instance, of half a
dozen medium-sized universities scattered
through N.S.W. instead of the one over-
crowded establishment in Sydney with an
annexe at Armidale.
The U.S.A., though comparable in size
to Australia, has many more States.
Nearly all were created when the U.S.A.
was far less populous and wealthy than
today; indeed, some are still but lightly-
peopled. It is the number and varied
character of the States that make the
U.S.A. Senate such an effective second
Chamber—“ The most impressive and
firmly-rooted second Chamber in the
world,” a leading English constitutional
authority once dubbed it. — Castlereagh
(N.S.W.). _____
Education
Professor Browne, who holds the chair
of education at Melbourne University, is
advocating the decentralisation of educa-
tion control. He suggests that cities like
Ballarat and Geelong should administer
their own education system, instead of
being controlled from Melbourne. He
says that under the present set-up there
is a tendency for “pupils to belong to
the Government instead of to the people.’
That is only an example of an evil which
besets our whole social system —a belief
that the people belong to the Government
instead of the Government to the people.
—C.Q. (Vic.).
Armaments
Britain’s inventors have certainly been
near the front in the armaments field for
centuries (B. 18/2/’53), but innate official
conservatism has frequently delayed the
adoption of their ideas.
Germany, or rather Prussia, was the
first into the breech-loading small-arms
field with the Prussian Needle Gun, intro-
duced in 1841 and used jwith consider-
able effect during the war of 1870. A
number of the Prussian weapons were
actually tested by the Enfield works soon
after their introduction, but no action
was then taken to change the British
soldiers’ arms to breech-loaders.
The French were not slow in follow-
ing the Prussian lead with the Chassepot
rifle, but Britain was years behind when
the Government finally decided, in 1864,
to call for inventors’ suggestions for con-
verting the muzzle-loading Enfield musket.
Five competitors submitted ideas. Each
had to provide a sample rifle and 1000
rounds of ammunition, and in the final
tests Snider’s converted musket won easily,
with ammunition designed by Colonel
Boxer of the Royal Laboratory, and was
officially adopted by the British Army.
The Turkish, Dutch, Russian, French
and Portuguese armies also used Sniders
method to convert their muzzle-loaders.
The official adoption of the Martini-
Henry five years later, in 1869, was also
the result of a competition which was
entered by British, American and Con-
tinental inventors. Although bolt-action
rifles were submitted they were considered
unsafe by the War Office, and Martinis
lever-action, in conjunction with Henry s
system of rifling, was approved. By that
time, however, the American Govern-
ment was already issuing large numbers
of the repeating Spencer carbine
(successful in the Civil War) to its troops,
and the writing was on the wall f° r
single-shot rifles as military weapons.
The position was everfed-up on the out-
break of the Great War, thanks to the
: Lee-Enfield. Lee, who invented the bolt
mechanism, was an American, and
rifle proved itself one of the most efficient
i magazine rifles ever designed.— Dick
. Turpin (N.S.W.).


Queensland Native Mounted Police
Clem Lack says, rightly, that Willie
Frazer never had authority to shoot
blacks at sight (B. 11/3/’53). But I’ve
heard quite a few old bushmen swaac
that they actually saw and read the
original document. “C.L.” also gives
many stories heard of how that “scourge
of God” slew ’em in mobs; I prefer the
broadcast version of Andrew Scott the
Second, who doubted if Willie ever shot
a blackfellow in his life.
Incidentally, Douglas-Douglas was not
“regimental.” He was Cmmander, R.N.,
and preferred to be addressed as “Com-
mander” rather than as “Inspector.”
The statement that there was “no
unanimity among early Queensland squat-
ters on the need of the N.M.P.” gets
nowhere. At the present time quite a
number of poddy-dodgers don’t approve
of the methods of the Queensland police.
“C.L.” cites the Leslie family and
how well they lived with the King Darby
tribe, who, more than once, warned them
of a threatened attack by. the Macintyre
River blacks. What made the Macintyre
blacks wish to attack Leslie? How did
he protect himself against their raids?
Did he rely on himself or did he call in
the N.M.P. and later thus give old maids
of both sexes the opportunity to term the
police murderers?
How does “C.L.” account for the
murder of the Wills family in the Cullin-
la-ringo massacre of ’6l? I knew that
country well about 40 years later. Many
men were contemporaries of that event.
They were unanimous that the Willses
demanded kindness to the blacks. No
firearms were allowed, a man must not
speak roughly to one and they were given
the freedom of the camp. What prompted
that massacre? Was it revenge of an
outraged gin or just the lust for slaughter?
The evidence of Archie Meston {The
Sacred Ibis ) can be discounted as biased.
He was a disappointed man. Any dis-
approval he had of the N.M.P. was
returned, with interest, by quite a number
of the officers of the corps.
Clem Lack almost infers the N.M.P.
made the laws. They were paid to uphold
the law. They did as they were told to
do. They protected early settlers ; they
made the country safe for settlers to
follow them; they did their duty.—
Henry G. Lamond (Q.).
School Cadets
There is a loss of potential recruits for
the C.M.F. among the school-cadets who
leave school between 15 and 16. The
high-school and G.P.S. boys are not con-
cerned, as they are near the national-
training age when they leave, but
secondary technical and commercial
students in Sydney have at least a two-
year gap between leaving school and
entry into the C.M.F.
Technical schools, which only go as
far as the Intermediate Certificate, pro-
vide a large proportion of cadets. The
boys join because they are keen, but when
“Now, when did I come here—was it Wednesday
or Thursday ?”
they have, say, become under-officers or
gained n.c.o.’s stripes, they have to give
up because their school course is finished.
The voluntary aspect of the cadet sys-
tem is important. The cadet receives no
privileges in the school, except that he
cannot be detained on training after-
noons, such punishment generally being
postpor»3d to a free afternoon. His train-
ing, one hour a week, is done after school.
and n.c.o.s and bandsmen spend a lot
more of their own time at training.
Most C.M.F. regiments have what are
called regimental cadets. Boys leaving
school can join these and continue their
training until old enough to be absorbed
into the regiment. Unfortunately the
parades are held at night, which rules out
many boys; most technical-school cadets
become apprentices and take .trade
courses, and thus very few of them have
much chance of becoming a regimental
cadet.
The defence forces cannot afford to
lose these boys. As the boys themselves
cannot meet the Army in the matter of
parade-times, it is up to the Army to re-
organise its own times. It could surely
put on special parades at a time appren-
tices could attend. In addition, it should
make more efforts to publicise the regi-
mental cadets among the school units.
Many school-cadets do not know that
they can carry on their training after
leaving school. — Wackford (N.S.W.).
Lincoln and McClellan
“Ek Dum,” in his review of Lincoln
and his Generals (B. 11/3/’53), rightly
rejects the notion that McClellan was
either timid or a fool. There was no
question about his personal bravery,
which was proved in the Mexican War,
and the man who had studied the cam-
paigns in the Crimea and written a
Manual on the Art of War created the
superb army of the Potomac, the largest
and best-equipped up to that time in the
history of the western world. Lee never
had any doubt - about McClellan’s
capacity. In after years he said that
McClellan was the best commander who
had ever opposed him.
Criticism of McClellan’s strategy may
be more justifiably based on the assump-
tion that he did not know how good was
the weapon he had forged or, alterna-
tively, did not know how to use it to the
best effect. His over-caution paralysed
repeated opportunities for crushing vic-
tories.
There is, for example, the enigma
of his six months’ delay before General
“Joe” Johnston’s entrenched camp at
Manassas. When Johnston, whom Grant
thought a better general than Lee, and
most deadly when he was retreating, with-
drew south, it was found that the
formidable batteries with which he had
bluffed McClellan were merely logs on
wheels painted to look like cannon.
McClellan was at all times in over-
whelming strength, but he allowed him-
self to be deluded by grossly exaggerated
reports from his intelligence, headed by
the famous Pinkerton, as to the strength
of the enemy. At a time when Lee had
little more than 80,000 men to oppose
McClellan’s 120,000, McClellan was
clamoring for another 50,000 to make
head against Lee’s “200,000.” He pushed
to within four miles of Richmond, and
the Confederate President and his Gov-
ernment were busy packing their port-
manteaux for a hasty evacuation. He
won every action of
the Seven Days’
Battles, and retreated
(after every one of
them.
Douglas South-
all Freeman, in his
Lee’s Lieutenants,
describes the appal-
lingly bad staff
work, blunders and
delays of the Con-
federate com-
manders at Malvern
Hill, where McClel-
lan’s perfectly served
batteries lined the
crest and repeated
charges of Confeder-
ate regiments were
mown down by
canister —“It was not
war, it was mass
murder.” The Con-
federates were ex-
hausted, disorganised
and beaten to a
frazzle, yet in the
night McClellan, to
the dismayed rage of
Kearny and other
divisional co m-
manders, retreated
to the shelter of his
gunboats on the
James River, destroy-
ing miles of railroad trains laden -with
munitions and supplies and leaving in
his wake thousands of abandoned rifles
and other equipment.
He was given a second chance to smash
Lee at Antietam, where he had twice as
many men in the field as the Con-
federates. Again he won a victory and
did not know it. Longstreet, one of Lee’s
corps commanders, recorded that the
Confederates were so badly crushed that
at the close of the day 10,000 fresh troops
could have come in and taken Lee’s
army and everything it had. But Me-
Clellan allowed Lee to escape across the
Potomac.
Until Lincoln discovered Grant, a stark
fighter who would hang on with a bull-
dog grip no matter how badly he was
mauled in the process, the Federal
generals regarded the Southern States as
“foreign,” and had the notion that the
proper strategy was to repel the enemy
from Federal territory—what Meade,
after Gettysburg, called “driving the
invaders from our soil”—whereas Lin-
coin’s strategy, and the only sound
strategy, was to destroy him.
There is plenty of evidence that Lin-
“Not now , dear —later!”
coin interfered with his generals less than
did Jefferson Davis and the incompetent
Bragg at Richmond. He gave “Little
Mac” a fairly free hand, met his con-
stant demands for more troops as best
he could, although it was “like shovelling
fleas in a barnyard.”
The point on which he was rightly
inflexible was that Washington should be
protected and not denuded of troops.
For almost the whole war Washington
was always in greater peril from sudden
raid and capture than Richmond, which
was defended by miles of elaborate
trenches and fortifications as well as the
natural barrier of the extensive swamps
of the Chickahominy. Lincoln and Davis
realised, if McClellan did not, that cap-
ture of the Federal capital meant Con-
federate victory and the end of the
blockade, with full recognition of the
new American nation by Britain and
France.
Stonewall Jackson’s Shenandoah Valley
campaign, in which his “foot cavalry”
defeated three armies in detail, was a
serious threat to Washington. as
late as 1864, when the Confederacy was
already tottering to ruin, Early’s grey-and-
butternpt battalions penetrated to the
suburbs of Washington and skirmished
with Federal troops. But for the fact that
Grant hurried two crack divisions of
veteran troops to the aid of the meagre
Washington garrison the Federal capital
would have fallen— Clem Lack (Q.).
The Dora Dora Blacks
The “Dora Dora Blacks” were not
cornered on Fraser Island (B. 11/3/’53).
When they cleared out from Victoria in
April, 1891, Jackie and Willie or, to give
them their Fraser Island tribal-names,
Boolyal and Thunimmberie, travelled
through N. S. Wales across the border
into Queensland. Archie Meston related
many years afterwards that the blacks
arrived at his house in Brisbane about
nine o’clock one night. They had been
taken there by a friendly aboriginal of
the Barrang tribe who had met them at
the Logan River.
After hearing their version of their
escape, the killing of the Polish farmer
and their subsequent adventures, Meston
hid them in his stable overnight. Next
night, disguised, they were taken by
Meston to Brisbane Central Station and
put aboard a north-bound train. He
travelled with them to North Pine, where
he and the two blacks left the train.
Meston gave them careful instructions to
make their way down the coast and
follow it to Inskip Point, where they
would be able to find somebody to row
them over to Fraser Island. He warned
them not to go to the mainland in any
circumstances.
The blacks did not follow his advice.
As events turned out, had they gone to
Fraser Island they would scarcely have
escaped capture by Sergeant Thomas
King, who was scouring the coastal area
with a party of trackers as far north as
Lake Cootharaba, and Fraser Island had
been searched from end to end. They
kept well away from the island.
Months afterwards Thunimmberie was
captured, after a desperate struggle, near
Sandgate by King and blacktrackers,
but Boolyal continued to evade the police
for more than a year. Making his way
up the coast on foot, he got as far as
Bloomsbury, near Mackay, in north
Queensland, where he obtained employ-
ment on a station as a stockman. He
worked there for 12 months without his
identity being suspected,
Meanwhile Sergeant King had worked
his way to the Mackay district. One day
he was told by R. Smith, owner of St.
Helen’s station, which adjoined the station
where Boolyal was employed, that an
aboriginal named Jacky Jacky was work-
ing on a station near by and fitted the
description of one of the Dora Dora
blacks.
King ran his quarry to earth. Boolyal
was unarmed and taken by surprise, but
he put up a terrific struggle, showing an
amazing strength. King was a powerful
man, over 6ft. tall, and broad with it,
and he was assisted by two other big
men, but their united strength was needed
to overcome this lOst. Fraser Island
native.
His resistance overborne, Boolyal sul-
lenly submitted to the handcuffs and
walked quietly beside King, who was on
horseback, holding one end of a rope,
the other end of which was secured to
the handcuffs around Boolyal’s wrists.
On the way to the lock-up the party
had to cross a creek. Boolyal, pleading
thirst, begged to be allowed to have a
drink at the creek. King stopped to allow
him to do so, and, while he was momen-
tarily off his guard, Boolyal sprang upon
him, dragging him off his horse, and ran
into the bush with the handcuffs still on
him. He was soon recaptured, and was
given no further opportunity of escaping.
In his official report King emphasised
the desperate fight each black had put
up before he could be subdued. Of
Thunimmberie he said: “He was as quick
as a flash of lightning; I never before
saw such a man. I would sooner have
one black than two whites helping me
in a fight.”
Boolyal was sentenced to life-imprison-
ment and Thunimmberie to 15 years.—
K. M. (Q.).
Poor Farmers
There is no doubt that the average
farmer is making a fairly good living, but
the incomes quoted by “Quaero” (B.
4/3/’53) are not as wonderful as he seems
to think. Take the man who “can milk
40 cows with a bit of help from the wife.
We clear £lOOO to £1200.”
That man would have at least £6OOO
capital invested in his farm, possibly
much more. At 5 per cent., interest on
capital represents £3OO ; what is left is
no more than a fair return for seven days’
work a week by a man and his wife.
Agreed, though, that we don’t want
any more rises for a while. Buyer-resist-
ance is becoming a real threat, particu-
larly to butter. If prices are below costs
of production we will have to bring costs
down somehow or have the product left
on our hands. We can do quite a bit
about it ourselves, but it would help if
some of the things we have to buy were
a bit cheaper—i.e., if everyone was as
keen on work as the average farmer.—
Heresone (Q.).


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
-feSr.rJ
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwail Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYS AGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE N ETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Control of Worms
“R. Ney”: Drenching isn’t
enough; control of worms in
sheep rests upon keeping up the
general health of the flock.
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture emphasises this in point-
ing out that, if sheep can be
prevented from picking up infec-
tive larvae from pastures, drench-
ing, while still important, then
becomes a subsidiary control
measure.
Perpetuation of infective
larvae, which develop from
eggs passed in droppings, is
favored by moist warm condi-
tions, particularly if associated
with dull weather. However,
under normal conditions, most
of these larvae die within three
or four weeks.
Thus sheep should be moved
each month to a paddock which
has been spelled for at least three
or four weeks. This is particu-
larly important after drenching.
It is useless to eliminate worms
from a sheep only to allow it to
pick up a heavy dose of larvae
from contaminated ground
during the next few days.
Smut in Wheat
“B. Cubbin”: Enough smutty
wheat came to silos in N.S.W.
last season to make it obvious
that the thing is getting out of
hand. George Nicholson (De-
partment of Agriculture) says
smut (bunt) is easily controlled
on these lines:
Wheat suspected of being in-
fected should not be kept for
seed, and wheat intended for
seed should be graded and
dusted with fungicidal dust.
Three principal dusts are copper,
mercurial compounds and hexa-
chlorbenzene - “H.C.8.” All
three give good control, and the
new H.C.B. has given very good
results.
Few farmers would consider
sowing ungraded wheat, and at
the time of grading it is usual to
apply the dust, which must be
done at the rate recommended
by the manufacturers. If seed
is inadequately dusted the
danger of infection is increased.
Once the disease is established
on a farm it is not easy to over-
come, as sheds, machines and
bags become contaminated.
Older wheatgrowers know the
characteristic smutting of wheat-
heads and the stink from the
bunt-balls. With the introduc-
tion of dry pickling or dusting
during the late ’2o’s, and the
cultivation of wheat varieties
having a higher resistance, the
disease ceased to be a major
importance. In fact, the stage
was reached when the occurrence
of bunt was very rare. Thus
many younger farmers are not
familiar with the disease.
Ball-smut should not be con-
fused with loose smut. Ball-
smut replaces the wheat grain
with a ball of smut, loose smut
does not contaminate sound
grain. It is spectacular, but
seldom causes any serious loss.
It cannot be controlled by a
fungicide.
Attack on the Dingo
“Outback”: At long last a
committee has been set up to
co-ordinate dingo - destruction
methods ip Australia. “The
Australian Advisory Committee
for the Destruction of Wild
Dogs” was arranged at an inter-
state conference in Brisbane.
Queensland is to be head-
quarters for 12 months.
J, Brebner, of Queensland
Lands Department, is chairman,
and P. L. Graham is secretary.
This Commonwealth-wide attack
on the dingo has long been
wanted, as there is such a
diversity of opinion, particularly
in Queensland, regarding the
efficacy of aerial baiting,
amount of bonus for scalps and
on methods generally.
The new body, fully represen-
tative of all States and the
Commonwealth, will seek official
recognition as top authority, and
other bodies, such as the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council,
will be asked to seek the com-
mittee’s advice on all matters
affecting dingo-destruction.
The conference unanimously
favored a uniform bonus in all
States and the Northern Terri-
tory. It considered an increase
in the present bonus of £1 per
scalp unwarranted, as scalp-
bonuses would never rid the
country of the dingo, though a
necessary adjunct to other
methods of destruction. It was
the unanimous opinion of dele-
gates that the most effective
method of dealing with the dingo
was the construction of barrier-
fences in sheep areas and
poisoning outside those areas.
Apple-pollination
“C.J.”: Thanks to pollination
by bees, the crop of a 10-acre
apple-orchard outside Donny-
brook (W.A.) showed an in-
crease of 1100 cases within a
year. Part of 100 acres taken
over by J. H. Dawson three years
ago, the trees have good soil
and rainfall and are surrounded
by heavily-timbered country.
Dawson found the orchard,
then about 10 years old, starved
for attention. Heavy pruning
and manuring brought forth a
crop of 450 cases in the first sea-
son ; improved condition of the
trees doubled the second crop.
Struck by the absence of bees,
Dawson discovered that local
orchardists were depending on
wind-pollination satisfactory
for mixed fruit only. A letter to
the Farmers’ Union resulted in a
beekeeper, Rev;' 1 Cunningham, of
Dardanup, placing two of his
hives among the adjacent timber
as blossoming started. Work of
the bees brought the harvest up
to 2000 cases.
As Dawson saw it, success was
mitigated by the possibility that
spraying of the trees with arsen-
ate-of-lead or D.D.T. to combat
looper-caterpillar or spring-
beetles would be fatal to the
bees.
The opinion of R. S. Coleman,
W.A. Government Agriculturist, .
is that, spraying not being needed
when the blossom is open, there’s
little danger of killing the bees.
Greatest harm might occur, he
said, from pre-blossom-burst
sprays, which, falling on to the
flowers of the cover-crop be-
neath the trees, would poison
the bees working there. To over-
come this danger, spraying at
petal-fall rather than at blossom-
burst is recommended. The
“Why do I love y', Martha? ’Cos y' make th' best
plum-duff in th ’ district, that's why.”
bees’ job then being finished, the
hives can be moved away from
danger of the spray.
As bees have a habit of find-
ing a flow to their own liking
and ignoring the crop to be pol-
linated, hives should not be
moved into or close to the
orchard until pollination is
actually needed.
Clean-up Time
“Relwof”: Towards the end
of March qnd in early April
the last broods of summer pests,
such as harlequin and green
vegetable-bugs, red-spider and
various aphis, will be laying the
eggs which reproduce in the
following season. Some growers
fail to give sufficient attention
to these pests at this time of the
year. The result is swarms of
voracious grubs and caterpillars
the following spring.
Spraying or dusting should
continue where any live insects
are seen, whether on producing
or finished crops. As an addi-
tional safeguard, spray near-by
weed-growth. ITie E. 605 sprays
and dusts still give good results
against the summer invasions of
pests. A 2oz. bottle makes 40
gallons of spray, as against Boz.
for the same quantity of nico-
tine-sulphate spray. The dilution
for small quantities is two tea-
spoonfuls to 3gal., or 10 drops
to the quart. It’s fairly toxic, so
don’t apply E. 605 to vegetables
later than a week or ten days
before use.
The prompt removal of
disease-ridden plants and their
immediate burning can prevent
a carryover. Another pre-
caution is to note the position
of any affected crop and refrain
. from planting this area with the
same species next season.
Non-poisonous Spray
“C.S.”: Development of a
successful non-poisonous spray
which will kill eggs of red-spider
and red-mite has been announced
by the Taubmans people. The
formulation, Elimite, is available
for use on apple-, pear-, quince-.
peach-, plum- and other fruit-
trees during the next growing
season.
Sprays formerly used were
deadly poisonous to humans,
thus proving a constant hazard
to spray-operators. Elimite is
the first effective formulation to
penetrate through leaves to kill
eggs on the other side. A unique
feature is that it kills the eggs
laid by the adult female during
the summer rather than the
insect itself. Thus the eggs never
hatch.
Although tests on the point are
not yet completed, it is known
that Elimite has a residual effect
of up to two months. Many
compounds were laboratory-
tested over a period of several
years before Elimite was
selected. Recent tests in Tas-
mania, Victoria and the Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation Area and
Bathurst (N.S.W.) proved its
worth.
Supplied to growers in a 40-
per-cent. emulsion, a gallon will
make 800 gallons of made-up
spray, enough to spray approxi-
mately 200 to 400 trees.
Care of a Doe
“Toggenburg”: If a milch-
goat is not giving the quantity
of milk which could be expected
she probably requires changed
handling.
Where she is tethered by day
and shedded at night, on hot
days bring her into the shed at
about 10.30 a.m., giving her
enough feed to replace the food
she will miss in the paddock. A
mixture of chaff, bran, crushed
oats and linseed-meal is a sound
diet. A generous supply of
lucerne night and morning will
also help increase lactation.
Watering is best done by hand
to see that the doe is taking
sufficient fluid to produce milk.
Four waterings a day, at least,
are necessary in hot weather,
with three on cooler days. After
milking is an excellent time to
superintend the drinking. It
should be remembered that
warm water gives much better
results than cold. This is not
pandering to the fad of a spoilt
thoroughbred but sound advice.
If there is any spare milk give
it back to the doe. Animals
produce better and improve
greatly in health and appearance
if fed with milk.
It is useless to expect a poor
animal to give any great quantity
of milk. But even a grade ani-
mal of good constitution and an
adequate udder can be made to
produce well if care is taken of
both her and her diet. Properly
cared for, one doe will provide
enough milk and to spare for a
family of six people.
Playing at Dairying
“Cross”: A farming friend
from the Midlands (W.A.),
back from a holiday in
the south-west, said the dairy-
farmers he saw had only
one corner cleared —the rest was
bush. They had not done any
clearing since their early days.
Confirmation came a few days
later when Professor Underwood
lectured before the Institute of
Agriculture—a subsidiary of
W.A. University. Dairyfarms
surveyed by the institute
were, more than 50 per cent,
of them, undeveloped, with
too few acres of sown pastures
and too few cows. They needed
more and more acres of
Wimmera - grass and clover.
They needed more cows.
Yet dairy advisers have been
exhorting such feeble enterprises
to get a better bull, to conserve
hay and silage and to feed a
phosphate lick. All very well in
their way, but hopeless for a
dairy that has no economic
future, or so says the prof.
Land Tenure and Production
“Archaps”: Professor T- K.
Ewer, Dean of the Faculty of
Veterinary Science in Queens-
land University, says he believes
that, while some individuals and
companies had convinced them-
selves that existing land-tenure
laws (in Queensland) absolved
them from fully developing their
land, others were farseeing
enough to acknowledge a deeper
responsibility to do their best
to increase production, whatever
the uncertainty of the future.
Professor Ewer, dealing with
political obstacles to animal-
production, said a much more
unforgivable conflict might arise
between one Government instru-
mentality and another, or be-
tween the State Department of
Agriculture and Stock and the


SEE THE NEW
“HUFF”BALE LOADER
m
■ •
m
' £
m
mm
m
m
At the SYDNEY SHOW
Demonstrations daily at Anthony Hordern’s
AGRICULTURAL Section
Further Particulars
WM. HAUGHTON & CO., LTD.
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney. BU 5754
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes. Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870, After Hours, BJ 1957.
_ SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
" ETC.
df
sd
f
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be. v
Nu
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator,Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectris
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND : Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, RaSles Place.
NO GERMS
NO ODOURS
NO
EMPTYING
NO FLIES
THE ALL-POWERFUL
NOW AVAILABLE WITH
MATCHING EQUIPMENT
spring or D,sc H 4it*ow at*
RIGID TYNE 2~V,av TUc "MENT .
7r furrow io " ATTAcH^ vAn
m - ** nouZ ZT"
*"* '*■ fLOUO A H CHM
ALL hydraulic lift
<Y>
f
i
1
mm
mm
m
i.
> ' ''(V <li* '' ’'
• ■.; : .-;v,-.v.-' ; . : :-
Now . . . everything you need for increasing production
The versatile Model “B” with its
versatile power is at present doing
a giant-sized job on thousands of
Australian farms and has all the
outstanding features you need to
tackle the tough jobs on your
property.
Now the Model “B” Tractor is
available with the matching equip-
ment that will further increase the
efficiency of your holding. For
further details consult your local
distributor.
AC
CHALMERS
K.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush. VICTORIA:
w C Co ’ l>ty ' Lt ' l- ’ Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John Shearer & Sons Ltd., Kilkenny.
VV. AUST.: Westralian Farmers Co-operative Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering
Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane. TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
11/83.36
C.5.1.R.0., or between one of
those and the University. This
would be unforgivable because
the main spheres of action of
each were quite different.
Regarding the need for the
University to undertake funda-
mental research. Professor Ewer
said students would not be
thoroughly trained and intel-
lectually alert and keen if, dur-
ing their undergraduate life, they
had not been in contact with
instructors engaged in research
at the borders of discovery.
He added that, while they were
glad to welcome students from
Asian countries, it had been
found that the basic education of
some of them was not sufficient
to enable them to undertake the
post-graduate work they were
supposed to do. He urged every-
one concerned to divest him-
self of wasteful customs and
face new discoveries fairly and
with courage. The need for the
producer to be well-educated and
technically well-informed was
increasingly, though all too
slowly, being acknowledged.
Sub.-clover
“My”: Sub.-clover is adapted
to a wide range of soils in Vic-
toria. On sandy country after
autumn rains it germinates
readily and grows rapidly, pro-
viding feed well into the winter.
Loams are even better, the plant
burying its burrs freely in the
friable soil, readily re-establishing
itself in the following year.
Growth is slower on clay loams
and clays, the tightness of such
soils retarding burial of the
burrs.
Three main rules for suc-
cessful establishment of sub.-
clover are: (1) Cultivate the soil
thoroughly to make a fine, firm
seedbed, (2) apply super, at 901 b.
per acre, (3) use “certified” seed.
A rate of 21b. to 31b. of seed
will be sufficient where sown
with grass mixtures, or alone
with super, on a native pasture.
But if a complete cover of sub.
is desired in the first spring, 101 b.
to 121 b. of seed per acre will be
needed. When sowing clover
with perennial rye-grass, do not
increase the grass-seeding above
121 b. per acre or the legume will
be suppressed.
Onions
“My”: To get onions all the
year round plant a succession of
seasonal sorts. In Victoria sow
seed of the early varieties White
Queen, Flat White and Silverskin
in March. These will provide
green onions from August and
mature onions in October and
November, but they have a short
storage life.
Sow seed of Early or Brighton
Globe and Odorless in Aprii-
May for early December onions.
In May put in Brown Globe
seed, and Australian Brown and
White Imperial in June and
July.
These later varieties, if
properly matured, will keep
until the early whites are ready
in the following season, and
should comprise the largest
planting. A few shallots, potato
and tree-onions planted May to
July will provide for in-between
periods.
A Hay-loader
“Awn”: A new machine to
N. S. Wales, the Huff bale-
loader, is on show in the agri-
cultural section of the Hordern
Pavilion at the current Sydney
Show. An elevator driven by a
built-in motor, it can handle
2cwt bales of hay to a great
height, is balanced like a push-
cart on rubber wheels and can
be moved about easily. The
machine is invading N. S. Wales
after conquering a lot of the
Victorian hay country.
Hints for the Farm
“J.J.A.”; A sudden change
from wheat to oats will throw
poultry into an immediate moult.
The change can be made gradu-
ally, preferably during the moult,
to avoid loss of production.
Extra lucerne should be fed to
the fowls to balance the diet,
for oats are very rich in hydro-
carbons. Oats are good for fat-
tening, better than wheat, and
are universally used in the Ork-
neys, the egg-factory of Britain.
“Konanda”: When tethering
an animal to a large native shrub
which provides good shade, tie
the chain to a stout limb. If the
chain is tied round the trunk
the tree will be ringbarked.
“Rooster”: Deaths among
sheep due to stinkwort poison-
ing is not caused by the plant it-
self, but by the irritation of the
stomach-lining and intestines by
the tiny hairs covering the
flowers. Actually there is no
poisonous substance, although
the minute internal punctures
may absorb toxic-producing
organisms such as those of
entero-toxaemia. The safest pro-
cedure obviously is to eliminate
the weed or prevent sheep and
lambs from grazing it.
“Hux”: To arrive at an
accurate estimate as to how much
honey the bees will need to see
them over winter and early
spring allow 51b. for every comb
or a minimum of 451 b. per hive.
Hives may be wintered in two
stories. Don’t take it for granted
that the bees have sufficient
stores just because the honey in
the two brood chambers is left
undisturbed. Prolific queens may
keep the brood-nest so full of
brood that there’s only room for
honey at the top of the frames,
“Rooster”; You can’t be too
careful —even of pet bulls. One
reared from birth by its owner,
and kept in a paddock, chain-
free, displayed bad temper the
first time it was chained; the
warning wasn’t heeded. It was
being led to water by the owner
when it gored him to death.
Never lead a bull anywhere by
yourself. A stick, attached
crosswise through the nose-ring,
with a chain at each end will
enable two persons to control
the animal, one from each side
of the head.
“Tea Tree”: Select only the
best tomatoes when keeping to
dry-out for seed. Tomato-seed
carries diseases. If disease has
been present buy fresh seed.
“M”: Anaemia, an iron-
deficiency disease, common in
piglets reared on concrete
floors, can be averted by plac-
ing a sod of clean earth in the
pens daily.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The weather should be fine for Easter but the rest of
April may be wet. Recent rains are very remarkable, as
they seem to repeat a similar outstanding storm recurring
from the year 1788. This year gives the third confirmation
of the repeat under the Grand Cycle of 165 years, ruled
by the magnetic field of the outermost gVeat planet,
Neptune.
The situation in West Australia is also intriguing, as
there is now going on a possible repetition of a great
storm of 1917 on the Bruckner (or Crohamhurst) Cycle.


back alongside tor goods and he has shored
up the decks forward and aft and built
up brick chimneys on board and has
deck and has raised a good kitchen there
and rooms overhead E for the people’s
sleeping places. A dog keeps a very good
look-ou, on board.
On his subsequent New Zealand
journey Markham continued his diary,
and if it as good as this brief Tasmanian
survey it should be worth reprinting on
the other side of the Tasman. It is
in the Mitchell.
Along with Markham’s journal Mr.
von Stieglitz prints half a dozen articles
on Governor Arthur, Lieut. Jeffreys, etc.;
more-or-less routine historical dredgings
but interesting to those unacquainted with
the material. They have been broadcast
by the A.B.C. The freshest of them is
a reconstruction by Mi-. vort Sheglttz of
the memories of a pioneer, Mrs. Jemima
Irvine, who told him in his boyhood Of
her escapes from attacking blackfellows
and said the convicts “looked very clean
and orderly.... There has been a great
deal nf exaggeration about Port Arthur
cieai ot exaggeration about ron Artnur
and the way prisoners were treated there
but you have only to look at the numbers
ot them who came on and did well tor
themselves to realise that it was not- SO
bad after all.”
o
n il i i n
DOIIS -house Days
Son of a rich businessman with big
interests in the Far East, and of an
American, Christian Scientist, mother,
Maurice Denton Welch was born in
Shanghai in 1915. His mother died when
he was 11 He went tn crhonl at TTrVfielrl
tie was 11. ±le went to school at UCKiield
and then Repton, from which he ran
away at 16. He Studied art at the Gold-
smith School until, at the age of 20,
a woman-motorist knocked him off his
bicycle, irreparably injuring his spine,
Other troubles set in ; and until his death
in 1948 he was a semi-invalid ; well
enough one day, very ill in bed the next.
The accident intensified his interest in
art; he began to write. An auto-
biography, Maiden Voyage (Routledge,
1943) was followed bv In Youth ll
Pleasure (Routledge, 1945) and a collec-
tion of short-stories, Brave and Cruel
(Hamish Hamilton. 1948). Two post-
humous books were published by Leh-
maim, A Voice Through a Cloud in 1950
and A Last Sheaf in 1951. His short
literary career attracted a great deal of
interest in England and America during
the recent wai , and those of us who
have not read his other books can find
plenty of reference to them in The
Denton Welch lourtmh orlitpH hv
Lfenton Welch Journals edited by
Jocelyn Brooke (Hamish Hamilton).
In these Journals, 1942-48, Welch
appears as the candid confessor of every-
thing his editor does not conceal with a
dash or a row of dots; he records the
daily doings in the various places in
the country where he sets up house, most
of the time under the attentive care of
a somewhat older and more physically
healthy young man; he describes the
country scenes of his bicycle- and motor-
rides, with special care for the appear-
ance of young men without their shirts ;
he remembers such incidents as the time
when an old boy of his school took him
into the forest, sat him on his knee, and
called him “dearest”; he speaks of the
progress, publishing and reception of his
books, and of people who write about-
them and what they say; and he gets
down whdt was said during his few en-
counters with prominent literary people.
Not a normal young man —and, be-
cause of his invalidism, much indulged.
As Herbert Read said to him in the
Reform Club:
“Now let’s talk about your book.”
I waited anxiously.
“Some people might call it precious,” he
said, pausing.
And Edith Sitwell, having him to lunch
at the Sesame Club:
“Now I think is the time for you to do
something violent and vulgar.”
The long account of this -meeting,
joined later by brother Osbert, is really
first-class; the description of Miss Sitwell
herself, for instance:
Then the tall figure dressed all in black,
black trilby, Spanish witch’s hat, black
cloak, black satin dress to the ankles and
two huge aquamarine rings. Wonderful
rings on powder-white hands, and face
so powder-pearly, nacreous white, almost
not to be believed, with the pinkened
mouth, the thin, delicate, swordlike nose '
and tender-curling nostrils. No hair, I can
remember no hair at first. The rings, the
glistening satin, and the kid-white skin.
The talk turned on a recent poetry-
reading by various poets in the presence
of Royalty; and Miss Sitwell said;
“Eliot reading The Waste Land is very
wonderful. You wouldn’t expect it to be
read with feeling and exuberance, would
you? It would be altogether too over-
powering. W. J. Turner went on and on
and on, until the chairman had to clap his
hand, and then we all clapped him so
much that he had to stop.”
I asked if the princesses listened well.
“They sat very still in the front row, and
stared straight at one,” she answered. “The
Queen [1943] has a real interest in books.”
There is a detailed account of his reno-
vation of a mid-eighteenth-century dolls’-
house, which he stripped of its encrusted
nineteenth-century and Edwardian addi-
tions and decorations and restored to
something of its period charm. He has
all the interior-decor atom's patter and
gesture:—
First I tore away all the repulsive cur-
tains and carpets which had been nailed
on. The moths’ eggs were as thick as
fish-roe and the dust was like bat’s fur.
Gradually I emptied every room There
were only two bits of Georgian furniture
left. A charming dark mahogany Pem-
broke table with one flap, and two tapering
legs missing, and a little chest, also very
dark mahogany, but quite plain, with little
brass knobs. I forgot the little oak stool
for the kitchen. There was a tiny, perfect
old brass saucepan, two good little pewter
platters and some little Victorian dish-
covers. The rest was muck, except perhaps
for the curious little chair and chiffonier,
perhaps 1880-90. In the bedroom were
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THE CREST OF THE BROKEN WAVE
by
JAMES BARKE, 16 /- A let
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
two delightful cupboards, one on each side
of the mantel, and they had been fixed with
brutal brass hinges (the old leather ones
having perished).
He achieves real passion in his dis-
covery, in Tonbridge, of a Victorian
couch: —
But what really held my glance when I
looked nearer, was the covering of the
couch, the flat loose cushion and the round
tailored sausage one. They were all of
tomato soup red horsehair, dirtied, of
course, but remembering its life of eighty,
ninety, perhaps nearly a hundred years,
really in wonderful condition... .All
through tea I was thinking of the little
couch —how I would take off the few
remains of red braid and put on gold, or
green, or gold and green, or yellow
braid
He is kind to a “dumpy woman in
pale smoky peacock blue” whom he en-
counters carrying a suitcase in a lane;
she had been to London to spend her
husband’s leave with him in a hostel.
He had not arrived ; censorship had pre-
vented her ringing him up in camp; so
she had taken the train down to his
camp:
“I don’t know where I shall sleep tonight.
It’ll be men only at the camp. I expect I .
shall have to sleep in the fields or in the
wood. It doesn’t matter, anywhere will
do.”
Welch put her up for the night, and
encouraged her to eat.
She said, “God’s good, he sent you to
me!” but there was no real conviction.
In such encounters, we feel in the
presence of an artist, and can understand
(with reservations) the comparisons made
between Welch and D. H. Lawrence;
but the tangle of curious, flat, personal
relationships and quarrels-with-Eric is
as boring as the same kind of thing in
Lawrence’s letters.
The Real Foreign Legion
Stories of the Foreign Legion are
legion; but the advantage of Legionnaire,
Life with the Foreign Legion Cavalry
(Harrap) is that it is by Jacques Weygand,
son of the French general; young Jacques
went straight from military school at
Saumur into the Legion; and this book
is a story of his four years in it, in the
middle ’twenties. .
He spent some time in Sidi el Hant
in Tunisia ; then went with his squadron
to Bou-Denib in Morocco, where the
book comes to a climax in an account
of fighting near Ouzina in the Tafilalet
campaign, the mounted squadron leaving
its horses and going forward in trucks to
a bloody encounter on hills and among
rocks.
Told from the point of view of an
officer, and of an officer from a crack
academy at that, it presents a conflict
between the new lieutenant and an old
lieutenant risen from the ranks, bitter
and envious of academy-soldiers, cul-
minating in a duel.
About the most romantic thing in the
book is the story of the man with the
frightful scars on his chest. It was ex-
plained that a girl in the village had
promised him much —when the tattooing
celebrating other conquests faded from
his chest. This meant to her, never. But
the indomitable legionnaire had himself
strapped down while comrades poured
acid over one side of his chest. A few
days later they repeated the process with
the other side. Such is love.
There is also a magnificent cafd scene
in which legionnaires and officers take-on
the citizenry before an entertainment;
then the entertainment by a set of horrible
old chromos singing and dancing horribly
to an untunable piano—such as seek
romance in the life of the French Foreign
Legion must be prepared to find it in
la gloire rather than in I’amour.
The book is illustrated with photo-
graphs and maps, and prints the melody
of “Boudin,” the Legion’s marching-
song.
Spread Eagle : Aubrey Feist (Heine-
mann). This adventure-story for boys
is set in the Paris of last century, the
King deposed, and Louis Napoleon not
yet created Emperor. A young English-
man, visiting a French friend, is involved
in a Royalist plot to restore the mon-
archy, in which appears the comic villain,
Mr. Calamanco, brought forward from
a previous adventure-book; There is a
good disappearance from a sealed room,
and a first-rate thieves-kitchen on the
lie de Paris, some foot-fighting {la
mvate) and a horrible climax in which
the heroes are nailed in the hull of a
barge on the Seine, and the hull holed
under the waterline.
From R. G. Howarth:
In B. 11/3/’53 I notice you style me the
adjudicator of the “Baylebridge,” or, correc y,
Grace Leven Prize award. For the past-id
years I’ve had two fellow-judges (appointed
for as long as they like to continue), namely
Kenneth Slessor and H. M. Green.
BRINDABELLA
Once on a silver and green day, rich to remember,
When thick over sky and gully rolled winter s grey wave
And one lost magpie was' straying on Brindabelia
I heard the mountain talking in a tall green cave
Between the pillars of the trees and the moss below;
It made no sound but talked to itself in snow.
All the white words were falling through the timber
Down from the old grey thought to the flesh of rock
And some were of silence and patience, and spring after
winter,
Tidings for leaves to catch and roots to soak,
And most were of being the earth gnd floating in space
Alone with its weather through all the time there is.
Then it was, struck with wonder at this soliloquy.
The magpie lifting his beak by t i frozen fern
Sent out one ray of a carol, softened and silvery.
Strange through the trees as sunlight s pale return,
Then cocked his black head and listened, hunched from th*
cold, _
Watching that white whisper fill his green world.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 219
Across
I—Not1 —Not the same soothsayers to turn
the woman’s sage, or else. (9)
s—Restrain the pattern of draughts.
(5)
8 — Insect what hears judges’ tops.
(7)
9 Kitchen-hand whose work fol-
lows the egging to make an
alderman brown. (7)
10 — Criticise the hen roof expert.
(5-5)
11 — Pan a playwright? (3)
14 — Island measure. (4)
15 — Who mends a cloth ventilator?
(8)
18 — Groups of ten Saxon house-
holders send it back with unspeci-
fied objects. (8)
19 — Fish with a tailpiece in music. (4)
21 —Condition of a famous bond-
demanding lock having a fling?
(3)
23 —Press against the goat assault on
a device for ringing a bell. (4-6)
26 — Manhattan may be offered as an
alternative to this in one tram
backing. (7)
27 — Parents noticed a Red Sea port.
(7)
28 — Stick with yours-truly’s toothless
fish. (5)
29 Copper artists to study where a
nag lives. (9)
Down
1 — Among things forgotten, give
/shorts for a change. (10)
2 He uses plants to heal a boy with
an inclination. (9)
3 Adam and Eve did this and did
their blocks. (6, 4)
4 Latins secretly invest. (6)
5 Society suit. (4)
6 Ash from the end of the last
month. (5)
7 Asiatic whom cannibalistic Miss
Muffet might have been consum-
ing. (4)
9—Jack is to see the brainy sesqui-
century always. (6)
12 — A shocking result in sport puts
an officer on his head. (5, 5)
13— The emblem of the Prince of
Wales is thus swallowed after a
journey to the tavern. (10)
16— Submit Elia to drastic criticism
in this joint. (5, 4)
17 — Toe trouble in the first-class
guinea-pig puts Agnes out with
one. (6)
20—Malinger with an Asiatic wizard-
priest. (6)
22—Tyre king offers a greeting to a
wool-producer. (5)
24 — Sticks up the complacent. (4)
25 Why come after 54 for a poet.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 218


u
&
Hi"
wm
m
WA
m
/,
,
s»
mm
&
w
W
1
'ti/ith
BATTERIES
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
St., Alexandria.
Smith Sons & Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St M
Albury.
Victoria:
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED, Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY:—
Queensland:
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen fit Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre fit Motor Service, 6 I Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Boleover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser fit Co. Pty. Ltd., EUena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery fit Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker fit Co., Mackay.
South Australia:
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., 15 Ackland St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St., Perth.
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart; T. & G.
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin,
WHEN YOU THINK BATTERIES THINK CENTURY


Wm
y.
$.. , ' : ;,. #
i , ' I
•iipia
~v , v , .^
- '
| ■ **«&***>*
', \~mSSr ’ -v : - ~
: r ■
awrv* i®ss
We grew up together!
Work began on the famous Eiffel Tower in 1886 and in that same
year the foundations were laid for what was to be one of
the largest insurance companies in the Empire—the M.L.C.
Much as the monumental Eiffel Tower dominates the Paris scene , the
widespread activities of the M.L.C. make it a dominating, dynamic
force in our Australian community. It is a force for progress . , ,
a force that provides security to more than a million policy-holders
throughout the Commonwealth.
The
M. L C.
The Mutual Life
and
Citizens’ Assurance
Co. Ltd.
Established in 1886
MLI2/FP
