

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
IN PARIS WITH HUGH D. IVIcINTOSH
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3814
Wednesday, March 18, 1953
Price 9d.
_ ,r. * <svdnev NSW Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, •»
Seppelts
WENTWORTH WOODHOUSE IS BORH A MANSION AND A COLLEGE
T7GUR miles north of Rotherham in Yorkshire is Wentworth Woodlouse,
Sh^ P 3 "sT£ of .he ™re
hS'is'EreS te to a&iln with ‘he famous Egl
m
early days consisted of sixty-four persons, including an entertainer known
as “Tom Foole.”
The Earl of Strafford had many enemies, and. °treasoif
as Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland he was he was imprisoned
after a trial lasting eighteen days f Westminster Hal he was impns
1,1 lho“iv?d' ta seclusion and died
in 1695 without issue; with p ™ d ??, m.afjTO “ourinTth?”ighttemh
Wentworths smce the reign of Henry 111 (1216-1272).
century Wentworth was m the possession of the
whom it passed to the Earls FitzWilham. The present ca Mahel
wing of the great mansion, and the rest is occupied by the Lady Mahel
SSS ail 'Sf'IMS f':*■
da S ys U sh?e r p cattlfand deer the^xfe^^
Wentworth Woodhouse, but today these same acres are marred by ever-
encroaching opencast coal-mmmg operations.


lielirn « I.
McmceJoumgS
HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAIL- ———
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B.T6S) Age
The Red Page
EDMUND WILSON
In a merciless and exact little essay in
The Shores of Light (W. H. Allen),
Edmund Wilson warns the young writer
not to expect justice from the reviewers
and not to take any notice of their
criticisms if they do Happen to review
him, on the grounds that such critics may
be classified into the five unpromising
categories;
1. People who want work college
graduates, indigent radicals, escaped debu-
tantes and wives, young boys who have
just bummed their way from the Coast,
personal friends of the editors in difficul-
ties.... 2. Literary columnists. The writer
of a newspaper literary column has to talk
about one or more books a day for five
or six days of the week. To go through
these books conscientiously and comment
upon them thoughtfully is a task beyond
human capacity... .3. People who want to
write about something else. Book-reviewing
is frequently exploited, especially by the
young, as a pretext for writing an essay
of one’s own on the subject dealt with
by the book or for neglecting the book
altogether and writing ah essay on some
other subject... .4. Reviewer experts. The
philosopher or the poet [engaged as an
expert] is likely to belong either to the
same school as the author or to some
opposing school, so that in either case the
review may be biased.... 5. Reviewer
critics. These are extremely rare.
Mr. Wilson himself is, of course, one
of the rarities. His book, subtitled “a
literary chronicle of the ’twenties and
thirties,” consists mainly of reviews re-
printed from various American maga-
zines, with a few personal reminiscences.
The reviews are conditioned by the neces-
sities of journalism: mostly short and
written for the moment when a book first
appears. Some, though still interesting as
first opinions, would call for revision in
the light of later works; but many are
of permanent validity, and all have a
rare lucidity of mind and an equally rare
(if fragile) politeness.
Always with the advance-guard, an
honorable and perilous position, Mr.
Wilson has performed an international
service in introducing American writers to
the world —and to America. We see him
in 1924 making “the first criticism of
Hemingway that appeared in print”—a
review of Three Stories and Ten Poems
in the “Dial”;
Mr. Hemingway’s poems are not par-
ticularly important, but his prose is of the
first distinction. He must be counted as
the only American writer but one—Mr.
Sherwood Anderson —who has felt the
genius of Gertrude Stein’s Three Lives and
has evidently been influenced by it.
As to Gertrude Stein herself, a very
controversial old lady (it is impossible
to think of her as ever having been
young), Mr. Wilson does not value her
for her obscurities and eccentricities,
saying plainly that these, like E. E.
Cummings’s punctuation and the obscuri-
ties of some other American poets, are
faults. He admires Miss Stein’s intervals
of lucidity in Three Lives, in the Auto-
biography of Alice B. Toklas and in a
work which has eluded the present re-
viewer, Things As They Are — : “a story
of the tangled relations of three Lesbian
American girls of the early nineteen-
hundreds, told with complete candor and
an astonishing lack of self-consciousness.”
Among the personal reminiscences in the
book, which include a long account of
the author’s relations with Edna St.
Vincent Millay, there is this vivid portrait
of Miss Stein;
This reviewer met Miss Stein only once,
but he received, in the course of that
interview, an agreeable first impression of
a quick and original intelligence dealing
readily from the surface of the mind with
the surfaces presented by life —the response
so direct and natural, the surfaces seen so
unconventionally, that one did not at first
feel anything wrong; but a chilling second
impression of (to resort to an overworked
metaphor) a great iceberg of megalomania
that lay beneath this surface and on which,
if one did not skirt around it, conversations
and personal relations might easily crash and
be wrecked. This iceberg—heavy and hard
as the stone that her name brings to mind —
must have been forming in her emotional
solitude, and it now held her two-thirds
submerged. I doubt whether the obscurity
that hid it—the function of which seems to
me quite different from that of Joyce and
Virginia Woolf—will interest future readers
as much as the limpidity of Things As
They Are.
Among the poetic discoveries, which
include a verse-play. Him, by E. E.
Cummings, compared in its looseness of
form and energy of spirit to Ibsen’s
Peer Gynt, there is this lovely lyric by
John Crowe Ransom:
Go and ask Robin to bring the girls over
To Sweetwater, said my Aunt; and that
was why
It was like a dream of ladies sweeping by
The willows, clouds, deep meadow-grass
and the river
Let them alone, dear Aunt, just for one
minute
Till I go fishing in the dark of my mind:
Where have 1 seen before, against the
wind,,
These bright virgins, robed and bare of
bonnet,
Flowing with music of their strange quick
tongue
And adventuring with delicate paces by the
stream —
Myself a child, old suddenly at the scream
From one of the white throats which it hid
among!
There is also, along with a criticism of
the “low blue flame” of T. S. Eliot’s
poetic religious-revival, an analysis of
Ezra Pound as a victim of his own ex-
patriation:
In spite of the parade of cultures and
pontifical pretences which have terrified the
more naive of the American intelligentsia
Ezra Pound is at heart a very boyish
fellow and an incurable provincial. He
seeks refuge in bawdiness, in obscurity, in
recondite erudition, in the most extravagant
of the modem movements, such as dadaism
and yorticism, but he can never slough
off his self-consciousness at having settled
in the Sacred Grove. “Look at me! ” he
says in effect to his compatriots at home.
“See how cultured and cosmopolitan I
have become since I left America.”
This may not be the last word on the
Canters, but it is a word of some weight.
There are gaps, however, in Mr. Wilson’s
appreciation of poetry. He speaks some-
what wearily of The Ring and the Book
as “a novel in verse” (a most misleading
term), manages to discuss Tennyson with-
out mentioning “Ulysses” and Edward
Arlington Robinson without drawing
attention to such captivating develop-
ments from Browning as “Mr. Flood,”
and, when rightly criticising the arti-
ficiality of the verse-speech in Maxwell
Anderson’s Winterset, seems quite con-
tent to let the poetic drama die out
altogether--“Is it true that it is really
needed?” From which one may deduce
a preference for the lyric, and a failure
(so far as this book indicates) to recognise
that poetry on the stage need hot neces-
sarily be as flat as Anderson’s but, as
in Christopher Fry at his best, can be
quite as natural as prose and incom-
parably more vivid. Without “the novel
in verse” and the poetic drama, major
poetry would cease to exist; a con-
summation hardly to be desired.
Some other parts of the book which,
for a different reason, do not appeal to
the present reviewer are the essays in
which Mr. Wilson discusses his adventures
in Marxism; which were, briefly, that
he went to Moscow in 1935 and tried
conscientiously to approve of some mildly
propagandist versions of The Pickwick
Papers and Romeo and Juliet, then subse-
quently found himself disconcerted to
learn that Meyerhold, for protesting
against the new policy of total propa-
ganda, “disappeared”; his theatre was
closed and his wife, an actress, was
found dead in her apartment with seven-
teen knife-wounds in her body. This
brief summary may make the political
chapters sound exciting; they certainly
have their place in an anatomy of the
intelligentsia in the ’twenties and ’thirties;
but actually, to pay Mr. Wilson a com-
pliment, they are as boring in what is
essentially a book of criticism as are
Coleridge’s metaphysics in Biographica
Literaria.
Nothing, on the other hand, could be
more welcome or more appropriate in a
book of criticism, than the ardor with
which Mr. Wilson (himself later to run
into bother with the Memoirs of Hecate
County) takes up the case of such banned
novels as Lady Chatterley’s Lover; the
faults of which, indeed, though aware
of them, he rather plays-down in his
admiration for Lawrence’s courage. Per-
haps his most telling remark in this con-
nection is of Poe: “Thus at a date
when ‘Edgar Poe’ has figured in Europe
for the last threequarters of a century as
a writer of the first importance, we in
America are sitill preoccupied—though
no longer in moral indignation—with his
bad reputation as a citizen.”
Writers discussed in the book, besides
those already mentioned, include Scott
Fitzgerald, Mencken, Henry James,
Lytton Strachey, Norman Douglas and
Byron.
Inns of Australia
Mr. Paul McGuire’s Inns of Australia
(Heinemann) is a disappointment, com-
prehensive as it is and filled with familiar
names. A writer needs a special tempera-
ment, a lifelong soaking in the proper
juices and a deep and variegated
familiarity with background history and
topography to do this kind of job success-
fully. And Mr. McGuire obviously has
not got this and cannot compensate for
it by great industry and application, the
product of which smells of the candle
rather than of a familiar and joyous
addiction to the mellow occupations con-
nected with his subject.
A learned disquisition on pristine Sydney
is insufficiently learned when the author
thinks the custom-house in the early days
lay south of the present post-office,
when he cannot name the host of one of
the most famous hostelries of its time, the
old Macquarie Inn at Windsor, and when
he shows that he is not aware that
licences when referred to meant spirit-
licences pure and simple unless otherwise
designated, our stout forefathers regard-
ing beer as something scarcely worthy of
a convivial throat.
The stern territorial division of pubs
in an attempt to cover the whole con-
tinent and the whole of Australian history
results in a thin spreading of material
in which every addict of healthy liquor
and ease will find huge gaps to be filled,
in spite of the fact that almost every
page is chock-full of catalogues of names,
some of them of little interest.
Where is Mrs. Maclurcan’s Queen’s at
Townsville with its Indian waiter in gor-
geous clobber?, the old-time North
Queenslander will ask. Where is Ma
Brown’s at Darwin? Where the Fox and
Hounds, opposite the Supreme Court in
Sydney, where in the twenties and thirties
of last century such pleasant and con-
vivial inquests used to be held? Where
the Berrima pub of the ’fifties, whose
lovely daughter fascinated a Governor?
Where the characters and strange liquors
that used to make life worth living in a
more leisurely age? And what can be
the experience of a writer who commits
himself to the statement that no other
hotel in the world “can have bed and
fed” such a variety of diplomatic missions
as the Hotel Canberra in Canberra?
Shades of the Hyde Park, London, the
Imperial at Tokyo, the Chateau Laurier
at Quebec and a dozen hotels in Paris
or any European capital ...
Mr. McGuire’s book is only a start
on the subject of the Australian pub. It
is extensive in its listing, lavish in its
colored and other illustrations, and
thoroughly ambitious, but it raises no
rosy glow in the heart of the reader with
a lifetime of bent-elbow exercise behind
him. He feels somewhat like a meat-
inspector viewing beef at its ultimate
stage of perfection and neatness rather
than like an enthusiastic cattleman look-
ing down on tossing horns, bright eyes
and glossy hides with the bloom on them.
Mr, McGuire makes an attractive enough
display, but he shows his wares dead.
M. H. E.
Love and Cookery
“To live again is to be again our-
selves,” says Sir Thomas Browne in his
treatise on man’s vainglorious strivings
for monumental immortality. And it is
suitable, and perhaps a real conquest of
oblivion, that Norman Douglas should
survive in a posthumous gift to the world
of a recipe-book of kitchen-aphrodisiacs;
Venus in the Kitchen, by Pilaff Bey,
edited by Norman Douglas, with an in-
troduction by Graham Greene (Heine-
mann); indeed, Mr. Greene thinks so,
too:
It is fitting, I think, that his last book
should be as unserious and shameless as
this collection of aphrodisiac recipes, to
dose a life in which he had enjoyed various
forms of love, left a dozen or so living
tokens here and there, and been more loved
himself than most men.
The nice-minded may decide that the
invocation of aphrodisiacs is an un-
worthy reflection upon the charms of the
beloved object; and the experience of
the more practical may well confirm
them in virtue: celery, oysters, prawns,
lobsters, are valueless except to such as
can experience physical exaltation through
faith. And he who would tie himself
to his chair before ingurgitating Mr.
Douglas’s “crayfish soup,” which he says
is “an approved aphrodisiac,” or his
“consomme viveur,” which he describes
as “very stimulating indeed” ; his “broad-
bean soup” (“highly recommended”),
“frogs’ legs” (“a noble aphrodisiac”),
“tonic wine” (“warmly recommended by
an aged friend”) or “cinnamon liqueur”
(“cinnamon was famed as an aphrodisiac
several centuries ago”) would be taking
a needless precaution.
Maybe there is something to be said
for “Skink, a reptile aphrodisiac”;
though whether or not African Or
, Arabian skinks may be found, mink in
its modern exterior treatment may be
considered in all cases superior; and
“marrow of leopard” cooked in goat’s
milk with abundant white pepper and
eaten on toast seems hardly worth the
trouble.
Indeed, as it is a crime to seek in love
anything other than the beloved object,
so it is a crime to seek in cookery any-
thing more than the dish itself: and no
one seems to have known better than
Douglas that a nice dish, in either sphere,
is its own justification; likely enough
he has added an aphrodisiac sauce to his
sauces in the spirit of the father who
told his sons there was gold in his pro-
perty, in order to encourage in them the
love of digging.
The book has about a hundred recipes
from soups to sweets and drinks; some
very simple and succulent; others highly
complicated and rich and rare, e.g.,
“Roti sans Pared”;
Take a large olive, stone it and stuff it
with paste made of anchovy, capers and oil.
Put the olive inside a trussed and honed
bec-figue (golden warbler). Put the bee-
figue inside a fat ortolan. Put the ortolan
inside a boned lark. Put the stuffed lark
inside a boned thrush. Put the thrush
inside a fat quail. Put the quail, wrapped
in vine-leaves, inside a boned lapwing.
Put the, etc [it goes on to plover,
partridge, woodcock, teal, guinea-fowl,
duck, fowl, pheasant, goose, turkey and
bustard],
Douglas says he got it from a cookery-
book by Raimbault, 1814, but considers
it would be difficult “to stuff a bigger
bird like the lapwing into a smaller one
like the plover.”
Homebrewers may be interested in a
recipe for the ancient “Hippogras,”
“Hydromel” made from honey, and a
vegetable-and-brandy drink called
“Hysterical Water.” There may even be
takers for “An After-Love Drink, highly
recommended by my friend Baron de
M ——” ; though an economical lover
may well consider that this is carrying
extravagance too far.
Comments
John J. Alderson: Will Ogilvie has
written in Scots (R.P. 25/2/’53). Almost
all the dialogue of The Whaup o’ the
Rede is in Scots, and it was this book,
unknown in Australia, that won Ogilvie
his fame as a Border Minstrel. The
poem “The Blades of Harden,” which
the Red Page mentioned a while ago as
appearing in a Scottish anthology, was
taken from The Whaup, but it was not
the best choice. I met Ogilvie just after
Williams, his publisher, had flown to
Scotland to arrange for the Saddle for a
Throne collection. Williams wanted a
complete collection, but Will Ogilvie
tried to —and in some cases did —keep
many poems out. Amongst those he
wanted to exclude, he told me, was, of
all poems, “Willanjie”! It was senti-
mental, he said. As for Burns, like all
Scots he can quote Bums better than a
parson quotes his Bible. I noticed Burns
and Swinburne prominent in his library
and a Bulletin on his table.
♦ * * *
“The Chalky”: The potted history of
the Penguin series (B. U/2/’53) contains
several errors. Chaucer’s Canterbury
Tales were not done into modern English
by De Rieu, but by Nevill Coghill, whose
rendering of several Tales for the 8.8. C.
Third Programme proved so popular that
he modernised the lot. E. V. Rieu (not
De Rieu) is the general editor of Pen-
guin’s most successful achievement, the
classics. He has translated Homer, both
Odyssey and Iliad, Virgil (the pastoral
poems) and, recently, the four Gospels.
The Odyssey had sold close on half-
a-million copies twelve months ago,
according to the March, 1952, “Books
to Come,” and it is still available.
I do not recollect that H. G.
Wells has been honored by the publica-
tion of 10 titles on one day. I may be
wrong, but certainly no book by Wells
is named in the latest Penguin stock-list
of titles in print. About 10 years passed
between the launching of Pelicans and
the simultaneous publication of ten titles
by one author. The Bulletin paragraph
seemed to imply a much shorter period.
Finally, the bound Penguins are surely
worthy of praise. Paper covers will not
stand constant handling, and many Pen-
guins have far more than ephemeral value
—Bindoff’s Tudor England has been set
as a university text-book in South Aus-
tralia. And now old Homer’s best-seller
can be bought in enduring binding for a
modest lls,


Anthony
IMorderas 9
has long
been famous
for
Sf
ml
m i
■■■■■ S ■ ,
Sbl
i
i*
* i
&m.
m
»
B
1
I
ii
K
iliilip
-
•;:S.
I far all our customers
in all timeSm for all time!
I
:
I
C
P
130 years ago we set ourselves a task ... to give more service to our customers than any other store m
Sydney. It wasn’t always easy, yet we’ve managed to give you the kind of service that counts, through
two catastrophic world wars, through the disaster of our fire in 1901. Not only is our staff instructed
to give you superb service at all times . . . our individual services, such as our Clothing Hospital, our
Branches of the Commonwealth Savings Bank and Post Office, our Delivery Service . . . turn shopping
into a pleasure. We can’t exactly say how many customer services you’ll find in our Store, as they
multiply each week. Our Clothing Hospital (unique in Sydney) was opened only four weeks ago. Yet
the amount of business it has done fully justifies our belief that if you serve your customers they’ll stay
with you. Apart from increasing the prestige of Anthony Horderns’, these services promote customer
goodwill; they’re an added inducement for you to shop in our Store. Not that these services are limited
to Store customers! Our customers in the country regularly send their furniture to us to be refurbished,
renovated. They have their furnishings made up by our experts. When building new homes they seek
advice on colour schemes, on the type of furniture best suited to country conditions. They know,
through experience, that they can depend on us. The big business organisations of Sydney shop in
our Store, too! We’ve equipped whole offices with furniture, flooring, draperies. So you see, there’s
no customer discrimination at Anthony Horderns’. We will give the best service to all our customers,
in all times, for all time!!
Here are just a few of our fatuous services:
Commonwealth Post Office on our Gnd. Fir.
Commonwealth Savings Bank Branch
2 Restaurants and 2 Buffets.
Rest Alcoves and Free Toilet Rooms.
Numerous Public Telephones on ail Floors.
Fleet of 11 Lifts to Fourth Floor.
Hiring out of Crockery, Glass, Cutlery.
Shoe Repairs, Orthopaedic Shoe Salon.
Optical Prescriptions and Repairs.
Clothing Hospital. Gnd. Fir., George St.
Dry Cleaning Section, George St. Floor.
Women's Suits man-tailored, George St.
Men's Leather Jackets Repaired, George St.
Ladies' Hosiery Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Umbrella Repairs. Pitt St., Ground Floor.
Racket, Sporting Repairs, Lower Gnd. Fir.
Trout Fishing Licences Renewed, Issued.
Watch and Clock Repairs, Pitt St. Floor.
Re-silvering of all Household Silverware.
Venetian and other Blinds Repaired.
Curtains, Blinds made to your order.
Home Advisory Bureau, Third Floor.
Lounge Suites repaired, reupholstered.
All furniture expertly repolished.
Wire Mattresses re-wired in our factory.
Furniture made to your own design.
Mirrors re-silvered, repaired.
Lino and Carpets laid in your home.
Electrical, Household Repairs. 2nd Floor.
I—,r
w
L //
SB!
£ TRUTH 1U ADVERT ISiUG'' .
inthimj Horderns
■SS!
. / ■ . 4 . . ;/ . ■. ■
’PHONE M 24 0 1, NIGHT
AND DAY. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G. P. 0., SYDNEY


The Modernist French Exhibition
AN EMETIC IN OIL-PAINT
By NORMAN LINDSAY
THE only puzzle about the exhibition
of Modernist French painting now
on the walls of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery is why the trustees
have elected to hold it at this date, when
its imbecilities have long since reached
satiation-point with any cultured response
to plastic art.
I saw the first Post-Impressionist exhi-
bition in London away back in the year
1911. Examples of the same crude
infantilities have been scattered broad-
cast ever since in prints and art-publica-
tions till the publishers of these inanities
have used up their public, and booksellers
are no longer stocking their products, as
nobody will buy them.
Instead, there are now coming from
the art-presses reproductions of the
world’s greatest paintings, and that in it-
self is the evidence that the cult of
Modernistic Primitivism is defunct. Be-
sides, the buffoons who inaugurated it
are now either dead or old men, and that,
again, spells finality to it, by the inevit-
able swing-over of one generation from
the plastic creed of the one that
preceded it.
Modernist art has never been an
aesthetic but a studio cultism, propaganded
by newspaper art-critics and the astute
art-dealers who capitalised the journa-
listic publicity to sell their wares to that
section of the moneyed public (mainly
rich Americans) who can be duped into
paying money for anything popularised
as a fashion-craze. Rich Americans with
taste have bought nothing but works
accredited by the highest standard of
connoisseurship, so that America has now
acquired some of the world’s greatest
masterpieces.
Modernistic art has always been
rejected by the one source of authoritative
opinion that can have validity, and that
is from painters who have already
achieved distinction on an established
tradition of sound painting, and from
the cultured art-buyers who have col-
lected their works. It can’t be repeated
too often that there can be no other
authoritative standard of values save this
exchange between artist and buyer, for
it is based on that unity between creation
and perception without which art could
not exist. Anyone who follows the resale
of pictures from notable collections will
see this process in action at any Aus-
tralian auction-room today. The works
by painters who have established
the tradition of sound painting in this
country continue to soar in value with
every resale. To my knowlede no pro-
duct of Modernistic art has ever found
a buyer there.
For all the feverish tub-thumping by a
few journalistic art-critics over the pre-
sent exhibition of Modernist French art,
that cult is as dead as mutton. I would
not have crossed the road to look at it
if I had not received a number of indig-
nant letters from people whose taste I
respect, and who are seriously concerned
for the dignity of art in this country. For
my part, a glance at the verbosities of
the newspaper art-critics in praise of the
exhibition was enough to assure me that
its exhibits were worthless; and, any-
way, I have long since lost any interest
in the Modernist revolt, even from the
one aspect that can be of interest, which
is its pathological reversion to a state of
infantilism. But I allowed myself to be
coerced into paying a visit to the Gallery.
And I was really staggered to find
again how incredibly bad the stuff was,
even from its own acclaimed slogan of
having discarded all standards of excel-
lence in painting. I did my best to find
some evidence that this insensate debauch
of splodging paint on canvas had any
genesis in mankind’s prolonged struggle
to develop the thumb which controls the
use of a tool; but could only find two
examples which showed some evidence
of craftsmanship. One was a still-life
with a certain harmonic quality by an
accent of black on a basis of red and
yellow, and the other a combination of
blues, greens and reds toned down to
give an effect of color-unity if viewed
from a distance. It need not be added
that any sense for form was lacking in
both exhibits. Finally, with some Reluct-
ance, I performed that exercise defined
in the studio idiom as putting my nose
into the paint to examine the quality of
its impasto. In the whole of that exhi-
bition there was no evidence that its
perpetrators knew that such a thing as an
impasto existed. Which is to say, revert-
ing from the plastic idiom to that which
uses words as its medium, the mental
level which had produced these exhibits
was hardly up to that of a child of eight,
and a backward child at that...
I must pause here to comment on the
one really exasperating aspect of the
whole Modernist revolt from standard
values in art, and that is not the drivelling
nature of its works, but the affirmation
of those works which has come from a
number of writers who are themselves
meticulous stylists in the metier of words.
But, passing them for the moment, it may
be well to dispose of the affirmation of
Modernistic art by the newspaper critics.
The function of the newspaper art-
critic is to attack all expressions of high
quality in art. Defined roughly, this
attack constitutes an
endurance-test o n
the artist to ignore it,
and his works to
survive it. It springs,
of course; from a
fermenting state of frustration by a con-
sciousness of inferiority forced on such
mentalities in the presence of any high
achievement in the arts.
I dare say it has always attended such
achievements in the pre-newspaper past,
but only since the beginning of last cen-
tury, with its sudden and widespread
production of newspapers and journals,
have we been able to watch its procedure
in action.
In poetry, Byron, Shelley, Keats,
Wordsworth and Browning have been
selected for its most vicious attacks. In
music, Beethoven and Wagner. In paint-
ing, Turner, Constable, Etty, Cotman,
de Windt-—and, in short, any painter who
showed evidence of high quality in his
works. I have gone to the trouble at
times of digging up such evidences of
journalistic spleen, and have discovered
that the painters on whom those critics
lavished adulation have never since their
day been heard of. And therein is the
doom of Modernistic art already consti-
tuted irrevocably.
The journalist attack continued
through the ’seventies and ’eighties on
the Impressionist movement, which was
headed by Degas, Manet and Monet, and
continued down to the ’nineties in the
fury aroused by Sargent’s portrait of
Madame Gautreau, which drove Sargent
out of Paris to settle in England. And
that was a good thing for England, for
Sargent may be accepted as the prime
stimulus to that fine group of painters
headed by Orpen, Lavery, Nicholson,
Munnings and John. These are the real
modern masters, and their works are
extreme from Modernism. And they,
also, were attacked by the art-critics, but
by an ingenious reversion of their normal
tactics....
It has generally been assumed that the
present-day art-critics were aware of the
ignominy that has since been bestowed
on their past colleagues who had attacked
the Impressionist movement, and that
they were not going to be caught out in
the same way over the Post-Impres-
sionists. That is not the case. Journa-
listic art-critics are not constituted to
act on an intellectual concept but on an
emotional compulsion. They are re-
cruited from the ranks of those literary
frustrates who have failed to achieve any
distinction as writers, so that they must
seek to rehabilitate a deboshed self-
esteem by resorting to the assassin’s
knife.
In Modernistic Art they found a
superb opportunity of wielding it on
serious values in art, not by the attack
direct, but the attack oblique. With one
glad howl of exultation the whole mob
of them set out to acclaim Mordernism
as ,anew evangel in plastic art. And
they are still tub-thumping the same stale
old theme in an arbitrary jargon invented
by the studio buffoons themselves.
For my part, I endorse the tactics of
the journalistic art-critics. A lie has no
existence, and their frenzied effort to
affirm non-existent values in art merely
exhausts itself in a vacuum. It may
muddle a certain section of the public,
but that is not the section of the public
which has any effect on the cultural
energy of a community. That is main-
tained by a very small nucleus of
sophisticated intellects, and the exchange
between creation and perception goes
calmly on without taking any notice of
journalistic splenetics or studio polemics.
But in dismissing any significance in
the journalistic attack on serious values
in art, I, for one artist striving to do
something within the gamut of those
values, and concerned for the dignity of
art itself, refuse to dismiss or condone
the dirty work done to our profession
by those writers I have already referred
to, who are not journalists but prose-
writers of distinction, and who have used
the status acquired by their works to
depreciate all that makes for distinction
in ours. Of those I select Osbert Sitwell
and Somerset Maugham, because both
are meticulous exponents of literary style.
And what literary style is to a writer,
the impasto of an oil-painting is to an
artist. Precisely what a writer under-
stands by a suavity
of sequence between
vowels and conson-
ants, by a nice
balance between the
short and the long
sentence to achieve lucidity or emphasise
a passage, by using the paragraph to pro-
long or shorten a period according to its
weight of subject-matter, and, most of
all, by seeking to find the precise word
which will convey the mental, emotional,
or visual image the writer wishes to
define.
All these things an artist seeks to
express by the use of thick or thin paint
to eliminate unessentials and to focus
attention on a salient passage, by con-
veying the modulations between shadow
and highlight in graduating brushwork
from a smooth layer of paint to one
where a loaded brush is used, by a gamut
of values dictated by the play of light
over surfaces and texture, and, most of
all, by seeking the precise brush-stroke
which will accent a form, finalise a tonal
sequence, and convey to the eye the
visual impact of a thing seen. Just as
Conrad exhausted synonyms to find the
exact word he needed, Sargent would
make repeated brush-strokes in the air
before committing to canvas the accent
he needed on a form, a texture, or the
crescendo of a light-passage. And this
problem of the impasto has been the
incessant preoccupation of all painters
who have achieved mastership in paint
from Da Vinci and Dtirer, who inaugur-
ated the Renaissance, to Orpen and
Sargent, who are the latest masters of
perfect stylism in the use of oil paint.
And that same preoccupation over a
plastic use of words has been the major
obsession of writers from Jeremy Taylor
to Somerset Maugham.
I pause at Maugham, because, of all
writers save Hazlitt, he has written the
most lucid and understanding essays on
style that I have read, and because he
once studied painting, and does know
good painting from bad. On that score
Osbert Sitwell can be dismissed. For
all his easy and graceful style as a
writer, I’ve never read a word of his that
indicates the slightest knowledge of style
in paint. From the start he has acclaimed
the whole lunatic output of Modernism
without any discrimination between one
studio clown or another, while he has
jeered at Sargent by taking an air of
tolerant derision to his painting, and has
crudely stigmatised Orpen as a “supreme
Irish carpenter and flashlight photo-
grapher,” for which impertinence future
annotators of belles lettres will administer
a well-deserved kick-in-the-pants to
Osbert, if his personal reminiscences en-
dure on the bookshelves—which is doubt-
ful.
But Maugham is seriously concerned
for the dignity of letters, and has returned
again and again to an analysis of style
in his essays, using as examples all
classic precedents of quality in writers,
from the translators of the Bible down
to Hazlitt. He is certainly reticent over
ascribing stylistic virtues to writers of his
own era, and in one of his novels makes
a slighting reference to Conrad. It is
because of his insistence that writers
must study classic precedents in good
style that his advocacy of Modernist
painting becomes so offensive. Take this
from his latest series of essays, “The
Vagrant Mood”:
The language of literature if it is to
avoid shapelessness and incoherence, must
be founded on, and determined by, the
standards of the period when English prose
attained the highest degree of perfection
of which it seems capable.
From which passage I turn to an essay
on beauty in plastic art and find he has
the immortal rind to write as follows:
Even Greek sculpture, owing to the
acquaintance we have now made with
Chinese and Negro art, has for artists
themselves lost its appeal. It is no longer
a source of inspiration. Its beauty is
dying We grow tired of something we
know too well and ask for something
new , , ,
So be damned to you, Mr. Maugham,
for a treacherous renegade even to your
own creed as a perfectionist in prose,
which is to say, perfection also in poetry’
music and painting. Allow me to trans-
late into your own metier of prose what
a Picasso is saying to you in paint.
Though there is not much profit to be
gained by trying to separate rubbish from
rubbish, I made a point of examining the
Picasso in the present exhibition carefully,
and observed that it was splodged in
with oil-color thinned-out to the con-
sistency of watercolor by turps, and
apparently applied to canvas by a wad of
cotton-wool. The imbecility of its
subject I pass, but what it was saying
to you, Mr. Maugham, was “Gug-gug-
gug-bub-bub,” which is the nearest I
can get to an infant trying to exercise
its vocal-chords in the cradle.
But enough of discussing these insensate
fooleries. I observed that the average
expression of the public inspecting them
was one of dazed incomprehension, with
a variation here and there to derision or
a just indignation at a fraud imposed
on the optic nerve, while the
Gallery attendants looked extremely
ashamed of themselves, as being forced
officially to sanction a function degrading
to their self-respect. For myself, I went
forth to quell a slight sensation of nausea
by having a look at the splendidly con-
trolled brushwork of Ramsay’s “Sisters,”
and to enjoy once again the staggering
achievement of Gruner’s “Spring Frosts”
and Streeton’s “Fire’s On.” They were
fortunately hanging side-by-side, so that
I could turn from the tender welling-up
of dawn light to the actinic brilliance
of midday sunlight; Pan’s hour. I
never saw those two superb works look
so lovely, for which, at least, I could
thank the offence my eyes had been
forced to endure in that Modernist in-
ferno. Casting memory back over the
galleries of Europe, England and America,
conviction assured me that those two
paintings are among the greatest land-
scapes this world possesses.
Before departing I had a look at the
other Gruners, and if any writer is in-
terested enough to study an example of
what I have been trying to define of style
in an oil impasto as used in Gruner’s
“Frosty Morning,” let him observe .how
the weighted brushwork in the almost-
colorless sky conveys the vibrant effect
of pure light, while a certain quivering
STORY
“Ancestor Washup”
By J. B. Blair
Terrifying disclosures when a school-
boy son begins tracing back his
ancestry.
One of next week’s Bulletin short
stories.
use of the brush into a rich impasto
suggests the shimmer of frost across the
surface of a field.
Once again we have the right to ask
why the trustees have squandered money
on this exhibition of rubbish which
merely confuses the public at large, dis-
gusts the minority of art-lovers with a
cultivated taste in paintings, and pleases
only a very small group of art students
infected with Modernism, when they have
the galleries of Europe and England at
their disposal for a loan exhibition of
genuine works of art. We had such ex-
hibitions in Will Ashton’s period as
curator of the Gallery, and vastly stimu-
lating they were, selected by Ashton’s
impeccable taste and knowledge of the
world’s art.
I can think only of one excuse for in-
flicting this exhibition on the public,
and that is to present it as an awful
example of the state of moral decadence
which reduced Europe to chaos. There
is no separating art from life. When a
people throw aside all reverence for
standards of value which have slowly
built up a civilised consciousness in man-
kind, it must revert to barbarism.
And in spite of itself Modernistic art
has given us one irrefutable value in rela-
tion to the very values it has sought to
destroy. If we accept, say, Rembrandt
as the apex of all that is greatest in
painting, then Picasso is the nadir of all
that is rotten. With the exhibition now
on the walls of the Gallery, painting has
reached its zero in worthlessness. It
cannot get lower.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 18, 1953
Vol 74—No. 3814
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
WILDER THAN LENIN
Those voters with chips on their shoulders who will be
gunning for the Menzies Government at the Senate
poll because it hasn’t reduced taxation, put value back
into the pound and at the same time kept inflation of
incomes going at the 1950 level should take a peep
behind the brimstone curtain which stands between the
“Labor” party and the truth.
So much has emerged about “Labor’s” real in-
tentions lately that it seems to have been forced to
resort to trickery. There is strong room for suspicion
that the exhibitions of internal differences which are
diverting Canberra just now are part of its stratagem.
Almost every day the House of Representatives sits
it is treated to what seems to be a display of rebellion
by Mr. Calwell and of concomitant resentment by Dr.
Evatt, his leader.
Either “Labor” is a body split to bits, in one of
which the discipline has broken down, or it is a party,
as its Press organs insist, which will “go united in
leadership and policy to the polls.” There are no other
alternatives. And acceptance of the second one calls
also for acceptance of the strong possibility that
“Labor” is exhibiting its ostensible divisions with its
tongue in its cheek, according to a tactical plan. Dr.
Evatt and his mild band of spell-binders campaign
for the moderate “Labor” and greedy swinging vote
with a suave line of visionary promises of reduced
taxation, lower prices and full employment in place
of the present alleged Tory hell in which Australians
are supposed to be living on the lip of disaster.
While all their assurances are being given and
their soft-soap distributed with a background of panic
which smacks of the campaigns which frighten parents
into having their children immunised against
diphtheria, Messrs. Arthur Calwell, Clyde Cameron,
Eddie Ward and Senator Donald Cameron, in com-
pany with some of the “Labor” party’s official organs,
are assuring their followers of the Left —the loafers and
the Communists and the parlor-pinks —that this isn’t
“Labor’s” policy at all, and that they can depend on
Dr. Evatt to be the very model of a Socialist dictator,
with all trappings, should he get into power.
As Mr. Calwell and others give oral expressions
to this viewpoint. Senator Sandford and Senator
Cameron give it printed permanency in the party’s
official organ. Mr. Calwell and Senator Cameron
are completely at one in their views. While
Dr. Evatt assures that bank-nationalisation is
dead, Mr. Calwell had not a word or a gesture
of repudiation or denial to offer when Mr. Holt quoted
him in Parliament the other day as saying in October,
1950, that “Labor’s” banking plans, as established 15y
the Banking Act of 1945, involved “a policy of expro-
priation at the expense of the private banks without
compensation,” and that with the Act’s help “the bank-
ing system will be nationalised without the necessity
to pay compensation,,. .by competition the Com-
monwealth Bank will force the private banks out of
existence.”
While all the leaders of “Labor” who come from
behind the curtain to expound their policy wherever
mug votes are to be beguiled execrate Mr. Fadden for
his high-taxation policy and shout for lower taxation,
Senator Donald Cameron, an ex-Minister of the
Curtin-Chifley Government, writes in the “Labor
Call,” official organ of the party in Victoria, that
“Labor’s task is to tax capital into submission.” He
says that money can be provided for the States and
public utilities:
This can be done only, first by the taxing of
capital or the imposing of a graduated capital-levy
in addition to taxing of incomes, secondly, strictly
enforced price-control, which would disallow aU
capital charges which have not been incurred and
which are included and collected by the arbitrary
Increasing of prices, and thirdly, but not least, by the
reduction down to the minimum and the abolition
ultimately of all indirect taxation.
Senator Sandford, an experienced spokesman of a
party which professes to be sober-minded and realistic,
advocates that, “when other sources fail, all State and
national projects, the adequate provision of educa-
tional and hospital facilities and full and proper pro-
vision of land-settlement for ex-servicemen and
others,” together with “the overall security of Aus-
tralia and Australians,” should be “financed through
the Commonwealth Bank at no cost other than
administrative charges”—in other words, by the issue
of paper money ad lib., a course which must lead to
wild inflation like that of Germany in the 1920’5,
That this is not merely an individual opinion but
squares with party view is shown by numerous refer-
ALL ABOARD!
ences in the “Labor Call,” of which a typical sample is
Senator Cameron’s assurance on February 22 that
“actually there is no shortage of money in Australia
or in any other country for that matter. It is simply
a medium of exchange, mostly paper money in these
days, which is controlled by Money Power for the
purpose of increasing profits and perpetuating the
existence of the capitalist system at the expense of the
workers.”
As for nationalisation, the “Labor Call” itself
gives an assurance that the decisions of the Adelaide
Federal “Labor” Conference “did not mean a change”
in A.L.P. policy. It declared that the Privy Council
decision on the Banks Act had produced a “form of
constitutional polio that threatens to paralyse Aus-
tralian constitutional development” until such time
as “Labor” carries out its policy of destroying the
States and achieving unification. It eagerly looks
forward to forcing Mr. Menzies to a double-dissolu-
tion before the end of the year through a Senate
deadlock, with a view to entering on the cure of this
disease by the restoration of a policy of nationalisation.
It may be sorry if it does and the Government
succeeds in bringing home the inwardness of “Labor’s”
policy as taught in its confidential seances with its
followers behind the curtain which hides the realities
of its intentions. Dr. Evatt may not be, like Mr. Lang,
“greater than Lenin”; but his party policy as
enunciated privately by his principal lieutenants is
certainly wilder than Lenin’s.
Spoils to the Losers
If there is an y tf uth in the old sa y in S * bat the Devil
looks after his own ’ then the S ‘ Wales “ Labor ”
Government can at least claim that in its treatment
of its defeated, rejected or merely superfluous Ministers
and friends it follows distinguished precedents. Latest
recipient of a plum from “Labor’s” Tree of Plenty is
F. J. Finnan, former Minister for Labor and Industry
and Prices; the plum, chairmanship of the Hunter
District Water Board at a salary of £2750 a year for
seven years. The only apparent justification for the
appointment seems to be that Finnan is out of a job,
and that this one will enable him to support himself
at somewhere around the scale to which he has been
accustomed during his years as a Minister.
Mr. Finnan is the third high-ranking “Labor”
man to be “chaired” in the 11 months of Mr. Cahill’s
Premiershin Last April when Mr. McGirr resigned
ccSUa
broke to bim tbe news that they had chosen him as
u . . Rricirr i „
new cbairman tbe Maritime Services Board at a
lary of £2812 a y®" (siac f . mcr ® a!
Xwo or three weeks later Oarull and Co. etppointeci
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, M among other
things, was president of the Federal A.L.F. to be
chairman of the Milk Board (salary £2362 since
increased to £2750). Before entering politics the Me-
Girr bad tr i ed b j s band at pharmacy and farming, but,
apart from an occasional trip on a Manly terry, there
was no evidence that he could bring any special quail-
fleations to his new post. Nor is there any strong
evidence to suggest that Mr. Ferguson, in the 40 years
immediately preceding his appointment, had imbibed
so much as a pint of milk. His long years of experi-
ence as a trade-union official may have been useful in
obtaining him the appointment, but they were not
necessarily a guarantee that he was the best man avail-
able for the job, any more than were his hobbies—
listed in Who’s Who in Australia as “shooting,
swimming, fishing,”
By the standards of these two appointments an
earlier one, that of Deputy-Premier J. M. Baddeley as
Director of N. S. Wales State Coalmines, was almost
beyond reproach. Baddeley had at least been a miner
and a Minister for Mines. That he was already several
years beyond the public-service retiring-age when he
began his seven-year term at £2500 a year is, of course,
a circumstance almost too trivial to mention —more
trivial, indeed, than the progress that has been made
by the State coalmines in the three years since his
appointment.
To Mr. Finnan the chair of the Hunter River
Water Board, though nothing to do with maritime
services, must seem very like “port after stormy seas.”
He entered Parliament as member for Hawkesbury in
1941 and held that seat until 1950. The redistribution
of that year, although generally beneficial to “Labor,”
made Hawkesbury very unsafe for the party, so Finnan
offered his services to the electors of Darlinghurst.
They responded, in a way. At least he won the seat,
after Communist preferences had been distributed and
after the Court of Disputed Returns had rejected on
technical grounds the evidence of a number of electors
who averred that the votes recorded against their
names had not, in fact, been cast by them.
Last year’s redistribution, although, like the
previous one, kindly to “Labor,” also seemed to single
Finnan out for special treatment; it took his seat
from under him. With an election looming up Finnan
set out tq find another. He tried his luck in Concord,
but the preselection ballot went against him. Then
some of the A.L.P. executive rushed down to Albury
and persuaded the local “Labor” branch to nominate
him, although a previous holder of the seat was up and
rearing to run. Came the election, and Albury showed
that it didn’t want the refugee from Hawkesbury and
Darlinghurst.
As soon as the result was known Finnan’s future
became a subject of public discussion. There was a
suggestion that he might replace J. M. Tally (another
“Labor” ex-Minister) as Agent-General in London, or
that he might be given “Labor” endorsement for die
Dulwich Hill seat on the elevation of the sitting
member, Conservation Minister Weir, to the Industrial
Commission. It seemed to be taken for granted that
something would be found for him. There was ample
reason for this belief, the four lucrative jobs mentioned
above by no means exhaust the list of prizes awarded
by “Labor” to its losers. The most generous distribu-
tion followed the 1946 Federal election, Frank Forde,
rejected by Capricomia, was dispatched to Canada as
High Commissioner; Frost, ex-Minister for Repatria-
tion, became Trade Commissioner in Colombo and
Breen, ex-M.H,R. for Calare, drew a similar post in
the Middle East—he didn’t hold it long, but bobbed up
a couple of years later as private secretary to Eddie
Ward. W. Bryson, beaten in Bourke by Mrs. Black-
burn, became private secretary to Army Minister
Chambers, and George Martens, who had failed to get
the party endorsement for his Herbert (Q.) seat, was
made a director of C.O.R. Finally, Donald Mountjoy,
for whom the electors of Swan (W.A.) had decided that
one term as their representative was quite enough, was
given an executive post on the C.5.1.R.0.
The chairmanship of the Hunter River Water
Board is a position of considerable responsibility, and
£2750 p.a. is a considerable salary, even in these days
of inflated pounds. The reason usually advanced to
justify high salaries for top executives in Government
and semi-Government jobs is that they are necessary
in order to stop the drift of good men into private
industry. Jobs at £2750 a year are not awarded in
private industry to defeated politicians; they have to
be worked for and earned. But if all the well-paid
posts in the Government’s giving are to go to party
hacks there is not much incentive for public servants
either to stay in the service or to train themselves for
advancement.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Corruption and Bribery
About 18 months ago a group of leading
citizens issued “The Call” to Australia —
an appeal to all hands and the cook to
realise what a splendid country we enjoy
and to join in a crusade of work and
faith. Whether it did us any good as a
whole is a moot point. In any event, the
Methodists, led by Rev. Alan Walker,
have now set out on another crusade to
reform us.
We badly need reform, though it seems
the would-be reformers intend to tackle
us on some familiar old evils. “Our
Church,” said Rev. Walker, launching
the crusade in Brisbane, “will come to
grips with the real problems of com-
munity and national life, particularly the
social evils of drink and gambling.”
Drink and gambling are old evils.
They’ve been with us always. And in
spite of free and compulsory education,
the efforts of anti-booze and anti-betting
groups, both still flourish exceedingly,
probably because, like those whom Moses
sought to reform, we are a stiff-necked
people.
But a far worse evil has spread and
flourished in the past 10 or 12 years —
bribery. Never before in Australia’s
history has the bribe been so widely prac-
tised. All the way from the extra 3d.
for 10 Australian cigarettes to the sum
slipped to a Government official, bribery
runs wild —so wild, in fact, that many
accept it as part of everyday life, and
some business and professional men and
companies even allow annual amounts
for it in their budgets, though it comes
under such heads as “entertainment, extra
emolument, contingent expenses,” and so
forth.
And the bribe habit, whose corruption
reaches down to the very roots of national
and individual integrity, is an evil beside
which drink and gambling are but pale
spectres. Bribery burgeoned during
World War 11, when people quickly dis-
covered that it was unnecessary to go
short of “essential” goods or be restricted
by controls if one was prepared to pay.
Socialist gofbrnment, because it multi-
plies “controls” and petty officials, is an
incitement to graft and bribery.
Graft has now so far corrupted the
community that the exposure of prac-
titioners, operating at top levels, brings
from the public little more than cynicism
and plain envy of the way the schemer
has “put it over.”
This corruption is our worst inheritance
from World War 11. All crusades for
reform should concentrate on it, for while
it is tolerated all other evils will persist.
We can hope the new Methodist crusade
will get results; meantime a lot of us
should be examining our own consciences.
Wild-cats in a Cage
Events behind the Iron Curtain have
not yet fully resolved themselves. The
“Government” of every country behind
the barrier is in a state of flux: political
transition, as always under Communism,
being marked by sudden death among
statesmen with halos, and by arrests and
“disappearances.”
In Moscow Marshal Voroshilov has
been given Kalinin’s old appointment as
President. Vyshinsky has been exiled
to U.N.O. They are lucky; but others,
both in Russia and satellite countries, not
so much.
Malenkov, Beria and Molotov are
obviously in command as a triumvirate,
with Malenkov as a spokesman and
dictator, pro tem or otherwise. But no-
body knows whether they are an agenda
committee, whether the condition of
affairs is such that Malenkov as the new
Stalin feels that the Security Minister
should be attached to him personally be-
cause the need is felt for an iron hand
to prevent the whole concern bursting
up, whether Molotov is in the party be-
cause of his experience or because his
boss desires to have him in the Kremlin
so that he can watch him, or immolate
him at the right moment:
The general dividing-up of Stalin’s
Old Guard suggests that a completely
new regime is being evolved. It is signi-
ficant that the beginnings of the re-
organisation date back to the calling of
the first national congress of the Com-
munist party for 13 years last October,
which can be taken as probf that some-
body was pretty sure that Stalin was go-
ing to have a stroke before long.
The Kremlin’s leading doctors have a
habit of being changed before death
strikes in high places—and /or directly
afterwards. The medicoes most in favor
in Moscow with the ruling aristocracy
went out in a body like a light; a new,
strange college of physicians came in
and, lo!, Stalin became at once suddenly
ill and perished. Mr. Gottwald, Presi
dent of Czechoslovakia, went to Moscow
caught pneumonia and perished—as sud
denly as Stalin. He is the last of the
pioneers of the Czech revolution.
He obviously could not be indictee
with his old associates Comrades Clem
enti and Slansky, who were his co-forgers
of the revolution, since he was needec
to prosecute them. However, he died as
simply as Dmitrov and many anothe
“beloved” world figure and prophet o
peace who has gone to Holy Russia once
too often. The Communist party of
Australia should vote congratulations to
Mr. Sharkey, who has recently come
home. Nobody knows whether Rakos
and Anna Pauker are in the same box
Their names have not appeared for some
time. And now Willi Pieck, who was an
associate of Dmitrov, and Chief In-
structor in the new Communism in
Germany, is failing.
As for the reasons for the sudden
shooting-down of Allied aircraft along
Iron Curtain borders last week following
on the impounding of a refugee MIG ir
Denmark, any guess is as good as another
Possibly there is no more in it than that
Soviet Russians behave under the Malen-
kov regime as under that of Stalin—like
what Browning called
Toads in a poisoned tank,
Or wild-cats in a red-hot iron cage.
The shooting-down of inoffensive air-
craft and crews bound on peaceful and
lawful missions seems a queer ingredient
of a world “peace” campaign.
Women and Socialism
“P.0.M.C.”: Australian Labor has not
always been socialistically-minded (B.
4/3/’53) —up to and including the period
of the John Storey Administration in
N.S.W. (and to an even later date in
the’Federal sphere) Labor had displayed
little mistrust of private enterprise. As
a matter of fact, much of Labor’s legisla-
tion earlier in the century might be de-
scribed as protectionist to private enter-
prise ; particularly of the new or smaller
industries then arising.
In latter years, of course, the Com-
munist element has disrupted Labor to
the point of splitting it, and, but for that
voting bloc (the loyalty of which is not
generally appreciated by political
students) the feminine vote, the A.L.P.
would enjoy nothing like the sway or
swing it has achieved.
Women—and most women are activated
by heart rather than head —are much
deeper-dyed Socialists than men. The
average man, be he laborer or magnate,
is an individualist at heart. This he re-
peatedly demonstrates in his own back-
yard, when digging a trench along a
suburban street, running the corner store,
founding an industry, or in any other
line of masculine endeavor. His ruling
instinct is to go his own way ; his in-
herent urge is to be boss. The average
woman, on the other hand, is a natural
Socialist. She proves it by her docile
aptitude as a class to follow rather than
lead, her abject slavery to fashion, her
security-approach to marriage, her unique
adaptability to repetition in industry, her
conformity or orthodoxy in the arts, her
inborn community spirit and her typical
outlook on life, political or domestic.
Indeed, Nature decrees that the physically
inferior of separate species shall be
Socialists, while the curve of the political
ideology known as Socialism ascends
sharply only within weak or weakened
nations.
For 30 years and more women have
entered the wage-earning fields in ever-
increasing numbers. They have joined,
and suffered control by, unions, and many
have become union-minded. Also, the
large majority of feminine wage-plugs
are young; utterly untouched by the
passion and even the significance of poli-
tics. The riddles of Parliamentary elec-
tions don’t explain their addiction to
headache-powders; those few who aren’t
instinctive Socialists already use their
franchise precisely as their fathers,
brothers, husbands, boy-friends or union
reps instruct them.
I suppose it could be truly said that,
whereas only a small minority of Aus-
tralian electors go to the polls thinking
nationalistically, about half of the re-
mainder—i.e., most of the feminine half
—vote irresponsibly. Socialisation appeals
particularly to women on principle;
“free” social services such as “free”
medicines, “free” health clinics, “free”
education, “free” pre-natal attention,
child-endowment, widows’-pensions, etc.,
represent a simplified pattern of living
what time the resultant heavier burden
of taxation “free” services involve is
thoughtlessly or airily blamed on govern-
mental mismanagement.
It follows, then, that while Labor,
despite our democratic Constitution which
theoretically demands equality for all
parties or classes, continues to sponsor
the idea of nationalisation as opposed to
the privileges of private enterprise it is
assured the lion’s share of the female
vote of this country. Hence the current
overwhelming preponderance of Labor
in our various Assemblies.
All of which brings us to an interest-
ing speculation. Men, in feminine eyes,
having made an unholy hash of govern-
ment, one wonders, taking a line through
the uninspired form of those few women
already entrusted with seats in Parlia-
ment, how long the country would remain
stable under a predominantly feminine
government.
The Basis of Government
The Speaker of the House of Represen-
tatives has said in evidence before the
Public Accounts Committee of Parlia-
ment that since 1934 the Legislature had
adopted a “slipshod and slovenly way”
of dealing with appropriations.
He said what Australia is beginning to
learn, and will know more clearly later
on, that a House subservient to the Execu-
tive is a potential menace, though he
supported “the principle of a strong
Executive having clear-cut, objective
plans and methods but subservient to a
discriminating, and 'if need be critical,
House”;
The Parliamentary system is today on
trial, because in none of its activities is it
subject to more criticism than on finance
and taxation and expenditure. Parliament
can be destroyed only by its own acts, and
if it dies it will die of self-inflicted wounds.
All revenue must come from the successful
toil of some people in the community
All taxation takes something from some-
body who has earned, saved, invested, pur-
chased, produced or bequeathed. An ever-
growing proportion of that revenue is dis-
bursed in ways which give large propor-
tions of people a vested interest in the
taxation of others for their own benefit
Of unauthorised expenditures by
Governments he said:
A case in point is Supplementary Esti-
mates. The money has been spent without
Parliamentary authority. Even if the House
should prove to be, on examination of
items, strongly opposed to the expenditure,
it is too late. The committee should see
section 2 of the Supplementary Appropria-
tion Act of 1950 for what I mean. On
July 5, 1950, over £5,000,000 was voted
and deemed to have been authorised on
July 1, 1948. It is both false and futile
to assert that Parliament has control of
expenditure under such circumstances
No Minister or public servant should be
empowered to presume on the acquiescence
of Parliament.
The fact is that Parliament has virtu-
ally lost control of public finance. The
Estimates, which have become so com-
plicated in presentation that no member
ha's any real chance of understanding
them, are in both Federal and State
spheres gagged through in a few days
without any adequate debate and in any
case ignored if it suits the Civil Service
and the Ministries. Parliament is then
presented with a fait accompli of “sup-
plementaries,” perhaps years afterwards.
As Speaker Cameron suggests, the
matter becomes serious as an increasing
civil service and a widening variety of
pressure-groups acquire prosperity
through a vested interest in the level and
nature of taxation. But nobody seems to
care.
"Several Fishing-boats"
When the Danish Government refused
to hand back to Poland an MIG 15
fighter-plane and its pilot, who had landed
on the island of Bornholm and claimed
political sanctuary, the Poles retaliated
by seizing several Danish fishing-boats
and their crews and holding them for
several days.
This warfare against fishermen rings a
faintly-reminiscent bell. In October,
1904, after the destruction of the Russian
Far Eastern fleet by Admiral Togo, the
Baltic Fleet under Admiral Rozhestven-
ski set out to sail round the world to
avenge it. The High Command of the
Russian Navy was reputed to be suffer-
ing from a severe attack of jitters;
Japanese officers had been reported in
various Scandinavian ports, and it was
generally assumed that they were up to
no good there. Whether old Rozy ex-
pected Nip torpedo-boats to be waiting
for him in the English Channel or whether
he suspected the British fleet of intending
to ambush him has never been properly
established, but on the night of October
21 he opened fire on a fleet of British
trawlers on the Dogger Bank and killed
several fishermen.
Diplomatic tongues and cables worked
overtime for a few days. The Russians
claimed they had been fired on first and
spoke of mysterious vessels without lights
which had allegedly kept bobbing up
around them out of the night. The
Anglo-Japanese alliance had been signed
not long previously, and a few hotheads
in London demanded war with Russia.
A squadron of R.N. ships “shadowed”
the Russian fleet for a few days, but
fortunately commonsense prevailed—
Russia agreed to accept an international
inquiry and to punish the officers con-
cerned.
The Bulletin commented at the
time that a suitable punishment for
Rozhestvenski would be to compel him
“to take up a selection near Bourke.”
Unfortunately for the Admiral he was
not given the opportunity. He led his
ill-fated fleet around the coasts of
Europe, Africa and Asia, accumulating
the weeds of four oceans, to its doom in
the Straits of Tsushima.
The Doyle Inquiry
The easy manner in which N. S. Wales
accepted Mr. Cahill’s solution of the need
for an inquiry into the astonishing stories
about "i 'szzzzA Aubrey Doyle’s alleged
associations with a Minister and members
and Parliament House shows how low
public spirit has sunk.
Mr. Cahill says he found that the Chief
Justice could not supply him with a
Supreme Court Judge, so he appointed
Judge Amsberg, a District Court Judge,
who will not have the power under the
Royal Commissions Act to compel wit-
nesses to give evidence which might
incriminate them. Parliament could have
given that authority to Judge Amsberg by
an amendment of the Act, but nobody
thought of suggesting it until Parliament
had adjourned, after sitting one day, until
next August or September. Nobody,
either, thought of suggesting that if a-
de facto Supreme Court Judge was not
available in N. S. Wales there were some
retired ones of great experience avail-
able ; also that one might have been
obtained from another State —a proceed-
ing which would have been the usual
thing for such an inquiry a few years
ago.
Mr. Cahill outlined the terms of the
inquiry. It leaves out Senator O’Sullivan,
who was made the subject of a nasty
innuendo on slender and unreliable
evidence by Mr. Cahill’s late Attorney-
General, Mr. Martin.
In the debate on the matter Mr. Cahill
shone best as a tactician. He succeeded
in turning the issue mainly on the ques-
tion of whether or no Parliament should
“waive its privileges” to allow evidence
to be given of what took place in Parlia-
ment House. This was accepted by the
House as a matter of mighty Constitu-
tional moment.
It is significant of the extent of know-
ledge of privilege which exists among
members of the N. S. Wales Parliament
that nobody rose to ask what privilege
exists in respect of events which took
place while Parliament was dissolved,
when, in fact, there was no Parliament,
and some of the so-called members con-
cerned were not Members of Parliament
at all. Neither did anyone raise the
point that privilege applies only to mat-
ters connected with the proceedings of
Parliament, not to transactions, real or
imagined, outside the ambit of Parlia-
mentary business.
As the Murray Sees It
Along the Murray River the people
somehow see things with a deeper appre-
ciation of values than the politically
harried and overcontrolled people of the
cities. Hence the Murray Valley Develop-
ment League, eyeing the history of the
past few months, expresses Murray
opinion in the March issue of “The
Riverlander”:
Schemes by which the British Commonwealth
would enlarge its food-production and export
earnings, with the help of a central monetary
corporation, were jubilantly welcomed as
Australia’s golden chance when Mr. Menzies
returned from the Empire Economic Conference.
What a sequel local statesmanship has provided!
In the first place, study of the food scheme was
postponed on trivial pretexts; in the next place,
it became secondary to a squabble on how to
keep the tax-ledger; and in the third place, the
States would not consent to over-all priorities
to promote both the national revenue and food-
supply. The wider need to help strengthen the
British family of nations, and the ideals and
freedoms the last war was fought to establish,
were not in the running. Mr. Menzies need
not have gone to London, except to complete
the circle of Commonwealth chairs—and, when
the second Economic Conference takes place
after the Coronation, nobody will envy his
explanation to Mr. Churchill and the Dominion
Prime Ministers that in Australia the States
believe in political glamor-jobs before partner-
ship with the Empire countries.
lt is plain from the levities of State
leadership that the distinct risk of having to
import food by 1960 is understood as little as
the general obligation to the British Common-
wealth. The warnings by State Ministers last
year could not have been genuine; they must
o Continued on next page )


See the “FARMERS’ BOY’’ DISPLAY on Anthony
Horderns’ Stand at SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW
fiWf
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY’’ Series II; Mark XII 1J h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2 hoeing blades, lOin.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, power take-off.
P.0.8./F.0.8. State Capital Ports, £124/18/9
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe,
oaluw guillotined!
Paspalum
r
Plough
DISTRIBUTORS:
NSW • GRAZOOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
r/DnW/r• pt?AZOOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne.
O’land * BUZAOOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane,
f Cr UTTERIiuCK BROS/Ltd., 61-63 Hindley St., Adelaide.
JV.A. and Tasmania: Distributors to be appointed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Sawbench
Generator
Lawnmower
Other attachments include;
SPRAY. DUSTER, COMPRESSOR for
inflating tyres, painting. etc CUI ltK
BAR, FURROWER. TRAILER. MILK-
ING - MACHINE, GENERATOR for
lighting, hole-boring, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your State
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS
BOY” AND ACCESSORIES.
NAME
ADDRESS
have been a part of the propaganda to attract
more loan money. Until shortages stare the
country in the mouth, no State Premier seems
likely to find conviction in the statement ot
the Prime Minister that “our sole aim must
now be to get more production from the soil.
The gauging of necessities that cannot be
dodged is not helped by articles like the olhcial
“National Development” magazine put out in
December —an uncritical laudation of secondary
industry which arrived at the innocent con-
clusion that, although agriculture should be
expanded, it is not “to be argued that such
expansion is to be preferred to the expansion
of other indigenous resources with better
returns.” The iron-and-steel industry is pointed
to as an investment superior to farming. What
a glory it will be when everyone has a
refrigerator and nothing to go inside it. There
is no long leisure, unhappily, to turn back
this misdirected line of thinking. The poise
of the world has never remained more gravely
uncertain; and if peace endures, the world is
still increasing by nearly 500,000 humans a
week.
This came immediately after an
optimistic outburst about increasing pro-
duction by the Federal Department of
Commerce and Agriculture, and it seems
to bear out the mild rebuke of Mel-
bourne “Age” that “It would be prema-
ture to conclude that marginal increases
after a bountiful season show signal
advances in the battle for greater food-
production.”
It would also, it seems, be premature
to conclude that the Premiers will go to
the next Premiers’ Conference with any
new or renewed appreciation of the
Empire food plan. No, what they’ll be
after will be more money for “political
glamor.” And there’s precious little of
that in a national production drive.
POLITICAL POINTS
only for defence purposes. The Federal
Treasury had to appropriate millions of
hard-earned money because we must be
prepared to meet the perpetual threat of
war. That’s a fairer statement of the
taxation case than pressure-groupers and
sour-gutted morning dailies are in the
habit of making.
• •
Opposition-leader Evatt professes to
be concerned at the thought of the
expense involved in changing the name
of the Commonwealth Bank to Common-
wealth Trading Bank. He showed no
worry on this score back in 1947 when
his party proposed to change the name
oi; every trading bank in Australia to
Commonwealth Bank.
• •
N.S.W. Minister for Transport Martin
wants to sell advertising-space on trams,
bus and trolley-bus tickets. The Long-
distance Transport Association should
seize the chance to publicise the virtues
of sending goods by road. ,
• •
The December election undoubtedly
gave Victorian Premier Cain a mandate
The week’s best piece of unconscious
lumor was Cahill’s remark that his
Government “would not debar a man
from appointment to high public office
merely because he was a politician.”
Nobody ever dreamed it would. What
the N. S. Wales Government does seem
to do is debar people who are not poli-
ticians.
• •
Although some interested parties have
naturally attempted to embarrass the
Federal Government over the 107 votes
recorded for the Communist candidate
at polling-booths in the Woomera rocket-
range area at the South Australian
elections, it seems hardly likely that Com-
munist agents, after successfully pene-
trating the security screen to get into
Woomera, would advertise their presence
there by voting for a Red. Factors to
bear in mind are:
(1) The “Labor” candidate and sitting
member Riches was well known. The
Communist, Johnston, was not.
(2) Riches visited Woomera, Johnston did
not —nor did he send any “literature” there.
The most likely explanation is that anti-
“ Labor” voters gave Johnston their vote
because he was opposing Riches, without
realising his affiliations. Riches himself
supports this view; so does Clive
Cameron, “Labor” M.H.R. for Hind-
marsh. Johnston would also pick up a
few votes from those “blind” electors
who always put 1 against the top name
on the ballot-paper,
• •
Judge Amsberg, who was appointed to
the District Court last October, will be
the royal commissioner in the Doyle
affair. The hearing will not begin until
criminal charges against Doyle have been
disposed of.
• •
Final counting in the three doubtful
Queensland Assembly seats —Condamine,
Cook and Roma —gave all three to
“Labor” by narrow margins. “Labor”
thus won seven seats —five from, the
Country party and two from the Liberals.
Party strengths in the new Parliament
are: “Labor,” 50 ; Independent Labor, 1;
Country party, 15 ; Liberal, 8 ; Indepen-
dent, 1.
• •
Premier Gair made no in the
portfolios of his Ministry, but Treasurer
Walsh has been promoted from ninth to
fourth in ranking.
• •
In South Australia the Murray seat
went to Liberal H. B. White by 69
votes after the preferences of two Inde-
pendent “Labor” candidates had been
distributed. Murray was held by “Labor”
in the last Parliament and its capture
makes the Playford Government’s net
loss two. State of parties in the new
Assembly will be: Liberal, 21 ; “Labor,”
14; Independent, 4. The Government
will thus have an over-all majority of
two, excluding the Speaker.
• ®
Tasmanian “Labor” Premier Cosgrove
said on Sunday night that Stalin “did
more to make the Australian cost of
living soar in the past six years than any-
thing else,” and that the high taxes Aus-
tralians had paid for years were necessary
THE NEW MEMBER
“Welcome to the fold, Finnan, but—s-s-shh!—don’t wake Baddeley.”
for the two-for-one redistribution scheme,
but with the next election not due until
the end of 1955 it seems rather foolish
to insist on doing the redrawing of the
boundaries right now, when it is almost
certain that the Federal electorates will
be changed considerably by that_ date.
Some Federal divisions in Victoria are
far above their quota and obviously due
for lopping. To base the State electoral
cut-up on present boundaries would mean
the whole benefit of the plan would be
lost almost before the map was drawn.
Why not pass the enabling Act now,
leaving the actual subdividing until the
Federal electorates are altered after next
year’s census?
• •
Though there has been a drop of 5000
to 36,654 unemployed registered in the
Commonwealth, Cahill’s State still leads
by lengths, N.S.W. being responsible for
22,000 of the total. Still, the N.S.W.
position is improving, the figure now be-
ing 21,999, a man named Finnan having
got a job measuring water or something
up at Newcastle.
-• •
Calwell is full of plans for what
“Labor” will do when it gets back to
power in Canberra. One of his latest is
a referendum to seek electoral reform m
South Australia, West Australia and
Tasmania, No mention of Queensland.
Perhaps he thinks the system there is
beyond reformation.
Arthur also says that nine years of
“Labor” government would change the
face of Australia. They’d certainly give
the country reason to take the grin off its
face.
• •
Cain’s amendments to the Vic. Workers’
Compensation Act provide coyer for
watersiders unsuccessful at the pick-up
against injuries incurred on their way
home. This is a recognition of the long-
accepted principle that the greatest
dangers of the wharfie’s calling are those
that beset him after he leaves the wharf.
• • •
I. G. Crawford, Federal Commerce
Department secretary, told the National
Security Resources Board that he ex-
pected the national wheat yield to be
190 million bushels in the coming year
as “against 161 million bushels produced
last season.” Mr. Crawford should have
consulted the latest official figures, which
make last season’s yield 180 million
bushels. This came from a reduced
acreage because of a splendid season. As
for next season, anyone who forecasts
the yield at this stage of the game is
sticking his neck out.
• •
For private landholders the Cahill
Government uses 1942 values. For re-
jected politicians and party favorites it
uses 1955 values.
• •
Another of the periodical Communist
picnic parties arrived at Canberra last
week, this time to “demand” the resig-
nation of the Menzies Government. The
usual team of “Labor” champions of
free speech (for all who agree with them)
met the demonstrators. The Govern-
ment is still in office.
• •
Summary of a N.S.W. land-acquisition
case: —
In 1950 the N.S.W. Government seized
Ghoolendaadi station, 40,000 acres, owned by
the brothers Pye, for subdivision into soldier-
settlement blocks. The Government paid com-
pensation on 1942 land values (about £211,000).
The brothers claimed that at 1950 values the
land was worth over £600,000. They applied
to Justice Roper, in Equity, for an injunction
against the seizure on the ground that it was
invalid. Justice Roper refused an injunction.
The Pyes appealed to the High Court, which
dismissed the appeal. They them appealed to
the Land and Valuation Court, and subsequently
to the State Supreme Court, which upheld the
appeal. The N.S.W. Government then appealed
to the High Court, which upheld its right to
“compulsorily acquire” land at 1942 values.
The Pyes are now considering an appeal to the
Privy Council.
The morality or otherwise of the
Government’s action is not considered.
All that is considered is the legal position.
In these matters there is vast difference
between law and justice,
• •
An advertisement of the newest poli-
tical party urges the reader to “Be a
Democrat by becoming a member of the
Democratic party of Australia.” It can’t
be as simple as that. There are Liberals
who are accused of being completely
illiberal and lifelong members of the
“Labor” party who “toil not neither do
they spin.”
• •
British Minister for Works Eccles,
hearing some wild yarn that a Canadian
had offered a British firm a contract to
build and export an entire prefabricated
town worth £25 million, said, “I’d like
to see a British overseas housing cor-
poration .for this sort of thing.” Well,
there was a British Overseas Food Cor-
poration which spent around £5O million
trying to grow peanuts and eggs in Africa
and sorghum in Queensland, and failed.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Enn Kay”: The perennial topic of
alleged Australian rudeness, especially as
written about by overseas scribes, always
reminds me of a verse which, I hasten to
explain, was told me in Brisbane by a
native of that city. As far as I know the
author has never owned up:
The people of Melbourne
Are frightfully well-bom.
The good folk of Sydney ,
Are of much the same kidney.
In South Australia they go in for culture —
But in Brisbane the natives insult yer
And bash yer and bang yer and don’t even
know they’ve been rude;
They’re that ignorant, common and crude.
—lt’s hardly worth
Mentioning Perth.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Snobber”; From time to time I have
found it necessary to deposit my type-
writer with a pawnbroker. Over the years
I have come to know most of the frater-
nity in the city, but in such matters,
naturally, one has a preference; mine
was for a genial, dark gentleman with an
enormous stretch of gold watch-chain and
who professed some interest in the arts.
I think we both enjoyed our monthly
haggles, spiced with bits of literary criti-
cism, and I would always contrive to
point out that I really couldn’t afford to
lose my typewriter, since it was my tool
of trade. This plea usually wrung an-
other ten-bob out of him, bringing the
loan up to the precise sum he had already
“If it's not a rude question, what salary do you expect ?”
decided. What I hadn’t bargained for,
however, was his fondness for strolling in
the evening, after the shutters were up.
It was a little disconcerting whenever I
was with company I was particularly
eager to impress to be greeted with a
shout of “Hullo, Mr. Snobber,
Don’t worry about your typewriter!” It
was no good pretending I hadn’t seen
him. I tried that, but he only shouted
louder. “You hear me, Mr. Snobber?
It’s quite all right. Your typewriter is
quite safe. Any time” And, with
a wave of his hand, my genial persecutor
would be gone. The first few times I
passed it off airily—“ Chap’s-mendin-
my - typewriter - hullo - isn’t - that - Jack-
Hogan?” sort of thing—but, after a while,
I suspected my story was wearing thin.
I grew to dread the sight of that gold
watch-chain and blue suit placidly taking
the air. I no longer patronise his estab-
lishment. In fact, X no longer own a
typewriter.
♦> ❖
0
“Nakh”: Discovery of 1000 amphora
of wine on board a Graeco-Roman ship
which sank off the southern coast of
France in the third century b.c. ought
to interest R. G. Casey, whose announce-
ment that he had found a bottle of claret
30 years old in his cellar and that it tasted
good aroused all the connoisseurs in Mel-
bourne. The 600-ton ship belonged to
one Marcus Sestius, a Roman merchant
and powerful politician who had been
naturalised a Greek citizen in 240 b.c.
in preparation for the Roman conquest
of Greece. This makes the beverage
nearly 2300 years old, so it should be
just about right.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Shadow-chaser”; A dame in our
town, disgusted by the high price of
nylons, plus their low quality, has written
to Melbourne “Age” objecting strenuously
to manufacturers “climbing to affluence”
up their “ladders” and scoring centuries
off their “runs.” She calls upon her
sisters-in-distress to join her in a bare-
legged buyer-resistance movement. The
movement has all my moral support so
long as ,it is confined to stockings.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Pip Tok”: Solicitor for a man charged
in a Perth court with having played two-
up pleaded that his client had a broken
neck, which would have been a handicap
in playing the national game. Beak
ruled that the player’s neck would not
have handicapped him for playing two-
up any more than it would for any other
game. Four quid and costs for this
advice. Legally and logically the decision
was probably sound enough, but psycho-
logically, no. How could a man partici-
pate to the full in a swy game unless
he could carry out the ritual of following
the flight of the spinning coins with his
eyes?
♦ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: To Australian soldiers of the
First War and to cricket-lovers in general,
Cobham Hall, depicted on the cover of
The Bulletin 11/3/’53, holds a special
interest as being the family seat of the
Earls of Damley. The eighth earl, then
the Hon. Ivo Bligh, captained the English
cricket team which visited Australia in
the 1882-83 season. Four Tests were
played, each country winning two, so
that Australia retained the Ashes, won
at the Oval the previous year. Bligh’s
performance on the tour was not spec-
tacular—he averaged 13 runs, with a
top-score of 45 and an aggregate of 200
—but he was popular in this country and
apparently took away pleasant memories
of Australia and Australians. More than
30 years later, when A.I.F. wounded
began arriving in England from France,
he handed over Cobham Hall to be used
as a convalescent hospital for Australian
troops. Thousands of Diggers have
happy recollections of that lovely old
mansion in Kent —and of the Leather
Bottle Inn in the village near by.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Feng-Shui”; Reported from London
that a boxer, trained for a fight
under a hypnotist who told him he
would win by a k.o. in the third
round, duly thus won. I don’t
know about automatic boxers, but
there are automatic walkers in Tibet who
cover distances which would seem in-
credible to an Olympic runner. When
the lamas want to send a message to a
distant part of the country or a sacred
relic of the Buddha brought to Lhasa
they resort to these peripatetic yogis.
“Look, Ma! Now can I join the circus ?”
Spells and incantations put the messenger
in a trance, and he starts off for his
destination. He goes with a strange,
loping stride which covers two steps of
an ordinary human being and never
changes even though the route lies over
some of the roughest country in the
most perpendicular State in Asia. People
recognise him by his walk and step to
one side when they see him approach ;
he is never hailed for fear the spell
should be broken. At normal times the
automatic walkers are no better pedes-
trians than their fellow-Tibetans, but the
potentialities of the human body are
enormous. A 2911-mile women’s foot-
race across the U.S. is being planned for
a prize of a 50,000-dollar Hollywood
film contract. That ought to be as great
a stimulus to the ladies as the yogi’s
spells and incantations.
“J.E.8.”: After nine years of deliver-
ing milk to respective service-lockers in
our block of flats and collecting his pay-
ment once a week, our milkman issued
an edict: No more bills; money must be
put in can each day or no more milk
delivered. Urged on by our capable care-
taker, who undertook to get milk each
morning for the lot of us, we left our
cans with him instead of in the serveries.
First and second days, no reaction. Third
day brought an afternoon visit from the
boss-milkman dressed in his Sunday best,
soliciting lost customers. “No, thanks,”
he was told, “we’re doing very nicely
with our new vendor, and —we pay once
a week.” Fourth day, a very docile milk-
carter called with a ipt. cream for each
flat and a humble request for the old
custom and —weekly bills as heretofore.
Victory won, and a caretaker suitably
rewarded, ours is a happy block of flats.
* * ❖
“Crunch”: Can’t agree with “Strict
Veg.” (B. 4/3/’53) that nutrition is a
state of the mind. The general set-up on
food and nourishment, as I see it, is this.
A carnivorous animal has special digestive
apparatus to turn surplus protein, the
bodybuilding element, into carbohydrate
for energy. A herbivorous animal has a
stomach to do the reverse. But a man
is omnivorous—that is, physiologically
speaking, he can eat anything: fish,
flesh, fowl and fruit—and his digestive
system is most efficient when he obtains
his energy from plant-foods and the
material to build and replace body tissues
from meats. If, however, good nutrition
depends solely on getting your feelings
and beliefs into line with each other, as
“Strict Veg.” suggests, then the world’s
food shortage is solved. What the starving
peasants need is not more food, but more
psychiatrists and a course of autosugges-
tion. But personally I think the solution
lies more in the state of the purse than
in the state of the mind.
*
“Rann”; In World War II the Gov-
ernment used dietitians to work out an
essential diet for the troops. One result
was that cheese figured high on the
ration-list. With my mob this meant that
a 30cwt. truck was needed to return the
unused cheese to the depot every time
there was a move on. The lads just
wouldn’t eat it. The one place where it
might have been popular would have
been on the counters of the canteen while
the beer issue was on, but nobody thought
of that. The only time we ever found
use for our issue of cheese was when we
were a small detachment in a Lebanese
village. A hunk of cheese could be
swapped for sufficient eggs to give us
a decent breakfast each morning.
“Casca”: Although the term “char”
for tea may have been brought from
India by British Tommies (B. 11/2/’53)
that is not its origin. Tea was introduced
to India and other countries from China,
and the Chinese call it ch’a.
❖
“Pawang”: Sir Macfarlane Burnet, of
virus fame, has been telling the Constitu-
tional Club in Melbourne that all the
basic occasions of human conflict can be
seen clearly by watching hens and mon-
keys ; he believes that such studies will
turn out to be as important for the under-
standing of human conflict as the study
of infection in animals has been for
the understanding and control of infec-
tious disease in man. I presume that
what the doctor means by this is that
the way of a man with a maid is much
the same for monkeys as it is for human
beings, just as the way of a germ in the
human body is much the same as the
way of a germ in a guinea-pig or rabbit.
Although I have studied monkeys both
in the jungle and the zoo, however, I
can’t remember ever noticing that a
monkey, when a member of the opposite
sex takes a fancy to it, buys itself a new
suit and its girl-friend a spray of orchids.
AND NOW—ELECTRICITY
“Councillor J. O. Cramer asked the general-
manager of Sydney County Council to investi-
gate the ‘adulteration’ of electricity sold to the
public.”
Red and black wiring lived together
In the old days of electricity.
Side by side in every weather,
Twined in marital felicity.
Alas for this delightful scene
That never knew a kink or wry-angle !
To red and black was added green,
Forming an electric triangle.
Crowded living-space, we read,
Can sap the morals of a nation:
Three leads, so thrown together, lead
Only to adulteration.
The brutal blackouts of our times
Aid and obliterate their shames:
O Earth, O Safety, are such crimes
As these committed in your names ?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
BOTANY BRICKPITS
I grieve with the willow that weeps beside
An industrial bank and a chemical tide,
That with reluctant roots must stell
From acid earths osmotic hell.
I sympathise with the clod who clove
The clay for a brick for a house for a love
The lovers lost on their wedding-day,
As the clod his labor on the clay.
Freedom is a green tontine
To crib and cabin and confine,
Whose ripening must, alas, rely
On whether the willow survives, or I.
N.S.W.
JAMES HUNTER.


“Smithy”: Master Five-year-old was
receiving road-safety advice on the way to
kindergarten. Patiently he waited while
two or three cars passed, then made to
cross the road almost under a horse-and-
cart. I began the lesson all over again,
but he interrupted with “But, horses can
see you. They’ve got eyes!” I con-
ceded him that point, and was careful
to point out that motor-cars do not have
eyes, and “they can’t see you.” He
agreed: “And the mans in the cars don’t
want to see you! ”
* ❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: Here’s another yarn of
the other side of Japanese ruthlessness.
A Victorian p.-0.-w., transferred from
Changi to the Siamese death railway, was,
for some reason or other, credited by the
Nips with being a timber expert, though
the nearest he had ever got to timber was
the backyard woodpile. He was sent
out with a Jap private to look for build-
ing timber. They were walking along a
jungle path when they met an orang-utan,
or, if it wasn’t an orang-utan, it was an
animal of as terrifying an appearance.
The Nip dropped his rifle and fled. The
Australian stood paralysed for a few
seconds, and then picked up the rifle,
pointed it at the beast and slowly re-
treated. When he got back to camp he
was charged with stealing the private’s
rifle and with attempted escape. The
private and a sergeant were bashing him
up when an officer with an Oxford accent
came up, asked a few questions, elicited
the whole story and then ordered the
private to be beaten.
* ❖ ❖
“Looby”: New Australian floored us
all when he came out with: “I know
about tomatoes and lettuce on barrows,
but what, please, are bolls ?” There was
a good deal of debate, and at last the
mystery was solved; the New Aussie
had heard a “collector” driving his cart
around the lanes and yelling out, in a
slurred tone of weariness, “Bottles?”
“X.M.N.”: Coastal freighter Dundula,
now being towed to Japan in company
with her sister Dilga, could tell her own
story of odd towing jobs. Loading at
Newcastle for Darwin, we were given the
job of towing two barges to Townsville.
Not “tandem,” but one on top of the
other. The Army impressed upon our
skipper just how urgently the barges were
needed at Townsville, but the Old Man
was most unimpressed by his tow and the
hundreds or so fathoms of propeller-
choking wire connecting Dundula to the
larger barge. All went well until we
reached Bowen, where we were to bunker.
Problem was to get alongside the wharf
without dropping the tow. Skipper finally
executed rather a neat manoeuvre, slowing
down and giving Dundula sheer at the
right moment, thus bringing the tow up
on our port side, where we made it fast.
He then went astern, taking us under the
bunkering crane. When we reached
Townsville we merely entered the harbor,
signalled Port War Station and thank-
fully saw our tow anchored just outside
the entrance channel. A month later,
when we returned from Darwin, the
“urgently-needed” barges .were still
anchored in the same spot.
❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Fish-eyes are delicious
(B. 4/3/’53) —I have it on the assurance
of my brother, who always eats those
parts of fish which normal diners habitu-
ally leave on their plates. I remember
eating fish with him on one occasion at
a King-street restaurant. We ordered
garfish. At the end of the meal my plate
bore the customary remains; not so my
brother’s. In fact, the suspicious waiter
looked under the table, plainly expecting
to find heads, backbones and tails on the
floor.
“Pat”: This psychology business can
certainly lead one round in circles. Heard
two women discussing their child prob-
lems in the bus, “Oh, yes, he’s a good
enough baby, now,” said the thin,
academic-looking one. “Simply bawled
the place down when I first brought him
home, but I took no notice. Wouldn’t
let anyone else pick him up, either. But
he soon settled down. Just ordinary
psychology, of course.” “That’s all there
is to bringing up children, really, just
basic psychology,” agreed the fat,
motherly-looking one. “Of course, the
dentist’s always at me not to let Jimmy
have any sweets, but if I didn’t promise
him a chocolate after every session in the
chair he’d scream the place down and
nothing would ever get done.” And
each nodded in amiable agreement with
the other’s opinion.
*■ ❖ ❖
“Brawn Bureau”: Among a spate of
diverting stories, authentic and otherwise,
produced by Eire’s neutrality during the
war was one of a certain club situated
right on the border of Ulster and Eire.
The clubhouse was so built that most of
it was in neutral Eire, but it was impos-
sible to walk out the back way without
landing in belligerent Ulster. The club
was much frequented by Air Force crash-
survivors making their way northwards
under the shut-eye surveillance of Irish
officials who should have interned them
“ Ridiculous! Why aren't they farther apart?"
in accordance with the neutrality con-
ventions. Also among the club’s patrons
were high-ranking civilian Nazi brass-
hats, legally present in Eire, and a liberal
salti ’ B of Both types of Jerries
J* frat^mise d with the “escaping”
R F types employing liberal quantities
of champagne with the object of learning
s t ra tegic secrets from loosened tongues.
xh e hospitality was gratefully accepted
hy the “fugitives,” who cheerfully vouch-
safed information along the letter-perfect
lines on which, as a pre-mission routine,
they had been carefully coached by
R.A.F. Intelligence against just such an
event. Then, with a satisfying cargo of
fizz aboard, the Air Force types would
yaw out of the back entrance of the pub
and thence to their squadrons.
"But, officer, these ARE my personal effects!”
“F.S.”: Melbourne University already
has courses in art-, drama- and literature-
appreciation: now it is to have a course
in film-appreciation. No doubt we will
soon have squads of earnest young men
and women invading the cinemas with
pencil and notebook and jotting down
what their professor has told them about
this and that producer, like the art-
appreciators who swarm about the
National Gallery. I saw a couple of
these peering at the new Rembrandt, and
-they both jotted down “masterly
chiaroscuro.”
* ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: Properly speaking, the title
“Old and Bold” (B. 25/2/’53) belonged
to the Corps Guards, recruited originally
in Palestine from First War veterans in
the Second A.I.F. Later, transfers of
veterans from the Western Desert were
made, and there was hardly a man in the
unit who had not seen active fighting
service. They were also known as “Ruth-
less and Toothless,” and it was their
band that led the Second A.I.F. into
Beirut after the close of the Syrian cam-
paign.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: The ancient contraptions which,
after being nearly 40 years on the tracks.
still have to shift the bulk of Sydney’s
tram passengers present hazards not only
to the troub., who, hanging on with
knees, elbows and eyebrows, plucks
tickets and gives change while perched
on his lOin.-wide swaying ledge as
trucks hurtle past a foot or so away. I
recall, not without some satisfaction,
strap-hanging in the smokers’ compart-
ment one peak-hour morning. The heavy
rain had ceased, it was steamy, and by
a stupendous effort a strong man present
succeeded in raising the canvas blind. A
couple of stops further on the passenger
on the end of the seat near the opposite
line alighted, and before I could lower
myself down into the vacant possie a
fellow dived into the tram, collared the
seat and leered up at me in triumph. He
was just about to open his paper when
the off front wheel of a heavily-laden
truck coming the opposite way hit a pot-
hole full of muddy water and the seat-
pirate copped the lot.
* <♦ ❖
“Melbn”: While strap-hanging I have
often wondered why Jolimont, the first
station out of Melbourne on the northern
line, is the only stopping-place on Vic-
torian railways which doesn’t have
posters yelling at you to buy this or that
or asking you to contemplate the wonder-
ful achievements of the Railways Com-
missioners. It appears that when Sir
William Clarke built his huge mansion,
Cliveden, he thought it would be nice if
he had a railway-station handy, so he
presented the V.R. with Jolimont on con-
dition that it would never have advertise-
ments on it. The railways have faithfully
observed the condition, so passengers are
left in peace for half a minute at that
station. The idea has possibilities that
could be extended.
$ ❖
v “Wackford”: Ishihara color-tests (B.
4/3/’53) sometimes produce unexpected
results. After watching a boy being
tested in a New South Wales school the
headmaster criticised the testers for classi-
fying the lad as a red-green color-blind
case. He claimed that the lad had called
the correct figures. Thereupon the testers
gave him a go at the book and found
that he, too, was a red-green case. When
last heard of the Head was muttering
that he “never did have much time for
these new ideas.”
* *X* *>
“A.R.”: The Victorian Railways seem
to be emulating the Communist artists
who delight in daubing anti-Menzies and
other slogans on brick walls and bridges.
A poster with a background of a rough
brick wall tells train-users they can buy
their periodical tickets at Spencer-street
or Flinders-street stations. At first glance,
the words seem to have been hurriedly
painted on the wall with a half-dry white-
wash-brush. Even the inverted “N,” so
common with Commo daubers, has been
included. Maybe it’s the idea of some
bright young Left-winger in the railways’
advertising section.
♦> *l* ❖
“Swelpme”: Talking of plagiarists (B.
11/2/’53), how does one describe an
author who commits plagiarism on him-
self? As a youth I enjoyed P. G. Wode-
house’s The Intrusion of Jimmy. Years
later a new Wodehouse book parted me
from a few shekels. The first page
seemed familiar, the next more so;
familiarity bred —ire! Piccadilly Jim was
identical with The Intrusion of Jimmy.
Psmith, Journalist, by the same P.G.,
pleased me immensely; so did his short
paper-covered novelette, Barbara On Her
Own. Some time after reading those two
I came across a full-length book bearing
the title of the paper-back. It was a
repetition of the novelette as far as the
original had gone, but at that point the
author had shipped his heroine to
America, and, with Barbara taking the
place of Psmith, repeated the last half
of Psmith, Journalist. Yet I still can’t
resist a Wodehouse book! Which sets
me wondering whether the old boy really
is the world’s best humorist or whether,
it’s just that I’m the biggest sucker.
POOR SPECIMENS
“I never knew an old-time stage-villain who
wasn’t amiable and thoroughly respectable off
the boards. It was the popular, handsome
juvenile lead who was often the villain at
home.” —Article on old melodramas.
You’d naturally assume that he
Who villained in his waxed moustache,
Acting the heartless mortgagee,
Simon Legreeing with his lash,
Might, in his own home, just for fun,
Or for a spot of needed practice
Act rather like a berserk Hun,
Take to his missus with a gun
To see her light out for the cactus.
Yet never did his teeth he gnash,
Except at times when he’d rehearse.
He couldn’t bring himself to thrash
The kids, even to mildly curse.
Many a victim had he tied
To railway-lines for trains to mangle,
And joyed when messily they died.
How disappointing that, outside.
No relatives he’d ever strangle!
Those milk-and-water villains brought
The old-time stage to disrepute.
No real mayhem they ever wrought.
Nor even went out on the scoot.
Their fellow-‘ham” viewed with despair
Lives that he deemed completely
aimless.
Respectability was their
Passioq. But, oh! The hero fair —
His life was very far from blameless.
That marcelled gallant, noble-browed,
Who stacked the flappers in the aisles,
With nastiness was oft endowed
Despite his nice enamelled smiles.
He’d hit the sherbert, ruin gals,
Indulge in awful dissipations,
Have most disreputable pals.
And yet, despite his bacchanals
He’s honored by theatricals —
He saved the stage’s reputation!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped”
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EXU#
PERSONAL ITEMS
Cabinef-majdng after the Westralian
Assembly election has given another of
those turns to Fate’s wheel. F. Graham,
who becomes Minister for Forests and
Housing, was a draughtsman in the
Forestry Department before he entered
politics.
Pretty well everybody in N. S, Wales
who had anything to do with wool and
sheep expected long Jack Coleman to
go on for ever. He went out suddenly
at 50-odd. His long nose, penetrating
eyes and confiding grin carried him from
State experiment farms into the Depart-
ment of Agriculture head-office, where
he was chief of the sheep-and-wool
branch at the finish. Stud-ram buying
expeditions to the United Kingdom,
study tours of New Zealand, a com-
prehensive report to the Commonwealth
Government on the fat-lamb industry
and introduction of Merino ewe and fat-
lamb competitions marked his career, but
nobody will ever fully appreciate how
far his influence reached into the pastoral
industry.
Following the visit of Sir Allen Lane,
the Emperor of the Penguins, who said
that Australians were the world’s most
omnivorous readers, another English pub-
lisher has arrived in Melbourne to have
a look at Britain’s best outside market.
He is Mark Longman, a director of
PUBLISHER
Longmans, Green and Co., and he is as
young as he looks in the sketch by
Fenner. His great-great-great-grand-
father founded the parent firm in 1724,
and on the present board are three other
Longmans. His field is mainly the educa-
tional one, but his firm is expanding into
more general reading-matter. It is
alleged that he is on the lookout for
Australian stories. With him is his wife,
Lady Elizabeth Longman, daughter of
the late Earl of Cavan, a childhood friend
of Queen Elizabeth, and a bridesmaid
at her wedding. She met her husband
when she was working a typewriter in
the Army.
In praise of famous men:
The Services Reconnaissance Department of
W.A. has published a brochure containing
details of the trial and execution of the sur-
vivors of the group of men who blew up ships
in Singapore Harbor in September, 1943, of
whom Major-General Ohtsuka, at a Japanese
7th Area Army staff conference, said that “all
members of this party” were “the flower of
chivalry” and the exploit should be taken as
an example by the Japanese Army.
The ten survivors were lodged in Outram-
road jail, sentenced to death by a military court
on July 5, 1945, and beheaded on the execution-
ground off Reformatory-road on the 7th.
The address of the prosecuting officer reads
in part: “With such fine determination they
infiltrated into the Japanese area It has
been fortunate for us that their intention was
frustrated half-way, but when we fathom their
intention and share their feelings we cannot
but spare a tear for them” (Translation
of records of Judiciary Dept., 7th Area Army.)
Again, from the same- source: “When the
deed is so heroic its sublime spirit must be
respected, and its success or failure becomes a
secondary matter. These heroes must have left
Australia with sublime patriotism flaming in
their breasts and with the confident expectation
of all the Australian people on their shoulders.
“The last moment of a hero must be historic,
and it must be dramatic. As we respect them,
so we feel our duty of glorifying their last
moments as they deserve: and by our doing
so the names of these heroes will remain in
the heart of the British and Australian people
for evermore. In these circumstances I con-
sider that a death-sentence should be given to
each of the accused.”
The original party were: Lt.-Col. I. Lyon,
Lt.-Commander D. M. N. Davidson, Capt.
R. C. Page, Lt. H. R. Ross, Major R. N.
Ingleton, S/Lt. J. G. M. Riggs, Lt. B. Rey-
mond, Lt. A. F. Sargent, W.O. H. J. Willers-
dorf, Sgt. D. P. Gooley, Cpl. A. S. R. Campbell,
Cpl. C. M. Stewart, Cpl. C. M. Craft, Cpl.
R. B. Fletcher, Pte. D. R. Warne, W. 0.2 H. A.
Warren, Sgt. C. B. Cameron, A.B. W. C. Falls,
A.B. F. W. Marsh, A.B. M. W. A. Huston,
L/Cpl. J. F. Hardy, L/Cpl. H. J. Page.
Having got out of Brisbane City poli-
tics —“chucked out —along with Chand-
ler,” he puts it—William M. Cook, who
owns the “Dayboro Times and Moreton
Mail” in Queensland, gathered his wife
and daughters about him and fled south
for a holiday. In Sydney he fulfilled two
long-standing desires, to see the Sydney
Cricket Ground and The Bulletin steps.
While he was admiring the steps it was
discovered that his paper is only eight
years younger than The Bulletin,
having been born in 1888. Charles Gill
was the founder, then Sam Woods
Brooks, M.L.A. for The Valley, took
it on. He was followed by Will H.
Lister, who was well-known in
Brisbane for his sombreros and was
“Grandfather” on the original 4QG radio
programmes. After Lister came the pre-
sent owner’s father, whom W. M. Cook
succeeds. This is the same W. M. Cook
who gave Brisbane’s present Lord Mayor
Roberts a go for the State seat of Nundah
in the 1950 election, Roberts winning by
520 votes. An enthusiast with a keen
face and looking younger than his 53,
Cook was last seen standing in rapt
admiration on S.C.G.’s famous Hill.
The Elder Conservatorium of Music,
Adelaide, has acquired two Englishmen.
They are Lance Dossor, of the Royal
College of Music, London, who will
teach pianoforte, and Harold Fairhurst,
leader of the Bournemouth Municipal
Orchestra, who will teach the violin and
lecture in theoretical subjects to diploma
students. Dossor has won international
prizes for pianoforte in Vienna, Warsaw,
and Brussels. After war service he joined
the staff of the Royal College of Music
in 1946. In the same year his colleague
formed the Fairhurst Trio with John
Moore and Reginald Paul, and since then
has taken part in about 1000 concerts
arranged by the British Council. They
arrive in Adelaide mid-year—in May and
July respectively.
Forty-one-year-old wealthy Argentine
rancher Carlos Guerrero, joint-owner of
one of the world’s largest Aberdeen-
Angus cattle studs, will this year visit
Australia and New Zealand to judge
show-stock at the invitation of the
Aberdeen-Angus Society. The three
Guerrero brothers and their father, Hector
M, Guerrero, own 35,000 Aberdeen-
Angus on five ranches and several lease-
holds having a total area of 180,000 acres,
plus 30,000 Romney Marsh sheep and
2500 horses. Senor Guerrero will judge
at Melbourne, Launceston and Danne-
virke (N.Z.) shows. His grandfather,
Carlos Guerrero, took the first black
cattle to Argentina in 1879. Since then
the family has bred only blacks, begin-
ning an impressive show record in 1915
at Palermo (Buenos Aires) with a bull
which subsequently won six grand and
four reserve championships. Hector M.
Guerrero founded the Aberdeen-Angus
Cattle Society of Argentina, was its sec-
retary for many years and president from
1925 to 1928. Carlos was secretary in
1944-46, and has been its president since
1952. He is a vice-president of the
Argentina Romney Marsh Breeders’
Association. He has had 18 years’ ex-
perience as a cattle-judge—judging at
Chascomus, Tandil, Buenos Aires, Anzul
and Concordia in Argentina, at the Inter-
national Chilean Show at Santiago and
at Perth (Scotland).
When London audiences see Benjamin
Britten’s Coronation opera “Gloriana”
(on the love of the ageing Elizabeth I
for the young Earl of Essex) they will
be looking at scenery some of which has
been done by Melbourne artist Kenneth
Rowell. Rowell painted the scenery for
the Borovansky Ballet in Melbourne, and
in England designed the decor for the
Christmas production of “Alice Through
the Looking-Glass,” as well as that for the
first filmed ballet in three dimensions. His
latest job is assisting John Piper in
designing the 400 costumes for the Britten
opera.
Fair-haired rangy War II Digger, Don
L. McCaskill, who attends to the spiritual
needs of Methodists in the Murchison
area of Westralia, has done a lot of
travelling. Invalided home after service
in the Middle East, he went to New
Guinea as a Y.M.C.A. man. Home
again, he qualified for a civil-aviation-
pilot’s licence while completing his theo-
logical studies in Melbourne. Now he
has settled down in Meekatharra with his
wife, a former A.I.F. nurse, and flies
over about one-fifth of the State in his
Tiger Moth on church business. He
also takes part in aerial searches for
missing men and lost sheep (“in the
literal sense,” he explains). With the
Rev. Father O’Flaherty, who also flies
a Tiger Moth, he does medical flights
for the flying-doctor service when that
overworked organisation has more jobs
on hand than planes to cope with them.
“Abi Tonus”: The choice of Inspec-
tor A. M. (“Sandy”) Sinclair to lead the
contingent of 25 members of the Royal
Papuan Constabulary at the Coronation
was received with general satisfaction in
the territory. “Sandy” was with the
Scots Guards before joining the New
Guinea Police in 1936, and his friends
still ask him where he keeps the ramrod.
After a fine stint of war service with the
R.A.A.F., Water Transport Section, and
with the Royal Papuan Constabulary
(mentioned in dispatches), he took over
the training of all native police recruits
at Sogeri, 30 miles from Port Moresby.
That solemnity which seems to invest
accompanists has little place in the make-
up of Gerald Moore, as Hawley here
implies. As well as being the world’s
GERALD MOORE
best-known accompanist—the celebrities
of voice and instrument with whom he
has collaborated are legion—he is a first-
class humorist, able at the fascinating
lecture-recitals he gives to play on the
risible faculties of his audiences as easily
and skilfully as he does on his keyboard.
A Londoner, he toured Canada as a
piano prodigy at 15, but at the sugges-
tion of Landor Ronald abandoned the
overcrowded concert-platform to become
an accompanist. Now he gets equal
billing with the celebrity he is accompany-
ing. Thanks to Moore, the status and
art of the accompanist have been raised.
His Unashamed Accompanist is a best-
seller, and another book will be off the
presses this year.
Dropped in from Sarawak, on a spell
from District Officering, Dick Morris got
a taste for the life tropical when (with
artist Prior) he was on ack-ack ops.
in New Guinea. Hailing from
DISTRICT OFFICER
Boulder City (W.A.), Morris was
schooled at Sydney’s Shore, and went
with the 2/Ist Light A.A. Regiment to
the Middle East early in 1941. Followed
Palestine and Syria, and, in the Orcades
on the way home, a tentative look-in at
Java. The island was too far gone, so
Orcades steamed from Tanjong Priok for
Colombo, escorted by British cruiser
Exeter, of Graf Spec legend. Morris’s
mob must have been among the last Aus-
tralians to see the gallant 8-incher— she
left them near Krakatoa and steamed
back to meet her fate at the guns of a
Jap heavy-cruiser squadron shortly before
Perth got hers. Still up north when the
war ended, Morris joined the military
administration in Borneo. Up there he
journeyed by dugout-canoe and out-
board-motor on duties ranging from
magisterial decisions and agricultural
inspections to checking post-office
facilities, peace-keeping and general good
government. He claims the Borneo
administration to be one of the most
benevolently successful in the Empire,
From six to eight p.m. the D.O. holds
open house, when anybody may drop in
to air his grievances, regardless of class.
“Comes” (Tas.), on an old friend:
Clerk of the Tasmania Legislative Council,
Carrel Inglis Clark, passed on, January 18.
A son of Andrew Inglis Clark, Attorney-
General, Judge of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania, and Tasmanian member of the Federal
Convention, his only surviving brother recently
retired from the judicial bench of this State.
Clark worked for a time as a journalist with
the old “Tasmanian News,” and went into the
State service as Asst. Clerk to the House in
August, 1917. In private life he had a critical
taste for literature and history, and, stimulated
by his father’s notable work on constitutional
law, began to write himself, mainly under the
nom de guerre of “Derwentside” and mainly
on historical subjects. It was not until 1947
that his “Parliament of Tasmania: an Historical
Sketch” was published. At the time of his
death he had the material for a second edition
in hand. With failing health he continued in
his place during the sessions, sleeping in His
office and only returning to his home at the
end of each week. Physically frail all his life,
he carried out his duties with a profound know-
ledge of Parliamentary procedure and a rare
dignity. A sensitive, friendly person, with a
Puckish streak, there was sincere grief in both
Houses when the new session opened without
him.
Into the Silence:
In Dunedin (N.Z.), C, G. Smith, chairman
of directors of the “Star.” Joining the com-
pany 60 years ago, he became a director m
1919.
In Marseilles, at 63, Dorn Stephen Moreno,
composer of church-music and for over 30
years a member of the Benedictine Monastery
at New Norcia (W.A.). On his way to visit
Spain, after an absence of 30 years, he became
too ill to complete the voyage. Dom Moreno
joined the Benedictine Order in 1904. The
Spanish Government has offered to publish
many of his works which are still unpublished.


A JOB OF PAINTING


ABORIGINALITIES
“Birubi”: Crazy economy in Tas-
mania! If you go in for egg-production
you find that eggs don’t pay but poultry-
manure does. If you change to “soft-
fruit” farming you let the blackcurrants
and raspberries rot on the bushes while
processors offer 7|d. a pound for black-
berries, a noxious weed!
♦ ■ ♦ * *
“H.C.8.”; George was hanging a huge
jewfish’s head on his shed door when
I dropped in. It was a whopper, and I
said so. George will never get into
trouble through talking too much; he
merely nodded. “Did you catch him?”
I asked. “No; wish I did,” he drawled.
“Who did, then?” I persisted. “No one,”
was the amazing answer. “Well, some-
one must’ve caught him!” I declared,
“Nope ; I nearly did,” he said. “Nearly
did? And yet you’re fixing his head to
that door! Are you going to tell me he
got away?” I was beginning to wonder
which one of us was mad. “No, he
didn’t get away, exactly; I wish he had
—might’ve saved me two quid.” It was
getting worse. A partial explanation
struck me: “You found him washed up
on the beach?” “No; I hooked him
from the dinghy, yesterday,” he replied
quietly. There is only one thing to do
with George when he gets like that —
treat him like a jibbing horse; let him
alone and when he’s ready he’ll go on
with it. A couple of hours later, as
we sat on the jetty with hand-lines out,
he volunteered; “Near caught su bonzer
jewey yesterdee. Hooked him and was
“Purely experimental , sir.”
playing him when all of a sudden the
line goes slack. The next minute there’s
a swish and an eddy and —bang went two
quid.” He shut up at that. It took
nearly 15 minutes to extract the rest
from him. The hooked jewey had seen
a shark coming at him, tried to escape
by darting under the boat, and had been
against the kellick-rope just as the
monster snapped. Result: George got
the head, the shark got the fish, Davey
“ You're wrong. It's a self-portrait on a black background .”
Jones got the kellick, and the boatshed last I saw it —30 years after it had been
man got two quid as compensation for erected.
his lost property. . „
“Muskeen”; “An eye like a Bromli-
kite” is a household phrase in the N.T.,
and the kookaburra’s sight (B. 4/3/’53)
is no keener than that of this bird. When
the Bromli eats it not only satisfies its
hunger but makes provision for home-
comforts. It builds a stick nest lined
with fur, and it obtains the fur by eject-
ing small round pellets from its stomach
after feeding. These pellets are composed
of the fur of the animals on which it
has dined.
* * * *
“Irving”: Mention of the place-
name “Walpeup” meaning “place where
a lubra sat down” (B. 4/2/’53) recalls an
occasion on our Torres Straits island
when a preponderantly feminine group
of tourists arrived. As I was too busy
to escort them, the ladies went exploring
on their own account and were overdue
for lunch, which led me to ask a Binghi
oldster if he had sighted any of them
on his journey to and from his garden.
“I bin no seen, bawss! ”he told me. “But
I bin pinish see where them fellers sit
down for smoke-oh. Six married missus
sit down one place and young fellers go
nudder way,” Just then the ladies re-
turned in one body, I then learned for the
first time that all except six were single
young ladies, just as my Binghi informant
had divined on no other evidence than
the prints left on the sand when the ladies
had rested. I told them of the masterly
piece of deduction but thought it better
not to remove their impression that old
Wuelu had made his decision on the
observation of footprints.
“A.D.T.”: There are many graves
scattered along the 400 miles of the
Georgina from Cammooweal to Boulia
(Q.), most of them unnamed. An old
boundary-rider on Walgra had an up-
turned camp-stretcher to keep the cattle
off his resting-place. Most elaborate was
that of a teamster out from the 18-mile,
near the Border Fence, on Lake Nash
station. He died on camp during a wet
season, and as his fellow-teamsters had
plenty of time on their hands while wait-
ing to become mobile again they pro-
vided him with a fence, the rails big
enough for strainer-posts, the posts them-
selves capable of withstanding a bull-
dozer. It was still straight and true when
“Loulalo”: I don’t know about any
definite etymology for “yo” (B.
25/3/’53); peculiarity of pronunciation
could easily make “ewe” sound like it.
But I have heard the title of a woolly
matron pronounced differently again, and
it doubled up everyone who heard the
green lady-announcer giving the market
reports in our Victorian Western Districts
during the war. According to her “there
was a rise of one shilling per head for
‘ee-wees.’ ”
* * * *
“Bobbie Jay”: On Sunday in our
remote N.T. fastness the station abos
and bush myalls all gather for church
service held by a mission-trained native
preacher. Missus confided that at first
she was bewildered to see so many
Christians. One evening the housegirls
were listing the names of the faithful.
“Which one Maggie?” asked missus.
“Oh, no, missus,” said a horrified lubra.
“Me no Christian—just go to church all
day Sunday!”
* * * *
“H-piece”: Those Cornish pumps (B.
4/3/’53) were once standard equip-
ment on all large alluvial and reef mines.
When I first went below in Ballarat a
Cornish pump drained the mine from
2200 ft, The cast-iron beam weighed 21
tons, and the beam-engine had a 60in.
bore by an 84in. stroke. Although known
as Cornish lifts they were in reality force-
pumps, the work being done on the
descending stroke. To counterbalance
these rods or lifts there were bobs every
400 ft. from the surface to 2000 ft. I never
worked at Moolort (Vic.), but the Pioneer
shaft there was equipped
with two 22in.- and one
26in.-diameter pump, the
foot-strokes of which would
be about 70ft. per minute,
making it easily the most
water ever lifted by one
mine in Australia. The
lead or gutter in this mine
was a mile wide, but was
too patchy to be payable.
There may have been mines
at Wallaroo or Moonta
(S.A.) where the men rode
the rods; it was once com-
mon in Cornwall. Steps or
cleats were nailed on the
lifts, and these, in turn,
worked right alongside the
ladders. When a shift
started to go to the surface
a good rousing hymn was
started, such as “Onward
Christian Soldiers,” and at
the right beat every man
would step aside either from
the rods to ladders or vice versa, and up
they would go at the rate of about 70ft.
a minute. After the great accident
at the Levant mine about 30 years ago,
where around 70 men were on the rods
when one broke, resulting in appalling
loss of life, authority banned the practice.
Those Cornish, lift-pumps gradually gave
way to three-throw ram-pumps and
multi-stage centrifugal and turbo-pumps,
and more recently Pomona pumps.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: The boss is a country-
man fated to spend much of his time in
an office. When his holidays are
approaching there’s a faraway look in
his eyes, he never leaves a forwarding
address, and when he comes back there’s
western dust on him for weeks after-
wards. A quiet lass applied for a start
lately; she had had little training in
anything we do, but when the trump
found she hailed from somewhere be-
tween Bourke and the Queensland border
he put her on, and to make her feel at
home let her help the girls who prepare
the morning-tea. As expected, she made
a good brew and settled in smoothly, but
the other day the old man chose the
wrong- second in which to walk past the
tearoom-window and copped a cup of
slops in the left ear. With his outraged
hat in his hand he landed in the room,
the heartwrung apology of Miss Mulga
was swept aside as he fired her on the
spot—fired her from the tea job, that is,
for the old bloke will see the funny side
of it later and has learnt to curb his
peppery tongue. The more experienced
females hud by this time got a soapy rag
to work on the boss’s hat and neck and
he stumped off with his faith in the wide
horizons badly shaken. We tip that he’ll
let her go back to the teapot next week,
but not before pointing out to her that
when there’s an asphalt path instead of
the blacksoil plains outside the window,
it’s not a bad idea to look both ways
before trying to hurl your garbage to the
skyline.
* * *
“Old-timer”: I wonder if Dick the
Dasher knows anything about this skiting
that’s going on about sheep-dogs. He
had Larry and Rowdy, both black barbs,
and all he had to do was point his whip
to whatever line of the compass the
sheep had to go. Then he could climb
in his sulky and go to sleep and Larry
and Rowdy would do the rest. Some-
times Dick’s horse
would fall asleep,
too, whereupon
Rowdy would come
back, wake it up,
see that it was plod-
ding along again,
and rejoin Larry.
The last time I
struck Dick was at
Trundle (N.S.W.).
The day was a
stinker and about
mid-afternoon Dick
arrived. Out of the
sulky he lifted
Larry. Larry was
exhausted, eyes
ringed with dust, even the prick-ears
drooping, Dick dropped Larry in the
horse-trough and joined us in the bar.
“Bringin’ six hundred wethers in from
Platina,” he said. “They’re knocked up
about four mile out. Me dogs knocked
up, too.” Presently a rejuvenated Larry,
still dripping water from the trough,
shoved a head into the bar. “Way back,
Larry boy,” ordered Dick, “an’ send
Rowdy in. Way back! ” The black head
vanished. We were still there when a
splash sounded outside. “That’ll be
Rowdy,” Dick said. Up to its ears in
the horse-trough was another black dog,
wallowing and lapping. They’re the sort
of dogs to have.
THREE HA’PENCE FOR TUPPENCE
“Three ha’pence for tuppence in change of a
bob” —
O’Larrisy canters along on his cob.
I hear him come over the ironstone ridge
With a rhythmical beat of the hoofs on the
bridge.
“Three ha’pence for tuppence in change of a
bob”
O’Larrisy canters along on his cob.
O’Larrisy lived near the little bush school
On the bank of the creek (that was dry as a
rule)
—A tall heavy bushman, black-bearded and
strong —
And when of a morning he cantered along,
“Three ha’pence for tuppence in change of a
bob,”
We sang as Q’Larrisy passed on his cob.
But if you awoke in the dead of the night
To the thundering hoofs of a horseman in
flight,
A steed that was driven by whip and by goad.
There was something amiss—’twas O’Larrisy
rode:
In a little bush homestead a mother or wife,
A child or a husband was fighting for life;
And many a heart when the grey dawning came
Called the blessing of God on O’Larrisy’s
name.
From the camp by the creek when the wild
bullocks broke
In the dead of the night and the stockmen
awoke
To the bellow and rush of a maddened stampede
A big bearded horseman raced out in the lead.
Wielding his whip by the side of the mob,
O’Larrisy thundered along on his cob.
He headed and wheeled them three miles from
the camp
And cowed and subdued in the morning dew’s
damp,
With the rest of the stockmen he herded them
back.
Then waving his whip on his mettlesome hack —
“Three ha’pence for tuppence in change of a
bob”
O’Larrisy cantered away on his cob.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.
GULLS
The grey-white gulls all stand together,
Facing the gusty, salt-damp weather,
Toes turned in, webbed feet on sand,
Tails all pointing to the land.
Sometimes, one will fly to sea,
More will follow, one, two, three.
As if warming up against the chill.
There! One swooped to make a kill.
Now the squabble and chase is on,
Bird after .bird they rise, are gone
Over the rippling brink of spray.
Off they go, away, away
In linking circles across the tide,
Wider still and side by side.
The little fish glints in the sun,
Falls from the red beak, one by one
The boomerang wings dip down after
(Are those mewing cries their laughter.)
Ah! It is lost, far out of reach.
Tired birds fly back to the beach.
And grey-white gulls all stand together
Facing the gusty, salt-damp weather.
Toes turned in, webbed feet on sand,
Tails all pointing to the land.
QUEENSLAND.
JEAN J. LAIDLAW.


“D.H.E.”: There was a small gather-
ing of idlers outside the township’s
garage when the owner’s wife returned
from taking the new car for a testing run
over some of the badly-corrugated
secondary roads. Its points were
learnedly discussed until old Josh said,
“What about your front suspension—-
does it rattle when you move fast, Mrs.
Morris?” Then, as the lady gave him
a freezing look before moving off,
“G’bloomey, what’s gorn an’ bitten her ?”
* * * *
“Derwent”; Acting no doubt with the
approval of the entire harassed animal
world, a horse has at last arisen and
turned the tables by running over a car.
A Launceston (Tas.) man stopped the
tourer he was driving and, because of
the consequent cloud of dust, a horse-
man coming behind at a gallop failed to
notice the vehicle until right on top of
it. Taking the car in his stride, he
mounted straight across its top, the
horse’s hoofs ripping off the hood and
causing a door to shoot down the road.
The driver’s wife and daughter, thrown
to the front of the car, got off with
shock. The galloping horseman received
a dislocated shoulder, and the steed cut
its forelegs and chest.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: To save time, trouble and
inconvenience, I carry in the back of
the utility a box holding an old paint-
tin cut down into a firepot; two billies
fit inside it, the griller slips in at the
side, and the spare corners are taken up
by a sugarbag of assorted chips. Pic-
turesque campfires are all very well at
picnics, but on the road I’ll have my
tea made before those blokes have their
billy warm. The chips are the key to
swift success; they should include a bit
of bark for instantaneous kindling, some
quick-burning stuff to lick up around
the sides of the old black billy, and a
chunk or two of slower fuel that will
settle into a hot glow for grilling after
the tea is made. Most camps and stops
“Nothing like him!"
furnish a few chips to replenish the bag,
and the thus-accumulated mature in
this one represents most of the Ma State
and beyond. Gippsland wattle-sticks
have got mixed with native cypress;
Riverina yellow-box rubs with a flake of
shelly bimble-box from a long way
farther out; and a fellow-camper on the
South Coast thought I had incense on
my fire because I’d fed it with a stick
of budda from near Nyngan. Surprising,
in a land of good fuels, how often you’ll
strike a place where hardly any of the
wood is worth burning; the N.S.W. far
west is about the only region where prac-
tically anything you pick up burns well
—which explains why a few bigger
chunks have wandered around with me
for special occasions. Above the tree-
line on the shoulder of Kosciusko, where
the water boils reluctantly, I split up an
old dry lump of gidyea, the fuel that
turns a kitchen-stove into a furnace.
Have since wondered if any western
wanderer spotted, near Seaman’s Hut, a
little pile of the snowy-white ash they
“If you listen to us, Karl, YOU’LL soon learn good English."
use outback for whitewash, and pondered
how the blazes it got there.
# * * ♦
“Bert”: With his battered hat pulled
down over his eyes, a rain-soaked cigar-
ette drooping limply over his lip and a
cornsack draped round his shoulders, he
shook his head when we asked if .the left
fork of the road just ahead led to Burrell
Creek. “Dunno,” he replied ionelessly.
“Well, is that the way to Rookhurst?” I
came again, pointing to the right one;
again “I dunno.” Despairingly I asked
if the road leading off to the right a few
bundled yards back would take us to
Giro. At his third “Dunno,” Ted, poking
his head out from the back-seat, rasped
savagely, “Don’t you know anything,
mate?” “Yair,” muttered the bedraggled
one, looking up for the first time. “I
know I ain’t lorst!”
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Fear may be the main
force in making a horse buck, as well as
bad handling, but many buck just for the
fun of it. The first rough-’un I ever
tackled —for the sake of the experience,
being very young—was a six-year-old
chestnut mare on Artesian Downs (N.Q.).
She was a lovely thing to look at, full
of fire like most chestnuts, and loudly
snorted defiance when I got her in the
round yard to saddle up. She pelted the
saddle for a start, then pelted me. Got
aboard again, took her a mile or so down
the horse-paddock; when we got back
to the yard she pelted me again. That
mare bucked every morning for the three
weeks I rode her, and sometimes she’d
have a go in the middle of the morning,
or late in the evening on the way home.
In between, she was a perfect stock-horse,
easy-gaited, well-mouthed, and a good
free mover. But you never knew when
that head would go down, and she could
do just as good a job at the end of the
day as at the beginning—no simple pig-
roots, but hard bucking. On the same
station we had a brown gelding so tract-
able he’d follow a man like a dog; his
rider would sometimes do circus stunts
such as running beside him and jumping
in and out of the saddle. That horse
invariably bucked every morning for the
first few days of each spell of work, and
was always likely to turn on an act at
any time thereafter —yet the man who
worked him treated him like a pet. Other
BIACJS
horses of the same age on the same
station, which therefore had been handled
by the same horsebreaker, and had, in
their sire, the same ancestry, could be
spelled for six months and yet never
hump their backs on the coldest morning
when they started work again. And
don’t tell me it was the rider —both the
cuddies I’ve quoted were notorious for
bucking no matter who was in the saddle.
* * * *
“Edquist”: The joker who told
“C.A.L.” (B. 4/2/’53) about the heroic
rescue from the winze made a great yarn
of it, except that: (1) Anyone crazy
enough to beat the regulations and work
in a winze without a ladder as an alterna-
tive means of escape deserves to be blown
to bits; (2) anyone smart enough to light
nine fuses in a winze instead of the regu-
lation three also deserves to be atomised ;
(3) if the Yugoslav on top was “blinded
and choked” by fumes from fuses burn-
ing 100 ft. below, the man who lit them
must have been affected beyond any
necessity to haul him up quickly—actually
the winchman wouldn’t even smell the
fuses at that time and distance. I
thought “C.A.L.” was going to say the
herculean Slav pulled his bird-brained
mate up in order to tell him to snatch
the fuses out and toss them with their
attached detonators into the kibble, or
to lend him a pocketknife (or shovel) to
cut them, and then lowered (or dropped)
him down again; it’s what he should
have done.
* * » ♦
\
“Wippegong”: The new utility has
been accepted with unconditional approval
by every meniber of the family, except
the magpie that builds above the cow-
shed, He spent quite a fair time in
the gum under which the vehicle is
parked during the day before he dropped
on to the bonnet to sing his daily duet
with that other maggie in the wind-
screen ; and even then the song was
more fitful than usual —the other bird
seemed to feel the same about it, too.
A long, thoughtful pause, then he set off
for his customary fossicking session
around the truck; but here the disturb-
ance was worse. Beside the old truck he
had the place to himself, but now an
aggressive magpie in perfect plumage and
fighting trim glared at him from the shiny
cap of each wheel. He’d swagger off a
few steps and start feeding, but maggies
aren’t good at leaving problems alone
and it was never long before he was
back at a wheel, with now and then a
quick check-up to see if his regular
cobber was still in the windscreen. He’s
pretty worried, but it will be all right
soon. We’re carting firewood tomorrow,
and the rains of last week on that back
track should fix the reflections on the
hub-caps, to say nothing of the more
furtive wraiths that flitted across the new
duco.
* * * *
“Villefair”: I agree with “Tamana”
that a hen budgerigar generally nips a
little harder than a cock (B. 4/ 3/ ’53),
but to use that means of distinguishing
the sexes would be getting close to cook-
ing a pig by the ancient Chinese method.
The budgie is amongst the easiest of
birds to sex: no matter what the color
of the plumage all hens can be distin-
guished by their brown wattles. I won’t
argue about what domestic agreements
are reached by nesting budgerigars in
their natural state, but I’ve bred some
hundreds in aviaries, and never known a
cock-bird to “do a turn at sitting.”
However, the old man will regurgitate
food to the mother so that she may pass
it on to the family, and he generally
feeds the youngsters for three or four
days after they have left the nest. But,
after all, birds are like humans: there
are good parents and bad. Some will
neglect, even murder, their babies, and
others will adopt the maltreated young-
sters and bring them up with unbeliev-
able devotion. Recently I had a hen die
with a young brood in the nest; the
father took over, mothered the chicks,
fed them and reared all five.
* * * *
“Vingter”: Displaying the Papuan
war-shield for the Boy Scouts at Grey-
stanes (B. 21 /1/’53) recalls the historic
war-club heirloom of chiefs of the warrior
tribe of Tutu Island, Torres Straits. A
perfectly smoothed stone disk mounted
on a 30in. stock of tulu wood which
was secured to the wielder’s wrist by a
thong of sharkskin, the club when I saw
it in 1934 was the treasured pos-
session of old Maino, last scion of the
Blood Royal of Tutu, whose people have
now shifted to Yam Island because of
failure of water-supplies on their original
home island. To Maino the club had
come down from his martial forebear, the
mighty Kebisu, who carried it when he
led the war-canoes of Tutu against
Captain Bligh’s crew, and the doughty
performance of whose dusky cohorts
caused Bligh to log Tutu as “Warrior
Island.” Strangely enough, the descend-
ants of the warriers of Tutu, though
powerful physically, are conspicuous
for mirth and not mayhem. The club,
which last went to war when Maino
carried it in his capacity as native aide
to Sir William MacGregor during his
“Merrie England” cruises against the
raiding Tugeri from Dutch New
Guinea, would be a collector’s treasure-
piece.
* * ♦ *
“Mat’s Mate”; With 14 pence between
us we dropped our swags on the river at
Murchison (Vic.) and went across the
street to a pub. On the veranda an excited
bloke rushed at us, grabbed Mat by
one hand and cried, “Ain’t you the blokes
was up at Narromine shearin’ before
last? Come an’ have a drink.” He
rushed us to the bar and we rushed a
couple into ourselves. “Cripes,” he said,
“I been hangin’ round here three days
an’ never see a soul I know. Have an-
other.” We had another. “How’s old
Narromine?”
he went on.
“Wish I was
back there
now. You
can’t beat
them Bogan towns. ’Member Dutchy
an’ Snow an’ the long bloke from Euaba-
long? What a team! We better have
another.” This went on for about an
hour, by which time we’d had seven or
nine and had to lay the bloke on the
veranda to sleep it off. “We never saw
that coot before,” I marvelled. “What
made y’ let him think we had?” “Wake
up to y’self, mate,” Mat chortled. “Did
that bloke Moses try t’ stop the rock
flowin’ when it started spoutin’ like it
did?”
SHAG RIVER TIME
The slow brown water writhes, the taniwha
who kennels on this antique shingle-race
snuffles at banks where once his leaping roar
carved the great valley, moulded the plateau’s
face.
And fat sheep nibble
among the boulders where
rnoa and hunter, tussock and ice-age pebble
sift down through strata of death’s hemisphere.
But threading farm and road for modern miles
water and spirit gauge their works of land,
patterning skies long henfce with strange profiles:
only the Traveller, sun behind his hand,
far from any town’s
pedantic rule of chime
cries, “It is late!” when roselit fingerbones
show half-past-fossil by Shag River Time.
Calm under dancing osiers as a pool,
hawk’s wing mirrored in a crystal eye,
and the rising lark’s diminishing brown spool
as she unwinds her lilt from grass to sky;
so douce and leisurely
and by such moments lulled,
river and spirit dream the earth-to-be.
Man works apace but he has heaven to build.
n.z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
BLACK SWANS GOING OVER AT
NIGHT
What fluting musical cries from overhead?
What leaves of sound by a great silence shed?
What sweet word in some lost language said?
Secrets the sphinx of midnight will not yield.
This follow-my-leader, is it some star concealed
Flight of glad souls to some Elysian field?
The moon’s round countenance, low down in
the west,
Looks with some envy (they being greatly blest)
On these wild wayfarers, speeding to their rest.
They make no ordered marches like her own . . .
Silence once more; into the vast unknown
Into all space the triumphant ones are blown.
Not the black swans at all, it seems to me
However falsely, but great spirits flung tree
Of life and death into eternity.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIBL.


TOLLEY'S
SPECIAL
TST
'M.li'it'll'
HOSMTAI
BRANDY
m
n't-i
OUTH AUSTRALIA
ESTABLISHED 1358
SPECIAL HOSPJI
ft*- ITOIT. ST.'ptTHS.
Sasr^il? 8 * TOLLEV. SCOTT * TOI.HV- 1
Aust
r *Ha
fin
es t Br a
ndy
for
oeariy
°ontur
T5T.20.,2
DISTRIBUTORS? TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
Business. Rollery. etc.
The Market Lull
With income-tax assessments
now arriving, the sharemarkets
continue in quiet mood. Where
rather large parcels of scrip in
a particular concern have been
cleared up there has been a
tendency for the stock to
strengthen again (as in the case
of Swans, Sydney), and an in-
creased dividend has been
acknowledged by a higher
buyer’s bid, as a rule (Tooheys,
for example). But elsewhere the
sharemarket has been generally
slack, though without a very
pronounced downward trend.
The fall in tungsten prices
overseas has taken a good deal
of the starch out of quotations
for scheelite shares, which until
a few weeks ago were among
the most lively of mining issues.
Even the King Island concern,
with its prices guaranteed until
1956 and 1957, has slipped down
to 345. The more speculative
concerns—Pioneer, Ajax, Rye
Park, Tungsten Consolidated —
have dropped even more. Aber-
foyle Tin, one of the choicest
tungsten-tin investments, has
fallen back to 38s. This co.’s
shilling shares sold as high as
445. 6d. in January.
The weakness in the metal
market has had some small effect
on the level of investment stocks.
But, on the whole, industry is
doing better now than it was six
months ago. Even some sections
of the worsted industry, hit badly
by the’ slump in the textile
market, are reporting improved
results. In the wholesale soft-
goods trade Sargood Gardiner
has maintained its interim div.
at Z p.c. And Tooheys has re-
turned to an 8 p.c. basis again.
Australian beer sales in Decem-
ber were a record.
The rayon industry has been
producing at near a record rate
lately. Though there has been a
steep drop in the output of cot-
ton yarn, up to the end of last
year the canvas and duck
(weaving) ends of the industry
were very busy. In January
there was a falling-off. At a
particularly low level at present
is the Commonwealth produc-
tion of motor-tyres; output for
November, December and
January was only about 40 p.c,
of the volume a year earlier. Be-
cause of a cool summer, ice-
cream consumption is well be-
low the level established in the
1951-52 summer. Pig-iron and
steel output continues at record
level, and cement-production is
still expanding. Electric motors
for domestic appliances and the
like are being produced at about
the same monthly rate as a year
ago, and much faster than in
August and September,
Nearly everything today is
being bought as people require
the particular article —provided
they have the money. There is
very little buying-to-put-away as
there was in the artificial period
that ended in 1951. Business
today has to condition itself to
immediate consumer - demand,
which, after all, is the only
sound basis on which to carry
on trade. With the passing of
time genuine demand will in-
crease. But nearly all business
promises to become more com-
petitive, which is the principal
reason why management and
asset-quality needs to be studied
very closely when making an
investment. There are still a
number of high-quality ord.
shares yielding more than 6 p.c.
available on the principal
Exchanges.
The State of Maoriland
If prosperity forecasts by the
Prime Minister haven’t always
been borne out by the trend of
subsequent events, Mr. Holland
seemed to be on firmer ground
when he made a “state-of-the-
nation” survey early in March,
after three years of fairly violent
ups and downs in New Zealand.
These pep-talks, of which the
most recent have been delivered
at Chamber of Commerce
dinners, sound all right to
. Maorilanders who haven’t long
memories, and the latest was
easily the best, with a more con-
vincing ring about it than the
soothing words of the P.M. a
year earlier, just before the eco-
nomic storm broke in March,
1952. On that occasion Maori-
landers were rather badly misled
when they were told there was a
good chance of getting through
the import-boom and run on
exchange with nothing worse
than a few restrictions “which
wouldn’t hurt anybody.”
All except the Socialists are
wiser now. Added to this there’s
the feeling that if N.Z. could
make such a quick recovery
from the stress and strain of the
past twelvemonth it could face
up boldly to whatever might be
ahead.
Nearly three years ago Mr.
Holland, then an inexperienced
'hand at the helm, made his first
attempt —a rather clumsy one —
to throw off controls by cutting
subsidies while inflation was still
flowing strongly, and this was
followed a year later by prema-
ture lifting of exchange and
import controls, while infla-
tionary pressure was still very
real and M.L. was reeling under
the blow of the three-month
waterfront and shipping strike.
Although decontrol came before
the strike the effects came after-
wards, when M.L, was caught
with its economic defences down
in a time of radical changes in
world trade.
That experience was partly a
costly reckoning for the mistakes
and industrial strife of the
previous year and partly the re-
sult of external buffeting similar
to Australia’s. With the storm
now past and the barometer
steadier than at any time since
the National Government took
over, Mr. Holland has been
telling Maorilanders that they
have the ball at their feet —
barring a hot war or a relapse
in sterling, both of which he
rules out. But M.L. will have to
watch its spending and be pre-
pared to work to a carefully
planned order of priorities for
ail capital projects.
In the P.M.’s view, too many
people in N.Z. seem to think it is
their privilege to ask the Gov-
ernment for anything they want,
and in the next breath they de-
mand tax-relief; they want to
force the pace in capital-develop-
ment without counting the cost,
and it’s time businessmen set an
example to the rahk-and-file by
“marrying” ideas on how tax-
*money should be spent with a
realistic appreciation of where
the money is to come from.
Forty-nine out of 50 State de-
partments are among those
telling the Government what is
desirable, and only one (Finance)
is saying what is possible. It’s
high time for a down-to-earth
attitude, coupled with good
management and hard work.
Importers have taken a good
many raps from the P.M. over
the past year, and are still get-
ting them. Although they had
their fling, a costly one, in 1952,
and should have learnt a lesson
for life, they have been lodging
applications for imports this year
at more than double the rate
N.Z. can finance out of the pro-
ceeds of record dairy-produce
and meat exports and a wool
cheque which might be second
only to that in the boom year.
Holland has told them straight
that they wouldn’t have a hope
of paying for the stuff if they
were allowed to buy it, they
wouldn’t have the space to store
it, and they couldn’t sell it be-
cause the public wouldn’t have
the money to buy it. If traders
would play the game by limiting
their demands to £l7O million
for the current year (£3O million
less than the annual average for
the past couple of years), the
P.M. would give them the lot
and would take off the controls
tomorrow.
A busy industry in Australia
since the business setback of 18
months ago- has been biscuit-
manufacturing. Biscuit factories
absorbed many of the girls put
off from the textile trade, and in
1951-52 the output was 150 mil-
lion pounds, compared with 130
million pounds in 1950-51. The
monthly averages for those years
were 12.5 million pounds and
10.8 million pounds. For the
three months to Sept. 30 last the
monthly average was 12.7 mil-
lion pounds; in the December
quarter, 12.1 million pounds.
Biscuits of all brands are now
fairly easily obtainable. Whilst
popular brands of biscuits are
selling better than at any time in
Australia’s history, second-rate
products may now be meeting
stiffer competition.
* * * •
Though the directors of
Dangar, Gedye and Malloch
(Sydney) are optimistic about
results for the full year (which
ends on June 30), trading for the
half to December 31 was on a
reduced scale owing to restricted
imports. (The co. handles
Lister shearing-machines and
the like.) No interim div. is
being paid. Last term the interim
was 4 p.c. and final 8| p.c. out
of profits aggregating 34.2 p.c.
on ord. capital. Last sale of the
ords. was at 425.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
I’ve just been reading of an effort to stimulate tea
consumption in that home of the coffee pot, the United
States of America,
At a conference in New York, delegates from
India, Ceylon, Indonesia and the United States have
agreed to contribute to a joint fund to be used in
telling Americans of the aromatic virtues of tea.
Now, if there is one thing on which Australians
need no persuasion, it is that! Tea has been one of
our national institutions from the start. It has gone
into the ration of men who cleared the outer tracks.
It is brewed in billies under the trees. It is proffered
in friendship in all society.
One fact that came out pf the New York
conference was that the United States imported
100 million lb. of tea last year.
That was about twice the quantity Australia
imported. But, then, the population of the United
States is almost 20 times that of Australia.
. As a nation of tea-drinkers we are fourth in the
world. Great Britain has the largest consumption per
head. Then comes New Zealand, then Ireland.
I suppose it doesn’t matter very much in the
modern world whether the Chinese claim to the dis-
covery of tea about 2700 years b.c. is the ultimate in
its legend. The only importance I can see for Aus-
tralia in its introduction to England by the East India
Company in the 17th Century is that it brought the
habit down to us through the early settlers.
And I would be the last to quarrel with our good
friends, the Americans, if they prefer to drink it iced
while we sip it steaming. Each to his custom.
But what I do find interesting is that tea is one
of the tropical crops for which some of our northlands
are eminently suited.
I know of at least one case, that of a Dutch
migrant near Innisfail, in which the experimental grow-
ing of tea is going on in Queensland. Perhaps there
are others. Whether tea could be a profitable com-
mercial crop in Australia in competition with imports
from cheap-labor countries is an economic question
I’ll not consider here.
My thought at the moment is chiefly of the
possibilities in New Guinea. An expert with long
experience in tea-growing in Ceylon has just reported
to the Federal Government at Canberra that large
areas of flat land in New Guinea will produce much
more tea than now comes from Government and
private plantations in the territory.
That is tremendously important to Australia. New
Guinea’s potential in food and fabric crops must be
developed. It is our responsibility before the world —
and no estimate of the Australian future will be
complete that does not count in the richness of New
Guinea.
H.Hastings Deering


I
'IrT
a
in
■■
m
TO PUT AUSTRALIA'S SHEET STEEL
THROUGH THE MILL
This is the motor that will
drive the largest Gold
Reduction Sheet Steel Mill
south of the Equator.
Should the need arise, the
tremendous output of this
Mill would contribute on an
unpredictable scale to de-
fence requirements. In the
meantime, the new plant
will be hailed by manufac-
turers of motor car and
truck bodies, refrigerators,
washing machines, ranges
and countless other domestic
appliances. With adequate
supplies of suitable raw
steel available, it will help
step-up the flow of these
commodities to the waiting
public.
a
a
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT’S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
• •
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited Genera I Sales
Agents. SYDNEY: 33 Mac-
quarie Place. MELBOURNE:
70-84 Clarendon Street, South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13
Grenfell Street. BRISBANE:
307-311 Queen Street.
FREMANTLE: Corner of
Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John
Lysaght's Bristol Works
Limited.
CR3A-52
i am a Manufacturer
g
7-
s
£
Success in my business requires a combination of
sound technical and financial management.
I always consult my A.N.Z. Bank Manager
concerning financial matters and
have found his advice and experience invaluable.'*
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
amt m 377
■ 7WJUHMTWA * fMWf sfiMasHW
TWA TWA TWA mtWAi
fTWA MMTWAMsstTWA MW TWA M TWA-
TWA
TRANS WOO ID AIRIIHiS
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super
to carry you in luxury from San Francisco or
Los Angeles to New York en route to London's
Constellations
y^otow^uyK/
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
• Most spacious planes in
commercial operation—
-744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers, plus
8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
9 Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on application
to any approved travel Agent, or
TWA, Kembla Building, 58
Margaret St., Sydney. 8X1219.
range—3,2so miles cruis-
ing at 20,000 feet.
9 Pressurised and air-con-
ditioned cabins give low
altitude comfort.
Outstanding cuisine.
ft***
twa TWAsmAmsmfisrwatatw&etWAaßmAmtwamtwammiii
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
iwwa mMTvmMmrwa mamma
mamma m
SCC.6
dfg
df
THE
ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Open
from 27th March
to
, DAYS
7tb April
8 NIGHTS
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
How are we to deal with the
sharp increase in crimes of
violence? And, more important
still, how are we to protect the
helpless from unprovoked
attack? These two problems
weigh very heavily on the public
conscience at the present time,
particularly as no simple or
ready solution is in sight.
This kind of offence shows a
30 per cent, increase over the last
five years, and the registered
annual figures are nearly treble
those for 1938 (6891 compared
with 2277), What is so disturb-
ing to the authorities is the
heinous and quite incorrigible
outlook of the type of criminal.
He is invariably young—often a
mere boy—and appears to be
motivated more by the false
sense of power that springs from
coshing a defenceless old person
over the head than by his actual
felonious gains. And, when
brought to book, he is usually
found to be inflated with
arrogance and defiantly unre-
pentant.
It is a sorry condition, yet one
that must owe something to the
loosened fabric of our modern
society. The one sure remedy,
as we are repeatedly told, is a
stable home background, with
united parents who are law-
abiding and God-fearing. But
that cannot be created by legis-
lation. Another cause is that
youths earn too much money
too soon and have not been
educated, by ?wise precept, to
take care of it.. A strong opinion
is also held that, in order to
satisfy the morbid curiosity of
the general (and law-abiding)
public, the more sensational
newspapers give undue promin-
ence to “exclusives” which have
crime or notoriety as their back-
ground.
The Flogging Bill was rejected
by the Commons, largely because
of the Home Secretary’s cogent
anpeal for considered recogni-
tion of the claims of penal
reform. Since flogging has
proved to be no deterrent and
the bill would have set the clock
back 50 years, there were few
regrets among those whose
responsibility is to deal with
crime.
The Home Secretary was quick
to follow with his alternative —
what is known generally as the
“Cosh Bill.” This has gone, not
without a good many misgiv-
ings, for a second reading. Its
broad purpose is to “cope with
the cosji-boy before he uses his
cosh,” but its application is
somewhat less clear. A suspected
person carrying an offensive
weapon (which might be as
seemingly innocuous as a milk-
bottle or a cricket-bat) would
have to explain his purpose and.
satisfy his questioners that he
had no. felonious intent.
Party Talk
The Government’s stock con-
tinues to rise perceptibly, if not
exactly to soar. Sir Maxwell
Fyfe is the latest of Mr.
Churchill’s Ministers to show
conspicuously how well he is on
top of his job. It is a long time
since a Home Secretary was so
hard-pressed. In a matter of
weeks he has had to cope with
the disastrous floods and two
capital sentences (of which one
was especially controversial) as
well as the bills already
mentioned.
Mr. Eden, who literally has
the cares of the world on his
shoulders, is not so thick-skinned
as to dismiss his critics with a
shr,ug. Nor is he capable of put-
ting self before duty. Which is
only to say that the unease and
uncertainty oyer the future of
the Sudan have in no sense
diminished his prestige at
Westminster.
A new approach to industry at
factory level by way of exten-
sion of the “Workers’ Charter”
has met with a decisive snub.
The Government sought to
impress the factory-hand by a
three-point declaration of good
intentions —joint consultation,
better incentives and promotion
and a contract of service—but
the unions were stone-cold. The
project of double-shift working
during the day-time, by which
it is hoped to make more
economical use of plant, has had
a warmer reception.
On the other side, disunity,
class-consciousness and pon-
derous spring-cleaning mark the
awkwafd posturings of the
Labor party. Mr. Sevan’s
“Third Force” crusading is no
little embarrassment. Mr.
Attlee’s refusal to co-operate in
all-party discussions on House
of Lords reform was forced
upon him against his better judg-
ment by the class-warriors, who
fear the disappearance of a
handy platform bogy. And the
Labor-party executive has made
itself look silly over its latest
move for “solidarity.”
Not long ago the Bevanites
had three sources of strength:
their own “party within a
party”; their so-called brains-
trusts ; iind their weekly journal
“Tribune.’’ The first has, by
mutual agreement, ceased to
exist. And now the executive
have frowned disapprovingly
upon the second, although with-
out actually banning these public
meetings; but the inference is
that non-Bevanites will hesitate
to take part and thus the contro-
versial nature of the trusts will
be impaired. Thirdly, the urgent
need for an official Socialist
“weekly” has suddenly become
paramount, and financial back-
ing from the wealthy trade-
unions sought. Moreover, there
appears also to be a vital reason
for the new journal to have, the
same publication - day as
“Tribune.” Even that Tory
Press baron. Lord Kemsley, was
more generous than this, for he
never proceeded with a libel
action that might easily have
sunk “Tribune” (which, inci-
dentally, partly depends for its
meagre revenue upon the brains-
trusts). /
Bonanza
Gold-diggers of both sexes
provide the main interest in
“Paint Your Wagon” (Her
Majesty’s Theatre). The men
are husky, bushy, lusty old-
timers who have struck a
fabulous vein of gold in the
wastes of Northern California
in ’53. Their mushroom com-
munity, like others in the modern
American stage fashion, is so
preponderantly male as to lead
to psycho-pathetic complications.
Particularly here in Rumson
City, where the only female is
the ’teenage daughter of
Rumson himself, a benevolent
despot whose only distinguish-
able emblem is an outsize
Stetson.
The diggings prosper, and, in
time for the curtain to the first
act, a troupe of come-hither
lovelies, euphemistically referred
to as “fandangos,” arrives com-
plete with French madame and
the wardrobe from the Folies
Bergere. Thenceforward —until
the vein dramatically runs out —
boors and belles combine with
gregarious fury to stir the
interior of Jake’s Palace into a
mad, noisy and rather untidy
scramble. But the men have
trained voices, and obviously the
only kind of bar to have affected
the girls’ formative years was at
the school of ballet; so that the
result, if dizzy, is at least well-
executed.
Bobby Howes, after a three-
years’ absence, hgs returned to
the West End to play the
opulent but feckless Rumson,
His whimsicality and lovable-
ness are in no sense disguised by
a “them-thar-purties” accent of
the Deep South, and he does not
seem quite at ease in the part.
Perhaps he is overawed by the
searing vitality of the production,
which is so, so different from the
innocent simplicity of “Mr.
Cinders.” Sally Ann, daughter
to him both on and off the stage,
puts over a difficult characterisa-
tion with effortless sureness as
the gauche Jennifer. Ken
Cantril’s Mexican waif-hero has
the right kind of insouciant
charm as well as a baritone voice
of exceptional beauty.
The artistic resources behind
this play are stupendous and too
numerous to detail. All the vast
“know-how” of American
creators and British interpreters
somehow contrives to deceive
the audience into believing that
the material sounds and looks a
shade better than it really is.
Best of all are the. quieter
moments between the uproarious
capers when poignancy and
genuine pathos give an edge to
the comedy.


am.-*-.,
ss
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., 8.D.; Thomas B.
Heffer; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Managers C. B. R. Cowdcry.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
Experienced Management
at Agricultural and
Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company,
lias a wide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides efficient manage-
ment, safeguards the interests of dependents, and provides ample security for the performance
of Trusts at a fixed and moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
g
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TRW .35
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Repco, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
Sept. Profit, f-t —Dividends Reserves.
SO, £ p.c. £ £
Combined nominal reserves. Sept., 1943 73,014
1944 .. 36,879 10 30,000 79,893
1945 .. 41,900 10 30,000 91,793
1946 .. 47,087 10 30,000 108,880
Premiums on new shares, £BO,OOO .. 188,880
1947 .. 50,977 10 80,000 209,857
Premiums on new shares, £150,000 .. 359,857
1948 . . 102,202 12J 76,250 385,809
Premiums on new shares, £179,650 ~ 565,359
June 30,
1949 .. 142,136 12£ 95,250 612,245
Net share premiums, £110,375 .. 722,620
Intangibles written off, £24,841 .. 697,779
1950 .. 188,518 12J 108,994 777,303
Share premiums, £187,682 .. .. 964,985
1951 . . 262,672 15 155,255 1,072,402
Share premiums, £298,736 .. .. 1,371,138
1952 . . 302,239 15 218,237 1,455,140
Reserves shown are subject to intangible assets
(now £804,767).
Repco’s issue of unsecured convertible
notes last December (£1 million-odd) re-
duced shareholders’ prospects of partici-
pating in capital-expansion for some time.
Share prices have been adjusted accord-
ingly, and now at 455. (565. 6d. a year
ago), the £1 units yield 6.6 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis.
A giant in the tractor and motor-
spares, accessory and repair trade, Repco
was formed in 1937, when three estab-
lished concerns owned by R. G. Russell
were taken over. With an increase of
almost 100 p.c. in the number of vehicles
on Australian roads the company has
made significant strides since 1945. In
this period 13 subsidiary and associated
concerns have been added to the net-
work, which now includes:
A. X. Richardson and Sons Pty.; Paton’s
Brake Replacements Pty.; Precision Metal
Stampings Pty.; Russell Manufacturing Co.
Pty.; Repco Bearing Co. Pty.; P. J. Taylor
(Newcastle) Pty.; Repco Universal Joints
Pty.; Specialised Engineering Pty.; Kirk-
stall-Repco, Ltd.; and Payen, Byrne and
Blackford Pty.; all of which manufacture
automotive engine parts, including ring-
gears, brake parts, oil-seals, pistons, rings,
valve-guides, gaskets, bearings, universal
joints, axles and allied drop-forgings.
Replacement Parts Pty. and Replacement
Parts (Tas.) Pty., with 12 branches in Vic-
toria and Tasmania, look after the distribut-
ing and engineering side in conjunction with
Auto Grinding Co. Pty. Brenco Pty.,
Warren and Brown Pty. and Replex Pty.
manufacture tools, machines and testing-
equipment, while Repco Export Co. looks
after the overseas trade.
Business has been concentrated mostly
in the southern States, but is now being
extended into N. S. Wales through P. J.
Taylor (Newcastle), and to Queensland
through Payen, Byrne and Blackford Pty.
In this company Repco holds a half-
interest with Engineering Components,
Ltd., of England, and with Kirkstall
Forge Engineering, Ltd., also of Britain,
a similar interest is held in Kirkstall-
Repco, Ltd.
To acquire these interests and provide
working funds the co.’s issued capital
rose by £1,285,166 over the last seven
years, and £1,363,347 in share-premiums
and undistributed profits have been added
to reserves. At £1,455,140 (subject to
£304,767 intangibles) these strongly sup-
port the £1,585,166 paid capital, which is
all in ords. It includes 37,245 units paid
to Is. each.
Dividends averaged 9.6 p.c. for the
first decade, followed by three years at
12} p.c., and 15 p.c. in the last two terms.
Gross turnover is not disclosed, but,
after allowing £286,366 (up £46,678) for
taxation and £55,423 (down £61,191) for
depreciation, net earnings last term were
£39,567 higher than in 1951. On average
capital the earning-rate fell to 20.8 p.c.,
compared with 25.3, 21.6, 18.7 and 16.7
p.c. back to 1948. There was a margin
of £84,002 after repeating the 15 p.c.
dividend.
Over the year £611,280 was added to
stocks, £289,260 to freeholds and plant,
and shares in associated concerns rose by
£160,000;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £938,450 £1,035,033 £1,585,166
Bank overdraft .. 167,506 715,541 668,339
Creditors .. .. 233,699 398,954 414,056
Tax provision .. 97,323 244,632 391,593
Staff funds .. .. 24,483 25,654 26,074
Final divs 70,384 103,503 118,887
Freeholds .. .. 300,761 697,716 770,056
Plant .. .. 409,672 568,969 785,879
Stocks .. ~ 799,246 1,081,914 1,693,194
Debtors . . .. 499,653 896,357 896,668
Shares in assoc, co. 40,000 200,000
Cash .. .. 6,763 5,996 8,691
Intangibles .. 293,053 304,767 304,767
The money came from undistributed
profits, £825,199 in new capital and share-
premiums and £15,102 from creditors,
out of which £47,202 was repaid to the
bank. Working capital (£979,604) rose
by £483,621 over the year.
In the car-maintenance industry busi-
ness will remain brisk regardless of any
decline in new-vehicle sales, and for
Repco there appears to be no slackening
of its expansion programme. Since the
close of accounts 156,958 shares have
been issued in connection with the associ-
ated companies mentioned and £1,066,500
gathered in 6 p.c. notes.
Convertible to ordinary shares at a
10s. premium on December 1, 1956, or
redeemable at par a year later, this issue
largely confines prospects for ord. share-
holders to a higher div.-rate. As average
funds returned 11.6 p.c. in profits last
term, and only 6 p.c. has to be paid on
the notes, they should, in present circum-
stances, earn more than their keep and
help div. prospects in the long run.
F- J. Walker, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
£> & £, £,
1951.. 169,402 9 p.c. = 90,000 79,402 303,898
1952.. 184,997 10 „ „ 100,000 84,997 388,895
* Subject to difference between book- and par-value
of shares purchased ( £214,482 at June 80, 1952.)
Since 450,000 10s. stock-units in this
meat-products concern were offered to
the public in 1951 there has been a
steady improvement in earnings and
dividend. The memorandum on which
the stock was sold spoke of
a prospective 1} p.c. distribution.
Actually, for the year to June 30, 1951,
a 9 p.c. distribution was made, of which
4 p.c. came from tax-free reserves. For
the year to June, 1952, there was an
interim of 4 p.c, (tax-free) and a final
of 4 p.c., with a bonus of 2 p.c., making
10 p.c. For the year which will close
on June 30 next an interim of 5 p.c.
tax-free has just been declared (payable
on April 30). If a final similar to last
year’s is made the total for the term
will be 11 p.c. Interims are declared
after two-thirds of the financial year has
run.
Cum 6d. dividend, the 10s, stock-units
are priced at 19s. 3d. (against a lowest
of 14s. 6d. last year), at which figure the
yield would be 5.7 p.c. on an 11 p.c.
div. basis. Tax-free reserves represented
11 p.c. on capital last balance-day. Of
this, 5 p.c. is now being distributed.
The co. is a trading and holding con-
cern controlling a group of nine associ-
ated enterprises engaged in the meat and
allied industries, including cold-storage,
throughout N. S. Wales. The subsidiaries
are:
Australian Chilling and Freezing Co.,
Ltd.; Australian Wool and Produce Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Australian Natural Gut Manu-
facturing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Commercial
Freezing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Hunter River
Meat Preserving Co. Pty., Ltd.; Metro-
politan Meat Co. Pty., Ltd.; Sydney Meat
Preserving Co., Ltd.; Walker Trading Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Waterside Cold Stores Pty., Ltd.
The combined businesses have a very
large turnover, and results are subject to
conditions in the pastoral industry, with
which they have close associations in
the killing of stock (at Auburn and
Aberdeen), for the local and export meat
trade and the treatment at Botany
(Sydney) of sheepskins. There are eight
rabbit-chilling works, and other offshoots
make smallgoods, casings, butter, ice,
etc., as well as gut and other by-products.
The whole F. J. Walker organisation is
closely interwoven and self-contained.
In the term to June 30 last there was
a reverse in some of the by-products
businesses, owing to falling prices (a
world-wide -characteristic), and wool
prices were down. But the drop in wool
brought graziers back to fat-lamb-raising,
which had been somewhat neglected in
the wool-boom years, and increased sup-
plies were available. Also the British
Government meat-contract prices were
raised by an average of about 2}d. a
pound.
After charging £28,234 for depreciation
(down £8866), £24,158 for long-service
leave, and providing £153,651 (up £5867)
for income tax, the Walker group showed
a net profit of £185,129 in its last term,
after allowing £540 for outside interests.
After writing-off £132 from intangibles,
the net figure was £184,997, equal to
18.5 p.c. on capital, compared with
16.9 p.c. in the preceding year. The
10 p.c. distribution was well covered.
The co. was “able to trade at constantly
reducing values” without loss.
During the current term seasons have
been exceptionally good, and the meat-
works, which are highly efficient, have
been busier than ever. Prices are gener-
ally stable or firmer, and costs have been
checked. Labor conditions are easier,
and output per man per hour has im-
proved in most industries. The increased
interim div. for F. J. Walker apparently
reflects conditions in its particular section
of industry.
For an organisation with a turnover
exceeding £5 million a year its balance-
sheet figures are very compact:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. 1 J 157,748 117,750
P. and I. account f J ’ ( 166,066 271,145
Outside interests.. 6,972 6,762
Creditors . . 82,460 101,434 172,396
Tax provision .. 138,182 178,220 171,269
Final dividend .. 21,575 90,000 60,000
£1,520,079 £1,699,230 £1,798,134
Freehold and lease- _
holds .. .. 622,966 622,567 642.972
Plant, machinery,
etc 354.221 354,283 356,710
Stock .. .. 127.380 191,586 800.190
Debtors .. . • 110,917 140,246 204,057
Cash and invest-
menta .. .. 52,106 174,929 79,723
Intangibles .. 252.489 215,619 214,482
£1,520,079 £1,699,230 £1,798,134
Main movements last year were an in-
crease of £108,604 (to £300,190) in
stocks, £63,811 (to £204,051) in debtors,
a reduction of £95,206 (to £79,723) in
cash and investments, and a rise of
£70,962 (to £172,396) in creditors, etc.
There was no overdraft at any of the
last three balance-dates; on each occa-
sion the cosy had a considerable credit
balance with the bank. Considering the
nature and scope of the business, it all
points to a very strong trading and
financial position.
Deducting net premiums (£214,482)
paid for shares in subsidiary cos., net
tangible assets are equal to 11s. 9d. per
10s, stock-unit. But including the pre-
miums, which appear to be well justified
by trading results, the backing rises to
13s. lid.
Australian Stock Breeders Co.
With meat markets guaranteed under
the U.K. agreement, which also makes
allowance for cost-fluctuations through
periodical price-review, and, through
sterling invoice-prices, guards against
currency-depreciation, it is mainly con-
siderations of a company’s production-
potential which concerns the investor in
the meat industry. Australian Stock
Breeders’ experience over the last decade:
f— 1 Dividends N To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1943.. 26,216 6.2 Nil 6,649 19,567 229,744
1944.. 17,330 6.2 Nil 6,649 10,681 219,063
Pref. arrears passed to contingent
liabilities account, £106,563 .. 112,500
1945.. 15,264 6.2 Nil 6,649 8,615 103,885
Loss.
1946.. 14,588 Nil Nil Nil 118,473
Profit.
1947.. 13,401 6.2 Nil 6,649 6,752 111,721
Written off capital, £109,165 .. 2,556
From inner reserves (net), £2556...
Reserves.
1948.. 9,961 6.2 2.5 9,378 583 583
1949.. 13,131 6.2 5.5 12,654 477 1,060
1950.. 15,791 7 7 15,149 642 1,702
1951.. 14,115 6.2 5 12,108 2.007 3,709
1952.. 9,299 6.2 4 11,016 1.992
• Pref. div. arrears were included in deficit until
written off in 1948.
For this beef-producer seasonal con-
ditions largely determine its output and
ultimately its profits. The runs are
located in the far-west and nor’-west of
Queensland, where sporadic droughts
bring sparse pastures and inadequate
watering facilities in stock-movements,
all of which means slow-maturing beasts.
Last term opened under drought con-
ditions. Fires had impoverished the
pastures, and only sparse rains fell during
the year. The result was a £4816 fall in
net earnings, to £9299, after £4O more
was allowed for depreciation (£4916),
and an undisclosed amount for taxation.
Deducting minimum pref.-div. require-
ments (£6649) the return on ord. capital
was 1.5 p.c., which compares with 6.8,
8.4, 5.9 and 3 p.c. back to 1947. Yet
the ordinary dividend was only clipped a
point, and £1707 had to be taken from
reserves to pay it.
Remembering that the drought has now
broken and that the country is reported
in good condition, this action appears to
reflect the board’s confidence in the
current season.
A reduction of £39,243 in livestock
(valued on a working basis) brought
total holdings to the lowest figure since
the war. Liquids increased by a com-
parable amount (£38,364), ensuring ulti-
mate replacement, but whether this will
be completed in time to benefit from the
improved conditions is not known:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £216,414 £216,414 £216,414 £216,414
Overdraft .. 18,217
Creditors .. 21,909 34,388 31,859 32,574
Pinal divs. .. 12,654 15,149 12,108 11,016
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 75,238 71,806 73,658 71.011
Livestock .. 178,834 168,713 163,692 124,449
Stores . . 12,557 12,777 13,063 14,495
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 3,625 14,357 13,677 52,041
Working-capital (£157,395) fell by
£10,930 over the term.
It was in 1947, after a period of 20
years; in which ord. shareholders received
nothing, when intangibles on the books
equalled half the ord. capital and pref.
dividend arrears were £113,212, that the
co. cleared the slate by writing-off 10s. a
share of ord. capital (£109,165) and trans-
ferring a third of the remaining 10s.
shares to those on the pref.-register in
satisfaction of div.-arrears. This re-
duced paid capital to the present £216,414,
represented in 107,249 £1 8 p.c. cumu-
lative (reduced to 6.2 p.c. cumulative-
participating) pref. shares, and 218,330
10s. ords.
Since then ord. distributions have
averaged 4.8 p.c. Better is apparently ex-
pected, as the ord. shares at 6s. in January
recently sold at 12s. At this figure the
yield is 3.3 p.c. on the present dividend,
or 5 p.c. should it reach 6 p.c. Book
asset backing is 10s. 2d. per unit.
Linoleum Holdings, Ltd.
Temporary adversity in the floor-
covering trade has brought sellers of
scrip in Linoleum Holdings on to the
Sydney sharemarket. Previously Stock
Exchange transactions were limited to
a few hundred shares a year.
The entire assets of Linoleum Hold-
ings, Ltd. (capital £106,666 in £1 shares)
are 106,666 £1 shares in Michael Naim


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
ENVELOPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes. No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
dfg
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson 4 O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804-806 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
tosses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
BQ-82 Pitt Street, Sydney-
-67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
*
and control by
Australians and the know-
ledge gained by long experi-
ence in Australian banking
are of special benefit to our
customers.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
*2 5
nm
kr
§
£
''■Z
S&:
m
blacksmith’s Epic Flight
PARIS 1679
EWS has just reached us that the Sieur
Besnier, a smith of Sable, has crossed the river
Rhone from a high place on a flying machine of his own
invention. It consists of two poles, with, at each end, a
folding framework covered with taffeta. He held the poles
on his shoulders and attached their rear ends by cords to his
feet. The wings were arranged to fold on tHe upward stroke.
By alternate strokes of the left and right wings Besnier
maintained his flight. After he had landed Besnier said, “I
had no trouble at all. There was only three eighths cloud at
1,000 metres, and visibility was 20 kilometres. T believe that
flying has come to stay. This is all right for 1679. But
wait till 1952, when men will fly across the world, efficiently
fuelled, of course, by the BP Aviation Service.”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. All States,
eu— ** ‘^rait'i
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iraaian Oil Co, Ltd,
and Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
representing 21.3 p.c. of that
operating co.’s £500,000 capital.
The rest of the capital is owned
mainly by the Nairn cos. in Scot-
land and Canada and by
Meggitt, Ltd., which also has an
interest in Linoleum Holdings
itself.
The Australian Michael Nairn
olfshoot was set up in Australia
in 1927, and it took over from
Lino. Holdings (then the
Linoleum Manufacturing Co. of
Australia) what originally was
the business of the Australian
Linoleum Co., Ltd., at Auburn
(N.S.W.). Dividends started to
come to the Lino. co. in 1936,
and it in turn began to pay
ordinary dividends in 1939.
During the war years profits of
the operating co. declined, and
so did distributions from
Linoleum Holdings, Ord. divs.
were infrequent. All Lino,
shares were converted into ords.
in 1949, and a 5i p,c. distribu-
tion was made that year, drop-
ping to 3 p.c. in 1950, rising to
5f p.c. in 1951, and to 1\ p.c. in
1952. These distributions took
all but a handful of the income
passed on from Michael Nairn
(Aust.).
Linoleum Holdings now
balances to January 31 each
year. In its latest accounts it
reports on the activities of
Michael Nairn (Aust.). The
board of that operating co. says
that the first half of the 1951-52
term was reasonably profitable,
but, as a result of Government
policy, “the results of the second
half-year’s operations were
disastrous. Sales at £1,687,757
showed a serious reduction of
£626,672 compared with 1951.
As this trend became apparent
production was curtailed.”
The Nairn co. showed a loss
of £117,669 after providing
£29,907 for depreciation and
“writing down stocks to current
values.” No divs. are being paid
either by the Naim co. or the
Lino. co. in the circumstances.
For the first time in many
years shareholders in the Lino,
co. have been given a peek at the
figures of the manufacturing co.
Freeholds and buildings are in
the Nairn books at £148,723,
plant, etc., at £174,782, cash at
£7372, debtors at £262,277, and
stock at £1,185,830 —up £296,458
compared with the 1951 valua-
tion. Intangibles (goodwill and
trade-marks) figure at £30,002.
The bank was owed £285,174 at
September 30 last, and sundry
creditors £675,694.
Reserves of £441,628 had been
built up to the end of the pre-
ceding year; allowing for last
year’s loss, these dropped to
£348,119. Net tangible asset-
backing, on these figures, for
each of the 500,000 Michael
Nairn £1 shares at September 30
last was 325. Bd., and, since Lino.
Holdings owns one share in
Michael Nairn for each £1 share
in its own £106,666 of paid
capital, the backing per £1 of
Lino, capital is approximately
the same.
Linoleum Holdings has estab-
lished no reserves, but it has
been the practice of the manu-
facturing co. to build up its
strength in this respect. The net
tangible backing shown at
325. Bd. a share has been estab-
lished over a period in which
shareholders in Lino. Holdings
have received a very low average
dividend, and the same applies to
the Scottish Nairn concern, also
to Meggitt, Ltd. Fixed assets
of the manufacturing co. appear
to be in at a very conservative
valuation, and last year’s depre-
ciation was 17 p.c. on plant-
values. What problems, if any,
stocks represent remain to be
seen; whatever writing-down
occurred last term would appear
to have been adequate in view
of the board’s comment: “The
directors are hopeful that the
coming year will show reason-
able profits. They are pleased
to report that sales since
balancing-date have shown an
appreciable increase, indicating
a return to more normal trad-
ing conditions.”
Though the Nairn co. refers
to “Government policy” as the
cause of its troubles, import-
restrictions should have been of
assistance to it in the necessary
economic readjustment which the
Federal Government undertook
to carry out. Most enterprises
are now entering upon a period
of trading which is much more
like normal than the boom
period which ended in 1951.
Linoleum Holdings shares
have dropped to 23 s. —their
lowest level for several years.
At that figure they should be an
excellent holding proposition.
The Scottish control in Nairn’s
has in the past made it quite
plain that it believes in building
up financial strength before be-
coming liberal with dividends.
Te Teko’s Geothermal Steam
“F.”: Old Mother Nature had
an eye to business when she
planned things so that water
from a couple of N.Z. rivers
and a plentiful supply of geo-
thermal steam could be tapped
within easy reach of the sea,
near the Bay of Plenty coast, be-
cause this spot has won the selec-
tion as the site for the big Muru-
para pulp-and-newsprint mill,
to launch an industry that might
one day mean as much to New
Zealand as steel to Australia.
They call the place Te Teko, a
handy little Maori name which
shouldn’t bother anyone, either
in print or verbally.
As the linchpin in a scheme
which calls for an all-over invest-
ment of more than £3O million
of public and private money, a
sizeable part of it from abroad,
Te Teko has leapt into promin-
ence, and is worth a closer look.
Most Maorilanders hadn’t heard
of it until a few months back. It
was a sleepy little place alongside
the Rangitaiki and Tarawera
Rivers, on the outer reaches of
the thermal region of which
Maoriland’s scenic wonderland,
around Rotorua, is the centre.
Whakatane, where Whakatane
Board Mills, Ltd., has its big
plant, is 16 miles away on the
coast.
Te Teko stands about midway
between the Kaingaroa pine
forests, source of raw materials
for pulp and paper, and Mount
Maunganui, near Tauranga, pro-
jected port of shipment. These
advantages, added together,
would be enough to impress ex-
perts anywhere, and it was no
surprise that they clinched the
issue with overseas, as well as
local, advisers.
Steam alone from deep down
might be worth the price of
30,000 tons of coal a year. The
sea not far away will take the
effluent. Over a year has passed
since the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co., Ltd., made known its
ambition to be the founder of
the newsprint industry in Maori-
land, and most of this time has
been spent looking for the site.
But other planning hasn’t been
at a standstill. Railways, roads,
bridges, a housing settlement,
power-plants, wharves and port
facilities, as well as the mills,
are all being blueprinted in
readiness; for a full-scale start
soon. Missions abroad have
paved the way for sterling- and
dollar - borrowing. Internally
the project will rank first in its
claim on local funds.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The Royal Empire Society on Thursday
last entertained as ambassadors of
Empire (unofficial but nonetheless
potent) members of the theatrical pro-
fession at present in Sydney. Jessie
Matthews was welcomed by the society’s
treasurer, Walter Williams, as “a
great Empire-builder,” and Edwin
Styles made a lighthearted speech bound
to create goodwill—his only complaint
being that when he was in Scotland he
couldn’t get any “Scotch,” because it
was all for export and when he got to
Sydney he couldn’t get any because it
was hard to import. Hugh Hastings
was also present, and Jessica Noad. Mary
Parker, whose brother is secretary to the
Duke of Edinburgh, came along. She is
in Sydney at present playing in “The
White Sheep of the Family.”
Among those present at the reception
were Lieut.-General Berryman and Mrs.
Berryman, the Trade Commissioner for
the United Kingdom, Mr. J. H. Adams,
and Mrs. Adams, Mrs. A. W. Keighley,
Mr, and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mr. and
Mrs. Allan Williams, Mrs. David Lindsay,
Dr. and Mrs. Garnet Halloran, Colonel
and Mrs, J. J. Sullivan, Mrs. Sylvia Quist
and Mrs, J. M, Dodd.
☆ ☆ ☆
Schoolgirls from Wenona (the bride’s
old school) were present at St, Thomas’,
North Sydney, when Valerie Hawes
married Tom McKell on Saturday.
Valerie wore a classical dress of heavy
embossed white satin with long sleeves
and a Peter Pan collar. Her tulle veil
flowed out from a coronet of white car-
nations and tuberoses. The matron of
honor, Mrs. Ken Walcott (Bombala), and
bridesmaid Margaret Webb wore white
marquisette dresses, the yokes sprinkled
with guipure-lace medallions. Their pretty
hats were circlets of red roses with white
crinoline brims, and they carried bouquets
of red roses. Reception was at the
Cremorne home of the bride’s parents,
Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Hawes. Among the
guests was Miss Betty McKell, who is a
cousin of the groom.
* ☆ ☆
The fashion for affixing flowers to the
chest with a tiny piece of Scotch tape
was evident at the first night of “The
White Sheep of the Family.” Mrs. Jimsie
Ross had three lovely hand-made flowers
depending as if by magic from her collar-
bone, and Ann Barnett bloomed with
one red rose, “It must be much more
comfortable than safety-pins,” said a
well-known cartoonist who was present.
One of the most glamorous first-nighters
was Pat Firman, who, clad in black
velvet, came along with Ben Arnott.
Another devotee of black was Mrs.
Gordon Johnstone, whose ruffled chiffon
was embroidered with silver. Jessie
Matthews added glamor to a black dress
with a white stole run with silver. Her
daughter Constance was in green satin.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Martin Dodson, who has been
visiting Sydney from Roseworthy (S.A.),
looked into the exhibition of French
facsimiles at David Jones’ Gallery in
company with Mrs. Tom Bateman and
Mrs. Henry Gunson when it was opened
by the Minister for France, M. Louis
Roche, on Thursday. All three wore
black, Mrs. Bateman adding a bronze
satin cravat pinned with an exquisite
brooch of tiny pearls on gold in the
shape of a lyre. Mrs. John Bovill’s
golden shantung, with its - wide pleated
skirt, was notable, also Mrs. Roger
Auffray’s elegant black faille suit and
chic black hat. Mrs. Alan Copeland’s
grey suit was cut on the new straight
lines, and Lady Moxham looked smart
in a severely-cut shit of black with a
small white sailor hat banded in black.
The standard of dressing generally gets
better and better at art shows, smocks
and sandals having given place to the
pure-silk dress, the French hat and the
Italian shoe.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were about 200 guests at the
29th Anniversary party of the Manly
Art Gallery, when the vice-chairman of
the committee, Mr. Hermon Slade, paid
a tribute to the founders of the Gallery
including the “maestro” Cavalier A,
Dattilo-Rubbo, who could not be present
but who was assuredly there in spirit.
Guests-of-honor were Sir Charles and
Lady Lloyd Jones with their son Charles,
and to Lady Lloyd Jones Mrs. Slade
presented a cluster of pale-green cym-
bidiums arranged with autumn leaves.
Sir Charles spoke on his experiences of
art here and abroad and as vice-president
of National Art Gallery Trust.
The charming musical programme had
been arranged by Mrs. H. Twigden,
whose husband is hon. secretary of the
committee. Among the guests were Mr.
and Mrs. Will Ashton, Mr, Erik Langker,
Mr. and Mrs. Lyall Trindall, Mr. and
Mrs. Henry Hanke, Mr. and Mrs. Albert
Sherman, Mr, and Mrs. Charles Taylor,
Alderman Percy Nolan, Alderman and
Mrs. J. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. W. C.
Wentworth, Mr. E. D. Darby, M.L.A.,
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Timbs, Major and
Mrs. C. Swmbourne.
Leaving this month with the Coro-
nation Contingent is Senior Sister Phyllis
Scholtz, who comes from Nuriootpa
( S.A.), and who is attached to the No. 3
R.A.A.F. Hospital . Richmond (N.S.W).
Sister Scholtz will represent the R.A.A.F.
Nursing Service at the Coronation.
Accompanying her will be W.RA.A.F.
representatives Flight-Officer Elinor
Brett, who is from Dardanup (W.A.),
Corporal “Pat” Fry, whose home town
is Forest Range (S.A .), and LA.C.W.
June Coates, from Hurstville. R.A.A.F .
official photo.
One of the best bits of advice given
to “freshers” at the University’s orienta-
tion week was to “follow the instructions
on the mayonnaise-bottle: ‘Keep cool,
but do not freeze.’ ”
☆ ☆ ☆
As it was the ardent wish of the late
Lady Anderson to have a concert grand
piano for the Great Hall at the Univer-
sity, a committee has been formed to
realise this in memory of the fine work
she did during her life for charitable
purposes in Sydney. Mrs, Rupert
Scammell is chairman of the committee,
which includes Miss Margaret Gillespie
(hon. secretary), Miss. B. Archdale (hon.
treasurer), Mrs. J. Cassidy, Miss Gladys
Marks, Mrs. John McPhillamy, Mrs.
Alfred Varcoe and Mrs. H. A. Showers,
at whose home, Tresco, Elizabeth Bay,
a meeting will be held next Friday at
3.45 p.m. Donations for this fund should
be sent to Miss Archdale at the Women’s
College, the University of Sydney.
☆ ☆ ☆
The foyer of the Town Hall is to be-
come an art gallery on the night of the
Opera Ball (April 17), when students com-
peting for the three £25 prizes will have
their paintings judged. It will also be
possible to see paintings by many other
members of the art world, such as William
Constable, Desmonde Downing, Wilfred
Asplin, Elaine Haxton, Amy Kingston,
Leslie Lindsay, Paul Kathner, Alex Mc-
Kay, Robin Lovejoy and Maurice Sulli-
van (who is arranging the decor for the
ball). His Excellency the Governor is
to be present at this ball, which promises
to be one of the season’s most spectacular.
Another to look forward to is the
Coronation Ball to be held at the Town
Hall on May 22 and organised by the
Royal Empire Society. A feature will
be the pageant, which should be even
more brilliant than in former years and
for which gallery tickets will be available
as soon as the ball-tickets are sent out.
Consistent concertgoers who brighten
up the picture considerably are singer
Marjorie Conley and pianist Joy Cross.
Youthful and pretty and clad in feminine
ballerina-length dresses, they have been
present together at all the concerts of
Irmgard Seefried and Gerald Moore. By
the way, one couldn’t help noting the
high standard of the singing of “God
Save the Queen” at the Gerald Moore
concert. It’s certain that the percentage
of trained sopranos in the audience has
been pretty high,
☆ * ☆
Apparently it is still possible for Aus-
tralians or other overseas visitors to get
accommodation in London during the
Coronation period. The British Travel
and Holiday Association has issued an
assurance that, although London hotels
may be fully booked, there are more
than 7000 private householders on its
register who are willing to accept visitors
on a paying-guest basis. It is emphasised
that visitors accepting such accommoda-
tion will have complete “independence”
and can treat it in effect as hotel accom-
modation. At the same time it is hoped
that visitors and their hosts will welcome
the opportunity for fostering a closer
understanding between the peoples of
various nationalities.
MELBOURNE
Sketches depicting scenes along the
Coronation route were a feature of deco-
rations in the Royale Ballroom when 1200
attended the Young Contingent of the
Victoria League’s Coronation Ball, held
to aid the funds of the League’s North-
cote School at Bacchus*. Marsh. Lady
Brooks, who was with the Governor,
was presented with- a bouquet of roses
by Marjorie Tatnall, president of the
Younger Contingent. Her Excellency’s
full-skirted gown was of white organza
screened with a black lace design.
Mrs. F. Hobill Cole, president of the
ball committee, wore a gown of orchid-
pink slipper-satin which had a bustle
effect of burgundy satin. Mrs. H. Mauds-
ley chose black Chantilly lace. Mrs,
T. T. Hollway’s chiffons were ice-blue,
Mrs. Jim Buchanan’s organza dark-grey.
Marjorie Tatnall’s gown of heavy silk-
shantung was checked in pale-lemon, grey
and blue.
With a medico-husband and family of
two daughters and one son to care for,
Mrs. Eccles McKay can still find time
for Red Cross work —she is vice-chairman
of the Victorian Division of Red Cross
and Divisional Commandant of all
women personnel. At the recent Market
Fair site was in charge of organising and
helping in the Bargain Basement which
netted over £850. Mrs. Ecces McKay
was a prominent hostess during the big
B.M.A. conference held in Melbourne.
Photo by Broothorn.
The Chambrelent collection of autumn
and winter styles is notable for simplicity
of line and Parisian femininity. Skirts
of suits and day-frocks are longer; so
are bodices, often with an influence of
the “middy” line, and fullness is set
low below the hipline or at knee-height.
In several day dresses swathing continues
from the hips into a side floating-panel.
Moulded bodices have either a plunging
neckline or are cut high to the neck.
One of the smartest day frocks was in
scarlet-and-black-flecked tweed. The
slim skirt was draped across the hip,
while on the other side a loose, black-
fringed panel fell from a large patch-
pocket. Leaf-brown wool fashioned a
Paquin suit with mink collar and revers.
Beneath the jacket was a high-necked
brown jersey middy-blouse with a band
of mink at the hipline. Mink also
trimmed the small brown velour hat up-
turned at the back which went with it.
Among elaborate gowns was one in
which the bodice, cut to a deep V at the
back, had a crossover halter-effect. Two
side floating-panels flared from the slim,
draped skirt. Another of heavy satin in
ashes-of-violet tonings carried motifs in
crystals, sequins and amethyst paillettes.
But only the perfect-figured woman could
wear the black satin gown which broke
into a deep flared flounce below the
knees. Thomas Harrison’s hats were
nicely complementary to suits and frocks,
and there was one lovely little theatre-
cap of black velvet, a shallow curving
shell embroidered with midnight-blue
sequins and beads.
,☆ ☆ ☆
The “Barber of Seville” drew a capa-
city house for the National Theatre’s
presentation, in which Mattera sang the
role of Count Almaviva. In the audi-
ence were Mrs. Garnet Carroll, in black
crepe skirt and jewel-encrusted white lace
bodice; Mrs. Sydney Baillieu Myer,
wearing a black gown and jacket of em-
broidered white faille; Mrs. John Knox,
in navy faille; Mrs. Bill Knox, whose
black tulle was covered by a scarlet taffeta
coat; Mrs. Howard Charlwood, in gold-
spotted tie-silk; Mrs, Guy Smith, whose
gown was of hyacinth-blue chiffon; and
Mrs. Eric Harrison, her brown tulle
gown spotted with copper sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were two guests-of-honor at the
party given by the nursing staffs of the
Alfred Hospital and Margaret' Coles
Maternity Hospital: Alice Adcock,
matron of the Margaret Coles, and Nancy
Clarke, night super, at the Alfred. Alice
chose a cotton frock in black-and-white
diagonal check blocked with brown and
yellow. Nancy’s silks were in autumn
tones. Sister Joyce Smith was hostess,
and received the guests wearing a frock
of white broderie Anglaise. She was
assisted by Marjorie Luke, in smoke-grey
striped nylon, Phyl Davis, wearing floral
silks, and Veronica Collins, whose bro-
cades were white with a pink pattern.
The lady superintendent of the Alfred
Hospital, Miss M. J. Hanna, wore a
pleated royal-blue crepe frock.
Among the guests were Dr. and Mrs.
Norman Speirs, Dr. and Mrs. J. Smibert,
Dr. and Mrs. K. Churches, Dr. and Mrs.
Arthur Hill, Dr. and Mrs. Ron Rome,
Mr, and Mrs. J. Lifoni, Meg Grover and
Louise Holloway.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Harold Bettle entertained press-
women at a luncheon-party on the eve
of her return to the U.S. with her hus-
band, who has been g.-m. in this city
for General Motors-Holden. During her
years in Melbourne Mrs. Bettle has given
sterling service as a member of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital. She is taking back
with her some Australian paintings, and
she hopes to settle down and write a
book of her experiences in many coun-
tries. Also at the luncheon was Mrs.
Earl Daum, whose husband has taken
over Mr. Bettle’s post.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the cocktail-party given at Menzies
by Dimmi Mangarkis, representative of
the English perfume firm of Goya, Mrs.
Gordon Hare wore a ballerina frock of
black tulle with a narrow gold stripe;
Mrs. Geoffrey Hare covered her floral
silks with a blue-fox cape; Mrs. P. D.
Phillips wore with her navy fitted coat
a white grosgrain close-fitting cap; Mrs.
D. M. Brook’s crepes were bottle-green;
Mrs. Bruce McGregor wore a junior-
blue faille frock and a hat of white
feathers; of light- and dark-green-checked
taffeta was Mrs. John Thomas’s dress.
Mrs. A. D. Hanscombe had white daisies
wreathed round the edge of the black
velvet hat she wore with her black chiffon
frock.
-☆ ☆ ☆
On the eve of going abroad with her
husband and daughter Pamela, Mrs.
Arthur Blakebrough was guest-of-honor
at a party given by Mrs. Felix Haber and
Vera Bradford, who provided the music,
and Mrs. Fred Brockhoff and Mrs. W.
Osbaldiston. Mrs. Blakebrough was in
pale lime embroidered Swiss muslin and a
small black hat. Pamela’s nylons were
of pale yellow. Mrs. Haber’s Dior
jacket-suit was of black paper shantung,
Vera Bradford wore rose-pink shot-taffeta.
An ensemble of ice-blue crepe was Mrs.
Brockhoff’s choice. Mrs. Osbaldiston
had a black velvet picture-hat for her
green-and-white-spotted frock. Mrs.
A. A. Lord’s black jacket-suit was re-
lieved with white lapels.


#
Vi
DON'T GIVE HER POISON
It's against the law . . . besides, it's too
expensive, and shooting stains the carpet
TRY PSYCHOLOGY
A subscription to the “Woman s Mirror will
• Develop her sense of humor;
® Occupy the time she normally devotes to plotting
your persecution;
• Give her the opportunity to study the eccentricities
of less perfect husbands ;
® In short, convert her into a pleasant vegetable
t around the house.
In the “Woman’s Mirror” she will see her own reflection
—the shock alone may cure her.
Take home a copy or send for a year’s supply (£l/6/-)
of this potent antidote.
DO NOT DELAY —institutions for demented husbands
are uncomfortably full.
THE AUSTRALIAN WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” Publication
BUY IT WITH YOUR “BULLETIN”
AND SAVE YOUR SANITY
Public Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND WELLINGTON DISTRICT
PALMERSTON NORTH REGISTRY.
IN THE MATTER of “The Trustee Act.
1908” and IN THE MATTER of the
Estate of ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE
of Makino Widow deceased.
TO: HAROLD LITTLE of parts unknown
AND TO: The nephews and nieces ot
ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE (nee
GARTNER) of Makino near Feuding in
New Zealand Widow deceased.
PURSUANT TO AN ORDER made by a
Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand on the 24th day of February
1953 NOTICE IS HEREBY 'GIVEN that
all the above-named persons having claims
to share in the Estate of the above-named
ANNIE KATHLEEN PROUSE deceased
who died at Makino aforesaid on the
sth day of August 1952 and Probate of
whose Will was granted out of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
20th day of August 1952 ARE HEREBY
REQUIRED to send in full particulars of
their claims to the Executor Thomas
Leonard Seddon Esquire at the Offices of
Messieurs Mclntyre Taylor & Seddon
Solicitors Kimbolton Road Feilding New
Zealand on or before the Ist day of June
1953 after which date the Executor wUI
proceed to distribute the assets of the
estate of the said deceased among the
persons entitled thereto having regard
only to the claims and demands of which
he shall then have had notice. —Dated at
Feilding this 24th day of February. 1953.
McINTYRE TAYLOR & SEDDON, Solici-
tors for the Executor, FEILDING, NEW
ZEALAND. .
I, MARION LANDER, of German nation-
ality, born at Berlin, resident 3 years in
Australia, now residing at Lot 17, Knight-
avenue, Panania, intend to apply for natu-
ralisation under the Nationality anc
Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, GINETTE ABOAF, of Greek nation-
ality, bom at Alexandria, Egypt, resident
four years in Australia, now residing at
172 Brook Street, Coogee, intend to apply
for naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
■f kftMuj
*«*
as you like
amid the
colour and
splendour of
fascinating
cmoN
£r--.>
Ceylon is famous for
rare tropical scenery.
nuv
Colourful Kandyan
Dancers, part of the
thrilling Kandy P era-
hera in August.
Nature has been truly lavish with
her gifts to this magic island gem.
The moment you step ashore, the
subtle charm of Ceylon will infect
you with the desire to stay. In.
Ceylon the tourist is provided with
every modern amenity for rest and
play. Famous tropical hotels pro-
vide accommodation and cuisine
that is unrivalled anywhere, and
Resthouses (Tourist Inns) _ offer
old-wofld charm. Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian
streams, deep sea game fishing,
folf, shark-free surfing, and the
amous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and
literature can be obtained by writing
to the CEYLON GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Airline
Companies in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Agents through
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau free of commission.
CT .5.16
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
Pratt in Austria
Douglas Pratt’s exhibition
from abroad at Sydney Gros-
venor Galleries is by far the
most attractive he has held for
many years.
His pencil-drawings of the
elms in Kensington Gardens,
the Venetian waterfront and
“Near St. Johann, Austria,” are
in his usual fine and subtle tech-
nique and could hardly be ex-
pected to improve on the many
lovely studies of gum-trees he
has done in the past. His oils,
where his technique is inade-
quate, remain at the previous
level —pleasant enough if you
don’t look too deeply. “Old
Harbor, Nice,” a rich little con-
centration of blues and golds, is
the best of them.
But the most striking develop-
ment has been in watercolor: a
medium especially suited to the
quick impressions and renewed
excitement of travel.
Possibly there is an impres-
sion of poetry not quite carried
right through these watercolors,
the meticulous foreground and
romantic mountains beyond
showing the conscientious crafts-
man at war with the mood of
the artist. But that is a very
fine point. The total effect of
“Austrian Village,” “Landscape
Near Innsbruck” and “Austrian
Farmhouse,” with their villages
crouching among green fields at
the foot of cloud-topped ranges,
is fresh, clean and captivating.
Stage and Music
Seefried and Schneiderhan
In further recitals of her
Sydney season Irmgard Seefried
continued the demonstration of
her flawless art, ranging over
early English and Italian songs,
but with lieder heavily pre-
ponderating, as was only right.
As well as some of the best-
known songs of Schubert, Schu-
mann, Brahms and Strauss, the
soprano gave us a rare feast of
Hugo Wolf. In one recital she
included 14 of them as the second
half —an unprecedented occa-
sion.
These songs of Wolf are an
acquired taste. Many of them
have no instant melodic appeal
as do most of the songs of his
predecessors in the composition
of lieder. The beauties have to
be searched for. But the best
of them are profound and
finely wrought, with the piano
writing of tight economy and
often astringent. In those
selected —and very tastefully,
too —the understanding between
Miss Seefried and Gerald Moore
seemed to be almost psychic.
They seemed to think as one
mind.
At the final concert the singer
was joined by her husband,
Wolfgang Schneiderhan, who
wielded an 'easy-flowing bow
and conjured a splendid tone in
giving quite a virile performance
of Max Bruch’s Violin Con-
certo. He demonstrated a feel-
ing for the grave earnestness that
is the mainspring of this work;
in the final movement, though,
the fiddle’s voice didn’t stand
out with sufficient boldness
while Mr. Moore was giving the
piano the “works.”
Miss Seefried introduced
three Sacred Motets by Paul
Hindemith, It proved to be —as
it could quite easily have been
foretold —an awful waste of
beautiful singing, for these
motets are as poverty-stricken in
invention as is practically every-
thing that he has written. Hinde-
mith is the great bore of music;
he can take longer to say noth-
ing than any living composer.
After this flat beer came the
sparkling Moselle of Mozart
opera—two arias, only rarely
heard here, but lively and lovely,
graceful, lilting and melodious:
“L’amero Saro Constante” from
“II Re Pastore” and Ilia’s great
air from “Idomeneo.”
“The Consul”
If the National Theatre Opera
Company at Melbourne Prin-
cess had put on nothing but this
music drama by Gian-Carlo
Menotti it would still have done
something more unusual than
nine-tenths of its predecessors,
and, what’s more, done it extra-
ordinarily well.
Mr. Menotti’s opera isn’t a
vast symphony into which the
characters are fitted a la
Wagner; nor is it a fantastic
story whose banalities are
smothered in lovely ditties d la
Rossini. It is a particularly grim
and realistic depiction of a pos-
sible situation in which the most
intense moments of emotion are
deftly touched up and heightened
by the musical brush of the com-
poser. It hasn’t an overture to
start with, and the curtain
silently goes up on the home of
John Sorel in some European
country on one side or other of
the Iron Curtain. It has no poli-
tical bias one way or another,
but is actyally a satire on
bureaucracy in general.
The emotional hurly-burly, in-
stead of being let down by the
scenic artists as in most operas,
is enormously intensified by the
perpetual dissolving of Mrs.
Sorel’s home into her dreams
and nightmares. What with the
action, the music and the disap-
pearing and reappearing walls,
chairs and tables, everything is
on the move, and the only things
that stay put are the dear old
consul and the rules and regula-
tions.
The evening was a triumph for
Marie Collier, the young find of
last year’s season. Miss Collier
is a natural actress who happens
to be gifted with a voice sweet
and sensitive enough to give
variety and richness to the long
recitatives, which weren’t so
good when heard from the
mouth of James Wilson as John
Sorel, though Justine Rettick
gave them poignancy as the
mother,
♦♦♦
“The Government
Inspector”
Canberra Rep. opened its new
theatre with a competent per-
formance of Gogol’s “Govern-
ment Inspector,” intelligently
produced by Alan Burke.
We are no longer obliged to
take this play as anything more
than a rather ordinary comedy.
Gogol was clearly an acute ob-
server, but not a subtle drama-
tist; his technique, usually
heavy-handed, is often only
vaguely dramatic. Too much of
the dialogue dawdles, and at
times one wonders whether the
laughs make up for the
longueurs.
Pace is therefore vitally im-
portant in producing and per-
forming this play, and one
could see how the failure to
observe that fact marred an
otherwise excellent performance
by Ralph Wilson as the servant
Osip. "
However, on an excellent stage-
set by Vic Forstmann, the play
went along very happily, and
even, when it could, rollickingly.
Michael Wilson as Hlestakov
the impostor was somewhat
shrill, but he did smarten the
pace, and he was convincing.
Lloyd Thomson played the
Mayor with more ease, and with
the same determination to keep
things from dragging.
The frightened local officials,
as a whole, really constitute a
composite character; and Hec
Macmillan as the charity com-
missioner, Harald Brokenshire
as the judge and John Cheyne as
the school superintendent, all
made their own well-defined
contributions to the life of that
character.
❖
“Bom Yesterday”
Resisting any attempt to
imitate the film version, Perth’s
Company of Four presented a
completely honest and enjoyable
version of Garson Kanin’s
“Born Yesterday” at the Somer-
ville Auditorium. David
Lopian’s production drew the
utmost from the cast without
any obvious striving for effect;
movement was always adequate
but never superfluous. The
happy result was free from even
forgivable minor flaws.
Hazel Lewis was quite
irresistible as the beautiful and
apparently dumb Billie Dawn —it
was a pleasure to see so young
an actress handle a difficult role
with confidence and control. As
the brutal, unprincipled Harry
Brock, Fred Goddard egotised
plausibly and with force, and
was well supported by Kevin
Capom, outstanding among the
lesser players as the yes-man,
Bob Gude as Paul Verrall,
Billie’s willing mentor, and Ben
Sainken as Harry’s degenerate
lawyer.
There was some good
ensemble-playing throughout
although John Rose’s corrupt
Senator could possibly have
reacted more strongly in the final
scene.


one WOMAN'S meat
by ETHEL ANDERSON
Mrs. seppy thistle-
dew, of Gander’s
Pond, near Parramatta
(N.S.W.), had taught her
seven daughters to say Yes in
four languages.
“A lonely sailor in a foreign
port gives a plain girl her best
chance of marriage,” she had
once told Seppy, her husband.
“So many ships of other
nationalities call in at Port
Jackson nowadays that it’s just
as well to teach our daughters to
answer any proposal of marriage
in any tongue.”
Seppy Thistledew agreed with
her; he always did. But her
girls, hearty young women with
no nonsense about them, whose
ages ranged from fifteen to
twenty-eight, considered these
polyglot tags which their
mother, even in the nursery, had
forced them to learn somewhat
equivocal in meaning.
‘‘Oui, merci!” Sophia had
objected. “Won’t he, if he ever
materialises, think we are beg-
ging for mercy? And then, dear
Mama, Mais oui! Surely he is
certain to ask “May we —
what ?”
“These French sailors engaged
in the island trade speak mostly
Melanesian, anyway,” Angelina
had further complained, “and as
for saying Ya, Bitte, to any man,
frankly I couldn’t do it! In
the first place it sounds almost
rude! In the second, an innocent
French sailor might easily
imagine I was a barmaid offer-
ing him a mug of small ale! ”
“There are no innocent French
sailors,” their mother had
insisted, “and Ya, Bitte, is
German, please remember! Let
me hear you accept the first-
officer on an Indiaman, or the
mate on a tea-clipper, Georgiana
darling!”
Georgiana was her mother’s
favorite child. She was so
hideous that her face had a
ghastly kind of fascination about
it. Her mouth was large. Her
lower-lip looked, not so much
as if a bee had newly stung it,
but as if a whole hive of bees
had used it as a sting-cushion.
Even her doting Mama callec
it “generous.” Her short nose
was hooked, her nostrils cu:
back. Her large brown eyes hac
in them the look of agony a do
might show when sinking into
bog, they were so pathetic,
a day when no nice girl was sun
burnt, when faces were alway
shrouded from the sun b
“gossamers,” she was as brow
as a berry. However, for thos
who like that sort of thing, he
figure was as neatly moulded into
her bodice as sand in an hour
glass.
Now, raising her great
mournful eyes heavenwards, she
said, obediently, and with jus
the right “wistful” touch
“Ha, UttchaT
“Very good, dear child,” her
mother said critically, “But
keep your eyes downcast at first
and then just raise them shyly as
you finish.” She rearranged the
lappets of her lace cap. “But do
be careful, girls, on no account;
to say ‘Kachhd instead of
‘Uttcha’ as that means something
quite, quite different!”
And Fragrance, Geraldine,
Angelina, Georgiana, Sophia,
Ermyntrude and Gussie, who
were model daughters, would
practise saying Oui, merci. Ya,
Bitte ! Ha Uttcha and Aw a’ wf
ye! (which last expression Mrs.
Thistledew, upon careful obser-
vation, had decided was the
Scottish manner of saying Yes
to a proposal of marriage) till
they got stitches in their sides.
For it was only Georgiana who
had no sense of humor; none
at all.
LEAVING nothing undone
that a good mother could do
to further her daughters’ chances
of marriage, Mrs. Thistledew
kept a plaid in the hall, and in
the long, sad evenings in winter,
when no one had come near the
house for weeks on end, no one,
no one at all, Sophia, throwing
the plaid across her stalwart
shoulders, would practise saying
“Com’ under ma plaidie, ma
bunnie wee lussie,” till her sisters
(except, of course, Georgiana)
would die of laughter in rather
pretty heaps on the uncarpeted
stairs.
Fragrance, his first-born, was
Mr. Thistledew’s favorite.
Mrs. Thistledew, with infinite
tact keeping the less pleasant
facts of life from her husband,
as much as possible hid her
other girls very carefully in the
background; it is really
doubtful whether her husband
guessed that he had more than
three or four girls ; he had never,
that was certain, seen all seven
children at once. It was a shock
his wife had spared him.
True, Mr. Thistledew would
sometimes trace a likeness to his
mother, or to one of his seventeen
sisters, in a plain girl whom he
had passed on the stairs and
whom he had taken to be a new
housemaid; and sometimes he
would say to Theodolinda, his
wife, “I noticed a girl sitting in
the pew behind us in church this
morning who was really the
living image of my poor aun
Grania McCubbin. Have you
any idea who she was?”
Wickedly, Mrs, Thistledew
would not say, “That was you
daughter Georgiana”; she
would answer instead “Oh.? Do
point her out to me next time you
come across her.”
But Mr. Thistledew did know
Fragrance. He dined a deux
with his wife. After dinner
Fragrance would join him, and
his wife would withdraw
upstairs.
In winter. Fragrance sat beside
her father in front of a glowing
fire, and watched him drink
toddy, and color a meerschaum-
pipe which she had sewed-up in
chamois-leather, and which they
would constantly undress in
order to observe the exquisite
biscuit of its browning bowl. He
wore, then, a red velvet smoking-
cap with a rim of Berlin wool,
meant to fit comfortably over his
ears, while carpet slippers eased
his feet after their daylong pains.
He had sensitive feet. A pair of
mellowing boots, rubbed daily
with oil, would hang for months
over the banisters outside his
bedroom door; yet, even so
carefully softened, it would be
long before he dared to wear
them.
Mr. Thistledew, too, had, his
wife averred, a “skin like white
satin.” His hair had been, in his
youth, a reddish gold that would
have tantalised Titian. His blue
eyes were of so brilliant a hue
that looking into them made
people forget what they were
saying to him; they really were
marvellous.
He had migrated from that
corner of the east coast
of Scotland where some
fair folk had landed
ages back, and he had
a long, narrow head,
squared at the temples,
and not at all resem-
bling the domelike skull
of the average Scot.
Though he was usually
the most complaisant,
the most easygoing of
men, his temper had to
be experienced to be
believed. In his rages
his blazing blue eyes
would appear to func-
tion some feet in front of
their sockets, they sparkled so
venomously and so brightly. He
would rub his ribs with furious
hands, and, leaning his tall,
supple figure forward a little, he
would pour out such a blast of
invective, biblical in essence, as
to stun all within earshot.
It is possible that some remote
ancestor had been “The
Boaster,” “The Braggart,” “The
Taunting Chieftain,” who stood
out before his tribe in line of
battle extended, to exchange
insults with his opposite-number.
Such was certainly the ancient
custom of his tribe. The office
of “Champion ” a plumed and
venerated warrior, was probably
a specialised and inheritable
one; and the tongue, perhaps,
gained in point, in a salty exuber-
ance, by use. Yet Mr. Thistle-
dew, with all this “official”
acrimony (when he spoke, that
is, as a husband and father, out-
raged), was the kindest and most
generous of men ; he kept, by his
bounty, scores of indigent rela-
tives. What would provoke his
anger? The sight of Mrs.
Thistledew in a new and becom-
ing bonnet; the monthly bill for
starch —anything might rouse
it!
TT was this factor which
-*• heightened the importance of
Fragrance’s evening ministra-
tions. It was her duty to make
domestic life suavely acceptable
to him. In summer, father and
daughter would sit side by side
in the bay-window overlooking
the teeming vineyards, and drink
iced hock, while, in perfect
amity, they would watch the
warm west wind whistling
through the arcaded vines, shak-
ing the new-born foliage, as the
moist, still-bronzed leaves and
tendrils deflected, like mirrors,
the slops of gold the maddening
sun poured over them all day,
with a Tuscan abundance, and
in the evening, with how
reluctant a departure!
In this vineyard the small black
grapes were grown in terraces so
that each vine might catch the
utmost warmth; the rest
meandered in curving lines over
the three hill-tops within sight.
Together father and daughter
would rejoice in a good harvest;
together in a bleak winter, when
they were trying to force a year’s
hope on a frozen soil, they would
deplore the southerly gales that
blew the vine props out of the
ground, and made the two or
three gum-trees left standing near
the house creak like a ship’s
rigging.
The land had all been cleared.
The neat homestead, painted
white, a wonga-wonga vine
trained on its veranda, looked
like a toy pertly set among its
fruitful fields. At one side of it
was a miniature tower, in which,
piled up on top of each other,
rose the bedrooms out of whose
windows, on moonlight nights, or
during the more dramatic
moments of storms or sunsets,
the faces of the seven Thistledew
girls might be seen gazing at a
world with which they could
make no contacts. Mrs. Thistle-
dew called this “my belle-fry.”
She had no notion that her girls
were “homely,”
The sacred oaks of Dodona,
whose murmuring boughs would
answer any questions put to them
(of course in Greek —or was it
Latin?), spoke oracles no more
inspired than Fragrance as she
proudly advised her father about
this and that; of the making of
cheap brandy from marc; of the
right use of argol from the vats ;
of the length of time claret might
be kept ; and she would plead
for the lives of the bulbuls, the
black and red birds newly come
from Persia. “But, Papa, they
eat caterpillars! I have watched
them! ”
The upshot of this delightful
companionship was that Frag-
rance had decided never to
marry, but to be her father
right-hand in his business;
ambition frowned on by Mr
Thistledew, who held that a
women should marry, and tha
Fragrance, as the eldest of he
family, must marry first.
TPHOUGH at the moment he
1 own prestige was somewhat
lessened, since no sailors hac
eventuated to put her daughter
linguistic talents to the test, sh
was not one to shirk her duty
On Dr. Boisragon, the mos
eligible man, perhaps, in al
Parramatta, becoming
widower, she sought out Frag
ranee and sounded her on th
question of becoming Pete
Boisragon’s second wife.
“Mama,” Fragrance had a:
once exclaimed with passion, “
would rather die.”
When Mrs. Thistledew con
sidered a thing “good for” her
children she was adamant.
“Allow me to know what i
best for you, dear. Even St
Paul, who begrudged us the
smallest pleasure (except perhaps
the purchase of a hat), considerec
that women should marry; no
for pleasure, but as a duty.”
“Let Angelina marry Peter!
She is next in age, and she dis-
likes him less than I do.”
“No, my dearest girl! It is
your turn first.” Mrs. Thistledew
refused to relent. “Here, child,
is a jam blancmange in a china
pudding-basin, nicely set, and a
quart bottle of white soup,
cooked chicken, a dozen eggs and
some brandy-snaps! I have
packed them neatly in a basket.
Jessie McCree won a very good
husband for her granddaughter
for the price of a Chariotte-
Russe, so go, my dear daughter,
to Laburnum Cottage, and do
all you can to help Peter’s two
old aunts, who have taken the
two children there, in order that
their presence in his house in
Parramatta should not worry
their father in his grief. Why,
they have been there over a
week! I feel really guilty that
none of us have been over to
see them!”
Mrs. Thistledew kissed her
daughter kindly and bustled back
into the house, while Fragrance,
having set a Chinese rush-hat at
a safe angle on her shapely head,
took the basket with a sigh, and,
accompanied by five sisters, set
off along the rutty, muddy, wind-
ing track that led to the white
gate, half-a-mile away.
Each sister as she there kissed
Fragrance a ceremonial “good-
bye” (it was a kissing family)
added a word of advice.
“Ingratiate yourself with the
orphans, dear.”
“Offer to dam his socks.”
“Peter has had twenty
children, Fragrance! A little
intellectual companionship
might, perhaps, be acceptable.”
“It is just those seventeen
graves in the cemetery at Parra-
matta that so revolt me,” poor
Fragrance exclaimed. “I think
Peter is a perfect ogre, a Blue-
beard of the nursery! To have
twenty children and bury seven-
teen ! Why, Bluebeard only
killed seven wives—it was seven,
wasn’t it? Oh, no, nothing would
induce me to marry the man -
nothing! I would rather die!”
The oldest Miss Thistledew
went off down the road, sadly
and rebelliously.
Her sisters waved to her,
wondering- meanwhile where
Georgiana was. She had been
missing all day, and she had,
during the past few days, been
several times mysteriously
THE TWO MUDLARKS
Two mudlarks came with Spring to the tree
That leaned its spring-cleaned limbs and leaves
To the garden’s green. We made-believe
They were Spring herself showing she lives
In mating birds to be better seen.
They built a neat like half a nut
And lined it with warmth and eager talk
As we did a hill-pine wedding-hut.
They hatched a brood all kernel-white,
And while one watched, the other preyed.
Sometimes from Jiunting they would fly
Right to our window, unafraid,
And there on the sill, as at a pool,
See-saw themselves and dip their beaks
To crumbs in our hands, and balance or rise.
Or swivel on flutters with stretched-out necks.
Two men came with saws to the tree.
The saws breathed harshly, the tall tree swayed.
And its leaves shivered in a windless day.
The mudlarks cried and hovered, afraid.
And out of reach—while the tree stood—
Absurd little beaks that never shut
Soundlessly begged to be fed and warmed
In the hard mud nest that looked like a nut.
The tree fell and the mudlarks left,
But kept returning, as men to a grief.
Till the grief grows old and men, as birds,
Do not return but carry a leaf
Of the sorrow with them, withered and cold . . .
Spring will again be sweet and green,
But she may not perch on window-sills
With mating birds, to be better seen.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


FOR BUSINESS
m
m
~,
m
mmm
iSi
As a business investment your
choice in tyres must be Good-
year. Many claims are made for
tyres, but claims will not make
a tyre good. When you need
tyres, remember this—Goodyear,
in its world-wide organisation,
has built over 600,000,000 tyres
—millions more than any other
manufacturer. Remember, too,
that Goodyear Tyres have been
world’s first choice since 1915*
OR PLEASURE
mm
&
It’s a pleasure to drive on
Goodyear Tyres. The safety of
the road-gripping treads and
tough bodies—the comfort—
the outright dependability of
Goodyear Tyres have made
them the world’s first choice
for nearly four decades. For
38 years it has been true every
year that: "More people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.”
GOODYEAR
TYRES & TUBES
Goodyear Tyres are available Now
in all sizes at your Goodyear Dealers
MLIa
absent “Whatever is Georgians,
up to?” the sisters asked each
other, as they leaned over the
five-barred gate, and watched
Fragrance’s briskly moving
figure diminish in the distance.
■pRAGRANCE was sad, of
course, but Nature offered so
many amenities. Her nostrils
brought her the intoxicating tang
of the brier rose-bushes that
bordered the road. Giving a
free demonstration of the
subtlety of their perfume, scores
of orange-trees, from the many
citrus-orchards hidden among
the undulations of the rich, red
soil, evoked memories of
Mendelssohn, not unpleasingly.
The zephyr that played about
her head had, it seemed, no
very clear purpose; it would
puff from the east or west, in
tentative gusts, and as she
walked Fragrance realised that,
in her heart, some curious bird-
like visitant was chirping gaily.
It was the joy of youth. It was
the sap of life! She was too
nice a girl to know that, as she
savored the beauty of the
summer day, as she “eat the air,”
as they say, her own flags were
out, flying bravely.
Above her the sky receded in
ever-deepening rifts and drifts
of blue. As she looked up she
saw infinity, and, in due time,
below it, the rusty tin roof of
Laburnum Cottage, its ragged
garden cheered only by the
wind’s favors; some cornflowers
and bachelor’s-buttons, and a
stray rose or two half-strangled
by honeysuckles.
As die lifted the latch, there,
beyond the broken gate, were the
two children, James and
Jacintha, even more ragged,
even more neglected than the
garden. They stood hand in
hand on the pathway, their faces
dirty, their hair unkempt, the
buttons of necessity undone;
tears had made runnels in the
grime on their cheeks.
“I can’t see Mama anywhere,’’
Fragrance could hear James say-
ing, and she watched, a moment,
the two upturned faces, intent on
finding their lost mother, scan
the unutterable blue.
“She’s not there.”
When, turning at the sound of
her footsteps, they saw their
visitor, they did not run to meet
her, but a peculiar, desperate
expression came over their
ravaged faces, and, when she
reached them, they clutched at
her skirts with hands that would,
it seemed, never let go.
Quite clearly she gathered that
the children were perfectly aware
of the miserable showing they
made, and that they felt bereft
to have, to placate her, none of
the allure, no cherubic baits and
blandishments to win kindness,
which they guessed, instinctively,
to be the best cards where their
elders were concerned. They
had been through it all so often!
The brushed hair! The washed
face! The clean garment! The
“being good .” They felt their
poverty, but they clutched.
Nothing would make them let
go their hold of her. And they
could, they seemed to realise, be
“good”; not cry, not make a
noise, not ask questions. Yes,
this they could do; this they
did. But they did cling!
Her skirts so trammelled,
Fragrance walked up the path to
the door that opened on the
veranda, and as she went she
wondered “Where on earth could
the two great-aunts have vanished
to?”
Her question was answered as
soon as, mentally, asked. Miss
Tabitha Boisragon’s face
appeared at the window of the
attic set in a gable in the centre
of the iron roof, a living
gargoyle, of ghastly aspect.
“Thank God someone has
come! Patience and I are ill.
We have that awful disease the
soldiers have brought back with
them from the Crimea! I
thought yesterday we were
dying, the pair of u,s! We cannot
stir out of bed, and dare not let
the children near us! Dear
Georgiana came yesterday, and
the day before, and she was
promised for today ; but she has
not come! She had arranged,
too”—Miss Tabitha stopped.
“I feel far too faint to stay
longer.”
The head disappeared.
“Georgiana! So that is what
she has been up to! Extra-
ordinary creature! ” Astonished,
Fragrance went into the cottage.
She cared for the children, and
fed them, spoonful by spoonful,
alternately, for they would not
release their hold of her skirt;
and she was beginning quite to
plumb the depths of the need
their dumb acquiescence showed ;
they had been left; abandoned,
in a world that was a jungle of
fears; it is the child’s most
haunting phobia, this instinct,
this fear of being left all alone.
As she busied herself over the
children’s wants, as she tried to
comfort them and reassure
them, as she felt pity for them
stir in her heart, she still told
herself “Oh, yes! This I will
do! Poor dear little mites!
Thus far I will go —but no
further! ” For the seventeen
graves of their brothers and
sisters haunted her thoughts, and
she pictured herself, if she were
married to Peter, adding to their
number, year by year, as poor
Letty had done. “No, they must
find someone else to mother
them. I shall not!”
WHEN she heard the Hyde
Park, with its clattering pair
of chestnuts, draw up at the
gate, and Dr. Boisragon’s hasty
step walk firmly up the bricked
pathway, looking out through the
narrow French window Frag-
rance half expected to see
Georgiana with him. But no ;
he was alone. He went
immediately up to the two attics
and she could hear the sounds
of ministration and amelioration
as he visited Miss Tabitha and
Miss Patience in their sick-beds.
Knowing the cottage, which his
family had used during the
holiday-time, in summer, for
many years, he went up and
down between the kitchen and
the attics, finding, presumably,
all he wanted; while Fragrance
sat on in the darkening room
with the children both bundled,
in an uncomfortable abundance,
in her lap. They were falling
asleep, but nothing made them
loosen their hold of her.
When Dr. Boisragon walked
in and, pulling a stiff chair out
from the wall, placed it in front
of her armchair, he did not rouse
the drowsy pair; and he made
no effort to drop his voice as,
his hands on his knees, his feet
almost touching hers, he said,
violently, as if the question had
been bottled up within him, and
had, explosively, now, at long
last, found utterance, “I am not
getting the sympathy I should
in my bereavement. Why?”
The small room was full of
the presence of the dead wife.
There was the work-basket, in
some semng showed
STSS.
=i sl s
iSS§
and m the two sleeping races in
her lap Fragrance could trace
their mother; all her children,
even those whose span of life
had been counted by minutes, all
had been like her
Fragrance looked yaguely.
round, hoping for inspiration,
Dr. Boisragon waited, fixing her
elusive glance when he could
catch its wandering gaze.
“Why?”
“Qh, don’t you guess that
people are really full of
Apathy? Surely everyone
tells you how much they feel for
you, Peter?”
§he sounded unconvincing.
ople speak to me only of
, Letty!’ How sad her
i:f e was t tragic her loss
l K m children! ‘Poor
OI so many
Letty!’ they say. No one says
‘Poor Peter!’ No one! That
is not the worst. They look”
his eyes wavered from their
unblinking stare —“as if They dis-
approved of me! As if they
blamed me for Letty’s death. It
is most unjust. When a woman
loses a child, her greatest con-
solation is to have another child
to take its place. It is right and
natural for a woman to bear
children:. Don’t you agree?”
“I am rather uninformed
about such matters,” Fragrance
hedged. And as she spoke she
was aware that her own dislike
of Peter must show in her face.
Dr. Boisragon gave a short
contemptuous laugh; it was, as
Fragrance remembered of old,
his one form of merriment, this
sound that so reflected on the
wit of his companion.
“You are thirty, I imagine, not
a girl in the schoolroom! Shut
up as you have been, even you
would know something of life.
You have seen your six sisters
coirie into the world, haven’t
you? People have expressed no
revulsion at that? Why should
they shrink from me as they
do? Why? I ask you.”
“I expect your loss makes you
sensitive, Peter, and that people
do not really—as you say—
‘shrink’ from you.”
“When the first ten or twelve
children died —so soon after
their birth—was Letty to be a
childless woman? Eh? She
wanted a family! One boy lived
till he was twelve —that was
encouraging. A family of
twenty, had they lived, is almost
the average, nowaday! You
know that perfectly well! Look
at the Edens, the Buckleberrys,
the Rants, the Ridgeworths—all
families of twenty or over.
And I could think of scores of
others. And that is not the
worst of what I have to suffer.”
Whatever revelation was
coming now. Fragrance felt,
was forced from him by the
absolute need of communica-
tion ; a pressing need of human
companionship as great as the
children had shown her, by the
frantic hands that so clutched,
and that now, even in sleep, had
so convulsive a hold of her dress.
His nearness to her, in his black
clothes, mourning of so abysmal
a type that it seemed to challenge
(Continued on page 23)
PROTHALAMIUM
White tern, that rode the wind
in cycle of life and death
plunged down to strike behind
the green wave’s flying breath.
I sang from cliffs: This tide
shall yet engulf the earth
that, barren, has denied
my imaged love her birth.
I sang through leaves of fire,
I sang through rising pale
mauve gums as sings the lyre-
bird through his quivering veil.
There, crouching rock and rock
rose from the mould to be
my listeners, and to lock
in the iris sea.
Tall, by the grey cliff’s plinth,
a flower rose from the ground:
the purple hyacinth-
orchid that 1 found.
Fear versed me in that school
of thought. To that same place
I lead this beautiful
girl with the hawk-like face.
Before the iris deep,
that in the gully lies,
up from their mould-dark sleep
orchid and orchid rise.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


AUSTRALIA'S FAMOUS QUIZ KIDS..
Seen here with Quizmaster John Dease, admire the
Grand Prize in the Band Aid Jingle Contest. You’ll hear
all the details on Sunday night when you listen to the
Quiz Kids —evergreen radio favourites for over 11 years.
Brought to you with the good wishes of Johnson and
Johnson, the Quiz Kids are heard on Sunday night at 7.30
(except 3AW-CV —8.30 Fridays).
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service
2GB,
2 HR.
2MG,
SAW,
2CA,
2LF,
4BH,
2WL,
3CV,
SDN,
2PK,
4BU,
6IX,
2 MW,
4GY,
7HO,
2LT,
7LA
Plus 40 other Commercial Broadcasting Stations throughout the nation
kuv mom saw.
SANDERS
tfJ(S»FILES
Correspondence. I o v o Ic• •.
statements, elc.. Died In the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into o
period book oi reference ai
the end of each n.jnth —ot
any other period.
•r;.-
Price* and far-
ther mtorinaClea
■ pan applicattait
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agenx* — , TM
MELBOURNE ~ Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
A DFTiAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Lta.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book Co. (Ainu)
Quiet Escape
by
DAVID
REES
THE tunnel-opening was a
black disk skewered to the
green wall of the hill by the
rail-tracks disappearing into
it. Coal-skips stood on the
tracks away from the tunnel and
a wire rope lay writhed and
twisted beside them. The tracks
led from the tunnel to the
screens, black-mouthed and
grimy, and all about was the
coal-dust smudging the clean
freshness of the bush. Gum-
trees, hugging one another with
their crooked arms, stood about
the tunnel-mouth and fenced the
clearing with their grey and
leaning trunks.
A tin shed covered with a
layer of grey dirt leant against
the edge of the bush. One end
of it served as an office and the
other as a lunch- and change-
room for the miners. Another
heap of galvanised-iron in the
centre of the clearing was a
machine-shop and tool-room ; a
smaller companion was the
shower-room.
He took a black bag from the
back of his car and went to the
office. As he went in the mine-
manager rose from a small table.
In his fifties, the manager was
small, thin-faced ; the hair show-
ing below the miner’s helmet was
grey. His eyes shone white and
round from a black background
of smeared coal-dust.
“You made good time—we’ll
go straight in, I think. Any-
thing you want we can send out
for. Come in and I’ll give you a
light.”
The vet. put his bag on the
smudged counter and followed
the manager behind a partition
where rows of miners’ lights,
with their grey-silver battery-
boxes, were hanging from pegs.
The manager gave him one. He
slipped the battery-box into a
pocket of his overalls, and the
light apd rubber lead into
another.
“What’s the story? The
message I got was pretty
sketchy,” he said.
The manager led the way out
of the office.. “Oh, you know,
the old story. He had a fair pace
up. It was the top of the incline.
Tie wheeler missed with the
sprag, and of course the skips
came down on top of him as they
gathered speed.”
“And he’s pinned?”
“Yes. Down on his side with
a skip over him.”
They left the splashed sunlight
of the clearing and the poised
solemnity of the gum-trees and
entered the shaft-opening. As
they went in, a row of electric-
lights sprang away in a long
curve. Grey stone showed be-
tween the timbers; and they
walked on a carpet of fine coal
beaten hard by the tramp of the
horses’ hooves. The rail-tracks
swirled with the curve of the
tunnel and carried a gleam of
light. The thick sticky under-
ground darkness was scarcely
split by the lights, and patches
of gloom came in waves. He
found he was using all his eyes
for the task of walking.
'T'HEY had walked for half-a-
mile when the curve of the
tunnel brought the accident
scene to their feet. The part-
gloom showed the outlines of
skips in the background, some
on the tracks, others standing
off where the tunnel suddenly
widened. Here another necklace
of lights hung away into the
darkness where the tunnel split
off. The tunnel they were in
disappeared upwards, suspended
beneath its row of lights. Right
in front of him an overturned
skip blocked the tunnel and he
could see the hind-legs of the
horse beneath it.
“Here’s the vet., Bert,” came
a voice from beneath a pair of
white eyes sunk into a black
smudge.
“Uh-huh. Better climb over
to this side, male.” The speaker
was kneeling on the horse’s head.
The vet. climbed gingerly over
the skip, and the manager passed
across his gear. Now he saw the
animal’s plight. It was wedged
beneath the upturned skip. It
heaved and shuddered. Sweat
had pushed the hair up in
patches all over its body; its
limbs were matted and caked
with grey mud. The eye was
wild and a clump of coal-dust
floated in its corner. Heavy
breaths snorted from nostrils
showing red. One forefoot was
caught between the floor of the
vehicle and the axle, and the
other was jammed through a
broken bottom-board.
He stooped to see more closely.
The animal heaved; its head
lifted and threw Bert off
balance. The hind limbs
drummed on the timbers of the
shaft. As the horse struggled,
the men tensed, feeling the
animal’s trapped hopelessness.
Tom, standing near Bert, jumped
to help him pin its head again.
“Woo, boy!” said Ollie in the
background, sounding forced
and strained.
“Steady, mate,” said Bert,
with a touch of testiness—he’d
been there for an hour.
“I shall want a bucket of
warm water —could you get it?”
said the vet., peering across at
the manager through the curtain
of fine grey dust. He knelt and
opened his bag to prepare for
the job.
He felt his mind drawn into a
thin taut line, as though his will
were drawing into full view his
whole course of action and its
logical conclusion. Seen thus
the events were in sequence;
clear, iaid-down, inevitable,
There was no hesitation, no
weighing of one line of action
against another, no indecision,
His hands moved with the ease
and quickness born of practice
He was of the newer breed,
young, trained, keen and active,
He was no new edition of the
old school of “horse-doctor ” but
5
a manifestation of a cleaner,
neater schooling. Not cluttered
with horsey superstitions and
old-wives’ tales, he brought to
the task a swifter, surer judg-
ment. Five years in practice gave
his hands their decision of move-
ment, his actions the ring of
authenticity. But the fine sharp
lines in his face and tenseness
around his mouth betrayed the
concentration still needful for
the job. There was not yet the
relaxation of action and the
calmer wisdom of the man with
long years behind him. A flicker
of annoyance lit his mind as Bert
the groom made suggestions.
ITE went to the neck of the
horse and clipped off a
patch of hair over the jugular
vein. With cotton-wool and
disinfectant he cleaned the bare
patch, removing a layer of grey
mud and black coal-dust. The
patch showed up cleanly against
the surrounding dirt. The horse
struggled again, raising the grey
dust and making the men. move
as if they were puppets, on wires
worked by the animal’s
movements.
He filled a syringe with local
anaesthetic solution, fitted a fine
short needle to its nozzle, and
knelt over the neck. The
manager came back and handed
the bucket of water across the
skip. There was no sound save
the heavy snorting of the pinned
animal. The men were leaning,
watching. He recleaned the
clipped area and pushed the
needle quickly under the skin.
A tiny hill rose up in front of
the needle as the fluid was
pushed from the syringe. Pulling
out the needle he rubbed the
area to disperse the fluid. The
patch of skin over the jugular
vein was now without sensation,
ready for the heavier-gauge
needle necessary for giving the
general anassthetic.
He fitted the cap and long
rubber tube of a flutter-valve
apparatus to a pint bottle of
general anaesthetic solution, and
handed the bottle and tube to
Tom. Taking the heavy-gauge
wide-bore needle, he bent over
the horse’s neck, and pressed his
thumb across the jugular vein
below the spot he had
anaesthetised. The vein rose up
in a long cord above his thumb.
He pierced the skin with the
needle, altered its direction and
pushed it into the vein. A thin
hard stieam of blood spurted and
curved away from the needle,
falling and staining a long bright
track.
“Turn the bottle upside-down
and hand me the end of the
tube,” he said quickly to Tom.
He fitted the end of the tube
to the needle, and the soft suck
and bubble of the flutter-valve
told of the fluid passing into the
vein. The eye at first frightened,
quietened and glazed. The hind
limbs kicked, slithered once or
twice and were quiet. The
heavy snorting changed to a
deep sighing. The eye moved
slowly one way and flickered
suddenly back the other, and he
knew deep anaesthesia had
arrived. Pinching the skin and
needle together, he withdrew the
needle, squeezed the fold of skin
to close the small hole, and
wiped away a tiny spreading
ooze of blood. The horse lay
still and loose.
“He’s under now. Let’s get
this skip away.”
VjylTH the horse inert, lifting
’ * the skip was easy. They
prised out the broken board with
a sprag and eased the foot from
the jagged opening. The other
foot came out easily from
between the boards and the axle.
Two of them bending, tensing,
straining and lending direction
to the effort, the skip eased away
and turned over. It was moved
along to the wider part of the
shaft.
They removed collar and
harness from the horse. The
skin above the fetlock on the
near foreleg was torn and lying
back and the wound shone redly,
edged by a crust of grey mud.
The hair near by was matted
with hardened blood. A slow
(Continued on page 34)
REQUEST TO A YEAR
If the year is meditating a suitable gift,
I should like it to be the attitude
of my great-great-grandmother,
legendary devotee of the arts;
who having had eight children
and little opportunity for painting pictures,
sat one day on a high rock
beside a river in Switzerland,
and from a difficult distance viewed
her second son, balanced on a small ice-floe,
drift down the current towards a waterfall
that struck rock-bottom eighty feet below,
while her second daughter, impeded,
no doubt, by the petticoats of the day,
stretched out a last-hope alpenstock
(which luckily later caught him on his way.)
Nothing, it was evident, could be done;
and with the artist’s isolating eye
my great-great-grandmother hastily sketched the
scene.
The sketch survives to prove the .story by.
Year, if you have no Mother’s Day present planned,
reach back and bring me the firmness of her hand.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Elements of an Industry
No. 15 of a series.
»
aMti
mm
''III
m
iwy
■
m
ZINC The element zinc occurs in “zinc blende”—a natural form of
zinc sulphide - and in certain ores of lead and silver. A hard bluish-
white metal, zinc was originally produced only in China and Suma r,
and substantial quantities were once mined in Britain, but most o e
world’s supply now comes from the Americas and Australasia. Centuries
before zinc was discovered in the metallic form, the Ancient Greek
were smelting its ores with copper to make brass, an alloy that has
become indispensable to modern industry. Apart from its use m alloys
zinc is chiefly important to-day for coating or “galvanising iron sheet
and wire to give protection against rust. Zinc is also used as a roo n
material and in the manufacture of casings for dij batteries, fittings o
motor cars and plates for printing. Compounds of the element are well-
known in such diverse fields as medicine, dyeing and paint manufacture.
In addition to producing zinc wire and strip for the electrical industry,
1.C.1. makes zinc-chrome pigments for paints and zinc compounds for
nrocessing of rubber. In Australia, zinc chloride, produced at the
ICIANZ Chemical Factory at Yarraville, is used in the manufacture o
soldering fluxes and activating pastes for dry batteries.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ICI
.one a -ee "1.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARA|
ATl***
H cA
sc> A
pi T,s
SA&°
lIIH
[l**
eff*
lia* 1 *
fRO"
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fißrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
, DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
* DOLClti has been a standard treatment for the past
fivG years.
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world. . . . ......
. DOLCIN is easy to take la tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGXN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent o a request to Dolan
(Australia) Pty. Ltd* Bos >552,
GJ>.O. t Sydney.
his critics rather than express his
sorrow, quite overpowered her,
so fierce was his demand,on her
attention.
Peter struck her as being not
sad, but emotionally disturbed to
such an extent that he was
unselfconscious, for he had
dropped all those mannerisms
with which she was familiar ; the
constant rearrangement of the
satin stock, the continual pulling
into place of the expensive waist-
coat and neat cuffs, the recurrent
movement that pushed back the
lock of hair from his forehead
with a flat caressing palm, the
I touch that pulled the handker-
chief in his breast-pocket into
just the brief appearance he
desired ; for his strong self-love
showed itself in such ways.
The face that fronted Frag-
rance now, in the faded light of
the small, ill-fit room, showed
white, a blurr without accent,
though it was so close, and the
large hands planted so firmly on
the muscular knees almost
touched her own where, cramped
and hot, the sleeping children a
deadweight in her arms, she
faced him, shrinking; she had
new disliked him more
violently.
He took the plunge.
“Why is Letty haunting me ?”
Fragrance glanced down. The
children slept soundly.
“As if the dislike I see ih
almost every face was not
enough! I tell you, Fragrance,
I was a good husband ; I was an
indulgent husband! It is not
fair! What happens? Directly
I fall asleep I see my dead wife
as I saw her last, with a face
I did not know! And she floats
across the room towards me, as
if there was a movement like a
tide under her coffin, as if the
air were water sustaining it,
rocking it and knock! knock!
I hear it hit the bed; and there
is her face beside me, looking
furiously up at me. Yes! When
one has a nightmare, usually one
I wakes. One can leave the
horror. But I cannot escape her.
I cannot wake. Presently that
uneasy sea - like movement
carries her away* to wait —to
lurk malevolently—in a corner
of the bedroom ; then on she
comes again! Knock! knock /
And I look over the side of my
bed, and there is that furious
face! I tell you, I can’t stand
this! I must marry again—at
once! And what will people
say? Eh? When they don’t
know why ?”
the room, from the
narrow hall, came a sound
of arrival; brisk steps, but no
voices; only a package was put
down, and one set of footsteps
moved upstairs while the other
came, heavily, to the closed door
of the room that seemed then
for Fragrance to be full of
another presence than those
visible to her.
She felt both children start
as if this sound of the coming
feet could peach them, having
been waited for so desperately,
even in sleep. First Peter, then
Jacintha, stirred and sat up, and,
as the door opened, slipped from
her lap, with a shout of joy.
“Nannie!”
It was the riotious prelude to
a hurricane of noise. The
tongues were loosened, the
chatter unceasing, as the two
children danced round Nannie.
All they had seen done, all was
poured out in a stream of the
liveliest, the gayest talk. Frag-
rance felt that all the stability,
all the blessed sequences of life
had become real for the children
again, in the presence of Nannie,
and her “Now, Master James!
I’m shocked at you. Shame on
you. Miss Jacintha! Well I
never!” —the authentic voice of
security!
Pattering feet ran lightly down
the steep attic stairs. Georgiana
entered the sitting-room, a glow-
ing lamp held high. She set it
cheerfully on a table. There was
a remote but recognised cousin-
ship between the families, which,
perhaps, sufficiently excused
Georgiana’s kiss and her caress-
ing. “Dear Peter! How tired
you must be! You will want
tea? Or do you prefer to take
a brandy-and-soda? I have both
ready.”
Dr. Boisragon chose tea.
His melancholy air, when
accepting her kiss, lightened per-
ceptably, almost to the point
of becoming debonair. Happily
preening, he pulled down the
black waistcoat, eased back the
adventuring cuffs, calmed with
the flat, affectionate palm the
black locks.
Tea was on a white table in a
miraculously short time.
Georgiana, perfectly demure
and wifely, one would say, dis-
Ipensed it, pouring hot water into
each cup to warm the china,
cradling each in small hands,
conjuring up so important, so
gay a ceremony, with a tinkle of
spoons and clink of silver, the
big urn brilliant in its own flame,
that her tea-making assumed
almost the importance of a ritual,
it was so expressive of goodwill.
The hot scones were delicious,
the cake Peter’s favorite ginger-
urea<l *
“I asked Nannie, dear Peter,
and she told me all your likes
and dislikes! ” Her voice showed
her to be comfortably competent
to cope with domestic matters.
“Oh, my dear, I had such a
hunt to find Nannie for you! It
was through baby’s nurse, Mrs.
Peachy, at Carefree Farm, that
at last I ran her to earth, at
Mallow’s Marsh Rectory, where
she had gone to visit her sister.”
“Our invaluable Nannie had
gone off on a week’s holiday,
and her niece, Bessie Blinks (if
you please), was to ‘oblige,’ but
the child’s heart failed her. How-
ever, we fetched her back,
bodkin!” she interpolated in an
aside for Fragrance’s benefit.
“Just one more scone, dear
Peter. We must cosset you!”
He was persuaded.
“Nannie and I have been spin-
ning round the countryside in the
gig all day, dear Peter, on your
behalf,” Georgiana continued
blithely. “And we had to fetch
Nannie’s things from” the tea-
pot was held in obeyahce—
“where do you think! Mrs,
Wirraway's! I knew in my
bones that they had designs on
Nannie!”
“I had to bring my carpet-bag,
which I had left ready packed,
from home, and tell Mama that
I would be staying till the
aunts were on the mend” the
explanation, made sotto voce,
was again for Fragrance.
Fragrance was stunned
with amazement. She was
not less astonished when Bessie
Blinks, rung for, had taken tea
away and Nannie, rigid with
starch, had appeared with the
children, burnished for their
hour’s playtime, and Nannie and
Georgiana had consulted in
murmurous voices in the door-
way in a manner that illuminated
so plainly that they were “in
league.”
“Nannie approves! this
knowledge gave Fragrance her
biggest jolt. . -
It was Georgiana s involuntary
sigh of pure ecstasy, childlike in
its betrayal, that quite disarmed
her sister’s criticism when she
swooped next on the children,
to play knucklebones on the rug,
“Poor little Georgiana! Let
her have Peter!” Fragrance
thought, and she was further
disarmed when, on her departure,
Georgiana followed her to the
front door, to say, not in excuse,
but in explanation, “I have
always adored Peter! Won-
derful, wonderful man! Oh,
darling Fragrance! If only
he would care for me half as
fondly as I dote on him! Oh,
I should be the happiest of
women! ”
And the great mournful eyes
looked more abysmal than ever
in their dog-like suffering.
LOOKING back from the
brick pathway Fragrance saw
the cottage alight in every
window, and eloquent of the life
within. James, in the nursery,
was being naughty (allowing
himself that luxury through sheer
relief, she divined), and she could
picture the feminine flutterings of
Georgiana and Nannie in
attempting to deal with him ; and
Dr. Boisragon waiting below,
ready to reinforce their pro-
longed struggles.
How scented the dusk, how
washed with gold!
Fragrance turned her thoughts
to her vineyard, now rustling
with vigor, floury with the
promise of increase; and she
thought of her father, dear man!
There was no one in the world so
lovable! Then and there she
reaffirmed her previous intention
never to marry. There was a
career for her, a more adven-
turous life, in the care of the
vats and vines.
All the richness of this
ambition was made more
beautiful to her by the evening
splendor of hill and dale. An
upturned face showed her her
own sky, her own stars! The
orchard scents and hedgerow
perfumes of brier and honey-
suckle were hers to enjoy. She
was in her* own country, in her
father’s house. “A woman may
enjoy the ardor of patriotism, as
well as a man,” she reflected;
“I may refuse to be a slave to
one man, I am free to give a
devoted service to my fellows.”
“No row of graves in Parra-
matta cemetery for me,” she
resolved. She toyed with the
notion of “Miss Fragrance
Thistledew’s sparkling hock.”
“Miss Thistledew, of Gander’s
Pond, after much research, has
succeeded with a light cham-
pagne, equalling French vintage.”
She had walked the short path
slowly; she had been much
shattered. She was so intent on
sniffing for comfort the sweet
evening air, and renewing her
acquaintance with the twinkling
stars and sorting out her reso-
lutions as to her future, that a
sound half-heard in her emo-
tional turmoil had progressed in
tone from a faint harmony to an
operatic splendor of melody,
before she realised its ludicrous,
its inevitable diapason, which
closed full on man; for on the
road a splendid bass voice was
singing, with every organ-stop
full out, “La Marseillaise,’’ in
native-sounding French. Was
it —at last! —a French sailor?
“Mais oui!” Fragrance
laughed to herself, “Oui, merci!”
She stepped, in her light print
dress, aside from the gate, as
being too revealing, and peeped
through the ragged hedge.
PERCEPTIONS
Give me the moon to swing the
door
And let the bird’s wild honey in,
And I will tell philosophers
How they came by tongue and
ear.
Give me the stars, give me the
night, *
And I will show what senses are:
A spirit seeking clarity
Builds with stepping-stones of
light.
Give me sweet clarity of mind
And stars are crystals, thumb-
nail views
Elsewhere are flowers, that over-
flow
And fill horizons like the wind.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Whatever you HAUL
whatever you DELIVER
i
Imported model L-192
heavy-duty truck (142-
inch wheelbase).
dfg
Australian-made model
AL-160 medi um-heavy-
duty truck (172-inch
wheelbase).
df
1
{Wffllrr,:
Australian-made model
AL-130 light truck
(134-inch wheelbase).
There’s on Internotionol (or your job
you operate the largest fleet of trucks or
the smallest unit, it's in your interest before buying
to first inspect International trucks.
Increased manufacture at International Harvester's
Dandenong Works assures availability of Australian-made
Internationals in the light, medium and medium-heavy-
duty field.
In the heavy-duty field your need can be met by the
imported heavy-duty Internationals.
The ideal all-purpose vehicle for your light carrying
problems is the International model AL-110 utility featured
below. Its Australian-made Silver Diamond engine has a
reserve of durability that puts extra quality and economy
into International light-duty trucks. The sturdy truck
chassis and extra large payload area are ideally balanced
and flexibly sprung to give you passenger car comfort.
Experienced drivers are keen on it women handle it
with ease. It will carry you and your goods with complete
security and comfort anywhere, anytime.
Let your International Harvester district sales office,
distributor or dealer tell you more about it.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria}
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
>
ill
Right for cargo, hauling time
and distance—that's the answer
when you use international
trucks! So plan to speed up
schedules and cut costs with
more miles from an Inter-
national's daily operation.
Australian-made model AL-110 utility (115-inch
wheelbase).
U3IS3AUVH
IVNOIIVNMSISiI
H
MT36O-40
McCormick Internationa!
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial PeweF
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN MADELINE DURHAM late of
475 Illawarra Hoad, Marrickville. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAVID JOHN DURHAM
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3199
of 1951 on the grounds of desertion
without iust grounds of excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the fifteenth
day of May One thousand nine hundred
and fifty three and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HARRIS R-
MITCHELL & EVANS, Solicitors, of 350
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAh,
Registrar.
IN THE COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GERARD McHUGH late of 22 Bradley
Avenue Bellevue HiH. —TAKE NOTICE
that RUBY IRENE McHUGH has filed a
Petition for Divorce Number 4584 on 19ot
on the ground of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for 3 years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 22nd day of May 1963 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from N. 0. ROWLES & TOWNSHEND,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, SydaijrW.
DOUQHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy for private collection,
photos, oW ancl new, of jugglers.—
5464 -
To buy copy of novel Little Houses
by George Woden.-5466.
F J° , buy J®?P y of Mackie’s Masonic
Tfv J i . r , •
BohemZby Norman LktdS—s46?
y man Lindsay. 5463.
fnfnrmati’rkn Qn.mkt
intormation Sought
I have heard it claimed that the
plague known as the Black Death in
the Middle Ages raised the standard
of living of the peasantry in England.
Is this true, and if so how ?
For i .
ramtoSlS 5
nnthini S »° oo len a. pro i a bl y y .®?- bLit
tori^f B ’r a l F?° l l ing , to Br d. isb his-
Snlt?A ?/ore
than , the degree
whirh r,?°o^ rCy °, r we J bbeing ’
ww d K 8r * e f l y not °? y tr °™
iSffir/fand
i - WOrSt) °L l he T
49 thPd ™ CS -Ki aS th u at u° f
49 > i?* P lld ’ P oss bly a half, of the
inhabitants of England died in it, and
h ’h° i course, was a great
shortage of labor. Laborers were
therefore able to demand (and get)
two and three times their former
P ougb fj® Statutes of Laborers
(1351), designed to keep wages and
pnees down to the former levels, pro-
vided severe punishment for work-
men demanding higher wages and
employers paying them. (It was found
impracticable to implement these laws
in all regions ) With the rise in wages,
prices naturally also rose, though not
to the same extent. The average
laborer was probably thus better off.
Ihe Black Death did spur on social
change notably the beginnings of the
stout ’ P lQ speious yeoman classes.
* * * *
How many times has the world's
heavZJS boxfngchamvYonshin
changed hands on a points decision?
The world’s heavyweight champron-
sh|P (under Marquess of Queensberry
ru i es ) has changed hands three times
on points decisions, First occasion
was wlien Gene Tunney outpointed
Jack Dempsey in 10 rounds at Phila-
delphia on September 23, 1926.
atCn m 1928 ’, and
%* ax Schmelmg became recognised as
champion after beating Jack Sharkey
™ ,lf°l. (4 , 0 r 1 T d l ln . New
SP 9^b " Sharkey regained
m® title by outpointing Schmelmg
15 rounds) in New York on June 21,
1932 - Pnmo Camera then knocked-
out Sharkey (6 rounds) on June 29,
1933. and Max Baer stopped Camera
(11 rounds) on June 14, 1934. Last
time the championship changed hands
? n £ p° ints decision was when James
J ‘ Bradd °c k beat Baer (10 rounds)
on June 13 > 1935 - These three title
contests were decided in New York
City.
* * * *
Some details about Percy’s "Reliant
, ! n . l Jf OP out Percy s Kenques
f detent English Poetry ?
It is a collection of ballads, sonnets,
historical songs and metrical romances,
published in 1765 by Thomas Percy,
who became Bishop of Dromore in
1782. The majority of them were
extracted from the Percy Folio, a
manuscript in mid-17th-century hand-
writing, the most important source
of English ballad literature, and were
edited and “restored” by Percy. They
were of very different periods, some
°. f great anti Suity ’, others as recent as
the reign oi Charles I. Ancient
poems drawn from other sources and
m ° re .. modern date were
* ‘
* * * *
What are the objects of the Book
ChLfmZZiJL° C \ ety ° f A “ str “ t . la l' <2)
? (3) ,
when does the Society meetZ (5) Has
an o&Z %
Address of secretary?
(1) To promote and encourage
bibliography and book-collecting and
to provide a meeting-ground for col-
lectors. (2) Membership is open to
ail those who are interested in the
art a nd craft of the book, from the
author to the reader. (3) 10s 6d.
per annum. (4) The last Friday in
every month at the lecture hall, the
Public Library of New South Wales
Macquarie-street, Svdnev (51 “Rihlin-
news’’is momhlLo me®tos
and specialises in matters of interest
for both students and collectors (6)
Box 905, G.PO Sydney W
, oyemey.
* * * *
Some details about the artist John
Skinner Prout?
, . . c
A nephew of Samuel Prout, he was
born in Plymouth in 1806. He was
mainly self-taught, and arrived in
Sydney in 1840, obtaining employment
a .time painting scenery at the
Olympic Theatre. In 1844 he went
to Hobart, where he found a demand
for his landscapes and where he
organised the first art exhibition ever
held in Australia. He visited Victoria,
a nd sketched in and around Mel-
bourne and Geelong, then returned
to England in 1848 and lived for
many years in Bristol, where he pub-
fished a book on the antiquities of
that city. Prout is represented in the
South Kensington Museum, the
Sydney, Hobart and William Dixson
galleries, the Mitchell Library and the
Commonwealth National Library,
Canberra, where there are 45 drawings
made in N - S - W -> Victoria and Tas-
of some
of his Tasmanian and Victorian
watercolors and pencil sketches. He
died at Camden Town, London, in
1876.
R* f A
Brief Answers
8.E .: Long Range Weather Fore-
c *s tln § by W ’ Nowland - Obtain-
able from the author at. 95 Barker-
Casino (N.5.W.)... .L.P.:
Sci ' ge r Stavis^ y (1866-1934) was a
natura l ise d Frenchman of Russian
res P°“ible for a financial
scanda , in Trance in 1934. He floated
a very large sum in bogus bonds in
tbe „ u aa ™ e ° f municipal credit
establishment of Bayonne. Stavisky
committed suicide after a warrant for
Ms arrest had been issued The
Randal caused the fall of two
Governm ents and a general strike
and . riots in Paris... .W.S.: From
Topic Publications, Box 1911, G.P.0.,
Sydney M.K.: From the British
Council, Wembley Chambers, 104
hunter-street, Sydney... .R.R.Tan-
tlvy 18 a term used in hunting, and
is a cry or call to signal full speed
in the chase... .A.D.N.: The poem
“Stokin’” was written by Will Law-
son. It was signed “Ouilp N ” and
appeared in The Bulletin Reciter
S.M.S.; “If I Could Paint” "by
Henrv T aw«nn was a “PoH p
article, and appeared in Tm Bulletin
of April 8 1899 M K • A drawing
of David Campbell' bv Norman
Lindsay appeared in The Bulletin
of Mav 14 1952 HM- Write
Commonweafih Scientific and Indus-
trial Research Organisatfon 314
Albert-street East Melbourne Vvic )
MS • The “RiVerina” who won
a Bulletin in the
’thirties with “B?umS Green” is a
New Zealand writer named Cecil
Winter... .T.P.P.: The first election
for the Legislative Council in Vic-
toria under the Reform Act, 1950,
which provides for universal adult
franchise, was held on June 21, 1952.
P.L.: Lord Forrest died at sea,
off Sierra Leone, on September 3,
1918.... J.M.: The fossil remains of
the Rhodesian Man were discovered
at Broken Hill Mine, Northern
Rhodesia, in 1921. The bones show
him to have been sft. lOin. tall, thus,
in height and build, very similar to
modern man. Authorities consider
that he was probably alive in Africa
when the Neanderthal type dominated
Europe F.Q.; Stramonium, in
pharmacology, is a drug obtained
from the leaves and seeds of Datura
stramonium, or jimson-weed. It con-
tains the alkaloids daturine and
hyocyamine. It is used as a sub-
stitute for belladonna in asthma,
neuralgia, rheumatism, etc. The
leaves are smoked in a pipe or in
the form of cigarettes for asthma
R.McE.: The Workers’ Educational
Association of New South Wales was
founded at a conference called by the
Labor Council of New South Wales
in June, 1913. It organises tutorial
classes, discussion groups, study-
circles, summer- and holiday-schools,
public lectures, and has a library.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
K.P.8.: No abode in our pages
for a ten-pages description of the
habits of your milkman W.H.C.:
Story beginning “Are you interested
in the hereafter?’’ consigned to the
outer... .F.R.: That’s a troublesome
typewriter you have....C.S.: Your
go-getter will have to practise his
afts elsewhere E.M.D.: Sorry, but
“SOS” earns you no L.S.D
V.T.; Still puzzled as to what that
outburst is about;.. .X.A.: Just below
passable; try again.... G.H.W.: Not
worth a peppercorn... .PJJ.: Defi-
nitely not in the market for stories
about, murder in a New York pent-
house R.C.K.: Only worth a
booby-prize.. . .L.V.: We soon grew
weary of that fusillade of wisecracks.
N.C.McD.: We’ve nothing but
sympathy for the parson whose twin
brother finished up in the drunk’s
cell every Saturday night W.M.N.:
Your wheelbarrow - pusher didn’t
reach the winning - post C.T.:
Jacky’s long plaint about the chastity
of his lubra is not even the shadow
of a story H. 8.: Having wiped
the tears from our eyes we escorted
little Gwendoline gently to the door.
MJ.M.: Only the office-cat was
present at the interment—C.D.:
Almost tempted by the ghost who
had access to bottled beer D.L.S.:
That hash of words received a cold
reception 8.J.8.: Your story did
not live up to the promise of the
opening sentence: “ ’Twas a pleasantly
warm day, and the beer was on at
Mother Murphy’s” S.D.J.: Too
high-flown and precious for us. Come
down to earth and you might stand
a chance N.S.: Smacks too much
of A. E. Coppard’s “The Higgler.”
G.S.P.: Long-winded... .L.T.L.:
So Maisie, while mesmerised, stepped
into the prima donna’s shoes and won
a “thunderous ovation.” It was more
than she did at 252 George-street.
... .N.N.: “The Devil’s Advocate”
was pitchforked into the basket....
A.S.W.; Send it to a daily that likes
that slick style of presentation
H.T.: A dreadful rigmarole about
nothing F.E.: Take away her
sauciness and there is nothing in
Sally G.L.: We were cheered by
the postscript to your covering letter:
“Should this be rejected I shall never
darken your door again” R.D.:
From what English magazine has that
sexton wandered? L.8.H.: A
shapeless yarn... .T.C.S.: Only the
first page turned up. We look for-
ward to the rest with horror—
T.S.L.: Frankly, we soon became
fed-up with gallant Captain Thunder-
clap as he thundered down the ranges.


I
m
'
••
No. 8; HEIGHT: 3'7J"J
6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Gotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi", "Wonderheat and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
F
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Australian Historical Sketches
Cunningham
Finds the Downs
By R. C. HAMILTON
I—VISITORS to the Sydney
\ ) Botanical Gardens may
y notice at the rear of the
kiosk an obelisk standing
on a small island at the lower
end of a shady pool facing Farm
Cove.
The obelisk is almost hidden
by a dense mass of papyrus
reeds which partly conceal the
inscription on it. This records
that here are reinterred the
remains of Allan Cunningham
(who died in July, 1839) which
were removed from the old
Devonshire-street cemetery in
1901, when that ground was
resumed as the site of the present
Central Railway Station.
Behind the little island is a
larger one, and it is fitting that
amongst the palms and ferns
growing on it are some speci-
mens of the stately Bangalow-
palm ( Archontophoenix cunning-
hamiana); but one looks in vain
for good specimens of the tree
with which Cunningham was so
enraptured and which also bears
his name —Araucaria cunning-
hami, the stately hoop-pine,
formerly found abundantly in
Queensland.
To Queenslanders the name of
Cunningham conjures up
thoughts of Cunningham’s Gap
(through which the main high-
way from Brisbane to Warwick
now runs) and the Darling
Downs, but most people still
labor under the misconception
that Cunningham discovered
those famous fertile plains from
the Brisbane side via the gap
called after him. Actually, he
entered them from the west, or
Inglewood, side.
Cunningham, early in 1827,
suggested to Governor Darling
a trip which he had long con-
templated. At that time the
“mystery of the western waters”
was still unsolved. Cunningham
himself had been a member of
Oxley’s party which, in 1817,
had followed the Lachlan, only
to be baffled by the swamps
lower down. In 1818 Oxley
turned his attention to the Mac-
quarie, again to be blocked by
swamps and marshes, and it was
then that he made eastwards to
the coast at Port Macquarie, dis-
covering and crossing the Liver-
pool Plains on the way, on a
line south of the Namoi, running
roughly from Curlewis to
Tamworth.
Cunningham, on that
occasion, was not with him as
he was away with Captain P. P.
King when he made his first
voyage to the north-west coast
of Australia in the cutter
Mermaid.
Cunningham’s proposal was to
explore northwards along a line
running through the present
Tamworth up to a point west of
the penal-settlement at Brisbane.
He wished “to ascertain the
character of. the intervening
country, its vegetation, the nature
of its soil and the number, size
and direction of its streams.”
He hoped, if circumstances
permitted when he reached his
northern point, to make an
excursion into the interior to
investigate the great marshes into
which the western waters were
presumed to flow. If not, he
intended to return southerly
along a line which would have
taken him in the vicinity of our
present railway through Tenter-
field, Glen Innes and Armidale.
Actually, on his homeward trip
the rough, rugged country round
the headwaters of the Bookoo-
koorara (south of the Maryland)
forced him further west into a
part of our present Queensland,
just south of Stanthorpe. Later
—after leaving the great southern
bend of the Dumaresq River
where it makes a turn to the
north-west rough, sterile
country made him decide to
work further westward in order
to cross his outward track, which
he did just south of the present
Warialda Creek. He continued
further west, crossed the Gwydir
below its junction with the
Horton, and then, following up
the Horton southwards, finally
returned to his starting-point,
Segenhoe.
His track, outward and
inward, thus makes a rough
figure-8. Cunningham conse-
quently missed the honor of
being the discoverer of our
eastern New England plateau,
but on his journey northward,
after passing near Warialda, he
found it advisable to veer more
easterly, a change of direction
which resulted in his most out-
standing discovery, of all, the
famous Darling Downs, well
named “the Garden of Queens-
land.”
Situated on a plateau west of
the main range, its healthy,
bracing climate, apart from its
fertile soil, has made the Downs
a health-resort and a favored spot
for, among other things, leading
boarding - schools. Warwick,
round which Cunninghams
route curved, has seven
secondary schools as well as
primary schools.
+ +
Within a few miles’ radius of
Warwick are such noted studs
as McDougall’s Lyndhurst (The
Buzzard —and Peer Shorthorn —
stock); J. H. S, Barnes’s Canning
Downs (Rivoli) and successful
blind breeder Jim Scrymgeour’s
Netherby (Shorthorns), whilst
12 miles south is Risdon, where
Santa Gertrudis cattle from the
King Ranch, Texas (U.S.A.), are
located.
The early portion of Cunning-
ham’s route can be readily
identified. On April 30, 1827,
he left Segenhoe, the head-
quarters of Potter Macqueen’s
estate, whither some of the first
pure Shorthorn cattle had been
brought.
Segenhoe is on the Page River,
a tributary of the Hunter, and
lies , a few miles south-east of
the present township of Scone
and slightly north-east of
Aberdeen. It had been arranged
for the manager, Peter
Maclntyre, to guide the party
over fixe formidable Liverpool
Range.
Cunningham, with six men,
11 horses and some dogs, pro-
ceeded up Dart Brook, another
tributary of the Hunter, a little
further west of the Page, and
followed it up to its head at the
foot of the range. Here he was
joined by Macintyre, who con-
ducted them up a difficult track,
about 16 miles (air-line) south-
west of Murrurundi, so steep in
places that rather than endanger
the lives of the horses the men
had to unload them and carry on
their own shoulders the whole of
their packs.
If Macintyre was acquainted
with Murrurundi Pass, at the
head of the Page itself, through
which have been constructed the
present main road and railway,
he must have had private reasons
for not wishing outsiders to learn
of this easier access to the rich
Liverpool Plains. After all,
Segenhoe was only less than
three years old and the country
as yet little known.
Once over the range, Cunning-
ham’s route took him past places
now known as Quirindi, Quipolly
and Werris Creek. About 20
miles north from this latter
place, he intersected Oxleys
track where that explorer, baffled
by the Macquarie marshes, made
his way eastward to the coast at
Port Macquarie.
Cunningham crossed the
Namoi (his “Mitchell’s River )
a few miles upstream from
Carroll, then proceeded onwards
past Barraba, over the Nandewar
Range, and later across the hills
at the head of Bingara Creek.
He was surprised to find here
“traces of horned cattle, only two
or three days old, as also the
spots on which from eight to a
dozen of these animals had
reposed, at a period so recent
that the grassy blade, which was
of long luxuriant growth, had
not recovered its upright
position.”
+ +
Cunningham followed down
Bingara Creek (his “Stoddart’s
Valley”) to its junction with the
Gwydir River at Bingara. He
had no trouble in crossing the
river, which he at first thought
was the Peel, but later named the
Gwydir. He continued
northerly, and on May 23 came
to “a wide but shallow, reedy
channel of a river, forming,
however, at this season simply
a deep chain of ponds.”
Cunningham had arrived near
the spot where Warialda now
stands on a creek of the same
name, though sometimes called
Reedy Creek.
From this point there has been
much confusion and error as
regards his actual route to • the
Condamine, and especially much
speculation as to the spot at
which he crossed the Dumaresq
into our present State of Queens-
land. I became intrigued with
the problem many years ago. I
followed closely the account of
his trip as given in my copies of
Stuart Russell’s Genesis of
Queensland and Ida Lee’s Early
Explorers of Australia. Later,
at the Mitchell Library, I was
able to consult Cunningham’s
field-books as well as a large
plan of his journey.
This plan is undated and
unsigned, but is certainly later
than the plans shown in Ida
Lee’s book, as it has marked on
it Tamworth and the names
Ben Lomond, Beardy Waters, as
well as the location of the hold-
ings of Bloxsome and Bennett
on the headwaters of the Severn,
It was only after the most
careful comparison with modern
maps, as well as plotting from
the field-books, that I at last
realised that the previous con-
fusion was due to the mistaken
identity of our present streams
with those as named by Cun-
ningham. My first discovery
was that Cunningham’s
“Dumaresq River” is in reality
the Macintyre River of today’s
maps. The task of tracing his
route then became much easier.
It must be remembered that
the year 1827 was one of very
severe drought. Cunningham,
in his report, constantly refers to
the parched state of the vegeta-
tion and the distressed condition
of the country through which he
travelled. He consequently had
little difficulty in crossing many
of the streams on his way.
Indeed, he frequently found their
beds completely dry.
It was this very difficulty of
finding sufficient water and
pasture for his horses that chiefly
influenced him to change his
route more easterly to higher
ground, away from the arid level
patches which he so often found
absolutely destitute of water.
This change of direction it was
that led him to the Darling
Downs.
It was here,, some 13 years
later (1840), that the first real
permanent pastoral settlement in
our present Queensland took
place, when Patrick Leslie and
his flocks, the year after the
death of Cunningham, from
whom he had previously
obtained particulars of his
journey, crossed that same
Dumaresq to squat on the
Downs.
Leslie made his first head-
station at the very spot where
Cunningham first camped on the
Condamine. It was in the year
of Cunningham’s death (1839)
that the Brisbane penal-settle-
ment was broken up, but the
official opening of the land, with
legal right of possession, was
delayed till December, 1842, to
allow of the necessary surveys
and other preliminaries.
Tracing, then, Cunningham’s
route after leaving Warialda, we
find he crossed “the dry, sandy
channel of a creek,” not named,
but actually the headwaters of
Croppa Creek, which Ida Lee
erroneously identifies as Ottley’s
Creek. He passed close to a
“double mountain,” probably
The Brothers, near Mt. Pepper-
box ; then intersected another
dry, sandy river, again not
named, but in reality Ottley’s
Creek (Ida Lee’s “Maclntyre
River”).
Next he crossed the Maclntyre
River, which he called the
Dumaresq, a few miles upstream
from Yetman. He describes it
as “presenting a handsome
reach, 30yds. wide and evidently
very deep.” He was forced to go
half-a-mile up its left bank to
find a suitable fording-place.
+ +
From there he travelled
through a long stretch of arid,
sandy forest without the smallest
indication of water, until he
arrived at a small stream, falling
westerly, but at this time “a dis-
united chain of ponds” (Camp-
bell’s Creek).
Cunningham then had the
greatest difficulty in getting
through some very dense
thickets, but shortly afterwards
came upon “a beautiful sward
of grass, permanently watered by
an active stream.” This he
named “Macintyre Brook” ; it is
our present Dumaresq.'
He spent some time in fording
this stream owing to its depth
and rapidity of its current, his
crossing-point being just south
of Beebo. That same day
(Wednesday, May 30), after
reaching the opposite bank, he
almost immediately again had
to force his way through more
very compact thickets ; the creek
on which Beebo is situated is
appropriately called Brush Creek.
J. F. Campbell, usually a com-
petent and accurate authority, is
obviously incorrect in making
the crossing of the Dumaresq
west of its junction with
Macintyre Brook (R.A.H.S.,
Vol. 17, 1931).
Ida Lee thought it was a little
to the south-east of Wyemo, but
this, too, makes it too far west.
On June 1 Cunningham
crossed our present Macintyre
Brook near Cobbadamana, east
of Inglewood. This is not men-
tioned by Stuart Russell or Ida
Lee, but on the plan is marked
“the channel of a swamp-oak
rivulet dipping n.-n.-w.”
From there, he passed close
to Bodumba Creek; some early
maps show his “Brushy Valley”
near an elbow of this creek.
Bodumba homestead is on the
other side of the creek, not far
from jlere. He camped that
evening in the vicinity of Gore
and rested the following day,
Sunday, June 3.
The next day, whilst travelling
over the Divide between the
waters of Macintyre Brook and
the Condamine, he saw some
natives with their gins and
piccaninnies, but they hurried
away before he could make
contact with them. He then
passed through the thicket scrub
south of Durikai, referring to it
as “dense brush of acacia, etc.,
thicket, 10ft. high.” He inferred
he must be approaching a river
as he heard the frequent screech-
ing of the white cockatoo —a
usual sign of water —and saw
“smokes” (made by aborigines)
in the distance ahead.
The following morning (June
5), from a ridge above Thane’s
Creek, he got his first glimpse
of the Downs.
Passing over the patches of
plain near Greymare and Mont-
rose, and then a mile of flat, he
arrived at the left bank of “a
small river, about 15yds. in
breadth, having a brisk current
to* the north-west, with very deep
water.” Cunningham had
reached the Condamine close to
the spot where later Patrick
Leslie, in 1840, established his
first head-station, Toolburra.
Many maps particularly
those of early date—show much
confusion about the Macintyre,
Dumaresq and their tributaries.
This was accentuated by the
duplication of names; the
Dumaresq is also called the
Severn, Sovereign and even
Sovran. On today’s maps the
upper portion of this stream is
still marked the Severn, whilst a
large tributary of the Macintyre
River bears the same name.
It is also unfortunate that, as
well as the Macintyre River, we
have a fairly large stream,
Macintyre Brook. This latter
runs into the Dumaresq upstream
from where the Dumaresq joins
the Macintyre River.


Would you like
good whisky better?
B£lXs
a v ok t \
niitviintvtniv
mimmii im H |,|U
AC.
KUIIIVfI\U7.»U>»W «.
|\»»»»*
PRODUCT 5
There’s nothing better
than a real old
Scotch Whisky. Or
is there? If whisky is
really good, made
in Scotland,
well matured—can one
ask for anything more?
We think so.
You can ask for just
one thing more—
that it should bear
the name ‘Bell's’.
We have been
distilling and blending
whisky since 1825.
We hope and believe
that Bell’s Whisky is
as near perfection
as can be.
We are one of the
few old firms of
independent distillers.
We value our
Independence. It gives
us the opportunity to
go on making, as we
have done for
some 125 years, the
finest whisky our long
experience can produce.
But you, Sir, are
the man to judge. Buy
a bottle of
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
Taste it critically and
see if you do not savour
that subtle flavour
which is Scotch Whisky
at its spirited best.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS STANLEY KNOX late of
Croydon Park New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that KATIE KNOX has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2522 of 1952 on
the grounds of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty during 3 years and upwards and
habitual drunkenness and lack of support
during 3 years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th day of May 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition free of
charge from R. G. B. TEMPLEMAN,
Solicitor, of 180 Church Street, Parra-
matta.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND JOHN BYRNE.—TAKE
NOTICE that SHEILA SAPPHIRE
BYRNE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 356 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an Ap-
pearance in the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 27th
May 1953 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from E. H. TEBBUTT
& SONS, Solicitors, 28 Martin Place.
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
Tf y'VNTF.ny. Charles (or William or Wil-
liam Charles). —Would this person, who
was bom at Gundary, near Goulburn, on
15th January, 1867, a son of Robert
Kennedy and Annie Lowe, or his next-ot-
kin or anyone having infonnation as to
their whereabouts, communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, quoting Estate of Albert Ernest
Kennedy. ,
WiU ALBERT VICTOR VIVIAN, who may
also he known as Albert 0. Vivian, son
Of Richard Henry Vivian and Elizabeth
Martin Rowe, or anyone knowing his
present whereabouts, kindly communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE regarding
the estate of the late E. M. Beacham.—•
P. J. PULLEN, Public Trustee, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Would JOHN MILLAR CAMPBELL, for-
merly of Mary-street, St. Kilda, in the
State of Victoria, but now of parts un-
known, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nichol-
son-street, Footscray.
Executry of Mrs. ISABELLE RILEY,
who resided at “Braemar,” Midton Road,
Ayr, Scotland, who died on 11th Decem-
ber, 1946. Information is required con-
cerning ALEXANDER SMITH, a nephew
of the deceased Mrs, Isabelle Riley.
Alexander Smith, who if alive will be
approximately 61 years of age, was born
in Glasgow, resided with the said Isabelle
Riley for a number of years in Fothnng-
ham Road, Ayr, joined the Army in 1916,
emigrated to the Malay States around
1930 and was last heard of in 1989 at The
Bamboos, North Quay, Brisbane, Australia.
Anyone who can give any information
concerning the present whereabouts, or
who can confirm the death of the said
Alexander Smith, should communicate
with MESSRS. THYNNE & MACARTNEY
Solicitors, National Mutual Building, 290
Queen Street, Brisbane.
mid anyone knowing the whereabouts
GEORGE GALWAY LAURENCE
CONNOR, formerly of Brunswick and
•idelberg. but now of parts unknown,
jase communicate with MESSRS. JONE’
KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nichol-
a Street, Footscray, Victoria.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Many winners of the Mel-
bourne Cup never won again.
Dalray has scored once since his
Cup success last November —a
grand performance—but, after
his distressing breakdown in the
V.R.C. Carbine Stakes at
Flemington on Saturday, he is
now for the stud.
Mention of Carbine reminds
that he won the Melbourne Cup
and subsequently landed six of
the seven events he contested —
he was an out - and - out
champion. His sole defeat in
that run of seven races was by
Marvel in ths A.J.C. All-Aged
Stakes, one mile, but later the
same afternoon he ran away
with the Cumberland Stakes, two
miles, turning the tables on
Marvel.
Fancy horses these days being
set the task of contesting a mile
and a two-miles weight-for-age
event the same afternoon! Prob-
ably there is no horse that would
be equal to such a test.
Glenloth, The Parisian, Kings-
burgh. Sister Olive, Bitalli, Back-
wood, Statesman, White Nose
and Marabou were all Mel-
bourne Cup winners that didn’t
land another race.
Students of thoroughbred
breeding were not surprised
when the Melbourne three-year-
old Arbroath ran home an easy
winner of the Australian Cup
from Welkin Sun and Royal
Radiant, because on the dam’s
side of the pedigree the colt
traces back to unbeaten Grand
Flaneur. That champion of the
early ’eighties included the Mel-
bourne Cup in his winning
sequence. Arbroath, raced by
V.R.C. chairman T. C. Mani-
fold, also won the St. Leger,
equalling the double perform-
ance of Sylvandale in 1935, and
as well landed the Carbine Stakes
(2| miles).
• • • •
Arbroath is by Angus (imp.)
from Glorious Devon, who was
bred in 1944 by Arbroath’s
owner. The dam is by Devon-
shire (imp.) from Pythia by
Psychology (imp.) from Flora
Macdonald. Adolph Basser, who
raced Delta, bought Arbroath’s
yearling brother at the Mel-
bourne sales last week for
2000gns. Angus, the sire, is by
Cameronian and won races in
England. Arbroath has now won
seven races and £10,170 in
stakes.
• • • • «i
Imported sire Empyrean, who
keeps getting his name in the
turf headlines through the con-
tinued success of his progeny,
particularly on Melbourne race-
courses, is a son of Hyperion.
Empyrean’s best son to date is
Pure Fire (V.R.C. and A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, etc.),
while others of his are Asteroid,
a brilliant Perth colt, and
Yungawee and Chez Paree, win-
ning Melbourne fillies. On the
third day of the V.R.C. carnival
at Flemington both these fillies
were successful, but on the final
day the Brisbane-owned Mid-
stream (imp.) colt Callide River
was too solid for Chez Paree in
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes,
• • • *
Great World is handicapped
at 7.4 in the Sydney Cup, or
41b. above the limit, and if he
can stay two miles he might have
some sort of chance—that is,
taking a line through his dash-
ing win in the nine-furlongs
Canterbury Cup on Saturday,
when he came from a long way
back and was still seventh for
home. He then dashed up on
the outside and won easily. His
form improved on anything he’d
shown for ages. In fact he
hadn’t won a race for about 17
months, so it was no surprise
he started at 33 to 1. The aged
Beau Son gelding is trained at
Randwick by P. J. Murray, who
also won the succeeding event
with Karendi, 9 to 1 after 12’s
liad been bet.
Backed in from 11-to-2 to
4-to-l favoritism, New Zealander
Regoli in winning the Canter-
bury Flying drew attention to
his Doncaster prospects. Regoli
carried 8.2, but advances to 8.5
in the big race. A winner in
New Zealand, he hadn’t scored
since December, 1951, so it was
hard luck for Prelate connections
that he should down the last
Doncaster winner in a close
finish. Prelate indicated he is fast
returning to his best form. He
carried Bst. and comes down a
pound in the more important
mile.
Owners of “emergency”
starters are lucky to get a run at
any time, but at Canterbury two
of them landed races. One of the
emergencies. Rapid River,
winner of nine events, created a
favorable impression in winning
the First Ashbury Graduation
Stakes at his initial eity appear-
ance. He started favorite at
7 to 4, and seems bound to win
in much stronger company.
Karendi, winner of the second
division of that sprint, led all
the way. He also had been an
emergency acceptor.
Sydney jockey Arthur Ward,
who rode Karendi (9 to 1),
won on Hiavala (9 to 2) in the
next race. Hiavala is a four-
year-old grey mare by High
Caste from Chavala, and is
trained at Randwick by Reg
Harris for Mr. and Mrs. T. M.
Rose. Jim Bendrodt, studmaster
and owner of Princes Farm,
Castlereagh (N.S.W.), has a
chestnut brother to Hiavala in
his list of yearlings to be offered
at the Randwick sales.
Studmaster Alec Higgins, of
Piercefield, Muswellbrook
(N.S.W.), was pleased with
Karendi’s Canterbury win, as he
is the breeder of the colt’s year-
ling half-brother, to be auctioned
on the final day of the Rand-
wick Autumn sales. Karendi,
raced by Mrs. A. F. Smith and
executors of the late A. F.
Smith’s estate, is a Wayside Inn
(imp.) colt from. Belle Fille. His
half-brother is by Genetout
(imp.). Their dam is a half-
sister to Lohengrin, winner of
several Melbourne events, and is
by Beau Pere (imp.) from Merry
Smile by Chatham. Merry
Smile was a smart sprinter on
Sydney courses, and won several
events, including the Gimcrack
Stakes.
There’s probably no fitter
man for his age on Sydney race
tracks than veteran jockey Roy
James. Roy has won hundreds
of races, mostly in Newcastle,
but he is the first jockey at Rose-
bery each morning and generally
the last to leave. He arrives with
the break of day and will assist
any trainer to get horses worked.
This fitness, and that of his
mount. Lucky Stride, enabled
him to win the Canterbury Two-
year-old Promotion Stakes. He
was given a rousing reception
on returning to weigh-in. Lucky
Stride is raced by a Gundagai
sportsman, T. H. Boyton, who
won his first city race and with
the first horse he has raced in
the metropolis.
Tasmanian Racing Club’s 33rd
Doncaster meeting will be held
at the Elwick course this coming
Saturday, >yhen the main events
will be the Doncaster Handicap
and Tasmanian Breeders’ Plate,
seven furlongs. The latter is an
unusual handicap race, as it is
for two-, three- and four-year-
olds foaled in Tasmania or on
the mainland so long as they
were bred by a person who is
established to the satisfaction
of the T.R.C. as a bona
fide resident of Tasmania. The
club pays an owner’s subsidy of
£2 for each non-placegetter
(flat events), while attendants
and horses (non-winners) are
carried both ways free over the
Government railways.
Upwards of 700 yearlings will
be offered at the annual Rand-
wick sales at Easter by Inglis
and Son, with' upwards of 130
sires represented, more than 20
of them parading their first
progeny. Of the new sires eight
are local bred, including The
Groom, Columnist, Lysander,
Aqua Regis and Proctor. New-
comers among the English sires
whose oldest Australian progeny
are now yearlings include
Abbot’s Fell, Baturo, Facsimile,
Golden Hackle, Pegu, Tormie,
Translantic, Trinity, Tsaoko and
Turkaris. Tuesday, April 7, is
first sale-day.
• • • •
Melbourne’s yearling sales
aggregated 145,840gn5., an
average of 542gn5., which com-
pared more than favorably with
the 1952 average, 467gns.
An interesting visitor to the
Canterbury Park meeting on
Saturday last was Caulfield
starter Frank Dempsey, former
jockey, and one of the best seen
in this country. Dempsey was
over to view the working of the
electric starting-gates, which
have proved a great success at
Sydney meetings. The V.A.T.C,
intends to adopt the scheme, and
probably the V.R.C. will fall into
line.
Carioca is now on his own at
top of the betting-table on the
Sydney Gup, and he might start
one of the shortest-priced Cup
horses on record. Doubles bet-
ting has slumped slightly, as
there was no performance at
Canterbury to cause any altera-
tion to the prices. Tarien heads
the Doncaster Handicap list, fol-
lowed by High Law on the
second line and Oversight on the
third fine. Others in the market
include Raconteur, Bob Cherry,
Regoli and (another New Zea-
lander) Red Jester.
* * ♦
The McWilliam’s Wines £5OOO
golf tourney at the Australian
Club’s course, Kensington (Syd-
ney), opens tomorrow (Thurs-
day) with a good line-up of
international and local talent.
No Americans are present, but
Argentina, Italy, Britain, New
Zealand and the Philippines have
pro. champs, and with Von
Nida, Peter Thomson, Nagle and
a big bunch of native pros the
crowd should get its money’s
worth. So should the Society for
Crippled Children, which gets
the profits.
* * *
South Africa walked away
with the first Test v. N.Z.
Against 8 for 524, N.Z.’s two
innings both totalled 172 —
S’Africa by an innings and 180
runs. Watkins, Murray’and Tay-
field each nabbed five wickets,
and Fuller four,
Bradman says he shares “in
the great regret that Noblet’s
bowling did not earn for him a
cricketer’s highest ambition —a
place in the team for England.”
Noblet had done “a magnificent
job” for S.A., he said.
Noblet’s omission was un-
popular in S.A. cricket circles;
it recalls the 1934 omission of
S.A.’s forceful left-hand opening-
bat Nitschke, which caused a bit
of a rumpus in that State. Two
left-hand batsmen were taken in
1934 —the Victorians Darling
and Bromley. In the preceding
Shield season both had had
higher aggregates and better
averages than Nitschke (Darling
particularly). Bromley, inci-
dentally, was not altogether a
success in England. Nitschke,
like Noblet, was unlucky to miss
out; but the selectors can’t put
everyone in.
The English Test-selection
committee is Brown (chairman),
Wyatt, Ames and Yardley; all
former Test players, and all, ex-
cept Ames, captains of England.
And nearly all the reserved seats
for the five Tests in England have
already been sold! “I have never
known demand to be so heavy,”
said one secretary. The Coro-
nation, nine days before the first
Test, is suggested as partly the
cause.
“Keima”; Tallon was another
“shock omission” from the 1938
team (B. 11/3/’53). With Old-
field passed over, many thought
Tallon (then 22), as the younger,
should have been preferred to
Walker, who was 30, as Barnett’s
offsider. Apart from his ’keep-
ing, Tallon was also much the
better bat of the two. Inci-
dentally, Vic. ’keeper lan Mc-
Donald, elder brother of Colin,
to whom Tallon was preferred
this year, will not play any more
first-class cricket. A medico, he
is still having a trip to England
—for post-graduate studies.
“Driftsand”: South Australia
last won the Sheffield Shield in
1938-39, with Bradman as
skipper, not in 1935-36 as stated
B. 4/3/’53. In that season Brad-
man equalled the 1901 record of
C. B. Fry by scoring six cen-
turies in succession. S.A.’s cap-
tain, Phil Ridings, is the only
present player who was also a
member of the 1938-39 team.
* * *
Having more or less success-
fully chased Ken Wenman
(8-13|) over the 12-rounds can-
vas course at Leichhardt, Vic-
torian Ron Varcoe (8-11) was
declared winner on points, but
whether for fighting or footrun-
ning wasn’t announced. Any-
way, when they’re through with
stoush there should be a future
for them both in greyhound-
training industry, maybe as tin-
hares.


gd
■asm
t-Mm
m
*
k
WITH PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTIME
FOR TROT NEWLY BARBERED LOOK
m
m
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down" look. Palmolive
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For That Successful
Well-groomed Look
PBa/iao
Rose Lindsay's Memoirs
In Paris with Hugh D. McIntosh
NORMAN had always
talked of sending or tak-
ing the “Casanova”
drawings to London for
publication. It was something
that was going to be done some
day; nothing was definite until
Bill Dyson came over from Mel-
bourne in 1910 to discuss his
future with Norman.
He wanted to marry Ruby
Lindsay and go to London, as
he could see no market for his
work in Australia, He thought
that it would be a good idea if
Norman went at the same time,
and they talked it over and
decided to leave within three
months. It was understood that
I was to stay behind, and if
things went all right for Norman
I could follow later.
The question of money had to
be considered, and Norman
decided to hold two exhibitions,
one in Sydney and the other in
Melbourne and from there he
would take the ship for London.
He did a lot of small pen-
drawings to add to the accumu-
“The Duet” —a Roman revel from the
Fanfrolico Press “Petronius.”
lated works, also he dashed off
a fair number of drawings of
bears, always good sellers in
those days.
John Dailey conceived the
bright idea of Norman doing
some portraits of Sydney
society ladies. “They are sure
to buy them,” he said, and
escorted Norman to the homes
of the victims.
The first to be done was Baby
Dailey, sister-in-law of John.
She wore a large feathered hat,
a low-necked brown velvet
frock. Mrs, T. H. Kelly wore
a riding-kit and held a crop.
She looked wide-eyed, as if to
imply some astonishment at
what was done to her, but I have
never heard of her taking any
revenge.
Mrs. Sydney Jamieson in soft
lace was quite the best. Another
posed in luscious black furs.
“Hats do go out of fashion,”
she said. Ten or a dozen were
done in all, John being social
M.C.
The exhibition was held at
Angus and Robertson’s in an
upstairs room. The bear draw-
ings sold out the first day. There
was such a demand for more
that Norman sat in a little back-
room each day drawing them
, while an assistant was kept busy
putting them on the walls. Most
of the work sold except the
portraits of the society ladies.
Norman had quite a successful
exhibition in Melbourne. He
wrote to tell me that the first-
day sales reached £3OO, that
Governor Carmichael and
Madam Melba came and
bought quite a few things, and
Madam sent him a box of soap
and a bottle of scent. “A most
astounding thing to give for a
present,” he said.
The next letters were from
Colombo, when he wrote “I
made a bloomer by coming to
sea without enough ready cash.
I have only three pounds in gold
and fifty in Cook’s notes. I got
a cheque from Ted Dyson, who
is banking my show-money, but
I forgot to cash it and had to
post it back.”
It apparently didn’t enter his
head to cash the Cook cheques,
for I got another letter from
Naples saying that he was forced
to borrow from Bill till he
reached London, where a draft
had been sent.
Cook’s cheques were still in
his pocket eight months later.
There was much excitement on
the Ophir as it steamed out some
months later, with myself aboard
for London, for Melba was a
passenger, and I saw her for the
first time, promenading in a
small checked black-and-white
suit, escorted by her brother
Ernest.
Both were built on stocky
lines; she walked alertly and
carried her head proudly, with
flashing brown eyes. Whenever
she strolled on’ the deck,
passengers stood back to give
her right of way; or, if she was
seated in her special cane-chair
on the deck, there was a reverent
silence observed in her territory.
She had her French maid and
chauffeur aboard and forty-odd
trunks, for Madam was going
for a lengthy stay in Paris. Also
travelling to Paris was Evelyn
Scotney, somewhat under
Madam’s guidance. She was
my cabin-mate; a golden,
statuesque beauty, with sheer
nightgowns that put my voile to
shame.
Ernest was a genial soul;
bursting in on our group one
afternoon he said “For Heaven s
sake, come and make a noise
outside Nellie’s cabin. She has
ordered me to skip some of my
fat off. And he meant it. Cart-
ing off a couple of the men, he
gave them the rope and settled
back in Madam’s chair, nodding
at them to keep it up. “Just
what they needed,” he said.
The usual concert was
organised after leaving Fre-
mantle. Evelyn was billed to
sing, also Dolly Harmer, a
Cockney who had been out on
the Tivoli circuit. “God, I’ve
got stage-fright. Melba’s com-
ing to the concert. Can you see
me singing ‘Has Anybody Here
Seen Kelly’ in front of her?”
But Dolly beefed it out that
night and Madam was the first
to clap. She was seated with
the Captain, he in white and she
in apricot satin, trained and
Further extracts from the unpublished
memoirs of Mrs. Norman Lindsay
beaded in gold, a frock that Bert
Lindsay [Norman’s brother] had
designed for her.
0 m 0 •
Norman met the boat at
Tilbury and, as the ship berthed,
I saw him leaning against some
boxes, looking up to where I
was on the top deck.
We went to Belsize Park,
where Norman had a studio
cottage which was entered by a
lane to a grassed square, and
around it artists’ cottages, red-
tiled, with a large window the
length of the front-room. It was
a cold, grey day and even the
big coal fire did not take the
chill out of that room. All the
time we lived there I never felt
warm.
In the studio cottage opposite
I used to see the naval artist
Wilkinson painting large sea-
pieces. Norman worked every
day on the “Petronius” drawings,
which he took out to Ralph
Strauss, who was working at
home on the book, where he had
his own press in the cellar. I
remember Strauss mostly for his
shining dark eyes, neat navy suit
on his stocky little figure.
No headway had been made
with the publishing of
“Casanova.” The London pub-
lishers were anxious to handle
the drawings if Norman could
find a way of bringing them out.
Paris was suggested as the most
likely place to find a publisher.
Before I arrived Norman took a
trip over there with William
Dailey to do all the talking in
French, but as nothing came of
it he brought the illustrations
back and got on with the
“Petronius.”
Hugh D. Mclntosh took
Norman to a couple of fights.
He became interested in the
“Casanova” and reckoned there
was money in it. He told
Norman to go into costs and he
would back it. The cost of pro-
ducing it came out at £2OOO.
A few reproductions were
made fpr tests, and Mac became
so interested that he was talking
costs, methods of production,
ways of distributing, as if he
had been in the publishing busi-
ness all his life. He sent to
Paris for quotes, and took charge
of the box of drawings, which
he showed to all callers at his
office, including the prize-
fighters, who came to do a bit
of business in their own line and
must have thought that Mac had
gone nuts.
Norman went to stay with
Ralph Strauss to finish the
“Petronius,” and 1 went down
to All Cannings to stay with a
relation of my mother’s —a
cousin, I think. She was fat,
wrinkled and looking like an
old woman in a Rembrandt
picture in her full black dress
and white bonnet.
She lived in an old |hatched
cottage with brick floors and
leadlight windows with boxes of
red geraniums, and was waited
on from morn till night by her
daughter, Martha, aged thirty-
five. Martha was thin and
wrinkled with toil. She had a
future husband —a pleasant, fair,
fat farmer who came two nights
a week to supper of biscuits and
cheese and beer, and took her
to church on Sunday nights,
returning as soon as service was
over.
I asked her why.
“We’d be talked about if we
didn’t come straight home.”
They had been engaged for
fifteen years and would not
marry till mother died. They
never went out for walks at
night.
• • • •
Mclntosh decided upon a trip
to Paris to discuss once again
the “Casanova” with publishers,
as he said he had the money to
back it. We were told at
11 o’clock to be ready to catch
the two-o’clock train. At the
station Bill Dailey was with Mac
and a small dark girl whom I
did not know. Bill’s job was to
travel as interpreter for discus-
sions with publishers.
Mac said that he had round-
tickets to Paris, Berlin and back,
and that we were to stay a couple
of weeks.
There was much interviewing
of publishers, and a stern watch
had to be kept on William so
that he wouldn’t escape his
duties as interpreter.
From one interview Mac
came back stunned, but William
was in a high state of glee.
“Priceless,” he kept saying.
“The bloody Froggies are all
the same,” Mac said.
Norman told me that they had
gone to the appointment with
Monsieur the publisher at
11 o’clock, and he had received
them in his silk dressing-gown
and nightcap. While the talk
was going on Mac kept chipping
in, “What’s he saying. Bill?”
“Oh, we were just discussing
the opera.”
“Get on with the book. Ask
him how much to publish the
bloody thing,”
Monsieur was very gracious,
but evasive, about a statement
of terms.
Mac said “Look at his table.
That’s enough to show you that
he’s no businessman. We’re only
wasting our time here,”
After much interpreting by
William, the Frenchman rose to
say goodbye.
“I wish you the best of luck,
Mr. Mclntosh,” he said in
perfect English.
We went to a show or two
and did the usual cafes at night.
Mac decided to give us a night
of sights, engaging a guide to
show us the night-life of Paris.
After visiting a couple of places
Mac said to Bill “Ask the
blighter if he thinks we have our
feeding-bottles with us.” He
picked so much at the poor guide
for daring to charge for his
services that the man threw up
his hands and rushed down the
street shouting “I do it for the
Gloire.”
Roars of laughter from Mac
stilled him and he said “Come,
follow.”
“And damn well talk English
for the rest of the night,” Mac
said.
We followed him to a palatial
house where he had a conference
at the door and we were ushered
in. Madame received us in
sweeping black silk,
“Ah, this looks better,” Mac
said.
She led us up a wide stairway
with dim blue lights and palms
to a large room. “Be seated,”
she said, waving us to chairs.
The guide had disappeared.
Madame came back with a flock
of girls in clothes to suggest
various nationalities.
“Hello, Cleopatra,” Mac said
to one swathed in red georgette.
“Where’s your snake?”
Bill was soon explaining that
we were travellers from Aus-
tralia and that Norman was an
artist. One dark good-looking
girl wrapped only in a Spanish
shawl and a red rose in her hair
was very interested in the artist.
“And this is Hugh D.
((Continued on page 34)


you wan I a/,
boiler plan! ?
BABCOCK
can lt
■Whether your requirement is 1000 Ib./hr. of process
steam at 100 Ib./sq. in., saturated ... or steam for
100,000 kw. of power at 1500 Ib./sq. in., and 1050 “F.,
from one boiler unit, BABCOCK can supply it; and
not only the boiler but also all the essential auxiliary
services—coal handling plant, ash disposal equip-
ment, pipework ... in fact, a complete steam raising
plant, designed and manufactured entirely within
the BABCOCK organisation, backed by 75 years of
experience in steam engineering and by a world-wide
service.
Manufacturers of: Water-tube Boilers; Super-
heaters; Economisers; Air Heaters; Water-wall
Furnaces; Pulverised Fuel Plants; Travelling Grate
Stokers; Spreader Stokers; Soot Blowers for Manual
or Automatic Operation; Pipework; Attemperators;
Coal and Ash Handling Plant; “Hydrojet” Ashing
System; “Hydrovac” Dust Handling System; Cranes,
Transporters, Conveyors, Wagon Tipplers.
Equipment for: Oil and Gas Burning, Waste Heat
Utilisation, Bagasse, Black Liquor and other fuels.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. FAR EAST MOVES
Cabled reports of the joint
U.S.-British move to have
“strategic materials” blocked out
of Communist China indicate
how fast things have been mov-
ing America’s way since
Eisenhower took control and
started to implement an active
Far East policy.
His first move—to shift the
“neutralising” U.S. Seventh
Fleet from Formosa Strait —
led to a furious uproar in
Britain, in Parliament as well as
in the Press.
And not there alone. As a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent reported, it
caused the “most widespread
alarm both in Western
Europe and the Far East, where
our [America’s] allies and poten-
tial allies are just as grossly
ignorant of the real situation as
the Asia-first Republicans are.”
As a British voice in that
“alarm,” Bevan came out in-
stantly with his widely-reported
declamation that Britain was
“not prepared to sacrifice one
British life in order to tfy and
put Chiang Kai-shek back in
China,” which typical Bevanist
anti - Americanism London
“Economist” dubbed “a piece of
irresponsible scaremongering,”
since no responsible person
had suggested that a Chinese
Nationalist restoration was either
possible or desirable, still less
that British troops should be
used for the purpose.
More restrained than Sevan,
London “Times” nevertheless
expressed quite clearly the same
British fear: “The more power
of intervention that is given to
the [Chinese] Nationalist Gov-
ernment, and the more it is
brought into the strategic picture,
the more remote does the last
chance of any truce [in Korea]
become.”
The same fear had further
airing in the House of Commons,
where, however, Mr. Eden stated
the official British view of the
American action:
“It seemed to the American
people that their fleet had been
ensuring Communists that they
would be free from anxiety
while carrying on actual aggres-
sion in Korea and daily inflict-
ing loss of life on American
troops and ours. A million
and a quarter Americans have
been engaged in the Korean
conflict at one time or another,
with 128,000 casualties, and that
must have a great effect on many
American homes. In those cir-
cumstances the restraint shown
by the Americans has been quite
remarkable.”
Unfair to Uncle Sam
London “Times” agrees that
it is not enough for Govern-
ments to seek to dissuade the
United States from increasing
Chiang Kai-shek’s activities:
“They will have to be ready at
the same time to give more help
themselves on the Korean field.”
The joint agreement on bar-
ring “strategic materials” means
that other countries will now be
asked by both Britain and
America to join in what amounts
to the first move in a blockade
action.
“Though the Korean war is
supposed to be a United Nations
effort,” London “Financial
Times” has commented,
“it is the Americans who
have had to make infinitely the
heaviest contribution to it, both
in men and in money. And, all
the time, they have had to put
up with carping lectures on how
they should run the war from
their non-contributing allies.
“It is monstrously unfair that
Uncle Sam should bear such a
huge financial share in the
Korean war as well as the
burden of many lost young
American lives.”
Other moves to end that
“unfairness” . will follow the
blockade step.
Appeasement Over
London “Daily Telegraph”
has pointed out that, anyway,
attempts to appease Communist
China had all failed:
“As for the idea that kid-
glove handling of the Chinese
Communists will make them any
readier to agree to a Korean
peace, that was finally exploded
by their rejection of the Indian
proposals [on the Korean
p.-0.-w. deadlock], which treated
them in just this way. They
will accept peace only when
they are brought to believe that
it is more advantageous to them
than continuing the war on all
its fronts.”
On that aspect the “Economist”
comments that “President Eisen-
hower now believes the Chinese
will be brought to terms only if
they are weakened and worried
by the kind of cold-war methods
used by the Russians and them-
selves.”
Hong Kong Protection
Randolph Churchill, in a
London “Times” letter, has
directed British consideration to
yet another aspect:
“At a time when anti-Ameri-
can and anti-United Nations
agitators in this country are
seeking to suggest that the
United States are pursuing a
selfish policy in the Far East, it
is as well that it should be re-
membered that, quite apart from
the leading role the United
States are playing in organising
collective resistance to aggres-
sion, they have also, by pre-
venting a Communist assault
on Formosa, considerably dimi-
nished the likelihood of Hong
Kong being attacked. Formosa
is the back door to Hong Kong,
and if it were in Communist
hands Hong Kong would be in-
defensible.”
The Americans, of course,
have not done anything to lessen
that protection. They have “de-
neutralised” Formosa, not weak-
ened it.
“Pressure Is On”
The fiercely-titled Chinese-
owned Hong Kong publication
“Tiger Standard” (anti-Com-
munist) has expressed the main
purpose of U.S. Far East move
as they see it at that close range :
“The Far East today is domi-
nated by the element —fear —
which is caused by the aggres-
siveness of Communist China,
and until the Communist
leaders are removed there will
always be fear. It is not oppor-
tune at the moment to attempt
the overthrow of these Chinese
Red leaders, but the process of
fear can be reversed. They must
be made to worry about what
might happen to them.”
As “New York Times”
military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin reports from Wash-
ington ;
“The pressure is on, and unless
the Chinese Communists make
peace they will in time feel it.”
The Dulles Big Stick
Toronto “Globe and Mail”
doubts the wisdom of the U.S.
telling Western Europe to get on
—New York “Herald Tribune"
AND THE ANIMALS CAME IN ONE BY ONE
with unification or aid will be
curtailed;
“The inescapable fact is that
so-called North American ‘aid
to Europe’ will have to be
increased, instead of diminished,
if the unity movement breaks
down.
“That being so, the political
wisdom of the Dulles procedure
seems doubtful. The European
countries concerned have a long
independent history. The rate of
their progress toward federa-
tion since 1947 has been, by
any time-scale except that of the
twentieth century, spectacular;
and they face genuine difficulties
in finishing the job.
“It is questionable if the big
stick is the right diplomatic
device to use in these circum-
stances, especially when the big
stick is made of cotton-wool.”
Uncle Sam, Creditor
The very urgent issue the new
team at the U.S. Treasury have
to decide (says a New York
“Herald Tribune” Washington
report) is whether the United
States should now try to adapt
its national policies to its world
position as the greatest —indeed
almost the only—creditor
nation;
“A creditor nation must do
two things. It must import its
customers’ goods, which means
lower tariffs. And it must invest
its surpluses abroad, to ensure its
own sources of raw materials.
“Foreign aid has been the poor
and uneconomical substitute for
taking these great steps, which
will be so bitterly controversial
in the short run and so immensely
profitable in the long run.
“There can be little doubt that
this will be the real test of the
Eisenhower Administration.
There can be little doubt, either,
that Eisenhower is a man with
the courage and the wisdom to
search for fundamental solutions
if the little men of politics do
not hamstring him.”
Titoland Changes
“Revisiting Yugoslavia after
an interval of two years, I was
forcibly struck by the change
which had come over the
country and its people. A new
spirit is abroad.”
Making this report in one of
a series of London “Daily Tele-
graph” articles, House of Com-
mons member Fitzroy Maclean
outlines main features of the
change.
First, though the Stalinist
framework is still there, “it has
fallen into disrepute and dis-
repair, and looms unheeded in
the background.”
In place of the discarded doc-
trines a new Constitution is
being hammered out, the eco-
nomic life of the country is
being revolutionised. Titoland
is in a state of flux.
The change, though, is not to
democracy. “Even before the
war, King Alexander was finally
obliged to suspend Parliament
on account of the shooting
which took place across the floor
of the House, and nothing that
has happened since can be said
to have smoothed the way for
democratic institutions.
“What is being built will, we
are told, be the first truly Marxist
State in history, and will demon-
strate once and for all the utter
depravity of Stalinism,
“Today the remaining points
of resemblance with the Soviet
Union are beinghurriedly
cleared away. Indeed, the dis-
covery that the Russians are
taking any given line about any-
thing is sufficient reason to take
the opposite line.
“Economically, the new em-
phasis is on decentralisation,
enterprise, initiative and die
profit-motive. The unscrambling
process is in full swing. What
is more, the new methods are
producing results.
“How some of these ideas—
notably the principle of profit-
ability—can be reconciled with
orthodox Marxism is for the
expert ideologist to say. For-
tunately, Karl Marx, like other
prophets, wrote so copiously and
as often as not so cryptically
that a text can be found to
justify almost any interpretation
of his teaching. How and where
it will all end, no one can tell.
“At least the new trend takes
into account the existence of
human nature and bears a far
closer relationship to reality than
anything that has gone before.
“A corresponding realism has
for some time marked external
policy. The past four years have
witnessed a cautious progression
from the openly hostile attitude
of the immediate post-war years
to the position of a near-Ally of
the West; they have seen a
marked improvement in Yugo-
slavia’s relations, not only with
Great Britain and the United
States, but with her neighbors,
Greece and Turkey, both, like
her, exposed to the direct threat
of Soviet aggression.”
There is one snag— relations
with Italy remain thoroughly
bad. “The root of the trouble is
[Trieste. In practice, only one


DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
m
m
m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOB!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it ... 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” . . . 76% said “Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
fg
BANKERS
pssyl2l
The shaving c ream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAW/ERS
solution seems possible; an
agreement based on the present
status quo, under which Italy
would receive Zone A and Yugo-
slavia would keep Zone B. That
either side could be induced to
abandon what in fact they
already hold is inconceivable.
Meanwhile, the dispute drags on,
to the constant irritation of all
concerned and to the satisfaction
of no one save the Russians.”
J. Bull and Neguib
There were a few dissenting
voices, but generally speaking
the British Press was as joyful
over the agreement with Egypt
on the Sudan as if the change it
effects and the more important
close-looming changes it pres-
ages should be thought of as
great British successes, or even
famous victories.
Of the dissenters, London
“Daily Express,” diehard
Imperialist, was naturally the
most vociferous.
“Once again,” it heatedly said,
“Britain has abdicated her
responsibilities. Once again
Britain has scuttled from a
sacred trust without lifting even
an eyebrow in her own defence.
“In this sad and melancholy
moment the saddest thing of all
is that it will be the Sudanese
themselves who will suffer most.
For 50 years they have been pro-
tected by Britain from the
corrupt men of Cairo. For 50
years they have escaped the
poverty and oppression which
has been the fate of Egypt’s
miserable fellahin. Now they
are handed over to Neguib on a
plate.”
“Time and Tide,” as another
dissenter, found it “impossible
to join the extraordinary chorus
of complacency and congratula-
tion” ; the Sudan Agreement was
“an outstanding example” of a
“process of abandonment of
pledged responsibility and
betrayal of loyal friends”:
“The plain fact, which none of
the apologists will face, is that
appeasement always creates far
greater difficulties and dangers
than it averts. Nothing has been
made easier, no major Middle
Eastern problem has been
solved, the confidence and the
security and the stability that
are so badly needed there have
not been brought an inch nearer
by the Sudan Agreement. As the
hazy clouds of cant and self-
congratulation drift away, as
General Neguib resorts to the
familiar —and successful —tactics
of squeeze and blackmail, per-
haps in Britain we shall come to
realise belatedly what an empty
achievement this Agreement has
been, and we shall discover once
more that in abandoning trust
and loyalty and responsibility we
have bought nothing but sorrow,
ashes, disillusion and dishonor.”
London “Economist” came in
somewhere between the dirge
and the joybells ; reluctantly it
accepted the inevitable:
“There can be no doubt that
the pride in this country in the
British achievement in the
Sudan, which has been nation-
building at its best, is as
genuine as it is widespread.
There can be equally little doubt
that British agreement to with-
draw so quickly, at so early a
stage in the Sudan’s develop-
ment, represents a further ebbing
of the tide of British influence in
the Middle East. For British
public opinion, it must therefore
be a sad occasion.”
Typical of the much more
numerous joybell side, “York-
shire Post” described the Agree-
ment as “a triumph for con-
structive statesmanship on the
part both of the Egyptian Gov-
ernment and the British.”
“Few people,” it commented,
“fully realise the major achieve-
ment. It is that the Egyptians
have abandoned their claim to
suzerainty over the Sudan. This
in itself is a remarkable step
forward from a time less than a
year ago, when Farouk was
claiming the right to be crowned
King of Sudan as well as of
Egypt. Mr. Eden’s diplomatic
success leaves the way clear for
the British to accomplish what
has long been our political aim,
namely, to put the Sudan on the
path to independence and self-
government.”
“Manchester Guardian,” de-
claring that “it was right for the
British Government to accept
the Agreement,” joined Mr.
Eden in describing it as “a rea-
sonable settlement of this ques-
tion which has for long be-
devilled our relations with
Egypt and contributed so much
uncertainty to the future of the
Sudan itself.”
London “Sunday Times”
characterised the settlement as
“one of the most significant
events since the end of the last
world war,” and the “Observer,”
calling it “a work of good sense
and statesmanship, upon which
both the British and Egyptian
Governments are to be con-
gratulated,” added;
“Both sides have achieved
their essential points. Britain
has upheld her pledge to the
Sudanese that they should be
allowed freely to determine their
own future status. Egypt has
secured arrangements which allay
her fears that this Sudanese
choice might be made under
British influence.”
London “Daily Mail,” claim-
ing that Britain’s terms, safe-
guarding the Sudanese and ful-
filling all oft-repeated promises
to them, had been accepted,
further commented:
“It is hard to see what more
we could have done. Yet it is
being called a scuttle on the
Persian and Indian pattern. To
say that it resembles Abadan is
self-evident nonsense. It is also
very different from India, where
careful steps towards self-gov-
ernment ended in abrupt sur-
render.
“The Sudan is not even a
British colony. It is true that
for 50 years it has been adminis-
tered by devoted British civil
servants. But it is jointly gov-
erned by Britain and Egypt—
and British ideas predominate
in this new Agreement.
“The Sudan is to have an
elected Parliament to guide the
destinies of the country in the
next three vital years. Then there
is the British Governor-General.
During the three-year period he
is to be ‘the supreme constitu-
tional authority,’ assisted by a
commission which is to include
two Sudanese and a Pakistani.
“It is being said, too, that
the new Agreement is a ‘be-
trayal’ which will further lower
British influence throughout the
Middle East. Exactly the con-
trary is true. Our prestige will
soar because we have kept our
promises. The ‘word of an
Englishman’ still means much in
the Arab world.”
Even the ranks of Tuscany
came in ringing joybells, the
Socialist Left-wing “Tribune”
declaring that “Mr. Anthony
Eden deserves to be congratu-
lated on his agreement about the
Sudan,” and the Labor “Daily
Herald” commenting:
“Britain’s settlement with
Egypt over the Sudan prepares
the way for the time when the
Sudanese will direct their own
affairs. That is the vital con-
sideration. It is a cause for
rejoicing. Successive British
Governments have given a
pledge to work for the right of
the Sudanese to govern them-
selves, and Mr. Eden has
adhered to this policy.”
The “Sunday Times” added to
these politically-assorted plau-
dits a more general laudation of
Britannia’s record;
“Our record is far from being
one of ‘centuries of insolence
and injustice,’ to quote Earl
Russell; ‘generations of good
government, progress and peace’
would be an apter epitaph.
“The Sudan itself is a par-
ticularly fine demonstration of
the falsity of the notion that im-
perialism is automatically evil.
Probably no other dependent
territory has gained so much
benefit from imperial trustee-
ship. In the space of a few
decades the Sudan Government,
staffed mainly by British ad-
ministrators, has brought im-
mense economic and social
improvements. The dedicated
band of civil servants have given
to the backward provinces law
and order and decent govern-
ment in place of tribal warfare,
slave-raiding and other evils of
earlier eras. It is a record not
for contrition but for pride.”
American reaction to the
settlement, all of it enthusiasti-
cally favorable, is fully repre-
sented by the “New York
Times” finding: “The best news
that has come out of the Middle
East in many a long month.”
Dragnet Digest
Ike’s Russian Decoration. —
“At the end of the war,” states a
London report in New York
—London “Daily Express”
“OF COURSE YOU’RE FREE—FREE TO STAY WHERE
YOU ARE OR JUMP IN BACKWARDS!"
“Herald Tribune,” “Stalin
decorated Eisenhower with the
high Order of Victory. Later,
out of curiosity, Eisenhower took
it to a Washington jeweller and
discovered that the diamonds
which made his decoration glitter
were pieces of glass.”
Flying Something. —They’ve
been seeing them a long time,
suggests a London “Times”
letter-writer: “While going
through some early manuscripts
pertaining to Byland Abbey, in
Yorkshire, I came across a docu-
ment dated circa 1290 which
mentions a round flat silver
object like a discus which flew
over the monastery exciting
'maximum terrorem’ among the
brethren.”
Caviare. —The Persians, notes
“New York Times,” “are nothing
if not consistent. Having
nationalised the oil industry, they
now seem determined to
nationalise the caviare industry.”
So, of course, it’s even possible
that caviare will be off the menu
again at Alice Springs.
Johnno Volunteers. —Fitzroy
Maclean, M.P., in London
“Daily Telegraph”: “The
Turkish Government’s decision
to send a contingent to Korea,
taken when I was in Turkey two
years ago, was from the first
immensely popular. When 1800
replacements for Korea were
sought in 1951 there were 30,000
volunteers. The troops selected
were kept behind barbed-wire.
A foreign observer asked why;
surely they were all volunteers?
‘Certainly,’ replied the Turkish
commander, ‘the barbed-wire is
to keep out the stowaways! ’ ”
Fed-up Americans. —On what
has. to be kept in mind in regard
to U.S. Far East policy-moves,
London “Economist” com-
ments : “The fact has to be faced
that the American people are be-
wildered and exasperated by the
failure to achieve decisive results
after two-and-a-half years of
fighting. They resent particu-
larly the fact that the United
Nations forces have had to
conduct their campaign within
limits which suit the Chinese
better than themselves; and if
they have given any clear man-
date for foreign policy to the
new Administration it is to bring
the war to an end or to reduce
the American casualties at the
front by using ‘Asians to fight
Asians.’ ”
Indian Power-politics,—Lon-
don “World Review” summing-
up: “Having got rid of British
imperialism, the Indians are de-
veloping a brand of their own.
In spite of all the talk so fashion-
able in Delhi about the
Philosophy of Peace and Love,
events in Hyderabad and Kash-
mir and the ‘cold war’ with
Pakistan have shown that the
Indian Government is quite pre-
pared to adopt the techniques of
power-politics to further its own
interests.”
Canada’s U.S. Trade. —Noting
that, “while politically Canada is
still a member of the [British]
Commonwealth, she is no longer
so economically,” an Ottawa
correspondent of “New York
Times” points out: “Whereas
before World War II Britain was
the biggest market for Canadian
produce,’the United States now
buys four times as much from
Canada as Britain. In addition,
such former staple exports as
canned salmon, bacon, cheese
and apples are now excluded
from the British market.”
Dependence on U .S. All
signs, comments a “New York
Times” correspondent, indicate
that the post-war pattern of
trans-Atlantic relationships is
wearing thin. Current reports
confirm and emphasise that
America’s allies are restive under
their obligations to the U.S.:
“European Governments are
awfully tired of feeling depen-
dent on the United States, of
having to justify to their people
various actions that this aid
entails and of going through the
agony of Congressional hearings
in which their deeds and mis-
deeds are aired by all and sundry
who care to testify.”
Poor Middle East. After
examining the Middle East
countries, “New York Times’s”
chief foreign correspondent,
C. L. Sulzberger, reports that
economically both Israel and its
Moslem neighbors are in poor
shape. The Arab blockade has
damaged the Israeli economy,
which depends heavily on U.S.
aid. Similarly, Jordan is suffer-
ing from inability to utilise
Haifa, a port in Israel that it
normally would use. Egypt,
gravely hurt by the weakness of
world cotton prices, is in
extreme straits.
Ike Policy —A rather lone
voice in British comment, Ver-
non Bartlett, in London “News
Chronicle,” sees virtue in Eisen-
hower’s “new-approach” policy;
“The aim of the Western Powers
must always be to avoid war by
all means short of dishonor.
But a negative and defensive
policy may no longer be the
best way of preserving peace.”
European Self-interests. —
“New York Times” correspon-
dent’s summing-up: “France
fears Germany more than she
fears Russia. Britain, so long a
happily unanchored island,
shrinks from tying herself into
a Continental system. Germany
is torn between the pull for
union with the West on one side
and for national unity on the
other. These contrary currents
sap at the defence policy in
which this country [U.S.] has
invested vast sums of money
and staked its leadership and its
hope of averting war.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Juvenile Delinquency
The remarks of Mr. Basil Henriques, a
magistrate of very long experience and
chairman of the East London juvenile
court, who felt impelled to doubt the
efficacy of the modern educational
system in the guidance of youth (B.
18/2/’53), are a strong criticism of that
system a§ it has operated since the end
of World War I.
It was about that time that juvenile
delinquency as we know it today began
to show itself. Changes in the educa-
tional system in Britain under war con-
ditions had already done much to destroy
the old-fashioned discipline in schools;
Socialism, with its ideologies, its ideas
about the rights of man and an even
chance for everybody, soon overturned
the system altogether. That was capped
by lifting the school-leaving-age, with the
dual purpose of preventing exploitation
of child labor and retaining full adult
employment after the war.
Previously employment of juveniles
from 12 upwards had been general. Boys
leaving school had been in demand. Tele-
graph- and district-messengers, office-
boys, errand-boys, van-boys and road-
scavenger-boys had for years dived about
among the traffic of London. Great
armies of boys at the most impression-
able ages had found useful work to keep
them out of mischief and to help the
small family budget.
The experience gained in what is to-
day termed the “dead-end job” was, to
the great majority, of far greater use
than two more years of school.
Motor-transport, spreading telephone
services and the impact of modern con-
ditions did away with much of that
Employment, and the end of the war saw
the increasing habit among adolescents
of “knocking off” goods from shop-
fronts —the milder forms of stealing
which gained some impetus from post-
war shortages and rising prices. Hard-
strained family budgets could not afford
pocket-money for growing lads, and the
ability to earn was being restricted.
The enforcement of two years’ extra
schooling did nothing to meet the grow-
ing evil. The old experience that, in the
mass, the boy of twelve had shown
whether or not he was suitable for higher
education went down the drain, every-
body had to get an even chance, and for
more than 75 per cent, of juvenile males
the two extra years of school were
wasted. It is still being wasted, and,
worse, an arbitrary wage-system has
introduced the wicked habit of extrava-
gance to a whole generation of juveniles.
Judicial lenience, with misdirected
humanitarian motives, has done little but
help fill an increasing number of houses
of correction, both in Australia and
Britain. Many of the boys are spoiled
by an ideology which prevents them
undertaking honest work during two of
the most impressionable years of young
life. — Shellback (N.S.W.).
“The Looking Habit”
Reading as a means of learning de-
serves no absolute priority over a visual
medium, such as films, when films are
at least as effective (B. 25/2/’53). Read-
ing is more difficult in mechanical effort
than looking at a film, but it is not
necessarily a superior function —despite
those who think it is better to travel
with difficulty than to arrive with ease.
Both words and films are means to an
end —the communication of ideas and
emotions. These can be communicated
as effectively by films as by books, and
the same purpose can usually be accom-
plished with, less effort by the visual
medium.
To ignore one medium for the sake
of the other is to lose sight of their
supplementary nature. In some fields
words are a more effective means of
communication than films. In others
films are superior. Each medium, in its
own particular way, communicates, and
it is this aim of communication, rather
than the medium itself, which counts.
The criterion for judgment should be:
Is that aim fulfilled efficiently?
The important thing is what is learned,
not how it is learned. The community,
and especially those directly concerned
with education, must keep clearly in mind
the difference between ends and means —
the difference between what and how.
Advantage must be taken of all the
visual aids to learning which modern
science can offer us. Although there is
much to criticise in what is expressed
in the comics and films produced today,
the fault lies, not with the medium, but
with the men who use it. Films, radio,
television and comic-strips are instru-
ments of the human will, and it is in this
human element that the good or evil lies.
This is a machine age, but the machines
are neutral. They are still controlled by
men. It is the responsibility of educa-
tionists to see that the new medium is
used widely rather than to condemn its
use at all. — Carey (Vic.).
The “Little Capitalists”
Early in this century some vote-hunters
were promising the working-class a
Utopian state of affairs wherein every
man would own a house to live in and
one to let. The less trustful (and more
thrifty) strove to acquire their two houses
by individual effort. Their thrift often
took shape in a pair of semi-detached
cottages —a form of building which
offered certain economies in construction
and made a very desirable investment for
a man who was looking for security in
his old age.
Many of Sydney’s suburbs now bear
witness to the thrift which inspired
earlier generations. They also bear
witness to the extent of the encourage-
ment which the building of semi-detached
dwellings received from municipal
councils, who were charged with super-
vising the standard of suburban habita-
tions and with disallowing buildings
which they considered to be sub-standard.
Everything seemed to be going nicely
until the early 1940’5, when these thrifty
individuals —stigmatised as “little capi-
talists”—began to realise that the land-
lord’s lot was not always a happy one.
A series of rent-controlling Acts and regu-
lations converted their nest-eggs into
something approaching a liability.
The obvious solution to this dilemma
was to cease being landlords and, taking
advantage of inflated house-values, sell
the doubtful half of their investments.
In that they often had the willing co-
operation of their tenants, who were pre-
pared to buy the freehold reversion of
that half of the building, with its appur-
tenant garden, for which they hitherto
paid rent.
Now a spanner has been thrown into
the works by a decision of the Land and
Valuation Court. It was held by Mr.
Justice Sugerman that a sale of the fee
simple of one of these separate habita-
"A nineteen forty-five model, I'd say."
tions is unlawful unless the local council
has approved of the “subdivision.”
A considerable body of legal opinion
had supported the view that, on the con-
struction of the relevant provisions of
the Local Government Act, such subdivi-
sions were lawful; that the Act excepted
them from the list of subdivisions for
which a council’s approval was required,
It was argued that a council’s functions
were to supervise the quality of buildings
rather than the identity of their owners;
and that a council could not be heard to
say ffiat a dwelling which it had formally
approved was fit for tenants to live in,
but not for owners.
But Mr. Justice Sugerman’s decision
rejects that argument. In effect it con-
demns the little capitalists to a perpetual
state of little-capitalism. However un-
satisfactory the role of a landlord might
become, they cannot divest themselves of
their incubus without the council’s
approval. And that notwithstanding the
fact that the semis comprise two com-
pletely separate dwelling-units, each with
its own area of garden and yard. At
the same time councils which disapprove
of this severance of ownership can con-
tinue to approve of the erection of blocks
of flats, the upper stories of which have
no yard-space whatever.
In reaching his decision the Judge held
that a council is entitled to look to the
distant future—it might be hundreds of
years—when the buildings are demolished,
He painted the pessimistic picture of two
separate areas of land, neither of
which will be adequate for a
separate dwelling. The council, having
fixed a minimum building area, will then
be constrained to disapprove of any
separate building. The possibility that
the two owners who suffer this common
disability would naturally get together
and erect another building having a
common dividing-wall and -roof does not
appear to have been considered.— S. V-
Wright (N.S.W.).
Treasury Rills
y .. , j
One of the important principles agreed
to at the Commonwealth Economic Con-
ference in London was that member-
countries should arrange their internal
economic policies with a view to curbing
m Tffia ( t r beine the case it is to be exoected
current to
by the Commonwealth Government will
be stopped. Such a method of raising
the wind is, of course, highly inflationary.
The published figures of the Australian
banks’ principal assets and liabilities
show that their holding of Treasury Bills
at the end of November had averaged
nearly £l3O million. By the end of the
year nearly another £2O million had
been added
What the further increase has been
over the last two months, I don’t know,
but a total of £2OO million was men-
tioned during the debate on the 1945
banking legislation. The averages of the
seven trading-banks to the end of
December, 1952, show that there was a
fall from £498 million to £159 million
in their statutory deposits with the Central
Bank, and of the funds so released £9l
million were put into Treasury Bills at
one per cent.
If the general public cannot be in-
duced to invest in Commonwealth loans
in the ordinary way, it is difficult to
know what a hard-pressed Treasurer can
do, but, like the shipwrecked sailor on
his raft, the temptation to take a drink
of seawater must be resisted. That way
madness lies. Taxpayers were staggered
at the amount of the last Federal Budget,
and the man-in-the-street faced with a
similar predicament would have little
option but to cut down on his spending,
That course is one that is available to
the Government, but there are few signs
of its being attempted. On all
hands, waste is rampant and may be
seen in every electorate.
People comment, growl and go their
way with a feeling of helplessness. There
was an expose in The Bulletin
(25/2/’53) of money lavishly wasted on
jaunts abroad by various lucky people
at the taxpayer’s expense. The External
Affairs Department must be high on the
fist for pruning. Only the other day I
read of a “third secretary” at our Lega-
tion in Siam, or some such place,
Senseless expenditure in maintaining
firese overstaffed establishments in every
corner of the world makes the taxpayer’s
blood boil. The electors have every
right to expect something better from the
Menzies Government than this spending
orgy, but they are not getting it and are
not finely to so long as Treasury Bills
are available in place of the public’s
understandable reluctance to lend its
mo ney direct. — Ceg (Vic.),
. .. - , „ ... _
ar Inventions Award Committee
Last war, an appeal was made for ideas
for improving equipment of our forces
0 r otherwise aiding the war effort. To
prevent blocking by senior officers—
which ha d happened frequently in the.
past _members of the forces were allowed
to ideas direct to the Army In-
ventions Directorate,
Britain did the same thing, but made
awards to those who submitted workable
ideas. We have not yet done so, seven
s after the war ended .
A[ awards jn Britain were tax . £ree ,
-j^ ere b as been no mention of similar
d —when made—being tax-free
I have seen a letter dated Se P tember
I*. r'o^Ledt/SeSmeei!
clami will be considered at thenextmee
mg, of ffie and that he
be mformed of e nothing
his case. To date he has heard nothing
further.
There can be no excuse whatever f
dragging out the business in this fashion,
If allowed to go on much longer, many
claims will not be presented because to
people who would have made them will
be dead. Ex-K.o.M. (o.a.j.


Double victory for Holden!
ISISEN CARS SIfIUIIES
BOTH WIN
NO 1 PLACING FOR 1952
“ 1
es
Official Australian registration
figures for the twelve months
ended December, 1952, show that
Holden cars and utilities
have each outsold
any other make or model.
Golden . *
Next pitest seHfol model
IB SSS Sg ®S
»'«(K, s fc =;
df
gdf
Here are the rea
why Holden is Australia*s first choice • • •
Owners tell why
HOLDEN
is their first choice
"... I spent some years as a
test driver for continental manu-
facturers and can say that this
Holden is a surprise packet dven
to me.
I use the utility in my business
as a caterer, which entails big
loads, bad roads, all weathers
and generally bad test conditions
and despite all this 1 still get well
over 30 m.p.g ."
K. Wills,
Moss Vale, N.S.W.
"... 7 have now travelled
more than 55,000 miles in a
territory which covers approxi-
mately 7000 square miles of
granite belt and much trap-rock
country . . • the most outstand-
ing feature is the petrol economy
which is over "30 m.p.g. Riding
and driving comfort are all that
could beldesired.”
F$W. Sdwarde, Stanthorpe, Qld.
»g. . my first two Holden
sedans which have been used on
street taxi work for 119,000 and
121,000 miles respectively. The
two motors are the originals
and have not been rebored . . .
Petrol and oil economy has been
outstanding . . . The body has
stood up to a tremendous
amount of gruelling work with
absolute satisfaction."
J. Thompson,
Blue Gold Taxi Service,
Preston, Victoria.
Built for Australia. Holden is the only car and the only utility
designed and engineered to meet the special needs of Australian
motorists. It is not by mere chance that Holden gives you the
ideal combination of power, performance, economy and size—
these great advantages were designed to meet Australia’s need.
21 h.p performance plus 30
m.p.g. economy. Holden is the
only vehicle that gives you 30
,mk>.g. economy with 21 h.p.
' performance. The average
petrol consumption reported by
hundreds of owners throughout
Australia is over 30 m.p.g. But
Holden economy does not stop
there. On petrol, oil, tyres,
spare parts, and maintenance
Holden will save you money.
6 cylinder power. The fast-
stepping powerful 6 cylinder
O.H’V. engine is made even
more*effective by Holden’s all-
steel “Aerobilt” construction.
Holden’s 1 ! outstanding power-to-
weight ratio means quicker
acceleration andfsparkling per-
formance W hills and in traffic.
Plenty of room. In both the
Holden seidan and the coupe
utility youi will find surprising
roominess. Check the measure-
ments and see for yourself how
much Holden gives you in com-
fort and load capacity.
Nationwide Service & Parts.
Because Holden is made in
Australia you can depend on
the immediate availability of
genuine, factory-made spare
parts at low cost and specialised
service by Holden dealers
throughout Australia.
gd
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
HOLDEN
USTRALIA’S OWN UTILITY
* There are two Air Chief radios
specially designed for Holden.
* Convenient hire purchase terms
are available through G.M.A.C.
—General Motors’ own finance
company.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
6642 C
Unemployment and “Labor”
"Labor’s” campaign against
the Commonwealth Government
on “unemployment,” based
mainly on misrepresentation and
deliberate panic-mongering for
election purposes, received a
nasty jolt from the last set of
official figures.
In Australia, which has a
population of well over
B,ooosoo, there were 31,550
receiving unemployment benefits
in October, and the latest figure
is only 41,633. This cannot be
equalled in any country in the
world, especially since it is
evident to those who have any-
thing to do with the matter that
at least some of the unemployed
need not be so.
There are a lot of people who
have become so accustomed to
picking and choosing where they
will work, when they will work
and what wages they will accept
that they would rather go on the
dole temporarily than take
employment in some line which
doesn’t provide the maximum
of comfort and convenience.
A notable fact brought out by
the statistician’s report is that
more than half of the 41,633
drawing the dole are in Sydney,
the of Cahill, arch-
exemplar of what “Labor” is
capable of when in office.
This means that the main real
unemployment for whatever
cause —is in a few electorates of
one State and among a popula-
tion of fewer than a quarter of
the whole of the Australian
people.
Electors might reasonably ask
themselves why this extra-
ordinary state of affairs has come
about, and draw their own con-
clusions from the fact that there
are only 20,000-odd people who
need a sustenance - allowance
among the 6,000,000 outside
Australia’s largest and laziest
great “Labor” wen. Some of
those 20,000 are naturally in the
balance of Cahill’s Golden Age
dominion which lies outside the
limits of Sydney, the capital.
The steady increase in employ-
ment in private enterprise over
the past two or three months has
been the more remarkable since
it has been accompanied by an
increase in the numbers who
have gone out of civil-service
employment and have had to be
absorbed by private industry. It
is a fact that if employment were
to increase evenly in all States
as over the last couple of months
there would soon be a short-
age of labor everywhere, except
in Sydney.
It is also a fact that there
would be no unemployed in
some places where there are
unemployed at present if Cahill,
and his friends in other States,
had not stopped their political-
pension and propaganda works
on such enterprises as the
Eastern Suburbs railway, because
the Loan Council refuses to keep
them on the dole.
A great part of the Sydney
situation must be due to Cahill’s
sacking of transport employees
and constructional workers in a
desperate attempt to avoid
bankruptcy.—E. (N.S.W.).
Socialism in Practice
“Heresone’s” comments on
the * sorghum “enterprise” (B.
4/3/’53) should serve to remind
us —if we still need reminding—
how costly Government activities
can be to the taxpayer.
When a private company can’t
pay its way its shareholders
must face the loss. When a
Government “enterprise” gets
bogged we all have to stump up
—unless, of course, taxation
rights are restored to the States,
in which case N.S.W. taxpayers
in receipt of incomes over £9OO
would be the ones who’d be
worrying most.
Certain forms of Government
industrial activities may be
necessary, but they should never
be allowed to become monopo-
lies, and they should stand up to
competition and pay their way.
Public utilities, such as trans-
port and postal services, have
long been recognised as coming
within the jurisdiction of State
Governments ; but in the matter
of transport private enterprise
pays it way where Governments
lose money. The Postal Depart-
ment is now showing a slight
profit—at the expense of every
literate person in the community.
—DiVes (Tas.).
Too Much Waiting
If one could add up the time
wasted in unnecessary waiting
it would make a considerable
figure in 12 months. Even with
an appointment you are often still
kept waiting. I had an appoint-
ment with a dentist and arrived
five minutes ahead of time, but I
sat for half an hour before being
called to the surgery. Rather
ironically, I thought, a notice on
the waiting-room wall read
“Broken appointments must be
paid for.” The dentist would
laugh if I suggested that he pay
me for the half-hour I wasted.
Visit your doctor, hairdresser,
lawyer, or anyone else and it’s a
million to one you will be kept
waiting, notwithstanding the fact
that you,have made an appoint-
ment. Add to this the long
hours of waiting at out-patients’
departments of public hospitals,
the time you so often have to
wait in a bank, a store or an
office to have simple little
matters attended to. The unfor-
tunate part of it all is that so
much of this time lost through
waiting could easily be avoided
with a little organisation ; but it
seems to be nobody’s business to
bother about waiting-time. In-
deed, in some Government de-
partments employees are even
paid for what is known as wait-
ing-time.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Labor’s “Policy”
Reporting on the clauses deal-
ing with the Commonwealth
Bank’s functions, the daily Press
(6/3/’53) quotes the member
for East Sydney as saying:
“Nationalisation of private
banks is still the policy of the
Labor party, but it is also true
that the Labor movement has no
intention of giving effect to any
item of policy against the wishes
of the Australian people.”
There is no need for Mr.
Ward to expound “Labor’s”
policy on banking legislation. It
would be more to the point if
he could explain vHiy, when his
party was in power, an oppor-
tunity was not given the people
to express their views on the
Chifley attempted “bank-grab.”
We can take it that should Mr.
Ward and his colleagues be re-
turned to power no time will be
wasted in reducing the private
banks to a state of impotence.
An essential step towards
totalitarianism is complete con-
trol of the people’s money. Once
that control is secured all other
powers necessary for the func-
tioning of the Communist State
will follow automatically.—
Demos (Tas.).
“On Business Lines”
Commissioner Winsor’s oft-
repeated radio campaign which
includes a statement that the
N.S.W. Railways are being run
on business lines is not backed
up by actual practice.
The departmental direction
that trunk-line telephone-calls
are not to be used to advise con-
signees of the arrival of goods
or parcels, such advice to be
communicated by postcard, is an
example of departmental proce-
dure far removed from sensible
business methods.
Many farmers who are con-
nected to small exchanges ad-
jacent to railway centres and re-
ceive mail only two or three
times weekly are denied prompt
knowledge of the arrival of con-
signments, which in some cases,
such as truck-loads of superphos-
phate, stock-fopd, etc., results in
delayed release of the railway
truck and the imposition of
demurrage charges on top of
considerable freight.
The resultant hostility and ex-
pense in some cases, and incon-
venience in all cases, could be
avoided by use of the obviously
most businesslike method of
communication —the telephone
—which incurs only a very small
cost in such calls.
Mr. Winsor’s message that the
railways “are your railways”
cuts little ice for the client who
has to fork out hard cash be-
cause the department prefers to
use a slow and unsatisfactory
way of tendering advice of
arrivals to its customers. — Ann
(N.S.W.).


SOWING
• • the
QUICK low-cost way!
with Australia’s Biggest Selling Tractor
FORDSON MAJOR
.
V '-'O * # , «*c# r » * • * 11 %!»•• v •
Fordson Major Farms Australia
SOWING with Fordson Major gives yott ft
flying start for a bumper year. In fact, SOWING
is only the beginning of your cost-saving pro-
gramme with Fordson Major ... its economy on
fuel and general running reduces costs on harvest-
ing and other jobs such as pumping water, cutting
wood, digging post-holes and all power-farming
work. Also, there’s a model to suit your own soil
conditions and to work with your trailing and
attached implements. Despite Fordson Major’s
low-cost (its the lowest priced tractor per h.p.
rating) you get this equipment on all models:
Lights, Starter, Brakes, Belt Pulley, Radiator Shut-
ters and Power Take-off. Another great boon is
prompt nation-wide SERVICE . . • anywhere,
anytime! But most important: ORDER NOW!
Don’t chance a last-minute delivery. See your
Fordson Dealer immediately I
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR:
Kerosene Model with
Steel Wheels
£844
Kerosene Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
£1312
Diesel Model with
Pneumatic Tyres
Enquire from your local Fordson dealer .
FM2B-HP
FO R D MOTO R COMPANY OF A USTRAIIfI PTY. LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebus and British Breeds
“Oxo”c A. D. Stuart, general
secretary of Queensland Stations
Pty., Ltd., contends that much of
the country on which British
breeds of cattle have been turned
loose in Australia is in a worse
state today than when the blacks
had it. Yet people blamed the
British cattle and their crosses
for not flourishing on it.
Stuart admits that Zebu-cross
cattle kill well in comparison
with British breeds, but says the
percentage of Zebu-cross cattle
slaughtered in the past 20 years
is so minute in comparison with
the number of British breeds
killed that, some people regard
the comparison as of little real
value.
Reports on the good results
obtained from the killing of
Zebu-cross cattle were borne out
fully by the experience of his
company in 20 years’ breeding
of these cattle, but when com-
parisons were made with results
obtained from the killing of
British breeds it seemed that, in
most cases, such comparisons
were made under conditions
favorable to the Zebu, and were
not such as would be made by
disinterested adjudicators.
It has been established to the
satisfaction of many cattlemen
that the Zebu is highly tick-
resistant, that it will do better
under adverse seasonal or in-
ferior grazing conditions than
British breeds, and that it will
mature more quickly and weigh
heavier, age for age. His com-
pany’s records supported the
last point, and contained an
indisputable mass of evidence to
verify the first two.
The British breeds were the
result of generations of pains-
taking, intelligent workmanship,
from.which Australia had re-
ceived a legacy of inestimable
value in the shape of beautiful
cattle of various descriptions,
each breed possessing its own
special characteristics and ad-
vantages. However, in Australia
in many cases the breeds were
mixed, and a horde of nondes-
cript types were produced which
were called crossbreds —many
called them something far less
polite 1
Also, we had allowed cattle
country to become riddled with
cattle-tick and buffalo-fly, and
then blamed the cattle for not
standing up to such pests. “We
sit down and allow our cattle to
walk miles a day between feed
and water and blame them if
they die in the process. We
fatten them —when we can—and
then walk them for days, weeks,
and sometimes months, along
indifferent stock-routes, and, in
the process of so doing, im-
merse them in baths of poison-
ous liquids and keep them hang-
ing about, sometimes for days,
in deference to rules and restric-
tions of various descriptions, and
then growl if they lose some of
their bloom!”
The Zebu, Stuart points out,
is the progeny of a breed which
has existed for centuries in
backward, undeveloped coun-
tries. Being more-or-less sacred
to the religious beliefs of those
countries, they were left to de-
velop of their own accord, and
they survived the consequences
of ignorance, apathy, neglect
and the misuse of the land on
which they lived. The fact that
this breed survived the condi-
tions with which it was faced
was worthy of admiration, and
if Australians proposed to allow
their country to remain tick-
riddled, unwatered, fly-bitten
arid without adequate transpor-
tation then the Zebu seemed to
be the ideal bovine for it. In
other words, a primitive beast
for a primitive cattle industry.
/
Wool for Market
“Farmer Bill”: A. Afford, a
South Australian wool expert,
stresses two main points in pre-
paring wool for marketing: (a)
Greasy wool is bought on a
combed top-producing capacity,
and (b) to get tops the wool
must be clean-scoured and
combed.
Clean-scoured wool is based
on the yield. Combing process
is affected by the tearing-capacity
which separates long fibres from
short. Long fibres are top, short
fibres noil; top is worth about
six times as much as noil. Faulty
wool and second cuts left in the
wool parcel only add to the noil-
content.
When preparing wool for
market, keep the shearing-board
swept. Second-cuts and pieces
picked up with the fleece increase
the noil-percentage and depre-
ciate the true value.
In efficient skirting scrappy
edges and sweat-dags underneath
the foreleg and the front of the
hind-leg are removed. Shorter
wool across the breech of the
fleece, the result of crutching,
must be clipped out. Removal
of backs is necessary when wind
and sun have rendered the wool
unsound.
Throwing skirtings to the end
of the table instead of on the
floor cuts down labor and makes
for easier checking. When skirt-
ing consists of one line of pieces,
edges and sweat-dags can be
removed and the pieces placed in
the locks. Belly wool can be
treated in the same way.
Afford declares that while
present-day prices are not con-
ducive to much thought or work
being given to preparation of the
clip, the day will come when the
“They’re the bullocky’s twins."
well-prepared clip will make all
the difference between failure
and success to the sheepowner.
Breeding and Feeding
“J. Creek”: Seventy per cent,
of an animal’s breeding goes
down its neck. The best beast I
ever branded was by a Jersey
bull out of a Red-polled cow.
It was a milker’s calf, and if I
hadn’t known his breeding I
would have said he was a Short-
horn—a red-roan bullock.
As a three-year-old, during a
drought, he was killed for
rations at shearing-time, the
only fat beast on the place. His
dressed weight was 8501 b.-odd,
which is an extra big weight for
any bullock in the Queensland
north-west. When he was
weaned he poked about by him-
self. There wasn’t a fence
which would stop him. He ate
everything edible at the shearers’
quarters and homestead.
He had a brother which I
kept as a bull. The bull had the
exact markings of his brother,
and the progeny were all good
beef-cattle; a heifer out of his
mother was quite a good milker,
and developed into a cock-
horned, red-spotted cow. This
cow always had good calves,
and all looked like Shorthorns.
I don’t like Jerseys and I
don’t like Red-polled cattle, be-
cause there isn’t enough weight
on the shoulders. They have
withers like horses instead of
cattle. I’ll say this for Jerseys,
however, they are extra-good
doers, and so were all the pro-
geny of this Jersey-Red-polled
cross. I eventually sold all my


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
etc.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
natter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
>
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vie.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Disaol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Bundle St.. Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney k Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby k 00., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
161bs.
m
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fg
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
'ihe neo-barrere
acts like a hand
■when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8m), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
FKENCH
Corn Cure
<■ ures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anlliony llonlrrns'
LONDON STORY*
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!"
dfg
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple fanning folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better! I
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on $-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
133-125 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
\
wmiiuirfffM
Skleep
Hum
BLOWFLY DRESSING;
taxes EASILY WITH WRIER
Kit IP
-os
Q
THE TOP LINE SHEEP BLOWFLY DRESSING
Manufactured by Australia's largest producers ot DDT.
TAUBMAN’S CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
Sydneys Newcastle. Melbourne. Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
For maximum security insist on
“BIRKMYRE”
TARPAULINS and
HORSE RUGS
made from the Scottish waterproof canvas
with the world-wide reputation for
Dependability and Durability
Available from your local storekeeper
THE BIRKMYRE CANVAS COMPANY PTY. LTD.
5S Parramatta Road Concord. Sydney
146 Chetwynd Street, North Melbourne
Jerseys, and when I delivered I
walked them six miles to de-
livery-point, the purchaser
walked them another 11 miles
and they arrived fresh as daisies.
A week or so later they were
found 40-odd miles away, out
in savannah country at the back
of Millungera, where the Zebu
cattle are at present.
Milk as Stock-food
“Rooster”: The skim-milk
produced on the farm is one of
the most valuable stock-food by-
products of milk, and every 100
gallons of whole-milk produces
90 gallons of skim-milk. It con-
tains practically all of the pro-
tein, milk-sugar and minerals of
milk, and makes an excellent
feed for pigs, calves and poultry
(or foals and lambs which are
being hand-reared). The large
proportion of high-quality,
easily-digested protein in skim-
milk makes it the ideal balanced-
ration medium when used in
conjunction with the cheaper
fodders of low-protein content,
such as barley, wheat, or maize.
At cheese- and casein-fac-
tories the by-product is whey.
There are various forms avail-
able ; best of them is whole-
cheese whey. Casein whey is of
less value than cheese whey, and
varies according to the process
used in making the casein.
Rennet casein whey is the best,
followed by lactic-acid casein
whey, and then mineral-acid
casein wheys.
On a monetary basis whey is
valued at less than half the price
of skim-milk, containing much
less protein. Calves can be suc-
cessfully reared on whole-cheese
whey, while pigs can be fed
large quantities in conjunction
with other foods.
Milk, skim-milk and whey
should always be fed in the fresh
state to livestock, as all of these
foods are ideal for bacteria of
most kinds. When not hygieni-
cally handled germ-infestation
occurs, making the foods unfit
for animal consumption. Unfor-
tunately, not all factories
pasteurise these by-products be-
fore sending them to farmers.
They should. And farmers
should keep the products in
clean containers in a cool place.
Wilga
“Moree”: Have had 40 years’
experience with edible wilga (B.
11/2/’53) on blacksoil country.
As a fodder it is all right for
sheep for about six weeks. After
that sheep won’t touch it and
cattle will die before eating it.
Wilga that has been lopped is
never any good again for
fodder, as nothing will make
sheep eat the second growth.
Unless wanted for shade the
trees might as well be felled.
The best scrub-feed I know
of is boonery. I have put sheep
on to 95 per cent, boonery and,
in good condition at starting,
after four months they held
their condition. It is also
splendid feed for cattle. Lopping
greatly improves the tree, which,
unlike wilga, is edible after being
lopped. Some say boonery is
dangerous with rain on it, but
we’ve never struck trouble,
though there could be if starving
sheep were rushed on to it, with
nothing else to eat.
Boonery is also known as rose-
bush, apple-bush, bullocky-bush
and whitewood.
On Woolclassing
“R. Ney”: J. J. Hardie’s
Wool Classing and Shed
Management, in a new edition,
with instructive plates of wool-
types, is a useful thing for
sheepmen, especially small
sheepmen, to have about the
place.
Hardie, one of the most prac-
tical and best-informed men on
sheep matters in Australia,
here summarised in clear fashion
much of the instructive matter
he wrote. The earlier editions
were eagerly sought, and the new
one, brought up to date and
containing a valuable chapter on
exporting by R. K. MacCulloch,
is on the list of officially-recom-
mended books for N.S.W.
Technical College students.
Compact and to the point,
the book covers all aspects of
shearing and classing from pre-
paring the shed to keeping
shearers’ accounts. The wonder
is that Hardie got so much into
such a small space. Originally
published by The Bulletin, the
new edition is published by
H. T. Wade, Sydney.
Townsville Lucerne
“Sarina”: This low-growing
annual legume, common to
coastal districts north of St.
Lawrence (C.Q.), and found also
in northern inland areas, starts
growth in early spring, and
grows to a height of 2ft. or so
before it dies down during the
next winter.
It does best on well-grazed
country, but may not spread very
quickly under heavy grazing,
since cattle feeding on the
grasses bat many of the plants
down and prevent their seeding.
Normally, however, stock do
not care for the green plants,
but they like dried-up mature
plants and seeds. At this stage
the lucerne has between* 13 and
14 per cent, of crude protein.
It will grow quite vigorously
on harsh, stony or gravelly soils
where grasses have no chance
(B. 31/12/’52), but a fair sum-
mer rainfall is essential. If the
plant is established on hills first,
rains after the first seeding will
take the seeds into the valleys.
Paspalum Ergotism
“Rooster”: When other
moulds or fungi become super-
imposed on the ergot-infection
of paspalum the grass then be-
comes toxic to stock. The life-
history of ergot is complex; the
first noticeable sign of infection
is the presence of sticky glutinous
masses in the seed-head, the
“honey-dew” stage, which is not
toxic to stock. It is, however,
attractive to beetles, blowflies
and other insects which assist
in the spread of the infection.
This stage later develops in the
mature ergot, and in paspalum is
indicated by the presence of
small, round and hard bodies
where the grass-seeds should
develop.
Symptoms of continued inges-
tion of ergot-infested paspalum
or couch-grass are: Cessation of
milk-secretion, loss of condition,
listlessness, obstinate impaction,
nervousness, a staggering gait,
lameness and possible partial
paralysis. Temperature, pulse
and respiration remain fairly
normal, but the coat becomes
harsh and the eyes staring. There
may also be a discharge from
both the nostrils and the eyes.
If disturbed and forced to
move, the affected animal will
stagger and often go down. If
paralysis is evident, the animal
will be unable to rise, and conse-
quent congestion of the lungs
may cause death. In most cases,
however, where no paralysis is
evident, the animal, if left alone,
will manage to rise.
Recovery is rapid if the ani-
mal is at once removed from
the affected pasture and purga-
tives administered. Epsom-salts
and ginger make a good purga-
tive (11b. of salts, \-\oz. of ginger
to a quart of water). Repeat if
necessary. If recovery is slow
give a tonic-powder consisting
of 1 dram of sulphate-of-iron,
1 dram of nux-vomica, 2oz. of
Epsom-salts and 2 drams of
gentian. Give the powder,
mixed with treacle, once daily
for three days.
Control and prevention lie in
good management. When the
“honey-dew” stage is reached
the grass shpuld be kept eaten
down and not allowed to seed.
The fungus attacks only the
flowering head. Where possible;
when the infection is noticed, the
replacement of both paspalum
and couch-grass with better pas-
ture-mixtures, or on low river-
flats with such grasses as kikuyu,
would be sound policy.
Sydney Sheep Show
“R.N.”: More than 300
separate competitions will be
held at Sydney Sheep Show from
May 21 to 23. Sale of more
than 2000 stud sheep will begin
at the Showground on May 25.
Closing date for sheep and
fleece and judging competition
entries is April 15 and for sheep-
dog trials April 18. Schedules
and entry-forms from 33 Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney,
Hints for the Farm
“M.”: To kill the eggs of the
green peach-aphis, spray from
early- to mid-July with tar-distil-
late 2|gal. in lOOgal. of* water
(for home gardens, one pint in
sgal.).
“My”; Keep wood-rotting
fungi out of fruit-tree wounds
by painting them with a Bor-
deaux mixture made of equal
parts of bluestone and slaked
lime in sufficient water to make
a workable paste.
“Quorn”: A flaring lamp-
mantle will cause a lamp-glass
to crack as well as ruining the
mantle (a loss of about 14s. at
current prices). Mantles usually
flare for two reasons other than
turning the wick too high: a
draught or an untrimmed wick.
Attention to the wick at regular
intervals prevents costly running.
“Konanda”; Try dry plaster-
of-Paris on a rag to remove
marks from a wall. A circular
movement done lightly is suffi-
cient. Try it first on a spot that
is not much seen before attempt-
ing a large area. It is, of course,
an abrasive, and will, therefore,
mar a polished surface.
“Valeman”: While poor
strains of seed are often respons-
ible for “blown” Brussels-
sprouts, the condition can be
caused by applying too much
nitrogenous fertiliser. Apart
from the initial dressing of
5-1-1 super., ammonia and
potash, side-dressings should be
applied as soon as picking
starts. About a teaspoonful per
plant of 2-1 super, and potash
is ample. This will keep sprouts
in continuous production until
late August.


ooze of serum brought a film of
coal-dust from the wound; it
clotted as it moved over the
wound edge.
T-M tn
He washed die wound, lea™g
it dean _ and bright. H g
Ivhfflan^ d to g the torn
fitted the skin-flap to the t
area. The ugliness vamshed at
once, and it was as though
nothing had disturbed the skin s
continuity.
The underground heaviness
settled around them; the only
sounds were the even sighing of
the horse and the click-clack of
the needle-holders as the needle
drew the nylon sutures through
and through the skin. The
wound - edges tightened and
pouted as the sutures were pulled
and knotted. He pressed and
wiped the wound, dusted it with
powder. Some small pink areas
where the broken boards had
scraped off the hair showed
above and below the wound.
He cleaned and dusted them.
His hands and arms moved up
and down in an even rhythm as
he passed the roll of bandage
from hand to hand, and the fet-
lock was white and neat in its
covering.
As he finished, the limbs were
scuffling the floor, and the grey
dust rose. The head moved, and
the lolling tongue, caked black
with dust from hanging loosely
during tide anaesthetic, was half-
drawn into the mouth. A heavy
breath blew up the dust. Con-
vulsive paddling of the limbs
filled the tunnel with a drum-
ming and the bandage was
soiled.
Lifting his head, and poking
his forelegs out in front, the
horse half sat up, his head hang-
ing forward. Drunk from the
anesthetic, he propped himself
“"s^trs^
SX'taSS
folwarc j > heaved on to his hind-
le § 8 ’ swayed, surged forward and
stopped. He stood swaying, his
angled out like y t ho Se of
nt ° h H : s t, ead
himg dowllj his eyes were closed,
A sudden lurch and stagger, a
s tumble forward, a jerk upwards
of the head and he stood still,
xhey stood round him, pushing
on either side, holding the tail,
supporting him.
“Keep him moving very
s i o wly, now. Don’t let him go
down aga i n . Won’t be long,
now> and he’ll be right out of
j t ,” said the vet. “I’ll follow you
a i on g.”
jj e gathered his things and
f o n o wed.
|~vUT in the sunshine the horse
U blinked, swallowed, moved
hi s tongue in and out, flicked one
ear f orwar d and then the other,
mo ved restlessly. They led him
aroU nd the clearing,
“xi ie stables are up a pretty
s teep grade—think we had better
take him up there now?” asked
the manager. .
“No. Wait until he’s walking
normally. Give him a drink
here, and take him up in an
hour or so.”
The horse was limping now
on the injured leg as the
anaesthetic wore off. He shook
himself. They talked to him, and
one of them began to rub him
down with a piece of bagging.
Mclntosh,” Bill said to the
gathering.
He ordered champagne.
Madame got very busy with
bottles and glasses.
“Tell the girls I’m a
millionaire. Bill. That will pep
them up.”
They evidently understood
English and gathered round Mac
at once.
Madame suggested showing
the ladies something of interest
and took Lindy and me to see a
gilt bathroom with a gold bath
held up by dolphins, in which
some royal person was drowned.
She was telling us the tragic story
when Lindy made a grab at me.
“Come on,” she said. “What a
trick to get us away from the
men! ”
Madame was very pained.
Mac paid the guide off when
we got into the street where he
was waiting. “You can go home
to mother now,” he said. Then
he took us to a cafe for supper,
ordering so lavishly that soon
the manager was smoothing the
cloth.
Mac said “That orchestra
wants livening up.” Over he
went. I saw him give a tip and
the band cheered up. The room
was fairly full and, in a party
near us, a dark lad was making
extravagant love to a blonde.
They danced kissing all the time.
I dared Bill to take her up for
a dance, which he promptly did.
On returning her to her party
the dark lad slapped her face.
Bill stopped to argue and Mac
hastened over and, after much
talk, brought them back to our
table for a drink. He ordered
more champagne. The lad kept
pushing the girl away. “I know
no harm was meant, but I don’t
like that sort of thing,” he said,
“Tell him who I am, Bill.”
Bill told him. Even then
mention of the Burns-Johnson
fight meant nothing. He told us
he was an American studying
art.
At the end the manager
shouted us champagne.
Another night in Paris when
a girl draped in three bunches of
grapes danced, Mclntosh got
excited over the make of a
cake-bag that was sold during
the interval. “The cakes are
rotten, but I’m going to crib this
for future use,” he said, tucking
the bag into his pocket.
And then, deciding that a
piece of music being played in
the interval might also be useful,
he strutted down to the con-
ductor and held up the orchestra
while he made inquiries, and all
the audience looked on at the
gesticulating Englishman. Billy
Dailey rocked with laughter.
“Isn’t he priceless, the old
blighter! Doesn’t know a word
of French.”
Lindy and I did the shops
while the men went to interview
publishers.
Once, seeing two flowing
beards advancing on two straw-
hatted Frenchmen with light
canes, I said to Lindy “What
lovely beards,” at which they
turned, bowing and hat-raising
most graciously.
“You’d better talk in French
after that,” she said.
Within four days Mac got a
cable from London with bad
news about Rails shares, I think,
and said we’d have to leave at
once for London. We had about
three hours to catch the train.
We went to Mac’s office in the
Strand to see the Lord Mayor’s
procession. He had a room full
of people and drinks in abund-
ance, As the Lord Mayor’s
carriage came into view, Mac
handed all his guests bundles of
leaflets, “Throw them now,” he
said.
Thousands of advertisements
for Mac’s five-bob fight floated
down on the Lord Mayor like a
snowstorm.
Angry policemen came up, but
were soon calmed with cham-
pagne and tickets for the fight.
Mac’s room had deep pile
carpet and mahogany furniture
and cut-glass bowls full of roses.
Once when we called there
Mac was seated at his desk and
Bill Lang on a chair. Mac
introduced us. “See this ,”
he said. “He’s only got one idea
in his head. Seventy pounds.”
“That was understood at
first,” Bill ventured.
“There you are,” Mac said
with his jowl between the roses.
“He’s going to say seventy. It’s
fifty. Bill. Get that into your
head.”
“With me trainer and expenses
I can’t fight for fifty, Mac.”
No doubt Mac wore him down
in the end* He was storming
London with five-bob fights
while Eugene Correy was charg-
ing a guinea. Mac was causing
the sporting-ring some concern,
for Correy called on him.
Mac said of him “He’s a great
bloke. He’s putting me wise to
buy Mexican Rails.”
Mexican Rails and some other
ventures like that failed and left
Mac broke within a couple of
months. This ended any possi-
bility of Mac’s going on with the
“Casanova.”
My mother had given me
Grandma’s address and earnestly
entreated me to go and see her
when I got to England. “She is
living in the same place, only it’s
been rebuilt. It’s a hundred-and-
ninety-something in Chestnut
Tree Walk, Kennington. Just
ask. Anybody will tell you
where to find her,” Mother said.
Grandma had had two beaux
in her girlhood days who went
walking with her every Sunday,
without noticing each other, their
names being William and
Jonathan. William was the
favorite, but shy. Grandma took
the reins into her hands and said
“William, if you don’t want me,
Jonathan does.” So William
became my grandfather and
set-up house in Chestnut Tree
Walk.
Chestnut Tree Walk sounded
quite nice till I got there. If
there ever was a chestnut-tree
in that street it must have been
in the days of King Charles, for
it was a street of square, small
blocks of flats built from the
footpath. Most likely the one
that Grandma was in had been
built around her, for I was given
to understand that she had
always lived there.
My first inquiry for
Grandma’s whereabouts was to
a bunch of scraggy kids playing
at the portal of one of these
stone caves, numbered one-
hundred-and-ninety-odd. “Up-
stairs,” they all screamed at
once, following and directing me
up four flights of brick steps.
They turned out to be
great - great - grandchildren of
Grandma’s.
I was admitted by a pleasant-
faced woman, daughter-in-law to
Grandma, therefore my aunt,
which is as far as I will venture
on the family-tree.
Grandma was seated near the
stove in the living-room. She
was ninety-nine, thin and eagle-
faced with alert eyes which
darted about her parchment face
like mice scurrying for a hole.
A little white lace cap sat on top
of a few strands of tightly-
drawn-back hair, and a white
bib was tied around her neck
with a handkerchief knotted to
its string and resting on her
shoulder.
A dress of rusty black fell
around her in folds, in which
her two skeleton hands inces-
santly fumbled as if searching
for something.
“This is Rosa’s daughter from
Australia. You know, your
daughter who went to Australia,
This is her daughter,” Aunt
explained to her as she leaned
over and wiped away a dribble
with the handkerchief on the
string.
Grandma darted suspicious
eyes at me, nodded a “No” and
signalled Aunt to a whispering.
“She says you’re an impostor,”
Aunt said, and busied herself
with some pastry that she' had
been working on when I arrived.
“Just knocking up a few cakes
for afternoon-tea for you.”
“I never eat between meals.
Just a cup of tea,” I said, noting
with what frequency the pastry
hands transferred to dribble-
wiping.
The scraggy kids hung around
the table grabbing at bits of
dough, which seemed to annoy
Grandma. She kept making
grabs at a saucepan to throw
at them, hastily dropping it when
she caught me watching her.
She refused to answer when I
spoke to her, staring fixedly at
the stove at any word from me,
darting suspicious glances at me
the whole of my visit.
From their tunnelled abode
arqund the street two other
ancient aunts came in to view
me, one of the kids having been
dispatched for them during our
tea-drinking. Their arrival sent
Grandma into a futile frenzy of
nods and darting eyes.
“What on earth is the matter
wijh Granny?” one asked.
“It’s just that she has made
up her mind that Rosa’s
daughter is an impostor,” my
cheerful Aunt explained, which
sent Granny nodding again in a
frantic effort to make them take
sides with her.
I felt that Grandma longed to
see me pitched out the door.
When I did leave two fierce
eyes watched me out, without a
flicker to my “Goodbye,
Grandma.”
• • • •
Almost daily I went to the
ship-department at the South
Kensington Museum, to stand
about while Norman sketched
ship-models. Old Whiskers Bill,
late of the seas and now
attendant, hovered around whis-
pering about dead-eyes and
belaying-pins. It was a boring
business for me, so I often
slipped out and walked up to
Hatred’s to look at the lovely
clothes in the windows, quite
beyond my purse.
Norman’s idea of a jaunt was
to go to the Tower of London
and make drawings of the
daggers and chopping-blocks, or
pay a visit to the old church that
Sam Pepys went to. We got
caught in a midday service there,
It just started as we were look-
ing at the bust of Mrs. Sam, so
we backed to the wall and stood
taut. I saw Norman drift away
as if pulled by invisible wires till
he reached the door and slid out.
I saw the service through and,
when we went out, the verger
whispered to us The gentleman
If ft w° r d ft iat be was going to
the South Kensington Museum.
The “Petronius” drawings were
finished, and there was nothing
to delay our departure for home,
W 0 booked our passage on the
Osterly to leave towards the end
°f November, and began to pack
with joy m our hearts at the
thought of Home and Sunlight,
Norman had not been well for
quite a while, unable to shake
off a cold that he said he had
caught the first day that he
arrived. He had been in England
about a year and I eight months,
He spent his last days drawing
ship-models at the South
Kensington Museum, and the
evenings working out the plan
of a ship-model to be started as
soon as he arrived in Australia.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 217
Across.
I— Blood-drivers of the happy set
fire to a suit. (5, 6)
7 —Who is urged by electrolysis to
vote for a frog who would a-
wooing go? (3)
9 —Dirt and ego separating King
George and Yours Truly. (5)
10— The obligation to intercept
square-cuts done by traffic
policemen. (5, 4)
11 — Harass men in the wrong. (7)
12— The disorderly unsmear the
patronymic. (7)
14 — Carson outfit. (3)
15 — He makes baritone music what
goes round and round? (4)
17 —Sourest examination for sailors.
(7)
20 — Victorian mountain club is
joined by Bradman. (7)
21— The Gallic medical graduate is
a wool-producer essayist. (4)
24—The French boy. (3)
27 —Confines batting seabirds. (7)
29 — A bird to leave shanghai. (7)
30 — I am a case, being unable to
wait unrestively. (9)
31 — South American steppe on every-
thing in reverse. (5)
32 One of the 12 tribes of Israel
has a bar for splitting rock. (3)
33 Election bogey corrodes these
pet talkers. (4-7)
Down.
1 — Will helps him support a place
to drive. (7)
2 Encouragement to Ginger is
afflicted with a glandular dis-
order. (7)
3 Not the single muscle-bearing. (6)
4 Enlarge the discourse concerning
the former Irishman that Yours
Truly swallowed. (9)
5 Going loco oyer these mocks?
6 Had a session with a girl over
the east to censure with irony.
(8)
7 Quakes disturb? a mouse’s com-
ment. (6)
g—Pen in the tenanted pen for pigs.
(6)
13 —Drop a note up or down. (5)
16 —Dean to act before getting
money for a Nip. (5)
18— Though put tip for elevated
reasoning and imagined (like
American publicity stunts). (7-2)
19 — A considerable distance for the
blonde to dance. (4, 4)
22—Lively music for the thankless
Anita tomato with the first to
cut. (7)
23 — Plant mentions an insect s be-
reavement. (7)
24 Having regard for a sovereign
under 51. (6)
25 — Excavate to arrest Edward. (6>
26 — Stable personality. (6)
28 —Mention the letters in enchant-
ment. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 216


names
lIIICHIB®**
£
in a land of
I _____ y
•SLm*
Queensland is big in EVERY way. Big
in area; big in natural wealth; big in
national development; big in its place
in Australia's future; and biggest of
all in OPPORTUNITY!
The national projects and primary
production development neces-
sary to Queensland's needs must
be conceived and carried out on
a large scale. Agricultural imple-
ments, together with world-
proven earth-moving equipment
and tractors necessary for this
work, are products of the
world's best-known names
Caterpillar, John Deere*, Bald-
win-Lima-Hamilton, Michigan.
o
a
opportunity
Your opportunity for assured profitable investment in Queensland's future is directly offered by the
90.000 shares available in Hastings Diesels Limited. .... .- . ... _
A wholly-owned subsidiary of this Company represents in Queensland the great Caterpillar Tractor
Co the world-famous John Deere Tractors and Agricultural Implements, and other big names.
ill.
x
g
nsion
0
510 ‘ Aisn i ; $a«S€P mb
REGULAR DIVIDENDS!
■The Hastings Deering Group of Companies, by paying
regular dividends; has now returned to original
investors 100% of their original investment!
The new issue of Hastings Diesels Limited at
£1 each offers investors the same golden opportunity.
The first 100,000 shares in Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by the Shareholders in our group of
companies within two weeks of publication of the
prospectus.
H ASTINCS DIESELS
; , v .‘.'V- .«- y Vi' -■’ .. ,• ~ •, ■
Hastings Daering Building, William Street, SYDNEY
Phone M 0412 (33 lines)
Hastings Deering's hove themselves taken up £325,000 of
the original authorised capital.
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
df
DIVIDENDS
Capital = £lOO,OOO
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2,600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue
of ordinary shares.
My name
Address...--
„ State


-
pip . s .
.
' %4 hM
'
aS^Wfv 5 * .as*
rnM : m
m
t%wn tiomt
1
M
P
■J
;'-s
■
ms
m-'Smm
m
v-
jrl ' > '•■ H .
sp:
Bas;
mmm
mm
mmm
y-':
m
m
msti
mm*
■ *
r AN i
INDEPENDENT
.SERVICE STATION j
, ; jf
Our
Customers
like • • •
Fill from the
.Red , "White & Blue Pump at
AN
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
* * «
. \ i *
; *• ’
iiiii
”u..»u mßh
y\\U*
s
i a %
Tt i 1 1 s 11 1 111111 int I ’MSSSM^ 111 in u,,i £
?:
ii mini i Miiiiiuir 'tmiiiJiDJiini
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.
ALL
STATES
