

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
ROSE LINDSAY: VISITORS TO SPRINGWOOD
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3818
Wednesday,..April 15, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
PERCHED IN A TREE, CHARLES II DODGED THE FOE AT BOSCOBEL
BOSCOBEL, famous in English history as having been the first place of
refuge in which Charles II took shelter after the Battle of Worcester, is
Situated near the Shropshire village of Tong. The battle took place on
September 3, 1651, in which two thousand Royalists were killed and eight
thousand taken prisoner, most of whom, on Cromwell’s orders, were sold as
slaves to the American Colonies.
Charles II escaped from the battlefield, and, although pursued all night
by his enemies, he managed to evade capture. By dawn on the following
morning he had, with his attendants Lords Derby and Wilmot, reached the
woods near Boscobel House. Here the King concealed himself in the branches
of a large oak tree while his pursuers actually passed under it. He remained
in the tree all day, and in the evening was given shelter in Boscobel House.
This property was, at that time, the home of William Penderell, a forester,
who, with his family, ignored the huge reward offered for the King’s capture
and gladly gave him food and refuge. He was concealed in a hiding-hole
beneath the floor of this two-storeyed half-timbered house, shown in the
accompanying illustration. Later, the King, in disguise, escaped to the
seaport of Brighthelmstone, now known as Brighton, from where he sailed
for Dieppe in France.
After his Restoration, the oak at Boscobel was destroyed by souvenir-
hunters, but two trees raised from its acorns still flourish today, one at
Boscobel and the other in Hyde Phrk, London.
The escape of Charles II from Cromwell in the oak tree at Boscobel
is still commemorated each year by Oak-apple Day celebrations carried out
by the Pensioners at the Chelsea Royal Hospital, London.


uj m
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
tOO Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAlL’—’-
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 153) Age
The Red Page
THE ARTS OF LIFE
Misia Sert — Two or Three Muses, the
Memoirs of Misia Sert (Museum Press)
—was born Misia Godebska on the day
after her mother had arrived in Russia
in response to an anonymous letter say-
ing that her artist-decorator husband was
carrying on an affair with his young aunt.
She was brought up in Belgium in the
house of her wealthy grandmother,
among jewels, furs, painting and music,
and under the care of a succession of
stepmothers ; but at about 14 years of
age, unable to stand one of her step-
mother’s ill-treatment, she secured enough
money to go and stay by herself in
London.
Returning to Paris, she continued to
live by herself until, at the mature age
of 15 years and three months, she married
Thadee Natanson, her first stepmother’s
nephew, proprietor of the now-famous
“Revue Blanche,” which interested itself
in Mallarme, Valery, Lautrec, Vuillard
and Bonnard. Her husband was begin-
ning to fancy himself as a financier, ana
introduced her to one of the most rich
and influential men in Paris, Alfred
Edwards, theatre-owner and proprietor
of “Le Matin.”
Edwards made her husband director-
general of coalmines in Koloschvar, sent
him there and waited patiently for him to
get himself in a hopeless financial tangle.
Then he announced the price of extricat-
ing him —Misia. This businesslike wooing
turned into a reasonably happy marriage
until Edwards fell heavily for the actress
Lanthelme. Then, growing old, and tired
of the rigors of theatrical passion,
Edwards asked his wife to get Lanthelme
to give him up. The actress made cer-
tain stipulations as to millions of francs
and jewels, but, much to Misia’s shock
and horror, the main price was —Misia.
Rejecting the transaction, and unable
to cope with Edwards’s dereliction, Misia
consoled herself with, and eventually
married, a Spanish artist and decorator,
Jose-Maria Sert. With him she was
happy; on her side it was a real and
final love-affair; but he loved a beautiful
model, and there were tragical scenes
ending with the death of the model;
then Sert had his marriage annulled and
was remarried in Spain. When he was
nearing 60 his wife died, and he came
back to spend his last years, still a painter
and something to do with diplomacy, if
not with, - then near-at-hand to, his
admiring Misia.
This lively trellis, watered with millions
and millions of francs —she spent the
300,000 gold-francs dowry of her first,
comparatively poor, marriage on a
trousseau from Watrigant’s, “the finest
lingerie-house in Brussels”—blossomed
with a fabulous assortment of the most
celebrated names in modern art. Liszt
took her on his lap in her grandmother’s
house to make her play a Beethoven
bagatelle. Faure was her piano-teacher,
and wept when she gave up music for
marriage. She heard Debussy play
through his opera “Pelleas,” singing all
the parts himself, some months before its
premiere, and could only “flush scarlet”
when he asked what she thought of it;
and Debussy never forgave her after she,
Ravel and Brdval settled an income on
his destitute first wife.
Ibsen made her a present of his photo-
graph, for which he usually charged (“the
sale of photographs was a pet source of
income to the great man”); Mallarme
wrote a famous poem, with her name in
it, on her fan:
So many beautiful things which were
made for me have passed through my
hands and disappeared. I can feel no
regrets for all the lovely poems which were
lost, or for the dozens of Lautrec’s draw-
ings on ray menus which were swept away
with the evening’s crumbs, or. even for the
sonnet by Verlaine in which he explained
why I was like a rose Today people say
to me in such tones as an art-expert might'
use to a well-bred iconoclast: “What a
pity not to have kept those things! What
a loss to art!” And yet thirty years ago
those same people could scarcely repress
their laughter in front of Renoir’s paint-
ings and refused to pay me 200 francs
for the finest Van Gogh, one hundred
and fifty of whose pictures I had bought
in order to help his widow.
She was among the dozen who attended
Debussy’s funeral, and walked behind
the funeral of Verlaine, with whom,
among others, she used to forgather in
the back room of a coachmen’s cafe and
whom she used to visit in hospital.
Lautrec used to stay at her house on the
Yonne at Villeneuve, and for hours, a
game which pleased them both very
much, while she sat on the grass, he
would tickle the soles of her feet with a
paint-brush;
I was in the seventh heaven when he pre-
tended to be painting imaginary landscapes
on my feet.
Calmette, editor of “Le Figaro,”
crawled across the floor to her on his
knees to plead with her to persuade her
husband (Edwards) to reinstate him, after
Edwards, inviting him home to dinner,
had announced his dismissal; Remy de
Gourmont, exquisite critic and poet, dis-
figured of face and careless of dress, for
whom she had such admiration that she
went to great trouble to have him visit
her, was shown up the back stairs by the
officious concierge. Not knowing this,
she afterwards let him out the front door:
“I was convinced,” he said softly,. “that
there must have been other stairs leading
to such a wonderful flat.”
She roused Caruso to indignation, for-
bidding him to rehearse any more
Neapolitan songs on the Edwards yacht;
Renoir was wheeled into her apartments
in the Rue de Rivoli to paint his portraits
of her, his brush bound with rubber-
bands to his hand knotted with rheu-
matism ; and raved at the news that New
York Metropolitan Museum had paid
50,000 francs for his big portrait of the
Charpentier family, now one of the
museum’s greatest glories:
“What did you get for it?” I asked.
“What did I get for it!” poor Renoir
shrieked. “Three hundred francs and a
luncheon!”
Proust confided in her and coquetted
with her husband (Sert); Diaghilev was
her friend until death; and it is hard to
say which is her more scarifying scene,
that of Diaghilev’s raging grief when they
broke it to him that Nijinsky had married
a woman or that of Diaghilev’s death in
Venice, leaving 6000 francs, the priest
reluctant to administer the sacraments to
a Greek Orthodox churchman and Lifar
and Kochno, in the room at dawn with
the dead body, roiling on the floor,
tearing at each other, biting one another
like wild beasts. They were in the grip of
real fury. Two mad dogs were fighting over
the body of their master.
Soon after the recent war she revisited
Picasso, whom she had met in earlier
years through her Spanish husband.
Picasso showed her his canvases:
How happy he would have been to see
me carry onp away.... I loved him much
too much to be able to cheat him about
my feelings. When he saw me out and
kissed me at the door, I perceived his large,
clear eyes fill with tears. I would have
giveri\a lot to have been able to say: “I
love this one” One cannot produce three
hundred and sixty-five masterpieces a year,
and it sometimes happened that Picasso
painted several pictures a day Picasso is
a tender being and his taste so perfect that
it is almost a miracle... .But this man,
whose influence has survived all upheavals,
is, in a certain way, terribly weak; nothing
in his opinion is worth the endurance of
even a few minutes’ restraint, effort, or,
above all, boredom
Misia’s autobiography, on the other
hand, is, like her life, quite an effort;
and few who care for first-hand informa-
tion on art and life will fail to enjoy it.
A Word from Henry Miller
Mr. Henry Miller is known to a
small circle as the author of two novels,
described by Edmund Wilson as “very
low,” which have been banned most of
the way round the world, except in Paris,
where they were published; and
Remember to Remember (Grey Walls
Press), a set of reminiscences and poli-
tical philosophisings, will probably be
his first introduction to most readers.
It reveals Mr. Miller as an impassioned
discoverer of great art in improbable
places, a sentimentalist over the American
poor in the manner of Saroyan, and a
lone-wolf in politics after the fashion of
Wyndham Lewis:
This is a lone man’s view. I have no
axe to grind, no party to sustain, no ism
to further. All I clamor for is that
freedom, that security, that peace and
harmony which all these conflicting groups
advocate arid promise. I don’t want it
when I’m dead. I want it now. Every-
thing I do is with that purpose in mind.
I ask no one to sacrifice himself in order
to promote my ideas. I demand no
allegiance, no taxes, no devotion. 1 say—
free yourselves to the best of your ability!
Among the artistic discoveries are the
novels of a black bootblack which Mr.
Miller thinks are “bad perhaps, atroci-
ously bad, but exciting,” and the paint-
ings of Jean Varda of Monterey who lives
in a house built entirely of refuse, does
“collages” with bits of colored paper and
rag mounted with thumb-tacks, and, sur-
prisingly, teaches women to canter:
To Varda women gravitate as naturally
as bees to the flower. He enchants them,
as Orpheus did of old. He clothes them
in fitting raiment, tells them how to dress
their hair, suggests the flower or the per-
fume they should use, teaches them the use
of their limbs, what stance to take and
whether to bound like an antelope or canter
•like a palomino.
There is also the negro artist Beauford
Delaney who paints “small canvases of
street scenes, virulent, explosive, devoid
of human figures, mad with color” ; the
contemplation of whose sad existence
in the Manhattan winter leads Mr.
Miller to the outcry;
While he [the genius] is alive, while he
is a man walking the earth, while he is a
living creature dedicated to the highest
pursuits, he must not hope to eat anything
but offal, nor associate with any living
creature other than beggars and alley-cats.
Above all he must not ask for creature
comforts, for warmth and light; for soft
music... .not even for a glimpse of the
sun through the barred windows.
It is a curious book to explore but, in
its overemphasis, deafening. At least,
however, it is not likely to be banned like
the two novels. The few rude words
it contains seem put in merely to show
that Mr. Miller can still swear if he
wants to: a very enviable accomplish-
ment.
Australian Crime-novel
You're Wrong, Delaney, by Bant
Singer (Collins), is a first-rate crime-
novel in the Raymond Chandler tradi-
tion, the story being told by Delaney, a
man suspected of the murder of a night-
club proprietor.
Delaney is, when the book opens, be-
ing questioned by the police in a large
country town whither he has fled from
the scene of the crime. The police
release him, but he must stay in the town
and report to them daily. Within the
limited area of the place he sets out to
make a living by rigging a pool-gam©
and blackmail, and to uncover the true
facts of the murder. Engaged on these
pursuits he becomes involved with a brace
Of surprising characters, including the
lovely nympholept Elaine, whose crippled
husband owns a flourmill, the gentle
housemaid Kathy whom he grows to love,
and a very villainous villain.
Although written in American idiom,
the setting of this yarn is recognisably
Australian. “Bant Singer” is Charles
Shaw, alias “Mat’s Mate,” alias “Old-
timer,” etc., who last year published a
best-selling novel in an entirely different
mode: Heaven Knows, Mr. Allison.
It is an excellent thing that Australian
fiction-writers should sell their work on
world markets, but it seems unfortunate
if, as in this book, they must lose their
own Australian speech in order to do it.
On© would like to see this author turn-
out thrillers of equal excellence as re-
gards plot and action, but where Aus-
tralian characters speak in their own
manner. After all, our criminal slang is
said to be as rich as any in the world:
why deprive the rest of the world of its
nuances?
N. K.
Short Stories
The nearest to what one used to
consider a short-story in John
Pudney’s The Pick of Today’s Short-
stories; Third Series (Qdhams) is
A. A. Milne’s “The Wibberley Touch”
about a gigolo who stole a woman’s
purse in a restaurant because he
couldn’t pay his bill, and the
brightest, “An Engagement at the
Theatre,” by Maurice Richardson, is of
a young official of the British embassy
in a South American capital who be-
came the lover of the leading-lady of a
musical comedy, not realising that this
entailed his attendance, every night of
the show, in the small stage-box of the
theatre, to watch his beloved’s perform-
ance. The night he fails to attend her
brawny brothers pick him up and escort
him to the theatre. It is a charming story,
told with verve.
Nigel Balchin gives a wry account of
the upbringing and disposal of the half-
caste child of an innkeeper’s daughter,
begotten during the war by an American
Negro serviceman ; George Beardmore is
quaint about a centenarian who married
and begot a child, who went on collecting
an annuity after the wife had contrived
the centenarian’s death ; William Glynne-
Jones is amusing about the means used by
Ruthie to secure a proposal from Daniel;
Richard Hughes (of High Wind in
Jamaica ) has an ingenious Welsh story of
a thief who persuaded his victim, out of
the kindness of the victim’s heart, to say
that his previous imputations of dis-
honesty had not a word of truth in them
—and then sued the victim for defama-
tion of character; Margery Sharp is
passable, in a pedestrian way, about a
girl, her jealous invalid brother and her
holidaying newspaperman-lover. Last,
but certainly not least, there is Dal
Stivens’s comic fantasy, “The Champion
Horsebreaker,” about Rawhide Harry
who did such wonders with an elastic,
rawhide lariat —which appeared in The
Bulletin and was broadcast by the
8.8. C.
From this anthology, which is not
necessarily representative, and is much
inferior to the anthology of “Horizon”
stories published a year or two ago, it
would seem that the British short-story
has lost the interest in everyday life that
it had in the times of Wells, Bennett,
Conan Doyle, etc.; the grand banality
of assured art, and the social satire that
speaks of an interest in living: one finds
more of these things in the work of Aus-
tralians like E. O. Schlunke, “Standby,”
David Campbell, Brian James, “Macnell,”
Clive Barry, or M. G. Vincent, to
name only a few Bulletin contributors;
and in the Parramatta stories of Ethel
Anderson a union of poetry, elegance and
malicious wit which would seem to have
completely deserted the English scene. —
R. McC.
Hollywood Novel
The Producer, a novel by Richard
Brooks (Heinemann), begins with pre-
liminary arrangements for a talkie, de-
scribes everything the producer, and most
others, do to make it, and concludes with
the picture made. Mr. Brooks is no
tearer-aparter on the grand scale, but at
least he tries to see Hollywood clearly
and without glamor. Also, he explains
for the layman such mysterious matters
as the precise distinction between a
producer and a director.
Matthew' Gibbons, the producer, is
almost at the point which divides assured
success from failure; he needs one
“prestige” picture that is also a box-office
success.
He is first seen carrying out one of the
producer’s most important jobs: the dis-
tribution of Christmas presents —the im-
portance of the job being emphasised by
a message from a woman-columnist that
he is a louse. Anxious thought and
frenzied phoning bring news that the
camera-shop has forgotten to send the
woman-columnist her Christmas-present
camera.
He has already decided that the
scenario written by a respected Holly-
wood has-been from a famous novel is
not good enough. He wants to bring in
a young New York writer. To do this
on his miserable allocation of one and a
half million dollars he must be satisfied
to have an unknown heroine, who is sexy
enough, but not quite what he wants.
But he considers that the New York
writer and the first-class hero will com-
pensate for the girl’s deficiencies. Next
he has to stand firm against the first-class
hero’s reluctance to appear in an un-
sympathetic light at the end of the picture.
This film, at least, is to be noble and
profound.
Matt Gibbons, as producer, watches
every detail of the new scenario, argues
points with old Volke, the director, who
is to preside at the filming, and whose
ability is to change prose ideas into visual
ideas ; goes hunting locations with Volke,
engages cameramen ; arbitrates upon dis-
cussions between scenarist and director;
personally checks every point of the ward-
robe.
He achieves a compromise with the
Breen Office over breaches of Holly-
wood’s morality-code in the script:
Page 35: The direction, “he slaps her
playfully.” Where does he slap her?
The biggest crisis comes when the head
of an anti-Communist organisation whom
the New York writer has snubbed in a
Hollywood restaurant indicts the New
York scenarist as a Communist-sym-
pathiser and Matt Gibbons decides to
stick to his writer. The anti-Communist
organisation is represented as being
almost, if not quite, as big a “protection
racket as anything devised by A 1 Capone.
Sinclair Lewis’s Main Street is men-
tioned with approval in the book; and
possibly Mr. Brooks had some idea of
dealing in like manner with Hollywood
(a previous novel, by the way, became
the rather artificial film “Crossfire”);
but the resolutions of Lewis’s best things
were into something a little more pro-
found than moral earnestness; and it
must be admitted that a scent of this,
or something very like it, permeates Mr.
Brooks’s book—at any rate it is a first-
class serious study of Hollywood at work.


i
m
55
m
v
assg*
At far left:
The table lamp with natural wood
base, £2/12/6. Richly polished.
The unusual lampshade of Danish
pine is priced at £2/14/11.
Below left:
Famous Australian potter, Martin
Boyd, made and hand'painted this
table lamp. Priced at £2/9/6 and
£4/10/6. The plastic collar shade,
gunmetal colour, priced at £4/2/6.
Below right:
The new basketweave lampshade
matches any interior decor. Priced
£2/7/6. On base of natural wood,
push bar fitting. £2/17/6.
Above:
10in. oral shape lampshades
in red, yellow, green parch'
ment with drop base fittings
for table lamps. 19/11.
It’s the shape behind the
lampshade that makes it so
intriguing. Nowhere else than
at Anthony Horderns’ do
you find so many differently
shaped galvanised frames.
For indirect or direct light'
ing, they’re superb! Prices
start from a very low 4/-
so you’ll be able to afford
all you want.
Lampshades, Third Floor
Right throughout our Furnishing Floor (the Third) you’ll
discover lovely -to-live-with furnishing ideas, you’ll discover
The new shape in lampshades and furniture
No longer are these new furnishing ideas Just dreams in glossy
magazines ! Now we’ve made them yours. Modern but sensible and
homey; sensibly priced, too !
\ q i
mm ", ''l
■ 1
■mm
I
f m
• V
m
The Moderne is a deluxe China and Cocktail Cabinet. You’ll fall in love
with the brilliant, smooth lines of this Cabinet. Glass shelves, sliding doors
in China section. Cocktail compartment has gleaming mirrors on sides and
a blue'glass base. Natural honey colour or blonde finish. 3ft. 9in, high.
£57/6/3, or £l/19/5 monthly, over 2 years.
m
m ..
mmm
!- ’I
• x ' ;.X ‘
\ % WsB&<,; J&
The more unusual the shape of small decorative
tables, the greater the contrast with the rest of
your living room. Use at least one as a foil to
your lounge suite —this one, for instance, in free
form shape and natural maple colour, £9/3/«.
Four more of our galvanised
frames (prices start at only
4/-), Sturdily made, they
give complete support to your
shades whether wall or ceil'
ing fixtures or clamp-on bed
style. Order them by mail
or ’phone. When in town
next, see them displayed in
our Lampshade Section.
Lampshades, Third Floor
a TRUTH w ADVEatt^NCr
iBpMjppnw
sdf
LAMPS, LAMPSHADES, THIRD FLOOR. FURNITURE, THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Great Pacific Story
CONTRA KON-TIKI
By H. A. LINDSAY
WHART - SMITH inquired (B.
25/3/’53) if I had read Thor
, Heyerdahl’s American Indians
in the Pacific. Here are the
facts.
There were only two advance copies
of the work in Adelaide, but I was able
to borrow one for a few hours. It being
impossible to read the whole 800-page
work in the time, I had to concentrate
on those portions dealing with aspects of
the matter about which I had learned
something in a 20-year study of ethnology
and anthropology.
On this reading of selected passages I
would not have presumed to write more
than a few paragraphs, but later I inter-
viewed a very distinguished scientist who
had left America a few weeks previously.
When he confirmed my conclusions I
wrote the article “Kon-Tiki Mare’s Nest.”
Since then I have borrowed the work
from the S.A. Public Library and have
read it with great care from cover to
cover. It is well written and its argu-
ments are convincingly presented—but it
does leave out quite a lot, as I said it
did in my original article. Heyerdahl
has made the cardinal error, which always
leads to false conclusions, of formulating
a theory and then seeking facts to fit it.
All the conclusions which he draws are
shattered by a few plain facts.
Heyerdahl gives scarcely a mention to
southern India as being the original home
of the Polynesian race, yet quite a lot of
evidence points that way. A few
examples:
(1) The wild ancestors of many of the
food-plants which they grew in the Pacific
are found either in southern India or in
Indonesia.
(2) Colonies of people of Polynesian
stock are found today on Madagascar,
off the east, coast of Africa, and on the
islands off the west coast of Sumatra.
Southern India lies midway between them,
and strong traces of the Polynesian strain
also shows up in some of the peoples
now living there.
(3) The world’s leading authorities on
languages place the Polynesian tongue
in the Austric language group, whose
original home is India and Further India.
(4) Drawings of the big Polynesian
sailing canoes, as seen by the first whites
to explore the Pacific, bear a striking
resemblance to vase paintings of the craft
which used to voyage from the Persian
Gulf to India.
(5) The Coromandel Coast of India,
prior to the Aryan invasion in pre-
Buddhist times, was the home of peoples
who had reached the same high neolithic
culture as the Polynesians.
Another series of significant facts,
ignored by quite a number of people
beside Heyerdahl, can be gleaned from a
study of Polynesian legends. Over and
over again the saffie pattern emerges.
Younger sons of chiefs would set off in
a canoe with some faithful followers to
seek a new kingdom of their own. Sur-
vivors on the losing side in a battle
between rival chiefs for supremacy on an
island would be allowed, as an act of
grace, to sail away in an attempt to find
a new home on some hitherto unsettled
island.
In this way, over a long period of time,
island stepping-stones were populated all
the way from South-east Asia to the
farthest corners of the Pacific. Many
canoes would be lost, of course, but some
were bound to win through.
The colonisation of New Zealand illus-
trates the point. The famous fleet which
left the Society Islands about a.d. 1350
consisted of only six canoes, carrying no
more than 300 men and women. Allow-
ing a very generous estimate for the
number of canoes which had gone to New
Zealand prior to this, we get at the out-
side only some 3000 settlers arriving in
New Zealand from a.d, 1100 onward.
Yet a simple calculation will show that
their descendants would easily increase
to the 300,000 Maori inhabitants of the
country when white settlement began.
Naturally, with so many canoe voyages
being made over the centuries, some
craft reached all the lands within the
tropic and temperate zones bordering on
the vast Pacific, To quote but two cases,
typical Polynesian artefacts have been
found on the coasts of California and
Australia.
Project this same thing back to the
period 2000 b.c. and we get a picture of
sailing-canoes leaving now and then from
southern India, for the reasons outlined
above. Having a crew of no more than
fifty, half of them women, they could not
invade and conquer any country already
inhabited by numerous —and probably
hostile —savages. They had no alternative
but to settle on isolated, uninhabited
islands. In time, population pressure built
up on these islands, forcing some of the
people to sail off in search of a new
home, or the causes mentioned previously
operated again, and so the pioneers of
the race moved ever farther from their
homeland, where the people were now
being over-run by the hordes which in-
vaded India.
Once these fundamental facts are
grasped, all the other pieces of the great
jig-saw puzzle start to drop into their
correct places. We see why the Poly-
nesians always settled on islands. It
shows why we find scant archaeological
evidence of their having established any
large settlements as they passed through
the East Indies. It also explains why,
having reached the General Pacific at
the Society Islands, many centuries had
to pass before the people there became
numerous enough to start colonising all
the other islands;
In putting his parent Polynesian colony
on islands off the coast of British
Columbia, Heyerdahl is just as vague as
any of those with whom he disagrees.
He merely says offhandedly that they
had come from somewhere along the
coast of East Asia or from the Philip-
pines. As I said in my original article,
his arguments work equally well in
reverse. Those islands are far more
likely to have been settled by voyagers
from Hawaii.
Heyerdahl makes no mention of one
important factor which enabled the Poly-
nesians to discover islands lying far out
in the ocean wastes of the Pacific—the
flights of migrating birds. The shining
cuckoo led the great Kupe to discover
New Zealand about a.d. 900, The
golden plover flies to Tahiti from Alaska
and back again by way of the Hawaiian
Islands. Not only would this bird lead
to the discovery of Hawaii; it would also
lead voyagers to N.W. America.
Heyerdahl builds a great deal upon
prevailing winds and ocean currents in-
fluencing the direction taken by canoe
voyagers, but he overlooks the triangular
course being taken for a round voyage.
Canny European shipmasters were doing
this very thing even before Capt. M. F.
Maury, U.S.N., published those wind and
current charts which revolutionised sail-
ingship voyages. By sailing to the apex
of a triangle, renewing stores there, then
sailing down the other side to the destina-
tion and returning before the wind along
the base of the triangle, there is no beat-
ing against wind and current.
As a matter of fact, this same thing
is still being done today by the Kula-
Ring canoe traders of Melanesia. These
people have a strong strain of Polynesian
blood and they take a circular course on
their voyages, thus having fair winds all
the way.
We can sum it up by saying that small
groups of proto-Polynesians, travelling in
canoes which carried fifty people at most,
started out from southern India about
2000 b.c. and moved, generation after
generation, from one lot of island homes
to another until they had colonised the
Pacific.
Heyerdahl must be given full marks
for at least two things. A letter just
received by air-mail from America seems
to put it very fairly. “He has definitely
shown that die best way to study deep-
sea marine biology is from a raft such as
the one on which he and his companions
made their drift voyage. Further, by
arousing public interest in the subject by
writing a very readable book about his
raft voyage, he has done a service to
Pacific anthropology, for now research
workers may be able to get adequate
financial backing for their work.”
Many notable scientists are opposed to
Heyerdahl’s findings because, where I
can shoot a few holes in his reasoning,
they can make it look like a sieve.
If Mr. Hart-Smith (or anyone else
interested in the great Pacific story) hasn’t
read the following, I advise him to do so.
For Polynesian navigation, The Raft
Book by Harold Gatty. For Polynesian
astronomy, The Morning Star Rises by
Maud Makemsom. Above all else, I
suggest he reads the many scientific
papers on Pacific ethnology and anthro-
pology which have been published of
late years, particularly those by Professor
J. B. Birdsell. This will give him some
idea of the number of authorities whom
Heyerdahl does not quote, for reasons
to be found within their pages.
Heyerdahl’s ingenious attempts to
solve Pacific ethnological and anthro-
pological puzzles cannot stand up to a
few plain facts, notably the existence of
colonies of people of Polynesian stock
in the Indian Ocean.
On Hock and Hoof
TOO many people have the im- v
pression that chiropody is one
oi those professions like politics
that can be picked up as one
goes along even by persons without
any talent whatever
This is utterly false, for one needs
special attributes. For instance
when a new client comes limping in
and obviously in savage temper the
chiropodist must combine keen
psychological insight with a capacity
for making lightning decisions
He has to determine instantly
whether the corn-owner’s agony is
such that he’ll pay almost anything
to have it ended and set the figure
beforehand accordingly, or whether
prior mention of it will so inflame
an already-ripe temper that the client
will hobble furiously out to a rival
fetlock-fancier after telling him off.
Determining a client’s capacity to
pay is an art he must master early in
his career.
With women this is comparatively
easy. The dowager who obviously
regards her nose as an organ down
which to look at others rather than
for its olfactory properties, and who
wears several rings on her right
hand, can safely be soaked four times
as much as the woman who wears a
bun on top of her head and talks
about pickles and measles and the
dreadful price of potatoes. The
chiropodist who has previously
worked in a furriers and is able to
distinguish mink from dyed rabbit
is at a great advantage.
But with men it s different. The
unskilled chiropodist might be
tempted to let off at ordinary rates
the fellow in the baggy suit, amor-
hon that he is a country visitor who
runs 30,000 Merinos.
On the other hand he mav after
treatment, bdl a fetw heavdy who
comes in wearing a 20gn. suit, a new
Borsolino and suede shoes only to be
met with a thrown-down two bob
and a “There, and think yourself
lucky to get that!” from the working
journalist he had mistaken for some-
body with cash.
The tools needed for the work are
few and inexpensive; a pair of tin-
snips, pliers for the bending-up of
particularly stubborn toenails, a set
of fine pruning saws, a wood-rasp, a
pair of seccateurs and a rubber
vibrator.
The most prolific source of a
chiropodist’s income is the corn,
which, though humble, must be
treated with the respect due to it.
He must never in any circum-
stances be persuaded to extirpate it,
for by so doing he will be cutting his
revenue off at its source. Pleadings
by his client to lug it out may per-
suasiyely be resisted by pointing out
that its roots might well be inextric-
ably mixed with the extreme end of
the sciatic nerve, and that interfer-
ence with them could set in train an
agony even more dread. It must
always be remembered by the tyro
that any healthy corn can be made
to yield continuing riches.
I myself may with modest- pride
claim not only to have kept one corn
in full employment, as it were, for
over 20 years, but to have helped
grow two corns where only one grew
before —surely a laudable objective
in a country whose greatest problem
is that of under-production, I was
able to achieve this by pointing out to
my client that her corn was due to
wearing shoes too big for her small
feet, the “play” causing friction be-
tween toe and shoe, I advised her
to get a size smaller.
She was highly flattered and,
shortly, two-corned. Her belief in
my explanation that slopping around
the house in slippers had caused it
was quite touching.
The modus operandi of pruning
even the most case-hardened corn
can be quite simple even for the be-
ginner. All that is needed is to place
the client’s spare foot immediately
beneath a heavy paperweight which
the chiropodist will previously have
balanced precariously on the edge of
his desk. A well-judged touch with
his knee against the desk while his
tinsnips—much more reliable than
scissors, though pinking-'Scissors may
be used where special embellish-
ments are desired —are accurately
poised, and he can snip through at
the moment of impact.
The howl of anguish as the paper-
weight falls will let the chiropodist
know that his client hasn’t felt the
top of the corn coming off, a most
gratifying result.
The client can be mollified, if a
woman, by telling her, after prettily
apologising, how stunning her hat is,
or that he had almost mistaken her
for her daughter ; if a man, by telling
him a funny golf story. A tickle
over the soles with the rubber vibra-
tor will quickly restore good humor -
all round.
Thereafter the corn should be
thoroughly smoothed off with the
wood-rasp. This is important,
especially with women, who may
overlook the paperweight but never
a carelessly left hard corn-edge that
may ladder a stocking.
Toenails which have been let get
fairly long are best cut with secca-
teurs, but a good follow-through
action is necessary. If very thick
the pruning-saw should be used.
Finish off with a touch on the car-
barundum-wheel.
Bunion treatment calls for less of
art than of artfulness. A touch of
the vibrator around the perimeter, a
dab of lolly-water made with a few
grains of Condy’s in water (“This
solution, madam, is specially im-
ported from Bechuanaland and costs
ten guineas a drachm! ”) and all that
is then needed is to go outside and
make the visible dent in the shoe a
bit larger for the bunion. Satisfac-
tion is guaranteed.
Bo.
“The Bell Place”
by M. G. Vincent
One of Miss Vincent’s most pene-
trating domestic dramas presenting an
almost unique character to fiction: a
nagging daughter-in-law; and also a
mystery.
In next week’s Bulletin story batch.
"Gone Up"
Torres Strait islanders had a good many
curious death customs.
One on Yam Island related to
the ascent of the departed to the spirit
world. Outside the deceased’s house a
cane-rope was stretched between two trees,
and rattles of goa-nuts (like large beans)
strung on it. When the “markai” or
spirit of the dead man returned to re-
enter the body it became entangled in the
line, the rattles operated, and thus gave
warning of its approach.
The body lay on a low platform. Out
from each end of this a flexible pole was
planted in the ground; to these was
fastened a rope with a heavy ball on it
made from the dark timber used in
fashioning dugong harpoons. At a speci-
fied time a number of male friends con-
gregated at either end, under a leader;
and when a signal was given, each leader
pulled back the ball until the rope was
taut, and suddenly let go. The resultant
loud impact was signalised by all the men
flinging themselves flat on the ground,
with eyes staring up towards the heavens.
They were looking for indications of a
darkening cloud, which meant that the
spirit of the dead man had duly “gone
up.”
MUNDANA.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 15, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3818
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE PRESS AND THE PEOPLE
A country might once fluke a Government
like the McGirr or Cahill outfits of N. S.
Wales. But when the people return such Ministries
again and again there is no fluke about it.
A series of “Labor” Governments which have
remained in power for 12 years must in some way
reflect public opinion. And that is the shattering fact
which has to be faced by all those who believe in
honest, efficient and democratic political administra-
tion. Above all, it is a challenge to the Australian
Press. When a Government will not lead the people
towards democratic unity and economic sanity a lead
has to come from some other source.
Many people were astonished to observe the poli-
tical somersaultings of some Sydney newspapers with
very large circulations over the past 18 months or so.
Ever since the Federal Government began to put into
effect its promise to stem inflation and save the value
of the Australian pound there have been the most
amazing and irresponsible eruptions from the morning
dailies. The flurry of articles pandering to the selfish-
ness of the shortsighted and unthinking has been
revolting.
The Menzies-Fadden Government had thrust
upon it the very difficult task of scotching a boom
before it became raging inflation. Its job was made
more difficult by the fact that for 12 years there had
been a, stretch of unbroken war-time and post-war
inflation, and there was virtually a new generation of
voters who had worked only under conditions of “full
employment” and easy money, with little or no regard
for individual industrial output. Even the soaring
world price of wool added to the hothouse, imper-
manent economic conditions. Further,, in 1948
the 40-hour week had come into operation, with a
consequent decline in productivity and a violent boost
to costs and prices. Social standards had been
corrupted by the blackmarket and similar rackets. All
these problems, and many more, the Menzies Govern-
ment inherited.
In order to make the most practicable
use of the nation’s manpower, materials and
money, and to stop monetary inflation, the Menzies
Government adopted the straightforward course of
budgeting for a surplus, increasing income tax, and
imposing high sales-taxes on luxury goods. Also,
because of the runaway increase in imports that was
far outstripping our income from exports (which were
down in value because the U.S.A. was cutting its
purchases from all sterling sources), imports were
suddenly restricted. Immediately a Press hullabaloo
ensued, led by the “Sydney Morning Herald,” and it
was from Sydney that most of the heavy artillery was
ranged against the Government. Australia was offered
by the Press the most political economics that it has
ever had to digest. Nobody seems to know yet what
provoked the “Herald” to such fury in its
denunciation of the Government’s economic policy.
In addition to the internal problems confronting
the national Australian Government, there was the
question of defence. The war in Korea had become
a running sore to Western nations, though for a time
it was the main stimulus to prices for our exports.
For Australia to fulfil its obligations the largest defence
Budget in “peace-time” history was necessary. Com-
munism throughout the world was becoming stronger
every day. The Government’s anti-Communist legis-
lation had been rejected by the High Court and by the
people at referendum, and the slow process of dealing
with Communism through the unions had to be
resorted to instead.
Though it may be that the Federal Government
tackled the problem with more courage than finesse,
it really has attempted to govern Australia.
But it is an Australia that has largely lost
track of values. Political honesty is scarcely
to be found among the Socialists, who are
tied to the party wheel with raw-hide ; they dare not
veer an inch from the course set by the A.L.P. juntas
in the trade-union hierarchy. The Parliamentary
“Labor” party has established just about the lowest
common denominator in political practice, especially
in Parliamentary and electioneering standards. The
A.L.P. has not yet freed itself from sinister Com-
munist elements, and where, through the Menzies
secret-ballot amendments, it has managed to get rid
of some Communist trade-union commissars, it has
given the Government no credit. The “Labor” robot
will acknowledge no Government but a “Labor”
Government.
Australia today has more than its share
of wire-pullers, pressure-groups, lobbyists, political
sectarians and plain, ordinary grafters and
LAUNCHED
racketeers. Corruption is discovered in the
mpst startling places, and it is amazing how
reluctant State “Labor” Governments are to deal
with corruption of democratic principles or the rule
of law. Almost every day, where the oppression of
Socialist government extends, the scope for rackets
and corruption extends in the same ratio. And honest
endeavor similarly retreats.
The Australian people need to be brought back
to the idea that what we want we must work for, and
to the principle of a Fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay. Remarkable ideas of money-for-nothing exist
among the younger generation, and these ideas have
been given apparent substance by the fact that for
years past we have been able to eke out our present
inadequate man-hour production with the savings of an
earlier generation.
The Press of today devotes much of its space to
distraction and entertainment —comic-strips, semi-
nudes, lottery results, prodigious “sporting” and
“magazine” sections and “social” gossip—at the
expense of news and comment of national interest.
Too often news becomes “slanted” in its gathering or
editing. And when, with an election at fyand, a news-
paper suddenly decides to support responsible govern-
ment, it generally does so with too much black type
and “display” and too little show of belief in what it
is saying.
An Austrian economist of our own time, Ludwig
von Mises (who lived through the totalitarian terror
in Europe), has said: “The masses, the hosts of
common men, do not conceive any ideas, sound or
unsound. They only choose between the ideologies
developed by the intellectual leaders of mankind. But
their choice is final and determines the course of
events. If they prefer bad doctrines, nothing can
prevent disaster.”
The duty of the Australian Press in a politically
irresponsible and brain-scrambled community was
never more apparent.
Jeremiah at Marrickville
As it was reported in the daily Press it was difficult
to recognise Dr. Evatt’s “policy speech” in the Senate
campaign. Actually, it smacked from beginning to
end of the techniques employed by Communists —
rabble-rousing, panic-mongering, an appeal not to the
whole electorate but to swinging votes: to the
unemployable and shiftless who make a profession
of being out of work and living on fat doles, or who
work part-time and pretend to be unemployed; the
pressure-groups who wish to squeeze taxation down
at the cost of the defence programme ; the kind of
retailer who secretly wants inflation back, since it is
his harvest-time ; the .gullible pensioner. In fact, every
section of the community which might be up for sale.
Nobody unaware of the facts and listening to the
Doctor’s jeremiad could have guessed that while he
spoke the roads around Sydney were packed with the
cars of workers returning from a long Easter holiday,
that hundreds of thousands of pounds had been paid
out that morning in Sydney by bookmakers, that week-
end betting turnovers and race-attendances were
records throughout Australia, that the sales of yearling
thoroughbreds were also breaking records, and that
Sydney Show alone had attracted attendances equal to
one-eighth of the total population of the Common-
wealth.
Nobody would have guessed that the country
from end to end was brimming over with money from
a record wool- and primary-export season, that rural
conditions were universally better than in living
memory. There was no hint that prospects for next
season were as bright as could be, that a record number
of Australians are abroad spending money like water,
that motor-car sales for the past year had exceeded
those of years past, that the cost of living is falling, and
that national revenues are buoyant to the pdtot of
embarrassment.
Dr, Evatt’s themes were the “horror Budget” of
1951; the Government’s “despicable” policy of
“cutting the purchasing-power of the people”; the
stifling of the building industry which provides homes
for the people (who could get them only on the black-
market when Dr. Evatt and his merry men ruled); the
refusal to use bank credit for the schemes of Messrs,
Cahill and Gair and to “put value back into the
pound” ; the creation of “fear and uncertainty” and of
conditions under which “a new class of poor have
come into existence” ; the “vicious sales - tax” ; the
general burden of taxation crushing the country “under
enormous loads” greater than even “those levied in
World War II” ; the “pool of unemployment” which
the Menzies Government supposedly fosters deliber-
ately in order to keep its malign grip on the throat of
the oppressed workers; the “frustration akin to
despair.”
In respect of every one of these things “a serious
situation has been created,” a time in which the posi-
tion of families with small fixed incomes has become
“desperate.”
But—leaving out the fact that their existence is a
phantom and an invention for the most part—how
does Dr. Evatt propose to cure it all? He won’t tell.
He says that this is not the time for “Labor” to state
its intentions and its plans and ask for a mandate. It
j s on jy a t j me t 0 treat Senate election as an
“opportunity to censure the Government,” to give a
“crushing verdict’ against it and to prevent a series
constitutional deadlocks by giving Labor a
Senate majority a procedure, of course, which wou
inevitably make a deadlock between the houses or
Parliament permanent and normal,
All “Labor” is prepared to. commit itself to is
that with a Senate majority it will try to persuade the
Government to reduce taxation (which it knows
already the Government intends to do); try to per-
suade it to a full employment policy, which it already
has, an 4 which, despite all propaganda to the contrary,
it keeps in existence to an extent as great as in any
country in the world and greater than m most; try
to retain uniform taxation, the handing back of which
Labor” Premiers dread as they dread the p ague ,
a ? d tr Y to build the foundation for the restoration
°i a stable and expanding economy next year
tde Doctor expects to be returned to power,
In other words, “Labor” proposes to try to take
credit for everything the Government does in 1953-54
in order to beat it at the next election.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Sole Objective
Easily the most staggering statement
made in an election campaign for years,
the whopper of all whoppers, is Dr.
Evatt’s assurance about the death of
socialisation. He said that the Menzies
Government, in the role of scaremongers,
had exhumed the “dead issue of socialisa-
tion” knowing full well that no socialisa-
tion programme could be undertaken
without the consent of the people at a
referendum:
The fact is that because of the decisions
of the High Court socialisation is a com-
pletely dead issue. You cannot have
socialisation on an AustraUan basis with-
out the people giving their consent to
it.... Mr. Menzies promised that his Gov-
ernment would pass legislation so that
there could not be socialisation without a
referendum. There is no need for legis-
lation to provide that. The law says that
it is so.
The interest in this statement, which
must have caused consternation in inner
“Labor” circles, is twofold. First, it
contains an admission that in 1949, when
it produced the banking legislation, the
Chifley-Evatt Government was bent
upon socialisation, a fact which it
strenuously denied and even pooh-poohed
in the 1949 election campaign. Secondly,
it is a repudiation of the measures which
are being advocated and have been con-
sistently advocated by Mr. Calwell and
Senator Cameron, Mr. Ward and other
leaders of the party nearly as prominent
as the Doctor himself.
It is only a matter of weeks since Mr.
Calwell was airing his views and Senator
Cameron was calling for the destruction
of the capitalist system through capital
levies and heavier taxation. And Dr.
Evatt, while he gives his denial, is bare-
facedly making an issue in the campaign
of the Government’s desocialisation mea-
sures in the air-lines, in oil and in banking
—“giving away the people’s assets,”
according to him and his party.
A party exists only to promote its
objective and the sole objective of the
“Labor” party is, and has been for the
past 32 years, socialisation.
Its “principles of action” are set out
officially (Rules and Constitution, p. 51)
as:
Socialisation of industry by
<a) The Constitutional utilisation of
Federal and State Parliaments, Municipal
or other Government created authorities.
(b) The national planning of economic,
social and cultural development of the
Commonwealth.
(c) The complete control of banking and
credit by the nation.
(d) The organisation and establishment
of co-operative activities in which the
workers and other producers shall be
trained in the management, responsibility
and control of industry.
(e) The cultivation of Labor ideals and
principles, the development of the spirit
of community service and the recognition
of the responsibilities of citizenship.
(f) The establishment of economic and
research bureaux.
(g) Progressive enactment of reform,
as defined in the Labor platform.
All these principles are adopted, it will
be marked, for the express purpose of
the “Labor” party and that only—
“socialisation of industry.”
If Dr. Evatt thinks that the objective
is dead and is advocating some other
objective, then he has ceased to be leader
of the Labor party and ceased to admit
that that party’s objective is practicable ;
and he is flagrantly breaking the pledge
which Labor Parliamentary candidates
are constitutionally required to sign and
which is set out on p. 49 of the Rules
and Constitution:
I also pledge myself to actively support
and advocate at all times the party’s
objective'—the socialisation of Industry,
production, distribution and exchange.
If that pledge is outmoded Labor has
nothing to live for.
Medical Insurance
Two American experts, Messrs. E. A.
van Steenwyck and W. McNary, now in
Australia, have nothing but praise for the
Commonwealth Government’s medical-
health scheme.
Van Steenwyck says the American
health-insurance scheme, to which
90,000,000 U.S. citizens are contributors,
paid 80 per cent, of medical fees and
100 p.c. of hospital costs for its sub-
scribers in return for a monthly contribu-
tion of about £AI 10s. for all-family
hospital cover and about the same for
medical and surgical insurance.
The great problem in the United
States, he said, was to “get enrolments
in the lower-income group,” but the Aus-
tralian scheme appeared to take care of
that situation by providing Government
subsidy:
By combining the best aspects of the
British health-insurance and the American
voluntary schemes Australia had the possi-
bility of evolving the best health-scheme
in the world.
This appears to be justified, for the
Australian scheme is unique. It is honest.
which the so-called “free-medicine”
schemes of “Labor” are not, since they
are not “free” but call for the taxpayers
to find the cost. Under the Page scheme
those who pay know what they are
paying for and what they will get for
their money, and if they do not wish to
pay and prefer to carry their own insur-
ance they can do so. The charge is
about a third of the U.S. rates.
The Government, on its part, under-
takes to provide, without individuals
contributing, those services which it is
vital to national welfare that the com-
munity should compulsorily pay for—
supply of milk to schoolchildren,
immunisation, free life-saving drugs and
a proportion of hospital and medical
benefits, free doctors, hospitalisation and
free medicine for pensioners and for
those unable to assure because of age,
chronic disease or other causes.
The State Governments and the
medical profession are brought into
partnership under conditions which pro-
vide safeguards as far as possible against
the abuses which have grown up under
the socialised schemes of New Zealand
and the United Kingdom.
The weekly contribution to the insur-
ance concerns—which already are operat-
ing on a large scale—is equal to only one
return fare from the outer suburbs of
Sydney into the city, and the scale of
cover for every type of hospital and
medical attention is remarkable. Income-
tax concessions for money spent on
medical attention and drugs, of course,
reduce contribution-rates substantially
for most classes of subscribers.
It would be difficult to frame a more
equitable plan, especially since it should
be self-reducing in cost to the individual
through its own expansion.
Jervis Bay Base
In recent years the R.A.N. has initiated
several important developments, among
them the establishment of a large, well-
equipped air-station at Nowra (N.S.W.)»
and, this month, another at Schofields;
the acquiring of two light Fleet-carriers,
Sydney and Vengeance, the latter to be
•replaced by our own Melbourne; the
stressing of anti-submarine training and
basing of two British submarines in Syd-
ney to facilitate practical work in the
science; the concentration on refitting
War II destroyers as fast, modernly-
equipped A/S frigates.
To these can be added the decision to
shift the naval college from Flinders in
Victoria to its original site of Jervis Bay,
some 90 sea-miles south of Sydney. This
could be followed by the depot itself.
Flinders Naval Depot, built on re-
claimed swampland fringing an inner arm
of Westernport Bay, is peculiarly unsuited
for a naval base. Access to the sea lies
through a narrow, shallow channel, up
which the old destroyers Vampire and
Tattoo could, with care, navigate. Now
nothing bigger than corvettes is based
there. Trainees and cadets required to visit
destroyers, cruisers and carriers for in-
struction must either be shipped out to
the Fleet in the bay or entrained for Mel-
bourne, 50 miles up the line. Even the
rifle-range lies a long boat’s trip across
the bay.
Jervis Bay, one of the finest deep-
water harbors on the N.S.W. south coast,
with a protective opening well lit by the
powerful Point Perpendicular lighthouse,
is capable of berthing the whole Fleet,
and a good deal more besides. It is large
enough to allow of torpedo-firing and
recovery, and even practice gunnery
shoots. At Flinders the target-towing
aircraft used on the a.-a. range was some-
times sent down from Richmond (N.S.W.).
At J.B. (as the bay is known in the Fleet)
the naval air-station at Nowra is a few
miles inland. Radar-tracking of fast,
modern aircraft and a.-a. sleeve-target
firing will thus be greatly facilitated.
The shores of the bay, and surround-
ing timbered country, are ideally suited
to recreation parties—evidenced by the
civilian exodus from Sydney to those
parts during holidays. Flinders is a
lonely, land-locked site. J.B. is, as it
should be, a blue-water base.
Bridging the Murray
After the Murray crosses the South
Australian border it swings south,
changes its mind, goes north and west to
Morgan, then, as though startled by a
sight of Mt. Lofty and the Adelaide hills,
dives due south to the sea. Thus it puts
a long water-barrier on land-transport
between the most populous parts of S.A.
and the eastern States.
This is because, except for the isolated
centre of Broken Hill, Australia north of
the lower half of the Murray is empty.
People and goods moving between S.A.
and Vic to ria-N .S. W.-Queensl and there-
fore must cross the river. Yet in its 400
miles from the border to the sea in S.A.
the river is crossed by only two road
bridges.
All right 20 years ago, when S.A. was
little more than an agricultural com-
munity, its only industrial significance the
smelter# at Port Pirie and the Holden
motor-works at Woodville, the few small
factories other than these supplying local
demand and a minor market in Victoria
and West Australia.
It’s a lot different now. The industrial
expansion during and after World War 11,
combined with the driving personality of
Premier Playford, his colleagues, and
private people who realised that a new
era had opened* for the State, together
with the stability and enthusiasm of the
workers and the discovery of useful
mineral deposits, changed S.A. in a
decade. From 590,000 people in 1933 its
population jumped to more than 665,000
in 1948. It acquired an entirely new
town of 10,000 at Whyalla, expects to
have a city of 25,000 at Salisbury in the
next few years.
Adelaide is ringed with new factories
and new suburbs. All the north as far
as Port Augusta is feeling the impulse of
new life, all the south-east is burgeoning
into farms, Adelaide itself is bursting at
the seams. And, most significant of all,
not only is it hard to find a factory or
store or private home in Victoria or
N.S.W. which doesn’t contain something
made in S.A., but S.A. is of first-class im-
portance in the defence programme of
Australia and the Pacific.
In all this progress the Murray River
is a king-pin. To maintain Whyalla it
was necessary to run a 230-mile pipe-
line from the river right round the head
of Spencer Gulf. Shortly the towns and
villages along the way were using Murray
water. Another great pipe-line now runs
from the river to the reservoirs of Ade-
laide, the city having outgrown its natural
catchment areas. What is needed now
is more bridges across that river.
Except for Murray Bridge and Ren-
mark—where the bridges were primarily
built to carry railways—all the main river
crossings at Wellington, Mannum,
Pumong, Swan Reach, Blanche Town,
Morgan, Waikerie, Kingston and Berri,
are. by punt. All are slow, all
are affected by the state of the
river (there were five-hour delays at
some during Easter), all seriously slow-
down the land-traffic flow from S.A. to
the eastern centres of commerce and
population.
The Doping Cases
This year’s A.J.C. autumn meeting has
produced the most sensational horse-
doping cases thus far added to the Aus-
tralian racing records. When not only a
winning Doncaster hot favorite and
winner of the two-year-old Sires’ Pro-
duce “classic” are among the doped but
the bag includes also the names of lead-
ing trainers and rich racing men, and
even eminent racing authorities, then we
have really moved into the top brackets
of sporting scandal.
The general public attitude —racing
public, anyway—is one of half-humorous
acceptance; philosophical resignation to
the only-to-be-expected. Despite the
“demonstrations” of apparent or simu-
lated or pocket-provoked anger at sus-
pected racerigging, “pulling,” “boat-
races” and suchlike nefarious practices,
nothing on earth produces such a propor-
tion of certifiable philosophers as the
Sport of Kings, And their philosophy
takes in doping as they themselves are
taken in by it and the rest.
Actually, it is a triumph of a sense of
humor over the sordid, for in reality few
things are more sordid than this seamy
side of racing. Long before the A.J.C.’s
dope-tests the doping of horses —good
horses, too —was practised on Australia’s
leading courses, Sometimes regularly on
the one horse (when a win was wanted),
with cruelly crippling effect on the
animal in the long run.
On that ground alone, action to try to
stop the sordid practice and punish the
guilty was needed and overdue. And it
is most probable that the A.J.C.’s
measures have been a deterrent, as it is
also highly probable that the practice is
more common on the courses of leading
race-clubs which do not make regular
tests than it is at Randwick or Warwick
Farm. None the less a question now be-
comes imperative which must have been
for some time troubling the A.J.C.
Simply, who precisely are the guilty and
how pin tlie guilt?
Earlier, the A.J.C. did rush in where
angels would have been more careful.
Melbourne authorities declined to rush,
but then Melbourne authorities may un-
consciously be rewarding many more
doped winners than the A.J.C. these days
rewards. The early A.J.C. practice was
to “wipe out” all concerned, giving only
the rider the benefit of a perhaps con-
siderable doubt. Almost beyond ques-
tion, some innocent men suffered. In at
least one case the outed owner treated
his horse as a special pet, called him by
the pet-name of Ginger, and it seemed
would no more have thought of doping
him than letting him go without his
dinner.
That wholesale “outing” went on, as a
matter of fact, till some Very Big Names
astoundingly became involved. Some of
the latest lot are very choice names in-
deed, So the A.J.C. is in the throes of
second-thoughts, and well it might be.
Yet its anti-doping crusade deserves full
praise and encouragement. A dilemma
calculated to make the A.J.C. authorities
themselves reach for the dope bottle.
One of Those Forms
“Clooter” : They call it Form Q 3 (Indi-
vidual). You get one and fill it in if
you reside in Australia and have money
coming from England. By filling it in
you avoid double-taxation. Advised to
get one, I presented myself at the local
taxation-office and showed the letter of
advice.
The officer studied it, pursed his lips,
concentrated.
“Take a seat. The man you want is
Mr. Whoosit. He handles this sort of
thing. I’ll call him for you.”
After ten minutes my name is called.
“I’m sorry,” he says, “Mr. Whoosit
isn’t available just now. But here’s his
extension number. You can ring him
up.” He writes the number down, gives
it to me. Igo back to work.
Later that day I ring. Mr. W. hasn’t
returned. I don’t ask where he is.
Next day I ring again.
“Mr. Whoosit? He isn’t here. Per-
haps I can help you.”
I tell him what I want.
“Oh, I’m afraid Mr. Whoosit handles
that. He’s downstairs somewhere. Could
you ring again?”
About 2-j hours later I ring again.
“Who? Mr. Whoosit? Oh, he’s down
in the public.”
“The public? Gripes, I’d of thought
he’d be in the saloon.”
“Ha, ha. I mean the public-enquiries
section.”
“Oh, can I get through to him there?”
“Well, he’ll be interviewing.”
“I see. Oh, well. I’ll try later.”
Next day.
“I’m sorry, Mr. Whoosit isn’t back
from lunch yet. Can I help you?”
I tell him about it.
“M’m, that’s not in my line. Could
you call Mr. Whoosit later?”
In the next four days I ring six times,
Mr. W. is harder to find than the man
who rode the white bull through Wagga.
I sit down and think it over. I’ve
had dealings with Government depart-
ments before. I decide to start again.
This time, I tell myself as I head for the
taxation-office, I’m not leaving till I’ve
got that form if I have to stay all day
and half the night.
So up I go, jaw tight and backbone
stiff, ready to go crook a million. It’s
the same counter, but a different officer,
“Form Q 3,” he says. “Sure.”
He walks thirty feet to a file, gets the
form and brings it back to me.
You wouldn’t read about it.
Evatt's "Unemployed"
Dr. Evatt’s line of patter in discussing
administration of the national finances
and particularly the pork-barrel he
rolled out for the delectation of the
gullible, recalled nothing so much as the
Bonanza Budget of O. Henry’s celebrated
Buckingham Skinner and partner, “con-
sisting of a rolled-gold wedding and en-
gagement ring, six Egyptian lily-bulbs,
a combination pickle-fork and nail-
clipper and 50 engraved visiting cards—
no two alike —all for the sum of 38
cents.”
Work and “Labor” are of a nomen-
clature which has long since lost any
meaning in this gallery.- The ranting
about imaginary hundreds of thousands
of unemployed—like the desperate
attempt to mislead electors regarding
“Labor’s” planned socialising intentions
—was shocking in a public figure whose
aim is to be entrusted with the supreme
conduct of the nation’s affairs.
Actually the current record of useful
and widespread reproductive employment
in this country has not been bettered at
any time during the past generation.
According to Dr. Evatt’s mounte-
bankery, the only tolerable economic
o Continued on page 7)


conditions are a permanent excess of
jobs over working hands; a forced de-
pression of interest-rates on loan-money
which can only dry up public investment
in Government funds, and a resulting
unlimited issue of Treasury bills for
public works which, in such circum-
stances, can only drain all value what-
soever out of the pound.
It is from that threat under the late
Chifley Government that Australia was
saved in 1949 and 1951 by those very
electors who are now told by Dr. Evatt
that they did not know what was good
for them.
The “pool of unemployment” is Dr.
Evatt’s selected card. Where are these
unemployed? Who are they? If this
Bonanza-Budgeteer could be forced to
parade them, the line-up would be mainly
a Sydney one and would be .dominated
by the “alert men” attendant on book-
makers, ringers-in at dog-races, black-
market operators, unlicensed hawkers and
the like, who, under the “full employ-
ment” racket of the “Labor” Government
days, “took work” as well which allowed
them to loaf and play cards on some
pay-roll. They had as many names as
they took jobs, and Bill Brown on this
or that public work was Jack Jones on
some job at dawdling on the wharves,
and Mick something-else at week-ends
when he was employed at overtime rates
for cash that need not appear in income-
tax returns.
At any Sydney street-corner one may
hear that when this racket died out with
the “Labor” regime at Canberra, these
spivs and loafers over whom Dr. Evatt
weeps, returned to their contact-jobs in
Sydney’s underworld; but their “Labor”
barrackers told them they might just as
well “be in the money” for unemployed
relief, and so they proceeded to register
themselves for it. And got it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Nominations for the Senate close at
noon on Friday, and the draw for posi-
tions on the ballot-paper will take place
the same day. The result of the whole
election may well be determined by the
luck of the draw in Queensland, which,
as Euclid was in the habit of saying, is
absurd,
• •
Before the Doc, began his policy
speech in the Marrickville Town Hall the
chairman asked the audience to refrain
from interjections. Evatt then spoke for
his full hour without a single interjection,
which suggests that he was preaching
almost entirely to the converted. A tip
the Opposition-leader might remember
for future meetings is to have the chair-
man also ask his platform supporters to
refrain from yawning. One Senator in
particular yawned like a cavern at in-
tervals throughout his leader’s speech.
And yawning is so contagious.
• •
With six Senators required for Wes-
tralia, optimists in the A.L.P. are talking
of winning four seats. To do that
“Labor woqld require
57.2 per cent, of the
votes. At the last Senate
election it collected only
43.7 per cent., so a swing
of nearly 7 per cent,
would be needed. That’s
rather more than the
swing at the State
elections two months ago.
Tasmania, the other six-
Senators State, seemed to
offer a better chance
though only a slim one.
In both State and Federal
voting Tassy is very much
a fifty-fifty proposition.
• •
What “Labor” was
fearing might happen in
Tasmania has; Senator
Morrow, denied endorse-
ment by the State execu-
tive, is running against
the selected “Labor”
team. He has gathered
two running mates
from the top end of the
island and they will stand
as the “Tasmanian Labor
Group.” This intrusion
should mean an end to
“Labor” hopes of winning
four seats, and that in
turn will no doubt
strengthen the already-evident deter-
mination of Senator Aylett’s sup-
porters to give him their No. 1 vote in-
stead of No. 4 as desired by the executive.
None of which is calculated to make
“Labor” leaders turn handsprings.
• •
Premier Gair told the Labor Conven-
tion in Queensland; “I am not a betting
man. I wouldn’t know a horse from a
goat and probably a lot of others who go
to races are just as competent as myself
in this respect.” A lot of those who go
to the polls are no more competent,
which has some bearing on why Gair’s
party still rules Queensland.
•• i 1
Sydney “Tribune” finds in the Case of
the Soviet doctors “dramatic proof of
Socialist Justice,” and claims that it
proves the strength of the Soviet Govern-
ment, its unity with the people and its
constant care for their welfare ; also the
superiority of the Socialist system of law
and justice. In giving “the facts,” the
Red rag says that a “preliminary examina-
tion purported to show” that the doctors
were guilty, but before the accused were
brought to trial “the preliminary investi-
gation was itself checked” —with the
result that the charges were found to be
groundless and the doctors were released.
Yet on the evidence of what the pre-
liminary examination purported to show
“Pravda” and its faithful echoes through-
out the world, “Tribune” included, were
prepared to accept the guilt of the doctors
as indisputable.
“Tribune” comment in February made
no mention of any “preliminary examina-
tion.” The Australian Communist mouth-
piece was then talking quite confidently
4 .
about “the murder of Zhdanov.” It
seems that sometimes Moscow lets its
distant worshippers down with a very
decided thud. But they take it like
lambs, and beg for more.
• •
Trying hard to justify his tenure of
the job, the almost-voteless member for
the Capital Territory urged that Can-
berra be officially represented at the
Coronation. Menzies replied that “speak-
ing in terms of Government and civil
service” Canberra would have “ample
representation” already. What’s the
superlative degree of ample?
• •
Australia has made what somebody
called “a stand” on wheat. We will sign
the International Wheat Agreement if
Britain and India also sign. If we do
wp’ll be committed to sell 75 million
bushels inside the export-price range of
13s. 9d. to 18s. 3£d. a bushel, with the
home price somewhere around 16s. and
the “free” price probably 225. 6d. Such
are the benefits’ of “organised market-
ing.”
• •
If the Commonwealth Shipping Line
is such a valuable asset and the Menzies
Government’s reason for wanting to dis-
pose of it is “purely doctrinaire and
destructive,” as Evatt says, how can he
say that Menzies and Fadden have been
"IT STILL LOOKS LIKE A BEAR TO ME. "
hawking it around for months? Valu-
able assets do not as a rule have to be
hawked around. If their value is self-
evident they sell themselves.
An economic survey just published
shows that Britain had a balance-of-pay-
ments surplus last year to the tune of
£291 million and that the fall in the
gold-and-dollar reserves of the sterling
area has been checked. Reserves are now
£l2O million higher than this time last
year. The survey warns that this does
not mean that all financial difficulties
have been solved, but it does mean that
Britain has regained the economic initia-
tive and that international confidence in
sterling has been restored.
• •
One Sydney morning daily said N.S.W.
Transport Department lost £14,600
running special trams and buses to the
Sydney Royal Show over Easter; the
other made it £16,800. Both claimed the
figures were given them by Transport
Minister Martin. The R.A.S. reported
that well oyer a million people visited
the show. Many of them reported
jammed buses and trams. Did Mr.
Martin call for a report on the losses?
He did not. He “congratulated the
officers” who ran the vehicles which lost
the money. If jam-packed transport
can’t show a profit it might be cheaper
to dispense with conductors and allow
the public to travel free.
• •
In the Werriwa campaign a few months
ago Evatt said he would rather lose a
thousand elections than see any unem-
ployment in Australia. This page com-
mented “Wot! No cherry-trees?” Last
Friday, in Brisbane, the Doc. trotted out
the same piece of bombast. This page
can only repeat “Wot! No cherry-
trees?”
• •
There seems every reason for landmen
to support the Government in the Senate
election. Menzies and Fadden can
claim that their administration has
obtained higher overseas prices for meat,
wheat, butter, cheese, canned and dried
fruits, eggs, sugar and cotton. It has
paid feed-wheat subsidies; lifted sales
tax from a long list of farmers’ needs;
allotted dollars to and lifted duty on
imported machinery; instituted a five-
years dairy-stabilisation plan; has
allowed farmers, over five years, to deduct
from their taxable incomes the whole
cost of plant, workers’ homes, fodder
stores, dams and other improvements.
And it lifted Federal land tax, which
“Labor’s” Mr. Calwell states he will re-
impose.
• •
With a too-disarming frankness that
defeats its own purpose “Labor,” through
its leader, is now pleading that socialisa-
tion is a dead issue and that it would
not dream of nationalising any industry
without a referendum. Socialisation can
never be dead while it remains on
“Labor’s” platform. That it is there all
right can be verified by anyone who cares
to glance at a copy of the A.L.P. rule-
book. Socialisation is not merely the
main objective of the party, it is the
only objective. Further, every “Labor”
candidate for the Senate election—as for
every other election —signs a pledge “to
actively support and advocate at all times
the Party’s objective—the Socialisation
of Industry, Production, Distribution and
Exchange.”
If the signing of that pledge means
nothing, as Evatt’s remarks on the “dead
issue” suggests, then how can any elector
place any reliance on anything any
“Labor” candidate promises? If a signed
pledge is worth nothing how much is a
verbal promise worth?
• •
Dr. Evatt’s scandalised cry that the
Menzies Government is taking a higher
percentage of the national income in taxa-
tion even than that “levied in the crisis
of war” is about as specious as anything
ever heard on a platform. It is basically
fallacious since war is a tonic of non-
earning production on a large scale. As
for direct taxation, the income - tax
rates —even without allowing for the
extra relief accorded through the turning
of rebates into concessions—tell the
story. For a man with a wife and two
children from personal exertion:
War-time
Income. Kates. 1953-53 Bate.
£5OO £BO 16 0 £9 11 0
600 118 13 0 30 14 0
1000 ... .. .. 385 4 0 91 10 0
1500 .. j_. .. 538 16 0 338 19 0
5000 3433 8 0 3134 3 0
• •
Less than two years ago “Labor” was
saying, with every evidence of sincerity,
that Ben Chifley was the greatest leader
the party ever had. At the Marrickville
rally Premier Cahill in a eulogy on
Chifley’s successor, said that no man had
ever been better fitted to lead the party.
And Bert looked as if he concurred with
every word of it.
They’re still trying to decide who is
to carry “Labor’s” banner in Dulwich
Hill in place of former Conservation
Minister Weir, now a judge. It’s a ques-
tion of local man versus Cahill’s nominee
Mallam —with the odds on Mallam.
• •
A London message reporting the death
of Dr. Henry Belt says, “He proved that
British children were really mouthing old
political diatribes when they recited
nursery rhymes.” Perhaps this gives us
a clue to what Dr. Evatt is mouthing
about the Senate election, though whether
it is nursery stuff for today or for future
generations only time can decide.
• •
The A.C.T.U. is reported to be plan-
ning a grand new office opposite the old
Trades Hall in Carlton (Melb.). It’s ex-
pected to cost £50,000, therein be a re-
search bureau, a mezzanine floor and all
the trimmings. If union dues jump
shortly unionists will be able to comfort
themselves v/ith a thought of that mezza-
nine floor.
• •
Poultry-breeders want the P.M.G. to
allow postal-delivery of day-old chicks,
as is done in America. Since the 40-hour
week hit the post-office a lot of the chicks
stand a chance of arriving with their pin-
feathers out, if they’re not already laying.
• •
The extraordinary outlook of the
metropolitan Press on politics is best
illustrated in the fact that when an
Adelaide textile factory announced it
would temporarily close down and 365
people would temporarily lose their jobs
the news was blazoned in streamer head-
lines, with the inevitable kick at the Men-
zies Government. At the same time a
Newcastle (N.S.W.) textile concern said
it would employ 850 more people this
year. That item was reported in just
16 lines of ordinary type on an inside
page. Need it be said that the Menzies
Government wasn’t mentioned? Minister
Beale’s reply to the Adelaide concern’s
complaints about service orders didn’t
seem to reach Sydney at all.
• •
With a preliminary fanfare of trumpets
a conference of States and Common-
wealth on soldier-settlement was called
just before Easter. It got nowhere.
Another is to be held “later in the year”
and its views will be “put before the next
Loan Council.” Probably in 1963 the
foregoing will simply be repeated as
showing the progress being made in
soldier settlement.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Whodunit?”: Heard by Tasmanian
radio-listeners: Regarding Cambridge-
Oxford Race —an edited version of this
yacht race will be heard over 7ZL and
TNT at a quarter past eight
❖ ❖ ❖
“NX Mick”: Partial deafness often
made me sorry for myself before the
day I offered to help a blind man across
a busy street. When I spoke to him
during a pause halfway across the road,
he said: “Speak up, please, I’m hard of
hearing.” “That’s a coincidence,” I told
him, “so am I.” Blank eyes turned to-
wards my face and, with mock alarm, he
cracked: “Gosh! I hope you’re not
blind, too.”
♦j* ♦>
“J.T.”: Who has all the fun at an
orchestral concert? Not the players.
“ We're selling that exclusive model for coronation Week ONLY.”
intent on the score; certainly not the
audience, emerging from its apathy only
to express frustration by means of a
cacophonous thumping of flesh on flesh.
The real, pleasure is maestro’s. Drawing
the players beneath his eagle wings,
gracious, pleading, haughty and menac-
ing, bobbing on his toes, rocking, sway-
ing with ecstatic arms outspread, the
master is himself his own best audience.
This impels me to suggest a hall full of
little cubicles, instead of the usual close-
packed chairs; and in each cubicle a
baton. No longer would we have to
steal into the organ gallery for vicarious
pleasures, to watch the conductor fling
aloft a wild forefinger and open his
mouth for that divine manna perceived
by his eyes alone. Our slogan must be
“Gesticulation for Everyman!” Admit-
tedly, there may be some cold spirits who
attend concerts just to listen to the music.
One or two rows of orthodox seats could
be reserved for these somewhere at the
sides of the hall.
“Brick E.”: If they have newspapers
in that Valhalla where honest —if cranky
—bricklayers go. I’ll warrant old
Mumbling Bob is clamping his toothless
gums on the stem of his foul-smelling
pipe and mumbling something that a
patient listener would interpret as “I
always knew it, and I always said it.”
Bob didn’t like anybody much, but his
special aversion was spectators who stood
and watched him work. He refused to
concede that watching other people work
was a natural human trait, that it had
some subtle fascination, but was in no
way a hangover from the days of the
Roman arena, “They’re sadists,” he
used to mumble bitterly, “enjoying other
people’s sufferings.” And now, from
England comes what he would claim as
indisputable evidence: the man charged
with the Netting Hill murders was
arrested on the banks of the Thames —
watching men at work on the barges.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Aestur”: That verse on the people of
Australia (B. 18/3 /’53) should rouse
most ire not in Brisbane, where they
“bash yer and bang yer,” nor in Perth,
which is “hardly worth mentioning,” but
in Hobart, which isn’t mentioned at all.
Still, we’re used to that in Tassie; the
numerous appeals made to the people of
Australia to save or spend or lend or
work or give or die or something for
“your country” are mostly accompanied
by a map which indicates that Tasman’s
voyage in 1642 was made in vain. But
wait; we’re beginning to be known. A
Tasmanian architectural student in Lon-
don wrote to his father recently of the
Olympic Ideal Homes exhibition ; on a
map of the Commonwealth displayed
there Tasmania is shown—out of scale
and upside down.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Percie”; Bardia produced a prac-
tical demonstration of the meaning of
the phrase “fortune of war.” Our bat-
talion had a good position in a Wadi and
our fire-plan catered nicely for the en-
tirely unexpected event of an Italian
counter-attack. The code sign which
would touch off our fireworks in such
case was the spoken phrase “Green
Light,” and not the release of the Verey
light itself. In the pitch darkness the
Italians put up a pyrotechnic display
which was not unusual of them and usually
meant nothing, A feature of this par-
ticular display, however, was the appear-
ance of illuminations of every hue except
green. This absence of the green color
was observed without comment until
eventually an Italian flare of the hitherto
absent shade was seen. Involuntarily a
Digger exclaimed “There’s a green light!”
The accidentally-uttered code signal was
overheard by an alert Bren gunner, who
opened up on his fixed field of fire. All
arms followed suit in copybook imple-
mentation of our defensive fire-plan, and
continued for fifteen minutes, during
which no activity was observed on the
part of the enemy. The cease-fire orders
were then given and an uneventful night
followed. Daylight showed the area in
“T his the foundation-stone of the great Wallam-Wadgee Dam,
and that's the memorial to the man who laid it."
front of our position studded with the
bodies of 180 Italians.
& ❖ ❖
“Lofty”: Dead marines in unexpected
places (B. l/4/’53)? A few years ago,
the boss contracted to demolish a house
which had for many years been the
domicile of a parson noted for his denun-
ciations of strong drink. Why he hadn’t
dumped the evidence I don’t know, but
the array we found would have done
credit to the biggest pub in the town.
The old gent had very liberal ideas on
supply, as the collection sported as many
imported brands as local. Thinking to
do him a turn, we loaded thpm into the
truck to deliver them to a bottle-yard.
We were about to move off when the
reverend one dropped in and with much
asperity demanded that we keep such
things away from his property, or we’d
ruin his reputation.
❖ <*
“Spasebo” Reports of a relaxing of
Russian exclusiveness remind me that
there was always an Iron Curtain in that
country, but in my experience it wasn’t
so armor-plated under the grinding
despotism of the- Little Father as under
the dictatorship of the proles. Crawling
across Siberia in 1914 in a peasant train,
I merrily photographed everything that
took my fancy. At a small station I
was taking a snap of what I thought was
a gang of political prisoners carting
sleepers when a Russian fellow-traveller
touched me on the shoulder. “Are you
a member of the Imperial Camera
Society?” he asked. “Never heard of it,”
I said. “Well,” he said, “unless you are,
you can’t take a photograph in Russia.
Put the camera away in your baggage
and when you get to Moscow hand it
over to your hotel-manager. He’ll give
you a receipt for it, and you’ll get it
back when you leave.” It was returned,
all right, with the film untouched, except
that when I subsequently developed it
I found that, in addition to the pictures
I had taken, there was a snap of a very
pretty girl I had never seen in my life.
♦> ❖ ❖
“North Wharf”: When she berthed at
Fremantle on her latest call the liner
Stratheden tied up with, among the usual
hawsers, two of nylon. They were not
more than one third the bulk of the
hempen ones, though except for their
extreme lightness they had much the same
appearance. The strongest vegetable-
fibre known was used for the harpoon-
line in the days of the hand-thrown
harpoon and the lance. Of the finest
Manila hemp, it was yellow in color and
almost as soft as silk. Fibre-rope is
graded by circumference and the whale-
line, standard, was one inch and a half,
which meant a diameter of just half an
inch. Yet such a line, fast to a 60 or
70 foot whale, possibly held by two
“irons,” would tow for miles across a
probably heaving sea, three 30-foot boats,
each carrying six men. Still, if the old
whale trade had only known of nylon,
how much thinner might those lines have
been spun, and how many hundred more
fathoms might each boat have carried—
with the avoidance of that dread of the
long-gone headsman, when, with the last
fathom of line out and the boat in
danger of being drawn under, he was
obliged to “cut.”
❖ ❖
“Apple Isle”: On a recent stormy night
there was a terrific clap of thunder —old-
timers say the loudest in their memory.
My neighbor has two children, a girl of
four and a boy of ten. The girl came
running into her parents’ bedroom,
whimpering; from the boy’s room there
wasn’t a sound. Had he slept through
it, or was he speechless with fright? They
had Just decided they’d better have a
look when he called out: “I’ve just
worked it out —that clap was eight miles
away.”
$ * '
“Bo”; Anyone in Sydney may enjoy
the thrills and the excitement of the
nocturnal chase without going anywhere
near a trots- or dog-course. All he has
to do is pick a wet night on which there
is a concert at the Town Hall and
arrange to meet someone there. He will
find that his quarry has been forced to
seek shelter among the forest of pillars
under the portico, which will be jammed
tight with a surging crowd. He can then
elect to join the main stream and, if he
is about 6ft. Sin. high, which will give
him a chance to sight his sheltering
friend, and 18 stone, which will enable
him to fight his way out of the mob, he
may with some luck succeed in joining
up. Or he can try to stalk the quarry
by wedging among the swirling side-
eddies, keeping well against the wall to
save being trampled to death. His other
alternative is to stop out in the down-
pour until the seething mass has thinned
off. Hard-headed concertgoers always
make a proviso that if it’s wet ihey’ll meet
at a pre-arranged spot other than where
the possibility of the chase developing
into a blood-sport is ever-present.
HEALTH AT LAST?
“We've made the thing so attractive that
people will come chasing insurance.” —Sir
Earle Page, Federal Minister for Health, on
the Commonwealth, health-insurance scheme.
They’re jostling on the pavements, and
jay-walking down the street
So thickly that the drivers have to knock
them off their feet;
They’re deserting city kitchens, abandon-
ing country ploughs ;
They’ve left, on outback stations, only
bulls to mind the cows %
They’re hobbling out of hospitals with
crutches and pneumonia;
There’s Old Australians side-by-side with
new ones from Estonia ;
Lighthouses, left untended, flicker dimmer
than they ought.
But it really doesn’t matter, since the
ships are all in port;
And whether from the fuselage, or
whether from the gun’le,
They’re pouring through the capitals like
champagne through a funnel.
And they’re dying of starvation, as they
do not want to lose
Their preferential places in the twenty-
mile-long queues.
But B.M.A. observers say, “Good
heavens, what a crush !
What profits health-insurance if one gets
killed in the rush ?
Ah, many a man would be alive, and
more would be more active
If Doctor Page had made his health-
insurance less attractive !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
WATCHMAKER
The watchmaker wears
a glass in his eye
to count the seconds
hurrying by;
and his agile hands
make the sharp steel teeth
that chew up our lives
and spit out death.
jN.S.W.
SHAN BENSON.


“Mullum”: When women were first
admitted to the services they were often
treated with condescension and suspicion,
but they could hit too. In Darwin a
telegraphist was having difficulty with
the operator in Melbourne. His morse
got slower and slower, but still he was
being asked to repeat words. Fed up,
he departed from the strict rules of signal-
ling, and asked, with a sneer that even
morse could not hide; “Are you a
W.A.A.A.F.?” The reply came back;
“Yes. Are you a boong?”
“Metax”: The radio station that put
on the wrong record and began to broad-
cast the death of Winston Churchill, in-
stead of that of Queen Mary,
helps me to understand a theory
proposed to account for dreams
of the future. <The past, pre-
sent and future are taken to be
always with us. We live in the
present because it is the easiest
to get at. Sometimes the un-
likely happens and a dreamer
gets a glimpse of the future. If
radio-stations can keep the
future stacked up in a heap of
records it shouldn’t be hard for
nature, with all her resources, to
make a similar arrangement on
a more comprehensive scale.
$ * ❖
“Muskeen”; Let an old rifle-
man add a little to the rifle-
regiment discussion (B. 1/4/’53).
There are four regular regi-
ments known as rifle regiments.
These are the King’s Royal Rifle
Corps (which is not a corps), the
Rifle Brigade (which is not a
brigade), the Royal Irish Rifles
and the Scottish Rifles or
Cameronians (not to be confused
with the Cameron Highlanders).
The uniform of these regiments
was dark green with black but-
tons and distinctive facings, red
for the K.R.R.C. and black for
the R.B.’s. Rifles are carried at
the trail, when marching in line
or in threes, and at the shoulder, held
vertically by the trigger guard, when in
file. The slope position is also used ;
it is assumed on the command “March
at ease.” I transferred to the Rifle
Brigade in World War I and served with
it in France. During World War II when
I came across them again in the Middle
East, they were still wearing black buttons
and green chevrons and were carrying
their rifles in the traditional manner.
❖ *X* *X*
“Boorcan”: “Hist” (B. 4/3/’53) misses
the point of the “Food” stamps. Apart
from “grade” collectors, there are
throughout the world millions of school-
boys and other small collectors. Thou-
sands of these are in S.E. Asia and behind
the Iron Curtain and their only direct
knowledge of Australia is from our
stamps. And what do we give them?
Apart from the head of the reigning
monarch and an occasional notability, the
designs comprise kangaroos, emus,
platypus, kookaburras, koalas and so on.
There is not a single stamp going into this
cheap trade which shows that Australians
are doing anything with the country. No
one can deny that the design of the food
stamps is deplorable, but they do provide
ocular evidence that we are not keeping
Australia exactly as the abos had it. While
we’re about it, why not the Snowy River
Scheme and some of our great irrigation
works? Other countries show their
achievements on. their stamps.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cahors”: My class of New Aus-
tralians tries very hard, but has a lot of
difficulty in sorting out the exact mean-
ings of “can,” “must” and “to be able.”
During a lesson on the use of these words
I tried to emphasise a point, and said un-
thinkingly, “You have got to” This
floored them completely. I wrote it on
the board, but still it didn’t mean a thing
to them. I suddenly thought of phonetics
and wrote underneath it “you gotter.”
They all recognised that.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Teepee”; The recent Motor Show in
Melbourne reminded me of the “car-park”
at Tobruk in 1941 after Musso’s men had
hot-footed it with an alacrity which
refused to be Slowed down by mechanical
transport. They left behind such a wealth
of vehicles that it was a poor A.I.F, unit
which didn’t boast at least half a dozen
trucks or cars surplus to establishment.
Parking- and traffic-projblems were a real
nightmare till the plan of a central car-
park was introduced. Each parked
vehicle bore a label evidencing that it
had been “Claimed by 2/6 Bn.” or some
other unit. The transport glut lasted as
long as the supply of Italian dieseline.
It was just as well the fuel ran out;
otherwise when we set out for Derna
the convoy would have been 150 miles
long. As it was,' the desert was strewn
with abandoned vehicles of the priciest
kind.
*X* *X* ❖
“X.M.N.”; Nothing in recent years
has changed more than the profile of the
merchant ship. Not so long ago a ship
was judged, even to its safety factor, by
the number of masts and funnels towering
above its boat-deck. The larger White
Star and Cunard liners of the early nine-
“And that one is the Queen of Sheba."
teen-hundreds were prominent with their
four funnels and two masts. On the Aus-
tralian run the Ceramic sported the other
extreme —one funnel and four masts. The
Japs really started the change. In their
eagerness to show they were not merely
copying Western fashion their design was
often altered even when it was obvious
that efficiency was being sacrificed. Now
Jap tonnage is returning more to the
orthodox profile and the Germans are
swinging in the opposite direction. In
the Australian passenger trade striking
changes have taken place. Orion, vintage
1935, started the trimming-down process
when she appeared with only one mast
and one funnel, and now new Orscwa
will have no masts at all.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Skee”: Traditional costume for High-
land Scottish women is not a tartan
“ Showoff!"
dress (B. 25/3/’53). It is an “arisaid”
or belted plaid, white, with the exception
of a few stripes of red, black or blue.
It reaches from the head to the heels,
secured over the breast with a buckle
and caught up round • the waist with a
richly-ornamented leather belt. Until
marriage the girls went with their heads
bare, but if a Highland lassie lost her
character, she was obliged to wear a cap
and never afterwards to appear bare-
headed.
“8.A.K.”: Nothing in married life fluc-
tuates so bewilderingly as a wife’s estima-
tion of her spouse’s intellect. Poring over
a shopping-list—before or after the fact
—she will shoot at him: “What’s 1\ times
2/Hi” or “How many yards are 56
inches?” His answer is never questioned.
Yet in the midst of a reading session the
same woman is likely to look up and
announce something like: “Whatsisname
was there yesterday.” If Hubby fails to
identify Whatsisname and establish his
or her whereabouts on the previous day,
all within a few seconds, the betterhalf
is quite convinced that she married a
moron incapable of keeping up with an
intelligent conversation. My long-haired
mate recently informed me: “They’re
putting street lights on the corner where
the two hotels are.” Floundering, I pro-
tested that there was no corner in our
town that fitted the description. She
was amazed that I could be so dull.
“You knew I went to Parramatta to-
day,” she pointed out. Even then, the
position was not crystal clear —there had
been street lights on that corner for
years. Eventually I discovered what was
taking place—but only by establishing
myself as the slowest fellow on the
uptake that was ever inflicted on a patient
wife: Parramatta Was having its first
set of traffic-lights installed.
*X* *X* *
“Ceg”: Both Sydney and Melbourne
could once boast Bohemian restaurants
where red and white wine was
included in the price of the meal.
Melbourne’s Cafe Francais, where two
bottles were placed on each table, was
one. The bottles were not labelled, often
uncorked, and were re-filled from a bulk
supply of vin rouge and blanc. Cafes in
the Soho district of London used to make
a great feature of the practice and I
remember one night at the d’ltalia in
Old Compton-St. I was seated alone,
at a table for two. Presently a somewhat
forbidding and very senior Army nurse,
plopped into the vacant chair, seized the
menu and ordered minestrone. Before
the soup arrived she tossed off two
glasses of the red and white wine, which
she mixed. When the waiter brought the
soup she promptly seized a bottle in
each hand, poured a liberal shot from
each into the minestrone and then tucked
in.
* ❖ *
“Looby”: New Aussie has drawn
attention to a minor snag to the tourist-
trade. Puffing along to the post-office
stamp-machine, he waved a postcard and
said, “It is so silly, here in Australia.
Shops sell you good postcards, showing
places you are at, but they don’t sell
stamps because they say there is no
profit on them. You don’t even need
an envelope to mail a postcard, but you
do need a stamp. Out of your way you
must go if you want immediate posting.
How different in Europe! Not only is
the stamp supplied, but the card is taken
from you and posted for you.”
*X* *X* *X*
“Lucky”: After completion of aft-
training in Canada we stayed near Boston
(Mass.) while awaiting transport to
Britain. Near by was a training area for
negro rookies, which provided us with
the grandest spectacle of the war. Central
figures in the tableaux were massive and
coal-black top-sergeants, each with a
cigar jutting out of the corner of his
mouth, the while he intoned his orders
in a patter which went something like
this; “Hup! One, two —Hit it. Boy!
On de lam! —Swing dem hips—Fo Uncle
Sam! One, two three, foah —Till yo’se
soah! Step yoh turn —back fo moah!”
and so on in a seemingly endless and
magnificent exhibition of ad libbing.
How much the negro instructors appre-
ciated our overt admiration was shown
on the day when, with full packs, we were
paraded for the two-miles march to
motor transport for the first stage of
our journey to England. Just after six
sergeants had failed to answer their names
on roll call, the seeming defaulters
marched smartly on to the parade-ground,
took up their position on one wing, and
were brought to the salute by one of their
number. The Canadian Winko in charge
of the parade merely goggled when,
behind each file in the line of latecomers
he saw an expressionless negro buck-pri-
vate trundling a wheelbarrow loaded to
gunwales with the gear of the not-quite-
sober sergeant-pilot. Taking the line of
least resistance the chap in charge gave
the order to move off, and, wheelbarrows
and all, we moved. Probably on account
of the very audacity of the move, there
were no repercussions.
AS WORN
“The ‘open-mouthed’ look of last year is
definitely out. The girl who would get her
man will adopt the latest expression, that of
wide-eyed wonderment. It’s a winner.”
Women’s paper.
Now the girl who’d be smart,
Who to nature adds art
(The male of the species to beckon ),
With the set of her tress,
With her lipstick, her dress
Must ceaselessly, prudently reckon.
For in Love’s cut-and-thrust
Fashion’s change is a must —
It applies in all climes, to all races —
And she mustn’t forget,
When she’s setting her net,
Her expression this also embraces.
An idea someone had
That the closed lips look bad; %
So the flapper-press ordered each girlie
When regarding her chap
To keep open her trap
And reveal all her teeth, white and
pearly.
It succeeded in this:
That the open-mouthed Miss,
Instead of appearing bewitching,
Looked a bit of a dill,
Doing fly-catching — still,
Our humor fust needed enriching.
Now another ukase
Has gone forth for a craze:
Girls, you’ll stun him by regist’ring
wonder !
If your lamps are well trimmed
And you don’t keep ’em dimmed
You can’t make an amorous blunder.
Never look at your man
With a dead sort of pan.
For that he will find very wearing.
Be la mode and wide-eyed
And in you he’ll take pride —
But for heaven’s sake don’t make it
staring !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


When it's an
Exide—you start!
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX 2.24
PERSONAL ITEMS
Though Flight-lieutenant L. R. Klaffer
(appointed A.D.C. to the new G.-G.) was
too young for combat experience in War
11, he holds a nicely filled log-book
marked “Korea.” . Included in the tally
are 105 combat missions with the Aus-
tralian Double-Seven Squadron, a field-
commission, the United States D.F.C., the
American Air Medal and a “mention.”
He’s just back from nine months with
the Vampires in Malta. Adelaide’s his
home ’drome.
Earl Daum, managing-director of
General Motors-Holden, has spent 28
years with General Motors travelling ex-
tensively in two directions —horizontally
over most of the earth’s surface and
vertically up through the various strata
of the organisation. Since his first job
in the advertising section in New York
he has been advertising-manager, sales-
promotion-manager in the Near East and
in Egypt, assistant to the g.-m. of over-
seas operations and sales-manager in
PISTONS
South Africa, and director of the technical
centre at New Delhi, where he co-
ordinated all H.Q. contacts between
General Motors, the Indian Government
and the British, Indian and U.S. forces
fighting in the China-Burma-India theatre.
He was next appointed manager of
General Motors’ U.S. Army vehicle re-
conditioning plant, Calcutta, and then
assistant to the m.d. at Bombay. He
returned to New York in 1946, then
became m.d. of G.M., Nordiska, Sweden,
before coming to Australia in 1948 and
joining up with G.M.-H.
Due to sail tomorrow (Thursday) on
her last voyage to America, valiant old
Aorangi, skippered by Captain William
Whitefield, himself a veteran. Appren-
ticed to sail in 1908, Whitefield has been
with the Union Steam Ship Co. for the
past 40 years, 26 of them in command.
Aorangi did a sterling job in War 11.
After evacuating civilians from Singapore
she shifted to Atlantic-ferrying, and was
mother-ship, in the Solent, for 150 tugs
of the Normandy armada, serviced a total
of 1200 vessels, and, it’s claimed, received
the first wounded returned from the
invasion beaches. Whitefield was her
skipper then, on her most important job.
It is appropriate that he should have her
on her last.
“Fitz”: The ’sixties of last century were
remarkably fruitful in the production of Aus-
tralian writers. Born in that decade, listing
only the better-known names; John Phillip
Bourke, Charles Haddota Chambers, “Smiler”
Hales and Walter Jeffery (1860); “Dryblower”
Murphy and Kate Baker (1861); Francis
Adams, Thomas W. Heney, Barbara Baynten
and P. E. Quinn (1862); Arthur Jose, George
Essex Evans and Inez K. Hyland (1863);
Sydney Jephcott, Jessie Mackay, Jphn Bernard
O’Hara, “Banjo” Paterson and C. H. Souter
(1864); Arthur Bayldon, Edward Dyson, William
Gay, Mary Gilmore, Dowell O’Reilly, D. M.
Ross, Francis Kenna, F. S, Williamson and
A. G. Stephens (1865); Barcroft Boake, Bernard
O’Dowd, Gilbert Murray and J. Sylvester Ryan
(“Narranghi Boori”) (1866); Grace Jennings
Carmichael, Henry Lawson, Roderic Quinn,
Guy Boothby (1867); Robert Crawford, H. E.
Boote, Mary Fullerton, Julian Mitchell, William
Moore, Randolph Bedford and A. H. Davis
(“Steele Rudd”) (1868); E. J. Brady, Wifi
Ogilyie, David McKee Wright, Frank Morton,
Marie E. J. Pitt, R. H. Croll, C. A. Jeffries and
S. H. Prior (1869). Almost all were Bulletin
identities at some time or another. Those who
have survived the years are Mary Gilmore,
Kate Baker, Gilbert Murray, O’Dowd, Bayldon
and Ogilvie.
“F.S.”; Frank Lloyd Wright, the famed
American architect who was Burley
Griffin’s teacher, has done it again,
having, at 84, designed a museum and
art gallery in Fifth Avenue, New York.
It is likely to cause as big a controversy
as some of his earlier architectural
fancies, inasmuch as it has no floors.
You go up in a lift to the top of the
building and stroll comfortably down a
winding ramp, like a spiral-staircase,
looking at the exhibits. Wright is not a
great architect —he is a great construc-
tionist, which is another matter. He
designed the world-known anti-earth-
quake hotel in Tokyo, which successfully
withstood the great shake of 1923, but
I haven’t seen any building of his
which could be said to have much artistic
quality. His pupil Burley Griffin designed
Canberra, and also designed, laid out
and dictated the architectural conditions
of the Sydney harborside suburb of
Castlecrag. A lot of Australian architects
are Wright disciples.
Squadron-leader P. R. Raw, D.F.C.,
Polish Cross of Valor, is the first man
to be posted to the R.A.A.F.’s new unit
—No. 1 Long Range Flight—a unit
specially formed to plan the R.A.A.F.’s
participation in the U.K.-N.Z. Air Race.
S./L. Raw is 30, was educated at Mel-
bourne Boys’ High School, and joined
the R.A.A.F. in April, 1941. He was
one of the few R.A.A.F. pilots to train
in Rhodesia, where he stayed to instruct
in 1942-43. He converted to Liberators
in Palestine in 1944, and then flew with
No. 178 Squadron, R.A.F., in Italy,
winning the Distinguished Flying Cross
for “exceptional skill and devotion to
duty.” He is a specialist navigator.
Not much of moment has gone on
in the north of the northern State over
the past 30 years that Robert Johnstone
Douglas hasn’t known about —he having,
for that time, sat and sifted on the
Supreme Court Bench. This week, after
46 years of legal work in the north, he
doffs his wig. Son of a onetime Queens-
land Premier, brother of a Queensland
judge, R.J. put up such a good case as
a barrister in the Carpentaria Downs
murder of 1909 that thenceforward he
was the man in criminal defence work.
In the middle of War I, then acting-judge,
he drew up the mining awards under the
Industrial Peace Act with such perspi-
cacity that they remain virtually un-
changed today.
Another Australian singer making good
in London is Halinka de Tarczynska,
whose violinist father used to be the fife
and soul of J.C.W.’s opera orchestra. Her
chance came when an Italian prima-donna
fell ill and she had overnight to take
the leading role in “Cavalleria Rusticana,”
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne. One of
the finds in the first National Theatre
opera season at the Princess, she later
went to London. The “Times” and other
papers spoke highly of her voice at her
first London recital at the Wigmore Hall;
she is now understudying Alda Lord for
the Glyndebourne and Edinburgh
festivals.
Passed the 88th milestone, in Perth,
Nathaniel (“Nat”) Harper, former mine-
manager and politician, who claims that
he was the first to suggest that water
could be pumped from the coastal area
near Perth to the Kalgoorlie goldfields.
He moved to Westralia from Tasmania in
1892 to become manager of the Fraser
goldmine at Southern Cross. His claim
was investigated by a committee appointed
by Parliament three years ago, and a
fu’rther investigation is being made by the
Westralian Royal Historical Society.
Harper’s story is that he made the sug-
gestion at a banquet at Kanowna, when,
as senior mine-manager on the goldfields,
he was responding to a toast. In Parlia-
ment years ago, he represented Beverley
and afterwards Pingelly. He is the
grandfather of W. Grayden, M.H.R. for
Swan, and of Dave Grayden, who recently
lost the Nedlands seat in the Westralian
Assembly.
Among other exalted jobs, Sir Charles
Lowe can claim to be a Supreme Court
Justice, Chancellor of the University of
Melbourne, to have been a Commissioner
inquiring into Jap. raids on Darwin,
a Royal Commissioner inquiring into the
deaths of Ministers in an air crash, and
the Royal Commissioner who inquired
closely into Communism in Vic-
toria. Now he can call himself the
first Administrator of the Government in
Victoria for 29 years. The sickness of
Sir Dallas Brooks and the absence with
the Coronation contingent of Lieutenant-
Governor Herring, C.J., have caused the
revival of the office. It was last held by
Sir Leo Cussen in a similar emergency.
A farming revolutionary:
Hector Geddes, M.Ag.Sc., Senior Lecturer in
Animal Husbandry at the Vet. School, Sydney
University, is a man of contrasts. Blue eyes a
vivid contrast under shaggy eyebrows, build
slight, face brown, rugged and mobile, a soft
New Zealand voice . and clad, when The
Bulletin caught him between lectures, in the
classic garb of country stock-inspectors and
field-officers —tie, sportscoat, and other items
neat but serviceable. Something of the practical
directness of the man-on-the-land in his manner
and a good deal, too, of the university lecturer.
And he’s been a newspaperman —on Mel-
bourne “Weekly Times.”
He is also a lecturer in the Faculty of
Agriculture and is in charge of the McGarvie
Smith Animal Husbandry ■ Farm at Badgery
Creek, near Liverpool, At the farm experiments
are going on which, if successful, may soberly
be called revolutionary. Some aspects: water-
catchment and spray irrigation; pasture improve-
ment, use of natural depressions as dam-sites
and channels, strip-grazing. Implications could
be the turning of some current sheep-country
into pastures with a carrying capacity equal to
the best dairying land. Nearer home, the
PASTURE
County of Cumberland, which now (taking into
consideration imports of feed) can supply about
one twelfth of Sydney’s milk needs, would be
able to lift this fraction to a half. Land used
is of poor quality, with an average rainfall
over past 17 years of 28in.: for the 13 years
before that, 23in. Present carrying capacity
is one cow and a fifth to the acre. On the
costs side, despite initial outlay, a good profit.
Multiplied through southern areas of Australia,
the potential in cattle production is enormous.
An interesting point Geddes makes is that the
Americans are 20 years behind us in pasture-
improvement.
If a thorough grounding in newspaper
work and all-round experience in things
military are the chief requisites for the
job of Army public-relations officer, then
Owen O’Brien, p.-r. chief at Eastern
Command, Sydney, is the right man in
the right place. He did his first report-
ing for the Goulburn “Post” and Bunda-
berg “Mail” and graduated on to capital-
city dailies—Melbourne “Argus,” Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail” and Sydney “Tele-
graph,” Leaving the “Courier-Mail”
PUBLICITY
when war broke out, he joined Ist Anti-
Tank Regiment as a gunner, went with
it to England, gained a commission,
transferred to 2/31 Battalion and served
with the 7th Divvy in Egypt and Syria,
rising to the rank of major, in 19 months.
Back in Australia, he was in Darwin a
while with 19 Battalion, and then switched
to amphibious warfare. Attached first
to the U.S. 7th Amphibious Group, he
was later loaned, with three other A.I.F.
officers, to the 4th U.S. Division, with
whom he took part in the landings at
Hollandia and Leyte. O’Brien’s last job
in the war (under Aussie command again)
was wit hthe Ist Military Landing Group,
which put the 7th Diviison ashore in
Borneo. Demobbed, he went back into
journalism in Brisbane and Sydney, but
recently put on the uniform again in the
p.-r. job, which enables him to practice
both his professions simultaneously.
“M.S.”: Sir Thomas Beecham has
provided accompanist Gerald Moore with
the best of the stories with which Moore
has been enlivening his solo concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall. He might add
to his collection the occasion when Sir
Thomas sank critic Neville Cardus in an
interview over the air sponsored by the
A.B.C. “I believe, Sir Thomas, that you
object very strongly to latecomers at your
concerts,” said Cardus, “No,” said Sir
Thomas, “I don’t mind that very much,
but I do object to some people arriving
early.” Putting his head into the lion’s
mouth, Cardus said: “What people do
you refer to? Not the critics?” “Well,
yes, I do refer to the critics,” replied Sir
Thomas.’ Cardus, putting his head a bit
further in: “I suppose you would prefer
some people not to come at all.” “Well,
yes, I would,” retorted Beecham.
Into the Silence:
At West Midland Junction (W.A.), at 86,
Frederick Combley, oldtimer of the Murchison
district, in which he had lived for over 67
years. Landing in Westralia from England m
1886, he lived in one of the first houses built in
Meckering.
At 88, in Melbourne, Martin Hannah, former
M.L.A. for Collingwood and an hon. Minister
in Victoria’s first Labor Government, which
lasted for 13 days in 1913. A forestry enthusiast,
during the Centenary celebrations he was found
guilty and fined £9 for building a bark hut
and boiling a billy in Little Collins-street; his
object was to draw attention to Australian
timbers.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 77, Rev. Ernest
Herrington, whom old Diggers might remember,
firstly as a padre on Gallipoli, and later as
senior chaplain of the Anzac Division. A
Newcastle (N.S.W.) native, educated at Sydney,
Harvard and Edinburgh Universities, before
War I he lectured in philosophy at Sydney
University, then shifted to Brisbane, pastor ot
St. Andrew’s and member of the University
Senate. Before retiring in 1945 he had been
master of Dunedin’s Knox College.


V /%(&M 'ORIT(SM |
f
THE WINNER


ABORIGINALITIES
“Shamuseen”: Binghi in practising
white-man speech has always had trouble
with the labials. With maddening con-
sistency he will substitute “f” for “p”
and vice-versa whenever a word starts
with either of these characters. So, to
him, a “fan” is always a “pan” and a
“pan” a “fan.” Once when we were
entertaining a visiting divine at afternoon-
tea on our Torres Straits island,
my wife, requiring a fork to deal out the
cake, mouthed the request so that it could
be seen by a scared binghi housegirl who
was watching the doings from the kitchen.
Seilu, being adept at lip-reading, acted
promptly and plonked right in the middle
of the afternoon-tea appurtenances the
loin of pork which was scheduled for
appearance at the dinner session some
hours ahead.
* * * *
“Brick E”: Uhlike any other wild
creature I know, a possum shows a
marked preference for man-made struc-
tures as a domicile. I once found a little
ringtail asleep on a purlin in a roof the
very day after the tiles had been put
on. The silver-grey which took up
residence on one of the steel principals
that span our current job was almost as
prompt in moving in. Unfortunately for
him there are thoughtless coots who
can’t leave a native creature unmolested.
Frightened by an idly-tossed chip of
wood, Silver leapt from his possie to a
steel girder, fumbled it
in the dazzling daylight,
sprang to another,
slipped, scratched fran-
tically to get a grip on
the metal and to the
horror of even the chip-
tosser, fell into space. Sixty feet down
was an iron grill. For the first 10ft, the
possum struggled madly in air, then
instinct seemed to take over —head, feet
and tail tucked in to make a tightly-
rolled ball. We saw the ball of fur crash
on to the grill, roll with the impetus and
fall off the edge to the ground another
10ft. down. Like a dribbled football it
rolled two or three yards, then suddenly
the ball unrolled and a possum was going
flat-out for the scrub. Two days later
Silver was back in his possie on the prin-
cipal—and by common consent it’s a
sanctuary.
* ♦ * *
“Gulliver”: The wave of English
migration which broke upon the shores of
Wesltalia in the 1920’s washed quite a
few strange specimens up to the nor’-
west —among them Ted, the apple-
cheeked son of a well-to-do farmer. He
was tweeded and gaitered; he had two
beautiful shotguns in a case; and his
Sundays he spent happily shooting things
—but in the best sportsmanlike manner,
sir! Not a galah, a crow or cockatoo
fell to his gun except when on the wing,
to the amazement of the rude, untutored
Westralians. This quaint foible, how-
ever, was quite unknown to Johnno when
he undertook to lead Ted to the target
he had long yearned after —a turkey
Johnno had spotted half a mile or so
away. With infinite stealth the pair
melted into the scrub. Half an hour
later we heard two shots. Ten minutes
after that they were back, without the
turkey, Ted bewildered and Johnno in
a blazing rage. Ted had not only
missed; led to within 40 yards, he’d
stood up and thrown a stick at it to make
it fly before he fired —“and when I goes
crook, he says ‘Dammit, old boy, you
must give the bird a chance! ’ ” But,
alas for sportsmanship! Sordid greed
was Ted’s downfall. Six months later he
became a professional kangaroo-shooter,
and armed with a .303 he bowled ’em
over standing, lying, sitting and thinking,
or just sitting. He was probably expelled
from his club when the news got home —
but, anyway, the porter would never have
admitted the whiskered, blood-stained
tough in a tom shirt he’d become by that
time —unless he’d called for the garbage.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Charlie Blair, Ver-
min Control Officer for W.A.’s Agricul-
ture Protection Board, knows more about
inland W.A. than most men.
His territory extends from the
Bight to the Kimberleys coast,
and takes in the Nullarbor and
the Warburton Ranges. He has
more than a dozen doggers
under his command and he tries
to visit each one twice a year—
which means a lot of travelling.
Just back from the Nullarbor,
he reports tfl&t his dogger there
has stumbled across some sea-
shells about 120 miles north of
Rawlinna, which would make
the find about 260 miles inland.
The shells were in a gully that
had recently been washed out
by heavy rain, and they in-
cluded a north-west type of
oyster, a pair of clam-shells as
big as dinner-plates, and some
mushroom coral. They’re fos-
silised but in good condition.
Their chief interest, Charlie
claims, is in the fact that they’re
all typical of northern, not
southern, waters, indicating that
when there was an inland sea in
Australia it came in from the
north.
♦ ♦ *
“8.A.K.”: The most popular
name along the N.SbW. coast
must surely be Boat Harbor. I
know four places bearing that
monicker —at Lismore, Tug-
gerah, Cronulla and Gerringong.
The last-named has almost forfeited its
right to bear the title, since the only boat
that uses the picturesque but reef-skirted
cove these days is a solitary fishing-boat;
and it never harbors there, but is pulled
up into a boatshed. But an old painting
shows a trestle-like jetty running out to
sea with a small steamer berthed along-
side. Very old hands recall when much
of the district’s requisites came in on
the small ships that called at the jetty
to load locally-cut timber. One storm
wrecked the jetty in a night, sweeping
the whole structure out to sea, with
scarcely a piece of flotsam as a memento.
Today there remains only an end of
rusted cable-chain, concreted into the
rock, to support the inlet’s claim as a
harbor. Personally, I never stand on the
cliffs overlooking the glorious seascape
without thinking that the cruel sea some-
times has an aesthetic taste.
* * * *
“Macquarie”; Not only man is fishing
on Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.) on this
sunny afternoon: at least four different
varieties of birds are similarly occupied—
and each is using a completely diverse
method from the others. Two slate-blue
herons walk the shallows with slow, stilted
gait like hypnotised undertakers. They
seem incapable of quick movement —until
a long, thin beak stabs into the water
with the speed of a flashing rapier. Over-
head a gull flies ; it banks into the breeze,
rises, then suddenly drops as though shot.
Fully 50ft. it falls, to strike the water
“ Here's a laugh, folks —double exposure."
with a loud “plop,” the down-thrust beak r
alone # breaking the impact of the drop.
For a second the bird is completely
submerged, then it rises, takes off and
wheels in apparent satisfaction. A black
shag is swimming near a mud-flat that
used to be an island. Abruptly it plunges
downwards and is gone. Minutes seem
to pass before an object which at first
glance looks like a snake’s head rises
out of the water 20yds, away. But it is
the pelican that entrances me. As big
as a swan, and even more graceful, he
cruises along with neck leaned back till
it touches his body, beak poised like a
spear in a wopmera. In a flash his pace
changes to top speed—and such speed!
Swiftly the thick beak drives forward
with a pickaxe action. He swallows
visibly as he resumes his cruising. On the
c'her side of the lake swims another
pelican, but neither goes near enough to
"Hi, Dad! The bull's got outa th' paddick!"
spoil the other’s fishing. Meanwhile, at
the Entrance, half-a-mile away, man has
no such scruples. Lined up, shoulder to
shoulder, fishermen thwart one another
at every cast.
* ♦ * *
“Sack”: The cat that made a practice
of diving off a boat and swimming
ashore (B. 25/3/’53) may have had a dash
of Siamese somewhere in his ancestry.
In her Cats of Many Lands Gertrude
Gleeson claims that Siamese cats have
no aversion at all to water ; a strain bred
at Cleish Castle, Kinross-shire, Scotland,
the authoress declares, enjoy rain and
revel in snow; in fact, behave more like
canines than felines. Incidentally, the
first time I saw a Siamese cat I wondered
which one of us was cockeyed. Later
I was informed that cross-eyes are com-
mon to the species. But the strangest-
looking fummy I’ve ever seen was sitting
in a dingy doorway as I walked out to
the Royal Show. I’d seen plenty of pure-
white cats before, but one of the eyes
that glared at me was bright-blue, the
other malevolent optic a yellowish-
brown_
♦ * * ♦
“Warrabulla”: Never, until the city
flapper-Press discovered the outback, did
I realise what a lot of unsung heroes we
must have been in the days when floods
and fires just came and went and never
got themselves in the papers. Nowadays
there are “mercy planes” dropping food,
tense “flashes” by radio and dramatic
photos of heroic gents covered in mud
or smoke and ashes, according to season.
Time was when groups of people resigned
themselves to a diet of damper-and-jam
till the water went down, or, belting at
fires with their tongues hanging out, just
wondered where the hell Joe had got to
with the water-cart; I’ve heard of pub-
licans bringing out kegs on lorries to fire-
fighters, but never had the luck to attend
so well-organised a blaze. There were
deaths, stock-losses and hardships, but to
the bush-people those were part of the
hard life they chose to live. As for floods,
much hardship is due to the folly of
people who rely on quick car-trips to
town for supplies and on refrigerators,
and don’t carry proper stocks of flour,
tea, “tinned-dog” and so on, as we did
when town was a couple of days away
and we bought six-months’ rations at a
time. Remember once, in charge of a
mustering team, being cut off for a
couple of weeks by floods; an uncom-
fortable journey to a phone only brought
a blistering tirade from the boss for being
such a damned fool as to get caught. If
there’d been an aircraft in those days
he’d have used it to drop rocks on me.
So we just sat in mud and drank muddy
tea and ate muddy damper and an unfor-
tunate sheep that wandered along, and
eventually waded through to cop another
tongue-banging.
* * * •
“Edx”; If “Billy T’s” travels with his
box of campfire chips ever take
him to Westralia he’ll be able to stock
up with some super-kindling, and some
good burning wood to go with it (B.
18/3/’53). The sou’-west blackboy has
a trunk the fibrous core of which can’t
be called wood; nor is the outer layer
bark, but is, between the ground and the
spiny crown, the dead ends of former
leaves. These dead ends, easily detach-
able, are heavily resinous and highly
inflammable. Almost like slivers of solid
turps. That is why blackboy, burning so
readily, is always black with a protective
layer of charcoal on the trunk. A
Government handbook on W.A. timber
resources contains no mention of mulga,
yet over the life of the eastern goldfields
its value as a fuel (together with salmon-
gum around Kalgoorlie, and by itself
further north) must by now have run into
millions of pounds. Mulga, though non-
resinous, burns fairly well even when
green, and has possibly the highest
calorific value of all Australian timbers.
It is dense and strong but structurally
useless on account of its lack of size, and
though I’ve seen a 6ft. stick of 3ft. girth
fired into a boiler, such size is not com-
mon. Despite its smallness, mulga has
possibilities as a cabinet and furniture
timber not yet really exploited. Most
people make their acquaintance with
mulga through small objects of the
“souvenir” type such as ashtrays, ink-
stands, etc., in which a superb horror
effect has been achieved by a liberal
inclusion of the yellow sapwood, and
sometimes even the bark, with the true-
wood, and a thick slathering of clear
varnish over the lot. With more thought-
ful work, as in a few well-designed
privately-made small tables I’ve seen, its
warm brown, simple graining can be
brought up to a handsome finish.
STILL WATER
In satin sheath it lies beneath
dull velvet skies
and gives back tone for monotone.
Cold-blooded as
a watching snake, in its opaque
green depths there is
no sign; unstirred, it stays the word
and bides its time.
A heron’s flight is graph of white
on greens and greys.
Full clouds at rest on mountains’ crest
slide down, like bees
with pollen weighed; and every shade
of clouds and lulls,
of bird and sky, is captured by
its silken coils.
On shrinking ear, now faint, now clear,
insistent through
the quiet, falls the word. It calls
“I wait for you.”
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


“Mingari”: Age in a horse is purely
relative. The outback stockhorse, worked
hard under heavy loads and often in
drought conditions—scratching for feed
at night, when' he should be resting, and
spelled in semi-arid saltbush country-
ages quickly. In the lush Riverina
country a mount of mine at the age of
22 was still good for a day’s camp-
drafting ; an ex-polo pony, three-parts
Arab, was at 20 quicker off the mark
and nippier on a turn than anything else
I’ve ever ridden; I had a 24-year-old
brown gelding who detested cows and
spent much energy chasing them and
biting their rumps. On the same station
as these there was a 27-year-old mare, also
part-Arab, who could still trot a respect-
able distance with a light sulky and a
couple of adults, and wasn’t above throw-
ing her cap over the windmills for any
handsome stallion. Also on the same
station was a 15-year-old trotter who
could still cover 30 miles a day. But
all these lived on good pastures, and
were fed during dry spells and rugged
in winter. Outback, they’d have died
years earlier.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Narumee”: Here’s final absolution
of the Great Australian Accent for the
responsibility of “yowe” for ewe (B.
25/3/’53). Several hundreds of years
before Robbie Burns was calling the
“Yowes” to the “Knowes,” someone
was scribbling the original ode to
summer: “Summer is icumen in,” and
the second verse of the poem reads:
Yowe bleateth after lambe
And after calfe cow.
And isn’t “Yow-uh,” which, for the sake
of the scansion, it must be pronounced,
a much truer version of the Aussie’s
ewe? And “Caar-fer” very like the
Aussie calf? Maybe we’ll all be talking
Anglo-Saxon soon, and good riddance
to the myth of the G.A.A.
“An Chaidh”: The correct version is
“Ca’ the yowes to the knowes” (B.
25/3 /,’53). Could pass the “Ca’” being
written “Co’ ” if “H.A.L” ’s translation
had been correct. Had he read the song
carefully he would have noted the fact
that “Ca’ ” does not mean “call” in this
place. (Call is certainly one meaning.)
The line “Then a-faulding let us gang”
would give the clue that “Ca’ the yowes”
meant to drive them —“Ca’ ” also means
to drive. “Knowes” is Scots for knolls
“ Thanks , mate—saves me lightin' one."
—more a rise or a ridge in Aus-
tralian. Furthermore, Burns did not
write it. He wrote the song of which the
quotation is the first line of the chorus
written by Tibbie Pagan (1740-1821). Not
only did we get “yowe” from Scotland,
but also the most characteristic of
our vowel sounds. In Scotland we are
always referred to as “Austrihans.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were grape-snatch-
ing in Mildura and stayed at a boarding-
house with about a dozen others. The
woman who ran it was a born match-
maker and pretty soon she discovered
Mat’s attitude towards females and mat-
rimony. We’d be playing cards and yarn-
ing in the “parlor” at night, with her sit-
ting there sewing or counting her spoons
or something, and she’d have a go at
Mat. He took it in the humorous spirit
in which it was given, but he settled her
the night she said earnestly, “But haven’t
you ever seriously thought about getting
married?” Mat put down his hand,
turned and looked her straight in the eye.
“Every time I think about it,” he said,
“it’s dead serious thinking. That’s why
I won’t have it on.”
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Ben was telling us about
an old dog named Jack he once knew.
“Me an’ him was on our own at an
outstation called Big Gulthul. Had
about two thousand wethers in about a
thousand square miles o’ mallee, hop-
bush an’ sand, but it was summer and
the jummies never further’n about a
mile from the tank. That old Jack knew
sheep-nursin’ inside out. He used t’
watch that tank an’ close round it, an’ if
there was a sheep missin’ he’d scout the
scrub till he come across it —or what
was left of it. Well, we’re there about
a month an’ the ration-cart come out
an’ I’m told the boss has gorn down t’
Melbourne for a fortnight. So I reckon
it’s as good a time as any, an’ next day
I teff old Jack just to mind the sheep till
I get back. He wags his rudder an’
gives me a grin an’ I get on me horse
an’ head f’r Euston an’ have a week on
the beer. End of the week I head back
again an’ there’s old Jack, good as ever,
an’ the jummies camped round the tank.
Yair, I reckon” “Hold on,” cut in
the jackeroo, “how the hell did the dog
get on for tucker while you were gone?”
Ben turned and slowly surveyed the jacky
from head to foot and back again. “Any
bloke,” he said, “what wasn’t new t’ this
district’d know I’m all right when I’m
tellin’ a yam, but you get me inter an
argument, boy, an’ I’m likely t’ do me
nut.” The jacky eyed Ben and decided
he had urgent business at the post-office.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The peculiar intona-
tion of present-day Boigu Islanders of
Torres Straits (B. 25/3/’53) certainly
creates an odd impression when heard
for the first time. It seems that every-
one speaks in a hoarse whisper, which
lends to the most commonplace conver-
sation a conspiratorial note. I’ve often
wondered if the intonation is the result of
a fear that the spirits who use their island
as a staging-camp might overhear ordinary
conversation. Though today’s natives
are enthusiastic Christians who should
have no fear of the spirits, under stress
they’ll plump every time for the “debbil”
they know (i.e., the “spirits”) in prefer-
ence to the one they’ve only heard
about. During a bad epidemic of
malaria only a decade or so back I found
both on Boigu and its neighboring island
of Saibaia loudly-professing Bible
Christians, including lay-readers and one
ordained native clerk-m-Holy-Orders,
scarred from head to foot as a result
of their having sliced themselves to let
out the “debbils” who were making them
sick. The treatment was that prescribed
by the local “purri-purri” man, himself
a professing believer in the day-time but
an under-cover practitioner at night. His
prescription was followed to the eschew-
ing of quinine and preventive atebrin
which were on hand if the sufferer
wanted them.
“T.C.R.”: Tell “Gulliver” (B. l/4/’53)
the john dory has scales, which are small
and smooth. It is its close relative, the
mirror dory (which has only a very vague
impression of St. Peter’s thumb on its
side) that is naked. The notion that
scaleless fish are poisonous, uncleafi, or
just plain nasty, and therefore unfit to
eat is nonsense. It apparently has a
racial or religious basis. I know a Jew
who will not eat a scaleless fish; when
I told him the john dory is scaled he
almost wept, for he had caught dozens
of them and had cast them aside, think-
ing they were scaleless. Another I know
will not eat freshwater eels for the same
reason. Yet eels do have scales. A
few years ago when the fishermen of the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) were plagued
with them I had some skins tanned, think-
ing the pests might be commercialised.
They would have made an excellent
leather but for the scales irregularly
scattered over the surface in pockets.
* * * *
“Elkeedra”: When Norman Tindale,
the ethnologist, was doing the field work
which earned him a Carnegie Scholarship
he went walkabout for six months with
the Pitjandjara tribe of aborigines, whose
tribal country lies along the S.A.-W.A.
border jn Central Australia. At the
time the Pitjandjaras were still in the
Stone Age; the only item of civilised
gear in their possession was one old jam-
tin, used as a water-carrier. When they
reached an isolated waterhole in the
desert country south of the Mann Ranges
they found the flat rocks around it
covered with a layer of kurrajong seed,
which the natives scraped up, ground into
flour and turned into dampers. Tindale
discovered that in the waterless country
farther south there were groves of desert
kurrajongs. Every morning at first light
the crows would fly down to the trees,
eat the contents of the ripe pods and fly
back to the waterhole. After drinking
they would regurgitate the seeds, now
minus the surrounding pulp, in the same
way that an owl ejects the bones, fur,
etc. of small animals which it has eaten.
As a result, the Pitjandjaras were sure
of a good supply of tucker when they
reached this particular waterhole on their
annual walkabout. After seeing the film
which Tindale made during the trip, I
decided that the tale of old Elijah being
fed .u the desert by the ravens wasn’t in
the least improbable.
* * ♦ *
“Bogaduck”: Humiliations with a gun
(B. 11/3/’53)? Two of mine took some
living down. As a lad at an outback
station I went ’roo-shooting. Finding a
good possie at the edge of some scrub
I settled down to wait for the game to
come out to feed at dusk. Presently a
large black-and-tan dog hotted into my
view. I waited for the dog’s owner to
come around the bend in the track, but
nobody appeared. When the dog was
some 30ft. away I called to him. The
ears shot up, he gave me one look, then
bolted. A roar went up when I men-
tioned this on returning to the station —
there was a £25 reward out for that par-
ticular dingo! A week later, driving to
the siding, we spotted a mob of emus.
Saying a bit of emu-liver would go well
with the last of our bacon, my boss
instructed me how to attract them and
sent me off. I duly crawled as close as
I could, then lay under cover and waved
the stick with a colored neckerchief tied
to its end. Drumming as they came, the
big birds moved towards me with their
eyes fixed on my lure. Suddenly there
was a boom about a foot from my ear,
and I turned to see a yard of neck poked
over a bush and two eyes like black
peppermints looking out of a whiskery
head. My yell of fright sent the old
cock-bird, which had come up behind me
from where he had been sitting on some
eggs, bolting as if the devil was after
him. My wild shots kicked up the dirt
2yds. behind him. I tried to make up for
it by bringing back eight emu-eggs,
which make a good omelette if cooked
with onions, but they all had chicks in
them.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Baloos”: The shining starling of the
tropics nests in hollows, of which there
were never enough to go round until
the war in the Pacific. Then the housing
shortage ended, for every strafing attack
by fighter-planes or splinters from bombs
and shells made plenty of holes in the
trunks of the trees and palms. The shin-
ing starlings seized on them. I looked up
from my possie one morning to see no
fewer than 11 bird-heads poking out of
the holes in the trunk of a single coconut-
palm. A memory stirred in my mind;
as a kid I’d regd a comic, “The Jester.”
One strip in it portrayed the Mulberry
Flatites, who lived in a ridiculously tall
and narrow building bearing the name
“Mulberry Flats.” You never saw the
bodies of the characters ; only their heads
poking out of the windows all the way
up to the artist who lived in the garret
on the top floor. Thereafter that coconut-
palm became known in the unit as “Mul-
berry Flats.”
* * * ♦
The Lady Nelson
M. H. Ellis, in one of his historical
sketches, was certainly right in saying
“the sprightly little Lady Nelson.”
She was probably the most remarkable
ship ever to come to Australia. She per-
formed the most remarkable voyage ; in
addition she was the first ship to open
Bass Strait from the western end.
Her memory should be worth a gala-
day to all those who get their joy out of
dipping a gun’le under, then bringing the
craft back to an even keel by virtue of
the “centreboard.” The Lady Nelson
was the third vessel to sport a centreboard,
or “sliding-keel,” as it was called back
in the year 1800, when, on January 13,
she set out from Headman’s Dock on the
Thames, to drop anchor in Port Jackson
about the middle of the following
December.
The “sliding-keel” was the invention
of Captain Schank, R.N., while on service
in the American Colonies. In 1774 he
built, in a Boston shipyard, a 30-footer
with a single sliding-keel, to the order of
Lord Percy, later the Duke of Northum-
berland, and it proved a success.
The 1790’s saw Deptford shipyards
(Eng.) busy on a vessel of 60 tons, fitted
with two sliding-keels. This was the
Lady Nelson, the command was given to
Lieut. James Grant, R.N., and, to make
the test of sliding-keels thorough, the
ocean voyage to New South Wales was
ordered, Wits along the Thames-side
thought the start from Deadman’s Dock
singularly appropriate.
The voyage took the full nine months
for which the Lady Nelson was pro-
visioned, three months being lost in
Simon’s Bay at the Cape replacing one of
the keefs, which, since neither rolling-mills
nor steel-plate had then come into being,
were of oak. One, fracturing along the
line of a bolt-hole, had broken off in mid-
Atlantic during rough weather.
Anyway, the tight little ship made it;
to be welcomed by Governor King.
Names along the north-side of Bass
Strait as far as Westernport were given by
Lieut. Grant; the most pleasant, Island
Lady Julia Percy (wife of the Lord Percy
to whom Grant owed his appointment).
BILLY SEE.
SHEPHERD’S HUT
Red earth, dry tree, etched crow on sky’s raw
blaze,
Mud hut yawning in the yellow haze,
IJog and old man looking west for rain,
Drawing the last blood from the creek’s thin
vem
Burst from the weak heart of the pallid hill ... *
Now folded jays on rotted window-sill
And sparrows stencilled on eroded wall
Cast sacrilegious droppings over all;
But still a dog and man, neckcloth of red,
Bob color-notes along the creek’s dry bed,
And distant sheep through mirage waters wade
To drown in comfort in the noonday shade.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
mm?:
“Produce Food!” The words were confronting
me in new Australian stamps that came on letters in
my mail.
No more compelling message, I thought, could
be carried to the people of this country. Commemora-
tion of the past is good. Recognition of some great
national event is edifying. But here in two words it
wrapped the great message for the future —the
speeding-up production of beef, butter, wheat and
other food to sustain life in the world and make
Australia strong.
As I saw these stamps I pondered on the force in
human relations that has gone into making the great
postal system we know today.
The Persians in their empire, the Macedonians,
others of old civilisations, all had their couriers. Man
always had the urge to communication. The Greeks
and the Romans devised their own systems for the
delivery of despatches.
In England in the time of the First Elizabeth there
was an official Master of Posts.
One sheet of paper a letter; two sheets, two
letters; and every sheet taxed accordingly on delivery.
That was the order in England when Rowland Hill
published his famous pamphlet on Penny Postage in
1836.
. And from that, in less than a century and a
quarter, has grown the system of universal postage.
From it has flowered a new art in stamp-making, an
opportunity for the expression of national pride and
aspirations in the most striking stamp designs, a new
interest for man in philately.
All of us influence people by our lives, our work
and our beliefs. But could Rowland Hill have
imagined the effect the prepaid-postal system would
have in the world, not only for the service it would
render, but for the variety and appeal of stamps?
Reduce it to a simple example. Here the Federal
Government at Canberra is looking to Australians to
produce more food. It appeals urgently for their
co-operation. So it takes the unusual step of striking
a new stamp issue in order that the message may go
where all men write, and be carried into home, office
and factory.
My own attitude on food is clear. I want to see
its production in this couqfry vastly raised. This
affects all of us —in town, in country —since the pro-
duction of food means the creation of wealth in which
all will share.
You see what I’m driving at? I want to see on the
face of Australia what is now on the face of the stamp,
—/V.
B-14
iuCCftAA-
wm
PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTINE
FOR THAT NEWLY BARBEREI LOOK
mzmmm
m
«
a
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down” look. Palmolive
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For That Successful
Well-groomed Look
PB4/J2I
Business. Rollery. etc.
THE GOAL AHEAD
In initial efforts to “put value
back into the pound” or, at any
rate, halt the runaway loss of
value from the pound, it
was necessary for the Menzies-
Fadden Government to adopt a
policy of increased taxes, restric-
tion of credit and restriction of
imports. Each of these policies
has been modified, the medicine
having worked to some effect
within 12 months of the first
tentative dose. But restora-
tion of real economic health
has only just begun. The
industrial community still holds
its breath every time a new
basic-wage announcement is im-
minent, and has felt greatly
relieved when a rise of only a
shilling or so has been the out-
come, compared with a total lift
of £2 11s. a week between Sep-
tember, 1950, and September,
1951, with an increase of £1 18s.
over the next 12 months. Over
the past six months the increase
has been ss.
In achieving a higher rate of
production per week from each
wage-earner some real progress
has been made. At the same
time a little unemployment
resulted. This is not necessarily
the consequence of financial
restriction. Quite often it has
been the result of overproduction
in the particular industry con-
cerned. Woollen textiles, for
example. After several years of
under supply, in 1951 the market
suddenly became oversupplied,
and unemployment in the textile
trade followed. Likewise in the
case of some importing busi-
nesses. Demand for numerous
imported lines was already wan-
ing when restrictions were im-
posed. A controlled retreat from
this position was far more desir-
able than an undisciplined eco-
nomic rout at a later stage. And,
whatever hardships some indus-
tries have suffered since the last
quarter of 1951, and however
badly some speculators in com-
modities, property and shares
may have burned their fingers,
there has been very little real
unemployment in Australia.
With the last quarterly basic-
wage adjustment a matter of
“as-you-were” in capital cities,
with coal - production up
4,000,000 tons a year since
1950, and with steel out-
put now at capacity of the big
B.H.P. plants, we are on the
right track. But there is evi
dence that we still have a gooc
distance to go before «our
material, manpower and credit
resources can be employed to
the best advantage. A most
urgent necessity is to get costs
down and at the same time lift
man-hour output further.
But the time has probably
come when Mr. Menzies would
be wise to point out to the
nation the prospects that lie
ahead of two or three years’
economic discipline and indus-
trial sobering-up. Once the
nation is doing a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay
—and that may mean a 44-hour
week —there are prospects of
really extraordinary prosperity
ahead of the Commonwealth,
What Mr. Menzies needs to
tell the public now, with
emphasis, is that once a satis-
factory and smooth rate of
production is achieved there
will be no need to maintain
financial inhibitions. Every
industry in Australia today
can improve its output per
man employed. In some indus-
tries twice the output could be
achieved without hurting any-
one. Once something like a
fair thing is in sight it will be
sound financial policy to extend
credit for the building of
essential capital works that will
pay for themselves or for which
the public is prepared to pay
ultimately in taxation. The
thing which so nearly brought
disaster to the Australian
economy 18 months ago was the
soaring costs of doing work —
the waste of time on the job, the
waste of materials, the waste of
money. At a time when restor-
ing our productivity and trans-
port systems was a matter of the
greatest urgency in order to
maintain our industrial stability
there was, particularly in the
State of N.S.W., a frivolous dissi-
pation of money and resources.
Capital expenditure was not
helping production to flow more
easily; too many projects were
started and never finished, with
the result that they became a
burden and a drain on our re-
sources, including manpower.
With some industries now
finding it difficult to sell their
production it may seem odd to
prescribe greater production as
the cure for our present prob-
lem. But greater output, overall,
is the answer. Given enough
coal,, steel, bricks, cement,
chemicals, etc., at a stable or
reduced price, there is almost
endless work waiting to be
carried out in Australia. Tens
of thousands of homes need
building, for renting and for
family-ownership. Roads need
mending and extending. All
sorts of facilities for home-
ownership and for transport need
attention. The cities have been
crumbling, structurally, for the
past 15 years. Country towns
have been stagnating. Farms
and factories have in many cases
been slipping back because of
the shortage of some things and
the high cost of others.
Working as a rational and
willing community we will have
little difficulty in finding finance,
either from our own resources
or from abroad, for anything we
undertake that it is within our
physical and industrial power to
complete. Thrifty, industrious
people have few economic prob-
lems that don’t virtually solve
themselves. And what Aus-
tralians must learn is that at the
end of the economic trail which
the Menzies Government is fol-
lowing one thing is certain:
there will be unlimited oppor-
tunities of profitable employ-
ment. Economic restriction and
regulation are only needed so
long as production is inadequate
and costly.
Westralia’s Oil Hopes
“Petro”: At a meeting of
directors of the West Australian
“It is required that you fill in all these forms first."
Petroleum Co. in Sydney on
April 7 Mr. C. M. Cunningham
expressed an opinion favor-
able to oil prospects in the
Exmouth district of W.A. In
company with Mr. J. M, Kirby
he had just inspected the pros-
pecting work carried out by the
W.A.P. staff in 1952 and early
1953. Among other things, he said
that the final choice of the first
drilling location would be made
shortly, that the £1,250,000
already spent in preliminary ex-
ploration, field work and pur-
chase of drilling equipment was
thoroughly justified, that geo-
logical conditions in Westralia
were strikingly similar to those
which had yielded oilfields else-
where in the world, and that this
supported his optimistic view-
point.
As might be expected, the
report of two such experienced
geologists does not exhibit un-
trammelled enthusiasm so
characteristic of the amateur
petroleum “expert,” and so
common in connection with the
search for oil in Australia —but
it does amplify the guarded
opinions already expressed by
the field party of professional
oil-men who worked in this
area a year ago (B. 30/4/’52).
The importance of the fact
that the geological conditions in
W.A. are similar to those occurr-
ing in proved oilfields elsewhere
should not be overstressed. Still,
it is encouraging to note that
this point has been emphasised
in the light of knowledge that
geophysical investigations have
indicated that a more complex
structure exists at depth than
was suspected when the first
overoptimistic appraisals of the
Exmouth structure were made,
It remains for the drill to prove
the presence or absence of reser-
voir rocks capable of corn-
mercial production,
The W.A.P. permit covers
325,000 square miles, and the
shares in that co. are held 80 p.c.
by Caltex interests and 20 p.c.
by Ampol interests, and the drill
now in the area is estimated to
be capable of reaching a depth
of 15,000 ft. The region is prob-
ably the last part of the Aus-
tralian mainland for which any
bright hopes of the existence of
sizeable deposits of petroleum
are justifiable, and every good
Australian will wish the venture
all possible success.


mtHUji
d mtk -
MwJU...
c
mas*
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
established >6sB^
SPECIAL HOSPIT
TOLLEYS
"*UOM
i tom
»MC|*
"OJUt,.
brandy
/I.S.W, DISTRIBUTORS! TOOThI & CO LIMITED
Do you profit
from experience?
Always ready to help you, your local A.N.Z.
Branch Manager is a responsible bank officer
whose many years of training and personal
experience are supported by the widespread
organisation and experience of the entire Bank.
Whatever your financial plans or problems are,
you can be sure that they will not be new tp
an experienced banker. Thus to have a regular
review of your financial affairs with your
Bank Manager is a very sound practice.
Many customers make use of this A.N.Z. Bank
service, which is freely available to you,
whether your resources are large or small.
A-N-Z
i** * i
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia ltd.
(Established! 835) (Established 1837)
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, and in London. Agents throughout the world.
54 - 12 """
.
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
Everything ! ! I when it’s
Akubra —try one to-day.
■
It’s the finest quality fur
felt hat made in Australia.
■
Unsurpassed for wear and
obtainable in fashionable
shapes and colours,
Akubra Hats represent the
best Hat Value in the
World to-day.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 1.82
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The Government has unwit-
tingly got itself into very rough
water over the Judges Re-
muneration Bill. Second
thoughts, provoked by righteous
indignation on the part of the
Opposition, the Liberals and a
not inconsiderable number of its
own back-benchers, have induced
a postponement of the second
reading. This delay is bound to
aggravate the uneasiness of the
bill’s passage, for the opposers’
determination will certainly be
enhanced by a spate of con-
stituehts’ letters.
Briefly, the position is this: A
judge’s remuneration was fixed
at £5OOO a year in 1831 and has
never been increased since. Not
only has the real value of the £
suffered a mighty decline over
120 years but the counter effect
of income- and sur-tax has
proved even steeper. And‘added
to this is the natural reluctance
of leading counsel to sacrifice
their huge emoluments for the
privilege of sitting on the Bench.
The Government’s attempted
solution is both practical and
ingenious. Judges enjoy a
special and rightful privilege.
They are independent of the
Crown and of the executive Gov-
ernment. Even the source of
their income is unique, for their
salaries are charged against the
Consolidated Fund, Good, says
the Cabinet; extend their
privilege and let them all, puisne
and otherwise, have an increase
of £lOOO free of tea.
After that, the deluge. Yes,
the judges should be better paid.
Yes, there are less than a
hundred of them. Yes, no body
of men is better entitled to a
modest privilege. But . , .
It’s a very big “but,” too. If
“share” be taken in the sense of
paying out rather than gathering
in, then a fair deal for judges
conflicts with fair shares for all.
And the Welfare State, so busy
snatching back with one hand
what it indulgently bestows with
the other, is turned upside down.
Is it proper to put the judges
outside the law they have to
administer? To double their
salaries in order to give them
an extra £1000? To raise the
Lord Chancellor’s salary from
£lO,OOO to £41,000 to fulfil the
same purpose?
Public opinion, except for a
sympathetic minority, loudly
cries “No.” Indeed, the very
strength of the judges’ case only
serves to turn the spotlight upon
the absurdities of penal taxation
under the Welfare State. But
that is not the whole story.
Businessmen and others who live
by their own efforts have not for-
gotten the seeming propensity of
past legislators to provide for
themselves before they turned to
the job of governing others.
The post-war Socialist Govern-
ment, for instance, that sought
to pay M.P.’s salaries free of
tax; the £4OOO tax-free allow-
ance voted to the Prime
Minister; and the largesse, not
infrequently of political deriva-
tion, that was' handed out to the
boards of nationalised industries.
To the overburdened tax-
payer, the issue is one of prin-
ciple rather than of merit and
he will certainly react strongly to
■’it.
The Customer Doesn’t Count
The Acton Society Trust—an
independent research organisa-
tion in the Seebohm Rowntree
tradition —has just concluded a
four-year study of the nation-
alised industries. Its proceedings
are quiet and, perhaps, too
objective and unsensational to
hit the headlines, but the twelfth
and last of its papers (on Public
Relations) has certainly caused
a mild flutter in the pigeon-
holes and a speeding-up of the
traffic between the “In” and
“Out” baskets.
This particular job of
research falls very squarely
within the trust’s true function,
which is always to relate its
probings to the service given to
the individual. It is far from
convinced that “the customer’s
always right” is a maxim that is
taken to heart by the nationalised
industries. “In general, board
members seem confident that
they know what the public
wants. There have been few
attempts' to make any special
study of the consumer, and, on
the whole, the boards seem con-
cerned only with the material
difficulties of giving the con-
sumer what they think he
wants.”
In plainer language, the boards
are keener to talk about them-
selves than to prove good and
sympathetic listeners. They
prefer to tell the public what it
should like, not to give it what
it wants.
Nor does the trust seem to be
impressed by the so-called con-
sumer councils, which are
intended to protect the customer.
They have not been conspicu-
ously successful, are prone to
half-heartedness and amateurish-
ness and, in both constitution
and function, are “nobody’s
baby.”
Nationalisation has “some
aspirations (that) have been more
fully realised than others ...”
Those have fared best who have
been most powerfully repre-
sented : namely, management
and labor. Not the consumer
who, poor fellow, often finds
himself odd-man-out.
The trust appears to be much
impressed by the 8.8.G.’s public
relations, with its audience-
research and so on, and feels that
similar methods should be
extended to the nationalised
industries. But a satisfactory
solution to the problem would
seem, in its view, to depend more
upon the right attitude of mind
than upon ad hoc measures.
That is to say, the staffs should
feel, in their hearts, that their
prime object is to serve the con-
sumer. The trust’s conclusion is
that “the centre of interest in
the industries’ relations with the
public needs shifting away from
the top.” In other words, there
is an urgent need to break down
the public’s indifference and
impotent resignation to the
nationalised industries, which it
has come to regard as flaccid but
imperious giants.
Jingo, Jazz and Jitters
“The Glorious Days” (Palace
Theatre) is Coronation-minded
show-business writ large. “Give
the people patriotism, sentiment,
color, romance, pathos, music
and laughter” is its message.
“They want all these and they’ll
love ’em. So slap ’em on thick.”
For the purpose of this enter-
taining if sometimes embarrass-
ing pageant, English history is
divided into four epochs: (1)
The flying-bomb, (2) the Nell
Gwyn, (3) the Queen Victoria,
and (4) the Shaftesbury-
avenue. Thus :
1. Anna Neagle as an
actress - turned-ambulance-
driver in a Chelsea pub is
torn between three men,
respectively R.A.F., ex-
R.N.V.R. and German
refugee seeking combat.
Overcome by blast, she
“dreams” the past,
2. —Anna Neagle in'revue as
Nell Gwyn to the R.A.F.’s
. Charles 11. She makes an
engaging trollop, red-
haired, adenoidal, puckish,
and determined above all
else to found the Chelsea
Hospital.
3. —Anna Neagle as three
Victorias, quasi - Hous-
man: the gushing but
purposeful young wife (to
the refugee), the gracious
Queen at the Court Ball,
and the frail old lady at
an investiture.
4. —Anna Neagle as her stage
mother, a musical-comedy
star, during and after the
Kaiser’s war. Besides
scenes of courtship and,
later, estrangement from
her husband, a future
Hollywood idol, she sings
'“K-K - K - Katey” and
polishes off dance
routines as diverse as a
spiky tango of 1913, jazz
of the ’twenties, and an
adagio waltz-routine of
the middle ’thirties.
By any standards, her per-
formance is an amazing one.
But, unfortunately, the sub-plot
which, in the manner of “Caval-
cade,” links together the several
remarkably well-staged spec-
tacles is shallow and trite. Both
mother and daughter are over-
charged sometimes to the point
of jitters. The Age of Anxiety
was not the most glorious of our
days and strikes a jarring note
here. And if in the end her true
love, the Navy, wins her hand it
is but a dubious victory.
goners are about equally
divided between the redoubtable
Anna and a large cast of
astonishing versatility. Because
of the many changes of costume*
each component counterpoises
the other. Certainly, no support-
ing company was ever so pro-
lific of talent, for the singing,
dancing, speciality numbers and
solo turns are all top o’ the bill.
Aesthetically, this expert, slick
but mawkishly inadequate show
is as thin as its material, making
no worthwhile contribution
either to the theatre or to the
coming festivities. Only as
vaudeville, with a dash of revue,
does it merit a high rating.


r--5
UK
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Heffer; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklef.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
' Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, 5969,434
The WILD CAT COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept. Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 7,208,804 8,822,276 626,481 V
Written off fixed assets, £12,270 • 2,743,727
To staff fund, £4,050
1946.. 7,886,078 4,051,405 839,673 ‘
Written off fixed assets, £96,654 ■ 2,698,346
Exchange adjustment, £ 200,000
1947.. 8,533,867 4,042,303 962,34f1 o K n K nns
Written off fittings, £24,218 1 a,DO,U
1948.. 9,300,665 4,448,507 1,065,303 ‘
Written off assets, £40,000 .. • 3,646,865
Exchange adjustment, £100,000..
1949.. 10,211,276 4,549,727 1,131,214 V
Written off assets, £23,104 .. .. 017
Exchange adjustment, £10,914 .. f a, ‘
To contingencies reserve, £750,000
1950.. 11,012,057 4,753,158 1,249,217’
Written off assets, £17,292 .. ■ 4,981,999
Exchange adjustment, £10,391 ..
1951.. 12,297,074 4,929,399 1,553,532’
Written off assets, £25,345 .. \ 5,763,371
Exchange adjustment, £25,427/. .J
1952.. 13,599,448 5,412,564 1,691,119 1
Written off assets, £155,000 .. [ 5 6 gg
Exchange adjustment, £24,042.. ( ‘ ’
To contingencies res., £650,000 J
* Excludes income tax and rates.
With an income of £13,599,000-odd and
assets totalling over £94,676,000 in the
books, and worth more, the National is
second in stature among Australia’s big
five mutual life offices. And since
current trends place fresh emphasis upon
the need for saving as a factor in the
country’s continued development, social
and economic, it is difficult to over-
emphasise the importance of life assur-
ance as a means to these ends.
Policies issued by the cos. are designed
to meet a multiplicity of future needs of
the assured and his dependents, and are
sold primarily on the fairness of the
contract, including the prospect of a
future benefit commensurate with what
is given up meantime to obtain it.
Among other things, this calls for
financial soundness and bonus-paying
capacity. Soundness depends primarily
upon the strength of the reserves, dis-
closed and hidden. In this respect the
co.’s assurance fund substantially exceeds
its actuarial liabilities under policies, and
there is a large provision for contin-
gencies as well. The lot is invested in
sound revenue-producing assets, conser-
vatively valued in the books, which means
that there is a tidy inner reserve as well.
And the latest accounts disclose healthy
progress, with satisfactory margins in all
those matters upon which bonus-paying
capacity depends.
A record amount of new business
(£41,826,836, up £1,191,753) was put on
the books last term. It was all ordinary
and group contracts —no industrial busi-
ness is done —which were written in
every country of the British Common-
wealth except Canada. Premiums (old
and new) turned in £10,464,461 (up
£1,075,178) and iavestments £3,134,987
(up £227,196), making total income
£13,599,448 (up £1,302,374). Claims were
well within expectation, a tight hold was
kept upon controllable outgoings,
£155,000 was written off the book-value
of assets, and £650,000 was tossed into
the contingencies reserve and £24,042 into
the exchange adjustment account. The
£5,666,723 that remained lifted the
assurance fund to £88,491,918, which
had the support and assistance of
£3,991,455 of contingency and other re-
serves, which also belong to policyholders,
there being no shareholders. The assur-
ance fund alone exceeded liabilities under
policies, calculated on a stringent 2\ p.c.
basis, by £2,119,107.
Including £258,622 brought forward,
total divisible surplus for the three years
to September 30, 1952, was £5,968,091,
of which £5,038,984 was distributed as
bonuses among policyholders, £650,000
was reserved for contingencies and the
remaining £279,107 was carried forward;
r - 1 Triennial Valuation ,
30/9/’46. 30/9/’49. 30/9/’52.
Brought forward.. £500,000 £258,622
Total surplus .. £3,608,830 4,468,713 5.709,469
Appropriat ion—
Bonuses .. 2,870,176 3,860,091 5,038,984
Oonting. reserve .. 138,654 750,000 650,000
Tax reserve .. 50,000 100,000
Staff fund .. 50,000
Carried forward . . 500,000 258,622 279,107
Bonuses have been maintained on an even
keel at very satisfactory rates for the
last half-dozen years; an achievement
with which both policyholders and the
management have good reason to feel
satisfied. And at the moment prospects
of a small lift in bonus-rates are bright,
thanks to the trend of both interest and
expense rates.
Excluding single premiums, the ratio
of total iexes. to total net income was
12.35 p.c., or 0.59 p.c. less than for the
preceding term, despite the large amount
of new business written and sharp rise in
wage-rates, which now show signs of
settling on a firmer basis.
The gross effective rate of interest
earned on the assurance fund was Is. 4d.
better at £4 2s. Bd. p.c.; but heavier
bleeding by Government and Semi-Gov-
ernment bodies for rates and taxes
(£343,999, up £57,059) reduced the net
yield to £3 14s. 6d. p.c., and the net gain
to a modest sd. Still, the margin be-
tween the net rate earned and the rate
assumed in the valuation is wider than is
usually considered adequate for main-
tenance of existing reversionary bonus-
rates.
Outstanding feature of the investment
portfolio is the attention given to mort-
gages, which is very helpful so far as
new business is concerned and augurs
well for interest earnings:
1951 ~ r~ 1952
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 2,735,038 3.1 2,918,637 8,1
Govt, securities* 45,412,916 51.3 44,722,488 47.3
Debentures . . 2,372,800 2.7 2,686,620 2.8
Mortgages . . 23,520,175 26.6 29,394,854 31.1
Deposits building
society . . 2,074,000 2.3 1,613,000 1.7
Loans on policies 4,403,685 5.0 4,858,434 5.1
Shares other cos. 4,550,822 5.1 4,953,449 5.2
Other assets .. 3,476,757 3.9 3,528,740 3.7
Total assets .. 88,582,143 100.0 94,676,222 100.0
Liabilitiest .. 2,388,700 2.192,849
Net assets . . 86,193,443 92,483,373
* Includes local-gove.-body loans,
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
Last term there was net shrinkage of
£690,428 in the holding of Government
securities, while £5,874,679 was added
to mortgages, £313,820 to debentures,
£402,627 to shareholdings and £454,799
to loans on policies. At Sept. 30 last
Government securities accounted for
47.3 p.c. of total assets, and mortgages
plus loans to building societies for
32.8 p.c. At the close of accounts in
1948 corresponding ratios were 67.8 p.c.
and 15.5 p.c. respectively.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, —Dividends—
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
Dec., Profit- 6 p.c. 6 p.c. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1945.. 41,676 15,000 4500 9,872 9,231
1946.. 52,582 15,000 4500 18,978 23,335
1947.. 54,165 15,000 4500 17,869 40,131
1948.. 50,418 15,000 4500 16,802 54,247
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1949.. 60,516 25,000 7500 15,384 66,880
12 p.c. 12 p.c.
1950. . 98,110 30,000 9000 15,050 110,940
Unexplained addition, £5215 .. .. 116,155
1951.. 103,674 30,000 9,000 18,651 162,178
Unexplained addition, £2547 ~ 164,725
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952.. 54,642 25.000 7,500 18,565 168,302
A very satisfactory showing consider-
ing the difficulties, of which more will
be said presently. There is £325,000 of
capital to feed in 250,000 £l6 p.c. cumu-
lative participating prefs.—they advance
with the ords. in any distribution beyond
6 p.c.—and 600,000 2s. 6d. ords. —the
other 17s. 6d. a share (£525,000) was
written off in 1932 to cover losses due
to drought, rising costs and anaemic mar-
kets ; a reminder of the risks inherent in
the business.
The co.’s big leaseholds, aggregating
some 9200 square miles, are in the far-
west of Queensland and over the border
in the Territory; and there are three fat-
tening coastal freeholds, totalling 45,000-
odd acres, in the Gladstone, Nanango
and Kilcoy districts. Last term the co.’s
Westland Holding (Longreach district)
was thrown open to selection, surplus
plant fetched £l3BB, £5718 was
received for improvements, and there is a
further £4803 to come under the same
heading. The year’s income also benefited
by a windfall of £15,556 from J.O. on
account of wool bought by the U.K.
during the war.
All the co.’s north-western runs ex-
perienced dry to drought conditions last
year, Lake Nash (3365 square miles), in
the Territory, being the principal sufferer.
Cattle and sheep written-off on account
of mortality totalled 19,124 8164
respectively, and 11,318 fewer calves were
branded (8918) and 2605 fewer lambs
were marked (1372). The effects upon
the co.’s livestock population—6B,l92
cattle, 14,500 sheep and 1478 horses at
Dec. 31 last—and therefore upon turnoff
for the market, will be felt over the next
three to four years. The need for a
railway from Dajarra (Q.) to Newcastle
Waters (N.T.) is so real and so apparent,
that mention of it simply amounts to
stressing the obvious, the chairman says.
Yet the stentorian politician continues to
cry out for increased meat and other
food production.
After allowing £18,565 (down £B6) for
depreciation—included with profits and
then shown as written off in the intro-
ductory table —and making an unspecified
provision for taxation and other con-
tingencies, the slip in the year’s net earn-
ings was £47,946. The £36,077 of profit
was 11.1 p.c, on capital (pref. and ord.
combined) compared with 26.1, 25.5, 13.9,
10.3 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1947. The
div. was lowered from 12 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
making average distribution over the last
four years 11 p.c., as against an average
of 6 p.c. for the seven preceding years.
For the 22 years before that the ords.
were shown an empty basket, and they
lost seven-eighth’s of their capital, as
already mentioned.
Financially the co. is in better trim
than ever before to withstand a jolt, as
the large holding of cash, etc., shows:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Creditors, etc.* 164,615 310,158 376,548 347,217
Final div. . . 32,500 39,000 39,000 32,500
Freeholds .27,903 27,903 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds . . 100,787 95,277 90,997 113,305
Plant . . 48,804 57,816 64,222 63,259
Livestock .. 168,322 178,188 188,884 157,036
Wool . . 2,620 2,340
Stores . . 10,063 10,438 34,138 31,897
Debtors . . 15,792 29,586 38,376 9,316
Shareholdin g s 42,254
Cash, etc. .. 217,324 388,269 458,206 405,709
* Includes provision for contingencies and taxation.
The year’s net addition of £22,308 to
leaseholds reflects expenditure on addi-
tional watering facilities, fencing, etc., on
the big western runs. The mortality
experience shows up in a contraction of
£31,848 in the conservative figure at
which livestock appears.
Prospects of a better showing at next
balance are bright at the moment. Good
rains have fallen on the properties since
the close of accounts; under the new 15-
year meat agreement with the U.K. prices
for the current season’s ox-beef and cow-
beef have been lifted by 20 p.c. and 10
p.c. respectively, the average gain being
approximately 11s. 4d. per 1001 b. of beef ;
and costs promise to gobble a bit less of
the gain.
The 2s. 6d. ords at ss, (ss. 6d. a
year ago) return 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c,
div. basis. On the same basis, the prefs.
at 265. 9d. yield 7.5 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is prefs. 395. sd. and
ords. Bs. Id.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
■ Dividends Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref.* Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 28.370 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 27,900 470 115,809
1946.. 29,360 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 1,460 117,269
1947.. 40,622 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 12,722 129,991
1948.. 9 „ 9 „ 27,900 17,662 147,653
Share premiums, £17,000 .. 164,663
Insurance _res. appears, £lO,OOO .. 174,653
1949.. 51.416 T"p.c. 9 p.c. 31,500 19,916 194,569
1950.110,074 10 „ 12* „ 55,332 54,742 249.311
Unexplained addition, £28,000 .. 277,311
Proceeds revalued assets, £200,000 .. 477,311
1951.. 10 p.c.lOJp.c. 49,333 40,154 517,465
1952.. 74.123 10 „10 „ 48,334 25,789 543,253
* Pref. div. subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
The contraction of £15,364 in last term’s
net earnings of this big and efficient
manufacturer of hosiery, lingerie and
men’s wear was due entirely to the
writing-down of stocks of cotton-yarns
and cotton-products by £24,070 to bring
them into line with market values at the
close of accounts. No cut in the book-
value of any other item in the inventory
was necessary.
All told, the result of the year’s opera-
tions was a heartening achievement. Over
the 12-month period production in-
creased, sales notched a new record, and
stocks were substantially reduced; all
this in the face of growing competition
from both overseas and local sources, a
small increase in unemployment and mild
degree of consumer resistance, especially
during the first half of the year. The
position steadied during the second half
following restriction of imports, growth
of export income, improvement in em-
ployment, and in the liquidity of traders
generally. Still, the pressure of mount-
ing wage-rates against selling-prices which
were mostly controlled narrowed profit-
margins and robbed the co. of the gains
normally to be expected from bigger
sales.
There was a slip of £23,017 in gross
profit (£408,733), due to the writing-down
already referred to. Including £34,869
(down £17,812) for depreciation and
something for taxation, etc., exes.
(£338,114) were reduced by £6870.
Taking into the reckoning an unexplained
addition of £3504 to the insurance reserve
(£23,725), the net result was £74,123.
That was enough to pay the prefs. their
full contract rate of 10 p.c. (£8333) and
show a satisfactory 16.4 p.c. on the
£400,000 of ords. capital as against 20.3,
20.8, 16.7, 17.1 and 14.8 p.c. back to
1947. The div. was eased from 10* p.c.
to 10 p.c., and the £25,789 that remained
lifted reserves £59,920 higher than paid
capital. So the two combined need turn
in only 4.7 p.c. to cover an all-round
10 p.c, distribution.
There was little change in the outside
debt; —
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Ord. capital. . £335,614 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Pref. capital. . 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 26,500 26,500 200,000 195,000
Overdraft . . 133,870 169,704 265,042 269,189
Creditors . . 68,287 35,265 55,456 51,787
Tax provision 45,922 90,000 148,059 108,417
Final div. . . 15,750 38,666 20,166 24,167
Freeholds .. 124,000 127,500 371,701 425,882
Plant . . 141,771 154,839 160,277 174,752
Shares subsid. 17,210 17,210 17,210 17,210
Stocks . . 488,774 589,191 912,248 781,234
Debtors . . 131,528 201,354 227,458 275,426
Cash, etc. .. 562 601 626 642
A net reduction of £131,014 in stocks
(in at cost or below) enabled the co. to
carry an extra £47,968 of book debts and
add £68,656 to the book-value of fixed
assets, mainly on account of the new
factory at Newcastle, now about com-
plete.
Although the background is very fluid,
the immediate outlook favors a satis-
factory showing at next balance. The
selective easing of imports ought to mean
cheaper finished goods for Australian
consumers and cheaper raw materials for
manufacturers. And this, together with
arrest of the upward spiral in wage rates,
temporarily at any rate, should tend to
restrain the price-cost structure. How-
ever, aggregate plant capacity is in excess
of local demand in the hosiery trade,
which means that competition is likely to
remain keen and profit-margins narrow.
That puts the emphasis on quality, style
and finish as the dominating factors in


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Another
record year for
THE
NATIONAL
MUTUAL
ASSURANCE FUND
INCREASED. At 30th September,
1952, the Assurance Fund was £88,491,9! 8
—an increase of £5,666,723 in one year
NEW BUSINESS
INCREASED. 63,106 new policies
were issued, assuring £41,826,836 and
providing annuities of £283,678 per
annum.
INTEREST RATE
INCREASED. Average rate of
interest earned on Assurance
Fund was £4/2/8 per
cent. after deduction
of Rates and Taxes, net
rate was £3/14/6 as
compared with £3/14/1
for the previous year.
BONUSES—
wiII be on the same
liberal scale as last year
The Association is owned by
its policyholders, who alone
share the profits.
<CZJZ3
RESULTS
FOR 83 YEARS
1869-1952
Amount paid to policy-
holders:
£112.396.050
Assurances in force:
£301.804.248
Assurance Fund at 30/9/52:
£88,491.918
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
HEAD OFFICE: 395 COLLINS STREET, MELBOI/RFfB
NEW SOUTH WALES;
350 Georg®* St., Sydney
QUEENSLAND:
290 Queen St. 3 Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:.
King William St., Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:^
St. George's Terrace, Pert
TASMANIA:
Macquarie St., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: _
Chief Office, Customhouse.OuiJl
Wellinaton
crippling RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
9
TRADE MARK I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
% During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from yoar chemist.
»b
AT'* 1 '
h eo»
TIC“
sew
N eu ßrr ,„
■
N
[CfIW
.Eff
R6U
0I* 1
tfltw
100 TABLETS FOR 12/5
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Do lain
will be sent on request to Doicin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1 552,
GJ>.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
ENGLISH ELECTRIC
COMPANY
Outstanding Achievements
of Record Year
The thirty-fourth annual general
meeting of the English Electric
Company, Ltd., was held on March
19 in London, England.
Sir George H. NELSON, F.C.G.L,
M.l.Mech.B., M.I.E.E. (chairman and
managing director), in the course of
his speech said: Our production has
again been substantially increased,
our deliveries are £11,000,000 greater
than last year, and the orders re-
maining on our books stand at a
level which will enable the Company
to reach in 1953 and 1954 a volume
as high as has been reached in 195-
Orders in export markets have
reached the very high level of 55
per cent, of the total business
obtained for our normal products.
The Accounts
The consolidated profit before
taxation has risen by £716,893 to
£4,359,034, but 67 per cent., of this
total, namely, £2,909;516, goes in
taxation. We succeeded in 1952 in
increasing our consolidated profit
before taxation by nearly 20 per
cent., having similarly increased our
turnover. The result of this achieve-
ment is an addition of £93,988, or less
than 7 per cent, to the net profit
after taxation.
In 1938 the percentage of profit
on turnover before taxation was 9.87.
In 1952 it was 6.15. In 1938 the per-
centage of profit on turnover after
taxation was 7.9. In 1952 it was 2.04.
In 1938 the percentage of turnover
absorbed by Ordinary dividends
before tax was 2.58. In 1952 it was
1.2. In 1938 the percentage of turn-
over of Ordinary dividend paid after
tax was 1.87. In 1952 it was .59.
These comparisons show that our
selling prices have lagged behind the
increased cost of labour and
materials and of taxation, and they
emphsise the narrow margin of profit
on our turnover proving that the
profit element in our selling prices
is not inflationary.
Breakdown of Production Costs
Touching now on the breakdown
of the costs of production, the
following is the division of every
£lOO of our output for 1952 under
the various headings; Materials, in-
cluding bought-out finished articles.
50.72 per cent.; wages and salaries,
29.80 per cent.; depreciation, main-
tenance, power, heat, light, rent,
rates, insurance, etc., 11.60 per cent.;
interest on debentures, bank over-
draft, bills. 1.11 per cent., making a
total of 93.23 per cent., leaving a
balance of 6.77 per cent., from which
taxation takes 4.55 per cent., net
dividends of Preference and Ordi-
nary stock .79 per cent., and retained
in the business 1.43 per cent.
Research and Development
For many years your company has
applied its thoughts and finances to
a bold policy of research and de-
velopment in the fields of its tra-
ditional products; and also, at the
request of the Government, in ac-
tivities associated with defence. Last
year this expenditure exceeded
£7,000,000, including that part spon-
sored by the Government.
The progress made over these
various fields is really incredible.
Resources of scientific and technical
knowledge together with skilled ex-
perience have been built up in the
teams associated with these activities
and form a valuable reserve which
will play an important part in the
future achievements of your Com-
pany,
Australian Developments
Our factories in Australia have
considerably increased their output
during the past year.
THE CANBERRA: Five Canberras
are entered for the International
Race to New Zealand next November,
which we hope will add further
laurels to its fame.
Our relations with the daughter
firms in England who are building
these aircraft are very happy, as
they are, too, with our licensees,
the Government of Australia and the
Glenn Martin Company in America,
who have given tis the warmest and
happiest reception and collabora-
tion. We congratulate them all on
the progress they have made.
WATER TURBINES: A number of
large units are in course of construc-
tion for India, Australia, Tasmania
and South Africa.
DOMESTIC APPLIANCES: The
severe import restrictions in some
countries, especially Australia, com-
bined with the high rate of purchase
tax at home, have seriously affected
production in this field. However,
the necessary adjustments to find
employment for our people on other
products have been made without
any noticeable effect on employment.
GUIDED WEAPONS; I am now
able to reveal that, under pressure
from responsible Government autho-
rities'> at the time, your company
entered into important commitments
to design and produce guided
weapons at this early stage in the
creation of this new and vital de-
fence industry.
We have created a powerful design
and development team and are set-
ting up an advanced trials unit in
Australia.
The Marconi Group
It has been a good year for tele-
vision exports, with orders from
sources as widely separated as Asia
and South America.
The summer saw the inauguration
of television in Canada from Mon-
treal and Toronto, using Marconi
cameras and studio equipment.
Similar cameras and studio gear are.
still in daily use at the United
Nations Headquarters in New York.
A constant and unremitting pro-
gramme of research lies, behind the
achievements of Marconi’s Wireless
Telegraph Company, Ltd., and its
subsidiary Marconi Instruments,
Ltd.
The chairman reviewed the other
outstanding engineering events in
1952, and in conclusion he said: The
Group output in the United King-
dom has inereasd by a further
£11,000,000 over that of last year,
which has been another page in the
really romantic history of our ex-
pansion.
The report was adopted.
sales. Alive to its problems,
the management has installed a
lot of new plant for production
of full-fashioned nylon hosiery
and modernised the co.’s existing
equipment.
At 375. 6d. (325. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p. £1 ords. return
5.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis, the prefs, at
28s. 6d. yield 7 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £l2 6s. sd. prefs. and
475. 2d. ords.
Directors of King Island
Scheelite say “false rumors”
have been circulated regarding
the co.’s oversea contracts for
sale of concentrates. These con-
tracts are with the U.K. hnd
U.S. Governments, and run until
Feb., 1956, and Dec., 1957,
respectively. The floor-price
specified in these documents has
not been disclosed, but is known
to be in excess of the current
market price of wolfram, which
is around £SI6 sj. (= £A2O 65.)
per unit WO3. For the year to
Sept. 30 last the co. netted
£812,527, or 162.5 p.c. on its
half-million of share capital,
and paid divs. totalling £600,000,
or 120 p.c. with wolfram
averaging £A29 13s. 2d.
per unit. Ore reserves at
Oct. 31, 1952, were put at
2,291,500 tons, expected to aver-
age 0.5 p.c. WO3, with pros-
pects of more similar-grade stuff
being developed. Although the
co. is assured of good profits at
least until the contracts referred
to run out, the market takes the
long view and prices the f.-p.
ss. shares at 31s. 3d. as against
395. in Jan. 1953, and 555. a
year before that.
* * * *
Weaber’s Rising Sun, NX.,
has taken an 18-months’ work-
ing for £4OO over a copper-
bearing lease about three miles
north of the Peko mine on the
Tennant Creek field. If the
option is exercised, purchase-
price is £7OOO cash and £3ooo' in
shares. Two samples of floaters
from the outcrop assayed
approximately 25 p.c. copper
each. But until the deposit has
been systemically tested no reli-
able idea can be formed of
either the value or quantity of
copper-bearing ore available.
Oxidised outcrops usually yield
high assay results, but they are
not a reliable guide as to what
lies below, and the geology and
structure of the field are such as
to make thorough testing neces-
sary before anything but smdll-
scale operations are undertaken.
The co. has applied for exemp-
tion for its Wauchope wolfram
leases, because of the difficulty
of finding a market for the con-
centrates, and the plant is to be
transferred to the new option.
Paid capital is £20,983 in f.-p.
2s. shares, and Treasury consent
is being sought to issue 200,000
reserve shares at 2s. each. Be-
cause of the high cost of pro-
duction and heavy transport
charges—ore has to be railed to
Port Kembla for treat-
ment-only very high-grade
copper deposits can be worked
at a profit on this field, and
operating results would be very
sensative to movements in the
price of the metal.
« * * *
Last month seven members of
the Marvel Loch Prospector’s
Association (W.A.) asked the
Warden at Southern Cross to
refuse Nevoria Gold’s applica-
tion for six months’ exemption
on its 1000-acre holding, com-
prising 48 leases, at Marvel
Loch. The co. says it has spent
about £35,000 on drilling and
other work .since Aug., 1951.
The objectors claim that, since
drilling ceased about five months
ago, the co. should get into pro-
duction or get out. The Warden
adjourned the hearing for a
month to enable the co. to pro-
duce more detailed information,
and to say on what leases it is
prepared to grant tributes and on
what terms.


Women’s Letters
STBNET
Quite a few women wore cocktail
dresses and suits to Ladies Day at Rand-
wick, although there was plenty of time
to go home and change after’the last
race for the traditional party at the Union
Club later. On the whole one couldn’t
say that the fashions were at all exerting,
as there was very little that showed
imagination. Mrs. Millard Hagon’s
broad-brimmed “bear-trapper” hat of
black fur worn with a red dress had
dash, and Mrs. Geoff Moses struck a
different note with her white gabardine
suit and red flower-pot hat. Mrs. Tom
Bateman’s fawn Robin Hood hat had a
lively green feather in it, and Mrs. Rex
Money’s yellow hat, worn with a grey
suit, was adorned with a most glittery
glamorous safety-pin. Again the grey
suit and the small white hat outnumbered
all other outfits, one of the most trig of
these being worn by Mrs. A. Hobson,
who was with Mrs. M. McDermott, in
navy blue.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the prettiest weddings of the
week took place at Riverview Chapel
on Saturday when Sue Bond, elder
daughter of the J. J. Bonds, of Mosman,
married George Vaile, who is the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Vaile of
Neutral Bay. The bride and her maids
looked like a cluster of hydrangeas, the
bride wearing a very bouffant dress of
ice-white embroidered organdie over
layers and layers of blue tulle, with her
ice-blue tulle veil held in place by a tiny
cap of flowers cut from the material of
the dress. The bridesmaids, Margot Bond
and Helen Reynolds, with the little
flower-girl Mary Burke, carried out the
hydrangea idea with their full-skirted
dresses of pale-gr.ey organza over petti-'
coats of taffeta shot blue-and-rose. The
’groom was attended by Ferdinand de
Carvahlo and Michael Leslie. The honey-
moon is to be spent yachting on the
north coast.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Fencing and Physical Culture
Display to be held at the Sydney Town
Hall on Monday night should be
most interesting and also well patronised,
as fencing is rapidly becoming a favorite
sport for many Australians. The Dis-
play is in aid of the 1954 Empire Games
Fund and has been organised by Pro-
fessor Joan Beck, who is the only pro-
fessor of fencing in Australia (she won
the title by examination in London in
1951). The number for seat reserva-
tions is M 6068.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another new cookery book (and a
very good one) is German Cooking, by
Robin Howe (Deutch). Most people
think of Germans as being hearty eaters,
and would vaguely name sausage and
Sauerkraut as the whole of their diet.
This book brings over 400 recipes to
show that it is rich and imaginative.
There is fish cooked “blue,” shimmering
in its own scales, fruit soups served with
meringue dumplings, goose stuffed with
apples, chestnuts and raisins, beef stewed
in beer. Ingredients are lavish and nutri-
tious ; eggs, butter and cream are used
freely —and here the author has made
no attempt to, adapt the recipes to changed
conditions; each cook must do this for
herself. Spicy contrasts of flavor are
frequent; pears are cooked with bacon
and beans, apples and onions with red
cabbage.
Some exotic dishes are described;
cutlets of wild boar, bear fihets in bur-
gundy, capercailzie with juniper berries,
a wine-cup made with roses, a petal float-
ing in each glass, carp cooked for Christ-
mas Eve when each person must save one
scale to keep through the year for good
luck. The description of making of
apple-strudel, where the pastry is
stretched the full-length of the table until
it is so fine a newspaper can be read
through it, brings up a vivid picture of
the painstaking and loving way Germans
approach the art of cooking. All the
recipes are interesting to read and the
majority could be followed by the Aus-
tralian housewife.
☆ ☆ *
The Crippled Children will benefit
from pianist Beatrice Tange’s Farewell
Recital, which she will give at the Con-
servatorium on Thursday, April 30, be-
fore leaving for Europe, where she will
study with Walter Gieseking. Her pro-
gramme (hi the 30th will include Bach’s
Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue, Beeth-
oven’s Sonata in C Minor, Op. 111,
Brahms’ Paganini Variations, and works
by Scarlatti, Chopin, Rachmaninoff,
Bloch, Reger and Szymanowski.
☆ ☆ ☆
Kylie Tennant, whose seventh novel
“The Joyful Condemned,” has just been
published by Macmillan, began her
literary career when her first short story,
“Rabbitin’ ” was published by The
Bulletin in 1934. A year later she won
the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize with her
first novel “Tiburon,” and in 1940 she
again won the “Prior” with “The
Battlers,” which was also awarded the
Literature Society’s Gold Medal for 1941.
Her other novels are “Foveaux,” “Time
Enough Later,” “Ride On Stranger” and
“Lost Haven.” Educated at Brighton
College, Manly, and Sydney University,
Kylie Tennant has been journalist, copy-
writer, chicken-farmer, saleswoman; and
all her novels are written from first-hand
knowledge of character and environment.
For “The Joyful Condemned,” a story of
derelict girls in Sydney’s underworld, she
KYLIE TENNANT
even organised herself into being arrested
for riotous behavior so as to get authentic
material. In private life she is Mrs. Lewis
Rodd, has one daughter and spends most
of her time writing.
It is interesting to note that Dymphna
Cusack, another Australian woman writer
whose new novel appears this month, was
runner-up to Kylie Tennant for the S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize in 1935 with her
first novel “Jungfrau.” Her latest book,
“Southern Steel,” is a war-time story, of
Newcastle ( N.S.W.), begun in Australia
and finished in England, where it has
been published by Constable. Two of
Dymphna Cusack’s plays are being per-
formed in England this year: “Stand
Still Time” at the Irving Theatre in
London, and “Morning Sacrifice” in Hull
for three performances during April. She
herself is at present writing her next
novel in the sunshine of Banyuls-sur-mer
in the South of France.
The exodus to the Coronation con-
tinues. On Saturday the Orion took away
the Roy McCaugheys and Mrs. W. R.
Dovey (whose husband has recently been
appointed a Supreme Court Judge), Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Arthur of Yankalilla,
Cunnamulla (Qld.) and the Bruce Webbs
of Copper Hill, Molong (N.S.W-)- Others
to be lost to Australia for the time being
are Lady Walder, Miss Phillipa Curlewis,
Mrs. Donald Cameron (Oxley, Qld),
Mr. and Mrs. Reg Robson of Bellevue
Hill, and Mr. and Mrs. V. Vickers, of
Goldsworth, Uralla (N.S.W-)-
☆ * ☆
Some echoes from Australians abroad:
The Harry Dawsons, formerly of
Temora, recently farewelled Fairbridge
boys at a party at the Overseas Club
with the Bartons of Derrima, Collarene-
bri, who had recently returned from a
motoring tour of Devon and Cornwall,
where with their son Alan they had been
studying agricultural methods in England.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Rosman, of Ade-
laide, with tennis-player daughter Rose-
mary, are off to the Continent, but will
be back in time for the Coronation.
Rosembary has been asked to play at
Wimbledon —quite an honor —and she has
been practising at the Ritz Courts and
the Queens Club.
Diana Perryman, now an air-hostess
on a Middle East run— -jl job she finds
very interesting, though she had hoped
to break into the theatrical world when
she went to London two years ago—has
a flat with N.S.W. girls Cynthia Wells
(Gordon), who is with the A.8.C., Muriel
Morfis (Maitland), school-teaching at the
moment, and Dorothy Gould (Cronulla).
Their fifth companion, Marie Gray
(Neutral Bay), recently married Robert
Chapman, an Australian engineer, at St.
Jude’s Church. After the honeymoon
Robert goes off to his job in Nigeria, but
Marie won’t go till later, as she has a
seat for the Coronation.
MELBOURNE
There were nearly 100 guests at the
monthly luncheon of the Overseas League
at the Victoria Palace, when Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Horace Robertson was guest-speaker.
Chairman of the League, Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones, introduced the speaker.
Those present included Mr. and Mrs. F. D.
Brockhoff, Mesdames Mervyn Morgan,
Murray Shepherd and Felix Harber,
Aphra Herzell, Kathleen Gentle and
members of the Overseas ' League
Younger Group.
☆ ☆ it
The Bishop of Geelong, Rt. Rev. J. D.
McKie, assisted by Archdeacon A. R.
Mace, officiated at the marriage at St.
John’s Church, Toorak, of Constance
Marjorie, daughter of the High
sioner for Australia in Pakistan, Major-
Gen. L. E. Beavis, and Mrs. Beavis. The
bride wore a gown of gold-woven brocade
brought from Pakistan; it featured a
strapless bodice and an apron-fronted
skirt fully-gathered and finished with a
white net train to match her veil, which
fell from a Mary Stuart cap embroidered
with beads and pearls. She carried a
brocade-covered prayer-book with a
spray of orange-blossom pinned to it'.
Marjorie Ross and Leila Butler were
bridesmaids. The bridegroom, Com-
DYMPHNA CUSACK
mander Hugh Shenfield Barber, R.N.,
son of Mr. and Mrs. C. C. Barber, of
Hazelmere, Surrey, England, had Com-
mander John Beckley, R.N., as best man.
Reception was held at the Toorak home
of Capt. and Mrs. J. P. Williams. Com-
mander and Mrs. Barber leave for Eng-
land at the end of the month.**
☆ ☆ ☆
President of Y.W.C.A., Mrs. T. C.
Rentoul, and members of the board were
hostesses at an informal luncheon given
in honor of Miss Eileen Woodward, new
general-secretary of “Y” in this city—
she replaces Miss M. Law, who has gone
to Sydney in the same capacity. Among
the many guests were Mrs. Crichton
Barr, of the Presbyterian Women’s Asso-
ciation ; Miss Amy Brown, of the Abo-
rigines Welfare Association; Mrs. J. G.
Norris, of the National Council of
Women ; Mrs. Lyall Williams, who repre-
sented the Inter-Church Council; Mrs.
Donald McLeap; Mrs. A. Dwyer, vice-
pres. of Y.W.C.A.; Mrs. J. T. Massey;
Mrs. Essington Lewis, who has handed
over to Mrs. Hector Greig the position
of Chairman of Publicity Committee;
and Mrs. Jack Cordner.
The invitations received by Dame Enid
Lyons and Mrs. George Vasey to attend
the Coronation have given women every-
where a great deal of satisfaction. Dame
Enid has served her country well; the
work Mrs. Vasey has done for the War
Widows Guild as Federal president has
been a more personal one, but she also
has given sterling service. The patron
of the Guild is also a war widow —the
Duchess of Kent. While there Mrs.
Vasey hopes to meet the Duchess, who
has already met two of the Guild’s vice-
presidents when they were in London.
☆ ☆ ☆
Before the Himalaya departed from
Port Melbourne many Coronation-bound
passengers entertained in cabins filled
with farewell gifts of lovely flowers.
Largest party was that given by Mr. and
Mrs. Ray Joseph. Among their guests
were Mrs. Royden Honeyman, Mrs.
Constance Day, Mrs. T. Corrigan, Mrs.
John Woodhouse (who leaves shortly in
the Oronsay with her two daughters,
Rosemary and Robin), Mrs. John Hartley
and Rita Joseph.
Mrs. Isobel Green, attractive in a
Parma-violet tweed coat and small straw
hat in a lighter tone, was another pas-
senger who entertained. Her daughter,
Mrs. Ron McGregor, Mrs. L. Menzies,
Mrs. S.>Mcnzies and Mrs. P. Calver were
among her guests. And just before the*
Himalaya sailed Mrs. Green received a
trunk call from her brother, the Prime
Minister.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wolfgang Schneiderhan was the soloist
in Brahms’s Violin Concerto when Joseph
Post conducted the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra. In the audience were Arch-
bishop J, J. Booth and Mrs. Booth, Lady
Latham, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, Lady
Scott, Mrs. Roger Fairbairn, Mrs. A.
Wiltshire, Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Richard-
son, Mrs. Joseph Post, pianist Vera Brad-
ford, Mary Paterson, Helen Manton and
Iris Williams.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dressing was mixed at the V.A.T.C.
meeting at Caulfield, for warm weather
made a sudden return and sleeveless silk
frocks went cheek-by-jowl with tweed
suits and woollen frocks. Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the chairman of the
V.A.T.C., wore grey tweeds faintly
striped in white ; her small black felt hat
had touches of yellow on the band. Lady
Snow wore with her ink-blue suit a close-
fitting hat of peacock-green velvet. White
guipure lace was appliqued across the
crown of the black velvet hat Mrs. Ken
McLean wore with her black suit. Lady
Burston’s beige pleated suit had a brown
velvet collar. Of cinnamon-brown felt
and navy grosgrain was Mrs. W, H.
Horsfall’s hat which went with her navy
suit.
A white melusine hat ornamented with
steel pearls made neat contrast for Mrs.
P. J. Lennon’s grey tailored frock. Kath-
leen Solly’s grey-and-white-checked wool
frock was topped by a white melusine
cloche. Mrs. Oscar Bowden wore an
all-grey ensemble, Mrs. W. S. Cox a
suit in cinnamon-brown angora with
matching hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Clothes for all occasions designed and
made by Madame Caroline Chambrelent
will be featured at a mannequin parade
and cocktail party on April 23 at the
Toorak home of Mrs. Sam Pierce
arranged by the Whernside Auxiliary to
the Royal Melbourne Hospital. Details
may be obtained from Mrs. Peter
Andrews (UY5194) or Mrs. Ronald
Marriott (8Y1622).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal Melbourne Hospital
Almoner Auxiliary (Ambulance Fund),
headed by Mrs. W. K. Burnside, will
probably net over £350 from the luncheon
at Giro’s, when William Beale showed his
collection of Easter bonnets. Mrs. Henry
E. Stebbins, wife of the U.S. Consul-
General, opened proceedings and spoke
feelingly of the urgent need for money
to maintain the ambulance service for
the sick and aged who had to attend hos-
pital. She was attractive in a smart black
frock and small mushroom-shaped straw
hat. Mrs. Burnside’s frock was of deep-
brown satin-striped taffeta ; her matching
hat was trimmed with brown and emerald
ostrich-feathers. Mrs. A. G. Warner
and Mrs. Ralph Bryant were members
of the energetic committee ; Mrs. S. F-
Kroussos was ticket-secretary.
☆ ☆ ☆
On May 1 the Loreto Old Girl’s
Association will hold its Ball at the
Royale, proceeds from which will go to
the Loreto Free Kindergarten at South
Melbourne. A group of debutantes will
be presented to Mrs. Anthony Kelly,
president of the Toorak branch of the
Association, and Mrs. Roy Dobson, vice-
president of Mary’s Mount branch Bal-
larat. Mrs. George Mulvany (UL1878)
and Mrs. B. McGumess (U 9087) will be
happy to supply tickets.


Public Notice
I, SUZANNE FINWAKU, oorn ivnvo.y-nog
(Russia), resident 16 years in Australia,
now residing at 224 William Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W., intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
Missing Friends
MEDHURST. —If this should come to the
notice of JAMES JOSEPH, MEDHURST,
formerly of Armidale, N.S.W. (sometimes
known as McKenzie or McDonald) or
anyone knowing his address, please com-
municate with A. W. SIMPSON & CO.,
Solicitors, Armidale, when something of
advantage to J. J. Medhurst will be fur-
nished.
GRAYDON, John Henry, late of Enngonia
via Burke. Would anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the wife or son of the
abovenamed, believed to be called Kate
and Sydney, John Sydney or John Henry,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Born IS2O—
aolng zfrong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAUtER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
jw.i4s.ta
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
An Optical Illusion
“You look,” said Myrtle to
the Turtle, “as though you are
going cross-eyed.”
T.: “Thank heavens for that.”
M.: “I beg your pardon?”
T.: “I said thank heavens for
that —you have saved me from
doing several people an
injustice.”
M.: “I still don’t follow.”
T.: “I have been plodding
around some art shows and was
about to make some intolerant
and uncharitable remarks about
them. Now that you have
identified my affliction I see that
the fault is with me.”
M.: “Did you see Drysdale’s
‘Old Larsen’ at the Macquarie
Galleries?”
T.: “See it! I lingered with
it for some time. That, of
course, was before my affliction
smote me. A magnificent por-
trait—rich, thoroughly painted,
illuminated by an imaginatively-
conceived fiery light and filled
with character. So good, in
fact, that it quite overshadows
the rest of the’ exhibition —
though I did pause to admire
Ena Joyce’s ‘Bush Wattle,’
Orban’s ‘Street in Picton,’ Carl
Plate’s ‘White Faced Heron’
and George Lawrence’s ‘Street
in Marseilles.’ ”
M.: “Lawrence? I thought
you disliked his work.”
T.: “I never said so ; I have
a few reservations, that’s all. I
-have suspected a formula, and
felt that in seeking for the
drama of stone and earth and
heavy skies' he neglects the
greens and growing things of
the earth —an attitude that seems
to reveal itself in his offhand
treatment of trees and people.
Still, he does get a measure of
richness of drama.”
M.: “Your vision seems to
have been undisturbed at that
stage. Where did it fail —at the
French exhibition at the
National Gallery?”
T.: “I think not. I passed
from that show to the exhibition
of the Gallery’s acquisitions and
purchases for nineteen fifty-two.
I believe I saw that with an
unjaundiced eye. A Gallery
such as ours, of course, is in a
difficult position ; it hasn’t much
money and cannot afford to
plunge on masters old or new.
Nor can it buy according to
taste. If it does it would almost
certainly favor one side or
another of the many sides into
which art seems to be divided.
So it tries to be scrupulously
fair by acquiring what amount
to specimens. That doesn’t
seem to please anyone either.”
M.: “You make it sound
quite hopeless.”
T.: “Not at all. I’m only
saying that you shouldn’t ex-
pect to find in such an exhibi-
tion a gallery full of master-
pieces or even of paintings which
meet your taste. I, for instance,
was pleased to see that the Gal-
lery had come by Howard Ash-
ton’s ‘Rain on the Dunes,’ Drys-
dale’s ‘Sofala,’ Dobell’s ‘Lady
Lloyd Jones,’ Ivor Heles
‘Laurie Thomas,’ Lloyd Rees s
‘Evening on the Bathurst Hills,’
Orban’s ‘Village Church in
Hungary,’ Rah Fizelle’s ‘Piave
de Cadore,’ two McNamara
watercolors, Reinis Zuster’s por-
trait of John Price Strange,
Donald Friend’s ‘Boy and Girl,
Venzia,’ and from overseas,
Thomas Hudson’s ‘Lady Oxen-
den.’ And there are others —a
Lambert, a Leason, a Meldrum
and a Longstaff—which I felt
forced to admire without being
particularly enamored of them.”
M.: “You appear to have
been well satisfied.”
T.: “Not for a moment.
There was much with which I
felt no accord whatever, and I
thought that the Gallery could
have come by better Town-
shends and a better Solomon
than it did.”
M.: “And those you dis-
liked?”
T.: “Why mention them?
Others liked them. And the
Gallery is, after all, a public
servant.”
M.: “Perhaps your crossed
vision comes from trying to
look both ways at once?”
T.: “Possibly, but I doubt it.
I passed from the National Gal-
lery to that of David Jones and,
with a sight that seemed un-
hampered, inspected the Autumn
Exhibition of the Society of
Artists. A slight exhibition it
is, mainly because of a pre-
ponderance of studies and
sketches which, really, are about
as satisfactory as a half-made
chair. It has its graceful touches
—Douglas Annand’s ‘Venice,
with an Acolyte,’ Jean Apple-
ton’s ‘Hillside,’ and Arthur
Murch’s ‘The Return’ are
examples—and it gains a little
substance from such as
Lawrence, Eldershaw, Charles
Meere, Orban, Cav. A. Dattilo-
Rubbo and T. J. Santry’s
‘Passing Storm,’ but is still
much too slight for the space it
occupies.”
M.: “You sound vaguely
annoyed. Could your ocular
affliction stem from a state of
mind?”
T.: “That is always possible.
But I think it was the traffic
in Elizabeth-street that caused
it —probably when I was trying
to avoid being run over simul-
taneously by a tram, a taxi and
a truck. I passed from that
hairbreadth escape to the exhi-
bition of entries for the Blake
Prize for Religious Painting at
Mark Foy’s Gallery, and, by
then, I fear, the affliction had
overtaken me.”
M.: “In what way?”
T.: “Well, until you made me
aware that my vision has failed
me, I was about to criticise this
last exhibition. It seemed to me
that the first prize—won by
Michael Kmit for ‘The Evange-
list, John Mark’ —had been
awarded to a rather messy paint-
ing of a half-starved, scrofulous
Syrian bandit; that the second
—won by Frank Hinder —had
gone to a semi-abstract which,
although I did manage to dis-
cern in it a prismatic bril-
liance and a surprising dignity,
had little more than cleverness
to commend it; and that the
third prize—to Peter Laverty’s
‘Pieta’ —had been given to a
large, cold expanse of paint.”
M.: “But”
T.: I had also intended to
make some remarks about awful
dullness, about misdirected or
carefully-concealed talent or
the complete absence of it,
about the uselessness of com-
petitions, about a few paintings
in the exhibition which seemed
to make some approach to both
religion and art —they were
probably monstrosities but
since you have told me I am
cross-eyed I realise the fault is
all mine and”
M.: “But”
T.: “And may Ibe made into
soup if I say another word!”
*X* ❖ ❖
Moya Dyring (a pupil of the
late Bernard Hall), who lives
most of her time in Paris and
spends most of her time there
copying Old Masters to see what
they wefp after, is showing paint-
ings in gouache and oils at Tye’s
Gallery, Melbourne. On the
evidence of her pictures she
hasn’t merely copied the surface
aspects, like mozt moderns, but
has tried to understand the
underlying thing which links an
El Greco with a Van Gogh and
a Rembrandt with a Cezanne.
It is easy to see which artist has
influenced her when she was
painting “Farmhouse, Nor-
mandy,” “Fisherman’s Cottage
and Boat” and “Concaneau,”
but, although you think of
Cezanne or Van Gogh when you
look at this or that picture, you
also think of Nature, in spite of
the roughness and occasional
devil-may-care quality of her
brushwork.
Stage and Music
Trio
The crowd was four-deep
along the corridors for the joint
swansong of Ermgard Seefried,
Wolfgang Schniederhan and
Gerald Moore at Melbourne
Town Hall, and the show had
almost started when somebody
decided to fill the organ gallery,
so up went the big curtain and
away went the potplants.
At 8.36 the show had almost
started when the spotlight went
wrong and more potplants were
shifted. After “God Save the
Queen” it was confidently be-
lieved that the show had started,
but Mr. Moore stood up and
shouted “Would someone please
shut that door.” When the
offending door was located and
shut it was found that the order
of the songs had to be altered.
Then Ermgard sang and the
show had really started. Her
Brahms seemed uninspired, but
that may , have been an illusion
due to the interruptions. Then
Schneiderhan brought out his
violin and played the Bruch con-
certo, seeming to play better
than at his solo concert, with
Moore accompanying him this
time and no curtain behind him
to absorb the tone and color.
Next, Seefried sang Hindemith,
who usually sounds hard and
dry, and made him sound soft
and liquid. The crowning glory
of the evening was the Mozart
—it was truly lovely. The three
of them were there together, and
Melbourne has seldom listened to
a more distinguished trio.
*X* ♦> ❖
On Ice
At Melbourne Princess, where
lately the sweet birds sang and
the ballerinas danced, everything
is on ice now and everybody is
on a knife-edge-K:omedians,
acrobats, jugglers, trick-cyclists,
stilt-walkers, crooners, dancers
and scene - shifters. The
orchestra is stationary,. however.
This is a grave omission on the
part of the producer, Harry
Wren, and it is a wonder he
didn’t think of it, since he is
going to put “Cinderella” on ice
shortly, with the complete cast
of his “Ice Parade” in full opera-
tion, plus 20 brilliant panto
artists and 40 of Australia’s
most talented children.
Why doesn’t he go further and
put Shakspeare on ice? The
skates lead to a great speeding-
up of the action, and that is one
of the complaints against Shak-
speare. If lago whizzed 40
times round Othello with the
cunning ease of a Bob White
before whispering his foul
innuendoes into the Moor’s ear,
and if Othello expressed his
anguish by gyrating on one toe
as dizzily as Terry Taylor while
Desdemona wavered to and fro
in the background with the
superb grace of Britta Rahlen,
it would make the Bard’s long
speeches more tolerable to listen
to.
The comedians in “Ice
Parade” are Kenny Lamb,
Keith Petersen and Buddy
Clarke, and they are funnier in
their physical antics than their
verbal humor. The Kermond
Brothers are two young Aus-
tralians whose acrobatics on the
ice and in the air are positively
amazing, but no more so than
Wilbur Wheeler’s on his cycle.
Britta Rahlen, eight times cham-
pion of Sweden, is grace and
speed incarnate, though Peggy
Mortimer, another Australian,
leaves one just as breathless.
Even the spectacles are moving,
particularly the one called
“South-American Siesta.”
* ❖
The National Theatre Arts
Festival concluded at Melbourne
Princess in a blaze of glory with
a night of snippets from its
various productions. They in-
cluded an act from “La
Boheme,” . a bit of “Aurora’s
Wedding” and a repetition by
Marie Collier of her amazing
vocal and acting performance as
the half-crazed Marie Sorel in
the second act of “The Consul.”
Talkies
“Appointment with Venus”
That genius for sublety and
understatement which identifies
the best English film-making is
imprinted on this delightful war-
time comedy at Sydney
Embassy.
Somebody in England be-
comes aware that among the
inhabitants of one of the small
Channel Islands occupied by the
German Army i£ one Venus, a
cow of wondrous lineage. It is
unthinkable that this bovine
aristocrat should be denied to
English husbandry and, worse,
perhaps enrich some Teutonic
strain ; sojhe War Office, at the
urgent behest of the Agricultural
Department, seconds a Scottish
major to the task of kidnapping
the cow.
An amphibious operation is
planned. A girl from the
Women’s Army, in England,
who is the daughter of the
island’s suzerain and who knows
the tricky coastline intimately,
volunteers to go with the major
and a sergeant-radio-operator,
all being put ashore by sub-
marine.
Matters are complicated when
the German Commandant, him-
self a cattle-breeder and immedi-
ately attracted to the cow,
realises its pricelessness from a
study of its elongated pedigree
and decides to ship it, pronto, to
Germany. The raiding party is
put to certain shifts, including
the painting of a plebeian cow
to make it look like the aristo,
which is switched and hidden
in a cave pending rescue by
British motor torpedo-boat.
The subsequent doings provide
plenty of excitement mixed with
robust humor.
Some of the best work in the
film is done by George
Coulouris as the German Com-
mandant. Inclined to benevol-
ence and honestly trying to
make the occupation easy by
cultivating the islanders’ friend-
ship, he develops an almost
fanatical affection for the bovine
beauty, which he visualises as
the queen of the Third Reich’s
herds. David Niven as the Scot-
tish major and Glynis Johns as
the girl do their jobs with calm,
quiet efficiency.
<* ❖ ❖
“The Clown”
The makers of this opus have
simply taken the plot of “The
Champ” in which Wallace Beery
was a beery boxer trying to
stage a comeback, and given it a
face-lift by turning the pug into
an alcoholic vaudeville comic
who overcomes his weakness and
hits the headlines again via
television.
The film doesn’t survive the
burden of heavy layers of sen-
timentality and of a child actor
who seems to invite attention
with a baseball-bat.
Red Skelton, a natural
comedian, has the task of keep-
ing the thing together, but it is
beyond him. Easily the best
thing in the film is a sequence
that has been lifted from an
earlier Skelton film—a glorious
piece of fooling, with the bulky
Skelton getting mixed up in a
ballet performance of “Swan
Lake.”
The finale of the film is as
choice a piece of sentimental
drivel as has been seen for a
long time. At Sydney St. James.
The “Modems”
Although there is a lot in
what Norman Lindsay says
about modern artists, I would
not go so far as to pay
(i Continued on page 29)


NICK AND THE
GREAT WORLD
by HUGH CLARKE
NICK, an Australian-bom
Greek, first saw the Great
World when he was
stationed on the west
coast of Malaya. His unit
received an invitation from the
Gordon Highlanders for all men
of Scottish descent to proceed to
Singapore to join in the Scots-
men’s celebration, and the
resourceful Nick, with the
O’Briens, Murphys and genuine
Scots, boarded the train for
Singapore, It was there he saw
the Great World, a huge
Chinese - owned entertainment-
centre.
Nick discovered it as an
explosion of colored lights ,in an
area of shadow and squalor. He
went there one night in a rick-
shaw, and as the puller loped
through narrow, murky streets
towards a rising volume of
Oriental discords he thought
“This is the life! I’d like the
mob at work to see me now!”
One year later he was back at
the Great World, this time as a
working guest of the Emperor
of Japan.
His first job for the Japs was
at the food-dump, a term which
embraced a number of ware-
houses, including Nestle House,
the British-American Tobacco
Company store and others. The
overlord of these establishments,
and of the prisoners, was
Sergeant Tassero.
Tassero was the first Japanese
Nick had met as a prisoner. He
was tall and thin, and his small
head consisted mainly of teeth.
He smiled often, and spoke in a
high - pitched squeaky voice.
Nevertheless, in his uniform,
with jackboots and sword, he
had a certain dignity. He had
an obsession for motor-bikes and
had acquired three for his
personal use, only to lose them
one by one as his superiors dis-
covered them. In his quarters at
the food-dump Nick later found
a large collection of children’s
toys, destined, Tassero hoped,
for his kids in Tokyo.
■pORTUNATELY for Nick,
Tassero also had a sense of
humor. As Tassero surveyed his
prisoners from a platform in
front of the warehouse they in
turn contemplated him and the
unsavory-looking crew beside
him. Not Nick. He strolled
casually up to Tassero and
slapped him heartily on the
back.
“Strike me pink, Sorchow
[Sergeant], you’re an ugly
b ,” he bellowed. “Be on
those teeth!” he invited his
mates, “They’re like ruddy cow-
catchers.”
More than slightly taken
aback, Tassero answered Nick’s
wide grin with a weak smile.
The men in the ranks wondered
how Nick’s head would look de-
tached from its body.
“Poor old Nick wasn’t a bad
bloke,” whispered his friend
Cain.
Nick, however, moved daunt-
lessly from one audacity to
another. Tassero, on his part,
grew perceptibly embarrassed,
while his ape-like underlings
glowered threateningly.
The men breathed again when
Tassero ordered the guards to
count them and put them to
work lifting cases and putting
them down. Simoji, a pock-
marked little ferret, Sikista, the
black-bearded sadist, and Kingjo,
the strong man with the weak
brain, supervised their toil and
tried to keep them honest.
“This is going to be a labor
of love,” grinned Cain, who was
a heavy smoker. “I hear the
whole tobacco-supply for Malaya
is locked up here.” He studied
for a moment the stencil-marks
on a case Nick was carrying.
“That’s a case of Craven A’s
you’ve got there, Nick,” he said.
“Yeah, I know, and I’ll soon
have some of them out of this
case or I’m a bad judge.” Nick
had been smoking hibiscus-
leaves for the past three days.
TVESPITE the vigilance of
Kingjo and Simoji, it wasn’t
long before each innocent-
looking prisoner was loaded with
contraband. Strange swellings
appeared under armpits, waist-
lines bulged and many a man’s
natural gait degenerated to a
graceless waddle because of
parcels of cigarettes strapped to
his thighs.
Despite regular searches and
bashings Tassero’s store of
tobacco and food began to
diminish as each night the long
column of prisoners marched
back to the Great World along
the one-and-a-half-mile route
through the city.
Indian, Malay and Chinese
civilians awaited their coming
each night, laden with fruit and
bread to exchange for Tassero’s
cigarettes. For weeks the mobile
market flourished, despite the
frenzied attempts of the three
guards to crush the trade. Cain
bought a luscious pawpaw from
a Chinaman one night, only to
have it snatched from his hands
by a guard and flung at the head
of its former owner.
A few days later a guard
kicked a pregnant Malay woman
in the stomach for trading a
bunch of bananas.
Then Sikista caught Garvie
Ferrar with a tin of condensed-
milk. For two days they kept
him tied-up outside Jap head-
quarters. Each morning they
emptied their ash-trays in his
face; they spat on him and
burnt his stomach with cigarette-
butts. Garvie laughed in their
faces, and in fury they half-
drowned him in a horse-trough.
After that the Jap interpreter
grudgingly shook hands with
him and let him' go.
The frequency of such inci-
dents began to restrain the
average prisoner.
Meanwhile Tassero was falling
more and more under the spell
of the Greek. Nick, christened
“Monkey” by the sergeant on
account of his hairy chest, had
become Tassero’s driver. In this
trusted post he urblushingly
used a Japanese truck to Toot on
a grand scale, delivering cases of
tobacco to Chinese agents around
the town. Even the guards be-
came impotent before the bare-
faced behavior of the Greek.
Thieving generally became a
science—all men striving to
perfect their own particular tech-
niques. Elaborate warning-
systems were devised At the
words “Red light” busy pilferers
immediately became industrious,
submissive workers —until the
guard moved on.
■jVrICK, the master-scrounger,
planned his acquisitions like
a general, always making his
selections from the best stocks
available. He and Cain had been
working on a job sorting Jap
clothing and boots, obviously
salvaged from the battlefield.
Many of the shirts were blood-
stained, but the Japs wasted
little, and in due course fresh
soldiers would be economically
outfitted. Near by stood a stack
of cases containing Australian
Army boots, from which they
intended to refit themselves
before the day was over.
“Gripes! Here comes Tich,”
groaned Cain.
Tich was a short infantryman
with a large head. He was a
good soldier, and like all
prisoners a confirmed scrounger.
The trouble with Tich was his
exaggerated guilt-complex. If
he had concealed about his
person a packet of cigarettes, his
rolling eyes and bobbing head
inevitably drew Jap attention
like a magnet. Consequently,
when any serious hauls were
contemplated most men felt
happier when Tich was else-
where.
“Fair go, Tich. You’ll draw
the crabs,” complained one of
the group as Tich furtively sidled
up to the boots.
During the search that after-
noon, Tich stood twitching at
attention with two tins of bully-
beef balanced on his head
beneath an English pith-helmet.
An angry guard had already
extracted a prodigious quantity
of tobacco and food from his
pockets and haversack. The
guard stood back and planted a
punch on Tich’s jaw. To the
guard’s amazement Tich’s helmet
fell to the ground, followed by
the two tins of beef. Eyeing
his victim in disbelief for a few
minutes, the Jap went berserk
and gave poor Tich a hiding
which left him bruised for
weeks.
The Great World was the
main receiving-centre for the
products of their scrounging.
Early in the piece, the com-
mandant of the camp abandoned
hope of abolishing trade with the
natives. As a compromise he
allowed a certain number of
Chinese and Malays to enter the
camp each night. A long
counter was erected in front of
the guard-house where the
prisoner could legally spend his
earnings of threepence per day.
Each night the uncomprehend-
ing Japs witnessed the spectacle
of men spending more in one day
than they earned in a month.
Not only that; had they
examined the baskets of the
native-traders they would have
found such articles as revolvers,
ammunition, bicycle-chains, lip-
stick or knives being wheeled
out of the camp each night.
/"''AIN, Nick and nine other
Australians were ordered to
move to the food-dump and take
up residence in a hut next-door
to the quarters occupied by
Tassero and his men.
“The less I see of the little
b s the better I like them,”
Cain commented as they settled
in.
“I can stand them as long as
we’re surrounded by all this
tucker,” Nick qualified.
Their first job was to persuade
Tassero to condemn as unfit a
huge stock of condensed-milk.
They showed their further
willingness to serve the sergeant
by suggesting a suitable
dumping-ground for the “bad”
milk.
Tassero, at heart a humane
man, perhaps suspected he was
being fooled. In any case he
.allowed Nick and the boys to
load the milk on to a large truck
which Nick drove to Bukit
Timah, where hundreds of Aus-
tralians were toiling at the task
of converting Bukit Timah Hill
into a Japanese war shrine.
As his new home Nick became
practically a free agent, even to
the point of accompanying
Tassero on motor-cycle jaunts
around the town. Cain, a power-
fully-built ex-King’s Cup rower,
was perhaps the calmest man in
the group. The Japs regarded
him as dumb and lazy, and never
awoke to the audacious acts he
put on under their very noses.
The others were equally skilled
in the art of deception and will-
ing to risk their necks for food
or news.
They knew a few of the
Japanese guards who lived in a
neighboring hut. Kingjo was
harmless, but Simoji and Sikista
were not fools. They had obvi-
ously received a sound educa-
tion in anti-white propaganda.
They knew the Australians were
up to no good, and fretted with
the frustration of their efforts to
expose their wrongdoing.
On the credit side were
Tassero, Ite, the lance-corporal,
. and Ugly, Ite’s battle com-
panion. Ite, an ex - bank
clerk, was a big happy-
natured man, with a weakness
for beer, possessor of tolerance
and humor rarely exhibited by
the Jap. They were almost
pleasant rogues, and tended to
turn a blind eye to much Aus-
tralian skullduggery.
■pACH day commenced with
physical training, followed
by a recitation of the Five
Imperial Doctrines, in which
both Japanese and their prisoners
joined. Roughly translated it
went something like this:
First the soldier makes it his
destiny to perform
patriotism.
Second the soldier maintains
etiquette.
Third the soldier respects
martial courage.
Fourth the soldier values truth-
fulness.
Fifth the soldier remains austere.
The Australians turned to the
east, humped their backs and
recited in tune with the Japs:
We will win the war — No!
We will win the war — No!
Occasionally they varied it
with Mary had a little lamb.
Breakfast followed, usually
from the illicit store which they
kept'in the false bottom of the
table. The rice provided by the
Japs was hidden until later in the
day, when Ah Lum—a Chinese
batman employed by the Japs—•
collected it for his family. Ah
Lum showed his gratitude in
many ways, supplying Japanese
newspapers, beer and other
necessities denied to a prisoner.
Each morning after breakfast
Tassero held a short conference
with his underlings in the
tobacco warehouse. He dis-
played a childlike trust in his
workers, leaving them completely
unguarded for at least 10 minutes
each morning. During this 10
minutes they went to work with
enthusiasm, checking over the
Jap quarters and going through
their office. They unearthed a
wireless hidden in the Jap hut,
and from then on the news
flowed regularly.
The news at the time was not
good: Rommel was at the gates
of Alexandria, and the
Emperor’s hordes were still
spreading south. In their eager-
ness to keep track of events the
prisoners relaxed their vigilance.
“Turn it up a bit, Nick,” some-
one whispered.
Nick turned the volume-
regulating knob on the battered
old set and the words tumbled
out.
“This is Richard Dimbleby of
the British Broadcasting Com-
mission, broadcasting the news
for free men everywhere”
“Ha, ha, ha!” they chorused.
Richard proceeded to tell them
how crook things were, as they
sat with downcast faces. Sud-
denly the sound of footsteps
overshadowed the tones of Mr.
Dimbleby. As Nick feverishly
twiddled for another station a
jackbooted, sword - girted,
bespectacled figure loomed
through the doorway. They sat
petrified in the Japs’ hut, staring
at the two stars on the visitor’s
collar which proclaimed a
Japanese officer.
“Music! Music!” mumbled
Cain, as a medley of static and
several different stations
thundered from the set.
The uncomfortable silence
lingered as the officer made
mental notes of the picture
before him. Then, without a
word he swung around and
walked to mount a bicycle upon
which, apparently, he had come.
A T this critical moment
Tassero’s wretched dog
chose to make an appearance.
As the officer mounted his
bicycle, his long Samurai sword
became entangled in the spokes
of a wheel. At the same time
Tassero’s dog—a democratic
beast—launched himself at the
leg of the struggling officer. Not
daring to witness the humiliation
of such an exalted personage, the
prisoners did not observe what
followed.
“Looks like a batch of
Japanese haircuts for us,” Cain
commented cheerfully. “From
the shoulders up.”
Days passed, however, and
nothing happened. Then one
morning the Black Triangle
guards arrived and removed
Tassero’s dog and the wireless-
set,
AS convoy after convoy of
ships moved,into Singapore
the cases of food in the sheds
were loaded on to trucks for
carriage to the docks. Parties
of Tamils, Chinese, Malays and
Indians were brought in to load
the trucks. The distasteful job
of supervising this work was
handed to the Australians, Cain
and Nick were placed in charge
of a group of Chinese, whilst
pairs of the others were put with
the Tamils, Indians and Malays.
The Australians co-operated
well with their Chinese comrades,
contriving to end each day with
full and contented stomachs.
The Chinese, however, knowing
that the dump was guarded by
Australians, developed the prac-
tice of coming along at night.
The prisoners had no objection
to this habit provided the visits
were quietly conducted and did
not coincide with the rounds of
the Japanese orderly-officer. .
“I hope the silly beggars don’t
make such a noise if they come
back again tonight, Cain,” Nick
said as he set off on his watch-
man’s rounds one night about
eleven .o’clock, armed with a
golf-stick and a torch.
Tassero and his men were m
bed with no lights showing, so
he softly returned to where Cain
was waiting. The sky was black
with storm-clouds and rent with
continuous flashes of lightning.
The rain commenced as they set
off between the rows of huts to-
ward a shed containing the milk.
Cain, a fearless character,
climbed through a narrow open-
ing above the door. He knew
((Continued on page 28)


PRODUCTS OF THt
Routes
CROUP
rJL... I
; r :
' * % f t :
'
••v
o
fcrjJfl I
’ffi/'+'&i i|
<4
l* ; iP
•: •• '•:,
*1
ip
* M U ******* ~ rr~
* #
3
J.:
T>
»
i ft
i -?>V * i' INHiP# t $
P
W
%
LtA
v.
**
a*
P
K
4
i
$
o.
**
tf
p
0
0>
«»iV
;
<■ ;
%
To
%
m
■■
0*
' # ’^ s tS f^ } SBBS^''
m
O
t>
i
$
w>
o
«*
£
i
<A
u*
*
«*
*%
V
P
9
3
I i
H
i
-
9
Sill
C
:
V:
r»
a
lo
a
!^m^.
*;
«c, . •*>
*" "> m i
*
3
a
r
i i
U
i
mm
* s
.*•
mm
■
m
Sil
Mi
> *
5
Hi
I
L
m
-
ThE Australian factory of the Rootes Group at Fishermen’s
Bend, Victoria, is a guarantee that the Rootes standard of craftsmanship
is maintained on the spot by skilled Australian workers. It ensures that
Rootes Distributors and their Dealers are able to offer
competent service by factory-trained mechanics, quick availability of
genuine parts, and factory-rebuilt units for speedy re-fitting.
t ♦
Designed for the roads of the world -proved on the roads of Australia
HUMBER. HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT
CONNER, KARRI ER, VULCAN, TILLING-STEVENS


I
m
* . Lr K
:
Hi
s.tk "
ms
n&fSW
To foster and develop ARTISTIC TALENT
the AUSTRALIAN WRITERS AND ARTISTS'
FEDERATION has made it possible for a
panel of leading professional Artists to give
you these scientifically prepared tests and
expert Criticism absolutely FREE OF
CHARGE and without obligation.
Send for the elaborate book "Art Ability Tests"—
and obtain an impartial and instructive analysis of
your chances of success in Commercial Art. If these
tests reveal that you have the necessary ability to
become an artist, you will receive on invitation to
take the Correspondence training of the A.T.I. The
decision to accept or decline rests,
of course, entirely with yourself.
AND, if you pass the tests, a
Magnificent Art Book—" The
New Commercial Art in
Australia" will be sent
to you as a Free Gift.
118 pages, 12*" x 10",
printed in full colour.
4
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE
50 Hotham Street, Melbourne, C. 2.
Please send me your illustrated book "Art Ability Tests",
also latest A.W.A.F. £2OOO Prize List, both without cost
and without obligation.
Bulletin, April, '53
NAME
ADDRESS
.STATE,
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3 h ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
m
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan SJ
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
FEATHERED
GIANTS
by HENRY G.
LAMOND
THE wind whistled with the
touch of winter in its
breath. It romped boister-
ously through the Mitchell-
grass, spun round gidyea-trees,
flattened a patch of cane-grass
and exposed a body sneaking
through it—a brown body which
snaked along the ground, slid
from shadow to shadow, merged
with until it had
travelled some distance from the
spot from which it had first
moved.
Then that thing rose to its
feet. It was a hen emu, and
she had left her nest and eggs
a hundred yards behind her
before she showed herself. She
was dark, almost black, her
plumage drab as it hung list-
lessly. She may have measured
a little more than five feet from
the top of her bald head to the
soles of her wrinkled and warted
feet. She, a brooding mother,
low in condition, might have
weighed about sixty 1 pounds. It
would seem by her actions that
she would leave her eggs for a
space while she ate and drank.
She strode through the grass,
occasionally pecking at a ripe
head; she went deliberately
towards the channels of the
river which were marked
by lines of coolibah-trees. Her
attitude changed when she
entered the billabongs: she was
nervous, eyed everything with
suspicion, analysed all sounds
and sights about her. She knew:
an age-old instinct warned her
that predatory animals once
lurked at waterholes, crouched
on limbs of trees, lay ready to
spring.
She was cautious. She
sneaked over the bank, slid down
to the water, and eased herself
into a drinking position as she
buckled at the knees. Then she
extended her hose of a neck,
scooped the top of the water
with her flat beak, lifted her
head, and let that spoonful
dribble down her throat.
I_TER head was so small it was
incongruous—it was only a
knob at the end of her neck, a
hinge on which to fasten the bills
of her beak, a place in which to
set her eyes. Brains! She had
no thinking apparatus-only
instinct. In comparison with
their sizes emus have the smallest
ratio of brains of almost any
bird.
The hen ladled-up several
scoops of water. She jerked
herself to her feet with a pro-
pulsive action, turned and shot
up the bank. That was the
danger-point in the days of the
sabre-tooth tiger; when an
animal came out from drinking.
That emu shot from a standing-
start when a leaf drifted through
the air and fell beside her; the
shadow of a circling hawk made
her race; she went with cata-
pultic jerks until she was free
of the channels and out in the
Mitchell-grass again.
She would eat. She went out
of her way on her return to her
nest so she might gorge on gooya
apples; she stripped clusters of
coongaberries ; semi - dormant
grasshoppers which clung to
stems of grass never woke again ;
a small lizard sunning itself
realised too late it was in an
exposed position. That hen,
though of the order of
herbivora, was omnivorous in
her selection of food.
She sank low in the grass, and
she slunk like a shadow when
she neared her nest That was a
bare patch of ground on which
a dozen great eggs were scat-
tered. They were olive-green,
dark, granulated, almost serrated
in their roughness, with outer
shells like rasps, and they were
nearing the point of hatching:
the laying had been completed
about sixty days previously.
Those eggs, rough and granu-
lated now, had been encased in
a loose and slimy skin when first
laid. That skin had shrivelled,
and formed the serrated surface
which enclosed each egg.
The hen sank to the ground
when she came near the eggs.
She hobbled along on her knees,
with her forelegs spread fan-
shape in front of her. She used
her legs as a funnel, or as the
wings of a yard, to gather the
eggs and slide them to a common
centre as she shuffled forward.
That may have turned the eggs.
The hen seemed satisfied with
the process; she lifted her head,
looked about her, lowered it
again to the level of the grass
and was invisible in her
immobility.
A FEW nights later wet little
bodies struggled from the
eggs, nestled against the hot and
naked thighs of the hen. She
twittered occasionally, lowered
her head, picked up discarded
half-shells and threw them clear.
She did not move for forty-
eight hours.
Then the emu rose, dribbled
her long feathers through her
beak, stood in the morning sun
with the grass swaying about
her. And beneath her, clustered
about her feet, active as ants,
ten zebra-striped chicks in
brown and pale cream peeped as
they played. ’
The hen fed as she moved
from the nest. The chickens
followed her example. She did
not teach them: they knew. She
strolled along, and her atten-
tion to her qhicks was most
casual.
An emu cock had telepathic
knowledge of that clutch of
chickens: he walked through a
clump of gidyeas and met the
hen as she fed towards him. The
male emu boomed deep in his
throat; he rutiled the short
feathers of his neck; the burn-
ishing of his bald head shone
like polished bronze. He
advanced, his rudimentary wings
quivering ; he stepped mincingly.
There was really no need for
all that posturing. The hen was
only too glad to relinquish her
children. She turned and left
them with no show of reluct-
ance. It was the Law. She had 1
done her duty.
The male bird fussed about
the chickens as busily as any
ducky hen. He would have
measured close on seven feet
when fully erect; perhaps have
tipped the scales at a hundred-
and-a-half ; he could fight like a
heavyweight champion; he
could defend himself against all
enemies; yet that feathered
giant, that fighting fury, fussed
about the chickens with all the
ardor of an old hen with a clutch
of ducklings!
Less than a couple of hours
after .the big fellow had taken
charge another male advanced
towards them. He reared him-
self to his fu]l height, boomed
deeply and erected his hackles.
Then he raked dust with his
claws and sent streamers of it
over his back.
T\ARKER in color than most
emus, the big fellow, known
to stockmen as Black Bull, did
not hesitate to accept the chal-
lenge given and implied. He
charged. His neck was out-
stretched, tail feathers bouncing
behind him, his absurd stumps
of wings held horizontally at
right-angles to his body.
The new emu shook to the
shock of the charge as Black
Bull hit him with his breast. He
swung. He was too late. Black
Bull, pivoting on a pin’s head,
leapt as he turned, rammed the
other when he was off-balance.
He staggered, recovered, did not
wait. Black Bull could have
those chickens. It was early in
June; many hens would be
hatching clutches before the
season ended in September:
other batches could be got with-
out the need to fight Black Bull.
He fled.
Black Bull watched him go.
He whistled in a stuttering
stream; he bent at the knees;
he spread his feathers ; he sank
to the ground. The chickens
nestled under him, safe in his
protection.
They met sundry adventures.
One day a man on horseback
decided to give them some
hurry-up. Black Bull led his
babies in flight. His neck and
body were parallel with the
ground; his wings flapped and
his tail bounced in sympathy
with the strides he took; he
arched his ankles, like a high-
stepping horse, each time a frac-
tion of a second before his toes
gripped the dirt; he left spoons
of dust floating at spaced
intervals in the air behind him.
When the horseman drew
nearer Black Bull dropped back
from the lead of the mob. He
timed things to a tick: he put on
speed, charged through his
clutch, split them as he ran. He
knocked odd ones kicking with
a swipe of his claws. He k divided
the mob. When he had been
through them his clutch was in
individual units, going in several
directions. Split like that, one,
possibly two, might be victims.
The mob was safe.
Black Bull stopped, boomed,
drew himself erect, and his little
eyes shone red as he turned to
the horseman. He charged. He
drove desperately, deliberately,
until he was within twenty feet
of the horse. Then his spirit
failed: he jerked as elastic does
when released; he shot off at
a tangent; he raced aimlessly in
great circles till the man was out
of sight.
The man had looked over his
shoulders several times. He had
not turned his horse to go back
towards the emu.
Black Bull was ruffled, nervous
and upset. It was two hours
before he whispered his broken
whistle which called striped-
chickens from under tussocks
and ground-inequalities where
they had hidden,
ANOTHER day, coming out
*** from water, a hissing of torn
air made the Bull turn quickly.
He was too late! An eagle had
struck, snapped out the life of
one chicken, and left its twitch-
ing body on the ground to suit
her convenience later.
Nine chickens followed Black
Bull when he left the waterhole;
they clustered round him,
chirped endlessly, snuggled
under him when he sat and
spread himself.
Another day he failed to
notice a red figure which
harmonised .with the log behind
which it was lying. That red
something glared at the big emu
as he passed ; it stretched one
leg, unsheathed claws, tensed its
muscles as it showed as a wild
tomcat. A ripple ran over that
cat’s body as it crouched to
spring. Its eyes glared red;
bared teeth glinted under drawn
lips; its tail twitched in its
excitement.
The chickens played as they
followed their leader: poked
into strange places, nibbled at
stems of grass, tossed twigs. One
stopped to peck at a pebble.
And in that flick of time, while
it prodded the pebble with its
beak, a red torpedo shot through
the air, teeth shining, claws
splayed, hooked talons striking!
The chicken went down with


A Big Powerful Australian
from A FAMOUS FAMILY!
fs
Here's the truck that's really packed
with power from front bumper to
rear axle model AL-162, biggest
Australian-made International truck.
It is powered by the six-cylinder Silver
Diamond engine which has proved itself
tops for long life efficiency and fuel economy
under really tough operating conditions. This
Silver Diamond engine balanced with the sturdy
synchro-shift transmission and hypoid two-speed
axle offers truck operators the best truck value on
the market today. Like all models of International
trucks, the model AL-162 features the "roomiest
cab on the road" deep * wide cushions, extra
head room, knee room, leg room, full-width seats,
"natural angle" steering, ail round vision and more
ventilation.
Get the facts from your International Harvester
branch, metropolitan or country dealer. They'll
show you why international is your best truck
investment.
yiik
mm
M
r ±
t
Internationals have proved themselves
in quarries, sand pits and
building excavations, on
highway construction
and other heavy
haulage jobs.
df
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS are
CHAMPIONS ON ANY JOB
There's a size for
every load and a
type for every
operation.
mm
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
17 1-2 0 5 CITY ROAD, SOUTH MELBOURNE. TELEPHONE MX5131.
a gasp, its head driven back into
its shoulders, its neck broken, a
red cat astride its body, teeth
gritting on its backbone."
Though there was no sound,
something impinged on Black
Bull’s lack of brain: he spun
without warning, and eve
before he knew what he w
doing the feathers were erect
his neck, his wings held rigic
his whole attitude denoting 1
had cleared for action, t
charged. He smashed blind
with his splayed feet. His weav
ing head on its neck resemblec
a snake about to strike.
The cat spat and moved jusi
far enough to allow a blunde
ing foot to ripple the fur of h
coat as it struck. He hissed as h
spat again and turned to me
a new charge. Then, when th
claw above him was only a frac
tion of an inch from his skin
he darted from the body of h
prey and tried to hide.
Black Bull altered the direc
tion of his charge, snapped h
stride short in mid-air, swun
and followed the full-tailed fury
It had no doubt of the death i
feathers behind it: it doubled
spun on itself, spat, hissec
dodged destruction a doze
times. It was shortwindec
filled with nervous energy. Th
emu did not seem to have an
nerves: it was tireless as it wa
implacable.
The cat seemed to come ou
from beneath the emu’s talons
It gathered itself together, spran
for the trunk of a coolibah.
Black Bull struck at the ca
while it was in the air. H
missed by a fraction. Like th
echo of his first shot his othe
claw sliced the bark of the tre
an inch above the cat’s head. I
ripped on down the trunk.
The sap oozed from the cu
bark faster than a man couk
snap a finger; but before one
drop had gathered in readmes
to fall red blood poured from
the cat’s body where the tearing
talon had entered its shoulder
ripped down the ribs and dis
embowelled a writhing body
that screamed on the ground.
Black Bull hesitated only a
long as it would take a man to
blink an eye. He shuffled hi
feet, put them together, drew one
toe over the other and sent i
crashing to the ground with
snapping action. The chickens
knew immediately what tha
meant: they dived for shelter
hid under tussocks, lay beside
logs, resembled stones as they
crouched on the ground, eyes
shut, long necks flat, bodies still
Black Bull went mad. He
danced on the body of the cat
he tore it with his talons; he
pecked it with his shovel of a
beak ; he tossed tufts of hair in
the wind ; he raked it until even
his great anger was satisfied!
until his beak panted for wind
Then he whistled to his clutch
gathered them about him, and
led them on the plains to feed.
I)Y the end of September,
winter finished, Black Bull
had six young emus in his
family. They were at an
awkward age, half - grown,
similar to a boy going into long
trousers or a girl afflicted with
pimples on her face.
Other emus gathered in mobs.
The breeding-season had ended,
lust had left them ; they mingled
and parted again without regard
to order. Only the male birds in
charge of clutches of half-grown
chicks remained aloof from the
communal gatherings. They
lived apart. With others there
was an air of go-as-you-please.
Prodigious eaters, they roamed
far, ate omnivorously.
Summer came with a rush.
That heat sapped what little life
was left in the grass, dried water-
holes and scorched pastures.
The emus, of all animals, were
first to suffer. Though they
were bred for generations in a
land subject to droughts and
dry periods, they were always
the first to go under. Being so
prolific they could afford to die
off in numbers. They were com-
paratively long-lived—ls to 20
years with an annual increase
of a dozen or more. That gave
them a wide margin. The use of
the country for stock purposes
may have upset their balance.
The stock may have drawn on
the feeding resources of the
emus ; fences to hold stock, par-
ticularly sheep, so restricted the
movements and free range of the
birds they could not accommo-
date themselves to the cramped
areas allowed them by paddocks.
By the end of December, with
a baked earth gasping in open
cracks under a searing sun, emus
trailed disconsolately over the
downs. Their feathers were more
listless than before, dull with a
lack-lustre which advertised their
misery. Any bird careless of
approach to a drying waterhole
never had a chance to learn
wisdom and benefit by it: they
died where they were bogged.
Once those splayed feet broke
through the top crust they were
doomed; the long shanks slid
down without resistance, down
till the emu was bogged to
the thighs, no chance of
recovery, doomed to die
miserably.
And while emus walked over
the downs in bedraggled
costumes, moving with dark
plumes like animate hearses in
brown, kangaroos and other
animals had done little more
than begin to feel the pinch.
Many of the emus, in pad-
docks other than that in which
Black Bull lived, tried to wander
in search of fresh pastures.
Many of them, when they met
a fence between paddocks,
walked up and down that aim-
lessly, no interest in life,
obsessed only ,by the wish to get
through to the other side. Some
tried to jump. They could not
jump. Their legs were entangled
in wires; held in a virtual trap.
they died there. Others
literally walked to death —they
patrolled the fence, looked over
the wires, turned at the corner
and walked back again until,
worn with hunger, weak with
thirst and foiled hopes, they fel
in their tracks, unable to rise to
their feet again.
Odd ones got across the fence
As one stockman said to his
mate “I see that big ol’-man emu
we call Grey Ghost has got into
th’ same paddock as Black Bull
There’ll be somethin’ doin’ if
them two giants stages a free-
for-all.”
GHOST was a notec
emu. He was lighter in color
than Black Bull; about the same
age, with similar ambitions anc
much about the same size anc
weight. Unlike Black Bull, he
did not have any domestic
responsibilities: when he fell
over the fence, twanged the wires
and raised a flurry of dust on the
other side, his clutch of
youngsters had fled till they
dropped from exhaustion.
The delayed rains came with
a rush half through February.
The earth responded immedi-
ately: grass and insects came
while the rain was still falling.
All birds which nested split their
large flocks, paired in couples
and went about the great busi-
ness of life.
The emus took longer to
respond. The young ones went
forward with a rush ; the older
birds appeared to go through a
process of moult. That was no
trouble when there was abund-
ant feed and easy living.
Late in April, when a passing
whiff of wind brought messages
of the coming winter, emus suf-
fered temporary insanity. Birds
in new costumes lifted their
heads, yammered with stuttering
bills, capered grotesquely, raced
aimlessly, played without reason.
Black Bull, darker than usual in
his new dress, his helmet of
burnished bronze aflame with
scarlet flashes, felt the urge of
the season the cold wind brought
to him. He watched his clutch
of six playing a game of chase-
me-Charlie which was evolved
on the moment as an indication
of their desires. He looked,
analysed, came to a conclusion.
One flick of a second Black
Bull was a stationary statue;
the next, his head outstretched,
feathers stiff, wings flapping, he
charged his mob. He chivvied
the three young male birds:
worked them out from the
others, drove them with hammer-
head smacks of his beak.
They knew! They realised
the time had come for them to
go. Sex, and the knowledge of
it, had come to the hens. The
young males, with but glimmer-
ings of the urge in the distance,
would not, with odd exceptions,
be ready to mate until next
winter, their second year. They
knew they had to go. They
went.
One of the three dared to
come back to 'the mob. Black
Bull met him with a rush which
knocked the young fellow over
and rolled him on the ground.
A slashing stroke of the big
fellow’s talon lifted a ribbon of
feathers from the youngster’s
flank. He knew then! He
went. He did not return.
Black Bull approached his
young hens. He stepped minc-
ingly; he arched his neck, on
which the feathers stood stiffly;
he boomed; his stubs of wings
twitched as he walked.
The hens were struck by a
new shyness: they danced away
from him; they raced, stopped
dead, came back in erratic zig-
zags. One held her beak high,
pointed to the sky, stuttered con-
vulsively. The three of them,
by common consent, started a
mad race in which Black Bull
joined; they ran in circles, inter-
lacing as they raced. One per-
mitted Black Bull to approach
her and twine his long neck with
hers, while her wings quivered.
She pulled away suddenly, stood
and stared at a clump of gidyea
through which a strange emu
stalked.
It was Grey Ghost.
of those old males
11 required any interpretation
of the other’s intentions. The
blood ran red and hot in both
of them ; desires were rampant;
it was the mating season.
Both birds eyed each other,
necks outstretched, impatient
feet shuffling. The hens twittered
weak whistles in their nervous
excitement; the males boomed
with deep breaths.
Suddenly, fired by the same
impulse, both birds charged
from a distance of about thirty
yards. They slung dirt behind
them, left trails of dust in the
air, dragged the earth to them,
to cut it into ten-foot slices as
they threw it back. They
charged straight, true, without
deviation or evasion.
When inches separated them
both birds seemed to rise in the
air so as to bring tlieir talons
into play as they struck. Feathers
floated and the earth shuddered
(i Continued on page 28)


you wanl ay *
boiler plan! ?
BABCOCK
cute
Whether your requirement is 1000 Ib./hr. of process
steam at 100 Ib./sq. in., saturated ... or steam for
100,000 kw. of power at 1500 Ib./sq. in., and 1050 °F.,
from one boiler unit, BABCOCK can supply it; and
not only the boiler but also all the essential auxiliary
services —coal handling plant, ash disposal equip-
ment, pipework ... in fact, a complete steam raising
plant, designed and manufactured entirely within
the BABCOCK organisation, backed by 75 years of
experience in steam engineering and by a world-wide
service.
Manufacturers of: Water-tube Boilers; Super*
heaters; Economisers; Air Heaters; Water-wall
Furnaces; Pulverised Fuel Plants; Travelling Grate
Stokers; Spreader Stokers; Soot Blowers for Manual
or Automatic Operation; Pipework; Attemperators;
Coal and Ash Handling Plant; “Hydrojet” Ashing
System; “Hydrovac” Dust Handling System; Cranes,
Transporters, Conveyors, Wagon Tipplers.
Equipment for: Oil and Gas Burning, Waste Heat
Utilisation, Bagasse, Black Liquor and other fuels.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
Divorce Notice
TO ALICE LENA SOLTUGGIO address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band DOMENICO SOLTUGGIO has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of separation for
a continuous period of not less than five
years immediately preceding the com-
mencement of this action there being no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being
resumed If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within forty (40) clear days from
the date of this publication In default
of your so doing the case may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. Dated this 23rd day of March,
1953.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
DAVID WALSH & MAZZA, of 23 Bar-
rack Street, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Bat Me
soaiethiaq
Matism/
S)
V
jL':H
OH JILL, I'M
SO UNHAPPY!
808 USED TO BE
MY BEST MAN -
BUT LOOK AT HIM
NOW/
.M;
HULLO SALLY-
HOW LOVELY
YOU LOOK!
BUT WHY
SO BLUE ?
WHAT HAVE I DONE TO
MAKE HIM TREAT ME LIKE THIS ?
'te~'
"sally,
FORGIVE ME-’
BUT WHAT YOU
SHOULD DO IS
fSEE YOUR DENTIST,)
A80UT....
BAD BREATH/
SALLY S£eS HSR DEHT/ST
NOW ITS WEDDING- BELLS
r SCIENTIFIC TESTS
PROVE THAT, IN 7 CASES
OUT OF 10, COLGATE'S
REMOVES THE CAUSE
OF BAD BREATH .
IT ALSO HELPS TO ,
STOP TOOTH /-"‘I
DECAY, y
FOR 808 AND ME -THANKS
TO COLGATE OENTALCREAM!
r
/V
49
O
\
5
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved and
accepted home method of
oral hygiene known today.
Fes, and two years’ re-
search showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay
for more people than ever
before reported In denti-
frice historyl No other
dentifrice offers such
proof—the most conclu-
sive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type.
OSE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
\S TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
✓ WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH \
"S AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Itavß
Buy the Big
Family Economy Size
America’s Largest,
i’s Largest, the World’s Largest Selling Dental Cream
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words o' verse “My Mother” by
Adele Hodgson beginning:
He gathered all the dewdrops from the
grass
The silver tinted shades from evening
skies.
—5482.
Bulletin staff man, wife, two
children, wants furnished or unfur-
nished flat or cottage, Sydney, sea-
side or Harbor suburbs preferred.—
5481.
Copies of “Royal Australian His-
torical Society Journal, Vol. 1, No. 8;
Vol. 22, No. 5; Vol. 23, No. 4;
“Historical Studies” 7,9, 15; also
any local or district histories.—s4Bo.
Information Sought
I am a female, aged 31, and wish
to learn hairdressing with a view to
opening a hairdressing saloon in N.
S. Wales for men. How can I learn
the trade?
The only means of learning hair-
dressing (male or female) is by serv-
ing a four-years apprenticeship. On
completion of this period the appren-
tice makes application to the Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry, Sydney,
to be licensed, and undergoes a trade
test by a Government-appointed
examiner. No person (except an
indentured apprentice) can work at
the trade unless registered. The
apprenticeship age is from 15 years
onwards, but from 21 years, as in
your case, it is exceedingly difficult
to secure employment as an appren-
tice because the wage paid to a
major must be the basic wage (either
sex), which is much higher than the
apprentices’ wage. Another difficulty
facing a woman wishing to learn the
male trade is that men .are not favor-
able to women doing such work.
There are only three or four women
in New South Wales doing men’s
hairdressing.
* * * *
Is the use of kerosene-emulsion or
washing-soda recommended for the
control of white wax scale?
Kerosene-emulsion is not recom-
mended for white wax scale control
as it is not effective against the pest.
The recommendation is white-oil
applied to the trees about the middle
of December when “crawler” activity
of the scales is at its height. A
correctly timed spray is not expensive
and avoids additional sprays. Wash-
ing-soda is used to control scale infes-
tations, but is vised as a spray and
not as a soil treatment, which would
of course be useless against a pest
which infests the leaves, twigs, etc.,
of the tree. We have posted a leaflet
on white wax scale which sets out
in detail the control measures and
life cycle of this pest.
* * * *
Under what section of the Com-
monwealth Constitution does the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission
derive Us authority. Was the original
section ever amended by Referendum
to cover broadcasting activities?
Section 51 of the Commonwealth
of Australia Constitution Act pro-
vides—“ Parliament shall, subject to
this Constitution, have power to make
laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth
with respect to Postal, telegraphic,
telephonic, and other like services.”
Broadcasting is considered to be a
“like service” and the Australian
Broadcasting Commission Act was
passed in 1932. This Act was
amended in 1940, but repealed in
1942 when it was replaced by the
Australian Broadcasting Act 1942.
This latter Act was amended in 1946,
1948 and 1951 and is now known as
the Broadcasting Act 1942-1951.
There has been no amendment to the
section of the Constitution Act and
in view of its terms no referendum
was necessary.
* * * *
What do the initials (1) SOS, (2)
G.I. stand for?
(1) SOS, the signal-call for distress,
derives from the Morse-code signals
for the letters s-o-s; it was adopted
by the International Radiotelegraphic
Convention of 1912 for use by ships
calling for help, similarly used by
troops, etc. SOS is a code signal
only, and is not an abbreviation. It
was adopted because it was easy to
transmit and distinguish. Officially
there is no phrase, such as “Save
Our Souls [or Ship],” for which the
letters stand. (2) All U.S. Army
stores and equipment are stamped
G.I. —Government Issue. The letters
were used facetiously by the American
soldier to describe himself, and
became the accepted term for him.
* * * *
(1) When was the testimonial-match
for Bradman played■? (2) Result of
the game? (3) What did Bradman
receive from it?
(1) It was played in Melbourne,
Dec. 3-7, 1948. (2) Sir Donald (he
was knighted in the following New
Year’s Day honors) led one side,
Hassett the other. The match was a
tie. Hassett’s XI 406 (Lindwall 104)
and 430 (Hassett 102); Bradman’s VI
434 (Bradman 123, Meuleman 100)
and 9-402 (Tallon 146 n. 0., Morris
108). Bradman’s century was his
117th in first-class games (he scored
10 in the second innings). (3) Total
gate receipts were £9424; entertain-
ment-tax took (£l9BB, but donations
took the final cheque up to £9342 —
three times as much as received by
any other Australian from a testi-
monial.
Brief Answers
H.S.: Write Secretary, Forestry
Commission of N. S. Wales, Box
2667, G.P.0., Sydney, for a copy of
“Price List of Trees and Shrubs.”
L.A.M,: Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.... .C.R.: You Have a Point
There try Eric Partridge, is a guide
to punctuation. The book was pub-
lished by Hamish Hamilton, London.
J.L.: Frank J. Hardy’s Power
Without Glory was reviewed on the
Red Page of The Bulletin of
September 27, 1950, under the title
“Novels of Politics” F.D. ; Writers
and Artists’ Year Book, published
annually by A. and C. Black, London.
... .T.S.: See “The Strange Case of
Harry Morant” in “Biblionews,”
Vol. 6, No. 3 (March, 1953) obtain-
able from W. Stone, 64 Young-street,
Cremorne R.J.K.: The Com-
munist Technique in Britain by Bob
Darke, published by Collins, London.
....R.M.K.: Write G. W. Lilley,
Registrar of Race' Horses, 6 Bligh-
street, Sydney S.T.A.: Aboriginal
Decorative Art (price 4s. 3d. posted),
' obtainable from the Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney....
M.C.: Write Australian Hospitals
Association, Challis House, Martin-
place, Sydney C.R.G.: A descrip-
tion of this case-moth, which occurs
at Bogong High Plains and Mt.
Hotham (Vic.) and Mount Kosciusko
(N.S.W.) is given by Mr. C. G. Oke
in the “Memoirs of the National
Museum of Victoria,” 15, 1947, pp.
178-179. In the larval state it feeds
on the snow grass, Poa ccespitosa G.
Forst., and McKeown in “Australian
Zoologist,” xi (4) 1951, 337, records
it destroying snow grass at Pounds
Creek, Mt. Kosciusko.,. .W.A.G.; A
first edition, signed by the author,
would be worth a guinea; a fifth
edition would be only worth a fey'
shillings S.L.D.: Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald’s Between Two Tides was
reviewed on the Red Page of The
Bulletin of November 5, 1952,
under the title “Story from Tonga.”
P.T.G.: “Writers World,” a
news-sheet issued by the Australian
Writers’ Professional Service, Box 28,
Post Office, 380 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. .. .P.T.D.: Impossible to
clean them by guillotine-trimming
because of the covers and binding;
the only way is to rub the closed
edges with art gum, india rubber, or
dry stale breadcrumbs. Tinting may
be carried out with diluted colored
inks, water paints, or simple dyes,
but the leaves must be tightly com-
pressed to prevent color seepage-
even so, some papers are unsuitable
for tinting. Good books should be
kept in glass-fronted cases to exclude
dust....S.S.: Take 2 parts crystal-
lised chloride of iron, 2 parts solid
chloride of antimony, 1 part gallic
acid, and 4or 5 parts water: dissolve
the chemicals in the water. Apply
with a small sponge, and let dry in
the air. Repeat two or three times,
then wash with water and dry. Rub
with boiled linseed oil to deepen the
color. Repeat until satisfied with the
result. The barrel must be very clean
to take the process. There is another
process carried out by heat in a
muffle, but it is beyond the amateur’s
skill 5.8.: Write “Authors’ and
Artists’ Marketing Guide,” Box 28,
P. 0., 380 Collins-street, Melbourne.
M.I.: Parliament House, Can-
berra, was opened on May 9, 1927,
by the then Duke of York, ’who
became King George V1....C.M.:
Write Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 281 George-
street, Sydney S.R.: The letters
P.C. (Privy Councillor) take pre-
cedence before all other Orders and
Decorations with the exception of
V.C. (Victoria Cross) and K.G.
(Knight of the Garter).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.McC.: Couldn’t make it out
V.A.M.: He could have explained
that his mother was dying instead of
letting the customer babble on and
then throwing it in her face L.S.:
Why spoil a fairly interesting lead-
up with a noble-granny-rescues-
grandchildren-from-falling-tree con-
clusion? M. 1.: Didn’t quite seem
to make its point 8.H.: Hardly
enough to it... .M.P.K.: Violence,
violence!... .E.1.W.: The impatience
of the secretary with the old man,
necessary to the old man’s refusal to
talk, is overdone and unlikely in the
circumstances... .K.G.L.: Too much
about too little N.J.D.: Just the
usual, poor old punch-drunk boxing-
story J.A.: All those pages and
nothing but a clip to hold them
together E.V.C.: Wrong tone....
C. : Too far away for us to read
your writing M.M.8.: Sorry
A.E.: We felt too much as though
we were eavesdropping on these little
conversations you were having with
yourself M.G.: Only an anecdote.
G.O’D.: We missed whatever
you were trying to convey P.S.;
Too long for its quality W. 8.:
Not quite H.R.R.: Not bad, but
not good enough L.R.D.: Good
enough but don’t like the subject.
W.S.F.: Not enough story for
the length... .P.F.: “Dan Moloney’s
Mare” fell down at the last lap
S.M.L.: A drab and neutral tale
D. : The ponderous arguments
do not help to make it marketable.
. ...V.8.: Attempt to put Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s “The Sick Stock-
rider” into prose was a dismal failure.
A.A.J.: “The Outback Romeo”
was shown to the door D.C.:
Sorry, but fortune did not smile oa
your maiden effort S.M.W.: When
last seen Sally was asleep in the
basket L.T.C.: Doesn’t that young
man do anything but watch the sea-
gulls? H.R.: It has all the signs
of having been written in a tremen-
dous hurry D.J.: Still puzzled as
to who was the mysterious horseman.
W.B.W.: There is no demand for
that style of story these days —
R.S.: Paddy Ryan is just an echo of
John O’Brien’s Hanrahan... .H.A.E.:
Not a winner among the lot of them.
L.G.: We will try to struggle on
without your masterpiece W.R.:
We feel that more could have been
done with that mermaid in the billa-
bong T.P.: The first four pages
could be cut to a paragraph and the
last two to a sentence S.C.H.: It
merely made us thirsty G.R.A.:
We’ve had a shoal of coronation
poems, but yours is the first corona-
tion story. Alas, it is a f10p....
V.W.: That tender piece of prose is
more suited to a woman’s paper
H.S.N.: You can’t write like Anthony
Hope in our pages S.S.M.: Found
the story incredibly 'dull, but the
family tree was neatly drawn
E.H.: The opening sentence, “As all
the world knows, gelatine is a jelly-
like substance made from hooves,
animal bones, etc.,” damned it from
the start M.A.R.: Mostly gib-
berish P.C.: Nothing can be done
to bring it back to life since it had no
life in it B.B.: A detailed descrip-
tion of grandfather’s rheumatism
makes cheerless reading S.McK.:
Your scapegoat might have strayed
from a nineteenth-century novelette.
....G.J.: That queer character is
making his way back across the
Nullarbor Plain S.D.W.: “In the
enclosed story I have §et out to prove
something which is true by showing
all the steps of the hero’s reasoning.”
Out... .H.0’8.: A literary toddler.
K.T.: We are not wanting any
vampires, thank y0u....R.W.: Must
you remind the reader so frequently
that a “soft, gentle breeze” was blow-
ing? M.McD.: It made for the
w.p.b. as if by instinct E.C.J.:
About all that emerges from that
vast output of words is that Henry
disliked rhubarb and grew rhododen-
drons. Now awaiting your story about
Peter who hated spinach and culti-
vated snapdragons G.K.: You can
call and collect the alcoholic acrobat;
also the deep-sea diver who wanted
to be a steeplejack.


Australian Historical Sketches
The Father of
Australia
By M. H. ELLIS
"7" HE title “Father of Aus-
f tralia” has been claimed
for many men —Phillip,
Macarthur, Macquarie
among them —but none de-
serves it better than the philo-
sopher and botanist Sir Joseph
Banks.
His is a fame which almost
died, but which has revived in
modern times. So far had his
prestige sunk sixty-six years after
his death that when his papers
were sold at auction in 1886 an
original manuscript of the
Voyage of the Endeavour
brought only £7 2s. 6d.; over 200
parcels brought only £lB2 19s.
This was fortunate for Aus-
tralia, since Sir Saul Samuel
acquired the great bulk of them
for N. S. Wales, and they now
lie in the Mitchell Library in
Sydney, a priceless collection
which would be fought for by
rich collectors from all over the
world in the improbable event
of their ever being offered for
sale.
Banks was in the truest sense
the Father of Australia. Not
only was he one of the first white
men to land on its soil, the man
who first truly conceived the idea
of colonising it, but he stood in
loco parentis to it till the day of
his death in 1820, interesting
himself in its welfare and its
progress, meddling parentally in
the management of its fleets,
advising continually, influencing
the appointment of its Gov-
ernors, and in the end treated
as parents are apt to be treated
by growing children—with off-
handed ingratitude and neglect.
Banks’s library and unique
botanical collections put to-
gether by himself and his emis-
saries on a score of voyages and
enterprises between 1768, when
he set out with Cook, and the
days of Macquarie are in the
Natural Science Section of the
British Museum, and the little-
dissected mass of papers and
letters connected with his acti-
vities exists in the Banks Papers
in the Mitchell Library and the
records of the Colonial Office ;
but not much is known of the
intimate life of the man himself.
His portraits show him in
youth as a rangy fellow with a
good head and a wide, generous
mouth and determined nose. He
was one of Lincolnshire’s gifts
to Australia, along with Flinders,
Bass, Milson and some more.
Even the date and place of his
birth are often wrongly given:
He was born on February 2,
1743, in Argyle-street, which
runs down from the present site
of St. Pancras Station, London.
His father was squire of Revesby
Abbey in Lincolnshire.
At nine he was sent to
Harrow, and at 13 to Eton and
then to Christ Church, Oxford,
an aristocratic course of study
usually guaranteed to destroy a
love of nature. But it seems
that while he was at Eton he
fell in love with the hedgerows
and the lanes full of wildflowers,
and learnt his first botany from
the women cullers of simples
whom he encountered in his
walks and who agreed for six-
pence a lesson to teach him
their lore.
Gerard’s Herball, found in his
mother’s dressing-room a
broken volume minus cover and
some pages—advanced his know-
ledge. He found Oxford a
botanical desert, with a professor
more given to somnolence than
to instruction; For a time the
University was treated to the
unusual spectacle of a professor
being driven by a strong-willed
pupil to teach. The professor
solved the problem without much
discomfort to himself by giving
his tormentor a letter of intro-
duction to John Martyn, Pro-
fessor of Botany at Cambridge,
the founder of the Botanical
Society, who supplied him with
a young instructor for himself,
whom he bore back to Oxford
in triumph.
When he came into his father’s
estates, valued at £6OOO a year in
1764, he was able to indulge his
bent, botanising with Lord
Sandwich, the First Lord of the
Admiralty, his neighbor, and
eschewing the Grand Tour for
wider voyaging, which began
when he was 23. Then he sailed
away as naturalist in the Niger,
a little fishery-protection vessel
commanded by Sir Thomas
Adams —“to the country of the
Esquimaux Indians to gratify
his taste for natural knowledge.”
On the desolate shores of
Labrador he made several
expeditions with Lieutenant
Constantine Phipps,* R.N., later
Lord Mulgrave, whose title
name is attached to a river and
a sugar-mill in North Queens-
land.
His journal of that voyage,
having been sold at Sotheby’s in
1886 for a few shillings, is now
a treasured possession of the
Royal Geographical Society of
South Australia. The plants
which he gathered formed the
basis of the British Museum’s
Banks Herbarium. And he
brought home from Lisbon on
the way a rarity which was to
change the whole nature of the
world’s traffic and many other
important things in time —
caoutchouc, rubber.
He found himself at 23 a
Fellow of the Royal Society,
and eager for new worlds to
conquer.
In 1768 off he went with
Cook, suffered all the hardships
of Cook’s first voyage, saw
Tahiti and New Zealand, sailed
up the east coast of Australia,
participated in all the heavy
pumping and exhaustion which
ensued when the Endeavour
struck on the Barrier Reef, lived
among the first group of whites
to inhabit mainland Australian
soil at the Endeavour River, and
was present when Cook took
possession of the Continent.
Botany Bay owed its name to
him.
It was 183 years ago this week
—April 19, 1770 —that Australia
was sighted just north of Bass
Strait. They sailed up the coast
till they reached Botany Bay,
and landed on April 29. Banks
and Solander were, with Cook
and his young nephew Isaac
Smith, the first whites to step
ashore on the east coast of the
Continent.
It was a landing which Banks
never forgot, for to a botanist it
was the equivalent of staking
out a claim to the world’s richest
goldmine. Never had so many
strange rarities come the way of
a natural philosopher on a single
morning. The banksia by its
name commemorates the event.
Thence they went up the
coast, were holed by the Barrier
Reef and careened their ship at
the Endeavour River, where
they saw their first kangaroo and
obtained the supposed native
name of it from the blacks.
Banks and Cook made the first
land expedition in Australia to
obtain a view of the approaches
to the river-mouth from a high
hill several miles from their
landing-place.
And so to old England, where
Fanny Burney’s father met
Banks at Hinchinbrook with his
old friend Lord Sandwich and
he was pooh-poohed by Dr.
Johnson, who sent him an
epigram on the Endeavour’s
nannygoat. It was translated
from the original Latin by
Boswell:
In fame scarce second to the Nurse
of Jove
This goat, who twice the world has
travelled round,
Deserving both her master’s care and
love,
Ease and perpetual pasture now
has found.
Breaking, for various reasons,
his resolve to go again with
Cook, Banks went north to Ice-
land with Solander, visiting on
his way the Isle of Staffa,
part of the domains of the
Macquaries, where he gained
naturalistic knowledge at the
expense of his skin, producing a
more than academic controversy
as to who imported Norfolk
Howards to the Macquarie
domains. The locals gave him
credit for the importation. He
wrote the earliest description ol
Staffa to be published, and he
sang with the Icelanders under
the shadow of Hecla, anc
brought home a huge pile ol
Icelandic manuscripts to present
to the British Museum.
This was his last adventurous
voyage. Now 34 years old, he
settled down in London to
become the mentor and patron
of the explorers and colonisers
He became president of the
Royal Society, which he
dominated for the rest of
his life. He planned Kew
Gardens on the basis on which
they exist today, and out of that
arose his securing of the
command of the Bounty for
Lieutenant William Bligh, who
had been on the unemployed list
for four years, when the Bounty
was sent to Tahiti to transplant
breadfruit to the West Indies
Thus Banks had more than one
finger in the start of one of the
gieatest naval adventure stoiies
of British history.
As early as 1779, when the
British Government was seeking
a new colony to which to trans-
port its criminals now that the
American colonies were lost,
Banks appeared before the com-
mittee inquiring into the matter.
Being asked where such a
colony might be lodged and be
able to maintain itself after the
first year with little or no aid
from the Mother Country, he
informed the committee that the
place which appeared to him best
adapted for such a purpose was
“Botany Bay, on the coast of
New Holland, in the Jpdian
Ocean, which was about seven
months voyage from Eng-
land .... that the climate, he
apprehended, was similar to that
about Toulouse, in the south of
France... .the proportion of rich
soil was small in comparison to
the barren, but sufficient to
support a very large number of
people..^.he did not doubt but
that oxen and sheep, if carried
there, would thrive and
increase.... the grass was long
and luxuriant, and there were
some eatable vegetables, parti-
cularly a sort of wild spinach ;
the country was well supplied
with water ; there was an abund-
ance of timber and fuel.”
He further thought that if the
people who went to Botany Bay
formed among themselves a civil
Government, they would neces-
sarily increase and find occasion
for many European com-
modities ; and it was not to be
doubted that “a tract of land
such as New Holland, which was
larger than the whole of Europe,
would furnish a matter of
advantageous return.”
It is noteworthy that he had
little doubt about the size of the
continent, though others in years
to come were not so sure. It is
certain that his recommendation
was largely, if not wholly,
responsible for the decision of
1786 to settle New South Wales.
He was involved in all the early
organisation, scientific and other-
wise, of the first fleets. He sent
out some of the first collections
of fruit-trees and plants. He
even at one period idly contem-
plated the idea of settling here as
a sort of overlord.
The correspondent of Bass and
Flinders, he it was who per-
suaded the Admiralty to equip
the Xenophon (renamed Investi-
gator) for Flinders’s great
voyages of discovery, and who
sent with him Robert Brown,
afterwards a famous botanist,
and Bauer as a botanical drafts-
man. It was he who sent Caley
to Australia and maintained him
here to provide future historians
with many a penetrating account
of facets of life and rebellion in
N. S. Wales—and also with very
tired eyes, for his calligraphy is
the minutest known in the period
of which he wrote.
It was Banks, too, who dis-
covered Allan Cunningham and
James Bowie, the latter a famous
collector in Africa; he, also,
who gave Mungo Park, the
famous African explorer, his
start.
The early Governors before
Macquarie reported to him
almost as often and more
frankly, and sometimes even
earlier, than to the Colonial
Office —it was to Banks that
Hunter sent the first account of
the discovery of the wild cattle
which had escaped from Sydney
in the first year of its settlement
at the Cowpastures.
In turn Banks acted as the
patron of all of them. And, as
with the Bounty expedition, so
with the Governorship of N. S.
Wales he was in bad luck when
he secured the appointment of
Bligh, to whom he remained
strictly faithful through all his
vicissitudes. His loyalty no
doubt was the warmer because
of his own dislike of John Mac-
arthur, who had crossed him in
opinion in the matter of sheep
in 1803-04, and whom he tried
to prevent 'from obtaining the
King’s Merinos, which became
the pride of the Elizabeth Farm
flock. The sale of those Royal
Merinos —the first pure Merinos
to come to Australia —was with
him a personal matter. He was,
in fact, the mhn who brought
the first Merinos to England
from Spain—the father of fine
wool in the Empire.
He was the benefactor and
unwitting aider and abettor pf
the unbelievable “king of Ice-
land,” Jorgen Jorgensen, who
was deflated from his swollen
condition of usurping dictator
by the arrival of a British sloop,
and who many years later
ended-up as a freed convict in
Tasmania and the terror of the
local bushrangers.
After the Bligh rebellion
Banks’s interest in Australian
affairs waned. Though he wrote
to congratulate Macquarie on
his appointment he subsequently
seems to have found him some-
what allergic to patronage. And
he himself by that time was
out of touch with Australian
realities.
After he died his memory was
so far neglected that save by one
or two it was forgotten where he
was buried, but in 1867 a tablet
was set up in Heston Church
(his burial place) to mark the
fact that he died on June 19,
1820, at Spring Grove, aged 77.
His old home in Soho Square,
London, is marked by a tablet
and known to many an Aus-
tralian frequenter of the foreign
restaurants which pepper that
part of London. But he has no
satisfactory memorial in Aus-
tralia.
Adam Lindsay Gordon’s Old Force
The South Australian Mounted
By JOHN GARDNER
r\ NOTHER link with Aus-
A—j trail a’s colonial tradition
| was broken just a month
or so back when the
South Australian Police Force
auctioned off swords, saddles,
tents and other equipment of the
State’s now almost extinct but
once famous Mounted Police.
Once, the Mounted Police of
South Australia carried the law
from Mt. Gambier in the south
to Darwin in the north, one of
the biggest police territories in
the British Empire. Now only a
small pity cadre, in modern
garb, is left.
Its uniform and traditions
were based on those of a British
dragoon regiment, as far as a
colonial police force could go in
such matters.
Young Englishmen of noble
birth out in the colonies for a
few years joined up for adven-
ture, companionship and health.
Adam Lindsay-Gordon joined
the Mounted Police in 1853, and
in my own day in the Mounted it
was once an experience to
handle among old documents
one concerning Gordon’s enlist-
ment. He must have been a
stripling then, a bare 9|st. or
thereabouts according to the
papers I saw. That was a stone
or more less than the minimum
in later years.
Gordon served for a couple of
years, some of the time at Mt.
Gambier, which district he
described in verse.
Some of the aristocrats who
were in the saddle a bit later
were the Earl of Sefton, Lord
Euston and the Hon. James
Burke, and others whose names
have been forgotten.
Cavalry officers from crack
English regiments came out and
served as instructors. There
were Captain Stanley Newton,
Captain Moulds and Captain
Gordon.
Dr. Parks was a trooper who
resigned and took a post in the
Edinburgh Hospital. Some blue-
bloods went home to claim
estates and titles. The Hon.
John Burke was a cousin to Lady
Kintore and used to visit
Government House.
There was a smile and a hand-
shake when the Duke ■of
Edinburgh in 1867 recognised the
sentry at the Mounted barracks
on North Terrace as a friend of
other days in England.
Sir Jenkin Coles, Speaker of
the South Australian House of
Assembly, was a gallant and
fearless young figure in the pig-
skin of the Mounted, too. The
name Coles is still synonymous
with horseflesh in the Southern
State.
Baron von Haedge was a
young German who served in
the ’eighties or ’nineties. He was
sent to the Northern Territory
for a turn when S.A. ran those
parts. The force was rich in
color and characters.
A decade or so ago the
Mounted Police as a separate
unit began to disintegrate.
Horses were replaced. The old
uniform was “modernised.”
Even the title of “Mounted”
Constable has been shorn from
the country police.
The auction referred to was
in a way a burial service. They
buried a country’s chance to
cling to some color and tradi-
tion that have helped to make
other countries great.
No wonder some old troopers
looked solemn and silent.


fiHM
a
m
I •
TW *:
v »y*»
3*2*
s
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
968 D-10.52
SPORTING NOTIONS
Last but one of Phar Lap’s
records has gone by the board.
No longer is his name engraved
on winning-time records, but his
his earning of £56,425 remains a
prizemoney record. Shannon is
highest winning Australian-bred
racehorse (£84,648), but of that
amount only £18,987 was earned
in Australia. The remainder was
quickly won in the U.S.
• • • •
Until last Saturday Phar Lap’s
3min. 49£sec. was the fastest 2\
miles run at Randwick and was
within 2£sec. of Australia’s best,
held by Marauder and made in
the 1938 Australian Cup. Phar
Lap made his time in the 1930
A.J.C. Plate as a three-year-old,
in which he was ridden by W.
Elliott, who later was successful
on the champion in America.
Phar Lap beat Nightmarch, one
of his keenest rivals of the
period, and Donald, a stayer of
no mean ability. On Saturday
Jan, who carried all before her
in the distance weight-for-age
events at the A.J.C. autumn
meeting, ran the Plate 2} miles
in 3.48 —a brilliant display of
even galloping only three-
quarters of a second putside
Australia’s best. She clipped a
second and a half from Phar
Lap’s Randwick record.
• « • •
Prior to the Randwick meet-
ing Jan was considered at best
a good middle-distance per-
former, but the Tommy Smith
stable retained her for the long-
distance weight-for-age races, a
smart tactical move, and a
realisation by Smith of the poor-
ness of the w.f.a. company,
especially in the absence of
Sydney Cup winner, Carioca.
Jan scooped the pool, winning
all three—the Autumn Stakes,
the Cumberland Stakes and the
A.J.C. Plate. Jack King, trainer
of Great Western, started that
modest galloper in all three
w.f.a. contests, and from three
minor placings lifted a total of
£lOO0 —a nice week’s work.
Though the trainer gets the
horse ready and fit to win, it is
the jockey who makes the most
money from success in an
important event. Some of the
leading horsemen earn more from
percentages in Cup events than
the ordinary man lifts in 12
months from working in an
office. The bare figures often
don’t mean a thing. Quite a
number of leading horsemen
have been given handsome
presents for winning a notable
handicap, such as the Melbourne
Cup—sometimes more than
£lOOO, in addition to the usual
fee. For less than 3} minutes in
the saddle (actual racing time)
in his Sydney Cup win on
Carioca Bill Cook’s fee exceeded
£5OO, or 5 per cent, of the stake-
money (£10,278). George Moore
was the most successful rider at
the meeting, with .six wins, and
his percentages brought him in
£676, Several of Sydney’s lead-
ing riders live in South Coogee,
and their stately and well-
groomed homes are striking,
especially Neville Sellwood’s new
and outstanding double-decker.
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith,
with nine firsts —a remarkable
achievement —earned £17,361 for
patrons at the Randwick meet-
ing, while Maurice McCarten’s
four winners and five minor
placings brought in £5373.
- *• • • •
Melbourne has a smart two-
year-old colt in Stannum, winner
of four races from eight starts.
Not many others of his age have
won four races this season.
Stannum, in latest victory, Caul-
field’s Orrong Handicap, started
equal second-favorite and beat
Olympic and Maxims, with hot
favorite Harmonist fourth.
Stannum’s victory was assisted
by the smart riding tactics
adopted by D. Coleman, who
employed similar means in win-
ning one of the other two-year-
old races of the Caulfield pro-
gramme (First Maiden) on
Roslyn, a 2-to-l favorite. Cole-
man kept near the rails most of
the way and dashed through
slight openings in the final stages
of each event. Roslyn is an
“Come on, jump! Come to Mummy!”
interesting first winner. She is a
chestnut filly by Neptune (imp.)
from Miramiss by Mid-Day Sun
(imp.) from Miss Mischief by
Early School. She cost 750gns.
as a yearling in New Zealand in
January of last year. Interesting
factor of her bloodlines is that
she is a direct descendant of a
famous mare, ScSptre, winner of
£38,283 in stakes, including the
Oaks and the St. Leger.
Windbag, winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup with 9.2 and various
other races, figures in the
pedigree of Sydennis, winner of
the Second Maiden Two-Year-
Old Handicap at Caulfield.
Raced by G. Brennan and
trained by W. Conway, Sydennis
is by Audentes (imp.) an English
winner related to Brueghel (imp.)
from Curiness by Curialis (imp.)
from Cimbennes by Cimbrian
from Ardennes by Sarchedon
(imp.). Relationship to Windbag
comes through Ardennes, who
was a half-sister to Windbag
(£35,939 in stakes) and also to
Loquacious (A.J.C. Metro-
politan) and dam of Feminist
(A.j.C. Metropolitan).
• * • •
The big racing scene now
transfers to Brisbane, with the
main Q.T.C. double —the Strad-
broke, seven furlongs (May 2)
and the Brisbane Cup, two miles
(May 4) —as focal points. Book-
makers with doubles already
have set a market, and horses
owned or trained in the south
are prominent in the lists. Red
Jester, Bob Cherry and Tarien
have been sharing Stradbroke
favoritism with the Brisbane and
former Sydney sprinter Highlea,
followed by Regoli and
Triclinium, while in the Cup the
locally-trained Basha Felika, vjho
has struck a purple patch of
form, has had a slight call over
Jan, winner of three weight-for-
age contests at the A.J.C. autumn
meeting, and Carioca, winner of
the Sydney Cup and various
other contests in recent months.
It will be specially interesting
if Carioca and Basha Felika
clash in the £12,000 Brisbane
Cup. Both won their first race
on the same day in Brisbane,
divisions of a Maiden Handicap,
at Tattersall’s fixture in August,
1950. Carioca beat Sea Edge
(Sydney owned) and High Bum
in the First Maiden at 5 to 2
while Basha Felika, at 6 to 4 on,
landed the • Second Maiden.
Both, too, were successful over
the recent Easter holiday week-
end. Incidentally, at his first
race start Carioca ran second to
Beau Gene in a Randwick
Juvenile event (November,
1949).
Q.T.C. handicapper George
Cain had a natural in Carioca
when setting a topweight for the
main treble (Stradbroke, Cup
and Moreton Handicap) of his
club’s big fixture in May.
Carioca’s 9.10 would not be
heaviest weight carried to victory
in the Cup. In 1925 Te Kara
won the Brisbane Cup with that
weight, and back in 1904 Fitz-
Grafton won with 8.3, and the
following year scored again with
lOst. Further back in Cup
history Battalion (1897) won with
10.3.
• • • •
French Echo, winner of the
A.J.C. Rous Handicap at
14 to 1, is a candidate for the
Stradbroke, in which he has
7.12, or lib. more than he scored
with at latest start. The colt
gave great promise last season,
when he won the A.J.C.
Champagne Stakes in the
autumn, but he failed to repro-
duce that brilliant effort until
Saturday last, and had got down
to within 111 b. of the limit.
Back to best form he could give
the Stradbroke a shaking.
Karendi (third) is going to be
something to bet on if produced
in a Graduation Stakes. French
Echo cost 900gns. as a yearling
and has proved a bargain even
at that price. He is by Genetout
(imp.) from Dawn Mary by
Denis Boy (imp.).
Gallant Archer has yet to
prove he can stay. He will get
his chance in the Q.T.C. St.
Leger, If miles, on May 2, but
he will have some solid com-
pany. The colt also is expected
to try the Brisbane Cup two
miles two days later( his present
weight is 7.11). He certainly
raced like a stayer at the A.J.C.
meetings, winning both the
Biraganbil Handicap, one mile,
and the Final Handicap, If
miles, in each case coming from
the fear of the field. Gallant
Archer also is engaged in the
Q.T.C. Moreton Handicap (May
9), with 8.3. As he carried 8.6
in his latest victory the stable
evidently must hold high hopes
of winning some of the rid\
Brisbane prizes.
* * *
There is nothing wrong with
the standard of playing in Syd-
ney, Auckland, Cardiff, or any
of the Rugby Union capitals,
but there is something seriously
wrong with the standard of selec-
tion. This has always been so,
always will be so, and contri-
butes not a little to the charm
of the amateur game, since (a)
no country is beaten on its
merits, and ( b ) it opens fascinat-
ing fields for discussion. With
Sydney’s season opened, and
selection for the South African
tour a short way off, Saturday’s
club games had a special interest.
In them, University, with a
back-line of internationals (ex-
cept half Fisher and winger
Barnard) looked a bit ragged
against Randwick, and went
down 17-11. For University
only one star, breakaway Dave
Brockhoff (Dave has been a
student quite a while) looked
good. Fullback Piper was sadly
short of a gallop—about four
years —and other backs were
mild to indifferent. Easts, led
by Perce Newton (who is 40),
impressively cleaned-up last
season’s premiers, Gordon,
22-9. Easts “pigs” were solid,
and halves Murray Tate and
John Bosler were outstanding.
Taking these two games as
pointers, it might seem to the
uninitiated that some players
have been overboomed, or have
slipped badly, and that selectors
in the past have gone too far
in preferring youth to current
form. And that these matters
will receive proper attention.
To think like this is to ignore
realities of the local scene, in-
cluding a certain innocent snob-
bery—which does not forbid the
reinstatement of League players
—strangely wedded to a dispro-
portionate influence by sporting
writers. Probably there is some-
thing in the opinion of the late
Dr. “Paddy” Moran (himself
captain of an international side)
that Union lost more than gate
receipts in the League break-
away.
• • • •
For all that, the standard of
sportsmanship is high, and
everyone concerned is so
amiably convinced he is acting
for the good of the game that
it seems unkind to criticise.
Despite some early-season wilt-
ing, standard of play is generally
high, and promises to be better.
The fortunate young men
selected to go to South Africa
will doubtless learn a lot, and
if some such young Galahad of
the game as was Trevor Allen
subsequently turns professional
—well, it’s all part of the charm
and comedy of the game.
In other club games East-
wood beat Manly (20-19), Drum-
moyne beat St. George (18-11)
and Northern Suburbs beat
Parramatta (18-nil).
* * *
Sydney High took the honors
and a bit over in this year’s
Head of the River, rowed on the
Nepean. They bagged the
eights and the first and third
fours, the second fours going to
Shore and in the fourth Shore
and St. Joseph’s dead-heating.
High’s win was a clear per-
sonal triumph for coach Frank
Nicholls. They were consider-
ably the lightest crew in the
eights and they got there by
sheer splendid rowing. The
coach was reported as rating
stroke Jim Woodcock one of
the best that High has ever had.
The same, at least, could be
said of the crew; it looked, in
fact, the best he has ever turned
out,
• • • •
Oddly enough, a comparable
High crew in the Nicholls
record didn’t win: it was beaten
by Shore; and it still says
enough for that school’s
perennial fine standard of row-
ing that its eight stayed with
the really topnotch High crew
all the way on Saturday and
went down by only about half
a length.
••' • •
As well as giving High’s crew
his usual polish of classy row-
ing, Nicholls this year seemed
to experiment (most success-
fully) in conditioning them.
Hitherto open rowing events in
which the schools take part have
mostly been given a miss by
High, This year the High crew
joined in these preliminary
trial-runs, and showed their
quality by winning both that
they had a shot at, the State
eight-oar junior championship
and the Riverview Gold Cup.
In the Riverview event they beat
Shore, and Saturday’s Head of
the River was a close repeat of
that race.
• • • •
Sydney “Sun” paid a striking
tribute to the coach:
High’s powerful rowing was a fin®
tribute to the coaching of Frank
Nicholls who also coached the win-
ning crew in 1948. He opened his
winning sequence at Rosehill last
month in Graduation Stakes com-
pany, then followed up with the
Yaucluse Handicap on. Doncaster
Day, and today won like a really
good horse.
Good horse is right!.


Rose Lindsay's Memairs
VISITORS TO SPRINGWOOD
WHEN Norman received
a letter saying that
Melba would like to
come to Springwood for
lunch on a certain date, signed
by Beverley Nichols, he was in
a quandary how to address his
reply. “Would you say that is a
girl’s handwriting?” he asked
rne -. I thought it could be, so he
decided on the safe course of
‘Dear Beverley Nichols,”
Madam was in a neat brown
tailored costume and a small
brown hat, and Beverley wore
brown. Madam was not well,
had a sore throat and her voice
was husky. “You know I have
been really ill, Norman, and you
know the things they say because
I have not been able to appear.
Why is it that, in my own
country, I get this, and in every
other part of the world I am
respected?”
“That is the greatest compli-
ment this country could pay
you,” Norman said to her.
Would you have their praise?
No! ”
At lunch Beverley was all
attention for Madam, while
Norman discoursed on
his interest in Beethoven.
Madam presented me
with a bottle of apricot
brandy. “It’s the best
French. Be careful of
it,” she said, and refused
to have any > with her
coffee.
But she did not like
my coffee. “You put salt
in this,” she said.
“Just a pinch,” I
agreed.
“Make me some more
—without,” she ordered ;
which I hastily and wil-
lingly did.
After lunch she said
she wanted to see the
watercolors, so we went
to the studio. Beverley
made her comfortable in
a lounge-chair and seated
himself in front of her,
resting his head against
her knees, while Norman
placed the watercolors
against the wall. She dis-
cussed each in turn with
interest, with Beverley
agreeing.
Pausing, Norman said
“My word, Beverley, you
are like Lord Byron.”
Madam leanbd over,
cupped his chin in her
hands, drawing his head
back and said “Yes, you
are.”
“Darling,” he said.
He was certainly a
handsome lad.
Just before she was
leaving I was not pleased
to see my impertinent
small daughter Jane
hurry up and thrust three
or four violets into Madam’s
hand, saying “Here, and don’t
throw them away.”
A week later Melba wrote and
said “Tell Jane that I have kept
and watered her flowers every
day till yesterday.”
One Sunday the Crookstons
called to tell us that we were to
have a visit from the Prince of
Siam. The Consul for Siam was
a friend of theirs and he had
sent them to arrange the visit,
and apparently to give me full
instructions, since I was told that
the two Princesses, mother and
daughter, liked cream-cakes and
to have plenty.
The Prince also liked cakes
and so did his personal attendant.
Then, for a very delicate matter,
should the Princesses ask for the
pot (which they were very likely
to do in the presence of anyone),
I was to lead them at once to
the bedroom and produce a pot,
“But we have no pots in the
house,” I said, and was told that
I must get one. So I bought one
locally and sent an order to
Sydney for dozens of cream-
cakes.
Mrs. Crookston offered to
help me through this social event
as they were coming with the
party. They arrived in two large
red, cars with a big red S on the
windscreen and right-of-way
signs.
The Prince was faultless in his
English suit, and wore elabor-
ately embossed spectacles of
silver and gold on his fine
aquiline nose, and spoke in
perfect English.
He carried a movie-camera
and turned it on to the party as
he talked. His secretary, loaded
with a large focal-plane-camera
and cases of plates, followed
closely behind the Prince to hand
out plates in quick succession,
and stacked those taken in cases.
The young Princess stood
about near the secretary and
many a smile passed between
them when Pa showed impati-
ence at slight delays. Once she
stuck her tongue out at her
father’s back when he was irri- '
tated at the secretary’s slowness.
Nellie Melba as Juliet, photograped by
Arnold Gentle in San Francisco.
He had been sent to England as
a boy to be specially trained to
become the Prince’s secretary,
the Consul told me.
The very small mother-
Princess was closely attended by
the tall, gaunt Consul, who inter-
preted her remarks as she smiled
at everyone, having only a few
English words herself. She wore
a beige silk dress with a large
flowered border to the skirt.
The tall Consul and the large
flowers made her look like a
small, mischievous girl.
The young Princess in her
simple white silk sports-frock
looked sophisticated and bored
as she walked around swinging
a red patent-leather handbag.
Jane and my other daughter
Helen were each presented with
a small colored comb in a case
by the Princesses-—evidently
bought specially for them. Jane
was lurking round near the
Prince in a suspicious manner
and was soon whispering to him.
Questioned later, she said that
she had asked him to send her
some matchbox tops when he
got home. She was a keen col-
lector at that time of these
strange things, and, many months
after, a large packet of tops
arrived for her from Siam.
Mrs. Crookston told me that
the Consul had told her that
there were only three men in
Siam eligible for the hand of the
exclusive princess, and two of
them didn’t like her. “Very
sad, isn’t it?” Mrs. Crookston
said. But I didn’t think so as I
was sure that the lady would
settle that to her satisfaction, if
not to the State’s.
The Prince talked of the
beauty of the English women,
complaining that the Siamese
had ill-shaped hands.
After setting the table for
afternoon-tea with plates of
cream-cakes all round, I called
them from the garden, fortun
ately returning to the table ahea
of them, for I found the cake
scattered in all directions anc
the best cream-puffs gone anc
our large Airedale beating
retreat, licking his jaws.
I hastily gathered up th
crumbs, rearranged the table
hiding the mutilated cakes in th
sideboard, and awaited th
guests, swearing to murder tha ;
dog later. After they left I tolc
Norman this joke, and he wa
furious because I had not warnec
him not to eat any cakes. “Dirty
fellow’s trick,” he said, Bu
what else could I have done?
.
Hugh D, Mclntosh invited us
to the lunch at the Ambassadors
which he gave to welcome Fritz
Kreisler. He followed the invi-
tation-card with an urgent wire
practically stating that, if
Norman did not come, the lunch
would be a flop. I believe that
all those invited received
similar wire.
So we travelled the fifty miles
to the Ambassadors, and stood
around sipping cocktails while
Mac got on with the receiving
and introducing of guests.
Maurice Mospovitch shared
honors with Kreisler as special
guests. Most of the others were
carefully selected by Mac with a
view to their usefulness for
publicity and so forth.
The editor of the “Herald,”
Brunsdon Fletcher, with Sydney
Ure Smith, the Cosgroves, a
leading light of the Bar, George
Lambert and many other useful
members of the art, music and
literary world, were in the fifty-
odd guests ; or maybe there were
nearer a hundred, as the Empire-
room did not 'have sufficient
table-space to seat them all.
So Mclntosh had all the men
at one table in that room and the
women at a round table in an
annex, with a ppsy to each
table, where their chatter and
laughter made conversation diffi-
cult for some of the wives, who
kept glancing across and hesitat-
ing in their talk to catch an ear-
ful of what was going on over
the way.
Mrs. Mac had Mrs. Kreisler
on her right, Mrs. Moscovitch
on her left, and I sat next to Mrs.
Kreisler ; on my right was Mrs.
Percy Hunter,
“If there had been no Harriet
Lee there would have been no
Kreisler,” I heard Mrs. Kreisler
announce.
“That’s a bit thick,” I re-
marked, Up to this I had been
unnoticed by Mrs. Kreisler, a
genial self-contained lady who
now turned full force on me and
said “I made him work. If I had
Further extracts from the unpublished
memoirs of Mrs. Norman Lindsay
not he would have dallied
through life.”
“No woman makes or mars a
genius. Your husband and mine
would have done their work
equally well with any woman.”
She turned to Mrs. Mac and
inquired my name, while I picked
at my peas with downcast eyes.
and Mrs. Hunter whispered to
me “Good on you!”
Mrs. Moscovitch was the
motherly type, and was telling
the guests that she sat backstage
knitting at every performance of
her husband’s, and was ready
with his scarf and overcoat.
“Wouldn’t you be more com-
fortable knitting at home?” I
asked.
“I have always done it,” she
replied simply.
After eating our food we
joined the men for colfee and
liqueurs, while Mac organised
the men for a group-photograph,
the flashlight boys arriving on
the tick. Mac seated himself in
the middle, with Kreisler on his
right, looking wonderingly at the
antics of George Lambert, who
was being very difficult and
refusing to be photographed
when he observed that he was
not prominently placed.
At Mac’s insistence that he
sij and not hold up the boys, he
said “Oh, well, if I must,” and
threw himself down in front of
everyone in one of his most
graceful attitudes a moment be-
fore the flash.
George never liked not to be
the extreme star of any gather-
ing. I remember his peevish
remarks across the table at the
farewell dinner to Gruner, when
he found Julian Ashton with
Gruner on his left and myself
on his right. Lambert came in
with Thea Proctor after all the
guests were seated and stood
fingering his place-card and
flicking it down, as much as to
say “What does this mean?”
before finally settling-down to
uSe me as a target till Julian
leaned across and said “I had
Rose placed here.”
“And stick that in your cap,”
I hissed across at him.
I had a great admiration for
Lambert’s work, but I was never
at ease in his company. I doubt
if any woman was.
At luncheon one day he
squashed me when I very
stupidly said that he never
should have left Australia,
Frankly, I was not at all con-
cerned. I was merely trying to
make intelligent, arty remarks.
“An artist belongs to no one
country. It’s a provincial out-
look to think so,” he said, ignor-
ing me till he finished his meal
and was leaving the table, when
he said “Would you like to come
to my studio and see my self-
portrait?”
I was delighted. He taxied
Sydney Smith and myself out
Randwick way. It was a
luscious bit of paint-work and
revealed Lambert as no other
artist could. '
He asked me to pose for one
of the figures in a war picture
that he was working on. I regret
to this day that I did not, though
I believe that he had little sym-
pathy with women as subjects.
About this date the Society of
Artists clique had formed the
Cavalier Club. Ernest Watt
was the moving spirit in this,
aided and abetted by Sydney Ure
Smith.
Thus the society of Sydney
mingled with the society of
artists—useful, no doubt, for the
opening days of the society exhi-
bitions ; but the social side be-
came more prominent in the
columns of the papers than the
pictures.
The Cavalier Club members
were elected, and Ernest Watt
roped in the society of Sydney.
A luncheon was held once a
week, first at the Cavalier
restaurant in King-street, then
it moved to the Ambassadors,
and later to the Hotel Australia,
the understanding being that a
table was reserved for the mem-
bers who could bring a guest
each. It was a nice little
arrangement, but soon lacked
artists’ attendance.
With Mclntosh at his dinner-
parties and Sydney Ure Smith
with the art parties, there was a
busy mingling of the arts. Syd,
of course, always had a view to
his “Art in Australia,” and
Mclntosh to the theatrical side,
so Syd took Norman and me to
see Pavlova. He assured Nor-
man that he must see the show
for art’s sake.
Norman later did a water-
color which he said was inspired
by the ballet. I still have it—a
light, airy mass of nudes on a
hillside.
After 'the show Syd suggested
that we go backstage to meet
Pavlova. . He did not say that
they had a flashlight boy wait-
ing to take a photo of her with
Norman, which quite embar-
rassed Norman. But Pavlova in
her white crinoline floated
gracefully down to a box next
to Norman and they were
(Continued on page 29)
Lovers' Meeting
Why is it,
that even with the cicadas* shrilling sound
so locust-loud it seems that heat has found
a voice, the land stays silent, the waters of its bay
stainless steel, and its trees quiet?
It is because there is nothing to say,
because there is nothing to be said.
Why is it,
that even with sunlight losing light
to the leaves in water-turn of bright unbright,
the leaves seem silent, and the crow-call far away,
mere hovering on the land’s quiet?
It is because there is nothing to say, #
because there is nothing to be said.
Why is it,
that even with the heart so loud with love
the rock so cool to hold the sky above
so frail to touch the light so fluid to stay,
that tongue makes words, but heart is quiet?
It is because there is nothing to say,
because there is nothing to be said.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


»
i
i.
■
5#
m
ill
IS
> « \
> '-i
v ‘
:vvSc-y.y ••••;■• :•>
♦ l"V>4 A '/''>
Ml
V V-
. “ ?, c\
THE BEST GOL BURNED
WESTERN SHOW ON THE AIR!
For laughs and songs in Western style, “Benning-
ton’s Bunkhouse Show” (Wednesdays, 7.30 p.m.)
• is the happiest and best half-hour on the air.
Some of the main reasons are pictured—topline
entertainers like (I. to r.) Lou Campara, Noel Judd,
Diana Davidson, Keith Walshe, Tim McNamara,
Neil Williams, Lily Connors, Queenie Ashton and
George “Sassafras” Foster.
“Bennington’s Bunkhouse Show” is brought to
you with the good wishes of the makers of
Bennington’s Irish Moss.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 3CV 6WB 6MD
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service
f
wmmM
Hope to see you next
Wednesday, folks I
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
mm
MU
Hi
m
m
mm
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE GIRL!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
He didn’t have to win her “by a whisker” ... it
was that smooth, clean-shaven look. Your shave,
too, will look good and feel good with Palmolive—
the Shaving Cream that gives better shaves to S
men out of every 4. Here’s the proof: 1,251 men
tried it ... 81% reported “Beards easier to cut!
... 76% said “Less razor pull” ... 71% said
“Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” Judge it yourself. Join the ranks of
successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL!
USE
BE SUCCESSFUL!
BANKERS
ps'e/iai
The shaving cream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAW/ERS
where to go to get the case, and
soon it was poked through the
opening where Nick stood wait-
ing to receive it. He lowered
it gently to the ground as Cain
swiftly clambered over the wall.
“The damn’ thing’s bound
with wire,” complained Nick.
“Got a pair of pliers on you?”
“No. Leave it to me.”
Cain was a man of action.
He raised the case above his head
and waited for a clap of thun-
der. As the thunder growled
and rumbled across the heavens
he hurled the case to the ground.
Nick winced, for the Japs weren’t
heavy sleepers. Unperturbed,
Cain used of thunder
before one strand of wire
snapped.
“One more thump should fix
it,” he panted.
Waiting, with the case raised,
he was suddenly silhouetted in
a bright flash of lightning.
“Now!” Nick said.
The case struck the ground
with a splintering crash—but no
thunder accompanied it. In-
stead, the metallic clatter of tins
rolling around the concrete
sounded in their ears like the
last trump.
“No cause for panic,” whis-
pered Cain as he began stuffing
tins into his shirt.
Nick followed • his example,
expecting to hear the pad of
guards’ feet at every instant.
Within five minutes the milk was
safely stored beneath the table
and the broken case disposed of.
T>Y this time it was Cain’s turn
to take over the shift. Nick
handed him the torch and golf-
stick. Feeling pleased with his
night’s work, Cain began his
rounds. Sauntering between the
sheds, his thoughts lost on a
Queensland beach, he was
startled to hear a loud clattering
and scuffling in one of the sheds.
Flashing his torch, he beheld in
its bright beam a pair of grin-
ning Chinese heads observing
him from behind a case in the
corner.
“Okay? Okay?” they asked.
“Hell, no!” he said hoarsely.
It was just after midnight, and
the Jap orderly-officer was long
overdue. “Scram! Nippon!
Nippon!” he warned.
Their only reply was to grin
more widely. The noise in-
creased; and shouts in the dist-
ance told him that the Jap
officer was on his way. So he
did the only thing possible to
save them and himself.
“Turn out the guard!” he
roared. The Chinese immedi-
ately vanished across the fence.
The prisoners awoke and
sleepily strolled outside. As
they did so they mingled with
the Japs tumbling from their hut
across the way. For five minutes
the darkness was full of figures
running wildly between the huts.
Entering the spirit of the game,
they emitted bloodcurdling yells
which caused further consterna-
tion. At the height of the
bedlam a figure in a long flow-
ing y/hite nightgown loomed
through the darkness.
“After him! ” yelled Nick,
picking up a handful of stones
and pelting the white-clad appari-
tion. They all knew Tassero’s
choice in sleeping attire, and as
he fled back to the safety of his
hut he was pursued by a barrage
of stones.
When the excitement subsided
Tassero emerged, showing great
satisfaction at the zeal of his
Australian guards. The Chinese
had got clean away.
/CONTINUING to enliven the
routine of the dump' Nick
found an old British service
rifle, minus the bolt, in a heap
of rubbish, and decided it would
be more appropriate than the
golf-stick to use on his watch.
The Japanese officer who was
suddenly halted one night by a
hairy Australian wielding a rusty
rifle almost died of shock.
Thereafter prisoners were re-
lieved of the duty of night-
watches.
Cain, a man of fastidious
tastes, learned that there were
several cases of Cuticura soap
in Nestle House. Thereupon he
insinuated himself into a work-
party detailed for Sikista’s
domain. Sikista’s nature by
this time was well known. It
was he who put the monkey in
the refrigerator and froze him
stiff. It was he who punished
another monkey which had pol-
luted his desk by sealing its
offending organ with sticking-
plaster. His treatment of ani-
mals matched his treatment of
men. Knowing this, Cain de-
liberately set out to take a bait
set by Sikista.
The bait was a carton of Cuti-
cura soap placed conspicuously
on a box in the middle of the
warehouse. From his desk
Sikista covertly kept the trap
under observation. Among the
workers was Cain, wielding a
broom and idly sweeping a pile
of dirt towards his objective.
Sikista noted with satisfaction
that only one man hovered
around the soap. His attention
was distracted momentarily—
and when he looked again the
soap had gone. Cain calmly
wielded his broom.
With a shout of anticipation,
Sikista took a small revolver
from his drawer and beckoned
Cain to him. In sign language
he asked Cain to hand over the
soap. Cain presented his
dumbest expression. Frantically
Sikista searched him from head
to foot, slapped his face and
kicked his shins.
No soap.
Back at the dump that night
a more affable Sikista came into
the room to borrow a cake of
soap. Cain kindly lent him one
of the three he had had con-
cealed up the leg of his shorts
during the search earlier in the
day. Sikista had his wash,
dressed and returned the soap,
together with a couple of
cigarettes, as a token of his
gratitude.
Then Nick broke his arm and
had to return to Changi for,
treatment. Tassero was away
at the time, and when he learned
of it he was genuinely dis-
tressed. Loading a utility-truck
with milk and meat, he drove to
Changi to inquire about
“Monkey’s” health. He knew
Nick by no other name.
The astute Changi men,
ignorant of Tassero’s real mis-
sion, sensed an opportunity for
barter. They noted the food on
the truck and hurriedly produced
a real monkey. Tassero fumed
and snorted, and the bewildered
prisoners shrugged their shoul-
ders in disgust as he drove off.
The corporal -in - charge
learned more than a little.
Gradually he tightened up his
control of the sheds, fitting
special locks and wiring all open-
ings. He knew the prisoners
kept contraband in their room,
and often prowled thoughtfully
between their beds, looking
under pillows and searching
haversacks.
The ship was beginning to
sink, and with the prescience of
rats, Cain and the boys left it
to sink. Their return to the
Great World followed within a
week of Nick’s departure for
Changi.
Both Nick and Cain are thriv-
ing in Queensland; some day ft
might be revealed how they
managed to retain their heads
over the years that followed
their departure from the Great
World.
to the impact. A mighty
“woof!” of expelled wind came
from them as they rebounded,
hit the ground with their feet,
bounced and sprang forward in
one action.
Their steel-shod talons were
groping blindly, reaching for a
grip; each bird pressed hard
against the other ; some instinct
of bygone days prompted each
to-reach across the other’s back,
take the useless wing at the base
and hold it tight. The free wing,
useless as a feather-duster in
combat, swung foolishly, aim-
lessly, and tried to buffet with
all the strength of a smash from
a butterfly’s pinions. The one
on the far side, nullified by the
grip of ‘the beak, swung nerve-
lessly. In its way, that grip,
apart from stifling aggression,
served as a grappling-iron to
hold the combatants together.
They separated—and it must
have been by mutual consent.
They stepped back deliberately,
carefully, gingerly, feeling the
ground, testing it before entrust-
ing it with weight, and neither
bird took his eyes from the other
as they backed.
They charged again. No
evasion, no variation. A
war of attrition. The idea
may have been to weaken
the opponent, lay that fellow
open to a stroke from the
talon. They crashed to-
gether as they met. They
locked as they had done previ-
ously, and they swung as they
wrestled. There was a form of
science attached to it: each
strove to push the other back
and unbalance him; and they
used their strength and weight
skilfully as they did so.
After several charges and
clinches the hens twittered as
they gained courage to ‘take a
closer view of the battle. They
came with staring eyes, stutter-
ing bills, craning necks,
frightened starts and timid re-
turns. Young as they were, in-,
experienced as they might have
been, there was no doubt they
realised they were the cause of
the battle. They would be the
rights the victor would claim.
They danced on their stilts of
legs as excitement took them.
The antagonists showed the
effect of the fight: feathers
awry; a lucky stroke had laid
open a wound on Grey Ghost’s
thigh, down which slow blood
trickled; Black Bull held his
beak agape as he pumped air to
his lungs ; both were veritable
balls of fury.
Black Bull charged again. He
took Grey Ghost with a glanc-
ing stroke which spun him, sent
a cloud of feathers spraying
from his side, rocked him as he
staggered. Black Bull was wise
in combat: he jerked rather than
turned, jumped and struck with
both claws at the same time.
Grey Ghost reeled under that
attack. He buckled at the knees
as he staggered ; he stumbled as
he regained his feet; he dodged
the next onslaught.
Black Bull whirled. He dived
forward to where his combatant
should have been. There was
nothing there!
/'"'REY GHOST was in flight.
He reeled from side to side
as he fled; his foolish wings
lolled like the tired tongue of a
weary dog ; he was unsteady on
his feet; his tail-feathers flopped
sluggishly instead of bouncing in
unison with his action as he
raced. He did not look back.
He knew what he would see.
Black Bull watched him go.
He drew himself to his full
height, and a rush of scarlet
seemed to blaze in his helmet.
He boomed as his hens
approached him —as they stood
in timid bewonderment in a half-
circle in front of him, and as he
went to them.
He was spent; he was weary;
he was sore and wounded. He
had to celebrate; he raced in
circles about his admiring
group ; he boomed to them as
he swelled his neck.
Black Bull stopped suddenly.
He turned as though jerked by
elastic. He did not look behind
him as he stalked over the
plains. He knew his hens would
follow him wherever he went.
They were his. He knew it.
They knew it. Black Bull was
the master.


A GLORIOUS EVENING
IN WAIKIKI
Complimentary Stop-over by Canadian Pacific
Pac/f*
SUPER DC-6B's . . . New, pressurized,
air-conditioned giant “Empresses of the Air”
with more space per passenger . . . Canadian
Pacific, the most luxurious service across the
Pacific, gives you an overnight stop in glamor-
ous Honolulu ... at no extra cost.
ps
5
mmm
a
Fun and romance under the stars . . . silver-
tipped surf in the moonlight . . . thrilling
Hawaiian dance bands . . . open air native
feasts . . . grass-skirted hula dancers . . .
you’ll never forget an evening ir* Honolulu!
EUROPE
VANCOUVER
TOKYO
HONOLULU f rang »sco
HONGKONG
S MEXICO ’■
r mm SUPERDC6B ROUTE CITY
• Mil CONNECTING CARRIERS
FUI
AUCKLAND
SYDNEY S
Excellent connections at Vancouver with Trans-
Canada Air Lines to Europe; at Honolulu, with
U.S.A. carriers. For full details, consult
-
AIRLINES
of 247 George St., Sydney and 59 William St., Melbourne
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents).
ffiem the compliment of credit-
ing their efforts with an
important part in the—to quote
Mr. Lindsay “monstrous
record of primitive brutality
which has inflicted two world
wars on this earth.”
For the causes of those con-
flicts I fancy we would have to
go a good deal deeper than the
fatal capacity young artists have
of getting caught up in a
fashion; and if they got that
idea into their heads goodness
knows what would happen. A
“All right—I'll get YOU next time!”
few years ago the so-called
modems seriously believed that
they were alone and persecuted,
and they still try to believe it,
although they are now so
fashionable and accepted that a
picture has little chance of get-
ting into the National Gallery in
Melbourne unless it’s distorted.
In fact, I wouldn’t be surprised if
director Daryl Lindsay doesn’t
think his brother’s pictures are
hopelessly old-fashioned.
Wars are produced by people
with the best intentions, so are
pictures, but people have a
tendency when they speak or
write about the modems to put
the name in inverted commas as
if they felt there was something
not quite genuine, if not sinister,
about them. But there is no
reason to think the majority of
them don’t believe in what they
are doing, strange as it may seem
to most eyes. That is not to say,
however, that they necessarily
know what they are doing or
why they do it, any more than
a girl knows why she wears
artificial eyebrows. If you asked
her if she were deliberately try-
ing to make herself look ugly she
would indignantly deny it.
Some modems believe them-
selves to be unintellectual, like
Rousceau, the Customs officer
whose unsophisticated drawings
became world-famous. The best
that can be said of Rousseau's
drawings is that they are child-
like, but they are genuinely child-
like. He never had any academic
training, and when he got the
bee in his bonnet to paint
pictures he painted them in the
only way he knew how to. There
is an innocence about them
which is as captivating as the
innocence of children’s drawings.
But most modems are as full
of intellect as a monkey is of
fleas, and nine-tenths of them
have been through the academic
training and can draw and paint
in terms of gallery conventions.
A child will quite innocently
draw an object upside-down if,
for some reason or other, that is
how it first presented itself to the
child’s imagination ; or it will
draw a motor-car without wheels,
but full of people, because it
isn’t interested in machinery but
is interested in people.
A modern comes along and
sees the child at this occupation,
and, unaware that it has a simple
psychological explanation, will
say: “Ah, the innocence of child-
hood. If only I could draw like
that,” and will start drawing
objects upside-down or without
the necessary means of locomo-
tion. He thinks he is being
unsophisticated, though he is no
more unsophisticated than the
professor who can spell words
of five syllables but has a pose
of not being able to spell the
names of common objects.
The modern is trying to reverse
the normal order. Every child
at some time or other gets
interested in drawing and tries to
express his surroundings, but he
is all out to use all the skill he
has and isn’t consciously trying
to be childlike.
The modern is ; but, unfor-
tunately, he is only posing, and,
for some reason or other, the
pose becomes a fashion.
Critics who only know art by
description feel impressed, and
think that their feeling is pro-
duced by the picture. They
supply .the alleged movement
with a language, and soon every-
body is seeing things in terms of
the description. Gallery directors
don’t like to be thought stodgy
in relation to art any more than
girls like being thought stodgy
in relation to the autumn
fashions, so crookedness, bad
drawing and poarse color become
synonymous with beauty and
receive official recognition. But
there isn’t anything conscious
about it, or malicious either.
F. S.
❖ ❖ ❖
Early Australiana
Melbourne Athenaeum tem-
porarily housed a small portion
of the early Australiana collected
by Spencer Jackson, the man
who vies with J. K. Moir in
having one of the largest and
most comprehensive private col-
lections of the sort in Australia.
The pictures, prints, colored
lithographs and watercolors
cover the same ground as other
collections and leave the impres-
sion that the field has been so
well combed that new finds are
likely to be as rare as hens’
teeth. They also leave the im-
pression that the early artists,
like J. S. Prout, S. T. Gill,
Chevalier and Calvert, were ex-
tremely good illustrative re-
porters. They reflected the life
around them instead of trying to
impose themselves upon it in the
manner of most modern artists.
The result is that Melbourne,
with its sailing-ships, horse-
vehicles, mid-Victorian fashions,
stately homes and buildings, has
an elegance which belies the
rude colonial-days tradition.
The collection is on loan to
Melbourne Rotary. The owner
intends eventually to house it in
a mansion at Jolimont and hand
the lot over to the nation.
The Kiwis
Having passed their 1000th
consecutive performance in Aus-
tralia, a two and a half years’
residence at the Comedy in Mel-
bourne, plus the present eight
months, the New Zealand
Diggers who call themselves the
Kiwis have started on their fare-
well programme preparatory to
flitting to England.
It consists of a medley of
items from previous programmes
which have endeared them to the
local population and a few new
gadgets. The best of these is
another conversation-piece from
a play of Noel Coward in which
John Hunter, the pastmaster or
. m j stress G f f ema le im person a-
tors> takes the bass . barito ne part
G f tbe ma j e an£ j the soprano of
t j l£ £ ema j e j n a b j t Q f calf-love
with extraordinary expertness.
Comedian Stan y W in ee ra gives
comedian &tan wmeera gives
one °f his smileless com-
mentaries on the follv of war
mentaries on me roily or war,
or at any rate, the Army, and
Bill Bam makes his/her appear-
ance as the beautiful snv Olea
ance as me oeautirui spy uiga
The' best musical number is
the songs o£ the Maori battalion
sung by Taffy Owen, James
Lavery, Tony Rex, Eric Snow-
den and Maurice Tansley, It
would be as sustained a farewell
as Melba’s if the theatre weren’t
required for another purpose
within a few months.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Cocktail Party”
As far as could be judged
from the performance by the
Melbourne Little Theatre of
“The Cocktail Party” at the
Union Theatre, University of
Melbourne, T. S. Eliot is better
as a poet than a, playwright.
It i§ obvious what he is after
in “The Cocktail Party.” Like
Shaw, he has certain philosophi-
cal, psychological and ethical
ideas, quite sound if not par-
ticularly new, to put over. The
wife who has left her husband,
the girl-friend and The Stranger
who gate-crashes the cocktail-
party and later turns out to be
the psychiatrist Sir Henry Har-
court-Reilly, alias God, who tries
to bring husband and wife to-
gether, are symbols for those
ideas, and various situations are
created to illustrate the clash
between one idea and another.
It is a different reality from
Chekhov’s that Eliot is after,
but either he doesn’t get it, or
it got smothered in the mistaken
notions of the Little Theatre
players as to how to act it. No-
body lived either as a human
being or a symbol, and although
they were all supposed to be
neurotics and their relations in
actual terms were as desperate
and tragic as could be imagined,
they produced no more feeling
than if they had been all sitting
around working out the “Herald”
crossword-puzzle.
The psychiatrist, the most im-
portant character in the play,
was done by Howard Baker.
When a psychiatrist really gets
on to something in his patient’s
psyche the patient generally goes
into a tantrum, but Carl Bleazby,
as the husband, accepted the*
revelation that he didn’t know
himself or know his girl-friend,
and didn’t know a thing about
the wife he’d lived with for so
many years, as if it were a piece
of interesting abstract informa-
tion.
If there is any poetry in the
play it was drowned in the rapid
diction.
❖ ❖
“The Pleasure of Honesty”
In this play, put on by Hana
Pravda’s Tana company at the
Union Theatre, University of
Melbourne, Pirandello is con-
cerned with the problem of
reality and appearance, the
same as perplexed Socrates.
Socrates told stories to illustrate
his meaning, and so does Piran-
dello.
The story in this case is of an
Italian marquis whose mistress
has become pregnant. To keep
up appearances the marquis and
the girl’s mother decide to
marry her to a dubious gent,
named Baldovino and then get
rid of Baldovino so that the
marquis can carry on the reality
underneath the appearance.
The marquis provides the
symbol for respectability with a
fine house and servants, a wife
and a son and a partnership in
his business, but, unfortunately
for the marquis, the symbol be-
comes interested in the problem
and starts playing tricks upon
him.
One of the conditions is that
Baldovino shall be charged with
a crime that will give an appear-
ance of reality to his sudden
desertion of his wife and
baby, but Baldovino insists that
it shall be a real crime and not
the mere appearance of it, so the
marquis has to hand him over
3,000,000 lire of the firm’s assets
in hard cash. The 3,000,000 lire
gives the symbol for respect-
ability much more reality for
the girl than the marquis’s world
of furtiveness and hypocrisy, and
she elects to go off with Baldo-
vino.
Pirandello decks his theme with
literary wit and some wise say-
ings and occasionally with real
feeling, and the last was extra-
ordinarily well rendered by a
cast mainly composed of New
Australians. As the girl, Bette
Rockman was a wild and tem-
pestuous wife and mistress, and
Hana Pravda gave an uncanny
appearance of reality to her
mother. George Philippe, Mrs.
Pravda’s husband, repeated the
high quality of his acting as
Raskolnikoff in “Crime and
Punishment” by making Baldo-
vino so like an Italian of one’s
acquaintance as to remove the
barriers Pirandello erected be-
tween reality and appearance.
Bill Levis was good as a rector.
flashed, gazing at each other, for
“Art in Australia.”
She looked so frail, and had
a cold, and I wondered how she
had managed to be so vital on
the stage. She could only
whisper, and her husband spoke
for her. She had fainted at a
lunch that day.
Howard Hinton usually came
to Springwood once a year: a
visit of great pleasure to
Norman, not for a possible sale,
as buyers were not encouraged,
but for the interest that Hinton
had in the work and the feeling
that he left behind that it was
worth doing.
He would come on Saturday
and spend till Sunday afternoon
looking at everything, when he
would ask to be left alone for
an hour with the pictures; then
he would ask Norman to come
in. He would have his selected
pictures up and would timidly
inquire the price. He always,
made Norman feel that he was
the privileged one to be allowed
to buy one or two.
One day when Norman priced
a picture at £lOO Hinton at once
wrote a cheque. “I couldn’t take
it for less,” he said, handing his
cheque for £175. That picture
he gave to the N. S. Wales
Gallery.


Canyon
detect a ‘classic ?
f•***".*< r y.
£
im
0
BEIX s
nuiMiuiiviniM wi^jSS*
imimiicii Mi** 1 *!: l . l tiii |
lUim/iM) lIU i* l *
fi
distillers «rth scoj
• kumi vmußi ul
product of scotch,.
=O4l
One of life’s little joys
lies in making
your own discoveries.
Nosing out a good thing.
Picking a ‘surprise’ winner.
Quietly finding the best.
Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky
which has that true classic
flavour that only the rare,
the very best, whiskies
can achieve. All the
natural advantages of
soft Highland air, peat and
water, together with
the best of barleys are
made the most of by slow
maturing and careful
blending. Good whisky
takes time.
You have only to open a
bottle of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky to appreciate its
classic bouquet and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
dsc(.
DISTILLERS perth S GOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
keiv mom MF&
yafUlv
SANDERS
<#>files
Correspondence. Invoice*,
statements, etc., filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(he end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. to
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros, Pty. LM.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Lto.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book Co, (Au*fc>
Boijsmjojoi jaqj
-*■l paw o»ij
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
STALIN AFTERMATH
“The Western world,” as
London “Time and Tide” has
noted, “has debated the possible
consequences of Stalin’s death
to the virtual exclusion of every
other topic of conversation.”
That has certainly been true
of the British and American
Press, and the discussion con-
tinues.
Speculation on what, in par-
ticular, Soviet foreign policy is
henceforth likely to be under
Malenkov is still very mixed,
but, except for the now few re-
maining Russia idolaters, the
hopes for a change for the
better entertained by quite a
number are mostly qualified by
cautious doubts.
* * * *
“Time and Tide” : “There has
been, to judge from Press
reports, little exultation any-
where. Certainly there is very
little in this country [Britain],
although one Londoner did seek
to exculpate himself from a
charge of having been drunk
and disorderly by pleading
Stalin's death as an excuse.”
'♦* ♦ *
London “Spectator”:
“Various tests of sincerity
present themselves immediately.
Will Russia at last consent to
the negotiation and signature of
a treaty with Austria? Will she
join with the rest of the United
Nations States in a genuine
attempt (more, indeed, than a
mere attempt, for the decision
rests almost wholly in Russian
hands) to end the war in Korea?
Will she co-operate instead of
consistently obstructing in the
Security Council and Assembly
and other United Nations
organisations?”
Same: “The experiment of
government by five may break
down under the stress of
personal rivalries and intrigues;
though of that there is no indica-
tion as yet. Among the satellite
Powers Communism as a poli-
tical principle may exert as effec-
tive a political influence as the
personality of Stalin ; but all the
odds are that it will not. Mao
Tse-tung may show the same
deference to Mr. Malenkov and
his associates as he did to Mr.
Stalin; but that too seems
improbable. Bonds are more
likely to loosen than tighten.
Dissolution may come sooner
than at present seems likely.”
* * * *
American foreign-affairs com-
mentator, David Lawrence:
“Washington, like London
and Paris, is still steering
without a compass—a set of
basic principles. The strongest
nations militarily that the earth
has ever seen are continuing to
be bluffed by a group of bold
conspirators in the Kremlin who,
when challenged in earnest, will
be swept from Russia by an
enraged populace.”
* * * ♦
Randolph S. Churchill, in a
London “Daily Telegraph”
letter: “In the nihilistic society
which Stalin created, terror is the
indispensable weapon ; it is not
only necessary for wickedness to
be done, but for it to be seen
that wickedness is done. The
idea that the sort of power which
Stalin accumulated can be
handed over on a plate to an
unknown successor is illusory in
the highest degree, and we may
be sure that the careful and
—London “Daily Mail”
THE NEW FACE
(The artist is Illingworth, of the “Daily Mail” and “Punch,” solving the problem that cartoonists
the world over have had to tackle —trying to make something interesting of Malenkov's rather
unpromising face.)
unusual education which
Malenkov received made him
aware of this fact.
“Not even a man so carefully
trained and so imbued with evil
from his earliest v as he will
find it easy to step into Stalin’s
bloodstained boots. Stalin’s
power rested upon the fact that
he had killed 10 million people ;
so far as we know, Malenkov
has never killed a fly.
“These are, of course, early
days; but it may be thought
significant that whereas Stalin
arrested the nine doctors who, he
told us, murdered the late Mr.
Zhdanov, Malenkov has not yet
arrested or denounced the nine
doctors who presided over
Stalin’s deathbed. [He has,
instead, of course sensationally
released the doctors Stalin had
arrested and has jailed their
“accusers.”]
“The one safe forecast must
be that unless Malenkov quickly
proves himself a monster of
ferocious wickedness on a scale
worthy of Stalin, the little power
he now possesses will' quickly
pass to others with a truer and
livelier sense of Communist
tradition and technique.”
* * * *
Malcolm Muggeridge, new
editor of “Punch” : “There has
been something excruciatingly
funny in the spectacle of Western
European intellectuals finding in
such a man [as Stalin] their
guide, philosopher and friend.
His sudden darts of policy have
left them breathless ; the banality
of his taste in matters of art and
literature has been a source of
anguish to them. Poor H. G.
Wells tried to interest him in the
P.E.N. Club a forlorn
endeavor. Ribbentrop found the
conversation easier going be-
cause, as he pointed out at
Nuremburg, there was the parti-
tion of Poland to discuss. This
was a subject which readily held
Stalin’s attention. It is, indeed, a
curious circumstance that, in
transactions with foreigners.
Stalin found his avowed enemies
more congenial companions than
his avowed friends and admirers.
Talk flowed more easily and
readily with Lord Beaverbrook
than with Sir Stafford Cripps.
Few human beings caused so
much suffering to their fellows as
Stalin, but it can at least be
said that he, too, suffered —from
the Fabians.”
Same: “To suppose that the
Soviet regime will necessarily
now disintegrate, or become
more humane and more pliable,
would be no more than wishful-
thinking, It could as well
become yet more brutal and
intransigent. Yet the fact
remains that Stalin had for long
been the regime’s pivot, and that
he preferred pigmies to possible
rivals in his entourage. Some
sort of crisis, therefore, could
arise, offering to the Russian and
satellite peoples the possibility
of escaping from their present
servitude, and to the rest of man-
kind a hope that the shadow
under which they have lived
through these uneasy post-war
years may at last be lifted.”
* % * *
Paul Wohl, in New York
“Herald Tribune” : “In contrast
to the Soviet State and the Com-
munist party of the Soviet
Union, satellite Communist
Governments lack real political
support at home. The new
middle-class of Communist
bureaucrats, officers, managers
and technicians, which in Russia
is interested in maintaining the
present set-up, has not yet con-
solidated itself in Eastern
Europe. Without the Stalin
myth the people’s democracies
lose their political face, their
legitimacy, their moral pretext.
Only the Stalin myth kept them
from appearing as what they
really are—dominions of the
Great Russian Soviet State. This
reality is difficult to take.
“For the last five years every
sacrifice and exertion, every cur-
tailment of liberties was justified
in the name of the great Stalin’s
unerring foresight, his deep
solicitude for every one of the
people’s democracies, his
unshakable dedication to the
Communist brotherhood of
nations. With Stalin gone the
wraps are off the sordid faqade
of the Muscovite empire and
Communism of the Muscovite
persuasion has clearly become a
Russian affair.
“Hitherto the measure of
importance of a satellite poli-
tician was the degree of his
acquaintance with Josef Stalin.
Henceforth their role is that of
valets of the ruler of the
Russias.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Editor “Yorkshire Post” :
“This is no moment for wild
Soviet adventures. It is a time
for consolidation and defence
of what has been gained under
Stalin’s grasping policy. Russia’s
policy of armed strength beyond
defensive needs causes wide-
spread misery. It must be this
misery that prompted the
Kremlin to speak publicly of the
danger of panic. Yet the armed
strength the Soviet rulers com-
mand is not so great as to be
able to overwhelm the might of
the West.
“I cannot help believing that
the Kremlin is not entirely hypo-
critical in declaring for world
peace. We have heard the senti-
ments of peace before. But I
think the hard facts do warn
Malenkov and his colleagues to
be exceedingly careful, and do
give us some hope that we may
soon have a better chance of
coming to terms with Russia.
“The Kremlin leaders will
have enough to do to ward off
grave troubles in Communist
lands without taking on more
burdens by challenging the West.
The more they venture towards
World War 111 the more
powerful will become the restive
elements under the Hammer-
and-Sickle. Indeed, they will
become more troublesome under
any conditions. The discipline
that prevailed in the grip of war
is trying the people like the
oppression of olden days.
“Stalin worked himself to
death in the effort to keep the
all-pov/prful central bureaucratic
machinery of the Kremlin run-
ning smoothly. His successors
will have to spread their power
and decentralise much control to
prevent a breakdown. Their
hands are full. They need peace
badly.”
# * * *
James Restart, “New York
Times” : “The interesting thing
about the present situation is
that, with Mr. Molotov back as
Soviet Foreign Minister,
Anthony Eden back as British
Foreign Secretary and M-
Bidault back as French Foreign
Minister, the men who were in
office or in positions of high
importance at the end of World
War II hold the foreign-policy
reins once more.”
* * * *
Far East commentator O. M.
Green, in Edinburgh “Scots-
man” : “Unquestionably Mao
Tse-tung stands out now as the
greatest figure in the Communist
world, not only on the record of
his extraordinary achievements
and pre-eminence as a political
thinker, but for his personal
appeal even for millions who
detest Communism. In all these
qualities there appears to be
nobody among the new rulers in
Moscow who is even remotely


The Past and the Future
f
wSt
V.
%
"S
"U W*
/*
A',
fe>-«
mini
j&jEags
ONE OF SYDNEY'S
OLDEST LANDMARKS.
The Obelisk, Macquarie Place, erected in
1818 hy Governor Macquarie in the then
centre of the Settlement —
“To record that all the public roads
leading to the interior of the Colony are
measured from it."
W.
e have played our part in
the development of this country
from the early days and we look
forward to assisting with the
future development of Australia.
Still owned and controlled by
Australians, we provide to-day, as
we have done through the years,
an efficient banking service.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
comparable with film. Some
observers indeed have already
prophesied that Mao will take
Stalin’s place as director of the
vast Communist bloc which
stretches from Germany to the
South China Sea.”
* * # ♦
London correspondent, “New
York Times”: “Diplomats and
experts in psychological warfare
in Britain believe that the best
chance for the Western demo-
cracies to exploit and profit from
Stalin’s death lies in the Far
East, where rivalry between Mao
Tse-tung and the new dictators
of Russia may lead, in their
opinion, to a rift such as
occurred between Yugoslavia
and the Soviet Union.”
* * * «
“New York Times’ “For
years there has been talk of
bitter rivalry between Malenkov
and Molotov, Malenkov and
Beria. There has been bad blood
between the Army and the secret
police. The party and the State
bureaucracy have old scores to
settle. The ‘old Bolsheviks’ have
never made peace with the new
ones. And regional rivalries
exacerbated by racial differences
and historic memories of inde-
pendence poison relationships
between a score of now-sub-
merged nationalities.”
* * * *
‘‘New York Times” foreign-
affairs writer: “By a dramatic
coincidence, Eisenhower comes
on the stage of history as Stalin
goes out. The exit of the dic-
tator cannot but affect the Presi-
dent’s decisions. He must re-
examine his policy in the light
of this pregnant event. There
will be a pause until the new
Soviet leader reveals his hand —
a pause for ‘consolidation’ in
Moscow, and it is hoped the time
will be used for consolidation in
the West as well.
“The opportunity to give
firmness and unity to Allied
policy is providentially timed,
and there is a grain of hope that
we may take advantage of it in
the announcement that Great
Britain and the United States
have agreed at last to follow the
same course in the oil dispute in
Iran and in plugging-up the
holes in trade with Communist
China. If the continuance of
Soviet power depends on
internal unity, so does the
survival of the free world.”
* * * #
London “Economist” : “If all
is not well, if Malenkov has to
cling to the saddle, rather than
ride easily, it does not follow
that the free world should feel
relief.
“When Stalin was frightened,
or nervous, he had the prestige
and power to withdraw —for
example over the Berlin
blockade. He could afford to
lose face; perhaps Malenkov
cannot: Stalin had had states-
man’s dealings with America and
Britain ; Malenkov’s experience
lies more in official and con-
spiratorial channels. Stalin, in
his post-war diplomacy, was
dealing with a United States and.
Western Europe which were
weak and defensively minded.
His successor faces a more
ambitious and energetic policy
in Washington, if not in London
and Paris.
“In short, we have to reckon
not only with the new idea in
Moscow, but with the impact
there of a new initiative in
Washington. The risks of this
confrontation were being
reviewed before Stalin died;
they must be reviewed again
with a clear understanding that
next to nothing is known of how
the triumvirate of Malenkov,
Beria and Bulganin will think on
matters of foreign policy, or of
how difficulties in internal policy
may influence their judgment.”
♦ * ♦ *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Is it possible that with the death
of Stalin his ‘malignant power’
(in the words of Secretary of
State Dulles) has also died?
Mr. Dulles expressed the hope,
which millions must share, that
the Russian dictator could not
bequeath to anyone the prestige
and authority which he accumu-
lated through his intrigues and
the victories of the Red Army.
The Secretary of State looks to
the opening of a new era. To
that the free world can assent —
in the full realisation, however,
that if Russia’s new era is better
than the old it will be because
the new dictators are less
powerful than Stalin and because
the free nations consolidate their
will and their strength without
stint or reserve.”
In Blackest Africa
African phenomenon, noted
by a London “Economist”
correspondent;
“Nothing is more astonishing
than to pass from either of the
Rhodesias, or from Kenya, to
British West Africa. It is like
entering a different world.
“Suddenly you are in a world
of black men —which is absurd,
for in the Rhodesias there are
20 Africans to each European,
in Kenya 125 Africans to each
European.
“The real difference is that
there the Africans were merely
a background, here they fill the
background and the foreground
as well. Customs officials, health
inspectors, policemen, soldiers,
M.P.s, lawyers, teachers, Cabinet
Ministers —all, or nearly all, are
black.
“It is not just that there has
been, for Africa, an unprece-
dented shift of power; or that
these black politicians, barristers
and -officials are actually
handling the apparatuses of
Western life and seeming to do
so with growing confidence and
not badly. The most striking
thing is the relations between
white and black in these West
African colonies. They are not
merely good: they are cordial.
In clubs, in cinemas, in hotels,
in shops, white and black mingle
freely without awkwardness or
suspicion.”
Cheap Wheat
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” comment;
“The International Wheat
Agreement, during its four-year
life, will have cost the U.S.
nearly 600 million dollars. This
is the cost of subsidising wheat?
exports. The Eisenhower Ad-
ministration is certainly out to
cut this loss.”
“The agreement, due to end
next July,” comments London
“Observer,” “has for nearly four
years allowed an importing
country such as Britain to buy
some 60 per cent, of its wheat
at a good deal less than market
price. In effect, the United
States Government has had to
buy this wheat from American
farmers in order to carry out
the agreement, and the American
taxpayer has thus been indirectly
subsidising the British loaf.”
The Rosenbergs
Every possible U.S. legal
appeal and plea were heard over
the past year or two on behalf
of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg,
guilty of spying for Russia.
The painstaking American
judicial system time after time
weighed the evidence, and each
time came to the one decision —
that the death sentence must
stand.
The rejection of the appeal to
the President was expected, as it
would have been had Stevenson
been elected or Truman remained
in office.
“President Eisenhower,” said
New York “Herald Tribune,”
“took the direct view: that the
best way to advance the cause of
the greatest of the free nations is
to see that the law of the land
is in no way deflected or
trimmed. The legal mandate in
this case was clear; the trial was
fair ; the review was thorough,
and the last act of the President
in keeping with the people’s
stern resolve to defend them-
selves against betrayal from
within.”
The controversial element of
the case has been that,
though the espionage was ad-
mittedly committed in war-time,
it was not on behalf of an
enemy, Russia then being one of
America’s allies.
A London “Daily Express”
correspondent has pointed out
how the case has shown the dif-
ference of outlook between the
U.S. and Britain on “the whole
problem of Communism and the
joint battle against the East,”
meaning Russia.
“The plain fact,” he com-
mentecl, “is that America has
long since considered herself at
war with the U.S.S.R.
“There is no time for sym-
pathy for a woman whose
treachery may have helped to
cause 120,000 American casual-
ties in the Korean war; whose
treachery undoubtedly helped
Russia, the feared and hated
adversary, to catch up so quickly,
so frighteningly quickly, on the
secrets of the A-bomb.
“In America, when I left it
—America whose people will
normally sign petitions at the
drop of a hat—sympathy for the
Rosenbergs was practically non-
existent—
“ The British attitude? Ameri-
can reaction to the way we
[British] have chosen to handle
matters since the war runs all
the way from blank astonish-
ment through mild irritation to
blazing resentment. Few Ameri-
cans can begin to understand
why Dr. Alan Nunn May was
given only a 10-year sentence
and was allowed time off for
good behavior. There is resent-
ment, too, over the sentence
meted out to Klaus Fuchs (he
was part of the same big spy-
ring as the Rosenbergs); suspi-
cion over the flight of Professor
Bruno Pontecorvo, the natural-
ised British nuclear physicist,
who is thought to have gone to
Moscow
“The American reasons things
this way: A Communist is the
same thing as an enemy agent.
There is no such thing as an
amateur Communist or a harm-
less Communist. The only good
Red is a jailed Red.”
“The Communist apologists,”
“New York Times” has com-
mented, “obviously wish to
make martyrs of the Rosenbergs.
It should be remembered, how-
ever, that their martyrdom was
wholly of their own choosing.
Their attitude from the start has
been defiant, obdurate and unre-
pentant.”
“No fair-minded person,”
concludes London “Economist,”
“can argue that the United
States has not leaned over back-
ward to give the Rosenbergs
every legal opportunity to save
themselves.”
Various Voices
Tito: “I am deeply convinced
that the Soviet Union is afraid
of a world war.”
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler: “In
the past twelve months the sterl-
—New York “Herald Tribune”
IT’S A VERY CRITICAL TIME
ing area as a whole has experi-
enced an improvement in its
affairs so striking that it affords
us great encouragement in
tackling the pressing and diffi-
cult problems that remain.”
'
Malenkov : “The foreign
policy of the U.S.S.R. flows
from the Lenin-Stalin axiom
that peaceful co-existence and
peaceful competition between
two different systems —the Capi-
talist and Socialist systems —are
possible.”
U.S. delegate to U.NO., Henry
Cabot Lodge, Jr.: “In 1950, as a
delegate to the fifth General
Assembly, I urged the Soviet
Union not to be afraid. The
more I study the subject the
more I am convinced that fear
is at the bottom of alf the violent
words and violent deeds which
distinguish the foreign policy of
the Soviet Union.”
Patrick Gordon-Walker
(Socialist M.P.; Britain’s
former Secretary for Common-
wealth Relations): “Titoism can-
not be permanently suppressed
because nationalism cannot be
suppressed. It is the most power-
ful and inextinguishable force in
the world today,”
General Omar Bradley: “If
wars can be provoked, they can
also be averted. But they can
be averted only if the peace-
loving people of this world love
peace enough to oppose aggres-
sion in whatever form it may
recur, .j. ,We cannot halt im-
perialism with moral indigna-
tion.”
Lady Pepler (member of Lon-
don County Council): “If
women must insist on exposing
themselves to the stabs and
nervous strains of public life
after so successfully ruling Eng-
land in the background for
many hundreds of years, local-
government work is a suitable
medium for their natural capaci-
ties.”
Nehru: “The idea of a third
bloc or ‘third force’ frightens
or embarrasses people. Let us
rather work to get as large an
area as possible of countries
which do not want to encourage
any tendencies to war, who wish
to work for peace and do not
want to align themselves with
any bloc.”


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
I
OS
CM
S TtR"-' St °
fL OVJ»
BOH*
?UO'V
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC phosphate
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Bo> 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Bo* 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bo* 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Bo* 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
AlttllllMHMjfi
* RUDIP »
:-v- ■"
I
l
cTiT
DDT DIP
*G COMPOUND
i to<XTm-« —<u o— Bgj
\-
NO KED
MIXES EBSILV WITH WOTEB
nupt?
} ‘x<
JJ
NO LICE
THE PERFECT, MODERN, DUAL-PURPOSE DDT
SHEEP DIP AND JETTING COMPOUND
(Kills ked and lice — prevents blowfly strike)
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY,, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE,* ADELAIDE, PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Bees and Statistics
“S.”: The Commonwealth
Statistician says production of
honey in Australia has dropped
24 per cent., but the real figure
for most of the States was nearer
40* per cent. W.A. saved the
dayfc by a jump of 165 per cent,
over last year’s total production.
On the other hand, Queensland
produced less than half of last
year’s figure—and it was low
enough.
One 601 b. tin per colony means
a cash return to the beekeeper
of £2. To earn that £2 the
average beeherder must move
his bees at least three times a
year. A hundred miles is about
the average shift. At general
carrying rates and taking 80
colonies as average loading,
shifting expenses per hive over
the twelvemonth works out at
roughly £l.
This lonely quid has to stretch
over the miles of travel —apart
from the first move—to work the
bees, extracting and building up,
prospecting and securing sites,
etc. It must cover site payment
—and all sites must be paid for,
whether to private landholder
or P.P. Board —and then it must
stre'tch a little further to cover
the cost of the hired hand who,
at busy times, is as necessary as
is the extractor. Then, all else
failing, the quid, or the frag-
ment left, must be operated on
with a razor-blade to cover the
material replacements that will
occur each season. Also, to
protect the outfit from going to
pieces altogether, the beekeeper
must dredge up enough of that
astonishing pound to do the
rounds with a paintbrush at least
every second year.
The other quid, if the fore-
going has not scaled it down a
bit, has to cover interest on
initial outlay (£l5OO for a truck,
£2OOO for hives), keep the bee-
man in clothes and tucker and
provide the year’s profit.
I’d give a lot to see one of
these wordy economists making
it do so. Yet it is apparently on
economists’ findings that the
price of honey is officially fixed.
Rain-Making
“Rooster”; In 1944-45-46
drought struck north-west N. S.
Wales. On some occasions dark
heavy cloudbanks built up, only
to disappear in the evenings.
This went on for months, but no
rain fell. Came the following
queries: (1) Whence came the
clouds? (2) Why didn’t they
bring rain? (3) Could a method
be found to force the clouds to
release their water?
Dr. E. G. Bowen, of the
Radio Physics Laboratory of
C.5.1.R.0., recently stated that
“rain-making would be practic-
able in five years.” He admits,
however, that the only likely
successful method will be in
operations from the air, and
sounds a warning-note by stat-
ing bluntly that although rain
could be produced artificially,
there was no known method by
which it could be stopped.
The physics of rain-bearing
clouds is highly complex. The
discovery that crystal germs are
formed when molecules collide
in a very cold, super-saturated
vapor, and that a high degree of
super-saturation can be achieved
simply by the rapid cooling of
moist air, led to the “dry-ice”
experiments. “Dry-ice” is solid
carbon-dioxide, and its tempera-
ture 80deg. C. A tiny ball of
it, dropped through the atmos-
phere, forms billions of tiny ice
crystals in its trail, capable of
forming substantial rainfall if
spread throughout a cloud of
super-cooled droplets.
But the rain-producing capa-
bilities of dry-ice depend largely
on the physical properties of the
clouds chosen.
Many of these physical
properties in clouds, before un-
known, are now carefully
checked, and can be dealt with
for rain-developing purposes. If,
and when, rain-making comes
into effect, it would be invalu-
able to all semi-arid parts of
the world.
Snags would be; (1) Could
artificial rain be directed in pro-
portion to local requirements?
(2) Can it be turned on and off
at will? (3) Would its general
practice interfere with the
natural rainfall over a period of
years?
Until these questions are
answered the whole proposition
is doubtful.
Potatoes and Tomatoes
“Peter Simple”: Planted a few
rows of certified Saranac seed-
potatoes in a bed that had been
heavily manured for cauliflowers
the previous season, and watered
them (as I thought) sufficiently
between showers. They yielded
an average of only a little over
31b. a stalk.
However, two spare tubers
which I planted at the end of a
row of tomatoes, alongside of
the others, yielded 141 b. of first-
quality potatoes —one stalk 81b.
and the other 61b. They were
nourished all through by the
overflow from the heavy weekly
watering I gave the tomatoes;
this also carried to them some
of the nourishment fed to the
tomatoes.
My Grosse Lisse tomatoes
developed the tomato-mite quite
early; I sprayed them several
times with E 605 and they
recovered. Before planting I
had put a liberal helping of
poultry manure, with a sprink-
ling of superphosphate, in the
hole. To my dismay I then read
an expert’s advice saying this
would merely produce overgrown
stalks. However, I picked my
first crop of well-grown tomatoes
before Christmas, suggesting the
expert was wrong.
Then I gave them a second
feeding of a complete fertiliser
containing trace-elements; they
took a second lease of life and
have been producing fruit evsr
since.
Even now, at the top of their
9ft. branches, they are showing
more flowers. A second row of
tomatoes alongside the first one
“ You'd better brush up y'r navigation, Paddy. This
ain't the reef we're lookin' for."
were not fed before planting, but
have been fed generously since;
they have produced some good
fruit, but, although six weeks
behind the first lot, will have to
be pulled out about the same
time. They have produced only
about half the weight of fruit of
the first ones. Generous water-
ing of the potatoes and pre-
feeding of the tomatoes, plus
liberal weekly watering during
dry spells, have paid handsome
dividends.
Calving Time
“Myrr”: As calving-time
approaches the cow should be
placed in a clean, well-sheltered
paddock where an eye can be
kept on her. Growth and de-
velopment of her calf will
depend on the way it is fed and
managed during the first week
or 10 days of its life. Checks
during this period often leave
permanent effects.
For the first four or five days
it should get its own mother’s
milk (colostrum), which differs
from ordinary milk in that it
contains a greater quantity of
easily-digested protein (about 17
per cent.), much vitamin A,
more minerals and some im-
munising substances which pro-
tect the calf from a number of
complaints, especially from in-
fections of the digestive system.
The colostrum also acts as a
laxative which starts the calf’s
digestive system working.
Feeding the Floodbound
“Agric”: E. D. Hill, a
grazier-airman, of Rosevale,
Wyandra (Q.), who first became
interested in feeding fodder to
sheep stranded in a flood in 1940,
suggests that graziers in areas
subject to periodical flooding
should lay down airstrips about
every 100 miles for the distri-
bution of fodder for stock and
food for humans in flood-times.
Hill recently flew over the
flooded Macintyre River country
from Thallon to Texas, and he
was impressed with the many
patches of high ground he saw.
Some of these, he suggests, could
be made depots for the storage
of fodder or concentrates, and
he thinks manufacturers of con-
centrates might be persuaded to
construct a silo at some of these
depots.
It is officially considered that
a sheep can be kept alive in a
drought by feeding it lOoz. of
concentrated “nuts” or “cake,”
or ilb. of maize, or lib, of
lucerne daily, and Hill says that
a D.C.3 plane, working from a
depot in a flooded area, could
keep alive from 10,000 to 15,000
sheep at far less expense than
normal flood-feeding, A 700 yd.
airstrip would be sufficient for a
Dragon-type plane.
Hill also emphasised advant-
ages of having the name of
a station painted on the
homestead roof. He could see
“Royston Stud,” on L. G. Mc-
Coll’s Royston homestead, near
Boggabilla (N.S.W.), from
4000 ft. up, and he suggested that
Mr. McColl might give fellow-
graziers the dimensions of the
lettgrs used.
The Sow
“M.”: It pays to sell sows
as backfatters while they are still
young. It was once common
practice to keep a sow until she
had reared six litters or more;
now farmers sell her after she
has had two or three.
A backfatter sow is worth sub-
stantially more than a young sow
of bacon-weight used to replace
her. Although most sows
produce more pigs per litter
after the third, they do not
usually rear more nor rear them
so well as they get older.
It’s impossible to anticipate
when a sow will begin to
deteriorate as a producer, but,
as a general rule, it’s more
economical to sell her before she
has passed her peak.
Year-long Blossoms
“Konanda”.: An almost ever-
blooming tree is the beautiful
deep-pink flowering Cassia, a
fine Westralian which goes up
from 15ft. to 20ft, Macrocarpa,
the “Coolgardie rose,” is, per-
haps, one of the best-loved of
our trees, having enormous red
flowers up to sin. across. It
grows to a height of 10ft.
Erythrocorys, yet another
from Westralia, is one of the
finest small trees, with brilliant
red buds and rich yellow flowers.
It grows to 20ft.
Two other fine West Aus-
tralians are Forrestiana, 10ft. to
15ft,, and Torquata, to 12ft.;
the first prized for its yellow
flowers and the second for red
or orange blossom.
All these trees are noted for
their fine habit of growth and
wealth of bloom.
Better Pastures
“Hortus”: Agronomist
Hudson, at Berridale (N.S.W.)
agricultural conference, stated
that sub.-clover is now the most
important legume in southern
and central N.S.W. in areas of
a better-than-18in. rainfall. Six
of the 70-80 strains of sub.-
clover have been developed com-
mercially. Earliest strain, for
drier areas, is Dwalganup, fol-
lowed, in order of maturity, by
Yarloop, Clare, Bacchus Marsh,
Mt. Barker and Tallarook.
For the Monaro and South
Coast areas the two showing best
results are Bacc. M. and Mt. B.
Coming to the fore also in
N.S.W. are the rye-grasses, of
which there is quite a numerous
selection to choose from —
Wimmera, Italian, Perennial,
Short Rotation H.l and the Vic-
torian perennials (Clunes, Colac
and Kyneton).
Hudson urged farmers to go
in for harvesting sufficient seed
for their own pasture-improve-
ment schemes, especially sub.-
clover, Phalaris tuberosa and
rye-grasses, all of which will
play an important role in the
Monaro and coastal regions in
the near future.
Strip Pasture
“Pirts”: Some of the most
telling demonstrations in
improved pastures in N.S.W.
have been made recently on the
South Coast with the help of
Commonwealth Dairy Grant
funds.
On hillside country, improved
pastures have been sown in
contoured strips alternating with
uncultivated swards across the
slopes. The contrast can be seen
some miles away, and no better
magnet could be devised for
drawing surrounding farmers to
the property to see what it is all
about.
The strip pastures are, how-
ever, not laid down in this way
merely for this purpose. The
work is done to suit the purse
of the dairyfarmer who feels
chary about making a large
expenditure on improved
pastures all in one year. Further
strips can be sown each year
until the whole area of poor
natural pasture is finally covered.
Liming Coastal Pastures
“Calcic”: English farmers
have a saying “lime, lime, lime
without manure will make both
farm and farmer poor.” One of


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
sd
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
Platter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
n
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established SS pears.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS; ———
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
TOlbs.
-m
■ ' ■
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
\ BARKERS
I No Pads —
f No Springs
The NEO-BAKKEM
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. So), 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fsd
w
WHILE
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DINNER
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.'
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents
for the ASA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
HEW SOUTH WALES 45 Kins Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _. _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND ______ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ______ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ __ _. „ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd,, Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
TILLE Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
mm
mm
m
■
m
Cf
*
■sSImI
-/:
While import re-
strictions remain
yon may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TIIXEY
products.
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an >
Independent Unit, it is Economic only pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. MODEL TLIO6
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE queen")
- T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
the first axioms in the use o
lime on land is that it speeds-u
the utilisation of other plant
foods in the soil. Some official
advisers and farmer sponsors o:
the lime theory have suggested
the use of lime without phos
phates. English farmers know
from experience that the more
lime applied the greater the
application of phosphates mus'
be.
They also realise fully that
milk, as well as the bones o
young growing stock, contain
appreciable quantities of phos-
phates as well as of lime or
calcium, and these phosphates
come from the soil.
More recently, studies in Eng-
land have shown that the breed-
ing efficiency of cattle has been
impaired where there has been
a high intake of lime in propor-
tion to that of phosphates.
Another, aspect of liming land
is that the continued practice can
bring about, under some condi-
tions, an unavailability of some
of the minor or trace elements, a
dearth of which has already been
found on some N.S.W. North
Coast soils.
Opthalmia in Cattle
“C.P.”; Ophthalmia is preva-
lent among cattle this year, and
outbreaks have been investigated
by the C.5.1.R.0. The disease
is very contagious. The first
sign is weeping and some swel-
ling of the eyelids. Then an
opaque patch appears on the
cornea. This may spread so that
the whole surface becomes
milky-white, and, in very severe
cases, it sometimes ulcerates and
ruptures. The animal is often
temporarily, and sometimes per-
manently, blinded, but many
cases recover spontaneously in a
month or so. Condition is lost,
milk-production falls and acci-
dents are frequent because the
animal is blind or partly so.
In all cases treated by smear-
ing inside the lower eyelid an
ointment containing the anti-
biotic Chloromycetin there has
been an excellent response, com-
pared with untreated eyes which
have been left as controls. In
early cases a single treatment
has resulted in vfery obvious im-
provement within 24 hours. Two
treatments, night and morning,
and sometimes only one, have
been sufficient to cure early
cases. More advanced ones may
require treatment night and
morning for two or three days.
A suitable Chloromycetin eye-
ointment, prepared originally for
human use, is available through
any retail chemist. A tube,
which costs a few shillings, con-
tains sufficient ointment to treat
six to eight affected eyes. It is
applied by squeezing about lin.
ribbon of ointment on to the
tip of the finger and gently
smearing it inside the lower lid
of the affected eye.
Beet for Pigs
“Old Nick”: Sugar-beet is
splendid for supplementing feed
for sows and store-pigs when
milk is short in winter. Yields
vary from 15 to 30 tons per acre.
There’s no wastage. The leaves
are palatable and the roots can
be pulled and fed when required.
Seed can be sown now.
As each sow needs two tons
and each store half a ton of
roots to see them over the
winter, half an acre will supply
enough for four or five sows
and their litters.
Though high in sugar content,
beet is low in the proteins, which
are vital to wintering pigs. To
make good this loss give in-pig
sows of meat-meal per day
with every 301 b. to 401 b. of roots.
For store-pigs of about 601 b.
weight allow to 11b. of meat-
meal to 81b. of beetroots per
day. For larger stores (weigh-
ing approximately 1001 b.) in-
crease the root-ration to 191 b.
Linseed, pea-meal, or any con-
centrate containing a high per-
centage of proteins, can be sub-
stituted for meat-meal.
Pine Seedlings
“Breck”: To produce sturdy
pine seedlings have the nursery-
bed well out in the open where
the young trees will get full sun-
shine and light, but not heavy
winds. Soil must be thoroughly
drained.
As these seedlings are sus-
ceptible to damping-off troubles
the minimum amount of water
only should be given them.
Scatter sulphur lightly over the
soil to forestall insect attacks ;
renew occasionally. To avoid
overcrowding thin out the bed
as seedlings develop. From 6ft.
to Bft. apart is good spacing for
pines. >
Nitrogen
“Myrr”: A deficiency of
nitrogen in lemon-trees is indi-
cated by leaf-yellowing, some-
times very pronounced along the
veins. The deficiency can be
overcome by applying sulphate-
of-ammonia annually (three or
four weeks before flowering) at
81b. per tree; organic manure
(six or seven weeks prior to
flowering): horse manure, 2cwt.
to 3cwt, per tree ; sheep manure,
1001 b.; fowl manure, 901 b.;
blood-and-bone, 251 b.; dried
blood, 161 b.
The organics are slower to act
than the sulphate-of-ammonia,
which is the reason for their
earlier application. The nitrogen
from these manures is available
to the tree over a much longer
period. -
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: To establish barrel
medic with a wheat crop sow
very shallowly and apply a
liberal dressing of super.
“Sundowner” : Poultry
manure collected from drop-
pings-boards or swept from con-
crete floors without litter is
worth 25 per cent, more than
similar manure carelessly saved.
The manure will have its maxi-
mum value if collected fre-
quently from boards and then
heaped on a concrete floor to
dry-out before bagging. Keep
dry until used, otherwise the
nitrogen and potash content is
quickly leached out.
“Springvale”: Warmth and
humidity, prevalent this year,
predispose tomatoes to Irish
blight. Get down on the insect-
carriers of the virus with D.D.T.
and and K.O. the disease
itself by using copper and
sulphur sprays. Late crops will
be subject also to fungus
diseases. Pull up and destroy
any plants showing symptoms
of wilt (spotted) or red-rust; if
they’re left, the entire crop will
be infected and ruined.
“Big Billy”: An electric
fence is useful for holding sheep
when the ground is moist and
the wool short. Barbed-wire is
necessary to give extra penetra-
tion of the fleece. Two wires
spaced at 6in. and 18in. above
ground will do.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Over most of Australia the weather is now likely to be
neutral except for some further rains in the tropics and
along the southern littoral. The main cyclical interest,
however, is in coastal New South Wales, where all the known
cycles show some heavy rains to come shortly.
The cycles now operating seem to be the Crohamhurst
cycles, and both show very heavy rains in those areas and
perhaps strongest in Sydney itself. The important Nep-
tunian cycle, repeating 1788, speaks of heavy rain in July
and August.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Farmers and the Army
A general had to go to a N. S. Wales
country town the other day to settle a
row between the Army and local land-
holders, Gist of the complaints was that
soldiers on manoeuvres were destroying
property, frightening cattle, causing mis-
breeding of stock, and exploding smoke
grenades near schoolchildren.
The general’s trip should not have
been necessary. In the first place soldiers
who are larrikins in uniform are ill-
trained. In the second place, what are
Australian soldiers doing training in culti-
vated and pastoral country?
Any foreseeable war in which Aus-
tralians are likely to take part is far
more likely to be fought either in jungles
or in deserts. Army manoeuvres should
be carried out in the interior or in
northern Queensland, where something
similar to possible conditions can be ex-
perienced.
Far too many palatial camps are being
built near capital cities Or in developed
areas merely to enable those called-up to
live a life of luxury during their term of
service.
These camps are wasteful of material,
money and land. They should be sited
in undeveloped areas where the amenities
brought by Army occupation could pos-
sibly help in settlement. Manoeuvres
could be held in undeveloped country
where damage to stock and property
should be nil, and engineering battalions
could lay down much needed railways
and roads as part of their Army training.
—Woe Wun (Q.).
Red Cedar
Congratulations to John J, Alderson
for his article on planting red cedar (B.
25/3/’53) —I have seen the examples he
mentions on the Atherton Tableland. As
he says, this tree will not flourish in pure
stands, but whenever any tree is cut in
the natural forests, a red cedar seedling
should replace it. Naturally, such re-
planting is expensive, but just look at the
returns which will follow in 30 years’
time. The last quote which I received
from a North Queensland timber-miller
for red cedar was £7 per hundred super,
feet at the mill, with the warnings that
it might be a year before a log of it
was brought in and that there was a
long waiting list.
Today, cabinetmakers eagerly compete
for any old cedar counters, tables, cup-
boards, etc., which come on the market.
They use the timber from them to make-
up special orders for furniture. The
timber is everlasting, is borer-proof and
has a beauty of grain equal to the finest
San Domingo mahogany.
It is incorrect to think that this tree —
which is ornamental as well as valuable
—will grow only in the tropics. It has
been used for street-planting as far south
as Adelaide, It could be planted—
always as odd trees a few hundred yards
apart—all the way down the coastal belt
of heavy rainfall from Cooktown to
below Port Kembla.
To give some idea of the value of a
mature cedar tree: in North Queensland
I saw a small log, cut from a tree no
more than 30 years old, put across the
sawbench. At the then price of £5 per
100 super, feet, it yielded £4O-worth of
timber. The owner of the mill remarked;
“We could have taken at least another
£ 15-worth of timber out of this log if
I’d had one of those modern bandsaws.
With the circular saw I’m using, more
than a quarter of an inch of timber is
chewed into sawdust at each cut.”
Two minutes spent with a pencil should
convince anyone that planting, say, 500
red cedar trees here and there on forest
land too steep for any other purpose,
and then keeping the regrowth down
around them until the saplings start to
reach for the sky, will give a far better
return than any life-insurance policy.
There are no premiums to pay save the
initial cost of the seedlings, the time
taken to plant them out and the time
spent once a year in slashing down the
ferns and other rubbish around them
until they can look after themselves.
And what a chance it offers to shire
councils? As Miss Jocelyn Henderson,
of Robertson, N.S.W., has been pointing
out for about 20 years, in the Jura
district of France the community forests,
planted on every bit of waste ground and
along ail fhe roadsides, not only give
sufficient return to lift the entire burden
of annual rates from the population, but
also a surplus each year, distributed to
the people in the form of a cash bonus
paid to every man, woman and child.—
Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Trees and Rain
Rainfall over forested areas definitely
exceeds that over non- or poorly-forested
areas (B. 25/3/’53).
One scientific explanation is that rain-
laden clouds passing over treeless areas
are kept high by the hot air which rises
from the unprotected and unshaded land.
Where land is even lightly timbered the
cooler air loses some of its buoyancy
“You can't take that piece , sir — that's my thumb."
and the clouds drop, precipitating some
of their contents as rain.
I’ve long believed that the “dead
heart” could be made to live and its
rainfall increased by the planting of 50-
mile-wide strips of trees, starting from
the marginal areas and working inwards.
It would be a long-term programme, but
it would be worth a trial, since it would
be the exact opposite of the practice in
Australia over the last 150 years.
Incidentally, during the war, some
cheerful soul suggested that Germany
could be turned into a desert by the use
of thousands of incendiary bombs on
that country’s forests. The trees
destroyed, the rain would cease to fall
and the whole of a drought-stricken and
desert Germany would be easy for the
allied nations. —No Sirrah (Q.).
Lost Workers
“Thinkit’s” reasons for the disappear-
ance of so many jobs (B. 25/3/,’53) do
"I think she's overdoing it!"
not exhaust the list. During the war and
after, employers had to get along with
the absolute minimum of labor, and the
habit, once formed, seems to be hard to
break.
Another cause, and one that will soon
have to he faced, is the old-age pension
plus means test. Once the older man
looked round for a light job as
gardener, cowboy or the like, that was
not beyond his powers. Now, at 65, he
hastens to dissipate savings, if any,
so that he may retire on the pension.
In fact, it is represented in some quarters
as his duty to do so. As so many now
live long past that age (60 for women,
who live longer than men) that we are
getting an increasing arniy of those wno
merely consume the fruits of other men s
toil. Some form of national insurance
might be the logical answer, but what is
wrong with a graduated pension scale.
The average man of 65-70 should be
free of dependants (except his wife), and
have his own home and some savings. He
is still capable of supporting two people
if a reasonably light job is available.
Also statistics show that idleness will
shorten his life. Beyond 70 he finds he
can do less and loses more days through
sickness until, by about 80, it is unreason-
able to expect him to earn more than
pocket-money. So why not start him off
with, say, 10s. a week at 65, raising it
every five years until it reaches full
pension at 80? The money thus saved
should make it possible to abolish the
means test. Pensions would carry no tax
concession except the present age allow-
ance, so those with substantial incomes
probably would not bother to apply, at
least until well past 65.
No doubt the plan would raise a howl
from some quarters, but the burden of
pension payments is growing every year
as life-expectation increases. We need
many more workers and, in the meantime,
pensioners are becoming a dangerous
pressure group. No Government will be
able to resist indefinitely their demands
for a pension of half the basic wage, plus
abolition of the means test. The sooner
we do something about the problem the
better. — Magnoon (Q.).
“Thinkit’s” suggestion that paddocks,
fences, sheds and flower-beds are suffer-
ing because of excess taxation is so much
nonsense.
No farmer is so heavily taxed that he
cannot afford to de-burr his paddocks,
straighten his sagging fences and paint
his sheds. In any case, expenditure on
wages for such work is deductable, as
anyone should know.
The same applies to the three missing
gardeners in “Thinkit’s” factory. Their
wages were part of the general wages
bill and would reduce the amount of
profit upon which the firm had to pay
tax.
“Thinkit” should know that untidy
paddocks, sagging fences and tottering
and unpainted sheds have always been
a feature of the Australian countryside,
and will always remain so in the near-
city areas where many farmers, particu-
larly dairyfarmers, are allowed to hold
and waste much more land than they
are willing to use to its best and fullest
advantage.
As for his works gardeners, gardening,
until recently, has always been an under-
paid profession. With “full employ-
ment,” gardeners are hard to get and,
if they are employed, expect a decent
wage.
Probably the directors or management
of “Thinkit’s” firm have decided that, if
they cannot have beautification on the
cheap, they won’t have it at all.—R. H. N.
(Q-). __
Dairyfarmers
“Quaero” (B. 4/3/’53) makes the usual
error of city men in failing to concede
that the farmer is entitled to a reason-
able return on his‘ invested capital, as
well as a fair wage for himself and for
his wife, or any other member of his
family from whom he receives “a bit of
help.”
If the farmer and his wife are milking
40 cows twice daily, as well as growing
fodder-crops and doing all other jobs
incidental to dairying, the “bit of help”
will entail much more than 40 hours per
week, without either of them indulging in
any profitable sidelines or other business.,
If the farm returns an income of £lOOO
to £l2OO in a good season, that approxi-
mates the basic-wage for two adults. But
what of the farmer’s capital? If he owns
a sufficient area to feed his 40 milkers, as
Well as dry cows and heifers, plus the
milking herd and necessary working plant,
he ha§ an invested capital of something
like £15,000, which should be earning
interest either for himself or his bankers.
And you can add rates and taxes, insur-
ance, depreciation of improvements and
plant, registration of car or utility—a
necessary item of every farmer’s plant—
and provision for an occasional lean year
at another £lOOO or £l2OO per annum
on the capital account.
The net result is that, on “Quaere’s”
own figures, his typical dairyfarmer and
wife are each receiving about the basic-
wage for their 365 days’ labor a year,
and no interest on their investment, or
else about 5 p.c. net on the capital, and
nothing for their labor.
If “Quaero” is able to buy an estab-
lished herd he may get a< fair return for
either his capital or his labor, but not for
both. If he has to buy heifers to build
up a herd he will find that many years of
careful breeding and heavy culling are
necessary to attain high production.
My experience of dairying was
acquired the hard way, and, having had
the opportunity of examining the income-
returns of many dairy and other farmers
over the past few years. I’ve failed to find
one outside the city milk zone who
showed a reasonable return for both his
labor and his invested capital.
In more than one case the head of the
family has returned a taxable income
only by paying his or her sons a wage
which amounted merely to pocket-money.
In one instance a farmer left his dairy
and took a bus-driver’s job in the city.
Another came to the city and worked in
a factory. Each returned a higher income
in his new 40-hour job than he had been
able to average in the previous five years
as a self-employed farmer.
The owner of one of the best farms
on the South Coast of N. S. Wales, with
a pure-bred dairy-herd, lately gave up
paying wages, which were absorbing an
undue proportion of his gross income, and
retired to live in town, letting his farm
and herd, in two portions, tc share-
farmers. He .now returns a higher net
income than he averaged previously, as
each tenant, with “a bit of help” from
wife and family, is more efficient than
hired labor. —Delta (N.S.W.).
Merino Embargo
South Africa is as large as Queens-
land and has a population of 10 nullion
or so. They have had sheep for 3Uu
years, so if their country isn’t fully
stocked what have they been doing id-
-25/3/’53)? The same applies to me
Argentine. „ , TT .
As for the lands north of the Union,
they are about as suitable for sheep as
New Guinea, I have before me a copy
of the S. African “Merino Breeders
Journal” and in it are 17 studs adver is
ing pure-bred Austin Wanganella bl
rams, and the photos show pretty gooa
rams, too. The cheap labor is m
overrated, and the S.A. farmer doesnt
enjoy cutting wool prices any more tna
WO dO. . rr. c „ w
A Queensland veterinary officer
Rambouillet sheep in Sonora,
Mexico, that cut 131 b.. of fine wool per
head. When you consider that the Ram
bouillet is a good mutton sheep and
mostly has twins at lambing it seem,
time we imported a few.—J.R-L. to-


The Black Police
I think I can claim to be the last of
the survivors of the officers who were in
charge of Native Mounted Police in
Queensland (B. 28/l/’53), although I
was only Constable 539 when put in
charge of a six-trooper detachment at
the remote post of Turn Off Lagoon, 80
miles nor’-west of Burketown.
My father, then inspector of white
police with a district stretching from
Normanton to Camooweal, via Turn Off
Lagoon, was the main reason for my
change from back-country cattleman and
garb of moles, Crimean shirt and
cabbage-tree hat to that of tight riding-
breeches, Napoleon boots, etc. —the etc.
only when you turned up in the saltpan
city or some station homestead.
Betimes the only raiment was a pair of
pants and, for the troopers, their
bandoliers (heavy Martini rifles had, by
1898, superseded the old Snider). For
myself a neat Positive .32 revolver and
cartridge belt.
Edward Parry-Okeden was Commis-
sioner at the time, and bush natives on
Upper Nicholson River and out towards
the Macarthur (N.T.) country were giving
a bit of trouble, as were sundry whites
who used the practically uninhabited
Turn Off track to make for Darwin or
the Kimberleys.
Malay dugong-fishers visited the shores
60 miles north of Burketown, and their
association with mainland natives was
undesirable. They encouraged our abos
to go a bit inland and kill station cattle
for beef, rewarding them with various
cheap ornaments for the gins and knives
and suchlike for the bucks.
It was impressed on me that the fire-
arms were really a bluff, and they were —
if you could use them with sufficient
accuracy to scare without causing injury,
I went over to South Africa to see
what Oom Paul was growling about
and, afterwards, rejoined the N.M.P. I
was patrol-officer of the Cape York
Peninsula detachment of Native Police.
It was tough going, with, murders,
maroonings and whatnot up at the top of
the Cape and lost or sick prospectors any-
where round the gold area. Business was
brisk enough, and the N.M.P. were
appreciated for their ability to handle
funerals.
A lot has been written of bloodthirsty
deeds by those native police and it has
lost nothing in the telling. Old-time black
brother of the bush was nobody’s fool
when it came to guerrilla warfare, and it
took him no time to decide .the type of
man he was up against.
My father, the late Captain R. Kyle
Little, a Crimean and Indian Mutiny
veteran, was among the early N.M.P.
officers. He formed the first camp on
the Walsh River in the Palmer goldfield
days with John White, afterwards In-
spector of white police in Brisbane, as
his sub. In the very earlies, Poin-
destre ran the show at the top end of
York Peninsula. Then came the fairly
big detachment at Coen, 240 miles south ;
then Musgrave, 70 miles lower; then
Laura, a like distance and about 70 miles
n.-w. of Cooktown. Finally, in 1913 or
later, came the “Eight-mile” (outside
Cooktown).
One by one they faded out as the
natives became tamer and their numbers
were reduced by various diseases—
leprosy was pretty common on both the
Burketown and the York Peninsula.
Other old-time N.M.P. camps were
those of a big detachment under my father,
who had a well-laid-out camp near the
little townlet of Bedourie and whose
tombstone is somewhere in the sandhills
of that gibber-and-sand corner of Birds-
vilie. Another military man had a camp
at McKinlay on Diamantina Waters —
Captain Sharp, who ended his own life.
Not much has been said of the humani-
tarian side of those long, arduous bush
patrols—men saved from death by thirst
and others who got a Christian burial
in all manner of remote spots. Their
history would make a book.
Those old-time sub-inspectors of the
N.M.P. ruled their troopers by military
discipline and really made a good job of
it. They were not, however, bushmen,
and the best way to get wherever they
went was to let the black corporal lead
his troop. The man who had real power
over troopers and bush native alike was
the chap who could lead them, and those
troopers would follow him anywhere,
whatever the risk.
De la Pour Beresford, sub-inspector of
an early detachment over the Leichhardt
River out Cloncurry way, together with
his troopers, was slaughtered by the Kul-
kadoon tribe from the rugged hills of
Gunpowder Creek. Beresford mistrusted
his troopers and each night made them
stack their old Snider rifles in his tent.
It was an easy win for the Kulkadoon
warriors.
I’ve ridden all of what used to be
called the “nigger country,” from Burke-
town to west of Darwin and the inland
“Champagne cocktail—perhaps you and the chappies will join me.”
of the West and N.T. Mainly because
of lack of understanding the complex
nature of our abos, a useful and intelli-
gent race of humans has been practically
wiped out. —J. K. Little (Q.).
Pioneer North Queensland pastoralist
Robert Gray, of Hughenden, did not
think that the conduct of the North
Queensland Mounted Police —“the Black
Police” —was indefensible (B. 11/3/’53).
He considered they did a necessary job,
the natives in most parts of North
Queensland being fierce and treacherous.
Gray was no roughneck, but an ex-
Indian Army officer of high character.
A similar opinion of the black police
and the character of the North Queens-
land aborigines was expressed by another
fine pioneer settler, Alexander Kennedy,
and can be read in Hudson Fysh’s book
about him, Taming the Norths
Gray, in a book of Recollections of
India and North Queensland, wrote:
Much has been written about the
iniquities perpetrated by the native police
in the early stages of colonisation in North
Queensland, more particularly by those
who had no personal experience of what
was going on at the time. I have no
hesitation in saying that it is difficult to
see how a poor and scattered population
of white people could have continued to
occupy the country with flocks and herds
if an organised body of black police under
European officers had not been available to
protect them.
Police-officers of that day had a difficult
duty to perform. It was essential that the
blacks should be prevented from destroy-
ing life and property if white people were
to be allowed to occupy the country. This
could not be done without a certain amount
of bloodshed. In some instances, no doubt,
the punishment dealt out to the aborigines,
not only by the police, but by settlers, may
have been too drastic, but some of the
stories that have been related will be taken
with a grain of salt by those who were in
North Queensland in the ’6o’s or 70’s.
KANIMBLA (N.S.W.).
The Parking Problem
Open-air parking is the only certain
cure for today’s parking problem, so
ant-like is the motor car becoming. But
the specially constructed parking-station
down in the bowels of the earth or up in
the skies is a valuable palliative.
Open-air parking is the quickest in
operation and the most economical. It
satisfies all, except the fuss-pot who con-
fuses a car with an only child. It is
cheap, because of negligible construction-
overhead, and permits a layout generous
enough for the in-and-out manoeuvring
of a car to he undertaken by its own
driver. That saves the further overhead
of wages of attendants who habitually
sardine-pack cars in garages, playing
merry hell with the steering-gear and
wheel alignment. It is surprising that
open-air parking is not an everyday affair
in growing Australian cities, blessed as
they mostly are with broad acres as yet
not built on.
While the one real solution to the
parking problem is the open-air parking
lot, in cities lacking open space under-
ground parking stations or the skyscrap-
ing Park-O-Mat can give some relief.
Many and loud were the pangs and pro-
tests of the aesthetic and the nearby busi-
ness houses when Union Square Park,
small but neat, was lifted bodily and a
huge hole bulldozed in San Francisco’s
heart. The park was replaced over four
staggered parking storeys and now is no
less attractive than before. Motorists
and nearby businessmen jointly applaud
it.
Oddly enough, Australian bureaucracy
tends to brand underground parking pro-
posals as potential white elephants. The
truth is that the Union Square parking-
station in San Francisco is a highly suc-
cessful venture. Originally the syndicate
underwriting the enterprise promised a
return of capital to subscribers in 25
years. On current progess, they should
have their money back well within 17-18
years. Further proof lies in the fact that
private enterprise is currently building
another underground parking-station in
San Fancisco and two in Los Angeles.
A novel slender tower recently shot up
towards the sky-line in Washington,
U.S.A. Probably the tallest and narrowest
industrial building in the world, this
garage is the latest attempt to find a
place to park in a city crawling with cars.
It parks 72 cars on ground space that
would ordinarily accommodate only nine.
It has no ramps, elevators or ianeways.
One attendant controls the whole thing by
pushing buttons. The patron vacates his
car at the entrance. By pushing an
appropriate button the attendant runs a
dolly under the car and whisks it away
to a pre-selected spot somewhere way up
above. It takes less than a minute for
the car to go up or come down.
Those who know Washington realise
how jealous are its civic fathers of their
skyline. How urgent it is to get cars off
the streets is evidenced in officialdom’s
readiness to allow the Park-O-Mat to
climb skywards when all else in the
District of Columbia is pegged much
below the height of the Washington and
Lincoln Memorials and the Capitol. It
is on record that 22 building and zoning
laws were amended to permit the con-
striiction.-
LEN. KING (Q.).
A Last Word
Sorry “Armorer” (B. 25/3/’53), but I
never claimed that the Minie bullet or
the rifle of that name was British, but
the cylindro-conoidal bullet was a British
invention. Minie perfected the idea.
As far back as 1823, Captain Norton,
of the British 34th Regiment, designed a
cylindro-conoidal bullet with a hollow
base, so that when fired it would auto-
matically expand and seal the bore. Fol-
lowing him. Greener, a gunsmith, in 1836
improved upon Norton’s idea by inserting
a conoidal wooden plug in its base.
Both of those inventions were rejected
by the conservative minds in the British
War Office, but in 1849, Minie, working
on Greener’s design, produced the Minie
bullet. Thereupon it was adopted by the
British Government, and a rifle of the
Minie pattern was issued to the British
Army in 1851.
My authority is Major-General I. F. C.
Fuller’s Armament and History. In an
official paper entitled “The Secret of
Victory,” he wrote:
“Napoleon was an infinitely greater
general than Lord Raglan; yet Lord
Raglan would, in 1855, have beaten any
army Napoleon could have led against
him, because Lord Raglan’s men were
armed with the Minie rifle.
“Eleven years after Inkerman, Moltke
would have beaten Lord Raglan’s army
hollow, not because he was a greater
soldier than Lord Raglan, but because
his men were armed with the needle gun.”
The Minie rifle was used by British
troops before the Crimean War. British
infantry first used it in the Kaffir War
of 1852, when Kaffirs could be “dis-
persed” at a range of from twelve to
thirteen hundred yards. Fortesque,
in his History of the British Army, com-
pares the hitting power of the 1842 per-
cussion musket and the Minie rifle. For
the musket, the percentage of hits at 100
yards was 74.5 to the Minie’s 94.5; at
200 yards, 42.5 to 80; at 300 yards, 16
to 55; and at 400 yards 4.5 to 52.5 per
cent. — Clem Lack (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 221
Across
I—Petrolatum1 —Petrolatum row of flower holders?
(8)
s—Dropped5—Dropped off to do the last letter.
(5)
9 Don’t go, Kelly, when made with-
out ferment. (10)
10— A leg immediately. (4)
12— A steer minced a tricky prob-
lem. (6)
13— Resounding Italian king, an off-
spring, and an insect. (8)
15 — Vessel brings six to Jolson by
way of fifty. (4)
16— Dying to be at this adored host
who is disorderly. (6, 4)
18—Pavers who stop snakes? (10)
20—Its fare is chosen, not collected,
by its conductor. (4)
23 One crippled like promenades.
(8)
24 — Goatish island century. (6)
27 Goodbye, and thanks a lot. (4)
28— The king-emperor, a sailor and
a lion tamer go to a “shivpo”
when the music is slackening.
(10)
29 Poet to the French hide-out. (5)
30 — Heavenly heater dehydrates the
■ extras. (8)
Down
1— Jump in the cellar. (5)
2 Princess found in fruit-cake. (7)
3 Behold the birds amours about
one baker’s output. (6)
4 Coward upsets a French boy. (4)
6 Gipsy. (7)
7 Having false-teeth about one
made unfit for eating or drink-
ing. (9)
8 — Although sitting much, this
takes Adam and Eve home with
a sailor in a steam-yacht. (9)
11 —Duck among the fair in knightly
combat. (5)
14 — A real wit’s steamer of (Jie Aus-
tralian trade. (9)
15 — Vessel goes with a current
beverage in the milky way. (3, 6)
17—Sauce from this prank. (5)
19—Sowed in a plot with Edward.
(7)
21 — A monkey and I in Mount
Cook. (7)
22 City gives father the sack. (6)
25 — The peevish go over and see the
bearer of bad tidings to Macduff.
(5)
26 — Rising up at one of Alfred Hill’s
operas in which you strike first.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 220


:S:v
m
tm.
y> :■ ■'■■:■■■:■
: :
»ii«
liiiiil
' 'l.,': ■•:■••:: :
■
i * x*
®;®wXvX<™xXv!y
■Hi
mmm
PpwP****
■-...
■ :•
■:WSWr¥
a;
sssSs
■
>:■:- • -: :
■:• -
-
• •.
>!:*■:
' i
.
• i
■
• .
-
■
m
■
7 iA*
m
■
: -
:;•■••-•
m
$X v.-*-
V •*?:•:•
■■• ..
» * «
: xo:^x : : : :-: ; ;’: : x : : ; ; : ; x : : ; : : ; : : : : ; : : xx Xv
• S
*
arab* v
itaNi
asi®
mm
WM '
' y$ „ •
i :
' vX. -■*' V ' V ' *
-*' V ' - : '>; 'v?, x.
■Si
i \ v -\i
:•<: •>»
i:': : :::‘ :: ' • .s' <J' m
8*?
7S: ; ::
v '■ > •'■
• <: • :■:>';
I s
'
; ‘ |
M
'' wi
y-y
;. , ■ :■
m
yy
■:■:■ yy':
■
m
‘ &$*«&?
-.-v '■•
mm
m
: :
"-•••:• ;
mm
x ■;•: •
'--. :v v- ; : v ;; : ;:
mr~
■
m
ww>^%Xv:<v;v>
so
>; ; S ■..
8888 ?
3888888 S
■
»ii
is?
H
«
i &
When noted author and radio broadcaster Frank Clune
departed Melbourne recently, on his 15,000 mile journey
round Australia, he chose C.O.R for his iolden car
to use his own words, “It’s the right spirit . . . too right,
I like C.O.R’ 5
Gathering material for his new book, “Land of
Australia, 55 Mr. Clune will travel in the wake of our
famous explorers first to Perth, thence via Broome
and through the Kimberleys to Darwin, to Burketown
on the Gulf of Carpentaria, to Mt. Isa, Brisbane, Sydney
and Melbourne. He expects to complete the journey in
80 to 100 days.
Frank Chine’s choice of ■ motor spirit is significant
... a man of the people, he chose C.O.R, the choice
of the people.
FRANK
(Roaming Round Australia)
CLI :
FILL FROM THE RED, WHITE & BLUE PUMP AT
AN
fIIKKHEIIT
SERVICE STATION a
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Proprietors: Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C135/6101
Q 1 «-«■ 1 >. j* [ * *
Uifinn
o < ■-. v ■■ ' it*r.
~. v*/, o'.^Bfeafrj'-u
