

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE
The Bulletin
MENTAL HOSPITALS TODAY
“The Bulletin,” Vol, 74—No. 3829
Wednesday, July 1, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
BUCKINGHAM PALACE, LONDON
IN peace, in' war and in times of national rejoicing the nation turns to
Buckingham Palace, the symbol of an imperishable monarchy. For one
hundred and fifteen years this famous building has been the London home of
British Sovereigns, ever since Queen Victoria first took up residence there.
On her Coronation day, June 28th, 1838, at the age of nineteen Queen
Victoria drove from the Palace to her Coronation in Westminster Abbey,
passing beneath Marble Arch, which, at that time, stood in front of the Grand
Entrance to Buckingham Palace. On her return she stood on the balcony
outside the large central window of the Palace and acknowledged the cheers
of her people. Since that time successive Sovereigns have on many historic
occasions stood on the balcony and acknowledged the loyalty of their subjects.
There, also, on Coronation Day, 1953, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
appeared before a vast multitude of people after the ceremony at Westminster
Abbey to share the joy of her people on that day of national rejoicing
throughout the British Empire and Commonwealth of Nations.
Among the many magnificent rooms within the Palace is the impressive
Throne Room in its setting of crystal and gold, surrounded, by a marble
frieze representing the Wars of the Roses and it is there that the State
Investitures are held.
On the western side of the Palace are the spacious lawns, the gardens and
the ornamental lake occupying an area of forty acres which is the scene of
the Royal Garden Parties which are held there annually.


HOME-STUDY COURSES...
STOTT’S can prepare you—in your OWN
HOME—for a SUCCESSFUL CAREER or
for PROMOTION in your present sphere.
Mail the Coupon today.
Shofthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/ Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs')
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
è
1.00 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray S.t., Perth. •
CUT AM) MAIL THIS COUPON ———-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars' of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(5.8.558) AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P-O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, aho in' bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
THE EVEREST STORY
Until Hillary, Tensing Bhutia, Colonel
Hunt, or some other member of the
present expedition writes a book about
the conquest of Everest there could be
no finer substitute than W. H. Murray’s
The Story of Everest, just published,
with a nice sense of timing, by Dent.
Murray was deputy-leader of the 1951
Everest expedition, which, though it had
a couple of shots at the summit, was
primarily concerned with reconnaissance
—to discover whether it would be pos-
sible to reach the summit from the south
col (or shoulder), approaching through
Nepal, since so many previous attempts
up the steep rock-face of the north had
failed. They pioneered, in fact, the route
on which Hillary and Tensing climbed to
their triumph.
Hillary was a member of that 1951
expedition and makes a few brief but
immensely interesting appearances in
Murray’s story:
Hillary and Riddiford [another New
Zealander] had been climbing during the
summer in western Garhwal and turned
out to be excellent men.... Shipton and
Hillary [after the parly had broken-up for
a while to explore other Himalayan peaks]
had arrived back at Everest five days before
us. They had gone straight to the ice-fall
and re-established camp at its foot on 20th
and 21st October. Next day with
Antharkay and Utsering they stamped a
safe track up the first thousand feet of the
fall. On the 23rd they went up again to
complete the route to the top, but just
beyond the previous day’s limit they found
that a very great change had overtaken
the glacier. It looked as though an atom-
bomb had been dropped on it. Over a
wide area the seracs had collapsed in
shattered ruins and the very surface-struo-
ture of the glacier was threatening further
collapse into a deepening and opening
abyss.
On a hundred feet of rope Hillary made
an effort to cut a way through the tumbled
blocks. One of the blocks f ell with a long
roar into the underlying chasm and the area
on which they stood trembled as though
in an earthquake. The Sherpas threw them-
selves to the ground in terror. That the
two sahibs remained standing, said Shipton
afterwards, was due only to their having
been brought up in the European conven-
tion.
However, Murray isn’t mainly con-
cerned with his own party’s attempt on
Everest in this book—it makes only a
short chapter at the end—but with all
the attempts that have been made.
Clearly, compactly and dramatically, in
an excellent prose-style, he tells the
whole history of the mountain since
men first tried to climb it—which is not
at all long ago, unless the Abominable
Snowmen have made a habit of prowling
so high.
Apparently the local Tibetans and
Nepalese, though forced to be good
mountaineers if they were to trade and
travel in their high countries, never in
all the centuries thought of climbing the
mountain for fun, or for whatever deeper
motive takes the European climber so
far up in the world. Even in Europe
Mont Blanc wasn’t climbed until 1786 ;
and not until 1854, says Murray, had
mountaineering developed into a sport.
It is, maybe, a mark of the very high
degree of civilisation reached by some of
the European, and particularly the British,
peoples: the national spirit of adventure
no longer seeks its outlet in aggressive
war but in climbing mountains or march-
ing to the Pole ; exploits which require
none of the worst elements of warfare,
and all the best —comradeship, supreme
effort and endurance, devotion without
fear of death.
British mountaineers began talking
about Everest in the ’nineties. In 1907
the Alpine Club wanted to send an ex-
pedition under Arnold Mumm, but the
Secretary of State for India said “No”
—“He was trying to conclude a treaty
with Russia and wanted no suspicious
movements reported from Asia.”
Renewed requests were refused for the
next five years,; then came World War I;
and it was not until 1921, British permis-
sion having been obtained and the Dalai
Lama having alSo agreed to allow entry
into “the Bird Country of the South,”
lying “west of the Five Treasuries of Great
Snow, within the jurisdiction of White
Glass Fort,” that an expedition was at last
sent out under Colonel Howard-Bury. It
was to make a reconnaissance so that an
attack on the summit could be
the following year. One of tf
was Dr. Kellas, who was to die
failure on the way through
other was George Leigh >
was to perish on a subs
at the summit and wb
attractive personality w.
membered when the Evv
told:
Mallory ranked as one of tm
Alpinists in England. His easy rhythu
movement on rock was fascinating to watut
—never was he seen to “struggle.” He
accomplished all with a grace that dis-
tinguished both body and mind. He wrote
well and loved poetry. He set himself high
ideals. His appearance was arresting, for
he bad beauty of face enlivened by personal
charm and an urgent vitality. Fortunately
he appeared unconscious of these graces.
The party travelled through the high
Tibetan plateau, a desert of red-brown
sand and rock where the wild ass and
wild sheep pick at the scanty herbage or
fatten on the wildflowers that come with
the monsoon rain. Kellas, his strength
overtaxed by too much Himalayan climb-
ing earlier in the year, died in the pass
by the fort of Kampa Dzong at 17,200 ft.
From Kellas’s grave they had their first
view of Everest, 29,002 ft, high, through
the clouds; in Mallory’s words, “like a
prodigious white fang excrescent from
the jaw of the world.
They went on past- the White Glass
Fort, with its monastery and its villagers
who had never before seen Europeans.
In the Rongbuk Valley draining the
glaciers of Everest’s north face they came
to a Circean oasis of flowers—-yellow
asters and rhododendrons in a green
meadow —where, says Murray, “the
desire to lie back and receive beauty in
idleness can become well-nigh over-
whelming.”
On past the Rocky Valley Inner
Monastery, which is sixteen miles from
Everest; past the hermits’ cells which
are the last habitation of man; and so,
at no more than 18,000 ft., climbing up
the Rongbuk glacier to see what could
be done with Everest’s west ridge, to
their first defeat:
Mallory and Bullock set off at 3.15 a.m„
tramping under a full moon and stars
towards the greatest mountain in the world.
That first day gave them a foretaste of
close-quarter work in the Himalaya. The
climbers were assailed all the while by
despairing lassitude... .They decided to go
no farther. They were feeling mountain-
sick, that is, unnaturally fatigued, due in
great part to the lack of oxygen. To keep
that fatigue at bay they had" to breathe
deeply and rhythmically, and they had to
do it consciously. Nor were they yet in
really good physical training.
They explored the eastern approaches
as they had explored the western, saw the
footprint of an Abominable Snowman,
decided that there was a route to the
summit by way of the north col, and set
out to see if they could climb it. But
by now it was late in the season, and:
Clouds of spindrift were careering across
the great north face, shooting up for a
moment where the wind struck the ridge,
then hurtling down the flank to leeward.
It made a fearsome sight. They exposed
themselves to the blast by way of* experi-
ment, and hurried back to shelter. No
further advance was possible.. . .The
reconnaissance was ended.
The second expedition went out in
1922 under General Charles Bruce, “a
benign bulldog.” Mallory was again in
the party. They found that they could
get frostbite and sunstroke simul-
taneously while climbing “the murderous
and threatening monster.” They learned
curious things about the human mind in
high altitudes —how some definite goal
had to be fixed before the party set out.
otherwise the will to go on would fail
and “their minds would fix on no par-
ticular point as being desirable.”
Mallory and three others tried to
reach the summit, turning back ex-
hausted and frostbitten, in the know-
ledge that they were travelling too slowly
to do the journey in daylight, at 26,700 ft.
On the way down three men slipped,
roped together, and went “flashing down
the slope, straight towards the east Rong-
buk glacier 3500 ft. below.” Mallory,
hitching the rope round his axe-head and
throwing his full weight on the axe, was
able to check the glissade. Afterwards,
to reach their tents, they had to slide
down a rope which had been fixed on
a 15ft. ice-wall; their candle-lantern
burnt out and the rope was buried deep
out of sight in the snow. It was
11.30 p.m. before they crawled' into
shelter, to find that the porters had taken
away all their pots for melting-down
snow’, and. since they could not eat at
that altitude without drinking, they had
to go supperless to their sleeping-bags.
Two other members of the party,
George Finch and Geoffrey Bruce, with
Lance-Corporal Tejbir of the Gurkhas,
tried for the summit a few days later.
They made camp at 25,500 ft. and, caught
in a hurricane, had to fight for their lives
for 18 hours—“ With such ferocity did
the wind tear at the tent that again and
again the sewn-in groundsheet and the
men on top were lifted off the ground at
one side or the other *... Had the hurri-
~*e managed to get a grip of the whole
,( h of the groundsheet the guys
have been torn out and the tent
d with its occupants down to the
aer.” They could have returned to
-f’ety in the afternoon when the storm
abated, but decided to stay another night;
and next day they tried for the summit
again. Bruce’s oxygen apparatus broke
down and he became exhausted. They
turned back at 27,300 ft., half a mile from
the summit, so close that “they were able
to pick out individual boulders lying
just under it.”
This party was to have one more very
terrible adventure. They thought that
the monsoon might allow them just one
more chance at the summit before it
began to melt the snows. The Dalai
Lama, who had had a vision of an acci-
dent, warned them to quit the mountain.
But they started to set-up high camps
again, and the whole party was climbing
up a steep slope on four ropes when an
avalanche swept them all away: seven of
the Sherpa porters perished, smothered
or crushed beneath an ice-cliff. Murray
says that none of the Europeans-—all of
whom survived the avalanche—felt any
sensation of speed as they were rushing
in the tide of snow down the mountain-
side: “Each man continued struggling to
keep to the surface-layer; he was
conscious of nothing save his own
struggle amid tumbling snow.”
In 1924 a third expedition renewed the
attack. General Bruce was the leader
again, but went down with malaria in
Tibet and handed over to Colonel
Norton. Three other men who had been
high before were in the party —Mallory,
Somervell and Geoffrey Bruce —and a
newcomer who was greatly to distinguish
himself was N. E. Odell.
Somervell and Norton tried for the
summit, a flock of choughs keeping them
surprising company as they made their
way up the steep and slippery rock-slabs
of the north-face. Somervell was stopped
by fits of painful coughing, and Norton,
though “seeing double,” not through
snow-blindness but because of lack of
oxygen, climbed on alone till forced to
return at 28,126 ft. It took him a full
hour to climb only a hundred feet higher
than Somervell. Norton was snow-blind
when they got back to their Camp V, and
Somervell, on the way down, nearly died
from choking with an obstruction in his
throat.
Immediately on their return Mallory
and Irvine renewed the assault; and were
last seen alive by Odell, who followed
them in support and who subsequently,
had he not been searching for their
bodies, could probably have made the
summit:
Odell felt so energetic that he deliberately
climbed a 100-foot crag, which he could
easily have avoided, in order to test his
powers at 26,000 feet. Just as he reached
the top the cloud-screen lifted from the
whole summit ridge. His eyes at once fell
upon a tiny figure on a snow-slope directly
under a rock step on the ridge. As he
watched, a second figure moved up to the
first, and then the first climbed the step.
Immediately afterwards clouds swept over
the scene and he never saw Mallory or
Irvine again At two o’clock he arrived
at Camp VI. The weather was now
worsening. The wind had risen and a
blizzard raged across the face.
It has been believed —or hoped—that
Mallory and Irvine got to the summit
before they perished ; but Hillary’s climb
seems to have settled that theory, for
according to the newspaper reports he
found no trace of the dead men. The
likeliest explanation, which Murray sub-
mits, is that one man slipped on the rock-
face, perhaps not long after Odell saw
them, and dragged the other to his death.
Though rope was no use on the rock-
face, since one man could not hope to
hold the other in the event of a slip,
Mallory always believed in roping-up for
its “psychological value.” In support of
that theory an ice-axe which has come
to be known as “Mallory’s axe,” though
it might just as well have been Irvine’s,
was found in 1933 on the north face—
“the slabs on which it lay tilted at an
angle of 35 to 40 degrees, and friction
alone held it there.” If one man had
slipped, says Murray, the other, needing
both hands for the rope, would have
placed the axe where it was found ; “had
it been dropped it would have continued
down to the Rongbuk glacier.”
For eight years after Mallory’s death
the Dalai Lama refused to allow any
more expeditions to Everest. Then, per-
mission having been renewed, the fourth
British expedition, under Hugh Rutt-
ledge, set out in 1933. Harris and Wager
found Mallory’s axe and turned back on
sliding snow at 28,100 ft. The party’s
second team made another attempt, and
after his companion, Shipton, had turned
back a little earlier, Smythe wfent on
alone to the same treacherous buttress
that had defeated Harris, and likewise
turned back. On his solitary return to
Camp VI he had, like Shackleton in the
Antarctic, the impression that some in-
visible, friendly companion was travelling
with him ; and
A more peculiar episode occurred at
1.30 p.m. when he was just 200 feet above
Camp VI. He glanced towards the north-
east shoulder and saw two dark objects
like kite balloons hovering in the sky. They
slowly pulsated. One had squat, immature
wings, and the other a beak like the spout
of a tea-kettle. The in-and-out pulsation
was very marked and slower than Smythe’s
own heartbeat. He. did not krfbw what to
think. Finally he was convinced that here
was no optical illusion. He tested himself
by looking away and back again, by iden-
tifying and naming peaks, glaciers and
valleys before taking another look; but
always when he looked they were there,
pulsing as if moved by some uncanny life-
force. As he started towards the tent they
became covered by drifting mist and never
reappeared.
In 1934 the eccentric Maurice Wilson,
a mystic who dreamed of regenerating
the world, attempted to climb the moun-
tain, attended only by Sherpa porters.
They deserted him in despair at his folly,
and he camped alone, high up, making
repeated attempts to climb the north col,
until he died in his tent, leaving his body
and his diary to be found by the recon-
naissance expedition of 1935.
This expedition, whose energetic
members (including L. V. Bryant, of
New Zealand) climbed 26 peaks of
the Himalayas ■ in two months, was
followed by the expedition of 1936,
which (in a body) got caught in
an avalanche which fortunately
stopped of its own accord before anyone
was killed. Deep snow on the north
ridge and an early arrival of the monsoon
held them back from the summit; and
on their return to the habitations of men
they presented the Dalai Lama with a
small, empty rum-cask supplied by the
Royal Navy, which, filled with written
prayers, is now a prayer-wheel in daily
use at the Lama’s monastery.
The next (1938) expedition, intending
to climb in the lull before the monsoon,
was beaten back by snowstorms and soft,
dangerous snow on the rock-faces when
the lull failed to eventuate. Then came
the gap of World War II; then, with
Tibet closed to the European and the
Nepali Durbar allowing an approach
from the west, came the eighth British
expedition—the one which pioneered the
south-col route and which had Murray
and Edmund Hillary among its members.
Murray’s snapshot of Hillary has already
been quoted; later, in the Swiss expedi-
tion over the same territory in 1952, he
comes to Tensing Bhutia, Hillary’s com-
panion in the final conquest. A “pre-
war Tiger” who had been four times on
Everest from the north, Tensing was with
the Swiss mountaineer Lambert on a
climb of which Murray writes, “No
more heroic effort has ever been made to
reach the summit of Everest.” They
climbed to 28,215 ft, “probably higher
than any man had reached before;” and
were beaten by deteriorating weather and
a failure of their oxygen apparatus—
when they returned to their Camp VI
Tensing fell into a coma “and had
(Red Page continued on page 35)


Senior Store
I
weekly news of activities, values and advantages from Anthony Horderns’
i L U..l..L.liiLLmi-faLLLIi
SvftF S v
v * pt r
\AO. »
k
rfl^
■»
iw&
W::LJ
■X*-.
-:>.■■■■ '■■-
K o (\
.•; ..■:<-..,;
T I
ll'Z
tn
&
SB
Hi
....... -.
w
K%5
m
liilili
.fip :: v;;M
mu
-..V
VTTT
s
* i 1
m
v,
1 -n
M
LL
v ,.%x
‘*•■■;.
Will make to any size and colour
Outdoor Venetians
for your sun porch or verandah
Outside Venetians need no introduction to the Australian public; they are the ideal blind for open
\ : , ;; ; -- : , jr : - : s "' \ r/r;" ■; '■
verandahs or sun porches; they keep out the cold wind in winter and the hot sun in summer.
Our Venetian “Nursery” is one of the most specialised blind factories in Australia. That s
where some of the best Venetians are coming from, and they’re all good solid craftsmanship,
too. Only genuine selected Redwood is used in the laths, and we will tailor them to any size
and any colour, including pastel shades. You gel quality, you get near-perfection in our blinds.
spi
is
m
Holland Hlinds . We make these ever-
popular blinds to any size in best quality
genuine Scotch Holland. They are obtainable
in a wide variety of colours, including beige,
brown, jade green, sand, slate grey, and cream.
Write for pamphlets showing how to measure
for all types of blinds.
Special! Floch Filled
Cushions
Here is value that can’t be beaten!
Flock filled cushions with printed
floral covers, 18in. x 18in. Only 6/'
6'-
m
Household and
Electrical Repairs
That iron of yours is playing up a
bit, or that jug, or any other elec'
trical or household appliance? Well,
you can have them repaired quickly
and cheaply by experts in our new,
improved repair dept., ground floor.
■'
1
66 Forget-me-not ”
another string to
T.O.P.S how
If you’re like a friend of ours,
never can remember birthdays,
anniversaries, and other important
dates in time, “ForgeMne'not” is
your godsend. Just ring M 2401,
ask for T.0.P.5., let us know what
particular event or date you have to
remember, we’ll register it carefully,
remind you of it this year, next
year, ad infinitum. Then you can
throw away all those odd pieces of
string, those furrowed brows. We’ll
remember for you!
Old Venetians
IHade Lihe New
If any of your Venetian blinds
are in disrepair or out of order,
we’ll prime them up to look like
new. Experts in our own special
Venetian blind factory will
sand them, paint them, record
them, and dose them with
several other elixirs. Wooden
Venetians, 3/9 per sq. ft. Mini'
mum for repairs, 12 sq. ft.
’Phone M 2401 for more details
or write Box 2712, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
e
<•!
VENETIAN BLIND DEPARTMENT, THIRD FLOOR. TELEPHONE: M 2401. MAIL ORDERS; BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Australian and Other Food
Something to Bite On
By GAVIN CASEY
WHETHER or not overseas travel
broadens the mind is doubtful.
It certainly does, however,
broaden one’s appreciation of
other people’s tucker, and leave one with
salivary glands that are stimulated by
mere memories of dishes that are rather
hard to find back home.
And it must also, of course, make
anyone aware of the superiority of some
of the food of his native land which he
had previously taken as a matter of
course.
When I headed happily homeward a
few years ago 1 wanted prawns in large
quantities, because in the United States,
where I had spent most of my time, the
“shrimp” seems either to taste of iodine
or to have no flavor at all, and in either
case must be dipped in hot sauce to
make him palatable. I wanted the
Dongarra crays, of Western Australia,
because the American lobster, although
a noble creature, is quite different. My
system needed a gross or so of Sydney
oysters, those of New York being, as
Thackeray once described them, very
large and shapely, not very palatable,
and so prone to kick on the way down
that disposing of one was rather like
“swallowing a live baby.”
On humbler gastronomical levels, I
felt that some sausages and sausage-rolls
would do me good, as would Cornish-
pasties, simple meatpies, and the various
other pastry-and-meat combinations.
This was because in Uncle Sam’s
country the sausage has degenerated
horribly during years of competition
with the frankfurter, and the pies have
long been beaten off the market by the
hamburger, an animal of equally doubt-
ful content and, to my palate, flavor.
In due course I satisfied my desires,
with all the anticipated pleasure as far
as the seafoods were concerned, but with
grief and alarm when I discovered what
some villain had done to Australian pies
and sausages in my absence. I was
pleased to be able to order steak-and-
eggs again without having the waiter
recoil in horror at the very mention of
such a combination, but not so happy
to discover that nowadays somebody is
making a fortune supplying all the
restaurants with budgerigars’ eggs, and
that the modern idea of a steak seems
to be a small slice of beef rather thinner
than the breakfast bacon.
All in all, I enjoyed my home-country
eating, as I still do, but it gradually
dawned on me, leaving a ghastly hollow
feeling, that I was never likely to have
clam chowder again (either the Man-
hattan type, made with clams and
tomatoes, or the Boston variety, clams,
milk and potatoes) unless I evaded dollar
restrictions somehow and imported them
in cans, in which they are not so good.
Neither am I likely to face another plate
of Cherrystone clams raw on the shell,
daintily small but full of flavor and re-
quiring a little more mastication than the
oyster.
And there are times when few things
would make me happier than a serve of
soft-shelled crabs —fascinating little
monsters caught during an interesting
change of life 5 ' when they have shed an
old shell and the new one is merely
gelatine. The crabs are served fried in
breadcrumbs on toast, to be devoured
intact —shells, claws, eyeballs, teeth and
all —and as long as one does not attempt
to outstare the crab they are delicious.
On the whole, I was not fascinated
by American food, probably because I
had lived on Australian kai-kai for too
many years before I went there. I had
a Scottish mother who before the days
of vitamins managed to get plenty of
them into what she called, simply, “good,
wholesome meals,” and it was many
years after her death before I even dis-
covered what I had been missing by not
tasting oysters—and started trying to
make up for lost time. By the time I
left Australia I had discovered the
virtues of Chinese and Italian meals, and
that was about all, except that the abo.
delicacy known as a bardee in the West
and a witchety-grub in the eastern States
is very tasty if cooked in a pat of butter
on hot tin. This, I fancy, had made me
ready to experiment, without much de-
creasing an established addiction to solid
meat, roasted or grilled.
Anyway, I tried anything anybody
offered to me, and though most of it
even I could recognise as good food,
some didn’t seem worth the trouble or
the price. Frog-legs, for instance, are
something I can reasonably enjoy, but
they merely taste like a sort of rich-
man’s chicken to me, and I can live quite
happily without them.
As for snails, they are all right, but
if I have to go to that amount of trouble
to dig fragments of flesh out of a shell,
I prefer it to be crabmeat.
I enjoyed, too, the fine American
Virginia sugar-cured ham, but I like our
own York-style, salt-cured better.
Apart from the absence of eggs on
top, the only criticism I can offer of
American steaks is that each one is big
enough for three men my size, but the
American tradition of lavish hospitality
seems to dictate offering everybody more
than they could eat with the help of all
their relations. The beef, the poultry and
the pork are excellent also; the chicken,
in particular, being a delicacy not remote
from the egg by the great period of time
that elapses before an Australian ever
seems to behead a hen. But the famous
Yank know-how just doesn’t exist where
lamb is concerned.
After I had eaten a lot of alleged lamb
chops big enough to have come off well-
developed camels, visiting farmer Don
Shand, of New South Wales, eventually
cleared up the mystery, it being pointed
out to me that, whereas we consider
35-401 b. the ideal weight for a dressed
lamb, the Americans set the standard at
about 751 b.
In the matter of the public taste for
calves’ liver, and the entire absence from
the market of “lamb’s fry,” I cross-
questioned an American on how they
had managed to breed sheep without this
vital organ. He laughed loudly, and said,
“They all have livers, of course, but
they all get chopped up and made into
goose-liver for the delicatessens.”
With a good deal of respect for
American food and ways of cooking it,
and a few cherished new tastes like the
soft-shelled crabs of beloved memory, I
went to England for a few months before
taking ship for Sydney, and did a little
wandering on the Continent. In Britain
food was scarce, of course, and what
they did with the little they had was
appalling. There seemed to me no doubt
that the restless British spirit that built
up the Empire had its origin in hot and
angry English stomachs, yearning for far
places with palm-trees, where the coco-
nuts could be eaten without cooking. It
was gratifying to learn that Australians
were not, after all, the world’s worst
and least imaginative cooks.
In the poorer parts of London they
were obviously breeding a race which
would defy the world out of sheer gastric
irritation, on a diet of potatoes, fish-
and-chips, jellied eels and strong tea.
There was also an abomination called a
veal-and-bacon pie, served widely in pubs
and consisting largely of what was
apparently raw lard, which would put
anybody in a fighting mood.
In classier localities there were excep-
tions to the general rule, but the com-
monest menu seemed to consist of mud
soup, scorched flesh and lumpy potatoes.
The Murphies were so unvaryingly lumpy
that I am sure most English hotel and
hash-house kitchens have a lump-making
machine through which the spuds are run
if anybody happens to make the mistake
of mashing them too efficiently.
One of the things in England that
prevented me, in my meat-hunger, from
starting to bite pieces out of passing
pedestrians was Simpson’s of the Strand,
a famous men’s restaurant which, lacking
beef and mutton, somehow got hold of a
good deal of venison, which some people
don’t like, but I do. Another was a
little Greek’s den off Fleet-street, where
there was always steak. My colleagues
and friends of the time used to do much
worrying, as they ate in this place, about
whether the meat could possibly be any-
other than horseflesh. I just used plenty
of Worcester sauce, and ate.
All in all, we still seem to be eating
pretty well in Australia, and the New
Australians and other influences are
making us a bit more adventurous about
it, too. The main thing wrong with the
food is its price, of course, but, as my
own mother used to demonstrate years
ago, a skilled hand can do remarkable
things with the cheaper but still “whole-
some” and nourishing cuts of meat and
so forth.
The only time I really wonder here is
when I see the working-youngsters of the
city buying their lunches. We used to
save on lunch-money when I was a lad,
and eat some pretty awful rubbish, too.
But our sandwiches had solid meat in
them, and plenty of it, not the canned
beans, spaghetti and so forth that make
the cheaper fillings nowadays. No-
body ever went into the fish-shop for a
bag of chips alone because he couldn’t
afford the fish, as many do these times.
The stuff we are letting the kids eat
just doesn’t seem the sort of fare on
which to build a Third A.1.F., if on©
ever has to be built.
So You Want to Train a Pup!
EVER since some anonymous
epigrammatist made the
startling discovery that you
can’t teach an old dog new
tricks though presumably an
elderly dog can still be taught old
tricks—it has become the fashion to
star! training and teaching pups
while they are still in the kinder-
garten class.
Some people express surprise that
even an eight-weeks-old pup will
philosophically accept this human
tutoring. Yet what, after all, is
there to wonder at? The pup is well
aware that he can humor his master,
for can he not, as soon as he reaches
the stage where the prefix “old” is
applied to him, promptly forget all
tricks and training, knowing full
well that his supposed inability then
to absorb tuition will render him
immune from all further study?
So you begin the tutorial stuff
just after he has been weaned.
The first thing to inculcate in him
is the clean habit, so the first night
you get him (you do this just before
you retire for the night) you pluck
him from his warm bunk in the
laundry (the laundry because it has
a concrete floor) and push him out
the back-door so he can roam around
the lawn for a while.
His yelpings to get back in out
of the cold and his blank refusal to
budge more than an inch from the
back-door call for strong measures,
so you open the door to transport
him up the yard. Seeing the opening
door, he darts in under your feet,
you tread on him and his agonised
squealings so wring your heart you
pick him up and carry him indoors,
and in the resultant reconciliation
and his slobbering forgiveness for
your clumsiness his nocturnal duty
is forgotten.
Next morning the laundry floor
looks as if a regatta could be started
on it, so that night you take him
personally up the lawn. He appears
to be making a prolonged and
leisurely inventory of every blade of
grass while you are doing a perish.
After some time you think every-
thing should be all right and you
order him inside, but by then he has
become gay and lively and darts here
and there out of your clutching
reach. Finally you corner him and
cart him indoors, dumping him on
the kitchen-floor while you rearrange
his bed. This takes you about a
quarter of a minute, but by the time
you get back there is a puddle on
the kitchen-floor and the pup’s miss-
ing. Immediately you make for the
lounge-room. He’ll be there, joy-
ously chewing the flex of the
standard-lamp, and you swoop and
save him from electrocution.
So you go and get the mop. The
sight of this moving backwards and
forwards is something no self-
respecting pup could allow to go
unchallenged, so he fastens on to it.
You smack him, but what’s the
use? He’ll probably think it’s for
keeping you out of bed, or for growl-
ing at you, or for getting under
your feet. He’d never associate the
punishment with either the mop or
the puddle. That problem will just
resolve itself by effluxion of time.
The question of his nourishment
will demand even tighter discipline.
Milk being essential for its bone-
forming calcium content, you place
a dish of it down and order the pup
to drink it. He walks through it
and starts on your shoelace. You
park him in front of the milk again.
He takes one; sniff and disdainfully
moves off. So you get him and
immerse his nozzle into it, the while
he is trying furiously to back away.
But you know he’ll have to lick his
chops, will taste it, like it, and your
trouble will be over.
He does lick his chops, but by the
look he gives you it tastes to him like
worm-syrup. You are now con-
fronted with the immovable-irresist-
ible combination. You or him. So
you skull-drag him back, yelping, to
the milk-dish.
You can prepare for a long
session. Allow seven nozzle-immer-
sions to one lap and eight laps to a
teaspoonful, work it out how long it
will take for a quarter of the dishful
to go. That’s all you’ll get him to
take, forcefully.
After about a week, fed-up, you
say damn him and the milk —he can
keep to the water he obviously pre-
fers. So you fill his milk-dish with
water. He ignores it. Ah! You’ve
got him. Now is the time to whip
in the milk. You do. He still ignores
it. Offer him some tea out of a
saucer. It’s not good for him. He’ll
lash into it.
A young pup needs feeding every
four hours. So you follow instruc-
tions and put down some raw meat,
chopped fine. He will push an ex-
ploratory bugle in among the tasty
morsels, then back away full of sus-
picious sniffs. Sternly you order him
to eat, but he flatly refuses. Ob-
viously the milk-dish technique is no
good applied to meat, and forcibly
to thrust it into his gob would invite
reprisals from needle-sharp teeth.
So you buck the instruction-book
and cook it. Waste of time and gas.
One sniff and he’s off. Next thing
you’ll see him in a garden-bed bliss-
fully chewing junks of earth.
This rings a bell. It’s some vital
mineral that his system is lacking.
You put bone-flour and other vita-
min-charged stuff on the meat. He
still prefers good old common earth.
But offer him a noisome, ancient
bone and observe the pup’s beatific
expression as he lovingly runs his
slavering tongue over it.
You might as well eat his meat
yourself, »
BO.
Next Week
The Sword of Laughter
by Olaf Ruben
A party of officials on a mission
up-river into the uncontrolled territory
of New Guinea where the natives
are still wild and unpredictable; a
dangerous moment when it looked as
though all was lost, and its sudden
conversion into good humor; —a story
that is first-rate and first-hand.
What Now, Watanabe San?
by Stephen Kelen
The typical Japanese, before and
during the Occupation; and now that
the Occupation is over and the lasting
quality of “de-mokrasie” doubtful,
how will he pan-out? Kelen writes
from personal experience and a close
study of the subject in Japan.


The Bulletin
‘ Wednesday, July 1, 1953
Vol 74—No, 3829
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE ATOM AND AUSTRALIA
The announcement that the “largest atom-bomb ever”
is likely to be exploded in Australia, and new British
atomic weapons tested somewhere in the Woomera-
range region, is momentous news for Australia,
In wars up to the present Australia has been “on
the outer.” Germany in World War I scarcely con-
sidered it at all except as the provider of a sizeable
expeditionary force. It was well outside invasion-
range, though it was taken for granted that if Berlin
won it would ultimately fall like a ripe plum. In
World War II it was even of less importance to the
decisive European campaigns, and was —a rather sad
fact —the only Dominion not represented at all in the
1943-44 landings in Europe. And Japan’s strategic view
was that, should the German-Japanese allies win, the
Commonwealth would be Tokyo’s for the asking. t
With atomic warfare, however, there is a change.
From being the remotest continental objective
in a world-war it has achieved a first-priority
position. It cannot be neglected from the start by any
nation which contemplates world conquest. It can be
taken for granted that the ultimate fate of the world
may be decided by atom war now that problems of
fission in missiles of projectile size have been over-
come.
And Australia has suddenly emerged as a possible
decisive factor. One of the first things which any
world-war enemy would seek to do would be to
capture or to neutralise its vital supplies of nuclear-
fission materials and its experimental bases, at which,
undoubtedly, during the progress of any world con-
flict,’ the lessons learned would be applied to the
improvement of atomic weapons, also to atomic pro-
pulsion of land and sea transport.
' This loads on to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment (and the free world) a responsibility for the
defence of Australia never carried before, and
problems which 10 years ago would have been thought,
had they been propounded, as the imaginings of a new
Jules Verne. The change has come about through
several causes, but mainly through progress in atomic
missiles and rocket-propulsion and radio-control of
distant objects. Nobody knows quite clearly as yet
what the range of guided missiles may be, but already
in an experimental sense the day has come when we
can consider the landing of rocket projectiles (of a
type much improved and larger than those which
wrought such devastating effects on London buildings
and morale towards the end of last war) in Brisbane,
Sydney or Melbourne from Timor or New Guinea or
New Zealand ; in Woomera from the East Indies —this
with sufficient accuracy to control the area of damage.
Our position as a whole certainly involves a new
urgency in the provision of air defence not only from
bases within Australia but from those round the fringe
of islands which guard our eastern and northern coast.
It lends a new importance to Singapore and Borneo,
to Ceylon and to the maintenance of British govern-
ment in East Africa and S. Africa, which, before a new
war is over, will be as a matter of course within the
ambit of heavy bombers bent on attacking our coast.
It calls for a new type of Navy and for a much
larger one than at present, designed to detect and deal
with the bigger types of submarine as well as surface
approach. And it calls, also, for some provision at
once of a scheme for civilian defence which ought
already to be well under way, and for a reorganisation
of the Army to meet the new conditions.
There are signs that the defence authorities are
not blind to necessities. But a Government without
the drive of public opinion behind it, especially if it is
hampered by continual snarling against defence
expenditure, is at a great disadvantage. A
lot of politicians on the Liberal side are
frightened to face defence as it should be faced because
of its likely effect on the selfish women’s vote. And
“Labor” mostly thinks of defence only as a political
w eapon. A campaign is needed to bring home the
stark facts to the electors and to warn them of the
new dangers while impressing them with the new hopes
—the second string in security so to speak—which have
been born in the discovery in this continent of nuclear
resources which in time may bp as important as, and
perhaps take the place of, wool as the main source of
our wealth.
With uranium supplies assured both Common-
wealth and States should be straining every muscle to
take full advantage of our new resources and to turn
THE "LABOR" GAME .
Australia into an atomically-minded land. The
immigration of the great- cosmic-ray group of
researchers, who have left the well-endowed schools
and experimental physics laboratories of Europe and
America for the economical shades of Sydney Uni-
versity, shows what pure scientists of the first order
think of Australian nuclear-physics opportunities. The
Commonwealth and South Australian Governments
have taken steps to develop uranium deposits and to
discover new ones which speak for themselves. But
the business community is scarcely awake yet to the
changing perspective of the country, and to handling
problems of settlement and population which a few
years ago looked permanently insoluble.
Compared with the responses of the business-
people of Chicago, which supports by subscription a
quarter-million-pound-a-year institute of nuclear-
physics research, the reaction of the N. S. Wales
community to the appeal by Sydney University for
£25,000 a year to promote research by the newly-
arrived group from overseas has been very poor. And
other States have scarcely begun to think about doing
their share and equipping their universities with brains
and instruments.
The whole thing is a fit subject for discussion by a
Premiers’ conference. The defence issue has been
brought right home to us. Issues of peaceful progress
through atomic development are no less vital. The
implications of developments both for war and peace
affect every person in the Commonwealth and his or
her future.
The Row in the Hostels
Before anybody sheds tears over the plight of British
migrant families who have been evicted from Com-
monwealth hostels, three things must be considered.
The evictees have been put out for refusing to pay for
their keep; they have brought it on themselves ; and
they have allowed themselves to become stooges for
Communist propaganda.
This country treats migrants pretty well. So it
should, if it comes to that, since we need them badly
enough and have spared no effort in persuading them
to come here. It was, perhaps, to be expected that a
proportion of them would be malcontents and
whingers, and doubtless Australia is lucky that the
proportion is very low. All the same, due largely to
the notice given them in the daily Press, that propor-
tion has acquired an exaggerated idea of their own
importance, created trouble, and caused an unjust
antipathy towards migrants as a whole.
British people accepted by the Commonwealth as
migrants pay only £lO sterling a head in ship-fares (£5
for children 14 to 19), get free board at reception-
centres until transported free to a hostel dose to their
employment. They’re not asked to pay anything for
their keep until actually earning money, and the hostel
accommodation is theirs until they can find a house
for themselves. At the hostels, which are run by Com-
monwealth Hostels, Ltd., migrants get full board and
lodging for £2 9s. a week each.
Reports of dissatisfaction in the hostels, protest-
meetings, boycotts and so forth began appearing some
time ago. There were minor disturbances. With a
remarkable similarity to the “rolling strikes” of
Communist-led unions, these upsets broke out in dif-
ferent places in different States. No sooner was one
outburst settled than another boiled up somewhere
else. Main feature of them all was refusal by migrants
to pay the hostel charges.
To investigate the alleged complaints Federal
Immigration Minister Holt set-up a committee com-
prised of G. W. Brown, of the Immigration Advisory
Council (chairman); R. R. Broadby, of the A.CT.U.;
Mrs. F. G. Kumm, Y.W.C.A.; and J. C. Neagle,
R.S.L. A summary of the complaints:
Tariff too dear. British have to mix with non-
British in hostels. No rebates for absences from
hostels of less than a week. No deduction for missed
meals. Can’t cook their own food. Hostels over-
staffed. Some hostels not as good as others. Migrants
misled in Britain as to conditions m Australia, hood
in hostels unpalatable and monotonous (some didn t
want meat, many preferred chips, some wanted boiled
instead of fried eggs, some didn’t like custard poured
on sweets). Hostel-managers are Army types incapable
of looking after families.
Most of it was trivial. None of it warranted
refusal to pay hostel charges. Only the notice given
it by the daily Press forced it up to Ministerial levels.
One bad result was the appearance of fantastic reports
in British newspapers.
The other week trouble appeared in hostels
around Sydney, Adelaide and Melbourne having had
their turn. Migrants refused to pay their board. They
were warned. Those who ignored the warning were
put out.
Once again the pattern was familiar. There were
street parades and threats of violence at Wollon-
gong in Sydney men downed tools and “streamed
from work “by car, truck, taxi and motor-cycle to
“protect the rights” of the defaulters. There were
“clashes” with police and the elements of an ugly
situation.
One of the newest Federal 1 Labor members, Mr*
Whitlam, rushed to the scene. With others he put his
name to telegrams to Canberra, and, being a legal
light made learned statements about the law. At his
elbow was H. Boreham, “Federal president British
Migrants’ Welfare Association.” Then Mr. Whitlam,
apparently not liking what he was getting into, suddenly
fell silent.
Communists, the inquiring committee found,
“were a guiding force in recent unhappy incidents.
The “Communist Review” last November spoke of
drawing migrants into “the struggle against the Menzies
Government and the Australian bourgeoisie” and the
need to “base the [Communist] party firmly inside
the hostels.”
It will have to “base” it outside. Unimpressed
by newspaper reports and Communist-inspired threats
alike, the hostels management continued to put the
defaulters out. In this it was fortified by the Minister s
statement that “If in future any resident failed, without
acceptable reason, to pay the full official tariff and
abide by the hostel rules, the Government would insist
that he could not remain at the hostel,” by the fact
that all State Prices Commissioners except Queensland
allow the • management to fix the tariff, and the
Queensland one has approved a tariff which is the same
as is charged in other States, and by the fact that
charges and rules are subject to Federal Government
approval.
As for the demand to be allowed to cook their
own meals, the management couldn’t allow it if it
wished, because fire-prevention and health laws pro-
hibit it. To alter the hostels to eliminate these risks
would cost at least £400,000, and would result in what
nobody wants —semi-permanent and sub-standard
housing settlements.
When these “troubles” began the migrants in
hostels totalled about 10,000. Those making the fuss
total fewer than 400. That, along with the fact that
migrants are finding their own homes and leaving the
hostels at the rate of about 800 a month —a rate which
will result in hardly any being left in 12 months and
measured against the tariff of under 50s. a week per
person, should put the whole business in its right per-
spective. Australia has enough native-born whingers
without importing more.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Korean Complications
Whatever may be the full story of the
escape of prisoners from Korean camps
with the aid of Dr. Syngman Rhee’s
Government, the situation in that country
now provides a horrible mess of alterna-
tives.
To begin with, the Rhee Government
is an Administration which the United
Nations have kept firmly in the saddle,
recognised as the de facto Government
of Korea with the right to speak for
Koreans. And now that it has spoken
for Koreans in a manner awkward for
everybody in U.N.0., any attempt to dis-
pose of it and replace it with leaders
more amenable to U.N.O. policy would
probably end either in chaos or fierce
resistance.
Dr, Rhee repeated during the week
that he would withdraw his forces from
Allied command if the present armistice
was signed. And his forces are not
negligible. They number round about
500,000 men, whom the Americans have
trained and armed, against the 300,000
which comprise the remainder of the
U.N.O. forces. This would lay open
most of the Allied line and present a
vast temptation to the Communists, one
which, being what they are, they would
scarcely be likely to resist.
The trend of their thought and inten-
tion is shown by the series of questions
propounded by their spokesman at Pan-
munjon:
Is the United Nations command able
to control the S. Korean Government and
Army? If not, does an armistice include
Dr. Syngman Rhee? If he is not included,
what assurance is there for the imple-
mentation of an armistice agreement om
the part of S. Korea? If it is included,
then your U.N.O. side must be respon-
sible for recovering at once all prisoners
supposedly freed, but who are being kept
for conscription into the S. Korean Army.
On the news that the S. Koreans in-
tended to enlist liberated prisoners to
form a fighting division and that
prisoners continue to escape, the Peking
official Government journal has declared
savagely that the escapes were arranged
“with the full connivance of the Ameri-
cans,” averring that the liberations prove
U.N.O. to be “afraid to hand over the
prisoners to a neutral commission.”
The announcement that Mr. Robert-
son, President Eisenhower’s emissary,
had nearly completed a security pact
with S. Korea produced from Peking
a statement that “the pact would
merely be a time-bomb” which Dr.-
Rhee would use to wreck the political
conference which is to follow the sign-
ing of the armistice and pave the way
to “launch another war as he did three
years ago.”
Chinese military attacks are being con-
centrated on South Korean sectors, and
there is little doubt about what South
Korea’s fate would be if the Allies should
be forced to withdraw by reason of the
relationship with the Rhee Government
being untenable.
Such a withdrawal, leaving the country
to its fate, would have devastating re-
actions in Asia, where it would fling
India, Burma and other States into the
arms of the Left, and shake the faith of
Japan in the defensive ability of the
West. The situation is almost impossible,
more especially since South Korean public
opinion is hysterically behind the
Syngman Rhee Government.
What Compulsion?
For a statement which, on surface indi-
cations, might have been expected to
gladden the hearts of all “Labor” men,
Heffron’s promise of compulsory union-
ism seems to have thrown the A.L.P,
into a strange confusion. Feeling in The
Movement obviously covers a wide range
between those who think compulsion
would end all “Labor’s” financial
troubles and those who don’t want a bar
of it, fearing it would lead to too much
Government interference in union
affairs, the growth of “tame-cat” unions
and the swamping of some existing
unions by new members antagonistic to
present policy. Taking it all round, it
seems that some of the hats that were
thrown into the air at the first announce-
ment were really meant to be thrown
into the ring.
These divided interests were pulling in
opposite directions when Cabinet dis-
cussed the question last week, and the
opponents of the move were strengthened
by two things—firstly the hearty opposi-
tion of almost the entire Press and of a
wide range of employer organisations;
and, secondly, the greatly reduced
“Labor” vote in the Dulwich Hill by-
election. According to reports of the
Cabinet-meeting, Ministers seemed to
have skated carefully round the fringes of
the subject without committing them-
selves. The outcome was a request to
Mr. Landa, Minister for Labor and
Industry, to report on how compulsory
unionism acted in New Zealand and
Queensland and on how preference
clauses operated in N. S. Wales awards.
As Mr. Heffron had been quite definite
in his statement to the A.L.P. conference
on June 13, this decision seems a little
belated. At that time he gave the im-
pression that legislation was almost
ready. He said that “Cabinet had been
working on amendments to the Industrial
Arbitration Act as late as last week, and
hoped to complete the job next Tuesday.”
“Next Tuesday” came and went, and on
the following Tuesday the most Cabinet
could do was call for a report.
If Heffron was stating fact on June 13,
then the latest decision is either an
admission that his Cabinet had been pre-
pared to rush bull-headed into compul-
sory unionism without troubling to
examine matters it now deems important,
or else it is merely a subterfuge to post-
pone the whole matter while it thinks
things over and gets its instructions.
Another alternative is that Heffron was
merely flying a kite in Cahill’s absence
to get a line on faction strengths within
the movement.
Another "Bank Grab"?
Announcement by the Cain Govern-
ment that it intends to “bring the State
Savings ißank under direct Ministerial
control” ought to make Victorians
mighty curious. Along with the bank
Vic. “Labor” proposes the same fate for
“all statutory commissions, boards and
authorities,” notably the railways, grain
elevators, Electricity Commission,
Country Roads Board and Tramways
Board.
Justifying the intention, Acting-Premier
Galvin said he had “always contended
that these statutory authorities should be
subservient to control by Parliament,”
which is a specious way of putting it,
since it means nothing less than control
by the party in power; in this case the
“Labor” party, which is committed to
socialisation, whether by straightforward
means or backdoor methods. N. S.
Wales has found to its cost what it means
to have Ministers overruling the man-
agement of public services, be they banks
or brickworks.
Victoria’s State Savings Bank, founded
in 1841, is one of the State’s most solid
institutions. It has weathered the stresses
of more than a century without “direct
Ministerial control.” Today it holds
deposits, mostly the money of wage-
earners, of just on £3OO million, by far
the greatest amount in any State savings
bank, and more than a third of the total
deposits in all Commonwealth and State
savings banks.
Whatever the true reason behind this
sudden decision —it was not mentioned
in Premier Cain’s policy-speech—Vic-
torians aren’t likely to accept it without
question. And a very good question
would be: What has the bank done (or
refused to do) which makes the “Labor”
party hunger to take control of it?
Unstable France
It is fashionable among theorists to abuse
the party system of government as prac-
tised in the British Commonwealth, the
United States and Scandinavian king-
doms, but the examples of other systems
in other lands advertise its superiority.
In countries behind the Iron Curtain
the operation of the one-party system
which Mr. Calwell and his disciples favor
speaks for itself, and the multi-party
systems of the Latin “democratic” coun-
tries seem to achieve Tittle better results.
The outcome of the Italian elections
promises something like chaos, and at
best instability. France has reached the
point at which it has more parties than
the rest of Europe put together, and can
scarcely maintain a government at all.
The spectacle of that nation, so rich in
resources, so high in intellect as a whole,
during the past few weeks has been
tragic. It has 11 parties or groups making
up a Chamber of 627 deputies. The
largest is Socialist (with 105), and the
next-largest the Communists and their
close allies (100). It needs 314 votes to
elect a government. Therefore, one or
both of these groups together usually pro-
vide sufficient strength to make an election
impossible.
By vote or by abstention, the Leftist
blocs, and sometimes other groups,
have prevented France from having a
government since the middle of May,
when M, Mayer (May 21-22) was de-
feated in thfe Chamber, polling only 244
votes, with 48 abstentions, the Com-
munists and Socialists helping to make
i p a vote of 328 against him.
M. Reynaud (May 27-28) then had a
try. He polled 276 votes, 109 voters
abstained, and 235 voted against him.
Then M. Mendes-France (June 3-5)
was called on to see what the Left might
do. The Socialists voted for him —he
was the only one they so far have sup-
ported. He polled 301 votes, with 191
abstentions and 119 against—-100 of the
last Communist.
M. BMault came on the scene (June 10-
11) and polled 313 —one less than he
needed. Socialists and Communists
polled 205 oi the 228 votes against him.
There was a pause for a few days, and
the President called on M. Marie (June
18-19). With 272 votes, 138 abstentions
and 209 against him his attempt was a
failure.
M. Pinay was now asked. He hur-
riedly announced that he was not a
starter —he is a Conservative, and
already had held office.
Lastly M. Laniel was called in—an old
“resistance” hand, in his sixties, with 20
years’ Parliamentary experience behind
him but no international prestige of the
kind that counts, a last attempt at com-
promise. He was able to {attract the
whole of the despairing parties except
the Communists and Socialists and one
or two isolated independents. His Ministry
is one of all the talents, even the usually
aloof “Right De Gaullists” standing in
with him, and includes several ex-
Premiers, including three of those who
failed to form Ministries —Reynaud,
Bidault and Marie. He is safe only as
long as he maintains the neutral ground
of an all-party programme discussed
under the President’s aegis last week ; but
so soon as party issues arise he will be
in danger.
The position is serious both as regards
France and Italy in view of the increasing
growth of East European resistance to
Communism, the magnitude of which is
advertised by the visit of Kaganovich,
the ruthless organiser of the Ukrainian
massacres, to East Germany, and the
possibility that Moscow might try to
solve its European difficulties, if they get
beyond control, by war. This many a
tyrant has done in the past.
It is more serious still because of the
illness of Mr. Churchill, the owner of
the one firm guiding hand with ex-
perience and a stable Parliament behind
him in Western democratic Europe.
The Hard Road to Socialism
“D.J.K.”: Not content with levying
savage transport taxes and imposing
harsh vehicle-registration fees, the
Queensland “Labor” Government takes
the process of injustice further by having
a road-construction policy which has the
imagination and capacity of a blanc-
mange.- The report of the Commissioner
of Main Roads for the year 1952-53 won’t
appear for some months, and when it
does it is unlikely to recite any spec-
tacular record of achievement.
This table shows the road-construction
carried out by the Queensland Main
Roads Commission during 1951-52;
Type of Work Mileage
Clearing .. .. ~ ~ 334.50
Formation .. .. .. .. 94.43
Gravelling .. ~ .. .. 198.33
Bitumening ~ .. .. .. 54.61
Concreting .. 1.70
Total 673.57
At this rate it will take 283 years
before the mileage of roads already de-
clared as the responsibility of the com-
mission are either bitumened or con-
creted.
One would think “Labor’s” sorry per-
formance on road-construction would
tell against them at elections, but “Labor”
plays up to the big vote in crowded cities.
In 1950 “Labor” announced it would
electrify Brisbane railways at an esti-
mated cost of £l2 million. The fact that
precious little has been done on the pro-
ject doesn’t matter, as “Labor” shields
itself by blaming the Federal Govern-
ment for lack of funds.
The references to transport in various
“Labor” policy-speeches are illuminating.
In 1935: “What more beneficial works
could be undertaken than increased road
facilities?” In 1938: “ The Govern-
ment could not accept the recommenda-
tion of the Transport Commission that
the railways should have exclusive right
to conduct’ motor goods-and-passenger
services on traffic routes.” In 1944:
“ Plans were in hand for the co-
ordination of aerial, rail and road trans-
port.” 1947: “ The Government’s
policy was to be an open-road policy.”
Consistent as ever, “Labor” has carried
out its election promises in rather a
curious way. The road facilities in most
of western Queensland are more or less
those which existed in the days of the
bullock-teams. The vicious Transport
Facilities Act of 1947 has driven a
number of transport agents out of busi-
ness, and the same Act insists that no
road-haulier can undercut railway freight-
charges. A good sample of “Labor”
democracy is found in the provision in
the Act which enables the Transport
Commission to take over any transport
business at any price, without the right
of appeal beyond the Transport Minister.
“Labor’s” disastrous road-construc-
tion policy and its shocking handling of
transport administration retard Queens-
land’s development immeasurably. Does
“Labor” care? Not a bit. Development
to “Labor” is something to be talked
about at elections and ignored in be-
tween.
Newcastle Smokes
“Abdul Assiz”: Coincident (and pos-
sibly merely coincidental) with the advent
of cold weather, the several Ministries'
involved have leapt into action with
reference to the oft-repeated requests to
take heed of the plight of Australia’s
coal-and-steel metropolis.
Minister Renshaw (Public Works), for
example, advised the city’s Chamber of
Commerce on June 12 that he had every
intention of providing the modern dredg-
ing equipment necessary for keeping the
port in reasonably navigable condition
at all times, especially after floods.
There were, under construction at the
State Dockyard or on order from over-
seas, a 500-ton steam tug, the hull of
which was already well under way ; a
drag-suction dredge, similar to the
Richard Vo well; a self-propelled grab-
hopper ; a 16in. diesel-electric cutter-
suction dredge; and a Lobnitz rock-
breaker, the last being practically com-
pleted.
Mr. Renshaw, unhappily, was indefi-
nite as to even the approximate dates on
which these items of equipment would
be placed into commission. The rate,
he said, would depend on the funds made
available from time to time to his depart-
ment. It was, however, not proposed to
limit the dredge-construction programme
to the units named, and it was his inten-
tion that adequate funds would be avail-
able for the purpose.
The Chamber of Corhmerce, which has
received so many unimplemented
promises, was not unduly impressed, but
its president pointed out that, at worst,
the Minister’s statement showed an en-
couraging change of attitude. The satis-
faction of that body was augmented by
a letter from the traffic-manager of the
N.S.W. railways, who gave an assurance
that the Sunday Newcastle-Sydney ex-
press service would be restored when the
warm weather returned ; but it still is
felt that a lot of leeway has to be made
up.
Newcastle City Council has issued a
guide on how to fire furnaces with a
minimum production of smoke. The
pamphlet includes uncomplimentary but
scarcely libellous caricatures of the Zara-
street electricity-generating station, the
Pluto dredge, the Stockton ferry, an un-
identifiable seagoing passenger-ship, and
the “Flyer,” all abundantly belching the
black smoke which is—and will be until
preventive measures are taken —a normal
constituent of the city’s atmosphere.
The Doyle Inquiry
Hearing of evidence in the royal com-
mission inquiring into the association
between former N. S. Wales Mines
Minister Arthur and Reginald Aubrey
Doyle will probably be concluded this
week.
Last week Cyril Jack Chesterfield, managing-
director of Constructors (Engineering and
Industrial), Ltd., told the court he had first
met Arthur in 1945. Early in 1947, at the
request of other shareholders of Chesterfield
and Jenkins (Q.) Pty., Ltd., he had invited
Arthur to invest in the company and join
the board of directors, Arthur, who was then
a private member, acquired 345 shares tor
£345, and became a director; he supervised the
activities of the company in N. S. Wales.
A black Buick car was registered in Arthur s
name and made available for his use. When
Arthur became Minister for Tourist Activities
(on September 14, 1949) he tendered his
resignation from the board. Constructois
(Engineering and Industrial), Ltd., was forme
on March 17, 1950, and a new issue of shares
was made on March 2, 1951- The new shares
were issued at par (55.). The market price foi
“rights” reached 3s. 6d. and the original shares
were quoted “between Bs. and 10s. a share.
Chesterfield said he first mentioned to Arthur
that Constructors, Ltd., might enter the
opencut-mining field in June, J 951 ; hf ,
then said that as Minister for Mines he would
have to dispose of his interest in Constructoi s.
He (Chesterfield) had told Arthur he could
not see it that way,” as the contractwas with
the Joint Coal Board, not with the N S.
Wales Government. Asked by Mr. Jelling,
OC whether he was aware at the time thai
Arthur’s holding was 22,000 shares, Chesterhe u
said he knew it was substantial. In Maicii,
1951, Mr. K. L. Harris, his former joint
{Continued on next page)


managing-director in Constructors, had ex-
changed 6000 shares with Arthur for valuable
consideration, which he understood was a one-
third interest in a patented process relating to
building construction. Later Chesterfield named
this concern as Denaro Air Flow Building
Blocks Pty., Ltd., and said the other two-thirds
were held by Mr. Stuckey and D. O. Watkins,
Labor M-P- for Newcastle.
Asked by Mr. Ashburner, Q.C., whether
Arthur had returned to the board of Chester-
field and Jenkins while a Minister, Chesterfield
said he had returned in December, 1950, when
the co. became a holding company. Questioned
about an account he had received through the
Mines Department from a German firm,
Hochtief, which included an amount of £ll7
“expenses in relation to Hon. J. G. Arthur in
Germany,” witness said the account had been
a mistake and had been withdrawn by Hochtief.
Of his car-dealings with R. A. Doyle, Chester-
field said that in 1950, on the way home from
a trotting meeting, he had asked Doyle if he
could get him a new Buick. Doyle had said
“yes,” and had asked for a cheque for £l4OO.
He gave him one, drawn on Construction
Services Pty., Ltd. (another of his companies).
Doyle had returned him a cheque for £l4OO in
December, 1950. Earlier he had asked Arthur
to get Doyle to sell the black Buick and, in
February, 1952, he inquired about this. Arthur
told him Doyle had changed it for a grey
Buick of a later model.
A month later Arthur told him Doyle had
bought the black Buick and had paid £l4OO
into the company’s account. He found this
was not correct. In May, 1952, Doyle gave
him a cheque (undated) for £l4OO and asked
him not to present it until June 30. The cheque
was* dishonored. Arthur was then abroad, but
when he returned and was informed of the
dishonored cheque he rang Doyle, who explained
he was short of money. Later Arthur paid
him (Chesterfield) £7OO which he said Doyle
had given him at Harold Park as part of the
£l4OO. The other £7OO was still owing.
On Thursday J. G. Arthur appeared before
the commission. He said that in October, 1950,
Chesterfield had nominated him for 8000 shares
in Constructors. He had resigned from the
board of Chesterfield and Jenkins in 1949 on
becoming Minister for Tourist Activities, but
had rejoined when the co. ceased to operate in
active business. He had objected to the amal-
gamation of Constructors (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
with another company, and K. L. Harris, one
of the directors, offered him 6000 shares if he
would withdraw his opposition. He withdrew
his opposition and received 6000 shares.
Arthur told the court he had held “certain
patent rights in Denaro Air Flow Building
Blocks,” on which he had lost a considerable
sum of money. When Harris suggested that he
should transfer his interests he agreed, and “on
March 27, 1951, the 6000 shares in Constructors
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., were transferred to me.”
Outlining his associations with Doyle, Arthur
said that he had been very friendly with Doyle,
whom he had taken to be a man of considerable
means. Doyle had had the highest reputation,
and every dealing he had had with him had
been carried but with the strictest honesty.
They had exchanged racing information; Doyle
had always told him when his wife’s horses
“were ready to salute the judges.” When he
told Doyle that he had been nominated for
8000 shares in Constructors. (E. and I.), Ltd.,
and was thinking of borrowing money to finance
the purchase, Doyle said his wife might be
interested. He made an arrangement with
Doyle whereby Mrs. Doyle was to lend him
£2OOO to purchase 8000 shares at par and they
were to halve the profits if they sold the
shares.
He met Mrs. Doyle outside the Rural Banx
on January 9, 1951, when she paid him £2OOO,
which he immediately banked, in June, 1951,
when he became aware that the Coal Board
was negotiating with Constructors on opencut-
mining contracts he had a feeling that as
Minister for Mines he should sell the shares.
He transferred 12,000 shares to his first wife
and two children and sold the remainder. Since
then he had had no beneficial interest in the
company.
Arthur corroborated Chesterfield’s evidence
about the £7OO paid to him by Doyle at Harold
Park, He said he had no direct knowledge of
Doyle’s transaction in American cars. When
the subject was first raised by the Customs he
had questioned Doyle, who denied having used
his room or phone. Doyle assured him he
had legal advice that he had not broken any
laws in getting the cars.
Describing the circumstances of the cashing
by Doyle of a cheque for £l4OO on February
5, 1952, Arthur said that Doyle had beckoned
to him from a small veranda outside his office
at the Mines Department, while he was inter-
viewing some people. He had gone outside,
and Doyle had told him he was going to buy
the Buick. Doyle produced a cheque for £l4OO
and asked him to endorse it. He did so,
telling Doyle to cash it at the Rural Bank
and pay the money into the account of Con-
struction Services Pty., Ltd.
Later Mr. Andrews of the Rural Bank
phoned him about the cheque and he told him
to cash it. He subsequently found out that
Doyle had not banked the money. When he
spoke to Doyle about this Doyle said he had
been having a rough spin, but, “Don’t worry,
old man, 1 will fix it up shortly.” Asked by
Judge Amsberg whether he felt Doyle’s act
was thoroughly dishonest, Arthur said, “I did
feel it was not the right thing.”
His Honor: You thought it was monstrous
and criminal?—*! did not feel it was criminal.
Why not? —I thought that Doyle had taken
a loan of the money temporarily.
His Honor: That is what most criminals
say?—l realise that now.
POLITICAL POINTS
Urgers are still trying to provoke
Treasurer Fadden to spill the tax-reduc-
tion beans, but S’Artie refuses to bite.
The most anyone has got out of him so
far is that both Menzies and he have
already promised “important and valu-
able reductions.” On present indications
it seems that Parliament will reassemble
for the Budget session about the middle
of September. Till then tax-cuts will be
a subject for guesswork.
• •
After 36 days of searching France
has found a Premier—the 19th since the
Liberation. He is M. Laniel, and his
Cabinet includes half a dozen ex-Premiers.
In his policy-speech to the National
Assembly he undertook, as part of a
programme that seemed designed to offer
something for everyone, to tell Britain
and America, at the Bermuda confer-
ence, that France was finding the cost
of the war in Indo-China too heavy to
be borne alone.
9 9
Close on the heels of this announce-
ment came the news that Bermuda would
have to be postponed for at least a
month. Prime Minister Churchill having
been ordered by his doctors to rest for
that period. Well-wishers throughout
the free world will echo President Eisen-
hower’s hope that the old warrior will
then be fit to fulfil the engagement.
With Anthony Eden also on the sick-
list the British Government will be tem-
porarily led by Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer Butler.
9 -9
Things are getting so tough in Tas-
manian “Labor” circles that the boys are
running a Popular Girl competition to
raise funds for the Kawse. They’d better
watch out. There was a somewhat
similar contest in Dr. Evatt’s electorate,
Barton, a couple of years ago and Nancy
Wake almost won,
• *
Final figures in the Dulwich Hill
(N.S.W.) by-election were: Mallam
(Labor), 10,886 ; Ness (Liberal), 9182 ;
Sheean (Communist), 468. The outright
“Labor” majority was 1236. Conceding
“Labor” the Communist vote, the party’s
majority would have been 2172, com-
pared with 5430 only four months ago.
Hardly a famous victory!
9 9
Calwell has once more been asked to
explain himself. He said that since 1939
wages had risen by 175 p.c., while costs
had risen by 543 p.c, W- J. Allison, of
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce,
asked where Calwell got the figures, the
Commonwealth Bank having made the
figures 212 p.c. and 146 p.c. respectively.
Calwell replied that he got his figures
from the Taxpayers’ Association. He
did, too, but the association didn’t say
costs had risen by 543 p.c. It said taxa-
tion had.
9 9
Another Calwell remark was that the
people “must be educated to see the
truths of ‘Labor’s’ policy.” That seems
to be an absolute contradiction of terms.
If people are properly educated they
should be able to recognise the fallacy
of “Labor’s” policy,
9 9
The same people who have been
organising the “protests” from British
migrants in hostels are now busy in the
Wollongong (N.S.W.) district “organis-
ing” British miners who are tenants of
cottages owned by the Department of
the Interior.
9 9
The by-election to fill late Opposition-
leader Oldham’s seat in the Victorian
Assembly will be held on July 11.
Malvern is a blue-ribbon Liberal seat,
and “Labor” is not putting up an official
runner, though G. J. Bradley is standing
as an “Unendorsed Labor” candidate.
There are three varieties of Liberal in
the field —J, S, Bloomfield, nominated by
the official L.C.P.; W. R. Dawnay-
Mould, former member for Dandenong,
who is carrying the Hollway banner;
and Mrs. Mascotte Brown (Unendorsed
Liberal). This is Mrs. Brown’s third
attempt at the seat.
• •
Senator Aylett asked electors to give
him their first preference, after the A.L.P.
executive had placed him No. 4 on the
official ticket. Sufficient electors responded
to give him a seat at the expense of the
man the executive had placed No. 3.
Aylett was summoned to a meeting of
the executive and, “after a discussion,” a
resolution was adopted saying that he had
“shown a lack of co-operation” and that
he therefore “deserved the censure of the
executive.”
The censure recalls the yarn of the
negro who was charged with stealing a
chicken and, through the eloquence of
his counsel, was acquitted. On hearing
the verdict, the darkie said to the judge,
“Does dat mean I kin keep de chicken?”
Senator Aylett is being allowed to keep
the chicken,
• •
Asked to look into a proposal to ex-
tend the railway from Morgan to Bar-
mera, on the Murray, a South Australian
public-works committee condemned it,
but added that there was “even greater
agreement on the need for road-bridges
at Blanchetown and Kingston.” Pro-
GETTING INTO LINE
vided the inevitable Railways Commis-
sioner doesn’t arise to denounce this as
a threat to the railways, the S.A. Murray
might now have a chance of scrapping
its time-wasting punts.
• •
The N.S.W. Government won’t ask
wheatgrowers to vote on the wheat-
stabilisation” scheme produced by the
Australian Agricultural Council. It will
wait until after the A.A.C. meets again
late this month to see if it can produce
something better. It’ll be hard for it to
produce anything worse.
• •
Queenslanders can’t say they weren’t
warned. At the State election a few
months ago the Liberal and Country
parties promised that if they became the
Government they would not sanction
increased Parliamentary salaries without
an inquiry by an independent tribunal.
Further, they warned that if “Labor”
won the election it would quickly move
for a salary grab. It did and it is.
• •
Sydney was staggered on Friday to see
one of its trams decked out as an adver-
tisement for a popular Australian-made
motor-car. Till now the Transport Com-
mission has succeeded in giving the im-
pression that its policy is to stop people
using cars and make them use its trams,
and buses. Perhaps the latest move is a
stunt to lure people into at least one tram.
• •
Succinct comment on the progress of
Commonwealth finance:
1918-19: Total expenditure, cost
of running all Commonwealth
Departments, including Post
Office £16,194,278
1953 : Commonwealth subsidy on
the price of butter .. .. £16,000,000
A Milk Bottle Recovery Board has
been found in Melbourne. One day the
Prices Branch fixed the deposit on milk-
bottles at 3d. for pint and 2d. for half-
pint. That night the Milk Distributors’
Association said it would be 4d. on pint-
bottles after July 1. The Prices Com-
missioner replied that “deposit charges
on glass containers were subject to price-
control,” and added that the losses re-
ported by the Milk Bottle Recovery
Board would be “investigated.” Is there
a board whose losses haven’t had to be
investigated at some time or other?
9 9
Was there an element of stand-from-
under in Heffron’s comment after the
Dulwich Hill by-election: “Mr. Mallam
is a close personal friend of the Premier,
who, I am sure, will be pleased at the
result.”
9 9
A vast area of diy grass and weeds,
rapidly developing into a fire risk, is
about all that remains of the big Socialist-
inspired Peak Downs sorghum-cattle
farm in Queensland. Wolfgang, a 52,000-
acre portion of the scheme, is now carry-
ing only 3000 head of stock, and only
about 15 p.c. of the whole area is under
crop. The great stunt began in April,
1948, just as the £35-million African
peanut scheme was heading for ruin; it
was abandoned last February after
Queensland had agreed to pay £1,200,000
for the wreckage. Altogether it was, a
thoroughly bad show —as was here fore-
cast from the beginning.
■ • •
Calwell told a Brisbane A.L.P, Youth
audience that what amazed many people
outside Queensland was;
How can Queenslanders vote consistently
for Labor in the State sphere, but not
equally consistently in the Federal sphere?
One answer, of course, is that if Queens-
land followed the example of other States
and adopted the Federal electoral roll
the apparent inconsistency might dis-
appear. Another possible answer is
Arthur Calwell.
•9 *
“8.5.”: As an Australian author with
sales in U.S.A. I can’t understand Senator
Ashley. He, says the new agreement
between Australia and America to avoid
double-taxation will result in a loss of
dollars. Before the agreement every
Australian author was taxed a flat 30 p.c.
by America on his gross receipts, no
deductions allowable for agent’s commis-
sions, etc. That meant that of every
$lOOO an Australian earned in U.S.A.
$3OO remained there. Under the agree-
ment he now gets the full $lOOO and pays
only Australian income tax.
Those clergy who oppose introduction
of television into Australia may have to
reconsider. It is being seriously claimed
that in Britain T.V. is ruining the night
trade in London hotels, beer sales are
falling, and some publicans have had to
take other work to keep them going.
• •
“Sam”: Portuguese railways used to
be State-controlled. Year after year
there was a steady loss. Some years ago
the Government sold most of the system
to a private company. Deficits have
•
been replaced by substantial profits, and
the change has not been effected at the
expense of service. On the contrary, the
rolling-stock is most sumptuous, and,
according to English traveller-journalist
Gordon Cooper—who in some other
matters is no admirer of things Portu-
guese-travelling on the Portuguese rail-
ways is very pleasant. Any Australian
Governments interested?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
with WIMBLES INKS"
“Q. Rce”: Maybe someone qualified
to speak will tell me the value of “primi/
live” art as distinct from the artistic
efforts of primitive peoples. I can’t help
thinking that if art assailed our eyes as
music (or noise) does our ears, the
“primitive” and grotesque would not get
such a showing. If a “primitive” pianist,
who had “never had a lesson in his life,”
mounted the concert platform, the kindest
thing that would be said to him would
be: “You have some talent. Now get a
good teacher and study really hard for
a few years. Then we’ll be prepared to
listen to you.” Am I wrong in thinking
“That’s the boy—open wide!”
the same principle should be applied to
artists? ...
* v v
“Tarp”: For me, the week after Pearl
Harbor will always be memorable be-
cause it included two Tuesdays, two
Thursdays but no Wednesday. We
sailed from Auckland for Panama on
Sunday, December 7, 1941—24 hours
or so before the raid. Travelling east,
we crossed the 180th meridian on Tues-
day the 9fli. Thus, the following day
• was still Tuesday the 9th. We next
* received Naval instructions to return to
Auckland, so, turning round, we recrossed
the meridian to find ourselves in Thurs-
day the 11th. We steamed towards
Auckland for nine or ten hours, then
the Navy changed its mind and sent a
second message, “Pray proceed on
voyage.” We did so, crossed the
meridian for the third time, into a second
Thursday the 11th.
“Enn Kay”: Perfect-phrase department.
A Bulletin scribe of the ’nineties de-
scribed a lady caught by her husband
in flagrante as “wearing a complete
Venus costume trimmed in the Godiva
style.”
♦♦♦
“Cauboy”: Noticed that when Nancy
Lee Sze was accompanying her singer
husband at Melbourne Town Hall she
at one time seemed to have a score in
which white notes were printed on black
paper. Don’t know whether this is an
old Chinese custom, but the late Edward
Goll, of Melbourne, told of a strange
experience in pre-Soviet Russia when he
opened the lid of the piano at a concert.
The black notes on the keyboard were
white and the white notes were black.
He said the effprt to adapt himself to the
change was one of the biggest tests of
his whole career.
♦jt
“E. & 0.E.”: From a friend in Eng-
land comes the news of an unreported
Coronation celebration—a delightful pro-
posal to place a posy of flowers in the
hands of every lady-statue in London.
I hope it was carried out; the lady-
statues are too few to cause much diffi-
culty or expense, and they would all no
doubt appreciate the attention. Queen
Victoria would come first, with her two
statues, one outside Buckingham Palace,
the other at her birthplace, Kensington
Palace. Then there is Queen Anne, outside
St. Paul’s, unkindly described as having
“her back to the church and her face to the
public-house.” The first Elizabeth does
not appear to have scattered her statue
in the open, but Boadicea, on West-
minster Bridge, surveys from her chariot
the representatives of her posterity from
regions Cassar never knew. Among non-
royal ladies, there is Nurse Cavell, near
Trafalgar Square. Surely no one would
begrudge her a posy to soften the ugli-
ness °f her stony memorial. And in a
charming little garden at the end of the
Houses of Parliament is Mrs. Pankhurst.
Though once less popular with members
than she is now, the posy of friendship
should be hers, too. Waterloo Place pro-
vides a space for Florence Nightingale,
near the Duke of York’s column, and I
don’t think the Lady of the Lamp would
disdain a posy.
* +
v ** v
“Pawang”: A correspondent of a Mel-
bournh daily seems to be the first to think
of this one. He suggests that the reported
explosion of an H-bomb capable of
enormous destruction to the physical
world surely gives rise to thoughts con-
cerning the possible effects of such an
explosion on the spirit world, assuming
that world to be within our solar system.
“F.F.”: The laying and blessing by
Cardinal Gilroy of the foundation-stone
of the St. Francis War Memorial and
Retreat House at Wahroonga (Sydney)
recalls that the first priest to set foot on
Australian soil was a Franciscan —Father
Receveur, who landed at Botany Bay
with La Perouse in 1788 and died and was
buried there a few days later. His grave
at La Perouse is still a place of pilgrimage
for French visitors. Another Franciscan,
Father Bonaventure Geoghegan, was the
first priest to celebrate Mass in Victoria.
Franciscans have been established as a
community in Sydney since 1879 and they
have 14 communities operating in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. The Retreat
House at Wahroonga will stand in six
acres of grounds and will have accom-
modation for 50 retreatants. It is in-
tended to cater for the spiritual needs of
laymen, a retreat being “a time for rest
of mind and body when a man sets aside
everything else to take stock of just how
he is progressing towards his eternal
destiny.”
“Karrimba”: Despite the efforts of
officialdom, the public will probably con-
tinue to have the last word in most cases.
Take the latest solemn pronouncement
from the Department of Civil Aviation.
Apparently because of the. increase in
international air services to this country,
the names of the main airfields in our
capitals will be changed to correspond
with the cities they serve. Thus, Essen-
don becomes Melbourne; Eagle Farm,
Brisbane; Guildford, Perth; and so
on. Magnanimously, however, Sydney’s
’drome may still be referred to as “Kings-
ford Smith” airfield. It has evidently
been dVerlooked that this will have no
effect whatsoever on the vast majority of
Australian air travellers, to whom it is
never anything but “Mascot.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.”: That the battle of the bowsers
is “still in full spate” is putting it mildly
(B. 10/6/’53). A reseller friend told me
a few points he had been taught. It’s
better to ask “Fill her up, mate?” than
“How many?” although the reverse is
the case on Wednesdays and Thursdays.
This is because the customer is likely to
be running out of the ready and it’s
better not to remind him of it. If the
cap of your petrol-tank locks and you
give your keys to the driveway attendant
it’s a safe bet he’ll unlock the boot and
check your spare—it’s usually the one
that needs the retread. When cleaning
your wind-deflectors he will note the
speedo reading to suggest an oil change.
The latest instructions are to get under
your bonnet. “Take the water-hose and
ask the customer to release the bonnet-
catch so you can top the water —imply-
ing that it’s absolutely necessary you
do so.” Once the bonnet is up there’s
no knowing what sales suggestions may
be made. Of course, all this doesn’t
come easily to the junkyard grease-boy
types, but they’re learning,
* * *
*
“The Missus”: Akin to the superstition
about breakages and disasters going in
threes (B. 10/ 6/ ’53) is the one favored
by a maiden lady of my acquaintance,
She believes that there is a sort of balance
in every family: if there is a death there
will be a birth to balance it, and vice
versa. Despite examples and arguments
to the contrary, she clings to her belief,
and all her friends understand the pensive
speculation with which she learns of an
expected addition to any family of her
acquaintance. She’s mentally reviewing
the whole tribe in an effort to forecast
the loser.
“Becks”: I suppose it’s only to be ex-
pected in this Atomic Age. My son,
rising eight, was idly singing a snatch
of song he’d heard on the radio. I
caught the words “Lady of Space, I
adore you.” After listening a couple of
times to make sure I’d heard him cor-
rectly, I asked, “Ever heard of a place
called Spain?” “No,” he said. “Is it
on our earth or another one?”
*> ❖ *
“Sam”: R. S. Porteous, in his article
on the Archer family (B. 3/6/’53), made
no mention of Thomas Archer’s Recol-
lections of a Rambling Life, which was
published in Japan in the 1890’s, Charles
Barrett, in one of his books, says that
only 25 copies were printed, all for mem-
bers of the Archer clan. One found its
way into the Mitchell Library. Twenty
years ago the “Sydney Mail” ran the
book as a serial. It presents a vivid pic-
ture of pioneering days in Australia and
the gold-rush era in California. Tom’s
literary style is breezy, and has the quiet
humor noted by Porteous as character-
istic of the Archer letters. There’s
material in the book for a first-class film.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nimrod” : One of the most severe
skirmishes' carried on by our group of
the V.D.C, in two years of vigorous
paper-warfare was caused when the
colonel, according to my interpretation
of a 50-word blast in a two-fingered
typewriter attack, ordered a battalion
H.Q. to “retain” a mortar which it had
on loan for training purposes. During
ensuing days I wondered now and then
at increasingly feverish inquiries re a
missing mortar, but did not connect it
with my typing effort until, after sundry
phone-calls, the Old Man rummaged
through the waste-paper to point out
with quivering finger and few, but most
incisive, words that he had written
“return.”
♦>
WINTER
Within the gloom the early lights are lit,
Adown the streets bright windows shine
in rows;
And now cold winter also sees to it —
With icy hand again lights up my nose.
Victoria. Hacko.
THE WHITE-MAN IN THE
WOODPILE
‘I will tell our people that white men work
harder in their own country than the Papuan
natives. We are dependent on the white man
working. While the white man works we can
expect a good life.” — Sergeant-Major Guise, on
his return from the Coronation with the Royal
Papuan and New Guinea Constabulary con-
tingent.
It used to be the thing to say
Before man’s love for man grew bigger,
When anybody earned his pay,
“Poor chap; he’s working like a
nigger !’’
Now, having seen the world-at-large
From the day-laborer to the nightman,
Papuans would reverse the charge :
“Poor chap; he’s working like a white-
man !”
But such as know how white men’s ways
Have raised the price of house and diet
May deprecate the newer phrase
And even feel insulted by it.
Indeed, there is a fresh design
Among us, to prevent the lurking
Suspicion of a color-line,
And merely say, “Poor chap; he’s
working !”
A nd, as we near the sfatic norm •
Congealing mankind on the map,
We shall achieve a final form :
“Poor chap / Poor chap ! Poor chap !
Poor chap I”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Euroclydon”: Three days after my
operation the Mother Rectress found me
still sleepless and asked if there was any-
thing I’d specially like. I idly suggested
a bottle of Melbourne beer, thinking
that was about the last thing I’d be
likely to get. Half an hour later the
matron came back, a dark bottle incon-
gruous against her floating robes. “What
will my doctor say?” I wondered. “We
don’t tell the doctor everything,” she
said as she poured it out. “Here’s to
your good health.” After that I slept
the sleep of the just-about-finished.
* * *
“Melb’n” • As with the ancient Greeks,
the Melbourne Olympics won’t be all
ShlcEfcs The S Olympia was a
valley in Jjie Peloponnesus which ranked
“ Ambrose!”
with Delphi as a religious Mecca. Every
frfsh invader introduced new gods and
erected temoleTto them in the sacred
grove of Altis and they were decorated
with statues by famous sculptors like
Phidias and Praxiteles which have since
fpund their way into the British Museum
and the Louvre. There were dramatic
contests at which the greatest dramatists
competed, and many of the tragedies of
Sophocles, Euripides and were
first performed there. There were
rhapsodists who spouted Hesiod and
Homer poets who read out their odes
and lyrics; Aristophanes aired his
devastating satires in the arena, and no
doubt philosophers indulged in dialecti-
cal competitions. The cultural section of <
the Olympic Games in Melbourne will
comprise painting, architecture, sculp-
ture, literature and music, and the ;
organising committee will soon be at full
blast circularising the various nations so
that intending contestants can start on
their plays and pictures. An unfortunate
condition is that each entry in the com-
petitions must have a sporting motif, so
no doubt our sculptors will soon be getting
busy on Phar Lap at the National
Museum.
* ❖
"Pat”: They sat in front of me at the
film of the Coronation, the mother whose
daughter was in England and the mother
whose daughter was not. Throughout,
the former peppered her companion with
a running commentary on what daughter
had “aksherly” seen. Always she was
met with a patiently murmured, “Fancy,
now.” Until the end. “That’s what they
call the trooping of the color dear.
Dorrie’s seen that, too. Oh, she s seen
everything,” said Number 1. “Poor
Dorrie, standing round in those crowds.
Does she still have that trouble with her
corns, dear?” responded Number 2 solici-
tously.
♦j» ❖
“Ceg”: Those Newcastle prawners and
the coal (B. 10/6/’53). Queenscliffe, at
Port Phillip Heads (Vic.), also gets its
share of black diamonds washed up by
the tide. About 16 years ago a collier
loaded with best Maitland coal went
ashore in the Lonsdale Bight, and to get
her afloat again some 6000 tons were
jettisoned. At first the stuff was washed
up on to the beach in such large quan-
tities that all sorts of conveyances were
used to cart it away. The residents of
the ’Cliffe started using it in their wood-
burning stoves, but with such disastrous
results that the local blacksmith was kept
busy repairing burnt-out fire-boxes. It
still comes ashore when the tides are
favorable, but, unlike the prawners
harvest, it is now all worn very smooth.
It burns fiercely, and with firewood at
£5 a ton is worth picking up. Local
beachcombers get quite a lot of fun look-
ing for it, and the finding of a specially
large chunk is comparable to the find-
ing of a nugget in the old goldmining
days.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“C.Q. ’: Lucky finds in old buildings
(B. 10/6/’53)? An unlucky find was
that the massive beams always believed
to be solid oak in the roof of the Wilson
Hall at Melbourne University were really
only oregon boxed in oak. Not so the
three or four pairs of huge doors. These
were solid carved oak nearly Ift, thick,
worth today a lot of money. They were
a lucky find for an artist, who preserved
them by buying them from the wreckers
while the University Council was arguing
the point as to whether or not the hall
was to be rebuilt.
“NX ‘f^lwkiS
cates (B. 17/6/ 53) nave p . , ,
for many, including one absent-minded
bloke of my acquaintance. When ma
power wM most scarce, jhe estabhshnrent
wherein I toil would start 10 new em
ployees on Monday and have nine others
leave on Tuesday. J en
on Wednesday and finandJ^ear
day. At fixe end of one financial ye
the pay-office was sorely by
a number of short-time ex-employees
who called to dispute hotly the more-
than-generous wage-figures given on their
certificates. The mystery was solved
within minutes when it was noted that
all the complainers had worked in the
only section where pays were distributed
by a foreman. He had often forgotten
to notify the paymaster of resignations
and he’d also forgotten that group-cer-
tificates existed and would be posted.
He had plenty of time to study a memory-
training course ? in the following three
years.
♦>
“Taswegian”: Those Norwegian ship-
owners (B. 10/6/’53) won’t regret starting
a self-service system in their saloons. We
struck a hotel at Mildura where it was in
“NEVER fall in love With a patient. Sister.”
force: you gave your order for the main
dishes and then helped yourself to cereal
or porridge at breakfast, soup at lunch
and dinner, tea or coffee; when your
name was called (and there wasn t long
to wait) you took your dirty bowl to the
counter and collected the next course.
The system had several advantages: you
always got what you ordered, you got
it hot, the novelty served to break the
ice among the guests, it was fast the
manager and his daughter served a crowd
more quickly than six waitresses —and,
believe it or not, the bill for three meals
and bed was ten-bob! And I’m not
harking back a quarter-of-a-century —
April, 1948, was the date.
*• ❖
An international' problem is
being presented by the behavior of the
Magnetic South Pole, which, according
to a Melbourne meteorological professor,
is slowly moving north, being now 20
miles on the Australian side of the Aus-
tralian-French Antarctic border. At the
present rate of progress the Pole should
be French property one of these days.
It can’t be intercepted at the frontier
for not carrying a passport like Erna
Sack, the singer, who was stopped at
Honolulu by the American authorities
and had to go round the world the other
way about in order to fulfil her engage-
ment with the Taits in Australia. It
will be no use Canberra asking the
French to extradite the Pole once it gets
over the border, and it hasn’t a scrap of
Australian sentiment that can be appealed
to. Unless the C.5.1.R.0. can do some-
thing we’ll just have to write it off as a
dead loss.
“J.K.D.”: Sign -of these inflated
times! Thieves broke into a Brisbane
suburban shop, ignored the cash-box and
decamped with 21b. of bacon!
❖
“Bo”: I beg to report further on a
mysterious civic undertaking. The
furious inactivity which for a few years
followed the fencing-off of part of
Sydney’s Belraore Park, and inside which
was placed an ancient fowlhouse-like
structure which some months ago was
spirited away, has now come to an end.
The expensively-erected fence —the
palings were set so close together, obvi-
ously to frustrate anyone who may have
tried to descry what was going on inside,
that I suspect they were tongued-and-
grooved —has now been demolished, and
motor-mowers are reaping the lush
harvest of weeds. Heaps are stacked
everywhere, no doubt to be garnered and
stored away against the possibility of a
prolonged drought. Why, you ask,
should our Civic Fathers want to hoard
ensilage? That’s anybody’s guess. Full
of foresight, as always, they may envisage
a time during the coming Royal tour
when the Royal car will break down and
a horse-drawn vehicle may have to be
pushed into service. Then they can
triumphantly trot out the necessary
fodder, gained at the trifling cost of
denying to the public for a long period
the use of part of its shrinking parklands.
♦♦♦ ❖
“8.A.K.”: On my way to visit an
architect friend I read an interesting little
article on Buckingham Palace. Last year,
apparently, was the two-hundred-and-
fiftieth anniversary of the building,
George 111 having bought it in 1762, at
a cost of £25,000. Later I was invited
to inspect the plan my host had just
completed —sizeable service-station and
garage with a large, well-appointed dwell-
ing on the first floor. “How much would
you say that will cost to build?” asked
the architect. With a thought for modern
prices I took a rough stab: “Seventeen
or eighteen thou . . He grinned. “I
wish you were right,” he said; “I esti-
mate it to run very close to £25,000.”
It brought a staggering thought: In 1752
a palace containing 690 rooms could be
bought for £25,000; today, the same
amount buys a service-station; what sort
of a shack will our grandchildren get for
their twenty-five thousand smackers?
♦♦♦ ‘i*
“Craiser”: Australia’s most devoted
artist? A former pupil of Max Meldrum
who used a street lamp in Bourke-street
as a studio because the room he had in
a boarding-house in Fitzroy wasn’t large
enough for him to walk back and survey
his canvas. He was 80.
❖
“W.D.F.”: The dear old soul was
admitted to hospital suffering from
jaundice. She said she felt quite well, but
was worried about turning so yellow.
After questioning she admitted to having
had a blood-transfusion some months
before. She then looked carefully
around the ward and whispered to me
“Do they allow Chinamen to become
blood-donors?” .
* ❖ ❖
“Alray”: On the staff of a passenger-
ship—in which I served in pre-war days
—were several lads from a naval training-
ship ; they were signed on as deck boys.
One had been rated as bugler, his job
being to sound the calls for meals and
so on. It was hard to say just where
the midget stowed the wind he used, but
when he sounded a call the vibration
shook the funnel. One evening I was
shaving in my quarters on the boat-deck,
using an old-fashioned cut-throat razor,
when just outside my door sounded the
raucous bellow of the bugle—blowing the
“Dinner” call. I got such a shock that
I nearly slit my beezer. Recovering, I
roared the tripe out of the kid for blow-
ing his infernal instrument outside my
door. Giving me a dirty look, the imp
sniffed and said, “If I blows it for ard
the Old Man says ‘Go aft!’ If I blows
it aft the Pusser says Tike it away for’-
ard!’ Now you’re going crook. Gor-
blimy. Mister, I’ve gotta blow the bleed-
ing thing somewhere, ain’t I?”
REASSURING
“It is only to blessed night that modern man
can turn for that peace in his home which alone
is a balm for his day-harassed nerves.”— Radio
speaker.
With the washing-up done
And some peace, at last, won,
In a chair with the paper you settle.
But your prospect is bleak;
Comes a yell, then a shriek —
Oh. the kids are in fine vocal fettle.
Now you’re getting wild-eyed.
So you push ’em outside.
There’s a crash —and the window goes
jagged;
Here’s another to-do,
It’s the footie gone through;
But don’t say your nerves are still
ragged!
When the uproar has ceased
(Though your b.-p.’s increased)
To the rag you once more give
attention.
Then one of them asks —
It’s just one of your tasks —
What’s the meaning of “preappre-
hension,’’
Whether X equals Y
Or how Pi you apply ?
The answers, of course, take some
finding.
When the missus comes in
You take more on the chin —
Her accounts, or some wool to be
winding.
It’s about half-past four
When the party nextdoor
Starts to break up. How you’d like to
strangle
The cows! You’re awake.
It’s no wonder you shake.
With your nerves all a horrible jangle.
Muscles twitch in your knees.
So you chew A.P.Cs.
Three hours’ sleep, and you wake,
wan and weary,
But don’t fret. You’re all right.
It’s so peaceful, the night,
And so good for the nerves — well, in
theory.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of Me bunch
since
t 847
Gtloiub
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1943 Squadron-leader J. G. Cornish
was busily engaged bombing Japs from
Milne Bay. Five years later he was even
busier, “bombing” Berlin with food and
coal via the air-lift. Five years later
again, he’s off for what might not be
the busiest, but will certainly be the
most important, part of his flying career
—two months’ training in England with
the Queen’s Flight. For Cornish has
picked up a most succulent R.A.A.F.
pastie—selection to captain the Dakota
which will carry the Queen and Duke on
next year’s Royal tour.
The short burst of music to which the
Queen comes home to Buckingham
Palace in the magnificent Coronation film
now showing at the State Theatre in
Sydney is something to move a Maori
heart. The fairy-tale carriage rolls up
to the gate, the horses of the Life Guards
prance, the crowd moves to close in from
the Mall when those few bars enchant the
well-washed London air. They came
from the “Waiata Poi,” popularised long
ago in Europe by Watkin Mills, Ken-
nedy Rumford, Ada Crossley and Rosina
Buckman. The composer is that quiet
Melburnian- Maorilander who still
catches the Mosman boat in Sydney—
Alfred Hill, now round his fourth score
of years, but still hale and hearty,
A new honor has come to Dr. Donald
Thomson, O.B.E.—the Rivers Memorial
Medal from the council of the Royal
Anthropological Society for his work
among the aborigines of Arnhem Land.
Holder of quite a mass of academic
honors, Thomson learnt Binghi customs
the hard way; he lived, sometimes on his
own and sometimes with his wife, with
the wild blacks, and later was a lone
Special Commissioner of the vast region
under a mandate from the Commonwealth
Government, at a time when stray Japs
were unsettling the tribal customs and
the natives’ tempers. It was then he dis-
covered the existence in N.Q. of invading
Papuan hero-cults of great antiquity. A
biologist as well as an anthropologist,
his desire to preserve a large snake he
had caught made him carry the snake on
his back while his wife carried the
baggage on a 100-mile tramp to the coast
and back—if he had left it the reptile
would have been eaten. In War II he
carried on his researches in a trawler be-
hind Jap lines, and was sometimes dropped
behind the same lines in jungle country
to contact friendly Papuans. He was
badly wounded and invalided out on a
stretcher, but got down to Australia with
a box of snakes still under the stretcher.
He has collated a houseful of material
while running a big farm on the Yarra.
“W.E.F.”: P. Neville Barnett, dead in Sydney
at 72, was a world authority on book-plates and
Japanese color-prints, and a producer of de-luxe
books that were a joy to collectors. An Old
Fortian, for several years secretary of the
Aust. Painter-Etchers’ Society, for the past 20
years he was the librarian at the Bank of
N.S.W., Sydney. Barnett’s interest in book-
plates goes back more than 30 years to the time
when the only collectors in that field in Sydney
were John Lane Mullins, Lyster Ormsby,
Bertram Stevens and G. L, Garnsey. In 1929
he wrote an article on book-plates for the
American Society of Book Collectors’ Year
Book; it gave him the idea of reprinting the
article in brochure form and started him on
his career as a producer of fine-arts books.
He brought out five substantial and authoritative
tomes on bohk-plates. Sumptuously produced
and packed with information, each was a col-
lector’s delight, and they are unrivalled in their
field. An indication of his energy and enthusiasm
is the fact that he collected 80,000 plates for the
five books and inserted 'each plate in its place
himself. Between 1934 and 1948 he produced
six magnificent books on Japanese color-prints.
The subtle coloring and fragile delicacy of the
prints in these limited editions are breathtaking,
and his productions won him the praise of
discerning connoisseurs all over the world. A
modest and courteous fellow, Barnett’s passion
for beautiful books overcame a host of obstacles
that would have daunted one less enthusiastic.
His constitution was never a robust one, yet
he worked incredible hours to finish a task in
hand. He had only one aim—to produce a
work of art that was as perfect as he could
make it. That he earned his reward in his
lifetime in the recognition he received was a
source of quiet pride that none of his friends
begrudged him.
Old Digger and Perth lawyer, Percival
James Barblett has found a new job
with an ancient history—being appointed
Procurator of the Presbyterian Church
of Westralia. In War I he served over-
seas with the 4th Field Ambulance, and
several years after his return to civilian
life bucked in and did his law course
at the Westralian University. He has
been Warden of Convocation and ex
officio member of the University Senate
since 1940. The job of procurator has
both a legal and a fiscal significance,
having been designed, in the first in-
stance, to restrain the extravagance of the
Scots.
R. F. G. Fogarty, the robust chairman
of Victorian Associated Brewers, can
be depended on to give an apt comment
when he is fighting for his industry’s in-
terests, whether making a company-
report or answering the charges of some
anti-liquor spokesman in the papers. Giv-
ing evidence to the royal commission
on television in Melbourne the other day
he came out with “When Cleopatra is
televised trying to dissolve a pearl in
wine for the entertainment of Mark
Antony, there will be angry demands
that the wine be replaced by cold tea or
some other appropriate non-alcoholic
solvent.”
For some reason or other Scandin-
avians have always been more interested
in Australia, especially that part of it
which is least like their own country,
than any other Europeans; some of the
best books about the “Dead Heart” have
been written by the lads from the Lands
of the Midnight Sun, In the tradition,
Jens Bjerre, a young Danish reporter, now
proposes to head north from Alice Springs
and film in color a lot of the territory
covered by Charles Mountford. It was a
reading of the anthropologist’s Brown
Men and Red Sand which started Bjerre
on the expedition. He has made films
of African bushmen and Himalayan
tribes in Tibet and Kashmir.
Summed-up by Coventry, affable John
Flanagan, savior of schoolkids, inventor
of the book Numbers, the new method of
teaching nippers to manipulate figures.
Sales of the book in Australia are
nudging 200,000. Born in Adelaide,
Flanagan was a primary-schoolie till, in
NUMBERS
1948, he resigned to develop his arith-
metical interests commercially. He’s
also invented a cardgame, “Covers,” a
guide, “Arithmetic Comes to Life,” and
produced “Calculo,” a ready-reckoner
sort of reference which tells you every-
thing from wine- and beer-measures to
an antidote for snakebite. Flanagan now
runs his own company, Twentieth Cen-
tury Inventions, Ltd. Talking of figures,
he weighs 16£ stone and was T.A.A.’s
three-millionth passenger, thus winning
a round-Australia trip which he expects*
to take shortly.
Drawn by Woolcott (who, being the
Navy’s top-ranking dentist, the first to
gain his captaincy, knows a thing or two
of drawing). Dr. Earl Pound, brought
from the U.S. by the Queensland branch
of the Australian Dental Association to
lecture at the fang-farriers’ congress held
recently in Brisbane. Woolcott, who
attended the congress, reckons that Pound
had his audience gritting its teeth in
interest —the visitor’s subject being pros-
thodontia (false-teeth to you). As he’s
recognised as the leading prosthodontist
in California, and works in Hollywood,
it’s more than probable that Australian
GRINDERS
filmgoers have seen his work flashing
from the mouths of curvaceous screen-
beauties. The word “curvaceous” is one
of Pound’s'favorites. He is particularly
fond of French curves, and carries with
him a swag of quite irrelevant picture-
slides of beautiful legs—that is, of tables,
chairs and such. A cheery cove with
an incisive wit and a fund of good stories,
in the U.S, Navy in War 11, Pound will
lecture in Sydney on his toothsome sub-
ject.
There was no better-known figure in
clerical broadcloth in Sydney’s R.C.
circles than Monsignor James Meany,
gone to his account at 74. He was born
at Blarney, County Cork, and headed
Australiawards at the turn of the century
—to hold pretty well every diocesan post
except Vicar-General. Frosty-pated,
though still young in mind and heart, he
was known for a genius in organising, a
measure of which was the competence
( with which he organised the 1928 Inter-
national Eucharistic Congress in Sydney,
the first in Australia. From that
stemmed his interest in broadcasting. To
publicise the congress, he rented time
on 2UE. Pleasantly astounded by what
today would be called listener-rating, he
determined to found a Catholic station.
Within three years, raising funds almost
single-handed, he secured the licence for
2SM. The station opened on Christmas
Eve, 1931. Realising radio’s value for
publicising charitable functions, he
turned his attention to journalism, be-
came a director of the Catholic Press
Newspaper Co., and, in 1942, merged
the two Catholic papers into the present
“Catholic Weekly.” A golfer of some
mark in his day, he was one of the
founders of St. Michael’s G.C., at La
Perouse.
“G.”: A revolution in the home is
promised by the inventive genius of a
New Australian, plus the business enter-
prise of another. The brain-child is a
home-knitting machine which can run
off a pair of woollen socks in two hours
and a jumper in eight. A Rumanian
engineer, William Rajnai, sold it to Walter
Pisterman, managing-director of a
Hughesdale factory, who came from
Switzerland in 1938 and married an Aus-
tralian. She thought it was silly at first,
but now can’t keep her hands off it. The
price is £l4, and 12,000 machines have
been sold locally in seven months.
Pisterman, after a visit to the U.S., has
come back with orders for 200,000.
“F.S.”: Cecil Leventhorpe McVilly,
one of the three commissioners on whom
the Galvin axe has fallen over the Hos-
pitals and Charities Commission row in
Melbourne, is an Old Digger who served
in France and with the Dunsterforce in
Mesopotamia and Persia and in the Cau-
casus, gaining an M.C. and a “mention.”
After that shindy he joined the Repatria-
tion Commission and then became Inspec-
tor of Charities before becoming the Hos-
pital Commission’s first chairman in
1948. He was a notable amateur sculler,
winning the Australian championship
three times and the Diamond Sculls at
Henley (Eng.) in 1913.
The pomp and circumstance of a civic
reception at the Melbourne Town Hall
was interrupted when Sir William Slim’s
eye caught the gleam of a red ribbon and
the G.-G. broke the line of solemn
Bumbles to interrogate the owner. He
was Town Hall liftman Bill Jackson, bora
at Gunbar, near Hay (N.S.W.), and the
ribbon was the V.C. he gained near
Armentieres in 1916 when he rescued a
large number of wounded men under
fire and also captured prisoners. Nine-
teen years, he was the youngest Digger
at the time to win the Cross.
With four years in as chief-engineer
of the Queensland Main Roads Commis-
sion, Arthur Ridley Williams is rigged
well enough to hold down his recent
appointment as the commission’s Com-
missioner. Old Digger, and, in War 11,
in charge of materials for the Allied
Works Council in Queensland, Williams
hails from the Mt. Buffalo country in
Victoria, and laid his foundations as
engineer to several Victorian shire-
councils. The Gillies Highway, a scenic
road up the Caims Range, is his baby.
“Ek Dum”: My old friend Sir Donald
Cameron, of Light Horse fame, informs
me that X was wrong (B. 23/6/’53) in
assuming that the 25th Chieftain of
Lochiel was still alive—he passed over a
few months ago, and was succeeded by
his son, also Donald, bora in 1910, who
joined the Lovat Scouts in 1929, was pro-
moted lieutenant-colonel in 1945. There
is a young Donald to assure that there
will be a 27th Chieftain, bora August 2,
1946, and therefore likely to carry on
the Lochiels into the 21st century.
Info the Silence:
At Tuahiwi (N.Z.), William David Barrett, a
descendant of notable Maori chieftains and a
leader of the Ngai-Tahu tribe in the South
Island. HtFwas a grandson of the “Dicky”
Barrett who established Barrett’s Hotel in
Wellington and gave his name to the reef in
Wellington Harbor on which the Wanganella
landed a few years back. Educated at Te Aute
College, W.D. had as schoolfellows Sir Peter
Buck, Sir Aparina Ngata and Sir Maui Pomare.
An authority on Maori land and laws, he was
an advocate in the Native Land Court, and
an owner of racers.
At Ballarat, Mrs. Margaret Adair, aunt of
the Prime Minister. She was the widow of
Harry Adair, a member of a pioneer Ballarat
business family.
At Pennant Hills, out of Sydney, Noel Burnet,
the best friend the koala ever had. The first
to keep them successfully in captivity, he
founded Koala Park, an acreage of talk gums
at Pennant Hills, and worked particularly hard
to keep his pets during World War 11. Koala
Park ranks with Tarpnga as a mecca for
nippers.
In Perth, at 79, Herbert Maurice Parkes,
Onslow businessman, one-time master-pearler,
and as well-known on Wogtralia’s n.-w.-coast
as the Ninety-Mile Beach. From a shipping-
office in Perth, he joined a brother in the
pearling industry, and by World War I was a
master-pearler operating his own fleet, using the
Monte Bello Islands as a base for his luggers
during the lay-up season. When the bottom
fell out of the pearling industry, he went into
business in Onslow. On shore, he had been
chairman of the Ashburton road-board, sec-
retary of the local turf-club and a vital mem-
ber of the Pearlers’ Association.
In Brisbane, at 65, Nelson Burns, probably
the northern State’s best-known dramatic critic,
on the “Courier-Mail” for the past 14 years,
and never seen without a beard, a warm grin
and a waggish walking-stick. Burns started
romantically, as an island-trader on a lugger
in the South Seas. The Tongan king invited
him to educate his subjects, one of his pupils
being the present Queen Salote, of Coronation
memory. Later, Burns worked on the Sydney
“Daily Guardian,” the “Argus,” and helped
found the Melbourne “Star.” For many years,
at its editor’s invitation, he contributed articles
to the American “Variety.” “Te Pana” was ,
his nib-name.


COMMUNICATION


ABORIGNALITIES
“Narooma”: At times southern
beaches of N.S.W. are thick with
corpses of mutton-birds, victims of
either an insatiable appetite or of
a frustrated will to survive. There
the birds live largely on brit —the favorite
food of the whale as well —and not upon
plankton, as has been claimed in recent
Bulletin pars. Sometimes the brit —
long streams of marine life —float at or
near the surface ; at others, it sinks, some-
times to a considerable depth. When this
occurs the birds dive for it, until the
stage is reached where they must either
give up eating and die of starvation, or
dive to excessive depths for tucker, _and
die as the result of excessive pressure
and its attendant complications. Appa-
rently not possessed of sufficient intelli-
gence to switch to another form of
fodder, it chooses the latter course, with
the sad results aforementioned. It
seems to me to be about the finest ex-
ample of a dilemma one could wish not
to be placed in. There must have been
a sardonic grin on the face of
Mother Nature when she thought up that
one.
* ♦ * ♦
“Warrabulla”: Was once associated
with a team of musterers in nor’-
Westralia whose native members started
each day with a “white-man” breakfast
of chops, eggs, bread, jam and butter.
At midday they’d consume a cut lunch
which had been straining the seams
of their saddle-bags. In the evening
they'd wolf into soup, meat-and-veg. and
pudding, with more bread, jam and
butter. Then, retiring to their own fire,
they’d roast emu-eggs, stumpy-tailed
lizards, porcupines and other small game
captured during the day as a relaxation
from the exhausting task of sitting on
a horse and hallooing at such sheep as
happened to spring up right in their
paths. Thus fortified for the next eight
foodless hours, the party would turn-in
in an Bft. x 6ft. tent; sand would be
heaped on the lower edges of the side-
walls to exclude any dangerous night airs
and the flap would be treated similarly
after being closely laced. I’d like to see
a Belsen gas-chamber struggling with a
batch of those boys—my money would
be on the Binghis every time.
♦ * * ♦
“M.H.E.”: The new koala sanctuary
in Kuringai Chase, near Sydney, which
is to provide a permanent "breeding-
ground for the 30 survivors of white
savagery in that locality, will be com-
pleted next September, which will be in
time to allow a celebration of the native-
bear sesquicentenary in the month fol-
lowing. Though the first scientific report
on Old Blue Nose was made by Colonel
Paterson in March, 1804 (B. 27/5/’53) —
there had been mention of an animal like
a sloth called a cullawine in 1798 —the
exact date of his entry into polite society
was October 10, 1803, when a live speci-
men was brought into Sydney by natives.
The date is fixed by D. D. Mann in his
book on N S. Wales (1810). It seems
to me that it should —in the light of all
that artist has done to promote affection
for the quaint little animal —be officially
named Norman Lindsay Day and de-
clared a public holiday for all children
under 93.
* * ♦ •
“Bass”: One of the finest floors I’ve
seen or walked on was in a farmhouse
out from Dumbleyung (W.A.). The
cocky had simply melted blackboy-gum
and poured it out, then smoothed it as it
set. The floor was brown and smooth,
and a rub over with a damp cloth
occasionally was all that it needed to
make it look like new. I’ve since won-
dered why that gum wasn’t more widely
used.
* * * *
“C. Coral”; Tobacco was known to
the New Guinea people before the white
man’s first call; early European
visitors found the Papuans smoking
cigars or using the weed in big bamboo
pipes, Torres Strait islanders also were
familiar with tobacco; they grew it in
their gardens, and dried the leaf, festoon-
ing it round their houses. There was
great competition as to who could pro-
duce the best quality. One old chap on
Yorke Island told me that, when making a
tobacco-garden, the spot selected was pre-
ferably where a native wangai- tree had
been burnt down, leaving plenty of white
ashes; it had to be on level ground so
“ You'll never catch ME drinkin with the flies!"
that the rains might not wash away the
ashes. The seed was scattered during
the “nor’-west” (the monsoonal season);
it sprouted like fine grass, but if
approached too closely for inspection
purposes might shrivel up from the smell
given off by men’s bodies! When ready,
the young plants were transplanted.
During the south-east season, when the
plants were about 18in. high, the inner
part of a cabbage-tree was taken and
scraped, squeezed through a piece of
cloth-like sheath of the coconut-palm,
and sprinkled over the tobacco-leaf to
give it good flavor. When considered
mature, the leaf was dried over a fire
and tested in a bamboo pipe. “If it bite
you all same like that red chili, then he
good,” declared my informant.
♦ * * *
“Lemuel G.”: We’d been arguing
over the height of the big kurrajong
near the yards. Old Ben stuck his
back against the tree and then started
marching away from it, bobbing over
now and then to take a squint back-
wards between his legs. After a few of
these emu-antics he stopped, faced about,
marched back to the tree and announced
“Get the fly-spray , Wellington"
it as a bit over 60ft. Simply a case of
walking, bobbing, and squinting until
you can just see the top of the tree, and
the distance from that point to the base
is the height of the herbage.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The ’Ghans who
carted that bacon labelled “crockery”
(B. 3/6/’53) were dinkum enough where
pork was concerned, however elastic
their consciences were in other respects ;
and not a slice of bacon would have
gone on their camels if they’d known it.
I’ve seen them unload and leave the
entire cargo on the track when they
found they’d been deceived. I’ve never
known one to drink, either, but I’ve seen
them gamble, which is also against their
religion. Once saw a ’Ghan in a. two-up
ring in Bayley-street, Coolgardie. He
lost his cash and started on his team,
and went through that until he had only
his racing-camel left. Don’t know what
struggle went on behind his impassive
exterior, but finally he put the beast up
—I think for £3OO. That wasn’t an
outsize wager those days, but men who
had just lost three times that amount
sighed audibly when he won. That was
the turn of his luck. Within minutes
he’d won his team back and was off
beyond the reach of further temptation.
I’ve always had an idea that the Prophet
had a hand in that game, first frowning
on an erring son, and then extending a
hand to a man who had the guts to
stake his last, most treasured possession.
“N.0.P.M.”: Those W.A. Afghans
with their elastic consciences (B. 3/6/’53)
would have had the sympathy of an old
Sikh who used to grow peas for the
Melbourne market. After consigning his
produce old Kharta would collect the
stores ordered by his peapickers. These
would often include tobacco and corned-
beef, both of which Kharta’s religion
forbade him to touch. To get over this
trouble the local storekeeper would hang
individual packets on strings under
Kharta’s spring-cart, and the old fellow
would jog off quite contentedly with the
forbidden goods swinging about like
corks on a swaggie’s hat.
♦ * * ♦
“Wippegong”: “Salmon Gums” (B.
10/6/’53) answered his own query; the
night-heron is “a mighty light sleeper.”
So are his nocturnal cobbers. A spotted-
owl patronised a grey-box by my back-
fence the other day. I wouldn’t have
known if the soldier-birds hadn’t kicked
up such a racket, but once his perch was
revealed we couldn’t help noticing that,
as with “S.G.’s” visitor, ours followed
the movements of anything that passed
below. Yet most of the day-birds feed-
ing round about must miss these sleepers,
for if one of them is flushed in daylight
there’s an immediate clamor and chase,
usually led by the maggies and peewees,
and the stranger is picked on and abused
just because he is a stranger—a condition
not confined to the avian world. The
same thing can be seen in any domestic
fowl-run ; add another hen and it, will be
set upon, severally and in unison, stick-
ing its head in a corner until opportunity
comes for it to establish its place in the
pecking order—a social structure which,
again, is not restricted only to old chooks
with feathers.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Shamuseen”; Spear-fishing, as prac-
tised by the almost-amphibian Torres
Straits Island native—a method they have
used for centuries —is a most humane way
of hunting. The thrust is unerringly
directed at the brain-box, with the result
that the quarry dies instantaneously. The
practice is not seated in humane motives,
however; it is designed to prevent any
death-flurry which would stampede other
possible victims, Binghi undertaking his
submarine stalking purely for the pot and
not for recreation. In actuality the
native is ghoulish in his treatment of
game. The idea of giving the coup de
grace to an irreparably-injured pig or
dog has no place in the Binghi
psychology.
* * ♦ *
“Old-timer”: The creeks between
Craggy Mains and the Niemur were run-
ning bankers when Andy and Knight
went in to bring out a couple of hundred
stragglers. They finally got the sheep to
an island and then began punching them
over a bush-bridge to the safe side. An
old, long-tailed stag balked halfway over
and Andy rushed on to the bridge to deal
with him. Man and sheep fell into 10ft.
of racing water. “Can’t swim!” Andy
howled, whereupon Knight jumped in,
trudgeoned downstream after him and
dragged him out. They lay on the bank,
panting and shivering, for it was July,
then Andy said “We better light a fire
and dry-out.” Knight whipped a hand to
his pocket and, stricken, fished out a pulp
of matches and tobacco. Andy looked
at it, then, “Y’ silly, bustlin’ goat,” he
roared. “Didn’t y’ have the sense t’ chuck
y’r matches out of y’r pocket before y*
jumped in after me?”
CORONATION DAY AT MELROSE
It was quite a day at Melrose. All the folks
had come to town there,
And they gathered at the schoolhouse, but the
teacher didn’t frown there;
And they squeezed into the kiddies’ seats, but
not for sums or spelling.
There were prayers devoutly offered, there were
fervent anthems welling.
Yes —“The King of love my shepherd is” . . .
the words in beauty sounding,
While the people bowed in homage, and in
joyfulness abounding.
In the sunshine then they gathered, and the
echoes of a bell rose
Where the. people lifted up their hearts and
pledged themselves at Melrose.
Next they held a gay procession; there were
streamers, flags and bunting,
And the larger girls wore costumes made with
little morn for grunting;
While the smaller fry were cowboys, or they
sported whopping noses.
And their little sisters dressed like ladies —Trills
and lace and roses.
With a drum and rusty bugles came the band.
Another star thing
Was the chap who rode a home-made gadget
called a “penny-farthing”!
There were soldiers at attention, and at last a
happy yell rose
When the crowd beheld the glitter of the
smiling Queen of Melrose.
The procession broke in half because a truck
had lost its driver,
But they laughed,-while they were waiting, at
the draught-horse and Godiva;
There were floats with baby napkins, minstrels,
little maids-in-waiting,
And a barrow-load of clowns and pretty prams,
perambulating.
Through the gateway to the oval, with a picnic
feast to mop off —
And a truck was stuck beneath the gate until
they took its top off.
It was lunchtime, and most pleasing when a
most delicious smell rose:
There were Coronation patties at the old hotel
at Melrose.
In the afternoon the football . , . they decided
to burlesque it,
Men in girls’ kit, girls in men’s kit, mostly all
in one-big-mess kit! ,
There were whistles, shouts and shoving, and
it left them whole, but holey,
And by accident a ball or two would trespass
past the goalie.
Oh, they played and laughed and sported, and
■ their spirits mounted higher,
Till they almost reached the summit of the
near-by Mount Maria.
And though others climbed up Everest, or
marched in gay and swell rows,
Yet their hearts were just as fervent in the little
town of Melrose.
It was Coronation Day. Oh yes—the day was
surely gala,
In the streets and in the playgrounds, in the
kitchen, and the parlor;
There was little time for anything excepting
the rejoicing,
And the things they said at Melrose were the
words the world was voicing.
So they toasted her, the Princess, who was
.born to be their ruler;
(And a few went toasting near enough to land
them in the cooler!)
Then the sunset came in beauty, like a flush
of softest shell-rose;
Coronation Day was over in the little town of
Melrose.
S.A.
PETER BLADEN.


LONDON STORY*
“ T rust TILLEY
to make something Better!”
e
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released 'to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better I **
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it tbe new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better !!
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours —no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
RADIO'S FUNNIEST "MR. & MRS."
There’s never a dull moment in the household of “Fred
and Maggie Everybody”—and never a dull moment in
yours when you’re tuned to these evergreen radio
favourites. As a radio serial “Fred and Maggie” still enjoys
front-rank popularity after many years of laugh-filled
broadcasting. They’re brought to you with the good
wishes of the makers of Velvet Soap.
"FRED & MAGGIE"-Fridays at 7.30 p.m.
2GB • SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2CA 2LF 2WL 2LT 2PK 2MG 2MW 3CV 4GY 6MD 6WB 7LA
Produced by
(Ml.
Brmdmsting Service
“Gulliver”; I find it hard to believe
that ceaseless war must be waged on the,
fox —in sheep country, at any rate. I’m
prepared to believe that poultry-farming
is a different matter ; but in many years
spent in fox-country I’ve never seen any
evidence of lambs being attacked, even
in the earliest stages of growth, and, of
course, the idea of there being any
threat to grown sheep is out of the ques-
tion. On the other hand, I’ve seen ample
evidence, in the shape of small holes dug
through to rabbit burrows above the
nesting-places, that the handsome red
gentleman puts in quite a bit of time
working for the grazier instead of against
him.
* * * *
“Harbel”: We were demolishing an
old weatherboard house, and, as was the
custom in the old days, there was a
chimney in nearly every room. As was
also the custom, the hearths were filled
up with ashes and rubble (in these days
a properly-constructed hearth consists of
4in. of reinforced concrete suspended
from jamb to jamb, thus depriving
termites of their greatest haven). Nugg.,
the laborer, raking away the filling from
a hearth, suddenly registered amazement.
Among the ashes was the skeleton of a
full-grown cat. There were several
attempts to answer his question as to
how it got there. One, that it had crawled
in to die, probably from poisoning, after
the house was built, received no seconder
—there was no opening in the fender
walls. Somebody thought the feline had
huddled in a warm spot among the filling,
perhaps as a nest to have her kittens in,
and an .absent-minded or short-sighted
builder’s laborer had dumped a barrow
of ash-concrete over her. It wasn’t
wholly satisfactory, and a verdict of
“causes unknown” would no doubt have
been reached if a hail had not come from
another chimney. Choom had found a
cat in his hearth. Of the five hearths,
three were found to be mausoleums for
defunct fummies. What was behind that
we could still only guess.
* * * *
“Coonowrin”: “Lofty” (B. 10/6/’53)
may be right about the wastage in con-
version of red cedar, but to suggest this
as a reason for forestry authorities not
planting it is wide of the mark. The
chief reason for not establishing planta-
tions of this species is the damage done
by the red cedar tip-moth. The larvae
of this moth feed upon tips of young
shoots, causing excessive branching and
crooked stems. Under natural condi-
tions the trees are usually scattered and
damage is not severe, but when massed
“You ALWAYS out of matches, boss."
in plantations infestation reaches alarm-
ing proportions. Incidentally, in spite
of the suggested lack of interest in the
timber, royalties for red cedar are among
the highest charged for any species.
Surely this reflects a strong demand for
this handsome cabinetwood.
* * * *
“Mingorah”: It may interest “Old-
timer,” Little Curl, Big Fleming and the
rest to know that Prill Park was sold in
1946 and a* grandson of the old boss is
trying to make a station out of Gulthul,
in “0.-t’s” time a waste of mallee and
hopbush between Euston and Prungle.
Young Harry Leslie says his granddad
would have thrown a seven to see a Gul-
thul clip average 10s. a pound, but that’s
what it’s been doing, and with that and
good seasons “0.-t.” would hardly recog-
nise Gulthul. He’d recognise Euston,
though, because it doesn’t seem to have
had a gallon of paint since 1920, and
there are still plenty of Leslies and Mc-
Gintys about. There’s still a Shailer in
the Euston pub, but Medley’s Royal now
belongs to Ansett’s. As for Euston
station, old Andy Kilpatrick would rush
for a hoe or an injunction or something
if he could see the tomatoes and peas
growing round the old woolshed, where
New Australians are making more from
20 acres than “AJ.” ever did from
20,000. The old boss, when he heard, 40
years ago, of the conversion of part of
Tapalin into a vineyard, snorted “Warra-
blurryell! Can’t even ride down the river
without runnin’ into flamin’ gardeners!”
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Burindi’s” Epsom-
salt well (B. 3/6/’53) has a duplicate in
a small well about 40 miles south of
Port Hedland (W.A.); but, though the
water has a disastrous effect on humans,
sheep seek it apparently as a medicine.
I could take “B.” to several places where
there might be a dozen underground
streams within 200 acres, and half will
be salt and the rest fresh. In Belmont,
within a radius of a quarter of a mile,
there are three dams, two clayholes and
four wells. Two of the dams, one clay-
hole and two wells are fresh, the others
are completely salt. They’re all
below the level of the Swan River, and
all within cooee of it. In the same area
there are a dozen different types of soil.
The topsoil ranges from sand to heavy
loam, the subsoil from clay to gravel.
A chap I worked for sank a test bore and
got salt-water at 10ft. He put his dam
down a few yards away and got the best
freshwater supply in the district!
* * * *
“Clonk”; Adelaide’s worst-introduced
vegetable-pest is the soursob, brought to
S.A. as a plant for garden-borders. Now
the only man to bless it is the beekeeper,
for whom it supplies an abundance of
early-spring pollen. But all introduced
plants and grasses aren’t pests. Subter-
ranean-clover is only an insignificant
roadside weed in its home around the
Mediterranean, but just look at what it’s
done for southern Australia. Long ago a
worn-out imported camel-saddle was
tossed on to a rubbish-dump on a sheep-
station in the north of S.A. It had been
stuffed with grass, and soon the sur-
rounding ground was covered with a fine,
hardy grass which sheep ate eagerly. Odd
plants managed to set seed, and dust-
storms carried this very fine seed south.
That’s how the Mallee in S.A. got its best
and hardiest fodder, Shizmus barbatus,
or Mediterranean-grass.
***♦■•
“Sack”: Possums never drink much,
anyway (B, 20/5/’53). I kept a silver-
grey as a pet for 11 years, and found that
even in the hottest weather he wouldn’t
drink more than a cupful of water a
week. A tame rabbit will drink even
less, if he is fed on nothing but lush,
green vegetation. Guinea-pigs never
drink at all! I’ve often wondered
whether, if circumstances forced the little
animals to live on dry foods only, they
would drink then or merely die. But
we have a non-drinker in our native
fauna—the abo., anyway, was convinced
on that point: “koala” means “does not
drink.”
• * ♦ ♦
“Macquarie”; “I was about twelve at
the time,” Bert said, “and dingoes were
playing hell with the few sheep we had.
The old man decided that we’d keep
watch every night—sentry-go kind
of thing. When my night came he went
out with me to the paddock, helped me
bunch ’em up, then left me sitting in
front of a big fire. After a couple of
hours I wasn’t feeling too brave, but
when I saw a pair of greenish-looking
lights staring at me from the darkness
I was scared stiff. I got the feeling
I wanted to
look be-
hind ; after
a lot of
fighting
against it, I
did. 'And
there was
another
pair! After
that they seemed to be everywhere I
looked. Suddenly a ‘mad-woman owl’
screeched. That finished me —my pony’s
hooves nearly caught fire on the way
home. The old man was waiting at the
door when I jerked the pony to a stop.
He had his horse already saddled —he’d
heard me coming from a couple of miles
back. ‘What’s up? What’s up?’ he
asked wildly. I told him. He said ‘lt’ll
take me two minutes to get the stock-
whip ; if I catch up with you on the way
back I’ll chop chunks’ But by then
I was racing back to the dingoes.”
THE LITTLE HUT
Grey walls and blue roof
I made to my little hut — *
Colors chosen that
Like a dropped thread mar not
The, evening warp and woof,
Blessed tapestry of light.
And, going in, I go to night
And day goes with me there.
Earth and all things living are
So close and keeping me from care,
That the rude lamp which I must light
Shines like a gentle star.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


1
at#
iV>
m
■
2£i3Si
hospital M
> pw * oJn*S£ ->
PSO/M
■asfe
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
10 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
The Past and the Future
\
i
m
§ '
«•»«
£a*»SJ j
ONE OF
BRISBANE’S LANDMARKS.
The Observatory, Wickham
Terrace, from a print of 1830.
Built in 1829 as a corn mill,
it provides to-day an interest-
ing link with the early days.
W..
e, too, have stood the test
of time and we look forward to
assisting with the future develop-
ment of Australia.
Still owned and controlled by
Australians, we provide to-day, as
we have from 1834, an efficient
banking service.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Year’s Results
Share prices on Australian
’Changes have remained fairly
firm for several weeks. The wool
market, too, after a setback a
fortnight ago, has recovered most
of the ground it lost. The year
has closed on a rather confident
note, though turnovers on the
Stock Exchanges have been at a
low level, and some brokers are
finding the going tough indeed.
Most businesses will now be
taking stock and preparing
accounts for 1952-53. Many
have kept the volume of these
stocks as low as possible for two
principal reasons firstly to
reduce bank overdrafts and other
indebtedness, and, secondly, to
see what happens to rates of
sales tax in the next Budget.
This policy of restricting stock-
purchases has resulted in hand-
to-mouth buying from manufac-
turers, and it has had a consider-
able effect on results for the
financial year just closed.
On output figures alone the
woollen and worsted industries
would appear to have had a
worse year than in 1951-52. But
trading results should be better,
in view of the fact that stock-
depreciation problems are mostly
over. In some cases raw-wool
value of stock should have
appreciated over the past 12
months.
Patons and Baldwins was a
case in point. The co.’s profit of
£332,055 included some write-
back of stock - depreciation
allowed for at the previous
balance. Other concerns may
not have had so much up their
sleeve. On production figures,
the past term should pan out
best for the worsted section of
the woollen-textile industry. The
woollen section —making blankets
and the like—had a leaner time.
Blanket output dqring the past
12 months has been at a lower
level even than in 1938-39.
Cotton-textile output has recently
fallen sharply. Knitting-mill
production has kept fairly
steady. The rayon-weaving
industry appears to have had
a record year, and hosiery mills
have never been busier. Import-
restrictions seem to have favored
manufacturers of women’s
hosiery.
Many food lines have slumped
in sales. Jam and ice-cream
have had a comparatively bad
year. On the other hand, outputs
of cigarettes and tobacco have
notched new records, and beer-
production has never been
exceeded.
Output of floor-coverings has
been at a high level, and will
probably exceed the record pro-
duction achieved in 1948-49.
There has been a drop, on the
other hand, in the demand for
baths and stoves ; production of
refrigerators, by contrast, has
been recovering well, and figures
for the first quarter of 1953 were
much better than the results for
the same period of the previous
year.
Cement output has been a
record, while output of fibre and
bricks has been quite steady, not-
withstanding some slackness
reported in the building-trade.
The paint industry has not been
so busy. The outturn of pig-
iron and steel from Newcastle
and Port Kembla has touched
full plant-capacity for the first
time.
The most disturbing feature
of the Australian economy
remains the high level of costs.
The 40-hour week has a
deadly effect, and, even though
wage-earners are doing a fairer
thing than was the case two years
ago, the effective working week
is still perhaps only 35 to 36
hours. In the N.S.W. rural
industries, too, the working week
has been reduced to 44 hours at
a time when the fall in world
prices for land products is about
to create a serious problem for
cur export industries.
Industry after industry in Aus-
tralia is being priced out of the
world markets. It is obviously
impossible for an Australian
industry working 40 hours a
week to compete with a, British
firm, with greater “know-how”
and a greater overall production,
working 44 hours. Even in such
items as leather belting Aus-
tralian exporters are finding
British competition overwhelm-
ing.
The Bulletin repeats what it
has said many times —in Aus-
tralia there is not enough pro-
duction, not enough profit, not
enough saving, not enough
investment. Though taxation of
industry must eventually be
reduced, the first and most
essential thing is to get wage-
earners doing a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay. Production
per man per working week is the
final test of ability to compete
in the markets of the world. No
exchange manipulation will for
long conceal this hard fact.
The Search for Oil
From R. Richardson, chair-
man of Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co., Sydney:
Oil-geologist L. Owen, in B.
17/6/ ’53, says that the drilling rig
used on the Papuan-Apinaipi area at
the end of 1939 never attained its
designed depth of 600 ft., “although
I was always ready to drill much
deeper.” It was, in fact, designed to
drill to 3000 ft. or even deeper.
The No. 1 scout-bore put down
at Oiapu in 1938 (beginning in July
and finishing in November) reached a
depth of 1124 ft., with shows of gas at
222 ft., 500 ft., 850 ft. and 1050 ft., and
oil at 800 ft. and 1050 ft. The second
bore, put into the volcanic neck in
the next month, reached only 523 ft.,
penetrating volcanic rock the entire
way.
The third, commenced in February
of the following year, was halted at
892 ft. in the volcanic rock with oil
reported from 400 ft. and 760 ft. The
fourth, drilled still with the same
“inadequate rig,” went to 1044f!t.
with frequent oil and gas shows, but
did not enter the volcanics.
As to aerial mapping, the procedure
provides such a wealth of individual
phbtographs that there is very little
chance of error despite any variation
from the level ol the aircraft. Besides,
difficulty of yaw, pitch or roll are
readily apparent in the setting-up
of the mosaic.
Of these particular photos a dif-
ferent account was given by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources and the
U.S. Richfield Oil Company, when
they were used by officers of these
bodies from 1945 to 1948. The maps
of the company were then checked
with the photos, with resultant credit
to the P.A.P. and the airline
which produced them.
Mr. Owen suggests that 10,000 ft.
is the minimum depth at which oil
is likely to be found in Papua. The
oilfields producing in Java, Sumatra,
Borneo and Dutch New Guinea at
from 60ft. to 4000 ft. immediately
expose this as a fallacy. It cannot
be assumed that because one com-
pany is unsuccessful at a depth of
two and a half miles other com-
panies will necessarily be unsuccessful
at lesser depths. Oil is where it is
found —and only the drill can tell
this for certain.
Incidentally, only a small propor-
tion of the world’s oilfields have been
“brought in” with geophysical or
seismographic assistance. Geophysical
and other like surveys are known
to be dependent on the forces of
so many unknown factors in an area
such as Papua that they have so far
proved of no avail.
It is also known, in the light of
most modern world authoritative
opinion, that geophysical and seismo-
graphical surveys have failed to
prove, in some instances, that oil
existed in structures when actually
oil was being produced from them.
It is the desire of this purely Aus-
tralian company to follow its own
course to develop that which the co.
has already proved to exist; and to
seek by drilling the oil reasonably
and confidently expected to be within
the Jokea-Apinaipi dome. This was
the purpose for which the company
was formed in 1936.
From K. Washington Gray,
Melbourne:
The writer of the article entitled
“The Search for Oil in Papua” in
your issue of June 3 discusses the
relative oil prospects in different parts
of that country. Opinions will natur-
ally differ on such matters, in Papua
as in any other part of the world:
moreover, the conclusions drawn from
the facts known at any one stage
in exploration work necessarily change
as new facts accumulate. One of
. the statements included in that article,
however, cannot be allowed to pass
uncorrected. It is this:
At this juncture Anglo-Persian
received word that oil had been
struck in their new field in
Sarawak, and this news resulted
in the withdrawal of the British
Government from the New
Guinea Agreement. Its object,
after all, had been to provide
the Admiralty with supplies of
oil on British Territory adjacent
to the Pacific. Immediately—
that is to say within the same
week —Anglo-Persian moved away
from the Apinaipi area to Popo.
This statement is without founda-
tion. The Anglo-Iranian (formerly
Anglo-Persian) Oil Company has
never discovered or operated any oil-
field in Sarawak or any other part
of Borneo. The only known oilfield
in Sarawak is the Miri field, which
was discovered in 1911 —by another
company—and this discovery ob-
viously had nothing whatever to do
with the selection of Popo as the site
for a test-well in Papua in 1921.
Best Balance-sheet
The Australian Institute of
Management, Sydney division,
has placed first the balance-sheet
and report issued by Leroy
Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), in its annual competi-
tion, and has made its award
accordingly.
Awards are made for
“achievement in company-
reporting to shareholders,
employees and the community.”
Of special distinction were the
reports of Ampol, Industrial
Engineering, Jantzen, Larke
Hoskins and Tutt Bryant.
In'his address at the institute’s
annual dinner Mr. N. B. Rydge
urged Governments to “Mother
the goose that lays the golden
eggs,” and he made the startling
point that out of £lOO earned in
profit by a company it was pos-
sible for a shareholder, by
reason of taxation, to get less
than £lO of it. He also made
another statistical point—over
1,700,000 of Australia’s present
population are under nine years
of age.
Dollar Deficit
Though Australia had an
overall favorable trade
balance of £2BB million for
the 10 months to April 30
(increasing to £319 million by
May 31), its dollar deficit was
£35.7 million, compared with
£27.8 million for the corres-
ponding 10 months of 1951-
52. Favorable balance within
the sterling area was £156
million, outside the sterling
area (excluding dollar area)
£l6B million. Whilst relaxa-
tion of import-restrictions in
respect of non - dollar
countries seems likely, the 10
months’ figures don’t encour-
age hopes of greater freedom
in trade with the U.S.A.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy
OSUIMVAN x /
- PIXUQ jV
THADE^ HAH*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watsdn, Ferguson ft Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants.
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS i : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. USHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
INSURANCE ~for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong .)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch; 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager
é
BLYTH
S. AUST.
☆
For further details
concerning imme-
diate delivery of
the Model U con-
sult your nearest
distributor.
D ear Sirs, We thought you would be interested to hear from us.
We purchased our first Model U Allis Chalmers in May, 1940,
and we were so thrilled with its economy and capability we
bought another on 1947, and our third in 1950.
These tractors have worked all types of soils from heavy red
loam to drifting sand hills and have amazed farmers in this
district for their power and reliability.
We pull an 8-furrow Mouldboard, 14-disc Plough, 20-row Com-
bine, 18-tyne Cultivator, 8 or 10 Harrows and 12 ft. Header.
On these implements we average \\ gallons per hour during the
year’s work.
We can thoroughly recommend the Model U Allis Chalmers tractor
as THE medium-size agricultural tractor on the market to-day.
(Signed) J. L. PRATT & SONS.
AC
CHALMERS
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush.
VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John
Shearer & Sons Limited,' Kilkenny. W. AUST:: Westralian Farmers Co-operative
Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND; Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart. NEW GUINEA: Tutt-Bryant
Ltd., Port Moresby.
11/88.41
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Exchange-control and Tariffs
Trade, money and votes are
so wrapped up together that
exchange and import control in
N.Z. can’t be divorced from
politics, the more so because
there’s a general election little
more than a year off, when the
Holland Government, then five
years old, will hope to be sent
back for another three years
All things considered, there’s no
practical alternative to the
present system of exchange
rationing under the vigilant eye
of the Reserve Bank until the
end of 1954, or perhaps early
1955, as exchange arrangements
must be planned months ahead.
This system had its origin in
April, 1952, when the R.B. was
ordered to step in when N.Z.’s
overseas reserves were fast ebb-
ing away. For months N.Z. was
scratching for funds to meet
debts contracted by importers in
the big spending-spree, and it
was not until the last quarter of
the year that the tide definitely
turned. Since then funds have
been building up steadily,
until today N.Z. is holding well
over £lOO million.
Many Maorilanders, overlook-
ing the seasonal ebb and flow of
their trade, think the position is
now so sound that the controls
could be safely taken off; but
there’s likely to be a fairly steep
rundown in the latter part of the
year as imports flow in at a faster
rate during the lull in exports.
Allowing for this, the reserves
aren’t much larger than a
country with overseas payments
approaching £250 million
annually (Government and
private) needs to operate com-
fortably.
When the Reserve Bank took
hold of the reins it aroused a
good deal of criticism by choos-
ing 1950 as a base year for
exchange-rationing, and there’s
still dissatisfaction over this.
In the end, of course, the
banks couldn’t allocate more
N.Z earned, and,
over the base year. To show the
trend of private imports (actual
and estimated) over five years,
here are the figures: ’5O £140.3
million, ’5l £201.7 million, ’52
£2OO million, ’53 £l7O million,
’54 £175 million.
Funds are rationed partly on
basic licences, which leave
importers free to spend on any
goods not under import ban, and
the balance on special licences, !
for essential goods only. Last
year, as a starting-point, basic
allocations were 80 p.c. of 1950
imports, or £ll2 million, but as
the year advanced things went
so well that the R.B. let out an
extra £2O-£3O million as it found
it could keep a safe margin with-
out making things unnecessarily
tough. r
Importers of finished goods
are caustic about the R.B.’s
niggardliness in budgeting for
next year, and abuse it for
dictating how the funds are to
be spent. But whatever grounds
there are for discontent the com-
plaints are not shared by manu-
facturers, who are large buyers
of materials and plant, so the
R.B. is far from being without
friends.
Local industry has developed
a faith in exchange-control
similar to its former trust in
quantitative import-licensing as
practised by the Socialists. Here,
it feels, is an umbrella under
which enterprise can shelter with-
out fear of what might happen
next day; here is protection, by
comparison with which tariffs
appear a primitive defence. This
sectional attitude is all the
stronger in view of recent experi-
ence. When manufacturers
glance back at what happened
last year they realise how weak
and defenceless they were behind
the tariff wail. Just what is going
to be done about this wall is not
known yet, for tariff revision is
making such slow headway that
it will be years before the Board
of Trade completes the job.
Still, it isn’t the function of a
reserve bank to stand guard
indefinitely behind a shaky
tariff. The present control of
exchange was enforced to tide
N.Z. over an emergency. Once
payments are more or less in
balance again, the banks should
be able to switch over to some-
thing permanent, the most
logical follow-up being a forward
exchange system, linked with
credit-regulation. In the past,
! import controls have been too
1 readily accepted as protection for
i manufacturers and for an arti-
! ficial standard of living. Maori-
I land has to realise that inflation
| is losing ground in a more com-
-1 petitive world.
Production and Wages
Since staple items of diet, like
eggs, potatoes, fruit, fish and all
better grades of meat, moved
into the luxury price-group, the
inflated cost-of-living has been
showing up a weakness in what
was until lately the strongest
sector of New Zealand’s
economy. This is proof that even
a predominantly food-producing
country cannot indefinitely
pursue artificially high standards
in its manufacturing industries
and the skilled trades without
affecting food prices. But for
fat subsidies butter, milk, bread
and a few other essentials would
be in the luxury class, too ; but
the increase for these lines is
being carried meanwhile by tax-
payers.
After a fairly long time-lag
the cost-structure in the primary
industries is now reacting in a
marked degree to the effects of
the 40-hour week and a reduced
standard of production in the
secondary industries, and it is
clear that two different standards
of employment cannot be main-
tained permanently. As the
years go by the farmers are grow-
ing more prosperous, and the
workers in the towns are finding
that a larger proportion of the
weekly pay is swallowed up in
food, housing and the ordinary
comforts of life. Seeing that
farmers work anything up to 60
or more hours weekly, most of
them for seven days a week,
probably they’re getting no more
than they earn; but there’s an
insistent demand by unionists for
a larger share of the national
income, regardless of the differ-
ence in production-performance
in town and country. This has
been the basis of a claim for a
new Arbitration Court general
order to raise wages.
As the rising cost-of-living is
full of political dangers, the Gov-
ernment has gone to some
lengths in efforts to convince
Maoriland workers that they’re
getting more today for their
higher outlay on food and other
things, including beer, tobacco
and the totalisator. In some
quarters a good deal of play has
been made of “beer and bets,”
which are doubtful evidence of
a rise in the standard of living,
but a 40 p.c. increase in the con-
sumption of butterfat looks
impressive. As butter is still
pegged at the low price of Is. Bd.
a pound, while the subsidy
absorbs rising production costs
year by year, it’s not surprising
that Maorilanders are the largest
butter consumers in the world.
Margarine, a strong competitor
in other countries, has no chance
of capturing the butter market
in N.Z.
Another argument used to
persuade workers that they’re
better off than they realise is the
trend of official wage and
cost-of-living indices, which
show that wages have been
slightly more than holding their
own. The loophole is that the
c. 0.1. index doesn’t include every-
thing and has lagged behind
changing tastes and the standard
of Jiving.
Shrewd observers have been
saying for years that the 40-
hour, five-day week, judged by
results in N.Z., has been a
failure, and that what the
country needs is increased all-
round efficiency, with greater
hourly output. In short, Maori-
landers must work harder if they
want to retain their standards on
the 40-hour limit; the alternative
is to work longer.
With morning- and aftemoon-
tea breaks and time for getting
on and off the job deducted, the
time worked wouldn’t average
35 hours weekly, and the pace
in many directions is slower than
before the war. Food-production
for the local market wheat,
potatoes, vegetables and fruit —
hasn’t kept pace with the rise in
population.
N.Z. Forest Wealth
On the threshold of the
greatest industrial develop-
ment ever in N.Z., cos. in the
timber, pulp and paper field
are planning for production-
targets, to be reached in about
three years, by felling and
processing pine and other
exotic trees: sawn timber,
350 million board-feet; card-
board, 30,000 tons; wall-
board, 20,000 tons; kraft-
paper, 25,000 tons; kraft-
pulp, 90,000 tons; newsprint,
75,000 tons. The three lead-
ing cos. will be N.Z. Forest
Products, now close to com-
pletion of its big Kinleith de-
i velopment; Tasman Pulp and
[Paper, which has little more
i than two years to build and
j equip its pulp and newsprint-
I mills at Kawerau, with a rail-
j link to the Murupara State
i pine-forest; and Whakatane
| Board Mills, Ltd. There will
\ be a lot of stuff to sell when
| the three get going, and N.Z
) will need big overseas outlets
Car-hungry
New Zealand .must be the!
most car-hungry country in|
the world. Any hint that|
more cars are likely to come}
in is enough to start a rush of J
orders for new models, and S
dealers have thousands on
waiting-lists. It’s the same
with commercial vehicles.
In May heads of the motor-
trade suggested New Zea-
landers might consider put-
ting down the names of their
unborn children for new
cars to arrive in the dim and
distant future. One said car-
and truck-owners could look
forward to replacing their
old models once in every 19
years. Yet N.Z. imported
50,000 motor-vehicles last
year and 37,000 the year be-
!fore, and expects to get
another 20,000 this year—
nearly 110,000 in three years,
| for a population of a couple
| of million.


sPSi
w
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE uses ★ 'LocaS knowledge" to benefit
PfdURIEStATE
THERE is one exclusive feature of Union Trustee Company
service that can be of direct benefit to your estate. This is
the ‘local knowledge” gained by having offices in three capital
cities. Each office has its Individual Board of Directors, each
its own highly skilled staff of experts. Thus, whether an
estate has interests in more than one State, or is concentrated
in a single area, the Company is ideally equipped to act as
Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
In appointing Union Trustee as your Executor you are assured
of continuity of service—and charges are exceedingly moderate
for the services rendered.
A senior officer of the Company will gladly explain in detail
the wide variety of services it performs.
Call or write for your copy of the booklet, “Important Facts”
—which will be forwarded post free.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 188 S
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UTI2D
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends ~
Pref. To Re— Re —
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1945.. 75,931 16,374 10 p.c. = 54,037 5,520 183,099
1946.. 87,809 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 3,889 186,988
Profit sale property, £1250.. .. 188,238
“Contingencies and depreciation re-
serve” appears, £50,000 .. .. 238.238
1947.. 227 16,374 12* p.c.= 67,546 18,307 256,545
1948.. 123.910 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 39,990 296,535
Profit sale assets, £2055 .. .. 298,590
1949.. 547 16,374 13f p.c.= 74,801 45,872 344,462
From inner reserves, £30,000 .. 374,462
Profit sale assets, £2342 .. .. 376,804
1950.. 354 16,374 185 p.c. = 74,301 37,679 414,483
Profit sale assets, £505 .. .. 414,989
1951.. 16.374 15 p.c. = 81,056 54,782 469,771
1952- 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 52,037 521,808
1953- 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 40,782 562,590
The div. was lowered from 12y p.c, to
10 p.c. not because insufficient was earned
to pay the higher rate but because the
board considered it prudent to render the
financial structure more flexible and thus
strengthen the co.’s bargaining and
general trading position in a market
which might become very fluid in the
not-too-distant future.
The 12 months covered by the latest
accounts were largely a period of re-
adjustment to changing conditions. The
year began with a commodity headache
in the form of a swollen inventory, fol-
lowing the import flood, which was
stemmed by legislative restrictions.
These restrictions retarded the flow of
goods from abroad and had a welcome
and steadying effect upon the level of
business activity and retail prices gener-
ally. However, consumer credit tight-
ened, and in the scramble for liquidity
there was some price-cutting, while wage
and other costs remained buoyant. At
the same time buyers held off waiting
for further price-falls, especially during
the first half of the term.
The management countered with a
policy of stock-reduction, lightening of
the outside debt, simplification of selling
methods, further brightening of the store
and a close overhaul of controllable out-
goings.
The drop in turnover (amount
not stated), sharpening of competition
and squeeze of profit-margins were re-
flected in a contraction of £216,779 in
gross profit, which was partly offset by
a reduction of £192,015 in exes.—they
include £22,196 (down £9075) for de-
preciation, something for taxation, etc.,
and £lO,OOO (same as previous year) sent
to the staff fund:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross
profit.. £819,332 £1,094,899 £1,246,832 £1,030,053
Exes. .. 690,978 942,687 1,110,875 918,860
Net ..£128,354 £152,212 £135,957 £111,193
The £111,193 (down £24,764) of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div. (£16,374)
and show 17.5 p.c.' on the £540,367 of
ord. capital as against 22.1, 25.1, 20.7,
22.2 and 19.9 p.c. back to 1948. After
paying the 10 p.c. div. £40,782 (36.6 p.c.)
of the year’s net earnings was ploughed
back into the business, lifting the lay-
by to £562,590.
Stocks, which appear “as certified less
reserve,” were reduced by £461,132 and
book-debts by £14,969. The funds which
thus became available were used mainly
to wipe out the overdraft (£324,004 at
the previous balance) and add £30,000 to
plant, fixtures, etc. Plant, etc., in the
books at only £BO,OOO, includes the
co.’s woollen and knitting mills, which
are worth a quarter of a million pounds,
or thereabouts:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. .. £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Overdraft .. .. 123,692 324,004
Sundry creditors* .. 235,413 285,545 356,793
Tax reserve .. .. 297,079 422,327 235,864
Pinal divs 55,470 41,960 35,206
Property .. .. 765,312 765,757 767,482
Plant, etc 53,000 50,000 80,000
Stocks 922,728 1,308,559 847,427
Book debts .. .. 203,379 234,262 219,298
Cash, etc. .. .. 50,275 50,335 89,520
* Includes internal provisions, etc. £81,403 (down
£4908) 1963.
When the books closed there was only
ss. 2d. (10s. 7d. at the previous balance)
of outside money (excluding tax reserve)
in the business for every £1 belonging to
shareholders.
Although the immediate outlook is
healthier than it was at the beginning
of last term, the economy is still
in a period of convalescence. The
import price-index continues to edge
downward, while the retail price-
index still moves upward, albeit at
a slower rate. The disparity is the
result of a top-heavy national costs
structure, which, unless soon adjusted,
will spell trouble all round. Stocks in
British and European warehouses are be-
ginning to pile up awaiting export
markets. Much therefore will depend
upon the policy followed in lifting im-
port restrictions. Meanwhile, employ-
ment remains at a high level, there is a
healthy export surplus, another good
season is in prospect, a little tax-relief
is promised, and the proposed Royal
visit during the second quarter of 1954
should give the retail trade a fillip.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.
rose from 355. 3d. a year ago to 38s. 6d.
on May 6, and then dropped to 365. 3d.
following publication of the accounts.
The return at 365. 3d. is 5.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at
20s. 4d. yield 5.9 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £5 os. lOd. prefs. and 40s. lOd. ords.
Edwards Dunlop and Co.,'Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078 377,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 .. .. 418,538
1946.. 39,500 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,904 415,442
Net addition reserves, £64,165 .. 479,607
1947.. 40,789 10 p.c. = 37,596 3,193 482,800
Share premiums, £109,030 .. .. 691,830
Unexplained addition, £13,000 .. 604,830
1948.. 48,100 10 p.c. = 39,163 8,937 613,767
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 713,767
Unexplained addition, £lOOO.. .. 714,767
1949.. 52,462 10 p.c. = 46,365 6,097 720,864
Profit sale of assets, £17,043 .. .. 737,907
1950.. 64,454 11J p.c. = 62,005 2,449 740,356
Unexplained addition, £199,438 .. 939,794
1951.. 75,492 12$ p.c. = 68,895 6,597 946,391
Share premiums, etc., £50,085 ~ 996,476
1952.. 84,229 12* p.c. = 72,020 12,209 1,008,685
1953.. 83,632 12* „ „ 75,145 8,487 1,017,172
The attractive features of this co.’s scrip
are the security it offers for both capital
and income, and prospects of future
benefits ; that is, so far as such things
can be assured in an unsecure world.
Also the management, which has grown
up in the business, has exhibited a pleas-
ing aptitude for adapting itself to
changes in the economic climate.
For such a combination the market
has always paid a good price,
with a correspondingly low return.
At 665. (625. a year ago) the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares give an immedi-
ate return of only 3.8 p.c. on a
I2i p.c. div. basis, or approximately
| p.c. less than can be had from Govern-
ment bonds at the moment. Net tangible
cover is visibly 535. lOd. The investor
at 665. who looks for, say, 5.6 p.c. on
his money counts on the div. going to
18f p.c. or other benefits, such as a one-
for-two bonus share-issue and mainten-
ance of the div. at 12y p.c.
The co. handles newsprint and other
papers, as well as wholesale stationery,
printers’ requisites and fancy-goods, etc.
It has Commonwealth-wide connections
and a subsidiary in London looks after
overseas buying. Last term there was a
“considerable” reduction in turnover
(amount not stated), due to import re-
strictions and trade recession. For the
year to March 31 last Australian imports
of paper and pulp totalled approximately
£24.3 million, or £56.3 million (56.8 p.c.)
less than for the preceding 12 months.
Also prices of imported newsprint and
other papers continued to fall throughout
1952, but steadied toward the close of
accounts. The cumulative effect was
large, the chairman says, and stocks—
heavy at the beginning of the term —
were written down by an unstated
amount to bring them into line with re-
placement cost. Part of the amount in-
volved was charged against the year’s
earnings and the balance (£40,000)
against an undisclosed stock reserve.
This reserve now stands at “a slightly
higher percentage of current stock value
than it did a year ago, and is ample for
any foreseeable contingency.”
For these and other reasons, includ-
ing the growth in operating costs, and
the fact that net expenditure on fixtures,
motor-vehicles, etc. (£28,168, down
£7203) was also charged against earn-
ings, the reduction of £597 in the year’s
declared profit was remarkably small.
The £83,632 of profit claimed was 13.9
p.c. on average capital as against 14.6,
13.7, 11.7, 11.3 and 11.2 p.c. back to
1948. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s - profit
was only 5.1 p.c. Maintenance of the
div. at 121 P-c. might be taken as a
hint that the cautious board is satisfied
that the worst of the co.’s troubles in
respect of both turnover and price re-
cessions have passed, for the present at
any rate.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect
the year’s difficult trading:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1958.
Paid capital.. £551,158 £551,158 £601,158 £601,158
Creditors, etc.* 511.067 840,529 871,508 321,303
Tax reserve . . 113,404 272,347 432,050 294,897
Final div. .. 20,668 27,558 18,786 18,788
Freeholds .. 107,354 159,313 177,685 178,598
Stocks . . 627,331 895,456 1,272,549 916,725
Debtors .. 611,303 907,972 1,198,584 896,540
Cash, bonds
and shares 590,666 675,242 283,419 261,453
* Including provisions, etc.
Stocks were reduced by £355,824 and
book-debts by £302,044, and the funds
thus made available were used to slash
£550,205 off the amount coming to
supdry creditors, etc., and to meet a net
reduction of £137,153 in the tax reserve.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,439,732) was £7524.
The co. is obviously well equipped to
take immediate advantage of any trad-
ing opportunity that offers.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd. (Adel.)
c— 1 -Dividends N
Ist 2nd 3rd Re-
Mar., Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c, p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1942 7,388 74 6 10 5,600 23,049
1943 8,294 7* 6 10 5,600 25,743
1944 9,704 7* 6 10 7,020 28,427
1945 19,213 74 6 10 8,700 88,940
1946 23,422 74 6 5 10 12,265 50,097
1 Consolidated Figures.
1947 24,310 7* 6 5 10 16,200 58,323
Share premiums, £45,000 .. .. 103,323
1948 52,675 7* 6 5 10 29,075 126,023
Share premiums, £90,000 .. .. 216,923
1949 99,667 7* 6 5 15 57,200 259,390
1950148,808 7* 6 5 15 79,700 328,498
Revaluation assets, £140,000 .. .. 468,498
1951 190,838 7* 6 5 15 79,700 579,636
Taxes, previous years, £5530 .. .. 574,106
1952 144.822 7* 6 5 15 79,700 639,228
Share premiums, £11,250 .. .. 650,478
1953 147,608 7$ 6 5 10 64,700 733,386
The surprising thing about the latest
accounts of this 21-year-old parent co.
and its seven manufacturing, servicing
and sales subsidiaries is that the group
was able to show £2786 more profit than
it did for the previous year, despite
adverse cross-currents. The organisation
is engaged in the production, distribu-
tion and sale of high-grade domestic and
commercial refrigeration units, electric
petrol-pumps, washing-machines and a
number of other domestic appliances,
etc. Its activities spread throughout the
Commonwealth, and it has put up con-
sistently good performances from the
start.
At the beginning of last term demand,
especially for refrigerators and other
domestic appliances, had lost some of
its former buoyancy —Australian produc-
tion of domestic refrigerators for the
12-months to March 31 last was over 24
p.c. below the previous year’s level —com-
petition sharpened, operating and other
costs continued to climb, but at a
slackening pace, and profit-margins
narrowed. Nevertheless, the co. was able
to substantially reduce stocks and work
in progress—they appear at cost or
market-value, whichever is the lower—
without mishap, lighten the outside debt
and show a profit of £147,608. It all
points to alert management and supports
the board’s claim that plant is modern,
the technical set-up flexible, and that
earnings are not too dependent upon
any one line.
The £147,608 of profit was written
after adding £74,691 (down £44,122)
to depreciation reserves and allowing
£176,000 (down £20,000) for taxation.
It was enough to pay the pref, divs.
(£12,200) and show a satisfactory
25.8 p.c. on average ord. capital
compared with 29.4, 39.7, 30.2, 29.1
and 18 p.c. back to 1948. Yet the
board lowered the div. from 15 p.c, to
10 p.c., leaving £82,908 (56.1 p.c.) of the
year’s net earnings to plough back into
the business. Reserves also benefited by
£11,250 of share-premiums, lifting the
lay-by to £733,386.
To finance further additions to free-
holds (up £52,689) and plant (up £62,664)
and provide more working capital—the
need for which had not arisen when the
books closed—9oo,ooo new ss. ords. were
issued at ss. 3d. each on Dec. 1 last; the
issue was underwritten by J. B. Were
and Son; —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. .. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ordinary .. .. 450,000 450,000 675,000
Overdraft .. .. 402,369
Creditors, etc 784,414 837,352 547.868
Tax provision . . .. 182,840 386,151 280,457
Final divs 39,850 39,850 36,100
Freeholds .. . . 329,119 386,545 389,234
Plant 225,812 240,689 303,353
Stocks* 1,200,557 2,028,340 1,439,840
Debtors 404,315 289,838 128,112
Cash .. . , .. 56,937 536 242,272
* Includes work in progress.
The year’s reduction in stocks was
£588,500 and in book-debts £161,726 —
reflexes of a tighter market. That en-
abled the debt to the bank (£402,369 at
March 31, 1952) to be liquidated and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
to be lightened by £289,484. The amount
of new share-capital gathered, and more
besides, was held in cash when the books
closed. Thus the whole financial struc-
ture is in much better equilibrium than
it was a year earlier, and the co, is in
a position to stimulate sales of its own
products by extension of consumer
credit.
The immediate outlook for the business
as a whole favors maintenance of a satis-
factory level of turnover, costs are be-
coming steadier, and a little relief from
the burden of taxation is promised.
Confident that the 10 p.c. div. will be
maintained, the market prices the f.-p. ss.
ords. at Bs. Bd. (9s. 9d. a year ago) to
return 5.8 p.c. The first, second and
third £1 prefs. at 235, 5d., 21s. and 18s.
4d. yield 6.4, 5.7 and 5.5 p.c. respec-
tively at last term’s rates of distribution.
The firsts carry a minimum 6 p.c. with
the right to advance with the ords. to
p.c. Net tangible cover is 365. 3d.
per £1 of paid capital—the prefs. enjoy
priority as to dividends and capital and
share in surplus assets.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
♦ # ♦ ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street. Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overhand and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
• We manufacture the “Curvilinear ” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
*oou> "f
««w
©l* *2®
UAPU
:n
l^v
TtO
W/
>W
?36-
WE'LL SHOW YOU!
Without obligation, contact your local Authorised Nuffield Dealer or
Nuffield Tractor Distributor; he’ll show you how the Nuffield Universal
Tractor will do a job for you . . . easily . . • under your conditions . . .
with your implements ... on your property. He’ll show you its versatility
. . . its 6-way power—swinging drawbar, belt pulley, power take-off and
3-point hydraulic power—all of which is standard equipment at no extra
cost. You’ll see its adjustable track front and rear . . . speedy 4-wheel to
3-wheel conversion ... its high road speeds ... its “non-slip” power weight
distribution ... 5 power-packed forward speeds ... its complete electrical
equipment . . . its independent turning brakes AND its great economy.
mb am 0 WSMHWR
6W»W«“
m
IT HAS EVERYTHING! IT DOES EVERYTHING!
The Nuffield Dealer will show you on YOUR property!
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia; KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NufFiELO (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. VICTORIA ?ARK. ZETLAND, NEW >OUTH WALE:
Moreton Central Sugar
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, serves, serves,
104 C C = 7 w)2 7158 ss lid
Taxation ° paid, £9581* ’..28.559
1947.. 16.601 6p.c. = 7,092 9,509 38,068
! :: ::?SSS
1950.. 10,094 6 „ ~7.355 2,739 54.620
SS:*.i?:iii 6 ’.’.S 9,801 59’, soi
* Taxes paid in respect to 1945 and 1946.
The co.’s mill at Nambour (Q.)
is a bit far south, and therefore
doesn’t handle the big tonnages
that mills further north do.
Still, shareholders’ prospects
look brighter than at any time
in the last 27 years, thanks partly
to a lift of 3500 tons raws in the
co.’s allotted mill peak, raising it
to 20,000 tons for the 1953 and
subsequent seasons, and partly
to a strengthening of selling-
nrices The lift in the mill neak
is part of the overall sugar-
expansion programme which
has been made possible by an
increased exnort auota under
the new suear met with the
S k which 8 hAf abou seven
AAnrc’ ir? run
y Canl crushed and raws pro-
duced at Nambour compare as
follows:
can® Raw
° Tons. d ’ tom!’
1944 .. .. 68.855 8,378
1947 ” " ill’S ie’,2l7
1948 i05’,477 i3.’024
SS ■ ••
1951 .. .. 70,597 8,519
1952 •• 119,405 . 14,229
Collapse of the figures in 1951
and their recovery in 1952 was
due mainly to seasonal condi-
tions. The overall average price
per
£42 12s. 3d. (up £8 4s. /d.) per
ton -
So, despite the continued rise
in costs, the co. was able to show
its biggest profit since 1925 at
£17,161, which included a wind-
fall of £2555 from the U.K. in
respect of past sugar transac-
tions in the export market. The
£17,161 was written after allow-
ing £lO,OOO (up £7000) for de-
preciation and an unstated
amount for taxation, etc. It was
equal to 14 p.c. on capital as
against 2.2, 8.2, 11.1 and 12.5
p.c. for the four preceding years.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c.,
money being wanted to help
finance mill expansion, etc.,
which has been progressing
steadily of recent years, and
now appears to be nearing com-
pletion.
Since 1948, £59,021 has been
added to the cost of fixed assets,
whose book-value has increased
by £27,439 over the same
period:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£> * £ £
Capital . . 122,656 122,656 122,656
Creditors, etc.* 116,206 43,291 146,037
Bank overdraft 8,563 106,002 82,187
Final dividends 7,355 7,359 7,360
Sugar mill, etc. 146,755 181,846 170,755
Stock .. .. 7.027 17,182 13,640
Debtors .. 152,778 122,593 230.788
Cash, etc. . . 2,840 7,687 2,857
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Last term’s net additions of
£102,746 to the creditors item,
etc., and of £108,195 to book-
debts are interrelated, being due
to the year’s bigger crushing.
When the books closed more-
or-less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities (including the div.) by
£111,701, an improvement of
£2511 over the twelvemonth.
There is nothing to suggest that
shareholders are likely to be
asked for more.
During the current term the
co. expects to put 160,000 tons
of cane through the rollers, sub-
ject, of course, to seasonal
developments, and the price of
raws has strengthened in both
the home and export markets.
It all points to further improve-
ment in net earnings.
For the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares,
which fell to 16s. in the market
during 1952, buyers recently
offered 225. after sales at 225. 9d.
The return at 225. 9d. would
be 5.3 p.c. on a 6 p.c, div. basis,
or 7 p.c. should the div. be
lifted to 8 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 295. 9d.
Pato-Nechi Merger
Subject to approval of share-
holders at an extraordinary-
general meeting in Vancouver
on June 29 (last Monday), and
consent of the court, Pato Con-
solidated Gold Dredging (paid
capital $3,200,000 in $1 shares)
and Nechi Consolidated Dredg-
ing (paid capital $5,000,000 in
$1 shares) are to amalgamate.
The declared aim is to bring
about “many operating and
other benefits to both cos.”
They are two gold-dredging
concerns in the Placer group,
and operate adjoining leases in
the Nechi River Valley,
Colombia (S. America): Pato
is a good and regular dividend-
payer. Nechi, which hasn’t
lived up to expectations, is to
be taken over by Pato for
$2,000,000 as from August 1,
1953. Over the three years to
December 31, 1952, Nechi’s
losses totalled $845,470, of
which $268,567 was in respect
of the last 12 months.
For the purpose of the deal,
Pato, which already holds
580,000 Nechi shares, is to buy
a further 2,000,000 Nechi shares,
now held by Placer, for
$BOO,OOO cash, making its total
holding 2,580,000 shares. These
shares are then to be sur-
rendered for cancellation (sub-
ject to court approval), thus
reducing Nechi’s paid capital to
$2,420,000 in $1 shares. The
holders of these shares are to
receive 302,500 f.-p. $1 Pato
shares, one for eight. In the
Sydney market at June 24
Pato’s shares were priced at 335.
and Nechi’s at 3s. 4d. each.
Investors could thus see a capi-
tal gain of 6£d. per share on
purchase of Nechi scrip, subject
to brokerage and stamp duty.
At December 31, 1952,
Nechi’s assets totalled
$4,687,820 net, made up as fol-
lows :
$ $
Fixed assets .. 4,579,582
Less depreciation 961,092
— 3,618,490
Current assets* .. 599,675
Less liabilities.. 139,258
-y 460,417
Development, etc.t /.. • • 608,913
Total 4,687,820
* Includes stocks and stores, $321,404.
f Intangibles.
Pato will thus acquire net
tangible assets with a book-value
of $4,078,907 for a total cost of
$1,682,500 in cash ($1,380,000)
and f.-p. shares ($302,500).
Nechi’s dredge was bought in
the U.S. in 1947 as a compara-
tively new second-hand machine,
was towed across the Caribbean
Sea and installed on the co.’s
leases at a cost of $2,165,779.
It has a digging-capacity of
approximately 5,000,000 c.y.
p.a. Last term it handled
4,539,000 c.y. for 11,5560 z. fine
gold, the average value per yard
being 8.91 cents with gold at
$35 an ounce. Working costs
were 10.10 cents a yard, leaving
a loss on working account of
$54,224. Most of the dirt
handled came from a low-grade
area between two high-grade
blocks, and through which the
dredge had to pass. After allow-
ing for administrative exes.,
taxes, etc. ($35,993) and depre-
ciation and depletion ($256,487),
less gold-bonus, etc. ($78,137),
the all-in net result was a loss
of $268,567.
Nechi’s gravel reserves at
December 31 last were:
Value
c.y. per c.y.
Close drilled .. 198,443,000 16.3 cents
Scout drilled .. 58,445,000 14.1 ~
Total .. .. 251,888,000 15.8 cents
Assuming that dredge recoveries
will finally be no more or no
less than bore values, and on the
basis of last term’s charges for
administration, taxation, depre-
ciation, etc., working costs will
need to be substantially reduced
if satisfactory profits are to be
won from this property.
Pato netted $2,488,254
($604,834) for the year to De-
cember 31, 1952, and paid 50
cents per share ($1,280,000 after
deducting tax) as against 25
cents for the previous year. A
total of 19,779,300 c.y. was
handled for 161,5020 z. fine
gold, the average value being
28.58 cents a yard with gold at
$35 an ounce. Working costs
amounted to 12.31 cents a yard.
When the books closed workable
reserves were:
Value
c.y. per c.y.
Close drilled . . 244,938,300 20.7 cents
Scout drilled .. 63,433,000 16.1 „
Total . . .. 308.371.300 19.7 cents
The deal will provide Placer
with extra working capital to
finance expansion of its oil,
tungsten and other interests ; it
will provide an immediate but
moderate return to private share-
holders on Nechi’s register;
and, provided the Nechi pro-
perty can be worked at even a
small profit, it will not retard
Pato’s net earnings. Pato will
have an additional $302,500 of
capital to feed.
Westralia’s production of the
yellow metal for the first five
months of 1953 increased by
48,0000 z., reaching 343,3630 z.
fine gold. Great Western Con-
solidated, whose 30,000-ton-a-
-month mill started up in
December last, contributed
20,0000 z. of the increase,
and bigger output from
both Central Norseman Gold
Corp. and Hill 50 also helped.
And these three cos. are ex-
pected to further quicken their
throughput as the year advances.
If current output of all
producers is maintained, the
State’s gold yield for 1953
will exceed 820,0000 z., a figure
not matched since 1942. Since
Hill 50 returned to the dividend
list in December last with 9d. a
share, it has paid Is. a share in
April and is to send out a further
Is. 6d. a share on July 31. The
co. also intends to split its 4s.
shares into Is. units.
# * ♦
Blue Spec, on the faraway
Pilbara field (W.A.), is in trouble
again. Managing-director F. A.
Close and another member of
the board, C. A. Macarthur,
who recently visited the mine,
found a “most unsatisfactory
state of affairs, due principally
to the unauthorised absence of
an official. Among other things,
plant and machinery urgently
needed overhaul. The two direc-
tors made such adjustments as
they could on the spot, and the
mine is producing. By turning
out a high-grade concentrate the
co. hopes to “get-by” until new
arrangements can be made. The
co. has a paid capital of £200,7 50
in f.-p. ss. shares, which recently
sold at 4s. 6d. each as against a
high of 11s. in 1952.


Women's letters
MEL'ECURNC
The Stawell Gallery was the setting for
the reception given for the Governor-
General, Field-Marshal Sir William Slim,
by the Government of Victoria. A fan-
fare played by R.A.A.F. buglers heralded
the arrival of the Governor-General, who
was received by the Acting-Premier, Mr.
Galvin, and Mrs. Galvin, and then
escorted to a dais set in the centre of
the Gallery. Tall candelabra and poin-
settias and green ferns were used in the
decorations. Then in procession passed
members of the State Cabinet with their
wives, members of the National Gallery
trustees, members\of the Opposition and
other guests, all of whom were presented
to his Excellency.
Mrs. Galvin’s gown of Coronation-
blue French crepe was embroidered with
toning sequins. Lady McConnan wore
a beautiful gown of ice-blue satin, the
bodice encrusted with moonlight sequins,
and with dusty-pink and ice-blue chiffon
forming the soft shoulder-straps. Lady
Hay’s brocades were white and silver.
Lady Snow’s attractive gown was of pale-
beige chiffon with an overdress of black
Chantilly lace. Mrs. T. T. Hollway chose
bouffant paarl-pink tulle. Lady Grim-
wade silver-grey Duchess satin.
The Services were well represented.
Chief of the General Staff, Lieut.-General
Sir Sydney Rowell, was with Lady
Rowell; the S«cond Naval Member,
Commodore D. H. Harries, and Mrs.
Harries were there, she wearing black
satin. The G.O.C. Southern Command,
Lieut.-General Sir Horace Robertson,
chatted to Colonel Peter Lord and Betty
Davidson, she in an ensemble of white
crepe. Sir Julius Bruche was accom-
panied by Lady Bruche, who wore a
full-skirted gown of black Chantilly lace.
Mrs. M. Sallman’s sweeping gown was
of deep-olive-green satin, the strapless
bodice massed with sequins and moon-
stones. Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh’s slim
frock of black French crepe had an un-
usual tucked bodice. Lady 1 Gullett was
accompanied by her son, Mr. J. Gullett,
M.H.R. Mrs. Allan Spowers, who was
with Colonel Spowers, wore gold Chan-
tilly lace over pale-apricot satin. Mrs.
Rupert Downes was in slim-fitting black
velvet; Mrs. A. A. Lord wore dewdrop-
trimmed hyacinth-blue crepe ; Mrs. David
Feldsman a full-skirted black crepe
gown; and Marian McPherson a frock
of pearl-pink embossed brocade.
* ☆ *
Mrs. Lort Smith and her committee
are jubilant at the result of the afternoon
fair held at the Toorak home of Dr.
Roland Wettenhall in aid of the Animal
Welfare League. Sale of goods on the
stalls, plus donations, netted over £lOOO.
Mrs. Lort Smith expresses her thanks to
all the generous country folk who sent
down goods which resulted in
well-stocked stalls.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sheila, only daughter of Brigadier and
Mrs. R. G. H. Irving, of Toorak, was a
lovely bride when she was married at
Scots Church, Collins-street, to Francis
William Ward Scott. Sheila, who chose
the day on which her parents celebrated
their wedding anniversary, wore a gown
of magnolia satin gleaming through with
palest pink. The skirt was given fullness
at the back with a box-pleat which fell
into a slight train. The bodice was
covered with a long-sleeved fitted jacket,
the scooped-out neckline filled in with
pearl- and crystal-encrusted bands com-
ing to aV in front. Her cream tulle veil,
held by a wreath of orange-blossoms, was
lent by Mrs. Peter Grimwade, and she
carried gardenias.
Four ’maids were in attendance; Plum
Rutherford, Morna Moffatt and two
four-year-old girls, Suzanne Grimwade
and Patricia Cox. The older girls wore
frocks of pearl-pink brocade woven with
a small floral design in lilac and pale gold.
The little girls were pretty in long frocks
of blush-pink organdie. All four had
half-circlets of pink organdie on their hair
and carried matching posies of organdie
flowers. The ’groom, who is the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. Francis Scott, of
North Balwyn, had E. W. Best as his
best man, and Marshall Addison was
groomsman. Reception was held at No. 9
Darling-street.
☆ ☆ *
Mr. Con Charlton, who has retired
from managing the A.B.C. in Victoria,
was, with Mrs. Charlton, guest-of-honor
at a late-afternoon party given by mem-
bers of the subscribers’ committee.
Through the courtesy of Miss Annie
Banks, the party was held at the Lyceum
Club, and president of the committee,
Mr. E. C. Rigby, and Mrs. Rigby re-
ceived the guests. David Gale, who is
secretary for the committee, assisted Mr.
and Mrs. Rigby. Among guests were
Sir Robert and Lady Knox, Mr. and
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, the acting-manager
of the A.8.C., David Feldsman, and Mrs.
Feldsman, and Mr. and Mrs, Frank
Menzies.
☆ * ☆
At the conference held by the Victorian
Baby Flealth Centres Association a
cheque for £l5OO, representing the pro-
ceeds of the Dolls Pageant held at
Myer’s, was handed over by Bruce
Leahy, chairman of the businessmen’s
committee of the Queen Elizabeth Baby
Health Centre, to Sir Leslie McConnan,
who presided.
A woman held in great affection
wherever she goes and in every function
for which she works —and they are many
—is Mrs. Leonard Buxton, president of
St. Vincent’s Hospital Auxiliaries and of
the Functions Committee for the St.
Vincent’s Casualty-ward Appeal. For
several years she was president of Sacre
Caeur Old Girls’ Association. A very
smart dresser, Mrs. Buxton spends her
time between her home at Armadale and
her seaside residence at Mt. Martha. She
has three daughters: Alison (Mrs. Ross
(Batten), Beverley (Mrs. John Teague )
and Carolyn. Mrs. Buxton has travelled
extensively, and while abroad has studied
hospital-management.
Margaret Saker’s bevy of mannequins
are still on the job working for the St.
Vincent Hospital Casualty Ward Appeal.
Recently, two of them, Phil Purvis, who
represents the Musicians’ Union, and
Rena Pope, the Shop Assistants’ Union,
in the Trades Union Quest, which is
being run for the appeal, held a highly
successful supper-dance at the Delphic.
The two girls not only received the
guests but also took part in the manne-
quin parade of glamorous fashions, the
work of clever Lesley Fischer. Phil chose
a black ninon ballerina frock and match-
ing style ; Rena was in a flame-red nylon
strapless ballerina frock. A gown of her
own design, of black Chantilly lace, was
worn by Lesley. Other mannequins
present were Gweneth Weber, wearing
red-and-gold-checked tie-silk; Greta
Dutch, whose choice was a sheath-frock
of black Duchesse satin ; and Marie Paul,
in black-spotted champagne-tinted satin
carrying green sequins and pearls.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade is convenor
of the decorations-committee for the
Navy League Ball to be held on July 9
at the Royale. Mrs. Arthur Laver heads
the committee. Decorations will feature
a yardarm flying the signal-flags of the
Navy League. The official table will
feature a cornucopia with fruit spilling
from it, and the small tables will have
blue ships filled with white flowers, whilst
flying from every ship will be a pennant
indicating the number of the table.
Tickets are 355. each and may be
obtained from Mrs. C. F. Green (U 9014),
Mrs. Norman Dodd (U 3344) and Mrs.
M. V. Mather (WA8589).
Sydney
Event of the week was the opening of
the opera season with “Carmen” at the
Tivoli on Wednesday night. It was also
the night of the train derailment, which
held up various members of the cast and
orchestra and gave the audience an extra
half-hour to look round at the furs and
diamonds and brocades worn by about
two-thirds of the first-nighters, Mrs, C.
T. Lorenz welcomed one and all with
Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker. Her dress
was ice-blue velvet set off by sulphur-
yellow gloves and a cattleya-orchid.
Also wearing a long-sleeved dress of
velvet was Mrs. Roger Dunlop, one of
Sydney’s most beautiful young matrons.
Her dress was white with a high neck
and a black belt pinned with a diamond
brooch. Mrs. Tony Pfeiffer’s cream
brocade dress with a green-crystal-
embroidered coat was effective, and Mrs.
Frank McDowell’s stole of white wool
threaded with silver combined warmth
with beauty. One saw most of the opera
devotees, including Madame Dora Scott,
Mr. and Mrs. Max Aronsten, Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Bunning, Dr. and Mrs. Tom
Bateman and Miss Margaret Gillespie.
Soprano Joan Hammond, who has
come back to Australia to tour for the
A.B.C., is distinguished both in person-
ality and achievement, tier appreciation
of those who helped her to go
abroad for study in 1936 is evident;
she has made several gestures to
show her gratitude. Earlier this
year she raised enough money at a
London recital for two scholarships for
Australians at the London Opera School,
and in 1949 she came here to raise
funds for sending a team of women
golfers to the British championships.
(Once N.S.W. champion herself, she still
plays off a handicap of four.) She makes
her home now about 30 miles from
London in an Elizabethan house near the
village of Egypt.
Miss Hammond has sung in opera at
Covent Garden, in U.S.A., Amsterdam,
Italy and Vienna. During the war she
volunteered for ambulance work arid in
her spare-time sang in crowded air-raid
shelters. In the Coronation Honors
she received an O.B.E. This is the third
time she has returned to Australia since
1936. She will sing in all the capital
cities, in Wollongong (N.S.W.) and Too-
woomba (Q.), remaining 14 weeks in all.
Photo by Angus McBean.
Banquets are usually grave and stately
functions, but the Coronation Banquet
organised by the Sports and Physical
Education Department of the Y.W.C.A.
was about as lively as 300 young girls
could make it. Each club had decorated
its table in a Coronation theme, not only
with dolls dressed as the Queen but with
such scenes as morning over Mt. Everest,
Derby Day and Trafalgar-square with
Nelson’s Column, flower-sellers and all.
The dolls used in the decorations were
later sent to various homes for children.
Miriam Lord, president of the Physical
Education Department, which has 1700
members, proposed the toast of the
Queen, and guest-speaker was Miss
Meysie Law, the new general-secretary
of “Y.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Cardboard cut-outs of dancing chil-
dren and a fullsize figure of the Pied
Piper seemed to beckon people down the
stairs to Prince’s on Wednesday last,
when the Pied Piper Ball was held in
aid of the Spastic Centre. Some lovely
dresses were seen at this ball, where there
were about 275 dancers. Lady Braddon,
the president, wore moonstone organza,
crystal-embroidered at the waistline, and
Mrs. R, F. Eagle’s primrose organdie had
a deep peplum appliqued with black
velvet flowers. Mrs. George Knight,
who seemed to be “the hostess with the
mostest at the ball,” wore blue satin
glinting and gleaming with silver em-
broidery. Noticed in the company were
Mr. Justice de Baun and Mrs. de Baun,
Mr. and Mrs. John Bray, Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Ross and Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Woollett.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the silliest fashion-fads to be
reported comes from America, and it
mostly concerns men. It seems that the
old-fashioned wire-wheels on motor-cars
have made what is called “a comeback,”
many 1953 models are showing them, but
if your wheels are the covered type you
may buy false wire-wheels to affix to
them. False spare-tyre covers are also
available in case you’ve been caught with
the recent type of car which streamlined
these away as unnecessary. And they say
women are slaves to fashion!
*' ☆ ☆
Welcome signs at the Town Hall during
the Joan Hammond recitals were the
radiators on the platform and all along
those austere passages. Only pity was
that they were not there when the
Vaughan Williams Antarctic Symphony
was played the week before. One hears
that several suggestible people got quite
bad colds that night.
* ☆ *
“Diamond Lil” stockings, the newest
American novelty, were worn to the Pied
Piper Ball by Mrs. F. H. Smith. Sent
to her by her author-sister Nora Wain
in New York, they sparkle diamente all
along the back-seams. By the way, the
Americans have introduced knee-length
nylons elasticised at the top for wear with
long dresses and designed to lengthen the
life of the stocking by cutting out sus-
pender-strain. Good idea—yes, no?
☆ ☆ ☆
Yellow seems to be coming back into
favor for evening-wear. Unlike blue or
pink, yellow and mauve fluctuate in
fashion, in some years disappearing alto-
gether, in others taking the centre of the
stage. Two of the prettiest yellow dresses
seen during the week were Mrs. Charles
Parsons’s brocade with the tulle skirt
she wore to the opening night of “Car-
men,” and the nylon net with the fluted
bodice and pale ribbon-velvet sash worn
by Mrs. Sylvia Quist to the Pied Piper
Ball.
☆ ☆ ☆
Are Sydney parties too dull? Reports
of a lavish “circus” party held in Paris
last week say that the smart and titled
frivollers did trapeze acts, jumped
through burning hoops, played the clown
and rode round the ring in the best bare-
back fashion, while the hoi-polloi could
watch their social leaders for £l5 if they
had dinner or £6 10s. for standing-room.
All for charity. Present was Elsa Max-
well, who will be recalled as chief party-
giver in America’s “mad” party era, when
her famous “Barnyard” party had New
York’s smart set screaming “pig-pig-hoo-
ee” in a hog-calling competition among
its attractions. Well, maybe it’s better
to be a bit dull.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cherrywood, Turramurra, was recently
bought by the Poliomyelitis Society as an
after-care residence for polio victims, as
there was no provision made for young
people between the age of 15 and 25,
their only alternative being to go to the
Old Men’s Home or the Home for In-
curables. To help raise funds for this
cause-the Roseville, Lindfield and Killara
branch of the Cherrywood Auxiliary
made its first public function an
American-tea at the Killara home of Mrs.
E. J. Paxton yesterday.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wouldn’t it be funny if one took some
advertisements quite literally? “Turn a
switch and cook a dinner,” says one, and
the simple-minded imagine that the duck
is trussed and stuffed -and buttered, the
vegetables washed and peeled and cut up,
the sauce and pastry made, the fruit
stewed, etc., merely by turning a switch.
Some soap-powder advertisements give
the impression that all one need do is
sprinkle the powder over the soiled
clothes, go out and come back later to
fresh, dry, clean folded clothes—which
would be a correct interpretation of an
advertisement that says “ ‘Soapso’ does all
the work for you.”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
AT T "Pisr p t.fWIS (Chairman). P. W RADFORD (Vice-Chairman)
STRUAN^ROBERTSON, NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Missing Friend
TO EDITH MAT PHILLIPS address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band WILLIAM DUDLEY PHILLIPS has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of five years’
separation there being no reasonable
likelihood of resumption of co-habitation
If you desire to defend * such proceed-
ings you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within Thirty clear” days from the
date of this publication In default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 19th day of June, 1953.
G. J. BOTLSON, Registrar.
We Have Pleasure In Announcing
"THE CORONATION OF HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II"
in 16mm sound and Bmm to be available
to you this month.
This film, a Movie Pak feature, captures the splendour and
historic tradition of the Coronation for you to re-live in your
own home and in your own time.
You will see “The Solemn Moment of Crowning” clearer
here than anywhere, the cheering crowds, our radiant young
Queen and her gallant husband and the colourful procession
through the transformed streets of London.
Films will he available in the following sizes:
16mm sound —2 reels—Boo feet £25 7 6
1 r eel -r-400 feet £l2 3 0
Bmm silent—2 reels—4oo feet £9 15 0
| reel 200 feet £4 1 7 6
Also available in the Royal Family Album Series in 400 foot 16mm
sound Movie Pahs are:
“ROYAL MOTHERS” “PRINCE CHARLES AT PLAY”
“ROYAL CHRISTENING” “BABY PRINCE CHARLES”
See your local Photographic Dealer,
SIXTEEN MILLIMETRE AUST. PTY. LTD.
49 Market Street, Sydney. (M 2231). Box 4778, G.P.O.
I wish to order feet of “
»♦' in mm. Enclosed find remittance
{or £ and kindly forward to:
| Name...
I Address.
.B.
..„..,.ii.,i.iii. l iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimillllliillllll[limilllllllllll!>llll{il)!llllil)lllllillll!mil{lll
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Erna Sack
Erna Sack, the Viennese
coloratura soprano who is sing-
ing under the Tait banner at
the Melbourne Town Hall, is
certainly an unusual singer.
When she sang to a packed house
Handel’s Largo and “My Mother
Bids Me Bind My Hair” by
Haydn, nobody was stirred, and
nobody was particularly
enamored of her Schubert. Her
tone was pure but singuarly art-
less. She sang more-or-less as
a child sings, without emotion,
or as a bird would, if a bird
I could sing.
When she sang Linda’s aria
from “Linda of Chamounix” by
Donizetti and struck high C and
went beyond it, however, the
crowd sat up.
Donizetti’s aria had obviously
been written for just such a
prima donna. It was sound
without sense, as in Brogi’s “Le
Lucciole,” in which her virtu-
osity was extended into making
a whisper hardly above the zero
of silence fill the whole hall. If
you shut your eyes you could
imagine that it was an instru-
ment rather than a voice you
were hearing, and it was the
same with a lullaby in which
bells were heard ringing—she
could make the bells live even
if she couldn’t make the baby.
Having picked up her peculiar
quality and liked it, the audience
demanded more, and encore fol-
lowed encore in which she ex-
ploited her capacity for vocal
mountain-climbing to the utmost
and added a little waltzing.
It was a rare and unusual
entertainment to which Gilbert
Hill contributed with some
unconventional accompanying.
Nobody had heard singing like
that before at the Town Hall,
and the traditional music-lovers,
judging it up from the past,
would probably condemn it and
say it wasn’t music ; but then,
nobody had seen batting like
Bradman’s before, and they said
it wasn’t batting. He made the
runs, however, and Madame
Sack certainly got the effects and
produced the response she
wanted.
♦fc ❖
Joan Hammond
At her Sydney recitals the
lyric soprano Joan Hammond
has been demonstrating to
delighted audiences the big
advance she has made during the
seven years since she last toured
Australia for the A.B.C. Miss
Hammond, clearly, is now at the
summit of her art.
Where in former years a tense-
ness and certain stiffness of
manner were apparent, she is
now completely relaxed on the
platform; as a consequence she
leans upon an easy serenity when
singing songs which contain
legato phrasing —as, for instance,
in Handel’s “Angels Ever Bright
and Fair” with which she began
her first recital. And, more
strikingly still, in a later concert,
in Franck’s “Panis Angelicus,”
beautifully sung.
In Massenet’s “Elegie” the
fervor was unmistakable, and
was a pointer to the deeper
emotional impact which the
singer is now capable of making
on songs which have high drama-
content, Especially is that true
of the operatic aria, which
remains Miss Hammond’s forte.
Her operatic arias have
included, besides the more
popular ones, those lesser known
but of considerable musical
worth: “Senza Mamma” from
Puccini’s “Sister Angelica,” the
Air de Chimene from “Le Cid”
and “Poveri Fieri” from Cilea’s
“Adriana Lecouvreur.” Her
singing of “Vissi D’arte” from
“Tosca” was magnificent, com-
pletely capturing the urgency and
passion in the doomed courte-
san’s appeal to Heaven.
Beethoven’s great scene and
aria, “Ah, Perfido,” as severe a
test as a soprano may set herself,
was, in the first section, de-
clamatory singing of very high
order ; and in the aria there was
deep and tender feeling allied to
the exquisitely-toned half-voice.
> *t* 4 *
National Opera
National Opera of Australia
opened its third Sydney season
at the Tivoli with “Carmen,”
following Bizet’s Spanish tragedy
two nights later with a comedy
set in the same city—Rossini’s
“Barber of Seville”—very good
choosing.
In the title-role was Florence
Taylor, and for one whose stage
experience had hitherto been
extremely limited she did sur-
prisingly well. Not only was her
strong contralto used with good
judgment throughout, but Miss
Taylor was able to capture much
of Carmen’s fiery recklessness
and lighthearted flirtatiousness.
As the gentle Micaela, Majorie
Conley was suitably timid, but
her soprano had too little carry-
ing-power. Betty Prentice’s
Frasquita and Jacqueline
Talbot’s Mercedes were lively
portrayals.
Ronald Dowd again proved
his ajl-round worth. His tenor,
always dependable, was especi-
ally effective in the “Flower
Song.”
Harold Williams was unim-
pressive as Escamillo —Alan
Light, relegated to a minor role,
\vas the obvious choice. He has
the youth to fit into the romantic
scheme, and the strongest bari-
tone in the company. Also, he
can act very well.
William Constable’s settings
were good without being out-
standing, except in the third act,
in which the smugglers’ camp was
artistically contrived with simple
means. The work of the ballet
was quite up to standard.
The “Barber of Seville,” pro-
duced by John Dudley, was an
improvement on “Carmen.” The
spirit of broad comedy of the
Beaumarchais story was well
maintained, and, in the final act,
became quite hilarious.
Gino Mattera appeared as
Count Almaviva. Always his
tenor gives the uneasy impres-
sion that there is strain at the
back of it. Too often some of
his softer notes had a blurred
quality. His disguise as the
drunken soldier in Act II was
not impressive ; but he sang the
“Ecco Ridente” well enough, and
combined to good effect with
Figaro in the two sparkling duets
which close the first act.
Geoffrey Chard made a good
impression as the Barber, and
capitally cast were Frank
Lisle as Dr. Bartolo and Alan
Light as the pious music-master
Basilic. Charmingly pert was
Betty Prentice’s Rosina, and her
resilient coloratura made light
work of the dainty “Una Voce
Poco Fa.”
Tiber Paul conducted with
vigor and effectiveness.
Artbursts
The current exhibition of the
Australian Art Society is rather
like the subdued murmur of
pleasant, conventional conversa-
tion with artists like John
Salvana, H. Edgecombe, John
Allcot, Dudley Parker, Rhys
Williams, Cliff Pier, Jean Derrin
and others all making mostly
placid reports on placid scenes.
The result is not unpleasant,
but nor is it very stimulating, so
that when Molly G. Johnson
(with her Meldrumish “Sydney
Bush” and “Bobbin Head”) and
V. Juradowitch (with “Still Life”
and “Mosman Street”) attempt
to dramatise light and color a
little, the results tend to separate
themselves from the general
tenor of the show.
Not that Miss Johnson or Mr.
Juradowitch shows the best in
the exhibition. That distinction
probably belongs to Garrett
Kingsley for his portrait
“Beverley”—nicely painted flesh
well set-off and dramatised with
red lips and a coiling sweep of
black hair. Kingsley’s “Reclining
Nude” is not so successful —the
figure is not reclining, but
appears to be suspended by some
mysterious means of levitation —
but his “Landscape” is a softly
agreeable impression.
♦t* ♦♦♦
Dioramas
A Coronation aftermath is the
dioramas, “Coronations Through
the Ages,” by Clothilde Highton,
at the Park Galleries in Mel-
bourne. A Queensland sculp-
tress, her little effigies of kings,
queens, lords, soldiers, peasants
and varlets aren’t the stiff lay-
figures one sees in most artificial
tableaux, and, being a painter,
her representations of abbeys,
churches, barges and land-
scapes have more artistic
quality.
Seen from a distance there is
a lifelikeness about the scene
where the Norman soldiers of
William the Conqueror, hearing
a great shout of welcome from
the Saxons, thought they were
assassinating their master and
started massacring them to some
purpose so that William had to
get off his new throne and go
out and stop them.
Another charming incident is
the crowning by stealth in a
Benedictine abbey of the Henry
the Third who subsequently re-
built Westminster Abbey, and
a pathetic one is Queen Caroline
battering on the closed doors of
the Abbey while her husband
is being crowned inside and the
crowd stands by laughing or
cheering.
Mrs. Highton made her re-
searches into Coronation history
in England.
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
Sidney Nolan is hanging pic-
tures of drought and soil-erosion
at the Peter Bray Gallery in
Melbourne. It is a peculiar thing
that now he is obsessed with the
problems of drought and soil-
erosion his pictures seem to be
very little better than when he
was obsessed with the alleged
personality of Ned Kelly. His
use of ripolin as a medium
hasn’t enabled him to get the
relationship between land and
sky any truer, made his hills look
any the less like galvanised-iron
or his burnt carcasses and skele-
tons less like inventories of dead
bones and more like Rem-
brandt’s “Flayed Ox.”
*** $ *>
The Belmont Group, showing
at the Victorian Artists’ Society,
are all pupils of Max Meldrum.
They include the late Ken Thom-
son, Alan Martin, Ida Meldrum,
Albert Rydge, Ron Crawford,
Peter Glass and Graeme Inson.
Some have individual faults,
some look too black and some
chalky, and some have more
quality than others. The criti-
cism of them is that they all look
alike and that any one of the
exhibitors could have painted all
the others’ pictures. True
enough, because they were all
taught by the same master. But
at least their pictures all look
more-or-less derivative of
Nature, and not of somebody
else’s pictures.
Talkies
“One Summer of Happiness”
This film, at Melbourne
Savoy, is the first Swedish pic-
ture to come to Melbourne. The
Swedes must have been working
quietly on their own, unconta-
minated with the Hollywood
virus, to produce such a lovely
picture. It was banned by
Canada and America, and the
fact that it was passed by the
British censor for the Corona-
tion adds another bit of lustre
to the new Elizabethan era.
It is a story of the sort of
young love that everybody
dreams of, but it is told so
simply and acted so easily and
naturally that the fact that it is
free love in which the lovers are
indulging and that it includes a
nude scene seem the most
natural things about it. It con-
cerns a student who graduates
from college and goes for a holi-
day to his uncle’s farm, where
he meets a neighbor’s daughter.
Their love for one another
gets the unbridled opposition of
the parents and the pastor, a
village tyrant, but the endorse-
ment of the young man’s uncle,
who allows them to use a barn
as a meeting-place. A farm-
hand, who has taken the priest’s
curse on the couple all too
literally, burns the barn down,
but the lovers escape and are on
their way home to the young
man’s parents on his motor-
cycle when a drunken motorist
overturns them and the girl dies.
UUa Jacobsson as the farm-
girl gives a beautifully enforced
performance, and Folke Sund-
quist a sincere, unsentimental
picture of the student.
♦+♦ ❖ *
“Where’s Charlie?”
Ray Bolger, probably the best
eccentric-dancer on the screen,
and who has a face that Nature
specifically designed for use by
a comedian, is the moving spirit
in this joyous, uproarious, well-
mounted and -dressed musical at
Sydney Mayfair.
When he is not Charlie, an
undergraduate at Oxford, he is
Charlie’s Aunt, a rich lady
from Brazil whose delayed
arrival forces her nephew, in
the interests of chaperonal
propriety, to impersonate her.
The natural scope for rich
comedy in this situation, wherein
the young man is compelled to
be himself and his forbidding
aunt alternately and at short
notice, is availed of to the full.
The lyrics and music by Frank
Loesser are snappy and tuneful,
and the dancing sequences are
exceptionally good. The whole
of the cast combine well in all
departments. One afternoon-
tea-pouring sequence by the
alleged aunt is a scream.
♦> ❖
“Beautiful But Dangerous”
Despite the fatuous title there
is reasonably good entertainment
in this comedy, which has to do
with the complications which
ensue when an heiress, descend-
ing incognito on a small town,
surreptitiously scatters largesse
in gratitude for what the town’s
doctor —whose bachelor son has
since taken over his practice —
did for her when she was a child.
Jean Simmons justifies the
front of the film’s title if not the
end, and Robert Mitchum is
only fair as the young medico
who likes fishing in calm as well
as troubled waters.
At Sydney Century.


all the Lrimminos
By Kylie
Tennant
WHEN Terry * Carson
drove up to the wet
blackened ruins of what
had been Jhe Trimtone
Button Factory, he wore an over-
coat over his pyjamas. The
managing-director, Jim Thomp-
son, had arrived five minutes
before, fully clothed but
scarcely in his right mind. He
was speaking savagely to the
night-watchman, who thought
he had shown great initiative
in ringing the heads of the firm
before he rang the fire-station.
In the dreary dawn, with wisps
of smoke and steam curling
round them, Jim drew Terry
aside.
“It’s as plain as the nose on
your face how it started.
Nobody’s allowed to smoke on
the premises, and one man—
just because he’s an inspector
for all the blinking buttons —
you know who I mean, Terry?
—thinks he’s above my orders.
The fire started in the produc-
tion department”—Terry was
production-manager “and I
bet it was that fat heel of an
inspector dropped a cigarette-
butt.”
“We can’t prove it, Jim,”
Terry told him. “What a god-
send they saved all the store
sheds.”
In a depressed silence they
tramped around the remains.
“If we get cracking,” Jim
said thoughtfully, “we can get
all the men together—it means
their jobs as well as ours —and
run-up some kind of a factory
ourselves. But we’ve got to get
those buttons moving out. Terry,
you’re production - manager.
You’ll have to organise that end
of it. Now, round up all the men
you can and we’ll get this mess
cleared away as soon as it’s
cool enough to shift.”
Jim and Terry had, both
served their time in the same
engineering works, and, while
they were perfectly confident
that they could run up a
temporary structure, the real
headache was only beginning for
them. They must hold their
clients over the rush period
while they were reorganizing
the factory.
npERRY drove home to get
-*• his dungarees and breakfast
and began telephoning the
former employees of Trimtone
Buttons. His wife and daughters
overheard enough to realise that
this was a crisis. When he came
away from the telephone, stern
and Napoleonic, Julie, his wife,
and the three girls gathered
round while he gave them a
brief account of the damage,
“We’ll just have to finish the
buttons by hand,” he concluded.
“If necessary I’ll bring the
buttons home and do them
myself.”
“We could help,” the girls
clamored. They were all fair
and long-legged and self-reliant.
“No, indeed,” Terry said
firmly. “Neither you nor your
mother lays a hand on a button.
But it’s an idea. I wish I knew,”
he added, “where I could find
some women who would work
on them part-time at home.
Might tide us over.?’
“I’ll tell you who would be
keen to earn some extra money,”
his wife suggested. “Maidie
Morris down the road is saving
up for a piano so she can take
music pupils again. She sold
hers when her mother fell ill.”
“How do you find these things
out?”
Terry was always astonished
that his wife, who had so little to
say, always had people confiding
in her. Julie was quiet and dark,
so quiet you would hardly know
she was there sometimes. But
Terry found this restful when he
came home and fell asleep in his
chair after an exhausting day.
They had only just moved into
this new, very select neighbor-
hood and he was anxious that
his wife and daughters should
have a pleasant, sheltered life,
the opposite to his own hard-
pressed early years.
“I always thought the Morrises
had pots of money,” he muttered
through a mouthful of toast.
“No one has pots of money
nowadays. Haven’t you heard
of the impoverished middle-
class? Besides, Maidie has to
stay home to look after her
mother.”
“Well, you could just hint
around and see if she’d do it.”
Terry went off to a day’s
work such as he had not known
in years, heaving up charred
beams, carting twisted corru-
gated-iron, returning home black
and filthy with soot-flakes in
his eyebrowl
6 6TF you go and see Maidie
A Morris,” Julie announced,
“she’ll start on the buttons as
soon as you bring them.”
“Fine! I’ve got a hundred
gross she can sort and stitch on
cards right away.”
“Brenda Purvis was there
while I was telling Maidie and
she’ll help too, because she’s a
friend of Maidie’s and it’ll get
them done quicker if they work
together. They’re going to bring
in some more and organise a
big working-bee.”
“That’s a noble spirit.”
Terry smiled for the first time
that day.
“They wanted to know how
much you paid.”
The smile faded from Terry’s
face. “Well, now, they wouldn’t
make as much as skilled
workers, but this batch of orders
is easy.” He was so tired he
could have fallen down, but he
dragged himself to the Morris
home and arranged to leave the
buttons to be sorted. He would
come down and show the toilers
how to stitch them on the cards.
“We’re so grateful you
should have considered us, Mr.
Carson,” Maidie said fervently.
“You see, X can’t take a job
because of Mother, and now
even Mother will be able to help
because her arthritis won’t pre-
vent her doing the sorting, and
anyway she gets tired of read-
ing.”
Terry felt noble and bene-
volent. “The pleasure is all
mine,” he said.
“Threepence a gross, I think
you said?” Miss Morris niur-
mured. “That’s a hundred
threepences. How much would
that be?”
Terry told her.
“It doesn’t sound much, does
it?”
“Oh, there are better-paid
jobs,” Terry assured her. “I’ll
bring you along a couple of
machines for putting in togs and
show you how to work them.
That’s much better paid.”
“Oh good! You must think
I’m dreadfully mercenary.”
“Not at all.”
11}ROM Julie’s reports it soon
-*■ appeared that among the
ladies the craze for “doing
buttons” was spreading. Gross
after gross of buttons went out
with Terry every night. A num-
ber of Maidie’s friends launched
out for themselves. Maidie’s
home became a depot from
which the work was given out to
deserving matrons, some of
whom spent more time on the
buttons than they did caring for
their husbands and families.
Those with young children who
could assist in the sorting were,
as Terry said, cleaning up quite
a packet. To do the togs they
had to pick the tog up with a
pair of pliers, put it into the
little hole in the back of the
button, then punch it down,
Maidie’s sister-in-law, who
was just about to have a baby,
became a button enthusiast. Her
husband was an air-pilot, and
when he arrived home from a
routine run to England she met
him at the door in such excite-
ment that he nearly had heart-
failure.
“Darling,” she cried, “guess
what?”
He dropped his bag and
stared at her*, swiftly reviewing
other men who might change
trips with him. Some pilot’s
wife was always adding to the
population ..figures, and the
elaborate calculations which
went on so that an anxious
father might stay home over a
critical period made mere navi-
gation figures simple by com-
parison.
“What did the doctor say?”
he demanded.
“It’s not the doctor. I’ve got
seven gross of darling buttons to
go back to dear Terry, and I
can’t quite manage the togging-
machine. I’ve finished them all
except the togs. So you will
do it, won’t you, sweet? All
that lovely pin-money!”
“But, look here,” he pro-
tested, “I thought I was manag-
ing to keep this home together,
and I have only a few days...”
The tears started to his wife’s
eyes. “We could do buttons
together,” she sniffed. “It would
be such fun.”
“Oh, all right,” he said hastily.
“Just show me how the... thing
.., .works.”
“It’s very easy—but you have
to stamp it down—like this.”
“No, no! Don’t you do it.
Just show me.”
When he saw Terry in the
street he almost snarled at him.
T>UT it was surprising how
- L * many women there were
with husbands' abroad, or away
on business trips, who welcomed
the extra money and the occu-
pation for their spare time.
“Darling Terry” was the most
popular man for miles around.
He was giving out work which
was comparatively well-paid, de-
manded little skill and lots of
time. His own family saw him
no more.
He left home very early,
toiled like a demon in the skele-
ton structure where new benches
were being installed and new
machinery. There was a rush
order for diamente buttons and
buckles for a good customer,
and night after night Terry was
out sitting with one or other of
his women workers. The but-
tons were carded and then a
little glue was pushed on the
end of a match into each tiny
hole. The diamente bead was
pressed down on the glue with
the top of a pencil.
“We ought to devise a more
efficient system,” Terry said
briskly; and he experimented
with a rubber dropper for the
glue. The glue came through
too fast, and Terry tried hold-
ing the little nozzle over the gas-
jet and pinching it closed. He
burned up three rubber droppers
and nearly set the Morris
kitchen alight. Then he began
experimenting with a hypo-
dermic-syringe which he was
adapting to picking up several
pieces of diamente at once.
That didn’t work either. He
had better success when his em-
ployees complained that the
pliers gave them blisters. He
wrapped a strip of rubber
round the handle of the pliers.
“Brenda isn’t shaping badly
at all,” he reported as he
climbed wearily into bed at mid-
night.
“No?” his wife said coldly,
“Her husband’s left her, poor
kid, and he isn’t giving her
enough money to keep the house
and the children. She wants to
get her divorce and she’s work-
ing like a slave. She’s really
keen. I must see if I can’t slip
some of the better-paid jobs her
way.”
By this time Terry, from sit-
ting long hours helping and
directing his labor-force, had
learned more of the private his-
tory of the neighboring families
than Julie ever knew. Adrienne’s
youngest needed an expensive
operation, Maidie’s brother was
drinking harder than ever, all
the small Wintrops were down
with measles.
“But the best worker of them
all is Brenda, poor girl,” Terry
said sentimentally. “Anything
in the way of rush orders she’ll
work all night to get it done. I
was saying to the others ‘Girls,
this is no good, you’ll have to
pull up your socks. Brenda is
running rings round all of you.
She drew ten pounds fifteen this
week.’ ”
Julie made no comment, and
Terry yawned luxuriously.
“Nice work.”
■pOR the next few weeks all
went well; but then Terry
began to run out of the better-
paid jobs, like buckles. The
female toilers complained that
it was all very well for Terry to
rush in and say “Get cracking.
I’ve got to have this order ready
tomorrow night.”
They would hastily share out
the contents of the sacks between
them, half a sack here, another
there, and work madly to get
them finished. But the pay for
the orders came back in odd
sums when they had forgotten
who took home which rush job
or how much each had done.
So they had to average it, and
there was general discontent.
But, as Maidie pointed out, it
wasn’t possible to count every
button, nor yet every gross. Half
a sack was what they worked
on.
“We are not all Brendas,”
Maidie Morris pointed out
acidly. “She has nothing else
to do now her husband’s left,
but I have mother and my sister-
in-law has the new baby, and
some of the other girls say it
o Continued on page 22)
EARTH HAS NO SIGN
Life is a bad and brutal busi-
ness,’*
Laughed the thistle as it shoul-
dered down the wheat;
“ ’Twill grind you to a small
white meal,
Fit my crown to a wild wind’s
feet!”
And, “Here’s the first breath of
winter.
This shade on my bough is grief,”
Moaned the spinsterish silver
poplar.
Shining into spring-time leaf.
And, “I run twice from you
For once that I come,”
Said the yellow cheeses
In the caves of Antome.
And, fled to the edge of earth,
Glittering in grey salt air.
Tense - bunched, cliff - grasses
whispered,
“Life is a mortal affair!”
But dance with the thistles.
Glimmer with the trees.
Run with the grasses,
And jump with the cheese!
For earth has no sign
Which the heavens lack
At solstice, winter or summer.
Said the sour-faced queen
In the gambler’s pack,
“Take luck from every comer!”
VIC.
MARY FINNIN.
TOKEN WOMAN
v
She who laughed and she who
wept
are one, when all is counted up,
the sum made and the account
kept
and grief and joy in the same cup
caught, shaken, and sadly supped
by him who neither laughs nor
weeps
lest of a sudden tear dropped
they squeeze the juice of wine
grapes
and drink and are drunk, and
none knows
the source; or lest the laughter be
worn like a cloak by one who goes
cunningly, cunningly
to her who laughs, to her who
cries
sometimes at night (for weariness
but not sorrow) ; in whose eyes
anger may dance, but not distress
at anything the world may do
to him who neither laughs nor
weeps
but sits alone to listen t®
the ebb and flood that blood keeps
to keep him living, listening
also to her, the steps, the voice
that carry on the reckoning:
the token mother of the race.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


>;
m
CORRECTLY DRESSER!
Why not? No man to-day need be without a
smart, comfortable suit. You CAN now secure
a suit that is ALWAYS correct and right.
Using only pure Australian fleece wool, the
famous Crusader Mills have woven for us
Worsted Cloths of beauty and strength; cloths
guaranteed never to fade or shrink. These attrac-
tive cloths, pre-tailored by Stamina into smart,
comfortable D.B. Suits, can be yours for only a
fraction of the cost you would reasonably expect
to pay. Yes, this suit is truly ideal for EVERY
WEAR everywhere. Stamina master-tailored De
Luxe Suits are available now at your own
Stamina Men’s-wear Store. With a rising wool
market and the prospect of a big drop in wool
production, you are certainly wise to buy NOW.
ASK FOR
Stamina. CT ,jl —
D-B PUUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
HOME AGAIN
by OLIVER
FILTER
THE row at the Lunkerses’
seemed to be worse than
usual. There was more fury
about the sound of things
being thrown; Ma Lunkers’s
abuse, threats and imprecations
were shriller; and Harry
Lunkers’s yells and admonitions
had a note of real panic and
anguish about them.
He ejected himself out the
back-door ; but a bucket thrown
with the accuracy of a guided
missile took him in the back of
the neck, and he went down.
Ma Lunkers was close behind
the bucket with the mop. She
belted Harry wherever she could
hit him.
“You crawling thief,” she
screamed. “You sold my calf.
1 want the money. Where’s the
money?” With each sentence
she belabored the scrambling
figure.
“ ’Tweren’t your calf,” Harry
shouted. He almost managed to
get up, but a magnificent shove
from the mop connected squarely
with his chest, and he fell back
covering his face from the next
impending swipe.
“7 paid for the bull,” she spat
at him.
Harry was about to tell her
that she hadn’t, but then he
remembered that she had given
him ten shillings for the service-
fee, and that he had used it for
more pressing purposes. At the
time, by a convenient coin-
cidence, Harry’s friend, Scro-
fulous Jock the poundkeeper,
had just impounded an eager
young bull and it had been a
simple matter to effect the neces-
sary meeting. At the time Harry
had regarded it as a stroke of
financial sagacity and, later,
when he sold the calf, one which
entitled him to undisputed
ownershp of the animal.
Those were things he, could
not tell Ma, however, particu-
larly as she stood over him with
the mop. He rolled and twisted
and managed to escape towards
the gate, where he stood rubbing
his bony joints and considering
the next move. Ma did not
follow; she had weight and
agility, but no speed, and never
tried to carry a battle beyond
her capabilities.
She waved the mop at her
husband and shrieked “You’re
a no-good skunk! ” Then she
went in and slammed the door
behind her. When he was sure
it was safe Harry crossed the
yard to the shed, harnessed the
horse into the old spring-cart
and drove into town.
MR. and MRS. LUNKERS
lived in Honeysuckle-avenue
on the fringes of what estate-
agents describe as a rural
suburb. Their estate was a two-
acre lot in one comer of which
Harry had, over the years, built
their house of fibro, galvanised-
iron, whitewashed hessian and
salvaged timber.
They owned a cow, a horse
and cart and a scatter of
chooks; they lived on the dole,
supplemented by an unreliable
income from selling a little milk,
a few eggs and the occasional
use of the cart to haul a load of
wood or manure.
Over the years they had raised
a great brood of children, all of
whom had shown excellent judg-
ment and independence of spirit
by leaving home as soon as
possible. Their fights were
frequent, and generally hinged
on the possession of the bits and
pieces of income from various
sources, a question which, despite
the rows, was generally decided
by whoever got hands on
it first. Occasionally Ma would
relieve Harry of the egg-money
by brute force; an act which
was balanced by the times
that Harry nosed-out the places
where Ma hid the income from
milk.
Despite all that, however,
something in the unpredictable
chemistry of human relation-
ships kept them together ; and
the alliance, though violent,
seemed not unnatural, probably
because it was impossible to
imagine either of them with
anyone else.
There were only two other
houses in the street, each of them
of ‘the same architectural
standard as the Lunfcerses’ place,
and each of them on its own two
acres. In one lived Black Annie,
whose name derived from the
lustre of her eyes, and who sub-
sisted on a mysterious “inkum”
and a few fowls and fruit-trees;
in the other lived Mum Reynolds
and her twin sixty-year-old sons.
They grew vegetables, raised
“table-birds” and lived on pen-
sions. The Reynoldses bought
their milk from Ma Lunkers,
which more or less established
them as friends, but Black
Annie, having long ago ended
her acquaintance with milk, and
water for that matter, was rated
beneath Ma’s social scale.
It was to the Reynoldses’ that
Ma Lunkers went and poured
out her indignation, and it was
at the Reynoldses’ she stayed, i
after a short trip home for some
of her possessions. When Harry
came home he found on the
kitchen-table a note which stated
with admirable brevity and
clarity: “I’ve left you, Harry
Lunkers. You ain’t no good to
no one.”
!
HARRY sat down and looked
at the note as though it
might tell him more. He
expected almost anything from
Ma, but he couldn’t digest the
idea of her leaving him. What
perplexed him even more,
though, was the question of
where she had gone. For a
moment he thought of her desti-
tute and looking for somewhere
to live and a twinge of guilt
nipped him ; but Ma wasn’t a
woman ,you felt sorry for, and
his feelings soon changed to
vague misgivings and a sense of
something unpleasant for him-
self in the air.
He went out with the intention ,
of consulting Scrofulous Jock ;
but, as he went for the horse, he
saw Ma’s ample black-clad figure
in the back - garden of the
Reynoldses’. He retreated to the
house to consider the situation
and, after a lonely meal of black
tea and bread with golden-syrup,
spent most of a sleepless night
still considering it. After
twelve hours in the house on his
own the troubled state of his
mind became unbearable, so he
walked down to the Reynoldses’.
“Hey!” he shouted from the
gate. A curtain moved in the
front window, but no one
appeared, so he ventured to the
front veranda and repeated his
summons. Mum Reynolds came
out. “Wotcha want?” she
asked him.
“I want me missus, o’ course,”
he told her. “I know you’ve got
’er in there.”
Ma came out through the
door and Mum Reynolds said
“Just you leave your poor wife
alone, ’Arry Lunkers.”
Harry had not the slightest
intention of touching his wife ;
at the mere sight of her he had
quickly shifted his bony, bandy
frame at least twelve feet from
the veranda.
Ma crossed her arms over her
ample bosom and looked at him.
“I told you I was through with
you, Lunkers,” she said. “You’re
a loafer an’ a thief, an’ I ain’t
goin’ t’ waste another day of
me life on you.” She turned to
Mum Reynolds. “I couldn’t call
a penny me own with ’im
around.”
Harry chose to ignore the
direction of the attack. “T’ain’t
right you livin’ ’ere with two
strange men, Ma. T’ain’t right
at all. It’ll get around.”
“Listen to ’im,” Ma said with
vast sarcasm. “Listen to ’im
talkin’ about what’s right and
what’s wrong. An 7 after ’im
sellin’ the calf which was my
property an’ then spendin’ the
money.” The thought roused her
and she moved "off the veranda
and seized a rake,
Harry stopped when he was
safely out of range. ‘Til get
advice,” he shouted. “You see.
I’ve stood a lot, but I ain’t
gonner stand this. I’ll get advice
today.”
He stalked back up the street,
got out the horse and cart and
drove down towards the town to
see old Winters.
WINTERS was old and deaf,
and gave freely what legal
knowledge he still retained from
a small suburban practice
abandoned twenty years before.
Harry crossed the garden to
where Winters dreamed in a
deck-chair in the sun. He bel-
lowed as much of the story ais
suited him into the old man’s
ear.
“Restitution suit,” the old man
muttered to him.
“What?” Harry shouted.
“Sue for restitution of
conjugal rights,” Winters said.
“What’s that do?”
'‘The judge’ll order her back
to you. If she doesn’t come you
get your divorce.”
“I don’t want a divorce,”
Harry bellowed. “I want to
make her come back home,”
The old man waved his hands in
finality.
The idea of suing for rights,
however, impressed Harry, and,
after a discussion and drink with
Scrofulous Jock, he ventured
back up to the Reynoldses’
house. Ma came out and stood
on the veranda again,
“I’ve seen my lawyer,” Harry
told her, “and I’m going to sue
you for my conjugal rights.”
Ma shook her fourteen-stone
with a gusty laugh. “Sue
away,” she said. “Y’ can ’ave
y’r rights any time y’re game to
come for ’em. In fact I’ll give y’
some now.” She moved towards
him, but he went like a rabbit.
The next two days were
uneventful. Ma worked cheer-
fully about the Reynoldses’ place
while Harry skulked at home,
alternating between periods of
concentrated plotting and miser-
able solitude. On the third day
he threw a copy of the district’s
weekly paper over the
Reynoldses’ fence with, marked
in pencil, a small “Public
Notice”:
/, Harold Lunkers, will not be
responsible for any debts
incurred by my wife, Eleanor
Lunkers. Sgd. Harold Lunkers.
Two copies of the following
week’s issue were left over his
fence. In the same column,
under the same heading, it was
announced that:
I, Eleanor Lunkers, having
paid all my husband’s bills in
the past, hereby state that I will
not pay them in the future, and
therefore request that his
creditors stop pestering me.
Sgd. Eleanor Lunkers.
Harry sensed that other
brains were working for Ma,
and went off for consultation
with Scrofulous Jock. The con-
sultation lasted for a day and a
night. The result of it was
(i Continued on page 22)


hurts their eyes so they can’t
work at night, and while they
don t mind putting in an hour
n °w an d then, they have their
children, and the littler ones say
they’re tired of buttons. It isn’t
fun any more.”
“Well, just do this lot for
me J” Terry said winningly.
“I will if you come and help,”
Maidie responded. “How much
are they worth?”
“Now, Maidie, I don’t set
the price ; you know that. I
don’t run the firm. I’m just one
of the slaves.”
Maidie looked at him sus-
piciously. “Don’t talk to me
about slaves,” she said sternly.
“Mother was saying only the
other day that white slavery
wasn’t in it with this.”
“I’ll be down after tea,” Terry
said meekly. He knew Maidie
had put down a deposit on the
piano and had to pay it off.
“And where are you going to-
night?” his wife asked. “Down
to Brenda’s again?”
“No, over to Maidie’s,” he
said briskly. “She’s got a lousy
lot of burring to do. I’m scared
to take it to Brenda’s because
the inspector turned down the
lot she sent in and she’d taken
two days on it. It only paid
fifteen shillings; and fifteen
shillings for two days’ work
isn’t good. She used a single
thread instead of a double one
because they have to buy their
own cotton and she was econo-
mising.”
Would it interest you to
know,” his wife asked, in a voice
unlike her own, “that you are
now known locally as Old Simon
Legree? The other day there
was a meeting and a speaker
came out from the city to
address the Women’s Club
They decided to press for better
pay for women, and they are
going to give up buttons and put
all their time into organising.
And what’s more,” her lips
quivered, “nobody’s speaking to
me because I’m your wife and
you work for that sweatshop—
that’s what they call it—a sweat-
shop. I’m the woman who’s
married to the production-
manager of a sweatshop.”
“It is not,” Terry said hotly.
“Naturally, working at home
they’re slower all except
Brenda.”
“Brenda! Brenda! I’m sick
of Brenda.” The mild Julie was,
for once, as fierce as a tigress.
“Working until midnight with
Brenda night after night! No
wonder Brenda makes a lot of
money! ”
“But, pet, you can’t think for
a moment...”
“I don’t think anything. v I
know you spend the time you
should spend with your family
in every home but your own.
People,” Julie said primly, “are
beginning to talk. After all,
you work for Trimtone all day
long.
“But, pet, I’m production-
manager. I have to produce
buttons. And the inspector has
his knife into me because he
thinks I gave Jim the idea he
was smoking just before the fire,
so he turns down as many but-
tons as possible, and all the
women are sore at me because
they think it’s my fault, but it’s
only this heel trying to show
how efficient he is... ”
“Don’t try to make excuses,
Terry,” his wife said bitterly.
“You’ve enjoyed it. You
wouldn’t let me and the girls
do buttons because you didn’t
want us spoiling your fun.”
“But, pet, that’s<= ridiculous. I
didn’t want you and the girls
spoiling your hands and your
eyesight. Anyway,” he said
hastily, “I’ve' got to get dowh
to Maidie’s.”
Women, he thought bitterly,
the illogical, ungrateful, unjust
nature of women. He wouldn’t
have believed this of Julie.
A/fAIDIE was treating him
more haughtily than he
would have believed possible./
After this don’t bring down
any more sacks of buttons.
"I cn recognise Mum anywhere—bunions
Terry, until you have some that
pay two shillings a gross.”
“But, Maidie, you can’t let
me down.. 9
“I’m giving piano lessons
now, and I just haven’t the time,
Terry. And Brenda said to tell
you she’s got a full-time job in
an office. She can’t afford to do
buttons any longer. Sorrv.
Terry.” y *
Terry returned home with his
mind fully made up that what he
needed were some women who
lived in small houses in a poor
suburb and had nine children
apiece to help with the sorting.
But how was that going to help
him just on this next batch of
orders? He would have to adver-
tise. Brenda might have told
him she was quitting.
“You’re home early,” his wife
said, looking up from her book.
“Is that an interesting book?”
he asked winningly, sitting down.
“No,” she sighed, “but I sit
here night after night with noth-
ing else to do but sew or read.”
“Dear,” he said gently. “I’ve
been thinking over what you
said, and there’s a lot of truth
in it.”
“In what? About you and
Brenda?”
“Nothing about me and
Brenda. I want to be home
with you. I was wrong to intro-
duce any system among these
women. They’re too grasping.
Now I’m going to taper them all
off. I get tired of going out at
night. But there’s the buttons.
I have all these rush orders...”
Her lips quivered. “Terry, we
offered to help in the first place.
We wouldn’t see you left. The
girls and I would love it.”
“Well, now,” Terry said
nobly, “I’ve told Maidie and
Brenda I won’t want them any
longer.”
Julie’s face lit up. “Oh, do
let us help,” she cried. “When
can we start?”
“Tomorrow night. You are
sure, Julie, quite sure you won’t
get tired and quit?”
“No, darling. We’d do any-
thing to help—you know that.”
“Splendid,” Terry said con-
tentedly. “I’ll get you a togging-
machine right away.”
He had a particularly dreary
and tedious order waiting to be
trimmed and burred. It would
pay Julie out for what she had
thought about him and Brenda.
“Why,” he told himself virtu-
ously, “as far as Brenda’s con-
cerned, I never had the time.”
Julie broke in on his thoughts.
“And we’ll buy a grand-piano
with the money,” she cried. “It
will be wonderful,”
“Eh?” Terry said. He began
to feel that his new set of slaves
might prove even harder than
the last lot.
apparent when, on the follow-
ing day, he marched boldly past
the Reynoldses’ with Black
Annie, carrying some of her
goods and chattels in a basket.
TMTA watched them go into her
1 house, and waited until
Harry went past again.
“Lunkers!” she bawled.
Harry stopped and walked
over to the fence.
“What’s that tart doin’ in my
place?” she demanded.
Harry tried to appear casual.
“I gotter ’ave someone to do for
me since you won’t. Can’t
manage the house on me own
and get about me business, too.
Annie’s goin’ to housekeep for
me.”
In his talking he let get
too close to him. She caught
him a resounding swipe across
the head and almost walked over
him on her way. She went into
her house and dealt with Annie
by the simple procedure of
knocking her down every time
she got up, and drowning her
shrieks with a stream of abuse.
She kept it up as far as the gate,
and hurled Annie’s possessions
after her as she fled down the
street. Then she dusted herself
off and walked triumphantly
back to the Reynolds place.
Harry was beaten. He hung
about the place two or three
days, and then loaded his
possessions into the cart. When
he was ready to go he went
down to see Ma.
“I just come down to say
goodbye,” he told her. '
Ma was suspicious. “Why?”
she asked.
“Goin’ away,” he said. “No
sense in hangin’ around when I
don’t have to keep a home
together.”
“Huh,” said Ma contemptu-
ously.
“Might set up me own little
business somewhere,” he said.
“Business! You!” said Ma
with even greater contempt.
“Oh, well, goodbye, anyway,”
he said. “Just thought I’d tell
you.”
“Good riddance,” said Ma.
TTARRY walked back up the
street and went into the
house to get his hat. He was
looking around the place with a
feeling close to sentiment when
Ma took him from behind. She
knocked him down and started
to flail him with her favorite
weapon, the mop.
“You rotten, crawling little
sneak-thief!” she abused him
between blows. “Tryin’ to get
away when you owe me money.
You’re a louse, Lunkers, a plain
louse. But don’t think you can
get, away with it. You’re stayin’
in this house and I’m stayin’ to
see that you do until you pay me
back every penny you got for
that calf!”
Harry broke for ,the back-
door and the gate. But even as
he ran and ducked to avoid the
mop he felt a wonderful feeling
of companionship and per-
manency.
VARIOUS VERSE
THE RIVERS
Somewhere in the middle of the ocean every lost river
With f ° Ut ’ re^ each picks its own thread
With its own green hand like a wattle bending over.
T^ey dead I<}ng whit ® flesh in the land of the
Wlth their amber and B reen » they tremble with
Then they begin to move in a waving of the weed.
Like a weaving of dancers they cross each other and double
While ruby-eyed fishes stare in the huge dim hush.
It is no table at all, of course they are able—
Impossible ever to think that creek of the bush
lhat bubbk ItSC f thr ° Ugh and thr °ugh. each pebble and
By fern and wattle and moss so sure in its rush,
Should crash and go down to the arms of the great bull-kelp
forty feet long, to strangle in leathery streamers,
forever lost in the darkness crying help help;
the m . ight y Murray rolling through summers
With halt a continent caught in its mind asleep
In mile upon wild blue mile should shatter in the combers,
Diffusing to a vast grey mist. But they find themselves
Again, yes they do, and now thev bev’n to travel
Out of the mist, up from the strangling caves,
Shaking the saltwater off like bright green gravel.
Before them lies the world’s width under the waves.
Some may be found far south beneath the level
White paddocks of ice-floes, rubbing like shadows of whales
* heir backs on the icebergs; they think it strange beyond
knowing
That the big white rocks are afloat; but the stream that steals
In the gardens of coral, northward and sunward flowing
Like a ray in the water rippling on ghostly sails,
Where orange and purple, all in the ocean glowing,
Butterflies and flowers of weed and rock and fishes
Flash like the colors of summer across his mind.
Thinks he is back on earth; and so when he wishes,
So do they all when there’s no more to find,
They do go back; where first the ocean washes
A river s bright eyes blind with surf and sand
They feel through the waves with their hands, they find their
own course.
Their rushing children push them away from the valley
But now is their hour, they leap, like rainbows they force
The arch of their currents high where starshine is stony
Streaming across the sky to the snow and the source;
And laughing they plunge once more on the same wild
journey.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
BEACH QUEEN
Saturday. Dove calls to running wave;
Light rocks in the hammocks of the swell
Dove-breasted. The city like a grave;
Flats without thoughts and clocks that doze—
Today, tomorrow, yesterday, forget.
In the dream of the humming-top, forget
Landladies with slippers off who knit
Today, tomorrow, out of yesterday.
For the dove cries to the running wave.
6 elsewhere. Surely this is enough?
Blond multitudes upon the sand, a girl
Reading a book in sunglasses, the haze,
The acrobats and the ice-cream man,
The children building flats upon the sand.
The great ships drag horizons for her
And the tamed lions, the shouldering waves,
Slide to her sandalled feet and beach
The blond-and casual to adore her.
Turn a page, how much more?
—ln her garden Venus walks alone.
Turns and picks a fruit, aware, unknowing.
For oil the sense sickens! The sun hurts,
Sand rasps and stings. What do the waves cry?
Last week they swept the beach and left it bare.
What do they say? In smoke on the blue air
An aircraft scribbles slogans in the sky.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL
FLOWER
Three white petals float
above the green.
You cannot think they spring from it
till the fine stem’s seen.
So separated each from each,
and each so pure—
yet at the centre here they touch
and form a flower.
Flakes that drop at the flight of a bird
and have no name,
I’ll set a word upon a word
to be your home.
Up from the dark and jungle floor
you have looked long.
Now I come to lock you here
in a white song.
Word and word are chosen and met.
Flower, come in.
But before the trap was set
the prey was gone.
The words are white as a stone is white
carved for a grave;
but the flower blooms in eternal light,
being now: being love.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWES.T CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claim*
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A . 0, Parker .
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P- BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pltt street * Sydney.
Branches in all States,
1 .
. . .it's good time..
/ WJjw/w
/ i/
/ #7 / /
// -
.s^*C^ VV V v?
r s
/ (
m
L
mi's
w ■ .-. •
!* X»\s.vVW.Vv,
«8S»8«
. -
sawwwe C^«
CL
THEY’RE
BLENDED
BETTER
127D.5 53
In Waldron's Tree
by AESTURGES
A STRANGER stopped one
day at Mr. Waldron’s gate,
and looked up to read the
board mounted above the
gateposts :
R. A. Waldron, 8.E., A.M.I.E.
Consulting Engineer.
It pleased him that Mr.
Waldron was an engineer: they
would speak the same language.
He walked purposefully up the
path, unaware of the colors and
scents of the Canterbury bells,
foxgloves and hollyhocks; but
he did stop for a moment to stare
towards Mr. Waldron’s tree.
Then he climbed the stone steps
and rang the bell.
Mrs. Waldron opened the
door. He took off his hat.
“Good morning; could I see
Mr. Waldron, please?”
“Come in, will you, and I’ll
see. Sit down.”
He thanked her; as she
padded down the passage he
looked about him appraisingly,
nodding approval at the sensible
light-fitting, at the painting—a
straightforward rendering of
nature —hung truly square on the
wall, at the engineer’s touch in
the nicely - fitting draught-
excluder on the door.
A/TRS. WALDRON opened the
Workroom door. It was a
large room, but with no spare
space, crammed with the para-
phernalia of the consulting
engineer. A huge desk in the
centre dominated the room;
around it stood, in apparent con-
fusion, but actually placed with
great care, a drawing-board on
trestle-legs, a reference-table and
drawers, a long bookcase filled
to overflowing with the accumu-
lated knowledge of generations
of engineers* and a small table
at the left of the desk holding a
large tobacco-jar, two pipes, a
packet of matches, a tumbler and
two jugs, one of water, one of
Mrs. Waldron’s home - made
lemon-syrup.
Mr. Waldron sat at the desk,
the top of which was completely
covered with a litter of pens and
pencils, scale-rules, textbooks,
blueprints, pads and sketch-
blocks. His pipe was in his
mouth, but it was cold and for-
gotten ; he was manipulating,
with a surgeon’s delicacy, a large
Fuller’s-rule, peering suspiciously
over half-moon spectacles at the
figures before writing them
down, then looking back for a
final check as if the pointer may
have lied.
As Mrs. Waldron watched, he
raised his eyes from the rule to
stare blindly at the bare wall
above the bookcase, his lips
moving silently. She smiled and
closed the door gently—though
she knew that, had she banged
it, it would not have mattered —
and went back to the hall.
“I’m sorry, but I’m afraid you
can’t see Mr. Waldrdn just now.”
He stood up. “Do you know
when he’ll be back?”
She smiled an apology. “Oh,
he’s not out; he’s working.”
TJE raised his eyebrows ; she
she hastened to explain.
“It’s not that he won’t see you ;
he doesn’t know you’re here. It
was no use my trying to tell
him; he was concentrating and
wouldn’t have heard me.”
He frowned. She smiled her
forgiveness; she had taken a
long time to realise the extent of
Robert’s power of concentra-
tion. She laughed inwardly now
at the memory of an attempt by
Andrew, Robert’s brother, to
break Robert’s “pose” the
tremendous explosion of the big
brown-paper bag at Robert’s
door; her own startled scream,
even though she had watched
him ; and Robert, using fyis slide-
rule, not blinking nor moving a
muscle, except to jot down a
reading and begin another.
She came back to her visitor.
“Are you on the phone? I
could get him to ring you as soon
as he’s free.”
“Yes, thank you.” He tore a
leaf from his notebook, wrote:
/. M. Parsons.
Structural Engineer.
Harvest Machinery Pty., Ltd.
Phone 3525.
Then he wished her good-
day and walked back down the
path feeling a little unreal. At
the gate he turned and stared
again towards Mr. Waldron’s
tree.
MR. WALDRON looked at
the notebook leaf, then put
it in the wire-basket labelled
Pending—For Early Attention.
“Did he say what he wanted?”
Mrs. Waldron shook her head.
“Just that he wanted to see
you.”
He thought for a few
moments, then thumped the
desk. “Got it. I know what
he’s after.” He smiled, his eyes
bright. “That crowd”—he
nodded at the basket —“are going
to build a new factory, I saw
something about it in the paper
a week or two back. And I
reckon they’re looking for some-
one to design it for them.
Meaning me.”
She smiled teasingly. “They’ve
come to the right place, dear, if
they want a good one.”
He grunted. “You don’t have
to be a genius to design a
factory, Liz. Do one and you’ve
done the lot. Damned if I
know why I do ’em at all; if
there’s anything I dislike more
than factories, I haven’t found it
yet.” He looked around. the
room ‘ and sighed.” “Dunno
whether I’ll take it, anyway.
There’s enough work stacked up
here to keep me going flat-out
for a couple of years. TJey’ll
have to make a, good offer.” He
stared out of the window,
frowned. He sighed again,
heavily. 4 .
“Wish ! could get a bit of a
let-up from all this routine stuff.
It’s killing. I’d like to get enough
time to have a go at that pump.”
A shadow crossed Mrs.
Waldron’s face. She spoke in a
guarded voice. “Couldn’t you
employ someone to do the easy
parts for you? Then you could
find time. Others do it: Mrs.
Davis was saying”
He snorted. “Let Davis do
what he likes. I’m not interested
in losing my reputation. I’ve
seen it happen. You turn out a
decent design and then someone
slips up on the details. You’ve
got to do it all yourself to make
sure of a good job. I’ve heard
you say the same about house-
work.” He sighed again. “I’ll
just have to stick it out, and
leave the pump till I’ve? made
enough to retire. Trouble is,
someone else might get on to it
by then.”
Mrs, Waldron stood up.
He reached for the phone. “I
suppose I’d better ring him.” He
looked at the leaf again, and
dialled the number. Mrs.
Waldron went out.
“Hullo, er, could I speak to
Mr. Parsons, please? J.M. Yes,
thanks .. . Hallo? Oh, Waldron
here. Yes. Sorry you had a trip
for nothing. I’m afraid I was
working—oh, she did. Yes, yes,
that will be O.K. Yes, good-
bye.” Mr. Waldron hung up
and filled his pipe thoughtfully.
Must be hard up for a designer
to be in such a hurry.
MR. WALDRON gave his
visitor a cigarette,, lit it for
him, held the match to his
already-burning pipe. He leaned
back in his chair. “Well, now,
Mr. Parsons, what can I do for
you?”
Parsons unrolled a blueprint
and spread it bn the desk, using
two of Mr. Waldron’s books to
hold it flat.
“Our new assembling factory.
We’re going to build it in this
district.”
Mr. Waldron smiled to him-
self.
“But there’s one thing 'we
lack.”
Ah, here it comes. It’d better
be good or there’ll be no bite.
“As you can see”—Parsons
pointed to the overall dimensions
—“it’s not a big place. We’ve
planned it to fit on a small
block.”
Ah, trying to cut down the
fee. No good to me ; just as
much work designing it whether
it’s fifty squares or five-hundred.
Won’t catch me on that one ;
have to find someone a bit
greener.
“But we’re still in trouble.
Vacant blocks are scarce round
here.” He smiled. “And that’s
where you come in.”
Mr. Waldron stared. “Where
I come in?”
“Yes.” Parsons lifted the
books, the print rolled up with a
snap. There was a snap in
Parson’s eyes and voice. “We
want to buy your spare block.”
For a few seconds Mr.
Waldron was dumbfounded.
Then he chuckled, slapped his
thigh, laughed out loud. Parsons
frowned.
“Sorry.” Mr. Waldron con-
trolled himself. “Sorry, but you
knocked me off my perch. I’d
guessed that you were after me
to design the place for you.”
Parsons flushed. “Oh —well,
perhaps ... if I ... ”
Mr. Waldron waved a hand.
“Forget it, forget it. I’m not
chasing work. Just the
opposite.” He frowned. “About
the block. Well, frankly, you
can forget that, too.”
“You won’t sell?”
“Well, I’ll tell you how it is.
First, I hate factories. Can’t
stand ’em. Sounds funny, I sup-
pose, coming from a bloke that’s
designed and drawn dozens of
’em. But there it is, I hate ’em.
Shouldn’t have anything to do
with ’em, X suppose, feeling that
way. Hypocrite, but aren’t we
all? Second, there’s the tree.”
“The tree?”
“Yes, the tree on the block.
That’d have to go.”
“I think you’ll find the
company’ll make it well worth
your while, Mr. Waldron.”
Mr, Waldron shook his head,
“That tree’s worth a lot to me.
Parsons.”
“What, a valuable one, is it?”
“No, no; not in terms of
money.”
“Some sentimental value?”
“No, nothing like that. I
don’t know who planted it and
don’t care. No, it’s the birds.”
“Birds?” Parsons looked
puzzled.
“Yes, it’s a regular birds’
home. They nest there. All
sorts, I’ve seen”
6 6TJUT” —Parsons spoke hesi-
tantly, as one who voices
the obvious “surely they’d
soon find another place?”
Mr. Waldron smiled wryly.
“One to you. Parsons. I wasn’t
thinking of the birds; I was
thinking of myself. I like to
watch them, and listen to them
singing.”
Parsons leaned forward.
“Mr. Waldron” —he spoke
quietly and clearly, as to a back-
ward child —“Mr. Waldron, for-
give me if it’s an impertinent
question, but are you a wealthy
man?”
Mr. Waldron laughed. “No,
sir. I get enough to eat. But
I’m not wealthy.”
“Well, put it this way:' are
you in a position to be able to
do what you most want to ini
life?”
Mr. Waldron shook his head.
“No, Mr. Parsons ; definitely no.”
“What is it you want most,
Mr. Waldron?”
Mr. Waldron’s eyes twinkled.
“Something you can’t give me.”
“Yes, what’s that?”
“Time.”
“Time for what?”
Mr. Waldron smiled, a little
smile of self-pity. “Well, it’s
this way. A long time ago, I
got an idea. And, though I say
it myself, I think it’s a winner.
But I’ve never been able to spare
the time to work on it.”
He looked at Parsons for a
moment without speaking, then
went on. “X suppose you know
these heat-pumps, the ones that
extract the heat from the air, or
from water—well, naturally you
would, you being an engineer,”
Parsons nodded. “Well, I feel
that the designers got off the
track. I think I could make a
far better one than any that have
been on the market —smaller,
cheaper, more efficient.
“But at present it’s only a
guess, an intelligent guess. To
prove it I’d have to make a lot
of experiments —build a model
or two, run tests, tabulate results
and so on. It’d all take time
and money ; not a great deal of
money, but a hell of a lot of
time. And as you can see” —
he waved a hand at the piles of
drawings, the folders of design
notes —“as you can see, I’ve got
no spare-time. Not a minute.
Of course, when I . . . ” He
broke off, grinned boyishly.
“Sorry, Parsons, but you should
have stopped me. When I get
on my hobby-horse there’s no
holding me. And yet Tm a
quiet bloke, really.” He grinned
again.
PARSONS protested. “I’m an
engineer, too, don’t forget.
That sort of talk doesn’t bore
me. But look here, are you sure
we cant give you some spare-
time?”
Mr. Waldron raised his eye-
brows. “What do you mean?”
“Say the company was willing
to give you, for the block,
enough shares in the business —
and you know as well as I do
it’s a good solid one —enough
shares to keep you. So that you
only had to work for luxuries.
{Continued on page 34)


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers oft —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Missing Friend
IF WILLIAM HUDSON, formerly of
Opotiki, N.Z., of Maori race, aged about
42, last heard from over 20 years ago,
then working on a sugar plantation in
Queensland, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to
his advantage. Friends are requested to
bring this advertisement to his notice,
and anyone knowing his whereabouts or
of his death is requested to write
A. G. T. BRYAN, Solicitor, Thames, N.Z.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WILLIAM DIXON late of
La Perouse.—TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN
JANE DIXON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3357 of 1952 on the grounds
of habitual drunkenness and cruelty and
leaving without means of support during
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you might enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ninth day of Sep-
tember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALLAN E.
CUPIT & BEST, Solicitors, of Federal
Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A, H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
\
f
*
Swum
the
name
ft)
Callum
s
the
whisky
and
Wholly
distilled
blended
MCI 7/6.2
in Scotland
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Breasted and Robinson:
The Human Adventure; Breasted: The
Conquest of Civilisation; Santayana:
Realm of Essence and Realm of
Truth; Whitehead; Process and
Reality; Summers: Folkways; Fichte:
Science of Rights and Science of
Knowledge; A. Waley (trans.): Tales
from a Chinese Studio; Tagore:
The Gardener; Obata: The Works
of Li Po.—5523.
To buy copy of Australoddities by
Bill Beatty.—5522.
Facts in connection with the early
history of the Coomera Valley, South-
eastern Queensland. (Reply direct to
Austin Corcoran, Head Teacher,
Coomera Upper State School, via
Oxenford, South Coast Line, Queens-
land, who is compiling a history of
the valley.)
To get in touch with book collector
owning copies of (Euvres de Jean
Arthur Rimbaud and A Rebours by
Huysmans with labels drawn by
Norman Lindsay.—5525.
Sydney schoolboy would like clip-
pings of photographs of Australian
authors in magazines and newspapers
I or a school project; also a copy of
the Jubilee number of The Bulletin,
January 29, 1930.—5524.
To buy set of Bulletin postcards,
Australian Types,” six colored draw-
ings by Norman Lindsay, issued about
45 years ago.—5526.
To buy copy of The Story of
Waltzing Matilda by Sydney May.—
Words of poem about two Ameri-
cans who visited London looking for
talent for a silent film and who went
to a cafe where a young lady, Miss
Ada Stew, served as a waitress. Four
lines of the poem read: —
Into that shop there came one day.
Two strangers from the U.S.A.
Their tempers were distinctly sour
For they had wasted half an hour.
—5528.
Information Sought
(1) When was the first issue of the
verse magazine “Birth” published ?
(2) Who were its editors? (3) How
long did it last? (4) Who were the
contributors ?
(1) “Birth” was first published, in
Melbourne, in October, 1918. (2) It
was begun by William Mitchell, who
edited the first few issues. He was
followed by Gilbert Wallace, Bernard
O’Dowd, Nettie Palmer, F. T.
Macartney, and finally by Frank
Wilmot (“Furnley Maurice”). (3)
The final number appeared in
November, 1922. (4) Contributions
came from many Australian poets,
including the editors, and such writers
as Hugh McCrae, Dorothea Mac-
kellar, L. H. Allen, Mary Gilmore
and P } j. O’Leary. The editorial
notes very often consisted of lengthy
reviews of current Australian publi-
cations.
* * * *
When Alf Sands outpointed Al
Bourke at Sydney Stadium on Feb-
ruary 9 last, why was not Sands
awarded Bourke’s Australian middle-
weight championship ?
When a champion and challenger
are both under the weight-limit of
their division, the championship can-
not change hands on a points deci-
sion unless the contest is set for 15
rounds—the championship distance.
If a challenger k.o.’s a champion in
a scheduled 12-rounder, the title
changes hands, but a points decision
over 12 rounds makes no difference,
and as Sands only beat Bourke on
points over 12 rounds, Bourke re-
tained his championship. Had Sands
k.o.’d Bourke inside 12 rounds, how-
ever, he would have become Aus-
tralia’s new middleweight champion.
This is one of the rules controlling
Australian championships.
* * * ♦
(1) World prices of chromium ore?
(2) Percentage of chrome in ore being
worked in New Caledonia and
Rhodesia ? (3) Information on any
alluvial working of chromite? (4)
Names and addresses of some Sydney
assayers who would make quantitative
tests of alluvial concentrates contain-
ing gold, platinum, chromite, etc.?
(1) A late quotation for chrome
ore shows the U.K. sterling price at
£l3 2s. to £l4 15s. 6d. per ton for
48 per cent, good metallurgical c.i.f.;
and Rhodesian ore, long ton, f.o.b.
cars New York, 48 per cent, chromic
oxide 3:1 ratio $44-46, 48 per cent,
chromic oxide no fatio $32-33. (2)
It is understood that the percentage
of chrome in ore being worked in
New Caledonia runs from 45 per
cent, to 55 per cent, and the typical
is over 50 per cent. In Rhodesia the
percentage varies between 40 per cent,
and 52 per cent, in the Selukwe area
and between 48 per cent, and 52 per
cent, in the Salisbury area. (3) There
is no production of standard grades
of chrome ore in Australia at the
present time, but a deposit of low-
grade chromite (used in the manufac-
ture of refractory bricks) at Rock-
hampton, Queensland, is being
worked. The Bureau of Mineral
Resources (Melbourne) reports that
a deposit of chrome ore at Cqobina
(W.A.) has been examined and pro-
duction of 250,000 tons of 42 per
cent, to 49 per cent, ore is possible in
the future. The area is as yet un-
developed and costs of production
and transport' would be high, as the
locality is isolated. As far as it
is known the only State that possesses
alluvial deposits of chromite is Tas-
mania. There deposits are adjacent
to serpentine and occur to the north
and west of Renison Bell, and at
Adamsfield. The Renison Bell deposits
contain cassiterite and are close to
means of transport. (4) Assayers as
listed in the Sydney telephone direc-
tory are Harringtons Metallurgists
Ltd., 62 Booth-street, Annandale
(N.S.W.), C. Bristow, 167 iGeorge-
street North, Garrett Davidson
and Matthey, 824 George-street, Orr
and Welch, 80 Hunter-street, R.
Newman, 17 Bond-street, A. W. Dye,
r. and G. Building, Elizabeth-street,
and Mendelsohn Millward and
Fisher, 29 Bligh-street—all Sydney.
H= * * *
(1) Where will 1 find set out the
body of material to be taught in the
new Social Studies courses in N.S.W.
schools? (2) Who is responsible for
compiling this syllabus, and how is
it arrived at ? (3) Is there any legisla-
tion which definitely stipulates what
must be taught in the schools, in
detailed, rather than general, terms ?
(4) If I object to the use of a text-
book, what could I do about it as a
parent ?
(1) It is impossible to supply in
detail a list of references for each
topic in the courses in Social Studies.
An encyclopaedia, or standard texts
in History, Geography, Civics and
related subjects, would, however, pro-
vide the necessary information. Hie
writing and publishing of textbooks
covering any course of studies are the
right of any author or publisher.
The N.S.W. Education Department
has not published textbooks in Social
Studies on the courses in the new
curriculum nor does it prescribe text-
books in Social Studies for pupils’
use. (2) The N.S.W. Education
Department is responsible for the
preparation of the various courses
in Social Studies. The content of
the courses is selected by committees
of educationists working with, and
under the direction of, the Directors
of Primary or Secondary Education.
Their suggested courses are reviewed
and amended as required and sub-
mitted to the Director-General for
approval. The curriculum is then
issued under the authority of the
Minister for Education. (3) There
is no legislation which gives in detail
what is to be taught in schools. (4)
The department expects teachers,
from their professional experience, to
make wise selections where textbooks
are concerned, and it is suggested that
you discuss the question of the use
of any specific text with the prin-
cipal of the school concerned.
♦ * * *
Is it stupid to steal?
Yes. All crime is stupid, but it is
something more —it is wicked, evil.
All the noted jurists are more con-
cerned with the harmfulness than the
stupidity of crime (from petty stealing
to murder, treason, etc.), harmful
both to the individual victim and to
the nation as a whole. As an example,
the British judge, Sir Norman Birkett,
has said of one type of criminal:
“The blackmarketeer, for example,
influenced only by personal greed and
utterly careless of the needs of others
... .knowingly and deliberately breaks
the law for motives of personal gain
without thought for the community
fighting, it may be, for its very life.
In such a case punishment could
only be withheld at the cost of a
grave weakening of law and order
and consequent injury to the national
life.” “Stupid” in relation to crime
can probably be more properly
applied to the results to the criminal
himself —to the warped and stunted
life his crimes usually force him to
lead.
Brief Answers
A.E.H.: Yes, it is a reasonably
sound investment.".. .S.M.G.: Entries
for the Religious Short Story Quest,
which is being sponsored by St.
Mark’s Literary Guild, close on July
31. Entry-forms and all particulars
from the Rev. C. L. Oliver, 39 Jamie-
son-street, Granville (N.5.W.)....
W.S.: Eve Langley’s The Pea-Pickers
was published in America in 1946 by
E. P. Dutton and Cos., New York....
H.L.K.: The Silver Branch by Dulcie
Deamer, with dustjacket designed by
Norman Lindsay, was published by
the Swinbourne Press, Sydney, in
1948 J.J.: Atlas Publications (Mr.
P. Ryan, manager), 282 Queen’s-
parade, Clifton Hill (Vic.), will con-
sider comic strips from writers
J. 8.: Henry Lawson wrote many
short stories which had as their loca-
tion the Eurunderee, Gulgong and
Home Rule goldfields. Some of the
better ones, which will be in his
Collected Prose Works, are: “An
Old Mate of Your Father’s,” “When
the Sun Went Down,” “His Father’s
Mate,” “The Songs They Used to
Sing,” “Payable Gold,” “Brighten’s
Sister-in-Law,” “Water Them Gera-
niums,” “A Double Buggy at Lahey’s
Creek,” “The Golden Graveyard,”
‘The Chinaman’s Ghost,” “The
Loaded Dog,” “The Ghosts of Many
Christmases” and “Roll Up at
Talbragar”... .J.G.F.: Nancy Kees-
mg has* had one book of poems,
Imminent Summer, published. Any
bookseller could obtain a copy... .
FJ.W.: The story of the association
of Bernhard Otto Holtermann with
Beaufoy Merlin and with Charles
Baylxss and of the photographic col-
lection which resulted therefrom is
being told in serial form in “The
Australasian Photo-Review.” Copies
are pbtainable from Kodak (Aus-
tralasia) Pty., Ltd., 379 George-street,
Sydney....J.W.: If the shells are
accurately localised, Mr. D. F. Mc-
Michael, Assistant Curator of Shells,
the Australian Museum, College-
street, Sydney, would be pleased to
have them. Mr. S. J. Kellner, 174
Phillip-street, Sydney, may be in-
terested in purchasing the collection.
•• • -H.8.: “The Shared Dog” by
Z. V. Webb was printed in The
Bulletin of November 25, 1942. It
was later broadcast by the A.8.C.;
next by the 8.8. C.; published in
London Calling”; and an anthology
of the 8.8. C., Twice Told Tales.
Georgian House, Melbourne, pub-
lished it as a booklet, and it was
printed in a Spanish edition of the
New York “Catholic Digest”....
M.S.: If a statement could be signed
before a Notary Public to the effect
that the watch was the property of
your late husband and that it is
being sent to his brother in England
as a gift, it would be sufficient evi-
dence for the United Kingdom Com-
missioners of Customs and Excise.
... .G.R.: Mr. Keith Wingrove, 375
Esplanade, Henley Beach, Adelaide,
is, we understand, the present owner
of the original Norman Lindsay
pen-drawing called “Trio” which
was printed in The Bulletin in 1906.
He bought it when the William
Macleod Art Collection came up for
sale W.M.: Write W, S. Friend
and Cos., 192 Clarence-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.C.: The insertion of a few
elegant jawbreakers doesn’t really add
much to such an old theme... .8.W.:
Hit the ancient on the head....
W.J.K.: Merely dropping your “g’s”
won’t get you very far 8.T.P.:
Constant repetition of one word may
help to drive it home, but it also
bores the reader E.M.: Was yours
the MS. with the pink ribbon and
the gold lettering? G.S.C.: There
is an awful prejudice against
golden-haired waitresses who marry
millionaires H.T.C.: If you want
[Contributions shpuld not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
to write, nothing any critic can
say will stop you J.O’S.: One
of these days an intelligent dog is
going to write a story about a man.
Bellerive: Those were the days:
Recollections of the great Dartos, cele-
brated French dancers, who made their
debut before the Melbourne public in the
famous old colorful pantomime “Cin-
derella,” at the Princess Theatre, in which
the once brilliant Miss Nellie Stewart
starred, back in the stirring ’nineties.
While the strains of music
Did sweetly sound,
From the wings they
Did lightly bound.
They did glideth leap,
And on heels and toes,
Did step it out,
The great Dartos.
They did rapidly twirl
Before the footlights
A feature grand on
Old pantomime nights.
They capered, tumbled.
And did gracefully pose.
A big draw card was
The great Dartos.
P.M.: Now that you have got
that off your chest you should feel
a little better W.P.: “The Bullet”
missed the mark S.H.W.C.: That
rough bushman with the heart of
gold has been warned off before.
T.M.H.: The track from this
office to the G.P.O. is littered with
bones, skulls, dead sheep and the
carcasses of drought poems
N.N.S.: The only thing to do with
“My Hat” is to eat it EJ.C.:
Pleasant in an indefinite sort of way.


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
romantic book have now been sold. Its historical
and entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d. f post-free
Copies of "The letters of Rochel Henning"
are again available from "The Bulletin"
offices in Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth,
or from The Book Department, "The
Bulletin," Box 2521, G.P.O. Sydney.
Australian Historical Sketches
John Macarthur
Fires A Shot
By M. H. ELLIS
IT was in the spring of 1801
that Lieutenant - Colonel
Paterson, commanding the
New South Wales Corps and
Lieutenant - Governor of the
colony, set out to explore the
Hunter River. A born explorer,
a naturalist, a Fellow of the
Royal Society, he always found
it very hard to resist any chance
to wander abroad and acquire
new natural-history specimens.
But it can be wagered that had
he known what might happen in
his absence on this occasion
he would have stayed at home.
As it was, he went off gaily to the
north, and his journal of the
expedition, which still exists,
shows that he had what, by his
standards, was a very good time
on the journey.
Meantime, his second-in-
command being then out of the
colony, Captain John Macarthur
became his deputy, which
normally would not have caused
a ripple on the surface of events,
since Macarthur was the regi-
mental businessman and did
most of the work anyway.
However, Colonel Paterson
had not been gone long before
the good ship Marquis Corn-
wallis came in, her affairs in
charge of a haughty naval agent,
Lieutenant Marshall, R.N. The
ship brought a load of new con-
victs and the usual draft of the
N. S. Wales Corps which proved
to be short of an officer,
Lieutenant Crawford, who had
died at Rio.
Before he came ashore
Lieutenant Marshall (so it
appeared) informed the Corps
quartermaster that he had paid
a small debt which Lieutenant
Crawford had owed him by
exchanging that poor dead
subaltern’s gun and quilt for his
own to balance the account be-
tween them “in goodness.”
Captain Macarthur, when he
heard of the exchange, was
naturally uneasy, He was a man
given to action and little gifted
with tact when angry. Paterson
would probably have taken a
mild view. Macarthur had
Lieutenant Marshall called
before the local bench of magis-
trates. These Solons would' not
take it upon themselves to say
that the lieutenant had exhibited
any criminal intent, but
Governor King felt justified in
giving him a severe reprimand
for doing anything which should
have brought him under
suspicion. Macarthur was
present, and, Marshall obviously
showing some resentment, King
pointed out that the former
had only acted in accordance
with his duty. And then the
poor old man, having a bad cold,
retired to bed and hoped that
the trouble was all over.
+ +
Unfortunately naval officers
were arrogant fellows at the
opening of the 19th century.
Mr. Marshall lost no time in
seeking out Captain Macarthur
in the street and publicly insult-
ing him. It was even rumored
that he snapped his fingers under
the captain’s nose. He showed
great heat because he seems to
have blamed his adversary for
having led the Governor to order
him home in an early ship, but
after his altercation it seemed
that Captain Macarthur did not
wish him to go home at all. He
wished to keep him in N. S.
Wales underground and to
that end he sent Captain Edward
Abbott along to the peppery tar
with a challenge.
It was now Abbott’s turn to
be insulted when the monstrous
truth dawned upon him that Mr.
Marshall intended to use as a
second no less a person
than the second purser of
the Marquis Cornwallis. To
military officers of the Line
pursers were nearer to the cock-
roaches socially than to the
human race, apart from the
fact that some of them, parti-
cularly Captain Macarthur, had
had rather sad experiences with
a purser. And even though this
Mr. Jefferies was said to have
visited Macarthur’s house, Mr.
Abbott had since seen him serv-
ing behind the counter in the
ship’s shop ashore, and told
Marshall that he must get
another second who was his own
co - equal. Mr. Marshall’s
response to this was to lie in
wait for Captains Macarthur
and Abbott. He hit the latter
a “ of a lick with a thick
stick,” the sound of which was
heard half-way to Parramatta.
He then made menacing motions
towards the Squire of Elizabeth
Farm, which only ceased when
he discovered that officer to be
armed.
In very short order he found
himself before a criminal court
presided over by Lieutenant-
Colonel Paterson, who returned
to find the quarrel in full flame,
with four other military officers,
a naval officer and Judge-
Advocate Richard Atkins on the
bench. He was found guilty of
assault and battery on Captain
Abbott, for which he was
sentenced to pay a fine of £5O
and spend 12 months in Sydney
jail.
A special verdict was found
on the charge of assaulting
Macarthur. The Governor was
not quite satisfied with the pro-
ceedings which were impugned
in complaints by Marshall. He
therefore asked that the court
reconvene that it might investi-
gate Marshall’s complaints,
“afford the most unequivocal
justice to the prisoner,” and
enable him to judge whether
Marshall should have the benefit
of the Royal mercy. But the
court indignantly refused to have
anything more to do with the
matter, and so a new quarrel
arose between its members and
the Governor, a naval officer
almost more peppery than
Marshall himself.
King at once shouted that he
would report them all to the
Secretary for War and the
Colonies. Soon there was a fine
wrangle in progress as to
whether the accused had been
denied his proper right to chal-
lenge a member of the court
and whether so-and-so had done
or had not done this and some-
body else that. Everybody be-
came heartily tangled in the
mazes of the English laws,
including Judge - Advocate
Atkins, who, as usual in crises,
became tangled up with large
quantities of brandy and spruce
beer, anodynes which were apt to
affect both his clarity as a
counsel and the stability of his
interior. He held, however, “that
in all cases of moment where
justice is not done upon one
trial, the injured party is entitled
to another.” And Captain King
believed that if there was any
truth in Marshall’s complaints
he was certainly an injured man.
So he remitted his sentence,
ordered him home to await
events under recognisances, and
proceeded to write his reports to
the War Office on the conduct of
the officers.
At this stage there was a
further complication. Captain
Macarthur reminded King that
he had kept him informed from
the first of events as they
occurred, and that in most of the
circumstances he had “had the
honor to receive your advice,
that throughout the whole affair
he had acted so “as to obtain
your Excellency’s entire and
perfect approbation.” More-
over, he said that when he had
retailed the story of the assault
the Governor had “expressed
your approbation of the delicacy
of my behavior,” and also
“abhorrence of Lieutenant
Marshall’s proceeding, accom-
panied by advice to bring him
immediately before a criminal
court.” This the Governor
denied * “To refute this foul
attempt it is only necessary to
refer, to his letter, my reply and
his corroborations” which,
incidentally, seem to favor
Macarthur’s version.
Thus, by this time almost
everyone of note in the com-
mand of the colony was in holts
over the matter except Colonel
Paterson; and now it was his
turn.
+ +
Macarthur became enraged
with King. He sought violently
to divide him from Paterson by
begging the latter not to visit the
Governor and, so it was said,
threatening, if Paterson did not
comply with his wish, to “divulge
all their private and public con-
versations, correspondence and
transactions.” It was at this
point that King heard rumors
that “the colonel had written a
letter td Sir Joseph Banks,
reflecting on my too great
economy having occasioned the
present scarcity,” and that Mac-
arthur had corrected and revised
this document; furthermore
that a public letter had been
written to the War Office making
harsh reflections upon his con-
duct of the Marshall affair.
Investigation soon proved
these rumors true. Paterson pro-
duced the letters, and King said
that he had no difficulty in per-
suading him of the unfounded
tenor of the suggestions which
they contained. The poor
naturalist was a weak fellow,
and, in any case. King felt no
qualms about forgiving him,
since one glance at the corres-
pondence showed that he had
been acting “in- this dark trans-
action” as the instrument of one
whom it was easy to identify.
The two victims, Governor and
Lieutenant - Governor, almost
embraced as they assured each
other of their mutual goodwill.
They agreed to dine together.
Macarthur’s chagrin was per-
haps natural. He was blamed
now for exposing the private and
domestic correspondence of his
household with the Paterson
family to the public gaze. This
put Paterson in a very bad light.
Soon the Governor heard that
he had successfully instigated the
officers of the Corps to refuse
to have any further intercourse
with Government House, and at
once sent an invitation on Sep-
tember 13, 1801, to every officer
except Macarthur to join him in
celebrating the 40th anniversary
of King George Ill’s coronation.
All except four accepted.
In the meantime, on the day
after the invitations were issued,
the Governor set out blithely for
the Hawkesbury, only to be
pulled up sharp the same after-
noon at Parramatta with the
news that John Macarthur had
shot Colonel Paterson in the left
breast, and that it looked as if he
might never live to explore
another river. Hastening home,
the poor distressed Viceroy
found the town in an uproar.
Macarthur was impenitent;
Captain Piper had nothing to say
about having let him load his
pistols because they were defec-
tive ; Captain Neil McKellar was
righteous about the fact that he
had carried Paterson’s challenge
to Macarthur. Paterson was not
out of danger, and was due for
censure for having challenged
one of his officers. And poor
old King didn’t know whether to
court-martial the lot of them
(including Paterson, if he lived).
Led to do the wrong thing, as
nearly always in his dealings with
the military, he first placed Mac-
arthur and the seconds under
house arrest, but finally ordered
Macarthur for duty at Norfolk
Island, to which isolated spot he
showed not the slightest intention
of going.
While Paterson and McKellar
meekly gave securities for keep-
ing the peace, Macarthur and
Piper defiantly told the Reverend
Mr. Marsden, the magistrate at
Parramatta, that they “had no
objection to give bail for their
appearance before a criminal
court when called upon, but that
they would give no bond to keep
the peace until an information
was lodged against them on oath
that they intended to break the
peace.” So Captain Piper was
committed to jail, having left his
place of arrest, while Captain
Macarthur positively refused to
come out of arrest, offered to do
duty while under it, and
demanded a general court-
martial.
King, of course, knew exactly
what the result of a court-martial
on such a subject would be. Be-
sides, the legal difficulties were
insuperable, since he felt himself
to be in the position of both
prosecutor and appeal judge.
There seemed nothing to do but
to give up in despair and send
Macarthur and all the papers
with him to England and to allow
the Home Government to cope
with him —if it coulcj.
So, as a result of Lieutenant-
Colonel Paterson having gone
trapsing off to the Hunter River,
there was set-off a train of
events, in the finale of which
Macarthur went to England.
Local opinion was that he
“would get the better of them,
since it was the colonel who
called him out.” He did.
On the way to England he fell
in with Sir Robert Farquhar, in
hot water over his government
of Amboyna, saved him a lot of
trouble by his advice, and
earned the gratitude of his father,
the King’s physician, who be-
came his close personal friend.
He arrived satisfied to know
that the papers dealing with his
case had been lost during the
voyage—though not by him.
He found English commerce
contemplating N. S. Wales as a
substitute for Spain as the pro-
ducer country of the raw wool
on which the English weaving
industry survived. He had little
difficulty in impressing his per-
sonality on the Government,
which was not very much -
worried whether he had killed
Colonel Paterson or not. The
only inconvenience which he
suffered came later, during the
Bligh rebellion interregnum,
when he seemed to feel unwilling
to trust himself in Paterson’s
hands, though by that time they
bore each other little grudge
openly.
For the present he was satisfied
to take command of the wool
situation in London as the only
man who had a constructive
plan, to call those, including his
arch-enemy Hunter, to testify to
all the virtues in him which they
previously had vehemently
denied. And presently he came
sailing back gloriously to New
South Wales, untried, in his own
ship, the Argo, the order for the
grant of the Camden Park lands
in his pocket.
+ +
King had sent Macarthur
away “confident of justice being
done,” and resting his “con-
fidence in the Supreme Dispenser
of events.” His main objective
was to get rid of him for ever.
He went completely out of
control whenever he thought of
him:
Experience has convinced every man
in this colony that there are no re-
sources which art, cunning, im-
pudence and a pair of basilisk eyes
can afford that he does not put in
practice to obtain any point he
undertakes.,. .Had I aUowed Captain
Macarthur to direct the concerns of
this colony, and Col. Paterson had
allowed him to command the regi-
ment, this perturbator would have
remained sa. far in silence as first to
turn the surrender to his own advan-
tage.
The Governor had even con-
templated calling Macarthur out
himself with a view to killing
him, and said that Hunter had
felt the same. And he remarked
that “if Captain Macarthur
returns here in any official
character it should be as Gov-
ernor, as one-half of the colony
already belongs to him, and it
will not be long before he gets
the other half.” He made it
clear that he hoped that he would
never see him again.
Yet, now, here was Macarthur
returned home, not in an official
capacity, for he had resigned his
commission, but the uncrowned
arbiter of progress in N. S.
Wales, the Argonaut of the new
Golden Fleece. King fawned on
him.
That poor old “bonne homme
Paterson” didn’t. He had been
exiled to the command at Port
Dalrymple, in Van Diemen’s
Land, down among the Tas-
manian devils, whence he was
carrying on a not-too-stately
argument with Colonel Collins
in Hobart-town, He never fully
recovered from the events which
stemmed from his trip to the
Hunter in 1801.


Malenkov: the
machine that walks
like a man
Georgi Maximilianovich
Malenkov, who succeeded Stalin
as the Kremlin ruler, has
moved along the road to power
with the ruthlessness of a
robot, purging any rival in his
path.
In July Reader’s Digest, read
Andre Visson’s grim portrait
of the man whose fat, hairless
hands now control the lives of
almost one third of the world’s
people, and direct the cold war.
Also in July Reader’s Digest
—2B other stimulating articles
condensed from world’s leading
magazines and current books.
July Reader’s Digest on sale
now —one shilling and sixpence
at all newsagents and book-
stalls.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Main racing scene this coming
weekend will be the B.A.T.C.’s
Doomben track, where the first
leg of that club’s rich winter
double, the Ten Thousand, will
be run over seven furlongs, less
93yds. Presence of the brilliant
Sydney sprinter Karendi in the
field has reduced the acceptance-
list, as most owners appear
satisfied that their horses stand
a lean chance of downing the
warm favorite for the sprint,
winner at his last three starts oh
Sydney courses.
Karendi mightn’t hold the
mortgage anticipated. Others
have shown just as good, even
superior, form in better-class
races. Karendi, at 7.10, has a
handy pull in the weights, and
this might be the main factor,
but Pure Fire, Rotate, True
Leader, Suncup and last-start
Brisbane winner Coniston have
sprinting ability beyond the
ordinary. Any one of them
could make it interesting for
Karendi —if they can catch him.
Speed could win the Ten
Thousand, and Karendi prob-
ably is the fastest Sydney horse
in training. He may win from
Suncup and Pure Fire.
Coniston’s brilliant success in
the five-furlongs Lightning
Handicap at Ascot (the Q.T.C.’s
track) in race- and track-record
time of 59| seconds indicates
that he is right back to the form
which enabled him to win the
1951 Ten Thousand, He
defeated the Sydney pair La
Hey and True Leader and gave
the ringmen a real tum-up,
scoring at 25 to 1. The sprint
was regarded as a trial for the
big event at Doomben this
Saturday, and Coniston is now a
popular choice. However, he
will meet much better horses this
Saturday, and will have to be at
his best to repeat his latest
success.
In winning the Sandgate
Handicap at the Q.T.C. meeting
at Ascot, Sydney middle-distance
galloper Ben Bow drew attention
to his prospects in the Doomben
Cup, to be run next Saturday
week. The £BOOO Cup has
attracted a top-class field repre-
senting three States. Ben Bow,
successful before going to Bris-
bane, is now third-favorite for
the Cup. Ben Bow carried 7.8
last Saturday, and drops to 7.1
in the Doomben Cup, but in
Hydrogen and Alinga he will
meet the strongest opposition of
his career, and Alinga has only
31b. more than he has in the big
race.
• • • •
Toshah, a strongly-built New
Zealand-bred two-year-old, the
winner of three races in Bris-
bane, ihcluding the Hopeful
Stakes, showed his class in the
Warwick Farm Caspla Handi-
cap, winning with 9st., after
being no further back than
second at any stage. The colt
has been in Maurice McCarten’s
Randwick stable for a brief
period only and can be improved
in condition. He is a son
of Pherozshah (imp.) from
Neglectful by Lang Bian (imp.)
from Forgetfulness by Buland-
shar (imp.). A second foal, he
is descended from Shirley, a
winner of 14 New Zealand
races, including the Great Easter
Handicap.
• • • •
Cold Shower, winner of the
A.J.C. All Aged Stakes (w.-f.-a.)
and a son of imported Mid-
stream, is sire of Warwick Farm
surprise Maiden winner Cold
Spray, who made a sharp form
improvement. When offered as
a yearling at the 1951 Randwick
sales the colt was passed in at
350gns. He is now raced by
Rosehill ownsr-trainer L. V.
Eaves. Ettyann, dam of the
youngster, is by Rampion from
Budgery Mary by Magpie (imp.).
Cold Spray is related to Manna,
a winner of the English Derby
and Two Thousand Guineas.
The manner of his win was
rather impressive. He was 20
lengths from the leaders at the
half-mile, but mowed them down
over the final furlong.
After 50-to-l winners had
taken two of the first three races
at Warwick Farm the book-
makers were feeling in high glee*
but favorites won. three of the
last four events, and the other
winner. First Century, was third-
favorite and a costly result for
them in the L. G. Fraser Handi-
cap. That mile-and-three was
named after Les Fraser, an
A.J.C. racing official for many
years, who was at the meeting
to see the race run. Now retired
from his official job, he had a
modest investment on the
winner.
Two cheap yearlings won races
on Saturday Truthfulness
(120gns.) at Ascot, Brisbane, and
One Rose (160gns.) at Warwick
Farm. J, Crompton, who races
Truthfulness in partnership with
Mrs. C. Garment, bought the
filly at Randwick. A Confessor
(imp.) youngster from Kismet
by Bulandshar (imp.) from Inch-
keith by Musketoon (imp.), she
is a close relative of High Play,
winner of 25 races in New
Zealand and Victoria, including
the V.R.C. Standish Handicap.
One Rose is a daughter of
Bourbon, a stayer of some years
back, winner of a Randwick
Plate and V.R.C. Handicap, as
well as being a Melbourne Cup
runner-up. Anne, dam of One
Rose, is a Winooka mare from
Ann Veronica by Sir Dighton
(imp.).
• • • •
Engraver, second-favorite and
winner of the Moonee Valley
First Piccaninny Handicap, is by
imported Copper Plate, who has
had a few winners on Melbourne
courses. He is an interesting sire
from one particular viewpoint—
he didn’t race. This was because
of an injury received when he
was well advanced in his racing
preparation. Probably one of the
best-bred sires in these parts, he
is related to such famous stallions
as Sir Galahad 111, Bull Dog,
Bois Roussel and Admiral Drake.
He is by Fair Copy from
Thomyris by a successful French
sire Tracy Le Val from Noor
Jahan by Teddy (French Derby
and St. Leger and an outstanding
stud success in France).
• • • • •
For the Grand National
Hurdle at Flemington this com-
ing Saturday Gunshot, winner of
two successive events over
hurdles, is the popular choice.
He can stay well and has ability
over hurdles. Iron Monarch,
placed in last year’s race, Gay
Ghost, Pearl’s Choice and
Xenurus, winner at Moonee
Valley last Saturday, are others
fancied.
Lightly weighted horses have
had most to do with the finish of
Melbourne’s Grand National
Hurdle in recent years, which
indicates that the class is not up
to that of former seasons. There
isn’t likely to be another Cheery
Jack (11.7) Pooley Bridge (11.3)
or Fiscom (11.6) in the race this
Saturday. Further back in the
winning records appear such
names as Obi (11.7), Red Leap
(11.12) and Don Quixote (11.13).
Lastnamed two were ridden by
amateurs in the Grand National
Hurdle, Mr. W. S. Cox, a noted
name in Melbourne turf history.
“Mum says not t' play with him — he's a bad character.”
rode Red Leap in both his
National successes—he had won
earlier with 9.8 —and Mr. Glass-
cock was successful on Don
Quixote. Race record for the
three miles is 5.28.
Incidentally, the fastest three
miles on the flat in Australia,
smin. 22|secs., stands to the
credit of that famous stayer of
other years, Trafalgar, but there
are no races on the flat at three
miles these days, for which race-
goers truly are thankful.
• • • •
Before racing began at
Warwick Farm on Saturday the
A.J.C.’s chief stipendiary
steward, Jim Donohoe, called
turf writers into the stewards’-
room and explained the new set-
up permitting Press representa-
tives to attend inquiries by
stewards. The room is far too
small to accommodate more than
half a dozen turf writers, but
that will be the maximum attend-
ance at most inquiries. Press-
men were able to note questions
and answers from the stipes and
jockeys, but Saturday was a mild
day from the news point of view.
The scheme got away to a good
start, and the public will get
items of importance and general
interest at future race meetings.
However, it will mean judicious
reporting, because the arrange-
ment hasn’t the legal backing of
N.S.W. Parliament —so far. In
Queensland attendance of Press-
men at stewards’ inquiries is a
law of the land, which seems an
entirely different set-up.
In the absence of his book-
maker-owner, Jack 3haw, who is
on his way home to Sydney from
an overseas trip, the two-year-
old Chateau Roussel (imp.) colt
Count Roussel opened his win-
ning account at Hawkesbury’s
meeting, starting at 9 to I—odds1 —odds
that mightn’t have been available
had the owner been present.
Count Roussel scored in such
good style that he could soon
add to his winnings. Costing
ISOOgns. as a yearling, the colt is
from a sister to Londoner, a
good winner in country districts
of Victoria (12 successes) in
addition to wins at Flemington
and on other Melbourne courses.
Philgita, dam of Count Roussel,
was well known on Sydney
tracks a few seasons ago, when
she won several races up to nine
furlongs. She is by Piccadilly
(imp.) from Fairy Mag by
Magpie (imp.).
When the grey filly Morgeana
began racing in Sydney at two
years, and was placed at her first
two starts, both at Canterbury,
she raised hopes that she would
prove top-class. But she went
through that season without
being placed again in eight
starts. Charlie Cullen trained her
at Randwick for Dr. R, H.
Bettington and Mrs. G. Chap-
man. Morgeana. subsequently
found her way to Brisbane, where
she is now raced by H. H. Arm-
strong. Now a three-year-old,
she opened her winning account
at Albion Park, beating a weak
Maiden field.
When a racehorse with a stay-
ing background is not raced
much in early life he generally
lasts long on the turf. For
example, veteran Sydney stayer
Silver Buzz ran only once at two
years, and that was at Rosehill
in February, 1946, more than
seven years ago. Costing 700gns.
as a yearling. Silver Buzz has
proved a good buy, as he won
(among other races) the 1950
Brisbane Cup (£B4OO, plus £315
cup). He was a five-year-old
when he won his first race, a
Randwick mile-and-a-half En-
courage in January, 1949; it’s
rarely a horse wins his first race
at 12 furlongs. Now raced by
Mr. j and Mrs. Fred Bowes, the
gelding hasn’t won since Decem-
ber, 1951, but trainer Jack Miller
has the veteran fit, and he might
soon land an easy mile-and-a-
quarter race. He has been
placed at latest starts.
New-chum owners should not
make a practice of going to race-
tracks in the early mornings to
see their horses in fast training-
gallops. They are bound to be
disappointed, and not occasion-
ally. It is not always the
swallow-catching galloper that
wins the race on the Saturday,
though time is an important
factor when, assessing prospects,
more particularly when a horse
is known for reliability after
recording winning-time. But
quite a number of the brilliant
trackworkers leave their gallops
on the tracks; when Saturday
comes they finish down the run-
ning. Owners should leave the
training to the man in charge of
their horses, as relying on the
one who has most to do with the
horse brings right results if the
animal is good enough to win.
Owners should remember there
is always the chance of their
“idol of the turf world” being
allowed (?) to beat a companion
in an early morning track work-
out just to send them home to
steak-and-eggs in high glee and
with the urge to have a solid bet
on the Saturday. However, few
trainers will take a chance this
way or resort to such practices.
The experience of most owners
who make occasional visits to the
early-morning sessions has been
that blankets are much more
cosy than being rugged-up with
heavy clothes on the race-tracks
at 6 a.m. in the winter months.
* * *
Following the drawn Test at
Nottingham (England was held
to have had a “moral victory”
there), the Huttons and Hassetts
lined-up again at Lord’s. The
English selectors made three
changes (Brown, Statham and
Watson for Simpson, May and
Tattersall) and the Australians
two (Ring and Langley for Hill
and Tallon). Whatever the line-
up in any of the Tests it’s safe to
say that the two sides, as in the
first two Tests, will be pretty
evenly matched.
Brown is the first chairman of
the English selection-committee
to play in a Test during his term
of office. Brown skippered Eng-
land against Australia here in
1950-51, and against S. Africa
in England in 1951. Doubts
were expressed when he was
picked in 1950 —on his only
previous visit to Australia, with
Jardine’s 1932 “bodyline” side,
he hadn’t done much —but as an
all-rounder he more than pulled
his weight in both the series.
Hassett is another who has
silenced his critics. After a lean
period in the early Tests against
South Africa, some wanted him
left out of the side for England;
but a century in each of the first
two Tests has surely earned him
his trip. As well, his all-round
leadership, both on and off the
field, has been sound and
capable.
* * *
In South Africa, where they
take their football seriously,
newspapers have been denounc-
ing the Wallabies’ use of alu-
minium studs. But, then, de-
nunciation of one thing or
another is a normal function of
newspapers. So far the Aus-
tralians have had one defeat and
two wins, including the win
against a Transvaal team, score
20-18.
Sydney Rugby Union leaders,
Eastern Suburbs, beat Parra-
matta 12-8 on Saturday, and
East’s captain, Perc Newton,
played his 252nd game—a
record. In other games Manly
beat Randwick, 19-12; Uni-
versity beat Drummoyne, 19-6;
Eastwood beat Northern
Suburbs, 22-3 ; Gordon beat St.
George, 18-9.
♦ * ♦
Geelong, undefeated this
season, is now the “glamor”
team of the V.F.L., 32,500 fol-
lowing the side to Carlton oval,
just twice as many as went to
North Melbourne for the match-
of-the-day. It would have
astonished the most ardent Blues
follower if Carlton had won,
whereas North Melbourne and
Footscray were playing for a
place in “the four.” It ended
Geelong 10.14, Carlton 8.15;
Footscray 5.12, North M. 3.7.
Geelong (40 points) is far in
front of the V.F.L. field, with
Footscray and Essendon next on
28, then Collingwood, North
Melbourne, South Melbourne
and Fitzroy on 24, St. Kilda and
Hawthorn on 8, Melbourne and
Richmond on 4. Earlier Foot-
scray was second, but lost a
couple of close finishes to drop
to fourth, and is now back, just
behind the Dons on percentages.
The Dons beat Collingwood,
11.14-6.16, on Saturday, South
beat Richmond, 12.7-6.14,
Hawthorn walloped Melbourne,
16.6-10.14, and Fitzroy beat St.
Kilda, 11.9-7.10.
ELEMENTARY
I have small hands as strong as
steel;
I’m in the bantam group
For size: I’m vigorous and fee 1 -
I’d make a first-class hoop.
I envy jockeys their snug lives,
Their favors, fees and fame ;
It seems that any lightweight
thrives
Upon the racing game.
And I consider it no jest
Or rash extravagance
To reckon that I’d heat the best
Of them with half the chance.
And, anyway, supposing my
Conceit, in fact, proved thin.
At least I’d learn the reason why
The nags I back don’t win!
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


As They Were and Are
Mental Hospitals
BY A SYDNEY PSYCHIATRIST
THE patients in mental
hospitals have had no
Dickens, no orator to risk
unpopularity and greatness
by pressing their claims to
skilled care and optimum condi-
tions for recovery. Only
spasmodic public outcries have
helped to improve their lot.
From the beginning, the
organisation and atmosphere of
a mental hospital have been that
of a giant barracks: thick, high
walls; barred gates; cheerless
utilitarian furniture; comfort-
less rooms, their natural gloom
accentuated by escape-proof
windows and the lowering shrubs
outside; a smell of disin-
fectants . . .
So it is today.
There has always been in the
public mind a strong suspicion
of the administration of mental
hospitals, and that suspicion is
heartily reciprocated by the
authorities. Thus, the high
walls, the forbidding of staff to
talk to outsiders, the prevention
of entry by unauthorised
persons. Even articles on
medical subjects, written by
medical officers for publication
in medical journals, must be sub-
mitted for censorship before
publication. It has always
seemed strange to me that
mental-hospital administrators,
trained students of human be-
havior, should fail to realise that
things hidden away always
arouse suspicion.
At all events, to understand
the mental hospital of today (in
N. S. Wales, for instance) one
has to think back to when
insanity in a family was regarded
(as it still is to some extent) as
a particularly crushing disgrace.
Then, the unfortunate individual
was “put away” in some such
place as Bedlam, and that was
an end to him.
Abuses in such places were
grave. Unwanted persons could
be imprisoned without proper
legal safeguards; officials could
be bribed ; women inmates were
the prey of warders; the death-
rate was high. Things became
so bad that Parliament was
forced to move, and, in 1815,
a Parliamentary committee
investigated conditions in
English “madhouses.” From
their frank report an important
series of amendments to the
existing Act (of 1808) followed:
the full effect, however, was not
felt until 1824.
The whole loose and corrupt
system was uprooted. 'Hie
emphasis was on the prevention
of abuses. Before a patient could
be admitted he had to be certified
insane by two legally-qualified
medical practitioners. These
doctors could not be partners,
nor could they be related to the
patient within certain stipulated
degrees of kinship. The medical
superintendent was held respon-
sible, under pain of severe
penalties, for the strict legality
of all admissions, and he was
bound to discharge a patient
who recovered sanity.
Also, a Board of Official
Visitors was appointed to each
asylum. Its members were
required to make visits without
warning and at irregular periods.
They inspected all books and
every patient, and had authority
to discharge patients.
The affairs of a certified
person were vested in the
Master-in-Lunacy, who acted as
trustee, with fees fixed by law.
He had no power to confiscate
estates: a discharged patient
took over his own affairs ; if an
inmate died his executors took
over his estate in the normal
manner; if he died intestate the
laws of intestacy applied.
The office exists today; and
time has shown the wisdom of
establishing an impartial
authority to deal with a certified
person’s estate (unfortunately,
many relatives are only too
anxious to take advantage of a
patient’s mental infirmities). In
practice, the Master-in-Lunacy
handles his wards’ property ably,
and with scrupulous fairness.
With some modifications, the
reforms of 1815-24 are the basis
of the Lunacy Act in force now.
From the present-day point of
view, however, it seems unfor-
tunate that the whole administra-
tion of mental hospitals was
placed on a legal basis (with the
intention of correcting and pre-
venting abuses), while the
medical side, per se, was a
secondary consideration. This
legal and administrative bias
prevails still.
In fairness to the early-day
authorities, it must be pointed
out that they had no conception
of mental disease such as we
have today. To them an
person was simply mad, arid if he
was clothed and fed and pre-
vented from escaping, all con-
cerned had more than done their
duty.
Then, about 80 years ago,
Kraepelin, in Germany, made
his famous classification,
diagnosing and describing such
mental diseases as melancholia,
mania and dementia prsecox
(now known as schizophrenia).
He was the father of psychiatry.
But his teachings had the effect
of making the treatment in men-
tal hospitals mechanical. For
example, once a patient was
diagnosed as melancholia, he
was, ipso facto, suicidal; and
all precautions against an
attempted suicide were taken.
Similarly, if a patient was
diagnosed as dementia pnecox,
the prognosis was automatically
hopeless, and all that was done
was to place him in a ward and
let him dement there. If a
patient had once been homicidal,
or an escapee, he was always a
potential homicidal or escapee.
The influence of Kraepelin’s
teaching can be seen even today:
some psychiatrists maintain that
once a person is a homosexual
he is always a homosexual. All
a medical superintendent had to
do was to diagnose a case
according to Kraepelin’s classi-
fication, and, like well-oiled
machinery, the rest followed.
There was little opportunity for
initiative, an outcome being that
medical men of active and
inquiring minds have resigned.
The number of brilliant men who
have left mental-hospital work
over the years in the British
Empire has been tragic.
It is an extraordinary fact
that, while England has pro-
duced the most brilliant workers
in other branches of medicine,
and especially in neurology (the
study of diseases of the brain),
not one revolutionary research in
mental diseases has originated in
England. Traditionalism and
departmentalism have been too
strong. British mental-hospital
authorities have always been
timid of research work, fearing,
above all, the accusation of
experimenting on patients.
It is possible to sympathise
with that outlook ; but the result
has been that there is usually a
considerable time-lag before new
treatments are introduced into
mental hospitals in the British
countries in general, and in Aus-
tralia in particular. If new treat-
ment is introduced it has to have
been well-tried elsewhere; the
idea that we should initiate new
methods in our own mental
hospitals is unthinkable.
The work of Freud was chiefly
responsible for the beneficial
change from Kraepelin’s dog-
matic and inflexible teaching,
and especially in shifting the
emphasis to the study of the
individual patient. Freud’s
theories were based on the
premise that our actions,
conduct, speech, were products
of conflicts, repressed emotions
and incidents buried in the sub-
conscious mind. In cases of
abnormality, it was argued, if
these significant memories could
be recalled the patient could be
cured.
Whatever else Freud’s theories
implied, it followed that the
application of them meant an
intensive, individual examination
and treatment of the patient. His
theories, also, have not stood the
test of time—but the stimulus
they gave to psychiatry was
terrific. The influence of
psychoanalysis, however, did not
stop there. With many it be-
came a religion; and it has
spawned some curious children.
Schools of psychology, great and
small, developed and multiplied.
Intelligence tests, psychometric
tests, and the special claims of
psychologists to advise people in
sexual and marital matters, in
rearing a child and choosing a
career, have laid a powerful hold
on the popular imagination.
That apart, for the past 40
years more enlightened views of
the treatment of insane patier ts
have gained influence. It has
been recognised that some insane
patients could recover, and the
many elaborate precautions
against suicide, homicide, etc.,
have been modified. Admission-
wards have been built away from
the main hospital blocks. Even
so, in these wards strict precau-
tions were maintained ; patients
were still under observation day
and night, all liberty denied, food
monotonous and standardised,
patients dressed in mental-
hospital clothing.
Admission-wards have gradu-
ally improved over the years,
but, with rare exceptions, the
tendency has been to destroy the
individuality of the patient by
the precautions to guard him
from physical harm.
Now, as experience and know-
ledge accumulate, we are find-
ing out that many obscure and
many acute mental diseases have
a toxic cause ; this is why the
aid of physicians, pathologists
and other experts must be called
in by psychiatrists. It also
explains why many mental
patients who once died in mental
hospitals can now be cured in
general hospitals.
It is also known that disease
or injury of the brain itself can
produce mental disease of many
kinds. The first sign of a tumor
of the brain, for instance, may
be a delusionary state. A head
injury may cause a great variety
of mental and nervous
symptoms. Alcohol, taken over
a long period and with insuf-
ficient food, may cause a degen-
eration of the cells of the brain.
The possibility of recovery in
these patients depends on
whether the cause is curable, and
whether the damaged brain-cells
can recover.
We now recognise, too, that
many forms of mental disease
are caused by bodily disease ; but
this diagnosis requires a highly-
specialised team of neurologists,
physicians, radiologists, surgeons,
pathologists and others. Patients
who once died in mental
hospitals undiagnosed are now
successfully treated in neuro-
surgical clinics and in general
hospitals.
But the number of those who
have a definite, known cause for
their mental disease is still com-
paratively small. There remain
a vast number (including melan-
cholics, maniacs and especially
schizophrenics) the cause of
whose condition is entirely
unknown. Years of experience,
however, indicate that there
must be a definite physical cause
for many of these conditions, if
only we could discover it.
Medical men have become
increasingly interested in certain
types of patients; this applies
particularly to epileptics. In
mental hospitals the treatment of
epileptics has been largely con-
ditioned by fear of the patient
injuring himself. Such an
accident as an epileptic being
smothered by pillows or drowned
in a bath is very gravely
regarded ; consequently, the staff
is kept in a state of nervous
tension which, subtly but
inevitably, is communicated to
the patients, who then become
nervous and more troublesome
than they would be otherwise.
In actual experience many
epileptics —some of them doctors
—lead quite active and useful
lives in the outside world. Many
epileptics have been attending
out-patient clinics for years
without ill effects. Furthermore,
it is now recognised \that
epilepsy is not a disease but a
symptom of a disease. Its
causes are legion, ranging from
tumor of the brain to drug-
addiction. If the cause can be
discovered and treated, the
epileptic condition disappears.
But, as the cause in so many
cases is unknown, and as there
are many epileptics in mental
hospitals who have never been
studied and classified, the need
for research in these places is
abundantly clear. In other
words, each patient needs to be
treated individually, and not
en masse, as is being done at
present. Some years ago, in fact,
it was realised that these patients
could be treated successfully in
epileptic colonies (there is one
in Victoria), where the precau-
tions taken in mental hospitals
were found to be unnecessary.
The time will come when only
the more serious types of
epilepsy will be treated in mental
hospitals.
Mental deficiency, too, is a
symptom, not a disease. There
are many causes ; and there is, as
well, the mysterious RH factor:
cases are on record of two
parents producing mental defec-
tive after mental defective, but
if they marry again the children
born to the new partners are
normal.
In mental hospitals the tradi-
tion has been to consider mental
defectives as potentially
dangerous, particularly in the
sexual sense. Male mental defec-
tives were thought to be liable
to attack girls, to acts of homo-
sexuality, and so on. Until very
recent times little attempt was
made to educate them.
It has, however, become
increasingly plain that if the
higher-grade mental defectives
are thrown more and more on
their own resources they
approach more and more the
normal. Many mental defectives
who have been placed in mental
hospitals and have later been
taken out by relatives have
improved so dramatically that
they have become entirely self-
supporting.
Years ago the N.S.W. Educa-
tion Department became
interested in the problem of
mentally-defective children and
started special courses for them,
and special schools. It even
established a boarding-school
for subnormal children.
Religious organisations have
also become interested: the John
of God brothers, for instance,
started a special institution in
N.S.W. and now have hundreds
on their waiting-list. In both
these instances the initiative
should have come from the
mental hospitals.
Further, though practically
every form of mental disease,
rare glandular disorders and
anatomical defects are to be
found in our mental hospitals,
no serious attempt has been
made by the authorities con-
cerned to study these patients,
nor has encouragement been
given to outside scientists to take
over the task. Yet it is only by
a close and patient study of these
abnormalities that medical
scientists can hope to hit upon
some fundamental biological
truth. • . ,
That something can be done
for some of these patients has
been proved by the Spastic
Centre. Spastic children are to
be found in mental hospitals;
and nothing much was done for
children thus afflicted until, only
a few years ago, a group of
devoted parents got together
and, it is no exaggeration
to say, worked wonders.
The project has appealed to the
public imagination, and help,
chiefly in the form of volunteer
labor, has come from all parts of
the community. The Spastic
Centre at Mosman is well on
the way to the success its
founders had in mind from the
beginning; but why should this
work have been left to the
initiative of a few parents?
These and other instances
demonstrate that mental
hospitals in N.S.W. have
allowed the initiative to pass
from them to outsiders. In
increasing measure the better-
type patient is being taken away
from them, and they are receiv-
ing more hopeless cases. This
process will continue. Thirty
or forty years ago far-sighted
administrators of other hospitals
anticipated it. They believed
that many of the mental-hospital
precautions and prohibitions
were not necessary in the treat-
ment of a great number of
patients, and they have been
proved correct in their judgment.
For some years delusional
patients, depressed ones, and
even patients suffering from
melancholia have been treated
in out-patient departments.
One aspect of this develop-
ment has been the founding of
psychiatric clinics, which
patients enter voluntarily; no
need, therefore, for certification.
Borderline cases and the
neuroses have mainly been
treated. The first of these clinics
in a British country was
Maudsley Hospital, London; in
Australia, Broughton Hall was
established in 1921.
Broughton Hall was fortunate
in its first superintendent, Dr.
Sidney Evan Jones, a genius as
an administrator and one of the
most skilful psychiatrists Aus-
tralia has produced. With no
one to teach him, and obliged
to learn painfully and slowly by
trial and error, Evan Jones
was largely responsible for
Broughton Hall’s international
reputation.
Admission of voluntary
patients to mental hospitals was
(Continued on page 34)


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMAN DANGER
The following survey not only
explains why refugees continue
to pour into Western Germany
from the Soviet zone; it also
gives a pretty fair indication of
why those who remain have
tried to rise in revolt against
their Russian masters.
“The outside world cannot
afford to look on passively while
the problem of the German
refugees continues to fester. The
situation has serious political
implications, for it is among
frustrated and deteriorating
humanity that the indoctrinators
of neo-Nazism and political ex-
tremism of all kinds find their
adherents.”
Naturally sharing that “Man-
chester Guardian” view. West
German Chancellor Adenauer
appealed to East Germans:
“Any German in the Soviet
zone who is not directly threat-
ened in life and limb renders
Germany and the whole of the
West the highest service when
he stays where he is. If hun-
dreds of thousands flee, then
hundreds of thousands of others
will follow in their wake—and
they will be Russians and Asians.
Every German who stays de-
fends a bit both of Germany
and of the Western world. I
hope that the West will under-
stand how grave a problem is
involved —and also that it is its
own problem, too.”
Ever since 1945, “Manchester
Guardian” points out, Western
Germany has had to support
nearly nine million people from
the provinces beyond the Oder.
Refugees form about a third of
West Germany’s million and a
quarter unemployed ; hundreds
of thousands of them are exist-
ing miserably in mass camps ;
and about 125,000 refugee
peasant families are still land-
less and condemned to various
degrees of idleness.
Last year (New York “Herald
Tribune” report) 100,000 espaped
from East to West. As a London
“Times” correspondent points
out, they would “complicate the
position if Russia were to re-
impose the Berlin blockade.”
“Few people outside Ger-
many,” comments London
“Daily Telegraph,” “realise the
social problem which the Bonn
Government has had to face in
making room for newcomers. Of
‘expellees’ alone —that is, of
Germans dispossessed by the
Poles and other Iron Curtain
countries —they have had to
accommodate eight million, as
many as the population of Aus-
tralia. Voluntary migrants from
the Russian; zone, plus non-
German political refugees or dis-
placed persons from other parts
of Eastern Europe, must now
amount to nearly another two
million. One person in five in
the Federal Republic is there
because he or she is not allowed
to live or does not wish to live
under a Communist dictator-
ship.”
“For West Germany,” declares
London “Spectator,” “the
refugee problem is already a
political complication which is
full of danger. Disgruntled
misfits, potential Nazis, the hard
core of unemployables and semi-
criminals who still hang on in
the refugee camps, and the
sprinkling of Communist
sympathisers who can move in
among the crowds of new
arrivals are all a menace to
stability.”
In the “Spectator” also, a
Hamburg correspondent points
out that it is the specific Soviet
policy directed against what still
remains of the “middle classes”
which is apt-to terrorise and to
annihilate those classes and to
— A.P. Newsfeatures
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKING?
drive them out in order to avoid
annihilation; that the Soviet
zone of Germany is now ex-
periencing what may be called
the advanced stage of bolshe-
visation;
“A special kind of terror is
applied to achieve this end. The
farmer, for instance is faced
with the obligation to deliver a
fixed amount of agrarian pro-
ducts beyond the limit of his
capacity. He encounters all
kinds of difficulties in receiving
the seeds necessary to cultivate
his lands. He does not get his
machinery repaired. He must
pay high wages and receives low
prices. He is simply driven into
a situation where he cannot de-
liver to the authorities what he
is supposed to deliver. That is
the situation which amounts to
‘sabotage.’ And sabotage is
about the worst crime in the
Soviet zone. Faced with the
alternative of being punished for
sabotage or abandoning his
property, the farmer chooses
the latter course and becomes a
refugee. Similar conditions pre-
vail for the owners of shops
and stores, for more-or-less inde-
pendent artisans and the like.
“Generally the Soviet zonal
authorities regard every able-
bodied man or woman as an
asset, as part of the economic
and military potential of the
totalitarian system. But in the
case of ‘capitalists’ and the like
the social revolution becomes
more important than this general
principle. Apart from the Gov-
ernment and party hierarchy,
there must be no elite whatso-
ever. No one is to owe his suc-
cess to his own endeavor, to his
own initiative, to his own
property. There is to be no
such thing as independence,
either spiritual or material. In-
dependence is to be liquidated.
That is what is happening at
present in the Soviet zone, the
liquidation of the last remnants
of independence. It takes the
form of mass-emigration to the
West.
“This is a grave, a very grave,
development.”
U.S. in Spain
Uncle Sam, according to the
Madrid correspondent of Lon-
don “Sunday Times,” is paying
double what he originally
offered Franco for bases in
Spain.
There will be (same report)
three airfields and three naval
bases. The Americans will
undertake during the first five
years to re-equip the Spanish
armed forces, while Spain, with
American financial aid, will re-
organise rail and road communi-
cations.
Noting it as a most signifi-
cant development “in a period
otherwise marked by cuts in
American foreign aid and a
slower pace of Atlantic rearma-
ment,” the Madrid correspon-
dent of New York “Herald
Tribune” states that the air and
naval bases are not like the
bases which the United States
has constructed or is con-
structing elsewhere. They are
bases to be used jointly by both
Governments in time of war.
In time of peace, they may be
used by the United States only
in accordance with strictly de-
fined and limited conditions.
The correspondent mentions
four air bases —at or near
Seville, Madrid, Burgos and
Albacete —and that the naval
stations are to be at Cartagena,
Cadiz and La Coruna.
London “Times’s” naval
correspondent also notes the
contrast between “an enor-
mous” U.S. outlay in Spain and
the already-made decision to cut
defence aid to the rest of Wes-
tern Europe. “It is certain,” he
says, “that General Franco has
driven a hard bargain,” but the
U.S. will have “such fine har-
bors as Cadiz and Cartagena”
as naval bases, with air bases,
“capable of operating the
heaviest aircraft,” in “north,
central and southern Spain.”
Apart from the obvious ad-
vantages of such air bases to the
West’s European defence set-up,
which such authorities as
General Ridgway and Field-
Marshal Montgomery regard as
decidedly inadequate, the
“Times” writer points out that
the setting-up of naval bases on
the Spanish coast would finally
establish the United States as a
Mediterranean naval Power.
The strong American aircraft-
carrier task-force, known as the
Sixth Fleet, which operates in
the Mediterranean, has hitherto
had no base on the scale of
Malta or Gibraltar. This force
has, in fact, been based on
United States ports and has
been maintained by “mobile
logistic support groups” of
supply-ships and tankers, also
working out of American ports.
Warships in need of major re-
pairs or a refit have returned to
dockyards on the far side of the
Atlantic.
Europe's Choice
“New York Times” sees
Europe in the toils of a “tre-
mendous historical process”:
“Europe, whether strictly con-
strued as a body of land or more
liberally as a way of life, is not
static. Its own civilisation is
changing.
“If the worst happened this
change would be violent and
would be in the direction of a
Communist serfdom. If the best
happens we shall see a new
democratic urge accomplishing
what all the imperialists from
Genghis Khan to Hitler failed
at —that is, the practical unifica-
tion of an area in which such
unification will enrich the
material lives of millions.
“The cultural standardisation
of Europe, under whatever
auspices, would be a nightmare.
Co-operation in trade and in the
common defence is different.
This is what must happen, not
because one or two wise men
thought it up, not because a
gracious, bewhiskered individual
known as Uncle Sam financed
part of it, but because the real
issue was and is unity or slavery,
unity or death.”
Persian Points
Holding that there should be
no further negotiating with
Moussadek, a London “Finan-
cial Times” writer comments:
“His stunt of selling incon-
siderable quantities of oil, at
prices below the cost of produc-
tion, to dubious Italian shippers
will not impress anyone, least of
all the Persian voters.”
Hence, in the writer’s view,
the “gentlemen of the Foreign
Office” should “cease to worry
about Persian oil, for that is a
thing that Dr. Moussadek can-
not do. Dr. Moussadek’s army
is only half-paid, and the salaries
of his civil service are heavily
in arrears. Persia, in fact, be-
comes poorer with every day
that passes. That is the price the
Persians have paid for Dr.
Moussadek, and it is better that
they should learn to recognise it
without the aid of any feverish
exhortations from London or
Washington.”
Without knowing it, Mous-
sadek (the writer points out) has
rendered a considerable service
to world oil-producers. If the
oil now stored in Persia were
offered on the world’s markets,
it would seriously affect the
interests of most of the big oil
groups. For the loss of oil from
Persian sources has been re-
placed with remarkable rapidity.
—London “News Chronicle”
"MY BELOVED COUNTRYMEN—WE HAVE BEEN
IN GRAVE DANGER OF PEACE”
Also,, the “Financial Times”
man adds to the records some
background facts of British
failure leading up to the break:
“If the British have any
responsibility for the worsening
of relations with Persia since the
war, this rests squarely on the
Socialist Government’s policy of
dividend-limitation, which can
be said to have deprived the
Persian Government of some of
its revenue.
“The directors of Anglo-
Iranian did everything in their
power to warn Sir Stafford
Cripps about the effects on
Persia of his rigid rule on divi-
dend-limitation. In making these
representations, they were helped
by Mr. Eden, who went to
Persia as a guest of A.1.0.C.
about a year before the seizure
of Abadan. Mr. Eden contrived
to convince Mr. Ernest Bevin of
the folly of applying dividend-
limitation to A.1.0.C., but
neither Mr. Bevin, nor Mr. Eden,
nor anyone else, could dint the
enamelled obstinacy of Sir Staf-
ford Cripps.”
Rubber-Wheat
Contrast
Member of the House of
Commons, Cyril Osborne, in
London “Daily Telegraph” con-
trasts the American veto on
international control of rubber
with the U.S. Government’s
attitude on wheat:
“Two years ago rubber stood
at 4s. 3|d. a pound; today it is
Is. B|d. Wheat then stood at
$l.BO a bushel under the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement,
which is largely dominated by
the United States. Today
American producers are demand-
ing $2.05 a bushel, although
there are three years’ supplies
already in store. If wheat had
been allowed to fall to the same
extent as rubber, its price today
would be 85 cents a bushel.
“Why should Britain, which
is the biggest buyer, be com-
pelled by international agree-
ment to pay America, which is
the biggest supplier, the subsidy
of 64 cents a bushel she pays to
her farmers for purely internal
political reasons? This is the
old Boston Tea Party war-cry
with a vengeance.”
Building Ships
Figures compiled by “Lloyd’s
Register” : In the 12 months to
March 31 British shipyards
started work on 324,000 fewer
tons than in the previous year.
Moreover, the tonnage launched
in that period fell by 216,000
tons.
As a result, the proportion of
the world’s ships under construc-
tion in British yards at the end of
March was only 35 per cent.,
compared with 40 per cent. 12
months earlier. Up to five years
age the proportion was con-
sistently over 50 per cent.
In contrast, activity in foreign
yards is rising. In the year to
March 31 work was started on
3,711,000 tons overseas, an
increase of as much as 845,000
tons over the previous year.
Work in Germany particularly
has continued to grow and that
under construction has now
reached 559,562 tons, compared
with 432,000 tons 12 months
ago.
J. Bull on the Land
Prophets are pronouncing J.
Builds doom, starved to death,
unless he gets back to an agri-
cultural economy of his own, a
notion solidly debunked by
Toronto (Canada) “Globe and
Mail”:
“Granted the serious nature
of Britain’s food problem, it still
seems unlikely that millions of
its office- and factory-workers


Australasian Subscription Rates
%7ie’sidletz7i'
12 months .. .. ..£ll6 0
6 months . . . . • • 18 6
3 months . . . . • • 9 6
Post-free whether ordered direct from Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, or through any newsagent.
can be persuaded, or even
forced, to go on the land.
“Considering the amount
available to them, they would
be smallholders, in effect peas-
ants, following a way of life
which the mass of Britons have
not followed for close on two
centuries.
“Josef Stalin, with all his
power and brutality, had a hard
enough time pushing Russians
forward into the 20th century.
How can a free people be
pushed backward into the 18th?
And how long, under those cir-
cumstances, would they remain
free? Only an industrial nation
can hold its own in modern
war.”
"Commonwealth"
“Anyone,” comments a Lon-
don “Financial Times” writer,
“may be forgiven for not under-
standing either the name or the
nature of the association of
countries, of which Britain is
one, that are now vaguely
described as the Commonwealth.
“By itself the word has no
meaning. At least four of the
member-States of the United
States are Commonwealths—
Massachusetts, Pen ns ylvania,
Virginia and Kentucky. And
the world also boasts the fast-
growing Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia.
“The reason why the British
Government decided to drop the
word ‘British’ before ‘Common-
wealth’ was that Mr. Attlee and
Sir Stafford Cripps were more
than willing to obey the behests
of Mr. Nehru.”
Malenkov
Assessed by “a veteran in the
field of world diplomacy, with
intimate knowledge of the Rus-
sians,” in a “U.S. News and
World Report” interview:
“I met Malenkov at a Kremlin
dinner in 1947. He impressed
me as a zealot and in his
presence you had a sense of
power. Vyshinsky, who acted as
interpreter, seemed like a school-
boy by comparison.
“This man as ruler of Russia
is dangerous—far more danger-
ous than Stalin. He’s never
been outside Russia. He is ob-
sessed with Russia’s power. At
that dinner in the Kremlin, he
told me in effect: ‘Yes, America
has done great things, but, com-
pared with what we in Russia
intend to do, America has done
nothing.’
“That’s what makes him
dangerous —just as Hitler was
dangerous. He overestimates his
own strength—Russia’s strength.
He may make miscalculations,
just as Hitler did.
“You hear talk about rivalry
between Malenkov and Beria,
1 1 just do not believe it. Malenkov
is the boss, and I believe Beria
alccepts that fact. Malenkov and
Beria regard Molotov as an out-
sider. They were at home mak-
ing decisions while Molotov was
abroad. They listened to his ad-
vice on foreign policy, but, when
it comes to making decisions,
the decisions will be made by
Malenkov and Beria.”
Meeting Moscow
London “Daily Telegraph,”
fed-up with “the jargon with
which the Russian peace
generalities have been greeted”:
“We are tQld that ‘we ought
to meet the Russians half-way.’
Half-way to what?
“Ever since the cold war
started they have been the
aggressors. We have not
gobbled up Central Europe. We
did not blockade Berlin. We do
not run fifth-columns in their
territory. We have been on the
defensive the whole time. All
that we have done is to take
certain measures —still inade-
quate —to defend ourselves.
“The Communists know what
the free world wants —President
Eisenhower has told them.
There is nothing much more that
we can do to meet them. Indeed
tile only practical step which has
been suggested in any quarter is
to seat Communist China, after
American recognition, in the
United Nations and to admit her
claim to Formosa. The former
step might be worth considering
in return for a genuine peace
throughout the Far East. The
latter step would always be
indefensible. There is a very
great deal more that they can
do to meet us,”
"Peace" Tactics
“Ever since the idea of a
European Defence Community
was first broached,” “New York
Times” editorially points out,
“the Russians have determined
to block it.
“Up to now they have tried
to achieve their ends through
fear and force. The new regime
is apparently changing over to
the more soothing and, in some
respects, more dangerous tac-
— N.Y. “Times”
THE GOAL
tics of soft words and seduction.
“There are sincere elements
in every country of Europe that
are so weary of the struggle to
preserve freedom that they are
ready to fall victim to even the
most fatuous promise of peace.
There are strong elements in
Germany that do not want to
rearm, even to save themselves ;
there are strong elements in
France that think even the most
limited German military power
is a greater threat than even
the most overwhelming might
of the Soviet Union.
“The Russians are playing
hard upon all this weariness
and all these fears.”
Russian Price-cuts
In most Western countries —
Britain, America, France and
elsewhere in Europe (as well as
here) —prices have been rising
for years. In Russia they have
been progressively falling since
1948, and still are.
On the face of it, a remark-
able achievement; but this is
another case of “things are not
what they seem,” as Russia-
expert Edward Crankshaw points
out in Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“In spite of price-increases,
the standard of living in Britain
and Western Europe, to say
nothing of America, is a great
deal higher than it is in the
Soviet Union. And prices of
comparable in spite of
six successive official Outs, re-
main higher in the Soviet Union
than anywhere in the West.
“Things are improving, of
course. Steadily, year by year,
life is becoming easier for the
Russians. There is plenty of
food; there is more clothing;
there are more pots and pans.
And all these cost less than they
did.
“But this is not really saying
a great deal. For the simple
reason, ignored by the propa-
gandists, that when the improve-
ment began it was an improve-
ment from something like ?ero.”
Chinese Collectives
In the view of Far East ex-
pert O. M. Green (in London
“Observer”) nothing is more
revealing of the Chinese
peasants’ unrest, visible in
several Communist reports, than
the directive that member-
ship of a mutual-aid team or co-
operative group —designed to
lead up to collectivisation of all
land —will in no way prevent a
man from keeping his own pro-
duce and land for himself.
He may even retire from a
co-operative group if he wishes.
“In other words, the Com-
munists, confronted with the
passive resistance of the men
who shoulder four-fifths of
China’s economy, have had to
reverse the major part of their
agricultural policy and put col-
lectivisation into cold-storage.”
Schuman Plan at Work
The coal part of the Schuman
coal-and-steel plan was launched
on February 10. The steel part
of it, due for launching on April
10, finally got going on May 1
(postponement caused by techni-
cal taxation tangles).
Even now, in Edinburgh
“Scotsman’s” view, the signifi-
cance of this common-market
scheme is not adequately appre-
ciated in Britain.
It comments:
“The six members [France,
Germany, Italy and the Benelux
group] account for about one-
sixth of the world’s output of
steel as well as for about one-
seventh of its output of coal.
While the scheme is still in its
experimental stages, and formid-
able difficulties remain, there
can be no doubt about its im-
portance. The agreement pro-
hibits import duties and restric-
tions between members. A
great free-trade area in the
commodities concerned has thus
been set up comparable to that
existing in the United States.
“In recent weeks noteworthy
progress had been made with the
arrangements for marketing
coal and iron-ore. Members,
for instance, have given up dis-
criminatory freight practices.
Thus Belgium has agreed to
carry coke from pool countries
at the same rates as her own.
The German railways have also
made notable concessions. These
are indicative of a common re-
solve within the member-coun-
tries to go ahead with the
scheme. The fact also that the
governing organisation has the
right to impose a levy on coal
output in order to build houses
for miners opens up the possi-
bility of a substantial improve-
ment in working conditions. It
is generally recognised, however,
that steel will be a much stiffer
test.”
“The experiment,” comments
London “Daily Telegraph,” “is
certainly a remarkable one.
About 155 million people—
approximately the same as the
population of the United States
or of the Soviet Union —now
constitute a single market for
coal, iron-ore, scrap and steel.
These products move across the
frontiers of the group without
any question of a tariff as
though they were passing from
one county to another instead
of from one country to another.
There are still maximum prices
for coal, but over the whole of
this wide area steel prices will
be uncontrolled.
“This is not only a gigantic
piece of internationalisation,
making the pre-war cartels seem
small things, but it has great
political implications. Six
nations have abrogated
sovereignty over a big area of
their economic activities.”
Dragnet Digest
Paramount Germany—lt the
Soviet “peace offensive” is
deliberate strategy, calculated to
slacken, divide and disrupt the
West, then its crucial test, in the
view of leading U.S. foreign-
affairs writer Walter Lippmann,
will be in Europe; “For, as
compared with Germany, the
Far Eastern conflict over Korea,
Formosa, Indo-China, and ulti-
mately Japan, are peripheral.
The future of Germany will
be decisive for Europe and for
the balance of power in the
whole world. The main centres
of power in the modern world
are North America, Europe and
Russia, and Germany, herself a
great Power, is in the middle of
this array of Powers.”
Universal US. Policy.—Balti-
more “Sun,” holding that
America’s foreign policy is, and
must be, an “all-over” policy:
“At certain moments the affairs
of Europe will call for greater
attention, at other moments the
affairs of Asia. This, we believe,
is the view of the [Eisenhower]
Administration. We believe that
the Administration, sees the
whole picture, and is not to be
pushed into a permanent ‘Asia-
first’ attitude any more than it
is going to ignore the rest of the
globe to concentrate on Europe.”
Rough on France. —Hamburg
“Die Welt,” assessing France
with a German ruthlessness
which naturally infuriates the
French: “France, a country of
40 million people with hardly a
dozen divisions intact and
equipped with modern weapons,
with unsolved economic and
political problems which con-
stantly produce new • Govern-
mental crises, with complicated
and uncertain colonial problems
and not in the possession of the
secret of the atomic bomb and
surely not in a position to pro-
duce it, can perhaps make her
claim of being a Power of the
first rank, but that’s about all.”
Malayan Props— New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
Homer Bigart’s summing-up:
“An economy based on two
widely - fluctuating enterprises
such as rubber and tin can
hardly expect any enduring
stability. The Federation Gov-
ernment has tried to promote
diversification. It has asked the
International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development at
Washington to arrange a basic
survey of the economic re-
sources and needs of the coun-
try. It has undertaken large
schemes for increasing rice-
production. But there are no
industries in sight for Malaya
that could take the place of
rubber and tin.”
Chinese in Burma. —London
“Economist’s” mustering :
“These Chinese Nationalists,
numbering some 12,000, are the
remnants of Kuomintang forces
that fled across the Burmese
border from Yunnan, when
Chiang Kai-shek left for For-
mosa in 1949. They have lived
on the country ever since, defy-
ing the inadequate Burmese-
Government detachments sent
to deal with them. They have
existed more as a series of armed
guerrilla bands than as an or-
ganised force, representing a
possible incentive to the Chinese
Communists to move across the
frontier.”
Wrestlers. —Paul Wohl, in
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Once a year the world’s
wrestlers used to meet behind
closed doors and tightly drawn
curtains in a restaurant in Ham-
burg, Germany, to find out in
the honest way who was the real
champion. No chiselling was
allowed at these fights, and the
names of the winners were not
published. The struggle now
going on behind the Kremlin
walls is equally secret, tough and
genuine. Foul holds are part of
the contest, but there can be no
chiselling about the outcome. In
contrast to the secret match in
Hamburg, the result in the end
must become known.”
A British Colony. —London
“Daily Express”: “British
Guiana became a colony 139
years ago. One hundred years
ago only 97 people in the colony
had voting rights. Six years ago
50,000 people —many of them
the descendants of imported
African slaves had voting
rights. Today 210,000 people—
the whole population, including
aboriginal Indians —have voting
rights. That is the way Britain
runs her .colonies.”
Cominform Directions.
“New York Times” report:
“The Cominform has issued
instructions to foreign Com-
munist parties which seem to
call for a ‘stretch-out,’ a con-
centration upon long-range ulti-
mate aims rather than any
gambling efforts to achieve
immediate objectives. This is
above all true for the Com-
munist parties in France, Italy
and Britain.”
Soviet “Peace” Deeds. —As
distinct from their words, Soviet
deeds so far (as observed by
London “Financial Times”)
consist of having let out of
internment' a few missionaries
and diplomatists and agreed to
return some hundreds of United
Nations prisoners-of-war: “By
these few concessions they have
persuaded woolly - minded
people in all parts of the world
that they have abandoned
aggression. Nothing could be
more untrue.”
Berlin Has Doubts— Vernon
Bartlett, in London “News
Chronicle”: “It is among the
Berliners [who are closest to
them] that one finds the gravest
doubt about a Russian change
of heart, the keenest desire that
the Western Powers will make a
very careful examination of any
Russian gift horse; it might, in
their opinion, be as dangerous
as the Greek horse was to Troy.”


THE OHTER FELLOW'S MIND
Elizabethans andf Socialists
The historian Anthony Froude quotes
a contemporary who described the begin-
ning of the reign of Elizabeth I in this
way: “The Queen poor; the realm ex-
hausted ; the nobility poor and decayed ;
good captains and soldiers wanting ; the
people out of order ; justice not executed ;
all things dear; excesses in meat diet
and apparel; division among ourselves;
steadfast enemies, but no steadfast friends
.... If God start not forth to the helm
we be at the point of greatest misery
that can happen to any people, which is
to become thrall to a foreign nation.”
That commentary on England of 1588
has astonishing application to the British
Empire at the opening of the second
Elizabethan reign. British people in many
lands are faced with profound and pro-
digious problems, which, if not tackled
with resolute and robust determination,
could bring them to “the point of greatest
misery.”
The first Elizabethans won through.
Possibly the second Elizabethans will also
win through, but they won’t find the
policies and actions of Socialists to be of
any assistance.
It is debatable whether the Second
World War did more to destroy the
physical and material strength of British
countries than has Socialism in the last
20 years. Certainly Socialism has done
more to weaken and atrophy British
moral fibre and character than any other
force. By preaching the idea of the
supremacy of .the State over the
individual, inculcating a philosophy of
total dependency on Governments, ridi-
culing national pride and sovereignty,
despising tradition, sneering at those pre-
pared to serve Monarch and Country,
stirring up passions of class and hatred,
and strangling initiative and enterprise,
Socialists have devastated British strength
and the .value of British institutions.
The late Sir Stafford Cripps made one
aim of Socialism clear when he declared:
“It is fundamental to Socialism that we
liquidate the British Empire as soon as
we can.” Sir Stafford, a Socialist by
conviction, did much to further that die-
“It must have had a sad love-affair”
turn, and even Australia’s own Dr.
Eva tt has given a number of dramatic
performances in the play “Break up the
Empire.” He was quite unblushing when
he joined with South American Repub-
lies in voting against Great Britain at
U.N.O. meetings.
When it comes to making steadfast
friends, Socialists are unrivalled. Ecuador,
Bolivia and Paraguay are redoubtable
allies. Socialist versatility in diplomacy
is really remarkable. When it comes to
making steadfast enemies. Socialists also
shine, as witnessed by Dr. Evatt’s bril-
liant handling of the Americans at Manus
Island, and by his forthright display of
authority on the ban of Dutch shipping
from Australia to Indonesia,
Restoring economic equilibrium is the
strongpoint of Socialists. It’s just a matter
of starting a few “nut schemes” and
growing sorghum in areas where there is
not sufficient rain to grow sorghum. Dr.
Evatt, as Australia’s Socialist leader, has
a fiscal policy which, if put to the test,
wouldn’t save a pie-stall from insolvency.
His policy on inflation is simply to inflate
your way out. It may be a curious and
bewildering policy, but there it is.
Traitors during the feign of Elizabeth
I were hanged, drawn and quartered.
That method of dispatch may have
lacked a little in finesse, but nothing in
effectiveness. Under Socialism traitors
can expect complete asylum from the
reactionary elements of capitalist society.
A Communist can give his loyalty to a
foreign Power and declare he is working
to overthrow his country, but the Socialist
looks upon this as a mere manifestation
of free thinking and free speech.
In his Parliamentary Government in
England, the late Professor Laski, a
former chairman of the British Labor
Party, made the pregnant observation,
“There is no reason to doubt that the
prerogative of the King seems, to men
of eminence and experience in politics,
above all a means of delaying the coming
of Socialism.” This observation of Laski’s
—intrinsically true —accounts for the
assiduous working by Socialists for more
than a generation to weaken the consti-
tutional position of the Monarch.
Fortunately for posterity and the good
name of our race, the old Elizabethan
spirit, fire and sagacity have not been com-
pletely dissipated. There are still those
who look on the British Empire not as
any anachronism or constitutional exer-
cise, or plaything for Socialist theorists
to fritter away, but as a living reality—
a unique grouping of nations which, over
the centuries, has been the first to evolve
the ideals of democracy and decency.
There still pulses a sense of service, and
the spirit of adventure is not dead.
Through nearly four hundred years the
matchless courage and creativeness of the
first Elizabethans have remained in’ the
British race. Now is the time for it to
mark history with an Elizabethan epoch
as glorious as the first.—D. J. K. (Q.).
Drinking Hours
Some time ago the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment submitted the question of closing-
times of hotel bars in N. S. Wales to a
referendum, when the result was a fore-
gone conclusion. Temperance organi-
sations and other irreconcilable opponents
of the Demon Drink found allies in hotel-
keepers and their employees. The
former were making all the money they
wanted in restricted trading hours, so
to hell with the convenience of the
public. Hotel workers and their relations
were naturally opposed to a longer work-
ing day for the same wages,
In Victoria the Cain Government pro-
poses to follow the N. S. Wales example,
with probably the same result, so in the
two greatest cities in the Commonwealth
the revolting five-o’clock-to-six-o clock
competitive swilling is likely to continue
indefinitely, and consumption in hotel
dining-rooms of even the lightest wine
of the country be deemed an offence
after 8 p.m. as it is today.
After much bickering, snarling and
vacillation, Melbourne seems likely to
be the site of the next Olympic Games.
Imagine the reactions of the thousands
of visitors from countries where drink-
ing is a social pleasure at the spectacle
“Vandals!”
of the great swallow against time.
Picture their amazement when bottles
and glasses are seized by a waiter at
eight o’clock on the dot!
In Queensland, Tasmania and W.A.
six-o’clock closing has been abandoned
for more reasonable trading hours. Far
from the public’s seizing the opportunity
to fill itself up to the eyes, there has
been a marked decrease in excessive
drinking, and the late-afternoon orgy
is no longer to be seen in Brisbane,
Hobart and Perth. — G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
ė
Australian Poetry
At the moment I am helping a teacher
of voice-production (she detests “elocu-
tionists” as much as I do) to make some
suitable selections among contemporary
Australian poetry for use with her pupils.
who range in age from 10
years or so to adults. This
woman has an excellent
appreciation of poetry,
both written and spoken,
and is comparatively well-
read in recent British
verse. But she admits to
almost complete ignorance
of any recent Australian
poetry exceptions ' are
the work of Norma Davis,
whose book), Earth Cry.
she was recommended to
read, and Douglas
Stewart’s verse-plays.
Last year I was invited
by a committee of “poetry-
lovers” to advise them on
suitable recent Australian
poetry for public readings.
That group consisted of
about 12 people, all either
schoolteachers or teachers
of voice-production or
elocution. Their know-
ledge was almost as limited
as that of my present
friend, and their cry for
help almost the same:
“But how do you find out
where to begin a study, or
what to read?”
In both these instances
I have given the names of
the three publications in
this country which regu-
larly publish work of
quality— The Bulletin being given
as first choice because of the amount
of work covered, and the prompt-
ness of its reviews of Australian books
of verse. I have given them the names
and addresses of every library in Sydney
where these publications can be seen (in
some cases borrowed) free. I have also
recommended the two regular anthologies
of Australian verse: one published by
Angus and Robertson and the other by
Jindyworobak.
Only one person of these groups had
even heard of any other publications
except The Bulletin. But they are all
supposed to be people with an interest
in this particular field, who alleged,
before I spoke to them, that they had
made some inquiries for themselves,
I do not think that poor publicity
accorded to Australian poetry can be
blamed for this state of affairs. I’m
not even sure what can be blamed. But
I am appalled to meet persons intelligent
enough to be “teachers” who are so
lacking in enterprise that they cannot
discover for themselves how to acquire
the basic knowledge of a limited field
of study. Presumably no children taught
by this particular batch will be shown the
simple procedures necessary for gaining
preliminary knowledge of a subject, either,
whether that subject be in the field of
the arts, science, or even a hobby.
In Sydney there is a magnificent Public
Library, the unique Mitchell Library, a
Municipal Library well stocked with
Australian literature, including periodi-
cals, and at least one other very moder-
ately-priced reference library (that run
by the W.E.A.). But if my experience is
a fair sample it doesn’t look as if many
of the rising generation are likely to
overwork these amenities.
N.K.


to compare Australian and Canadian
development over the same period with
that of the United States. At the end
of the War of Independence the popula-
tion of the United States was a little over
3.000. Today it is 160,000,000.
Canada’s 15,000,000 and Australia’s
9.000. are puny achievements beside
such a total. Industrially and commer-
cially the comparison is even more stag-
gering.
Australia’s lag in development is far
easier to account for than Canada’s.
Isolation has always been our handicap.
The great years of European migration
and New World development were the
19th century, and for most of that time
the U.S. and Canada were only three
weeks or so away while Australia was
six months; Furthermore, the U.S. and
Canada were historically known, but
Australia was a far-off, mysterious con-
tinent almost lost in southern mists.
Canada could offer many of the advan-
tages of the U.S,; she was close to
Europe; there were opportunities and
land for the adventurous; yet she fell
hopelessly behind the States.
On the surface the inferior positions
of Canada and Australia seem to be the
result of having such a competitor as the
U.S. in the market for capital and people.
But there is a deeper reason. Aus-
tralia and Canada, conscious of being
part of a great Empire and of being pro-
tected by British power, were content to
go along easily, comfortably assured that
there was no great hurry and that no
outsider could ever hurt them.
With the U.S., once they had cut them-
selves free from the Empire, it was sink
or swim. They were entirely alone,
dependent only on themselves for defence
and development. Population was the,
first essential. The lands of the U.S.
were thrown open to the peoples of
Europe, and as they poured in the
frontiers were thrown back and the
nation grew into a giant. The country
was a dynamo of energy during the whole
of the 19th century. The U.S. has be-
come the world’s most powerful nation,
and its rise is one of the greatest success
stories in history.
Today, in some respects, the British
Commonwealth stands where the U.S.
stood a century ago. It owns vast lands
stretched across the world, lands desper-
ately in need of population and develop-
ment. Canada and Australia, the two
great Dominions, possess enormous re-
sources. A few millions difference in
population between them is of small im-
portance. What is important is the un-
doubted truth that the Dominions repre-
sent the future of the English-speaking
race. But to realise their potentialities
we need first of all some of that sense
of urgency that the U.S. had when it
first faced the future alone, determined
to make itself a great nation quickly
whatever the cost. — Mabsout (Vic.).
Digging Up History
When archaeologists dig up the skele-
tons, implements and campsites of some
long-vanished people and then describe
the people and their daily life in detail,
it isn’t done by second-sight or guess-
work.
Science has divided the various stages
of human advancement into “culture
phases,” and the relics of a people who
lived, say, 10,000 years ago can be com-
pared with those used by another people
in a similar state of culture in modern
times.
The extinct Tasmanians, for example,
were a typical example of an Old Stone
Age culture. When stone implements
comparable to Tasmanian types are dug
up in Malaya, you can be sure that the
people who used them lived by hunting
and fishing as the Tasmanians did.
Scientists used to be puzzled by the
tiny “microlith” stone implements found
in many parts of the world, often no
larger than half a threepence. Tests
showed that no effective use could be
made of such tiny pieces of chipped stone
held directly in the fingers. When the
Australian aborigines were studied, how-
ever, the riddle was solved. Our abos
used similar microliths as boring and
engraving tools by mounting the little
piece of stone in hard gum on the end
of wooden handles.
Agriculture undoubtedly began on the
banks of the Nile and Euphrates rivers,
and there is no mystery about the first
steps in growing food crops. Up to the
middle of last century the Hadendoa
tribesmen spent most of the year as
nomadic herdsmen in the semi-desert
country of Southern Egypt. Every
autumn they would move to the banks
of the Upper Nile and scatter millet-seed
on the mud left by the receding waters of
the annual flood. Later, they would
return to harvest the crop. Actual
counterparts of subsequent steps in the
way of scratching up the mud as a rough
cultivation, hoeing out \ feeds and so on
were also found. '
We know how iron v as first worked
because African explorers found tribes
such as the Barotse reducing the ore in
crude furnaces, whose draught was pro-
vided by bellows worked by relays of
men. The forging of sp tar, hoe and
“ Horace ! Are you going to throw your pals out of our bed or am I?”
hatchet-blades was done with a small
stone for a hammer and a large one for
the anvil.
Confirmatory evidence has often been
provided by wall-paintings in caves or
drawings scratched on bone, stone and
baked clay-pots, portraying scenes in the
daily life of people who lived long ago.
To the man or woman trained to in-
terpret archaeological evidence, the task
requires little more mental effort than that
of the average punter trying to pick a
winner. The results achieved by the
scientist, of course, are about 100 times
more accurate. — Archaen (S.A.).
Clay Formation
“Gravelsnatcher’s” Road Board en-
gineer (B. 10/6/’53) is a bit behind the
times. The problem of what mix to use
to defeat ripples on gravel roads has
worried road men for many years—
since the advent of the motor-car with
speeds above 30 m.p.h., in fact.
There seems little doubt that the beat
"We couldn't get rid of that squeak, lady."
of the engine comes into the matter
somewhere, plus road speed. There is
also little doubt in my mind, after having
helped to lay a good few miles of corru-
gations over the last 20-odd years, that
they can be defeated with clay ad-mix.
Three years ago I built a 1000 ft.-radius
curve taking nearly 6000 cubic yards of
filling, 1500 ft. in length. The gravel
was fine and sugary, and almost without
binder at all. I had gambled on an
excellent type of clay available in an-
other pit near by. By dressing the top
formation with about 10 cubic yards per
100 ft. and mixing dry by constant grading
up and down and across, I established a
fine-textured yellowish surface which
stood up to its first winter without wash-
ing down the super-elevation, and which
for a full 12 months hardly needed a
blade on it for maintenance. Now it
needs a bit more topdressing, but it is
quite smooth along the best parts—i.e,,
the best mix.
Other experiments, with the help of
the M.R.D. soil laboratory in Narrogin
(W.A.), show clearly that a certain type
of clay is the answer. —R. H. G. (W.A.),
N. S. Wales Railways
Centralised control doesn’t hinder
flexibility on N. S. Wales railways (B.
20/5/’53).
Goods- and stock-wagons, passenger-
cars and, above all, motive-power must
be dispersed and concentrated to meet,
to the best advantage, day-to-day
demands. Seasonal traffic, industrial
output, and incoming and outgoing ship-
ment orders —all developing in widely
separated parts of the State —can only be
fairly and efficiently catered for by a
single authority equalising the distribu-
tion in the best interests of all.
If each district functioned as a separate
entity, without regard to its neighbors,
surpluses in one area and shortages in
another would be the chaotic result.
Decisions made in distant city offices
are, more often than not, based on the
recommendations of the experienced and
capable men in the country. The crucial
question in such matters is priority.
Again, it is the State-wide survey which
gives the answer.
The rigmarole of reports required for
a refund on a ticket only becomes neces-
sary when the applicant unreasonably
expects cash back on a ticket which, on
his say-so, has been lost; claims some-
thing back on an expired ticket ; forgets
to include address or other essential in-
formation in letter; or seeks reimburse-
ment on an alleged overcharge when
buying a ticket some few months previ-
ously. Hundreds of claims for refunds,
properly presented, are disposed of in
a matter of days.
Growls about trucks not being at a
station when required generally come
from the bloke who never orders them.
Trucks ordered and not supplied incur
demurrage, hence the shrewdies do not
order, but take a chance on there being
a spare truck in the yard when they want
it. They can then load when they like
and are not haunted by demurrage. Their
plan succeeds so frequently that they get
false ideas on the supply of trucks and
squeal when the department, pinched for
trucks, meets only booked orders. —
McKim (N.S.W.).
Medical Benefits
There seems to be a serious anomaly
under die Federal Government medical-
benefits scheme. The Government says
that to secure benefits one must belong
to a medical-benefits fund, yet friendly
societies and medical-benefits funds will
not cover a person for any ailment, ill-
ness or disability in evidence at the time
of application. This would seem to
exclude those most in need of help.—
Arthritis (N.S.W.).
War History
Gavin Long, in defence of his “on-
to-Tripoli” theory (B. 27/5/’53), seems
to base his case on the assumption that
the German High Command’s strategy
was immutable.
In fact, of course, the art of general-
ship is to appreciate each situation as it
arises; and it is profitless to claim that
because the Germans had decided to
adopt a certain course in February, 1941,
they had thereby committed themselves to
a gentleman’s agreement never to change
their plans should new factors develop.
Further, Mr. Long unwittingly
creates a false impression when he says
that “in mid-February, 1941, Rommel
commanded in Africa a little force about
the size of a British brigade-group.”
What Rommel did have in Africa at that
time was merely his H.Q. and the advance
party brought across to prepare for the
arrival of the heavy tanks, the 88mm.
anti-tank guns, and the Stukas and
MElO9s which were to give him such
numerical and technical superiority over
our own desert forces. The advance-
party was a planning and administrative,
not a fighting, component, and its destruc-
tion would have had only a minor effect
on the German capacity to seize the
initiative if opportunity offered.
Which leads me to the point that if
Wavell had been ordered to Tripoli the
Germans would surely have been quick
to realise that he had become poised on
the end of a shaking branch. Hitler had
airborne troops with which to establish
a bridgehead east of Tripoli; at that time
he had no commitments either in Greece
or Russia; and he could certainly have
spared the handful of ar.no red divisions
necessary to keep our fc ces shut up in
Tripoli and at the same time to advance
along the open road into Egypt. Ad-
mitted that Malta would have lain outside
the German 1.-of-c., but the Royal Navy
would not have relished the task of
trying to maintain Tripoli as well as
Malta. Both outposts would have be-
come seriously endangered.
Brigadier Desmond Young in his book
on Rommel contends with some justifica-
tion that in 1941 Hitler had not appreci-
ated the offensive possibilities open to
him in North Africa. My theory is that
our advance to Tripoli with tired troops,
inadequate equipment and an over-
strained 1.-of-c. would have exposed the
fact that the whole campaign from Sidi
Barrani onwards had been a fraud —a
bold, imaginative bluff to cover our real
weakness.
Nobody can accuse Wavell of lack of
courage in his conduct of the advance
westwards. Why did he suddenly become
reluctant to move on to Tripoli? He
himself has explained that he lacked the
resources. In short, he knew that if he
continued to overplay his hand his bluff
would be called. And that is exactly
what happened to him at Benghazi. How
then can Mr. Long continue to argue
that the bluff would have succeeded if
Wavell had limped his troops into
Tripoli?
My own theory is that the bluff might
■ have succeeded had Wavell stayed back
at Tobruk.— Peter Mike (W.A.).


FAST-EFFICIENT-THRIFTY
WOOLCLASSING
( TUBULAR STEEL )
WOOL
TABLE
Mm
’ f SmU .1
..
. i»i i
• i,
*" r *" .1
i : 'fx w
W* ■ MZ*
ALL PARTS
REPLACEABLE
Obtainable from your
tyoolbroker, or
CAN BE A FEATURE
OF YOUR WOOLSHED
Featuring roller top with non-rust,
self - lubricating, machine - tested
bearings, the Renlita wool- table
will for itself in time saved by
quick handling. Only 1401 b. weight,
but very rigid, Renlita can be
quickly assembled and adjusted for
height by one man.
LENGTH 93"
WIDTH 5 0"
ADJUSTABLE
HEIGHT
2'Bi" to B'l"
ę
KeA LAIRD
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. 8U2614
THE MAN ON
THE LAMP
"DON'T WORRY. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep-drenching
“Sheepo”; It’s false economy
to drench only those sheep
known to be worm-infested. The
whole flock should be mustered
and all drenched. Young sheep,
weaners particularly, will in-
variably be the first to become
wormy, and as parasites cause a
severe setback in growth,
weaners should always be
drenched before being taken
from the ewes to fresh paddocks.
In wormy areas sheep should
be drenched regularly, once a
month if possible. In more-or-
less clean country two or three
drenchings might keep sheep
free from most species of worms,
but a periodical examination of
the droppings should be made,
and any dead sheep should be
opened up and inspected.
Bought sheep only too often
are worm-infested, and should
always be drenched three times,
at fortnightly intervals. Bought
sheep often make clean country
wormy.
Use only a drench recom-
mended by the C.5.1.R.0. or a
reliable firm, and pay strict
attention to instructions. Sheep
should be given the mixture
slowly.
With the sheep in a standing
position and the head slightly
raised but not forced back too
far, the mixture should be given
in such a manner that it will go
down the proper channel. If the
head is forced back too far or
the mixture is roughly or care-
lessly given, some of it may
enter the lungs or cause chok-
ing. Whether a gun, tin, funnel
or bottle is used, it is essential
to give correct dosage. Careless
use of drenching-guns can cause
injuries and deaths.
Lime
“Farmer Bill”: Though not a
fertiliser, lime is tops in main-
taining soil-fertility. Benefits to
heavy soils include breaking
them up into more friable tex-
tures and inducing better drain-
age and earlier warming-up of
the vegetable-bed in spring. In
dry seasons it helps to stop
baking and cracking. Longer
growing-periods and higher
crop-yields result.
The versatile properties of lime
are revealed in the manner in
which it binds up light soils and
stabilises sandy ones. Its cal-
cium and magnesium content
sweetens sour soils and improves
the over-acid.
Where green-manuring or
composts are part of the garden
programme, lime helps the bac-
teria present to change organic
Bodies into plant-nutrients.
Vegetables which welcome
lime are cabbages, beet, celery,
lettuce, leeks, peas, spinach and
onions.
Dressings of slaked-lime re-
quired by various soils per
square yard are as follows:
medium to heavy loams, lib.;
clay-loams and soils, 21b. f
sandy loam, £lb. to ilb.; very
sandy soils up to
When using limestone allow
an additional |lb. to the square
yard for all soils. Fork well
into the bed at least three weeks
before planting the crop.
Lime prevents the develop-
ment of fungus responsible for
club-root of cabbages, cauli-
flowers, swedes, etc.
Tobacco and Rye
“Nicot”: A few years ago
tobacco-growers believed that
tobacco of the best quality was
produced on the richest alluvial
“Music may improve the lay. Mum, but you should
have turned off that talk on modern art.”
soils. That may have been so
when the darkest and rankest
tobacco was required for chew-
ing or pipe-smoking.
In recent years it has been
realised, though not yet properly,
that sandy or light soil of poor
inherent quality, with the plant-
food provided under control,
chiefly by artificial fertilisers,
will produce the best light
cigarette-tobacco, now mostly in
demand.
Such soil quickly loses its
organic matter under cultivation,
and needs replenishment. Some
leguminous green-manure crops
grow well on poor sandy soil,
but they may easily add too
much nitrogen to the soil for
tobacco. Cereal - rye grows
better than most other crops on
poor soils and, as green-manure,
provides organic matter without
enriching the soil with nitrogen.
Alternation of tobacco and rye
is the standard system of crop-
ping on thousands of acres of
tobacco-land in Canada.
Scab on Lemons
“Hortus”: Scab on lemon-
trees is common in N.S.W.
coastal areas. Slightly-raised,
irregular, scabby or wartlike
growths appear on young twigs,
leaves and the fruit itself, first
showing on very young leaves,
generally on the lower side, in
small circular swellings.
When it attacks the fruit the
shape is more-or-less irregular
and the color is greyish. A bad
attack causes fruit to be dis-
torted.
Whether your trees are going
to be attacked by the scab de-
pends mainly on weather condi-
tions experienced at the time of
the main blossoming period in
spring. If the weather is dry
during the fruit-setting the scab
will hardly ever appear. If wet
you can expect trouble, unless
you have previously used pre-
ventative measures.
The latter consist of Bordeaux
6-4-10®, plus white-oil applica-
tion after half but before all the
blossom-petals have fallen. Re-
peat spraying on the first good
intermediate blossoming in
January or February. The
main point is to spray at the
exact period of growth indi-
cated, otherwise you can expect
control failure.
Water-levels
“Sunset”: Don’t let anyone
use “Sundowner’s” method (B.
3/6/’53) for levelling a bowling-
green, or he will probably be
bowling uphill. Owing to
friction in the hose and capillary
attraction, the water-level in the
glass-bottles would not be the
same.
Using a 60ft. length of garden-
hose, with a gauge-glass fitted at
each end, standing vertically,
water may be poured into one
gauge-glass until the hose is
filled and the gauge-glass over-
flows, but the water-level at the
other end will be several inches
below the top. Exact distance
will depend upon number of
bends in the hose, internal
diameter and degree of smooth-
ness of the bore.
I tried this system once on
two concrete foundations about
50ft. apart, and it was so
inaccurate that the error could
be seen with the eye.
Drought Feed
“Vita M.”: During prolonged
drought the greatest concern is
to get the cheapest feed possible
to keep the stock alive. How-
ever, more than loss of weight
is then suffered by the animals.
An important depletion in
their bodies is that of vitamins,
especially vitamin A. Such de-
pletion, according to California
ranchers, can cause abortion
and blindness in cattle, and is
avoided by getting at least a little
green-hay, preferably lucerne,
now and again in the feed.
If this is not possible and if
the cattle come safely through,
feed of high vitamin-A content
should be provided immediately
to build up as quickly as
possible.
In Florida
“Agric”; A delegate from
Florida told the Sixth Inter-
national Grasslands Congress in
Pennsylvania (U.S.A.) that the
application of lime, complete
fertilisers and minor elements,
combined with planting of im-
proved grasses, such as pangola
(Digitaria decumbens ) and pen-
sacola bahia (Paspalum nota-
turri), and improving manage-
ment practices, beef-yields on
sandy soils of low fertility in
Central Florida had been in-
creased from 101 b. per acre per
annum to about 2001 b.
In one small trial, by increas-
ing the nitrogen to 1801 b. per
acre, beef-yields were increased
to 9701 b. per acre. Hairy-indigo
(Indigofera hirsuta) had attracted
some attention as a summer
legume which did well in the
Florida soil and climate, fixed
nitrogen well and might be
moderately grazed. Cattle de-
veloped some abnormalities on
dense fields of it, but where
grasses were available in com-
bination with it the trouble did
not show up.
This species, says S. L,
Everist, of Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture, is a com-
mon weed in many parts of
coastal Queensland, where it is
not generally regarded as useful;
on a few occasions it has been
suspected of poisoning stock.
Spray Irrigation
“C.A.A.”: Although initial
cost of installation for spray-
irrigation of pastures is high —
about £4O an acre in Vic. apart
from the engine required to lift
the water and produce the neces-
sary pressure—creation of a per-
manent pasture will more than
outweigh this expense.
In most cases at least 6in. of
water an acre is needed. This
is about 140,000ga1. an acre,
which may be spread over half
a dozen or more sprayings. For
an area of 10 acres something
more than 200,000ga1. has to be
found for each watering.
Incidentally, if soil-fertility is
to be maintained, the rate of top-
dressing with super, should be
considerably increased where
spray irrigation is used, up to*
two bags per acre per year being
recommended.
2,4-D and Wheat
“Puccinia”: Preliminary tests
in America have shown that the
hormone compounds, such as
2.4- used for spraying cereal-
crops for weed-control, also
serve largely to prevent attack
by rust-diseases. In Riverina
2.4- is being boom-sprayed on
young wheat to destroy skeleton-
weed.
Between organisations such as
State Departments of Agricul-
ture, universities, the Waite
Research Institute and the
C.5.1.R.0. it should be possible
to have some research into its
effect on wheat-rust in Australia.
Zebu Temperament
“Oxo”: About five million
cattle in the southern States of
the U.S.A. now have varying
proportions of zebu blood,
according to A. M- Pena, of San


Established ibub m Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
.
mm
mmm.
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
COARD
TIL
PROTECTA
LL
Satiable lor every type of boelnee, II records
all Sales. Credits, Payout, etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appears ace. Send for full details
and literature to
lACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Hstributing Agents—
fELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
DELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
‘ERTH •• ..Docket Book Co. (Aast)
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health, Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. .NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. .NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
fa 9
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia, Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 20 years
■ ■ ■ ■"DISTBIBUTOBS: 1 "“**
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
YIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Trading Co., Baffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
Mateo, New Mexico, now visit-
ing Queensland on a Fulbright
scholarship. Pena believes the
zebu hybrid has yet to face the
test of buyer-discrimination.
It made quick headway when
meat was in short supply, but
the test would come when
markets were plentifully supplied
and buyers had a wider choice.
He contends that zebu hybrids
are not but they
reach marketable conditions
faster than British breeds,
because they are bigger animals.
He did not think they would ever
compare with British breeds for
quality, because there was not
the same opportunity for selec-
tion.
In the U.S.A. it was the
practice to sell all the calves,
thereby gaining the full advan-
tage of hybrid vigor. If first-
generation hybrids were retained
as breeders, uniformity was lost,
which was Mendel’s theory
working out in practice. Carcass-
grading favored Shorthorns or
Herefords compared with zebu
hybrids, but the proportion of
high-priced cuts was about
equal. Zebus, however, seemed
to have the advantage for
climatic extremes. Pena has seen
them thriving on the high
country of Colorado when there
was 24in. of snow; in Texas
cattlemen were able to run
zebu hybrids in feed-lots without
protection from the sun, whereas
shade usually had to be pro-
vided for other cattle.
Generally, the hybrids had no
appeal to fatteners because of
their temperament; dehorned
Herefords were preferred. Some
cattlemen running zebu-crosses
in Texas were controlling them
by feeding \Vo. of cotton-seed-
meal per head per day, distribut-
ing it by truck. In this way the
cattle became quiet and easily
handled; otherwise it was diffi-
cult to work them, especially on
horseback.
Pena said it cost about 120
dollars (£AS3 125.) to fatten a
steer in the U.S.A. The beast
would be sold as a feeder-calf at
about six months old, and weigh-
ing 4001 b. The feeder would put
the calf into a wheat- or corn-
field for 15 to 30 days before
starting it on concentrates, which
would carry it to 10001 b. at 16
months of age.
More About Hive-loaders
“S.”: In the U.S.A., where
problems of production and
marketing are not so
to bring about the sacking of the
hired hand, the beemen fold that
the increasing use of insecticides
and the alarming suddenness
with which they can be applied
compel them to have a means of
moving a stand away in double-
quick time. The result is the
“boom”-type loader, which costs
about £A9OO and upwards.
It consists of a girder-like
base, either on the cabin-top or
immediately behind, upon which
revolves a “boom” or arm, near
on 20ft. long. This arm revolves
right round the truck, picking up
or dropping the colonies in a
wide circle, thus, for the first
time in travelling beekeeping,
getting right away from the
accepted “four-square” stands of
bees. An electric motor works
the hoist, deriving its power from
a generator built into the device
and transmitted through a set of
batteries.
To my mind, these “boom”
loaders are clumsy, heavy and
expensive. The problem is to lift
a hive of bees, not a railway
engine. And after a glance at
this Yankee loader, I’m all for
the “G-well” hoist previously
mentioned in these pages, but,
unfortunately, yet to be invented.
A Chicken’s First Week
“Cock o’ the Walk”: The first
week of the chicken’s life is most
important, for on it the life and
well-being of the fowl is deter-
mined.
The brooder should be about
90deg. F. for the first few days,
behavior of the chickens being
the best guide. If they pant and
spread out the heat is too great,
if they crowd together and chirp
loudly they are too cold. If they
are contented and industrious,
the heat is right.
Food and water should be
available immediately, although
they will not eat or drink much
the first day. If food is not avail-
able at once they may peck each
other. If they are not upon wire-
netting the floor of the brooder
should be covered with fine sand,
sawdust, oathulls or ricehulls.
Food may be either chicken-
food or pellets. It should be
placed towards the source of
light so they can find it. After
a couple of days a little charcoal
should be given as a bowel cor-
rective. Very fine shellgrit
should be given. Greenfeed,
very finely-chopped, is necessary
after two or three days—when-
ever they will begin to eat it.
Milk may be given as a drink.
The chickens should be pro-
vided with a run to get them
used to going back to the source
of heat when they get cold. The
run should be progressively
increased and the food and water
placed out in it. Direct sunshine
is essential for a part of the day
to prevent rickets.
Homestead Hedge
“Quorn”: Rosemary and
lavender both make excellent
dwarf hedges and grow well in
dry areas if given a reasonable
amount of water to tide them
over the worst of the heat.
The leaves withstand the
hottest of winds, although we
are used to thinking of them as
English plants which should
thrive in cool places. An out-
back garden bordered by a low
hedge is protected from burning
winds.
Oleander makes a fine floral
hedge for homestead or
vegetable-garden. In addition to
thriving in hot and dry areas, it
has dense evergreen foliage
which keeps out wind and dust.
Oleanders can be had in very
beautiful colors. They will grow
with very little moisture and do
well on soapy water.
The Bimble-box
“Old Nick”: Common though
it may be in the drier parts of
N.S.W. and Queensland, the
bimble-bojc {Eucalyptus popul-
folia) ranks among the orna-
mentals. This is partly due to its
bright-green and glossy leaves,
which, round in shape, are
similar to those of the Lombardy
poplar. The foliage is dense, on
wide branches giving the tree a
graceful appearance.
In some areas bimble-box is a
free - seeder and develops
numerous suckers. Because of
this farmers sometimes dislike
it. On the other hand, the habit
ensures stands of it being easily
established on poor clay soils
which have a tendency to become
waterlogged and makes it useful
for eroding patches.
The timber is hard and dur-
able. Difficulty in splitting may
be overcome by using it in the
round for fencing-posts and
rough buildings.
In 12in.-rainfall areas this box
is splendid for shade and shelter-
belt purposes. In most inland
districts it reaches a 7 height of
30ft.
i
Legumes and Wheat
“Bogaduck”: It has been a
problem to find a suitable
legume for rotation in the drier
wheat areas, and the C.5.1.R.0.
has made some tests with
vetches in W.A.
The vetch had to be immune
to the pea-weevil and able to
withstand the red-legged earth-
mite and the lucerne-flea. Its
pods must not shatter as soon
as they are ripe, and the grain
has to be large enough to be
picked up by sheep. It had to
be non-toxic to sheep and must
recover after being grazed.
Something close to the ideal
was found in the one-flowered
vetch, Vida articulata. It
equalled in yield of grain the
White Brunswick pea, and had
the necessary qualities. Unfor-
tunately, it matures rather late,
though tests have shown that
this can be minimised by early
sowing. It makes its main
growth early in spring; if
allowed to die-off it leaves the
ground covered with a thick
mass of fine stems.
West Australia has a winter
rainfall which ceases abruptly,
followed by sudden hot weather,
so this vetch may be good for
the South Australian Mallee,
where the change from winter to
summer is neither as drastic nor
as swift.
Hints for the Farm
“Ida D”; When fresh fowl-
manure is mixed in the soil the
area should lie fallow for a con-
siderable time afterwards. Fowl-
manure is the strongest of all
manures, containing most, if not
all, of Nature’s fertilising agents.
If used too fresh its content of
ammonia will kill off young
plants, especially Iceland
poppies, with delicate roots.
“C.A.A.”: An average peach-
tree at the pre-blossom spray
requires 3gal. to Bjgal. of solu-
tion for complete cover. An
apple-tree in foliage, as at
summer cbdhng-moth sprays,
needs 4gal. or more, and citrus
sprayed for scale insects needs
above lOgal. It is essential to
use spray equipment which will
enable these quantities to be
applied without skimping the
effort.
“Pastin’’: Parsnip- and onion-
seeds have a short life, rarely
having a good germination a
year after harvest, and some-
times not even after a few
months. But if kept in the frig.,
or, better still, in a deep-freeze
unit, these seeds will be good
for two to four years.
“Plane Creek”: Ratoon-stunt-
ing disease is causing such
concern in the Mackay (N.Q.)
district that the mills are pro-
viding facilities for dipping cane-
setts in a disinfectant prior to
planting. Plane Creek mill at
Sarina has already treated some
tons of plants in a large iron
tank half-filled with a solution of
mercury and water heated by
steam. Far from being a new
disease, ratoon-stunting is now
suspected of having caused the
deterioration and ultimate ruina-
tion of good cane varieties over
many years.
“Garden”: When dressing
land from which greenfeed for
poultry is to be cut use manure
other than from the fowlyard or
risk worm-infestation.
“Billjim”: Winter egg-produc-
tion will improve if hens are fed
three times a day instead of the
customary twice. In the morn-
ing a small amount of wheat or
mixed grain ; at midday as much
wet mash as they will eat in 20
minutes; in late afternoon
another good feed of wheat or
mixed grain. In addition, see that
pens have a dry-mash hopper
with two compartments, one for
dry mash and one for meatmeal.
Hens should have access to this
hopper all day.
“My”: The draughthorse in
Victoria, as elsewhere, is rapidly
becoming a museum-piece. This
year 86 draughthorses were
registered under the State’s
Horse-breeding Act, compared
with 1042 in 1939.
“D.J.H.”: Experiments in the
U.S.A. indicate that hormone
implantation (diethylstilbestrol)
under the skin of the ear of
wether lambs gave the same fat-
tening results as with cockerels.
Wethers on irrigated pasture
made an average of 401 b. gain
in 70 days after treatment, while
untreated lambs only made 291 b.
gain in the same times.
“Myrr”: Green potatoes have
an unpleasant, bitter taste, and
can cause ' stomach upsets.
According to G. H. Mattingley,
Victorian expert, potatoes,
under the action of light,
develop a green color and an
alkaloidal glucoside known as
solanine, which has poisonous
properties. Mattingley recom-
mends discarding green tubers
and storing unaffected potatoes
in a dark, well-ventilated place.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Absence of sunspots suggests that in northern areas
there is very little prospect of any useful rain. Next rain
in the present cycle in the northern areas is late in July. In
the south further successive rains are likely, hut again the
absence of sunspot activity may have a reducing effect.
Sunspot activity at present is in a most unusual condition,
and so far has not shown any traits that would enable
actual effect on weather to be determined.


Then you could spend most of
your time developing your
pump.”
Mr. Waldron stared, “You’re
joking.”
“Never so serious. Look, Mr.
Waldron, the company wants
that block. They’re a wealthy
crowd, and they’re prepared to
pay highly for what they want.
You want time to work on your
pump.” He shrugged, “I doubt
if you’ll get such a chance
again.”
“Good Lord, no.” Mr.
Waldron was emphatic. “It’s a
miracle.”
Mr. Waldron didn’t believe in
miracles, not outside the Bible.
But this was near enough. What
wouldn’t he give to have a go
at the pump! He’d show ’em.
Yes, Bob Waldron, top man of
the final year of the whole
engineering school, he’d show
! some of these blokes who’d
landed the big jobs while he’d
plugged away at consulting stuff
no harder than that he’d done
straight after Uni. He’d show
’em he could still run rings round
them all. “Gosh,” they’d say,
“fancy old Bob; dark horse,
eh? Thought he was just a
plodder; now look at him.
World-wide reputation. Just
kept it all a secret till he had it
perfect ...”
Yes, what wouldn’t he give to
pull it off! Well, would he give
the block? The tree and the
birds? Let a hideous factory be
built next to his house? He saw
the dark green cone of his tree
standing tall and strong, saw the
flash of wings in the sun, heard
the evening murmurings and the
morning chorus of joy. He
breathed more quickly.
He hated the thought of a
factory replacing the tree —stark
walls, drab color, noise, junk-
heaps. But wait ... if he could
give up most of his ordinary
work, why not go *and live
among trees and birds? But no,
he must be near a reference
library, a workshop, a test lab.
Then when the pump was
finished? Maybe years—there
was no knowing what snags he’d
strike. And then there was Liz,
she’d be against it.
He lookejd at Parsons. “I
don’t know what to say. I’d love
a chance to work on the pump.
But”-——
He stood up, Mr. Waldron
stood, too. Parsons put his
hands in his pockets and stared
thoughtfully out of the window.
He turned to Mr. Waldron.
“Look, how about this. I’ll
get our lawyers to draw up an
agreement. When it’s ready, if
you’ve decided to sell, 0.K.; if
not, well” he shrugged
“there’s no harm done.”
He left with the air of a man
who knows the answer.
TtyTR. WALDRON walked
along the passage to the
kitchen. Mrs. Waldron was
labelling jam; she looked up,
and, seeing his expression, turned
back to her work. Mr. Waldron
sat down, and stared at a wash-
basket of clothes while he puffed
at his pipe. Suddenly he looked
up.
“Ah, there you are, Liz. They
want to buy our block.”
“Buy our block? Who does?”
“The company Parsons works
for.”
“Whatever for?”
Mr. Waldron smiled
crookedly. “You know I guessed
that they wanted me to design a
factory for them. They don’t,
they want to buy our block to
build it on.”
“Good heavens! I can guess
what you said.”
“I told him I’d think it over.”
“But, Robert, you wouldn’t
sell it, surely?”
He frowned. “Well, Liz, it
would never have entered my
head to sell it. But they’ve made
a wonderful offer.”
“But, Robert, a factory —you
know you can’t stand them.
And what about the tree —that’d
go?”
He nodded. She stared at him
in amazement.
“And yet you’d consider
selling it?”
“I tell you, they made a
wonderful offer.”
“Robert, you’d regret it for
the rest of your life.”
“But listen, Liz; they’ve
offered me enough shares in the
company to keep us.”
“We don’t need anyone to
keep us. We’ve always had
enough. You don’t want to give
up work, do you?”
“No; but I’d be able to work
on the pump.”
Her face hardened.
“Don’t do it, Robert. You’ll
be sorry, I know you will.”
He got up. “I’ll have to think
it over.” He went out without
looking at her. Mrs. Waldron
went on with her labelling, slap-
ping the paste on with much
more effort than was necessary.
6 Liz, I’ve done it.”
** He tossed the shares on
the table. Mrs. Waldron ignored
them. She looked at him
steadily.
“You’re a fool, Robert, a
damned fool.”
He looked peeved. “Now
look* Liz, what about looking at
it from my point of view, for a
change?”
Mrs. Waldron’s lips tightened.
“You know jolly |well,” he
went on, “how much I want to
have a go at that pump and how
long I’ve waited. Could I pass
up a chance like this? Could
I, now?”
Mrs. Waldron’s eyes held his.
Scorn was in them, but pity, too.
She spoke quietly, trying to keep
her voice even.
“Robert, honestly now; has
it been impossible for you to
work on the pump all these
years?”
“Good Lord, Liz,” He spoke
indignantly. “You know how
busy I’ve been, how I’ve slaved.
Night as well as day, sometimes.
And for you, don’t forget.”
Mrs. Waldron turned and left
the room without speaking. Mr.
Waldron sat at the table, smok-
ing and thinking. His thoughts
troubled him.
TUpL WALDRON walked
slowly along the path, until
he was opposite the tree. He
stopped and looked up, the tree
loomed before him, broad and
high, dark against the evening
sky. Birds murmured drowsily
from its darkness. He shut his
eyes. He saw a raw stump, and
the tree lying lifeless on the
grass. A huge factory towered
nightmarishly above him,
darkening the house, darkening
his life. He heard the swish of
wings, the bewildered cries of
lost birds.
Suddenly he felt cold. His
pipe had gone out. He opened
his eyes, and, without looking at
the tree again, turned and
shuffled back lo the house.
Mr. Waldron sat at his desk.
He looked bitterly at the shares.
If only it were yesterday. There
was an ache in his throat, an
intolerable tightness. He put his
head on his arms and wept.
It was not for the tree and
birds that he wept, nor at the
thought of the factory. He wept
for himself. He saw again his
wife’s face, her eyes piercing him
as she asked whether he had not
been able to work on the pump.
He shrank from her eyes: they
saw right into him. He, too, saw
into himself, clearly, for the first
time.
She was right. It was not lack
of time that had prevented him ;
it was a lack in himself—of per-
sistence, character; he was
uncertain of his capabilities, dis-
liked facing possible failure. He
saw now that he had failed, more
so than if he had built a pump
that wouldn’t work.
He sighed, lifted his head. He
felt a little better; the tightness
had gone, the tears had washed
away his blindness. Now, at
fifty, he knew himself; now he
could be honest and look with-
out self-deceit at the men who
had outstripped him.
He wiped his eyes, filled his
pipe. His hands were not quite
steady. There was still an ache
in his heart, but he felt
immeasurably stronger, fortified
with his new knowledge. He lit
his pipe, smoothed back his hair
and went to look for his wife.
made legal in N.S.W. about 14
>years ago, the aim being to
encourage patients to seek
admission in the early stages of
their disease, when they could
be treated without the necessity
of certification. Mental hospitals,
however, are now refusing to
admit voluntary patients on the
ground that they are already
overcrowded, the result being
that undue strain has been
placed on Broughton Hall. At
time of writing, it takes about a
month to get a patient admitted
to Broughton Hall —a serious
matter in cases of acute mental
disease.
In England the voluntary
system has been developed
extensively, and now about 50
per cent, of patients enter mental
hospitals there on a voluntary
basis.
Another most interesting
development stemming from
experience in England during the
war, from experience of private
mental hospitals in Australia,
and from psychiatric clinics in
general hospitals—is the know-
ledge that many patients can be
treated successfully away from
mental hospitals.
This means that the general
public hospitals must be used
morejand more in the treatment
of mental diseases, and also that
patients in the psychiatric wards
must be treated more on the
lines of ordinary patients.
Shock-treatment, narco-analysis.
hypnotism, occupational therapy
and the like can be used as well
in a general hospital as in a
mental hospital.
Psychiatric out-patients, of
course, have been a feature of
general hospitals for years, and
this has worked well. The next
step was the treatment of acute
psychiatric cases, especially
melancholics, as in-patients in
special wards in general
hospitals, a somewhat daring
departure from established
practice.
So far, in Sydney, the Prince
Alfred is the only general
hospital with its own psychiatric
clinic for in-patients. Brisbane
General Hospital has one, so has
Melbourne General, and some
good w ; ork along these lines is
being done in Launceston and
Hobart. The time will come
when all general hospitals
worthy of the name will have
their own psychiatric clinics.
It is a still further develop-
ment that psychiatric patients
can be successfully treated as
ordinary patients in ordinary
wards in general hospitals.
In America, in a general
hospital run by nuns, as many
as 4000 acute alcoholics have
been successfully treated in the
past 15 years. To make the
picture more strange (by our
rather parochial standards), no
attempt was made to disguise the
disease from which these patients
were suffering.
Of late years there has
been an impressive growth of
private mental hospitals. At first
they were modified mental
hospitals of the old stamp ; now,
the best of them —and they are
to be found in all the Australian
capital cities —approach more
nearly the civilised methods and
environment of a well-run
private general hospital. The
number of escapes from them
and the number of mishaps that
occur in them are remarkably
low. The recovery-rate is high.
Of the fairly recent treatments
of mental patients once they are
committed to public or private
mental hospitals, probably the
one most publicised (though
perhaps not most clearly under-
stood) is shock-treatment, which
was introduced here through the
initiative of private doctors.
The treatment consists of
passing an electric current
through the head, causing a con-
vulsion. The machine is cheap,
and can be used by almost any-
one with a minimum of tuition.
Refinements in its use have been
discovered ; for instance, patients
with fragile bones, and the
aged, could have the severity of
the convulsion controlled by the
use of drugs such as curare.
It was inevitable that all forms
of mental disease would be
treated by this new method.
Shock-treatment has been used
on homosexual and other sexual
offenders, on mental defectives,
even on senile dements. If one
reads the psychiatric literature of
the war one finds that many
diseases, such as toxic psychoses,
were given this treatment and
recovered. The recoveries were
hailed as a great benefit shock-
treatment had conferred on the
human race.
The younger psychiatrists,
who had received their training
during the war, welcomed shock-
treatment with particular
enthusiasm. It made psychiatry
so easy. The diagnosis of
patients became less and less
important, since these practi-
tioners were perfectly willing to
treat all types of mental disease
with it, and patients were soon
divided into those Who
responded to shock-treatment
and those who did not respond.
The benefits of shock-treat-
ment are considerable, though its
introduction into mental
hospitals has done little to
correct the mechanistic leanings
of those institutions. Patients,
and especially the relatives of
patients, could now have the
satisfaction of feeling that
“something was being done for
them”; on the other hand,
shock-treatment has had the
effect of dulling the diagnostic
sense of the doctor.
Many patients declare that
doctors in mental hospitals tend
to become “shock-happy,” and
the abuse of shock-treatment has
been criticised by medical
writers. Actually, the treatment
should only be used in states of
mental depression and in the
insanities associated with child-
bearing. Many others, includ-
ing patients suffering from toxic
insanities, will get better more
quickly without it. There are
always a certain number of
patients who improve, no matter
what the treatment. That so
many patients do improve under
shock-treatment is often an
indication not of the superiority
of the treatment, but of the
remarkable resilience of the
human body. (It is interesting to
note that the percentage of dis-
charges from mental hospitals is
no higher now than it was 50
years ago.)
I myself have questioned
patients who have been in mental
hospitals very closely on their
reactions to shock-treatment —
and the majority of them are
terrified of it. The night before
treatment the whole ward is in
a state of tension ; and many
patients claim to be better —
much better —to avoid more
shock-treatment. It is a very
common story to psychiatrists in
private practice.
No one disputes the fact that
in certain cases—such as the
melancholics shock-treatment,
harsh as it is, is the best method
of treatment. It is also true that
many refractory patients can be
controlled better by continued
shock-treatment; but after
hundreds of shocks the patient
becomes a dull dement, his brain
permanently destroyed perhaps,
or, at least, put out of full action
for months or years.
Similarly with leucotomies.
The operation, which consists of
cutting certain s fibres of the
brain, is of great value in certain
cases, but if it is extended
beyond its just limits, patients
will become more manageable,
admittedly, but only at the price
of permanent mental deteriora-
tion.
This raises the weighty ques-
tion: Are we to consider others
or the patient himself? Because
a patient is troublesome and
violent, are we justified in per-
manently damaging his brain,
even though, in certain cases, we
know the operation is advisable,
and even unavoidable?
The deadly thing about such
measures is that they are so easy.
Every experienced psychiatrist
knows that many troublesome
and difficult patients can become
quite manageable with correct
treatment —by giving them more
liberty, by arousing their
interest, and, in certain cases, by
discovering a bodily cause for
their mental symptoms and
treating it. But if such patients
are treated by physical means,
the investigation necessary to
arrive at the underlying causes
will- often be neglected, and
alternative lines of treatment will
not be explored. The results of
an operation such as a leucotomy
are permanent and irreversible.
Regarding the general unsatis-
factory state of affairs in mental
hospitals, in fairness to the
authorities it must be said that
some of the reasons lie in causes
outside.
Relatives of patients, in some
cases, do little to help. A
medieval sense of shame may
still keep a patient’s family away
at a time when their reassurance
and sympathy might be of the
greatest help. In specific cases
I have in mind the staff, from the
superintendent down, did every-
thing in their power to help the
patients, knowing full well that
the best treatment of all was in
the patients’ own homes, and this
was denied them. There are
cases of family ingratitude and
selfishness that rival those in
“King Lear.”
Most mental hospitals, too,
are old and overcrowded, and
the original gloomy and forbid-
ding nature of such places clings
to them. Behind everything lies
the apathy of politicians.
Patients, after all, represent no
considerable voting-power to
any political party.
ROCK-WALLABY
N.S.W.
I climbed towards the glazed blue-green
deeps of night that lay between
the mountain and the spur; through dead
dwarf scrub 1 reached the mountain’s head.
Below, far in the desert, lay
the range’s crumbling vertebrae,
where crater, range and meteorite
sank down into the flood of night.
In that lost world of barren stone
I lived and breathed and moved alone,
when, huge against the night, to block
my way, rose up the silent rock,
the primal rock, that rose and stood
regarding me and froze my blood,
became, with one stone-clattering sound,
the huge rock-wallaby at a bound.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


ě
POWER OF ROSES
by Ruth Park
Miss Park’s latest novel is set in
the slums of Dawes Point. She
vividly depicts the vitality and
humour, the deep affections and
faiths of her startlingly life-size
characters.
16/- (post 7d.)
THE FACE OF AUSTRALIA
by Charles F. Laseron
The story of Australia’s scenery.
Telegraph says: “His survey is ao
thorough that he doesn’t .miss an
irhportant area . . . the best book
of its kind about the Australian
scenery.’’
21/- (post 7d.)
Write , 'phone or call in for these> or any of the new books now available at
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St.,. Melbourne, C.l
continually to be awakened and forced to
drink.”
In a second Swiss attempt in the
autumn of the same year one of the
porters was killed in a fall of ice, three
others slid 600 ft. down the Lhotse
glacier, and, “constantly harried by
violent winds” in a temperature of minus
40 C.—“in short, it could not be endured
by mortal men” —the party was forced
back at 26,575 ft.
Murray’s splendid book ends with the
summary: “The ninth British expedi-
tion is now preparing to go out to
Everest in the spring of 1953. Are their
chances of the summit any better than
before? There is a sense in which it
might be said they are. The two Swiss
expeditions have provided most valuable
information, and the experience of the
last 31 years are at the disposal of all
mountaineers who care to learn from
them. . . .No expedition, however strong
and energetic, can hope to win the sum-
mit unless it be aided by three major
strokes of good fortune, which must all
concur: freedom from high wind near
the top; no deep powder on the slopes
below or above the south col; and the
right man high at the right time. v . The
true value of these expeditions wall not
be found at the moment of victory, or of
defeat, but in the striving and discover-
ing for which all men are made.”
A Hill In Korea
Take a platoon of British soldiery;
give them a young, untried officer; a
sergeant with north-Africa and Nor-
mandy experience behind him; a tough
and Rabelaisian corporal who is a genius
with a Bren; trap them with a Chinese
company for company on top of a
wooded hill with its crowning temple as
their cover; add a highly competent
chronicler of the fight; and you have, in
Simon Kent’s A Hill in Korea (Hutchin-
son), a tight-packed, extremely well-
handled novel of the Korean war.
Independent command, because its
isolation makes or breaks the com-
mander in double-quick time, offers
excellent opportunities for portraying
character; and, step by step, whether
running, crouched, to engage the swarm-
ing enemy, or running, gasping, to escape
his fire, 'Mr. Kent draws his soldiers
powerfully through what they do under
these circumstances, and the way in which
they do it.
The platoon, searching through a
deserted village, is trapped by two prongs
of the converging enemy. The lieutenant
in charge disposes his rear-guard, watch-
ing the enemy columns in the dust with
one eye, struggling mentally to find some
appropriate advice in the Army manual
with the other. He sends the main body
of his command to safety' under the
sergeant, checks the enemy temporarily
with three men, only to find his position
relieved from the rear by his own platoon
—cut off from escape. Then follows a
most vividly-described drag up the hill,
in drenching rain, to the temple, the last
stand.
Inside the age-old structure, having
disposed his sentries and cleared the line
of approach of underbrush, the lieutenant
waits; and prevents disaffection from
contact with the platoon's proven coward
from spreading by reading to his men
Hakluyt’s description of the repulse of
the Spanish Armada.
Then comes the main attack, dramati-
cally and crisply handled. In its descrip-
tion of men toiling under the extremities
of fear and danger, in its presentation of
quiet gallantry and of tremendously real
atmosphere, the book is very much like
T. A. G. Hungerford’s The Ridge and
the River— and very nearly as good.
Two Cricket Books
Not as many people watch cricket
nowadays as the various football codes,
yet more space continues to be given to
cricket on the newspaper sporting pages,
and on the average 30 cricket-books are
published in London every spring—far
more than on football.. Why?
In Bumper (Latimer House), their
fourth book in collaboration, Keith
Miller and R. S. Whitington say that
“cricket is a talking and reading sport,”
and for every one person who goes to
watch, hundreds will read and discuss
what they read. Also, cricket “has
attracted a class of writer of far higher
literary attainment than has any other
sport, with the possible exception of
boxing.”
Bumper has enough literary quality,
along with a real wealth of anecdote,
cricket lore and practical suggestion for
making the game a more attractive spec-
tacle, to give it an assured place among
cricket-books.
Highlights, which include a foreword
from Mr. Menzies, are: a controversial
chapter on Bradman; an amusing
account of a faked radio-broadcast, in
a Perth hotel, of an England-Australia
Test—when, unknown to the guests, rain
had prevented play; and a couple of
stories, told against himself, relating to
Arthur Mailey’s ambition to become a
successful landscape-painter in oils.
The first chapter, on the subject which
provides the book’s title, says just about
the last word on bodyline and the
bumper ; it carries on from where the last
chapter of the authors’ previous book.
Straight Hit, left off.
One or two faults of Straight Hit per-
sist. There is still needless repetition of
remarks and phrases: the bodyline attack
more than once “rocked the cricketing
world to its foundations,” Plum Warner
is described two or three times as the
“Prime Minister of Cricket.”
Some minor errors have crept in. Eng-
lish Test fast-bowler Ken Fames played
for Essex (not Kent); fellow Essex and
England speedster Nichols is misspelled
several times Nicholls ; Ring took 6-72
(not 6-82) in the first Test last year
against S. Africa ; and there is failure
to distinguish between Ken and Ron
Archer.
Another bright and well-written book
is Talking of Cricket—the title, inci-
dentally, has been used before —by lan
Peebles (Museum Press). The author is
a former English Test slow-bowler, who
writes pleasantly of the players he has
met and the. cricket he has seen.
Peebles wrongly states (twice, in differ-
ent chapters) that Fleetwood-Smith played
for N.S.W.—he played all his State
cricket for Victoria ; and McCabe’s score,
in his famous anti-bodyline innings on
Sydney Cricket Ground in December,
1932, was 187 (not out), not 189.
K.R.
Reviewed Briefly
Baltasar Gracian, S.J., author of
Oraculo Manual y Arte de Prudencia,
or The Oracle, a Manual of the Art of
Discretion, translated by L. B. Walton
(Dent), was born 1601; a brilliant priest
whose writings made him always a
little too hot to hold. His announcing
in a Valencia pulpit that he had received
“a letter from hell” got him sent to the
wars as an army chaplain, and he “wit-
nessed some frightful scenes of slaughter
and a number of atrocities” ; he became
Professor of Holy Scripture at Zaragoza,
but here disapproval of his writings,
notably his Criticdn, a satirical novel,
caught up with him, and he died “dis-
graced, embittered and in poor health”
at Tarazona in 1658. The Oracle is a
set of 300 maxims selected from his
other writings; terse and disillusioned,
not to say cynical, they are reminiscent
of nothing so much as Bacon.
* * * . *
The Year’s Best Science Fiction Novels
(Grayson and Grayson). Four stories
comprise this anthology, edited by E. E.
Bleiler and T. E. Dikty. The first is
about an electronic brain that becomes
capable of independent thought and
makes West best in an East-West atomic
war ; another has the appealing idea of
people on a planet somewhere who
'frustrate their attempted government-by-
regulation from a space-ship full of
bureaucrats by ignoring them. To those
are added an engineer who builds a
time-machine (unfortunately without a
reverse gear) which whizzes him so far
into the future that he eventually catches
up with himself before he leaves ; and
finally a man from the future trying to
hide in the twentieth century from his
hunters. Science-fiction addicts will
wallow in it.
* * * *
The Desperate Search: Arthur Mayse
(Harrap). Arthur Mayse has previously
been noted on this page as writing an
excellent adventure-yarn. In this book
the theme is very slight but the drama
is intense and the characters and situa-
tions are briskly and expertly handled.
The children, a boy of eight and a girl
of two, of Vince Ardagh, a charter-pilot,
are the only survivors of a plane which
crashes in North American mountain
country. Ardagh and his wife, a famous
film-star, are divorced. The children live
with her, suffering from her cold and
selfish lack of affection. They are travel-
ling alone on an annual visit to their
father when the crash occurs. Ardagh
is determined to find the crashed plane,
and the action see-saws back and forth
between the children, the father, his
friends and a sympathetic woman-
journalist who helps him in his search.
Lost children in North America not only
have exposure and the risk of starvation
to contend with, but various wild animals
such as bears and cougars, and in dealing
with these hazards the boy shows admir-
able resource.
* * * *
Grave Example: Barnaby Dogboit
(Heinemann)." Somewhere about the
fourth chapter this novel ceases to appear
merely as heavy-handed burlesque and
becomes genuinely and deliciously funny.
It is, to some extent, as if the Brahms and
Simon team of wits had transferred their
manner across the Atlantic. In a South
American medical school Dean Nimble-
wit is to have a testimonial portrait of
himself painted. The Faculty have to
raise $2OOO and a painter. Enter Rem-
brandt Biggin son, painter, and his Persian
cat Vigee Lebrun, not to mention a
tame white mouse, Angelika Kauffman.
At the same time Susan Nimblewit, the
Dean’s daughter, is coping with two
suitors: Wish O’Hoe, son of the local
political boss, and Rufus Crotey, an
anatomist with an occasional stammer.
A third suitor, Fido, O’Hoe Jnr.’s body-
guard, is an idiot savant with a genius
for medicine who lumbers through the
book—a very important character. The
ramifications of the plot and the niceties
l of other characters are too involved for
brief description—as the writer of a most
misleading dustcover blurb (he marries
the heroine to the wrong man) appa-
rently discovered.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 232
Across
I—Ask Barnaby to meanly envy
another’s good fortune. (8)
S—N.S.W.5 —N.S.W. town is to go in among
the tail-enders. (6)
10 — The convulsions of the com-
munist sweetmeats. (7)
11— —The French or a couple join the
British fleet when past all useful-
ness. (7)
12— Car renovation often demands
this utensil by a river and a little
bell-ring. (5-7)
14 —Age. (3)
16 — Making an assignation with a
metal heart. (6)
17— If an influential Tibetan is back-
ing a beauty spot near Sorrento.
(6)
20-—ls Yours Truly a trans-Channel
pal? (3)
22—Write an article, and so have tea
in Paris. (3)
24 Noise heard with some * rowing
rabbit whose ears stick out hori-
zontally. (6)
25 — But this is by no means his rating
among Shakspearian comedians.
(6)
27 —He married Mohammed’s
daughter Fatima. (3)
29 —Clay pig’s memo held what Mel-
bourne had great difficulty in
holding. (7, 5)
32 Siberian river yearns for figures.
(7)
33 Where we are always getting into
hot water. (4-3)
34 — Gaiter to attack (he relations
with phosgene when the Georgia
is to hide while asking the wrong
way. (6)
35 — Clean-shaven model knowing of
a Red Indian state. (8)
Down
1 — Ladep. (9)
2 Doubling ego between a jewel
and a country. (10)
3 When all in the one plan, bite
Miss Turner in the Chaldean
capital. (9)
4 A bore might lead to this iul-
some admirer of Bluett and that
woman. (6)
6 Don’t stop the playbill alter
being passed on in a capital
suburb. (5)
7 Behold with approval to take a
gander! (4)
8— Woman is badly chewn. (5)
9 Fancy dress price to you and
me. (7)
13—Eugene, a lamous scholar and a
famous murderer and a famous
wool-producer. (4)
15—Catcher's glove on a duplicated
river. (5-5)
18—A hot angel in the town one alter
a boy goirt’ to Goliath’s home
town. (9)
19 —Half a fur may be bequeathed
over low-lying cloud. (7)
by will. (9)
21 —Fortune-teller elevates a comrade
23—Pin marks this cricketer. (4)
26—Vile about a seaman which is
capable of living. (6)
28—Hoot New Guinea or one of its
beloved fuzzy-wuzzy angels. (5)
30 — Monday in Paris. (5)
31— Jolson-like cry of despair. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 231


k
LJ
-
//
Vi
1
&
i'
- -' ' I
m
sS
ft
Si
W
W
-n m
BATTERIE
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with improved plates and separators designed to incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED. Birmingham Street. Alexandria. N.S.W.
' t-
IN AUSTRALIA
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd.,
St., Alexandria.
Birmingham
Smith Sons & Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Sydney Ltd " 55 ' 59 Wentworth Avenue.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St.,
Albury.
Queensland:
P- H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 6 1 Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
jas. Croker & Co., Mackay.
Victoria:
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia:
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., 15 Ackland St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St., Perth.
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart; T. & G.
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
WHEN YOU THINK BATTERIES
