

THE HOUSE
d d
SEPP E L T
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO » ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
Short-story: “BETTER THAN AUSTRALIA, NO?’'
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3897
Wednesday, October 20, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
LAVENHAM’S CHURCH IS THE PRIDE OF SUFFOLK
AN outstanding example of a Tudor village in Britain is Lavenham, six miles
from Sudbury in Suffolk. Here are to be seen timbered and pink-
washed cottages; some decorated with fleur-de-lis designs and surmounted
by a mitre, the emblem of Bishop Blaise, patron saint of the wool combers.
For four hundred years Lavenham has preserved its distinctive character and
today it appears very much the same as it did in 1578 when it was first visited
1 by Queen Elizabeth I.
Every street in the village has its own special attraction and in the
Market Square is the magnificent Guildhall dating from 1500. It was originally
a centre for local cloth merchants and belonged to the GuiTd of Corpus
Christi. The building now serves as a community centre. In 1951 it was
given to the National Trust by Sir Cuthbert Quilter and the Lavenham
Preservation Committee. Every feature of the building illustrates the Tudor
craftsmen’s skill in decoration.
Another impressive Tudor building js the Wool Hall, in Lady Street,
which was bought for demolition in 1911, but, due chiefly to the efforts
of Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll, it was restored and endowed for
posterity. It originally served as a market for the woollen merchants and
it still contains a fine timbered roof and a huge fireplace.
Also preserved in Lavenham are the Tudor shops and the Flemish
weavers’ cottages, which date from 1340. Other richly timbered buildings ox
particular interest are the Manor House and the de Vere House, dating tiom
1425. Here, too, is Shilling Old Grange, which contains secret passages and
hiding places; one in a chimney and another between a ceiling ana nooi.
In the 18th century the Grange was the home of Jane Taylor, who wiote that
most popular of nursery poems — Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.
Presiding over this picturesque Suffolk village is the splendid church
built in 1480 by John de Vere, 13th Earl of Oxford, and by Thomas Spring,
a wealthy local wool merchant. The whole church, in the Perpendicular style,
is notable for its breadth, light and airiness which is characteristic of Suffolk
churches. It is richly ornamented throughout with the heraldic device of the
de Veres and the arms of the Spring family.
Lavenham’s prosperity reached its peak in the 17th century, but after the
Civil War and with the coming of steam power its population, like that of
other Suffolk wool towns, steadily declined and only their magnificent
churches are a reminder of a former prosperity.


TRAINING PAYS
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Svduey; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1954) AGE
booksearching
is our business. We locate new or
out-of-print books in any language
Send to us for that book you can t
find ; we get results.
THE WAKELYS
C.p.o. Box 2656, Auckland, C. 1., N.Z.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIANS IN JAPAN
VX/ITH whatever feelings Australian
’ * soldiers went up to take possession
of Japan after the war, they seem mostly
to have come back chastened, saddened,
mortified, looking forward to a clean
country and a clean bath ; at any rate,
this is the feeling you get from Sowers
of the Wind by T. A. G. Hungerford
(Angus and Robertson) and Pattern of
Conquest by L. H. Evers (Currawong).
Mr. Hungerford’s book has been a
long time coming, since 1949, when it
won a prize in the Sydney “Herald” com-
petition ; and his later books, The Ridge
and the River and River slake, have noth-
ing to teach it—strangely enough it seems
to progress more easily and surely than
either of them ; and here the extraordin-
ary force of his prose, which has been
deprecated in the London “Tirpes” as
overdone, obviously by some writer who
has never met him or seen the portrait
of the ex-commando on the back of this
novel’s dustcover, is best accommodated
to his theme.
For the scene at Kure is brutal and
brutalising: scratch quarters, gaudy
dance-halls, blackmarkets, brothels,
clinics, love-nests, and everywhere the
bent backs of a beaten populace, the
best men expecting ill-treatment, the best
women hoping not to be raped—an open
go for a sadist, but for Mr. Hungerford’s
hero, Sergeant McNaughton, a dirty and
regrettable world, a sport in which the
victim doesn’t get an even break. He
soon runs up against an office-colonel in
an effort to get reasonable treatment for
Japanese gangs on the wharves. The
colonel takes his revenge by refusing
home-leave to a very young soldier, a
close friend of McNaughton’s civilian
fife, whose Sydney girl has dumped him
and whose Japanese girls have put him
into hospital, and the young soldier
jumps naked from the arm of a tall
crane to his death. The colonel then
moves to court-martial another of
McNaughton’s friends because of an
Indian soldier killed in a brothel-brawl;
and here McNaughton proceeds to take
photographs of the colonel and his girl-
friend on the beach, and with these
enforces his friend’s release from prison.
The novel works up to these con-
clusions through some superbly-staged
set-pieces: afternoon-tea with a Japan-
ese beer-baron, with an American official,
who lost two brothers in Changi, taking
it out of the Japanese hide ; a black-
market-deal with Japanese on a harbor-
boat followed by a riotous night of drink
and girls at the Japanese blackmarketeer’s
headquarters, with a murder to usher in
the morning; an at-home of the Ameri-
can official’s where a glamor-nurse who
has known too many men at too many
army establishments all over the world
is put through her paces ; and a brawl
begun by a negro in a dance-hall where
McNaughton meets the Japanese girl who
becomes his mistress, the parting with
whom completes the disillusion and dis-
gust of his departure from Japan.
Mr. Evers’s hero is a member of a line-
construction unit, who meets a Canadian-
educated Japanese girl who is dancing as
Puck in a Kyoto production of The
Midsummer Night’s Dream. She joins the
staff of the canteen in the town where
he has his headquarters, and keeps for
him an idyllic little nest. He does not
want to marry her, but the reason she
wants to marry him is that she wants a
passage to Australia. The unit’s tough-
guy, “Honest John,” cannot persuade the
hero to go into a blackmarket deal with
him, so he moves in on the Japanese
actress, returning from one of his nightly
A.W.O.L. excursions when the hero is on
guard-duty. The hero pops him full of
lead ; so that presumably the whole three
of them have reason for grief.
The scenes of Pattern of Conquest are
not as rich or riotous or varied as those
of Sowers of the Wind; but bear equally
the stamp of authenticity, both as to
army life and Japanese life: certainly
neither book makes the reader envious
of the troops who went, victorious, to
supervise a triumph.
Latest "Macnell" Novel
Unlike most sailors, who, allegedly,
carry an oar when they come ashore, J. E.
Macdonnell carried a typewriter when
he left the Navy after 14 years’ service.
A decrepit rattletrap of a machine, it
had a lean like a seafarer’s lurch and
more rust than a corvette’s cable. It
found its way into The Bulletin with
Macdonnell closely in tow and thereafter
clattered away with amazing industry
until it was pensioned-off and given a
berth for fife under a bookcase while its
labor was transferred to a smooth, stream-
lined portable.
The labor is considerable—Macdon-
neli’s output in a couple of years has
included uncounted short stories and
articles and the novels Valiant Occasions,
Gimme the Boats, Wings Off the Sea,
Jim Brady, Leading Seaman and another
novel with his publishers (Constable); he
is currently working on still another
novel, scripting two of his books for
radio and collaborating on the script of
a third radio series.
There is, possibly, in Jim Brady, his
latest published novel and the first of a
projected trilogy, a clue to all this indus-
try. It begins with Brady as a country-
bred Queensland boy:
The boy and his dog crept down the
sunlit landscape, carefully down the sand-
stone ridges golden with a froth of wattle-
blossom between the tall white gums....
Below them, unnoticed in the intensity of
their stalking, the huge valley dropped in
breathtaking swoops far down to the grass-
brown reach of the plain.... a wedgetailed
eagle sailed effortlessly in wide, smooth
sweeps, attracted by this movement
thousands of feet below in the wattle and
gums
and ends with Leading-Seaman Brady
making the tortured decision to order the
flooding of a burning magazine, thereby
drowning some of his companions but
saving his ship. His commander tells
him:
two things to say....you saved the
ship you did the correct thing. If you
hadn’t I’d have had you court-martialled.
Between that sunny opening and con-
cluding action Brady has most of the
varied experiences of games and work
and women .that boys and young men
are heir to, and out of them emerges his
one persistent characteristic.
When, as a tough, confident youngster,
he is soundly thrashed by another young
fellow, a trained boxer, he learns to box
and eventually returns the thrashing;
when he is snubbed by people from
the right side of the track he wins a
scholarship to the local grammar school;
when, as an ordinary seaman at the naval
training depot, he finds that he is not per-
mitted even to speak to a cadet from
the naval college, he turns assiduously to
study and, although he has not reached
commissioned rank by the end of the
book, he is on the way and obviously
will reach it before the trilogy is over.
The pattern is constant with each step
upwards —the feeling of slight or frus-
tration, the ambition, the grasp for know-
ledge, the work and the discipline. It is,
of course, a recognisable pattern of
human behavior, and, clearly threaded
as it is through Brady’s adventures, it
brings together the glimpses of him in his
work and play, in his fights and seduc-
tions ; it gives them a coherence and
solidity, and gives the character a reason
as well as its reasons.
Possibly, although they are better for
it, one should not look for psychological
patterns in stories of action, which, essen-
tially, is what Jim Brady is. It moves
along smartly with almost continuous
action and shows obviously the ease,
authority and enjoyment with which
Macdonnell takes hold of a naval engage-
ment with the Italian battle-fleet; how
the tensions and fears are strained against
the tight wire of discipline and then sent
up in an explosion of gunfire, splintered
steel and torn flesh when there is neither
room nor time for fears or tensions and
when, in the almost automatic responses
of the men to their tasks, the strength of
and reason for the discipline become
apparent.
And then, when it is over, the discipline
again—how swiftly and calmly the com-
plicated fury of a cruiser in action
becomes again a model of silent, waiting
efficiency.
Discipline! What an object-lesson to
young authors. Discipline all the way:
the clue to the Navy ; the clue to Brady’s
advancement; and, probably, the clue to
the industry of sailors who come ashore
carrying typewriters instead of oars.
O. F.
A New Pinney
The title of Peter Finney’s second
book of travels, Who Wanders Alone
(Angus and Robertson), doesn’t mean
that he has given up the girls who gave
him solace in almost every town in Dust
on My Shoes; still, the girls in this book
are fewer and more plausible; whether
this means that Mr. Pinney is growing
more selective in life or whether it means
that he is growing more convincing in aft
is too nice a matter to settle without a
royal commission.
In this book he goes from Trieste to
Zanzibar in the clothes he stands up in
and carrying only a string-bag; in the
Trieste elections he slaps up posters for
the Italian Liberals (having assured them
that there is a branch of their party in
Australia); in Yugoslavia he has no-
where else to sleep but with a girl-
student ; and, encountering passport diffi-
culties at the Macedonian border, he
makes friends with the Yugoslav mayor,
and so is passed on towards Greece,
meets old friends in Athens, also Anna,
a Dutch girl, with whom he disappears
into Italy and turns up in Tunisia. There,
after some trouble with a French colonel,
they separate ; but meet again in Algeria,
where she becomes a governess and he
a motor-mechanic ; then, sending her off
on a motor-trial competition to Cape
Town, he thumbs his way in trucks across
the Sahara into Nigeria.
In Kano, in the north of Nigeria, he
has one of his best days ; a fine scene
among the native mud-houses, and then
an adjournment to the home of a fat
native scribe who has befriended him,
followed by a wild night in a caravan-
serai in the African quarter, reminiscent
of Saturday afternoon in a Sydney pub.
As the fat one puts it:
“What, a day! Oh God, what a lovely
time we have had. I have not seen so
many wonderful things in one day in all
my life before!”
Next, in the Belgian Congo, there is an
incongruous scene of his meeting with a
Pole who had helped filch from him a
tall German girl before the book begins ;
the question is whether he will carry
one of the Pole’s suitcases through the
jungle, but when the Pole realises that
they are about to go on foot through
the Congo’s wild-fife reservation, he turns
back. And so on to Mau-Mau country
in Kenya, difficulties with the British
Army there, a meeting with an Australian
official and his wife, and exile to Zanzi-
bar, where he fives in a huge abandoned
mansion at Bubububu.
The games Mr. Pinney plays with pass-
ports, writing things in and arguing things
out, would turn an ordinary adventurer’s
hair grey; but whether or not you take
these, and the constant spread of rich
observation and detail and curious
encounters and conversations, with a
grain of salt, you must admit that this
is all very smooth and persuasive writing,
especially for an Australian; and that
this transcontinental tramp can lay claim
to being at least a literary gent, well
regarded in his own country.
There are many photographs to prove
that he was where he says he was, includ-
ing one of Anna setting out for Cape
Town.
Falconry
To most of us falconry suggests a scene
from one of Scott’s historical romances,
set in Europe or England; so that it
comes as a surprise to discover in Thun-
derbolt the Falcon by G. K. Thompson
(Dymock’s) that there are trainable
falcons in Australia.
His little 112-page book for boys tells
the story of two peregrine-falcons (the
eagle, vulture and merloun were for
emperors; gyrfalcons for kings; falcon
gentles for princes; falcons of the rocks
for dukes ; peregrines for earls ; buzzards
for barons; sacres for knights ; lanners
for esquires; merlins for ladies; hobbies
for young men; goshawks for yeomen;
goshawk tiercels, or male goshawks, for
poor men; sparrow-hawks for priests;
and kestrels for knaves or servants) and
the story is of how an Australian boy
and an English immigrant boy, with the
aid of the English boy’s grandfather, took
a female eyas (peregrine chick) from the
cliff-side nest, and trained it to hunt
birds.
Mr. Thompson, who is a member of
the Royal Australasian Ornithologists’
Union and the Royal Geographical
Society, makes a very interesting story of
the instruction of the young peregrine:
the hood, to teach her calmness and
poise among strangers ; hand-feeding that
gradually teaches her to come to the lure,
a leather-covered weight decked with
feathers around which her meat is
strapped. But although he lets Grand-
father Mannering describe the next pro-
cess of letting the falcon “have a go at
a live bird on the end of a long string,”
he slides delicately over this operation
in the actual training—and, indeed, when
young Joe gets his falcon working, and
sees it force a lark to earth, where it
flutters into his shirt-front, he gives the
game away, taking the falcon on a twenty-
mile train-journey and losing it.
Meanwhile, the reader has had the
enjoyment of a real literary novelty,
which far outweighs the occasional
gawkishness of Mr. Thompson’s “Aus-
tralian-bush” dialogue.
Two-bob Australian Novels
For some time the Frank Johnson
company has been dealing in mass with
single-fold reprints and originals of Aus-
tralian novels and novelettes at a florin
a time; neat pulp jobs with brightly-
colored semi-stiff covers.
So good are the covers, says J. B. Blair
of The Bulletin, somewhat between
apprehension and delight, that the por-
trait of the strip-tease girl inviting a Tudor
gallant to bed which adorns his Pardon
My Intrusion has been half pasted-over,
because the series was mentioned in some
Parliament or other: the girl, it seems,
is meant to be Queen Elizabeth, who is
distantly referred to on the last page of
this comic extravaganza about Eddie
Rumpelmayer, inventor of a time-
machine. Mr. Blair’s other contribution
to the series, No Train on Tuesday, the
protest of the N. S. Wales town of Terri-
gan against loss of its Tuesday train, and
its decision to secede from the State, has
a more decorous illustration of a bag-
piper being chaired by the populace.
John Carlshon, also not unknown to
The Bulletin, shared the Parliamentary
shivers with Mr. Blair because of the
naming of his Death of a Fan Dancer —
she was murdered in her dressing-room;
—but the type is full of propriety; and
Mr. Carlshon’s other work, Bullets Bite
Deep, is also a monument of virtue,
even to the convention that the bush-
rangers who stole the girl and took her
to their hut left her there purely as a
hostage, while they went back to arrange
the robbing of the bank—hardly the order
of business one would follow oneself.
Among the reprints are Flenrietta
Drake-Brockman’s pearling-novel, Blue
North, a good romance of early West
Australian tough life; W. S. Howards
gay (and true) story of three hard-cases
who produced a paper in a Sydney harbor
suburb during the depression, You re
Telling Me; and his Uncle Aetheired
comic about better-endowed Sydney
worthies, Excuse for Scandal; a Max
Afford thriller An Ear for Murder featur-
ing Jeffrey Blackburn ; and Will Lawson s
When Cobb and Co. Was King (bush-
ranging) and his slave-trading book, So
Freedom Came.
Then there is a Frank Walford
novel about a tough character who met
a beautiful girl-hiker down the south
coast and held-up an ocean-liner for the
gold-shipment, Gone a Million; G-
Vardy’s convict-story about a good con-
vict who was freed to become a surveyor
and after much trouble won the hand or
the squatter’s daughter, Bride for Sale.
and one might specially recommend The
Tollbar by R. W. Tullipan, the story ot
an ambush in which the bushrangers stop
all passengers along a road and keep t
herded together while they await
special coach. The construction and
characterisation of The Tollbar m
{Continued on page 34)


1
r
ijm
m
h*
ss«
'm§M
■ ■ '■': ''■:
\
'
' ' ' ' X : : '*. ' -
\Sv •••; . * •:
%. .'m
m
&■■ ••; e
vS : -'-'f , ; ■>:;■•
m
msm
mm
Ash about
the new “Captive Beauty"preparation in our
Yardley
beauty salon
Whether you’re surfing or sunning, playing tennis or golf, you need the right foundation. In
the careful hands of our experts, skin is given a new lease of life. .Yardley cosmetics are
designed in England to give you a peaches and cream complexion. Even during the hottest
Summer months, tired eyes, tired skins keep their secret. After a Yardley facial, you can
spend your day in the sun knowing that you’ll still look pretty special and specially pretty at
a party or dance. A Yardley facial is inexpensive and soon pays for itself in compliments.
Call in next time you are at Anthony Horderns’ or ring 80951 and make an appointment 1
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
d
ifARDLEY SALON, IN THE BEAUTY SALON ON THE SECOND FLOOR. WE DO PERMANENT WAVING. CHIROPODY, ETC. 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 20, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3897
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR" AND THE DEEP RED SEA
As the quarrels of the Federal “Labor” party roar to
a climax in the “secrecy” of the caucus-room, and the
equal secrecy of the daily press, they become more
and more fantastic. Somebody said at the Royal Com-
mission on Espionage that Dr. Evatt’s accusations of
conspiracy were like something out of Alice in Wonder-
land, but the Mad Hatter would sue for libel if he
were accused of some of the goings-on which have
graced caucus proceedings inside and outside the
debates.
The manner in which Dr. Evatt has succeeded in
evading the main issue would certainly do credit to a
hare, March or otherwise, though those who have been
coursing him have not been very adroit, and lack his
speed in changing direction. His has been an incredible
performance in manoeuvre —it is as if a prisoner were
trying the judge and jury. He appeared before the
espionage royal commission to defend two secretaries
who were accused of nothing more —and that on the
basis of a document allegedly written by an author
whose word nobody showed the slightest tendency to
take on anything whatever —than indulging in a little
political gossip with a Communist acquaintance. His
method of “defending” was to charge, without having
seen the document in which their names were men-
tioned, that it was a forgery fabricated in part to ruin
him and the secretaries and the “Labor” party ; that
the whole of the documents brought over by Petrov,
including the intricate Moscow letters —in Russian and
code—were therefore suspect of being forgeries; that
the Security Service had, without due care, bought the
whole lot holus-bolus, which it turned out on
irrefutable evidence that they hadn’t.
In process of bringing forward this extra-
ordinary set of charges the French Ambassador
was accused of spiriting away a woman who
is alleged to have given information to Petrov,
and with being a Vichy collaborator —which
he undoubtedly was not, as was easily demonstrable.
Dr. Evatt accused his own former press-secretary of
being involved in the conspiracy and of being a forger.
And he carried on all these proceedings sitting beside
the secretary of the Victorian branch of the Com-
munist party, conferring with him, prodding him,
advising him in cross-examination and being advised
by him.
When called upon for evidence to support all his
monstrous charges, in not one of which could the
commissioners or anybody else discover a grain of fact
or reality, his only concrete move was to declare, “I
want Dr. Bialoguski called.” And Dr. Bialoguski being
called proved, obviously to the surprise of Dr. Evatt’s
juniors and the Communist counsel, to be a Security
agent who swore —and produced a wire-recording to
substantiate material parts of his statement —that Mr.
John Rodgers, of Australia-Soviet House in Melbourne,
a well-known admirer and lauder of Moscow, had tried
to suborn him to give evidence to destroy the character
of Petrov. Mr. Rodgers, subpoenaed to give his version,
developed an illness which continued to tie him
to Melbourne during the remainder of the hearing.
And Dr. Evatt’s juniors—who, even after he had had
his leave to appear withdrawn, continued to emphasise
that he was their leader and directing their operations
in court —were induced only with difficulty to cross-
examine those whom they accused and Dr. Bialoguski.
When they did, they gave no inkling of why Dr. Evatt
had regarded him obviously as a crucial witness —the
only witness he asked to have called except a reputed
handwriting expert.
One would have imagined that the issue for dis-
cussion in caucus would have been both clear and
urgent. But this obviously is not so. Dr. Evatt has
found “a more vital matter which calls for priority.” It
appears to be, in short, the dastardly conduct of certain
members of the extreme Right-wing of the Federal
party who have been disloyal to the party in criticising
Dr Evatt and disapproving his unsupported allegation,
in association with the Communists, about a conspiracy
which did not exist. They are accused also of intro-
ducing a sectarian element into the party. Dr Evatt
told them severely at the last meeting of caucus that he
intends to report their conduct to the Federal Executive
at its next meeting, and he has expressed his specific
intention of dealing with a supposed Catholic Action
cave which is disrupting the party, and whose chief
conspirator, it turns out, he gravely consulted on policy
before the Federal elections,
A further issue that appears to be urgent enough
to displace discussion on Dr. Evatt is the gross disloyalty
of members who sell for traitors’ gold the secrets of
the caucus debates, which for years have been held with
the privacy of a free fight on the Sydney Showground.
In fact it seems that almost everybody in the caucus
is guilty of something serious except Dr. Evatt, Mr.
Ward, Mr. Pollard and others who happen to sound like
political echoes of Jock Garden, and who, in conse-
quence, are not classed among what the capitalist daily
press described in a horrified whisper as the “extreme
Right wing.”
Any reasonable man might have imagined that
after Dr. Evatt’s performance before the royal com-
mission and his failure even to attempt to prove, the
wicked accusations which he formulated before that
tribunal, a very large proportion of the members of
caucus would feel that before any other explanations
were given one from the Doctor would be very much
in order. It will be surprising if Parliament does not
take that view when the Petrov commission’s formal
report is laid on the table. One would have thought,
indeed, that Dr. Evatt, if he has a case, would have
courted the earliest opportunity of making his explana-
tion, And, failing that, any sensible observer might
feel that there is at least something to be said for the
view expressed by Mr, Johnson, a former Ministerial
colleague of the great world statesman, that “Dr.
Evatt should recognise that he was not fit to be leader
and get out.”
There is, however, apparently a strong section of
caucus, led, of course, by Comrade J. S. Garden’s
ex-boon companion Mr. Eddie Ward, and Mr. Pollard,
who are perfectly satisfied with Dr. Evatt, as no doubt
is also Comrade Malenkov, whom the “Labor” party
professes to hate. And there are other very large
sections which prefer to sit on a rail and await events.
In fact, Dr. Evatt is said to have the support of a
majority of caucus in his proceedings—perhaps today’s
meeting will tell.
Dr. Evatt has undoubtedly placed himself in a
position in which he should go before a Committee
of Privileges to have it decided whether or no he
should be allowed to continue to sit in the House of
Representatives. But it is not easy for caucus to deal
with him. It is between the devil and the deep Red
sea. To make him walk the plank needs the election
of a new pirate chief, and the choice is limited. There
is Mr. Ward, who would scarcely command support
from anybody—except, perhaps, Dr. Evatt and the
extreme Left-wing. There is Mr, Calwell, an aspirant
already in the field, who could only give the country
government-by-brainstorm if he should ever become
Prime Minister and whom the Leftist unions, which
finance the party to an extent which places it in their
power, would look askance equally with the “Right
wing.” There is Mr. Alan Fraser, an open candidate
for the position of dauphin, who in his higher flights
of statesmanship behaves like a school Rugger
captain struggling with the role of W. E. Gladstone
in the annual breaking-up play. And there is Mr. Dan
Curtin, who knows more about prawn-selling than
about politics; and beyond him the agglomeration of
“financiers,” publicans, ex-bookies, prosperous lawyers,
ex-I.W.W. and ex-Communists who make up the rest
of the so-called party, with a small leaven of fanatics,
and a smaller one of decent trade-union leaders of the
types of Eli Harrison and P. J. Clarey, and idealists
like Duthie and Anderson.
In the present circumstances there seems little
hope for the so-called “Labor” party. It lives, in the
State field, scented with the breath of scandal, and in
the Federal sphere in a Red glare, the source of which
is all too 'obvious. It has, in any case, outlived its
usefulness. There is nothing left for it to fight for.
It has become a noisy excrescence, disgraceful to the
country in its proceedings, productive of strife, obstruc-
tive to progress, used by every pressure-group and
element which wishes to sabotage tranquillity and
development, and at intervals alike by the Commtmist
unions and the Doyles and the Vitnells. It has been of
late so blown upon that it is time it was either cleansed
of its careerist, non-“ Labor” elements and made over
into something to square with the needs of the times, or
abolished by popular indignation. It has ceased to be
any credit to Australia. Parliament needs a strong
Opposition to be properly workable. But the present
manoeuvring atrocity certainly does not serve its
purpose.
Convertibility-When?
In circles where such things are discussed, with or
without authority, the word “revaluation” was two or
three years ago regarded as a kind of keynote to all
problems of internal and external finance; after a
gallant fight it died suddenly from galloping inflation.
Recently its place as a recommended panacea tor
economic ills has been taken by “convertibility.
Looking back to the days—not so long ago as
measured by calendars and Christmas-cards, but by
less meticulous reckoning a whole age away—wen
most of the world’s currencies were freely interchange-
able, and one’s ability to purchase goods from a
foreign country was limited only by the necessity of
having cash or credit with which to pay for them, it
is impossible not to wish that those serene days weie
with us again.
But wishes are one thing; their realisation,
another. The return of convertibility would be
welcomed if its achievement meant that world-trade
had settled down to a stable pattern that was once
again almost self-regulating. But to rush into converti-
bility without the prerequisites for stability being
present and in the hope that they will follow in its
train is to put the cart before the horse.
It may be taken for granted that the Finance
Ministers of the sterling-area countries and of
those associated with them in the Organisation
for European Economic Co-operation are fully
seized with the importance of keeping these
objectives in proper sequence. It is almost
two years since the British Government, after
consultation with other Commonwealth countries,
announced that “the re-establishment of the converti-
bility of the pound sterling should henceforward be
considered to have a high priority.” At that time,
December, 1952, the Governments of the Common-
wealth countries agreed on three conditions which they
considered indispensable to convertibility:
1. They must avoid inflation and increase the
production of exportable goods.
2. Other countries must adopt commercial policies
which favor the expansion of world-trade.
3. Sufficient reserves must be built up, either
through the agency of the International Monetary
Fund or by other means.
When Mr. R. A. Butler made his first speech as
Chancellor of the Exchequer in November, 1951, he
had to tell the Commons that a further dollar-deficit
of 320 million dollars had been added for October to
the 838 million dollars reported by his predecessor at
the end of September. In addition, the deficit with
the European Payments Union had increased by £B9
million to £272 million. This trend, he said, threatened
the whole sterling-area. Immediate steps taken by
Britain to meet the situation included temporary
import-cuts, the raising of the bank-rate, an excess-
profits tax and the funding of part of the floating debt,
the long-term remedy was to encourage the country
to produce more and export more.
The success of this policy and of corresponding
measures adopted in Europe is shown by the fact that
the trade-deficit of O.E.E.C. countries with America
had fallen from 2600 million dollars in 1951 to 850
million dollars by the end of 1953. In recent months
Britain has considerably reduced her indebtedness to
the European Payments Union and has wiped out all
borrowings from the International Monetary Fund
since 1947. This has happened since the meeting in
London in July of the Finance Ministers of 0.E.E.C.,
when they discussed with representatives of Canada
and the United States some of the problems that would
be raised by a concerted move towards convertibility.
Of that meeting W. T- C. King, editor of “The Banker,”
London, said:
It is agreed, first, that the approach should be a
Collective one. On the one hand, if Britain had ever
toyed with the possibility that sterling might “go
it alone,” she has long since abandoned that idea.
On the other hand, the two or three Continental
countries that for a time have been impatient to
plunge ahead are now convinced that they should not
move unless sterling moves; but they agree to move
with sterling, or “five minutes afterwards.”
Pointing out the increasing use of sterling as an
international currency in non-sterling, non-dollar areas,
Mr. King comments:
This huge usage of sterling makes it very plain
that, if convertibility were introduced without ade-
quate safeguards or in otherwise unpropitious cir-
cumstances, it would be upon sterling that the major
strain would fall.
The Finance Ministers are to meet again on
November 1.
In Sydney last week economist L. G. Melville
told the Constitutional Association of N. S. Wales that
with inflation now under control in the sterling-area
the prospects for early convertibility were promising;
sterling-area gold-and-dollar reserves were not high
enough to guarantee the move, but he thought the
United States might help to underwrite the balance.
He seemed to think the main obstacle was political
rather than economic ; with an election not far off the
British Government might be dubious about taking a
step which could be politically unpopular. From an
Australian viewpoint he felt that convertibility was
• very desirable; it would enable us to buy in the most
suitable markets and probably more cheaply. It would
also make more accessible the dollar capital that was
necessary to our development.
As long as we shelter behind inconvertibility
there will be a tendency for inflation and rising
prices and costs. Only when manufacturers are ex-
posed to the world-markets can they overcome tins
difficulty.
There can be little doubt as to the ultimate
desirability of free exchange; the real problem is
when?
But anyone who imagines that immediate con-
vertibility provides an easy solution for our financial
troubles should do a little hard thinking. Last month
Australia had an overseas-trading deficit ot tUi
million. This was the fifth consecutive adverse monthly
balance, and the total deficit for the July-Septembe
quarter was £55 million; to this must be added the
deficit on invisible imports. It is this adverse trade-
balance that has forced the Government to rei mpose
import-restrictions to preserve London funds vvo -
prices are down, not catastrophically, but still down,
wheat-prices have fallen steeply and, through lack
rain, wheatfarmers face the further problem o
considerably reduced crop, particularly ini New - bmm
Wales. And since wool and wheat are the two
important items on our overseas-earnings Lst
be taken for granted that the total export-cheque or
1954-55 will be lower than last year s on
sellers of wool and wheat are also good s P® n , ■
the home-front it follows that their lowered buying
power will be noticed by local industry.
For Australia the emphasis mist s fjL^ cti °°
getting costs down and keeping them down, i jpe
of whether convertibility is just around the c
over the hills and far away


“I COME TO BURY CAESAR, NOT TO PRAISE HIM!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
From Malenkov to Mao
The visit to China by a number of
highest-ranking Soviet leaders came very
quickly after the visit of Mr. Attlee and
his party, and seems to suggest that
the West is making too much impression
on the Chinese for Russian liking.
The communique announcing the new
agreement suggested that the Russians
are working to make the liaison between
the two countries closer, and yet are in a
position to dictate their own terms.
If they had any fears that they could
not control the Chinese association with
Moscow they would hardly be likely to
hand over Dairen to the Chinese —even
though it is not a large port it is a useful
one strategically. It might be particularly
useful in case of an all-out attack on
Formosa with a feint at Korea.
The other features of the agreement,
apart from its tone, are not very hopeful
for peace in the Far East. They seem
rather like a prelude to putting China on
a war footing and to the cleaning-up of
Formosa and possibly of other areas, and
are quite incongruous with the smooth
readiness of Vishinsky at U.N.O. to
discuss peace on unprecedented bases.
The communique issued in Peking
described Red China and Russia in the
old terms —as forming jointly “a bul-
wark of peace” in the Orient. And it
was, like most previous communiques,
insulting to the United States, which it
charged with committing “direct acts of
aggression against the Chinese People’s
Republic,” declaring that “the continued
occupation by the U.S. of Formosa, as
well as military and financial aid to
Chiang Kai-shek,” were “incompatible
with the task of maintaining peace and
lessening international tension.” It
attacked Anzus as “an aggressive military
bloc aimed against the independence of
Asian countries.”
The material help which Russia pro-
poses to give the Chinese includes the
building of new supply rail-links to
Russia, access to minerals and to oil in
Sinkiang, aid for construction of 155
industrial plants and increased supplies
to 141 already under construction. It
can be taken for granted that these are
all of military importance.
There appears to be no doubt that
Mao’s plan for the complete domination
of Eastern Asia by 1960 is in being, and
that if it is pressed to a conclusion it
must lead to world war.
The easy manner in which the Soviet
Union is agreeing to negotiate in U.N.0.,
its surprise acceptance of the Trieste
Pact, under which Italy and Yugoslavia
will share in the administration of that
trouble-spot under U.N.0., and the
Russian agreement under a Canadian
resolution to refer the disarmament
problem to a Five Power Committee, with
only minor alterations in the text of the
resolution, would be most hopeful signs
in dealing with any other nation. But
pacific Soviet action usually is designed
to distract attention from some belliger-
ent or hostile move.
This one comes so close to the Russo-
Chinese agreement that it is open to
suspicion, though the world hopes that
suspicion is not justified.
British Aircraft Back
After an absence of nearly a decade-
and-a-half British aircraft return to the
service of the Australian civil air-
transport.
That British machines have not been
serving is not the fault of British designers
or builders, but a matter for pride. They
pioneered long-distance flying in the
world. They pioneered civilian transport.
They showed the way in aerial defence
before the war —when they produced the
Lancaster, the Spitfire, the Hurricane —
and during it, when they came up with
the Mosquito and the jet ahead of every-
body. They produced radar, which has
meant so much to the safety of flying,
and many another device.
Their aircraft-engines from Rolls-Royce
and Bristol have been ahead of every-
body, the envy of the world, the proto-
types of the power-units of every country,
not excluding Russia, whose MIG engine
was developed from the Rolls-Royce
Nene.
The only reasons why the British have
not been in civil flying in Australia since
the war is that they have been otherwise
occupied. In peace, as in war, they take
the long view and move slowly to
perfection, and when they arrive they
have something with which other people
have difficulty in competing. They could
have come into the transport field much
earlier, but they waited till it could be
done with full effectiveness.
And now the Australian airlines which
began with the D.H.’s one-passenger
open-cockpit jalopies—they pioneered the
airmail routes to England with DH 86’s
and followed up with the civil Sunderland
flying-boats, some of the most comfortable
and secure old skyscrapers ever to touch
cloud and water, then the Lancastrians,
which pioneered the commercial routes
to Japan—return to a policy of using
British machines with the Vickers-
Viscount, which comes out of the same
stable as the Vickers-Vimy, in which
Ross and Keith Smith made the first
flight from England in 1919.
The Viscount already is a familiar
sight on European airways. In B.E.A.
it serves every route. It will soon be a
familiar sight also in the United States,
some of whose airlines have adopted it —
a crowning triumph in a country inured
to* the reliable DC 3’s and DC 4’s, the
faithful Douglases which have borne the
burden of expansion during the war and
afterwards in Britain’s new experimental
period.
The Viscounts are 32 - passenger
machines intended primarily for inter-city
flying, economical to the point at which
they can compete with any other
passenger-machine off its wheels. They
introduce the era of the jet-turbine
kerosene-burner to Australia, and with it
almost-silent, quick take-off and com-
pletely stable sky-travel, and schedules
between Sydney and Melbourne under
two hours.
They are something Australia as well
as Britain can be proud of, in view of
the great part which Australians have
played in the development of British
flying technique.
The 'Tress Gallery"
There has been a certain amount of
twittering in the Press Gallery in Canberra
since the Petrov commission disclosed
something of O’Sullivan’s document of
gossip—without giving the names.
Members of the gallery felt that some
of them might be publicly identified,
rightly or wrongly, with some of the
less pleasant descriptions typed for
Russian information by the young man
who was later elected secretary of the
gallery, and subsequently became press-
secretary to Dr. Evatt. Their feeling is
understandable, but they might have more
general sympathy if there were any signs
of an attempt to make the gallery more
conscious of its responsibilities,
‘The Gallery” is the generic name for
the reporters sent to Canberra by the
newspapers and the cable and radio news-
services. Some of those reporters,
especially the “heads of services” who
jealously guard their privileges of in-
clusion on the diplomatic list for parties
. and other rights of entree, term them-
selves “political correspondents.” Others
are merely the efficient shorthand-writers
who take a more-or-less full record of the
debates in the two Houses, and whose
efforts are so curtailed by the newspaper
sub-editors that the public reads little of
the discussions except when a brawl
occurs.
The gallery, therefore, has no control
over the actual identity of its own mem-
bers, although it can discuss with the
President of the Senate and the Speaker
of the Reps the admission to the
“privileges” it enjoys of persons not
attached to daily newspapers or
recognised news-services. O’Sullivan
continued to be a member of the gallery
while he was with Evatt. Chiplin, of the
“Tribune,” is still permitted to come into
the actual press gallery of the House to
make notes of the debates, and to go to
the refreshment bar which the press
shares with such other forms of House-
life as Ministerial secretaries, chefs,
cleaners and gardeners. Lockwood,
during past visits to Canberra, has often
used the same bar without challenge.
The royal commission was told,
correctly, that members of the gallery
frequently hear from Ministers and
others confidential matter of some
national importance. This is usually
communicated to give the political
writers some necessary background in
their assessment of affairs, and for
passing on to editors. It was also told by
O’Sullivan that all journalists gossip,
which was one of the excuses for placing
on paper some of the juicy, scurrilous
and untrue things he had been told in the
course of such gossiping. This combina-
tion of affairs gives its own warning and
points the way to improvement.
The membership of the gallery and
entree to all its facilities should be most
carefully scrutinised by those whom its
members elect to its committee. The
committee should be in a position to
suggest to the proprietors of newspapers
and news-services that even the most
junior reporter sent to the national
capital should be a man (or woman) of
sufficient self-respect and integrity to
refrain from the backstairs kind of talk
which has led to so much trouble.
There are too many people, in Parlia-
ment and out of it, only too anxious to
decry the journalists and all their works.
The best answer, the most effective
remedy, lies in the gallery’s own hands.
What a Choice!
“In the ACT”: By some kind of osmosis
the word went round Parliament House
that if the “Doc” unexpectedly stepped
down from the leadership, or was thrown
out, the post would go to Arthur Calwell,
with Allan Fraser as his deputy. There
were whispers that the numbers were
right—-although some of Evatt’s hench-
men were going around saying this
wasn’t so, and that support from the
States during the week would swing
enough under the Doc.’s banner to save
him, at least for the time being.
The atmosphere in the “Labor” lobby,
in short, was a mixture of Waterloo-eve
and of Tammany on the day before the
precincts poll. In the House itself Bill
Bourke, of Fawkner (Vic.), added to the
general atmosphere of gloom and con-
fusion by asking about the interim report
on Document J, and referring to the
extraordinary conduct at the* Petrov
commission of “eminent counsel.” This
reminded ..the “Labor” boys, if they
needed reminding, not merely of Evatt’s
antics at the commission but also that
the interim report would be before the
House any day now. The thought did
not cheer them up noticeably.
The element of farce (except for those
most intimately concerned) was increased
by the notion that Evatt’s charges against
some still-unnamed members might yet
come before the A.L.P. next month,
whatever the upshot of a prior vote on the
leadership. There was also the spectacle
of “Ned” Ward and Evatt in close and
cordial cahoots. One of the Doc.’s critics
remarked dryly that Ward was never
known to be on the winning side, and
that his current bid for the deputy-
leadership would be his last and most
resounding failure. Another said sourly
that the only hope for “Labor” would be
the disappearance from public life of
both Evatt and Ward.
Throughout it all, Calwell preserved a
most discreet silence. Fraser, having
made a broadcast protest against the
introduction of sectarianism (and having
been promptly and publicly rebuked by
the Doc.), followed this example, except
to deny in his regular Sunday-night
broadcast on Oct. 17 that he belonged
to any party faction and that speculation
about lus standing for the deputy-leader-
ship was “guesswork—good or bad
guesswork.” It seemed pretty plain
that their tactics' would be advocacy
of the old principles of solidarity
and of V secrecy so far as caucus
is concerned. But the prospect
was not encouraging for those who were
most anxious to depose Evatt but were
hopeful at the same time of finding
leaders with some public appeal. It might
be that Calwell and Fraser, if elected to
the leading posts, would undertake the
Opposition’s neglected task of opposing,
but neither of them could be regarded as
having the qualities or the background
likely to influence favorably the
browned-off swinging voters. Calwell’s
record was too recent and well-known to
be forgotten, and Fraser’s humorless
and sometimes venomous characteristics
would not commend him to that majority
of voters who had hitherto never heard
of him.
It was a choice between the devil and
the deep Red sea. The tasks for “Labor,”
in Parliament and in the A.L.P., were to
clean-up its own camp, try to regain
some vestige of public esteem, and plan
a policy and a campaign which might
lead to electoral success in the unfore-
seeable future. Where were the leaders
who could undertake these formidable
jobs boldly and successfully? Were they
sitting on the back-benches today, or had
they still to be elected to Parliament?
No one in caucus seemed to know. All
that many caucus members knew was that
Evatt must go before long.
Licensing-trusts
Early hopes and forecasts that the
licensing-trust movement would sweep
New Zealand and would show the big
brewery- and hotel-owning concerns how
the trade should be run have been fading
quickly under the squeeze of soaring
costs. The only trust that has done any
good is the first, at Invercargill, founded
just over ten years ago, which got a
footing when costs were moderate and
had certain other advantages, including
a big, prosperous area for its monopoly ;
yet its profits have been on the down-grade
for the last couple of years. As for the
other three founded under the Licensing
Trusts Act —in the Masterton, Geraldine
and Ashburton districts they’re all
financially in deep water and are
struggling under heavy capital burdens.
A chain of five hotels, one of five-star-
plus grading, makes the Invercargill trust
look opulent against the others. It should
have strength enough to meet any trials
that come its way, and it’s the only one
in this position.
Next in age, the Masterton Licensing
Trust passed its seventh birthday with-
out celebrations, and has admitted a loss
of £12,879 for the latest year. Said it
couldn’t make ends meet under price-
control when everything was costing
more, but brewery cos. have done it and
paid good divs. Each year seems harder
for a concern that can’t pay its way, and
this trust is thinking only of preserving
its assets in its present fix.
As for the other two, now five-year-
olds, their lot is far from happy
since they launched out confidently in
their infancy and spent so much on
property, hotels and stores that their
earnings have been fully mortgaged.
What the outcome of all these trust
efforts will be is obscure, but the chances
are less rosy than those for State tourist
hotels, the majority of which have been
supported by the taxpayer for years and
years. '
Communism in Java
One of the changes going on in the world
today is the drift into the arms of Com-
munism taking place in Indonesia. Those
who knew the extent of Indonesian
Communist organisations in Australia
during the war and the efforts being
made by the Australian Communists
and their “Labor” fellow-travellers to
throw the friendly Dutch out of Indo-
nesia did their best to warn the authori-
ties of what the effect would be. But
Australian foreign policy at that time was
virtually dictated by Moscow. Dutch
ships were pelted and hooted on the
wharves by mobs of Red hoodlums, and
Dr. Evatt and his Dr. Burton and their
offsiders looked on complacently.
So did the British “Labor” Govern-
ment and the United States Government,
both insisting that there was no danger
of any Communist coup, denying that the
Communists had had any hand in the
revolution.
In plain fact the local political atti-
tude was accurately stated by the exultant
Mr. Clive Evatt, then a State Minister,
speaking to a Communist gathering of
Slavs at the celebration of Russia’s
national day of revolution in 1947;
To tlie north of Australia there is war.
I refer to Indonesia. It is pleasing to see
Australia and Russia united in a realistic
attempt to end this slaughter. The Aus-
tralian and Russian view is that the Dutch
must withdraw from the territory seized
from the Indonesians by force of arms....
Slanderous attacks on Russia today are
made to divert attention —they are strategic
“smokescreens” the “smokescreen” lies
like a pall across *the Indonesian Republic.
The view of “Australia” at that time was,
of course, dictated by Mr. Clive Evatt’s
distinguished brother, Dr. H. V. Evatt.
Now, the Communist organisers of
revolution who were too cunning to
attempt to take over in 1945-47 seem to
be on the verge of coming into their own.
Their powerful unions have done every-
thing they can to make the current Re-
public fail. They have succeeded in
producing food chaos, and they have been
working officially to obtain arms for the
kind of guerrilla organisation which the
British armed in Malaya and which was
able to initiate Communist rebellion
there.
The pretext for arming in Indonesia
is the supposed need to combat Moslem
terrorism ; but as soon as they feel strong
enough the Communists, who now osten-
sibly support the Government, will take
over. Then arms, aircraft, guns and
teams of Russian and Chinese organisers
will be moved in.
The day that happens somebody should
present Messrs. Evatt and Burton with a
testimonial in recognition of their unity
in the “realistic” attempt which in the
post-war years drove the friendly Dutch
out and sold the Indonesians into a state
of government by tommy-gun. It might
take the form of a free ticket (single) to
Djakarta.
Watersiders* Monopoly
It is quite obvious that a fight is develop-
ing between the Commonwealth Govern
ment and the Waterside Workers to
decide who is to govern the wharves,
which, in the conception of Messrs.
Healy, Roach and Nelson, are not apa
of Australia at all, but part of
U.S.S.R. De facto they come pretty close
(Continued on next page).


to the Watersiders’ conception, since they
are largely run by the union without
regard either to Australian Jaws or rights.
The shipowners, having become
thoroughly tired of this condition of
atfairs, have asked for the abolition of
the Stevedoring Industry Board, which
was created by the Chifley-Evatt Govern-
ment, and the present Government has
put forward for discussion an alternative
to the shipowners’ scheme. This plan
would give the employers the right
to decide who should or should not
work in the industry, make it necessary
to justify claims for attendance-money
following a dispute, alter the seniority
rule so that the employers could exercise
a choice in putting men out of the
industry, and provide for the introduction
of casual labor when it is needed at peak
periods.
It stands to reason that the W.W.F.
will unanimously oppose this scheme. It
will oppose any scheme which does not
make the Communists of the union
masters of the wharves and which does
not make the industry a closed corpora-
tion, able to sprag defence and carry out
all the Communist objectives of disrup-
tion, which are the primary aims of the
union’s policy, rather than the better-
ment and stabilising of the workers’
conditions.
Certainly some drastic tightening-up of
discipline is needed. There is not a port
in Australia which is not shorthanded,
though some of them need not be short-
handed if the men would do a decent
day’s work and do it regularly.
The process of introducing new men
into the industry is elaborate, and each
candidate must be passed by the union’s
executive, which naturally sees to it that
he will be docile and sympathetic to its
Communist policy, and by a general
meeting of the members of the union.
There is so much red-tape about the
matter that it takes months to add to the
labor force. Once a man is in the union
he is automatically employed, whether he
is a loafer or a good worker, by a
monopoly which will see that he is not
penalised for go-slow or being obstructive.
There is nothing the Communists would
like better in the interests of the Kremlin
than to see the whole sea-trade of the
Western countries break down altogether.
It certainly is up to the Government
to do something about the matter.
Though it is difficult to know, what can
be done without pushing the Communists
out of control, and seeing that afterwards
the union does not fall into the hands of
organisers who differ only from the Com-
munists in the prefix “ex” before their
descriptions.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Labor” is finding the game of “Fol-
low My Leader” harder and harder to
play.
• •
The Communist party is proving once
more that it leads the “Labor” move-
ment. The Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion was the first union to send out an
Australia-wide call to support Dr, Evatt
in his fight for liberty and the cause of
the Kremlin. The A.W.U. and other
“Rightist” unions are fallowing meekly
in the rear.
• •
The Soviet Union has agreed to the
Trieste Pact, under which Yugoslavia and
Italy will co-operate in the government
of the area. It is held up as a move to
produce peace; but anyone who has
seen the Yugoslavs and Italians in con-
tact would be more inclined to expect it
to produce pieces.
• •
Australia’s national debt at June 30
was £3,186,028,130 in Australia,
£351,179,029 stg. in London, 308,877,006
dollars in New York and 60 million Swiss
francs in Switzerland. (No roubles.) The
total annual interest-bill in Australian
currency is £115,029,000, which is some-
thing under £l3 a head of population. In
1939 it was about £7 a head. Allowing
for inflation, the burden is lighter today
than in 1939.
• •
National Service figures supplied by
Army Minister Jos. Francis show that
more than 65,000 lads liable for training
have not been called up. These comprise
12,918 in the July-August call-up still in
progress, 25,399 whose service has been
deferred or postponed for educational or
special-work reasons, more than 26,000
not yet summoned for med. exam, and
18,568 medically unfit. This latter is a
seriously large proportion of the total
registration of 190,000. The total num-
ber who have entered or completed train-
ing since inception of the scheme has
been 101,416, including only 31,710 in
1953-54. Registration for 1954-55 is
expected to be 55,000.
• •
The Cahills are considering amend-
ments to the Landlord and Tenant Act
which would free new premises from
rent-control and also give home-owners
greater powers of eviction. The first
amendment would do much to encourage
the building of houses for rent; the
second would get rid of the anomaly
under which many people are unable to
regain possession of their own homes
even though they may be paying for
poorer accommodation higher rent than
they are receiving from their tenants.
However, it will not do for interested
persons to rejoice too soon. Caucus has
set up a sub-committee to consider the
Cabinet proposals.
• e
The Western Europe plan surmounted
another hurdle when French Premier
Mendes-France secured a motion of con-
fidence in the National Assembly—vot-
ing, 352 to 115, with 150 abstentions. The
motion expressed confidence in the Gov-
ernment “for the pursuit of the London
negotiations and for the application of
the policy expounded by it.” Those who
voted against the motion included the 96
Communist deputies.
• •
S’African Prime Minister Daniel Malan
is retiring at the end of November, and
will most likely be succeeded by Nicho-
laas Havenga, deputy-leader of the
National party and former leader of the
Afrikander party, which amalgamated
with the Nats in 1951.
Malan will spend his retirement at
Stellenbosch. In the Boer War to be
“stellenbosched” was only one step less
humiliating than being bowler-hatted, as
that town was the site of a base well be-
hind the lines to which officers who had
proved incompetent in the field were
sent. Malan, of course, is stellenbosching
himself, having decided at 80 that it is
time to hand over the reins. Havenga
is 72.
Mallam, M.L.A., advocate-in-chief of
the Sydney Harbor tunnel, sees a chance
that New South Wales might be able to
push a large portion of the cost on to
Canberra on the score that the tunnel
would make an admirable shelter from
atomic bombs and is therefore a defence
project. Colliery-owners will be await-
ing with interest the Commonwealth
Government’s reply ; some of those coal-
mines might make admirable shelters,
too.
~ • •
Nominations for endorsement as
“Labor” candidates at the New South
Wales general elections closed last Wed-
nesday ; selection ballots will be held on
November 20. Cahill and his Cabineteers
are all unopposed ; so are most of the
rank-and-file. Exceptions are Clive Evatt
(Hurstville), J. S. Freeman (Blacktown)
and T. Armstrong (Kahibah). Two
“Labor” Assemblymen are retiring at the
end of the present Parliament —Dan
Clyne (King) and R. Cameron (Waratah).
Both seats are “Labor” strongholds, yet
there is only one nomination for King—
Albert Sloss, who lost his City Council
seat in the reshuffle last year. There are
six starters for the Waratah pre-selection
and several in Kahibah, including Joe
Arthur’s wife.
• •
Loss of lottery revenue has made Tas-
mania more of a “mendicant” State than
ever. In the allocation of “special grants”
there has been a reduction in the amounts
for South Australia and W.A. as a result
of improvement in the S.A. finances under
PRESSURE-COOKER
good management and the tax-reimburse-
ment increase in W.A. But Tas. this year
is to receive £2.6 million, or £1,100,000
more than last year, as a present from
the Australian taxpayers, largely because
of the transfer of Tatt.’s to Victoria. There
is a strong feeling in Canberra that the
time is now ripe for a complete review of
the Tasmanian set-up, including indus-
tries, population and prospects. Can
Australia afford to let the island carry all
the expensive overhead of a separate
State, or should some move be made to
attach it, politically and economically,
to prosperous Victoria across Bass Strait?
There would be Constitutional and other
difficulties about a change, but at least
the possibilities could be looked into.
• •
Supply is calling its guided-weapons
analogue-computer, the ingenious three-
dimensional electronic calculating-
machine, the AGWAC. It occupies 1000
sq. ft. of floor and uses 1750 valves.
It is expected to solve a lot of guided-
missile and gunnery problems, bringing
the day nearer when aerial war will be
like that described by a short-story in
The Bulletin recently—all controlled
from a desk-console. It will be installed
at Salisbury, S.A. * /
• •
Under the liberalised pensions, fully
effective this week, about 71,000 people
previously ineligible can come into the
pension field, mostly through permissible-
income and property changes. Many
have not yet applied.
“Damned if I am going to give up the
place of trust,” says Evatt. Caucus might
remember the shopkeepers’ motto: “If
we trust we bust.”
• •
“Mugga Way”: Many people have
been disturbed by what W. Bourke,
“Labor” member for Fawkner (Vic.) in
the Reps, called the “tremendous expan-
sion in the volume of hire-purchase credit
released in the community.” The Prime
Minister, pointing out that hire-purchase
is largely used for machinery and plant
as well as for consumer-goods, said
authorities differed on whether hire-
purchase credit was a good thing. He
thought there would be a Constitutional
bar to control of such credit being
assumed by the Central Bank, and, any-
way, a lot of the funds came from outside
the banking system. He did not think
an independent committee to consider the
question could be justified, but said the
Government would continue to watch the
situation closely.
• •
Victorian Premier Cain suggests that
the proposed Federal Parliamentary com-
mittee discussion of amendments to the
Constitution should be enlarged by the
admission of State Parliamentarians. It
was originally expected that the com-
mittee would concentrate on the immedi-
ate but temporary problem of the
differing election-dates of the Senate and
Reps, perhaps with the objective of
putting up an all-party referendum for
an amendment on that subject. “Labor”
has been hopeful of getting enough
Senate seats at the 1956 vote to command
a majority, and this appeared likely until
the Evatt balloon went up. Tipsters now
say Menzies may seek a dissolution of
the Reps early in 1956, so that Senate
and Reps may be elected together in
April or May of that year.
This would get over the difficulty with-
out need of a referendum ; it would un-
doubtedly result in an increased Govern-
ment majority in the Reps, and it could
also possibly keep “Labor” in a minority
in the Senate. Even if it failed to achieve
this, the mandate given to the Reps would
be sufficient to keep even a “Labor”-
controlled Senate within bounds. There
seems to be little object at the moment
in discussion of the great Constitutional
amendments which demand calm and im-
partial consideration. The “Labor” boys
are too worried over their own skins to
concern themselves with such matters.
• •
Askin, M.L.A., wants to know why
season tickets can’t be issued on Sydney
trams.- The stock reply to this suggestion
is that it isn’t practicable, but that’s non-
sense ; Adelaide introduced them 30
years ago.
• •
Reported in the daily press that “Aus-
tralia is wary of the United Nations move
on disarmament,” and that Sir Percy
Spender “appealed to the great Powers
not to be at all hasty in taking disarma-
ment discussions out of the hands of the
U.N. General Assembly.” A disarma-
ment plan in which Percy has had no
hand would scarcely be a plan at all.
Germany has decided to call its new
Army Die Streitkrdfte —“The Combat
Forces” instead of Reichswehr,
favored by the Weimar Republic, mean-
ing “Reich Defence,” or Wehrmacht.
favored by Hitler, meaning Defence
Forces. The difference is in the tail of
the title. Both Kraft and Macht mean
force —but one is the force of engine-
power, the other carries the hint of
aggression.
• •
Apparently it is impossible to repair
the portrait of the Prime Minister,
damaged in King’s Hall, Parliament
House, last March by an undiscovered
vandal. Ivor Hele, now engaged on the
large painting of the opening of Parlia-
ment by the Queen, has therefore been
commissioned to do a portrait of Menzies
to replace the damaged one. W. A. Dargie
is to paint the G.-G., Sir William Slim,
and A. D. Colquhoun is to make a
portrait of Sir Owen Dixon, CJ. of the
High Court.
• •
If Omar had been a smoker instead of
a toper he might have been interested in
the fact that in 1952-53 employees in
tobacqo-, cigar- and cigarette-factories in
Australia earned an average of £683, and
each produced smokes valued at £1505.
Total consumption of these products for
the year was 42,842,0001 b., an average of
4.91 b. per head of population. This was
a little less than the 43,170,0001 b. that
went up in smoke the preceding year to
give an average of 5.061 b. for every man,
woman and child in the country, but far
above the 23,113,0001 b. (an average of
3.341 b.) used in 1938-39. There was
another record in 1952-53 —smokers paid
more than £53 million in Customs- and
excise-duty.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
SYDNEY’S “Daily Telegraph” obvi-
ously believes in printing news with a
good moral for kids in its newly con-
ceived newspaper for children. A par.
in the first issue read: “Six-year-old Rolf
Karlsson, of Eskilstuna, Sweden, bor-
rowed 2s. 6d. from his uncle to buy a
lottery-ticket. With it he has now won
a saloon car.” Personally, I hope every
cleric in the Commonwealth roasts ’em
for printing such an item in a children’s
paper. Wowser? Not at all. I’m an
uncle. —“Sebak.”
"I never tip —I just give them a big smile and they're satisfied.”
“J.E.L.”: One of our foremen has
earned the title “Moses.” They reckon
that every time he opens his mouth “the
bull rushes.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Macnell”; That feast for kids —and
dads —is on again Saturday, October
23 ; the Navy’s Trafalgar Day shivoo at
Garden Island, Sydney, Each year some-
thing different is added; this time it will
be the televising of a man rendering a
mine safe. There is a serious backing to
this entertainment. The Navy considers
that the underwater television-camera (as
in the locating of the sunken submarine
Affray) could be applied to detecting and
plotting enemy minefields. In War II the
gutsy mine-delouser called back to his
party (in equally dangerous proximity)
something like “Unscrewing bolt ‘A’
now.” With television the boffins can
watch quite safely. There will be all the
old favorites on Garden Island —crane-
rides, divers going down, crossing-the-
Line ceremony, fire-fighting a petrol-
soaked aircraft and a full-scale
ceremonial parade with rifle-volleys,
drums, bands and all the trimmings.
Destroyer Warramunga will fire her
Squid anti-submarine weapon, as well as
torpedoes; frigate Murchison will shoot-
off depth-charges. All for nix.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Viper”: Industrial unrest among
ballet-dancers is reaching global propor-
tions, First Mr. Borovansky’s crowd, in
Sydney, and now London’s Sadler’s
Wells, have threatened to down tu-tus
(so to speak) and embark on a full-scale
strike. Ballet is certainly the most sweat-
encrusted of the arts: dancers perform
manual labors that might daunt an ele-
phant. Nonetheless, the more strike-
happy sectors of our community may
well feel uneasy over this aesthetic
infiltration of their traditional sport.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Harbel”: The alarum had gone off,
and sleepily, very reluctantly, I crawled
out of bed. Suddenly my yawn stopped
in mid-gape. “Good Lord!” I gasped at
my owlish-eyed spouse. “You’ve got
scarlet-fever or something—it’s all down
the side of your face!” Her hand flew
up to the spot. I was still keeping a
respectful distance away lest I contract
this fearsome malady when the little
woman looked up from examining some-
thing stuck to her fingers. “All right,
hero,” she announced. “You can
approach in safety. I shouldn’t have let
young Lynne try to thread her beads on
the bed.”
h£+
“Ceg”: Leadswinging was not confined
to troops (B. 29/9/’54) ; one of the tribe
worked in a bank. His apparatus con-
sisted of the heavy lead base of a voucher-
file, with length of string attached, and
he swung it to some effect. The ledger-
desk was alongside the teller’s counter,
and when the teller left his box for a
minute or two the angler would throw
his line over. The lead base was smeared
with office-gum; the catch was never
less than one note. The teller—very
accurate—was mystified by the periodic
shortages in his cash. When the embryo
Izaak Walton was moved to another .
branch the shortages stopped, but
promptly commenced at the other branch
Till he was ranaht with th*> “hch” i„ hi.
hands 6
,*
“Mike”: Tell “Muskeen” that neither
were there any leadswingers in our
“Who's your insurance company?”
hospital—in Stalag 383, Bavaria. One
bloke spent years completely encased,
except for his head, arms and lower legs,
in plaster. Another, spine injury also,
was almost as much plaster-enveloped,
and equally immobile. For these. Major
Brooke-Moore, now practising at
Bathurst (N.S.W.), devised a Stalag-
contrived system of weights on a cord.
The patients’ duty was to work these,
first so that he could do “Heil Stalin,” an
arm-movement, shoulder-high, then “Heil
fiitler,” which salute brings one arm
above the head, and, lastly, “Beware of
trains,” both arms raised above the
head. In addition “Brookie” had an
elaborate “Bull” niedal, made from a
Klim-tin. This was awarded on his daily
rounds to the bloke who told the funniest
story. Shrewd psychologist, Brookie.
“Neo Fite”: Long before ace-reporters
were ever born to cover the General
Assembly of the United Nations, the oft-
quoted W.S. had a word for it —in “Love’s
Labor’s Lost”:
We four, indeed, confronted were with
four
In Russian habit: here they stay’d an
hour.
And talk’d apace; and in that hour, my
lord,
They did not bless us with one happy
word.
♦♦♦ ❖ *>
“Pawang”: An American psychologist,
no doubt by laboratory observation, has
discovered that human beings reach their
maturity at 25, and thereafter gradually
decline. Rubbish! Some people grow
quickly, like poplars, and some grow
slowly, like oaks. Mozart was at the
height of his powers at 15, some say at
10; Gauguin didn’t get ago on until he
was 50; and Titian painted his greatest
masterpiece after he was 90. To take a
less exalted example—l stepped off a
tram this morning at a Swanston-street
intersection when the wind blew off a
very elderly lady’s hat. Brought up to
be polite, I immediately made to dart
after the flying object, when I felt an
iron grasp on my arm. It was the old
lady. “Don’t bother about the hat, dear,”
she said. “Bother about the traffic.” Just
as well, too —there were a dozen cars
tearing down on me.
“Pharisee”: Southern courtesy. Keith
Butler, in Adelaide “Advertiser,”
describes a few incidents during the half-
time break in the grand-final of the Aus-
tralian Rules season:
One man threw a punch at Faehse and
immediately turned and ran. But unfor-
tunately he collided with an onlooker who
said, “I’m strictly neutral but that was a
low trick.” With that he struck Faehse’s
assailant and knocked him to the ground.
This outburst of impartiality aside,
partisan feeling ran high, apparently, with
blows falling like rain. Even a room-
steward, walking with one hand on a
player’s shoulder, “was struck a terrific
blow on the mouth which broke off three
front teeth and badly bruised his cheek.”
Butler reports that “tempers were still
frayed when the game resumed.”
. . . . ,
a 0 „„ u ~ • „„„
f ' f As ° ne , "*° se “°” )°* jrne^
~ ar ° ut T 0t earslo . t ,° , a *Augby League
arena > 1 am Puzzled by the curious re-
ports that filter into Sydney from time to
time from the southern provinces (Mel-
bourne football crowd goes mad, riot at
Adelaide Oval—that sort of thing). What
is the explanation of such barbarous be-
havior? Is it the penalty Melbourne and
Adelaide pay for their respectability—
pent-up emotions let rip on Saturdays?
Consideration of the paradox of Mel-
bourne conservatism and a flourishing
Melbourne underworld inclines one to
this theory. Or is there something about
Australian Rules football that arouses the
worst instincts in its beholders? Another
paradox, since the code is not a very virile
game, although a pretty one to watch.
But, whatever the reasons, I am sorry
the Prime Minister patronises these
raucous affairs. Had he had the good
fortune to have been bom north of the
Murray he could seek relief from the
cares of office watching an occasional
game of Rugby Union at which crowds
commonly behave as decorously as pall-
bearers. Or, perhaps, he could have gone
to see Miss Gipsy Rose Lee —by all
accounts an eminently respectable per-
formance —where, at least, he would have
been in good company. My newspaper
tells me the first night was crowded with
policemen and “religious leaders.”
Wilfully attending Australian Rules games
seems to be asking for trouble.
❖ *> ❖
“Metralia”: Literary costiveness
plagues that erudite author Cyril
Connolly. His masterpiece. The Unquiet
Grave, is, consequently, an extremely
skinny book. Nonetheless, the book is
very much abreast the times. Take this
remark: “Old friends are practically
indistinguishable from enemies.” A
Papuan paradise, now suffering press-
disenchantment, contains some peculiar
residents; anthropologists, who love
drawing parallels between savage and
civilised quirks, are twittering over one
batch in particular. Mere cannibalism is,
of course, stale stuff; but these are
cannibals with a difference. They eat
only their dearest friends and relatives.
❖ ❖ ❖
“H.C.8.”: Those experts at larceny—
the wharfies —quote this as a textbook
example of the art: A member of their
fraternity “whizzed-off” a small electric-
motor, but was faced with the problem
of getting it past the gate. At knock-off
time, however, he brazenly marched up
to the gate, a cornbag in his hand. “What’s
in the bag?” asked the guard. The answer
came pat: “A stray cat —been hanging
about the wharf for days. My kids’ll like
it.” Obviously sceptical, the officer
demanded to see the cat. The wharfie
protested. The officer insisted. Finally
the wharfie capitulated and opened the
bag. Out jumped a cat and streaked
back to the wharf. Swearing bitterly the
wharfie set off in pursuit. A considerable
time later he returned, the bag laden
again. “Been all this time catchin’ him
again,” he snapped savagely as he strode
through the gate. O. Henry would
probably have had the guard arrest him
on a charge of cruelly confining a cat m
a bag; with a subsequent denouement.
But truth is less righteous than fiction;
the thief got away with his bluff and the
motor.
SHOSHIAL SHTUDIES DAY
“The N. S. Wales Premier and the Leader of
the Opposition agreed that the Australian
public needs proper education to drink safely
and graciously.”
“Why, son, you’ve come home very
gay I”
“Today wash Shoshial Shtudies Day.
You’re right, there. Mum; I’m feeling
fine;
We had to shtudy drinking wine —
You change the wine wif every dish,
Sherry before, chablis wif fish.
Hock wif chook for well-bred hosts,
Claret or burgundy wif roasts;
Wif shweetsh, a fine champagne ish
handy ;
Then port, liqueur, perhapsh . me!
. . . brandy.’’
“My darling child, you didn’t drink
Those wines yourself!’’
“Thash what you fink :
Wif school - shupplies there wash
conshigned
A barrel each of every kind.
But Shir shays ‘Why, the shilly asshes
Haven’t shent the proper glasshes!
I tell you what I’ll do, however,
I’ll put the bonds all togevver.’
Shir emptied them in one big jug
And then he filled us each a mug.
Mish Shmiff came in, the teacher Shir
Ish shweet on —he filled one for her,
And gave himself another tashte
And put hish arm around her waisht:
‘Well, kids,’ he saysh, ‘now; home you
go;
You never musht get drunk, you know!
Your homework for tonight will be
Holding four liquor gracioushly . . ”
“My child, I feel I’ve heard enough—-
But tell me: did you like the stuff?”
“Ish orright, Mum, but non ash beaut
Ash shoda, coke or jumble-frute . . .
Shay, did you get my shet-shquares yet ?
Now I’ll need glasshes, don’t forget!”
“Yes, yes, my son. Go off to bed;
You have not yet the drinker’s head:
Next lesson I’ll attend instead.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


YX/AS early-morning first customer
at the barber-shop. The young
male Delilah slipped a white coat over
an army uniform. “Must keep you
pretty busy,” I said, “running the Army
and the shop.” “Aw, I’m a Nasho,” he
said. “Got a bivouac this weekend.”
“How do you find the national training?”
I asked. “Lotta bull. We’ve gotta spend
all this Saturday-arvo making a camp to
sleep in so we can fire a few imaginary
rounds from the guns, at targets that
aren’t there, in the morning. Short back
and sides? Coupla weeks ago up near
the cross-roads in French’s Forest we
were sucked into a mock battle. Com-
bined operation, ‘Camouflage the guns!
“Driving you to it? Fiddlesticks! That's what my OTHER
husbands said.”
Recco planes coming over!’ We felled
an acre of timber and laid the trees over
the guns.” “Planes would see that,” I
said. No planes. Imaginary! ”he said,
sweated our guts out all the morning
packing down these trees and humping
em onto the guns. Battle was over about
uncn-time and we’re all as dry as chips,
1 nere s a shop sells cold drinks at the
cross-roads. We said .to the captain
‘Can we whip into the shop for a Cola?’
Mind you, the battle was over. ‘Certainly
not!’ he said. ‘That shop was bombed-
out at eleven-hundred hours! ’ Something
on the hair?” —“Ybsul.”
❖ ❖
“Macro”; After the spate of jokes
against New Australiahs and their efforts
to master English, I really enjoyed this
little exchange at a cricket-match
in a district which still remem-
bered the impact of the first D.P.s of
1948, and where the local ideas about
immigrants had cemented. Bole and his
friends had become a bit too vocal for
the muttering matrons seated in front,
one of whom turned and delivered a loud
snort of disgust to her neighbor: “Balts! ”
The fact that Bole is a Yugoslav gave
added point to his crushing reply:
“Nuts!”
❖ ❖ ♦
“Findy”: Modem service - stations
place much emphasis on service. In one
Sydney suburb an up-to-date petrol-
emporium proclaims; “Our toilets are for
your use.”
♦j*
“Mugga Way”: South Africa may soon
have some good news for cigarette-addicts
who have been alarmed by lung-cancer
talk. A group of doctors is working on a
theory that the tmdoubted incidence of
cancer is not due to tobacco, but to the
use of petrol-lighters. They say that no
chemical substance found in tobacco has
ever been connected with any form of
cancer, whereas the “benzine ring” has.
This carbon-hydrogen ring is present in
coal tar, which is known to be a cause of
skin-cancer. The doctors point out that
many cigarette-smokers use petrol-
lighters, but most pipe- and cigar-
smokers use matches. Boom in the
match trade?
“Muskeen”; If that device for
dimming drawing-room lights (B.
29/9/’54) will.convert a battle-axe into
something like Marilyn Monroe, I’m all
for it. Which only goes to show that in
the gloaming all cats are grey.
* ❖ *>
“Sister Ellell”: A complete metamor-
phosis has come over the Australian
Army Nursing Service as we knew it in
the late stoush. Gone are the days of
getting on with its own job of nursing and
leaving all other service worries to male
higher-uppers. Instead has arisen the
Royal Australian Army Nursing Corps,
entirely responsible for its own being.
Now composed of officers (trained nurses)
and o.r.s (untrained), with the officers
training to make their rank substantive by
the same standard of lectures and exam ina-
tions as the male counterpart; embrac-
ing the professional part of the service—
rules and regs., mil. laws, courts-martial
and what-all. Not the least of the tribu-
lations of the new era is the parade-
ground technique and company-drill,
hitherto non-existent for nursing-sisters,
One lass examinee in this art reported
that when she had marched the squad
over a drain and turned them just short
of a brick wall she thought she’d had it;
and was not greatly uplifted when the
adjutant sister remarked “What the hell
were you at with the squad—sheep-dog
trials?”
*** ❖
“Balwyn”: The real fascination of
collecting is its infinity. Having been
bitten by the bug in various forms since
childhood, my vote for a hobby of end-
less scope goes to coin-collecting. Ac-
quisition of one piece usually inspires a
mad craving to possess the rest of its
series. To buy a complete set like the
recent British Coronation issue (from
“This must be yours.”
farthing to crown) can cost up to a tenner
—and there have been many such special
issues. Coins are graded into all condi-
tions from “badly rubbed” to “mint,”
and valued accordingly. Scarcity also
greatly influences prices. But the most
unique collection I’ve seen of anything
is the vast, colorful array of beer-bottle
labels from all over the world which
has for years adorned the walls of the
Melbourne Bread and Cheese Club.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stromlo”: The war-time story of the
joker who dressed in a German uniform
and spent some unchallenged days roam-
ing round public places has had an echo
in Denmark, A Danish journalist at the
port of Gedser, testing out the reaction
to various uniforms, found police. Cus-
toms and rail-officials falling over each
other to help the military stranger who
could speak only German. In another
town he asked questions and got answers
about a strategic bridge connecting south
Denmark with the island of Zeeland, and
in Copenhagen the sentry at defence head-
quarters saluted him, and admitted him
without pass or question. Inside, military
officers treated him as a colleague.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“A.F.”: Conrad’s Otago (B. 6/10/’54)
seems to have joined the ranks of the
sea’s legendaries. When the barque’s
hull has finished rotting in the Derwent,
all we’ll have of her will be the helm-
wheel in the Company of Master
Mariners’ Museum on the Thames, saved
by one-time Tasmanian writer and book-
seller William Hall. Otago, in which
Conrad left Sydney Harbor in a storm —
against the advice of the pilot—and
successfully navigated Torres Strait
nine days later on the voyage to
Mauritius, was the background for The
Shadow Line and A Smile of Fortune.
Her active seafaring ended in 1912, when
she was sold to Huddart, Parker, Ltd.,
and used as a coal-lighter in Hobart.
Nineteen years later she was bought
by a dealer for breaking-up. She lay
rusting in Risdon Cove until 1935, when
the Japanese Government bought her for
scrap; War II broke .out before shifting
operations could begin. It should gladden
all lovers of sailing-ships that artist
Norma Bull has pictured the remains of
the gallant old barque for posterity.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: The sandstone walls of a pedes-
trian subway just outside Sydney’s Central
railway-station simply invite the scrawling
of slogans and messages; the silent invi-
tation is accepted with alacrity by a legion
of mural-publicists. The bulk of the
space is hogged by the religionists and the
Communists —though, strangely, they
never attack each other. The scrawler
who solemnly warns me that Eternity
looms in my path, or that the regions
I shall inhabit will have a fantastically
high temperature seems content to con-
fine his efforts to soul-saving. Likewise
the Commo still implores the West (on
orders from Moscow) to Ban the H-
Bomb, which to me argues that Malenkov
is either still short of ’em or hasn’t yet
got one. Yet other propagandists, small
yet determined, get their messages across,
sandwiched. I have been informed that
Beer Is Death, a statement that seems
to get its refutation from the hustle going
on in the brewery near by; that cats are
anathema to some gent.; that one Bob
(surname suppressed) is a mangy cow;
and that that dual comestible tripe-and-
onions is to be roundly condemned. But
the strangest message of all was there the
other day, in fresh chalk —a voice from
the past. It simply read: Good old Sir
George Dibbs 1 !
❖ * ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: “Slinger’s” hilarious
description of the quickening effect of his
explosive shanghai-pellets on the neigh-
boring cats (B. 6 /10/ ’54) has set me
cogitating. As “Slinger” conveniently
lives at Randwick, I wonder would he, by
arrangement with me, assume a strategic
possie adjacent the “three” and take pot-
shots at the southerly aspects of the nags
I back as they turn tardily for home.
Remuneration would be on a 50-50 basis
after I’ve collected from the bookmakers.
<s*
“Jez”: Between advertising rackets and
persuasive wives, a man can’t win. Wife
I know won a radio-quiz similar to that
of B. 29/10/’54. When told she’d have
to use the tenner prize as a deposit on a
highly priced radiogram, she got hold of
a solicitor, who retrieved tenner. Wife
promptly used it as part-deposit on a
cheaper radiogram bought locally—the
Old Man stumps up the rest and wishes
all radio-quizzes to perdition.
*** ♦♦♦ *
“Finn-Egan”: Took a cobber from
Sydney to a recent art-show in Mel-
bourne. “That’s a great piece of work,”
I said, admiring one of Lister’s water-
colors. “What’s great about it?” he said.
“Nothing but a copy of an old calendar
that’s been hanging in our kitchen for
the last two years.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Simon”: So Newcastle (N.S.W.) sports
in a 30yd. street three pubs and two wine-
saloons (B. 6/10/’54). Marvellous! And
on an off-night recently I landed in the
Smoky City at seven o’clock and three of
the best residential hotels were booked
out. Tried to rouse half a dozen others
but none would answer my knocking. Just
as I was about to go to the police-station,
accidentally met a commercial-traveller
friend who let me in to his diggings with
the key he carried. Newcastle may be
strong at the booze end, but if you are
after accommodation better take a cara-
van in tow.'
BELIEVE IT OR NOT!
“President Tito appeared before the Yugoslav
Federal Executive Council with a black eye,
over which he wore a black patch. His aides
said he had been hit by a bunch of flowers
thrown by an enthusiastic young girl. ’
The life of a dictator’s one
That many would account quite rosy;
Though some may have him in the gun,
Others at him will throw a posy.
Some posy, that, you’d say, which could
On casting up against his blinker,
As potent as a piece of wood.
Cause Tito to acquire a “stinker.’’
He could have claimed (oh, just as you
Have done on more than one occasion)
The door-edge he had walked into
Had caused the multi-hued abrasion.
But no. A few frail flowers were tossed,
And, lo! Poor Tito sports a winker
Beneath which is one eye, embossed —•
A really decorative “stinker.”
He also could have trotted out
The one I do —without conviction:
The piece of chopped wood flew, and
clout-
Ed him; and thus his eye-affliction.
He even might have been believed
If he'd have said a whirling sinker
He’d stopped while fishing. He achieved
Through some projected flowers his
“stinker.”
It’s plain the flappers Yugoslav
Must be quite rich in red corpuscles
And also obviously have
Some iron-hard sets of forearm muscles
To make of pansies or of stock
A missile that was quite a clinker.
Which, landing on old Tito’s clock.
Bestowed on him a bonny “stinker.”
Isn’t it likely, though, he tried
To exercise a husband’s veto.
And copped some solid object, shied
By the indignant Mrs. Tito ?
Such an admission must have made
Tito, already Red, go pinker.
And so in Belgrade there’s displayed
A sort of optic accolade,
Something embracing many a shade —
The world’s first horticultural “stinker”!
N.S.W,
S. W. K.
GILBERTIAN
I’m much amused; my sides are shaking;
My eyes are moist, my ribs are aching.
In short. I’m doubled-up with mirth —
Len Hutton, interviewed at Perth,
Became somewhat confessional;
Expressed a haunting funk or fear
That cricket-lovers over here
Would let their famed bonhomie freeze
Because (forgive my chirrups!) he’s
Both captain and PROFESSIONAL!
P. O. M. C.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Late this month Montgomery of
Alamein will unveil the Alamein
Memorial; the ceremony attended by
four Australian next-of-kin, representing
the country’s war dead of those savage
12 days in 1942 before Rommel broke
and the Eighth Army poured westward.
A cloister opening on to a series of ter-
races leading down to the white-crossed
cemetery in the sands, the memorial was
designed by Sir Hubert Worthington,
principal architect for North Africa and
Egypt for the Imperial War Graves Com-
mission, and one of England’s most noted
in the architectural field. One-time
assistant of Sir Edwin Lutyens (designer
of the Cenotaph in Whitehall), and lec-
turer in Architecture at Oxford, Worth-
ington has left his mark in many archi-
tectural gems in England, including Man-
chester Cathedral and the refectory at
Eton ; he also remodelled the old Bod-
leian Library at Oxford.
• •
Public Protector No. 1, James Brophy
(caught in Canberra) took over the
nation’s accounts from A. C. Joyce in
1951. His rise to Auditor-General was
the peak of 43 years in the public ser-
vice, mainly concerned then, as now,
with £ s. d. In his latest report Brophy
had some forthright words to say on the
three Services’ storekeeping procedures —
he had been chairman of the Common-
wealth Stores Supply and Tenders Board.
In earlier days Treasury accountant in
Brisbane, Melbourne and Canberra, more
AUDITOR-GENERAL
recently member of the Overseas Tele-
communications Commission, he was
first assistant-secretary to the Treasury
when he stepped-up to A.-G. When not
probing accounts and expenditures, he
takes a very live interest in the encour-
agement of sport amongst the youth of
Canberra. Father of 10 children himself,
he has furthered his recreational interest
with presidency of Canberra’s Combined
Sports Organisations, its Swimming Club
and its Hockey Association. He hails
from Melbourne ; just turned 65.
• •
The Penguin people are considering
a Malayan edition of Mervyn Skipper’s
The Meeting Pool, which they have just
brought out in their Puffin series. As the
book has already been printed in Finnish,
Czech and German, this will be the
fourth language; and, curiously enough,
the one in which the author first heard the
folk-tales he narrated.
• •
Novelist Tom Hungerford wouldn’t
know what a reference-book looks like.
Professionally on the staff of the Bureau
of Information, Canberra, his job
is to publicise Australia overseas;
wherefore he sees Australia. One
month he’ll be up in Thursday
Island (article on pearling); or Bathurst
Island out of Darwin (native-missions);
or in Westralia (Queen’s tour); or —just
back from —Rum Jungle (uranium-extrac-
tion). The same geographical intimacy
is applied to his novels. For The Ridge
and the River Hungerford travelled
Bougainville jungle-trails as a com-
mando ; for Riverslake, worked as a
kitchenman in a Canberra migrant-hostel;
and for Sowers of the Wind, his fine novel
just published, served in the occupation
forces in Japan, One of the most suc-
cessful authors in Australia, Hungerford
has just had his Ridge and the River
(which won him the 1952 Crouch Gold
Medal) go into a Norwegian edition, and
received what appeared to be the princely
sum of 700 crowns as advance royalties ;
whittled-down somewhat when the cur-
rency people told him a Norwegian
crown rates a bit less than an Australian
bob. Hungerford wrote the original draft
for the commentary of the official film
“The Queen in Australia.” His next
address could be New Guinea, or the
Antarctic; in between he’s working on a
fourth novel.
• •
“F.”: Two old-timers and War I veterans,
guests at a Rose Bay (Sydney) private hotel,
got to talking about The Bulletin. One, a
South African retired civil servant, confessed
that he had been reading the paper for more
than 50 years; the other, an N.S.W. country
pressman, said that he had written many a
paragraph and story for it. That was how
Alf Yarra, a sub-editor on the “Northern Daily
Leader,” Tamworth (N.S.W.), author of The
Vanishing Horseman and other books, came to
escort Frank Middleditch, from Cape Town,
to The Bulletin office.
Mr. Middleditch, it transpired, is as Aus-
tralian as Alf Yarra; born at Benalla (Vic.),
where his father, a police constable who was
present at the capture of Ned Kelly, was
stationed, and he lived for many years at
Beechworth. Middleditch crossed to South
Africa in 1902 and became an engineer witn
the then Cape Colony postal department. When
he retired five years ago he was a chief clerk
in the South African postal service. In War I
he served with the South African Signal Corps
in France and Belgium.
Alf Yarra was with the First A.I.F. and
travelled in the same troopship from Egypt
to Gallipoli with Cecil Mann, of The Bulletin.
Both were responsible for “The Nizam Gazette,
the troopship paper. Before making off,
Middleditch remarked: “All the time I’ve been
away from Australia I’ve been a keen Bully
reader. And my brother George is just as
keen.” “Where is brother George?” he was
asked. “In Buenos Aires. Been there for
donkey’s years.”
9 9
John Hughes leaves the Sydney news-
paper business for the comparative calm
of the abattoirs. He was business-manager
of the “Herald” ; he becomes managing-
director of F. J. Walker, Ltd., the meat
people. A golfer of some tonnage, his
drive has lately developed a butcher’s-
hook.
• •
Touched-down in Sydney from
Toronto, Canada, James Duncan,
vigorous-looking chairman and president
of Massey Harris Ferguson, Ltd. Forty-
four years with the firm (joining it in
Berlin), Duncan has been manager in
France, in Argentina and g.-m. for
Europe ; in France also with the Royal
Field Artillery, War I. He shifted to
Canada in 1935, and in five years was at
the top. A bit busy elsewhere, too—
chairman of the Dollar-Sterling Board,
board-member of the Canadian Bank of
Commerce, governor of Toronto Uni-
versity ; councillor of the Art Gallery,
vice-chairman of the Royal Conserva-
tory of Music. And, though R.A.A..F.
embryo pilots may not have met him,
he was very much with them —Minister-
in-charge of administering the Empire
Air Training Scheme in War 11. An
authority on agricultural problems, he
speaks fluently in German, French and
Spanish—born in Paris, and with a
Spanish wife.
• •
Aboard destroyer Arunta on his way
home from Japan to Hawthorn (Mel-
bourne), Warrant - Officer Ronald
Kerrison has got round somewhat since
soldiering with the 2nd A.I.F. Demobbed,
he took out a civil-airline pilot’s ticket,
and flew with Qantas, 8.0.A.C. and
Guinea Air Traders, ferrying, among
other passengers, pilgrims from the Middle
East to Mecca. Back to khaki in 1950,
this time with the British Territorials,
paratrooper. Two years ago he shifted to
the Durham Light Infantry, and fought
with them in Korea. Lately R.S.M. at
8.C.0.F. headquarters in Japan, he’s
heading for Civvy-street, and, he hopes,
managing a pub.
• •
Carrying the business-wise tag of
deputy-chairman of the board and chair-
man of the standing committee of the
A.N.Z. Bank, Colonel Arthur Terence
Maxwell is due to set down in Sydney
from London towards the end of this
month. Barrister by training, colonelcy
from the King’s Rifle Corps, much
planning experience as colonel of General
Staff, Allied Forces h.-q,, and later as
deputy-chief of the military-government
section of Eisenhower’s S.H.A.E.F., Max-
well is also directorially connected with
Vickers and the Steel Company of Wales.
Son of a brigadier-general, married to a
daughter of Sir Austen Chamberlain, the
visitor is headed for five weeks of much
ado about money with his bank’s senior
men.
“M.”: Way back, suburbanites of
Payneham in Adelaide became
accustomed to seeing a youth driving
round the garden in an aircraft he was
building, complete but for the wings and
motivated by a propeller driven by a
motorbike engine. Young Howard Hobbs
also became accustomed—to the smiles.
He pressed on with the invention bug,
studied mechanics by reading about them,
and finally invented a marketable machine
for grading apples. But his dream was a
device that would obviate gear-changing
in motorcars. So he invented a fully
automatic gear-box; took it to England
in 1931, to find no one was interested in
the revolutionary idea. Hobbs persisted
and perfected, and in 1946 established his
own transmission-firm at Leamington Spa.
Today, October 20, there is due to be
shown at the Earl’s Court motor-show in
London Daimler’s new Lanchester
Sprite—with, as the event of the motoring
year, Hobbs’s automatic gear-box fitted.
• •
Forty-four years is enough, reckons
H. C. Thomas, retiring chief-inspector
for the A.N.Z. Bank in New Zealand.
Manager in Melbourne of the Bank of
Australasia (before the merger), he was
in Auckland at the amalgamation in 1951,
and became chief-inspector shortly after-
wards. Born at Warragul (Vic.), he’s an
Old Digger, machine-gun, battalion, M.M.
and Bar.
• •
Gunner-officer Major-General L. G. H.
Dyke takes over G.0.C., Western Com-
mand. A Duntrooner, he went to India
for further training in 1926 and in the
following year shipped up to Shanghai
with the force sent to protect British
lives and interests there. War II found
him battery-commander, later C. 0., of the
2/2nd Field Regiment, in the Western
Desert, Greece and Crete ; D.S.O. Solid
staff-work in senior appointments on Ist
and 2nd Corps Headquarters, in New
Guinea and the islands, brought him
C.B.E. At the end of the war, commander
of a force on Timor, he received the
Jap surrender on Koepang.
• •
Here presented, upper-deck of the
fathom or so of Kenneth McKenzie
Urquhart—with that name, naturally an
engineer. Though a serving captain in
H.M.A. Navy, Urquhart steams under the
title of general-manager, his province
Garden Island ; his particular interest at
this time, Saturday’s Trafalgar Day jun-
ketings on that largest of Southern
Hemisphere dockyards. Probably the
only engineer-officer to do the staff course
at Greenwich Naval College (reserved
usually for upper-deck johnnies),
Urquhart has been in since 1919. While in
England he represented the Mother Navy
at swimming for four years, and for
another four years (1939-43) was in
charge of the gun-mounting and torpedo
depot in Sydney. Here he refitted gun-
barrels, serviced torpedoes, and in
general sharpened battle-worn teeth. Also
sited sets of fixed torpedo-tubes at the
entrances to strategic harbors on the
east coast —a little-known activity. To
sea, he joined cruiser Hobart a few days
after she’d collected a Jap torpedo aft
in the Solomons. Nice job for the newly
joined /engineer—nursing Hobart back to
GENERAL-MANAGER
Sydney from Espiritu Santo, jury-steer-
ing rigged, wheel on the quarter-fleck a
la Nelson, deck-plates savaged, bulk-
heads shored-up, two screws only, with
apprehensive glances aft every time a
wave hit to see if he still had a stern.
Hobart safe, he engineered three
destroyers, steaming in them from
Arawa up through the Admiralties to
the final strikes against Japan, Quietly
spoken, a lean engine-room look sweated
into him, Urquhart seeks solace in sails
and skis.
Having figured enough over 40-odd
years with the Sydney auditing firm of
Cooper Brothers, Way and Hardie,
Francis Harmsworth Way is calling it a
day. His account takes in 20 years as
senior-partner in the firm, much good
work for Rotary and the Royal Prince
Alfred hospital, and presidency of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants. He
retired just as he was marking the 75th
folio of his birthday-ledger.
WILLIAM GEORGE MACK, cattle-
owner of the Bundaberg (Q.) district,
A.I.F. major of New Guinea and islands
adjacent, now judge of the Queensland
Supreme Court.
Herbert Holman (London): A delighted
expatriate Australian called the other
evening to tell me his news. John Gunn
(who left Sydney three years ago with
serious ambitions as writer, dramatist and
man of the theatre) is returning home. His
slight figure will soon be seen in all kinds
of places, mostly with a Vickers Viscount
in tow. He will arrive not as a second
Nevil Shute, but as press-officer for the
Vickers group, to publicise the Viscount
on its first appearance in the Southern
Hemisphere, and to promote public-
relations services in the capital cities.
Sometime pilot in the R.A.N. Fleet Air
Arm, Gunn has worked as a journalist,
sold real-estate and pioneered in the
arts —he founded the Shavian theatre in
Sydney, with lan Bevan, the Society of
Australian Writers in London, and in the
last year has published two boys’ books.
One is an adventure-story set in the Great
Barrier Reef. Gunn expects to return to
London early next year in time to attend
rehearsals of his play, “The Wren’s Nest,’
due for production at the Richmond
Theatre. Not quite thirty.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 55, Leslie Stuart Cox, Old Digger
and manager of the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia in Westfalia. He joined the staff of the
Royal Queensland Bank, afterwards absorbed
by the National, in 1914. After the war he
filled various banking jobs in Melbourne and
Brisbane till 1946, when he was appointed
inspector of the metropolitan division in Mel-
bourne. He had held the Westralian appoint-
ment since 1950.
In a street-accident in Naples, Frank Foster,
one of Victoria’s best-known provincial journal-
ists and author of Comrades in Bondage, a
book on his experiences while a prisoner or
the Japanese. Foster hid the material for Ins
book on odd bits of paper in bottles in various
camps. Formerly with “Sunraysia Daily,
Mildura, he later became regional journalist
for the A.B.C. at Horsham. He was collecting
material for a second book at the end.
In Camden (N.S.W.), at 77, Norman Price*
brilliant Auckland-born electrical engineer, lue-
member of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, and a man of international training
and experience. He was well known in Kai-
goodie and Broken Hill, and in the Queensland
sugar-milling areas. First apprenticed to Beiliss
and Morcom, in Birmingham, he became
resident engineer for the firm in Australia, i
his young days he was a friend of Ihe
Bulletin’s J. F. Archibald.
At Kimberley, South Africa, at 65, D. C.
Kidd M.P. for Waitaki in the New Zealana
Parliament. He was returning from Nairobi,
where he led the delegation of five countrymen
to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Confer-
ence. A sheepfarmer, he joined the Soutn
Canterbury Mounted Rifles and was wound*
at Gaza. The Kidd family had a solid war
record. Four of his elder brothers served m
both the Boer War and War I.
In Liverpool (Eng.), Dr. C. Mclntosh
Marshall, New Zealander who made a wo
name for himself as a gynecologist, especially
in Caesarean operations; his textbook on tne
subjs won him considerable attention m
England, Europe and the U.S.A. just before d-
late war. He had been in England since 1926-
At Launceston (Tas.), at 88, L. A. Cud-
elder son of one of New Zealand s pioneeu-
Manager in 1892 of the first N.Z. athletic
team to visit England he was for long captain
of Canterbury and N.Z. cricket teams, j
several times won the North
championship. Active as well m
civic affairs—life member of St. Johns Anm
lance Association, member of the
Brokers’ Association and the Chamber
Commerce.


TERRESTRIAL TRAFFIC-JAM AND CELESTIAL CONGESTION


ABORIGINALITIES
T\URING World War I, when Army
*** horses were broken-in at the
Remount Depot, Liverpool (N.S.W.), one
buckjumper threw the best riders in the
depot. A report on it brought two rough-
riders from Victoria Barracks. They
reined-up just in time to see yet another
rider piled in the dust. “Well,” asked the
sergeant, “do you think you could ride
him?” “Ride him?” scoffed one of the
newcomers as he began to unbuckle his
saddle-girth. “A black-gin could ride
him.” The sergeant’s reply wiped the smug
expression off his face: “Right. Carry
on. But don’t take your saddle off —
you’ll be riding in a military-saddle, the
way my boys had to.” The roughrider
mounted and was thrown within seconds.
His mate tried, with like result, “Right,”
snapped the sarge. “Now you can put
your own saddle on.” With his knee-
padded saddle beneath him the rough-
rider rode the outlaw to a standstill.
“Yair,” commented three-stripes dryly;
“and if my boys had been given saddles
like that any one of ’em could have done
the same.” —“H.C.8.”
» * ♦ ♦
“Tolai” (T.N.G.): One of our boys
had a wife who used to entertain another
native while her husband was at work.
As soon as he became aware that the
cuckold knew what was going on the
philanderer decamped. But for the
husband the delicate question of his honor
had to be settled. His wife had been
receiving payment in the form of shillings
and sticks of tobacco. It was the right of
the husband to receive all payments. He
ordered her to walk behind him when
he went to work, stay within sight of him
and follow him home every day for the
“Through these portals passed some of our greatest medicine-men."
rest of his stay in our locality. Romeo
drifted back, and there were no fights, so
apparently hubby collected enough back-
payments to satisfy his honor.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Native rock - carvings (B.
15/9/ r 54)? I’ve just got back from a
Royal Geographical Society expedition
to the Carnarvon Range (C.Q.), where
there are hundreds of rock-paintings and
-carvings. The most common is the sten-
cilled hand, some so clear that even in-
dividual malformations can be traced.
The paintings are easy enough to follow,
but what has me puzzled are the “weather-
ing” carvings. There are dozens of in-
cised rings, said to represent “dream-
time” waterholes. But they could be the
nuts of the zamia-palm, which abounds in
that region. Quite apart
from the usual emu-
and wallaby-pads, there
is depicted also a
strange marsupial with
five toes which nobody
can identify. Strangest
of ail is a grotesque,
foreshortened human
figure, with no features,
wearing a headdress. It
is carved, not painted.
* *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In
saying that glass-bottles
can cause fires (B.
15/9/’54) “Quo Vadis”
is merely enunciating a
truth well known to
squatters in the early
days of Australian
settlement, and even
within my memory.
There were strange un-
written laws then—
strange, but logical in a
simple way. A man in
need of food in the out-
back could kill a sheep
and eat it, provided he
hung its hide on a fence or something as
convenient and tried to notify the owner.
Similarly a man on the track could
demand a feed if he reached a home-
stead at sundown from which “law”
sprang an army of sundowners who
made a habit of arriving at tucker-
time and eating enough to last all
next day. But some squatters were
hard-up and others were too miser-
able to spare a feed, while some sun-
downers weren’t above setting fire to a
paddock for revenge. But they were
always miles away when the fire started.
A wax match left in dry grass under a
piece of broken bottle would ignite when
the sun’s rays came through at the right
angle—as they were bound to do sooner
or later. The beauty of it, from the fire-
bug’s point of view, was that a match
thus left, even in winter time, could be
relied upon to act in the dry season, when
the culprit could be in another State.
jjs ❖ 4* *
“W.P.T.”: Most successful dingo-
trapper I met used a rough pair of boots
and gloves he’d made out of dingo-hide.
He claimed he was thus able to set baits
and traps without leaving any human
scent.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It’ll take something
pretty good in the way of fences to keep
emus out of the Westralian wheat-
belt. No ordinary vermin-fence can
withstand the impact of a flock of the
big birds, running at some 35 m.p.h. On
the fence which runs north of Border-
town (S.A.) to keep out the northern Vic-
torian dingoes, I’ve seen solid hardwood
posts snapped off at ground-level, and a
chain or more of the high netting-fence
laid flat by a single flock of emus. There
are two possible solutions. One is to use
posts of reinforced concrete, at least 6in.
square, spaced three to the chain, with
the upper part of the barrier of Cyclone
instead of the usual pig-netting. The
other—and it’s the one I would favor—
would be to have an auxiliary fence on
the outside of the real one consisting of
pig-netting with its lower edge 3ft. off
the ground, and posts strutted back to
the main fence. But instead of tying this
“So he should be fast —look at his streamlined body!”
netting firmly to the outside posts, hang
it on spiral springs so it would cushion
an emu charge. It would work on the
old principle of the thickset hedge, which
can fling a mad bull back on his rump,
whereas a solid barrier gets knocked
down.
$
“Narumee”: It might have been pure
coincidence, but the old bloke alongside
me at the Melbourne Show did spit just
as a piebald pony went by. There is an
ancient superstition that it’s lucky to spit
at a piebald—provided you don’t see his
tail first. Piebalds were also supposed to
endow their riders with mysterious know-
ledge, and as recently as the end of the
last century, in Northern England, such
riders were approached for all kinds of
advice —and especially for a cure for
whooping-cough! In Germany in earlier
times grey horses were looked upon
as unlucky, and poor old Dapple was
often summarily dispatched and his
carcass hung upon a tree, presumably
to appease Odin, who invariably rode a
grey; farmers believed that this sacrifice
averted the wrath of the father of the
gods from their other stock. In Corn-
wall draught-horses with four white
socks are still thought unlucky, those
with only one lucky. Even the gleaming
brasses adorning Dobbin’s harness are
survivals of pagan “horse nonsense,”
being sun-symbols intended to avert
the Evil Eye from horse and driver.
Horseshoes, on the other hand, typify the
crescent moon ; they should be nailed to
a door for luck, points upwards, not, as
is popularly said, to prevent the luck
from running out, but because a crescent
moon on its back portends good weather
—it is holding up the rain which would
otherwise fall.
* * * *
“X.S.”: There was enough gelignite
flying about- at Glenroy (Vic.) the other
day to blow up the township. It was in
the hands of children who had found 78
sticks in an explosives-truck and, mistak-
ing the pink stuff for plasticine, had
moulded it into balls which they were
throwing at one another.
* * * *
“Jeff Jay”: That method of leaving
the selection of the best pup in a litter to
the mother (B. 29/9/’54) originated
amongst the old Scottish shepherds.
Another favored way is to select the pup
which has three coarse hairs under the
lower jaw (they all have these longer
and coarser hairs, varying in number);
but number-three is the champ.
♦ * * *
“Dustman”: An American survey-
team thinks it’s found the world’s greatest
ocean-depth, somewhere in the South
Pacific, but some checking will have to be
done before the exact depth will be
known. The previous greatest depth was
discovered in 1951, in the Mariana
Trench south-west of Guam. It was
found by supersonic sounding, a method
in which the only possible error can occur
in the reading of the scale. The checking-
team took 20 fathoms off the original
finding to allow for this error, and were
left with a depth of 5940 fathoms. That’s
10,863 metres, 35,640 ft, or 6| miles,
whichever you like. Put another way,
it’s over 6000 ft. deeper than Everest is
high.
* * * ♦
“Muskeen”: Those Ceylon “magpies”
seen in Perth (B. 6/10/’54) are crows, and
if they run true to form they will take
a bit of hunting. A piece of bread thrown
from a first-floor window of the Galle
Face Hotel will never reach the ground
if Mr. Colombo Kelly is about —and he
always is.
DESERTED
The grass is long and all awry,
Patches of earth stare brown and dry,
Gaunt, hanging limbs droop to the ground
And in the wind scrape restless sound.
By the back-door, fresh from his toil,
A man once washed the lovely soil
From off his hands, dust from his face,
Then combed his hair by way of grace.
A bare dark space like a sad eye
Stares broodily at passers-by:
An eerie window in the night,
Where once a lamp shed its warm light.
Bleached rotting wood and rusted tin,
The dark dim well long fallen in,
And one old fruit-tree, gnarled and grim,
Still bearing fruit as if for him.
victoria.
JAMES HACKSTON.
THE HUSKIES
For me, there is no dog to compare
with the husky. We had 60-odd at Heard
Island, and what a wonderful little com-
munity they were: Butch and Mack,
brothers, with high intelligence and a
store of affection for humans; we used
them as chastising-agents for unruly
team-mates.
They worked almost as one dog. Butch
would move in and grab the offender (or
the challenger, if some dog was foolish
enough to contest their leadership) by
the neck and commence shaking, while
Mack, a creamy-white streak of fury,
flashed in to take hold near the tail and
rip lumps out.
Then there was Sharky—anti-social,
friendless, a notorious thief, who ate
his meat in a corner with crooked eyes
swivelling like naval gunbarrels.
Thurber, one-time lead-dog with massive
strength and thick skull, who, when
deposed by Butch and Mack, retired from
active work in disgust—how sad the big
fellow always looked when the sledge
left without him! Denny, a flighty miss
but a good worker. Lightning, friendly,
willing and strong, but too easily unbal-
anced by the barking of a seal-pup—let
loose, he headed for the beach and
always came back bulging with food and
smothered in blood. But he was always
kind to new dogs coming into the teams,
which was useful.
There was the explorers’ Utter:
Amundsen, Shackleton, Scott, Rymill,
Mawson and Frank Wild. And Har-
bottle, known by us and the females as
“Lover Boy.” The ladies fell for his
rather battered charms (one eye blind,
one ear in tatters and deep scars all oyer
his face ; all battle-honors) with charming
candor, even though Harbottle’s affec-
tions were of a decidedly temporary
nature.
Of course there were dozens more.
Every man in the expedition had his
special pet. Mine was Annette, a young-
ster named after my eldest daughter.
When she was sleeping on my bed during
the day I had to lie down on the floor ■
On the few occasions when I pushed
her off she looked at me so reproachfully
it was weeks before I could do it again.
She was a beautiful dog. I wonder it
she’s been well-treated.
They were all wonderful, especially m
the field. Heads down, tails up, shoulders
straining, they forged ahead no matter
what the weather. A “Mush hi!” and
they were off, bowling along like Cobb
and Co. bringing the mail.
In a year tight-packed with new ana
wonderful experiences, the sledging days
were the best, the dogs better companions
than most human beings. I wonder how
they’re going at Macßobertson Land.
V. J. H.


Tou asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes , Sir ?
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best, BENSONmdHEDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine tobaccos . . .
• ENSON 4 HEDGES CTO
BY' APPOINTMENT
1 TOBACCONISTS TO
i *«E UAT6 KINO GEORGE V»
A
j/o'
London or Paris or Singapore
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world—from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore— so will he notice, on his varied journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from London
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson & Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STB EE T • LONDON • W
raw/tgfl
SATISFIED UTILITY OWNERS SAY
You can rely on Holden
FOR ECONOMY
-****£> wotort"*” |
tr out> S tanmore,
r^s-r^.
tree W\ a ‘ “°
i ■s^-jsr^ s
I do«»--J e sto*e8“" on -
“46,000 MILES . .
M yT: than 30
travelled over 46 non \ have
2 «olden UW%
been hard work Un^ S has
Editions. Petrol m I 6r 3,1
consistently better ? ge ' *
Per gallon.? 30
-
/
Economy and dependability. That’s what these
typical owners’ letters stress about Holden.
Other owners report favourably on Holden’s ease
erf handling, high resale value and low-cost, easy
to get factory guaranteed parts. Additionally,
Holden gives you 6 cyl. 21 h.p. performance,
roomy three-passenger cabin comfort and a
generous load area for a low initial cost. In
view of the very heavy demand for “New Look ”
Holden Utilities, we suggest you
place an order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Utility
List Price; £B5O Plus tax
• There are two Air Chief
Car Radios specially designed
for Holden. • Convenient hire
purchase arrangements are avail-
able through G.M.A.C.
General Motors’ own Hire
Purchase company.
Australia's Own Panel Van
£865 Plus Tax
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
FB4B
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH.
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers
throughout Australia
A COUPLE of years back I wrote here
of the wreck in 1866 of an Ameri-
can sailing-ship, the General Grant,
which sank in a cavern on one of the
Auckland Islands, east of N.Z., with a
fair lump of gold bullion from the Vic-
torian diggings aboard. There’s been
more than one attempt to recover the
gold, but so far ho one’s brought it home.
One crowd, operating from a long-boat,
is said to have hoisted up some of the
oof, but in a storm the long-boat
was lost —so presumably the shekels
then recovered are now resting on
a different part of the ocean - floor.
For that matter it probably all is : a diver
went down to look for the General Grant
shortly after World War I and found
hardly a trace of anything. Now it is
reported that two more expeditions, one
from Britain and one from Auckland
(N.Z.), are going to try their luck. I fear
that the island for which they’re heading
is for them aptly named—Disappoint-
ment. —“Kros.”
* * *
“Sack”: It’s one thing to be unafraid
of snakes—so far as walloping ’em with
a stick goes—but quite another to fondle
a carpet or diamond because “they’re not
venomous.” Still, the bloke who does is
not rare ; one of the type lived in our
town when it was young. He delighted
in joining a group wherever they hap-
pened to be having a yarn, entering in
the conversation, then casually slipping
his hand under his coat and bringing out
a snake. If nobody noticed until he
had draped the reptile around his neck
or allowed it to crawl over his neighbor’s
shoulder —with subsequent near-heart-
failure for the first bloke who saw it —
his roar of laughter could be heard at
the other end of the township. The joke
wore decidedly thin with most of us,
but strangers were still his meat. One
day he infiltrated into a conversation,
sprang his trick, and caused a wild scat-
ter amongst the little party of visitors;
but his peal of mirth did not ring out.
“He won't talk.”
Instead, he emitted a horrible gurgle,
clawed madly at his throat, then slowly
wilted. Only prompt action on the part
of a commercial-traveller, who managed
to straighten out the constricting coils,
saved the practical joker from being
throttled. The snake must’ve got sick
of the joke, too.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Go easy with those
white-ant poisons, mate! During damp
weather I treated the blocks of an out-
house, pouring the poison down the side
of the stumps. A few days, later a 40-
year-old shade-tree started to drop its
leaves, quickly withered and died. Our
goat ate the dropped leaves and also left
us for a better land. The trunk of the
tree was 36ft. away.
* * * *
“Bongerop”: There may not be as
much leg-pulling as “Spin” (B. 22/9/’54)
thinks concerning the tagaste or tree-
lucerne. More probably it is a case of a
tree having quite different habits of
growth according to climate and soil.
Here on the Murray sandhills the tagaste
grows into a big tree, with a wide-spread-
ing shape, and a butt a foot or more in
diameter. It supplies a considerable
amount of palataible green-feed, and
stands severe cutting. Also, although it
is a relatively quick grower, its life-span
here is 20 years and upwards. It has
one big weakness —white-ants love it.
* * * *
“Colac”: Forward, “Gravelsnafcher.”
I’m clearing a block at the beach. There’s
a clump of tuart-trees, about seven alto-
gather, all growing from the same root-
system. How am I going to get them
out? I’ve tried chopping them down
individually— cost so far, two axe-
handles. I’ve dug the biggest hole in
Westralia around the roots in an effort to
get at the taproot—no good: the root-
system is like a spider-web. So I
gathered a ton or so of brushwood and
lit a roaring fire under the lot and kept it
going for two days—also no good. If
“G’snatcher” can suggest a way out, short
of using a bulldozer, he’s on a good share
of the keg when we warm the house.
• • • •
Every few weeks a spark-
ling Super Snipe backs into the pig-
delivery yard next door to my allotment
and the driver and his mate, both well-
dressed, drag from the back compart-
ment a protesting, carefully napkined
and securely tied 2001 b. porker.
♦ * * *
“Wandana”; Like the wool-wagons
and droving-plants which have become
phantoms of the past (except in odd
corners), the shearers’ mode of transport
has given way to modern travel. In those
scattered islands of Bass Strait where
sheep are grown the jumbuck-barbers
now arrive on the job by plane. Recently
’ lonely Clarke Island had its first air-
visitors, when a party of shearers landed
to clip 3000 sheep. There’s a great saving
of time, which in itself is an item that
helps to offset the extra cost of air-travel.
* * ♦ *
“Medina”: Melbourne’s hill-suburbs
at the foot of the Dandenongs consist
almost entirely of weatherboard homes,
brick being unpopular because of the clay.
Occasional brick homes have been
erected, using the accustomed Sin,
cushion of sand (B. 8/9/’54), but they
have been affected by subsidence. Local
legend blames either yabbies or small
land-crabs, the theory being that they are
attracted to the warmth of the stone- or
brick-foundations and make their homes
there. The entrances are the usual long
passages, about %in. in diameter, going
straight into the ground. It’s the number
of these holes close to the foundations
that causes the subsidence.
THE ILLAWARRA
Between the range whose cliff-girt summit
stands
Against the curtain of the western sky,
And these stern headlands and these surf-swept
sands,
The Illawarra’s hills and valleys lie.
Green are her hundred hills; but greener are
Her valleys where the trailing willows sweep
Along the creeks; and forms irregular
Of great cloud-shadows pause and lightly sleep;
And in secluded gullies deep and cool
The birds and bees make music all the day;
And down beside a quiet, shady pool
Contented cattle stand with dreamy eyes;
And when the daylight softly steals away
The sea-wind whispers under starry skies.
N.S.W.
HAROLD W. DENNING.


ic THE TlMt TO
nd«d wane
SMIM CROPS and
ran
2,4-0 WiHert • • •
juwA*
a,e^f *e“rr«"B* ° f «■«
Th *!y’costs per hAAM SPRR**
linttll CO R00«* duty rotary 9 ear
tHO®!!: *e s»PP«ed a b V d rSe ot bo-^
haV MoUo ***£:*& '»«',
• T aTo supped range of bg-,^
- “Tyco »« hav ® tC Booms are «“J , 0 fit
-rf-" p
caSar- ,
QUICK REPLY COUPON
Please send all details of your boom
sprays. The weeds which worry me are:
Name: -
Address:.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 ... -
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
BRANCHES
TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
- - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
- BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
KEROSENE
TILLEY
PRESSURE
r
|amps
burn
brighter
longer!
SAFE —SIMPLE —CANNOT SPILL
12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY I£ PINTS OF KEROSENE
NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
Business. Rollery. Etc.
“Logistics” of Uranium
During the last war people
tended to become familiar with
the term “logistics,” which
covered the problem of supply-
ing and quartering armies in
the field. The term might be
applied almost equally aptly to
the problems of numerous specu-
lative mining ventures which
have sprung up in the past year
or two over almost the entire
Australian continent.
A week or so ago the public
were given a textbook example
of the “logistic” problems of
uranium-mining. North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corporation,
which had become a “glamor
stock” among the uranium
issues, announced that the
grade of ore indicated at its
Sleisbeck area (Arnhem Land,
N.T.) would not warrant the
cost of transport to the Govern-
ment treatment-plant at Rum
Jungle. The co.’s future lay in
the development of enough pay-
able ore to warrant the erection
of a treatment-plant at the
Sleisbeck area itself.
“Nauc” directors are to be
commended in acquainting their
shareholders promptly with the
real problems associated with
uranium-mining. Not only is
there a new generation of specu-
lators caught up in the mining
gamble without possessing even
an elementary knowledge of
familiar paining problems ; there
is also a general lack of know-
ledge of the particular problems
associated with uranium-mining.
As a correspondent has
emphasised in a letter to The
Bulletin, uranium-ore is just
so much mullock unless it will
bear transport and treatment
costs ; if it is intended to treat
the ore at the site of mining, it
would need to be an enormous
deposit to justify the capital cost.
Both at Radium Hill (S.A.)
and Rum Jungle (N.T.) the cost
of development and equipment
has run into millions of
pounds. Though, as time
goes by, it may be found
possible to produce some kind
of uranium “concentrate” at a
mine in order to reduce its bulk
and cut transport costs to the
nearest refinery, at present there
appears to be no such process or
plant available. The industry
still awaits the development of
a “package-plant.”
The economical treatment of
low- or medium-grade deposits
of uranium-bearing ore therefore
depends a great deal upon their
proximity to suitable existing
treatment - plants. Otherwise
many enterprises would be
grossly overcapitalised if they
had to erect their own treat-
ment-plants. And no mining-
show should contemplate put-
ting in major plant until it has
thoroughly tested its .mineral
deposit. Testing, too, costs
money and takes time —probably
years.
Apart from plant, the “Nauc’’
area is subject to heavy tropi-
cal “wet-season” rainfall. The
same applies to the Rum Jungle
area ; but it is near the Darwin-
Birdum railway, while Sleisbeck
is about 60 miles off the north-
south route. The problem of get-
ting suitable labor in out-of-the-
way places like the South
Alligator River would not be an
easy one.
The Mt. Isa-Cloncurry area is
not so remote, but it will need its
own treatment-plant—if it can
support one. A.O.E. and
Petroleum Drilling Corp.
(“Santa Fe”) propose to establish
a joint one.
As time goes by the investing
> public will come to learn of
, many more down-to-earth prob-
lems associated with their min-
ing speculations. There is an
awful lot of dirt and different
kinds of rock and minerals
mixed up with precious and rare
metals in this country; there is
a lot of geography mixed up
with them, too. And speculators
should remember that most of
the uproarious speculation which
has taken place in oil and
uranium ventures jumped from
a standing start less than a year
ago. Not much time for techni-
cal organisation or the study of
logistics in that period!
Market Slackness
The slackening in market
support for industrial shares and
the slump in oil and uranium
issues should not have come as
a surprise to Bulletin readers
A crash in speculative mining-
share prices was bound to come,
with a more sober assessment of
long-term economic prospects (if
any) of individual enterprises to
be the ultimate arbiter of share-
values. With regard to indus-
trials, a number of uncertain
factors exist at the moment,
including the seasonal outlook
and the price of wheat. The
external balance -of - payments
position calls for caution, and
the credit situation is tightening,
with some reason.
All of which will tend to tone-
down exuberant bidding for
shares. Nevertheless some
concerns should show record
profits during 1954-55. And
most soundly based enterprises
should do well. It is a matter of
selecting the company that is
doing well when investing today,
not counting on any general
upward trend in share-prices.
Stocks which have reacted
downwards fairly violently have
been Kandos Cement (from 435.
to 365. 3d.), F. J. Walker (from
“The display of gyrotic impulses indicating radiative
energy point to the presence of uranium elements.”
275. to 235. 6d.), Masonite (575.
to 505.) and Australian Con-
solidated Industries (50s. 9d. in
August to 445. 9d.).
One of the steadiest stocks on
’Change over the past few years
has been John Mcllwraith Indus-
tries, Ltd., Melbourne. Its 10s.
shares can be bought at 21s. 9d.,
to yield 5.7 p.c.
Exploratory Drilling
t A -i-if £
K! 9™ en; lc
No. 4 Rough Range well (W.A.)
at a distance of less than 600
yards to the south of the No. 1
location indicates that Wapet is
now convinced that the “pool”
which was penetrated by the
bore on the No. 1 site at 3605 ft.
is of very limited extent in the
Cretaceous sand at that depth.
Drilling at the No. 4 well should
therefore be considered as de-
signed to strike, if possible, the
southern extension (if such
exists) of No. I’s oil and thus
ease the severity of calls on
shareholders, or of new issues to
provide for the further explora-
tory drilling.
While neither No. 2 Rough
Range well (3000yds. south-west
of No. 1) nor No. 3 (1000yds.
north-east) can now correctly be
described as “developmental,” it
must not be assumed that the
time and money spent in sinking
them has been wasted. In fact,
most valuable information has
been obtained from them to per-
mit a true assessment of the oil-
producing potentialities of the
region.
The discarding of the miscon-
ceptions and exaggerated valua-
tions, based on reconnaissance
surveys, is a healthy sign and will
help the companies concerned to
face, with realism, the inevitable
risks involved in the search for
oil in Australia. Every oil-pro-
ducing country has passed, dur-
ing the exploratory and develop-
mental stages, through high opti-
mism and deep pessimism—both
equally unwarranted at the times
when the Y were manifest-before
settling down to a sometimes
spectacular degree of success.
F _, „r . . .
. The casualties along the road
have „. been . heavy-and such
casualties will occur, doubtless
amongst the companies which
have taken up the hunt for petro-
leum m Australia, especially m
cases where the management
does , not Jf s f s a , f u f c i e . n,ly
fxpenenced technical staff. There
If . a on f, way t 0 however,
be f orc Jf despondency now
being exhibited by former rank
optimists is justified,
In Papua—despite tremendous
climatic, topographic and strati-
graphic difficulties, and the
necessity of having to employ
unreliable and temperamental
unskilled labor—Australasian
Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion have not faltered in their
persistent and very courageous
efforts to reach the deep oil
which—as certainly as one can
judge in the oil game—underlies
the western limits of that coun-
try. The companies concerned
have, however, never suggested
that any well they have sunk, or
propose to drill in the near
future, is any other than
exploratory.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VIVIAN WOLSBEEY CLEMENT
GRIBBLE late of 58 Hector Road
Willoughby.—T AKE NOTICE that
EILEEN HANNAN falsely called EILEEN
GRIBBLE has filed a Petition for nullity
of marriage No. 3060 of 1954 on the
ground that at the time of the ceremony
of her marriage to yourself you were
then still the husband of LORIS
GRAHAM If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney on or before the 16th day of November
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. JOHN H.
YELDHAM & SPAIN, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 137 Pacific Highway, North
Sydney, or from their Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. ALLAN UTHER & COMPANY,
Solicitors, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELDRED ARMOUR HANKEY late of
Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE that BRENDA
JOYCE HANKEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3598 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of
January 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MADDOOKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN WILLIAM BENFIELD late
of Regent Street Redfern.—TAKE NOTICE
that BETTY IRENE BENFIELD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3866 of
1953 on the ground of repeated assaults
and cruel beatings during one year prior
to the presentation of the said Petition.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
14th February 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from KEITH
YOUMAN, Solicitor, of 29 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEAKS A
NEO-
BAEBEKE
| No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
d
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all whb have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAEBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3z), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
AST MALVERN STRATFORD MELBOURNE ROTORUA FITZROY GARDENVAU
vLMERSTON NORTH WAGGA WAGGA HAMPTON OAMARU WHYALLA IVA*
PIER KEW LEICHHARDT LEVIN MENTONE FREMANTLE MANGONUI SYO
I
ULVERSTONE PORT KEMBLA BUNDABERG &
A OAKEY STANLEY CHRISTCHO*»~
tUHU TEMORA GAYND* 1 ’
*ISH TOWN IN***
NTH * * *
600 A.N.Z. BANK MANAGERS
SERVING THE PUBLIC
There are 600 A.N.Z. Bank Managers serving the
public throughout Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji and Papua, and in London. Behind them
stand the widespread organization and accumu-
lated experience of the entire Bank.
In association with your local A.N.Z. Bank
Manager you can establish a banking connection
which will serve you long and faithfully, whether
your requirements are purely local or world-wide«
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK, LIMITED
Over 780 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand *
in Fiji and Papua , and in London . Agents throughout the world .
i
ANDALE PRAHRAN BONDI NEDLANDS F
<ILDA MIfCHAM HASTINGS
MY WILLIAMSTOWN EPPING
\RVON ALEXAN^B>^
VILLE
LD DERBY
NUNDAH
HA DAYLE
ECHUCA
GEELONG s K^
KATOOMBA NOT^s^^
LOELA H
H
JWOOD INVERCARGILL C*
DOUBLE BAV
FEATHERSTON
CLAYFIELO
PJJJJbO LUTWYCHE t
"**-IIVANGERUP BALC
■Vra CASTERTOM
ASHBURT*
BJrankston-
hamiltc
j»T KERANG S'
Stha MANLY B(
A-N-Z
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia
(Established 1835)
The Union Bank of Australia ltd.
(Established 1837)
■ANZ. 140.12 i
S'
fy
Take-off in mid-Atlantic
Two days out from New York. Passengers
gather on depk as the luxury liner
* Europa 5 creams through the Atlantic.
A platform carrying a grey Lufthansa
seaplane swings, heading the wind.
A lever is pulled—and the seaplane
hurtles into the air, propelled by a power-
ful launching catapult. The ’plane
climbs, circles the great liner once and
sets course for Southampton, England.
It brings mails to England a clear three
days before the ‘Europa’ docks.
This seaplane mail service, started in
1931, attracted much attention and gained
a lot of credit for the Norddeutscher
Lloyd Line. Credit, too, for BP gasoline
which was supplied for this, and other
Lufthansa services.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to keep
pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to provide
aviation fuels speedily and efficiently.
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The essential difference be-
tween the two political confer-
ences is that, with the Conserva-
tives, the delegates’ resolutions
are not binding ; with the Social-
ists they must, according to the
constitution, be included in the
party programme. It is this cir-
cumstance (and, true enough,
quieter manners) that makes the
Conservative get-together much
less exciting than their oppon-
ents’. Which of the two sys-
tems is the more democratic, or
the more efficacious, is beside
the point. And the point is
simply this—that the Socialist
system can be exceedingly
troublesome and embarrassing to
the “platform.”
Somehow the national execu-
tive committee’s emergency
resolution in favor of German
rearmament, disguised and
bowdlerised almost to incom-
prehensibility, had to be carried
despite the substantial declared
opposition to it. This meant a
frantic time for those with the
party’s interests at heart, mar-
shalling arguments, buttonholing
the wayward and generally
lobbying for all they were worth.
They won the day. But it was a
near thing—a majority of
248.000 out of a total poll of
6.292.000 votes —and entirely
due to their winning over the
129.000 votes of the wood-
workers, who had voted the
other way at the Trades Union
Conference.
So Attlee is free to go ahead
with his bilateralism with a clear
conscience, if hardly with an
easy mind. His party is split
upon this vital issue as near to
half-and-half as makes no dif-
ference. Once again he has
remained inscrutable, almost
silent, and has let the crisis sort
itself out. He has emerged, too.
in an immeasurably stronger
position.
Shift of Balance
For the time being (that is to
say, until after the next general
election), the Labor party gives
promise of closer adhesion. The
factors that govern this are
opposite—the rise of Oaitskell
and the fall of Bevan. Gaitskell
was always expected to win the
treasurership but not by such an
overwhelming vote (4,338,000 to
2,032,000). His total must have
included at least half the con-
stituency votes, reflecting a lack
of confidence in the administra-
tive capacity of Bevan.
The new treasurer is a shrewd
good-mixer as well as a first-rate
Parliamentarian. His immediate
task is to build up the party’s
finances and to marshal its re-
sources in readiness for the
general election which may come
next year. As the darling of the
trade-union leaders and the
trusted associate of Attlee and
Morrison, Gaitskell is well
favored. If he succeeds in his
objective he will have earned for
himself a grateful and powerful
title to future leadership of the
party.
As his headstrong actions have
suggested, Nye Bevan is losing
his grip. It is impossible to
account for his cry-baby spite
and self-willed testiness in terms
of political tactics, with some
deep subtlety underlying them.
Impatient and incensed that the
faithful should prefer Gaitskell
to himself, he had to give way to
another Bevanism —that the
world is upside-down when it
prefers “a desiccated calculating-
machine” to a master of
righteous indignation. He had an
unhappy time at the conference,
even to publicly expressed digs
at his well-appointed Bucking-
hamshire farm. And, unkindest
cut, he was sent to Coventry by
the trade-union big-wigs, who
disdainfully ignored his jibes—
a sure sign that they treated him
as of little moment. It is said,
too, that his clique of supporters
is breaking up, not so much
because their Leftish convictions
are any less firm as because they
disapprove of his precipitate
actions.
There is talk even of his ulti-
mate expulsion from the party,
now that he is free to say what
he chooses. And, since he is
such an electoral asset to the
Conservatives, the less the
danger of his having to be given
a place in a possible Cabinet the
more the Labor-party organisers
will rejoice.
Theatre Walkabout
The autumn season in the
theatre seems to belong to the
past. No longer do dramatic
critics need to conserve their
energy and store their adjectives
for a mad rush of consecutive
first-nights. Maybe the econo-
mics of the present-day theatre
and the absence of the former
dressy “little season” account
for its passing. At all events, a
glance at the playbill proves that
the new shows average out at
not more than one a week. Nor
are they striking for their inno-
vation.
Of these, two are farces. “No
News From Father” (Cam-
bridge) is a translation from the
Dutch. “The Party Spirit”
(Piccadilly) is good bread-and-
butter stuff, with Robertson
Hare and Ralph Lynn as their
hilarious selves. John Van
Druten’s “Bell, Book and
Candle” is soon to open at the
Phoenix, but, although new to
London, it is’virtually a revival.
And the week after, the Cole
Porter musical comedy, “Can-
Can,” replaces “Guys and Dolls”
at the Coliseum.
There is a near-famine in
straight plays. Warren Chetham-
Strode is a dramatist who loves
to get his teeth into a human
problem, and the theme of “The
Pet Shop” was promising
enough. It dealt with the reac-
tions, on learning the double
truth, of a girl deliberately con-
ceived out of wedlock and led
to believe that she was legally
adopted. But the power of the
conflict did not extend to the
writing, and the play came off
after a week.
This failure leaves only Ter-
ence Rattigan to uphold the
status of the English theatre.
“Separate Tables” (St. James’s)
is two plays in one, with botji set
in a Bournemouth guest-house.
This is the other Rattigan,
serious, tale-unfolding, crafts-
manlike. And he is well served
by Eric Portman and Margaret
Leighton in two widely con-
trasted “doubles,”
“Joyce Grenfell Requests the
Pleasure ” has transferred to
St. Martin’s. Miss Grenfell,
an amateur whom Herbert Far-
jeon translated from a private
party to one of his revues some
15 years ago, is still too modest
to refer to herself as an actress.
She writes her own material and
her range is slight. Yet she (like
Jane Austen, with whom she has
been compared) is delightful in
her very limitation. Her satire
is keen and quite free of malice.
There are only four people in
the company—the other three
are dancers. Richard Addinsell’s
music is accomplished and witty.
Finally, the Old Vic season
has opened with “Macbeth.”
Douglas Stewart has already
reviewed this from the Edin-
burgh Festival. He shall have
the last word.


33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED fT1.000.000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
YOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family,
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor—or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many or
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company s helpful and informative boo et,
“Your Executor and Trustee’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUALJRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND SST" "
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
'TECHNICALLY and financially the big
Dunlop group—largest thing of its
kind in the Southern Hemisphere—is
in a stronger position than ever before.
This and other things have enhanced the
equity prospects of those on the ord.
register. Seven years ago, when the
board set out on an extensive and costly
programme of expansion and develop-
ment, it was decided to keep the div.
steady (the rate had been lifted from
5 p.c. to 8 p.c.) and plough-back the
balance of net earnings. The original
programme is now virtually complete.
Meanwhile, however, rapid expansion of
the economy has called for further sub-
stantial additions to plant and equipment.
The need to plough back a substantial
part of net earnings to help meet the
outlay has, therefore, not yet disappeared.
Hence the moderate lift in the dividend-
rate from 8 p.c. to 81 p.c. last term.
Over the last couple of years the price
of the co.’s scrip has moved more in step
with trends in the equity market than
with prospects for the business itself. ’The
f.-p. £1 ords., which rose from a low of
275. 7d. in 1953 to a high of 355. in
1954, recently fetched 335. 9d. The return
at 335. 9d. is 5 p.c. on an 81 p.c. div.
basis. A 10 p.c. distribution —covered
by last term’s net earnings with £374,225
to spare —would lift the return to 5.9 p.c.,
which looks like an ultimate but not
immediate prospect. The £1 10 p.c. prefs.
—930,000 in a paid capital of £7,267,500
—at 375. (same as a year ago) yield 5.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £ll 15s. lOd. prefs.
and 31s. Bd. ords.
The parent co. and its eight subsidiaries
operate 18 factories scattered throughout
the Commonwealth. They turn out car-,
truck- and tractor-tyres, rubber-footwear,
rubber-flooring and industrial-belting,
latex upholstery and mattresses, wet-cell
batteries, tennis 7 racquets and gut, tennis-
and golf-balls and a variety of other lines.
Since 1947 shareholders have put up
£3,726,159 (£2,571,845 capital and
£1,154,314 share-premiums), £1,856,000,
of which £200,000 has been repaid, was
raised on 4\ p.c. debentures, which are
earning a lot more than their keep, and a
large amount has been added to the float-
ing debt, too.
As new plant came into production
and new subsidiary undertakings were
established turnover and earnings
responded. The ratio of net earnings to
average ord. capital (after deducting the
pref. div.) rose from an average of
8.5 p.c. for the five years to 1947 to an
average of approximately 14 p.c. for the
seven years to the close of last accounts.
And at no time during the latter period
had the group developed full earning-
power, because there were always some
new assets not contributing to the pool.
Last term new technical achievements
enhanced both quality and competitive
power of many of the co.’s products,
especially tyres. Output and sales
increased substantially in all sections,
and selling-prices of tyres and other lines
were reduced, thanks to the cheapening
of raw rubber. The growth in Australian
output of motor- and tractor-tyres—
biggest single item in the co.’s turnover —
was 70 p.c., compared with a contraction
of 33 p.c. in the previous year.
After allowing £735,684 (up £208,882)
for depreciation, what looks like a
generous £819,119 for taxation, and
tossing £163,396 into the contingencies
reserve (now £908,542), net earnings of
the group advanced by £346,296, reaching
£1,100,975:
Parent and Subsidiaries,*
Net r Dividends ■, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1950..757,118 10 8 394,252 362,860 1,273,051
To special stock reserve, £175,000 .. 1,098,051
Share premiums, £679,002 .. .. 1,777,053
Net reduction reserves, £4123 .. .. 1,772,930
1951. .900,162 10 8 452,117 448,045 2,220,975
To special stock reserve, £125,000 .. 2,095,975
Share premiums, £475,312 .. .. 2,571,287
Reduction reserves, £164,912 net .. 2,406,875
1952. .888,389 10 8 527,119 361,270 2,767,645
Tax overprovided, £9035 .. . . 2,776,680
Reduction intangibles, £9O .. .. 2,776,770
Unexplained increase, £34,970 . . 2,811,740
1953. .754,679 10 8 600,000 154,679 2,966,419
From special stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 8,066,419
1 To contingencies reserve, £163,396 .. 3,229,815
Added intangibles, £537 . . . . 3,229,278
1954 1,100,975 10 8* 631,687 469,288 3,698,566
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £731,576).
After paying the pref. div. (£93,000), the
balance of the year’s profit was 15.9 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 10.4, 14.6, 18,
17.6 and 9.6 p.c. back to 1949. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserve com-
bined) the year’s profit was 9.4 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements indicate
preparation for yet-bigger trading:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £7,267,500 £7,267,500 £7,267,500
Reserves . . 3,498,774 3,797,458 4,430,142
Outside interest 42,132 26,560 119,819
Debentures, etc. 1,856,000 1,756,000 1,656,000
Overdraft .. 2,173,686
Sundry creditors 2,236,588 1,809,036 1,804,081
Tax reserve . . 1,519,121 910,739 1,056,477
Final divs. . . 325,449 353,230 395,223
Total .. £18,919,250 £15,920,523 £16,729,242
Freeholds, etc. 2,136,670 2,597,766 3,266,702
Plant, etc. . . 2,582,295 2,687,360 2,776,472
Stocks) .. 10,018,495 6,249,707 5,655,411
Debtors .. 3,378,550 3,230,927 3,549,077
Investments .. 67,269 56,236 5,534
Cash, etc. .. 4,842 367,488 744,470
Intangibles .. 731,129 731.039 731,576
Total .. £18,919,250 £15,920,523 £16,729,242
f After deducting special reserve, £300,000, 1951
and 1952 ; £200,000, 1953 and 1954.
Extension of the footwear factory at
Bankstown (N.S.W.), completion of the
first section of the industrial rubber-
goods factory at Bayswater (Vic.), erec-
tion of a new factory at Adelaide, and
additions to the Montague (Vic.), Dfum-
moyne (N.S.W.) and other plants, added
£668,936 to the book-value of freeholds
and £89,112 to plant. Debtors’ balances
increased by £318,150, and cash, etc., was
strengthened by £376,982, while stocks
were reduced by £594,296 and £lOO,OOO
was clipped off the debenture debt.
Despite the heavy outlay on fixed assets,
the shrinkage in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£5,042,704) was only £32,649.
Repco, Ltd.
FROM modest beginnings in 1937,
when three established concerns in
Melbourne were taken over, the Repco
group has grown (since the war) into the
biggest manufacturer of automotive
parts, accessories and drop-forgings, etc.,
in Australia. By bringing under one
control a number of allied interests and
integrating their activities by a process of
specialisation in manufacture, the hold-
ing co. has eliminated much waste in
buying and selling, as well as overlapping
in organisation, to the benefit of turn-
over and unit costs.
The operating units are:
Subsidiaries: A. T. Richardson and
Sons Pty.; Paton’s Brake Replacements
Pty.; Russell Manufacturing Co. Pty.;
Repco Bearing Co. Pty.; P. J. Bearings
Pty.; Repco Universal Joints Pty.; Special-
ialised Engineering Pty.; all of which manu-
facture automotive engine parts, including
ring-gears, brake parts, pistons, rings,
valve-guides, gaskets, bearings, universal
joints, etc. Replacement Parts Pty. and
Replacement Parts (Tas.) Pty., with 12
branches in Victoria and Tasmania, look
after the distributing and engineering side
in conjunction with Auto Grinding Co. Pty.
Brenco Pty., Warren and Brown Pty. and
Replex Pty. manufacture tools and testing-
equipment, while Repco Export Co. looks
after the overseas trade. Associated Cos. :
Payen, Byrne and Blackford Pty. (Brisbane),
makers of all types of automotive and
industrial gaskets; Kirkstall-Repco Pty.
(Melbourne), makers of truck- and tractor-
axles and components and allied drop-
forgings; Precision Metal Stampings Pty.,
makers of a wide range of oil seals ;
Cooper’s Mechanical Joints (Aust.) Pty.,
production of copper-asbestos gaskets.
Last term Engineering Components, Ltd.
(Eng.) bought a half-interest in Preci-
sion Metal Stampings, which is erecting
a new factory at East Bentleigh (Vic.).
Several other units in the group are in the
process of development and consolida-
tion. Since the close of accounts a new
subsidiary, Hardy Spicer (Aust.) Pty., an
offshoot of Birfield Industries, Ltd.
(Eng.), which makes universal-) oints and
propeller-shafts, was bought for an
unstated amount in f.-p. Repco shares.
To acquire these interests and provide
working funds, £1,477,507 —with it came
£1,237,692 of share-premiums —has been
added to issued capital since 1946, raising
the figure to £1,777,507 at June 30 last;
there was then £11,770 to come in. Also
£1,066,500 of 6 p.c. unsecured registered
notes were issued in December, 1952 ;
they are earning more than their keep
and are convertible into ord. shares at a
premium of 10s. each on December 1,
1956, or redeemable at par a year later.
The development has been profitable
as well as rapid. A run of 10 p.c. divs,
was followed by a steady 12£ p.c. for
the three years to 1950, and then 15 p.c.
for the four years to June 30, 1954. Last
term demand strengthened, outputs in-
creased, costs were steadier and all the
subsidiaries earned profits, except
Specialised Engineering (loss £5074).
After setting aside £79,649 (up £9586)
for depreciation and £159,444 (down
£1296) for taxation, there was a spring
of £47.141 in the combined net earnings,
excluding associated cos.:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June Profit. , Dividends ——Reserves.*
30, £ p.c. £ £
1950 . . 188,518 121 108,994 777,303
Share premiums, £187,682 .. .. 964,985
1951 .. 262,672 15 155,255 1,072,402
Share premiums, £298,786 . . . . 1,371,188
1952 . . 802,239 15 218,237 1,455,140
Share premiums, £225,129 .. .. 1,680,269
1953 .. 241,123 15 262,203 1,659,189
Preraiums-employee shares, £6220 .. 1,665,409
Profit sale assets, £6422 . . . . 1,671,831
Tax overprovided, £31,95i .. .. 1,703,782
1954 . . 288,264 15 263,974 1,728,072
* Subject to intangibles, £444,342 at 30/6/’54.
The £288,264 of profit, which leaves out
of the reckoning £31,951 overprovided
for taxation in 1953, was 16.3 p.c. on
average capital as against 13.7, 20.8, 25.3,
21.6 and 18.7 p.c. back to 1949. Main-
tenance of the div. at 15 p.c. for the two
years to 1954 was a generous gesture,
which called for all but £3210 of the
declared net earnings, and can be taken
as an expression of the board’s confidence
in the future of the undertaking. The
£1,728,072 of reserves is subject to
£444,342 of intangibles.
Growth of the undertaking was more
pronounced last term than movements in
balance-sheet figures suggest, because
Precision Metal Stampings Pty.,
previously a subsidiary, is now an
associated co.: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,585,166 £1,753,919 £1,765,737
Reserves . . .. 1,455,140 1,659,189 1,728,072
6% notes .. 1.066.500 1.066.500
Overdraft . . 668,389 358,836 342,983
Creditors ~ 414,056 340,436 535,987
Tax provision .... 391,593 180,748 174,237
Staff fund .. 26,074 25,763- 26.870
Pinal divs. .. 118,887 181,544 132,430
£4,659,255 £5,516,935 £5,772,816
Freeholds - * 770,056 939,013 1,013,663
Plant, vehicles, etc. 785,879 979,925 1,06.,036
Shares assoc, co. 200,000 429,047 566,876
Stock . . • • 1,693,194 1,793,103 1,732,443
Debtors .. . . 896,668 909,632 938,443
Cash 8,691 13,799 10,013
Intangibles .. 304,767 452,416 444,342
£5,516,935 £5.772,816
The holding in associated concerns
increased by £137,829. Net additions to
other assets were £74,650 freeholds,
£87,111 plant, etc., and £2B*Bll debtors’
balances. Stocks were reduced by £60,660,
while £15,853 was chipped off the over-
draft, and the amount coming to sundry
creditors increase by £195,551.
Since the close of accounts turnover
has been running ahead of that for the
corresponding period last term. The
Kirkstall-Repco venture has passed the
break-even point, and additions are to be
made to plant and equipment. The
Hardy Spicer and Specialised Engineer-
ing cos. are also expected to contribute
to the current term’s profit. Subject to
economic developments and the course of
competition, steady growth of the under-
taking is anticipated.
At 525. (455. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 shares return 5.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover is
345. 6d.
Caesar Fabrics, Ltd.
SINCE the public became interested in
this well-handled 28-year-old importer
of cotton fabrics, etc., in 1949, the co.
has put up a commendable performance.
Paid capital has grown from £171,380 to
£300,000, reserves have climbed from
£24,710 to £251,920, and those on the
ord. register have had divs. averaging 10
p.c. At the moment it looks like remain-
ing a steady 10 p.c. proposition, with
encouraging long-term prospects.
The co. is sole importer and distribu-
tor in Australia of several lines of Man-
chester cotton-fabrics, which have long
been the backbone of earnings. Activi-
ties also include importation of addi-
tional cotton and other piecegoods, as
well as operation of a small woollen-
and worsted-weaving mill and of two
small subsidiary cos. in Adelaide —
Caesar Fabrics (S.A.) Pty. and Herald
Clothing Co., Ltd.
In common with other importers, earn-
ings received a jolt in 1952 —due more
to price-cutting and writing-down of
stock-values than to fall in turnover—
and the div. was lowered from 10 p.c. to
8 p.c., though enough was earned to
pay the higher rate. With the
help of various Government measures,
etc., including import - restrictions,
which fended competition from
overseas, the recovery was prompt,
and the div. was restored to 10 p.c. again
in 1953 ; then, to compensate for the cut
in 1952, a 2 p.c. bonus was added last
term, making 12 p.c. for the year.
Features of the year’s trading were an
18 p.c. increase in turnover, exceptional
stability of the economy and no marked
increase in competition during the first
nine months. After setting aside £3115
(unchanged) for depreciation and £39,169
(up £7739) for taxation, there was a
spring of £11,058 in combined net earn-
ings of parent and Subsidiaries;
Caesar Fabrics and Subsidiaries,
f Dividends —\ R e '
June, Profit. Pref. < Ordinary——, serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £30,997 .. •• £5,707
1949.. 41,316 10 p.c. = 18,478 £8,545
Unexplained addition, £1067 .. • •
1950.. 62,437 10 p.c. = 22,500 119.539
Unexplained addition, £223 .. • •
1951.. 79,884 625 10 p.c. = 22,500 176,521
Added intangibles, £3 • • • •
1952.. 26,903 3750 8 p.c. = 18,000 181.671
Unexplained addition, £425 • • • • Iff ,096
1953.. 57,885 3750 10 p.c. = 22,500 213,731
Added intangibles, £4 .. ■ • • • 213,727
1954.. 68,943 3750 12 p.c. = 27,000 251,920
* After deducting intangibles (now £746).
The £68,943 of profit (second best yet)
covered the pref. div. and 28.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 24, 10.2, 35.2, 27.7
and 22.3 p.c. back to 1949. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 12.4 p.c.,
suggesting, among other things, good
buying and a tight hold upon controllable
outgoings. .
The headquarters freehold in Kent-
street, Sydney, was bought during the
year, thus mitigating the rates-rental
problem and anchoring the goodwill
associated with location. The book-value


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Research in Industry . . ,
No. 7 of a Series
w.
a
Silent
Witnesses
In days gone by, the manu-
facture of nitroglycerine
for Explosives was con-
trolled by men seated on
one-legged stools. It was
reckoned that, if the strain
made them sleepy they
would soon fall over and
wake up.
Modern control methods
present a very different
picture and the recently
installed Explosives plant
at Deer Park, Victoria, is one of the most modern in the world. It
makes use of every possible automatic control and does mechanically
many operations which previously could only be done by hand. There
are other ICIANZ factories producing detonators and fuse which are,
of course, essential items in the use of Explosives.
The output from these plants serves Australia in many ways —in
mining —in quarrying —in building roads water storages —in
agriculture hydro-electric schemes and so on. In all of these fields,
research is a most important item and experiments and trials are
continually being carried out in Australia to devise new types of
Explosives and to find new ways of using them so that they will be
best suited to local conditions.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES /jcN
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
H. 588.218
d
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). V. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. O. MAITLAND. Managing Director. JL E. M ANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Conntry Centres
Fatih in the
Future
Every mind forms its own values. To mine, the
most important thing that has happened within
Australia in the last few years—if not in the whole
half-century since Federation —is the complete revision
of this country’s soil standards.
It has come to us from our soil scientists, and
from workers in the field of pasture research.
In the years that have gone, the choicest parts
of this continent were taken up for settlement There
was a natural desire to farm “on the fringe.”
All that is being changed.
Of Australia’s 2,975,000 square miles, we were
told that —
270.000 sq. m, (9 per cent.) were climatically
suited for agriculture and intensive stock raising in
all seasons of the year ;
445.000 sq. m. (15 per cent.) lent themselves to
such use in certain seasons;
and 1,250,000 sq. m. (42 per cent.) were arid
pastures for extensive sheep and cattle raising, with
the remaining 1,010,000 sq. m. mainly desert and
uninhabitable.
Australia knows the story of what has been
accomplished in three years by the addition of trace
elements to the soil on portion of the “Ninety Mile
Desert” in South Australia.
“Desert” was turned into pastures carrying two
sheep to the acre!
How much more of our land once classed fair
to poor will be converted into provinces of wealth
by the addition of zinc, copper, molybdenum and
cobalt —only the future will tell.
Now, this widens our horizons more than we
know. It means, for one thing, that all past estimates
of Australia’s peak in population can well be recast.
Linked with it, of course, is the introduction and
sowing of more nutrient pastures on the fortified
soil. That, and the storage of water for stock and
for irrigation, make up the triple key.
Spectacular as all this may be, it does not hold
every answer for the primary producer.
But we can say, in all confidence, that Australia
now has richer promise in its land than ever before.
of land and buildings increased
by £40,431:
Caesar Fabrics and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref £75,000 £75,000
Ord. . . . . 225,000 225,000
Reserves . . . . 214,473 252,666
Overdraft .. .. 10,206
Creditors . . . . 145,946 180,530
Loans .. .. .. 78,530 90,709
Staff funds . . . . 1,000 2,500
Tax provision . . 31,600 39,150
Final divs 15,375 17,625
£786,924 £893,386
Land, buildings .. 14,346 54,777
Plant 35,863 37,244
Stocks .. . . 469,929 602,688
Debtors .. .. 217,376 197,870
Cash, etc. .. . . 48,668 61
Intangibles ~ 742 746
£786,924 £893,386
The growth of £132,759 in stocks
and reduction of £19,506 in
debtors’ balances was mainly on
account of late arrival of
summer goods. Since the close
of accounts stocks have been
reduced by nearly £200,000. The
slip in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£459,899) was only
£3623, despite the outlay on fixed
assets.
For the current term turnover
is thus far running about 10 p.c.
above last year’s level. But
competition is becoming keener
and margins narrower. Still,
another good showing at next
balance seems assured.
At 335. 9d. (30s. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 ords. return 7.1 p.c.
on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution, or 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. Net tangible cover is
425. sd.
H. B. Selby (Aust.), Ltd.
CriNCE the public became in-
terested in 1949, the well-
established Selby group, which
imports, manufactures and dis-
tributes a wide range of scientific
equipment and fine chemicals,
etc., has steadily expanded its
activities and earning-power.
And the process continues,
though there has been little
opportunity of accumulating
much fat. This and other things
mean that the future level of
earnings, and therefore divs., is
likely to remain sensitive to rises
and falls in the economic
' barometer.
The growth in turnover for
the year to June 30 last absorbed
the extra cost of setting up a
new branch at Adelaide, as well
as removal exes., etc., at Perth,
and enabled £2639 to be added
to the overall trading profit;
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends—serves serves.t
1951.. 062 8 p.c.=18,020 6,042 5,492
1952.. 8 „ „ 19,414 6,387 11,879
1953.. 9 „ „ 24,667 9,989 21,868
Profit sale assets, £lll4 .. 22,982
1954.. 295 10 p.c.=:27,600 9,795 32,777
+ After deducting intangibles, £12,321 at
June 30, 1954. * Includes profits of the
Sydney subsidiary for nine months only.
A capital gain of £lll4 on sales
of fixed assets has been added
to reserves. The net trading
result (£37,295) was the best yet,
being equal to 13.5 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 12.6, 10.6
and 10.6 p.c. fpr the three pre-
ceding years. The div., which
had climbed from 7 p.c. in 1949
to 9 p.c. in 1953, was lifted to
10 p.c.
It is doubtful whether
better than 10 p.c. need
be looked for in the near future.
Phe board, uncertain how
long current trends will con-
tinue, has decided to follow a
plan of consolidation to “ensure
that the co. will be better able
to withstand any setback.”
Among the co.’s best customers
are industrial laboratories,
schools, universities, Govern-
ment departments and hospitals.
The holding co., formed in
April, 1949, bought all the issued
capital in the two operating con-
cerns —the one at Melbourne
kicked off in 1900 and the other
at Sydney in 1912—for £120,000
in its own scrip. At the same
time it made a public issue of
99,500 £1 ords. at par. A branch
was opened at Brisbane in 1949,
another at Perth in 1951 and a
third at Adelaide in February,
1954.
For the encouraging growth
of balance-sheet figures last
term the Adelaide branch was
partly responsible:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £274,080 £274,080 £275,000
Reserves . . 24,200 34,189 45,098
Mortgage .. 40,000 40,000 40,000
Overdraft .. 61,408 29,501 58,638
Creditors . . 40,323 34,897 67,062
Tax provision 32,032 22,600 80,556
Pinal dividend 12,562 16,445 16,500
Total . . £ 484,605 £ 451,712 £532,854
Freeholds .. 170,963 V 169,650 174,791
Plant .. 20,251 23,139 34,917
Stock ■.. 196,596 165,167 198,752
Debtors .'. 84,235 81,187 111,123
Cash . . 239 248 950
Intangibles . 12,321 12,321 12,321
Total .. £484,605 £451,712 £532,854
To meet net additions of £16,919
to fixed assets, £33,585 to stocks
and £29,936 to book-debts, an
extra £29,137 was raised on over-
draft and the amount coming
to sundry creditors was increased
by £32,165. There is nothing to
suggest that shareholders are
likely to be asked for more at
an early date.
The f.-p. £1 shares, which sold
at 255. a year ago, recently
fetched 325., at which figure the
return is 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 225. 4d.
North Aust. Uranium Corp.
rvN the strength of nothing
more substantial than early
surface indication of patches of
high-grade uranium-ore on the
co.’s new Sleisbeck leases, on
the edge of Arnhem Land (N.T.),
unsophisticated speculators, who
saw more in the picture than
really existed, pushed the price
of the ss. shares paid to 2s. 6d.
from 325. to 50s. each during
August.
As the board’s regular and
full reports were issued, the pic-
ture began to look less glamor-
ous, buying pressure in the
sharemarket eased and the price
of the scrip had dropped to
325. 6d. on September 29. A
further and very full report on
October 6, which further modi-
fied the co.’s immediate pros-
pects as a potential profit-
earner, was followed by
announcement that the uncalled
2s. 6d. per share on the con-
tribs. would become payable on
or before November 10. Scrip,
some of which was obviously in
weak hands, flooded into the
market, and the price slumped
to 12s. 6d. on October 13. The
figure had recovered to 19s. 6d.
last weekend. The lesson,
especially for the of
small , means, is don’t risk more
than you can afford to lose.
The management has lost no
time in getting to work on
surface preparations and pre-
liminary development. Offices
and dwelling-quarters have been
erected, and an air-strip and
some roads have been con-
structed, and are now being
gravelled before the wet season,
which will impede work of every
nature, begins in about a month’s
time. Plant on the site includes
a fleet of heavy trucks and land-
rovers, two bulldozers, a power-
shovel, three diamond-drills and
a wagon-drill—two more wagon-
drills are on order.
Parts of the Sleisbeck area,
where instrument-surveys have
shown no signs of radioactivity
worth mentioning, have been
abandoned. However, five new
mineral claims have been pegged
at Koolpin Creek, near Sleis-
beck, but three of them are sub-
ject to challenge by Northern
Uranium Development on the
grounds that it applied for
authority to prospect the areas
in question.
Exploratory work has been
concentrated on No. 4 exposure,
where drilling results —three
holes have been put down —indi-
cate an ore-body with a width
of at least 25ft. and a depth of
100 ft. Length so far proved is
200 ft,; further drilling to east
and west will be necessary be-
fore the full length can be deter-
mined.
Ore values (radiometric
assay) range from £lO to £l5 per
ton at current Government-con-
tract prices. “It is realised,” the
board says, “that the cost of
cartage to Rum Jungle would
not be economical, and if there
is sufficient ore on the co.’s areas
a plant will have to be provided.”
Instrument-surveys have dis-
closed seven other localities giv-
ing radioactive indications simi-
lar to those at No. 4 exposure.
The board has decided to fully
investigate efach location in turn,
and since the drilling, shaft-sink-
ing and driving, etc., entailed in
proving any ore-body calls for
a lot of time, equipment and
labor, no reliable estimate of the
probable commercial worth of
the co.’s holdings can yet be
formed. One thing evident is
that values are patchy, owing to
leaching, which means that any-
thing but bulk sampling might
be very misleading.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
White arum-lilies arranged with deep-
green leaves, Iceland-poppies and pink
azaleas decorated the Town Hall recep-
tion-room when the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
F. Selleck, received wives of councillors
at a special party. Former Lady Mayoress
Mrs. R. H. Solly was guest-of-honor, and
on behalf of .the guests |VIrs. Selleck pre-
sented her with a sp'fay-brooch and
matching earrings of white and yellow
gold set with sapphires, diamonds and
pearls. Mrs. Selleck wore a suit of black-
and-gold heavy shot-silk, and her hat
was of emerald-green shiny straw. Mrs.
Solly’s choice was a midnight-blue velvet
coat and a sequin-scattered, midnight-
blue velvet toque.
Lady Beaurepaire, who was convenor
of the committee organising the party
and presentation, highlighted her deep
delphinium-blue corded wool suit with a
garnet-red velvet cloche. Among the
guests were Mrs. H. Cantwell, Mrs.
Maurice Nathan, Mrs. A. Rook, Mrs.
Douglas Cox, Mrs. George Hume, Mrs.
A. E. Carlyle, Mrs. Alex Finlay and Mrs.
J. W. Ferguson, who leaves in December
for a holiday overseas.
☆ ☆ ☆
Race Week gaiety will include the
Navy Ball, which, as usual, will be held
on Oaks Night, November 4, at the
Royale Ballroom. The Governor and
Lady Brooks will attend, and it is
expected that Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowl-
ing, who will succeed Vice-Admiral Sir
John' Collins as First Naval Member,
will also be present with Mrs. Dowling.
Those who wish to book tables for this,
one of the year’s most popular func-,
tlons, may do so by ringing one of the
ticket-secretaries: Mrs. Edward Campbell
(Win. 6774), Mrs. Gordon Darling
(BJ4356) or Mrs. Peter Cox (BJ5539).
☆ ☆ ☆
Hundreds of tulips, from white to
deepest red, with masses of rhododen-
drons, arum-lilies and lilac, were used to
decorate the studio at Broadcast House
when members of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra were entertained at a late-
afternoon party. Hosts were the presi-
dent (Mr. K. A. Halliday) and members
of the Symphony Orchestra
Subscribers’ Committee. The guests-of-
honor included the conductor of the
orchestra, Mr. Eugene Goossens, the
associate conductor, Mr. Joseph Post, and
guest-artist Natasha Litvin.
Among those at the party were the
Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. Selleck), Lady
Heinze, the manager for Victoria of the
A.B.C., Ewart Chappie, and Mrs.
Chappie. Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers,
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Mr. and Mrs. J.
Chaldjian, Or. and Mrs. Douglas Cox,
Mrs. A. Shmith, Vera Bradford and
Nancy Weir.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Visbord, of
Toorak, will give a party early next
month to celebrate the engagement of
their daughter Carole Lynette and Ray-
mond, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Hans
Vider, of Bellevue Hill, Sydney. Carole,
an old pupil of St. Catherine’s, is wearing
a solitaire diamond-ring set with
bagnettes,
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Elsbeth Dougall, of Horsham,
winner of the 1953 Scantlebury Brown
Scholarship, has returned home. Dr.
Dougall, who specialises in children’s
diseases and child-welfare, did a post-
graduate course at Great Ormond-street
Hospital, London, and studied industrial
diseases at Sheffield. With another Mel-
bourne girl, Claire Purcell, she travelled
Scandinavia, Germany and Italy doing
surveys of child-welfare work. After a
short visit to her parents, Mr. and Mrs,
C. W. Dougall, of Horsham, Dr. Dougall
intends to specialise in pediatrics and
work part-time with the Maternal and
Child Health Department.
☆ * *
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Ebstein returned
from a world tour in time for the ninth
anniversary party of Claridge’s, which
was gay with candle-lit tables and bowls
of roses from Mrs. Ebstein’s garden. With
her husband she entertained Mr. and Mrs.
Race Godfrey, and Mr. and Mrs. James
Newman in an attractive gown of silver-
and-white brocade and a petal-pink
organdie stole. Mrs. Godfrey’s frock was
azure-blue; Mrs. Newman’s strapless
black frock had pearl-centred crystal
plastrons patterned over the bodice.
Noted also were the Frank Watts, Mrs.
Robert Lane, the Bob Lanes, and the C.
F. Lanes, and Mrs. I. Blair, whose much-
admired frock of grey organdie was woven
with a black ostrich-feather design and
had a wide black cummerbund.
This photo of Lady Disney was taken
at a dance she gave in her Auburn home
for her niece Denise Rawlings. Lady
Disney, who was Melbourne’s Lady
Mayoress for three years, did much good
work as patroness of the Sutherland
Homes for Children Auxiliary. She is
noted for her tasteful dressing and
charming personality.
Although perfect weather gave women
an opportunity to display summer
fashions at the Caulfield Cup meeting,
most of them preferred lightweight suits.
But hats were gay, and ranged from the
wide-brimmed picture-hat to the tiny cap
of velvet leaves. There were many full-
skirted frocks seen. There is no in-
between style in skirts ; they must either
be very full or pencil-slim to be fashion-
able.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, entertained a large
party for luncheon. She chose a suit of
navy-and-white finely striped silk, with
the skirt featuring graceful side-drapery.
One of her guests was Lady Herring,
whose husband, Sir Edmund Herring,
deputised for the Governor and pre-
sented the Cup. She wore a coat of
dove-grey corded silk with a large
sapphire-blue baku hat swathed with
matching velvet. Another guest was
Mrs. L. R. Buxton, whose “clutch” coat
of dark-grey, orange-patterned pure silk
was worn with a coolie-shaped grey
shiny-straw hat.
Mrs. Harold Holt wore with her slim-
skirted black-and-gold suit a tobacco-
brown platter-hat. Mrs. Everard Baillieu
added a tiny matching straw hat to her
full-length tUrquoise-blue fitted coat.
Lady Clarke wore a loose-fitting navy
faille coat and a pale-pink chiffon-
trimmed planter’s hat in pink straw, Mrs.
David Goodenay’s black-and-white silk-
tweed suit was worn with a hat of deep-
wine pleated satin. The Premier’s wife,
Mrs. John Cain, wore a frock of slate-
blue shantung which had a pleated hem-
line. Mrs, Harry Way, wife of the
V.A.T.C. secretary, chose a grey-and-
white-silk frock and a black straw hat.
Mrs. Richard Linton’s suit was smoky
blue, her pillbox hat white. Mrs. Dick
Noone’s sage-green wool-suit was short-
sleeved ; her small platter-hat was white.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gwendolyn Lesley, only daughter of
the late Lieut.-General Sir Stanley and
Lady Savage, was married quietly at St.
Paul’s Cathedral, the Archbishop of
Melbourne, Dr. J J. Booth, officiating.
The bride, who was attended by Mrs.
Jim Menzies in watermelon-pink chiffon,
wore a gown of delphinium-blue chiffon
which had a draped bodice and full
skirt, and a small matching hat. Bride-
groom is Cecil, second son of Mrs. E.
Waters, of Richmond, and the late Mr.
Gordon Waters. Mr. John Bush was best
man. Reception was held at the bride’s
home at Kew.
sruNEr
Three-hundred members of the Clan
Macleod attended the reception in honor
of their chieftain, Dame Flora Macleod,
at the Royal Blind Institution, and over
1000 members and friends went to the
garden-party on Saturday at St. Andrew’s
College, Sydney University. Dame
Flora, at 76 years of age, is bright-eyed
and alert with a calm dignity and poise
in keeping with her position. At the
reception she received a presentation
porridge-set and ladle set with an opal,
and at the garden-party a special dance
composed in her honor was performed by
Jean London dancers.
The conference of the Joint Empire
Societies held a reception in her honor
on Monday. The Clan dinner at the Aus-
tralia Hotel was held on Tuesday and
today, Wednesday, Dame Flora leaves
Sydney to visit the Snowy River project
and, later, Canberra, where she will
lunch at Yarralumla with Sir William
and Lady Slim, will meet Mr. Menzies
at Parliament House, lunch with Dame
Pattie Menzies at the Prime Minister’s
Lodge, and attend a dinner at which the
Hon. Archie Cameron will preside.
Moira Byrne, who is the eldest daughter
of Colonel and Mrs. L. J. Byrne of Lind-
field, will marry Alan Woodbridge, son
of Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Woodbridge, of
Killara, on November 27, at the Church
of the Holy Family, Lind field. This will
be the second wedding in the Byrne
family during the month, for the eldest
son, Jim, is to be married on November
13 to Pauline Hoskins, well-known New
Zealand journalist, in Wellington, N.Z.
Moira’s youngest sister Deirdre, who is to
be her bridesmaid with her second sister
Aylene, will travel to New Zealand for
her brother’s wedding, where she will also
be bridesmaid. Moira’s photo is by Hugh
Spencer.
How bright the exhibition of the Con-
temporary Art Society is, this year as
much as ever! The walls of the Educa-
tion Department Gallery fairly vibrate
with color and one’s spirits leap several
degrees as soon as one goes in. They
gradually sink, however, as the subjects
of the pictures reveal themselves, and
the despairing lovers, the cretin children,
the bewildered abstracts persuade one
that the world is such a very sad place.
Well, perhaps that’s life.
Madame Silvio Daneo opened the
exhibition with a speech that was a
model of lucidity, and the president,
Mr. H. Weaver Hawkins, was equally
easy to understand. Would not
something more in the manner of
Gertrude Stein or James Joyce have
been more suitable for a show of
contemporary art, something to set the
listeners wondering just what had been
meant by the speeches? Straightforward-
ness, one would think, should be left to
the Royal Art Society. Departing from
current usage, the C.A.S. did not serve
any sherry at its opening. Perhaps it
thought the pictures would be intoxi-
cating enough of themselves, or perhaps
it thought that good bush needs no wine.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wine Week brought to Sydney many
charming people associated with the
wine-industry, mostly from South Aus-
tralia, but also from Victoria, Western
Australia and Queensland. Host and
hostess for a week of conference and
social activity were president Mr. W. H.
Davies and Mrs. Davies. The programme
for the ladies included a reception at the
Wine Pavilion at the Royal Agricultural
Showground, a banquet at Usher’s Hotel,
a dinner-dance on the Showboat which
was a. real moonlight cruise, a “behind
the scenes” tour of a leading city store,
a luncheon at the cellars of Lindeman
Limited, and a tour of Minchinbury
with a delightful luncheon to conclude
the conference.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Evatt was to have opened the
exhibition of Italian Books at the Mit-
chell Library arranged by the Dante
Alighieri Society, but was too busy
otherwires, so Tom Mutch did the
honors, very capably at just one
hour’s notice. The Italian Minister, Dr.
Silvio Daneo, gave some interesting
figures relating to book-production in
Italy at present, including the fact that
poetry occupies third place in popular
favor in Italy; fiction is first, and
economic, political and social-studies
second. The president of the Dante
Alighieri, Professor E. G. Waterhouse,
was unfortunately absent owing to ill-
ness, and guests were received by the
vice-president, Signor Quaglia.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some very pretty dresses were worn at
the Independent Theatre Ball held at
Prince’s during the week. One noticed
Mrs. Erik Langker’s elegant white organza
threaded with silver. Miss Doris Fitton’s
short white silk-jersey with jet-sprinkled
bodice, Mrs. Waiter Bunning’s dramatic
black taffeta, its slimness swept back to
a bustle-bow, Mrs. Leon Henry’s grey
tulle ballerina, and Mrs. I. A. Listwan’s
striking dress of tulle frills alternating
black over white and white over black,
and each edged with medallions of white
guipure lace. Many of the cast of the
Independent’s present production “The
Heiress” were present, including Verity
Marina in pale - lemon georgette and
Helene Jacoby in gunmetal-grey
shantung.
☆☆ ~ ☆
Not the least of the attractions of the
rose-and-flower-decorations show at
David Jones’ Gallery held in aid of the
Bush Book Club were the beautiful vases
and - containers used for the different
exhibits. Mrs. Wilfred Arlom used
pewter, and keyed the foliage of her
wild-roses to it most skilfully; Mrs.
Victor Maxwell’s burnished-copper with
its massed red, pink and wine-colored
roses was brilliant in effect. Mrs. Joel
Simons used alabaster for an arrangement
of golden-toned “everlastings,” “Con-
sidering the Flat Dweller.” Mrs. Peter
Hull-Smith’s table of specimen roses was
set off by its ebony vases in different
shapes, and Miss D. Brownhill’s soft-
pink Countess Bertha roses in the cream-
and-pink Worcester-shell were exquisitely
old-world in effect, while much attention
was caught by Mrs. B. B. Riley’s
collection of miniatures in tiny vases of
many types,
☆ ☆ ☆
Anyone wishing to do a good deed
might volunteer to sell buttons on Friday,
October 29, on behalf of the Poliomyelitis
Society. The society maintains Cherry-
wood, the after-care hospital at Turra-
murra, and Elamang, the country
hostel, and fellowship headquarters at
Kirribilli, as well as helping polio-
sufferers by supplying them with equip-
ment to enable them to take their places
in society. The button-day is their main
source of income, and many more button-
sellers are needed. The telephone-number
to ring is X 85895.
☆ ☆ ☆
Appropriate prizes are being offered
at the Elizabethan Ball, in aid of the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust and being
held at the Trocadero on October 26;
For the best period-headdress, a bottle
of French perfume and an antique
figurine; for the best-decorated table,
preferably with a theatrical motif, a
lovely silver salver.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gladys Moncrieff and Doris Fitton
will be guests-of-honor at performances
of the Mosman Musical Society’s new
production “A Southern Maid which
begins next Friday for a season of
seven nights. This is a revival °f
Franser-Simpson’s musical drama wmcn
the society first played, very successfully,
in 1929.


One of the
best hands
Whs s3s±&h\
about the
place
A “Dangar-Gem” equipped as a two unit
milker will milk 20 or more cows an hour
with ease.
For segregating part of your herd, for stud
cattle or for small herds you can have all
the advantages of machine milking without
costly installation by using
DANGAR-GEM
Use it anywhere on the farm, in the milking
sheds, in a bail or even in the paddock and
save time, money and drudgery.
Full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
P.O. Box 509 Phone : BU 5095
Branches; Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JACK LAWRENCE CLAYTON late
of Lifhgow.—TAKE NOTICE that BERYL
ROSIE CLAYTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2115 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 11th February
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSIEURS E. R.
TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, of 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
By Appointment
. to H. M. King
frederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H- M.
Queen of lha
Nethertand**
cun «.<*
? »•: j
NH
m
CHERRY q
t-ICCIIRfi "cOpmyiS
Cherry
I Heering
Since ISIS Denmark's
liqueur delight)
for your after
dinner, enjoyment
OMf*,
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORN DALE PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Vic. Symphony Orchestra
Walter Susskind and the
visiting Victorian Symphony
Orchestra have been giving
Sydney some attractive works,
played with precision and, in
parts, some fire.
Among them: The Fantastic
Symphony, that brilliantly
devised piece of high-voltage
romanticism in which Berlioz —
“mad Hector of the flaming
locks” —conjured up hobgoblins
and devils to assist his courtship
of a coy Irish actress; Tom-
masini’s adroit arrangement of
the Scarlatti piano-pieces which
comprise the “Good-humored
Ladies” rhythm - charged
melodies amiably handled by
the orchestra; Rossini’s “Thiev-
ing Magpie” Overture, which
fell rather short of the desired
coruscation; and Vaughan
Williams’s London Symphony,
which, more than any of his
major works, demonstrates so
fully his meticulous craftsman-
ship and lucid style.
Of less interest were Bartok’s
Third Piano Concerto, the solo
part of which was hammered out
by Bela Siki —Bartok has little
to say here, and takes a long and
noisy time to say it —and the four
sea-interludes from Benjamin
Britten’s “Peter Grimes” —poor
material throughout.
<£*
“Pommy”
Sydney Royal’s current offer-
ing, a “comedy-drama” by W. P.
Lipscomb and John Watson, is
set on an outback sheep-station
in south-west Queensland. The
owner, a pretty young blonde,
has spent all her life on the
property, yet doesn’t know that
the manager is running the place
into the ground with the inten-
tion of buying it from her for
a song ; into this set-up drifts
the Pommy, at first willing to be
in it with the manager, and then,
with a change of heart, foiling
his rascally machinations in the
interests of his better self, or
true love, or what-you-will.
The piece is peopled with
half a dozen or more caricatures,
and it is rather difficult to take
the drama part of it seriously
except, perhaps, as a plot for
musicomedy; its comedy is
better, if rough, and the opening-
night audience co-operated good-
naturedly with Messrs. Lips-
comb and Watson by giving
some evidence of enjoying the
proceedings immensely.
William Hodge, who also
directs the play, gives most life
to the doings as a plausible Irish
scallywag, supported in the
main by Deryck Barnes as the
Pommy, Maree Marsden as the
station - owner and Keneth
Thornett and Brian James.
♦> ♦>
“All My Sons”
This, by Arthur Miller, and
currently presented by Brisbane
Repertory, does not take the
audience by the throat as does
Miller’s “Death of a Salesman,”
but it is gripping enough. Here,
too, the sins of a father are
judged by his sons, one living
and the other kept alive in spirit
by a neurotic mother.
Miller gives us an American
industrialist who has shipped
faulty spare-parts to bomber
bases during the war managing
to throw the blame on to a
business partner. But the part-
ner has a son who remembers,
and the hard shell of the indus-
trialist’s conscience is cracked by
the constant suspicion and
accusation which accumulate as
the play develops.
The most interesting perform-
ance came from Arthur Hall as
the son who could not reconcile
his post-war idealism with the
cold and practical atmosphere
of his father’s business. As the
industrialist, Franklyn Evans
used a nervous, crackling laugh
which became all the more
effective as he changed from the
casual wisecracker of the first
act to the conscience-ridden
wreck of the final scenes.
D. J. M.
Thea Rowe
Thea Rowe gave programmes
of request items for her extended
season at Sydney’s Metropolitan
Theatre which of course de-
lighted her audience, although it
meant that the bill of fare was
slightly less well balanced than
usual —a bit too much soufflee in
the form of Irish comic songs,
and not enough of the lovely sad
old English and Scottish ballads
such as “Blow the Wind South-
erly.”
One Scots ballad new to this
writer was “A Fairy Lullaby,”
in which a distraught young
woman seeks the young child she
has lost on a mountainside.
After she has decided that fairies
stole the infant there is some
magnificent miming as she seeks
her footing, stumbling over
rocks in the mist. The words
are sung to a haunting, lovely
tune.
Breffni Hosking sang a group
of songs including one, arranged
by accompanist Joyce West,
which was collected recently in
Queensland. It is an Irish emi-
grant song, “As I Went Down
North-street,” and hearing it
made one wish, not for the first
time, that Miss Rowe would in-
clude in her programmes some
of the Australian folksongs
which are now being so widely
collected.
N. K.
Artbursts
Norman Lindsay Exhibits
An exhibition of recent works
by Norman Lindsay at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, conjured
up memories for the present
commentator of 50 years ago,
when he was a pupil of Julian
Ashton, in whose studio Lindsay,
an occasional visitor, was already
a legend.
That was also the year of the
great secession when a new
society was formed to counter
the alleged reactionariness of the
Royals. The highlight of its
first exhibition, in an extem-
porised gallery in George-street,
was to be the Casanova illustra-
tions of Norman Lindsay,
rumors about which had set all
the ateliers of Sydney buzzing.
Fashions change, and the
excitement engendered by
Lindsay’s subject-matter has sub-
sided since those days. What
remains constant is his skill as an
etcher, a watercolorist and a
painter in oils. It was fully
developed in his work at the
secessionist exhibition, though
now it has become more facile.
He is a superb illustrator ; as a
handler of non-political mass
movements he is difficult to
equal; he has extraordinary skill
with the etching needle; and it
is only in his oils that he seems
occasionally to fall below his
own standard as a craftsman.
F.S.
❖ ♦>
Art from the Country
Sponsored by the Arts Coun-
cil Anthony Hordern’s gallery is
showing a large exhibition of
oils, watercolors and sculpture,
all the work of N.S.W. practi-
tioners living outside the metro-
politan area.
- It is quite a mixed bag with,
at one end of the scale, profes-
sional painters whose work is
fairly familiar to city audiences
and, at the other, people who
would appear to paint solely as
a hobby, and for pleasure. It is
the work of these genuine
“primitives” which give the show
its overall impression of liveli-
ness and sincere good-humor.
There is something refreshing to
the beholder in viewing work
by untrained people who don’t
make pretentious claims that
their deficiencies are a virtue.
Matilda Lister of Bathurst is a
case in point: “Hill End Festi-
val” and “Finding the Nugget”
are crowded narrative scenes in
gay and attractive color which,
if they do recall Sydney Nolan,
and even Gill, probably do so by
accident.
Several New Australian
artists are represented: many of
them are not yet attempting Aus-
tralian landscape but showing
either European scenes and
figures or flower-pieces. One
does remember a vigorous,
roughly painted oil by Ennio
Lucantonia of Griffith which
is probably an Australian
“Springtime Scene” rioting with
fruit-blossoms and gaudy but
controlled color.
A majority of the paintings
are landscapes —nearly all with
the verve noted before, but not,
interestingly enough, with any
more feeling for the soil than is
to be found in the work of sin-
cere artists from the metropolis.
On a small scale J. Lindsay has
two Dubbo landscapes of some
charm ; Leonard Long’s “Eroded
Banks” makes skilful use of
light in the traditional (impres-
sionist) style ; Elizabeth Mac-
kay’s “Autumn Poplars” is a
most effective oil.
Among the watercolors three
seascapes are noteworthy: C. N.
Caldwell’s “Shellharbor,” well
contrived though marred by un-
pleasant color; Alan McKen-
zie’s “Wellington Rock, Nam-
bucca Heads” ; and Jean Allen
Jones’s “Boat Harbor, Wollon-
gong-” . ,
Mollie Hanlon’s “Clair de
Lune” is an interesting grouping
of cactus-plants and flowers in
moonlight —the eerie coloring
and light enhancing the strange
and delicately evil shapes of the
plants; R. Broadley’s “Fire-
break” is one of the few success-
ful depictions of a bushfire
(albeit on a very small scale) that
one can remember.
Sculpture includes two statu-
ettes by Noel Mebberson: “Dry-
ing Hair,” a seated female with
long hair falling forward mak-
ing curtains that obscure the
face, is a graceful little work in
polished stone ; and “Tjurunga,”
an amusing aboriginal piece, has
some force —also small, it would
seem to owe something to Orien-
tal ivory carvings. Rix Wright
has a tour de force in a life-size
bronze, “Shearer.”
N. K.
Talkies
“Are We All Murderers?”
This thoughtful and moving
French drama advances some
arresting argument on the
futility of capital punishment,
the protagonists being four men
in the condemned cell of a
French prison. The case of one
of them —a young man, illiterate,
with a wretched home-back-
ground, who was taught to kill
in the Resistance and, knowing
nothing else, carried it into
civilian life —forms the chief
thread of the story. A deep
human pity informs the film,
yet no false note of sentimentality
is struck anywhere. Acting and
the direction are near-perfect. At
Sydney Savoy.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Current Sydney Releases: —
“Human Desire” (Victory):
Murder is the secondary theme
in this domestic drama directed
by Fritz Lang, who puts the
greater emphasis on character-
drawing ; a young, unmoral
wife, hating her ageing husband,
and the inherently decent hus-
band, gradually going to pieces
after jealousy leads him to
violence. Gloria Graham and
Broderick Crawford handle the
explosives and Glenn Ford is
the young man drawn into the
triangle.
• • • •
“Garden of Evil” (Plaza): It
wouldn’t take a Sherlock Holmes
to deduce, quarter-way through
this outdoor-action opus, that
Gary Cooper and Susan Hay-
ward will be the sole survivors
of the party of six which is rescu-
ing the lady’s injured mining-
engineer-husband in hostile
Indian country in Mexico. But
the dialogue is above average,
there is plenty of excitement and
action, and Gary Cooper, Rich-
ard Widmark and Cameron
Mitchell are old practised
hands at this sort of thing.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
CHAPTER XI
t f 8 T’S him again; the
I foreigner,” Rhoda ex-
I claimed, bulging-in the
flyproof-wire with her
forehead to get a better look.
“Halfway up the avenue now.”
Alec, too sophisticated to
rush like his sister to the win-
dows as soon as the dogs started
to bark, now decided he was jus-
tified in having a look. He was
the one most concerned.
“It’s him, all right,” he said
morosely. “Must have decided
that Father isn’t too dangerous
after all. Trying to get his
blasted money again. I’ll bet.
What in hell am I going to do
with him?”
The various members of the
family, a moment ago each pur-
suing separate advantages in
their various ways, suddenly
coalesced into a tight fighting-
unit.
“We’ll all stand behind you,”
his mother assured him.
His sister reverted to the his-
toric embattled female, eager to
heat up the oil for pouring on
to the attackers at the foot of
the ramparts.
“We’ll help you fight him.”
“Your father ought to help
you deal with him. It’s not fair,
after all you’ve been through,”
his mother said, referring either
to Alec’s four years in the Army,
or the car accident which was
the cause of the trouble, or both.
And the fact that she spoke thus
obliquely to her husband was be-
cause he was scowling fiercely as
he always did when any member
of the family looked like losing
money.
“Ought to take a gun to him,”
Kraftmann said.
“Why doesn’t he leave it to
the lawyers?” Mrs. Kraftmann
now shrank from the possibili-
ties implicit in her husband’s
assistance.
“Either he knows he hasn’t
got a case,” Alec said, “or he’s
speaking the truth when he says
that he’s too honest to trust
lawyers.”
“Confound it all,” the father
said angrily, “he’s a scoundrel.
He’s after your money! What
else could he be?”
But by that time there was a
knocking at the front door; the
formal door used only for social
occasions and never by ac-
quaintances dropping in to see
some member of the family. It
made Alec feel all the worse to
go tramping up the long hall
with the eyes of the family on
his back until he passed through
the bead curtain which separated
the “front rooms” from the rest
of the house.
The man on the veranda
smiled at him, amiably if a
trifle uneasily. He had taken
off a jaunty Tyrolean hat, its
bright band stuck with spotted
feathers, and was wiping his fat,
perspiring face with a silk
handkerchief of such a brilliant
pattern and such gossamer tex-
ture that it seemed a shame to
use it for that purpose.
He was wearing a canary-
yellow silk shirt, open at the
collar, and a scarf as bright and
exquisite as his handkerchief,
round his neck. He had brown
corduroy-velvet trousers and
shoes with sponge-rubber soles
an inch thick. He offered his
hand to Alec, looking beseech-
ingly into his face ; changed his
mind and withdrew it, then
offered it again. Alec put him
out of his uncertainty; he pre-
ferred to do a friendly act than
an unfriendly one any day.
“I come with a new proposi-
tion,” said Stefanik, speaking
his fairly good English in a
careful, deliberate way; mean-
while averting his head either to
assist his concentration or be-
cause of a form of shyness. “We
both of us do not want to waste
all of our money on lawyers.
Therefore I say: for my loss of
twenty original Old Master oil-
paintings, for that I say—l say
five thousand pounds.”
He turned to look Alec
straight in the face, his own
slightly hopeful and placatory;
slightly pitiful. Alec was relieved
only to the extent that the previ-
ous claim had been three thous-
and pounds more.
On the one hand he was
afflicted with guilt for having
done nothing about the matter
since Stefanik’s last visit with
his volatile associate. Dr.
Magyk; on the other he could
not face the prospect of paying
him.
Not that he was entirely dis-
honest. Had the caravan con-
tained some familiar objects of
trade with a universally recog-
nised value, such as typewriters,
poker-machines, bottled whisky
or gramophone - records, he
would have paid as much as he
could and make the best of it.
But all that was Australian in
him rose up and revolted at the
prospect of paying out any large
sum for pieces of canvas in
wooden frames that had had the
paint knocked off them or been
torn to pieces; the original
value of which he had no pos-
sible means of determining.
“Even if I agreed to pay that
much,” he said, feeling de-
cidedly uncomfortable about it,
“I just haven’t got that much
money.”
The Czech’s mobile eyebrows
shot to the centre of his fore-
head in astonished disbelief.
“But you have the sheep ; you
have the land so wide” —his
hands made gestures to indicate
that Alec must own the equal of
half of Czechoslovakia. “It is
impossible that you don’t have
the money.”
“All the property is tied up
in a company controlled by my
father,” Alec explained. “He’d
never agree to me selling-out
my part, and I couldn’t raise
a large sum of money any other
way.”
But Stefanik was barely listen-
ing to the excuses, his mind
running on another course.
“At all the big sheepfarms
where I sell my Old Masters,
before I lose my caravan,” he
said, with an affecting break in
his voice over the last passage,
“they had so much money.
Sometimes they gave me cheques
written out for steel fence-posts ;
hundreds and thousands of steel
fence-posts. I think” —and here
he grinned, making it difficult
for Alec to continue thinking of
him as an enemy—“l sell more
steel fence-posts last year than
the 8.H.P.”
He cocked his head on one
side and regarded Alec specu-
latively.
“You like to write me a
cheque for steel fence-posts?
Then you save two thousand,
maybe three thousand income
tax?”
Alec had to jerk his attention
back quickly to Stefanik to deny
any inclination towards such dis-
honesty: for while Stefanik had
been speaking Alec had been
astonished to see his father sud-
denly appear behind a privet-,
hedge in the front garden and
make commanding but com-
pletely incomprehensible signals
to him.
“Another thing I see at the
big sheep-farms,” Stefanik went
on, though he seemed a bit un-
settled now, sensing that some-
thing was going on behind his
back ; “some do not wish to pay
me with cheques for my Old
Masters, but with bank-notes
which I think must come from
the blackmarket, for I see a
strange thing at several places,
that before they give me that
money I see them slip out the
back of the house among the
sheds where I think they have
the money hid. Now I say, you
like to pay me with bank-notes,
I will co-operate with you
happily and never say a word to
anyone where I get all that
money from, heh?”
Alec turned back barely in
time to meet the speculative look
turned on him. His father had
been making more and wilder
signals to him, reaching the peak
of his vehemence at the time
when the Czech was talking
ahput the graziers who kept
large sums of money hidden in
their sheds.
It seemed to Alec that his
father wanted him to take Stefa-
nik down among their sheds;
though it was hard to believe
that he was going to indicate
where a large treasure was hid-
den, and still harder to under-
stand why he should take this
odd manner of directing him to
it. But Alec had been accus-
tomed to doing what his father
commanded since childhood, so
he said to Stefanik:
“Come on. We’ll have a look
among the sheds.”
The Czech’s face lit up with
delight, as only a volatile Euro-
pean’s can.
“I thank you. I thank you.
I thank you,” he said.
And he stared hopefully from
one of Kraftmann’s large and
sturdily built buildings to
another, trying to estimate which
would contain the largest hoard
of money. Meanwhile Kraft-
mann senior trailed them, keep-
ing out of sight except to reveal
himself occasionally to Alec,
directing him to left or right.
“In here; this would be a
good place,” Stefanik said of
the woolshed, then of the barn,
and then of the implement-shed.
He didn’t see so much promise
in the oat-silo, a tall cylindri-
cal structure made of heavy-
gauge sheet-steel supported by
angle-iron, and having a narrow
doorway for withdrawing the
oats, which were usually stored
therein in bulk. Yet it was to
the oat-silo that Kraftmann
directed them.
Stefanik hesitated at the door-
way, one hand on each side
while he looked in. Inside it
was dim, with a musty smell
remaining from the recently
removed grain; the beam of
sunlight coming in through the
door was so heavily spangled
with gleaming specks of dust as
to make anyone hesitate about
entering.
From the corner of an im-
mense haystack Kraftmann
made violent signs to his son
to seize the opportunity to push
Stefanik in,
Alec, completely puzzled, used
a more polite alternative, going
in first himself and pretending
to search hopefully under a pile
of empty oat-bags. He turned
his head and Stefanik was be-
side him, eagerly helping him
to look.
The next moment they could
see no more. The door had been
shut quietly and someone was
hurriedly slamming home the
heavy bolts.
Alec rushed across in the
gloom and beat against the door.
He knew very well that his
father had done it for some
crude if well-intentioned pur-
pose, but he had no relish for
being shut in the silo with an
antagonist who could readily
suspect him of having acted as
a decoy. He shouted wildly and
hammered on the door with his
fists to impress Stefanik.
“The wind must have blown
it shut,” he said.
Stefanik did not reply, and
since his face was invisible, Alec
had no means of determining
whether he believed it or not.
For a very long time Alec con-
fined to shout, banging on the
walls at intervals, until his
throat ached and his fists were
sore.
The worst of it was that Stefa-
nik still would not say a word.
At first Alec had felt too
ashamed to address him directly,
but left plenty of openings in
the loud comments he made
about the foulness of being shut
in such a place. He realised
that there were many things the
man cbuld * be thinking about,
shut in darkness with a stranger
in a strange and not overfriendly
country.
He could be badly frightened ;
on the other hand, he could be
fiercely annoyed; he could be
just completely mystified; he
could be plotting cunningly to
let his opponent exhaust himself
with shouting and hammering,
then to throttle him at his ease.
All this made it the more im-
perative, and at the same time
more difficult, to think up a
good opening remark for a con-
versation.
“Well, it looks as if we can’t
ge f out of here,” he tried.
But after waiting vainly for
an answer, he admitted to him-
self that there really wasn’t much
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments: —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. —Town accountant ;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
(“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Breyley has prewailed upon
Rhoda, who thinks he wants to
marry her, to bring the account-
books of her father’s family-
company to his lodgings. Brey-
ley then tells Kraftmann that he
has been withholding the divi-
dends of the rest of the family,
and threatens him with disclo-
sure. Kraftmann for a second
time orders Breyley out of the
house. Meanwhile, Alec, though
siding with his father, regrets the
£BOOO withheld from him, a
sum which would just pay the
claim of the art-dealer Stefanik
for “Old Masters” damaged in
a car collision for which Alec
was to blame. *


that could be said in reply to
such a fatuous remark.
He considered saying “It’s
dark in here,” or “The air is
musty,” or “I wish we had a
bar of iron to force the door,
but he decided that, if Stefanik
was as annoyed as he might justi-
fiably be, it would be only
adding fuel to his fire. At last
he asked a question just as silly
as the others he had thought of,
but risked it because he so badly
wanted to know the answer.
“Can you see the time by
your watch?”
After a brief pause there
came an acidly articulated reply:
“It is just as dark where I am
as where you are.”
Alec was so pleased to have
an answer that he started to
chatter foolishly.
“We could make a couple of
couches for ourselves out of
those empty bags.”
And because he felt that any
kind of activity would be a
relief, he immediately started to
do it. tt
“You are making a big dust,
Stefanik complained.
But presently he submitted to
being led to his couch, where
he sat, as far as Alec could tell,
stiffly and offendedly. Alec lay
down on his.
“This is better,” he said. “I
could spend a few hours like
this if it came to the worst.”
“It has already come to the
worst,” the Czech said bitterly.
“Well, I don’t know,” Alec
tried to be cheerful. “Many a
time when I was in the Army I
would have thought that this
was heavenly.”
“No, you are wrong. You
forget. Nothing could be worse.
It is even worse than Belsen, and
don’t contradict me, because I
was there.”
“Oh, but it couldn’t be,” Alec
nevertheless did contradict him.
“You’re not being tortured. And
you don’t live in fear of being
taken out any minute and shot.”
“I am being tortured,” Stefa-
nik declared, sneezing violently,
but not indicating how otherwise
he was suffering. “It would be
a pleasure to be taken out and
shot.”
“Oh, no! ” Alec was alarmed.
He had heard of a kind of Con-
tinental melancholy which could
culminate in suicide. “Someone
will let us out presently and then
we’ll be safe and happy in free,
democratic Australia.”
Stefanik gave a dreadfully
disillusioned laugh.
“Where the big landholders
have private dungeons like the
feudal lords had in Bohemia five
hundred years ago.”
Alec laughed and tried to
make it carefree.
“You’ve got quite the wrong
idea. We were shut in here by
accident, and soon someone will
come looking for us and let us
out. You can’t think of it as
remotely resembling Belsen.”
“In Belsen I enjoyed myself,”
Stefanik said most unexpectedly.
“I used to have arguments about
contemporary German music
with one of the guards. Then
whenever I felt bored I shouted
out to him ‘Schdnberg is no
musician.’ Then he’d rush into
my cell and beat me over the
head. Compared with this, it
was fun; I never had a dull
moment.”
Alec was still trying to cope
with this extraordinary state-
ment when he was mightily en-
couraged by sounds of move-
ment outside the silo.
“We’re found! We’re going
to be let out!” he exclaimed,
and immediately he began to
shout.
“We’re shut in here. Hey, let
us out!”
But whoever it was had dif-
ferent ideas. Footsteps ascended
the outside iron ladder and a
hatch at the top was opened a
cautious few inches. A voice,
echoing so hollowly and sound-
ing so metallic that Alec scarcely
recognised it as his father’s,
said :
“Have you reached an agree-
ment yet?”
Neither of the inmates, hav-
ing been continuously so full of
their plight, saw the point.
“Agreement?” Alec echoed,
feeling foolish.
“Yes, agreement,” clanged the
iron-tongued monster. “You’re
both going to stay in there until
you reach a sensible agreement
about that accident-claim; and
it’s got to be one that I approve.”
The head disappeared for a
moment, then the voice beat
down on them again.
“I’m lowering a basket of
food. When you’ve finished that
you won’t get any more.”
Then the hatch-cover fell
down with a crash.
“There,” Stefanik said in
gloomy triumph; “it is your
father’s private dungeon.”
“Damn and blast him,” Alec
said, and a lot more, too. “At
least you must believe now that
I had nothing to do with getting
us shut in here.”
“What can I conclude?” the
Czech said with the utmost
reasonableness. “If the father
is insane, what is the son likely
to be?”
“He isn’t insane usually,”
Alec protested; then he had to
admit —“but he certainly is now
if he thinks that locking two
men up in the dark together will
make them come to an agree-
ment.”
“Belsen never thought of any-
thing so fiendish,” Stefanik
asserted. “Just think, if they'd
locked a Jew in with one of
Goebbels’s propaganda - writers
and had an S.S. man waiting
outside with a bayonet in case
the wrong man had won the
argument: what would the
world’s newspapers have said?”
“I’ll tell you what,” Alec sug-
gested, “we’ll defeat him; we’ll
just pass away the time in
pleasant conversation.”
The Czech hesitated a
moment, then said regretfully:
“Ah, but that is impossible.
You are only an Australian. You
understand nothing. You could
only talk about which horse is
going to win the Melbourne
Cup ; or whether Sydney’s beer
is better than Melbourne’s.”
Alec was greatly taken aback,
but he protested.
“I’ve been all over the world
with the Army. And I’m in-
terested in music, too, like your
Belsen guard. I have a big col-
lection of classical gramophone
records. I’ve even got a work
by Schonberg, though I admit
he’s a bit too advanced for me.”
“ ‘Transfigured Night,’ Stefa-
nik said, oppressed with bore-
dom, “the only thing of his
that’s known in Australia. Writ-
ten before he threw off the
shackles of tradition.”
For the moment Alec was re-
lieved that his discomfort could
not be seen. Regaining some of
his poise he said, in all humility:
“Would you be good enough
to talk to me and just let me
listen? Something about the cul-
ture of Europe. Or just tell me
about what sort of life you led
in your own country. What
work you did, for instance.”
Stefanik moved about on his
uncomfortable couch a while as
if undecided ; then, to Alec’s re-
lief, he said in a surprisingly
agreeable voice:
“Yes, I’ll tell you something
about my life in Prague and
Vienna. It was a very interest-
ing life. I was an artist, but not
the kind of artist you would be
thinking of. I was a specialist
employed by the big galleries ;
what they called a ‘restorer.’ My
work was to repaint parts of the
old masterpieces and keep them
presentable for the public.”
“I suppose,” Alec said, “it
must have been hard to make
the parts you painted look as
good as the originals?”
“As good?” Stefanik ex-
claimed in a voice that sounded
inexplicably offended. “As good!
That wasn’t my difficulty. My
trouble was in keeping my part
from looking too good for the
rest of the picture.”
“Now you’re having me on,”
Alec suggested, feeling the dis-
advantage of not being able to
see what sort of gleam there was
in Stefanik’S eyes.
“No! No! I speak the
truth.” There was no doubt he
was getting annoyed. “It was
easy. Think of the advantages
I had. Years of training in the
world’s best art schools ; all the
technical improvements of our
times; better paints; better
brushes; no worry about
whether I could sell the paint-
ing ; no hurry to finish before I
ran out of money.”
“What you’re telling me,”
Alec said deliberately, deter-
mined to get it straight, “is that
you could paint better than the
Old Masters.”
“Quite right,” Stefanik said,
without noticeable modesty.
“Sometimes I did what we called
“I’m lowering a basket of food,” said Kraftmann. "When you've
finished that you won’t get any more”
a ‘total restoration.’ That is, I
actually painted a new picture
on a new canvas. Of course the
gallery never admitted that it
was a new picture, but it was
better to do that than to lose a
famous piece that drew
from all over the world.”
“Still,” Alec persisted, “you
used the Old Master’s ideas, you
copied every stroke of his brush,
I expect.”
“Naturally,” Stefanik said,
with the sounds of a yawn.
“That was necessary for the sake
of the public. Otherwise, I
should have produced a much
better picture.”
He yawned again on the last
word,
“I think I shall catch some
sleep,” he said.
“1 suppose it’s night by now,”
Alec agreed, a bit too much out
of his depth to pursue the con-
versation further. “It feels
colder. I wish I’d thought of
asking him the time.”
But though they tried to settle
down, they did not have much
success. Oat-sacks proved to be
unsatisfactory as blankets, and
doubts arose about the suffici-
ency of the ventilation. They
spent long intervals talking, yet
the night never seemed to end.
First Stefanik told Alec some
more about his work.
“I should have explained to
you,” he said, without the earlier
pose of superiority, “that when
I said I could paint better pic-
tures, I was thinking of all the
time-worn faults like cracked
paint. You see, people have got
used to seeing the cracks in cer-
tain Old Masters —some of the
cracks are famous, like one at
Prague that breaks John the
Baptist’s nose off. At first I used
to dry my restorations very hard,
then bend them to put in the
well-known flaws, but later I
developed a high degree of skill;
I actually painted the cracks in.
“Yes, I was clever. That made
me famous throughout Europe.
That way I could be much more
accurate. You see, accuracy was
very important. The director of
the Vienna gallery had a joke
about that. ‘Stefanik,’ he used
to say to me, ‘it would never do
if you did a restoration of Venus
and her handmaidens..,..,”
The rest of the director’s re-
marks encouraged Alec to speak
of things that had surprised him
about Cairo; and, on the other
hand, the astonishingly high
caste of certain prostitutes in
French-controlled Syria.
Then Stefanik told him he
had a wife in Australia, still tied
to her two-year contract. In
her own country she had been a
prominent pianist, but now she
was doing a typewriting job in
Canberra.
“She writes to me very proud.
T have won second prize in a
typewriting eisteddfod,’ ”
Alec talked of his family;
and so they went on discussing
many and varied things, but
never a word about money and
compensation. When at last
greyness displaced the blackness
in the silo, they decided that
dawn had arriyed; they even
fancied that they could see each
other. They agreed that it
seemed more like sixteen days
than sixteen hours since they had
been shut in ; Alec even went
so far as to declare that he'felt
as if he had known Stefanik all
his life. Stefanik thought this
over in silence, then he said
with sudden interest:
“Do you know what I think?
I think that because I’ve been
shut in the dark with you for
so long I can now read your
thoughts.”
“Do you?” Alec said, rather
uneasily.
“Yes, now I know why you
don’t want to pay me compen-
sation for my Old Masters. It is
not because you are dishonest,
but it is because Australians do
not consider paintings to have
any real value. Now, if my
caravan had contained type-
writers, or poker-machines, or
bottles of whisky, or even classi-
cal gramophone-records you
would be quite willing to pay.
Am I not right?”
“Maybe you are, maybe you’re
not,” Alec admitted cautiously,
“but now that you mention it,
I believe that I can read your
mind, too. Do you know what I
think about those Old Masters of
yours? I think you painted
them yourself,”
“Oh! No! No!” Stefanik
protested, utterly outraged. “You
must not say things like that.
That is a thing which no one can
prove against me.”
“All the same,” Alec sug-
gested, without malice and
almost reluctantly, “I doubt if
you would like those squatters
who bought them to get sus-
picious and start investigations.”
Stefanik was silent for a long
time, then he gave a loud sigh
and made a queer blowing noise
with his lips.
“They were very good pic-
tures,” he said. “My conscience
does not trouble me.”
Alec chuckled delightedly.
“You are a remarkable fellow,
Stefanik,” he said. “I’d like to
see more of you. What say I
buy you a lot of new paints and
canvases, and give you free
board and lodging at our house
for as long as it takes you to
paint yourself a new stock of
Old Masters? Then couldn’t we
call it quits between us?”
“I agree,” Stefanik said, his
voice full of the grandest
philosophical tolerance.. “In
fact, I might even mend my ways
and start a new school of
original Australian painting,
without gum-trees, or aborigines,
or starving sheep, or elongated
inlanders, or imitation French
surrealism. But, no. I don’t
think I will. It would be too
terrible trying to establish a
reputation of my own when I
can so easily use reputations
that have been established for
hundreds of years.”
“The only thing I’m sorry
about,” Alec said, about an
hour later, when they heard
footsteps ascending the iron
ladder, “is that nothing will ever
convince my father that he didn’t
have the right idea of making
us come to an agreement.”
((Continued on page 27)


ď
\
Ha\/e you a
BIG farming
jobtocfo?
n
a
đ
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itself!
NT.27.32
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Disfribufors and
Dealers everywhere.
•he NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS FROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad fo discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
s m
IP
' mm
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Better than Australia, ho?
By Thelma Forshaw
I’M not much hand with a
pen, but that’s no reason
why I shouldn’t have my
say, is it? No big words,
anyway. That’s something.
I work in Hamelstein’s milk-
bar. Started casual, and then
gave up my factory job to do
full-time. The whole Hamel-
stein family runs the shop, and
each one makes out he’s the boss,
so you can imagine the bedlam.
But there’s only one boss,
and that’s Mumma, a fat, untidy
old party only up to my shoulder.
Pop comes next, a surly wretch
if ever there was one. Then the
boys.
Anton; about twenty he is,
and always pulling someone’s leg.
A reader, too, with his nose
always in the paper, but pulling
your leg so nice you don’t mind
doing his work. Just for fun
he’d teach me bits of German in
the quiet moments. If you could
hear the laughs! Some of their
words sound like our rude ones.
Then there’s Leon, who’s
twenty-three. He’s a terror for
work, and stuck like mad on
some bad-tempered Aussie girl.
At least, he’s always complain-
ing she is.
“She picks on me all the time,”
he says, and his big, soft eyes
look so sad Anton and I can’t
help laughing. But the family is
scared to death he’ll marry her,
not because she’s bad-tempered,
but because she hasn’t got a
bean. “Dowry” they call it
over there in Vienna, where they
come from. All girls getting
married have to have a dowry
or the boy’s mother won’t let him
get married.
I’d be an old maid for sure, in
my financial position, and I’ll bel
so would you other schnorrers—
that’s a word the Hamelsteins
call people with no money.
A T first, I couldn’t stand a bar
of Mumma, who calls all
women “Missus” —me, too, half
the time, though I’m only twenty-
eight and not married.
She’d be after you all day,
waddling in her flat boots:
“Missus! Missus! You must
me help.” There’d be the voice
from the kitchen, and I’d mutter:
“Here we go again.” She’d be
cooking the family lunch, which
they always ate at the end table
in the shop—one or other (mostly
Leon) jumping up to serve in
the middle of it. It was a wonder
to me they never all had ulcers.
But they seemed to thrive on
these jumping-jack meals of
theirs.
Anyway, I’d leave a customer
standing and run, and there’d
be dozens of pots and pans ready
for little me,
“Missus, please to wash,” and
off she’d trot with one big plate
of lovely-smelling stuff after
another. Sometimes palachinken
(it sounded like), big pancakes
stuffed with cream cheese and
raspberry jam. Or marellen-
nurdle (Lord, don’t ask me to
spell it!) that’s apricots
wrapped in a thin shell of dough
and boiled in their own juice.
She’d offer me some once in a
while, and stand over me, in spite
of being so small and stare
straight in my face while I ate.
“Yes, you like?” she’d say, and
even if it tasted strange to me,
I’d say: “Gee, it’s beaut,, Mrs.
Hamelstein.”
“Pewtiful?” she’d say, satis-
fied. “Yes, this is Vienna cook-
ing. Better than Australia, no?”
And handle a drunk! I never
saw her like. All our pubs need
one of her as chucker-out.
“Come, mister, you shicker,”
and she’d get hold of the
brawler, who’d tower over her,
and had just picked up a jar of
caramels off the counter to throw
through the wall-mirror if they
didn’t give him a packet of cigs
for nix. Get him by the arm she
would, him cursing and laugh-
ing, and propel him out the door.
“You go. Go! Home to your
yife.” And off he’d stagger,
muttering away.
All this time, the men of the
family, who’d been bluffed to
the other end of the shop, would
stand watching, saying brave
things—to each other. A poor
lot, I thought, and that little
tiger showing them up. But,
thinking it over, it seemed she’d
made ’em that way, wearing the
only pair of pants in the family.
But the thing that started to
get my goat in the end was the
way they’d down us. That got
my goat.
“You mens in Australia,” she
would tell me, “always shicker
and horse-races.”
“That’s right,” I’d answer with
thin lips. “That’s how they like
it here.”
“In Europe you see not so
many.”
“No?”
“No.”
And in my mind, I’d say:
“Well, why don’t you get back
there?” Mind you, a lot of
people said it out loud to them
often enough, particularly when
the Aussie cigs weren’t forth-
coming.
“Sa-ay, where would you come
from?”
Leon was nearly always the
bunny for this type, being on tap
more than the others. “Is it your
business?” he’d answer in his
quiet voice—a nice, soft voice
most Viennese have. Sing-songy
like the Welsh.
“Where yuh come from?
Germany, eh?”
“No.”
Then the drunk,
or nark, would
splutter: “Get
back there. We
don’t want no
foreigners here.”
A few times
they were
attacked, and
after a while I
got a protective
feeling about
them, and would butt in: “On
your way, mate, or I’ll ring the
police,”
'THERE were lots of others, of
course. People who came in
several times a day and sat yarn-
ing, as if they were visiting. An
M.P., a dog-trainer, all sorts of
Aussies. Each one of the family
had their special favorites, and
many’s the fight when one served
the other’s “special.” I had to
be careful, too, particularly with
Pop, who was very jealous of his
favorites.
Still, it wasn’t easy for them
running that shop, I can tell you,
but they stuck it all in that funny
way reffos have—kind of expres-
sionless and quiet, as if they’d
suddenly hid themselves in a suit
of armor. All except Mumma.
She would shout:
“Go! Go! Mister. You
shicker.”
And, funnily enough, the bloke
would grin and say: “Aw, pipe
down, Ma,” and go off. I think
our boys’d like a good, strong,
bossy woman who would push
them around. Maybe that’s why
they’re so wild and free, because
we’re easygoing, giving-in sort
of women out here. But
Mumma, she wouldn’t take their
nonsense.
Still, this Europe-business got
me mad. Better streets, pictures
on Sunday, opera-houses, and
being able to sit in a coffee-shop
all day if you wanted, with only
a glass of water in front of you,
not ordering anything, and any
newspaper in the world brought
to you just by whacking a spoon
on a glass for the waiter. I’d like
to see me answer to that!
Oh, yes, and the water was
better. The water was beautiful,
not like our water. And nobody
had so many false teeth like us.
“Here,” Mumma would say,
looking puzzled, “the customer
come in and smile, so” —she
stretches her mouth as wide as it
will go—“the new plate, eh, how
you like? Proud,” she would
almost shout. “Better than true
teeth, they think. Are they
mad?”
I’d stroke my own four with
my tongue and mutter: “Dry
up.” But she’d give me a funny
look, seeing my lips move.
Anton would tease me:
“How’s that bullocky who calls
for you Friday nights, Pat?” He
knew very well as Tim was one
of his specials, only he liked to
get me going.
“You, you worm,” I’d snap.
“He’s got shoulders, anyway.”
“All padding,” he’d laugh.
“Well, if they were, which


Missing Friend
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of MISS AGNES ISA McCORMIOK last
heard of in Sydney,, at one time a
Governess at Uralla, please communicate
with GEORGE M. EDWARDS o& CO.,
Solicitors, P.O. Box 20, Uralla.
Public Notice
I, MARGARET RADIK, of Russian Nation-
ality, bom at Geneva, Switzerland, resi-
dent three years in Australia, now
residing at 7 Daclea, Oourland Street,
Randwick, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROMA MAY MASON late of Leich-
hardt. —TAKE NOTICE that GEORGE
HENRY MASON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1882 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of January
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. WILSON
& THOMSON, Solicitors, of 155 King
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
No. 412 of 1954.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD TYNDALL
(address unknown) a Labourer. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ANNIE ISOBBL
TYNDALL has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of separation of the parties for a
continuous period of not less than five
years there being no reasonable likelihood
of cohabitation being resumed IP you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within Thirty clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your
so doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
Dated this sth day of October, 1954. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN ESQ., of 37-58 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia.
OjyecloMu UfoOmj
'to AuHruon,
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect. It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it holds its shape until the very end of its
many years of hard service.
The new 1954 range of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will never fade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will be well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
ttfttdabe*
PURE WOOL
floth
GUARANTEED NEVER
TO FADE OR SHRINiC
m
i
'si
m
C 4.113
they’re not —it’s better than hav-
ing a pot like you got already.”
That would set the little beggar
back, and I’d catch him all day,
patting his stomach and looking
worried.
Oh, yes, I liked them, and it
was mostly fun, being in on their
jokes and the quarrels, half in
German, half in English, with
everyone red in the face and
stamping up and down, and
rushing to get me on their side,
whichever it might be.
All except this picking us to
pieces. Probably only waiting
till they’re rich enough to go
back, I’d think angrily.
T OLA, the bad-tempered girl,
came in one Saturday after-
noon with Leon, and oh, boy!
what a freeze. Poor little Leon
went pale and strained, while
the girl sat chatting brightly to
his mother.
I could see Mumma was freez-
ing her out, but Lola, who wasn’t
used to her, like me, seemed to
think this was the way foreigners
naturally acted. But she was a
bit of a trick. I could see that
after a while. As I passed, I
heard her sigh: “I am such a
dumbkop ...” and the rest of
her words were drowned out in
the roars of laughter.
“You speak Doich?” Mumma
asked with a gleam of interest
breaking through the frost.
“Bissel” Lola lisped with a
funny face, and they roared
again at this bit of dialect.
After that, Leon got a bit of
color in his poor white cheeks
and I thought: “Good for you,
sis.” She’d picked up scraps of
Viennese from Leon and used
them all mangled with her Aussie
accent. I noticed nothing makes
a foreigner laugh more than this.
She left later with lots of
laughter, and I thought to myself,
IFm, I’ll bet Leon’s got quite a
bit to do with that gal being as
bad-tempered as he says. He’s
probably always putting off
marrying her, being so scared of
Mumma.
But the night I walked out on
them was Jubilee night. What a
night! Thousands of people
jammed outside in the streets
and overflowing into the bar six-
arid ten-deep. AH hands work-
ing flat-out; even Anton, quick
and handy when he had to be.
Cars dawdling along bumper to
bumper, and three policemen
where there was usually none,
directing the stream towards the
harbor-front. It was hot as hell
and tempers were short, I can
tell you. Pop started the rumpus
during a lull when the celebra-
tions had got under way outside,
“Choobilee! Choobilee! Pah!
You think this is somethings, eh,
Putt?”
I was all shaky with excite-
ment and sorry I’d said I’d work.
I had a longing to be out there
with them —yelling and rejoic-
ing, and felt cranky thinking of
Tim with the boys having a high
old time.
I turned to Pop, a bit cool, and
said: “Don’t you think it’s a
great sight?”
“Crate! ” he sneered. “Vot iss
crate? In Europe, ve haf pro-
cession like you nefer see in your
lifetime. Ve haf”
“Cop this. Pop,” I said through
my teeth. “If your processions
are so big, your water so blasted
pure, and your coffee-shops such
great shakes, why don’t you get
the hell back there and leave us
alone in our puddle?” (I meant
the Pacific.)
“Vot you speak?” he shouted
angrily.
“You heard! ” and I ripped off
my apron.
Momma trundled up, the boys
clucking behind her like two
alarmed chicks,
“Vot iss this? Pat you not
going. Ve too busy tonight.
Papa, you speak too much.” And
she hurled a jabber of abuse
at him that would have dropped
a wharfie.
“Sorry,” I said, and brushed
past and out the door.
I felt a bit sick, because I’d got
fond of them. I liked the family
atmosphere you don’t get much
in shops. Also, I’d been there
a year and a half, and I’d
promised Mumma I’d help out
when she went for her trip home
in a few months. But the anger
was bubbling away in me like it
does in most of us when the
older foreigners let their home-
sickness get out of hand.
IyrEXT day Anton rang me.
“What’s eating you, Pat?
You don’t usually take any notice
of the old boy.”
“Ah, don’t soft-soap me,” I
snapped. “You’re all the same,
I’m not mug enough to go on
working for people”-——
“Come on, Pat,” he said in that
soft Viennese voice that always
got him his way. “WeTe used
to you, and Leon’s good for
nothing. He had another row
with Lola on the phone this
morning because he couldn’t see
her last night, and Mum’s going
away. We want you back,
Patto.”
“You can get others,
diplomat” I said nastily.
“But who’ll cook my eggs like
you? Not even Mum can get
them right.” He sounded so
despairing, I burst out laugh-
ing—and, of course, I went back.
Back to the homey atmosphere
of quarrelling, and Pop’s surly
grunts and Leon’s white drawn
face and muttered phone-calls
and Mumma’s bossing and shout-
ing and, naturally, doing half
Anton’s work.
But I was on guard and a bit
distant just the same, perhaps
because Tim started to work me
up about them. I think he was
jealous of the two good-looking
boys being with me all day.
■yDELL, Mumma went for her
YY trip, promising to bring me
a “Vienna-umbrella” that folded
up into pocket-size.
“Better than Australia, no?”
I muttered to myself. \
Then one morning a letter
came, and I heard the boys
laughing like mad. Pop hovered
round them, smiling in his surly
way through his never-ending
cigarette-smoke. For all his jeers,
I was surprised when he wouldn’t
go with her on the trip home.
Anton yelled: “Hey, Pat,
come and listen to this. Mum’s
written a letter in English for a
bet.”
I sauntered over to them, a bit
high-hat and sat down kind of
stiffly.
“Some of the family over there
wouldn’t believe she can write
English, so she’s written this.
Listen: ‘My Dearest Family—
This letter I am English writing
because they think I not able. So
many fights since I am coming.
I am telling all I am Australian,
and they are jealous from this.
As you are knowing, to be a
foreigner in Europe is to be
something , . . The Vienna girls
are changing so much I am not
more liking them. So cheeky,
and not funny like die Lola.
Everyone is laugh when I am
saying the German Leon’s maidl
is speaking, but not one speak
such good English like L’ ”
Here the boys were doubled up
with laughter, and I laughed
aloud without meaning to, re-
membering her awful accent, a
cross between a Woolloomooloo
bartender and a busy sawmill.
“Listen, here she goes again—
T am home soon, it is not the
same, and cold, so cold. I hope
Papa is not to order Easters egg.
Enough is very much when Papa
is ordering. Many kisses. Your
loving Mumma.’ ”
Anton mimicked: “No one
speak such good English like I,”
and he fell against Leon, and the
two of them staggered about
moaning, while their father
grinned and said “Pssh! Pssh!”
to quieten them.
I grinned, too, and stopped
being high-hat.
Then the phone rang and
Leon’s face went like paper. He
raced to it.
“Yes, .yes,” he croaked.
“L-Lola?”
“Gosh,” I sighed, “If Tim
would only feel like that about
me. All that gets him steamed
up is that old bomb of his.”
“Ah,” Anton said, “we reffos
know how to loove —no, luff.
Luff.” And he kept murmuring
the silly word, till I hit him.
“Think he’ll marry her? Your
mother”
“Well, he’s so gone on her, it
looks like it. But she’ll cop the
lot of us, you know. Then
Mum’ll try to lick her into
shape. . .”
I thought of the clowning I’d
overheard, and said:
“Watch she doesn’t lick all
you into shape—a nice shape
you might even like.”
He leaned forward, the 20-
year-old brat, and whispered:
“Tell you a secret. When it
comes to women—wives —you
Aussies put ’em in the shade.
The boys I know who’ve married
them say it works fine.”
And he went round all day,
after that, singing bits of “The
Girl That I Marry,” with a lot
of meaning in “soft and pink as
a nursery.”
“Well, can you beat that!” I
thought. “Better than Europe,
no?”
SHIFT-WORKER
Black blocks beneath the black-
bathed stars
Cold houses squat in stolid
silence
Along the moon-dead streets; a
black cat-shadow darts.
Dissolves into lane - darkness;
down the path
A square of light leaps out, lurks
on the grass
And stares back boldly from the
paling fence.
TASMANIA.
J. C. H.


Gillette
HP&rs.
Quick-feed DISPENSER
Quick-action RAZOR
WO,
i
•//' // //' // <V • ,* • .*/ * //»/,** ! 1 »!! >i* • *,
I hi; • !:»/', / »/'.;* // //»;/ 1, •! •; «;».
7/// 1 * / 1 1 /•/ ' 11 4 1 1 1. 1 1 1 >! 11! i
%
V
'//////
A
f L
I
1
1
Quick-feed Dispenser
tew Blue Gillette Blade
sharpest in the world
Quick-action Razor
Speed from the word go. It’s the system that does
it. Twist the quick-action Gillette Razor’s open, a
new blade from the quick-feed Dispenser, twist
the razor’s closed ready for the fastest, smoothest
shave. And the 10-blade quick-feed Dispenser has
a built-in container for used blades. Start Superspeed
shaving today.
Quick-feed Dispenser loads
new blade in a flash
V
Always buy Blue Gillette Blades in a
Dispenser IT COSTS NO MORE!
10-blade DISPENSER 3'9
10-blade Packet . .
5-blade Packet . . hOi
Container at back ends used
blade nuisance.
Q
Q
G
Vl
36
Ds2a
Good mornings' begin with Gillette
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSiniJ'AK
95
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson A Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers ,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS J I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
ti
m
m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
LIFEGUARD CIGARETTES
Obtain your supplies of
quality cigarettes—Cork or Plain
—priced at 80/- per 1,000-
Lifeguard Tobacco, Ltd.,
Box 31, P. 0., Chippendale, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy an illustrated edition of
Margaret Mitchell’s novel Gone With
The Wind.— s 924.
To buy copy of The War at Sea by
Capt. S. W. R05ki11.—5922.
Whereabouts of John George
Blakey, who emigrated to Australia
about 1910 from Newcastle-on-Tyne,
England. Daughter inquiring. (Re-
ply direct to Mrs. Sarah Mclntosh, 6
Hereford-road, Harrogate, Yorkshire,
England.)
Script-writer and photographer,
N.S.W., university graduate, wants
contract to write private biography, or
history of business firm, to help him
to complete law studies. —5916,
„ Words of poem, “Lay of a Hat
Peg” by Barcroft Boake, and date
and name of the publication in which
it first appeared.—s9l4.
Words of verse, printed during
World War I, the last line of each
stanza reading, “The guns must go
through,” excepting the last, which
reads “The guns went through.”—
5911.
Any foreign or British Empire
stamps, collections or loose, would be
gratefully accepted by the Submarine
Old Comrades’ Association for sale
to the public. All proceeds to go to
the Building Fund of the association.
(Reply direct to Mr. J. Makepeace, 30
Charlton-street, Gateshead 8, Co.
Durham, England.)
Information Sought
(1) What clothing, if any, did the
Australian aborigines wear in an un-
civilised state ? (2) Had the scars on
their bodies any special significance?
(i) What ornaments did they favor?
(1) In the South, chiefly a rug of
kangaroo-, wallaby- or possum-skin,
size according to season, worn over
one shoulder, fur-side out; in the
north, nothing. (2) These were orna-
mental. Dr. W. Ramsay Smith, of
S.A., says the men’s scars braced up
joints and prevented the looseness of
tissues liable to occur in well-fed indi-
viduals to the detriment of fighting
powers. The N.T. women’s scars are
a record of family history. (3) For
great occasions Binghi painted and
anointed his body. Ordinarily he
wore brown decorations of kangaroo
teeth, necklaces of fur twisted into
string, threaded grass-stems on shells,
armlets of skin, dingo hair tassels,
hair belts and nosepins of wood,
bone or feather.
* * * *
(1) How did Eyre, the explorer,
spend his years after leaving Aus-
tralia? (2) What was the scandal
with which he was connected in the
West Indies ?
(1) In 1845 he went back to Eng-
land for his health’s sake. He after-
wards held official positions in New
Zealand, St. Vincent and the Leeward
Islands, and in 1864 became Governor
of Jamaica. (2) While Governor of
Jamaica, in 1865, he irregularly
hanged a Negro member of the local
legislature in the course of suppress-
ing a mutiny that commenced with a
massacre of white residents. He was
reprimanded and recalled, but after
two trials was held to have been justi-
fied in his action. Disraeli allotted
him the pension due to a retired
colonial Governor, and he lived in
seclusion from that time until his
death on November 30, 1901, at the
age of 86.
♦ # ♦ ♦
What procedure was adopted to
select the body of the Unknown
Soldier after World War I ?
Near Ypres, Arras, Cambrai, on
the Marne and “in two other
salients” six unrecognisable bodies of
soldiers of the King were disinterred
by an Imperial commission, placed in
six coffins, all exactly alike, and re-
moved to a soldiers’ hut. All con-
cerned then retired to a distance.
Lastly “a British officer of very high
rank” was blindfolded and led into
the hut, which he had not previously
entered. Groping about he finally
touched one of the coffins, which was
buried in Westminster Abbey.
♦ * ♦ •
Brief Answers
F.McC.: Blamire Young was the
author of several plays—“ Art for
Art’s Sake” was produced at the
Melbourne Repertory Theatre in 1911
■ —and in 1923 he published a mono-
graph on Goya called The Proverbs
of Goya J.K.: From your de-
scription the bird is almost certainly
the purple-crowned wren (Rosina
coronata), found in the inland dis-
tricts of Northern Australia. The
remarkable lilac shade of its head is
almost unparalleled in nature....
A.8.H.: Clement Wragge resigned
the position of Government meteoro-
logist of Queensland in 1902, to enter
on a period of research in the South
Sea islands, but in 1910 settled at
Auckland (N.Z.), where he established
a weather bureau, scientific museum
and botanical gardens. There he died
on December 10, 1922 HJ.McW.:
The book is Australia Felix, a Histori-
cal and Descriptive Account of the
Settlement of Port Phillip (1848) by
William Westgarth T.M.T.: An
account of the life of James Hardy
Vaux will be found in The Australian
Encylopcedia, vol. 1, page 611....
D. : The University of Melbourne
was established by Act of Parliament
on January 7, 1853, only 18 months
after the separation of Port Phillip
from N. S. Wales and its conversion
into the colony of Victoria
P.McG.: Tropic-birds, also known to
sailors as boatswain-birds —a name
originally applied to the skuas —be-
cause, their shrill call is thought to
resemble a boatswain’s pipe, are rare
in Australian seas. Two tropical
species sometimes occur on the tropical
coasts; one of these —the red-tailed
tropic-bird—breeds on Raine Island
and on the coasts of Northern
Queensland and has also been known
to breed on the Houtman Abrolhos
groups off Western Australia
E. : The shrub T. rumpjii (kavor-
kavor of the aborigines) has a fruit
like that of the crab- or wild-apple of
Europe, much appreciated by the
blacks of northern Queensland. Its
timber is light-colored, close-grained,
easily worked; it takes a good polish,
and is considered to resemble that of
the English sycamore W.S.; Their
ages are as follows: Arthur Bayldon,
Mary Gilmore (89); Gilbert Murray
(88); Will Ogilvie (85); Mrs. Tineas
Gunn (84); Frank Boreham (83);
Ethel Turner (82); W. A. Osborne
(81); N. F. Spielvogel, W. M. Flem-
ing, Frank Fox, Walter Murdoch
(80); Will Lawson, Hugh McCrae,
Thorold Waters (78); Stuart Gurr
(77); Lewis Lett (76); Norman Lind-
say, Charles Barrett, C. E. W. Bean,
Farmer Whyte, L. H. Allen (75);
Gerald Doorly (74); Rupert Atkinson,
Archer Russell, Hilda Bridges, H. M.
Green, Morris Miller (73); George
Mackaness, C. Price Conigrave, Alan
D. Mickle, Brian Vrepont, J. A.
Ferguson (72); Tom Dunbabin (71);
Bernard Cronin, H. E. Riemann, C. A.
Fenner, K. S. Prichard (70).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.C.: Corner Beit and sing it to
him L.O’K.: The old fellow just
managed to totter to the basket
W. 8.: It may be the answer to the
parking problem, but it is not a
poem N.M.T.: You can keep
your hairy tarantulas, thank you.
R.G.: It might suit a school
magazine, but not The Bulletin.
S.W.I.; It was not even a
starter A.L.M.: At least you are
happy M.E.S.: It js far too
frail for this tough w0r1d....
D.G.K.: None of them made the
grade G.N.: Get more punch
into your work C.F.: Merely a
straggler among this year’s crop of
spring poems... .A.T.G.: It went
out the window... .D.G.E.: Can’t
allow you to follow in C. J. Dennis’s
footsteps L.H.: Just the opening
stanza: —
When I opened my paper this morning,
My face turned suddenly pale,
For I saw in the “unwanted” columns,
That my wife had put me up for sale.
. ...N.H.: “Discordant demons”
seems to describe them... .H.M.M.:
You are in a bad way:
I’m sitting here with elbows bent,
My beer is fiat, my money’s spent.
I’ve lost the dough to pay the rent
Down in a wretched two-up tent.
Yes, things are crook round Tallyrook.
. ...A.T.: By now almost every
ringbarked tree in Australia must
have been described by some poet or
another L.M.E.: You’re a bit
late with long poem beginning with
the landing of Captain Cook and
ending:
Those fifty years of Federation
So quickly did they flee,
And now a land of consolation
Celebrates her jubilee.
D.B.: Let us see something
from your pen when you are a little
older J.A.U.: Not investing in
“wind-tossed seas and shadows on
the moon” this week, thanks
R.R.: “Rather reluctantly” your
poem “climbed down and went
home” N.W.M.: Strange things
seem to happen out Tennant Creek
way R.McW.: Peppermint
Grove is quite a poetical address;
alas, you’re no poet H.S.F.:
“The Peak Hour Scramble” has an
authentic note:
In the evening rush confusing,
No polite folk do I meet,
Only people loudly abusing
Others for treading on their feet.
... .R.K.McL.: What happened to
the rest of the masterpiece begin-
ning:—
She wore a poppy in her hair,
Which was curly and very fair.
She winked at me, looked coy,
Then said “Will you be my boy?”
... .F.G.; Try them elsewhere....
S. : To encounter in one poem
centipedes, fleas, moths, silverfish,
mice, snails and worms was a little
more than we could stand
T. : It says nothing new about
the four seasons L.D.: It burnt
itself out in the basket..,.B.C.:
Glad to note that the campfires are
still burning E.P.: There’s some-
thing in what you say:—
But all the books and study,
One finds with sad dismay,
Do naught to make a writer sprout
If he has nowt to say.
R.P.; Yours is the seventh old
bush road we have been invited to
travel this week A.T.C.: Neither
“Dusk” nor “Dawn” captured our
fancy K.A.; We couldn’t go to
press without “Yes, Love Is a
Wonderful Thing”:
I didn’t dream that so much bliss
Could come out of just one kiss,
For bliss it surely is to be a wife.
Even after only 18 years of life.
When first we met at a lovely dance
’Twasn’t long before we wed at the manse,
Because our first one kiss led on to others,
And now I’ve joined the army of mothers.
Happily wed to a fine young chap,
Who helps in the house and changes a nap.
.... RJ.P.: Afraid you won’t be
buying any copies for your friends.


CHANG THE STORY TELLER
BY MABEL WALN SMITH
"7* HE art of story-telling
f probably originated in
y j China, where it is classed
as a special profession.
Love and intrigue, lawless
characters, mythical zoology,
historical lore . . . Pay your
coppers and take your choice.
A Chinese story-teller often
has as his patron the elder of
some particular family. Radiat-
ing from this centre in ordinary
times, even if homestead gates
are closed, some children’s
voices, folk-lore, songs and occa-
sionally sharp squabbles —drift-
ing over the walls to the outside
world. Since the social unit of
China is not the individual, but
the family, a wise story-teller
keeps close to such a group in
order to “feel the pulse of the
country.” His talent, in turn, is
invaluable to the family elder at
festival - time, birthday - feasts,
wedding-celebrations, and serves
to lay a foundation in history
for the many growing children.
Chang - the - Stqryteller was
accustomed to sit with his back
toward one corner of the high,
grey brick walls which hide the
beauty of the Wong family’s
myriad living-quarters, near the
grove of slender bamboo-trees,
and facing the Grand Canal. The
spot was well chosen for a
weaver of tales. -A weeping-
willow sheltered it from too
much rain in spring and too
much sun in summer, but did
nothing to cut off a view of the
changing hills in autumn. The
tree’s big old roots formed a
comfortable seat to rest in ; it
was beside a twisting path along
which wheelbarrows piled high
with carrots, celery, wine-red
beets, porous lotus-root, mus-
tard-greens and crates of quack-
ing brown ducks creaked from
farm to town on market-day. The
story-teller’s seat was not too
far from the Wong schoolroom
within the walls ; it was near
steps up from the water where
tired sampan people could tie
up their craft and emerge from
the canal to refresh themselves
with one of Chang’s stories.
Mei Chin-ling, or
Moon-beauty my
Chinese classmate at
university in America,
my dear friend in
China while I lived
there —is married into
the Wong family.
During those rare
periods when she
could leave her doctor
husband, whose prac-
tice is in Tientsin, and
I could break away
from my marine-
surveyor husband in
Shanghai, we used to
meet for a happy, lazy
holiday at the old
Wong farmstead
which lies on the Grand Canal,
south of Tientsin and north of
Shanghai.
Thus I know Chang-the-Story-
teller, who sits in his faded blue
gown with its wide sleeves and
neck buttoned high, just outside
the big grey farmstead gates.
His long water-pipe with its tiny
tobacco-bowl is in one hand.
This leaves the other hand free
to select dried watermelon-seeds
from the squat yellow dish at his
side. Or to pour himself a cup
of green tea from the fragrant
pot within easy reach. His
kindly, wrinkled old face flaunts
a few well-tended hairs in lieu
of beard. His bright brown eyes
twinkle merrily as he invites
everyone to come under his
willow-tree and listen to his
stories of China. Stories appro-
priate to the seasons.
+ +
As I joined the group under
the willow-tree one spring morn-
ing Chang was giving an account
of the origin of China as only
the Chinese, out of their ancient
traditions and beliefs, can give
it. Chang had once been part of
an actors’ troupe, hence he spoke
in the traditional high rhythm
of the Chinese stage.
“In the beginning,” said
Chang, “there was the giant god
Pan Ku. He sat with a chisel in
one hand and a mallet in the
other. Sky and ground were all
one, and he had to reduce chaos
to order by pounding, splitting
and carving the earth into a
proper shape,
“Pan Ku, as he toiled, grew
larger and ever more large until
at last he struggled to his knees.
Gradually he pushed up the
heavens. With one mighty thrust
of a huge foot he expanded the
earth to the east. With one
mighty thrust of the other huge
foot he expanded the earth to
the west. With two enormous
fists he pushed toward north and
south. Then with wide sweeps
of his broad elbows he made
everything more shapely and
solid.
“Finally Pan Ku rose to his
enormous length and the world,
in a rough way, was fit to live
upon.” Chang - the
paused to fill his water-pipe.
With a broad wave of one
gracious hand he invited his
large audience to partake of his
choice black melon-seeds from
the yellow dish. Then he con-
tinued :
“Pan Ku was now eighteen
thousand years old. He had
worked every second of that
time without rest. Yet he was
strong and hearty. It seemed as
if he’d never come to an end.”
But Pan Ku did come to an
end, Chang told us, and sud-
denly. He just shivered to
pieces . . . Even in dying, how-
ever, he continued to work. The
breaking-up of his great body
gave the world its furniture. His
breath drifted away into clouds
and winds; his voice became
thunder ; his left eye began to
look more and more like the
moon, his right eye was the sun.
His arms and legs changed into
four big pillars to hold up the
sky, and his five extremities
changed into the five great
mountains famous in Chinese
history. His muscles became the
ridges of the earth’s surface;
his blood flowed out and made
the four principal rivers; his
sinews and veins were the earth’s
strata; his flesh changed into
soil. His hair and beard, which
had always glittered with the
sparks of his vitality, sputtered
away to become plants and
trees ; his teeth and bones be-
came metals ; his marrow slipped
out into precious stones. The
sweat of his great body rushed
down into rain.
“Ai-yah!” said Chang, “Only
the last particles of Pan Ku’s
mortal frame were now left. The
stars, moon and sun looked
coldly down upon these. The
mountains stared from a dis-
tance and the rivers rushed
noisily on their several ways.
Each in its manner. Plants and
trees stood aimlessly about.
Jade, emeralds and precious
metals sulked because they had
no admirers.”
Something had to be done. So
Humans must try not to sprout feathers
the wind romped merrily by
and, in playful mood, blew upon
the last particles of Pan Ku.
They, being idle, had fallen into
mischief and now crawled about
as parasites and microbes. But,
even so, they didn’t like being
mocked . . . “When they felt
the laugh of the wind they lifted
up their heads, straightened their
shoulders and became men and
women.” Chang paused for a
sip of green tea.
+ 4-
But not all was well, Chang
told us, solemnly shaking his
head. So the Three Leaders —
the Celestial, the Terrestrial and
the Human Sovereign—came to
straighten things out. First they
propped-up the sky with Pan
Ku’s four huge pillars. Then
they laid down a few rules:
Rivers were to lie still on flat
land —they could run downhill
but not uphill; mountains and
trees were to stand in one place
—the latter could wave about if
they kept their feet still, the
former mustn’t be teased too
much by the wind. Precious
metals were to cultivate modesty
in order to enhance their value
—to bury themselves in the
rocks would be best. All crea-
tures possessing bones and flesh
were to practise the arts of eat-
ing, drinking and breathing, no
matter how difficult to learn
these accomplishments might be.
Human beings must try not to
sprout feathers, not to grow
horns like an ox, not to develop
dragon-tails and not to have
claws like a lion. Perhaps they
couldn’t keep their voices from
sounding like the whirring of
beetles’ wings, but they could
and must prevent their ears
from growing so large that they
rolled up in them when they
went to sleep.
Worn-out,*" one after another,
by their fierce struggle with the
world’s problems, the Three
Leaders disappeared and the Wu
Ti took their place.
“Mind you,” said Chang,
pointing with his long water-
pipe, “the world wasn’t so
stinted in those days. Which
meant you could have as many
as you wanted of any one num-
ber. Hence the Wu Ti, or Five
Rulers, were actually a series of
eleven.” The first of these Wu
Ti, Chang explained, faced many
difficulties: Such as the “Mag-
netic Mountain,” that kept on
drawing the nails out of ships
and wrecking them; the “Burn-
ing Mountain,” of which the
volcanic source could not be
located; and the perplexing
problem of whether the “Weak
Water,” which was too feeble
to support even a goose-feather,
should be called a river or a
lake.
After a while the Wu Ti put
an end to the curling-up of the
earth’s edges, and at the same
time laid out the boundaries of
China proper in the shape of a
great round-bodied teapot. It
was done in this way: Near the
fabled mountain of Yeu Tzu the
sun was to set in a cave. That
side of the world would be
known as the West. The other
side, guarded by the Sea of
Darkness, would be the East.
To the north would be the
region of frozen lakes, howling
wolves and white foxes.
When more Wu Ti came along
they spent several centuries per-
suading the Kingdom of Women
—who worshipped their own
female ancestors, drank sweet
dew, danced and ate phoenix-eggs
—and the Kingdom of Hus-
bands to join forces rather than
lead separate lives. For this
men were taught the Law of
Marriage, given the secret of
fire, shown how to live in
houses, how to count time by
means of knots tied in a string
and encouraged to use herbs as
medicine . . . Chang raised one
slanted eyebrow to emphasise
these points.
Then he continued: “After
these Wu Ti passed on the shoot-
ing of arrows toward the west
was forbidden, lest they hit the
grave of such strenuous workers
who so badly needed rest.”
Soon Yao and Shun ushered
in The Golden Age, which meant
everything was better but not
quite perfect. The elements had
been getting little attention and
became jealous. They joined
with some bad spirits and broke
the north-western pillar of the
sky. This let down one corner
of the heavens and flooded the
earth. Buckets of water fell, ran
over everything and rose to the
tops of the mountains. “But
only the worst of the creatures
got drowned,” soothed Chang,
“because the Great Yu —an
engineer—came to the rescue.”
Yu dug China’s nine main
canals. Later this Great Yu
became emperor and established
China’s earliest dynasty —the
Hsia Dynasty, in 2800 b.c.
“All of this happened,” ended
Chang, “because in the Be-
ginning there was the giant god,
Pan Ku.”
+ +
“Pan Ku was the beginning
of the whole world,” proudly
spoke up a schoolboy pulling
on his peaked cap and gathering
up his books, “because China is
the oldest nation on earth.”
“More than four thousand
years old,” added his friend with
the round face and sturdy legs,
as they ran inside the big grey
gate toward the farmstead class-
room.
“Ai-yah!” grunted a Chinese
farmer, motioning the members
of his large family to seats in
his flat-bottomed boat. “And
to think there have become more
than four hundred and fifty mil-
lion people in my country! ” He
settled two small sons securely
among the sacks of rice, untied
the sampan and poled it out into
the stream.
“Shieh shieh-ni, Chang !” —
“Thank you” chuckled a fat
peasant woman appreciatively as
she mounted her patient white
donkey. Balancing her bag of
mustard-seed in front of her she
set off down the winding path
toward the market.
The creaking of wheelbarrows
faded away in the distance,
Chang-the-Storyteller lit the
tobacco in his water-pipe and
leaned back against the grey
trunk of his willow-tree, oblivi-
ous to the generous gleam of
copper cash placed tactfully
amongst the black watermelon-
seeds in his squat yellow dish.
He wore the contented air of
one who has started the world
on its way.


£400,000
POWER LOAN
for
NORTHERN RIVERS
Now Open!
To assist in the expansion of its electricity system—a programme which will
ultimately serve 3,500 more North Coast homes and farms—the Northern
Rivers County Council has opened its first public Loan. Issued at par for
either 10 or 20 years, the Loan gives you every opportunity to secure 4| per
cent, annually from an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.
Supplying practically the entire North Coast, from North of Kempsey to the
Queensland border, the Council’s 28,175 consumers make it the largest rural
electricity undertaking in the State.
Invest in the rich North Coast Today!
You con apply at any Commonwealth Trading Bank branch,
through your Stockbroker, or at the Council's offices at
Grafton. Lismore or CofF's Harbour. Ask for a Prospectus and
application form today.
The underwriters, J. B. Were & Son, have exercised their right to take firm
£200,000. The Loan will close on or before 30th October, 1954.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The law of averages is against
the winning of important events
by the favorite, but, of late years,
takers of the odds have done
remarkably well in the Caulfield
Cup. Silver Phantom was made a
short-priced favorite after win-
ning last year’s A.J.C. Epsom in
1.34 i (Australian record), but
failed over the extra half-mile,
finishing eighth to My Hero.
Against this, six winning
favorites, Rising Fast, Pesha-
war, Basha Felika, Grey Boots,
Columnist and St. Fairy, in
recent years. Shortest price
for a Cup winner was in 1926,
5 to 4 Manfred.
After his Caulfield Cup win
Rising Fast is favorite for the
Melbourne Cup. The only Caul-
field Cup winners to take the big
double since 1879 have been
Poseidon (1906), The Trump
(1937) and Rivette (1939). Ris-
ing Fast carried 8.10 in the Caul-
field Cup, and was handicapped
at 8.9 for the Melbourne Cup ;
but the full penalty of 101 b. has
increased his weight to 9.5.
Rising Fast is a son of Alonzo
(imp.) and grandson of Mid-Day
Sun, a winner of the English
Derby now at stud in New Zea-
land. Alonzo is closely related
to some famous sires—Sir Gala-
had 111, Bull Dog, Bois Roussel,
Bahrain and Admiral Drake —
and traces back on the dam’s side
to Carbine’s greatest son, Spear-
mint. Faster, dam of Rising
Fast, was got by Mr. Standfast
(imp.) from Cutie by Nigger
Minstrel from Miss Cute (imp.)
by Charles O’Malley.
Master Proven is second-
favorite and is closely pressing
Rising Fast. Some bookmakers
have the pair equal-favorites.
They are the only horses under
double-figures. Prince Delville
is on the third line with Sunish
and Surprise Ending. Sunish
won the Australian Cup, two
miles 1} furlongs, with 8.9 last
season ; with lib more he could
be a danger. Others in the
betting: Electro, Wodalla and
Advocate.
Rising Fast is a five-year-old ;
23 five-year-olds have won the
Melbourne Cup. Master Proven
is a six-year-old—of which 14
have won the same.
Since 1882 the Moonee Valley
Cup (a race of varying distance,
now 13 furlongs and worth
£4250) has had little bearing on
Melbourne Cup prospects. But
Wodalla won both Cups last
spring, and, looking over the
records, one discovers that Blue
Spec and Clean Sweep also
landed both races in the same
season. It’s possible the same
thing could happen this year.
Sunish might win the Valley
Cup from Surprise Ending and
Advocate.
This year the Cox Plate is
worth as much as the Moonee
Valley Cup. A good field for the
li mile on Saturday. Hydrogen
is expected to make a bold bid
for his third successive win—in
Rising Fast’s absence he might
do it. Last spring Hydrogen beat
Prince Morvi and Cromis; in
1952, Ellerslie and Advocate, In
recent years winners of the Plate
included Delta, Carbon Copy,
Flight (twice), Tranquil Star
(twice), Beau Vite (twice) and
Young Idea (twice). Phar Lap
and Chatham also won it twice.
Half Past, winner of City
Tattersall’s Gold Cup, has won
two main handicaps since taking
a Rosehill Auburn Stakes a few
weeks ago ; at this rate he could
develop into one of Sydney’s best
stayers. Half Past was foaled
in November, 1950, and was
given his name before the New
Zealand yearling sales were held
in January, 1952. T. J. Smith
(who races him in partnership
with J. Rogan) bought him as a
yearling for lOOOgns. His good
win at Randwick influenced the
stable to run him in the Mel-
“Aim me at that press-bloke with the bow-tie, Gus—
he says I'm a fake!”
bourne Cup, in which he was
handicapped at the luxury
weight of 7.7, but the penalty
has raised this to 7.12. He
carried 8.12 in City Tatt’s Cup.
This Time, Half Past’s dam (he’s
by Underwood, imp.), wasn’t
raced. By Valkyrian (imp.) and
a half-sister of Immediate. Re-
member Immediate’s Camellia
Stakes win at Rosehill a few
seasons back, after a false
start? Several of the runners
completed the course with Im-
mediate first past the judge’s-
box. All were recalled, and
Immediate won again.
Yearlings auctioned at Rand-
wick last Easter will keep bob-
bing up as winners in various
parts of Australia from now on.
Two of them won at Eagle
Farm on Saturday, in the
divisions of the Hopeful
Stakes. Malarno, winner of
the First Division, is a
Captain Fox (imp.) colt from
Sure Step by Spearfelt, and cost
1950gns. Sure Step is a sister to
Soft Step, a dual-winner of the
Queensland Cup. Gullungun is
by the new sire Emperor (imp.).
Dam, Belle Pomme, half-sister
to Lady Kuvera, is by Beau
Pere (imp.) from Burnt Apple
(imp.) by Pommern. Gullungun
cost 525gns. '
Perfect Strider appears to
have been happily named. He
led all the way to win the New-
castle Juvenile Stakes. The colt
is unusual in one respect —he’s
by English sire Golden Hackle
from an unidentified mare.
Golden Hackle’s oldest progeny
are three-year-olds. A son of
Hyperion, Golden Hackle won
races in England from six fur-
longs to li mile.
• • • •
Newtown Wonder (imp.) (a
half-brother of Golden Hackle,
incidentally) has sired progeny
noted for early speed but not, to
date, stamina. He added another
winner to his list when two-year-
old colt Sir Newton (a 1500gns.
yearling) cleared out with City
Tattersall’s Youthful Stakes.
Aquarua, next-best, made a
tardy beginning: one to keep in
mind for an early coin. Sir
Newton has improved with each
outing. He was fourth in the
Breeders’ Plate, second in the
Canonbury Stakes. From Sweet
and Low, a Double Remove
(imp.) mare, and traces back to
Hotchkiss.
• • • •
Fire Dancer, winner of the
Canterbury Maiden, is the first
Brimstone to win in Sydney. The
imported stallion’s oldest pro-
geny are now two-year-olds.
Brimstone’s sire, Dante, was un-
beaten in six starts at two years,
his dam, Tropical Sun, was by
Hyperion. Brimstone is a grand-
son of Nearco, and on the dam’s
side traces back to Spearmint.
In England Brimstone won races
to If mile. Fire Dancer, a
550gns. yearling, is related to
Hua and Shoreham. Her dam,
Portulaca, is a daughter of Mar-
conigram (imp.). Family lines
include two Melbourne Cup
winners. Apologue and Sirius,
“P.0.M.C.”: Not only poor
punters have unpredictable runs
of ins and outs —trainers, owners
and hoops suffer sudden vicissi-
tudes of fortune as well. Take
Sellwood. After a long period
with the wind fairly behind him,
he finished second to everything
about the place during the
A.J.C. carnival at Randwick and
then, following another second
at his first ride at Caulfield on
Cup day, fractured his collar-
bone in the next race. Bill
Williamson, also in excessive
winning vein, came down and
was badly hurt in the same crash.
Arthur Ward, filling the boots of
one on Farquhar and the other
on Rising Fast, continued a lucky
trot which has returned him
about 10 winners in less than
three weeks.
Sendiri, winner of the Rand-
wick Juvenile Stakes, is from a
sister of Civic Pride and
Chaperone (by Brueghel, imp.,
from Lonely by Ajax from
Aulone by Claro, imp.).
Sendiri cost 1400gns. at Rand-
wick as a yearling,
• * *
After playing a country side
and W.A., Hutton and Co. begin
a match against a “Combined
XI” on Friday.
“Mid-on”: The Victorian
Cricket Association has adopted
for its first-grade matches this
season the rule that “most runs
wins” (whether the side with the
fewer runs on the board has
been dismissed or not), presum-
ably in the interests of brighter
cricket. It doesn’t always work
out like that. Sydney’s grade-
cricket controllers introduced
the rule last year; this year
they’ve been glad to drop it.
The rule can liven up the game
on the second day, stop that
stolid playing-for-a-draw by the
team batting second ; but it can,
too, produce the dull cricket it’s
designed to prevent. For in-
stance, the captain of the fielding
side on the second day, with the
batting team likely to overhaul
his team’s score, can make no
attempt to get ’em out, concen-
trating all afternoon on negative,
run-limiting bowling.
“K.R.”: New N.S.W. cricket-
selector Jack Chegwyn is, at 45,
one of the oldest and longest-
playing of Sydney’s grade-
cricketers. He’s played grade for
more than 27 years, about
26-27ths of the time with the
firsts. All his cricket has been
with Randwick, which side he
now skippers. But he has never,
as Sydney newspapers recently
claimed, played for the State;
at least, I can’t recall when he
did so, and the latest N.S.W.
Cricket Year-book has no record
of it. But “Cheggie” has done
a lot for cricket. For one thing,
he has organised and led any
number of teams, made-up of
Test-players and promising
youngsters, to various country
parts of N.S.W. and Queensland.
Good for cricket in the country
and good for the young players.
A couple of years back he took
a team to Hong Kong.
♦ * ♦
A few upsets in the Australian
professional golf-championship,
played at Royal Sydney—Pick-
worth outed in the first round by
Jim Mclnnes, and Von Nida
(easily, 7 and 5) in a semi-final
by Nagle. The final, between
Nagle and Mclnnes (who had
also, surprisingly, beaten Cremin
in the other semi-final), was won
by Nagle, 1 up.
♦ * ♦
Recent winner of the Aus-
tralian flyweight championship
from Taffy Hancock, Vince
Blake (8.2 y) scored another
points decision at Leichhardt
when referee Jack Burns de-
clared him winner over Vic-
torian Bullant Simms (8.2|). The
contest was limited to 12 rounds,
so Blake’s title was not at stake,
but Simms, as well as many of
his supporters, thought he had
won.
• • • •
Attacking from the first bell,
Blake carried the fight to Simms
at all times. Lusty left swings
shook Simms early, although he
came good in round eight to
win a nerve-tingling toe-to-toe
rally. Blake again commenced
to connect with innumerable
straight-lefts. His aggression,
and points for blows landed,
won the fight for him beyond
a reasonable doubt. But it’s an
old Leichhardt custom to hoot
points decisions. Simms now
wants to meet Blake under
championship conditions.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Between
Ourselves
dď
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
There'll be one
next door to
you soon! i
because .....
Life is easier with a 1
d
Motor
Mower
m
eft 5 "
OB
T EB» S
I would like a demonstration of
Mobilco Motor Mower at Homan
Name ■ ■■
Address . ■
Mobilco it right out in front with its big 98 c.c.
Villiers engine ... its special clutch which lets
the cutting blades drive without the ground roller
being driven excellent for neat trimming under
trees, around shrubs and along edges ... its
splendid performance and absolute ease of
handling. SIX MONTHS GUARANTEE AND YOURS
FOR CASH OR EASY TERMS.
LONG-GRASS CUTTER
I
I
- f',
StSSlipiy’BpM . ■■■ .’ :■ ■ ' ,> ■
BhBBBHEBH pulley.
mOB I L E
mmmm . -t
LiM! 7 H D
47 SOUTH PARADE,
CAMPSIE, N.S.W.
Telephone; LF 4209
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE*
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
IS"*
CHAPTER XII
IN the cycle of Mrs. Kraft-
mann’s life most of the major
events were foreseeable; pre-
parations could be made for
them; strength could be
gathered for them ; money could
be laid aside if required ; human
relations could be adapted;
shearing, Christmas, conventions
of the church, marriages of
near - relations, births, even
deaths, when symptoms were so
significantly studied. '
All these events started as
something diminished in size by
their distance in the future, but
when they arrived in their full
stature they were met by a
woman thoroughly prepared.
But to Mrs. Kraftmann, recent
events had had the clanging and
clattering disorder of an ever-
mounting rubbish-tip. To her
something was lacking in the
drama of a telegram, for
instance, if it could not be an-
ticipated for days or weeks. “I
think we’ll get a telegram from
your Auntie Tilly before the end
of this week to say that Lola
has had her baby.” It was like
seeing the last act of a play with-
out knowing what had happened
in the first and second.
There was, it is true, a certain
amount of entertainment in
speculating on the circumstances
which gave rise to a telegram
arriving unexpectedly: “Arriv-
ing Tuesday by day train. Hope
all well. Vera.” Why was Vera
leaving her home again so soon
after her three weeks’ holiday?
Had she quarrelled with her
husband? What was the signifi-
cance of coming by the day
train when she usually used the
night train? Did it mean that
she was ill? Did the query
about their health have a bear-
ing on that?
So it went on interminably be-
tween Mrs. Kraftmann and
Rhoda. Every event was boned
and filleted, masticated and
digested; every motive, every
aspect of behavior was sorted-
out and catalogued.
But recently there had been a
surfeit of dramatic events;
some quite cataclysmic, some
most distressing, and all wasted
in the critical sense because they
could not discuss them ade-
quately with each other. Like
the letter from Viki,
The letter was for Alec,
addressed in Viki’s unmistak-
able dramatic handwriting, with
urgent printed at the top and,
as an afterthought underneath it,
PRIVATE.
It was obvious to Rhoda and
her mother, under whose eyes
it lay on the vestibule-table for
half a day, that the private had
been added because Viki would
very well know what a tempta-
tion to them a letter marked
urgent would be.
Mrs. Kraftmann sent Rhoda
to have her after-lunch rest
early; then, with no one to see
her, she steamed the letter open
with a completely justifiable
sense of duty, because a well-
meaning mother had a right as
well as a need to know what her
children were plotting in a crisis
such as this.
Rhoda rose early from her
rest to be sure to have time to
open, read and reseal the letter
before her mother rose from her
siesta.
Each of them was shocked to
find that Viki knew everything.
They were shocked because,
though each knew that the other
had written to Viki, and through
their habitual and quite innocent
surveillance of the family post
each knew that no one else in
the family had, the contents of
Viki’s letter revealed that de-
ception had been going on. As
usual, when something important
had happened in the family,
they had both written to Viki
about it; but, also as usual, they
had gone into a careful consul-
tation about how much was to
be told first.
This was not only to keep
Viki at a disadvantage and
therefore dependent on them,
but a precaution in case either
of their letters came open in
the post and someone in the
postal department read them.
Each fell to suspecting the
other of breach of confidence,
but their discussion was limited
by a long tradition of never de-
liberately hurting the feelings of
the other; by a fear of endan-
gering the delicate confidence
which existed between them
when they were alone in the
house.
It was only after Alec had
read his letter and discussed it
with each of them that it be-
came evident that someone else
had written to Viki, and that
other person, Alec guessed,
could only be Breyley. Immedi-
ately Mrs. Kraftmann and
Rhoda began to smile on each
other again, though secretively,
because there was so much be-
tween them that must not be
betrayed, even to Alec.
But soon Rhoda was seized
with a terrible fear and a
jealousy of her sister, who had
so many devices for getting men
interested in her. And immedi-
ately her mother, perceiving all
that was going on in Rhoda’s
mind, started to chatter. Brey-
ley, she said, regarded it as his
duty to tell the same amount to
each of the shareholders. She
even invented an incident in
which a young accountant
nephew had told her that all
accountants were obliged to take
an oath to reveal oil informa-
tion about companies to all
shareholders.
Rhoda naturally knew that
this was a fabrication, but she
didn’t let her mother suspect
that she didn’t believe it, nor
did she wish her mother to think
that she was unconsoled by the
information. She put on a more
cheerful demeanor for a while.
Her mother was not deceived by
the forced cheerfulness, but she,
in her turn, put on an appearance
of happiness, to make Rhoda
think that she was rejoicing in
her improved spirits,
Presently Rhoda, oppressed
by the need to see Breyley about
this development, and about get-
ting her father’s books returned,
too, said :
“I think I ought to go to
town. I want some buttons for
this frock I’m making, and some
things need taking to the dry-
cleaner.”
The triviality of these errands
made it clear to Mrs. Kraftmann
that not only did Rhoda want
to go in to see Breyley but she
wanted her mother’s advice on
whether it would be a wise
thing to do.
“I think it would be best to go
to town,” she said. “It’s always
better to talk these difficult
things over and be sure of get-
ting the right buttons.”
Rhoda nodded gratefully.
“I think I’ll go to town, too,”
her mother added. “I want to
change that pair of gloves I got
last Friday. They don’t really
match my grey costume, after
all.”
Rhoda was grateful again. It
meant that they could take the
family car without any questions
being asked. Had she gone on
her own she would have had
either to ask Alec for the loan
of his roadster or find if anyone
was using the utility; failing
either of these, to get permis-
sion from her father to use the
big car.
For some reason or other this
always became a most abject
application. First he wanted to
know why she wanted to go to
town ; why her business couldn’t
wait till the regular shopping
day; what made her think it so
important that it justified using
the large car to drive ten miles
in and ten miles out again.
Breyley waved aside the matter
of the books. He had much
more important things to dis-
cuss with her first. He pressed
her hand lingeringly; he put her
into a comfortable chair with
the utmost gallantry; and
squeezed her shoulder with an
intimacy which seemed to Rhoda
to be the extreme familiarity
permissible in an office where
only glass partitions separated
them from the next enclosure,
and where the door might be
pushed open any moment.
Breyley sat down in his own
chair, leaned back into a posi-
tion where his glasses flashed
most domineeringly into his
client’s eyes, and said with a
triumphant animation:
“I found out all I needed from
his bank. Nice piece of bluff;
even if I say so myself. Walked
in with his books under my
arms, demanded to see the
manager forthwith, and let him
jump to the conclusion that the
whole thing was being done at
your father’s instructions and
that his utmost co-operation was
desired by the same person.”
He paused to let Rhoda ad-
mire him. But she gave him a
rather wry smile. Even though
she was at war with her father,
she still hated to see anyone else
disparaging him- or triumphing
over him.
“Had a good look at all his
accounts, as far back as I
wanted. It’s been going on for
so long that the taxation people
must have mislaid his file. If
we handle this the right way we
can do anything we like with
him.”
Rhoda gave him another
forced smile. When she had
first reached so delightfully inti-
mate a stage with Breyley that
she could talk about the injus-
tices she suffered at her father’s
hands, this was the state of
affairs they had envisaged as
perfectly heavenly; them crack-
ing the whip over her father.
So she felt obliged to smile,
even (hough the actuality was
not nearly so sweet as she had
imagined it would be.
“To put it briefly,” Breyley
went on, appearing so happy
about it that he would talk for
hours, “he is in an impossible
position whichever way he turns.
Say he decides to make an
honest man of himself and pay
the dividends in full, he can’t
possibly raise the money to do
it because it’s been going on so
long.
“Say he claims that the money
was retained within the com-
pany with the shareholders’
consent, then he’d be up for
falsifying his books and failing
to pay income tax on large
amounts of undistributed profit
—that would cost him a pile!
Say he claims he kept it himself
for personal use with or without
the consent of the share-
holders” —
Rhoda interrupted him. She
felt Breyley was inventing
puerile pleas with the object of
ridiculing her father, not know-
ing that in the law-courts much
more specious pleas are made,
often successfully.
“Say he says,” said Rhoda,
now faintly hostile, “that the
shareholders really got their
money?”
Breyley jerked himself up-
right and grew menacing.
“That would be a pretty diffi-
cult thing to prove when he
hadn’t done it,”
“Say the shareholders,” Rhoda
went on, hesitating and blushing
at her temerity in stepping out
into the jungle of legal and
accountancy jargon, “make
declarations that they received
their dividends?”
Breyley fieaned forward, quite
unable to regard it as a hypo-
thetical statement. Then he sat
back again and laughed heartily,
obviously extremely pleased
with a rare capacity in himself ;
he was a businessman who could
laugh at a joke involving money.
“That would be a rich one” —
he stopped to chuckle, “Not
only would they be taking the
risks involved in making a false
declaration ; they’d be jeopardis-
ing their chances of ever getting
their rights ; and what is richest
of all” —this time he had to
laugh aloud again—“they’d have
to pay piles of arrears of income
tax on money they’d never re-
ceived.” He sat up again to
stare at Rhoda’s face. “Surely
you weren’t thinking of doing
that!” he accused her.
“No, no,” she assured him
despondently. “I was just think-
ing of what a mess the family’s
affairs had got into.”
Breyley leaned over his desk,
screwed up his eyes most calcu-
latingly and watched the effect
as he dropped each nicely
weighed and considered word,
“The bigger the mess, the
better it could be for us if we
play our cards right. If I judge
your father correctly, he’s not
the man to relish fighting it out
in the courts when he’s in such
a bad position. So I’m putting
this proposition to you. If we
work together we can get con-
trol of the company.
“With things in the mess they
are it wouldn’t be hard to panic
the other shareholders into
selling-out cheap, and I can get
some backing to buy-up the
shares, because, when all’s said
and done, there’s a splendid
property there for anyone who
has the brains to clean-up the
actuarial mess. The first step
would be to get me appointed
finance-manager. You could
force that by insisting on a
public showdown if it wasn’t
granted. After I get in as
manager getting complete con-
trol would only be a matter of
time.”
Glowing with excitement, he
held both hands out to her sud-
denly, as though making her a
proposal of marriage.
“What do you think of it?
Shall we do it?”
(Jo be continued)


'em
FINE PARTICLE POWDER
For the first time on the world market-a
fine particle dispersable powder is
available as
SUPERFINE
PHEMOVIS’
POWDER
Finely Ground, at least 80%
Very Fine Particles.
Cheaper.
Easy to mix.
Remains suspended.
Free flowing.
»rw
?*T Iflt
The Most Efficient Drench for WORMS IN SHEEP
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
PHE.29X.705.
FORMER SOVIET OFFICIAL
WARNS AGAINST “PEACE
ILLUSIONS”
Igor Bogolepov served the Soviet
Foreign Office for nearly twenty
years before escaping to the West.
His positions included those of
counsellor of the Foreign Office and
a member of Soviet delegations to
various international conferences.
Igor Bogolepov is well qualified to
deal with the "peaceful co-existence”
tactics of the Communist leaders.
In the current issue of the League
of Bights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY an article by Bogolepov
warns against present “peace illu-
sions” and shows how they are part
of the Communist conspiracy. This
important article should be carefully
studied by all those desirous of
understanding Communist tactics.
The current issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY also provides other
factual reports and comment essen-
tial for Christian patriots.
Single issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY. 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
(Non-party, non-sectarian )
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Ipiwgtj
gteuart
From
25/-
65/-
£
%
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LTDLIONDOM
CUAKD^
Os /
PROTECTA
■ fej(
Suitable for r»ery Irpe of bnilnf** •• rrcorda
•II Sale*. Credit*. Payout. etc. Strongly bnllt,
pleasing In appearance. Send for * ull details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents— r .
UELBOURNE .. Nonnan Broa. Vty. uw.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon * Son* Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book do. (Au«t.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WELFARE STATE AND EMPIRE
The observations quoted here
from London “Time and Tide”
on the British Welfare State and
the contracting line of Empire
(B. 22/9/’54) evoked a good
deal of correspondence and
comment from Bulletin
readers; one of them sub-
mitted, as a commentary, the
following points from the
address of the chairman, J. Gib-
son Jarvie, to the annual general
meeting in London of the United
Dominions Trust, Ltd.
“I find it difficult to under-
stand why successive [British]
Governments are so lukewarm
about the Empire. Without the
Empire we are nothing—an over-
crowded island almost entirely
dependent on other countries,
even for our food. With the
Empire we could be the most
powerful combination in the
world, but political parties do
not appear to see that possi-
bility and have connived at the
Empire’s dismemberment.
“The Socialists openly an-
nounced their intention of
liquidating it. The Tory Prime
Minister merely paid lip-service
when he declared he would not
preside over its liquidation. To
our eternal shame we lost
Burma and India. And now
Suez and the Sudan?
“The Dominions, however,
will live and prosper even if the
Empire, as an Empire, dies.
Those young countries, with a
virile population, endless natural
wealth and empty land, must
forge ahead. Were we as a com-
pany to lose money for a time
in our overseas companies it
would cause me no worry. Al-
though actually we are making
money in our Dominion sub-
sidiaries, we are taking the long
view and not grasping at profits.
It is our intention, in fact, so
far as we can, to leave the profits
there —to build for the future,
knowing ourselves fortunate in
the possession of a foothold and
assets in Empire countries
which are growing stronger and
richer every day. And common
prudence demands that we
spread our risk instead of retain-
ing all our capital in this tax-
ridden old country.
“It was Empire - building
which made Britain a great
Power —in its heyday the
greatest in the world —but the
Empire, as an Empire, now
appeals only to relatively few.
Many politicians, whatever their
party, either dislike the idea of
Empire or are indifferent. To
them it is scarcely worth keep-
ing ; they take the view that we
must not risk offending anyone
by hanging on to it!
“Have our political leaders
forgotten our history? Have
they forgotten what went into
creating the Empire and what
it has meant to us? Have they
considered the Empire at all,
even from self-interest —our
own economy, our survival?
There never has beeq any live
drive in this country for Empire
development since the days of
Joseph Chamberlain. There has
been an occasional voice crying
in the wilderness, but there has
been no concerted upsurge of
faith in the Empire or any
attempt to make it a greater
reality, ( I ignore, of course, the
fatuous groundnuts scheme and
similar bureaucratic adventures.
Cannot our political parties see
where we are drifting?”
♦ ♦ *
“Instead of a strong Empire,
growing ever stronger through
emigration from these over-
crowded islands, emigration is
discouraged by the bureaucracy
and by that sorry thing, the Wel-
fare State. A practical plan for
Empire development produced
towards the end of the war was
shelved at birth. It was never
even considered at a high level.
It was rejected by a civil ser-
London "Daily Mail"
SONG OF THE NILE
Illingworth’s comment on the opening of a London office by the
Egyptian Tourist Department.
vant, one of the bosses of the
Welfare State.
“And what, in truth, is this
Welfare State? It is government
by an autocratic and all-power-
ful bureaucracy, bolstered-up by
the worst form of trade-union-
ism. The Ministers of the Gov-
ernment themselves no longer
possess the power pertaining to
their offices, or, to a disturbing
extent, they fail to exercise it.
Too often they are merely the
puppets and spokesmen of
others. Whether or not we are
prepared to admit it, the Wel-
fare State is only one short step
from Communism, dictatorship
by the bureaucracy and a spine-
less population—sponging on
the State.
“If you have any doubts on
the subject, just consider the
extent to which social services
have grown and their effect on
the character of the people.
Once on a time our youth
sought opportunities for ad-
vancement. They wanted a
career. Too many of them to-
day desire only a job, ease, no
responsibility, a pension.
security! Consider also the
many reported instances of high-
handed bureaucratic injustice—
and they are only a fraction of
the total number. Some are
fresh in our memories—Crichel
Down, for instance.
“Think of the regulations and
restrictions imposed on us for
the purposes of war, which are
still preserved solely for the
benefit, it would seem, of the
bureaucracy. Think of the
power of the bureaucratic
planners. Think of the frus-
tration which every business-
man has been suffering since the
war. The Government claims
to have freed us from many con-
trols and to be concerned with
disposing of more. And how
much effect has that had on the
size of the bureaucracy? Prac-
tically none at all.
“The mass of bureaucracy in
all its grotesque strength, by its
interference with physical out-
put and its cost in onerous taxa-
tion, continues to sap the very
blood of the nation and of the
industry and commerce by
which we—and the bureaucrats
themselves—live.”
• « •
“Were Government expendi-
ture reduced and taxation cut,
and were all men to give a fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay,
costs would come crashing down
and the cost of living would fall.
Profits could then come down
and still leave companies better
off with a higher net return. But
that is not Government policy.
This is the Welfare State. We
are living in the artificial pre-
sent ; and we are spending our
capital!
“The Welfare State does not
justify the meaning the words
imply—it is a calculated means
of softening the character of the
people, inculcating in their
minds dependence instead of the
urge of self-reliance and—don’t
overlook this —it is destroying
our substance. What a mockery
of the grandest heritage that ever
came down to a people! Short
hours, easy work, holidays, pen-
sions, relief from all responsi-
bility—absolute dependence on
the State! The Welfare State —
the age of the common man!
“We can’t go on in this way.
We must get back to the charac-
teristics which alone will ensure
our survival. We must think
more of the uncommon man on
whom progress depends.”
• * •
“Is this [British] Government
too out of sympathy with the
idea that a man should be en-
titled to keep a fair share of the
reward which his brain and
energy could earn? And that
he should stand on his own feet?
Or is it perhaps the vote-catch-
ing nightmare which frightens
them from declaring frankly
that men with outstanding abili-
ties should be paid to use them?
And that sheer dependence on
the State by the less worthy
should be sternly discouraged?”
♦ * *
“It is claimed that through
taxation there has been a redis-
tribution of wealth: that there
is greater equality and full em-
ployment. What man worthy of
the name desires equality? It
is only the failures and incom-
petents who seek equality. In
any case, why delude ourselves
that we have full employment
when it is only achieved by
carrying idle people and slackers
on the payrolls?”
• * *
“It should never be forgotten
that practically every one of our
biggest and most successful
business enterprises began as a
small family concern. I doubt
if there are more than a few
exceptions.
“As it is with our personal
fortunes and family businesses,
so it is with the Empire. I ask
you, when is this dissipation of
assets, personal and national, to
end? That is a question which
demands an answer, and we
should bend every effort to get
the answer and to do something
toward saving what is still left to
us; toward restoring our faith
and belief in ourselves and in
the Empire; toward regaining
our national pride—the proper
pride of self-reliant men and
women retaining some gratitude
to our forebears for their
example and for what they
created for our benefit.
“Meaning must be restored to
Magna Carta. The bureaucrats
must be deprived of their power


Now Australia gets
P
j
m
P
(At the former Plume
An Entirely new kind of
I Gasoline —the only Gasoline 1
DOUBLE
POWERED
with
Mobil Power
Compound
The most powerful combination of chemical additives
over put into a gasoline to step-up engine performance.
most powerful combinatioi
put into a gasoline to step-
The
6
CP
hilg
m
J
i
Vobi/gtS
Mobil p
r QWet Co
** *®*f r* ** ' fe,e b, " ef,s - •
ever put into a gasoline to step-up engine performance. 9 u *Hing an , «... ~ c ° r i>i/r e/ . e fW
> eJUf ,? C ’ Or fi* -*££’ *• 4
■ ■ - ' 9n ' tio *- Out o r f espon *bl e f 9lo *‘ c “fs k ' tchef ' ref^ 01 (s °
HmhACl ° fenJ m ° n y c 6„ f P'* /c/ no °* SlJ Pply of footer
Anti-Knock 5^5??
for maximum knock-proof power-the result of research m ~.J*''£CTS Co/in. °b>lga s 'bl e p 6 >Cln 9 adH: i C>t ° n °f
- -
c£■**» * .pTr *•? -*
sSwits—...
for maximum knock-proof powi
in the world’s greatest labor,
vanced refining developments.
"QQs.
Mobf/g! n 9 highest bigf , _ Of Q yy
*L* nti *-ck • /o *. te/Tj
Vo bi , .
prof ecti oa ':°*er f 0
Buy Mobilgas at the sign of the Flying Red Horse
and their numbers ruthlessly
reduced. They must be re-
strained from perpetuating their
jobs by finding new ways and
means of harrying us and
destroying what more useful
people are building. Were
greater effort and ingenuity
given to cutting taxation instead
of seeking new sources of
revenue we might afford their
cost.
“The Government and the
Treasury must keep a keen eye
on the spending departments.
There must be drastic limitations
of the schemes under which far
too many of our population are
today living wholly or partly on
what, in happier days, would
have been regarded as charity
under the Poor Laws —the ulti-
mate disgrace of the poor, to be
avoided at all costs. Even in t,he
Welfare State the nation’s coat
must be cut according to the
nation’s cloth.”
Middle East Tensions
Commenting on Arab-Israel
friction, London “Economist”
notes that it “must remain diffi-
cult to visualise any dramatic
sweeping-away of Arab sus-
picions of the West while the
issues between Israel and its im-
mediate neighbors are kept so
painfully alive by frontier fric-
tions.”
On the same subject “Man-
chester Guardian” adds that
Arab representations suggest
“that the best way of remedy-
ing evils is for the West to
strengthen and arm the
60,000,000 Arabs so as to make
them less vulnerable to the
Israelis (who number 1,500,000).
Surely there is a much simpler
way. If the situation between
Israel and the Arab States is so
dangerous, would not the best
course be for them to hammer
out their differences at a peace
conference?”
To which London “Daily
Mail,” recalling a little recent
history, adds in editorial com-
ment: —
“In 1948, after much trouble
and strife from the Palestine
Jews, we [Britain] got out. We
withdrew our 84,000 troops. The
Israelis celebrated their nation-
hood by beating the Egyptians
in battle, expelling 300,000
Arabs, who have been living in
abject misery ever since, and
shooting down five British pilots
who were patrolling over Egypt.
“Now Chapter 11. The Egyp-
tians wanted the same thing as
the Jews, They wanted the
British out. They, like the Jews,
were on our side during the war,
but turned nasty when it was
over.
“We had 80,000 troops in the
Canal Zone. Now we are with-
drawing them. One would think
the Israelis would rejoice with
the Egyptians at casting off
‘wicked British Imperialism.’
“But not at all. The Israelis
are raising loud cries of resent-
ment against Britain for march-
ing out of Egypt. They demand
arms ‘to balance the advantages
gained by Egypt from Britain’s
evacuation.’
“It seems that that brutal
slavedriver John Bull had his
uses after all,
“We remember a Mr. Ben
Hecht in America saying he had
a song in his heart every time a
British soldier was killed in
Palestine. We wonder if his
heart would sing an oratorio to
have a few of them back again.”
Malaya
Observing that Malaya’s
income from tin and rubber has
fallen considerably from the high
levels of three years ago, London
“Financial Times” points out
that “there is no simple way out
of the dilemma: If taxes were to
be reduced by any useful amount
the Budget deficit would inevit-
ably be increased. If they are
kept at their present levels then
Malaya’s commodity industries
will be deprived of the capital
that is urgently needed for
exploration and replanting.
Undoubtedly any rebates that
could be given on expenditures
for increasing production and
reducing costs would be very
useful.
“If the military position con-
tinues to improve, and if the
prices of tin and rubber remain
reasonably firm, this type of tax-
reduction might well be
possible ; it does after all increase
and strengthen the revenue base
on which future expenditures
can be met.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Work for the Aged
Retirement at 60 or 65 may be a social
reform, but to thousands it has meant
nothing but frustration, a sudden halt to
the social links of the workaday world
and a battle to make both ends meet.
The factory staffed by pensioners in
England (B. 6/10/’54) is not unique.
Perhaps one of the best examples of
keeping the Australian pensioner active
and happy in his retirement has come
from Melbourne’s unorthodox cleric.
Father G. Kennedy Tucker, whose
Brotherhood of St. Laurence settlement
at Carrum Downs has proved old people
can live happy, productive lives.
He runs a settlement on the simple
principle that old people must have an
interest in life, and work is one that is
generally popular.
There, in bush surroundings only four
miles inland from Frankston Beach,
several hundred old people do a variety
of jobs, all making money for themselves
and the settlement, which is run on the
co-operative system. A 77-year-old
widow runs a store, even to keeping the
books at night; another is the settlement’s
jam-maker (the jam, with many other
products, is sold to passing motorists).
One old man of 73, a retired nurseryman,
still runs a small shrubbery, and these,
too, are sold in the store. Every old per-
son at Carrum Downs is doing something
useful earning themselves a few bob but,
more important, keeping themselves
happy and killing the boredom. The
settlement even runs its own hospital.
Father Tucker (he’s C. of E.) has a very
heavy waiting-list from people wanting
to live at Carrum Downs. He claims his
experiment should be taken up on either
a State or national basis.
In the past year I have twice been with
Father Tucker, first with the old people
at the co-operative settlement, then among
other old folk he cares for in the inner
industrial slum-suburb of Filzroy. The
former are happy, active, contented and
pleasant; the latter just making the most
of life despite the Brotherhood of St.
Laurence’s help.
Australians can no longer afford this
increasing unemployed army of pen-
"I know the answer as well as anything , but I can't think of it
at the moment .”
sioners, most of whom would like to be
doing something better than reading
books, sipping cups of tea or puffing at
their pipes. If the Australian Govern-
ment made a survey of this growing
problem no doubt much the same story
would be told as from the recent British
investigation.
The British Government appointed a
national advisory committee on the
employment of older men and women.
Only last year this committee found
people entering work later, living longer
and many wishing to work longer. It
found, too, this vast army of unemployed
was growing steadily each year. This
extract from the report is probably as
applicable here as in Britain:
All men and women employed in indus-
try, commerce, the professions or elsewhere,
who can give effective service, either in
their normal work or on alternative work
which their employers can make available,
should be given the opportunity, without
regard to age, to continue at work if they
so wish.
Fifty years ago one Australian in 30
was over 65. At the 1947 census the pro-
portion had risen to one in 13, and no
doubt the recent census has shown
another rise.
These are the people who could and
should be usefully employed should they
so desire. The latest census could indicate
how many people we have in this vast
army of unemployed. This is a national
problem which should command the
urgent attention of the Government.
Father Tucker has proved these old folk
can be usefully employed and live
happier lives in their twilight years, but
the lead must now come from the
Government. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Commonwealth Literary Fund
The Commonwealth Literary Fund was
established with the best of intentions.
The original concept was to pay pensions
to notable writers in their declining years
and to sponsor the publication of works
of literary merit.
Generally speaking, the results have
been disappointing. A large slice of the
£16,000 annual grant has gone in paying
those pensions; more of it has gone in
paying people to give lectures on Aus-
tralian literature ; and the remainder has
been spent on paying Fellowship grants
of £6OO apiece to a few writers each
year.
In theory, those grants were a good
idea. Freed from financial worries, the
writers thus subsidised would be able to
devote their full time to writing a book
on an approved theme. In practice, most
of the grants were thrown away; quite a
number of these subsidised writers have
either turned in a work not worth
publishing, or have forwarded nothing
at all.
Further, in the past the Advisory
Committee has shown a marked leaning in
favor of those who wrote with a Leftist
outlook. On the other hand, some good
manuscripts, written without any form of
subsidy, have been rejected as “not
eligible for assistance” only to be
subsequently accepted by publishing
firms.
A typical case: In 1947 a leading
anthropologist and an established author
collaborated in writing a novel of which
the background is the saga of the
Polynesian exploration and colonisation
of the Pacific. Submitted to the C.L.F.,
it was returned as “not eligible for
assistance.” The authors dumped it in a
cupboard.
In 1953 they collaborated on a second
book, this time dealing with the coming
to Australia of our first aborigines. A
leading publisher accepted it on sight
and asked if the authors had anything
else of the type to offer.
The first manuscript was then rescued
from the cupboard, the publishers
immediately took an option over it and
submitted it to the Literature'Bureau of
the South Pacific Commission, which
reported that it was eager to sponsor a
“Try this flipper for size , ma’am.”
special edition for educated Pacific
Island natives to read.
Dr. Grenfell Price, the new chairman
of the C.L.F., is out to alter this sorry
state of affairs, but he faces a formidable
task. To help him, everyone interested
in Australian art and letters should write
to his representative in the Federal
Parliament, asking that every effort be
made to carry out the following reforms:
No more assistance to those who write
with a Communist or fellow-traveller
slant.
No further financial grants to those
who might write a good book. Reserve
the money for people who have produced
a book-length manuscript worthy of
publication.
Place all people who have earned a
literary pension on a Civil List, similar
to that of Britain, and pay their pensions
from general revenue.
Devote the remainder of that £16,000
annual grant to aiding the publication of
Australian books. —Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Road Accidents
Instead of the Government maintain-
ing a virtual department to coax road-
users to be sober, courteous, cautious and
speed-hating, wouldn’t the money be
better spent on increased police-patrols?
The “please-be-nice-drivers” line is a
waste of time and money. If I’m tempted
to exceed a speed-limit the one thing
that will curb me is the thought of a
police-patrol lurking at the next corner.
Give the police more facilities and
they’ll reduce death on the road. Give
them also an intelligent system for
driving-tests so that no-hopers who can’t
handle cars are not licensed.
As the road toll of lives rises our
administrators are becoming more and
more flummoxed. The latest move is a
reduction in speed-limits. In Victoria the
maximum speed on the open road is now
50 miles per hour. Yet statistics reveal
that the majority of accidents occur not
on the open road but in sections of
restricted speed, such as on bends and in
built-up areas. What’s the use of making
more restrictions that cannot be properly
policed?—B. N. (Tas.).
Victoria
The Victorian Legislative Assembly has
been dealing with unaudited accounts in
the Budget debate, although the Audit
Act expects, but does not specifically
demand, that members shall have the
report of the Auditor-General with the
Budget.
The A.-G.’s report is almost essential,
if members wish to discuss and under-
stand the matter in hand, but the House
will be lucky if the report is available by
December next.
The fault does not lie with the
Auditor-General; the delay is almost
routine, and in the past was roundly
condemned by the present Premier and
Treasurer, when in Opposition. But
why worry? ,A mere £lOO million is
involved. As J. Bloomfield, M.L.A.,
has commented: “During the debate,
Ministers drift in and out, and very few
private members remain in the Chamber
for any prolonged periods. The present
procedure would be illegal if followed
by a public company, and would not be
tolerated in a bowling-club.”
Standing Orders for the Legislative
Assembly require that, at the commence-
ment of every session, a Select Com-
mittee of seven members be formed to
keep the public accounts under constant
review. This regulation has, however,
been a dead-letter for many years.
But here’s the crowning touch. On
the day that Bloomfield’s criticisms were
published the newspapers carried front-
page headlines on the proposed pay-
rises for members of the Victorian
Parliament, ranging from £ll to £45 a
week. Such increases would raise the
salaries bill from an annual £168,000
to well over a quarter of a million.
And one reason advanced for the sug-
gested increase is the need for well
qualified men!
If the Victorian public will stand for
this they’ll take anything—and deserve
it. — Ceg (Vic.).
More Migrants Wanted
Calling for more migrants, A.C.T.U.
president Monk says Australia must be
“prepared to take a risk economically in
raising the present immigration-rate.”
Australia is, of course, already receiv-
ing large numbers of migrants. Last
month there left Germany for Australia
the 250,000 th European to come here
under the Inter-Governmental Committee
for European Migration, which began
operations in February, 1952. That figure
represepts about a third of net total
migration from 1947 till today, British
migrants included.
Most of the migrants Australia has
received are industrious, hard-working
and thrifty, and their acquisition cannot
but benefit Australia. We can do with
their brains, hands, energy and general
know-how. Many migrants are highly
skilled and professional men ; many, too,
have that cultural leavening which will
add to Australia’s intellectual status.
That “economic risk” listed by Monk
is negligible. On the contrary migrants
have enormously aided industrial expan-
sion. A visiting American journalist,
Howell Walker, said in Adelaide recently
that every businessman he had spoken to
had told him that, without migrant labor,
his business could not have expanded as
it had. Walker added that Australia
probably wouldn’t be changed in any way
by immigration—apart from the big push-
ahead it will get from migrants.
Inevitably, some migrants—an in-
finitely small proportion—have been
undesirable. Unfortunately the press
always distinguishes when a crime of
violence has been committed by a New
Australian. “Old” Australians commit the
same crimes, but the point is not labored.
It is instinctively planted in the public
mind that all migrants are potential
murderers there’s nothing more
ridiculous.
We want every possible migrant,
though only of the best type. But that’s
the type that, on the whole, we’ve been
getting.— Keima (Q.).


Save 20% on Canadian Pacific's
VANCOUVER
HflWfll
FIJI
AUCKLAND
r /*
n*-
*V •
\ SYDNEY
Sprin«
TOURIST SERVICES
Fly the new economy
way to North America. Fast,
spacious DC-6B aircraft on the
Pacific route cut travel time.
Luxury class service,
too, on all flights.
Enjoy 18] hours 1 stopover in a
Waikiki Beach luxury hotel—an
exclusive privilege for Canadian
Pacific through-passengers.
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents for
Canadian Pacific), or your local travel agent.
CanadUm (Paeijie
AIRLINES
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
THE 4 OVEN
AG A
-«■ Jiegd- Trade Hark
COOKER
has a special oven for
every cooking purpose:
ROASTING...
BAKING...
SIMMERING...
and WARMING
. :
Gt/
A t * 4 nr e b
/** y/ * ■
fault,. Y * A c
fait
0
* A h s
n7 tarial '
But » la a* .
-)c The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
This sparkling and spacious Cooker
enables you to cook everything at once:
roast a joint, bake a cake, simmer
sauces, heat soups, cook vegetables and
warm plates, all at the same time!
The Aga Model E has three hotplates,
too, in addition to the four automatic-
ally adjusted ovens. Meals are prepared
almost without attention. There is no
fuss, no bother with Aga, no waiting
for ovens to heat, no constant stoking!
Service is immediate, day and night,
for the Aga burns continuously. There
are no fires to light, no smoke, no
fumes, and a rub-over with a clean,
damp cloth keeps the Aga’s shining
vitreous enamel immaculate.
The Aga is the world’s most economi-
cal Cooker, too! Thermostatic control
ensures that no matter how much or
how long you cook, you cannot exceed
the modest maximum amount specified
by guarantee.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Solo Australian Agents for Aga Cooker
and Bendix Home Washer
780
POST TO DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., P;rth
Kimberley Paintings
Most ethnologists now regard the dis-
tinctive cave paintings of the Kimberleys
as being a local development of aborigi-
nal art, with very little chance that any
foreign influence lies behind them (B.
29/9/’54).
The theory that the signs painted above
one figure are characters in the Turanian
(not Turunian) script of old Japan has
been knocked out by the people best
qualified to judge—Japanese scientists
who specialise in the study of the original
writing characters of their people.
Others have tried to see in these marks
some resemblance to Sumatran script,
but the shape of the marks is so indefinite
that one might imagine them to be crude
attempts to copy almost any script. Prob-
ably they meant something to only one
person—the aboriginal artist who drew
them.
One thing is quite certain; this type
of art-work does not belong to some far-
off culture period. When Dr. J. B.
Birdsell and Norman Tindale visited the
Kimberleys last year they gave many
natives sheets of paper, some colored
crayons and invited them to give a sample
of the work of their people.
Most of the figures drawn were of
exactly the same type as the ones first
recorded by Sir George Grey. The haloes
around the heads were described as repre-
senting thunder, lightning and rain, but
beyond that there seemed to be little
meaning attached to the figures.—
Archaen (S.A.).
The Depression
The “Red Page” review of Coast to
Coast, 1953-54 (B. 8/9/’54) mentions
“the vultures” who hope for another
depression so that “human misery may
again have a literary- and platform-
value.”
Depression-mongers are still fairly
common. Every factory and office has a
few. Some are merely bigoted Leftists
who are convinced that their Socialist
dogmas are infallible, and that a
capitalist-based prosperity can only be
the prelude to collapse. The longer we
go without a depression, they argue, the
nearer we must be to one. This peculiar
logic makes them right all the time. They
console themselves for the long delay by
remarking that when it comes it will be a
beauty.
They are very shrewd and observant,
these chaps; not easily taken in. They
pierce deep beneath the shallow veneer
of it all. They understand what is
happening in Wall-street and can analyse
the wool-market in a few swift words
over morning-tea. They nod their heads
at the Canadian wheat crisis, and imply
that you could not have been listening to
them if you did not know that this was
going to happen.
More human and much more genuine
among the prophets of disaster are the
ones who were really hit by the depres-
sion. Among these are the men who left
school in the worst years and spent most
of their youth chasing jobs; or those
who were half-way through raising a
family when the crash came and were
“ I'd like a disguise .”
never in steady work again until World
War 11.
There is a battler or two of this kind
in a quiet corner of most firms. They
joined it 10 to 15 years ago when better
times came and once they got a good
job they hung on to it. They are more
or less contented now, but they still have
the old cyncism—a depression will come ;
they are certain of that. “But I’ll be
snug this time. Paid-off most of the
house, Got all my furniture. I can
get through.”
They have spent the years of pros-
perity building an ark against another
deluge. The missus is working and every-
one else in the house who can hobble or
crawl out the door. They are after the
cash while it lasts. They do not want
to see other people hurt just to prove
their theories correct —unlike some of
the conventional Leftists —but the
depression made such a bruise that they
cannot believe that it will not happen
again. It is a mark of honor in these
circles to have gone through the depres-
sion. Before you can be taken seriously
on the deeper issues of economics and
politics the first point to be satisfied is:
“Did you go through the depression?
No? Well, 7 did!” And there is not
much hope of arguing against the dead-
weight of that experience.
Well, it might sound rather humorous
now, but the “susso” and relief-camps
and the evictions and charity soup-
kitchens were no joke, A common
sight then were young chaps wearing
official handouts of faded Army jackets
and old bell-bottoms at an age when
today’s youth flaunts a bright Yankee-
style jacket and a tie with a picture of a
football-star painted on it and has a
pocket filled with fivers. And many an
older man sits back now, his children
grown and in good jobs, who went
through a hell of fear and worry in
bringing those children up.
So deep was the impression left on
Australia by the depression that it can
almost be called a racial memory. The
reason may be that we thought ourselves
young, strong and rich, yet went down
before the depression as easily as the
worn-out older nations.
Certain political parties still capitalise
on the depression. They know the
ancient grudges and fears are still there.
The Communists, of course, work
throughout the Western world for depres-
sion and watch for signs of it as eagerly
as farmers look for rain. To gain power,
the Communists will do their utmost to
plunge the workers they claim to repre-
sent into the deepest and cruellest misery.
They have risen to power elsewhere by
exploiting human misery and they hope
to do the same here.
But the Communist theory that they
can only benefit from depression may be
wrong. If we get another depression,
the Communists, because of their
constant sabotage and subversion, may
find themselves blamed for it. They have
been treated with typical Australian
casualness in these easy times, but if bad
times come again they could mean the
day of reckoning for the Reds.
It’s unlikely, however, that there will
ever be another big depression. Not in
this country, anyway, witfi a century of
development ahead of it. — Mabsout
(Vic.).
Australian Wines
“G. Elburg” implies (B. 29/9/’54) that
he has not found any Australian sherries
which compare favorably with the dry
sherry of Spain. There are at least half
a dozen fino and pale dry flor sherries on
the Australian market which compare
more than favorably with the Spanish
and are better than some of the “popular”
Spanish wines.
C. R. Mackay, London representative
of the Australian Wine Board, lately
returned from a tour of Spanish and
Portuguese vineyards and remarked that
Australian fino —dry and pale—sherries
compared favorably with Spanish sherries
of that type.
He added that he thought Australian
producers were a “little impatient” in
their production of heavier-type sherries ;
“heavier Spanish sherries have an enor-
mous amount of delightful character.
Spanish growers take seven or eight years
to evolve these wines. Most of our [Aus-
tralian] wine-men try to market the
sherry much earlier.” — John Seppelt
(S.A.).


No Flies on m e \
*-< V ■* *
$
Like all lambs I'm a real fly-hater,
So my joy's growing greater and greater
Since I heard the good news
No knife will they use,
Pll be marked and tailed by Elastrator.
The use of "Elastrator" Rings for marking and tailing plays
an important part in preventing fly-strike. No cutting is in-
volved so there are no wounds to attract flies
Because set-back, also, is avoided lamb losses are pract-
ically eliminated.
Elastrator Instrument .. .. £4/4A, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) .. .. 30/-. plus freight
Elastrator Loader £5/5/-, plus freight
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
. . For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia —a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
COVENTRY CLIMAX
Industrial Engine Unit
m
4 Cyl. Petrol Engine,
governed range 2000-
2400 r.p.m. develops
approx. 12 h.p., water-
cooled with radiator and
fan, impulse magneto.
Complete with tools,
spares and instruction
book— £l 2O.
We have one of these in
stock built into a portable
2in. Centrifugal pumping
unit suitable for fire-
fighting purposes or
agricultural spraying—
£lBo.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or
agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road, Newtown, Sydney. LA3597.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
RIVERINA FARMING
nrHE Riverina is one of the few
A parts of N.S.W. with a
euphonious and widely known
place - name; not called
merely by a geographical desig-
nation for the convenience of
weather reports. This would
seem to indicate a certain amount
of regional pride.
The fact is that the Riverina is
so large, comprising as it does
the basin drained by the
Murrumbidgee and the Murray
Rivers, that it has three fairly
well-defined areas, each with its
own subregional pride. There is
the eastern section, of which
Holbrook is typical, with its
generous and regular rainfall, its
lovely parklike grazing-lands and
improved- or sown-pasture
system. There is the drier
western plain, the healthiest
sheep-country in the world, with
some of Australia’s most famous
sheep-stations, the best-known
studs, and, reputedly, the most
luxurious station homesteads.
Despite all this, however, it must
be admitted that it has long been
the custom of those living in the
eastern and central sections to
freely link two of the western
centres in the trio. Hay, Hell and
Booligal.
The centre contains the wheat-
belt, and, according to its
inhabitants, has the advantages
enjoyed by both the other areas
and the disadvantages of neither.
It is certainly true that in the
early days many settlers moved
by choice from what they called
the “sour country” round
A 1 bury to the “sweet” lands
round Junee and Temora, and
were well pleased with themselves
for a number of years. Right up
to the disastrous fall in wheat
prices in the early ’thirties, in
fact, when wheatgrowing became
a ruinous occupation.
During the next 10 years, as
the Riverina struggled to get out
of the depression; while a good
deal of the friable soil of the
western section, remarked upon
so favorably by Tom Collins in
Such Is Life, was trampled into
dust by the sheep and blown
away; and the centre, generally
speaking, continued to grow
wheat because its farmers
couldn’t think of anything else
to do —the east made an epochal
discovery. This was that a
generous topdressing of super-
phosphate on its “sour” lands
produced a very much improved
pasture, while they only needed
to sprinkle subterranean-clover
seed on the topdressed land, and
it grew marvellously. The grati-
fication of the easterners over a
system which doubled and even
trebled their stock-carrying
capacity, and greatly enhanced
the value of their properties, can
readily be imagined, especially
when, for the first time in the
history of the Riverina, they
could boast that they were build-
ing up the fertility of their soil,
instead of exploiting their land ;
as those in the centre and the
west continued to do.
The attempts made at this time
to carry the eastern system into
the lower-rainfall areas of the
wheatbelt met with very dis-
couraging results. There was no
success except, briefly, in rare,
abnormally wet seasons, and on
favorable soils and situations.
Generally the wheatgrowing
went on until, at the beginning
of the Second World War, much
of the wheatland, becoming
depleted of nitrogen and humus,
became hard and resistant to
cultivation. Its capacity to
absorb moisture was reduced and
signs of water-erosion were
plainly evident. Pessimists began
to say that it was doomed to
become like the North African
deserts, once known as “the
granary of Europe,” now only
fit to be Europe’s battleground.
Presently the establishment of a
large number of R.A.A.F.
aerodromes in the area (because
of the suitable terrain and good
conditions for training young
fliers) and some Army camps
lent a promise of reality to the
forecasts.
During the last 10 years, how-
ever, there has been a most
noticeable improvement in land-
management in this area. Not,
one must admit, from any change
of heart, or awakening of con-
science in the landowners, but
from the pressure of circum-
stances.
The first of these was the loss
of rural manpower during the
war, and the drift to the cities
after it. Wheatgrowing needs
large numbers of strong,
vigorous, single-minded and (in
this machine-age) reasonably
alert young men, and when this
type leave the land wheatfarm-
ing is inevitably reduced. The
second was the invasion of
skeleton-weed, which infested the
wheatbelt with alarming sudden-
ness, and particularly land which
had been heavily cropped with
wheat.
Owing to skeleton-weed’s
deep-rooting habit, it was impos-
sible to eradicate it like other
Wheatland weeds, by cultivation.
Its light, winged seeds were
rapidly dispersed over wide
areas, and where it became well
established, which was always on
the loamy soils most suitable for
wheat, the chance of growing
good crops of wheat became
remote.
At first there was dismay and
even panic among landowners.
Pressure was put on the State
Government to make an offer of
£lO,OOO for anyone who could
discover a means of eradicating
skeleton-weed in a commercially
economic manner. Some wheat-
farms were sold at bedrock
prices, but now, in the light of
subsequent experience, most
thoughtful landowners will agree
that the advent of skeleton-weed
has been a decided benefit to, if
not the salvation of, the Riverina
wheatlands.
It was soon discovered that
skeleton-weed, if kept bitten
down close to the ground, pro-
vided excellent grazing for sheep
from spring until early autumn,
though at first the blackened
faces of the sheep caused some
apprehension among owners,
and some reluctance among
buyers at the sheep-sales.
The capacity of skeleton-weed
to continue growing under heavy
stocking throughout the summer,
when usually no other greenfeed
was available, presently had the
effect of causing a heavy demand
for sheep at the beginning of
each skeleton-weed season, with,
of course, a marked rise in price.
But, unfortunately, in places
where skeleton-weed has been
growing vigorously throughout
the warm weather, nothing what-
ever would grow in the winter, so
sheep prices regularly fell again
as soon as the weather became
cold.
Quite naturally, farmers who
had paid high prices for sheep in
October had a very strong objec-
tion to selling them cheaply in
March, so the search for a winter
pasture was on. Skeleton-weed
had at least convinced the wheat-
farmer that a pasture could be
grown in the hard summers of a
20in. and under rainfall, and it
seemed reasonable to assume
that something could be found to
grow in the more favorable
winter season, when they had
been accustomed to seeing their
wheat crops growing steadily and
regularly.
Sown oats as pasture were no
good, because oats were even
more reluctant to grow in
skeletonweed-infested land than
wheat. Government experiment-
farms recommended sowing
lucerne, and proved by demon-
stration that not only would
lucerne grow in competition with
skeleton - weed, but would
actually eradicate it by competi-
tion, so effectively that in a few
years wheat could be grown
again.
The disadvantage of lucerne
from the grazing point of view,
however, was that it cost a good
deal to establish, and it grew
most vigorously in the summer,
when all the skeleton-weed
farmers had more.pasture than
they knew what to do with. More-
over, another important factor
had now entered the picture—
the price of wool. Few land-
owners were now interested in
lucerne-growing as a step towards
a return to wheat. They wanted
winter grazing and nothing else.
For many years before this the
experiment-farms and some of
the more enterprising farmers
had been making some use of
Wimmera-rye for temporary
pastures, though the majority of
farmers, with characteristic
single-mindedness, had been
apprehensive about the possi-
bility of it becoming “a weed
among wheat” ; with some justi-
fication, it must be admitted.
Now, however, with wheat more
or less ruled out, Wimmera-rye
sprang into popularity because it
“Oh, Wally! I didn't think you cared!"
would start in autumn, provide
some grazing in winter and leap
ahead early as soon as the worst
frosts were over.
But the really valuable, and
most significant, development
was the discovery that, despite
previous experience, subter-
ranean-clover could be grown
successfully in a 20in. rainfall
in skeletonweed-infested land.
New introductions of the Dwal-
ganup strain from Western Aus-
tralia made the first undeniable
success. It was proved that it
became acclimatised in two
seasons, and after that it could
survive the driest spells and could
be depended upon to regenerate
itself yearly. So remarkable has
been the impact during the last
four years that ex-wheatfarmers,
who hitherto had hardly under-
stood what was meant by a
pasture, are lavishing topdress-
ings of superphosphate (at £l4
a ton!) on their fields of sub-
terranean-clover.
What is most encouraging
about the development is that
these hitherto one-crop-minded
landowners are beginning to
adopt a new attitude towards
their land. In the early switch-
over to grazing there was often
a danger of just as much harm
resulting to the land from over-
stocking, particularly in the
winter months, as there had
hitherto been from over-
cropping. But farmers who have
spent considerable sums in sow-
ing and topdressing clover have
a strong inducement to treat
those pastures with considera-
tion. You actually hear them
talking in the pubs, quite
earnestly, about the need to
“keep a good cover on the
ground,” and “giving the grasses
a chance to seed down” ; whereas
previously it was the habit of
some not to take their stock off
a paddock until some of the
animals looked close to dying of
starvation.
Departmental agrostologists
are attempting to develop even
hardier strains of subterranean-
clover, and are discovering
wonderful powers of acclimatisa-
tion and adaptation in the plant.
The so-called natural clovers,
medics and trefoils, are being
examined for strains with better
leaf-production, strains for better
winter growth, strains for
drought-resistance. So encourag-
ing has been the progress that it
is not fantastic to expect that in
the not-too-distant future large
areas of sown clover-pastures
will be growing in the western
Riverina, where now graziers
depend almost exclusively on
natural pasture.
Besides this, the success of that
remarkable oasis, the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area, so close
to Hay and Booligal and so
unlike Hell, is an indication of
what is going to be done when
the waters from the Snowy River
scheme become available to
irrigate a much larger area of the
western Riverina.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Bag-sewing
“Plum”; In the wheat-country
the headers will soon be march-
ing, and any aspirants for big
money at bag-sewing should be
getting ready. Like most
seasonal occupations (shearing,
for instance) the money is often
exaggerated—people who haven’t
tried it apply the rates to a
“gun’s” output—and, building a


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOBS A MAN'S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachA
men* illus-
trated is the'
World-famous
“ FARMERS ’
advt
BOY” STEPPED • AXLE
PLOUGH,
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcoa Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St.. Sydney. BW 4261.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
U’land : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
448 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S,Aust.;
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St.. Adelaide. W 1495&1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
m
:
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed .
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
BBBm
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for So years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Disk Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St. A-ddsiidc
W.A.; R.”p. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St.. Perth.
TAS.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee. Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), WeUesley Chambers, Lome St..
Auckland.
THE BOSS
ASKED ME
anditoid
him straight...
m
w
ATIONALS!
“As a truck driver I like to keep a check on the performance
of the trucks I drive —I even discuss performances with the
other drivers and we all agree that any truck in the Inter-
national line, utilities to big semi-trailers, is a fair dinkum
truck job. I can’t remember a single disappointment with an
International, and I’ve driven a few of them, as well as many
other makes.
“What I like about Internationals is you can depend on
them for long life and trouble-free service . . . that’s why you
see so many veteran Internationals on the road today and so
many modern International truck fleets.
“So what I told the boss I’m telling you—Buy Internationals.
They’re the world’s best truck investment.”
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE
INTERNATIONAL-LINE INCLUDES
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt. capacity, 115-in. w.b.
AR-110 Chassis and Cab,
AR-110 Chassis and Cab,
AR-112 Utility, 15-cwt.
AR-112 Chassis and Cab,
AR-112 Chassis and Cab,
AR-130 Chassis and Cab,
AR-131 Chassis and Cab,
AR-160 Chassis and Cab,
AR-160 Chassis and Cab,
AR-161 Chassis and Cab.
AR-161 Chassis and Cab,
A R-162 Chassis and Cab,
AR-162 Chassis and Cab,
Model AR-110
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every job I
There’s also a line of heavy-duty imported International
models. Call, phone or write your International
Branch or dealer about the right truck for
your job.
Note : Chassis and cab cap-
acities include body weights.
International Harvester Company of Australia Pty. (lncorporated In Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works : Dandenong and Geelong
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
, THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT PMT504 . 36
cheque in a cool bar, you don t
allow for what you can do with
soft hands in a hot paddock;
and you forget about expenses.
Still, it’s a good game when
you get the knack of it. But it
could take you 10 years to get
the knack of fast bag-sewing by
trial and error, and about 10
minutes to learn the funda-
mentals.
First, get your hands hard.
Hemp can cut soft hands like
razor-blades, and put you out of
business. Next, pick your cocky j
you want big tallies —you don’t
want to be lounging in the shade
till smoke-oh, waiting for a few
bags to pile up. Look at his plant
and have half a thousand bags
ahead all the time. Sewing new
bags straight out of the bale is
mug’s work. Only a careless
cocky would fill them anyhow.
If he’s not filling the stretched
sacks to the ears, chat him. Butt-
dragging is killing and will knock
naughts off your tally.
Look now to your twine and
needles. Don’t touch the left-
over hanks from last year’s
battle; the man after a tally
can’t afford to tie the thread he’s
using, hardly, let alone stop
half-way through the bag and
ravel together rotten thread.
Take over the bundle of twine
as it comes from the agent, put
it under your bunk, and keep it
wrapped. Take out your 400
threads for the day, cut and
plait them. Sever the hanks with
a sharp axe ; it leaves a good
clean end for threading. That
might sound trivial—to the
fellow who sews 120. It’s
important to the man who
intends to sew three to his one.
Now, your needles. Pick them
carefully, heat them, and take
the manufacturer’s bend out; if
they understood fast sewing in
the modern fashion they’d save
you the trouble. As it is, they’re
made for the old-timer who sets
in 30 stitches through the
selvedge. Set a file on to them
and then hone the cutting-edges
and the point. Use one about
6in. long; although the small
needles feel well and go through
the jute more easily, by the end
of the day they’re not in the race
with the needle that’s got the
feel of a precision-tool. Keep
them sharp and keep them shiny.
Carry a spare. For a palm, use
the one you had last season. If
you don’t carry a palm, then
you’re not interested in big
tallies.
When you reach your stand,
roll the spare hanks in a sack
and slide the one you’re using
down the leg of your pants,
bringing the folded-end up, and
protruding just where your left
hand will fall for the following
thread. Wear the hank opposite
to the hand that will draw the
threads. In this way, the last
thread will come out just as fresh
as the first. A frayed, heat-
unravelled thread is not for the
“gun.” Pick up your bag, give
it three quick dumps and a terrier
shake. Run your needle through
and throw on two half-hitches.
With practice, you can make
mouse’s ears or elephant’s; if
you’re after three bushels you’ve
got to keep them small. As you
stitch, fold the bag ahead with
the free hand. Run in about
three stitches and snap them
tight. If you try any more they
won’t tighten—but the more you
run in before the tightening jerk,
the faster the sewing.
Fillers are not generally used
now, but if you’ve picked an old-
time cocky who likes to see his
bags bulging on the four corners,
run a lockstitch in 2in. off the
final ear. This holds your stitches
tight while you pump the filler.
It’s merely a half-hitch. Then
run in a couple more, throw two
more half-hitches on the ear, and
slide the finished bag under you.
The whole process from dump
to stepping over it has taken you
two minutes. That’s 30 to the
hour, and if you have kept that
up for 10 to 12 hours, that’s near
a tenner a day and you’re near
the “guns.” Don’t think it can’t
be done one to the minute. It
can, but it’s special class. The
fellow who signs himself “Plum”
has done it, following the lines
set out here.
At the end of the season you’re
brown and tough and you take
away a couple of hundred quid.
I don’t know how many years it
takes off your life.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Intrusions of the Uranian Cycle have kept the season
as good as it has been, so far, but these intrusions are
uncertain (owing to the continued retreat of the magnetic
field of that planet), and so is the general situation.
Recent tests showed that the rain was due to the Mam
Cycle, mainly, because they corresponded with rams on
record for 1883. Rains on the Pioneer River were outstand-
ing. Another good test is possible—rain from about 14th
to 19th November would seem to indicate a good season.
Otherwise, the prospects are not good until about April.
Meatmeal and Milk
With the soaring of
the price of meatmeal, and its
scarcity, many poultryfarmers
are feeding less and less. Several
are putting in a couple of cows
and feeding skim-milk instead.
Milk is almost a perfect sub-
stitute. By feeding all mash
instead of scratch-grain at night,
the protein-content can be cut
to 7 per cent., the bulk of which
can be supplied by milk and
lucerne or clover. Birds on open-
range don’t need meatmeal, in
my opinion, as they pick up
enough protein in the form of
worms, etc.
It staggers most chook-cockies
to learn that, after all their
trouble and expense to give their
flocks a balanced diet, other egg-
chasers get better results on a
diet of pure pollard and bran.
Many poultryfarmers, forced to
do without meatmeal, have
found after some months that
they get just as many eggs: and
have a lower feed-bill. There
may be long-range effects not
yet brought to light, but the
thought does arise—is the neces-
sity for meatmeal just another
modern superstition?


one wonder who this R. W. Tullipan may
be.
With these comes the latest collection
of cartoons by Les Such, Such Moments.
the dismay of the gentleman opening his
rolltop desk to find the pigeonholes occu-
pied by pigeons, and other such nonsense
as appears in The Bulletin ; and two
Bulletin short-stories he has thought
worthy of inclusion: “Lions in the
Spinifex” by Gavin Casey and Oliver
Filter’s “Shoeing the Devil.”
Pacific Islands
In Isles of the Sun (Heinemann),
Charles Barrett records a mixed holiday-
and business-trip that took him up Cape
York, over the Torres Strait islands, up
the Fly River on the south of New
Guinea to visit his son, who is estab-
lished there; then to Rabaul in New
Britain, a tour of New Ireland and islands
to the east of it, Tabar, Lihir, Tanga;
then Buka and Buin; then the north
coast of New Guinea, up the Sepik River
—a pretty varied excursion.
Halfway through, he was appointed
acting-entomologist to the Papua-New
Guinea Administration, with instructions
to seek out the rhinoceros-beetle and
destroy him. This beetle has always done
a lot of damage, laying its eggs in the
breaks in the stems of coconut-palms,
and shells and rifle-bullets during the
war opened up enough holes in the stems
to turn the beetles from a pest into a
menace. For which reason they imported
wasps from Zanzibar by air; one tin
coming through from Africa was
labelled at Sydney: “Live beneficial
insects. Mostly Dead.”
But the pleasure of the book is of Mr.
Barrett’s observations, as of the masked
Duk-Duk dancers of New Britain, who
used to brain with a stone axe anyone
who happened to touch them, and now
have given their name to New Britain
Masons —the Duk-Duks’ ball is quite a
social event. He writes about collecting
ant-plants; and how it is good manners
to pat a man’s head in the north of New
Ireland, but certain death in the far
south; the upi hat in which young boys
are made hide their calf-length hair on
North Bougainville; the women pottery-
makers of Buka; the kite-fishers of
Melanesia who take garfish on baits of
spider-web hung from kites made of
leaves and flown with fibre-string lines,
which at Dobu Island are said to be a
third of a mile long.
There are also the helmet-masks on
Tabar, rare things, no longer made ; and
Songi the shark-killer chopping away at
a malagan or ritual-carving of a sea-bird
for a dead carpenter-boy ; and a rare
orange cowrie; wig-making among the
Wabagus in the New Guinea highlands;
the layout of the Government station on
Mount Hagen; the death-adders thick in
the Baiyer River stock-farm district; a
grand sing-sing near Mount Hagen where
columns of native dancers wore £40,000-
worth of bird-of-paradise plumes; the
Hallstrom experimental farm and the
aviaries of paradise-birds at Nondugl;
mosquitoes on the Sepik River, and up
in this district several haus-tamberans,
ceremonial buildings or native cathedrals,
narrow', pointed towers eighty feet high,
thatched around three sides and faced
in front with elaborately carved and
colored masks ; “Glory of the Sea” shells,
so rare that one is worth more than 100
guineas; and much-valued “Buka” bas-
kets, made only by the men of Buin.
With an index and 48 camera-pictures. (t
Polynesians
First published in the U.S. in 1938, and
now republished in the author’s country,
New Zealand, in a fine edition by
Whitcombe and Tombs, Vikings of the
Sunrise by Sir Peter Buck (Te Rangi
Hiroa) sails calmly onwards, placidly
ignoring, as republications will, the whole
of the Kon Tiki episode that has happened
since its first appearance.
It has to. For while it was the whole
Kon Tiki theory that the Pacific was
colonised by Peruvians who drifted west-
ward to its islands on balsa-wood rafts,
the whole contention of Sir Peter Buck
is that all the legends and all the evidence
prove that the colonists of Polynesia
sailed always eastward, into the rising
sun: they came from Indonesia, he says,
up through Micronesia, thus missing New
Guinea and the Solomons, down into the
Society Islands; the Society Islands
became for them the centre of a triangle,
“the Polynesian triangle,” from which
they spread out to other islands, a triangle
whose corners are Hawaii, New Zealand
and Easter Island. The main settlement
was made about a.d. 500. Havai’i, the
mother of lands, was not Hawaii, but
Ra’iatea in the Societies;
One basic language prevails throughout
1 olynesxa... .In the Society Islands, k and
ng were dropped; so the name for the
ancestral homeland, pronounced Havaiki in
other dialects of central Polynesia, is here
pronounced Havai’i. In New Zealand,
where w is used instead of v, the ancient
home is Hawaikx. In the Cook Islands,
where h is dropped, it is ’Avaiki. In the
Hawaiian Islands, where w is used and k
is dropped, the largest group is named
Hawai’i. In Samoa, where s replaces h,. v
is preferred to w and k is dropped, the
largest island is called Savai’i.
Sir Peter Buck, late director of the
Bernice P. Bishop Museum at Honolulu
and the late Professor of Anthropology
at Yale University, makes his learning
extremely interesting; it was not a
degeneration of the race that lost the
Tongans and Samoans the art of pottery
—merely that there was no clay in Tonga
and Samoa. Then again, though the
Indonesian ancestors of the Polynesians
used the loom, the Gilbert Islands by
which the race passed from the Carolines
into Polynesia did not grow the hibiscus
whose fibres were used in the Carolines
for weaving; and by the time the adven-
turers reached islands where the hibiscus
would grow, they had forgotten the art.
And the legends and songs of the past,
and the dances and plays that are per-
formed even now, are as decorative to
the book as they are necessary to eluci-
date, point by point, Polynesian history.
But all that meat, and no potatoes: Sir
Peter can account for everything but the
sweet spud in his “sailing eastwards”
reconstruction; and here he allows, in
line with Professor Roland Dixon, that
it must have come from America; that
it almost certainly arrived in Polynesia
before Columbus, and that, therefore, the
Polynesians must have sailed eastwards
to get it:
The Peruvian coast is specified because
in the Kechua dialect of north Peru the
name for the sweet potato is kumar. As
the general Polynesian name for the plant
is kumara, the tuber must have been
obtained from an era that used the name
kumar.
Although Professor Dixon assesses the
range of a Polynesian ship at 2500 miles,
Sir Peter considers that a canoe with a
favorable wind could have made the
4000-mile journey in a little over three
weeks at seven miles an hour:
The voyage was exceptional and probably
was made only once.
However that may be, or whether
Polynesians derived Ra from Egypt
through Indonesia, or Tiki from Peru
by way of balsa raft, it is unlikely that
any party of North European theorists
can give a more lively or profound
account of Polynesian society, history
and culture as it has existed and exists
in Polynesia than will be found in this
book.
Essays
From the Epworth Press, London,
come two little books of essays, both by
Victorians; Dreams at Sunset, by F. W,
Boreham of Kew; and Wind in the Tree
Tops, by T. Howard Crago of East
Malvern. They both write on a variety
of subjects, and most of their essays tend
to lead the unsuspecting reader to
religion.
Mr. Boreham, who remembers in his
introduction his old New Zealand parish,
has a conversation with Shakspeare on
the banks of the Yarra, writes of C. J.
Dennis as a brand plucked from the
burning, and must be the first to draw a
parallel between Dennis and Dante —the
“Bloke’s” Doreen he considers is
Dennis’s Beatrice; he is pleasant about
Cardinal Newman, and how as a youth
he found relief from toothache in play-
ing his violin, about the Buckland menage
where the “pet jackal has just polished
off his favorite guinea-pig,” about an
“ideal congregation” of one, about Bach’s
home-life and the amazing luck of Mary
Mitford’s ( Our Village ) father, who ran
through his own fortune, then his wife’s,
and then won for little Mary a £20,000
lottery . . . Mr, Boreham is a pleasant
talker, with a talent for finding the
unusual in familiar subjects.
Mr. Crago is more the direct philoso-
pher: a Yarra Bank speaker on a Sunday
afternoon having mentioned “the end of
Christianity” sets him afire, or the
thought that Christ was a carpenter; the
theories of Freud, Jung and Adler that
humanity’s main craving is for Love,
Security and Significance respectively are
all met, he considers, by Christianity;
and he is very good on a patchwork-
quilt sewn up from pieces of an old
woman’s mother’s wedding-gown, her
own wedding-gown, her school uniform,
her husband’s honeymoon-suit, the black
satin she wore at his funeral, etc. —he
writes, in short, little sermons, but easy
to sit through.
Various Versifiers
Robert S, Byrnes, general-secretary
and treasurer of the Presbyterian church
in Queensland, has had his collected
poems published by the Queensland
Authors and Artists’ Association,
Endeavor and Other Poems. Mr. Byrnes
is best known, perhaps, for his “Message
to England,” published by the London
“Times” in 1941;
Old Mother! from thy storied past is given
Thine ancient word—to labor and to live:
Our pride is in the oak that is not riven,
Our hope is in the strength that free men
give....
This was broadcast by the 8.8. C., and
with Lawson’s “England Yet” appeared,
the only Australian pieces, in the
anthology Forever England. Mr. Byrnes
includes some of the poems he sent back
to the Bulletin when he was overseas
for the Y.M.C.A. in World War 11,
notably “When ‘Mary’ Passed Me By,”
changed to this title because the censor
objected to “Troopship.” His poems are
by no means all war poems; there are
bush-verses, city verses, reflective verses
and five ballads.
Robert Cleland, the Sydney color-
photographer, has put out 43 of his
sonnets in a booklet, Grey Ghost, de-
signed by Cyril Pearl and with a cut and
decoration by Francis Broadhurst—they
have done him proud. It is very hard,
these days, for a sonneteer to shake off
the immemorial trappings of the form,
which have become a kind of fancy-dress
for it; and thus, when Mr. Cleland is
good, as in the end of “The Girl with the
Flaxen Hair”:
And like 3 vision never quite revealed
Her beauty sleeps in music more profound,
you have to come to it through hair that
is “in liquid dalliance with the sun”;
throughout these sonnets one is held up
rrom time to time by good things lost
in then background—the contrast is not
sharp enough, as photographers say.
Chasing-up Debussy, a little while ago,
one was surprised to find that his famous
prelude was inspired by a poem of
Leconte de Lisle’s, “The Girl with the
Flaxen Hair ’ —written to a Scots girl.
The poem itself might almost have been
a painting by Renoir or Van Gogh ; it is
worth looking at for anyone interested
in invoking a presence and an atmosphere
in words.
It may not be too late also to mention
several little books that have come in
from time to time; 23 Poems, for
instance, in which John Croyston and
Julian Woods go halves. Mr. Croyston
can be quite good;
Sounds filter through the day’s dream
like walking in sleep;
and winds creep
like tongues on the ice-clouds’ cream....
Mr. Woods is more critical; he doesn’t
like Liberals:
But your agreeing to somebody’s plan
Is the worst insult you could give that man;
and he is even more severe in “Black
Man’s Burden”:
The hand of England
With murder dirt under the fingernails
Clutches at the black man’s throat,
Starves him for breath, hides his wails....
The Pegasus Press, in its “New Zealand
Poets” series, is doing as fine a printing-
job of little pamphlet-books as has been
done by the best London publishers;
Number 5 of this series is Songs for a
Summer, by Keith Sinclair, who has his
own way with words, as in “The Poet
Encounters his Next Sonnet Arriving at a
Party”;—
She comes like a barque in a bosom of
sails,
O no one will sink her, she’s harder than
nails.
As strong as the swimmer who roughens the
seas,
Too quick for these privateers, sailing
settees....
And in number 6 of the Pegasus series,
Mary Stanley, wife of the poet Kendrick
Smithyman, writes of her husband and
children with recondite delicacy, as iu
“Per Diem et Per Noctem”: —■
Birds in their oratory of leaves
Clamor at morning over my love.
All waters praise him, the sea harbors
From harm, all islands are his neighbor
And rain at daybreak feathers his peace
Softer than pillows or my kiss
In Poet's Dozen, a duplicated pamphlet,
Laurence Collinson mourns the Rosen-
bergs, pities minorities;
I’m a jewboy, red, a queer, and a nigger-
lover,
I’m minorities, the brotherhood of man,
I’m death in Buchenwald, the books they
ban;
My house is where love is, and I’m no
rover....
belabors the rich, rails at time and clocks,
and ends with a very fine poem indeed —
I’ll take my lover to a wild place
Where the chant of the sea corrodes the rock
And the ear, and the fury of our embrace
Is the tempest that screams and the winds
that knock,
And my lover’s hands are the little waves
That shudder across the land that is I,
And we’ll stretch like the tide on the love
that each craves,
And we’ll break with a cry, and we’ll end
with a cry....
Finally, Gooreeana by William Beard,
just arrived, a verse-narrative of more
than 70 pages about the aboriginal gir l
Gooreeana. One of Dampier’s men gave
her a little boy, Bundulla, and eventually
there was a granddaughter, also Gooree-
ana, who bore a child to one of Cook’s
men. But an envious, evil aborigine
killed him. Gooreeana took up with
another aborigine, Pe-mul-ry, and
together they kidnapped the child of
some English settlers, but a nephew of old
Bundulla tracked them down, won a
spear-duel with Pe-mul-ry, and set out
with Gooreeana to return the child. Both
blacks were drowned in a flood after
delivering the child safely to the father.
Mr. Beard’s quatrains are regular and
readable, but often provoke a smile:
Go-mang say, “You tell Mees Carfrey,
In tree week or more I come,
Maybe I bring Gooreeana,
Den she give me little rum.”
And nowhere could it be better demon-
strated that a poet should subdue his
scholarship and write in one language
only:
Pe-mul-ry smote hard his na-bung,
And he laughed right raucously,
Grasped his ca-my and ar-ra-gong,
Said, “I’ll strike you in bib-be!”
Although the notes tell you he smote
his breast, laughed, grasped his spear and
shield and said “I’ll strike you in the
ribs,” the effect of the verse is still rather
of a censored nursery-rhyme. Otherwise,
Mr. Beard is laudably clear and direct,
and although this verse does little Shat
DONOGHOE AND THE WATTLE
Old Jack Donogh oe
Fossicking for color
Down by the Bullock’s Head,
Found a tree of yellow.
Wish,” said the wattle-tree;
“What will you buy?”
“Th ree blond waitresses
And a quart of whisky.”
Wish, Jack Donoghoe.”
“I shall live
In a yellow town-house
Beside the Tiv.;
And there will be music
And johnny-cakes and janes
And a colored rouseabout
To hand round the wines.”
“Wish, Jack Donoghoe.’’
‘And when I am dead,
A bird in a wattle-tree
Singing overhead,
“That I may find
When my veins are cold
Where the niggard wattle-tree
Gets her gold.”
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
ROPE
He had a long arm, the sailor had;
A yellow-scaled arm that uncoiled like a
snake
And, in the green water, slid down to the
rock,
And held the ship still, as though it were
dead.
Like a goose in its coils, it fastened the
ship;
And, though the winds blew, the ship
never sailed:
The goose never flew; the grip never
failed . . ,
He had a long arm, the sailor: rope;
Rope that knew only the strength of the
sea,
And matched, with its fibres, each fresh
blue tide;
Current and swirl, with its stay and guide;
And danced, then, a jig—as a hand toil-
free—
With a roll and a fling, and a blackbirder’s
blow
On any bare back, at feet that were slow.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


TWO IMPORTANT NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
A GALLERY OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
Chosen and Introduced by Herbert
Badham. The most representative col-
lection of examples of Australian art
assembled In recent years. The intro-
duction Is a short review of Australian
art from early romantics to present-day
abstracts. 110 reproductions of paint-
ings (10 in full colour), drawings and
sculpture. Edition limited to 1,000 copies.
73/6 (post 1/1)
THE EARLY AUSTRAUAN
ARCHITECTS AND THEIR WORK
By Morton Herman
This Is the comprehensive story of Aus-
tralian architecture In the period when
the foundations of modern Australia
were being laid. Compiled from original
records, it shows methods of design and
construction, and reveals details of the
lives of the architects themselves. 123
drawings by the author, and 4 original
Colonial architects’ drawings.
£4/4/- (post 1/5)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, and all the books you want to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
NOW AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
SARA DANE
By CATHERINE GASKIN
A Major Historical Novel of Australia
COLLINS
prose could not do, it succeeds in telling
a story clearly at considerable length.
Our Italians and Germans
It is hard to draw many general con-
clusions from W. D. Borrie’S Italians and
Germans in Australia (F. W. Cheshire,
for the Australian National University),
though the tables and graphs will no
doubt be useful to those engaged in
specialised studies.
Mr. Borrie’s strictly-scientific method
brings us up sharply against a new realisa-
tion: that while we are likely to include
those of Italian descent in our everyday
appraisal of Germans and Italians in
Australia, most of these will be Aus-
tralians, and evidently are lost to statistics.
Thus, when Mr. Borrie speaks of Italians
and Germans in Australia he means
Italian- and German-born —and thus
there were only 14,567 Germans in Aus-
tralia in 1947, whereas there were 26,872
in 1861, and 44,961 in 1891, the greatest
number the censuses disclose. Italians, on
the other were only 960 in 1871,
climbed slowly to 8135 in 1921; then in
1933 were 26,756 and in 1947 were
33,632.
Mr. Borrie takes them State by State;
plots their positions on maps with dots
that represent 25 persons a dot, draws
graphs of their proportion to other sec-
tions of the population, and explores
places of origin, especially of Italians,
with results that call into question claims
of their unworthy origin—in Queensland
cane-districts, for instance, they tend more
towards ownership than servitude.
But the most interesting general con-
clusion may seem a paradox to many
Australians; and that is that religion
has been a barrier to assimilation for
Germans, but not for Italians. The Ger-
mans, mostly Lutherans, found no
Lutheran church here, brought one into
being, and congregated around it and
apart from other Australians. The Ital-
ians, on the other hand, found that their
Roman Catholic church was the Aus-
tralian Roman Catholic church, and in it
mingled with the Australian community.
Three Cricket-books
Ray Lindwall is one of the greatest
fast-bowlers of all time. He has taken
more Test-wickets (158) than any other
fast-bowler; and he’s handy with the
bat. Now he joins the ever-increasing
team of cricketers who, while still play-
ing, apparently arrive at grounds with
bat in one hand and pen in the other.
The result is Flying Stumps (Stanley
Paul), which moves along with the
smoothness and rhythm of Lindwall’s
famed bowling-action —if his writing does
lack some of its classical grace.
Lindwall’s story is. mainly autobio-
graphical : the cricket he’s played from
his schooldays on. He covers each cricket-
tour he’s been, on, with hitherto-unpub-
lished dressing-room anecdotes and the
like, gives his version of a few contro-
versies in which he’s been mixed-up, and
endorses the “bumper” (in moderation).
For the would-be speed-merchant, he
hands-out plenty of useful tips.
Two of Lindwall’s boyhood “heroes”
were Bradman and Bill O’Reilly (who
contributes a preface); both then played
with Lindwall’s first grade-club, St.
George (Sydney). Of Bradman, Lind-
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
wall says he “consulted me over all my
field-placings, suggested alterations but
never insisted. If subsequent events
proved to me that he was right, as they
usually did, he would come up again and
ask ‘What about it now, Ray?’ but he
never attempted to say ‘I told you 50’....
His knowledge of the game could not have
been surpassed.”
Lindwall is not above quoting raptur-
ous praise—though, be it noted, only on
his schoolday sporting deeds and on his
football (Rugby League) prowess. Still,
his school sporting record (in cricket,
football and athletics) is imposing enough.
Apart from which, his story is a quietly
told recounting of great cricketing
success.
Altogether a pleasant, bright and enter-
taining book.
Lindwall quotes English fast-bowler
Trueman, on an occasion of Bert Old-
field’s name being mentioned, saying
“Oldfield, who’s he? Never heard of
him.”
Oldfield was, of course, Australia’s
greatest wicketkeeper in the between-
wars period; he will always rank with
the immortals in that branch of cricket.
But he well realises, as the Trueman
ignorance shows, that “reputations in the
cricket world (as in other spheres) soon
fade,” and consequently begins his first
book, The Rattle of the Stumps (Newnes),
with a modest tabulation of his past per-
formances. Former English Test-opener
Jack Hobbs contributes a foreword.
Oldfield, we find, became an expert
’keeper by hard work, concentration and
training; but if he formed his own style
as a cricketer, his writing owes too much
to cricket’s mundane historians—the
book is rather overloaded with cliches
and stock-phrases. Also, Brisbane Cricket
Ground Woolloongabba appears as
Woollangabba; cricketers De Courcy,
Noblet, Guillen are misspelt (and Guillen,
the West Indian ’keeper, played in three
Tests out here, not two).
The writing was seemingly done a
couple of years before the printing, and
not revised ; one or two conjectures have
been cancelled-out. For instance, Guillen,
whom “I foresee will prove a worthy
’keeper in the West Indies side for years
to come,” settled in N.Z. shortly after the
tour of Australia, and now plays for Can-
terbury in the Plunket Shield. (The
West Indies, judging by the recent tour
by England over there, have unearthed a
class ’keeper in McWatt.)
Again, there is his boost for N.S.W.
player Ray Flockton, who “has a great
future, and it will certainly disappoint
me if he does not develop into a regular
member of the Australian Test team for
years to come.” Flockton still has time
to get there, but the N.S.W. selectors
have discarded him after a long trial,
and have since repeatedly passed him
over.
However, Oldfield’s chapters on wicket-
keeping contain, to a reviewer who’s
never “kept” in his life, in any class of
cricket, many invaluable hints (they’re
illustrated). As well there are useful
pointers on batting, bowling and other
aspects of cricket, and he has also
gathered together many interesting im-
pressions and experiences of the game
The second book to hand on the
M.C.C. visit to the West Indies early
this year, Cricket Cauldron, by Alex
Bannister (Stanley Paul), sub-titled “With
Hutton in the Caribbean,” is better than
the earlier arrival, reviewed here recently.
It presents a far more satisfying cover,
not of the play itself, but of the constant
simmerings, bubblings and actual erup-
tions which surrounded the cricket on this
discordant tour, and fills-in and rounds-
out the somewhat incomplete picture
previously given.
Cricket, of course, is a grande passion
in the West Indies. For instance, when
the granting to Barbados of Ministerial
status (the most advanced system of gov-
ernment to be found in an English colony)
was to take place on the day that the
M.C.C. began its match with the island,
the ceremony had to be put forward so
as not to clash with the cricket. (In-
cidentally, overheard at the end of the
ceremony—Male voice, in tones of relief,
“Now we can go to the cricket.” Female
ditto, “Man, dat’s all you think about—
cricket.”)
The West Indian, too, is a born gam-
bler —will bet on the flies on the wall.
Bannister thinks this betting could be a
main cause of the ugly crowd-demonstra-
tions. He tells of a wager laid for 50
dollars that Hutton, then 72, would not
reach 75 —laid, mark you, without odds!
Hutton reached 75 with his very next
stroke, and a sum equivalent to the aver-
age fortnightly wage changed hands.
Hutton gets a deserved pat-on-the-back
for his stand-fast action in the nasty
“bottle-throwing” incident in the third
Test at Georgetown (British Guiana).
After it was suggested that he lead his
team off, he replied:
“No, we’ll stay. We want another wicket
or two this evening. These people are not
going to get us off. That may be their
idea, but, if so, they are wrong”.... The
simple action of the dour, strong-minded
England captain in turning his back on
the mob and concentrating on the job on
hand was a symbol of English character,
and, as such, more eloquent than a thousand
speeches, more forceful than a volley of
bullets. I have never felt prouder of “our
Len.”
Bannister concludes with some sug-
gestions on necessary steps to be taken
(with regard to umpiring, attitude of
spectators, etc.) before the M.C.C. should
send out another side. As Australia
goes to the West Indies next year, the
book should, perhaps, be made compul-
sory study for our administrators.
K. R.
Reviewed Briefly
Sea Front: Rachel Ferguson (Cape).
A long, discursive novel set in a typical
English seaside resort called Whitecliff.
Numbers of characters are introduced
during the summer and autumn of 1938,
and then followed through the war-years,
when, sharing common experiences of
danger and discomfort, many of the most
unlikely among them are drawn together,
only after the war to resume their in-
dividual antagonisms, prejudices and
ways of life. The book is almost plotless,
but one becomes interested in the people,
and even in the course of events, which,
except for occasional incidents of
drama, are uniformly inane. A book
that will provide a week of agreeably
gossipy reading, provided the reader be
prepared to tackle a rambling and some-
times confusing syntax, somewhat in the
manner of Henry James, but lacking his
graces and, it must be said, his profun-
dities. Viewpoint slightly snobbish
though not offensively so.
* « * *
A White House: Jefferson Young
(Constable). A beautifully printed fable
in which a negro tenant-farmer in the
American “deep south” determines to
paint his ramshackle hut white, which
symbolises to him a great deal more than
a gallon or two of paint. To buy the
paint, for he and his family manage to
live almost exactly at the level of sub-
sistence, he trades four days’ work for
a bull-calf which he intends to fatten
and sell. He lives with his ambition
during the long months it takes the calf
to grow, and meanwhile neighborhood
suspicion causes him and his wife and
children to live in need and eventually
terror. At last his wife kills the calf. In
its small way A White House manages to
convey what many other novelists have
taken large and sordid tomes to expound.
* ♦ * ♦
District Commissioner: Kenneth Aus-
tin Dobson (Museum Press). A novel
about the troubles of a British adminis-
trator in East Africa with natives and
white women: more sexual than racial.
* ♦ ♦ •
Hangman’s Clutch: Nigel Moriand
(Werner Laurie). The author of the
“Mrs. Pym” thrillers surveys the Heath,
Bywaters-Thompson, Ruxton, Crippen
and Haigh murder cases, among others;
the usual work-over with a suggestion of
a new point of view—he thinks Mrs.
Thompson was done wrong because of
the judge being too severe, for instance.
With plates.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 300
Across
I—Tor is a very stuffy and out-of-
date resident of Seymour and
thereabouts. (3-9)
9 —The result of adding up a girl
synopsis. (7)
10 — The unexpected visitor has to
accept this flukiness at the
billiard table. (3-4)
11— Times when the nose is broken.
(4)
12 — Sessions of individual instruction
in the French you take first
before the Rialto’s broken. (9)
14— Joins any puff-puff at the end of
magnificent rains. (8)
15 — Artist meets an old-time film-
star named Richard for the base
of a system of logarithms. (5)
18— Fifty score against Karenina for
the Israelites’ providential susten-
ance. (5)
19 — Fish given to one who has dinner
in a Melbourne suburb. (8)
22 X squared a branch and V cubed
four times to have a retreat. (9)
23 — King George meets an affirma-
tive elegist in the shade. (4)
25—160 stone the certain haircut. (7)
26 — A sudden successful stroke
allowed this element of Pope’s
verse. (7)
27 Cheering about the third of Sep-
tember and a mean Camembert
is to pop some jewellery. (6-6)
Down
1— Got the better of Demarest, and
streamed into it. (8)
2 Exhibitions which offer the devil
a holy share of limited food sup-
plies. (14)
3 Terrible fellow and I on a vehicle
which carries one under four. (4)
4 Attempt to bite if waiting to meet
a lover. (8)
5 Secret tree up in the general
estimation of one. (6)
6 Chasing a guardian’s responsibili-
ties later. (10)
7 His ark is corrupted and de-
bauched. (6)
8— Lucas to take no notice whatever
of the crook turn of an Italian
painter. (4, 10)
13 —Portray the fox’s tail. (5-5)
16 — Shellfish storehouse confused
Alec in the clean bar. (8)
17 — Ashy-colored deer or an elderly
bachelor? (4, 4)
20 —Coat is changed in Caledonia. (6)
21 —Stick a little business in this
place. (6)
24 —Catamount turned up with a
progenitor. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 299


ML*
A
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikmon St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broad ford (Fie.),
Botany ( N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which hove
been planted out.
By wise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd . has created a spurce of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home w hich does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per.year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
f
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is ai
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal Open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war.
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would nave
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SV 2 MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Boy (N.S.W).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about .£2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A-P-M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
