

the house
■
h
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
AN EARLY-DAY ARISTOCRAT
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3865
Wednesday, March 10, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
A GEM OF GALLOWAY BEAUTY, SCOTLAND'S CASTLE KENNEDY
THE south-western Lowlands, comprising the counties of Wigtownshire
and Kirkcudbrightshire, are often referred to under their ancient title of
Galloway, and they contain some of the most impressive scenery in the who e
of Scotland. This is an area, above all, where the term “Lowlands” is
inappropriate, for the rich pasturelands give way in the north and east to
a mountain wilderness over which presides Merrick, the highest peak in sout
west Scotland. Galloway's individuality lies in this abrupt contrast between
the pastoral lowlands and the wild, broken country of hill, moor and loch
which is as lonely and remote as any in the Highlands.
Here, beside Loch Trool, in 1306, Robert Bruce with a small band of
followers routed an English force by hurling down rocks from the surround-
ing heights. In these same hills smugglers made their illicit way from Solway
Firth to Glasgow and Edinburgh. This is the country made famous m the
writings of John Buchan and Samuel Crockett and here in the 17th and
18th centuries the Covenanters fought and died for their faith w.th a courage
that even saints might have envied.
Near Stranraer at the head of Loch Ryan in Wigtownshire are the ivy-
dad ruins of Castle Kennedy standing in 72 acres of gardens and paikland
which are renowned for their beauty. The gardens, at one time neglected,
were restored in 1847 to their 17th-century form and are now one of me
show places of Galloway, visited by many
Castle Kennedy was built in the reign of James VI (1567-16-.)
damaged by fire in 1715 and never restored to its former magnificence. For
centudes it was the seat of the Earls of Cassillis before passing to the Stair
Family. The property now belongs to the Earl and Countess of Stair w o
live in nearby Lochinch Castle.


The Red Page
SHEEP IN THE SNOW
Describing a season’s mustering in the
high, snowy country of rocks and tus-
socks, 44 miles out from Hanmer and 75
from Blenheim in the ranges of the
Kaikouras in the South. Island of New
Zealand, Bruce Stronach’s Musterer on
Molesworth (Whitcomb and Tombs) is
an exceptionally clear and mature piece
of nature-writing: so unusual in its infor-
mation, so firm in its picture of the
fascinating life (as it was a few years
ago) in that wild, beautiful and inacces-
sible territory that it could well become a
little classic in New Zealand.
Its stories of long hot days in summer
and freezing days in winter, out on the
hillsides with a team of 70 dogs, mustering
the sheep out of the rough gullies and
the rocky ledges on which they sometimes
stand “bluffed” and will leap to their
deaths if pressed, should give the book
a special interest for Australia; while
its general quality is quite up to the
best nature-books published in England
by such firms as Dent or Faber, which
have specialised in this kind of literature.
An odd point of particular interest to
Australia, incidentally, is that one of
the musterers (as late as 1929) told yarns
in the tent at night of “the mythical Aus-
tralian station” of the Speewah—Mr.
Stronach says he is uncertain of the
spelling and settles in the end for
“Spearwar”;
Whenever anyone starts to tell wild tales
of happenings in the back-country, stories
of the Spearwar are produced to belittle
them. For instance, the Spearwar is very
high country. All hands have to stoop at
sunset to let the sun go past. They stir
the tea there with a rowing-boat and mix
the plum-duff with a traction-engine
Each musterer eats a raw Merino ram for
lunch, and only the effeminate ones bother
to spit the skin out. The wind at the
Spearwar is terrific, and it is quite usual
to find a sheep’s head clinging with its
teeth to a tussock, the body having been
blown away. The tales are endless, and
very amusing when told by an old-timer
with a gift of spinning a yarn.
But the book is not about the Speewah
but about Molesworth, where four rivers
rise, the Clarence, Wairau, Acheron and
Awatere. It is about Mr. Stronach trying
to walk 40 miles to the station with a
701 b. swag on his back, and being forti-
fied on the way by a normal backblocks
hotel breakfast of eight eggs; about
arriving at the station, where nobody
answers his first “Good-day,” and learn-
ing that the three stations of Molesworth,
Tarndale and the Rainbow were all run
as one, a total of 400,000 acres stocked
with 20,000 sheep and 1600 cattle; about
“Jack” that first night coming into the
hut, where Mr. Stronach lay on a pillow
of John Masefield and O. Henry, to
announce the usual “Breakfast at 3.30.”
Then it is about camping in the high
country where, when there was not a
bush or a tree to tie the dogs to at night,
“I saw that some of the men had simply
stuck their mustering-sticks into the
ground and had tied all the dogs to the
one stick”; about starting before dawn
up the steep ridges, each man lighting a
fire of tussocks to show the point at
which he has left the main spur as they
fan-out, like beaters after quail, along the
“sidlings”; about killing keas (the New
Zealand mountain-parrot) for stew and
about whether or not the kea does, as is
charged in a thousand arguments, kill
sheep by digging for their kidneys—Mr.
Stronach says he has seen one at work
and has found many sheep they have
killed, though he doesn’t think all keas
are killers. The argument may continue.
There are deer and wild cattle in these
mountains-for both of which Mr.
Stronach, admirable though his terse-
ness of style and directness of theme are
for the most part, might have spared a
word or two of description: it is not
enough to sit, as he does, at some lonely
out-station and shoot three deer before
breakfast, without giving a little of the
looks and lore of these noble animals.
There are wild sheep, which have to be
ruthlessly exterminated wherever they
are met. There are Lake Sedgemere and
the Island Lake “which are full of big
brown trout and inhabited by flocks of
paradise-duck and swans”; and if one
regrets not being able to linger there for
a bit of fishing, and to learn just how
big those fat and far-off trout may be,
Mr. Stronach makes ample amends later
when he learns that enviable accomplish-
ment, how to tickle a trout, and comes
into camp from the Severn, or some small
stream near it, with half-a-dozen brown
trout, averaging “about seven pounds.”
We meet the musterers, a hardy breed,
camping out for weeks at a time on the
ranges as their counterparts in Australia
still do on the cattle-stations of the hot
inland plains: their lore of boots (an
important subject where the sharp stone
cuts into leather all day and every day);
their lore of dogs, most important of all
in a country where the dog must do most
of the mustering, where distemper i
likely to sweep right through the pack
where dog-stories are the favorite lies
and where “a man is judged by his dogs”
their occasional sprees, at Christmas o
after a muster, on three gallons o:
whisky ; their adventures on the height
and their heroic practical jokes:
After the day’s muster, two of us went
out to shoot a stag. We got him, and on
the way back to the camp came upon a
blind wild goat. He was very quiet, and
we had no difficulty in driving him down
the creek to the camp. He was very old
and had a fruity smell, something like two
dead elephants. At the camp four weary
men slept, resting after the day’s work. We
drove the goat straight into their tent
and when we had placed him properly
astride the head shepherd's face, retired and
beat the gong as for a drink of tea.
The goat came out first! We were sur-
prised to find the inmates of the tent so
angry oyer such a harmless joke. But I
suppose it is annoying to awaken and find
a smelly billygoat standing over one, and
more annoying still to go outside and find
two chaps, obviously the culprits, one
swearing that the goat had walked in by
himself, attracted by the smell, and the
other that the goat had been there all the
time, and they had not noticed him when
they pitched the tent.
It is curious, from an Australian view-
point, to read of anyone in New Zealand
being literally sick with heat and exhaus-
tion after a day’s mustering in the sun on
these mountains; but Mr. Stronach
leaves one in no doubt at all that it was
really hot that day. Nor, when he
describes finding sheep in “bottles”—“l
could not see through the spindrift, and
stumbled through the first basin without
finding sheep. Then I came upon some.
There were round holes in the snow about
a foot in diameter and in each hole a
sheep s head showed! The holes widened
out below the opening, so each sheep
was in a bottle-shaped cell”—does he
leave one in any doubt about the cold.
It is a country of extremes and, since he
has taken time to let his experiences sink
in since he has humor and
a manly gjjjirft, it is not altogether sur-
prising that Mr. Stronach writes extremely
well about it.
Pacific Island Novel
Roderick Finlayson’s new novel The
Schooner Came to Atia (Griffin Press,
Auckland) is set on some island of the
Pacific under New Zealand jurisdiction
“not to be mistaken for any known
Pacific island and its people.”
It is about a missionary who falls in
love with a native girl—a situation which
hds occurred often enough in the islands,
as in New Zealand itself in the early days
—and, though the plot is different and
the writing much less fluent, resembles
R. L. Stevenson’s “The Beach at Falesa,”
both in its island atmosphere and its
drama of violence in the night. The mis-
sionary in the end shoots a rival for the
girl’s favors and is allowed by a Resident
who doesn’t want a scandal to leave the
island and go on being a missionary
elsewhere—in the Solomons.
There are one or two excellent touches
of dramatic irony. Because no one else
is available, the missionary himself has
to conduct the burial-service for the
ne'er-do-well New Zealand lad whom he
has murdered. The Resident, feeling him-
self unable to arrest the missionary,
revenges his irritation by sending away to
trial and prison in New Zealand a native
youth, the girl’s brother, who has com-
mitted some petty theft and whom he
had promised merely to sentence to a
month on the roads in the island. The
missionary’s first—and only—lapse from
virtue when he spends a night with the
hiTar^ 0^ “ not hing happens,” makes a
bizarre and moving scene.
But in spite of these flashes of excel-
lence, and in spite of the convincing and
sometimes appealing evocation of island
life—the Resident amusingly suburban in
his romantic setting; the soft nights filled
with flowers and flying-foxes; the joy-
ous natives going off in a bus to the
pictures the novel as a whole is curi-
ously bald and flat. The situation is
stereotyped and readymade, not worth
touching for a writer of Finlayson’s
calibre unless it is going to be done
supremely well, on the level of the “The
Beach at Falesa”; and although, when
the Rev. Hartman first falls for Ina
Fmlayson promises a depth of drama and
character-study, he never quite fulfils
the promise.
The events are all rather too obvious.
One knows from the first hit of gossip-
ing by the Resident’s wife, when Mr.
Hartman comes to see the Resident about
Ina’s brother, that there is going to be
some misbehavior with native girls; one
knows, the minute that Mr. Hartman
sets out on one of his eccentric expedi-
tions to shoot flying-foxes by moonlight,
that someone is going to be murdered;
and one knows as soon as the old native
chief, who is aware of the missionary’s
guilt, agrees with the Resident that the
crime should be covered-up, that he will
subsequently blackmail the official. The
fault does not lie in making the move-
ment of the story clear but in creating a
false air of mystery about it instead of
concentrating on the depth, subtlety or
humor of the characters.
On a “magazine” level, as a colorful
story of the South Seas comparable with
the tales of Louis Becke, the novel (really
a long short-story) should do well—or
would if it could be reprinted in a more
popular format, or be sold in America—
but it is disappointing from Roderick
Finlayson: an amateurish attempt to
construct a dramatic novel by a writer
who in such short-stories as “The Totara
Tree” and the sketches that were strung
together in Tidal Creek has displayed a
rare gusto and lightness of touch when
he is free to observe the Maoris and New
Zealand farmers with whom, one guesses,
he is much more closely acquainted than
with missionaries.
FLESH ...Judith Wright
I. The Hand
Put your hand out and hold it still, and
look.
Like something wild picked up and kept
too long
it loses truth; light fades on the stopped
wing.
Infinite cleverness pivoted on a clever stalk,
it lives in time and space, and there is
strong;
but draw it outside doing into being,
it pales and withers like a sea-star dying.
The hand is drawn from the flesh by its
own uses.
Powers unchannelled, shapes unshaped
await it;
and what has long since happened and
been completed
lies in it and directs its bone and chooses
stress and muscle. Textures thrust to meet
it,
for it is their answer; stuff that cannot
move
moves under the hand that is all it knows
of love.
Do not look at me, the hand says. lam
not true
except as means. I am the road, the
bridge,
not starting-point nor goal nor traveller.
I am not you, the doer, nor what you do.
1 am extension, I am your farthest edge.
I am that which strokes the child’s hair,
tenderly—tenderly—
and drives the nail into the hand stretched
on the tree.
My shape is action. Look away. Do not
look at me.
II. The Body.
I am the depth below. You would do well
to look down, sometimes. I can be your
tree,
solid in the gale—if you consent to be
flower,
seed, and fruit. But you don’t believe in
me
except as crass and suffering and to be
suffered,
or instrument of your uncertain love.
I am your notion of hell
and your tool for discovering heaven. But
perched on me
you lean out with your arrogant polished
eye—
trying to be God. Look down; remember
where you are.
I am the strata that reach from earth to
star •
and the great cliff down which your
father Adam fell.
You would do well to look down.
More was built into me than quickset
night.
God walked through all my ages. He set
in me
the key that fits the keyhole; once turn
it right
and eternity’s lightning splits the rock of
time.
And there I was begun and so begotten
in that unspeakable heart of flame.
From that light where flesh on flesh was
welded
the world itself unfolded.
Look down through me on the light you
have forgotten.
I am your blundering kind companion.
I am your home that keeps out bitter
weather.
I am the perilous slow deposit of time’s
wisdom.
You are my threat, my murder. And yet,
remember,
I am yourself. Come, let us live together.
III. The Face
The face turns inward and down
on the head’s bud;
curves to its inner world
of shaping flesh and blood:
is closed like an eyelid; blind;
is made before its mind.
Birth draws the s£alk out straight
and the face wakes.
Naked in a passion of light
its long composure breaks.
It writhes to regain sleep;
but life has stung too deep
and flesh has now become
time’s instrument
for the first task that is set
and the easiest learnt.
Two shapes obsess it; need
and the need satisfied.
The mirror answers the face:
an animal in a cave
that lusts and tastes and sings.
A hill that breathes the air;
a glance that looks for love;
two crystals where all things
leech at the panes and stare.
What shall the face pursue
that drinks of time and event
and changes as it drinks?
What was it the flesh meant
foreshadowing in the womb
the being not yet come?
The face that turns to the world
opens itself to ask.
Look at it now before
it learns it is a mask:
for eyes take light like dew
while their glance is new.
It takes out of the air
all it can know.
Whatever look turns on it
that look it will grow.
So some learn love, and some
can never find a home.
The face becomes its world.
It is the moving field
printed by days grown common
and the unmastered night
—by unacknowledged need
and fear of its own deed:
yet knows that there have been-
flowering the world’s dull years—
faces more true than stars
and made of purer light;
and they may happen again.
O may they happen again.
Mrs. Gielgud
Few professions have such an aristo-
cracy of their own as English acting. The
marriages of the daughters of old acting-
families into the families of the rich and
the peerage reinforce them; for their pro-
geny, acting becomes less a way of life
than a knightly accomplishment, a service
to the realm, the custodian of its best
manners, its propagandist in war and its
social arbiter in peace, a Fifth Estate (is
it?) in our Hollywood-produced world
in which Parliament grows more and
more into a radio-vaudeville and the
greatest of statesmen must have the strut
and polish of an Arliss or the shrewd
charm of a Will Rogers.
This alone would make it interesting
to look into the background of Sir John
Gielgud, in his mother’s book, Kate
Terry Gielgud, an Autobiography (Max
Reinhardt); but the old lady (85) is in-
teresting in her own right : her memory
for details of the 1870’s preserves a pic-
ture that must surprise and charm
everyone.
Her mother was Kate Terry, daughter
of two strolling players; she made her
debut at the age of three, grew up mind-
ing her brothers and sisters, developed
into an actress under the tutelage of the
Keans, and at 23, when she married, had
been for five years “the head of her pro-
fession both in London and the pro-
vinces.” She married Arthur James
Lewis (of Lewis and Allenby, silk-mercers
to Queen Victoria), much-travelled as a
buyer for his firm, and with many artistic
predilections ; colonel of the Artists’
Rifle Corps, founder of “The Moray Min-
strels” and of the Arts Club.
Little Kate Terry and her three sisters
grew up among great names. Her pony
blocked the way of Queen Victoria’s car-
riage in Rotten Row; Lewis Carroll
taught her to do puzzles and autographed
an Alice in Wonderland for her; W. S.
Gilbert invited them every year to his
Christmas parties, and if they wanted to
see a Savoy opera (then being done in the
Opera Comique, “a rather dingy little
playhouse in the Strand,” while the Savoy
Theatre was building), they had only to
write to Mr. Gilbert and he would send
tickets for dress-circle or box. Irving
entertained them, and stayed often at
their Scottish place, miles out from In-
verness : her memories of his acting—
the book is full of plays wonderfully
(Continued on page 35)


aaquinu gmp psnp
©
m.
m
€>
t
ETWfUI
m
■
S
■
m
m
i
Wmmm
I
V
■
■
;
«
El
•h 5
■
I
JU
M
>«
1
M
mm
plpi
Mom
: :
:
mm
h
and
TA P S
it Vl JL @ kj® (copyright)
T.O.P.S. our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Service —is the
easy, modern way to shop. T.0.P.5., which was specially instituted for the
benefit of you, our customers, who find it impossible to come to town to shop,
brings every Department in ANTHONY HORDERNS’ just as near to you as your own
telephone. If you’re a busy housewife, a harassed business man or an out-of'town tradesman, T.O.P.S. can help you! Gone are
the days when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transferred from one department to
another with consequent delay. Gone, too, are the days when orders from different departments arrived on different days.
Now, an efficient T.O.P.S. assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your door. Or, if
you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S. Shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you!
J Let our Optical Department guard your Eyes at Worh and Elay!
h
ĥ
h
ĥ
h
Your eyes, when in need of attention,
will most likely sound their own warn-
ing. Headaches and eyestrain are but
two symptoms. Often this warning goes
unheeded —but, if you’re wise, you’ll
quickly pay a visit to our special 2nd
Floor Optical Centre, where Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., the con-
sulting optometrist, will be only too
happy to guide you in the care of your
eyes. Special attention is given to all
Doctors’ and Hospital prescriptions.
Anthony
Horderns'
opens daily at
8.30
a.m.
Every morning, Monday to
Saturday inclusive, Anthony
Horderns’ Store will be open
at half past eight. This
change in Store opening
hours has been made for
your convenience. Shop
early and save lunch-hour
time, benefit from our
many specials. And
remember, our Dining
Room will be open for
breakfast at 8.30, Monday
to Friday.
Australia's biggest
Birthday Party
What a riot of fun the
children have at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
every Saturday morning.
No less than 30 birthdays
are celebrated each week,
and between five and six
hundred children and their
senior escorts enjoy the fun
in one huge Birthday Party.
The fun starts at 9.45 a.m.,
when all the children gather
in our Special Concert Hall.
There they enjoy a full
hour’s entertainment and
community singing, con-
ducted by 2GB artists. Then
at 10.45 a.m., they all troop
down to our Dining Room
for their birthday parties!
What a great idea for
parents! All you do is book
a table for your party, any
number, at a fee of 2/6 per
head, and ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ do the rest.
Free Advice on
Interior Home
Decorating
In our recently opened
“Contemporary Shop” there
are three expert Interior
Decorators who will gladly
give you any assistance you
may need for furnishing,
redecorating, home painting
and planning.
This is a service many
thousands have availed
themselves of and for which
we are famous.
Contemporary Shop
3rd Floor
A "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
iDthony Horderns’
ĥ


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 10, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3865
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams -K. J. Prior
i
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BV 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
BOWYANGS AND BOW-TIES
A short time ago Jack Lang, who is a completely
inaccurate expert on a host of subjects but can claim
to be an authority on the history of the Australian
Labor Party, remarked that at the time of his first
Premiership of New South Wales—in the mid-1920’s—
for a “Labor” man to be seen in the Hotel Australia
was the equivalent to asking for expulsion from the
party ; whereas today that caravanserai had acquired
the nickname of Cahill’s Pub. Nothing could better
epitomise the change that has come over the “Labor”
party within the lifetime of most of its present leaders.
In the days of which the Big Feller was speaking,
or not long before, the class-conscious worker when
dressed “in his best” wore his Adam’s-apple bobbing
about above a soft-collar secured by a 9-carat gold
tiepin, but innocent of necktie —that piece of haber-
dashery being regarded as an emblem of the bloated
capitalist. “Labor” M.P.s did not carry dress prejudice
to these extremes, but they were acutely conscious of
the problem. They avoided dinner-suits and “tails” ;
they shuddered at the thought of aldermaqic robes,
and when they chanced to be in office in the Federal
or State Parliaments their Speakers scorned the tradi-
tional wig and gown. All this was claimed to be
evidence of sturdy independence ; “Labor” would have
no truck with the effete trappings of the past—it was
the party of the future.
Any competent psychologist could have told them
it was nothing of the sort. The aggressive rejection of
the necktie by the manual worker was merely a mani-
festation of an inferiority complex, and the correspond-
ing attitude of “Labor” leaders was a compound of the
same weakness, plus a desire to impress the rank-and-
file with their contempt for the old order of things. The
feeling might be summed-up as a desire to appear “one
of the mob” ; to evoke the tribute “Good old Bill!
He’s one of us. No high-hat notions about him !” As
a pose it paid dividends, but it was never more than
a pose, as has been revealed in recent years, most of
all in the outbreak of tailored elegance seen during
the Queen’s visit.
It is true that some of the more conservative
“Labor” members still keep up the old tradition. Eddie
Ward, for example, would apparently rather have his
constituents see him in his shroud than in soup-’n’-fish,
although it would probably be impossible to find a
pair of bowyangs in the whole of his electorate and
the attire of those who vote for him is, on festive
occasions, not greatly dissimilar from that of the
supporters of Robert Gordon Menzies. But, despite
unimportant exceptions, the upside-down sartorial
snobbishness of “Labor” leaders and followers alike
has now largely disappeared, and it is not likely that
Premiers Cahill and Cain have lost any votes through
wearing Homburgs—or even white-ties and tails.
All the foregoing is by way of explaining why at
a typical Hotel Australia function of the type that
raised Jack Lang’s hackles it is so difficult for the
casual observer to distinguish the “Labor” politicians
and union officials from the businessmen, bookmakers
and bureaucrats they delight to honor at taxpayers’
expense. That, no doubt, is all as it should be ; there
is no place for class-consciousness in Australia. But
unfortunately the picture is not so complete as it
seems. When “Labor” discarded its bowyangs the
process continued upward. It ended, alas, at the
eyebrows. In consequence, although the body of
“Labor” lives, moves and has its being in the thoroughly
enjoyable present, its mind is still back in the
embittered past.
When prosperous politicians, who obviously (and
quite naturally) enjoy official junketings, and high-
salaried and expense-sheeted trade-union bosses, whose
activities take them on capital-to-capital conference
rounds plus occasional world tours, act and talk as
though they believe that the least-skilled workers in
the community are the salt of the earth and deserve
most of their country, they are either being conscious
hypocrites or are suffering from retarded mental
development. It is perhaps more charitable to accept
the second view.
Despite the current clamor over margins for skill,
most of the energies of “Labor” have been expended
on behalf of unskilled workers. The woes of the
basic-wage worker are the stock-in-trade of every
“Labor” speaker. Every basic-wage increase has
improved the position of the unskilled in relation to
the trained tradesman, and every log of claims for
margins seeks increases not only for the skilled, but
for the half-skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled as well.
It requires only a very elementary knowledge of
economics to realise that after basic needs have been
met, any increase in the living standards of one section
of the community can only come at the expense of
other sections, unless the section receiving the addi-
tional benefit produces, as a result, more than it was
doing before.
It is also a plain fact, though one that will never
be proclaimed from a “Labor” platform, that the
unskilled worker contributes nothing towards improved
living-standards. In Australia better living-standards
can now come only from increased output, and this
can proceed only from improved techniques and higher
standards of efficiency among trained tradesmen.
Synthetic tears about the impossibility of living on the
basic wage are beside the point. There is virtually
no basic-wage-earner in Australia ; almost everyone has
a margin of some sort, and under some awards the
rate for the unskilled man has almost overtaken that
of the man who has served years learning a trade.
Last week the Sydney Water Board advertised for men.
Wages offered were: motor-mechanics, £l5; fitters,
£l5; pick-and-shovel laborers (minimum), £l4 7s. 6d.
On that particular job, for his years of training the
tradesman is now 12s. 6d. better off than the man
without training! The basic wage in Sydney is now
£l2 35., but if the unskilled laborer has a margin of
£2 4s. 6d. only the Recording Angel can say how
unqualified a man must be to qualify for the bare basic
wage.
If “Labor” really wants to improve living-standards
in Australia it will have to forget the alleged miseries
of the mythical basic-wager, and it will have to throw
overboard its concern for the unskilled laborer, greatly
though it may esteem his vote. With pensions, child-
endowment, unemployment-relief, medical- and
hospital-benefits and the rest of the structure of social
services ensuring the lowest-paid against actual penury,
the time has come to concentrate on seeing that
technical skill and training get their reward. Only in
that way can increased productivity be achieved, and
with it permanent improvement in living-standards for
low- and high-paid workers alike.
Questions for the Doctor
What will “Labor’s” policy be in the election
campaign? What will its policy be in regard to the
Senate, with a leader who was the father of the
proportional-representation and deadlock system that
has caused Parliament so much trouble and the country
so much expense? Will Dr. Evatt now revert to
“Labor’s” platform (an abnormal thing for any
“Labor” leader to do) and work for Senate-abolition,
or has he some other scheme?
What will be his policy on arbitration and indus-
trial peace? That was a large issue when his party left
power—the largest issue, in fact, in politics, seeing
that ever since he and his colleagues took office in
1941 the country had carried on its shoulders the load
of wholesale stoppages, intensified every year until it
became necessary to call out the military to get coal
in 1949. The pass had been reached then when even
Dr. Evatt was forced to accede to legislation to try to
WTest the unions from the hands of the Communists
and to safeguard the defence projects at the Rocket
Range,
What will be his policy on socialisation, which
stays in the platform as its main objective, with a
number of methods attached which might have come
out of the Russian Constitution? It isn’t, of course,
much use asking him, because “Labor’s” attitude to
the public in these matters is the same as that of the
Communist poet who wrote that “the people is a
beast of muddy brain” which can be safely told
anything.
The things the electors have been told by “Labor”
leaders about socialisation would impress a confidence-
man. Dr. Evatt himself told them at Hurstville on
August 4, 1943, for instance, “that there will be more
room for private enterprise and business after the
war than ever” ; that “the Commonwealth Constitution
gave no power to nationalise industry the charge
of socialisation against the Government has no founda-
tion” ; and Mr, Curtin said the same. Mr. Dedman,
who, no doubt, will be a candidate again, said on
March 22, 1945, during the debate on the first Chifley
Banking Bill introduced that year, that to “have one
bank undertaking the activities of the central bank
and monopolising the whole field of the trading banks
as well” could be “described, perhaps, as nationalisa-
tion or socialisation of the banking system,” and that
the “Government had not selected that system, but
proposed an alternative which it thinks is better fitted
to the country.” Yet history makes it clear that the
bill on which Mr. Dedman was speaking was designed
specifically to clear the way for nationalisation of the
banks and the “socialisation-within-ten-years” pro-
gramme which was being put forward at the A.L.P.
conference in Sydney by Mr. McKell and his followers.
It is usually a sign that “Labor” is contemplating
the most extreme measures when it condemns them.
And while, after the devastating defeat of 1949, Dr.
Evatt and his friends pretended, and still pretend, that
socialisation as an issue has been killed by the rulings
of the High Court on the banking legislation of 1947
and by the subsequent verdicts of the people, the truth
occasionally peeps out of them, as when Mr. Calwell
spoke on October 11, 1950:
The Menzies Government may he the Government
of the country, but we are the ringmasters... .In
the course of time the Commonwealth Bank will
he the only bank in Australia. By competition it
will force the private banks out of existence, and
thus the private banking system will be nationalised
without the necessity to pay compensation to the
private banks.
That is the aim of the future controller of Australian
finance if “Labor” secures power—of the man who
said in 1947 words which apparently had been punched
into his brain by the legion of followers of Moscow
with whom he perforce associated in the “Labor”
party: “The capitalist system is collapsing and we will
take over we will pluck the fowl.” Yet it is not
the ostensible aim of the party which nevertheless
tried to nationalise the banks, and five days after it
was sworn in under Mr, Chifley in 1945 at once
introduced a bill to “nationalise inter-State airlines”;
the Government which objected to the denationalisa-
tion of shipping lines owned by the Commonwealth,
and proposed in 1949 to create a socialised Govern-
ment monopoly in certain phases of radio-transmission
while complaining loudly that “the allegation that this
measure is a piece of socialisation is entirely without
foundation.” It was about as convincing as if a wolf
were to go about howling: “I don’t eat meat.”
Of the more recent issues about which electors
will be curious to hear “Labor’s” policy on unemploy-
ment and Depression (with a capital “D”) are two
with which “Labor” has been regularly promising to
deal.
What kind of a policy can “Labor,” which has
been preaching the imminence of wholesale out-of-
work destitution ever since 1949, frame on something
that isn’t there? All the real unemployment in Aus-
tralia today could be put into a quart-pot, and there
would still be ample room for Dr, Evatt’s political con-
science on top before the lid was fitted.
“Labor’s” policy seems to be an empty can. Its
only possible case seems to be a call to the country
to return to the “good old days” of 1949 —the days of
wholesale strikes and loss of work, the days when
impudent Communists sat on Government committees
dictating- national policy and drew Government
salaries, when regulation and rationing were
the general thing, and when strikes were rife
and blackmarkets normal. And when the atmosphere
of.the Federal Government was much like that which
hangs round the Cahill Government, with rumors
louder than whispers about the transactions of Ministers
overseas and Garden substituting for Doyle against
a background of Senator Stan Amour’s innocent but
colorful adventures abroad.
It would be a hardy community that wanted
another taste of those years.
Facing the Jap Issue
“In the ACT”: It’s pretty obvious already that one
of the Federal-election issues will be an emotional
appeal by “Labor” on the allegedly pro-Japanese policy
of the Menzies Government, linked with the old pig-
iron story and the remark by Menzies during the war
that the post-war world would need a prosperous
Japan and Germany. •
The Japs themselves are providing a bit of fuel.
The Nippon Embassy in Canberra has just circulated
the full text in English of what Yoshida and Foreign
Minister Katsuo Okazaki had to say in the Diet on
January 27, and it justifies study. Yoshida thanked
Australia for its magnanimous action towards war
criminals last year, and looked forward to similar
sympathetic consideration being shown. “This is
because,” he said, “the independent Japan, with the
lapse of three years since the restoration of her
sovereignty, is most anxious to contribute to the peace
of the world, by refreshing the spirit of the nation.”
A few extra tears were shed by Okazaki, whose
comment should interest all Australians. He said that
paroles were gradually increasing, but 798 persons were
still detained in Sugamo Prison, “and the plight of
these war criminals and their families is indeed pitiful.”
Yoshida predicted a mutual-aid agreement soon
with the United States, and talked of a gradual increase
in the “system of self-defence.” His Foreign Minister
said it was part of the basic policy of the Government
to strengthen collaboration with the countries of
South-east Asia (he didn’t specify which) to “put
into practice the concept of collective security and
thereby contribute to the rehabilitation of our country
and the promotion of peace in Asia and the world.”
None of this can be either palatable or reassuring
to Australian and New Zealand defence-planners, what-
ever the other partner in Anzus thinks of it. Neither
can the early opening of trade-talks between Australia
and New Zealand and the gradual lifting of import-
restrictions be pleasant for many Australian manu-
facturers. But all this doesn’t mean that the Australian
Government hasn’t a strong case for its policies. In
general terms it may be better for us to have a
prosperous Japan instead of one poverty-stricken,
ostracised, and wide open to Communist infiltration.
It may be preferable for the Japs to make toys and
textiles instead of guns.
The £66-million-worth of wool that Japan is now
buying annually from us is an important factor in
keeping wool prices up and thereby promoting Aus-
tralian prosperity, and it’s obvious that Japan cannot
keep up purchases at that rate unless we buy more
from her. In addition, Kent Hughes, who can speak
with some authority on the subject of Japs after brutal
usage as a war prisoner, has said that the Govern-
ment’s policy is to give them a chance to redeem the
past. He told Mr. Calwell that Australians had a
Christian duty to the vanquished. He admitted that
trust would only be born after a long lapse of time*
but added, “I have no intention of starving others as
we were starved, or reproducing the brutal treatmen
that was meted out to us in Japanese prison camps.
These sentiments demand respect from such a
source. “Labor,” trying to cash in on the justing
mistrust and hatred of the past, has, as usual, otter
no workable alternative. We don’t trust the Jap,
and the reasons why we know full well. But
have to live in the world with them, and it. s time
decided finally the exact nature of our relationships.


CREDIT GOOD
"The International Bank has granted Australia a $54 million loan, the third dollar loan made by the bank to finance development in Australia. The bank has
commented favorably on the present condition of Australia’s economy.”
“A pleasure to do business with you, gentlemen.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
No "Coasting to Victory"
While the Menzies-Fadden Government
has a good chance of victory at the polls
on May 29 there is little ground for
the slogan being propagated in some
Liberal organisational circles that the
Government will “coast to victory.”
The recent Gallup poll doesn’t sup-
port it, and the general background of
politics doesn’t either.
While the ousting of the Communists
from most big unions has been to the
credit of the Government it also has
strengthened the A.L.P. as a whole by
giving it control of powerful union-
machines and their funds, which
formerly were at the disposal of Com-
munist leaders and not always used—
especially the money part —for “Labor’s”
purposes.
There is undoubtedly a hidden strain
of sectarianism in politics to-day which
cannot be ignored; and there is also
strong “sectarianism” in business. There
are pressure-groups which would sell
their mothers irrespective of the inter-
ests of the country to get their own
selfish sectional ways. And if Liquor
doesn’t add gratitude to self-interest
after what the N.S.W. “Labor” Govern-
ments have done for it in the past few
years it will be surprising.
Five State Governments will be work-
ing tooth and nail for “Labor.” With
Dr, Evatt in power the Commonwealth
would be theirs and they could squander
at will. And civil services are steadily
being “democratised,” even the Federal
service, in which the Government has
been foolish enough to leave large num-
bers of political appointees placed by
the Chifley-Evatts in strategic positions
for the sole purpose of defeating their
successors.
Lastly, beside the rural malcontents
who become more ungrateful in propor-
tion to the rises in their incomes, are
the growing number of young voters in
States like N. S. Wales in which some
schools politicalise children and pass
them into adulthood as “Labor” voters
who have never had a chance to learn
any viewpoint but that of “Labor” from
their schoolteachers. Not all teachers
are in the class which lends itself to
this sort of thing, but the school-books
of N. S. Wales tell their own story, and
the results of their use have an increas-
ing effect on elections.
Finally, “Labor” is not dead. There
is little justification for its existence,
since it is a party which battens on the
sufferings and grievances of others. But
its latent energy is still there, and it is
an energy of desperation. It does not
know where to turn for policy, which
is the food on which it survives, but it
is like a wounded rhinoceros fighting for
its existence, and as dangerous as any
wild animal to its adversaries. It will
stop at nothing, and if Liberalism, with
several weak seats and one or two
in danger through great shifts of popula-
tion which have turned safe seats into
doubtful ones, does not take the initiative
and strike hard and often the result may
prove a numbing surprise.
From the start an all-out effort
should be built up to make the victory
a decisive one from which Socialism will
never recover.
Mau Mau and Australia
One of the first tasks begun by Moscow
after the foundation of the Comintern
was to turn native peoples, backward and
savage, against their white rulers.
The first essay in British colonies along
these lines was on the Rand in 1922, when
the Communists staged a small revolution
organised by immigrant Eastern Euro-
peans and implemented by the help of
natives egged on to violence.
The judicial committee which inquired
into the matter after it had been cleaned-
up with tanks and more than 500 lives,
all told, had been lost, sheeted the job
hard home to the Kremlin and discovered
also a general world knowledge of, and
interest in, what was going on among the
Communist parties of the world. Corres-
pondence was found showing that the
Australian party was cognisant of what
was happening.
All, native movements in Africa seem to
stem originally from Communist effort,
including the Mau Mau movement, which
is in such vigorous bloom in Kenya.
The savagery, the torture, the brutality
accompanying that campaign against a
kindly and tolerant British rule which has
brought the native of Kenya a healthiness
and security in his way of life he has
never known before is unexampled in
modern times.
The most diabolical of the South
Asiatic tyrannies, from Thebaw down-
wards, have nothing to show comparable
with Mau Mau’s atrocities, practised on
whites and Africans friendly to the whites
alike. The ritual of the Mau Mau is
marked by cannibalism. The trail of its
operations is marked by bloody butchery
and inhuman mutilation against men,
women and children.
Yet Moscow holds it up as a “liberation
movement” produced by a genuine demo-
cratic urge, and Communist papers the
world over represent the British as the
terrorists who are keeping down a peace-
ful people whose urge for freedom is ex-
pressed in the chopping-up of mothers
in front of children and the torturing of
opponents.
Kenya is a matter of interest to* Aus-
tralia as much as to Britain—more so,
in fact.
Apart from its importance as a source
of raw materials, which is growing every
year, it provides a base for the defence
of Australian routes to Europe and per-
haps, in these days of long-range bombers,
the defence of Australia itself.
It lies along the axis of the Soviet
Union’s propaganda-thrust to wrest con-
trol of Africa from Western nations and
put the Indian Ocean in a pincer. The
Mau Mau campaign is as much part of
World War 111 as the recent operations in
Korea, the operations in Indo-China and
the continual Communist pressure, all too
successful, to infiltrate Indonesia on a
grand scale.
The Commonwealth Government might
well offer a little help in Kenya if it is
needed. It is our battle just as much as the
United Kingdom’s, and moreover it is
that of the United Nations, whose organi-
sation seems curiously tongue-tied on the
topic.
Bankstown Council
Another Sydney municipality has
attained the distinction of having its
elected council suspended and its affairs
placed in the hands of an administrator.
Last year Mr. I. H. Hunt, of the Local
Government Department, was appointed
to inquire into the administration of
Bankstown Council after allegations of
irregularities had been made by one of
the aldermen. His report was published
in December and included, among other
things, an intricate story of dealings in
electrical appliances. He said he was
not satisfied with the explanations given
by the council’s chief-assistant electrical-
engineer, J. Fitzpatrick, and another
council employee, G. Watson. Nor could
he accept Fitzpatrick’s explanation of
transactions involving the purchase and
sale of 148 electric motors ; “the trans-
actions must be viewed with grave sus-
picion.” The council’s blue-metal deal-
ings—supplies were bought through an
intermediary who was a brother of Fitz-
patrick—Mr. Hunt also found unsatis-
factory.
Last Wednesday Mr. Renshaw, Minis-
ter for Local Government, announced
that the council had been dismissed and
that he had appointed Mr. Dane, chief
inspector of local-government accounts,
to administer the municipality. He said
that the council had been given ample
time to put its own house in order, “but
it would seem from its attitude in the
past that it is incapable of taking the
necessary steps.”
The following day the Mayor, Mrs.
Barkl, told the Press that the 12 dis-
missed aldermen had decided to seek
legal advice on their dismissal, where-
upon three aldermen dissociated them-
selves from the statement.
Mr. Dane has moved in to take charge
at Bankstown. He should be used to
the routine —he has been running Leich-
hardt council since its aldermen were
dismissed last year following allegations
of graft. Both Bankstown and Leich-
hardt were honest-to-goodness “Labor”
councils.
The Press and Defence
Last weekend, on a day on which it
recorded a speech by a United States
Senator describing the horrors wrought
at Eniwetok by last year’s explosion of
the first hydrogen-bomb, Sydney “Sun-
day Telegraph” devoted nearly the
whole of its front-page to military
“information.” Streaming across the
sheet were large headings telling
anybody who cared to know that
the R.A.N. had a new and very efficient
anti-submarine device and where to look
to find out the details. Another sensa-
tional paragraph told, in a telegram from
Wellington (N.Z.), about the gathering of
“liquid oxygen” in the “greatest
secrecy” to be carried to Britain (where
atmospheric oxygen contains too much
carbon-monoxide) for “a new British
secret weapon.”
Of course these secrets unearthed by
the Press may not be secrets at all —often
they are mere rubbish ; but sometimes
they are rubbish with a grain of reveal-
ing truth in them. The essential thing
is that if the daily Press of Australia
finds out something which it thinks
vitally affects defence it seems to have
not the slightest hesitation about publish-
ing it to the world. The scoop’s the
thing.
Democracy always fights modern war
•at a disadvantage because of the “free-
dom” of a Press which is able to publi-
cise secrets in peace-time, if it can find
them out, and in war-time irresponsible
criticism, ill informed, vituperative and
panic-making, like that which disgraced
the daily-papers at the fall of Singapore,
and when a few Japanese penetrated the
Owen Stanleys in 1942. The Moscow
newspaper which panics during any war,
the editor who gives away any secret
which the Kremlin believes to be of the
slightest interest to a potential enemy,
will have short shrift.
Basically our way is the better way a
million times, but if the daily Press ex-
pects its freedom to report anything it
likes to continue it might develop a
sense of responsibility and remember,
for instance, that in being able to keep
secret from the enemy the existence of a
special type of anti-submarine device
may lie the difference between Sydney
continuing to be a city and being a hole
175 ft. deep and a mile across, with five
miles of lifeless ruin round its perimeter.
That was what the island on which the
hydrogen-bomb went off is said to have
been like after the explosion.
Murder
From London: A problem of the
moment, capable of solution but none-
theless overridden by doubts and con-
troversy, concerns the right punishment
for murder. It is a problem the ordinary
citizen finds difficult to comprehend, for
degrees of murder, and of murderers, for-
tunately make little impact upon his life.
Only when the front-page is given over
to details of particularly violent, revolt-
ing or ghoulish crimes (we have had our
fill of late) does he react —and decidedly
not towards leniency of sentence/
Despite the frightful nature of these
recent murders, the arguments for
amending the law on capital punishment
are growing in strength. And the Royal
Commission on Capital Punishment,
after four years of comprehensive
investigation, recently published its
conclusions.
Since abolition of capital punishment
is a matter entirely for Parliament, the
commission was confined to suggestions as
to modifications of the existing law; its
terms of reference excluded considera-
tion or advocacy of abolition. With an
ex-civil servant. Sir Ernest Gowers, as
chairman, and Sir Alexander Maxwell, a
penal-reformer who has spent 44 years
at the Home Office, as its best-informed
member, the commission has suffered
greatly from this inhibition; indeed,
abolition overhangs the inquiry so
insistently that it just can’t be excluded.
The commission, in fact, has to admit that
“a stage has been reached where there
is little room for further limitation short
of abolition.”
The suggested “two-party” trial has
few critics, particularly as the establish-
ment of guilt would not be accompanied
by the black-cap ritual —considered by
many to be a monstrous farce when the
judge knows that a reprieve will follow.
Also, reform of the 110-year-old Me-
Naughten rules on insanity is overdue.
But the other two main suggestions have
been keenly disputed.
One of these suggestions, passed only
by the chairman’s casting-vote, would
raise the age-limit for execution from 18
to 21 ; the other would empower juries to
exercise discretion in mitigating the
sentence, thus relieving a known person
(a judge or the Home Secretary) from this
responsibility. The commission is neither
unanimous nor happy about this idea, but
says, in effect, “It’s the best we can do.
If you don’t like it you must make up
your mind about capital punishment.”
British M.P.s Are Modest
The difference between the sense of
responsibility of British legislators and
that of the Australian breed is shown
by the meticulous and solemn manner
in which the question of another increase
in the salaries of British M.P.s is being
approached.
The last increase was given in 1946
(to £lOOO a year), but even with taxation
at about 9s. in the £ the Labor Govern-
ment rejected the suggestion by a select
committee that the first £5OO should be
automatically tax-free.
Actually the Inland Revenue has
allowed deductions up to £750 in 1953,
but the member has to prove his expendi-
ture. And unlike the sybarites of Can-
berra the British M.P. must provide his
own private-secretary, and he has no
living-allowance while he is away from
home at Westminster such as his Aus-
tralian brother has at Canberra.
The All-party Select Committee which
recently reported wrote of British mem-
bers’ plight:
Some have sold or mortgaged their
homes; the savings others made before
entering Parliament are now exhausted
and debts are accumulating; others have
sacrificed pension rights which they had
established with a company or firm....
and are now at an age when it would be
difficult, if not impossible, for them to find
employment when they leave the House.
Some have to refuse to attend public func-
tions which they ought to attend; in some
cases, in order to supplement the family
income, the wife of the member has to
find employment. For a long time some
have not been able to afford luncheon or
dinner in the dining-room of the House of
Commons and only use the tea-r00m....
Many have to write their letters person-
ally because they cannot afford a secretary.
The Select Committee recommends an
increase to £l5OO a year, the establish-
ment of a non-contributory pension (not
before 65) on retirement for those with
10-15 years of service, with £5OO for
those with more than 15 years’ service.
Pensions for widows also are suggested.
But even of this modest helping the
Government is very chary. It will be
“guided by the weight of opinion in the
House and by the public reaction to the
proposal.” The public reaction has been
highly critical.
New England's Freedom
Thf New-State convention at Armidale
had very bad luck. Heavy rain stopped
many from attending.
The feeling was, however, clear. If
there is any difference of opinion among
New England people it is not on the
question of whether the New England
should separate, but on how it should
separate.
From the man from Cassilis who
wished to see enthusiasm for the New
State “rise to the point of revolution,”
through all grades of moderation the
speeches reflected the vote of last Decem-
ber, which showed a majority for “Yes”
of 76.8 p.c. all round and one of nearly
88 per cent, in Liverpool Plains and
Ashford, along the Queensland border.
The main resolution moved by Mr.
Ulrich Ellis and referred to the executive
for consideration —three years ago it
would have been rejected as too radical
—accused the State Government of flout-
ing the spirit and intention of the Consti-
tution in refusing a referendum on the
question and called on the executive, in
“order to ensure that its steps are backed
with the greatest maximum degree of
power resident in the people,” to work
towards establishing a representative
assembly of New England and to deter-
mine the steps which the Assembly might
take to ensure that self-government is
granted without delay.
The extent to which the north, with its
700,000 people, its new University, and
its £2OO-million-a-year of production, is
prepared to go was clearly indicated by
another resolution which called on the
Cahill Government to surrender New
England to the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. The mover, Mr, G. Baker, said
New Englanders would prefer to become
a territory rather than continue to accept
Sydney domination. But a lot the Cahill
Government will be moved by that. The
industrial electorates of the Great Wen
which assure Mr. Cahill of continued
office live off the sheep’s and the farmers
backs, and he would as soon-surrender
it as a four-year-old would surrender a
half-sucked bull’s-eye.
The Constitution, of course, provides
in a special chapter (Chapter VI) for the
creation of new States and for the
acceptance of part of an existing State
as a territory of its own, but these ends
can be achieved “only with the consent
of the Parliament” of the original State.
The matter is so hedged about with
limitations that make every part of an
original State its eternal slave that the
chapter might just as well not be m
the Constitution.
What the Commonwealth can do is to
alter the Constitution by referendum,
and it is about time that it focused some
of its power in that matter on Chaptei
VI and allowed any region of more than,
say, 100,000 people with a given area
and the means to support local govern-
ment the right to a referendum for
((Continued on next page)


secession on the petition of a reasonable
proportion of municipalities.
The present position, under which a
region holding more population than
any State except N. S. Wales and Vic-
toria held after World War I, unified
in industrial interest and predominantly
anti-Labor in politics, has no means of
divorcing itself from the enslavement by
the rabble which calls itself a Govern-
ment in Sydney is the negation of every-
thing democratic.
A National Memorial
Although the idea of a Federated Aus-
tralia had been discussed in principle
many times before the first Convention in
1891, it is now generally agreed that it
was Henry Parkes’s Tenterfield speech of
October 24, 1889, that really set in motion
the chain of events which led 12 years
later to the birth of the Commonwealth.
A short time before that Major-General
Edwards, reporting to the British Gov-
ernment on the defence problems of the
Australian colonies, said it would not be
possible to prepare an adequate system
of defence unless the responsibility was
entrusted to a Federal body. At this,
Parkes, then Premier of N. S. Wales,
hastened to Brisbane to discuss the matter
with Premier Gillies, of Queensland. On
his way back he stopped at Tenterfield
and, in the School of Arts there, delivered
a speech in which he said that he believed
the time for Federation had come. This,
he said, meant “a distinct executive and
a distinct Parliamentary power, a Gov-
ernment for the whole of Australia; a
Parliament of two Houses, a House of
Commons and a Senate, which would
legislate on all great subjects.”
Tenterfield still looks upon itself as the
birthplace of Federation, but its pride is
tempered somewhat by the knowledge
that the building in which the speech was
delivered is beginning to feel its years
and is sadly in need of repair. A com-
mittee has been formed to raise funds to
restore the building and to convert it
into a National History Museum to
house books, pictures and other records
associated with Parkes and the other
Founders of Federation.
Leaders of all political parties have
associated themselves with the appeal,
the objective of which is £20,000. Sub-
scriptions may be sent to the honorary
secretary. Sir Henry Parkes National
Memorial Appeal, Box 4116, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Three Premiers in one day will be part
of her Majesty’s burden tomorrow week.
Premier Gair will bid her farewell to
Brisbane at 10.30 a.m. and Premier
Playford will welcome her to Adelaide at
5.30 p.m. Halfway between the two
ceremonies she will be greeted and fare-
welled at Broken Hill by—Guess who?
.. . Right! Full marks for the whole
class.
• •
That brand of stealing known as sou-
veniring reached its peak at the Royal
Ball in Melbourne. The guests were
invited to inspect the rooms which had
been prepared for the Queen and the
Duke. After the locusts had swarmed
through there was hardly a movable
article left in the rooms.
• •
Cahill s Press Gag Act has been pain-
lessly exterminated by proclamation. His
Press-Gang Act still stands, but most
unions are moving warily in the matter
of prosecutions. There’s the Federal
election on May 29.
• •
Calwell has been demanding a royal
commission into Customs administration
following charges against two officers in
connection with alleged import-licence
irregularities. His cry has been replied to
by Customs Minister O’Sullivan, who
comments that the charges involve com-
paratively junior officers and that he
recalls “Customs doings involving a per-
son of much higher authority, in respect
of which Mr. Calwell, did not ask for any
royal commission or inquiry.” Wonder
what happened to those key-chains?
• •
In England a brewing-company has
started a radio-telephone beer-delivery
service. Delivery trucks are fitted with
two-way radio and receive their instruc-
tions in the same way as P.D. cars and
radio-taxis. Sydney breweries are not
likely to adopt the plan, but what a handy
scheme it would be for Peter and George.
• •
The Commonwealth Office of Educa-
tion appears to be doing a good job in
its attempts to give New Australians an
understanding of the English language.
Judging by a recent sample lesson it is
also trying to teach the newcomers some
of our national customs. The lesson
begins with Peter, the New Australian,
entering the local employment office:
Clerk: “Good morning, sir. What can 1
do for you?”
Peter: “I’m looking for a job. I’m new to
tnis country, and I don’t know what to do or
where to go.”
Clerk: “Will you fill one of these forms in
please?”
• •
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove’s trip to
New Zealand in search of support for his
“new” Tatt.’s couldn’t have been less
successful if he’d been trying to sell ’em
mutton. Prime Minister Holland’s story
was that his Government didn’t approve
of the extension of Australian lotteries
and wouldn’t do anything to facilitate it.
Presumably this means that the “old”
Tatt.’s, now Cain’s baby, will retain the
New Zealand market.
• •
Early moves in the nerve-war in Can-
berra are gatherings of Liberal and
“Labor” policy-makers and campaign-
planners, who sometimes issue innocent
communiques, but keep their discussions
secret. The Libs, were in the capital for
the first two days of March, and gave
some thought to pacts with the Country
party and to the policy-speech and the
propaganda-front. The real fighting will
begin during the two weeks’ session in
April, and there will be a slightly awkward
gap between Easter and the policy-
speeches. Members and candidates will
be out in the electorates, and they’ll be
able to give some thought and time to
local affairs before the national issues are
raised by’the party-leaders.
• •
Should a bishop wear bathers? A
correspondent criticised the church news-
paper, “The Anglican,” for publishing a
photograph of the Bishop of North
Queensland in a swimming-costume.
Asking whether a bishop was expected
to bathe in a cassock, the paper replied
that if it was all right for a bishop in
Victorian England to be seen in cricket
togs, there was surely nothing wrong in
an Australian bishop being seen in
bathers.
On the same day that the swimming
bishop was passed for publication
another broadminded cleric wrote to
“S. M. Herald” on the six-o’clock beer-
swill. He was Archdeacon W. Ashley-
Brown, former Dean of Gibraltar, and
he said:
Owing to the identification of official
Protestantism with extreme Puritanism, the
religion of the majority has never faced the
duty of teaching its young how one of God’s
good gifts may be enjoyed in temperance
and sobriety, and that its abuse, but not
its use, is a grave sin.
That is a statement which many anti-
drink crusaders would do well to study,
though if they read the archdeacon’s
further admission that when he was vicar
of Cranbrook, in Kent, he
would occasionally drop into the George
and have a glass of beer with a friend and
enjoy a chat with the parishioners,
they would probably regard him as being
even further beyond the pale than the
bathing bishop.
• •
Albert Monk is off to Geneva to attend
yet another meeting of the International
Labor Office. It’s his 23rd trip abroad
on trade-union business, and his face must
PAPERING THE PARLOR
be just as familiar at the 1.L.0. as was
Cahill’s at N.S.W. Royal functions.
• •
“Stromlo”: Canberra Advisory Council
is still trying to make up its mind what
to recommend in the way of a revised
liquor ordinance. Perhaps it would be
more prepared to make the Territory a
guinea-pig for reformed liquor-laws if
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) were further away.
The bottle-strewn road from Queanbeyan
was famous in the days when the Terri-
tory was “dry,” and perhaps the council
fears a similar traffic in reverse if Can-
berra’s limited drinking facilities are
opened at night. However, they were
open during the Royal visit, and publicans
are reported to have been rather disap-
pointed .in the patronage. Could it be
that Canberra and Queanbeyan people, as
well as the citizens of Queensland, Tas-
mania and W.A., can be trusted to behave
even if they are allowed to drink until
10 p.m. or thereabouts?
• •
Last October, at the Liberal congress,
Menzies accused Evatt and Co. of having
“jumped on to every bandwagon that has
passed by.” At present they seem to be
standing by the wayside waiting for the
next bandwagon.
• •
Some of these so-called progressive
unions are remarkably conservative in
their thinking. Thus the reaction of the
A.E.U. to the Arbitration Court’s ruling
on margins is to urge a nation-wide one-
day stoppage as a protest. Surely these
futile protest strikes are outmoded?
• •
Melbourne University’s ragging of the
Duke seems to have succeeded in doing
what such student celebrations rarely
manage to achieve —to reach the limit of
prankish humor and buffoonery without
sliding over into bad taste. Universities
in the remaining capitals on the itinerary
will be well advised to let Melbourne
get away with it. Competition in that
field is likely to lead, at best, to boredom ;
at worst to offensiveness.
• •
Sydney City Council has more pubs
than it knows what to do with. At least,
it seems to be having difficulty in making
up its mind what to do with two or three
of 'em. After calling for tenders for the
leasing of the Palace and Covent Garden
hotels for two or five years it decided not
to accept any of the tenders, but to allow
the present lessees to continue on a
monthly basis, although in each case
there were several tenders higher than
those of the lessee.
There’s a strong suspicion that the
“Labor”-controlled council wants to hold
the two hotels as bargaining assets in
connection with their pet scheme for
turning the Hotel Sydney into a com-
munity hotel. Why the city needs a com-
munity hotel hasn’t been explained yet,
nor has the reason for the council’s
hurry—the lease of the Hotel Sydney, if
undisturbed, would expire in 1960, when,
with all improvements, it would revert
to the council.
• •
Hollway’s Electoral Reform candidates
won’t be opposing any Victorian sitting
Liberal members or Liberal candidates at
the Federal elections. Hollway says
statements to the contrary are unfounded.
• •
Sydney “Tribune” has published what
it claims is a “secret minute” of the
Department of Labor. Minister for Labor
Holt says the minute was not confidential
and was not intended for Cabinet. Ever
since “Labor” went out of office Eddie
Ward has been boasting of his sources of
information inside the Department of
Labor. If Ward can get information so
easily there’s nothing surprising in the
Comrades getting it also.
• •
N. S. Wales Liberals have announced
that they are opposed to extension of
liquor hours without a referendum. This,
says Treatt, was included in their platform
policy at the last election. It is a fair
question to ask to what extent a defeated
party is bound by its election promises.
If its policy is rejected by the electors,
surely that leaves the door wide open for
changes in policy?
As a result of the inquest into the
deaths of five people in an electric-train
collision at Sydenham (near Sydney) on
December 19, two railwaymen—the
driver of one train and a signal
electrician—have been committed for
trial on charges of manslaughter.
• •
“ ’Berra”; Menzies didn’t seem very
perturbed when his portrait in King’s
Hall was found with its throat cut; he’s
never been keen on the Wheeler portrait.
Dame Pattie doesn’t like it either, but she
was not in Canberra when this cutting
piece of political or artistic criticism was
perpetrated. A lot of Menzies’s friends
don’t care for it, but they know that a
good many unsuccessful attempts have
been made by several artists to produce
a likeness acceptable to all concerned,
including the not-always-patient sitter.
But there are far worse portraits of other
P.M.s in King’s Hall, and some greatly
criticised efforts have been relegated to
the basement. A member of the P.M.’s
staff was examining the cut in the canvas
when he was warned not to leave his
fingerprints there for the investigators.
He backed away, remarking cheerfully
that, anyway. Doc. Evatt’s portrait would
never hang in King’s Hall for anyone to
slash.
• •
Latest chapter in the cruelty-prevention
career of Evatt minor. On Friday Clive
and three officials of the R.S.P.C.A. were
summonsed to appear in a Sydney court
on charges of assault. One official had
alleged that Clive and the other two had
assaulted him ; a counter-claim said that
he had assaulted them. None of the
four turned up, so the summonses
lapsed,
• •
On the authority of the Rev. Donald
Soper, the Methodist parson who says
that all Christians should be Leftists,
Malenkov is a Liberal. So far there has
been no move by the local Liberals to
enlist the support of Georgi for the
Federal-election campaign.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T HAD this from the poet Robert D.
A Fitz Gerald, who, in his terrestrial mas-
querade, is a surveyor working in some
mysterious Government department near
Circular Quay, Sydney. “Look at that
galah sitting on the flagpole up there!”
said one of his colleagues at the Quay.
“Who’s up a flagpole? What’s the silly
goat doing?” said Fitz Gerald. “Look!”
said the colleague. He looked. It was
a galah.—“S.”
■<s*• ♦s•
“Taswegian”: Makes a man feel he
ought to wear a badge or something.
Waiting in the outpatients’ department
when the nurse poked her head in, looked
at the card in her hand, turned it upside-
down, frowned, then called: “Mr.
Pzedolwskly.” Nobody moved. She
looked over the assembled crocks;
“According to HIM We’re not the beautiful , mysterious and
elusive creatures We’re supposed to be.”
fastened her eyes on me. Now, I know
that my hair is fair, my head’s been
called German, that I was dressed in
dark pants and light coat and a new
pair of shoes I’d chosen in spite of their
light color because they were comfort-
able, anyway. But all that was no
reason for her to call coldly: “You.
What’s your name?” I answered as
coldly: “My appointment is with Dr.
Cutthroat at 3.30.” Baffled, she walked
away to find Mr. P y. I heard a
woman whisper behind me, “Don’t he
talk well!”
“Mac Hoots”; A pleasing comment on
modern art from “S. M. Herald”:
The Art Gallery Society of Western Australia
will hold an exhibition of contemporary paint-
ing during August in the Perth Art Gallery.
Four prizes, totalling 175 guineas, will be
awarded.
shortly before 4 p.m. and caused several planes
to be diverted.
“P.0.M.C.”: I can tell
“Sebak” (B. 24/2/’54) that
before I assumed control of
my temper about 25 years
back I had often been “be-
side (or outside) myself”
with rage. I particularly
remember two occasions
when I became so infuri-
ated that I was actually
conscious of another in-
sane but distinct me urg-
ing my colder saner self to
normally-unthinkable acts ;
the apparition in each
instance shocking me back
to sanity like a painful
blow. It was the second
experience of this . beserk
quality that warned me to
take a grip of myself; now
I meet with icy aplomb
annoyances which once
would have instantly
aroused my Irish anger. It
was undoubtedly with the
knowledge that an impas-
sioned ego sometimes “sees”
itself as others see it that the
old-time melodramatists
used the seemingly mean-
ingless expression.
“A. 8.”: Didn’t think
anything Spanish would
want to cut out siesta (B. 24/2/’54),
and I’ll bet it never comes about. Siesta-
time in the Latin countries is a better
signal for laying down tools than our
own five-o’clock whistle. Everything just
quietly stops: ticket-sellers at railway-
stations, regardless of trains or would-be
passengers, close their windows and
reach for the Inevitable bottle of wine;
shop doors are lazily closed; the only
sign of life on the roads is a donkey-cart,
driver on the floor sound asleep. The
break is made-up at the other end of the
day, shops staying open well into the
evening. The evening meal is eaten about
10 o’clock, and at midnight everything
is at its gayest and most noisy.
* * *
“Springvale”: Despite frequent lec-
tures from R.M.O.s on the correct use of
Shell-dressings, there were a few no-
hopers who persisted in using their issues
for anything but the purpose specified.
A favorite practice was to use ’em as
sweat-moppers, and one footslogger we
came across who had applied his to a
flesh-wound, had previously employed it
as a boot-polisher. We thought the
R.M.O, would have a fit. He was un-
perturbed. “A good coating of polish is
as good an antiseptic as any,” he said.
The wound healed in record time.
❖ ❖
“Macnell”: Destroyers have always
been fine ships for looks, and the Tribal-
class —Bataan, Arunta, Warramunga —
were the finest of all. Now nine-year-old
Bataan has been withdrawn from ser-
vice, giving way to the Anzacs and
Tobruks and modern anti-submarine
frigates. To have been called Kurnai,
altered in honor of MacArthur’s men
of the epic stoush, Bataan was named by
“Come along—you're not getting away with any of those stupid ideas."
Mrs. MacArthur on that lady’s first
public appearance in Australia. Though
commissioned too late for much fighting,
the destroyer will be remembered by
survivors of cruiser Perth —when she
steamed into Shiogama, in northern
Honshu, to take them back to life. In
1947 Rear-Admiral Farncomb, then
commodore, was in Bataan when he
received news of his promotion to flag-
rank —the ship thus becoming the first
of the R.A.N. to wear the flag of the
first graduate of the R.A.N. College to
reach that ranking. Though now obso-
lete, she was one of the heaviest-hitting
of her type in her day—three twin 4.7 in.
mountings, a brace of four-inch, multiple
torpedo-tubes and a speed of over 36
knots.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Owog”: Newly-arrived in Palestine,
I thought the British M.P.s unnecessarily
tough in discouraging Wog orange-
vendors —till personal experience altered
my views. So that I was all for a
near-by camp-guard in his treatment of
a fat teenage Wog he’d caught in the
act of thieving. Dragged into the guard-
house, the visitor was stripped nude,
whereupon the guard brandished an
enormous cook-house knife in front of
him in a manner indicating better than
words what was about to happen.
Pitiful were the screamed exhortations
to Allah and George, and in a struggle
worthy of Hollywood he was allowed to
escape into the Palestinian night. He
didn’t pull up for a mile or two —not
till the following evening were his
clothes, flung outside, recovered.
* ❖ *>
“Smithy”: Conversation with Master
Six-year-old after the children’s welcome
to the Queen in Hobart: “What did you
do?” “Yelled as loud as the other kids.”
“Did you do anything else?” “Waved
me flag.” “Anything else?” “I ate me
orange.” “Yes, but what did you see?”
“Oh, the band and the kids marching.”
“Then what?” “Some big girls dancing.”
“Yes, but didn’t you see your Queen?”
“Oh, yes. She was there, too.”
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“E. and 0.E.”: The decorations as
well as the programmes arranged for
Royal tours are usually so conventional
that the Queen must have welcomed the
variations in Tasmania. My own prefer-
ence is for the original and imaginative
•arch at Burnie, showing a life-sized
model of a Tasmanian tiger. The
creature was shown, realistically, among
native-bushes planted on top of the
arch. He very nearly joined the Navy
(with the help of some matelot admirers)
but was fortunately recovered and should
be kept as a lasting memento.
❖ ❖ *
“X.S.”: Melbourne police are still in
a daze about the Queen’s arrival. They
don’t know how a million people got into
the dty, saw the Queen, went home,
came back for the decorations and the
fireworks, and left simultaneously at mid-
night without a single unpleasant inci-
dent. They don’t know how the worst
traffic tangle in Melbourne’s history,
when 75,000 cars choked all roads lead-
ing out of the city, was untied —it can
only be concluded that Melbourne
thought it was showing Sydney an
example in polite behavior. The politest
object was the piece of plaster, about the
size of a cricket-ball, which decided to
fall off the ceiling of Queen’s Hall almost
exactly on the spot where her Majesty
was to receive the address of welcome
from the President of the Council —
three minutes before the Queen’s arrival.
£« $ ❖
“Lao-dah”: It was regrettably reported
that Loong, the Bendigo (Vic.) dragon,
would not wind his sinuous way through
the streets of that city for the Royal visit.
This was not due to lack of devotion on
the part of the local Celestial population
towards the Queen, but to shortage of
manpower. It requires a lot of legs to
propel Loong, and a lot of brains and
brawn in the head —skill and experience
are needed to manipulate him —and of
the tens of thousands of Chinese who
helped to found the golden city, only a
few are left, and they are mostly too old.
❖ ►> ❖
“Narumee”: He arrived at the top end
of our packed Melbourne road, bearing
an immense coffin-shaped box, fitted with
carrying-handles like a suitcase. This he
up-ended, clambered upon (via my step-
ladder), towered above us all, and from
his lofty viewpoint proceeded to ear-
bash everyone within earshot. About the
crowds in the city (“Awful crush. Be
quite uncontrollable. Worsen’ Sydney”);
the troops lining the route (“Not so smart,
are they? And look at all them majors
in charge of ’em —not a two-pipper in
sight! ”); the police (“Well-fed-lookin’
lot, ain’t they? Moren’ them pore
perishers of soldiers is!”); the chap
clinging precariously to an electric-light
pole (“Stupid. Some folks haven’t any
sense”); the aircraft, silver in the sun
(“No, that’s not her. Much too early”).
But it was. We braced ourselves anew,
got our flags and cushions ready to wave,
hoisted kids on shoulders. Nothing
daunted, the pest droned on, “O’course,
you’ll only catch a glimpse of her. Theyll
be makin’ up time along here —ten miles
an hour they’ll be doin’!” The troops
suddenly shouldered-arms. And there
was the Royal car, moving very slowly.
We saw the Queen, the sun turning her
hair to gold; we saw the Duke smiling
and waving. We waved, we screamed,
we roared. And then silence fell —a sort
of exhausted lull. I waited for the com-
ments which would spoil the enchanted
moment. He stood on his coffin-box, a
smile on his face, nodding his head. He
got down, picked up his box and went—
without a word.
GOOD-LOOKERS
“At the risk of starting another inter-city
argument, it should be said that Melbourne
women won the fashion honors from Sydney
women by a short head at the Royal Per-
formance at the Melbourne Princess Theatre.”
— Women’s Section editress.
A Sydney social editress
At the clothes-horse race, said
“It went to Melbourne women’s dress
By a short head.”
But Sydney girls are hard to beat
And hard to hold in check :
The whole world knows they won their
heat
By a long neck.
The tale that Sydney was out-stared
At the Melburnian ball
Is boasting we may well be spared —
Not true at all.
For Sydney sights are so suffused
With beauty, both of sea and ground.
That Sydney girls grow early used
To looking round.
Whereas . . . But now I’ve said enough
To reconcile the well-born
Well-bred, well-costumed ladies of
Sydney and Melbourne.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


'T'HE flapper next door and the woman
at the upstairs-window were dis-
cussing a report that artist Namatjira
was being obstructed and stared at
wherever he went. “He should dress
different, and go incognito,” said the
flapper.—“O.G.”
*
“Macquarie”: I’ve got it straight from
the horse’s mouth—a lavatory attendant
in Sydney’s Hyde Park. There is a sinis-
ter move afoot. Before Easter your
penny won’t get you anywhere—you’ll
want two. Whether some misguided
genius has perfected a way of transform-
ing the slot-machines into no-armed-
bandits or newfangled double-brummers
are being made on the strictly hush-hush
my informant did not divulge, but the
foreknowledge of things to come has left
me with a depressing awareness of my
lack of all business acumen. At a lecture
I once heard a business tycoon declare :
“foreknowledge can put a fortune in a
“Let me see, now. Is yours an Elizabeth or a Phil?”
smart businessman’s lap. All, I need,
any time, in order to make anything up
to ten-thousand pounds, is the know-
ledge a month before a commodity—any
commodity—makes a substantial rise in
price.” And here I am, apparently the only
outsider who has foreknowledge of the
w T T° UCh ’ an , d blow ? d if 1 ca ? out
can make a solitary zack on it!
M _ *
Bo ” : It was in the rag-shop lift. “I
had a dreadful dream about Beryl last
mght, Joan. She was drowned! I’m
not superstitious a bit, but it was all so
real. I could see her there, floating face-
down. How terrible! It’s awful when
you dream something like that. Takes a
nit!? a tor § et ib But Beryl couldn’t
drowned, she’s not on holidays or
anything. You’ll find she’s all right.”
“Oh, I know she is—l rang up before I
came out this morning to find out!”
♦!* ❖
“Pawang”: According to a health
authority who has been going into the
history of the London bombings, neurotics
stood the strain of the blitzes better than
normal people. This is understandable.
Fear of a fear makes a neurotic. If he
has something real to fear he forgets his
imaginary terrors, A man who believed in
ghosts as much as did the people of the
Middle Ages would forget them if he were
walking in a cemetery and heard the
sinister roar of a bomb.
❖ ❖
“Robbie”; We were towing up the
Hooghly, the pilot in charge as com-
petent as the rest of the splendid Hooghly
Pilot Service —in that muddy
nightmare he had to be. But
he had the peculiarity of giving
no steering-orders by word of
mouth—when he wanted the
course changed he waved his
hand in the new direction,
attracting the helmsman’s atten-
tion by a shrill .whistle. Our
helmsman was a Cockney, first-
class seaman but a bit of a
sea-lawyer, and the scowls on
his wizened face showed his!
dislike of the pilot’s novel communication
method. At a tricky bend, pilot went
into his routine. Helmsman ignored him.
A more emphatic wave and a shriller
whistle brought the same negative result.
With the bank looming, pilot burst into
speech. “Port hard-over!” he roared.
“What the hell are you up to?” With
the ship safely on the new course pilot
turned to helmsman, “Asleep at the
wheel?” he inquired wrathfully, “Didn’t
you hear me say port?” The Cockney
eyed him bleakly. “Nar, I didn’t ’ear
yer say ‘port’—’cos yer never said it.
An’ let me tell yer this. Mister. If you
give yer orders like a seaman instead of
whistlin’ like a bleedin’ canary, you an’
me’ll git on better.” Pilot choked, but
his next order was audible in the Taj
Mahal.
“An Chuidh”: On Kisimul (not Kisi-
mule) Castle, Bulletin cover, 24/2/’54,
When Roderic the Turbulent was brought
before James VI (as quoted), James ex-
pected to see a gigantic blond giant in
the best Norse tradition ; instead, there
was ushered in a “meek, benevolent-
looking old gentleman with a long white
beard.” “What the devil do you mean by
harassing the subjects of the Queen of
England?” roared James, “Well,” said
Mac Neill blandly, “I thought I’d be
doing a service to your Majesty by
annoying the woman who murdered your
mother.” “Devil take the carle,” growled
James. The MacNeills of Barra became
famed for their pride and their poverty.
It was customary when the Mac Neill had
dined for a herald to mount the castle
battlements, sound a horn and proclaim
in Gaelic: “Listen, all ye peoples, and
hear all ye nations. The great Mac Neill
of Barra having now finished his meal,
the princes of the earth may dine.”
* * *
“Ceg”: A busy suburban butcher’s-
shop: choppers and saws in vigorous
operation, bits of suet and bone flying,
tired housewives standing round like so
many cats waiting for their piece of
meat. In this fat-and-sawdust atmos-
phere, permed, manicured, immaculate,
the young female at the cash-register.
Came a lull in the chopping. “Yes,
Alma, I’m cornin’ to the darnce ternight,
but Lord knows what I’ll look like when
I git there. The Old Man’s takin’ the
car to the dogs, so I’ll have to come on
me bike. But there’s nothing uppish
about me—l’ll be there.” It was she
of the cash-register, confiding to her
cobber, and I thought her lack of the
deadly sin of Pride most commendable.
Not many young women holding such
a position in such a way would stoop
to biking it, and it pleased me to think
she would be safe on the machine —
pride always coming before a fall.
“Quick! Duck in! Here comes the beach-inspector."
“Harbel”: I agree with “Casey” that
misplacement of emphasis is a major sin
in oratory (B. 17/2/’54), but, alas, crime
does pay, even murder —if the Queen’s
English is the victim. I recall that a
certain American became a world figure
with a bank-balance as heavy as his
own misplaced emphasis, and all because
he habitually delivered himself of pas-
sages in this vein: “And so. It is with
mixed feelings. Of pleasure and regret
that we say. Farewell. To the beautiful
island of Ballyblurb. Where. The kind
and lovable people. Are.” etc.
“Piper”: Prize of the month for busi-
ness acumen goes to the firm whose pro-
duct I formerly bought for one shilling.
Last month they made it an ounce
lighter, reduced the price by a penny, and
now advertise “The New Monster Whosis,
Same Quality, Now Only lid.” And
who shall call them liars?
<s* <s*
“Rooster”: Always reckoned I’d make
a better sailor than soldier. Finding out
I was right cost me two successive guard-
duties on the troopship’s-boob, because
most of the remaining no-hopers were
down to the ship’s pitching. Unluckily,
the lifting and falling in a heavy swell,
added to long hours, sent me nodding.
Unluckily, the major wasn’t nodding.
Up before the C.O. next morning, I
found the sea. looks after its own. He
absorbed the evidence, and grunted:
“Can’t expect any man to do what I
couldn’t do myself.” Case dismissed,
with the C.O, struggling to retain his
dignity behind a handkerchief.
❖ ❖
“Z.L.”: ' Christchurch (N.Z.), tram-
ridden for many years, has been getting
rid of them by painless piecemeal
methods. As each fine is ripped up, the
hardwood sleepers are auctioned to far-
mers for fence-posts; rails and cables
sell well as scrap; and the trams and
trailers, minus wheels and fittings, are
fetching up to £6O a time. Some have
ended-up by the seaside, one is being
used as a church, others make good fowl-
houses, and a battered old model has
mysteriously appeared on an aerodrome
a good hundred miles away.
“Vingter”: In our Melbourne suburb
we have called ourselves blessed in pos-
sessing that rarissima avis a rubbish-man
who carefully restores lids to garbage-
cans and gently deposits them where he
finds them. He has even been known to
enter a yard after a can which a house-
holders forgot to put out! Then, by an
amazing metamorphosis, garbage-cans
were hurled along garden paths, those not
placed on the footpath were ignored, and
scowls replaced his usual greetings.
Happily, on the Monday, Dr. Jekyll was
back, explaining apologetically: “I’m
sorry I was a bit cranky last week. It
was that damn’ beer strike!”
A A A
“Wusslean”: When my eldest son
started school and began turning-out
handwriting almost as illegible as his
father’s, I concluded that handwriting,
like mental-arithmetic, spelling and the
learning of poetry, was regarded as of
negligible importance in modern educa-
tion. I consoled myself with the reflec-
tion that the typewriter had made pen-
manship of little value commercially.
This year the youngster started at one
of Melbourne’s leading public-schools —
and came home with an exercise-book in
which the good old-fashioned loops and
pot-hooks had been laboriously in-
scribed. “Yes, regular writing-lessons.
Dad,” he told me. “Sir’s very fussy
about our writing.” It’s got me bluffed.
Have the New Education potentates
decided there’s something in writing well,
after all, or it is merely public-school
conservatism? Anyhow, young Wuss-
lean’s writing has improved 200 per cent,
overnight.
* ❖ *
“Elleff”: There had been trouble over
a boiler which had been dropped —and
cracked—in the unloading. At the inquiry
the foreman was questioned. “Was the
boiler too big to handle?” asked the
chairman of the board. “No, not too
big,” answered the foreman. “Was it too
heavy?” Same answer and more ques-
tions. Finally, the chairman put it to
him. “What the hell was. the cause of
the mishap?” “Well, sir,” replied the
foreman, “I can’t rightly say, unless it
was the awkwidity of the thing?”
* ❖ *l*
“Giris”: Off Invergorden (Scotland),
H.M.A.S. Sydney was riding-out a
storm. Too rough for anything else, the
mess turned-in to sleep. An hour later
the port emergency dynamo alongside
the mess shut down. We all woke. It
was too quiet to sleep, though we sat for
hours trying. It was only after a 44-
gallon drum broke adrift in the hangar
and rattled across the steel deck like an
original Model “T” over empty kerosene-
cans that we all drifted back into dream-
land.
♦s* ❖ *
I was sitting in a new neigh-
bor’s lounge-room nattering the time
away with her, when suddenly the
heavy double-glass doors behind me
swung silently open. I looked quickly
up, then back. Surprised at seeing no-
one, I stared into my hostess’s face.
“Oh, that’ll be Gappy!” said she with a
smile. “We oil the doors specially for
him, that’s why you didn’t hear them.”
“Gappy?” I said weakly. “But I didn’t
see anyone.” “Oh, Gappy doesn’t stop
to talk to mere humans when he’s
a-visiting!” “No,” I muttered politely,
thinking it best to humor her. “He’s so
full of his own importance,” she explained,
“and he’s always so hungry, he goes
straight to the kitchen for his supper.
Do come and meet him! He’s such a
darling!” And so he was —a black
kitten, daintily picking over a saucerful
of baked bunny.
NATURALLY
“Man’s achievement in nearly every sphere
of his activities has from the earliest times
been due in great measure to the persuading,
urging hand of woman.”— Feminist speaker.
Who ate the first bunny,
Or tried the first honey.
In first diving-helmet sank under?
The big hairy caveman
Who hunted —O brave man ! —
The first dinosaurus —a blunder !
Explorer so fearless
In dark jungle cheerless ;
Who picked up the first gun and fired
it —
Say! Could one endeavor
Have patently ever
Been, but for some dame who inspired
it?
You're painting the woodwork,
Or putting in good work
By lino, so carefully laying;
The mower you're bashing.
Repairing the flashing.
You’re polishing, cleaning and
spraying ;
You’re fixing a puncture —
But here at this juncture
Reflect! It’s all due to the urging
Of woman. That’s something
That you, oh poor dumb thing,
Have nary a hope of submerging.
Had woman not prodded
Man on, he’d have nodded
His life away, somnolent, stupid.
All his vigor and bustle.
His verve, dash and hustle
He owes to her, servant of Cupid.
She’s never been tiring
Of strongly inspiring;
Her hand’s been the gentle
persuader . . .
May I call your attention
To one fact I’ll mention ?
A dividend handsome it’s paid her!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


NPNB6B
ħ
h
on
TAA
S Pf&SSORISED
GONVAIR and DC6 SERVICES
__ f
■?iuTAA
119 Phillip St., Sydney. BO 526
.
PERSONAL ITEMS
There would seem to be as much of
numismatic magnetism in Professor
Messel’s make-up as of nuclear physics-
following on Adolph Basser’s gift of
£50,000 to Messers department at Sydney
University, G. B. S. Falkiner has come up
with an equal sum.. Himself an engineer-
ing graduate of the University, Falkiner
is known throughout the wool-world as
the owner of Haddon Rig, Warren
(N.S.W.). As active in the city, he estab-
lished businesses which range from
manufacturing air-conditioning plant,
swimsuits, parachutes and engineering
gear, to blowfly-disinfectant and the re-
tailing of cockatoo-birdseed. Like Basser,
he races horses.
• •
The man who’s put the tents round
Tenterfield (N.S.W.), 34 - year - old
Laurence Lawrence can safely claim he’s
been prospecting all his life. At the ripe
old age of five he was caught panning for
gold in the Ma State’s Macquarie River
at Narromine. That first mining venture
was unsuccessful, but since then Lawrence
has increased his know-how to the tune
of a lecturership in geology at Sydney’s
University of Technology. Last
December, while pottering through New
England mineral deposits at Torrington
(his eye mainly on a thesis for a
doctorate), he sighted uranium samples.
Hence the present rush to peg-out the
one-time tin-town. Claiming that he
first discovered uranium in the area some
three years ago, Lawrence, at his Ashfield
(Sydney) home, mounts a valuable collec-
tion of minerals, one of the State’s largest.
It’s all nicely cased, except for one exhibit,
sitting alone on a shelf —a dull-green rock
of uranium-ore.
• •
Reached three-score year and thirty.
Most Rev. Daniel Mannix, Chaplain-
General of the A.M.F., Vicar-Delegate to
United States forces, R.C. Archbishop of
Melbourne since 1917. Though still erect,
he has abandoned his famous daily walk
from Raheen in Kew to St. Patrick’s
Cathedral. And reckons he’s never taken
a bottle of medicine in his life.
• •
That affinity between medicine and
music which has been marked by so many
instances —the most famous case was the
Russian composer Alexander Borodin,
who pursued both professions concur-
rently all his adult life' —has a notable
exemplar in Professor Charles Lambie,
who for 23 years has occupied the Bosch
Chair of Medicine at Sydney University.
A Scot, he graduated from' Edinburgh
University with high distincton and was
the only gold-medallist of his year when
he wrote the thesis which notched him
his M.D. Soon in a consultant practice in
Edinburgh, he also became assistant to
the Professor of Medicine of his old
Alma Mater. He saw service in the First
World War, went to India on research
work, and by chance occupied the house
which had once sheltered Sir Edwin
Arnold, in whose long poem The Light of
Asia he found inspiration for some of
his most felicitous melodies—given a
most successful hearing some 18 months
back at the Sydney Con. testimonial con-
cert for Clement Hosking. Professor
Lambie has a particular talent for the
song-form, leaning to the gracefulness of
classicism in style rather than to the con-
temporary mode. He has set a swag of
Scots ballads as songs, and also has some
serious works for the piano to his credit.
• •
Appointed to look after the commercial
affairs of Westralian railways, R. E. B.
Lee, a smiling, high-domed 54, worked
for railway companies in the U.S. for
several years before returning in 1935 to
become auditor of accounts for the Vic-
torian Railways. Since 1948 head of
Westralian railways’ accounts and
audit department, in his new job he will
wrestle with the problems of line-main-
tenance and dieselising.
Eight years after its foundation (1878)
by Kelso King, the Mercantile Mutual
Insurance. (Sydney) took on its staff Denis
Manion, and he established branches of
the office throughout Australia. He
retired in 1932 and died in 1943. In 1948
his son, Cecil Manion, became general-
manager, and he retired from the posi-
tion on February 28 this year, prior to
going overseas. During Cecil Manion’s
general-managership annual premium in-
come grew from £874,663 to £3,115,456
a record rate of expansion. Capital in
the same time jumped from £400,000 to
£1,000,000. Succeeding Cecil is his
brother, N. E. Manion. The family asso-
ciation with the company thus continues
after 68 years.
• •
John Allcot, the marine artist who has
put on canvas most types of craft, from
clippers to cruisers, recently completed
a painting of the Cutty Sark, It has been
accepted by the Duke of Edinburgh, on
behalf of the Cutty Sark Preservation
Trust, of which body the Duke is
president.
• •
“Ek Dum’s” biography:
Brigadier John Rowstone Stevenson, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., E.D., who becomes N. S. Wales Clerk
to the Parliaments, was one of the youngest
brigadiers in the British Commonwealth Armies
of World War 11, having been born on
October 7, 1908, and elevated from command
of the 2/3 Battalion in 1943. His enlistment-
number was NX 49.
He made his name in the Syrian operations —
the taking of Fort Goybet, capture oi
Damascus, the battle of Damour. It IS
sprinkled through Volume II of the War
History of those operations like plums in a
shearers’ Christmas-pudding.
By way of reward they sent him to com-
mand the Merauke area in Dutch New Guinea,
a delectable tract of country consisting of
half mud and half crocodiles, with an icing of
anopheles. Success there earned him the Order
of Oranje Nassau, and naturally led to his
being sent to command more mud and rain
at the head of the 11th Brigade, part of a force
maintained in Bougainville, and next to take
the surrender of Nauru and Ocean Island, after
which he returned to his quiet and ceremonious
job of Usher of the Black Rod with added
smartness that lent vim to the three knocks
with which he was wont to summon the
Assembly to the opening of the House.
Much of the added comfort of Parliament
House has been due to his vigor as its con-
troller in the last few years, and the dignity
of the opening of Parliament by the Queen
resulted largely from the Stevenson touch in
organisation.
Commanding the sth Brigade, C.M.F., for
a term after his return, he was one of the
BRIGADIER
influences which have made the N. S. Wales
United Service Institution the largest and
liveliest of its kind in the British Common-
wealth outside the United Kingdom. He was
one of the founders of its journal, is a member
of its council and executive and chairman of
its library committee, hobbies that mitigate
the dullness of friendly life with Mr. Cahill
and domesticity in a secluded garden behind
Parliament House, where no sound breaks the
stillness save, on one side, the yawps of a
thousand Communists and 1500 teetotallers who
assemble at his front-gate to air their views
every Sunday afternoon, and, on the other, the
ringing of division bells.
The most Australian piece of decora-
tion of the Royal Tour of Victoria, and
the one involving most artistic effort, was
done by a Hungarian, Stefan Hadanich,
a survey-draughtsman with the State
Electricity Commission at Yallourn. It
consists of an archway crowded with
Australian fauna nestling amongst Aus-
tralian flora, carved in wood and painted.
Platypus, koala, lyrebird, pelican, spotted-
owl, Major Mitchell cockatoo, bandicoot,
dingo and wombat to the number of 67.
A bass baritone as well as an artist,
Hadanich first got his interest in Aus-
tralian birds and beasts from Hungarian
schoolbooks.
• . •
R. L. Murray, Under-Secretary of the
Queensland Treasury, with 26 years in
the Auditor-General’s Department and
for a time the Deputy Auditor-General-
ship backing him, steps into the Auditor-
Generalship. Other public-service experi-
ence takes in membership of the Peak
Downs food scheme, the Industries
Assistance Board and the Southern
Electric Authority Board. Brother I. A.
Murray is chairman of the Coal Refer-
ence Board.
• •
Met in Perth after 64 years’ absence
from Australia, William Carr, mining-
engineer, has added a trans-ocean trip by
air to the many ways of
travelling used in a busy
lifetime. South Australian
by birth he left Adelaide
with his father for South
Africa when eight years
old. Father built the first
gasworks in the Transvaal,
in 1889. Carr himself has
worked on Rand mines,
made jungly journeys by coach, train,
car and in the saddle. Some of his most
dangerous treks on horseback were made
when swapping shots with Boer com-
mandoes, about the turn of the century.
A still-wiry 72, he hopes to be in Adelaide
for the Royal visit.
• •
“Uramao”: After 14 years as Director
of Magnetic Survey in Christchurch
(N.Z.), H. F. Baird has called it a day.
His post-war survey of New Zealand and
sub-Antarctic islands won him great
kudos in scientific circles, and following
that job he got on to a magnetic survey,
backed by the Air Department, of islands
from Norfolk Island to Bora Bora, in
Tahiti. Enzed earthquakes also came
under his notice, which beasties he sought
to track to their lairs, in the process in-
ducing the Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research to bring its seismo-
logical equipment up-to-date. He’ll
remain magnetic with chairmanship of
the Public Service Association (Christ-
church), of the Civil Service Institute,
representation on Canterbury University
College and membership of the Museum
Trust.
• •
Better known as “Rusty,” William
Ruthven, M.L.A. for Preston, was one
member who caught the Queen’s eye at
the opening of the Victorian Parliament
—wearing, as he was, his V.C. He was
a sergeant when he won it, at Ville-sur-
Ancre, in War I, for conspicuous bravery
which occupies almost a column in the
citation. It began with his assumption of
command when his captain was killed in
an assault by the 22nd Battalion; Rusty
silenced a machine-gun single-handed,
killed one of the crew and captured the
others, then rushed another position,
shooting two and capturing thirty. He
was a major at the finish.
• •
Mrs. Isabella Woodruff, who collapsed
and died at the Royal Ball at Melbourne
Exhibition Building, was a pioneer of
domestic science. A daughter of Profes-
sor John Glaister, of Glasgow University,
she was principal of the Glasgow College
of Domestic Science before coming to
Australia as principal adviser to the
Emily McPherson College of Domestic
Economy. She was the wife of Professor
Woodruff, former Professor of Bacteri-
ology at Melbourne University.
The name Gandon in Dublin, where it
is associated with much of the city’s
stateliest architecture, has the same signi-
ficance as that of Francis Greenway in
Sydney, Sydney John Gandon, now
retiring, a member of the great Irish
architects clan, is, however, Australian-
born, and came out of Fort-street school,
Sydney, to join the Bank of N. S. Wales,
Ever since banking and nothing but bank-
ing has been his life. He served in London
during the depression period, 1929-32, in
which years he well earned his promotion
to be city inspector in Sydney. In 1934
he went to Melbourne as manager,
BANKER
graduated to the Victorian inspectorate
and then to be chief inspector. During the
difficult period of the fight against the
Chifley banking legislation he carried a
heavy load and later stepped naturally
into the g.-m.-ship. He is the antithesis
of the popular idea of a great banker —
simple, unassuming and friendly, with a
keen sense of humor and great kindliness
of spirit. Few would guess that the quiet,
greying toiler who occasionally has been
noticeable in his shirt-sleeves mowing the
lawn of the footpath in front of his house
at Neutral Bay with a £2 10s. mower is
the executive head of one of the greatest
and oldest financial institutions in the
British Commonwealth.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Auckland, at 77, while holidaying in New
Zealand, Brigadier-General Sir Thomas Jack-
son, D.S.O. and Bar. From his ancestral home
at Herringfleet Hall, Lowestoft, Suffolk, he
joined the British Army in 1897, served jn the
Boer War, was military secretary to Sir Archi-
bald Hunter, Governor of Gibraltar, and later
to his successor, Sir Herbert Miles, and com-
manded a battalion in France in War I. One
of his two sons was killed in action in War 11.
At 68, at Frankston (Vic.), William Leslie
Bowles, who designed the King George V
Memorial and Monash Memorial in Melbourne
and helped on the Australian War Memorial.
Sydney-born, he was a pupil of Bertram Mac-
Kennal, won a travelling-scholarship ana
studied at the R.A. School in London till War 1
broke out, when he served to the Armistice
with a British regiment. He exhibited at the
R.A. before settling in Melbourne.
In Canberra, Captain R. C. Garsia, who, as
boarding-officer from H.M.A.S. Sydney, ac-
cepted the surrender of the Emden at Cocos
in 1914. He was later Administrator at Nauru.
In Tokyo, Reverend Mother Mary Sheldon,
daughter of Dr. William Sheldon, of Armidale
(N.S.W.), and sister of Sir Mark and Dr. Strat-
ford Sheldon. For 11 years she had held offices
in her Order in Australia and New Zealana,
then shifted to Japan, where she was to work
assiduously for the next 37 years founding,
in Tokyo, a training-college f9r Japanese
teachers, a huge convent at Sumiyoshin, out-
side Kobe, and, in Shanghai, a university-
college, a secondary-school and a purely
Chinese school, which, before the advent o
the Communists, was turning out 10(H) pupus
a year. Her convent in Tokyo, headquarters
of the Order, was largely destroyed by bomD-
ing in War IL She had since completely
restored it.
In Sydney, Herbert Hopkins, 41 of whose 62
years were given to the P.M.G.’s Departme
in Perth, Melbourne and Sydney. For some
years Superintendent of Mails in Melbou
and Sydney, he had a hand in installing me
sorting-equipment which now handles me va»
intake of mail. Lieutenant in War I, when tie
was severely gassed, he was colonel m war ,
and retired two years ago.


WALKIE-WALKIE


ABORIGINALITIES
/'"'AR-THIEVES, like Romeos, laugh at
locksmiths, but one “Wallaby” Joe,
halfcaste Kanaka from north of Cairns
(Q.), mastered them. The sight of his
sft.-something of red-bellied black snake
provided would-be purloiners with suffi-
cient deterrent, especially as the reptile
invariably moved over the warm spot
under the wheel when Joe got out. On
the insistence of the police, Joe’s serpent
had been defanged, but car-thieves (com-
mon thereabouts in the sugar season)
seemed unaware of the fact, or reluctant
to find out. —“Pigskin Bagman.”
♦ * * ♦
“H. A.L.”: Strange that our fish-
acclimatisation societies don’t do more
towards rearing the Murray cod, one of
the finest freshwater food-fishes in the
world. Experiments have shown that it
is no more difficult to strip eggs and
sperm from cod than from trout, and
drum-nets make it easy to catch the
parent fish. The ypung fish must be kept
in tanks at least 25ft. deep at one end ;
they die in shallow ponds. In the day-
time the youngsters hide in the deepest
part of the tank, but at dusk and dawn
they come into the shallows to feed.
They thrive on chopped, fresh raw liver
mixed with pieces of freshwater mussel.
It doesn’t take a cod Jong to attain a
length of 12in.-15in., and then it can be
put into the main stream to look after
itself.
♦ ♦ * *
“Kerba”; I doubt if any substance
has become so much a part of modern
life as the übiquitous plastic, and now a
North Coast (N.S.W.) banana-grower has
placed an order for £5OO-worth. Until
recently the practice had been to protect
young bananas from sun-scorch by
covering bunches with hessian, but one
grower, finding himself short of a
covering, draped a bunch with a piece of
plastic he happened to have handy.
When, several days later, he returned
with hessian he was amazed to find that
the plastic-covered bunch had developed
bigger and better hands of bananas;
moreover, the big ones extended lower
down the bunch than was normal. His
experiments led to the C.5.1.R.0. taking
an interest and establishing the following
facts: Clear plastic over the bunches
makes absolutely no difference to the
bananas; red causes them to wither and
scorch; yellow improves the growth
slightly; but sunlight shining through
green or blue plastic increases the size
of the bananas and shortens the period
of growth amazingly. Hence the array
now turning banana-plantations into
color-splashed hillsides.
* * * *
“Another Gumsucker”: I know of two
instances in N.S.W. where the single
corrugated-iron sheets of the ’nineties
are still doing service (B. 17/2/’54). One
is the old weatherboard building known
as the Traveller’s Inn, a short distance
south of Myrtle Creek, near Picton, on
the Hume Highway. The other is an
old coaching inn about half a mile north
of the Bong Bong River on the road be-
tween Bowral and Moss Vale. This old
building at one time belonged to the
Throsbys, and the estate belonging to it
was known as The Briars.
* m * *
“Spearmaniac”: In the Hollywooden
cinemascope “Beneath the 12-Mile Reef”
the prosaic workaday world of the diver
is, as usual, misrepresented as a world
of monsters waiting, just waiting, to bite
through or strangle the human interloper.
Bad enough; but then the diver got an
attack of the bends. Now blood, like any
liquid, will dissolve much greater quanti-
ties of gas under high pressure, and when
this pressure is reduced too quickly by
a too-rapid ascent from the bottom,
bubbles form which may lodge in the
joints, causing pain, or in the heart or
brain, causing death. The only treatment
is to put the patient in a recompression-
chamber or send him dew* to the depths
again so that the bubbles will be reab-
sorbed. Then the pressure is reduced by
“staging,” using double the decompres-
sion-times that would normally apply.
This, at least, is how the Navy does it.
But not Hollywood. It packed the poor
diver in ice until the shore was reached,
then gave him a gas, presumably oxygen,
to breathe. Treating the bends by turn-
ing the poor bloke into an ice-block
seemed a bit far-fetched to me. But the
scene finished on a note which I had no
trouble in accepting as authentic. The
diver died.
* • * *
“P.W.R.”: As an ex-inspector of
explosives, I’d say that “Columba” (B.
17/2/’54), who had a box of gelignite in
his storeroom which had been there for
years and which mice had got at, was
very lucky. “Jelly” can be dangerous if
carelessly handled or carelessly, stored,
and that danger doubles with age. To
destroy such gelignite 1 would advise
digging a shallow trench in line with
“You’re improperly dressed —it doesn’t say anything about white ties.”
the direction the wind is blowing, then
spreading the plugs along the trench. In-
sert the end of a couple of feet of fuse
{uncapped) into a plug at the end of the
trench furthest away from the point
the wind is blowing from, light the fuse,
and then beat it pronto! Practical experi-
ence suggests that a sprinkling of kero,
on the primer-plug is an advantage.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Bacon-whacker”: Abos of a Cape
York tribe, when one or two stonefish
have been sighted on the reef, construct
“Thanks a lot, George."
a lifelike model of the monstrosity in
clay. This is ceremoniously obliterated
on the beach by having a steady stream
of seawater poured on it from a “bucket-
chain” of wooden coolamans, kerosene-
tins, billies and waterbags, till not a
smear of clay besmirches the sand. Don’t
know the symbolism involved, but the
reef is then held to be safe for bare-
footed spearsmen and shell-hunting
lubras. Part of one initiation ceremony
in the same area involves a clay model
of the same terror, but this is sunbaked,
and later battered to dust with a waddy.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: My contention that
“bee-eater” is a good name for the rain-
bow-bird (B. 17/2/’54) was based on the
fact that these birds eat bees. There’s no
doubt about that, as “Cplumba” will see
if he examines a nest. By far the biggest
proportion of skeletons will be those of
hive-bees, with blowflies a poor second.
Serventy reports that, of 2753 head-cap-
sules of various insects found in one nest,
1747 were of hymenoptera, mostly hive-
bees. Let “C.” examine a rainbow-bird
when it pauses in its feeding, preferably
just as it enters the mouth of its nest.
He’ll see bee-stings along the sides of its
beak, proof not only that it catches bees
but that it knows how to deal with them.
Apparently it catches them side-on in
flight, and squeezes the sting out before
eating the rest of the body.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: They’ve found a
patch of Canada-thistle at Walpole, in
W.A.’s lower south-west, and they’re try-
ing to eradicate it before it spreads.
They’ll have to move fast. This weed is
a member of the Composites, the largest
group of plants in the world, and they
seem determined to stay that way. Their
chief weapon is the efficiency with which
they produce and distribute seed. Com-
posite flower-heads aren’t single flowers.
They’re inflorescences, formed of num-
bers of florets, each a complete flower
in itself, and each capable of producing
pollen and setting a seed. That makes
for a comparatively big splash of color
and an attractive display of pollen, and
the system works so well that a single
plant can set up to 200,000 seeds. More-
over, they have a safeguard against
weather conditions. The flowering pro-
cess of each inflorescence is gradual, the
florets usually commencing to mature
from the outside and working in to the
centre. So if bad weather keeps tbs
bees from working for a few days the
head will still set some seed. Further,
each seed gets a good chance to ger-
minate. Instead of dropping to the base
of the parent plant, it leaves airborne,
attached to a few hairs that act as a para-
chute. When this structure dries, some-
times miles from the plant, a ring loosens,
the seed detaches from the parachute and
drops to the ground point-first. Taken
all round, the Composites have a fair
chance of inheriting the earth—or at
least of clothing it.
“B. A. Ker”: The old brick copper
stands out in the open in the paddock
as though quarantined, fully 60 paces
from the house, not even a sheet of
corrugated-iron to protect it or its user
from the weather. Its chimney bows as
if in grief that more smoke comes out
of the door and various cracks than
from the rightful outlet. On washing-
days the good lady can be seen carrying
the water to it in kerosene-tins, stoking
the fire with long saplings or emerging
like a genie from an enveloping pall of
thick smoke. In the background stand
the tumbledown old bails, a slab-built
barn in even worse condition and an
ancient tipdray with one wheel collapsed;
while activity around the copper never
fails to bring the big Illawarra bull to
the adjacent rickety post-and-rail fence,
where, with lowered head and wicked,
red eyes glowering, he spends hours bel-
lowing threats at the smoke, copper,
missus, or all three. But last week some-
thing happened that shook him to his
cloven hooves. And he wasn’t the only
one. There is something rather startling
about the sight of a brand-spanking-
new steel rotary-clothesline standing in
that setting.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Nimrod”: Near the mouth of Wes-
tralia’s Murray River, I observed, within
an hour, eight different species of birds
in the one tree: a kookaburra, a pair of
magpies, a butcher-bird, a honey-eater,
a mistletoe-bird, two hornbills, several
“twenty-eights” and a red-capped parrot.
Darwin did better when he spotted a
dozen species in a like period, as reported
in his Voyage, but then he was walking
through a Brazilian forest, while I was
taking it easy under an Australian she-
oak. In six days 20 different species
touched-down on the same tree, all
more-or-less amiably disposed to one
another,
* ♦ * *
“Benbow”: Saw a boilermaker learn
how right “Bogaduck” was about den-
sity and viscosity (B. 10/2/’s4> He
slipped off a staging and fell into a Navy
oil-fuel tank filled to within about sft.
of the top with heavy black fuel-oil.
Being viscous, the oil was harder than
water to swim in; being lighter in den-
sity, it was easier than water to sink in.
We fished him out and washed him in
kero, after he had learned his first lesson
in physics the very hard way.
THE WESTERN RIVER
By the coolibahs and the willows set
As softened sun-soaked knots at the waist
Of the land the channel deeply binds,
Holding the wide body of the west
In a belt of green against white heat,
The river’s cord of water winds.
And just beyond the border bridge
In a bend of cloven earth and rocks,
The seeking currents curl and twist
In torsions of rippling plaits and shocks,
Straining, repulsed, at the bank’s hard edge,
Then loosening in sound with the swirl of a
mist.
This is the inland’s pasturage,
The coolly-flowing fibre that slaked
The first explorer’s slag-like thirst,
And still to mouths saliva-caked,
Struggling in from death’s dry rage,
Gives sweet food and the shade of rest.
And the plump apostle-birds build here
Brown nests from the mud of the reaches, sure
Of time to breed and place to chatter;
And the drover stooped at his riverside fire
Drinks in that same soft soak of air
And honors the strength of the winding water.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


A PERTH woman pickled some figs.
The recipe required that the whole
figs be soaked in vinegar for three days,
after which the vinegar was drained off
and boiled. The figs were then bottled
and the hot vinegar poured over them.
After all this had been done fruit-fly
grubs emerged alive and vigorous.
Illustrating, I suppose, why you should
never bury infested fruit. The moth will
emerge from 6ft. down.—“ Bass.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Old Camp”: When he went to war
Binghi fought with the spear. His kylies
he used for hunting, and not only against
animals —he had a special one for fish.
I have seen this used against mullet, and
the kills he can make among a shallow-
swimming school is astonishingly high.
As for his making the return jkylie
merely as a toy (B. 3/2/’54) —don’t make
me laugh! Binghi was a stern utilitarian ;
the only thing he made that had no
apparent use was the peeled and scraped
wands for a grave—and even those had
a spiritual value. Possibly those who
talk about the war-kylie that would not
return are mixed in their ideas with the
dowark, the throwing-stick proper. Bent
somewhat like a kylie, it was round and
could be thrown with deadly force and
accuracy, but it certainly would not
return.
* * * *
'O. K. Lee”; The motor-cyclist in New
Guinea who scared off an attacking boar
with his tooter (B. 17/2/’54) would be
well advised before travelling that route
again to adopt a different method of
transport. That trick won’t work twice.
Now, if he could train a cassowary as a
mount he’d be right; that large fowl is
the only living thing for which the
marauding boar has any respect. The
boar is partial to cassowary googs, but
he can’t stand his ground in the presence
of the bereft hen, whose razor-sharp
spurs, delivered with a powerful kick,
are capable of ripping his hide as easily
as through tissue-paper.
• * * «
Nimrod”: Dusky Katie had returned
from one of her walkabouts to find that
her place had been temporarily taken by
a white girl from the township. “Look
how well May kept the floor polished,”
said her mistress, thinking to improve
the shining hour. “She could see her
face in it.” Katie glowered at the dark,
polished jarrah. “Aw, it can’t ’ave that
much of a polish on it, missus,” she
protested. “I can’t see mine!”
* * * «
( “Kros”: The tawny frogmouth didn’t
hgure-out” its protective device of
freezing into immobility to resemble
dead timber (B. 17/2/’54). Common
to insects as well as to birds, that
developed through an unconscious
process lasting over millions of
years. Another example is the stick-
“Y ou can’t park here—or swim there."
M^te^d iC hv r S"! bleS a bit ° f l tick whel ?
stick-msects which most resembled
sticks deceived more often a prospective
attacker, and thus were saved; conse-
quently they and their descendants sur-
vived while their less-like-a-stick relatives,
lacking such protection, eventually died
out. _ So, after numberless icons, the whole
species has now inherited the charac-
teristic. The whole process is simply
what biologically is known as “natural
selection” at work.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Swelpme”; Can’t agree that the
springhead nail solved the problem of
fixing corrugated-iron on roofs (B.
17/2/’54). It runs a poor second to the
lead washer and galvanised screw. Inves-
tigate any sheet of flapping iron or length
of lifted ridge-capping and it’s pdds-on
that the cause can be traced to a spring-
head which has eased its grip with the
seasoning of the timber and allowed the
iron room to “work.” Screws, unless put
in with the “Yank’s screwdriver”—a
hammer—very seldom lift, and also they
can be extracted without trouble and with
no damage to the sheet. Springheads can
be perverse enough to hold fast just when
you don’t want them to, and the conse-
quences don’t enhance the remover’s
chances of an ultimate seat in heaven, nor
improve the corrugations on the sheet he
is trying to get off.
♦ ♦ ♦ «
“Kelms”: Throughout Australia vari-
ous trees are called sandalwood with more
or less justification, and I’d say that a
“snow-white wood” such as “J.J.A.”
describes (B. 17/2/’54) would have rather
less than more. The true sandalwood-
tree, Santalum album, grows chiefly in
India. The nearest approach to it in Aus-
tralia is Fusanus spicatus, the “fragrant”
or “Swan River” sandalwood of W.A.
The oil is considerably more fragrant
than that of the Indian tree, but the frag-
rance is more transient. The color of
the wood varies from yellow to brown,
with dark stripes. A lot was exported
from Fremantle, going to India for carv-
ing and to China for joss-sticks. Defin-
itely, it is semi-parasite.
♦ * * as
“Brick E.”; The cottage had been com-
pleted less than a year when the chimney-
flashing began to leak. Mystified, we
took off half-a-dozen tiles behind the
stack, exposing the back-gutter, and found
that the lead had been pierced by scores
of tiny holes. Lifting it and inspecting
the piece of six-by-one hardwood under-
neath, we discovered the vandal—the
lyctus beetle. The lyctus lays her eggs on
unseasoned sapwood; small borers hatch
out, eat their way inwards, and live on
the starch in the sap—solid timber is never
attacked because it contains no starch.
When the summer returns, the borers
become beetles and bore their way out to
the sunlight. This particular piece of
six-by-one had an edge of sapwood
which Lyctus had selected as an
incubator. The depositor was not
to know that her offspring would have
the task of boring through 31b. lead, but
they succeeded nevertheless—not a bad
performance from creatures no bigger
than and remarkably similar to unboiled
tea-leaves.
*« * *
“Hostile”: We had felled a tree for
firewood, and out of a smashed limb a
possum dashed. It darted into a hoi-
“ Somebody's thinking about me.”
low, but was out again in a second, the
jaws of a brown snake attached to its
bare rump. The animal escaped, sprang
on to the bole of a 50ft. palm-tree and
started to climb rapidly. About 40ft. up
it appeared to falter badly, struggled up
to the top, then crashed to the ground
dead. I’d always had respect for the
lethal quality of a brown’s poison, but
didn’t know the action could be so swift.
* * * *
"Emjai”; When the old Poverty Mine
tailings at Tarnagulla (Vic.) were being
cyanided the boss instituted incentives.
The huge vats of sand, sft, to 6ft. deep,
had rails, carrying trucks, across the top,
and, after the cyanide-solution containing
the gold had been drained-off, the empty-
ing of the sand was by long-handled
shovel into the trucks above. Not so bad
while the vat was full, but as it neared
bottom the lift was the height of the vat
plus the height of the truck; heavy
going at the best of times, and when the
thermometer was around the 100, with a
north wind blowing clouds of loose sand
from the neighboring dumps, a job only
for the toughest. Weekly cash-prizes
were allotted for the pair shifting most
trucks. It looked a “soda” for two hefty
young local football stars, well used to
hard work. First day they tore into it
an( j at midday were well ahead of the
field. By mid-afternoon they were sag-
ging and lagging, and long before knock-
off they were done ; their backs had gone.
Two old-stagers in the fifties, long, rangy
and bearded, finished the day as they
started; a bit of knee-leverage and a
steady swing at unvarying pace. They
cleaned-up the prizes week after week
against allcomers,
* * . * . *
4 Ex-R.S.M.”: Ornithologist Samuel
White, who died in Adelaide recently,
save d a British force from disaster in the
Boer War through his knowledge of birds,
Then a young lieutenant, he pointed out
* 0 General Brookfield some partridges
flying around about half a mile ahead.
“It’s the breeding season and something’s
disturbed them,” he insisted. Brookfield
sen t off some scouts, who came galloping
back with a few empty saddles among
them. The Boers were there all right, and
the British Army decided that men such
as White could be used to good advantage
as instructors in the art of using the birds
as yoU r sentries. In his story “The
Sniper,” first published in The Bulletin,
i on Idriess described how a skylark led
to locating the possie of a Bedouin sniper.
Up in New Guinea birds such as the
white cockatoo and the shining starling
told us when the Japs were on the move,
The lad next-door to me is now doing his
N.S. training. I asked him if it included
using birds as sentries. He’d never heard
of it.
WATER LILIES
The water’s still where lilies grow,
But 1 have seen blue flowers float
Downriver on a leafy boat
As swiftly as a dream can go,
For something snipes their stems below
And at the softest breeze’s breath
Blue blossoms drift away to death
As surely as a dream can go.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
Model Answers for Downtrodden Boarders
Landlady : “Why must you spend so
long in the bath of a morning, Mr. Sapp ?
A.: “The explanation is perfectly
simple, Mrs. Battelacks. You see, I begin
the night by being a heavy sleeper. But
from midnight on I become a progres-
sively lighter sleeper, so that by the time
I wake I weigh probably no more than
about seven-stone.
“I depend for the restoration of my
weisht t 0 normal on absorption of water
Xufzyv in ’ which is o£ ie “ y
< iri y , .
° wlng to the cracks in the porcelain
enamel of the bath the hydrogen content
ot the water, by contact with the exposed
ir °n, loses part of its natural effervescence,
As a consequence it takes me so much
longer to absorb the water.”
L.: “I smelt something being fried in
your room last night. This is contrary
to the rigid rules of this establishment. I
would like an explanation.”
A.: “A concatenation of atmospheric
phenomena occurring at the moment of
your surreptitious olfactory detection.
Mrs. Battelacks, undoubtedly led to your
being misled.
“I noticed last night, immediately over-
head, a concentration of cumulo-nimbus
cloud travelling in a south-easterly
direction. This must have encountered
the centre of a slight cyclonic disturbance
which bisected it. The air-currents from
the cumulo-nimbus meeting a vacuum—
which is what constitutes the centre of a
cyclone—caused a heavy
downdraught which would,
of course, have a bend in it,
“This downdraught
would have had to come
past the window of the
block of flats next door ; at
the window of the flat
opposite my window I hap-
pened to observe a woman
frying some oranges. The
smell of this must have been
brought in my open window by the bend
in the downdraught and conveyed out
the keyhole of the door at which your
nose, or eye, was at the time stationed.”
L.: “You don’t seem to like the soup
this evening, Mr. Sapp. Is there anything
wrong with it, may I ask?”
A.: “My abstention from ingurgitating
the transparent fluid you euphemistic-
ally describe as soup, Mrs. Battelacks,
does not in itself necessarily constitute a
silent criticism of it, as you conclude. It
is simply that I consider it can be utilised
in a much more advantageous way.
“Just after it was placed in front of me
I happened to notice that a moth which
fluttered over it immediately showed signs
of acute distress. This may not in itself
have been so significant had not a fly
shortly afterwards also flown across it
and also had to make a forced landing.
“Quite obviously a concoction which
can prove so potent,a menace to the con-
tinued well-being of the numerous and
varied insects which are such a marked
and permanent feature of this establish-
ment, and that without —presumably—
the benefit of D.D.T., would gain even
.more in lethal quality with such an
addition,
“I therefore reached the conclusion
that the alleged soup would prove of far
greater worth for its insecticidal than for
its nutritional qualities. I was simply
waiting for it to become a shade cooler
than it was when put before me before
transferring it to the insecticide-spray
bottle.”
L.: “What was all that noise coming
from your room last night, Mr. Sapp?”
A.; “It was this way, Mrs. Battelacks.
It happened that I was unable to find my
slippers. Deeming that it might lower the
lofty dignity of this establishment were I
to perambulate in my bare feet, and
anxious to give my shoes, which I had
been wearing all day, a well-deserved rest,
I cast about for alternative foot-coverings.
“At first I was frustrated ; then I sud-
denly recalled my hobby of deep-sea
diving. What better, then, than to give
an airing to the heavy lead boots?
“Shortly after I had donned these I
happened to be looking through a drawer
and came across a paper-bag with some
walnuts in it. As I was then feeling rather
hungry—it was fully half-an-hour after
dinner—l decided to have the nuts to
eat. My action in jumping on them with
the leaden boots to crack them may have
been the sound you heard, though more
probably it was caused through my
knocking a cardigan off the back of the
chair.*’
BO.


7
C 7
1
m^:;%
m.
wm
■H Wm
■ i
■
mm.
m
m
i
wm
m
i
*s&
r :
V JS '"‘L
mmimm
‘ leu oj£«rfybr Benson & Hedges cigarettes. Sir”
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, MJEXSONanJHEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
mM
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THC LATE KINO GEORGE VI
/Ae AeJt
tefaAA c/o'
Vvt
h
SL
m
*
m
Benson & Hedges Ltd. are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are available
on the world’s most famous airways, including all routes served by the following: ■
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER LINOUS
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM • Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON • AIR FRANCE
EL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES • SABENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS • TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTES AEROS PORTUGUESES • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
nw/iM
Business Rollery Etc.
"Bull" Pointers
A/CANY interim-dividend distri-
iyA butions from public com-
panies continue to show in-
creases, Woolworths’ total divi-
dend has been lifted from 12 p.c.
to 15 p.c. A number of stragglers
are returning to the div.-list. The
season is now favorable in most
States, though the price of wheat
is uncertain. The wool-cheque
will be up, notwithstanding
some uncertainty about the U.S.
economy and rather lower quotes
for wool at recent Australian
auctions.
There has been a stabilising of
wage-rates in Australia, and
the rate of man-hour out-
put in a number of in-
dustries has increased. There is
a growing production of basic
materials such as steel, cement,
timber, chemicals, etc. Coal-
supplies generally are ample, and
power-output is much nearer to
demand in the mainland States,
though still below requirements
in Tasmania. Because of the
better supply of fuel, power and
raw materials, industry as a
whole is working more economic-
ally, and it can plan ahead with
more assurance.
Profits of industry should be
better this year; and it is high
time that they began to improve.
Profits are necessary to provide
further funds for investment.
Out of profits, whether higher
or not, a lower rate of tax will be
paid this year. On public com-
panies the rate of tax has dropped
from 9s. in the £ for 1952-53 to
7s. in the £ for 1953-54. This in
itself could make a big difference
in dividend-rates. Furthermore,
dividends in the hands of share-
holders no longer bear penalty-
rates of tax; property income is
now taxed at personal-exertion
rates.
Australia still has cost and pro-
duction problems to face, but
economic conditions at present
have not been better since the
war. There is little unemploy-
ment, and, whilst not enough
effort is being expended on new
essential capital works, there is
no doubt that industry generally
at present is busy, and large
sections of it should be earning
bigger net rewards.
The 4£ p.c. Loan
The new Commonwealth loan
will carry 4i p.c. on its
securities, which will be offered
at par. The short-term (three-
year) offering will bear 3 p.c.,
yielding £3 10s. 4d. per cent, at
the issue price of £9B 10s.
The long-term rate is the same
as for the three previous issues,
and is attractive by present
market standards. The effective
short-term rate is up about Bs.
per cent, on the previous offering,
and indicates the Treasury's
awareness of competition for
short-term money by a variety of
finance concerns.
The last Commonwealth loan
was issued in September, 1953 ;
£5O million was offered and
nearly £66 million was sub-
scribed. The present offering, if
taken in full (as is highly prob-
able), will almost assure the £lO5
million which the Common-
wealth Treasury banked on in its
Loan Council programme. The
Commonwealth agreed in May,
1953, to support a borrowing
programme of £2OO million, and
underwrote £95 million of it. To
the extent that public loans and
State domestic raisings exceeded
£lO5 million, the Commonwealth
special subscription (from trust
funds, domestic raisings, etc.)
would be reduced below £95
million.
All the borrowings during the
current year are being used to
meet State expenditures. Com-
monwealth spendings, including
£lOl million on capital works
and services, are being met out
of revenue. Capital-works outgo
during 1953-54 includes an
estimated £2B million in respect
of war-service homes and £13,6
million on account of the Snowy
Mountains Hydroelectric
Authority.
The charging of capital works
and services to revenue during
the post-war period helps to
offset the heavy expenditure on
defence charged to loans and
bank-credit during 1940-45,
Titanium Minerals
Spotlight in the Sydney min-
ing sharemarket last week
swung on to the ss. shares in
Titanium Minerals, Ltd.,
originally formed tb get zircon,
rutile and ilemite out of a 2000-
acre area near Evans Head
(N.S.W. north coast). Austral-
Malay Tin having lately tested
part of the area for tin, with
“satisfactory results” from seven
bores, a much greater interest is
being taken in the scrip, which
has jumped from around Bs. to
21s.
Registered as Woodburn
Minerals, Ltd., in 1952, Titanium
Minerals, Ltd., was formed to
acquire from Rucon, Ltd., and
Gold Sands, Ltd., 2000 acres
on mineral lease near Evans
Head. About 180 acres was
bored by the Bureau of Mineral
Resources and G. H. and J. A.
Watson Pty., Ltd. This dis-
closed sands bearing mixed
minerals averaging 4.3 grains
gold, 6.91 b. tin-oxide and a high
percentage of zircon, rutile and
ilemite to the ton. Vendors and
others got £6500 cash and
£12,500 in shares. The public
put up £30,000. Paid capital was
£42,500 to start with.
Since then a new issue of
shares has been made, and paid
capital is now £63,750 in 255,000
shares of ss. each. At the same
time the co.’s mineral leases
have been increased to 22,000
acres, of which 15,000 acres are
on the east side of the Esk
River and 7000 acres on the
west.
Whether the 6.91 b. tin values
have been confirmed by Austral-
Malay over a wider area isn’t
stated, but reports indicate that
values are much above the usual
tin-dredging experience. Much
testing has still to be carried out,
and, because of the presence of
zircon, rutile, ilemite and gold,
recovery may present problems
not usually associated with tin-
dredging. But the proposition
has very interesting character-
istics, including an absence of
boulders and buried trees in the
wash, which, where tested, is of
unusual depth as well as values.
Details of overall yardage and
values, also recovery methods
called for, are now awaited, as
well as details of any options or
other agreements entered into
with Austral-Malay.
Burlington-Bradford
Burlington Mills (Aust.), Ltd.,
which has a rayon-weaving plant
at Rutherford (N.S.W.), proposes
to issue 300,000 £1 ords. at par
to Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
Shareholders will meet on March
15 to approve the issue. As
Burlington ords. are slightly
below par at the moment the
issue would not be attractive to
Burlington’s own shareholders,
but Bradford Cotton apparently
likes prospects.
Bradford had links (through
its directorate) with Burlington
since its formation in 1945;
there was previously a business
called Tapitex, Ltd. Last year
Bradford acquired a direct
interest of 233,000 ords. from
Burlington Mills Corp. (U.S.A.);
if another 300,000 ords. are
issued to Bradford it will have
control oyer 53 p.c. of the ord.
capital, which will rise to
£1,000,000 (there is also £500,000
of pref. money).
Burlington was a lame duck
for several years. But plant has
been improved and quality of
production has been raised; last
term a 6 p.c. ord. div. was paid.
The output of woven rayon
cloth in Australia has been in-
creasing at a great rate over the
past six years. From
5,706,000yd5. in 1948-49 the all-
rayon cloth output rose to
10,864,000yd5. in 1951-52 and to
15,450,000yd5. in 1952-53. In
the six months to December last
the total was 9,959,000yd5., so
that 20,000,000yd5. may be the
figure for 1953-54. It is
approaching the level of cotton-
cloth production.
Bruck Mills, a competitor of
Burlington operating at Wan-
garatta (Vic.), has been earning
high profits and paying increas-
ing dividends. It recently joined
forces with John Vicars and Co.
to establish a spinning-mill at
Bulli (N.S.W.).
It is possible that Bruck’s
results and activities have
prompted Bradford’s increased
interest in Burlington, which
needs the extra capital offered
by Bradford for business
expansion. Bradford itself
recently began spinning rayon
yarn.
Loloma
At 255. for the Is. 6d.-paids,
the market values Loloma (Fiji)
Gold Mines, N.L., at less than
the market price of its investment
portfolio as at October 26 last
year. This is apparently because,
partly, of a drop from 13s. to
11s. a share in price of Great
Boulder scrip, of which Loloma
held 728,170 2s. stock-units on
October 26. It then also held
100.000 ss. shares in King Island
Scheelite, which have fallen from
265. 6d. to 20s. meanwhile.
There are 825,000 ss. shares
issued by Loloma, of which
645.000 are Is. 6d.-paid contribs.
At 255. all-round the valuation
is about £1,030,000. At October
26 valuations Loloma’s invest-
ment portfolio was worth
£1,305,296 (cost, less reserve,
£1,026,051). The drop in Great
Boulder and K. I. Scheelite repre-
sents about £105,000. On
average, the co.’s holding of
mostly excellent industrials have
not gained much ground over
the same period to offset the
market drop in Loloma’s mining
investments.
On the whole, though, the
investment portfolio is a good
one, except for some low-interest-
bearing prefs. in Conpress Print-
ing and the like.
During the 1952-53 financial
year Loloma paid dividends
totalling Is. 9d. a share, of which
Is. was tax-free. Last distribu-
tion was Is. a share (paid
December 18), partly tax-free.
The co. has paid a total of
£1,093,373 in dividends.
Ore reserves (proved and
probable) at the Fiji mine in
June last year were down to
about two years’ milling, with a
lower grade in prospect (about
10 to 15 dwt). Head-values in
1952-53 were 21dwt. and re-
coveries about an ounce to the
ton. Exploration and prospect-
ing results have lately been dis-
appointing.
Canada Dry
Last week’s resignations of
J. T. Walton and S. Y, Gresham
from the board of Canada Dry
(A. and N.Z.), Ltd., recalls to
mind that the co.’s accounts for
the year to Sept. 30 of last year
are still awaited. These will
cover the cool summer of 1952-
53 —not a favorable one for
cordial-makers. In the term to
Sept. 30, 1952, a loss of
£38,233 was shown. The co. is
heavily capitalised at £400,000,
and it has intense competition
to face, even during the pre-
sent hot summer. The market
takes a speculative interest in
the £1 shares at ss. 9d.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
GUARD
‘tMtlv Cls
PROTECTA
Sintl-SfMfll
TILL
Suitable for every type of business II record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send tor full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty! Ltd*
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
¥S£?9JK? E • • Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ..Docket Book Co. (Aim.)
r
ill
a
WA
The Bank of New South Wales was
established in 1817 when George 111 was
King. That was 136 years ago. During
nine reigns, the “Wales” has contributed
much to the Australian way of life, serving
not one, but every section of the com-
munity with a complete banking service.
Its network of over 850 branches and
agencies in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea, and 7,000 agents
and correspondents overseas, makes the
“Wales” the largest and most widely
experienced, as well as the oldest trading
bank in Australia.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOBATBD IN NBW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5314C
rowi
Clyde Industries Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales on 30th September, 1898)
REGISTERED OFFICE: 90 Ocean Street, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of £750,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
0
0
Currency * * . FIVE, SEVEN or TEN YEARS
(At the option of applicants, specified at time of application )
ISSUE OPENS-12th MARCH, 1954
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Notes mentioned herein.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Share-price Movements
Prosperity has been flowing
in the right direction for investors
in New Zealand over the past
twelvemonth, and gains equal to
the best in early post-war boom
years have been building up over
a fairly considerable range of
the market. A run of seven
bountiful export seasons on end
has been behind this, and the
present season won’t be so bad
even if dairying is hit in parts
of the North Island by this
summer’s drought.
When the market slipped back
in late 1951 and on through
1952 it was pressure on Aus-
tralian shares more than local
influences that were the cause
of the trouble. Maoriland de-
veloped plenty of strength for
the rebound which came in 1953
and started a boom that is still
continuing. Maorilanders
haven’t called it a boom, but
the trend in shares speaks for
itself. Capital profits of up to
40 p.c. could be collected by
shrewd heads who bought in at
last year’s low points, mostly
recorded in the first quarter,
Fletcher Holdings, Forest Pro-
ducts and Dominion Breweries
being among the pick. As the
first two of these are the largest
of N.Z. cos., the gains have been
widely distributed.
A list of leading Maoriland
shares shows the following
market changes (in N.Z.
money):
K Price— \
, —1953 — N End of
High. Low. Feb.,’s4.
Nat. Bank N.Z. .. 69/6 61/- 78/-
Dominion Brewery 80/ 60/ 82/
N.Z. Breweries .. 48/3 38/ 43/
N.Z. Insurance .. 121/ 104/ 123/
South British Ins. 57/6 47/9 60/9
Wright, Stephenson 61/6 54/ 62/6
Fletcher Holdings . 32/ 26/6 37/3
Farmers’ Trading . 43/ 31/6 42/
McKenzie’s Stores 15/9 13/ 16/9
N.Z. Drug .. .. 113/- 98/6 112/-
N.Z. Forest, ord... 13/ 9/6 13/-
N.Z. Forest, pref. 17/6 13/3 17/6
N.Z. Newspapers ~ 48/3 41/ 65/6
Ross & Glendining 50/ 48/3 51/6
Tip-Top Ice-cream 20/ 15/9 19/
Whakatane B. Mills 18/9 17/ 17/6
Wilson’s Cement .. 14/10 11/6 14/9
Woolworths N.Z... 20/6 17/3 19/
Except for an odd jump here
and there, most of the rises have
come in an unspectacular way,
without speculative fervor and
without general realisation of the
extent of the movement. By any
standards, it should be accounted
extraordinary. Only in' an
occasional case has a lift in div.
helped to whip up interest, and
these cases haven’t been the ones
where shares have soared most.
South British, for instance, where
investors are always on the look-
out for something more, hadn’t
much room for a leap.
Fletchers were one of the best
specs lately, in line to catch a
breeze from several quarters, as
the combine is well tied-up with
the Murupara project and the
launching of the Tasman Pulp
and Paper Co., along with a lot
of other construction work up
and down the Shivery Isles. The
16-million-dollar loan from the
U.S. Export-Import Bank was
worth several annual divs. (8 p.c.)
to holders of Fletchers’ scrip in
the push it gave to the market,
and besides this there were hints
at the time that the dozen
subsidiaries in the combine were
to be consolidated into fewer
concerns, for extra strength and
better control.
Forest Products have held
their ground well since the pro-
duction goal (pulp and paper)
was reached last year (August
and November), with a good
flourish of trumpets, and the
current year’s accounts (to
March 31), which should come
out in the final quarter, should
be the most interesting yet. With
profits rolling nicely now and
tax-relief considered a certainty,
the co. should be in a position
to pay 5 p.c. (£309,000) on all
capital, with a good margin in
hand to add to its £1,177,000
floating funds, or to put to
reserve. An ordinary div. would
be the crowning achievement of
a year in which F.P. has won
plenty of kudos in N.Z. and
beyond, and would put heart into
investors in the new forest indus-
tries who have had a long wait
for a return on their m©ney.
With hopes rising F.P. shares
should go higher.
Other industries, like cement,
ice-cream, newspapers, textiles,
chemicals, fertiliser and
breweries, are all carried along
by the tide of N.Z. prosperity,
and well - managed cos. are
happily placed. The snags of
high costs and low productivity
have to be watched, but the lead-
ing concerns don’t seem to be
losing much sleep, )
N.Z. Living Costs .
After four years of the
steepest price-rises N.Z. has
known, it costs about a third
more to live than in 1950, and
food prices are up by more than
50 p.c. Socialists and the rank-
and-file of the people are asking
for tighter control to stop the
rise.
If there’s one lesson New
Zealanders should have learnt
by now it’s the futility of trying
to put things right by regimen-
tation, red-tape and the big
stick. The only cure, and the
one they still won’t use, is to
take off their coats, roll up
their sleeves and get down to
the job. There’s a lot of waste
effort as well as waste time in
trade and industry. Manufac-
turers as a body haven’t given
mass-production methods a
proper trial, and secondary in-
dustry is in a weaker position
than in Australia, where it still
has export capacity.
N.Z. factories, with few ex-
ceptions, supply only the local
market, and this under the
shelter of import-licensing and
exchange-rationing, which insu-
lates them against outside com-
petition. If this is an insecure
existence it is meanwhile, at
least, a moderately-comfortable
one, and the political obstacles
in the way of a change favor
its continuance for a while yet.
What is happening is that
New Zealanders are making for
themselves, at high cost, many
things they could buy at lower
cost abroad, and they persuade
themselves this is economic and
sensible because it keeps them
all employed. In the long run —
probably not so long—they will
find this is making them all
poor and that they will have to
put up a better industrial per-
formance or switch their energies
into export production.
Soaring food prices in one of
the world’s leading food-pro-
ducing countries shows there is
something radically wrong
somewhere. Butter, cheese and
meat are priced fairly enough,
but fruit, vegetables, potatoes
and wheat are weak spots.
When the Socialists cry out for
action to hold down prices of
scarce foodstuffs they might as
well talk of controlling the
seasons ; the only way to make
food cheaper is to eat less or
produce more.
Reciprocal Trade
Once again wool has earned
Maoriland a big surplus in its
trade with non-sterling countries,
and has kept the exchange at a
healthy level. Dollar business
for the past twelvemonth was
close to balance, but N.Z. did
so well out of wool sold to Euro-
pean buyers that its non-sterling
receipts (£stg66.4 million) were
more than double the amount
spent (£stg3l.s million) on pur-
chases from these customers.
Nearly half its wool went to
them. As all foreign countries
are now keen to get business,
N.Z. has been visited lately by a
procession of trade representa-
tives all looking for a larger
share of N.Z.’s market.
They have made the most of
the argument for a better export-
import balance. French,
German, Austrian and Japanese
emissaries have all taken the
same line, and N.Z. has given
them an attentive hearing in a
desire to retain their goodwill.
On the sterling side, N.Z. still
has most of its eggs in one
basket, and there should be
plenty of scope for increased
business with the younger
members of the Commonwealth.


Incorporated in Victoria in 187 t
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 75 years
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
TR16A.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
LATEST accounts of the National—-it
is second in stature among Australia’s
big five mutual life offices —present a
pleasing picture to policyholders. The
highlight is a “substantial” increase in
the rates of bonuses paid to policy-
holders (amounts not stated), which
had been kept on an even keel for the
preceding half-dozen years, during which
•they ranged, on the whole-life contracts,
from 30s. p.c. on those five years in force
to 60s. p.c. on those 45-years-old or more.
Other features are a higher net rate
of interest earned, a fractional gain in the
expense-rate and a very favorable mor-
tality experience—the three main factors
upon which bonus-paying capacity
depends—as well as strong reserves,
disclosed and hidden, a large provision for
contingencies, a well-balanced investment
portfolio, and a record amount of new
business. They are all the essentials
looked for in a sound, healthy and pro-
gressive life office.
The amount of new business put on
the books was £42,443,930 (up £617,094).
It was all ordinary and group contracts —
no industrial business is done—written
in every country of the British Common-
wealth except Canada. Group assurance
as a means of industrial superannuation,
and home-purchase business coupled with
life-cover, now account for a good slice
of total new contracts, thus emphasising
the important role of fife assurance in the
vital matter of savings, from both the
social and national points of view.
Total income increased by £1,063,641,
reaching a record of £14,663,089, of
which £11,133,944 (up £669,483) was in
respect of premiums (old and new) and
£3,529,145 (up £394,158) income from
investments:
Added
Sept. Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 10,211,276 4,549,727 1,131,214’|
Written off assets, £23,104 a 74« SU
Exchange adjustment, £10,914 .. | ’ ’
To contingencies reserve, £750,000
1950.. 11,012,057 4.753,158 1,249,217)
Written off assets, £17,292 .. ■ 4,981,999
Exchange adjustment, £10,391
1951.. 12.297,074 4,929,399 1,553,532’
Written off assets, £25,345 .. ■ 6,763,371
Exchange adjustment, £25,427..
1952.. 13,699,443 5,412,564 1,691,119
Written off assets, £155,000 .. r 866 723
Exchange adjustment, £24,042.. * ’
To contingencies res., £650,000
1958.. 14.663,089 5,788,347 1,797,657 )
Written off assets, £59,346 .. 1 6,768,163
Exchange adjustment, £249,576 J
* Excludes income tax and rates.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., £7,077,085 (up £581,320) remained.
Of this amount £59,346 (down £95,654)
was written off the book-value of assets,
and £249,576 (up £225,534) was used for
exchange adjustment, leaving £6,768,163
to add to the assurance fund. That was
£1,101,440 more than was added to the
fund in 1952, when no less than £650,000
of the year’s surplus income was sent
to the reserve for contingencies, etc.
The assurance fund, which stood at
£93,095,044 at September 30 last, had
the support and assistance of £3,988,503
of contingency and other reserves, which
also belong to policyholders, there being
no shareholders. That the assurance fund
alone has lengthened its lead over lia-
bilities under policies, calculated on a
stringent 2\ p.c. basis, is evident from
the lift in bonus rates. The co. still sticks
to the old-fashioned practice of publish-
ing its actuarial valuation figures trienni-
ally; next lot are due September 30,
1955.
However, trends are in the right direc-
tion. Excluding single premiums, the
ratio of total exes, to total income was
12.12 p.c., or 0.23 p.c. less than for the
preceding year; and cpntinued mechani-
sation of office practice and wage stand-
still augur well for further improvement in
the ratio for the current term.
The average gross rate of interest
earned on the assurance fund was
£4 6s. 9d. p.c. (up 3s. Id. p.c.). The net
rate (after deducting taxes) was £4 Os. 3d.
p.c. (up ss. 9d. p.c.), which is the best
since 1941. The difference between the
net rate and the rate assumed by the
actuary in valuing liabilities and policies
is one of the most important sources of
profit, or divisible surplus.
The aspect of the business to which the
directors devote the greater part of their
time is the control and direction of invest-
ment policy, which, of course, has an
important bearing on the interest
return:
r 1952 t~ 1953 N
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 2,918,637 3.1 3,290,085 3.3
Govt, securities* 44,722,488 47.3 47,306,783 47.1
Debentures .. 2,686,620 2.8 3,155.142 3.1
Mortgages . . 29,394,854 31.1 32,894,383 32.7
Deposits building
society .. 1,613,000 1.7 1,613,000 1.6
Loans on policies 4,858,434 5.1 5,235,338 5.2
Shares other cos. 4,953,449 5.2 5,583,862 5.6
Other assets .. 3,528,740 3.7 1,392,160 1.4
Total assets .. 94,676,222 100.0 100,470,753 100.0
Liabilitiesf .. 2,192,849 3,387.206
Net assets .. 92,483,373 97,083,547
* Includes semi-Government loans, etc.
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
Two outstanding movements in the
figures last term were additions of
£2,584,295 to Government securities, etc.
—thanks to the better rate of interest now
to be had from this class of paper—and
of £3,499,529 to mortgages. Four years
ago 63.9 p.c. of total assets was repre-
sented by Government securities and 14
p.c. by mortgages; today the ratios are
47.1 p.c. and 32.7 p.c., respectively. The
switch, together with loans to building
societies and the holding (£2,295,124) in
the Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society, indicate the extent to which the
co. has come to the assistance of home-
builders in recent years.
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
BIGGEST thing of its kind in the
southern hemisphere, this group
consists of parent holding co. and five
main operating subsidiaries. It enjoys a
commanding position in the Australian
tobacco trade, and the parent’s scrip
parades with the leaders in the industrial
section of the market. Yet, over the last
few years, there have been wide fluctua-
tions in the price of the parent’s f.-p. £1
ords. Here are the peaks and troughs
(Sydney ’Change) since 1951:
1951. 1952. 1953. 1954 *
High .. 498.0 d. 40s. Od. '3Bs. 9d. 365. 3d.
Low .. 38s. Od. 30s. Od. 325. 7d. 335. 6d.
• Jan. to Feb. inclusive.
At last week’s price of 335. 6d. the ords,
return 5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. On
the same basis, the B shares at 31s. re-
turn 5.8 p.c.—they were part of the pur-
chase price of the Carreras business and
rank equally with the ords. for divs., but
are deferred as to capital. The fluctua-
tions and the drift in prices have been
due to a variety of causes —economic,
fiscal, variations in net earnings
and the dividend rate, sharemarket
trends, and the recent issue of fresh
capital. Including this new issue, net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is £l2 13s. lOd.
prefs. and 295. lOd. ords.
The alternate contraction and expan-
sion of declared profits and divs. resulted
not from any lapse on the part of man-
agement, nor variation in turnover
indeed, demand has consistently run
ahead of expanding output —but from the
sluggishness of controlled selling-prices
in relation to the brisk advance of labor
and raw-material costs.
In this respect, however, the chairman
now has a brighter picture to paint. He
says:
Our main problem lay in convincing
the price-control authorities that, all
efforts to effect savings having been made
and having proved to be insufficient, these
rising costs could be offset only by
increases in selling-prices, granted promptly.
However, a better understanding of the
co.’s problems reached toward the end of
1952 by the authorities has resulted in a
price structure which not only has made
possible this year the return to a rate of
9 p.c., but which, applied to the increas-
ing sales of cigarettes and tobacco expected
in the years to come, should result in that
steadiness in dividend rate which your
directors regard as a primary requirement
for this co.
So, with the help of bigger sales and
with two of the major items in costs
(wages and wrapping materials) less
troublesome, the board wrote last term s
net earnings £78,243 stronger at
£1,078,687, and could have shown
a bit more if it had wanted to, despite a
rise of over sd. a pound in the cost of
tobacco-leaf, mostly imported from the
U.S.;
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.
f-t Dividends \ Nominal
Pref. Re ~,
Oct., Profit. p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1948.. 956,324 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,489,768
Share premiums, £1,338,848 ’'
Unexplained reduction, £3OlB ••2*825,598
1949.. 999,983 111,188 9 p.c. = 883,640 2,830,753
Unexplained addition, £6483 • • 2,837,236
1950.. 813,247 111,188 6ip.c. = 696,201 2.843,094
Unexplained addition, £11,277 .. 2,864,371
1061.. 1.065.399 111,188 9 pc. = 963,970 2,844,612
From inner reserves, £1,694,015 .. 4,538,0z7
From depreciation revenue, £933,240 5,471,867
1952.. 1,000.444 111,188 Bip.c. = 883,640 5.477,483
From tax provision, etc., £454,727.. 5,932,210
1953.. 1,078,687 111,188 9 p.c. = 963.970 5,935,739
• After deducting outsiders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles (now £3,995,424).
The £1,078,687 of profit claimed covered
the pref. div. and 9.9 p.c. on the
£10,710,781 of ord. and B share capital,
compared with 8.3, 8.9, 6.5, 9 and 9 p.c.
back to 1948. That leaves out of the
reckoning £454,727 tossed into reserves,
of which a “substantial part” was on
account of overprovision for taxation in
the previous year, and the balance was
partly provision for obsolescence and
partly a straight-out transfer of portion
of the year’s surplus earnings. So the
lift in the div. from 8i p.c. to 9 p.c. was
really a more comfortable matter than
it looked.
Just before the close of accounts
2,677,695 new £1 shares were issued, one
for four, at a premium of ss. each. Paid
capital will thus become £15,099,064 in
1,710,588 p.c. prefs., 12,769,739 ords.
and 618,737 B shares. On that lot the
pref. div. and 9 p.c. on the ord. and B
share capital will call for £237,443 more
profit than was claimed last term. Share-
holders, however, have the chairman’s
assurance that, with costs as they are, the
selling-price structure coupled with
expanding production will enable the co.
“to service the new level of paid capital
and provide some reserves for future ex-
pansion.” The share-premiums, which
will add £669,423 to reserves, will make 9
p.c. worth only 7.2 p.c. on the new scrip.
The £3,347,118 of fresh share and
premium money is to be used largely to
reduce the overdraft, which had reached
£6,596,843 (up £2,304,955) at October
31 last:
Consolidated Figures.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. 12,421,369 12.421,369 12.443,638
Reserves .. .. 2,844,703 5,477,574 5,935,739
Outside interests 90,199 80,150 80,150
Deprec. reserve 3,328,426 2,395,186
Creditors, etc.t.. 6,534,830 7,094,133 9,653,167
Final divs. .. 107,108 240,993 107,108
26.326.635 27,709,405 28,220,402
Freeholds .. 1,532,662 1,556,014 712,426*
Plant, etc. .. 2,368,963 2,566,613 1,249,418*
Stocks . . . . 15,587,405 17,690,684 19,908,583
Debtors .. .. 1.654.243 1.717,857 2,133,369
Shares other cos. 101 101 101
Cash. etc. .. 214,023 182,762 221,081
Goodwill, etc. .. 3,969,238 3,995,424 3,995,424
25.326.635 27,709,405 28,220,402
t Includes overdraft and tax provision, etc.
* Cost, less depreciation.
It was the year’s growth of £2,217,949 in
stocks and of £415,512 in book-debts that
bumped up the overdraft. The year’s
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£12,502,859) was £246,631.
Howard Auto-Cultivators, Ltd.
pROM its works at Northmead, near
Sydney, this co., which has been in
the rotary-tillage equipment business for
the last 30 years, now turns out half-a-
dozen different types of rotary-hoes and
a fertiliser-and-seed dropper as well as
auxiliary and other equipment. The hoes
and dropper are drawn by a tractor speci-
ally designed and built by the co. for the
purpose or are powered by engines con-
structed under licence from the Le Roy
Co., of Milwaukee (U.S.).
A subsidiary. Rotary Hoe Cul-
tivators, Ltd., looks after sales
throughout the Commonwealth and
New Zealand, and in a number of over-
seas countries as well, except the United
States, where a new offshoot, Rotary
Cultivators Inc., was set up in San Fran-
cisco last year in order to develop trading
activities in America.
After a run of divs. averaging 7.3 p.c.
for the six years to 1938, the co. ran into
trouble in 1939, the roots of which lay
in a load of outside debt and falling
demand. Though Government war-time
contracts speeded recovery, the next six
years were dry ones for shareholders.
Then, war out of the way, the factory
and plant were modernised, and new lines
were introduced. To help offset the high-
and-rising cost of labor and to quicken
output, farmers, whose purchasing-power
had also increased, turned to mechanisa-
tion of their properties. Demand for the
co.’s products bounded along, lifting turn-
over from over £400,000 in 1946 to a
peak of more than £1,400,000 in
1951. Profits responded, and so ‘did
divs., which climbed from 5 p.c. in 1945
to 10 p.c, for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1951.
For the next two years the story is
largely one of steeply rising costs and
tapering demand (turnover not broad-
cast), due partly to changes in the
economic climate, including a tightening
of credit, and partly to the effects of
drought in Queensland and floods in
N. S. Wales and Victoria upon sales.
The following table shows what hap-
pened to net earnings and dividends:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. t Dividends s serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1949 .. 48,904 10 p.c. = 21,753 22,151 62,689
1950 .. 50,158 10 „ „ 26,370 23,788 86,477
1951 .. 58,134 10 „ „ 34,143 18,991 105,468
Howard Auto-Cultivators and Subsidiary.
Added on consolidation, £27,058 .. 132,526
1952 . . 41,146 5 p.c. = 23,210 17,935 150,461
1953 .. 43,237 6 „ „ 29,992 13,245 163,706
* After deducting intangibles, £16,952.
Last term’s profit (up £2092) was written
after allowing £19,989 (down £2293) for
depreciation. No provision was made for
taxation, the existing reserve for the pur-
pose (lumped with sundry creditors in
the published accounts) being more than
sufficient for the assessment, the chairman
says. Earnings before and after tax com-
pare as follows:-
Profit 1951. 1952. 1953.
Before tax .. ..£103,134 £75,145 £*8.237
Tax provision .. 50,000 34,000 Nil
Net .. .. < • 53,134 41,145 43,237
The net figure was equal to 8.6 p.c. on
capital last term compared with 8.8, 15.5,
19 and 20.2 p.c. back to 1949. The lift
in the div. from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c. reflects
the board’s confidence in the outlook.
Still, it is doubtful whether anything
better than 6 p.c. need be expected for the
current term.
Alive to its problems the management
concentrated on production of the more
profitable lines, reduced overhead, halted
capital expenditure, improved production
methods, worked down stocks, lightened
the outside debt, and widened the range
of products. The “Terrier” rotary-hoe,
which came off the lines late in 1952, is
claimed to be an outstanding success,
and manufacture of a small ride-on
tractor and the new fertiliser-and-seed


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
The "Curvilinear" Ore Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin &
Prices
ĥ
Simple,
Reliable
and
Efficient
We are the Patentees and sole manufacturers of this renowned Table,
Classifiers, “Everlasting” Steam Blow-off valves, and “Abbot” Water
filters All classes of Tools, explosives and accessories supplied.
Sole Agents for George Ellison Limited, Birmingham, Electrical
Switchgear, etc., and Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd., Birmingham,
manufacturers of Magnetic Ore Separators and Magnetic Lifting
Equipment.
Guthridge Pty. Limited
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Insurance Supervision
BAWIRINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Consultants & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3145. BU 3146, BU 1409.
much Is
signature worth ?
By securing a National Mutual Policy,
your signature is worth an amount
that is more than pounds, shillings
and pence. It is worth priceless
peace-of-mind—protection for your-
self and family far beyond your
normal capacity to save —financial
security at the time when you may
need it most.
Let an experienced officer explain
the advantages of The National
Mutual Plan. Telephone 8L1271.
WML PM.
LIFE ASSOCIATION LTD.
ESTV 1860 (me. ih viet.)
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
■
cut-
(Ba*-*- ‘
X ■
ir
mil
lOkO
3f/ N »
1
MB
V.-..
on precision
WITH PUMPS OPERATING at
pressures of 30 p.s.i.,and delivery
rates through each hose being
above 200 gallons per minute
(900 litres per minute) the
operation of fuelling requires a
high degree of accuracy.
The trained BP man at the
controls is responsible for more
than merely opening and clos-
ing control valves. He is in
charge of a powerful machine
and he alone can ensure that it
is suitably controlled to meet
the particular requirements of
various types of aircraft. He is
ready, like all BP Aviation Ser-
vice crews, to act quickly and
with precision.
ħ
OS
SERVICE
5/53
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
dropper (by arrangement with
J. Wythes, of Molong, N.S.W.)
were commenced. Also the sub-
sidiary in San Francisco and
new agencies in Indonesia and
New Guinea were set up.
The financial position im-
proved :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £499.666 £499,873
Reserves .. •• 150,461 163,706
Overdraft .. 181,382 156,437
Creditors* • • 231,290 1 204,039
Final div. •• 7,495 29,992
£1,070,294 £1,054,047
Freeholds .. 72,400 72,221
Plant, etc. .. 233,935 233,094
Stocks .. •• 693,334 649,661
Debtors .. .. 64,378 97,136
Cash .. •• 6,247 1,935
£1,070,294 £1,054.047
* Includes unstated provision for taxation.
A reduction of £43,673 in stocks
was accompanied by cuts of
£24,945 in the overdraft and
£27,251 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc. The
growth of £32,758 in debtors’
balances points to an improve-
ment in sales which gathered
momentum toward the close of
accounts.
Although sales have continued
to pick-up since, purchases of
initial tillage-equipment in the
Australian market appear to
have passed their 1951 peak;
but there should be a strong
demand for replacements. Much
will depend upon how the
American venture turns out, and
upon the strength of demand in
a number of other foreign
countries where selling agencies
have been established.
The f.-p. £1 shares, which
fetched up to 295. in 1952, re-
cently sold at 18s. 6d, to return
6.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 265, 6d.
Aust. Stock Breeders Co.
outback
in Queensland is the
Cinderella of the pastoral
industry. While post-war prices
for wool and sheep have
rocketed those for beef and
cattle have strengthened but
moderately by comparison, keep-
ing more or less in step with
inflated costs. Hence the rela-
tively meagre returns being won
by beef-producers in this area.
Ilieir profits are determined
largely by seasonal conditions,
which influence the quantity and
quality of beasts turned off the
western runs into coastal
fattening-areas for market.
The co.’s holdings are in the
far-west and nor’-west of the
State, where the hot sun and
uncertain rainfall produce a host
of difficulties, including slow-
maturing beasts. For these and
other reasons the lot of those on
the co.’s ord. register has not
been a happy one. After 20
years in the wilderness and loss
of half their capital, they got
back into the picture in 1948.
They have since had a run of
moderate divs. averaging 5 p.c.
for the half-dozen years to the
close of last accounts:
/ —Dividends—To Re- Re-
Noy., Profit. Pref.Ord. Total, serves.serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’48.. 9,961 6.2 2.5 9,378 583 583
’49.. 13.131 6.2 5.5 12,654 477 1060
’50.. 15,791 7 7 15,149 642 1702
’5l. . 14,115 6.2 5 12,108 2007 3709
’52.. 9.299 6.2 4 11,016 1992
’53.. 16,462 6.2 6 13,199 3263 5255
The board is tight-lipped about
sales, prices and the number of
cattle on the runs, while the p.
and 1. account tells no more than
it has to. Last term the season
was favorable, and Government
statistics show bigger slaughter-
ings and a slightly better price
for livestock.
After allowing £4931 (up £l5)
for depreciation and something
for taxation, the net result was a
profit of £16,462 (up £7163), best
since the tide turned six years
ago. The £1(5,462 was enough to
pay the minimum pref. div,
(£6649) and show 9.4 p.c. on the
£109,165 of ord. capital, com-
pared with 1.5, 6.8, 8.4 and
5.9 p.c. back to 1949. The div.
was lifted from 4 p.c. to 6 p.c.
The prop for capital at £5255 is
slender.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 216,414 216,414 216,414
Reserves .. 3,709 1,992 5,255
Overdraft .. 3,695
Creditor . . 31,859 32,574 31,061
Final divs. .. 12,108 11,016 13,199
264.090 261,996 269,624
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 73,658 71,011 64,200
Livestock .. 163,692 124,449 182,304
Stores .. .. 13,063 14,495 14,301
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 13,677 52,041 8,819
264.090 261,996 269,624
The growth of £57,855 in the
book-value of livestock was
accompanied by a reduction of
£43,222 in cash, etc. Livestock,
though in at £1 a head more than
at the previous balance, still
appears at a conservative figure,
the board says.
The current term has got away
to an excellent start so far as the
season" has gone, and prices of
livestock are firm. The U.K.
Government will presently
terminate its bulk - buying
contract and put meat on a
trader-to-trader basis, whereupon
its function under the 15-year
meat agreement with the Com-
monwealth will be to maintain
floor prices, to be fixed by
negotiation from year to year.
The f.-p. 10s. ords., which
fluctuated between 12s. and 6s
in the market during 1953,
recently sold at Bs, 6d, to return
7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
£1 prefs. at 20s. 6d. yield 5.8 p.c.
on a minimum 6.2 p.c. div. —they
are entitled to advance with the
ords. up to 8 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 41s. 3d. prefs, and
10s. 4d. ords.
N. S. Wales Minister for Mines
Buckley has announced discovery
of uranium-bearing materials at
Torrington, near Tenterfield,
and in the Broken Hill
area. Both localities have been
known as potential sources of'
uranium for some time. Govern-
ment geologists recently
inspected the two fields, and the
public anxiously awaits dis-
closure of the full results of their
examinations. Until these facts,
and the claims of interested
parties, are made known, out-
siders will be unable to form any
worth-while opinion as to the
commercial possibilities of the
finds. There has been a rush
by the townspeople at Torrington
to peg claims. Here the general
nature of the country rock
appears granite-porphyry, in
which tin, bismuth, cobalt and
wolfram have been found in the
past.
* * #
An Alice Springs syndicate is
whooping about an extensive
copper find some 50 miles south
of the township. To date nothing
more than surface indications of
low-grade copper-ore have
been disclosed.
* * *
The Champagne Syndicate,
NX., an offshoot of Western
Mining Corp., has bought the
Mt. Charlotte leases at the
northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.) from Mt.
Charlotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold
Mines, NX., for £lO,OOO down,
plus 5 p.c. of annual proceeds
from sale of any gold won until
£lOO,OOO has been thus paid.
The purchaser, however, is under
no obligation to work the pro-
perty, and isn’t likely to do so
until conditions in the gold-
mining industry improve. About
four years ago Wiluna held an
option over these leases, but
didn’t exercise it because the
grade, average 3.6dwt. at 300 ft.,
was too low. There might be
some ore at grass from which
the syndicate could recover the
purchase-price.


Women's Letters
MCLB'OHJENE
After a weekend of rest the Queen
emerged, animated and seemingly eager
for the next heavy round of engage-
ments. Accompanied by Lady Pamela
Mountbatten, she drove to St. Kilda Town
Hall for the women’s luncheon. This
was another triumphal tour, with the
enthusiasm of the great crowds bound-
less.
At the Town Hall the Queen was wel-
comed by the Premier’s wife, Mrs. John
Cain, and the Mayoress of St. Kilda,
Mrs. W. E. Dickeson. Her Majesty wore
a white sharkskin suit, the skirt having
knife-pleats, the slimly-cut jacket cut
high at the back, without lapels, but with
small tab-pockets on each side of the
bodice and at the hips. Her tiny currant-
red straw hat had a slight pixie-crown.
Her shoes were white peep-toed, her
accessories a square white handbag and
bracelet-length white gloves.
The COO women at the luncheon repre-
sented 175 women’s organisations
throughout Victoria, Among those pre-
sented by Mrs. Cain to her Majesty were
Mrs. Gladys Hain, who represented the
Housewives’ Association; Lady Knox,
of the Australian Women’s National
League; Mrs. J. J. Booth, representing
the women of various churches;
and Dame Mary Daly, represent-
ing the Catholic Women’s organi-
sations. Mrs. Cain, whose speech of
welcome was short but impressive, wore
a slim-fitting frock of delphinium-blue
silk shantung, from which a narrow band
of accordion-pleating flared out just below
the hemline. With it she wore a matching
bolero and a tiny white satin hat trimmed
with gold thread.
Those who were presented in the foyer
sat at the Queen’s table, which was
beautifully decorated with pastel-toned
flowers. On her Majesty’s right sat Mrs.
L. W. Galvin, wife of the Deputy-Premier.
The table was raised so that every woman
had a good view of the Queen, who
chatted vivaciously with those nearest
her. Soft music throughout the meal was
provided by the University Conserva-
torium’s women’s ensemble.
The Queen was obviously delighted at
the gifts for her children, presented by
Mrs. Cain. These comprised a set of
wrought-silver spoons—four each for
Prince Charles and Princess Anne —
which had designs of Australian animals
on the tips, and books, written by Aus-
tralians, telling the stories of the animals
on the spoons. Her Majesty left the
Town Hall through an impromptu guard-
of-honor formed by waitresses in their
black-and-white uniforms.
Months of planning had gone into the
transformation of the Exhibition Build-
ing, which for many years has been
regarded as the worst expression of Vic-
torian architecture in this city. But on
the night of the Royal Ball it was cer-
tainly a Royal setting for a Royal occa-
sion. The stage at the far end of the ball-
room was set with an immense backcloth
depicting Windsor Castle with a garden
setting of sloping lawns and beds filled
with glowing flowers.
The many pillars of the building were
surrounded with richly-hued zinnias,
marigolds, dahlias and phlox; in fact,
flowers bloomed wherever possible. The
entire length of the ballroom was hung
with horizontal drapes of blue silk to
form a ceiling. The Royal dais was car-
peted in crimson and hung with white
silk drapes, and the canopy roof, sur-
mounted by the Royal coat-of-arms, was
furnished as an 18th-century drawing-
room. The Royal couple approached
the entrance set apart for them through
gardens blooming with flowers, and with
the huge fountain brightly illuminated.
If anyone noticed that the flowers in-
doors took on a deeper blush as the night
progressed, it must have been because of
the behavior of some of the guests. They
formed a solid mass around the dais, gap-
ing at the Queen and the Duke. It was
impossible to move through them ; those
who tried had lovely gowns torn. It
wasn’t the fault of the City Council,
which had done everything to make the
guests happy ; it was the bad manners
of the guests themselves which ruined the
ball.
The Queen wore a gorgeous full-
skirted pure white tulle gown which had
pointed panels of gold-thread embroidery
from the waist. Her high diamond tiara
was set with immense emeralds, and her
necklace, bracelets and earrings were set
also with emeralds and diamonds. Again
the Queen wore the Garter sash with her
family Orders pinned to the shoulder,
and with a diamond bow-brooch at the
back. She held a beautiful bouquet of
tiny mauve orchids presented by the
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Solly.
Lady Brooks, who arrived with the
Governor shortly before the Queen and
the Duke, wore a crinoline gown of white
tulle with a short, jewel-encrusted over-
skirt of white lace topped with a dia-
mond tiara and diamond necklace. Mrs.
Solly chose a gown of magnolia brocade
patterned in gold, the bodice draped, the
skirt very full.
Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s gown was of
sapphire-blue satin and tulle, Mrs. Alex
Finlay’s of white satin embossed with
flowers outlined with chenille, the fitted
bodice being encrusted with pearls and
diamente. Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s frock
of white lace was outlined with opalescent
sequins. White French organza, the very
full skirt made over taffeta, the strapless
bodice massed with pearls and rhine-
stones, was the choice of Mrs. James
McGaurin.
Mrs. Sydney Menzies was in deep-
cream satin brocade; her daughter
Patricia chose pale-gold taffetas. Mrs.
Harold Wootton’s gown was of gold-and-
pink brocade. Lady Disney wore a lovely
gown of snow-white French organza, the
tiered skirt and strapless top carrying
hand-embroidery. Mrs. Norman Ben-
nett’s dove-grey satin gown was heavily
embroidered on the bodice. Silver-
threaded tulle fashioned the gown chosen
by Mrs. Lionel Newton.
Five thousand guests waited in bril-
liant sunshine on the vivid green lawns
of Government House for the Queen
and her Consort to make their appear-
ance at the Garden Party given in their
honor by the Governor and Lady
Brooks. The sunlit garden was a mass
of color, added to by the frocks and
the red-and-white-striped afternoon-tea
marquees. Huge bowls of cream and
pink gladioli were set on the tables.
In perfect weather, the women wore
their pretty summer frocks of every con-
ceivable fabric and color. There were
plain and patterned silks, fluffy organ-
dies, silk organzas in soft pastels, in
white or in brilliant shades. Even cotton
had a day out, but its polished surface
gave it a silken glow.
Guests saw another side of her
Majesty. Gone the soft pastels she likes
so well, and in their place a sophisticated
and lovely nylon tulle frock in a rich
cornflower-blue merging almost into
royal-blue. The skirt was very full and
accordion-pleated. The bodice, with its
full cap-sleeves and heart-shaped neck-
line, was also pleated. The tiny white
crownless hat had a large chou at one
side and bag, gloves and shoes were
white.
The Governor escorted her Majesty
through lanes formed by her subjects,
and many presentations were made.
Among those presented were Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Fowler; during the war the
Duke had many times been entertained
by them. In another part of the garden,
Lady Brooks accompanied the Duke of
Edinburgh and made the presentations.
(This Letter was presented by Lady
Brooks to his Royal Highness. He is
easy to talk with, has a very ready wit
and a great sense of humor.)
Lady Brooks looked charming in a
white chiffon black-patterned frock
worn with a large black straw picture-
hat. The Queen’s ladies-in-waiting, the
Lady Alice Egerton and the Lady
Pamela Mountbatten, were in attend-
ance. Lady Alice wore a dove-grey silk
organza frock with a small white hat,
and with her frock of white lace
mounted on pink silk Lady Pamela also
wore a white hat. Both pinned the pink
moire ribbon adorned with the diamond
E, in their frocks.
Those who joined the Queen for
afternoon-tea were Mrs. John Cain, who
topped her haze-blue silk organza frock
with a black picture-hat; Mrs. Galvin,
who chose an ice-blue linen suit and
white hat; Lady Herring, in blue and
white silk frock worn with a small white
petal hat; Lady Lowe, wearing a peri-
winkle-blue silk frock matched with a
fancy straw hat; and Lady Blarney, with
whom the Queen chatted during tea, her
choice a daffodil-yellow silk jacket-suit
and large grey hat.
The moving mass of color on the
lawns included lovely ensembles. Mrs.
John Carrodus looked attractive in a
petunia Swiss-organza embroidered in
tiny white flowers which matched her
white-petal hat. Pale-blue Honan silk,
with a cut-out design all over the
material, made the draped frock Mrs.
G. C. Molyneux wore with a small black
hat finished with an ostrich-feather
mount; Mrs. Robert Hunt, daughter of
the Premier and Mrs. Cain, chose a slim
frock of white linen lace and wore it
with a large black straw picture-hat.
* * *
Members of the Overseas League
were delighted when Lord Althorp,
Master of the Queen’s Household, and
Lady Pamela Mountbatten visited the
clubrooms in Toorak-road and met
many members at a late-afternoon
party. Lord Althorp is world president
of the Younger Group of the Overseas
League and Lady Pamela is a member
of the Central Council in London. Her
father. Admiral Earl Mountbatten, is
world-president of the league. Brigadier
Ronald Irving (chairman of the Mel-
bourne branch) and Mrs. Irving, with
secretary Thomas Hudson and his wife,
received the guests. Lady Pamela’s navy-
blue organza was patterned in a white-
lace design and her small white-satin hat
had diamente trimming at one side. Mrs.
Irving chose a navy-blue chiffon frock
with an imprint of golden-wattle blos-
som and wore it with a small navy-blue
hat, while Mrs. Hudson was smart in a
slim black crepe frock. Among the
guests were Lieut.-Col. Kathleen Best,
Mrs. Graham Egerton, Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
Mrs. David Warford Mein, Mrs, J. W.
Ross and Kathleen Gentle.
Lady Brookes, wife of Sir Norman
Brookes, of South Yarra, is one of this
city's foremost hostesses. A husband
and bringing-up three daughters did not
prevent here from working for Red
Cross overseas during World War I, and
in peace for the development of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. When the
Government took over the Queen Vic.
and the adjoining Jessie McPherson
Hospital, Lady Brookes moved staff.
patients and equipment to the former
Melbourne Hospital, and cheerfully set
about its renovation. She has been pre-
sident of the Queen Vic. for many years,
and is on the committee of many other
charily organisations. John Warlow
picture.
Lady Brookes revived old traditions
when she and her husband. Sir Norman
Brookes, gave a ball which will be
remembered. The ball celebrated the
coming-out of Marion, only daughter of
Sir Harold and Lady Gengoult Smith,
granddaughter of Sir Norman and Lady
Brookes and god-daughter of the Duke
of Gloucester. The floral decorations
were a part of the magnificence. In the
drawing-room masses of pastel gladioli
were mixed with delphiniums; in the
dining-room, where supper was served,
bowls of crimson roses were banked
down the centre of the table and around
the base of the silver candelabrum, with
their tall white candles. Supper was also
served in the ballroom, where, on the
white mantelpiece, were trails of gold
leaves, while on each side were huge
white urns filled with gladioli, one white
and yellow, the other white and red.
Guests danced in a pink-lined marquee,
where the pillars were spiralled with
hydrangeas in every color. Portion of
the marquee was arranged as a drawing-
room, with deep-red Persian rugs for
floor-covering, and with red-velvet-uphol-
stered gilt couches and chairs. On one
of the tables were signed pictures of
members of the Royal family.
Lady Brookes welcomed the guests
wearing a gown of white taffeta with
the bodice encrusted with diamente and
opalescent sequins. She wore a pearl-
tipped diamond tiara. Her daughter,
Lady Gengoult Smith, chose a black
crepe gown, trimmed with silver motifs.
Necklace and tiara were of diamonds.
Marion wore a gown designed by Teddy
Tinling. It was a palest-pink silk net, the
bouffant skirt fashioned of layers of
petals. Iridescent sequins forming
flowers trimmed the fichu neckline of
the fitted bodice.
Also making her debut at the ball was
Gillian, daughter of Vice-Admiral Sir
John Collins and Lady Collins. Her
gown was of white tulle with bodice of
tiny fan-shaped frills, the bouffant skirt
highlighted with a sash and bustle-bow
of aqua-blue satin, and through the bow
a trail of white lilac. Lady Collins
chose an off-the-shoulder gown of parma-
violet satin made with a full skirt, and
in the bodice was pinned a large bunch
of deeper-toned violets. Pretty girls
flitted about like butterflies, Diana
Bodycomb wore white taffeta, with a
green-satin sash and white lilacs for
highlights. Sally Manifold’s strapless
frock of white organza had a swathed
bodice and ice-blue-satin sash; wide
black-and-white checks patterned the
silk frock Gillian Pain wore; Deidre
Hyde’s yellow silk organza shaded
through to olive-green.
☆ ☆ ☆
Enchanting tulle gowns were worn by
two pretty girls who were school-
friends at Clyde when they came out at
a party given for them by their parents
at 9 Darling-street. They were Patricia,
daughter of Mr, and Mrs. E. D. Mac-
kinnon, of Langi Willi, Linton, and
Robin, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. R.
E. Root, of South Yarra. The bodice
of Patricia’s frock was of dark mist-
blue velvet. Sequin flowers in the same
subtle blue were embroidered on the
bouffant skirt of white tulle over palest
blue. Robin chose white nylon net for
her gown, and petals, shading from
white to pink, trimmed the wide skirt
and were clustered around the top of the
strapless bodice. Two hundred guests
danced, many from the country.
Mrs. Mackinnon chose a wide-skirted
gown of white brocade and Mrs. Root
cinnamon-shaded organza. Patricia s
grandmother, Mrs. G. R. Blackwood,
great-aunt Lady Currie and aunt Lady
Pilditch, out from England on a visit,
were at the party. Jane Chirnside’s
lovely wide-skirted gown was of shim-
mering white satin, Patricia Gibson’s
heavy white guipure lace gown was
made over pink satin; a multitude of
black-edged flounces fashioned the skirt
of the strapless gown of white organza
worn by Sarah Hordern ; heavy white
slipper-satin made Mrs. John Yencken’s
gown, with its strapless bodice trimmed
with emerald-green rhinestones and
sequins; pale-pink Duchesse-lace made
the slim frock Mrs. Roy Grounds chose ;
Caroline Bailey danced in a black tulle
skirt with its bodice of black guipure
lace; the front of Jacynth Lindsay’s
gown was of azure-blue satin, the back
and portion of the fichu collar of cycla-
men satin ; Prudence Minifie wore pale-
blue bouffant tulle with the bodice of
blue-and-silver lace, and her twin-sister
Deborah wore a replica in pink tulle
and pink-and-silver lace.
☆ ☆ *
The Royal train which carried the
Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh into
the State’s rural districts was provided
with comforts incorporated into the
apartments with taste and refinement.
In the Royal bedrooms the palest of
Queensland silkwood were used for
walls and furniture, and furnishings and
carpets were in delicate powder-blue.
Bedspreads were of chintz, which carried
pastel-flower motifs, and this had been
repeated in the upholstery of the chairs.
Another Queensland timber, maple,
dominated the combined sitting- and
dining-room, which also had comfortable
armchairs upholstered in oyster brocade.
Cushions were in rose and powder-blue,
and the velvet curtains bois-de-rose.
Aware, from N. S. Wales experience,
that much of her Majesty’s and his Royal
Highness’s time would be spent on the
open rear platform of the observation-car
acknowledging greetings, the railway
authorities placed two cane arm-chairs
in gay upholstery there.
The Royal car was the one that was
built for the tour which the late King
George VI was compelled to cancel. The
carriage normally used by the Governor
was placed at the disposal of the Royal
entofirage.


Missing Friends
TO JOHN TROLLOPE FULTON, formerly
of Seven Hills, Brisbane, in the State of
Queensland, and of Prahran, in the State
of Victoria, but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife RITA
NELLIE FULTON has commenced pro-
ceedings against you for a divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 22nd day of April 1954 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the said proceedings you must file
an answer in the said office on or before
the 3rd day of May 1954. This advertise-
ment is inserted by O. M. S. POWER, of
283 Queen Street, Melbourne, Public Soli-
citor, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
FLIEGNER, ALBERT WALTER
ANYONE knowing of the whereabouts of or
having any information regarding ALBERT
WALTER FLIEGNER, otherwise known
as VIC JOHNSTON, otherwise known
as GEORGE JOHNSTON, otherwise known
as ALBERT WALKER, last heard of in
December. 1925, as residing in Sydney,
New South Wales, is requested to com-
municate with MESSRS. GAIR & BRAHE,
Solicitors, of 243 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne?
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
dsmilVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
EZAD OFFICE! AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
h
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
i BARKERS
No Pads—
f No Springs
The KEO-BABSEBK
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8j), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
TO JAMES WILLIAM ASHLEY, formerly
of Bunbury, W.A.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARJORIE LILLIAN HALL has com-
menced action H. No. 3 of 1954 against
you in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for the recovery of the sum of
£735/0/0 payable by you as represent-
ing the aggregate amount of payments
accrued due from the 2nd December 1939
to the 9th February 1954 in pursuance of
an Order made under the provisions of
the Married Women’s Protection Act in
the Court of Petty Sessions at Bunbury
on the 19th September 1938 and that it
has been ordered that service of the
Writ in the said action be effected by this
advertisement If you desire to defend the
said action you must within 45 clear
days from the date of the publication of
this advertisement file in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth and
deliver to the undermentioned Solicitor a
Statement of your Defence In default of
your so doing Judgment may be entered
against you. Dated the 23rd day of
February, 1954.— CHARLES R. HOP-
KINS, Esq., Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
National Bank Chambers, 249 Murray
Street, Perth.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 398 of 1953.
TO BENJAMIN GEORGE ROGERS, late
of C/o Mrs. W. Tibbs. Glanllyn Road,
Glais, Swansea, South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ADELINE ROGERS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 398 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 17th June 1954 and.obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
OSBORNE ALLEN & SON, Solicitors, of
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONXY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE”
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
A:
/I
,
m.
m
WMiifl
■Hi
Is ■RiIAI!
Itpi
iv mbs!
it!
- V
1119
; n
m s
m
» ,
no ».
m
D,iTll »?feSS
K
c>®
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE Y 1
Tanqueray Gordon Sc 00. Ltd*
suopio 9
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“La Traviata’*
Verdi’s most popular opera
was a complete flop when it
was first produced in Venice,
largely because Violetta’s part
was taken by an enormously fat
prima donna, whose death by
consumption was received with
unfeeling laughter.
There was no danger from
that source in the Melbourne
National Theatre’s presentation
at the Princess Theatre, with
Barbara Wilson in the role of
the courtesan who wastes melo-
diously away through four acts
of Verdi’s loveliest music. Both
physically and vocally Miss Wil-
son met all requirements, and
Raymond McDonald ran her a
good second as Alfredo,
although his top-note failed
sometimes to come up to expec-
tations,
Germont, senior, who has the
ungrateful task of separating his
son from his mistress, was
played with much more dignity
by Robert Allman than the
part deserved, and Clifford
Grant was a satisfactory Baron
Douphal.
It is traditional to play
“Traviata” in the sartorial
fashions of any period the
actors fancy, and nobody thinks
nowadays that there is anything
incongruous in a Violetta
dressed in a Louis Quatorze
gown swooning on the bosom of
an Alfredo garbed in the swal-
low-tails of modern commerce,
so it would be superfluous to
look for anachronisms in Len-
nox Brewer’s production. Dr.
Herman Schildberger showed
his usual sensitiveness in deal-
ing with the music.
Verdi, however, would prob-
ably have been a little surprised
to see the front of the theatre
adorned for his opera with a
40ft, Australian horseman,
accompanied by a sheepdog as
big as a cow and a flock of
sheep the size of bullocks,
stretching from one side of the
glittering facade to the other.
The implication could no doubt
be that in Australia art rides on
the sheep’s back, but, of course,
the occasion for the display was
the Royal Command perform-
ance of “Tales of Hoffmann.”
This was a better perform-
ance than the first one, the
modern machinery and arty-
crafty gadgets having been pain-
lessly removed and a return
made to the traditional, Marie
Collier, Betty Fretwell, Barbara
Wilson, Lance Ingram, Robert
Allman and John Shaw never
sang or acted better.
Her Majesty was most in-
terested, and the Duke paid close
attention to the duel between
Lance Ingram and Robert All-
man, and seemed surprised that
actors should be such expert
swordsmen. The audience, out
to show that it knew how to
behave in the Royal presence,
sat as dumb as owls throughout
the evening.
♦ ❖ ♦
A.B.C. String Quartet
This new ensemble, comprising
Ernest Llewellyn (Ist violin),
Harold Taberner (2nd violin),
Robert Pikler (viola) and Hans
George (’cello), made its initial
bow at Sydney Con. on Saturday
night, presenting quartets by
Beethoven, Haydn and Sibelius.
The four players, who have
had wide experience in chamber-
music, produced throughout an
exacting programme easily-
wrought music of flowing line
and rich tone.
The Beethoven, Op. 59 —
second of the three “Rasou-
movsky” quartets, and one of
the titans of chamber-music, its
themes clear, their working-out
models of logic—was played with
clarity and precision; in the
presto the clarity was maintained
even when the tempo shot
forward to the final gallop.
Haydn’s work, Op. 64 No, 5
(“The Lark”), perfectly reflects
that amiability which stayed with
the great Austrian all his days,
and even survived a termagant of
a wife who was wont to use some
of his manuscripts as cups to
hold the cakes she baked. The
playing in this quartet was warm
and joyous, Llewellyn bearing the
chief burden in the lovely song-
like adagio and in the finale,
a moto perpetuo form of
fascinating invention,
Sibelius’s Quartet in D Minor,
Op. 56, a five-movement work
which has little in common with
the gelid cragginess of most of
the Finn’s symphonies, begins as
if on some remote mountain-
top, with the first-violin state-
ments bringing responsive echoes
from the ’cello. Thereafter the
quartet moves swiftly from one
musical channel to another;
austerity rubs shoulders with
jaunty syncopation; lyrical
passages merge into unusual off-
the-beat entries and strange
flights of sound. An original,
strong mind is here at work,
forging something if not wholly
attractive certainly so for much
of it. Through this severe test
the quartet emerged with no little
credit.
❖ ❖ *
Hebridean Songs
Even the lowly Sassenach
could hardly have been other
than charmed by the folk-songs
of Scotland’s Outer Hebrides as
feelingly interpreted by contralto
Mary Blake and baritone Allan
Gamble at the Cammeray
(Sydney) Music Group’s concert.
Knowledgeable comments,
touched with humor, on the
legends which form the basis of
these ancient songs were given
by Mrs. Elizabeth Lambie, whose
husband. Professor Lambie, had
composed an attractive setting
for “The Lone Shieling,” a
nostalgic cry from a Scots
emigrant to Canada.
Some of the best of these songs
are rarely—too rarely—heard:
“The Christchild’s Lullaby,” “A
Fairy Love Song” and “Deirdre’s
Farewell to Scotland,” sung by
Miss Blake, and “Land of Heart’s
Desire” and “The Lone Shieling,”
sung by Mr. Gamble.
Artbursts
Melb. Gallery Acquisitions
Recent acquisitions of Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery
include a splendid series of re-
productions of drawings by 20th-
century European artists, Euro-
pean Old Masters and S. T. Gill,
Victoria’s Old Master.
Except for Gill’s, which,
though remarkably good, show
some of the technical deficiencies
of early Melbourne printers, the
reproductions are so admirable
that they could easily be taken
for the original work of the
artists —Rembrandt’s drawing of
“The Last Supper” and Rubens’s
“The Youthful Bacchus” have
the qualities of the originals.
Matisse is represented by a
lively “Eastern Woman” and
Picasso by a not very remarkable
“Girl at a Wall”; Rouault’s
“Female Study” is no more than
a caricature, and Chagall’s “Strol-
ling Player” looks tired. As
souvenirs of their subject-matter
they are nowhere near so good as
“Light’s Mill, Yarra Yarra
Falls,” by F. Cogne, a practically
unknown early Melbourne artist.
A Maillol nude, with all the
quality of Maillol’s sculpture, is
delightful, but a Munch nude is
as amorphous as a collapsed
sponge-cake. Colonel Light,
founder of Adelaide, has a sketch
of the country and temporary
erections on the site of the future
city.
S. T. Gill, more journalist than
artist, recorded every aspect of
the life of Melbourne and the
Diggings with a facile pencil.
If he had been less facile and
had gone in for self-expression
in the modern manner it is
doubtful if his pictures would be
hanging in the National Gallery
in Melbourne.
Another acquisition is an oil
by Russell Drysdale—a group of
aborigines standing looking at
an unseen white man with the
deadpan looks of a race that
knows it is dying. Drysdale
conveys the melancholy atmos-
phere very effectively.
Talkies
“Rhapsody”
Adapted from Henry Handel
Richardson’s Maurice Guest,
this fine M.-G.-M. film holds
the balance fairly evenly between
drama and music. The story of
the girl whose wealthy father
allows her to plot her own path
in life, even from the formative
years, and who, stormily in love
with a gifted violinist who puts
his art before everything else,
marries a brilliant pianist on the
rebound, is told with dignity and
understanding. The dialogue in
the scenes between father and
daughter is crisp, and Elizabeth
Taylor adds to her stature in
emotional scenes which ring true.
Louis Calhera as the somewhat
distant parent who comes to his
daughter’s aid in a crisis is, as
usual, authoritative.
The music is ladled-out with a
generous hand. Unseen, Claudio
Arrau plays quite a lot of Rach-
maninoff’s Second Piano
Concerto, whilst Michael Rabin
does the same service for
Tshaikowsky’s Violin Concerto;
there is also a fragment of
Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto.
For the music-lover this flood of
music is alone worth the visit.
At Sydney St. James.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Roman Holiday”
This polished comedy, full of
a bubbling joy and laced with
daffy situations and witty
dialogue, concerns a princess
who, while on an official visit to
the Eternal City, plays the truant
for 24 hours. An American
pressman (Gregory Peck) gives
her shelter when the delayed-
action drug the Royal physician
had given her takes effect soon
after she surreptitiously leaves
the palace, and thereafter the
comedy hits the high plane from
which it never declines.
As the princess, Audrey
Hepburn, a talented young
actress, moves from regal
dignity to gaiety with an air that
makes it appear quite natural. At
Sydney State.


THE UPLIFTING OF WAGOONA
by E.O.Schlunke.
50ME indication of the
austere lives we led in the
wheatbelt, in the depressed
days of the 1930’5, can be
gained from the fact that when
my neighbor Harry Transverse
phoned to ask me to go with him
to a farmers’ conference at a
town about a hundred-and-
twenty miles to the west, he was
able to convince me that it would
be a great treat. Not only would
we learn a lot of useful stuff
about farming but there would
be sure to be some girls there,
out for a bit of fun.
It should be explained that the
body running the conference had
a well - organised women’s
section, which listened to talks
on home-management, interior-
decoration, fruit-preserving and
other beneficial domestic prac-
tices, all with the strongest accent
on economy ; while the men were
discussing cheaper production
and other desperate economies
of their own. Miss Brooks, the
organiser of the women’s section,
had many admirers among the
men; and the fact that she had
gone to the trouble of making a
personal phone-call to my
friend, all the way from Sydney,
had added greatly to his
enthusiasm for the conference.
His wife had refused, very
definitely, to accompany him to
the conference. She didn’t think
that Miss Brooks could teach
her anything.
Harry had a new American
car. He was one of the few
farmers in our district so well
established that a depression
could not unsettle him. We had
an exhilarating trip, except that
it got hotter and dryer as we
drove farther out west on to the
sun-scorched, windswept plains.
A couple of times we stopped at
wayside hotels, but the sedan,
one of the earliest all-steel type,
not being as well insulated as it
could have been, got so infernally
hot standing motionless in the
sun that every drop w® had
imbibed was evaporated out of
us again in the first mile.
I would have regretted taking
on the trip if Harry hadn’t kept
assuring me that at Wagoona
there was a marvellous hotel
where we would be staying,
several stories high which made
it cool, with its own electric plant
to supply refrigeration, fans and
lights and everything the soul of
man could desire.
The rest of Wagoona was
deplorable. A straggle of
wretched wooden or iron build-
ings that looked, like the farm-
houses in the surrounding
district, as if they had been put
up in a hurry to last the first
six months, and had stood for
twenty years with never a touch
to repair or improve them. Only
the police-station and a branch
of a chain-store looked at all
solid and permanent.
Some aborigines, showing
small benefit from their contact
with the white race, impeded our
rush from the scorching car to
the hotel; two men wanted a
shilling so they could have a
drink, and a couple of giggling
gins still in the bony, schoolgirl
stage of growth wanted an
equally small sum of money,
though it was apparent from
their archness that they didn’t
expect to get it for nothing.
“The cheapest way of getting
V.D. known to medical science,”
my friend assured me, and chased
them all out of the way as if they
had been mangy dogs.
TN the exquisite coolness of the
hotel-bar we met the man
who was to be the chairman of
the conference. He came from a
district even farther east than
ours, and he Was indignant about
being obliged to travel to a place
like Wagoona.
“It was all Mona Brooks’s
idea,” he told us. “She had
some crazy notion that it would
be good for the people out here.
As far as I can see they must be
a lot of lunatics. No sane person
would try to grow wheat in a
place like this, Here’s one of
them now; he’s been worrying
me ever since I got here.”
He deliberately turned his
back on a lean, harassed-looking
man who came hurrying in with
his troubles written plainly on
his face for all the world to see.
He came straight up to us, and
asked in a tense voice without
any formal attempt to introduce
himself; “Are you some of the
official party from Sydney?”
“Hell, no!” said Harry. “Do
we look like bloody professors
or departmental nobs?”
“I just thought from the flash
car you drove,” the lean man
said, with a bitter sneer for
Hairy’s new car. Then he
changed his tone suddenly, and
asked with a forlorn sort, of
hopefulness, “Do you know if
the director of the Farm Relief
Board is coming?”
“Couldn’t say,” said Harry,
getting a frivolous look on his
face. “All I know is that Mona
Brooks is coming.”
This harmless remark pro-
voked an astonishing reaction
from the local man. He said
furiously, “Is that all you can
think of, when dozens of men
in this district are going to be put
off their farms any day? Two
out of three of the closer-
settlement men, because the Gov-
ernment has decided that a
thousand acres isn’t an ‘economic
unit’ in this area,”
He stopped suddenly, looking
as if he might burst into tears,
then he got control of himself
and rushed out of the bar.
“Hell! ” said Harry to the
hotel-keeper, “you want to keep
him out of your pub ; he’ll turn
all your beer sour. Who is he
anyway?”
“He’s a chap called Matters,
battling to keep his place going,
like most of the smaller men
out here,” the hotel-keeper said,
with a certain amount of
sympathy in his voice. “Quite a
smart chap in some ways.
Always making speeches and
organising meetings protesting
about men being put off their
farms, A good farmer, too, very
clever at mechanics. He built an
outfit on to his tractor to make
it run on charcoal.”
This was, of course, before the
last war’s petrol shortage made
producer-gas outfits familiar to
all of us. We were astonished
to hear that a tractor could be
made to work on charcoal, and
even more that a local farmer
could make the apparatus,
“He’s not such a ratbag after
all,” said Harry, “but he
shouldn’t worry about being put
off his farm. X wouldn’t take all
the land from here to Bourke as
a gift.”
The hotel - keeper looked
shocked. “The land’s all right,
only they made the farms too
small. That forced the settlers
to concentrate on wheat. If
they’d had three- or four-
thousand acres each, and gone
in mainly for sheep, they’d have
done all right. That’s what the
Farm Relief Board is aiming at
now; but it’s pretty rough on
the men they are putting off.”
“No one asked them to come
here,” said Harry. And the
chairman from Grenfell way
looked as if he agreed with that
point of view.
“That train should be in soon,”
he said to Harry. “You’d better
bring your car to the station and
drive some of the official party
down.”
“All right said Harry, “I’ll
take Mona.”
We went and got into our
cars. A number of the locals
had arrived; shabby-looking
fellows in badly-worn suits;
some with funny, old, floral-
patterned shirts that I remem-
bered my father wearing. They
somehow gave the impression
that they had deliberately put on
their old clothes and left off their
ties, either as a mark of dis-
respect to the visitors, or for
some ill-conceived strategic
purpose of their own. They
regarded us and our flash cars
with obvious disapproval.
“Bunch of no-hopers,” said
Harry. “They’re just as much
on the dole as the unemployed.
They’re so much in debt that,
if the Government Relief Board
wasn’t carrying them on, they’d
all have to walk off their farms
tomorrow.” Then his voice
changed, “But look here. If I
can get Mona Brooks to come
alone in my car will you slide
off and get a lift with someone
else?”
A SURPRISING collection of
near-celebrities stepped off
the train with Miss Brooks.
There was a professor of
economics, a well-known radio-
personality, familiar to everyone
who listened to a certain B-class
network, a Government depart-
ment-chief with an imposing
presence, and experts from the
several departments most closely
associated with agriculture. The
three major personalities had a
weary, chagrined expression.
They looked at Wagoona like
men stepping out of a rocket-
ship on to a new planet, sticking
close to Miss Brooks as if she
were their only contact with their
own lost world. The
was the first to show any sign of
spirit.
“She shanghaied us,” he said
to the welcoming deputation,
addressing himself to Harry and
the chairman, rather than the
group of curious locals, as the
men most likely to understand
English ; “got us on to the train
last night without telling us where
Galoona was. By heavens we
got a surprise when we found
she’d got sleepers for us. But
nothing to the surprise we got
this morning when we had to get
out of our sleepers into dog-
boxes and found we still had over
a hundred miles to go. By Jove,
I never thought anyone could go
so far west and not fall into the
Indian Ocean.”
A few obliging fellow-
passengers laughed, but all the
locals put on terrific scowls. The
radio-man went on undaunted.
“At this very moment I should
be keeping an appointment to
play golf. Now stand clear
there, I’m going to hit off.”
Some studied clowning ending
with a tremendous swipe and a
yell of “Fore.”
The locals watched as if they
thought him weakminded to be
going on like that when two out
of three men were being put off
their farms in Wagoona. Harry
took advantage of the confusion
to get Mona Brooks into his car,
but since a number of others
followed her, I got in, too. She
seemed to think, not without
reason, that she had a need to
justify bringing us to Wagoona.
“We have a big branch here,”
she said, “but we couldn’t
assimilate the members into our
organisation. Most of them
couldn’t afford the time and
money to come to conferences
held up to a hundred-and-fifty
miles away, and the few who
did felt lonely and out of things
among people of the more pros-
perous districts. I didn’t like
that because we have some
splendid people here.”
She said “splendid” with such
a full, rich note from her admir-
able, deep voice that she nearly
made us believe her, despite what
we’d seen.
“No one realises the hardships
they’ve been facing for years,
nor how courageously they’ve
been meeting them; nor the
resourceful ways they’ve dis-
covered of keeping down their
expenses. Why, one man here
invented a way to make tractors
work on charcoal. Charcoal,
mind you, that can be got for
almost nothing anywhere round
here. He made all the apparatus
himself, too, furnace and filters
and gas-cooler out of old scrap
iron and discarded machine-
parts. He’s a remarkable man ;
I’m getting him to give a talk.”
“We’ve met him,” Harry told
her. “He seemed to be worried
about something.”
“I know.” Mona let go with
her rich voice again. “One of his
neighbors must be threatened
with dispossession. He’s always
wearing himself out over other
people’s troubles.”
“Looked as if it might be his
own this time,” said Harry.
Mona started forward to look
Harry full in the face. “Oh, no.
It couldn’t be that. They’re only
putting off the failures. He was
a success. Why, his invention
will revolutionise farming.”
She looked at the celebrities
she’d brought all that way in
alarm, then tapped Harry
reproachfully on the arm. “You
mustn’t say things like that.
You’ll ruin our conference.”
“All right,” said Harry, with
a smug grin, “I won’t say it
again.”
“You’ve made a mistake. You
don’t know Matters. It’s only
other people’s troubles that
worry him; I’m sure he’d face
his own with a smile.”
Then, as if she didn’t like the
sudden silence that settled on to
the passengers, she said, “But if
there was some silly mistake
made by some red-tape official
in the Farm Relief Board, I
should surely be able to get it
set right immediately with all the
heavy artillery I have here.”
She turned to the large,
important-looking, departmental
officer who had been variously
introduced as the secretary, the
director and the chief-inspector
of his department.
“You could do it, couldn’t
you, Mr. Regerson?”
TIEGERSON got a heavy, un-
co-operative look on his
face. “That depends, my dear
young lady, that all depends.
Some Governmental departments
have good liaison, others hate
each other and won’t play. It
depends on other things, too;
that would take too long to
explain to you.”
“It all depends,” said the
radio-man, brightening up sud-
denly after all the serious talk,
“on who’s asking who. If it was
a lady as young and charming as
you are, Mona, but without your
deplorable rectitude, asking a
man with the character of our
friend Regerson, well, some sort
Of arrangement would be made,
I’m sure.”
“Don’t be coarse,” said Mona,
“just because you’re not being
censored for once.” Then she
went on with that characteristic
enthusiasm which had made
her such a successful organiser,
“But I’ve got a girl here who is
just as marvellous. I would say
more marvellous, only I’m show-
ing you how fair I can be to the
other sex.”
“That sounds better,” said the
radio-man, “Tell us about her.
Is she beautiful?”
“No,” Mona said, decisively,
“not exactly beautiful, but she’s
wonderfully bright and alert.
She has. the most marvellous
eyes. And she has brains, initia-
tive and industry; and she’s
passionately interested in improv-
ing herself.”
All the men looked extremely
uninterested.
“If only she was beautiful,
and passionately interested in
ruining herself, how we’d all fly
to her assistance. Hey, Reger-
son?” said the radio-man.
It wasn’t long before we were
introduced to the girl, Rita Ham-
mence. She was waiting at the
hotel to greet Mona when our
car pulled up. Undoubtedly she
had fine eyes, and it was easy
to see why Mona Brooks had
noticed them, because they were
turned on her continually, fairly
gleaming with an almost dog-
like devotion. Apart from her
eyes there wasn’t much to par-
ticularly attract a man ; she was
too thin, too suntanned, too
work-worn and too prematurely
worried. Her clothes, home-
made with considerable skill, not
making the best of her, but
making the best of cheap
material and limited time.
Despite the brightness of her face
there was something forlorn
about her.
Mona Brooks did her best for
her. As she introduced her to
her celebrities she never failed
to mention, “the wonderful girl
I’ve been telling you so much
about,” which evoked a sharp,
startled “Oh!” from the girl in
each case, and nearly broke
down her composure.
“And if there’s any way in
which these clever and influential
gentlemen can help you with
ideas or advice. I’m sure they’ll
do all they can for you. Won’t
you?” She turned to the men.
“Oh, yes, sure. We certainly
will,” they replied glibly, turning
a moment to look with incurious
eyes at the girl, whose face shone
with eagerness.
Her eyes ran excitedly from
face to face, then to Mona again,
with a confidence and depend
ence which made one imagine
on page 22)


ĥ
adjustable cm &
and wmm!
HARGANS
‘TiaMr tHieT
THE GREATEST ALL-ROUND MOBILE
POWER SAW EVER PRODUCED
Hargans—proved leader in the Mobile Power Saw field
for over seven years—now incorporates a completely
redesigned chassis, giving it a greater work capacity than
ever before!
Larger wheels, adjustable height mechanism and fold-up
vee leg allow the machine to straddle 24 in. logs. Simple,
speedy wing-nut adjustments pul handles at a convenient
height for any operator and give horizontal cuts within
12 ins. of the ground or vertical branch cuts 5 ft. up. Any
timber-worker will quickly appreciate these new superior
advantages of the Hargans “Timber Chief.”
Yes, all these and Hargans’ other outstanding features,
too! The new Hargans “Timber Chief” retains the same
patent gimbal ring mounting that keeps Hargans ahead
of all competitors and the 10 b.h.p. engine that boosts
performance and leaves other saws standing.
EASY RIPPING
See how the rangy Hargans “Timber Chief” chassis strides this 24"
Stringy Bark billet, giving the operator full view of his work and
enabling him to continue cutting in one direction, ripping the
whole length of the log. You’ll find the Hargans “Timber Chief”
chassis easy and simple to adjust. Wing-nuts on wheel quadrants
give height variation through a range from 12" to 24" off the
ground!
m
m
M
m
m
m
m
m
m
ill
m
m
Features that make the
iargans “Timber Chief” master of them all
AND AT NO INCREASE IN PRICE!
I Patent gimbal ring mounting enab-
ling the Hargans "Timber Chief" saw to
be swung straight into the timber while
the wheels and frame remain stationary.
Belts never cross.
I World-famous B.S.A. air-cooled 4-cycle
engine developing 10 b.h.p. at full
throttle. Ball and roller bearings on
crank-pin and crankshaft.
B Revolutionary chassis-elevating device,
giving quick chassis adjustment from 12"
to 24" off the ground,
fl Top of saw blade turns away from the
operator, therefore should Hargans stall
in the cut it will pull away and not to-
wards the operator , . . an important
safety factor.
0 21" pneumatic disk wheels giving
greater manoeuvrability.
0 Sturdy vee leg and rack with wider
range of adjustment folds up to give full
clearance when ripping or driving over
obstacles.
S Vee-belts, actually 40% overpowered
for longer life, cushion even the harshest
stall.
0 Handy labour-saving self-drive, giving
powered transport over almost any ter-
rain. (Extra at reasonable cost.)
WALK IT AWAY
Thanks io Morgans' handy positive self-drive (optional
extra), after only two simple adjustments you can
squeeze the handle grips and the simple, powerful
Morgans self-drive comes into play to propel the
"Timber Chief" at normal walking speed, anywhere
you wish.
Note auxiliary blade position keeping blade stationary
for safety while unit is in transport.
★ HARGANS OWNERS Convert your present
Hargans to a world-beating “Timber Chief.” For a very
reasonable charge you, too, can get the new “Timber Chief”
benefits with the option of handy, labour-saving self-drive.
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young St. (near Circular Quay), Sydney,
P.O. Box 509. Phone; BU 5095.
500 Bourke St., Melbourne. Phone; MU 2338.
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga & Hay.
T O-D A Y
Please send me
obligation:
I Full details of | j
the Hargans
"Timber Chief"
{complete unit).
I Details regarding
conversion of my
present Hargans to
a "Timber Chief."
□
NAME
ADDRESS
HS 10.155


8.0.A.C. Takes Good Care of You
Speedbird Services
link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA,
THAILAND, HONG KONG,
JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST,
AFRICA. EUROPE, GREAT
BRITAIN, U.S.A., CANADA,
CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA,
BERMUDA.
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help —no charge I
FLY BRITISH
h
h
h
f 1 WMI
TO All SIX
Wherever you fly it costs no more for 8.0.A.C. traditional
service and experience . . . for the unrivalled skill of
flying and ground staffs . . . friendly, courteous
attention . . . smooth efficiency. Speedbird
services link with 51 countries on all
6 continents —and you can travel on
one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird airliners are
fully pressurized for smooth
above-the-weather flying
Complimentary meals and meal-time
drinks. No tips. No extras.
'!■' !<
FOR POST HASTE WITHOUT WASTE—USE OVERSEAS AIR MAIL
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A
A42/A U
that at any moment she would
wag her tail.
“Oh, Miss Brooks, if only, if
only”—she nearly broke down
until she was encouraged by
Mona’s smile —“if only someone
might help me with my speech.”
The three men looked at one
another, each with a pained
“Who? Me!” expression. The
girl’s eyes still flitted hopefully
here and there until Regerson
broke the awkward silence.
“What are you going to talk
about? Cooking?”
The girl blushed and looked
overwhelmingly embarrassed.
Mona helped her out.
“She has a very good subject,
‘The Companionship of Good
Books,’ ”
The professor spoke to her for
the first time. “Yes, indeed, very
good. Provided, of course, that
by ‘good books’ you really
mean good books.”
“That’s solved something for
me,” the radio-man chipped in
brightly. “How they keep them-
selves sane out here. They read
books. Personally I never have
time, so that lets me out. What
was that book you were reading
in the train, Regerson? The
Corpse Lay Down, wasn’t it?
You’ll be just the man to help
her.”
Then the three important men
made an excuse to get away into
the bar. Mona detained Harry
and me, though Harry was eager
to get away because Matters
immediately joined the group.
“I particularly want you
people from the different districts
to get to know each other
thoroughly,” she said, too full of
enthusiastic goodwill to realise
how much she was expecting of
us.
“She means you two,” Harry
said, looking significantly at
Rita and me. “I’m married ;
otherwise I’d be glad to do my
bit towards mixing the strains.”
He gave his robust laugh when
he noticed the girl flinch, then,
seeing the expression on
Matters’s face, he took another
opportunity to create a little
jollity,
“No luck, Mona,” he said;
“it looks as if your little ewe has
been drafted with a local ram ’
Then he went off chuckling,
delighted with the impression he
Had made.
MATTERS stared after him
disapprovingly; then his
face changed and he turned
sharply to Mona.
“You didn’t bring the director
of the Farm Relief Board,” he'
said, accusingly and quite rudely.
The girl took him by the arm,
and looked at Mona,
embarrassed. “He’s very
worried,” she explained; “he’s
had bad news from the board,
but he thought if he could speak
personally to the director ...”
Mona looked alarmed. “They
don’t want to put you off,
surely! ”
The fanatical look the man
had worn in the bar came back,
again. His voice rose angrily.
“They want to, but they’re not
going to. They can’t do that to
me. All my life I’ve worked
hard and lived poor. It’s not
fair. I’ll get even with them.”
Rita hung on to his arm and
pleaded, “Don’t. Don’t.”
“I’ll do what I can for you,”
Mona promised him hurriedly.
“I know a lot of important
people. That Mr. Regerson we
brought with us. He’s a senior
Treasury-official who is in charge
of all rural relief expenditure.
He’s going to make a statement
about these eviction notices, and
what they’re going to do for an 5'
men they put off—if they really
do put any off, after the gallant
stand you’ve made against it.”
Matters thought it over with
every kind of suspicion showing
on his face, even suspicion of
Mona Brooks.
“My God,” he said violently,
“if they put us off they’d better
make the compensation big;
enough to give us a new start
somewhere else. Even if we are
broke we’re not going to move,
except to other farms just as
good.”
“I’m sure they’ll make some
satisfactory arrangement,” Mona
said, extending herself to pacify
him. “They can’t treat brave
men and women like chattels
these days. This is the twentieth
century,”
He became a little calmer.
The girl still clung to him so
tightly that presently Mona said,
“You two, I often wondered
if there was anything between
you,”
“Oh, we’re not engaged,” the
girl said quickly.
“What would be the use,”
Matters said in a bitterly melo-
dramatic voice, “with this hang-
ing over me, how can I ask a
girl to marry me?”
At that moment Harry
returned and grabbed Mona by
the arm. “You’re wanted in the
hotel. Urgent business.”
He carried her off, and I felt
sure that she went gladly despite
her professed admiration for
Matters. Harry turned back to
give me a broad wink and a
nudge towards Rita.
“Don’t forget. New blood
needed.”
THE train that had brought the
party to Wagoona ran to
the end of the branch-line and
back again, without any of the
important ones being told that
for several days there wasn’t
another link with civilisation.
When they discovered how they’d
been marooned, there were some
exasperated exclamations in the
hotel lounge about broken
engagements and lost oppor-
tunities. But soon the unusual
effects of starting to drink at ten
o’clock in the morning, after
travelling all night, gave the
gentlemen a more tolerant view
of things.
“Send a telegram,” said the
radio-man to the professor, giv-
ing him a hearty slap on the
shoulder, “■‘Unavoidably de-
tained.’ They can’t do anything
about that.”
“Send a telegram,” said the
professor to Regerson, a few
minutes later, as if it was a
marvellous new idea, and getting
a hearty laugh for it, though he
scarcely knew why.
So it went on with every round
of drinks, until even the
aborigines outside were saying it
to every stranger who came out
of the hotel and expecting to
get at least two shillings for
being so smart.
Undoubtedly the hotel be-
longed to the visitors, but just
as assuredly the conference-hall
belonged to the locals. There
they sat in tense, implacable
ranks, clinging to their agendas
with sweating hands, devouring
the contents with suspicious
faces, leaning over several rows
of chairs to point out things to
Matters with their work-blunted
fingers; standing up every now
and then to count themselves, to
make sure they always had a safe
majority “in case they try to put
anything over us.”
And the ladies’ auxiliary ranged
along one side of the hall, con-
tinually preparing refreshments;
not so sweetly hospitable as it
might sound, because, under
Matters’s guidance, they exer-
cised a tyrannical censorship.
They could blot out the speeches
of any one of whom they dis-
approved, simply by raising the
level of the noises inseparable
from the preparation of food.
Into this walked the professor
after a suitable period for relaxa-
tion, with his guileless, detached
views on economics; feeling,
after the fans and iced beer of
the hotel, that the sunshine from
a hundred-thousand acres of flat
western land had been collected
by the shining iron roof, to be
poured down in concentrated
fury on the audience beneath.
What did it avail him that he
had read every worth-while book
on economics written during the
last hundred years ; or that he
could express in a single, if
tortuously involved, sentence the
theory of any of the leading
modern economists? The ladies
stared at him, interested in see-
ing for the first time a living,
breathing professor; began lo
purse up their mouths at his
precise, almost effeminate,
diction; were left stranded in
heaps at every turn in his first
long sentence; the light of
interest dying out of their eyes;
beginning to look at each other
with grins on their blunt, uncom-
prehending faces; the big, red-
faced woman in charge deliber-
ately picking up an empty cup
and placing it carelessly in a
saucer: “Clack! ”
More clacks here and there
along the long trestled tables, with
speculative eyes on their men in
the audience, to see if they
approved, and not a glance at the
desperately gesticulating chair-
man, so conscious of the pro-
fessor’s importance, and all the
trouble and expense of getting
him all the way from Sydney.
Then silence, as sudden as an
explosion ; not needing Matters’s
peremptory signal. The pro-
fessor had mentioned wheat.
That alone was enough to con-
centrate everyone’s attention.
But how he had mentioned it!
“Taking the global perspec-
tive, and not disregarding the
cost to the Government of keep-
ing such sections functioning, it
would seem to be the height of
economic folly to continue to
grow wheat in the semi-arid areas
of Australia such as this.”
Astounded and appalling
uproar from the hall. Men
leaping to their feet to shout at
him i “Take that back!
“Apologise!” “Trying to cut
our throats! ” Surging round
Matters with outthrust hands,
popping eyes and eager mouths
till the flimsy folding-chairs
crackled to pieces under them.
The professor looking on
astonished, and the chairman try-
ing to hide a smile —at the pro-
fessor for putting his foot into
it like that, and at the locals for
being such one-eyed asses. Then
Matters catches his attention,
standing erect with something
fateful written on a piece of
paper.
“Apologise for saying we are
fools ; apologise for saying that
this is an arid area; apologise
for saying we shouldn’t grow
wheat; tell us what to grow
instead; are you trying to force
us off our farms?”
An attempt by the bewildered
professor to be conciliatory, yet
at the same time to preserve his
professorial integrity; dissatisfied
voices from the audience; then
Matters nodding very deliber-
ately to a chosen minion,
“I move that the speaker be
no further heard!”
Seconded and carried
immediately despite the resistance
of the horrified chairman, no
longer amused. Adjournment for
refreshments, so that he and the
officials can take stock of the
situation.
But no refreshments for
Matters, who now looks like
Gandhi in the middle of a
successful hunger-strike. The
time to carry forward another
step, a dark plot to force an
immediate statement out >of
Regerson, which he had been
frustrating so far by remaining
unapproachable in the hotel
lounge, surrounded by under-
standing colleagues.
A minion sent to the hotel:
“Yer gotter come to the hall
now ; the ladies have got refresh-
ments on,”
And Mona there to support
him, because it would be an un-
pardonable insult to the local
ladies not to go.
There Regerson, muttering
dubiously about the sandwiches
because some dust from the road
had blown over them, unaware
of the dark looks of the enemy
surrounding him. And Harry,
always ready with the appro-
priate soothing word: “It’s only
clean country dust; not ground-
up pedestrians’ like you get in
Sydney.”
The tea too weak and not hot
enough, and the milk verging to
the turn. Worrying people to get
him another cup without any of
those faults. Then the solid
envelopment of stern faces.
“Mr. Regerson, we want to
know, here and now, what’s going
to be done about those eviction-
notices.”
Regerson at first more con-
cerned about the flies trying to
get into his second cup of tea.
“Tomorrow, tomorrow, when
I give my address.”
“Here and now!” menacingly
from Matters, and a rumble of
support from his followers that
gets Regerson’s attention long
enough for him to make a swat-
ting movement at them.
“Tomorrow ” I said. “I can't
spoil my speech by giving^ away
my main point in advance.
So adamant that they lose
some of their assurance. But
they get back at him with bitter
sneers about “spoiling his
speech,” and harry him with
taunts for keeping his speecn
for die last session. “Not game
to come out into the open.
A very angry Regerson
emerges from the crush, intent
only on getting back to the hotel
to get the taste of Wagoona out
of his mouth. Then the girl Rita,
big-eyed with excitement ana
astonishment at her own
audacity, in his path.
“Please, Mr. Regerson, did you
really mean you’d help me.
Hand raised to brush her away
with the rest of the flies; but
arrested when he sees Matter a
face, revolted at seeing her .0
appealing before him. An adept
at every kind of intrigue, as he
would need to be to rise as fa
as he has in his department.
“Of course I will, my dear gnt


A
mm
m
■
i
1
m |||
A coat
you will be proud to wear
By special arrangement with the famous
Crusader Mills, Stamina has secured a
specially attractive range of Pure Wool,
Fancy Worsted Sports Coatings. Master-
tailored in the very latest style, as only
Stamina can, these All-Purpose Coats are
now available for your selection.
You will find they are ideal for every
wear everywhere. Specially designed to
give you comfort, they are without doubt
Australia’s outstanding value.
These Stamina All-Purpose Coats are so
made that you should get 5 or 6 years’
wear from them.
ASK FOR
Stamina
i Sports Coats
B TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5.C.2-113
Come into the lounge with me,
away from all these flies.
A hand on her arm guiding
her; treating her as if she were
the ’ wife of his department’s
Minister. So utterly charming to
her that she stumbles half-way
into a coma, needing his support.
Their two figures seem to merge
as they recede in the horrified
vision of the locals.
THAT night after all the grim
locals had gone home to their
farms, the officials and visiting
delegates at the hotel held a party
to raise the spirits of the guest-
speakers. It was surprising to
me how much they unbent; even
the professor, who was induced
to sing comic Scotch songs of the
Harry Lauder variety, when the
night was well advanced. Several
determined attempts were made
to get Mona to dance on a table ;
that being regarded as the
ultimate that could be reached in
irresponsible gaiety. Twice she
was hoisted up by her most
enthusiastic admirers, and not
allowed to get down until she
had made a pretence of doing a
few steps, or managed to divert
their fuddled minds elsewhere.
The only thing that marred it
was the shortage of desirable
females: a fact which drove the
last revellers to bed disconsolate,
with the radio-man singing an
impromptu song advertising his
need.
A mere closing of the eyes and
opening again, and there beside
the radio-man’s bed, a woman.
With a tray full of early-morning
tea-cups from a considerate host
—a tray the radio-man cannot
see because his arms are out to
entwine her. Hot tea all over
him, screams from the girl, a
bound out of bed and the wildest
of chases down two flights of
stairs, fading away to more
screams and doors being banged
in his face.
What hope had he then of
getting a good hearing when his
turn came to speak, with every
woman in the village trembling
for her honor, and the gins
cavorting on the skyline every
time he emerged from the hotel.
The tea-getting matrons, not to
be beguiled by a cunningly
calculated offer to tell them what
was going to happen to their
favorite radio-serial characters in
the next four instalments, seeing
that Matters regarded him with
hostile indifference, drowned him
relentlessly in a clatter of cups
and plates,
Regerson, apparently uncon-
cerned about what might happen
to him. Very thick with Rita
from the moment she arrived in
the morning, and she starry-eyed
and intense as if she was getting
an entire university education
crowded into a few glorious
hours, over a table set apart for
them in a secluded part of the
lounge.
At last the time came for
Regerson to address the confer-
ence ; and a sensation when the
messenger sent for him couldn’t
find him. Even the green-eyed
locals who had spied on him in
'he lounge and elsewhere un-
relentingly ever since he arrived
confessed that they didn’t know
where he was. But immense
relief when he and Rita suddenly
appeared from nowhere. Then
another sensation when they
were told that they were to speak
at the same time; he in the hall
and she in an adjacent garage,
where the women were having
a session of their own. Pas-
sionate v arguments with the
officials because they just had to
have the opportunity to listen to
each other. But a reluctant bow-
ing to inevitable circumstances,
possibly with a little self-
gratulation on Regerson’s part,
because he must have appreci-
ated the advantage of not having
to compete against the teacups.
The hall filled to capacity for
him. A lot of new men, harassed
and travel-worn, joined the now-
familiar groups of locals, and,
like them, sat forward tensely in
their seats. Quite a few women
in the hall, and many others at
the door, so that they could get
some idea of what he was going
to say before going off to their
own session.
■pEGERSON walked on to the
platform, an impressive
figure with a dauntless front. A
man who could remember how
offensive the locals had been to
him the previous day, yet could
disregard it because the incident
was insignificant. His attitude
that of a man of immense affairs,
a bit peevish at having to address
as fellow-human-beings a parcel
of units who could only be
viewed in their true perspective
when grouped under their proper
statistical heading. He told them
quite a lot about the problems
of Government finance in a de-
pression, really, only to give his
speech a proper form, because
he obviously didn’t expect them
to understand that part.
“Bet you,” Harry whispered to
me in high delight, “that someone
tries to shoot him before he gets
back on his train.”
He told them about the
calamitously reduced income of
the Government, and the colossal
demands for unemployment
relief, a tale of woe that made
the locals look at each other
significantly, whisper to each
other, and settle down to a grim
hostility; they knew very well
what this sort of preamble always
led up to.
His department knew how
brave the men and women
of the marginal areas were,
and though economic realities
had to be faced, a certain
additional amount of money
had been set aside to ease
their hardship. There he paused
just long enough to give some
of the headlong locals the impres-
sion that he had concluded his
speech. Matters and half a
dozen of his fanatics jumped up
shouting:
“Questions! ” “Questions! ”
The chairman made a mock
gesture of resignation as Matters
took charge again.
“Are you going to enforce
your eviction-orders?”
Immediately a silence fell, so
tense that even Regerson must
have realised something of the
menace in collective passion
before him.
“If it can be proved, in any
case, that an injustice has been
done, or a mistake made in
assessing a man’s capacity to
carry on”
“Yes or no!” “Yes or no!”
The angry voices were off again,
starting as an involuntary chant
which merged into a roar that
made the chairman glance round
behind him hurriedly, to make
sure there was a safe line of
retreat for an emergency. The
women who had been standing
in the- doorway began a
ludicrous, desperately resisting
passage up the aisle to the edge
of the platform, as others from
outside forced their way into the
hall. The chairman had a hasty
colloquy with Regerson, came to
the front of the platform, waved
his arms and entreated. Gradu-
ally the news spread from the
front to the back of the hall that
Regerson had something to say
which would be to their benefit.
A reluctant silence, full of sub-
dued mutterings, settled down at
last.
“Without admitting that those
to be dispossessed have any
equity in the farms they are now
occupying,” said Regerson, in a
grudging way as if he didn’t
approve of people who behaved
so badly receiving any benefits,
“your Government has approved,
except in cases where flagrant
dishonesty towards the board
has been proved, of a payment
of three-hundred pounds to each
dispossessed holder who
evacuates his farm peacefully,
and leaves all stock and plant
over which the board has a
claim intact. Household furni-
ture and personal belongings
may be removed.”
A great groan rose from the
audience. They started shouting
again: “How can we make a
new start on that much?” “In
a few months we’ll all be on the
dole!” “Where’ll we go to?
There’s no jobs anywhere!”
They yelled and shouted, and
turned round to form little
vociferous groups, until they
slowly realised that the speaker
had gone, and the chairman had
gone and the conference was
over.
W HE N I got back to the hotel,
Regerson was bracing him-
self with brandy, and making
Rita take some, too. She was
weeping because all the women
had left her when her speech
was barely begun, to rush to the
hall when the noise had started.
Regerson was doing some expert
comforting.
“TheyTe a poor lot. You’re
wasted here. You come to
Sydney with me, and I’ll find
you the kind of work you
deserve, on my own staff, if you
like.”
Out in the street, all the way
from the hall to the hotel, were
groups of men and women. No
hurrying home tonight to look
after their farms and animals.
“Let them starve. Why should
we worry? TheyTe not ours.”
Some more resolute planning:
“I’m going to borrow my
brother’s two big motor-lorries.
I’ll do a moonlight flit, and all I
leave behind won’t be worth
much.”
In the hotel the official party
and the long-distance delegates
were relaxing. There was no
train until early next morning,
and even those who’d come in
cars decided to stay and make
another night of it. When they
happened to look out of the
windows they showed no concern
for the agitated groups in the
street. After all, in those days
people who lived in cities were
always rubbing shoulders with
poverty and despair, and there
was nothing they could do about
it. And as far as the distant
delegates were concerned, Harry
summed-up their attitude very
neatly:
“It’s a terrible thing to lose
your farm. A bloke had better
be careful. When I get back I’ll
sack a couple of old hands I’ve
got on my place. I’m not paying
them much, but, by God, a man
can’t take any risk of ending-up
like this.”
We had a reasonably-cheerful
dinner, with plenty of liquor on
the table. The girl Rita still
with us, shepherded by Reger-
son ; half-drunk and foolishly
excited about going to Sydney,
between bouts of forlorn disap-
pointment about her undelivered
speech.
When we returned to the
lounge we were surprised to see
from the windows that most of
the locals were still there. They
had formed into one big group
now, and were evidently having
a crude sort of public meeting
of their own, with Matters for
chairman, and wild-voiced men
and women moving motions and
making speeches, in what looked
like a crazy caricature of the
recent proceedings in the hall.
“TheyTe going to lynch you,
Regerson,” Harry told him, grin-
ning. “You’d better take to the
mallee before they come for
you. You don’t know how wild
they are in these parts. Several
years ago they bumped off a
policeman they didn’t like, and it
was two years before the depart-
ment could find a man brave
enough to take his place.”
PRESENTLY a deputation
from the meeting came
marching into the hotel lounge,
very truculently, and quite un-
concerned about the private
{Continued on page 34)


The Big Home Is Now a Monastery
An Early-day Aristocrat
1. — Vineyard, Parramatta
On her mother’s side a granddaughter of Governor King,
on her father’s a grandniece of John Macarthur, of Elizabeth
Farm (and early-Australian wool fame), the writer of these
reminiscences was a native-born member of what can be called
the then-young country’s aristocracy —as she indicates, rather
exclusive till the Fitzroys set the example for a more liberal
Patt That atmosphere and her upbringing naturally color her
outlook, making her impressions of the Australia of her day
somewhat different from the usual. At the same time, she
could take as a matter of course leaving her comparatively
sheltered Parramatta and Sydney surroundings, her Government
House visits and the like, and go off as the girl-bride of one of
the Leslies who pioneered Queensland’s Darling Downs.
A daughter of Hannibal Hawkins Macarthur, of Vineyard,
near Parramatta (Vineyard is now the Monastery of Subiaco),
she was bom in 1828 and died in England in 1912. She was
baptised Emmeline Maria. Her father, coming first to the
new colony in 1804, when he was 18, to help his uncle at
Elizabeth Farm, went back to England, married the daughter
of former Governor King, then returned and bought from
Captain Waterhouse his farm on the Parramatta River, living
in the farm-house while he built the large home he called
Vineyard because it was the spot where grapes were first
planted. . ,
He was Police Magistrate in Parramatta, the first elected
member of the Legislative Council for the same district, and
chairman of the Bank of Australia, which a severe drought
ruined. Later he was Commissioner of Crown Lands at Braid-
wood, and finally Police Magistrate at Ipswich (Q.), where he
and his wife died.
Of her mother (Governor King’s daughter), Emmeline
recorded that “She played Mozart as well as she played High-
land reels for her children.” In 1847 Emmeline married George
Farquhar, fourth son of William Leslie of Warthill, Aberdeen-
shire, Scotland, and they lived on his fine property, Canning
Downs (Darling Downs, Queensland), till 1852.
About 1854 they went to England because of his ill-
health; he died there, and later she married Vigant de Falbe, a
captain in the Danish Navy and brother of the then Danish
Ambassador in London. Her reminiscences (of which
this is the first publication), written specially for her
two- sons, one of whom became General de Falbe,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., are here given in two instalments, the first
dealing mainly with happenings at Vineyard and in
Parramatta and Sydney, the second (concluding) instalment
dealing with Canning Downs, a visit to England and Scotland,
and a violent voyage on the N. S. Wales coast, with the captain
drunk and the storm-broken ship close to being lost.
jMßßgal FTER a brief introduc-
|f| | tory section, outlining
Hra I some generally-familiar
I early-Australia history
BgEasßßl anc i Governor King’s
career, Emmeline de Falbe
launches into her own story:
I was born in July, 1828. I
was baptised by Archdeacon
Scott, the head of the Church
Establishment of Australia,
under the Archbishop of Cal-
cutta. I am called Emmeline
after my father’s cousin
Emmeline Macarthur of Cam-
den (afterwards Lady Parker),
and Maria after my mother. I
was confirmed by Bishop
Broughton, the first Bishop
of Australia, with his two
daughters.
The Rev. Samuel Marsden,
first missionary to New Zea-
land, had known my mother in
childhood, was a friend of her
parents in early days and was
always welcome at Vineyard by
old and young.
In 1841, Bishop Selwyn, the
first Bishop of New Zealand,
arrived with his chaplain, Mr.
Cotton, who was delighted to
find my father as enthusiastic
about bees as he was. He wrote
My Bee Book. I remember him
putting a small star of tinfoil on
the queen-bee’s back so that we
could watch her at work
through the glass sides of the
hives.
We lived three miles by road
from a village called Parra-
matta ; one mile through fields,
by crossing a river. The summer
residence of the Governor was
at Parramatta.
Our home was a large pro-
perty, 15 miles from Sydney,
bounded on one side by a tidal-
river navigable for small
steamers, and on the other side
by extensive forests chiefly com-
posed of gumtrees; a good
farmhouse with cultivated fields,
and outbuildings three-quarters
of a mile from the house, large
gardens, and, in the heart of the
forest, a semicircular terraced
vineyard with a stream at the
The Australian-born writer of these different-from-usual, because
almost-uniquely happy and sunny, early-day reminiscences, was
an old lady at Cheltenham (Eng.) when this photograph was taken.
foot bordered with ferns and
mimosa: a lovely spot.
My first knowledge of my
surroundings was a long, low
cottage forming two sides of a
large grass square covering a
huge tank of roof-water for
drinking purposes, with a pump
in the centre: olive-trees and
roses growing in the square, in
which my brother kept his
bantams. I have distinct recol-
lections, at five years of age, of
being led by a great Newfound-
land dog—Watch was his name
—my hand in his mouth, to meet
my father as he disembarked at
the little jetty on his return, by
water, from Sydney.
After that comes remem-
brance of the laying of the
foundation-stone of the large
house [Vineyard], which was
completed in my eighth year. I
recollect my wonder at seeing
my maternal grandmother King
[widow of Governor King]
place real money under the
stone.
My next recollection is of my
[namesake] cousin arriving in
1837: “Have you heard the
news that the King is dead? Of
course we must all wear mourn-
ing. We shall have the young
Queen now.”
My young brain speculated
on this outburst, and I asked,
“Will the young Queen wear
clothes like that?’’—pointing at
a large painting on the wall.
They all laughed. At that period
colonial Governors were pre-
sented with oil-paintings, life-
size, of the reigning Majesties,
King and Queen, in Coronation-
robes. As the Governor’s
widow, they were now in my
grandmother’s possession, in
their massive gilt frames, and
were placed in the drawing-
room, and we children delighted
in the robes as well as his
Majesty’s [George IV] legs and
garter. Those pictures are now
in Government House, Sydney.
In the building and furnish-
ing of that delightful home,
which formed the opposite sides
of the square to the cottage,
henceforth called the barracks
or bachelors’ quarters, every-
thing was done by workmen on
the estate; building, furniture
and upholstery in temporary
workshops. Our childish delight
was to watch all these various
works, from the brick-kiln to
the carpenter’s - shavings. The
damask sofas and wardrobes
were of choice Australian
woods ; the floors (in the dining-
room 35ft. long without a break)
were kauri-pine from New Zea-
land ; and marble mantelpieces
from the estate inland.
As soon as we were in the
large house, my grandmother
King lived with us for the rest
of her life. She had her own
carriage - and - pair, coachman,
boy and maid. We were taught
to reverence her; a handsome,
tall, stately old lady, with
beautiful hair dressed high
under a tulle cap and a row of
sausage-shaped curls of false-
hair in front a la mode. She
always sat at my father’s right-
hand at family prayers. I can
see her now, always handsomely
dressed and generally wearing
an embroidered apron and some
white lace or embroidery on her
shoulders —quite a picture!
She used to give us children
money as birthday - presents,
commencing at ss. and gradu-
ally increasing till the joyful day
when an order for £1 was the
gift. I recollect her celebrating
Twelfth Night, with all its old
fashions, for our amusement, to
which our neighbors were
invited.
Our childhood was radiantly
happy. A nursery - governess,
who had come from a noble
house in England, cared for us.
She afterwards married well,
and never lost her interest in us.
I was instructed in the three
“R’s,” and needlework was
included in my lessons. I was
taught every sort of work re-
quired in the making of a shirt,
from seam to buttonhole, as
well as to mark it. Once that
was accomplished I was allowed
to choose for which brother I
would make it.
The moonlight and starlight
of Australia are indescribably
beautiful, and in the hot weather
our delight was to be allowed to
go into the woods and chase the
moon, and start the chorus of
laughing-jackasses by imitating
their unearthly peals. We were
encouraged to observe every-
thing about us insects and
flowers, birds and beasts. We
had our pet parrots and
possums, brought to us from
the woods in their infancy. My
white cockatoo, which called me
by name, and which could fly
around the house and in at my
window, was banished ulti-
mately, to my great sorrow,
because it acquired the habit of
making holes with its powerful
beak in the leaden waterpipes.
To this day the cry of a
guinea-fowl or peacock takes
my mind back to my childhood.
The guinea-fowl roosted in the
trees near the house; the pea-
cock walked majestically or
screamed from the ridge of the
stable. We kept rabbits and
carried the young ones onto the
lawn to nibble the clover
more to our satisfaction than
theirs, I dare say.
Sunday was a happy day.
The carriage, called a “britska,”
held four, and one outside with
the coachman, and went by the
road three miles to church. My
grandmother’s carriage only
took two, with a little seat which
drew-out in the centre and
enabled her to invite any
favored visitor or child to ac-
company her to her pew. I was
generally the favored one. The
overflow of servants and chil-
dren were rowed up the river in
a boat.
The large barracks at the
landing-place were convict-
barracks, and I recollect my
childish pity for those poor men
in yellow clothes watching our
happy party through their
prison-bars. Those low iron-
barred windows were on a level
with the pier. Later, the
barracks were occupied by an
English regiment, and then our
pleasure was to arrive in time
to march with the regimental-
band to church. All were ex-
pected to go to church, a very
bare edifice: the pulpit perched
on top of the stairs, organ-loft
at the back, voluntary choir and
clerk’s-desk under the pulpit,
square pews or single pews
shut-in with doors, black gowns
and long sermons.
There were two ugly spires
built by my grandmother as a
surprise during the Governor’s
absence—frightful extinguishers!
—St. John’s, Parramatta,
On Sunday afternoon all the
world went for a walk, and in
the evening Papa read a short
sermon to the assembled house-
hold, and the children suffered
fidgets. Old Matty Kempsett,
who swept the roads and ferried
the boat across the river, and
only shaved and made himself
clean on Sunday, always sat
behind my father and grand-
mother that he might hear. We
were a goodly congregation,
young and old, masters and ser-
vants, and never without some
visitors on whom the scene left
a lasting impression.
Education was my mother’s
great anxiety. My elder sisters
had been educated entirely by
an accomplished English lady
who afterwards married a dis-
tinguished member of the
Government. My mother insti-
tuted a dancing-class at Vine-
yard with our little neighbors,
and we had a drill-sergeant from
the regiment. I also had the
only available, but very indiffer-
ent, instruction in music. A
Scotch lady, who had come to
Australia to live with her
brother who held a Government
appointment, finding such an
arrangement impossible, ac-
cepted the charge of my edu-
cation. Some years later, she
married my eldest brother.
I only recollect my mother
as an invalid; never able to
share our outdoor life, never
complaining, always cheerful
and ready for us when able
We all worshipped her: she was
the triumph of mind over
matter. She would come down
after days of suffering and play
reels for us to dance. Her sway
was the rule of love. When we
made any small petition to our
father, “Ask your mother” was
his invariable reply, and her
decision settled every question.
She must have been extremely
pretty in her youth, and even
after years of suffering had
lovely eyes and the sweetest
expression.
During my childhood men
and women were transported to
Botany Bay, or rather to Syd-
ney, not only for serious crimes,
but for offences which in these
days are punished by a fine or
short imprisonment. My father
was a true philanthropist and
rescued many from a position of
degradation to become not only
good but rich citizens.
Those who behaved ill were
“reported to Government” [by
their employers], which meant to
be herded with criminals and
incorrigibles in iron-gangs on
public-works. It was a pitiful
sight to meet troops of these
men with leg-irons, marched
out to their daily labor by
soldiers. With kind, considerate
employers these men spent many
years in good and faithful ser-
vice, but tyrannical masters
caused the ruin of many.
Although my father had many
convict-servants, he at no time
allowed any to enter the home
establishment. Our maids came
from Scotland, our menservants
were either free English emi-
grants or Indians. Our dresses,
haberdashery, stationery, etc.,
came direct from England,
selected by my father’s sisters.
The arrival of these large cases
was a great excitement.


Ships arriving were signalled
by semaphore to Parramatta,
and the red flag warned us of
the arrival of the Royal George
with my brother Charlie arriv-
ing from education in England.
I was allowed up to receive him
(1835). In the evening we heard
the oars of the man-o’-war boat
in which our friend Captain
Harding, familiarly termed
Uncle Frank, brought him home
with two younger brothers of
Patrick Leslie, who was by that
time engaged to my sister Katie.
They found a home in my
father’s house, and many years
afterwards I married the
youngest brother.
They arrived at a moment of
severe Australian drought, when
the cows were fed on the roots
of the couch-grass, and my
sisters took the new arrivals to
show them one patch of green
grass under the church walls.
Between 1840 and 1843 all my
four sisters were married. Katie
married Patrick Leslie, the
younger, of Warthill, Aberdeen-
shire, and her marriage was a
very gay affair; eight brides-
maids, and I was the eldest of
the four younger ones. In 1840
I was just 12 years old, and the
others were little ones.
The youngest of the quartette
of sisters, Mary, married Hugh
Gordon, the younger, of Manar,
Aberdeenshire, and Annie, the
second daughter, married Cap-
tain Wickham, late Commander
of H.M.S. Beagle. The eldest,
married her first-cousin,
the eldest son of my mother’s
brother. Admiral King, in 1843.
At this time my father also
had a cottage on the South Head
entrance to Sydney Harbor,
which he called Clovelly. His
youth having been spent chiefly
at Plymouth, he loved boating
and deep-sea fishing. From the
front-veranda we looked seven
miles up the landlocked harbor,
with its lovely little promon-
tories, coves and white-sanded
beaches, upon Sydney in the
distance. Within a stone’s-
throw of our back-gate we stood
upon a precipitous cliff looking
down to the Pacific Ocean. This
spot was called the Gap ; the
cliffs rising on either side some
200 ft. of a sheer drop into the
ocean. In a gale the spray
reached our house.
A small adjoining house was
occupied by a pilot. At that
time the several pilots had
whaleboats and New Zealand
crews, and the first to reach the
ship secured the pilotage. They
had to row some distance around
the South Head promontory, but
our tenant placed a rope-ladder
over the precipitous cliff, and, in
calm weather, his boat lay-off
and he joined them if a ship
appeared on the horizon, and
won the race.
We generally spent two or
three months at Clovelly for my
mother’s health, and we children
revelled in our life there, bath-
ing from the white, hard-sanded
beaches and playing amongst
rocks and flowers and ferns in
natural growth and beauty.
There was only one other
house at Watson’s Bay. The
road from Sydney extended only
to the lighthouse, which stood
at a considerable distance above
Clovelly at the edge of the cliff
which extends along the coast to
Botany Bay, so that we chiefly
depended upon our communica-
tions by water. We had a yawl
and a Portsmouth wherry, and
two Highland boatmen. The
afternoon was generally spent,
in fine weather, upon the water,
and when a man-o’-war was in
harbor we often had one of the
ship’s boats and crew, with their
officer, at our disposal. Divine-
service was held in a small room
at the lighthouse, and I have
sometimes climbed up to the
lantern with my father.
An aboriginal named Charlie
Tara devoted himself to my
brother Charlie, who, he heard,
had arrived by water, but he
[Charlie Tara] had never seen
the sea. He was brought to
Clovelly after dark, and next
morning blindfolded, and led to
the edge of the cliff. He simply
gazed upon the Pacific Ocean
with a puzzled air, and said
[translated], “I don’t see
Charlie’s track” —and that was
the only remark his instinct led
him to make.
Charlie Tara was the
fellow who went with Count
Strzelecki and my eldest brother
James on an expedition; they
discovered and named Gipps-
land.
[Sir Paul Edmund de
Strzelecki, born at Gluszna,
Poland, in 1797, arrived in Syd-
ney from New Zealand in 1839.
His main object was to examine
the mineralogy of New South
Wales, but he found the geo-
logical field so interesting that
he stuck to that in country
stretching from Port Stephens
to the southern extremity of
Tasmania, He, in 1840, accom-
panied by James Macarthur,
climbed and named Mt.
Kosciusko after General
Kosciusko, the Polish patriot.
As quoted, he also, with James
Macarthur, discovered and
named Gippsland. He was
knighted K.C.B. and K.C.M.G.
for his good work amongst the
starving Irish in 1846, and for
helping to promote the emigra-
tion of impoverished English
families to Australia. He died
in London in 1873.]
In 1840 I recollect Sir William
Hobson arriving en route to
New Zealand, and his secretary,
Mr. Willoughby Shortland, who
afterwards sent my mother his
notes of the first Governor’s
first meeting with the New Zea-
land chiefs, I possess a copy of
those notes. [This refers to the
Treaty of Waitangi, between the
Governor, Sir William Hobson,
and representatives of the
Maoris, who ceded sovereignty
to the British crown and the
islands became a British colony.]
My grandmother [King] died
in July, 1844; my first experi-
ence of death, for I was with her
to the last, my mother ill in bed.
Her death left a great blank in
our home.
On my elder sisters’ marriages
I was left, at fifteen, in charge
of that large establishment, of
course under my mother’s
guidance, who was confined to
her room for weeks at a time.
For the housekeeping to
which I was suddenly called,
necessaries of all kinds were
procurable in Sydney. The
orders for Vineyard were for
large quantities. We had huge
jars, some 3ft. high, for rice and
raw sugar, etc. Loaves of sugar
ranged on the shelves: raisins
and currants, etc., wholesale.
Tea came direct, in chests, from
William Leslie in Canton, with
many other good things—-ginger,
coffee and chocolate.
Bread was baked at home.
Formerly we had a mill and
ground wheat for ourselves and
neighbors, but, in my day, flour
was procurable from Parra-
matta, and the mill was de-
molished. Dairy produce came
from the farm, fish was brought
by water occasionally from
Sydney. A butcher at the farm
killed our own sheep; good
bent could be procured at Parra-
matta, fruit and flowers ad
libitum.
Our only garden enemies
were drought and flying-
squirrels, commonly called
flying-foxes—large bats which
attacked the ripe pears, and
which afforded my brothers
some sport on moonlight nights.
A large wine-cellar with
quarter-casks on trestles, port,
sherry and marsala on draught,
bottled-beer in casks from Eng-
land. The basement was chiefly
used as store-rooms. We used
standard-lamps ; a branch chan-
delier in the dining-room and
figures in alcoves on the stairs
held lamps, burning whale-oil
from the South Sea whalers.
Candles in silver branches
ordinarily used with tall glass-
shades to keep off draughts and
moths —Indian fashion. Wax-
candles came direct from Eng-
land ; excellent candles were
made at home, as we had plenty
of beeswax. We burned coals
and wood. Coals came from
Newcastle in steamers to our
jetty. I found a clever Indian
cook in the kitchen ; we had a
manservant in livery, and
several maidservants, besides
my mother’s maid, chiefly from
Ayrshire. All laundry-work was
done at home. We once had a
negro butler, and most efficient
he was, but generally we had an
Englishman as butler, and my
father had his own factotum,
who went with him when he
travelled inland.
The only keys in the house
were the wine-cellar, cellarette
and storeroom keys. In hot
weather doors and windows were
open all night and shut all day.
The house, with thick walls, was
always cool.
Soon after I took the reins,
we had a Madras manservant,
so clean and clever, in all ways
a great help to me. One day we
had a large party for a picnic
down the river to return for
supper. I felt rather nervous
as to the supper, and con-
fided my fears to Oliver.
“Please, Miss, leave it to me ; I
will make it all right by the
time you come home.” The
actual provisions had been fully
arranged for, but I had no one
to see to details. The garden-
hedge at the moment was a mass
of pink roses, and to give me
pleasure there were roses every-
The old Hannibal Macarthur home, Vineyard, near Parramatta, now
the Benedictine Monastery of Subiaco, Rydalmere.
where on the table, perfectly
arranged in all respects. It was
ever afterwards called “The
Feast of Roses.”
The steamer for Sydney
passed at 9 a.m., breakfast was
ready at 8, and my father
expected us to appear. He had
been on the council, nominated
by Government, but, on the
grant of franchise, he was duly
elected Member for Parramatta
in the Legislative Council. The
election caused a great stir in a
quiet little town. My father
celebrated the event in old Eng-
lish fashion; an ox, roasted
whole, on the village green,
rustic games, banners, etc. We
drove round the town “true-
blue.”
My father’s legislative duties
took him frequently to Sydney,
and with those who had brought
introductions to him from Eng-
land, and many celebrated
travellers whom he met, we had
a constant flow of visitors.
My mother’s brother [Philip
P. King, R.N.] and her sister
had married sister and brother
of the family of Lethbridge of
Tregear, Cornwall. They were
settled near each other, 15 miles
from Parramatta. My uncle was
a distinguished sailor; he had
surveyed the Straits of Magellan
and Torres Strait, and on his
retirement built an observatory
and was in constant correspon-
dence with the scientific societies
of London during the rest of his
life. He died admiral.
Another constant visitor was
my father’s cousin, William
Macarthur of Camden, an ex-
pert botanist, friend of Sir
William Hooker of Kew, with
whom he maintained a constant
exchange of plants. Later on,
he was knighted. Such men
meeting at Vineyard, together
with my father’s intelligent
interest and thorough education,
brought about such society and
conversation as could not fail
to leave an impression upon the
children, who were always en-
couraged to look for some new
thing on “terra incognita.”
On one occasion our woods
took fire. The smoke was
seen from Parramatta and great
was the relief when a squad of
soldiers and their officer
appeared on the scene. My
father was absent that day in
Sydney. Although a strong, hot
wind was blowing, the farm
fences and crops were saved,
but the fire approached danger-
ously near the house, which,
like all other houses, was roofed
with wooden shingles. All
serious danger was over before
dark, but the soldiers remained
all night long under the colon-
nade in case of a fresh outbreak.
My sister and I were too
excited to rest, so we dragged
our mattresses onto the upper
colonnade and spent the night
there on Easter Eve watching
the most splendid fireworks at
a safe distance. In such cases,
the foliage was so dried that the
flames scorched the leaves with-
out injuring the tree, presenting
a most wonderful sight, whilst
the fire leapt up the branches,
and after a time the foliage
reappeared. In a gale of wind,
the sparks frequently blew
across the river, setting the
opposite woods on fire.
During the years of my girl-
hood, 1844-47, many were the
changes in my surroundings.
Patrick and Katie went to Scot-
land with their little boy, and
on visiting the tenants at the
old home, the “auld wifie”
declared that he “was no black,
after all.” She had verily be-
lieved that a child born in that
land of savages must be black.
On their return, Patrick built a
delightful cottage on the banks
of the Brisbane River, and
called it Newstead. They were
scarcely settled there when they
left to rejoin the brothers Leslie
on the Downs. Katie had a
rough time as the first lady to
go to that new country.
By this time we were a
scattered family. James had
gone to farm in Tasmania ; the
elder sisters were all married ;
Charlie had married and gone
inland; George had taken holy
orders, was engaged to be
married and had a curacy in
Sydney, He was Chaplain to the
Forces. John had gone to work
under Philip King at Stroud,
Port Stephens, so that my young
brother Arthur and sister Emma
were alone left with me.
I can only once remember the
reunion of the whole of our
family, in January, 1840. I sup-
pose it was some anniversary,
as all the young ones were at
the table, as well as our grand-
mother. Great anxiety had been
felt as to the fate of Count
Strzelecki and my eldest
brother [on the Gippsland
expedition]. Whilst we were at
dinner, my brother arrived un-
expectedly to the joy and relief
of everyone, making the circle
complete ; broken next morning
by some departures, never again
to be reunited.
We had a most pleasant circle
of friends settled within easy
distance, chiefly on the banks
of the river above Vineyard;
Mrs. Gore, with a son retired
from the Army, and his wife,
and a son preparing for holy
orders, were in residence, also
two daughters. Two sons came
and went to their station in
Queensland ; the eldest inherited
a baronetcy.
Below Vineyard, with four
daughters and a son-in-law [one
of the Gores], lived Mrs.
Baldock: a charming, accom-
plished family. Mr. Gore and
his lovely young wife, the
youngest daughter, met with a
tragic fate. They were drowned,
with two young children, in a
shipwreck on the coast. My
brother Charlie married another
sister. The Gore family were
all musical, and it was delight-
ful to hear their part-singing as
they rowed up the river after
spending the evening at Vine-
yard.
Sir George Gipps was thb
Governor, and 1 went to Lady
Gipps for my first ball. Their
only son, afterwards Sir
Reginald Gipps, often came to
us for an afternoon’s amusement
before he was sent to England
to school. They had a country-
house at Parramatta.
Men-o’-war were sent on
scientific duties surveying the
coast, and always refitted
at Sydney. Mere boys at
that time went to sea. My
mother always mothered
them at Vineyard.
Indian civil - servants
were allowed to come to
Australia on leave, on full
pay, and amongst Govern-
ment officials, soldiers and
sailors, their wives and
families, many friends
were made for life who
afterwards welcomed me
in England.
We seldom left home,
unless for any festivity at
Government House. I
never was at a ball m
Sydney, except at Govern-
ment House, unless
chaperoned by the wife of
the Governor, My mother
was too delicate to take
me into society. Our
society was numerous
enough to dance at home
whenever we felt disposed,
and our music was gener-
ally some of the regimental-
band placed in the colonnade
outside the windows.
Early in 1846, Sir Charles
Fitzroy, Governor-General, and
Lady Mary Fitzroy arrived in
Australia. They ,came to Vine-
yard until Government House
was ready to receive them.
I was absent during their
visit, spending some months
with my sister Mary and Hugh
Gordon, but from the time of
my return until her tragic
death December 6, 1847
Lady Mary was the kindest
friend that a girl ever possessed.
Recognising my mother’s deli-
cacy, she sent for me upon every
occasion of festivity, and many
were the happy days, or even
weeks, that 1 spent at Govern-
ment House.
Until Sir Charles Fitzroy’s
arrival, a very hard-and-fast line
was drawn between the old free-
colonists and those who even
in a remote degree had been
associated painfully with the
past.
I recollect the Birth-night
ball, when all officials were
invited “de rigueur,” and some
were accompanied by their
families, who were not always
met under more exclusive con-
ditions. I heard Lady Mary
ask my brother to “go and invite
those pretty girls to dance,” and
she added, “It is time now some
prejudices should be removed.”
And I felt surely it was time
that the third- and fourth-
generation should be allowed to
draw a sponge over past history,
especially as in this case the
father was of good English
family and holding an important
position. As a fact, those very
girls afterwards married men in
the Service.
The famous traveller
Leichhardt was frequently with
us [at Vineyard]. He started on
(Continued on page 34)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
, DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
You may be
losing
a lot of value in
your foodstuffs
It is well established that
ground feed has very much
higher nutritive value than
plain feed, resulting in more
milk, more meat, more wool.
r
m
GRIND YOUR
OWN FEED
with a
PULVOMILL
HAMMER TYPE GRINDER
4 Models Available
Models E. & F. for use on the average farm.
Model H. for use on larger farms and in industry.
Model EOS. specially designed for Oyster Shell
Grinding.
GRINDING, MIXING & BAGGING OFF IN
ONE OPERATION
Sole Distributors
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Nr. Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509 Phone, BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
AD 19
For TB I I fif from
GOUTS RHEUMATISMS^
£55
hi—■
iiits
iib2
jlftMMS*
I I*
11.1I 1 .1 /
«•>«««
W
CfllCBia"”"
ns SOMETHING
OUT OF THE
It is the only treatment of its
kind available in Australia—the
only treatment containing COL-
CHICUM, GUIACOL and
APIUM in a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints. ,
For mild attacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
ment. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensationall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL. 17/6 LARGE, 30/-
Or by mail from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford
Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Darby Munro did the right
thing when he elected to ride
at Flemington instead of at
Warwick Farm last Saturday.
He piloted three heavily-backed
winners—Flying Halo, Acra-
mitis and Sydney-owned Gal-
lant Archer. It was due to his
clever horsemanship that all
three were successful, and the
Flemington crowd didn’t forget
to let him know they appreci-
ated his clever displays.
• • • •
Darby is now in the early
forties ; he had a birthday last
week. Twenty-five years ago
he was riding winners, and
among his important successes
were the A.J.C. Champagne
Stakes on Chemosh and the
Doncaster on Venetian Lady,
both in 1930. He is still riding
as vigorously, too, and with as
much skill as he had shown a
couple of decades ago.
• • • •'
Crack Melbourne three-year-
old Cromis had an exercise
gallop to win the £3500 V.R.C.
St. Leger, and it seems only a
matter of the colt visiting Sydney
to win the A.J.C. Red Riband
So far, however, there is nothing
definite on this point. Cromis
ran slow time for the classic on
Saturday because there was
nothing in the race to extend
him. A week earlier he had won
the £10,500 Queen Elizabeth
Stakes, and prior to that the St.
George Stakes at Caulfield. In
the St. Leger he started at a
nominal 7 to 1 on.
Pleasant weather and the
prospects of seeing good racing
by autumn candidates resulted
in a crowd of 27,500 attending
the March meeting of the A.J.C.
at Warwick Farm. The course
was in grand condition and fast
times were run, Warwick Farm
is, in fact, so gaining in popu-
larity that racegoers feel there
should be more fixtures there,
though those who went by
motor-car ran into a heavy traffic
snarl on the way home. The
narrow (historic) bridge close to
the course was one of the causes
of the hold-up. The club didn’t
provide enough racebooks, so the
big crowd must have taken
officials by surprise.
Three horses with engage-
ments in the Doncaster —
Karendi, Persian Link and
Compound—won at Warwick
Farm, while a Sydney Cup light-
weight, Headstockman, ran
record time in the March Han-
dicap. The only one of the
quartet likely to develop into a
real Easter chance, however.
should be the grey three-year-
old Persian Link.
Persian Link is a solidly-
built grey gelding by Persia
from a staying mare, Two’s
Company. He won at Warwick
Farm in Three-year-old Gradua-
tion Stakes company with 8.11,
giving Bill Cook a reasonably
easy ride. Persian Link drops
to 7.7 in the Randwick mile, a
lighter weight than he has had
in many months. But, of course,
the company will be top-class,
as the best milers in Australia
will be in opposition in the
Doncaster.
* * * •
Karendi and Compound
were not impressive as Don-
caster chances, while Head-
stockma.n, despite his runaway
win in the March Handicap,
doesn’t appeal much as a likely
Sydney Cup winner. The two
miles might find him wanting.
Failures in the Warwick Farm
Flying are certain to soon do
better; Silver Phantom is one
that seems bound to be im-
proved.
• • « •
It would be a fairly safe
wager that the stables sheltering
Finisterre and African Queen
profited little from their War-
wick Farm wins at 33 to 1 and
100 to 1 respectively. However,
owners of the winners are
wealthy enough to be quite
happy over the surprise results.
W. J. Smith, who races African
Queen, is a modest punter at all
times, and Sir Sydney Snow,
who paid 2000 guineas for
Finisterre, also isn’t noted as a
punter. Later in the afternoon
Free Ruk, at 20’s, dealt backers
a further blow.
• • •
Lady Medallist (Caulfield Cup
and A.J.C. Craven Plate),
Moorilla (Sydney Cup) and
Carlita (one of the best staying
mares to have raced in Australia ;
winner of £17,830) all belong
to the family which produced
Pompilia, who showed improved
form to open her winning-
account in two-year-old company
at Rosehill. Her sire, Abbots
Fell, is a son of Felstead, an
English Derby winner.
New Zealand owners seldom
send their best horses to Aus-
tralia in the autumn. With
them it generally is a case of
having a shot at the Caulfield
and the Melbourne Cups.
Hence, a New Zealand winner
of the Sydney Cup would be
something unusual, but it could
happen next month, as one of
the most fancied Cup horses is
Dominion stayer Gold Scheme.
• • • •
Gold Scheme is trained by
L. J. Ellis, who was in Sydney
a few years ago with Bruce,
winner at w.-f.-a. at Randwick.
E. N. Fitzgerald, a Dominion
farmer, races the four-year-old.
Go(d Scheme won the N.Z. Cup
and St. Leger last year. The
visitor is a sound stayer
weighted at 8.4, or 41b. more
than he carried to victory in the
N.Z. Cup, also, like the Sydney
Cup, run at two miles.
Sydney sportsman Adolph
Basser bought the chestnut
yearling three-quarter brother to
Cromis at the Melbourne sales
last week for 4200 guineas, and
if looks and breeding count the
youngster could turn out a top-
class performer. He is by
Helios (imp.), sire of Cromis,
from Wynunda by Portofino
(imp.) from Mercian Queen
(sister to Royal Feast, winner of
£13,000) by King Off a (imp.).
Because of his first-season
success at the stud in Australia
—his progeny winning a record
£17,365 —there was keen bidding
for the Empyrean (imp.) colts.
Top Melbourne trainer of two-
year-olds, Fred Hoysted, in six-
minutes’ operations, paid a total
of 7150gns. for three sons of the
importation offered on behalf of
L. F. Aldridge, of Kismet Park
Stud, Sunbury. They followed
one another into the sale-ring.
“Blast these jet-propelled ones!”
The 3000gns. Trinity colt and
the Luminant 1550gns. colt will
be raced by A. R. Creswick, and
the 2600gns. Tres Chic colt by
Noel Peel (also of Melbourne).
The Trinity colt is related to
Ungar (£20,821 in stakes), while
Luminant’s colt is a relative of
that grand mare Flight (£30,627)
and of St. Razzle. The Tres
Chic colt is from a sister to
Ungar and LTsage.
It was no surprise when the
bay colt by Comic Court from
French Gem topped sale-prices
at 2000gns. on the final day. He
is a half-brother to Royal Gem
(winner of £27,800 in stakes, sold
to the U.S.A. for £30,000, and
sire in his first season of Dark
Sky, Kentucky Derby winner).
The yearling colt also is similarly
related to Beau Gem, Crown
Gem and others of the noted
“Gem” family. Though many
yearlings were taken from the
catalogue aggregate sales totalled
143,640gn5. for an average of
511gns.
Sydney paddock - bookmaker
Ken Ranger, who has bred a
few winners, added another to his
list when Gracias, a 20-to-l shot,
won the First Maiden Two-year-
old at Doomben. The gelding is
by Cragsman, a speedy winner
on Sydney tracks a few seasons
ago when carrying the colors of
Ranger and Wally Watson. Dam
of Gracias is Miss Chatterbox
by Talking. Golden Doll, winner
of the third division of the
Doomben sprint, is a product of
the Woodlands Stud Farm,
Denman (N.S.W.). A first foal,
she is by Confessor (imp.) from
Tiny Slipper by Brueghel (Ital.).
• • • •
Two sons of Concise, a
former Sydney stayer, won races
last Saturday—Headstockman
at Warwick Farm and Gallant
Paul, a 40-to-l chance, at New-
castle. A two-year-old bay geld-
ing from Floating Spinster, a
mare bred in 1936 by Buoyant
Bachelor (imp.) from Proto by
Rossendale (imp.), Gallant Paul
won in Maiden company. Head-
stockman probably is the best
son of Concise to date.
Queen of All, speedy winner
of two Sydney two-year-old
events this season in A. O.
Romano s colors, is a half-sister
to Bassano, sold at the 1951
Randwick sales, but until last
week a non-winner. Bassano
won at odds-on in a Gosford
Maiden, so connections so far
haven’t found the four-year-old
gelded son of Confessor (imp.)
and Princess Sovereign much of
a proposition. Maybe he will
soon add to winnings, as he is
a descendant of a former stayer
of note, Trenton.
N.S.W. bagged the Sheffield
Shield; four outright wins, two
first-innings wins, one lost out-
right (26 points). Victoria (24
points), Queensland (13), S.A.
(8), W.A. (3). W.A., of course,
plays only four matches. For it
to win it must be best “on per-
centages.”
Vic. skipper lan Johnson,
bagging six wickets in each
innings in the match against
S.A., took most Shield wickets
(37) at the lowest cost (16.37).
He’s still one of the best spinners
playing in Australia; but at 35
it’s doubtful whether he’ll be
recalled to the Test side.
Colin McDonald’s 229 against
S.A. was his highest Shield score
(beating his 207 against N.S.W.
in 1951-52); it’s the highest indi-
vidual score in Shield cricket this
season. Two others ran into the
220’s: Hole, who’s had a good
season, made 226 against
Queensland in Adelaide and
Queenslander Mackay 223
against Victoria in Bris-
bane. McDonald topped
Shield totals (733 runs, av.
56.3); Mackay, 10 less (723),
had the best Shield average of
those who played 10 innings or
more (72.3); next-best Miller’s
63.75 (510 runs). Benaud was
best all-rounder, with a batting
average of 60 (total 668) and
30 wickets at 27.7.
On his ’keeping against N.S.W.
recently, 33-year-old Gil Langley
seems still Australia’s No, 1 back-
stop. Australia has two promis-
ing young ’keepers, Len
Maddocks (Vic.) and Grout
(Q.), but Langley will probably
still be Test ’keeper next season.
One of his fine efforts earlier
this year was that he did not give
away a run in a score of 403
made by Victoria. Langley is
not the spectacular, exuberant
type, like Evans of England.
But lan Johnson, for one, is on
record that Langley has the safest
pair of hands he’s seen.
r * * *
Hawaiian Milton Ross (10. If),
having come all the way from
Honolulu to fight Bert Hornby
(10.5|) at Leichhardt, missed that
far-sought target so much and
oft that when ref. Art Mawson
gave it to Hornby on points devil
a hoot disturbed the circumam-
bient opacity.


means
Every £1 of interest earned on Commonwealth
Securities is subject to an Income Tax Rebate of 2/-.
This means that one pound in every ten of Loan
interest is credited back to you when you complete
your Taxation Return,
The table below shows how this valuable concession
applies to taxpayers in different income groups and
receiving various amounts of Commonwealth Bond
interest (for the sake of illustration, the taxpayer in
each case is assumed to have a dependent wife and
two children); —
Looking at it in another way, the next table shows
that, as a consequence of this rebate, a given rate of
interest on Commonwealth Bonds is worth just as
much, in terms of net income, as an appreciably
higher rate of interest on other types of investments.
The higher the rates of tax payable, the more valuable
the rebate becomes.
In addition to the Income Tax Rebate, Commonwealth
Loan investors enjoy two other unique advantages.
Their investment is secured against the whole assets of
the Commonwealth and repayment in full at maturity
of the face value of their holdings is absolutely certain.
In the same way, the Commonwealth unconditionally
guarantees payment of their interest on fixed dates at
a fixed, unvarying rate for the full duration of their
investment. There is no better place for your savings
than in the Commonwealth 19th Security Loan.
Lodge your application now.
Invest NOW in the
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
1. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
m
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on October 15,
1967, or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
37.
per annum, issued at
£9B/10/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15, 1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 27-
in each £1 of interest is allowed
for the period during which no
Income Tax is levied under the
law of a State. This rebate in-
creases the effective interest yield
(considerably so in the case of
those subject to the higher rates
of Income Tax).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the
longer term issue is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Those
who already own £lOO of Inscribed
Stock may increase their holdings
by multiples of £lO. For the short-
term issue the minimum subscrip-
tion is £l,OOO, with higher amounts
in multiples of £l,OOO, of Bonds
or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted,
with the balance in either one or
three amounts by June 30, 1954.
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS, MONEY
ORDER POST OFFICES OR
STOCKBROKERS will receive appli-
cations for cash subscriptions.
You have only to fill in one simple
form and lodge a cheque or cash.
Authorised
y the Commonwealth Treasury
h
SERVICE
DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “Rum and Water”
containing the lines:
While Old Noah in the Deluge in the
Ark was taking refuge;
And King Pharaoh’s mighty army did they
drink and all go barmy.
—5732.
Man, wife and two young children,
Sydney, urgently require accommoda-
tion, furnished flat or cottage, any-
where congenial.—s 733.
Words of verses which conclude
with the lines:
Make faint with too much sweet
Those heavy winged thieves.
—5731.
Information Sought
(ft Who* was the ‘‘Roman de la
Rose- ? (2) Who was its author?
(j) Who was responsible for the
English version ?
(1) and (2) A French allegorical
poem written in the 13th century,
descriptive of the love philosophy of
the troubadors. The first part was by
Guillaume de Lorris, and the latter
and more extensive part by Jean de
Meung. (3) Chaucer translated it
into English, but our version is
generally admitted to be by another
hand. There is a modern English
version by F. S. Ellis.
* * * *
The house into which 1 have just
moved is named Caerleon. Whence
comes the name?
Caerleon is an ancient Welsh town
known to Arthurian legend. King
Arthur is said to have spent five
Christmases in Caerleon, and it was,
with Camelot, one of the places
where he and his knights gathered. It
is mentioned in Tennyson’s famous
Idylls of the King :—
For Arthur on the Whitsuntide before
Held court at old Caerleon upon Usk.
Caerleon is in Monmouthshire, on the
borders of modern Wales, three miles
from the county borough of New-
port. Its present-day population is
around 3000-4000. In Roman times
it was the site of what is considered
to have been the largest Roman
amphitheatre in the U.K., with an
arena of about 20,000 sq. ft. The
fortress, known as Isca Silurum,
covered 50 acres. In excavations in
1939 quite a few Roman gold coins
were found. Caerleon was the base
for the Roman conquest of Wales
(a.d. 75). After the Romans left,
the history of the place is uncertain
and legendary. It is reputed to have
been the seat of a Christian bishopric
in the 4th century, but this is
unproven and improbable. Most of
the traditions of the place (such as its
linking with the tales of Arthur)
derive from Geoffrey of Monmouth
(c. 1130-40), and cannot be taken as
authentic history. The ruins of
Caerleon attracted notice in the 12th
and subsequent centuries, and gave
plain cause for legend-making.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding the
Marshall gift to the National Art
Gallery of New South Wales ?
On November 21, 1929, Mrs.
Thomas Marshall gave by deed an
improved block of land in Redfern
(Sydney) to the Trustees of the
National Art Gallery of New South
Wales as a gift to perpetuate the
memory of Mr. Marshall and her-
self. The major part of the income
from the houses were to be used
for the purchase of painting or
drawings. A committee consisting of
the president of trustees, three mem-
bers from the Royal Art Society
(including the president) and one
member from the Society of Artists
was to recommend to the trustees
works for purchase. The first work
purchased was “The Glass Bottle,”
by Bernard Hall, in 1931; since then
32 oil-pointings, 18 watercolors and
one print have been purchased.
Brief Answers
A.E.W.: The French liner Nor-
mandie was owned by the Compagnie
Generale Transatlantique, whose
Sydney agents are Burns, Philp and
Co., Ltd. Its fate is not known here.
Burns, Philp state that any informa-
tion on the ship can be obtained by
writing to the owners, French Line,
Compagnie Generale Transatlantique,
La Maison Frangaise, 610 Fifth-
avenue, New York 20, N.Y
R.H.W.: The first white child born
in Australia of free parents was
James Thomas, son of Samuel and
Ann Thomas. Samuel Thomas was
a marine. The child was baptised
by Rev. R. Johnson on February 3,
1788... .P.F.; Harold Mercer’s own
obituary notice, “With Self-clipped
Wings,” appeared in The Bulletin
of June 25, 1952....J.G.: The first
Australian-built Canberra jet-bomber
made its first flight on May 30, 1953,
at the Avalon testfield near Geelong
(Vic.) A.V.: Mineral-production
in South Australia in 1951 was worth
£5,457,665 and in 1952 £6,046,967.
■ L S.: Chattanooga is the capital
of Hamilton county, Tennessee
(U.S.A.), and is situated on the
lennessee River. It is an important
commercial and rail centre, with a
population approaching 140,000....


CUT OUT WRESTLING WITH
44-GALLON DRUMS
II
ss m
Save yourself back-breaking
work and needless waste of
costly fuel.
FIT A
MALCO
<1 ALI-METAI
UTILITY PUMP
(Non-Syphoning)
for PETROL, FUEL OIL or KEROSENE
The Malco Pump way is the
easiest, most economical way of
distributing bulk fuel. It gives
you a smooth, steady, splashless
flow of several gallons per minute.
Malco Pumps are built to last for
years of hard work on stations,
farms, garages
and in industry
in general.
h
... Also this PUMP
for LUBRICATING OIL *
This Malco Oil Pump will solve your drip
wastage problem. It is fitted with a
patented non-drip nozzle, constructed for
rapid and easy filling of bottles. No costly
waste drips! Malco Pumps are made of
ferrous metal, with handles of malleable
iron that won’t break. All parts accurately
machined to gauges and interchangeable.
The cylinder and head are screwed for
perfect fitting. Replacement parts always
available and the whole assembled to
prevent syphoning. Available at all
superior distributors.
MANUFACTURED BY:
MALLEABLE CASTINGS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Rich Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
A subsidiary of MALCO INDUSTRIES LIMITED
J
h
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
range
fit ii'lf Ladies'
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
w are priced from
only £14/15/-. A
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £12/15/-.
★ Every LAVINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and a
jj. jewel led movement.
LAVINA J
WATCHES I
4L im 4 ‘ttMttu Jj
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AMERICAN AIR-POWER
The following condensation of
a “U.S. News and World Report ’
interview with Gener a 1
Nathan F. Twining, Chief-of-
Staff, U.S. Air Force, emphati-
cally underlines the lately-
announced U.S. policy of build-
ing its air-forces into a “massive
retaliatory weapon” capable of
deterring any potential aggressor.
* * *
“I think that the airplane, par-
ticularly since the advent of new
weapons of incredible power, has
definitely revolutionised warfare.
I don’t think this fact is recog-
nised anywhere. It’s a question
of time and education. First of
all you have great mobility in a
flying unit —you can base it one
place, protect it and strike from
there over long distances.
Another factor is the dependence
of major surface operations on
control of the air.
“Control of the air is both
offensive and defensive, but
offensive capability is the
important thing—important in
preventing wars as well as in
winning them. For instance, the
Strategic Air Command and its
big bombs, plus what our other
forces can do with new weapons,
provides a powerful counter-
threat against aggression. No
aggressor is likely to move out
against the possessor of such a
deterrent force until he feels that
he has a better one and can hit
quicker and harder than we can.
• * v
“The strategy of ground war-
fare has been affected so that no
ground army can move effectively
in the field without the assist-
ance of air-forces. Control of
the air is necessary. And to get
control of the air takes a lot of
air-fighting. You get that air-
superiority in two ways: by your
ov/n fighters going out and meet-
jn g jfi e enemy in air-to-air
combat and, more effectively, by
the bomber force going in to
knock out the opponent’s bases
and sources of supply. That’s
the most effective use of air-
power in the initial stages of a
war.
“Thus the first steps in any
war would be the battle for the
destruction of the enemy’s bases
and the destruction of the enemy
in the air. The destruction of his
sources of production is a longer-
range programme, but with
modern weapons that stage
might be reached very quickly,
“The development of air-
power has made ground forces
much less effective, but we cer-
tainly must have them. The
notion that the Air Force doesn't
believe in ground forces is far
from the truth. The point is that,
once you get control of the air,
Army can operate and be
supplied without interruption.
* * *
“Regarding defence against
air-attack, our enemy would have
some installations underground,
but I don’t think they will be
able to put enough underground
to help them much. The cost
of putting just a few installations
underground is tremendous.
Even when that is done it is still
necessary to transport everything
above ground.
* ♦ •
“We must have forward bases
and have them widely dispersed
for several reasons. We want to
be able to make frequent trips
into enemy territory, and that
would be more difficult and take
longer if we had to operate only
from America. Such bases would
also enable us to hit the enemy
quickly and with a large number
of planes and from several direc-
tions at the same time. All our
attacks would be co-ordinated to
saturate and confuse the
defences, which is vitally
important. Also we must assume
that the enemy would strike first,
and, therefore, the dispersion of
our bases makes it less likely that
all weather conditions. There’s
no question but that we can hit
within a reasonable distance of
the target irrespective of height.
American crews are currently
flying practice missions every
day and dropping bombs on
targets from 40,000 ft. and higher.
They do it at night and in bad
weather. We score the accuracy
of each of these missions and it
is going up constantly.
“In World War II we some-
times had to go back to a target
four or five times before we
knocked it out. I don’t think
we’ll have to go back a second
time to knock out a target now.”
“New York Times”
BASES WHICH ARE USED OR MAY BE USED BY THE U.S. AIR FORCE
he could cripple us in a first
attack.
“One of our difficulties in
World War IX was that the
minute we took off from a base
we were in a bomber-stream.
The big formations were in the
air and headed in a certain direc-
tion, so the enemy was all set for
them. What we visualise now is
a somewhat different form of
attack —not in so large a mass.
* * *
“Eventually we will have a
large number of pilotless planes,
but it is a matter of years. They
will cause some changes in
strategy, but only to a degree.
They are very expensive weapons
and there must be great improve-
ments in their accuracy and
control, but they are hard to
stop. The pilotless plane goes
right in and is destroyed ; the
ultimate is the V-2 type, with a
range of thousands of miles.
There are, of course, counter-
measures to these pilotless planes,
but you can’t stop all of them.
* * *
“The Russians are working
very hard on both defence and
offence. They have some top-
notch scientists, but I should say
that our offensive power is ahead
of theirs by a pretty good margin
at the moment. Qualitatively,
that is—quantity alone is not
enough. In the type of opera-
tion we expect, quality is most
important. You must have the
best equipment and the highest
degree of readiness, plus the
highest degree of ability to
use the equipment. We have
had the most experience, but the
Soviets are working at it. The
Russians had no long-range
experience in war-time, but we
do know that they are not back-
ward. If they want to do some-
thing, and they have their ideas
crystallised, they seem willing to
make almost any sacrifice to
achieve it.
“1 think the Russians have
good pilots, but, right now, not
so good as ours.
“If the Russians marched
across Europe—if war should
come —and we started our air
offensive, got it going immedi-
ately against their ability to
attack this country, and against
their war industry, I don’t think
their army could be effectively
maintained for very long. In
addition, their armies would be
subjected to direct aerial attack
by tactical air-forces, which can
also be very effective.
* * * *
“Altitude now has little effect
on our bombing accuracy. Our
aiming methods are much
improved for all altitudes and
Holland and E.D.C.
The American Press has drawn
a good deal of satisfaction from
the fact that the Dutch were
the first to ratify the six-nation
European Defence Community
Treaty—by 36 to four in the
Upper House and by 75 to 11 in
the Lower. If, it is reasoned,
the hard-headed Hollanders see
fit to throw in with E.D.C., it
sets a pretty good example for
the other countries (actually,
Germany had previously as good
as ratified, and has now finally
done so). Typical editorial
comment:
“New York Times”: “The
Netherlands is to be congratu-
lated on having become the first
country to complete an unchal-
lengeable Parliamentary ratifica-
tion of the E.D.C., on which
hinges not only the creation of
adequate Western defence, but


Nature's guarded
secrets
Is there ANY explanation
when after five years —an
empty lake refills and fish im-
mediately return? . . . when a
rider is lost in a flood at night
—and his mare finds the way
home? . . . when a giant rattle-
snake slithers onto a baby’s
lap—and doesn’t strike?
March Reader’s Digest brings
you fascinating eyewitness re-
ports from a man who spent
50 years studying the inscrut-
able ways of the wild.
Thirty-one other stimulating
articles from world’s leading
magazines and current books
in March Reader’s Digest in-
clude “I led the attack on Pearl
Harbor,” “Don’t let mental
illness scare you,” and vivid 16-
page book condensation, “The
Great Iron Ship.” 1/6 at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
For easier,
quicker,
shaving!
Gillette
DO ©a* DISPENSER
hh
*
s
i
■
S
s
nP
SCBCK
I
36
! :
A new blade
in a flash!
z"'
a
2
and... a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
and it costs you nothing extra
».. you pay only for ihe blades!
SEE!
NEW 10-Blade
DISPENSER ... 4'B
10 Blade PACKET ... 3/9
5 Blade PACKET ... 1/1
20 Blade DISPENSER .. 7/6
bl ue
Gillette
AO?
'GOOD MORNINGS' BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
also all further progress toward
European unification.”
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“The people of the Netherlands
are under no illusions about the
difficulty of forming a multi-
nation military force nor the
sacrifices which are entailed.
But they have refused to be
deterred by these obstacles and
have steadily viewed the great
goal which is to be obtained by
a unified defence of the free
nations of Europe. The sober,
practical weighing of the risks
involved in action or inaction;
the resolute pursuit of a policy
agreed upon; the willingness to
take a decisive step without prod-
ding or waiting for others to lead
—all of these reflect great credit
upon the Dutch and their legis-
lators.”
“ Washington Post”: “The
Dutch have suffered greatly at
the hands of German militarism ;
but they also understand as a
practical matter that the re-
creation of German units in a
European Army is preferable to
any of the alternatives.
“Holland thus has grasped the
real meaning of E.D.C.: it
provides a way to weld Germany
into Europe. A recrudescent
Germany is an accomplished
fact; and if it is not integrated
with Western Europe it will go its
own way. The opportunity to
Europeanise Germany is fast
running out. It is in the logic of
this realisation that one may
hope the Dutch example will stir
France, Italy, Luxembourg and
the Upper House of the Belgian
Parliament to follow suit.”
The Gnat
The controversy in Britain
over the Gnat, a small jet-fighter
expected to make its first flights
in a few months, should be of
interest to Australian authorities
wrestling with the almost
astronomical costs of modern
jet-fighters.
The Gnat is described by
London “Economist” as a light
fighter, “about the same size and
weight as the Spitfire, and a great
deal smaller, lighter, cheaper—■
and faster —than the modern jet-
interceptor, though less elabor-
ately instrumented and more
lightly armed.”
Many defence authorities
predict that a fighter of this
kind will have to go into produc-
tion soon, not because of any
technical superiority to heavier
types (though it is certainly not
inferior), but because it is so
much cheaper and easier to build
and easier to operate. It is a
case of expediency against
perfectionism.
The Gnat’s importance stems
largely from some disadvantages
of the larger jet-fighters: few
Nato countries can afford to buy
sufficient modern jet-fighters for
adequate defence (American
dollars will pay for the Hunters
and Mysteres on order for Nato),
and the building of them is such
a drain on a country’s manpower
and machines that they cannot be
turned out in quantity, no matter
who foots the bill.
Further, the size, weight and
landing-speed of modern jet-
fighters could preclude them
from using the kind of emergency
strips which might be necessary
if Europe became a battlefield.
Those arguments apply even
more forcibly to Commonwealth
countries which have to get along
without American aid.
The modern jet-fighter weighs
about 16,0001 b. and costs
£70,000; the Gnat should cost
about £25,000 and weigh
60001 b. fully laden; its making
requires only about one-fifth of
the man-hours needed to produce
the bigger fighter.
It would appear, then, that it
is the season for Gnats, but,
unfortunately, “the design has
been put forward at a time when
the British Defence Budget is big
enough to provide for substantial
re-equipment of the R.A.F. with
Swifts and Hunters—the only
Nato country able to afford
this —but not big enough to
provide a margin for the develop-
ment of any additional fighter
types such as the Gnat.”
It is difficult, the “Economist”
adds, to refute the Air Ministry’s
reasons for rejecting the light
fighter in principle and the Gnat
in particular:
“In the Swift and. the Hunter
the R.A.F. has on order and
under construction as many day-
fighters as it is likely to need,
and by comparison with these
fighters the Gnat carries fewer
guns, has a smaller number of
radio-channels, and is generally
less fully instrumented. And
because the Air Ministry has no
immediate use for the Gnat, the
Ministry of Supply, the depart-
ment that would normally finance
its development and handle the
production orders, has steadily
refused to give the project
support.
“But that is far from being the
end of the story. The air experts
admit that the Gnat, while under-
instrumented, has all the
essentials of a modern high-speed
fighter: radar ranging, VHF
radio, armor, ejection-seat and
30mm. cannon. It was designed
by W. E. Fetter, who was respon-
sible for the astonishingly
manoeuvrable Canberra, and its
prospective performance has
never been questioned. The
R.A.F. also concedes that unless
a machine like the Gnat goes
into production other Nato
countries will never afford an
adequate number of supersonic
fighters,”
The Ministry of Supply is
therefore being urged to order
a small number of Gnats as
“research” aircraft so that their
performance can be put through
proper Service testing,
ITie situation is somewhat
further complicated by the
interest of other parties in the
Gnat: the Navy is studying it as
a basis for a Navy fighter; the
Army is interested in its possi-
bilities for ground-support of
troops; the Gnat itself could
easily meet the light-fighter
requirements lately drawn up and
published by Nato Supreme
Headquarters at Fontainbleu;
and a team of American experts
with 40 million dollars to spend
on “special weapons” under the
Mutual Security Act has also
been studying the Gnat.
Folland Aircraft, Ltd., which
is building the Gnat and financ-
ing the project out of its own
funds, has its major problem in
getting a jet engine to meet the
Gnat’s exacting requirements—
something around 8001 b, and
giving a thrust of 40001 b. to
60001 b. With such a heart in it
the aircraft could easily beat the
speed of sound in level flight and
over a wide range of altitudes.
No British fighter has yet
attained that performance.
Folland has interested the
Bristol people, who are now
developing a small engine, the
Orpheus, to Folland’s specifica-
tions, and it is possible that the
engine might get the Government
support withheld from the Gnat
because there are several other
uses which could be made of
such an engine.
On that basis Folland has cal-
culated that it could produce 50
Gnats a month by 1956 for
£25,000 each, fully equipped.
“Folland Aircraft,” concludes
the “Economist,” “is doing some-
thing which has become pretty
rare in the aircraft industry. It
is developing, without any assist-
ance from the Government, a
combat aircraft in which it has
faith —much as the De Havilland
company years ago had unsup-
ported faith in the Mosquito. If
the company can secure an initial
production order from either the
British or American Govern-
ments, then it can be certain of
an almost inexhaustible market
among the less prosperous Euro-
pean countries and in the Com-
monwealth where defence costs
are a major concern.”
Dragnet Digest
Japan and Lancashire. —The
new trade agreement by which
Japan is permitted to sell more
to the sterling group naturally
evoked some strenuous protests
from Lancashire. They are
answered in part by a London
“Spectator” correspondent: “In
a quiet way we are selling a lot
to Japan, much of it in industries
which export a key commodity,
craftsmanship: cars, machine-
tools, aircraft and electronic
equipment, as well as insurance
and shipping, are ready
examples. If we do not buy
something of what Japan has to
sell, those of our industries which
are virile and expanding today
will be deprived of their oppor-
tunity to deliver the Comets and
television-stations and Austins
and Hillmans which Japan is
anxious to take from us. Is the
whole nation to lose these
exports in order to maintain
Lancashire in the style to which
it has been accustomed?”
* * * *
German Housing. As one
measure of German recovery,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” points
out that, “in the war Germany
lost 2\ million houses, or about
one-fifth of the total. A further
million were badly damaged.
Since 1948 Germany has built
more than 1,400,000 houses. In
the last year a new house has
become ready for occupation
almost every minute.”
* * * *
Vodka on the House.—Re-
porting on the new sugar-and-
honey tactics of the Soviet in
non - Communist countries,
“New York Times” observes
that “instead of the dour atti-
tudes so common under Stalin,
Soviet diplomats are now be-
coming cheery fellows who
give brandy and caviare away
liberally as Christmas presents,
who arrange for Soviet violinists
or folk-dancers —as one may
desire —to come show their skill,
and who will help eagerly to
arrange Soviet trade with non-
Communist countries. The
effect has been what Moscow
hoped for, and these tactics have
succeeded in making friends and
influencing people in countries
as diverse as France, Greece and
India, to mention but a few.”
* * * *
Show, or Else. —Some of the
funds for China’s five-year-plan
are to be raised by forced loan,
of which the “People’s Daily”
(Peking) remarks: “The capital
funds needed for economic con-
struction are so large that these
must be amassed from all
sources. Apart from the re-
sources of State-operated enter-
prises and of various taxes, the
people throughout the entire
country must be mobilised to
subscribe a portion of their sur-
plus assets and possibly their
savings so as to support the State
construction programme. This
will also show their political
loyalty.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Community Centres
Judge W. Scales, of the Adelaide
Juvenile Court, lately ga,ve South Aus-
tralians a few facts on child delinquency.
Forty-five per cent, of juvenile offenders
were living with one or neither parent.
Thirty years ago there were 65 divorces
a year in S.A. compared with 800 now.
It has been found that 60 per cent, of
children who appeared before the court
were living in surroundings which con-
tributed to their delinquency.
The judge urged people considering
divorce to consult the marriage-guidance
centre, which could give valuable advice
on how to safeguard the future of
children after homes were broken up.
He added that 70 per cent, of lawbreakers
committed only one offence. The other
30 per cent, were the real problem.
No one here has yet advocated “hot-
rod” clubs as the answer to the prob-
lem, but Adelaide’s community-centres
are here to stay.
Typical is the Maugham Church Com-
munity Centre in the heart of the city.
Here every Friday night a choice of 14
activities, including gymnasium, table-
tennis, darts, etc., can be made. The idea
that young people will not take part in
anything connected with a church is
gradually disappearing. Youths who
would otherwise be roaming the streets
at a loose end can be seen enjoying
themselves, and glad to be part of some-
thing which gives an outlet for their
energy and creative capacity.
Such activities as basket-weaving,
leather-work, cake-icing, dramatic art,
dressmaking and ticket-writing, all under
expert guidance, have attracted people
from all walks of life. In some instances
whole families come, each taking part In
something that interests him or her. The
centre caters for the lonely, for those
who cannot bear to be idle and for
those who want friendship.
A Braille-writing class now has 12
members. The books transcribed have
considerably eased the serious shortage
of text-books for blind scholars and
teachers in S.A, A Braille typewriter,
bought from the National Institute for
the Blind, London, has speeded-up the
class’s output.
The climax of the evening’s activities
comes when all people belonging to the
centre file into the church proper for a
short devotional service. The importance
of working together as a family is
“Oh, I like the country. But it's a real come-down for Jeeves."
stressed, and the idea of corporate living
» both in and outside the centre is talked
about. One feels indeed that the com-
munity-centre is a big family.
You can see a person with a Braille
frame sitting next to one with a half-
finished basket and someone else with a
vase made in the pottery-class. The
young chap handing out the hymn-books
at the door would perhaps not be inside
the church at all if it were not for the
community-centre.
Adelaide’s community-centres are mak-
ing a valuable contribution to the prob-
lem of child delinquency and to good
citizenship generally. — M. G. Colwell
(S.A.). __
Sydney’s Traffic
There are only two solutions to Syd-
ney’s traffic cbngestion —enlarge the
streets, or divert the traffic from the
city. And, as widening the streets would
be impossibly costly, the only remedy is
to keep the traffic out.
Restrictive acts are a negative
approach, so what must be removed is
the need for so much traffic to go into
the city.
There is much in Sydney that would
be as well situated in some of the closer
suburbs. Many Government offices, for
instance, could function equally well at,
say. Gore Hill or Burwood. The re-
moval of Repat. from Randwick to the
Grace building in York-street was a bad
move ; it brings many hundreds of people
into the city daily. An honorary medico
tells me he could get from the Prince
Alfred Hospital to Randwick, park his
car and be on the job quicker than he
can get from the same hospital to the
job at the Grace building.
Head-offices of banks and similar
houses could easily be moved without
causing much of an upset in their busi-
ness. The big retail stores, of course,
would have to remain—the public needs
a centralised shopping-area—but the
wholesale houses would be better placed
out of the heart of the city.
Here, too, cost is a big objection, but
any scheme to relieve the city’s traffic
is going to be costly. And the longer it
is postponed the more costly it wifi be-
come. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Is No Taxes the Answer?
Apart from Constitutional con-
siderations, which may have been
settled already under the “zonal
allowances” plan, there are several aspects
of the new proposals for a tax-free
northern Australia which demand imme-
diate non-party discussion and decision.
They can well be regarded as non-party,
in the smaller sense, because there must
be far fewer than 100,000 voters in all
north of the tropic (including those in
the N.T. who have a non-voting mem-
ber), but they raise issues of major
national importance. They mean that
Governments and people of Australia
must consider the moral and physical
impact of those 1200 million pairs
of land-hungry Asian eyes looking south-
ward which the Governor-General men-
tioned the other day, and that attention
must be given now to one possible means
of attracting white workers and their
families and adequate overseas finance
into the nearly-empty north, despite the
claims of developmental projects in the
politically-powerful south.
There is no nonsense about these latest
tax suggestions. It’s admitted that they
arise primarily from self-interest, and
that remission of all tax would give a
lot of cash to residents and non-residents
with interests in the north. They would
cover a sufficiently long term to be really
attractive (20 years has been suggested),
and they would apply to non-residents
to induce a flow of outside capital, both
from abroad and from the south of
Australia. Business, it is proposed, should
have 60 per cent, of its northern income
free of tax, and the whole of it free if the
40 per cent, balance is reinvested in the
area. This is a far more attractive propo-
sition than the past and existing conces-
sions in the Northern Territory, and its
supporters claim that a trial (which is a
trifle inconsistent with the “long-term”
argument) would cost the Commonwealth
“Cheer up — WE might travel in one like that some day."
only £2 million a year at most, a small
figure compared with the ultimate
benefits.
It would, of course, amount to a con-
cealed subsidy to industries in the
favored area, but it is significant that the
Payne-Fletcher report of 1937 on
northern Australia was opposed to direct
subsidies, as representing spoon-feeding,
which is thereafter sought everlastingly.
The report added : “Encouragement can
best be given by the elimination of those
Government charges which no Govern-
ment has a right to exact from a pioneer-
ing community.”
Such a concession, of course, would
need to be only part of the story. There
would remain the outstanding needs for
public expenditure on transport and
water-supplies, for port-development and
for improved stock-routes. But the north
to-day has arguments which it did not
possess a few years ago. Its vulnerability
vis-a-vis Asia furnishes a political argu-
ment on defence to “Labor” which per-
haps sounds better than it really is, and its
still unestimated reserves of oil, uranium
and iron ore are, although wasting assets,
resources which must be both exploited
and protected. In brief, we want money
and men in the north, and this seems to
be one way of getting them. Let’s try
it. —In the ACT (A.C.T.).
Cost of Bureaucracy
The Commonwealth Public Service
Board report that Commonwealth pub-
lic servants’ salaries cost the taxpayer
£8,600,000 more in 1952-53 than in
1951-52 is a good indication of the
irresistible growth of bureaucracy.
' And, remember, that increase—prob-
ably much greater in State spheres—
took place while free enterprise was
being curtailed compulsorily by import
restrictions, sales tax, price-fixing and
other artificial means.
The march of the bureaucrats, unre-
stricted since the war, must be halted if
Australia is to progress as rapidly as it
should. Unfortunately, there is a tend-
ency for all Governments, irrespective of
party, to cling to powers, even though
they opposed those same powers while
in Opposition.
The numbers of useless and unproduc-
tive State and Federal activities are legion
—the average taxpayer does not realise
how much he is paying for them. All
admit that income tax is too high, but
how many are aware that a big percent-
age of their ordinary daily purchases
carry high taxes as well?
Most know that beer, spirits and
cigarettes carry substantial indirect taxa-
tion, but the buyer of a watch, a film, a
gallon of petrol or even a box of matches
is also contributing a substantial percent-
age of the purchase-price to consolidated
revenue.
Nor is that all. Socialist utilities such
as trams and buses, railways, post-office
and electricity undertakings underwrite
their losses and high costs by passing on
every increase, necessary or unnecessary,
to the public.
Free enterprise, if it thought like that,
would not survive. Business looks to its
own internal costing rather than to its
customers, and, moreover, business pays
taxes, which Socialist shows don’t.
The sooner Governments of all parties
realise that Socialism is an expensive relic
of the labor troubles of 50 years ago and
scrap both the principle and its minions
the sooner Australia will progress in
keeping with its natural energy, enter-
prise and rich primary resources.
Sooner or later “Labor” will realise
that and abandon its outmoded Socialist
principles for the much more healthy
objective of assuring all Australians a
much-higher standard of living.
The Liberal and Country parties, too,
who have made a disappointing job of
reducing the Commonwealth public ser-
vice—as they promised to do in 1949 and
1951 —will have to play their part in
cutting back the terrific burden of
bureaucracy Australia has been carrying
since the war.
After all, the Japanese possess the
priceless stimulation of free enterprise,
against which our poor, bolstered-up,
half-Socialist economy is expected to
make the progress essential to our sur-
vival. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Housing Vested Interests
If, as a Canberra note has stated, Gov-
ernment parties in Canberra are planning
“a new national housing scheme” whereby
the Commonwealth will provide finance
for private home-builders through the
banks, or building-societies, or both, it’s
to be hoped some means can be found
to keep the multitude of housing
authorities from getting their interfering
hands on it.
In all the talk about the high cost of
housing nobody so far has attempted to
mark clearly what burden a new house
(whether State- or privately-built) carries
for the payment of all the authorities,
inspectors, planners, clerks, typists and
controllers pinned to it. In a country
which seems to have a passion for
statistics and conclusions based on them
—we even profess to know how many
girls will get married next year— this
would be strange if it weren’t for the
suspicion that the authorities don’t want
it known.
Under the present Commonwealth-
States Housing Agreement the States get
money for housing and have many years
in which to pay it back. But if a State
sells such a house to the tenant the State
must immediately repay the Common-
wealth the purchase-price. Since it is
obviously more expedient to let the debt
ride for years, tenants of State-built
houses find the way hard when they want
to buy.
The States generally have created a
vast vested interest for preserving State-
control of building in their herds of Hous-
ing Commission officials and lesser
employees. If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment really means to make finance
for private home-builders available and
relatively simple to obtain, then it should
do everything it can to break down the
power of this vested interest and the
equally powerful interest of building
unions who insist on day-labor and a so-
called 40-hour week.
In short, a simplified form of financing
home-building will be no help whatever
unless home-seekers and builders can get
free of hampering and costly intruders.
S. (N.S.W.).


Floods
There are demands in Brisbane for
concerted action towards minimising
floods and their damage. That’s very
necessary, but it’s a large order. It calls
for a lot of scientifically-planned public
works and for much more well-directed
co-operation between Governments and
people, chiefly men-on-the-land, than
appears possible.
To control floods we must have hun-
dreds of square miles of reafforestation,
hundreds of miles of contour ditches,
thousands of barriers across small streams
and scores of dams on the upper reaches
of our rivers. On the lower reaches
drainage-ditches and levees with canals
are needed to run the waters off.
There’s a third of a continent to be
treated, and here we are, in the most
prosperous period of our existence,
messing about with social-benefit schemes
that encourage hotting, instead of getting
to work to make the country safe and
prosperous. Snowy and Murray schemes?
Fair enough, but the Burdekin, Fitzroy,
Richmond and Clarence flood thrice as
often and three times as badly.
A lot of our farmers are taking a real
interest in soil-conservation, and that
will help a great deal; but a lot more are
waiting for State aid or a kick in the
pants.
It’s about time we realised that the
doctrines of “let the Government do it”
and “milk the Government” are eco-
nomically incompatible. This country
needs conservation more than any other,
and it is a tricky country to handle. The
C.5.1.R.0, and the Agricultural Depart-
ments are doing a great deal, but we
need a lot more co-operation by indi-
viduals, as well as guidance, compulsion
and public works by Governments. —
T. K. 11l (Q.).
Tasmania’s Tourists
Thirteen thousand fewer tourists than
usual came to Tasmania in 1952, accord-
ing to a Tourist Department report. It
meant a loss to the department of £5OOO,
and the excuse advanced is that ocean
cruises have beguiled away that many of
the Speck’s annual visitors.
Even if they have, that excuse over-
looks Premier Cosgrove’s five-day shop-
ping week, which has raised prices and
reduced amenities while turning the once-
cheerful little cities of Hobart and Laun-
ceston into morgues. At weekends there
is nothing to do, nowhere to go ; even
to get a meal, outside a hotel, is difficult,
and it’s expensive. In smaller towns it is
usually impossible.
Hotels are not all good, but they are
all expensive, as this island’s c.-0.-l. is
the highest in Australia. If a tourist falls
sick he finds that many doctors don’t
work on Saturday or Sunday and the
chemists don’t open. So the patient waits
till Monday.
Is it any wonder that even “poor
sailors” prefer ocean cruising? There
holiday-makers are treated the same on
every day of the week, and are as well-
fed and -cared for on Saturday and Sun-
day as on any other day.—E. and O.E.
(Tas.).
Malaya
The war against Malaya’s terrorists is
not yet won, but great progress has been
made in the past year. This is reflected
in the large number of high-ranking
Communists killed and captured, or who
have surrendered recently. Formerly,
these kept well out of danger. Once-
formidable bands have been reduced to
small groups. Every effort is made to
keep the bandits disorganised and on the
move until they can be eliminated.
Incidents are restricted to attacks on
lonely planters and isolated workers,
murder of informers and efforts to obtain
better arms. Ammunition appears to be
in very short supply with the terrorists,
and there is no evidence of any substan-
tial help from outside. Private cars,
particularly if they do not travel alone,
are seldom molested, but some roads can
only be travelled with an armored-car
escort. The main railway along the west
coast is used without restriction, but the
other trunk-line, through the centre to
Kota Bharu, can be used only by day.
Psychological warfare is having its
effect. Propaganda and messages are dis-
seminated through newspapers, radio,
loud-speakers on aircraft and the drop-
ping of leaflets. The terrorist knows that
if captured he can be sure of the death-
penalty. The knowledge that he can sur-
render and rejoin the community a free
man if he has not committed murder is
producing many defections.
A reward is paid to any leader who per-
suades his men to surrender with him.
Good rewards are paid for information,
and the anonymity of the informer is
preserved. There is a growing confidence
in the ability of the authorities to protect
people who give information and a grow-
ing realisation, as the country progresses
towards self-government, that it is not
just a struggle between the authorities
and the terrorists, but one which concerns
every member of the community.
The most successful move against the
terrorists has been the blocking of their
food-supplies. It is practically impossible
to live off the jungle. Lack of food
compels the terrorist to leave compara-
tive safety and makes him vulnerable.
Nothing grows in the sunless jungle.
Helicopters and Austers keep constant
watch for clearings that may denote
attempts by terrorists to grow food. As
soon as it is confirmed that a camp exists
in the vicinity the area is bombed and
strafed, operations in which R.A.A.F.
No. 1 Squadron takes its full share.
Security forces wait outside the area
to deal with any terrorists who may try
to escape and then go in to clean-up.
Troops are often landed in the clearings
by helicopter, and techniques are being
developed for dropping paratroops into
the jungle. Unlike most places in the
East, where usually the small farmer lives
in a village and goes out each day to his
land, the Malayan often lives in an
isolated house on his farm and is easily
intimidated by the terrorist into supply-
ing food. As far as possible these farmers
and squatters are being moved into new
villages, often behind barbed-wire, where
protection can more easily be given.
Sales of food are most rigidly controlled
in bad areas.
One of the greatest deterrents to acts of
terrorism is the knowledge that any inci-
dent will bring swift retribution. There
are now enough security forces to permit
that. Besides British forces there are
the Gurkhas, who are most feared, and
the Fijians, who are more at home in the
jungle than the terrorists and are main-
taining their high reputation as fighters.
The I bans from Sarawak, who rival the
Australian aboriginal in tracking-ability,
make pursuit through the jungle rela-
tively easy. Regular Malayan regiments
have been raised, and home guards, con-
sisting of reliable Malayans who have
been armed and given elementary military
training, provide protection at village-
level and give cover to isolated workers.
Most of the terrorists and their sym-
pathisers are Chinese. If there is an
external threat the position in Malaya
will deteriorate seriously. If not, Malaya
can look forward with confidence to the
elimination of the Communist pest by the
end of 1954. —Gui (Vic.),
“Light and Liberty”
Thus is inscribed the banner of Britain’s
Electrical Trades Union, which, after
20 years of close attention, is now com-
pletely under Communist influence. The
union executive’s high-handed methods
in striving to enforce guerrilla strikes and
to produce a maximum amount of dislo-
“What times the next ferry?”
cation to British industry have attracted
much attention.
The wide publicity given to the union’s
activities and general background can
hardly have left anyone, member or out-
sider, in doubt as to the methods of
Communist infiltration. All the follow-
ing facts are taken from the national
Press.
Communist domination dates back to
the early ’thirties, when it was about
the same degree as in other unions. It
heightened during the war and became
“respectable” after the entry of Russia.
Even then a need was expressed to ban
Communists from holding office, but
the resolution was never passed—it was,
in fact, withdrawn by the executive
council.
Some notable acts: —In 1949 the
E.T.U. gave £2500 to Labor’s general-
election fund, and, two years later, added
£10,000; in 1950, persuaded the T.U.C.
to abandon wage-restraint; in 1951,
altered its rules so that the executive
council would have power to authorise
a strike when, in their opinion, action
was necessary to support union policy.
Finances: Annual income, 1952,
£426,000; general funds, £760,000;
political fund, £66,000. Total payroll
£152,000. Running-costs: Head-office,
£135,000; district offices, £122,000;
branches, £lOO,OOO. Membership,
210,000. Has permanent officials in 27
areas.
There is an executive council of 11,
of whom only two are not avowed Corn-
munists. The president, Frank Foulkes,
is a Liverpudlian of geniality and no
apparent political views. The national
secretary, Walter Stevens, is a dapper
Cockney with an aptitude for shrew T d
business. Both hold party cards. So
does the assistant-secretary, Frank
Haxell, but with a difference. He is on
the Communist-party executive, and the
political power behind the scenes.
The union’s organisation is efficient
and comprehensive. Its publicity is run
on big-business lines. Major pronounce-
ments, including the launching of strikes,
are made to the tinkle of cocktail-glasses.
And it owns an imposing country-house
at Esher for the schooling of its chosen
members. What is less well-known is
that a clause in the lease of this stately
home lays down that the building can
be used only for educational purposes.
When Mr. Stevens appeared as a pros-
pective buyer local residents hoped that
this clause w ould prove to be a deterrent.
It did not. Education was held to apply
just as much to trade-unionists as to
the previous occupiers, schoolgirls.—
H. H. (London).
Television in England
While a commission of forgotten men
is still investigating the problems of tele-
vision in Australia, and deciding which
commercial TV station will be allowed,
the United Kingdom Government has
reached the stage at which it is prepared
to accept commercial television under one
of those commonsense plans which the
British formulate so well.
The scheme, promulgated a few years
ago, is to set up a public corporation
controlled by directors appointed by the
Government which would own and
operate television-stations and hire their
facilities to privately-financed companies
which would draw their revenue from
advertisements.
The corporation will have the right to
exercise a flexible control over the pro-
gramme-producing companies and regu-
late the class of advertising as well as
the programmes. There is to be no spon-
soring, and the programme-companies,
not the advertisers, will produce the enter-
tainment.
The most controversial subject in the
discussion of the plans has been whether
the stations should be allowed to deal
with politics and religion. The Govern-
ment has changed an earlier decision, and
these subjects will appear on commercial
TV at least for an experimental period;
but politicians and churches will not be
able to buy their way into programmes.
All that is to be permitted is that a pro-
gramme-company shall not be debarred
from putting on a religious or political
talk by arrangement with a religious
organisation or political party provided
there is no partiality shown as between
sects or parties.
There will also be safeguards to prevent
exclusive arrangements being made to
broadcast sporting and other eVents of
general public interest, such as Test
matches.—M. M. (N.S.W.).


A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
the
name
CdUum
0)
s
the
whisky
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
THE SPIRIT OF FRIENDLINESS.
MCl7a/6.2
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
World Sugar
“L.K.”: The new International
Sugar Agreement, which came
into effect m January, is of
special interest at a time when
some Queensland growers are
talking about restriction of
acreage,
Francis G. Thomson, wilting
in “Foreign Agriculture
(U.S.A.), makes the comment
that the problem of sugar is that
it is a surplus product; and this
despite the fact that millions of
people never get enough of it.
The paradox arises because those
who want it haven’t the money
to pay for it. If worldl consump-
tK>," I Pe r
only half that of the U.S., more
than 60 million short tons would
be required annually instead of
the 35 million tons produced last
ear>
During the immediate post-war
years nearly all producing
nations had leeway to make up
in order to reach at least pre-war
levels of consumption. The big
sugar-growing areas of Asia,
ruined by the war, have made
strenuous efforts to get back on
a pre-war footing. The export-
ing countries in the Western
Hemisphere expanded production
to fill the vacuum created by
decline of Asian production.
At the same time, importing
countries have made it a policy
to expand acreage, not only to
try to get back to pre-war
standards of consumption, but,
in many cases, to achieve self-
sufficiency, or near self-
sufficiency.
The large sugar areas of North
and Central America (other than
the U.S.) produced 24 per cent,
of the world’s sugar during
1952-53, and consumed only
6 per cent, of the world’s require-
ments out of that crop. The
bulk of the sugar sold in the
world free-market has been for
hard currency. While many
deficit areas have used scarce
dollars for sugar, most of the
sugar moving from the Western
Hemisphere has been financed
by one or more of the U.S.
more
than half the workrs population,
produced only U per cent, of the
workPs centrifuga i sug ar in
1952 _ 53 (centrifugal suga r is
sugar processed in factories), and
consumed only 16 per cenit.
]\fon-centrifugal (native type)
su ga j- exceeded the centrifugal
output • but, by Western
standardSj the Asian consump-
tion per head of both types Q f
sugar j s very i ow . On the other
hand} more factories are being
built in Asia, which points to a
hig b er consumption in the future,
Europe, with 12.7 pet
cent, of the world’s population,
d 23 cent , o£ the
centrifugal sugar outp ut.
The u s , aod its possessions, wilh
()n|y ha]f (he population c f
Europe, consumed about the
same amount. Obviously,
Western Europe is a potentially
i arger consumer,
xhe Soviet Union has an esti-
mated 8.4 per cent, of the world’s
popu i at ion, yet it used less than
one . t hird of the U.S. consump-
don
In ‘ Sou th America consumption
has shi f ted mo re and more from
non-centrifugal to centrifugal
sugar>
The new agree ment has 50
nations as signatories, and is the
most ambitious attempt made so
far to stabilise the world sugar
market. Unlike some commodity
agreements, importing countries
are not obliged to take specified
quantities of sugar. To maintain
free-market prices within a range
of 3.25 cents to 4.35 cents per
pound at Cuban ports, quantity
on the world free-market will be
controlled by a system of export
quotas. Preferential arrange-
ments, such as the British Com-
monwealth Agreement, the
United States Sugar Act and
others, still stand,
The present situation is this:
West European production for
1954 consumption is up 1.2
million short tons. Derationing
will increase consumption in the
United Kingdom, but this will be
largely satisfied by stocks already
held. This season the opening
carry-over (by major countries,
importing and exporting) is 4.4
million short tons more than
before the large crop of 1951-52.
Current inventories include a
special stabilisation reserve of
1.6 million short tons held by
Cuba. Of the balance, a sizeable
quantity is held by importing
countries, who bought heavily
during 1953.
Estimated world sugar-pro-
duction for 1953-54 (cane and
"It’s favoritism, that's all. Blokes like us NEVER git
an invitation to a Royal ball.”
beet) is about 39 million tons
(“Australian Sugar Journal”).
This despite crop-restrictions in
Cuba and Puerto Rico.
Problems in the North
“In the ACT”: Land use in
Northern Australia, and ways of
attracting labor and capital,
which were discussed at the
recent conference of the Institute
of Political Science, have
aspects not revealed there.
Grazier G. B. S. Falkiner, of
Haddon Rig, is one of those
with interests in the area, having
shares in the million-acre pro-
perty at Roy Hill, one of the
best-improved stations in the
north, and his views are worth
noting by Governments and
..others. He tells me that Roy
Hill’s development is due to the
fact that for about 20 years every
penny made out of it went back
into improvements. It’s now
showing a very good return,
although the average rainfall is
only lOin, —the variation being
from 2£in. to 20in.
The station has about 60
paddocks, and is watered every
three or four miles, but, as
Falkiner says, “it carries
kangaroos, cattle and sheep.”
One of the tragedies in all these
areas, he points out, is that when
you get rid of the dingoes and
put in plenty of water the
kangaroo populates “at a rate
out of all reason,” to the great
detriment of carrying-capacity.
The other snag is labor. White
labor is a serious problem,
although facilities at Roy Hill
for married men are excellent,
with 24-hour electricity, re-
frigeration and other amenities.
Falkiner is watching with interest
the new suggestions for tax-free
wages and other inducements for
development. He adds a word
of warning for pastoralists who
may be thinking of trying the
area. None of the country in
question, he says, is suitable for
grazing in small areas.
Meat Agreements
“J.F.”: Many growers are
wondering how a return to
trader-to-trader selling of meat
to Britain affects the 15-year
agreement. The answer is that
actual trading will be carried out
on a trader-to-trader basis,
floor prices being controlled by
the U.K. Government under the
terms of that agreement.
Some figures for first-class
quality hinds, in Australian
currency, give an indication of
the movement of prices over the
past few years; 3 /10/’49,
10.08 d.; 30/1/’5O, 10.09 d.;
23/4/’5l, 11.48 d.; 8/10/’5l,
15.31 d.; 19/5/’52, 16.56 d.;
3/11/’52, 18.37 d„ and 5/10/’53,
19.24 d.
Wonder Drugs
“Igno Ramus”; Two years ago
the Victorian Department of
Agriculture announced: “In
recent years, with the advent of
sulphanilimide and penicillin, the
treatment of mastitis in dairy-
cows has become much less of a
problem,”
“Agric.” (B. 9 /12/’53) stated
that penicillin was now the
acknowledged cure, but (the
italics are mine) many more cows
are becoming penicillin-resistant.
And now “Oxo” (B. 3/2/’54)
carries on the tale with yet
another wonder-cure, aureo-
mycin, which cures when
penicillin fails.
It seem an endless cycle. One
drug being used until the wog
builds-up resistance, another
drug superseding the first and so
on. With humans, we know,
many people have severe reac-
tions to penicillin, for instance.
What do we know about the
effect on cattle?
A different approach to the
problem is made by Sykes (a
dairyfarmer of 30 years’ experi-
ence), in his Humus and ths
Farmer: “Mastitis, in particular,
I maintain is the product of
unduly-high milk-yields achieved
at the expense of the cow’s con-
stitution.” And again: “I aim
satisfied that the basic cause of
this disease is lowered vitality
in the cattle themselves, and that
lowered vitality comes from the
farmer’s insistence on the main-
tenance of high milk-yields, not-
withstanding a possible reduction
in the stamina of the cow, and
a too - intensive feeding of
factory-made concentrates with
an insufficiency of the natural
rougher foods grown on the
farm.
“A reasonable milk-produc-
tion, the use of home-grown
food, a raising of the health-
standard of the cattle, an
improvement in humus-cultiva-
tions and -management, as out-
lined in this book —all these
forces, brought together to work
one with another, will speedily
rid any farm of mastitis.”
Argentine Beef
“Fons”: In the opinion of a
“Times” correspondent, return
of the meat-trade in Britain to
private hands has had the effect
of making Argentina anxious to
resume the pre-war practice of
shipping chilled-beef, instead of
frozen-, to the U.K, About
two years ago it was agreed to
do this, but the idea was dropped.
A return to chilling depends
on the technical capacity of meat-
packing companies in Argentina,
most of which are British- or
American-owned. The process
requires trained staff and many
conditions that are lacking in
Argentina today, including quick
and regular arrival of animals for
slaughter.
Third and last protocol of the
Anglo-Argentine five-year trade-
and-payments agreement of 1949
was signed in Buenos Aires on
February 8. But actual ship-
ments to the U.K. have been
suspended indefinitely, and it
looks as if there will be a deficit
of Argentine meat in the U.K.
in June. Deficit under the terms
of the last protocol was 35,000
tons.
March Sowing
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture recommends the follow-
ing for sowing in their respective
districts in March:
Beans (broad): Coast and
inland. Cole’s Dwarf Prolific,
Early Long Pod, Broad
Windsor,
Beans (French); Coast,
Hawkesbury Wonder, Brown
Beauty, Canadian Wonder, Wel-
lington Wonder, Giant Stringless
Greenpod,
Beetroot: Coast and inland,
Early Wonder (Rapid Red),
Detroit Dark Red, Crimson
Globe, Crosby’s Egyptian.
Broccoli: Coast and inland,
Green Sprouting.
Cabbage: Coast and inland,
Jersey Wakefield, Enkhuizen
Glory, Copenhagen Market,
Golden Acre.
Chinese cabbage: All districts,
Wong Bok, Pe Tsai.
Carrots: Coast and inland,
Red Core Chantenay, Imperator,
Manchester Table (Early
Nantes), Topweight, Danvers
Half Long.
Herbs (all types): All districts,
Parsley, Triple Curled.
Kohl-rabi: Coast and inland,
Purple Vienna, White Vienna.
Leeks: Coast and inland,
Musselberg, London Flag.
Lettuce: All districts, Imperial
Triumph, Imperial 615.
Onions: All districts, Earl
Barletta, Early Grano.
Parsnips: Coast and inland,
Hollow Crown, Red Stalk.
Peas: Coast and inland,
Massey, Greenfeast.
Potatoes; Warm coastal dis-
tricts, Katahdin, Sebago, Sequoia,
Adina, Monak.
Radish: All districts. Long
Scarlet, White Icicle, French
Breakfast.
Shallots: All districts. Small
French.
Silver-beet: Coast and inland,
Fordhook Giant, Lucullus, Dark
Green Broad Ribbed.
Turnips (table and swede):
Swedes: Coast and inland,
Winter Green Top, Champion
Purple Top. Table: All districts,
Purple Top White Globe, White
Stone.
Liming Coastal Pastures
“Kilno”: Liming pastures, on
the coast of N.S.W. particularly,
has been given a boost by
Department of Agriculture
demonstrations.
At first departmental officers
had some trouble squashing
demands for the tests to be made
with lime alone—i.e., without
super, to provide phosphates. It
such tests had been made, spec-
tacular growth, particularly of
clover, would have been seen;
perhaps from one or two
repeated applications. And from
this some false conclusions would
have been drawn.
The action of lime on soil is
well-known. Liming has been
going on for very many years,
and it is known from practical
experience especially experi-
ence of farmers in older
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Prospects for the rest of
March are some showery
periods. Not much rain of
importance except some
slightly better falls on the
N.S.W. North Coast.
There are still no sunspots,
so there is no indication of
any variation from the long,
cold, dry winter in Queensland
and much of New South Wales.


PRICt
£255
h
ĥħ
ĥ
SIMPLEX
1500 WATT, 32 VOLT
HOME LIGHTING SET
This is a compact, heavy duty light-
ing plant, easy to install, trouble
free in operation, and ■with a long
life. Powered by 4/5 H.P. 4 cycle,
water-cooled engine.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home light-
ing or agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road,
Newtown, Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved bp N.S.W. Board of Health, Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS . . f NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
:: ; ;
amy
m
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.)> 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapoee : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
. a #£#
MS/& 7V M/tOte
HOWARD
MARK
JUNIOR
ROTARY
HOE
bkj?;
GOVERNOR
Gives speed control from
' idling ’ up to 2,000 r.p.m.
DIFFERENTIAL
Gives greater manoeuvrabi-
lity, and easier handling on
short turns.
CONSTANT HEIGHT
HANDLEBARS
Once set to your best work-
ing height they never need
changing, regardless of the
working depth. Can be
swung right or left for side
control,
20" WIDTH OF CUT
8-bladed rotor gives wider
cut, covers ground faster,
leaves no uncultivated ridges I
PLUS
Solid rubber tyres and bigger
fuel tank. ‘Quick-hitch* attach-
ments include 3* and 4*
mowers, tool bar, trailer,
spray outfit, flexi-drive for
post-hole borers, etc., hilier,
furrower and coverer, etc.
The HOWARD Mark II 'Junior'
Rotary Hoe is completely built
to Australia. This guarantees
spare parts and service.
NOT JUST one or two, but every feature you have
wanted in a rotary hoe of this type has been built
into this new HOWARD Mark II 'Junior’! Improved
in design for better stability and balance, with
constant-height handlebars, solid rubber-tyred wheels,
and an unequalled range of 'quick-hitch’ attachments.
Still the same famous HOWARD 6 h.p. (670 c.c.)
engine, of course, but now with governor, fingertip
clutch, differential, etc.! But let us send you the full
story of this great all-Australian achievement 7 Post
coupon below now!
YORK MOTORS PTY. LTD.
252-256 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Please forward me details of the new Howard
Mark II Junior Rotary Hoe.
Name
Address _
Area farmed: Main Crop:
HW*«d
countries—that regular liming
has certain dangers. Particularly
on land with second-class
fertility. This type of land, of
course, is likely to show the
greatest improvement at first.
It takes a fairly long time to
tell what the effect of liming will
be on a soil. Generally, it
improves the workability of the
soil. That is the physical action.
But English farmers have a say-
ing, “Lime and lime without
manure will make both farm and
farmer poorer.” The word
“manure,” in this sense, means
organic matter, which lime helps
to decompose quickly, and also
plant-foods such as phosphates
(and other elements), which are
made more readily available to
the plants. The catch is that
loss of plant-foods by leaching is
also made easier.
Land thus impoverished
eventually fails to respond to
lime.
Some N.S.W. coastal farmers
have started using lime alone.
They’ll be sorry.
In Brief
Japan intends to buy 15 per
cent, more wool during the
financial year beginning April 1
(Dalgety’s News Service). In
return for import concessions
mentioned on this page last week,
Japanese exporters of wool
textiles are to get freer access
to British markets under the
control of the Colonial Office.
These markets have been taking
£7 million of woollen goods per
annum from the U.K.
♦ * * *
Drying crops in storage build-
ings, with forced ventilation, is
catching on in America.
* * ♦ ♦
Price of super, packed in new
cornsacks is down 16s. a ton,
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture reports. New price of
£l2 Is. 6d. is effective from
February 2. Reason —drop in
price of cornsacks. Price of
super, in paper bags (£l2 2s. a
ton) and in farmer’s own bags
(£lO 13s. a ton) unchanged.
♦ * * *
F.a.q. standard (N.S.W.) for
1953-54 has been declared at
641 b. per bushel for both bagged
and bulk wheat (same as last
year). Protein content is up
approximately 1 per cent.
* * * *
Graziers’ Federal Council has
been making representations to
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, and to the Queensland,
N. S. Wales, Victorian and South
Australian Governments, on
grasshopper-control. Main idea
—to catch them in the early
stages. Sounds simple enough,
but who is to pay, and how
much, is the obvious snag.
* * * *
Record pig entries for Sydney
Royal Show. Large Blacks will
be seen again, for the first time
for years. The breed is more
popular in Victoria than in
N.S.W., but lately some young
breeders on the N.S.W. North
Coast, particularly around
Lismore, have registered studs.
* * * *
Brazil is expected to produce
at least 50 per cent, of the
Western Hemisphere’s bananas
by 1957 (U.N. experts’ calcula-
tion).
* * * *
The Royal Aeronautical
Society will be holding a
symposium, on crop-spraying
and similar applications of fly-
ing techniques, in Sydney in
April. New Zealand operators
in town for the Show, Graziers’
Association and Department of
Agriculture specialists co-
operating. Films.
* « * *
British Ministry of Food is
selling Victorian oats from its
buffer stocks at over £stgl, less
than price offered by buyers for
Western Australian oats (“Wes-
farmers News” report). U.K.
buyers of W.A. oats are mainly
breakfast-food manufacturers.
* * * »
W.A. oats pool has received
inquiries indicating a nominal
value of 7s. 2d. a bushel, f.o.b.
W.A. ports. Trustees think this
a bit low. Total Australian crop
is smaller than last year. Higher
ocean freights from eastern
States have depressed the f.o.b.
value, and Victoria and N.SW.
growers are holding more oats
for their own use.
* * * *
A U.S. report credits a new
drug, Profloran, with making
sick animals eat by stimulating
bacteria in the paunch.
* * * *
Sugar interests have been
pressing for importation of
sulphate-of-ammonia over and
above the 5000 tons (to Towns-
ville and Cairns) for which an
import licence has been issued,
Queensland Cane Growers’
Council reports that another
import licence for 15,000 tons, to
be brought in during the first half
of the year, has been granted.
Request for an additional 20,000
tons, for delivery in second haif
of the year, not yet decided,
Q.C.G.C. anxious for an early
decision, so that fertiliser people
can place firm orders, and
growers get the stuff in time,
* * ♦ »
Artificial insemination, usually
confined to larger livestock, has
been successfully used at
Hawkesbury Agricultural
College (N.S.W.), with bees.
« « * *
At the California Agricultural
Experimental Station an electric
machine sorts lemons according
to color, under packing-house
conditions. Genesis of the
machine was the discovery that
yellow lemons had 90 per cent,
reflectivity in a particular part of
the spectrum, dark-green ones a
reflectivity of only 10 per cent.
It is expected that oranges,
apples and tomatoes will be
color-sorted soon.
* * * *
The cream of British Short-
horns sold to the tune of £220,000
(sterling) at Perth (Scotland),
according to a “Times” report
(Feb. 18). Nearly 50,000gns, was
paid in two hours for 80 bulls,
top price being 5600gns. for a
Calrossie Constellation, an early
March third-prize bull shown by
J. and D. P. MacGillivray, of
Ross-shire. Buyer, Cecil Moores.
* * * *
World production of citrus is
expected to reach 429 million
boxes for 1953-54, a record. The
United States is expected to
produce over 40 per cent, of the
total citrus crop, nearly two-
fifths of the oranges and man-
darins, about 90 per cent, of the
grapefruit, 40 per cent, of the
lemons and 10 per cent, of the
limes. Half of the world’s limes
are grown in Mexico.
Hints for the Farm
“Boggabri”: A contributor
(B. 17/2/’54) gives a spray for
fruit-fly:
An effective spray may be made
by dissolving loz. of tartar emetic
or sodium fluosilicate in Igal. of
water. This should be bottled
and marked “poison.” To use the
spray, a pint of the solution is added
to a pint of water and 2Jlb. of sugar.
The recipe is excellent except for
one particular. The amount of
sugar should be 2\ ounces, not
pounds.
“S.V.”: Tell “Bardin” (B.
20/1/’54) that a splint can be
removed: cheaply, too. Get
a bottle of Morton’s castor-oil
(blue bottle ; not tasteless oil),
and apply a little every morning
with the tips of the fingers, mak-
ing sure it goes through the
hair. About five minutes should
do. I don’t care how big the
splint is, it will start to go
inside three months. Don’t rub
—this causes blistering.
“Metax”: Last year the few
peach-trees in our garden were
badly affected with curly-leaf.
This year as soon as the com-
plaint showed I hung marsh-
mallows all over the trees. The
leaf condition gradually
improved and the trees have
remained healthy during the
season. Can anyone offer an
explanation other than
coincidence?
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the B.W.T.C. ?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


MY DAD'S A
MAN'S MAN
Does your child have a blind
faith in YOU?
Margaret Turner believes her father
is the “daddy of them all”.
With good reasons, too! Listen to this
gripping radio drama as the dramatic
life story unfolds around . . .
JOHN TURNER’S
FAMILY”
PRESENTED BY WRIGLEY’S
8.30 p.m. FRIDAYS
2GB - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2CA 2WL 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
* —MACOUAUIE I —k
For cafes, clubs,
halls, canteens
. . . and homes
Here’s a comfortable i
chair, designed for rapid *
stacking away when *
clear floor space is
needed. Hundreds
can be spread for
seating in a matter
of minutes and as
quickly stacked
away.
30
CHAIRS
IN THE
SPACE
OF
in Sydney area
STAK-A-BYE
CHAIRS m
or without arms,
- are of tubular steel
"'s frame, with weather-
resisting wrinkle plastic covered
steel or upholstered seat, reet
rubber shod. Choice of colours
available. Contact your furni-
ture supplier, or write direct
for Folder F3 , or name of
nearest Distributor (all States).
SEBEL
STEEL
furniture
from
£3.5.0
SEBELS (AUST.) LIMITED
96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown,
N.S.W.
’Phone UY 2813, 3895.
entertainment they were inter-
rupting—right up to Regerson’s
group.
“Either you promise us that
nobody will be dispossessed,”
Matters shouted at Regerson,
who remained, calmly seated,
glass in hand, “or we won’t
answer for the consequences.”
Regerson put on an impatient
expression. “Who do you think
I am? I can’t play hell with
the Minister’s decisions.”
But Matters was ready for that
sort of reply.
“You can give us your word
that you’ll make a very strong
recommendation to him. He’ll
have to take notice of what you
tell him, about how high feelings
are running out here.”
Regerson looked at him indif-
ferently. “Tell me one good
reason why I should recommend
a change of policy.”
The deputation was so
astonished to find a point of
view so utterly opposed to theirs
that for a moment they couldn’t
think of a thing to say. But very
soon they all were shouting:
“Put our life’s work into our
farms!” “No roof over our
head!” “Nobody else will do
any better here than us!”
Regerson brushed their argu-
ments away as worthless, and
there was such an uproar that
the hotel-keeper and his two
strong-armed assistants came and
ushered out the deputation. Last
to go was Matters. He seemed
to be swelling with something
devastating to say, when he saw
Rita. His face flushed with a
different, a more personal kind
of anger.
“You come out of here. You
stay where you belong. You'll
come to no good from the likes
of these.”
As he was pushed through the
door, a couple of other voices
came in, with old-fashioned
melodramatic threats:
“You’ll hear more from us!”
“This isn’t the end of it!”
npHAT night there were two
bacchantes to toast, but
neither of them could be induced
to dance on the table. Never-
theless it was a merry breaking-
up party. The radio-man and his
drinking-partners came up the
stairs last, some time after
Regerson and the girls had gone.
They agreed that they had had a
wonderful night, but were look-
ing round for some way of giving
it a spectacular finish.
They found what they needed,
a man creeping along the bed-
room corridors, listening at
doors and trying the handles. It
was Matters, looking more of a
ruin than he’d looked before.
Without needing any provoca-
tion, or any planning whatever,
they gave a yell, chased him to
the blind end of the corridor and
overpowered him.
Then the radio-man sat him up
and addressed him:
“Looking for your girl-friend,
heh? Well, shall we tell him
where she is? We certainly
shall, after all the trouble he's
given us during the conference.
All right, see that door there?
Do you know why it is shut on
a hot night like this, when every-
one else has left theirs open?
It’s because it’s Regerson’s door,
and the little girl he has in there
with him is a shy country girl.”
They all had to sit on him for
a while to quieten him.
“Like to bet she isn’t there?”
the radio-man said, pulling out
a roll containing so many five-
and ten-pound notes that Matters
stared at it, incredulous; prob-
ably more than he’d earned in
the last two terrible years. “All
this against what you've got in
your pockets! We can open the
door and have a little peep in to
settle it.”
But Matters, who possibly
didn’t have more than ten shil-
ling on him, didn’t want any
further proof. He left quietly
as soon as they let him go.
Some time between retiring and
morning I had a not unnatural
and quite intolerable need to get
out of bed. Looking down into
the yard at the back of the hotel
I saw a man open the engine-
room door, and roll out a forty-
gallon petrol-drum. At first, in
my sleepy state, it had no more
significance than to cause me to
wonder at the perfection of the
hotel’s organisation, which kept
up such nocturnal activity in
order that the electricity might
never fail the guests.
Then the precautions he
seemed to be taking to lessen the
noise, and the fact that he was
rolling the drum into the main
part of the hotel where such
large quantities of petrol cer-
tainly had no business to be,
made me stay to watch him.
I was beginning to think that
I ought to interfere, or rouse
someone, when I heard the sound
of someone running quickly
down the stairs in bare feet.
Then I saw a dishevelled girl,
with a dressing-gown far too
big for her flung over her
shoulders, emerge from the
hotel into the yard, I could
see immediately that a violent
quarrel had started between her
and the man.
I heard Rita’s voice raised in
an agony of fear. “Don’t do
it! Don’t do it!”
I raced for the stairs, but as
soon as I got to them I was
met by the strong smell of spilt
petrol; a moment later a
tremendous flash and a great
booming noise that shook the
whole hotel; flames and smoke
came leaping and billowing up
the stairway.
Then the rush to Harry’s
room and our almost impossible
job of waking the besotted
guests ; feeling so keen and alive
and so contemptuous of the men
who would have been burned to
death in their beds if we hadn't
slapped their faces or dragged
them crashing to the floor.
LAST we saw of the official
party was at the Wagoona
railway-station in the first
glimmer of dawn; a desolate
group, dressed in little more
than their pyjamas. Unfor-
tunately we couldn’t wait to see
what the train’s crew and pas-
sengers thought of them. Harry
and I had a commission to rush
ahead to the nearest big town,
and buy a set of clothes for
each of the naked ones.
With our own money, too, be-
cause no one else had had the
sense to save theirs. I was very
uneasy about the money, after
the lessons of the conference,
but Harry, who was providing
most of it, said:
“I don’t suppose we’ll get
more than half of it back, from
people like them. But it was
worth losing the rest of it to
see that gang of city nobs totter
along the station like a flock
of plucked turkeys, afraid every
moment that a rabbit might
come out of its burrow and see
them.”
his journey overland to Port
Essington in August, 1844. My
father’s brother John, a captain,
afterwards General Macarthur,
R.M., had been sent by the
English Government, with a
party, to form a settlement in
the Gulf of Carpentaria. My
uncle’s astonishment can be
imagined when Leichhardt sud-
denly appeared with his party.
having travelled from New
South Wales over unexplored
country. The settlement proved
premature and failed to establish
trade through Torres Strait.
Leichhardt started in 1849
from Canning Downs upon his
ill-fated second expedition into
the interior, supposed to be
desert, from which no tidings of
him have ever been received. I
was the last woman to bid him
God’s speed.
In 1847 Captain Hoseason
arrived in H.M.S. Inflexible,
which he commissioned on an
experimental voyage to test
some invention of his own. We
made many expeditions from
Government House in his boats
down that lovely harbor,' and he
and his officers were often at
Vineyard. On one occasion he
took the Governor-General and
party a cruise on the harbor and
the ship went ashore. No real
harm was done, and I don’t
believe it was reported to the
Admiralty. He gave a delightful
ball on board, which proved a
farewell to some of the friends
of my home.
On leaving Australia, Captain
Hoseason heard, en route, of
the Indian Mutiny, and, with-
out waiting for orders, he took
upon himself to go to Persia to
embark Sir James Outram and
his force at a moment of
extreme difficulty, for which he
received the thanks of the
Government,
About this time I recollect a
visit from Captain Charles
Stanley, private-secretary to the
Governor of Tasmania, Sir
William Denison, with his wife.
He and his brother, Captain
Owen Stanley, who commanded
H.M.S. Rattlesnake, were
brothers of the famous Dean
[of Westminster]. They both
died in Australia. I was par-
ticularly impressed by Mrs.
Stanley’s delight and surprise in
finding current English maga-
zines on the table. My father
had a box of books and
magazines sent regularly from
Richardson’s, London,
When railway-locomotion was
established my father sent for
models, and we had a small
viaduct set up in the library,
He kept pace with the times, and
when I first came to England
people expressed absurd sur-
prise that I was not astonished
about matters I had known from
my youth.
We had visits from many
men-o’-war prior to 1847:
H.M.S. Pelorus, Captain Hard-
ing of Baraset, Warwickshire;
H.M.S. Fly, the Hon. F. Black-
wood. Lord Dufferin’s brother ;
H.M.S. Beagle, Captain Wick-
ham ; H.M.S. Rattlesnake, Owen
Stanley ; H.M.S. Inflexible, Cap-
tain Hoseason. We knew some,
if not all, of each crew. Some
of these ships were in port for
long periods, refitting after
surveying-service.
Vineyard was called “Sailors’
Home,” and lifelong friendships
were formed. My sister was too
young to go into society, but
she was adored by the middies,
who all found their way to
Vineyard. Although so young,
she was then five-foot-six and
handsome. Lady Mary was
very kind and invited her to any
suitable festivities with me. At
home, she danced to her heart’s
content with older partners.
About this time my engage-
ment was announced. I prom-
ised to marry a man unknown
to the gay world—“a squatter,
a poor man, to be buried in the
bush!” etc. Whilst all who
knew him were delighted to feel
sure of my happiness and well-
being. At that period, George
Leslie was scarcely known, even
by name, in Sydney society,
Working for years in Queens-
land towards independence, and
the home he made for me, he
spent his holidays at Vineyard,
My marriage would have been
a very quiet affair had not Sir
Charles and Lary Mary Fitzroy
desired to attend; and they
remained some days at Parra-
matta. My cousin Robert King
(afterwards Archdeacon of Syd-
ney) officiated, and my sister
Emma was the only bridesmaid.
We halted two nights at the
inn in Camden village on our
way to visit Hugh Gordon and
sister Mary at Manar. Whilst
there, I heard, to my sorrow,
of the tragic death of Lady
Mary Fitzroy and A.D.C.
Charles Chester Master. They
were leaving for Sydney for the
season, four days after my
marriage, the household by
river-steamer, the house-party
by road. Sir Charles to drive
four-in-hand, Charles Master
and Lady Mary, with footmen,
in the carriage. The son, George
Fitzroy, waiting at the door with
his dog-cart, to follow. The
household had left on the river-
steamer.
The horses bolted almost
from the door, downhill, and
on turning into a short avenue
near the gate, the carriage was
upset against a tree. Lady Mary
was killed. Charles Master
lived some hours; Sir Charles
was seriously injured; the foot-
men unhurt—all in' sight of
Mr. Fitzroy. [Those gates are
now at the entrance to the
Parramatta Park, and a
memorial-tablet is nailed to the
tree.]
As Sir Charles desired to see
me, we hurried back to Vine-
yard. Our stay was all too short,
As after-events proved, I left my
dear old home for ever. Vine-
yard was sold to the Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Sydney,
[That sale of Vineyard was in
1849, and the old home is now
the Benedictine Monastery,
Rydalmere. In 1851 the Bene-
dictine Order started a school
there, and it continued as such
until 1922, when the school was
given up and it became a closed
order. Factories now encroach
on it, and its present occupants
—the Prioress and Nuns—will
have to move. The noise has
become too much.]
{To be concluded in next
week's Bulletin.)


NEW SPORTS BOOKS
THE FIGHT FOR THE ASHES, 1953
by Peter West & Roy Webber —a
unique book of reference for the cricket
historian, and the enthusiast who must
have every fact, figure and detail.
Covers every match played in England
during the Australian tour in 1953.
18/6 (post 1/1)
NATURAL GOLF
by Sam Snead —How to play winning
golf your natural way—a book that will
help every golfer discover his natural
ability and the way to play his best
game. Gives advice on position, swing,
grip, putting and the sticks to use.
Illustrated. 32/3 (post 1/1)
Write , phone, or call in for these , or any of the dozens of new hooks on sports
now available at ....
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
THE ASHES CROWN THE YEAR
By J. H. FINGLETON
This book is more than simply a cricket book ; it is also the story of
Coronation year in England, as seen by an Australian journalist.
288 PAGES 26 ILLUSTRATIONS
i; - .
Now Available from all Booksellers
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
remembered right down to her childhood
—and a comparison of his acting of “The
Bells” with that of the great Frenchman,
Coquelin, show that whatever son John
did with “Hamlet” would not be for lack
of knowing how it had been done before
him.
But the charm of the book is in its exact
descriptions of life going on, as that on
page 31, telling how the children were
prepared for visiting:
Finely-tucked, lace-trimmed little drawers
were buttoned on to our jean bodices; then
came a fleecy-knitted petticoat of fine wool,
another of saxony flannel, its edge em-
broidered by Mother in silken scallops, over
that two cambric petticoats, one tucked,
the other trimmed with madeira-work, and
then the muslin frocks, with little puffed
sleeves looped at the neckline with a string
of coral beads to match our necklaces.
Silk socks and sandals, sashes and hair-
ribbons completed our toilets When all
was ready, each of us was enveloped in a
big white Shetland shawl fastened with an
enormous safety-pin. These wrapped us
like cocoons and we were led and carried
downstairs and were dumped into the
brougham with Mother and Nurse, who
carried a large linen bag folded over her
arm. The bag was of red twill with LEWIS
worked across it in white cross-stitch.
Arrived at our destination, our shawls were
folded away into this bag and laid upon
a bed or chair, easy to spot when it was
time to leave.
But perhaps the best picture of the
muffled magnificence of the times is that
of the annual departure of the family
from their London home to their little
Scottish hut (to which Mr. Lewis had
added a large bungalow, maids’ quarters,
a laundry, vegetable-gardens and stables)
out from Inverness. There is father
packing a huge box of nursery-necessities
and toys, kitchen-utensils, work-baskets,
and his own paints and canvases, and
having it carried by gardeners and groom
to join the huge assortment of luggage
downstairs and stowed on the roof of the
station-omnibus, where children, nurses
and two maids followed it inside. There
are parents following in the brougham.
At 7 p.m., usually the children’s bed-
time ;
At Euston, which seemed a long way off,
Mr. Rich the stationmaster, who wore a
long dark coat and gold-braided cap. would
himself greet my Father and head the pro-
cession to our composite coach, which was
attached to the night mail-train. There were
two first-class carriages, a second-class com-
partment, a lavatory and a baggage-wagon.
We waited while luggage was sorted and
stowed, and porters went into carriages
and pulled down bunks so that each car-
riage had four beds instead of just seats —
then, very glad to get out of the jostle and
deafening noise, we children were lifted in
and undressed. With holland dustcoats
over our nightgowns we were tucked into
the top berths —our night things and pillows
had been brought in two great black bags,
known as the “Monsters,” and into them
our day clothes were folded for the journey
—a wise precaution, for, even with closed
windows, the amount of soot and smuts
that penetrated into the carriages during the
night was unbelievable.
Now, if New South Wales Rail Com-
missioner Winsor could do us a bit of
old-fashioned discomfort like that . . .
The book moves on full of detailed ob-
servation, to her courtship and marriage,
and a somewhat bewildering account of
her husband’s antecedents: his father
was a Lithuanian, bora at sea off Riga
during his parents’ flight from the Polish
Insurrection of 1830; his mother was a
Pole, daughter of an actress, and educated
in a Polish palace on the He de France in
Paris. Frank Gielgud himself had a
“position” with “a firm,” “good pros-
pects,” a house of his own ; was tall, had
long fingers and played the piano with
brilliance and wit.
There are also a few reminiscences of
her sons Val (who has been for many
years in charge of the 8.8.C.’s plays) and
John ; and a bit more about her first-
born, Lewis, badly-wounded during
World War I—he spent the rest of his
life working on Red Cross and interna-
tional-amity problems; but nothing in
the latter-half of the book approaches her
memories of her late-Victorian paradise.
The Poe fry Society
To stimulate interest in poetry I have
begun The Poetry Society, allied with
The Poetry Society, London, for it seemed
better to have a strong ally having similar
aims and interests, and already publish-
ing a good quarterly journal, the “Poetry
Review,” than to start alone.
The Poetry Society, London, has had
for some years strong allied societies in
U.S.A., Canada and S. Africa, as well as
poetry-groups throughout the U.K. and
elsewhere.
All Australian members, for one
guinea a year, will enjoy not only mem-
bership of the Poetry Society, Sydney, but
will become automatically members of the
Poetry Society, London, and receive the
“Poetry Review,” published at 3s. 6d
sterling.
The “Poetry Review” welcomes poems
and/or articles about poets or poems by
members. They have yearly premium
competitions with some excellent money-
prizes and intend, from 1954, to publish
yearly their own anthology. Members
whose poems and/or articles are accepted
for publication thus have, immediately,
a wide, keen and appreciative audience
throughout the English-speaking world,
while the voice of Australia will be sen-
sitively heard and understood.
In Sydney two meetings monthly will
be held, one for members only when
their own poems may be read and dis-
cussion held, etc., with opportunity for
fellowship. The other will be an open
meeting for members, friends and the
public, and will be either a poetry recital
or an opportunity for an eminent person-
ality to speak on poetry and / or poets.
My committee and I hope thus to
create an audience for spoken poetry
which should, we sincerely trust, excite
interest in both reading and study of
poetry and poets.— Imogen Whyse (The
Attic Studio, 217a George-street,
Sydney).
Choice of New Novels
A Single Pilgrim: Norman Lewis
(Cape). This novel might have seemed
better if both Graham Greene and Joyce
Cary had not used most of its characters
to better advantage. Admittedly neither
of these writers has set a book in Laos,
a country of which Mr. Lewis writes well
and, no doubt, authentically. The
central character is the English manager
of a teak concession, the existence and
efficient operation of which is threatened
by official policy, Communist activity,
the machinations of a rather hazily-
explained American of undisciplined
Right Wing ideals and finance, and a
sort of sticky interweaving of intrigue
between all these factors. After an in-
ordinately slow and insufficiently
explained beginning the book does gain
pace and a certain excitement, but noth-
ing that happens in it seems wholly
inevitable.
* * * *
The Ever Interesting Topic: William
Cooper (Cape). The title refers, as one
might guess, to sex ; or, more exactly, to
sex-education. The progressive post-war
headmaster of an extremely traditional
and slightly stuffy English public school
arranges for a lady social-scientist to
lecture to pupils and staff. The book
could easily have been ponderous or
purely slapstick—in Mr. Cooper’s subtle
hands it is moulded into the most delicious
semi-satire, all the more pointed for the
author’s occasional excursions into seri-
ousness. Masters and their wives, school
governors and senior boys manoeuvre
with witty assurance in a sequence of
situations which are never, until about
three-quarters of the way through the
novel, incredible. At this point the work
falls somewhat from its initial high
standard with the introduction of anew
and unconvincingly stagey headmaster
who behaves like a cross between some-
thing out of Greyfriars and a religious
maniac. However, in the last few chap-
ters something of the earlier “punch”
is regained.
* * * *
The Estrangement: Nadia Legrand
(Heinemann). Nadia Legrand is a
Frenchwoman living in England and,
apparently, writing in English. This
volume consists of the title-piece, which
is a short novel, and two short-stories.
The Estrangement concerns a group of
young people, mostly Continentals, who
are taking a special course of holiday
lectures at an English University. Most
of the men are Europeans convalescent
from wounds received while fighting in
the Allied services. A French girl, Luce,
and a Pole, Michel, fall in love but the
affair quickly fails largely due to their
differing temperaments and backgrounds.
Miss Legrand’s style is fresh but very
slight—this reader preferred one of the
short-stories entitled “Rather Common.”
♦ * * *
Cousin BazUio: E?a De Queiros (Max
Reinhardt). Why, on the evidence at
least of this novel, most ably translated
from the Portuguese by the South African
poet Roy Campbell, the publishers
should elect to compare De Queiros with
Charles Dickens remains completely
mystifying. The Portuguese author lived
at the same time, but if comparisons had
to be made, far more convincing ones
could be found among his French con-
temporaries. Cousin BazUio is a delici-
ously cynical tale of the seduction of a
most attractive Lisbon matron by her
ever-so-wicked cousin, during her hus-
band’s absence on a business journey.
Crisp and lively writing and characterisa-
tion of a particularly high order distin-
guish the book, while the pretentious
provincial city of Lisbon, its middle-class
society and its surprisingly informal
domestic arrangements, provide a fresh
and fascinating background. But those
purple passages! Dickens—never!
* « # *
Death at the Cascades: Bernard J.
Farmer (Heinemann). A young police-
man full of zeal pushes out to a water-
fall (“The Cascades”) on a wet night and
finds the body of a railway ganger’s
daughter who has been going out with
strange men. The story develops by im-
plicating most of the police-officers who
were on duty that night and works up
to a brilliant conclusion; but its special
excellence is in the detailed study of the
policeman’s lot and of varieties of Bri-
tish bobbies —the author is himself a
policeman and for these times when
authenticity is a fashion he has produced
one of the most unusual and satisfying
detective stories to come this way since
the end of World War 11.
« * * ♦
Battle Cry : Leon Uris (Wingate). The
United States Marine Corps believes it
won the war for the Allies. Once the
reader accepts this and realises that a
Marine is equally contemptuous of the
other armed services of his own country,
he can become thoroughly enthralled in
this book, a really excellent account of a
small group of U.S. Marines. Battle
Cry has no more design than, say, has a
medieval tapestry, but gradually the dis-
jointed parts fall together into a whole.
Uris makes few euphemistic compromises
either with his language or with his
reportage of events. He is, perhaps, a
little sentimental in his approach to a
few of the private-life incidents of some
of the men, but one could not label his
work as a whole sentimental. His
Marines supply salty humor both in con-
versation and incident, and any reader
familiar with American speech and mili-
tary slang will acknowledge that Uris
has a perfect ear. “Huxley’s Whores,”
the group described, were based for long
periods in New Zealand, and New Zea-
landers will no doubt find an additional
interest in seeing themselves as the
Marines saw them.
* * * *
The latest volume in Seeker and War-
burg’s standard-edition of Gide is The
Return of the Prodigal, in which are vari-
ous religious and philosophical stories and
the five-act drama of “Saul.” It is adver-
tised to contain some of his most beauti-
ful writing, but to this reviewer has the
consistency of buttermilk.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 268
Across
I— Whoever names pop before I
can name an airline of all the
New World. (3-8)
7—Unappreciable personality of
Central Arcadia. (3)
9 Flowerless plants for the Ger-
man I located in an optical glass
with fifty-one hundred layers. (7)
10— Employing Roy Rene —and be-
having like a useful cat. (7)
II — Minto beheaded. (4)
12—Quarrel in her cab. (6)
15—This is a prohibition, thanks to
derision. (5)
17 —Noah who invented the epoch-
making spinning-frame? (9)
21— I am unable to repair the beggar.
(9)
22 Steer first and look afterwards,
this is a bird or a daisy. (2-3)
24—Carrying tin got muddled. (6)
27 —A lot of chinwag on nothing off
Cape Howe. (4)
30 — Go-ahead publicity by S. S. Van
Dine’s detective. (7)
31— Leave before you crack the
whip as a matter of course. (7)
32 Dix crosses the Channel. (3)
33 Abrasive vehicle box-office to
manage half of an expanding
bullet. (11)
Down
1 — Fertilising the land of parrots?
(11)
2 Spoon going to a low joint
where bathers used to keep
themselves covered. (4-2-4)
3 The face is mine with a differ-
ence. (4)
4 He doesn’t stay in bed. (5)
5 Stop a thousand in a stupor. (5)
6 The North should love. (6)
7 A business in the money. (4)
8 — Barker is to follow closely. (3)
13 — A place for winter sportsmen to
leap to the saddle on an angry
pig’s back. (5, 6)
14— Unit of work. (3)
16 —Bland about a nurse in Queens-
land. (10)
18 — Stick tree upset an inept player.
(3)
19 — Not up? That’s how to gain
weight. (3)
20 — S 9 is back to 10, but rather less
than that. (3)
23—The heart of Lisbeth Nichols is
concerned with races. (6)
25 — The successor comes to tea be-
longing to them. (5)
26 — Black is a goner gone wrong. (5)
28 — A German of Stratford’s biggest
drain. (5)
29 African may suggest Taronga
Park to Costello. (4)
30 — Flat one with physical jerks is
very suitable. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 267


I: :
i
m
mm
%
.
■
m
M I'
m
■y.'
mm
, ■■ •
IHft
■V. i>: y- ;
| ft: ‘ JA
—MMMMIiI
■
■
■■ V:
m
tm. &
iili:
/
mmm
Urn ' m
"" ...
:J
mm
m
.
:
>K
Wt
m
//m
mmm
I
m
: i
w
BSJ*SS:
■:
-
m
; ; .. s
s
:*
i:,
... * ■"■'
SEi
.
/
v: ■>■:
mmm
wm
?:iiS
mm
' ■■■:■
your plans for them - "pipe" d
•i • -,vi f ' £V V ;. V*’ ' v ls"
' ■
—you’ve seen it dozens of times . . . young Johnny
threatening to “blow” your daughter off the map . . . the wife endeavouring
to prevent the “disaster” and yet be on both sides at the one time . . . great
family, aren’t they? Yes, and don’t forget they’re your responsibility for life
and even . . . well, none of us can escape it, you know . . . Incidentally, there's
a point—why not provide for that family of yours should things go “haywire”
sometime . . . it’s easier than you think, too. Have a chat to the M.L.C. man
—you’re under no obligation.
Even as a form of old age invest-
ment for yourself, or a means to
easier, systematic saving, you’d be
well advised by the M.L.C.
representative.
(Hops your daughter gets away
O.K. . . .)
reams?
ĥ
BE WELL ADVISED
BY THE M.L.C. MAN
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS
Assurance Co. limited
M135/F.P.
