

THE HOUSE
df
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
MISSIONARY TO GIPPSLAND PAGE 23
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3894
Wednesday, September 29, 1954
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Jeppelts
THE CRYPT CHAPEL OF
ST. MARY UNDERCROFT
BENEATH St. Stephen's. Hall, the oldest part
of the Palace of Westminster, is the ornate
Chapel of St. Mary Undercroft, which is known
as the Crypt. It was completed in 1327 and
consists of five vaulted bays with moulded ribs,
which spring from a group of clustered columns
of polished Pufbeck marble.
For many years the intricate carvings and
elaborate paintings on the roof were hidden
beneath a thick coating of plaster. After the
fire of 1834, however, the decorations were
discovered and restored by E. M. Barry, son
of the architect of the major part of the palace.
Every tone of the original rich ornamentations
in colour and in gold was carefully reproduced
and today the Chapel has very much the same
appearance as it did in the Middle Ages.
During its long history the Chapel served
several purposes, for at one time it was part
of the Speaker’s dining room, and in part
kitchen, coal-cellar and store room. Oliver
Cromwell, who appears to have had a passion
for accommodating horses in religious buildings,
used the Chapel as a stable.
In 1885 the Crypt narrowly escaped destruc-
tion when a fanatical Irishman, who belonged
to the Fenian Movement, placed a bomb there,
hoping that the ensuing explosion would prove
to be a conclusive argument in favour of the
abolition of British rule in Ireland. A policeman
found the bomb and hurried with it to West-
minster Hall, where it exploded, blowing a
large hole in the floor and shattering the great
window. For his bravery the policeman was
made a special award by Queen Victoria.
At one time it was generally believed that
the Crypt was the place in which Guy Fawkes
placed his barrels of gunpowder, but his attempt
to blow up the houses of Parliament was made
in a similar groundfloor chamber beneath the
then House of Lords at the south end of the
Palace.
At the east end of the Chapel are full-length
figures of eight saints, and at the entrance to
the baptistry is a representation of Noah’s Ark,
and another of Moses holding the Tablets ol
the Law. From the floor of Minton tiles to
the intricate carving on the ceiling the Chapel
is filled with a profusion of ornament. Today,
the Chapel is used for the marriage of Members
of Parliament and for the christening of their
children.


The Red Page
MISSINGHAM SKETCHES
Among paintings commendably noted
by The Bulletin at the recent Sydney
exhibition of the Australian Watercolor
Institute was “Hal Missingham’s quick
capture of ‘Morning Light, Coolah’—he
brought it back alive, as it were.” He
has done much the same with a lot of
subjects, a whole bagful, in fact, in the
Hal MJssingham Sketch Book, very
nicely designed by the artist himself and
handsomely put out by Dymocks.
That, indeed, is the attraction of most
sketch-books worth looking at —they do
record the first impression, the first cap-
ture, and bring the idea back alive and
kicking, in which state it is often fresher
and more natural than when it is stuffed
with paint and technique and mounted
on canvas. Not that Missingham is often
guilty of such inartistic taxidermy; one
of his virtues is the light, deft skill with
which he handles his specimens, recognis-
ing, as in.the abovementioned “Morning
Light, Coolah,” that a painting should
not be a stuffed bird; that it should still
be on the wing.
The sketches in the book under review,
however, were not meant for stuffing
and mounting. As Missingham says in
his introduction:
Few of the sketches are made as studies
for more ambitious works. They exist
simply in themselves, records mostly on the
run of people, places and objects I have
enjoyed and wished to put down in the
handiest form available. The facility I
have has been acquired over a long time.
Seven years at art schools abroad, five or
six hoursL a day, every day of every week
and every year. Approximately but not so
consistently the same number of years
teaching, intermittently during the war
years, and with increasing tempo since.
I delight in the facility so painstakingly
acquired, and take no little pride in being
able to put the pen to paper directly, know-
ing that I can do it. In seeing the drawing
develop from the mental image sometimes
so clearly projected that the parts and
whole are almost visible on the page before
one begins; in putting it down without
doubt or hesitation—often hardly with con-
sciousness.
Admirably put, engagingly frank and,
after you leaf through the sketches,
modest, too.
The first fourteen pages are given to
“People”:
So much variety exists in an area a little
larger than a man’s hand, wherein must fit
two eyes and brows, a nose and mouth.
Yet no two faces are alike, nor matched
any two sides of any face. All are delight-
fully malformed.
That, perhaps, indicates a certain nar-
rowness, an impression supported by the
sketches that follow. With a couple of
exceptions, the people—the faces —are
fat, thin, sullen, sharp, sour, smug,
asinine, cranky and what-have-you.
They are, in other words, all “delight-
fully malformed,” and are drawn with
admirable facility and wit. But —from
the human standpoint, anyway—there
are beautiful faces and handsome ones,
and surely there is as much reason, if not
more, for drawing them as there is for
recording the “delightfully malformed.”
The popular cult that there is no interest
or artistic worth in beauty for itself is,
after all. wearing a little thin.
Missingham says the faces are “records
on the run,” so it probably depends on
where you run —if the present writer had
the artist’s enviable facility, he would
be on the run around Sydney just before
9 a.m., during the city’s lunch-hour, and
immediately after five in the evening.
That’s the time to catch ’em on f the
run—all the neat little ankles, trim shapes
and pert faces hurrying to or from the
offices, shops and other places where their
wicked bosses keep them hidden all day.
Maybe there are a few “delightfully mal-
formed” among them, but, bless you,
most of ’em are little humdingers.
But we digress, while Mr. Missingham
moves on to “Travel,” and more people.
The interest in human oddities is still
there, though not quite so persistent.
There are sketches of sailors, artists,
diners and others in which the line is as
sharp as the observation, and there are
demonstrations of good solid technique
in the records of the foredeck of M.S.
Tamerlane, and of the massiveness of the
ship’s anchor-shackles and -stopper.
The interest in oddities extends to
buildings:
There is a rich diversity in the architec-
tural detail of Australian buildings which
is anathema to the purist and a delight to
the artist in search of interesting material.
Full of. eccentricities and wayward fancy;
rich with the personality of the egocentric
builder.
With that, perversely perhaps, the
present writer, as an incurable designer
and builder of shacks, lean-tos, goat-
sheds, privies and whatnots, is in com-
plete agreement. The classic line and
purity of style are, of course, irreproach-
able, but there is something irresistible
about weathered weatherboard, the way-
ward plank, the bent nail, the rusting
iron, and the shack that just growed with
a lean-to on the lean-to on the skillion.
Perhaps it’s only the same charm that age
and pigeons lend to bad statuary, but it’s
still there.
Mr. Missingham appears to feel it, too
—his line is less sharp; it softens as
though with affection as he records the
jumble and junk around the old boatshed
store; Moy’s cream-box —“the real Aus-
tralian architecture”—with the weight of
years giving it a lovely lurch and line
that no architect could ever conceive;
and the wonderful conglomeration of
styles in “House at Mona Vale.”
Then, in a moment of propriety, there
is a cool, classic drawing of the entrance
to the Law Courts in Perth, followed by
a delightful relapse into a page of coun-
try lavatories.
There are, to quote the artist’s own
scribbled notes, the “weekenders at Era” ;
‘Kalgoorlie privy— rusty red tin sheets” ;
the shaky affair of “rough-dressed tim-
ber, and extremely draughty” ; the rococo
structure with “red tiles, gabled front,
scalloped door, fibro, painted cream and
red iouvred window”; the squat little
job of “galvanised iron and heavy dressed
hardwood. Strictly utilitarian”; and,
lastly and with a hint of mystery, the
affair of “flattened kerosene-tins, patches
of wood and tin, artistic decor and handy
chopping-block."
They are all seen and drawn with a
nimble, affectionate wit which would
spring fond tears of memory from any
Specialist, and which, indeed, should
elevate Mr, Missingham to that small
select band, provided, of course, that
such membership is not incommensurate
with his present position of director of
the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
P.D.
Mature Allusions
The interminable monologue of a
i; taro „ r , , Tr .... . “
hterary lady spilling quotations in the
book-publisher story in Edmund Wilson’s
Hecate County should be enough to warn
any reader off literary chitchat or essays
made up of scraps and tags of literary
and critical writings for life; and as
Daniel George says in his book of col-
lected criticisms. Lonely Pleasures (Cape),
To acquire the habit of reading criticism
is the worst thing that can befall a reader,
„ ~ „' . . _ _ , ,
But the 63 pieces in Mr. George s col-
lection, written during or since the war,
and first p r i nte d in “Tribune,” “Time and
Ti de,” “The New Statesman,” “The
Sund Times,” “The Observer," “The
Daily Express> .. etc > though they are
chockiul of quotations, are of quotations
rare and to point _ in fact> he is
something 0 f an expert on quotations, as
his several essays on inclusions and
om i ss i ons from the Oxford Dictionary of
Quotations prove; the short but packed
d j S q U i s ition on possible origins of the
sa yj n g “The English take their pleasures
sad j y » f or instance
Bu { what makes ' Mr . G eorge a stU mb-
Ung . h i ock to thQ reader who has sworn-
critical writings for life is not so
much his weU . sto cked mind or his seduc-
tively-terse and conversational style as
the rejective wall he puts up against the
flood J of books that threa tens the present-
d reader; the boredom of the excep-
tif/nall well-informed, as in the fourth
{ * of hk symposium “ T he Future
f Ficti „ in y a dreadful dialogue of
, „ t - ’ 51
uan )“ a 1n * . ,
“....People simply shouldn’t be allowed
to go on wrj[bn g those twitter-twattering,
pious-improper novels about noble but
decrepit families spasmodically practising
the true with paradoxical philo-
S& £ £ D,mP
“Oh, come. At least novels in that class
are bright—intermittently. Not so gratui-
tously and unforgivably fatiguing as those
”
“If you want to know my unfavorite
novel nowadays it’s the gallant county family
f.n 6- B^ er Ll a ter^ric M ‘ F f f, cing tear 7
ml odds and ends, with deep-seated
daughters and Cambridge intellectual sons
to furnish the epicenery and all the neigh-
bors nouveaux riches who can’t sit a
bear jt . ite .
number to that is the drearily priggish
proletarian novel. Solidarity of the work-
c^ ass^s relieved by fornication in the
feffg <5 » *»*
“X mU st say you’re hard to please. But
if y° u don’t like peeps into the future per-
haps you’ve a weakness for dips into the
past.” j
“Historical novels? Good God, no.
Ghastly, ghastly, but ghastly—clattering on
cobbles and champing horses and ‘Unhand
me, Madam,’ and ‘Undo me, Sir,’ and
interminable passages of desiccated history
ostentatiously ornamented with knowledge-
able bits about card games and cookery
and farthingales.”
“Well, then, if English writers are so
vomitab i e don ’ t you see any hope in the
Irisb sc ho 0 l?”
“None at all. You’ll never persuade me
that anyone wants a revival of that soggy
prose-poetry, that wallowing in whimsy
about Cuchalain and Ciruachan and Con-
chubar and Concubine and Acushla dear,
and all the rest of the moth-eaten troupe
that poor old Yeats used to make us so
endlessly nauseated with ”
“....I can never tell one dismal Welsn
novel from another, can you? ... .Besides,
the Welsh style is so bituminous. Reading it
is like walking on soft asphalt....’
“....As purging as novels set in China.
Let’s prohibit them —irrevocably. And
while we’re about it, let’s prohibit any fur-
ther translations from the French, Italian,
Czech, Rumanian, Hungarian or Spanish
about diseased and penurious peasants and
beautiful benevolent prostitutes serving lithe
young poets under the countermand saintly
but scabrous priests and insatiable coun-
tesses and awful child heroines of the
Resistance.”
It is much more complete than that.
For the rest, it is all extraordinarily good
conversation; broad rather than deep, but
so broad that the publisher very properly
gives “a glimpse of the index” as a jacket-
advertisement ; for instance, from the ten
pages of double-columns in fine print, a
few consecutive “A’s” :
Anna Livia Plurabelle, 143. Antegenesie,
or What were the occupations of God before
the Creation? 91. Ants, and Midas, 92.
Antwerp, drunkenness and lechery at, 114.
Apathy, defined, 206, Aphrodisiacs, 102.
Apocrypha, the, and Daniel, 61. Aquarius,
character of people born under, 98. Aquinas,
13. Archimedes, 47-8. Argyll, Duke of, and
portable conveniences, 263-4, Aristotle,
and cuckoo-eating
Fingerprinter
Ex-Chief Superintendent of the Finger-
print Bureau, New Scotland Yard, Fred
Cherrill, begins his autobiography,
Cherrill of the Yard (Harrap), with a
fine run of prose about so unlikely a
thing as helping his father grind flour on
a stormy night in an old water-mill now
long disused —the point being that there
in the fine-ground flour he first saw his
fingerprints.
This boyhood memory has broken
through the rest of his lifelong training
in the exactitudes of the expert witness
which, although it has given him clarity
of exposition, has rendered him at times
meticulous as a general-purpose nar-
rator:—-
“Oh, she’s gone to London to stay with
Grandma,” replied Manton, knowing full
well that his wife’s body was even then
lying in the river Lea tied up in potato- and
other sacks.
“And other” is good. You can see him
preparing for the defence lawyer’s ques-
tion : “So the body was tied up, when you
saw it, in potato-sacks?” Answer: “No,
not entirely. Part of it was tied-up in
other sacks.”
There is an interesting and authoritative
account of fingerprinting, from the days
of Herschel, Gallon and Henry (it was
first instituted in India in 1897 ;
and in Britain in 1901.) and Mr.
Cherrill considers the chances of
the fingerprints of two persons being
different are a septiltion to one: i.e.,
1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 to 1.
More of a scientist than a detective,
Mr. CherriU’s greatest adventure was of
almost getting burned to death in a
Scottish hotel when he was np there to
give evidence; and although he tells the
stories of a great many interesting police-
cases that came within his own experi-
ence (“French Marie,” the “River
Raffles,” the “Fourteen-shillings Mur-
derer,” the “Blackout Ripper,” the comic
case of the “plumber” who cut through
the bathroom floor with- the full consent
of the occupants to get at the shop below
during the lunch-hour, and the grisly
matter of taking skin from the thumbs
of dead men) his part of the solution
never comes with that thrill and shock
that makes a murder climax really good
—it is more like cheating by looking at
the end of the book for the answer, or
turning it up in the index.
Though the case of the murderer who
caught a finger-ring in the spike of a
railing as he was leaving the scene,
wrenched himself away, and left his finger
still secured to the spike, should delight
the most captious critic. Sure enough,
the author took a print of it, and sure
enough it corresponded with one in the
Yard’s files.
China Then
In China Trader (Constable) A. H.
Rasmussen goes back to Hong Kong in
1905 where, still pretty young, he swal-
lowed the anchor and took a job with the
maritime Customs service.
He was soon sent to Chinkiang, where
his job took him boarding ships whose
owners were as likely as not to chop
through the rope he was climbing up the
side; but as relief to the cramped life
of the concession, there was good shoot-
ing of pheasants, deer, and especially wild
boars —there was a standard penalty of
10 cents a pellet for Chinese mistakenly
hit during snipe-shooting; the difficulty
when a woman was hit was to get her to
expose the seat of the trouble for count-
ing ; but this was overcome by an offer
of a dollar for 10 possible pellets and
no inspection. There are some first-class
pictures of boar-hunts.
After a few years Rasmussen left the
Customs to run the branch-office of a
Shanghai firm in Chinkiang. In the
fighting that started in 1911, he took
charge of the Chinkiang ambulance unit,
and saw the campaign that ended with
the sack of Nanking ; heads nailed by
their pigtails to walls; women jumping
into the moat; and two thousand
Manchus to be machine-gunned in the
Tartar City. When he returned to Chin-
kiang, he found his employer there with
a replacement; a Shanghai paper had
reported that Rasmussen had been made
a general.
Next there is an expedition to Pochow
to discover to what degree the fighting
was holding up exports; past stations
crowded with starving peasants trying to
sell their children, and up a river that at
one point is blocked by corpses; but
perhaps the best adventure of the book
is the trip he made during his second
Chinese sojourn, from Tientsin out to
Paotow, to make sure that the wool came
through.
To the interest of this description of
the wool-trade and the wool-traders, the
merchants’ feasts and their business
methods, are added the difficulty of get-
ting into Paotow, not yet freed from
General Feng by the Shansi forces; a
card from a mysterious Mr. Bien to be
delivered to Colonel Yuan; and a deal
with the Mongolian chief Dammuran,
an ex-bandit and “the only honest official
the border had ever produced,” by which
Dammuran would provide an escort to
protect the RasmuSsen camel-train from
the powerful bandit Sun Mo Ling:
1 remember asking him why the military
had never been able to put down banditry.
He laughed heartily and gave me the reply
I had before. “Because they are Chinese
and they argue like this: ‘Why should I
fire a cartridge at a bandit when I can sell
it to him for one dollar?’ ”
A Lakely Story
In Arthur Upfield’s new chronicle oi
the detective Napoleon Bonaparte, Death
of a Lake (Heinemann), the tendency
of his backgrounds to take over the
story has progressed to where the mag-
nificence of the scene-painting completely
overwhelms the detection.
The main character is a disappearing
lake on a huge outback station in a
region that is almost desert. The lake
appears after heavy rains, resists for a
few seasons the evaporative effects of
temperatures up to 120 degrees, and after
a few years drops from a depth of 20ft.
to complete dryness. Then it may not be
seen again for many years.
The lake creates animals to drink at
its banks; notably rabbits, which proli-
ferate in hundreds of thousands. Min-
nows from the small stream grow huge
in it; all kinds of waterfowl frequent
it; the crows hang round, waiting. So
do the station people in the overseer’s
house and men’s-quarters on its shores.
A young hand, who had ridden in
some time before on a motor-cycle,
made love to the coquettish and calcu-
lating daughter of the woman cook, and,
gone for a midnight swim in the lake,
has not returned; and it is discovered
that he had been carrying round with
him a suitcase-full of banknotes, his
winnings in a Queensland lottery. When
Detective Bonaparte arrives, disguised as
a horse-breaker, the lake is down to only
a few feet, and is due to dry up com-
pletely within a few weeks; and over-
seer, cook, daughter and hands are be-
coming more than a little excited; for
all except perhaps one of them want to
know if the young motor-cyclist’s body
will be found, and how he died; and
most of them hope to discover what he
had done with his fortune in notes.
But as the book approaches this ex-
cellent climax, with studies of the over-
seer and hands and the jealousy of the
still-attractive mother for her beautiful
daughter, the author’s interest turns to
the old trapper and his arrangements to
trap as many rabbits as possible when
they come down to drink the last remain-
ing waters of the lake. The only diagram
in the book is not an aid to the detection,
but a description of the trap laid; and
the climax of the discovery of the skele-
ton is completely overshadowed by the
description of the tremendous haul cn
rabbits on that night of slaughter, and
of the last moments of the lake on the
following day; and birds falling out or
trees and men struck dead with the heat.


mm
if-Sj
'■&>
wBMHMmi
»/».«“near enough... is not good enough”
flliig
:
*
0M
:• mg}
m
M
' 5rv^
Pwflr
■'. '. ' m
- .%JE
k
' if
« j*
pi#
.::
:-s
I
5 \ i
' /c.-
i 5 i
mm
-}
mm^m
|r ,'' -
mt :x
T Jk
mm
mm
' vStf j
v.-: : .;.. : .: sttSSS
. m
*>kl
Maderniy ~ shaped frames
We’ve hundreds of different glasses
frames ! Every one’s different . . . the prettiest
for the women the practical for the men.
Exciting colours, too ! Reds, blues,
greens, pinks, golds !
Hundreds of lives depend on the scientist. He can’t afford his
calculations to be only "nearly right"! Neither can the optometrist.
Your eyesight depends on his skill. That’s why it’s up to you to consult our expert.
Our optometrist, Mr. J. A. Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., is in attendance
in our modern Optical Consulting rooms on the second floor. He will be
only too happy to advise and prescribe treatment for any optical discomfort,
you may suffer —at any time. Simply ring our new number, 80951,
for an appointment, or, if you live out of town, drop us a note.
dsf
Our Repair Service , This is a very important' section of our Optical Centre.
We can supply new frames, lenses, etc., and with th utmost speed and efficiency.
*»
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns
OPTICAL DEPARTMENT, SECOND FLOOR. ’PHONE 80951 FOR AN
MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 29, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3894
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ; Box 2521;
"Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
BLUEPRINTS AND RED-HERRINGS
Back in the days when The Bulletin was very young
someone brought into its office in lower George-street
elaborate blueprints of a projected tunnel under Sydney
Harbor. Whose brain-child it was no one can now
say, but the paper’s Oldest Inhabitant recalls that when,
as a printer’s devil, he first saw the plans, they were
already aged and dust-grimed. Their ultimate fate is
unknown. One theory is that they were burnt when
fire ravaged a section of the old residence of The
Bulletin ; another, that they were washed away when
the Tank Stream flooded the basement of its present
dwelling-place. The suggestion that they were handed
to Sir Henry Parkes in exchange for an autographed
copy of his collected verse was not, until recently,
seriously entertained, although it is a fact that no
convincing alternative explanation has ever been given
for the presence on The Bulletin bookshelves of
Parkes’s Fragmentary Thoughts.
Last week, however, a radio-talk by Parkes’s
current successor raised suspicions that the tunnel plans
had, after all, been lying in the N. S. Wales Premier’s
office ever since Queen Victoria’s day. Mr. Cahill
was talking over the A.B.C. network and was free to
select his own subject. He could have chosen the
Liquor Referendum; it would have given him plenty
of scope for explanation. He could have given a
cosy little chat on his about-to-be-introduced Obscene
Publications Bill; some cogent reasons why the Quinn
case should not be reopened; a discourse on how
Complete Preference turned out after all to be Com-
pulsory Unionism, which he had denied it was ; an
affirmation or denial of the rumor that the Sydney
City Council is getting ready to swallow some more
municipalities. But Cahill discoursed on none of these
things.
Instead, he spoke of a proposal to build a tunnel
under Sydney Harbor —a “useful and constructive”
suggestion which, he said, had been put forward by his
colleague H. C. Mallam, M.L.A. for Dulwich Hill. He
quoted Mallam as saying that Dr. Bradfield and other
engineers had recognised the value of such a tunnel,
but that “construction difficulties in the past were
much greater than now.” His Government intended
to “closely consider” the suggestion.
Next day, in the Assembly, the Premier was more
cagey. In answer to a question he said the Govern-
ment would not consider building a tunnel until it
had obtained all the information possible; the idea
had been rejected before and it might be rejected again,
Cahill’s attitude seemed to imply that anything he may
have said on the air should be treated with the utmost
reserve. It is possible that when he went along to the
broadcasting-studio he was short of a subject, and in
desperation grabbed at Mallam’s suggestion—or at an
ancient blueprint—as something non-controversial and
calculated not to offend his party-bosses.
But if Cahill is lukewarm on the tunnel-plan
Mallam, his close friend and adviser on transport
matters, is decidedly not. He claims that a new link
between the north and south shores of the harbor is
now needed, and that a tunnel would cost less than a
bridge and could be constructed more quickly. These
two assumed advantages are already being hotly dis-
puted by those who prefer to do their harbor-crossings
in the open air rather than through subterranean sand-
stone. But whether tunnel or bridge has the advantage
is, after all, purely a relative matter when the probable
cost of either is considered. Ready-reckoner minds are
already supplying estimates ranging from £6O million
to £lOO million, so it is well to take a loojc at the
Cahill Government rate of progress on less costly
projects.
Round about the time the Sydney Harbor tunnel
plans were brought to The Bulletin office forward-
looking people were talking of an Eastern Suburbs
railway. They weren’t thinking in terms of half a
century ahead ; they were all for starting it right away.
As to the tunnel —it was probably just a toss-up which
project would be finished first —the tunnel or the
railway. It’s still a toss-up —with the odds on the
penny’s standing on its edge.
In 1947, with an election on his hands, Premier
(now Admiral) McGrrrrr promised the completion of
the Eastern Suburbs railway in three years. Seven
years and two more elections have passed, and large
caverns under Martin-place and Chalmers-street remain
as a proof of good intentions—though any reputable
brickyard could show excavations every bit as impres-
sive and far more productive. Apart from blaming the
Menzies Government for the non-completion of the
Eastern Suburbs railway. Premier Cahill has seemed
only too willing to forget the project, but under fire
on the subject of the tunnel he proclaimed that his
Government had spent a considerable amount of
money on the railway, and that he would not be
satisfied until “some part of the City railway” was
completed. The actual figure he quoted at the A.R.U.
conference was £2,602,000, which covers expenditure
on the twin projects—Eastern Suburbs railway and
City railway. This evidence of the high price of holes
should be carefully weighed by tunnel enthusiasts,
because there would be a \vhole lot of hole in a
Sydney Harbor tunnel.
The Cahill Government’s sudden interest in a
tunnel as a means of easing Sydney’s traffic-problems
and in particular the problem of the Harbor Bridge
bottleneck would be more convincing if the Govern-
ment had shown itself receptive to suggestions for
mitigating the difficulty in other ways. It has refused
all pleas for the lifting of the toll, although the toll-
collection obviously slows-down the stream of vehicles
and contributes to the traffic-snarl. The cost of abolish-
ing the toll would be merely a fraction of the annual
interest on the cost of a tunnel. If it be argued that
not the toll but the narrowness of the streets approach-
ing the bridge is the real bottleneck, then the answer
is that resumptions would enable the approaches to
be widened at only a tithe of the cost of a tunnel.
Obviously the Cahills prefer airy dreams of the future
to practical realities of the present.
It is the present traffic-problem that needs solu-
tion, not those of 50 years hence. Toll-abolition is a
measure which would be effective immediately; the
resumption-project would take a few years. But, if the
progress of the Eastern Suburbs railway is any guide,
the Sydney Harbor tunnel —like the railway—could
well be outmoded by atom-powered helicopters years
before its completion.
Still, for sentimental reasons The Bulletin would
like to see those blueprints again. The Oldest Inhabitant
insists that they were very elegant. Which is more
than can be said for Fragmentary Thoughts.
"Labor" and Secuity
The actions of Dr. Evatt in the Petrov royal com-
mission have put the Federal “Labor” party in a pretty
quandary, from which it cannot escape if some of its
members stay in their present frame of mind. There
exists in caucus obviously the same pro-Communist
bloc as supported Russia during its alliance with
Hitler’s Germany in 1940-41 —the same which was
against the suppression of the Communist party when
its members were caught red-handed in espionage and
sabotage during the war; the same who were ready
when the Communists needed help in 1943, and who
condoned the creation of a Prime Minister’s Trade-
union Advisory Panel, which included Thornton of
the Ironworkers, Healy of the Watersiders, Chappie of
the A.R.U., Thomson of the Building Trades Federa-
tion, Wells of the coalmining industry, and Yates of the
Munition Workers (making a Communist majority of
the whole body).
It was the same bloc again which thought Jock
Garden, the father of Communism in Australia and of
the socialisation objective in the “Labor” platform,
the ideal liaison-officer between the Government and
the trade-unions; the same also which rushed to the
rescue of the Communists when the Menzies Govern-
ment brought down the Arbitration Act amendments
introducing the controlled secret-ballot which ousted
Communists from union offices ; and the same that
led the van in the fight of the referendum campaign
against the Communist-party Dissolution Act.
Dr. Evatt and E. J, Ward, whom Garden
claimed as his political godsons, have always been the
leaders of this group, though Mr. Ward at
last Wednesday’s meeting seems to have been
extremely silent, as if he were hoping to
cast his leader for the role of Beria. But he is no
doubt the same Ward who said almost exactly five
years ago that he did not share the opinion of honorable
members that there is a real menace of Communism in
Australia. And Mr. Pollard, who was quoted in the
“Tribune” in November, 1939, as approving Stalin’s
pact with Hitler, and who at that time was proclaiming
that he was “not going to tear his hair if a few Com-
munists were discovered here and there,” remained
heated in his defence of Dr. Evatt’s behavior.
W. M. Bourke (Fawkner), in his bitter attack in
caucus last Wednesday, said little which observers
at the Petrov inquiry have not known, but
" which the public has been generally prevented from
knowing by the extraordinary reticence of some of the
daily-newspaper reporting.
He told Dr. Evatt that, in effect, he had been
“senior counsel for the Communist party and Rupert
Lockwood before the commission,” and he might have
added that what he has done must have the hearty
approval of the Kremlin.
Mr. Bourke said that his leader certainly had not
represented his staff, as he claimed. The proceedings
of the Doctor have had only the most minor
relationship to the substance of their advocacy,
which is aimed to prove—without a tittle of evidence
being produced during six weeks of determined attacks
on Crown witnesses —not merely that a single page of
a gossip document found in the Russian Embassy
and mentioning the names of Dr. Evatt himself and
his two officers was forged, but that, as the Doctor
has repeated again and again, the whole of the docu-
ments before the commission produced by Petrov,
including the voluminous ones emanating from
Moscow, have been forged.
Mr. Bourke claimed that Mr. Hill, the secretary
of the Victorian Communist party and counsel for
Lockwood, had visited Dr. Evatt’s chambers
frequently, and he declared that Dr. Evatt’s charges of
conspiracy were “fantastic and ridiculous.” According
to the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” he added:
If any conspiracy exists Dr. Evatt has been the
leading conspirator. He has filled this role in his
attempt to discredit the commission on behalf of the
Communist party. The Communists will be eter-
nally grateful to him for having uncovered the names
of Security agents....he is simply the stoogte for
the Communists,
Dr. Evatt and his followers succeeded in fending-off
decision on the debate and in securing the withdrawal
of a resolution by Mr. Peters, seconded by Mr. Burke
(Perth), censuring the leader for having appeared
before the commission, and making public statements
on controversial questions without consulting caucus
But this cannot end the matter.
Dr. Evatt’s intervention and extraordinary behavior
have become an outstanding issue not only in politics
but in national security, and unless Dr. Evatt can
justify himself and the sweeping charges he has made
it is not in the national interest that he should remain in
public life, and especially in the position in which, as
leader of the official Opposition, he enjoys the con-
fidences with which the holder of that office is always
trusted.
Gentlemen of the Jury
“Bill the Wizard”; The case that most amused me
during five or six years of court-reporting arose out of
a hillbilly feud in the New Zealand backblocks when a
woman who objected to a young man crossing her
property chased him off it (“in excess of zeal,” her
counsel explained) by beating him about the head with
a dog-chain. It may sound a bit grim, but there was a
lot of life in that case.
The most tragic was an inquest on a farmer who
had been spraying ragwort on his property with some
sort of chemical can strapped to his back which had
caught fire and burnt him like a living torch in front of
his wife’s eyes. The most sordid was a
divorce from the slums, at the conclusion of which
the tear-stained fat blob of a woman offered me five
shillings to keep her name out of the paper. The
most preposterous punishment was a fine of £lOO
which a magistrate imposed on a farmer for shooting
two wild pigeons on a reserve adjoining his property.
It strikes me as absurd now to have seen so much
of the fafade of the courts and to have seen it mostly
as drama, and never to have known what goes on
behind the scenes in the accused citizen’s final refuge:
the trial by jury which is the basis of our whole system
of justice. An omission I have lately remedied by
doing two days as a juror at Darlinghurst.
What really goes on in that locked room when,
after counsel for the defence has made his last plea,
and counsel for the Crown —fair enough, but hanging
on to the prisoner like a bulldog—has been forced to
loosen his grip, and after the summing-up by the judge
(so quiet, so shrewd, so temperate, so patiently and
scrupulously fair) the jury at last files through the
courtroom door and disappears into the stony corridors
and mysterious recesses of the courthouse at
Darlinghurst?
Well, the first time we really got together, at the
lunch-adjournment on the first day, there was an
extremely interesting conversation about ants.
It started when somebody mentioned Argentine-
ants. Then the young estate-agent with the blue eyes and
the frank, serious face said that long ago at Cronulla he
used to put a red and a black bulljoe in a jam-jar
and watch them fight to the death. The iron-hard little
man with the wrinkles and the pipe who might have
been a master-plumber said that when he was a lad
he picked up an old gaspipe in a vacant allotment and,
sucking before he blew a trumpet-call through it, got
a great mouthful of the little black ants that get into
the sugar at picnics. “And the taste of them! I
vomited and vomited! They even crawled out through
my nose. Couldn’t get the taste out of my mouth till
I ate some bread-and-dripping” (a remedy worth
remembering).
In the court, incidentally, we ate roast mutton,
followed by fruit-salad —who’d have thought of
kitchens and cooks lurking cosily somewhere in that
stony labyrinth of justice?
But the amazing thing about these light-hearted
connoisseurs of ants —drawn from all over Sydney
and all kinds of jobs: the jolly fellow with the stick
who seemed to be suffering from gout; the smart young
businessman who carved the mutton so expertly ; the
prosperous, heavy-jowled man with the Italian
Christian-name; the man who looked like a clerk and
the man who looked like a milkman —was how
seriously, how earnestly and with how much goodwill
for Crown and accused alike they got down to the
business of Guilty or Not Guilty when the final
retirement came.
It turned out to be one of those very rare occasions
when you really see men at their best. Nobody tried
to bribe us; nobody tried to coerce us. Nobody, as
we sat at ease smoking round the long table, had an
axe of any kind to grind. Nobody’s personal feelings
were involved, nobody’s ambition, nobody’s political
or religious prejudices, nobody’s private interests a
situation you could hardly hope to find anywhere
outside a jury-room: 12 men honestly, dispassionately
and co-operatively trying to find the truth.
The verdict —Not Guilty, as it happened—was
arrived at gradually, after full discussion, out of the
12 men’s collective commonsense. If wasn’t an
important case; just the sort of thing that goes on
every day in the courts all over Australia ; but it was,
all the same, a classic example of the working ot the
jury system, and nothing could possibly be more
reasonable or more fair. Which, since one never knows
who will be next, I report for the comfort ana
reassurance of all who care to listen.


NOT KIDDING!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Prodding the Mad Dog
The drift towards war in the Far East
is becoming threatening, and not the most
hopeful features of it are the actions of
the Nationalist “Government” in Formosa
(which appears to be engaging in a sort
of non-stop preventive war against the
Chinese mainland) and the disastrous
wrangle which has split U.N.O. during
the week.
It seems time that the nations con-
cerned in the Eastern situation asked
themselves where they are going, if they
do not already know. A firm stand is
one thing; a provocative attitude is
another.
The Seventh American Fleet, a power-
ful squadron, is in the region of the
Formosa Strait and has orders to defend
Formosa from invasion no matter how
it is launched —that is, provided it is
needed. The ageing Chiang Kai-shek’s
forces, largely in the hands of a Moscow-
trained son of Chiang, are reported to
have done great damage to Chinese
coastal shipping and to be pressing home
their attacks against Amoy and adjacent
bases from which invasion forces might
set out. Peking is fulminating at
one end of the line and Washington at
the other. While the Chinese regional
committee at Nanking has been issuing
directives to the East China Army to
proceed towards its “historic task” of
reconquering Formosa, and Peking has
boasted of its military strength and
announced an intention to replace the
seven divisions which were being
withdrawn from North Korea, the
United Nations Assembly has been the
venue of the American war of words.
There, a few days ago Senator Lodge,
the U.S. delegate, made public a “list of
38 Chinese attacks on ships and aircraft
over the last four years,” a record which
he sa(d would show that the shooting-
down df an unarmed British aircraft on
July 22 last was not an isolated incident,
but “part of a constant aggressive pres-
sure against the free world.” Twenty-
five of the incidents were against the
British and not the American flag. Mr.
Lodge said:
This series of acts of piracy must be viewed
as part of a still larger pattern. I refer to the
Chinese Communist record in Korea; the cam-
paigns of extermination against the Chinese
people themselves, in which millions have lost
their lives; the boast of the Chinese Com-
munist leaders that they have the second-
largest army in the world—second only to the
Soviet Union. Within this larger pattern, the
many violent actions off the Chinese coast....
seem to reveal the basic character of the
Chinese Red regime committed to any means
whatever, but especially to violence, in order
to accomplish its aims of violence.
All this is, of course, is very good
reasoning why Red China should not be
allowed to join an organisation devoted
to the promotion of world peace and the
defeat of policies of aggression. But if
Red China has no right in U.N.O. Red
Russia has no right either —nor any of
Moscow’s satellites.
On the day on which the United
Nations again rejected China for mem-
bership Mr. Clement Attlee, who might
easily be Prime Minister of the United
Kingdom within a year, committed him-
self to the statement that “I think For-
mosa is the biggest difficulty of all. Per-
sonally speaking, I think the sooner we
get rid of Chiang Kai-shek and his troops
the better it will be.” There are many who
are not Labor men who are strongly
with him, whether they be right or wrong.
There is too much prodding of the
mad dog in the policies of the Far East.
It takes two parties to keep the peace ; and
the Western nations, being civilised and
established, would do well to set an
example in conciliation while keeping
their powder dry.
TV op Not TV?
“M.F.D.”: The controversy about tele-
vision looks like starting all over again,
despite the firm recommendation of the
royal commission that it should be intro-
duced as soon as possible and the obvious
intention of the Government to carry out
that recommendation. Government back-
benchers have attacked the proposal,
arguing that it is doubtful whether we
want television at all, but, even if we do,
the present is not the time to introduce
it while so many people are still waiting
for telephones and other amenities. To
add to the confusion the head of a
powerful commercial broadcasting net-
work has now come out with a demand
that private enterprise be allowed to
establish television in Australia, as it did
broadcasting, without cost to the public.
, Theoretically, the suggestion that if
public money is spent on television now
we shall have to wait longer for tele-
phones is sound, hut in practice it never
works out that way. There is, however,
much to be said for the claim that
private enterprise should be given an
opportunity of showing what it can do
in this new field of entertainment before
spending a lot of public money in building
national stations. If private entrepreneurs
fail to cater adequately for the public or
show too poor a taste in programmes the
Government can then give the A.B.C. or
some other national authority the signal
to go ahead. The threat of competition
will probably be much more effective in
keeping private enterprise up to the mark
than actual competition itself.
Melbourne Show
Victoria’s 1954 Show opened on one of
those dazzling spring days with a hard
wind blowing out of a hard blue sky and
a hard sun blazing down upon the Show-
ground. Although most of the old fea-
tures can still be detected by careful in-
spection under the lady’s astonishing new
chromium-plated face-lift, her make-up
is so complete that her friends of last
year, or 30 years before that, could
easily 'pass her in the street and not recog-
nise her.
So much machinery painted in so
many vivid colors has been stuffed inside
her that a Martian visitor could readily
come to the conclusion that horses, cows,
sheep, pigs and fat cattle had been elimi-
nated altogether, an impression which
would be heightened by the sight of a
tractor going round and round in a
circle in a private arena without a driver
and of another enormous gadget waving
its arms in the air in a blind, unconscious
manner but continually repeating the
same complicated operations.
In one pavilion there is television,
and in another a girl is throwing into
a hopper bales of tobacco which come
out at the other end in an incessant flow
of gaspers. These spectacular displays
tend to dwarf the Department of Agri-
culture’s most modest efforts to explain to
the farmer how plant-diseases can be
eradicated and how pastures can be im-
proved and soil-erosion arrested. It is
as if Nature were fighting a losing battle
against the giant Science. There were
23,000 entries this year—looo more than
the highest record, and an extra five acres
retrieved from the Housing Commission
have enabled the R.A.S. to provide better
facilities for both exhibitors and the
public.
One of the facilities for the public
is a fine old colonial villa which the
present commentator didn’t know existed,
although he has been attending shows
for 28 years, and which has been turned
into a country club, while there are, in
addition, cafes all over the place, and
a Chinese restaurant whose stout Con-
fucian proprietor provides first-class food
in ornate and more-or-less Celestial
surroundings. Warm pies and cold tea are
still obtainable at a moderate price, how-
ever.
Despite the mechanical invasion there
are still the horses. They may have be-
come mere toys to the horse-lovers, just
as sailing-boats have to the sea-lovers, but
the devotion of their owners and their
breeders is as great as ever. The arena
on judging-day was a sea of tossing
heads, velvet coats, plaited manes and
perfect conformation, and girls and boys
and women as well groomed as their
mounts, and the air was full of jealousy
and hate and Evatt-like mutterings about
the conspiratorial machinations of
judges. And there was a glittering
brewery wagon with a team of trampling
Clydesdales.
It is a good show. Forty new stands
have been erected, and the society and
private exhibitors have spent over
£200,000 in improvements. Present com-
mentator stumbled on an innovation in
the shape of a row of windows marked
£l, 10s., 55., etc., and, presuming that
George Adams Cain had extended his
charitable operations, went up to a
window and proffered a ten-bob note ;
but it was a new tote for the trots, not
for Tatt.’s.
Cold Breeze Blowing
The next N, S. Wales elections are still a
considerable distance away—the present
Parliament has just passed the half-way
mark in its three-year course—but there
are signs that the “Labor” party is feeling a
little uneasy about the future. Expression
is given to this feeling in the current
issue of “News Review,” official organ
of the A.L.P. in Sydney, which describes
itself (lest anyone should think the
“Century,” “Tribune” or “Astrology” is
performing that function) as the “only
newspaper giving Labor’s viewpoint.”
“News Review” complains that many
members of the party are “worried at
the complacency” of some Ministers and
members regarding the elections, ancj it
warns those who are saying “Joe is home
on the pig’s back” to think again.
Peering apprehensively into the past, it
recalls a previous occasion when “Labor”
went into power with a record majority
after an Independent had held the balance
of power, yet lost heavily at the following
election. The reference is apparently to
the last Lang Government, though the
Bavin Ministry came in between Jack’s
one-man majority of 1927 and his record
win in 1930.
In February, 1953, after having been
kept in power for three years by half-
independent Geraghty, the Cahill Govern-
ment, like that of Lang, came back from
the election with a record majority.
“News Review” fears history may repeat
itself, and it insists that “nobody is
justified in considering that the State elec-
tions are already won and that Labor is
in power for another three years.”
Obviously whoever inspired the “News
Review’s” editorial is afraid that the
squabble now wracking Federal “Labor”
will spill over into the State party. Despite
eulogies of Mr. Cahill’s “able and
courageous” leadership, the executive
knows well enough that the 1953 victory
was due almost entirely to the unemploy-
ment-scare raised by Federal and State
“Labor” when the Menzies Government’s
popularity was at its lowest. That is a
horse they will not be able to saddle
again, and if the Cahill Government ever
has to fight an election on its own record
it will be a different story.
If, as the “News Review” complains,
Cahill’s Ministers are showing com-
placency, it was probably induced by the
sorry spectacle of a disunited Liberal
Opposition struggling to find itself a
leader. For the better part of a week
during August they had every reason
to feel complacent, but the picture is not
quite the same now. Murray Robson
and his party, together with their
Country-party allies, have about 18
months in which to prepare for their bid
for office. If they go about things the
right way they should have every chance
of toppling the Cahills, who may find
Federal “Labor” more of a burden than
a help next time, and who must by now
have run out of materials for redistribu-
tion of seats.
But for Robson, Bruxner and Co., as
for the Cahills, the biggest danger may
be complacency.
Australian War Weapons
Developments are demonstrating be-
wilderingly the problems which beset
those charged with the air-defences of
countries of large surface and modest
means like Australia.
Australia, when the MIG began to
challenge the F-86 Sabres in Korea, in
1951, decided to build a Sabre of its own
which would be bigger and better and
fitted with the superb 70001 b.-thrust
Rolls-Royce Avon engines which develop
about 2000 h.p. more than the then
current engfties in the F-86s.
After much travail and redesigning the
R.A.A.F. has one of these marvels. The
other day it flew from Melbourne to
Canberra, 304 miles, in 29 minutes, and
it breaks the sound-barrier in the 30,000 ft.
range in power-dives. By the end of the
year the lone machine will have increased
to 12—at enormous cost.
There is only one fly in the ointment.
As far back as May last year the
United States began testing a prototype
Super-Sabre jet-fighter, and is now
building $100,000,000-worth as a pre-
liminary venture. This Sabre is twice
as big as the Australian Sabre, can fly
twice as far, has a 10,0001 b.-thrust engine.
It can potter along at 800-900 m.p.h., and
it is meant to intercept jet-bombers in the
serene altitudes up around 50,000 ft. Also,
it costs —in U.S. —about three times as
much as the Australian Sabre (which is
plenty). And, of course, by the time
the R.A.A.F. had a few built here and
modified to suit Australian conditions the
Americans would be testing a Super-
Super-Sabre, which would probably cost
three times as much as the mere Super.
It is sensible that this country should
have the equipment to build modem
aircraft, but to depend on our limited
resources to machine the R.A.A.F. for
war would be fatal. The policy is to
keep sufficient modern machines to train
a skilled potential for war, do the best
we can with the money available and
have an arrangement to get the latest in
vogue when the time comes.
Compared with the position in 1939,
Australian air-defence equipment is large
today. Apart from the 12 -Sabres, the
R.A.A.F. have 19 Canberra twin-engined
jet-bombers, 12 Neptune anti-submarine
and long-range reconnaissance-bombers,
60 Lincoln bombers (six squadrons), 70
Meteor jet-fighters.
None of these machines is to be
sneezed at for its special purposes in
modern war. Collectively they form a
useful defensive against seaborne attack.
And the main thing from an aerial
defence point of view is that there should
be plenty of trained men and a ring of
air-bases round Australia capable of
accommodating any type of machine the
world can produce and proper radar
equipment. Bases are planned for major
airstrip operation at Amberley (Brisbane),
Gar butt (near Townsville), Darwin,
Moresby, Manus and Cocos. The Gov-
ernment, having regard to what is going
on at the rocket-range, is obviously doing
everything possible within the limits of
its resources.
Liberals' Anniversary
“In the ACT”: In the middle of October
it will be 10 years since the representa-
tives of a varied collection of non-
Socialist political groups met in Can-
berra at the invitation of the then Leader
of the Opposition, R. G. Menzies. Many
of them came with little hope that unity
was possible, and some came not pre-
pared to sink their newly won identity.
In 1944 “Labor” seemed strongly
entrenched, and it had, as Menzies
pointed out, an efficient Commonwealth-
wide organisation. In his letter of invi-
tation he said that a successful outcome
of the discussions “might quickly and
completely alter the current of Australian
politics,” a prediction which evoked little
response even from his largely dispirited
supporters in Parliament. Yet the con-
ference, its delegates coming from nearly
20 organisations in all States, settled down
to work with a remarkable degree of
goodwill and unanimity.
This was due mainly to the efforts of
Menzies himself. His own political
future was admittedly at stake, but his
overwhelming objective was to obtain
unity among those impatient with Social-
ism and apprehensive of continued
“Labor” rule. He stressed the need for
a clearly accepted political outlook, and
laid down a basis for it which soon after-
wards became in essence the policy of
the party which arose out of that con-
ference. Some of the birth-pangs of the
Liberal party were not easy, and a few
of those who were at first persuaded later
withdrew their allegiance when they felt
their own particular objectives had been
ignored or given insufficient prominence.
But the Liberal party, formally brought
into being at a second gathering two
months later, this time in Albury, went
slowly ahead. Its first Federal contest
(unsuccessful) was in Fremantle after
John Curtin died in 1945, and its first
electoral victory was in a metropolitan
seat in the N.S.W. Assembly. The 1946
election was fought before the organisa-
tion was ready, but a remarkable cam-
paign by Mr. Menzies cut down
“Labor’s” majority substantially, and
gave further encouragement to Liberals
in and out of Parliament. The real results
—the true change in the direction of
current Australian politics—came in the
election at the end of 1949, The sound-
ness of the planning, the commonsense of
the policy first formulated 10 years ago
have been proved in the two elections held
since then, and by the current rapid dis-
integration of the Socialist party, bank-
rupt of the ideas and energy essential to
successful opposition.
Many individuals and organisations
have helped in the establishment and
consolidation of the Liberal party, but
they would all undoubtedly agree that
major praise must go to its leader. R. G.
Menzies would not seek any tangible
recognition of the anniversary, but he is
entitled to congratulations from those
whom he led to victory, and to gratitude
from the Australian people.
Stratford, Ontario
“D.S.”: Three years ago Stratford,
Ontario, meant about as much as
Stratford, New Zealand: to its inhabi-
tants, everything ; to the great world and
the culture of the nation, very little.
Now it is a centre of theatrical life as
vital to Canada, indeed to the whole of
North America, as Stratford-upon-Avon
is to England. Sixty-six thousand people
saw the first Shakspearian festival in
1953 ; this year thousands more, with
visitors from all over Canada and the
U.S., came to a season that lasted nine
weeks.
It began as one man’s idea —Tom
Paterson. He was a soldier in Europe,
saw the Italian opera and the dramatic
festivals of Great Britain, and decided,
(Continued on next page)


when he went home, that it was about
time that Canada woke up. He got some
local businessmen interested in the dream
of a Stratford festival; a committee
invited Tyrone Guthrie over to discuss the
possibilities, and so the thing began.
Tyrone Guthrie has directed both the
1953 and 1954 seasons. They bring over
a few British top-liners for the polish
and the box-office, and the rest of the
cast is Canadian. They act in a sort of
colossal pie-dish—a concrete amphi-
theatre dug out of a hillside, over which
is hung an enormous tent, draped with an
inner tent of blue and maroon. The stage
juts out from one wall and projects into
the centre of the amphitheatre, so that
play and audience are all mixed up to-
gether in the one witches’-pot of theatri-
cal excitement, as in the Assembly Hall
in Edinburgh.
So Canada has got the sort of festival
by—and for —which all Europe seems to
live, both financially and culturally: like
the opera season in Rome, the Maggiore
in Florence, the Biennale in Venice
(where John Heyer’s “Back of Beyond”
got an international film award), the
festival of Lucerne, the Passion-play at
Oberammergau, the music and the opera
at Salzburg and Munich and Vienna, the
international drama festival at Paris
(where “The Cocktail Party” got such
puzzled and dubious notices), the
summer-long carnival at Stratford-upon-
Avon, the glorious Edinburgh Festival,
where this year, along with “The Match-
maker” and the two Old Vic Shakspeare
productions, were the Glyndebourne
opera, the Sadler’s Wells ballet, exhi-
bitions of Cezanne and Diaghileff, sym-
phony concerts, the Oxford players with
Marlowe’s “Edward II” —literally scores
of all kinds of magnificent entertain-
ments.
Good things do happen in the Aus-
tralian theatre —the Borovansky ballet;
John Alden’s “King Lear”; the opera;
patches of brilliance from the little
theatres. But it must be admitted that
the only carnivals of culture we could
offer to compete with Edinburgh and
Stratford, Ontario, are the Sydney Show
and the Melbourne Cup. An Australian
town —say, Canberra —which wanted to
start a festival would have no greater
difficulties in the way of distance, finance
and accommodation for vistors than were
overcome in Canada; and really there
should be more in Australian life than fat
cows and fast horses.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Petrov Commission adjourned
during the week after having spent six
weeks on Dr, Evatt’s charges of con-
- spiracy to forge documents designed to
injure himself and the Labor party, the
alleged conspirators being his former
press-secretary, Fergan O’Sullivan, and
the Petrovs. The commissioners on
Monday began to hear addresses of coun-
sel hoping that they would throw more
light on the charges, which they had
already described as “fantastic,” than the
cross-examinations, which had produced
no support for Dr. Evatt’s accusations.
9 •
Federal “Labor” is talking itself into
an attack of the jitters with its constant
accusations of phone-tapping. The limit
was reached by Senator Ashley when he
said that telephone-revenue had dropped
last year because people were afraid to
use the phones for fear of having their
line tapped. He went on to say that the
tapping-technique was now so good that
the persons using the phone didn’t even
hear a click. This is possibly the basis
of the incessant complaints from Ward
and Clyde Cameron ; every time they have
a phone conversation and don’t hear a
click they consider that is sure proof
that eavesdroppers are on the line.
• •
The margins case will now be reopened
in the Arbitration Court in Melbourne
next Tuesday, October 5.
• •
Queensland Government is to investi-
gate proposals for building a £5 million
power-station on Callide or Blair Athol
coalfield. Both sites are a long way from
Brisbane, but the idea is that the plant
would serve Rockhampton, Gladstone
and adjacent areas. The modern tendency
is to build the station on the field and
transmit the power instead of transporting
the coal. South Australia’s new power-
plant at Port Augusta is a compromise
along these lines. Coal is railed from
Leigh Creek and the power generated at
Port Augusta is fed into the electricity-
system down as far as Adelaide and
beyond.
• •
No matter what moralists may say
about beer-drinking, followers of the
pastime can at least make out a prima
facie case for their patriotism. Last year,
according to Commonwealth statistics,
they paid more than £7l million in
Customs and excise on their potations.
They did this in'the course of swallowing
22.26 gallons per throat of the popula-
tion. This was almost double the 1938-39
consumption, but in the same period the
topers’ contribution to the Treasury in-
creased tenfold.
* • •
Victoria is to have a new Land Valua-
tion Act which will do away with the
present system under which various
rating-authorities municipalities, Land
Tax Office and Water Board—make
separate valuations of the same land.
When the new measure becomes law the
Valuer-General will be the central
authority for all valuations, thus saving
confusing and overlapping.
• •
Another union has broken away from
the Communist grip, thanks to the court-
controlled ballot. R. E. Wellard, Com-
munist secretary of the Postal Workers’
Union for several years, has lost the job
to an industrial-grouper, and Left-wing
candidates for other offices have also
been defeated. YeLthe N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment still refuses to give members of
unions registered under State laws similar
ballot facilities to those enjoyed by
Federal unions.
Commenting on the defeat of Wellard,
a newspaper said he would probably go
back to his job in the post-office.
According to the record, Wellard’s “job
in the post-office” was found for him
just in time to qualify him for nomina-
tion for the post of secretary.
• •
Melbourne Communist J. J. Brown,
former secretary of the Victorian branch
of the A.R.U. and one-time dictator of
Melbourne transport, has again been re-
fused a job by the Victorian Railway
Commissioners.
« •
“Daelite”: One Australian city where
beer can be bought in small bottles (B.
8/9/’54) is Adelaide, where the West End
Brewery puts out Regal Lager in lOoz.
bottles. Twenty years ago Abbotsford
Brewery in Melbourne used to sell half-
bottles ; I can’t say whether they are still
on the market.
• •
Queensland’s own hydroelectric scheme
at Tully Falls, small cousin to the Snowy
Mountains project, but big enough in its
way, is getting to the stage where pro-
duction dates can be talked of. Treasurer
Walsh in his Budget speech announced
that it was hoped to' have two turbo-
alternator sets in commission during
1956.
Other North Queensland works under
way are the Mareeba-Dimbulah and Bur-
dekin River irrigation schemes.
• •
Mallam, “Labor” M.L.A. for Dul-
wich Hill in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
WHICH CENTURY?
“Another thing, Mallam—if we can only get the A.L.P. to admit
a few of these wombats we may be able to see daylight through your
tunnel by the turn of the century!”
° £ TranSP ° rt
Ttey* are renS’atSndlile 0 ” “ofS
decapitated fowls, while Sydney’s traffic
grows daily more chaotic. We can buy
f&rasteMkM? £
that is what Sydney so urgently needs on
its traffic problems.
And supposing “we” did get their final
decision and judgment, what weight
would they carry if they ran counter to
the decisions and judgment of the Trades
Hall and the A.L.P. executive?
. ~ ,
No one should know better than Mai-
lam that major decisions by the N.S.W,
Transport Department are often vetoed
by the unions, and that Cahill and Co.,
in which Mallam is a junior but flashy
partner, meekly acquiesces. That is the
main trouble with N.S.W. public trans-
port. Mallam’s attack last week on
Transport Commissioner Shoebridge was,
in the circumstances, cowardly even for
a “Labor” politician out to “go places”
in a hurry.
• , •
Making a demand for the Government
to get on with urgent prison-reform,
Maltby got up on his hind legs
in the Victorian Parliament and remarked
that the scaffold at Castlemaine jail was
a bestial reminder of a bestial age. With
his usual promptitude Chief Secretary
Galvin said: “We are going to have it
removed.” A couple of days later Mr.
Whatmore, Inspector-General of Penal
Establishments, announced that the
scaffold had been removed 30 years ago.
A couple of days later still a prisoner
hanged himself in his cell at Pentridge
without the assistance of a scaffold.
• •
“Rumjung”: When Priminster
Menzies, opening the uranium show,
asked if the discoverer of the field, Jack
White, was in the audience everyone
looked round in vain. They didn’t know
that White, with a few cronies, was listen-
ing-in from the safe distance of Adelaide
River. Why? Some of the said mates,
when the official invitation to the shivoo
arrived, had assured him that to appear
on the platform with the Prime Minister
he’d have to wear a top-hat and tails.
White swore he’d never be caught in a
rigout like that, and departed promptly
for Adelaide River.
• •
Willis, Liberal M.L.A. for Earlwood,
scored the neatest hit in the Sydney
Harbor-tunnel contest:
No doubt the Government’s success with
the College-street tunnel has gone to its
head.
The College-street tunnel is a subway
from Hyde Park to the footpath along-
side St. Mary’s Cathedral, built at no-
body knows whose request, at a very
considerable cost and used by nobody to
speak of.
Queensland
UAdf'mKhantad' ‘pte sSd'tove
removed one of the mam impediments to
an j ncreas j n g degree of self-sufficiency in
? isprod^ n '’tataSoTSSta
for growing cotton in irrigation areas m
Queensland is the Parliamentary Under-
secretary for Agriculture, R. W. Swartz,
member for Darling Downs, who says the
impetus given by the Commonwealth
guarantee m 1951 has been by
the lifting of the guarantee to Ud. per
pound for seed-cotton. This years crop
f rom gQOO acres is expected to yield 2800
bales raw co tton-lint—less than last
y ear ’ s reco rd, but a marked increase is
eX p ec t e d next year. There is a move in
some are as to make cotton the main
crD p
# 9
Things seem to be a trifle back-to-rront
in the socialised-chicken business. At
Canberra last week “Labor” member Deg
Russell criticised the Commonwealth
railways, which are under the supervision
of Liberal Senator McLeay, for “going
into the poultry business at Port Augusta
(5.A.).” Hecffiimsthechookscos^l 03
m one quarter and £lBl5 in another,
• •
“Stromlo”: In 1829 one Burke was
executed in Edinburgh for smothering
people to sell the bodies for dissection,
an( i the Oxford Dictionary defines the
ver b “burke” as “Avoid, smother (pub-
ficity, inquiry); hush-up, suppress (rumor,
book).” It is curious that in Federal
caucus last week the “Doc.’ was bitterly
attacked by W. M. Bourke, the inde-
pendent-minded member for Fawkner,
supported by Ted Peters, the member for
the electorate of Burke, and by Tom
Burke, of Perth. Evatt would probably
have liked to have smothered the three of
them, especially Bill Bourke, who stressed
how closely the “Labor” leader had fol-
lowed the Communist line, and at one
stage described him as “a disgrace to the
party.” Evatt escaped on this occasion
with a warning, after promising to attend
in future on each day of the present sit-
tings. It would be interesting to learn
if A. D Fraser repeated in caucus his
remarks at a union meeting in Goulburn
the previous night. A report of this
quoted Fraser as saying that “Labor”
needed “fearless, honest, positive and
determined leadership.” Fraser also said
that a canker of apathy and cynicism had
eaten into the party and that a clear and
distinctive policy was needed. Some
members were so much at variance with
a majority of the party that there were
virtually two parties meeting in the same
room.
• ©
Although “Labor” disowned Com-
munist help at the Federal election it
seemed to take it as a matter of course
that the second preferences of the Reds
would go to “Labor” candidates. Where,
in a closely-contested electorate, “Labor”
received only four-fifths of the prefer-
ences instead of the lot they spoke bitterly
of the Communist vote putting the
Liberal in. They are still chewing the
problem over and the latest move is a
decision to prepare a “statistical analysis”
of Communist preference votes as an
“exposure of Communist machinations
at elections.”
• «
Denying reports that he had closed
a caucus-meeting early so that members
would not find out while it was in pro-
gress that he planned to reappear at the
Petrov Commission, Dr. Evatt said he
“did not know himself until two-o’clock
that afternoon.” That seems rather
strange. Mr. Sullivan, counsel for Dalziel
and Grundeman in the absence of the
Doc., seems to have known about it
several hours before that. He announced
it to the commission shortly after 10 a.m.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
nnHE cynic might have supposed
that, having acquired new pre-
mises, the N.S.W. Milk Board —which,
after solemnly sitting in judgment on its
own activities, nobly brought in a com-
plete vindication of itself —would have
selected whitewash as the motif of the
building’s external decor. But no. It
is a very distinct blue, and this no doubt
is ip sympathy with the mood of its
customers who pay more for their lacteal
fluid than do the dwellers in any other
State. Also, I rejoice to announce that
the board’s premises are next door to that
of the Royal Antediluvian Order of Buffa-
loes. Not kine, you’ll note. It is highly
apposite, especially that adjective—it so
reflects the board’s methods. —“Zake.”
'
“Metralia”: Author of that essay in
squalor, “A Streetcar Named Desire,”
dished out a plethora of mishaps to
Blanche, its ageing heroine. “You never
let me see you in a strong light” was
the searing indictment with which her last
hope in the marriage-mart gives her the
brush-off. Some U.S. inventor has appar-
ently been mulling this over, decided
Blanche had the right idea, and has now
come up with a device for dimming the
lights in the drawing-rooms of the more
warlike type of spinster. While it’s com-
forting that there seems ever a new hori-
zon to our electric Utopia, this inventor’s
ethics are pretty shaky. Science has
already furnished the unscrupulous
female with deceits enough.
❖ ❖ *X*
“F.S.”: A dreadful thought came to
me at the latest of the 999 modernist
exhibitions I have visited
in Melbourne. Accord-
ing to an old Eastern
legdnd, which was adopted
by Islam and has been
blamed for the wave of
iconoclasm that swept
through the art of Byzan-
tium as well as Islam, the
artist would be required
to give life at the Day of
Judgment to the figures he
had painted on earth. The
legend doesn’t state
whether the artist has to
live with his vivified
images to all eternity ; but,
if not, an amendment
along these lines *is
overdue.
>t* *X* ❖
“Pawang”: A German
scientist who helped to
develop ersatz foods dur-
ing the war has caused
excitement among Mel-
bourne housewives by per-
fecting an eggless meringue
for C.5.1.R.0. Why in heaven they
got him to do that beats me. There
isn’t a war on, >and there is enough
denaturing of decent, wholesome food
going on without an official scientific
body hopping in to help the process.
You can’t get a lemon drink with lemons
in it, nor marmalade, either, and if
there are any eggs in cakes nowadays
why do they have the taste of sawdust?
“The meringues melt in your mouth,”
said one of the laboratory workers ; my
mother used to say the same about her
puddings. Her great achievement was
a roly-poly called “fat rascal.” It had
no milk, eggs or butter in it and no
taste, but it filled you up to bursting.
There was some justification for my
mother —she was economically deter-
mined. There is no justification for
C. devoting its scientific brains
to the denaturing of Australian cooking.
❖ ❖ *
“S.F.”: The name of that old con-
tributor to The Frontiersmans Pocket
Book was F. C. Selous, not “Selvus”
(B. 15/9/’54). He was bora in London
in 1851, went to South Africa at 20 and
made a name for himself as a gold-
prospector, explorer and elephant-hunter,
as well as writing half a dozen books.
He also took part in the Mashona-land
and Matabele wars. Enlisting for War I
(at the age of 63) he landed at Mombasa,
in British East Africa, with the 25th
Royal Fusiliers. After winning the
D. he was killed in action at Kissaki,
and was buried where he fell.
"Take a note on the cuff.”
“W.P.T.”: With the wistaria in bloom
in the beautiful grounds of the Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) Mental Hospital, they’re
thrown open to the public. There are
stalls for the sale of patients’ work,
raffles and so on for funds for comforts
for the patients, and the fete is generally
well patronised. But entrance is through
the big Parramatta Park ; behold, on the
days of the fete the Park Trust mounts
collectors on. the park-gates, who demand
a parking-fee of two-bob from each
motorist. Not a penny of this goes to the
mental hospital fete funds. Motorists
imagine they are contributing to the
fete; when they see the collection-boxes
there they imagine someone is doubling-
up, with the result that little goes into
those boxes. The park is open to
motorists free at all other times. I sug-
“And don't forget to say ‘In shark-infested waters.'"
gest that the Park Trust use the fees
grabbed on this special occasion to erect
a monument to Ned Kelly. He rides
again this time every year at Parramatta.
♦♦♦ . ♦♦♦ ***
“X.S.”: Something new in the way of
compensation cases occurred in the
County Court, Melbourne, when a novice
skier claimed £2OOO from the Victorian
Railways (owners of the Mount Buffalo
Chalet) for a broken wrist incurred when
she fell into a creek on Victoria’s roof
last year. Mitchell, J., expressed concern
that mug skiers should be let loose in
terrain of which they had no know-
ledge, on a machine they didn’t know how
to control, and that nothing had been
done by the commissioners to acquaint
them of the hazards. The girl got £539.
» « * *
“Figaro”: Surely “Operas” underrates
Mr. Antheil’s capacity as a contempor-
ary musician (B. 1/9/’54)? Australian
composers would have little difficulty in
matching his part for an aeroplane-pro-
peller with, perhaps, orchestrations of a
dilapidated Perth train ; but our budding
harmonists have more to compete with
than that. Mr. Antheil’s score also in-
cludes 16 pianos, several electric buzzers
and a pneumatic drill in the percussion.
❖ ❖ «?♦
“Magnoon”: Possibly Leonardo da
Vinci knew nothing of psychology (B.
1/9/’54), but what of it? All great
artists are meticulous observers of their
subject-matter. The same goes for scien-
tists. Modern doctors claim to be able
to diagnose the mental and bodily ills of
a whole hdst of the creations of genius,
from Hamlet to Dickens’s fat boy, so
accurately were the originals transferred
to paper. So the psychologist of the
“Australian Medical Journal” may know
what he is talking about —if psychologists
ever do know what they are talking
about. Sometimes they seem to have a
lot in common with the Angry Penguins
that were bitten by Era Malley.
♦jt &
“Metralia”: The global fuss over pos-
sible smoking hazards could be easily
resolved; are Frenchmen especially
prone to lung-cancer? Their national
smoke, the blue-packeted “Gaulois,”
belches fumes that sear the tonsils and
hit the lungs with the tact of a bull-
dozer.
* ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: Last year’s £3 million
Royal Melbourne Show will be eclipsed
by this year’s, which will be a £5 million
affair, according to secretary H. T. C.
Woodfull. Among innovations promised
will be television, a dry-cleaning depot,
a £30,000 dog-pavilion, a cigarette-manu-
facturing machine and more sideshows.
These things leave me as cold as the meat-
pies and cups of tea which have given me
an annual attack of indigestion for the
last 25 years ; but not so the vast im-
provement on the food-front. There is
to be an ultra-modern restaurant, a
Country Club restaurant and a Chinese
cafe, whose proprietors are importing
two dragons from the home of the
species, with dozens of Chinese lanterns
—not to be eaten, of course, but to be
looked at.
*** ♦♦♦
“Ceg”: Victoria is now definitely “on
the map.” TattersaU’s, for the first time
in its history, will be drawing a consul-
tation daily. Church leaders don’t seem
to be pleased. The preacher at Scots
Church reports that it is not coincidence
that since Tatt.’s came to this State the
number of scroungers begging “loans” of
him has risen suddenly and sharply.
Other evidence of the effect of the lot-
tery: an increase in petty pilfering, bad
debts and begging; the gambling spree
hitting traders —the sum going into
Tatt.’s representing a considerable quan-
tity of unpurchased home-furnishings,
clothing, food and amenities; an unpre-
cedented number of hire-purchase goods
being returned to traders, and an
enormous aggregate of hours being wasted
at the selling-office, often in employers’
time. Said, too, that Melbourne
crowds are becoming irritable, making
the city a good place to avoid on drawing
days—which now means every day.
Can’t write more now on this fascin-
ating topic—have to fill in my appli-
cation for a ticket, and the mail closes
in 10 minutes.
“Muskeen”: When I was in hospital
on the Quai d’Escale at Le Havre in
War I, a blind-cord with a lead sinker
attached was nailed to the wall of our
ward. Each morning every patient who
could walk gave it a swing. I don’t think
there were any real lead-swingers amongst
us, but neither was anyone overanxious
to return to the front line before his
time ; and the general opinion was that
a little practical lead-swinging (B.
15/9/’54) might give us a longer re-
prieve.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Balwyn”: Even the case of Chiang
Kai-shek, cooped up on Formosa with
his Nationalist Army of 400,000 and a
300-plane air force, has a precedent in
history. In the 17th century the island
was the home and refuge of Koxinga, a
Chinese warlord who had valiantly
upheld the cause of the last of the Mings
against the marauding Manchus. This
gent, fled to Formosa with a large army
and a fleet of 3000 junks in 1662, and
cooled his heels there until he made
friends with the invaders of his home-
land —20 years later. Chiang’s been
out for five so far.
ODE TO MISS LEE
“Gipsy Rose Lee, billed as ‘Strip Tease . . .
First Time in Australia—The Real Thing,’
begins operations on October 1.”
O Gipsy Rose, O Gipsy Lee,
Sydney awaits you tipsily !
To mark your Sydney side debut
The town tqkes off its hat to you
As one on whom it can rely
For an appropriate reply.
When Sydney models get a loathing
For traipsing round in others’ clothing
They go on curious excursions
And risk precarious diversions :
How timely for them to rehearse
Your art of modelling in reverse !
Though, as an art-form, Gipsy Rose,
It’s like the Frenchman and his prose :
Every adult, every nipper,
Every day becomes a stripper . . .
Still, if it keeps them occupied.
Why question their artistic pride ?
Yes, keep them busy; keep them
virtuous —
Send me a ticket; I’ll be courteous.
Admire their dances, praise their faces.
Applaud them in the proper places.
Preserve them from the fear that haunts
’em,
The feeling that nobody wants ’em.
And so, Miss Lee, they’ll say some day
“That girl had uplift, in her way’’ ;
A nd as church fetes and sewing-bees
Conclude with afternoon strip-teas
They’ll say “I’m pleased she came to
know us;
She certainly had much to show us!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM
WOMEN AT WORK
On the steel of malice, Mrs. Clack
Sharpens her tongue for a neighbor’s
back
And finds at the fence, her trysting-place,
Sorceress apprentice, grim Miss Grace.
The ritual words soon cast a spell:
“I’m not a woman to talk but well.
In the victim’s image evoked, they stick
Black pins of innuendo, nick
It with hearsay’s rusty edge ; impaled
By expert blades, the subject s nailed
To the wall of circumstance, when who
Should walk, hat-raising, past the two.
Greeted with smiles ? Their latest case,
Unconscious that he lacks a face.
N.S.W.
R.D. MURPHY.


QN Saturday a.m. of Air Force
Week I was having a leisurely shave
prior to moving off to view the show at
Richmond (N.S.W.). Maybe my mind was
full of the tales I’d tell my small nephew ;
all I know is I heard a prolonged roar
packed with memories. In a flash I was
back in the “roaring ’forties”—at least
one squadron of Spitfires ; I could even
pick “Mark IV” in the music of their
engines. Reason told me it could not be,
sense said yes. I tried to scan the sky
from the bathroom-window. The noise
continued, Spitfires clawing their way up
the clouds to do battle. Lather and all,
“ Together ?”
I rushed into the backyard; not a sign
of an aircraft. The noise gradually
abated. Reasoned they must return later,
so got ready and waited. Half an hour
later they came again. Rushed out front
this time, and there were my “Spitties”
—two doughty warriors with a billycart
rolling home Mum’s weekend vegetables,
And 1 live in the Sydney suburb which
recently banned the billycart from the
streets. Billy S.”
“Justin Thyme”: J. E. Webb’s refer-
ence to Ward Lock’s Melbourne mana-
ger, Mr. Steele (B. 1/9/’54), revived
interesting memories of that gentle-
man. A typical Englishman of his day,
on his frequent business trips to Sydney
Steele never failed to spend an evening
at our home in Stanmore ; my dad, a
bookseller, was a pretty good customer of
Ward Lock’s. On one visit Steele
had that day received Ethel Turner’s
manuscript of Seven Little Australians;
we spent the entire evening reading it.
I was then a Sydney High student,
and was given the honor of reading
it through again next day, to check
spelling and punctuation a quite
unnecessary precaution. I must have
satisfied Steele, for on a later visit he
handed me George Giffen’s With Bat and
Ball in Australia.. My main task was to
check George’s statistics and averages,
for the great cricketer’s arithmetic was
not his strong point.
“Capricorn”: For sentimental reasons,
our new Theatre Trust should be
launched with a gala performance of
“Maid of the Mountains.”
♦♦♦ *> ❖
“Grad”: Next to the Rockefellers and
Nuffields, radio-advertisers would seem
to stand close in the philanthropic ranks.
Yeah? Friend of mine sent in the right
answer to a recent radio-quiz; it
appeared that his labors and ingenuity
had reaped their reward when he re-
ceived in reply congratulatory letters on
his wisdom, three £lO purchasing orders
and three tickets to the flicks. To a 19-
year-old this was real oil —till he found
that his orders could be used only to
help him buy a washing-machine, a frig,
or a radiogram. Since at his time of life
he had no use for these engineering
marvels, he consoled himself with the
thought of doing his girl proud on the
tickets. Here again commercialism
reared its avid head. Tickets were for
the dress-circle (not lounge); all avail-
able on the one day, Monday ; and avail-
able then for the morning session only.
Net result is that the winner is off radio-
quizzes for life.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”; On war souvenirs. I refer to
my war —the one described on one of
my medals as “The Great War for
Civilisation, 1914-1919.” For 34 years
now our fire has been poked with a vil-
lainous-looking German bayonet bearing
the words “Mundlos and Co., Magde-
burg.” I came across it near Le Cateau,
about the time of the armistice. Things
were in a state of flux; for two days I
humped it, till I came across a field post-
office, Wrapping the bayonet round with
grass, I tore the tail of my grey-flannel
shirt into strips and bound them care-
fully, making a soft, bulky parcel; then
addressed it home to Australia with
indelible-pencil and marked the pack-
age “O.A.S. —No stamps available.” It
turned up all right. That sticker and a
fuse-cap, complete with Turkish figuring,
from old “Beachy Hill,” which 1 picked
up at Anzac, form the two items in my
war-museum. I know the fuse-cap is
harmless—l went to some pains to dodge
the shrapnel from the shell when it burst,
t
“Spokeshave”: Despite “Wavy N.” (B
15/9/’54), I stick to “philately” as the
word to describe matchbox-label col-
lecting, According to my dictionary,
the word covers various manifestations of
the collecting lunacy, from the study and
collecting of labels, stamped envelopes,
wrappers and stamp-collecting, and
comes from the Greek philo (fond) and
ateleia (exemption from tax). The last
root has obvious reference to the fact
that the true philatelist never buys un-
used stamps or labels, any more than the
connoisseur of antique furniture buys a
chair or table unless it has the antique-
"Tinea!"
dealer’s trade-mark on it, even if all that
remains of the original article is one bit
of worm-eaten timber.
“Mullum”: Stamps, matchbox-labels
or Namatjiras—the collecting-bug grips
us all. It starts when young, as a glance
through a boy’s pockets will show. It
continues throughout our lifetime,
although the objects may change; I
still treasure a tram-ticket issued in 1941,
solely because its number, 55555, will
make any crib-player envious. Look at
the bookcase in any home and ask when
this or that volume was last read. In the
garage you will find a baby’s cot, or a
broken chair, which “we’ll never use, but
it seemed too good to put in the fire.”
If this is written more in sorrow than in
anger, it is because I have just moved
to another town and much of my collec-
tion had to be left behind. Fortunately,
the people who moved out of my new
home left things behind, too. If any one
is doing some cleaning-out, I have two
pieces of garden-hose and an axe-head
to swap.
% ❖
“Metralia”: A few M.P.s are suggest-
ing that Australian TV be not only
still further postponed—already far
longer than in any similar nation —but
that it should now be postponed for ever
and ever. One reason for this Stone Age
policy is curious: “TV could form an
extension of the press.” Quite so.
That public grievances might get an even
more thorough airing is, of course, un-
thinkable, It’s notable that TV hear-
ings of court-proceedings stoked U.S.
citizens into the biggest-ever swabbing-
out of graft in high places,
♦+♦ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”; Bow-ties fashioned from
service-ribbons (B. 1/9/’54) strike too
variegated a note for most fading old
soldiers, but some 30 years ago I could'
be persuaded to sport a tie, bow, plain,
on special occasions. Recently I arrayed
myself in one of the quietest of them —a
natty royal-blue, silver-flecked number —
but before parading publicly I sounded
my nearest female relative regarding its
effect on my person. “It makes you look
more of a shrimp than you actually are,”
she said bluntly. Abashed, I reflected
that double-breasted suits undoubtedly
emphasise a short man’s shortness, but I
failed to follow the reasoning that bow-
ties have similar consequence. On second
thoughts, though, you never see those
discerning, if diminutive, precentors in
modish men’s wear, crack jockeys, fes-
tooning their throats with the things.
♦♦♦ ***
“H.A.L.”; Stated in B. 1/9/’54 that the
Sturt statue is on the east side of Victoria-
square, Adelaide, and the Stuart one on
the west. Sorry, it’s the other way
round; which seems a good opportunity
to mention that South Australia has a
very live Historical Memorials Section of
the Royal Geographical Society. Among
other activities, it has £431 still in hand
for memorials to John McDouall Stuart,
some of which will go towards the cost
of a memorial being built at Port Dar-
win, and £425 for further memorials to
Matthew Flinders. Under discussion are
proposals to erect a cairn to the memory
of the 27 men, women and children, crew
and passengers of the brigantine Maria,
massacred by the Milmenjari tribe of
aborigines near the Murray mouth in
1842 ; a memorial column to Alexander
Tolmer, who organised the Overland
Gold Escort while Commissioner of
Police in 1852, and a cairn on the spot
at American River, Kangaroo Island,
where Captain Pendleton, of the Ameri-
can brig Union, built a schooner in 1803.
❖ ♦> ❖
“J J.A,”: Add another word that seems
gaining respectability—“a bit of fluff,”
meaning a female offsider that some men
cart around. Never heard it in the higher
social circles until the other Sunday,
when the preacher used the term several
times in his sermon to denote the Delilahs
that snare married men.
“C.L.”; Another of the few remaining
historic buildings of early Brisbane has
been demolished to make way for a
modern five-story. It stood on the corner
of George-street and Charlotte-street, and
its original framework dated back to 1851,
when it was occupied by the Brisbane
“Courier.” Later, it became successively
a residential, the headquarters of the
Johnsonian Club, the Elizabeth Kenny
clinic and, lastly, a home for veterans of
the South African War, The interior was
lined with maple and cedar.
“Annabelle”: The coming Tests re-
mind me of how I heard the result of
the final match in the last Tests. En
route to Norway, we stood on the rail-
way-station at Newcastle-on-Tyne, wait-
ing for the boat-train; our rucksacks,
with the Aussie flag sewn on, at our feet.
I felt a touch on my shoulder and looked
up into the grinning face of a railway
official, greeting me with, “Good-day,
Aussie. Heard the score?”
*Z*
“C. 8.”: The Federal Government is
in error in refusing the request of the
Victorian R.S.L. to commission a leading
Australian ex-serviceman artist to paint
a portrait of Sir Thomas Blarney from a
photograph, assisted by his field-marshal’s
uniform and other portraits, John Long-
staff was commissioned to paint Alfred
Felton for the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne ; his only guide was a small snap
of the chemist sitting on a chair in his
garden, yet it is the best portrait Long-
staff painted. A good artist can bring the
same skill to the copying of a photo as
he brings to Nature. Some of Titian’s
finest portraits were of persons he never
saw. If he got a commission to paint
some notable in a foreign land he didn’t
waste six months travelling hundreds of
miles by coach; he simply commissioned
some competent local artist to get a like-
ness and copied that, but put into his
copy all his own genius. To get a mere
likeness is easy—hundreds of academi-
cians can do it.
CAUSE AND EFFECT
“For sale. Fishing-rod, dinner-suit.”—“s. M.
Herald” advt.
A lowly bard, it’s natural that I
With penury have often come to grips;
And consequent the need to pacify
Aggressive creditors, to raise some
chips, •
Yet though (as well I knew) ’twould be
Alleviation temporary
I always could reline my pocket —
My trusty tripewriter was there;
And, from experience well aware.
At Uncle’s I could always hock it.
Uncle, I don’t doubt, would have
coughed-up more
If I had put my golf-clubs on the ice.
But who was I to put my work before
A game ? I couldn’t make that
sacrifice.
And as for selling them straight out —
Not if I’d gone right up the spout!
And so I can’t make out this chappie.
What drove him to that last resort.
This fisherman who’d loved his sport ?
The circs, must have been most
unhappy !
An angler of unusual habits, he,
Who, after seeking blackfish, or the
trout,
Would deck himself in soup-and-fish, and
be
A social lion and a gadabout.
Was it because they wouldn’t bite
(A cursed habit of fish) despite
He used the best of bait and hurley.
That made him sell his split-cane rod ?
Or had he got fed-up, this bod.,
With crawling out of bed so early ?
As for his boiled-shirt outfit, it could be
Too many dances turned out to be
flops.
Perhaps his taste had altered by degree,
And now he likes the other sort of hops.
More likely, though, ’twould indicate
That he’s acquired a long-haired mate
Who’s either made his wad look very
sickly.
Or laid down that to fish and dance
Comprises gross extravagance,
And that such pastimes must be
scotched —and quickly.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


BOOK NOW TO FLY
TAA
“pressurised”
VISCOUNTS
VISCOUNT SCHEDULES COMMENCE IN NOVEMBER
NNP 50
AuMmoo,
A Mens/)
m
BOOKINGS:
TAA offices
all States.
PERSONAL ITEMS
A Melbourne Royal Show judge whose
family has farmed the same land since
Cceur de Lion ruled over England is John
Cumber, who, when last seen, was casting
a discriminating eye over Shorthorns. His
farm is in Theale, Berkshire, and he
claims the soil is as fertile as when his
ancestors first farmed it. An expert in
sheep, pigs, Clydesdales and fat cattle,
he is an exporter to half the world,
• •
Caught in a brief spell in a heavy
A.B.C. singing programme, Anton
Dermota, tenor from Vienna, In 1936,
conductor Bruno Walter, doing a bit of
talent-scouting, heard Dermota sing in the
vale of waltzes ; selected him immediately
to appear as guest-artist at the Salzburg
Festival that year with the Vienna State
Opera,. More than satisfied with his
choice, Walter then invited Dermota to
sing the role of Lenski in “Eugene
Onegin” at the Opera, with Lotte Leh-
mann. The part was found to be too low
TENOR
for the tenor; so the great conductor
transposed everything in the opera to suit.
This transposed score is still being used
in Vienna. Since then Dermota has sung
in all the leading opera-houses of Europe
and South America. Vienna, according
to the visitor, Russians regardless, is back
to taws again.
• e
A former R.A.A.F. pilot is now a
missionary in Borneo, and still flies
over areas he once visited when on a
different mission. He is Bruce Morton,
in Melbourne to attend the meeting
of the Borneo Evangelical Mission
in Scots Church Hall. The B.E.M.
has been in Sarawak, the one-time
domain of the “White Rajah ’ Brooke,
since 1929, when three young Vic-
torians set out to Christianise the tribes
of inland Dyaks whom Brooke once
led against one another when he was
putting down headhunting in his king-
dom. It now has 16 airstrips which
Morton uses —nine of them laid down by
Christian natives. His assistant, C. T.
Robinson, is a former R.A.F. pilot.
• •
Generations of Westralian schoolboys
received their primary education from
A. E. J. McGregor, just notched 90
in Perth. Taught to teach at the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Training College, when it was
housed in an upper story of the old
Fort Street School, McGregor was one
of the contingent of N.S.W. teachers who
reinforced the Westralian Depaitment in
the 1890’s. He was headmaster of
the Highgate (Perth) State School for
several years before he retired in 1926,
after 30 years’ Westralian teaching. He
also put in years of service as councillor
and vice-president of the Perth Literary
Institute.
Professor Walter Murdoch celebrated
his 80th birthday by giving a “Guest of
Honor” broadcast over the A.B.C. net-
work and his twelve-minute spoken essay
was as polished, lively and endearing to
his admirers as any he has written.
Murdoch was born in Aberdeenshire, the
son of a Free Church minister, and was
six when he arrived in Australia to be
educated at Scotch College and the Uni-
versity of Melbourne. He won first-class
honors in logic and philosophy and, start-
ing as a schoolteacher, became a lecturer
in English literature at Melbourne
University. There followed a long
sojourn in academic cloisters in Perth,
during which he made himself one of the
best-known and -loved writers in Aus-
tralia with a raft of books, newspaper
articles, essays and broadcasts. Chan-
cellor of the University of W.A. from
1912 to 1939, he is now in active retire-
ment.
• •
“Fitz”: The Bulletin’s old friend Hugh
McCrae will be 78 on Monday, October 4.
Along with Will Ogilvie, Arthur Bayldon, Will
Lawson and Mary Gilmore, he is one of the
paper’s last links with the ’nineties. Son of
George Gordon McCrae, “the father of Vic-
torian poetry” and friend of Marcus Clarke,
Gordon and Kendall, Hugh was bom at
Hawthorn (Vic.); articled to an architect, where
he is said to have learnt nothing but how to
make tea. He decided on art and contributed
humorous drawings to The Bulletin, Mel-
bourne “Punch” and New York “Puck. While
in America Hugh met Pat Sullivan, the creator
of “Felix the Cat,” who wanted him to do
the drawings; Hugh declined and lost his only
chance of making a fortune. .
For a time he was on the stage and acted in
Melbourne and New York; he also played
Adam Lindsay Gordon in a silent film based
on the poet’s life. Returning to the Inky Way
he enriched many a journal with his fantastic
drawings and distinctive verse and prose. He
was a dramatic critic for Melbourne ‘ Punch,
and joint-editor, with Ernest Watt, of The
New Triad.” Guy Howarth has told how
Hugh “kept the magazine going for a year,
successfully excluding Watt's absorbing interest,
cremation, until the last number.” .
McCrae has published a dozen books of high
merit. They include volumes of his rich ana
lovely poetry, the intimate Georgiana’s Journal
and My Father and My Father’s Friends, the
diverting Du Poissey Anecdotes, a collection
called Story Book Only, and a musical play.
The Ship of Heaven. Some of the books
he illustrated himself. A lot of his best writing
has gone into the composition of sparkling
letters to his many friends; they should be
collected and published before they are lost.
A fine-looking.fellow, 6ft. tall and with an
erect carriage, he is probably themosi via
and robust person to bound up The Bulletin
stairs. Hugh has a tremendous laugh, a well-
developed sense of humor, and is the pattern
of courtesy. He likes to play at make-believe.
His garden rake he calls Rochester, the house-
hold broom Van Tromp. His three beautiful
daughters—Huntly, Mahdi and Rose—all drew
for The Bulletin.
• •
An Oxford graduate, Desmond Harold
Parsons, whose calculations were inter-
rupted by War II (R.A.F.), has been
appointed senior lecturer in mathematics
at the Westralian University. First lec-
tured at University College, Swansea;
more recently junior research-fellow and
lecturer in maths, at Exeteu College,
Oxford.
• •
“Pip Tok”: John Farnsworth Hall,
conductor of the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra, swaps jobs with Rudolph
Pekarek, conductor of the Westralian
orchestra. Looking more like a business
executive than a musician, Hall has had
wide experience of orchestral work. He
commenced his musical studies in Sydney
under Cyril Monk and Henri Verbrugg-
hen, who made him leader of the N.S.W.
State Orchestra. Taking his fiddle to
London, he studied under Albert Sandler
and played under conductors like Bruno
Walter, Sir Thomas Beecham, Adrian
Boult, Barbirolli and Hamilton Harty. A
remembered performance was at the
Three Choirs’ Festival, conducted by
Elgar. He joined the A.B.C. on return
to Australia and was leader and deputy-
conductor of the N.S.W. Symphony
Orchestra till he moved to Queensland
in 1947.
The South Australian Wheat and
Woolgrowers’ Association has engaged
a Perth consulting engineer, A. E.
Stephenson, to design 'a scheme for a co-
operative bulk-handling company in the
State. He has so far given cost estimates,
and will do further detailed work on the
draft of an enabling Act to go before the
S.A. Parliament. If all goes well,
Stephenson will set-to, at an estimated
cost of more than £4 million. Born at
Northam (W.A.) 47 years ago, Stephen-
son has little to learn about the mechani-
cal side of bulk-handling of wheat. He
graduated in engineering at the Westra-
lian University, worked six years in an
oil-company, then joined the Westralian
Co-operative Bulk-handling Co., in 1937,
to take a leading hand in extending bulk-
handling throughout Westralia. In War
11, consulting-engineer to the Australian
Wheat Board, he dealt with wheat-storage
problems both in Westralia and Eastern
States.
• •
“Uramao”: The first Easterfield
Medal —a memorial to the late Sir
Thomas Easterfield, first Professor of
Chemistry at Victoria University College,
Wellington (N.Z.)— goes to John Rogers,
M.Sc., senior lecturer in mineral engineer-
ing at the School of Mines and Metal-
lurgy, Otago University. Rogers was in
Melbourne between 1941-46 with
C.5.1.R.0., after Which a Nuffield
scholarship and a Fulbright grant took
him to Canada and the U.S.
• •
“Melbn”: Along with the verandas,
another historic relic has gone west in
Melbourne—the two green Viking prows
which the Waterside Workers’ Federation
selected for their symbol and stuck on the
fagade of their Flinders-street h.q. When
it was announced that the facade was to
be remodelled, Robin Boyd, who writes
the architectural notes for Melbourne
“Herald,” pointed out that the copper
noses were one of the few examples left of
the work of Robert Haddon, a leading
architect of an earlier generation, and that
they should be preserved. A few days later
he found one of the prows dumped in
his garage drive. He managed to shift
it to the garden, where thieves eventually
stripped it of its copper. The remnants
were buried in the backyard. Boyd is
a member of the family which produced
artist Penleigh Boyd, potter Merrick
Boyd, novelist Martin Boyd and painter
Arthur, as well as a host of other
craftsmen.
L. H. HICKS, big in Adelaide busi-
ness, senior partner of S. C. Ward
and Co., sharebrokers, member of
Adelaide ’Change for 34 years,
recently elected president of it.
A theology degree from a noted
German University goes to Enzedder
Rev H. H. Rex, M.A., Professor of
Church History at Knox College,
Dunedin, a Scotchbyterian institution. His
thesis on the ethics of St. Paul won him
a doctorate from the University of
Tubingen.
Hereunder Captain John Armstrong,
R.A.N.; inevitably “Black Jack” to all
hands, from hair, cliffy eyebrows and a
dark general weathering burned-in over
40 years of naval service. Armstrong
had possibly more to do with cruiser
Australia in her war than any other
officer —battle-cruiser Australia was his
first ship, back in 1918 ; at the outbreak
of War II he was her namesake’s
GUNNER
commander (2 i/c), responsible to
the captain for the seamanship and
general fighting efficiency of her 600-
odd officers and men; was one of a
dozen hands who went overboard on
lines into 50ft. waves to rescue the crew
of a Sunderland forced-down off the
Scottish coast; and in 1944 took com-
mand of the cruiser, to win D.S.O. and
the U.S. Navy Cross (second-highest
American gallantry award) for his
handling of the ship in Lingayen Gulf
and at the Allied landing on Luzon. He’d
earlier had considerable experience of
landings —captain of the assault-landing-
ships Manoora and Westralia. A
specialist in gunnery, a few years back
he was sent to London as inter-service
technical-officer on the staff of the Aus-
tralian defence representative. He goes
now to Washington, liaising in guided-
missile matters, and, not long after his
old ship, is due to go off the active list
early next year.
• •
Into the Silence :
At Geelong West (Vic.), John Percy Hamilton
Baxter, one of the city’s best-known philan-
thropists. Baxter House, the recently-opened
maternity wing of the Geelong Hospital, is one
of his many benefactions. From a small real-
estate agency he expanded to become director
of several companies and chairman of Federal
Woollen Mill, the Geelong Gas Company and
Regent Theatre Pty., Ltd.
In Perth, at 46, Richard Simonsen, automotive
engineer, and a one-time director of Pert
Rotary. He was State amateur champion
wrestler from 1926 to 1930, a War II Digger
who ended up lieutenant-colonel commanding
the 3rd Company of the A.E.M.E., and for
many years a hard worker for the Flying Doctor
Service.
At 95, at Coonamble (N.S.W.), John Landers,
who till his retirement less than eight years ago
was for more than 40 years active m almost
every public institution in that town and district.
A first councillor of Wingadee Shire, in ms 41
years on that body he was 23 times president,
served also as chairman and member ot IM
Pastures Protection Board, the c °
show, hospital and St. Vincent de Paul Society,
and was a member of the Repatriation Com
mittee after both World Wars.
At Blenheim (N.Z.), L C. Chaytor,
of a family of distinguished soldiers. Int War
he was with an Enzed machine-gun company
at Gallipoli and in France, was S as * ed >
War II he commanded the 3rd N.Z. mount
brigade. Pioneer of the linen-flax industry
the" Dominion, he introduced fbe fct pedigr
Lvral Crown seed from the Sandringham R°y
Linen research-station. His eldest broker the
late Major-General Sir Edward Chaytor ccm
manded the N.Z. and Austrahan orces^.n
Palestine; another was the late Lieut
Colonel Alfred Chaytor, K.C. A tnn >
Lieutenant-Colonel DArcy Chaytor, i n
retired, while the fourth. Colonel J°hn Cnay ,
is a graduate of Woolwich and served in b
World Wars.
At 56, in Melbourne, Dr. Mark Ashkenasy,
one of Melbourne’s leading surgeom, some «
whose operations have been named after
With G Johnston, of Preston, he and
new blood-transfusion machine, the J
manufacturing rights of which were e
the Army.


THE PRIVATE EYE


ABORIGINALITIES
IT was a lovely, peaceful spot to camp
in—until three youths arrived on
motorbikes. From the ridge old
Chick watched them assemble fire-
arms, and groaned. “Twenty-two rifles,
1 bet a quid,” he opined bitterly. “They’ll
turn these valleys into a madhouse, you
see. Everything in fur or feathers that
flies, hops, walks, runs, perches or squats
they’ll shoot at. Bullets whistlin’ every-
where —a man’ll be lucky if he don’t
cop one.” Five minutes later the shooting
started, and the adjacent valley sounded
as if a miniature war was in progress.
Shortly after two figures appeared over
the ridge and bullets began whistling and
ricocheting overhead. Chick endured it
till the couple were within voice-range,
then he opened out on them. One of the
pair had got close enough to answer
back by the time the old-’un ran out of
wind. “Anyhow, what’ve you got to sing
out about?” demanded the youth. “We’re
not shooting at you.” “No,” old Chick
roared back. “That's just the trouble ; if
you were, a man’d have nothin’ to worry
about.” —“Macquarie.”
* * * *
“Bass”; Where has “Swelpme” been
hiding that he didn’t know ants forage in
the dark? Most of the species that
plague humans are nocturnal, particu-
larly those that work in battalions, like
“ Glutton , ain't he?”
the South American swarms which con-
verge on villages and eat everything that’s
uncovered, including rats and mice. We
haven’t anything as bad as that in Aus-
tralia, though we’ve ants that could kill
almost any animal if they worked as a
team. It wouldn’t take many sergeant-
ants —lin. long and with a fiery sting—
to drive a horse or a human crazy, and
there are others with a sting as bad. For-
tunately, sergeants don’t attack in force,
like that imported pest the Argentine-
ant. I know of one Westralian type that
adopts this tactic, but it hasn’t a sting.
It’s an inch-long, honey-colored ant that
invades cupboards. It can easily pierce
those transparent jam-covers, and I’ve
known a pound of
jam to vanish in a
night. These ants
never venture out in
daylight.
“X.Q.X.”: It was
in Syria I discovered
that ants work at
night (B. 1/9/’54).
One night I spread
my roll on a couple
of armfuls of nearly
ripe wheat gathered
from a near-by Wog
field. I was awakened
an hour or so later
by the sound of
something rustl in g
under my ground-
sheet. I found a
swarm of ants
gathering the grain
from my “mattress.”
As none of them
had worried me, and
the ground was very
hard, I decided to
risk it, and lay down
again. By morning
ants and grain had
disappeared.
* *
“Mackville”: As
well as “shanghai”
the etymology of
other words in the
schoolboy vocabu-
lary remains a mystery. Why, for
instance, should dry, fibrous roots
that could be smoked with no injury
but much pretence of pleasure be uni-
versally known as “jigger”? And that
parasitic vine which hangs like tangles of
green string on the foliage of tea-tree
saplings, why is it called “snotgossalin”?
And what truthful bloke ever heard a kid
pronounce a bird’s-egg “addled” when
he couldn’t blow it? It is—or always was
—“kiggidy.”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: That “old-time recluse”
who intended to retire when he reached
pension-age (B. 11/8/’54) wasn’t made of
the same stuff as Ted. He claimed to be
71, but I always doubted it —nobody
could have got so gnarled and leatherlike
in that time. Nevertheless, the old-’un
could carry the hod with the best of the
middle-aged hoddies, and much better
than any of the young fellows. One
lunch-time he confided to me his plans
for the future: “I’m goin’ to buy a block
of land up a river somewhere, or beside
a quiet bay; don’t matter much where as
long as there’s fish to be caught and
plenty of rock on the ground. I’ll quarry
the stone out and build a house for me-
self, then I’ll make a garden. After that
I’ll be set. I’ll have no rent to pay, and
I can sell me surplus vegetables and fish ;
that’ll bring in enough to pay for a
bender every, say, eight or nine weeks,
Yair, I reckon that’d be just the way I’d
like to spend what the paper-blokes call
‘the twilight of me days.’ ” “When are
you leaving, Ted?” I asked. “Leaving?”
he repeated, looking puzzled. “I never
said I was going to leave. I was only
tellin’ you what I’m going to do when
I get too old to work!”
* * * *
“Sackfair”; The fellow who “gets the
crow” has long been, in bush-parlance,
one who gets the rough end of the stick,
But a stunt worked-up by a Sydney radio-
“Call me a scab. Would you!”
station has changed things somewhat —
in at least two cases, anyway. Taronga
Park Zoo having one albino crow, a
request for a white mate for him was
broadcast; the reward jackpotted a fiver
a day until it reached £385. Then two
claimants sent Kellies in the same week.
One was declared a cinnamon, therefore
ineligible ; the other, sent by plane from
N.Q., earned the grazier who sent it the
reward. The owner of the cinnamon re-
ceived £lOO as consolation-prize. Two
crows bringing £4B5 —stone the crows!
Good Lord, what am I saying? Stone
’em —at that price!
* * * *
“Bellfield”; If Australian porcupines
had the same gastronomic tastes as their
African namesakes there would have
been no need for the recent Abo.-column
symposium on the best way of extract-
ing a broken axe-handle from the head of
one. Cecil Mann, in “Nature’s Nicer
Novelties” (B. 8/9/’54), quotes Devoe as
claiming that African porcupines will eat
an axe-handle just to relish the sweat-
salt soaked into it, so it would simply
mean sprinkling salt in the eye of the
axe-head and leaving it out in the bush.
The overseas spiky bloke seems to have
a penchant for solid tucker. John
Hunter, big-game hunter and author,
records that African porcupines are very
fond of ivory. This extravagant taste, he
claims, is the reason why ivory from dead
elephants is never found ; and, a species
of native borer being extremely partial
to elephants’ bon'es, the remains of de-
funct jumbos are disposed of in remark-
ably short time. The gluttony of these
two epicures, the author be-
lieves, is responsible for the
once - popular supposition
that wounded elephants con-
trived to make their way to
a secret valley before giving
up the ghost.
* * *
“G.”: Another set of
chimes that have copped their
share of reviling (B. 15/9/’54)
are those of the Custom
House in Newcastle (N.S.W.).
When they were installed
about 75 years ago the press
hailed them, with just the
right amount of patronage, as “likely to
prove a boon to the poorer classes
these miserable wretches apparently hav-
ing no other means of knowing the time.
Though the chimes didn’t change their
tune, the Fourth Estate did a very few
weeks later, when it made acid mention of
the “dismal and funereal tolling” which
issued from the Custom House at every
hour. This gloomy sound, it was alleged,
caused many of the more nervous citizens
so much alarm that they immediately in-
quired as to who had passed away, and
on being reassured “immediately rushed
to restore themselves with a nobbier or
two.” Their descendants are apparently
of sterner stuff, as they manage to listen
(traffic noises permitting) to the chimes
quite unmoved, although heredity
being the queer thing it is they have
retained in full measure their ancestors’
habit of taking the consoling nobbier
with undiminished celerity.
“Saaedi”: Although I’ve stalked scores
of whip-birds never have I succeeded in
forcing one to take flight. They prefer
the seclusion of tangled undergrowth to
the freedom of open air even when hard-
pressed. Enjoying acute hearing, they
move off slowly when approached. Few
birds are harder to keep under observa-
tion, despite their startling vocal per-
formances, I’ve known whip-birds when
being followed to take occasional up-
ward leaps in the undergrowth, appar-
ently the better to observe their pur-
suers. The “Chu! Chu!” call, which fre-
quently follows the whip-crack, is usually
the female’s response to the male, and
not a continuation of the call, as the
perfect synchronisation would lead one
to imagine.
DAWN AT MELVILLE ISLAND
The winds from the south-east are sighing
along
Where the blooms of the wattles are heavy with
dew.
Each morning the warblers chirrup their s<sng
To my camp on the sand-dunes of Jiberabu.
’Tis dawn, and the mists float along on the
breeze,
And I hear the loud honking of birds far away
Fy the swamp-reeds of Tulu and low o’er the
trees
The pied-geese come drifting to cross the wide
bay.
I watch from my campfire behind a brush
wind-break
The chestnut-rail creeping amidst the tall reeds
Where the “jackneas” call to the sullen corn-
crake
And the peaceful doves feed on the merbungga
seeds.
By the crimson-hued blooms of the tail kapok-
trees
A sea-eagle searches the onrushing foam
Where a beach-curlew blends with the jade-
colored seas,
And the ghost-crabs are digging their moist sandy
home.
The blackmen are stirring, as hunters they’re
walking
Amidst the fine spindrift with light easy tread,
And watching them go I am roused by the
squarking
Of white cockatoos flying low overhead.
1 follow their flight where the paper-barks rear
Their tall heads to catch the sun’s rays coming
through
The fog-banks o’er Perrio, and ever I hear
The ‘surging white breakers of Jiberabu.
N.T.
W.E. HARNEY.
'Bidgee in Spring
I’M camped in a belt of redgum,
a few miles down the ’Bidgee
from Narrandera. Drove slowly from
Darlington Point, so as not to miss the
colors'of the parrots with the afternoon
sun full on them. Galahs fed by the
roadside, giving only a cursory glance at
the ute. Not so tame the ringnecks fos-
sicking near the fence —as I rolled to a
crawl beside them there was a flash of
rich blue and they were gone. Sandy
ridges with pine on them meant watch
out for blue-bonnets, and there they
were; not so vivid as most parrots but,
under the glasses, one of the most ex-
quisitely marked of the clan. A pair of
yellow rosellas, relaxed on a high branch,
remind a bloke that he’s back where all
water runs west; and the plentiful little
red-rump with the musical call and the
homely missus adds that distinctive
scarlet signal to the landscape as he takes
off. I still think the common eastern
rosella the pick of the bunch; in spring
plumage it is gorgeous, and the scientific
fellow who added the descriptive tag or
eximius —excellent —to its family label
knew what he was doing. Beside me
camp white cockatoos are wheeling, a
brown ball of fluff which will some day
be a spurwing plover is racing after Mum
and Dad, the echongs are making me
timber ring, and a family of babblers am
discussing domestic matters in a manner
befitting their name. Add the maggies
and thrushes that join to provide ae
morning chorus, then the smoke of Mui-
ray pine and redgum, toss in the smei
frying bacon and you have a mixu
guaranteed to drag “Old-timer out of me
snuggest pub in England.
WIPPEGONG.


T 3 E-READING the saga of life
at Shingle Hut brings to mind the
standard pattern of a visitor’s arrival at
almost any isolated homestead in those
days. First, the wild chorus of dogs ;
then the kids, racing round the house to
peer at the approaching vehicle, until it
was about 10yds, away, when they bolted
for cover, whence they peeped round
corners at the visitor, giggled, and pushed
one another into the open. The sound
of teacups and an awareness of hot but-
tered scones generally brought them into
the open, but still as ready to bolt as any
young colt being handled for the first
lime. Usually, it wasn’t long before the
once-dreaded stranger was being pressed
by them to inspect everything from a
batch of poddy-lambs to the newest foal,
and so on till it was time to rush for
the gate and wave after the departing
guest until he was only a cloud of dust
down the track and —though he didn’t
know it —a rich source of material for
the most gifted mimic in the band for
the rest of the afternoon. —“Lemuel G.”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: If “Flight” watches
a butcher-bird closely he’ll find that it
does spike its meat on broken branches
(B- 1/9/’54), but it does this to assist in
tearing it to pieces, not to conserve it. It
would be gone before he was 50 yards
away.
* * * *
5.4 E.”: My heart bleeds for poor
D. Rover,” who could only have his
“pint-pot wash” from water poured into
his hollowed hands. A “dry camp” like
that would have seemed the height of
luxury in the droving outfit in which I
once ventured into the Flinders River
basalt country (N.Q.). Arrived at the sub-
artesian well which was our objective,
we found the mill broken down, and
the only water a few gallons of some
highly concentrated greenish-brown slush
in the bottom of the troughing. This was
immediately ladled into a couple of
drums, to serve us while we repaired the
mill. For a week, each man received a
pint a day of the vilely smelling muck
for washing, with the restriction that it
must be used in a dish, and without soap,
so that the dogs could drink it after-
wards. Drinking allowance for the men
was a further two pints a day each of this
semi-liquid compound, in which tea-
leaves were stewed and stewed —but even
after that treatment its rich natural frag-
rance triumphed over the Broken Pekoe,
and could still be smelled at arm’s-
length. It even dimmed the aroma of the
dead Toos and emus lying around the
bore,
* * * *
“Brick E.”: The new owner who
bought the block where the old weather-
board place had been burnt down began
to dig out foundations, came on the old
water-service and found it in amazingly
good condition, and so well worth
saving. To his surprise, the pipe
ran towards the back fence, not the
street; even more surprisingly it zigzagged
across and back and across and back
again on the block, so that the finally
uncovered pipe looked like the track
of a New Year reveller. “What could
have made them bend their pipes like
that?” asked the owner. Though I
remembered the place being built, for a
long time my memory wouldn’t delve out
the answer; then it came: There was no
water-main along the front street in
those days, so they had brought the ser-
vice down from the back ; the block had
been dotted with very thick clumps of
blackthorn, and then, as now, plumbers
went for the line of least resistance.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“1.W.”: Natives in the Yanchep (W.A.)
district had a very simple but effective
method of disposing of their dead: they
just dropped the body through a small
opening in the top of one of the numer-
ous caves for which the place is noted.
Now the grisly relics vie with the stalac-
tite formations in capturing the interest
of visitors.
* * * *
“Ngaire”; Distinction for producing
the largest egg in relation to its size
must go to the Maori kiwi. Egg weighs
from 14oz. to 16oz. and is from 4in. to
sin. long. Incidentally, only two of these
fowl are outside Maoriland —one in the
New York Zoo and one in Regent’s Park
“Half the time, Doc., I dunno whether I'm on me head or me heels.”
Zoo. The London bird is valued at
£lOOO according to their last inventory.
“Farm Boy”: My brother has his own
method of selecting the best pup in a
litter —a method that has proved its worth
over the years: he simply kidnaps the
pups, plants them and leaves the rest to
Ma’s instinct. The one she selects first to
take back to bunk is his choice,
* * * *
“P.K.”: Based on widespread but-
tresses —flanges to timber-cutters —that
merge to form the tree-trunk some 18ft.
above; thence a straight 60ft, to first
limb and a round Bft. girth—that is the
red crowsfoot-elm, most perfectly bal-
anced tree in the N.Q. scrub. Three
springboard lifts up the flange put you
in position to cut the front scarf. With
only 2in. of wood separating scarfs, the
tree will still stand, v Nature has offset
any slight lean of trunk with heavier
limbs on the opposite side. Pinch out a
bit more wood, and without a warning
crack it is on the way —fast. If in the
right direction, and there’s no big timber
in front, you can stay on the spring-
board, but if it “comes back” it is wise
to depart pronto—for the tree, when
halfway down, may shoot back over the
stump and skid sideways down your
flange. It’s a first-rate wood for flooring
and for the campfire.
BALLET
The man, a plough and a horse
On their furrowed course;
The axeman swinging his Made,
The tree’s slow fall,
And the trembling flight of light
and shade
Over it all;
A drunk on uneasy feet
In a still street ;
Gulls when they hover;
Swans going over;
The trees on their toes
When the wind blows;
The dustman’s steady tread
As he hoists the rubbish-bin
To the sway of his horse’s head—
And my rubbish tumbling in.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
THE SEA’S SONG
All is stillness on the sands;
the moon is in a cloud
which the tea-trees edge like lace.
There is no one in this place,
yet something calls, aloud . . .
We are those within your mind,
the lovely company, who take
you for a little space;
with harmony
of trees and cloud and moon,
of sea and sand, we make
of you one harmony—
our song of grace.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
TALKIE TALK
6 6 T)ON T look now, Ada, but there’s
that Mrs. Barlow in the row
behind us, the seat this side of the aisle
—you know, the one Joan was telling us
her daughter is supposed to be living with
a married man. Brazen as you like
about it, too! Migord, if it was my
daughter I’d be sneaking around the
back-streets in case someone recognised
me. But you know how' some people
ar^ t • ; •
‘H’m. Fancy. Jane Russell’s coming
on here next Saturday. Can’t stand a bar
Better make up your mind — I'm expecting an offer from the museum.”
of her! She’s so bold-looking, and, of
course, she simply parades sex. But I
believe she wears some stunning clothes
in this one. I must see it . . .
“Well, what do you know about that!
It would happen to me. About six-foot-
four and with a head as big as a butter-
box, and he must pick on the seat right
in front. Let’s shift. I couldn’t stand
having to dodge around his head all night.
There are a couple over there. It’s on
the side, but I suppose it’s better to have
’em all looking long and skinny from that
angle than not see them at all., ,
“Not there, Ada—those seats next to
the woman with the bottled-ginger hair,
Isn’t it frightful? You can see the grey
coming through at the roots! There, this
is better. Just in time, too, the lights are
going out. . .
“Oh, I’ve seen this one—saw it in town
with Shirk One of those crime things. It
isn’t too bad, though. Dana Andrews
is in it—there he is now. Isn’t he hand-
some? I like the strong way he looks
when he’s determined. Wish I had a
husband like him. My affair can’t make
up his piind about anything unless I keep
prodding him. But I’ve no need to tell
you that, Ada —you should know Fred by
now . ..
“Some people have no consideration at
all for others. They come in late and
tread all over your feet in the dark, and
not so much as a ‘Sorry,’ either. Must
have been dragged up in the gutter. But
what makes me more mad than anything
is when they brush past you in the row
behind and push your hat or your perm.
all out of place. Why people who know
they’re coming to the pictures can’t get
here on time beats me. Muddlers, I sup-
pose. Madam, would you mind asking
the little girl not to keep rustling that bag
of Jollies? ...
“Why must they give us all that rig-
marole before the picture starts—who
wrote the screenplay, who produced and
directed it, who recorded it, who was the
art-director and all the rest of it? After
all, it can’t interest anybody but them-
selves. I suppose it is they like to see
their own names stuck up there. And,
of course, it helps to spin out time—
makes you think you’re getting more for
your money than you are . . .
“I like crime-thrillers, don’t you,
Ada? Trouble with me is, I can never
pick the one who did it. That’s why I
like those pictures where you see who
committed the murder, and all the rest of
it’s about how they get him. This one,
though, you don’t know right till the
last. You’d think it could be only one of
three people ; his former girl-friend—
the victim is a millionaire playboy—the
taxi-driver who knew he was mixed up
in the drug-traffic, and the skiing-instruc-
tor, whose wife had got involved with
him. But in the end it turns out it wasn’t
any of them. It was the murdered
fellow’s own foster-broth
“Shut-up yourself! I’ve got just as
much right to be here as you have! I
don’t think you paid any more for your
seat than I did. Well, go and tell the
manager! . . . Well, I never! The hide
of him, Ada. Who does he think he is,
anyway? , . .
“There’s the millionaire playboy’s girl-
friend now, Ada, the one I was telling
you about. This is before he gives her the
go-by. They haven’t come to the part
yet where the skiing-instructor has the
fight with the millionaire. They simply
wreck the room. I wonder do they get
hurt as much as they appear to? Of
course, he doesn’t get murdered till after
that, though. He’s sitting at the wheel of
his car and you see the end of a gun-
barrel poked around a tree, there’s a bang
and he slumps over. Of course, you can’t
see the face of the one who fired it—if
you did that would spoil it for everyone,
I suppose ...
“Just look along there, Ada, in those
seats o\ er near the wall. Her head resting
right on his shoulder. Wouldn’t it make
you sick? I’ll bet they’re not seeing one
bit of the picture. After all, there’s a
time and place for everything. If they
want to mug-up why can’t they go some-
where where it won’t annoy other
people? If I had a daughter who I knew
behaved like that I’d tan her backside for
her! , . .
“Now it’s just here the millionaire and
his girl-friend are going to have the row.
You’ll see the janitor come past their door
—of course he hears her threatening that
she’ll get even with him some way or
other. He’s the one who gives evidence
against her when she’s arrested. And
she had nothing to do with the
murder! . . .
“Just get an eyeful of what he calls his
mountain ‘shack,’ Ada—it’s just outside
it he gets bumped-off. It’s the next scene,
I think. There, just look at that beaut,
fridge, will you? Almost twice the size
°f °urs. And I’d love a stove like that,
with the glass oven-door so you can see
Y°ur things baking. And isn’t that a cute
idea, the food-mixer sliding out on a tray
when you press a button! But, of course,
he could afford all those things, being a
millionaire . „ .
“Ooh, I’ve got a flea! Isn’t it awful?
It’s got underneath my corsets, and I can’t
get at it. Wouldn’t it make you mad?
You know, someone must bring them in
here. They always fasten on to me—l
think I must have the sort of skin they
like. They never seem to trouble you , . .
“There’s the young detective—he comes
into it afterwards when the murder’s
discovered. Isn’t he crunchy! He could
park his shoes under my bed. Oh, it’s
he who finds out about the millionaire’s
foster-broth
“You mind your own business! It’s
got nothing to do with you what I’m
saying. If you don’t like it there’s
nothing to stop you leaving!” . . .
Bo.


More and more Australian Truckmen
choose BRITISH BEDFORD!
\
r\ i
,<
h
LJ
J®
©
0
<4
4k.
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD
A General Motors Product
Work rim you how Va .fetes,
® rilisfl *SbS* e mor “ Profit'“S, e
OSSSt-***,.
More Won, ' With
,^'anZrn" J*®* Bedford
f'ore Work „ "' does ra °«
SKss^SSys: 1 -^
More Work „ of P«roi y “ get more
ast^srsi-^
Maintenance cost* 6305 Ie « wear' a£^«*',
Sonm e ro,— ,oWer
Scirn C ° StS - W6ar and C
® «fe ChoOSe Bedford.
® 3 Powerful, 6 cvl nu,
IZTzzr*?***
T** "**& by ° "«lon. wide
C heck Bedford’s nrt >
30 5/ cw t Cwt - //|>£ CeforChas **<eCa b
? ‘ons __ |i?, w -b. feni
I% w.b.
| a r fwt
4 tons __ fit w -b.
I tons _ w.b.
5 tons _ , J |L w -b.
%■£!=§
fAit 6 ■ w -b-
-( 1 PnCM Sales Tax)
£921
£969
£1.033
£l,O 81
£1,146
£1,173
£}>3lB
* ,440
£1.460
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and Serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD.
• PERTH
0 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase Plan is available for
your convenience. Ask your
Bedford dealer.
834/36 (
Business.Rollery.Etc.
INTERNATIONAL MINERALS, LTD.
IVDT many enterprises these
days are able even to hint at
the prospects of “unthought-of
rich dividends,” and tax-free at
that, in offering their shares
to the public. But those are the
words used in a prospectus just
issued (dated July 27, 1954) b>
International Minerals, Ltd., in
discussing the possibilities of its
goldmining leases at Gympie
(Q.). The prospectus quotes its
mining consultant: “It would be
difficult to find anywhere
throughout the world a field with
the possibilities that lie here.”
International Minerals, Ltd.,
was formed on April 27, 1948.
It was interested in mining
leases covering 360 acres east of
Gympie. In a prospectus dated
May 3, 1948, it assured prospec-
tive shareholders that there was
every possibility that the figures
of Lake View and Star, Ltd.
(W.A.), would be bettered by
results from the Gympie leases.
Apart from the fact that there
were three J.P.s on the board
(including William John Beckett,
the chairman), the 1948 pros-
pectus was notable for the
mention of 3,000,000 ss. share:
held in reserve for subscription
in the U.S.A. A total of
I, shares were to be
issued to the vendors of the
Gympie leases by the time the
option was exercised, (The
vendors were John Timmins,
J. a director of International
Minerals, Ltd., and W. J.
Beckett, Ltd.) A mere 100,000
ss.„ords. were offered to the Aus-
tralian public. Registration of
the co. was to be sought in
the U.S.A., Canada, Great
Britain and “other countries
when deemed justified by the
directors.” The co.’s auditor was
Lorrie A. Stuckey.
The July, 1954, prospectus
records that “in each of
the financial years preceding
the issue of this prospectus,
and since the incorporation
of the company, it has made
a loss and no dividends have
been paid on either class of
shares.” But the co. is still con-
fident, apparently, of the money-
making possibilities of the Ingle-
wood (or should it be Jingle-
wood?) reef at Gympie—“an
enormous body estimated on
known dimensions to contain
over 6,000,000 tons of ore, carry-
ing values of sdwt. to 7dwt. of
gold per ton.” There is a new
chairman of directors —Lorrie A.
Stuckey—and only one J.P,
remains on the board.
Hopes indeed are still high:
The possibilities that may result
from the diamond-drilling: pro-
gramme on the company’s leases at
Gympie are far-reaching: and, as yet,
cannot be calculated. Discovery there
of a huge new body of valuable ore
would mean not only unthought-of
rich dividends in the future but
also a great appreciation in the
capital value of all issued shares.
The directors of International
Minerals, jLtd.' therefore have no
hesitation in recommending:, and
with good “reason, this present issue
of the company’s preference shares
as one of the soundest and most
promising: investments ever offered
to the Australian public.
No beating about the bush
there! Coming after a statement
that “the company confidently
asserts that its preference share-
holders especially are assured of
the steady payment annually of
not less than the fixed prefer-
ential dividend of 8 p.c.,”
nothing could be much more
emphatic.
At July 27 this year Interna-
tional Minerals had an issued
capital of £389,914 in 1,139,657
ss. ords. and 420,000 ss. prefs.,
the prefs. having been “privately
subscribed prior to the issue of
this prospectus,” The public is
now offered 380,000 ss. prefs.
for cash.
Proceeds of the prefs. already
subscribed have been used to
buy 722,000 2s. 6d. ords. in
Proserpine Gold Mines, Ltd.
(giving the co. a two-fifths
interest) and to pay off liabilities,
provide working capital, etc.
Out of the new money it is pro-
posed to increase the holding in
Proserpine to three-fifths, finance
drilling and exploration at
Gympie, and pay brokerage of
£20,000 on the whole 800,000
prefs. issued, privately or other-
wise. The co. intends to pay
commission at 10 p.c. on the
pref. capital “privately sub-
scribed” (calling for £10,500)
even if the present issue brings
in no more than £25,000, which
is the minimum subscription for
allotment.
On the co.’s own calculation,
if it should raise only the
minimum subscription for allot-
ment, of the £25,000 paid in by
new shareholders only £12,000
of working capital would remain
after payment of £13,000 com-
mission and brokerage on this
and the previous issue.
The 8 p.c. pref. shares, after
all shares receive 8 p.c., are
entitled to participate with the
ords. above that rate. Payment
of any div. will depend on a
marked change in the co.’s
fortunes.
Prominent in the recent pub-
licity of International Minerals
have been its references to the
two-fifths interest in Proserpine
Gold Mines, Ltd. “The Proser-
pine Gold Mine,” says the pros-
pectus, “is situated about 14
I'm afraid our Wretched security department require
more tangible assets than a slashing figure and a lovely
personality.”
miles south-west of Proserpine in
North. Queensland,” in “the
Clark Range.” “The picked ore
produced to that date [1950J
resulted in a return of 52,2500 z.
of gold, 300 tons of copper and
30,0000 z. of silver.” The
mine is located on the Duffer
reef, “which is of the true fissure
type.” “Brecciatidn is associ-
ated with the lode.” “The fissure
has been proved over a length of
1200 ft.”
Possibly the most remarkable
thing about this information is
that these extracts tally precisely
with information given in the
prospectus of Dittmer Gold
Mines, Ltd., which was floated
in February, 1950. The Dittmer
information was included in a
“general report on mine” by
A. L. Frew. (Mr. Frew happens
to have been manager of the
Proserpine mine also until he
was succeeded by J. J. Topping.)
The similarity of the Proser-
pine mine with the Dittmer mine
is so remarkable that it becomes
even more remarkable that
nowhere in the prospectus of
International Minerals, in its
references to Proserpine, is
Dittmer mentioned. Surely, in
all the circumstances, it would be
more appropriate to refer to the
career of a mine situated (like
the Proserpine show) “14 miles
south-west of Proserpine,” in
the Clark Range and working the
same reef —the Duffer —than it
was to compare the Lake View
and Star figures with the
prospects of the Gympie back in
1948?
The table of proven ore
reserves at the Proserpine gold-
mine (certified to by “A. L. Frew,
mine-manager,” on September
15, 1953) is given at 137,000 tons
containing 1,087,000dwt. gold.
The proven ore reserves of the
Dittmer mine (certified to, in
February, 1950, by A. L. Frew)
were given at 147,000 tons con-
taining 1,152,000dwt. gold. Ore-
classification in the different
categories were exactly the same
grades—sdwt,, Bdwt,, Bdwt.,
lldwt., lldwt. —in the case of
both Dittmer and Proserpine.
The history of the Dittmer
mine under public ownership
doesn’t read nearly as well
as that of Lake View and Star.
Dittmer was floated in February,
1950, after a successful career
under private control. It raised
£250,000 in cash from the public,
but of this £197,000, in addition
to £lOO,OOO in shares, was paid
to the vendors. Dr. Felix Dittmer
and Dittmer Gold Mines Pty.,
Ltd. It aimed to start off with a
working capital of £4o,ooo—the
mine was already fully equipped.
Trouble descended swiftly on
Dittmer. On April 11, 1951,
W. J. Beckett, Ltd., was granted a
debenture over the assets of
Dittmer Gold Mines, Ltd.
On May 14, 1952, W. J.
Beckett, Ltd., appointed Lome
A. Stuckey as receiver and
manager of Dittmer Gold Mines,
Ltd.
In March, 1953, the debenture-
holder obtained a Supreme Court
order to sell the leases and assets
of Dittmer in satisfaction of the
amount due.
Proserpine Gold Mines, Ltd.,
became interested in the Clark
Range area last year—it acquired
its mine “as a going concern in
the latter half of 1953.”
None of the directors of Inter-
national Minerals, Ltd., was a
director of Dittmer Gold Mines,
Ltd., though Lorrie A. Stuckey,
present chairman of 1.M., became
receiver and manager of Dittmer
in 1952, under the debenture
held by W. J. Beckett, Ltd.
Other present directors of
International Minerals are
A. S, Lilburne; Donald George
Mackay; Thomas Shepherd,
J.P.; W. R. Dawson; and John
J. Topping.
In 1948 the co. said it intended
to apply to have its shares listed
on the Stock Exchanges of the
Australian capital cities and of
New York, Toronto (Canada)
and London. In the 1954 pros-
pectus the directors say they
haven’t yet applied for listing,
but are waiting until results from
Gympie and Proserpine justify
the move.
Although International
Minerals, Ltd., has been in exist-
ence for six years, no balance-
sheet is included in the prospectus


arra
WORSTED SUITINGS. You are assured of the
finest cloth made in Australia, from pure Australian virgin
wool, when you see the famous Yarra Falls name orv
worsted suitings.
The Hall Mark of Quality
YARRA FALLS LTD.. ABBOTSFORD. N. 9.
m
I
VICTORIA
Public Notice
WOULD FRANK FARRINGDON, hus-
band of late VERA FARRINGDON (nee
SIMMS), or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please contact PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, re Estate
Vera Farringdon deceased.
PcutA in Ihc
future
i
Colour is the word to use in description of New
Guinea. Here as I write at Lae.’the flamboyant meets
the eye in that luxury of landscape which only the
tropics can produce.
In this soil vines struggle for supremacy in height
with the trees. Mountain tops in the country behind
are penetrating the clouds. All Nature strains upwards
in New Guinea.
Across this second-largest island in the world,
our soldiers fought one of the most harrowing
campaigns in history.
The marks of war are still to be seen. Wrecks
in the harbours of Lae, Port Moresby and Rabaul have
Japanese names clear and legible upon them. Not
enough time has elapsed for the paint to have faded.
It was to Lae that a Japanese convoy was coming,
in desperate reinforcement, when it was totally
destroyed in the Battle of the Bismarck Sea.
When men of the A.I.F. reclaimed the town in
September, 1943, nothing was here but a shambles of
the enemy defences. But now Lae has been rebuilt,
and it is good to see the place and to sense the spirit
of revival, which is typical of the whole Territory.
All this was purchased in suffering and sacrifice
when the invader was expelled from Australia's
gateway. And New Guinea remains within the line of
common protection for ourselves and the Papuan
people.
It is part and parcel of Australasia. And its
development is our obligation.
The distances in the Territory are great, the surface
ways so impenetrable, that aircraft is bound to play an
even more important part in the future than it did in
the dramatic past.
General MacArthur proved that when he brought
in transport aircraft to drop supplies, ammunition and
equipment to the Australians fighting on the Owen
Stanley Range.
He set a pattern for the forward supply of troops
in warfare. More than that, he was one who pointed
the way to the opening of New Guinea in peaceful
development.
The time for that is NOW. The wings that are
over New Guinea today are our wings. We must keep
them so —and spread them and strengthen them.
—only the statutory statement to
the effect that in every year since
incorporation it has made a loss
and no dividends have been paid.
They are the last words in the
prospectus.
Credit Policy and Shares
Since The Bulletin, on
September 1, sounded the first
warning note about probable
changes in export and import
trends and credit policy, the
picture has come more sharply
into focus. The matter has been
the subject of considerable dis-
cussion in the press and else-
where, and the opening of the
wool-sales (with prices rather
lower than last season), plus
another monthly adverse trade-
balance, has tended to confirm
previous predictions.
With their advances at a
record level, the trading-banks
are preparing to shorten sail in
some directions, notably with
respect to advances to consumer-
credit concerns. No doubt the
banks generally feel that the wool
and wheat industries will require
more finance than usual this
year, and will deploy their
resources to the point in the
economy where they are likely
to do the most good. Consumer-
credit companies have had an
exceptional run during the past
18 months, and the tendency
now will be to level-off.
The Commonwealth Bank, in
its annual report, says; “Some
increase in bank-advances during
1953-54 was justified, since pro-
duction was increasing and
stocks were being replenished
after the contraction in the
previous year to below normal
levels. The rise of £ll5 million,
however, was substantial, and
may well have been more than
was required to maintain em-
ployment and provide for the
growth of the economy. With
the economy now fully employed
restraint will be necessary if
increasing bank-advances are not
to contribute to the emergence
of excess demand. It would be
in the interest of economic
stability if firms were, for the
present, to plan to reduce their
dependence on bank finance.”
Throughout the Australian
economy there is a tendency for
interest-rates to lengthen— not by
very much, certainly, but there
has been no reduction in the
bond-rate, as was expected a
year ago, and the present tighten-
ing of money, however gradual,
is in itself an indicator to a
slightly higher cost of borrowing.
On the Stock Exchange, higher
dividends on the majority of
ordinary shares is meeting the
trend towards a demand for
higher yields.
Sagging Oil and Uranium
Except for the momentary
flare-up of interest at Cape Range
No. 1, where gas-bubbles were
detected in the core at 3475 ft, —
Ampol issues rising and then
slumping as a result—the market
for oil and uranium shares has
sagged badly. (No evidence of
oil was found in the sands at
3552 ft. at Shothole Canyon or at
3880 ft. in Rough Range No. 3.)
The market trend is pretty
much as forecast here for
months past: the long drag
towards production and profits
from uncertain mining ventures
is not conducive to sustained
sharemarket -excitement.
Even the glamorous figures
issued periodically by Aus-
tralasian Oil Exploration con-
cerning its Mary Kathleen and
other uranium leases haven’t
done much to dispel a growing
market wariness about prospects
of what in reality are still mostly
prospecting ventures.
Oil and uranium issues gener-
ally still stand at a premium of
several times their par-values;
hut speculative activity has
diminished perceptibly. On
Sydney ’Change the mining “call”
is over in a fraction of the time
it took two or three months ago.
And the throng of excited
punters in the Stock Exchange
corridor has dropped to a
quarter of what it was.
Industrial shares have been
mostly firm in the flow of higher
dividends that has been forth-
coming. Larger yields are being
obtained even at stronger prices.
The general run of div.-distribu-
tions remains in keeping with
higher level set in previous
weeks.
B.H.P. fully - paids have
strengthened to around 415.,
though the rights are offering at
a shade above Bs,, making them
around 38s. 6d. fully-paid.
Some quietness in trade is
reported in Sydney, but most of
the basic manufacturing indus-
tries are extremely busy. So are
the building-trade and the motor-
distributing business.
Changing Face of Oil News
“P. Mobile”; A recent state-
ment by West Australian
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., that “the
geological picture of Rough
Range was still not completely
understood, and that more drill-
ing would be required for a
workable interpretation of the
sub - surface conditions,” is
further welcome proof that the
technical staff of that co. recog-
nises difficulties ahead, and is not
influenced by the unbalanced
boosting which occurred before
it took charge of operations.
More and more the reports
issued by Wapet and its
affiliates are falling into line with
the considered and modest state-
ments published by Australasian
Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion with reference to their highly
efficient and very courageous
operations in Papua.
While a section of the press is
still uninfluenced by this
tendency towards factual report-
ing, the spirit of it appears to
have penetrated, to some extent
at least, the portals of the Depart-
ment of National Development.
It might be suspected, of
course, that this change—in such
striking contrast to former
optimism with respect to any oil
project in which the Bureau of
Mineral Resources had a finger
—is made in an attempt to
explain away the discrepancies
within the areas covered by those
projects between the depart-
ment’s interpretations of struc-
ture and prospects and the facts
that have been elicited by
further examination and drilling.
In any case, the new attitude is
far more in keeping with the
functions of a Government
department, and it is to be hoped
that it represents a permanent
change of heart.
Frederic Ash
* A very good result has
been shown by Frederic Ash,
Ltd., hardware merchants, of
Newcastle, Cessnock, Lismore,
Wollongong and other parts.
Turnover rose 26 p.c. during the
year to June 30 (compared with
a rise of 8 p.c. in the preced-
ing term), and net profit
was equal to 29 p.c. on capital
(after providing for tax, depre-
ciation and £9OOO for long-
service leave), compared with
26 p.c. in the preceding term.
The dividend was raised from
12i p.c. to 15 p.c., and almost
as much as was distributed was
left in the undertaking.
The business will celebrate its
hundredth birthday next year.
Net tangible assets are conserva-
tively valued at 38s. 6d. in the
books, and finances are com-
fortable. The co. has a one-third
interest in R. S. Exton Pty., Ltd.,
Brisbane, and a “considerable
financial interest” in Vencore
Veneers Pty., Ltd.
Buyers offer 51s. for the
shares (ex 2s. div.), without
attracting sellers. At 555. the
yield would be £5 9s. per cent.,
with the div. well covered.


EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE What do these words convey to you.
Ip you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be necessary
when the time arrives for you to enter upon your duties; the
responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to give
full information on these matters, and to explain how the Company
may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead of a person who
ha? been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important subject,
write for a free copy of our booklet, "Your Executor and Trustee ”,
vr telephone for an appointment, without obligation.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
»rr ii'xt n 1 FWIS • D R LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
Directors: Hon. T.' A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX; AIjLEN C. LEWIS. D. R. LioAUtii
, , nl f TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £71.000.000 W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
A. O. ARMTTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND Atoenwi
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Olflees
WAOOA
TAMWORTH and
ORAROE.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
FEATURES of the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts of this big
undertaking—it turns out most of Aus-
tralia's paper-board and kraft require-
ments —were (1) elimination of the hold-
ing co., giving the public direct equity
interest in the business, (2) marked
recovery in output, sales and net earn-
ings, (3) gains in operational efficiency
to the benefit of costs, (4) cut in selling-
prices, (5) further additions and improve-
ments to plant, and (6) attainment of a
better balance in the financial structure.
It was in 1926 that Australasian Paper
and Pulp and Cumberland Board Mills
passed their working assets to a new
operating co., A.P.M., in exchange for the
latter’s scrip. In 1948 the two holding
cos. amalgamated, and A.P.P. became
sole owner of A.P.M.’s ord. capital. In
April, 1954, A.P.P. went into voluntary
liquidation, and those on its register
received A.P.M. shares in exchange for
their own A.P.P. scrip on the following
basis:
A.P.M.’s Shares
A.P.P.’s Issued in Exchange.
Issued f — A ——>
Capital. Ratio. Number.
8 p.c. I 6 P-C- 1
Pref .. .. 437,506 j 8 f 2 656.259 J
Ord 13,474.812 1 for 1 13,474,812
The deal involved the issue by A.P.M. of
656,259 new £1 6 p.c. prefs., of which
492,859 were provided by capitalising
part of the share-premium reserve a,nd
the other 163,400 by conversion of a like
amount at existing ord. stock into pref.
stock. A.P.M.’s paid capital is now
£16,974,812 in 3,500,000 6 p.c. prefs. and
13,474,812 ords.
Early in 1954 A.P.P.’s prefs. fetched
275. and the ords. 20s. A.P.M.’s prefs.
recently sold at 20s. and its ords. at
225. 6d. Holders of both classes of scrip
can thus see a capital gain in the market-
price of their new holdings. Holders of
A.P.P.’s old prefs. also enjoy a gain of
1 p.c. in income—they surrendered the
right to advance with the ords. beyond
8 p.c., which hadn’t amounted to any-
thing in the past. The ords., which
received p.c. in 1952 and 4 p.c. in
1953, got 6i p.c. last term, and their
prospects of better later on are encourag-
ing.
The co.’s five mills—Maryvale, Mel-
bourne, Fairfield, Broadford (Vic.) and
Botany (N.S.W.)—are fed partly from
its own pulping plant and partly from
imported pulp. They are powered largely
from their own generating equipment,
and most of the fuel for the boilers comes
from a jointly owned brown-coal deposit
at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.). A subsidiary,
A.P.M. Forests Pty., which owns large
stands of pine and eucalypt in Victoria
and N. S. Wales, looks after the supply
of local pulp-wood. Good progress is
now being made with erection of a new
20,000-ton board-mill at Petrie (Q.) —
work on this project was suspended
during the 1953 term.
Since 1945 shareholders and debenture-
holders alone have put up £19,252,602 in
share - capital (£13,774,812), share -
premiums (£2,227,790) and debenture
money (£3,250,000); and there has always
been a considerable sum represented by
new plant unable to contribute to the
pool. The undertaking has, therefore,
not yet developed full earning-capacity,
and might not do so for a couple of years
to come.
Only setback to net earnings was in
the 1953 term, when heavy imports and
overstocking by customers resulted in a
sharp fall in output and sales, some price-
cutting, rise in unit costs and shrinkage
of nearly 50 p.c. in both profits and the
ord. div. Here are output and sales ton-
nages :
f Production N ' Sales.
Wood Paper and Paper and
Year to Pulp, Boards, Boards.
June 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1951 .. .. 43,283 148,194 147,892
1952 .. .. 47,535 160,037 154,662
1953 . . . • 36,307 102,317 96,143
19§4 . . . . 61,609 166,276 168,976
Last term the position improved as the
year advanced, and when the books
closed output of paper and boards was
running at the rate of 197,000 tons p.a.
Additional plant came into operation,
and unit costs and selling-prices were
reduced following increased technical
efficiency and continuous running of the
mills (24 hours a day for seven days a
week).
After setting aside £1,011,808 (up
£412,964) for depreciation, £998,600 (up
£742,100) for taxation and £175,000 (nil
previous term) for long-service leave,
there was a heartening spring of £927,282
in declared net earnings:
t Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 6 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
*5l 668,978 60,000 11.2 = 519,500 89,478 1,674,951
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,649,951
Share premiums, £i, 054,674 .. 2,704,625
’52 1,070,299 60,000 8.9 = 769,500 240,799 2,945,421
To staff funds. £25,000 . . . . 2,920,424
Issue exes, written off, £44,844 .. 2,875,580
Share premiums, £420,411 .. .. 3,295,991
’53 549,426 159,956 4.5 = 575,500 3,109,961
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..3,099,961
Reserves capitalised, £492,859 .. 2,607,102
Tax overprovided 1953, £95,000 .. 2,702,102
Unexplained reduction, £8755 .. 2,693,327
’54 1,476,708 190,312 6.5 = 893,363 393,033 3,086,360
The £1,476,708 of profit claimed leaves
out of the figuring an unexplained reduc-
tion of £8755 in reserves and £95,000
overprovided for taxation in 1953. It
covered the pref. div. and 9.4 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands, and the ord.
div, was lifted from 4.5 p.c. to 6.5 p.c.
Many shareholders find it difficult to
reconcile the moderate rate of dividend
with premiums charged on new shares
issued of recent years.
Balance-sheet movements are encourag-
ing
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. £1,000,000 £2,843,328 £3,500,000
Ord. .. 11,756,570 13,638,212 13,474,812
Reserves . . 2,920,424 3,099,961 3,086,360
Debentures .. 3,250,000 3,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages ~ 576,305 554,389 523,173
Overdrafts .. 4,632,691 2,963,955
Other cr’tors.. 2,441,053 865,116 1,142,402
Tax reserve .. 1,408,669 1,665,169 2,478,69 1
Staff funds .. 50,000 60,000 260,000
Final divs. .. 492,500 641.534 643,992
Total . . £28,528,212 £29,581,664 £29,295.720
F plS d End .. 17.014.671 19,753.861 20.237,900
Shares other cos. 1,144,079 1,249,079 W39,99J
Stock . . 6,420,066 5.213,107 3,960,411
Book debts .. 3,922,269 3,338,535 3,829,330
Cash, etc. . . 27.127 27,082 28,080
Total . . £28,528,212 £29,581,664 £29,295,720
A contraction of £1,252,696 in stocks was
accompanied by growths of £490,795 in
book-debts and £484,039 net in freeholds
and plant and a reduction of £2,027,671
in the overdraft. Excluding debentures
(which are earning more than their keep)
and shareholdings, the more-or-less liquid
surplus was £1,833,273 (up £4712).
Expanding output, maintained since
the close of accounts, improved efficiency
and lift in the tariff—though by less than
the co. asked for —augur well for further
improvement in net earnings. Some of
the Tariff Board’s recent criticism of the
co.’s efficiency and costs has not been
justified by the facts, chairman E. Telford
Simpson says.
At 225. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords. return
5.9 p.c. on a 6i p.c. div. basis, or 6.2 p.c.
should the distribution be lifted to 7 p.c.
The 6 p.c. prefs. recently sold at par.
Net tangible cover is £5 14s. 7d. prefs.
and 245. 7d. ords.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
THOSE on the ord. register of this
more-than-a-century-old Melbourne
retailer, whose store is alongside Myer s
in Bourke-street, in the heart of the shop-
ping centre, were doubly rewarded last
term. Shortly before the close of accounts
they were handed a one-for-one issue ot
bonus-shares, on which a 3| p.c. div. was
paid, and the rate of distribution on the
old shares was hoisted from 9 p.c. to
15 p.c. The gift-scrip called for £344,041,
which came out of an assets-revaluation
reserve created by writing up the book-
value of portion of the freeholds.
It was all made possible by a combina-
tion of fortuitous and other factors which
have built up the co.’s strength and com-
petitive power over the last 20 years.
They include post-war inflation of capital
and other values; a marked growth in
both the value and volume of turnover ,
a change of merchandising policy m
which the emphasis was switched from
high-priced imported fashion goods—
chief cause of the co.’s troubles in the
early 1930’s—to medium-priced quicker-
moving lines, largely of local origin; a
system of careful budgeting, which has
resulted in better buying and the closing
of superfluous outlets; and a hitherto
conservative dividend policy, which
enabled reserves and a flexible financial
structure to be built up.
The intriguing question for investors is
whether 15 p.c. to the ords. is likely to
be maintained on capital as it now
stands—£B3B,oB2, of which £150,000
carries a fixed cumulative 7 p.c. Together
with the pref. div., 15 p.c. to the ords.
would call for £146 more than last term s
record £113,566 of profit. Over the last
five years declared profits averaged
£81,212, of which 36 p.c. was passed to
reserves. The pref. div. and 12 p.c. to
the ords. would now call for £93,070, or
£20,490 less than last term’s record profit,
but £11,858 more than average net earn-
ings for the last five years.
The market prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at
10s. 10d.—they fetched 18s. cum rights
to the bonus share-issue —to return 5.5
p.c. on a 12 p.c, distribution, or 4.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c, div. basis. The div., how-
ever, would be worth double the declared
rate on capital as it stood before the
bonus-issue. The £1 prefs. at 255. yield
5.6 p.c. Net tangible cover is £8 9s. 4d.
prefs. and Bs. 2d. ords.
The co.’s performance during and since
the import flood is a testimony to the
quality of the control, which is well
decentralised. Last term costs weie
steadier, and the economic barometer
rose, especially during the last half. And
the installation of escalators and other
amenities for customers had a “decided
influence” on turnover, which reached a
record but unstated level. After allowing
£15,238 (up £5230) for depreciation and
£70,000 (same as previous year) for taxa-
tion, net earnings took a leap of £42,175,
or 59 p.c.;
Dividends > _
p re f. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. semis.serves.*
1949.. 75,928 10,500 9 p.C.=29,164 I gl 264 244,535
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• J
1950. . 71,922 10,500 9 p.c.=30,964 } 35,453 269,993
To staff fund, £5OOO .. •• 5
1951.. 80.677 10,500 11ip.c.=39.565 I 26 612 295f60 5
To staff fund, £5OOO .. V, ’ nAO
1952.. 68,507 10,500 9 p.c. =30,964 27,043 322,648
1953.. 71,391 10,500 9 „ „ 30,964 29,927
Revaluation assets, £356,517 .. • • 799,992
Reserves capitalised, £344,041 .. .■ 366,051
Overprovision taxation, £27,886 • • 892,937
1954. .113,566 10,500 15 p.c. =63,074 39,992 432,929
* After deducting book-value of goodwill ( £60,741).
If £27,886 overprovided for taxation in
previous years (mainly in 1953) is taken
into the reckoning, the actual improve-
ment in last term’s net result is very
small. The £113,566 of profit claimed
covered the pref. div. and 14.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands. On share-
holders’ tangible funds, the profit was
8.9 p.c., which is above average in the
trade.
The year’s net addition of £356,917 to
the book-value of freeholds is due to the
writing-up already referred to. The
growth of £102,755 in plant reflects the
installation of escalators, etc., and the
increase of £151,775 in stocks is a pointer
to brisker trading:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Ord. capital .. £344,041 £344,041 £688,082
Pref. capital . . 150,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves .. .. 383,389 413,316 493,670
Mortgage .. .. 35,000 185,000 190,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. .. 211,706 194,922 195,787
Stag fund .. 65,202 66,635 69,909
Tax provision .. 66,579 86,288 70,000
Final div. .. 22,363 22,363 45,872
Total .. .. £1,278,280 £1.416.565 £1,903,320
Freehold, etc. .. 562,977 562,677 919,594
Plant, etc. .. 55,300 77,238 179,993
Stock .. .. 527,424 467,816 619,591
Book debts, etc. .. 70,728 79,469 93,381
Cash, etc. .. 1,110 213,624 30,020
Goodwill .. 60,741 60,741 60,741
Total .. .. £1,278,280 £1,416,565 £1,903,320
The moderate volume of book-debts (up
£13,912) suggests that the bulk of turn-
over is on a cash basis. To meet the
year’s outlay, cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £183,604 and £5OOO was added to
mortgages. Overall the financial struc-
ture is comfortable and well balanced.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Bris.)
r’ has been a flush year for the
breweries. The resilience and level of
C.P.’s net earnings (£323,067, up
£109,056 last term) are a measure of the
strong position the co. enjoys in the trade,
financially and otherwise. Together with
the Queensland Brewery, the co. slakes
most of the thirst in the growing and
populous southern and south-western
portion of the Northern State.
Since 1940 turnover has bounded
along—the Australian output of beer
has more than doubled —and substantial
additions and improvements have been
made to hotel properties and the brewery,
and paid for largely out of earnings.
During this period paid capital remained
steady at £1,500,000, and £1,229,361 was
added to reserves, lifting them to
£1,481,076 at July 31 last. Of the addi-
tion, £400,000 came from inner reserves
during the three years to the close of
accounts in 1952 ; and it is unlikely that
the cupboard where these accumulations
are kept has been left bare, or that the
board’s cautious policy in respect of pro-
fits claimed has been abandoned. With
two exceptions (1942 and 1943, when
p.c, was paid), the div. was kept at 8 p.c.
for the 22 years to 1953, with a 2 p.c.
sweetener added in 1937 and 1939. Last
term the rate was lifted to 10 p.c., and
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that it won’t remain there.
The board doesn’t broadcast the co.’s
gross earnings and exes., nor is the num-
ber of hotels owned disclosed. But
statistics show that the Australian output
of beer has kept on expanding for over
a decade, the increase being 8.5 p.c. for
the year to June 30 last as against 8 p.c.
for the preceding 12 months. The co.’s
turnover also benefited from recent capi-
tal expenditure, as well as from a small
lift in the selling-price of beer early last
term, following abolition of price-
control. Two other important factors
contributing to the spring of £109,056
(50.9 p.c.) in the year’s net earnings were
reduction in the rate of co.-tax in the
1953 Budget and steadier wage-cost
structure:
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 143,264 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 20 764 636,079
Provident fund, £2500 .. )
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 636,079
1950.. 151,609 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 29 109 665,188
Provident fund, £2500 ..J
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 865,188
1951. . 192,141 8 p.c. = 120.000 7 6g 641 934,829
Provident fund, £2500 ..)
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 1,034,829
1952.. 206,669 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 g< 169 j n 5,998
Provident fund, £2500 loiaooa
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 1,218,998
1953.. 214,011 8 p.c. = 120,000 | 91i51 i 1,310,509
Provident fund, £2500 .. 3
1954.. 323,067 10 p.c. = 150,000 1179,567l 179 ,567 1.481,076
Provident fund, £2500 .. 3
The £323,067 of profit claimed—best in


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
kuv m
....
SANDERS# 5
Ogee- FILES
Correspondence. I d «olc • i.
statements. etc., filed In the
"Sander*" con be securely
bound and converted Into a
period book of reference at
the end of each month —Of
;
Price* end f»r-
tber information
topee application
any other period. ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lia
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
LIUBA BELT
KEEPS
YOU
35
SP
SUM
& FIT
Sold only by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS STREET, MELB.
A BANKING TRADITION
~ down through the Changing Years
EFFICIENT,
WISE AND
FRIENDLY
SERVICE
sn
rlit4*t-.. *fU~
Camels replace horses in a Cobb & Co.
Coach during a period of severe drought.
OUR pioneers were determined and resourceful men. Hardships
did not prevent them from penetrating the outback. Those who
followed them to build the towns and to establish industrial and
commercial activities were imbued with the same spirit. For many
years, discomfort was their lot —and, certainly, the keynote of travel.
This Bank has played its part, from the early days, in aiding
such men. It provided a wise, friendly and efficient banking service
which has been extended through an ever growing number of
country branches.
fds
To-day, we of this Bank, owned and
staffed by Australians, are proud to carry
on this tradition of helpful service to men
of enterprise engaged in the further
development of our nation.
Head Office, or the Manager of our
branch nearest to you, will gladly give
particulars of our service.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Consolidated Press Limited
Proprietors: Daily Telegraph Sunday Telegraph,
Australian Women's Weekly and A.M.
(Incorporated In New South Wales on Bth January, 1936)
Registered Office: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of £1,500,000
REGISTERED
1»
0
MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Currency ... TEN or FIFTEEN YEARS
(At the option of applicants, specified at time of application)
ISSUE NOW OPEN
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED,
THE COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
the co.’s history—was written
after allowing £24,415 (up £2694)
for depreciation and unstated
amounts for taxation and other
contingencies. It was equal to
21.5 p.c. on capital as against
14.2, 13.7, 12.8, 10.1 and 9.9 p.c.
back to 1949. So the 10 p.c. div.
was a comfortable matter. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 10.8 p.c., which sug-
gests, among other things, that
assets are well worth their book-
value.
Continued expansion of the
undertaking and further
strengthening of the already
strong financial position are the
features of balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves .. .. 1,310,509 1,481,076
Creditors, etc.* .. 662,519 823,777
Pinal div. .. 60.000 90.000
Total . . £3,533.028 £3,894,853
Brewery, hotels, etc. 2,294,171 2,467,368
Stocks . . . . 311,920 313,923
Debtors .. .. 230,662 240,555
Cash. etc. .. 696.275 873.007
Total .. £3,533,028 £3,894,853
* Includes unstated provision for taxation
and contingencies.
A few years ago hotel interests
accounted for about three-
quarters of the book-value of
fixed assets, to which £173,197
was added last term. The
amount coming to creditors, etc.,
increased by £161,258, and
£176,732 was added to the large
holding of cash, etc. The con-
traction in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£513,708) was
only £2631, despite the addition
to fixed assets. The co. is well
equipped to further expand its
interests, and therefore earning-
power, without asking share-
holders for more.
At 275. 3d. (255. a year ago)
the co.’s f.-p. 12s. 6d. shares
return 4.6 p.c, on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks
for 5.5 p.c. on his money counts
on a 12 p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
245. lOd. per share.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd.
A POPULAR rendezvous for
country visitors, the Metro-
pole is one of the best and most
consistent dividend-payers in the
hotel group. Last term the div.
was ll£ p.c., which
was sweetened with £50,402 of
bonus scrip, one for five, handed
to those on the register at June
25, 1954. The gift, which can
be taken as an expression of the
board’s confidence in the out-
look, came from a reserve of
£53,888, created by a moderate
writing-up of the book-value of
fixed assets. Paid capital was
thus lifted to £302,412, of which
£167,402 has been transferred
from reserves, last previous capi-
talisation being £42,000 in 1935.
For the 20 years to 1929 share-
holders received a steady 10 p.c.,
plus special cash distributions
totalling £67,500, followed by
divs. averaging 7.3 p.c. for the
14 more-or-less difficult years to
1943, and then -11.3 p.c. for the
11 years to the close of last
accounts.
At the moment the question
which interests shareholders most
is whether the \l\ p.c. div.,
equal to 13.8 p.c, on capital as it
stood before the last gift, is likely
to be maintained. On capital as
it now stands 11| p.c. will call
for £1919 less profit than was
claimed last term, and there are
no very ominous storm clouds
on the horizon. The co.’s long-
term prospects depend- largely
upon the level of prices obtained
for farm and other primary
products, and upon what
happens in connection with wage
and other costs, over which the
management has little or no
control.
Spending became freer as last
term advanced, especially during
the latter half, and the volume
of trade in the bar, lounge, cater-
ing and guest-occupancy sections
expanded. Though the cost of
foodstuffs rose, wage-rates have
been pegged since Sept., 1953,
and the taxgatherer made off with
less (£21,000, down £5000). So,
after setting aside the usual
£2OOO for depreciation, there was
an improvement of £4187 in the
declared net result:
Net
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
& £/ £>
1948.. 34,431 p.c. = 28,981 99,280
Prom deferred repairs reserve,
£2OOO .. .. .. 101,280
1949. .34,666 p.c. = 31,501 104,445
From deferred repairs reserve,
£4OOO 108,445
1950.. 31.633 12* p.c. = 31,501 108,577
1951.. 35.713 121 „ „ 31,501 112,789
Tax underprovided, £3OOO .. 109,789
1952.. 26.843 10 p.c. = 25,201 111,481
1953.. 32.509 11* „ „ 28,981 114,959
Revaluation assets, £53,888 .. 168,847
Reserves capitalised, £50,402.. 118,445
Prom tax reserve, £9878 .. 128,323
1954.. 36.696 11* p.c. = 32,761 132,258
An overprovision of £9878 for
taxation in 1953 has been written
back to free reserves. The
£36,696 of profit claimed was
equal to 12.1 p.c. on capital as it
now stands, or 8.4 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds. Over the last
decade net earnings averaged
£33,515. In this class of busi-
ness much depends upon what is
spent upon replacements and
renewals and charged as exes.
Balance-sheet figures mainly
reflect the writing-up of fixed
assets and issue of bonus-scrip
already referred to, as well as
further strengthening of an
already strong financial position:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital £252,010 £252,010 £302,412
Reserves .. 111,431 114,959 132,258
Renewals res. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Creditors .. 14,392 16,959 18,366
Tax prov’ion 26,063 30,389 21,500
Final div. .. 15,121 18,901 22,681
Total .. £429,017 £443,218 £507,217
Fixed assets 258,317 256,317 308,205
Stock .. 19,310 9,354 6,349
Book debts,
cash. etc. 160,390 177,547 192,663
Total .. £429,017 £443,218 £507,217
Government securities (at cost)
and cash total £187,032 (up
£15,431) and book-debts, etc.,
£5629.
At 40s, (345. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 shares return 5,7 p:c. on
an 111 pc. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is
28s. 9d.
Great Western Consolidated,
Southern Cross (W.A.), expects
to maintain gold output above
recent levels, and to increase both
the grade and volume of pub-
lished ore reserves in the quarry,
though more overburden will
have to be removed to get at the
payable stuff. Experience to
date has strengthened the board’s
belief that prospectus expecta-
tions of grade will be realised in
the long-run. With some help
from Government subsidy, the
co. should be able to complete
its large development and equip-
ment programme without
“serious” increase in debts, the
chairman says. For the year to
March 31 last the mill treated
420,129 tons, averaging 2.43dwt.,
for 51,1430 z. fine gold. Of the
feed 47,2 p.c. was sulphides from
the Copperhead mine and 52.8
p.c, oxides from the opencut
quarry. Including development,
overall average cost was 35.78 d.
per ton. At March 31 estimated
ore reserves at the Copperhead
were 431,000 tons opencut, aver-
aging 2.3dwt., and 292,000 tons
underground,, averaging 4.odwt.,
above No. 8 level. Recent driv-
ing on this level disclosed 55ft.
of ore averaging Bdwt. over a
width of 19ft. Speaking gener-
ally, values in the mine are
patchy. The co.’s f.-p. 10s.
shares, which dropped to ss. Id.
in 1953, recently sold at 7s. 6d.
* * * *
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., which
missed the early uranium bus,
has taken up 30 uranium leases
around Mt. Isa (Q,), all of them
containing some radioactive
material. Examination of the
leases has been carried out by
the co.’s own geologists.


Women's Letters
STONEr
Wistaria is having its brief and beauti-
ful reign in Sydney at present, giving the
city an air of grace and sweetness which
may or may not be symbolic. The parks
and gardens are vivid and blooming, and,
in spite of a certain tendency on the
part of the weather to retreat into winter,
there is, as the opening of the swimming
season approaches, a general feeling in
this city of beaches that the summer is
going to be good.
There is a gathering-up of strength, too,
for the social events of the October week,
the opening of the racing season at
Randwick on Saturday, its festival con-
tinuing on Monday and Wednesday and
the parties always associated with it, the
Naughty Nineties Ball next Friday and
the marathon fun it brings with it, and
on the following Tuesday the Black and
White Ball with its magnificent dresses
and enchanting decor.
☆ ☆ ☆
The flower-decorations at the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball were even lovelier this
year than in previous years; and the gay,
springlike atmosphere of the normally
sombre Town Hall seemed to communi-
cate itself to the guests, so that the party
was a really happy one. Cool, natural
rock-gardens with an illuminated foun-
tain were set against banks of spring-
blossom, lemon and white roses and tall
delphiniums, and the whole of the stage
was like a large old-fashioned garden,
focused in the centre by a sunburst of
gladioli in a golden vase. Cascades of
red and white roses twined with ivy
decorated the pillars, and masses of
blossom transformed the eastern end of
the hall.
The debs were received by the Gover-
nor, Sir John Northcott, who was accom-
panied by his daughter Mrs. Russell
Nash, wearing cream satin with bronze
beading, Mr. Russell Nash and Miss
Sheila Collett, whose white embossed-
organza dress was worn over a green
underskirt and sashed with green. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills, wore
orchid-pink brocade, the matron-of-
honor, Mrs. Ross Davidson, wedgwood-
blue satin embroidered with rhinestones,
and the secretary of the ball-committee,
Mrs. C. M. Guiney, a dress of blue satin
with a striking design in gold-sequin em-
broidery.
☆ ☆ ☆
Suitable films for children are a
problem which concerns most thoughtful
people, particularly parents, so that the
visit of Miss Mary Field, O.B.E., dis-
tinguished English authority on the
subject, drew a good deal of interest in
Sydney during the week. Miss Field,
who has had over 20 years’ experience in
film work of every kind and who is the
chief executive officer of Children’s
Film Foundation, London, said at a
party tendered to her by the National
Council of Women that she had observed
the reactions to films of over a million
children in all parts of the world by
means of infra-red photography and
sound recordings, and that she believed
children have good natural taste which
can be debased by unsuitable films.
“Children like most films about other
children,” she said. “They like excite-
ment, adventure and danger, but it is
only the ill-adjusted child who likes
violence.”
Miss Field’s visit, which includes
every State in Australia, is sponsored by
the British Council, the Victorian Council
for Children’s Films and Television, and
in N.S.W. by the National Council of
Women. It is hoped that her visit,
through her knowledgeable speeches
(she made nine in one day in Perth!)
and the excerpts she has shown of
children’s films, will create more public
interest and action on this subject, which
is very important to the future of our
country,
☆ ☆ ☆
The ex-students of Riviere Girls Col-
lege held their annual reunion at the
Secondary Schools’ Club during the week,
when 40 were present at a very lively
party —an extremely creditable roll-up,
considering that the school has not been
in existence since 1916. It wds sad that
the president, Lady Butters, was not able
to be present because of illness, but Mrs.
Frank Cotton (who is the wife of Pro-
fessor Cotton) received the guests, who
included Mrs. A, Rogers, formerly a
teacher at the school. Lady Mcllrath,
Miss Lily C. Byrne, Mrs. Triglone (well-
known in golfing circles). Miss Olive
Keele and Miss Marjorie Keele, Mrs.
H. G. Ross, Miss A. Mailler and Mrs.
G. C. Suttie,
Riviere College, which was siuated in
Nelson-street, Woollahra, has a dis-
tinguished list of graduates, the most
famous being the late Dame Constance
D’Arcy. “The teaching prepared us for
all university examinations,” said one
ex-student, “and it was better than you
can get these days. At least we could
spell!” The site of the old schoolroom
is now occupied by a block of flats, but
part of the grounds has been made a
reserve with a garden and sundial—a
pleasant memorial to a school which
could claim ardent loyalty from its
students nearly 40 years after it has
ceased to exist.
Margaret Styles, second daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. K.C. Styles, of Vaucluse,
has chosen St. Canice’s Church, Eliza-
beth Bay, for her marriage to John
Noakes, of Meningie (S.A.), on October
16. John is the son of Mrs. H.N. Noakes,
of Falmouth, Cornwall. After their
marriage the young couple will motor to
South Australia, where they will make
their home. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Campion Hall, the Riverview Prepara-
tory School at Point Piper which was
formerly the home of Sir Alexander
McCormick, has been bought by the
Franciscan Missionaries of Mary as a
Retreat House where women and girls
may spend a day, a weekend or a full
week in contemplation and spiritual
refreshment. Although the sisters will not
take over the property until the end of
the year, a committee of ladies has already
been formed to help raise funds for the
work. Mrs. G. Collins is president, Mrs.
C. Bums and Mrs. J. H. Pelly vice-presi-
dents, and their first function, an Ameri-
can Tea held at the Hall on Saturday,
was attended by about 250 people.
☆ ☆ ☆
The grace of the fashions of the
’nineties can be seen in the costumes worn
by the women actors, Lesley Lindsay
and Gwen Harrison, in the production
of “The Eagle Has Two Heads” at the
Metropolitan. There is a white evening-
gown which has nostalgic charm because
of its elaborate decoration, and a burnt-
orange afternoon-dress with a polonaise
and bustle-bow bordered with beautiful
black lace. The long black riding-habit
worn in the third act, though perhaps
more uncomfortable to wear, makes the
“H” line of 1954 seem mere foolishness.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. and Mrs. Tom Frost, of Vaucluse,
with their three sons, will leave on the
maiden voyage of the Iberia next month,
for England, and they will be accom-
panied by Jennifer Roche, of Cranford,
Edgecliff. They plan to spend their holi-
day mainly at St. Moritz, and on their
return to Australia they will leave the
ship at Perth to visit the family station-
homes, Westfield and Wandina, in
Western Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
An excellent work deserving of help
is the new project to house the aged at
Hammondville, Here a new centre is
being built where old people may live
in pleasant surroundings as part ot a
balanced community paying their own
way at a rate which is within their limited
means. Also, in November, a nursing-
home to care for 40 chronically-ill pen-
sioners will be opened by the Governor,
Sir John Northcott. Donations tpwards
both these good works may be sent to
Rev. B. G. Judd, 188 Forbes-street,
Darlinghurst. They would be, of course,
rebatable for income-tax purposes.
ME1LI3€UICNE ;
Prelude to the Royal Agricultural Show
was the buffet-luncheon party given in
the dining-room of the Administrative
building at the Showgrounds. Receiving
the guests with R.A.S. president T. N.
Mitchell was his sister Florence, who wore
a grey-and-white-spotted silk-tweed suit
and a grey-trimmed white cloche. Also
assisting with the dispensing of hospitality
were the vice-presidents of the society.
Judge Mitchell and Mrs. Mitchell, Mr.
and Mrs. L. M. Dugdale, and Mr. and
Mrs. J. Bott. Members of the council
of the R.A.S. were guests, among them
Sir William and Lady Angliss, Mr. and
Mrs. Trevor Clarke, Mr. and Mrs. Alec
Creswick (he will be ringmaster for all
riding events), Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Doyle,
Mr. and Mrs. W. Gordon Blackstock
(he will judge the Shorthorn cattle) and
Mrs. A. G, Hunter, whose late husband
was for some years president of the
R.A.S.
Mrs. Adrian Nelken, who is Scottish,
is a member of the Robin Hood
auxiliary, which works for mentally
retarded children under the auspices of
the Helping Hand Society. The Robin
Hood auxiliary is having as its first
function a Bohemian Night and Art Show
at Ciro’s on October 1, and Mrs. Nelken,
whose telephone-number is BJ1106, is one
of the ticket-secretaries. William Dargie.
an Archibald Prize-winner, has donated
a picture which will be one of the prizes
to be won. 'ohn Warlow photo.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
present at the gala-opening of the Irish
Fashion Parades in the Myer Mural Hall,
proceeds of which will be given to the
Royal Melbourne Hospital. The parade,
which was attended by 500' guests, was
preceded by cocktails and a champagne-
dinner. The vice-regal party was received
by Mr. and Mrs. Norman Myer. Lady
Brooks wore a full-skirted gown of oyster
satin-brocade with a Chinese pattern in
faint pinks and blues, and white Arctic-
fox stole. Also in the official party were
the Premier and Mrs. Cain, Lord Mayor
Cr. F. Selleck and Mrs. Selleck, Minister
for Transport P. L. Coleman and Mrs.
Coleman, Mrs. S. Baillieu Myer (who is
on the hospital’s board of management),
and Mrs. R. W. Chambers (president of
the hospital auxiliaries). Sir Victor
Hurley, president of the hospital, was
accompanied by Lady Hurley.
Among the beautifully gowned women
guests were Mrs. Philip Dare, whose
white gown was covered with sequins and
cabochon-pearls; Mrs. A. G. Silk, wear-
ing an ice-blue satin gown, with the bodice
jewel-trimmed; Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham,
whose white silk-jersey gown was cut on
Grecian lines with a draped hipline and
pleated front panel; Mrs. June Myers,
her gold French-brocade gown patterned
in crimson roses; Mrs. Frank Packer,
in mushroom-pink silk-jersey skirt and
white bodice; and Mrs. Jim Brady, who
wore over her pink duchesse-satin gown
a full-length coat of brown satin brocade
with mink cuffs on the short sleeves.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Celtic influence strong in the
collection of clothes being shown by
Sybil Connolly, famous Irish designer.
There are both simplicity and elegance
in the designs, and most beautiful fabrics,
all products of Ireland, are used.
From Connemara Sybil has taken the
red-flannel petticoat and turned it into
a full evening-skirt which is teamed with
an exquisite white Irish-linen blouse. She
has also used red flannel to make a full-
length, sleeveless coat to wear over a
black slack-suit for an evening at home,
and she has made a red-flannel day-frock
to wear under a black-and-white tweed
coat, lined with red flannel and worn with
a red-flannel hat. From the Isle of Aran
comes Bainin (pronounced bawneen)
tweed, and this was seen in a day-dress
with hand-knitted sleeves in Bainin wool.
Good Companions was the name given
to a black Irish-linen dress, buttoned
through and with a boat-neckline. It was
worn with a hip-length jacket of white
Irish-linen.
There is a beach-frock made from a
red-and-white candy-stripe tablecloth.
The floral centre made a border for the
skirt and a stole to wear with the frock.
The suits and frocks of Donegal tweed
are breathtaking. To a pale-green Irish-
linen short evening-gown embossed with
white Georgian embroidery the designer
has given the name Sarah, in honor of
the woman loved by Robert Emmett.
Finoula, a white organza evening-gown,
is printed all over with shamrocks. An
Irish-linen so finely woven it looks like
and hangs like chiffon was seen in grey
and featured crinkle-cartridge pleating.
Water-lily was a sheath gown of light-
green satin with an overskirt and draped
shoulder in olive-green.
Ripe Apricots was a gossamer-fine Irish-
linen gown, finely-pleated; First Love a
pale-pink gossamer Irish-linen gown
made from handkerchiefs, dyed a deli-
cate pink and highlighted with bands of
plaited pink-satin ribbon on skirt and
strapless bodice. The three Irish manne-
quins, Rachel Fitzgerald, Pat O’Reilly
and Maureen Trendell, are as lovely as
the gowns they wore.
☆ ☆ ☆
Greenknowe, the Toorak home of Sir
Robert and Lady Knox, was massed with
flowers in shades of white, gold and green
for the springtime masquerade in aid of
the National Theatre Movement, of which
Sir Robert is president. The Governor
and Lady Brooks attended. Lady Brooks
wore a lovely bouffant gown of white
tulle with an overskirt of white guipure
lace which had the pattern outlined with
silver thread and opalescent sequins. Her
black lace mask matched her black-and-
white lace stole. The vice-regal party was
received by Lady Knox, president of the
ball committee, who wore a panniered
period-gown in mauve-and-pink brocade
and a powdered wig. Sir Robert was a
gay figure in a red-and-black domino and
a black mask. Lady Angliss went as a
Spanish lady, Mrs. Warford Mein was
Anne Boleyn, Carol Simmons a Ranee in
an ice-blue-and-gold sari. An outstand-
ing pair were Mrs. D. Guy Smith as
actress Mrs. Siddons and her son-in-law
Michael Keeble as Disraeli.
Other colorful figures were Gertrude
Johnson, who was dressed as a Venetian
lady; Mrs. James Buchanan, an appeal-
ing Ophelia; Mr. N. Burbank, Q.C., a
Spanish grandee and his wife a harem
lady; Mrs. Frank Matthews was Lady
Teazle, and both in costumes of the
Louis XV period were Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Dennett. Mrs. D. Braham was Flora
from “La Traviata,” and ticket-secretary
Dorothy Laver represented Countess
Oustermann from “Such Men Are
Dangerous.” Most striking mask was
worn by Fred Asmussen, who was King
of the Beasts: it was a huge lion’s face
and head, and on his hands were huge
golden lion’s-paws.
☆ ☆
To celebrate their 25th wedding-anni-
versary Cr. Bernard Evans and Mrs.
Evans entertained about 100 guests at a
party in their Toorak home. In the
reception-rooms tulips, daffodils and
freesias were mingled with pussy-willow
and foliage. The hostess wore a short,
bouffant frock of garnet-red tulle;
gardenias were scattered over the full
skirt. Assisting their parents were
daughters Mary, whose short frock was
of emerald Indian silk-tissue, and Margot,
who wore pink organdie.
Mrs. James Ferguson wore a short grey
frock under a coat of Chinese-red bro-
cade, Mrs. A. E. Carlyle’s dinner-gown
was of royal-blue French crepe, Mrs.
Alex Finlay’s oyster faille was striped
with gold, and the deep flounced hem-
line was of pale-yellow tulle threaded
with gold.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
"80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 TEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
-Have You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Missing Beneficiaries
ESTATE OF CHARLES VICTOR PAD-
DISON, late of North Ryde, in the State
of New South Wales, Advertising Con-
tractor and Publisher (trading as the
‘‘Paddison Advertising Co.”). A Sealed
Certified Copy of an Order to Administer
with the Will dated 27th October, 1950
annexed granted by the Supreme Court
of Queensland to the Public Curator of
Queensland, the executors named in the
said Will having duly renounced, was
sealed with the Seal of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on the 7th day of
September, 1651, upon production by the
Public Trustee in and for the State of
New South Wales, the duly constituted
Attorney of the said Public Curator. —
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and
Administration Act, 1898-1947 ; Testator’s
Family Maintenance and Guardianship of
Infants Act, 1916-1938 ; and Trustee Act,
1925-1952 ; the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, the
administrator with the will annexed of
the estate of the said CHARLES VICTOR
PADDISON, who died on the 30th day
of January, 1952, hereby gives notice
that creditors and others having any claim
against or to the Estate of the said de-
ceased are required to send particulars of
their claims to the said PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE at 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, on
or before the 4th day of December, 1954,
at the expiration of which time the said
Public Trustee will distribute the assets
of the said deceased to the persons
entitled having regard only to the claims
of which he then has notice.—P. J. P.
PULLEN, Public Trustee.
The name is
(D c CaUams
OQ'CdUumS
Scots Olhisky
m
M
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland_since_lBo7.
' MC 22/3^
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT CAIRNS WARDROP.—
TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN LILA
MARY WARDROP has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1188 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is ask-
ing the exercise of the Court’s discretion
in her favour under Section 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 14th day of January 1955 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from JOHN HICKEY & SON. Solicitors.
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BETTY MABLE HUNT late of 55
Cross Street Double Bay.—TAKE NOTICE
that NORMAN HENRY HUNT has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2561 of 1954
on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
and habitual neglect of domestic duties
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney on or before the 7th day
of January 1965 A copy of the Petition
filed herein may be obtained free of
charge from MESSRS. PIGOTT STINSON
& CO., Solicitors, 2b Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; or MESSRS. WOODGATE &
CLEAVES, Solicitors, 97 Vincent Street,
Oessnoek. —C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ARTHUR REEVES late of
Kings Cross. —TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL
MAY REEVES has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 2593 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 11th
day of January 1955 and obtain a copy of
the Petition free of charge from JOHN
D. NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN TIGHE late of 27
Herbert Street, West Ryde.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARY KATHLEEN TIGHE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3057 of 1954 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
"Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th January 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. BIRNIE JACKSON &
COATES, Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—O. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PETER HENRY WILLIAM BOOTH
late of 3 Unwin Street Canterbury.—
TAKE NOTICE that JUNE ELIZABETH
IDA BOOTH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2492 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse and is asking
the Court to exercise its discretion in her
favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may file an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by Ist of November 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE. 66 King
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Festival Wilder
Sub-titled perhaps with mock-
modesty “a farce,” Thornton
Wilder’s “The Matchmaker” is
derived, so a useful programme
informs us, from a comedy by
Johann Nestroy (Vienna, 1842),
which in turn was based on
John Oxenford’s “A Day Well
Spent,” first produced in Lon-
don in 1835. And it might
equally well have been rewritten
from some comedy of appren-
tices on the razzle-dazzle by
Dekker or Beaumont and
Fletcher,
Thus, if classic pretensions are
needed for a modern play to
make the third of the official
Edinburgh Festiyal programme,
along with the two august Old
Vic Shakspeare productions,
Mr. Wilder’s outburst of merri-
ment has them. Mr. Wilder has,
moreover, tried to make his play
seem a little more than it is—
or a little less: what’s wrong
with an honest farce? —by
furnishing each of his principal
characters with a soliloquy in
which he or she explains to the
audience his own character and
Mr. Wilder’s philosophy: which
is, apparently, that everyone
should have a certain amount of
adventure in his life, balanced
with a certain amount of
quietude.
But this, if a profundity, is not
a very original one. The solilo-
quies add nothing to the play,
are unnecessary and would, in
fact, were they not delivered with
such appealing skill, be em-
barrassing. It is not as a modern
classic that one thinks of the
play while Cornelius Hack! and
Barnaby Tucker are hiding
under tables and sneezing in
cupboards in Mrs. Molloy’s hat-
shop, but simply as irresistible
knockabout fun.
An American period-piece of
the ’eighties, it is about one
Horace Vandergelder who keeps
a store in a place called Yonkers,
near New York: a hard-fisted
commercial success who rules
his two apprentices with a rod
of iron (is not the phrase dimly
familiar?) and who refuses to
let his tearful niece marry a
poor artist.
Mr. Vandergelder admits to
one weakness: he would like to
marry. He goes to New York to
make his choice between a
couple of possible spouses; and
the apprentices, left free for the
first time in their working lives,
light-out for New York them-
selves, determined to kiss a girl
before they sneak back to
Yonkers, “because thousands of
girls are being kissed all the
time,” but never by them in
Yonkers. At the same time
Vandergelder sends his niece to
New York, to be suppressed out
of reach of the artist, and her
lover goes pelting after, intend-
ing to elope with her.
It is enough, for the rest, to
say that the first kissable girl
the two apprentices encounter is
Mrs. Molloy, who happens also
to be one of Mr. Vandergelder’s
possibilities for marriage. In
and out of cupboards, under
tables and behind screens, in the
style of every successful comedy
ever written, the apprentices, the
girls and the enraged Mr. Van-
dergelder dodge and bump into
each other all over New York
until at last, of course, every-
body marries everybody.
Classic or not, it goes with a
banging of cupboards, a popping
of champagne-corks and a
bubble of laughter all the way
through ; and alone of the three
great plays in town has not a
single weakness in the acting.
Tyrone Guthrie is the producer ;
and Sam Levene, Arthur Hill,
Ruth Gordon, Eileen Herlie and
Esme Church are the leaders of
a cast among whom all should
be mentioned.
The sumptuous sets and cos-
tumes are by Tanya Moisei-
witsch.
Douglas Stewart*
♦♦♦ *
Dermota
Some exceptionally fine legato
singing marked the opening
group of 18th- and 19th-century
songs by the Viennese tenor at
his second Sydney recital.
In Gluck’s “O Del mio dolce
ardor” and Pergolesi’s “Nina”
the voice, pure in tone, was de-
livered in the most relaxed and
placid style to match the mood
of gentle affection which is the
essence of both songs. Much
more animated was Carissimi’s
“Vittoria mio core,” the trium-
phant cry of the lover who has
broken the spell once cast over
him by his lady.
A Schumann group included
the famous “Ich grolle nicht,”
sung as well as any tenor has
sung it here. Preceding it was
one of the most effective items
of the night: “Ich hab’ im
Traum,” with its strange accom-
paniment of short stabbing
chords in the bass —for stark-
ness and economy matched only,
surely, by Schubert’s “Organ
Grinder.” In two of the songs
appeared the tenor’s only vocal
weakness: insufficient volume
and carrying-quality in the low
chest notes.
There were four delightful
songs by Grieg—“ln a Boat,”
“The Dream,” “The Swan” and
“St, John’s Eve” ; a quartet of
songs by Mendelssohn headed
by “On Wings of Song,” and a
bracket of Hugo Wolf, which
has become one of the tenor’s
specialities. In these he had the
benefit of his wife’s fine and
thoug htf u 1 accompaniments.
These are songs demanding the
fullest intellectual co-operation
between singer and accom-
panist ; they were accorded that
in good measure.
❖ * &
In its quiet way the music
department of the University of
Sydney is importing more start-
ling entertainment than Gipsy
Lee: next Wednesday they are
putting on in the Great Hall a
four-part work by Perotin who
blocked-in his square and dia-
mond notes around 1200 —700
years ago, and another first-
Australian performance, a
Vaughan Williams concerto-
grosso two years old, with
Tallis’s “Lamentations” and
concerto grosses by Handel and
Bach thrown in.
Artbursts
Two Art Contests
Despite the considered dictum
of William Dobell, who ought
to know if anybody does, that
art prizes are bad for art, there
are more today than ever. Two
more art prizes were lately con-
tested for in Melbourne. One
was the Victorian Artists’
Society’s spring exhibition, once
a non-competitive business like
the harmonious singing of the
thrushes, but this year a struggle
for the £lOO prize generously
donated by Aubrey Gibson, a
businessman, of Melbourne.
The prize went to lan Arm-
strong’s “Promenade,” an obvi-
ous reference to the so-called
“blue” period of Picasso, so one
must conclude that, in this case,
the criterion of quality was the
fashion.
Otherwise, how explain the
passing-over of Myra Gould’s
portrait of a woman solicitor, a
lively piece of portraiture and
an excellent bit of painting. Or
Rex Bramleigh’s “Flower
Study,” which, while not as sen-
sitive as Miss Gould’s portrait,
has a quality of light completely
lacking in the winning picture?
And what about Jean Hewlett’s
“Collins-street,” Vivian Taylor’s
crisp statement in “Spion
Kopje,” the simple directness of
Ew e n French’s “Foreshore
Stack,” Joe Greenberg’s “Pier,
Lakes Entrance,” Geoff Tyson’s
“Winter Sunshine,” Robert
Miller’s “Quiet Water” and the
sky in Leighton Osborne’s
“Landscape”? None of these
could be called great works, but
at least they have Nature’s, not
Picasso’s, accent.
There are also Chew Wai-
tong’s delicate “Moon Orchid,”
which has the accent of Chinese
tradition, and his “Winter, Cam-
paspe River,” which, surpris-
ingly enpugh, has Nature’s
accent?
The second contest was for
the £5O prize for watercolors
donated by the Yorick Club, of
Melbourne, the literary and
artistic club which has been
gathering traditions since Marcus
Clarke started it in the ’sixties.
Winner of this event was Ken-
neth Jack with an architectural
drawing of an old homestead.
According to the judges, Daryl
Lindsay and William Dargie, the
sketch conveys exactly what the
artist set out to express, which
could also be said of the com-
pilers of the telephone-directory.
However, there is more than
factual statement in the picture
of boats and wind painted by
M. Mills, in the dark sky,
breakers and black rocks of
Gordon Speary, and in the two
delicate little Yarra sketches by
J. Minogue.
Current Sydney Exhibitions
Sydney Group, at David
Jones’s Gallery; More experi-
ment than accomplishment by
Donald Friend, Carl Plate,
Lyndon Dadswell, D. Orban,
James Gleeson and others. Rus-
sell Drysdale’s furnacelike im-
pression of “Emus in a Land-
scape” and John Passmore’s
striking color-composition in
“Boys Looking for Bait” quite
dominate the show.
Mosman Art Prize at Mosman
Town Hall: This year’s prize for
oils goes to Roy Fluke’s abstract
“Bridge Construction”—Grace
Cossington’s Smith’s “Banksia
With Drapery” and John Elder-
shaw’s “The Hill Paddock”
would seem to have had equal
claims. Enid Cambridge’s airy
Bush Creek” took the water-
color section.
7 * ❖ ♦
“P.D.”; Once, standing curi-
ously behind an artist who was
putting his impressions of
Sydney Harbor on canvas, I
asked him, rather fatuously,
what was the best way to ac-
quire a critical knowledge of
painting. “Paint!” he said
bluntly without turning his
head. Good advice. I’ve often
wondered since why more people
don’t follow it, particularly
when the N. S. Wales Education
Department includes art in the
long list of subjects it makes
available to the community as
part of its adult education
scheme. If anyone sufficiently
interested can get a dozen or
so people together the depart-
ment provides them with accom-
modation and an instructor for
a couple of hours in the even-
ing once a week. I understand
that there are about 20 such art
classes around Sydney at the
moment including business-
men, housewives, whole families
in fact—and, if the thought of
half the community rushing
around with paints and brushes
is a little terrifying, a sample of
the results—as inspected at
Avalon the other day where
they have an able mentor in
G. K. Townshend—includes
enough crisp little watercolors
and pleasant oils to justify
thoroughly the abovementioned
advice.
Talkies
“The Grace Moore Story”
Or, rather, portion of the life-
story of the American soprano
who settled for ever the cult of
the 14-stone prima-donna. The
slight story, which wisely stops
short of the tragedy which cut
off the bright singer’s career,
has the sentiment surprisingly
throttled back, although it still
gives the impression that it is
never more than a vehicle for
the delivery of Kathryn
Grayson’s voice, which is
reasonably good.
Walter Abel has the stock role
of the stern papa who forbids
his daughter to go on the stage
but is in a box, smiling and
proud, to see her take 27 curtain-
calls at her Metropolitan debut
as Mimi. At Sydney Mayfair.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Carnival Story”
The love-troubles of a young
married couple, the man
American, the girl German, who
do a high-dive-into-a-tank act in
an American circus touring
Germany, comprise most of the
doings in this well-made film,
which owes much to the clear,
intelligent acting of Anne Baxter.
At Sydney Plaza.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
RHODA cut in in Alec’s
defence.
“Alec isn’t the only one
who has financial dis-
asters. Remember, Viki, that
concert-tour you had with the
good-looking Spanish pianist—
when your voice was suddenly
so good?”
She paused with a very arch
expression on her face.
“All the money she paid for
hall rent and travelling-expenses
for both of them and no more
than a handful to hear them at
any place. That must have set
you back a bit. Then there was
the time you put on the opera in
Sydney; engaged an orchestra
and a lot of singers and the
critics laughed it off the stage ;
you didn’t get out of that for
nothing.”
But Viki replied, quite un-
abashed and in the best spirit:
“You don’t need to worry
about your little sister. I see
that the money keeps rolling in
all the time, and it’s only when
it starts to pile-up that I take a
risk with some of it. And I got
a fine lot of publicity out of it.
I would have made money, too,
only I spent too much on the
wrong kind of advertising. That’s
the trouble with show business,
you’ve got no idea which kind
of advertising is going to pay.”
“Oh, no. You’re wrong there.”
Breyley was unable to restrain
himself. “There are reliable
ways of checking advertising
results. Your business-manager
should have been awake to
that.”
“Oh! ” Viki exclaimed, sur-
prised. “I know that. /
was the business-manager.”
“That’s where you went
wrong,” Breyley assured her,
with a certain amount of pat-
ronage. “The most important
man in any such venture is the
business-manager. You might
get away with second-rate
artists, poor programmes, bad
production, but if you haven’t
got a good business-manager
you’re sunk.” ■
Viki gazed at Breyley as if
really seeing him for the first
time.
“My God, Gregory,” she said,
“I think you might be right. All
the things that went wrong be-
cause the people I trusted to do
things made mistakes. Wrong
dates advertised, bookings
messed up, tickets lost, unsuit-
able halls, untuned pianos.”
“There you are,” Breyley
beamed through his glittering
glasses. “Just the things a good
business-manager would have
avoided.”
“You are clever,” Viki said
admiringly. “Now, I wonder if
you would have any ideas about
a new plan I have in my mind.
I’ve got an idea for a sort of
Super Academy. I’d get a
couple of top names as teachers
—you know, people who’ve
been big stars but are just going
off and know it. I’d make a big
advertising splash that would
attract hordes of pupils—a lot
more than they could handle;
then I’d have a big staff of
ordinary teachers that I could
get cheap, who’d give the pupils i
the ordinary drill like scales, and
exercises.
“But «at each lesson the pupils
would have just a few minutes
with the star teachers ; just let
them show off their top notes
and get a pat on the head, see?
Just enough to make them think
they are getting some value for
the high fees. And to make them
stick, a promise that if they
show real talent they’ll have the
topliners to teach them all the
time. Don’t you think, Gregory,
there’d be something in a scheme
like that?”
Breyley smiled at her, highly
pleased at being consulted.
“Of course there’d be some-
thing in it. You’ve certainly
got the right idea. That’s the
way a modern streamlined busi-
ness is run. That’s the way any
good accountancy firm works.
Take Folio’s as an example,
though, of course, it’s only on a
small scale in a place like Jin-
dulla. We have four qualified
accountants, but what the trust-
ing clients don’t know is that
the bulk of the work is done by
a gang of young fellows and
girls, who are pleased enough to
be doing the work cheaply be-
cause they think they’re learning
to be accountants themselves
some day.”
“How lucky for me,” Viki ex-
plained to the others, “that I
met Gregory.” She turned back
to Breyley, her eyes shining with
a flattering intensity. “You’re
going to be a wonderful help to
me. I’m going to have a long,
16ng talk with you.”
She walked up close to him,
with a wrapt, softening expres-
sion which did not seem to be
entirely in accord with the hard
matters of pounds, shillings and
pence they had been discussing.
On the other side of the net
Rhoda was staring. She said,
trying to prevent too much bit-
terness entering her voice, “I
think it’s time somebody went
to the house to get the lunch.
Didn’t I hear you saying, Viki,
that you’d get it today?”
“Oh, did I?” Viki looked
genuinely surprised. “But that
was before I knew how much
I’d need to talk to Gregory. My
whole future depends on it,
Rhoda, darling. You be a dear
and run along. You can do it
so much better than I can. You
show Gregory what a good
housekeeper you are.”
“Whoever goes,” Alec pointed
out, “will have to walk, because
Johnny hasn’t thought of bring-
ing my car back.”
“That settles it,” Viki de-
clared. “I couldn’t possibly walk
all that way. You go, like a pet,
Rhoda.”
“We’ll all have to go,” Alec
decided, after looking around
vainly near where his car had
been parked. “I’m thirsty and
we’ve got nothing to drink.
Johnny took our beer away with
the car.”
CHAPTER IV
'THE Kraftmann dining-room
was full of ponderously
heavy, laboriously carved old
oak furniture stained a dark
brown: the table with pillar-
like legs; chairs with high
backs and sides which could
hardly be drawn up without the
assistance of those sitting on
either side, when they seemed to
imprison the diner inescapably;
a sideboard as big and contain-
ing as much as a King’s Cross
flatette; an ancient forerunner
of the traymobile with the top
shelf chin-high, needing two
strong people to set it in motion.
The walls were papered with
a predominantly brown pattern ;
the ceiling of varnished pine,
remotely high, was also brown ;
and, since the windows opened
on to a veranda thickly festooned
with creeping roses, the room
was cool and dim. So dim that
those coming in from the bright
sunlight had to peer and strain
their eyes to see, yet no one sug-
gested switching on the light;
electricity was one of the things
on which the family economised
in a grudging penny-wise man-
ner, even while they used petrol,
for instance, as if it were water.
Into this gloomy and rather
forbidding atmosphere Breyley
was bold enough to introduce
his “line” again; in the same
words, too, despite the fact that
the others had heard it before.
“In town they told me how to
get here: ‘Follow the Wagga
road until you come to the most
improved property, with the
greenest pastures! ’ ”
“Quite right, too,” Kraftmann
interrupted. “You wouldn’t
turn in at the wrong place if
they told you that. What else
did they say?”
“The best fences, the biggest
dams.”
“Yes, yes,” Kraftmann ap-
proved. “Go on.”
“The finest homestead, sur-
rounded by the most impressive
group of sheds and outbuild-
ings—and that will be the Kraft-
manns’ place.”
“Ah! ” Kraftmann seemed
disappointed that it had ended
so soon. “And you turned in at
the right place. You must have
a bit of sense, anyway. Didn’t
they say anything about the big
concrete posts and the wrought-
iron entrance-gates, or the
avenue of Pin us insignis trees,
or the built-up graded-metal
road to the house?”
“Oh, yes,” Breyley agreed,
“they mentioned that, too. But
naturally I paid more attention
to the things that add real value
to a property. My word, you
must be able to write-off a
beautiful amount for deprecia-
tion each year. And I can see
that all your repairs are up-to-
date, nothing allowed to fail to
pieces. I’ll bet you don’t waste
any money on income tax if you
can get out of it.”
This was said in the most can-
did and admiring manner, with
perhaps a slight overemphasis
on the last few words, yet it
caused Kraftmann’s eyes to
narrow with sudden suspicion
and dart from Breyley to Rhoda
and back again. Then he said
with offensive directness:
“I can see to that part of my
affairs without any help from
anybody.”
Rhoda was so upset that she
started to chatter foolishly about
Breyley’s ability as a tennis-
player ; but presently Breyley
relieved her of her burden by
taking an intense interest in her
mother; tactics so obvious that
Viki had to wink at Alec.
“I suppose you’ll be glad
when shearing is over again,” he
said. “I believe you have hosts
of men here.”
“Oh, yes, we have quite a lot.
But Rhoda does all the organis-
ing. She’s so much better at
it.”
“We have four shearers,”
Rhoda came into the conversa-
tion authoritatively as she dis-
tributed plates, “and four shed-
hands, and there’s Father and
Alec and Johnny and a couple
of other permanent men who
haven’t time to go home to their
cottages for dinner.”
But Breyley seemed to require
his answers from her mother.
“You have four shearers, do
you?” he asked with gentle
insistence.
Mrs. Kraftmann glanced at
the exacting, calculating face be-
hind the severe spectacles and
became a little flustered.
“Four? Well, yes, I think it
was four. Wasn’t it four,
Alfred?” she asked her husband.
“Of course it was four,” he
said abruptly, as if she had
humiliated him by exposing her
ignorance before a stranger.
Breyley waited for only a few
moments for ruffled feelings to
settle into place again before he
went on, still persisting with the
matter.
“And I suppose they’d be here
quite a long time. Two or three
weeks?”
“Four week s,” Rhoda
prompted, unable to contain her-
self.
But Breyley waited patiently
for Mrs. Kraftmann to answer.
“Well, if Rhoda says it’s four
weeks it is four weeks. She
wouldn’t make a mistake,” Mrs.
Kraftmann said, with just a
hint of impatience.
“Four weeks is right,” Alec
spoke loudly towards the ceil-
ing. “Four shearers averaging
five to seven hundred sheep a
week each. You should be able
to work out what you want to
know from that, Breyley. I’m
surprised Rhoda didn’t tell you
how many sheep we have: or
did you just want to check on
whether she was exaggerating?’
Mrs. Kraftmann interposed
suddenly with hospitable sweet-
ness:
“Oh, Rhoda would know how
many weeks ; she does the cook-
ing. We used to get a shearers’-
cook to do it when Rhoda was
younger, but when she found
out how much he was paid she
insisted on doing it. Of course,
she gets paid, too, but at least
the money stays in the family. ’
After one apprehensive glance
at Breyley to see how he might
take the news that she acted
as shearers’-cook, Rhoda, re-
assured, began to boast:
“But what about all the money
I save in food. I think I ought
to at least get a good bonus on
that, don’t you, Gregory?”
“Strictly speaking, no,” said
Gregory. “You’d be expected
to do the job efficiently if you
were paid the scheduled rate.
The fact that you save money on
food merely proves that the
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalment : —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. —Town accountant;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki.—Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
(‘‘she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony"). Home on a
visit front Sydney, where she has
become ‘‘citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Rhoda has dropped a family
bombshell by announcing at
mealtime that she proposes to
bring Breyley along to the next
‘‘shareholders’ ” meeting. En-
raged, Kraftmann adjourns the
meeting indefinitely. Rhoda in-
vites Breyley to a family tennis-
party, and there he learns more
about Viki’s singing-school and
of the claim being made*against
Alec by a travelling-salesman of
‘‘Old Master” oil-paintings for
“masterpieces” destroyed in a
car collision.


other man was a waster who
deserved what he got, the sack.
Kraftmann nodded his head
approvingly, a surprised look in
his eyes.
“Well, you’ve got some sen-
sible ideas,” he conceded.
“I hope that when you get to
know me better,” Breyley said
glibly, “you’ll admit that I have
a lot of sensible ideas. And that
reminds me, Mr. Kraftmann, if
you’d do me the kindness I’d
like to have a word with you in
private before I go.”
Although he said it more in
the manner of a businessman
than a lover, the family had no
doubt about what he intended.
Mrs. Kraftmann turned warm
congratulating glances on
Rhoda, and Viki embarrassed
her for the rest of the meal with
sly allusions.
After dinner the way was
made smooth for Breyley; a
message soon came to him
through Rhoda that her father
was in his office ready to receive
him. Breyley got up from his
chair with the most complete
assurance to follow Rhoda.
“Don’t forget,” she said to
him, in a manner both admiring
and conspiratorial, “to tell him
that you’re doing this because
you’re a friend of mine ; a very
good friend.”
Breyley smiled at her confi-
dently and squeezed her arm.
Kraftmann was sitting at his
desk on which he had a bottle
of whisky and several glasses.
To Kraftmann there was one
adjunct to every crisis, a couple
of double-whiskies. And the
way to treat his proponent in
any situation was to fill him up
with whisky. His experience of
these tactics was that he always
got an advantage through hav-
ing the more seasoned head and
stomach.
“Sit down and have a drink,”
Kraftmann commanded.
“No drink, thanks; like to
keep my head clear,” said
Breyley.
Kraftmann stared at Breyley
with his fierce blue eyes from
under the unruly straw-thatch
eyebrows; Breyley glinted at
Kraftmann through his geo-
metrical spectacles, not in the
least perturbed.
“Come on, one won’t hurt
you.” Kraftmann poured out
an extra big one and pushed it
into Breyley’s hand. “Always
helps when there’s serious busi-
ness to discuss.”
Breyley took the drink, but set
it down untouched.
“I don’t need any of that kind
of help,” he said, as cocksure as
a prohibitionist. “The fact is,
I only wanted to offer you a
little help if you’d accept it. I’ve
made a special study of graziers’
financial problems, and I’ve dis-
covered that all of them seem
to be losing a good deal of their
money through not planning
their expenditure properly; put-
ting too much into capital equip-
ment, say, and being hit up for
unduly high taxation as a con-
sequence. Rhoda thought I
might be able to save you a lot
of money.”
He made a sudden turn to-
wards Kraftmann, and was
astonished to find him glaring,
outraged at the effrontery.
“I don’t need any of your
help,” Kraftmann said angrily.
“Rhoda had no business to
suggest it.”
Breyley remained masterfully
calm.
“Just as a matter of ordinary
business procedure, Mr. Kraft-
mann,” he said agreeably, “she
had every right. She’s a share-
holder in a registered company,
isn’t she?”
“I’m her father,” Kraftmann
declared loudly, “as well as her
manager. She knows that Ido
my best for her.”
“All right,” Breyley agreed
peacefully, “granted. But
wouldn’t it be worth while to you
to let me have a look at your
books if I could save you a
couple of thousand pounds a
year?”
“You’ll never look at my
books!” Kraftmann shouted.
Breyley continued admirably
calm.
“Just as a matter of interest
to you,” he said, “Article nine,
section two (a), paragraph four
of the Companies Act of nine-
teen thirty-nine states: ‘The
books of all companies shall be
inspected and audited by an
approved auditor at least once
a year, or shall be made avail-
able to an auditor employed by
one or more shareholders.’ ”
Kraftmann could hardly
speak.
“You’re putting her up to
this,” he accused Breyley, “but it
won’t get you anywhere. What-
ever you do you won’t see my
books.”
Breyley. just a little awed by
the anger, so much worse than
any he’d seen exhibited by other
outraged grazters, st.ll spoke
“Just to get the legal aspect
clear, it’s really not a matter
within your control. If she made
a formal request to me (not that
I’m suggesting that she will)
then you’d be bound by law to
make the books available.” -
“You’re threatening me, are
All the documents looked terrifyingly authentic to Alec, typed on the whitest and heaviest of
foolscap, with the blackest of signatures decorating them on every hand.
you?” Kraftmann’s chair
crashed against the wall behind
him as he rose. “By God, I
won’t stand that. You get out
of here!”
“Now, really, Mr. Kraftmann”
—Breyley stood up, too—“I
didn’t want to offend you. I
only made an offer to help you.
I did it because I was a friend
of Rhoda’s. I’m not planning
any legal action against you.”
But Kraftmann had gripped
him by the arm and was leading
him to the door ; not the one
into the lobby, but one that
opened on to the veranda.
“Get Tight outside my house,”
he said, as he pushed him out,
“a man ought to take a gun to
you. Blackmailer, that’s what
you are.”
*
Breyley was sitting in his car
thinking things over when Rhoda
found him.
“It didn’t work out as we
thought this time, either,” he
said to her with a good deal of
resentment. “He was damnably
rude to me. You know, I think
there’s something very suspicious
about him. As soon as I men-
tioned looking at his books he
blew his top. I wonder if he’s
been up to some funny busi-
ness?”
Rhoda was on the verge of
being mortally offended.
“Don’t you dare say anything
like that! I’m sure he wouldn’t
do anything dishonest.”
Breyley became cautious and
calculating.
“I won’t say it’s anything dis-
honest, but it’s certainly some-
thing he doesn’t want us to know
about. I don’t suppose you’d
Want to give me an authority to
go through the books. That
would be the logical way to find
out.
Rhoda was shocked at the
thing,” she said tartly, “even if
I dared act openly against him
like that.”
“But we really must get a look
at those books,” Breyley per-
sisted. “I’ll tell you what. I’ll
bet he’s like all the other
graziers who only touch their
books about once every two
months. Say, you get hold of
them on the quiet and slip them
to me for a quick look—he’d
never find out.”
Rhoda shook her head, but
she was no longer quite so
emphatic.
“Oh, I couldn’t do that.”
“Once I found out what was
wrong with his system,” Breyley
went on quickly and purpose-
fully, “and I don’t mean it’s any-
thing crooked, I could lead up
to it somehow and let him know
where he’s been slipping. Then
if he’s human at all he’d come
round. Nobody could be tough
with a man who’s shown him
how to save thousands. And
youd get your share. Now
what do you think?”
‘I s nearly as bad as the other
way,” Rhoda said doubtfully.
“You think it over,” Breyley
encouraged her, “you’ve got
your rights, you know. He
shouldn’t treat you as if you
were a small girl who can t
understand business or finance,
He should be taught a lesson for
the way he’s behaved to both of
us. It’s up to you to help me
get those books.”
“I’ll think about it,” she said.
“Don’t talk about it any more.
“I think I’ll go,” Breyley said,
“before your father finds I m
still here. I mustn’t forget Ive
been kicked out.”
But as Breyley turned into the
entrance of the Finnsinsignis
avenue a little birdlike cry
caught his ears and drew his
eyes to a figure standing in the
shadow of the first tree, with the
colors of a gorgeously matching
sunset acting as backdrop for
her frock and the glow behind
her softening the outlines of her
face. C ° m '
mand or entreaty to stop,
"I ™«ed ‘o “k you V.kt
tf, teearSs on the
car-window, “if you would go
into some figures with me about
my academy. I want to work
out how big a margin I should
allow between my known
expenses and my expected
income
No limit, ’ Breyley said with
a knowing wink; “no limit
except the sky.”
Viki laughed readily to show
that she could appreciate this
accountancy humor, and Breyley
obviously warmed to her. He
went on with the same kind of
omniscient fun:
That s your profit, so why
should you be rnean Wlth your-
self?” Then he became more
exact.
A limit that will give you a
decent living on the very mini-
mum of expected pupils will go
leaping up and doubling and
trebling once you rake in the
numbers. That s what.you must
aim at, numbers. Pull them in
with advethsmg that pays.”
This sort of talk was very close
to Breyley’s hear,. I, made him
look as ardent as another migM
have looked when quoting
romantic or even erotic poetry.
Vila, understanding him per-
fectly, put a hand on his arm.
“I do wish I had someone like
you to help me launch this. It’s
going to mean so much to me.”
Breyley summed her up
shrewdly. When Viki put her
hand on his arm it was very
different from the appealing way
that Rhoda did it; it was an
actress-trick, designed to get
something without paying for it.
Still, he appreciated the science
of it.
“When you’ve got some firm
figures to work on, you bring
them to me —I’ll go into it
thoroughly with you.”
“Oh, you are good. And so
clever, too.” Viki beamed on
him in a way that brought an
answering change in Breyley’s
well-organised f.acial muscles
without his being aware of it;
then she backed away with a
glance towards the house. “But
I mustn’t keep you here, or
Rhoda might see us.”
She watched his face as she
mentioned her sister’s name,
missing nothing.
“Goodbye, then.”
“Goodbye, Viki.” Breyley
leaned out of the window for a
last look as the car started off
with an unwonted jerk—not the
way a careful fellow like Breyley
treated a car.
A little later Rhoda and
Johnny were having a talk in
the kitchen.
“I’ll tell you what he reminds
me of,” Johnny said, making a
poor pretence that it was an
impersonal and objective
opinion; “one of those blue-
heeler cattle-dogs. They come
up to you looking cautious and
suspicious, but never a hint that
they’ve got anything against you.
But you just take your eye off
them for half a second and
‘Wow!’ they’ve got their teeth
into you.”
“Oh, now, now, Johnny,”
Rhoda said, playfully, but affec-
tionately, because it was so rest-
ful to talk to Johnny after the
strains of Breyley; “you're only
saying that because you’re
jealous.”
“Why shouldn’t I be jealous?”
Johnny’s dark eyes flashed vil-
lainously.
He spent a few moments in
sombre thought; then made up
his mind to say something more.
“You’d be jealous, too, if you
saw how long he was talking to
Viki in the avenue. And the way
he nearly cracked his neck look-
ing back at her —he didn’t look
back like that at you!”
“You don’t miss much, do
you!” Rhoda said to cover up
her apprehension.
CHAPTER V
ON Monday morning, when
Alec was out in the utility
inspecting fences, and straining
the wires in any that required it
until they twanged like harp-
strings, he noticed a black Skoda
car on the main. road going
towards the homestead.
This car, so unusual in the
inland districts of gravel roads,
where everybody who can afford
it has American cars, or Aus-
tralian, had the same upsetting
effect on Alec as the sound of
the air-raid warning used to have
during the war.
The only man he knew who
drove a black Skoda was a man
who did it partly for sentimental
reasons because he too came
from Czechoslovakia: Stefanik,
the art-dealer whose caravan-full
of paintings he had reduced to
a mass of rubbish. Alec idled the
utility quietly behind a clump of
trees and waited to see what
assistance he might get from the
homestead.
If his mother answered the
door she would tell Stefanik
where he was to the best of her
ability, which was not excessive
when it came to remembering the
names of the paddocks or
methods of getting to them. She
was incapable of telling a lie for
anyone’s sake and she didn’t
believe that any good was ever
served by evasion. Viki, on the
other hand, would unhesitatingly
assure Stefanik that her brother
was away, probably she would
say Sydney, and not know the
address.
With Rhoda loyalty and truth
would have a grim struggle, be-
cause she was strong in both.
Johnny would make a bold
effort to misdirect the man and
possibly be caught out. None
of the other men knew enough
(Continued on page 25)


Business in motuan
by John Gilmore
BARE feet seeming
scarcely to leave the
ground with the short
nimble native pace, the
Papuan walked ahead along the
footpad, on either side rank,
shoulder-high kunai yellowing
and brown in the sunlight.
In the heat the sweat darkened
the armpits of his square necked
shirt and the waistband of his
blue rami, where they tucked
together under the broad
Government belt. He was short,
but his body was mature and
muscular, and his walking was
effortless.
From the river-bank the track
followed the contour of the
slopes up into the jungle.
Striding twenty yards behind, the
Australian removed his frayed
straw hat for coolness as they
gained the humid shade.
“Dihori,” he called, “naria
sisina, Toru.”
He squatted, hat on the
ground before him ; sheathed in
khaki shorts, his huge buttocks
rested on the heels of his heavy
boots and leggings. As he drew
a pouch from the pocket of the
army shirt it bulged with the
movement of the thick fat arm.
Returning, the native eyed the
pouch fondly, hands locked
behind him, as the other rolled
a cigarette.
The first wisp of smoke
came, and the large white hand
began to stuff the leather pouch
away again.
“Lau danu, Taubada!” The
quick smirk of the brown
features as he took the extended
tobacco might have been as
much satisfaction as gratitude.
Lau danu. Me, too. In that
language there were no civilities,
no requests, but demands uttered
with varying degrees of
uncertainty.
Resting, they smoked and
talked as their two followers
came up to them ; soft-featured
young native boys, bare-chested
in the country’s fashion, who
waited quiet and a little self-
conscious in earshot of the big
florid white man and the native
in the blue uniform.
Around the group were the
warm stillness and the filtered
green light of the jungle, in their
nostrils the dankness of leaf-
mould and earth that is never
dry under its heavy tangled cover
of timber, of vine and shrub and
undergrowth^
The two men spoke quickly in
Motuan, blue eyes questioning
in the soft pink heated face, the
black eyes under the square
forehead with its fuzz of short
wiry hair passive and latent.
How far was it to the log now,
Toru?
It was only a little way,
Taubada, not very far really.
From there (black finger points
at the sun) as they were walking,
to there (to where the sun would
be in three hours’ time). It
might not even be as far as that,
the Taubada >yas a strong
walker. (Deep 'inhalation of
cigarette). It was good tobacco.
Would the Taubada sell him
some?
The Taubada would give him
some, if the job was all right. He
would give him a packet.
And some cigarette-papers?
Three packets? Toru rolled
smaller cigarettes than the
Taubada, to make the tobacco
last.
Yes, he would give him some
tobacco and some papers and
matches in addition to the
money, for himself, when the
canoe was finished, if the job
was all right.
Silence. %
“Taubada.” The word came
like a reasoned, weighty state-
ment of great importance as
Toru scratched his chest with
stubby fingers. He frowned as
he spat at a large red ant which
paused on a rain-blackened
dead leaf by his feet.
“Yes?” The white man, arms
crossed, rubbed his wet palms on
his rolled sleeves.
“There are now many of my
boys working on your new
canoe.”
X>EHIND them the youngsters
exchanged a few murmered
words, awkwardly, and were
quiet. Alone, they would be
garrulous and irresponsible and
bubbling with high spirits or
rare girlish rages; here, they
were subdued. They were
Taubada Mr. Wilton’s servants,
the Taubada who lived in the
plantation bungalow and saw to
the work and a great deal of the
welfare of a hundred and fifty
of their fellows, and they were
with him in the bush for the
outing and perhaps to help.
And then there was Toru, also
a powerful man, who wore the
Government’s uniform in their
village near the plantation and
had dealings with Government
officers on their patrols. Also
he had the best canoe in the
district, for travelling and
fishing, and the best house and
a garden full of plants the white
men used, and pigs and a
savings-bank book and many
other interests, and was a man to
be respected even without the
official title of Village Coun-
cillor. And the Taubada had
just given him a cigarette from
his own pouch.
“I have had to get more boys
from thfe village for the work
on the logs. They are big logs
and there is much labor, carving
out the wood inside, and shaping
the outside. There is much to be
done.”
“Yes. And you know it must
be done quickly. And well. You
know that I must have this work
done quickly and that I will pay
you. Thirty pounds, as I have
told you.”
At mention of the amount the
councillor sighed.
“There are many boys working
and they are talking.”
“Oh. And what do they say?”
“They say,” Toru glanced—
was it appraisingly?—at the
questioner, “they say they lose
time now.” He shook his head
at the foolishness which men of
affairs have to meet. “They are
young boys. But now the
Christmas is over in the village
it is time for them to go to sign,
to sign for the companies.”
It was mid-year, but Christmas
had a unique meaning for Toru.
He became apologetic. “Many
of the Wanela men are going to
sign, but these must stay for this
work of yours, and they lose
time. And they lose money.”
“What do you mean? I will
pay you. I will pay you the
thirty pounds I said and you can
pay them, when it is finished.”
“Yes. Yes, Taubada. But
they say” : —here he looked away
—“not enough money!”
Silence. Wilton liked Toru.
It was that liking of the able
energetic financier for the able
energetic boy from whom he
buys his papers outside his
office. But this was unexpected,
and might be a bit awkward.
SEVENTY miles down the
coast a neighbor’s copra
was stacking up in the shed,
waiting for the large double-
canoe Wilton was having the
Wanela village boys build, to
ferry it down the river to the
shipping. In the fortnightly
mail had come the note:
“. . . lost my copra canoe in
the flood. Can you get one made
for me up there ? No suitable
logs here, and these island boys
don’t know much about it any-
way. Get old Toru from Wanela
onto it. I’m stuck . . ”
“Tell you what, Toru.”
Wilton appeared unconcerned,
but saw that his boys could
not hear before he went on, “I’ll
throw in an extra five pounds
for yourself. You talk to your
boys. Now, suppose there’s no
trouble, get all finished -next
week, Wednesday, Thursday, do
a good job, all right, I’ll give
you this five pounds. Now, just
for yourself and don’t tell any-
body.”
When he had sent for the
Village Councillor Wilton had
offered thirty pounds. It was
good payment for the work in-
volved, better than laborers were
paid by Ordinance. Toru was to
find the logs—he knew every
tree in the district, for thirty
miles around —have them felled
and lopped, hollowed and
shaped, snigged to the nearest
stream and finished ; ’ shored,
tarred and bound together in the
native style with vine and hard
mangrove poles. Finished, it
would be a very serviceable
craft capable of taking six or
seven tons of copra or stores.
“They are good logs, Taubada.
The timber is very hard and the
canoe will last for many years.
In its time it will carry many,
many tons of copra.”
“All right. And I give you
this five pounds after it is all
done, and the boys have been
paid.”
“The axes are blunt.” This
was not an irrelevancy and
Wilton was not surprised. But
he had weakened and Tom
pressed his point. “The axes are
blunt, the trees are very hard and
a long way from the village.
It is a long way for the boys to
go in the morning to the work.”
The cigarettes were out now.
The two remained seated. The
ant had left the leaf and was
investigating a calloused black
toe. In the background the
young Papuans were examining
a woven armlet one of them had
removed.
The white man produced his
pouch again and began to roll
another smoke. He thought:
Better get this all straight now,
before we go on to look at the
work. He did not offer the
pouch a second time.
“Why are the tools blunt?”
He drew on the cigarette and the
smoke trickled luxuriously from
his pink nostrils. “What are
you talking about, Toru?”
“Taubada. There is only one
file, and it is old and worn
smooth. It would be better if
you give me a new file.”
Wilton assessed this state-
ment. Files were greatly trea-
sured and an item to watch
closely when there were black
fingers present in the plantation
stc J e .
“All right. I’ll give you a file,
Tomorrow. You send your boy
up to me when I have my food
in the morning and I’ll give him
a file for vou ”
‘ Toru was pleased. The old
blighter, thought the plantation
man, will probably keep it and
use river-stones for sharpening
the axes
“And’Taubada. Would not
the work go quickly if you gave
me an adze? There is only one
adze, and it is mine, and if there
were two adzes then two boys
could work with them, and the
others with the big axes and the
little axes. I would like another
adze.”
In their Motuan there was no
word for this ; it was a “like-an-
axe-thing,” a “wood-cut-like-an-
axe-thing.”
“Yes, all right, Tom. I will
give you an adze. But you must
see only an experienced boy uses
it, and he must look after it and
give it back to me when the
work is done.”
“Of course, Taubada.” But
Toru had known many, many
Taubadas, and perhaps if he was
pleased with the canoe this one
might give him the adze, or it
might “get lost,” or it might be
forgotten.
“Also there is tobacco. The
boys have nothing to smoke.
They smoke, they are strong,
they work harder.”
Yl/'ILTON agreed. That was
’* fair enough. Trade tobacco,
strong black tarry twist, was
very popular both as a smoke,
rolled in newspaper, and for its
trade value.
“I’ll give ’em two sticks a week
each while they’re working and
two or maybe three when they’re
finished.”
“And paper?”
“Yes.” Newspaper for this
purpose was in great demand.
The native squirmed a little
and inserted a finger into one
ear, digging industriously. He
paused a moment before he went
on:
“Now, look. What do you
think?” Not so impassive now,
he spoke more quickly, Motuan
words running together.
“This must be finished soon.
The other Taubada has no
canoe and his copra is not get-
ting down to the beach for the
ships to Port Moresby. I’ll tell
you what we do.” He was
cordial, enthusiastic, even ex-
cited. “I will tell my boys they
must camp out there on the job,
in the bush. In the morning
they waste much time going
from the village to the logs, and
the sun is there ” —stabbing a
finger —“before they start. So,
they camp out there and in the
morning, sunrise, they begin.
But the women cannot go, to
take them food; it is too far.
So you will give them rations
to take with them for food.’
“Rations?”
“Yes. What do you think,
Taubada? Isn’t it better? And
perhaps some of the women can
{Continued on page 24)
LIMPETS
Down there on the dark rock sharp to the foot,
browsing on greenstuff as the cattle do,
the limpets.
whose houses are mobile pyramids of stone.
Deep in the press of the tide in the dim light
where the to-fro drag of the waves moves the weed-
fronds
whose tips describe their endless sensuous curves,
very like tanks and other armored machines,
the limpets deploy.
Now who would ever believe,
seeing these creatures when the water is gone,
clamped fast, fixed rigid,
cementing themselves at a touch,
they lift their skirts and dance a slow pavane
when the cold green water replaces the hostile sun?
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
OLD ACQUAINTANCE
(1) Poor Miss Perrot,
Poor Miss Perrot with her atrophied heart
And her fiftyish wrinkling face
Believes in a place for everything
And everything in its place.
She thinks that people she knows should be
Predictable as the tide.
If she ’phones the Smiths on Thursday night
They should be at their own hearthside.
But if her friends, by some mischance
Utter a naughty word,
She will tense to horror and yet convey
That not a thing was heard.
She could be rattled till her perished self
So long, so carefully hid
Banged like crusts in a canister
With a thoroughly stuck-fast lid.
Poor meticulous Miss Perrot
Has never known love or stress
Or any of the sprawling joys implicit
• In life’s untidiness.
(2) Dear Mr. Brown.
So! after twelve years I meet you, Mr. Brown,
And, as you wrote, there truly is no change—
Your face as thin, your head still only half bald.
I find the circumstance curious and strange.
Altered myself, my thoughts had altered you;
Five years I hated you, and disliked for five.
Then, for two seasons, had forgotten Brown
Till here, all self preserved, he stands alive!
Since last we met I’ve often conjured you.
For many an explanation you had your use.
THAT Mr. Brown has been my worst experience,
THIS Mr. Brown has been my best excuse.
What biting words I planned to say if we
Ever by some accident should meet!
Goodbye, dear changeless Brown, your memory is
More precious than revenge however sweet.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


A strong people, with plenty of food
Missionary to Gippsland
By MARY H. WALKER
TODAY, seen from the sand-
bar that seals the lake, the
mission is a cluster of red-
roofed, white-walled build-
ings dominated by the church
steeple, all set on a headland
overlooking the water. Named
after Tyers, first Land Commis-
sioner of Gippsland, it is the
most beautiful and secluded of
all the Gippsland lakes, although
isolated from them by several
miles of bush country.
The mission territory is a
tract of 4000 acres, some of it
farmed, the rest stringy bark
forest, relieved by groves of
banksia and wild-cherry, with
apple - box sheltering the
approach to the sandy beaches
and mahogany-gums crowning
the headland. Its mild climate
belongs more to warmer
northern waters than to cooler
southern seas; in its vicinity,
along the Prince’s Highway, the
traveller finds the first hint of
sub-tropical jungle in its blue-
gum gullies rich in lilly-pillys and
orangewood lashed together by
native tecoma and clematis, or
supplejack as the Gippsland
bushman aptly names it.
At the mission the blacks are
well cared for, there is a school,
a hospital, a church. The
organist, a bright and intelligent
woman, is the last surviving full-
blood. She bears the marks of
ancient tribal scars on her breast.
On the roll-of-honor are the
names of three Lake Tyers
blacks who did not return from
war, and, on the inner door of
the church, a brass tablet records
the ministry of John Bulmer,
1861-1913.
John Bulmer left another
record which I read with par-
ticular pleasure—notes dictated
to Harry Barrett, an educated
Queensland aborigine who set
them down in beautiful calli-
graphy. Most pioneering
reminiscences follow a somewhat
similar course, along which Bush
and Blacks loom in menacing
proportions, Bulmer weaves a
quiet but contrasting pattern of
a life in which primitive condi-
tions are incidental—the blacks
are friends. The record came
into my hands through the
courtesy of Bulmer’s grandsons,
and I am indebted to two of his
surviving family for information
which enabled me to fill in the
gaps.
He was born in 1833 in
Sunderland, Durham, and was
baptised in the church where the
Venerable Bede had preached:
a thousand-year tradition which
seems to have made a deep
impression on him. An early
memory is of a motto cast in
iron on the bridge near his home
—Nils Desperandum Auspicix
Deo —and this, too, was taken
to heart. Sunderland was then
the third shipbuilding city in
England, and, as a lad, Bulmer
found plenty to interest him in
the wooden ships. His name,
like many on the east coast, was
of Scandinavian origin. There
was a “Brian Bulmer the Bold”
in Scott’s Marmion.
+ 4-
An orphan, but not an
unhappy or neglected one,
Bulmer was reared by his uncle’s
wife, and apprenticed to a
cabinet-maker in 1849. In 1852
he sailed with his master for
Melbourne. Near the end of the
voyage the cabinet-maker fell
ill with brain-fever and died,
leaving a widow and three young
children. “Whom,” says Bulmer,
“in his more lucid moments he
committed to my care.” A
formidable bequest to a young
man intent on making his way
in a new country. He continues
—“On arriving at Hobson’s Bay,
after being 112 days at sea, we
were very glad to get on terra-
firma again. Some of the pas-
sengers went ashore and brought
back a copy of the ‘Argus,’ this
was a treat as we thus expected
to learn something of the condi-
tions that awaited us. We were
interested in the advertisement-
column ; one portly gentleman
was appointed reader; as he read
aloud one and another would
say ‘That will do me,’ until a
most astonishing one was read.
‘Wanted —a Governor to the
People of Victoria,’ At this the
portly gentleman looked up as
though the position would suit
him. I dare say it would have
done so, as he seemed born to
command, but on reading 'the
next advertisement, ‘Wanted —a
Colonial Secretary, apply to the
Lieutenant-Governor,’ he saw
it was only a political squib, and
the reader’s hopes of preferment
fell below zero.”
However, when they landed
everyone found work. Bulmer
got a job at £5 a week “which,
for a mere boy, was good pay,”
and a clergyman found them a
house. At least:
It was hardly a house but a
shed for which we paid two
pounds a week, water was ten
shillings a cask and everything
else was equally dear. For two
years I worked as a carpenter,
and as I was in debt to my late
master’s estate for passage money
and tools, it took me some time to
clear myself. I paid Mrs. Eggers
£2 per week for my board and
lodging and put aside the rest to
clear off my debt.
In 1854 the widow and family
decided to return to England
and Bulmer was free to move
about the country. He went
goldmining at Dunolly, then
known as Burnt Creek. But the
gold-fever soon abated;
I stayed at it only a month.
Digging for gold is not my forte.
I would have made more effort
had the gold been nearer the sur-
face, but when holes had to be
sunk to seventy feet deep . . .
But Burnt Creek was an influ-
ence on his development.
There I first noticed the
aboriginals, who were in a most
degraded state, drink and de-
bauchery doing their work to-
wards their extermination. I
thought that something should be
done for them, but at that time
I did not know what to do.
Leaving Burnt Creek for
Ballarat he found the town in a
very unsettled state. “Down with
the Licence Fee,” was painted
everywhere and men were drill-
ing to resist the law. He and his
mate travelled on and took work
on a road near Buninyong at
ten shillings a day. Then back to
Melbourne.
In Melbourne other placards
caught Bulmer’s eye. These
announced a missionary meeting.
Bulmer attended, and there
heard Thomas Goodwin report
on the recent search for a
mission-site on the Darling. The
Rev. Chase, a notable figure in
the Anglican Church in Mel-
bourne, then called for volunteers
to help Mr. Goodwin. John
Bulmer hesitated as, being a
Methodist, he felt his services
might not be acceptable to the
Church of England. He explained
his difficulty to Dean McCartney.
“If a sinner asked you ‘What
must X do to be saved,’ ” asked
the dean, “what would you
reply?”
“I would quote John 3.16 to
him, sir,” Bulmer said firmly.
He was accepted. But,
strangely enough, he was not
licensed by the church until
nearly fifty years later. Bulmer
went to the Darling and, later, to
Gippsland.
Gippsland was wild country
then; a few cattle-runs, taking
up the vast central plain where
the rivers joined. Gold had been
discovered recently, but, as yet,
there had been no great influx
of whites. Bulmer’s guide on his
first visit was Tulaba, a man of
the Brabralung tribe of the
Kurnai nation. His father had
been a tribal leader and his
father’s brother had been the
great Bruthen-munjie who, before
the coming of the whites, had
been a native hero, said to have
been able to run down a
kangaroo and to kill it with his
bare hands.
+ +
Bulmer presented a letter of
introduction to Archibald
McLeod, son of the founder of
Bairnsdale station, was kindly
received and passed-on to John
McLeod, of Buchan station. The
Melbourne committee had
selected a mission-site at Buchan
which, unlike so many Gippsland
place-names, is not of Scottish
derivation. In his book on the
tribes of south-east Australia Dr.
Howitt says it is derived from
bukkin-munjie, meaning “the
place of the bag,” i.e., the bag
woven from grass and carried by
the women.
Bulmer soon found that the
chosen site was little more than a
swamp after rain. The Buchan
blacks took him hunting to Lake
Tyers, where he and one William
Planner picked a more suitable
site —isolated from the gold-
fields, few whites in the neighbor-
hood, an abundance of fish in the
lake and plenty of game in the
bush. He went back to Mel-
bourne and the committee
approved his choice. He then
made an important decision.
“Finding a lady who wished to
go to the mission,” as he naively
put it, “we were married and
almost at once started for Gipps-
land in the steamer Keora bound
for Port Albert.” This little port
on Corner Inlet was then in
general use, as the bogs and '
swamps of central Gippsland
made road-travel very difficult.
There was no road for a
vehicle to Lake Tyers, but “The
Lord opened up the way for me
in a remarkable manner. At the
port was a small vessel taking in
cargo which was bound for
Lakes Entrance. A gentleman,
Mr. Stirling, told me to put all
I had on board, so one more of
my difficulties was smoothed
away.” Mr. Stirling landed Mrs.
Bulmer within six miles of Lake
Tyers and John rode on to the
Entrance,
Across an arm of the lake from
the site of the station, the
Bulmers made a temporary home
with the Stirlings until they built
their first hut, which Bulmer
called “a simple affair without
windows and with a sheet of bark
for a door. It was a covering
from the weather, but in it Mrs.
Bulmer was quite at home. Our
next house, though more pre-
tentious, was still bark-roofed,
but later we built a weatherboard
house with palings for walls and
split studs for rafters.”
Bulmer describes the blacks as
part - civilised ; many were
employed as stockmen on the
stations. At Buchan station Mrs.
McLeod’s sisters had taught some
of the women to make their own
dresses.
The king of Gippsland was
Tommy Bumberrah, who wore a
brass - plate. “Unfortunately,”
says Bulmer, “he expected others
to hold him in as high esteem as
he held himself. He wished to
learn to read, but because he held
himself so high he never
succeeded.”
To change the habits of Stone
Age men was not easy. But the
chief evils were modern ones, “I
think they had been too long
among a class of people who had
corrupted them. To cure the new
evils they have learnt is harder
than to get them to change their
old heathenish ways. The
example of people from a
Christian community, or who
called themselves Christians, was
very hard to deal with.”
At first the old blackfellow law
of elopement caused - great
trouble. The usual punishment
for a guilty couple was death.
After a time Bulmer persuaded
the blacks to allow the women to
choose their own husbands, and
so removed the cause of many
elopements. More broadminded
than most missionaries of his
day, Bulmer kept as much as
possible to the native marriage-
laws. With his teaching a
sinister brand of witchcraft went
out of fashion. But, as well as
sorcerers, there were Birrararks,
a sort of benevolent magicians
who professed to a spirit of
prophecy and practised
ventriloquism. Bulmer regrets
their passing. Regretfully, after
fifty years of teaching, he notes
the deterioration of the blacks.
He speaks of their kindness and
simplicity, and can understand
their failings:
Even their vice of murder was
forgivable. Their tempers were
ungovernable so that a man often
hit his wife harder than he in-
tended, although black skulls
could stand a lot.
One such victim of tempera-
ment complained to Bulmer after
his sudden bereavement; “My
wife is gone in the temper.”
Killing a few old steers, he
suggests, may be considered fair
enough as a sort of peppercorn
compensation for interference
with game and hunting lands.
He never had cause to fear
injury from the blacks at any
time, he says. He admits that he
found the blacks very slow to
forget an injury, but they
admired a man who stood up to
them.
“Take the black away from
his environment,” he warns,
“educate him, and he is often
capable of showing great mental
improvement. Return him to his
tribe and he sinks back to the
old level*”
Again: “If I had to choose
between an educated black and
an unsophisticated one I would
undoubtedly choose the latter. I
respect the memory of my friends
who were the older blacks. In '
their own simple childish way
they accepted the simple truths
of the Gospel, but I found it
impossible to make them develop
a sense of duty.”
Bulmer considered the Gov-
ernment treated the blacks well
in the matter of food and
clothing.
Baron von Mueller, the
botanist, kept in touch with
Bulmer, who collected many
specimens for him. To Dr.
Howitt, writing his book on the
native tribes of south-east Aus-
tralia, Bulmer was a valuable
and oft-quoted source of
information. He was a student
of native legends, in which he
found something of the luminous
clarity of Greek myths. He
gives the Kurnai version of the
Flood.
At one time there was no
water. It was all contained in a
great frog who did not care if
the whole world died of thirst.
Various animals tried their skill
to amuse the frog, hoping the
water would escape if he laughed.
All failed until an eel stood on
his tail, which so tickled the frog
that he laughed. The water ran
out until a great flood came.
Then the white man Loom came,
and saved many people in a
canoe. As a reward for his
efforts he kept one woman,
Moorcat, for himself. She
escaped to the mainland so, in
revenge. Loom daubed himself
with marloo (pipeclay) and
attacked the mainland people.
Before he could do any damage
he was turned into a stone which
may be seen at Port Albert. The
pelican is still white from the
pipeclay.
Metung, on Lake King, was
known to the blacks as Baan
from the following legend. Once
the aborigines were camped there
catching fish to prepare for a
great feast. They had an old
and toothless dog with them and
no one bothered to give him any
fish to eat. At last the hungry
dog spoke: “You do not give
me my fish.” The greedy and
thoughtless people were turned
to stone, and the dog turned into
another boulder which stood
high on the bank above the lake
while the stone representing the
greedy people was in the water.
Unfortunately the dog-stone on
the bank was blasted by a road-
gang, but the stone in the water
can still be seen.
The Monaro blacks paid the
Kurnai visits and brought some
of their legends with them. They
told of the origin of the soda-
water spring on the present road
between Cooma and Bombala.
Water was very scarce, only an
emu had a secret supply. A bat
flew after him, following him
through a hole in the ground
when he disappeared. In a cave
a huge rock fell and a plentiful
supply of water gushed out.
+ +
A Monaro black told Bulmer
the tale of Jubeen the cannibal
woman, as told by the Delegate
mothers to their children. In a
mountainous district lived an old
woman with two dogs which she
kept some distance from her
camp. Messengers from various
tribes had disappeared in her
vicinity, the real reason being
that she enticed them to her camp
and when they went to sleep
the dogs killed them at Jubeen’s
command. She would then cut
up the bodies and cook them in
an aboriginal oven. Two men,
resolving to solve the mystery,
went to the old woman’s camp,
where they were well received.
They threw down their possum-
rugs on the place where they
prepared their beds, went away
quietly, and hid behind a tree to
watch. The old woman, seeing
the rugs, thought the men were
rolled in them and called “Hist!”
to her dogs. The dogs rushed
out of the dark bush and tore
at the rugs. The men killed
Jubeen with their jag-spears.
There is a Kurnai Pied Piper
story. The men were away hunt-
ing, the woman busy about the
camp when an old man, a por-
cupine, lured the children away
into a gigantic white-ant hill,
where he entombed them. The
women sent for other tribes to
(Continued on page 24)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
sdf
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
-
(Please add exchange to country cheques )
go, to cook their food in the
camp ; yes, that would be best,
and look after the rations so the
men will not have to cook and
can work all the time.”
“I don’t know. How many
people, how long?”
This turn was a new one.
More cost, but the idea did have
possibilities. The work might be
done sooner.-
Tom considered deeply,.
“Ah, six, seven, Paigeni and
his brother . . .” He reckoned
on his fingers. “Raka and his
woman, Leba, Aisa-Tenu, Tau,
Rom, Warigeriga and his
brother, Raka-Api and his
woman to cook, Koivi . . .”
Everybody in the councillor’s
village had something to contri-
bute ; every man, woman and
child, it seemed, was vitally in-
terested in the effort to prevent
the deterioration of stored plan-
tation copra. Everybody could
do something, and everybody, he
earnestly pledged, would. And
everybody, it appeared, would
have to be fed or paid or armed
with axes,, files, hammers, chisels,
saws and nails and wire and all
else, at plantation expense, for
the work to go quickly and
smoothly and satisfactorily.
That this was an emergency
Toru had been quick to see;
the Taubadas wanted something
badly, and that something he
had quite a monopoly of, in that
little district.
He would not haggle; he
would not demand ; direct action
was not his way, and it was cer-
tainly not politic where Tau-
badas were concerned.
But gradually as the days
passed and the work progressed,
as the piles of wood-chips and
shavings mounted around the
logs in the bush, as tracks were
cleared and long vines cut and
laid for snigging, dribbles of
materials found their way from
the plantation-store to his vil-
lage. There he was the allocator
and distributor, and in this he
was not selfish, but neither was
he extravagant or foolish.
THE day when the two
roughly shaped canoes were
brought down into the river was
one of intense activity. Tom was
everywhere, shouting, directing,
exhorting, as every soul from
Wanela strained at the vines,
heaving and yelling, or levered
with rough bush poles, or ran to
shift the rollers on which the
canoes slid.
One was handy to the stream,
and it was soon floating in the
water, tied to the mangroves;
but the other presented a prob-
lem. It lay in a little valley a
half-mile back and four miles
upstream. For it a wide track
had to be cleared through the
jungle, and it was a half-day’s
work for the whole village to
manhandle it up on to the crest
between where it lay and the
river. But from there it was
easy going, downhill, the two
hundred or so people cheering
and laughing and shouting as
they ran with it.
Then the long paddle with
them down to the salt water,
and some more straining on the
vines to beach the logs, side by
side, for the finishing.
Like most planters, Wilton
breakfasted late; “brunch” they
called it; the morning meal be-
tween ten and eleven when the
day’s work was well in hand and
the labor-boys were fully occu-
pied ; the copra-boys, the fire-
men and lads in the driers, the
weeders, tractor-boys, drivers,
boys working on roads and
bridges and buildings.
Then, as he smoked a pipe and
listened to the note in the little
estate sawmill, would be the
Cough. The Cough would sound
once, then, if ignored, again,
louder. And again, until he rose
and went to the veranda-rail of
the bungalow.
The Cough was Tom, smiling
to have gained attention, with
his daily progress report, a
healthy flow of the versatile
Motuan.
Raka was away on the island
today with two boys, on the
island where the best mangrove
grew, cutting and barking
poles . . . The smoothing was
almost done on both logs, and
they had thought it best to put
in another, a stronger shore in
the bow of one of them . . .
They would be ready to start
tarring tomorrow . . .
Tau had cut his foot and
would the Taubada look at it
and put something on it from
the plantation hospital? .. . One
of the fools had broken his
bush-knife . . . But Taubada
would give him another . . .
■yoILTON was able to write in
a week’s time:
Dear George,
Your canoe is finished and I
am waiting for good weather to
send Torn along the coast with
it. It looks all right. Your
account here stands something
like this:
£ s. d.
Boys .. .. .. 30
£1 each bonus to
Paigeni, Raka, Tau
and Koivi .. .. 4
Bonus, Torn .. .. 5
Tools, wire, nails, cop-
per, tar and sun-
dries ... .. 4
Rami-cloth for Tom’s
worxian .. .. 10 0
Rice, flour and sugar
11 boys and 4
women ~.. 18 10 0
Trade tobacco .. 7 0 0
Tinned milk for
Tom’s baby .1 0 0
Cartridges, Torn .. 10 0
A half a bullock, a pig
and a bag of flour
to Wanela village ... 18 0 0
Sundries in rations,
rami, etc. .. ... 4 10 0
£93 0 0
But it was three weeks before
the answer was delivered by a
police-boy, out to bring in a
native from a neighboring vil-
lage to the District Officer for
questioning, and carrying the
plantation mail from down the
coast:
. Torn didn’t do too badly
out of it at all. He didn’t give
me your letter until he was
about to return, and I didn’t
read it until he was well down
the river. By then I had given
the old coot a fiver myself, fed
and looked after his crew for
three days, lashed them out a
fistful of trade-tobacco each and
let them help themselves to our
gardens. Said they were short
of food. Simple people, our
Papuans.... ”
help them release their children.
First came Jarrah (kangaroo),
Tharragang (wallaby), Mennak
(kangaroo-rat), Miowera (emu)
and Piaak (mouse), but they all
failed. Then Bathalook (goanna)
bored a hole in the side of the
hill, and although they did not
save their children they pulled
out the porcupine. They all threw
their spears at him and they are
still sticking in him, and their
clubs left two indented marks
on his head to this day.
John Bulmer made use of his
opportunity to study and record
the domestic side of tribal life.
The tribe, even then, was fast
disintegrating. Mothers would
sing their babies to sleep with
songs such as — wallaba, wallaba,
bringingin ga, woolook, woolook
wa (I smell, I smell, I got this
way by myself), half-lullaby,
half-riddle. The story would be
of a child going hunting by him-
self who would find a bird or
animal and would pretend to
kill it. By the song and the
mother’s actions the child must
guess the animal. If too far from
the answer he would be told he
was too high. Sometimes he
might be a week before he
guessed the correct answer.
Wrestling was popular. A man
would hold a bunch of emu
feathers and an opponent would
try to wrest it from him.
Boomerang - throwing was
another competitive sport. They
would throw to see how close it
would return,' also how far it
might be thrown in a straight
line. The real purpose of the
boomerang was its use in war.
In the tourneys a man would be
stationed on a site about forty
yards from the thrower. The
weapon was thrown to strike the
ground a little ahead of the
thrower, then it would bound off
towards its goal—the man
stationed with his shield or
bamerook in his hand. With this
he would skilfully ward off the
blow. Every black was very
careful about the making of a
boomerang. It must have no
twists; ends must be sharp, to
cut; sharpened to a fine, edge,
it was hardened in fire.
The game of narook —hunting
the wombat —was a realistic
game of hide-and-seek. Dilk, a
game not unlike rounders, was
played with a small ball
passed from one player to
another. The Birrararks used
to provide much sport with
their ventriloquism and other
acts, among them a sup-
posedly magical act, with
curious echoes of the Indian
rope-trick. They professed to
float on air, using a mysterious
rope called marrangrang.
Sometimes four men
Jipperooks—used to pipeclay
themselves and entertain the
camp with grotesque clown-
ing. The idea seemed-to be that
anyone could give these actors
orders and they were obliged to
obey them.
The Gippsland blacks were
very demonstrative. After a
death the corpse was kept for
several days and friends and
relatives rubbed their heads and
bodies with the liquid that
exuded from it.
Beliefs in an after-life vary
according to locality, but on the
Kurnai belief Bulmer gives the
following information: “They
called the spirit ‘Gnowk,’ and
believed it went to rest in a land
of plenty of game. When the
moon looked red it was a sign
that the spirits were having good
hunting. After a man died they
said his spirit hung around the
camp for some time to see about
his wife and children, but as soon
as they were settled he made
his departure. An old man died
at Orbost and, as his spirit was
still at the camp, everything was
thrown into commotion. His
goods were left about in all sorts
of strange places. His wife said
his visits would not cease until
she was married to a certain
man. The camp insisted on her
speedy remarriage, and when this
took place, it was once more at
rest. In its passage to the hunt-
ing country the spirit passed
through nettles, and on the other
side of the nettles was game in a
land of plenty. The mourners
chopped their heads and clawed
their cheeks, but not for long.”
On the Murray River the
blacks made ovens to cook their
food. Big stones were heated
red-hot in a big fire, then some
of the stones were laid on the
ground and a layer of wet grass
was put on them before the meat
was put in position. Then came
more stones, then more meat,
then more hot stones, the whole
being covered with earth so that
the meat would cook slowly. In
Gippsland the Kurnai had no
cookery utensils, merely roasting
their game and fish on the coals.
For plates they used a piece of
bark or a few gumleaves.
Bulmer says that to see a
blackfellow at his best you must
see him with plenty of food in
his camp. “He will then eat and
afterwards he will lie down on
his back, and with a stick in
each hand he will beat time and
will sing himself to sleep.” The
Gippsland blacks Bulmer calls
“a strong people, with plenty of
food.” The gathering of that
food interested him greatly.
“They were expert in catching
fish and in spearing them in the
shallows. Their fish-nets were
made of grass, and their hunting-
spears were tipped with flint or
later with glass. It was a pleasure
to see the men doing up their
spears every time they went
hunting. They generally half-
roasted their meat before they
brought it home from an expedi-
tion.”
Until they saw the whaling-
ships at Twofold Bay, the blacks
were very afraid of the sea,
which they called narkabunda
or “the back of the world.” The
canoes were propelled by a long
stick called gendook, which
could be used sitting or standing.
In deep water it was propelled
by two pieces of bark about 6in.
long called wrail. The paddling
was similar to the movement of
a swan propelling itself through
the water with its feet. The man
used both hands and went along
at a great rate. The women
when fishing also used the
canoes, and they were most
necessary to the men when they
were hunting giddi or moulting
swans. The Gippsland canoes
were very seaworthy. A long,
straight sheet of bark (stringy-
bark or mountain-ash) was
selected and the ends were
thinned by stripping the outer
coat of bark. Ilien the sheet, or
shell, was made pliable, the ends
were gathered-up like a bag, and
sewn with stringybark thread.
A rib at each end, lashed with
rope (also woven from s'tringy-
bark), kept the canoe in shape.
“The fish-spear was made of
two pieces of sharpened bone
from the small bone of a
kangaroo’s leg, fixed to the end
of a reed and tied with the sinew
taken from a possum's or a
kangaroo’s tail. At night they
fished with a torch and were most
successful by night or day.
“Both in Gippsland and on
the Murray they made them-
selves beautiful rugs out of
possum skins, marking them in
an artistic way and coloring
them with the materials within
their reach. The patterns were
strictly aboriginal, containing the
forms of birds or snakes that they
saw. In Gippsland they made
comfortable winter-camps from
sheets of stringybark.”
Today the managers of the
mission have by no means a
trouble-free life. On the surface
the blacks are more sophisticated
—they travel by taxi, they go to
the pictures, there is a peroxide-
blonde in their ranks —but under-
neath their lighter skins is still the
dark pigment of fear and super-
stition. To them the mraarghs
are still a horrifying reality;
when a few are walking together
in the dark they constantly add
“I suppose you heard our shares slumped rather badly
this morning ?”
up their numbers to make sure
that an unwelcome mraargh
hasn’t joined them. They fear
high gales and whirlwinds, be-
lieving that a death will follow
one. Patients sometimes are
treated with native remedies
before the mission nurse sees
them. Pelicans abound, but they
always cause a wave of excite-
ment among the women when
flying near the station —“Who is
next?” —for pelicans bring black
babies. Strangely enough, they
are afraid that wild blacks will
attack them: a lingering race-
memory of raids by the Omeo
tribes. But they have lost their
arts of hunting. Fishing, says the
manager, is now done best in
working hours. When their
language and their bushlore
went, they lost their dignity.
There have been many changes
since the Rev. Bulmer’s day.
among them the razing of the
fine orchard he planted. It had
to go because the blacks persisted
in eating unripe fruit, with
natural consequences.
Although none of the present
inmates of the mission-station
personally remember John
Bulmer, his name is not for-
gotten. X spoke of him to one of
the older men. “I never knew
him,” he said thoughtfully. “But
I am told he was a very fine old
gentleman.”


GLADYS
MONCRIEFF
Welcomes You fo
"THE PRESIDENT
STARMAKER
SHOW"
Every Monday night at 8.30,
Australia’s Queen of Song —
Gladys Moncrieff —presents five
potential stars of tomorrow.
Every sixth week the winners of
the previous five programmes
compete for the President Award
of £lOO, which the winner will
receive to help him or her further
their career. The talent-filled
“Starmaker Show” is presented
by the makers of President
Refrigerators on
268 - SAW - 4BH
SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2CA 2WL 2LF 2PK
2MG 2LT 2MW 3CV 4GY 6WB
6MD 6BY 7LA
She MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
m
1 ■
m
Quality
need not be® I
expensive J
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high qualit;
watches in the
La vina
range.
are priced from
only £l4/15/-.
from only £l2/15/-.
JL Every LAVINA has a non >
magnetic escapement and a
17-jewelled movement.
Ladies’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
Gent’s
17-jeweUed
Lavinas are priced
LAViNA
WAT
4L ihfux 4 Uiiifrto
about the situation. His father
would direct Stefanik straight to
Alec because he not only believed
in facing things, but also in mak-
ing other people pay for their
sins.
After an interval at the home-
stead the Skoda came bouncing
on the road towards the paddock
where Alec was working. He
had an impulse to evade it, as
he could have done quite easily
in the undulating 15,000-acre
holding of which he knew every
inch. But since the Czech would
probably return to the homestead
and await him there, Alec de-
cided to go and meet him and
get the unpleasant business over.
The Skoda stopped at the foot
of a rather rough incline, and
two men got out in that
gymnastic manner, that people
have to adopt in emerging from
small, low-slung cars. Stefanik
shook the folds out of his clothes
and arranged himself, bald head
and all, in a position most favor-
able for the intake of the greatest
possible amount of sunlight.
Alec could not refrain from
smiling at these traits which he
had noticed on Stefanik’s
previous visit, so surprising in
one whom one would expect to
be coldly intent on screwing out
as much money as possible from
his victim.
Stefanik’s appearance was dis-
arming; round his bald patch a
ring of soft, fluffy hair gave him
a gentle, friarlike appearance
which was augmented by big,
mild blue eyes. His mouth and
nose were of a generous size,
sensuous rather than strong.
When he saw Alec smiling his
own face lit up too, and he
rushed across to shake his hand
before Alec had time to get out
of his vehicle. Then he nodded
across to his colleague to take
note of the friendly relations, as
if this was somehow significant.
The other man was a little dark
fellow with a dramatic black
moustache and an unfriendly
squint. He was introduced by
the rather apt name of Doctor
Magyk. He bowed formally to
Alec without a word.
“A renowned authority on the
Old Master oil-paintings of
Europe,” Stefanik assured Alec.
The doctor had a brief-case
under his arm which he
immediately opened, taking out
documents and placing them on
the car bonnet, but always keep-
ing a hand on them while Alec
was near.
“Document number one,”
Stefanik said, speaking his
English fairly well, as if he had
rehearsed every word, while his
associate watched, and listened
with a tenseness which seemed
to make Stefanik nervous;
“Inventory of oil-paintings sold
by me with names of artists,
dates and prices ; buyers’ names
and addresses with duplicates jf
receipts. Document number
two: inventory of pictures in
caravan at time of accident, with
names of artists and dates.”
He stopped, waiting for the
ne xt document, but instead of
producing it the doctor fixed his
eyes on Stefanik’s face with a
fiercely accusing expression.
„ nh T f t » Stefanik
mutt ’ d embarrassed Then in
t «nd
arus h : y es I rKollect, and
P nces * ’ faded “Verv
S
im P ortanf „ ’ - v ’
and pnces ‘
The dark man, still speechless,
nodded as though to say, “I’ll
say it’s important,” but he
hurriedly put the next paper
down, seeming to disapprove
strongly of an inclination on
Stefanik’s part to fraternise with
Alec.
“Document three. A statement
signed by the directors of art
galleries in Prague, Vienna,
Berlin, Paris and London record-
ing the current values of paint-
ings by artists named in docu-
ments one and two. Document
four. An estimate of value of
paintings lost in accident based
on information in documents
three and one.
“Document five. A clearance
to be signed by the said Stefanik
and given to the said A. Kraft-
on the receipt of eight-
thousand pounds.”
All the. documents looked
terrifyingly authentic to Alec
typed on the whitest and heaviest
of foolscap with the blackest of
signatures decorating them on
every hand, and the silent doctor
standing guard over them like a
watchdog. The only thing tha
relieved him at all was, quite
paradoxically, the enormous
amount claimed. Had it been
eight-hundred, or even something
over a thousand, he would have
gone grimly into the ways and
means of raising it; but when it
came 'to a matter of eight-
thousand pounds it got beyond
negotiation and entered the stage
of litigation,
“I’ll take those papers and
show them to my solicitors,”
Alec said - , J „
He took a step for ward, but
the § rim doctor crouched over
them grow|ed , He said
somedl ing unintelligible to
Stefanik which Stefanik
interpreted:
“Ah, twos ; ah, doubles ; ah,
copies. Yes, copies. Copies will
be se nt to you, but we do not
SU ggest going to lawyers. If
lawyers of Australia are like
lawyers of Czechoslovakia then
it will cost you eighteen-thousand
pounds and I will get two-
thousand pounds. So much
better for two of us if you now
give me eight-thousand pounds.
All this talk was apparently
not according to plan, for the
doctor was watching Stefanik
with the most suspicious eyes.
He shot something more at
Stefanik, who nodded in dutiful
if reluctant agreement, and said
to Alec with a pained expression
and an automatic intonation.
“This claim is the very minimum,
and is only proffered on the
understanding that it will be met
immediately. Should this
proposal be refused, we give no
assurance that the amount shall
not be substantially increased
when taken to the law-courts.”
All the time the dark man s
lips moved with Stefanik’s. If,
as Alec suspected, he knew no
English, he had certainly
memorised the number and
possibly the sounds of the words
to be spoken.
“It is quite impossible to reach
a settlement now,” Alec replied,
becoming stilted and formal
himself. “As I said before, I
shall need to consult my legal
advisers and employ my own art-
experts.”
At that Stefanik turned
abruptly on Magyk and battered
him with a torrent of language.
The doctor came back at him
with much waving of arms and
flashing of eyes; they shouted
and exclaimed at each other in
a manner which would have led
Alec to believe that they were
quarrelling bitterly, if he had not
travelled abroad with the Army
and witnessed conversations in
many foreign lands. At length
Stefanik turned to Alec with the
fruit of the dramatic discussion;
“Much better not to have
lawyers who waste both our
moneys. Better let us go to your
family and they agree with us.
Better no lawyers, and they help
you pay the moneys.”
Alec wondered what his father
would be likely to do if they
confronted him with such
demands. He laughed aloud.
Both men watched him in the
gravest concern as if the laughter
showed that their case had
received a serious setback.
“My father is a very big,
strong man,” Alec told them,
“and he is a very bad-tempered,
wilful and reckless man, too. He
once shot a man who annoyed
him. You can come and talk
to him if you like, but for your
own safety I advise you against
it. At least you ought to make
some inquiries about him in
Jindulla first, then you can
decide if it’s worth the risk.”
This took an astonishingly
long time to interpret to the
doctor, with a new series of
questions and answers, exclama-
tions and contradictions. They
appeared to be much more
impressed than Alec had
expected, so he followed it up:
“I wish you would come to
see my father. That would be
the best way to reach a quick
settlement. I’m just as anxious
to settle it as you are.”
Another violent discussion;
then Stefanik informed Alec of
their weighty conclusion. They
would return to Jindulla, since
it was now. lunch-time, and
decide there whether or not to
come and see his father.
“Don’t bother going back to
Jindulla,” Alec said, now heartily
hospitable; “come and lunch at
our place.” But Stefanik gave
Alec a wry smile and shook his
head, even before he interpreted
to his ever-curious companion.
CHAPTER VI
1/ RAFTMANN could easily
-*-*■ have discussed the situation
arising from his interview with
Breyley in a quiet manner with
each of his family in turn.
But it was not in his nature to
miss such an opportunity for a
scene, particularly not to miss
the opportunity of openly brand-
ing Rhoda as an “unnatural
child” —the worst thing he could
think of, since according to his
school of thought it was natural
for a daughter to be loving,
obedient, industrious and unques-
tioning.
On the Sunday night he had
to contain his rage because other
visitors turned up as soon as
Breyley left. Breakfast-time on
Monday was not considered a
good time ; and lunch was taken
up with Alec’s sensational news
of the eight-thousand-pound
claim made against him.
But disturbing as this was,
Rhoda could not escape under
its cover ; rather the general feel-
ing was that the threat demanded
a closer family integration with
a united front to the world. Tea-
time, then, was a favorable
opportunity to have the debate,
because it could be protracted
indefinitely without wasting
working-hours.
“Sit down, Rhoda,” her father
said, because she was jumping
up at the slightest pretext, even
though everyone had finished
eating. “Sit down, Rhoda, while
I tell your mother and your
brother and sister what you are
going to do to them.”
He waited, seeming to be hold-
ing his breath against the awful
indictment boiling up within him,
while Rhoda hesitated with a
wilful and injured look, then slid
reluctantly into the seat beside
Viki, who patted her arm in a
purely formal gesture of
sympathy.
“She’s going to drag you,” said
Kraftmann in the voice he had
used to terrify them as children,
“through the law-courts. She’s
going to disgrace you in the
public eye.”
Rhoda gasped at the magni-
tude of the exaggeration, took a
quick glance at the others to see
if they had believed it, then began
to talk with great rapidity.
“I don’t want to do any such
thing. You know very well what
I want; only to let Gregory have
a look at our company books so
he can help us get more profits.
You shouldn’t have thrown him
out of your office; now he's
annoyed with you and he’ll be
hard on you.”
Then she recollected some-
thing and said ambiguously,
“And you’ve made him hard on
me, too.”
The mother was the first to
think of a reply, and charac-
teristically it was about the
purely feminine angle.
“If he’s hard on you now,
child, it might be a useful warn-
ing in time. You mark my
words; a man who is hard on a
woman before they’re even
engaged is sure to be cruel after
they’re married.”
Kraftmann gave a genuine,
almost equine, snort, through the
nostrils of his big curved nose.
“Never mind that womanish
nonsense. What I want to tell
you all is that she is trying to
sool an accountant on to us, to
dig up everything we’ve ever
done and parade it in front of
the world. Now, what are we
going to do about it? Breyley
says she has the legal right. I
say she has no moral right *0
treat her family like that. What
are we going to do to.stop her?”
{To be continued )
BEACH LAUGHTER
It was over, the moon lagging after
The sun, like a lazy lubra. The laughter
Of the tribe always gets up in the noonday
Above the tea-trees, the cicadas —the bay
With its several fishermen, and the
Tidy little heaps of eucharie-shells. We
Don’t wait. It’s pack-up at four-o’clock
Just when the wind is dying, the rock
Stops diving, and the light floats up,
As if the gold of sun were a heap
Just under the waves and lightened them.
And should we choose to stay and laugh the same
As the natives under the casuarina-trees, it
Would seem, our civilisation doesn’t matter a bit.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


MAKE SURE YOU VISIT
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB'S
UP-TO-DATE AND COMFORTABLE RACECOURSES
World Famous
RANDWICK
Three Miles from the heart of the City.
Next Meetings:
SPRING MEETING—2nd, 4th, 6th, 9th October
SATURDAY—27th November
AND
WARWICK FARM
Australia’s most modern and best-appointed Racecourse set
in delightful surroundings on the Hume Highway, near
Liverpool.
Next Meetings:
SATURDAY —13th November
SATURDAY —20th November
W. N. PARRY-OKEDEN, Secretary, A.J.C.
6 Bligh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Xu Divokce.
TO GEORGE ALBERT LOVE late of
INGLEBURN. —TAKE NOTICE that
NORMA JOAN LOVE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1221 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
14th day of December 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from HICKSON, LAKEMAN & HOL-
COMBE, Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokce.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD FISHER late of
Burrill Lakes New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BEULAH BETH FISHER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 708
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend this
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of De-
cember 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from J. MANN,
Solicitor, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND RONALD DOPPER late
of No. 13 Trafalgar Street Peakhurst
near Sydney New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE JESSIE DOPPER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2366
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 20th day of January 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ALLAN UTHER & CO.,
Solicitors, of 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS. Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN DIVORCE.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN ABEL ARTHUR. DAVIS Peti-
tioner and ADELINE AMY DAVIS Re-
spondent.—TO ADELINE AMY DAVIo
late of 42 Brae Street Inverell m the
State aforesaid Domestic Duties.—TAKE
NOTICE that ABEL ARTHUR DAVIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2409
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three CD
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th December 1904
and obtain a copy of the
charge from MESSRS. CAMPBELL A
MELVILLE, Solicitors, 46 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Everything is in good order at
Randwick for the A.J.C. spring
carnival, which opens on Satur-
day with the (£10,000) Derby,
the (£2000) Breeders’ Plate, and
the (£2000) George Main Stakes.
This year the main events will be
spread over the four days—a
good idea. On Six-hour Day
chief events will be the (£4000)
Epsom Handicap, the (£2000)
Gimcrack Stakes and the (£2000)
weight-for-age Colin Stephen
Stakes. - Highlight of the third
day (Wednesday) will be the
(£3000) Craven Plate and the
(£6000) Metropolitan will be the
big event of the final day, Satur-
day week.
• • • •
For the Derby, only three
horses appear to have a winning
chance —Telyar (same colors as
Prince Cortauld), Pride of
Egypt, and Prince Delville. De-
spite Pride of Egypt’s three wins
in a row (Hobartville Stakes,
Canterbury Guineas and Rosehill
Guineas) he is not favorite,
Telyar having that status; but,
strictly on form, Pride of Egypt
must be given a good chance. In
winning the Rosehill Guineas the
colt ran the mile and a quarter
in 2.1| —equal to the Australian
record. The general opinion
seems to be that the Derby mile
and a half will be too much for
Pride of Egypt, but he has stayed
in front in his latest races, and
there is reason to believe he will
be able to do the same on Satur-
day. Telyar has won three times
from last four starts, and is bred
to stay. Prince Delville has a
good breeding background, too,
and his recent form has been
good.
• • • •
Pride of Egypt is selected to
win the Derby from Telyar and
Prince Delville.
Prince Cortauld seems to hold
a mortgage on the Epsom Han-
dicap (Monday) judging by the
betting. If he wins, doubles’
bookies will have to do some
finessing to get out of Metrop.
liabilities ; but the bag-boys do
escape seemingly difficult situa-
tions, so any tears on their behalf
would be premature. Prince Cor-
tauld’s chief rivals are a bit
hard to pick, because some of
those nearest to him in final bet-
ting haven’t shown form sound
enough for them to be rated as
strong opposition. Connaught
was beaten at Rosehill by a non-
starter in the Epsom, Sunny
Hour; maybe the heavy going
didn’t suit Connaught (he’s won
to a mile and a quarter) but, even
so, it wasn’t a particularly bright
showing at this stage. Karendi,
as winner of a Doncaster Han-
dicap, has claims despite his 9.6,
but late form hasn’t been im-
pressive.
Selections for the Epsom:
Prince Cortauld to win from
Rapid River and Connaught.
Rapid River made a fine effort
when he finished second in the
Doomben Ten Thousand.
N. Sellwood should have no
complaints if his best mounts
win. They include Telyar
(Derby), Prince Cortauld
(Epsom), Gendarme (Metropoli-
tan), and Knave (Breeders’
Plate). Sellwood won the Derby
on Deep River in 1952, and on
Prince Morvi last year.
Knave, a well-developed and
sensible type of colt by Faux
Tirage (imp,), made a good im-
pression in winning his heats of
the barrier trials at Randwick
and Rosehill, and is fancied for
the Breeders’ Plate. He is related
to Murray Stream, Hall Mark,
Magnificent and Trivalve —all
good gallopers of yesterday.
Carries colors of his breeder,
Enzedder T. C. Lowry, and
trained by M. McCarten.
The barrier trials should have
given pointers to the prospects
of two-year-olds in both Breed-
ers’ Plate and Gimcrack Stakes.
Two-year-olds are fickle crea-
tures, of course, and times by
this year’s crop were remark-
ably even; and a colt which
didn’t start at the trials may be
capable of downing those that
did. But, with these reservations,
after watching the running at
both tracks. Knave, Aboukir,
Milanda, Sir Newton and King-
ston looked the best of the
Breeders’ Plate nominations.
Selections for Breeders’ Plate:
Knave, to win from Aboukir
and Milanda. Gimcrack Stakes:
Sendiri, to win from Pelota
and New Slipper. Other pros-
pects : Spacemaker, Ultrablue
and Valoncourt,
Some of the two-year-olds
weren’t allowed a free rein in
the trials; which was next door
to stupid. Hard-held ones won’t
get generous odds. Barrier posi-
tions are likely to influence bet-
ting. They do make some dif-
ference from the five furlongs.
Four-year-olds have the wood
on others in important spring
handicaps. Records support this
opinion, and it is understandable
Forty of that age-group have
won the A.J.C. Epsom, against
30 five-year-olds. Three-year-
olds have a lean record in the
mile, mainly because the best of
them contest the Derby. Aged
horses should be given a miss in
both Epsom and Metropolitan,
by the statistics. Only four aged
horses have landed the Epsom,
and seven the Metropolitan. In
the latter race 38 four-year-olds
have won, and so have 27 five-
year-olds, Six-year-olds have
won 14 Epsoms and 13 Metro-
politans. On the whole, then,
four-year-olds are safest. Prince
Cortauld, the favorite, is a four-
year-old ; so are Connaught and
Royal Stream.
• « • •
A spring double rarely
attempted; the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill (8y furlongs at w.-f.-a.)
and the A.J.C. Epsom Handicap.
One reason being that horses
entered for the Randwick mile,
competing at Rosehill the week
before, generally start in the
Theo Marks Quality Handicap.
Over the past 30 years two horses
won the Hill Stakes-Epsom
double. They were Chatham
“So I turned the other cheek. Dad—but he bashed
me again.”
(1933) and Shannon (1945). So
Prince Cortauld, winner of the
Hill Stakes last Saturday, has
something to live up to.
Chatham was one of the most
outstanding milers this country
has seen. He won the 1932
Epsom with 8.13, and won it
again the following year with
9.10. On each occasion he
started favorite, and in 1934,
with 10.9, went to the post equal
favorite with Australia Fair.
But on this occasion the weight
was too much and he missed a
place. Prince Cortauld’s 9.0 in
the Epsom shouldn’t stop him.
History of the mile shows that
several four-year-olds won in the
past 25 years with more than 9.0
—Achilles (9.2), Rimveil (9.2),
High Caste (9.5), Gold Rod (9.3)
and Nightmarch (9.4).
First two or three days of the
Randwick carnival will throw
additional light on prospects for
the Metropolitan, Ond* of the
features of the racing this Satur-
day will be the first appearance
in Sydney of New Zealand’s
champion. Gendarme, leader in
the betting on the Metrop.
Gendarme will compete in the
weight-for-age George Main
Stakes against a fairly weak
field. Half Past handed out a
real Metrop. trial at Rosehill
when he ran away with the
September Handicap, for which
he was backed from 4’s to 5 to 2.
He was capably handled by
stable apprentice F. Leman, but
carried 71b. less than his Metrop.
weight of 7.7. In the longer race
he will be ridden by Melbourne
jockey A. Burton. Half Past was
quickly elevated to equal second-
favorite with Master Proven.
If Gendarme doesn’t come up
to expectations at engagements
prior to the running of the A.J.C.
Metropolitan, then Randwick
trainer T. J, Smith will appear
to hold a strong grip on the
destination of the prizemoney.
He does so now, with the two
equal second-favorites, Half
Past and Master Proven, as well
as Sir Pilot (second to Prince
Cortauld at weight-for-age at
Rosehill). Sir Pilot was last to
the half-mile, then got going to
such purpose that he beat all
except the hot favorite. Sir Pilot
has no weight-for-age aspira-
tions, and in the circumstances
his performance was good from
a Metropolitan viewpoint. He
carried 9.1 last Saturday and
drops to 8.4 in the long handi-
cap ; in which Priory, by his third
to Half Past and Casa at Rose-
hill, also merits consideration.
He is a stayer, and had two
horses behind him six furlongs
from home in the September
Handicap. Last autumn Priory
ran third in the Sydney Cup, and
made a good show after enter-
ing the straight. The 13 furlongs
should suit him.
If Rising Fast wins the
V.R.C.’s £2OOO weight-for-age
Turnbull Stakes at Flemington
this Saturday he will be a
warmer favorite than at present
for the £lO,OOO Caulfield Cup
on Saturday, October 16. The
Turnbull Stakes is to be run over
the Cup distance, \\ mile. Other
Caulfield Cup horses are ex-
pected to figure in the line-up.
Interesting events on the Flem-
ington programme will include
the first two-year-old races of
the Melbourne season, the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes for
fillies and the same-titled event
for colts and geldings. Rising
Fast is a five-year-old gelding by
Alonzo (imp.) from Faster by
Mr. Standfast (imp.). He is
closely related to Silver Phan-
tom, holder of the record for the
Australian mile.
New Zealand-owned or -bred
horses keep bobbing up as win-
ners in Sydney and Melbourne.
Last Saturday’s list included
Surprise Ending in the Quality
Handicap, 10 furlongs, at
Moonee Valley. It was her first
start in Australia, but she was
well backed. Among the van-
quished—Wodalla, King Amana,
Sunish, Flash Fox and Most
Regal. Soon after the race the
mare was promoted to second
line of Caulfield Cup favoritism,
Rising Fast being on the first
line. She also firmed sharply for
the Melbourne Cup. She cost
owner-trainer J. F. Kerr a mere
llOgns. as a yearling and has
won upwards of £7OOO in stakes.
Surprise Ending is a four-year-
old mare by Revelation (imp.)
from Biddy Machree by Oration.
As she comes from the family
which produced Nightmarch,
Silver Ring and High Caste, her
admirers for the Cups have
something in their favor. Sur-
prise Ending has 8.5 in the Caul-
field Cup and one pound less
in the Melbourne Cup. Last
season in New Zealand she won
the St. Leger, If mile, and Auck-
land’s Great Northern Oaks.
Staying appears to be her long
suit. Crack New Zealand jockey
W. J. Broughton may ride her in
Melbourne engagements.
Wodalla finished second to
Surprise Ending at Moonee
Valley. Last year’s Melbourne
Cup winner may again figure
prominently in the big two mile
on November 2, in which he is
handicapped at 9st. Wodalla
won the Cup last year with 8.4.
Trainer Bob Sinclair expressed
the opinion that Wodalla is back
to best form and will test the
stayers.
♦ ♦ ♦
Footscray lost its first two
games this year, the first to the
eventual wooden-spooners, St.
Kilda ; then in the third round,
in a reversal of form, it mangled
South to the tune of 17.14-3.11.
Since then it’s been consistent,
and, getting in “the four” after
the fifth round, stayed there. On
Saturday, in perfect conditions,
before an unusually peaceful
crowd (82,697 —cynics might say
they were too closely packed to
fight) at M.C.G., ’Scray won the
1954 V.F.L. premiership from
Melbourne (15.12-7.9). A con-
vincing win. It was Footscray’s
first premiership.
• • •
As a game it was disappoint-
ing. Melbourne was never really
in the hunt. ’Scray raced away
to a quarter-time lead of 6.3-
1.4, and led by 23 points at half-
time. Young, fast and vigorous,
the Bulldogs won, or at worst
broke even, in every position on
the field. Their defence, based
on goalkeeper Henderson, was
excellent; Jack Collins kicked
seven goals; and “iron-man”
Charlie Sutton, who’s done a
great job as captain-coach, de-
serves all credit for his team’s
ultimate victory. Stocky Charlie
is a bit of a bulldog himself.
* * ♦
Samoan heavyweight Fossi
Schmidt (13.4) made short work
of Harold Davis (12.5) at
Leichhardt. Davis was a last-
minute substitute for A 1 McCoy,
who failed to pass the doctor,
and galleryites loudly voiced
their disapproval when the bald-
headed pugilist climbed through
the ropes. Before they had
fought a full minute, a left swing
dropped Davis for “nine.”
Another left made Davis recline
on the canvas for “eight” in
round two, and when yet another
left downstairs floored him again
in the third, referee Jack Burns
declared Schmidt the winner. In
a supporting 12-rounder Jimmy
Ripley (9.5), another Samoan,
drew with Alan Cartwright (9.9).
Ripley wasn’t as speedy as
Schmidt, but he displayed a great
variety of punches, and could do
well in future fights. Amateurs
replaced pros in the preliminaries
—nine three-rounders in the
N.S.W. amateur championships.
The lilywhites made up in
enthusiasm for what they lacked
in experience, and some of them
may seek fame and fortune in
the game later. So the annual
carnival of amateurs is always
worth watching.


CROUP
The Sign of Friendly, Efficient Service
throughout Australia
C
2
ROOTES
c
E
RV
S
E
G
0
P
U
R
k
HUMBER HILLMAN
SUNBEAM - TALBOT CARS
COMMER & KARRIER TRUCKS
4«d«p mvic«
SALES AND SERVICE
IN 132 COUNTRIES
You’ll find this yellow and blue sign displayed by Rootes Group distributors
and dealers throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Wherever it is
you’ll find efficient service backed by the resources of Australia s Friendliest
Factory—the big plant of Rootes (Australia) Limited at Fishermen’s Bend,
Victoria.
You’ll find genuine factory-made parts and factory-trained service specialists always ready to
help you, and keen to maintain the spirit of courtesy and friendliness which is traditional in the
Rootes organisation. If you own a Rootes Group product, get your service where you see this
sign. You’ll find it pays.
tBSbH
S S 3
as*
'\
ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
|,| j ife ra & /:■ *5 ... ' \ ?&4 s: X^M|
FISHERMEN’S BEND, PORT MELBOURNE


What About Senator
McCarthy's Methods?
“I approve of Senator McCarthy’s
objectives, but I strongly disapprove
of his methods, which are similar to
those of the Communists.” This
type of statement is now being used
to help smear American anti-Com-
munlst leader. Senator J. McCarthy.
But those in doubt about McCarthy’s
methods should read the currept
issue of the League of Rights’
monthly INTELLIGENCE SURVEY,
which contains actual extracts from
the official records of Senator Mc-
Carthy’s interrogation of a typical
witness strongly suspected of being
a Communist. A comparison is made
between McCarthy’s methods and
those used by the Communists
during the examination of American
prisoners of war in Korea.
THE. INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also provides other factual reports
and comment essential for all
Christian patriots.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY. 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free. Order from—
The Victorian League of Rights
(Non-party, non-sectarian)
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPEAN UNITY
As “New - York Times”
remarked editorially at the time,
“the cause of Western defence
and European unification suf-
fered a staggering blow when a
leaderless, hamstrung and con-
fused French National Assembly
in effect rejected the European
Defence Community treaty and
thereby killed, at least for the
present, the most promising
Western enterprise of the post-
war era.”
And if the arguments for and
against it were confused enough
before E.D.C. was killed, it
would appear from the following
typical overseas press comment
that a similar amount of argu-
ment for and against will precede
any substitute for the original
plan:
* * •
“New York Times”: “This
development marks the greatest
post-war triumph for Soviet
policy, which made the destruc-
tion of the European Defence
Community one of its main
objectives in order to wean
Germany from the West and
open the road to a further Com-
munist advance in Europe. There
is no doubt that it could have, in
Secretary Dulles’s words, the
most ‘serious consequences.’
“It is _a particularly heavy
blow to Chancellor Adenauer
and his policy of German
integration with the West. Unless
quickly softened, it could pre-
cipitate in Germany a feeling of
rejection and frustration leading
to a resurgence of German
nationalism and increased
pressure for a new ‘Rapallo’
approach to Soviet Russia that
would make a democratic unifica-
tion of Europe impossible.”
The same: “Before France’s
allies engage in new negotiations
it might be advisable for them
to examine whether the present
Government is able to keep new
French commitments any better
than the old. The defeat of the
Defence Community project was
primarily a triumph of the
unholy alliance between
Moscow’s fifth - column in
France, commanding nearly
100 Communist votes in the
Assembly, and the Gaullists, who
still dream of France as the
‘grande nation.’ ”
The same : “One possible solu-
tion [would be] the holding of
new elections for a new and
more workable National
Assembly, for which cries are
heard within the Assembly itself.
The fact is that the French nation
was consulted on the issue at
hand, and that the defeat was
engineered by Paris politicians
who turned the clock back to
produce a result which, in the
words of the Paris ‘Figaro,’ must
make France herself fear the
tomorrow and feel ashamed
today. Nobody can foretell
what the results of a new election
would be, but it seems certain
that both the Communists and
the Gaullists would return with
reduced numbers and that clearer
judgments would prevail.
“Barring this, there would
seem to be only two other possi-
bilities. One is a European
Defence Community without
France, although the European
partners in it are themselves
reluctant to isolate France. The
other is an alliance between the
United States, Britain and
Germany which would link
Germany to Nato as the Balkan
alliance links Yugoslavia to it.
It is up to France to say whether
such harsher solutions shall
prevail.”
♦ ♦ ♦
London “News Chronicle”:
“History may find it possible to
forgive the French Assembly for
its long hesitations over the
European Defence Community.
It will be hard to forgive the way
that E.D.C. was killed. The
great design which was to mark
the reconciliation of France and
Germany and to provide a frame-
work for the future of Europe
was cast aside by a procedural
manoeuvre. It was denied
adequate discussion. It was
even denied the dignity of an
honest and courageous No.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “There
has been a tendency to play
down a disastrous event and to
say; ‘Oh, well —that’s finished.
Let’s think of something else.'
This would be grand if we had
time on our hands. But it is
eight years since Churchill said:
The time may be short,’ How
much shorter is it now? It was
hoped, then, that the Western
world, former friends and
enemies alike, would gradually
get together and form the habit
of co-operation in face of a
growing threat to them all. That
hope has been murdered by
France. The framework of a
security system has been
shattered. All Europe is to be
infected by the disunity which is
the curse of France.”
The same: “The final kick
was given by M. Herriot. This
man of 82 has been out of office
so long that he misjudges the
temper of the times. He emerged
as the embodiment of ancient
fears and hatreds. ‘Britain,’ he
says, ‘should engage herself by
the side of France in this matter
to resist with equal responsibility
all German threats.’
“That is exactly what Britain
did in 1939. But by 1940 she
found herself bearing a some-
what disproportionate share of
the responsibility. Nevertheless,
we are still engaged by five
separate military guarantees,
apart from our presence in
Europe, to fight with France
again. Is that not enough?”
The same : “What now? The
alternatives are to keep Germany
unarmed, which we cannot do,
and to rely mainly on France,
which we will not do. Another
is to replace E.D.C. by some
looser organisation. The third
and most likely course is to bring
Germany within the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation,
which means a full and equal
partnership with all the other
members. If France dislikes this
as much as we do she has only
herself to blame.”
• r -J- *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“The urgent task is to resolve
the dilemma which E.D.C.’s
failure has created. West
Germany must still become
sovereign; sovereignty implies
the right to arm, and the defence
of Europe demands German
troops. Yet France is certain to
want safeguards against a revived
German military power.
“How these conflicting condi-
tions are to be met, in the absence
of E.D.C., is the immediate ques-
tion before the West. Given
time, it would surely be possible
to return to the basic principles
of E.D.C. and evolve a treaty
which would satisfy moderate
opinion in both France and
Germany. Unhappily, time is
running out. German nationalism
is feeding on French
nationalism; old controversies
between the two countries may
be embittered and divisions
accentuated.
“Some kind of European solu-
tion is the only sound answer.
E.D.C. offered such a solution,
and a substitute must be found
quickly, or nations whose
survival depends on unity will
drift apart.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald'”: “The
keystone of Western security
London “Daily Express”
“LITTLE MAN, WHAT NOW ?”
must be working agreement be-
tween the two neighbors, France
and Germany. Unless the
ancient quarrel between them
can be finally buried, nothing
will come right. Those who feel
tempted to say we can go ahead
and organise Europe without
waiting for France are wrong.
So are those who imagine that
Western Germany can be kept in
permanent subjugation while
Eastern Germany is armed.”
V * s»
London “Spectator”: “Some
of the most profoundly con-
vinced advocates of E.D.C. were
Germans. They positively did
not want, and do not want, a
national German army. Their
anxiety to avoid it, and to have
instead an integrated European
force in which the German units
could be thoroughly merged, was
made all the keener by a sense
that the tide of history was set
in the direction of a new national
German force. The opinion that
that tide cannot be turned has
be’en frequently expressed in this
journal. It is less freely acknow-
ledged in Western Germany.
There is an almost desperate urge
there to escape from it. For
militarism in Germany has
repeatedly turned to a form of
national insanity, and there can
be few worse fears than the fear
of going mad.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “E.D.C.
has failed, and it will have to
be replaced by something which,
if it works, will l?y this very
fact be better than this brilliant
failure. The outlines of the new
system are by now fairly clear.
It will have to allow some
measure of military strength to
Western Germany, and these new
forces will have to be bound
within some form of Western
alliance. The resulting commit-
ments will presumably be looser
than those which the E.D.C. pro-
vided ; and this fact should give
Britain a chance to play the part
which was judged inappropriate
for her within the E.D.C V For
all practical purposes of defence
Britain is today part of the Con-
tinent. Her contribution to Nato
admits as much. There can be
no withdrawing from this
position.”
The same: “It is clear that
Western Germany will have to be
given sovereignty with little
delay. There may exist no logical
proof for this. But logic is not
everything, and the effort to keep
so strong and highly developed
a country under tutelage would
set up most dangerous tensions.
To safeguard against a future
Bismarck would be to foster a
new Hitler. On this point agree-
ment exists among Western
statesmen, and their number
certainly includes M. Mend&s-
France. But though sovereignty
will have to be granted, and
some sort of remilitarisation will
sooner or later follow, it is by
no means certain that Western
Germany will be particularly
resentful at the disappearance of
the E.D.C. The Opposition never
cared for the idea.”
* * ♦
“Manchester Guardian” : “The
sacrifice [of national sovereignty]
was one of the major obstacles to
E.D.C. and one of the main
reasons why decisions on the
European Political Community
were so frequently deferred.
What of the other obstacles?
The greatest, of course, has been
France’s fear of German
domination and German arms.
“In a larger union, with the
British and Scandinavians also
taking part, the fear of German
domination would disappear.
The French (other than the
Gaullists) have, indeed, made it
fairly clear a number of times
that Britain’s absence was one of
their greatest regrets about
E.D.C.
“The fear of German arms is
not so readily to be assuaged.
But there is a reasonable chance
that the French would consent
to arming Western Germany,
within Nato, if they were simul-
taneously offered a closer poli-
tical and economic union with
Britain and their other European
partners. That at least would be
better than merely asking the
French, now that they have
rejected E.D.C., to accept the
Germans in Nato without any
additional security,”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The problem which E.D.C. was
designed to meet has hot died
with it. Reduced to its simplest
form it is: How to secure a
German contribution to Western
defence without running the risk
of a rebirth of uncontrolled
German militarism? There must
be such a system of Western
defence as to ensure that, how-
ever large the German contribu-
tion, the remainder of her Euro-
pean allies can always outnumber
and outshoot her. This can be
brought about only if Britain is
prepared to enter into the Euro-
pean army on equal terms with
France. Only in that way could
the balance in what must be a
rather uneasy partnership be
maintained. The Anglo-French
alliance is the surest bond in
Europe today. Britain alone can
take the initiative and give the
lead which Europe is waiting
for. It requires courage and
vision, and the man who has
those qualities is Sir Winston
Churchill. He has now a great
chance of crowning his career
with a stroke of policy which
could guarantee peace in
Europe.”
* * ♦
London “Daily Express”:
“Foolish newspapers are urging
Britain to ‘give a lead’ to Europe
now that the French have killed
E.D.C. It is bad advice. Let
the people reject it. And let the
Government turn a deaf ear to
it.
“For what does it mean, iri
practice? That Britain is being
invited to separate herself from
the United States, to say nothing
of her own Dominions.
“For Britain to labor in peace-
time to fortify positions in
Western Europe would be a
policy impossible to justify. It
would mean that Britain, in order
to prepare herself for a world
war which might never come, was
ensuring that she would be drawn
into any war affecting Europe.
That would be an intolerable
situation.
“It is true that the French
decision on E.D.C. has produced
many difficult problems. But
these problems are not addressed
to Britain alone. They are the
concern, first of the European
peoples themselves, then of the
United States and Britain, acting
in consultation with the Com-
monwealth.”
* ♦ *
London “Economist” : “The
[British] Government might well
ask its advisers to set out pre-
cisely the military arguments for
and against British participation,
in something tighter than Nato
but looser than E.D.C. It could
seek from members of the Com-
monwealth definite answers to
specific questions about their
views on such a project. If the
military and Commonwealth
verdicts were favorable to a
revision of British policy, then
the way would be clear to
demand a final decision from
France in favor of complete
German independence and
equality within a more closely
organised Atlantic group. If the
verdicts were unfavorable, then
it would be better to join the
Americans in a thorough re-
appraisal of the means by which
Western Europe is to be
defended.”
The same : “Here is a task for
Sir Winston Churchill far more
urgent and exacting than his
long-cherished project of a
tete-a-tete with Mr. Malenkov.
Indeed, the chance —it is a
remote chance —of getting the
Russians to make concessions in
Germany depends on the
Western Powers showing the
utmost determination to organise
a safe and stable balance ol
power in central Europe.
“It would be wise to assume
that the United States has gone


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5j ins. x 3i ins.,
6S x 3fi and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [{j;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304.308 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Small is big
0
BELtS
Scotch % v
100% SCOTCH WHISK'»
distilled and bunded
'.IN SCOTLAND
O| STILLERSn«™SCO j
,TLAN p
£ecial Mil
sometimes!
A paradox? Perhaps! But there
are times when a tape-measure
is not the truest judge of stature.
Take Scotch Whiskies for
example. Bell’* is one of the oldest
of the independent firms of Scotch
Whisky distillers—they have been
making whisky since 1825.
Their output is by no means the
biggest but the whisky they make
is ‘big’ in the best sense. Yes,
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky is a
really-and-truly ‘big’ whisky.
A big-hearted drink. Well and
wisely matured. Beautifully
blended. Carrying in the heart of
it the heart of the Highlands.
Those who take whisky seriously,
take Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
c£Lt.
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1525
to the limit in military commit-
ments, political pledges and
economic aid. If it does not see
the British, French and
Germans also going to the limit,
it will be fully entitled to make
the agonising reappraisal of
which Mr. Dulles once spoke.
The way would then be clear
for Mr. Molotov to extend
gradually over central Europe
the sword-stick umbrella that he
unfurled after the Berlin confer-
ence. If the Atlantic organisa-
tion called Nato is torn apart by
France, there is the Soviet-
European Treaty Organisation
called Seto waiting to take its
place. The Russians would then
have solved the problem of
peaceful co-existence in Europe
to their entire satisfaction,”
Resurgent Japan?
Some of the problems of an
overcrowded Japan were men-
tioned here last week. In the
following comment, R. Denton
Williams, a regional officer of
the United Nations Association,
replies to the “assumption,” in
London “Spectator,” “that there
is no danger of a great upsurge
of militarism in Japan”;
“When recruitment was closed
for the new National Safety
Corps in 1953, it was disclosed
in the ‘Nippon Times’ that 8000
men were required that year, but
that 56,994 had applied.
“The Japanese Liberal party
are envisaging that their forces
after five years will be 190,000
army men, an air force of 40,000
men with 1000 aircraft
(American Lockheed jet aircraft
built under licence), a naval
force of 45,000 men and 15,000
tons.
“The Japanese Federation of
Employers’ Associations is
advised by the former profes-
sional military men and, nowa-
days, many of the former army
and navy officers, the pride of
imperial Japan, are looked upon
as heroes, when a few years ago
they were war criminals. This
organisation has announced that
at present a military force of
300,000 men, 290,000 tons of
naval craft, and about 4000 air-
craft would be reasonable, having
regard to the economic capacity
of Japan. This organisation
primarily represents the 10 great
Japanese family businesses
(Mitsui, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo,
etc.) who monopolise 80 per
cent, of all Japanese manufacture
and trade.
“At the same time, the
economic difficulties of Japan
are growing. There are now
87,000,000 people in these
islands, where 15 years ago
there were about 70,000,000.
They no longer have control of
Manchuria, Korea, Formosa or
North China ; nor have they even
reasonable trading connections
with these natural areas from
which they could draw raw
materials and to which they
could send manufactured goods.
Unemployment is increasing,
the present rice crop is 2,000,000
tons short, and, finally, there is a
growing and vigorous Com-
munist party.
“Will the 10 great families,
supported by their advisers, the
old generals (who in 1945 were
told by Tokyo officials that peace
was only a temporary state
brought about by circumstances)
—will these people tighten the
reins of their control, looking to
military solutions to their
problems, as they did in the
1930’5?
“The democratisation of
Japan during eight years of
occupation has suffered a psycho-
logical setback through the
complete change of principle
involved in the rearming of
Japan, when their post-war con-
stitution explicitly renounced
wars and armed forces. Now,
too, the Japanese Government
is trying to centralise the police
force once more —does anyone
remember the Kempetai?
“Finally, in this land, which
alone of the countries of the
world has shown itself to be
indefensible in an atomic age,
they are now to build a cyclotron,
which will possibly enable them
to produce an atomic bomb in
the next five years.
“Where Western politicians
are taking special care to rearm
Germans only under an Interna-
tional General Staff, in the case
of Japan the revival of the Jap-
anese General Staff is part and
parcel of the plan.
“Is this wise?
“Or should we not preferably
be concentrating on helping
Japan to obtain its share of raw'
materials and markets and thus
develop peacefully.”
Indonesia
Indonesia was one of the
countries which refused to come
in on any South-East Treaty
Organisation to meet Communist
expansion in the area. Its politics
are tangled and its financial
situation weak and getting
weaker. The Communists, with
30 votes in the Indonesian Parlia-
ment, could bring down the Gov-
ernment if they wished, but they
prefer to use their strength to
blackmail it into carrying out
policies favorable to Communist
aims.
In fact, comments London
“Economist,” “Indonesia is much
more likely to dance to the Com-
munist tune than either India or
Burma. Djakarta is a centre of
political intrigue, in which per-
sonal ambition and Communist
tactics might at .any time combine
to produce a dangerous explosion.
The only solidly optimistic fact
that can be weighed against the
reality of this peril is that almost
no one who knows the Indo-
nesians seriously expects the
worst to happen. Although
under considerable Communist
influence, their country is at
present likely to jog along for
some time without going Com-
munist.
“One of the tragedies of the
new Indonesia is its inefficiency.
Fortunately for the people who
form the backbone of the
country, the peasants, nothing
could apparently matter less.
Their islands are rich and their
basic human needs are small.
And in terms of modern Asian
politics it is everything to be free.
There has indeed been a great
feeling of exhilaration since the
winning of independence four
years ago. But, having advanced
on to the world stage in their
own right, the Indonesians cannot
avoid its common problems.
One of these is how they are to
pay their way with a rising
standard of living. Another is
how to do so without resorting
to the totalitarian methods
inherent in Communism.
“It is easy for anyone who
knew the prosperity and order of
the Netherlands East Indies in
the old days before the war to
decry the mess of the present
day. But the current phase is
London “Daily Mirror”
“IF ONLY WE COULD MAKE SURE THAT THERE
IS A NEXT GENERATION."
an essential part of the process
of transformation from colonial
status to successful independence.
Already a good deal has been
learnt and it must be hoped that
Indonesia will be granted the
time and ability to complete the
change, without falling prey to a
political philosophy that would,
in the end, be a burden to the
country and a menace to its
neighbors.
“For the British, the most
immediate practical result of all
this is to threaten the gradual
elimination of some £l5O million-
worth of commercial investment.
British and other foreign firms
are being confronted with
immense and, it would appear,
increasing difficulties. Every
kind of obstruction is put in their
way in respect of remittances
abroad, entry permits for their
own nationals, the employment
of labor, the use of housing, the
employment of Indonesians on
their staffs, taxation, security,
long-term planning and, not
least, form-filling; the returns
from one firm are recently
reputed to have had to be dis-
patched in five wooden packing-
cases.
“For the West as a whole a
country as strategically placed as
Indonesia is bound to be
important. Although it has lately
dropped out of the headlines, it
remains to haunt the planners in
the shadows. At least an element
of luck looks like being needed
if it is not in time to forge some
kind of new link with the Com-
munist empire.”
Various Voices
Walter P. Reuther {president
of the Congress of Industrial
Organisations): “We live in a
period of twilight. We have
neither war nor peace in the
world; we [America] have
neither prosperity nor depression
at home. Neither war nor peace,
neither depression nor prosperity,
are inevitable. We need to act
in the knowledge that we can
drift to war and depression, buf
to win the peace and to build
permanent prosperity we must
work, plan and build together.”
Lord Beveridge: “Ninety-eight
per cent, of the ordinary people
of the world want two things:
First, peace, but second, and
almost as much, the right to their
own way of life.”
Jack Tanner (president of the
T.U.C.): “While we may believe
that all men are brethren, we
strongly object to any big brother
trying to push us around.”
Dr. Gar butt, Archbishop of
York: “Fatalism is a deadly
disease which if yielded to will
destroy both society and
individuals. It will result in
despairing apathy and a flabby
resignation which has nothing
heroic about it.”
U.S. Senator Ferguson : “Why
should not we [America] furnish
the aviators and the scientists
and the machinists? I believe the
time has come when the other
countries in the mutual security
compact must realise that,
although America has more men
under arms than they have, yet
America’s real place is in science
and industry.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“We [Germany] reject in any
circumstances any attempt to
offer us rearmament under un-
worthy conditions —that is, a
German army in some kind of
tutelage. I am concerned to
make this clear once and for
all. Then there is nothing
for it but a German national
army side by side with a French
national army and other Euro-
pean national armies. It cannot
be said with enough emphasis:
the alternative to E.D.C. is a
German national army.”
U.S. Under-Secretary of State
Bedell Smith: “It is essential to
remedy situations that lead to
widespread wretchedness, but it
is not enough for a country
simply to be anti-Communist. A
country exposed to Communist
pressure must not only have a
strong and healthy society, but
must also have the means to
defend itself from attack.”
Admiral Jerauld Wright
{Supreme Allied Commander of
Nato’s Atlantic forces): “Soviet
naval strength today and what
they plan for the future is a clear
indication that they are making
a bold challenge to the tradi-
tional superiority of Western
nations for the control of the
seas.”
Joseph W. Martin, Jr. {chair-
man of the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives): “How many people
know that the Communists have
never won a single free election
in any land at any time? That
where their popularity has been
put to test they have always been
in the minority? How many
people know that, in the last free
elections before the Communists
took over one Government after
another in Europe, they never
polled more than 31 per cent, of
the vote in any country?”
Henry Cabot Lodge, U.S.
delegate to United Nations: “It
will be a bitter day for humanity
when the United Nations be-
comes a mere sordid cockpit of
power politics in which the
criminal and the law-abiding are
scrambled up indiscriminately.
Destroy the moral sanction of
the United Nations and you have
killed one of man’s noblest
aspirations.”
General Mark Clark: “I
know that while bullets may kill
Communists, they alone won’t
kill Communism. This is a
malignancy that grows on misery
and dissatisfaction —two enemies
we must fight and defeat.”


AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
TRACTOR VALUE!
More Farm-Right
Features than
any other tractor
Latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines with choice of kerosene or
diesel power ... 6-speed transmission
. . . “touch-control” hydraulics . . .
3-point linkage ... range of “Crown”
and matched implements and equip-
ment . . . and many more advances
in working versatility and economy.
Feature by feature, your Fordson
Dealer will show you why Ffcrdson
Major is easily Australia’s greatest
tractor value.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
In Fordson Majors keen price
all these “extras” are
STANDARD EQUIPMENT
Power take-off • 2-Speed Belt Pulley
• 12 Volt Starting Equipment
• Electric Lights • Adjustable Track Front Axle
• Independent Turning Brakes
• Fully Adjustable Drawbar • Tachometer
• “Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor
• Radiator Shutters and protective chaff screen
• Large weatherproof toolbox
KEROSENE MODEL DIESEL MODEL
with pneumatic tyres with pneumatic tyres
£918 £1077
Optional equipment—Hydraulic
lift and 3-point linkage only D
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
ds
ggEacagfßKM
ca^VsacMa.
FM4O-44A
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 62 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Man, Sydney, single, middle-age,
requires position, educated S.G.S.,
good health; at present public-service
clerk; pre-war was indentor raw-
materials.—s9o2.
To buy copy of The Billy Book by
David Low.—5903.
Information Sought
(7) Why is cement mortar prefer-
able to lime mortar for bricking-in a
copper ? (2) Will it stand heat nearly
as well?
(1) Greater strength is attained
with cement than with lime. (2) It
will stand heat if properly prepared
and cured. A mix of one part of
cement to three parts of sand, with
the smallest quantity of water that
will enable sand and cement to be
packed together, is ideal. If this
mortar is rammed into place and kept
damp for several days, then allowed
to dry out thoroughly before heat is
applied, no trouble should be experi-
enced in keeping the copper Sin
position.
* * * *
Recipe for an aquarium cement
that does not set rock-hard ?
It may be composed of }lb. whiting,
ilb. plaster of Paris, i-lb, litharge,
ilb. fine sand and loz. of resin,
worked to the consistency of ordin-
ary putty with varnish gold size
or boiled oil. Or take equal parts by
weight of litharge and zinc white,
with or without the addition of a little
whiting.
* * * *
CO In what parts of the world is
red snow to be found ? (2) What
causes it? (5) Name of any scientist
who has recorded seeing red snow ?
(1) Many, among them the For-
bidden Plateau, on Vancouver Island,
British Columbia. (2) Color is due
to the presence of innumerable
microscopic plants. (3) W. S. Bruce
tells of seeing “acres of red snow and
ice” on Spitsbergen and Nova Zembla,
as well as on the South Orkneys in
the Antarctic. Charles Darwin saw
red snow in the Andes.
* * * *
While reading Fielding’s “Joseph
Andrews” I became very interested in
Parson Adams. ( 1) Give a brief out-
line of 18th-century religion in Eng-
land. (2) Character of the average
18th-century Anglican parson? (3)
Were Cambridge and Oxford still the
“ nurseries” of the church ? ( 4 ) What
English novels, etc., from or of the
18th-century portray a clergyman ?
(5) Some historical works to consult
on the church of that period ?
(1) The 18th century, from a
religious point of view, is “a period
of rather cold and prosaic common-
sense, followed by an emotional
reaction under Wesley and the Evan-
gelicals” (Dean Inge, The Church in
the World). The first half of the
18th century saw the growth of
Deism and a prolonged Deistic con-
troversy (the “cold and prosaic
commonsense”). The revival of
English religion came in the Evangeli-
cal movement, both within the Estab-
lished Church and in the active
preaching of Wesley and Whitefield.
This “awakening of faith” also pro-
duced a definite system of theological
opinions (Evangelical), and with it a
new zeal for the redress of social in-
justices, such as the slave-trade. (2)
Undoubtedly they were, as in ail other
times, men of the highest character,
sincere, benevolent; guides, counsel-
lors and friends. (3) Yes. (4) In
Goldsmith’s novel The Vicar of
Wakefield, the vicar is kindly, charit-
able, devoid of worldly wisdom and
not without some literary vanity. In
contrast there is the time-serving
parson of the 18th-century song “The
Vicar of Bray,” the vicar who, what-
soever king of whatsoever faith may
reign, will remain Vicar of Bray. Two
others in contrast are the pompous,
silly, self-satisfied young clergyman
William Collins in Jane Austen’s
“Pride and Prejudice” and the
strong-willed Rev. St. John Rivers in
Charlotte Bronte’s Jane Eyre. Mar-
jorie Bowen’s historical novel Wrest-
ling Jacob is a biography of John
and Charles Wesley, and gives a
picture of life at their father’s rectory.
And there is, of course, Wesley’s own
Journal. (5) A History of the English
Church (vol.vu, 1714-1800), by Over-
ton and Relton; Dictionary of English
Church History, by Ollard, Crosse
and Bond; The Early Evangelists, by
L. E. EUiott-Binns; A Short History
of the Church of England, by A.
Jessopp; The Church of England, by
H. Henson, etc.
* * ♦ *
CO Do Chinese golden pheasants
breed in captivity? (2) How many
eggs do they lay ? (5) Does the cock
bird sit in turn with the hen ? ( 4 ) How
long do the eggs take to hatch? (5)
Any special treatment required in
rearing the young?
(1) Yes. (2) Seven. (3) Generally
the hen only sits. (4) Four weeks.
(5) Treat as young turkeys—plenty of
green food, boiled and chopped up
liver, dry toast crusts and crushed-up
wheat and maize. Pass all this through
a mincing machine. The liver should
be apportioned—one of liver to ten
parts of other food.
Brief Answers
A.M.: The landlord may issue
a notice to quit to the noisy
tenants, on the ground that they have
been guilty of nuisance and annoy-
ance to yourself as an adjoining
occupier. There is no need at all for
him to wait until the police have
been called. But you would need to
be able to give to a court exact details
of hours and dates of noises, etc. In
some circumstances it is possible to
obtain an injunction to restrain the
making of noises. In the circum-
stances of your case, however, it is
doubtful whether such an injunction
could be obtained The
following rates are those as at June
30, 1951—director-general of Posts
and Telegraphs, £4000; deputy
director-general £3006-£3306; assistant
director-general (planning and organi-
sation), £2358-£2544; assistant direc-
tor-general (personnel), £1862-£2048;
assistant director-general (financial),
£1986-£2172; assistant director-general
(engineering service—engineer-in-
chief), £3006-£3306. The following rates
relate to the N.S.W. branch—director
of Posts and Telegraphs, £2358-£2544;
superintendent (postal-services
branch), £1738-£1924; assistant super-
intendent, £1274-£1428; administrative
superintendent, £1490-£1676; assistant
superintendent (staff and industrial),
£1214-£1304; assistant superintendent
(education and welfare), £1214-£1304.
W.S.: The calculation was made by
triangulating from two base lines set
out on the Sydney side. The base
lines were measured with an invar
tape and the triangulation was per-
formed with an eight-inch theodolite.
... .R.W.W.: The Australasian Turf
and Stallion Register (£5 55.), obtain-
able from Argus and Australasian
Ltd., 365 Elizabeth-street, Mebourne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.L.: Strange how those lonely
houses always contain a madman or
tw0....M.J.: You have a copious
supply of words, but very few ideas.
S.P.: Keep your hero on land
until you learn something about life
at sea.... C.K.S.: Obviously you have
never gone prospecting in Central
Australia G.W.8.: Try to re-
member that the characters and their
actions matter more than the scenery,
and you’ll do better F.T.F.:
Words, words, words, and more
words... .D.P.M.: Such hypnotists
are not taken seriously at 252 George-
street M.M.: You might win her
with chocolates, but you’ll never do
it with verse... .A. 8.: Take our tip
and forswear both the ginger-haired
barmaid and the Muse F.C. :Read
and re-read and it’s still a mystery—
W.H.D.: If you’ll take our advice
you won’t worry about it any more.
E.N.: Rather pointless; and one
must go through too many pages to
discover it... .D.M.N.: One verse
then;
At home I have left my gingham.
And I with a cold in my head!
Ah, funeral hymns they will sing ’em
When pneumonia has left me dead.
. ...C.W*: You say you are 16, yet
you write “My happy days are over,
and my sun is sinking low.” What’s
gone wrong?... .J.W.: Grave or
gay, you lack the touch that carries
the writer into print F.R.: It
creaks and lurches along like an
overloaded lorry on a rutted road
M.J.C.: Illiterate deadbeats don’t
bluff captains of industry as easy as
all that V.W.: Racecourse yarn
reads like a treatise on the higher
mathematics R.L.K.: One verse
to prove that the race of horse-poets
hasn’t entirely perished:
With a last look at the wattle,
1 jumped on old Blue-bottle,
And settled down to ride
Thirty miles before noon-tide.
HJ.: Threat to send us a “Pat
and Mick” story every week fills us
with terror... .A.L.: You say things
twice over that aren’t worth saying
once J.A.S.: Cut off the frills and
get it into 2000 or so words
P.G.: The tragedy of “batching” has
been often poured into our ears—
C.J.L.: The verse doesn’t live up to
the copperplate script M.D.:
Lady who took to opium-smoking
thrilled us n0t.... J.K.S.: -Faint
shadow of an idea J.V.: You urge -
a goatcait over tracks where golden
chariots have driven R.N.M.:
Story of old China no good to young
Australia T.H.: Dug a hole for
“The Clutching Corpse” H.L.S.:
Don’t quite know what it’s all about,
but, anyway, we’re glad that “where
rest and peace doth reign” your “soul
hath found repose” 8.W.: You’re
not a very musical moralist, but your
query as to what the pioneers did
when up against it may awaken an
echo somewhere:
Did they loaf and curse creation?
Did they rant and rave and roar?
No, they grabbed the spade and mattock
And bullocked harder than before.
J.F.B.H.: “Still riseth the sun in
the east.” And still sinketh another
poem in the basket.... C.G.F.:
Cowards who miraculously find their
courage before the end of the story
are offered to us at the rate of about
a dozen a week... Your
Muse is a bit heavy on her feet....
P.H.: Just the old nebulosities that
rhymesters seem to think they must
get into verse, though they’ve been put
there ten thousand times already....
F T ; Only a miracle would carry
“The Miracle” into print... .W.RT.:
One of those twilight pastels for pale
people. Try dipping your pen m
blood for a change... .N.L.C.. J>aa
story of “a young and innocent w le,
the slave of a cruel husband, reluct-
antly rejected... .E.H.A.: A t ,
sweet note on an old theme.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Too Many Holidays?
The N. S. Wales Government has
granted two extra days’ holiday at Christ-
mas. This year Christmas Day falls on a
Saturday, so, with Monday and Tuesday
granted as the extra diays-olf, there’ll be a
four-days break. This is to be followed
by a three-day break at the New Year.
Doubtless other State Governments will
grant the same holidays.
All very nice and acceptable, I sup-
pose. Still, one can’t help wondering.
Apart altogether from the inconvenience
that’s going to confront the housewife
with such long shopless intervals, there’s
the all-important question, Can we afford
it?
Australia is surely reaching the stage of
having too many holidays. Their cost to
the economy is considerable. R. F.
Sanderson, a leading Australian business-
man, has estimated that public holidays
now cost Australia £75 million a year!
Holidays, he said, added more to Aus-
tralia’s production-costs than to the costs
of any other country, thus helping no
end to price Australia out of overseas
markets.
National and sacred holidays are good
and desirable (even though the “sacred”
part usually tends to be overshadowed by
the material; sporting fixtures and the
like), but each year there seem to be
too many other holidays thrown-in, often
from the flimsiest of excuses.
And the union picnic-holiday should
certainly be wiped-out. There’s a stag-
gering list of them, in the main good
excuses for idling; all of them are held
mid-week, of course. These picnic-
holidays upset and disrupt business and
industry, besides adding considerably to
costs-of-production.
This frequency of holidays is doubtless
bound-up with the Australian’s preference
for “fun and games.” It has been truly
said that leisure in Australia isn’t used
well. By having more and more holi-
days we aren’t learning how to use it;
maybe with fewer we would use it more
wisely.— Kaymara (N.S.W.).
Kimberley Paintings
There are various theories for the
origin of the aboriginal paintings in the
Kimberley caves, which “Dustman” (B.
15/9/’54) suggests “represent the sky-god
Wondjina.” A book published in Paris
in 1663 would suggest that a French
voyager, the Sieur de Gonneville, in 1503,
discovered Australia and tried to Chris-
tianise the aborigines in that portion of
north-west Australia by colored represen-
tations of the Saviour.
If that theory is too fantastic for
“Dustman” he can take his choice of two
others. William Moore, in The Story of
Australian Art, published in 1934, recalls
that in an article on rock-paintings of
north-west Australia in “Oceania” (Octo-
ber, 1920), Professor A. P. Elkin con-
cluded that, while the paintings probably
did not originate with the aborigines,
there was definite evidence that they
were connected with the organisation and
beliefs of the tribes.
The Reverend John Campbell, LL.D.,
Professor of Church History, Montreal,
interpreted the signs above the face of
the large* figure of a man 10ft. 6in, high.
His opinion was read at the seventh
meeting of the Australasian Association
for the Advancement of Science at Syd-
ney in 1898. The signs, he said, were
“easily recognisable as those of early
Turunian syllabary employed by the
ancestors of the Japanese and kindred
peoples, of which inscriptions have been
found in Siberia and Japan, and of which
the Korean alphabet is a lineal
descendant.”
The lecturer had little hesitation in
calling the inscription ancient Japanese,
and said that it was plain that 62 Japanese
were cast ashore on the western coast
near the caves. The meaning of the signs
was: “The number of the hopeless is
,” the 62 circles indicating how many.
Their landfall, Dr, Campbell considered,
could not have been later than the 12th
century, as at that time the old charac-
ters were superseded by the modified
Chinese used in Japan today.
All the available evidence suggests that
the paintings were not conceived by
aboriginal craftsmen, although they may
have been drawn under the influence and
tutelage of shipwrecked voyagers, either
from Europe or the East. The Asiatics
knew of the existence of Australia long
before European voyagers. The Chinese
knew of the existence of a Great South-
land as early as 1420, and records show
that in 1477 Emperor Ying Tsung had a
remarkably clear porcelain map of the
Australian outline. A Chinese admiral,
Cheng Ho, is reputed to have circum-
navigated the Great Southland with 62
ships.— Clem Lack (Q.).
“Coast to Coast”
It seems strange that an anthology
which aims to print the cream of modern
Australian short stories should rely on
writers’ voluntary submissions. It is
apparently assumed that all those who
have written good stories will submit one
or more, and that a writer can judge what
is best of his or her own work.
One of the virtues of a book of short
stories is that it can reflect vividly and
in many facets the contemporary scene.
Also, every story can deliver a message
which, in the very essence of its concise-
ness, may have power and penetration.
The whole collection, as a work of art,
can greatly enhance the literary tradition.
Commercially, books of short stories
are notoriously unprofitable, but a regu-
lar anthology like Coast to Coast, while
on the job, should make a survey and
not take just what is offered. — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
Taxing Lotteries
The Bulletin dropped into State
Premiers’ laps a nice hint about taxing lot-
tery-wins from other States (B. 15/9/’54).
Uniform taxation did not deprive the
States of their power to impose income
tax ; it simply gave the Commonwealth
first cut, after which there was nothing
worth while left for the States.
Lottery-wins are an untouched source
for the taxgatherer, and there is no
known constitutional bar to a State tax-
ing its residents on such gains from its
own or other State lotteries.
It is a wonder that the churches are
not advocating such a move to encourage
people to invest their money in a more
sensible way.— Tax Agent (N.S.W.).
G.B.S.
During tfie latter part of his life,
newspaper - editors regarded George
Bernard Shaw as a good source of copy.
They sought his opinion on anything
under the sun, and this deference to his
opinions undoubtedly encouraged Shaw
to develop what would be regarded as
delusions of grandeur in a less prominent
“Me corns're playin' up somethin' cruel."
person. So sure was he of a permanent
niche in literature that he made over his
home, Ayot St. Lawrence, to the National
Trust of England as a literary shrine.
So few people have visited the place
since his death that the trust is seeking
a suitable tenant for what has proved to
be a white elephant.
Shaw left an estate of over a quarter
of a million, most of it to be devoted to
providing the English language with a
new alphabet of some 40 letters. He
ignored the fact that millions and mil-
lions of pounds would be needed to alter
linotype machines and typewriters, while
the imagination boggles at the way in
which it would upset business and
economic life if anyone tried to do it.
The ironical aspect of the matter is
found in the opportunities which Shaw
overlooked. “John o’ London’s,” Britain’s
only surviving literary magazine, has
ceased publication “for economic rea-
sons.” If, Shaw had endowed it, or a
new magazine of the type, with
£lOO,OOO or so it would have been able
to keep going indefinitely.
He could have left the rest of his for-
tune to establish a fund to award cash
prizes for the best novels, plays, short
stories and poems, thus encouraging
people of talent to write more of the stuff
which stands a chance of being added to
the classics. Such bequests might have
led to his memory being more effectively
perpetuated.
There appears to be nothing to stop
the trustees of the Shaw estate from
devoting the money to something sensible.
They may have done so, but if they have
no mention of it appears to have been
made in Australian newspapers.—H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Australian Wine
Like Charles Meeking (B. 1/9/’54), I
am unmoved by the moaning of Aus-
tralian wine-producers about competition
abroad, although I think they get a raw
deal from Britain.
They have done little to build up a
home-market for the light red and white
wines which are essentially for drinking
with meals. Served in hotel dining-
rooms the charge is 100 per cent, more
than the merchants’ price.
And hotels are permitted to have claret,
hock and chablis on their bar-shelves in
quart bottles. An occasional customer
will have a claret, hock or chablis and
soda. After his drink the bottle, loosely
corked, is put back on the shelf. A week
or more later another similar drink is
served from the same bottle. What the
drinker gets then is acetic-acid, and he
declares angrily that Australian light wine
is rotgut.
The best of our light wines are excel-
lent, comparing favorably with those of
Europe, but only a small percentage of
Australians are educated to drink wine
with food. Producers have done little to
educate them. Wine - saloons, often
frowsy affairs, sell mostly heavily forti-
fied port or muscatel, which appeal to
undiscriminating palates and provide an
alcoholic glow at comparatively small
cost to the drinker.
Incidentally, Australia has not yet pro-
duced a sherry comparable with the
Spanish wine. Some of our sherries are
palatable and quite pleasant, but no one
with any palate and knowledge of wine
could mistake even the best of them for
the delicious dry sherry of Spain.—
G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Transmitting News
A modern newspaper would not make
much profit if, as “V.J.H.” puts it (B.
15/9/’54), “a good percentage of the
stuff transmitted (between the capitals
and large provincial towns) is never used
by the receiving newspapers.”
Most Australian newspapers in the
capital cities have their own men in the
various capitals and at Canberra, and
they do an excellent job in sending their
news much the same as it is printed.
First, before the line is opened, they
check with their news-editor on the space
available, what stories are likely to break,
how they should be presented and how
much should be written on each piece.
Of course this is only approximate, but
on checking-up in the early hours of the
morning I have rarely found the estimate
of eight hours ago too far out.
When news has to get into editions
quickly it' must be sent so that little sub-
editing, apart from headings, is neces-
sary. And the modern newspaper-editor
chooses his inter-State men on their
ability to assess the worth of a story for
his particular paper and send what is
required, no less and no more.
But if “V.J.H.” were to apply his argu-
ment to the overseas news, that is quite
different. Much more than is required
is sent, because the agency (A.A.P.) is
catering for a much wider field of news-
papers, all of whom have different treat-
ment of different events overseas.—
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Time-payment
Time-payment is useful within reason,
but carried to excess it certainly can be
dangerous (B. 1/9/’54). In the opinion
of those qualified to judge, it is being
used too recklessly in Australia.
Many retailers are offering to sell
goods on no deposit. The deposit is
essentL'l to the satisfactory working of
time-p!fytiient. Without its restraining
influence many people are liable to be-
come too heavily involved. Then, if
there is even a minor economic recession,
they cannot maintain their payments,
and the whole system is threatened with
ruin.
It is a mistake to think that the Welfare
State has obviated the need for saving.
Where else are Governments to get the
finance for public works and defence pro-
jects, and industry the capital for replace-
ment of wasting assets and for expansion?
It is not the spendthrifts who finance
undertakings like the Snowy River pro-
ject and the Ampol search for oil io
W.A. — Economist (N.S.W.).


I ■'
NISSEN TYPE EX-U.S.
*
fd
H|6 36St x 16ft x 10£t
With aluminium sheeting* £195
N6O 60ft x 24ft X 12ft
With aluminium sheeting* £375
• The corrugated aluminium covering Is an effective insu-
lator. It does not rust and requires neither paint nor
maintenance.
• Raised foundations give added height.
• Of strong, simple design for erection by unskilled labour.
• Inexpensive protection for machinery, livestock, stores, grain, fodder, vehicles, etc.
• Cheapest suitable structure for a workshop, garage or factory.
• Complete with specially selected steel ribs, in good condition, new and unused
corrugated aluminium sheeting, pre-fabricated new hardwood purlins, and all new
fixings (no ends).
0 Plans, building instructions, and directions for mixing earth cement.
• Delivery free on rail within 7 days of order.
• Money will be refunded if inspection of materials at railhead does not satisfy purchaser.
Remittance by cheque crossed and marked “A/c Payee Only” and
adequate delivery instructions must accompany order. Please add
exchange to country cheques.
Building Division
IVORY & BARTON
44 Shirley Road, Wolfstonceraft, Sydney
XR3424
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A SUNNY morning for the
opening of the Melbourne
Royal Show, and a crowd keenly
interested in the judging. Cattle
were in good condition after a
dryish winter, and quality was
fairly even. At 459 for beef
breeds, and 1690 for dairy-cattle,
numbers were slightly ahead of
last year’s line-up for both types.
A slight decline in numbers of
Herefords, Dairy Shorthorns and
Ayrshires was more than com-
pensated by gains in most other
breeds.
Although imported entries
took several championships,
local cattle were of a good
standard, and impressed the two
overseas judges—Gordon Black-
stock, of Scotland, and John
Cumber, of England. Blackstock
judged the Horned and Poll
Shorthorns, and Cumber judged
the Dairy Shorthorns.
As in previous years, junior
cattle took the senior champion-
ships in several breeds. Black-
stock, who awarded the dual
championship to classy young
Shorthorn and Poll Shorthoi n
bulls, explained that such a posi-
tion doesn’t arise in Scotland,
where the junior champion is
not eligible for the senior cham-
pionship. There, the two cham-
pions meet in a separate contest
for the supreme championship
of the breed.
This young judge, who has
officiated at Perth (Scotland) and
Palermo (Argentina), awarded
both senior and junior Shorthorn
bull championships and reserve
championships to outstanding
youngsters from the large
yearling class, exhibited respec-
tively by D. R. McCaughey, of
Wagga (N.S.W.), and C. P. Fair-
bairn, of Albury (N.S.W.).
The dual champion, Coornong
Adonis, from C. Viking, also
won the U.K. Shorthorn
Breeders’ Silver Cup, and the
Coornong and Drummond
Trophies, and shared the Robert
Clarke Memorial Cup for pairs
with its team-mate C. Anni-
versary.
There was less tail in the cows
and heifers than in the larger
classes for bulls. The champion
cow Belinda Broadhooks 2,
paraded by Sir Rupert Clarke, of
Clarkefield, near Melbourne, had
a wonderful head and was the
sweetest Shorthorn cow the
judge had seen since he left
Scotland.
The junior champion—D, R.
McCaughey’s C. Augusta Pride —
which also won the senior reserve
championship, was very wide and
thick, and had a wonderful back-
line. However, she only narrowly
HEREFORDS LINED-UP FOR JUDGING AT THE ROYAL MELBOURNE SHOW.
defeated Berrawinnia Pastoral
Co.’s (Booroorban, N.S.W.) War-
willah Cinderella into the junior
reserve position. Frank Hood
(Albury, N.S.W.) paraded a nice
young heifer to win the Tren-
chard Trophy and complete an
almost clean sweep of major
prizes for N.S.W.
Although small numerically,
the Poll Shorthorns included
several outstanding entries. The
dual male champion, Milly Milly
Field Marshal, was an attractive
young sire entered by H. and H.
McFarlane, of Young (N.S.W.).
Senior and junior reserve cham-
pionships went to bulls from
Wallace Bruce’s (Yarrawonga,
Vic.) and H. and H. McFarlane's
teams.
Again, the cows and heifers
were, on the whole, stronger.
Senior championship went to one
of the best cows Blackstock has
ever seen H. and H.
McFarlane’s M. M. Ecstasy,
reserve champion, M. M. Eliza-
beth, and the junior champion.
M. M. Felicity, were from' the
same stud.
All the McFarlane champions
were sired by Netherby Imperial
Command. J. A. Thomas, of
Mulwala (N.S.W.), entered the
junior reserve champion, Rose-
wood Parks Snow Queen.
Absence of Mrs. Janet Biddle-
combe’s famous Golf Hill
stud, which dominated,the Here-
ford ring in several States for
many years, and which was dis-
persed about a year ago, left a
big hole in the Hereford parade.
However, quality was not lack-
ing, and Jim Allen, of South
Boorook (Vic.), continued his
remarkable run of successes with
dual male champions.
In 1950 he did it with South
Boorook England ; in 1952 with
S. B. Livingston; in 1953 with
S. B. Brimfield ; and this year
with S. B. Carlton (sire, Vern
Australia). S. B. Carlton’s win
gave Allen the Colly Creek
Trophy, which had to be won
three times in succession. The
leading breeder also won the
Mrs. Biddlecombe Trophy for
the second successive year, and
the Frank Reynolds Trophy for
the best pair of bulls. Both bulls
in the winning pair this year
were also sired by Vern Aus-
tralia (imp.).
Senior and junior reserve
championships were won respec-
tively by entries from D. Lang-
ham of Yanco (N.S.W.) and
Herbert Field Pty. Ltd. Among
the females, Herbert Field’s
Red Hill Purity won both
senior and junior championships
from R. L. McEachern’s Ardno
Gladiola 26. Red Hill, by the
way, is a fine property between
Adjurigbilly and Gobarralong
(N.S.W.).
Poll Herefords continued their
recent advance in quality and
numbers, with an excellent entry
of 97 good beasts. The senior
champion bull, Milton Deputy 4,
was bred by Anthony Hordern
and exhibited by S. T. and C. H.
Hawkins of Shepparton (Vic.).
This meaty aristocrat showed
excellent bulk and fleshing, and
paraded attractively.
In reserve position was the
junior champion, Brewarrana
Dictator, bred by W. J. Lenehan
of Narrandera (N.S.W.) and
exhibited by K. G. Luke of
Romsey (Vic.). D. and M. Car-
negie and Co. of Holbrook
(N.S.W.) paraded the junior
reserve champion, Kildrummie
Samson 3.
Championships for cows and
heifers were distributed more
evenly as follow: Senior, Dookie
Agricultural College’s Dookie
Wisten ; reserve, K. G. Luke’s
Deepfields Coral 2. Junior, R. G.
Bryant’s (Camperdown, Vic.)
Mt. Hamilton Mabel Rollo 2 by
Russels Axtell (imp. U.S.A.);
reserve, K. G. Luke’s D. Jewel 3.
Luke also won with his Sire’s
Progeny group by Beau Domino
(imp. U.S.A.).
Black Polls also continued
their recent advance, and com-
manded keen attention from a
critical and expert ring through-
out the day. The young judge,
Michael F. White of Scone
(N.S.W.), had some difficulty in
picking the supreme champion,
but decided finally on the beau-
tifully built cow Battery Park
Show Girl, exhibited by L. and
A. Graves of Mansfield. This
beautiful representative of the
breed displayed an excellent
breeding body and outstanding
hindquarters. She was paraded
in prime condition. In the final
line-up for the supreme cham-
pionship, she didn’t walk as well
as the champion bull, Mt. Wil-
liam Monogram, entered by W.
J. R. Wilson of Lancefield
(Vic.). However, other qualities
gave a narrow win over the run-
ner-up, which had an attractive
head.
The champion bull beat John
Bott’s (Yarrawonga, Vic.)
Naranghi Bevan, get of the
imported pair Eveltor of Hatch-
gate and Becoming Maid of
Gallowhill. In the junior cham-
pionship Bott’s chunky N.
Wharfie (by Eveltor of Hatch-
gate) won from its team-mate
N. Len (by another imported
bull Benvue of Clackmae).
Although B. P. Show Girl
appeared to dominate the Aber-
deen Angus females, she was
pressed closely by Hugh Middle-
ton’s (Clematis, Vic.) Edzell Elf,
which won the reserve cham-
pionship. Junior championship
was won by Terrinallum stud’s
(Lily dale, Vic.) Terrinallum
Pearl 4 (by the famous Kahlua
Cairo), with John Bott’s N.
Freckle 2 reserve champion.
The small entry of Devons
showed a decided improvement
in quality over the last few years,
and provided keen competition
among three breeders. Most
successful of these was Table
Top Estate (N.S.W.) winning
senior and junior bull champion-
ships with Table Top Earl and
the junior reserve championship
with T. T. Naughty Boy. The
same stud bred T. T. Hero 33
which won the senior reserve
championship for A. A. Laidlaw
of Ararat (Vic.).
Champion cow, Kilmorey
South Myrtle, was paraded by
the consistent exhibitor Mrs.
Janet M. Officer of Warrnam-
bool. Reserve champion, T. T.
Rhoda, was sired by the imported
Gamlin’s Hero. Both of the
leading heifers, The Hill Crafty
and The Hill Jenny, were sired
by Bari Ban Flush and exhibited
by A, A. Laidlaw.
Lowana.
W.A. Honey
“B-herd”: A world record in
honey-production has been set
in W.A. by R. E. Smith and his
industrious bees. A matter of
7841b. of honey per colony (13
601b. tins) over the flow-period.
Thirteen tins of honey over a
few months from a big stand of
bees sets a man in the mogul
class, but, like most individual
records, this one doesn’t give an
average picture of production
for the State. W.A. has led the
Commonwealth in honey-pro-
duction over the last few years,
but the figure is nowhere near
the above. The lead has been
maintained with the surprisingly
low figure of 1121b. per hive, not
quite two tins.
The main flora of W.A. are
pretty well known: what is not
so commonly known is the fac
that over 100 species are attrac-
tive to the bees. And when the
W.A. forests turn the nectar on,
there’s no confusing it with
honey-dew. Not so long ago,
two N.S.W. beemen smelt the
nectar and their 2000-hive shift,
plus trucks, living- and extract-
ing-vans, west to the jarrah-
forests made history.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Situation unchanged, since the immediate weather after
this month depends on the Uranian Cycle, an uncertain
factor. If the cycle develops, October rains will be heavy
and frequent, followed by good rain in November; if not,
the rain will not be so good. _
The unexpected sunspot in March has influenced the
unusual number of hurricanes in the Northern Hemisphere
this season, and the full effect of this may be felt in Aus-
tralia in the tropical North, and along the east coast, in
February and March next year.


HOMESTEADS AND COUNTRY
cottages TO YOUR DESIGN
n uu
iSSfe* I?WsS ' '><??&* "•% ■» * . '
,xiv
Above:—A Bowas 2-storey homestead situated in North-West Queensland
BOWAS patented CONSTRUCTION
offers you these advantages — *
| jS The simplicity and ease of timber-
frame construction plus the strength,
rigidity and durability of steel.
A solid, permanent structure not
affected by dry rot or white ants.
A building easily dismantled,
re-erected or added to.
Consult our architects for any floor
plan and design, single or two storey,
for Bowas Homesteads, Country
Cottages and Rural Accommodation
buildings.
BOWAS
features—
Patented steel •
wood-steel frame
members, precision
cut to size and
assembled by
bolting.
All walls inside
and out — flooring,
roofing, etc. nailed
on as in timber-
frame construction.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Sfeel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.}, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
ADD WITH
ONE FINGER
—fosf and accurately
Why waste your time and energy in tedious adding up, and
risk making costly errors? With this amazing high-speed
Adding Machine you can reduce the brain-fag of adding figures
to a one-finger operation—and get right answers every time I
k
personal portable ADDING MACHINE
can be mastered in five minutes. Over 13,000 are already in
use in Australia. Businesses of every kind—big and small—
farmers, professional men, find Contex a life-saver. Contex
adds in whole numbers, £ s. d., decimals, weights and
measures. It will take the burden of “figure-work” off your
shoulders for a mere
£23/10/-
Handsome carrying
case, 55/- extra
CHARTRES ua.
SYDNEY;
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE:
875 Collins St.
PERTH:
E. 0. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
DEVONPORT
Coffee and Tea
HOW do you set about grow-
ing coffee or tea on New
Guinea’s Western Highlands?
An earlier article said something
about getting the land and, since,
the question has been asked a
good many times. This is an
attempt to answer it.
You’ve picked a couple of hun-
dred acres of sloping kunai
ground. The slope makes drain-
ing easier. The yearly 130in. of
downpour makes drainage your
first chore. Undrained, the
potential coffee-land is too soggy
for the gold-tree.
Your local labor is expert at
drainage. For about five
thousand years the indigenes
have been digging fighting-
ditches. They can dig a drain
6ft. deep and 2ft. wide, a mile
long and straight as a comic-
strip hero.
Normally draining for a
month or two makes the land
ready to plant coffee or tea. Let’s
talk about coffee first.
While the land is being drained
and cleared for kunai-grass the
roofed seed-beds have borne
close-packed coffee-plants, ready
for planting-out. Young trees
must be shielded from the equa-
torial sun, so seed-beds are
roofed, and crotellaria grown
between the permanent coffee
rows. Crotellaria grows quickly
and gives initial shelter to the
newly planted-out coffee-trees.
As the trees mature the crotel-
laria is gradually pruned to let
the sun on the coffee ; and the
hacked-off crotellaria branches
moulder on the ground and put
nitrogen back in the soil. Pea-
nuts grown under the coffee do
the same thing for the soil.
Wahgi Valley soil will carry these
three crops simultaneously with-
out noticeable deterioration.
The fertility of this soil is fan-
tastic by most standards. Vol-
canic silt, with heavy rainfall
and ah equatorial sun. Altitude
around 5400ft. Temperatures a
year-round 55-78 degrees.
With the ground cleared and
sufficiently dry so you can walk
over it without sinking hock-
deep in the loam you plant-out
the piccaninny trees from the
seed-beds. Your kanakas dig
holes a couple of feet deep and
4ft. apart, and use a wooden
triangular jig to keep spacing
even and the rows straight. Rows
run east and west so the sun
enfilades the position. Your
shade-crotellaria is now 3ft. high
and rising fast.
When the coffee-trees are
about 3ft. high and the crotel-
laria by this time Bft. or 10ft.
(three-and-a-half years’ patience,
chum) the main fork of the tree
is spread with a horizontally
inserted strut. Spreads the bear-
ing branches to the sun. The
Young coffee-trees in New Guinea.
more branches and the more sun
on ’em at this stage the more
coffee. The coffee ripens red and
cherry-like along the branches
when the trees are between three
and four years old. The trees at
this eagerly awaited wacko-
eureka stage are about 4ft. 6in.
high. They grow eventually to
about 14-16 ft., bearing all the
time. Hardy plants. When writer
left the Wahgi in June this year
no effective pests had been re-
ported.
Coffee keeps bearing till the
soil beneath it is exhausted. The
trees at Wau have been bearing
25-28 years. Recently in Brazil,
where coffee has an older his-
tory, it became necessary to find
new territory. Kenya’s coffee
land is similar in altitude and
climate to New Guinea’s and has
been longer settled. No com-
plaints yet from Kenya.
Bearing coffee-trees are
stripped daily of the ripe, red
“cherries.” These are skinned of
the outer red covering and put in
water in wooden containers to
ferment for four to five days.
Fermentation removes a slimy
inner fluid surrounding the twin
“beans” in a cherry, and thereby
prepares the beans for sun-
drying.
Fermentation complete, the
slime rubs easily off a bean be-
tween finger and thumb. Beans
are then spread on a tray in the
sun, perhaps for four or five
days; until they are so hard that
neither teeth nor fingernails can
mark them. Then an inner skin
crackles easily off the beans
under hand- or machine-treat-
ment. The final skin is like the
paper-thin inner skin of a peanut
and is rubbed off by hand or
winnowed by a wind-machine.
Now the coffee is marketable.
For your own consumption you
roast the beans turning them on
an oven-tray or in a revolving
drum, perforated to admit the
heat. When the beans turn
coffee-brown and give-off the
expected aroma you can grind
them and have a brew. A note-
worthy occasion with your own
coffee. At present, bearing New
Guinea coffee brings about £350
per acre per year.
Tea takes roughly the same
time to become pickable. It
likewise starts in sheltered seed-
beds and is out-planted under
crotellaria shade. Leaves are
picked at a set distance above
the ground to form a hedgelike
flat-top along each row. Leaves
rising above this level are pick-
able. As the trees grow higher
the level is raised. At first pick-
ing the level is about 4ft. above
the ground.
The picked leaves are allowed
to wilt in shade for 24 hours.
Then they are kneaded or rolled
by hand for two hours. After
which an hour left in a dark
place makes them ready for
oven-drying. Here, like the
coffee-beans, the tea-leaves must
be constantly turned to dry
evenly. But they must not get
hot enough to roast or cook.
Usually within two hours they
are dry and brown and brittle.
Then they may be hand-
broken to the small and aromatic
particles we find in the packages
we buy at'the grocer’s. The rules
aren’t rigid—New Guinea men
are still experimenting. Some
say you can drink the tea imme-
diately it’s dry. I found it had a
slightly “grassy” smell which dis-
appeared in a week or so. This
could be due to incomplete dry-
ing in the oven. The tea had a
pleasant China tang, when
thoroughly dried. The trees I
had most to do with derived
from • Assam and had gone
through intermediate condition-
ing in Queensland.
But even under the rather
fumbling supervision of a new-
chum to the area both brews had
a lip-smacking flavor. Nature is
so kind to both herbs in these
highlands that growing them is
almost unskilled labor.
Jack Lusby.
Keyline Plan
AJrANY books about agricul-
ture are written either by
information - stuffed specialists
who, no doubt, are very sound
if one could contrive to read
them, or by headlong enthusiasts
who give the impression that
they can hardly wait until they
have turned their first furrow
before writing a book about it.
Thus we have Virgil in his
innocence recommending an
infamous practice;
Firing their light stubble with
crackling flames; uncertain
It is whether the earth conceives a
mysterious strength
And sustenance thereby, or
whether the fire burns out
Her bad humors ... 1
Voltaire, having become a
wealthy man and a landowner,
wrote in a pamphlet that if a
sufficient number of cattle were
enclosed in a barren field for a
long enough period it would be-
come fertile. Henry Williamson
wrote charmingly about the mis-
takes he made on his Norfolk
farm, and Louis Bromfield, after
making pots of money writing
romantic novels, became
emotional in print about the soil
when he turned to farming.
Into this general category we
must place P. A. Yeomans,
whose book, The Key line Plan,
was reviewed on this page some
weeks back. Indeed, the author
would hardly bother to deny it,
since he makes no secret of the
fact that his practical experience
of farming has been limited.
But even while we admire the
keenness with which this
successful businessman and
engineer has attacked the basic
problems of Australian agricul-
ture, there seems to be some
danger of oversimplification in
such an approach. Yeomans is
just as urgent as Bromfield about
the need to preserve the world’s
agricultural lands, but instead of
recommending unremitting care
and thought (as Bromfield does),
his solution, both in method and
means, is astonishingly simple.
Of the two chief principles
advocated one, that of absorb-
ing the rainfall into the soil by
deep-ripping in the contour, has
been experimented with by the
soil-conservation people with
considerable success. Although,
so far as I know, they did not
(Continued on next page)


The "FARMERS' BOY" t.* “e N ’ s P £
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x tin. "metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet. ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations:
C
N.S.W.; GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W426X.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
MUSS6I.
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND). LTD., 443 Adelaide St..
Brisbane. FA2631.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
sf
SIMPLEX
1.000-
32-VOLT, WATER-COOLED
HOME LIGHTING SET
Powered by Simplex 3-
4 h.p., four-stroke petrol
engine, water-cooled with
tank, running at 1,100
r.p.m. Heavy-duty, ball-
bearing generator driven by
vee belts. Engine has roller
main bearings, precision
governor and impulse starter
magneto. Complete with wall-
mounting instrument panel.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home
lighting or agricultural use.
£175
Batteries extra, 155 amp. hr. or 225 amp. hr.
capacity, quoted on request.
HARDMAN AND HALL
161 MISSENDEN ROAD, NEWTOWN. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage
matter where your home may he,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FUES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
Ilie treated sterile sewerage i*
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISXKIBUTOBS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), Saunders House, Ho
Wickham St., The Valley. Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.). Pty., Ltd.. 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dia-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, EadolectrU
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
use the multiple-tyne chisel-
plough.
A rich reward is promised if
we take this advice. By gradu-
ally chiselling deeper and deeper
through the hardpan and into
the sub-soil, and turning in
generous amounts of vegetable-
matter, we will have, in two or
three years, not the present few
inches of fertile soil but over a
foot depth of it, rich, moist and
always productive. And at the
same time, by virtue of the
improved nature of the soil, all
erosion hazards will disappear,
No need for contour-banks, pas-
ture-furrows, strip-cropping or
any of the other troublesome
recommendations of the soil-
conservation experts.
Up to this point, Mr. Yeo-
mans, by virtue of his earnest-
ness and his logic, has my ad-
miration. But as soon as he gets
on his “Keyline Plan” (which is
the real message of the book)
the enthusiast takes control.
The “Keyline” is a surveyed,
level line running at the foot of
the hillside on Mr. Yeomans’s
farm, where the high land
merges into the flats. This is the
only line he needs to survey, and
all cultivation above or below it
is done parallel to this “Key-
line.” Now, anyone who has
plotted contour-lines knows that
(except on perfectly plane land)
they do not run in parallel. If
one puts furrow beside furrow
along a contour for any length of
time it soon ceases to be a con-
tour-line ; at some points it rises
and at other points it falls,
according to the changes in the
conformation of the land,
Here the reader has to con-
centrate all his faculties on the
text and maps or he will be
confounded: this is where the
mag ic of the “Keyline” becomes
evident. As the furrows extend
U p the hillside and depart from
the level line they automatically
assume surprising virtues;
always their trend is such that
they lead the surplus water along
the bottom of the furrows away
from the vulnerable gullies and
towards safe higher ground,
Now it is evident from his maps
that this could happen if the
folds in the land conformed to
a certain regular pattern. One
can even admit that possibly on
his farm it so happened all the
way up from the valley-floor to
the hilltops. Nevertheless, it
would be perfectly simple to
draw a map of another farm, on
which the same system would
tend to lead surplus water from
the safe areas towards the vul-
nerable ones. It could even be
shown that in certain circum-
stances the furrows would soon
be running straight up and
down the side of a steep hill,
It is evident that, in the
matter of levels, Mr. Yeomans
is no novice. He admits that on
some farms, lacking the hillside
and flat formation, there would
be no unmistakable “Keyline.”
For these unfortunate places he
recommends a “Guideline,”
arrived at by various com-
promises. This “Guideline”
assumes most of the qualities of
the “Keyline” in that it forms
the basic line for most of the
farm’s operations.
The question which hammers
at the reader all the time is this.
If the fanner wants to make
furrows on the contour, why
should he not peg his line with
a dumpy-level at regular inter-
vals and be sure of what he is
doing? And if in certain places
he wants to lead surplus water
from one part to another, why
shouldn’t he survey a line with a
safe, regular fall instead of rely-
ing on the unpredictable de-
velopments arising from an
arbitrarily selected “Keyline” at
the foot of the hillside?
It seems that the idea of a
“Keyline,” and even the sound
of the word, has an overmaster-
ing fascination for Mr. Yeo-
mans. His farm, now that he
has adopted this system, has be-
come something more than a
farm—it is a “Keyline Farm.”
It has huge “Keyline” dams,
fed with water from “Keyline”
drains ; “Keyline” pastures are
spray-irrigated with “Keyline”
water, and cows (one almost
said Keyline kine), after feed-
ing on the abundant herbage,
rest themselves in the shade of
“Keyline” timber-strips.
All this odd nomenclature
would be harmless if it were not
for the possibility of it having an
unduly impressive effect. Many
farmers are prone to seize on a
novel and unorthodox solution
to their erosion and soil-fertility
problems which is both simple
in principle and cheap in opera-
tion. And Mr. Yeomans’s Key-
line Plan is all that. Only one
contour-line to peg instead of
hundreds: while the chisel-
plough’s deep-furrowing along
this line is done as a part of the
ordinary soil-cultivation, when
planting a crop or improving a
pasture.
As Mr. Yeomans states, it
actually costs nothing; and
nothing is exactly the sum of
money many farmers are willing
to spend on soil-restoration.
Thus it could readily happen that
farmers, lacking the judgment
Mr. Yeomans expects of them,
could select a supposed “Key-
line” and follow it blindly, to
the grave harm of their proper-
ties. I have an uncomfortable
feeling that the chisel-plough
could have an irresistible appeal
for the rapacious type of power-
farmer. Let him be once con-
vinced that there is unlimited
fertility sealed below the hard-
pan and he will be after it, with
the biggest chisel-plough and the
most powerful tractor he can
buy. Chiselling deeper and
deeper, meanwhile neglecting
that essential concomitant, the
turning-in of large amounts of
vegetable-matter. For where is
the Australian farmer who can
bear to bury good grass which
could be feeding sheep or cows?
Then, when the big rains come,
a foot of soil will go instead of
a few inches.
This would be a most unfor-
tunate result from the book, be-
cause throughout it the author
is concerned only with how to
build-up fertility in a farm;
never how to extract profits.
The photographs and the colored
plates show that on his own farm
he has been lavish with care and
expenditure; the prodigious
water-storage system ; the spray-
irrigation scheme ; the lush pas-
tures and the fat cattle make it
look more like a thousand-acre
paradise than an average Aus-
tralian farm, and indicate a
generosity with fertiliser and
pasture-sowing and a restraint
in stocking which in themselves
would mean the salvation of
almost any farm.
Whatever flaws there may be
in Mr. Yeomans’s agricultural
theories his farm will come to
no harm while his practices are
so excellent.
E. O. Schlunke.
Lambing Ewes
“Mr.”; The following routine
is advised for lambing ewes.
Drench for worms, using a l|oz.
dose of phenothiazine made
from a mixture con-
taining 71b. phenothiazine-
powder. Place the ewes in a
paddock spelled for four weeks
and repeat the drench in 21
days.
To prevent breech - stain,
drench off the shearing-board
after crutching. To control
twin-lamb disease commence
feeding early in pregnancy with
high-quality supplements and,
where losses of lambs before
one month old have occurred
previously, vaccinate ewes with
pulpy-kidney vaccine 14 days
before lambing.
On properties where lambs, in
past years, have not got to their
feet when dropped, test for a
vitamin A deficiency in their
mothers by drenching a pilot
group of ewes, each with 500,000
units of vitamin A, about the
third month of pregnancy.
Finally, lamb ewes down in a
sheltered paddock which has not
been stocked with breeders for
some years.
Zenith Sheep
“Horseless H.”: Not much
has been written about the
Zenith, yet another breed of
Australian sheep evolved from
the Lincoln and Merino. L. L.
Bassett, a top wheatgrower (he’s
won too many crop competitions
to mention) and a former
breeder of stud Merinos, evolved
the Zenith over a period of 30
years.
The new breed is a standard-
ised comeback carrying a mas-
sive 60-64’s fleece, and with a
robust frame. I’ve seen them on
Bassett’s place in Victoria, and
also on Gordon Hogg’s property,
over the N.S.W. border. If the
dual-purpose characteristics can
be maintained in the hands of
the flock men, we’re likely to
hear more about them.
Bassett’s consistent aim has
been to establish the comeback
as a breed, maintaining the
great Merino qualities in the
head, feet and wool. Merino
and Lincoln blood only were
used, then the type was fixed by
in-breeding and, later, by lir*-
breeding. The sheep are polls.
Over a recent period of four
years Bassett’s sheep cut 14? lb.
of wool consistently. In 1952
Zenith wethers from the property
topped the Newmarket sales as
fats at £ll 4s. The sheep are
quiet to handle and are great
mothers.
Four to five years back Bassett,
under pressure (he thought it
was too soon), sold the first
Zenith ewes and a top ram to
Gordon Hogg, who came back
for more and now has a stud.
More studs sprang up in the
southern districts. Demand for
these rams to mate with Corrie-
dale or Corriedale-Merino ewes
has been heavy. For fat-lambs,
of course, as with other local
dual-purpose breeds, the best
combination is a Down ram on
a Zenith ewe.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 297
Across
I—Fusses1 —Fusses caused when a Yorkshire
city takes an Arts degree to Anita,
author of “Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes.” (11)
7 Barker to follow. (3)
8 — Cobra to scorn it differently for
the cobra’s big cousin. (3-11)
10—More talented blare is disturbing
to it. (5) , .
13— Yours Truly is to study a holy
image. (4)
14— Hart’s missus. (3)
15— In mid-afternoon, I am the A. A.
Milne character who passes by.
17— SLd. • CO
19—Little girl with a telegraphist s
symbol. (3)
21 — Eggs you to provide a suitable
accompaniment for Casan. (3)
22 He puts out the islands litigant.
(6)
23 — The first person in France going
on through a black hour with love
for Moses’s father-in-law. (6)
25 —In addition. (3)
27—One of the extremities, but not
of calendars. (3)
29—The result of laying three notes
on the piano? (3)
31 — Desired to have him indeed! (3)
32 Frigid bicycle part? (3)
33 He employs a secret ruse for sure.
(4)
34 Don’t stop tinning the cleric. (5)
37 — Disloyal unionists dive into the
surf! (6, 8)
38 — Herr English carrying one wool-
grower back. (3)
39 — Six on hee-haw’s bus who always
had the government’s faith? (5,
2,4)
Down
1 — Boston Shakspeare who had a
hungry dog? (7)
2 Some greenery allows dodgers.
(8)
3 Senator who takes half a day
over our love affair. (5)
4 German thus written in addition.
(4)
5 The French bear yours and mine.
(4)
6 Falstaff’s wine to coagulate first
as a mark of penitence. (9)
7 Have dinner put around ! on a
famous Canadian producer. (6)
9 —Seize a hilltop when beheading
North American barbarians. (3)
11 — Disapproval of Crosby swallow-
ing a couple of ducks. (6)
12 — The cube of iii is to be multiplied
by ii. (3)
15— Sharpener upset the luggage. (5)
16— Sweet reversal or the rank of
Barbara Undershaft. (5)
18 —A member of a lodge stands over
a corporal like a half-tamed
horse. (6)
20 —Urgent alteration that is matched
against a Russian novelist. (9)
24—Draught for Noel? (8)
26—Tanker’s cargo. (3)
28—Day does without a very un-
pleasant line of rulers. (7)
29—Listener. (3)
30—He disembowels a drain. (6)
34—Phar Lap was fed up with such
banter. (5)
35—Improper dice of the deity. (4)
36 — A brother for Uncle Remus. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 296


GOVT. DISPOSAL DEALERS
AERO, Till)
TYKES
TRACTOR
x S
C 3*
03 g.
3 FEET 6 INCHES
Off the famous Beaufort
Bomber. These tyres would
be suitable for Tractors or
Targe Semi Trailers, or any
Station Vehicle. Would be
a useful article in soft
ground. The tyre itself
would carry 20 tons. The
width of the tyre is 12in. and
the height of the tyre is 3ft.
6in. The hub is 14in. These
tyres would cost over £2OO
to buy.
Complete article: Tyre, Tube
and Hub f no bearings:—
1400 x 14. Price £3O each.
1700 x 16. Tube and Hub
with bearings,
£3O each
AERO TYRES AND TUBES
new and second-hand
TYKES TUBES
1400 x 14— NEW £7/10/- 75/-
1600 x 16—S.H. £6/10/- 70/-
1600 x 16—S.H. £6/10/- 70/-
1700 X 16—S.H. £6/10/- 70/-
AERO TYRE TUBE S WHEEL
Size STiri.
Bearing Centre S.H. Xyre. Will carry
4 tons.
Price £lB/-/- pr.
16x4 ABBO XYBE, TUBE & WHEEL
PBICE £5/10/-
An Ideal Wheelbarrow Wheel
BRAND NEW TRUCK TYRES AND TUBES
Size 900 x 16 x 10 Ply, Comm. Tread. Price £22/10/- Tyre, £2/10/- Tube.
1050 x 16 x 12 Ply. Bar Tread. Tyre, £25/-/-; Tube, £2/10/-.
900 x2O 12-ply Recaps ...... £2l/0/0 ea. Tube 40/- ea.
825 x2O 10-ply Recaps ...... £l7/0/0 ea. Tube 35/- ea.
750 x2O 1 0-ply Recaps ...... £l5/0/0 ea. Tube 35/- ea.
700 x2O 10-ply Recaps ...... £l2/0/0 ea. Tube 30/- ea.
1050 x2O 12-ply Bar Tread S.H. £l6/10/0 ea. Tube 40/- ea.
1100 x 20 1 2-ply Recaps S.H. .. £27/0/0 ea. Tube 60/- ea.
900 x 18 10-ply Com Tread S.H. £lO/10/0 ea. Tube 40/- ea.
GYPROCK
WALL AND CEILING
BOARDS
I
' y. ’
6ft. long by 2ft. wide. PRICE 8/6 per SHEET
fa V»ZL.**ln ,ea^ e -. Unlimited Stocks Available,
a crate* of 15 or 50 sheets. Packed ready for despatch on
country orders.
■
BRAND NEW EX-ARMY HAMMOCK
Or can be used as a Stretcher Cover. Made from heavy
quality Jute, 10ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. 14 Eyelets either side.
Reinforced. 2 ropes llin. long. A first-class buy.
19/6 each. Po'sft S/0 extra.
rz
m
m
Ex-Army
DRILL JACKETS
PERFECT CONDITION
Medium Sizes Only
Price 14/6
Post 2/6 extra.
Ex-Army Two Hole
Cooker
Ideal for out-door cooking,
barbecues, etc.
SOLID STEEL
Price 10/- each.
.
am
Bandolier
Ex-Army, leather, 8
pouc h e s. 4/| |
Price, each J/ » »
TOOL BOXES
Wooden
30 x 10 x 10,
10/- each.
Steel
18 x 12 x 9,
10/- each.
BRAND NEW ARMY
MESS TINS
Inner and Onter tinned. A
camper’s necessity. Size 7
x SV* 2. Price 4/6 each.
Post 2/6 extra.
Brand New. Ex-Army
MOSQUITO NETS
to suit single bed.
Color white.
Price 35/- each.
Post 3/6 extra.
Ex-Army green, Used
condition. Perfect.
Price 32/6 each.
LU€AS SIG. LAMPS
Brand new.
Contains Morse Signalling
Key. Signal Lamp and
Glasses. Colored Keflec-
tors etc.
Price 45/- each.
SKID CHAINS
BRAND NEW
ALL SIZES
1050
20
1000
20
900
20
825
20
750
20
700
20
£B/10/
SET,
EX-ARMY
PACKS
Used bat good condition.
Complete with straps. Price;
17/6. Post 3/6, Limited offer.
Antigas Haversacks. Good
condition. 4/6 ea. Soiled,
2/6 ea. Post 2/6 ea.
nm
*£vn
Tyre Levers
Brand new.
Truck type.
Solid forged steel.
Extra strong.
Price 15/- pair.
EX-B.A.A.F.
Outer
Flying
Suits
Good but used
condition. A
1 i t tie stiff
through stor-
ing. Full zip-
pered front,
and sleeves and
legs. Fur-lined
pockets.
Ridiculous
price.
£3/10/-
Fost 2/6 extra.
Unlimited
Stocks.
WHY PAY MORE?
L
,
INNER FLYING SUITS
Full zippered front. Padded with
Kapok. All sizes. Will keep you
warm in the coldest weather.
Ideal for the country.
Price 75/- each
Post 3/6 extra.
BRAND NEW
Women's
All Wool
Cardigans
Sizes S.W., W., M
O.S. Colors/
Maroon, Eight#**
Blue, Gre e n.
Grey, Brown,
Navy Blue.
PRICE
32/6
EACH
Ba Early
Limited Stock,
Zr
■y
WOMEN’S SHOWERPROOF
Gaberdine Raincoats
BRAND NEW
ds
Tailor Made
Single breasted,
shoulder pads,
complete with belt.
Women’s size only.
Price 39/6
Post 3/6 extra.
Wire
100 ft ROLLS
BRAND NEW.
Roll lots only.
{Min, 40/-; 30in, 50/-, 36in, 60/-
OIL PAI
OIL PAINT
•-0-,
OIL
base
Oil Paint Clearance!
Colours Green, Earth or Grey,
Mid-stone, Light-stone, Cream, Choco-
late, Red Oxide.
IN 4 AND 5 GALLONS ONLY,
Manufacturers Include—
BALM, BERGER, JENSEN & NICHOLS,
SHERWIN & WILLIAMS, etc.
TAKE ADVANTAGE—IT’S A SPECIAL
I
Set Fire Brand New
Pure Bristle
PAINT BRUSHES
Set is Rubber.
Sizes 4in, 3in, 2in, JViln, lln.
Price 35/- set
Post J/6 extra.
p
m
m
fS
34
EX-ARMY BLANKETS
34/-
Post 3/6 extra.
First-grade All-Wool. Single-bcd Size. Price
-t LAt.l * f ♦ *-> •• • • «
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
Suitable for residential®, shearers’ sheds.
Diamond wire. Every bed guaranteed.
Priced at <£2/10/- each.
GOOD CONDITION.
All-steel SINGLE BEDS
Price 50/- only.
Steel, diamond spring wire.
These beds are new and never been used.
Repainted black. Standard single-bed
size.
Ex-Army
STRETCHERS
Reinforced Steel Joints. Jnte Top-
Corapletely folding.
Price 37/6 each.
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy-duty'fibre mattresses with
brand new Desouth Mattress Cover to
suit. Single-bed size only.
Price the two
39/6
Horse Hair Ex-R.A.N. Camp
Mattress
2ft x 6ft Jin.
First-class condition.
Price 30/- each.
Solid Steel Wheels, Ex-Army
Complete with bearings.
Size lOin x Jin x l%in bearing bore.
Price 50/- per pair.
WHEELS
Rubber Tyred Bogie Wheel. OS Bren
Gun Carrier. Height 20in, width JViin.
Rubber 2in thick. Complete with Roller
.Bearings. Price complete, £9 per pair.
ARMY JACK KNIFE
NEVER USED
Containing Screw Driver, Tin Opener,
ißlade, Pig Slabber. 5/6. Post 1/6 extra.
LEATHER STRAPS
In perfect condition.
Size JO x %.
Complete with brass buckles.
Price 15/- dozen.
Post 2/6 extra.
CORRUGATED FIBRO ROOFING
Asbestos Corrugated Roofing. Sizes Kl
x 3ft Gin. Second grade, slightly dam-
aged, 12/6 sheet. First grade, sizes Bft
x 3ft Gin. Has been used. Condition
perfect and the price is £1 per sheet.
This is the big corrugation.
Stocks are unlimited, and it can be In-
spected at our large storeroom, 171-178
Castlereagh Street, Redfern.
BRAND NEW FORD
CYLINDER HEADS
24 stud holes, cast irons. FORD.
Price £l2/10/- each.
including Sales Tax.
Electrodes
Citrocord Brand.
6/9
Per 150 ft.
In packages or boxes. 6 and 10
gang* gewral purpose rod.
EX-ARMY
ADZE
HEADS
Price
ea.
EX-ARMY SLOUCH HAT
Used
Good
Renovated.
25/-
Post V 6
9
■
Ex-Army Pullovers
All sizes.
Good condition.
Price 25/- each.
Post 2/6 extra.
BRAND NEW.
Ex-American
Army Boots
Suede, Leather, Bobber and
Leather soles. Sizes 11, 12, 13, 15.
Post 3/6 extra.
Price 40/- pair.
PLEASE WRITE NAME AND ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
NO C.OJD. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL NO C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding please add Freight
KING’S
LEATHER COODS-TYRES WmsM GENERAL MERCHANTS
122-124 Devonshire St. Sydney
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
Phones: FA 7691—MX 3954. After hours only; MX 1269
fds
ANVILS
1 cwi, new .... £8
1| cwt., used . . . £lO
PORTABLE HAND FORGES
Brand new. In manufacturer’s case.
Complete legs, trays, etc.
£9/15/-


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers; Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road. Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND : Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire pa S e I, a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
ftepared monthly by MOFFAT-VTOXEE LIMITED
September
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
AGAIN THIS YEAR THE BIG QUESTION
WILL BE: “Is my property protected against
FIRE?"
It’s easy to start a bushfire—-but it’s
another thing putting it out. Everyone
knows—or do they?—that a careless
flick of a cigarette or match out of a
car window or a campfire left
smouldering, can become a roaring,
raging inferno, like the photo, on the
right.
That’s why there are 1500 odd Bush- " „ , ~
fire Brigades in the State of New South Wales alone, with 40,000 volunteers ready at a moment s
notice to race to the scene of a fire, risking—and sometimes losing——their lives in controlling roes.
Between the 1949 and 1953 seasons N.S.W. State Government, insurance companies and local
councils had contributed £370,000 for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment.
But the fires still rage, doing damage that not only costs thousands of pounds, but sometimes takes
years to repair. And it is the opinion of experts that more than half our bushfires are man-made.
This could have been your property going up in smoke . . . The roaring blaze, which last year burned out acres
of forest near Sydney, illuminates the night sky with its searing flames.
BUSHFIRE COMMITTEE URGES LAYING OF
FIRE-BREAKS BEFORE SEASON BEGINS
The commencement of the bushfire season
varies from place to place, but for all areas
the same advice offered by the N.S.W. Bush-
fire Committee holds good: the time to get fire-
breaks laid is well before the summer breaks.
“M.V.” [?]
Duplex "V3”
FIREMASTER
Now is the time to take stock of firefighting
equipment, and to do all the other jobs neces-
sary to safeguard your property against the
demon fire. Give your local Bushfire Brigade
all the help you can —if possible, take an active
part yourself. This way, you can help make
sure your property is not going to be added to
the list of losses the newspapers will publish
when they review the results of the 1954-35
season’s fires.
Get rid of undergrowth and brush around and
under buildings, fences, etc., especially if you’re
near a railway line. Gutterings should be
cleared of leaves, too. If you use a tractor,
make sure all manifold and exhaust systems are
in good order. A fire extinguisher and a beater
should be carried when a tractor is in operation.
The final thing to do is to check your fire-fight-
ing equipment. It should be ready for instant
use, as the Bushfire Brigade may take time to
get to you—if they’re not out fighting another
blaze. They may be too late, unless you have
the equipment to beat the fire, or pin it down
till help arrives.
This Equipment Is An Insurance Policy
Having proper fire-fighting equipment always
available is a form of insurance ... a reason-
able outlay NOW could save a lot of money in
the long run. The sort of equipment you need
for fire-fighting includes: axes, buckets, beaters,
hand and knapsack pumps, a good flame-
thrower, mattocks and brush-hooks, tanks,
drums and watercarts.
Most of this equipment is always kept on any
property. But it should be kept in one place-—
so that it can be ready for use at a moment’s
notice.
Modern Fire-fighting Equipment
A wide range of fire-fighting equipment suit-
able for small and large properties and for
Bushfire Brigades is now available.
When one considers that one fire beaten before
it does any damage may save you more than
the cost of a Fire-fighting Plant, the latter
cannot but be a wise investment.
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. manufactures a range of
Fire-fighting Plants designed to meet the needs
of everyone. The famous M. V. FIRE-
FIGHTER” saw service with the Fighting Forces
during the last war. It proved itself then, and
is now recommended by the Forestry Bureau
at Canberra, as well as being used by many
Councils, Bushfire Brigades and leading Aus-
tralian Pastoralists.
The “M.V.” Senior Firefighter incorporates as
standard equipment a 200 gallon tank, 1 ?in.
centrifugal pump, and M.V. 2i H.P. hopper-
cooled Petrol Engine. Two 50 feet long light
hoses are provided, and a pressure adjustable
from 1 5 Olbs. up to 2501bs. can be maintained.
Lever-operated hose nozzles, suction fittings
and strainer are also supplied.
Moffat-Virtue also manufactures the popular
portable “FIREMASTER.” Two models of
this plant are available. Suitable for the
property owner, the “FIREMASTER Plants
are hard-hitting, portable and efficient units
which give you cheap insurance against fires.
“M.V.” Rota-Duplex
MK 20 FIREMASTER
Ideal for getting right at the topi' of blazing
trees, smashing out grassfires and protecting
your homestead and farm buildings.
The two models of the “Firemaster” fire-fight-
ing plants are illustrated on this page. The
“M.V.” Rota-Duplex MK 20 Firemaster is a
lightweight plant powered by a 2 H.P. air-
cooled engine. It gives a 1 OOlbs. per square
inch nozzle pressure, with a 60 feet throw.
The larger *‘V3” Firemaster also incorporates
the “M.V.’’ Rota-Duplex Fire-Pump, but the
famous “M.V.’’ 2| h.p. Petrol Engine is its
power-plant.
This unit can quite easily be lifted from truck
or cart by two men and carried right to the
scene of the blaze.
In action, these Moffat-Virtue Fire-fighting
Plants have proved their worth and are strongly
recommended to all who wish to help prevent
a recurrence of the disastrous series of fires
which in 1951-52 cost an estimated £6 million.
Further particulars and information about these
units may be obtained from the State Dis"
tributors listed at the foot of this page.
Mounted on a truck
like this, the “M.V.” Fire-
fighter is doing sterling
service with many Bush
Fire Brigades. In the
photo the tank is being
refilled through the refill-
hose running to a dam in
the right foreground.
