

HOUSE
F
SEP P E
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3905
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Wednesday, December 15, 1954
Price 9d.
R * tered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ONE of London’s great churches stands
in Brompton Road, near the Vic-
toria and Albert Museum in South
Kensington. Its full title is The Oratory
of St. Philip Neri, but is familiarly
known as Brompton Oratory. Before
Westminster Cathedral was built, this was,
in effect, the Roman Catholic Cathedral
in London.
The Oratory is served by secular
priests of the Institute of the Oratory
which was founded by St. Philip Neri m
the 16th century at Rome. Cardinal
Newman introduced the Institute into
England in 1847 and two years later a
temporary church was built on the exist-
ing site which could accommodate 1200
persons. This was replaced in 1884 by
the present church, an example of the
Italian Renaissance style, designed by
H. Gribble. The magnificent facade and
dome were added in 1897.
A remarkable feature of the interior
is the width of the nave (51 feet), which
is the widest in England, with the excep-
tions only of York Minster and West-
minster Cathedral.
The Italian influence in decoration is
also seen in the interior, where many
features, such as the altarpieces, aie
replicas of Italian works. Between the
Corinthian marble pilasters are statues
of the Twelve Apostles by Mazzotti
(late 17th century), which stood for two
hundred years in the Tuscan cathedral o
Siena before they were brought to
London. Here, too, can be seen a copy
of Raphael’s painting of St. Cecilia,
which hangs in the Bologna Art Galleiy.
The Nine Chapels in the Oratory are
richly decorated with carvings and
mosaics, coloured marbles and gold; the
17th-century Lady Chapel came from a
church in Brescia. Another outstanding
feature is the choir where the walnut
stalls are inlaid with ivory.
In the grounds of Brompton Oratory
Cardinal Newman, one of the founders
of this building, is commemorated by a
statue under a pillared canopy sur-
mounted by the Madonna.
LONDON’S BROMPTON ORATORY IS A LITTLE ITALY


Learn T i,
Mance Journalise
atHOME
* have the urge t 0 write the
vrn&ptS expre ? s ? our thoughts on paper,
s . nan train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches. Radio
r! H S ’Z ars ’ Verse, etc., that will SELL,
letters*— 86 extracts from Stott-Students
“ I Sfe? ?Pn (£S. f i r i“ my ' vritin « total almost
the past six months my jmcep-
ai ? c f s have returned me over £2OO.
1,1 3L0
r!!Sn° U tr accepted my article ‘Modern
r e H nn tin g- The amount I shall
paytor iVcmS'" " k "‘ B Wlll almost
V2I?’ Mw
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereazh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell’
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2354) AGE
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Lei
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
A TAPESTRY OF PIONEERS
Mrs. Mamie Bassett's The Hentys
(Oxford University Press), impressive in
its bulk, warm, natural and fluent in its
style, fascinating in its picture of the
Henty family’s pioneering ventures at the
Swan in Westralia, at Launceston in Van
Diemen’s Land and at Portland Bay
Victoria, is an exceptionally fine contri
bution to the stream of histories anc
documentaries” which, since the war
have become increasingly popular in thi
country and which, no doubt, indicat
some consolidation of the national spirii
Like the Letters of Rachel Henning
Lady Barker’s station-books from New
Zealand, Miss Nesta Griffiths’s anecdote
of great country-houses in N. S. Wales and
others of the same kind, The Henty
serves the special purpose of rehabilitat
mg the squattocracy—a class which, while
sitting very comfortably on the sheep’
back in its daily life, has been sadly
neglected in our literature ever since
Lawson and lom Collins set up the
democratic tradition of the ’Nineties
Well, Barcoo Rot, I did find a white spo
on a squatter once,” says Lawson’s
Mitchell handsomely.
Rich families do exist; often they live
with grace ; often, as well as making more
money, they serve their country nobly
Obviously they must be chronicled; anc
it is as well to be reminded, as one is by
The Hentys, that our early history was
by no means all lashings and bashings
and convicts. These were well-to-do
English farmers, gentlefolk, who came
out to Australia in the 1830’s with the
one simple and laudable purpose of doing
well for themselves: which eventually
they did—opening up new country and
occupying no fewer than six stations in-
land from Portland Bay, as well as estab-
lishing whaling or merchandising interests
wherever they went.
Apart from the high place it must take
in the annals of the squattocracy, The
Hentys is also, of course, of great topical
interest at the moment when so fnany
immigrants are pouring into the country
to go through, however much the hard-
ships may be modified, very much the
same process of acclimatisation and
Struggle to success. In fact, to read this
nook after lately meeting an immigrant
*hip m Bombay full of curious rustic
accents and the woes and worries of a
crowded voyage, and afterwards to have
seen English immigrants shocked at the
sand around Fremantle instead of en-
chanted with the exquisite city of Perth, is
an odd experience, making a hundred
'/ears of history seem to vanish in a flash.
It was the sand around Fremantle that
horrified the Hentys, too.
A thought which must occur to any-
one making the voyage out from England
today -and it is still long enough for the
grumblings of passengers to fill the ship
from stem to stern and drive the purser
crazy is how on earth—or on the water
—did they get through a hundred years
ago when the journey lasted, instead of
lour weeks, four months? Mrs. Bassett
piovides a clear answer, describing
several immigrant voyages with a wealth
of precise detail.
Oddly enough—for one’s mind leaps to
stones of convicts battened-down and
groaning below—it seems that passengers
often had a lot more fun than they dc
today; they had much more sensible
more vital ways of filling in the time
When Thomas Henty came out in 1831
instead of racing madly past all the fish
in the ocean, he tried to catch them;
A shark astern took the bait twice got
him up to near the cabin windows, but
got off saw no more of him.
However, the day before that, so
Thomas’s diary records, “The Man
Rogers behaved ill” ; and a week or two
earlier there was “a Tremendous Storm
at dinner time... .too much for the nerves
of all of us” ; so even then the sea had its
ups and downs. Thomas’s voyage started
with a most diverting comedy of an
emigrating couch-maker who was trying
to leave his wife behind and who, just
before the ship sailed, was dragged ashore
by the indignant female.
Thomas’s son William, the last of the
Hentys to sail for Australia, came out in
1836 with Sir John Franklin, the Gover-
nor-designate of Van Diemen’s Land ; in
in spite of which distinguished company
he was troubled by cockroaches “as big
as a mouse” and by the butcher driving
his pigs round the deck at dawn every
day which, with cocks crowing, chains
clanking and the sailors scrubbing the
decks, made an uproar “that would outdo
a shipload of babies.” Lady Franklin
entertained the passengers with scientific
lectures, one of which so shocked Van
Diemen’s Land’s first archdeacon, the
Rev. William Hutchins, that he “retired
to jus cabin and would listen no more.”
Then the voyage turned to tragedy
with the death of the Franklins’ baby
son, Babet, who had been ailing for
some weeks—the doctor said he had
rheumatism.
The pioneer of this family of pion-
eers, James Henty, the eldest of
Thomas’s seven sons, came out with
two of his brothers and the family ser-
vants on the Caroline in 1829. Chartered
by the family for the voyage, the Caro-
line with its bales of fodder, its horses,
dogs, pigs, poultry, rabbits and cows (two
of which were quartered in the long-
boat), looked like “a floating haystack”;
and on it the 65 passengers diverted them-
selves with shooting at boobies or at a
bottle tied to the yardarm, with fishing
for sharks, albacore and flying-fish, with
dancing and walking the poop on moon-
light nights and, on one occasion, with
observing the rescue of the captain’s dog,
which was discovered busily paddling
half a mile astern.
But fearful seas in the neighborhood
of Cape Horn drowned or battered to
death one of the milch-cows in the long-
boat, also a cart-mare —“The rushing of
the wind, screaming of the women,
suffering of the animals, and torrents of
water poured in occasionally on deck,
made altogether a scene which beggars
description”—and the two tnonths with-
out sight of land between South America
and the infant settlement at the Swan
River, to which they were bound, con-
siderably jarred the harmony which had
once prevailed;
How did the cabin passengers pass their
time while the Caroline steadily made her
easting despite the assaults of the angry
seas?.... While the ship scudded with bare
poles before a following sea, her travellers
watched the waves for hours from the bows
above the dizzily plunging figurehead ; after
dark they played whist for love in the
cuddy, with worn packs and broken biscuits
for markers In contrast to the popular
if miserly Mackie there was Hawkins, the
inevitable passenger whom nobody likes
and everybody disregards. Stone, the solici-
tor with the black mustachoes and a ten-
dency to tell long stories, was now very
quiet ; Everard, curiously clumsy on his
feet for a sailor, told his anecdotes too
often and too often repeated his stock of
sea-songs As the voyage drew to its
end, tension grew and the captain’s civility
waned ; he made a crony of Dr. Morrah
but quarrelled with the rest, ate his meals
in his cabin, and relieved his feelings by
refusing to disclose to passengers the
longitude of the ship.
When at last they reached the Swan,
James and the captain were on such bad
terms that the captain threatened to
stave-in some of James’s casks put into
the ship’s boat; and, James wrote, “kept
his word, having stove a Keg of Gin and
a Cask of Salt and very much injured
other things if he were to get among
my men in the dark I think he would
certainly get a ducking.”
As, having had access to invaluable
letters and diaries, all of which she has
beautifully integrated to weave her “Aus-
tralian colonial tapestry” (the book’s
sub-title), Mrs. Bassett is crystal-clear in
her description of these typical immigrant
voyages, so she is clear again in her pic-
ture of their new life in Australia.
From their farm in Sussex, where they
were celebrated as breeders of Merinos,
the Hentys were tempted to emigrate by
the prospect of vast land-grants to be had
for no cost by men with the capital to
work them in the newly-formed colony
at the Swan. They had at one time thought
of joining their friend John Street (great-
grandfather of the present N. S. Wales
Chief Justice), who was doing well on the
Bathurst Plains of N. S. Wales ; but the
80,000 acres to which their capital would
entitle them in the west was far too big
a lump of land to let slip through their
fingers.
But the colonisation of the Swan—
basically intended to frustrate the sus-
pected designs of the French —had been
started on the glowing reports of Captain
Stirling of the Success and the Colonial
Botanist Charles Fraser, who, on the
strength of what Mrs. Bassett calls “a
picnic episode lasting two weeks,” had
pictured it as a paradise of fertility; and
the colonists were to find, as a sailor is
said tersely to have put it, “all of Fre-
mantle could be put through an hour-
glass in a day.”
No arrangements had been made for
the reception of the colonists, and while
the women and children stayed on the
Caroline with the irate Captain Fewson,
James slept among the red-gums rolled up
in a waterproof coat under an umbrella.
Then tents were put up ; “but our women
are not so well satisfied, not being used
to live in tents.” There were shells to
admire; Bushby, one of James’s em-
ployees, praised the wildflowers, which
“would make as handsome pot-plants as
he ever saw” ; but James soon found “the
Land here is very unpromising”; and
Captain Stirling had to report:
People came out expecting the Garden
of Eden, and some of the working classes
were astonished at finding hard work an
indispensable preliminary to meat and
drink. They said that subsistence could be
got in England upon those terms, and that
if they had known better they would have
remained there.
“For the false picture that had lured
them across the world,” Mrs. Bassett
adds, “the dismayed settlers blamed the
New South Wales botanist; if they could
have laid hands on Fraser he would have
fared ill.”
When the land in the west thus proved
unsatisfactory—and James tramped over
miles of it, exploring inland for himself ;
and took up selections and tried to change
them, and argued with the Governor
about bn rights, and took up new land
again ; flPying the whole countryside out
pretty thoroughly—the problem for the
Hentys was where.in Australia to settle
before their stock perished and their
capital melted: and it is on that problem,
the robust and energetic family’s battle to
success, that Mrs. Bassett has built her
book.
The triumph was to come years later
when the Hentys had settled at Portland
Bay and occupied their six stations, in-
cluding the famous Merino Downs on
the Wannon River near its junction with
the Glenelg, and Muntham, where
Edward Henty lived in the solid magnifi-
cence of which the family had
dreamed;
Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh, an Irishman
who in his youth lived at Muntham while
working there as a “Colonial experiencer"
•—the jackeroo of today has testified to
the unique quality of the property as he
knew and loved it when Edward had been
its master for ten or fifteen years. Never,
he says, during half a century’s travels
through Australia, from Melbourne to the
Gulf of Carpentaria, over most of Victoria,
New South Wales and Queensland, had he
come across a property of equal size to
compare in quality with the rolling downs
of Old Muntham Estate In the ’fifties
and ’sixties Muntham was still conducted
on a lavish scale: the herds of roan
Durhams, the magnificent Suffolk Punches,
the stableful of glorious saddle-horses and
handsome carriage-horses, perfectly-
matched ; the five acres of gardens, with
their natural springs and rich chocolate
soil ; the comfortable house, set against
the steep downs, and where the high-
spirited Colonial-experiencers lived in
more than comfort, cared for by the indoor
staff always kept there even though by that
time Edward and his wife spent less time
at Muntham than at Melbourne or the
Bay: managers, overseers, stockmen, shep-
herds, hut-keepers, gardeners and grooms
and their families ; the cook, map and
housemaid in the house itself —the cost
must have been enormous, nor was it offset
by the estate’s returns. . .
But it was eight years after their arrival
at the Swan before Stephen Henty, com-
ing upon the Wannon, called it “Para-
dise” and “pitched his tent by the river,
knowing that the goal had been reached” ;
and in the intervening years there was a
long, slow struggle—to find the good
land ; to get it for nothing or at the mini-
mum official price; to get permission to
settle on it when they did eventually find
it; and to hold the family fortunes to-
gether against the continual expenses of
moving from one part of the country to
another and against such threats to finan-
cial stability as the drop in wow-prices in
the ’forties when James, Chwrfes and
William Henty, with their frieno Samuel
Bryan, felt obliged to draw up a memor-
andum, “At Mother’s House, Launces
ton,” stating that “It is imperative y
necessary, to save ourselves from being
involved in Ruin, that the Expenses o;
the Establishment should be reduced
least Three thousand a Year—We hav
no other Chance for this but by keepin
the Rams from the Ewes which wouk
reduce the laborers one third.”
This is the structure of the story Mrs
Bassett tells —and a fine, slow drama
makes, like the “saga” novel at its bes
in its steadfast though never unharassec
progress to family success —but as in th
voyages from England (James made
return visit from Van Diemen’s Land i
1834 and, on the way back from
Plymouth, disapproved of one Lieu
Dyball and his wife, who sat in the cabi
with the “Monthly Magazine” befor
them throughout Divine Service, whic i
James conducted) it is the wealth
vivid detail which Mrs. Bassett has pain
takingly collected and shrewdly selectee
that makes this book memorable and ou
standing amongst pioneering narrative
There is James writing home to h
father that “rum is a good article” if h
wishes to speculate and pointing out th
supreme importance, in those first hungr
days at the Swan, of kangaroo-dogs
there is the broken romance of Captai
Frederick Chidley Irwin, commandant o
the Swan detachment of the 63rd, wh
left his heart in Aberdeen and whos
love-letters were intercepted by the girl’
parents, as were hers to him; there is th
sad fate of the important family letter
which James’s mother packed with th
pickles—the jars exploded in the tropic
and the letters were indecipherable ; ther
is Charlotte Carter courageously sailin
out by herself on the Atwick to marr
James when, though she knew his feelings
she had had no express invitation
come; there is James, after thei
marriage, teaching her to make apple
pie; there is the story of Henr
Camfield, a friend who came out witlr
the Hentys, practically starving at th
Swan, living only on the salt meat h
had brought out two and a hah:
years before; there is the voyage to
Launceston when Charlotte suffered
miscarriage at sea due to a Lascar’s falling
through the roof of the cabin; there i
James’s campaigning in London for—
amongst other things ; including of course
the Hentys’ land-claims —“a Cargo of
Free Females” to be sent to Launceston
where they were impatiently awaited.
There is the impetuous father, Thomas
whose optimism his more sober sons
always had to try to restrain, and the un-
fortunate John, the only weak link in the
chain of sturdy Henty brethren, who
was a little addicted to tippling and of
whom his mother wrote in charming
apology, “From an infant he was always
thirsty and naturally rather inwardly
weak” ; there are bushrangers alarming
the ladies, and sometimes the men, too,
at Portland Bay—including Comerford
and Dignum, the two Irishmen who,
when learning that their seven English
companions proposed to murder them,
thoughtfully slew all the Englishmen.
There is trouble with the blacks and the
disproved allegation that the Hentys were
involved in a massacre; there are price-
less interviews with Sir George Gipps in
Sydney over the Hentys’ land-claims at
Portland, when Sir George disconcerted
William Henty by giving him a “stare”
and by remarking, “I wonder you didn't
take in the whole Country”; there is
Rolf Boldrewood dropping in at Portland
to report on the Hentys, “I had the plea-
sure of knowing these gentlemen; and
the longer I live the stronger becomes my
conviction that the genuine Englishman,
compacted as he is of diverse races, hold-
ing the strong points of each, is the best
‘all-round’ man the earth affords”. . .
From hundreds of such incidents and
anecdotes, all convincingly documented
by the letters and diaries, and from the
warm humanity with which Mrs. Bassett
portrays the Hentys and their wives, rela
tives and friends (Camfields, Bryans
Streets and Windeyers are some of th<
interlocking families) the period come
most richly to life.
The Hentys is a very long book —543
of the Oxford University Press’s solid
pages—and perhaps somewhat longer
than it should be. It is not strictly neces-
sary, in telling the Henty story, to go
back, for instance, to Captain Fremantle s
stupendous quarrel with the master of the
o Continued on page 50)


F
DF
Why not
lay-by?
It’s a wonderful help!
Just a small deposit
(4/- in every £) se-
cures those goods that
you can’t afford at the
time, till you finalise
the balance by easy
monthly payments.
Clothing
Hospital
Our famous clothing
hospital repairs, in-
visibly mends, alters,
re-fits, re-lines both
men’s and women s
clothes. We also re-
condition leather coats
and jackets. Grd. Fir.
Visit our
Optical Centre
We consider optical
health enormously im-
portant. That's why,
on our Second Floor,
we’ve a special Opti-
cal Centre. Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C.,
F. 1.0., is the consult-
ing optometrist.
Our
Animal Clinic
This is the only clinic
of its kind offered by
a department store.
Free veterinary advice
from experts on Tues-
day and Friday from
2to 4 p.m. 4th Floor.
Da all your 1955 shopping through
TOPS.
\ * •
T.O.P.S. —our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Setvice-is the easy, modern
way to shop. In fact, for many harassed housewives, busy executives and out-of-town
tradesmen, it’s the only way to shop. T.O.P.S. brings every department (big and small) in
a RUTH fill ADVERT 15INC
nthony Horderns’
D
just as near as your own telephone, wherever you live in N.S.W. Gone are the days
when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transfened
from one department to another, with consequent delay. Gone, too, are the days when
orders from different departments arrived on different days. Now an efficient T.O.P.S.
assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your
door. And, if you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S.
shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you. T.O.P.S. helps everyone !
T.O.P.S. can help you !
FOE T.O.P.S. RING
80951 ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BOX 2712, G. P. 0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December IS, 1954
Vol. 75-No. 3905
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
* -5 _______
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
“Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW STATES STEP AHEAD
MOST Australians were wholly unaware that in
the week ended December 4 an important New
State Conference was held at Inverell (N.S.W.)
which made a substantial step forward in the
movement to free the rich north of the State from
the bondage of the Cahills, and the Gus Kellys, and
Sheahans, who now rule the area from afar and milk
it for the benefit of crowded industrial centres round
Sydney. Though the papers of what the New
Staters have named New England, after one of its
districts, and those of southern Queensland as
well, were full of the events at Inverell, these rated
only a bare and obscure paragraph or two in
Sydney journals.
The conference was of importance to every
region in Australia which has separationist aspira-
tions. There are several in which it will inevitably
be reproduced before many years are out. It is
unthinkable that North Queensland, with exports
which are bringing it in over £35,000,000 a year and
ports which rank with Newcastle and Geelong,
should long remain helot to Brisbane, to which all
the wool of that State’s north-west is dragged for
sale; this especially when the uranium- and other
metal-fields of the Mt. Isa-Gulf area are developed.
The future of many other regions is such that
they must follow suit. That they have not done so
is due not to inclination but to the air of hopeless-
ness bred in the hearts of their citizens by provisions
of the Australian Constitution. North and Central
Queensland had actually reached at the beginning
of the ’nineties the point where separation from
the original State seemed almost certain. But when
the Federal Constitution was drafted the existing
States took care to sew any area whose people
seemed likely to give trouble so firmly into the
original fabric that they would have the greatest
difficulty in escaping.
As far back as 1890 John Murtagh Macrossan
moved in the Queensland Legislative Assembly
for separation of the North, only to be countered
by Sir Samuel Griffith’s amendment providing for
the division of the State into three provinces under
a Federated scheme. The fact that Griffith was
prepared for this compromise showed that, even
then —when the North was in much the same
position as the whole had been in when it separated
from New South Wales in 1859 —the political
leaders of the time believed that division must come
in a few years.
Since that time the efforts of various parts of
the Commonwealth to get away from the shabby
politics of the cities and to create an economy
suitable to their own situations and modes of life
have all been fruitless. The promoters have been
leg-ironed by the Constitution, which makes it
clear that, however willing the Commonwealth
may be to act, and however unanimous the people
of the area concerned may be in their desire to
break off from existing States,. they are captive
unless the State Parliament under which they live
is willing to release them. And though State Gov-
ernments and parties are full of good words, not
one of them is sincerely willing to deprive its shaky
economy of the support of large blocks of primary
industry if it can find a way of stopping secession.
The last ray of hope that something might be
accomplished went temporarily out with the passing
of the Statute of Westminster. Twenty-four years
back, when impetus was given to the movement by
the existence of the Lang Government, the then
Federal Opposition-Leader, Mr. Latham, later
Chief Justice of the High Court, outlined a set of
circumstances in which he believed the Com-
monwealth Parliament would be justified in asking
the Imperial Parliament to act on the principles
enunciated at the 1930 Imperial Conference and
pass legislation overriding the Constitution Act.
But the last appeal for an Imperial Bill—over a
matter dealing with the Geneva Conventions—was
made in 1937. And an amendment to the Consti-
tution by the Imperial Parliament in any circum-
stances is no longer practical politics. Neither
under existing conditions is separation with the
consent of mother States, except under violent
pressure. Nevertheless, it is evidence of how strong
the resentment is against the kind of government
that the Cahills and the Cains and the Gairs are
giving outlying areas that New State movements
are not only still in existence but have again begun
to grow.
Last year New England, which is the testing-
ground of the New State movement, having more
people than Western Australia or Tasmania,
took a referendum in a large number of
municipalities and shires, and, despite the attempts
of the State Government to intimidate the local
councils and prevent them from co-operating, the
result provided an illuminating assay which seemed
to show that in an all-region poll separation would
win hands down.
This year, encouraged by that vote, the Ninth
Convention of the New State movement at Inverell
—at which the whole area concerned, right down
to Gosford and including Newcastle, was strongly
represented by 300 delegates from the Parlia-
mentary, municipal and business spheres—went a
stride further. In the debate on a motion for the
establishment of a Constituent Assembly the only
differences were not about the need for the urgent
formation of a body to take practical steps to
forward the objective but about the form it should
take. It was eventually agreed that the Conven-
tion should elect a Constituent Assembly which
will investigate the possibility of bringing a per-
manent Representative Assembly into existence on
an electoral basis along the lines proposed for the
future legislature.
This is a considerable advance in organisation
in a district which had already succeeded in having
natural regional boundaries of its proposed new
State defined by a Royal Commission, which had
obtained a 78 per cent, majority for its proposals
in a formal ballot in a large block of municipalities,
which has given practical consideration to the
future financial structure of its government, and
which has exercised a powerful influence in securing
preliminary decentralisation and has been almost
entirely instrumental in forcing the creation of the
New England University and other developments.
It will scarcely succeed as a movement, how-
ever, except by positive action; and this can be
taken only through the course now foreshadowed.
If it can secure the creation of a body provably
representative of the great majority of the people
of an area twice the size of Victoria and
holding 700,000 people, and if that body says it is
going to secede and form a new State, it is difficult
to see what New South Wales could do about it.
The cases of numerous American States—
Arkansas, Michigan, Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming,
South Dakota—have proved that in a Federation
the Constitution is usually made to be broken in
respect of new legislatures. Also that the breach is
achieved peacefully. It is likely to be the same
here within a few years if some steps are not taken
to amend the Constitution and make separation
more easily possible.
The Constitution, apart from New States, calls
for most drastic reform. A national Government
which cannot punish treason in peace-time, and
which cannot give its Royal Commissions, consist-
ing of members of the State judiciaries, power to
protect themselves against insult and open
contempt, is not a Constitution at all. It is abdut
time a practical step was taken towards redrafting
it, including those provisions which leg-iron
regional self-government.
Price-controls and Tumbrils
THERE seems to be little doubt that the ending of
price-control in Victoria will mean its end all over
the Commonwealth, There will be few mourners
at the funeral, despite the crocodile-tears now being
shed by “Labor” Ministers in some States. Price-
control has been an article of faith among “Labor”-
Socialists, yet Cain and Co. are' the third “Labor”
Government to accept its rejection by the
Legislative Council without going to the people.
Abandonment of controls in Tasmania and
Westralia has not produced any catastrophic rise
in prices. Both States have recorded small increases
in living-costs, as reflected in the quarterly figures
issued by the Commonwealth Statistician; the
principal rise has been in the rent-section, but in
Tasmania, the first State to drop controls, the
general upward trend has already ceased, and the
latest set of figures, released in October, showed a
slight fall.
In the no-confidence debate which followed
the Cain Government’s climb-down. Chief Secre-
tary Galvin said that if there were any exploitation
as a result of the decision Parliament would be
called together and an election sought. Asked why
he did not want an election now, he replied:—
We prefer to see this party in office while
price-control is not being administered rather than
representatives of the Opposition. We are not
going to fall for the three-card trick —lift price-
control, go to the electors next month, and in the
meantime leave the people to be exploited.
This reply rather naively reveals Galvin’s
view of his party’s slim chance of winning an
election at the present time. It also shows a realisa-
tion that the public is not very much concerned
over the ending of controls. Talk of calling
Parliament together if exploitation occurs is, of
course, mere eyewash. A Legislative Council
election is due in June and a general election before
the end of next year, and “Labor” is not likely to
anticipate these dates while its family squabble is
in full squeal.
The effect of the Victorian vote on other State
Governments was varied. N. S. Wales Prices
Minister Landa was cagey at first. He “could not
yet say” what effect the decision would have on
his State. “Price-control on a number of com-
modities was essential in the public interest” (Cain,
Cosgrove and Hawke apparently didn’t think so).
South Australia also preferred to think it over.
Play ford has never been an enthusiast for controls;
he refused to join the chorus of “Labor” Prices
Ministers who in 1951 wanted to pass back their
powers “temporarily” to the Commonwealth.
Queensland Prices Minister Power didn’t waver.
It was no concern of his what other States did;
Queensland would stick to controls; price-control
was functioning properly in Queensland, and the
Government intended it to continue.
Mr. Landa speedily got to work trying to
arrange a Prices Ministers’ conference for
December 17, instead of the one scheduled for
January 14, from which, it seems, the Victorian
delegate will be an absentee. There were not
sufficient takers, so he then said the N. S. Wales
Cabinet was considering the partial lifting of
controls on December 31.
Introduced as a war-time measure, price-
control has already outlasted the war by more than
nine years. The chief reason for this is that it
offered the “Labor”-Socialists a high-road to
Socialism. It was an essential part of the post-
war reconstruction plan by which the Chifley-
Dedman-Evatt Government intended to convert
Australia into a Socialist State. As the Common-
wealth had only a temporary lease of its war-time
powers, it was necessary, if the plan was to become
reality, to make them permanent by way of
referendum. Three attempts were made, during
and after the war, and when the Prices Referendum
of 1948 was defeated in every State by as decisive
a majority as had ever been recorded in a referen-
dum, Prime Minister Chifley’s reaction was to
tljirow price-control into the laps of the State
Premiers, although his emergency powers had
another six months to run and could probably
have been extended for a year or even more after
mat, provided the extension sought was merely
temporary.
The State Premiers did not exactly relish the
legacy —it is much easier to believe in price-control
if you don’t have to administer it —and Prices
Ministers soon discovered, though not all of
them would admit it, that price-control in peace-
time merely amounts to giving grudging approval
to price-increases, because, though it may be
possible to force people to sell existing stocks at an
unprofitable price, no amount of Government
pressure can make them continue producing goods
at a loss.
During the war it was possible to maintain a
stable price-level because all the factors determin-
ing prices—wages, manpower, capital investment,
interest-rates and raw materials—were also under
control, and, by means of a strict rationing system,
consumption was controlled also. Even so, the
structure had to be bolstered-up with subsidies, and
there was a vast blackmarket and under-the-counter
supply for those with plenty of cash and no trouble-
some conscience. For the general public there were
queues and shortages.
This has been the experience down the ages
of every Government that has tried to enforce price-
control for more than a limited period—it was the
same story in Ancient China, Egypt and Babylon,
Greece and Rome. Several English rulers tried their
hands ut it during the Middle Ages, without
success, and in the early years of the United States
all prices were fixed by legal enactment. This
American experiment proved “a total failure in
achieving the end proposed by its authors, and
ultimately had not a defender,” but almost at the
same time that it was being abandoned a similar
plan was being introduced by the revolutionaries
in France, maximum prices being proclaimed for
all commodities. The result was no better, and as
Robespierre was borne in a tumbril through the
streets of Paris on the way to the guillotine the mob
jeered “There goes the dirty maximum!”
Tumbrils and guillotines are out of fashion
nowadays, but “Labor” politicians who may be
toying with the idea of fighting election-campaigns
with a plea for price-control would be well advised
to read their history-books.


HAPPY CHRISTMAS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Destroying History
The Cahill Government’s announcement
that it intends to pull down the existing
New South Wales Parliament House and
replace it with a brash new structure
is typical of “Labor” Governments’ atti-
tudes to national history and tradition.
The central building marked for
destruction is the oldest public building
in Australia. It dates to a time when
the continent held no more than 12,000
people. It was Governor Macquarie’s
and the continent’s first substantial
building—substantial enough to survive
for another 200 or 300 years. It was
originally meant to be the barrack for
the senior surgeon of the great hospital
which Macquarie had erected on the
Eastern Hill of Sydney. Begun at th 4
end of 1810 and occupied in 1814, it has
since looked down on the whole history
of Australia, and the continent’s great
have nearly all passed through’ its portals.
The Judge Advocate had his office
there for a tirqe. It was therefore the
central fountain of criminal justice under
the charter of 1814. The meeting to found
the Bank of New South Wales was held
within its walls one day in November,
1816, It was therefore the home of incor-
porated companies in Australia, The
members of the first Executive Council
passed through its doors to their chamber.
About it in his youth W. C. Wentworth
played, and from it he went abroad nearly
50 years later, farewelled by the thunder-
ous applause of citizens, to carry the
Constitution Bill to Westminster.
All the Fathers of Federation made
their voices heard there—as did all the
founders of responsible government in
New South Wales before them; Went-
worth, Parkes, Dailey, Lowe, Darvall,
Martin, Wise, Barton, Reid, Hughes—
the great names are legion.
It is probably the only public building
* in the world in any continent which dates
back to withm the first generation of that
continent’s civilised history. Only a
Cahill would think of destroying it.
In one way, perhaps, the Government’s
members are not to blame. They have
been ill-taught in such matters. And there
has never been here, as there is in Eng-
land, a fixed policy and legislation to
guard historic monuments. It is about
time there was one, and that it was Com-
monwealth-wide, Otherwise the half-
dozen irreplaceable structures which stand
as the landmarks of Australia’s architec-
tural beginnings will be torn down by
vandals eager to leave behind them foun-
dation-stones of their own.
On Borrowed Time
Developments in the A.L.P. prove the
wisdom and foresight of Mr. Menzies
m leaving Dr. Evatt to be torn to pieces
by his own pack. It would have been
easy for the Government to have dealt
with him in a way that would have
reduced him to his proper stature, but
nothing is more savage than civil war or
more effective for the outside adversary’s
purposes.
The party seems to be engaged not
only in wrecking its leadership—part of
which, in the usually noisy manifesta-
tion of Mr. Calwell, seems to have disap-
peared—but in tearing itself to ribbons
in the process.
The Victorian-branch executive has
been exorcised, but though it is officially
dead it refuses to lie down. The N. S.
Wales executive refuses even to appear
on the scaffold. It is the liveliest bunch
of political offenders ever to be dragged
up for sentence —and powerful .enough
to make the Federal executive’s arresting
police wonder whether they will not be
themselves arrested and immolated.
The exorcising of the industrial-
groups by Dr. Evatt and his hierarchy
cannot be termed much of a success. It
has been reported that they intend to go
underground, but if they do the rumble
that will be heard in the open air will
make the noises of Victoria’s famous
giant worms sound like an infant’s
whisper.
Already Mr. Laurence Short, the ex-
Communist who fights Communism in
the Federated Ironworkers, and who was
recently showing his eagerness to take it
on in Asia as well, has been closeted
long enough with Sir Garfield Barwick
to begin shouting legal defiance, Messrs,
Bourke, Keon and Santamaria are show-
ing anything but a docile spirit, and the
task of heaving them into the discard is
not so simple as it at first appeared. When
it comes to the point they will have
tremendous support, and they are said
to have weapons up their sleeves almost
as effective as the atom-bomb if they
use them skilfully.
Moreover, a dismal item for Dr. Evatt
and his followers is the news that Mr.
Beazley is home after long wanderings in
the interest of moral-rearmament. Be-
fore he vanished directly after the elec-
tions he had been disciplined by the
Doctor in respect of his curiosities and
complaints about the alleged gift of
£13,000 to “Labor” funds by the Com-
munist party as a thanks-offering for the
Doctor’s services before the High Court
in the appeal against the Communist
Party Dissolution Bill.
Mr, Beazley had apparently been
shocked by a tale he had been told by
an official of the highest position in the
Federal A.L.P., and he was demanding
an inquiry with all the power of his lungs,
and expressing moral indignation that
anybody should make such a charge
against the pure and upright and get
away with it. Dr. Evatt and his fellow-
trustees denied the imputation, but they
showed no inclination to have its authors
dragged out into the daylight and exposed
as the prevaricators they declared them
to be.
It will be surprising if Mr. Beazley
does not return to the crusade. He is a
sincere and earnest young man who has
acquired a mission in life. And if he
does raise the matter it will be very
awkward unless the party can prove to
the hilt—as it might be expected to want
to do —that it has completely clean hands.
Over the weekend the N. S. Wales
A.W.U. and other union backers of the
party and organisation were earnestly
engaged in assuring the public and their
followers that they were not threatening
to form a “new” party. They are prob-
ably discreet. Anybody who would want
another “Labor” party after viewing the
methods and dissensions of the present
one would be a glutton for trouble.
As somebody said during the discus-
sion, the present rickety concern is
merely “living on borrowed time.” The
axe and block lie 'ahead for it in its
present form as surely as if it were a
Christmas turkey. Even with Houdini
as leader it would scarcely be capable
of surviving, without a drastic purge, the
biennial conference in Tasmania in
January.
Melbourne Chaos
Melbourne traffic is all sound and fury.
The fury comes from people under neces-
sity of getting in and out of the city, by
bus, tram, train, truck, motor-car or
shank’s pony.
Each has his special suffering and sor-
row, and all agree that the adventure is
fraught with difficulty and danger and
that the traffic business is coming to a
standstill, if not going backwards.
It now takes anything up to half an
hour to get from the top of Collins-street
to the bottom—that goes for all classes
of transport —and at peak-times it takes
at least 40 minutes to get a motor-car
out of the city. Even to park one is a
major operation. Roundabouts installed
at some of the worst traffic cesspools
are the dream of the motorist but the
pedestrian’s nightmare; anyhow, they
are few and far between.
The sound part of the prevailing sound
and fury comes from the politicians and
their various henchmen charged with
authority to organise the traffic. These
vocalists have not even been able to
implement the right-hand turn, a not
very revolutionary proceeding. The law
says that the motorist can now drive
through the red (traffic) light, traffic per-
mitting, but another enactment says he
must obey the lights or a policeman,
which means he can’t drive through.
The important point, however, is that
the one-and-a-half-million city has reached
a state of crisis and that things must get
worse before they get better. Every
expert is agreed that the only solution of
the larger problem is an underground, a
sine qua non of every civilised city in the
world with above a million population.
The trams on fixed rails which monopo-
lise main streets are the worst enemies
of mobile traffic, which can’t get past
them, and an underground is obviously
tiie place for them.
The Railways Commissioners aren’t
interested in this solution; they want to
spend £50,000,000 on suburban-line im-
provement. The American construction
outfit which is completing the vast Eildon
Weir project ahead of schedule has
offered to complete the underground job
within three years, and could do it. It
merely wants to recoup itself out of
revenues, and then hand the tunnels over
as a going concern ; but Mr. Cain’s Socia-
listic principles are offended. He wants
it done by the usual Government depart-
ment at the speed Government depart-
ments do it.
They have been over a year digging a
100 yd. tunnel under Flinders-street; it
won’t be open for use for ten years, and
by that time will have become so expen-
sive that the public won’t be able to afford
to use it. The cost of this Flinders-street
tunnel or burrow was originally to have
been £55,000, it is now reckoned in the
region of half a million. Multiply this
number by the scores of miles that will be
required for the bigger burrow and you
have something—even if it’s only a tunnel
through your pocket. •
Beer Boloney
It’s all as good as over now bar the
shouting. The date has been fixed —Feb-
ruary I—a day that will be remembered
for ever as the most glorious in all his-
tory and echo and re-echo through the
halls of infamy to the end of time. That
is to say, the pubs in N. S. Wales will
then and thereafter be staying open for
two-and-a-half . hours each weekday
evening.
On a careful estimate, if the amount of
boloney already spilt, and still. spilling,
over this epochal event were laid end to
end the whole prdblem of reaching the
moon on foot would be finally solved.
It—the boloney—has emanated from
both sides in an outburst of pure creative
effort which, on the one hand, should be
an example and an encouragement to
poets and especially to fiction-writers, and,
on the other, should correct the unfortu-
nate impression which the late James
Agate took with him to the Styx, that
this is a country of whole cricketers and
halfwits.
What it all comes down to is that from
February 1 N. S. Wales will have drink-
ing-hours resembling those in Queens-
land, Western Australia, Tasmania and
other more-or-less civilised parts; in
fact, corresponding with those a select
minority of the citizens of N. S. Wales
itself—the ones in the clubs and the ones
in the know —have regularly enjoyed all
along. That the underprivileged not in
those select categories should now be
legally entitled to have a beer if they feel
like one after the birds —or some of them
—have gone to bed seems a fair enough
compromise between totally prohibiting
the consumption of beer or making it
compulsory.
Even so, the notion of some, and night-
mare of others, that husbands and wives
will presently be seen amicably soaking
their suds together in spacious lounges
or in the open-air of fern-hung beer-
gardens under fairy-lights and a marital
moon is probably destined to join the
ebbing backwash of boloney. Unless past
observation and experience is to be all
eclipsed, the Australian male will pro-
bably go on preferring to drink with the
Australian ditto; and as for the Austra-
lian female, a count of her vote in the
late referendum would probably be very
enlightening. Very enlightening indeed.
Other typical items in the flood of
boloney are the reasons given out for
fixing on the mystical date of February
1. The police, it is said, need the time to
reorganise themselves; and Bung needs
the time to make preparations for the
new conditions. As to- the police, the
number of them at present coping, how-
ever faintly, with after-hours imbibing,
sly-grogging and the doings in night-
clubs that have stand-over thugs as fea-
tures of their establishments should be
quite able to cope with anything that
may happen in the way of legalised
enthusiasm. And if Bung is making any
preparations other than perhaps toughen-
ing-up the muscles of his right arm at
the nearest gym. he is keeping it a top-
secret.
Doubtless there is some good reason
for February 1. A theory which seems
feasible is that Mr. Cahill personally con-
sulted the long-range prognostications in
the astrology section of his favorite even-
ing- paper. Another, which may seem
even more feasible, was hinted at by a
wild-looking character who staggered
into The Bulletin office claiming to be
the most inexpert backyard brewer in
Australia. He said that the brewing of
a certain amount of beer takes a certain
length of time.
Hafoyama Takes Over
The retirement from office of Premier
Yoshida marks the beginning of a new
political era which will test how far
Japan is prepared to continue to work
with the West.
The old Premier did a fine job in
co-operation, but it did not please all
Japanese, particularly the politicians.
While the old man was in Europe during
the past few months his chief Conserva-
tive opponents stepped in, formed a new
party with 35 of his Liberals, and left
him without a majority.
The result has been the elevation of
Ichiro Hatoyama to the Prime Minister-
ship in a “caretaker” Government due to
hold office till the elections next March.
Like his predecessor, he is old —71 —but
no Japanese is considered really tried and
trusty before three score years and ten.
Some Japanese attribute the war to the
restless immaturity of leaders of 50 or so.
His moves for economy and the integrity
of the Civil Service have been prompt.
Hatoyama was the natural leader of
the Liberals, Even if he had missed the
Prime Ministership, he would still have
been the determining factor behind the
scenes. He would have held the office
in 1946, but General Mac Arthur vetoed
him as being too nationalistic in his views.
It remains to be seen whether this has
left its scar on his attitude toward West-
ern nations. He has always represented
himself as pro-American. But he has also
made it clear that he is in favor of
friendly relationships with China and
Russia, and some believe his foreign
policy will be summed-up in the cry:
“What offers? —and may the Devil take
the hindmost! ”
Given full diplomatic relationships with
Japan, the Russians and Chinese will lose
no opportunities of using the new foot-
hold. The red-brick buildings of the old
Government offices in Tokyo will hum
with bargaining, intrigue and bribery if
the mainland Asiatics can manage it. It
is a game at which the West is not adept.
The Russians are already working
hard, returning prisoners-of-war who
have been illegally held for years, and
who are now being graciously handed
back with the intimation that they are
war-criminals who have had their lessons.
It would seem from various pieces of
news finding their way out of the coun-
try that the wily intriguers of the main-
land had not been without their part in
achieving the change,
Australia, in common with other
Western nations, will need to tread warily
and speak in reasonable tones if we do
not wish to add Japan to the hostile
part of Asia —something which those
opposed to the reception of baseball-
teams and to other Japanese manifesta-
tions of friendliness would do well to
remember.
The Road Tangle
In the general mad rush by the States to
slap some sort of control and taxation
on inter-State road-transport— to cir-
cumvent or nullify Section 92 of the Con-
stitution by hook or by crook —it is extra-
ordinary that South Australia, of ail
quarters, should want to impose dual-
registration on inter-State vehicles.
Not only is it doubtful whether this
design will stand up to a challenge in
the High Court, not only is it a very
bad precedent which, if established, could
lead to any motor-vehicle making border
crossings having to register in two or
three States, but South Australia owes
more to road-transport than does any
other State.
Its post-war industrial development
and output became rapidly too much for
railways and ships—the one suffering
from fixed-rail and break-of-gauge con-
gestion, the other from wharf slow-downs
—and the piles of goods stacked in
Adelaide factories would have become
mountains without the assistance of long-
distance road-hauliers, •
No State seems to have taken any
notice of Senator McLeay’s statement
that road-transport is paying more in
taxation than is any other form of trans-
port, Nor have the States learned the
plain truth of the Privy Council’s ruling
—that the time for penalising private
transport in favor of Government trans-
port is past, that freely-flowing transport
is one of our urgent national needs, and
that States should confine themselves to
reasonable control of traffic and mainten-
ance of roads and safety installations.
Private transport does hot object to fair
road-taxes for that purpose; dual-
registration cannot be called fair.
Unionism Run Mad
“M.F.D.”: Two instances of unionism
run mad were exposed in the Federal
Arbitration Court in Sydney when mem-
bers of the A.E.U. successfully appealed
against their trial, conviction and punish-
ment by district committees of the union
for alleged breaches of rules.
The first case concerned a unionist
named Ronald Charles Speir, who was
in charge of a job at the North Sydney
(i Continued on next page )


bus-depot and picked up the tools laid
down by an injured workman, to complete
the job. For this “heinous” offence he
was fined 10s. by the Sydney district
committee of the union. Speir naturally
rebelled against such treatment, resigned
from the union and sought justice, and
the court set aside the fine, saying it
felt bound to exercise its discretionary
power to rectify an injustice.
In the second case an employee of the
N.S.W. railway-workshops at Cardiff,
Russell William Jones, was fined £3 and
expelled from the union for accepting a
bonus-payment from his employers after
his district committee had decided
against such acceptance. Jones’s fellow-
unionists then refused to work with him,
and he was transferred temporarily to
another department of the works. Finally,
under pressure, he agreed to refund the
bonus, but still maintained that his
original attitude was correct. An appeal
against his expulsion and fine was rejected
by the committee, and Jones then sought
justice in the Arbitration Court, which
decided unanimously that the A.E.U.
had no power to forbid its members to
accept bonus-payments.
The lot of the individual who decides
to be guided by natural and decent in-
stincts, rather than by mob decisions
based on prejudice, is particularly hard
today; and unionists generally should
thank their lucky stars there is an Arbi-
tration Court to which they can appeal
when union dictation goes beyond all
reasonable limits. Any man, even a fore-
man, who refused to complete a job in
the circumstances mentioned in the first
case, simply because he felt it might be
against union rules, would forfeit his self-
respect ; and workers generally should
unite in seeking protection against a union
rule which seeks to forbid them to accept
bonus-payments freely offered by
employers and which they conscientiously
believe they have earned. Power to
compel employers to pay, and workers
to accept, certain minimum salaries and
wages js one thing; but the attempt to
crucify a worker for accepting any
amount above the minimum, whether it
be in the form of a wage-increase or
bonus, revolts all decent instincts. The
Arbitration Court has not yet conceded
this “right” to any union, and it is to be
hoped it never will.
POLITICAL POINTS
N. S. Wales is to have a new Parlia-
ment House. What it really needs is a
new Parliament.
• •
Scrawled on the wall at Sydney Central
market, it doesn’t look like a new notice
—more like an old one kept lovingly
refurbished: “Put Menzies back in the
pound,”
• •
In the general hot-air about the Privy
Council decision freeing inter-State road-
transport from penal taxation it seems to
have been overlooked that the injustice of
taxing intra-State road-transport to bolster
State railways is to continue.
• •
Carried away with indignation about
the paint- and furniture-trade allegedly
having price-agreements, N.S.W. Prices
Minister Landa let himself go: “They
are exercising a price-control which is
even worse than the Government’s!”
* •
It is not surprising that newspaper
readers are finding it difficult to decide
which “Labor” factions are the rebels
and which the rebelled-against. The
Evatt-controlled Federal executive is
issuing orders to the group-controlled
Victorian and N. S. Wales State execu-
tives, which it obviously regards as rebels,
and at the same time big unions in both
States are defying their local executives.
Added to this it is almost certain that
many of the bodies at present supporting
Evatt dislike him only slightly less than
they hate the groupers.
■* • •
Reported from America that the new
60,000-ton aircraft-carrier Forrestal is so
broad in the beam that the Queen Mary
and the Queen Elizabeth could be placed
side by side on her flight-deck. It is
understood, however, that there is no
intention of carrying out this manoeuvre
as it would rather restrict the usefulness
of all three vessels.
• •
' Cahill’s Liquor Bill was passed on
Thursday shortly before the N. S. Wales
Parliament adjourned for Christmas, but
it will not come into force until early
in February. With the Government a
trifle more willing than usual to listen
to reason, two amendments suggested by
Opposition-leader Robson were incorpor-
ated. One gave the Licensing Court dis-
cretion to grant a licence to clubs in
country districts with less than the statu-
tory number of members (100), when
circumstances warranted it. The other
empowered the court to inquire the
identity of the real objector against an
application for a club-licence and where
the objector was found to be a hotel-
owner or a brewery to award costs
against the objector. _
Amendments not accepted sought the
abolition of the 6.30 to 7.30 p.m. break
and a provision for single-bottle licences.
Another “reform” that was not
adopted was that suggested by Country-
party member Jordan, who would like
to see ail barmaids compelled to wear
black dresses and to be subject to a
minimum age of 60. His idea is that the
change would mean that men would not
stay so long in bars. The honorable
member is the best judge of his own
reaction to black frocks and sexagenarian
Hebes, but in some George-street hotels
there are plenty of regulars who drink
right through the “six-o’clock swill”
without even seeing the barmaid.
• •
No one should be able to plead ignor-
ance of the name of Burma’s Prime
Minister. It’s U Nu.
• •
Cain’s Government was again defeated
in the Legislative Council last week, with
the result that controls on building
materials will cease on December 31.
As on the price-control bill, the Hollway
Libs voted with the Opposition. Cain’s
comment: “Bill not vital.”
Garside, one of the two Hollway men,
later said that he and MacLeod voted
to defeat the bill “because we want the
same spirit of freedom from controls.
The aim of our party is to rid the State
progressively of controls.” However,
when Opposition-leader Warner next day
introduced a bill to lighten—not remove
—some of the landlord-and-tenant con-
trols, the two rebels voted with the
Government to reject the bill at the first
reading. They again sided with the
Government to secure “Supply” for six
months instead of four.
• •
A round half-dozen authorities have
been having a smack at repairing Oxford-
street, Bondi Junction, a busy inner-
suburban Sydney shopping-centre. The
stretch is a little over a furlong in length,
they’ve been at it eight months, and
there’s some hope of its being finished by
Easter. Except for trams, virtually all
traffic has been diverted down side-streets
during the period, and business people
are frothing at the mouth about it. This,
within a couple of miles of the seat of a
Government which is airily talking about
making the main-roads fit to carry long-
distance transport.
• •
N. S. Wales Transport Minister
Wetherell told inquirers about the Circu-
"ANOTHER WICKED CONSPIRACY?"
lar Quay railway that “the rate of pro-
gress is very satisfactory.... the work is
in front of schedule.” This satisfied some,
but one citizen wrote to the “S. M.
Herald” pointing out that in the tunnel-
arch at the eastern end of the Quay,
through which the trains are one day
intended to emerge from beneath Mac-
quarie-street, is inscribed the date, 1918.
• •
Sydney’s “Labor” Lord Mayor threw
a party at the Town Hall for the Labor
boys,” one of whom described it as “slap-
up.” So it was—lobsters, poultry, oysters,
booze. Asked who paid for it the Lord
Mayor said, “I’m paying for it out of
my own pocket.” Pressed on this, he
added, “The cost will come out of the
Lord Mayoral allowance, which is the
same thing.” Is it, by gosh!
• •
Wonder which thimble “Doc” will be
under in February?
• •
“Despite special precautions,” the
Tasmanian Parliamentary Librarian has
had to report that eight books disap-
peared from his shelves during the year.
Significantly, with an election looming
up, two of these were How to Win
Friends and Influence People and Get
What You Want.
A few years ago a commission was
sent abroad to study housing in tropical
countries, including Brazil, with a view
to giving the Northern Territory the
benefit of the knowledge gained. This
fact is recalled by the news that a storm
recently demolished all the huts built at
the Hooker’s Creek native settlement
(N.T.), while abo. humpies near by were
undamaged. Perhaps the commission
should have stayed at home and studied
native architecture.
• •
A feature of the “Labor” feud is the
eagerness of wordy warriors on both
sides to proclaim that they were fighting
Communism before some of their
opponents were in long pants. Another
feature is that some warriors on both
sides were spouting Communism before
some of their opponents were fighting it.
• •
Road-transport authorities are urging
that the problems posed by the Privy
Council decision should be solved by
co-opting selected and experienced
leaders in transport, commerce and
industry. President of the Road Trans-
port Federation, D. C. Pittman, making
this proposal, said these people would
be able to work out a scheme of trans-
port co-ordination on a national level,
in collaboration with Federal and State
transport authorities. It’s a good sugges-
tion, except that the co-optees would be
interested in developing road-transport,
the Government authorities in strangling
it.
• •
Kim Beazley, home in Fremantle from
another Moral Rearmament conference,
was greeted by reporters seeking his
views on the Big Family Fight. He
“hadn’t seen any newspapers,” so was
unable to comment. The respite is only
temporary; his colleagues will soon see
that he is fully posted with all that has
been going on, including Bourke’s state-
ment that he was the source of the report
about the Communist contribution of
£13,000 to A.L.P. funds.
From the party viewpoint there are
two troublesome things about Beazley. He
has a conscience and he can’t be accused
of being Catholic Action.
• •
Senator McLeay told the Australian
Agricultural Council that the Common-
wealth is “exploring every avenue to find
new and wider markets for primary pro-
ducts.” No doubt about that. A long,
serious conference was held in London
between State and Federal marketing
officials; it concluded with a world-shak-
ing plan to brand all Australian canned
foods with a “Disney-like kangaroo, a
warm, lovable creature,”
• •
After having had their houses flooded
for the third time this year, the house-
wives of Elwood, a low-lying suburb of
Melbourne dominated by a canal which
has been slopping over for the last 25
years, invaded the precincts of the talk-
ing-shop in Spring-street with a monster
petition and later heard Cain promise
to rush to their rescue. The Premier an-
nounced that the Government would set
aside £150,000 for flood-protection work,
half of it to be spent next year ; the Board
of Works will weigh-in with an additional
£350,000, the work; to be completed
within five years. The women gave three
hearty cheers and went home to study
textbooks on how to resuscitate the
apparently drowned.
• •
First- and second-prizes awarded,
accepted and withdrawn:
Mr. Cain (to Mr. Bloomfield): You are the
most pompous humbug that has ever sat
in this House.
(Remark withdrawn by order of the
Speaker^
Mr. Bloomfield (to Mr. Cain): And you
are the second most pompous humbug
in this House.
(Also withdrawn by order of the Speaker.)
• •
“Stromlo”: Myxo.’s war on the bunny
has had much to do with the record
numbers of Australian livestock. At the
end of March we had almost 127 mil-
lion sheep (up 3.8 million for the year),
4,826,000 dairy-cattle (up 80,000, but a
little below the record), and 10.8 million
beef-cattle (up 250,000, and an easy
record). Breeds of sheep in 1953 (latest
figures available) show 73.7 per cent.
Merinos, 9.1 of other pure breeds, 5.8
of Merino-comebacks and 11.4 of cross-
breds. Merino percentage has risen from
its 70 per cent, in 1947, but is still below
its 78.8 per cent, in 1939.
• •
Cahill’s Transport Minister has a bill
to “license inter-State road-hauliers and
impose charges for the use of roads and
for administration.” One of the things
to watch in future will be the sums
allotted to “administration.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'VE can buy yoursel’, for your sma’
1 dochter, a wee Scots dolly, wi’ a bit
o’ the Mac Hoots tartan wrapped roun’ it,
for seven shillings and saxpence. in
Edinboro this verra day. I ken it well,
for, wae’s me, I had to dae it. And the
same wee bit o’ a doll sells in Sydney
for Christmas for nae less than thirrty-
thrree shillings! By the banes o’ my
great-great-grandfather, hae we a’ gone
daft?—“MacHoots.”
❖ *X* *X* 1
“Ngura”: The park our office-
windows overlook is cared for by three
gardeners; and it was months before I
noticed that one of them paid special
care to the garden around a memorial
statue. I visited this garden to see if the
cannas were getting anything I wasn’t
giving mine at home. They weren’t, but
hidden behind them a full circle of
cabbages gracing the bronze feet of a
famous statesman were doing nicely.
♦j*
“Narumee”: In a recent sea-mail, we
received one of those small, white, silver-
horseshoe-bedecked boxes which notify
us that yet another of our nieces has
gone the way of most good women. But
this box bore a strip of brown paper
with the ominous legend “Contrary to
Regulations.” Inside we found a printed
notice from the London G.P.0.:
The regulations of the country of destina-
tion require that Wedding, Birthday or
similar types of cake should be packed in
tin boxes. In the circumstances the cake
has been withdrawn.
Yet under the notice and the paper lace
was a tin box adorned with wedding-bells
—and in the box was the wedding-cake!
As there was no card or sender’s name
in the package, we can only surmise that
some unwontedly human official, ioth to
deprive us of a toothsome morsel, as well
as dreams of our future bridegroom, sup-
phed the tin box, leaving the notice as
a warning that the “regulations of the
country of destination” must not be con-
travened.
• ❖ ♦♦♦
“Balwyn”; The 23-year-old German
fiEl, * n a lone swim at twilight, who
lost her bearings and floated for 12 hours
i n Port Phillip Bay before being picked
U P b Y two youths in a motor-boat, com-
plained loudest of the extreme saltiness
the J water. “German sea,” she
informed the cops, tastes sweeter.” The
“If you need any help hold up your hand.”
immigration authorities should have
warned her to bring her own milk and.
sugar.
*l* *s• ♦!«
“Chevroford”: The motorist who
ceeds the 30-m.p.h. limit by any margin
at all is generally mulcted a fiver in Mel-
bourne. If the penalty were £1 a mile
and speedometers were marked, not in
miles, but in quids, I guarantee there’d
be a big falling-off in offenders. Almost
every driver in Melbourne exceeds the
limit by two or three miles on occasion,
and no harm is done. It is the 50-, 60-
and 90-milers who do the damage to
themselves and others. Even the most
speed-happy driver would tend to pause
if he saw his score in quids steadily
mounting to three figures.
♦j »j»
“O’Jay”; Has there been more worry,
bother, inconvenience and strife caused
by any one commodity than by the plastic
button? A headache to the dry-cleaner,
who has to cut each one off, it’s a chore
to the customer, who has to sew it back
on again. If a button misses the test
the cleaning-fluid turns it into a gluey.
sticky mass which adheres to anything in
its proximity. This goo has to be scraped
off the dozen or so garments, and then
“spotted-out.” If the goo meets-up with
a woollen it’s an hour’s job to remove it
from the tiny fibres. Should faille or
grosgrain cross its path, the material
bears the marks to the end of its existence.
As often as not the customer buys other
buttons that will stand dry-cleaning;
more expense is added to the already
high cost of clothes and their upkeep.
Even men’s raincoats are not proof
against the plastic era.
❖ ❖ v *X*
“Mullum”: I have at last discovered
where babies come from. My illusions
about storks and cabbages were suddenly
shattered when I saw, boldly painted
across a shop-window: Infantorium.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne University is
to be the first in Australia to have a
course in Bahasa Indonesia, the Indones-
ian language, though there isn’t one;
there are dozens of languages and hun-
dreds of dialects springing from them.
The language spoken commonly in Java
is Bahasa Jawa, which is divided into High
Javanese and Low Javanese. High
Javanese is largely based on Sanskrit, the
language the Hindu invaders of the 7th-
century brought to Java, along with their
temple-building. A low-caste man speaks
to a high-caste man in the high language
and vice versa, otherwise they are guilty,
of impoliteness. In High Javanese a
person “slumbers” ; in Low he merely
dosses. The only language that could be
usefully taught to Australian students
would be one of the bastard forms of
Malay, which is the lingua franca be-
tween the scores of races in the vast archi-
pelago. “Indonesia” itself is a European
and Malayan hybrid, meaning “island
India.” Even here there are scores of
dialects. The purest Malay comes from
Menangkabau, in Sumatra, the alleged
birthplace of the race, where the Malay
Adam and Eve wandered in their tropical
Eden. The Malay that Melbourne Uni-
versity will have to teach is a weird mix-
ture of Portuguese, Dutch, English,
Arabic, Persian, Malay and Javanese;
written, not in the Arabic character, but
romanised, in the queer-looking but logi-
cal Dutch spelling. It will have scarcely
any more associations for the learner than
Esperanto, and he will never meet a
person for whom it is his native lingo.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Recog”; I, too, saw Crock (B.
17/11 /’54) during World War I. It was
in December, 1918; Greek was then
showing at London Coliseum, and I was
editor of “Anzac Bulletin” (succeeding
Davies of the “Argus,” who started it)
and assistant to Captain Smart at Aus-
tralia House. We organised a Victory
Celebration for Aussie troops in the
Royal Albert Hall, with Crock on the
bill. Billy Hughes, like Crock, then at
the height of his fame, was near the
wings and Crock was getting his stage-
gear ready. Crock was in a frightful
temper, and when something went wrong
he cursed his offsider in very fluent
English. Apart from the cleverness of
his act, which was provoking London
journalists to ecstatic adjectives, I remem-
ber that his language would have won
the admiration of the hardest-boiled
among the Digger audience if they could
have heard it. Billy did ; and though his
face was impassive I thought I detected
a lurking admiration in the corner of
his eye.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Chevroford”: “We have just finished
a motor-trip from the G.P.0., Sydney,
to the G.P.0., Melbourne.... our time
was 11 hours 25 minutes.... Has any-
one done quicker?” writes “Mercury”
(Toorak) to Melbourne “Sun-Pix.” So
much for safety-first campaigns and
speed-regulations.
♦j* ♦♦♦
“P.0.M.C.”: Whatever else “Bo’s”
misogynist sartorial salesman might hold
against women, figures back his high
opinion of them as dilatory shoppers
(B. 1/12/’54). In a survey a big depart-
ment-store found that its most efficient
salesmen averaged 8.6 male customers
per hour per salesman (or seven minutes
per purchaser), while the
rate for women was four
an hour (15 minutes each).
This latter estimate seemed
so doubtful that a further
check was made, to find
that the average woman-
shopper squandered, in fact,
24 minutes of the best sales-
man’s time in most sections
—statistically only 2.12 of
her went away with a parcel
dangling from its string
each hour. Two women
occupied one counter-
jumper the full 60 minutes
buying a man’s tie and a
man’s dress-scarf.
“Spokeshave”: Mel-
bourne “Argus” thinks up
a new movement in the
public interest once a week.
Its latest is the search for
Victoria’s street with the
most children in it up to
the age of 14 in a distance
of 100yds.; the prize, a
Christmas-party held by
the journal in the street
which wins first place for
infant overpopulation.
Thistlethwaife-street, in the
grimy, slummy, frowzy
industrial suburb of South
Melbourne, is at time of
writing well in the running.
It weighed-in with a total of 89 children
in 28 homes in one 100yds. section
tucked in between eight factories and a
woodyard where no leaves rustle, no
waves tinkle their sweet music on the
sands and no birds sing, except in cages.
After the count the paper got a ring to
say that a Thistlethwaite-street mother
had just been blessed with a baby
daughter, which brought the score up
to 90. It turned out that six of the
mothers had 36 among them, and that
the tally would have been much greater
if four families with 15 youngsters had
not been moved to more salubrious
quarters by the Housing Commission the
previous week. Let’s hope all this will
be as good for the population as for the
circulation.
* ❖ ❖
“Macquarie”: The truck-driver seemed
a decent, quiet sort of cove, and as he
sank his drink at our local he asked
whether a bloke could buy a pair of
ducks for Christmas anywhere around.
The barman beckoned an old chap to
come over. Yes, the old fellow could
supply a pair—a quid each. 0.K.?
Right, he’d bring ’em tomorrow. The
buyer shouted a drink, then drove off.
He came in the next night. The seller
was waiting with the ducks: “That’s the
cheapest pair of ducks you ever bought,”
he said. Agreeing wholeheartedly, the
driver ordered the drinks and took his
brace of birds out to the truck “before
someone tramps on ’em.” It was the
cheapest pair of ducks he ever bought.
He didn’t come back to pay for ’em.
* * ❖
, “X.S.”: Melbourne City Watchhouse
probably itself enjoyed this. A man was
given 24-hours’ jail for drunk and dis-
orderly, along with 20 others, and
his term expired at six in the evening.
When his name was called a young man
stepped briskly forward and marched to
the counter to sign for his belongings.
After he had vanished into the evening
sunlight it was discovered that the drunk
and disorderly was still on the premises.
The man who had vanished was a young
salesman on remand on a charge ot
bigamy. The man he left behind him had
to face a charge of aiding and abetting.
TIPSY-TOP
“Mr. J. Whittle, A.W.U. advocate, told Mr.
T. E. Dwyer of Brisbane State Industrial Court
that hangovers were caused by fusil-oil, which
was inclined to rise to the top of the bottle.
That was why the barman upturned a bottle
of spirits before extracting the cork.”
The barman upends a new bottle
ißefore going on with his work,
For there, in the neck or the throttle,
Is where all the hangovers lurk ;
There may be some truth in this story,
For as far as I’m able to check
No hangover ever hung o’er me
Unless I was full to the neck.
There should be a new law to make them
Pour all the top-tots on the ground.
For when you let bar-tenders shake them
It passes the hangovers round;
Yet one thing has got me bamboozled:
The few times I’ve known when to stop
I was never headachy or sozzled
If I stayed on the tot at the top.
Ah, no; the D.T.s, when 1 got ’em,
Were likelier far to occur
When I drank down the flask to the
bottom —
That’s where my best hangovers were;
So it turns out a bit of a puzzle,
But maybe I’ll solve it anon
If there’s plenty of bottles to guzzle
And make more experiments on.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Sit down in front!”
AN air-hostess at Auckland told a
passenger who complained that his
ears were blocked-up that glucose was
good for that trouble, and gave him
some barley-sugar. After going her round
she returned to find the passenger reclin-
ing, eyes shut, with a piece of barley-
sugar stuck in each ear.—“R.L.”
* ❖ *
“Pomona”: English Girl Guides have
become less inhibited, judging by their
chosen ditties quoted in the press. I was
at a Guide shivoo held to entertain a
visiting English commissioner some 30
years ago. The Australians gave her a
hearty rendering; of “Waltzing Matilda,”
but she was not amused. She said the
song was “not quaite naice.” “Waltzing
Matilda” has come into her own since
then.
*l* *i* *>
“C.W.J.”; The United Nations
Trusteeship Council got a petition in
November from Somaliland complain-
ing of the theft of “three camels and a
half.” If the half stolen
were the eating-half and
the penurious Somalis re-
tained the riding-half the
theft would not be without
its advantage to the in-
tended victims. One pos-
sible explanation is that for
“half” I should read
“calf.” But the petitioners
would not worry about a
small slip of that kind.
Petitioners of the Trustee-
ship Council have a touch-
ing faith in world-govern-
ment. Another November
petitioner, from the French
Cameroons, addressing the
Secretary-General of the
United Nations, began:
“Knowing that there is one
God, the Creator, I address
my claims to yOu." No
doubt on arrival in New
York it was marked “Per-
sonal for Mr. Ham-
marskjold.”
♦♦♦ *x* *l*
“Tas.”; Asking* what
would be the smallest
church in Australia, “IB.”
(B. 1/12/’54) enters St.
Nicholas’s Church of Eng-
land, Australind (W.A.). I
submit the quaint little
Church of England at St.
Helena, near Greens-
borough (Vic.). It must be over 100
years old. Built by a British Army
officer (Major Beale) who was in
some way connected with the guard
of Napoleon Bonaparte at St. Helena,
this church would not hold anything like
27 —even when “jam-packed.” But it has
a pulpit and' all the other accessories of
aC. of E. church. In the churchyard are
buried many of the descendants of the
founder. In fact only the name Beale
appears on any of the headstones.
*** *X* ❖
“K.R.”: Alternatives of “politician”
(B. l/12/’54) shouldn’t include “states-
man.” The two words are not synony-
mous. As the American historian
Kinsolving put it, “ the politician
thinks of himself and his party; the
statesman thinks of the people and the
country.” The word politician had
of old unpleasant associations of
chicanery and intrigue; for instance,
Hotspur on the ingrate and canker d
Bolingbroke, Henry IV, in Henry e
Fourth” (Part 1), Act I, scene m.
why, look you, I am whipp’d and scourg'd
with rods, .
Nettled and stung with pismires, when I
hear
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke....
. . , . f . •
The dictionaries say the word m th s
sense is obsolete ; but for some ot our
present performers, particularly in Mate
Parliaments, it may . well be restored to
current usage,
A
“Simon” • In Perth I had a look-see
at chur * ches and? entering one, found
that a wedding was on ; so sat down
to be a spectator. 1 had a back view
of a well-dressed middle-ager who sat
alone and was not a guest, apparently.
When the wedding-party e^ e . r p citro ™
the vestry to the usual Bridal-March
“ Dunno , m’dear. I’ve sort of grown fond of the old moose.”
music, the bridegroom looked not at the
guests, but eagerly scanned the uninvited
ones till he saw the aforesaid glamorous
middle-ager. His eyes lit up, and he
blew her vigorous kisses as he passed
down the aisle with his serious-faced
bride. I murmured to a near-by male,
“Is he tight?” “Not on your life!
She;’ nodding toward the target of the
air-borne kisses, “has just become his
mother-in-law.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦+ ❖
“Nimrod”: Not used to sun in their
own countries, New Australians tend to
become worshippers in this. Not always,
though. Stefan complainediutterly about
his new job because he had to put in the
whole day in the sun. Game Sunday, and
Stefan spent most of it sun-bathing.
“But,” he protested, when we chipped
him, “I must keep mine bacK in good
order for Monday! ”
* * ❖
“Metralia”; In one of the oldest parts
of old Parramatta there’s a terrace of very
old houses. Their balconies sag for-
lornly. Their leprous grey paint is almost
gone, But proudly these houses preserve
under glass their names; “Demosthenes,
“Ceramic” and “Euripides.”
* * ❖
IT'S ON AGAIN
IT will be on again at Canungra jungle-
training school in January. The first
boots scheduled to clump up the dis-
trict’s 3000 ft. hills are those of the Ist
Battalion of the Royal Australian Regi-
ment, now stationed at Enoggera, near
Brisbane. f
Reports from Canberra are that alter
its training there the battalion will prob-
ably go on for garrison duty in Malaya,
also that Seato Pact signatories will be
invited to use the school to train their
troops into a single fighting unit.
The decision to rebuild Canungra on
its original 11 square miles was made
on the recommendation of the Cruet ot
the General Staff, Lieut.-General Sir
Sydney Rowell. It will cost £3OO',(XX),
but a'brief look at the map seems to
support the Army’s line of thought that
Australian soldiers should be trame
jungle-fighters.
The Army Minister, Mr. Jos Francis,
did not wind-up with “You’ll be sor-ry.
when he announced in Canberra that
Canungra was to be revived. That
phrase was the hail-and-farewell ot
staging-camps on the way to Canungra
of old. More than 100,000, some of them
experienced desert-fighters, heard it as
they went there to learn about jungle.
Mr. Francis did hint, though, that the
going would be rough, and that what the
100,000 had learned at Canungra was
possibly a bit out of date now.
The new Canungra’s instructors will
come from Australians straight out of
Malaya, where they have been serving
with British Army units, gathering the
latest on jungle-warfare. The topography
of the place could not change, so the
going will be no less rugged than formerly.
The C.O. will be Lieut.-Colonel George
Wharfe, a tough man who got a D.S.O. at
Tarakan and an M-C. at Salamaua.
Those of the old 100,000 may have
raised an eyebrow when they lead that
the new Canungra is to have married-
quarters for its general staff. How out
of place a woman would have looked in
the old set-up!
IN those days “S” Company at Canungra
was established as a sort of branch-
camp a few miles from the main one.
It had a memorable type of reveille.
When it sounded each morning at 6 a.m.
the troops fairly leaped from their
blankets. In their basic-training days
many of these men had learned to sleep
through mere bugle-calls, some of them
to even ignore bagpipes in the early
morning. But the plug of gelignite tossed
between the tent-lines of “S” Company
always did the trick.
When the first spontaneous roar of
oaths died down to mutterings, optimism
would come back. The bloody sergeant
hadn’t blown off his head this morning.
but who could say what tomorrow
would bring?
Arrival at Canungra from points
south was not exactly a cheerful experi-
ence, Even the wags were dumb when
they stepped from the Queensland
Government train which had' taken half
a day to bring its load 48 miles from
Brisbane. (The scream of a cook who
had just dropped a hot dixie-handle was
the sort of material the wags worked
on. “Was it heavy?” they would ask
him, and the mess-hut would rock.)
Even the wags drew in unto them-
selves as they stepped out on the plateau-
pocket of the siding. The Macpherson
ranges looked down, a particularly high
peak dominating the whole scene.
“Mount Misery,” the grim' - locals
would tell them.
There was a long march from the
siding to the main camp. Close to the
camp the platoon-sergeants would call
halt, and the new arrivals would find
themselves looking at a little graveyard;
There would be some talk of “We use
live ammunition here, so be careful,”
and then it was quick-march —for 28
days.
One learned that there were other ways
of firing a rifle than lying down in the
classic sprawl. It would go off just as
well from the hip while advancing at a
jog-trot; not terribly accurate perhaps,
but most alarming from the target-end.
This also applied to Bren-Guns, and a
legend was recounted of a huge Maori
who had applied it to the anti-tank
rifle.
Hand-grenades, it was learned, could
be placed more neatly with an under-arm
toss, but could not be heaved as far as
with the textbook, or Bill O’Reilly,
method.
THE troops swung on ropes, scrambled
over obstacles and got on swearing
terms with barbed-wire. Part of one
obstacle-course was a series of tunnels
made of boxes and hessian, pitch-dark
inside. Before the men were sent
through) instructors would toss into the
tunnels some gelignite, explaining that it
was “for the snakes.” Red-bellied black
snakes were commonest.
Without any warning (“for psycho-
logical reasons”) the troops came one
day to a river, and a tall wooden tower
standing over a deep pool. They were
carrying about 701 b. of gear apiece.
“Anyone got a Bronze Medallion?”
an instructor asked. A few stepped for-
ward.
The first man plummeted down from
the tower. He and his rifle and pack
disappeared, and when he struck bottom
he kicked off hard again as instructed.
The Bronze Medallion lurk-men fished
him out when he surfaced.
The second man stood white-faced on
the tower and told the officer that he
couldn’t swim. A nod from the officer,
a slight shove from the corporal on the
tower, and they were pulling him out
spouting water.
Up on the Macpherson Ranges there
were rain-forests, simulating the jungle
of New Guinea. They were places of
sodden logs, wet leaves and a green
filtering light. During the main stunt
which wound up the 28 days the troops
saw a lot of rain-forest, and searched
themselves religiously for its fabulous
leeches and ticks.
They boiled their individual jam-tin
billies over canned-heat. As they made
their soggy porridge out of dog-biscuits,
they discussed weighty topics there by
the lawyer-vines, like what would be
the best way to deal with Hedy Lamarr.
Each night of the stunt the instructors
set the troops in a close perimeter laced
around the outside with trip-wires and
blank-cartridge booby-traps. No talk-
ing. No smoking. The troops could
practically touch the next man in the
perimeter. They went on guard-duty
where they lay, sleeping and being
awakened in sequence by a new sort of
runner, a man who slid around on his
stomach making scarcely a sound. The
rumor each night was that the C.O. was
coming out from camp and would be
hostile with all hands if he got into the
perimeter without a scuffle.
Yet one morning there he was, sitting
up and talking to the lieutenant in the
very centre of the close perimeter, too
pleased with his performance to
admonish severely. The troops never
did find out how he made it. . ,
ly/fARRIED-QUARTERS foe the
general staff would certainly have
lowered the tone of the old Canungra.
Whatever new tricks have come to
the trade, the new men will probably
agree with the 100,000 who saw the
place—dammit, a decade ago!—that it
is the worst horror-stretch in Australia,
but that when you have traversed it you
really feel a ball of muscle.
Niloc,


PERSONAL ITEM S
Due for retirement in the New Year,
F. S. Cotton, Professor of Physiology
at Sydney University, with his stetho-
scope close to athletes, with his anti-G
suit even closer to War II R.A.A.F.
pilots, who’d call blessings upon him
whenever they whipped their fighters
over in a normally blacking-out turn.
Not to be confused with that other Aus-
tralian F. S. Cotton, who in War I
invented the Sidcot flying-suit (which also
became standard flying-equipment), Pro-
fessor Cotton first applied his physiologi-
cal theories of athletic training to him-
self—in the process winning a university
Blue for swimming and the N.S.W.
440yds. and 880yds. swimming titles in
1921 ; he also held for over 20 years all
Sydney University swimming records
from 220yds. to one mile. He has trained
many world-known Australian athletes
(swimmers, scullers, runners), trained
himself to a lectureship in physiology at
the age of 23 and has held the Chair in
his subject for the past eight years. A
still-nippy 64.
• •
Herewith recorded, the rugged face of
Rob Shaw-Moody, in his lime known
widely in New Guinea as planter, trader
schooner-owner-skipper, and later in gold,
development—he pegged the first lease
on the Edie Creek field. Now he’s mine
host of the Kimberley Hotel, at Hall’s
Creek in the East Kimberley district of
Westralia. At 66 he is possibly the last
surviving member of the party which,
under Canning’s leadership in 1906-7,
surveyed the stock-route from Wiluna
to Sturt’s Creek, some 800 miles. Shaw-
Moody was then a junior officer of the
Westralian Lands and Survey Depart-
ment. The early optimism of those who
believed that thousands of Kimberley-
bred store-cattle would pass annually
over Route, to be dispersed
PUBLICAN
from Wiluna to W.A. fattening-
areas, was never justified—the trail
was too dry; though even today
some cattle use it, from Bililuna station,
drovers riding camels and hand-watering
their mob. Still true to the old lure,
Shaw-Moody has a gold-show on the
Hall’s Creek field, and has high hopes of
his reef. Meantime his personality
(which got him rank of captain in the
U.S. Navy, in charge of small ships round
the islands in War II) provides a fitting
background of color to the host of an
historical pub in one of the remotest parts
of an outback Australia.
f aa o 11 . ™. „
om E. O. Schlunke to Fitz :
In your par. about the occupations of con-
tnbutors to Australian Poetry 1954 you have
again saddled me with the infamy of being a
wheatgrower. It is a fact that in the distant
past I did grow a little wheat along with my
sheep; but for years I have been trying to
live down this juvenile error. In fact I keep
a special gun in easy reach for the people
who come to my place wanting to sow wheat
on my land on “the shares.” Moreover, if you
read my agricultural articles on the “M.0.L.”
page you will see that I have nothing but ill
to say of wheatgrowers, whom I have fre-
quentJy saddled with the responsibility for the
ruin of a great deal of the country’s soil,
Kmdly have the goodness to take a black
pencil and remove the slur from my reputation
in your file.
u . ..
Further to the above communication, a
Bulletin man who stayed on Schlunke s
property records having seen, as well as
sheep, beef-cattle and emus. He had
also thought he saw eight stalks of wheat,
but believes now they must have been
wild-oats.
The intense face here Prioried is the
sole property of Gordon Grimsdale, a
man to whom Australian radio-audiences
should be grateful—Grimsdale believing
in the intellectual adultness of radio-
listeners, and producing radio-serials
accordingly; his version of Paul Brick-
hill’s Reach for the Sky has the
PRODUCER
dramatic excellence of a first-rate
stage-play.
Grimsdale began his broadcasting (as
an announcer) in Wellington (N.Z.), after
some Repertory work in Dunedin, and
left it for fighter-piloting. With the N.Z.
Air Force, 15th Fighter Squadron, he was
among the first Fernland pilots to see
active service in the islands —Guadal-
canal, New Georgia, Torokina,
Eventually he shifted to Corsairs, and,
heading for a raid over Bougainville, his
flight was jumped by Jap fighters. They
immediately jettisoned their belly-tanks,
and in the resultant stooging round about
20,000 ft. over the sea, ran out of gas.
The nearest solid was a Yank carrier,
With no hook to catch the arrestor-wires,
Grimsdale touched-down* brakes burning,
finishing up in the crash-barrier. His
flying ended when he landed on a Pacific-
island strip. Accustomed to flying with
his goggles up on his forehead, he came
in, wound back the canopy, and was im-
mediately beset by a junior hurricane
which belted upwards iijto his eyes
through numerous bullet-holes in his air-
craft. A small tonnage of coral-dust made
short work of his vision.
The war was about ended anyway—•
Grimsdale joined the N.Z. Broadcasting
Service, was sent by it to the ITS. for
experience, for close on two years studied
and produced at the Pasadena Playhouse
in California, became assistant-director on
a Los Angeles TV-station, returned home
and after a year crossed to Sydney. Now
(Australian Record Company his firm)
he’s one of the most competent radio-
producers in Australia.
• •
W. G. Gerard has mixed a bit in Adel-
aide business—president of the Chamber
of Manufactures, of the Metal Industries
Association, the Electrical Development
Association and the Electrical Manufac-
turers’ Association. So he’s well-rigged to
branch out into a wider sphere, with elec-
tion as Federal president of the Associ-
ated Chambers of Manufactures. Been a
Rotary Club president also, and is
current captain of Kooyonga Golf Club,
round towards Adelaide’s Henley Beach.
« •
“Waddlin’ Willie”: Known to hundreds
of Australian radio-amateurs, and heard
by thousands of short-wave listeners on
the 20-metre-band, Herbert Hoover, Jnr.,
American Under-Secretary of State and
No. 2 to Foster Dulles, is .now back in
the U.S. after his Iran trip; he tells his
aerial friends in these parts- that he’s con-
templating a trip to Australia “when the
pressure eases”; his father, of course,
found his way to this part of the world
before the pressure had really started on
him. One of America’s best-known
radio amateurs, H.H., Jnr., was first
licensed in 1920 and had his first contacts
with Australia a few years later. Since
then, apart from war-time interruption,
he has been in regular contact. His lovely
summer home in Santa Barbara over-
looking the Pacific is always open to his
Australian friends passing through, and
those who have visited it have found him
a charming host intensely interested in
world affairs. He’s a chip off the old
block. Just on 30 years ago the third of
a series of national radio-conferences
called by Herbert Hoover, Snr. (then Sec-
retary of Commerce), assigned radio-
amateurs their first short-wave bands.
Lately, in contact with young Hoover, I
had the pleasure of talking to the former
President, now 80 —from the voice and
personality “over the air” apparently as
active and full-of-pep as in his heyday.
• •
Christmas-present for David Charles
Wells—command of the R.A.N.’s newly
commissioned, most modern anti-
submarine frigate, ex-destroyer Queen-
borough. To join the Fleet in January,
after intensive working-up, Queen-
borough is one of those electronics-
crammed marvels which throw depth-
charges over like chicken-feed —and they
don’t miss. Her new captain was born
at Inverell (N.S.W.) a few days after
War I ended, has had a score of years
in service, is a signals (now changed to
“communications”) expert, and had War
II destroyer-time with a British flotilla
escorting convoys to Murmansk, screen-
ing the North African landing forces
and hunting U-boats in the Atlantic.
Later a staff-officer with Collins in the
Pacific, he was wounded on cruiser Aus-
tralia’s bridge at Leyte by the first Jap
suicide-bomber to hit the. ship.
“F.S.”: Graham Sutherland, who
painted the portrait of Sir Winston
Churchill (of which the distinguished
sitter said; “It makes me look half-witted,
which I ain’t”), has works hanging in all
the leading galleries of the U.K., America
and Europe, and in the Metropolitan
Museum of Modern Art in New York,
the Valhalla of every modern painter.
Despite this 1 wouldn’t mind betting that
Churchill is the better artist. Sutherland
says that the old man was a bad sitter,
who criticised everything he did. One
morning he found his picture had been
altered and seemed to suggest that
Churchill had been working on it. Judg-
ing by his own pictures, Churchill could
have made his portrait better. The
G.0.M., unlike Sutherland, never had an
academic training—he watched a woman
painter at work, she gave him a few
elementary lessons on how to mix paint
and apply it, and he loved the game
so much that every moment he could
snatch from statecraft he got out his
easel and enjoyed himself painting what
was before him. His landscapes are quite
good— at any rate, they don’t look as if
he were trying to imitate some other
artist; and they have some of the fresh-
ness of Nature. Those of Sutherland’s
I’ve seen are stale with fashion.
• •
Owner of the* genial phiz here Coven-
trated may now be found behind a door
marked “President, Adelaide Chamber
of Commerce” —name, A. P. Whitington.
South Australian manager of Bunge
(Australia), the big grain-merchants and
flour-millers, A.P. has his own roots
solidly set in South Australian soil. His
great-grandfather, W. S. Whitington,
merchant and shipbuilder, landed in
Adelaide from the Old Country in his
own windjammer in 1840, bound on his
honeymoon, and bringing on the trip the
first thoroughbred hprses to South Aus-
tralia ; later he brought the first steam-
ship into Port Adelaide. Finished with
PRESIDENT
the sea W<s settled as a nastnralict nn
me sea, w.b. setnea as a pastoraiist on
land in the Adelaide hills where now
stands the Oakbank racecourse, famed
for its Great Easter Steeplechase, run on
Easter Monday—the track’s sole meet-
iilg of the year, and in its picnic nature
the rinsed Australia ppN tn Fncnm
the closest Australia gets to Epsom
Downs on Derby Day. A.P., who started
as a bank-clerk, has three out-of-business
pursuits racing homing-pigeons, grow-
ing roses and playing bowls, in that
order
Victorian provincial art-prizes still go
monotonously to metropolitan artists,
Laurence Scott Pendlebury, who won the
Dunlop £3OO prize last year, gets the
Bendigo Art Gallery’s £75 award for an
oil, “Old Houses in Carlton.” Watercolor
prize went to Kenneth Jack, with honor-
able mentions for Weaver Hawkins,
Michael Panas and A. J. Murch.
Continued from Red Page—RONALD
McCUAIG, editor of “Australian Poetry,
1954,” pursued by Arthur Horner.
J. B. (Jimmy) Burrell, retiring from
Sydney Church of England Grammar
School (Shore), has been 33 years with
that school, which means that he is well
and affectionately known to quite a tidy
number of people of all ages and all over
N. S. Wales and elsewhere. An Old
Digger, he was a young one when he
joined Shore shortly after World War I;
he soon claimed attention as a rowing-
coach, and subsequently became master
in charge of rowing for 18 years until
he retired from that position in 1947.
His successes were frequent, and, as
Shore’s Headmaster, L. C. Robson,
notes: “He [Burrell] took the fours
while I took the eight, which is rather
like saying that he did the hard work
while I reaped the benefit. He was by
far the most successful coach of four-
oared crews in his time in the State.” He
was also an admirable teacher, who
demonstrated continually “that some-
thing more than theoretical knowledge
and self-assurance is needed to succeed
with schoolboys.”
• •
Into the Silence;
In Wellington (N.Z.), Joseph Atfel, War I
soldier, first chairman of New Zealand’s Red
Cross Society and first chairman of the joint
Red Cross and St. John organisations. In
business, equally prominent—one-time president
of the Wellington Manufacturers’ Federation,
and of. the N.Z. Garment Manufacturers’
Federation.
At Beverley (W.A.), at 77, Albert A. Wood,
retired farmer, who ploughed his first furrow
in the Westralian County Peak area about
55 years ago: Besides serving for years on
the Beverley Road Board, he was a foundation-
member of the Beverley Rifle Club, and a keen
shot till the end. A week before the motor-
accident which caused his death he won a
range-trophy at his club’s last shoot of the
year.
In New Zealand, old Te Pairi, one of the
last of the full-blooded Maoris; his age was
given as anything from 110 to 120. Te Pairi
was “out with Te Kootl” in the 1870’s and
kept to the inaccessible Tuhoe country when
the collapse came. He would have liked to
shake hands with the Queen when she visited
New Zealand last year, but he was too frail
to journey from the bush. He had a vast
knowledge of his tribe’s folk-lore and gave
much help to Elsdon Best in his work on
Maori traditions and tribal-customs. Te Pairi
saw the white man become boss in the land
the Maoris colonised; he could not prevent it,
but to the last he urged the Maori youth to
know their own story and preserve their
customs.
In Sydney, at 81, John Ross Wallace, dho
left staff newspaperwork to found the Sydney
and Melbourne Publishing Co., producers of
trade-journals. One-time mayor of Mosman
(Sydney), president of the Mosman Bowling
Club and vice-president of the National Rifle
Association of N.S.W., he had 10 years with
the “S. M. Herald,” and was its special corre-
spondent for the Boxer Rebellion.
In Melbourne, James Mulcahy, assistant
supply-manager of General Motors-Holden,
with General Motors since the firm’s formation
in Australia in 1926. He’d had service in the
R.A.N., rank of lieutenant-commander.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 77, Winnard Milton
Singleton, who in his 23 years with the dairy-
division of New Zealand’s Department of
Agriculture did much to establish the dairy-
industry, introducing the curd-test, the acidi-
meter, and preparing pure culture-starters for
cheese-makers. A Canadian who arrived in
the Dominion in 1901, he instigated much
legislation for the betterment of N.Z. cheese
and its makers.


OUT FOR A DUCK


ABORIGINALITIES
"YEARNING with Harry, we recalled
a back-country family who’d grown to
adulthood. “S’funny, when y’ come to
think of it,” I said, “but when I was there
the youngest of those five kids was nine-
teen, the eldest twenty-seven, and none
of ’em had evei; been in a railway-train.”
Harry drank thoughtfully. “Yair,” he
said, “that’s thirty year ago and none of
’em have been in a train yet.” “Aw, go
on! ” “Fair dinkum! They bought a car
after you left. Other cars since. They
do all their travelling by road and in
planes.” It set me wondering. How many
bush people have dodged going by train
in the past ten or fifteen years?—“Old-
timer.”
* * * •
“Arev”: Sam lived alone in the scrub,
except for his big black cat, which had
learned to kill and bring home rabbits.
“Aw, please. Doc., just a quick look.”
Sam took his share of the rabbits, holding
that it was a division of labor —the cat
doing the hunting and Sam the cooking.
Then came the day when the hut door
flew open, the cat flew out and Sam
followed, bellowing threats. Somebody
calmed him and sought explanation. “The
flamin’ cat insulted me,” Sam growled.
“Good as called me a blackfeller!
“Blackfeller?” “Yair, what do y’ reckon
he brought home for dinner —a flamin’
big black snake!”
“Waddlin’ Willie”: In addition to the
darkened area of the Antarctic continent
claimed by Australia, the new Antarctic
stamp (B. 1/12/’54) also shows Heard
and Macquarie Islands and the new
Mawson base. The first two are black
dots in the Antarctic Ocean at 11-o’clock
and two-o’clock, and the base, immediately
below Heard, is a white speck. Credit
for design of the stamp —one of Austra-
lia’s best —goes to Mrs. P, G. Law, wife
of the leader of the Australian National
Antarctic Research Expedition. Post-
master Bill Storer will be a busy
man at Mawson base when the
Kista Dan arrives in February.
Thousands of letters bearing the
new stamp to be franked at Mawson
are piling up at Melbourne G.P.O. My
only wish is that Bill will have a few on
hand to affix to his radio QSL card for
me. He’s VKIEG, the southernmost
amateur radio-station on the globe.
* * • •
“Q.V.”: What sort of brew did “Boga-
duck’s” publican (B. 17/11/’54) sell
when his guests couldn’t tell white cocka-
too from wild-duck? We often tried
cockatoo in the early days. Roasted
(rubber), grilled (leather) and boiled or
stewed (rags). We got over it by currying
them, the bushman’s final resource with
rough tucker. I had another go at cocka-
too not long ago. If anything, the years
have toughened their fibres and made
them more resistant to the pot. Cockatoo
and wild-duck! Epicurean rags and
riches on the one plate! Don’t make me
laugh!
* * * *
“K.A.”: Handicapped by a gammy leg
he hobbles around his rabbit-traps. Noth-
ing unusual in that, but he is the only
“There you are —I told you not to wear that silly hat!"
man I have ever seen who sets his traps
with one hand. Unique?
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Since nor’-Westraha
was first opened up for settlement pas-
toralists have been battling for water and
fighting hard to conserve the meagre
supplies. Their stock has shared the few
seasonal-running rivers with emus, kan-
garoos and myriads of small life, been
driven from the waterholes by wild
donkeys, and had the water polluted by
stray camels. Now they’re up against
something new. With tin at nearly £lOOO
a ton the search for that metal has intensi-
fled and some rich localities have been
found; but tin calls for sluicing, and
that needs water. So the ore
is carted to a water - supply, usually
a river, and the stock have to
compete with centrifugal pumps. Rivers
passing through stations remain Crown
property, so the owners can’t exclude the
miners, and in a case before his court
recently the warden at Marble Bar said
that the Government might soon have to
decide which of the two industries —
mining or pastoral—was to survive in the
north. There shouldn’t be any question
which one that should be —a country is
still as strong as its agriculture.
* * * *
“Mackville”: Explorer Howitt shot
those wild pigeons (B. 24/11/’54) because
the carrier-pigeons he had brought from
Melbourne to Cooper’s Creek had lost
their tails in transit and were unable to
fly. He plucked the tails from the dead
birds and requested Wheeler, the party’s
doctor, to attach the feathers to the stubs
remaining on the homers. This done
(don’t ask me how), and with messages
attached to their legs, the pigeons flew
. but three were killed by a hawk and
t b e fourth took to the trees and refused
to i eave them. Thus Melbourne failed
to get t h e news promptly that King, sole
survivor of the Burke and Wills tragedy,
had been found. Howitt set the pigeons
an impossible task. The farthest any
homing-pigeon is expected, to fly in
N.S.W. is from Bourke to Sydney—a
little under 500 miles. A big percentage
of pigeons released in Bourke do not
reach home. Cooper’s Creek must be
fully 900 miles from Melbourne as the
pigeon would fly; I doubt if there is a
homing-pigeon in Australia capable of
flying home from that distance—yet
Howitt expected his birds to do it with
artificial tails!
THE PLEIADES
[Prom Some Myths and Legends of the Australian Aborigines by W. J. Thomas.]
Once there were seven ice-maidens, seven,
seven ice-maidens there were.
The mountain was their father and mother,
the mountain was their parent, the mountain,
the mountain whose head is always hidden.
Like a cold wind, like a very cold wind
wandered across the land the seven maidens,
the seven maidens like a cold wind.
Streamed their hair, behind them
streamed their hair, their long hair,
like storm-clouds streamed their hair.
The sun kissed them, the sun
caressed them, flushed their white cheeks
with his kiss, with his kiss,
the sun caressed them.
But their kiss was as death to men, cold,
cold as death to men.
Wurrunah, Wurrunah set a net, he set a net,
a net he set to catch them,
to capture the sisters, the beautiful sisters.
Two of them he caught, two of them he netted,
Wurrunah by cunning captured two of them,
two of the seven maidens he netted.
Cold they were, cold, their lips, their hair,
cold as the tresses of their parent,
the white tresses of their parent, their parent,
the mountain parent of the seven ice-maidens.
To his camp he took them, to his fire,
Wurrunah to his fire took them, to warm them,
to melt them at his fire, at his fire,
Wurrunah knelt at his fire.
And the icicles melted his fire, melted
the crystals, the ice in their hair,
the white crystals melted dimming their bright-
ness,
the brightness of the ice-maidens.
At his fire Wurrunah dimmed their fire.
Cold was Wurrunah, Wurrunah
sitting by his quenched fire.
Heard the maidens, the singing of the maidens,
the singing of the sisters, high in the sky, the
five,
the five wandering maidens.
Wurrunah went hunting for food, for food
Wurrunah went hunting, told the maidens, the
two
maidens, gather me pine-bark, pine-bark gather
to make me a gunyah.
To a tree they came, to a pine-tree,
they came to a pine-tree, their totem,
and climbed into its branches, climbed, climbed,
into the branches of their totem-tree they
climbed.
Grew to the sky did their totem, the tree, the
pine
grew to the sky, to the sky
grew the totem-tree bearing aloft the lost
maidens,
Twinkle in the sky the seven maidens, the seven
stars, the five bright stars, very bright stars.
Twinkle in the sky the sisters, the two
wives of Wurrunah, the two
stars dimmed of the bright seven.
Weep the sisters for the earth, weep,
weep the sisters, the sisters,
letting down their hair.
Falls the hair of the bright sisters,
the hair of the sisters, like snow, like snow
is the falling hair of the seven sisters, weeping,
weeping for Wurrunah weeping, weeping for
the earth.
N.Z,
W. HART-SMITH.
Two Bottles of Scotch
TTP on the remote mountain-country
New Guinea airstrip there’d been
none of the nobler beverages to drink
for seven weeks. Trade twist for a
smoke. Hardship true, in the New
Guinea sense.
The resident exile, Mac, had become
immune to the situation. Not so Green
River Joe, up from Wewak, and
marooned on the mountain strip at this
juncture. After a day and a night G.R.
Joe felt urgent need of the social ameni-
ties of the coast, and said so in forthright
fashion.
There was nothing for it but outright
cruelty.
“Nothing here,” said Mac.
“When’ll they fly some in?” demanded
Joe.
“God knows,” said Mac. “You should
know the way it goes in New Guinea.”
Green River Joe knew the way it went.
For the next three days a bear with a
sore head, toothache and ulcers on his
ulcers would have looked like a welfare-
worker. On Joe’s fourth day a plane
plunked down on the strip and chucked
out two (2) bottles of Scotch.
“They’re for Otto,” the pilot shouted
above the idling prop. “He’ll be coming
through in a coupla days. 0.K.?”
Mac carried these two babes-in-the-
wood in over the veranda of the grass-
thatched donga and stood them up on the
kai-table. Green River Joe paused in his
puma-prowling and looked at them. A
long, hard but hopeful look—the last-
ditch look a lost Sahara straggler uses
on what could be a lake of elixir or a
mirage.
“For Otto. He’ll be through in a day
or two,” Mac said.
It seems best to skip the next day or
two. And the delayed-action silence that
pervaded the donga.
Otto turned up on one of the rattle-
trap motor-bikes peculiar to the region
and the two bottles were dutifully handed
to him. Otto handed one back to Mac.
“You have this,” he said. “I can only
carry one on the bike, anyway.”
Mac carried the survivor back out of
exhaust-range as Otto the Illustrious
surged off through the kunai, and duly
reinstalled the nectar on the table in the
donga. It was about 4 p.m.
“For us,” he announced to loe.
“True?” said Joe.
“True,” said Mac.
loe approached the altered situation
with becoming ceremonial. Ordered the
wash-wash boy to prepare a hot shower
in the suspended oil-drum, demanded
shaving-water and his most impeccable
Saigon-linen white strides and shirt to
be laid out. Told the boybilong-house-
cook to reappear in a clean white lap-lap
and to stand in deferential attendance.
Mac was shamed into retiring for half
an hour and returning looking reason-
ably pukka.
Settled, leg-stretched in cane chairs on
the veranda as the sun went down, Green
River Joe said, “Care for a peg, old
boy?”
YBSUL.


A SMALL showing of uranium had
been discovered near the little old
mining-town, and the inhabitants could
talk of nothing else. Old Geordie had
invested in what he called a “giggle-
counter,” and he was telling the mob out-
side the pub all about it. “She’s good, all
right,” he said. “I found a beehive in the
bush with her las’ week.” —“C.P.K.”
» * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Unknown to us the
little bloke had sneaked a ride on the
back of the load. He was all-in when
we lifted him down, and he stretched out
on the running-board, gazing at us with
lack-lustre eyes, his tongue licking at
dry lips. He wore a set of smoky-purple
overalls, decorated with lacy-yellow
motifs, and with irregular bands of
yellow from top to bottom. White skin
gleamed through the open chest. He
looked queer with his spatulate unshod
feet, ophidianlike head, no ears to speak
of. He moved away a little, walking
with sinuous grace despite hi£ tiredness.
My mate didn’t like him, but I did,
picked him up and carried him inside to
recuperate. He stayed around my desk
for a fortnight, that quiet little 6in.
goanna, but he is missing now. Our big
black cat says he knows nothing, so I’m
not certain whether this is an epitaph or
a valedictory.
* * * *
“Kerba”: John Hunter, author of the
authentic book Hunter, once a big-game
shooter and guide, now a game-warden
in Kenya, states that shooting with
movie-cameras instead of firearms has
become the vogue among tourists, and
every camera-shooter wants a shot of a
pride of lions, so it is the guide’s job to
set the scene. The guide shoots a zebra,
drags it to a suitable position, then brings
the tourist to the spot when the lions are
getting in for their cut. Years ago a gun-
shot would send every lion in the area
into alert hiding; now the lions associate
a shot with a good feed, so they come
bounding the sound. They do
not connect man with motor-vehicles, but
they do associate motor-vehicles with
dead zebras, and will lope behind safari
trucks for miles. Like sheep, which will
gather at the sound of the scrub-cutter’s
axe and follow any old car, after they’ve
been fed from a motor-truck.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Black - duck will
push their ducklings out —when they’re a
few hours old —from nests up to 20ft.
above ground. If it comes to that, I’ve
seen a hen push her chicks from a nest
on the top of a haystack. The fall
doesn’t hurt the little bundles of fluff,
and they will walk in single-file a mile
or two to .water. But sometimes there’s
further to go. I’ve seen a mountain-
duck’s nest in a dead stump 10 miles from
the nearest lake, and the ducklings were
swimming a few hours after hatching.
The mother flew in with one in her beak,
dumped it in a patch of dry grass, and
told it to lie low. She put each following
one in a different patch of grass, and
when she made the last trip she went
straight into the water and called. They
came swimming. On the other hand, a
chap I’ve known as a reliable observer
says he’s seen a duck carrying the young
to water on her back.
* * * ♦
“Nimrod”; “Rhubarb,” first-aid bloke
on this lease, was complaining about the
deviltry of some of his fellow-workers
They had discovered that the foam from
his fire-extinguishers made an efficient
cooling-agent for their beer. Further,
when matted for misuse of the apparatus,
a bush-lawyer among them had con-
tended that misuse was not proven in
that, in event of fire, their refreshments
would have been adequately protected,
the use for which the foam was intended.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: After Mat was caught
out he took his turn at umpiring the
Walpebool-Undowangie match. The
Walpe. bowler appealed for l.b.w. “No
good,” Mat said.. Two balls later bowler,
’keeper and sundry fielders screamed
“Howzzat?” for a snick. “No good,” Mat
said. The next ball skittled the stumps.
“Howzzat?” demanded the bowler, sar-
castically. Mat pursed his lips. “A bit
better,” he conceded.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”; No substance, how-
ever potent, can breed either mushrooms
or yeast unless the spore or seed is already
present (B. 17/11/’54). They’re both
plants, mushrooms being the fruiting
bodies of fungi which grow from spores
and are completely parasitic. They
appear most frequently where spores fall
amongst a plentiful supply of food when
weather and other conditions are suit-
able. But they must originate in the
spore. Yeast is a group of minute cells,
each cell a plant of the genus saccha-
romyces. Yeast-food is called wort, and
is mainly some form of sugar with the
“Better put another stay in before th’ late rush."
addition of nitrogenous matter and
mineral-salts.
* ♦ * *
“Emel”; A 4|lb. trout, caught in Lake
Wartook (Vic.), had inside a"small black-
duck, still covered with down.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: It was 110 in the shade,
mid-afternoon, and I had just finished
spraying the grapevines with water from
the overhead tank when the four little
wrens arrived. The three ladies, in
creamy brown and off-white ensembles,
were distressed and panting, with droop-
ing wings and open beaks. But his lord-
ship was in fine fettle, in his fancy-dress
rigout of blue beret and old-world
shoulder-cape of fawn. And a sombre
black waistcoat, mind you, on a day like
this, with white trousers and soft brown
coat with ultra-swallowtail. Dashing
gallantly among the cold foliage on his
broom-straw legs, he snapped up the tiny
insects, and in cavalier fashion carried
the titbits to his lady-loves. They basked
in his chivalry whilst his swelled-headed
flutterings scattered the cool water-drops
among them. The attentions continued
and their listlessness departed; with
brightened eyes and straightened wings
they preened each other and twittered
avian gossip. Near by the overdressed
little upstart sat, quite still now,
tolerantly amused, supreme in the magic
of his strategy. But give that lad his due
—he has a way with women!
SLIGHT AMENDMENT
W6TJULLO. Yes? Oh, it’s you, Thel?
A l You’re early this morning. Got
the kids off to school yet? You have!
I don’t know how you do it. Mine aren’t
anywhere near ready yet. The little devils
have been driving me nearly silly. One
wants some money for his comic ; Bar-
bara can’t find her school-bag—they think
you’ve got eyes all over your head. . .
Norma, I told you your hair-ribbon was
in the top right-hand drawer. If it had
teeth it’d bite you . . .
“Isn’t it dreadful. Thelma? They
“ ’Struth, Wa've forgotten McTavish!”
expect you to wait on them hand and
foot. When I was their age I
had to press my own hair-ribbons and
do practically everything for myself. The
trouble with the kids these days there’s
too much done for them. It’s our own
fault, 1 1 suppose—we’ve made a rod for
our own backs. . .
“Wally, will you leave that cat alone!
He’s holding it by the tail and it’s squawk-
ing like mad. I sometimes feel I could
rush out of the house and leave them
all to fend for themselves.
“What’s that, Thel? Go into town
with you? I’m sorry, dear, but I just
don’t feel up to it. I think I’d die if I
had to walk around the shops today. I
can hardly drag one leg after the other,
I’m so weary. I had an awful night’s
sleep—seemed to be dreaming all night.
The. silliest things, and they all seemed
to be garbled. . ,
“No, Wally, you can’t have another
banana. My heavens, he’s had two
already this morning, and they’re three-
penc? each. No wonder we never have
any money. Thelma, are your kids like
mine, always eating? They’d keep on
till they burst, I think, if I didn’t‘stop
them. Isn’t it awful!
“Yes, I’m sorry about town, Thel, but
really I feel more like turning into bed
for the day. I just couldn’t stand .the
thought of getting into corsets and high-
heeled shoes and walking around in the
heat. I feel all I want to do is lie down
and relax. I’ve still got some of last
week’s, ironing waiting to be done, andi
I know there’s plenty of mending if I
liked to look for it. And I’m simply
appalled at the thought of all the socks
I’ve got to darn —Harry was stinkpots
with me this morning because he couldn’t
find a pair—he had to wear some new
ones. I don’t know —I never seem to
have time to get through all the work
lately. I think I
must be slowing-up
or something.
“Who?. . . Your
Aunt Millie? Oh,
yes . . . What’s
wrong with her this
time? Yes, she’s a
whinger, isn’t she 1
And, really, she has
nothing to growl at.
She has an easy-
going husband and
no financial worries.
I don’t know —some
people don’t deserve
to have the luck
they do. She’s not
too fond of work,
either. I think your
Uncle Joe has a lot
to put up with, but
I’ll bet he thinks a
lot more of her than
Tom does of you or
Harry of me. I
think the more you
do for a husband
the less you’re
thought of , . .
“Barbara, put
those earrings down
at once! What’s
that? You certainly
can not. The very idea! Did
you hear that, Thel? Only wanted
to wear those new gunmetal ear-
rings of mine to school, if you please!
Did you ever hear the like! It’s no
wonder I’m all-in by the time I get them
away of a morning. After they’re gone
I just feel like flopping on the bed. And
they’ve got me that nervy!
“Yes, Thel, it’s a pity about today, but,
really, I feel that if I were to rush around
at all getting ready and that I’d just
collapse. I’ve got a thumping head, too —
I was just going to make myself a cuppa
and take a couple of A.P.C.s. I suppose
I’ll simply have to do a bit of work, but
I certainly don’t feel like it. I’ll just take
it quietly today . . .
“You know, Thel, I do envy women
like Madeleine. She never seems to
worry if her work isn’t done. And I
simply dread answering the phone in case
she’s on the other end. She will keep you
talking for hours, and it’s all about
nothing, too. She seems to think every-
one has as much time to waste as her-
self ...
“Wally, turn off that tap this instant!
You’ve had it running already for about
ten minutes. And, Norma, go into the
bathroom and dry you hair —you will
put too much water on it. Barbara, stop
staring at yourself in the mirror. My
heavens, all the instructions; Isn’t it
terrible, Thelma —do yours drive you
nuts like this, too?
“What was I talking about? Oh, yes,
Madeleine. And you know, Thel, she’s
always at the doctor’s. And, really,
there’s nothing actually wrong with her.
She’ll tell you she’s half-dead, and half
an hour later she’s dashing off to town
shopping, and then she’ll come home and
want to go to the pictures at night. I
think she tells you she’s half-dead just to
get sympathy ...
“Well, Thel, I suppose I’d better get
along and make this cuppa as soon as
I get the kids off. Their bus goes in a
few minutes. And won’t I appreciate
it! I feel that tired, and the day has
only started. Isn’t it awful to get like
that . . . What did you say, Thel? They
are ? What price? J Seventy-nine and
eleven! You won’t get that make of
shoe anywhere under five guineas. Isn’t
it terrible the price they are? And I’ve
been waiting for a pair of white shoes.
We can’t miss them. All right, then, I’ll
see you, let’s see, in about an hour at the
bus-stop. We’ll see about the shoes, and
I’ve got to get a zip and a few other odds-
and-ends. And we can grab a spot of
lunch and see an afternoon picture . . .
“Well, I’ll have to fly around if I’ve
got to meet you in an hour. I haven’t
made a bed or done a thing. And I’ve
got to get the kids off. See you shortly.
By-bye, Thel.”
BO.


FcuUi in the
Future
To Australians of romantic heart the Pacific
will always be a beautiful blue mystery.
Many of us have stood as children on the
shore and wondered what lay in island charm
beyond the line where the eastern sky met the
ocean.
Whatever adventurous thoughts it may have
conjured in our youthful minds, the Pacific stands
in our vision today as a vast and important domain
with which Australia’s future will be increasingly
linked.
And working among the islands that sprinkle
it. is the South Pacific Commission.
When six countries administering Pacific
territories come together to pool their resources
for the social, economic and medical welfare of the
islanders, I say that is significant beyond the telling.
Australians, New Zealanders, Britons, Ameri-
cans, French and Dutch have started on a humane
mission that should redound to their credit in the
years ahead.
It is a practical work, with specialists attached
to the Commission’s research council visiting
territories and advising on measures necessary to
improve the community standards.
It may be the native growing of rice in Papua
and New Guinea, a survey of eye health in the
Carolines, experiments in cocoa planting in the
New Hebrides or Fiji, an investigation of teaching
methods in the Solomons. The field is as wide as
the great ocean itself.
To me, this is vital. These people are our
neighbours; some are the responsibility of our own
Government. They are proud, and with every
reason. They had their kingdoms and their culture
for centuries before any Western explorer
penetrated their sea-circled world.
The things that we call modern may have
passed their islands by. But freedom is their right.
And now that we 1 can help them to enjoy it more
fully we can say very truly that a great privilege
has come to us.
By Appointment
to H. M. King
frederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointmenfi
to H. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands'-
|! ; i ' • Wl
P*«4 4 I*l CUu MW»>»
CHERRY
!l!» t° «e!!i»i °!aK*»«»’!
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Denmark'*
liqueur delight.
for your after
dinner enjoyment
OMf*
quO-^
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
INDUSTRY IN 1955
/"\FFICIAL figures from the
Canberra statisticians
confirm what many company-
chairmen have been saying, and
that is that most manufacturing
activity has continued to increase
since the 1953-54 financial year
closed. Admittedly the upcurve
in factory activity particularly
noticeable earlier this year has
flattened out, largely because of
a growing scarcity of manpower
and materials. But the level of
production and sales has been
better than expected. It remains
for man-hour output to improve
if any further increase is to be
established. As The Bulletin
has emphasised many times, the
key to greater production and
sales is lower-cost production,
expressed in terms of man-hour
cost.
The Division of Industrial
Development, Canberra, makes
the same point in its latest survey
of factory activity, and illustrates
it. It says; “As things stand,
the self-evident need is for higher
productivity from those now
employed. An increase of only
2 p.c. in manufacturing produc-
tivity would be equivalent to
adding 20,000 to the work-force,
without the need to spend tens
of millions of pounds on extra
houses and public facilities. This
could be done either by working
more overtime or, preferably, by
winning greater production per
man per hour.” r
Looking towards 1955, which
is opportune at this late stage of
1954, the D.I.D. says the possi-
bility of further gains in output
is conditioned by the availability
of men, money and materials,
and says that each is scarce or
becoming scarce. This suggests
that industry will find it difficult
to take up much more of the
slack in machine-capacity which
still exists in engineering and
many other industries.
Skilled labor —boilermakers,
fitters, turners, tradesmen of
various types, and * also
apprentices—has been scarce in
Australia throughout the post-
war period ; the difference now
is that a chronic shortage has
been accentuated by the pressure
on production.
To retain both skilled and
unskilled labor, manufacturers
are generally
obliged to pay
over-award rates
or to concede
some overtime
a t “time-and-a-
half.”
The recession
of 1952 and its
aftermath had a
salutary effect on
labor effort.
Numerous manu-
facturers found
that the same
level of produc-
tion could be
maintained with
fewer hands em-
ployed, and with-
out any injurious
effects on those
doing the job.
The improve-
ment was held
through 195 3 ,
and it is only in
recent months
that complaints
have been made
of reduced efforts
by emplo ye e s
and an unduly high turnover in
labor. A general impression is
that a return to full employ-
ment has caused a very slight
falling-off in manpower effort
during 1954.
Productivity has been stimu-
lated during the past year by
manufacturers who have
improved methods of work,
factory-layout and materials-
handling. While steel-shortage
has been sometimes a restricting
factor, there has been a steady
improvement in production
methods, apparent in engineering
industries particularly. Some
industries can still do with an
overhaul of their managerial
techniques.
A sustained, long - term
improvement in productivity is
taking place through capital
investment in modern equipment,
replacing obsolescent machinery,
or mechanising processes
formerly carried out by hand.
During 1954 these improvements
in productivity of a managerial
and mechanical nature have far
outweighed any decline caused
by the slight falling-off in labor
effort. In truth, improved pro-
ductivity appears to have been
the major influence for increas-
ing manufacturing output during
the past year.
Manufacturers in 1955 will be
a little better placed to compete
with imports than was 'the case
six or 12 months ago. A larger
volume of output has reduced
costs per unit, productive
efficiency is showing fair
improvement, and in a few indus-
tries small increases in the tariff
have helped to blunt the edge of
overseas competition. The dock
strike in Britain and the probable
reimposition of some import-
controls has also strengthened
the position of the manufacturer,
even if only temporarily.
The shortage of Australian
steel has become more severe,
and has replaced the power-
blackouts of a few years ago as
the chief worry in the metal-
using industries. The price of
steel has lately been increased as
well. The high cost of transport
within Australia is also a liability
in the battle to reduce the cost
of goods and services.
The increase in some marginal
rates of pay will add to the costs
of a number of manufacturers ;
some may be able to absorb them
as a result of progressively
improving technical efficiency.
In any case, Canberra authorities
are of the opinion that manu-
facturers can expect the prevail-
ing tendency towards inflation
to be increasingly counteracted
by the surplus of imports over
exports and of Government
income over expenditure. More-
over, it seems that the very strong
pressure of demand for buildings
and for articles bought on time-
payment will be eased before the
middle of 1955 by the tightening
of bank-credit. The same
authorities are of the opinion
that the middle and long-term
prospects for Australian manu-
factoring are excellent, provided,
productivity can be increased at
"I'm afraid you Wouldn't be able to help me, Dad—
profit and loss has all changed since you Went to school."
least as fast as in the principal
competitive countries overseas,
and a little faster than the infla-
tionary bias which seems to
accompany full employment and
high prosperity.
Recently the demand for
Australian-made goods has
faltered a little only for some
types of textiles and clothing and
a few light-engineering products
which have been vulnerable to
overseas competition. The main
sources of current high sales
spring, as usual, from the build-
ing industry, supported by the
effervescent demand for motor-
vehicles and domestic electrical
appliances. Investment in fixed
capital equipment and expendi-
ture on clothing and other non-
durable goods have each
increased during 1954, but here
the pressure of demand is
moderate. Consumption and
investment each increased during
1954.
Total private investment is now
reported to be running at record
level, mainly because of the
much higher spending on com-
mercial buildings. Expenditure
on fixed plant and equipment
rose throughout the past year,
but is still below the 1951 peak.
The relatively high profits
made during 1954 derive mainly,
in the opinion of the Division
of Industrial Development, from
larger turnover and reduced taxa-
tion rather than from a higher
margin of profit per unit sold,
It is perhaps natural that most
manufacturers have preferred to
use these higher profits to
increase reserves with an eye to
future expansion, and often to
recompense shareholders for the
lean years in the past rather than
to trim their prices to a level
which could not be maintained if
turnover fell.
Fearful of the effects of com-
petition from imported rayon
piece-goods upon net earnings of
Bruck Mills (Aust.), Ltd., the
market has shortened its bid for
the co.’s £1 ords. from 335. 9d.
to 275. 3d. over the last four
months. Though mill-output has
been reduced, the chairman said
at the annual meeting in
October last that maintenance of
a satisfactory level of production
was anticipated. Profit for the
year to June 30, 1954, was
£237,023 (up £49,720), or 20.5 p.c.
on ord. capital, after allowing for
pref. requirements (£12,500), and
the div. was lifted from 11| p.c.
to 12j p.c. Bulli Spinners Pty.,
in which Bruck and John Vicars
and Co. are jointly interested,
recently began production of
mixture - fibre (natural and
synthetic) yarns. At 275. 3d.
Bruck ords. would return 9.1 p.c.
on a p.c. div., or 6.6 p.c. on
a 9 p.c. distribution.


50,000 LETTERS EVERY DAY
In the course of service to customers, A.N.Z. Bank
handles an average of 50,000 letters and other items
of mail every business day. They are posted to and
received from all over Australia and New Zealand
and the far corners of the world.
This great volume of mail is another indication of
the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank—with over
780 branches and agencies to serve you throughout
Australia and New Zealand, in Fiji and Papua, and
in London.
A-N-Z
TP
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Nearly 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
an?, ine.l9,.
BfG farming
jobtodfo?
o
Cl..
0
S )
O Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
"MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itself!
NT.27.32
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and
Dealers everywhere.
.he NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS PROM
£343
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your local Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victorias
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
D
Landon airmail
From Herbert Holman
At last something has been
done about something being
done about the poisonous air we
breathe. In a practical, compre-
hensive and farsighted report,
the Beaver Committee on Air
Pollution recognises the little-by-
little nature of its objective by
stipulating for a reduction of
the “total smoke in all heavily
populated areas by four-fifths by
the end of 10 to 15 years.”
The rising toll of lung-cancer
and the memory of the ghastly
“smog” of two years ago, when
healthy cattle in the show at
Olympia died helplessly of
asphyxiation, will endorse, in the
public opinion, the committee’s
view that air-pollution, as we
know it, is “a social and
economic evil of the first magni-
tude” which “needs to be com-
bated with the conviction and
energy applied to securing pure
water 100 years ago.”
The recommendations for fac-
tories, power-stations and the
like are comparatively simple.
Indeed the industrial aspect of
the problem is far easier to cope
with than the domestic.
Surprisingly, mill-chimneys,
unless given to persistent erup-
tion of black smoke, constitute
a lesser danger to society than
the cowl on the Englishman’s
home. For it is estimated that
nearly half of all the smoke in
the air comes from domestic
chimneys. The burning grate,
with its lively bursts of flame,
darting shadows and warm
homeliness, is thus an insidious
poisoner on the side.
The remedy? Smokeless zones
or, where these are impractic-
able, “smoke-control areas”;
domestic users to be required to
utilise smokeless fuels, including
electricity and gas ; and tenants
of new housing estates would
have, as a condition of tenancy,
to comply with local-authority
requirements.
A declared national policy of
clean air (affirms the report)
should be recognised by the
Government and the nationalised
fuel industries. Purchase tax
should be removed from gas- and
electric-heaters and the Ex-
chequer should bear part of the
cost of the replacement of
domestic open-fires into the less
harmful equivalent.
These findings present a
challenge to the Government
which cannot be side-tracked, as
has happened in the past with the
condition of our roads. To find
a solution, even over a very long
time, is more difficult. As one
illustration only, domestic users
in the “black” areas burn
19 million tons of bituminous
coal in one year. The present
annual output of smokeless fuels
suitable for the. ordinary grate is
only 750,000 tons.
Rebel Revelry
No longer is the Labor-party
split a vertical one. It is three-
dimensional. There are only two
considerations that cause the
several factions to group them-
selves nominally under one head-
ing : they have to convince
themselves that they can put up
a show of a united front for the
general election, when it comes ;
and they are chastened by
memories of Ramsay MacDonald
and of the fatal Liberal split in
1916.
In this stage of unease, Mr.
Attlee and his lieutenants have
fallen back on the expedient of
tightening-Up discipline. They
have looked the other way
from the chief trouble-makers
and made an example of a bunch
of misfits in no position to hit
back.
The editorial board of the
“Tribune” (Messrs. Foot and
Mallalieu and Mrs. Aneurin
Bevan), who are incorrigibly
given over to the unforgivable
sin of making personal attacks
on their colleagues, are let off
with black looks, but the seven
back-benchers who rebelled
against an order have been sus-
pended—the punishment nearest
to expulsion.
The affair leading to this act
(passed on a narrow vote) is
Gilbertian in its paradoxy. The
Labor moderates support Ger-
man rearmament. They have
publicly said so. But this, as we
all know, is a thorny issue, and
some of Mr. Attlee’s own group
are against it. So, to avoid any
further evidence of disagreement,
a three-line whip was issued to
Socialists to abstain from voting
in the division on the‘London
and Paris agreements. That is
to say, although official Labor
policy supports German rearma-
ment, it must not be seen to do
so.
Six back-benchers, known to
be lifelong pacifists or anti-
militarists, defied the whip and
voted against the motion. Since
pacifism is acknowledged in the
Socialist Constitution and prac-
tice as a matter of individual
conscience, the breach of disci-
pline does not seem much more
than a demonstration that ab-
stention was not enough. Un-
wittingly, they revealed them-
selves as scapegoats. They are
orphans in the political com-
munity and will be pitied as such,
being readmitted to favor in all
good time.
But what of the seventh rebel,
Mr. McGovern, who voted for
the motion, thus heartily endors-
ing his leaders’ acceptance of
German rearmament? Here,
indeed, is a paradox.
Montmarlrimony
The vast London Coliseum,
now celebrating its Golden Jubi-
lee of light entertainment for
the masses, has long been given
over entirely to American show-
business. “By arrangement with”
somebody and somebody, one
Broadway musical follows
another with assembly-line regu-
larity and efficiency.
The Brooklyn of Damon
Runyon is now on tour, having
given place to the Paris of Cole
Porter and Abe Burrows in a
resounding and highly-charged
scamper of the Naughty ’Nine-
ties with the appealing title of
“Can-Can.” As with “Guys and
Dolls,” such elements of plot as
are allowed to interrupt the fun
and quite outrageous frolics are
concerned with the conflict
between the good and the not-so-
good. But here, being Paree,
the not-so-good (with, of course,
a heart of gold) enjoys a runaway
triumph.
This happens to be a Madame
who believes in giving her
clientele what they want —the
spiciest of can-cans. An upright
and priggish judge sets out to
evaluate the vice-content of
Montmartre, if such it be, at
first-hand. Before long he has
fallen in love with Madame,
gone rather hesitantly native and
finally appears before hisTormer
colleagues as a prisoner. The
court dissolves, inevitably, into
the dizzy whirl of black stock-
ings and frilly lingerie which is
our leitmotiv.
If Edmund Hockridge, as the
too-human judge, hardly appears
to enjoy his abandon, it is not
the fault of his acting, but
rather the anomaly of a juvenile
lead who has to be insufferably
straitlaced. Irene Hilda (the
Madame) fairly hurtles her pro-
jection across. Yet, unlike so
many of her kind, she grows in
charm and lovableness.
A resolute naughtiness,
sometimes amounting to salac-
ity, imparts an acid taste to the
first half; the strong ingredient
of dancing is expert, but, in
striving to be different, some-
times ugly and distasteful.
The comedy-scenes are rich,
neatly-contrived and delightfully
traditional, thanks to George
Gee, as a. suave, platonic roue,
and to Alfred Marks, as a dead-
pan artist.' Though Porter’s
music falls some way back in
the hit-parade it is still above
average.
What might confound the
more serious playgoer is how
certain scenes have got past the
censor. This ostensibly is popular
entertainment, open to all ages.
Yet parts of it might be con-
strued as having influences not
present in some plays about sex,
written objectively and with sin-
cerity, that have been refused a
licence because their theme was
taboo in the Lord Chamberlain’s
Office.


QUEENSLAND
\
* &
NEW south wales
VICTORIA
±
"From Cape York to Portland"—
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in ail 3 Eastern States!
F
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: B. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive McPherson. K. 8.,
C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.;
C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Biverina: S. L. 6. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Hon. Sir Graham
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E.:
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.; The Hon. Sir
Henry Manning. K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector; Frank Laird.
398-402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman); A. E. Axon,
M.E., M.T.E. (Aust.); B. Hart; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : C. D. Wrigley.
Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Davies Coop & Co., Ltd.
'T'HIS 29-year-old group of cotton-
spinners, -weavers, -bleachers and
-dyers, underwear-manufacturers and
textile-printers has played one of the
leading roles in the establishment of Aus-
tralia’s infant cotton-textile industry.
Moreover, considering the extraordinary
growth of the organisation over the last
four years, the latest accounts provide
pleasing financial evidence of the manage-
ment’s success in reorganisation, modern-
isation and integration of the undertaking,
major development of which is now
nearing completion.
Issued capital shot up from £750,000 in
1950 to £2,534,571 (£300,000 of it carries
a cumulative 6 p.c.) at June 30 last, when
there was still £255,934 to come in. Of
the £1,784,571 increase, £464,117 repre-
sents f.-p. shares issued in exchange for
assets acquired and £1,320,454 was put
up in cash to help finance all-round
growth. The lot brought with it share
premiums totalling £361,155. During
the 1953 term no less than 4,938,285 new
ss. ords. were put out. Shareholders took
2,000,000 of them at par, Bradford Dyers’
Association (U.K.) a further 1,800,000 at
par, and 200,000 paids were exchanged
for issued capital in Associated Textile
Printers Pty. (Melbourne), and 938,285
paid were issued at a premium of 3s. 9d.
each for the freehold, plant and stock of
Hollins Mills of Australia, a British-
controlled spinning and weaving concern
which had got into deep water.
The link-up with the big Bradford
Dyers’ Association forms the background
for much of the recent expansion of the
group. Among other things, it provides
for exchanges of technical know-how in
dyeing and finishing of cotton and linen
yarns and piece-goods, for use in Aus-
tralia of B.D.A.’s special shrink-processes
~and of the trade-mark “Rigmel,” as well
as for erection of a big new dye-house—
due to come into operation any day now
—on a 40-acre block at West Footscray
(Vic.).
Overall the group came through the
troubles of the import flood with an
extra £3429 of declared profit (£250,577)
in 1953 ; and that was after setting aside
£50,216 more than was actually required
for taxation. It was a creditable achieve-
ment considering the expansion and
reorganisation that was taking place at
the same time:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t—* Dividends A
Pref. To Re- , Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 12,000 8 - 42,070 51,205 388,169
Maintenance res. disappears, £20,812.. 367,357
1949.. 166.744 12,000 8 = 42,254 112,490 479,847
1950- 12,000 10 = 53,855 110,610 590,457
Share premiums, £137,500 .. .. 727,957
Unexplained addition, £3873 .. .. 731,830
1951- 15,000 91,416 823,246
Share premiums, £47,727 .. .. 870,973
From outside interests, £7652 . . 878,625
1952- 18,000 111,896 990,521
Share premiums, £175,928 .. .. 1,166,449
Added on acquisition of subsidiary,
£8327 1,174,776
Intangibles appear, £21,882 .. ..1,152,894
1953.. 18,000 77,270 1,230,164
Profit sale land, £55,000 .. .. 1,285,164
From tax reserve, £50,216 .. ..1,335,380
Added intangibles, £221 .. .. 1,335,159
1954-338,026 18,000 16i=248,027 71,999 1,407,158
* After deducting intangibles, now £22,103.
Helped by a vigorous advertising cam-
paign and more stable economic condi-
tions, turnover increased last term, and
declared net earnings were £87,449
stronger—£so,2l6 of the increase was due
to the overpfovision for taxation in 1953
—at £338,026. That was after allowing
£108,851 (up £19,219) for depreciation
and £209,500 (down £31,440) for taxation,
but leaves out of the reckoning a profit
of £55,000 on sale of land which had
become redundant following purchase of
the West Footscray freehold.
After paying the pref. div. enough of
the year’s trading profit remained to
show 16.2 p.c. on the £1,978,637 of ord.
capital, of which £450,000 held by B.D.A.
doesn’t rank for dividends until January,
1955, The div. was maintained at Hi
p.c., and a special bonus of 3| p.c., paid
out of the profit on sale of land, was
added, making 16£ p.c. in all. Over the
last four years divs. averaged 13.4 p.c.
Continued growth and a comfortable
financial position are the features of
balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,291,750 £2,278,881 £2,278,637
Reserves .. .. 990,521 1,252,046 1,429.261
Mortgage .. .. 25,000 25,000
Overdraft, net .. 1,147,738 250,428 385,327
Creditors .. .. 624,916 548.031 800,496
Tax provision .. 246,565 290,879 216,843
Final div. .. 82,131 109,094 161,632
£4,383,621 £4,754,359 £5,297,196
Freeholds .. .. 441,767 646,049 842,076
Plant, etc. .. 267,757 576,602 698,583
Stocks .. .. 2,484,432 2,538,704 2,051,962
Book debts, etc. .. 1,239,665 971,122 1,682,472
Intangibles .. 21,882 22,i03
£4.383,621 £4.754,359 £5,297,196
To meet the year’s net additions of
£196,027 to the book-value of freeholds,
£121,981 to plant and £711,350 to book-
debts, etc., stocks were reduced by
£486,742, the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £134,899 and increased the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£252,465. When the books closed there
was only 6s. 7d. of outside money in
the business for every £1 belonging to
shareholders, excluding uncalled capital.
Though competition, local and over-
seas, is likely to keep margins fine, the
immediate outlook favors a better show-
ing at next balance. The Adelaide mill,
which closed down for a while in 1953,
started up again early last term, and is
now working at or near capacity, and so
is the Sydney weaving-mill. The market
for cotton-canvas and duck has strength-
ened following an increase in the tariff
on these items, and the output of yarns,
drills, jeans, denims, etc., is substantially
higher than a year ago. Also the new
dye-house should soon begin to contribute
to the pool, but probably too late to have
much, if any, effect upon the current
term’s net earnings.
At 10s. 6d. (9s. sd. a year ago) the f.-p.
ss, ords. return a satisfactory 6 p.c. on
a p.c. div. On the same basis the
2s. 6d.-paid contribs. at 6s. lOd, would
return 6.6 p.c. when fully paid. The £1
prefs. at 225. 6d. yield 5.3 p.c. Including
uncalled capital, net tangible cover is
£l3 2s. 9d. prefs, and Bs. Id. ords.
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
pOST-WAR transformation of the
■*- undertaking brightened the outlook
for shareholders by giving earnings an
impetus which the old heavy-jobbing
business of the Clyde Engineering Co.
had failed to provide. After severe
convalescence following the slump of the
early 1930’5, and with war out of the
way, the co. launched out into the
merchandising of engineering and allied
products, as well as manufacture of some
light-engineering and other lines. More
important has been the advent of the
diesel-electric locomotive, now turned
out under agreement with General
Motors Corp. (U.S.), whereby the heavy
section, once a lame-duck, has become
a major contributor to both turnover
and profits of the group.
The organisation now consists of
parent holding co. and the following 10
subsidiaries:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., which took
over the heavy-engineering works at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Paul and Gray Pty. (N.S.W.
and Q.), ship’s chandlers, etc. Clyde Batteries
Pty. (N.S.W.), all types acid batteries. John
Carruthers and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
mechanical, electrical and earth-moving
equipment. Green Point Shipbuilding and
Engineering Pty. (N.S.W.), ship-repairers,
engineers, etc. A. C. Willard and Co.
(N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical and food-
processing plants. Material Handling Pty.,
Ltd. (N.S.W.), distributes products made
under licence from Automotive Transporta-
tion Co. (U.S.), and handles Italian-made
tractors and prefabricated dwellings, etc.
Clyde Sales Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.), has
branches in the principal capital cities, and
is the merchandising outlet for some of the
subsidiaries. Martin and King Industries,
Ltd. (Vic.), motor-body builders and rolling-
stock engineers, etc. Apac Industries, Ltd.
(S.A.), manufacturers of automotive lifting-
jacks, materials-handling and spraying
equipment, etc.
Martin and King Industries —bought last
term, 442,180 of the vendor’s f.-p. ss.
ords. being exchanged for 110,545 Clyde
f.-p. £1 ords. —recently undertook
assembly of the new German small ear,
Volkswagen, which is expected to mean
much so far as future earnings of this
subsidiary are concerned. The Apac
business was taken over after the close of
accounts at a figure not yet broadcast.
Last term all the subsidiaries traded
at a profit. But tractors, fork-lift trucks
and similar heavy equipment were diffi-
cult to move. A “severe decline” in the
volume of naval work reduced earnings
of the Green Point co., and import con-
trols restricted turnover of the Paul and
Gray and Clyde Sales offshoots, but
probably enabled them to earn a profit.
Star performer appears to be Clyde
Engineering, whose orders for diesel-
electric locomotives alone totalled
approximately £3,750,000, which came
from Commonwealth and State railway
authorities, as well as from Pakistan and
Hong Kong.
Because of big savings in running and
other costs, diesel-electric traction has
superseded steam on the railways in the
U.S., and is on the way to doing so in
Australia. The co. says—and its claims
are substantially supported by the Com-
monwealth and Victorian railway com-
missioners in their latest annual reports
—that operating costs of its diesel-electric
locos in service in Australia are only
about 25 p.c. of the cost of operating
steam traction, that faster running-time
and quicker deliveries from point to point
increase earning-capacity and reduce
capital investment in rolling-stock, and
that the bushfire hazard and soot
nuisance are virtually eliminated. Chief
obstacles retarding transition from steam
to diesel-electric are finance and exist-
ing forward contracts, especially in
N. S. Wales, where need for the change
is most urgent.
After allowing £136,510 (up £29,150)
for depreciation and £196,281 (up
£62,731) for taxation, combined net earn-
ings of the group increased by £117,306
for the year to June 30 last, reaching a
record £337,417: —
Clyde Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends , ,
June, Profit. Pref. Ord, Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1951 .. 188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
Added intangibles, £7275 .. .. 799,163
Unexplained reduction, £lBB6 .. 797,277
1952 .. 164,870 5 10 123,744 838,403
1953 . . 220,111 5 10 160,000 898,514
Added intangibles, £26,868 . . 871,646
- Reserves capitalised, £260,000 .. 611,646
Unexplained additions, £1062 . . 612,708
1954 .. 337,417 5 10 178,850 771,275
* After deducting intangibles, now £39,654.
After paying pref. divs. (£30,000), the
balance of the year’s profit was 20.8 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 14.3, 18.6, 12.6,
3.4, 11.3 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1947. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 11.1 p.c.
The div., kept at 10 p.c. for the fourth
year in succession, was sweetened with
£260,000 of bonus-scrip, one for five,
thus making 10 p.c. worth 12 p.c. on ord”
capital as it stood before the gift.
To reduce the overdraft, etc. (down
£717,020), £BOO,OOO of 6 p.c. registered
unsecured notes (redeemable in 1959 and
1961) were issued in March, 1954, and
are earning a lot more than their keep;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Ord 1,300,000 1,300,000 1,670,545
Reserves .. ~ 838,403 898,515 771,275
Notes . . .. '' 800,000
Overdraft, etc. . . 1,469,001 826,570 109,550
Creditors . . . . 1,174,887 878,830 1,430,635
Outside interests.. 6,450
"Final div. .. 50,568 65,000 83,850
£5,432,809 £4,568.915 £5,472,305
Freeholds, etc. .. 938,409 1,009,655 1,262,554
Plant . . ~ 947,333 941,406 1.086,780
Stocks . . .. 2,177.786 - 1,693.591 1,977,554
Debtors . . .. 1,341,424 907,296 890,993
Investments .. 5,975 7,850 139,521
Cash, etc. .. 21,882 9,117 114,903
£5,432,809 £4,568,915 £5,472.305
The all-round growth of assets (except
book-debts) and additions to share-
capital (up £370,545) and the sundry-
creditors item (up £551,805) were due
mainly to expansion of Clyde Engineer-
ing, purchase of Martin and King
Industries and the issue of bonus-shares.
When the books closed there was 15s. 4d.
belonging to noteholders and secured
and other creditors for every £1 of net
tangible assets owned by shareholders in
the business. So it might not be long
before the board begins to think about
issuing more share-capital.
At 295. 6d. (255. 9d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. return 6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The first and second 5 p.c.
cum. prefs. at 17s. and 16s. yield 5.9 p.c.
and 6.3 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £lO 2s. 9d. firsts, £9 2s. 7d.
seconds and 295. 2d. ords.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
/'’WER the last 15 years this organisa-
tion has grown, by absorptions and
otherwise, from a purely ice-cream con-
cern into a group (parent holding co. and
18 subsidiaries) of complementary under-
takings in which manufacture and distri-
bution of dairy produce now predomin-
ate, Part of the manufactured products,
including butter, cheese, condensed milk,
milk-powders and casein, are sold over-
seas, where markets are becoming increas-
ingly competitive, following termination,
or approaching termination, of bulk-
buying contracts with the U.K. The Aus-
tralian market for the balance, or bulk,
of group products is a steadily expanding
one, subject to economic and seasonal
influences, of course.
The subsidiaries, all proprietary con-
cerns, are;
Peters Creameries (Taree), Peters
Creameries (Grafton), Peters Ice Cream
(original operating co. and probably best
profit-earner in the group), Njzer Refrigera-
tion, Dry Ice, Peters Ice Cream (S.A.),
Foley Bros., Waratah Cheese Manufacturing
Co., N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice, N.S.W.
Fresh Food Bakery, N.S.W. Fresh Food
Providores, N.S.W. Fresh Food Cold Stor-
age, Penguin Ice Cream, Peters (Properties
Holding), Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy, Central
Equipment and Dairy Engineering, Haulage
Services, P.C.M. Accounting Services.
Since the beginning of 1951 over
£2,351,000 has been spent on capital
assets, and £747,573 has been written off
for depreciation. Over the same period
share capital has increased by £826,299,
of which £374,517 was bonus-scrip,
£233,065 cash and £218,717 scrip issued
in payment for the 77-year-old Fresh
Food and Ice Co. and for the minority
interest in Foley Bros. Fresh Food,
whose profits for the five years to mid-
-1950 averaged £17,285, distributed about
one-third of Sydney’s milk-supply, and
also traded in bread, ice, ice-cream, fish,
game and poultry and owned Byrne’s
Exhibition Dairy. New subsidiaries were
formed to take over and develop the
various sections of the business.
To help meet the cost of installing new


Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them in
respect of the said property to such in-
surance companies during the year 1954.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1955, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £ 1 per day for every day of
default.
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
W. C. OSBORNE, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send ,to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of -New South
Walds, returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 31st December,
1954, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies ; less
any part of such premiums actually paid
by way of reinsurance to any other in-
surance companies contributing under the
said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1955, subject to a penalty not exceeding.
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
W. C. OSBORNE. Secretary,
213 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
f EVERY YEAR
1 A BONUS YEAR.
PROGRESS
AND
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
36in.
'
'
&
■NT
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
£Z9d»
I
mm
iiiis
m&m
KffißSMwS
:■-
•• V d, : ';
s :
■
■
s»«
mg
IH9III SIH9I3M
Time’s right . . film’s right . .
all set for some fine indoor
snapshots. Be sure you keep
a permanent photographic
record of your youngster as
he grows up; in the years
ahead you’ll find hours of
pleasure in your album,
when you use KODAK FILM
‘it gets the picture ’
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
milk-treatment plant—much of
Fresh Food’s existing equipment
is out of date —and provide for
further expansion of other units
of the group, the holding co.
issued 425,043 new £1 shares at
par to those on its register at
October 22 last. That lifted paid
capital to £2,125,216, on which
last term’s rate of distribution
(8£ p.c.) will call for £180,643,
or £10,572 more profit than was
claimed for the year to June 30,
1954. Prospects of more than
enough being earned to pay
Sj p.c. for the current term look
reasonably bright at the moment.
Last term turnover of the
group (over £20,000,000) was
about the same as for the
previous year. A contraction of
£1,700,000 in dairy output, due
mainly to floods and drought on
the N.S.W. North Coast, was
offset by increased sales of the
ice-cream and other units of
the organisation. After making
liberal allowance for depreciation
(£226,063, up £49,838), setting
aside £70,390 (up £7161) for
taxation and sending £10,174
(down £12,715) to the staff fund,
net earnings were £9400 stronger
at £170,071:
Re-
June, Profit. f—> —Dividends •, serves.*
£ £ £
Parent and Subsidiaries.
From subsids, £567,135 . . 1,098,267
1951.. 94,651 9 p.c. = 93,338 1,099,580
Unexp’d reduction, £5792. . 1,093,788
1952.. 101,434 7j* p.c. = 112,218 1,083,004
Excess book-value over cost
shares subsids., £101,324 1,184,328
Sundry reserve adjustment,
£114,819 1,299,147
Tax refunds, £65,363 .. 1,364,510
1953. .160,671 8 p.c. = 136,014 1,389,167
Addition to cap. res. £2025 1,391,192
Less unexp’d ded’tion£7BB 1,390,404
1954. .170,071 81 p.c. = 144,515 1,415,960
* Subject to intangibles of £36,039 at
30/6/’54.
The £170,071 was 10 p.c. on
average capital as against 9.4,
6.9 and 9.1 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The Grafton
creamery recorded a loss of
£11,913 (down £2731), which was
allowed for in the profit claimed.
The board expressed its con-
fidence in the outlook by lifting
the div. from 8 p.c. to p.c.
Continued growth is the
keynote of balance-sheet figures:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,700,173 £1,700,173
Reserves . . .. 1,389,167 1,415,960
Mortgage .. .. 136,941 133,876
Overdraft . . . ; 1,926,114 1,723,524
Creditors, etc. . . 1,128,542 1,194,044
Inter-co. balance. . 70,611 93,694
Tax provision . . 143,308 143,386
Final div. .. 76,508 85,009
£6,570,364 £6,489,666
Freeholds, etc.* .. 1,538,607 1,654,813
Plant .. ‘ . . 2,100,366 2,349,930
Under constructiont 113,499 206,347
Stocks .. . . 1,365,645 876,728
Book debts . . 1,111,196 1,272,388
Shares other cos.. . 119,612 81,721
Govt, securities .. 185,500 11,700
Intangibles .. 36,039 36,039
£6,570,364 £6,489,666
* Includes leaseholds £5193, 1952 ;
£23,573, 1953; £24,279, 1954.
+ Buildings and plant.
To help meet net additions total-
ling £619,810 to freeholds (up
£116,206), plant, etc. (up
£342,412) and book-debts (up
£161,192), as well as clip
£202,590 off the overdraft;"stocks
were reduced by £488,817, Gov-
ernment securities by £173,800,
and £65,502 was added to the
amount coming to trade
creditors. When the books closed
there was 19s. 7d. (20s. Bd. a year
ago) belonging to mortgagees,
the bank and sundry creditors,
etc., fpr every £1 of shareholders’
funds in the business.
Doubtful of the extent to
which trends in overseas markets
may retard the co. s overall
profit-expansion, investors price
the f.-p, £1 shares at 275. to
return 6.3 p.c. on an 8£ p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is
325. lid.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in this
holding co., through which
the public is interested in the
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Tavua field (Fiji), have fared
well to date, and recent develop-
ments on a jointly held area
adjoining the eastern boundary
of Emperor leases hold out
encouraging possibilities.
To avoid heavy Government
bleeding by way of Australian
income tax, the holding co.
adopted a policy of reducing
paid capital instead of paying
dividends during the eight years
to end 1951. The amount of
capital returned was £858,100
(9s. per 10s. share), reducing the
figure to £95,700 in Is. shares.
Total payments to shareholders
in dividends and return of capital
to December, 1951, was
£1,428,500, or 14s. lid. per
original 10s. share.
Further reduction of capital
was considered inadvisable, so
divs. began to flow again in
December, 1952, when 6d. a
share was paid, followed by Is.
a share in January, 1954, and
another Is. a share on December
15 last.
After allowing for deprecia-
tion (£19,063, down £7806), taxa-
tion, etc., (£55,770, up £6814)
and joint expenditure on develop-
ment (£13,447), the operating co.
netted £94,317 (up £12,625) for
the year to June 30 last. The
£94,318 was equal to 11.83 d.
per Is. share in the holding co.,
whose Is. div. (100 p.c.) called
for £95,700.
The operating co.’s mill treated
an extra 2590 tons of slightly
higher-grade ore, from which
more gold and silver were
recovered;
Year ' Gold
to Treated Head Re- Silver
June Ore, Value, covered. Recov’d,
30, Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
1951. .153,847 8.32 58,887 20,020
1952. .151,000 7.69 51,666 16,015
1953. .156,982 7.97 57,221 14,677
1954. .159,572 8.15 60,507 16,465
Excluding development and taxa-
tion charges, mining, milling and
general costs were 3s. less at 68s.
1.9 d. per ton, due mainly to lower
fuel-oil prices and absence of
further outlay on account of
hurricane repairs. Recovery was
slightly better at 91.1 p.c.
Ore reserves at June 23 last
were put at 789,000 tons, averag-
ing B.3dwt., measured, and
250,000 tons, averaging 7.5dwt.,
indicated; a total of 1,039,000
tons, or about years’ work for
the mill at last term’s rate of
throughput, with prospects of
more pay-ore being developed at
depth.
In the adjoining jointly-owned
prospecting leases the drill cut no
pay-ore in the Waikatakata area.
But two of the five deep holes
drilled in the Lololevu area have
indicated the possible existence
of a good tonnage of rich ore
(core assay loz.) east of
Emperor’s Nos. 8 and 9 levels.
The intention is to test the newly-
indicated ore zone by cross-
cutting from Emperor’s new
internal shaft, now being sunk
from No. 8 level to give access
to the downward continuation of
the co.’s own ore-body. General-
manager Cayzer says “it appears
that the eastern ore-bodies
recently found in Emperor
ground continue more-or-less
regularly down into the explora-
tion area, where the effect of the
mudstones is an unknown
factor,” It might be a year or
two, however, before “concrete
results” are obtained.
„ Including stores (£270,789), the
operating co.’s current assets
totalled £648,823 when the books
closed. Current liabilities
amounted to only £42,268.
The market prices the holding
co.’s Is. share at 17s. (Bs. two
years ago), thus valuing the
undertaking at £1,626,900.
No details concerning the
nickel deposit which Gold and
Exploration Minerals says it has
found in the north-east of South
Australia have yet been broad-
cast. However, a new co.,
Nickel Mines of Australia, Ltd.,
has been registered to test the
find, and one English and two
other Australian concerns are
reported to be interested in the
venture —they are Copper and
Alloys, Ltd. (England), and
Geosurveys of Australia, Ltd.,
and C. W. Smith and Co.
(Sydney).


Wild Company on Heard Island
ANTARCTIC
MEMORIES
By V. J. H.
THE Australian National
Antarctic Research Expe-
dition will abandon its
base at Heard Island when
the last party is withdrawn early
next year.
The first expedition to this
lonely, icy island landed in
December, 1947, from R.A.N.
tank-landing ship Labuan. Since
then the teams of 14-odd have
been relieved every year, and
the continuous recording, every
three hours, of weather-condi-
tions, and the . other scientific
work, have proceeded without
interruption.
It’s a great place to live. A
year is hardly enough—you just
get to know the place, where to
go, how fo get there, how to
beat the weather and the diffi-
cult glacier-country, when it’s
time to leave.
We landed on Heard after a
rough three-weeks’ trip from
Melbourne on the Norwegian
sealer Tottan. And what a trip
it was! Cramped, stuffy,
smelly quarters, hardly room
for the lot of us to eat in com-
fort those who could strict
water - rationing ; pot - washing
in the smallest ship’s-galley
I’ve ever seen, while the 500-
tonner rolled and tossed with
more gusto than a corvette.
And, all the time, from the
south-west, a mighty wind
roared its mournful symphony
in the rigging as Tottan
thumped and bumped her way
through endless craggy, white-
veiled seas; down across the
Roaring Forties and into the
Screaming Fifties.
But it was worth it, every
sickening bump.
On February 26, 1952, at
about seal-pup dawn, Tottan
felt her way carefully through
a thick fog, looking for Heard.
A sudden break in the swirling
dankness, and there it was,
towering white and infinitely
bleak in the clouds, the black
scar of the South Barrier
stiffening its icy back. After a
thousand miles of dead-reckon-
ing navigation, Tottan had
missed the island by only a few
hundred yards. Then the cloud
rolled back like a giant theatre-
curtain. We knew we were there.
The ship turned and threaded
her way along the north coast,
while we stood out in freezing
rain and watched the glaciers
and frowning ice - buttresses
glide past as we headed up to
the expedition base-camp at
Atlas Cove. I can’t remember a
lonelier scene than the base-
camp that morning: a cluster of
buildings huddled between four
tall radio-masts set in rhombic
pattern, with a bank of wet grey
cloud almost touching them,
dripping great blobs of freezing
rain like a giant sponge. And
in the distance, the ranks of
ice, pale-blue and grey, of the
Baudissen Glacier.
This seemingly dreary, deso-
late place was to be our* home
for at least 12 months. Most of
us became very fond of it. Two
stayed for ever.
Unloading started almost as
soon as the anchor thundered
out of the hawse-pipe. Huge
rubber pontoons were inflated
and lifted over the side, wooden
decking lashed to them ; motor-
boats swung outboard to tow
the pontoons, and the game was
on. All day the pontoons
shuttled back and forth be-
tween ship and beach, yawing
wildly on the inward trip, heavy
with cargo, bouncing and
punching waves aside on the
outward, while a vicious, gusty
wind charged from the glacier-
clad funnel of the Jacka Valley
and thrashed the workboats
with knife-edges of spray.
Next day we saw a Heard
Island miracle. A cloudless sky,
calm seas, and an air of in-
vigorating clearness. Big Ben’s
mighty dome so vividly clear
that it seemed we could touch
the top, 9000 ft. high and many
miles away, with crooked ridges
reaching towards us like broken
fingers—and the glaciers, blue
and green masses of broken ice
sweeping to the sea. At night,
with a near full-moon riding
high, the cold stillness could
almost be felt, and Big Ben
seemed to glow white-hot above
the shadowed glaciers, while
occasionally a feather of smoke
rose from the active crater of
Mawson Peak.
The calm stayed for four days.
I doubt whether our muscles
would have lasted any longer.
Both parties, the old and new,
worked like Trojans to unload
the ship while the weather was
kind, and finally the last pon-
toon-load came ashore. Both
parties assembled for a last
farewell, and as darkness crept
over the island the old team
climbed into their boats and
soon disappeared behind Wharf
Point.
We were alone.
But were we? With the ship
gone we had time to look
around. The place was
crowded.
Seabirds beautiful light-
mantled sooty albatrosses glid-
ing along the cloud-fringed
cliffs, untroubled by high winds
and vicious eddies; giant
petrels, long-winged and grace-
ful in flight, duck-bellied and
ugly on the ground ; big brown
skua-gulls standing on top of
the moss-hummocks, wingtips
touching above their heads,
cruel beaks open as they
screeched their defiant call;
cape-petrels, delicately checked
blue-and-black wings fluttering
around the remains of an ele-
phant-seal on the beach ; fairy-
prions flitting their erratic way
along the cliffs, chased by the
ever-hungry skua-gulls; and
sometimes, but not often, a pair
of Arctic terns —black caps,
maroon necks and bodies of
pale grey—flying with a swift
downward sweep of their long,
tapered wings, followed by a
long glide.
Thousands of penguins lived
within easy walking-distance of
camp. Rockhoppers claimed
the caves and volcanic funnels
along the cliffs of Atlas Cove,
In their dark, smelly holes they
bred their chicks, fought and
squabbled without ceasing
throughout the summer, and
when winter came hopped
solemnly down the cliff-face
(when they slipped and tumbled
to the bottom they stood up and
waddled into the sea, uninjured
by a fall that would kill a man)
and swam away, the sentries
withdrawing when the main
body cleared the rookery.
On wild, rugged Corinth
Head lived a huge colony of
macaroni - penguins. Crested
with red-and-yellow feathers,
these little fellows took no
notice of us until we approached
their nests. Then their little red
eyes glared at us and they
rushed forward to peck vigor-
ously at our legs and beat us
with their hard flippers—and
those flippers hurt.
There were other rookeries,
of course. The main body of
gentoos lived across the flat
Nullarbor Plain, near South-
west Bay. Another lot occupied
a clear space on the top of a
hill overlooking West Bay, and
overflowed down the sides—it
looked like a huge apartment-
building. From West Bay to
West Cape, about five miles
along the almost-sheer sides of
Laurens Peninsula, lived thous-
ands of macaronis.
The macs and rockhoppers
left the island in winter, but the
gentoos stayed: why,
I could never
imagine. It couldn’t
have been from
choice. They huddled
together in the
shelter of big rocks,
and stuck it out in
mute and unprotest-
ing misery while the
big winds raged and thun-
dered around them, often bury-
ing them completely in snow. I
once came across a group of
them, with snow frozen solid
in a 4in. coating on their bodies
and long icicles hanging from
their beaks. Some were dead,
smothered when ice formed
over their nostrils. They always
looked completely forlorn and
utterly uncomfortable. Perhaps
they weren’t.
But the time to see penguins
in action was in the late
summer afternoon, with hun-
dreds coming ashore after fish-
ing. t
At South-west Bay huge
rollers pound ceaselessly at the
black-sand beach, even in calm
weather. From the top of a
group of erratics (boulders
brought down by long-receded
glaciers) I’ve watched them for
hours on end. A foaming mass
of water surging ashore —and
suddenly a black head bobs up
in the foam, turning from side
to side as if the penguin were
enjoying the sense of speed.
When the water is shallow
enough for it to stand it rises
awkwardly to its feet and begins
running—at least, waddling,
with flippers outstretched—as
fast as its short legs will allow.
The next wave with its cargo
of penguins comes charging at
the beach, and the penguin
waddles even faster, always
managing to keep just ahead
until it reaches dry land. I
never saw one overtaken.
Then, when it reaches the
beach it joins a group of newly
arrived birds and they have a
yarn together, smoothing their
white fronts with their beaks.
Two or three leave and struggle
up the hill to the rookery,
stopping frequently to talk in
low, clucking tones.
Not all of them manage to
get home. The only enemy they
have in the sea is the leopard-
seal. It’s an enemy to respect.
Long and slim, perfectly stream-
lined, with a sleek head and a
mouthful of vicious yellow
teeth, the leopard-seal lies in
wait for home-bound penguins
and rarely misses a catch,
There’s a sudden flurry of spray
and the .leopard’s head rises
above the water with a penguin
caught fast. Then there’s a
furious flailing back and forth
until the skin is ripped off, and
the leopard’s head disappears as
it dives to eat the body.
Early one morning I met a
penguin with one side of its
chest ripped wide open. Its
whole body heaved and strained
as it struggled to draw breath,
looking straight ahead in dumb
agony. With silent sympathy I
went on my way. When I came
back a few minutes later it was
dead.
In the breeding-season, early
in summer, the beaches swarm
with elephant-seals. First ashore
are the beachmasters, monsters
who emerge from the sea after
feeding all winter, bursting with
blubber and bad temper.
It’s not yet known with any
certainty whether the beach-
' masters establish themselves on
a section of beach, a harem of
cows then forming around them,
or whether the cows assemble
and the big bulls fight for them.
From my own admittedly inex-
pert observations I would say
that both things happen; the
cows form a harem around a
bull and the bulls (there are
always a few who miss out on a
harem) then fight among them-
selves for possession. Certainly,
when the harems had grown to
a fair - size the bulls shuffled
around the beaches until the
general position was stabilised.
A fight between two of these
lads is worth watching.
Anything up to 15ft. long and
weighing nearly 5 tons, the two
are fairly matched. First there’s
the challenge. Large watery-
brown eyes glare furiously,
short fat trunks swell to unbe-
lievable rippling size, ugly
mouths open to let out an ice-
shaking roar, followed, usually,
by a horrible guggling belch.
The two begin to move to-
wards each other: a few yards
at a time at first, with rests for
challenging in between. Then
faster; until, over the last few
yards, they’re leaping forward
at remarkable speed, lifting their
huge bodies high off the ground
and hurling themselves together
with sickening thumps, slashing
at neck and shoulders with
stumpy teeth.
Then a trial of strength, like
two men straining against each
other with gripped hands,
elbows resting on a table. But
these big fellows are slashing
all the time, until the weaker
bull begins to give ground. With
an intimidating roar the victor
raises himself for a final pile-
driving whack, and the loser
turns for the sea, where he
skulks for hours with only his
head and tail out of the water,
looking like some monstrous
parrot.
Meanwhile the seal-pups are
being born, little black bundles
of wet fur, yapping and snuffling
and scratching themselves with
their flippers. They lie helpless
for two or three days before
taking nourishment. A lot die,
either squashed by the beach-
masters as they bulldoze their
way across the harem, or killed
by the ever-present, ever-
watchful skua-gulls ...
No —we weren’t alone.
And now it’s all to be
abandoned. The build-
ings will be empty and
the wind will moan like
-weird organ-music in
the radio-masts and
shake loose the long
aerials that gave me so
much trouble. There
will be no lone figures
tramping across the
glaciers. Big Ben will be
clear sometimes, but nobody will
be there to see it, or to hear the
avalanches thundering off the
cliffs on a still night. The never-
ending fight for survival by the
birds and animals will go on
unheeded.
It does seem a pity.


The WESTING EMO
By
DAVIP
CAMPBELL
On Christmas Day in ’ninety-two,
Then a mere nipper, Crooked Mick,
Tiring of tea and cockatoo,
Set out to bake an emu chick.
But emus on the western plain,
Brought up on fencing-wire and tin,
Are apt to take the personal line
So much disdained by next-of-kin,
And it fell out when Mangy Bill,
Late heeler from the cattle camps,
Slunk up to lay her by the heel,
She kicked him fair between the lamps,
And sighting Mick behind the shed
Shaving his forearm with the axe
She flattened out her . cretin head
And followed it towards the sticks.
But western men are not so green
They’ll let an emu show them up;
And leading Shudder in between
His knees (the horse that won the Cup,
Or would have if the game were straight),
Mick pointed him towards the emu,
And taking in a five-bar gate,
Lit out to muster up the menu —
Which is the way the race'began
At daylight on the Speewah course;
The {eggy pullet in the van
And Mick behind upon the horse.
Ah, Christmas Day, when Christian men
Sit in their braces reading papers;
When private bars are full by ten
And babies howl in wet diapers!
It happened as they broke the door
That Christmas on the Speewah plain:
Mick wheeled the bird around the bore
And turned her pacing down the Main.
Then dogs uncurled, and children ran,
And ample Greeks took up the view;
And old men shivering in the sun
Recalled the instances they knew;
And loungers propping either wall
Of the town’s fifty-one hotels,
Stood up and simply let them fall
(Neglectful of their gins and grills)
On powdered girls in summer frocks
Arranging curls in brewery-mirrors;
While the galahs’ unstable flocks
Carried the betting to the shearers.
But, clawing back the tar and metal
To fall in purple storms of rain,
The emu whistling like a kettle,
Vanished like virtue from the plain,
/• r>
Although at dusk the scarlet pea,
Hearing the horseman in pursuit,
Ran like a lizard up a tree
And -clung there trembling, to the root.
I do not know . . . Some will deny
They’ve noses at a butchers’ rally . . •
I hate the man who tells a lie . , .
They say that Mick’s a willy-willy:
And that the lightning-speed at which
He travelled through the never-never
Began the drought and dug the ditch
Yet others call the Darling River;
And that displacing church and crown ,
The emu slipped into the mirage;
And Mick to get his dinner down,
Is planning an atomic bap-rage.
But this I know to be the case
(Though western men prefer a port):
A roving-coverage of the race
Is in our columnist’s report,
Who, starting as a country hack,
Rose quickly to the leading page
By riding on the emu’s back
And lunching in Micks saddle-bag;
And writes, "When taken by the leg.
The bird’s recourse is sleight-of-hand
And laying in the way an egg
Which Michael fries upon the sand.
While from the Desk and Seven Mile
The breathless paragraphs begin:
“The emu ate a rusty file
For breakfast. Confident to win.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hnt and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. RoSS pritji Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
KOOM-ONIsT KATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE”
Telephones;
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
i
t.
i
■
One of Them Wonders
"Pilot Error”—or Whose?
By "FREDDIE"
THE Vickers Viscount crash
in Victoria recently, and a
number of crashes on inter-
national air-routes, involv-
ing multi-piston-engined and
multi-jet airliners, raises the ques-
tion : What causes these
accidents? N
Expert opinion has been con-
centrated on specific answers,
sometimes for a considerable
period, and some of the theories
offered, on a popular level, have
bordered on the bizarre. But
where a verdict has been possible,
based on tangible evidence, in a
surprising number of cases this
verdict has been “pilot-error”;
the more surprising since the
pilots concerned were invariably
old hands with long records of
safe flying.
This fact makes one wonder
whether pilots have too much to
do these days. Too many gadgets
to watch and depend on, in addi-
tion to watching their flying.
There are, of course, other
factors. London “Times,” in an
aviation supplement brought out
last year to celebrate 50 years of
power-flight, listed a few of
them, in an article specially
written by a representative of a
firm which specialised in the
insurance side of aviation.
Opinions from such a source, to
my mind, carry more weight than
the usual “authoritative state-
ments” by chairmen of airline
companies, manufacturers or
politicians.
It was pointed out, pithily
enough, that a fair idea of the
improved safety of commercial
flying could be gathered from
the fall in premiums. Tables
showing the downward trend of
premiums over the years made
the point more clearly than
would be possible in columns of
closely knit argument. That was
the overall picture. But there
were “disquieting aspects” of
more recent developments and
tendencies, which, it seems, the
underwriters concerned are
watching pretty closely: the
behavior of materials under the
stresses of high speed—not nearly
as predictable as publicists would
have us believe and the
tendency of certain airlines to
reduce air-crews, for reasons of
economy, therefore increasing
the probability of human error,
mainly through fatigue.
The last is related to my own
point of “too many gadgets”;
but, in my opinion, this could
be pushed a little further. Is it
not possible (apart from the
grave points raised in the
“Times” article) that a quite
important cause of the trouble
lies in long-range, deep-seated
“designer-error” ?
Apart from personal experi-
ence as a pilot, and a lively
interest in anything connected
with the theory and practice of
flying dating from early
adolescence, I do not really
consider myself an authority on
the subject; and if these cogita-
tions bring better-informed
opinions into the open, cogitator
will be grateful. Perhaps, like
war, the whole subject is too
important to be left to the
experts.
Early in aviation pilots flew
“by the seat of their pants,”
Changes in a plane’s altitude, in
an engine’s note, in general air-
borne well-being were instantly
conveyed via that sensitive part
of the anatomy. As cockpits
became crowded with instru-
ments seat-of-pants flying was
looked on with little trust as
obsolete and even dangerous in
commercial aviation.
Yet giant planes carrying all
available up-to-the-minute flying-
aids to ease the pilot’s burden
are coming to grief now and
then through failure of the
human element with the
number and variety of navigation
and other aids increasing.
There’s a law as old as life
that any disused faculty becomes
atrophied and dies.
The recent crashes may
indicate that aviation scientists
are going to breed a race of
pilots leaning so heavily on
automatic and mechanical aids
that their flying-sense and “feel”
will become atrophied and lost.
Early in the century over-
weighty engines and spindly air-
frames demanded the clichdd
“perfect landings.” L ess
meticulous arrivals were usually
accompanied by almost complete
structural failure. As under-
carriages became strengthened
and buffered with oleo-legs and
balloon-tyres it was noted that
the standard of landings
suffered.
Substitute “instruments” for
“undercarriages” and a parallel
is apparent. It’s human to be
only as good as you must be.
There was an appalling loss
of American aircraft when the
first groups of Allied pilots had
to find their way about the facp
of Australia, deprived of many
of the directional aids then avail-
able in the United States. The
Australian accident-percentage
was much smaller. So much for
leaning on something that sud-
denly isn’t there.
With increasing flying-aids
goes greater complication of
cockpit equipment. A long-
distance plane is controlled,
puppet-like, in a web of naviga-
tional strings, and the pilot must
watch his end of the “strings” as
well as his engine and flight-
instruments.
Keeping an eye on all “the
works” will call for an increasing
part of his attention, adding to
his fatigue at the landing-end of
long flights, and to cumulative
fatigue over a period. Admitted,
the crew shares his duties; but
the captain’s is the overriding
responsibility. And the accidents
still occur.
After a recent landing disaster
the second pilot, flight-engineer,
and even witnesses on the
ground, all gave evidence that
they had noticed the big plane’s
descent was too steep and the
check belated. The captain gave
no evidence that he had been
aware of the danger in his
approach. Fatigue is manifested
in experienced pilots, not so
much by positive error, as by
momentary negation of
judgment.
Any step towards simplifying
the responsibilities of captains
of big aircraft is on the right
track. On the wrong track are
designers who lazily leave this
chore to some future and more
energetic mind. Simplification
is hard mental labor in any
trade.
The ruthless air itself has
moulded high-speed modem
planes to streamlined shapes of
beauty. A pity the outer element
can’t blow through the cockpit
and the pawnshop-clutter of
what, in these days, and in the
light of all other air-development,
should be junk. At speed the
stuff we breathe is intolerant of
elaboration.
Gazing awestruck at the
Wurlitzer-organ-keyboard array
of switches, knobs, bits and
gimmicks confronting the pilot
in an American bomber, the late
Bluey Truscott said; “Thank
God Spitfires are made to fight
in—not muck about in! ”
The youngsters following
today in Truscott’s war-time pro-
fession are also lucky in the
comparative simplicity of fighter
cockpits. Fighter - pilots must
keep their, eyes out of the plane
and concentrate on their flying.
One present-day advantage is
that jet-engines allow of greatly
simplified engine - instrument
panels. Even in four-jet air-
liners the engine instruments are
comparatively few. And when
our newest power-source is
peacefully diverted a plane’s pro-
pulsion, condensed into an
unobtrusive single installation,
will be truly uncomplicated.
If a flash of inspired revolu-
tionary invention could match
this progress with similar simpli-
fication of the rapidly increasing
cockpit- and ground-equipment
required by high-speed global
aviation flying might again
become “Like riding a bike.”
Crews would be more easily
trained and would be good for
years longer. Fares and freights
would drop with the lower costs
of operating airlines. A pay-off
all round. Here’s hoping!
Talking of bikes, it’s worth
remembering that, like those
humble vehicles, the essential
behavior of all aeroplanes is the
same, irrespective of size, shape,
speed and whether they are
pulled by one engine or a dozen.
Like the Wrights’ 1904 bi-
plane, a six-jet streamlined giant
will stall and drop if flown too
slowly, will disconcertingly re-
turn to earth if taken off too
hastily, and will object strenu-
ously to any other misuse of
controls or momentary negation
of judgment by the pilot.
The air now, as then, with-
draws its support if its peculiar
demands are not met in every
particular.
So it seems that as long as
planes carry their controllers
these men must strive to retain
full human judgment, mental
flexibility, flying-sense and
“feel,” resisting any tendency
to become photo-electric cells.
That way would lie an instrU-
ment-lulled attitude of mind
leading to “inexplicable” acci-
dents. Nature has a way of
knocking down mechanical
invincibles.
It might be good for pilots
growing up in the inflexible
roufine of long-distance
“heavies” to have a refreshing
toss round occasionally in light
aerobatic planes to retain
“touch” and sensitivity. Heard
somewhere that Kingsford
Smith was a believer in this. It
is certain that “Smithy” never
missed any point affecting his
own fitness to cope with any
contretemps in the air; and it
paid dividends.
Before the days of gyroscopic
Sperry blind-flying instruments,
“Smithy” once ploughed all
night through pitch-black
Pacific storms and wrestling-
ring turbulence, keeping a
steady keel and a miraculously
accurate course with only an
old spirit-level type turn-and-
bank indicator and a wildly
swinging compass-needle to go
by.
The virtuoso had an extra-
ordinarily developed air-sense
and a mighty sensitive seat to
his pants. So did Hinkler. The
flair lives on in men like Sir
Gordon (P. G.) Taylor, and is
assiduously cultivated by New
Guinea charter-pilots.
Near the other end of the
scale, four or five years ago,
were the ground-controllers,
who, hypnotised by the infalli-
bility of radio-beams, auto-
matically and progressively
plotted an airliner as O.K. and
on-course when, in fact, the plane
had crashed against a moun-
tain many miles off-course.
Atrophied thinking; which
means no thinking.
Invited into the cockpit
during a recent ocean trip, I was
impressed by the calm, relaxed
atmosphere in the office-sized
compartment as the big plane
thundered steadily through the
night.
The first-officer was sitting
back at ease keeping a general
eye on Likewise a couple
of his colleagues on the
“bridge.” The captain was off-
watch getting his sleep. The
automatic pilot kept height and
course with inhuman precision.
Riding the smooth night-air
almost without vibration we
could have been in a city office.
Only the muffled thunder of the
four great engines reminded
you that the craft was hurtling,
bullet-accurate,. at its destina-
tion.
It seemed fantastic to think
of such a ship and crew having
an accident. Yet identical planes
and similar topline crews, do
crash on the" world’s main air-
routes.
The astronomical figures cover-
ing mileages and passengers
carried safely on each route,
every year, simply highlight the
occasional failure of the human
element and point to a cause
outside the cockpit—the human
element at the drawing-board.
Even assuming that aviation
is rocketing through an uneasy
phase preliminary to the
entirely ground-controlled push-
button atom-powered air-trans-
port, the ground-pilot of the
seeable future will have exactly
the same problems and could,
conceivably, make the same
errors if control remains over-
intricate.
To suggest simplification of
flying aids doesn’t necessarily
imply a./ nostalgic desire to
return to picturesque stick-and-
wire barnstorming, nor any
desire to shelve safety-devices.
What is in mind is the collating
of necessary aids in simple
“foolproof” master-instruments.
Nothing that isn’t simple is
foolproof—using “foolproof” in
The ordinary everyday sense.
And let nobody say there
isn’t enough genius behind-
scenes in aviation today to take
a side-glance at this problem
and solve it.
Passing thought—we learned
to make planes by studying the
shape of birds. Maybe we
could learn something about
guiding planes by studying the
behavior of birds —their migra-
tions and so on. Some of them
fly international routes on regu-
lar schedules and hit their des-
tinations bang-on, with a mini-
mum of external aid, so far as
any competent human observer
can see. They’ve got something,
if we could only pry it loose
from them.
There’s been so much genius
in the making of aeroplanes
right through their history that
this lover of the contraptions
still feels there’s something a bit
miraculous about every one of
’em. I’ll risk a clout from the
nearest sailor and say planes
are more beautifully in har-
mony with their element than
ships, which, of course, must
compromise with two elements.
When you first took to the
air you were tense and sweaty
in a grim fight to keep your
primitive training-plane right-
side-up. When you discovered
it wanted to fly right-side-up,
and needed only token guidance,
you learned your first lesson and
relaxed.
Later, when you cockily felt
you’d experienced all the joys
flying had to offer, you had your
first flight in a Spitfire; and
your exhilaration on landing
was spiced with humility. The
Spit seemed to do your think-
ing for you like a superbly
trained stockhorse. It seemed,
in its making, to have been
touched by more than human
hands.
Like the thoroughbred planes
of yesterday and today, those of
tomorrow will also breathe this
quality.
So, after all, hats off to the
designers—but their creations
must be simple,


On John Hetherington's Biography
The Making of Blarney
By "EK DUM"
IF is a brave author who
essays to write the biography
of a man just dead. Those
who deal even in remote
periods of Australian history
know the heat that can be
generated about injustice which
some may believe has been done.
There are, of course, a few
cases in which the thing can be
done with profit to the reader,
and that of Field-Marshal Sir
Thomas Blarney was one of
them. There was a great deal
that could usefully be said at
once about him, because most
people, even those immediately
under his command, knew so
little of his background, his
training and his antecedents.
Still, writing about so contro-
versial a figure calls for heroic
qualities and nice judgment.
John Hetherington, one of the
best of the correspondents pro-
duced by World War 11, seems to
have both. His Blarney
(Cheshire), though it is not by
any means a definitive work, will
probably stand as an authority
for a good many years to come.
Sir Thomas Blarney was so
involved in the intimate history
of the last two decades that there
is still much that cannot be
written —because of the require-
ments of secrecy, because the
documents are not available, or
for other reasons. But Mr.
Hetherington’s assembly of
material is adequate for its pur-
pose.
It very skilfully fills a gap, and
does something to exorcise the
false picture which so many
hostile daily newspapers and
carpers sought to build up dur-
ing the war of a sort of resur-
rected Falstaff, too too
much overweight, a “blimp” by
nature. Even those who had
most cause to dislike or fear him
would scarcely have subscribed
to the all-too-popular concep-
tion, of which he was, in fact,
the complete antithesis.
A distinguished English officer
once remarked to Brudenell
White that Blarney —then black-
haired and in his youthful prime
—seemed very mature in his
approach to military problems.
To which White replied: “1
don’t think he is a youthful
officer. I think he is the ghost
of Clausewitz on leave from the
hereafter.”
Monash was the authority for
that story; but when he told it
he reflected that White was only
partly right and did not go far
enough. For, he said, Blarney
had qualities of command denied
to most staff-officers of high and
thoughtful quality (including
Clausewitz), and he wondered
what would have been Blarney’s
fate if he had been ten years
older when World War I broke
out and had had more regimental
and command experience.
As Mr. Hetherington quotes
him, Monash paid tribute to
Blarney’s exemplary loyalty, and
wrote of him as “a man of
inexhaustible industry,” on
whom he was “able to lean” in
“times of trouble, stress and
difficulty, to a degree which was
an inexpressible comfort to me.”
But Monash also wrote;
He possessed a mind cultured far
above the average, widely informed,
alert and prehensile. He had an
infinite capacity for taking pains. A
staff-college graduate, but not on that
account a pedant, he was thoroughly
versed in the technique of staff work,
and in the minulia; of all procedure.
I owe him a great debt of grati-
tude which cannot be repaid. Our
temperaments adapted themselves to
each other in a manner that was
ideal. He had an extraordinary
faculty for self-effacement, posing
always as the instrument to give effect
to my policies and decisions....
Some day the orders which he drafted
for the long series of history-making
military operations upon which we
collaborated will become a model tor
staff-colleges and schools for mihtary
instruction. They were accurate, lucid
in language, perfect in detail, and
always an exact interpretation of my
intention.
This sums-up the basis of
Blarney’s military character. He
had in his best years a clarity of
sight and apprehension denied to
most men. He had the very rare
gift of being able to see, in his
mind’s eye, large terrains and to
assemble in his mind in advance
the essentials of large operations
and reduce them to writing in a
lucid, orderly and economical
form, in words that could not be
misunderstood.
That he had the gift of clarity
of expression, which was a great
asset to him in his staff work,
was a cross to be borne in con-
tact with the public. He was apt
to state a situation to the press
with the same ruthless care for
accuracy and disregard for
trimmings or palliations that he
applied in military-planning and
-appreciation. The very lucidity
of his phrasing and economy of
words gave some of his public
pronouncements the force of a
blow between the eyes.
His relationships in the Army
and with the British Army were
clouded through the same qual-
ity, and also because of his seem-
ing incapable of compromising
on an opinion on administration
dr procedure once formed or of
retreating from a contest once
he had entered it. He was cer-
tainly a positive character, who
acted implicitly according to his
position and purpose.
As a staff officer, as Monash
said, he was self-effacing —a
highly efficient echo of his com-
mander. As a commantier he
expected exactly the same quality
of work and type of service in
a high degree from all who
served under him, even at the
highest levels. And there were
few Blarneys among them. He
sometimes chose men who were
ready to be subservient and con-
genial rather than those who were
efficient. He remembered those
who had contributed to his
education and rise.
He described Brudenell White,
who had been his early mentor
(as Mr. Hetherington writes), as
“a noble character.” His eye
would light when Monash s
name was mentioned, and he
would dilate on his excellences
in concrete terms that were not
just praise—on his old chief s
cultivated instinct, his sense of
balance, his prescience and the
absorptive powers of his mind,
When he looked at the
men who fougfit according to
his plans he could express him-
self in terms of reason in a way
whichwent beyond mere
criticism. There was always
meat in any opinion he
expressed.
After Pozieres, he wrote
(again quoting from Hethering-
ton) :
Our men are, in my opinion, the
finest fighting men in all the world.
Pozieres has established them in
France, and now they will make good.
The division possesses that undefined
quality that the great thinker on war
called “military virtue.” It knows its
power. I must liken it to the Stone-
wall Brigade in the Civil War. God
grant me a clear brain to plan ana
think for it.
He was, incidentally, a student
of the methods and mentalities
of the American Civil War, an
admirer of Grant as a strategist,
but inclined to look askance on
him as a general who had not his
own habits of working equably
for sixteen or seventeen hours a
day. He seemed to find more to
approve in Jackson as a
commander.
# * •
Mr. Hetherington has added a
great deal to the knowledge of
Blarney’s early life. He was the
son of Richard Blarney, a
Cornishman who came from
Newquay in the Flying Cloud in
1862 at sixteen years of age.
In Queensland he took up a
selection on the Warrego near
Charleville and married the 22-
year-old Margaret Murray, a
niece of Donald Mackay. In
1878 he sold out, wrecked by
drought, and moved to a beauti-
ful property called Yarragundry,
on the Murrumbidgee, where
droughts and bushfires and the.
great depression of the ’eighties
ruined them anew. The next
THE LAST ASSIGNMENT
General Blarney at a B.C.O.F. sports-meeting outside Hirohito’s
Palace Gates, 1948.
move was to Lake Albert, where
Richard Blarney became a con-
tract drover. And there Tom
Blarney was born on January 24,
1884.
He came into the world a
member of a typical Wesleyan
family of the time. He went to
church and Sunday-school every
Sunday, with his father driving.
In 1892, when five young hope-
fuls from Wagga Wagga passed
a State-wide Sunday-school
examination, four were Blarneys,
and Tom was at the top with 91
per cent. At 17, a mature Bible
student, he was a local preacher.
He was very strongly under the
influence of a cultivated and
spiritual mother, and even when
he was a poorly paid young
schoolteacher in Western Aus-
tralia he used to save and skimp
to visit her in the holidays.
Family and neighborly tradi-
tion —including some purveyed
by Mary Gilmore, who taught
him in the infants’ class at
Wagga school —holds that he
was a whale for soldiering from
his earliest days ; that “when he
was four or five years old” his
way with tin-soldiers, of which
he had hundreds, was “far from
juvenile” ; that he did not wel-
come advice from his father and
older brothers on the solving of
self-created military problems,
but insisted on finding the answer
unaided.
If all tales are true, his mili-
tary and religious studies seem
to have kept him busy in early
youth. Be the facts what they
may, he once told the writer of
this article that all young officers
should be made to read the Bible
intensively, especially the Old
Testament, since it was the best
book from which to learn to
write clear military prose and
set out essentials. When asked
which parts he recommended in
particular, ho displayed his»sense
of humor and religious education
by saying without hesitation:
/‘Joshua eleven for staff officers
—Job thirty-eight for generals.”
“Joshua eleven” when turned
up, proved to be a concise
account of the happy occasion
when Joshua and his Israelites,
with the Lord on their side,
smote Hazor and his fellow-
kings by the waters of Merom,
“smote them and chased them
unto great Zidon, and unto
Misrepoth-maim, and until the
valley of Mizpeh eastward.”
And then smote them again
“until they left them none re-
maining.” It was a perfect
communique. General Mac-
Arthur could well have written it
in his prime.
“Job thirty-eight,” prescribed
for generals, proved to be the
verse in which the Lord answered
Job out of the whirlwind and
blasted him with the devastating
question: “Answer thou me:
Where wast thou when I laid
the foundations of the earth?”
So Mr. Hetherington’s legends
probably have much in
them, as has his story that
Blarney devoured every printed
word he could find, whether
collected with the eye or heard
at the evening readings by one
of the family over the dish-
washing. Like his worthy foe,
Archie Cameron, he could at
times produce the most astonish-
ing bits of literature from the
depths of a good memory. And
he was so easy with written or
spoken thought that it can be
taken as gospel that at seven or
eight he “showed the beginnings
of a deftness with words which
he was to develop, in his matur-
ity, into a precise and forceful
instrument of expression.”
Yet for one inclined to be
intellectual and religious he had
a lively interest in sport, a ready
set of knuckles in the school
fights. He played Australian
Rules and later was a good
centre - threequarter in the
Rugby field, an excellent horse-
man with a good seat.
Also he was an experienced
tar-boy in the shearing-season.
Sometimes he made journeys
with his father behind a mob,
perhaps to Wodonga, 80 miles
away across the border, a route
he covered more than once when
he was about fourteen.
His military life began as part
of the routine of education in
the cadet corps at the Wagga
Superior School, but his first
attempt to enlist in 1899, at 15,
for the South African war ended
with an admonition from the
local recruiting-sergeant to “go
home and grow up.”
So that year he began his
career as a pupil-teacher in the
Education Department at Lake
Albert School, which had about
40 pupils, and to which he rode
every day on a weedy, fiery-
hearted mare “his father had
bought as a brumby for 275, 6d.”
Later he was transferred to the
New Town Public School in
Wagga, where he tutored the
cadet corps, became as good a
shot as anybody could with the
Martini-Henry, a weapon which
seemed to hit the firer harder,
and with more regularity and
accuracy, than it did the target,
as anybody who ever used one
will remember. He infused a
dynamic enthusiasm into drills,
which stemmed largely from his
snapping approach to the prob-
lem of orders.
At the same time he came
under the intellectual influence
of that strange person Louis
Stone, who lived in the Blarney
home as a boarder, taught at the
same school, discussed literature
with him and enlivened the even-
ings with his violin —Louis was
a sound and versatile violinist.
Blarney did not get far in the
N. S. Wales Education Depart-
ment—his second-cousin, Henry
Walburn Wheeler, headmaster of
Fremantle Boys’ School, found a
post for him in W-A., and there
he stepped ashore in July, 1903,
assistant in his cousin’s school,
soon a noted subduer of tough-
eggs by virtue of a “good voice
and a ready tongue.” He became
a capable musketry-coach whose
school-team won the West Aus-
tralian Cup. That phase lasted
three years and four months,
during which he tried his hand
at sailing, but was better at
singing “I ain’t no sailor bold”
than he was at the tiller.
He was still an ardent church-
goer, a teetotaller and a non-
smoker ; also a lacrosse-player.
At one time he was affected with
an ardent desire to go into the
Methodist ministry, but this
aspiration disappeared when in
May, 1906, he read an advertise-
ment of an examination to be
held in five weeks’ time, to
select young men for com-
mission in the Commonwealth
Cadet Instructional Corps,
He had to wire to Sydney for
books, which arrived three weeks
before the examination. The
results demonstrated the truth of
something he had written in a
letter to his brother Jim a year
before:
I would like above all things to
take my degree (university) within the
next three or four years, and then I
would give everything to go right
inland to the mines as a home
missionary, and after that I would be
a minister whose power would be
felt, and whose sagacity and sym-
pathy would be Christlike. Such is
my ambition. There is no money m
it, but there are greater rewards, f
don’t suppose 1 shall ever reach that
goal, as I must live in the cursed race
for gold. Still, God moves in a
mysterious way His wonders to
perform.
It needs to be said that he was
never much of a performer in
the “race for gold.” The Army
(Continued on page 40)


you can put 700 lb. of meat in
There are many times when you have meal or supplies in
quantity or when reliable food preservation over a long
period could be of great assistance to you. Stock might be
at its best for the table ... an abundance of vegetables
. . . Spring, for killing poultry at its best. All are
occasions when you really appreciate a Flashfreeze quick-
freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you can store food in bulk
at these times and keep it safely, till /’needed. For instance,
fresh beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal, poultry, butter;
fruit, vegetables, baked bread and fruit cake can all be
stored in a Flashfreeze for as long as 12 months without
deterioration in flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is
the convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand because
these units are large, the one illustrated above having
a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding 700 lb. of meat or
an equivalent quantity of vegetables or other, food stuffs.
All Flashfreeze models have at least 2 compartments for
long storage quick-freezing. However, some models have an
additional section for refrigeration for your normal day to
day needs—a combination of the best in quick-freezing
and refrigeration.
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. IBi cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu.-ft.
of refrigeration. PRI4. Ioi cu. ft. of freez-
ing space, 3i cu. ft. of refrigeration. PI2.
12 cu. ft. of freezing space. For full details
this
quick-freezer
contact:
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney. B 0254
NOYES BROS. (MELB.) LTD., 597 Lonsdale St., Melbourne. MU 9031
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WAUCER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
LONDON AND SYDNEY.
twfRP t2A
Santa in the Bomb-Bay
By Bernard
Harris
MY war-neurosis came to
me as a sort of Christ-
mas present; and per-
haps I ought rather to
call it a peace-neurosis because I
acquired it after the cessation of
hostilities.
It all began on an island round
about Christmas-time. The war
had ended in September, and, as
seems to be natural as soon as
the firing stops, there was an
immediate panic to get home.
Men who had philosophically
accepted the necessity of landing
under fire on hostile beaches, of
living for months like under-
privileged moles, of wading in,
sleeping on, even eating the
blasted oil which the very
ground seemed to exude, sud-
denly developed a marked
aversion to sitting about in
comparative luxury to await the
advent of a certain piece of
paper; but it was surprising just
how many of those bits of paper
turned up and who got them.
Everybody back home with
any pretension to importance at
all was obviously behind a move
to have some poor erk released
at once, as indispensable to the
national welfare. Men whom
one would rate as of no import-
ance whatever were suddenly
needed at home because the
whole social and economic
structure of Australia was
tottering without them.
But in some places, and this
was one of them, it was one
thing to get the paper but quite
another to get home; and there
were men without whom Aus-
tralia could barely exist wander-
ing around the wharves and air-
strips flashing their bits of paper
about for days, for weeks, per-
haps for months, literally with-
out getting anywhere. You may
imagine that some of these
eventually approached the stage
of running amuck ; and perhaps
the most frustrated of them all
as Christmas drew near was Wal
O’Dea.
I do not know how many air-
craft - manifests Wal’s name
appeared on, only to be scrubbed
at the first or last or any inter-
mediate moment to make way
for one whose proud possessor,
for one grave reason or another,
was more urgently required back
home; in fact so often was he
so wiped that, though he was no
cynic, he began to talk darkly of
privilege, as if that were a con-
spiracy against him, and eventu-
ally developed a real mania to
beat the graft by getting home
for Christmas.
About the middle of Decem-
ber I was allotted to a seat on
a Yank twin-engined bomber
bound for Darwin (I forget now
why they wanted me back home,
a grave reason, no doubt; some-
thing, perhaps, to do with the
whole country sinking under the
sea unless I was there to prevent
it), and Wal, as usual, was given
a seat. He did not at this stage
really expect to stay on the
manifest, and sure enough at the
last moment he. was replaced by
a wing-commander who had
vital business at Point Piper. So
Wal, thoroughly desperate,
decided to travel as a stowaway.
The aircraft’s bomb-bay had
been modified to take the maxi-
mum amount of luggage, which
was loaded through a port at the
side of the fuselage ; and with
the connivance of certain mem-
bers of the loading crew Wal,
the baggage all in, crawled in on
top of it and made a nest for
himself for the long hop to
Darwin.
TITE took off just after dark
and quickly climbed to
eleven thousand. Yank pilots
always seem to wait till dark to
take off and to get very high,
even if they froze you doing it;
but of course we did not freeze
in this aircraft, which was heated
up like a furnace.
For a long time we drowsed
along in the sticky warmth, and
every now and then I woke up
to wonder how Wal was making
out beneath us, not to worry
about him, though I knew that
the pilot only had to pull the
wrong lever and open his bomb-
doors to send Wal on a two-
mile drop into the sea ; but the
pilot would in no circum-
"Chief says to get those silly-looking strides off at once!"
stances make that error, for the
baggage was precious—the sole
service-possessions of the home-
hungry passengers, kits contain-
ing souvenirs and other para-
phernalia dea,r to their owners’
hearts. I knew that Wal was safe
and snug, more comfortable
than perhaps we were in the
overcrowded plane.
The first time I felt that I
might not have escaped a
neurosis after all was when Tod
Goldman, the second pilot, called
me up front,
“Son of a bitch of a starboard
motor’s on the ice,” he said, not
standing on ceremony, because
he knew me well. “I’d go down
and give it a fly where it’s
healthy, but the boss never likes
to lose an inch, particularly now.
Gotta mighty lotta beef aboard
and we’re sinking a bit.”
“Is he thinking of diverting or
going back?”
“Him divert or go back! ” said
Tod. “Give the boss a stick and
he’s like a bull; and if he wanted
to turn for somewhere else our
dumb navigator wouldn’t know
where somewhere else is, and our
radio operator’s tuned fast in to
Darwin and couldn’t change fre-
quency for nuts. Besides, we’re
too far to go back ; Morotai and
Biak are closed in ; we’re over a
lot of soup ourselves, and the
boss is in a hurry to get to St.
Kilda. We’ll gradually get down
to where she’ll go, but in the
meantime he’s hanging on to
what he’s got for fear of striking
a big wave between here and
Darwin. He told me to let you
know so that you can help to
handle the boys if it comes to a
showdown.”
A look at a map showed 'me
that we were a mighty long way
from anywhere. Then, as I
stared down at the floor towards
the spot beneath which I calcu-
lated Wal slept, my neurosis was
on the make, for I knew that,
unless the motor picked up,
excess cargo would have to be
jettisoned, and that the only
jettisonable and dispensable
cargo was that in the bomb-bay
on which Wal slumbered. I had
a sudden urge to tell Tod all
about it, but I checked myself
and went back to think things
over.
The logical thing was to take
steps to get Wal out of danger;
but I knew that, short of pulling
the aircraft apart, there was no
way of getting him into it. How-
ever, jettisoning was only a con-
tingency. The motor would pick-
up down lower; motors had a
habit of doing that. The trouble
was probably an altitude-made
one in the boost or the
feed, or the lubrication which
would not be apparent in denser
and warmer air.
TOUT Tod soon put me right
13 in this matter.
“Still losing it,” he said. “The
makers say this ship can climb
on one motor with a full load,
but I never knew one son-of-a-
bitch to do it yet.”
We had gradually sunk into
bumpy air, and now we ploughed
into eloud-tops which played
havoc with our passengers’
stomachs; then we barged
through hail which peppered
our fuselage so fiercely as almost
to deafen us. When the hail
ceased beating us and we were
enveloped in teeming rain, I went
forward.
“Down to seven-thousand and
still going strong,” said Tod.
“I’m sure surprised he’s got
down so far without doing
something.”
I sat with him, nervously
registering our gradual descent
through the storm —6000 ft.,
5000 ft, I tried to tell myself
that I should bear my burden
alone, that I should not thrust
it on Tod’s or the captain’s
shoulders. After all, officially it
was not their affair at all, and
they could scarcely be held
responsible for a bod. they were
not carrying. If the luggage had
to go and Wal with it, it would
only be as a means of preserving
the numerous other bods, in the
plane ; and in such an emergency
the aim was to do the best for
the greatest number.
But the captain, if he knew of
Wal’s embarrassing presence,
might be deterred from pity or
some kindred emotion from
jettisoning early enough, and so
lose all hands. Yet, even while
I argued thus, I knew that soon
the captain would have the
whole worry to himself, and I
was on the point of opening my
mouth to ensure this when the
necessity for it was temporarily
removed.
“She’s 0.K.,” said Tod. “I
guessed she would be about here.
He’s shooting up again. He hates
the ground, a. i he hates the
water, and he distrusts altimeters
in the dark. As far as he’s con-
cerned we’re down to fifty below
like a sub. right now. But up
there she’ll cut out again. I’m
telling you.”
“Did he consider getting rid
of weight?” I asked. “There’s
a ton of it in the bomb-bay.”
“He’d have let that go in
another few minutes,” said Tod,
“though he’d have hated doing
it on account he knows every
guy has a Christmas gift there
for his dame. Some guys there
might rather jump out them-
selves than let that stuff go, but


COARD^
‘Uftth'CL' /
PROTECTA lA*> A
TILL
Bailable for every type of boslnean it record!
ail Sales. Credits, Payout* etc. Strongly built,
pleasing Id appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARREKE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Wrise today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
£
choose
o**°
Gilt
Pens and
Onoto Pens have a
larger range of nibs fhan
any other Pen in the world.
Pens from 20/-. Sets from 40/-
Thomas De La Rue & Co. Ltd., London
Distributors;
NORMAN BAKER & LONSHURST PTY. LTD.
Sydney and Melbourne
Sets
NB3I/72
there’s nothing else to throw
out.”
Put like that, it showed me
that the captain might have
operated that bomb-door lever
without consulting anyone, and
that possibility scared me ; and
when, having behaved faultlessly
to ten-thousand, the motor cut
out once more and we started
coming down again, I could
hardly tell Tod soon enough.
“What?” he said. “Where?
You’re not kidding?”
“I watched him crawl in just
before we took off,” I assured
him.
Tod went straight forward to
tell the captain and immediately
returned on business bent.
“Come on, we’ll get that guy
out,” he said.
HOWEVER much I admired
his confidence I could not
share it; and indeed all we found
to pull Wal through when we
unscrewed the metal cover of it
was a round hole about two
inches in diameter; then the
hatchet got us nowhere but just
bounced off, and we had nothing
better to chop or hack with.
“Armor-plating welded and
riveted,” said Tod. “Never
reckoned they thought of pro-
tecting our backsides so well
from ground-fire.”
Everybody in the aircraft,
without being officially told, had
somehow got to know of our
predicament, and so plenty of
brute strength was exerted and
suggestions came in thick and
fast, but not one fragment of the
formidable barrier between us-
and the bomb-bay would budge
and nothing came to light at all
helpful to the project of getting
Wal up.
Then we tried to communicate
with him by poking things into
the hole and prodding everything
we could reach, by shining
torches down it and by shouting
ourselves hoarse into it, but there
was no response.
“He knows Morse,” said Tod.
“We’ll tap it to him” ; and he
took the hatchet and began to
belt on the plating:
Wal Wal do you hear me ?
He repeated this a number of
times, but there was no reply.
“Are you sure the guy’s
there?” asked Tod. “Surely he.
could poke something up through
that hole at least.”
“He’sr there all right, unless
'-he’s fallen out already,” I said.
“Then I’ll wake the bastard
up,” said T id, and over and over
again he tapped out the
message:
Wal Wal SOS SOS motor cut
losing height about to open
bomb-doors to jettison cargo
lash yourself with what you can
find to bomb-racks after jettison-
ing we shut doors again for
keeps. ,
Wal made no acknowledg-
ment whatever. With an Aldis
lamp I flashed a similar message
down the hole, then I tried the
torch ; but for all the response
forthcoming we might have been
signalling into a tomb.
We seemed to have been
d th ri past imes
gaged ° n these surnriTed
±or an aB f s yet Iwas su^P ns f
when Tod came back and said,
“Down to three-thousand and
not a spark in her - The boss
says at two-thousand we
j ettison »
j wen j. at ft then—with the
“Wake up, Tummas, 's time for 'ee t' swaller your deepin'-draught."
hatchet, the lamp and the
torch:
SOS motor failed down low
about to jettison bomb-bay
baggage lash yoursdf securely to
bomb-racks as soon as baggage
goes bomb doors close then if
ditching doors open near deck
get out if able.
I slaved to my capacity,
sweating from every pore —from
apprehension, from labor and
from the heating which in the
excitement nobody had thought
to cut out; but Wal remained
quiet and inactive.
“The guy’s asleep or dead,”
said Tod.
“The poor coot’ll be dead if
he doesn’t soon wake up,” said
a soldier.
The captain let us get down to
2000, then to 1500, but the motor
remained dead. “Suicide to go
on,” said Tod. “He’s betting her
go.”
YOU could feel the bomb-
doors open, the lift as the
load went and the drop as the
doors closed -again. As I had a
vision pf Wal and the baggage
hurtling into the Arafura Sea, I
could imagine what my face
looked like by the uniform
expression on the faces of the
others, an expression almost
blank but positively tragic,
1 whether because of the loss of
Wal or of their preciops baggage
it was impossible to say.
Then there was an abrupt
reaction as every man thought
of his own peril. We were going
better, but still losing height,
very, very slowly but losing it
indeed, and we were far too low
for comfort and the night was
very dark. We fell to making
everything and everybody ready
for ditching.
“Well,” said Tod, “if that
bloody altimeter’s as far out in
the wrong direction as the boss
always fears, or if we happen to
meet up with an island, we’ll be
saved the trodble of carrying out
this bloody ditching-drill after
all, and that might be more com-
fortable than hanging on for
hours waiting to slip under.”
One sits mighty tight waiting
for a ditching in the dark, but
there is always the doubtful
consolation of being assured
that the captain by reason of his
responsibilities feels worse than
anyone else.
“Anyway, if we get down,
they’ll pick us up for sure,” said
Tod. “Our squeal’s gone out to
everyone over and over. We
didn’t send out anything about
Wal. There’d be nothing of him
to pick up anyway, and as far
as the boss is concerned he just
didn’t exist.”
I began to chide myself about
havin § mentioned Wal at all.
As 11 turned out ’ he had had u
go ’ anyway > and my teflmg had
done nothing but put the whole
a i rcra ft in jeopardy. If the cap-
tain had jettisoned earlier, and I
had no doubt that only Wal’s
plight had prevented this, we
should have had a better chance,
Ao far as I was concerned any-
way, we were gone, for a ditch-
ing in the choppy darkness of
that sea was something nobody
could confidently hope to survive.
As I looked about at the others
huddling in the positions we had
allotted them, I began to fear
that I had been mistaken, that
Wal had not been in the bomb-
bay after all, that he had thought
better of it at the last moment
or that someone in authority,,had
seen him get in and unbeknown
to the crew had hauled him out
as we were on the point of taxi-
ing off. It was unreasonable to
suppose that any man could
take the bashing we had given
him with the hatchet, the lights
and the sticks, and not retaliate.
In the midst of these miserable
musings I became aware of a
pronounced shuddering of the
whole aircraft, of tfie dropping
of one wing, of a jolting move-
ment which I knew was not
caused by the bumpy air, and I
braced myself, knowing that
this was it—the last desperate
attempt to restart the motor.
The rhythm seemed to change
drastically just as my ears clicked
in that commonplace but always
startling phenomenon of chang-
ing altitude; there was the
thrumming vibration of motors
out of synchronisation; and
then we were evidently as
before; but still there came no
call to prepare for ditching.
Then a menacing figure loomed
up before my bowed head, and
I looked up, to hear the worst
from Tod.
“The boss has always been
wrong about that bloody alti-
meter,” he said, “and when this
show’s over 111 tell him so. It
went to zero and we hit nothing.
Now the herbs are on again, and
the boss is clawing for height.
He’ll climb till it cuts again, I
guess, and then well have all
this over. While ever a plane
can climb he’ll shoot her up. It’s
as much as we can do to get him
to come down to land.”
“COR once, though his message
was music in my ears, Tod’s
verbosity jarred my nerves, for it
somehow made me think of Wal
again.
Higher and higher we chugged,
every foot adding freedom to
our respiration, and still the
motor performed as faultlessly as
if it had never had anything
wrong with it. At 8000 we burst
out of the weather into brilliant
moonlight which played won-
derful tricks on the stray clouds
and on the heaving sea far below.
Immediately the pressure was
sufficiently off there was another
reaction. I began to feel —and I
knew by the look of them that
others did too, though perhaps
on account of their baggage—
that the captain might have been
hasty in his jettisoning. Maybe
the jettisoning had been un-
necessary after all.
Not once during the remainder
of the trip to Darwin did the
motor even miss, and when we
arrived there, despite my former
wishful-thinking, X felt very
bitter. Poor old Wall He had
been in a tearing hurry to get
home for Christmas, and perhaps
he could not be blamed for what
he had done. He certainly would
not spend Christmas at home
now, and it would take an
infinitely better navigator than I
to determine just where he
would spend it.
After landing at Darwin the
captain broke all taxiing records
to the tarmac, where he opened
his bomb-doors, stopped his
motors in a hurry and was
immediately out of the aircraft
at the double with all hands at
his heels, many of the passengers
perhaps hoping against hope that
some of the baggage had caught
on something and not dropped.
But I was revolted at the pros-
pect of. idly staring at the place
from which Wal had fallen, and
when I finally rejoined them,
there they were gaping up into
the bomb-bay at Wal labori-
ously disentangling himself from
a formidable maze of webbing
and blankets suspended from
the bomb-racks ; all just goggling
at him; all too helpless with
shock to lend him a hand.
he emerged
like a cicada from its case,
stiffly climbed down, stamped his
feet a few times and then sheep-
ishly held out a small parcel.
“My Christmas present for the
wife,” he said. “I saved it.”
“Buddy,” said Tod, “did you
hear us belting at you?”
“Sure I did,” said Wal,
“And yet you didn’t answer,”
said Tod, who seemed suddenly
quite broken up as if he had
suffered more than the rest of
us, and not on account of the
baggage either.
“Thought you were just flush-
ing me out at first,” said Wal.
“And when I knew it was the
real drum —well, what else would
you stop to do if you were in a
hurry to truss yourself up like
me or drop into the drink? Any-
way, I couldn’t reach the hole
and I did try a few knocks and
chills **
“Brother,” said Tod, “I reckon
I’m buddies with all Aussies,
and an Aussie might bum a ride
like you did; but when a guy
is too bloody mean to spend a
reassuring word like you were,
then he ain’t no bloody Aussie.”
And with that Tod landed a
blow, thus starting a fight which
provided a good topic for con-
versation on the comparatively
dull run to Adelaide, and would
have provided a better if Wal
had not been so stiff from his
long suspension.
Anyway, although somewhat
underweight on skin and hair,
Wal got home for Christmas, as
did my brand-new neurosis.


for your
MONEY
Canadian Pacific biggest
travel bargain Australia to
North America.
• Super DC-6B service.
• Exclusive hours' stopover
at Waikiki Beach.
• Non-stop Fiji—Honolulu. .
VANCOUVER
HAWfll
FIJI
AUCKLAND
Your choice of luxury
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
(SJJrlncess* service.
* TOURIST
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Sales
Agents‘for Canadian Pacific) or your local
travel agent.
{iflffftfiirtJ* (Pacific
it
i CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
From on Unpublished Autobiography
A Queensland Schoolteacher
By THOMAS HANGER
SOME years back I read a
book by Ronald Gurner,
an English teacher, a
disciple of Cyril Norwood
and a prominent figure in English
education after 1918. It is one
of the best books I know on
education in England at its post-
war time, and in it Gurner tells
how he came to take up teach-
ing: I am prompted to quote
from it to contrast the making
of teachers in England with the
same process as I knew it in
Queensland.
Gurner had almost finished his
course at Oxford, and was con-
sulting the wise men there as to
a career when he left the uni-
versity to face the world: what
should he do to make a living?
Here is his own way of telling
about it :
There was the Indian Civil
Service, for which a “first” was
necessary—very desirable since
there was a retiring allowance of
one thousand pounds per annum.
Failing that, there was the
Soudan Civil Service, for which
a “second” was better than a
“first,” but a “Blue” was almost
essential. Then there were the
Eastern cadetships (not so good,
of course, but you got the use
of a yacht and you were on your
own). Then there were the Con-
sular Service and the Foreign
Office. There were also the pro-
fessions —law, medicine, the
Church, engineering: there was
the Army, the only drawback
being that the Army had no use
for brains. There was business,
in which I was assured that the
scope for university men was in-
creasing; there was journalism;
there were odd callings, such as
archaeology: and, oh yes, for
those who wanted it—but who
wanted it? —there was teaching.
In Queensland today the posi-
tion seems to be, on a much
smaller scale, as Gurner
described it in England: teach-
ing is taken when nothing else
offers.
Such was not the case in
Queensland in 1887: in my state
of life it was considered an
honor to be chosen as a pupil-
teacher. I am quite sure that I
owed the honor entirely to the
likelihood that, at the end of
each year, I should be able to
negotiate the hurdles —the
annual examinations that
teachers had to face. The Rock-
hampton Central Boys’ School
head-teacher who recommended
my appointment may have felt
that, since I had been four years
in his school, he knew enough of
my character to justify his
choice; and he may have felt,
too, that since I should be under
his close supervision for the next
five years, he could himself take
care of its development.
I was quite content, but it was
mere acquiescence on my part: I
was following the line of least
resistance, since a lad of 13 has
seldom a decided inclination for
one occupation more than
another. I certainly was not
called to my vocation as a clergy-
man is called to his; but teaching
at least opened an avenue to an
education, of sorts; and my
Scotch relations set some store
by education.
c The pupil-teacher system is
now in process of being discarded
in Queensland, but it un-
doubtedly had its merits. It
provided the Education Depart-
ment with teachers for country
schools —bush-school§ to which
teachers trained in the large
centres of population were
unwilling to go, since they felt
they were burying themselves.
There has always been a short-
age of teachers, and lately the
deficiency has become acute,
particularly of teachers for
such schools, so that there is
talk of building, large central
schools in suitable localities to
do away with small schools. The
pupil-teacher system helped to
staff these small schools, since
the trainees were accustomed to
the country and thought it no
hardship to remain there.
It had also the merit—no small
one—of providing training for
head-teachers who had the
responsibility of seeing their
“ Will somebody this damned cow a drink!”
pupil-teachers through their
examination.
Teachers doing the same work.
teaching the same subjects, day
after day, year after year, tend
to get into a groove, to vegetate ;
and the preparation of work
outside the usual routine—work
needed to instruct their pupil-
teachers kept, or tended to
keep, them mentally alive.
Further, it enabled the trainee to
correlate theory of education
with practice far more
thoroughly than can be done at
a teachers’ college, where con-
tinuity of teaching cannot be
secured: what he read in his
textbook on school-method could
be compared or contrasted with.
the methods used in the school-
room. Last, but not least, it
provided a test of a youth’s
ability to teach—a test much
more searching and practical
than any afforded by a teachers’
college.
The head of the school, month
by month, did the testing; and
he was directly interested in
retaining only the competent, in
advising the incompetent to
seek other work. But, of course,
everything depended, as far as
the pupil-teacher’s training was
concerned, on the head-teacher ;
if he was honest and capable, he
passed on his good qualities ; if
he lacked these desirable
qualities, the pupil-teacher
suffered.
The life of the pupil-teacher
was not easy, but in those days
we didn’t look for an easy life:
wheelwrights and blacksmiths
worked from eight in the morn-
ing until six at night, with Satur-
day morning included, and I
should at least not have to go
back on Saturday. We sat for
examination at the end of each
year, and were prepared for the
ordeal—it lasted a week—by the
head-teacher, who was required
to devote at least 90 minutes of
each day to our tuition, and who
was rewarded for his extra labor
by a bonus of £5 for each pupil-
teacher who passed ; for failures
he got nothing.
We taught the whole of the
schoolday, each pupil-teacher
being assigned to a classified
teacher, so that our inexperience
might not press too harshly on
the pupils entrusted to us; our
work as teachers, instructors, was
assessed month by month by the
head himself, and our results —
the percentages obtained by our
classes as the result of our efforts
—were entered in a work-book in
bright red ink. And we had to
get results: no allowance was
made for subnormal intelligence,
which doesn’t seem to have
existed in those days.
Periodically, model lessons
were given by the head or by a
chosen assistant, to show us how
teaching should be done ; these
we watched in silence without
taking notes or making criticisms,
Periodically, too, we ourselves
gave lessons—criticism lessons
—before a panel of assistants,
and these were discussed later
for our benefit: we dreaded these
lessons, for they entailed lengthy
preparation of notes; even the
questions we proposed to give
must appear in full on the notes,
Once a year, at least, we were
overhauled by a District
Inspector of Schools, who tested
the work of our classes and
watched us at work to assess our
teaching ability and progress: he
gave no notice of his coming,
and in those days an inspector
was no friend ; I remember a
girls’ school where the women
were frequently in tears during
his visit.
There was no teaching of
games, and organisation for that
purpose did not enter into the
curriculum, though a teacher who
liked cricket or football might
play after school with any boys
who were still in the grounds.
The daily work was hard, for
we began at eight or earlier every
morning, and seldom finished
before five, with a 30-minute
break for lunch; and invariably
we took home at night two or
three hours’ work to be prepared
for next day. And the actual
work of teaching is far from
easy, when it includes energising
and jgalvanising into continuous
activity a group of 30 or 40 boys
who don’t want to be energised,
as well as presenting information
in attractive form; how severe
a strain it was I think I realised
only when I retired in 1940:
“There is no need to think of the
school any more.”
The work had, of course, its
compensations. Daily, I had an
hour or so in the open-air with
boys at cricket or football; there
were physical exercises—drill,
physical-jerks, changing as the
years passed—which we were
required to keep abreast of and
know and practise, and which
helped carriage and deportment
and soaked me with an ideal of
bodily fitness and cleanliness
that I have never lost; there
was the atmosphere of books and
the culture that the books imply;
the knowledge that we gained
was very thorough if it was
limited ; and there was the moral
training imbibed incidentally
and unconsciously day by day,
the training that every honest
schoolmaster obtains from his
work, since it is impossible for
a man to teach morality without
coming to believe in it; the
morality that some things are
definitely right, others just as
definitely wrong, that good
results can be obtained only by
the simple virtues of honesty
and industry, that success
depends on principle. Men who
have been teaching for any
length of time are seldom fit to
learn another calling, the world
outside the school is so different
from that within.
The school itself, its tone and
the quality of its work, depended
almost entirely on the head, and
within its bounds he seemed to
have absolute power. The dis-
cipline was rigid and harsh, but
not unfair; there were over 400
of us from seven to 16 years of
age, and on State occasions—
presentation of prizes or a visit
from the Governor we
assembled in front and marched
into school. We rehearsed for
these occasions, and the
rehearsals cannot be forgotten:
we must be in line, we must be
in step, we must not stamp as
we marched so that the rhythm
would shake the building,
And in step we were, and
lightly we marched: one boy out
of step and the Old Man blew a
whistle, on which the school
halted, and in dead silence the
unfortunate lad was hauled out
and spanked, after which the
march was resumed,
When we sat down, we sat
down silently—4oo of us: not a
form must be jolted, there was
no jarring of wood on wood,
only the soft swish of our clothes
as our bodies found support on
the forms below. As we sat, our
knees must be slightly apart, our
feet flaf on the floor with the leg
upright from the knee to the
instep, our arms folded across the
breast, all in exactly the same
way—with the back of the right
hand displayed over the left
upper-arm and the fingers of the
left hand just hidden in the right
armpit.
Very neat and tidy we must
have appeared, on those party-
days, to the visitor who saw only
the result: then the Old Man was
the embodiment of urbanity, for
he rather enjoyed these breaks
and carried them off well,
His rigidity extended to his
methods of teaching: he knew
certain ways of doing things
imparting instruction to a class
—and would allow no others,
whether it was multiplication ot
sums of money, finding com-
pound interest, parsing words m
a sentence, or memorising t e
( Continued on page 48)


Modem os lb-morrow?
KEEP YOUR FOOD
2
£ —
ALWAYS WITH
V
Guardian
,v«?
:■ x : :
s&wC'tiv/m
<■■■■■• .
mm:
m
m
■■
l W I
i
f' * i
KEROSENE AND ELECTRIC "ABSORPTION TYPE" AND ELECTRIC "SEALED UNIT"
REFRIGERATORS
m
m
m
★ A beautiful Refrigerator and a
complete food storage unit . . .
Kerosene and Electric Models to
choose from.
2 UNITS
IN ONE
■fa 7 cubic feet of spacious modern refrigeration,
including . . .
Wonderful full-width Frozen Food Locker at a
lower temperature.
In Summer’s blazing heat—and in our mild winters, too—you. need rhodern
refrigeration to keep your food dependably safe and fresh . . . Well, here is the
BIG modern refrigerator built for the country home.
Thrifty and silent, GUARDIAN is designed to give you more for your money . . .
and year-round protection for your foods . . . "GUARDIAN” means "once-a-week
shopping!”
EACH GUARDIAN FEATURE
MEANS MORE FOR YOUR MONEY
Full-width Frozen Food Locker with beautiful white perspex
door. Makes an abundance of ice . . . stores frozen foods,
ice-cream, etc. . . ,
. . . specially designed 2-level
protection . . . standing
top
room for
Ample bottle-storage
shelf, with wire front
larger bottles.
7 cubic feet capacity . . . designed for once-a-week shopping,
and with a reserve of "Cold-power” that keeps food safe
and fresh in the hottest weather.
Huge Vegetable Hydrator keeps greens fresh and moist . . .
and also makes an ideal Meat-chiller.. Also 2 Wire Baskets
for odds-and-ends.
4 shelves finished with polished metal front strips (13
square feet total shelf areal). Conveniently arranged to
utilise every inch of space.
Australia’s most beautiful refrigerator cabinet in white (the
home-decorator’s favorite color!), with smart, solid, chrome
door-handle.
m
SOT
All Kerosene and Electric Models are Available on Easy Terms —hr Immediate Delivery
Distributed in Australia by:—
Elder Smith & Co. Ltd
ADELAIDE: 27-35 Currie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
PERTH: 111-113 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.
MELBOURNE: 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Tasmanian Representatives v
ROBERTS & CO. LTD., Murray Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
ARRAN STEWART PTY. RTD., 1 to 21 John Street, Raunceston, Tasmania.
PETER G. HAYES, 145-147 Wellington Street, Raunceston, Tasmania.
and “GUARDIAN” Agents Throughout West Australia, South Australia and Victoria.
Moffat-Virtue Limited
SYDNEY: EPSOM ROAD, ROSEBERY, N.S.W.
BRISBANE: MOFFAT-VIRTUE (Q’LD) PTY. LTD., 260 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
and MOFFAT-VIRTUE “GUARDIAN” Agents Throughout N.S.W, and
Queensland.


a Crocodile for Emily
By Olag Ruhers
THE summer day was too
much for Mr. Mortimer’s
concentration ; his copy of
“Fortune” too heavy for his
hands and his head. He rested
the magazine now on his knees,
and watched his sister Emily
walking up from the direction of
the tennis-court, stopping some-
times to snip another long-
stemmed rose, at its moment of
perfection, and add it to the stiff
little bundle lying in the shallow
flower-basket on her arm.
It was an action which
emphasised Emily’s serenity, and
to some extent her angularity ;
though while Emily’s" actions
were never notably graceful they
seemed in her exactly right. She
was Mr. Mortimer’s favorite
sister, and he felt a twinge of
regret that she was so soon to
leave the shelter of his house for
the chance-medley of marriage.
It was not so long since Mr.
Mortimer’s misgivings had
the form of a gloomy doubt that
Emily would ever abandon his
own roof-tree. She was close on
forty—so close to forty that Mr.
Mortimer, who was some sixteen
years older, closed his mind to
the fact. He himself had made
a good marriage nearly thirty
years before; and Emily had
been a dependant of his house-
hold almost from the day she
graduated from her school
uniform.
Nor was there any real need
to worry about her future. Hugh
Robertson, her fiancd, a lean
and raw-boned countryman, con-
trolled the wealth of three
generations of large-scale graz-
ing. His flocks and herds ranged
all the horizons he could see
from the shaded verandas of his
house. Since Australia’s import-
control restrictions had been
reduced to a shadow of their
former selves, he travelled
always in the latest of Cadillacs ;
his investments were well-
handled, and he read the Stock
Exchange quotations only in the
regular and frequent submissions
he received from his broker. Not
always then. A shy man, he had
been paying irregular and diffi-
dent court to Emily for a number
of years, and his proposal, when
it came, had been so unexpected
that Mr. Mortimer felt almost
aggrieved, as though it had
threatened to shatter the placid
surface of the lake of their
almost communal relationship.
■pMILY, her expression serene
■*“' in the shade of her big hat,
mounted the steps and sat, a little
girlishly, on the arm of Mr.
Mortimer’s chair. She swung the
flower-basket backwards and
forwards with her right hand,
and with her left stroked the side
of her brother’s head, where he
still had hair.
“What will you buy me, Evan,
for my wedding-present?” she
asked coquettishly.
Mr. Mortimer leaned back
enjoying the soothing movement
of her fingers. “It’s a secret,” he
said; and then another idea
struck him and he added almost
immediately, “It’s a crocodile.”
Emily looked surprised, and at
that moment the door behind
them opened, and Mrs. Mortimer
came into the room. Who knows
what imp had suddenly taken
possession of her husband’s
tongue? Some wayward fay,
gentle but malevolent —not Mr,
Mortimer’s familiar, that heavily-
kind and sober imp that had
never yet unlocked the door to
his imagination. An alien imp,
suddenly in command, sly and
insidious.
“I’m going to buy you a
crocodile,” Mr. Mortimer said
again. A happy grin spread over
his face, and Emily went off
into a peal of laughter, swinging
round to include the new arrival.
“Oh, June, a crocodile for mv
wedding! Evan says he’ll—get
me —a crocodile !”
“Silly man,” said Mrs.
Mortimer indulgently, but
smiling, too.
“Don’t tell anybody,” said Mr.
Mortimer. “It’s a secret, just for
you ”
“To cry your crocodile-tears
if ever you need them,” said
Mrs. Mortimer. Emily glanced
at her peneitratingly, if quickly ;
but June was the last person in
the world to be deliberately catty.
WELL, that was the beginning
of it.
It was a harmless little joke.
Emily and Mr. Mortimer be-
tween them made the most of it,
and in their circle it was wonder-
fully successful. When the
Hantrys came over for Saturday-
afternoon tennis Emily told them
what her brother had said —
just imagine!
“Sort of a watchdog for her,”
amplified Mr. Mortimer.
“Protect her from Hugh’s polo
ponies—they make her nervous.”
The Hantrys laughed happily.
“Evan’s going to buy me a
crocodile, he says, for a wedding-
present,” chirped Emily to young
Margaret Forsyth when they met,
“A crocodile! Evan! Imagine! ”
It was the most successful and
original joke of Mr. Mortimer’s
career, and he worked it hard.
“Been inspecting crocodiles,”
he would say, on the infrequent
occasions when he was unable to
catch the early train home, and
June and Emily would giggle
and counter with something
appropriate.
“Oil-shares are down,” he
would announce gloomily. And
then, smiling, “Crocodiles
cheaper, «too.”
Such a happy family, just the
three of them, and the crocodile-
joke lasted them a long time,
“Lovely weather for ducks,”
Mr. Mortimer used to say when
he came home on a pouring wet
day. Now he said, “Lovely
weather for crocodiles,” and June
and Emily laughed. It gave a
new lease to old sayings. It was
reserved more -or - less for
moments of domestic levity—
Mr. Mortimer had not come to
his responsible position without
having been blessed with some
idea of what was fitting; but it
was a joke that could be trotted
out over and over again with old
friends and near neighbors.
“Mr. Mortimer’s going to buy
me a crocodile,” said Emily to
the little Glidden boy who was
only ten years old.
Mr. Mortimer thought that
was going a little far, but he
smiled benignly.
“Gee, Mr. Mortimer,” said
little Ewart Glidden. “A big
one? A big real crocodile? Are
you going to catch it, Mr.
Mortimer? Will it be a big one
that bites?”
“A real big crocodile,” said
Mr. Mortimer, nodding his head.
“But I think I’ll just buy it. I
don’t have time to go catching
crocodiles this year,”
■MG time? Ten days before the
ceremony, with the house
full of dressmakers and scraps of
materials, and parcels from
Horderns’; with comings-and-
goings and meals disorganised in
the name of intensive shopping,
Mr. Mortimer began to think
about his wedding-present for
Emily,
He intended, of course, to give
her a cheque. But there should
be something else, some
jewellery; something out of the
ordinary; something
really a surprise. He
loved making his
womenfolk happy.
Years before he had dis-
covered the value of a
surprise.
He bought a slim
bracelet. It was much
costlier than he had
expected, and he did not grudge
the money, but he still felt disap-
pointed. It did not have the
element of surprise, the basis for
friendly persiflage that, say, a
crocodile would have given. It
seemed to him as he travelled in
to work one morning a week
before the wedding that he was
missing out on something.
Mr. Burdock parked his car
alongside Mr. Mortimer’s every
morning at the Faulconbridge
station. They waited for the
train together, both braced by
the mountain air on fine morn-
ings, both sheltered under the
awning when it was cold and
wet; and when the train pulled
in they rode up to Sydney in
adjoining seats, each immersed
in his “Sydney Morning Herald.”
Occasionally they spoke;
usually at set intervals. There
was always a full minute of
inspection of the overhead gravel
transporter, an immense contrap-
tion that straddled the railway,
and made ducks and drakes of
the taxpayers’ money near Emu
Plains. When it had been build-
ing both men had been sceptical
of its efficiency ; now that it was
in operation they deplored its
cost and its frequent idleness.
The conversation veered from
one topic to another. Sometimes
it was inspired by heat of the
“Herald’s” political leaders.
More often it pursued to a finely
macerated end some topic from
the correspondence - columns.
“They soon get ideas."
Sometimes, though rarely, the
men discussed Faulconbridge
problems.
This morning Mr. Mortimer,
his mind occupied with a new
and utterly delightful decision,
controlled his impatience and
observed the conventions of their
daily travel until, nearing Penrith,
and half an hour from home, he
noticed over the top of his paper
that Mr. Burdock was looking
into space.
“Tell me,, where would I buy
a crocodile?” asked Mr.
Mortimer, rather too casually.
“Pet-shop,” said Mr. Burdock,
promptly. He went on as though
the question had opened a door.
“Funny you should mention that.
Had a bit of a job myself, once.
In Melbourne, it was. Buying a
pythoh. Very difficult thing to
do in Melbourne. No facilities at
all for that kind of thing. Con-
ventional really, and very hard
to introduce something new.”
“A python?” queried Mr.
Mortimer, wrinkling his broad
and benign forehead. The ball
was out of his area, but his turn
would come.
“A python,” said Mr. Burdock.
“Do you think I could buy a
python? Not on your fife. It
was this way, see: A fellow
wanted to get a python and asked
me about it. I was in Melbourne
at the time, and I said I’d get
him one. Went round all the
bird-shops, asked for pythons —
they just looked at me. Went
into this shop out in the suburbs,
asked the fellow if he had any
pythons. Chap looked a bit
startled. ‘What kind of pythons?’
he says. ‘Any kind,’ I said, ‘Big
ones. Just one, but.’ Chap
leaned over the counter. ‘Tell
me,’ he says, ‘what makes you
come looking for pythons in a
bird-shop?’ ‘Where I come
from,’ I said, ‘the only place you
can buy pythons is in a bird-
shop. Sell them by the foot. So
much a foot. Keep the rats
down.’ ‘Tell me,’ says the
fellow, ‘where is this bird-shop?’
‘Sydney,’ I said. ‘Oh, Sydney,’
he said. ‘Oh, Sydney,’ just like
that and shook his head,”
Mr. Burdock shook his own
head and buried it immediately
again in his paper.
As they were running into
Parramatta he looked up again.
“By the way, they don’t all keep
crocodiles,” he said. “What do
you want it for?”
As he planned the conversa-
tion, Mr. Mortimer had intended
to say, at this point, “A wedding-
present for my sister,” but he
changed his mind at the last
moment and said, weakly, “It’s,
well, kind of a practical joke, in
a way.”
Mr. Burdock nodded briskly
and said, “Yes. Well, the best
place is a little pet-shop near the
Railway. They should be able
to suit you there.”
Mr. Mortimer looked out of
the window for the last ten miles
into Sydney, trying to come to a
reassessment of Mr. Burdock,
who had shared this railway
journey with him for the past
seven years. He failed, and went
off to his office with his mental
equilibrium a little out of kilter,
r FHE Railway bird-shop seemed
to hold a rather confused
melange of pigeons, hamsters,
guinea-pigs, rabbits, puppies, cats
and large white cockatoos; and
Mr. Mortimer stood at the
entrance for quite a while mak-
ing up his mind to go in. He
could see no crocodiles, but there
was a lizard in a glass-fronted
box in the window, a large frill-
necked lizard with sleepy eyes.
Mr. Mortimer stared at it for a
moment; then walked briskly
into the shop. A white-coated
attendant confronted him.
“Have you any crocodiles'?”
asked Mr. Mortimer. The word
had such a long association in
his mind with persiflage that h
had to stifle a desire to
and, as it was, bestowed an over-
abundant smile on the man, who
responded promptly.
“Crocodiles, yes, sir,” he said
“Small, medium or large, sir?”
“Oh, er, small. Quite’ small
Yes, small, I think,” said Mr
Mortimer.
“Small. Yes, sir,” the man
said. “This way, sir.” At the
back of the shop there was a
netting-topped box. It was
gloomy inside, but, peering
down, Mr. Mortimer could see
twelve or fifteen tiny crocodiles
each hardly longer than his hand’
quite somnolent and most unim-
pressive. The man in the white
coat began to unlatch a door
into the box, but Mr. Mortimer
stopped him.
“A large one,lrather think,” he
said. The man looked anxious.
“To tell the truth, sir, we don’t
have any real large ones,” he
said. “When I said ‘large’ it was
just kind of a manner of speak-
ing, like. But I can give you a
medium-sized one, A good one,
sir. A good reasonable size.”
At the back of the junior
crocodiles’ box was another,
longer and shallower. He cleared
a way to it. Again Mr. Mortimer
peered into the box. This held
only one reptile about three-feet
long, or perhaps a little longer.
It looked efficient, and Mr.
Mortimer stepped bade hastily.
“Too large for you, sir?” asked
the man in the white coat, and
Mr, Mortimer recovered himself.
“No, no. Not at all,” he said.
“No, just the thing, I imagine.
That is, he isn’t savage?”
“Tame as a kitten, sir,” said
the man in the white coat,
reassuringly. “Tamer. Nice and
quiet. Well, he’s contented now.
Just.had a big feed, he has.”
“Oh, yes. Another thing.
What shall I feed him on?”
“Bit of meat,” said the man.
“Bit of fish. Bit of this and that.
Give him a pond to keep it in and
he’ll be happy. No need to feed
him often. Once in a while. Get
to like him, you will. After a
while. Eats anything, almost.
He paused and reconsidered this
statement. “Just handle him
right. He ain’t no vegetarian,
he amended,
“I’ll take him,” said Mr.
Mortimer. „
“I’ll put him in a box for you,
said the man in the white coa .
PICTURE then, Mr. Mortimer,
arriving presently at Centra ,
carrying, with a great deal o
circumspection, a large hg
wooden box, disguised in wrap
ping paper, a box of a shape
and size comparable to the
fashioned gun-case, but rathe
more difficult to transport, tit
found his regular seat in jus
regular compartment, an 8
his regular greeting to
Burdock, . the
When the train had left t
suburbs behind, pulled ou
Parramatta and was speeding


THE BOSS KNOWS
x.
. J?
:x:-
11
X
in
LOOK AT OUR FLEET -
ALL
internationals
“We changed to International two years ago. We’d had a
mixed fleet until then—just trying them out. Figures proved
there was only one in it—lnternational. With a show like
ours, when men handle all. types of loads in city traffic and
on long country trips, every truck must be ready for any job,
any time. Internationals are built to take all the rough
knocks! The big thing the boss liked about Internationals is
the range of Australian-made trucks. This means a con-
tinuous supply of both trucks and parts. So we all agreed,
International is the best truck investment today!”
THE AUSTRALIAN-MADE
INTERNATIONAL LINE INCLUDES
AR-110 Utility, 12-cwt.
AR-JIO Chassis and Cab,
AR-110 Chassis and Cab,
AR-112 Utility, 15-cwt.
AR-112 Chassis and Cab,
AR-112 Chassis and Cab,
AR-130 Chassis and Cab,
AR-131 Chassis and Cab,
AR-160 Chassis and Cab,
AR-160 Chassis and Cab,
AR-161 Chassis and Cab,
AR-161 Chassis and Cab,
AR-162 Chassis and Cab,
AR-162 Chassis and Cab,
capacity, 115-in. w.b.
18- cap., 115-in. w.b.
19- cap,, 127-in. w.b.
capacity, 115-in. w.b.
21-cwt. cap., 115-in. w.b.
23-cwt. cap., 127-in. w.b.
35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b.
35-cwt. cap., 134-in. w.b.
3-4 ton 153-in, w.b.
3- ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
4- ton cap., 154-in. w.b.
4- ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
5- ton cap., 154-in. w.b.
5-6 ton cap., 172-in. w.b.
There’s an INTERNATIONAL for every job I
There’s also a line of heavy-duty
imported International models. Call,
phone or write your International
Branch or dealer about the
right truck for your job.
Note: Chassis and cab cap-
acities include body weights
Model
AR-162
mm
S
International Harvester
Company of Australia Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities
Works: Dandenong and Geelong
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
. THE WORLD’S BEST TRUCK INVESTMENT
FMTS27-36
across the plains, there was a
slight scrabbling noise from the
box, and Mr. Mortimer started
up nervously. He rearranged the
box in the luggage-rack rather
fussily and sat down again,
elevating an anxious eye.
Mr. Burdock looked up.
“New clubs?” he hazarded.
Mr. Mortimer shook his head.
“A present for Emily,” he
said. Then he remembered and
leaned forward confidentially.
“As a matter of fact it’s the
crocodile,” he said. “You know,
from the bird-shop. I got it
for Emily.”
Mr. Burdock put his paper on
the seat beside him,
“A crocodile? For Emily?”
He sounded incredulous. “Oh,
yes, you did mention . . . Now I
Mr. Mortimer beamed. “I
got a beauty,” he said.
“Just a moment.” He pulled the
box down and began to undo the
wrappings.
“Aren’t they ... Is it savage?”
asked Mr. Burdock, who seemed
to have lost some of his earlier
aplomb.
‘'Not at all,” said Mr.
Mortimer, hardly pausing. He
looked up. “It’s not a large one,”
he said. “Merely middle-sized,
A good medium specimen.” He
had the paper off the parcel and
now he removed the lid from the
box.
Mr. Burdock leaned over
somewhat gingerly for a look.
The crocodile, just beginning to
flatten into the comfortable lines
of semi-maturity, looked up at
him without a blink. He filled
the box nicely, his legs upright
against the side-walls, his belly
flattened against the floor.
“A beauty,” exulted Mr.
Mortimer. “A lovely specimen.”
He lifted the crocodile just
as the man in the white coat
had lifted it for him, one hand
clamped firmly over the jaws, the
other grasping the belly just in
front of the rear-legs.
“Here, look what you’re
doing,” said Mr. Burdock in
some alarm.
“It’s quite safe,” said Mr.
Mortimer. “He isn’t hungry.
He won’t need feeding for a
week. They assured me. Any-
way,” he added with conviction,
“he’s a quiet little thing.”
The crocodile, sitting on the
seat beside him, lived up to its
guarantee. It neither moved nor
made a noise. Mr. Mortimer
hovered over it momentarily,
and then essayed to return it to
its box. But something had
happened. The crocodile’s legs
were now too widely spread to
enter the box and, try as he
might, Mr. Mortimer could not
manipulate the stiffly flexible
body to insert it where it ought
to go. Soon he ceased trying and
left the crocodile on the floor,
under the seat, where it remained
until the train was pulling in to
Faulconbridge.
A mile out of the station he
tried again, unsuccessfully, to
put the reptile back in the box;
and when the train stopped he
simply left the carriage with the
empty box under one arm and
the crocodile under the other.
The stationmaster gave him a
startled glance as he showed his
ticket, but nobody else seemed
to notice. He was glad of that,
for, in a place like Faulconbridge,
it was his experience that such
trivia made news,
V
TTE made no attempt to put the
crocodile back in the box,
and just left it on the front seat
of the car for the long drive
home. After a little while it
took two or three tentative steps
forward, and laid its long muzzle
across his knees. He was
absurdly touched—although the
first contact made him jump—it
seemed to be an establishment
of a relationship. Also it was the
first sign of life the beast had
shown.
For the remainder of the drive
the beast stayed like that, not
looking anywhere, not altering
its position ; just resting its snout
upon his knee. And after he had
finally put the car away in the
garage he found that his new
pet went into its box quite easily.
He went into the house by the
side-door off the veranda, and
concealed the box, with
crocodile, temporarily under the
bed. Just before dinner he
managed to corner Mrs.
Mortimer,
“I’ve got another surprise for
Emily,” he said. “Come and
see.”
He took the lid off the box,
and with all the aplomb now of
a herpetologist, or of the man
in the white coat, raised the
reptile and held it aloft. But
Mrs. Mortimer, with an agility
amazing in one her years, had
leapt directly for the bed, where
she now stood bouncing and
balancing precariously.
“Evan,” she said. “Evan! It’s
alive! What is it?”
“A crocodile,” said Mr.
Mortimer, with aplomb. “A
crocodile for Emily.”
Mrs. Mortimer was silent for
several seconds. Then she
screamed, taking her husband
completely by surprise. He had
not known her to scream before,
and now he dropped the
crocodile on the floor the better
to placate her.
“Put it away. Take it away,”
shouted Mrs. Mortimer. “Watch
it. It will go under the bed.
Don’t leave me.”
But five minutes later she was
watching the stuporous reptile as
it spraddled on the floor where
Mr. Mortimer had placed it;
and she was saying, “It is rather
fun. At least Emily will be
surprised.”
Mr. Mortimer found a dark
corner of the old stables, unused
now except as a storehouse for
tennis-nets and cucumber-frames
and installed the crocodile there.
It seemed to demand little of life.
Twice during the week that fol-
lowed Mr. Mortimer supplied it
with choice cuts of meat, but it
would have none of them, and
the meals were beginning to
deteriorate rather badly when
Mr. Mortimer disposed of them.
And in the meantime Mrs.
Mortimer took over and
embroidered the legend of the
wedding-gift.
And the community-interest
was nicely whetted by the time
that Mr. Mortimer, at Emily’s
last pre-wedding party, carried in
the long box, decorated now with
little rosettes and lovers’-bows,
as previously he had carried in
the punchbowl; and placed it in
the centre of the long table
where Emily’s gifts were dis-
played. Ceremoniously he undid
the wrappings and lifted the lid
—forestalling Emily’s protesta-
tions, for he feared consequences
if he left the unwrapping to her
—in a real display of thoughtful-
ness. He threw down the lid with
a flourish.
‘ A crocodile for Emily! he
announced, and lifted the reptile
up into the light. There was a
moment of silence and then
uproar. ,
But there was no doubt t a
the gesture was a success.
“Long life to the crocodile!
proposed young Wentworth at a
later stage ; and old McNamai a
went off into a long recital of
New Guinea reminiscences.
SnterlnTMoS
bride, with Mr. Mortimer the
proud donor in each instance.
The crocodile went into his
box quite happily again.
F’ went off in the boot of the
latest Robertson Cadillac, and
Mr. Mortimer did not see any
more of it until some four
weeks later, when he paid his
first visit to the new Robertson
menage. On that occasion it was
Hugh who brought up the
subject.
“Very funny beast, that
crocodile;” he said. “Runs away
all the time. Sits quite still for
a while and then —flash! Into
the water.”
“Into the water?” asked Mr.
Mortimer.
“Gave it a bit of a pond to
swim in. Thought it would feel
more at home,” said the bride-
groom. “Come and have a look.”
The crocodile had been given
permanent quarters in a stoutly
constructed pen. It covered a
large area, perhaps twenty-yards
long by about four wide; and
of this area, enclosed by the
strong, tightly strained wire-
and nettihg-fence, perhaps a
third consisted of a dam full of
water, fed by a pipe run in from
a near-by water-race. Within
this domain, the crocodile seemed
not to be acting strangely at all.
He was lying near the water and
remained immobile.
“Takes all his meat under-
water,” said Hugh. “Sinks it.
Watch him and he’ll flash right
away into the deep part.”
But as they watched, the
crocodile did nothing of the sort.
“Perhaps he’s sick,” said Mr.
Mortimer. “Perhaps he needs
attention.” He made as if to
climb over the fence, but his
brother-in-law stopped him.
“I wouldn’t do that,” he said.
“Watch this.”
There was a spade leaning
against the fence by his hand,
and Hugh hefted it, and tossed it
over so that it landed upright in
the ground alongside the
crocodile. For a moment nothing
happened. Then in an alarming
and unaccountable change of
attitude the crocodile moved.
“Clang-g-g” went his teeth on
the metal of the spade. He
snapped again, and the handle
flew into two pieces.
THE crocodile’s tail twitched
twice, very slowly and he
glowered at the two men. Then
in another instant —and only the
ripples showed where he had
gone—he was in the water.
“Short-tempered,” said Hugh,
nodding his head.
“I —I had no idea ...” began
Mr. Mortimer, and forgot what
he was about to say,
“They like a warmer climate,”
said Hugh, and closed the
subject.
But as they walked up to the
house Mr. Mortimer kept think-
ing of the crocodile —quiescent
in Mrs. Mortimer’s bedroom, the
life of the pre-wedding party,
most vividly the way it laid its
trusting head in Mr, Mortimer’s
lap as he drove home from
Faulconbfidge station.
Three or four weeks later he
heard the crocodile was dead.
It must have been the climate,
or perhaps it wasn’t getting the
right sort of food, Mr. Mortimer
never heard. Hugh Robertson
was a tight-lipped kind of man,
not given to much small-talk,
and Emily never mentioned the
crocodile again.


Internment and the Woman-Touch
MR. COBBLE’S PYJAMAS
By MABEL WALN SMITH
/I NY direct answer to the
/""A question, “What exactly
| goes on in an internment-
camp?” is bound to be
as great an - understatement of
facts as a British naval report
announcing a major sea-battle.
Behind all prison-bars lies a
welter of emotions, and our over-
crowded community kept within
barbed-wire by 16 zealous
Japanese guards was no excep-
tion.
It was once strictly a men’s
lock-up, in some 80-year-old con-
demned warehouses across the
river from Shanghai, but we of
the Grand Canal prison had
been hustled down-country and
jammed into the place ; so there
were two sexes at Pootung
camp.
The manual labor of running
the camp being so tough that
the 1200 men had with one
gallant gesture exempted 239
women from taking part in it,
we were free to fit in where we
could. The specialised few
thereupon took over the nursing
of the sick and the schoolteach-
ing of the 21 children who had
arrived with us; the bulk of the
women settled-in to sewing the
skinny, bearded, wild-eyed and
shirtless men back toward what
they had been as bearers of the
“white-man’s burden” before
World War II flowed out from
Europe and joined-up with us
so awkwardly here in the Orient.
Each women’s-room organised
its own volunteer sewing-squad,
with a leader, and every morning
from nine to, 12 a mending-group
worked in the dining-hall.
“Dining-hall,” perhaps, is a
presumptuous name for the 50ft.-
by-80ft. ground-floor of a rotten
old go-down which was our
busiest centre in camp. Eating
was the least of the things we did
in there, but food looms very
prominent in the minds of half-
starved people, hence the title.
Twenty - one long, splintery,
wooden tables and 42 long,
splintery, wooden benches made
by our public-works department
were the dining-hall’s only fur-
nishing, To be used by inter-
nees to sit on and lean on while
they chewed unhusked rice or
tried to chew whole grains of
dried corn shelled off the ear and
boiled without salt, or hunted for
scraps of meat in a stew made
from muddy vegetables plus
their skins, or pondered over the
non-filling qualities of half a
beetroot —these made up a small
part only of the benches’ and
tables’ work.
Five evenings of the week this
hall was headquarters for bridge-,
chess-, poker- and dart-players,
all using prison-made equipment
. . . with one corner for children
doing “home-work,” one for a
papier-mache group, one for a
clique in Mandarin conversation,
and one where rehearsals for the
current internee-written play
were in progress. I was often
scrabbling round on my knees
with pins in my mouth, fitting one
of my evening frocks on a pretty
girl who needed it for the “stage”
—never having been imprisoned
before, and not being trouser-
minded like some of the more
sensible females, f had prepared
for internment by slinging into a
suitcase an assortment of the
high-society clothes I had been
using.
On weekend evenings the
tables and benches were drawn
up for entertainment or lectures ;
on Sunday mornings the hall
housed the Protestant service;
and on weekday afternoons the
university classes met there. We
had professors who were very
willing to practise their craft. It
was possible to learn a good deal
about many higher subjects of
learning, including a choice of
15 languages.
During an ordinary weekday
morning, however —our jailers
permitting . the dining-hall
really went to town. Four tables
were set aside for the children’s
school, three for private study
(adults), one for the class *in
Chinese newspaper-reading, one
for the chemistry experiments,
one for the shoe-repairers, two
for judo, two for eye-exercises,
two for the barber’s-shop, five
for the physiotherapy depart-
ment.
At one remaining table sat the
women’s sewing-group.
It was 9 a.m., and Room One
was on duty. Since I had noth-
ing better to do I joined them.
The Room One women were
mostly blunt, warm-hearted
Scots, I was fond of them. Mrs.
Saunders was leader; which
meant she received from the
ragged queue of men proffering
their remnants of clothes.
Mrs. Saunders discussed
buttons, thread, patches, and
passed garments for repair on to
her henchwomen already seated
at the table. They in turn fell to
work with thimble, needle and
scissors, so that by the end of
the morning a neat pile of recon-
structed men’s-wear would
emerge from the pile of rags
individually deposited piece by
piece earlier in the day.
“Receiving-time is up,” stated
Mrs. Saunders firmly. Her
wrist-watch showed 9.30. She
turned to the considerable
number of men who still stood
hoping to turn in their things for
mending. “The rest of you must
present your things to to-
morrow’s sewing-group.”
She squared her jaw in that
certain way that brooks no argu-
ment, her back poker-straight.
The queue shrank back. The
season was summer, and the men
would don socks and coats as
evening approached, out of
respect for the girls with whom
they hoped to make a date. But
now, in the daytime, the queue
was mostly dressed in the male
uniform the camp had evolved
as best suited to its particular
needs —khaki shorts and leather
sandals. Sleeping garments had
most recently been sacrificed to
strengthen day apparel. Sheets,
pillow-slips, underwear, and such
surplus articles had long ago
been turned into more necessary
things ; but the wear-and-tear of
camp labor had further reduced
Pootung clothes to the minimum,
and now that minimum was fast
wearing out.
“Please, ma’am, these things
should be mended today. They’re
needed tonight”—a meek little
voice at Mrs. Saunders’s elbow.
One man had dared challenge
the leader’s decision. Creeping
out from the queue, he thrust
forward a faded blue-and-white
jumble of striped material.
Mrs, Saunders whirled to face
him, “Pyjamas! ” she said
sternly. “Where have you been
hiding those?”
She snatched at them —but too
late. A sympathetic mate had
the coveted garments parked
safely behind him.
“This chap can’t sleep raw
like the rest of us prefer to do,
you see he ... ”
It was a scandal. Mutiny,
almost. We felt we had a right
to make the rules. What man
chased into prison at bayonet-
point thinks of bringing needles,
buttons, thread? But women do.
In spite of Japanese regulations,
after we got settled into camp
everything from a set of Royal
Doulton china to a feather-boa
could have been found among
the women’s equipment.
Mrs. Saunders peered closely
at the shrinking little man. Her
eyes softened. “Ach,” she said,
“it’s you! Very well, then, if
it’s urgent, laddie. Put them on
the table and we’ll do the best
we can.”
The man did as he was told,
and Mrs. Saunders with a wave
of her hand dismissed him and
all the other men. -
The squat woman across the
table from me, the lean woman
on my left, the dark woman on
my right, the brooding red-eyed
woman hunched in her seat, and
myself, sank back disappointed.
Mrs, Saunders’s brusqueness was
our moral mainstay. Scolding
“became” a woman of her firm
type, and stiffened us all.
It was as if Mrs. Saunders
had been born fully clothed in
starched shirt-waist and crisp,
modest skirt, her grey hair
strained neatly into order. Not
even our jailers could put her
out of countenance. When the
guards punished us for our
countries’ “misdemeanors” by
routing us from our beds at
hourly intervals on five succes-
sive nights, parading us on roll-
call, Mrs. Saunders did not
appear in dressing-gown, frowsy-
headed. Standing poker-straight
in our midst, her presence spoke
of, that sane outside world into
which we would emerge, some
day, we hoped. To see Mrs.
Saunders was to feel more sure
of it. Steely-eyed, She looked
our tormentors up and down,
wordlessly. And perhaps their
determination wilted. Anyhow,
we had no more night roll-calls,
and that was important. Under-
nourished people need all v the
sleep and rest they can get if
they are to survive.' Eleven
hours of each 24 is not too much.
Mrs. Saunders sat down on
one end of a wooden bench in
the dining-hall, and I knew she
must have some very good
reason for letting that pyjama-
clutching man off so easily ; but
what was it? She put a long
white cotton-thread briskly
through her needle and stuck it
in the front of her blouse. Then
she started to sort through the
pile of holey socks, threadbare
overalls, disintegrating shorts.
“I’m sorry, lassies, to have
accepted so much work. I fear
we’ll not get through all of it
this morning. But 1 hadn’t the
heart to refuse the last one. Had
his needs been left to tomorrow’s
sewing-group dear knows the
outcome! Every Sunday that
man sits in front of me in this
dining-hall, for the missionaries’
religious service. Never misses a
service. We Scots have great
respect for such an attitude. The
lad’s no flash type, trying to get
away with something. He’s that
hard-working Mr. Grubble who
volunteers for all the worst jobs
in camp . . . but insists on sleep-
ing in pyjamas. Says it’s his last
hold on civilisation and he dare
not let it slip. We’ll no destroy
his hold on civilisation. Will you
deal gently with these pyjamas,
Mrs, Anderson, please?”
Mrs. McDermot leaned across,
hissing in my ear: “Let him be
so, then, an exception. It’s the
ones that don’t care that start
dying on us.” She clicked her
upper plate into position and
smiled her approval.
Dour-faced Mrs. Anderson
accepted the ragged handful of
pyjamas. She was the best
needlewoman in this group and
her heart was big, but, as she
threaded her needle with blue
cotton, for the first time in my
mending experience I saw her
look doubtful. She fell to hunt-
ing among the mending materials
for patches. Finally she found
something that would serve the
purpose—several pairs of white
cotton socks with feet long past
redemption. She slit the legs into
neat rectangles and, firmly taking
up her needle, started to stitch
the white patches on to the weak
and riddled spots of the legs,
back and front of Mr. Grubble’s
blue-and-white-striped pyjamas.
With blue thread.
“Might as well keep to the one
color-scheme, at least,” she said
grimly.
“Here comes Elsie,” exclaimed
Mrs. Saunders, greeting a slim
newcomer, who had recently
been confined to the clinic for a
minor ailment; now she looked
bright-eyed and rested. “That
makes 12 of us. A good attend-
ance, Here, child, sew a button
on this coat if you can find a
spot strong enough to hold it.
Yes, I agree, Mrs, Smith,” she
replied to a statement from 1 me,
“We stitched up these same
brown pants last week. Now
another place has given way.
Well, use a bit of this black
cloth. There’s nothing else to
patch with. Mrs, McPherson,
will you tack-a new collar onto
this old blouse? . . . Now where
have I seen this bit of rag
before? Oh, yes, I know. Twas
hanging on the wash-line yester-
day, It’s that library-man’s
underpants. I saw him at the
laundry-tub and I told him not
to scrub his pants so hard! ”
Soon hands were full of work,
scissors snipped, needles flew,
and tongues chattered. Other
tables filled up. Classes and
work started. The dining-hall
hummed with activity.
A childish treble broke
through from a table in the
corner: “But, please, teacher, I
can’t throw this chewing-gum in
the wastepaper-basket. It doesn’t
belong to me. I only borrowed
it.”
The voice was drowned out
by the Chinese-newspaper class.
“Wo pu ming pai shemmo kuo
shentsai chung kuo,” explained
the professor patiently, “means,
I do not know what Government
we now have in China.”
“Whoever did know that
little thing?” commented my
neighbor.
“Quiet, please!” snarled the
professor.
“There’s too much favoritism
in this camp,” boomed a bluster-
ing man in the shoe-repair
section.
A sharp protest from the
“barber’s-shop” as my room-
mate, the White Russian wife of
a Britisher, once the owner of a
smart Shanghai hairdressing
shop, and the only woman
allowed to cut hair in camp,
held a mirror in front,of a cus-
tomer. Her scissors had expertly
slipped, injuring his beard, and
he was upset.
Sweetly she apologised, and
winked at the sewing-table,
surreptitiously holding up four
fingers. She had vowed to
eliminate all those dirty scraggly
beards. Only four beards left.
Elsie’s giggles were drowned
by a near-by instructor who was
intent on curing weak eyesight
without the help of glasses or
carrots.
“Pay attention to your eye-
exercises, please. First I’ll test
Mr. Patterson. Can you see from
there? Right. Step back. From
there? Back two feet. Still
further back. . .”
Mrs. Saunders’s needle flew
out. At the end of its long thread
it contacted Mr. Patterson,
whose zealous instructor had
driven him back that far,
“Ouch!”
The instructor turned on the
mending-party. “Interfering with
my work?”
“Interfering with whose
work?” snapped Mrs. Saunders.
“That man’s cross-eyed. Stop
torturing him.” She turned back
to her sewing.
The, eye-exercise class went
on with its testing.
“What’s happening over
there?” said Elsie, pointing to
another corner of the hall with
her scissors. “Look at them
twisting that man’s legs round his
neck. Is that the new Japanese
committee you go up before?”
“No, dearie,” corrected Mrs.
Saunders. “That’s the class in
ju-jitsu. Our own internees.”
Scissors snipped, needles flew,
tongues chattered.
“By the law of averages,” con-
fided Mrs. Saunders, “these
yellow haythen are about due to
pretend they’ve word of another
big victory ...”
“When the guards are red-
faced full of celebration beer,
sprawled dead-drunk inside their
guardhouse, and their filthy
Commandant has his lilywhite
toes tucked safely under an
officers’ feast-table across the
river,” spoke up the fluent lean
woman, “then we’ll stir up a
dance. . .”
“Perfume,” croaked the red-
eyed woman, opening her mouth
for the first time that morning.
“I’ve got some perfume an’ I’ll
put a drop on each of yez.”
Mrs. Saunders ran an eagle
eye over each of us in turn.
“Lassies, just because there’s
about five men to every woman
in here does not mean you
should get prideful. Not one of
you is to refuse any partner who
asks you. No matter what the
size, shape, or color of the
masculine creature, give him at
least part of a dance.” She
looked accusingly at me. “At
the last dance, .
The squat woman chuckled.
“I could understand your prob-
lem there,” she said. “He danced
like the straw man from ‘The
Wizard of Oz’ before they
refurbished him.”
Mrs. Saunders’s lips twitched,
but she straightened them
quickly into a thin line of dis-
approval and swung round
severely upon Elsie. “And as
for you. . .”
“Twelve-o’clock,” announced
the lean woman. “Come along,
Elsie, tell me how many pro-
posals you’ve had this week
while you help me back to the
room with needles and
thread and stuff. . You’ll pick
yourself a jolly good husband
from our male menagerie here,
I’ll bet.”
“Make sure you get a Scot,”
said Mrs. Saunders.
The school, shoe-repair de-
partment, barber’s-shop, physio-
therapy section, ju-jitsu and eye-
exercise classes were breaking
up—in time for the wooden
((Continued on page 41)


7
i/i
%
&
A woman on the roof of the world
On a summer’s day, in 1932, a small mono-
plane took off from Villacoublay aerodrome,
near Paris, climbed . . . and went on climbing.
The pilot was Mile Maryse Hilsz, and she
was out to establish a new world’s altitude
record for women.
The Rhone Jupiter engine was running
smoothly. 10,000 ft., 20,000 ft., 30,000 ft.,
30,250 ft. —she had made it ! Maryse Hilsz
had carried away the record for France.
A.1.0.C. had a part to play in this young
woman’s brilliant achievement, for speaial
BP aviation spirit was used for the flight.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come
a long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready
at all times to provide aviation fuels speedily
and efficiently.
X AVIATIONijjp SERVICE X
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
TIGAH KUNTREE
By Clive
Barru
RUDY and I dined on
brandy, nicotine and
intrepid flies in the
meagre shade of a
shallow cave. I rolled a smoke,
licked it shut and poked it in
Rudy’s face.
“Listen,” said Rudy. I
I looked. Through repellent
fumes of sterile noon, black tea-
tree wavered moltenly. A lizard
flowed down tattered bark.
Flying-saucers hovered nervously
opposite bubbles in my eyeballs.
Nothing else shifted.
Rudy hooked our tripod under
his arms like a Sten. I caught a
fly and fed the lizard. From
down gully came a crickly-
crackly like dehydrated carrots
in anew knapsack.
“He’s on the stringybark,” 1
whispered. “Without this haze
we’d see him.”
“We see him,” said Rudy. He
spat out his flaring butt and I
stamped it into my stone-bruise.
The lizard scored a flourish
across cave-dust, discarded its
tail and fled.
“Shut up,” said Rudy. I put
my stone-bruise down, but it
limped. I splayed our tripod.
Rudy sighted through our view-
finder and traversed like a
machine-gunner. The lizard’s tail
whipped about blindly.
Rudy’s eyes were asterisks
against paper-white sky. He
gauged my iris, “Seven-point-
five,” he said. I contracted the
lens-diaphragm to a high stop-
number, clipped a telephoto-hood
on the turret. Every adjustment
was a spectral click in that
anaesthetic lunch-hour. The
stringybark crackled again.
I gripped our lame tripod by
the shins while Rudy squeezed
off a thunderous shot at the
goanna. The thunderous shot
was answered by cicadas.
“Let’s finish the brandy,” I
sighed.
“Let’s get a close-up,” said
Rudy.
T CARRIED our Swiss Bolex
■*- across waterworked goolies
and set it on the tripod in orange
shadow under a leaning gibber.
The gibber was bigger than a
family fridge. The goanna was
low on the stringybark flicking
at bulljoes with his tail. A peel-
ing nose and ragged trunks
would admit him to any surf-
club.
Rudy tilted our camera up at
pockmarked cliff-face where
pool-rejected sunlight writhed
elastically. I noted the frame
count as Rudy dragged past
swallow-nests.
Rudy tells me the camera has
personality. He says the camera
creeps ' about wonderingly,
examining new surroundings . , .
embarrassed, inquiring . . . noise
startles us, we look up quick . . .
silence, we creep again ... the
sound-track Rudy says is a record
of our innermost thoughts . . .
scratch, scratch . . . what’s that?
Yairs: the thought-processes of
the tedious goanna. Film-
making uncolossal.
At twenty-four colored frames
a second, Rudy’s technique
brings bankruptcy to the door
and leaves the door on the latch.
“Pull his tail for action,”
directed Rudy. Action? Yairs:
goanna-bite never heals.
I crept into the picture. Five
claw-fingers twitched open and
a bayonet-tongue showed a
razor-nick at the tip. The
acoustic counter on the camera
exploded every second. Mosaic-
skin fluttered near the goanna’s
waistcoat. Hormones maybe.
Or neurosis. Or myxomatosis.
“Boo,” I croaked. The goanna
clanked, skidded and crashed on
to the dry creek-bed. I sprang
over the camera on to the under-
mined gibber and toppled it.
The goanna disgorged a rubbery
egg and reversed two or” three
lengths to cough at me.
Rudy was stretched face-down
on yellow bedrock with both
hands crumpled under blunt
gibber. Rudy’s flayed face
dripped onto the camera. Every
drop was slab with sand.
“I shot him in slow-motion,”
said Rudy. The goanna clanked
up the stringybark. I
pressed smooth pebbles
inside Rudy’s elbows, and
clinched wristwatch straps
around them. I leyered the
gibber with the tripod, but
the tripod bent like drink-
ing-straw. I tried to
detach Rudy’s wrists
without success. I stopped the
camera:
“There’s a homestead above us
on the other side,” said Rudy.
“Are you windy about the
goanna?”
“Goannas are omnivorous,”
Rudy told me. Yairs; that’s a
relief.
I went through clumps of
sheoaks gathering triantcher
wobbegongs with their webs.
Over spear-grass I had the burnt-
rice smell of grasshoppers
crushed underfoot. Up scree
slope I only trotted. On vertical
cliff the sun fell heavy as bagged
wheat. A thin line of rust
trickled down scorched rock. I
reached for handholds. The
thin line dodged, turned and
spiralled up lawyer-vine. Yairs.
On the lip of the gorge sat the
devil incarnate with white beard,
a crow’s feather laced to his bald
head, and skin, burnt the color
of home-stilled bombo. He had
no clothes. The unclad one
aimed a bow-and-arrow at me.
“Got you,” he cried.
The arrow parted, the bow-
string broke, the arrow described
a clockwise corkscrew. I ducked
anti-clockwise and the arrow
floated overhead.
“Pardon me,” said the devil
unclad. “X thought you were a
tiger,”
“I’m a kangaroo,” I said.
“Have you seen a tiger?”
I gave myself brandy, and
when I looked again he was
gone. I ran.
A wallaby-track in a re-
entrant took me to plateau.
Between grapefruit - trees I
trampled melon-vines; then
stepped on to lawn of couch and
bent. Under a grape-vine trellis
a caramel-colored girlie bathed
celluloid dolls and shared the tub
with them. The girlie had cherry-
red ribbon braided through
yellow plaits. Blood on sand-
stone.
“Where’s daddy?” I snarled.
“Battista! Oh, Battista,” she
called as she scrubbed a doll’s
ear.
The house was pise with slate
roofs and watertanks hung in
passion-creeper. A young lady
fresh as the morning milk came
out through flyscreen-doors. She
had flesh sunstained to spilt-
whisky and bottle-bright black
hair. She sniffed at my baited
breath.
From the grapefruit grove
came Battista in footer-shorts.
Battista had a curly ziff, copper
cheeks and plenty of profile
below the chin. He laughed.
I said: “My mate’s hands are
pinched under a dirty big gibber.
Have you got a hacksaw?”
Battista’s old - ale eyes
protruded.
“They are artificial hands,” I
explained. “He lost his real
hands in the war.”
Battista seized a crowbar, and
was deep in the heat-wavy gorge
before I reached the lip. When
I overtook him, Battista’s ziff
drained sweat. On skinned knees
he chiselled Rudy’s gibber.
Rudy’s face was parchment
scab. The goanna and the
rubbery egg had vanished.
BATTISTA drove the point of
his crowbar well under the
gibber, then he and I hefted
the free end while Rudy worked
his hands out. Rudy’s hands
were like socks from a steam-
press. Battista examined them.
“Let me mend them,” he
requested.
“Naturally,” I said. I stowed
our sixteen-millimetre kit. in
haversacks, then we toiled back
to the thousand-foot contour.
“No one uses this gully as a
rule,” said Battista. “You must
be nature-cranks.”
“We are making a movie,” I
insisted. “A super pre-eminent
sensational film-feature. Ready
for television when it comes.”
“Magnificent,” frowned
Battista.
Battista fixed Rudy’s hands in
his toolshed ; then he took kinks
out of our tripod. The young
lady pasted medicated patches on
Rudy, and the caramel-girlie
treated dolls to cups of clay-tea
with nasturtium-leaf savories.
Rudy spanked his guitar, and
softly screamed a bush-ballad
which glazed the young lady’s
eyes. She hastily produced a
violin while Battista pressed
grapefruit into tumblers for us.
“What do we owe you?” I
Hskcd.
“All baksheesh,” said
Battista.
“Lucky you have such a rich
orchard,” I told him.
“The ground is pretty sterile,”
said Battista. “We barely make
it pay even though the district
lunatic-asylum buys most of our
fruit.” ,
I screwed a metal socket into
where Rudy’s hand ought to be ;
then fitted a wax crayon. Rudy
sketched bushfire sunset burning
on the graceful lady while she
fiddled Chopin’s nocturnes
against scarecrow eucalypts.
Battista nailed - grapefruit into
packing-cases and stencilled his
spreadeagled-tiger brand on each
case.
“I bet you’re proud of your
daughters,” I told Battista.
“They are my sisters,” he said.
He got in a few licks at a wire-
netting fence around prize^
(Continued on page 34)


Satirist and Forger
Imprisoned Pressmen
By NANCY KEESING
TWO of The Bulletin’s
earliest contributors —one
a staff man, one a free-
lance —shared at least one
dubious distinction: each had
been in jail. But whereas Carl
(or Frithrof) Cronquist might be
termed a professional prisoner
and an occasional journalist, the
other, Theodore Emile Argles,
was a professional journalist—
and notorious —long before The
Bulletin printed its first issue,
but was only a very occasional
prisoner; one who was prob-
ably “framed” at that.
Argles was best known to the
Sydney of his day as “Harold
Grey,” or as “The Pilgrim,” a
frequent pseudonym of his which
he later used as title to a weekly
journal he published. Victor
Daley, when he began to write
for The Bulletin, met Argles,
who was then on the staff,
became his friend, and for some
time lived with him in the same
Macleay-street boarding-house.
Daley describes the meeting:
One day I was standing at the
bar of the Bulletin Hotel, Sydney,
then kept by the late Richmond
Thatcher. A tallish, slenderly
built man with close-cut fair
hair, short moustache, thin
Roman nose, and hawk-like look
came in, and, nodding lightly to
Thatcher, said “Absinthe, Dick!”
Then he turned and stared at me
with large, light-blue, prominent
eyes. During this inspection he
held his head slightly on one
side, bird-fashion. He had, in
fact, much the air of a large,
inquisitive bird —one with, say,
the body of a crane and the
head of a bald eagle. Thatcher
introduced us. “The Pilgrim”
gave me a few long, cold
fingers to shake, and asked me
if 1 would have some absinthe.
It flashed upon me at once that
Murger and all his brilliant
Bohemians I had read about used
to drink absinthe, and I replied
that I would have some. I had
some. That casual drink was,
though I knew it not at the time,
my Bohemian baptism. After
making a few jesting remarks, "
which I thought very bright and
cynical, Grey left us; his grey-
hound, Rose, following at his
heels.
Grey, son of an Old Bailey
lawyer and a French actress,
gained his journalistic celebrity
by his attacks upon the all-night
cafes which flourished in Sydney
in the 1870’s. “What a harvest
for the sickle of the satirist! The
satirist arrived,” said Daley,
describing how his friend, single-
handed because there was no
other writer at the time either
capable or courageous enough to
help him, succeeded in arousing
the authorities, until they shut
the cafes with “a violent,
virtuous bang.”
Grey published his most
virulent attacks himself: first in
a series of weekly pamphlets,
“The Devil in Sydney,” in which
his strictures took the form of
rhymed couplets, and then in
“The Pilgrim.” Here he holds
forth in prose;
The Cafe Blind, then, is, I
should think, the most dangerous
“Midnight Temple” in the city. It
is not exclusively a gambling-
house, it is not pur et simple a
brothel, it is not merely a refresh-
ment house; but freely partakes
of the virtues of all three. The
proprietor, Monsieur Blind, is a
small foreigner, with a complexion
like verdigris, and a nose like
a tiger’s claw This person—•
a professional nighthouse-keeper
—exhibits a skill in training the
girls he employs to do his bid-
ding which is absolutely marvel-
lous ; and I have no hesitation in
saying Iris' talents are such that
he would successfully render, in
three days, the honestest girl in
Christendom a degraded demirep.
And so on, with full descrip-
tions of the appearance of the
place, of the J.P. who procured
M. Blind his licence in return for
favors “not difficult to guess,” of
the member of the Legislative
Assembly who was conversing
with the full-blown and vicious
Madame Blind, some unsatirical
pity for a 16-year-old and still
beautiful barmaid, an account
of the methods of Blind’s staff—
the girls who poured their own
drinks on the floor while getting
their clients incapably drunk.
In “The Devil 'in Sydney”
Monsieur Blind is equated with
Lucifer in verses which are a
hotch-potch of social and poli-
tical satire.
In a section entitled “The
Idyll of Sir Hungry Parkes” Sir
Henry’s debts and his preten-
sions as a poet are held up to
equal ridicule;
With hang-dog air, a sturdy form
appears,
Whose age might be some forty-
seven years;
His hair is snowy and his beard
is grey,
His legs unshapely and his feet
are—splay;
His forehead high, and that light
■ in his eyes
That cunning intellectual implies.
His nose is large; the nostrils
wide distended.
And on his face a shifty pallor
blended
With a dull smile, which said, it
seemed to me,
“I’m pleased to be in such good
companie! ”
Then saying as he shook hands
with a demon—
“ Scotch whisky warm—with just
a taste of lemon!
What! not a drain, ha, ha!
excuse my mirth,
My credit is not very good on
earth;
But. still I thought the fiend I
knew so well
Would let me just stick up one
drink in he 11”....
I knew him well, this silly paper-
waster ;
A. politician, and a poetaster
Who, traveling to Parnassus one
* fine day,
He in a turnip field did lose his
way;
And ’mid those esculents did sing
his loves,
Mistaking turnip-tops e’en for
those groves
Parnassian, which, dull rogue, he
could not see
Were never destined for such
fools as he
By the time Grey had gained
his object and succeeded in hav-
ing the all-night cafes closed,
he was in Maitland jail. The
facts are somewhat obscure.
According to Daley: “Those
who had smarted most keenly
under the lash of his satire laid
a trap for him—and he was
caught in it. It is an ugly story
long since forgotten. Let it
rest.” Grey wrote a series of
flippant articles about his experi-
ences, and from them it seems
that he was found guilty of
stealing a gold watch-and-chain.
He was “lumbered” in
Woolloomooloo, he said, and
then charged at Darlinghurst:
I then had to stand in the front
dock, the' observed of all obser-
vers, while the clerk read the
charge. I almost forget what it
was about now—stealing a watch
or the fly-wheel of a steam engine
—I don’t remember which. Any-
how I attracted a great deal of
attention. It was very pleasant.
In the police-van he had a
companion: —-
For once, however, my admira-
tion for the fair sex was tem-
pered with a discreetness border-
ing upon the retiring. The lady
who was crowded in upon me
was not a person calculated....
to inspire la grande passion. She
was an attenuated party in the sere
and yellow leaf; the expression of
her facial lineaments being a
happy compromise between a
wood-demon and a door-knocker.
His fellow-passenger wore a
most extraordinary battered old
velvet hat, ornamented with a
large brass ornament in the shape
of a horseshoe, and with an
“utterly forlorn” feather:
Suddenly we started with a
jerk which deposited the triumph
of millinery at my feet. Then,
turning to me sadly, she said,
“No larks, young feller.”
Reassured, the lady requested,
and was given, some “terbacker.”
This she chewed meditatively for
a while ; then “What yer in for,
old stocken?” she inquired; to
which Grey replied: “For selling
religious tracts upon a Sunday,
madam.”
In similar style Grey dealt
with nearly all his prison experi-
ences. Criticism of penal
methods was implicit for anyone
who liked to take him seriously,
but generally his aim was to
display his particular variety
of humor: —
My last interview with the
governor of Maitland jail was
very affecting. . , [The governor
said:] “I cannot let you go, my
dear Pilgrim, without giving you
that praise which is your just
meed. You have been a model
prisoner. In the way of evading ,
Safas? SJSSX&
verbally and in writing your con-
tempt of the. Penal Department;
stand unrivalled. Since your
arrival my life has been a burden
to me—Visions °l yellow-
toS
twfq'Sakt tffear fi he
be ridiculed in print. He bent
down to the departing prisoner,
we are told, and asked, “Am I
in the book?” Grey looked
earnestly at him and “sternly
hissed”- “Tin to vnnr n P rH”
mssea . up to your neck!
Ihe poor man murmured, “Oh,
Phil May's obituary of “The Devil in Sydney" ; THE
BULLETIN, October 16, 1886.
my God!” and vanished “with
the suddenness of a cuckoo in
a Dutch clock, and was seen no
more.”
In 1879 (the year before The
Bulletin began) “The Pilgrim”
launched a new venture;
LIFE an Original Weekly
Journal
Politics, Sporting, Literature,
Law and the Drama Conducted
by Harold Grey.
“Life,” for the first three
issues, was almost completely, if
not wholly, written by its “con-
ductor.” “Ther Pilgrim” had
verses in it, “Harold Grey” con-
tributed a serial novel and other
material, and the paragraphs
bear his stamp.
,By the fourth issue the pro-
prietors, Hampson and Gibson,
announced that the editorial
control of the journal had passed
from Grey’s hands: “His errant
fancy leads him into flights which
are not compatible with safety,
and he had been “rather too
fond of adopting the popular side
of any public question, without
duly considering whether the
popular side was the right side,”
while his habit of treading “more
heavily on people’s corns than is
desirable for a prudent
journalist,” and of undertaking
?o much work that he had no
time to check his facts, was an
embarrassment,
A small paragraph elsewhere
• th • snnnests that
th ® same SU S^ SIS mdl
Mr. Grey and Messrs. Hampson
and Gibson had had an argument
on fi sca [ as we U as on philo-
-ophical grounds. Grey, himself
announced that he was not
responsible* for any matter in
that <* subsequent issues of the
paper.
Looking back to the previous
week to discover what might
have precipitated this crisis, one
, Valley. Headed
Mtmone! -
un h/te7ruDt e S d ° Tt we^^am ° f agaiS
a fTrighted P by the voice of
M’Elhone. He is once more to
the fore with all his bad English,
his mouthing, his shocking
“form”. .. .We see him standing
on the floor of the “ ’ouse,” as
he calls it —we mark that stumpy
form, encased in ill-made clothes,
those muddy boots gigantic in
size, and in “form outrageous.”
Mr. M’Elhone is not pleasant to
look upon. His appearance is
suggestive of those gentlemen
who stand before butchers’ shops
entreating the public to r ‘buy,
buy, buy.” His features are
bovine in outline, and vacant in
their general expression, while his
hair rises straight on end like the
quills of the “fretful porcupine.”
It is part of M’Elhone’s policy to
appear always in a rage, and in
order to carry out this idea, he
invariably speaks at the top of
a vdry husky voice....
The remarkable thing is that
Grey seems only to have gone to
prison once, and that for larceny,
not for libel! But it is easy
to see how a writer of his calibre
would have appealed to J. F.
Archibald when he was engaging
staff for The Bulletin, because
of Archibald’s admiration for the
telling phrase. Archibald’s
colleague, Traill, disliked
Harold Grey, while admitting
his ability. When Traill wrote
the article which led to the
famous Clontarf libel-action (in
consequence of which Archibald
and his Bulletin co-founder
Haynes themselves landed in
Darlinghurst jail) many people
believed it to be Grey’s handi-
work, and it was said that the
plaintiffs would have been in
less haste to sue The Bulletin
had they not believed the
notorious Grey had written it.. -
Almost prophetic of the
incarceration of Archibald and
Haynes was a series of weekly
articles (six in all) which pre-
ceded this event by some five
months. The series, “Our
Prison System, “By One
Who Knows,” commenced on
October 8, 1881. An editorial
announcement explained that the
author was an elderly man, con-
versant with his subject because
he was an ex-prisoner. It was
impossible, the announcement
continued, to check details, and
because of the author's history
readers were advised to peruse
his work “with such mental
reservation as may appear to
each appropriate under the
circumstances.”
The editor (Traill at this time)
felt, however, that “the dis-
closures made may result in sub-
stantial good.” After all, it was
pointed out, in the restrained
prose suitable to a 19th-century
“scoop” of a serious nature,
“the tone of the articles will
sufficiently explain why we
decided to give publicity to them.
It seldom occurs that the subject
dealt with can be treated from
the prisoner’s standpoint.”
“One Who Knows” favored a
very different style in describing
his prison experiences from that
of Harold Grey;
It is not my intention to carry
the reader with me through the
gates, into the cells, and delineate
the whole of the prisoner’s career.
My aim is higher than that. Such
literature can be obtained else-
where.
Was this a dig at “The
Pilgrim’s” sensational articles?
He continued:— >
I must state that throughout my
imprisonment I found no single
case of predetermined tyranny:
the prisoners, as a whole, have
not the least reason to complain
of personal discomfort. Indeed,
to be truthful, by far the larger
portion are infinitely better treated
tjian they deserve. But the moral
contagion engendered is a*
thousand times worse than small-
pox.
Obviously an educated and
thoughtful man, the writer
admitted that he was guilty of
the forgery for which he had just
served a sentence of three years’
hard-labor, and made no secret
of the fact that he considered he
deserved his punishment.
The crux of his argument was
that prisons should both punish
and reform, and his most violent
criticisms were directed against
the practice of herding young
offenders (often boys who nowa-
days would be considered a
responsibility of the Child
Welfare Department rather than
criminals) in with practised mis-
creants and vicious sex-perverts.
He had revolting descriptions
of punishments meted out to
prisoners who today would be
confined in mental hospitals —if
they were insane, he said, they
should be treated as such.
Many of. the anomalies he
attacked have long since been
righted by law, some —such as
a complaint against the regula-
tion compelling a short-term
debtor to have his beard shaved
—now read strangely. Long-
term “lags” were allowed to
grow their beards for six months
before their discharge, which
made the “degradation” the more
bitter:
I have seen [a short-term
prisoner] 40 years of age actually
cry like a child because he was
shorn of his sheik-like beard....
And how that man prayed for his
beard! Ay, as I, similarly situ-
ated, would have prayed fm
mine, were ever prayers heard in
such places. The loafer and
vagrant who is supposed to be
punished by the clipping of his
beard does not care a straw,
whereas many who merely suffer
imprisonment for a row or the
(Continued on page 41)


Get more work done with BEDFORD
like most Australian Truckmen
In any line-up of trucks you’re bound to see a big percentage of
Bedfords—simply because more Australian truck operators buy Bedford
than any other make. (Official registration figures prove this).
Truckmen know that hardworking Bedfords get on with a job
quickly, economically, reliably. Powerful British Bedford saves
money on first cost, running costs and man hours.
Bedford’s design means less wear and lower maintenance
costs.
Pound for Pound, feature for feature you can’t
buy better than Bedford.
S|si*i
m
0
0
i
I
Check these important features
0 Choice of Models
Three powerful low-rewing 6
cyl. O.H.V. engines power the
Bedford range matching power
to payload throughout. Maxi-
mum torques range from 168.5
to 234 lb. ft. There’s a Bedford
for every job.
0 Long-life Engineering
The rugged Bedford chassis
frame, drive line and suspension
is engineered for each particular
capacity and wheelbase.
0 Worm and Sector
Steering
Lightness of control and accur-
acy of steering are proved
characteristics of this design.
• Driver Comfort
The all-steel Bedford cab is
three-point rubber mounted for
road-shock-freedom . . . seats 3
big men in comfort.
# Synchromesh Gears
All Bedfords have a 4-speed
gearbox with synchromesh on
2nd, 3rd and top.' Split-second
gear changes are possible with-*
out loss of engine speed.
# Hydraulic Brakes
Famous ‘Lockheed' triple-safety
brakes are standard on aU
models. Vacuum-servo assistance
on all models above 30 cwt
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
0 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase arrangements are
available for your convenience.
Ask your Bedford dealer.
0 Bedford is backed by a nation*
wide service organisation.
Check Bedford’s prices for
Chassis and Cab.
15/18 cwt. 119* w.b. £921
30 cwt. 119* w.b. ,£969
2 tons 143* w.b. £1.033
3 tons 143" w.b. £l,OBl
4 tons 167* w.b. £1,J46
5 tons 167" w.b. Q’lll
5 tons 167* w.b. £1,318
"Eaton Axle)
6/7 tons 116" w.b. £1.440
6/7 ton« 156* w>* £1,460
(All prices pin? Sales Tax)
836/36
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON BRITISH BEDFORD-AUSTRALIA'S FAVOURITE
TWO OLD MEN
I.
The rusty iron hut, the sunk slab chimney,
the china-roses run wild in grass untended,
the path gone under, the paneless windows
blank—
but they are not deserted. Not quite de-
serted.
Hidden by those pink roses, beside the
jarred grey door.
Matt Freestone sits. All day? Perhaps
all night;
for night and day are one. And looks?
If he is there at all
he watches the wild young river. Green
gorge, blue spur,
run back into the cleft sky. He drinks
the sunlight’s
mazed and heavy honey, the river’s rush,
the wrangle
of edged slate shingle on rock. His white
hair blows
round a face like a china-rose, like an old.
old child,
sins washed in river and air, mind washed
away.
And as he sits his name
becomes himself, a stone, a smooth free
stone
harassed by nothing but the flood’s brown
fretting manes of water.
And we the travellers on the road and
somewhere bound
wonder where we are bound, to what
wheel’s round—-
since he is free, not owning or desiring,
not thinking or fearing, not counting and
not daring.
Age and life lived unchain him, set be-
fore him
his time of silent freedom. What need
now to be human?'
The rose, the river shade him. He is a
stone.
11.
Old Gustav sings on Endless Creek,
“The spotted-gums are stripping down,
the yellow-box in flower again,
all as it was in the old joy
that time first made when time was long
and I a boy—and I a boy.
Love is various as the sea,
and many shapes can death put on.
May not the white-ant's love the tree?
and the strangler-fig has a woman’s arms.
Whatever made the world, it seems,
will never change till time is done.
As innocent as the yellow-box flower,
as deadly as the brown-snake’s fang,
it has the thunder’s word to speak,
and the weebill’s tiny song.
It grows in me with sorrow and joy.
It sets the cancer in my side.
And it will bring, when I have died,
the box to flower on Endless Creek
as once it flowered, and I a boy.”
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
VARIOUS VERSE
FROGS
Down in the bush beside the creek
It sounds as if the grassblades speak
In drops of dew that wheel along
•Each slender green and silver tongue.
So small a sound, so clear and shrill
Where under the dark leafy hill,
Out from earth and pool and stone,
The tiny frogs salute the moon.
So close to earth, so close to water,
Earth and water locked together.
It might be any red-brown stone
Chirping to ripples as they run,
It might be that frail cry that first
Crept out of time’s enormous waste
When bright as dew some bubble broke
And life awoke, and stared, and spoke.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE SHEPHERDESS’S TALE
Here once she lay, the wanton-minded
maid,
Letting her sun-bright lids delight in
dreams
Of ripe gold thighs. Her tendrilled hair
lay spread
Dark on the capeweed flowers, and her
head
Drowned in the sky’s blue pasture where
the sown ,
Clouds white as bone were formed by her
To portraits more than life miraculous:
Who will you be? And suddenly the air
Smelled treachery, and her cascading hair
Drifted along the wind as she was raised
By some dark stir of fear to see the far
Long loping of the wolf and boy who swam
In strengths of stirring tendons by her care
Of lambs. And there her eyes a swallow
saw.
Long, light and strong, so swift he did not
seem
To stir the silken grass he traversed in
His parallel advance. And she was stayed
To wonder on the beauty of the thin
Hide live with strength, the slender limbs,
the slim
Stone body, till the glory of it cried
With her own voice, and her mazed eyes
were lost
In his wild yellow vision. In her body
Mysteries that had no name or shame ran
fast.
Suggesting violences that fired her breasts
Until she cried again. Then he came softly
Stalking, and with stealthy eyes he sought
Her meaning; Hell cried out once more,
her arms
Dragged weakly on his corded neck. And
out
Of that sun’s cataclysm she learned a hate,
Torn-faced, torn-breasted, lone among her
lambs.
W.A,
RANDOLPH STOW.
OUT OF WINTER
Darkness shaken by the wind; winter
Beating the sree of darkness gathers
The windfall stars, unnatural harvest,
Bright bitter fruit colder than water.
Out of darkness I ask for solace
The clean, the truthful lines of winter:
And Time has shaken my mind, reaping
The fruit of pain, the fruit of grieving.
I ask the anatomy of beginnings, land-
scapes
Bared to the bones of rocks and boulders.
The simple truths of early paintings—
Births, deaths, and belief in visions.
Water content's me and the sky at even-
ing.
The promise of flowers in the air at noon-
day;
Schooled in the miracles of Fra Angelico
I await the Angel of the Annunciation.
Bare tree, bare mind swept clean of
anguish
Accept simplicities, be patient,
Await the bird in the bough, the tremor
Of life in the veins, another springtime.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
ANGLER AND ANGLER FISH
The analogy doesn’t end with line
and rod, his built-in, yours sometimes
detachable; like him you feed
on a sea floor under compressing deeps;
above you rolls the tidal air
where the white rootless islands glide
by the riding-light of stars.
Your eyes note the parable of his gasping
surprise when the Unknown hauls him out
to an alien element. In this
successful plagiarism you
present a scene in mirrors: queer fish
fishing for queer fish fishing too.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.
BRINGING IN THE COWS
Soft light infused the valley
which lies below the Pass
with that same waiting quality
water has, or glass:
so tranquil and so silent
I saw the dairyman
come down, although far distant,
holding a swinging can.
He stopped beside a white shed
along a well-worn track
and told his dog to bring the cows in,
shouting “Go away back.
Go away, go away back,
Max,
go away back.”
/
The Border-crossed-with-kelpie
sped like a long-drawn sigh
and dropped beside the cattle
with narrowed, gleaming eye.
A sound of muffled curses
fell like a sudden rain;
the man gave two sharp whistles
and shouted out again:
“Go away back,
you goat,
go away back.”
Go away, go away back.
Bring
the cows in, go away back.
O turning wheel, your rhythm
goes rolling through my brain,
goes rolling through the, country
on every hill and plain— u
how many wheel, I wonder,
turn at this time of day;
how many voices calling
a Max or Nell or Trey:
“Go away back,
darn you,
go away back.”
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
HOW TO MAKE LOVE
Take the ferocity of a starving cat
and a part of its fur;
cohere in heat to bake
and there you have her.
Oysters or—bulbs for eyes or
marble-chips or china:
sultanas may cook darker
and look finer.
Take putty-fingers in your smutty
hands
and work to warmth:
when they respond, stand
aside to harden and take strength.
Tease out a rope for wig or take
the hair
of one who came before her.
Untold, she will not care
so it make praises for her.
Dent the deep doughy bun
with finger’s dibble—
but not too deeply done—-
calyx; the navel.
Lie on the effigy and breathe in life
that it take your impression:
from dust, or rib, a wife
stands in creation.
Soon it will walk and talk;
image your own evil;
entice you into dark
on your own level.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


PERFECT
to give
to serve
to sip
Special Sweet
SHERRY
awe* 7
« a SOK*
Wp
m
the
.fasti7'
i 7
c Vft
r arfo,
.. and still only 5/6
(SYDNEY METROPOLITAN PRICE)
AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT
A Subscription to
Just fill in the following form and post it with your cheque
for 365. (12 months), 18s. 6d. (six months), or 9s. 6d.
(three months) to The Bulletin, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and The Bulletin will be posted to anyone you
name in Australasia regularly every week for the selected
period. Annual subscription to other parts of the British
Empire, £2. Foreign, £2 10s.
twelve *
Please post “The Bulletin” for the next six* months to the following
three*
address, for which 1 enclose
* Strike out words not required.
Card to be filled in:—
TO
FROM
Name
[please print]
Street
Town
State or Country
WITH THE ' FIRST ISSUE OF EACH 12 MONTHS’
SUBSCRIPTION WILL GO A “BULLETIN” CHRISTMAS-
CARD FILLED IN AS YOU DESIRE
NOTE: For our records, your own name and address should be
written in ink across the top of this form.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ATOM WAR?
During a speech to the Royal
United Service Institution, Field-
Marshal Lord Montgomery said,
in typically forthright fashion:
“I want to make it absolutely
clear that we at Shape [Supreme
Headquarters, Allied Powers,
Europe] are basing all our opera-
tional planning on using atomic
and thermo-nuclear weapons in
our defence. It is no longer a
question of ‘they may possibly
be used.’ It is very definitely
‘they will be used —if we are
attacked.’ We could not match
the strength that could be
brought against us unless we
used nuclear weapons. We have
reached the point of no-return
as regards the use of atomic and
thermo-nuclear weapons in a hot
war.”
Commenting, London
“Economist” notes that “for a
long time, as the [British] Prime
Minister has often reminded the
public, the Western world has
stood secure only under the
mushroom-cloud of the atom-
bomb” :
“And since the development
both of the hydrogen- or
thermo- nuclear-bomb, and of
the Russians’ ability to retaliate,
this security has depended in
part on the West’s superior
striking-power, in terms of more
bombs and more efficient aircraft
to carry them. The U.S. Strategic
Air Command is still the
strongest force for peace in the
world.
“It is one thing, however, to
think and speak in terms of these
broad imponderables, another to
bring the whole problem down to
earth in the detailed, intricate,
logistics of our own and other
Nato forces in Europe. Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s statement
is a public reminder of a fact too
little known, the consequences
of which are too readily-
dismissed.
“That fact is that the British
forces, like the American, are
already being equipped with
atomic weapons at a high and
increasing cost. This means that
we already stand committed to a
course of action, the end of
which we cannot see —although
we do know several things about
it. For a start, having taken
the plunge, there can be no try-
ing to scramble out in the event
of war.
“If the British and American
forces are equipped with atomic
weapons, it will be difficult to
criticise any decision to use them
when it comes to the point. This
greatly increases the likelihood
that any major war of the future
would in fact be an atomic war.”
And, as a grim undertone to
those thoughts, there is the know-
ledge that the Soviet’s atomic
development is going ahead. As
the “Christian Science Monitor”
notes editorially, “information
already available leaves no doubt
that Moscow is making rapid
strides with a very big atomic
programme. The Soviet’s nuclear
scientists are many and able and
manifestly have ample resources
at their command.”
There are, the “C.S.M.” adds,
two responses to this knowledge.
“One is a renewed impulse to
maintain the pace in the atomic-
arms race. This is elemental;
lagging is perilous. But there is
at the same time a deeper—
almost a new —realisation that,
as President Eisenhower has said,
there can be no victory in an
atomic war.
“Too long too many
Americans have assumed that
their atomic bombs were a
complete answer to Communist
expansionism. Gradually they
have learned that ‘massive
retaliation’ won’t stop infiltration
and subversion such as won for
the Reds in Indo-China. And if
their instruments of retaliation
are no longer more massive than
the Russian, while their targets
remain more vulnerable, plainly
a new search for answers is
imperative.
“The recognition that bombs
may be matched with bombs,
and that there is no salvation in
the atom, should produce a more
positive search for peace. While
relying only on agreements
which can be enforced and con-
tinuing to maintain necessary
military defences, American
policy should place more
emphasis and urgency on explor-
ing every possible approach to
peace.”
British Pledge to
Europe
The aim of the Nine Power
Conference in London was 19
find a satisfactory substitute for
the European Defence Com-
munity—rejected by the French
National Assembly—by which
an armed Germany could be
integrated into the West
European defence set-up.
The main difficulty, as with the
N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
ALWAYS WATCH YOUR GUN-BEARERS
E.D.C., was French fear of a
rearmed Germany, the French
wanting some kind of guarantee
that, in a united Europe, they
would not be dominated by a
renascent and armed Germany.
At about the last moment, when
the London show looked like
falling through, French fears
were placated by the promise,
from Sir Anthony Eden, that
four British divisions and a
tactical air-force unit vyould be
stationed on the Continent for
the next 44 years.
The London agreement has yet
to be ratified by the Parliaments
of the countries concerned;
meantime Sir Anthony Eden has
been both praised and blamed
for that promise.
London “Economist,” wary of
such a departure from traditional
British policy and regretting that
the promise was made by Britain
alone and not by the U.S. also,
considered it “a risk well worth
taking.”
Lord Beaverbrook’s “Daily
Mail” was hotly against the idea
of committing 120,000 British
youths to garrison Europe for
the next 44 years—“they are to
do so although no comparable
obligation falls on young men
from the Commonwealth or the
United States. Britain has
pledged her young manhood —
youngsters in uniform—boys
now at school and children who
are not yet born—so that the life
of a French Government may be
prolonged by a few weeks or
months.”
Those commendations and
criticisms have already been
given more fully on these pages ;
they are mentioned again as a
background to another view on
the British commitment to
Europe—that of C. L. Sulz-
berger, the able foreign-affairs
commentator on “New York
Times,”
Sulzberger’s assessment of the
British undertaking is that “it
did not represent any enormous
new departure”:
“Since the end of World War
II British military forces
stationed in Europe—initially to
occupy Germany, but later
primarily to discourage Soviet
aggression have become
increasingly tied to the Con-
tinent. London committed itself
in a series of treaties to defend
Continental positions: the 1947
Dunkirk alliance with France,
the 1948 Brussels alliance with
France and the Benelux lands,
and finally the North Atlantic
Treaty of 1949.
“Together with other Nato
members, Britain got into the
habit of pledging specific forces
each year in order to build up
Allied defences.
“For some time the British
commitment has been held at a
minimum of four divisions plus
tactical air-support on the Con-
tinent. This has been one of the
most dependable features of
General Gruenther’s defensive
army.
“Last April 14, when Sir
Anthony was trying to prod the
moribund European Army
treaty, he went further in spelling
out Britain’s undertakings. He
said his Government was pre-
pared, if E.D.C, was formed, ‘to
continue to maintain on the
mainland of Europe, including
Germany, such armed forces as
may be necessary and appro-
priate to contribute a fair share
of the forces needed for the join*
defence of the North Atlantic
area.’ He regarded the obliga-
tion as of ‘indefinite duration.’
“Thus more than five months
before [the London conference]
Sir Anthony stood pledged, not
only to retain Britain’s current
four divisions plus tactical air-
commitment on the Continent,
but also to place a good part of
this under supranational foreign
command.
“There is absolutely no doubt
that Sir Anthony’s declaration
[at the London conference],
despite its lack of anything
essentially new, was a
tremendously successful diplo-
matic coup. It gave a great lift
to the sagging morale of Europe
and made possible agreement to
rearm West Germany. It fore-
stalled the danger that a dis-
illusioned and impatient United
States might start withdrawing
from the Continent. The possi-
bility of panic was avoided.
“That all this .was accom-
plished without any new
sacrifices by the British is to the
credit of their ability.”
The European Army
As things stand at present, the
“integration of a German armed
force into the complex scheme of
European security” must wait—
for a few months, at least —on
the approval of the Parliaments
of the Nato countries concerned.
Meanwhile, as “U.S. News and
World Report” observes, General
Gruenther, Supreme Allied
Commander, Europe, already has
his timetable for the integration.
According to that schedule, the
first German soldiers will go
into uniform in 1955 ; in 1956
the first German division will
be trained and equipped; in the
early part of 1957 the first
German fighter-bomber wing will
be ready; and at the end of
1957 “all 12 of West Germany’s
projected divisions will go into
the line, boosting by 50 per cent,
the ground combat-power of
Nato on the central front, from
the Baltic to the Alps.”
Turning to the past, “U.S.
News and World Report”
comments that “in less than four
years Nato has built an impres-
sive holding-force in Europe.
But, by itself, it is not enough”:
“When General Eisenhower
took over in April, 1951, he
could not even talk by telephone
to his northern commander in
Oslo without going through the


America on Wheels
It was reported recently that
one of the biggest problems
facing teenage American students
was where to park their cars
during school-hours, and that
would seem to be supported to
some extent by the following
figures, quoted by the Richmond
(U.S.A.) “Times-Dispatch” from
For Sale
MX. IRVINE (Near Mt. Wilson).
“TAIHOA,” HIGH-CEABS LONG-
ESTABLISHED GUEST HOUSE or
MOUNTAIN HOME, with 50 acres,
including fully - grown garden,
avenues of chestnuts, walnuts,
poplars. Rich volcanic soil. Spring-
water, sewered, 64 miles from Sydney,
or will sell with 10 acres. Apply—
H. HAMILTON MOORE & CO.,
Solicitors, 7 Wj*nyard Street,
Sydney. BX 3144.
J/Ae ALL-BRITISH
(oiwtii)
§teti)art
From
25/
to
65/-
w
£
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
u/ITU TUP
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTIX LONDON
“That’s just what I wanted!”
When a man says that, you know you’ve bought the
right gift for him. And that’s what every man says
when he finds a new pair of Stamina slacks amongst
his Christmas presents.
Comfortable, perfectly fitting, smartly cut and beauti-
fully finished, Stamina slacks will give your menfolk a
happy, relaxed Christmas.
Give quality presents. Give Stamina slacks.
dcjf
OLTnai't
oppimdlei
-IN 3 HIGH QUALITY CRUSADER CLOTHS :■
MELANGE Ideal for Summer Wear.
VENETIAN GABARDINE —Always Smart.
Both the above lines available in either ‘self-supporting
or ‘belt-looped styles.*
SUPER WORSTED —in the new Stamina A-1 De Luxe; the
latest Trouser with the leather belt, zipper front, para waist-
band, etc.
ASK FOR | m
otomiaa
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER C
Soviet switchboard in East
Berlin.
“Now, over the phone from
his desk, General Gruenther can
issue orders swiftly and secretly
that, in a matter of minutes, will
set in motion 1,000,000
combat-ready troops and 5000
planes to meet attack along
3000 miles of Soviet periphery.
“On the vital central* front in
and near Germany the 22 active
Nato / divisions outnumber in
manpower and excel in fire-
power the six Russian field-
armies massed behind the Elbe
River.
“A surprise Soviet attack,
without prior build-up from
Russia, would even now invite
disaster for the attacking forces.
However, with prior build-up
from the east, the Russians in 10
days could unleash as many, as
75 divisions for a drive to the
Rhine.
“To counter this potential, and
to assure time to mobilise Nato’s
reserve divisions. General
Gruenther has long been con-
vinced that the West must do
two things: be prepared and
determined to use atomic
weapons against Russia’s larger
concentrations; put 12 German
divisions in the centre.
“The German divisions now
seem to be on the horizon. As
now planned, West Germany
will have its own Defence
Ministry and General Staff, and
will train its own troops.
“From the start, however, the
German officers will be
integrated into General
Gruenther’s Shape (Supreme
Headquarters, Allied Powers,
Europe) near Paris and into
French Marshal Pierre-Alphonse
Juin’s Central Command head-
quarters at Fontainebleau v
“Under General Gruenther’s
guidance, plans drafted under
the stillborn European Defence
Community will be revised, so
that the Germans will be
grouped from the start in mobile
units trained and disposed for
atomic-age warfare.
“When ready, the German
divisions will be grouped with
U.S., French, British and Dutch
divisions into an International
Corps. This corps will be com-
manded by two Nato Army
groups, the northern one under
a British general, the southern
under an American. Both groups
will be under Marshal Juin, who,
in turn, receives top strategic
directives from General
Gruenther.”
“Automobile Facts and
Figures”:
In 1953 $13,000 million was
loaned to individuals for the
purchase of motor-cars for
personal use; replacement parts
and accessories sold were valued
at $l9OO million ; $6OOO million
was paid in special taxes by high-
way users; and vehicle-owners
paid more than $3600 million in
insurance-premiums.
Production of motor-vehicles
in the U.S. in 1953 exceeded
7,323,000 units worth more than
$ll,OOO million. Threequarters
of the world’s passenger-car pro-
duction is in the U.S., which has
58 million cars, as against 25
million in the rest of the world
combined. Thirty-five million
American families (70 per cent.)
own cars.
“Wonderful as it is,” the
“Times-Dispatch” adds, “the
motor-car is not above getting
out of whack 41,388,000
motorists ‘called for help’ in
1953. Principal causes of break-
down, in order, were tyres, 23
per cent.; batteries, 22 per cent.;
and ignition, 14 per cent:
“Unfortunately, too, the
motor-vehicle is subject to
misuse. While traffic-deaths per
100 million miles travelled hit an
all-time low last year (7.1), the
actual number of deaths was up
—to approximately 38,300,
“Perhaps one way that this
number could be reduced would
be for automobile-manufacturers
to give a little more thought to
developing new safety-features
and a little less to building more
power "and speed into the
vehicles.”
British Aircraft
The British aircraft-industry,
lately congratulating itself on
invading the U.S. field with the
sale of 40 Vickers Viscount
turbo-prop, airliners to an
American company, has sud-
denly found itself at the other
end of the stick with the
announcement that the British
Overseas Airways Corporation
is looking with interest at some
American aircraft.,
The medium-range Viscount
has a more-than-comfortable
position in its field, but the posi-
tion is more complicated with
long-range planes. In this class,
as London “Financial Times’'
notes, “there are three
competitors”:
“The,Douglas DC 7 C is an
American piston-engined air-
craft, now in production, for
which some of 8.0.A.C.’s com-
petitors have recently placed
extra orders. But, according to
present ideas of the developments
likely to take place in the next
few years (even setting aside the
Comets), it is on the verge of
obsolescence.
“Next there are three versions
of the British Bristol Britannia,
the last of which —on present
showing likely to be available by
late 1956—is a long-range
aircraft.
“This aircraft has already been
subject to unfortunate, but
unavoidable, delay in the
prototype-stage, and will now
have to undergo the new water-
. tank test. Also its rate of
delivery is at the moment a
matter of planning, not per-
formance.
“On the other hand, when it
does come it will presumably
have the advantage of being the
best-tested aeroplane of its class
available. Its prospective per-
formance is good. (There is a
fourth version, with even better
performance, which should be
available from 1958.) And
8.0.A.C. (if all goes well) will by
then have had experience of
operating the two earlier marks.
“Finally, there is planned the
American Douglas DC 7 D,
which is to be powered by Rolls-
Royce turbo-prop, engines, of
which not even the prototype has
yet flown.
“8.0.A.C.’s solution is to put
its faith in the Britannias:
indeed, for the moment there is
nothing else to do. But plainly
it cannot run the risk of being
left in the lurch again, should
something go wrong with them.
It is therefore maintaining a close
interest in the Douglas DC 7 D ;
and it would not be surprising if
later on —especially if the
Britannias are subjected to any
further delay—it placed some
orders for it.
“Anyone who disputes this
policy must be able to show what
alternative is available consistent
with the corporation’s primary
duty of providing competitive
long-distance air-services,”
Some have disputed that
policy, insisting that the British
concern should be forbidden to
take any interest in a particular
American aircraft. The conse-
quence of that stricture, the
“Financial Times” suggests,
would be that “in a few years’
time 8.0.A.C. would be equipped
purely with British aircraft”:
“These aircraft might be pro-
viding, as they probably will,
excellent, economic and regular
service. But if it is known that
8.0.A.C, has not exercised its
free technical judgment in buy-
ing them, what will be the value
of the advertisement?
“Indeed, the worst service that
can be done to the British air-
craft-industry is to suggest that
it needs the protection of a State-
owned airline purchasing on the
political orders of the Govern-
ment.
“The best -service that can be
done the industry now is to make
sure, as is being done, that the
setbacks will be met with new
and more rigorous tests, so that
the aircraft are not merely
superior in specification to their
rivals, but also superior in the
trials to which they have been
subjected.
“Then if they are bought by
8.0.A.C. acting on the best
technical advice available to it —-
then indeed the purchase will be
worth something in advertise-
ment-value.”
Various Voices
Sir Anthony Eden: “Com-
munist tactics may be different,
but so far the fundamentals are
unchanged. Real progress in
diplomacy is most often the
result of perseverance. Take
tjme, take trouble. If you
negotiate with a man who is in
no hurry and you are in a hurry,
you will lose out every time.
This, I am sure, is true of
negotiations with the Communist
Powers.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “If
the human-race wishes to have a
prolonged and indefinite period
of material prosperity, they have
only got to behave in a peaceful
and helpful way towards one
another, and science will do for
them all that they wish and more
than they can dream.”
Chancellor Butler: “Poten-
tially the British Commonwealth
is .the most economically
powerful family of nations the
world has ever seen. We [Britain]
must be prepared to put more
investment into the Common-
wealth.”
Winthrop W. Aldrich {U.S.
Ambassador to the U.K.): “We
on our side of the Iron Curtain
are determined to waste no time
in beginning the process which
we hope will change atomic
swords into atomic ploughshares.
If the masters of the Soviet
peoples mean anything at all by
their new professions of peace,
they will not long delay in join-
ing this practical action for
peace.”


ms
II
i
m
fI
\
m
6
m
m.
mm
m
mi
fZ :'
‘ You asked for Benson &. Hedges cigarettes, Sir ’
Where fastidious attention to detail goes
without saying, where tradition brooks
no trifling with standards firmly laid,
BENSONandHEDGES cigarettes, made from
the finest of fine tobaccos, reach their
own congenial setting, to mark each and
every occasion . . .
F
DF
D
IT IS NO MERE COINCIDENCE THAT
BENSON & HEDGES CIGARETTES ARE TO BE FOUND IN
ALMOST EVERY FAMOUS CLUB, NOT ONLY IN LONDON
BUT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson & Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET ■ LONDON • W
tbw/ls7
lettuce. I pocketed our brandy,
and for the caramel-girlie read
aloud from Lomas the Locust
and Flora the Floury baker with
plenty of pictures.
\X7E had dinner for five on turf
** terrace: cheese capsicums
and leftover fowl.
“Did you leave your folk in
Europe?” asked Rudy.
“We are orphans,” said
Battista. “Mother died in an
air-raid. Father’s head-injuries
were severe, but he brought us
to Australia, We knew he could
collapse any time. He disap-
peared about a year ago. We
never found the body.”
“Where you from?” I asked.
“Shprechen zee frenchee?”
“Something like that,” said
Battista.
We had shredded salad, black-
berry-mould and cold bottle-
juice from Battista’s own
country. I sipped and heard
bubbles drumming the roof of
my mouth.
“You like the bush?” I asked
the young lady.
“I like everything,” she said.
“Our bush develops the poet’s
soul,” I said. “The city just
fosters the mopers, the stragglers,
the strugglers, the loafers, the
loathsome, the flotsam, the
hagglers, the . . . ”
“No need for that,” said Rudy.
I said: “Give me campfires in
Nepean hills and bellbirds in the
billabongs at dawn.”
I sniffed a bit and sucked at
my bumper. In the glow of a
chinstrap moon the young lady
might see that my impressive
beak was tragically cocked.
“Don’t put brandy in
spumante,” said Battista.
“Listen,” said Rudy. Battista
excused himself, cantered into
the grapefruit grove and bowled
grapefruit at his lettuce-patch.
A diminuendo of thumps came
from the re-entrant.
“Wallabies,” explained the
young lady. “They are always
after rmr lettuce.”
“It’s a free country,” I said.
“ ’Roo-skins are worth a
guinea apiece,” said Rudy.
“We keep an old Army rifle,”
said the young lady. “But you’re
not supposed to shoot ’roos.”
“Army rifles are illegal,” I
said.
Battista came back to the table
and sat down. “It was a big
’roo,” he said. “In the dark it
looked like a naked man with a
feather on his head.”
The* young lady wrapped an
Italian shawl over Rudy's
shoulders. “He’s not a cripple,”
1 said.
“Yes, I am,” said Rudy.
“Well, don’t dwell on it,” I
said.
A FTER Battista had lifted us
in his utility to the highway
junction he gave us a parcel of
prize lettuce. He swerved back
along the gravel track. Rudy
and I, with Venus on our backs
like a searchlight, walked along
bitumen thumbing every vehicle
our way. We passed a policeman
on foot carrying a long gun.
“Looking for rabbits?” I
asked.
“Easy boy,” said Rudy to me.
“What?” said the policeman.
“Don’t mind my friend,” said
Rudy. “He’s the least worst of
my mates.”
The policeman smiled. “We
are searching for a loony,” he
said.
“Till now,” I said, “no loonies
have we noticed.”
“All right/’ said the policeman,
“What’s wrong with the
loony?” asked Rudy.
- “Just non compos mentis
explained the policeman.
“Psycho loco neuro cocoa," I
translated.
“We’ll get him in the end,”
said the policeman.
“Somebody’s bound to,” I said,
“Hooroo,” said the policeman.
He gestured with the long gun
and turned off into the mulga.
A urTnrtr ,nx,r , •
MELBOURNE couple in a
Punel-van took us aboard.
We piloted them into hot con-
gested Sydney. They dropped us
in the ghetto behind the Cross,
and we took refuge in our filthy
flat. There was a letter from the
landlady inviting us not to spit
“ Why-y-y, Warder, there's no chimney for Santa Claus!"
out of windows. There was a
love-letter from the disciple of
Islam next door. There was a
card left by a William-street
creditor saying how numbed he
was by the dull ache of finding
us not at home.
On a tip-up table I pinned
carbon-paper on which Rudy
brushed silver lettering. I
arranged lighting, reverse-
cranked our camera for double
exposure, and branded the title
Tigah Kuntree over sunlight
writhing elastically on swallow-
nests.
I put a frosted bulb under
Rudy’s glass drawing-board, and
he smeared booze-eye green and
seasick saffron on mica sheets
for animated cartoon to be cut
into Tigah Kuntree. I took our
exposed reels through the tizzy
tepid tangle of the Cross to
William-street where a creditor
from the States handled smuggled
overdated film with no guarantee.
“Heard the latest?” asked the
creditor.
“There’s nothing new under
the neons,” I told him.
“The police are hunting an
escaped lunatic,” he said.
“They always hunt someone,”
I told him. I gave him the reels.
I went back to our filthy flat,
unwrapped Battista’s lettuce and
sat in hot water reading the wrap-
pings. The wrappings told a
reporter’s story of a grim man-
hunt featuring a frothing
frenzied psychotic desperado
who was impounded last year
for glaring ferociously at the
gendarmerie. He eluded his
warders this week by hiding
among empty grapefruit cases on
the tray of a truck. He wore
inmate’s garb, said the reporter.
I dozed and dreamed of
verdigris snake on lawyer-vine.
I woke wearing newspaper across
my collarbone for kalsomine
shroud. My fingers and toes were
stale waffles made of corned-
brisket. The bath was a bunk on
a bottle-oh’s cart in driving sleet.
My bumper was under my
tongue,
I spilled on to glacial tflework ;
crawled on trembling knees to
where Rudy worked under the
threatening arm of a cantilever
lamp. I patted his ankle.
Rudy gripped the flask
between his knees, ripped out
the stopper with his teeth, and
dashed brandy into a saucer on
the feltex. Brandy tasted like
congealed caterpillar-blood. It
went down like broken glass.
I woke again when the sun
burned my tongue. I ate a
lettuce-leaf and pulled on slacks,
Rudy still worked. One minute’s
animation uses fourteen-hundred
drawings. Like me Rudy can
work steadily - Unlike me he
often does. «
VyHEN I left our filthy flat
1T the Woolloomooloo Moslem
prayed acrobatically on the
welcome-mat. An elderly man
with a beret, an easel and a
goatee ate some jetsam from our
garbage-bin. In William-street
I called on the creditor from up-
over and picked up processed
films.
“I sat up all night,” said the
creditor, “struggling with times
and temperatures.”
“Yairs,” I said.
“Ten pounds-worth,” he said.
“Criminal,” I said. I gave him
a share in our profits redeemable
when we have profits to share.
Back in our filthy flat I
harnessed a razor and brush to
Rudy’s arm - stumps, then
threaded our popshop projector
to screen the rushes for editing.
Rudy looked at the screen in his
mirror while he lathered a five-
day beard left-handed.
We saw frill-necks taking run-
ning dives, possums jerking from
treetop to treetop, redgums
battling mistletoe and moulting
streamers, itchweed in bloom,
cormorants underwater after
crays. There was a lizard with
a tongue of blood-curdling blue,
a stick-insect on a brandy-bottle
and then the telephoto of the
goanna on the stringybark.
“Let’s see the goanna again,”
said Rudy. I doused the lamp,
braked, rewound and ran it
through again. The telephoto
advanced background and dis-
solved haze.
“There’s a man!” said Rudy,
“See him?”
“Yairs,” I blinked. “Probably
a wallaby or a bird.”
For enlargement I took the
projector back to the hall door,
bounced the beam off bathroom
mirror, then off wardrobe mirror,
A corner of the picture splashed
distortedly across kitchenette
ceiling. I ran the goanna through
three times without burning the
film.
Something distant moved.
Assuredly. A shag across a crag,
a grass-tick across an earhole, an
afterthought across a sullied
conscience. “A loony across a
cave-mouth,” I said.
“Paranoia,” said Rudy.
“Him?”
“No, you.”
“Mate,” I said. “The loony
is amuck.” I showed Rudy the
newspaper story afloat in muddy
bath. “Someone ought to warn
Battista, He’s a decent bloke.”
“Someone ought to protect
those girls,” said Rudy. Yairs;
someone ought to.
“You better forget that young
lady,” I told Rudy. “She was
only being sorry for you.”
I phoned the police. The
police wondered what we did in
the bush. Trespassing? Lighting
fires? Taking wildflowers? I
regretted my precipitancy.
“I speak from Tigah Kuntree
Utmost Ultra Films Remuner-
ated,” I said. For reference I
gave the address of the William-
street creditor remembering he
had no visa, no import-licence
and no right to use a residential
cellar for industrial purposes. I
struck him off our list of duns.
THE police gave us two heavy
healthy policemen smelling
of dubbined leather in a big car.
We were on Hume Highway
before pubs opened. Rudy had
the temerity to ask for a smoke.
“Careful,” I whispered. “We’ll
be lumbered.”
Beyond Picton the policemen
pulled the car under wattlebark
and parked. We four stumbled
sweatily down a slope of brittle
bracken to yesterday’s lunch-
spot. The policemen unbuttoned
tunics and revealed what those
bumps stand for. One police-
man chalked crosses on sand-
stone. The other policeman stood
on footprints of our tripod and
sighted a prismatic compass at
the stringybark. I picked up a
warped arrow and dug at my
teeth.
.We four marched on the
policeman’s bearing past the
stringybark. The goanna was
not on deck. Something had
nibbled Rudy’s caked blood.
Silent as sugar-ants we crossed
stifling gully floor. Yabbie-shells
crouched in dry craters. Water-
gums bore driftwood overhead.
A splash on treacle-sandstone
dried out as I looked.
We stopped about a hundred
paces before a cave in the
crumbling gully-wall.
“It’s a cave,” I said. “In the
crumbling gully-wall.”
The policemen assumed the
lying-load position in dead
ground. A pawpaw and charcoal
moth battled dandelion calices.
I picked up an archer’s splintered
bow and flattened the moth.
Through the gully whistled
black swans with voices like rusty
hinges.
In the cave-mouth leaned a
three-oh-three with oily wood-
work. Rudy speared me gently
with his hook. I said: “Ugh.”
Rudy coiled behind a rock. I
looked at the cave.
The three-oh-three wore a
straw hat over open-sights and
looked hard at me. I stretched
my arms overhead and stood on
my toes.
“I’m a kangaroo,” I shouted.
The bolt slammed ; the ejected
round somersaulted goldenly.
The gunman caught the round,
rammed it deep in the magazine,
pulled out the bolt and put the
bolt in his pocket.
“I thought you were a
kangaroo,” said Battista. I bent
my fingers to a relaxed curve
and smoothed my hair. One
policeman took Battista’s rifle,
detached the magazine and
extracted every round. The other
policeman counted ’roo-skins
pegged-out for drying, and
entered the total in his note-
book. He signed initials on
every ’roo-skip,
“You coppers earn your
salaries,” Battista told me.
“No need for flattery,” I said.
\IUE climbed to the grapefruit
** orchard where the young
lady served a freshly shaven /
gentleman with late breakfast.
He had a creamy linen square
tucked into stiff Italian collar.
His clothes were eaten with rust-
mould, but they were ironed and
brushed. The caramel girlie rode
to Banbury Cross on his knee.
On his weather-beaten bald-head
was a white vee of unsunburnt
skin the shape of a crow’s
feather,
“Have you seen any strange
characters?” asked a policeman.
The gentleman did not stop
eating.
“Please don’t disturb our
father,” said the young lady.
“He isn’t very well”


INDIRECT APPROACH


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cop the Lot
At the last State election the present
members of the Victorian Parliament
were not conscripted. They volunteered
to serve the people for the existing
salaries when they nominated for election.
But now, without the consent of the
governed, they violate the pact they
made with their electors and increase
their salaries!
In Parliament on November 10 the
Premier (Mr. Cain) admitted that “the
increase of the Premier’s salary repre-
sents a rise of 37.4 per cent, and that of
the Deputy-Premier to £4500, 46 per
cent. Ministers’ salaries will be raised
from £2750 to £3500, an increase of 27.7
per cent., Assistant Ministers’ 47 per
cent., the President and Speaker 41 per
cent., the Chairman of Committees 46
per cent, and the Leader of the Opposi-
tion 80 per cent. The Deputy-Leader of
the Opposition is to receive an increase
of 70 per cent., the leader of the third
party 36 per cent., Government Whips
39 per cent.. Party Whips 40 per cent.,
metropolitan members 38 per cent.,
urban members 32 per cent., inner-
country members 49 per cent, and outer-
country members 55 per cent.”
It reminds me of a radio “quiz” called
“Cop the Lot,” in which participants win
small fortunes for knowing and doing
very little indeed. —E. J. H. (Vic.).
Address Unknown
Where do people like “Kayenne” (B.
1/12/’54) get the idea that the P.M.G.’s
Department functions, or should function,
for their private benefit? Or that rules
and regulations might be waived willy-
nilly to meet the whims or ohiissions of
individuals?
A letter addressed in the first instance
to “common letterbox or agent” is not
officially recognised for redirection be-
cause such an address is often, if not
usually, temporary, while the regulations
governing the redirecting of mail are
framed to meet the requirements of per-
manent residents who have first observed
the obligation to lodge with the post-
office concerned a completed form stating
their new address and the date they left
the old one. This goes to the sorter
(usually the postman himself at a subur-
ban office), who intercepts future mail on
its authority and shunts it in the new
direction.
“K.,” as a receiver of “hundreds of
letters yearly,” and having lived for years
“in a remodelled old house with a common
letterbox,” should long ago have fixed
in a place convenient to the letter-
carrier his own box or container (prefer-
ably locked) bearing name and number
or other designation of his portion of the
building. Then his mail would have been
redirected, at his written request, to any
spot in the world. Such houses are
rightly considered by the P.M.Gr. to be
flats pr separate places of dwelling and
therefore should be supplied with indi-
vidual letterboxes.
Actually, the onus is on the landlord
to supply the boxes, but, failing this, a
tenant should first help himself if he
wishes the P.M.G. to help him. In the
protection, delivery and redelivery of
mail-matter (and machinery relating
thereto) the Australian post-office ranks
second to none. — Postscript (N.S.W.).
“Kayenne” described my own experi-
ence exactly. And there is another queer
thing postal officials do that puzzles me.
I have a box at the post-office in a large
Melbourne suburb. When a registered
letter is addressed to me a card is placed
in the box stating:
SECOND and FINAL NOTICE
The word “second” implies a “first,”
but when I protested to the postmaster
that 1 had never received a “first” (or
any previous) notice, he wrote that “this
is the regulation practice and has always
been carried out at this office.”
Now, at last, I know the meaning of
“The first shall be last and the last first.”
—Tas. (Vic.).
Birds and Bulldozers
Before the last war part of the levies
paid to the N. S. Wales Government by
sawmillers was used as a subsidy for the
construction and maintenance of roads
and highways. The Main Roads Board
was thus assisted by the Forestry Com-
mission.
Now, however, the Forestry Commis-
sion retains all the money paid in levies
or “royalties” and has purchased great
assemblies of earth-moving and road-
making equipment. With this machinery,
and a large staff of engineers and sur-
veyors, roads are now pushed into the
densest forests and through what were
formerly the most inaccessible parts of
the bush. The bulldozer and all its
mechanical relations have become familiar
creatures of the forests.
The forest-worker and sawmiller —at
first highly critical of the new policy be-
cause it robbed country shires of one of
the most dependable sources of income
and thus led to serious deterioration of
roads outside the forests —have been quick
to see the benefit of the change. Excel-
lent forest roads now lead in a skilfully-
planned pattern to every corner of the
State forests, so that men can be carried
quickly and easily to any working-site,
while the cost of transporting the fallen
logs and the time taken to do it have
both been greatly reduced for the miller.
The advantages, too, in the control of
forest fires are obvious.
At the same time,
the change has
brought little but
regret to the natur-
alist and bird-lover.
The roads allow for
closer inspection of
the forests, and it is
now much easier to
travel into the heart
of the bushlands.
But the price of this
easier travel is that
the birds and animals
have steadily re-
treated before the
ruthless progress of
the bulldozer.
Nothing is quite
so harshly imper-
sonal as this giant
machine in the for-
est. One is amazed
at its astonishing
ability to manoeuvre
in almost impossible
terrains, but appalled
by the great sweep of
destruction it makes
as young trees,
tangled vines, grass
and shrubs go down
before the blades.
Here wefe the
haunts of Australia’s
wildlife, the play-
ground of some of the rarest and
most wonderful birds. Terrified by
the roaring of the iron monster,
marsupials of all species and sizes race
past; lyrebirds sweep in startled flight out
of sight; flocks of brilliantly-colored
wood-pigeons shadow the newly lighted
jungle as they leave; scrub-turkeys flee
the forest where no noise but the mocking
of their neighbors ever disturbed their
busy mound-building.
The timber must be brought out and
industry must go on, but it’s a sad price
to pay.— E.y.P. (N.S.W.).
Forgotten People
t a ...
The Arbitration Courts award of
margmal increases gives enormous rehe
munity whose financial position is pretty
desperate. It includes the engineers,
business administrators, accountants
inkers lecturers professors
and the like who make up what was once
called the “middle-income group ”
They haven't complained much about
the “new order,” which calls so heavily
upon their intellectual resources, and yet
pays them so poorly. They have few
organisations to put their points of view ;
unionism somehow or other has never
appealed to them. Their sense of fitness
proscribes militancy and they have
always been intolerant of demagogy.
For two centuries or more these people
" You’ll have to keep away from poker-machines for a while."
have been the hard core of civilisation.
They have represented the gentle way of
living ; never given as a group to ostenta-
tion, they have a decent pride in their
station in life, as they have also striven
for accomplishment in whatever they did.
Crisis has never found them wanting. In
war they have come forward willingly ;
in peace they are the builders and the
innovators. From their ranks come those
with most of the ideas for relieving the
burdens of industry and commerce and
increasing efficiency.
They rear their families in a good,
clean, social environment; they have a
sense of independence and they don’t
look for Government assistance. Rotary
and Legacy know them very well, as do
most charitable organisations. They have
civic pride and they are always prepared
to sacrifice something in order to con-
tribute to community welfare. They are
good people and we need more of them,
but unless something is done to relieve
them of financial stress and to recognise
their talents adequately their numbers
will fall away.
The following table indicates their
position compared with that of lower-
income groups:—
Per
cent.
In-
-1939 1954 crease.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Federal Basic
Wage .. 3 15 0 10 18 0 191
Worker .. 4 11 0 12 0 0 164
Fitter .... 5 16 0 14 13 0 153
Design
Engineer .. 7 16 0 15 0 0 92
Electrical
Engineer .. 810 0 16 16 6 98
Chief
Engineer .. 15 0 0 30 0 0 100
Accountant .. 13 0 0 24 0 0 84
Warehouse
Supervisor 12 0 0 22 0 0 83
Bank
Manager 14 0 0 27 0 0 93
University
Professor .. 17 10 0 32 14 0 87
Scientist .. 712 0 15 13 0 106
That table, of course, is variable. It is
based upon sampling, taking what a
position paid in 1939 and what the same
position pays today. Several conclusions
can be made:
First, the incomes of the middle-income
group have not risen correspondingly
with the basic wage. Second, there is a
levelling-down effect on the standards of
living of the middle-income group.
Third, the executive and professional
positions in industry and commerce are
rapidly becoming unattractive. Why
should a young man spend four or five
years studying to get a diploma or degree
and t^ien be P a *b £Bl3 10 s - a Y ea r when
a waterside worker at Rockhampton can
eara £lOlO a year for a 32.4-hour-week?
>' t 0 problem rests with
Governments and
h chea p a „d so should frel
rf If , he position is not righted
P social consequences will be
g Y. consequences could
* T v (r . n
be worse.-D. J. K. (Q.),
Gun-happy
Victorian firefighting authorities
are again issuing their usual warn-
jn gs against the exceptional bushfire
threat presented by the lush growth of a
record wet November. One threat they
haven’t mentioned is the fat-headed city
vandals who go out shooting with ,303’s
and .22’s and, disappointed that they
haven’t pinked a rabbit, turn their atten-
tion to watertanks and similar con-
spicuous features of the rural landscape.
Lately they have been selecting tall
bushfire lookouts upon which fire-
watchers sit for months surveying an
immense stretch of forest and reporting
by radio the first indications of an
inferno. One Tree Lookout, near
Bendigo, has had its roof punctured and
17 panes of glass shattered by idiots
testing their marksmanship.— Nakh (Vic.).
Government Motor-cars
In these days of thousand-million-
pound Budgets such trifles as Rolls-Royce
cars and Daimler saloons are, no doubt,
regarded as chicken-feed.
The beautiful Daimler limousine
bought by the Federal Government for
£BOOO and used by the Queen on the
Royal Tour was sold to an exporter of
rabbitskins for £3300. He sold it to a
circus for an undisclosed price. The car
had only done 8500 miles and, naturally,
no car was ever better maintained or
more carefully driven. The car —18ft.
long, black and canvas-hooded —is cer-
tainly a regal vehicle in every sense of
the word. Panelled in mahogany and
upholstered in selected red leather
(morocco), it has electrically-operated
windows, radio-phone intercom, system
and a chrome-plated tool-kit.
Now, it transpires, a new car is needed
for the Governor-General, to replace the
15-year-old Rolls-Royce which was pur-
chased eight years ago. What, one
imagines, could be more suitable for his
Excellency than the Daimler recently
used by the Queen? But, no, the Federal
Government has purchased a new six-
cylinder Rolls-Royce saloon for the
G.-G.’s use.
No wonder the taxpayer squirms.—
Ceg (Vic.).
Suicide of Cricket
An unshakable belief in the English
mind is that Australians take their cricket
with deadly seriousness, particularly the
Test-matches ; that they go into the field
determined to win by hook or by crook.
English players, on the contrary, are
believed in England to have a sporting
attitude to the game. Well, if they have
it is completely hidden. Cricket is not


m
mz
m ti
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts., H. V. Lawry,
Sydney. Manager,
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
v.; v
SKY
D
P
iiii
:
■
SSSi
I
£
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS PTY. IT#,
merely a game to the average English-
man ; it is something in the nature of a
religion.
Every newspaper of importance (except
perhaps “Vogue”) has a correspondent
reporting the tour of the M.C.C. team
now with us, and their demeanor is that
of war-correspondents with an invading
army: anxious, and when things are not
going well, gloomy. The cost of this
reporting must run into many thousands
of pounds.
I don’t suggest that the Australians
take a frivolous or even light-hearted
view of the Tests when the fight is on.
They do their best to down the other
side ; but they are not unduly depressed
by defeat, nor does the Australian public
or press treat this as a national disaster.
In fact, there was something like bore-
dom with the years of Australian
supremacy ; and when Freddie Brown’s
M.C.C. side, the West Indians and South
Africans were here they were astonished
by the obvious support they received
from onlookers and newspaper-commen-
tators. This was so unaccountable to
them that Brown was resentfully brusque
to an Australian pressman in Brisbane
who wished the challengers well. He
considered him to be insincere, if not
patronising.
These commentators, including Aus-
tralians (by-lined as experts), are largely
to blame if the old light-hearted spirit
has gone out of the game in Australia.
There is too much emphasis on the num-
ber of runs on the board rather than
on the manner of their making. Young
players are admonished if they chance
their arm a bit and look for fours. They
are “not sound.” There is the opening-
batsman fetish —it would appear that his
obligation is to stay at the wickets with-
out trying to score unless a gift-ball is
handed to him —and players are lectured
on the sinister peril lying in the ball out-
side the off-stump: it should, be left
alone or else it may turn resentfully and
bite out the middle peg, or repose itself
in the hands of slip.
Another fetish is the “new ball,” which
is credited with almost occult attributes.
Of course there have been new balls ever
since the game was first played ; but it is
only in recent years that one has been
credited with special menace, lasting until
its glossiness has disappeared owing to
wear and tear by'impact with the pitch,
not with the bat.
As to seriousness, I recall Victor
Trumper and Clem Hill literally play-
ing tip-and-run in an Adelaide Test-
match —against MacLaren’s side, I think.
They had great fun, and there were many
“ D’you know these parts ?”
overthrows by bustled fielders until
Trumper did pay the penalty when in the
sixties. Trumper and Reg Duff, by the
way, as an opening pair didn’t wait for
the shine to go from the new ball.
Ponsford and Woodfull were quickly off
the mark, too.
I know it is the way of old-’uns to
vow that things were better in their young
days; but it is true that there used to be
more sparkle and adventure in the game
then than in recent years. Honorable
exceptions to the charge of stodge are
notably Bradman, who made his big
scores faster than acknowledged sloggers,
and Keith Miller, who believes that the
ball should be hit by the bat and not the
other way about.
It is true that negative defensive bowl-
ing has played a part in slowing-down
the game, the batsman being invited to
poke a short-of-a-length ball outside the
leg-stump into the hands of one of the
group of close-in fieldsmen. He declines,
and overs go on with no danger of a
wicket falling or of any runs being made.
There must be some answer to this
type of “attack.” If not, attendances at
Test-matches will dwindle as they have
in Sheffield Shield games. The public
cannot be expected to pay to see a trickle
of runs from an occasional accidental
half-volley on the wicket in the long,
long day.—G. Elburg (N.S.W.).
Air Beef
The Wcstralian Government has de-
cided to discontinue its subsidy on
the Glenroy air-beef scheme, which was
used to keep the Wyndham meatworks’
charges down to what Acting Commerce
Minister McLeay called “a reasonable
level ,9
The Commonwealth, which has been
paying a subsidy of a penny a P°un
on all beef air - freighted the 200
miles from Glenroy to Wyndham, was
prepared to carry on the four-year
arrangement for another- two years 11
WA co-operated. The cost to the Com-
monwealth has been about £lO,OOO a
year, and about 23,000 carcasses have
been flown in the four years.
The experiment was interesting, and
while it didn’t suggest that airways can
supplant railways or good roads for all
beef-transport, it did show what was
possible with favorable factors in rough
country. What is to happen next
remains to be seen. — Stromlo (A.C.T.).
The A.C.T.
For several years the A.C.T,
Advisory Council and civic-minded
Canberra citizens have been discuss-
ing the administrative problems of
an expanding town which is also the
centre of the national Government,
requiring works and services rnuch in
excess of most places of similar size. At
its last meeting the council (which can
give advice to the Minister for the In-
terior, who can, and often does, ignore
it) decided that self-government for Can-
berra was desirable, but at present im-
practicable.
Some local-government, however,
should be possible. Another meet-
ing will discuss the composition of
an administrative body and its functions.
Three aims, to be submitted to the Minis-
ter, are (1) some still-undetermined form
of local-government with authority to
control and administer A.C.T. affairs on
the pattern of the Northern Territory
legislation; (2) creation of a body
“which can discharge the legislative func-
tions within the proper limits of local
jurisdiction” ’, and (3) centralisation in
a single office of responsibility for the
conduct of administrative affairs, with
citizen-participation.
There’ll be a lot of talk yet before any
action.— Mugga Way (A.C.T.).


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Rosslyn, only child of Lieut.-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and. Lady Rowell, of
Kensington-road, South Yarra, was a
lovely bride in her gown of Limerick-
lace when she married Mr. John Riddoch
Poynter, Dean of Trinity College, at
Trinity College Chapel. The gown was
mounted on magnolia satin and nylon-
tulle, the matching Limerick-lace veil
held in place with a coronet of orange-
blossom. Deep-cream roses formed the
bouquet.
The Bishop of Geelong, the Rt. Rev.
J. D. McKie, performed the cerepiony.
Patricia Landy was bridesmaid, in a
bouffant frock of apple-green pure-silk
organza mounted on taffeta, the bodice
featuring a swathed neckline, the shirred-
leaf hat was in matching green. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of Mrs.
M. V. Poynter, of Adelaide, and the late
Mr. R. S. Poynter, formerly of Coleraine,
had John Rouse as best-man. The
ushers were Dr. Michael Wilson, John
Balmford and David Sisson. Following
the ceremony Sir Sydney and Lady
Rowell entertained at a reception at the
Southern Command h.q. Army officers’
mess, Albert Park.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those present at a preview of autumn
and winter fashions presented by Ecstasy
Creations thrilled at the beauty and
quality of many of the fabrics woven in
Australia from Australian wool. The
fabrics came from mills in Melbourne,
Sydney, Castlemaine and Geelong. One
soft-wool fabric, “crepe Mornay,” in
soft pastel-shades, came from Yarra Falls
mills. Novelty worsteds with horizontal
weaves were from Tissus Michels of
f Sydney.
The collection was influenced by over-
seas designs brought back by Miss
Barbara Hughes, who recently visited the
salons of Europe and America. The
“H”-line adapted in these fashions
emerges into a soft silhouette, which
Ecstasy calls a “new gentle-look.” Coats
were mostly wide at the shoulders, taper-
ing away towards the hemline. Many
featured the shawl- or coachman-collar.
One coat was of black-and-white mohair-
curl, the coachman-collar edged with
black looped fringe. On the collar was
a tiny pocket edged with black velvet.
Velvet, in jewel colors, was used
to make a range of coats. Royal Red
was a straight-hanging coat with wide
mandarin-sleeves. Mignone, a misty blue,
was cut on princess lines, and Bois de
Rose was a wrap-around style with a
sailor-collar.
Of course, jersey was featured, a black
all-wool jersey-tweed suit being pat-
terned with green clefs and edged with
green binding. Sky Mist was a jersey
frock moulded to the figure. The low
waistline giving the new long-torso look
was emphasised with a swathed cummer-
bund. In the late-afternoon frocks the
H-line, gently adapted, was seen in a
frock of Sekers wool and silk-brocade,
using two shades of blue. A wide V-
neckline was on the bodice, which, had
the long-torso look defined by a fold
of the reverse side of the material set at
the hipline, just above a full, flared skirt.
For more formal wear was a lovely short
evening-dress of green silk-organza, with
a very full skirt made over pleated
emerald-green taffeta.
Coat colors for next season: Spruce
(a forest-green). Winter Violet (an ink-
blue), Flame (a softer red). Jure (of the
berry family), Alpaca (a soft grey-
brown).
☆ ☆ ☆
The large lawns at Majella, St. Kilda-
road, made a perfect setting for the party
held for the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra by the subscribers’ committee.
Some 150 were there. Committee presi-
dent Keith Halliday was assisted by
secretary David Gale. The associate-
conductor of the orchestra, Clive
Douglas, was present with Mrs. Douglas,
she wearing a smart suit of black faille.
Victorian manager of the A.8.C., Mr.
Ewart Chappie, brought Mrs. Chappie,
who wore a sky-blue French crepe
jacket-suit. Other guests were Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, in a gold paper-shantung suit
with a fully pleated skirt and a rose-
pink head-hugging cloche ; pianist Vera
Bradford, topping her China-red velvet
Princess-coat with a smart white straw
hat; and Bertha Jorgensen, leader of the
orchestra, in a frock of black crepe-
romaine, the skirt featuring side-pleats.
Pictured here is Elizabeth Ann, elder
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Lane,
of Toorak: she has announced her
engagement to Michael, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Harry Cavanaugh, also of
Toorak. The wedding has been set for
February 3 at Toorak’s St. John’s, with
reception at Menzies’. The bride-to-be
is wearing a lovely three-diamond ring.
With Michael and his parents, she will
go to Sydney for the Davis Cup, and
then on to Queensland for a holiday
before the wedding. The home will be
in Ararat.
Final 1954 meeting of the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital was held at the English Speak-
ing Union rooms in Toorak-road. As
most of the members will not meet again
until after Christmas, the business was
followed by carol-singing by Melbourne
Grammar School choir. Tall red candles,
red gladioli and silver gumnuts and fern
were used for decorations, and after
Mrs. Van Zytveld, the president, had
congratulated members on their work
for the year afternoon-tea was served ;
the choir-boys having theirs in the sun-
bathed garden. Observed were Mrs.
M. D. Hudson and Mrs. John Brent,
recently elected as correspondence-
secretary and secretary. Mrs. Givon
Parsons, wife of the U.S. Consul, was
there, as were Mrs. J. Sullivan, wife of
the U.S. Air Force Attache, Mrs. Herbert
Allen, a foundation-member, Mrs.
Claude Deem, Mrs. R. Brumstead, Mrs.
D. Olsen (she’s from Illinois and is visit-
ing Mrs. Cal Johnson) and Mrs. George
Jasper (who was responsible for the
decorations).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Victoria League clubrooms were
gay with huge bowls of mixed flowers—
Christmas-lilies, gladioli and hydrangeas
—for the annual party. Receiving the
guests were the senior vice-president, Mrs.
lan Connell, whose cream Honan-silk
frock was worn with a tiny cap of black
ostrich-feathers ; Mrs. Robert Hamilton,
wearing a smart frock of navy-blue
crepe and matching straw cloche ; and
Mrs. R. S. Staughton, whose apple-
green silk frock was patterned in black
and white, while loops of white satin
trimmed her small white hat. Among
the guests were Sir Edmund and Lady
Herring, Mrs. Sam McKay (her grey,
white-starred silk frock topped with a
tiny white hat), Mrs. Bowen Allen
(wearing a bouffant-frock of blue-and-
white checked silk with a matching blue
hat), and Mrs. Stanley Heywood (her
blue-and-white checked gingham frock
worn with a large natural-straw hat).
i ☆ ☆ ☆
A cheery luncheon-party was held at
the English Speaking Union clubrooms
in Toorak-road, South Yarra, by mem-
bers of the Union Council. In the
absence of the president. Sir Owen
Dixon, Mr. Max Dietrich deputised, and
was accompanied by his wife, whose pale-
brown broderie Anglaise frock was
topped with a smart black coat and worn
with a small black velvet cap. Lady
Scott wore a mustard lightweight-wool
coat over a printed-silk frock, and her
large straw hat was in mustard tonings.
Mrs. Gerald Bacon chose a black crepe
jacket-suit and small black-velvet beret.
Mrs. James Alston looked attractive in
a white pique frock; the red buttons
trimming it matched her large straw
hat. Others present were Mrs. Colin
McKay, Mrs. W. J. Wark, Pam Middle-
ton (secretary of the Younger Group of
the E.S.U.) and Patricia Gibson.
SYDNEY
Santa Claus is back again, roaming the
streets and reigning in the stores. There
are many variations of him—fat, short,
scrawny, tall, some grave old plodders,
a few gay young friskers —but they’re all
clad in red robes and white fur and all
very, very hot in the Australian summer.
There have been murmurings about the
unsuitability of the old European Santa
for our climate, and perhaps suggestions
that something typically Australian
should be introduced (a swagman was
one idea) are not so absurd. We have
Australian carols, why not an Australian
Santa Claus?
The Santa we know is not “old Eng-
lish” at all, but an American of Dutch
extraction! The legendary St, Nicholas,
or Santa Claus, whom the early Dutch
settlers took to New York, was first
given his present form —reindeer, sleigh-
bells and all—by Dr. C. M. Moore, a
professor of theology who, in 1822, wrote
the poem “The Night Before Christmas”
for his children. When the poem was
later published the Santa described in it
caught the public imagination and became
the figure we know.
The Father Christmas who had for-
merly stood for the spirit of Christmas
in England was a much less benevolent
figure, interested only in eating and drink-
ing, red-nosed and slung about the middle
with puddings. Santa Claus refined him,
endowed him with magical qualities,
made him the embodiment of generosity
and goodwill, and absorbed him in the
process.
Santa Claus has been described as the
patron-saint of Christmas, although he
has no part really in the Christmas story.
As St, Nicholas he was very popular
as a patron-saint, being best known as
the patron of schoolboys and of the
maiden in search of a husband. He is
also the patron of haberdashers, mercers
and pawnbrokers, appropriately enough.
Modern educators, some of the clergy
and many harassed parents would like to
see the end of Santa Claus, because, it is
said, he makes it necessary for parents
to lie to their children, distracts attention
from the true spiritual purpose of
Christmas, and costs a lot of money. It
seems impossible to do without him,
however —perhaps all he needs is a
change of costume, a new accent, and a
different outlook on his job.
Mrs. H. Marshall, wife of the general-
manager of the Bank of N.S.W., had the
pleasant duty, as president of the bank’s
Women’s Auxiliary, of presenting a
cheque for £2000 to the president of the
Royal Blind Society, Mr. Justice Maxwell.
The auxiliary has done sterling work for
the the £2000, which represents
the year’s net earnings, is the best figure
yet. Presidents of the auxiliary are, by
tradition, wives of the successive general-
managers of the bank, and the auxiliary
members are the wives of bank-officers.
Photo by Monte Luke.
The flood of parties is almost swamp-
ing the town at present, with the teenage
gatherings outnumbering all others.
Among them was noticed the party which
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Pratten gave for their
son Tony and daughter Prue at their
lovely Pymble home, where a special
dance-floor was put up on the lawn which
slopes down to the swimming-pool, and
where Prue wore white organza, pink-
satin-striped and sashed, when, with her
parents and brother, she welcomed about
130 guests from Frensham and the
University.
The end-of-school parties included
that given by three girls from the Rose
Bay Convent for 130 of their friends at
the Royal Motor Yacht Club,, the young
hostesses being Camille Donnellan, Marie
Flynn and Sue Walker (Casino); and
among the children’s, parties was the
one aboard H.M.A.S. Rushcutter for the
children of the ship’s officers and com-
pany, while notable in the grown-
ups’ parties was that given by Mr. and
Mrs. George Falkiner at their home,
Tokay, Bellevue Hill, for Mr. Falkiner’s
sisters, Mrs. Ernest Burton, from New
York, and Mrs. Enid Nelson, of Hawkes
Bay (N.Z.).
☆ * *
A growing feature of Sydney life is
the interest taken in the music-clubs
flourishing in the suburbs and nearer
country centres. Classical music, original
composition, light-opera, Gilbert and
Sullivan, jazz and jive, all are beginning
to play an important part in suburban
life, and this diffusion of the enjoyment
and understanding of music is steadily
making life in Sydney richer and more
meaningful.
During the week 450 people gathered
to hear a beautiful concert arranged by
the Manly Music Club for their Christ-
mas-party. The Sydney Male Choir, con-
ducted by Mr. Lyndon Jones and assisted
by soprano Brenda Holloway and bari-
tone Robert Bickerstaff, gave a pro-
gramme, which included the “Hallelujah”
chorus, appropriate to the Christmas
season. Guests-of-honor were Sir Frank
and Lady Berryman, and host and hostess
were Alderman James Anderson, presi-
dent of the club, and Mrs. Anderson.
Guests included the Mayor of Manly,
Alderman Mervyn Payne, and Mrs.
Payne, Mr. and Mrs. Reg Maisey, Mr.
and Mrs. Cobden Parkes, and Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Twigden.
Mrs. Twigden, who is honorary music-
director of the Manly Club, was hostess
at the Christmas-party of the Music
Circle of the English Speaking Union, of
which she has been honorary music-
director since its inception 22 years ago,
The party was held in the Union’s
new Elizabeth-street rooms, and Lady
Hallstrom, who was guest-of-honor,
spoke to the 150 members present of the
great musical talent there is in Australia
and the beautiful voices which this
country has produced.
The delightfully light-hearted pro-
gramme given by Mary Adams and James
Wilson (their duet “Ah Still Suits Me”
is becoming a feature of this city) created
a happy atmosphere and everyone joined
in the carol-singing that followed.
Co-hostesses with Mrs. Twigden were
Mrs. Alec Keeling (just returned from
her third trip abroad), Mrs. Persia Porter
and Mrs. A. L. Stack,
☆ * ☆
Returned to the Sydney scene by the
Orcades after journeyings abroad were
several members of the fashionable
world, home for Christmas and full of
interesting comments from overseas.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, who has been
away for nine months on a business-trip
with her husband, said she thought the
H-line could be adapted for many types
of figure, and that it looked particularly
pretty on the tall and slim, Mrs.
Dekyvere herself looked very attractive
in a black wool-suit by Michael of Lon-
don when she arrived in Sydney; she
wore with it a hat of black melusine with
a sloping brim and no trimming. By the
way, Mrs. Dekyvere chose “The Teahouse
of the August Moon” as the most charm-
ing play she saw abroad, which is inter-
esting to Sydneysiders as it is to be pro-
duced here next year by J, C. Williamson.
Mrs. Noel Vincent, who spent most of
her six months abroad with her mother
at Monte Carlo (but also visited Pans
and London), said that long hair was
becoming increasingly the fashion over-
seas, but that the wild and straggling
locks were worn only by the very young;
fashionable women wore their hair in the
chignon style. Mrs. Vincent commented
on the beautiful evening-shoes she saw
made of colored feathers (£5O a pair), but
said that she herself would not wear the
H-iine.
Mrs. Evelyn Crossing also returned to
Sydney in the Orcades during the week
with her daughter Judy, after having a
most delightful 10-mortth holiday m Eng-
land, where Judy made her debut and was
presented to the Queeti in June.


a
"" y m\
IYH
I m
K^IIUM
m
More
Power
Less
Fuel
with |
PYROX
Bosch
Designed
SPARK
PLUGS
For full efficiency change
plugs every 10,000 miles.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
There is One really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
F
Missing Friend
itf THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA—AT GEELONG —1954 No. 44.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
TO BETTY HELEN WILLY formerly of
34 Oxford Street North Geelong in the
State of Victoria AND TO GERALD
GRANT formerly of Douro Street North
Geelong in the State of Victoria.—TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE HENRY WILLY
of 34 Oxford Street North Geelong in
the State of Victoria has instituted pro-
ceedings against you BETTY HELEN
WILLY for Divorce on the ground of
adultery and has named you GERALD
GRANT as Co-Respondent therein UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the
Deputy Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court at Geelong on or before
the Fourth day Of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and fifty-five the case
may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs.
New English
"UNIPORN"
extreme heavy-duty
horizontal—hopper
cooled
DIESEL ENGINES
4 cycle solid in-
jection. 4|in. Bore.
6£in. stroke.
Weight MOOlbs.
10 to 14 B.H.P. at
1000 to 1200
R.P.M.
Price £245
All Spare Parts
Stocked. The ideal
Diesel Industrial
Engine for driving Dynamos, Concrete Mixers, Ex-
cavators, Water Pumps, Winches, Marine Aux-
iliaries, Agricultural Machinery and Industrial Plant.
Ask for special illustrated Catalog
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
53 North George Street, Sydney.
(Established in 1906)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Cicada Concert
Over 200 million people and
cicadas welcomed the first Music
for the People concert at Mel-
bourne Botanic Gardens. The
Australian Symphony Orchestra
under Hector Crawford, the
young conductor who founded
the institution, presented
numbers requested by the public
and heartily approved of by the
cicadas, who supplied a deafening
obbligato.
The first performance of
clarinetist Ernest Pettifer’s
“Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2, for
clarinet and orchestra,” got a
boisterous reception from the
insects, but once the ear became
accustomed to the din it was
possible to perceive that the
music had a nice variety of color,
and that John Amadio’s flute,
heard in the Mozart Concerto
No. 2, was as fresh as ever,
Glenda Raymond’s coloratura
soprano, heard in excerpts from
grand opera, was greeted with
respectful silence by the cipadas
—if it wasn’t a passing cloud
which momentarily stilled their
clamor, A good time was had
by all.
❖ ❖ ❖
Hurlstone “Messiah”
The Hurlstone Choral
Society’s “Messiah” returns
every year like the circus or the
Show; but the attender who
wonders why he is there again,
going somewhat self-consciously
through the ritual of standing
for the “Hallelujah” chorus, is
generally reassured by some
reminder of Handel’s genius, or
some new insight into this plain
masterpiece for plain persons ;
and it is a novelty, these days,
to see Sydney Town Hall filled
for a concert with ordinary
middle-class suburban types like
yourself, and not with the richly
dressed Continentals-with-
accents who have turned Aus-
tralia’s music into a huge
industry—suddenly you realise
that, for a great many of them,
it is certainly not their
“Messiah.”
Under their new conductor,
Albert Keats, who for so many
years has been well known as
conductor of A.B.C, Sydney
“Let my friends have two seats near the critics .”
choristers, the Hurlstone choir
gave a clear reading of the
choruses —you could understand
most of the words, which is rare
in choral performances. Their
massed fortissimos had plenty
of force. But they missed the
feeling of rapture in “Unto us
a child is born”; just as the
orchestra missed the ecstasy of
the following “pastoral sym-
phony.”
Margaret Moore brought to
“I know that my Redeemer
liveth” and her other solos the
style of the actors who set out
to break up the old school
of Shakspearian declamation;
Florence Taylor sang the alto
part well and feelingly in the
old style: both were compara-
tively small voices for the huge
hall. The rather light bass of
Robert Payne rang out his long
and difficult florid passages with
something better than ease ; his
performance had the startling
effect of controlled speed, a hard
and brilliant finish. Ronald
Dowd, alone of the soloists,
filled the hall easily, and added
to his clear tenor diction and
intonation such a religious
fervor as to make you forget he
was reading it all from his
music-book.
In the interval, through the
semi-evening-dresses and lounge-
suits and dinner-jackets of the
choir in the corridors for a
breather, strode a narrow-
hipped young man in tight
khaki shorts and bright shirt,
barelegged and barefooted, with
a complete inch-long growth of
black beard. “Could it . . . ?”
murmured one of the ladies-of-
the-audience to her consort.
“Never!” he said. “Still, he
might pass as John the Baptist.”
*l* ❖ ❖
Borovanskys
Anyone who hasn’t taken in
the Borovansky Ballet during its
current season at Sydney Empire
might well catch the final pro-
gramme —a colorful, non-stop.
Stravinsky - Offenbach - Tschai-
kowsky whirlwind, with note-
worthy solos from a dozen
or so dancers and with the stage
continuously crowded with
kaleidoscope support.
The brilliance of Peggy Sager,
Kathleen Gorham and Paul
Grinwis does not eclipse many
sparkling * highlights from the
other dancers. Kiril Vassilkovsky
is a pitiful Petrouchka, and then
the very devil of a devil in “Los
Tres Diabolos”; Paul Ham-
mond, in his usual role as the
Charlatan in “Petrouchka,” gives
that ballet most of its meaning,
later dances as a Miser in Hades
in “Los Tres Diabolos,” and
then as a somewhat predatory
Puss-in-Boots in “Aurora’s Wed-
ding.”
Bruce Morrow is mocking,
satirical and fiendish as a Cap-
tain of the Devils, aided and
abetted by Aina Reega as a stun-
ning little she-devil; Tom Merri-
field and Bruce Morrow turn on
some spectacular leaping as the
Grooms in “Petrouchka,” and
again, with Ron Paul, as The
Three Ivans in “Aurora’s Wed-
ding.”
John Auld makes a good mer-
chant on a bender with a brace
of gipsies in the street-scene in
“Petrouchka” ; in “The Three
Devils” he dances both wryly
and wistfully as the philosophic
Devil, creating the part com-
pletely with a long look and a
shrug of the shoulders —he rarely
fails to get the personality of a
part across the footlights. Ray-
mond Trickett makes the most of
his opportunities for romantic
dancing in “Los Tres Diabolos”
and “Aurora’s Wedding” and
crops up as the devil in
“Petrouchka,” but fails to give
that brief and Ibvely little dance
the sinister touch the story
requires.
Raoul Celada, remembered
particularly for his romantic
dancing in “Eternal Lovers” and
“Beau Danube,” and for his
clever humor as the Aristocrat
in “Candide,” dances here with
gentle warmth as Prince Desire
in “Aurora’s Wedding”—his
light, firm handling of Peggy
Sager as the Princess makes her
seem like eggshell-china, an
impression heightened by the
hidden steel in Miss Sager’s fine
and delicate dancing.
Kathleen Gorham’s Poupette
in “Los Tres Diabolos” is Miss
Gorham at her best —every role
she has danced rolled Into one —
and her pas-de-deux with Paul
Grinwis, as Falsacappa, the mag-
nificent Seducer-Devil, is ballet
at its best —emotion, mood,
technique, story-telling perfectly
blended and exquisitely done.
♦>
The Borovanskys move out of
the Empire on December 22, to
be followed by two Armand
Perren shows on ice—“ Puss in
Boots” in the afternoon and
“Rose Marie” at night.
Artbursts
Christmas Hamper
Sydney Macquarie Galleries'
Christmas exhibition is rather
like one of those hampers the
grocers offer at this season,
where you have to take half a
dozen bottles of very doubtful
sweet sherry to get three decent
bottles of beer and one of
Scotch.
The Scotch, though rather light
on the palate, is undoubtedly
Arthur Murch’s “Yellow Dress,”
one of his charming beach-
scenes with mother, child and
young girl in a harmony of quiet,
fresh color.
The beer, admirable as far as
it goes, is Russell Drysdale's
portrait of an outback type in a
shirt without a collar, but with
the inevitable stud shining hope-
fully for the day when he does
get dressed to go to town. One
might question the quality of the
paint; it is murky and looks like
varnished wood; but the
portrait, with its wicked,
humorous eye, is alive.
Alison Rehfisch’s pattern of
Berrima landscape would 1 pass
for a pleasing light cocktail; J.
Carington Smith’s Whistlerish
“Evening by the Derwent” is at
any rate Whistlerish; and there
are such well-established vintages
(though not here at their best) as
Lloyd Rees, Roland and
others. Sali Herman’s country
store with the whitewashed
dunny may be of some value as
a bit of desolation, but chiefly
interested the present commen-
tator as being the first known
painting to immortalise the noble
words “Bushells Tea.”
Michael Kmit’s shallow
“Children” and P. Haefliger’s
nice bright abstract, which in
spite of its niceness and bright-
ness might as well be absent as
present, may be counted among
the sweet sherries.
Chinese Art
The second annual Chinese-
art exhibition of the Australia-
China Society at the Kozminsky
Galleries, Melbourne, shows no
novel features that could be
put down to the Revolution.
The Chinese craftsman is still
content in his porcelain and
cloisonne to plod along the well-
worn track his forefathers trod
before him, and if his work
hasn’t the quality of the great
periods of the Sung and Ming, it
is no worse than it was before the
political changeover.
Talkies
“The Moment of Truth”
In this beautifully-acted
French film at Melbourne Plaza
Michele Morgan is the actress
wife of Jean Gabin, a doctor so
extraordinarily like the devoted
medico in Chekhov’s story “La
Cigale” as to suggest unconscious
collaboration.
The wife, bored by her seem-
ingly humdrum husband,
becomes infafhated by Daniel
Gelin, a gimcrack young modern
artist who paints frightful
pictures in the usual Bohemian
Paris attic; who hasn’t a bean
to bless himself with, but who
believes that his wonderful per-
sonality will win the day against
the husband. He buys a wreck
of a home in the country and
invites his girl-friend to divorce
her husband and live the same
picturesque life as he does.
The wife, torn with indecision,
suspects that her husbind is hav-
ing affairs with his nurses, and
takes that as an excuse to go
off with the young Bohemian
artist. One night she pursues
her husband to a squalid
tenement in an industrial suburb,
and finds him attending on a boy
dying of meningitis. She is
smitten with remorse at her
own perfidy towards him and
resolves to give up her lover.
That notorious no-hoper is, at
that very moment, dying, having
put his head in a gas-oven. The
doctor knows this, having been
called to his and the
dialogue between the wife, who
doesn’t know it, and the husband
is one of the most poignant bits
of realism seen on the screen
since Noel Coward’s “Brief
Encounter.”


Divorce Notice
IN tHE SUPREME COURT'OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO VICKI ROBINSON late of 73 Gould
Street Bondi. —TAKE NOTICE that
REBECCA WATSON has filed a Petition
No. 3526 of 1953 praying for a Divorce
from WILLIAM WATSON on the ground
of his adultery with you You may apply
to the Court to be allowed to defend A
copy of the Petition may be obtained at
the Office of MESSRS. GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, free of charge on application by
you.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS FOR
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY;
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the
cost of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up
to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees, or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COEUEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l2O per
annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made avail-
able under the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means
are insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science
and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of application (which must be returned duly com-
pleted not later than the 10th January, 1955, in the case of
Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and
not later than the 7th February, 1953, in the case of those tenable
at the University of Sydney), and further particulars may be
obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
4#A
'ft
k
a
IB
TKt Old .'Slc'kS 1 I
WKisK-V
(EUAR
“■■SP
irtSS
The demand is for
WHITE HORSE
of course!
Smoothness, flavour and fra | ra °“®
L qualities well understood by the
Ze judge o{ this superb Scotch
mi6ky ‘ • ' Have vou tried it?
during most of his service years
did not offer opportunities for
tne avaricious any more alluring
than those of the missionary field
which so nearly absorbed him —
they wanted him to go to
Carnarvon, a fantastic and be-
nighted centre obviously much
in need of a dose of sober
Protestantism. He wrote in
honest indignation:
Fancy a town of 300 in the hinter-
land or a great continent, and the
only services those conducted by a
High Churchman of the Anglican
faith.
However, he was destined to
discipline rather than convert the
unjust. The Army absorbed
him. Having spent three
weeks of wrestling with military
science (as understood in 1906
to examiners) he was placed
third for the Commonwealth
with 871 marks, being beaten by
a Queenslander with 962 marks
and a South Australian with 931.
Still, they passed him over —
because there was no vacancy in
Western Australia. His courteous
but firm letter of protest was the
first of a large number of mis-
sives of the kind which land-
marked stages of his military life.
When the Army tried to fob him
off he had something to say
about the legal as well as the
moral aspect of his claims to be
appointed, and it was his good
luck that his letter, with its lucid
expressiveness and logical pre-
sentation of the case, fell into
the hands of Julius Bruche —
—later Major-General Sir Julius
Bruche, who was a member of
the Bar. He got his commission.
It made him “laugh to think
how he used when a youngster
to watch the gaudy staff-officers
inspecting the local infantry,
with a great depth of awe.” He
hoped his father would under-
stand clearly that he was not
going to be a drill-instructor, but
the master of a large staff of
instructors. He wrote, as well,
that “the Defence Department
will supply me with an all-lines
ticket. They also pay all travel-
ling expenses.” This munificence
seemed almost too much for
him.
Bruche asked him who wrote
his letters, and doubted him
when the twenty-two-year-old,
wearing his first pair of pips,
replied, “I did, sir.” The docu-
ments had seemed to bear the
stamp of a trained, mature mind.
Bruche became his mentor and
patron.
Thus the future Commander-
in-Chief of the Allied Land
Forces in the South-West Pacific
—in one war to be Chief-
of-Staff to a force twice the size
of any that Wellington ever com-
manded arid in the second com-
mander of one several times as
large as the victorious hosts of
the Peninsula —put on his
military swaddling-clothes.
He was at home from the
beginning, but aloof. He was
still, in his younger days, a
natural Methodist preacher and
never one of the boys. He was
well liked, but apart; “Blarney,”
not “Tom.” He worked hard.
He maintained his religious
exercises, so that he was intro-
duced to a congregation as “a
soldier of the King and a soldier
of the Heavenly King.” But
nobody ever introduced him as a
future field-marshal.
He acquired the clipped dark
“It's the extra giant family size."
moustache which suited him so
well. He married (it was charac-
teristic of his maturity of mind)
a stay-at-home girl, nine years
older than himself, whom he
accompanied bn Sunday-school
picnics. His son, Dolf, christened
Charles Middleton after an
inseparable friend of the Wes-
tralian days, was born. The son
crashed and died, an officer of
the Royal Australian Air Force,
in 1932 at Richmond (N.S.W.).
As always through his life,
Blarney early loved parties and
singing at the piano, though the
parties he had as C.-in-C. in
World War II were very different
from those of his Methodist
days.
His life was divided sharply
by the year 1911. That year he
was sent abroad to Quetta for a
two-year course at the Staff
College. He had won it by
harder work than he had ever
done in his life. He wrote; “My
lucky star is up.”
And at Quetta he flowered.
He became the cosmopolitan
officer. He learned to drink
alcohol. He made friends with
men who afterwards rose high
in the British and Indian Armies.
He passed out to go to London
to serve for experience with
British formations. And, so part-
ing with his wife, he set off for
his new assignment over the
winding route down the Sulei-
mans, never dreaming that when
he next set foot on Australian
soil six years later he would be
a brigadier-general, one of the
world’s best-known and most
promising staff-officers, with the
C. 8., C.M.G, and D.S.O. and a
host of other ribbons on his
chest, and the proud name of
Anzac in his record.
Mr. Hetherington tells the rest
of the story—as much as can be
told—of the First War, of the
years of frustration, the
boisterous years of a man who
seemed to have lost his anchor;
of his rescue and appointment to
the command • of the Sixth
Division, Second A.1.F., through
the persistence and foresight of
that other strange, able Aus-
tralian, whose reputation stands
so much higher outside his own
country than within it, Dick
Casey. They had been on the
original Anzac Staff together,
and Casey knew his qualities.
♦ * *
It is too early to judge Blarney.
He has been compared to Grant
both in his history and his habits.
But there was little in common
between them. It might be
heresy to say that Blarney’s was
the larger mind. It certainly was
more versatile.
In the ultimate his experience
of war also was much broader
than Grant’s in character. >But
their careers and natures were
so different that no comparison
lies. Grant made his reputation
in executive command-in-chief ;
Blarney as a staff man. Grant
achieved an authority which was
almost untrammelled. Blarney,
for all his titles, was never his
own master in the carrying out
of a campaign. He was always
subject to a superior strategical
and tactical authority.
In personality the two were
yidely different. Blarney was
sedate, dignified, always dapper,
broad in form, a man who would
have fitted as readily into a
British mess as into an Aus-
tralian. Grant was a weedy-
looking sft. Bin., weighing
9st. 91b., with a natural slouch, a
uniform usually like a chaffbag,
a habit of leaning against posts,
one eye lower than the other
which gave him a cunning and
furtive look. Blarney had a
strong integrity in personal
matters, Grant had not. Grant
was auburn, Blarney dark as
night. They belonged to two
different worlds. The whole of
the analogy seems to be drawn
from the fact that they both
came back from obscurity to
high command in crisis, and that
they liked their alcohol —though
in this matter public rumor did
Blarney very considerable
injustice. He had a time for
work and a time for play, and
never mixed the two.
His career was killed when
World War I ended, when he was
only 34 and the Australian
defence-system began to be
liquidated by a war-weary
Government. He came home in
1923 to be Second C.G.S., a
mere hollow shell of an office in
what was becoming a token
C.M.F.
When he returned to military
life after the disastrous inter-
regnum in the Victorian Police
Commissionership and the years
following—in which he lived on
the edge of the breadline by any
means that came to hand, includ-
ing anonymous broadcasting on
a “B” station—something had
gone out of him. He was ageing
—sixteen years older than the
resurgent Grant —slower in
thought, more stubborn, less
ready to admit that somebody
else might be right, apt to
develop enmities and dislikes
which he would have been too
absorbed in military problems to
feel in early years. He resented,
and was suspicious of the British
command under which he had
to work, found it difficult to .com-
promise, was sometimes unjust,
impolitic and unforgiving, as in
his dealings with Rowell. He
always seemed to have the air of
being a little afraid that he might
fall back into the abyss in which
he was sliding downward to old
age when opportunity burst upon
him offering a new career and all
the pleasures and thrills of plan-
ning and exercising authority
which he had Iqst in the inter-
war decades.
For all that, he was still for
most of the war the only pos-
sibility for overall command, the
staunchest heart, usually the most
equable and positive surveyor of
the military scene, in adversity
the man who seemed to have
time on his hands to keep in
touch with everything, who
could still turn to a map for a
few minutes and, with eyes light-
ing up, bring to life for some
student of a situation the
pageantry of the widest-flung
war that history had ever known
and to expound it with all the
vivid terseness of “Joshua
eleven.”
It would be going too far to
say that Hetherington has writ-
ten as good a book as could be
written about him. Probably
the only detached observer who
could do that would be his
civilian adviser, guide, brake
and conscience, Harry Aider-
man, Q.C., who carried much of
his burden for him, lifted his
larger worries from his shoulders,
simplified his problems, calmed
him down and tried to make his
peace with his foes. But Blarney
can be rated as one of the best
of Australian World War II
books and one of the most read-
able. It is a great pity that some-
body did not do as much for
Monash, White, Gellibrand.
When all the data become
available for definitive biography
of these military leaders in the
historic beginnings of Australia’s
military glory, books- like Mr.
Hetherington’s will provide in-
valuable starting-points for the
final work. For contem-
porary readers they are both
informative and entertaining.


ANZ BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
ABRIDGED STATEMENT
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
(Expressed in Australian Currency )
30th SEPTEMBER. 1954
ASSETS £A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. 32,186,871
Money at call and short notice 5,584,750
Treasury Bills Australian Government ... 3.998,384
Cheques of, and Balances with and due
from other Banks • 7,652,294
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank
of Australia 47,083,000
Investments at or under Market Value .. .. 27,003,142
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit 57,157,700
Loans and Advances to Customers and other
Accounts 194,465,275
Liability of Customers for Acceptances .. 2,963,529
Bank Premises and other Fixed Assets .. .. 4,628,090
Liability of Customers and Others on Con-
firmed Credits, Guarantees, etc 31,8J0,203
£A 414,533,238
LIABILITIES £A
Capital, paid up 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss Account
Balance... 9,868,977
Current, Deposit and other Accounts .. 357,089,529
Acceptances for Customers .. .. 2,963,529
Confirmed Credits, Guarantees, etc., on
behalf of Customers 31,810,203
£A 414.533.238
Nearly 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea and
in London.
H. D. T. Williamson, General Manager.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN DIXON formerly of Mosman
New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
JOYCE DIXON has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 8657 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th March
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. R. M. GIBSON
& MAOPHILLAMY, Solicitors, of 43
Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TO
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRALIA
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is now available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can be manufac-
tured, and supplied, to Lloyd’s Class 1 requirements, and
to meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the ASJM.E., AJ*J.-A.SM.E., and S.AA..
Codes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
tables and benches to be cleared
ready to serve the noon meal.
Men straggled in one after
another to collect their mended
garments, got them, went away.
In the midst of all that four-
ringed circus Mrs. Saunders and
her sewing-group had once
again instilled a little sense intp
this crazy men’s-world:
“Twenty pairs of socks, eight
coats, three overalls, fifteen pairs
of shorts, and one pair of
pyjamas,” she announced
wearily. “Well, that’s a splendid
morning’s work. Thank you,
lassies. You needn’t wait. I’ll give
out the remainder of the pile.”
As I walked away a meek
little man approached Mrs.
Saunders from one corner of the
dining-hall.
“Here you are, Mf. Grubble,
take your pyjamas,” she said,
thrusting the mass of blue-and-
white at him. “They.’re all strong
and sound once again, laddie.”
He blinked timidly, feeling the
garments all over, convincing
himself that no single part was
missing. Then a relieved smile
appeared on Mr. Grubble’s face.
He ceased to be merely a meek,
worried, insignificant man. His
shoulders straightened. Why, he
was taller than Mrs. Saunders,
much taller! She was a wee
person in actual stature. It was
her moral strength that made
her seem big, towering over us.
“I hope you sleep comfortably
tonight,” she said with under-
standing. “You can rest secure
these garments will never be cut
for patches.” Her voice rose to
its tone of chiding, severely
characteristic of an older woman
in the normal outside world.
“Dear knows how you ever wore
those pyjamas into the awful
ragged state they were in. . .
No, they’ll never be cut up for
patches. They’re just one mass
of patchwork as it is! ”
“Thank you kindly, ma’am,”
he said, preparing to scuttle out
of sight, beaming.
It dawned upon me then that
more people die in internment
from the lack of that strategic
bossing which comes from some-
one who cares about their
mental welfare than die from
more evident privations. During
their eight solid months of prison
life for males only, four men
had gone crazy. Nothing like
that had happened after we
women descended upon that
camp. Nobody had time for
going crazy, few, even, had time
for dying. They were too busy
shielding us from too great
physical hardships, communicat-
ing to us their inmost feelings,
or trying to dodge woman’s
eternal efforts to make man over.
like, under “levy and distress,”
are really made martyrs.
Odd to think that one reason
why our grandfathers clung to
their ziffs was a fear of being
mistaken for jailbirds.
The articles praised where
praise was deserved. There was
a prison doctor who spoke to
prisoners “as if they belong to
the same human species as him-
self (contrasting strongly with
his predecessor.... who treated
them worse than dogs).” Blame
went to the food, the anomalous
system of classification, punish-
ments that did not suit the crime
and so forth.
The authorship of “Our Prison
System” may have remained
anonymous had it not been for
an editorial note on November 5,
in which issue of The Bulletin
the second-last article was pub-
lished. Here it is, brief and to
the point:
One more will complete this
series of articles which was writ-
ten several weeks ago. The writer,
Carl Cronquist, a man of excel-
lent education, and a most accom-
plished linguist, being master of
numerous languages, living and
dead, was on Friday last arrested
on a charge of having forged the
name of the editor of this journal
to a cheque, which, being a
clumsy imitation, was at once
refused on being presented at the
bank. Many a good sermon has
been preached by a bad priest,
and we commend to serious atten-
tion the exceptions taken by
Cronquist to points in the pre-
sent working system, and to the
reflections which he has written.
The courts worked expedi-
tiously in those days, and a foot-
note to the last of the series, on
November 12, says: “Cronquist
was, on Monday last, sentenced
to two-years in Maitland jail.”
In this last article the old man
had protested that no feelings of
personal animosity had prompted
his writing—he had been justly
punished and fairly dealt with,
he said, and added:
It is no light thing in such a
city as Sydney to plunge oneself
into notoriety, after having pos-
sessed a good name and a fair
character and lost them; but if'
“Just keep concentrating, Harry!”
I were only assured that through
my instrumentality the true prin-
ciples of prison discipline would
be adopted, youth saved from
contamination while being duly
punished for their offences, and
an equitable treatment ensured
to all, I would think but little of
the sacrifice I have made.
The end of Cronquist’s rather
pathetic venture into journalism,
as far as one can trace it, is to
be found in the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” of November 8,
1881, under a heading of “Forg-
ing and Uttering.” “Frithrof
Cronquist, a Swede, was charged
with forging and uttering,” the
report began. The defendant,
with Mr. Hellyer appearing for
him, pleaded not guilty, but the
Crown evidence was damning.
Cronquist, it seemed, had been
in the habit of going to the
Derbyshire Hotel in Sussex-
street, a hostelry conducted by
another Swede, one John
Holmer. On the evening of
October 27, at about seven-
o'clock, Cronquist and another
man came into the hotel-bar and
called for drinks, the proud
author tendering as payment a
cheque for £6, signed “W. H.
Traill and Co., Bulletin Office,”
and drawn on the Australian
Joint Stock Bank. The cheque
was made out to Cronquist, and
Holmer seems not to have ques-
tioned its authenticity, but merely
to have “expressed a doubt about
being able to change it.”
Cronquist was quite mag-
nanimous at this point—he
would take 10s., he said, and
would return in the morning for
the balance.
But in the morning the cheque
was dishonored and proved a
forgery. The jury found the
author of “Our Prison System”
guilty, and he was then asked if
he had anything to say.
His reply was simple. He
had, he said, stood before his
Honor three times before, and
this would probably be his last
appearance. Drink, he said, was-
the cause of his downfall, and
it “completely drove [in the
words of the “Herald” reporter]
all moral rectitude out of him.”
The prisoner then said that since
his release from jail some six
weeks previously he had unsuc-
cessfully sought work from every
newspaper and printing-office in
Sydney, but his reputation was
so bad that no one would employ
him. In the past 10 years
Cronquist had spent, by his own
calculation, six ypars, five months
and nine days in prison, and for
that had got “the magnificent
sum of £1 10s,”
In conclusion, said Cronquist,
he would say nothing to excuse
himself, but he would ask that
he be sent to some jail other than
Darlinghurst or Parramatta, be-
cause he had pointed out “irregu-
larities in both places, and was
now about the best-hated
prisoner in New South Wales.”
The judge, after a few appro-
priate remarks about how
“melancholy” it was to see a
man of the prisoner’s worth and
education brought to such a sorry
pass because of liquor, and after
adding that he hoped Cronquist’s
plight might be a warning' to
others, mercifully agreed to
allow him to spend his two years
in Maitland.


In continued CAPSTAN
is better tobacco !
For me the Capstan blend has everything for
complete smoking enjoyment.
“The fine, mild Virginia leaf used in
Capstan’s own blend gives it the flavour and
fragrance you, too, appreciate.”
Ask everywhere for —CAPSTAN
>AOy‘-
CAPSTAN
~b('itCf' tobttcco
....
L' ... J
fm
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
206D.11.54
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in aU Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
Victorian breeder E. A.
Underwood, vice-chairman of
the V.R.C., has high hopes for
his latest stud purchase, Landau,
winner of six races for the
Queen. He paid 20,000gns. for
the three-year-old, a record price
for a racehorse secured in Eng-
land for this country. Landau
was bred at the National Stud,
but he failed in his most
important engagement, the Eng-
lish Derby, in which he was
unplaced. He also missed-out
in the Washington International
race in the U.S. when taken
there by air to be England’s
representative. Landau won’t
be raced in Australia. As he is
by English Derby-winner Dante
from English Oaks-winner Sun
Chariot, he certainly has the
soundest of credentials.
The Villiers (£3000; one
mile), highlight of next Satur-
day’s racing at Randwick, has
been won.by such top-class per-
formers as Carioca, Raconteur,
Bernborough, Yaralla, Rimveil,
King’s Head and Closing Time.
Raconteur and Carioca won at
odds-on, but this time there’ll
be no odds-on runner. It’s an
open contest, with several
chances.
Wakatu is selected to win the
Villiers from Blond Val and
Fire Dust.
In winning the Villiers last
December ex-Perth champion
Raconteur ran race-record time
(1.35 i), one-second outside Aus-
tralia’s best held by grey
speedster Silver Phantom, who
is expected to be in the line-up
in next Saturday’s Villiers.
Racing at Rosehill on Satur-
day brought no changes in Vil-
liers betting, ' Blond Val and
Carioca sharing favoritism, with
Wakatu, Silver Phantom,
Asteroid, Kev Mar and Fire
Dust the only others wanted.
On the other hand, as a result
of his runaway win in the
Christmas Cup, Tatyoon firmed
sharply for the Summer Cup.
Tatyoon won at Warwick
Farm on November 20, and a
week later was down the course
at Randwick when sent out at
3 to 1, On Saturday he had
strong backing at 5 to 1, was
always prominent, and cleared
out to win in fast time. How-
ever, his weight had dropped
91b. compared with his Rand-
wick impost, and, little more
than a pony in stature, he obvi-
ously appreciated the lighter
poundage. As he drops further
—to 7.4—in the Summer Cup
he now looks one of the best
of the lightweights in that mile-
and-a-half.
Despite Stirrup Cup’s dash-
ing win in the Rosehill Flying
in the smart time of 1.1 If, he
hasn’t firmed much for the
Villiers. Most racegoers regard
him purely as a sprinter, rattier
than a miler; he’s done nothing
to recommend him at a mile.
However, he is a consistent
winner over six furlongs, and
he defeated favorite Kev Mar
without much exertion. Love to
All’s third indicated a quick
return to best form, while Fire
Dust, though unplaced, ran a
good Villiers trial.
Apple Bay won his third race
in as many starts when he
landed the Second Parramatta
Stakes at Rosehill. His task was
made much easier when the only
other runner seriously backed to
beat him, Gay Confessor, was
forced off the course when mak-
ing the run into the straight. Gay
Confessor was taken 10 horses
wide. Stewards asked questions
and warned the offending
apprentice. Third - placegetfer.
Ninny, was last away and still in
front of only one runner at the
home-turn. From that stage she
came home brilliantly.
Those who advise bookies on
photo-finishes erred at Rosehill,
because the least-fancied of the
three horses in the blanket-finish
of the Welter got the verdict.
Books had offered 6 to 1 Oxley
(first) and s’s Top Level (third).
Corral, favorite in the photo-
finish betting, was beaten a nose,
with a similar distance between
second and third.
• *\ * *
Before the running of the
Auburn Stakes at Rosehill High
Forest looked a “paper cer-
tainty.” He won the mile-and-
a-quarter, but was lucky to pull
his odds-on backers through. He
was in plenty of bother over the
final furlong or so, and it was
only in the last few strides that
Sellwood forced him through
on the inside of Cook on
Kidarin, to win by a head. High
Forest was a minor-placegetter
in Prince Morvi’s Derby—-a
sound enough recommendation
for a Graduation Stakes.
Wilson River, a smart-
looking two-year-old colt by
Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.), quickly
won a race for owner T. Denny
and Moorefield trainer Arthur
Croall. The youngster has had
two starts, and at Randwick last
week was much too speedy for
opponents in Maiden company.
The colt is a half-brother to
Free Rule, and is closely related
to Grand Fils. His dam, Golden
Rule, goes back to Spearmint,
son of Carbine.
Winner of the Second More-
land Stakes at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, Magic Nib is a New
Zealand-bred youngster by Gold
Nib (imp.) from Happy Issue
(imp.) by Coup de Lyon, and
was bred by prominent studmen
Sir James and J. C. Fletcher,
who sold Aboukir at the same
sale. Magic Nib, a second foal,
is related to a smart English
performer, Rika, and is
descended from a half-sister to
the dam of Hurry On, crack
racehorse and successful sire.
• • * •
Raced by Sir James Fletcher
and E. Lewis, the three-year-old
Mid-day Sun (imp.) filly Sunfly
won her first race when she easily
beat Tranquil Sun and Storm
Buoy in the Moonee Valley First
Glenljervie Handicap for three-
year olds. She is trained by
E. J. Willmott. The filly, bred
to stay, could develop into a
more-than-useful four-year-old;
she is expected to win in much
better company very soon.
Tranquil Sun, runner-up, is a
son of a noted mare, Tranquil
Star (23 wins and £29,690 in
stakes).
Trained at Randwick by Bill
Kelso, Astron, a three-year-old
colt by Genetout (imp.) from
Miss Rugby by Andrea (imp.),
scored convincingly in Maiden
company at Kembla Grange last
week,
« • • •
Oldest progeny of the French
sire Damnos are two-year-olds,
and one of his first winners was
the filly Bright Jewel in the
Kembla Novice two-year-old.
Damnos was a brilliant sprinter,
winner of nine races in England
and in France. The filly’s dam,
Maderson, is a half-sister to
Barfleur, winner of the Caul-
field Guineas, and is by
Brueghel (imp.) from Creusa by
Ajax. Bloodlines include The
Trump (Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups), Victory Lad (14
wins and £ll,BOl in stakes), and
Mighty Song (A.J.C. Gimcrack
Stakes and Maribyrnong Plate).
• * He
As you don’t change a win-
ning team, the selectors have
plumped for the same 12 to rep.
for Australia in the second Test,
beginning in Sydney on Friday.
Same cap’n, same vice-cap’n.
Could be a different drink-
waiter.
In a two-day game at Rock-
hampton, M.C.C. beat outright a
Queensland Country XL Hutton
sought extra time to finish-off the
last four batsmen, which was
done with a minute to spare.
Some of the “experts” got hot-
and-bothered over Hutton’s thus
“transgressing” the rules of the
tour; but there doesn’t seem to
be any real cause for anyone to
lose any sleep over it.
The one-day match at Can-
berra, M.C.C. v, the Prime
Minister’s XI, produced bright,
breezy cricket, with the batsmen
of both teams “haying a go.”
Hassett led the P.M.’s side, and
took a couple of wickets. Hutton
also shone as a bowler. The P.M.
wants to make the fixture a
traditional one: a good idea.
“Mid-on”: lan Johnson was
skippering only his 11th first-
class match when he ably led
Australia to victory in the first
Test. He first led Victoria in
Shield games last year. Before
that, when Hassett was State
skipper, Ring was his deputy, and
officiated in his absence —as, for
instance, in the first Victoria-
S’Africa game in 1952-53. Ring’s
retirement after the last tour of
England, at the same time as
Hassett’s, gave Johnson his big
chance.
• • • •
“First Slip”: Approached by a
local enthusiast as to whether he
played cricket, a chap staying at
a hotel in a north-west Victorian
township said his name was
Brown and that he was a bowler,
and as such was included in the
team for the Saturday game. He
opened the bowling, took four
wickets, and was put in seventh-
wicket down. For the first over
or two he appeared to be all at
sea, then from a seemingly magic
blade flowed a bewildering array
of cuts, glances, drives and
hooks —he made 100 in 35min.,
and retired! The following
Friday the enthusiast was back
at the pub to co-opt him again
if possible. “Oh, he’s gone,”
replied Bung, “to Adelaide —to
play in the Test.” “To play in
the Test?” “Yes, that was
Victor Trumper. Didn’t you
know?”
“Crash”: One not to be over-
looked in the mighty cricket
records English county
cricketer S. Clark’s nine
successive ducks!
* * *
Doesn’t look as if there’ll ever
be another race between milers
Bannister and Landy. It was
hoped the pair would meet at the
1956 Olympics. Bannister now
says he’s retired, and Landy ran
so badly in a two-mile race
recently that he’s talking of turn-
ing it in, too. Bannister a doctor,
“Hop into the dressin'-room and get me specks."
Tandy a teacher, neither can now
find the time to train.
* * •
Whatever has been holding
Merv Wood back for the last
year or so certainly let him go
last Saturday, when he won the
N.S.W. championship sculls in
something very like his old style
on the Nepean River. He led
from go to whoa to easily defeat
Gordon Lawson and Peter Evatt.
Afterwards Wood said he was
only sculling to keep in nick, for
the 1956 Olympic double-sculls
with Murray Riley; “I think
I’m too old for the singles.”
Which doesn’t say much for
single-sculls chances at the
Olympics.
♦ * ♦
“Kooyong”; It’s mighty
ungallant of the press to be
ever reminding us, as Mrs.
Thelma Long regularly wins
another title, in just what year
she first won that particular title.
Wife of Colin Long, Davis Cup
doubles-player of six or seven
years ago, the lady was once
Thelma Coyne, and as such
fought out many of her earlier
tennis-battles with Nancye
Wynne, now, as Mrs. Nancye
Bolton, also still playing
occasionally in tourneys. The
pair were in those days the
finalists in most championships.
* * ♦
Freddie Dawson (10.8) tried
hard to knock-out French-
Senegalese Eddie Dione (10.7) in
the' last session of their 12-
rounder at Sydney Sports
Ground, but Eddie was still
upright at the end. Round-nine
was about the only one in which
Ed had a real bash at attack.
He did land a few in the third,
and in the eleventh also, but
without causing any discomfort
to Freddie that you’d notice, and,
altogether, Fred was so far in
front on points at the final bell
that judges Frank Hyde, Charles
Moses and Les Pearson didn’t
even have to count the score.
Same evening Samoan Fossie
Schmidt (13.4) struck Ross
Jenkins (14.6) and vice versa
even more so, Fossie foundering
more-or-less gracefully in round-
three.


ll®
<•
ms
,
: ;s
,M
ggg
m
& V
« W
Jj
* » s|
*
-v i*
M
m
;--v
m
m
im
f
wt
M
■ 8
1#
mm
y>I;W
“ ”
fii
w*m
<sm :
m
mmmm
m
Ms
iii
ilss™
llili
*v- '
■f-
••: ■;•_ . : V :■:■ • . . •••: ;•' _______. • • • •
ill
v
The future is more
than tomorrow ...
To the child, on Christmas Eve, the future is all tomorrow—
an exciting tomorrow, a tomorrow rich in promise, a tomorrow
that just can’t come round quickly enough.
But as the child grows into manhood, marries, settles down,
takes on responsibility for making such decisions as building
a house, educating his children, buying the family car—
the future becomes more than just tomorrow.
It is the span of maybe unknown years ahead, years that
can—with intelligent planning—also be rich in promise.
It is only by looking past tomorrow, too, that a country or
an industry can develop. Take General Motors-Holden’s as
an example. The size, scope and importance of their operations
have been the result, not of day-to-day thinking, but of long
range planning—planning that has involved calling into play
the creative talents of many people, marshalling materials
and resources on a vast scale, and investing millions of pounds.
Planning for the future is a continuous occupation at GMH.
It has to be when you have more than 40 million pounds
tied up in the business.
It was planning for the future that made possible the
success of Holden. It was planning for the future that induced
GMH to acquire 153 acres at Dandenong, 21 miles from
Melbourne, as an additional factory site. And it is planning
for the future that has encouraged General Motors-Holden’s
to launch yet another expansion programme involving an
expenditure of 7J million pounds to increase their productive
capacity.
This vast new expansion (the third of its kind in the post-war
years) with the benefits it will bring to the nation’s economy,
is dramatic proof of GMH’s faith in the future —of the
company’s determination to grow as Australia grows and to
ensure that the calls the people of Australia make on the
company’s products and services will be well met.
jl The future is important to GMH and to all of us. For, as
ft someone once remarked, the future is where we will spend
111 the rest of our lives.
- (
... a link in the chain of Australia's progress
~. a partner in Australia's future
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH


Reprinted from the SYDNEY MORNING HERALD August 21. 1953,
SHEEP LOSS
REDUCED
Vitamin ‘A’ Dose
Experiments
By V. G. COLE, B.V.Sc., Grazcos Veterinary Surgeon
The discovery by the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation that sheep dosed with vitamin A have
a better chance of survival during periods of extended drought
is one of the most important in Australia’s pastoral industry.
In the lean years when green grass is unavailable for
months on end the loss of weaners and of lambs at birth or soon
after runs into hundreds of thousands in New South Wales
and over the Commonwealth into millions.
Graziers generally accept the
huge losses as an unfortunate out-
come of drought and, once a
drought breaks, set about rebuild-
ing their flocks.
But research by the C.S.I.R.O.
has shown that vitamin A admin-
istered' as a drench to weaners and
lambing ewes will reduce losses
considerably.
Already widespread interest is
being taken in the drought feeding
work of the C.S.I.R.O. and it is
important that graziers should
appreciate the results are still in
the semi-eXperimental stage.
But as seasonal conditions are
turning dry in many parts of the
State an explanation of how vita-
min A deficiency occurs will give
a bettet understanding of when and
how the results of the C.S.I.R.O.
research can be applied.
SAME THING
For a long time, vitamin A
deficiency has been known to occur
among poultry, where the disease
produced is described simply as
due to green feed deficiency.
GREEN FEED DEFICIENCY
Vitamin A and green feed de-
ficiency are the same thing.
Under ordinary grazing con-
ditions, green feed is the natural
source of vitamin A but as the
grass dries off so the vitamin A
Content declines. Under drought
conditions it falls off altogether.
The C.S.I.R.O. work has shown
that the deficiency can be made
good by giving large doses of
vitamin A, which animals are cap-
able of storing in their livers and
using slowly over a long period.
The experiments mainly con-
cerned ewes in lamb and weaners.
The ewes were fed a ration of cereal
chaff and wheat from mating on-
wards and, in the first year, they
lambed satisfactorily. But when
kept on this diet and mated a
second time most of their lambs
were either bom dead or died
within a day or so. Some of the
ewes were given large doses of
vitamin A at intervals and those
which were given this treatment
gave birth to normal lambs, all of
which survived.
FEWER DEATHS
In the case of the weaners the
results were lore spectacular.
Some 250 weaners were fed on
cereal chaff and wheat plus lime-
stone. They were divided into two
groups, one of which was given a
single large dose of 500,000 inter-
national units of vitamin A, while
the other group was given no
treatment.
After seven months, 62 of the
untreated weaners had died, com-
pared with 17 of those which
received the vitamin A supplement.
During the last three months of
the trial the results were particu-
larly striking, since only four of
the treated weaners died compared
with 42 of the untreated ones.
The cost of the drench, which is
equal to about 3oz. of vitamin A
emulsion, is about 1/-.
HAY AN ALTERNATIVE
The obvious question is whether
vitamin A deficiency can be over-
come in any other way except by
dosing with vitamin A supplements.
The only foodstuffs, besides
green grass, which are rich sources
of vitamin A are carrots, green
lucerne or clover hay, and yellow
maize. Milk is also a rich source of
vitamin A, but it is hardly likely
to be used for drought feeding.
Thus, if yellow com and lucerne
hay are fed either together or
separately, vitamin A deficiency
may not occur. In the case of
lucerne hay, whether it occurs or
not will depend to a large extent on
the quantity fed and the quality of
the hay. Poor quality hay contains
little vitamin A.
In drought time, however, sup-
plies of lucerne hay and corn are
never adequate, and the main
foodstuffs used are wheat, oats,
barley, grain sorghum, and cereal
hay, all of which are very vitamin A
deficient.
Putting considerations of
drought feeding aside for a moment
it might be well to explain that
vitamin A deficiency also occurs
whenever dry feed conditions pre-
vail and often when stud animals
are being hand-fed, but the symp-
toms produced are not significant
enough to bring them before the
notice of livestock breeders.
For example, it was proved
several years ago that the fertility
of rams is lowered when seasonal
conditions are dry and that cattle
become shy breeders, leading to
infertility among herds.
Use of vitamin A supplements
under these conditions has a
definite place in the future.
Other so-called sub-clinical
effects of vitamin A deficiency are
swelling of the brisket of cattle
which are being fattened by hand-
feeding, as well as scours, pneu-
monia, and blindness among calves.
The eyesight of racehorses will
be affected if they are fed for long
on vitamin A deficient rations, as
they frequently are, but, most
important of all, their hooves
show uneven and poor growth of
horn.
These effects of vitamin A de-
ficiency are comparatively un-
important, however, because it is
simple enough to correct them
either by making sure that the diet
contains foodstuffs rich in vitamin
A, such as lucerne hay, or by
dosing at intervals with vitamin A
supplements. The cost of doing
this is unimportant.
WISE DOSING
This is not so in drought time.
First, it is not possible to pick and
choose foodstuffs and, second, the
cost of dosing with vitamin A
supplements could add up to a
substantial amount.
Nevertheless, if present seasonal
conditions continue and a drought
of several months’ duration looms
ahead of us, woolgrowers should
seek advice about dosing ewes in
lamb and weaners with vitamin A
mixtures since the results which
have been obtained indicate that
this will prevent losses of both new-
born lambs and young sheep.
If dosing is carried out wisely it
could be the means of saving many
thousands of lambs and weaners.
Past drought experiences have
shown that these are the most
difficult of all to pull through a
drought and we now know that
this is due, in no small measure,
to vitamin A deficiency.
VITAMIN ‘A’
CAN BE GIVEN EASILY TO SHEEP IN j
CORRECT DOSES BY DRENCHING WITH- 1
The findings of the above experiment clearly show that adequate
vitamin A supply is essential for lambs and weaners if high losses are
to be avoided. Vitamin A also greatly influences lambing percentages,
fertility in rams and the health of new-born lambs when breeding
ewes have suffered prolonged deficiency. The natural source of
vitamin A is green feed and if always available in abundance there
would be no fear of vitamin A deficiency. But dry pastures, so
prevalent in Australia, have little or no vitamin A value and a
deficiency of this vitamin then occurs with serious results. The value
of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ to sheep owners during dry feed
periods can be readily appreciated—High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’
supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the best pastures.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral
House or usual station supplier. Write for brochure * ~“B.”
for full information.
NICHOLAS PTY. LTD., Agricultural and Veterinary Division, 37 Swanston Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
/
A
f
K
TRADE MARK
HIGH POTENCY
‘VETEMUL’ is Australia’s original veterinary emulsion and is used
by the largest commercial poultry and livestock farmers. ‘VETEMUL’
has now been released in HIGH POTENCY form specially designed
for use by sheep owners. Each dose for adult sheep contains 500,000
international units of vitamin A which supplies requirements for 3
MONTHS. High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be given easily by
drench. One gallon of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is
sufficient for one dose each to 220 sheep (rams, ewes or weaners) or
320 lambs—only l/3d. each for sheep and lOd. each for lambs.
WARRANTED POTENCY ; High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ contains
25,000 I.U. of Vitamin A and 2,500 I.U. of vitamin D 2 per gramme,
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is sold with a warranty that vitamin
potency is as stated.
ustaousoea IStiS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS 051 A
osuluvaiv
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of book of short
poems Chunder Loo of Akim Foo. —
5958.
To buy copy of “Life International”
of June 28, 1954, featuring illustrated
article on Stamps of the World. —
5957.
Information Sought
Some information on aviator Bert
Hinkler ?
Born at Btmdaberg (Q.) on Dec.
8, 1892, he joined the Royal Flying
Corps on the outbreak of war in 1914,
served on the Italian front and was
awarded the D.S.M. for flights into
Germany. In 1919 he proposed to
contest the Australian Government’s
£lO,OOO offer for the first flight from
England to Australia, but his machine
crashed in a storm in Europe. In 1920
he came to Australia, and in Mqrch,
1921, flew non-stop from Sydney to
Bundaberg; returning to England he
was employed for some years as a
test-pilot. In Feb., 1928, Be made
the first solo-flight, in an Avrb-Avian,
from England to Australia, reducing
the tiipe from 28 days to just under
15| days. He was awarded the Air
Cross. In 1931 he flew non-stop from
New York to Jamaica (1500 miles),
then flew on to Brazil and across the
South Atlantic to Africa. On Jan. 7,
1933, Hinkler left England in an
attempt to make a new record to
Australia. His body was later dis-
covered in the Tuscan Mountains in
Italy, his plane having crashed there,
probably on Jan. 8. He was buried
with military honors in a Florence
cemetery, but his body was afterwards
brought to Brisbane.
• * * *
(7) Particulars about the “Shark-
ami’ murder-case? (2) Any book
giving full details of the case ?
(1) On April 18, 1935, off Maroubra
(Sydney), a tiger-shark was caught
alive (by design) for exhibition in the
Coogee Aquarium. It refused to eat,
and was “moody”; four days later it
disgorged, among pieces of shark and
bones, a human arm unaffected by
digestion on which was the tattooed
picture of a boxer; a piece of rope
was tied round the wrist. It was iden-
tified as that of one James Smith, who
had disappeared shortly before in
mysterious circumstances. On May
17 a shearer, Patrick Brady, was
charged with the murder of Smith.
Before the inquest there was a new
sensation—on June 12 the Crown’s
principal witness, Reginald Holmes, a
boat-builder and friend of Mrs. Smith,
was found murdered in his car near
the Sydney Harbor Bridge. There
then became current all sorts of dark
stories, of a widespread drug-traffic,
plans to defraud insurance-companies,
dismembered bodies in trunks, etc. —
all linked with the murders. After a
lot of evidence had been taken by
the Coroner, an ex-parte application
was made to the Supreme Court to
restrain the Coroner from proceeding
—on the score that a single limb
could not be considered a corpus
delicti and that therefore no inquest
could be condqeled. Upheld. In
September Brady was cleared of all
charges in the matter, and the Shark-
arm case, the facts of which no
fiction-writer could have dared to
employ in a detective-story, has never
been cleared up. (Nor was the murder
of Holmes.) (2) None that we know
of.
* * • ♦
For what purpose is the Somerset
Maugham Trust Fund awarded?
This annual award (worth about
£S4OO) is to encourage young English
writers to travel, to acquaint them-
selves with the manners and customs
of foreign countries and, by widening
their own experience, to extend both
the basis and influence of contempor-
ary English literature. Somerset
Maugham has urged that, in the selec-
tion of prize-winners, originality and
promise should be the touchstones; he
does not wish the judges to “play for
safety” in their choice. A candidate
for the award must be a British subject
by birth, resident in the U.K. or
Northern Ireland, under 35, and must
submit a published literary work in
volume-form in the English language
(poetry, fiction, history, biography,
criticism, but not drama). He or she
must be sole author of the work and
must undertake, if the winner, to
spend not less than three months
outside Great Britain. The clos-
ing-date for submission of works
to be considered is Dec. 31 of the
preceding year. The award for 1953
went to Emyr Humphreys, mainly
because of his novel Hear and For-
give.
* ♦ • ♦
What are the native populations of
Papua and New Guinea ?
Only a certain proportion have been
definitely enumerated; the total
population is only an estimate. At
June 30, 1953, the population of
Papua was approx. 393,000 (counted,
278,909; estimated, 113,800); the
population of New Guinea (including
New Britain, New Ireland, Manus
and Bougainville) was 1,143,564
(counted, 967,738; estimated,
175,826).
Brief Answers
A.M.D.: (1) The co. will accept
unsecured deposits in multiples of
£lOO. Unsecured-depositors rank as
ordinary trade-creditors after secured
creditors such as mortgages, deben-
ture-holders or secured bank-over-
draft. (2) and (3) Hire-purchase 50s.
offer better interest-return on deposits
than the banks, but a still better
return can be had from sound prefer-
ence shares. Watch The Bulletin’s
financial pages for advice on the
buying of particular shares, or con-
sult your stock- and sharebroker.
(4) As stated (B. .17/11/’54) “prob-
ably the best times to buy shares are
when there is a general fall in invest-
ment prices, when a large parcel of
scrip comes on the market to finance
probate, or when a big issue of new
shares causes the rights to a particu-
lar stock to sag.” However, “in the
case of a general fall in prices, it is
often wise not to buy at the first
sharp fa 11”... .F.D.: Figures re-
cently issued by the Commonwealth
Statistician show that a record num-
ber of 2,667,700 men and women
were employed in Australia at the end
of September (i.e., those in private
employment and in Government
ment employ but not farm-workers).
Those in Government and semi-
Government employ (excluding de-
fence services) numbered 698,000.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
W.C.: How could you bring your-
self to write so harshly about your
mother-in-law? R.D.: Humorous
recitation about a kitchenmaid went
down the sink F.D.: “Australians
All! ” —and here follow the usual
impeccable sentiments R.K.T.;
“The Bushranger” wouldn’t hold any-
one up for long S.T.: How handy
the word “pelf” is when one is stuck
for a rhyme for “self” C. 8.: It
you mean that the sun dried up the
creeks you really shouldn’t say that a
“fierce virile orb” has “dehydrated
lorn runnels” H.M.A.: The
farmer seems to know very little
about horses V.J.F.: “The Over-
coat” is moth-eaten N.L.: When
a poet says a girl is a pearl one never
knows whether it’s a genuine compli-
ment or whether he was just stuck for
a rhyme T.H.: You’re striving for
strangeness and vagueness ; and you’d
do much better with simplicity and
directness C.0’8.: Your glittering
stars, chattering brooks, Sunday
nooks and leafy glades have all been
taken out of literature H.S.H.:
Swagman, dog and dusty road all old
friends M.W.: Asking how to
improve your stories is like asking
how to make a railway engine out of
two wheels and a whistle G.C.:
Well, it’s the only poem about Joan
Murray’s baby we’ve ever seen....
K.T.: Slang used in that way merely
makes the whole thing look slipshod.
A.C.: Good theme too vaguely
and pretentiously handled J.D.8.;
Don’t want that sort of drab “real-
ism” —it isn’t real W.M.W.: ‘T
come with a skip, a hop and a jump.”
Look twice before you cross the street
into this office G. 0.5.: “Dawn’s
roseate glow awakens all the east.”
What, again? A.M.D.: If you
must write a historical, romance,
make the history plausible M.L.:
Handwriting might disguise a master-
piece for all we know V. 8.; Don’t
want material that has been broad-
cast H.L.F.: Putting a thin little
thought into italics doesn’t make it
any stronger:.. .D.J.: Excessive
moralising spoils a likely yarn.


KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision —in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
revolving at a high speed guillotines paspalum
and DANK WEED GROWTH and will cut
the grass as short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
/or free particulars and for demonstrations:
N.S.W.- GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria- GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St.. Melbourne.
MUSSSI. QTand : BUZACOTT’S (Q’LAND). LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
FA2631. Tas.: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND, LTD., Launceston. S. Austx
A. M. JOHNSON & SONS, LTD., 200-204 Grenfell St, Adelaide. W 1495 A 1824.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO.. 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
does a MAN’S job
about the place
THE LOWEST-
PRICED
GEAR-
DRIVEN
SWING
SAW
O.R
Melbourne
Can be bought for only £6B
Smaller brother to the Mobileo Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis.
You get "the lot"-LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS'
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES;
ln-built gear reduction
•fa Finger-tip control fa Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle fa Drives up to 36" blade
fa Spindle mounted on ball
bearings fa Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground fa 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs 4Vs hours on one
gallon of petrol.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
A 7 COIITH PARADE CAMPSIE. PHONE: IF 4209 - - - - TELEGRAMS;
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA -
LIMITED
MOBILCO, SYDNEY
WU 1081 (9 LINES)
ADELAIDE, PERTH
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name ••
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MERINOS AT GUNDAGAI
FEW people—in N.S.W., any-
way haven’t heard of
Gundagai on the Murrum-
bidgee: a teamsters’-halt in the
old days, and now a place
through which the modern
teamsters, the inter-State
hauliers, and other motor
travellers pour in increasing
numbers along the Hume High-
way, between Sydney and Mel-
bourne. A sort of symbol of
the great change which has
come, not only to the Gundagai
district but to all pastoral dis-
tricts in Australia.
Charles Sturt, in his explora-
tion of the Murrumbidgee and
Murray, “found” the place in
1828 ; but there were already a
few white settlers. And, of
course, aborigines—the name
Gun-da-gi meant “sinews”;
looking at the present wealth of
the district, it is not inappro-
priate.
The place, too, has a sort of
hillbilly fame, not altogether
relished by locals: soap-opera,
etc. But the dog-and-tucker-
box is more pleasing to the eye
than many a monument to
district pride ; it has a legend
and, again, is not inappropriate.
The few lines beneath the
immortalised cattle-dog put the
case with dignity:
Earth’s self upholds this monument
To conquerors who won her when
Wooing was dangerous, and now
Are gathered to her again.
There’s more to the district
than wool, of course: beef-
cattle —some famous studs;
lately asparagus-farming, which,
with better returns from maize
and a general buoyancy in
values, has upped the price of
river-flats considerably. All
these aspects are important in
themselves, and, as illustrations
of general trends, dramatic.
Maize-farming, with almost
complete mechanisation and use
of hybrid-maize, has undergone
a major revolution.
But for the year (from Octo-
ber, 1953) the emphasis in this
district has been on wool, and
more wool. It still is. About
50,000 bales (Merino and cross-
bred) went from Gundagai to
Sydney alone. The Merino-men
here consider 60’s to 65’s the
best type for their run of
country. At the wool-sales
prices for this type of medium-
fine wool from this district com-
pare favorably with prices for
wool from the famous Merino
districts - Yass (tending to
superfine). Gunning and New
England (all N.S.W.).
A word about the district:
Type of country varies a great
deal, from river-flats to hills,
but this description, by the
Department of Agriculture, may
be taken as typical:
The soil in the Tumblong (Gunda-
gai district) area belongs to the broad
classification of red and yellow pod-
soils. In this area the soil is largely
derived from slate, but there may be
small outcrops of granite.
Gundagai itself is about 900 ft.
above sea-level, but surround-
ing hills may rise > as high as
1500 ft. Only at the extreme ele-
vation would basalt be found.
There is (contrary to beliefs
firmly held not long ago) little
variation in the productivity of
the country. If anything, the
hills have a higher production-
potential, but water-storing
capacity is limited.
Water, of course, is the key
to most grazing management.
Most properties have a per-
manent supply, and the larger
properties, particularly, have
fair-sized dams in almost every
paddock. The hill-paddocks suit
the Merinos, and if the owner
has permanent running water
in these paddocks —and many
do —he has an obvious advan-
tage. But care has to .be taken
with the stocking of beef-cattle.
Tempting to put them in, but
they can diminish the water in
summer. Big Merino wethers
need a lot of water.
Unwise, too, to put crossbreds
in with the Merinos. They’re
better doers—particularly the
Border - Leicester and they’ll
pick the eyes out of a paddock.
Local graziers are waking-up
to the fallacy of thinking that
Merinos will “manage” on
poor feed in winter or summer.
There’s been a fair amount of
supplementary feeding. Wes-
tern-bred Merinos, brought into
the district, have been found to
need extra rations for a few
months until they became
acclimatised. The most pro-
gressive men feed their flock-
rams a ration of oats and
there’s an argument in favor of
feeding oats to all Merinos at
strategic times. Salt-licks
(calcium-content) are essential.
Average rainfall is 2511
points. From June to October
there is a noticeable increase.
Many of the old hands pin their
faith, from year to year, on the
March rains. After the dry
summer- and these beneficial
rains the autumn market,
especially for young sheep, is
good.
The Merino-breeder rarely
departs from October shearing
in this district. Several factors
influence him:
1. If left until later heat
brings yolk up in the wool.
2. Full 12-months’ growth
gives correct length of staple.
3. Correct time for lamb-
shearing of May-June lamb-
drop.
4. No necessity for two
crutchings a year.
5. Avoids two periods of
treatment for fly-strike.
“When do woolgrowers
relax —after shearing?” is a
common question, addressed to
such of the species as may be
seen at this time of the year
relaxing in seaside parts,
“Well, no,” a successful
Merino-man said recently.
“When every sheep—and I
mean every sheep on the place
—is dipped, round about
November, four weeks after
shearing. I wouldn’t sell a hoof
off the place, at a local sale or
at Flemington, without dipping
them. I use the spray-dip—
rotary method —now.”
November, then, is a busy
month. The programme from
November on is something as
follows:
Culling of old sheep for sale.
The wise Merino-man culls the
old stuff somewhat heavily.
Sheep that do not conform to
standard, such as those too
strong in the wool (even though
they may cut well for 1955), are
culled; often good four-year-
olds are culled, too. For
instance, on a property where
the ultimate objective is an even
type of medium-fine-wool sheep,
the above culling is essential.
Culling, and preparing for
sale, all sheep with unsound
mouths; these are offered at
local saleyards as “canners.”
Fluke is the main problem
with sheep, generally, in the
Gundagai district. But there
has been less trouble in 1954
than in recent wet years.
Drenching, with both carbon-
tetrachloride and the new finely
ground phenothiazine (for
worms in general), is pretty
important. Last month most
sheep in the district looked in
fine fettle: but, significantly,
most breeders kept to their
drenching programme.
A glance at a particular
grazier’s programme may be
interesting:
1. May-June, 1954, Merino
lambs. After culling for a good
medium-wool type, the hogget-
clip for 1955, culls were sold at
Wagga, 50 miles from Gundagai.
The Sydney market was con-
sidered unsuitable.
2. Young wether Merino
lambs, selected from this year’s
drop (they’d been in clover-
paddocks, well watered), were
offered as weaners.
3. Selected ewe weaners
were retained on the properties
for future breeding.
November, and the breeder
hasn’t received his cheque for
the year. So, by selling his
surplus sheep, he not only culls
for quality but has the cash to
buy what he wants —Merino
ewes. Although the speculator
and the wealthy man will select
“wethers every time,” the
judicious breeder will stick to
Merino ewes. For one thing,
the lamb-drop is “natural
increase” from the taxation
point of view.
In December we worry about
fires. Tractors are used to
plough—and harrow—breaks
around paddocks, crop, build-
ings, particularly where these
adjoin the main highway. The
subject of fires is one on which
it is difficult to write dispas-
sionately. But it can be said,
in passing, that the State Gov-
ernment doesn’t do all it could
do to prevent them.
The programme of Merino-
buying for 1955 is the recipe as
before. Most Merino-men in
this district are after Merino
ewes, preferably two- to three-
year-olds, early shorn, from the
west. A western August-shorn
Merino will bring him in a fair
return, despite the higher price
it may be necessary to pay, and
cost of transport. Western-bred
rams are bought to join with
the ewes.
Foot-rot wasn’t a great prob-
lem this year; the season helped,
of course, but a more general
awareness of cause and control
contributed. The local stock-
inspector has done a good job,
both with specific advice and
more general education of
graziers. Nearly Everyone has
become foot-rot conscious;
bluestone-troughs have been
put in, both in paddocks and
sheepyards, and even an
isolated case in a flock has been
followed by examination of the
mob, paring and treatment.
There was some evidence of
tick. This was overcome. Lice-
infestation was also overcome.
Mostly due to buying sheep
from other districts ; but some
of the blame rested with the
buyers, who neglected regular
dipping. They know better
now.
Travelling through Gundagai
in November, when the country
was in great heart (we had a
dry spell, but the October rains
came with a rush), a visitor
from overseas said that the
general appearance of the
(Continued on next page )
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Under the influence of the Main cycle some moderate
rains may fall on the coast and tablelands this mlonth,
but elsewhere conditions generally poor and defacient.
After the moderate rains this month, a return to dry,
hot conditions is likely. The present sunspot minimum is
continuing as the sun still remains clear of spots.
LENNOX WALKER.


Grasslands SOD SEEDER
HAS REVOLUTIONISED PASTURE IMPROVEMENT
The Grasslands Sod Seeder has proved over the past few years that it provides the most
economical and practical way of introducing pasture grasses and clovers into native grass
country. With the Grasslands Sod Seeder fertiliser and seed are placed beneath your
pasture without previous cultivation, ensuring
NO WASTE-NO RISK OF EROSION—NO LOSS OF GRAZING
3T ,
mm
m
a
I m
m
m
.y
m
PRICE
Wedge Shaped Sole.
Three Point Linkage.
6ft. SOD SEEDER. Complete for fit-
ment to your Ferguson Tiller or £lBO
David Brown 6ft. Tiller (f.0.r.)
Complete Unit, including Tiller to fit
David Brown or Ferguson £275
Tractors (f.0.r.)
Bft. SOD SEEDER to suit your .COOA
Fordson Crown Tillers ....
Complete with Bft. Crown
Tiller
Acreage Counter £5/15/- extra (Opt.)
crating charge
£375
Plus £5
AVAILABLE FOR MARCH DELIVERY
Orders have outstripped production, and we
are now booking for March delivery. To
make sure of having yours for your seeding
season place your order immediately.
Please write to us for further particulars about
pasture improvement and irrigation.
FARMING EQUIPMENT
FIRST IN GRASS FARMING
Manufactured by Machinery Specialties Pty. Ltd.
25-27 Fairfield St., Villawood. N.S.W. Phone: YU 8251/2/3
“improved” country reminded
him of England. But “New
Zealand has utilised every acre
to much more advantage than
you people have. If every type
of crop can be grown in the
district”—an exaggeration ; but
a great number can—“why
aren’t the sheepbreeders experi-
menting more on New Zealand
lines? You have the climate —
access to markets —in fact,
everything.”
Writer remarked that we
were progressing. However,
looking at paddocks that had
been top-dressed regularly, a
vivid green contrast with
untreated paddocks beside them,
seeing the depth of subter-
ranean-clover in some areas, the
lack of it elsewhere, there did
seem substantial room for
improvement. The man who
is content to follow the methods
of his grandparents is not in
the race these days.
Writer recently asked the
Department of Agriculture what
the chances wfere of growing
lucerne on the hill-slopes (it
thrives on the river-flats). The
answer, with detailed advice on
sowing, seed-bed preparation,
etc., was encouraging.
For this district lucerne can
be sown in either autumn or
spring (April, May or August).
Autumn sowing allows the
lucerne to get a start on and
compete with possible weeds, but
it is exposed to red-legged
earth-mite and lucerne-flea for
a longer period when young and
susceptible. With spring sowing
it is possible to clean-up winter
weeds and avoid the longer
exposure to winter pests. Some
attack by these in spring is
almost certain, but it is not so
long before summer prevents
their activity.
Hill-growing of lucerne is
now quite a reasonable proposi-
tion. Once it would have
sounded fantastic. At Tumblong
(on the Melbourne side of
Gundagai) broadcasting super,
from planes has been carried
out with good results, even over
cleared country, to which trac-
tors and super.-machines had
good access. Geoff Moss, a
progressive grazier, was the
pioneer in this technique in these
parts.
Talking of sub.-clover—a
local man temporarily fenced-in
his clover-lands, allowed the
crop to lie undisturbed through
winter and took down the
fence after seeding. Sheep and
horses were put in to eat and
scatter the seed. The horses,
particularly, did the job very
efficiently. The seed (with
natural manure) was spread
widely in adjoining paddocks.
In conclusion; Shade is
important. Gundagai has been
known to have summers with
a temperature of 110 and
upwards. It’s blazing hot now.
And sheep, of course, need
shade. The old-timers had a
great opinion of the kurrajong
(shade and fodder), and they
were eminently right. At the
present time, however, despite
the numerous and useful white-
box (the presence of which can
be almost taken as a guide to
the soundness of sheep country),
iron barks, shrub-wattle and
others, we find it pays to sow
willows about the creek flats ;
and, occasionally, to plant that
sturdy warrior Finns radiata.
Mary Last.
Sod-seeding
The new version of sod-
seeding was pioneered and
developed by Sydney University
pasture-research team, working
in the Richmond River area
(N.S.W.). Previously a type of
sod-seeding, using a standard
combine, had been practised,
mainly in southern States ; but
University workers were faced
with the problem of seeding
through a tough paspalum-
sward, and this led to the
development of the prototype
of the commercial sod-seeders
now on the market.
The sod-seeder is not an
implement to replace all other
seeding-implements. While it
can be used as drill or combine
on cultivated land, its main
function will be as a replacement
of the inefficient method of
broadcasting seed and fertiliser
on to uncultivated pasture. The
seeding-shoes lay seed and
fertiliser as a neat band in the
topsoil; seed is well placed for
subsequent germination and
growth.
There is no point in deep-
seeding. Penetration by the shoes
to about below soil-surface
will usually result in a good
covering of seed and fertiliser.
If the soil does not fall back
freely into the furrow cut by the
shoe, a short length of 2in. chain
attached to the rear of each shoe
will track-in the furrow and
assist covering.
The main use for the sod-
seeder will undoubtedly be the
efficient establishment of sub-
terranean-clover into natural-
grass pastures in the winter-
rainfall areas. These pastures
consist usually of red-grass, wire-
grass, wallaby-grass and similar
tufted species. The implement
has no difficulty in working
through this type of pasture, and
a good germination of the clover
can be virtually guaranteed. The
proximity of the fertiliser to the
seed ensures a seedling vigor
which is never seen with surface
broadcasting on poorish soils.
Red-, white- and crimson-
clovers, lucerne and barrel-
medic all germinate freely with
this method. University workers
this year at Lismore recorded a
yield from sod-seeded vetches of
no less than 24- tons of dry-
matter per acre —no cultivation,
just seeded straight into the
paspalum-sward with the appro-
priate fertiliser and bacterial
inoculum.
Another interesting possibility
with the sod-seeder is the estab-
lishment of improved pasture-
grasses. It is quite futile, of
course, to surface-broadcast rye-
grass, phalaris or cocksfoot on
to uncultivated country. Rye-
grass germinates very freely
when sod-seeded, and so the
implement provides' a cheap and
efficient way of introducing rye-
grass into clover - dominant
pastures. Encouraging results
have also been obtained with
cocksfoot and phalaris, and it
may be that the old routine
method of thorough seed-bed
preparation for these species can
be dispensed with in certain
cases.
Some graziers have stated their
intention of sod-seeding oats into
improved-pasture country to
increase winter production. This
seems a sound idea. A mixture
of super, and sulphate-of-
ammonia, instead of straight
super., would help the oats.
Extra cost of the fertiliser should
be more than returned by the
better grazing.
The secret in sod-seeding lies
in the shape of the shoe. The
wedge-shaped sole firms a layer
in the soil, and seed and fertiliser
fall on to this firm layer, in close
contact with soil-moisture.
The sod-seeder will seed
efficiently wherever the tiller can
be worked, but obviously there
are limitations to the amount of
stone and roots which the tiller
will handle. Shoes should fit
snugly and be tracking straight.
If they are tracking at an angle,
offending tynes must be
straightened-up to bring the shoes
into line.
Claims that any tiller can be
converted into a sod-seeder are
dubious. The shoes impose a
considerable amount of side-
thrust on *the tynes, and the
more fragile types of tillers or
scarifiers, or those with a weak
spring-release action, would not
last long in tough going. Three-
point linkage is a definite
advantage in that the implements
can be lifted out of the ground
when the stump-jump action
starts working too hard. Quality
of the steel in the shoe is another
important point. Shoes will soon
wear if made of soft material—
particularly in granite soils.
No doubt the implement, like
all new implements, will be used
at times where it shouldn’t be
used, occasioning disappoint-
ment. But the principle is
sound, and experience over the
past five years with the proto-
type sod-seeders gives confidence
that the method will eventually
be widely adopted.
E. J. Breakwell.
Keyline Plan
I read with interest E. O.
Schlunke’s views on my book
The Keyline Plan, on “The Man
on the Land” page.
While Mr. Schlunke’s criticism
and doubts can be answered
quite readily from the book
itself, and by any of the many
farmers who are already practis-
ing the principles of keyline,
I am probably in a better posi-
tion to offer help.
“The magic of keyline” (Mr.
Schlunke’s words) is based on
sound natural law. An eminent
soil-conservationist in South
Africa, writing to a professor ■«£
agriculture, has this to Say:
“From a purely technical point
of view, Mr. Yeomans has based
his views on a basic geomorpho-
logical truth. It is certain
that this geomorphological
phenomenon may serve as a basis
for conservation planning in any
area where the topography is the
result of the sculpturing effect of
water-erosion. It,, would be
directly applicable in its entirety
in an area such as Richmond,
Natal.”
And, referring to the keyline
conception, and the change in
slope in the valley floor which
locates the keypoint: “In fact
the change takes place with
mathematical regularity, and for
all practical purposes may be
treated as an ordinary rectan-
gular hyperbola to the equation
XY = Z. Nature has so adjusted
the gradient at any point along
the curve that the erosion power
of the floodwater is always less
than the resistance to erosion of
the vegetal cover, by placing the
velocity of flow, the width and
depth of flow and the retarding
effect of the cover.... he
[Yeomans] is to be congratulated
on the independent evolution pf
a conservation scheme based on
the correct appraisal of natural
law controlling the local
topography.”
“The magic of keyline” then
is not, as Mr. Schlunke suggests,
something that “could” happen
on my property. It is there in
every valley-head formation to
be seen and used to advantage in
land- and soil-development.
To give another view—a
patrol-officer in New Guinea
wrote to his parents after receiv-
ing from them a copy of the
book: “Today I had a good
look at every ridge and valley,
and it is a fact —they all have
keylines.”
Neither the South African soil-
c'onservationist nor the New
Guinea patrol-officer is known
to me.
Farms are not unfortunate (as
Mr. Schlunke suggests) if they
do not contain keylines. Key-
lines belong to land- and valley-
formations. If the farms are
below the keylines, those farms
do not have keylines, but the
principles of keyline are constant
on all farms.
I appreciate Mr. Schlunke’s
coupling my name with such men
as Virgil, Voltaire, Williamson


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
OM-
|SSB
CTt*'*-
BOW®
PHO'V*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Airy particular! gladly idpplled —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: S.fO Sat J 583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
80. 712 E. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK &. STATION AGENTS
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
ms
m
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
m
YOU CAN INSTM. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
'— DISTRIBUTORS '
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.). 82 Goulburn St, Sydney.
Q’LAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Melnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St, Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland. •
‘Phenovis’ Brand of Phenothiazine
tyiMjj <s\
IN PHENOTHIAZINE IS-
FINE PARTICLES
■ )
“It was mentioned last year that very finely ground phenothiazine
appeared to be more effective than commercial grades of the drug.
Trials carried out during the year have shown clearly that large
particle size greatly detracts from efficiency ... It was also found
that an unsatisfactory commercial preparation of phenothiazine con-
tained nearly 40 per cent, of particles exceeding 40 microns and
a further 30 per cent, which exceeded 20 microns in diameter.”
—4th Annual Report C.5.1.R.0., 1952.
/I * «
4 «
. . *
. * • • .
THESE MICROPHOTOGRAPHS,
GREATLY ENLARGED,
SHOW
A. The coarse particles in
samples of old Pheno-
thiazine. s
B. The extremely fine
particles In the New
‘Phenovis.’
DF
1.C.1. GUARANTEES
80% FINE PARTICLE SIZE IN
‘PHENOVIS’ powder
THE MOST EFFICIENT DRENCH FOR WORMS IN SHEEP
Now available from your Usual Supplier
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
All Capital Cities *
Cl
■PHE.3OX.3B7*
and Louis Bromfield. I would,
however, like to put him right
on Bromfield. No doubt, as Mr.
Schlunke says, Bromfield made
“pots of money” writing
romantic novels, but he is wrong
to suggest that money was
lavished on Malabar farm. Prior
to the acquisition of Malabar,
Louis Bromfield lived many
years in France (14 years I
believe), being forced out of that
country, like many other people,
“ahead of Hitler,”
Maybe he got some of his
assets out and maybe not, but
Malabar farm was run right
from the start as a proposition
that had to pay its way, and no
doubt the development of the
property was delayed and
hindered by the necessity of tak-
ing the short-term view and also
by Bromfield’s lack of agricul-
tural knowledge.
The Bromfield who wrote
Out of the •Earth, his latest
farming book, is a sound agricul-
turist, but it is certain that
Bromfield gained more know-
ledge and experience from his
failures and successes at Malabar
than he took to Malabar
originally. Today he must be
classed as a great agriculturist,
not only because of his insight
and knowledge, but because he
is a great writer and presents his
knowledge in a way that has
given many thousands a real
enjoyment from reading an
agricultural work, often for the
first time.
Of course I have not said, as
Mr. Schlunke seems to believe,
that there is unlimited fertility
in the sub-soil. No, the great
primary fertility-factors are sun,
air and moisture. I have stated
that all the soil and some sub-
soil can be placed and kept in a
condition to “house” these
factors, and fertility will develop
rapidly and progressively.
There is no need for Mr.
Schlunke to worry about our
farmers “losing large quantities
of soil” by using the keyline
technique. It won’t happen.
And there is no need for him to
worry about the selfish and
rapacious farmer using the
Graham plough to the dis-
advantage of his soil.
Usually only the progressive
farmers will adopt new methods
quickly. Others will naturally
follow when they can see that it
works.
Of course Mr. Schlunke is right
when he suggests rather pointedly
that I like the name “keyline.”
If the conception is right, then I
believe the word is most suitable
by being truly descriptive, and I
still like it despite Mr. Schlunke’s
hammering at it.
An eminent agriculturist
who read Mr. Schlunke’s
Bulletin article visited Nevallan
recently and suggested that the
three words “come and see”
would be a suitable answer to
Mr. Schlunke. He would be
welcome.
P. A. Yeomans.
Skin-cuts
“Penguin”: Woolbuyers are
not rushing clips containing
small pieces of skin, cut from
the sheep and baled with the
fleece. This applies specially to
high-priced superfine lamb’s-
wool, which can lose all of its
premium if a buyer finds skin
in it.
Besides preventing the use of
wool for filmy fabrics, skin-cuts
interfere with pastel-colors.
What is worse, skin-cuts can
cause serious breakdowns in
valuable machinery. Two over-
seas experts got free trips to
Australia recently, just to repair
macliinery which skin-cuts had
damaged.
Fast shearing might be spec-
tacular, but it’s better to be
slower if the extra care prevents
skin-cuts. Small nicks in the
skin don’t hurt your sheep much,
but they can do a power of
damage to your wool-cheque.
Grubby Spuds
“Stepout”: Dry - weather
brings potato-moths around the
spud patch. As soon as you
see the tiny winged destroyer
whose grubs do the damage,
spray the crop with lib. of
active D.D.T. in £t least 40gals.
water to the acre. This will
keep the moth away for three
weeks. Dusting with D.D.T.
2 per cent, at 301 b. an acre
protects the crop for a week.
Destroy waste tubers and
host-plants such as nightshade,
thornapple, and henbane. Wprk
the soil well, so that you can
mould the plants. Plant 4in. to
Sin. deep, and cultivate
thoroughly. When digging, bag
the spuds quickly. Don’t leave
them long on the ground—
especially at night.
Don’t place potato-tops over
filled bags. Cover with an empty
sack or sew at once and turn
the bag upside-down. Cart
filled bags from the paddock as
soon as possible.
Don’t plant infected seed.
Treat seed with 81b. of 2 per
cent. D.D.T. dust a ton. Tubers
should be clean and dry before,
treatment. _Do not put D.D.T.
on table-potatoes.
) ,
Concrete
“B.B.”: Concrete made with-
out sand —termed no-fines
concrete —has advantages over
normal concrete in that the
voids between the aggregate
hinder the passage of water
through the mass, 'and also
improve insulating properties (in
much the same way as does the
cavity of a brick-wall).
Savings of cement can be
made of 40 per cent, as com-
pared with dense concrete of
equal volume. Forms may be
much lighter. No-fines concrete
is particularly suitable for wall-
ing, and the walls may be built
by unskilled labor in medium-
and large-scale buildings.
For dwellings, costs of no-
fines walls compare favorably
with costs of brick walls,
especially where bricks must be
hauled long distances.
Foot Troubles
“Cornwall”:. Be suspicious of
every lame sheep in the flock.
It could mean temporary trouble
due to a knock, but it could be
the forerunner of an epidemic of
foot-rot.
If only one foot is affected
and the sheep is an adult, the
trouble could be foot-abscess, A
lot of pus is formed, and may
break out above the coronet or
between the toes.
Where the horn is overgrown
and separated from the hoof by
a blob of dirt, your sheep prob-
ably has “shelly-hoof.” “Scald”
involves reddening and moistness
around the coronet. Regard it
with great suspicion, for foot-rot
first shows as moistness of the
wall between the toes. Small
amounts of foul-smelling grey
discharge run under the wall and
sole.
Foot-rot affects lambs as well
as sheep.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: A sound method of
controlling gorse on wasteland,
as well as growing a useful
timber-stand, is to plant rapidly-
growing trees to smoother it.
Pinus radiata is one of the
varieties for this purpose. Where
gorse growth is short or sparse
small trees may be planted with-
out cutting the gorse. In thicker
and taller infestations cut a suf-
ficient opening to plant the tree
so that the gorse does not over-
top it. Make sure that the tips
of the pine-tree are not shaded
by the gorse. It will then com-
pete successfully with gorse
growth.
“C.A.A.”: To clean concrete
cowyards try a squeegee made
from a piece of three-by-two
redgufn, about 2ft. Sin. long and
grooved to take a piece of rubber
from the wall of an old motor-
tyre. Insert rubber firmly with
about a |in. lip protruding. Then
fit a handle. With the aid of this
device a large area can be quickly
cleaned with a minimum of
water.


Good Brandy
is a healthy drink
iffia/W 1
CHAM
TANDNDA
BRANDT
A Product of
The House of Seppelt
Agents: TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., 335 KENT ST.,
SYDNEY-Established 1838
* Write for free Brochure ‘'A Toast Your
Health”—with selected recipes.
OS* Xl3d
NVM
invj
iVi.id.sow
rivers that flow into the Baltic
Sea. I have seen him watch a
new teacher for five minutes,
then take over the lesson:
“Excuse me, Mr. Jones: I’ll take
the class for a while,” and hand
the class back when he had
finished his demonstration: “Mr.
Jones, while you are in the Boys’
Central School that subject must
be taught as I have shown you.”
His work in teaching parsing—
parsing is now entirely discoun-
tenanced as obsolete —and his
success with it were remarkable.
I can still recall the details we
had to supply \yhen dealing with
a compound verb made up for
the purpose of dissection (“I am
being rendered more helpless”),
the functions of each part of the
compound in building up the
meaning of the whole. And I
still wonder as I recall his
lessons on the mechanical work
of writing—lessons which pro-
ceeded hy numbers —1,2, 3,4, 5
—to ensure the correct hold on
the pen, the proper slope of the
pen, and so on, and his jargon
about parallelism of slope, uni-
formity of height, semi-elliptical
curve. Isn’t there a story about
Dr, Montessori watching infants
at play with words madfe of
raised letters on wood-blocks,
and of the child’s ecstasy and
Montessori’s pleasure as the
infant cried, “See! I can write,”
and traced out the letters? Were
educationists of those days
afraid there wouldn’t be enough
to occupy the school time to
the age of 14? And have educa-
tionists of these days quite lost
that fear?
The most lasting part of his
work, so far as I personally am
concerned, was, strange to say,
his music and his speech: I say
strange, because he was not
known outside the school as
either singer or speaker. He had
a light tenor voice, its quality
ruined by excessive daily use, and
he had an ear for music and in
his youth must have had some
musical training. He had also
a good collection of school
songs, so that rounds and part-
songs Hullah’s part-songs
were to be heard every day in one
room or another of the school.
Boys’ voices break about the ages
of 14 or 15, and the singing in the
upper-school was precarious:
but care was taken not to force
the doubtful singer, and hearti-
ness and vigor, in the form of
loud singing, were not
encouraged,
We never dreamed of having a
specialist into the school to teach
singing—he would have been an
intruder and the head
demanded that every teacher take
his own class for singing-
lessons: when at last convinced
that a teacher was really tone-
deaf and incapable of singing in
tune, he excused him very reluct-
antly and,l think,regarded him as
a slacker, though he arranged for
someone else to take his singing.
I have no reason for thinking
that his lessons in speech—in
enunciation, in correct reading
and recitation—were unsound,
We were tested annually for
ability to read aloud correctly,
and I have never doubted that
the Old Man was at least better
than those who were testing his
pupil-teachers. Of course, the
lessons of youth are pleasantly
remembered later on: they have
a glamor enhanced by the
passing years; but that is not the
only reason why “Hymn Before
Sunrise in the Vale of
Chamouni” and Othello’s speech
to the Venetian Senate still come
back to me with pleasure, and
why I can still read them aloud
without offence to an intelligent
listener. And one of the best
broadcasts to which I have
listened in recent years—pleasing
as much for its mellow musical
diction as for its literary quality
—was from the voice of one of
his old pupils,
There were eight pupil-
teachers in the school one parti-
cular year, and it happened none
of us was hopeless at tune ; and
that year, twice a week, we sang
together for 30 minutes or so,
using Stimpson’s Voice Exercises
—mostly the scale in thirds and
fourths and fifths, but also some
easy part-songs—in the little
classroom which housed us for
lessons before and after school :
this would be about five in the
afternoon. The school had no
piano: a piano was regarded as
desirable for girls but quite
unnecessary for boys, and it
would not have been easy in
those days and in a boys’ school
to obtain a pianist; but the Old
Man had a tuning-fork with
which he checked our efforts —
pleased when we sang through an
exercise without becoming flat,
vexed when the tuning-fork
revealed that we had finished a
tone lower than we should have.
Little wonder that we went flat
after a hard day’s teaching!
Voice - production, singing
down the scale and not up,
insistence on the use of the head
notes, avoidance of strain, the
beauty of soft music—if we
didn’t know of these things it was
not his fault. Mostly he just
beat time for us and listened, but
occasionally he joined in by help-
ing with one of the parts; and
his face and figure and obvious
enjoyment of the tinpot harmony
are my pleasantest pictures of
him.
Mathematically he was not
strong: after my five years with
him as pupil-teacher I had never
worked out, for myself, a deduc-
tion in plane-geometry, though
I had gone through the proposi-
tions of two books of Euclid ;
and I had never heard of
trigonometry. He made np
pretence at any knowledge of
science or of any language other
than English; when he quoted
“ It's years since I bowled a hoop!"
Latin tags and French phrases,
as he would occasionally, he was
laughed at by anybody who
knew. I remember that he once
lectured us on loyalty to the
school, and accused us of being
lacking in esprit de corps, sound-
ing the “t” in the first word of
the* phrase.
He was generally serious,
severe ; but he had one or two
jokes, which we came to know
quite well. He could never pass
the word “either” without a
little lecture —should it be pro-
nounced “eether” or “ither,”
with a long e or a long r? —
always finishing with the remark,
“Well, outher will do.”
“Outher,” it appeared, was the
Anglo-Saxon root of the word.
And he seems to have played
whist, the card-game which led
to bridge, with a barrister of
German extraction in the whist-
party ; and delighted in telling
how the lawyer reproached his
partner: “Madam, if you had
put your ace on the third trick,
we should have had game.”
Since the speaker in his excite-
ment pronounced “ace” with the
broad a sound, the protest
addressed to a lady had more
effect than he intended.
In later life, and not so very
late, he was uneven in temper:
he would begin a lesson with a
genial “Now, my little men, we
are to have a lesson,” and when
something went wrong the next
minute he would break out, “Ut,
tut, tut, you little snot!” The
last word with us had an unclean
meaning: it had not that mean-
ing to him, as I learned later ;
and the phrase, “Ut, tut, tut,” is
probably what most of his old
students remember him by.
Unfortunately it’s the
explosions of teachers in their
most vivid moments, which are
often their most bad-tempered,
that impress themselves on
students. His monthly examina-
tions of classes were fearsome
things: I have known a third of
a class remain away because it
was examination-day, and I
have seen a teacher pale and
upset at the prospect of having
his work overhauled. His public
thrashings of boys, wheri the
whole school was assembled to
see the punishment inflicted,
were reminiscent of convict days.
But on the whole he was a good
schoolteacher, not always strictly
just, for he sometimes had
favorites among the children of
influential townspeople, but
hard-working, conscientious and
certainly fearless, and as much
the product of his time as the
politician and police-magistrate.
When I meet men whom as boys
he once taught I always ask,
“Didn’t you find us very hard in
those days?” and they invari-
ably express surprise that I
should ask such a question.
At the end of my five years’
apprenticeship, I was duly
classified as a teacher —one
capable of teaching the
curriculum for primary schools
in Queensland. I am quite sure
that during those years I worked
as hard as an articled clerk in a
solicitor’s office, as a medical
student at a university, as a cadet
in a surveyor’s outfit; and dur-
ing those years I was paid £3O,
£4O, £45, £7O per annum for
each successive year.
Gladman, an English teacher,
wrote several books on School
Method, one of which we were
required to study as pupil-
teachers ; and on one page he
summarised the more important
desiderata (it’s Gladman’s word)
in the character of the teacher:
the desiderata included cleanli-
ness, neatness in dress,
methodical habit, cheerfulness,
good temper, considerateness for
the feelings of others, discretion,
self-control, Quickness of eye and
of ear, energy, quiet firmness,
organising power, strict integrity
and the earnestness which arises
from a due sense of the import-
ance of his work and his respon-
sibility to God.
My copy of Gladman, I
remember, had a bracket to the
paragraph, with a halo drawn
alongside, and the figures
(102 p.a.) in the halo. This
princely ‘sum —£102 a year—
would remain unaltered as my
salary for three years after my
classification, when, if my head-
teacher’s reports were favorable
and if the District Inspector
approved, I should be promoted
a division: then for three more
years I should receive £ll4 per
annum.
Again, in three years I might
be promoted to receive £126 per
annum. Admission to rank
higher than this necessitated
another examination which must
be taken at one sitting and not
by instalments. It is now ranked
as the equivalent of the Uni-
versity Senior. Another examina-
tion admitted the teacher to
Class I, but only after 12 years
in Class 11. It was claimed then
that the Class I examination was
equivalent to that required for
an Arts degree ; and as university
standards vary, there may have
been a university of which the
claim was justified.
But the sum of it was that, if
things went well with me, if head-
teacher and district-inspector
regularly approved of me, I
should be over 50 years of age
before I reached the top classifi-
cation as an assistant-teacher,
and my salary then would be
under £240 per annum.
And things didn’t always go
well, apart from reports from
my superiors. In 1893 there was
a depression, and the Govern-
ment decided to curtail expenses
by delaying promotions for all
civil servants, teachers included,
for at least one year! It is, of
course, fair to state that £lOO
then would buy as much as
£3OO now; but my teaching
friends, looking round, compar-
ing their earnings with the wages,
not of lawyers, doctors or
surveyors, but of clerks in com-
mercial houses, who had had
little apprenticeship and no
examination worry, saw no cause
for rejoicing in the comparison;
the clerks jeered and hooted
when they were told what we
were earning. Of course, no
teacher worth a dump teaches
for the monthly cheque: he likes
the work, he idealises it —it’s the
sheerest drudgery if he doesn’t:
and his idealism is the most
cogent argument in favor of a
decent wage for him,
I was sorry to leave the
Central, where teaching was
interesting and exciting, but
I felt I had been an
assistant long enough, and
when X was a post as
head of the small school at
Jericho, in West Queensland, I
had no hesitation in accepting,
despite the protests of my friends,
who declared that I was burying
myself.
I owed the offer of the posi-
tion to another man’s mis-
fortune, though I did not know
this at the time. In the previous
year West Queensland had suf-
fered from severe drought, and
the district around Jericho in
particular had been hard hit.
The head of the school had been
ill, his wife and children had
been affected with blight caused
by dust and flies, and he had
applied for transfer, detailing the
circumstances and threatening to
resign if a transfer were not
granted him. The department in
those days did not bargain with
its teachers, much less accept an
ultimatum from theijy; and the
return-mail brought an accept-
ance of his resignation,
Jericho is 306 miles west from
Rockhampton on the central
railway, and lies on the eastern
edge of what sheepmen call the
desert-country: it is desert only
in being very sandy, for trees
grow well enough, but the sand
persists until you reach the
downs-country about Barcaldine
and Longreach. The school
stands on the bank of the Jordan
River: you cross the Jordan to go
to Jericho, as of old —and indeed
you may still fall among thieves.
The drought which drove my
predecessor from the school
broke at the end of 1902, and I
still remember the storm in
November of that year which
marked its breaking. Horses,
sheep and cattle in the desert-
country about Jericho had been
wiped out, and most of the
squatters in the district had
simply walked off their holdings
to find work and a living
elsewhere.
Their departure made little
difference, indeed no difference,
to the school, since squatters
don’t send their children to State
schools in the bush: the school
attendance depended wholly on
the town population, made up of
carriers, teamsters, station-hands
and lengthsmen.
When I went on to the school
veranda the first morning I was
there —to look at my new pupils;
to let the pupils have a look at
the new teacher —I could see no
eyes, and little of their faces as
they looked up at me (they were
gathered in lines at the foot of
the steps), for they all wore
green flyveils.
These veils they removed when
they entered the school and took
their places in the desks; and
their uncovered eyes so moved
me that I had to go on to the
veranda for a moment to pull
myself together; they were all
so bloodshot and scalded as a
result of the drought—so
unnatural and of course to me
so unexpected: one or two would
have been bad enough, but the
cumulative effect was over-
whelming.
This was in February, the
hottest, most oppressive month
of the summer. As the heat
waned, the flies departed, the eyes
improved, and by the end of
May the flyveils were discarded.
And I began the work of my six
happiest years.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO STANLEY VICTOR NOWLAND for-
merly of 19 Catherine Street
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN NOWLAND
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3544
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Ist day of April 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor,
44 King Street, Newcastle. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERNEST CHARLES COOK formerly
of Coogee Labourer. —TAKE NOTICE that
EMILY COOK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2993 of 1954 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th March
1955 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from A. ALISTER JOHN-
SON & MCDONALD, Solicitors, of 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 0F NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
to Francis Joseph butler late of
St. Vincent’s Hostel Sydney Carpenter.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALMA ROSE
BUTLER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2594 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 25th March 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. ALISTER JOHNSON &
MCDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS. Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH FREDERICK VERE de
LUNDI late of Mount Street North Syd-
ney.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
DOREEN de LUNDI has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3041 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
and excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the Ist April 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition free of charge from
MESSRS. WOODGATE & CLEAVES, Soli-
citors, of 97 Vincent Street, Oessnock, or
their Sydney Agents, MESSRS. PIGOTT
STINSON & CO., Solicitors, 26 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANK BROWN formerly of Manly
New South Wales AND TO DOLORES
JANE MORRICE formerly of Hume High-
way Tahmoor. —TAKE NOTICE that
FLORENCE ELLEN BROWN has filed
Petition No. 4251 of 1954 praying for
Divorce from PRANK BROWN on the
grounds of his adultery with DOLORES
JANE MORRICE If you or either of you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 18th
March 1955 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from A. R. M.
GIBSON & MACPHILLAMY, Solicitors, of
43 Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
FD
F
£195
36ft. x 16£t. x 10ft.
• Raised foundations give added height.
• Of strong, simple design for erection by unskilled labor in 4 hours on prepared foundations.
• Inexpensive protection for machinery, livestock, stores, grain, fodder, vehicles, etc.
• Complete with permanently rust proof zinc coated steel ribs, corrugated aluminium sheeting, hardwood
purlins, pre-cut and drilled, and cadmium plated fixings (no ends).
• Plans, building instructions, and directions for mixing earth cement.
• Delivery free on rail within 7 days of order.
DIRECT ENQUIRIES FOR ALL TYPES OF
PREFABRICATED BUILDINGS THROUGH US
We invite enquiries from Country Agents
Building Division
IVORY & BARTON
44 Shirley Road, Wollstonecraft, Sydney.
X 83424.
They had to run
By
Will Lawson
CAPTAIN HANSEN was a
good river-skipper.
Many Scandinavians
came to the Murray and
Darling from the sea, great
seamen who had come and heard
the call of the rivers—the rivers
which wound for thousands of
miles over western lands. Hans
Hansen was one of these, a man
who knew the ways of ships and
men, and the ways of the
weather. No abo. knew the
weather-signs better.
And mostly his crews respected
the old man. Some did some-
times say the skipper was an old
fool. Mostly they were those
who did not* like work; barge-
men, for instance, who would
rather take a risk than cover
the cargo in case of rain.
Tommy Benson and Dick
Gray were like that —great
bargemen, but lazy. Barges were
towed astern on long towlines.
To get their meals from the
steamer they had to haul the
dinghy by its towline, hand-over-
hand to the boat, get their hot
tucker, then pay out the line and
drift swiftly back to their barge
to eat it. On such evening visits
the skipper would give them
orders for the night.
Usually it was the same order,
in broken English: “You cober
up, you men. The moon is no
good.”
On this particular night,
Tommy looked at the moon,
shining brightly. “Why, what’s
up with the moon? Looks good
to me.”
The moon was full, and
seemed to fill the sky with her
light. There was no wind, a
perfect night.
“That moon no good, I tell
you. *You cober up, I tell you,
lest de wool get wet.”
“Dammit, skipper, look at the
moon!”
“I look, I see de moon. De
wind he come and scoff de moon,
I tell you, den de rain come, too.
Cober up, I tell you.”
They drifted back to their
barge and had their tea. Tommy
went to bed while Dick steered
and the moonlight filled the
world.
“Silly old Hans,” Tommy said
as he stretched out. After a
time, Dick began to nod. Soon
both were sound asleep, while the
barge swam along nicely in the
wake of the steamboat.
A BOUT two-o’clock it came —
a howling wind with a storm
of rain. No moon ; the wind had
scoffed the moon. Both men
jumped to get the big tarpaulin,
which could cover the whole
barge.
“The old man was right,”
Dick chattered in the chill wind.
“We’d ought of heeded the old
man.”
“Damn him! Get this
tarpaulin spread. Look out!” as
the wind gripped the huge thing,
almost tearing it from their hands
while the drenching rain poured
down on wool and two struggling
men. They almost had it right,
and were on top of it flattening
it out when a big gust came and
away went the tarpaulin, taking
the two men, who were hanging
on to it desperately.
Away they went, right into the
river, where the tarpaulin sank.
Boat and barge went on their
way, nobody aboard aware of
what had happened. Apart from
the mate and the man at the
wheel nobody on board was
awake, much less looking out
astern.
“What do you know?”
Tommy spluttered. “What are
we going to do now?”
“Get ashore,” Dick said
briefly. “Come on.”
They swam ashore, not much
the worse for their dip, while the
lights of the steamer faded away
along the dark river.
“What’ll we do now?” Dick
repeated. “They don’t know
we’ve left her.”
“Sing out to ’em! They’ll
hear you—l don’t think! Can
you run?”
“Not much. Why?”
“If we ran all the way we
might meet her at Big Bend.
That’s four miles up the river.
Will you give it a go? She goes
a long way round,”
Dick knew that Tommy could
run. He had seen him in sports,
but not in four-mile runs.
“I’ll try,” Dick said, shivering.
“It’ll warm us, anyway.”
Tommy led the way, being an
older hand in the game; and
they puffed along for about a
mile. Then Dick sat down.
“Damn the boat,” he said,
“and old Hans. We’ll wait for
another boat.”
“And lose our pay and all our
dry clobber? Not me. Come
on. Only three miles more, but
we’ll have to get a move on.”
So they ran and puffed, till
Dick sat down, quite done. Then
the miracle happened. Far down
the river Dick saw lights flashing
among the river trees. He
shouted,
“Look! Old "Billy Hay with
his coach. We’re saved if he’ll
give us a lift.”
TN the days of the paddle-boats,
the coach-roads followed the
river, more-or-less. In high
rivers, the steamers got most of
the traffic; in low rivers, when
boats suffered many delays, the
coaches got the trade. And here
was the coach, just what the two
men wanted.
“Don’t need to run no more,’
Dick said contentedly.
“That’s if Billy’ll give us a
lift. He might think we’re hold-
up men waiting here in the dark
and rain. Ugh!” He shivered.
And that is just what the
driver did think. He whipped
up the team shouting “Who’n
hell are you? Get out of my
way.”
Away went the coach, Dick
and Tommy chasing it. At a
muddy creek the coach had to
slow down, and the two desperate
men put on a spurt and got
alongside.
“Have a heart, Bill,” Tommy
gasped. “We’re off the Free-
trader. Got carried overboard
from the barge, spreading the
tarpaulin. Damn’ thing blew
away and us in it.”
Billy stopped his coach.
“Let’s have a look at ye,” the
driver said. When he saw the two
exhausted men, he laughed
loudly.
“You mean to say you never
covered up for the rain? Didn’t
old Hans tell you to?”
“Too right, he did.”
“Alt right. Get up. I’ll drop
you at Big Bend. Wisht I could
wait and see old Hans’s face
and hear what he sez to you.
Must still believe you’re in the
barge, eh?”
“Something like that.”
“What’ll he say when he sees
you waiting four miles ahead?”
Billy couldn’t get over it. He
chortled all the way to the Bend.
But he remembered to give them
a couple of nips from a bottle of
rum he carried. There were no
other passengers. It was a high
river, and passengers preferred
the more comfortable trip by
boat if they were not in a hurry.
\X7HEN they saw the coach-
* * lights vanish in the trees,
and the effects of the rum wore
off, the two marooned seamen
did not feel so happy. They
still had to get on board the
Freetrader. Where was she?
Must be having a slow trip,
surely. Time hangs heavy when
a man is waiting.
At last she swung round a
bend far down the river.
“Hooray! ” Dick shouted.
“Now we’re set.”
“Like a pint of sour milk,”
Tommy sneered. “Wait and
see.”
It must be admitted that the
situation had difficult angles in
it. First, what would a skipper
think, on being hailed by two
drenched and swagless men
standing on a dark river-bank?
Old Hans take some con-
vincing, Tommy knew, that they
were not two swaggies, cadging
a lift. And he was not very
generous that way. Even in the
oil-lit bemirrored headlights
they would not be easily recog-
nisable as two of his crew.
At last the steamer drew level,
and Tommy yelled to the skipper,
who had relieved the mate.
“Take us on board, skipper.
I’m Tommy and this is Dick, off
the barge—got blown overboard,
skipper.”
Hans was a slow-witted man ;
a good skipper, but not quick on
the uptake, so he did not answer.
Tommy and Dick had to run
once more.
Then Hans said, “If you’re
my men why did you go
ashore?”
“We didn’t go ; we was took.”
“Who took you?”
“The wind did, I tell you.
Don’t you know me?”
“I can only see a dirty man.
Wait, I’ll find out if you are still
in the barge.”
He called a deckhand,
“Sam, haul in the dinghy, and
go down and see if Tommy and
Dick are in the barge.”
While this was done, the two
on the bank still ran, to keep
pace with their boat. Desper-
ately they ran, for the big, big
thought with them was to get
back in their barge.
I
TTHE deckhand got the dinghy
alongside, drifted down to
the barge and yelled to the
skipper.
“There’s nobody here, skip.”
“Look in the cabin.”
Another long pause, while the
men ran on. Then the deckhand
yelled again, “Nobody here,
skip. Must be them.”
Then they heard the glad sound
of the engine-bell, and the order
as the boat swung alongside the
river-bank. ; “Stop her! ”
A plank was thrown out to
the bank and Tommy and Dick
staggered on board, breathless
and empty and very wet and
cold.
“Come up,” Hans ordered
from the bridge.
They went up, shamefaced and
silent.
“So,” the skipper said while
he regarded them with a quizzical
eye. “So I tell you ‘Cober up!’
But you do not cober up. You
know better, eh?”
“No, not that, skipper, but
the moon was that bright and
we was tired.”
“All right. Go and change.
Go to the galley; get food and
hot coffee. And when I say
‘cober up,’ you cober up! Don't
laugh at de silly old skipper ...”
“No, sir, we never laughed,”
Tommy protested.
But when they had gone it was
the skipper who laughed and
laughed.


Challenger when, going into Cockbum
Sound off the Swan, the master “Placea
a buoy on a rock and then steered foi
the buoy and ran the ship immediately
on it” ; nor to relate Captain Irwin’s hap-
less romance; nor the story of Mrs.
Molloy at Augusta, her sorrow at the
death of her child and her rediscovery ot
happiness in collecting plants for Captain
Mangles ; nor the dramatic two or three
pages on William Buckley, the Wild
White Man, turning up dressed in kanga-
roo-skins and “speechless with agitation”
out of the bush at Indented Head; nor
(except that Frank Henty helped Batman
put up his tent) the full story of the foun-
dation of Melbourne ; nor Samuel Bryan’s
furious quarrels with the Launceston
magistrate Captain Lyttleton over a con-
vict servant accused of sheep-stealing, and
Bryan’s subsequent manoeuvres against
Governor Arthur; nor Major Mitchell’s
exploration of the Darling and the
Murray, when he rejoiced in his dis-
coveries of wildflowers and of “the
sublime solitude of those verdant plains,
as yet untouched by flocks or herds.”
There is, however, usually some direct
if slender connection with the family
(Major Mitchell, to his own great surprise,
dropped-in on the Hentys at Portland
Bay) to establish the relevance of these
stories, and always a justification in the
scheme of the “colonial tapestry,” as
illuminating background ; and one makes
the point only because a similar method
could be employed in all Australian his-
torical biographies, so that we could be
told the whole story of the continent over
and Over again, to the point of tedium.
Some general historical knowledge on
the part of the reader should be assumed.
But Mrs. Bassett’s interludes of this kind
are all splendid reading in themselves, and
indeed the signal achievement of her book
is to weave so many strands into so co-
herent and delightful a pattern.
Australian Poetry, 1954
With poetry-anthologies you can either
print the experiments-that-might-lead-to-
something-new, in which case you will be
charged with turning the average reader
off pobtry; or the successes, when your
crime will be not encouraging new talent.
When the Australian Poetry series was
begun in 1941, as a conspiracy between
Beatrice Davis of Angus and Robertson
and Douglas Stewart to make a home
for poets struggling out of the conven-
tions into which Australian verse had
fallen, it was brave and virtuous to print
experimental writing and to say, here is
a place where you needn’t worry about
what the public wants.
But to pull away on principle from
the public is gradually to cultivate the
belief that poetry is a foreign language ;
and for this reason, in starting work upon
Australian Poetry, 1954, I made four
pieces my necessity: Peter Bladen’s
“Coronation Day at Melrose,” in which
an Australian village comes to life in the
celebrations with which any Australian
born in a good suburb will be familiar ;
W. E. Harney’s “West of Alice,” the song
of a grader ploughing down and turning
up most of the flora and fauna of the
west, a piece I had remembered from
some years before; lan Healy’s “Love
Song,” which uses pidgin as the little-
language of love, and remembers the
cadences of one of the greatest of the
Elizabethans; and J. Gunn’s “Where
from Here,” so close to folksong I
should find it hard to tell the differ-
ence :
I’rp on the track a-drovin’
With the horse-hells ringin’ clear,
And I ask meself a-rovin’,
Where do I go from ’ere?
though the stanza that got me in was;
Makin’ love an’ kissin’,
She s a-callin’ me ’’My dear,”
But to me there’s somethin’ missin’—
Where do 1 go from ’ere?
It is interesting to try to recall the
exact point where you throw away dis-
cretion over a new poem. I think it
was Mr. Harney’s picture of a grader
hung with flowers:
We pass where Sturt-peas clothe the earth
with a scarlet sweep of flowers,
And burst through green acacia-trees that
send down golden showers;
The parakeelia s purple blooms are crushed
in the dry, red sand. . .
and with Mr. Healy it was:
Cry in the long grass,
Night-bird, hoo-hoo.
Same fella lonely, so?
Makim more sadness. . . *
But the more I think of Mr. Bladen’s
“Coronation Day” as a whole, the more
satisfied I am at discerning through its
casual and sometimes rough way with
words the style of modern American
painters of the “little people,” the small
villages and towns which are the back-
bone of any country; and, indeed, the
tradition that goes back farther than
“Peblis to the Play” by James V of Scot-
land :
The procession broke in half because a
truck had lost its driver,
But they laughed, while they were waiting,
at the antics of Godiva;
There were floats with baby-napkins,
minstrels, little maids-in-waiting,
And a barrowload of clowns and pretty
prams, perambulating
Through the gateway to the oval, with a
picnic feast to mop off—
And a truck was stuck beneath the gate
until they took its top off. i .
With these pieces to act as a tuning-
fork, I set out to lower the pitch of the
year’s selections, from brave efforts that
strained the voice, down to what every
poet could do easily; and then I was
free to remember that if this year’s
anthology had any reason for existing
it was to mark the emergence of David
Campbell as a narrative-poet. But which
of his two astonishing performances
should go in? “Mullion Hill” was the
more poetic, but “Speewah Races” was
the finer poem. He solved my problem
unbeknownst by sending “The Miracle
of Mullion Hill” for inclusion;
So saying, Pat returned to prayer;-
And on the crisp and holy air
The bells filed out like sheep along
A mountain pad, ding-dong, ding-dong.
Ding-dong, ding-dong! In peals and volleys
They skipped like rams across the yalleys,
To saunter home in single file
Leading the Ijaithful up the aisle. , .
It would need the wild and sardonic
“Speewah Races” to complete the argu-
ment why Campbell may in his own way
take Paterson’s place here: 1 regret
having had to choose.
Before leaving for foreign parts, Mr.
Stewart, who probably sees more Aus-
tralian poetry hot from the typewriter
than anyone else, and has bought and
printed most of the pieces in this
anthology, mentioned that “of course”
the Mackenzie poem to use would be
“Joe Green”; and observing that here
Mr. Mackenzie was using to the full his
novelist’s gift‘of exact intonation,
Gi’ me the good old days . . . Joe Green,
Joe Green
how are you doing tonight? Is it cold
work dying?
Not ! alf as cold as some of the frosts Ive
out Sackville way. . . The voice holds fast
defying . . -
sleep and silence, the whisper and the in-
fold screen
and the futile difficult sounds of his old
girl’s crying,
I saw what I must do, but just to have
a Mackenzie piece I chose myself J took
his “English Woodbine” from the Satur-
day “S. M. Herald” where it had
been wasting its sweetness upon that
desert air, so solid that you feel you
could touch it, and a masterpiece of deli-
cate rhyming off the beat. Because of
Mr. Stewart I also passed over two fine
pieces by James McAuley; Mr. Stewart
had mentioned McAuley’s 8-line lyric on
the pallid-cuckoo’s song and said he
wished he had written it himself —so I
decided to open with it; it is an almost
perfect lyric—and to a future anthologist
I leave McAuley’s “New Guinea” poem
and his rhapsodic invocation to the Holy
Ghost in the form of a bird-of-paradise.
Left pretty well to my own devices, I
decided 1 must have Roland Robinson’s
apparition of a rock-wallaby out of the
rock in a desert night although it had
been in Jindyworobak; and that Robert
D. Fitz Gerald’s time-ranging mind was
best seen in his wish to have known
Caesar, Cook and Hargrave:
I regret I shall not be around
To stand on Mars;
and a piece came in from Geoffrey
Dutton, from the Belgian Congo, that
dived straight into the work-in-pro-
gress :
O lovely, long-legged lazy blonde
Wandering down the sand to the sea. . .
and I had settled on a poem from David
Rowbotham which said how much
moths fluttering round a candle-flame
were like men, when out of the blue
came his version of the old legend of the
squatter who got a licence to shoot blacks
who had murdered his family, with the
line
His broad and glaring mare snorted at the
ford,
which has much of the ominous
mystery of
Childe Roland to the dark Tower came.
Poets are like volcanoes; you never
know when they are going to erupt.
Then I had to handle the women ; and
I guess I am still old-fashioned enough
(“green,” as Slessor used to say of the
unsophisticated) to like my women-poeis
womanly; Judith Wright and Nancy
Keesing, dealing with metaphysical
matters or dissecting society, have my
puzzled admiration; but Miss Keesing
commenting upon how it is to wait in a
big city.
Linked thinly to absence by
A silent telephone
(I would give you her number only she’s
recently become engaged), and Miss
Wright’s story of her great-great-grand-
mother out painting in Switzerland who,
seeing her son being swept downstream
towards an 80-foot waterfall, realised she
could do nothing about it:
Nothing, it was evident, could be done ;
and with the artist’s isolating eye
my great-great-grandmother hastily sketched
the scene.
The sketch remains to prove the story by—
have my (I fear, unwanted) affection. In
this strain, Elizabeth Riddell’s caustic and
beautiful reverie upon “The Man at
Night,” and Nan McDonald’s demonstra-
tion of women’s talent for turning the
weather into a long and charming dis-
quisition, are well in keeping; so,
especially, is a totally unexpected kiss 1
got from Mary Gilmore, with a compli-
cated structure of rhyme I don’t think I
have ever seen before:
But in the wntten word 1
Nested
Like some warm-breasted bird.
1 had 80 much ex P ected one of her
charming or malicious re-paintings of old
pictures from Rosemary Dobson that at
first j was disappointed by even the lovely
cadences of the whitest of white poems
she sent “ T he Birth”:-
A wreath of flowers, as cold as snow,
Breaks out in bloom upon the night:
That tree j s rooted in the dark,
It draws from dew its breath of life,
It feeds on frost, it hangs in air
dke a glittering branch of stars
Receives, gives forth, its breathing light. . .
still, there is a good deal of an old paint-
j n g abou t Dorothy Auchterlonie’s study
G f the Temptation, and for her 1 waive
the ru i es a gainst female academism:
He watched them as they walked towards
the tree,
roagb d b d j^ reen sarden wbere tbe leaves
Be saw his scarlet fruit hang tremulously:
He whispered, “Eat it if you will.”
„ . .. „ „ . ...
Knowing, as yet they had no will but his. . .
_ , . . , , . t
But the poetess tor thj anthologist
» h ° likes his women at a disadvantage
» Mona Brand slapping down memories
of a billycan ride home from school as a
woman rattles off a letter, with too many
words and not always the ri § ht ones > and
yet giving you the whole thing;
The sturdy posts shot up the hill,
The ugly shops, once stiff and still,
First moved, then blurred to a yellow wall,
Xhen faded into none at a 11....
.
° r ’ a S air T
Dancing pepper-and-salt grains showed
° n shrieking yellow road,
J h e road that roared beneath our wheel
With shout of stone and shriek of steel,
The wind was sharp against our skin>
Against your back my knees dug in.
“Get your ugly feet away!”
Was all I ever heard you say
% way of brotherly caress
Or any kind of gentleness. . .
Or maybe the subject reminds me of the
girl who said to me, “Ronald, if I’m
| oin 8 downhill I’m going in a Rolls-
Royce, not a billycart —I forget what
brought it up. Likewise Ray Mathew’s
love-song “Picnic,” reminds me ot
Chnstmas-dmner on a deserted bay of
Sydney harbor, with just the one party
°f picnickers dancing square-dances to
an accordion in the picnic-grounds on
the other side of the bay:
i dr i n k a toast to this dean, white rain
That lightens in the heart like wine,
Give me your hand to hold, my love,
For I will,-never come again
Wlth you ’ Wlth love ’ to such a time ‘
I had a bad conscience about A. D.
Ho P e I he had run lj nes from different
compositions in a previous anthology
satirically together in a criticism, upon
which I remarked in print that he had
written the same poem all his life him-
self, which is true enough if you con-
sider that all his pieces are like larger-
than-life statues ; but as I had a con-
siderable regard for them, I began to
moan to Miss Davis about my foolish-
. . , , . . i„ r
ness » and fl uic kly took her up on h
offer to send the Perfesser a special note,
“Tell him,” I said, “I’ll print anything he
sends ” “Nonsense,” Miss Davis said,
full o£ - Hc dbe disgusted ; you’d
no(h aU , ha , „ whatever
® • • * • i♦♦ „
Davls P"‘ ■“i he , lle e r P roduced
The r Return ot Persephone, mor “
chaste in style and diction than his Byron
or Freud studies ; bland and serene
academism at its best, and with all his
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 308
Across
I—Humbug1—Humbug somewhat of the nature
of 9-across and 10-across. (7-6)
8 — I translated into Latin. (3)
9 Some gadget dancer. (6)
10 —Where you might sometimes be
expected to see a full house with
hearth equipment. (5)
12 — 760 in the last decade. (8, 7)
13 — Family quarrel with a conserva-
tive holding land according to
William the Conqueror’s system.
(9)
16 —Where is the Taj Mahal? (4)
19 — An N.S.W. disturbance caused by
the beards of grain. (4)
20 — A reminder about the cost of
your silver bird. (9)
26 Go mad before I rue one who
believes in bureaucracy. (15)
27 Frank has a bowling spell before
tea. (5)
28— A dog in the French lake between
Finland and Russia. (6)
29 The law of Alexander? (3)
31 —A drunken gondolier perhaps is
found among the shades. (8, 5)
Down
I—The French 1 start a month later
are empty and devoid of interest.
(6)
2 Huge two-wheeled carriage before
one. (9)
3 Always a little boy is turned
inside out. (7)
4 A single run around half the field
available for purchase. (2, 5)
5 Cancelled artist makes a raised
platform in the open air. (6)
6 You. (2)
7 European’s blue jacket is an aid
to navigation. (4-4)
11 —How letters for the blind are
understood to be hat material.
(4)
14— As ownership is indicated for
this beast. (3)
15 — That distant centre of Bayonne.
(3)
17 — A war-time landing place for a
girl to cheek nothing but 51. (9)
18— A woman inexperienced in the
ways of men could probably do
with something like this baboon.
(8)
21 — Disorderly pet from Pontefract
makes an Englishman pine. (7)
22 — Has snow dropped in different
places? (4)
23 — A little bleater introduces a false
god to a medical graduate. (3-4)
24 Taken by car if Australia’s
General McKay had been a
doctor. (6)
25 —Abandon in a London street
stretch of beach. (6)
30 —Kiss against half the clue’s
number. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 307


Marcia
Davenport
Mg Brother's Keeper
A great new novel by the author of
The Valley of Decision.
A superbly written story that leads
one, almost hypnotically, to the last
of its 512 pages.
This, her most ambitious book, tells
of two brothers who lived and died
alone in a vast house which had
ecome their tomb.
‘.uc-'vnely readable.”
—V. S. PRITCHETT
BOOK SOCIETY
COMMENDATION
fust ojut. 18 j 9
COLLINS
ICy By John Hetherington
ig-awaited, full, frank story of
n who was one of Australia’s
t soldiers. The author makes no
; to distort the facts—Tie gives
dng portrait of a soldier of un-
i gifts and a man of infinite
dty, and brings to life Blarney’s
jns in the Middle East and New
in which hundreds of thousands
ralians participated. Illustrated
hotographs of great historical
19/6 (post 7d.)
With the Australians in Korea
Edited by Norman Bartlett
This is the full story of Australia’s part
in the Korean War told mostly by the
men who served either as combatants
or war correspondents. It crystallises
the of a few thousand volun-
teers, but is, above all, the personal
front-line story cf the men of all
nations who fought and suffered in a
three years’ struggle which was a “little
war” in name only Fully illustrated.
35/- (post 1/1)
ohone or call in for these and all the hooks yon
Christmas catalogue
ANGUS & ROBERTS
CastlereagK St., Sydney : : 66-68
he sure to k *or our
LTD.
th St., jy
Latest Australian Books
Obtainable From All Recognised Booksellers
NORTHERN AUSTRALIA: Task for a Nation; Papers delivered by acknowledged experts to the
1954 Summer School of the Australian Institute of Political Science. 8J x sg. 272 pages.
15 illustrations. 14 maps. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 19/0.
COME A’WALTZING MATILDA, by BILL BEATTY. Australian folk stories and forgotten
tales. 8f x 54. 128 pages. 10 illus. Cloth binding. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 13/6.
THE SOVEREIGN PEOPLE, by E. T. BROWN. An examination of political democracy in
Australia. 8i x 54. 285 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 25/-.
THE WORLD’S FLESH, by VINCENT BUCKLEY. Poems published by arrangement with
the Commonwealth Literary Fund. 84. x 54. 64 pages. Paper boards. F. W. Cheshire
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 12/6.
THE KELLY HUNTERS, by FRANK CLONE. The Life and Times of Ned Kelly. 94 x 61.
384 pages. 25 line drawings. 2 maps. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney, -o/-.
POLICIES AND PROGRESS: Essays in Australian politics, edited by ALAN DAVIES and
GEOFFREY SERLE. Contributions by Geoffrey Sawer, H. W. Arndt, Kingsley Laser, and
others. 84 x 54. 191 pages. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 18/6
THE AUSTRALIAN ABORIGINES, by A. P. ELKIN. How to understand them B| x 5$
368 pages. Coloured frontispiece, 24 black and white illus. 1 map. Cloth binding. Angus fir
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 30/-.
THE CARELESS PEOPLE, by HELEN FOWLER and BERNARD HARRIS. A Novel.
8 x SJ. 256 pages. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
HOW TO COOK WITH WINE, by HARRIET GOODWIN. Wine cooking for the Australian
housewife. 8} x 54. 140 pages. 20 illus. Cloth binding. Ure Smith Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
EARLY AUSTRALIAN ARCHITECTS AND THEIR WORK, by MORTON HERMAN.
The story of early Australian architecture. 10 x 74- 126 line drawings; 16 pages in full
colour. 4 pages in 2 colours, 8 pages in black and white. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. £4/4/-.
BLAMEY by JOHN BETHERINGTON. The biography of Field-Marshal Sir Thomas Blarney.
84 x 54. 268 pages. 17 illus. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd. Melbourne. 19/6.
SOWERS OF THE WIND, by T. A. G. HUNGERFORD. A novel. 8 x 5i- 281 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
THE NOR’-WESTERS by lON L. IDRIESS. Random scraps from the great scrapbook of
life. 8J x sf. 256 pages. 16 illus. 1 map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/-.
AUSTRALIA’S POWER RESOURCES, by Professor H. MESSEL, Dr. S. ANDREWS, Dr.
H. G. RAGGATT, R. A. BUNT, and others. The proceedings of the Winter Forum of the
Australian Institute of Political Science. 84 x 54. 196 pages. Graphs and charts. Cloth
binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 18/6.
BENEATH THE SOUTHERN CROSS, by HELEN PALMER. A children’s story of the
Eureka Stockade. 74 x 5. 112 pages. Illustrated by Evelyn Waters. Cloth binding.
F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 8/6.
SIX AND SILVER, by JOAN PHIPSON. Juvenile. 8| x sf. 160 pages. 10 line drawings
and decorations by Margaret Border. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson, Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
WHO WANDERS ALONE, by PETER PINNEY. Travel. 8f x s|. 264 pages 15 illus.
and 10 line drawings. End-paper map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 21/-.
ROMANCE OF THE GREAT BARRIER REEF, by FRANK REID. Adventure. 94 x 64.
205 pages. 26 line drawings. 1 map. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 22/6.
ADAM IN PLUMES, by COLIN SIMPSON. Inside the Wahgi Valley in New Guinea.
91 x 64. 288 pages. 12 pages of full colour, 16 pages black and white photographs and
decorations. 3 maps. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 25/-.
ANIMAL TALK AND OTHER STORIES, by NEVILLE SMITH. Stories for younger
children. 84 x 54- 104 pages. Illustrated in colour by Alison Forbes. Cloth binding.
F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 12/6.
«tmon RLACK IN CHINA, by IVAN SOUTHALL. Juvenile, 74 x 5. 224 pages. 7 line
" drawings. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd. Sydney. 9/6.
t rvNTfi TOHN SILVER, by KYLIE TENNANT. The story of the film. 8J x 54. 208 pages.
g j llus in co iour, 65 in black and white. Cloth binding. Associated General Publications
Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
THE FURY, by E. V. TIMMS. A Novel. 8f x s|. 256 pages. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
rriTTr a t?t nv TAN BOW. by CLIVE TURNBULL. With an introduction by Ernest Burbndge.
T j 0 j yj. 32 pages. 3 colour plates, 30 half tones. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne. 25/-.
COMMUNISM AND DEMOCRACY IN AUSTRALIA, by LEICESTER WEBB. A survey
of the 1951 referendum; an analysis of Australian democracy in action. 84 x 54. 224
pages Ifinstrated wXcartoons. Cloth binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 25/-.
■vn ROAIK no BY hv MYRTLE ROSE WHITE. Story of life on an outback station.
8 x 64. 216 pages. 29 line drawings by Elizabeth Durack. Cloth binding. Angus &
Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
wit in the conclusion; where she is
about to leave the underworld:
And still she did not speak, but turned again
Looking for answer, for anger, for com-
mand ;
The eyes of Dis were shut upon their pain;
Calm as his marble brow, the marble hand
Slept on his knee. Insuperable disdain,
9
Foreknowing all bounds of passion, of
power, of art,
Mastered but could not mask his deep
despair.
Even as she turned with Hermes to depart,
Looking her last on her grim ravisher
For the first time she loved him from her
heart.
In transcribing some of the poems
from MSS. I have made part of R. D.
Murphy’s “Tower View, Maitland,” mean-
ingless, and blighted John Blight’s “The
Anchor.” Swing in the first line of
“Tower View’s” second stanza should
read wing; between immediate and ring
in the third line of this stanza there should
be a semi-colon. Line 11 of “The Anchor”
should read On the dirty bottom with
bottles and tins. The memory of these
foolish mistakes disheartens me, when
so much of the book reminds me of the
one or two parties I have given when
everyone was charming and himself and
got drunk gracefully. . .
1 am reminded by Peter Hopegood’s
dialect music-hall song,
’E be zittin’ on ’is zettle i’ the shaade
As ’e zat when Mr. Gladstone were a JWaade
An’ ’is mem’ry grows as grin
When ’e’s ’ad ’is drop o’ gin
As one o’ them there flow’rs wot never
vaade,
that Sydney’s first news of him, years
ago, was not as the profound student of
abstruse religious symbology, but as the
suicide who pinned to his pants a sprig
of mistletoe; I remark that E. O.
Schlunke’s “Benelong Returns to
Heaven” puts the problem of what to do
when a novelist who is not a poet writes
a humorous masterpiece ; I observe Mr.
Mudie making a long, entertaining meta-
phor of his nightmare of encroaching
deserts, and Mr. Porter in brilliant brittle
form on the suicide of a farmer ; and
the voices drift up of T. Inglis Moore
discoursing on snow in Canberra, and
Lex Banning under the impression that
he is full of claret at The Cross, and
W. Hart-Smith drawing an ironic con-
clusion from an old New Zealand paint-
ing, and Brian Vrepont describing some
nuns he saw playing basketball, and
Harley Matthews justifying the swamp
because of the still beauty of the scene
he creates, and Vivian Smith, the young
Tasmanian who was up to see us a few
weeks back, posing as an old man, and
Douglas Stewart indulging the quiet
satirical humor more usual in his con-
versation than his writings. . ,
And then my thoughts stray from the
company, and I begin to trace the steps
by which I changed from a noble deter-
mination not to put myself in my own
anthology, and ended by giving myself
three pages; but to do justice to this
process would require the subtlety of
Strachey dissecting the tortuous mind of
Cardinal Manning. A good party, but a
disgraceful host; and now I complete the
shame by criticising my own book.
But, I say to myself, “It’s in a worthy
cause. After all, it’s the best anthology
ever published in Australia, except
Broomfield’s, that first brought out
Paterson, Lawson and ‘The Golden
Shanty.’ ” — Ronald McCuaig.
A Valley in New Guinea
Colin Simpson’s Adam with Arrows
was a bestseller in Australia, and its
successor, Adam in Plumes (Angus and
Robertson), should be equally popular.
Essentially a journalist’s book, based
on diaries and interviews, it is the story
of the discovery and subsequent develop-
ment of the Wahgi valley in the central
highlands of New Guinea, a densely
populated district shut in by mountain
walls, the existence of which was
unknown, or no more than a rumor and a
conjecture, until Mick and Dan Leahy
(then young prospectors looking for gold)
and Charles Marshall (a surveyor) walked
up from Bena Bena in 1933, met some
outlying tribes of the new natives and,
7000 ft. high in the forests dripping with
rain, saw a corridor through the moun-
tains and the unknown valley extending
beyond it “indefinitely, until its limits
were lost in the haze of distance.”
That was a preliminary reconnaissance.
The Leahys were back again a few
months later with another surveyor, Ken
Spinks, and James Taylor, a patrol-officer
of the Administration who had been
hankering to explore the same bit of
country. The expedition first surveyed
the country by plane, then walked the
mountain track ; and, when they reached
the valley, the natives, connecting them
with the plane, recognised them as the
returned spirits of deceased relatives and,
according to Taylor’s diary, “thought
we had come out of the sky, dismounting
that morning from the sun as it came
over the eastern horizon.” Three days
later when an airstrip had been cleared
the plane landed:
An old native standing next to Mick
Leahy cried “Oh-h-h-h”! It was like a
long-drawn groan that fear drew agonis-
ingly from the depths of his being. Then
(he engine cut, and the Fox Moth came
gliding down over their heads. The natives
fell to the ground as one man Then the
pilot, lan Grabowski, one of the tallest men
in New Guinea, climbed out of the cock-
pit... .wearing a white flying-suit and white
helmet, with large square-cut green goggles
The kanakas simply flattened into the
ground and moaned.
Later, alas, the natives began some-
what to doubt the divinity of the new-
comers and, off and on, became what
Taylor described, in a magnificent under-
statement, as “boisterous”—“Shortly
after we left here the people became
boisterous and on several occasions they
rushed at the rear of the line with stone
axes raised.” They had decided, in fact,
that the white men were “rejects from
Paradise.”
Father Morschheuser, one of the
pioneer missionaries, was massacred in
1934, and a few weeks later there was the
tragic and extraordinary story of Brother
Eugene; who, in the Chimbu valley
adjoining the Wahgi, was ambushed and
left for dead, then rescued by friendly
natives to lie suffering in a native hut
from his six arrow-wounds for eight days
until found by a Government patrol. He
died a week later in Salamaua hospital.
But in spite of such incidents, insepar-
able from the New Guinea story any-
where, the Wahgi valley must have been
a beautiful place when it was first dis-
covered, as indeed it still is. It was
remarkable for its “sing-sing gardens,”
laid out like ornamental parks in every
village ; as described in Michael Leahy’s
diary:
Inside the rectangle was a smooth and
well-kept lawn, with a straight row of what
looked like enormous pot-plants down the
middle of it. These pot-plants were in fact
ornamental shrubs, each growing out of a
raised mound of'earth held in place by
wooden slabs four feet high. A shady path,
evidently provided to prevent visitors from
trampling the park grass unnecessarily,
followed the line of trees on one side, a
bed of flowers and shrubs separating it from
the lawn. At the other side was a massed
planting of shrubs and foliage plants of
various colors, with bright green and per-
fectly symmetrical clumps of bamboo,
evenly spaced, striking the dominant note.
Gradually penetrated and pacified by
the Administration, the area was little
touched by the war—-no Japanese ground
forces got into the valley—and today it
is the site of the Hallstrom Trust, where
the sheep introduced by the Sydney
philanthropist Sir Edward Hallstrom graze
peacefully on the young kunai-grass,
where Colin Simpson kept company with
William Dobell and Frank Clune, and
where Frederick Shaw Mayer collects
birds-of-paradise, bower-birds and harpy-
eagles with fascinating information about
them:
This New Guinea eagle is a relative of
the Great Harpy of South America and the
monkey-eating eagle of the Philippines. It
lives on mammals. Since all of these except
the tree-climbing kangaroo are nocturnal,
Shaw Mayer was puzzled as to how the
eagle could get, say, a possum that only
ventured out at night. He found that the
eagle recognises a possum-hole in a tree
by the scratches on the bark and the smell.
The eagle comes to the hole in the daytime
and taps against it with a wing. The
possum is an extraordinarily inquisitive
animal and, half-asleep, he crawls up to the
entrance to see what the tapping is—and
in a flash the Harpy’s talons clutch his
forepaw and haul him out The only one
in captivity is in Sydney’s zoo, Taronga
Park.
Within the framework of this story of
discovery and development—and a very
creditable story it is, too, judging by an
American observer’s tribute in 1945, and
by what Mr. Simpson has himself sub-
sequently noted: “Better farming, better
roads, better health; the happiness of
the folks” was the American’s summary
—the author has painted the New Guinea
background with a lavish hand. About
the most entertaining of the anecdotes
concerns a chief who exacted tribute of
many pigs from his neighboring tribes on
the grounds that he had three rapacious
and merciless white men staying with
him, who were making the demands . . ,
there proved to be no white men when
the story was investigated, though he did
have one of his own tribesmen dressed-
up in an old jersey and a felt hat.
But that is only one of a hundred good
stories: how the natives in the early
days crowded round the radio, not to
listen to the music but to the static, which
they found awe-inspiring; how, when
far from a river and when no rain is
falling, you can wring water from the
moss to boil in the billy; how the
Leahy s’ superb white bulldog, which
they used to let loose at hostile tribesmen
to put the finishing-touch to a skirmish,
refused to take his usual place at the head
of the march when Danny Leahy was
down with fever, but walked by the sick
man’s stretcher; how the U.S. Army,
when Australian supplies were short,
flew-in a million tablets of sulpha-
guanadine to combat an epidemic of
dysentery among the natives during the
war; how District Commissioner Downs
got over the awkward problem of arrest-
ing the trouble-maker Kamindo without
making a martyr of him, handcuffing him
by a shrewd trick at a public meeting of
the tribe . . . stories of hardship, stories
of courage, stories of gold and of fight-
ing ; native beliefs, ceremonies, domestic
and sexual customs ; lore of the bower-
birds and birds-of-paradise . . .
The book, like Adam with Arrows, is
handsomely illustrated with colored
photographs.
Matilda Waltzes On: Mary Kent
Hughes (Heinemann). Travel book
(with some excellent photographs), by
that Australian woman doctor —specialist
in radiology—who wrote of her war-time
experiences in Matilda Waltzes With the
Tommies. The first couple of chapters
are occupied with angry accounts of her
vain attempts to get specialised X-ray
work in or out of the Australian Army,
when she returned to this country during
the war. Rid of this accumulated ire,
she describes an air-joumey from Aus-
tralia across Europe and through
Scandinavia to London, for an Inter-
national Congress of Radiology. It is a
hearty, breathless, superficial, carelessly
written book touching of necessity only
briefly on each country visited.


H«
nit
tin
HD [ID cm DD
mi HD mm
no
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL,
M.R.A.C.P.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA;
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins, 8.A.,
LL.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.A.S.A.
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O'Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
13 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers, Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager; D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA;
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager; L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Manager: W. Dwyer
Select
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
REQUIREMENTS
Policies Issued to Suit
Every Individual Need
POLICIES CONTAIN
SPECIAL ACCIDENT
BENEFITS
/
DF
