

THE HOUSE
fe
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARa
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
SHARKS: WHAT ARE THE ODDS?
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3864
Wednesday, March 3, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
(By courtesy of the Irish Tourist Association.)
THE ANCIENT STONES OF JOHNSTOWN HEARD MANY A BATTLECRY!
FROM earliest times the fertile south-east corner of Eire was subject to out-
side influences, first by the marauding Vikings and then by the Anglo-
Norman adventurers. This region, known as Leinster, is made up of the
counties of Meath, Westmeath, Louth, Kildare, Longford, Dublin, Offaly,
Wicklow, Leix, Kilkenny, Carlow and Wexford. Wexford retains in its title
evidence of its Danish origin and it was the first part of Ireland to be
colonised from Great Britain.
In 1169, during the reign of Henry 11, the Geraldines, a Norman family
from South Wales, captured Wexford and in due course subdued all Leinster.
They were followed by Strongbow and his lieutenant, Raymond Fitzgerald,
who extended Norman control over the surrounding territory, and in order
to maintain their authority many strongholds were built. These early
fortresses were no more than great earth mounds or mottes. Outside the
main castle, but linked to it to provide the necessary accommodation for
garrison, supplies and equipment, an embanked enclosure was formed known
as a “bailey.” These defences were at first no more than timber stockades,
but in the 12th and 13th centuries they were replaced by stone and more
elaborate forms of fortification.
Wherever the Normans invaded they consolidated their ground, and
evidence of their penetration can be seen in many parts of Leinster. Then
power was finally arrested in 1261, when the Irish, under MacCarthy, tell
upon the Geraldines in the valley of the Slaney, and thrust them back from
the remoter parts of the country.
One of the many castles established by Strongbow’s lieutenant, Raymond
“le Gros” Fitzgerald, in the 13th century was Johnstown Castle, south of
Wexford, shown in the accompanying illustration. Although the castle has
since been modernised it still incorporates one of the original towers, the
property was given to the nation in 1944, and it now serves as a State
agricultural college.


TRAINING PAYS
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
deneral Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON - ——
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(8.8.554) .
■ AGE.
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current/ N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, (flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
FLAGSTAD
Kirsten Flagstad’s autobiography, The
Flagstad Manuscript; As Told to Louis
Biancolli (Heinemann), is in truth an
apology for her life, as the second half
is mostly her defence, and her husband’s,
against the charge of being Nazis. Her
career progressed with the lazy ease of a
battleship, which did not have to justify
itself in action until her post-war visits
to the United States ; but then the guns
went off with a bang.
She was born at Hamar, Norway, in
1895, her father a violinist and her mother
a pianist; and in that year the family
moved to Oslo, the capital. She began
to play the piano at six, was studying
“Lohengrin” under her parents’ interested
eye at 10, and at 16 was appropriated by
a woman singing-teacher. In 1913, she
made her debut at the Oslo National
Theatre in Eugen d’Albert’s “Tiefland” ;
studied for a year with a Norwegian basso
who advised her to go to Stockholm ;
and there she was taken in hand by Dr.
Gillis Bratt, a Stockholm throat-specia-
list, who found her voice was too small,
drilled her twice a week, shouted her
into tears, and increased her voice in
three months to “six times its size” by
closing the vocal chords.
In 1919 she married the heir to a
large wholesale ironware and kitchen-
ware business, and went on singing in
opera in Copenhagen, Denmark and
Sweden until the birth of her daughter
in 1920. Wondering whether she would
still be able to sing, she took up the score
of Lehar’s “Gipsy Love”:
Mother had brought the score home
with her. We went over it together. I
started to sing and suddenly stopped.
Mother and I looked at each other. My
voice was at least twice as large as it had
been.
For whatever reason —her trips to sing
musical-comedy and opera; her touring
down into Italy to hear opera—she and
her husband made his business visit to
Canada the occasion of a judicial separa-
tion which, upon her meeting with the
lumber-tycoon, Henry Johansen, became
divorce. There was some understanding,
when she married Johansen, that she was
not to sing in public any more; but she
does not seem to have understood it very
well, and as Norwegian performances in
Wagner opened out into offers to sing at
Bayreuth and then the New York Metro-
politan, it became merely a tactful way
of explaining that she did not have to
sing for money.
There is an interesting account of her
gradual finding of Wagner, of whom she
became the greatest exponent in her day ;
getting engagements for roles in Wagner
operas she had never studied merely on
the promise of her performances in
others; working up from one to an-
other of “the three Briinnhildes” (of
“The Ring”), and actually bursting
through her skin, like a cicada, with the
effort to achieve the greatest and most
exacting of roles:
In studying and singing Isolde my back
had developed so tremendously from all the
heavy breathing that ray dresses actually
burst apart. They had become too tight
for me in the shoulders. Mind you, I had
not put on any additional weight. My
lungs had expanded so. I could hear the
difference, as well as feel it in my back-
muscles.
Flagstad has sung 182 times in “Tris-
tan and Isolde.”
The second part of the book begins
with the story of her return to Norway
after its occupation by the Germans and
the establishment of Quisling, to be with
her husband. She and his children by his
former wife persuaded Johansen to leave
“the party”; but on the Allies’ victory
over Germany, Johansen was imprisoned,
and died in prison, after which Prosecu-
tor Sundfor repeatedly refused her a
passport on the ground that “I was
needed to disentangle the combined
finances of my husband and myself.”
Finally the man who prosecuted Quisling,
Prosecutor Schoedt, took her to the
head of the department, and in face of
Sundfor declared that Flagstad should
get her passport; and she got it.
But these matters, and the matter of
the German party occupying the ''box
next to the Norwegian Ambassador at her
war-time concert in America—she explains
that it was not by her invitation —were
brought up against her in America. Her
1947 concerts were poorly attended.
Marcia Davenport wrote that after what
the world had gone through Americans
had no need of people like Flagstad. Her
Carnegie Hall concert was picketed;
the critics were polite, but cool. In
Philadelphia, the hall was full of police,
and she was booed at the end of each
song:—
I remember it was very silent in the few
minutes before I started Beethoven’s
“Wonne der Wehmut.” In that silence,
I heard it distinctly; it came from the
balcony, in two deliberate, spaced-out
tones: “Na.... zi! ”
But in England, Flagstad had a Covent
Garden season ; and she sang in Purcell’s
“Dido and Aineas” for Bernard Miles
and his miniature opera-house, the Mer-
maid Theatre; and the United Jewish
Relief Appeal asked her to give a benefit
for the relief of Jewish children victim-
ised by the war and the Occupation. So
that when, while she was singing in
Beethoven’s “Fidelio” at Salzburg in
1949, she received an offer to sing in the
New York Metropolitan on the follow-
ing year, she took some pleasure in
replying: “Sorry, not available.”
The offer of a few engagements at the
Metropolitan, of which she had been
star before the war, might have obviated
all the picketing which greeted her return
to America, Flagstad says. At the same
time, she explains that the approach
could have been nothing more than a
gesture, since her agent knew she was
completely booked for the following year
—this to soothe friends and admirers, who
cabled “How dare you say no to the
Metropolitan? We have been backing
you so strongly!”
Instead, she sang at San Francisco,
where the organisers replied to the war-
veterans who manage the Opera House,
a World War II memorial, that it was
either Flagstad or no opera-season.
Thereafter the picketing stopped. Her
concerts were again sold-out, and her
return to the Metropolitan in 1951 was
well received. She gave her last per-
formance of opera in America, her fare-
well-performance, in Gluck’s “Alcestis,”
April 1, 1952 ; and there they presented
her with a silver cup inscribed with the
roles she had sung at the Metropolitan.
Flagstad emotes considerably over that
sad moment, but likely enough the con-
templation of so many great parts so
nobly sung could not give her the im-
mense satisfaction of her v previous vow
of silence to the same institution;
“Sorry, not available.”
"Voices of Australia"
Under the above heading three books
of contemporary Australian poetry are
reviewed in “The Times Literary Supple-
ment” of 8/l/’54 —Judith Wright’s The
Gateway, Ernest G. Moll’s The Lifted
Spear and Wolfe Fairbridge’s Poems.
The review says (in part);
Miss Judith Wright (born 1915) is one of the
most distinguished of the younger Australian
poets. The Gateway is her third published
collection, although the first to appear here.
She is a poet of great imaginative power,
passionate and grave; she is both a love-poet
and a Nature-poet who strikes no fashionable
or time-frayed attitudes. She stands upon her-
self. Her love-poems are not romantic but
informed with an authentic womanly feeling:
love is creation. She is involved in Nature;
she is acutely aware of the dichotomy of birth
and decay, and of cruelty and beauty. This she
explores and seeks to resolve, uncovering rich
and evocative images; her pantheistic vision
constantly affirms life and its continuing
indivisibility . . .
Perhaps Miss Wright’s most successful poem
is “Legend,” with its enchanting opening
The Gateway is more uneven than Miss Wright’s
other two collections. Some of the lighter
lyrics do not come off entirely, but this does
not suggest a falling-off so much as a time of
pause and experiment.
Professor Ernest G. Moll has a much quieter
and slighter talent. He writes simply and with
schooled precision; sometimes he stalks his
reader with sly humor and wit as in “Spider”
and “The, Wood-Cutter.” He gathers together
in The Lifted Spear 20 short verses and a long
narrative poem, “Jonah at Nineveh.”
Wolfe Seymour Fairbridge, a younger son
of Kingsley Fairbridge, died in 1950 when he
was 31.... The 34 poems and the unfinished
sonnet sequence, “Darwin,” show a strong
individual talent working towards fulfilment.
What Australian (and English) letters have lost
by his early death is conveyed by the closely
wrought thought in the opening poem,
“Consecration of the House,” of which this
is the last stanza:
House, you are done . . . And nevermore
So painted, new, so arrogantly clean;
The tang of lime, the horrid clang
Of footsteps on the naked floor
Will fade to a serene
Patina of sounds and smells that hang
Like the reverberations of a shore
Of history: a hive where love has been,
And whence the future sprang.
Be powerful above us all. Be sure.
Ghosts Wanted
Dear Red Page, —I hope to include in
a forthcoming Ghost Book a lengthy
chapter on such Australian ghosts and
hauntings as I was told about during my
recent travels in your Commonwealth.
It occurs to me, however, that there
may be several instances of this kind of
thing which your readers might feel in-
clined to relate, with a view to their
possible inclusion in my Ghost Book. If
so, it would be gratifying to learn of
them.
As far as is practicable, dates and pre-
cise location of happenings, as well as
the names of persons concerned, should
be supplied, since this imparts to such
accounts an air of authenticity. Proper-
names should be printed for clarity.
It would be doubly helpful if those
interested could also send a good, glossy
photograph of any haunted houses or
scenes they know of. — Alasdair Alpin
MacGregor (78 Swan Court, London,
S.W.3),
Fight for the Ashes
Living tip to its sub-title “A Complete
Account of the Australian Tour,”
the first book to hand on the recent
cricket-junketings in England, The'Fight
for the Ashes, 1953, by Peter West (Aus-
tralasian), gives a full-enough story of the
Australians’ match-play. There are fore-
words by the two captains, Len Hutton
and Lindsay Hassett. The author, un-
known in Australia, covered the tour as
a B.B.C. broadcaster and on television.
Beginning with some remarks about the
selected Australians, and some news and
views on each side’s chances, etc., the
book then outlines each match in succes-
sion, and the scores in full are given. The
Tests naturally are more fully dealt with.
After the Ashes are won come “Thoughts
on the Test Series” and, to conclude the
text, a round-up on the tourists individu-
ally, “We Shall Remember Them.” On
Craig, for instance, who failed so badly
in England, “If he comes again in 1956—
as I am sure he must —I should not be
at all surprised to see him score 2000
runs.”
England, of course, won back the
Ashes by its victory in the fifth Test, the
first four having been drawn. Before the
final decision the series had been a see-
saw affair.
The first Test, when the giant Bedser
was the English star, with his 7-55 and
7-44, was a moral win for England, which,
before rain interfered, had two whole
days in which to score 187 with nine
wickets in hand.
The second Test was as indubitably
a moral victory for Australia. Only a
stout ? day-long batting effort by, in par-
ticular, Bailey and Watson, staved-offi
defeat for England. It was after this Test
that Bradman said: “If we get another
Test-match like this I shan’t be able to
stand the strain.” Many others thought
the same, and it certainly proved that a
drawn game can be exciting.
The third Test was going England’s
way when time ran out; and Australia
had the fourth well in the bag, 30 runs
only to get with four men out. Apropos,
England’s saviour, this time as a bowler,
was again Bailey, that “prime saver of
lost causes,” who kept down the runs,
and thus prevented Australia winning,
while the other bowlers were all getting
punished. Bailey is perhaps, on his form
in this series, the world’s best Test all-
rounder ; but “I am not quite prepared to
cede him that title, for Keith Miller
has surely some prosperous and boister-
ous years ahead of him still.”
Peter West gives an instance of the
spirit of sportsmanship in which the
Tests were played: the English opener
Kenyon, in the second Test, at the time
fighting (unsuccessfully) to hold a place
in the side, unhesitatingly walked out
after knowing that he had snicked the
ball behind, though, had he stood firm,
he may well have been given not-out.
West draws a remarkable similarity
between the England-Australia Tests
following the two World Wars : —
After each of the World Wars Australia
won eleven Test-matches before England
gained another victory. Each time that
-ore
t ] lere were four drawn
fifth m.fS England won through in the
> ! c l he oval and 80 regained
3Ch time three of the four
r ,,f n wn o ”} atches w fre interfered with by
mltAh and °V each . occasion the Lord’s
match was played without any time being
lost. In each of these historic years one
captain sent his opponents in to bat upon
winning the toss, and on each occasion he
chose to do so at Leeds.
• tde P va * [1953] Australia made 275
? lolf J* rs 1 t innings and England 306.
i 5J 9: England scored 280 and Australia
302. But there the resemblance ends
Fiom that record he deduces (direful fore-
bodings for Australia, if true) that if
history continues to repeat itself, on the
basis of Chapman’s 1928-29 tour, Eng-
land will win the 1954-55 series four-to-
one!
Reviewed Briefly
A Book of Trials: Sir Travers
Humphreys (Heinemann). Sir Travers
was engaged as counsel in cases concern-
ing Oscar Wilde, Crippen, Bottomley,
Bywaters and Thompson, and a number
of spy- and treason-trials; as judge he
tried “The Chinese Murder,” Haigh, etc.
His descriptions of these trials are always
to the point, always extremely interesting,
always excellently lucid in style.
* * * «
Scot Free : Wilfred Taylor (Reinhardt).
Mr. Taylor says he was asked to write
“a funny book about Scotland” and the
book shows clear signs of the struggle
to perform so alarming a task: in spite
of which, it is genuinely amusing in spots.
It’s a sort of general run-around the con-
temporary Scottish scene with travel,
personalities, university reminiscences and
a detailed account of the spiriting-away
of the famous Stone of Scone.
* * * *
The Conquest of Devil’s Island: Charles
Pean (Parrish). The story of how the
Salvation Army worked for improved
conditions in the notorious penal-colony
and at last got it abolished. One misses
in this book the intimate portraits and
psychological studies of the prisoners now
common in American prison-books; but
the story of die crusade is in itself in-
teresting and there are moments —as in
the episode of the escaped prisoner who
called on Pean in Paris, still, at 40, in
constant dread of rearrest for the crime
he committed when he was 17 —when
there is a glimpse of the inferno of Les
Miserables.
* $ * *
Above Us the Waves: C. E. T. Warren
and Jambs Benson (Harrap). The authors
were both members of that select and
valiant band of human-torpedomen and
midget-submariners who enforced the
British Navy’s maxim of “destroy the
enemy wherever he may be found.” The
dust-jacket claims that the story of these
secret underwater craft is late in being
told. Unfortunately for this restrained
and forceful document the story has been
told, in several books, the best of which is
The Frogmen. The climax-story—the
attack by midget subs, on the Tirpitz—
adds little to the account of the same
operation in J. E. Macdonnell’s Valiant
Occasions. The one point where the
present book scores over The Frogmen
is in the authors’ clear depiction of
character —the lack of which is a standing
fault with naval documentaries.
* * * *
Prince of Players, Edwin Booth:
Eleanor Ruggles (Peter Davies). Bio-
graphy of the great American actor,
notable both for the tumult and tragedy
of Booth’s life and for the excellent
accounts of his performances in Shak-
spearian plays, especially “Lear” and
“Hamlet.” An extraordinarily dramatic
chapter describes the assassination of
Abraham Lincoln by Edwin Booth’s
brother, John Wilkes Booth, while Edwin
was playing at the Boston theatre. The
news was broken to him by his negro
dresser, who rushed into his bedroom
pushing a newspaper at him and sobbing,
“Oh, Massa Edwin, the President has been
shot! And oh, Massa Edwin, I’m afraid
Massa John has done it!” Edwin Booth
played in Melbourne and Sydney in 1854,
but “business was terrible in Melbourne,"
and, so Miss Ruggles says, he was almost
slain by an “enormous coconut” which
crashed from a palmtree while, “outside
the city,” he was lying in its shade.


*
Senior Store News
weekly news of activities , values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
TRY THESE
SERVICES
use our
convenient
Lay-by
Service
It’s a wonderful help when
special bargains are being
offered. Just a small de-
posit secures the goods for
you, then pay the balance
off in convenient monthly
payments. Country cus-
tomers, too, can lay-by,
just by forwarding us the
deposit (4/- in the £).
We’ll reserve whatever
you want by monthly
payments till finalised.
Second Floor,
at f/oiii*
Service our
Caterin
Staff!
If you’ve a party, wedding
reception or celebration,
our catering experts will
arrange everything for you
, . . food, decorations and
cutlery. Well lend our
cutlery, crockery and
glassware for that special
occasion—the charges are
very moderate
Ring M 2401.
Dial
M 2401
ash for
Copyright
for service
T.0.P.5., our Telephone
Orders and Personal Shop'
ping Service, is the easy,
modern way to shop.
Specially instituted for the
benefit of our customers
who for various reasons
find it inconvenient to
come to town, T.O.P.S. is
open from 8.30 a.m. every
day, Monday to Saturday.
Forget-me-not
A special service instituted
by T.O.P.S. to help you
remember those easily for-
gotten anniversaries, birth'
days, etc. Just ring
M 2401 and let T.O.P.S.
register it so that they can
ring .you and remind you
vn plenty of time next year.
1
m
#s
»
c
M
sa?**;
£*««».
iaa*ayfe
;;v
:*c
r>^v
!vv:
li
c-cw*«!^
.vv.v^^ivSf
s*s
Our
beautiful
Contemporary Shop
is a haven for Homemakers
#„ . „
If you’re dreaming of a home furnished in the modern manner with tasteful, “glossy magazine
pieces that can lift a home right out of the ordinary without lifting the budget sky high
. . our wonderful CONTEMPORARY SHOP can make those dreams come true. High
above the street, indeed high above the usual standard of furniture show-rooms, this
ultra-smart shop within a shop the CONTEMPORARY SHOP was specially designed
for your convenience along sth Avenue lines by our own furniture designers. Here,
in this ultra smart shop within a shop, is'every facility for you, the home planner, to select
your furniture and furnishing with the help of our three experienced interior designers. Here, you will
see carpets, ceramics, accessories and stark little knick-knacks.
Here, too, you can seek guidance on how to plan a colour
scheme to suit your home and surroundings,' complete a half'
furnished room or furnish a new home. Come,
bring your plans and problems in let us help you create an
unusual and individual furnishing scheme!
1
—
->
Sr>
•s
tSuy your home plans nt our • • •
“Home Plans Bureau”
Here you can choose a plan to suit your type of land and to pander to your own particular tastes from
our wide range of at least 25 moderately priced plans all designed by well-known Sydney architect
h scopies of specifications for
6 gns.
This includes any necessary ground level alterations.
Contemporary Shop. Third Floor. Home Plans Bureau. Third Floor.
::
i m
... \ , :
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthonj Hordern’
PHONE T.O.P.S. .(M 2 4 01) FOR YOUR ORDER OR MAIL TO BOX 27 1% G. P. 0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 3, 1954
Yol. 75—No. 3864
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
-" , %
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Priot
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
COULD WE SURVIVE EVATT?
With the Federal election set down for May 29, the
agreement between the Government parties in respect
of nominations greatly improves the chances-of a
Liberal-C.P. victory. All the pointers over the past
six months have suggested a return of the Menzies-
Fadden Ministry.
What the Opposition thinks about it is shown by
the details of the party’s programme which have been
allowed to leak out as bait for electors. They amount
support. Whatever the Government
offers, “Labor” will offer more.
If Mr. Menzies is aiming to abolish the means-
Icst in the pension scheme by a gradual process, Dr.
Evatt (with a protesting Arthur Calwell clinging to his
coat-tails) is ready to go the whole hog and wipe the
test out in one act. And for good measure he is appar-
ently ready to throw in 2 per cent. loans to home-buyers
(taxpayers in general, not Dr. Evatt, providing the
rest of the interest), home-purchase plans to compete
with private companies, marriage-loans, bounties for
industry, and a “realistic” defence programme.
“Realistic”! When Dr. Evatt was Minister for
External Affairs his favorite adviser was Dr. Burton,
whom he made head of the External Affairs Depart-
ment, and he favored Mr. Macmahon Ball, who is just
now busy in Japan urging the Japanese to resist the
Americans and to enter into relationships with Red
China. It is, in fact, on Dr. Evatt that the guns of the
Government party in New South Wales should be
heavily concentrated. The Liberal party should compile
a dossier on Dr. Evatt’s old associations and twist-
ings and especially his attitude towards Britain
and the United States while he was Minister for
External Affairs. Mr. Calwell has lately been making
a great mouthful about our “lack of defence” in the
north. Would he say that Dr. Evatt improved our
position when he placed the Mandated Territory under
U.N.O. trusteeship?
Going back earlier, we have it on the
authority of the Doctor’s sycophantic supporter.
Dr. Lloyd Ross, of the Australian Rail-
ways Union, that the first approaches which were
made to him (when he was on the High Court
Bench) to enter Federal politics came from the Hughes-
Evans group, which was a Communist group which
had temporarily captured the “Labor” machine in
N. S. Wales, and about whose views and allegiance
at the time such moves as the Hands Off Russia resolu-
tion at the 1940 annual conference of the party left
little doubt. Dr. Evatt, as a political leader, has had
strong Communist support almost ever since.
As a leader also he was extolled by the Communist
party from the first as “a liberal,” which means
somebody not a Communist who suits the party’s
purposes. The Doctor’s entry into office was also
hailed with joy by the Civil Liberties League, which
was almost entirely concerned with maintaining liberty
for Communists while supporting the internment of
innocent Australia First men. One of these men
died as the result of. his internment —an ex-
soldier, a brave fellow. Only shortly before
being placed behind barbed-wire he had
been specially commended for extinguishing a
fire in a Government explosive factory, and his record
justified the opinion expressed of him before the
royal commission which sat on his case (after he was
dead) that he was a “King and Empire man.” It was
notable that while Dr. Evatt 1 and his colleague Mr.
Forde hastened to release the Communists Ratliff and
Thomas, against the recommendation of an intern-
ment tribunal, the unfortunate and innocent Australia
First men had to be rescued from their durance against
the resistance of Dr. Evatt, and that, even after their
release,.and when their innocence was clearly known,
they were harassed and harried by security men,
restricted in the places in which they were allowed
to live and in their movements and denied reasonable
compensation, Dr. Evatt pleading the Statute of
Limitations.
The Fourteen Points charter which Dr. Evatt
brought forward in 1944 for acceptance had the warm
support of the Communists. They acted on the com-
mittees which were officially formed to further this,
specious plan. Communists and “Labor” men spoke
together under Dr. Evatt’s leadership in support of it
on the same platform at a time when the Communist
party had recently had the ban of illegality removed
from it by Dr. Evatt’s party.
If all this is not enough, the fierce fight of the
Doctor against the legislation for the suppression of the
Communist party brought in by the Menzies Govern-
ment needs to have some consideration by the electors.
His High Court pleadings against the validity of the
Communist-party Dissolution Act and his subsequent
campaign against the Menzies Government’s
referendum to validate the legislation were brilliant
and successful; and, of course, they were staunchly
backed by the Communist party.
Anyone who studies the political record of Dr.
Evatt closely will come to the conclusion that he stands
out as an able lawyer, a clever and determined poli-
tical opportunist, but without one overt constructive
act to his credit. He has spent his life pleading
and manoeuvring to his own political advantage. In
the comparatively minor role of Minister for External
Affairs he. often embarrassed the Western nations,
more particularly Britain, and he frequently confounded
his staff. Paul Hasluck, one of his diplomats of the
time, resigned from the service after he found the
twistings of the Doctor altogether too much for him —
Our Foreign Policy Bird used to “change its plumage
in mid-flight.” Even Macmahon Ball broke with him
for a; time.
At this present point in Australia’s history its
overseas relations and its internal economics are of
vital importance to its existence as a free, white
country. The maintenance of harmony, without loss of
dignity or economic advantage, with British countries
and the United States is essential. On Dr. Evatt’s
past record could anyone expect our present cordial
relations with Western countries to continue* if he
came into power? The Foreign Policy Bird has been
on its perch now for the past four years, and it has
had no chance to fly. But how would the Western
nations react to another exhibition of policy-changes
in mid-flight if Dr. Evatt were to become Prime
Minister and, as would be extremely likely. Minister
for External Affairs?
In the field of economics the Doctor has not even
an amateur status. He is palpably a quack. Jock
Garden, who late in life took on the publication of
astrology journals, claimed .at a distressing moment
in his own career that Dr. Evatt studied economics
under his tuition. One can well believe that he did,
and that he took a double course, including astrology ;
also, that he has never been able in his mind to
separate the two subjects since.
Dr. Evatt vehemently opposed the financial
measures the present Government took in 1951 in
order to combat inflation. He went all the way with
Mr. Calwell in damning the measures as a “horror
Budget.” Yet the Menzies-Fadden measures—the
greatest act of peace-time statesmanship in recent
memory—which are now turning out most successfully,
would have been successful ever so much more quickly
and effectively if all political parties co-operated
sincerely in implementing them.
It has been made clear, also, from the meeting
of Commonwealth Finance Ministers in Sydney in
January, that the British Commonwealth countries and
the U.S.A. are co-operating as free nations for the
re-establishment of free enterprise as the mainsprings
of their economy. Could Evatt —the totalitarian-
minded Evatt of the 14-points referendum —and his
A-L.P. possibly co-operate harmoniously in this pro-
gramme, and would the United States trust him?
If Australian political leadership passes to Evatt
and his team during the next few years it will be one
of the tragedies of modern Australia, just as N. S. Wales
under Cahill is already tragic.
A Trust Betrayed
Between July, 1950, when the N, S. Wales Govern-
ment appointed Mr. Justice Maxwell as royal com-
missioner on the liquor industry, and the release of
his report last week, something like 2000 million
schooners of beer were consumed by the citizens of
N. -S. Wales, and a large proportion of that vast lake
of liquor was imbibed under “pig-swilling” conditions
such as “ought not to be tolerated in a civilised com-
munity.” The comment is Judge Maxwell's, but any-
one who doubts the validity of the description can
check it readily enough by making a quick tour of
Sydney hotels any day between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.
The commissioner reports in this connection;
There can he no doubt upon the evidence that in
the metropolitan area conditions associated with six-
o’clock closing; are deplorable. AparJ from any other
consideration, a refusal to attempt some reform
involves, in my opinion, the conscious perpetuation
of a clearly-established evil. In addition, the present
closing-hour encourages sly-grog and after-hour
trading at blackmarket rates.
His Honor suggests what he calls a “staggering
of hours,” by which he means closing down for a few
hours during the day and reopening in the evening;
also an extension of the hours in which restaurants
and night-clubs may serve liquor with meals and an
increase in the number of club-licences —at present
these are tied in a mysterious way to the number of
hotels in a licensing district.
In giving it as his opinion that six-o’clock closing
ericourages sly-grogging and blackmarket-trading, the
commissioner is merely giving judicial recognition to
what has been common knowledge in Sydney for
many years. It was this notorious fact which led, over
four years ago, to demands for a royal commission—
demands which the “Labor” Government, for reasons
best-known to itself and proved by subsequent events
to be entirely inadequate, resisted as long as it dared.
Shortages in any commodity may lead to black-
market traffic, and there is no doubt that there has
been, ever since the war, a shortage of bottled beer
in New South Wales. But as far as the legitimate
market is concerned the shortage has been aggravated,
as, the inquiry has revealed, by the greed of
unscrupulous people in all sections of the industry.
These include publicans who had litfle or no bottled
beer for over-the-counter sale, but plenty for the men
who came round at night in trucks; spirit-merchants
who diverted their supplies from the legitimate trade
to persons not authorised to buy for resale- chain
store grocers who misused their spirit-licences • at
least one brewery employee who collaborated with a
publican to sell “on the black” beer which had been
obtained on the pretext that it was to go to R.SL
clubs.
On the admission of people intimately connected
with the Roosevelt, “one of the most infamous night-
clubs,” at least 250. dozen bottles a week were received
there from various sources—all at top prices. Sammy
Lee’s restaurant, “a notorious night-club,” was shown
to have received 215 dozen a week, plus extra supplies
of English beer and also “liquor bought from men who
called in a truck from day to day.”
Another night-club, the Riverview, was found to
have drawn 50 dozen bottles a week from the House
of Hayes, 50 dozen from CaviH’s, large supplies from
four named hotels and from five other unidentified
suppliers. As in the case of the Roosevelt and Sammy
Lee’s, the commissioner stressed that these were
minimum figures; the real score was probably con-
siderably higher. Moreover, they were cited as
illustrations only.
As it has long been known that there is no real
difficulty in getting liquor (at a price) at unlicensed
night-clubs, it has naturally been a matter of frequent
comment that the places seem to be more or less
immune from raids or investigations by the police. The
commissioner found this a matter of some wonder-
ment —so much so that he questioned several high-
ranking members of the police force, and inquired
into- their financial affairs. His Honor still had cause
for wonderment after he had heard them.
Former Metropolitan Superintendent Sweeney,'for
example, told the commission that he did not even
suspect that the law was being broken in night-clubs
night after night. Judge Maxwell felt that Sweeney’s
attitude
at least leads to the suspicion that his insistence
on a lack of knowledge is due to his inability to
explain that share of inactivity with respect to night-
clubs for which he was responsible.
Superintendent Thompson, who succeeded
Sweeney as metropolitan superintendent, told the com-
mission that the department had “a policy of tolera-
tion” towards the night-clubs, and that it had arisen
during the term of office of Police-commissioner
Mac Kay. No written evidence could be found to
support this, and it was denied by several other police
witnesses. His Honor found Thompson “an unreliable
witness.” However,
there is no evidence that he gave any direct instruc-
tion to ensure immunity, nor is there evidence that
he stifled prosecution of night-club proprietors
There is no evidence that his assets were increased
unlawfully in his association with liquor administra-
tion.
I am wholly dissatisfied with his explanations as
to his financial affairs I am satisfied that he
sought to hide the real source of a substantial portion
of his income.
The commissioner found the evidence of several
other police-officers unsatisfactory. Sergeant Freeman
(Paddington) he found to be grossly negligent and
quite unfit to be a member of the Vice-Squad. Night-
clubs in his area were notorious for sly-grog trading,
and “they had a strikingly successful run of freedom
from prosecution.” Sergeant Corrigan, a Vice-Squad
man in the city area, was not criticised for negligence,
but for what might be called excessive zeal.
There is, in particular, clear evidence that he
paid much more attention to one restaurant in par-
ticular (th© Black Tulip) than to other restaurants
in his area. Whilst I agree that this, in itself, is
insufficient to prove corruption on his part, it does, ,
in its setting, give rise to Suspicion affecting
Corrigan.
His Honor found himself unable to accept
Corrigan’s explanation of the sources of his income,
but as he was unable to satisfy himself beyond reason-
able doubt that any of the accretion was due to
activities connected with liquor, he was unable, within
his terms of reference, to make any finding.
Of Superintendents Sweeney and Thompson the
commissioner said they had betrayed their trust and
failed in the duties their office required of them. Their
inaction had lulled the men beneath them into feeling
that they were doing as much as the department
required of them. However, he felt that some of the
officers with lesser responsibility must also bear some
of the criticism.
That last remark might well have an application
upward as well as downward. If the rank-and-file took
their cue from the superintendents, might not the
superintendents justly claim that they were basing
their own policy on the masterly inactivity of their
superiors? Specifically, the inactivity of their
Ministerial masters? Judging by the attitude of the
“Labor” Government to demands for a royal commis-
sion on liquor, no member of the Government had any
more suspicion than Superintendent Sweeney admitted
of what was really going on in the night-clubs, yet
they had been told of the blackmarket racket in the
Press and in Parliament times out of number. If a
Government shows itself indifferent to the administra-
tion of its laws, it should not be surprised if the laws
are laxly administered.
Reluctance to face facts squarely has been and
still is one of the most notable traits of the Cahill
Government. It was shown in its tardiness in setting-
up the liquor commission, and in its efforts to avoid an
inquiry into the Doyle-Arthur relationships. The same
attitude is still evident towards the current afiegations
of police-bribery ; and in order to stifle Press investiga-
tion of charges of corruption in the City Council it
went so far as to introduce its notorious Press Gag Act.
With a Government which consistently shuts its
eyes and ears to unpleasant sights and sounds, it is
surely not merely a coincidence that in New South
Wales alone of all the States has the blackmarket in
beer become notorious big business.


THE SIGNAL


PLAIN ENGLISH
Margins and the Court
Probably the most difficult problem that'
has faced the Arbitration Court since the
war is that of margins, on which the court
made a pronouncement last week. It is
common knowledge that the relative
position of the skilled worker in compari-
son with the unskilled has deteriorated,
largely for the reason that although the
basic-wage element of their respective
wage-rates has risen in the same degree,
the allowance for skill has been virtually
unchanged and has therefore become,
with each successive increase in the basic
wage, a smaller percentage of the total
wage.
On the personal side this has
caused much heartburning; from the
national viewpoint it could, if persisted
in for long, prove disastrous owing to its
deterrent effect upon recruiting for skilled
trades. This position has been aggravated
by the fact that since the war increases
in the margins of the unskilled have been
relatively higher than those of the skilled.
Of all these things the court has shown
itself to be well aware, but it has pointed
out that the unions had not proffered
evidence or made out a case for alteration
of margins based on skill; although they
based their claim on the proposition that
the relative marginal remuneration for
skilled work above unskilled had de-
clined through decreased purchasing-
power, they sought increases for skilled
and unskilled alike.
In adjourning the case until November
9, the court said that it was not satisfied
that there had been any substantial im-
provement in the economic situation and
that it was not justified in decreeing a
considerable increase in the level of the
secondary wage-structure of industry.
Moreover, it indicated that if it had had
to give a final decision at the present
juncture it would have been that the
unions had failed to satisfy it that their
claims ought to be granted.
In postponing the case the court is
obviously continuing its “breathing-,
space” policy which it started with the
suspension of quarterly adjustments.
Any increase in margins at the present
time would nullify the effects of the
basic-wage freeze and set prices soaring
again. The court recognises that “a com-
plete review and reassessment of the
minimum margins” is' desirable, but
emphasises-that the national economy is
an overriding consideration.
During the breathing-space before the
case is resumed the unions might well
give some thought—awkward though it
may be for their internal politics— to the
relative economic importance of their
skilled and unskilled members.
Out and In in Egypt
The Middle East, so important to Aus-
tralia’s communications in a world war,
is flaring up again, the foci of dissension
being Israel and the Sudan.
With Israel the Arab League States
will have nothing to do. Last week the
Iraqis made it clear that they would not
co-operate in a defence pact with Turkey
as part of the general plan of Western
security to include Israel. They followed
this with a strong suggestion that they
were about to divert the pipeline which
carries their oil to the Mediterranean
from Haifa, in Israel to Lebanese terri-
tory ; scarcely, one would imagine, a
measure of security, since the Lebanese
Government when last heard of was in
the middle of one of its numerous
revolutions.
On February 15 Egypt refused to
remove restrictions on shipping in the
Suez Canal and the Gulf of Akaba
aimed to stop the shipment of Israeli
strategic supplies and food. Its delegate
to the United Nations, General Ghaleb,
spoke of “Zionist expansion growing
from a nightmare into an ugly, daylight
fact, with the threat of Israel to force her
flagships through the Suez Canal and into
Egyptian territorial waters.”
At the other end of the M.-E. defence-
line on February 17 Major Salah Salem,
Minister of National Guidance in Egypt,
was accusing the British of applying the
principle of divide-and-rule in the Sudan
by raising the tribesmen of the south in
agitation against the north. At the same
time the Minister announced that General
Neguib had changed his mind about
attending the opening of the first Sudan
Parliament on March 1 and intended to
leave Cairo for Khartoum on February
28.
He didn’t leave. It seemed that his
action was the last straw for the extrem-
ists, and three days before he was to go
to Khartoum army officers had his
house surrounded by troops under the
supervision of the fanatical Major
Salem and replaced him in the office of
Prime Minister by the young Colonel
Nasser, a violent hater of everything
British and a typical Middle-East demo-
crat of the present era. The Presidency,
which Neguib also held, was to remain
vacant for the present, and the kind of
people who took control can be estimated
from the remarks of the gentle Salem,
who, acting Neguib of sabotaging the
Revolutionary Council’s work, added:
“We would have killed him, but we
decided to do as we did with Farouk.” So
General Neguib was asked to “stay at
home till things settled down.”
However, on the very morning after
Salem’s bloodthirsty statement was issued
and the 40 Army officers who had made
the new revolution had been debating
whether to kill Neguib, he was brought
back to the Presidency to “preserve the
unity of the nation,” the gentle popula-
tion having, as usual, resorted to lethal
demonstration which had satisfied the
insurgents that their captive was too hot
to hold and that they had# better get on-
side with him quickly. Nasser takes over
the Prime Ministership and leadership of
the Revolutionary Council. Everybody
in Cairo remains happy and will
continue to be so until the urge to murder
and revolt rises once more.
Efficiency in Public Service
“M.”; It is a pity that the Public
Service Board, in its report to the Prime
Minister and Parliament, was not so
crisp throughout as when it said that
“above everything else, achievement of
a high level of efficiency in the service
rests on the ability of its leaders to stimu-
late enthusiasm, initiative, and a desire
for improvement through all grades of
staff.”
In some much-woollier phrases the
board says that the condition and effici-
ency of a public service of more than
147,000, which is to-day’s figure, engaged
in a variety of activities and spread over
a whole continent, “is not easily evalu-
ated or readily reportable,” • and that
“efficiency is conditioned by a combina-
tion of factors which are susceptible to
changing circumstances,” After some
more of this double-talk the board
announces that in the interests of efficiency
it believes in delegating authority to heads
of departments and in advising depart-
ments on better working methods, adding,
rather surprisingly in view of its earlier
assertions, that the level of efficiency of
the public service is “generally good.”
Observers who live cheek-by-jowl with
the public service but don’t belong to it
will believe that the board could not over-
stress the need for enthusiasm and initia-
tive, People are apt to get misleading
impressions of the public service because
their dealings are usually either on the
lowest levels, through inquiry-desks and
messengers, or with the often outstand-
ing departmental heads, who have
custqmarily made their way by ability
and hard work, plus “enthusiasm and
initiative.” The great bulk of the service
lies between the two, hidden from the
public’s view by partitions and files,
reading the morning’s newspapers before
lifting a pen, finding time for a mid-
morning yam on race prospects or foot-
ball results, and sauntering to the wash-
room well ahead of the early hour which
for most marks the close of another day’s
toil. Those with a “desire for improve-
ment” probably show greater application,
especially in grades where promotion can
be gained by harder and better work
rather than by seniority alone ; and there
are, of course, many thousands of con-
scientious and hard-working men and
women in all grades who are keen on their
work and do it well.
But, by and large, enthusiasm and the
public service don’t seem synonymous.
The sense of security, the numbing effect
of poor example, the good pay (nowa-
days) easily earned, dull all but the most
driving ambitions. The board itself seems
to acknowledge this by its comments on
the value of its courses of administrative
training, which “can change officers’
attitudes to their work, build morale,
develop a critical and constructive
approach towards existing systems and
methods of work, and underline the im-
portance of human relationships in
administration.”
Perhaps these courses will eventually
change all attitudes inside the service,
but for the present the average public ser-
vant in a snug berth looks out at the
jungle of the outer competitive world with
a mixture of contempt and apprehension,
thankful that automatic rises come
around, that responsibility can usually
be’ shelved or passed on, and that it
would require almost superhuman effort
to join the hundred or so who are listed
as “dismissed” each year.
The Lismore Flood
“Mullum" : The on the Richmond
River of N.S.W. was a record, not only
m the height it reached but in the speed
with which the water rose. In Lismore
the post-office comer is considered a con-
venient flood-gauge. Once the water
crosses the corner the flood can be con-
sidered a major one. From then rises
of only two to six inches an hour are
expected. This- time the water rose a
further five feet in an hour-and-a-half
Many workers, lifting stock in the stores'
were surprised by this swift rise, and
their cars were submerged; they spent
Saturday-night in second-floor store-
rooms.
AU available police being on duty
rescuing floodibound householders and
caring for the refugees, the traffic had to
control itself. Generally it managed very
well. Monday-morning found Lismores
main shopping-block (the city is built
round a block instead of the usual main-
street of a country town) almost clear
of water, and the work of cleaning-up
began. There were stocks to be sal-
vaged and the mess of mud, sod-
den paper and cardboard and unsalvage-
able goods to be cleared away. The water-
supply had failed, and the fire brigade
spent all day pumping water from the
slowly-receding flood to help wash out
business premises.
Bank-clerks, dressed only in shorts,
were pushing brooms and mops, while
their ledgers stood on the steps of the
banks, drying in the sun. Solicitors, with-
out shirts or boots, were spreading legal
documents on tables and chairs behind
broken windows to dry. Busy chain-
stores, with doors —and, in many cases,
windows—wide open, held only their
staffs, shovelling and sweeping. The sun
shone fiercely, and mud on roadways and
footpaths began to dry, and to smell.
Indoors, lamps and lanterns provided
light for the cleaning-up.
Most houses which the flood had
missed’ sheltered two families. With-
out electricity, gas and water, meals
had to be prepared. Fortunately, many
houses still have tanks, and drinking-
water was usually not hard to get.
With the sudden rise of the flood, after
the shops had closed on Saturday, many
homes were left without kerosene and
methylated spirits; cooking thus was
often a co-operative business. Primuses
and spirit stoves were passed over many
back fences. •
While the flood receded, and the city
began its clean-up, for many people the
worst was still to come. Homes still par-
tially submerged had to be cleaned out
later. Much furniture would be fit only
to be thrown away, or bravely salvaged
and repaired until its replacement could
be afforded. Sodden blankets and mat-
tresses would, somehow, have to be dried
out, and walls and floors scrubbed and
scrubbed again. Then we look for rain.
Yes, after the flood we want rain to wash
away the mud. Without rain the sickly-
sweet stench of flood mud will cover
the whole area for weeks.
Russia Woos South Asia
“1.T.A.”: Ceylon’s Finance Minister,
Sir Oliver Goonetilleke, said in unde-
signedly metrical terms in Sydney
recently that “the present quiet in Asia
is the calm before the storm.” Students
of international affairs prepared to find
some grim humor in coincidence may be
amused that the evidence was furnished
by a Russian delegate in Ceylon itself
an independent member-country of the
British Commonwealth whose entry into
the United Nations has been consistently
prevented by the Russian veto.
In this instance the Russians have
cynically used the United Nations as the
cover for a blatant attempt at peaceful
penetration of Asian countries which
have hitherto resisted the Communists,
using a technique which we must admit
is borrowed from the Colombo Plan and
Point Four, and which will be corres-
pondingly harder to combat. It began
soon after the 10th session of the U.N-
Economic Commission for Asia and the
Far East (ECAFE) opened in Colombo
on February 8. Ceylon’s Prime Minister
made an impeccable speech, saying that
foreign capital and enterprise would be
welcomed, “so long as no political strings
were attached.” The Indonesians, the
Indians and the Burmese joined in simi-
lar remarks, and they were followed by
the Soviet delegate, M. A. Menshikov.
There was nothing subtle about hint-
He said, according to the Ceylon Gov-
ernment’s official report, that “he woul
like to invite two to five representative*
from India, Burma, Indonesia, Ceylon,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Thailand, Japan,
the Philippines, Nepal, Malaya and Bntisn
(Continued on next page)
Apology to Her Majesty
(February, 1954)
Dear Queen Elizabeth, Our Noble Duke,
We plead in answer to the world’s
rebuke:
This is the first chance that we could
reveal
Our love for you made visible and real.
Till now, it was relayed by worthy
scholars.
And men whose speech was stiffer than
their collars.
By newsmen, cables and the broadcast
session,
But we, the people, need our own
expression. '
Love seeks a truer voice for its sub-
missions
Than the repeated words of politicians.
Forgive us for the tumult of our shout-
ing.
Our hearts have saved for years towards
this Outing.
You are the symbol of our Motherland,
The Justice, Strength, and Hope by
which we stand.
All our traditions, our ancestral past
Wrapped in one figure we can see at
last.
All that is British, will be, and has been.
Is symbolised by our most gracious
Queen.
Children in exile, or colonial sons.
Under new laws we cherish ancient ones.
Sensing the “breath of home” our hearts
lift up
To bring our tribute in a brimming
cup.
Forgive us for “the ruffians” we are,
Tossing our flags and roses at your car.
More than a symbol, you have always
been
The Princess who was bom to be our
Queen,
The child who with the Princess
Margaret Rose
Played in the gardens, filmed without a
pose,
The girl who spoke to nations far apart
In broadcasts with a message from her
heart,
A Princess in her bridal garments
gowned,
A happy mother, and a monarch
crowned.
Though half the world away, our love
has grown
Until we claim the dream fulfilled, our
own.
Forgive us if its rays are overstrong,
The sunshine of our love has wintered
long.
We only shared unknown and silently
The life you knew, its joys and
pageantry;
We could not join the wonderful ovation
Of wedding-day or gala Coronation,
And cheer the great parades or see you
stand
On castle balconies to wave your hand.
We could not show our sympathy and
wait
In anxious days about the palace gate.
This is the only chance time has
afforded
To show the years of love that we have
hoarded.
Forgive us if we press a little close
Or in our wonder stare, appearing
gross.
Our land is lusty, vigorous and young,
Our songs, if roughly, are sincerely sung,
Our ways are generous, albeit blunt;
Enthusiasm is our chief affront.
If there is thunder in our bursts of
cheers.
We want their joy to echo down the
years;
The endless speeches, fetes and weary
drives
Are moments we will treasure all our
lives;
Although there are great odds to our
devotion,
Love surges like a spirited Blue Ocean.
Forgive us, with a smile in our direction,
And we will know you cherish our affec-
tion.
VICTORIA.
PETER BLADEN.


Guyana to visit the Soviet Union in Sep-
tember or October of * this year, to study
the development of Soviet industry, and
agriculture. He added that the Soviet
organisations were ready to meet the
travelling and other expenses of the
visiting delegates in Soviet territory.”
This prospect may have appealed to
some of the delegates from the little and
Not-Red Riding Hoods at the conference.
The report doesn’t say. But Menshikov
had not shown his full hand. He went on
talk about trading “on a basis of equality
and mutual benefit,” and long-term con-
tracts for the purchase of commodities
in exchange for Soviet goods. He said
his country was willing to, assist these
countries with capital equipment and
machinery on credit, and to offer techni-
cal assistance “under the U.N. technical-
assistance programme for which the
Soviet Union had contributed four mil-
lion roubles.” Then came some more
explicit baits, alj the more sinister when
the current Asian view of U.S. influences
on world markets is appreciated. The
Soviet Union, he said, was willing to con-
sider concrete requests concerning differ-
ent fields of technical assistance for indus-
tries, agricultural machinery, and, in
particular, the development of textiles
and food industries, rubber-processing,
building of hydro- and thermo-power
stations, flood-control, irrigation, and
assistance for training personnel for in-
dustries and other branches of the
economy.
There was a little more. Menshikov
explained that these measures could be
implemented “either by sending, Soviet
experts through U.N. agencies to advise
on the spot, or by giving specialists from
various countries training at Soviet
institutions.”
That is today’s bedtime story, presented
quietly in this period of “calm” as we
await with much more immediate concern
the outcome of moves on Korea and the
results of the pressures in Indo-China.
Yet its nightmare effects could be greater
and more lasting, although longer delayed,
than an early appearance of Red Chinese
troops in Laos, or some Communist coup
elsewhere among our near-northern
neighbors.
"The Bulletin" Trophy
The annual shoot among the public
schools of N. S. Wales for The
Bulletin trophy has concluded, and
Lieutenant - General Woodward, of
Eastern Command, reports that it “con-
tinues to produce keen competitive spirit
between school-cadet units and has pro-
vided a great incentive to the improve-
ment of the standard of rifle-shooting
within the Cadet Corps.”
For the second year in succession it
was won by The Armidale School, with
719 points out of 750, Casino High School
second with 693 and St. John’s, Wood-
lawn, near Lismore, which in the early
days of the competition seemed as if it
had acquired a monopoly of the first
place, led the King’s School, Parramatta,
for third by 681 to 663. Then came
North Sydney High (662), Knox (646),
St. Joseph’s (Sydney) (633), All Saints’
(Bathurst) (625), Yass Intermediate High
School (623), Shore and Homebush Boys’
High (606), Barker (604) and' the Marist
Brothers, Parramatta (602). Eighteen
schools managed to score over 500-600.
There were nine in the 400-500 range,
and eight below that.
The shooting of many schools of
reputation is at a poor standard, and
there are few even of the best which
are within reach of the possible.
Yet the next war will scarcely be won
in its final stages by the atom-bomb
despite the conviction of many oyer-
imaginative people that it will.
POLITICAL POINTS
Federal pollingrday has been fixed for
May 29, a week later than had been
expected. It’s wonderful what a differ-
ence seven days can make. Of the earlier
date deputy Opposition-leader Calwell
had accused the Government of cashing-
in on the Royal tour; of the new one
Doc. Evatt says that “finding the pros-
pects of holding on to office have
receded,” Menzies and Fadden have
“fixed the latest date permissible under
the Constitution.”
Evatt is wrong on that point. The
Constitution provides that “Every House
of Representatives shall continue for
three years from the first meeting of the
House, and no longer, but may be sooner
dissolved by the Governor-General.”
The first meeting of the Twentieth Parlia-
ment was held on June 12, 1951
• •
“S.'M. Herald’s” special reporter
watched the Royal progress through
Melbourne; so did the “Daily Telegraph”
man. To the “Herald” bloke the crowd
was the “Best Behaved in Memory of
Melbourne Police,” but the “Telly”
scribe found himself reporting “Mob Out
of Control: Queen’s Arrival Marred.”
P’raps they were talking about different
crowds.
• •
Appointment of C. V. Kellway, at pre-
sent Australian Minister to Italy, as
Minister to Brazil has raised speculation
whether Paul McGuire, whose appoint-
ment as Ambassador to the Distressful
Country misfired, will succeed him in
Rome. It also prompts the comment that
there seems to be as little justification for
a high-level Australian representative in
Rio de Janeiro as there is for one in
Dublin.
• •
With the first anniversary of the death
of Stalin due this week it will be interest-
ing to see what form the commemoration
ceremonies take. Despite Malenkov’s
announcement a year ago that the Soviet
would continue to “glorify the name of
Stalin,” Uncle Joe gets very little men-
tion in Communist official circles these
days. His birthday (December 21) was
ignored by the Moscow papers and the
city of Stalinsk, beyond the Urals, has
been given back its original name, Novo-
Kuznetsk.
• •
Without waiting to see if it is loaded
with water or beer, Doc. Evatt has jumped
on to the bandwagon of six-o’clock
closing. He claims to be speaking as a
citizen of New South Wales, but as a
would : be “Labor” Prime Minister his
advocacy is going to be a little embarras-
sing to the “Labor” Premiers of Queens-
land (where the hotels are open till 10
p.m.), Westralia (9 p.m.), and Tasmania
(10 p.m.).
• •
It’s been a perplexing week for Middle-
East Presidents. Neguib in Egypt and
Adib Shishekli in Syria became ex-
Presidents on the same day.
Neguib was back again within two
days, explaining that the whole business
had been a family quarrel, but Adib’s
supplanters seem to be playing for keeps.
He is reported to be seeking refuge in
Saudi Arabia.
• •
Last year when large portions of Hol-
land were inundated by high tides the
Australian Red Cross sent assistance in
the form of money, clothing and blankets.
Last week the A.R.C. received a cable
from the Dutch Red Cross extending
sympathy to the victims of the East Coast
floods and asking what practical form of
help they could send.
• • -
“’Berra”: The name of “Mawson”
has fittingly been given to the permanent
Australian Antarctic station; the Aus-
tralian flag has been hoisted and men and
equipment are stoutly fighting the hazards
and rigors of the area. It is reassuring
news that at least one aircraft has been
repaired after storms had damaged both,
and advices of the scientific researches
during the next few years will be awaited
with interest. In the meantime, a lot of
people are wondering when America is to
be asked to revise its opposition
tralian and all other claims to sovereignty
in these strategic, minerally rich, and
“stark and sullen solitudes.”
• •
Commonsense has prevailed and there
will be no three-cornered contests for
Government-held seats in N. S. Wales
at the Federal election. The Libs, have
withdrawn their candidate from the field
in Lawson, held by Country-party mem-
ber L. J. Fades and wdl not oppose C.
G. Anderson in his attempt to win back
Hume from Arthur Fuller. Hume has a.
habit of swinging, and it’s Anderson’s
turn to win.
In Victoria, the wrangle still goes on,
with the Country-party likely to oppose
three sitting Liberals.
• •
According to the latest figures pub-
lished b } the Commonwealth Statistician
taxation per head of population was
£6 5s 4d. lower in 1952-53 than in the
previous year. Commonwealth collec-
tions were down by £7 Os. Id. and
State collections were 14s. 9d. higher.
The figures include all taxation, not
merely direct. Customs and sales-tax
reductions accounted for most of the
drop.
• - •
W. K. Charlton, Clerk of the Parlia-
ments in N. S. Wales since 1939, retires
on March 10. He wdl be succeeded by
A BLOT ON EVERY PAGE
Brigadier J. R. Stevenson, at present ClerK.
Assistant and a former Usher ot the
Black Rod.
• •
Reactions of “Labor” leaders to the
Arbitration Court’s postponement of the
ins case reveal " ver r y one-sided Got-
, arbitration . j. D , Kenny, of the
N. S. Wales Labor Council, says that
“the confidence of the union movement,
which has been traditionally and consist-
ently loyal to arbitration, has been
shaken.” The truth is that the union
movement has been traditionally and
consistently loyal to arbitration only when
decisions have gone its way; its confi-
dence has almost invariably been
“shaken” by adverse decisions,
Df L loyd Ross of the A.R.U., says:
„ No group within the trade-union move-
ment will accept the decision.” Why not?
The essence -of arbitration is the under-
standing that both sides will accept the
; ; B o£ £he court Union leaders
doj their members better
(h advised to give
deaslon “
affairs as ,he J do ‘ n spor f „.
Lloyd Ross also said the court s atti-
tude intensifies the problem of every anti-
Communist official.” Many union pro-
blems are intensified by the fact that
many anti-Communist officials are former
Communist officials and that they some-
times find it hard to remember they have
changed their guernseys,
0 m
Egypt’s Revolutionary Council, in its
statement after the weekend somersault,
said; “A convoy with President Neguib
in the van is on the march again.”
Twenty-four hours earlier it looked as if
Neguib was in the cart.
The Melbourne Catholic “Labor”
paper, “News Weekly,” has attacked
Calwell on the grounds that he is trying
to commit the A.L.P. to a racial policy
by arguments which are “shot through
and through with hatred for the Japanese
because they are Japanese.” It accuses
Calwell of acting in a way that is “anti-
Christian, and anti-Australian, and anti-
Labor.” It is hard to say which of the
three antis would annoy Arthur most.
• •
Frankie Forde is “Labor’s” Queens-
land organiser for the Federal election.
In 1946 he organised himself out of
Capricornia, but apparently the party
isn’t superstitious.
• •
“In the ACT”: Another Socialist
Government has fallen down on its pro-
mises, and as a result Australian tax-
payers will be saddled with more expense
on the aluminium project launched with
glittering promises by Chifiey, Evatt and
Co. more years ago than the Aluminium
Production Commission cares to recall in
its report just issued for 1952-53. The
commission is concerned at the rationing
of hydroelectric power and at the excess
of demand over known capacity “for
some time to come,” as well as at the
slow construction of the Trevallyn
Development. It wants assurances for
continuous power on scheduled dates,
with the priority “contemplated in the
agreement between the two Governments.”
However, it is reconciled to the fact that
it won’t be able to get the power for the
ingot-production planned to begin late
this year, and that it is therefore imprac-
ticable to proceed with plant-construc-
tion to produce alumina by June and
ingots six months later. “With regret,
the commission is obliged to extend‘its
construction programme by six months,
and trusts that special efforts will be made
by the Tasmanian Government and the
Hydroelectric Commission to ensure
availability of power for alumina-manu-
facture in January, 1955, followed by
metal-production the following June.”
That goes for everyone!
• •
This is the sort of thing which should
not be made public for fear of our own
politicians getting ideas, but the Cana-
dian House of Commons has just agreed
to grant Cabinet Ministers a rise in salary.
The Prime Minister gets an extra 10,000
dollars and his colleagues another 5000
dollars each.
• •
Tatt.’s employees in Hobart have
decided not to go on with their intended
appeal to, the High Court against the
Tasmanian Supreme Court’s verdict in
the transfer case. This is the go-ahead
signal for Tatt.’s to open up in Melbourne
under the auspices of the Cain Govern-
ment. About 100 of the Hobart staff are
crossing Bass Strait with the marbles,
and the first Cain sweep should be ready
for drawing by August.
• •
Cosgrove is over in New Zealand again
fighting hard to sign up the Maoriland
“investors” for the “new” Tasmanian
Tatt.’s.
• . •
Cahill doesn’t seem to have welcomed
the Doc.’s unsolicited testimonial to the
six-o’clock closing. His comment is that
the Maxwell report is the responsibility
of the N. S. Wales Government. So is
compulsory unionism, but, as the Doc. is
well aware, he’ll have to carry some of
the burden of that.
Reform is in the public-service air.
Harassed citizens who have struggled with
long forms in triplicate, wondering why
most of the information is needed, will
be pleased to know that the Public Ser-
vice Board is on their side. It admits
that
one of the major (and often valid) points
of criticism by the public of the public
service is the number and complexity ot
forms used....lt has been found neces-
sary to draw attention to possible elimina-
tions, amalgamations and contractions ot
forms, to the need for redesign to facilitate
proper machine use, to suggest improve-
ments to expedite sorting, posting or other
handling Unnecessary use of forms or
the use of unsuitable forms results in
increased costs both for the public service
and the community.
They’re informing us! »


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
HTHIS being Sovereign of the British
* nation is obviously a full-time
job ; so how much better an idea of the
Australian way-of-life would be gained
by the Queen, and how much truer to
their often-declaimed beliefs would our
leaders be, if they should, each weekend,
come out with the advice: “Your Majesty,
in this country there is a five-day week of
forty-hours. It is now 5 p.m. on Friday.
Please report back here at nine on Mon-
day morning.”—“Benbow.”
“Balwyn”: Melbourne’s Exhibition
Building, setting for the Royal Ball on
March 2, is both a colossus and a curi-
osity. Built for the 1880 Exhibition by
David Mitchell, Melba’s father, it has
been considered the city’s No. 1 fire risk
ever since; it came nearest destruction
last year, when the adjoining Aquarium
was burnt down. It has been used as
concert-hall, stadium, picture-theatre, art-
.gallery, public-examination-centre, emerg-
ency hospital and ballroom. First session
of Federal Parliament was opened there
"I just back in and park as long as I like.”
ty the Duke of York in 1901. Perhaps its
strangest function ivas to house the
National Baby Show in 1889, when police
had to protect the mother of the victori-
ous infant from the anger of fond
parents of less successful kids. The
venerable edifice, whose dome is a land-
mark visible for miles, is now gaily
painted and illuminated in her Majesty’s
honor.
“Kelms”: Perth’s “West Australian”
started a wave of arguments when it
pictured the Queen and Prime Minister
Menzies arriving at the State Ball in
Canberra. The Queen’s sash was shown
over her right shoulder, and the P.M.
was walking on the Queen’s right, wearing
his medals on his right breast. All wrong,
of course, but even those who knew it
were loth to argue against a photo, while
those who didn’t know were willing to
bet on both Queen and P.M. knowing
the correct procedure. Yet all that had
happened was that the picture had been
printed from the wrong side of the nega-
tive.
• t • • f? :•
“Mugga Way”: There isn’t much sym-
pathy in Canberra for those
owners and shopkeepers who laid in large'
stocks of perishables for the hordes of
Royal-visit visitors. Old Canberra hands
are so used to the unavailability of supper
after the pictures, or good meals in cafes
at any time, that they didn’t bother to
see if such facilities were available, and
most visitors had been so well warned
that they brought their food with them.
But one section of the population had a
windfall. The vast number of V.l.P.’s scat-
tered around Canberra’s hotels and board-
ing-houses, along with the 183 members
of Parliament and their wives, made such
demands on official transport (no buses
for them!) that the least any transport-
driver will receive for the five days is
estimated by local computers at £lOO.
Some will have made'a lot more in cumu-
lative overtime. They’re still making up
lost sleep.
“X.S,”: An alarmed mother has
reported to “Sun-Pix” that two children
she knows propose tp cash-in on the
Royal. Progress by getting themselves
lost. Having got lost at the Show they
have pleasant memories of being taken
to the creche and being given comics to
read, soft-drink and biscuits. The agitated
mother suggests that the police serve
only bread-and-water.
• • • • w' •
“Roirp”: People stood around like
sheep, staring up at the team of men
affixing the 7ft.-high replica of the pearl-
studded Crown of State on the giant log-
arch spanning Sydney’s Macquarie-street,
but to the men dangling about the crown
on ropes from the giant mobile crane we
must have looked like swine. That, any-
way, would explain their casting of
pearls. May have been accidental, of
course, but every now and then down
would come a giant pearl and, surprisingly,
they bounced all over the road —ping-
pong balls.
“Peter R.” The crowd of factory-girls
had run out of breath for cheering and
booing, and were poking fun at the poli-
ticians, etc., at the tail-end of the proces-
sion. On© of the last cars held two
gorgeously-uniformed staff-officers. They
looked pained when one young lady, who
looked like a forewoman in a boiler-,
factory, gave them a shrill wolf-whistle;
but they were definitely not amused
when another brawny lass shouted,
“Chockoes!”
% ♦> ❖
“Ceg”: A seamark of the past 28 years
off Victoria’s Port Phillip Heads is up
for sale at Williamstown —the Akuna, of
the Port Phillip Sea Pilots, replaced by
the fine modern Wyuna. Built in
Germany in 1911 as a German naval
yacht, Akuna was christened Komet and
“Supper is served."
allotted to the Governor of German
New Guinea. Captured by the R.A.N.
in War I, she was then commissioned as
a patrol-vessel under the name Una;
she was bought by the Phillip pilots in
1925. Since then, with her companion-
ship Victoria, she has given excellent
service. Pilots are reluctantly parting
with this beautiful little ship, A legend
popular amongst visitors to Queenscliff
is that she was once the Kaiser’s yacht;
it’s without foundation. I expect she
will follow so many others to the China
coast and Chinese owners.
♦>
“Macnell”: In naval and civil life
I’ve never met a cleaner bunch of men
collectively, physically, than sailors.
, Dusty was the exception. None
on the mess-deck had seen him
bathe; which, in the confines of
a ship, meant he didn’t. His
talons of fingers, with Fu
Manchu nails reaching out for
bread of butter, were enough
to trouble even a salted stomach.
Yet Dusty was, apart from a
hatred of water, a fine messmate.
Which is why he was tolerated,,
and why, on that memorable
occasion when he was seen
stripped at his kit-locker after
a dirty paint-ship, towel over
shoulder, the word flashed
round. We gathered at the head
of the bathroom-ladder—talk
about a Royal Progress! The
bugler sounded the “Still” as
Dusty set foot on the top rung,
the bosun’s-mate piped shrilly,
and Dusty descended in a flood
of cheers to the astonished bath-
room. But he saw us all off.
He cleaned his teeth by rubbing
them with his water-wet finger,
reshouldered his towel, padded
up the ladder and, with a look
of mild surprise at the gaping
mob, strolled to the messdeck
on bare feet and climbed into
his go-ashore clobber. We saw
him that night with a popsy
in George-street.
“Teeperce”: Pity those lighter inter-
ludes in Gavin Long’s Greece, Crete and
Syria hadn’t included one of March, ’4l,
when in the “Benghazi Handicap” the 9th
Divvy was making good speed Tobruk-
wards. An A.A.S.G. detail paused to
capture an Italian vehicle and a swag of
prisoners, but, with Rommel's flanking
columns seeming to be gaining, the
prisoners were abandoned when their
vehicle broke down. Their late captors,
at bivouac that evening, were startled to
see a dust-cloud which made it look as if
the German armor had made superman
speed across the desert. To the general
relief there emerged not a Jerry flying-
column, but the abandoned prisoners.
Somehow they’d got their truck going and
caught up with their erstwhile jailers,
whom they hailed with all the camaraderie
of long-separated comrades-in-arms,
riding on with them to Tobruk.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“P.0.M.C.”: When I went to school
our English master taught us to roughly
differentiate the common usage between
“that” and “which” before a defining-
clause (B. 17/2/’54) by placing “that”
before animate and “which” before inani-
mate things. Under this system “Arno’s”
example would go: “This is the dog that
worried the cat that killed the rat which
ate the malt which lay in the house that
Jack built.” I know of no recognised
authority for this, but such are some of
the rules impressed upon childhood
(mostly with a freely-wielded cane) that,
rightly or wrongly, I have obeyed my
schoolie’s dictum all my life.
*** • ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Ceg”: Our streets mightn’t be paved
with gold, but there’s still quite a lot of
money to be picked up in them. One
Melbourne S.M. had a busy and profit-
able time in his court the other day when
he dealt with 345 traffic offences in two
hours. AH were for incorrect right-hand
turns, and all were charged by the one
constable of the mobile traffic-branch.
All were convicted and socked two-quid
each. When money can be picked up so
easily, one wonders why the Premier has
such trouble with his Budget.
*l* ♦> $
“A. Moral”: Twas at an Allied drome
in Hollandia in 1945. When ferry air-
craft touched-down, feminine transit
personnel, having strolled to a certain
signposted premises, would be seen, a
very few moments later, registering con-
fusion or rage as they emerged again at
speed. 1 , Cause, it transpired, was a melliflu-
ous Texan drawl politely requesting:
“Excuse me a minute, please, ma’am! I
have a spot of painting to do” —leading
to the on-the-spot breaking of the US.
sergeant who had rigged an amplifier
system between his control-tower and the
ladies’ retiring-room.
❖ ❖
“C”: That sign in a Sydney lishshop
window (B. 17/2/’54) took me back in
one jump to War I Heliopolis. The
street leading to the camp was lined
with a string of shops and cafds, con-
ducted by Gyppos and assorted Levan-
tines, all flat-out to cash-in on the
Aussies’ six-bob a day. One place had
this sign blazoned across its front: “Who
lifes if England die —eggs and ham,
piastres 10.” The letters “S” and “N
were printed the wrong way round, and
at each end of the announcement were
Union Jacks painted upside-down. For
all that, the ham-and-eggs, the honey
from Crete and the Salonika beer were
good-oh.
THE ROYAL FIREWORKS
With lovely face and fiery tail
Swift unaffrighting comets hail
The joyful coming of the Queen.
Look, shattered rubies, globes of green,
Meteor-streaks, the varied sheen
Of bright cadenzas, dazzling falls.
Waves of light breaking, coronals,
Hailstorms, sunwheels, opening flowers,
Trumpets of joy that speak gold showers.
And instantaneous tall towers —
Twice given ; for in air they reign.
And water renders them again :
There flashing watersnakes appear,
Anemones burn soft and clear,
Their luminous medusardomes
Trail tentacles of light, quick combs
Of coral radiance flare and die.
Galactic fire in either sky,
Of shoals and stars! and constellations
Of phosphorescent contemplations
Within that third and more inclusive
Sky of mind, where thought’s elusive
Spangles drift, or rise elate,
And sudden pleasures coruscate. ,
The heart is born to celebrate:
May heaven find earth keep wonted state
With thronging splendors, festivals.
Till a concluding darkness falls.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


T'vETAILS given me by the director of
a company manufacturing sponge-
rubber goods were rather eye-opening—
not that my eye had not detected a cer-
tain pointed similarity in the physical
development of the many young girls
who grace the city streets and offices in
tight sweaters, but I had been giving
Nature far too much credit. The com-
pany-director boasted that he had sold
a quarter-million pairs in two years—and
“They reckon we need more population. I'm askin' you—can y' tell me
how we can pack the coots in?"
his company is not without competition,
Cad that I am, and to deflate their female
ego, I passed this information on to my
wife and three of her friends whilst they
were discussing fashions and figures. One
lass accused me of gross exaggeration,
“I don’t know of a single person who
wears them,” she said, defending her sex.
“I wear them,” said one of the group,
turning traitor. “And I also,” said the
last of the four. Two out of four! Could
this be an aftermath of the war? I seem
to recall Russia demanding a second
front.—“Willpar.”
“Chevroford”: Melbourne opened its
first drive-in bank the other day, to be
promptly followed by Australia’s first
drive-in cinema. The forthcoming erec-
tion qf the first drive-in church has been
darkly hinted at in an eastern suburb —
following, no doubt, the precedent of the
Vandals, who stabled their horses in
Christian churches.
•. • • • • ' m
“Cauboy”: At Australia’s first drive-
in theatre in Melbourne patrons, sat in
their cars and viewed Everest being con-
quered on a huge 50ft.-by-34ft. screen
which seemed standard size when viewed
through the windscreen. Each car pulls
up beside a post on which hangs a small
loudspeaker, which can be attached to a
window or the steering-column and con-
trolled by the customer. The illusion
is created that the sound is actually com-
ing from the screen —but what creates the
illusion? Technicians couldn’t do it.
It could only be a trick played on us by
our perceptions. The listener sees the
lips of an actor move and hears the words
he utters, and by a psychological adjust-
ment of which he is quite unconscious he
associates the sound with the movement
he perceives.
* *t* ❖
“Muskeen”: Scrounging in the Army
(B. 17/2/’54). In War I in France I
fraternised with a member of the U.S.
77th Division, who informed me that the
A.I.F. had thft reputation of being
shark troops. It hit my conscience— till I
realised the word he meant,
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Salvador Dali is making a sur-
realist film about a woman who falls in
love with a wheelbarrow. Nobody has
defined what surrealism really is, but
in Salvador’s film a paranoic woman
dreams of her loved one in the shape of
this humble means of transport, which is
eventually reincarnated as the man she
loves. Freud would have called it fetish-
ism, but Dali isn’t bothered much about
that aspect of it, judging by his recent
novel —he writes anything that comes into
his head. He made his first hit in Lon-
don by delivering a lecture in a diver’s
helmet. Something went wrong, and he
was nearly asphyxiated before his wife
unscrewed the helmet. The critics there-
after saw all sorts of meanings in his
pictures, although he probably wasn’t
doing anything different from the young
Bohemian artists who used to walk
around Paris with five snakes in their
pockets.
♦+♦ ♦> ❖
“Bo”: A cheerful young ex-Digger,
he shuffled up the ward on crutches, and
with a grin and a head-nod* hailed my
cobber, beside whose bed I was sitting,
I got the details. He was in to get the
stump of the leg he’d had amputated
below the knee trimmed-up. No, it was
no Nip shell —a few months before, the
motor-bike on which he’d been riding
pillion had skidded, finishing wrecked
against a telegraph-pole. The young
bloke, I learned, confidently declared that
his disability wouldn t make the slightest
difference to either pursuing his career
or his indulgence in sport. By the cut
of him, that was the attitude I’d have
expected; but when my cobber said
that the first thing the ex-Dig. had done
when he got out of hospital after having
had the leg off was to go for a spin on the
back of another mate’s motorbike my
face must have registered my puzzlement,
My cobber read my dial correctly.
“You’re wrong,” be said. “He’ll never
get on a bike again now—he told me.
But he got on then —he made himself
get on—to see if his nerve had gone.” It
hadn’t.
* ♦> ❖
“J.J.A.”: Mention of the nurses sing-
ing a feelthy Wog song (B. 10/2/’54)
brings it back. Soldiers in the first stoush
taught a French cafe proprietor’s
“Come and get it!"
daughter one of the worst songs Diggers
ever composed. Without knowing a word
of the meaning she would sing it, to-
gether with French songs, for the enter-
tainment of the Diggers. One, nark
translated it for her, and that night when
they asked her to sing she was in a
wicked mood. As most of them knew no
French it was over their heads, but they
knew by the tone of her voice, and her
eyes, that they were at the receiving-end
of something pretty awful, particularly
as she repeatedly used the only Australian
word she knew ; no, it wasn’t that on© —
it was blackguard.
♦> •$> ❖
“Lord Luvus”: Some magazines in
the waiting-room of a New Australian
dentist were printed in two European
languages which I hadn’t spoken for 30
years, and which I never did know very
well, yet I found myself reading them
with the greatest ease. I was congratulat-
ing myself on my linguistic prowess when
I realised that I was reading the same old
bull about international affairs I had
read a couple of days previously in my
Melbourne daily. There were the same
meaningless, pompous generalisations,
the same pious hopes and aspirations and
the same high-sounding moral cliches,
the only difference being that the proper-
names were not the same ones.
»> ♦♦♦
“Pat”: Australian ways that New
Australians don’t understand! One N.A.
I know handed round half-a-dozen bottles
of cognac (the real McCoy, bottled in
France) to businessmen who had been
helpful during the past year. A few days
back he ran into one of them, who
slapped him on the back and expressed his
unbounded liking for said cognac. “We
never drink anything but beer as a rule,”
he confessed, “but there was one stinking
hot Sunday when we had nothing else in
the house. So my wife got the idea to
mix this brandy up with some pineapple-
juice and ginger-ale and it made a wizard
drink. We had a jugful. Can’t beat the
women for ideas, can you?” The N.A.
told me he would like to.
■£♦ **♦ ❖
“W.P.T.”: A manufacturing firm
which bought Firholme, at Parramatta,
built by John Macarthur as a home for
the French nobleman Huon de Kerillion
(who was to act as tutor to Macarthur’s
children), is giving the historic building to
Parramatta City Council. Said to be
the second-oldest building still standing
in Australia (Elizabeth Farm House, on
the hill near by, being older), it has along-
side the oldest school-building in Aus-
tralia —used as a schoolroom by Huon
de Kerillion. Here is a splendid oppor-
tunity for Parramatta Council to make
Firholme into an historical museum. Few
other places in Australia hold as much
history as Parramatta, and its people
would probably gladly give up their relics
to display them in such a local institu-
tion. In the grounds of Firholme are to
be seen the first cork-trees grown in
Australia, as well as an oak-tree planted
to celebrate the news of Waterloo.
♦> ❖
“Archaen”; Queer how old sayings
get distorted in time. “Brand-new,” for
instance. The original was “bran-new,”
meaning as new as the bran which ran
down one of the spouts in a flourmill
from the wheat ground a second or two
previously. Another is “Setting the
Thames on fire.” Some 200 years ago it
was “Setting the terns on fire.” The
“terns” was a fine sieve used for sifting
flour, and anyone who used it in a lazy
way ran no risk of setting it on fire
through friction of the flour as it was
shaken. “Not worth a tinker’s damn”
is the modern version, but originally there
was no “n” on the last word ; it referred
to the clay mould, or dam, used by the
old-time tinker when running a patch on
a vessel of block-tin. It was made on the
spot from any sort of clay and could be
used only once.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: In the big city hospitals,
where we get young Australia off the
production-lines, life gets a bit hectic at
times. One night, when I was in a race
with the stork —he was so near, I could
hear his wings flapping —I remembered I
had not taken the patient’s particulars ;
not to do so was a great sin of omission.
To my query, “Which babe will this one
be?” the mother stated it would be her
third. “Yes,” I said, “and date of mar-
riage?” “Marriage!” scoffed she. “I’m
not married, but I’m engaged.”
“L.S.W.”: Holidaying in England,
tired of putting-up .at Y.M.C.A.s, I
located a little cottage for bed and break-
fast, An ascetic elderly lady made my
stay very comfortable. Two years later I
was there again, but could not remember
the lady’s name. As I recalled, it was
either Foote or Boote. With the situation
becoming embarrassing, I made a stab at
it and ended a general remark with a
polite “M,iss Foote.” “The name is
Trotter,” was the acid reply.
STUNG ONCE
“Widow, 39, affectionate nature, fond of
housie, would meet refined gent., means, who
doesn’t play golf,” —View Mat. ad.
Scorning the aids of naivete and
discretion.
She boldly nails her colors to the mast.
About her age she’ll stoop to no
suppression ;
The light of candor on it she has cast.
She’s under forty still, albeit barely
(The rag-ad. nineteen - and - eleven
touch !)
A woman, she, whom you would strike
but rarely:
Willing to look at stark facts pretty
squarely- —
And that is much.
A trait to go along with, that affection
She’s eager to bestow upon some gent. —
A well-lined one for pref.—who’ll give
protection
To her, as well as clothes and nourish-
ment.
Her pastime? THAT’S austere enough,
by heaven I
Big wins on pooch or moke she doesn’t
hunt.
Only on cards that carry Legs eleven,"
“Top of the Wazir" “Kelly’s Eye," a
seven,
SHE likes to punt.
Her taste in men, as with her bets, is
modest.
He may be long and skinny like a bean,
Sawn-off and pear-shaped, with a dial the
oddest,
Wear an expression like a rural Dean.
Or he may earn a crust as politician,
A plumber, or the owner of some pubs.
But whosoe’er he be, there’s one condition
She stipulates: An outright prohibition
On golfing clubs.
It seems significant she makes no mention
Of other sports: from spearing fish, or
bowls.
From even ping-pong there is no
abstention
Demanded by her. But, for eighteen
holes —
THAT’S a disease she finds most irritating.
Perhaps her First, a fiendish specimen.
Of thirty-footers sunk would keep
relating ;
His bunker-theories endlessly be stating;
Who’d carpet-putt for hours’, deliberating ;
Worse still, his hooks and slices illus-
trating —
Who’d blame her, then?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Changing from Rome to Brazil, as Aus-
tralian Minister thereto, Cedric Vernon
Kellway takes address-changing in his
stride. Fifteen years back he was an
Australian rep. on the delegation to dis-
cuss the Empire Training Scheme in
Ottawa; earlier with the Federal
Treasury, he became, soon after War II
started, finance member on the Air
Board, and thereafter was mostly in
America, for the greater part of the war
handling the procurement of war-
supplies from Uncle Sam. The first Aus-
tralian Consul-General appointed (New
York, 1945), he’s been in Rome for the
past five years. In Brazil he succeeds
Peter Heydon (now High Commission-
ing in New Zealand), a barrister who was
in Moscow in the middle of War 11, Lega-
tion secretary, and was earlier private
secretary to, in turn, George Pearce,
R. G. Menzies and Bruce.
• •
Ernest Mills, of Longford (Vic.), who
owns a private Auster aircraft, got a
ringside view of the Royal Progress at
Melbourne. Landing his plane in a pad-
dock, he got a good view of the Queen
on one side, then, as soon as the Royal
car passed, took off and hedge-hopped
into another paddock, he got a
close-up of the Duke.
• •
Sighted by Such sweating at an un-air-
conditioned Press do on one of Sydney’s
hottest days, Canadian C. F. Terrell,
Pacific and Far Eastern rep. of the Cole-
man Lamp and Stove Co., of Toronto,
one of the world’s big suppliers of central-
heating and air-conditioning equipment.
Terrell’s concern produced the G.I. mili-
tary Stove (regular equipment for Uncle
IN FROM INDIES
Sam’s soldiers in War II and Korea); he’s
in Australia to interest industry, with
backing of Trade and Customs, in a
potential £l2 million scheme to produce
his firm’s equipment here. Come to
Sydney from India, Indonesia, Malaya,
Siam, Japan and the Philippines, the
visitor is due for a month in these parts
before returning to Canada, via Singapore.
• •
Crossed the bar at Haslar (Eng.),
Admiral Sir Ragnar Colvin, head of the
R.A.N. for the first two years of War 11.
He had the look of a Viking —Ragnar ok,
in Scandinavian mythology, is the Twi-
light of the Gods —and certainly had
enough of fighting to drink mead from a
skull. Of a distinguished Indian civil-
service family, he was the lone seawolf —
three out of four brothers were knighted
—and was executive-officer of battleship
Revenge at Jutland. After the war, captain
of cruiser Caradoc, he was in the Black
Sea during the 1919 operations against
the Bolsheviks. In 1930 he was made
rear-admiral and C. 0.5., Atlantic Fleet-
in those days comprised of Nelson,
Rodney, four Iron Duke-class battleships,
Hood, Renown, Repulse and a flood of
smaller fry, now, also, mostly gone to
their Valhalla. Before he came to Aus-
tralia in 1937, he’d had the 2nd Battle
Squadron, and command .of the R.N.
War College. A fine organiser and sound
judge of men, he was one of the most
useful and constructive heads the R.A.N.
ever had. His era will be remembered as
that in which Australians first captained
their own ships and proved themselves
in battle. He was 71.
Dr. R. H. Clark, lecturer on geology
at Edinburgh University, moves to the
Chair of Geology at Victoria University,
Wellington (N.Z.), replacing Professor
C. A. Cotton, retiring after 33 years. A
native Enzedder, Clark was for a time
at the University of California, where he
was under a fellow-coutnryman. Pro-
fessor F. J. Turner, who is head-serang
in that institution’s geological department.
• •
Alec Chisholm farewells three natural-
ists :
Natural history in Australia has lost of late a
batch of eminent old-timers —S. A. White in
South Australia, H. A. Longman in Queens-
land and H. M. Whittell" in Western Australia.
White, passed on at 83, was born into bird-
study. His father, Samuel, who reached S.A-
from England as a lad of seven (in 1842), had
practically abandoned cattle in favor of birds
when his father died in 1860, and had ventured
on hazardous journeys into the interior and
about northern islands over 20 years. Young
White was 10 when his father passed on, but
a few years later he, too, undertook expeditions
in search of birds. After service in the South
African War (captain), White did some bird-
collecting in East Africa, and subsequently
divided his time between pastoral activity,
service as S.A, Chief Commissioner of Boy
Scouts and ornithological research. The journal
of Australia’s Ornithologists’ Union (of which
he was once president) carries lots of his
records.
Heber Longman, passed on in Brisbane at
73, was one of Australia’s best allrounders in
natural history. English-born, the son of an
Anglican parson, after a spell at journalism he
joined the Queensland Museum, rose to become
director, and served as president of various
scientific and nature societies. Although inter-
ested in plants, birds, beasts, fish, frogs, spiddfs
and insects —he was able and willing to yarn
or write about any of them —Longman’s
specialities were, firstly, snakes and lizards, and,
secondly, the fossil remains of creatures that
frolicked here millions of years ago. Snakes
to him were quite brotherly fellows, and he
located (with a satisfaction that wasn’t widely
shared) 17 kinds within the Brisbane metropoli-
tan area. As for fossils, he spent many months
piecing together the jigsaw-puzzle constituted
by hundreds of fragments of bones, finally
achieving virtually complete skeletons of weird
creatures of the long-ago. One of these, a
kind of enlarged edition of the koala, with
huge cheek-pouches, and christened by Long-
man Euryzygoma dunense, was especially
notable. It was work of this kind that earned
its author the F.L.S., the Mueller Medal and
the Australian Natural History Medal.
Hubert* Massey Whittell, 0.8. E., who died at
Bridgetown (W.A.), was a Londoner who, after
lengthy Army service in India, retired major
and became (from 1926) a Westralian farmer
and student of Australian birds. Acquiring a
good general knowledge of ornithology in
relatively brief time, Whittell took office in
various societies, including the presidency of
the Ornithologists’ Union; in 1948 he and
D. L. Serventy produced a valuable textbook,
The Birds of Western Australia (now in its
second edition). Then the ex-soldier turned
his attention to a bigger task, the assembling
of material for a book on The Literature of
Australian Birds. He had just completed this
work at the time of his death.
• '•
Rev. George Holland (ex-Liverpool,
shipping and insurance office), who be-
comes president of Queensland Metho-
dists, landed in the northern State in 1913,
and was at once posted ’way outback to
Cunnamulla. Since then he’s worked up
and down the coast from Townsville to
Gympie. Now based at Brisbane’s Ash-
grove circuit, he got a taste of his present
responsibilities through election as secre-
tary last year.
• •
Celebrating his 50th year as priest,
James Michael Liston, Archbishop of
Auckland, is a native-born Enzedder (73
years ago, at Dunedin). In 1893 he crossed
to Manly College, Sydney, then under
the rectorship of Michael Verdon, who
later became Bishop of Dunedin and
established Holy Cross College, at Mos-
giel, of which Liston was rector from 1910
to 1920. After four years at Manly the
future archbishop went to Dublin, and
for final polishing to Rome, to be tutored
under the rectorship of Dr. Kelly, later
Archbishop of Sydney. Liston was
appointed Bishop of Auckland in 1929.
The new Apostolic Delegate for Aus-
tralia brought out the “arch” to top
off the title a few months back.
• •
Richard St. Clair Johnson, appointed
lecturer in classics at the Westralian Uni-
versity, has crowded much travel and
academic experience into his 24 years.
Born in Singapore, he went to St. Ignatius
College, Sydney, where he won a public
exhibition which took him through
Sydney University, to an honors degree
in Latin and Greek. First teaching
experience as junior lecturer in classics at
Auckland University College was fol-
lowed by lecturing in Greek, while study-
ing theology at Melbourne University.
Since then, he’s done a course in teaching
methods at Sydney Teachers College and
University.
“Rann”: Medico Wally Matthews (B.
24/2/’54) was one of the zealots respon-
sible for re-establishing Rugby Union in
the N.S.W. Western District. As a com-
mitteeman, coach and referee he was,
with his co-medico Jock Rossell, the
backbone of R.U. in Orange for many
years. I experienced his coaching
methods in the first game I played for
him. Bending to do up my bootlace at
half-time, I felt a hefty kick on the
southern area of my tail. “ That’s where
you have to tackle in future, son,” was
his only comment. I served with him on
the R.U. committee later on and found
his method of overriding difficulties was
just as drastic as his coaching. Hardly
mentioned in the obituaries was the fact
that Wally was regarded by many as
one of the three best scrum-halfs to
represent Australia.
• •
Dropped in on Sydney on a world-tour
holiday, Sir John Stopford, Vice-Chancel-
lor of Manchester University, with Lady
Stopford. Professor of Anatomy, Sir
John is interested mainly in the neurologi-
cal aspects of that subject, but has little
time now for research —main duties are
organisation and the betterment of his
university. He is at present interested in
forming a health-clinic in Manchester,
run on the lines of a group private prac-
tice. Here students may gain experience
in how to run a general practice, with its
problems of business as well as of medi-
cine. Lady Stopford, an ophthalmic sur-
geon, no longer practises* but is a busy
magistrate.
. • •
“W.R.”: Charles Stonor, one of the
hopeful team now on the track of the
Abominable Snowman, and earlier in
the Administration of Papua and New
Guinea, is a naturalist in the true and
disappearing sense, having a knowledge
of and interest in flora and fauna not
restricted to any applied branch. While
stationed at Goroka, regional agricultural
officer, he climbed several peaks survey-
ing native agriculture and making the
most of the chance to botanise and bird-
watch. English scientific journals have
since published his notes on birds-of-
paradise.
• •
The medal of the Australian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy for 1953 goes
to Westralian mining man Frank F. Espie.
The award is for professional work on
Westralia’s eastern goldfields, and in
Burma, where he organised and led the
escape of raineworkers and their execu-
tives in 1942, after the Japanese struck.
• •
Having travelled continuously over the
world for the past nine years, Eelco
Wiebenga, Dutch-Austrian, cast up at
The Bulletin office. Bounced in,
bearded, booming, bedded his bulk down,
brushed his beard, slapped the arm of his
chair with beringed hand, broke into
French to his wife, broke into a Czech
folksong for artist Binder’s nostalgic
sake, bellowed with laughter in a neck-
dislocating fashion, shivering his bar-
relled chest and red-yellow*and-black
shirt, and complained that most reporters
asked him such imbecilities as did he eat
raw onions. We asked him did he.. He
did. Of the wandering Burl Ives species.
IN AND OUT
picking up folksongs and dances in
transit, he, with his French-Russian wife,
digs also into anthropology, ethnology
and archaeology; didn’t bother about
Alamein in North Africa, but was
enthralled with Carthage, or what’s left
of it. Boomed some more on his experi-
ences, shook a beefy hand and bounced
out, bound for Professor Elkin, or a
school lecture, or, for all we know,
Burma.
Medical mates call ’em the “Flynnic”
* fair en ough, seeing the six Flynn brother
(John Witton, second-eldest, hereunder)
could staff a hospital. All medicoes, all
in Sydney’s Macquarie-street (except
Frank, who left the profession and is now
parish priest in- Darwin), their father a
doctor, the Flynn family must be unique
in Australian medical history. Richard
Flynn is one of the few Australians to
have been on the staff of the famed
FLYNN OF THE FLYNNIC
Mayo Clinic in Rochester (U.S.); Jim
was -surgeon-commander in the War II
. R.A.N., in cruiser Australia at Dakar
■ and other trouble-spots ; Greg, A.1.F.,
Lae; Leo, consultant physician to the
R.A.A.F.; Frank, in between ministering
in Darwin, has saved a few Service eyes
up there; and John, of the Somme and
Ypres, 30th Battalion, twice wounded,
M.C.,. and War II group-captain,
R.A.A.F. Also latest president of
the N. S. Wales Medical Board, John has
taken skin for his speciality, and in 1952
was president of the Dermatological Asso-
ciation of Australia. He bowls.
• •
Perth airman Squadron-Leader David
Burgess-Lloyd is off to the U.K., on
exchange to the R.A.F. Navigation his
speciality, he will go to Coastal Com-
mand h.q. joining the R.A.A-F- in 1940,
he flew in the Middle East as a naviga-
tion-officer from’l94l to 1944, and spent
the rest of the war in Catalinas, mining
the coasts of China and Java. More
recently he flew a tour of operations over
Malaya ; as navigation-officer and bomb-
ing-leader for his squadron, he made
more than 50 strikes. Flying runs in the
family—his father flew kites against the
Kaiser.
• •
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, at 79, Ernest Alexander Stuart
Watt, a director and partner in, and son ot
the founder of, the shipping firm of Gilchrist
Watt and Sanderson. Other widely separated
interests took in, at various times, chairman-
ship of a New Guinea rubber-plantation,
partnership in a large Queensland cattle-station,
and admission to the Bar. A Cambridge man,
he was a generous patron of the-arts.
In London, at 80, Vernon Redwood,-colorful
old-time politician, one-time mayor of and
M.L.A. for Toowoomba (Q.). Originally a
Kidston man, Redwood, with James Blair
(afterwards Chief Justice of Queensland) and
three others, broke away in 1905 from the
ex-Labor Premier. They crashed in the elec-
tion of 1909, Blair alone surviving. During the
election campaign Redwood injured a leg, but
addressed his constituents while seated, ’his
heavily-bandaged limb extended to their gaze
on another chair. Another earlier charac-
teristic performance was riding a white horse
through the main streets of Toowoomba. After
his defeat, Redwood studied operatic singing
at the Milan Conservatorium, and, on graduat-
ing, staggered his friends by appearing on a
European bill as “Senor Vernon Brisbani.” He
had lived in London for close on 40 years.
In Perth, at 80, Adam Baird, company-
director and engineer. Born at Ballarat (Vic.),
he graduated in engineering from Melbourne
University and went to Westralia, engineer on
the goldfields, before going into business in
Coolgardie, Moving to Perth in 1906, he
built-up a big city department-store and
became director of several industrial firms. He
was a member of the council of Scotch College
(Perth) and of the Presbyterian Ladies
College.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 63, Sir Arthur
Donnelly, a leading-light in Maoriland busi-
ness, legal and sporting circles. Bachelor ot
Laws of Canterbury University College, he was
admitted to the Bar in 1911, and, in 1916, to
the Otago Regiment, sergeant. Survivals
Passchendaele, he returned to build a big law
practice, and to become chairman of the Bank
of New Zealand. Director of a string of com-
panies ranging from newspapers to breweries
and insurance, he was for years on the
management-committee of the N.Z. Cricket
Council.
In Berkshire (Eng.), at 46, C. C. McMullen,
who went to England in 1931, not long after
leaving Sydney University. He had been given
a short-service R.A.F. commission; it was made
permanent, and McMullen went on to become
air-commodore —in command, at the end, ot
81 Group, R.A.F. Fighter Command.


A FAIR QUESTION


ABORIGINALITIES
TTOW to handle the natives is sure-fire
•*-*- stuff for whisker-bristling contro-
versy here in New Guinea, yet the answer
stares the old-timers bang in the face:
blokes with anatomical spare parts have
the edge on complete white masters.
That holds good even though the planter
who used the old mainland stunt of
putting his glass-eye on a post, while he
lolled on the veranda, found later that
the gang of bush-kanakas clearing his
coffee-land had covered the basilisk over-
seer with a banana-leaf, allowing the
relieved savages to spend the rest of that
day rolling and puffing long smofees in
shaded seclusion. Another employer of
indigenes sent strike-leaders scuttling
back to duty when he whipped out his
"I’m sorry. Constable. I thought you were thumbing a lift."
teeth and, arms outstretched, clanked
them in the face of the ringleader. An
ex-Dig, won proper and lasting respect
from a truculent deputation when, at
breakfast, he reached under the table and
unscrewed his leg, placing it, still natty in
white sock and polished shoe, beside his
bacon-and-egg. Saw a prospector get a
sympathetic response recruiting work-
shy cargo-boys. In their neck-of-the-
woods it was the custom to lop off a
finger-joint on the death of a near rela-
tive. The miner had pruned one hand
impressively scaring gold out of hiding
with explosives. In fact, any way you
look at it there’s a trouble-free future
up here for any young fellow with a glass-
eye, false-teeth, plastic proboscis, ersatz
mitt, tin-leg and toupee. —“Ybsul.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Ranji”: Delivering mail, I heard an
almost perfect imitation of my whittle. I
looked all round, expecting to see a kid
with a toy whistle, or perhaps a parrot.
The imitator opened up again, and I
spotted it; a starling, seated on a near-
by chimney. Is it a rare case, or is the
fowl generally so talented?
f * * *
“Bogaduck”: I met him, a Tasmanian,
while we were both fishing the Glenelg
River, in western Victoria. He was sur-
prised to hear I was after English perch.
“Trout for me,” he said. By his look
I’d evidently uttered heresy in saying I’d
sooner eat blotting-paper. I duly landed
some perch, he bagged a few trout, and
we cooked them on the same fire. With
the first mouthful he registered dislike.
“Can’t make it out,” he said. “The trout
from the creek near my place have a
beautiful flavor, but these damn’ things
do taste like paper.” He tried some of
my offered fried perch, and pronounced
it good. “You’ll find nine-tenths of the
trout in Australia aren’t worth eating,”
I assured him at parting. Long after-
wards I met him again and he told me
I’d been right. He’d caught them in
dozens of places on the mainland, and
except those from Sturt’s Creek, in the
hills near Adelaide, they weren’t worth
putting in a pan. Is it that trout are
worth eating only if caught in cold moun-
tain streams?
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Doremus”; Our chooks are swift off
the mark at tucker-time, so to make sure
that the newly-bought quacklings got
their fair share we fed them in the pond.
The wily fowls had the answer to that.
Apparently they knew that the ducklings,
after plunging into the water to retrieve
the tucker, would return to dry land to
eat it at their leisure, and that was when
the feathered pirates bounced the babies
off their breakfast. But there was an
answer to that, too. Next morning the
whole yellow-downed fleet revictualled
well off-shore.
* * ♦ ♦
“Laetitia”: Fish must have a lively
appreciation of the differing buoyancies
of freshwater and saltwater (B. 10/2/’54).
On Badu Island, in Torres Straits, a small
swift-running stream empties into a fairly
large waterhole, one end of which con-
nects with the sea except at very low tide.
The bottom of the waterhole, across its
entire width, drops sharply, making a
seerxfing line of demarcation for fresh-
water and saltwater fish-populations. At
certafih tidal phases freshwater and salt-
water denizens could be seen almost
rubbing snouts at the invisible line, which
neither species seemed willing or able to
cross. I’ve tested them by throwing in a
floating morsel of food; it would be
swarmed by the freshwater species until
it reached the dividing-line, when it would
be instantly abandoned. The saltwater-
dwellers would then take over, but none
ever beat the gun by crossing the barrier.
The water for some yards on either side
of the drop had the same neutral or
faintly-brackish taste, so the segregation
must be seated in buoyancy-difference
rather than salinity.
* * « *
“Ymar”: The snake, a neat coil on
the orchard grass, lay asleep. I crept up
and, holding the pruning-saw by the tip.
“Feeling a little better this morning, I see.”
smote him hard with the handle. His
head shot up through the coil, tying him
in a knot. It was while Joe was trying to
unravel himself that he copped the lot.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Disloyal though it may sound,
there’s one little community in Sydney
that will be glad the Royal visit has
ended. I heard its views in Hyde Park
one night, and perhaps it’s as well that,
to the human ear, everything a bird utters
sounds like a song. The comments were
coining from the illuminated foliage in
which numerous birds have long been in
the habit of sleeping peacefully.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“W.J.W.”: Some of Perth’s oldest
public buildings are roofed with slates
(B. 10/2/’54), and they’re still sound.
Even so, I think it was pure flashness that
prompted the use of an imported article
in preference to a tried local product.
When Perth Town Hall was built in the
1860’s it was roofed very largely, with
wood. Several hundred thousand jarrah
—mahogany, then —shingles were used,
and some of them are still in place, and
weatherproof.
• ♦ • •
“Kelms”: The men experimenting
with rice-growing at Liveringa, in the
Kimberleys (W.A.), have spent a lot of
money and put in a lot of hard work for
little return over the last two years, largely
because of the longest drought in the
country’s history. But drought’s only one
of their problems, and from what they’ve
learnt they’re optimistic. Birds are one of
their main worries (they range from
finches to big parrots, and netting big
areas isn’t practical), and irrigation’s an-
other. There’ll have to be big dams built
and big pumps installed. Getting stores
and equipment into the irrigation area
is hard and costly, and the right type
of labor isn’t plentiful. But they’re per-
severing, and before asking for Govern-
ment aid they’re going to prove that rice-
growing up thejre is a commercial propo-
sition. Which shows their methods are
different. The other way is to import
bulldozers, clear and level a million acres,
build huge dams, install a few million
pounds worth of plant, and prepare your
seed-beds. Then you inspect the area and
find out if you can grow ground-nuts—
or rice, as the case may be.
« * * *
“Bass”: I’m intrigued by a report that,
workers at the Missouri (U.S.A.) Agricul-
tural Experiment Station have discovered
that gypsum helps to clear muddy water
in farm dams. The old prospectors knew
this, and so did the early settlers in
W.A.’s wheatbelt. On road-gangs, where
the drinking water all came from town
dams, I’ve used a pinch of gypsum to a
kerosene-tin of water and found it did a
better job than wood-ashes. No doubt
those research-workers at Missouri have
also discovered that it’s a great soil-con-
ditioner —it’ll make the toughest soils
friable. They probably know it, too, as
a flux in smelting nickel ores, as an insu-
lator against heat, cold and noise, and as
an ingredient in Portland cement to con-
trol the setting-time. Their text-books
will have listed its use as a filler in paper
and as an ingredient in some paints, and
they would have mentioned the part it
plays in beer-making—it improves the
water. Anyway, they should know all
this —it was common knowledge in W.A.
80 years ago.
» * * *
“Tidak Makan”: The million-to-one
chance that “Sebak” (B. 27 /1 / *54)
reported of a tunneller drilling into the
end of a hole bored from the other side
was bettered in War I by a Fritz who let
fly at the British trenches with his rifle.
His missile entered the muzzle of a Lee-
Enfield that had just been discharged and
the two bullets met in the barrel. The
resultant mess is now in the museum at
the Small Arms School at Hythe (Eng.).
♦ ♦ » *
“Akrabo”: Where did “Eurimburra”
(B. 10/2/’54) get the idea that Lake
George, near Canberra, is saline? I have
drunk the water many times and there
was not a hint of salt. Moreover, when
the lake is dry there is no salt crust; also
the bottom shortly after drying-out
carries good fodder-grass.
•♦* . *
“Cyda”: I can’t see much difference
between “Topo’s” level (B. 10/2/ ’54)
and that of “Bert the Carpenter” (B.
13/l/’54). I have an old square which
has been in use for upwards of 80 years.
Hand-made of English oak, the tongue is
about 24in. long and the base 18in. The
base has a hole near its junction with the
tongue to take a plumb-bob, and a saw-
cut at the other end to grip the plumb-
line, When the base is plumb, the tongue
is level. It can also be used as a try-
square. Elementary, my dear Watson.
« ♦ * *
“8.A.K.”: I often wondered how sea-
birds. got on for a drink when far from
land. A seagull at Seven Mile Beach
(N.S.W.) supplied the answer. He minced
across to a pool left by the falling tide
and drank thirstily; four of his mates
joined in. They all seemed satisfied with
the brew, yet recent rains had left fresh-
water pools on a grassy flat less than
50yds. away. The natural conclusion is
that saltwater will slake a sea-bird’s thirst
without producing any ill-effects. There
may be a thought in it for scientists. A
sea-bird’s stomach may contain some
neutralising agent which removes the
harmful effects of saltwater. Perhaps it
would be an idea to cease striving for
emergency appliances that could condense
the salt out of sea-water, and endeavor
to find a chemical which humans could
swallow, thereby making saltwater palat-
able and thirst-quenching.
THE SAVING LIFE
The sun drew blue in the deep
and in the shallow,
green and yellow,
light flickered as a* silver fish,
while the heaving breath of a sleepy sea
broke in a yawn on the beach.
The black rock drowned in lilies of foam
and was there in the wake
with the pulse of time,
stronger than storm.
Sure as the rock
she nvst the sea,
lissom and light,
young as her suit was bright.
Though water pulled at feet and thigh,
her muscles held,
her jaw was high.
Till a green dumper
bumped her
and she swirled
with surf and • sand
to surety of land.
In yawn of the sea
were the teeth of the surf,
the throat of the shark.
She lay on the beach and shook.
She did not look.
The sun with red-hot fingers tanned
and a light wind fanned
as hundreds and thousands lay
soaking in salt of the day.
I
Cold drop on her back
and her eyes met glare.
In his friendly crack
was salt-sea shock . , t
She took his dare.
By him to waves
she learnt to go
with the undertow,
to dive,
or strive
as the breakers rose,
shoot with the crest
beneath her breast. /-
Lazy breakers lolled and broke
and in bursting surges the deep sea woke.
W.A.
OLIVE PELL.


SIMPLEST method of acquiring fish-
bait I have yet seen is practised on
the Barron River (Q.) by anglers of
sundry colors. There the Guinea-grass
grows to great lengths, and hangs over
and into the river in clumps hundreds of
yards long. It is just a matter of back-
ing boat or canoe against the overhang-
ing grass; one man in the stern picks up
an armful of the dripping ends, whips it
over the boat, and shakes vigorously.
Result; a shower of shrimps, small
mullet, mud-cod, tiny crabs, and odd-
ments. —“Pigskin Bagman,”
♦ * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: The little Victorian
railway-siding and bush post-office was
once part of a large sheep-run which
used to employ a gin in the shearing-shed
to apply tar to cuts in sheep. The shearer
would yell, “Tar on, Ginnie!” And that
is it today, with the spelling slightly
different: Tarranginnie.
♦ * * ♦
“Horncastle”: While that squatter of
“City Ditties” (B. 10/2/’54) was cutting
a dash in Sydney, another of his order
was going to town in Brisbane, urged on
by drinking partners at a Queen-street
pub. He wagered he could jump his horse
over the table at which they were sitting.
Bet accepted, the bettor, booted and
spurred, mounted his horse outside the
tavern and rode briskly through the
door. Mount and man rose in the air;
the rider was wiped from the saddle by
the low ceiling; the neddy, startled, took
the furniture with his ironclads. Rev.
Dr. John Dunmore Lang, who observec|
the incident, was shocked into giving
voice to a classic understatement: “The
habits of the people are most irregular.”
♦ * * *
“H.A.L.”: In my youth I solved the
feeding of goldfish (B. 10/2/’54) in a
very simple way. I had two aquariums,
complete with water-weeds, sand on the
bottom and pond-snails to keep the glass
clean. For a fortnight the fish lived in
one of them. By that time the second one
was alive with mosquito-wrigglers. Then
I transferred the fish to it by means of a
little dab-net. After a few months they
actually seemed to look forward to the
change and made no effort to escape the
net! And, of course, while they were
having a grand time cleaning-up the
wrigglers, aquarium No. 1 was breeding
another lot. Supplementary diet consisted
of eggs gathered 5 from ant-nests in the
garden and the catchings of a blowfly-
trap. The fish soon learned to take the
flies from my fingers.
* • ♦ *
“W.G.R.”: The gadgets Island natives
suspend from their ear-lobes (B. 17/2/’54)
are usually for ornament, but a New
Guinea “Chimbu” I met had put to good
use his pierced nasal septum. It held
cotton-wool as a protective mask while
the wearer operated a paint-spray gun.
* « ♦ ♦ .
“Pigskin Bagman”: “Salmon Gums’s”
education in boomerang-throwing (B.
3/ 2 / ’54) won’t be complete until he sees
a Diamantina black send the four-foot
“bouncer” after a fleeing ’roo. This cumf
bersome-lookiug weapon strikes the
ground every 20yds. or so, until
its final contact across the spine of the
hopper. Even what can be called “toys”
—the various curved and decorated
boomerangs used for playabout—can be,
and are, used to decapitate a squatting
turkey or drop a wallaby at close range.
The kids’ practising-medium is the
“wirra wirra goo,” an ingeniously-knotted
cross of stiff grass or pandanus-leaf,
which performs surprising and beautiful
evolutions when skilfully thrown.
* * * *
“Sack”: Reason, of course, that
“Pawang’s” goat still tries to scratch
itself behind the ear with its amputated
hoof (B. 10/2/ ’54) is that the impulse
behind the action still comes from the
brain to the existing nerve. I watched
a one-legged seagull attempt to alight on
a sea-wall. His stump followed the move-
ment of the good leg, and failing to con-
tact the wall made frantic motions, obvi-
ously born of bewilderment. With wings
outspread, he managed to catch his bal-
ance and stand on the good pin for a
moment, but he was not at ease. Presently
he tried to change legs, and was in trouble
again. He just couldn’t realise that the
leg was missing, for he flew several yards
and tried to alight again, as though in
the belief that the first spot must have
been uneven. From there he wheeled off
the wall and tried the ground,, then
skimmed to a flat rock. No doubt he will
eventually ravel the mystery out —I have
seen one-legged gulls that were scarcely
handicapped—but, as with a human
amputee, adjustment must take consider-
able time.
# * ♦ ♦
“Macquarie”: Discussing on the job
of the meaning of South Coast (N.S.W.)
fishing village and holiday resort Ulla-
dulla’s name found..supporters for “blue
water,” “many fish,*’ “safe harbor,” and
even for “ulladulla” being the nearest
an abo. tongue could get to pronouncing
“holy dollar.” A glossary of aborigine
names, however, confirmed “safe harbor,”
further confirmed by coincidence when,
less than a week later, Wollongong radio-
station reported that, at a conference of
professional fisherman, Ulladulla had
been recognised as the safest harbor along
the South Coast. The unknown nomen-
clator evidently knew his work. •
“ That's no way to use a brace-and-bit , Helen."
“Nailil”: For some weeks the merchan-
disc of our N.Q island trading-post had
been mysteriously vanishing. One night
at the height of a tropical downpour I
was awakened by Ruwelu, who told me
water was pouring in through the store
roof. With his aid, and in the light of
hurricane-lamps, I managed to salvage the
stuff, and then it occurred to me to ask
how Ruwelu had happened to be on hand
at such a timely stage. Blandly he in-
formed me: “I bin come to steal, Bawss!
I pinish get in that way,” pointing to the
aperture in the ridging. While I was
deliberating on what to do with the self-
confessed thief, Ruwelu supplied the
answer with his suggestion, “More better,
Bawss, you give me two fackets Capstan,
If I no come steal every night you pinish
losem all that cargo!” 1 gave him the
weed, barred the aperture and called the
incident closed.
A CAMP IN THE GUMS
A camp in the gums
where the south wind shall find him:
the coast at his feet
and the mountain behind him.
A space in the leaves,
and the lot of the rover,
to wake in the night
at the swans going over;
to wake under stars
through the drifts of the weather
and the cries of the swans
all blendless together.
A camp in the gums
where the morning has found him:
the coast at his feet
and the forests around him.
n.s.w.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
CLEARING IT UP
January 14.
The Principal,
Dudd Efficiency Training College.
Dear Sir,
For some months I have been taking
two of your correspondence courses:
Business Efficiency and How to Become
Masterful.
I have just received an invitation to a
“stag” party. On all such previous
occasions my requests to my wife for
permission to attend have been refused
point-blank, I feel that, having now
absorbed advanced lessons, I should take
advantage of the present occasion to put
into practice the lessons I have had.
Before proceeding, however, I would
like you to advise me on one matter.
“Look lively, Latimer —it clouds-in quickly here."
. ~ , ,
Which would be the more advantageous
time for me to assert my marital
authority: at the breakfast-table, or
immediately I have finished washing-up
after the evening meal?
I would greatly appreciate it if you
would forward the answer not to my
home, but to the business address given
above. ,
/ Yours faithfully,
Henry Hatrack.
January 28.
Mr. Henry Hatrack.
Dear Sir, ■ > _
With reference to yours of the 20th
inst. We have no record of your ever
having taken any course with our college.
Could you let us know what date you
allegedly joined, quoting date and number
of receipt for fees paid?
It seems more likely, however, that you
are mistaking us for some other college.
Yours faithfully,
A. Dudd, Principal.
February 2.
The Principal,
Dudd Efficiency Training College.
Dear Sir,
I have forgotten the exact date I
enrolled with your college for the corres-
pondence courses named, but I am positive
it was some time between last December-
twelvemonths and last March. Unfortu-
nately I have mislaid the receipt, but I
distinctly remember i# was on a pale-
green form. Hoping this may assist you,
Yours faithfully,
Henry Hatrack.
February 8.
Mr. Henry Hatrack,
Dear Sir,
We have a record of one Henry
McScuirter as having enrolled for two
courses last June. He was, in fact, the
only one in the college who was simul-
taneously taking two courses last year.
In view of this, it seems positive that
your memory must be seriously at fault
regarding the particular college from
which you had the correspondence
courses. This would presuppose that you
stand in dire need of a memory-training
course, which would yield you much
greater benefit than the courses you are
taking elsewhere.
I enclose, a syllabus covering -this
course, and would most earnestly impress
upon you the need to study it closely. Our
tutorial staff have had quite brilliant
results with cases far worse than obviously
is yours. Our scale of fees is also
enclosed.
Yours faithfully,
A. Dudd, Principal.
February 12.
The Principal,
Dudd Efficiency Training College,
Dear Sir,
There must be some mistake. I recall
now that I did .enroll with your college,
and that the other course I took was not
Business Efficiency but Memory
Training.
Yours faithfully,
Henry Hatrack.
February 20.
Mr. Henry Hatrack.
Dear Sir,
On looking up our records we find
that it was you and not Henry McScuirter
who took the two courses. Apparently
it was the striking similarity in the two
Christian-names which led to the con-
fusion.
Pray accept our apologies. We hasten
to assure you we will give you every
possible assistance with your particular
problem. Wfiat was it?
Yours faithfully,
A. Dudd, Principal,
February 22.
Dear Sir, r
Please refer to my original letter. 1
forget the date. „
Yours faithfully,
Henry Hatrack.
February 25.
Mr. Henry Hatrack.
Dear Sir, ' . . ,
Please excuse the delay. Your °ng>
letter was inadvertently filed under Start
Appointments Pending.”
We are pleased to advise you that the
best time, psychologically, to inform your
wife, with masterful firmness, of your
intention to attend the stag PJ-
irrespective of her wishes the matter
would be when she has her hair \
butterfly-clips. A woman then feels at
a distinct disadvantage. , • , ]v
Wishing you every success, academically
and domestically, ~
Yours faithfully, .
A. Dudd, Principal.
February 28.
The Principal, ‘ . , r «
Dudd Efficiency Training College.
°it was no doubt a lapse of memoryo n
your part—not unnatural, as Y ou ’
ably had one of your own
training courses—which cause you
send your answer to my t d
my business address, as requested.
y My wife has given me
cease attendance at yo d refund
instructed by her also to 4®^"“
she follows this
1 Henry Hatrack,
per
Bo.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
LONDON STORY*
« Trust TILLEY
to make something Better
fs
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked fanner. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better j
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must tie the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is, no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better! I
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—ln
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Eepresentatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
/ 183-125 William Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Bucking the Jinx
'THE month of March is usually
a jittery one in the Australian
sharemarket. For almost 20
years, excluding the pegged-
share-price period, something has
upset investment confidence
round about the “ides of
March” and share-prices have
weakened or slumped. Generally
the weakening each year has had
a different cause; from Roose-
velt’s threat to upvalue the dollar
in 1935 to events following the
fall of Singapore in 1942.
Latterly it has often been no
more than the effect of habit or
superstition—a “jinx.”
Though most of March, 1954,
has still to run, on present indi-
cations it would be pure super-
stition, or possibly individual
personal financial causes (such
as providing for income-tax
assessments), that might cause a
recession in share-prices. For
nearly all the indications are
that industry is doing well, on
the whole, and interim dividends
are being increased in a large
number of cases.
The Bulletin forecast some
months ago that many com-
panies would be increasing their
interim dividends this year, and
at about this time. Earlie’*,
increases were announced by
Tooth and Australasian Paper,
to mention only two cases.
But last week higher interims
were declared by a variety of
companies.
Ansett Transport Industries
returned to the div.-list with a
2 p.c. interim, as against nothing
in the preceding term. Brick-
works, Ltd., came to light with
6i p.c. (last year interim 5 p.c.,
final 5 p.c.). In the same line,
Clyde Brick Co. pays 5 p.c. (last
year interim 3| p.c., final 6f p.c.,
both tax-free).
Fred. Clark Holdings, in the
sheet - metal and hospital-
equipment business, pays an
interim of 5 p.c. (last year interim
4 p.c., final 4 p.c., bonus 2 p.c.).
George G. Clarke, Ltd.,
importers of kapok floor-cover-
ings and furnishings, interim
6| p.c. (last year interim 5 p.c.,
final 5 p.c., bonus 2i p.c.).
Tennyson Textiles, interim 4 p.c.
(li p.c. tax-free), against interim
3 p.c. tax-free, final 5 p.c., bonus
1 P-c.
Adelaide Steamship, among
the leaders, interim 2\ p.c. (last
year interim 2 p.c., final 3| p.c.),
Brown-Gouge, Ltd., dry-cleaners,
interim 5 p.c. tax-free (last year,
final only, 8| p.c., tax-free).
Duncan and Co., Ltd., Adelaide
distributor of auto-parts, interim
10 p.c. (int. 8 p.c., final 17 p.c.).
F. H. Faulding and Co., interim
3\ p.c. (last year int. 3 p.c., final
4 p.c.). Gordon Edgell, food-
canners, int. 3i p.c. (last year
int. 3i p.c., final 3£ p.c.). Wiicp-
lator (Aust.), makers of thermo-
stats, int. 5 p.c. (last year nil).
Bebarfalds (Sydney furniture)
has raised its interim to 5 p.c.
(last year 4 p.c., final 5 p,c.).
E. T, Brown, Ltd. (Brownbilt
steel equipment) 5 p.c. (4 p.c.,
6 p.c.). F. J. Walker 6} p.c.,
including 5| p.c. tax-free (5 p.c.
tax-free, 5 p.c., bonus 2\ p.c.).
Hawke (Aust.), Ltd., 2d. (l|d.,
2d.). H. P. Gregory and Co.
(machinery merchants) 4 p.c.
(3 p.c., 5 p.c.). Pick-Me-Up
Condiment Co., 4 p.c., tax-free
(3 p.c., 4 p.c., both tax-free).
Ducon Condenser 5 p.c. (3| p.c.,
6i p.c.). Rocla Pipes, Ltd.,
interim 6} p.c. (5 p.c., 5 p.c., last
year).
In some cases quoted among
the foregoing the increased
interim, if repeated as a final,
will only equal last year’s full
distribution, and it may be that
the co. concerned this, year is
simply a little surer of itself at
this juncture and is handing out
half of what it believes will be
the full distribution for the year.
On the other hand there are cases
where it is established practice to
pay a higher final than the in-
terim. In a number of instances
this year the higher interim is
more than half last year’s total
dividend.
Among concerns to cut their
rate of interim distribution has
been Malcolm Moore Industries
"A joint account, please—John Henry Smithers to make
deposits , Mary Jane Smithers to sign the cheques.”
(engineers, crane and hoist manu-
facturers, etc.), which pays 6 p.c.,
against last year’s interim 10 p.c.,
final 10 p.c.
Indicative of the recovery in
the house-furnishing business, on
the other hand, has been the
return of Linoleum Holdings to
the div.-list with a 7.4 p:c. distri-
bution for the year to January
31. The operating company,
Michael Nairn and Co. (Aust.),
Ltd., reports that sales show a
considerable increase and that
the profit earned during the
period was satisfactory.
Most statistics and indicators
point to great present industrial
activity. Output of pig-iron and
steel is now at the rate of over
2,000,000 tons a year for the
first time in Australia’s history,
and coal output is holding up
well. Cement - production is
increasing rapidly, and soon
should be within striking distance
of 2,000,000 tons a year. Brick-
and-tile output is also a record.
There has been a complete
recovery in the demand for
timber. Production of Australian
sawn timber during the six
months to December 31 last has
never been equalled in volume.
The boom is on again in the
refrigerator business. Output for
December was an all-time high,
and if figures covering July-
December are repeated during
the next six months production
will be up nearly 50 p.c. on the
record 1950-51 year. Production
of washing-machines is running
at about 70 p.c. higher than last
year. The vacuum - cleaner
industry is recovering. The radio
business has never been busier.
Perhaps indicative* of the
household-appliance industry as
a whole are the production
figures for fractional-horsepower
motors. Record output of these
(under 1 h.p.) was 553,151 in
1951-52. During the six months
to December 31 last output was
376,901 ; if that figure is
repeated in the second half the
total this financial year will
exceed 750,000.
The motor-tyre industry was
hit by the 1951 setback. Produc-
tion is again at a record level.
The textile industry is patchy,
with the woollen section worst
off. Rayon is booming, with an
output rapidly approaching that
of the cotton-weaving industry.
Holeproof (hosiery) has raised
its div. from 8 p.c. to 12j p.c.
Altogether, though some
industries have been revealed by
the Tariff Board to be vulnerable
to overseas competition, 1953-54
should be a year of record indus-
trial output in Australia, and
this, helped by lower company
taxes, should be reflected in the
profits of companies engaged
in the busy industries,
Japan’s Trade Aims
Pressure of Japan’s trade-
expansion drive is being felt m
Australia, as elsewhere in the
world, and the methods being
used repay study. Some indica-
tion of the aims was given in
the Diet on • January 27 by
Foreign Minister Kat s u o
Okazaki after he had declared it
was urgently necessary to cover
normal imports with normal
exports. “It is only natural for
us to hope to reach markets in
every part of the world,” said
Okazaki, “and for this purpose
we are planning to establish ten
overseas offices at selected places
important for trade, in spite of
our austere Budget... .In view of
historical and geographical rela-
tions, the markets in neighboring
countries, especially in South-
east Asian countries, are most
vital to us.” He went on to urge
removal of “obstacles to trade,”
adding: “We would like to see
tariff barriers removed, import-
restrictions relaxed and activities
of Japanese firms facilitated.
Such things as the entry of our
country into GATT and the con-
clusion of a trade-agreement with
Britain will contribute greatly to
this end.”
Okazaki urged reduction, of
Jap production-costs, and men-
tioned that efforts to raise the
purchasing-power of S.-e. Asian
nations would include payment
of war reparations “within the
limits permitted by our
economy,” and “economic co-
operation as occasion may arise.”
N.Z. Trade with Japan
Two-way trade-pacts have
never been much use to New
Zealand, and can hardly be
expected to be more profitable
in the future, when a more com-
petitive spirit abroad in the
world will force N.Z., as well as
others, to be more enterprising
in marketing.' Still, the little
country could hardly say “No”
to Japan when talks were sug-
gested lately with the idea of
planning trade on bilateral lines.
As commerce on this basis has
something in common with
barter, a country which enters
into a two-way agreement when
the balance is in its favor —and
this is N.Z.’s position—has to
make most of the concessions.
Japan is looking for more
room in N.Z.’s market, in return
for which it will continue to be
a good buyer of wool and other
things, to a value of nearly £4
million yearly. This means that
Maoriland will sell about as
much as it does now, and Japan
will sell more. Japan's strongest
card is that it would have to buy
less from N.Z. if it couldn’t book
more business for Japanese
firms. N.Z. would hardly be so
silly as to want to lose custom
with its best buyer in the Orient,
and if it came to a question of
balancing trade at a high or low
level there’s only one answer
from N.Z.’s point of view; it
wouldn’t have much to live for
in a world of shrinking trade.
Jack Watts, Minister of Indus-
tries and Commerce, didn’t give
anything away when he said
early in February that trade
across the Pacific was important,
“particularly because of Japan’s
substantial purchases of N.Z.
products.” This was just after
John Bull had changed his
ground and opened the door for
more Japanese goods in Com-
monwealth markets, and after the
Japs had been waiting some
months to talk business with
N.Z. Before this Maoriland had
lengthened its list of goods for
import this year, and a couple
of years ago had bought so
liberally for a twelvemonth that
the trade was in balance during
the import boom. The Japs
grew uneasy when the flow from
their end fell away to a trickle
last year, but they should be hap-
pier again in a few months’ time.


3Sr
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
' •
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PCBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
a
ms
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording instruments
for ««f elsu o* MichUwf
or Eqwipm«nt
METER CHARTS ■ SpocUhy
Ji\CIiWSrO , SI)LUVAN%L^
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
TO GEORGE ALEXANDER HORRIGAN
Address Unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DOROTHY HORRIGAN has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground that you
have deserted her for a period of three
years or more alternatively that you and
she have been separated for a continuous
period of not less than five years immedi-
ately preceding the commencement of the
action and there is no reasonable likeli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed. If
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central Office
of the Supreme Court at Perth within
thirty (30) clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the ease may proceed and the Court
will present judgment and make orders
against you in your absence.
DATED the 15th day of February,
1954. —G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
Messrs. ROBINSON, COX & CO.. 20
Howard Street, Perth, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
INSURANCE— for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British .Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
Reduce lamb & weaner losses!
Increase lambing percentage !
I
m.
m
mm*
mm
mm .
m
A DRY-PASTURE PROBLEM OVERCOME:
Dry pastures need not necessarily mean heavy losses
because findings of C.5.1.R.0. research reveal that
vitamin A deficiency, which occurs under dry conditions,
is one of the main causes of losses and this deficiency
can now be corrected by drenching with High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’.
‘VETEMUL* is an emulsion developed in recent years
and used by leading Australian poultry and livestock
owners. It supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the
best green feed. Now a High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is
introduced specially designed for use by sheep owners.
Because it is so highly concentrated, each dose supplies
total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. One
gallon of High-Potency‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient
for one dose each to 220 sheep (rams, ewes or weaners)
or 320 lambs—only i/3d. each for sheep and iOd. each
for lambs.
HIGH POTENCY
LLii
llliJ
/
\
PRODUCT OF NICHOLAS PTY. LTD.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral House
or usual station supplier.
Write for brochure explaining the full importance of vitamin A for rams,
ewes, lambs and weaners post free on request to V9/S3
TUchoiaS fiti/. JXd .
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St., Melbourne, Australia
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
In fiction, scarifying things
can happen to us all. Supposing
our water-supply were suspected
of pollution? Or our daily bread
of infection? Or some fast-
spreading and death-giving
virus were dropped from the
air? It is fair to assume that
the public, mortified out of its
senses, would besiege its Town
Halls, browbeat its M.P.s,
furiously improvise emergency
measures and, altogether, turn
the world upside-down to get
something done about its plight.
For one must eat, drink and
attend to business.
We have, indeed, such a scare
among us at this moment. The
surprising thing is how calmly
and undemonstrably the affected
public is facing the dreadful
possibilities of its continued
action. With rather more reflec-
tion than usual and with a
slightly worried look, it lights
a cigarette, the better to turn the
problem over in its mind.
In truth, no problem was ever
easier to solve. If cigarette-
smoking breeds cancer, then
give up smoking. “Oh, dear!
That’s different Don’t worry.
Have one of mine they’re
another brand.” .And so the
rationalisation goes on.
Of course, there’s no proof
yet, as the tobacco companies
have been quick to point out.
But how much more conviction
that statement would have
carried had it emanated from,
say, the 8.M.A.! It’s high time,
too, that the Government did
something about smoke-abate-
ment, for a few days of indus-
trial “smog” can wreak more
damage on the lungs than a
year’s moderate smoking,
“Wait! What do you mean
by moderate smoking?”—
“About ten [meaning, of course,
fifteen to twenty] a day.”—
“That’s too many. The Min-
ister of Health says five’s the
maximum for safety.”
Ah, well! It is some consola-
don to remember, as thumb de-
fiantly flicks lighter, that the
Minister of Health himself
smokes twenty-five a day and
that one of the learned investi-
gators is a forty-a-day man.
Downcast Lancashire
These are hard times for the
Chancellor of the Exchequer.
The shape of April’s Budget
must now have been decided on.
It is unlikely to please every-
body, least of all the manage-
ments of business and industry.
And Mr. Butler has also to
throw off a good deal of censure
and resentment from his party’s
traditional supporters. He is
attacked on three main issues:
the Sydney decision not to build
tariff-walls round the Empire;
the trade-agreement with Japan;
and his premature announce-
ment that purchase tax will not
be reduced.
All these, and particularly the
last two, have precipitated
gloom and ill-feeling in Lanca-
shire. On the whole, comment
is favorable to the Japanese
agreement. For, if free to be
objective and wide-searching, it
has to recognise that Japan is a
considerable importer from the
sterling Commonwealth area
with a hefty deficit to be over-
come. Yet the City is appre-
hensive, and “Financial Times”
looks upon it as a new device,
following Socialist lines, to
boost unrequited sterling ex-
ports and as “a deal so ingenious
and unsound that its author
might almost have been Dr.
Schacht.”
Lancashire is stung. Her dis-
like of the Japs and her dis-
trust of Japanese business
methqds are as real as anywhere
else. But her fears are more
deep-seated than that. She re-
members the idle looms and the
queues at the labor exchanges,
while the shops were ‘drenched
with Cheap Japanese goods.
It is cold comfort to be told
that the cotton trade, once
supplier to the whole world, has
shrunk to the comparative
insignificance of home and
colonial markets only, when
those last strongholds are
threatened; and Mr. Butler’s
inability to knock something off
the purchase tax and thus make
prices more competitive is rub-
bing salt into the wound.
True, Lancashire M-P-s of
violently contrasted political
colors have been both unani-
mous and insistent (markedly
so, since they represent marginal
constituencies) but they have
achieved little, except for an
assurance that the Japanese will
be watched carefully. And two
journals of great influence in
Liberal-minded Lancashire have
offered nothing of practical help.
“Manchester Guardian” de-
voted most of its leader to
Japanese internal ills while
“News Chronicle” advocated a
get-together of British and
Japanese trade-unionists.
Some trades, notably preci-
sion engineering, are flourishing
in Lancashire. Perhaps the
development of industries called
secondary, but obviously noth-
ing of the kind, might have
been better inspired. There’s
no future for Lancashire either
in cotton or in living in the
past.
Socialist Dilemma
The dilemma, which is not
new, is a double one —to put
something appealing before the
electorate and to find a positive
political course of action.
Altogether, the situation is
anything but comforting to the
moderates at the centre, who
would like nothing better than to
shake off the persistent tugging
at their sleeves and to turn their
fronts towards reality. But
there’s no future in it, unfor-
tunately.
As has been shown by Bevanite
trends at by-elections the con-
stituency organisations want
deeper hues. Not the electorate,
though. They’re uninterested,
more than a bit fed up with
politics. So their feelings and
passions have to be aroused.
The trouble here is that the
Conservative Government has
failed the Labor party. It has
not lived up to its reputation for
grinding faces, provoking
unemployment, spreading
poverty and deliberately forcing
down living-standards. To be
thought of as ordinary, decent
folk is no handicap to the Tories.
But that they should be so con-
sidered is the worst possible blow
to Socialist aspirations, for their
shop-window depends for its
appeal entirely upon the various
types of ogre within.
How can the Great Lie be
sustained, when.everybody knows
it is a lie? A moment’s thought
and the worker knows he is just
as well off. The housewife enjoys
tier greater freedom. The trade-
unionist knows (too well) that
the Government is falling over
backwards to maintain employ-
ment and to avoid industrial
trouble.
The Great Lie is sustained
simply by tacking it on to some-
thing else. It’s either that or
nothing, him or me. W. Burke,
chairman of the Labor party,
gave us a taste of this in a recent
broadcast. He “said the right
thing” about wages, prices,
strikes, productivity and so on,
but nailed the Government for
preaching “grab all you can,”
for its destruction of “fair
shares,” for robbing the poor to
add to the bursting coffers of the
rich and for driving up the cost
of living.
None of these allegations was
founded on truth, as Mr. Burke
must have known, as most of his
listeners realised and as the
“Times” pointed out with
righteous horror next day.
The dangers are evident. The
“thinking” of our alternative
Government is based on childish
and unpleasant myths. Its
parochial reactionism and nega-
tive attitudes also lead to a state
of mind that subconsciously
looks to national crisis or
economic collapse for natural
expression. And when, as now,
wages and prices are critically
dependent upon each other, how
much the nation would benefit
from a considered and respon-
sible statement from Labor of its
point of view.
The Prime Minister has re-
affirmed the Government s de-
ctsion to honor tradition and let
jstsz
Sf
bringing wages into party
Politics, presumably with the
underlying motive that their
knight-errantry will be good for
the platform.
They have won over Par-
Uamentajy Labor, though, it.is
said, with considerable misgiv-
sU ings . And no wonder. This
further stamoede from realitv
mrmer siampeoe irom reaniy
can hardly reassure Labors
shadow Cabinet either on
ftional grounds or as a con-
fession of its own impotence m
•
Flourish of Corpses
. Emlyn Williams's thriller
Someone Waiting (Globe
theatre) is London’s most
homicidal play. .When the
final curtain falls, all but one of
the Nedlow household of five
are dead or doomed. One is
garrotted, happily just out of
view, before being crated-up and
dragged j the sumptuous
Pa * f^c[ “
“ rd centr And
alcoholicahy, stmg ft
sobriety b/conscufusness of the
impending hangman s noose,
x be cause this dire and erue-
me cause ot tms dire ana grue
some march of events was yet
another murder in the same
anuuici muiuci, m uic tail
flat, for which the wrong man
was convicted and haneed In
was convicted ana nangea.
all, six dead bodies!
It is all most entertaining,
xi is r
thrilling and breathtaking. Mr.
Williams’s fertility of invention
abundanUy surpasses his relent-
less death-dealmfr Youarett
guessing (not so much wno
dunnit?” as “how come it?”)
v _ rv „ nr r An H the
until the very end. And me
last act, when the vengeful
assassin’s carefully-laid plans
are sent spinning, is a gem of
stagecraft and ingenuity of
working-out.
Mr. Williams himself plays
the broken-down tutor, a bril-
liant failure, whose .only son
innocently started all the pother.
He is a touching, immensely
w £
St>
under to so exacting an author.
For he builds up his characters
only to knock them down or
somersault them violently purely
to meet quite arbitrary exigen-
cies of plot. The tutor has
several of these technical diffl-
culties to overcome or conceal,
And one feels genuinely sorry
fnrNpHinw «pninr whose motor-
±or Nedlow senior, whose motor
car empire is so vast. Robert
CoQte £ arries him off superb ly
as a slight i y pompous orator
s tern parent and urbane man of
ST‘But* his lechery-and
ruho, nrpriilprtinns—
are altogether too P much for our
credulity.
The intellectually complex yet
incontrovertibly - balanced Wil-
liams ’ s formula might gain
f rom simplification. Improb-
ability is piled upon coincidence
to a fantastic degree. The play
iSj as it were, electronically-
computed theatricality. And the
product is just as evanescent as
•» - —ug.


rj.
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
CO
CO
CO
* o
ts»
C 9
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you in any of these matters —providing expert and permlfnent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed «f Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT f*r the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company —or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
will meet your Personal Needs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE „
and at Albnry, Townsville. Toowoomba, Bocktaampton and Cliarlevme
UTI6
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Coote & Jorgensen, Ltd.
r T'HE 27£ p.c. (8.P.T.) duty clapped
A down on imported motor-vehicle
transmission-equipment on February 16
has brightened the outlook for Coote
and Jorgensen, the chief protagonist in
the matter before the Tariff Board. The
duty, which applies also to vehicles that
come in complete, should help lengthen
the co.’s order-book, and so finally
lighten the heavy load of debt to the
bank. Until this debt is substantially
reduced those on the cfrd.-register appear
to be in for a thin time.
Since inception about 26 years ago,
the co. has been engaged in manufacture
and distribution of a wide range of auto-
mobile components, as well as in general
engineering and construction work, and
has wide connections throughout Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Shareholders
had a run of 10 p.c. divs. for the nine
years to 1950, followed by 8 p.c., 4 p.c.
and an empty basket last term.
In 1950 the board set out on a major
engineering development, namely manu-
facture and assembly of complete trans-
mission units, which cover all the mech-
anism of the gear-box and rear-axle
assembly of cars and trucks, together
with the outer housings. A large new
factory, operated on flow lines and with
a capacity of 80,000 units p.a., has been
erected for the purpose at Fairfield, near
Sydney, It wasn’t completed till toward
the close of last accounts. The co. already
supplies units for the Consul, Zephyr and
Customline Ford vehicles, International
trucks and the Holden. Together these
makes accounted for about 46 p.c. of
the 158,000 new motor-vehicles registered
in Australia during 1953.
Public opinion is divided on *the ques-
tion of protective duties. Broadly speak :
ing, these levies aim to foster essential
local manufacture and the employment
and other benefits that go with it, at the
expense of foreign competitors and local
consumers. Two big dangers are the
possible coddling of inefficiency and a
top-heavy costs structure. Our chief
shield in this respect is the Tariff Board.
It is all part of the price to be paid for
building up infant secondary industries
in a rapidly-expanding economy.
In a sheltered and growing market, the
business bounded along until the close
of accounts in 1952. Then a chill wind
from overseas, and other things, brought
a trading loss of £134,122 for the 12
months to the close of last accounts, and
the ords. were passed by:
r 1 Dividends —,
r*-Pref. —-v Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. serves.*
£*£/£* £ £
1949. .44,391 1400 8425 10 p.e. = 25,589 102,206
1950.. 48,214 1400 5000 10 „ ~ 30,000 114,020
Share-issue exes., £11,250 .. .. 102,770
1951.. 61.512 1400 5000 8 p.c. = 37,315 120,567
Share-issue exes., £18,750 .. .. 101,817
1952.101,946 1400 5000 4 p.c. = 30,000 167,363
Tax overprovided, £10,303 .. .. 177,166
Loss.
1953.134,122 1400 5000 Nil 37,144
* After deducting intangibles, now £57,885.
The loss, which leaves out of the reckon-
ing*£lo,3o3 overprovided for taxation in
the previous year, was written after
allowing £81,173 (up £21,172) for
depreciation. It was in part due to the
dislocation inevitable on transfer to the
new factory, but mainly to the drop in
turnover and its effepts upon unit costs
and profit-margins that followed a mild
recession in the motor trade, which was
caught with heavy stocks—this position
did not apply m respect of the Holden.
Orders in the general engineering section
fell away, too.
To help build the new factory and
provide for general expansion of business,
shareholders put up £1,213,000 of fresh
capital during the two years to mid-1952.
But it was not enough. Meanwhile the
ords. had dropped below par in the
market, so the co. had t> rely on its
bankers to see the new project to
completion:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital ~ £870,000 £1,833,000 £1,633,000
Reserves .. .. 120,567 167,363 37,144
Overdraft ~ .. 198,104 768,392 2,162,515
Creditors, etc.* ~ 185,421 480,218 249,521
Annexe liability .. 137,162 110,699 9^,938
Final div. .. 25,315
£1,536,569 £3,K9,672 £4,182,118
Land and buildings 183,421 498,392 716,507
Plant, etc. .. 645,908 1,4E7,195 2,039,747
Shares .. .. 1,675 1,675 1,675
Stocks .. .. 470,720 982.650 1,243,291
Debtors .. ~ 234,845 299,760 180,898
£1,536,569 £3,169,672 £4,182,118
* Includes provision for taxation.
To add £830,667 to the book-value of
premises (up £218,115) and plant (up
£612,552), carry £310,641 more stocks (in
at valuation) and reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£230,697, book-debts were reduced by
£118,862 and £1,394,123 was added to
the overdraft, raising it to £2,162,515.
That was £492,371 more than share-
holders’ net tangible stake in the business.
Hence the chairman’s remark that “the
resources of the co. must be applied in
full to reduction of the overdraft.”
The old factory at Alexandria* is to be
sold; but what ultimately happens in
connection with adjustment of the finan-
cial structure, and when the ords. are
likely to come into the picture again,
will largely depend upon the showing
the co. is able to make under shelter of
the new tariff, full effects of which will
not be felt until the 1954-55 term. Since
the close of last accounts orders have
come forward in steadily increasing
volume.
The market lengthened its bid for the
f.-p. £1 shares from 14s. 3d. at end of
January last to 16s. following announce-
ment of the tariff, then weakened to
15s. 3d. At that figure the return would
be 6.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
7 p.c. first and 5 p.c. second prefs. at
225. 6d. and 15s. 6d, yield 6.2 p.c. and 6.5
p.c. respectively.’ Net tangible cover is
£BO 10s. firsts, £l6 10s, seconds and
20s, 6d. ords.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
SHAREHOLDERS have good reason
to feel satisfied with the way in.
which the Myer group—it is the biggest
retail organisation in the Commonwealth
—stood up to the economic consequences
of the balance-of-payments crisis, and
with the residence of the figures since.
The group consists of the parent co.,
Myer Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne’s
largest department store, aid half-a-
dozen subsidiaries. The offshoots are
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd., biggest
retail establishment in Adelaide; ,Wen-
douree Woollen Mills Pty. (Ballarat),
previously Myer Woollen Mills Pty.;
Economic Cash Buying Co. Pty,, which
takes care of the time-payment section
of the parent’s business ; Myer Emporium
(Geelong), Pty., previously Morris and
Jacobs Pty., bought in 1950; Myer
Emporium (Ballarat) Pty., which used to
be Patterson, Powell, Pty,, taken over in
1951; Myer Emporium (London) Pty.,
which looks after overseas buying for the
group. The stores are also fed from a
chain of workrooms, or production units,
largest of which is the co’s. furniture and
furnishing centre at Footscray (Vic.).
During the 1951 term the book-value
of fixed assets was written up by
£2,360,862, of which £1,750,000 was
capitalised by a one-for-one bonus share-
issue. At the same time £1,446,863 of
inner reserves which had been accumu-
lated out of earnings was disclosed, and
£1,000,000 of 4£ p.c, unsecured notes
were issued in order to finance all-round
growth. The div. dropped from 11.6 p.c.
to 7.5 p.c., but the lower rate was equal
to 15 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood before
the gift scrip-issue.
At the time doubts were whether the
gift-giving might not have been overdone.
Subsequent events have allayed these
doubts, and the co. is now in a stronger
position than before to stand up to
changes in the economic climate. Though
turnover expanded, there was a slip of
£91,145 in the declared profit for 1952.
Still, it was more than sufficient to cover
the p.c. div. The drop in net earnings
was due mainly to narrower profit mar-
gins following more competitive selling
in the general scramble for liquidity,
during which both stocks and the trade
debt were substantially reduced.
Last term began with trade sticky, but
sales improved as the year advanced, and
the co. finished up with a turnover of
£33 million (approximately the same as
for the previous year), of which over 75
p.c. was in respect of goods and materials
bought from local suppliers. Yet there
was a heartening spring of £261,361 in
the declared profit, due mainly, the chair-
man says, to quicker stock turnover,
intelligent control of exes., and lower
rate of co, taxation;
f Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.t serves, serves.*
£> £>£>£>
’60,. 382,771 9 p.e. lltp.c. 266,211 116,560 1,295,024
Prom inner reserves, £1,446,863 .. 2,741,887
Revaluation assets, £2,360,862 .. 5,102,749
Reserves capitalised, £1,750,000 .. 3,352,749
Added stock reserve, £295,000 .. 3,647,749
’51.. 442,735 9 p.c. 7ip.c. 329,335 118,400 3.761,149
Profit sale assets, £20,448 .. ..3,781,597
Tax underprovided, £38,269 ~ .. 3,743,328
’52.. 351,590 9 p.c. 7sp.c. 381,524 20,066 3,763,394
Added stock reserve,* £35,000 .. 3,798,394
Tax underprovided, £10,875 .. .. 3,787,519
’58,. 612,951 9 p.c. lOp.e. 419,961 192,990 3,980,509
* After deducting goodwill (£260,000).
f Including staff partner and employee shares.
The allowance for depreciation was
£276,721 (up £65,953), for taxation
£600,000 (up £60,000) and £35,000 (nil
previous year) was sent to a special
stock reserve, raising it to £1,000,000. The
£612,951 of profit claimed covered
the pref. and staff-share divs. (to-
gether £66,211) and 15,1 p.c. on
the £3,537,500 of ord, capital com-
pared with 8.1 p.c. and 10.5 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The div. was lifted
from 7j p.c. to 10 p.c.
The position was better than the parent’s
figures alone claimed. After deducting
outside shareholders’ interests, aggregate
declared net earnings of the group were
£804,484 (up £400,379), or enough to pay
pref. divs., etc., and show 20.9 p.c. on
ord. capital. On shareholders’ funds
(combined accounts) the year’s profit was
8.2 p.c. So the £1 million of 4% p.c. notes
and £2,145,000 of mortgage money are
earning more than their keep, and are
therefore very helpful to the ords.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a healthy
financial position, as well as adaptation of
the business to changing circumstances;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. £4,342,450 £4,342,450 £4,342,450
Reserves .. 3,761,149 3,763,394 3,980,509
Mortgages . . 1,442,500 2,173,750 2,145,000
Registered notes* 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Creditors .. 2,555,755 1,722,631 2,204,679
Tax reserve .. 687,906 467,346 600,000
Final div. .. 177,500 177,500 265,937
£13,967,260 £13,647,071 £14,538,575
Freeholds, etc. 3,988,479 8,985,993 3,961,362
Plant, etc. .. 1,214,152 1,188,427 1,075,502
Shares . . 1,278,856 1,279,802 1,519,108
Stocks .. 4,926,672 4,241,153 2,974,985
Debtors .. 2,543,139 2,934,959 3,958,879
Cash, etc. .. 16,462 16,737 1,048,739
£13,967,260 £13,647,071 £14,538,575
* Unsecured.
The reduction of £1,266,168 in stocks
suggests a better flow of goods, keen
buying and forceful' selling. The funds
thus released went mainly into book-
debts, which reflect the growth of credit
buying. Cash, etc,, benefited by
£1,032,002, placing the co. in a position
to take of any bar-
gains offering on the buying side. The
growth in shareholdings (up £239,306)
was mainly on account of the new build-
ing programme at the Geelong and
Ballarat stores. The growth in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£1,766,987, exclud-
ing shareholders) was £115,365.
The current* term promises to be better
than the one on whose heels it treads.
The f.-p. ss. ords., which had dropped to
7s. 3d. during 1953, recently sold at
11s. 5d., to return 4.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div,
basis. The £1 9 p.c. prefs. at 335. 3d. yield
5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover (parent’s
accounts) is £l2 14s. prefs. and 10s. Bd.
ords.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
'T'HE boom in wool prices has focused
attention on the investment possibili-
ties of scrip in pastoral cos. The finances
of well-established concerns in the indus-
try have been strengthened to such an
extent that investors are, now speculating
upon the possibilities of benefits in addi-
tion to dividends from current earnings,
such as a special cash dividend, or part
return of capital, or issue of bonus-scrip.
Since the issue of bonus-scrip carries a
sting in its tail, directors with long experi-
ence in the industry are likely to think
hard before making suqh an issue. Also,
since a reversal of fortune in seasons,
prices or costs, or in any combination of
them, could play havoc with a pastoral
co.’s finances, as this Squatting co.’s ex-
perience of 20-odd years ago clearly
demonstrates, the directors naturally like
to see a healthy cash or liquid balance
as a buffer against such a-contingency.
In this co.’s 70 i odd years’ experience
as a run-owner the last half-dozen of
them are easily the most glittering:
To Ee Ee-
Dec. Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
1948. . 97,672 23.3 p.c. = 56,779 40,893 76,448
’ • Surplus sale assets, £27,162 .. •103,610
War-time disposals profit, £22,851 .. 126,461
19.49.. 140,057 36.6 p.c. = 89,224 50,833 177,294
1950. .274,628 46.6 „ ~ 113,557 161,071 338,365
Loss realisation bonds, £13,692 .. 324,673
Refund wool charge, £35,459 .. .. 360,132
1951. .141,219 46.6 p.c. = 113,657 27,662 387,794
Surplus tax provisions, £13,028 .. 400,822
Surplus sale assets, £22,816 .. .. 423,638
War-time disposals profit, £22,851.. 446,489
1952.. 91,971 33.3 p.c. = 81,112 10,859 457,348
War-time disposals profit, £14,625 .. 471,973
1953. .101,882 33.3 p.c. = 81,113 20,769 492,742
During the period* covered by the table
divs. averaging 36.6 p.c. were paid from
profits averaging 58 p.c. on capital, and
reserves rocketed from £76,448 to
£492,742, which is £249,454 in excess of
paid capital. For the- preceding decade
divs. averaged 6.8 p.c., and for the decade
before that 3.8 p.c., and there was com-
paratively little to spare.
The £101,882 (up £9911) of profit
claimed last term was 41.8 p.c. on capital
compared with 37.8, 58 and 112.8 p.c. for
the three preceding years. It was written
after allowing £16,993 (up £9701) for
depreciation and £70,000 (down £44,000)
for taxation, as well as charging an
unspecified amount spentf on improve-
ments against earnings. The div, was
kept at 33.3 p.c., leaving £20,769 for
reserves, which also benefited by another
windfall (£14,625) from J.O. profits on
sales of war-time wool stocks. To date
£60,327 has been thus received from J. 0.,
and there is more to come. Never before
have pastoralists experienced such
abundance.
Early during the last term the co.
bought Burrongong, a 22,122-acre free-
hold in the eastern Riverina (N.S.W.),


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Colhns Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
, Hydraulic Power. Electric and Hydraulic
Hilts. Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street,. Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208
ALTERNATOR FOR SALE
“Alternator, comprising Gardner
Diesel 60 Horse Power Engine,
direct coupled to 50 K.V.A. Altema-
■ tor. Excellent condition. £1,300.
Inspect at 113 Palmer Street, East
Sydney. Aston Electrical Pfoducts
Pty. Ltd. Phone FA 7057.”
PROGRESS
AND
dfd
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN' LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in CP'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW80&1.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
Now! ONE Brushing with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM
REMOVES ENZYMES
' that cause Bad Breath
and Tooth Decay!
Only the Colgate way
does all three!
CLEANS YOUR BREATH
while it
CLEANS YOUR TEETH
and STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
w-
. yji
m,
wtm
mm
m
KpS«f
m
wm
.. :••■ •
sma
O
9L \
NOW COLGATE’S ACTS INSTANTLY
ON DECAY PRODUCING ENZYMES!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream instantly removes
enzyme-producing Bacteria, and it
,is enzymes that produce tooth
decay acids! But —if you really
want to prevent decay, be sure to
follow t.he Colgate way. Scientific
tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing the teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for
more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
ONE BRUSHING WITH
COLGATE’S STOPS BAD
BREATH INSTANTLY!
Your very first brushing
with Colgate’s each morn-
ing removes up to 85% of
the bacteria that cause bad
breath! Yes, scientific tests
prove that Colgate Dental
Cream stops bad breath
instantly in 7 out of 10
cases that originate in the
mouth!
BRUSHING TEETH
RIGHT AFTER EATING STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year
period showed a startling
reduction in tooth decay for
those who brushed their
teeth with Colgate’s right
after eating! In fact. X-rays
showed no new cavities
whatever for almost 2 out
of 3 people.
COL
-r„.-,:BUY r „.-,:BUY THE BIG
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE
AND SAVE 1/sd.
Gives You a Cleaner, Fresher
Mouth All Day!
AMERICA’S LARGEST—AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST-THE WORLD’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
A93G
for £186,600, and cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £189,381 net:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £243.338 £243,338 £243,338
Reserves .. 387,794 457,348 492,742
Liabilities .. 2,478 5,069 4,682
Tax reserve 155,378 107,478 86,351
Final div. .. 97,335 64,890 64,890
£886,323 £878,123 £892,003
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 108,330 292,762 488,922
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 30,025 22,462 27,568
Wool unsold 960 325 2,320
Cash, etc. .. 747,008 562,574 373,193
£886,323 £878,123 £892,003
The net addition to stations and
plant was £196,160. The book-
value of livestock increased by
only £5106, the new property
being stocked mainly by transfers
from Quantambone and Terya-
wynia stations, two big leasehold
properties in western N. S.
Wales which' are to be resumed,
or substantially resumed, in 1954
and 1955. When the books closed
more-or-less liquids, mostly cash,
exceeded outside liabilities by
£247,158, equal to 30s. sd. per
30s. share.
Following Government re-
sumptions, actual and impending,
of the co.’s big leasehold runs in
western N. S. Wales freeholds
were bought and stocked in
better-rainfall areas in the
Riverina and Victoria, thus
eliminating some of the seasonal
risk, which is such an influential
factor in this class of business.
The Victorian purchase was
Mortat, 8000 acres in the Wim-
mera, for £119,250 in 1952.
From the seasonal point of
view 1954 has got away to a
good start, there are more sheep
on the runs than there were a
year ago, there has been a good
(73 p.c.) lambing, and wool prices
are holding well. Much, of
course, will depend upon what
happens in connection with the
season and prices as the year
advances.
The market prices the f .-p. 30s.
shares at 90s. (70s. a year ago) to
return 11.1 p.c. on a 33.3 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 90s. 9d. per share. There has
been talk of the face-value of
the shares being split in halves,
making them 15s. each.
Aust. Cement, Ltd. (Melb.)
ALTHOUGH the div. has
remained steady at 8 p.c., the
price of this co.’s f.-p. £1 shares
has dropped from 575. to 38s. 6d.
in the market over the last three
years. At the lower figure the
return is 4.1 p.c., -which suggests
that better than 8 p.c. is expected.
Main reasons for the drop in
price were a cash issue of 73,269
new £1 shares at a premium of
10s. each and distribution of
£114,065 of bonus-scrip, three
for 20, early in 1951, and the
fact that a further new share-
issue, foreshadowed by the chair-
man early in 1952, has been
pushed into the background by
economic and other develop-
ments. Owing partly to improve-
ment in the position in respect of
both coal and labor, and partly to
the curbing of demand for
reasons of finance, especially in
the public sector of the economy,
production has practically caught
up with demand in the cement
industry. So, although the long-
term outlook remains encourag-
ing, especially for old-established
and efficient concerns whose
plants are moderately capitalised
in relation to output, the rate of
growth has eased for a while, at
any rate.
Australian Cement (paid capital
£947,766) and Kandos Cement
(paid capital £748,736) are two
holding cos. which are equal
partners in Australian Portland
Cement Pty. (paid capital
£2,500,000), which took over the
holding cos. plants at Fyansford
(Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.) to-
ward the end of 1929. And the
partnership has been a successful
one.
For the five years to 1934 Aus-
tralian Cement paid divs. averag-
ing 7.2 p.c., followed by three lots
of 10 p.c., four of 12i p.c., one
of Hi p.c. and then a steady
8 p.c. for the 11 years to the close
of last accounts. Here are results
for the last half-dozen years:
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1948.. 8 p.c. = 60,835 5,508 355,569
1949-66,470 8 „ „ 60,835 5,635 361,204
1950.. 66.266 8 „ „ 60,835 5,431 366,635
Reserves capitalised, £114,065.. 252,570
Share premiums, £18,317 ..270,887
Unexplained reduction, £755.. 270,132
1951.. 922 8 p.c. = 69,876 46 270,178
Share premiums, £18,317 .. 288,495
1952.. 76.773 8 p.c. = 75,821 952 289,447
1953.. 82.580 8 ~ „ 75,821 6,759 296,206
Profits have recently stepped up
with the growth in capital and
increased output of the operating
co., over whose figures the
curtain is kept drawn. Since 1943
it has sent along a regular 6 p.c.
as against 9 p.c. for the five years
before that. The margin between
its earnings and distributions is
believed to be comfortable, so
the 8 p.c. paid by Australian
Cement might be an easier matter
than this holding co.’s own
accounts suggest.
A year ago the chairman of
Australian Cement said:
Your directors have continued to
declare dividends at the rate of
8 p.c. p.a It is felt, however,
that judged by any standard this is
a modest return to shareholders, hut
it must be remembered that cement
is sold at a controlled price.
It was these remarks, and the
increased capacity and efficiency
of the operating co.’s plants, and
the satisfactory long-term out-
look in the industry, that have
encouraged the market to expect
something better than 8 p.c.
At Fyansford Australian Port-
land has modernised two big
rotary kilns and installed a third
but smaller unit, and the entire
plant has recently been produc-
ing at the rate of about 300,000
tons p.a., which is sufficient to
take care of the Victorian
market, or all but a small frac-
tion of it. The planned expan-
sion at Fyansford is now prac-
tically complete. The plant at
Kandos, which used to have a
capacity of 200,000 tons p.a., has
been modernised and costs
reduced. Together the two plants
are turning out over 500,000
tons p.a., or approximately *35
p.c. of total Australian produc-
tion of Portland cement for the
year to June 30, 1953.
At November 30 last Aus-
tralian Cement’s capital, reserves
and £5O coming to sundry credi-
tors were represented by shares
in the operating co. £1,250,000,
shares in Bates Aust. Pty., which
makes the paper bags the cement
is packed in, £3750, and public
securities and cash £30,906.
Pine Vale Mines, Ltd.
Pine Vale Mines,' Ltd., is on
the stocks in Brisbane with a
nominal capital of £500,000 in
ss. shares, of which 138,000 are
offered, payable 6d. on applica-
tion and the balance within a
couple of months. The'issue has
been underwritten at 3d. a share
by Corrie and Co., the Brisbane
brokers, who have taken 50,000
shares firm. Vendor’s considera-
tion is £30,000 cash, to be
applied in taking up 122,000
shares. The remaining 1,740,000
shares are in pickle.
The co. will thus kick cfff with
an issued capital of £65,000, of
which £lB,OOO is to be spent on
prospecting and development,
and preliminary exes., etc., are
put at £4OOO, leaving £13,000 for
working capital, after payment
of vendor’s consideration.
The co. will take over and
develop the Pine Creek copper-
mine, near Mirani, Mackay dis-
trict (Q.), from the estate of
C. F. Bagley. A small gravity-
plant, tables and some power
equipment are on the spot await-
ing installation. They are valued
at £11,050, and are included in
the purchase price. Under-
ground development (valued at
£10,500) has proved the lode for
a distance of 600 ft. and to a
depth of 160 ft. Within these
limits geologist W. D. Mott
figures there is 12,000 tons
proved ore, averaging 6.8 p.c.
copper and carrying 45,5000 z.
silver and 2340 z. gold. He thinks
the lode will persist at depth
and extend to the north-west,
giving a probable 12,p00 tons
of 7 p.c. copper ore, with pos-
sible tonnage to be proved.
The intention is to sink on
the lode for another 200 ft.,
then drive 300 ft. north and
south, and further investigate by
diamond - drilling. Consulting
engineer H. E. Munn says “the
mine has every chance of de-
veloping into an efficient and
profitable operation,” and that
“present developed ore reserves
should return sufficient profit
to retire the capital invested in
the proposed programme.” The
ore is expected to show a profit
of £5 ss. a ton with copper at
£320 a ton.
At the present stage the ven-
ture is a speculation, the future
of which will depend upon the
results of the development work
already referred, to, with reason-
able prospects of your money
back if development doesn’t
turn out as expected.
On the board are H. L. Bag-
ley, Dr. H. J. Taylor, S. H. Tait,
A. G. Frendo and J. M.
Griffin.
Uranium Mines, N.L., which
came on to the market in
October, 1953, with a million
ss. shares, payable 2s. each on
application, has just acquired
two additional uranium-pros-
pecting areas in the N.T., one
of five square miles in the Fer-
guson River basin and another
of 10 square miles in the Cul-
len River locality. The co.’s
principal prospect is afi area of
36 square miles a few miles
south of Rum Jungle. Dia-
mond-drilling and earth-moving
equipment have been bought, in
readiness for work on the vari-
ous areas when the wet season
ends. The co. is also jointly
interested with Norseman Gold
in Western Australian Uranium,
N.L., which is about to test two
likely uranium prospects (Lake
Dundas and Ravensthorpe) in
Westralia. Since too much im-
portance should not be attached
to geiger-counter reactions, re-
sults of the co.’s drilling, trench-
ing and shaft-sinking activities,
etc., will be awaited by share-
holders with interest. The scrip
recently sold at 12s.
* * *
Since mid-November last the
price of gold in European free
markets has stood at approxi-
mately $35 per fine ounce. The
premium over the official buying
price of the U.S. Treasury has
thus disappeared for the first
time since 1939. Factors respon-
sible for its disappearance have
been sales of gold by U.S.S.R.,
easing of international tension,
belief by speculators that the
official or statutory price will not
be increased in the near future,
and the easing of controls and
consequent reduction of activity
in blackmarketing. In December
and January last Russia is
reported to have sold about
3,000,000 .fine ounces of gold on
the London market. The ulti-
mate destination of this metal
was not disclosed, but the Bank
of England is believed to have
bought the bulk, if not all, of it.
The Australian Gold Producers’
Association has suspended sales
of the yellow metal on the free
markets on behalf of its
members. Since incorporation it
has sold over 2,000,0000 z. gold
for $73.9 million, or over s3i
million more than would have
been received had the metal
been sold at the statutory price.
In local currency, the average
selling-price was 17s. 9.8 d. above
the Australian standard price
of £l5 9s, lOd. a fine ounce.


Women's Letters
MELIB'OUCNC
Royal-arrival morning broke dreary,
and wet, and those who waited the night
thrbugh in the streets to get the best
vantage-points were drenched ; but soon
the sun broke through, the presage of a
day of glorious sunshine. The Queen and
the Duke of Edinburgh stepped from the
plane at a transformed Essendon airport
to be greeted by the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, who wore the uniform of the
Royal Marines, and the Premier, Mr. John
Cain.
The Queen, radiant and serene, was
a picture of youthful beauty in a Princess
coat of black-patterneo beige tie-silk. The
coat was fitted at the waist and had
a slightly-flared skirt. Black velvet
trimmed the coat-collar. Her black bali-
buntal straw bonnet had black velvet
pipings, and a tiny half-veil. Accessories
were black, and the jewels were a three-
strand pearl necklace and a diamond
lapel-brooch. The Duke wore the uniform
of Admiral of the Fleet.
After the Premier had presented mem-
bers of his Cabinet to her Majesty and
his Royal Highness the 11-mile procession
began. And what a- Royal tour of
triumph it was! Never has Melbourne
been decked in such beauty, never before
have its citizens cheered with such wild
enthusiasm, which they renewed as their
young Queen and her consort waved and
smiled to them in such friendly fashion.
In her reply to Lord Mayor Solly’s
short address of welcome at the Town
Hall, the Queen spoke in a firm, well-
controlled voice.
In St. Kilda-road were the Adult and
Child blind, and small children from the
Deaf and Dumb school, and for these the
Royal pair had a special wave. And so
at last to Government House, where for
the first time in history flew the Royal
Standard, a symbol that the Monarch is
in residence.
When the Queen and Duke of Edin-
burgh passed into Government House
the whole city was given over to the
crowds. And what a picture this staid
old city presents to the onlooker! The
fairy lights threaded through the trees,
the illuminated buildings and the floodiit
Town Hall, whose towers seem to float
in space.
Not all the merrymakers stayed within
the city. Thousands took up positions
along the banks of the Yarra and Jater
saw- the most wonderful .fireworks dis-
play this city has ever put on. Curfew
was at 11.30 p.m., and then began the
exit from the city.
. Gayest climax to the day of rejoicing
was at the Palais de Danse, Sh Kilda,
where the many loyal societies staged the
Rose of England Ball. Thousands of
roses were used in the decorations.
Focal-point in the ballroom was a large
picture of the Queen, which was bordered
with roses in every possible color. Each
small table had its bowl of roses, and on
the official table were set at intervals
clusters of crimson, white and gold roses.
Huge white urns at-the back of the table
were massed with tall spikes of white
and blue delphiniums, white, gold and
red gladioli, and all backed with’ sprays
of delicate green foliage.
On display at the ball was the address-
of-welcome by the societies, which was
given the following day to her Majesty.
Replicas of the parchment scroll were
given to each guest present. Guests
were received by Major-General F.
Kingsley Norris assisted by Mrs. H. F.
Maudsley and Brigadier R. G. H.
Irving.
Gowns worn at this ball were very
beautiful and some most striking. In
the latter category was that worn by
Mrs. James Buchanan, who was in
charge of the decorations. Hers was
of deep-red lace with a wide waterfall
at the back of black chiffon. A diamond
tiara, a family heirloom, was worn by
Mrs. F. Hobill Cole with her hyacinth-
blue and silver lame gown. Mrs. Eric
Hewitt’s gown of pale gold satin brocade
.shimmered in the light. Mrs. Frank
May’s delicate white lace gown featured
an overskirt of white tulle; jewels
twinkled on the strapless bodice of the
turquoise satin gown worn by Mrs.
Ronald Marriott; Marjorie Tatnall, who
was one of the ticket-secretaries, topped
a vefy full skirt of white organza with
a bodice, with dropped shoulder-line,
of white guipure lace. Mrs, John War-
low’s impressive gown was of white
faille; Mrs. Dick Noone’s pale-pink
%
chiffons had pink roses fpr one shoulder-
strap ; Mrs. W. J. Juhgwirth, whose
husband is State Director of the Royal
Progress, chose magnolia satin for her
gown ; and a wide-skirted gown of black
organza, which featured a band of white
organza close to the hem and outlining
the strapless bodice, was worn by Mrs.
Claudia Creswick.
Thousands acclaimed the Queen, as,
with her husband, she drove through the
streets on her way to open Parliament,
and exactly on time" the doors of
Parliament House opened to admit the
slender figure, gowned in white and with
the sunshine glinting on a high diamond
tiara. As she passed down Queen’s Hall,
she gave a fleeting glance at the statue
of Queen Victoria, and then passed into
the library.
All was still in the Council Chamber
when Black Rod entered and told the
President, Sir Clifden Eager, that her
Majesty was approaching. All stood and
the Queen entered. Not the smiling,
youthful Queen who had been welcomed
Something of the charm and grace Of Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, is apparent in this portrait taken at Government House . Hostess
to the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh while they are resident in Melbourne,
Lady Brooks has left nothing undone to ensure that the Royal couple will feet
quite at home and enjoy every possible comfort. The Governor’s lady has achieved
a high popularity because of her friendliness, her consideration for others and her
unsparing help in all good causes. She and the Governor look forward later in
the year to welcoming their daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne, and her small son
Christopher, who are at present in Malta. John Warlow picture.
the day before, but a young, unsmiling
woman, fully conscious of her high
office and the solemnity of the occasion.
The Queen, for this occasion, was
beautifully gowned in rich ivory poult,
woven with a design of golden wheat-ears
and with a posy of pale-gold wheat-ears
at one side of the waist. Swathes of the
material covered the shoulders, and the
skirt, straight in front, fell into wide
fullness at the back. In addition to her
glorious diamond tiara, the Queen wore
a three-stranded diamond necklace,
diamond earrings, and on the broad,
brilliant-blue 1 sash of the Garter was
pinned her favorite diamond bow brooch,
the Star of the Order and a family Order.
The Governor’s wife, Lady Brooks,
was in the Council Chamber, with her
niece, Heather Turner-Laing, and Mrs.
R. W. Spraggett. ;Lady Brooks’s full-
skirted frock of white pure silk was
patterned in black and her tiny hat was
of white straw.
Just before the Queen entered the
Chamber the Prime Minister and Dame
Pattie Menzies entered. They were
followed by Judges of the High Court,
who made a wonderful splash of color
with their scarlet robes and wearing their
full-bottomed wigs. Archbishop Booth,
with his scarlet robes, added to the color.
as did Lord Mayor Solly, whose black
robes were highlighted with his resplen-
dent gold chain of office. The Vice-
Chancellor of the University, Prof. G. W.
Paton, and the Moderator of the Presby-
terian Church also wore the garb of their
high offices.
The color and magnificence of the
robed men, in fact, robbed the women
present of some of their customary
glamor. Soft grey silk was worn by
Lady Eager with a pastel-green felt hat;
Mrs. P. K. Sutton, wife of the Speaker
of the Legislative Assembly, chose a
subdued grey for her frock, and her tiny
hat was of black straw. A pancake hat
of cream lace was worn by Mrs. John
Cain, the Premier’s wife, with a navy-
blue pure-silk gauze frock. Grey
organza and a small black hat were worn
by Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the
Opposition-leader. Mrs. P. L. Coleman,
whose husband is Minister for Transport,
wore the prettiest hat in the Chamber.
It was of orchid-pink satin and trimmed
with bronze beads and two long, slim,
brown feathers. Her frock was of rich-
cream ottoman silk and worn with a
matching bolero. Others present were
Lady Snow, Mrs. John Don (who had
her elder daughter Jacqueline with her
and at the reception which followed was
joined by Sari, her younger daughter),
Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke (sitting
with Sir Frank Clarke), Mrs. Robert
Hunt (daughter of the Premier and Mrs.
Cain), Mr. and Mrs. Kevin Coleman and
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Blake.
Never has Government House and its
grounds looked lovelier and never has
this Vice-Regal residence been harder to
enter than on the night the Governor
and Lady Brooks gave a ball in honor
of the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh.
Security police at the gates scanned
every invitation and looked the holder
over before passing the car through.
Again, half-way up the drive, security
police looked at the invitation, and, then
satisfied, allowed the car to go on to
the entrance to the ballroom.
Still, these measures allowed guests to
admire the changing red-and-blue lights,
which played on the white faqade of the
building, and to note the flower borders
of the drive, lighted to bring out their
colors. Later, as guests walked from
the ballroom to the fawn, they saw the
blooms on the magnolia-trees glowing
in light against the dark green of the
leaves.
The ballroom—it is longer than the
State ballroom at Buckingham Palace —•
was a magnificent sight. _ Hanging baskets
of flowers adorned the walls and at each
si e of the dais ferns and begonias were
massed. The great, glittering chandeliers
shone down on lovely gowns, on the rich
sapphire-blue velvet draperies of the
dais, and on the two huge chairs, also
covered with sapphire-blue velvet and
embroidered with golden royal .ciphers.
In all the State-rooms and on the sup-
per-tables were lovely flowers from
the Government House gardens. Jewels
and the Orders worn by the men scintil-
lated in the ballroom, and the gowns worn
were superb, but in all this opulence the
Queen reigned supreme. She was 'the
-Queen of fairy tales in her gown of white
tulle, woven with a silver thread. It was
very full-skirted and flounces were set
just below the long-waisted bodice, and
the strapless bodice was shirred. Her
Majesty wore a diamond-and-pearl tiara,
diamond and pearl earrings and a mag-
nificent diamond necklace. The brilliant
blue Garter sash was the background for
a diamond brooch with a huge pearl
hanging from it, and on the sash, at the
back of the shoulder, was pinned a
diamond maple-leaf brooch.
Her Majesty, with the Duke, the
Governor and Lady Brooks, entered the
ballroom to a fanfare of trumpets.
Guests moved aside to make a pathway
for the Queen, and then, after the
National Anthem, the orchestra played a
waltz and guests immediately danced.
In attendance on the Queen were the
Ladies Pamela Mountbatten and Alice
Egerton. Lady Pamela’s gown was of
pale-yellow tulle, spangled with silver
sequins, and she wore a diamqnd-and-
pearl tiara. Lady Alice chose hibiscus-
red tulle and lace for her gown, worn
with a diamond tiara.
The Prime Minister and Dame Pattie
joined the Queen and Duke on the dais
and her Majesty laughed and joked with
them for a few minutes. Dame Pattie
wore a diamond tiara and the ribbon of
her Order, with a gold-and-cream satin
brocade gown. A gleaming pale-gold
satin gown was worn by. Lady Brooks.
It was made with an off-the-shoulder
neckline to the fitted bodice and was
massed with glittering gold sequins, pearls
and tiny rhinestones in a flower-spray
pattern. The skirt was very full; with
her gown Lady Brooks wore a diamond
tiara.
Mrs. R. W. Spraggett, wife of the
Governor’s private secretary, wore a
gown of eau-de-Nil organza, woven with
an all-over white embroidered pattern.
Fifty yards of white tulle were used to
make the lovely gown worn by her
daughter, Anne. Heather Tumer-Laing
chose blush-pink chiffons, and Marion
McPherson also chose pink for her gown,
which was embroidered with crystals on
the bodice. Mrs. Michael Cowan, wife
of the Queen’s equerry, Wing-Commander
Cowan, R.A.A.F., was attractive in pale-
pink brocades. Susan Parker, sister of
the Duke of Edinburgh’s private secre-
tary, wore a billowy gown of white
organza. Gillian Collins, daughter of
Sir John and Lady Collins, chose white
tulle for her gown, and Marion Gengoult
Smith also chose a strapless white gown.
Rosslyn Rowell’s silver-grey brocade
frock was patterned in pink and blue.
Anne McCauley’s choice was a junior
navy nylon net, highlighted with appliqued
white flowers. Jacqueline Baillieu wore
a strapless gown of tangerine chiffon
with a very full-pleated skirt. White tulle,
with the bodice featuring the off-the-
shoulder line, was chosen by Gillian
Pain. The bouffant skirt was made over
a crinoline. Mrs. Hamilton Moreton (for-
merly Bunty McConnan) wore her wed-
ding-gown of flesh-pink satin, with its
long-sleeved bodice and bouffant skirt.
Her parents. Sir Leslie and Lady
McConnan, were also at the ball.
Just before supper, the Queen, the
Duke of Edinburgh and the Governor,
with Lady Brooks and accompanied by
the guests, left the ballroom and Went out
to the floodlit lawn. Here they watched
the band of the Royal Yacht Gothic and
the R.A.A.F. Central Band perform the
ceremonial which accompanied the beat-
ing of The Retreat,
The Queen was radiant, and spent two
hours at the ball. Although she did not
dance, now and again guests caught sight
of her tapping in time with the music.
At Flemington the Queen, accom-
panied by the Duke, drove up the
straight twenty minutes late; they had
been delayed by the crowds in the city.
When her Majesty appeared at the
course there were roars of delight from
the 70,000 people there. Even the staid
gentlemen in the members’-stand took
off their grey toppers and roared as
loudly as those on the “flat” and the
“bill.”
In the lapel of her smart, fitted love-in-
the-mist-blue wool coat, the Queen wore
the diamond wattle and tea-tree bropc
given to her by the Comrhonwealth.


.Missing Beneficiaries.
ESTATE OF GEORGE CHONG
WILL MAY FLO CHONG, the widow of
the abovenamed, or any child or children
of the said GEORGE CHONG, or any
person having any information as to their
whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria?
Divorce Notices
TO JOHN HERBERT GRIFFITHS for-
merly of Tennant Creek, N.T. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife NELLIE ELIZA-
BETH GEORGINA CATHERINE
GRIFFITHS has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of separation of the parties for a
continuous period of not less than five (5)
years there being no reasonable likelihood
of co-habitation being resumed If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within forty (40) clear days from the
date of this' publication In default of
your so doing the cause may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
Dated the 18th day of February, 1954.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
STONE JAMES & CO., of 47 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia, Soli-
citors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In- Divorce.
TO ALBERT HENRY WILLIAM BROWN
late of Goulburn.—TAKE NOTICE that,
MOLLIE BROWN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4652 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discre-
tion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 80th day of
April 1954 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSIEURS
BARKER & JONES, Solicitors, of 33-39
Hunter Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
■v-
(Aous/
IS THE TIME
TO
[ Es? ipiZzL-.
faj U«ji '
UviNC M
rf*6
PLAN No. 244
FREE
Write to WUNDERLICH
LIMITED, Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, for FREE
copy of HOME DESIGN
BOOKLET.
BUILD
But to get down to bed-
rock cost, you must
adopt timber frame con-
struction with walls—
exterior and interior—
and ceilings of sturdy
"DURABESTOS." A
•'DURABESTOS" Home
Is so suitable for
Australian conditions
and so attractive when
painted in the delightful
pastel shades popular
to-day.
u
IURABESTOS
/ ASBESTOS-CEMENT,. BUILDING .SHEETS
READILY AVAILABLE FROM LOCAL
DISTRIBUTORS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Namatjira and Co.
Namatjira is undoubtedly a
living piece of history—a sturdy
dark chunk of it, too —and it
gave one a queer sense of living
150 years'ago, at the beginning
of things in Australia, to see
him walking - into Anthony
Horderns’ gallery to attend, for
the first time, an exhibition of
his pictures in Sydney.
It was like standing with
Watkin Tench at Manly Cove
and watching the famous (vari-
ously spelt) Bennelong, the first
of our aboriginal lions, renew his
acquaintance with Governor
Phillip:
When the boat reached Manly Cove
the natives were found still busily
employed around the whale. As they
expressed not any consternation on
seeing us row to the beach, Governor
Phillip stepped out unarmed and
attended by one seaman only and
called for Baneelon, who appeared,
but notwithstanding his former eager-
ness would not suffer the other to
approach him for several minutes.
Gradually, however, he warmed into
friendship and frankness arid presently
after Colbee came up.
They discoursed for some time,
Baneelon expressing pleasure to see
his old acquaintance and inquiring
by name for every person whom he
could recollect at Sydney and among
others for a French cook, one of the
Governor’s servants, whom he had
constantly made the butt of his
ridicule by mimicking his voice, gait
and other peculiarities, all of which
he again went through with his wonted
exactness and drollery. He also
asked particularly for a lady from
whom he had once ventured to
snatch a kiss; and on being told that
she was well, by way of proving that
the token was fresh in his remem-
brance, he kissed Lieutenant Water-
house and laughed aloud.
Namatjira’s background is
still much the same as Benner
long’s, but —apart from the fact
that he had been around the
store to choose an umbrella for
his wife, and came in carrying it
wrapped in brown paper until
an attendant neatly whisked it
away ; which, after all, any white
artist might do —there was
nothing of Bennelong’s naivete
in the painter’s appearance at
Anthony Horderns’.
He was dressed in ekcellent
taste in a dark, striped suit, wear-
ing a spotless white shirt. He is
sturdy, but not fat, and with his
broad nose and genial wide
mouth, his head carried very
erectly, might have passed,
except for his darker skin, as
a Maori statesman in New
Zealand.
He seemed completely at his
ease, without either nervousness
or exuberance, made his way
deftly through the dense crowd
of society-ladies with a sprink-
ling of artists (Erik Langker,
Dobell, Douglas Pratt, John
Brackenreg of the Legend
Press); and, after an uneasy
opening-address by the Lord
Mayor, made an admirably
simple and good-humored little
speech, something like this:
“This is the first time in my
life I have ever been to a city.
I think there have been three
exhibitions of my paintings at
this gallery. Thank you, ladies
and gentlemen, for coming to
look at my pictures.”
The Bulletin escaped from
the crowd after Namatjira’s
speech and so missed what the
“Herald” • described: society-
ladies, unable to get near
Namatjira for the throng, crawl-
ing on all-fours to push their
catalogues through to be auto-
graphed. But even without that
touch, it was a fantastic opening-
day: like a combination of the
social and artistic excitement of
Dobell’s recent show and the
ferocity of a big-store bargain-
sale.
The minute the doors were
opened, half an hour before the
official opening, . the crowd
poured in and leapt at the pic-
tures ; Horderns’ announced
that no sales would be made
until after the ceremony and
advised anyone who wanted a
painting to stand by it; and
instantly, all round the walls,
the ladies sprang to the first
thing that caught their eye and
stood guard over it like tigresses
over their young. The show
was all but sold out in a few
minutes.
Of course there’s a lot of
fashion in all this; and a lot of
white artists, many of them far
superior, are put in the very
awkward position of having to
be jealous of the patronage thus
lavished on the aborigines. Bui
there is also a sense of history
in it; and one fundamental fact
seems to stand beyond reason-
able dispute: that these abo-
rigines, if not to be compared
with the best white water-
colorists, paint very well. If
the chief value of their work is
udially as a curiosity, it has, as
well, quite a considerable
aesthetic appeal.
The movement as a whole
seems to have taken a jump
forward since its last appearance
in Sydney. Edwin Pareroultja
sees the landscape in a pattern of
spots; his brother Otto sees
both the trees and the hills
striped like zebras; the third
brother, Reuben, hais some
lamentable figure-paintings but
one mythological representation
of a “Red Ochre Man” that has
some demonic promise; Walter
Ebatarinja treats the Finke
River valley in a pale, flat,
delicate style; Enos Namatjira
has some quite successful emus
and kangaroos bounding over his
clean, vivid, colors; Herbert
Raberaba has discovered a new,
deep crimson to replace the
former prevailing brick-red (or,
since Enos Namatjira Uses the
same color, someone at Her-
mannsbufg has done this bit of
pioneering]; and, with Richard
Moketarinja and the lubra
Cordula Ebatarinja falling into
line, the general impression is
of a departure from the literal
little landscapes of old into a
bold, decorative style, rich in
color, which might fairly be
called Modern Aboriginal.
Albert Namatjira keeps to his
former style and is the best of
them in broad, straightforward
landscape and in his sensitive
portraits of ghost-gums.
There’s no doubt about it:
it’s an artistic as well as a
historical phenomenon; and,
though one doesn’t want to
overrate it artistically, it is really
shocking that the N. S. Wales
National Gallery doesn’t own a
panel of these most interesting
watercolors. It hasn’t even
bothered to buy a single
Namatjira yet, and of the whole
aboriginal movement possesses
only one indifferent little sketch
by, if one remembers rightly,
Richard Moketarinja. But at
Dobell’s show the trustees spent
over £7OO.
Hjt
David Jones’s Gallery, Syd-
ney, has an exhibition of news-
paper and magazine art, and a
lot of good stuff it contains —
highly competent black-and-
white and color illustrations,
cartoons, caricatures and so
forth.. A long string of exhibi-
tors includes W. Pidgeon, Emile
Mercier, J. Phillips, Clem Seale,
G. Turton, H. Quinlan, N. Nor-
ton, Virgil Reilly, J. Johnson,
Les Dixon, Peter Harrigan,
Joliffe, Lahm and many others.
A better arrangement of the
show would have been kinder
to the artists. ' ■
Stage and Music
“The Consul”
Melbourne National Theatre’s
Royal Visit Opera season swung,
into its stride at the* Princess
with a production of Gian-Carlo
Menotti’s “The Consul,” which
was even better than the remark-
able first performance last year.
It is a vivid description of a
woman’s attempt to escape from
a dictator country via a maze
of bureaucratic institutions,
which are ready enough to help
her if only she has the papers,
but which, as she hasn’t got the
papers, can only watch her
perish, along with her baby and
her husband.
The theme, which is probably
familiar in experience to
thousands of New Australians,
is extraordinarily well worked
out by Menotti in terms of real
happenings—the death of Magda
Sorel’s baby ; the man-hunt for
her husband; the scene in the
Consul’s office, with its pathetic
group of waiting people and its
documents and visas ; the seizing
of Sorel on Consular property ;
the suicide of Magda—and in
terms of the dreams and night-
mares Mrs. Sorel has when Con-
sular offices, chairs and tables
and gas-stoves dissolve into a
dream world. > .
It is all held together by
Menotti’s bitter and lamenting
music, with its recurrent theme
of “documents and papers, docu-
ments and papers.” And add to
that Marie Collier’s magnificent
acting and her sweet and pas-
sionate singing, Justine Rettick’s
performance as the mother,
Leonard Delaney’s as the
husband, John Shaw’s as the
police-agent, and Lorenzo
Nolan’s hitting of the sardonic
headlines as Nika Magadoff, the
magician who tries to juggle his
way to freedom in the Consul’s
office.
If could be most depressing,
but it isn’t. Because of Miss
Collier’s superb performance
and Stefan Haag’s brilliant pro-
ducing it is much more exhilarat-
ing than “The Tales of
Hoffmann.”
* ❖ ❖
Farrell and Heinze
For the third concert in the
Brahms Festival Bernard
Heinze chose three of Brahms’s
finest works: the Third Sym-
phony, the Haydn Variations
and the First Piano Concerto.
The # Sydney Orchestra got
away to a good start with the
symphony. This great work is
cast in the heroic mould, with
wild bursts of passion alternat-
ing with periods of deep
resignation, and its glorious
third movement is. in effect.
a long song-without-words. The
work of the upper strings in this
section, and in the diminuendo
passages which bring the work
to a close, was exceptionally
good.
The Variations, Brahms’s
first major work for orchestra
itself, and based on the St.
Antoni Chorale theme which
Haydn had used in his B-flat
major Divertimento, are the best
of their kind ever written for
orchestra. In these nine varia-
tions Heinze showed his calibre.
He followed the differing moods
of each keenly, and pounced
upon every opportunity for
rhythmic emphasis, whilst keep-
ing the purely melodic phases
supple.
Richard Farrell was the soloist
in the Concerto, and at once
established himself as a con-
certo-pianist able to build
dynamic masses of tone whilst
seeming to remain calm. The
conflicting passions of the first
movement —conjured, it was
said, by the composer’s reaction
to the attempted suicide of his
friend and patron, Schumann —
the dignified melancholy of the
adagio, the pulsing spiritedness
of the final rondo, all were
worked-out by orchestra and
soloist with integration that
never slackened.
In his only Sydney recital —
why only one when pianists of
lesser calibre have given four
or five must remain a mystery
—Farrell played two major
works.
He began with Mozart’s A
Minor Sonata, K3lO, such a
piece as must have conjured one
of the truest sayings ; of musi-
cology: “Eternal sunshine in
music, thy name is Mozart! ”
Under Farrell’s nimble fingers
sunbeams danced through every
measure of the first and third
movements, and even in the
slow section there was the plea-
sure of gentle meditation rather
than the air of sadness. A fea-
ture of the playing was the ex-
tensive trilling, always crisp and
clean.
But it was in Brahms’s “Varia-
tions on a Theme of. Handel”
that Farrell rose to world-class
stature, for this immense work
is not simply a question of digi-
tal dexterity and technical mas-
tery—it is a potent challenge to
musical intellect. On tlie simplest
theme only eight bars long
Brahms erected 25 monumental
variations topped by a fugue of
rolling splendor. In Farrell’s
interpretation, forged with a
mature serenity, the basic
phrase-form of the theme was
never lost, whilst the general
harmonic scheme of each varia-
tion emerged crystal-clear. As
well, his rhythms had infectious
quality, and he swept through
the complexities of the great
fugue with splendid elan.
♦> * ❖
“The Tempest” is Sydney
schools’ play for this year, and
the Metropolitan Theatre
appears to have rushed through
a performance of it with that
in view. Done against a
raggedy magpie setting of black-
and-white, with Kevin Brennan’s
Prosper© rushing glibly through
his lines and stumbling over not
a few of them, and with Melpo
Zarocosta’s Miranda looking
like a ringleted Latin dancer, the
production is a pretty poor one
in jnost respects and not likely
to engender any great affection
for Shakspeare in its juvenile
audiences. Cynthia Erikson’s
Ariel is much too feminine and
Kenneth Broadbent’s Caliban,
although it has moments of his-
trionic dignity, looks rather like
a disguised Bondi lifesaver. Bill
Bain’s Ferdinand is the most
acceptable performance in the
show.
Talkies
“The Sea Around Us”
This fascinating documentary,
beautifully photographed in
Technicolor, in part records the
strange creatures of the ocean
depths—a steel ball descending
a few thousand feet made it pos-
sible. In shallower seas the
cameras have been focused on
a wide variety of aquatic life,
from salmon and turtles to seals
and gannets. The Barrier Reef,
with its many coral forms and
marvellous fish-variety, also
comes under the lenses. At
Sydney Mayfair.
♦Jt ijt
“Rob Roy”
Walt Disney, dispensing with
the cartoon-form, made this
film on incidents in the fighting
life of that stout and storied
chiel o’ the clan MacGregor
who harried the armies of
George I. There is a heap of
unconvincing sword-play and
mock-war before Rob (Richard
Todd) goes off to London to get
his pardon and back to his
starry-eyed Mary Helen (Glynis
Johns). At Sydney Mayfair.


BAILIFF
by James Hackston
OUR. first bailiff sat omin-
ously in the drawing-
room smoking a gar-
gantuan cherrywood
pipe, never spitting or throw-
ing his dead matches on the
floor, but going to the window
each time he spat, sometimes
holding his spit back until he
relit his pipe (which was fre-
quently) so that he could both
spit out the window and throw
the dead match out the window
at the same time and not have
to take his eyes off the hole in
the ceiling more often, or for
longer, than he could possibly
help, evidently fearing that
we might make off with the hole
as well as the furniture while his
back was turned.
The hole was where the rain
always came in and had drawn
a speaking likeness of Sir
George Reid, eyeglass and all,
on the plaster.
There was a glass panel
(without the glass now) that
opened from the. kitchen into
the drawing-room, and the eight
of us, not counting our mother,
kept sneaking up to the panel
to see if the bailiff still had his
eye focused on the hole, and
then reporting back to our
mother in the kitchen ; and the
tittering, giggling, sly-nodding,
prodding, nudging and silent,
secret merriment that went on
as everybody kept journeying
backwards and forwards from
the panel to our mother, from
our mother to the panel, the
shorter ones stooped over, the
taller ones crawling on their
hands and knees (so as not to
be seen or heard by the bailiff),
fingers to lips, eyebrows raised
to the highest possible point of
excitement and all whispering
ever so faintly, mysteriously and
incredulously “He’s still watch-
ing the hole!”
At the rear of the kitchen our
mother was thinking of all sorts
of ways and means (with the
exception of paying the rent)
whereby she could get rid of the
bailiff before “he comes home”
{“he” was our father), he not
knowing that pur mother had
not been paying the rent and
had used the rent-money to pay
off the arrears due on the time-
payment furniture, having used
the money she should have
paid-off the time-payment fur-
niture to pay the arrears due on
the time-payment sewing-
machine.
Naturally enough, we all
hoped that our battalions of
aggressive bugs that were in
residence beneath all the floor-
ing boards would come out and
crawl all over the bailiff. But
hope alone is not enough to
bring bugs up from beneath a
floor; and anyway, our bugs
had got used to feasting on us
at night-time only, when we
were too wrapped in deep slum-
ber to fight them, and the over-
fed gourmands never had
occasion to come out in the day-
time for a meal, so our “first”
did not come in contact with
their odious aroma and feel
forced to neglect his duty and
quit our happy home,
'T'HEN our mother had a
brain-wave: the gentleman
(gentleman —for the time being)
might be a Mason, and if we
could let the gentleman know
somehow that our father was a
Mason, he might go away.
My sister, Theodosia, then
made a suggestion that if she
pegged our father’s Masonic
apron out on the clothes-line,
right outside the window where
the temporary gentleman was
still spitting and throwing his
dead matches out, and pretend
to be cleaning it, then he’d
know our father was a Mason;
but our mother said sadly, and
artistically, that our father had
burnt his lovely, gold-on-parch-
ment with blue-corded fringe
Masonic apron the time she d
told him the truth about his
father, about his mother, about
his two sisters and about his
three brothers, and he’d then
said cruel things about her
father, about her mother, about
her six sisters, and about her
nine brothers.
This was a bit of a blow to
Theodosia, who had it on her
conscience for letting our “first”
into our happy home. But how
was Theodosia to know, when
she gingerly opened the front-
door only a few inches to tell
him in a most crestfallen and
dejected manner that should
have brought a mist before his
eyes, that our mother had just
been taken away to hospital,
that, while she was still holding
the door fast and getting ready
to slam it, he had, without her
suspecting it, slyly and firmly
placed one giant, thick-soled,
adamant, determined - looking,
forceful, come-to-stay toe of
his massive boot far enough in-
side the front-door to prevent
that door from ever being shut
again unless he removed that
bulldog-looking toe of his boot;
after which, of course, the rest
of it and its mate entered
politely, but nonetheless firmly
and, with their heavy advancing
tread bringing some more loose
plaster down in the hall, their
owner then took on his silent,
patient vigil.
Mother then mentioned that
a policeman had once locked
father up for being a little the
worse for liquor but had let
him out, so our father had said,
after he’d given the policeman
the Masons’ password.
And now our .mother fixed her
eye on the hole in the kitchen
ceiling where the/ rain also
came in and, instead of por-
traiture, had gone in for carto-
graphy and drawn a map of
Australia on the plaster, and
might have drawn one of
Tasmania, too, at the bottom, <
but for the fact that there was
no more plaster there to draw
on, the plaster thereabouts hav-
ing rained, down on us like a
hailstorm once when we were
having our tea, one lump hit-
ting our father on the head so
hard that he promised every-
body he’d sue the owner, the
agent and the builder —this,
while our mother was diligently
and sympathetically removing
The pieces of plaster out of our
plates of stew so that we could
go on eating our evening meal
in peace and comfort. When
we’d all settled down again, our
father found a whopping dough-
boy in his stew, that hadn’t been
made with flour, or was soft and
spongy-like, or of the recog-
nised shape and form of proper,
authentic doughboy, which our
mother had forgotten to remove.
Whereupon our father, who was
pernickety about his food, had
to have bread and the plum-jam
that had all the stones in it for
his tea and got one of the stones
stuck in his throat, then swal-
lowed it, went outside and put
hi§ finger down his throat,
failed to bring it up and all the
rest of the evening said he
could feel a pain somewhere in
his stomach and that perhaps
he’d better make his will.
After staring at her hole in
the ceiling for a long time.
Mother now looked away very
thoughtfully and began, as one
who had just been taken to hos-
pital, to tiptoe up and down the
kitchen, on the far side, and
Author’s Note: This is a
story of days when bailiffs
were frequent uninvited
guests of the poor, Free Trade
and Protection a subject for
argument, and The Bulle-
tin’s Yes-No Reid a well-
known figure of the day: a
story of part-fact and part-
fiction wherein this bailiff sat
in my ,own home and the
“Louis or a Leslie” is myself.
very close to the wall, even
brushing it as she passed to and
fro, so that the temporary
gentleman wouldn’t see or hear
her.
Then she suddenly stopped
perambulating up and down and
said suddenly, and a little
learnedly, that she thought the
Masons’ password was “How’s
your grandmother?’’ and that it
might be a good idea if I, a
young man, really, were to go
into the room where fie was, as
if looking for something, and
say to him “How’s your grand-
mother?”
Here Theodosia bobbed up
again* seeing another oppor-
tunity to salve her guilty con-
science about letting him in and
began to tell me exactly what I
had to do —enter the room non-
chalantly, carelessly, uninterested-
like, respectful without be-
ing subservient, not familiar, a
little dignified, and while pre-
tending to be searching for the
something catch his eye.
“It’s busy with the hole,” I
chipped in.
But. she went on that I was
to make conversation about the
weather, ask him did he like
the new shop on the corner, wait
my chance, then say quite
naturally, but meaningly—hav-
ing caught his eye, “How’s
your grandmother?” then, if
he gave me a sort of understand-
ing 100k —well, he’d be a Mason
and I was to say that my father
was a Mason.
“What if he’s not a Mason?
And what if he hasn’t got a
grandmother?” I asked.
“Don’t be a coward,” said
Theodosia.
“You do it then,” I said.
“I can’t,” said Theodosia,
“I’m not a man. Females are
not supposed to know anything
about Masons and what they say
and do.”
OTHER then looked at her
own hole in the ceiling again,
and, after a serious scrutiny,
started padding up and down
beside the wall again; after
which she said, “You are the
son of a Mason, and the son of
a Mason has a name.” Then,
after another squint aUher hole,
“I’m not sure, but I think you
are a Louis or a Leslie, or some-
thing like it, and you might be
entitled, as such, to find out if
the gentleman is a fellow-Mason
of your father’s.”
“All right,” I said lamely,
mollified and secretly pleased to
hear that I was a bit of a some-
body after all and had a name of
some sort in the Masonic world.
Theodosia was having a
great time now. She’d always
fancied herself as a bit of an
actress, and, before our cat
could have kittens, she was pre-
tending to be the bailiff, sitting
in a chair bolt upright and
screwing up one eye darkly and
suspiciously at our mother’s
hole in the ceiling, just as the
temporary gentleman in the
drawing-room was still doing.
Then she got up and, with a
harsh, grating sound, spat out
the door and then came back to
the chair and stared fiercely at
the hole again, the family quietly
splitting their sides at her, so
overjoyed were they at their
sister’s lifelike impersonation of
the temporary gentleman in the
drawing-room.
I was brought into the busi-
ness next and informed by the
great actress that I had to prac-
tise saying “How’s your grand-
mother?” to her so that I
would be able to say it naturally
to the gentleman. So, after
messing about a bit, I said to her
just for fun, “How’s your grand-
father?” instead of “How’s
your grandmother?” at which
the most appreciative audience
nearly fell over each other with
suppressed joy, skipping about
lightly like rabbits in great
glee. They hadn’t had such a
funny day ever before.
After I’d said my line pro-
perly I went upstairs and brushed
my hair and straightened my
tie a bit to try and make myself
look as near as I could to what
a Louis or a Leslie should look
like, then came down-stairs to
play my part in the drawing-
room.
The enthusiastic audience had
now moved from the kitchen to
the panel between there and the
drawing-room, the shorter ones
reaching up to have their ears
as near the opening as possible
without being seen, the taller
ones stooped down just enough
to not be seen and yet have their
ears as near as possible to the
opening, some of them grinning
at me, others squinting and
making the funniest faces they
could think of as I went past
and, at the same time, in the
faintest of whispers, some say-
ing “How’s your grandmother?”
and others whispering raptur-
ously “How’s your grand-
father?”
And there was such secret
squeezing and pushing and
elbowing to get a better hearing
of the entertainment; such a
jostling for position, with our
mother, who was in hospital,
now most cautiously advanced
from the outer and standing
well up at the side of the panel,
her back flat up against the
wall, shoulders well back, head
bent towards the panel, and, as
I passed her to make my en-
trance in the door of the draw-
ing-room; which was round the
corner, also prompting me
with her lips, “How’s your
grandmother?”
TI7ELL, when I reached the
’ * door where I was to go in
(go on, really), I pushed it open
slowly and stood just inside the
room, waiting for*the temporary
gentleman to stop looking at the
hole, as I thought he would, and
turn round and look at me. But
he didn’t. He just kept on look-
ing at the hole and so I, not feel-
ing like doing anything else at
the moment, also looked up at
the hole. And there we were,
both of us, not moving, just star-
ing at the same hole
But as I stood there in the
silence, I noticed that only his
right eye was looking at the
hole and that his left eye was
sort of looking towards the
window, but, at the same time,
slyly taking me in on a slant-
like and that, by the look of it,
it was suspicious of my presence
and had me under secret obser-
vation. And suddenly I knew
what was in his mind; I’d
sneaked in to try and take the
little table out, which was beside
me, and which my grandmother
had given to my mother—our
best piece of furniture.
Standing there, I felt guilty
now, and the more I looked at
his cold eye watching me on the
slant, just as a cat sits and pre-
tends it is not looking at the
mouse it has caught, so I felt
like a mouse. And then, auto-
matically, I found myself out-
side the door again, without
opening my mouth, in the pas-
sage, and then walking past the
family, all staring at me, their
eyes open wide, my mother dis-
appointed - looking, Theodosia
surprised-looking; and when I
got to the kitchen all my
brothers and sisters clustered
round me in a ring, poking their
fingers at me, pulling my coat,
pressing in on me, pushing about
me and all asking at the one
time “Why didn’t you say
‘How’s your grandmother?’ to
him”; and then each one of
them promoted himself or her-
self to the part and, in all kinds
of whispers, ways, sharps and
flats, said “How’s your grand-
mother?” to show me how
they’d have said it had they had
the chance,
“A Louis or a Leslie!” Theo-
dosia sniffed.
at this very moment the
woman who lived at the
back came in our back-gate with
her baby in her arms and, as
she’d had bailiffs, too, went
into technical details about the
art of dealing with bailiffs, dur-
ing which learned discussion she,
much to our mother’s discom-
fort, gave full details of the
occasion on which our “first”
had taken possession of her
place and how, on that tempes-
tuous day, her Alf had taken his
coat off, his teeth out (both
plates), spat on his hands and
charged into our “first” like the
Charge of the Light Brigade,
with the result that her Alf was
taken to court, fined, and bound
over to “keep the pieces,” as
she said, for twelve months.
While this upsetting informa-
tion was being poured into our
mother’s ears, Theodosia took
the baby in her arms and, still
hoping to salve her conscience
in some way or other regarding
letting “ours” in, carried the
baby past the panel between the
kitchen and the dining-room
so that our “first” could not help
seeing the baby.
A strange and wonderful
thing happened. Our “first”
actually took his eyes, or, any-
way, one eye off his hole and,
with this eye, smiled at the baby
and said, “Hullo, baby! ” and
the baby broke into his dribble
and gurgled “Goo, goo,” and
then our “first” said, “Goo,
goo,” too, and Theodosia, now
scenting success with our “first,
bravely and valiantly walked
round to the dining-room door,
kicked it open and said to the
baby, “Say hullo to the gentle-
man, Bubsie.”
It’s a pretty picture now, with
our “first,” the baby and Theo-
dosia all wreathed in smiles and
friendliness, our “first” relaxing
his hard vigil and, feeling at
ease and, off the chain as it
were, now cleaning his gargan-
tuan cherrywood pipe and,
having cleaned his gargantuan
cherrywood pipe, now, as a big
dog lets a child pull its ears,
holding his big fat hand, with
all the fingers wearing a thicjv
black fine of mourning on each
nail, out to the baby to play
with, which the baby does and
soon begins to suck at one oi
the big fat fingers.
Here, while this idyllic and
sweetly-simple scene was set,
Theodosia patted the babys
head and the baby looked up
lovingly at Theodosia,
“I bet he’s fond of his
mother,” said our “first.”
“Oh, yes,” said Theodosia
innocently. Then to the baby,
“Say |Vlum, Mum.” . . f
At this point 'Theodosia s l £lt


hand suddenly became more
open to the eye, our “first” sud-
denly saw that Theodosia’s left
hand had no wedding-ring on
it, and, on the moment, an
almost sad and sympathetic ex-
pression came over his features
as if remembering some mother
somewhere whose daughter had
got into trouble and brought
distress and suffering to herself
and family.
He looked about the room as
if seeing it for the first time,
took stock of the shabbiness, the
dilapidated sofa, and stood up
as if sensing the trouble our
mother had been through and
looked as if about to leave our
happy home when, suddenly,
the baby gave a loud cry and,
while it got redder in the face,
yelled and coughed and splut-
tered violently to spit out the
nicotine it had sucked off our
“first’s” big fat finger ; at which
its mother came tearing franti-
cally into the room, grabbed up
her baby, cooed “Mother’s
darling baby. My darling
baby” and ran out into the
kitchen with it, leaving our
astonished “first” staring at
Theodosia.
It is not a friendly picture now.
All friendliness towards the girl
who had sinned has disappeared.
All compassion for a suffering
mother has disappeared and,
with Theodosia back on her
virginal pedestal again, he again
sits stiffly in his chair, again
transfers his cold and vigilant
stare to the hole, and Theodosia,
sensing and
hostility, leaves him to his
original, remorseless occupancy
of our happy home, Theodosia
herself wearing an expression
of complete wonder and mysti-
fication.
DY this time the long sad
shadows of evening were
beginning to sneak across our
little street, and it would not be
long before our father would be
arriving home. And now all the
fun had begun to ebb out, leaving
us wondering, waiting and watch-
ing for the arrival of the lord
and master of our home.
As a young man who believed
in being prepared for eventu-
alities, first of all I opened the
backdate wide for egress and
ingress—for police, father,
mother, Theodosia, bailiff, any
member of the family, friendly
neighbors who might feel like
joining our side in the fray, of
any neutral sightseers who might
appreciate such an advantage.
Next I opened the side-gate and
left that open for similar
reasons ; but this was mostly for
our own convenience. This
gate’s entrance led to and past
the drawing-room window and
to the door that opened into the
kitchen. This door was opened
wide, too.
With this side-gate and
kitchen-door open, then our
father would walk right through
and into the kitchen, unham-
pered, without taking up enough
time to enable him to see the
bailiff through the window,
would enable our mother
to get to him quickly, jostle him
into the kitchen, corner him and
there break the bad news to him.
But I forgot about the bailiff
spitting and throwing his dead
matches out the window and, as
soon as the lord and master of
our home got to the open gate
and was about to enter it, there,
before his very eyes, were dead
matches galore, and spots of spit
galore, and he stopped suddenly
and stared at the little dry pools
of spit and the dead matches.
“Ha, ha! ” said he humorously,
evidently having come home in
a good humor, “a male visitor;
and he must have had a nice long
chat, too, eh? Now, who could
he be: a handsome beau for my
beautiful daughter Theodosia or
a secret lover of my wife’s?” •
He began to count the
matches, first one at a time, then
two at a time, slowly, until he’d
finished counting the lot, then
said “Sixty matches —say, one
match to every five minutes,
that’s three-hundred minutes, a
five-hours’ gossip— must have
been a most interesting conver-
sation?”
Like hidden thunder, a deep,
not challenging, but at the same
time authoritative, heavy, deep,
bass cough in the drawing-room
spoke its solemn message and,
before that same cat of ours
could have her kittens, and we
expected them at any immediate
moment, our mother firmly (for
her), and quickly, ushered, or
rushed, our flabbergasted lord
and master into the kitchen and
then out into the wash-house and
shut the door.
Priscilla’s and my former
appreciative audience now stood
solemnly by while that great
dramatic actress climbed up on
to the kitchen table, from which
angle she could get a view
through the fanlight, and acted
for us a replica of the drama
that was going on in the closed
wash-house and, by her gesticula-
tions or, to be more correct, her
clever miming or dramatic tech-
nique, the audience and myself
gathered that our mother had
her hands placed lovingly and
entreatingly on her lord and
master’s shoulders in the true
spirit of solicitation.
Then the wash-house door
opened, Theodosia hopped down
off the table just in time, the lord
and master washed his face and
hands in the troughs, combed his
haif, especially combed his full
moustache, walked quietly into
and through the kitchen without
seeing us, as we now all stood to
attention, a sober-looking cluster
watching him proceeding to the
drawing-room. Soon we heard
the drawing-room door close
tight and the clock up on the
mantelpiece in the kitchen ticking
louder than we’d ever heard it
tick before.
CO we all stood, straining our
ears for a breath of sound
from that room and, with what
seemed like long centuries of
silent time passing by unevent-
fully, we became restive and
impatient and, first one and then
another, -began to advance
craftily and noiselessly towards
the drawing-room door and the
space between the two rooms.
There was a contagious feeling
of excitement in the air now, a
sleuth-like interest in the pro-
ceedings had taken hold of the
younger members of the family
and the more technical ones were
down on their bellies with their
ears glued to the two rat-holes
that gave entrance and exit be-
tween the drawing-room and the
kitchen, hoping thereby that all
conversation in the next room
would flow out through the rat-
holes and into their receptive
ears.
While these different opera-
tions were being put into effect,
the dauntlfess Theodosia had
fixed her ear to the keyhole of
the dining-room door to pick
out some verbal morsel from
among the deep, quiet mumble
of words that droned within the
room. Then she came skipping
back into the kitchen, light as a
feather, her face lit up with
welcome news.
“I heard the word ‘free’,” she
said.
“Are you sure?” our mother
asked hopefully.
“Yes,” said Theodosia. “And
the bailiff said it.”
Our mother breathed a great
sigh of relief. “Well,” she said,
“he must be a Mason all right;
if not, why would he be saying
‘free’?” She sighed contentedly
again. “And that’s why they are
so quiet and not quarrelling.”
Then wishing to be doubly sure.
“You didn’t hear anything like
‘Mason,’ too, did you?”
“No,” said Theodosia. “I just
heard that bit.”
Theodosia looked „reproach-
fully at me. “And if you’d said
‘How’s your grandmother?’ it
might have been all right, and
he’d have gone away and our
father would never have known
that he’d been here.” Another
accusing look. “If a Mason’s
daughter could be a Louis or a
Leslie, Vd go in now and see if
they are real friendly and talking
in a sort of way like Masons.”
“Yes, you could go in and make
sure for me,” said our mother,
looking at me. “I’d like to know
for sure if everything’s going all
right in there.”
“All right,” I said, and I then
left on my second mission to the
drawing-room.
'T'HEY were sitting as still as
A lambs, both now as if staring
fixedly at the hole in the ceiling,
but from the position in the room
in which I was now standing, I
could see plainly, by following
the direction of the bailiff’s eyes,
that he hadn’t been looking at the
hole all day, evidently, as \ve’d
all thought, but had been studi-
ously studying the speaking like-
ness of Sir George Reid; and I
could also .see that my father was
not, as I had first thought, ’look-
ing at the hole either, but was
also diligently studying the
speaking likeness of Sir George
Reid.
So keenly taken up with it were
they that they had not noticed
my entry into the room and, as
the scene before me seemed to
be of a most brotherly and
fraternal nature and contained
not the least element of unfriend-
liness or hostility,-there seemed no
reason or need for me to stay.
•
but, instead, a good and urgent
reason why I should, at once,
retire from the peaceful atmos-
phere ; and, as noiselessly as I
had entered, so I departed to
convey to my mother and family
the peaceful information I had
garnered for them.
They were waiting for me like
a bunch of people -at a tram-
stop.
“What was the gentleman
doing when you went in?” our
mother asked anxiously.
“Nothing,” I said.
“Nothing! ” she repeated.
“What was your father doing
then?”
“Nothing.”
“Nothing!” she again repeated.
“Well, what was the gentleman
looking at?” «
“The likeness of Sir George
Reid on the ceiling,” I said.
“The likeness of Sir George
Reid on the ceiling!” she
repeated. “What was your father
looking at?”
“The likeness of Sir George
Reid,” I said.
THEN the handle of the
drawing-room door turned,
the sound of boots in motion
came to us, echoed in the bare
hall and receded towards the
front-door with that slow,
dawdling, stop, move, move,
stop, halting, lingering sound that
belongs to boots belonging to a
host and his guest when both
host and guest have enjoyed each
other’s company, the one loath
to leave, the other loath to see
the other go, and then, like most
hosts and guests, a hundred and
one things come to the mind to
talk about now they are parting,
such interests come to light be-
tween them that, each time they
shake hands, another deluge or
talk swamps them and they again
stand and talk and then shake
hands and say good-night all
over again.
And so, eventually, the front-
door banged and our lord and
master came down the passage
and into the kitchen where we
were all waiting expectantly.
“Well, what do you think of
that?” he said. “Didn’t I get a
surprise.”
Family silence here.
“Little did I guess that I’d
come home and see him sitting
in my home.” ....
Family silence still.
“Confrere of mine.”
“You know the gentleman
then?” our mother asked.
“Know him!” said our father.
“We’re brothers in the move-
ment.”
Our mother nodded knowingly
to Theodosia.
“He’s well up in it, too.”
Theodosia nodded knowingly
to our mother.
Then our mother, now feeling
on safer ground, asked if the
gentleman said anything about
the rent and whether he’d be
coming back again ; and in reply
to this our father said that Tom
would not be worrying us, any-
way, not for a long time, and by
that time something could be paid
off the back rent.
“His name is Tom, is it?” our
mother asked.
“Yes, Tom” said our father.
“We’ve had many a meeting.”
Our mother looked at
Theodosia.
Then our father went on to
tell us that Tom couldn’t get over
the lifelike picture of George
Reid up on the ceiling, Tom
said that he couldn’t take his eyes
off it all day, it fascinated him
so, almost unbelievable it was
that a man should come into a
house, as part of his duty, and
then, before his eyes, drawn as
if by human hand, a picture the
living image of the man he
always followed.
Another family silence.
Then our father said that the
fact that his own home had such
a strange and unbelievable speak-
ing likeness of the man they both
followed had cemented their
friendship more than ever.
More silence.
“I’m meeting him tomorrow
again, on my way home from
work, where we always meet.”
“And where’s that?” our
mother asked surprisedly.
• “At the corner hotel,” said our
father, “where we both often
down the Protectionists.”
“At the corner hotel where you
both down the Protectionists!”
our mother repeated, more
surprised than ever.
“Yes,” said our father. “I’m
against Protection; and he’s
against Protection.”
“Against Protection?” said
our mother. Then she looked our
father bang in the eye and said,
“He’s a Free”
But our father, in full voice,
broke in on her quiet way of
speaking and, finishing the word
for her, said “Trader. Yes, he’s
a Free-trader, like I am.”
SO ended an entertaining day
and, as if to put a little
parsley round it, as it were, or
embellish it, round it off, like, in
a manner most fitting to the
occasion, Theodosia, the family’s
entertainer, rang down the
curtain amidst much laughter by
saying to our mother, “Well,
Priscilla, there’s one thing you
can be thankful for, anyway:
Your husband will not be taken
to court and bound over to —-
keep the pieces.”
VARIOUS VERSE
A DOG TO TIE UP
If the sea must beat my door, hungry animal,
Poor dog with its tail, rapping a tin with its tail
For two meals a day, two bites at the beach.
Remember, it, has no words to frame its speech;
But speaks cunningly nevertheless.
I am at no loss itsi meanings to guess;
And to understand the great fawning beast
Is to possess more than land—a guest.
And, who has a guest at his door, has
All wisdom for his learning; has
The sea, as he says, “sighing, or storming,” has
Another’s problems to exclude his own; has
The ocean at his door to deal with, has
A dog to tie up each tide—his dinghy; has . . .
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
THE NIGHT OF THE MOTHS
The giant moths like sparrows! So many drowned
On the stony mountain struggling out of the ground,
So many battered from they air by the wind and the storm
'Where the black rain beats on Bindo; yet still they swarm
From the tunnel in the clay, from the dark wet undergrowth.
Through the night and the trees, great whirring moth by
moth.
The midnight hides their long clear rainy wings,
Their bodies of gold; blindly the black earth flings
Its passion of blind black life to meet the rain;
And one with the storm, with the trees as they shudder and
strain,
One- with the mountain shambling it§ way through the night.
Up the dark ridge they fly, and out of sight.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
A SPELL FOR SPEAKING
Stay close, stay near, oh do not walk away;
A single step may prove to be too far.
Who knows how long even one brief move may be
From the untrodden, unmapped place where you now are?
Surely, surely, there are not any arms
Of length and strength and love enough to hold
Should you essay the treacherous frontiers of
This safe charmed country’s soft and secure fold.
If you do venture, rash, unheedingly,
No power can bring you back. That step is such
The {and you left will always be in your view
But, surely, surely, ever beyond your touch.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING
DIVORCE
The hours they break were numbered, not in heaven,
but told in Hell, accounted in the flames
extending lethal fingers to their seven-
day weekly madness on a bed of shame.
Across the granite silence of grained wood,
unwavering Justice watches while their eyes
annul affections ahd inter the good
beneath the tax of glances that despise.
Love was not made to function in these walls:
thus they may frozen fix their faces, look,
unmindful of a single joy, to ills
alone inscribed upon the past’s closed book.
They will unwrite the pages, strip, burn out
the earlier ecstasy that took in charge
their senses—chained the values of devout
lovers to loveless law, which writes crime large.
Affection takes its entrails, wrings them out
fingers soiled, cold in the public place,
and hangs adulterous garments like a shout
of published names to air their sheets’ disgrace.
Headlines and facts, like scars (and Love), must heal,
though it sap strength, destroy the pride that came
once beautiful with faith, but tasted steel,
and cast their scriptured kisses to the flame.
N.Z.
LOUIS JOHNSON.


SOMETHING
WORTH HAVING
By A.C. Headley.
COMING along the street
towards the factory, she
saw Ivy and immediately
the pleasant warmth of
the morning was gone. For a
moment she held the idea of
hurrying back home, making
some excuse to her mother, and
ridding herself of the anxiety
that would be with her all day.
Against this was the thought of
waiting twenty minutes at the
end of the street for a tram
and of losing time from the
factory.
She walked on, trying to re-
call the details of her departure.
With a vague hopefulness she
thrust her hands into the pockets
of her factory overalls, but they
were empty. Along the street
by the factory entrance, Ivy had
stopped to wait for her.
“Hello, Ive,” she said, and
was aware that she was oddly
breathless.
Ivy’s thickly - painted 1$ p s
spread themselves flatly against
her teeth.
“Did you bring it?”
“I forgot.” She felt awkward
and ill at ease, and she knew
that her face had lost a little of
its color. “I thought about it
right up to the last minute, then
I came away in a rush.”
Ivy’s mouth pouted.
“You’re a nice one, you are.
A person lends you a thing and
that’s about all you think of
it.” Her voice was a thin whin-
ing complaint. “I promised it
to Sheila, too. She’s got a type-
writer and she’s gonna get some
copies done.”,
“I’m sorry,” she said. “If
you like I’ll bring it over to
your place tonight.”
“S’pose it’ll have to do.”
They went into the factory
together, clocked in, and moved
along the alley to their tables.
By the time they reached them,
Ivy’s first petulance had evapor-
ated.
“What’d you think of it,
Mary? How’d you like it?”.
There was an avid obscenity in
her attitude.
“It was pretty hot,” Mary
said.
“I bet it’s the hottest thing
you ever seen.”
BEHIND them a motor
whirred, then settled into a
steady hum. Belts began to slap
and noise filled the room. She
turned away from Ivy and
threw the conveyor into gear.
White cakes of soap began to
move along the bench in front
of her. She reached out, separ-
ated a faulty cake from the
others, and dropped it into the
bin by her side.
The moment she started, there
was time for thinking, and she
was back in her room once
more, trying to remember the
details of her departure. But
the only point that came with
clarity was the fact that she had
left Ivy’s letter under the leg
of the alarm-clock. She was
sure now that there was no
possibility that she had removed
it, because there had been no
reason for the action. All she
had intended was to put it in
the pocket of her overalls and
return it to. Ivy.
Now she thought, with a sick
feeling in her stomach, of *the
well-worn, folded sheet of paper
conspicuous under the leg of
tfye alarm-clock. Some time
during the day her mother
would go into the room to fol-*
low the routine of her tidy-
ing-up, and she knew that the
letter would have no chance of
getting past her mother’s curi-
osity. That was too much to
expect. Her face was warm,
and she touched fingers against
her cheek.
She turned a few cakes of
soap on the conveyor and was
suddenly trying to comfort her-
self, thinking of other things
she had done automatically,
things like the locking of doors
that became a worrying appre-
hension until the proof of the
action was established. Immedi-
ately this was dulled by the con-
viction that nothing like this
had happened, and the letter
was sitting up, waiting for her
mother to make the discovery.
She was sorry now that she
had ever known about the let-
ter. On Monday she had seen
it travelling around among the
girls, and, in the canteen, she
had heard the giggling com-
ments, watching them become
playfully secretive when the
boys wanted to know what it
was all about. Yesterday after-
noon Ivy had brought the letter
along to her.
“You’d better see it,” Ivy
said. “Just about everybody
else has.”
“What is it?” -
“Take a look and find out
for yourself,”
She had taken it then, and
thrust it into the pocket of her
overalls. Ivy looked at her
doubtfully.
“You can’t keep it,” she
cautioned. “I just give it to you
to take a look at.”
AFTERWARDS, she realised
that she hadn’t wanted to
give Ivy the satisfaction of see-
ing her read it.
“Don’t worry,” she said, “I’ll
let you have it back as soon as
I get a chance to look at it.”
Ivy was still uncertain.
“At any rate, don’t lose it.
It’s the only one I’ve got.” She
jerked her head across the floor.
“Danny Ewens give it to me.”
He was watching them, grin-
ning, knowing what it was all
about. She turned her head
quickly away, aware of the
sudden warmth of her face. She
had no time for Danny. He was
smug, sure of himself, proud of
his reputation. A long time ago
he had asked her to go to a
dance with him, and she had
left him in no doubt as to where
he stood with her. He had
shrugged his shoulders.
“Suit yourself. It’s your
funeral.”
With his eyes on her, the
thought of the letter in her
pocket was an acute embarrass-
ment, For a moment she had
the impulse to hand it back to
Ivy, but, with Danny watching,
\
it was an admission of his influ-
ence on her.
“I’ll give it to you back in
the morning, Ive.”
She read it that night, lying
on her bed in the narrow room,
with the thought of Danny
Ewens in the back of her mind.
She was surprised to discover
that she found a peculiar excite-
ment about the letter. She was
disgusted, but she read it half-a-
dozen times before she turned
out the fight.
Now she was thinking of it
held firmly by the leg of the
alarm-clock for her mother to
find.
The morning wore away with
little stabs of worry. A head-
ache came and stayed with her
even after she’d got some
aspirins from the forewoman.
When she went to the can-
teen for lunch, Danny Ewens
dropped into the seat across
from her. He looked at
her across the table and grinned,
and immediately she had the
absurd feeling that she was
sharing a dirty joke with him.
He was cool and sure of him-
self.
“There’s a good hop on to-
night,” he said.
“I hope you enjoy yourself,”
she said coldly.
Somehow the afternoon was
gone at last. In the tram she
tried to comfort herself with the
thought that the worry was un-
necessary, that her mother had
not discovered the letter, or, if
she had, had not been inter-
ested enough to open-out the
soiled folds and read it. The
possibility existed, too, that she
could have slipped it into a
drawer for safekeeping.
THE moment of stepping-in
through the front door was
an evaporation of hope. Her
mother’s mouth was a tight
bulge over her teeth.
“Your father wants to see
you, my lady. He’s got some-
thing to say to you.”
“Why . . . what’s the matter?”
She was abruptly aware of the
dryness of her mouth. At the
same time, with a shocked
incredulity, she realised that her
mother was enjoying the mo-
ment. There was a peculiar
satisfaction in her mother’s
manner.
“You’ll find out soon enough
what’s the matter when your
father gets home,” her mother
said.
“Where is he?” she asked
flatly.
■“Your father’s gone up the
street. You better go up to
your room till he comes.” She
gave a loud sniff. “I don’t want
you helpin’ me. I’ll lay the table
meself.”
The letter was gone. The in-
stant the door had opened, her
eyes had flicked to the alarm-
clock standing on the chest-of-
drawers. Nevertheless, she
opened the drawers and looked
through them quickly.
Now there was nothing to do
but wait for her father. She
walked across to the window
and looked down into the thin
backyard. Kids were playing in
the lane and the sound of their
voices made her feel remote and
lonely. She took off her overalls
and dropped down onto the
bed. She lay back and her eyes
fixed themselves on the brown
spot on the ceiling where the
rain had come through. She
was surprised to discover that
she had ceased thinking about
the letter. She closed her eyes,
and, because she had discovered
that she was no longer thinking
of it, the thought of the letter
was back in her mind. Sud-
denly, she was remembering the
words and phrases and seeing
her father reading through it.
She heard the clock downstairs
strike six.
At half-past six she heard the
sound of the front door. Thick-
soled boots clattered along the
hallway, and then her mother’s
thin voice was telling him that
she was home.
tTE came into the room with-
out knocking and his hand
reached out to flick the switch
and flood the room with fight.
He stood there a moment look-
ing at her, without speaking,
and she knew that he had been
drinking.
His eyes were flat and with-
out fife. He was a big man, but
flesh had grown around his face
without touching the sharpness
of his features. A small mouth,
stretching a thin string of spittle,
hung open against the folds of
pink flesh. He cleared his
throat.
“I got something to say to
you, young lady.”
She waited for him without
speaking, and he looked at her
uncertainly. He cleared his
throat again. ,
“You been brought-up in a
good ’ome. Your mother an’ me
have slaved to give you a good
schoolin’, and what thanks do
we get?”
She was aware suddenly that,
like her mother, he, too, was
finding satisfaction in the situa-
tion. Immediately she was
incredibly bored,.
“For heaven’s sake,” she said,
“what’s got into everybody?”
The moment she uttered the
words she realised it was the
spark he needed to stir him to
the anger he had been trying to
force into himself. Anger was
necessary to him. Without it,
there were words r t° struggle
with, attitudes to be posed. Her,
father’s thin lips chewed against
each other.
“Don’t you talk to me like
that, you- dirty little faggot”
His hand came out of his coat-
pocket holding the letter. “I
don’t s’pose you know anything
about this.” He sucked in a
deep breath. “You come ’ome
here bringing your filth.” He
waved the letter. “A fine thing
this is for your mother to find.
No wonder she’s been upset all
day.”
The first terror was moving
away from her. The thing had
been aired and was no longer
frightening.
She said quietly, “One of the
girls in the factory gave it to
me. I didn’t know what was in
it till I brought it home.”
“That’s right,” he snorted,
“make it worse with , your
bloody lies. How many more
of these bloody things have you
got hidden away? Gawd knows
what you been up to.”
She was suddenly angry.
“I told you the truth. You
can take it or leave it.”
“You keep a civil tongue in
your head,” her father ordered
gruffly. “What you want is a
good taste of the strap.”
It was an idea that pleased
him. He thrust the letter into
his pocket and started to fumble
with the buckle of his belt. She
moved on the bed.
, “Don’t you dare lay a hand
on me,” she said fiercely.
But she could tell that the
strap had suddenly become his
solution to a problem that had
been beyond him. She watched
wide-eyed while he slipped the
belt from his waist and looped it
in his hand. He tried a slap
against the palm of his free
hand.
This is just what you need,”
he said. “This’ll belt some of
the nonsense out of you.”
She said, “Don’t you touch
me.”
He was coming across the
room towards her. She leapt up
from the bed and moved away
from him, but in the narrowness
of the room there was no escape
for her. The bulk of his body
crowded her into a comer and
his thick fingers closed hard on
her arm. She tried to break
away, but he twisted her and
caught her in to his side. With
all of her strength she tried to
twist, but the grip was fierce and
firm. The bite of the belt came
sharp against the bare flesh of
her legs.
She twisted back her arm and
her nails caught in the skin of
his face. He swore, and the
strap flailed fiercely against her
body. Above the sound of exer-
tion, her mother’s voice eddied
up from the foot of the stairs.
The lash of the strap against her
body ceased. Her father
dropped her onto the bed, and
she could hear the heavy sound
of his breathing as he walked
across the room and closed the
door behind him. She climbed
off the bed and flicked the room
into darkness.
AT half-past seven she heard
the sound of the front door
and knew that her father had
gone off to his Wednesday night
at the billiard - saloon. She
waited a few minutes, staring
into the darkness, then she
switched on the fight. She
dressed quickly, touched lip-
stick to her lips and went down
the stairs.
Her mother was in the lounge-
room, darning and listening to
the radio. She walked along the
hallway, and her mother’s thin
voice came rushing after her.
“Your tea’s in the oven.”
She opened the door and
went out ‘into the street.
Danny Ewens was where she
had expected she would find
him. From the street outside the
milk-bar, she watched him put
a coin into the juke-box. For
a moment she hesitated, then
she went in and ordered a milk-
shake. Danny came across to
where she was standing.
“Fancy striking you,” he said.
He was wearing a blue suit and
his hair was straight and shiny
with oil. . „
“I don’t often come in here,
she said.
He looked at her.
“Listen,” he said, “how’d you
like to come to a dance with
me?”
“I was going to call-in at one
of the girls’ places.” „
“You can do that any nighty
“I don’t go dancing mucl«
she said. “I’m not very good.
“Doesn’t matter. I’ll sh ovv
you,” ,
At ten o’clock they came out
of the dance-hall.
“I’ll see you home,” Danny
said. . .
They walked in silence pas
the darkened shops.
“We’ll take the short-cut
through, the park,” Danny said,
They turned down a siae-
street and came into the pane.
Instantly she was aware that
their pace had slowed.
Danny said, “Look, you don
have to be home this early.
“How would you know/ «
was the kind of retort Ivy would
have made and she felt a to
of warmth on her cheeks.
“Look,” Danny said, let s SI J
down for a while. Theresas “ i
over there.” , . , t u P
She walked with him into tne
park, feeling the sponginess o
grass under her eet > a^„ hout
sat on the seat and talked a
the factory. Then his arm hau
slid off the seat and was arou
(Continued on page M)
TO REALLY LIVE
To really live
is splitting the infinity,
making moment momentous,
a now of eternity,
islands of rivers,
nonsense of history,
sunlight fantastically
never a tragedy,
ja really to live.
To really love
is nouning the verb and
making minute minute,
a now of eternity,
islands of countries,
nonsense of history,
flesh out of word and
love beyond verb and
is 'really to love.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Yfcataojg ready 1 *
mm
%
m
m
m
uUunuhael4€D
INSULATED COOKER AND
WATER HEATER
BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL, EXTRA LARGE ROASTING OVEN AND
SLOW COOKING OVEN both vitreous enamelled inside
and out.
EXTRA LARGE HOTPLATE with room for six 6-inch
saucepans. Hotplate cover keeps heat in the hotplate.
No matter when you decide to
cook, the Carmichael “400” is
always ready for use. It sup-
plies enough hot water for all
household needs. The sparkling
titanium enamel finish ensures
easy cleaning . . . adds beauty
to any kitchen. Carmichael
"400” ... so simple to use, so . v
economical, so convenient.
Naturally it cooks perfectly ... it's a
*CahmjuJweL
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
A Unit of Email Limited
WRITE TODAY, for free Illustrated literature, to:
Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (Country Distributors)
11 Market Street. Sydney
or
W. T. Carmichael Limited, Rawson Street, Auburn
FULLY
AUTOOE
COOKING
Ah/ayS ready -for cooking
Always gallons of hot water
Always greater convenience
AHfbrfhe
one low tunning cost!
SHAVING
WASHING UP
WASHING
SHOWER
BATHING
COOKING
JL
CaJuuLtAjuU
:■:■ >
Canmidtael 5%)
Heat Storage Range and Water
Heater with True Thermostat Control
Even GREATER Economy—Even MORE Convenience
TWO extra large heat-sealed, fully
enamelled ovens with non-tip shelves.
TWO super-size hotplates with perfectly
flat machined surfaces.
This magnificent stove gives you perfect auto-
matic Cooking and permits boiling, simmering,
grilling, roasting and slow cooking all at the
one time. The heavy casting within the range
stores * TJ - the heat and only minimum of fuel
is required to maintain cooking temperature.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning,
the Carmichael “520” Is truly the ultimate In
solid fuel cooking.
A Matter
of Time
By OLIVER FILTER
BY urban standards, I
think I can fairly claim to
that title which the hard-
ware stores use as flatter-
ing bait in their advertisements:
Handyman.
I can sole shoes, mend pots
and pans, wield a useful
soldering-iron and, within limits,
do a spot of brazing and weld-
ing. I can do most ordinary
carpentry jobs except cut a
roof; elementary metalwork
presents no problems; I can lay
bricks and also drill, blast, split
and set stone. I can develop a
film and print and enlarge it;
I can generally keep a car in run-
ning order ; and I can usually do
something useful about trouble-
some locks and typewriters. I
can also grow vegetables, milk
a goat, pluck and draw a fowl,
cut a cat and even caponise a ,
cockerel.
That’s only the beginning of
the list, but don’t think I’m
boasting, I know my limits and
keep a respectful distance from
radios no matter what they do.
1 never presume to go past the
fuse-box where things electrical
are concerned; sewing-machines,
refrigerators, pressure-lamps and
stoves I leave to the qualified
experts.
Most of my kind, however,
generally have one weakness in
their repertoire. One most able
handyman I know gives a |
goodly percentage of his income
to the radio repairman simply"
because he can never go near his
radio without stabbing it some-
where with a screwdriver, even
though he knows nothing of it.
In my own case it’s clocks.
For me, they have always had
a delightful, and, for them, fatal,
fascination. I just can’t resist
them, and the result is I have
what amounts to quite a collec-
tion of old shoe- and chocolate-
and other boxes each containing
the partly-stripped or partly-
assembled works of clocks.
A WEEK or so ago my wife
bought a new kitchen clock
—one of those cheap plastic
affairs with large and simple
innards and a most asthmatic
tick —and, after I had sug-
gested that it might keep
better time if I oiled it,
she forbade me to wind, set
or even touch it. Sensing my
irritation with it, however, and
no doubt hoping to divert my
ministrations to something else,
she discovered and bought for
me for 12s. 6d. a make-it-your-
self clock —a box of elementary
parts which I assembled with
almost disappointing ease into a
simple weight - and - pendulum
mechanism. As it happens,
it keeps excellent time.
I had never before had any-
experience of weight-and-
pendulum models, and, while I
was assembling it, there occurred
to me the obvious facts that the
weight and the pendulum serve,
respectively, the same purposes
as do the mainspring, and
balance-wheel and hair-spring,
of ordinary clocks. It also
occurred to me that most of the
defeats I had suffered in my
efforts to repair timepieces had
been caused by that, to me,
horological horror, the hair-
spring. I have always been able
to extract them, with the
balance-wheel, from even the
most delicate movements, but
I’m damned if I’ve ever been
able to put them back.
The conclusion from there
was, of course, simple: sub-
stitute pendulums (or pendula)
for the balance-wheels and hair-
springs in any of the defunct
timepieces which looked as
though they might respond to
the operation.
F’ was a rainy Sunday morn-
ing, so I went through the
boxes, and, after rejecting two
pocket-watches and a wrist-
watch as unsuitable, and dis-
carding a clock I had mistakenly
lubricated with linseed-oil and
another which had caught alight
while I was washing it with
petrol, I selected six fairly robust
models which were still pretty
well intact.
The first operation took some
time, but after a good deal of
dexterous manipulation and
after burning my fingers several
times with the soldering-iron, I
at last managed to solder a small
fork of copper-wire to the
appropriate part of the escape-
ment, After that I hooked a
small pendulum of similar wire
on to the fork, added a cork
weight to it and made the first
test. It was one of our wedding
presents. My wife was amazed
and even mildly enthusiastic
when I balanced the mechanism
on the table, flicked the
pendulum and set it ticking with
sweet and untiring regularity. .
There were one or two com-
plications. The clock, of course,
was never made to take a
pendulum, so a hole had to be
cut through the case to make
room for it. The second was
slightly more involved. A clock
with a pendulum, I discovered,
will only work in one position—
if it is tilted too far to one side
it goes “T’tick, t’tick, t’tick”;
tilt it too far the other way and
the sound changes to “Tick t’,
tick t’, tick t’.” The ideal posi-
tion is midway between those
two, but, unfortunately, . that
position does not coincide with
the one in which the clock was
designed to stand when it had a
hair-spring.
It therefore became necessary
to arrange some support for the
clock to stand in its new
position, and, after that, to move
the dial so that the “12” was
once more back in its proper
place at the top of the face. I
accomplished all that without
much trouble and resigned
myself to the fact that the small
alarm indicator now came
through the face about ninety
degrees west of its original posi-
tion and the small numbers that
indicate its setting.
I approached the second clock
with considerably more con-
fidence and completed the opera-
tion in about half the time. I
did the remaining four with
something of the ease and
practised skill with which a
surgeon might whip out a set of
tonsils or an appendix, and by
eight in the evening I had the
six of them suspended from the
walls or balanced on shelves
around the room.
DURING the adjusting-period
I suffered a temporary
aberration of vision through try-
ing to watch six swinging
pendulums at once, but the
attack passed and by 9 p.m. I
had them all synchronised and
all set, I calculated, for the
alarms to go off at seven in the
morning.
When we went to bed my wife
complained that the place
sounded as though a host of
death-watch beetles had moved
in behind the walls, but, person-
ally, I found the medley of tick-
ing pleasant—a minor song of
success, in fact. I went to sleep
with a sigh of satisfaction for
a day’s work well done and
dreams of greater and more
interesting horological adven-
tures.
The first alarm went off at
3.7 a.m., and my wife, like
Cassar, turned in her bed and
muttered. As soon as I had
selected the offender from the
six I silenced it and went back
to bed. The second went off at
exactly eight minutes to four,
and, this time, my wife sat up
and made some unintelligible
complaint. The third rang out
at five-thirty, although its hands
showed eleven o’clock, and it
clanged with such apparently
delirious enthusiasm for its
new-found life that it vibrated
itself off the shelf and crashed
on to the floor.
On this occasion my wife
registered a completely coherent
opinion, and my own enthusiasm
was rather tempered by the chill
of the morning.
The fourth clock hit the jack-
pot within a couple of minutes,
but I felt that any enthusiasm
would have been rather tactless
in the circumstances. The fifth
went off at eight-fifteen just as
I. was finishing breakfast.
The sixth hadn’t fired when I
left to catch the bus to the city,
and I am rather worried about
it at the moment. I have good
grounds for believing that my
wife is sweating on it ready to
clout it with a broom the
moment it makes a sound. For
that matter, if she weren’t a
woman of temperate disposition,
I’d be a little afraid of meeting
the same fate when I go home
tonight.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government , Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Oly T
asuixrv/\v
OTTO
SWS«I»S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul" window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE. ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS >
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
her. He caught her chin with
his free hand and turned her
face towards him. For a
moment she was conscious of a
vague feeling of panic. Her
body stiffened, then as quickly
relaxed.
Her father was coming across
the room towards her, his thin
lips working one against the
other. She leapt up from the
bed and moved away from him,
but in the narrowness of the
room there was no escape for
her. The bulk of his body
crowded her into a corner and
his thick fingers closed hard on
her arm. She tried to break
away but he twisted her and
caught her in to his side. With
all of her strength she tried to.
twist, but the grip was fierce and
firm. The bite of the strap came
sharp against the bare flesh of.
her legs.
She kissed Danny hard, and
felt his fingers slip around the
neck of her frock.
“Look,” he said, “it’s a lot
more comfortable on the grass.”
'T'HE evening in the billiard-
room had done much to
restore Linegar’s good humor.
The letter had been a success.
He snapped his cue back into
the rack and walked across to
where Col Hames was reading it
under the light from one of the
tables. He waited for Col to
finish, then held out his hand.
“Not bad, eh. Col?”
“It’s a beauty,” Col said. “I
wouldn’t mind having a copy.”
Linegar grinned.
“I got orders for a dozen
already. Everybody wants one.
Looks like I’ll be spending all
me beer-money for carbon-
paper.’’ He shrugged his wide
shoulders. “Still, I’ll see you
get a copy.”
“It’s something worth hav-
ing,” Col said,
“Yes,” he agreed, “it’s some-
thing worth having.”
ART and CRAFT
BY NEIL MILLAR
HE rode the night-black
jungle—alone. Beasts of
prey fled trembling from
? ! his path. Dimly visible,
his huge elephant rocked and
lumbered through the fetid
gloom. Almost invisible, .its
enormous tusks jutted down-
ward like sickles of tubular steel.
Completely invisible, its stu-
pendous ears were flattened
backwards to catch the slight-
est whisper of command from
the revered master on its back.
Alexander Jones, the White
Lord of Bongo-Zamzam, was
patrolling his domain.
Who waS this Jones, before
whom the very brutes of the
jungle turned quivering away?
—at whose approach even the
sibilant pygmies withheld their
poisoned blow-darts?—at whose
dread name black wrongdoers
turned grey? What manner of
man was this who rode the
night-black jungle?
Still,, inscrutable, withdrawn,
he sat immaculate in his luxuri-
ous howdah. His glittering
riding-boots, his spotless riding-
breeches, his elegant riding-
gauntlets would have been the
envy of Rotten Row or Broad-
way. The sleeves of his fault-
lessly-tailored riding-shirt were
rolled up to bare the whipcord-
muscles of his savage arms,
which were folded. In the
shadow of his pith-helmet lurked
his face, tanned by the suns of
innumerable deserts, lean with
a lifetime of adventure, lined
with suffering. It displayed his
indomitable will. His masterful
ice-blue stare had, been known
to stop a charging panther in
mid-pounce. At his voice
gorillas shuddered in their leafy
bowers and jaguars trembled.
Woe, woe to anything, ani-
mal, vegetable or mineral, which
crossed the path of Alexander
Jones!
A HOLE, neither animal, vege-
table nor mineral, crossed
his path. Jones’s elephant
dropped its front wheel into it
and bucked abruptly. Jones’s
feet left the pedals. Over the
handlebars flew Jones . . .
By and by the White Chief
pressed on, for in his bosom he
bore a mysterious message to a
lady of high degree.
The hot air throbbed to a
tom-tom—louder, ever louder.
It was the war-drum of the
•terrible M’Kyupi! Unless it
were silenced very soon the
innocent blood of women and
children would flow tonight!
The blood which had flowed
already from Jones’s skinned
knees and elbows, when he fell
off his bike, did not count.
Leaning forward in his saddle
Jones whispered in Arabic;
“Sheik el beduin ben dervish!”
He was an accomplished
linguist.
At once the thoroughbred
stallion skidded to a halt.
Vaulting from the saddle Jones
lifted his charger over a rabbit-
proof fence and strolled on
coolly into the clearing before
him.
The trembling tom-tom
stuttered into silence. From the
guilty witch-doctors burst a
single shriek of despair: then
the cold peace of fear des-
cended. Calm and menacing as
ever, the White Chief stalked
on—on into the heart of the
mutinous M’Kyupi! In the
moonlight their spears glinted
like light-flecks on a twinkling
sea; their eyes rolled like pie-
•bald porpoises; their shields
clunked staccato. Jones glared
them all down and sauntered on.
Before tfce power of his craggy
face the black men cringed
away. Still Jones strode on.
In the centre of the oval
reared a lofty teak-tree guarded
by twelve pythpns—the sacred
serpents of the M’Kyupi! Tied
to this tree, pale but beautiful,
stood a Princess of the East.
She was about to be sacrificed.
Incredibly lovely was her
royal face, that queenly visage
which reminded Jones so much
of Elizabeth Brown, of the
high-born maiden whose crass—
whose tragic—misunderstand-
ings had driven him far from
his smiling battlements at Castle
•Jones, in Joneshire, to the fever-
ish swamps of Bongo-Zamzam.
But who was this damsel who
looked so like Betty Brown?
Could it really be her —or she?
Had the Lady Elizabeth some-
how been captured by slave-
raiders in New York or Perth
and sold into bondage in
Bongo-Zamzam ?
Yes.
The delicate cheek of, the
Princess Elizabeth Yasmin el
Sahara Brown mantled with
wonder, remorse and admira-
tion, Did she not have a chief
and a hero to rescue her, and
not only them, either, but a
sahib and a chivalrous gentle-
man as well? Quicker than eye
could follow his lithe hands
flashed to the butts of the pistols
strapped low on his thighs.
Came a brief roll of thunder as
the two six-guns roared as one
twelve-gun. The dozen pythons
dropped dead. The princess
fainted. Catching her neatly on
the full, the White Chief
whistled-up his racing-camel.
“Sheik el beduin ben der-
vish!” he whispered, and
vaulted into the driver’s seat.
In his arms he bore the sense-
less lady lightly, even though
he had forgotten to cut the
cords which bound her to the
teak-tree. He was strong, but
wondrous gentle.
’HUHEN he reached the
Browns’ place he dis-
mounted from his Centurion
tank and rested it against the
wall. From his shirt he dragged
a parcel. From the parcel he
removed four sheets of news-
paper and one of tissue-paper,
and revealed a pink envelope
which he took gingerly by its
edges. Then, blushing in the
dusk, he knocked.
“I’ve brought a letter over,”
he explained to Mrs. Brown.
“It’s marked Urgent.” The
subtle lady smiled. The mes-
senger continued: “It must have
been put in my school-case by
mistake. It’s addressed to —er —
Elizabeth.”
Mrs. Brown took the envelope
reverently and inspected it with
admiration. “My, what beauti-
ful handwriting! I see the
French people spell Parris with
two R’s nowadays, and put their
postmarks on in pencil, and use
second-hand stamps to save ex-
pense. And they don’t even
bother to stick the flaps down
on the envelopes! Why, any-
body could read their letters!”
“Golly, Mrs. Brown!” cried
admiring Alexander. “You’re as
good as a detective!”
“With three daughters,” Mrs.
Brown explained blandly, “I
have to be a detective. Would
you like to stay and give this
letter to Betty yourself?”
Alexander remembered that
he had fallen off his bike. What
a mess he’d look in the lamp-
light—him with skin off all oyer
the place, and dirt so thick on
him he could almost feel it!
“No thanks, Mrs. Brown. I
have to get back. Good-night,
Mrs. Brown.”
He sidled back into the dusk
and around the corner of the
house. He remounted his bike.
For a hundred yards or so a
strange and cloudy doubt stirred
within him, not altogether
pleasantly. But before long his
mind was on higher things
again: at an altitude of fifty
thousand feet he hurtled
through the sound-barrier and
the Joneses’ front-gate, and
bailed-out sideways into the
Joneses’ kitchen. Here the
dulcet air beamed with the all-
seeing tranquillity of electric
light, and thrilled to the clarion-
fragrance of hot stew.
|"\EEP, very deep, was Betty
Brown, yet beautiful withal.
She moved with a swan-like
grace ; she wore high heels. Her
lips were red as the ruby, her
brow like the driven lard. As
glows the gorgeous pomegran-
ate in the groves of London,
Paris and New York, so glowed
her gorgeous cheek. Her gown
had a flowing train all round the
bottom. Upon her well-gilded
lily-face lingered her Mona-
Lisa smile; on her slim hip her
soft, artistic hand rested like an
orchid-petal; at her feet the
world grovelled.
While Alexander Jones was
riding the night-black jungle, the
Lady Elizabeth Brown, dressed
in her first sister’s frock, and her
second sister’s shoes, etc.* and
opalescent in her own contra-
band make-up, was living
gloriously.
It was during the war, and
Betty was a nurse in a military
hospital. At this hospital
worked Dr. Jones. A mar-
vellous surgeon. Dr. Jones was,
but he always insisted that, if
it hadn’t been for Nurse Brown,
all his magnificent surgery
would be in vein. He wasn't
a particularly good speller,
although Sister Brown was.
He was madly in love with
her, but she said sadly: “No,
Alexander. While these brave
boys are suffering, is it not our
duty to make them insufferable?,
How can we think of happi-
ness?”
After a long, wild kiss Dr.
Jones stiffened his upper lip,
and carried on. Matron Brown
took up her lamp and went
around visiting the wounded,
although her heart was like to
break. The wounded blessed her
as she passed. She bathed their
foreheads in vinegar-and-water,
and tied-up their gravel-rashes,
and put butter on their bruises.
One day an airman was
brought in. When Dame Eliza-
beth saw him her eyes widened
and her hand flew, like a
wounded bird, to her heart.
There lay the slender, hand-
some face of Wing-Commander
Jones, the. great ace. Lady
Brown nursed him back to
health.
Of course he fell desperately
in love with her, but she said
bravely; “No, Alexander. How
ban we think of happiness while
these brave boys are hospital-
members? Until they are all
dismembered—can’t you—won’t
you understand?”
Her lovely green eyes welled
over with womanly appeal.
“Yes,” he sighed. “I under-
stand.”
Sadly saluting, he turned and
went off with bowed shoulders
on a dangerous raid over Berlin,
and was shot down by the Japs
and captured by the Koreans.
Missing, believed killed.
Alas, poor Betty! When the.
tragic news reached her she
turned pale as a ghost, and her
hand fluttered like a wounded
bird to her heart, and she
staggered backwards a few steps.
Otherwise she gave no sign. But
one night she disguised herself
as a spy, and vanished.
Whither?
She had gone off to rescue
Alexander, who had, to the
astonishment of all, been cap-
tured alive.
She rescued him easily
enough. In the cause of the
man she loves a woman’s wits
are equal to anything—especi-
ally if the woman is naturally
pretty brilliant, anyway.
AT this glad ending Betty
began to remove her motley.
Then, she heard the familiar
whistle of Alexander, the cres-
cendo sussuration of approach-
ing bike-tyres, a rattle, a thump
on the wall and a knocking at
the door. '
Roughly scrubbing at her
cream-and-crimson camouflage,
frantically assuming her own
unhonored garments, she rushed
to the kitchen and sauntered in
—too late. Sadly she peered
from her romantic bower’s case-
ment near the sink and saw the
princely Alexander, head-down
and tail-up, fade into the gloom.
What a dashing, reckless rider
he was! —even though he
couldn’t ride no-hands as well
as she could.
She grabbed the letter marked
Urgent and opened it urgently.
It contained nothing but a
single, highly - scented sheet
covered with the ultra-
ornamental handwriting of
Mademoiselle Hermione de la
Brown, of Moulin Rouge-street,
Parris. Mademoiselle, who
wrote with a thick foreign ac-
cent, admired her deare cousine
Elizabette tremendously.
It seemed that there was a
profound secret between them
concerning a member of the
sterner sex. His name was not
divulged, though hinted at; his
person was not described so
much as inferred: had he turned
out to be a certain manly,
though youthful, scion of the
House of Jones, no one but
Alexander himself would have
been surprised.
But all these literary subtle-
ties were from the female aristo.
in Parris. From that less-
distant grandee, Alec Jones the
local boy, there was neither
word nor sign not even a
grubby fingerprint.
“He’s a nice boy,” said Mrs.
Brown the mind-reader. “I
don’t think he’d dream of open-
ing another person’s letter. Not
even if the other person had
written the letter for him to
read. Not even if she had
slipped it into his school-case by
mistake.”
The young lady blushed. She
tossed her head. She shrugged
enormously. She stalked to the
stove and flung the letter on the
fire.
Sniffing, she turned away.
Sniffing, she turned back again.
Silently she seized a pot-
holder and lifted the first pot-
lid. Then she stooped over the
pot, graceful as a ballerina, and
inhaled luxuriously through the
nose.


A Spear-fisherman Weighs Your Chances
Sharks;
What Are the Odds?
By GRAEME DAVIDSON
(BECAME a devotee in the
early days of spear-fishing,
when spearmen were objects
of wonder, and to describe
them as “men from Mars” still
seemed witty and original. I
laughed at the name of “shark-
bait,” and. delighted to have
trepid landsmen ask: “But what
about the man-eaters?”
“Sharks?” I thought, “Nasty
customers to meet up with —but
they couldn’t happen to me.”
I left that illusion in the deep
water off Long Reef one day,
when my first man-eater nosed
past me. The shark came from
behind, and I did not see it until
it was only a few feet away. It
looked so big 1 thought it could
have swallowed me whole
without my touching the sides of
its throat. That’-s how it
appeared at the time. Recol-
lected in tranquillity, I would say
it was 10ft. long, although it had
a tremendous girth. It looked at
me once, and then swam leisurely
away.
After I had watched a couple
more sharks watching me I
decided that, since it is safer to
know your enemies more
thoroughly than your friends, I
had better find out something
about them, and see just what the
risks were.
There are eight species in Aus-
tralian waters which qualify fJr
the title “man-eater.” On only
two occasions, however, have
human remains been found in
sharks caught shortly after an
attack. In each case the shark
was a Black Whaler.
Shark identification by a fin or
a dark shadow seen from the
shore is not* reliable, and only in
the two cases mentioned has the
identity been sufficiently authen-
ticated. The other sharks are
suspects merely, although it is
possible that, since they have the
size, strength and capacity to
demolish a human victim, they
have also had, at times, the
inclination to do so as well.
Sight is not the shark’s most
important sense. Sharks are
believed to be shortsighted, and
if they are not, the opacity of
the water would limit their field
of vision. Sharks are attracted
to disturbances in the water, or
simply follow their noses to find
food.
The olfactory lobe of the
shark’s brain —the part concerned
with the sense of smell —is rela-
tively enormous when compared
with that of other fishes. The
nasal openings are also very
large, and are placed, with the
mouth, on the underside of the
head.
When blood is in the water,
sharks come quickly to the scene.
Pearl-divers whose suits have had
traces of fish-blood on them —
picked up, perhaps, from the
deck of the lugged where fish have
been landed —have been attacked
by sharks, providing some of the
very few instances where “dress”-
divers have been molested.
The sense by which a shark
can detect vibrations caused by
waves and currents and the
movements of other creatures is
unique to fish. It is centred in
the lateral line —a line extending
along both the shark’s sides —and
is believed to combine the pro-
perties of hearing and touch.
Hans Hass, in his book
Diving to Adventure, was led to
the theory that sharks are so
sensitive to vibrations in the
water that they can perceive the
distinctive fin-beats of a di s "
tressed fish even at a great
distance.
Also, by responding to the
different “echo” vibrations, the
shark knows, without seeing,
when it is approaching an
obstacle, and can “feel” the sea-
bottom over which it passes even
though never actually touching
it.
The rows of triangular or
pointed teeth in a shark’s jaw
are on a kind of hinge, by which
they are raised or protruded
when the jaw is opened, and
lowered and turned inwards
when the jaw closes. It is impos-
sible to imagine a set of dentures
better adapted for first grasping
and then holding or tearing the
prey.
Regarded as a whole, the co-
ordination of muscle and senses
in a shark has made it the most
efficient killing weapon in the
seas. It is perfectly adapted for
hunting in a watery medium;
and this is borne out by the fact
that sharks have altered little in
millions of years of the Earth’s
history.
Considering Australia’s grim
shark record by itself, it seems
that sharks,. to show that the
ocean is still their domain, are
bent on using all they have. The
records indicate that once you are-
in the water you are liable to be
attacked, no matter what the
depth or the circumstances.
At Maroubra beach, Sydney,
in 1935, a boy only waist-deep
in water was attacked, and sub-
sequently died. The shark
attacked with such ferocity ft
almost stranded itself.
Just as depth is no object,
neither is distance from the
shore —though there have been
fewer attacks close in. The
chance of recovery aft«r an
attack depends to a large extent
on distance from the shore: the
longer the swimmer is in the
water, the more chance the shark
has for a repeat performance;
also, the loss of blood will be
greater, because sea-water
promotes bleeding to an
abnormal degree.
Swimming with large groups
is no definite protection, either,
since individuals have been taken
by sharks, not only on the out-
skirts but in the middle of crowds
as well. It is a fact, however,
that most'attacks have occurred
in deep water when the swimmer
was alone or was in some way
separated from the group.
Naturally, writers of lurid
South Seas fiction let their heads
go when talking about sharks.
They could paint a picture of'
ominous fins cleaving the surface,
of cunning, vicious monsters of
the deep waiting, just waiting,
for the next human victim, and
nobody thought very much to
question whether this could be
strictly true.
Today, however, the extremes
of the fiction-writers in the one
direction are being equalled by
the extremes of the debunkers in
the other. Some authorities
claim, with the support of
evidence, that the shark is a
coward which can be frightened
off —even by a woman—by
simply saying “Boo!’’-under the
water.
With the advent of self-
contained breathing-equipment
in the last decade men have been
able to stay under the water and
move as freely as fish. The shark
at home in the deep was found to
be a very different creature from
the shark that is making a public
appearance. This was because it
had been only when sharks
snapped at a hooked fish or at
some floating morsel that men
had been aware of them. That
is, they.were seen only when,
from our point of view, their
actions were evil.
The new “skin”-divers learned
about the other side of the shark's
nature —his caution, his studied
avoidance of trouble.
While engaged in spear-fishing
and underwater photography on
the Great Barrier Reef, some
friends and I had .great difficulty
in approaching the sharks. They
were not very big, but still quite
big enough to do a lot of damage
if they had wanted to. However,
they didn’t want to. We saw
only one really big shark- a
12-footer—and it swam by with-,
out a second glance.
In the West Indies Hans Hass
struck the same problem, but he
found a simple solution. He
found that if he swam away
slowly the shark would follow,
coming close enough for a
picture. Then he would turn
suddenly and snap the shutter
before the startled monster could
escape.
The fact that sharks do not
inevitably attack bathers is very
gratifying to bathers, on the one
hand, but, on the other, it is
very confusing to the theorists.
Why is a shark —whose size,
speed, jaws, all go to make it the
most efficient killing weapon in
the seas —possessed with a nature
that makes it more often than not
scuttle away from a defenceless
swimmer like a frightened
puppy?
And what makes a shark sud-
denly lose its fear, like the one
at Marqubra beach, and become
almost suicidal in its ferocity?
Why, if it has the capacity to
kill, does it allow its talents so
often to go wasted?
Much time and money have
been spent in studying the con-
ditions under which shark-
attacks have taken place. Time,
tide, currents, movements of
shoal-fish, prevailing winds,
color of the water, cloud and
sunshine, were all taken into con-
sideration. In the end the experts
were forced to the conclusion
that they will never be able to
forecast when sharks are likely
to attack.
This should have been obvious
frdm the start, because the reason
for an attack lies less in weather
conditions than within the shark
itself.
Sharks owe their continued
existence through millions of
years as much to their ability to
avoid harm as to their capacity
to catch food. A shark’s behavior
is the outcome of the conflict be-
tween hunger and caution—the
two sides of its instinct for self-
preservation.
When completely ravenous a
shark will attack almost anything
without warning, but when its
hunger is partly satisfied, as it
nearly always is, then caution
becomes dominant. Normally,
a shark will thoroughly investi-
gate anything before attempting
to swallow or attack it.
Because general experience is
that big animals can inflict harm,
it has become instinctive for a
shark to avoid attacking anything
as big as a man, unless compelled
to by hunger.
It also seems instinctive in a
shark to attack anything that is
wounded or disabled. Dead fish
characteristically float at the
surface, and a man swimming or
a small boat rocking with the
waves could easily be mistaken
by a shark for a disabled fish,
and attacked —by accident, as it
were.
A shark is not a man-eater in
the sense that it deliberately
selects a man for its prey in
preference to other animals, as
does a man-eating tiger, for
instance. When a shark attacks
a man, all that can be said of its
motives is that its hunger over-
came its caution or it mistook
him for a disabled fish.
The problem is to prevent such
mistakes happening.
In Ceylon, the native pearl-
divers had a paid official known
as a “shark-charmer.” It was
said that he had an alliance
with the sharks, and this
beneficent presence alone pro-
tected from hungry marauders
all who had paid their duls. *
But only, slightly less absurd
than the use of a charmer is the
use of a knife for protection.
A shark’s hide is so tough that
the knife would need to be razor-
sharp to penetrate it, and water-
resistance is such that a knife
cannot be wielded with any great
force. Again, even a mortally-
wounded shark could cause quite
a lot of damage before it died.
But the really great problem is
to mortally wound a shark. One
day I watched the speed and
gymnastic ability of a seven-
footer as, before swallowing it
whole, this shark played with a
fish I had just speared. Then I
realised more clearly than ever
before the futility of facing with
a knife a shark whose inteptions
were really serious.
The two most notable chemical
repellents are copper acetate, and
a substance known as nigrosene.
In water, copper acetate smells
like decomposing shark flesh,
and in theory will be avoided by
healthy sharks. There have been
exceptions, however, and in
practice it seems that if a shark
is hungry enough it will not be
put off by a bad smell. *
Nigrosene is a black dye which
sets up a “smoke-screen” under
the water. This alone would
hardly seem useful, because a
shark can follow movement
through the vibrations without
actually seeing it.
Sharks will attack a moving
object more readily than a still
one, and the Torres Strait
Islanders take advantage of this
fact. They simply hold on to
the bottom and lie perfectly still
until the shark goes away! This
method, beautiful in its simplicity
though it is, would be ruled out
for myself and all the spearmen
I know, since, shark or no shark,
we need air some time, and the
only place to get it is at the
surface.
At a depth, a sharp prod on
the snout or in the eye —prefer-
ably in the eye—is enough to
drive a shark off. The diver
should never swim rapidly away
from the shark; if anything, he
should quietly work his way to
a safe spot, or he should swim
towards the shark, waving his
arms and causing as much com-
motion as possible. At the
surface, a sharp prod may work,
but a shark is not easily deterred,
and at the same time the
swimmer is then more helpless.
The power of sudden, un-
accustomed noise to frighten
sharks has been known for a
long time. As well as having
their professional shark-charmers
the natives of Ceylon also
frighten sharks off by shouting
underwater. “Dress”-divers send
sharks scuttling off with a burst
of “air-bullets” from the sleeves
of their suits. The method of
shouting at sharks received its
greatest publicity from Dr. Hans
Hass. There is, however, no way
of telling whether it is the sound
of the shout, the sight of the
bubbles, the vibrations, or a
combination of all three. The
main point is that shouting under
the water does work —most of the
time. On a recent visit to Aus-
tralian waters, Hass found that
our sharks were less afraid than
any others he had met, and he
said he could well understand
Australia’s grim shark record.
There have been occasions
when shouting has failed, and
Hass himself considers he’s lucky
to be alive to tell of at least one
of these.
(Continued on page 30)


Don't let mental
illness scare you
Contrary to popular notions,
mental illness is not Increas-
ing, does not turn most victims
into menaces to others —and it
can usually be cured.
Ih March Reader’s Digest
mental experts, offer reassuring
facts about insanity; give a
challenging quiz to help you
judge the state of your own
mental health. Such questions
as “Is mental illness increas-
ing?’’, “What kind of individual
usually avoids mental illness?”
and “Are the mentally sick a
menace to others?” are fully
answered.
Thirty-two stimulating ar-
ticles of lasting interest in
March Reader's Digest, now on
sale —one shilling and sixpence,
all newsagents and bookstalls.
STOP
SMOKING
IN A FEW DAYS
SUCCESS GUARANTEED
A proven remedy over a period
of years. No craving or
harmful drugs.
GIVE IT UP TO-DAY
FULL TREATMENT only
207-
Post Free
Macquarie Chemicals,
G.P.O. Box 754 Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Birdwood’s brilliant New-
market success and crack three-
year-oltj Cromis’s grand win in
the Queen Elizabeth Stakes—
both started favorite were
features of the opening day of
the V.R.C.’s autumn meeting at
Flemington, vriien the Queen,
the Duke of Edinburgh and other
members of the Royal party
attended.
Bookmakers had one of their
worst Flemington days on
record, five favorites winning, as
well as a third-favorite—Sunish,
in the Duke of Edinburgh Aus-
tralian Cup—who was also a bad
result for the ring. The bright
spot for the fielders was Acra-
mitis in the Sires’ Produce Stakes
at 14 to 1,
The Queen had a special in-
terest in the running of the
Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
Flemington, because Cromis,
easy winner of the £10,500 con-
test, is a son of Helios (imp.),
who was bred by her late father,
King George VI. Her Majesty
made a closer inspection of
Cromis than of any other horse
she has seen racing in Aus-
tralia or New Zealand.
In England Helios had three
unplaced runs, two at two years
and one at three years. V.R.C,
vice-chairman E. A. Under-
wood secured him for Aus-
tralia, and after landing him in
Melbourne had Cup ideas, but
the importation injured himself
during a track gallop and had
to be retired. That was about
11 years ago. His progeny have
won Derbies, St. Legers, Cups
arid various other races, in addi-
tion to weight-for-age contests.
He is leading sire in Victoria.
Best horses sired by him have
been Carbon Copy, Wodalla
and Cromis. Helios was foaled
in 1937, and is by Hyperion
from Foxy Gal, an American-
bred mare by Sir Galahad 111
from Filante by Sardanapale.
Back in his pedigree figures the
Carbine blood. Sir Galahad
Ill’s progeny have won upwards
of £xV250,000 in stakes.
Birdwood was selected on this
page to win the Newmarket, as
was Sunish for the Australian
Cup, and Cromis for the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes. Sunish had
won at his two prior starts and
is now at the top of his form.
However, the stable intends to
give him a let-up, as it has
visions of winning the next Mel-
bourne Cup. Sunish is a real
stayer, and the Cup should be
within his compass, but he will
strike a vastly superior field in
the two-miler later in the year.
He has, at any rate, shown
ability to get the Cup distance,
and that is a strong pointer in
his favor.
• • • •
The Sires’ Produce Stakes
wasn’t the match-race between
Indian Empire and Spritsail that
had been anticipated. They were
beaten into the minor places by
Melbourne-owned and -trained
Acramitis, who led all the way,
and evidently is a colt with a
bright future. Acramitis won
the classic in race-record time
of Imin. 24sec., which clipped
half a second from the existing
record shared by several win-
ners of the sprint.
Acramitis has started four
times for two wins and two
seconds. Trained by J. P. Mul-
cahy for S. de George and A. J.
Summers, he is by Dhoti (imp.)
from Toompine, an unraced
mare by Neptune (imp.). He
was bred by Mrs. Mary Heather
at her Marylands stud, Hallam
(Vic.), and was ridden in the
Sires’ Produce by her husband,
Reg, who thus won a race on
the first day Ije resumed riding
after a brief suspension. The
V.R.C. had reduced his term
by a day or two to enable him
to ride at the Royal-visit meet-
ing.
• • • •
* It is time the V.R.C. stepped-
up stakemoney for the New-
market. It is a historical event,
but other short-distance events
now completely overshadow it
in stakemoney. In fact, it is a
minor affair compared with Bris-
bane sprint prizes. Owners
certainly feel that the Newmarket
stake should be increased from
the £3OOO it has been for some
years to at least £4OOO or even
£5OOO. That would be little
enough these days for a race of
such importance.
• • • •
Birdwood’s Newmarket share
was a little more than £2OOO. He
has now had 18 starts for eight
wins, and, with minor placings,
has earned £9537. He may ■be
given a brief respite, then taken
to Brisbane for the rich races of
the winter, which seems the
logical scheme for the stable to
follow. Noel McGrowdie, who
rode him, has won most of the
important events, but this was
his first Newmarket,
The V.R.C. St. Leger, which
looks easy for Melbourne’s crack
three-year-old colt Cromis, is
one of the oldest events on the
Victorian Turf calendar; it dates
back to 1857, four years before
the running of the first Mel-
bourne Cup. The A.J.C, St.
Leger was first programmed in
1841, when it was run on the
old Homebush track. First
Randwick St Leger was decided
in 1861, Darby Munro won the
V.R.C. St. Leger three times:
Reading (1940), Gay Lad
(1946) and Hydrogen (1952).
Bob Lewis won that classic qji
seven occasions.
*
The St. Leger this year will
be staged on Saturday, third day
of the V.R.C. meeting. Many
St. Leger contestants go to the
post at odds-on, and quite a
number of them have been de-
feated. Last autumn 7-to-4-on
Advocate, from Sydney, was
easily defeated by Arbroath (12
to 1), with Wodalla (7 to 1)
third. Time for the race,
2mm. 57sec., was a fraction
outside Reading’s record made
in 1940.
• • .
Hangover (imp.) gets his
share of winners at Brisbane
meetings, most of his progeny
being Queensland-bred. His
stock are partial to soft going,
and three of them—Big Spree]
Hangon and Pin Over—won
races at Doomben last Saturday,
when the going was rain-
affected. Big Spree cleared out
with the Doomben Handicap,
starting at 5 to 4 6n, but Pin
Over was a 25-to-l shot and
Hangon an even greater out-
sider at 50’s. Hangover is by
His Grace, a son of Blandford,
from Overmist by Beresford.
Pin Over and Big Spree are
sister and brother, both from
the Hebrus mare Pinda D. All
three winners were bred by
Queensland studmaster T. J.
Turkington.
Brisbane autumn and early-
winter meetings are becoming
increasingly popular with
southern owners and trainers.
Randwick is . getting . fewer
nominations from Melbourne
than in earlier years for its
Easter carnival, because a
number of Victorians now con-
centrate on their own early-
autumn fixtures, and then bypass
Sydney for Brisbane. The chief
reason is that Brisbane stake-
money is so attractive and, is
yearly getting bigger. Horses,
too, feel the benefit of the change
from cooler Melbourne to
warmer Brisbane, while Sydney
gallopers also do well in the
northern capital in the autumn.
Three Brisbane clubs have
arranged an aggregate distribu-
tion of £74,565 for half a dozen
meetings during the early-
winter round; The three-days
Brisbane Cup fixture—to be held
this year in June instead of early
May—will carry a total of
£40,065. At the Doomben Cup
meeting £27,500 will bp passed
on to owners, while Tattersall’s
Club has a £7OOO one-day fixture
on June 26. Brisbane Cup is
worth £12,000, and three other
races carry a total of £30,500.
Though he wasn’t first past the
winning-post, Persian Shah,
trained at Rosebery, secured the
Newcastle Maiden Juvenile sprint
on protest from Wonder Town.
One of Bill Williamson’s team,
Persian Shah had indicated early
winning prospects when a good
second to Zoutman at Canterbury
Park a couple of weeks earlier.
The colt is by Persian Book
(imp.) from Belle Rose, who was
bred by Sydney paddock-
bookmaker Jack Mandel. Belle
Rose is by Beau Fils (imp.) from
Merrily by Chivalrous (imp.).
Persian Book was a sprint winner
in England, and in one race at
Lincoln ran a mile in course-
recOrd time. He is by Pherozshah
from Belleheim by Blenheim,
• • •• •
Only two of the’progeny of
the new English sire Weigh Up
were catalogued at the Randwick
autumn sales last year—a colt
from Fool’s Paradise sold to
Queensland for 425gn5., and a
filly from Grandeur, purchased
at TOOgns. by S. J. Warrant. The
filly, racing as Gala Star, opened
her winning account in a Maiden
at the latest Hawkesbury meet-
ing. She is a half-sister to Grand
Monarch, a Sydney and Mel-
bourne winner. Her dam is a
sister to Hope, winner of 24
races, including an A.J.C. Anni-
versary Handicap. Weigh Up
was a good two-year-old in
England. He was sired by Bob-
sleigh from Meditation by
Caerleon (Eclipse Stakes).
• • • •
Warwick Farm on Saturday
may see the reappearance of
some of the best horses, having
preliminary runs leading up to
the autumn racing at Randwick.
Entrants for the Farm include
Royal Stream, Barfleur, Over-
sight, Friendly Feeling, Grand
•Vile and Connaught. Barfleur
has Bst. in the Doncaster
(April 17), and is one of the
early fancies. Royal Stream has
7,9 in the same race. Friendly
Feeling may be a Sydney Cup
lightweight show with 7.7. She
is in work at Rosebery and
looks in good condition. Last
autumn she ran third in the
Sydney Cup with a similar
weight.
* * *
In a specially-arranged un-
paced attempt at Melbourne’s
Olympic Pool, Jon Henricks
made new world’s-record time
for 110yds. freestyle, 56.25ec.,
the previous-best being 56.4.
(World’s record for such a dist-
ance is usually taken over 100
metres, about 2ft. short of
110yds.) This time was, of
course, a new Australian record
for 110yds., which had been
57sec., set by Henricks him-
self. On Saturday night Hen-
ricks easily won the Australian
110yds. title in 56.8 sec.
Like Henricks, 15-year-old
Gary Chapman also set a new
Australian time, and bettered
his own record to do it. This
was in the 440yds. freestyle,
which he won in 4min. 39.25ec.;
his previous record was
4min. 42.65ec., which he made
last year and equalled recently
in the N.S.W. championships.
His new time is 10.2 sec, better
than the Empire Games record,
and is the fastest recorded in the
world over the last two years.
Also, it easily beat the previous-
best Victorian time, John Mar-
shall’s 4min. 48.6 sec,
Another good effort in the
men’s events was the winning
of the national 1650yds. title by
a 14-year-old Sydney schoolboy,
John Donohoe. His time, 19min,
47.1 sec., broke Marshall’s
1949 Victorian record by
30.3 sec. Donohoe is the youngest
male swimmer ever to win an
Australian open championship.
* * *
In bleak weather at the Royal-
visit athletics at Olympic Park
(Melb.) John Landy did the
mile in 4min. 2.65ec., I.4sec.
outside the world record. He
has now run the mile in under
4min. 3sec. three times this sea-
son—a great effort, and lately
he has had to contend with bad
conditions. After his latest run
a Melbourne paper described
Landy as the “world’s fastest
runner”—though he doesn’t
hold the world’s record, and
his best time (4min. 2sec.) has
also been done by the English-
man Bannister. He’s having
another shot at beating Haegg’s
time tomorrow night (Thurs-
day).
* * *
“Kooyong”: Australia is
playing a five-“ Test” series
against a visiting lightly-regarded
South African tennis team. The
Tests are mixed affairs, men’s
and women’s singles and doubles
and mixed doubles. Weather
and other things have combined
to reduce public interest. In
the first Test, in Brisbane, rain
interfered' when S’Africa were
leading four rubbers to three ;
the second, to be played in Syd-
ney, was washed out without a
ball being served. Now the
tfiird a t Kooyong, with Hoad
and Rosewall in the Australian
team (the Royal couple attended
it), has been won by the Spring-
boks.
* * *
Despite expressed fears about
what the S.A. batsmen were
going to do to N.S.W.’s “thread-
bare” attack (minus Lindwall,
dropped by the selectors), N.S.w!
were able to win outright com-
fortably in Sydney. N.S.W.’s
“weakest attack since the war”
was on top practically through-
out, and Favell (in both innings)
and Watts (first innings) were
about the only S.A. batsmen who
really collared it.
In Perth Victoria easily beat
W.A. outright. The Westralians,
whose batsmen have let the side
down more than once this season,
could manage only 168 and 165,
and Victoria won by 10 wickets.
Vic.’s old reliables Bill Johnston
and lan Johnson between them
collected the scalps* in W.A.’s
second innings.
W.A. started the season all
right, making 402 in the first
knock against S.A. and winning
on the first innings, but after that
the Westraliansdost three games
outright. In six completed
innings they reached 200 only
twice (282 against N.S.W., 202
against Q.).
Former Test opening-batsman
Colin McDonald was in the
starring role with the bat for Vic-
toria in Perth. He made 145
(out of 287) and 24 not-out
(0-50), and then against South
Australia he got among ’em
again. Since his success as
Morris’s partner in the Tests
against South Africa last season
Mac hadn’t done particularly
well, either in England or in
Shield games this, season. Still,
he has ability and is not easily
unsettled by, say, a narrow
escape; the right temperament
for a Test batsman. He may
force his way back to an Aus-
tralian side; though he faces
strong competition for the vacant
Test opening possie from Ron
Briggs, who made a chanceless
136 for N.S.W. against S.A., and
has been remarkably consistent,
sharing in three century opening-
partnerships, each of over 150,
in Shield cricket this season.
* * •
Another of the famed fight-
ing clan became middleweight
champion of Australia when
Altie Sands (11.3 i) stopped
Harry Hayes (11.1?) at Leich-
hardt in the presence of a large
and loud congregation. Alf, by
the same token, isn’t within
boomerang-reach of the boxer-
fighter quality of brother Dave,
the titleholder when he was
killed in a truck accident at
Dungog (N.S.W.) on August 11,
1952. Even so,, he was a whole
lot better than Hayes. By using
justifiable caution Harry kept
out of trouble for a few rounds,
and also ref. Art Mawson felt
impelled to tell Alf to put more
heart into it. Which Alf did,
adding, in the eighth round, a
right fist which flattened Harry
to such purpose that when he
managed to get on his pins again
he had about as much fight in
him as an oyster at a Lord
Mayor’s banquet. Alf by t.k.o.


"There never was anyone like Jimmy"
James Edmond
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
RECENTLY there came*
into my hands a letter
written in 1903 by James
Edmond (who was just
about to take over the editorship
of The Bulletin from J. F.
Archibald), addressed to S. H.
Prior, whom Archibald had in-
vited to join the staff, and who
was to become editor of The
Bulletin himself 12 years
later.
Prior was jhen editor of
“Tpe Barrier Miner” at Broken
Hill, and-he had written to Ed-
mond asking him to recommend
a good residential suburb in
which to live in Sydney. Ed-
mond, after remarking that
“there are very few suburbs
that I want to live in, and none
that I want to die in,” dismissed
various suburbs at which you
“arrive home by three instal-
ments,” and added:
For a map who loves gardening
I can recommend Bondi. You can
plant ten successive trees or vege-
tables in one hole in its sandy soil
without one of them coming up.
Thereby you don’t get many vege-
tables, but the amount of gardening
you get is tremendous.
That was typical of Edmond,
whom Archibald used to say
was the only man living who
could make the analysis of a
balance-sheet funny, “He was,”
said Bertram Stevens, “the
man who is chiefly responsible
for what has been called
‘Bulletinese.’ Interspersed
throughout his constructive and
desperately serious articles were
fantastically right words, ludi-
crously apposite turns of phrase
which ' provoked unexpected
bursts of laughter, and in
doing so registered his argu-
ment on the reader’s mind in
an unforgettable manner.”
Both Arthur H. Adams and
John Bede Dailey used to main-
tain that a great humorist was
lost to the world when circum-
stances made of Edmond a
great editor. From time 'to time
Edmond escaped from his edi-
torial columns and wrote stories
and verse which bear out that
assessment of him. These were
collected in the volume A
Journalist and Two Bears, pub-
lished in 1913, and now trea-
sured by Australiana-collectors.
There was one who differed
from those opinions. To Perci-
val Serle, Edmond “had a great
reputation as a humorist in his
day which is now somewhat
difficult to justify.'” One is in-
clined to suspect, however, that
Serle, judging from his opinion
of Edmond, his treatment of
Steele Rudd and his neglect of
Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) in
his Dictionary of Australian
Biography, was possessed of a
somewhat lame imagination.
Arthur Adams once said that
Edmond’s humor “almost
escapes classification, so unex-
pected it is, so unhampered by
rules and regulations.... .His
pen tfots and rambles at his
grotesque will, and without
formulae or method finds
humor in places where no other
writer has ever thought of seek-
ing it before.”
The humor that got loose in
A Journalist and Two Bears is*
a sort of super-imagination.
“The Baseless Fabric of the
City of Free Drinks” begins in
the maddest way any respectable
story ever began. In such stories
as “The Row in Our Boarding-
house” and “The Girl in the
Turkish Bath” his humor cap-
tured his pen and carried it
along irresistibly until the ink
was exhausted with laughter.
There are pictures of places
and people in these stories that
remain unforgettable, like Bil-
dad, where “The Curse of the
Lost Soul Mine” vegetated.
Then there is the riotous
story which gives the book its
title, the delightful account of
“The Unspeakable Turk,” and
the heroic story of “Barrios,
Consul for Galatia.” There is
“The Autobiography of a
Cannibal,” in which a murderer
disposes of the body by the
happy expedient of eating him.
The subsequent confusion in
the mind of the murderer as to
whether it was himself or the
man he had incorporated in
himself who was going to be
executed constitutes a most con-
vincing and humorous working-
out of a remarkable hypothesis.
James Edmond was born in
Glasgow in 1859. He once con-
fessed to Zora Cross: “My first
recollections are of Kidder-
minster, where my father re-
moved when I was one year
old. He rose to be the owner
of a small and not very success-
ful carpet-factory, where the des-
pised Kidderminster carpet was
made. He died, and the family
fortunes flickered out.”
According to Who’s Who
(the few inches devoted to him
in it used to be the most refresh-
ing and humorous in that
annual reference-book) he “re-
ceived a rather neglected educa-
tion at a private school,” which
he left at the age of 12, when
his father died. After leaving
school he (to quote from Who’s
Who again) “entered on active
pursuit of a crust in a fire-
insurance office; two com-
panies which employed me went
bankrupt, but I made no profit
out of the disasters.”
Doubtless it was during those
years that he gained his marvel-
lous knowledge of figures, which
he was to employ to such good
effect during his journalistic
career.
At the age of 19 he left Scot-
land per steerage-berth, for
New Zealand, where, in Dun-
edin, he got himself a job as a
fire-insurance clerk. Soon after-
wards he became a partner in
a confectionery - manufacturing
business, which went under
when the New Zealand Govern-
ment altered the tariff by im-
posing a duty on sugar and ad-
mitting confectionery free.
Another cause of Edmond’s
failure as a lolly-maker was the
fact that -he overpaid his em-
ployees.
Then followed a mining ven-
ture with a Chinaman named
Ah Yin. The partners bought a
goldmine for ten pounds. After
a period of heartbreaking, back-,
breaking labor, during which, as
Edmond explained, “We steadily
produced twenty hundredweight
of ro%d-metal to the ton,” Ed-
mond one day dropped his
shovel and said to Ah Yin “You
may have my share for what I
paid for it.” His partner there-
upon dropped his shovel and
replied “You may have my
share for nothing.”
They walked off their lease
there and then. Practically
penniless, at the age of 22, Ed-
mond crossed the Tasman to
Australia.
Edmond apparently forgave
New Zealand, for he made fre-
quent hofiday-trips there in
after years. It was he who
named it Maoriland, which
name became regular Bulletin
usage.
In Australia Edmond went to
Bendigo and tried goldmining
again, once more without suc-
cess. Then he decided that
Queensland was the young man’s
field, and for a time was em-
ployed in the sugar-industry at
Rockhampton, where, by a freak
of fortune, he chanced on a
newspaper job.
It happened that, in 1885, the
Rockhampton “Morning Bulle-
tin” wanted a proof-reader. Ed-
mond had little knowledge of
what would be required, but
there was an encyclopaedia in
the reading - room at the
Mechanics’ Institute, and he de-
cided that if he began studying
in the morning he might know
enough about it by evening to
get through a trial.
He applied, impressed William
Mcllwraith, owner and editor,
and was given the position. The
trial cpuldn’t have been very
thorough, for the first issue for
which he read the proofs con-
tained a record number of
errors. Fortunately for Ed-
mond, however, Mcllwraith
caught malarial fever and was
forced to stay in bed for several
weeks, and before he returned
to the office Edmond had mas-
tered the ins-and-outs of proof-
reading. He was afterwards
transferred to the literary staff
and eventually became sub-
editor and leader-writer.
“It was then,” said Edmond
in after years, “that I decided
that journalism was the only *
trade for which I had any apti-
tude, and the only one in the
wide world which was, worth a
sensible man’s consideration.”
William Mcllwraith thought
so little of his sub-editor as a
humorist that whenever Ed-
mond turned in anything humor-
ous it would get tossed into the
wastepaper - basket. Edmond,
however, would rescue it and
send it down to The Bulletin,
where Wilfred Blacket, a sub-
editor under J. F. Archibald,
was impressed by the originality,
quaint humor and practical
commonsense. So, too, was
Archibald when Blacket brought
Edmond’s contributions to his
notice, and it wasn’t long before
Archibald offered Edmond a
position on the literary staff.
In December, 1886, Edmond
left Rockhampton for The
Bulletin, and very soon was
producing a remarkable flood of
original copy. He was, in fact,
the most prolific writer on a
staff of prolific writers. Leaders,
paragraphs, financial notes,
dramatic criticisms and verse
flowed from his pen.
When he had an occasional
spire hour he wrote humorous
stories under the pen-name of
“Titus Salt.” The first of his
yarns, “A Cannibal Story,”
appeared in the issue of January
21, 1888. The title was changed
to “The Autobiography of a
Cannibal,” mentioned earlier in
this article, when it was in-
cluded in A Journalist and Two
Bears.
For some reason or another
the following paragraph from
the story, describing how the
murderer lived on his victim for
a fortnight, has always lived in
my memory:
I lived on him for the next fort-
night till he was all gone. I hunted
up an old gridiron and a saucepan
and cooked him in all sorts of ways,
but he was best when I fried him
with onions. Boasted he was in-
sipid, and he made the worst stew
I ever tasted, but grilled he was not
at all had. I got tired of him at
last, and I kept looking forward to
the time when he would be finished,
and then I could go back to civilisa-
tion and enjoy a club dinner once
more, and that kept me up.
. One day I mentioned the story
to Edmond and asked him
whether he had had anybody in
mind as the victim when he
wrote the story. “Yes,” he re-
plied, “William Macleod. He-
was the fattest man in The
Bulletin office.” Macleod was
managing-director at the time.
A contemporary said of Ed-
mond: “Jimmy was an inde-
fatigable worker. He would be-
gin work just before nine, shut
the doors and windows of his
office, turn on the heat, smoke
a chain of cigars and keep hard
at it until about ten at night.
Tremendous industry and a
patience -to investigate both sides
of a question were among the
qualities which contributed to
his greatness as a political
writer.”
One of his journalistic feats,
which can have few parallels,
occurred during the early
’nineties, when Federation was
becoming a vital question.
E. W. Cole, founder of Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne,
offered large cash prizes for the
best essays for and against
Federation. Three university
professors were appointed
judges, and they were swamped
with thousands of essays.
The prize for the best essay in
favor of Federation was won
by James Edmond; the prize
for the best essay attacking
Federation went to an entrant
signing himself Charles Wilson.
When Edmond, who happened
to be in Melbourne, called to
pick up his cheque he also
asked for Wilson’s money, in-
forming them that that name
was only another for himself.
Cole was astounded that one
person should have secured
both prizes witji so much com-
petition, but he declined to hand
over “Wilson’s” cheque on the
ground that it was “contrary to
the spirit of die competition.”
Edmond could so devote him-
self to a task in hand as to be-
come almost completely oblivi-
ous of the presence of others.
A classic example of his power
of self-absorption concerns a
stranger from the bush who
drifted into the office one day
in an aimless fashion. When
asked if he wanted anything he
said he would like to see the
editor. He was shown in to
Edmond, who rose as he en-
tered. The visitor gave his
name and where he came from
and said he “just wanted to see
the editor.”
“Pleased to let you,” said
Edmond. “Sit down.”
Edmond sat down also, and at
once turned to his work.
Minutes passed. The stranger
became more and more em-
barrassed. Finally, in a hot
sweat, he rose and said “Er,
well, I suppose I’d better be
going,”
“Well,” said Edmond, with-
out looking up, “if you must.
But you are not in the way.”
Generally, Edmond could dis-
play a remarkable tolerance to-
wards aimless interrupters. He
would see anyone at any time,
listen at length, talk his share
and seem to enjoy it. But even
he reached the end of his
patience one day with Henry
Lawson.
Henry had a habit of bring-
ing in his verse hot from the nib,
thrusting it under the editorial
nose and refusing to budge until
it was read. Edmond said
politely but firmly that he was
sorry, but he didn’t have time
at the moment; if the manu-
script was left for half an hour
the few minutes would be found
for reading it.
Henry stood firm, wagging
the manuscript in front of Ed-
mond’s face, and looking
vacantly towards the door.
Edmond stood it for a while.
Then, as Henry still looked
away and still wagged the verse,
he took out a cigar, lit it and
applied the match to a corner
of the manuscript. The verse
flared to ash, and, as far as is
known, that much of Lawson
was hot recaptured for the
judgment of posterity.
Concerning Edmond’s humor,
Mrs. William Macleod once told
of 'an evening when she and
her husband were, with Ed-
mond, looking at a hibiscus-
tree at the Macleod home in
Mosman. It was a knotty, con-
voluted, distorted tree. “I am
going to have it cut down,” re-
marked Mrs. Macleod. “White-
ants are in, it.” “Don’t,” pleaded
Edmond, “don’t destroy such a
splendid portrait of my friend,
the Premier.”
Harold Mercer (“Hamer”)
had a fund of Edmond stories.
I can recall one which Harold
told me at Edmond’s funeral.
“I was in a tram on Christmas
Eve with a couple of bottles of
beer,” said Harold. “I looked
up and saw Jimmy Edmond
opposite me. ‘Ha,’ said Ed-
mond, ‘I see you’ve been shop-
ping, too.’”
Harold, it will be remem-
bered, wrote his own obituary
for The Bulletin ; Edmond
wrote the following epitaph,
which he handed to me prior to
f his embarking on an air-trip in
the early days of such things,
not long before his death. “I
will leave this with you,” he
said, “just in case of accident”:
How can a man die better
Than falling from a cloud I
The blue sky for a canopy,
The green grass for a shroud.
Edmond died 21 years ago at
Wahroonga (Sydney) at the age
of 74. His extraordinary per-
tinacity was shown in his last
severe illness. Though he had
for many years suffered terribly
from diabetes and Bright’s
(Continued on page 30)


II
Ml
Established J.BUB in Reign 0 1
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
JfJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE '
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: CHOUGH AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS J
E. E. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS.R.
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H. DIOKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL,
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE AND E.D.C.
It is ironic that, although the
European Army under the pro-
posed European Defence Com-
munity is “a device of French
authorship to allay French fears
of German militarism,” all the
other five members except
Holland (which has ratified it)
wait on France’s ratification of
the scheme.
French vacillation moved the
U.S. Secretary of State, John
Foster Dulles, to threaten an
“agonising reappraisal” of U.S.
policy in Europe, “agonising”
because, as C. L. Sulzberger puts
it in “New York Times,”
“American policy on the'•Con-
tinent is founded upon, alliance
with France. This is sometimes
a political embarrassment, but is
a geographic and strategic
reality. Apart from the French
dam to a turgid Communist tide
in South-East Asia, Metropolitan
and North African France
control both sides of the Mediter-
ranean and the main lines of
communication from those and
Atlantic waters into Europe’s
heart.
“Without a French keystone,
the Nato arch spanning Soviet
peripheries from Turkey up to
Norway would collapse. For
this reason Soviet propaganda
and Soviet diplomacy are mak-
ing every effort to detach France
from her pro-American ties.”
“It is important, however, - ’
comments London “Sunday
Times,” “to understand the
reasons for France’s uncertainty.
The drain of Indo-China saps the
forces she can supply for the
European Army. Might she not
be dragged, as the weaker
partner, into a* war to regain
Germany’s eastern provinces?
With centuries of history to whet
her fears, France dreads above
all being left, in the European
Army, dominated by Germany,
without the support of British
and American ground-troops in
Europe.
“There is a widespread feeling
in France that ultimately the
American people’s demand to
‘bring the boys home’ will be
irresistible. Inis would not be
so calamitous fpr France if
Britain were to join the E.D.C.;
but Britain has its own reasons
for not so committing its small
disposable force.”
To these objections may be
added those of M. Moch, as
quoted in “Manchester
Guardian”: “What in the half-
century of the treaty’s initial
duration will be the fate of
France as a Great Power de-
prived of most of her Army and
still uncertain as to the form that
a United Europe is to take?
How are we to conceive of the-
diplomatic action of a national
sovereign Government whose
New York “Herald Tribune”
PROFESSIONAL TRAPPER
soldiers depend on an authority
other than its own?”
It is worth noting, too, as
“U.S. News and World Report”
points out, that French
opponents of E.D.C. “figure that
they can counter the U.S. threat
by one of their own to end the
war in Indo-China, which the
U.S. is largely paying for but
not fighting. The French idea
is that the United States will pay
almost any price to prevent the
Communists from making
further gains in South-East
Asia.”
. Naturally, such a set-up makes
a nice pool for Russia to fish in
along the lines mentioned by
Sulzberger, while French poli-
ticians opposing E.D.C. are, in
turn, using the Soviet’s
approaches for their own ends —
“the assumed possibility of some
accord with Moscow, rarely de-
fined, serves as one of the main
reasons or pretexts to oppose
ratification of the European
Army treaty in the near.future
and to shy away from other
forms of European integration”
(Harold Callender, “N. Y.
Times”).
This Franco-Russian dallying
has prompted “U.S. News and
World Report” to ask if French
strategy is to “forget the U.S.,
tie-up with the Soviet and rely
on Moscow for ‘security’ against
any new German army.”
“In Paris,” the same paper
comments, “new life is being
talked into a 1944 military
alliance between France and the
Soviet Union. A group of
French political leaders has paid
one friendly call behind the Iron
Curtain, to Poland, and other
such trips are in the works. In-
side every major French party
there are stirrings for some sort
of tie-up with the Soviet world.
“Back of these developments
is a move by conservative poli-
ticians —working with the Com-
munists—to kill -the European
Army plan that would put 12
German divisions into West
Europe. Politicians are playing
on France’s traditional fear of
German soldiers to encourage
deals with the Soviets as the
safest way to keep Germany
disarmed.
“Moscow has been quick to get
in on the act. The Soviet radio,
beamed to France, for weeks has
been stressing the historical
friendship between the two
countries. Ffenchmen are
repeatedly reminded that the
1944 French-Russian treaty is
still in operation.
“Said one typical Moscow
broadcast: ‘The most farsighted
French leaders recall again and
again that the decisive barrier
to German aggression has always
been an effective mutual assist-
ance of European States, situated
both to the west and east of
Germany, and primarily French-
Russian collaboration. They
have not forgotten in Paris that
the Soviet Union has carried out
an immutable policy of friend-
ship vis-d-vis France.’
“This line from Moscow is
attracting attention in France.
What bothers American and
other Western officials now is
that Daladier and those with
him, by playing on French dis-
trust of Germany, may mislead
'many into thinking that Sovjet
Russia really is a peace-loving
country. Jf that happens,
France—the base for Western
defences in Europe—might slip
behind the Iron Curtain and
topple the entire defence struc-
ture that has been built up in the
West since World War II.”
Against such pessimistic views,
of course, it is worth remember-
ing that French Foreign Minister
Bidault spoke up strongly at
Berlin on unity of the Western
Powers, and that the semi-official
French Institute of Public
Opinion reports that, at its poll
in September" 1953, 46 per cent,
voted for E.D.C., 22 per cent,
against it, while the remainder
abstained or had no opinion to
express.
Possibly those who voted for
E.D.C. were thiftking in much the
same way as the “Milwaukee
Journal,” which says, “France
seems to have two choices:
“Approve the E.D.C. and join
with Germany, Italy, Belgium,
Holland and Luxemburg in pool-
ing armed forces under a united
command, in establishing a joint
defence-fund, supply-system and
armaments-programme, and in
taking a long step toward a
united Europe. This would give
France a voice in the control of
German rearmament and military
forces that it could have in no
other way.
“Or, France could reject the
E.D.C. treaties. This would
undoubtedly mean restoration of
a German national army. Over
this, of course, France would
have neither influence nor
control.
“Actually, France only
‘seems’ to have the above choices,
for France has no choice at all
France is helpless to stand alone
against either Russia or
Germany. The German armies
demonstrated in 1870, in 1914
and in 1940 that France could
not stand against them.
“Defensively, France has but
one course —to get whole-
heartedly into the European
Defence Community and work
with the free nations of Western
Europe, including Germany.”
Russian Welfare State
Commenting on the latest
Russian drive to increase pro-
duction of consumer-goods for
the home-market and improve
the lot of the Soviet’s multi-
tudes, London “Financial
Times” notes :
“For the individual Soviet
citizen, the new welfare drive
means 1 l-3yd. of woollen cloth
per head in 1954 and Hyd. in
1955; some 2yds. of silken
fabrics next year and 3yds. the
year after. There will be three
shoes for him in 1955, as against
three pairs of shoes a person in
the United States.
“Cigarette consumption per
head of adult population in
Russia will reach three a day
as against 11 in the United
States (200,000 million annually
in Russia and 394,000 million in
America).
“In two years’ time each Soviet
citizen will be able to buy two
tins of vegetables or meat a
month, but just now two persons
have to share one tin. Twenty-
five persons, more or less, will
have to share Iyd. of Turkish
towels in 19£4, when there also
will be one refrigerator for
every 4000 Soviet citizens, and
one vacuum-cleaner for every
2000. By 1955, when the new
programme is in full swing,
Soviet consumers will get Iyd. of
Turkish towels to be shared out
between 15 of them, one re-
frigerator per 600, one vacuum-
cleaner per 400, and one gramo-
phone or one camera per about
200.”
Indonesia
The Communist problem in
Indonesia has been noted by
several observers. Currently,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” cor-
respondent Robert Franklin
reports that Chinese Communists
have had more success there than
anywhere else in South-East
Asia.
The following comment is
condensed from a thoughtful
“Foreign Affairs” article by
Walter H. Mallory, an executive
director of the U.S. Council on
Foreign Relations who lately
spent a, year in Indonesia.
Though he is largely concerned
with relations between the U.S.A.
and Indonesia, he also presents
a picture of considerable interest
to Australia.
“Americans,” Mallory notes,
“are not popular in South and
South-east Asia, and what the
inhabitants in that wide area take
to be American policy is liked
even less. Indonesia, perhaps
because she so recently threw
off her colonial status, but for a
good many other reasons too,
is the focal point for criticism
and distrust.
“The factors in each country
which have brought about this
tmhappy state of affairs are
numerous and diverse. No
generalisation explains them.
Indian neutrality, Burmese
nationalism, Hong Kong’s need
for trade, the low price of rubber
—all these have their part in
creating the picture of Uncle
Sam as an overbearing, selfish,
malevolent figure whose altruism
is but a cloak for sinister designs
and whose purposes can result
only in the enslavement of the
masses, or, worse yet, in pro-
voking World War 111. And
through this fabric of misunder-
standing and fear can be clearly
discerned the Red thread of Com-
munist propaganda—persistently
magnifying differences, ascribing
false purposes, manufacturing
lies, in fact utilising any device
to bemuse the ignorant, deceive
the poor and suborn the
ambitious.
“An American going to Indo-
nesia for the first time since it
achieved independence looks
back with satisfaction to the part
the United States played in the
last war in defeating the Japanese
and thus rescuing Indonesia
from alien occupation. He
knows that the United States
gave Indonesia strong diplo-
matic support in her struggle for
independence after the war—
possibly the decisive support.
Strongly anti-colonial and anti-
imperialist himself, aware of his
friendly interest in this new
country, the visitor expects to
be greeted as the representative
of a friendly nation.
“He finds that Indonesians do
not think the United States is
anti-colonial at all, but the lead-
ing imperialist Power. He finds
that many of the people of these
islands welcomed the Japanese
invaders, who, they believed,
were rescuing them from white
domination. And he is astonished
to realise that virtually all Indo-
nesians take it for granted that
the United States never was their
ally, but has actually sided witli
their enemy, the Dutch. Thus
they are convinced that it was
not American sympathy, arms
and influence which assisted
Indonesia in gaining freedom
but Russia’s ‘firm stand agains
Western Imperialism.’ ”
Indonesia, Mallory continues
is run by only a handful of mer
who were educated.by the Dutct
in Holland or in the islands
Politically, they are “consider-
ably left of centre,” and
although they deny it, the}
appear to be overwhelming!}
anti-capitalist. Their experience
of capitalism has been unfor-
tunate. In theory they know
only the Marx version, while
their practical experience has
been confined to European
varieties now discarded by most
of Europe and by the United
States many years ago. As a
result, they have an almost
frightening misconception of the
American capitalist—“a figure as
abhorrent to us as he is to them;
but it is not easy to make them
understand that, in fact, he
doesn’t exist”:
“The Indonesians, quite
naturally, confhse capitalism with
colonialism. After 300 years
of Dutch rule they found them-
selves largely illiterate, with only
the rudiments of a system of
public health (Djakarta, the
capital city, has no adequate
water-supply and uses open
canals for its sewage). Their
foreign trade was in the hands
of the Netherlands and their
retail business in the hands of
the Chinese; Indonesians were
for the' most part common
laborers, who worked at a piti-
fully small wage.
“Meanwhile, however, their
islands had been developed
economically to a high degree.
Djakarta had an excellent port,
there was a good inter-island
transportation system, excellent
irrigation works, roads and rail-
roads, tinmines, oilfields, vast
rubber and tea and tobacco and


ENJOY
Australia’s singing favourites, Neil Williams and Lily
Connors, plus Gus Merzi’s trio and compere Leon
Becker, present six songs you asked to hear in radio’s
gayest new musical show.
MACOIJAIIIE
SERVICE
ROADCft S T i N G
2GB SAW 4BH SDN
6IX 7HO TLA
palm-oil estates —all built to
develop the riches of the Indies
but to funnel them away through
Holland ‘for somebody else’s
benefit.’
“Capitalism was used as an
instrument of colonialism. There
were no social controls such as
America has devised, no attempt
to seek the just distribution of
the rewards of effort which can
make capitalism the servant of
the people. To the Indonesian,
experience seemed to prove the
Communist thesis that capitalism
is simply the exploiter of the
masses, and against' this back-
ground it is difficult, if not
impossible, for Indonesians to
understand the American system
which is called by the same
name.
“We like to point out to them
that this system has brought
160,000,000 Americans the
highest standard of living the
world has ever known, but still
they mistrust it; and they mis-
trust us the more because we
are so sure that it* is the best
possible plan for organising
society.”
The most fertile field for mis-
understanding, however, lies in
economic relations. Rubber
makes up over 50 per cent, of
Indonesia’s exports, and, since
it is sold mainly to the U.S., it
provides an even larger share of
her dollar exchange.
“The average price for rubber,
1935-39, was 16.09 cents a
pound. In 1949 it was 17.6 cents.
In 1951 it skyrocketed to an
average price of 60.9 cents. In
1953, the exceptional needs of
the Korean war having been
satisfied, it fell. to around 20
cents. Tin, which comprises
about 10 per cent, of Indonesia’s
exports, followed a somewhat
similar pattern. From 1950 to
1953 the revenues of the Indo-
nesian Government increased
abnormally, and the reserve of
foreign exchange mounted even
more gratifyingly. The inexperi-
enced Government, not realising
the temporary character of this
phenomenon, went in for an
orgy of spending—not an unpre-
cedented response among either
Socialist or capitalist Govern-
ments, one must admit.
“But while such policies will
damage any State, they can be
wellnigh fatal to a new country.
Indonesia bought 6000 auto-
mobiles for Government officials
to ride in, 100 modern diesel
engines for a railway system
which, because of unsettled con-
ditions, was hauling only about
50 per cent, of the. normal
amount of freight, hundreds of
air - conditioned passenger - cars
(even including third - class
carriages). The Ministry of
Health bought large quantities
of medical supplies and equip-
ment. The Ministry of Economic
Affairs made huge funds avail-
able for new enterprises.
Thousands of new houses were
built for Government employees
—an admirable accomplishment
had there been the money for it.”
In 1952 the money began to
run out and foreign exchange
reserves to dwindle, and,
although the Indonesian Minister
for Finance tried to meet the
situation with a drastic Budget,
“the horse was more than half-
way out of the barn, and the task
of pushing him back in has not
yet been accomplished”;
“This unfortunate situation
bears with, increasing heaviness
on Indonesian business, and on
the standard of living of the
people. One can have nothing
but sympathy for them in this
predicament. But an American
finds that sympathy somewhat
hard to maintain when it is sug-
gested on every side that these
troubles are due in large measure
to United States greed and the
machinations of Wall-street,
Of course, no one would seek
to deny that the drop in the price
°£ rubber had a direct
effect on the Indonesian
economy; but that the fall in
those prices was the result of an
evil plot on the part of the United
States is nonsense,”
f J^ e ] re remain the different
attitudes toward the organisation
of society. The few Indonesian
leaders who were educated
abroad went , almost exclusively
to the Netherlands, where, since
they were anti-colonial and anti-
imperialist, they fell in with
Left-wing groups. Many parti-
cipated in underground work
against the Germans during the
war and were thus trained as con-
spirators and revolutionists;
some joined the Communist
“New York Times"
NO SCARECROW
party, They learned nothing at
first-hand about the U.S. and
not much more about any other
Western country.
As a result, Indonesian leaders
think of government as an agency
to control all the activities of a
country. “They have had no
experience of a Government be-
longing to and accountable to
the people. There has never
been a national election in Indo-
nesia, either before the revolu-
tion or after it. These leaders
like the idea of democracy,
despite their lack of experience
with it; they are suspicious of
private enterprise; and they
despise capitalism, or what they
have been told is capitalism”:
These prejudices, this unsure-
ness, and withal this sincere wish
to build a democracy, supply the
clue to Indonesia’s attitude
toward foreign aifairs, which her
leaders describe as a ‘positive,
independent policy.’ They are
determined to isolate Indonesia
politically from the rest of the
world until the country gets on
its feet. This is not called
neutrality, but independence;
and by ‘positive’ they mean that
it will, they hope, leave the new
State free to move in whatever
direction seems most advan-
tageous. From Indonesia’s
recent votes in the United
Nations, it would appear that, in
the view of the Government, this
advantage lies more in siding
with the Russians than with the
free world.
“The vast majority of Indo-
nesians are not yet politically
conscious. They were, of course,
in favor of ending Dutch rule
and gaining their freedom. The
process of political education
which freedom requires, how-
ever, they find slow and painful.
The villages have an old form
of communal organisation, and
are essentially self-governed as
far as social and local economic
affairs are concerned ; but their
political experience does not go
beyond the community. They
have little interest in national
affairs, and international ques-
tions are entirely beyond them.”
Going on to consider ways of
“making a friend of Indonesia,”
Mallory dismisses grants and
loans as but temporary expedi-
ents, and propaganda as com-
paratively futile;
“Much has been said here of
Indonesian hostility. It should
be made clear that this applies to
Americans in general, more par-
ticularly to American institu-
tions, and most particularly to
American policy. It does not
apply to individuals. Actually
Indonesians are extremely
courteous, friendly and kind.
They are a simple and easy-
going people who have under-
taken great responsibilities and
are acutely aware of the diffi-
culties they face and of their
lack of experience. We, on our
part, must recognise these diffi-
culties and be ready with both
forbearance and courtesy. That
will help more than our money.”
"Lady of the Snows”
Kipling’s Canada, asserting the
right to be mistress of her own
house, is, on all current evi-
dence, making a remarkably good
fist of the housekeeping, so much
so that “New York Times” is
moved to comment that
“Canada’s prosperity, zest and
material expansion provide a
bright spot in the world today”:
“One gets a positive glow of
pleasure in the contemplation of
a young nation coming to a
rich maturity so quickly and
honorably. To see such progress
in a nation devoted to democ-
racy and free enterprise is a
double satisfaction.
“Canada is linked like a Siam-
ese twin to the United States,
and it is estimated that about 25
per cent, of American cash ex-
ports go to Canada, American
investments over the border are
now in the neighborhood of
$8,000,000,000 and are rising at
the rate of $500,000,000 a year.
“Canada’s economy is so
buoyant and expansive that
nothing short of an American
slump could hurt the country
badly. There isn’t a country in
the world with a long-term
future as rosy as that of Canada,
and there is only one other
nation in the Western Hemi-
sphere with equal potentialities
to become a world Power. That
is Brazil, which is squandering
her wonderful possibilities in
political weakness and economic
improvidence.”
, More-or-less returning the
compliment, Toronto “Globe
and Mail” comments:
“At the turn of the century,
Canada had just - 5,000,000
people. Today it has slightly over
15.000. Just a hundred
years ago, a roughly similar
statement could have been made
about the United States. At the
turn of the century (that is, in
1800) it ’ had just 5,000,000
people. Fifty years later it had
only managed to raise that
figure to 23,000,000. It was not
a small country then; but
neither was it a large one. Cer-
tainly, few people thought it
would become the giant it is
today.
“What they did not set was
that during the next 50 years
more than 14,000,000 immi-
grants would stream into the
United States, with arrivals in
some of those years nudging
800.000. and that the effect of
this would be to triple the
country’s population, with the
1900 census showing more than
75.000. Further mass immi-
gration during the first three de-
cades of the present century pro-
duced the 160,000,000 Americans
there are today.
“The growing Canada of the
1950’s may well consider the
growing America of the 1850’s.
Like us, the United States
started with a handful of people.
Like us, it dallied and doubted
before committing itself to a
policy of rapid growth through
large-scale immigration. But
having made the decision, the
Americans stayed with it. None
of them today can regret the fact
that they did.
“We can do with the last half
of this century what the Ameri-
cans did with the last half of the
century before it. The next 50
years should see Canada’s popu-
lation tripled from 15,000,000
to 45,000,000. No Canadian,
looking back, would regret it.
Were it not done, there could be
ample cause for regret.”
Various Voices
Peter Thorneycroft (President
of Britain’s Board of Trade ):
“We [the people of Britain] are
at a perilous moment in our
national affairs. We face formid-
able competition in world
markets, from Germany, from
Japan, and not least from the
United States. The margin be-
tween success and failure is a
narrow one, and it can quite
often be measured by a little
lower price, a little better quality,
a little quicker delivery-date.
Which way the balance turns will
not be determined primarily by
Governments alone. It will be
determined by management and
men.”
Lord Douglas of Barloch : “In
this era the greatest danger to
human freedom is the specialist
or the expert who wishes to
impose on others a pattern of
conduct which he thinks is best.”
Indian Prime Minister Nehru :
“I am convinced it was the right
step for us to remain in the Com-
monwealth. It was right both
from our point of view and from
that of larger world problems.
There could be no association of
nations with as little binding-
force or interference with each
other. We would welcome not
only this but any other associa-
tion with other countries.”
Anthony William Tuke (chair-
man, Barclay’s Bank ); “The
troubles in Kenya, British
Guiana and Uganda may be
described as the growing-pains
of native peoples, struggling to
emerge from their former state
of complete dependence on their
white governors and encouraged
by false friends to adopt violent
policies. This discontent is an
inescapable result of the impact
of education on virgin soil, and
we must not be surprised if firm
and patient cultivation is needed
for several generations before
the weeds are choked by healthy
growths.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “It is
important when you haven’t got
any ammunition to have a butt
on your rifle,”
Sir Richard Burbidge (chair-
man of Harrod’s, London );
“Department-stores should erect
a large public monument to the
inventor of television,”


[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
* Legal Notice,
TO JOHN WALTER SMITH formerly of
67 Robinson Street Dandenong in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that an action
has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Victoria 1953 No. 1958
by JOSEPH SIMMONS of 7 Station
Street Ascot Vale in the said State in
which the Plaintiff’s claim is for £BOO
due on a dishonored cheque and interest
thereon at 5 p.c. AND it has been
ordered that service of the Writ in the
action on you be effected by this adver-
tisement You may enter an appearance
to the said action at the Office of the
Prothonotary Law Courts William Street
Melbourne on or before the 19th day of
March 1954 In default of such appear-
ance judgment may be entered against
you. DATED the 18th day of February,
1954.—WEIGALL & CROWTHER, 459
Little Collins Street. Melbourne, Plain-
tiff’s Solicitors.
Missing Friends
GEORGE CHRISTOPHER MORANT, last
heard of at Albert Park in 1931. —WILL
anyone knowing the present address of
the abovenamed please communicate with
ABBOTT, STILLMAN & WILSON, Soli-
citors, 422 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne ? .■
WOULD - JOHN JOSEPH JARRAD, for-
merly 'of Williamstown in the State
of Victoria, and lately believed to be at
Glenelg, South Australia, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, please communicate
with JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, of
218 Nicholson Street, Footscray?
WOULD RONALD HENRY HARDIE, for-
merly of Ballarat Road, Maidstone, in the
State of Victoria, but now of parts un-
known, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nicholson
Street, Footscray?
Divorce Notices
TO ERNEST ROBERT COX (Respondent)
late of C/o The Commonwealth Bank of
Australia Sydney New South Wales Aus-
tralia. —A Petition for Divorce has been
filed against you Upon an application by
letter to the REGISTRAR, The Divorce
Registry Somerset House Strand London
W.C.2 England a copy of the Petition will
be sent If within 70 days hereafter no
application has been made nor appear
ance entered the Court may hear the Peti-
tion and pronounce judgment. —B. LONG.
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH MURPHY late of the
Lismore District. —TAKE NOTICE that
IRIS LENORE MURPHY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 240 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 3rd day of May
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from S. J. BULL, SON &
SCHMIDT, Solicitors. 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
10 THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Shark-lookouts, hooters under
the water, bubbles, lights under
the water, evil-smelling sub-
stances, have all been proposed,
and sometimes tried, as protective
treasures for mass-bafhing. But
it is only the exceptional shark
which attacks, and none of these
Pleasures guards against the
exception.
The only thing which
guarantees absolute protection is
a pool totally enclosed by a
mesh-net of an electric current.
Clearly, this is not practicable
on the open surf beaches or the
rocky headlands where spear-
men forgather.
So what chance has the
average spearman or surfer?
The odds against ah attack have
been calculated at something like
nine million to one, while the
odds against a fatality are very
much greater. It is safer to swim
at one of Sydney’s surf beaches
than to cross one of Sydney’s
streets, even though it is prob-
able that “man-eating” sharks
swim unseen near bathers every
day during the summer.
What is the spearman to do
when he leaves off hunting and
becomes the hunted? Every
expert has his theory. Give the
shark a wave, or a shout, poke
him, give him a burst of copper
acetate, never wallow in the
water like a wounded fish. Hav-
ing a theory is one thing: staking
your life on it is another. And
in this case, where a man’s only
defence is a bluff, there doesn’t
seem much to stake your life on,
anyway. But bluffing is a recog-
nised defence-mechanism in the
animal kingdom, and thousands
live by bluff alone.
In the long run, though, it all
depends on the shark’s appetite,
and if he wants you badly
enough, he will have you.
With most of the sharks I’ve
seen. I’ve done nothing but
watch, waiting for them to make
the first move, and trying to guess
each time whether the man-eater
has come for dinner, or is just a
little curious. Luckily, they all
seemed to be in a cautious mood
rather than a hungry one.
And the odds are that this
will always be the case. It would
take more than a nine million to
one chance to keep me out of the
water —and, anyway, it’s safer
than the roads.
disease, though his eyesight was
nearly gone and he had had a
stroke which almost deprived
him of his power of speech, he
did not cease to write for The
Bulletin until a few weeks be-
fore his de^th.
On the yellow autumn after-
noon in 1933, when Edmond
was buried, I journeyed by car
with S. H. Prior, John Bede
Dailey and David Adams along
the Pacific Highway to Wah-
roonga. There, on the veranda
of Edmond’s pleasant, red-
bricked cottage, peaceful amidst
its lawns and tall surrounding
gums, S. H. Prior said to John
Dailey “There never was any-
one like Jimmy in Australian
journalism.”
There never was, and, I dare-
say, there never will be. Jimmy
was unique.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Young married man, university
graduate, Commonwealth public ser-
vant, brought up on The Bulletin,
wants furnished or unfurnished flat
or cottage, Sydney.—s73o.
American lady would like to
correspond with Bulletin readers.
(To Miss Joan K. Samuel, 350 West
88th-street, New York 24, New York,
U.S.A.)
To correspond with young
Bulletin readers about 19 or 20.
(Reply direct to Miss Nou Toy Chun,
5 Summit-street, Tenafly, New
Jersey, U.S.A.)
Information Sought
Did the N.Z. rail disaster last
Christmas Day have the greatest
deathroll of any such disaster?
It was certainly one of the worst
of such tragedies, with 155 dead.
The greatest deathroll is believed to
occurred in an Italian accident in
1944 when a crowded train stalled
in a narrow tunnel and over 500
people were suffocated by smoke.
There were only six survivors. Since
1881 there have been four other
tragedies with deathrolls of more
than 200. On May 22, 1915, two
passenger-trains and a troop-train
collided near Gretna (Scotland), with
a loss of 227. The three others were
—in 1881 over 200 died when a train
fell into a river in Mexico; in Japan
on Jan. 29, 1940, over 200 died in a
collision; and on Oct. 22, 1949, there
was a similar loss of life when the
Danzig-Warsaw express was derailed.
Australia’s worst disaster occurred in
Victoria on Easter Monday, 1908,
when an express-train crashed into a
stationary train. Fifty-four people
were killed and over 70 seriously
injured.
♦ * * *
♦
How is wood prepared to make a
school-blackboard ?
The wood must be smooth and
free from knots, shakes and cracks.
Proportions for dressing are ?lb.
shellac, igal. methylated-spirit, 2oz.
lampblack, 2oz. powdered emery and
2oz. ultramarine-blue. Dissolve the
shellac in the spirit. Place the lamp-
black, emery and ultramarine on a
cheesecloth strainer and pour on
part of the shellac solution, stirring
constantly and gradually adding the
solution until all the powders have
passed through the strainer. Stir well
and use quickly.
* * * *
Some particulars about the Peak
Downs (Q-} sorghum - growing
scheme?. Was it Socialised farming?
What is happening there now?
Yes, it was an attempt at Socialisa-
tion, and, as apparently with most
Socialistic experiments, it was a com-
plete failure. Poor seasons, flood
and a plague of .mice did not help,
but failure to counteract them can be
put down to Socialist method.
Also, other concomitants of Social-
ism, “go-slbw” and overtime rackets,
etc., contributed to the scheme’s
downfall. It became known as the
“Peak Downs fiasco.” The area
originally set aside was 729,000-odd
acres, which was to be controlled by
the “Queensland-British Food Cor-
poration” (it was to produce little
or no food). The h.q. were at Peak
Downs, established there after Royal
Assent had been given to Queensland
Parliament on April 2, 1948. The
plan was to grow sorghum (an
untried crop in the area) to be sold
either as grain or fed to pigs—both
for delivery, eventually, to Britain.
(The Labor party was, of course, m
office at that time in Britain.) Sun-
flowers also were to be grown and
crushed for oil, and pigs were to be
raised. (Instead of the estimated
500,000 pigs, only 9000 were raised
in five years.) By 1950-51 cost per
ton for sorghum was £55 65., as
against the estimated £5 12s. For
the four years to Sept. 30, 1952, the
total loss to the British and Queens-
land Governments was £A826,161,
and in late 1953 Queensland Premier
Gair introduced a bill to wind it up.
The corporation is at present in pro-
cess of liquidation, and the Queens-
land Lands Department is surveying
the area for division into farming-
blocks for both agriculture and
grazing.
* * ♦ *
Is '‘different to’’’ or "different
from” correct ?
Customary grammatical usage is
“different from.” But Fowler justi-
fies “different to,” and says that
either is right. Because of “the dead
set made against different to by mis-
taken critics,” continues Fowler,
many people think it is wrong; how-
ever, it is “found in writers of all
ages” ( Oxford English Dictionary ).
The reason it is thought to be wrong
is because one does not say “differ
to.” But Fowler points out that that
does not make it a rule; the
verbs “accord” and “agree” take
“with,” and “pursue” is followed
directly by the noun, but theif
participles and derivatives “accord-
ing,” “agreeably” and “pursuant”
take “to” —i.e., “agree with instruc-
tions,” “agreeably to instructions.”
* * * *
Formula for making sawdust-
concrete and for coloring?
Melt one quart glue in two gallons
water, leave till nearly cold, then
stir-in equal parts of sawdust and
prepared chalk until* it becomes thick
and plastic. Lay down at least six
inches in thickness, using a trowel
dipped in the water to level it.
Leave till dry and hard before using
it. The addition of a little creosote
will repel white-ants, which are fond
of this material. Color with any of
the -sdry colors used by house-
painters, red oxide being a shade
which wears well.
* * * *
»
Details concerning the Cutty Sark
up to the time she was sold to the
Portuguese in 1895 ?
the Cutty Sark was launched at
Dumbarton in 1869, her owner,
Captain John Willis, of London,
having decided to challenge the
Aberdeen clipper Thermopylae, which
had in 12 months became undisputed
queen of the flyers. She was only
963 tons gross, and her designer,
Hercules Clinton, had given no
promise of producing such a master-
piece. * In the China tea trade the
Cutty Sark did nothing remarkable
in the way of fast passages, and it
was not until she entered the Aus-
tralian, wool trade that she showed
her real mettle. Her best passage
was from Sydney to Ushant in 67
days. This time was actually beaten
by the Thermopylae, but it was the
Cutty Sark’s consistency which
earned her the title of flyer. Her
slowest passage was 93 days, and
she rarely exceeded 82 days between
1883 and 1895.
* * * *
What are the horse latitudes ?
Origin of the name ?
The belts of calms and variable
breezes at the polar edge of the
n.-e. and s.-e. trades. According to
the New English Dictionary two
explanations have been given of the
origin of the name: one that the
calm kills horses on a sailing-ship,
the other that the name signifies the
unruly and boisterous nature of these
winds compared with the pleasant
trades. The name is commonly
applied to the permanent belt of high
atmospheric pressure which encircles
the globe in 30deg. to 35deg. from
the Equator.
♦ ♦ ♦ »
Manner of fishing for black bream;
tackle, bait, etc., used ?
The hand-line is preferred. Use
a No. 2 or No. 3 gut, terminating
in a yard or two of transparent gut-
cast; the hook, a No. 1.0 or No. 2.0
(Bartlett B 7215); a bullet sinker is
attached about one inch above the
hook. A landing-net is necessary.
Bait may be prawn with head and
scales intact, and fixed on hook to
appear as natural as possible.
Mullet-gut, beach-worms and pipi
are also used with success. The line
should be held very lightly and the
fish allowed to take the bait a yard
or two before striking. The best
grounds are usually found in
proximity to oyster-beds, and the
best burley is freshly-opened oyster-
shells. Bream find an oyster irresist-
ible, but there is considerable diffi-
culty in securing the oyster to the
hook. Night-fishing is most
successful.
* * * *
Origin and brief history of the
“military tattoo’ 1 ’ ?
When William of Orange reorgan-
ised the British Army he introduced
the beating of drums in a town or
village «occupied by troops to call
them to final muster for the day, and
to indicate the time for the closing
of public-houses. Starting from the
guard-room the drummers played
“First Post,” and then paraded
through the streets of the town. On
returning to the guard-room they
drummed “Last Post” to indicate the
close of the period of the tattoo.
♦ * * *
What was the festival known as
Saturnalia ?
It was a Roman festival in honor
of Saturnus. It began on Decem-
ber 17, and lasted for several days,
its object probably being to cele-
brate the end of the vintage and
harvesting. It was a season of re-
joicing, merriment and licence, dur-
ing which no business was transacted.
Slaves were allowed freedom and
dined at their masters’ board.
* * * *
What are angel sharks, and are
many species to be found in Austra-
lian waters ?
Sometimes called monk-fish, these
are members of the family Squati-
nidce, a group transitional between
sharks and rays. The body is de-
pressed and flat, like that of a ray,
and the greatly enlarged pectoral fins
form an imperfect disk; but they are
separated from the head, instead of
being united with it as in rays.
Further, the gill openings are on the
side of the neck, as in sharks, instead
of on the lower surface. The
commonest Australian form is
Squatina australis, which occurs in
shallow waters south of the tropics,
and attains a length of .five feet.
Another Australian species, S. tergo-
cellata, is known from a single
small specimen trawled in deep water
in the Great Australian Bight.
* * * *
Where was the Siegfried Line in
France during World War I ?
It was the name given by the Ger-
mans to the line taken by their
armies in France in September, 1918..
It ran through Moeuvres, Flesquieres,
across the Canal du Nord, Havrin-
court, Trescault, Gouzeaucourt,
Villers-Guislain, and eastward of
Hargicourt. The British victory of
Epehy, which was complete on Sep-
tember 18, led to the abandonment
of this line.
* * * *
, Approximate date of Chippendale’s
furniture productions ? What were
his outstanding periods and varia-
tions ?
Chippendale’s work dates between
1740 and 1780. He worked mainly
in mahogany and satinwood, and
his early style shows strength and
stability, with a very simple grace
and beauty of line. His second
period was markedly Gothic, with
pointed arches, quatrefoils, pillows
and fretted patterns, much less
suited to furniture than the early
designs. The third period was
influenced by the Louis XV furniture
and was rococo with shells and
scrolls. Later, when the fashion for
Chinese goods and lacquer work
came to England, he turned out
pagoda-like pieces. His earliest work
is the most valuable, but even the
Chinese and rococo pieces have the
grace of design which marks the
great craftsman. He published a
book of furniture designs, which
have been employed, with a little
variety, by master-craftsmen ever
since.
Brief Answers
H. 8.: The Tropic of Capricorn is
about 4i miles in a direct line south
of the Post Office, Rockhampton
(Q.); the distance via the Bruce
Highway is about 5£ miles PG• '•
The best spray to use would be
sodium chlorate at a strength of lib.
per gallon of water —a repeat treat-
ment would probably be necessary.
Periwinkle is quite resistant to the
various hormone herbicides
R.J.R.: (1) Federico as Mephistofeles
died on the last note he sang as he
descended under the stage on the
opening night on March 3, 1888.
Nellie Stewart was Marguerite. The
audience left knowing nothing of the
tragedy and when the flag was
hoisted half-mast at the theatre it got
around that it was Nellie Stewart
who had died. (2) The Fred Leslie,
Nellie Farren co. opened on Satur-
day, April 20, 1887 W.E.W.:
The Chinese stamp (attached) is one
of a set in commemoration of the
75th anniversary of the establishment
of the China Merchants Steam Navi-
gation Co. in 1872 P.A.S.: The
population of Tasmania at June 30
last was 315,955, made up of 163,002-
males and 152,953 females. There was
a natural increase of 5337 in the 12
months to June 30 last... .R.H.:
Bradman’s scores in the Tests against
India (played in Australia, 1947-48)
were 185 (first Test), 13 (second), 132
and 127 not out (third), 201 (fourth)
and 57, retired hurt (fifth). Brad-
man’s 100th first-class century was
his 172 for an Australian XI v. India
at Sydney, Nov., 1947.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.A.S.: Several rows from the
front rank E.W.: Not listening to
that kookaburra’s raucous notes....
E.C.: No milk for the cat... .8J.0.:
Why not give us something Austra-
lian? ... .W.A.W.: We left it to
shriek in loneliness J.P.: After
reading that we felt that we deserved
a long, cool beer A.G.G.: You
say nothing new about a waterfall.
. ...P.A.R.: Suggest that you send
them to a paper that prints that class
of material E.P.: The best solu-
tion would be to get the roof mended.
K.R.R.: The basket is overflow-
ing with bushfire poems R.R.8.:
Dream poems merely make us
sleepy... .J. 1.: Lfnimpressed as to
what happened in the clover
N.E.W.: Not shelling out for “Corn
in Egypt” M.S.: Not this trip.
M.D.: Others have dofie the Murray
very much better... .A.C.8.: It wears
thin E.M.: Back it goes to the
wheatbelt J.A.P.: It finished up
below F.P.: Keep on trying
R.T.: No room for the sea-slug
M.DJ.R.: We can appreciate your
sentiments, if not your poetry....
A. Youtr magpie is winging it
home F.R.R.: Not in our pages,
thank y0u....N.G.: Why not send it
to the gas company? ... .R.R.: Away,
away J.F.: We left it shouting
“Hooray” and “Hooroo” in the
basket... .L.H.: Neat, but it didn’t
quite make the grade R.P.: We
left him walking alone... .M.C.A.:
You are a bit late in the day with
that verse R.F.: Printed this way
it does not look so good: “These
are foreign thoughts to scientists and
political officials engrossed in mak-
ing atom-bombs and declaring war.”
A.T.: We are inclined to agree
with you without feeling any great
urge to print your verse 8.J.0.:
You can take it from us that you
are far from singing alone
B. : Original, yes, but not
acceptable M.J.: Turgid stuff
M.R.: Well, that is over and done
with T.S.: Even at 19 you should
be doing better than that K.P.:
We, too, can only ask: “Why, O
why?” D. 8.: It’s very rugged
R. : “Distance” didn’t last the
distance T.F.: C(fuldn’t swallow
the ending D.M.8.: It went out
the window N.G.; It never stood
a chance M. 8.: A “Steele Rudd”
subject, but you’re no “Steele Rudd.”
C.M.K.: Weak ending... .H.C.;
An old idea M.B. (Windsor):
Good old bellowdrama E.L.S.:
Why did it have to have that end-
ing? L.H.C.: You can bury that
without any loss to literature....
F.D.R.: Very much a lightweight
S. : Not wanting a modern version
of the story of Adam and Eve
E.H.H.: Not in the market for “Old
Dan’s Hoitse” 8.T.: Suggest that
you read Henry Lawson’s “The
Drover’s Wife”....W.G.; Keep to
business articles P.R.N.E : But
what is it all about? M.W.: Both
are far too slight... .W.J.8.: Only
worth a paragraph J.S.: It doesn’t
make a story Neither
rings true.


Traps for Talkers
The Spoken Word
By M. F. DIXON
THE apparently general feeling that
there is something lacking in the
present-day approach to the spoken
word probably springs from the
tendency of broadcasters and public
speakers to underrate or ignore the
peculiar requirements of the spoken-
word technique. They write for the eye
and-hope it will also please the ear. Much
of what is written, unfortunately, pleases
neither the eye nor the ear.
The spoken word is older than the
written word, but it remained for broad-
casting to give it the range and audience
it now enjoys. Forty to fifty years ago
people in Australia attended public meet-
ings in large numbers for the sheer joy
of listening to the silver-tongued Alfred
Deakin, the cultured eloquence of W. A.
Holman and even the rasping voice of
that admirable phrase-maker W. M.
Hughes. In England today Winston
Churchill alone seems to be able to thrill
audiences, both directly or through the
microphone, as he thrilled millions of
people throughout the free world during
the war.
The explanation of Churchill’s magic
is probably that, apart from his rolling
voice, he still prepares his own speeches
as did the orators of old. Most public
speakers employ others to write their
material; and announcers and news-
readers labor under the handicap of hav-
ing their “copy” prepared by others. It
is a novel but basic fact that it is exceed-
ingly difficult for even a skilled practi-
tioner of the spoken word to write in
another person’s reading style.
■ Public speakers today; even when they
prepare their own material, tend to con-
form to the written style, hoping eventu-
ally to see their effort in print in the Press.
Few of them have studied the spoken-
word technique or realise that rhythm is
essential to the easy delivery and recep-
tion of a public or broadcast speech.
Rhythm, that subtle, intangible quality
which has more to do with sound add
pacing than with grammar, comes natur-
ally to only few speakers and broad-
casters. One of Churchill’s former
secretaries, in an admirable book pub-
lished some years ago, tells how Churchill
attained it by whispering his phrases
aloud, meanwhile keeping time with his
inevitable cigar, until he was satisfied with
their form and rhythm. Only then did he
give the nod for them to be taken down ;
but, not content with this, he revised the
script as many times as was necessary to
get the result he wanted.
Even such an experienced 8.8. C. broad-
caster as Professor Hilton once con-
fessed that in beginning the script of a
broadcast he wrote, “I’ve been wondering
all day what to say in this, my last broad-
cast.” He then commented on the clashes
of sound, adding that if he had put it over
in those words it would have “missed the
mark.”
The plain fact is that any message to
be conveyed to the public must conform
to the medium which is to be used. If it
is to be set down in type and read from a
printed page it must conform to one
standard ; if it is to be spoken by a human
voice it must conform to another. A
good style for visual reception and a good
style for aural reception will exhibit basic
differences.
Public speakers and broadcasters, in
addition to striving for rhythm or euphony
and avoiding clashes of sound, must
always be on the alert for the numerous
other traps inherent in the spoken word.
I recall during the Abdication crisis of
1936 handing an A.B.C. news-reader a
script referring to Earl Baldwin, then
Prime Minister of England. Unfortunately
this particular announcer spoke with a
strongly affected voice, and his handling
of “Earl” sounded so much like “Ole”
that a number of listeners telephoned in
protest. We always wrote “Lord”
Baldwin after that. You can’t “see” these
traps in a script, but the ear picks them
up instantly.
There is an even subtler trap in words
having the same sound but different mean-
ings. Tp “steel” a man’s determination is
clear to the eye, but highly ambiguous to
the ear. Twice recently I heard errors in
A.B.C. news-bulletins that would never
have survived a test-reading before beipg
broadcast. One referred to a “week”-old
Government; the other to Sir Edmund
Hillary’s “feat.”
Not many public speakers *make this
type of blunder, but nearly all of them
at times use words and phrases which are
difficult to get the tongue around or to
pronounce correctly, and so mar the
appeal of their message.
Many speakers and broadcasters fail
also to appreciate the unsuitability of their
voices and the varying degrfees of intel-
ligence of their audiences. Some people,
too, have defective hearing and undergo
a severe strain in trying to follow a
speaker whose enunciation is not clear,
who fails, to make his remarks run
smoothly, or who chooses difficult or
unusual words.
The “Medical Journal of Australia”
some years back discussed the audibility
of the radio-voice, and quoted from a
report prepared in London which claimed
that in 1937 one person in six in England
and Wales had defective hearing in one
or both ears; meaning that about
7,000,000 people there were somewhat
deaf. The article pointed out that even a
slight degree of deafness is a handicap,
because the listener, under the strain of
concentrating, soon becomes fatigued and
loses his grip on the subject. There is
also a time-lag in the interpretation of
sound which is by no means uncommon
in middle-aged and old people and is an
important bar to accurate hearing.
The considerations mentioned indi-
cate that there are many factors concerned
in the reception and appreciation of the
spoken word, and that he who would
please large audiences, whether from the
public platform or through the micro-
phone, must prepare and deliver his
“message” with great thought and care.
Stone-Age Survivors
Tragedy in Our North-West
By H. A. LINDSAY
MUCH can be learned by studying
the remains of prehistoric man,
but only from a fast-dwindling
remnant of our Australian abo-
rigines can we learn the workings of the
Stone-Age mind. That is why one of
the world’s- leading anthropologists, Dr.
Joseph B, Birdsell, of the University of
California, has come here to carry out
field studies in population genetics.
North-west Australia is now the only
place on earth where there are some sur-
viving Stone-Age people, virtually uncon-
taminated by other racial strains. Fur-
ther, they have not acquired a superior
culture from another human group in a
more advanced stage of development.
Dr. Birdsell’s wife acts as his assistant,
and on their recent trip they were accom-
panied by Norman B. Tindale, ethnolo-
gist of the South Australian Museum.
Tindale went along to complete a task
begun in 1938, but interrupted by his
war service: the plotting of the distribu-
tion of our aboriginal tribes. He has
now brought it to the stage where a
full-scale research-map, showing the
boundaries Of every tribal territory, can
be issued for the whole bf Australia.
More than six months spent in the
north-west of W.A. revealed to these
three people a repetition of a tragedy
which has occurred over and over again
since white settlement of this continent
began. As late as 1945 R.A.A.F. planes
flying over the centre of a huge area
bounded by Hall’s Creek, Nullagine,
Wiluna and the Rawlinson Range's saw
smoke arising from aboriginal camp-
fires. It showed that some family groups
of natives still lived there in a wild State.
Now a disastrous drought and an as-
yet unexplained dying-out of most of
the native fauna of this region has
brought practically the last of those bush
natives in to the outlying cattle-stations.
Once aborigines do that they never return
to their tribal territory, to live again by
hunting and food-gathering.
In 1890 a complete little tribe of
aborigines was discovered in the mallee
country along the border between South
Australia and N. S. Wales. Except for
pools lasting an hour or so after a heavy
rain, they had no water save what they
drained from tree-roots. They speared
an occasional kangaroo, but they lived
mainly upon wood-grubs, lizards, snakes
and birds’-eggs. Then they were persuaded
to come in to A. F. Cudmore’s station on
the Murray. Within a few years all
were dead.
Another such tribe used to live in the
country north of the Nullarbor. They
were brought down to the Transcontin-
ental Line as a show-piece for visiting
Royalty. Their survivors still hang
around the railway-line. A similar thing
is happening in the North-west today.
Contact with civilisation at the cattle-
stations there follows the familiar pat-
tern. Hardly any full-blood babies are
born; the few children are nearly all
half-castes. Yet even at this late hour
it would be possible to save the rem-
nants of the last wild tribes.
At the Leprosarium near Derby (W.A.),
in charge of nursing Sisters of the Catho-
lic Church, are natives brought in from
the coastal areas. Modern drugs are
curing them of leprosy. The really sig-
nificant lesson to be learned there is the
fact that many full-blood children are
being bom to the lepers. A diet rich in
vitamins seems to be the explanation.
They get it at the Leprosarium, but on*
the cattle-stations they live mainly on
beef, white flour, tea and sugar. (Inci-
dentally, the ill-effects of this restricted
diet are also visible among some mem-
bers of the white population in this area.)
At one time the aborigines employed
on these stations used to make good this
diet-deficiency by going walkabout at
intervals’, to live upon what the country
provided. Now they say the cattle have
eaten-out all the wild vegetables which
used to bulk fairly largely in their diet.
Here is the opportunity for a large-
scale experiment. Some groups of
station natives could have their diet sup-
plemented by fresh fruit and vegetables,
with other groups continuing to live on
white-man tucker alone. Within a few
years the effect on the birth-rate should
be obvious.
Young aboriginal men are now the
stockmen of this region, but with so few
growing up to replace them the cattle
industry will be in a serious plight for
labor within about 20 years. But what
gives most cause for concern is the
humanitarian angle of the problem. We
do our utmost to prevent animals such
as the koala and the platypus from dying
out. Surely an equally unique type of
human being deserves equal protection!
The preservation of aboriginal handi-
crafts is of great scientific importance.
To quote one example: a milestone in
human progress was the discovery that
stones which break with a conchoidal
fracture, such as flint, chalcedony and
jasper, could be shaped by pressure-flak-
ing into knives, arrow-heads and spear-
points of marvellous delicacy and utility.
Until the coming of the age of metals,
every advanced Stone-Age culture in the
world made its tools and weapons in this
way. Examples of the beautiful pressurer
flaked implements of the Ancient
Egyptians, the American Indians and of
prehistoric man in Europe are among
the greatest of all museum treasures.
Now this technique has been lost entirely
everywhere else on earth. Its sole sur-
viving practitioners are two old men in
the Kimberleys of W.A.
Tindale was able to film the whole
technique, from the preliminary selec-
tion and breaking of a boulder to the
flaking-off of the last tiny splinter, used
in fabricating the stone spear-point with
its leaf-like shape and serrated edges.
A great deal of publicity has been
given to the landscape-painting talent of
Aranda men of Central Australia; far
more important is the keeping-alive of
one of the world’s most useful arid speci-
alised of primitive arts. Not only should
those two old men be employed in
fashioning museum exhibits illustrating
every stage of the work but they should
also be encouraged to train a few
apprentices from the young men of their
race. The alternative is to lose some-
thing the world could’never regain, ‘
Whatever is done must be taken in
hand at once, under the supervision of
an anthropologist. There must be no
more cases of mistaken kindness, for time
will not permit of further errors. Some
of the world’s greatest anthropological
tragedies have been brought about by
people who had the best of intentions.
No amount of zeal; no amount of sin-
cerity and devotion to an ideal can atone
for working along the wrong lines.
The case of the Yaghan Indians illus-
trates this point. They lived in Tierra
del Fuego, bleakest and most inhospit-
able tract of country inhabited by human
beings. They went naked in that-dreadful
climate, slept behind sealskin breakwinds
on the bare ground with snow drifting
over them, dived into the icy sea to
secure mussels—-and remained healthy.
Then missionaries went among them and
sent out appeals for warm clothing “to
protect these poor people from the
frightful cold.” There was a generous
response.
Anthropologists were not consulted.
If their advice had been sought, they
would have forecast what would happen.
As soon as they were put into shirts and
trousers those Indians died off in thou-
sands through pneumonia and t.b.
Today only a handful of them survive.
Seventy years ago, Robert Louis
Stevenson saw at first-hand the impact
of civilisation and of a new religion upon
the Polynesians. This was his finding:
Where there have been fewest changes,
important or unimportant, salutary or
hurtful, the race survives. Where there
have been most changes... .there it
perishes. Experience shows that change
of habits among natives can be bloodier
than a bombardment. We should en-
courage the growth of new habits instead
of violently uprooting the old ones.
Nobody paid much attention to Steven-
son ; he was far ahead of his time. Today
we honor him for the most concise sum-
mary of this particular problem and its
cure ever written. It has been found to
hold good with all native peoples. Only
by working on those lines can some-
thing be done for the remnant of our
aborigines in the North-west.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
f W
: !.i;r ;
RH
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool
“Baa”; Wool sold at auction
during the seven months ending
January 31, 1954, was 178,224
bales more than for the corres-
ponding period last season,
according to figures supplied by
the National Council of Wool
Brokers. Total amount, at
£236,631,875, is £26,169,874
better than for last season.
Average price per tyale for the
seven months is £lO4 19s. Bd.,
compared with £lOl 7s. lOd.
• During January 353,725 bales
of greasy wool were sold for a
total of £35,395,004. The
average price per pound was
81.13 d., which was lower than
that for December. In January,
1953, the average price per
pound was 82.47 d. Market levels
at the January sales were from
2\ per cent, to .5 per cent, lower
than in December.
Both Dalgety’s and Farmers
and Graziers’, in their weekly
market reports, gave detailed
analyses of the February wool-
sales, and both commented on
the slump in tops in Bradford,
which had its logical reaction on
sales here. Early in February
Bradford chopped tops quotes
by up to 6d. per pound., which
brought them to the lowest point
since the 1952 slump. Average
64's Merino, which at the begin-
ning of the season were selling
freely at 160 d. sterling, were
offered at 142 d. to 140 d. How-
ever, some of this sluggishness
was due to local trade conditions.
Looking further ahead,
Dalgety’s comments on the bill
recently introduced into the
U.S. Senate: “By means of a
subsidy woolgrowers in the
U.S.A. are to be encouraged to
increase production to 300
million pounds per year. No
doubt this move may be regarded
as the answer to the persistent
demand for an increased import-
duty on wool.”
Earlier in the month, the same
source had details of declining
wool stocks in the U.S.A. Carry-
over into 1954 was the lowest
since 1941. But only a quarter
of America’s wool requirements
are supplied by local growers.
Official reports on Argentina’s
wool position at the beginning of
the year mentioned big con-
tracts under mutual-trade agree-
ments, But Dalgety’s (15/2/’53)
report that the biggest buyer,
Russia, apparently reneged, and
Argentina is left with large
stocks. Recent decline in world
values of coarse crossbred wools
reduces the chance of cash
customers. Argentina has no
auction market, and ignores
world-parity values except when
they rise. Dalgety’s considers it
probable that Argentina’s reluct-
ance to meet the market (if this
attitude continues) may harden
demand here.
Political developments in
Russia seem to indicate a con-
tinued emphasis - on consumer-
goods, and, therefore, wool. A
delegation of U.K. textile-
machinery manufacturers went
to Moscow recently to advise on
the establishment of big-textile-
plants in various' key centres.
Another item, of a more-or-
less incidental interest, in
Dalgety’s report is the sale of
woollen and worsted yarn, also
piece-goods, by U.K. to Japan—
”Do we have to bow or curtsy , Mat?”
in 1953, £3-million-worth, of
which £1 million comprised tops.
This year Japan (which is anxious
to make barter deals) set a limit
of £2 million on these orders to
Bradford. Also of interest —
taken in conjunction with the
-proposed subsidy—the fact that
Nicholls, biggest processors of
raw wool in the U.S.A., is build-
ing the largest wool-processing
plant in the world in South
Carolina.
New Forestry Book
“C.H.”: Australian Trees for
Australian Planting, by W. A. W.
de Beuzeville, former ecologist
to the N.S.W. Forestry Commis-
sion, is a good 155.-worth.
De Beuzeville knows at first
hand the fairly complex soil
and climatic variations of
N. S. Wales, and this intimate
knowledge, quite apart from
more general observations,
makes the book valuable for the
practical man.
The general observations, too,
are thoughtful and thought-
provoking. In the chapter “T/ie
Mess of Pottage” he records
acts of devastation.
The slaughter of the cypress-
pine forests on the Bogan, 50
years ago, was bad enough.
But; “Unfortunately destruction
of this remnant but valuable
asset in the Western Division #
continues.” Forest annihilation
throughout the marginal area
has been thoroughgoing and
continuous. That the effects of
this are serious is made plain:
“The true destiny of these lands
was to present an everlasting
wooded barrier against the
scorching influence of the
western plains.”
More melancholy facts: The
slaughter of the mulga ;. never
again will these trees give life-
saving foliage to thousands of
starving stock; but by skilful
lopping they could have re-
mained a permanent fodder-
reserve. . The felling of the
hoop - pine forests on the
Dorrigo, and the subsequent
disappearance of the State’s
main source of matchbox and
butterbox timber. For these,
and other evils, the only
remedies are replanting and
patience. Large doses of each.
Overstocking, of course, has
played its sinister part: not only
by contribtiting to erosion but
because seedlings have been
eaten-out and because ground
has been trampled so hard that
seed could not germinate.
As de Beuzeville sees it,, the
commercial-timber position in
Australia is bad. War II cut off
imports, undeveloped reserves
were sacrificed. This was a
major setback to all aspects of
forestry work.
In all States demand exceeds.,
supply. But, because of the*”
generally low level of exports,
Australia is forced to depend on
her own forests.
The book covers all aspects
of tree-cultivation, from seed-
collection to plantation-, wind-
break- and farm-planting. Uses
and merits of hundreds of
native trees are listed. Two
climatic maps, one of Australia
and one of N.S.W., inside.
Malice Wheats
“Mr.”: In Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture wheat-tests
over five years Insignia held its
position as the highest-yielder in
the Mallee. Next-best was the
newly-released Sherpa.
Over the test-period Insignia
averaged 30 bushels and Sherpa
29.1 bushels. Quadrat, Diadem,
Gabo and Bencubbin followed in
that order. Last year Insignia
was sown on 64 per cent, of
Mallee wheatlands. Sherpa
matures later than Insignia, and
is expected to replace Quadrat
where later-maturing varieties
are wanted. As it produces a
flour with better baking-qualities
than Quadrat, Bencubbin or
Insignia, increased sowings
should lead to an overall im-
provement in the quality of
Victorian flour.
The experiments were at the
Mallee Research Station,
Walpeup, and on private pro-
perties at Woomelang, Ultima,
Berriwillock and Manangatang.
Sherpa will be issued to Mallee
and North-east farmers for sow-
ing this season —limit, three bags
to each applicant. Orders should
be sent to the Agricultural
Superintendent, Department of
Agriculture, Melbourne (Vic.).
Mastitis
“Bacto”: Let’s be cautious
about these rather exaggerated
claims for each new “wonder-
drug.” Width of scope in the
treatment of humans does not
necessarily presume a similar
efficiency in veterinary medicine.
“Oxo” (B. 3/2/’54), for in-
stance, makes a strong case for
aureomycin in the treatment of
stubborn cases of bovine mas-
titis. But the stuff’s no panacea,
and, as a matter of fact, many
veterinarians aren’t keen on it
for treating this particular
disease. Approximately 88 per
cent, of all cases of mastitis are
of the streptococcal type, and
the germs are equally suscept-
ible to the much-cheaper penicil-
lin. Only in cases where
penicillin has been used ineffec-
tually, the germs having become
penicillin-resistant, is the use of
aureomycin worth considering.
But, even so, streptomycin has
proved effective in these cases,
and it is cheaper than
aureomycin.
Staphylococcal mastitis, ac-
counting for most of the remain-
ing cases, and clinically indis-
tinguishable from streptococcal
mastitis, has been a major
problem for years. The organ-
isms responsible are lodged deep
in the tissue of the udder, where
they cause fibrosis, and they are
insusceptible to the effect of
drugs infused into the udder by
way of the teat. Here, again,
the germs are as susceptible to
penicillin as they are to aureo-
mycin: the trouble is to get at
them.
“Oxo” was off the track a
bit when he wrote “aureomycin
is effective against bru-
cellosis, tularemia, rickets and
other diseases.” Aureomycin is
not clinically effective in bru-
cellosis, and on no account
should it be regarded as a handy
substitute for strain-19 vaccina-
tion, The disease tularemia does
not occur in Australia. Rickets
is a condition, not a disease,
caused by faulty diet and/or
lack of sunlight; never by a
germ.
Liming
“Chestnut”: Quite a few land-
owners on the N.S.W. Southern
Tablelands have tried light liming
recently, according to a Depart-
ment of Agriculture report. One
is W. Tooth, of Longreach,
Brayton (near Marulan).
In January, 1953, Tooth
ploughed 60 acres; with sub-
sequent harrowing the ground
was ready for sowing in April.
Half the paddock was sown with
41b. subterranean clover and
21b. phalaris to the acre, mixed
with 2cwt. of lime, from a direct-
drop fertiliser-spreader.
Straight after, ordinary super-
phosphate, at the rate of lewt. to
the acre, was added. The other
half of the paddock was sown
with the same pasture-mixture
and the same amount of super.,
bflt no lime. The report (which
gives no details of carrying-
capacity) states that the difference
between limed and unlimed areas
was “spectacular.”
Mouth Trouble
“C.”: Stock and dogs off their
feed and in run-down condition
may be suffering from mouth-
troubles or -diseases. Slobber-
ing, constant licking of lips, or
chewing, shaking of the head,
and difficulty in swallowing, are
general symptoms. Dogs may
claw at the mouth.
Examination may show pieces
of bone, splintered wood or
nails embedded between the
teeth or in the jaw. Sometimes
jneedles pierce the tongue.
Pieces of wood may be found


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
dsf
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR-
Gives you the. advantages of sewerage ns
natter where your 1 home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOyRS
d
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage la
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SAN TARY CO.
25-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years .
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
'DISTRIBUTORS:"
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenarcr
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: E. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St..
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co.* (N.Z.), Wellesley
-Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
I, WATT, 32 VOLT
HOME LIGHTING SET
Ample capacity to light the home
and use electric iron, toaster,
washing machine, radio, etc.
Sturdy, reliable job complete
with switchboard. Press button
self starting.. Driven by 3 H.P.
J. air-cooled engine.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or agricultural use,
HARDMAN & HAU 101 Syan ‘ y '
£165
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors:, THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON. Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Have you got
good taste?
We are not talking' about books or
plays or clothes. We mean ‘Good
taste’ In the strict sense.
When you drink whisky, for
example, do you really taste it
critically? It’s always agreeable
to be offered Scotch Whisky. But
it’s memorable when you’re
offered Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. Note that name— Bell's
Old Scotch Whisky. Established In
1825. We’d like you to try Bell’s
Whisky. It brings to mind the
echo of Scottish breezes, the
burbling of Scottish burns,
the ripple of ripe barley fields,
and has that slight suggestion
that hints at Highland peat
and heather. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky— truly you can call
yourself a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
r
r
BELCS
Scotch Wl
100% SCOTCH WHISKjg
oismuo amo
■ IM SCOTLAND
°ISTILLERS «"* SCOI^
(STABLISHCO
PRODUCT OP
between the teeth and the cheek
of cattle. Cows addicted to
bone-chewing because of min-
eral deficiencies in the soil or
food, or horses grazing close to
ground-level, are frequent
sufferers. Animals in pain and
unable to remove the object or
to feed may take epileptic fits.
When the foreign body is
loose it can easily be removed
with the fingers or forceps. But
if the case looks difficult and no
vet. is available, the animal
should be cast and a gag applied.
In most cases sharp objects
pierce the tongue —from behind,
but in a forward position. In
extracting, the tongue must be
pulled forward, if necessary with
force, and, using the forceps, the
object is twisted upwards and
backwards, avoiding the throat
area. Where the’ tongue swells
badly after an extraction scarify-
ing along the full length of the
swelling brings quick relief.
After removal of any foreign
body the mouth should be
swabbed with a strong solution
of warm salt-water.
Actinomycosis of the tongue,
in either horses or cattle, calls
for veterinary advice. Signs of
this disease are, first, granulation
of the tissues of the tongue and,
later, ulceration or thickening of
the base of the tongue. Swallow-
ing and breathing are difficult.
Bones of the jaw are often
affected. Early treatment is
necessary.
Stack Silage
“Myrrhee”: In Australia and
New Zealand the wedge-shaped
stack is the most popular for
above-ground silage.
Select a sloping site and drop
the first loads on the part of the
stack that will be highest; i.e.,
the lower end. Dump loads in
front to form a small ramp. As
the stack becomes higher more 1
loads are dropped in front of the
high-end to keep the slope gentle
enough for the tractor to
negotiate. In this way the stack
will become longer as it' gets
higher. The high-end is sloped
inwards slightly, so that it will
settle without overhang. The
sides are kept vertical and con-
solidated by trampling.
“Self-seal” the stack by run-
ning the tractor up and down it
to convert the grasses and clovers
into a mushy layer for several
inches from the surface. When
this dries-out a crust will be
formed, effectively sealing the
stack against water and air.
This type of silage, unlike the
pitted product, is a short-term
reserve only.
Watering of Citrus
“Farmer Bill”: C. E. K.
Fuller, of New Zealand Depart-
ment of Agriculture, says that in
hot weather weekly watering of
citrus trees is usually necessary;
longer intervals can be allowed
in early summer and autumn.
The young, developing tree, if
deprived of water to the point of
wilting, is checked in growth, and
the wood hardens, Shallow
watering encourages shallow
rooting; too much water may
cause root injury. Each water-
ing should be sufficient to
moisten the soil to such a depth
that, when the surface soil dries
out, the tree’s roots can seek
supplies at lower levels.
' Excess moisture lying; around
the trunks of citrus trees can
induce collar- and root-rot.
Oiling a Tarpaulin
When a tarpaulin is
to be oiled stretch it out on the
floor of a shed, pegging down
the corners to keep it flat. For
the first coat, paint each side
once with two parts of raw, and
one part of boiled, linseed-oil,
adding enough yellow-ochre or
vegetable-black to give it the
right color. Work it in well and
allow it to dry thoroughly. For
the second coat, mix two parts of
boiled, and one part of raw, oil,
plus vegetable-black to color.
When the job is done in cold
weather a little terebene will
speed up the drying.
In Brief
In Sydney tallow has gone
up 50 per cent over the past 10
weeks, according to Dalgety’s.
Reason new processes in
plastic-manufacture creating an
expanded market. Should be
reflected in better prices for old
sheep for boiling-down.
* * * ♦
“Clunesman”: Armchair
geneticists are in for a shock at
Sydney Royal. For years they
have said importations of beef-
sires are unnecessary, claiming
that breeders put undue
emphasis on the letters “imp.”
after an animal’s name. This
might be true in some cases, but
this year will see some of the
best teams ever paraded, and
all carry high proportions of
imported blood.
* * » ♦
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture reports a “phenomenal”
demand in the Goulburn dis-
trict for molybdenised super-
phosphate, both for topdressing
and new sowing (of pastures) in
the coming autumn. Farmers
are showing a keen interest in
the new D.D.T. superphosphate,
useful for controlling the red-
legged earth-mite. J. H. Ballard,
Wagga district agronomist,
points out that where this is
being used, topdressing should
be left until after the first
autumn rains.*
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Overseas it is necessary to
breed resistance to 2,4-D into
new strains of some crops, such
as flax, but experiments at
Wagga Agricultural College
(N.S.W.) indicate that wheat
can be safely sprayed with the
stuff (for skeleton-weed control),
provided departmental recom-
mendations are followed. Slight
straw brittleness seems to be the
only side-effect. Time of spray-
ing is important when the
weed is most vigorous, just
before sending up the centre
stalk.
« * * *
N.S.W. wheat harvest for
1953-54 should average 18.7
bushels to the acre, compared
with the peak average of 21.0
bushels for 1952-53, according
to a preliminary estimate made
by the Government statistician.
Estimated area under wheat (for
grain), 3,470,000 acres: yield,
65,000,000 bushels, which is
higher than last year (56,670,000
bushels), but not as high as
1949-50 (81,939,000), or 1947-48
(95,227,000). The estimate is
subject to revision when annual
returns for the year ending
March 31 come in.
* * * •
Queensland Cane Growers’
Council reports that an extra
1000 men may be needed for
the 1954 harvest. Growers
aren’t satisfied with present
year-to-year labor arrangements,
and the Q.C.G.C. has made
recommendations to manpower
authorities, suggesting a long-
range plan. Stressing, too, the
need for more careful selection
of immigrants suitable for cane-
cutting.
Hints for the Farm
“Myrr”: Grass - fed geese
never reach prime condition. In
Europe, where high-quality,
well-fed geese are marketed, the
bird is a table delicacy. Young
stock, foraging for their food in
a paddock, never get enough
nourishment in concentrated
form for rapid growth. They
should receive at least one feed
of mash a day and two as the
marketing stage approaches.
Wet-mash in the morning with
dry-mash always available is
good routine. Make the mash
out of 301 b. ground wheat, 201 b.
bran, 301 b. pollard, 101 b. ground
oats, 101 b. meat-meal and ilb.
salt. Shellgrit should always be
available and, in the absence of
good pasture, they’ll need some
finely-chaffed greenfeed twice
daily.
“Billo”: This is a good season
to apply the “autumn-saved”
pasture-practice.- Either graze
heavily or mow lightly, and
then harrow paddocks before
closing them in the autumn, so
that development of tufty waste
growth is reduced to a minimum.
Feed resulting from any autumn
rains is then cool-stored in the
closed paddocks until there
are sufficient freshly-calved cows
to warrant using it.
“Waltzing Matilda”: Celeriac
is related to celery, has a flavor
quite as good, and is hardier.
Sow now in rich, well-drained
soil. To facilitate watering,
trench the plants, but don’t bury
the bulbous roots. A fertiliser
mixture in the ratio of 31b.
sulphate-ammonia, 101 b. super,
and 21b. sulphate-potash, applied
at 3oz. to 4oz. to the sq. yard,
will give satisfactory results.
Seed should not be sown more
than a quarter-of-an-inch deep.
No blanching is required (as
for celery), and water should be
applied freely if conditions are
dry. Removal of suckers as
soon as they develop will give
more attractive roots. The
turnip-shaped root is the part
normally eaten.
“Sundowner”: Hormone
weedicides will deal with trouble-
some willows and poplars.
Frill the trunk right around with
downward cuts and pour in
either undiluted hormone or a
mixture of one-part hormone
and one-part water. Trees up
to 9in. in diameter can be killed
with a single dose of three fluid
ounces of herbicide. Larger
trees require more proportion-
ately. Some re-treatment may
be necessary, but the application
is most effective if made during
the tree’s active-growth period.
Trees with a number of branches
need to be frilled and treated
separately.
“C.A.A.”: Ropes for operat-
ing bail-tongues and exit-doors
on the dairyfarm are very use-
ful, but tend to become so dirty
that they are a source of con-
tamination. To overcome this,
thread the rope through white
plastic tubing of about iin.
diameter. Tubes are in lengths
of 2ft. and are placed on the
ropes when they are handled.
Wiped each day, they never
remain soiled.
The cheapest feed
for layers is ad lib. dry wheat
and meat-meal. Put the two in
separate hoppers and the chobks
balance their own diet.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
More coastal rain likely, but inland the rains are likely
to decline during March. So far the cyclical sequence has
been closely followed by the weather: fine days in Sydney
during the Royal Progress, rains on the North Coast of
N.S.W., heat in Canberra, etc.
The recent cyclone demonstrate* another aspect. This
should have come to Mackay late in January, as it did in
1918, but, although the rain and floods came, the cause was
monso'onal, leaving the cyclone either displaced in time-
sequence, 'or dissipated elsewhere hard to say which,
because it now came into another cycle for which there is
no check-data. Earlier advice had been given that the
November rains were due on the astronomical cycle; Feb-
ruary 20 was the date given as a start-line. The prediction
came uncomfortably true.
The disastrous nature of the result is to be regretted.
But that’s the way the weather works. Nothing happens
that is not a repetition of some past weather event (as yet
imperfectly documented). Personally, I hope something
will be done to make staff and funds available to continue
and develop this promising line uf research before it is
too late.
GET IN EARLY
“The Bulletin” no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. fid.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
New Australians and Old *
I finished reading T. A. G. Hunger-
ford’s Riverslake with the feeling that he
had never met New Australians outside
camps and hostels. I understood, without
having seen them, or wishing to, that
conditions as depicted by him do exist.
That is, however, only a temporary
Stage, and sooner or later the migrants
go out on their own or in groups to cities
and settlements and bush-camps. That
is where most of them learn to talk
English, or enough English to get by, and
that is where they begin to pick up Aus-
tralian ways and make Australian
friends.
If conditions as painted by Hungerford
—and others—really exist in migrant
centres, isn’t it time we ceased coddling
migrants in camps? It would be kinder
to bung them out to the bush, not to
fend for themselves, but to be helped
along the road to citizenship by the aver-
age Aussie, who is apparently better-
equipped to do this than some of the
people who are paid handsome salaries
for the job.
Admittedly it takes time to average-out
the differences between Australian and
Continental standards. A settling-down
period is also needed for a minority of
Aussies to get used to the idea that there
are other viewpoints besi.de their own.
Very, often, too, the British migrant needs
time to absorb differences which have
crept in within a few generations.
At this stage of the newcomer’s develop-
ment, it is foolish to raise the cry of
“minority problem.” We have heard that
yelled by mobs before, only to have it
disappear with the threat of real danger,
when the* maligned minorities have been
>among the first to enlist.
Naturally the migrant wants to mix
with mates of his own choosing, and if
they happen to be fellow-nationals what’s
the odds? Sooner or later he’ll come to
know us and adopt something of our
way of living—and if he doesn’t we can
be reasonably sure that most of his kids
will. Henry Lawson, Hans Heysen, Shaw
Neilson and others have proved that.
Even if we cannot see what is happening
under our very eye, the contribution to
our way of life from children of earlier
New Australians should be sufficient
guarantee of what we may expect in the
future.
Let’s give them a go and help them
sort themselves out. In the right sur-
roundings, Carlo and Hans and Marko
cease to be Italian and Dutch and Slav
and very soon become the bloke-next-
door, with whom you celebrate a wedding
or a christening, who goes with you to
the football, whose kids play with your
kids, and whose missus gossips with yours
about the dreadful goings-on of those new
people who live just across the road.—
L. R. M. (W.A.).
Housing in Victoria
Housing is one of Victoria’s chronic
problems. Complaints are general that,
despite ability to pay quite a consider-
able deposit, it, is almost impossible to
obtain the balance required from any of
the recognised lending authorities or
institutions.
Most of the large life-assurance com-
panies, and the State Savings Bank, make
it a feature in their advertising that they
provide finance for housing-loans; yet
they seem obsessed with the idea that
present values will not hold, and that
1940 values, or thereabouts, are a safer
basis. This determines the amount they
are prepared to lend, and therefore the
business usually lapses.
Present figures asked for houses are
undoubtedly high, as is everything else,
but what are the prospects of their ever
coming down again to any appreciable
extent? It is, of course, also so much
simpler to invest in Commonwealth loans
and not be bothered with housing. Cut-
ting off interest-coupons (and even that
can be avoided with inscribed stock) is
much less tiring than all the work in-
volved in mortgage-deeds and the rest of
it.
My point is well illustrated by the last
published balance-sheet of the State Sav-
ings Bank of Victoria. Its contribution
to housing is very small. It holds from
the public deposits of approximately
£234 million, and yet, of that huge total,
only £l4 million has been made avail-
able to its credit-foncier department for
housing and similar loans! The balance
of deposits has been lent to Governments
and semi-Govemment bodies, less what
is held in the form of cash, premises, etc.
They do not even entrust to branch-
managers the making of valuation for
a prospective loan —yet who should be
better informed on local values than
those officers?
• Life-assurance societies and the savings
bank seem to be nothing more than huge
collecting agencies for money which they
immediately lend to Governments and
similar bodies, and we all ‘ know how
prudently they spend anything they can
lay their hands on ! The Royal Com-
mission on Banking stressed that, in an
effort to avoid such an arrangement and
to get the public to lend direct to Com-
monwealth loans instead, much of the
savings-bank deposits should be for fixed
terms (instead of earning interest at what,
to all intents and purposes, is at “call”),'
but the..usual notice has been taken of
that very sound recommendation.
The savings-bank commissioners, and
directors of fife-assurance companies and
societies, might well consider whether
they would not be putting their funds to
better use by lending much less conser-
vatively for the acquisition of homes.
There is, as a rule, no better security for
a loan than a man’s home, and there
is also a very great social benefit in hav-
ing as many individual home-owners in
a community as is possible.
There seems to be plenty of credit
available for the purchase of motor-cars
and all sorts of gadgets, but not half
enough for this really worth-while
purpose.— Ceg (Vic.).
Education Today
Too often we are being asked and told
what is wrong with education today.
Compared with past years there is not
very much wrong with it at all; what is
wrong is that we are expecting far more
from it. Teachers are better trained,
better pay and conditions are attracting
a higher class of trainee, schools have the
latest equipment, and, lastly, the intelli-
gence ratio of pupils has not varied
greatly.
But education is in a transition stage,
and much of what is being done is experi-
mental. We are trying to give the chil-
dren, as well as the fundamental three
“R’s,” an interest in all those things
which make up so-called “culture.”
“Culture” cannot be served up weekly,
yet that is what we are trying to do. In
music, for example, a class is given a
lesson once a week. Some of these lessons
go under the name of “music-apprecia-
tion,” but not all of them. It would be
much better to play a record three or
four, times a day, with a half-hour recital
once a week.
We are too restricted by the out-of-
date idea that a lesson-period in the
secondary school must be 40 or 45
minutes. For some subjects a 40-minute
lesson is only just long enough, for
others it is far too long. Fifteen minutes
of poetry or music would have far greater
effect than a lesson which drags on far
after the interest has been lost.
On the social side we need to inculcate
in pupils some of that driving force
“Now we're properly bushed — we've brought the wrong map."
which impels public-spirited people to
give their services unselfishly to their
fellow-men and their country. The chil-
dren must feel, rather than learn, why
some people give freely so much of their
time to such things as the Red Cross
Society, the Society for Crippled Children
and so on. We cannot reduce these
motives to a mathematical formula, yet
that, too, is what we are trying to do.
Sir Richard Livingstone, in his Educa-
tion for a World Adrift, calls this an
age without standards,” and suggests that
education is doing nothing to improve it.
We need not be as pessimistic as that,
yet in our, anxiety to provide large slabs
of “culture” we are dropping standards
in the fundamentals. We are following
the dangerous doctrine that education
should fit the child; an idea closely akin
to the trade-union policy of working at
the pace of the slowest worker. While
ever the standard of work is lowered to
meet the capabilities of the child those
capabilities will be lessened. Education
should provide something that is within
the child’s reach, yet far enough away
for him to have to grasp for it.
One healthy sign is public interest in
education. While this continues we will
surely evolve a system that will pass the
child into adulthood as a “full man.” —
Wackford (N.S.W.).
Artists and Critics
There are painters and painters, and to
dismiss the work of most as rubbish (B.
10/2/’54) may be either stupid or the
result of being super-critical.
In every art and in every age most
contemporary work is rubbish; * that is,
it fails to live, fails to survive. The argu-
ment that Constable and Turner, Keats,
James Joyce and others were at first
unacceptable to critics and yet were
geniuses, therefore all artists who are
unacceptable by contemporary criticism
are geniuses, has only to be stated to
show its fallacy. What each of these men
was never without was the support of
some critics whose dicta were worth more
to him than all the rest —for example,
Leigh Hunt with Keats.
But there is one aspect of contempor-
ary painting which probably makes it
unique. Competent painters purposely
paint rubbish because they know that is
what most critics want and will praise.
Artists such as Dali and Picasso sold
their birthrights for bowls of Parisian
pottage. Though a first-rate draughts-
man when he wanted to be. Picasso
consciously exploited the commercial
possibilities of cubism and surrealism and
won a reputation as a “chameleon.” He
sang ’em muck, he painted ’em the rub-
bish they asked for, and, unfortunately,
set the pace—the want of standard and
the anarchy so widely imitated.
Is it any wonder the proportion of
ephemeral paintings should be so high
when “originality” is too often nothing
else but indiscipline of spirit? Did Keats
“Say, Wouldn't you find the camera much quicker and more acc'rate?"
go in for composing double acrostics?
—Martin Haley (Q.).
Navy Pay-books
The system of paying naval ratings (B,
13 /1 / ’54) is certainly outdated, and I
have seen many a surly look on the face
of the recipient who knew there was a
mistake somewhere, but also knew that
if he “bleated” and held up the muster
he would be eaten without salt. The
system is a quick one, but is far from
efficient.
There is only one way to pay men, and
that is as done in the merchant navy.
There, every officer and man can see
what he is getting, what he signs for and
how it is made up. If in the paying
it’s claimed that there has been some
error, the party concerned is asked to
stand by until the pay is completed. The
matter is then thoroughly gone into, the
compilation explained, and the adjust-
ment, if any, made on the spot.
The Navy “pusser” would, no doubt,
remark on the difference in size of crews.
Admitted, but in the Navy there are
enough “pussers” to eat the job.—
Dadsda (N.S.W.).
Those Jap Cartographers
The outburst against the use of
Japanese in any capacity in the projected
U.S. maritime survey of the Bismarcks
didn’t make much sense. Except for
limited defence areas, the results of mari-
time surveys are available to all seamen
and yachtsmen, foreigners as well as
natives. If they weren’t, navigation in
coastal waters would be most hazardous,
The British Admiralty "has charted
most of the coasts of the world, including
those of Japan. Indeed, the Japs still
use these British charts.
There is danger in foreigners charting
a coast only when the locals don’t know
what is going on, and when the charts
are not made available for generalise,
*That would not apply to this survey of
the Bismarcks. — Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
One evening in 1936 the harbormaster
at Kavieng, New Ireland, received a mes-
sage from a large Japanese naval train-
ing-ship to the effect that it was some
miles off the coast and intended coming
straight in that night.
The ship was told that there was only
one boat-passage, that it came in from
the western side, that there was no way
of getting through the maze of cora
reef and islands, and that, in any case, «
must wait for daylight to get in at all.
The harbormaster was politely thanked
and his advice ignored.
At 2 a.m. the training-ship was at
wharfside, having been *piloted througn
the reefs and islands unerringly an
unscathed, and unaided by even a vestige
of moonlight.—KEEOSHLiQ^^^^


Compost and Soil-preservation
The Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works is spending £2250 in
hiring a Queenscliff fishing-boat and
crew for several months as the first step
in its £26,000,000 sewerage-scheme for
Melbourne.
Radar tests of currents and tides are
to be made off Cape Schanck, the
proposed outlet for the sewer. The new
plan is intended to relieve the strain on
the board’s sewage-farm at Werribee,
which is fast becoming overloaded by
the rapid development of Melbourne.
Before the sewage can be discharged
into the sea it is necessary to find if the
currents and tides will carry it well out
into the ocean. The launch will be
directed by a mobile radar-crew to drop
reflecting-floats into the sea, and their
course will be plotted under varying
weather conditions.
It’s all very interesting and scientific,
but so far as conserving or adding to
the fertility of Victoria’s soil is con-
cerned it’s not so good. We have had
warnings in plenty, by people well-
qualified, that Victoria’s fertility is de-
clining at an alarming rate despite the
application of chemical fertilisers.
While the sewage which it is proposed
to float-out to sea might not make a
very great contribution to the State as
a whole, it could surely be put to some
use. As the president of. the Victorian
Compost Society has observed, the
watchword should be “utilisation,” not
“disposal.”
The existing farm at Werribee grows
some of the best beef produced in Aus-
tralia, and another such farm would
surely be the prudent way of solving the
present problem. The proper disposal of
sewage results in tremendous growths
of pasture on even the poorer class of
land, and there must be many places
around Melbourne where another farm
such as Werribee could be set up.
Twenty-six million is a lot of money,
and the expenditure of only a fraction
of it in thoroughly investigating the
problem of utilisation instead of disposal
would be well worth while.
Any backyard gardener knows that a
policy of “take-and-not-put” soon re-
sults in his patch being worked-out. The
world has too many dustbowls and
deserts already for us to regard lightly
any such waste as is now contemplated
under the new sewage scheme. — CEO
(Vic.).
Obsolete Laws
“Tonsi” (B. 3/2/’54) does not include
the “carrying of firearms on Sunday” in
his list of obsolete Acts in N. S. Wales,
Four men were lately brought before
court on this charge and the evidence
revealed that they were on a property 12
miles from town and four miles from a
main road and shooting rabbits with the
consent of the owner.
The magistrate declined to inflict a
penalty and opined in no uncertain terms
that the Act should be reviewed.
Unfortunately, the matter rests there,
and the Act remains, like other bad laws,
to encourage contempt for the law itself.
—Ann (N.S.W.).
Teacher Recruitment
Much as “Teacher-Parent” (B,
6/1/’54) and the rest of the community
dislike it, the emphasis in the recruitment
of teachers must always be on quantity
rather than quality. The very nature of
the work and the rapidly-increasing
population of the country create a demand
that is greater than the supply —a situa-
tion which will be almost impossible to
overcome in quantity, let alone quality.
Short of having an oversupply of
prospective teachers nothing an education
department can do will eliminate the
chaff entirely ; and the claim that better
pay, etc., is attracting more chaff than
wheat is open to doubt. In the primary
division, at least, the person attracted by
these things alone soon finds that service
in rural areas is, generally speaking, only
for those who had a more substantial
motive for entering the profession. Iso-
lation, indifferent lodgings, small and
often ill-equipped schools combine to
add another name to the list of resigna-
tions in the departmental gazette.
Superannuation, long holidays and
security of tenure have been with us too
long to be of significance in today’s in-
creasing recruitment. Better pay is
attracting, for the most part, young men
with an aptitude for teaching who, in
"I hope you like it, Clement. I had it designed specially for YOU."
previous years, would have gone into
other employment because economic
necessity overrode their vocational
desires.— Piston Pete (Vic.).
Car Insurance
I don’t know how the system works,
but this is what happened.
My car-insurance for 1952 was £ll 2s.
A passing car threw a stone through my
windscreen, causing damage worth £2.
The insurance company paid-up
immediately.
My 1953 premium fell due and I got
a bill for £l3 17s. 6d. The local agent’s
comment was: “You were rather unfor-
tunate having that little accident.”
I’ve been accident-free this year and
my premium is back to £ll 25., but that
window finally cost me £2 15s. 6d.,
despite my paying £ll a year coverage.
In three years the insurance company
has received £33 6s. from me and, when
I suffer a minor accident, I am slugged
another £2 15s. 6d., although the actual
repairs only cost the company £2. —
Mero (Vic.),
Road-accidents
According 4o a World Health Organi-
sation report, Australia has more fatal
road-accidents on a population basis than
any of the 15 countries investigated.
Next in order were the U.S.A., Canada,
West Germany, Switzerland and N-.Z.,
while England, with Wales, was eighth.
The inference, however, should not be
that Australians are the world’s worst
drivers. No intelligent survey can be
based on population figures. If it could,
then Communist China, where there are
few roads and fewer motor-vehicles in
a population of 400 million, would come
out with flying colors, while the Eskimos
would top the lot.
Actually, if a survey is based on the
number of vehicles used, Australia has
the fifth-lowest fatal-accident rate in the
world, with 11.2 persons killed for each
10,000 vehicles. The rate is such that,
according to the chairman of the Aus-
tralian Road Safety Council, the average
Australian would have to travel the
equivalent of 400 times round the world
before he killed a single person,
The accident-rate in relation to the
number of vehicles and miles travelled in
Australia is thus one of the world's
lowest; but, even so, that is no reason
for complacence. The chances of being
involved in a motor-accident in this
country are far too high, and could be
lowered. It isn’t so much due to bad
driving as to the almost complete lack
of consideration shown to the non-
motoring public.
A good example is the Latrobe-Russell-
street intersection in Melbourne. It is
bang underneath the eyes of the 400-odd
policemen who occupy the Russell-street
police-headquarters and there are major
stop-notices on all four corners. Yet any
pedestrian who took the regulations at
their face-value and exercised his rights
by crossing might just as well sign his
own death-warrant.
Motorists may stick out their hands
and slow down, but they give an intimi-
dating glare at any pedestrian who hap-
pens to be crossing. It is a battle of wits,
and generally the pedestrian’s nerve breaks
down first and he jumps backwards or
forwards and the motorist passes on in
triumph.
If this goes on right under the noses
of the traffic-regulators themselves what
hope is there for consideration on a
country road or other lonely places?
Chevroford (Vic.).
Road-trains
Road-trains so far tried in Centralia
and the N.T. are small affairs compared
with what is needed. What engineering
or traction difficulties prevent the opera-
tion of road-trains consisting of, say, 10
cattle-trucks each 20ft. by 10ft. —low-
loading, double-decker type with buffers
and Westinghouse brakes on all? Double-
decker cattle-trucks might be something
new, but a 10ft. track and low-slung
trucks should make it possible. The
height would be no greater than that of
rail-trucks loaded with wool or hay. As
diesel-engines are now turned out to
develop thousands of horsepower that
part of a suitable road-train should not
present any great difficulty.
We must develop North Australia, and
if it can’t be done with road-trains and
aircraft, the public will have to be socked
heavily to establish railways and operate
them.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Air-strategy
Sir Donald Hardman, former Chief of
the Air Staff (R.A.A.F.), in an interview
published in “Aircraft,” gives a clear
definition of the role o£ a modern air-
force.
The inherent mobility of aircraft makes
it possible to cover wide areas in recon-
naissance and to press home an attack
at a moment’s notice. Reinforcing
bombers and even lighters can be flown
from the other side of the world in a
matter of hours.
Longer ranges, higher speeds and better
control-methods are making fewer bases
necessary. Such bases may well consist
of a cluster of airstrips with centralised
facilities and adequate stocks of fuel,
munitions and food, and must be capable
of logistical support. Modern aircraft
require huge quantities of material, especi-
ally jet fuel and munitions. The capacity
of the base is limited by ability to sup-
port it.
The United States is thinking on the
same lines with its global strategy. That
is the reason for bases being established
in all parts of the world, while no, or
only small, forces are being permanently
stationed at them. Aircraft of the U.S.
and of its allies can be concentrated in
a matter of hours in any threatened
area.—Gui (Vic.).
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 267
Across
I—One between the insect and the
cries of the derisive bogies. (8)
4—Rib in a composer. (6)
B—A Grable misrepresented figures
of another kind. (7)
10—Get back. (6)
12— spots in Japan are worth
retaining. (9)
13— Socks a prophet. (5)
14— Thus. (2)
15— The wild rose pipe. (5)
17— Street named after a serpent
braggart’s claim. (5)
18— French season the middle of
Peter. (3)
19 — Object has a disturbed night. (5)
20 — Oram you between the street and
the fortissimo. (5)
21— Oomph mite does without me.
(2)
22 They are not well provided for.
(5)
24—Cooking too much above the
dog in its interior. (9)
27 Read the republic direction. (6)
28 — Linda is to fix up the socks to
measure. (7)
29 — Batting turn at batting with a
batting failure, and dye Federal
electorate vitality. (6)
30 —Not even I associated with
sleepers, rum things. (8)
Down
1— Boycotting the very dark Chinese
distance over a bite. (12)
2 American private tongue with
the weight off a dance. (5)
3 American range of animals
(afloat) with a little weight at
first. (5)
5 Hoist up an obstacle. (5)
6 Fish employees with the plain
standard. (9)
7 Asses’ rib is broken clubs. (8)
9 —Beating up the bone in the bag.
(7)
11 —Remote but slight breezes with
cheap beer in skirts. (12)
15 — Sue who married Jude the
Obscure is obviously a participant
in a wedding and boss. (9)
16— Put back to sleep, but love
blushing. (8)
17 — Kangaroo heel with the box-office
beneath. (7)
23 —Not a very advanced town in
N.S.W? (5)
25 — Finished. (5)
26 — What skating needs as a basis
to turn in Boadicea’s people. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 266


NSW SERIES
DIESELS
★ MODERN ★ POWERFUL
★ SLOW REVVING
★ SMOOTH RUNNING
★ EVERY ENGINE
INDIVIDUALLY TESTED
' <
iM '
j
★ EVERY ENGINE
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
★ : " ’X^ ‘ r ' / s',' .
★ NON-STOP USE
:■ .
IV :
•>
EXCHANGE ENGINE AVAILABLE TO MARS USERS
BMiT waw^
VB iiilw
■
I ]
■l.
n
= i 1
L: m%***
: i
mmmm in
IvHl/lpr
®'
ilr
\ ■ k
■ ; ■-•
HI I
■
1
\
m
ti%n
i < ■
iB»K
■
Ci.ll
I—
lllrv?
11
■ /
m
m
m
mem
f:
V
ia
MARS 5 H.P.
WATCH FOR
THE MARS
NEW SERIES
10 H.P. DIESEL
m
m
■ll
■
i
H
MARS 8 H.P.
MARS 3 H.P.
SELF-SERVICE REBUILD KITS AVAILABLE-WRITE FOR DETAILS
EMERGENCY REPLACEMENTS AT YOUR DISPOSAL 24 HRS. A DAY
SOLD & SERVICED BY THE MANUFACTURERS
★ A Select group of old-established organisations has been appointed to assist you locally
mm
■
72i.
B
m
$
©
m
E
s
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth St., Adelaide. TAS.: Perkins
r Pty. Ltd.. 345 Collins Street, Hobart. INDIA (Bombay Province): R. S. Mehta & Co.. Ah Chambers, Port Bombay.
' PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTO.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
