

ĵh
h
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
WAGES AND SKILL
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3882
Wednesday, July 7, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
HIS BATTLES WON, THE BLACK PRINCE RESTS AT CANTERBURY
THE ancient city of Canterbury suffered severely at the hands of the
enemy during the 1939-45 war when a large part of the shopping centre
was destroyed On the night of May 31, 1942, the Cathedral came near to
destruction when a fierce attack from the air was made upon the city.
Fifteen high-explosives fell within the precincts of the Cathedral and
incendiary bombs rained upon it. The preservation of the building, except for
the Cathedral Library, can only be regarded as a miracle and future pilgrims
io Canterbury will go with the added knowledge that once more, as through
the centuries, she has weathered the storm of attacks by a ruthless enemy and
risen from her ordeal with added lustre to her name.
Within the Cathedral may be seen the Royal tombs of Henry IV (1399-1413)
and Queen Joan of Navarre as well as that of Edward the Black Prince
(1330-1376), who not only visited the Cathedral after the Battle of Poitiers in
1356 with his prisoner, the King of France, but, in celebration of his
marriage to “the fair maid of Kent,” afterwards built the beautiful Chantry
still called by his name. His effigy-tomb, shown in the accompanying illus-
tration, lies between the south piers of the Trinity Chapel. Tradition asserts
that his name of Black Prince originated from the fact that he always
wore black armour in battle. This redoubtable fighter was the eldest son
of King Edward 111 and was bom at Woodstock in 1330.
His military career began with the French campaign of 1346 when he
distinguished himself at Crecy and at the siege of Calais. Ten years later,
in 1356, he again defeated the French at the Battle of Poitiers, where 8,000
Englishmen routed the French army of 60,000, and he returned in triumph
with the captive King John of France.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters: —
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Dally Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 264 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1254) AGE
The Red Page
WHITE COOLIES
White Coolies, by Betty Jeffrey (Angus
and Robertson), is a first-hand account
of experiences of Australian nurses in
Japanese hands, with the sombre dedica-
tion “To those nurses who did not return.”
An obvious comparison with White
Coolies is Agnes Keith’s Three Came
Home. Both books were written by white
women interned by the Japanese, the one
an Australian nurse captured when the
Vyner Brooke was sunk leaving Singapore,
the other the American wife of a British
official in Borneo. There are differences
in geography and literary treatment, but
the human material, European and
Asiatic, the camps, the life and color and
variety, the disease and brutality and
death, are sufficiently similar to make a
comparison of the books almost inevit-
able. In both books there is horror,
sharpened, if anything, by restraint in
language, but made tolerable by a certain
strength of spirit.
Made tolerable, that is to say, within
limits. The treatment of Australian
nurses by the Japanese is a painful sub-
ject. It was, uniquely in the last war,
an affront to our conception of humanity,
and a blow in the face to our national
pride. The treatment by the Japanese of
Australian soldiers who were p.-0.-w.
was bad enough. But the treatment of
white women and, in particular (so far
as it affected Australia), of the Australian
nurses, had the character of a deadly
insult, and of a fundamental collision
of values. What the reaction was in
Australia at the time, this reviewer does
not know. But he heard of it in a p.-0.-w.
camp in Germany, the news filtering in
from German sources. Even there, dissi-
pated by distance and the suspicion of
rumor, the news had its impact, its
sting: which was felt, too, by individual
Germans, as an insult and challenge.
So what happened to a handful of
women in one part of the world can
spread, through the censorship and
destruction of war, to the other side of
the world and arouse echoes even in the
heart of the enemy. And here is the
story of a survivor. It is a little too raw
and recent not to make painful reading.
Betty Jeffrey does not exaggerate the
horror, but neither does she gloss over
facts of starvation, massacre, cruel beat-
ings, filth, lack of hygiene, privacy, or
any care for the sick (by the Japanese),
heavy, almost impossible labor, the
attempt to force the girls into brothels
for Japanese officers, and other things
which one cannot read without some
echo of the author’s comment “They
are not men!”
That was written in white-hot anger,
at the time, in the darkness of physical
misery. But there seems no good reason
why we should forget these things, if for
no other reason than that in tragedy
there is usually a lesson.
This reviewer read Three Came Home
when it was published some years ago,
and has not since seen a copy. Details
of geography have faded, but the form
and color of the book, the distinction of
the style, and the quality of the mind
behind it, are alike unforgettable. There
was a lovely opening, a picture of family
life, the home of a cultivated official
Englishman in the East, revealed with
a warmth that was not quite English: a
delicacy, an elegance, a happy drowsiness
shot with rich color, rather like the im-
pression of a tea-party in a tropical
garden. Children, servants, books,
pleasant people (“Not,” the author
remarked somewhere, “Somerset
Maugham’s Europeans in the East”),
charming jungle creatures, not so much
pets as honored guests.
War drifts over this tranquillity and
civilised living in rumors, denials, dis-
belief. A subtle creation of atmosphere
with internment, nevertheless, a surprise,
a brutal wrench into another world.
Betty Jeffrey, on the other hand,
plunges into action in the first chapter,
with the evacuation from Singapore, the
bombing and sinking of the Vyner
Brooke, and the swim ashore. The women
start almost in holiday mood, laughing,
talking, paddling, clinging to rafts, giving
one or another a hand. Of the 53 who
swam or were washed ashore the Imperial
Japanese Army massacred 21, the others
were taken prisoner. But the swim was
heroic ; for a man, that is to say, a strong
and stout-hearted man. For women . . .
Here are extracts, lines taken from two
chapters, with gaps in sequence ; a mere
glimpse:
The two small children with us were very
good and they slept most of the time in
Sister Ennis’s arms. It was very rough and
dark and we rocked and tossed until every-
body was sick. During the storm the little
girl awakened and her tiny voice said
“Auntie, I want to go upstairs” We
came in towards the lighthouse again and
I suggested to Matron, “Let’s give her
twenty and we’ll make it.” We nearly
did, but the currents wouldn’t let us, and
out to sea we went for the third time....
There was no light nor any sound of life
at all as they stopped. From the third
ship came many large motor-boats, each
one packed with armed Japanese soldiers;
they surrounded us, chatting away, then
one boat came alongside—what an awful
sinking feeling we had! They looked at
us, spoke to us in Japanese, then went
in fan-shaped formation towards the town
of Muntok. All this left a pretty awful
taste in our mouths... -They called to us,
but we didn’t have a chance of getting back
to it.... We never saw Matron Paschke and
those sisters again. They were wonderful.
[Last line in chapter I.]
[First line chapter 2]: We didn’t see the
two Malays after about an hour—they just
disappeared.
I kept my eyes on lole as she got farther
away from me. My stinging, swollen hands
were nearly driving me crazy and my pro-
gress was very slow. lole was visible only
as a blob about four-hundred yards away.
Now and again there would be a white
blob and I realised then that she was
turning round looking for me. I waved ;
she waved back. Then the blob was black
again, going on its way....We both went
to sleep on a dead and leafless tree, our
bodies floating We spent the remainder
of that day swimming up creeks and down
again—because they all ended in 'dense
jungle crabs suddenly something
would go flop into the water beside or
behind us. And fish would go flipping
along the surface of the water in an upright
position on their tails lole was about
fifteen yards ahead of me when suddenly
she turned round and called, “Oh, by the
way, what’s your name?” We bad been
swimming together for twenty-eight hours!
So we paused, while we formally intro-
duced ourselves, looked each other over,
and exchanged names and addresses. As
we belonged to different units we had
never met before. She was a little person,
about five-feet high, had very wet, short
black curly sair and the smallest and
prettiest hands I had ever seen.
The water was far too salty to drink....
we were swimming up the creeks to see if
we could get to fresher water.... Once when
I was sinking in that slimy soft mud and
my legs and arms had disappeared in it,
I suddenly saw ahead of me very plainly
the white sheepskin mat in front of the
fireplace at home—l also saw my father
sitting in his armchair with a “Herald”
over his face, asleep.... Huge birds flew at
us, hitting our faces with their wings—they
were horrible... .During the night lole kept
pointing down at the oily black water and
saying to me, “There are the beds, why
don’t you get into one?”—and was furious
when I refused. I could see Sister Win
Davis giving an orderly a glass of water and
asking him to bring it to us ; I saw this
every time I closed my eyes for the next
two days....We must have swum many
miles that d*y towards the beach at Muntok.
We saw a few crocodiles. Late that night
we found the river— -a big one this time....
We rushed to the water again and called
to two natives in a small boat, but. they
didn’t take the slightest notice of us.
During the night we heard some animal
coming slowly toward us, snapping dead
twigs as it came. We were scared stiff.
Then two large eyes appeared above us ; it
sniffed us all over, and —thank Heaven —
went away again.
They were picked-up in the morning
by the Malay fishermen they had hailed
before, taken to a village, given food, and
later were collected by the Japanese.
They had been three days in the water;
or, at best, clinging to trees at night, or
retreating before the tide on mudbanks.
Then swimming again.
Agnes Keith was a polished writer,
whose Land Below the Wind had been
translated into Japanese before the war ;
and a Japanese officer’s respect for the
book possibly saved the author’s life.
Where Betty Jeffrey saw only incompre-
hensible savagery, Agnes Keith saw the
savagery, noted it, but had a scholar’s
interest in what lay behind it. Not that
her book is at all cold, or dry. It is,
rather, passionate and poetic. But there
is a scrupulous balance in her writing,
and her portrait of the Japanese officer
mentioned is a vivid impression of a
complex personality tormented by two
civilisations, and has a sort of final
wisdom.
Three Came Home is (in this reviewer’s
opinion) one of the finest books to come
out of the Second World War: perhaps
the most moving book that came out
of the war. It is superior as a work of
art to White Coolies, and not inferior to
it as a human document. But, by the
same high standards, taking into account
the great mass of books written about
the war, and applying no local judgment.
White Coolies is in the same class.
Betty Jeffrey has succeeded, almost
without trying. Her style is plain, collo-
quial, sometimes slangy. The book was
written as a diary, hidden, taken out
again, put away for long periods. It has
the heat and darkness of the moment
in it, and, at the same time, the idiom
of girls talking over cups of tea in an
Australian hospital.
J.F.
Adam and Eve
Two Australian editions of plays about
the world’s first married couple, and a
poem on the same subject by Dorothy
Auchterlonie, suggest that interest in
man’s first disobedience is as great as
ever it was. The first play is Adam
(Shakespeare Head), a translation by
Father John W. Doyle, S.J., of Sydney,
of “the greatest of the medieval vernacu-
lar plays,” from the Anglo-Norman,
written about 1160. The second play is
an Australian edition of C. P. Sanger’s
translation of The Tragedy of Man, writ-
ten in 1862 by the Hungarian poet Imre
Madach ; first put out in London 20 years
ago, it is done here by Pannonia.
Played before a church porch which
represents Heaven, Father Doyle’s play
has a few barrowfuls of earth to repre-
sent Cain’s and Abel’s fields, trees and
flowers on a raised platform to represent
the earthly paradise on the left, and on
the right a frame structure of a monster’s
gaping jaws to represent hell-mouth. The
translation of the beautifully simple old
dialogue is in irregular verse, a verse
of cadenced phrases.
In this old play Adam is several times
tempted, but Eve falls from the moment
the devil begins to commiserate with her
on having so unworthy a husband:
Neither for his own self will he take care:
Would that he did so at least for thee—
thou art tender,
delicate:
the rose is not so fresh;
crystal not so white,
or snow that falls on valley ice:
Bad pairing the Creator made:
too tender thou,
and he too hard ....
The play goes on to a second act with
the story of Cain and Abel; and in the
third act the Bible’s kings and prophets
are called upon one after another to
appear and bear testimony, much as at a
Salvation Army meeting, only, of course,
in costume ; and in the conclusion, which
Father Doyle has supplied to the incom-
plete manuscript, “players and audience
move into the church.”
The more ambitious Madach drama
begins with a prologue in Heaven ; then
the Garden-of-Eden scene in which Adam
and Eve succumb after very little temp-
tation ; and then while they are making
their first home outside Eden Lucifer
puts them to sleep and shows them in a
dream their future history. In the Egyp-
tian scene Adam is Pharaoh, Eve the wife
of a slave ; in the Athenian, Adam is the
commander Miltiades, executed through
the plotting of demagogues; in the
Roman, Adam is a debauchee friend of
Catullus and Eve a courtesan; in the
Constantinople scene Adam is the
Crusader Tancred. In Prague Adam is
the astronomer and astrologer Kepler
and Eye his unfaithful wife; in Paris he
is Danton and Eve a peasant woman;
in London Adam is a decrepit man in
scenes of the industrial revolution.
But the most remarkable scene, for a
book written in the 1860’s, is the “Phalan-
ster ’ scene, a preview of a world of Com-
munist living, in which women weep as
their children are taken away by the
State, and Adam, on being told that
Perfect workmanship is guaranteed
Because a man who makes a screw to-day
Remains at screw-making through all his
days,
remarks,
Then the work has no life, no individuality,
Which lives on after the craftsman’s death.
Where is the opportunity for power and
thought
To demonstrate their heavenly descent?
And if you think these and a thousand
other speculations by the world’s Adams
upon their progenitor exhaust the subtle-
ties of the male mind and the possibilities
of she old story, then have a look at the
spec ulations of an Australian Eve, printed
with these remarks.
THE TREE
He watched them as they walked towards
the tree,
Through the green garden when the leaves
stood still.
He saw his scarlet fruit hang tremulously:
He whispered, "Eat it if you will,”
Knowing as yet they had no will but his,
Were as his hand, his foot, his braided hair.
His own face mockjed him from his own
abyss:
He whispered, "Eat it if you dare!”
Without him they could neither will nor
dare;
Courage and will yet slumbered in the
fruit,
Desire forbore, they still were unaware
That doubt was set to feed the root.
God held his breath: If they should miss it
now,
Standing within the shadow of the tree . . .
Always the I, never to know the Thou
Imprisoned in my own eternity.
“Death sits within the fruit, you’ll surely
die!”
He scarcely formed the words upon a
breath:
“O liberating seed! Eat then and I
For this release will die your every death.
“Thus time shall be confounded till you
come
Full-circle to this garden where we stand,
From the dark maze of knowledge, with
the sum
Of good and evil in your hand.
“Then you will shed the journey you have
made,
See millenniums fall about your feet,
Behold the light that flares within each
blade
Of grass, the visible paraclete.”
The harsh Word stirred the leaves, the
fruit glowed red,
Adam’s foot struck against the root;
He saw his naked doubt and raised his
head:
Eve stretched her hand and plucked the
fruit.
N.S.W.
DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE.
Court Martial
By Alastair Mars, D. 5.0., D.S.C. and
bar, Court Martial (Shakespeare Head)
will cause considerable controversy both
inside and outside the Navy. A personal-
experience book, it deals with one of the
few occasions on which one man has
bucked the power and prestige of
“Admiralty” ; a David against a Goliath |
of brass.
Human nature being human, there is
always sympathy for a midget opposed
to an overpowering enemy, but whereas
the minor force usually has little but
misguided and misinformed sympathy for
his cause to support him, in Mars’s case
we find a tough, seasoned, highly-decor-
ated submarine commander of 25 years’ \
service tackling the system ; a David who,
when Malta was reeling, had command
of the only British submarine operating
in the Western Mediterranean ; who sank
over 30,000 enemy tons, survived 400
depth-charges, took part in four secret j
landing-operations, and took on, alone, 12 ]
enemy warships and destroyed two of|
them —both heavy cruisers.
Therefore this book cannot be dis-
missed as the disgruntled whingeing of \
a “messdeck lawyer,” deserving of all he jj
gets.
The Admiralty case against Mars was ]
that he had failed to take up an appoint-1
ment in England in 1952, Some reviewers!
have condemned the submariner for this ]
“wilful disobeying of a lawful com- i
mand” ; one Quoted the maxim: “Obey;]
first, argue afterwards.”
Fair enough, except that Mars had been
obeying orders, with commendable dis-
tinction, for a quarter of a century ; as a
submarine commander he knew better,
than most the necessity for doing just
that; and his failure to take up his
appointment to another ship, while
ashore, was a deliberate attempt to bring
his business to a head.
What that business was—bad pay; ,S
inadequate (in some cases, disgusting)-
accommodation for naval officers and
their families on foreign stations; punish-1
ment, through being sent to a stagnant
backwater serving in small ships in j
reserve, for standing for Parliament and;
criticising my Lords of the Admiralty—j
Mars describes succinctly, documenting
his complaints with facts and figures.
((Continued on page JO)


Your Venetian Blinds
any size or colour NOW
Now, during winter, is the time to buy your Venetian blinds; you wait the shortest
possible time. (Most people buy Venetians in spring, and so the factories
become inundated with orders.) And Anthony Horderns’ is the best place to buy them.
NOW
ORDER
«S^:;Xnv..
'xW;:■;::¥*■•::*■
mm&sM
m
''<* -
=36
1
. ..
m
*
mm
f: .
■—
f
fS*
>-
ISi
m
mm
mi
r
Send for our Free Booklet on how to
measure for Blinds and Wire Screen
Doors .
Best terms, best materials, reliable
workmanship.
Venetian blinds on the Third Floor.
iiisi
E 3
sews
m
**:*>
~ * ;.
-> * * >
The newest bedspread by Gladys Grieve has a
cushion top design, is in candlewick pile chenille .
The extra return sham means plenty of cover for pillow, the skirt
remains perfectly level, tool This bedspread will fit any style bed.
3ft., £l5/10/-. 3ft. 6in. and 4ft. 6in., £l5/15/-.
Imported tapestry table covers
They wear well, have blue or green base with a
pretty pattern in beige. Size is 60in. x 90in. 79/6.
Table cover, Third Floor.
h
■
imported velvet cushion
covers
They’re in rich tonings, have a high
sheen. In animal designs of
puppies, kittens, reindeers, polar
bears, camels or dancers. Satin
back, ready to slip on cushion.
1 Sin. x 1 Sin. 15/11.
•1
Russack door pads, keep
you warm
Protect your floor coverings,
weather-proof* and draught-proof
your home with these interior
draught pads. 3 1 in., 33in.j 35in.,
12/6. Exterior pads, 32in., 34in.
and 36in., 17/3,
■:
j
M
E
3^^
8 S 3
Festoons for glass doors
Festoons in high sheened cream
cotton/rayon fabrics or beige satin.
Stock size 2ft. 3in. x 6ft. at 75/-.
Also in slightly lighter weight cream
satin pticed 65/-.
ANTHONY HORDERNS* FURNISHING
GROUND FLOOR.
MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 7, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3882
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand i Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
WAGES AND SKILL
The decision of the Federal Government to intervene
in the margins case when it again comes before the
Arbitration Court is a departure from the previous
practice of the Menzies Government, but it may mean
that a realistic case for margins for skill will now be
put before the court for the first time. Up to the
present all the court has heard has been a plea by the
unions for a general increase in all margins—for skilled,
semi-skilled and unskilled workers —to compensate for
the decline in the buying-power of money since 1947,
and argument from the employers for a reduction of
margins for the second and,third of these classifications.
In postponing the margins case last February the
court rejected, not for the first time, the principle that
margins should be adjusted in accordance with varia-
tions in purchasing-power and said that, having only
recently refused to vary the basic wage, it was “not
justified in decreeing a considerable increase in the
level of the secondary wage-structure.” The judgment
also said that the decision to postpone the hearing
should not be read as determining claims which may
be made for increases in salary- or wage-rates for
more-highly-paid employees than those with whom
w© are immediately concerned in these proceed-
ings —
The general tenor of the judges’ remarks seemed to
imply that the unions should reconsider their case
before the resumption of the hearing on November 9,
and that arguments for an increase in margins for the
more-highly-skilled tradesmen would have a better
chance of acceptance than a repetition of claims for a
general increase. What, in fact, the unions were con-
fronted with was a challenge to make up their minds
whether they would accept the chance to improve the
position of their skilled members or, by continuing
the policy of allowing the unskilled to ride
on the backs of the skilled, lose for the present the
chance of gaining any increases at all.
Since the war the tendency of every wage-change
in Australia has been towards lessening the advantage
of the qualified man over the unqualified. The 40-hour
week, flat increases in the basic wage, quarterly
adjustments, prosperity-loadings, long-service leave,
increased annual leave —all these have had the levelling
effect of bringing the unskilled man’s reward nearer to
that of the skilled. This, in the long-run, must result
in killing initiative and discouraging the desire to
acquire skills on which society apparently places no
value.
In announcing the Government’s policy last week,
Mr. Holt said the intention was to emphasise to the
court the importance of maintaining a sufficient margin
between the wages of skilled and unskilled workers.
He spoke of the Government’s “lively appreciation of
the predicament of the skilled worker,” but added:
So long as his claims are submerged in a claim for
general increases applicable to almost every class of
worker in industry, he runs the risk that it will be
found again the economy cannot stand such a general
increase without involving Australia in the hazard
of a return to inflation and of weakening the com-
petitive position of many Australian industries.
That is the attitude The Bulletin has been main-
taining for a long time. If the present level of wages
is, as the court has stated it to be, the highest industry
can bear, then any additional margins granted should
go to the encouragement of those to whom the
community looks for any increase in production. Skill,
training, experience, know-how—these are the things
that merit recognition.
Mr. Holt quoted the case of the tradesman who,
after a five-year apprenticeship and technical-school
training, receives only 30s. a week more than the laborer
who assists him. There are cases even more glaring.
Not long ago a Sydney Water Board advertisement
offered motor-mechanics £l5 a Week ; fitters, £l5;
pick-and-shovel laborers, £l4 7s. 6d. The tradesmen’s
margin over the unskilled laborer was 12s. 6d. In the
long-run a policy which approves this sort of thing
must be fatal to the national economy, however
popular it may be with vote-chasing politicians or
trade-union officials seeking favor with the mob.
After the Minister’s statement had been published
the Ironworkers’ Association accused the Government
of “running an iron-curtain between tradesmen and
non-tradesmen.” This is nonsense. On grounds of
skill and capacity there must be a considerable gap
between the wage-rates of the two groups if industry
is not to stagnate; the trade-union movement recognises
this in principle, but endeavors in practice to lessen or
abolish it. In the present organisation of the “Labor”
movement this is inevitable. The A.C.T.U. is dominated
by the big unions, whose strength is in their numbers
and the majority of whose members are unskilled.
The “Labor” party, despite its sprinkling of
intellectuals and doctrinaires, is largely the party of the
unskilled and uninformed.. Skilled tradesmen and semi-
professional workers who have given any study to the
trend of recent years must by now have very consider-
able doubts of the ability of the unions or the A.L.P.
to gain for them their just share of the wages-pool in
competition with the clamorous voices of the unskilled
majority. The Government’s decision to support their
case in court gives them a better hope of getting
it than they have had for a long, long time.
Billionaire Government
It was normal that all State “Labor” Premiers should
complain, playing politics, when the results of the
Commonwealth’s financial decisions were conveyed to
them at the Premiers’ Conference. It was also normal
that Mr. Cahill’s indignation should be the loudest,
and that he should impute wrong actions and improper
motives to the Federal authorities and twist his facts
to suit his arguments.
The Federal attitude was more than generous,.
But it was based not on a desire to provide a Govern-
ment like Mr. Cahill’s with the means to buy votes on
an unlimited scale as a prelude to the next State
election, but to relieve industry and the ordinary tax-
payer of some of the burden loaded on to him by
“Labor” Governments in the wasteful war years—and >
still being loaded on to him now by the “Labor”
movement in go-slow, loaf and the 40-hour week and
exactions of unearned margins. The crux of the policy
of Mr. Menzies and Sir Arthur Fadden is tax-reduction
in the 1954-55 Budget. They are concerned to promote
new or expanded private reproductive works, invest-
ment from overseas, the reduction of prices and the
expansion of real assets.
Their policy is one which aims immediately at
removing some of the handicap which hampers expan-
sion and rationalisation of costs and prices rather than
that which hampers Mr. Cahill and Mr. Cain in buying
votes, and maintaining the Vitnells and their like in
the opulence to which they are accustomed, while
careless “Labor” Administrations open the way for
their operations under Government contracts.
Less loan-money (£32 million, against £37 million
the previous *year) is being set aside under the Com-
monwealth-States Housing Agreement. But private
enterprise (given labor) is pretty well able
to take care of the housing programme of
the Commonwealth now, apart from the fact
that, through private enterprise, individual assets
are created which add to the solidity of the
economy, while the efforts of State Housing Com-
missions seem to be directed partly to the creation
of expensive potential slums. And some of
the public works which call for the cream and vote-
buying part of State programmes are better done
without. They produce little except permanent interest-
bills. The States have ample resources with which to
deal with normal activities. That the £2OO million
which this year the Loan Council will find for the
States —it was agreed to on a majority-vote, Cahill and
Cain dissenting—will be ample is proved by the fact
that last year they had a £2O million surplus left over
from an equal allocation. In fact, having regard to
the fact that the Commonwealth must convert or
redeem £286 million in public loans during the coming
year, it seems too much that the union-ridden Bumbles
of Macquarie-street and Spring-street and their like
should have the product of the whole of the year’s
new public borrowing within the Commonwealth
handed over to them. The taxpayers can well do this
year with the £74 million which the Commonwealth
last year set apart from revenue to underwrite the
borrowing on States’ behalf.
On the revenue side, the States’ case was just as
weak as that which backed its demand for loans.
The Cahill Government had been hard put
to it to get rid of the funds in its Treasury, as
Mr. Treatt has pointed out, even though it is
an adept at throwing money about. Or perhaps Mr.
Treatt does it an injustice; it may be saving up for
a grand election-fling. However, its difficulties in
spending what it had got did not deter Mr. Cahill
at Canberra from yelling for more. The attitude of Mr.
Playford (S.A.), who, with his expanding industries and
constant fuel problems, has more just claim to generous
treatment than any of the rest, nevertheless
embarrassed him considerably. Mr. Playford asked
for £l5O million in tax-reimbursements for the six
States. Mr. Cahill asked for £163 million. Mr. Playford
said: “Last year we got £142 million; this year £l5O
million is reasonable.” Mr. Cosgrove of Tasmania
supported his view, but asked for an extra £1,500,000
to cover Tasmania’s loss of lottery-taxation, of which
Mr. Cain in Victoria will have the benefit in future.
The Commonwealth thought the Playford view
reasonable. Mr. Cahill gets £59 million, which is
£2,781,000 more than last year, to run his
departments. His £52.8 million of loan money
will be about £400,000 less than he was
given last year, and all of which he did
not succeed in spending. All the other States receive
more than last year —in Victoria the increase is over
£2,000,000; in Queensland, £1,155,000. N. S. Wales
has a loan-allocation of nearly £65 million for housing
and public works, Victoria £53 million. These two
highly developed States take over half the kitty to spend
on about one-eighth the total area of Australia.
Certainly if there is any criticism of the loan pro-
gramme it is that the undeveloped States should have
more consideration than those which are heavily
populated and crowding their populations every day
more into huge cities which produce no original
economic resources.
The Middle-class Irish
“Finnigan” : “They always went forth to battle, and
they were always defeated,” a rather unkind description
of Irish history, could be applied to the Liberals in
N.S.W. of late years: defeated in five successive elec-
tions, and with no immediate prospects of doing better.
The Irish names are conspicuously on the Government,
side of the House.
There is a rich Chestertonian paradox about the
whole situation. The Irish, traditionally “agin’ the
Government,” are firmly entrenched in a Government
with authoritarian tendencies strong enough to alarm
a number of people, the writer included, who, so far
as N.S.W. politics are concerned, are inclined to cry
“a plague on both your houses.” It is generally con-
ceded that a strong resentment of injustice is charac-
teristic of the race; politically, anyway, the Irish are
considered most brilliant in Opposition. But the party
which seems likely to go down in political history as
the permanent Opposition in N.S.W. has no prominent
Irish-Australians. The reason being that they are not
wanted in the Liberal party of N.S.W. At least, that is
my belief, shared by a good many Irish-Australians.
There is a lunatic fringe to all religions. But
World War I did much to kill sectarian bitterness. It
is hard to live side-by-side with a man, sharing his
hardships and dangers, and think of him in the
abstract terms necessary for sectarian hatred. World
War 11, in my opinion, did much to complete the
fusion. As a Roman Catholic I think with pride of the
reputation earned by individual priests as Army
chaplains. As an Australian I think with admiration of
the behavior of individual Protestant padres. These
things breed respect and understanding and tolerance.
A good deal of the strength and generosity of
Australia sailed with the First A.I.F, In Australia,
and in most of the belligerent countries, the war-
years saw the rise of an unpleasant form of jingoism
(of the kind that wanted to change the name “kinder-
garten”), a militant wowserism, some rather sickening
profiteering, and, in general, an excessive meddling
with the affairs of others: often enough in the name
of patriotism. In both world wars there had been a
rise of bureaucracy at home; stealthy, in the first
war, gigantic and spectacular in the second war. And,
m this paradise of the second-rate man, sectarian issues
flourished. ,
For the record, 20.9 per cent, of enlistments in the
First A.I.F. were Roman Catholics; an exact pro-
portion of their numbers in the community.
The early Irish in Australia were mostly poor,
illiterate and Roman Catholic. Some were convicts
sent out after the ’9B rebellion ; some were convicts for
less idealistic reasons. After the potato famine of
1840-41, when the population of” Ireland fell by one
and a half million, survivors flocked to America and
Australia. Later immigrants came from the same
social classes.
These Irish were the laboring classes. The more
gifted of their sons became prominent in trade-unions
and in Labor politics, and, in Labor politics down to
the present day, the Irish have exerted a somewhat
disproportionate influence. There were vigorous
fighters among them, and there were real injustices to
fight. In the country another class of Irish-Australians
was gradually emerging. Hardworking, rather clannish,
plain people, some of them were later to become
great pastoral families. But not, as a rule, political
families. Later, middle-class Irish-Australians, busi-
nessmen and professional men, became more numerous.
Their place in politics, and particularly in N-S.W.
politics, is not yet appreciated.
Take my own case. My father, who is still living,
was a laborer. I have been fairly successful in a pro-
fession which has given me intellectual satisfaction and
material rewards. My children were educated at
“exclusive” —that is to say, expensive—schools. I
mention this neither in boast nor derogation. They
were, in fact, very good schools: and, at the same
time, I recognise in my parental behavior the pattern
of the self-made man. The point is that in one family
we represent the evolution of a class, with shadings
of experience. What concerns the politicians is that
we all vote.
Despite fairly sharp differences in experience, we
all resent being asked to vote for a party which
shows plainly that it does not want men of our
religion and racial origin. I am referring to the Liberal
party in N.S.W. In Queensland, for instance, the same
conditions do not obtain. So that is—or could be —
eight votes thrown away in N.S.W. A man of my
background has lively memories of sectarian prejudice
in his early career ; a certain emotional hangover for
Labor, based on its earlier history, and on personal
friendships; and, at the same time, an intellectual
preference for the Liberal party.
That is, for the Liberal party as represented by
R. G. Menzies. There are other names, in the N.S.W.
liberal party, past and present, which we don’t like.
On the other hand, to put it on the lowest level, self-
interest prompts us to vote Liberal. At a higher level,
Labor tendencies towards an authoritarian State, and a
“bread-and-circuses” approach to public affairs, make
us uneasy. There seem two alternatives. Either the
Liberal party in N.S.W. opens its ranks to the fittest
among us, politically, to make our voice heard in
Parliament, or a good many who have been hanging
on the sidelines will throw their energies into Labor
politics. Believing, as many do, that the best chance
for leadership will come from a split in that party.
Which will mean a term in the wilderness, but a return
of a new party, purged of doctrinaire Socialism and
Tammany Hall politicians, and stronger than before.


SHOWING A LIGHT


PLAIN ENGLISH
Historic Week
Histor* might well place the last week
of June, 1954, among the crucial
occasions of the post-war decade. It ex-
hibited the dangerous trends of the times.
It proved by the declaration issued by
Sir Winston Churchill and President
Eisenhower that the English-speaking
nations had nothing new to offer politic-
ally in solutions of world unrest, noth-
ing to check the Communist advance
except sheer force.
The declaration simply piled a few
more words on the mountains already
fabricated since the San Francisco Con-
ference. “In intimate comradeship we
shall continue our united efforts to
secure world peace based on the prin-
ciples of the Atlantic Charter.... .we hold
out the hand of friendship to all nations
which pledge themselves to share in a
just and fair peace... .we uphold the
ideals of self-government.. . .we are
against prolonging the captivity of for-
merly sovereign States in bondage... .we
believe that peace would be advanced by
general and drastic reduction under
effective safeguards of all classes of world
armaments.,. .we believe nuclear forces
should be used to enrich and not to
destroy mankind we will continue to
support the United Nations ” and so
on. They agreed that the plans for col-
lective defence of South-East Asia should
be pressed forward.
And while they talked the United
States and the South Pacific British
Dominions were separately, in Anzus
Council, holding what Mr. Casey called
“a quiet conference on a most confiden-
tial basis which will enable us to see
the future in the Pacific more clearly,”
but which “informed sources” in Wash-
ington believed would “discuss in broad
outline methods to contain Communist
aggression in South-East Asia.” The
members agreed on the need for immedi-
ate action for South-East Asian defence,
and expressed satisfaction at the views of
Eisenhower and Churchill, which every-
body knew quite well without a con-
ference, but their statement was “much
stronger” than that issued by the two
leaders, thus leaning to the separate
American viewpoint.
Meanwhile events were moving out
of control in Asia. There is no balking
the fact that the visit of Chou En-lai to
India was a triumph, that the Indian
attitude was enthusiastic, that in the light
of what happened at Delhi and Burma
the West can go and whistle by itself if
the rapprochement between Peking and
Nehru goes much further^
The essential fact is that the Asian
nations, outside perhaps Japan, are trend-
ing towards a purely Asian policy, which
might ,in a short time exclude the West
altogether and declare an Asian zone of
influence or control which would com-
prehend everything from Australia north-
wards and west to the Mediterranean.
Western influence in India and Pakistan
is probably at its height now, and will
tend to weaken rather than increase as
the British government of India and its
methods become memories and the pres-
sure of Russia and China on the weak
and talkative nations of the south —Indo-
China, Malaya, Indonesia, India, Burma
—increases.
It is very easy for the great Western
countries to talk of need for immediate
collective action. But the chance of doing
anything about it short of a world war
is very small. The French withdrawals
from the whole of the southern portion
of the rich Red River Delta ricelands,
holding 2,000,000 inhabitants, without
firing a shot, on to shortened lines cover-
ing Haiphong and Hanoi, may be a mili-
tary measure to strengthen the defences
of the beachhead of the French Expedi-
tionary Force. Or it may be a surrender
of territory secretly agreed upon as a
preliminary to a cease-fire agreement and
the handing-over of the whole north of
Vietnam except Haiphong to the Reds —
an arrangement to which the Reds would
scarcely agree on any permanent basis.
But the reality lies in the fact that the
French would not have surrendered this
area, with its large ingredients of Chris-
tian population and its food-productive
capacity if there had been any chance of
holding it, even though they may feel
more able to defend a short line if
Geneva plans fail. If they had thought
that any plans were in train by United
Nations Allies which would be likely to
halt the tide of the Red advance south-
ward within reasonable time they would
not have retired.
The whole West anxiously awaits the
outcome of French negotiations for an
armistice —which, however favorable,
must result in a loss of face —and even
more anxiously to see whether M.
Mendes-France will refuse to back the
European Defence Army, a procedure
which will certainly result, in the end, in
full-scale Western German rearmament.
£56-million Surplus
The Federal Government has finished
the 1953-54 financial year with a surplus
of £56 million over an expenditure of
£960 million, which includes payments
and reimbursements to the States.
Expenditure was £22 million under
the estimate of £982 million, and revenue
was £34 million above the estimate of
£982 million (estimated surplus was just
£215,000). In the preceding year the sur-
plus had been £13.4 million; the year
before that, £98.5 million. The surplus
in each of these years was used to under-
write State loan requirements.
In the present year the Commonwealth
has declined to underwrite borrowings on
behalf of the States, and the surplus will
be available for tax-reductions and such
additional expenditure as the Govern-
ment has committed itself to in 1954-55,
During this year assessable incomes
should remain high, most businesses,
companies, firms and primary producers
being taxable during the current term on
their incomes for the past year. Pay-as-
you-go tax-revenue, as the new financial
year opens, is probably at a higher
level than it was this time last year.
Employment is at an extremely high point,
though average earnings are levelling-off
under the wage-freeze.
The wheat position remains one of the
doubtful factors in the new financial
year. It could affect both revenue and
expenditure adversely. Also, something
will depend on how the loan market sup-
ports the States’ public-works pro-
grammes.
Who Bashed Studley-Ruxton?
The royal commission into allegations by
David Studley-Ruxton that he had been
assaulted at Darlinghurst police-station
by seven police-officers ended last Friday.
Studley-Ruxton, who, in the later stages
of the hearing, was without legal repre-
sentation, had been granted permission to
present his final address in writing.
On Thursday, when Studley-Ruxton
presented his submissions, the commis-
sioner (Dovey, J.) said:
After a cursory glance, it is perfectly
plain that this has been prepared very
carefully by someone who is experienced
in the matters on which submissions are
made. This is Mr. Poole’s composition,
isn’t it?
Studley-Ruxton admitted that that was
so, and said that he was under the im-
pression his Honor had told him he could
seek “friendly assistance.” His Honor
agreed that that was so, and said he pro-
posed to accept the document, though he
did not want anyone to be under the mis-
apprehension that he was being deluded
into the belief that Studley-Ruxton was
responsible for it.
The address covered 58 typewritten
pages. It concluded:
It is common ground that 1 was bashed
by somebody. It is also common ground
that there are now only two alternative
explanations of that bashing—at the hands
of the police at Darlinghurst on the
Thursday evening, or at the hands of that
tuberculosis-sufferer, Leonard, on the
previous Monday night, which is the police
version. If that version cannot be made
to fit the known facts except at the expense
of commonsense, I submit that your
Honor must find, in spite of aU the sug-
gestions to the contrary, that I have been
telling the truth....
On Friday, Shand, Q.C., representing
Inspector Aldridge, and Mr. K. J. Hol-
land, representing the other officers in-
volved, presented a joint reply to the
Poole-Ruxton address, and the hearing
ended, after the commissioner had said
of the address;
Much of it is padding and a lot of it is
based on false premises, but there are
other matters of argument which are fairly
put on the evidence, and they will receive
my serious attention.
Final date for the commissioner’s
report to the Executive Council is July 31.
The Petrov Inquiry
Gist of the evidence:
The renewed sittings of the Petrov Commis-
sion in Melbourne opened with a sensation
when Mr. Windeyer claimed that “Docu-
ment J,” mentioned at previous hearings
as a “farrago of facts, falsity and
filth” written about Australians in the
sanctuary of the Russian Embassy by an Aus-
tralian, had been the work of Rupert Lock-
wood, a well-known pamphleteer of the Com-
munist party. Later Mr. E. F. Hill, secretary
of the Victorian branch of the Communist
party, a Melbourne barrister and solicitor,
sought leave to appear for Lockwood, but was
refused permission to see at this stage docu-
ments banned from publication by the com-
mission. Windeyer, Q.C., said that there was
a great deal of matter directly relevant to
the inquiry in Document J “quite outside the
purely scurrilous and filthy statements in it.”
Petrov’s evidence mainly concerned his career
and the organisation of the Russian spy system
in general and in Australia. He mentioned a
section which dealt with sailors travelling to
foreign countries and thein relationships with
foreigners. If sailors became too friendly
with foreigners, as was the case with Captain
Draekin of the Dmitrov Donskoy, which visited
Australia in 1950, they were sent to small river-
steamers or barges inside Russia and never
allowed to go abroad again.
On his second day in the box he dealt with
Soviet espionage in Australia. He said that one
of his functions had been to plant agents
among those emigrating from Europe to Aus-
tralia; that Russia has a special branch for
training saboteurs to act abroad, one of their
duties being to kill leaders of anti-Soviet
organisations in foreign countries. He said that
the chief agent of the Soviet Intelligence Service
had a secret room in the Russian Embassy
in Canberra; that the Tass Agency men in Aus-
tralia were connected officially with the spy
network, and one of their tasks was to repre-
sent themselves as ordinary journalists to other
journalists and find out information that might
be useful to Russia. He said Tass was con-
trolled by the Council of Ministers, latterly
headed by Molotov in person.
Petrov, who arrived in Australia in February,
1951, swore that his duty was to watch every-
body in the Soviet Embassy except the Ambas-
sador, to obtain information about anti-Soviet
organisations in Australia, to work
among anti-Soviet immigrants, to recruit
agents from whom information might
be obtained and who would be liable
to change their views and become workers
for the Soviet Union. Mrs. Petrov was a sec-
retary and accountant to the Embassy, but, as
well, had duties as a cipher-clerk in his depart-
ment. In 1952 he became chief resident in
Canberra in the espionage departments and
took over the belongings of the department,
and his wife had the key of the safe and
attended to ciphering duties.
He said that in the course of his duties he
paid moijey out of Embassy funds to Aus-
tralians—in one case £5O0 —to help them visit
Russia; that an illegal organisation was planned
under his direction to function in case of war;
that a complex method of communication was
established between Moscow and Canberra, and
that two Soviet military intelligence-officers,
who were attached to the Embassy, had
travelled Australia extensively compiling infor-
mation of military use.
He was subjected to intensive questioning by
the chairman of the commission, Mr. Justice
Owen, on his< inquiries about Australians who
might be used to obtain information —admitting
that he had been “particularly interested in the
External Affairs Department, Government
circles in general, and business and economic
circles,” and that in process of finding agents
he directed his inquiries to discover a man’s
weaknesses, whether he was in need of money,
his family circumstances, his religious beliefs,
whether he had any extramarital associations,
whether he drank or was talkative in drink,
and whether he was a Government employee
or had access to Government information.
He said that some persons who gave infor-
mation were paid for it, and that, on several
occasions, Russia had obtained matter which
the Australian Government regarded as secret
or confidential, but that in the last two or
three years his department had found it diffi-
cult, if not impossible, to get information of
this nature because the Australian security
system had become very efficient and former
informants had become frightened. He had
been severely reproved I 'by Moscow because he
had failed to obtain information.
More Union-squeeze
Mr. Holt’s proposal to emphasise to the
Arbitration Court the importance of
adequate margins for skilled tradesmen
should have awakened the cheering
capacity of every decent Australian, but
it didn’t.
The Federated Ironworkers promptly
accused Mr. Holt of “running an iron-
curtain between the tradesmen and non-
tradesmen.” Railway boilermakers have
banned overtime because the department
has refused to increase margins by 100
per cent. —a measure which could not be
extended to the boilermakers without
laying the foundations for claims to the
same advances in every other branch of
the railway services.
The Ironworkers are not to be
deterred in their fight for margins for all
—which, as Mr. Holt points out, would
amount to a general rise in the basic
wage in disguise. And they deliberately
threaten that “major industrial upheavals
could result” if the court refuses to recog-
nise their claim when it meets in Novem-
ber or before. That attitude is no better
than that exhibited of yore by Thornton
and McPhillips, and is on a par with the
attitude of the Watersiders, the Boiler-
makers and the Building Industrial
Workers, Red unions whose working
results and co-operation with employers
fall short “of reasonable achievement”
and “have so important a bearing on the
living standards of the whole com-
munity.”
The A.C.T.U., according to Mr. Monk,
its expensively-travelled boss, will adhere
to its intention to ask for margins for
all, but it will offer a sop in the banning
of “overtime strikes, rolling strikes, go-
slow and other forms of irritation tactics.”
It will warn Communist-controlled
unions that if they do not abandon these
methods the A.C.T.U. will deal with
them. But expediency seems to be the
A.C.T.U.’s other name; and, in any case,
a ban imposed by it will only get a laugh
from offenders.
The greedier and more disruptive- sec-
tion of unionism is prepared to back the
A.C.T.U. only so long as it does what it
is told. If it begins really to thwart
extremist policies and to exhibit some
independence there will be a change of
front towards the body which the Com-
munist party boasted in the 1920’s that it
had formed to be the co-ordinating body
of the Red International in Australia.
Arthur Greenwood
From London: With the death of Arthur
Greenwood, the Labor party has lost a
cornerstone as vital in its way as Ernest
Bevin. As a politician he fell short of
the highest, and as a man he was not
without human failings. But he was sin-
cere, integral and likeable and, most im-
portant from the party’s point of view,
acceptable to all. Although unwell and
rather doddery, he remained the Labor
party’s treasurer to the end. The device
of setting Herbert Morrison as a can-
didate against him last year failed miser-
ably, very much to Morrison’s detriment,
because of the affection in which the
masses held Greenwood.
This office of treasurer is something
of a sinecure, but it carries an ex-officio
seat on the National Executive Com-
mittee, and on that account is highly
prized. Mr. Gaitskell is a near-certainty
for nomination, and will command
powerful trade-union support. At pre-
sent he is leader of the “also-rans” in
the constituencies’ poll. (Of the seven
seats allotted, six are held by Bevanites.)
This leg-up is held to mark him out as
future leader of the party.
It presents an immediate challenge to
Mr, Sevan (who likes him not at all—
a feeling that is fully reciprocal). To be
elected treasurer would put Nye in a
strong position. If he chooses to oppose
Gaitskell he will not be able to stand
for the constituencies’ seat where he in-
variably tops the poll. But if he fails to
become treasurer he will have fallen be-
tween the two stools and be off the
Executive Committee for a full year.
A Model Family
An Australian family for whom time
has virtually stood still for the past seven
years are the William I. Browns; of 39
Forrest Road, Westbourne. On June 30,
1947, their affairs were the subject of
discussion in almost every household in
Australia. Brown himself was apparently
what is known as a completed house-
holder ; at any rate, intimate particulars
of his family life were shown on the
census-schedule for 1947 under the head-
ing ‘Example of a Completed House-
holder’s Schedule.”
The Browns were an interesting family.
William J. (aged 45), who described him-
self as the head and gave his occupation
as shop-assistant in the retail-grocery
trade, had obviously moved around a bit
when younger. Victorian-born, he had an
American wife, Alice L. (43), to whom he
had been married 23 years. One assumes
they were married in U.S.A. and crossed
soon afterwards to England; their eldest
son, Henry W. (aged 22), was born in the
Old Dart. A couple of years later they
returned to Australia —Alice and Henry
had both been 20 years resident in Aus-
tralia in 1947 —and Alice became natur-
alised. Annie L. (19) and George I. (14),
the younger children, were both born in
Victoria. Also living with the family was
William’s brother, John D., a widower
of 40. John was born in Tasmania and
was a bricklayer, but unfortunately at
the time of the census he had been out
of work for four weeks, a fact made more
serious by the knowledge that he had
two motherless dependants.
The seventh member of the house-
hold was Mary Jones, who, despite her
Welsh name and Methodist religion—the
Browns, by the way, were Church of
England—was bom in Scotland. Mary
worked for the family as a domestic ser-
vant. She had been in Australia only five
years, which meant she had left Scot-
land in 1942. What the Scottish woman-
power authorities were doing to let an
able-bodied lassie of 22 emigrate at the
height of the blitz was rather a puzzle, as
was William J.’s ability to run to a domes-
tic servant on a shop-assistant’s pay—
until it was realised that Henry W.
(motor-mechanic) and Annie L. (typist
in an insurance company) were both
earning good money, and that Uncle John
(when in a job) was probably slinging in
a few bob, too.
The Browns were living in a six-
roomed brick cottage in 1947, for which
they paid 325. 6d. rent. The rent was
reasonable enough, but it should be men-
tioned that, although the house had elec-
tric light, there was no gas—and cooking
C< Continued on next page)


was done on a wood-stove —and
although the running-water served bath-
room and laundry, William J. had to
admit that his home had no flush-toilet.
As to sleeping arrangements, one mem-
ber of the household slept out, but no
details were given. Perhaps it was Uncle
John; perhaps Mary Jones; perhaps
schoolboy George. The age of the house
was not disclosed, but William J. was
definite that it had been built before the
1933 census.
Last Wednesday Australia once more
peeped into the private affairs of the
Browns. They’re still at the same address
and don’t seem to be a day older.
William J. is still certifying that he is
45 and Alice 43 ; Alice has still been
living in this country for 20 years, and
so has English-born son Henry, the
motor - mechanic. Nineteen - year - old
Annie L. is still tapping the typewriter
for the insurance company, and young
George is still at school. Even Uncle
John hasn’t changed; he is still out-of-
work, and still claiming that he has only
been unemployed for four weeks. Perhaps
he makes a habit of it at this time of the
year. Mary Jones, still a staunch Metho-
dist in a stronghold of Anglicanism, still
does the household chores, and swears
it’s only five years since she left Scotland.
There are, however, one or two slight
changes. No one sleeps out any more.
Perhaps Mary dosses in the kitchen, to
be handy to that wood-stove, or perhaps
Uncle John has fixed himself a bunk in
the bath. There’s a peculiar change, too,
in the age of the house. Although it
appears to be the same old dwelling,
William J. now avers that it was built
in 1951. This is obviously incorrect,
but there must be some explanation. A
possible clue is contained in the fact
that there is no longer any mention of
the absence of a flush-toilet. Can it be
that this amenity was added in 1951 and
that William J. regards its advent as com-
pleting the construction of the house?
It seems most likely, particularly as it
could also account for the Fair Rents
Court granting an increase in the weekly
rent to £2 10s., the current rate.
It is to be hoped William J. is telling
the truth. If not, he deserves he maxi-
mum penalty. After all, he has allowed
himself to be held up as an example to
millions of his countrymen. If he can’t
be trusted then the census is of no value
at all.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies promised tax-reductions in his
policy-speech, but Fadden’s £56-million
surplus makes them certain. For the next
month professional and amateur financiers
will be busily engaged in guessing what
form the cuts will take.
« •
At the Premiers’ Conference four
States, N. S. Wales, Victoria, Queensland
and South Australia, expressed themselves
willing to resume responsibility for col-
lecting taxes; Westralia and Tasmania
said they weren’t, though Westralian
Premier Hawke said his State might
change its mind if oil was found in suffi-
cient quantities in W.A. Perhaps Tas-
mania might have a similar change of
heart if its new lottery should strike oil.
• ©
Election-season being now over, good
Socialists in the Socialist-“ Labor” party
are now permitted to mention the party’s
objective. Cal well, at the opening of the
new headquarters of the A.C.T.U. in
Melbourne, proclaimed his faith in
socialisation with a boldness that was not
apparent in his speeches and those of
other “Labor” leaders during the months
of April and May. He was supported by
A.C.T.U. president Monk, who said “That
objective still stands and we will stand
for it.” The snag from “Labor’s” point
of view is that the Australian people
have shown that they won’t stand for it.
• •
Despite the attractiveness of the new
A.C.T.U. headquarters, Albert Monk will
still have his headquarters in Geneva or
on the plane flying to or returning from
Geneva.
W W
Government transport in New South
Wales is still on the up-and-up. At least,
Transport Minister Wetherell, contem-
plating another staggering annual loss
on trams and buses, is threatening to give
the fares another kick.
© ©
Brotherly relations among N. S. Wales
Liberals appear to be strained, which is
not surprising after 13 years in the
wilderness. Rumblings against Vernon
Treatt’s leadership are nothing new, but
the resignation of W. A. Howarth from
the deputy-leadership must bring things
to a head. At the weekend a section of
the party was canvassing the possibility
of bringing-up the question of leadership
at yesterday’s party-meeting, and kites
were being flown on behalf of half a
dozen members —with or without their
permission.
One thing is certain. If the Liberals
want a new leader —and they most
certainly need one —they should hurry up
and make up their minds. The next
election is 18 months away, but that is
little enough time for old wounds to heal
and for a team-spirit capable of winning
an election to be developed.
• •
Despite doleful estimates a year ago
Cahill also finished-up the year with a
surplus, due mainly to improvements in
railway earnings. The trains were
£155,000 ahead of schedule and Maritime
Services also got out of the red to the
extent of £75,000. Trams and buses per-
formed as badly as had been expected;
their loss was £3,100,000. Final figure for
the State’s account, £50,000 surplus.
• •
New rates for petrol-tax payments to
the States came into force on July 1.
The old rates were 6d. a gallon on im-
ported fuel and 3|d. a gallon on locally-
refined. This distinction has now been
removed and a flat rate of 7d. a gallon
will be paid on all petrol irrespective of
its place of origin. When Parliament
meets the Government will amend the
law to ensure that at least 40 per cent,
of the proceeds is spent on rural roads,
instead of 35 per cent, as at present.
• •
Ernie O’Dea, who always seems to be
in the position of knowing the Cahill
Government’s policy before Cahill knows
it himself, informed the Sydney County
Council that one-brand petrol-stations
would soon be ended by law. This
prompted a letter to the “S, M. Herald”
from a reader who signed himself
“Innocent” and presumed that a bill
would also be introduced to put an end
to one-brand pubs.
• •
An amazing sidelight on the extent
to which ordinary travel-routes were
disorganised during Hitler’s war was
provided by the disclosure that a ship
on which Petrov and his wife were
travelling was torpedoed off the coast
of East Africa in 1943 while they were
on their way from Moscow to Stockholm.
An attenlpt to get to Sweden via
Archangel having failed, they were sent
by way of Tehran, Cairo, Cape Town
and London, The torpedoing added,
after two days in an open boat and a
rescue by a British destroyer, additional
staging-halts at Durban and Pretoria,
and the final hop was made by plane
from Aberdeen to Stockholm.
• •
Although Cahill intends to legislate
for a minimum deposit of 10 per cent. —■
possibly higher—on hire-purchase agree-
ments he is trying to press the
Federal Government to agree to 5 per
cent, deposits for the sale of Housing
Commission homes, at the same time
fixing an interest-rate of 3 per cent,
instead of per cent. Originally his
Government didn’t want to sell the homes
at all, being committed to the idea of
becoming the people’s universal land-
THE NOT-SO-SECRET SOUND
lord. Now he wants to put his tenants
in a privileged position relative to all
other classes of home-buyers.
His argument for the low interest-rate
is that Housing Commission rents are
based on 3 per cent., and it won’t pay
tenants to buy the houses. If this is a
fact it means that other householders are
subsidising the rents of Cahill’s tenants.
It seems to be more an argument for
increasing his rents than for suggesting
that the community should subsidise the
purchase of the homes.
Last year, according to Senator
Spooner, 76,000 homes were built in
Australia, of which only 11,000 were
built by Government agencies. The
rest, whether built for rental or for
owner-occupation, must have been
financed at current rates of interest.
• •
There are more ways than one of
getting a “margin.” Sydney politicians
are making sure of theirs by voting
themselves £lOO a year “travelling
allowance.” Their gold-passes already
entitle them to free travel on Government
trains, trams and buses, and those with
country addresses are permitted to claim
£5O a year, provided they can produce
vouchers to show the expense has been
incurred. The new allowance is a
straightout payment, to be made
monthly without any strings at all. I
addition, members’ stamp allowance i
to be increased from £4 7s. 6d. to £8 a
month, and the Treasury is to pay three-
quarters of their phone-rental. That s
what the announcement said —“Treasury
sounds less brutal than “taxpayer.
• •
“News Review,” official paper pf the
A.L.P. in Sydney, complains: “Many
People Don’t Know Labor Policy.
That’s not surprising. In the Federal-
election campaign even the leaders of
the party didn’t seem to know it.
• •
Shand, Q.C., representing the police at
the Studley-Ruxton commission, pays a
tribute:
Finally, we wish to pay a tribute to the
complete impartiality of the “Daily Tele-
graph” in setting forth in this morning s
issue a verbatim report on the address or
Poole and appreciate that it was only lack
of space which prevented them from follow-
ing the same course with the addresses of
other counsel.
• •
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Pat Hills looked
a certainty for the “Labor” nomination
for the Phillip vacancy in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, but the executive must be
doing a bit of pondering since his
announcement that if elected he will
continue as Lord Mayor for the rest of
his three-year term, which began only
last December. Members have been lay-
ing great stress on the increasing burdens
laid upon Parliamentary representatives ;
the justification for their last pay-lift was
that being an M.L.A. is a full-time job.
Hills apparently considers he can do the
job sufficiently conscientiously to pocket
the £1975 a year withaht a qualm, and at
the same time carry out the responsibilities
of the £5OOO-a-year Lord-Mayoral post.
If the A.L.P. boys accept him on those
terms they’ll be either admitting that he’s
a superman or that the rest of the
M.L.A.S are grossly overpaid.
• •
Meat went “off the ration” in Britain
at midnight on Saturday after 14 years
of tickets. It was the last commodity
thus controlled. Britain’s food is now
once again ration-free.
• •
As a reprisal against the Conservative
U.K. Government’s refusal to assent to
a £5OO rise for MJP.s the Labor Opposi-
tion will refuse to grant any “pairs” to
Government members. Presumably this
won’t take effect until Attlee and other
absentees return from their visit to
Peking.
• •
“Mugga Way”: A feature of the
Legislative Council election in Papua and
New Guinea on October 2 will be an
extension of time for its various phases,
with the object of making it possible for
all residents of the Territory to enrol and
vote. The rolls will close on August 2,
and nominations a week later, but seven
weeks will then elapse in which electors
may apply for and lodge postal votes.
The election is for three members of the
Council.
• •
No scheme of priorities came out of
the Loan Council or Premiers’ Con-
ference. Has the Federal Government
dropped the idea without even putting it
up to the Premiers? The pre-conference
objections of Cahill and Cain don’t seem
a strong enough reason against at least
throwing the idea on to the council-table.
• •
Work on the Tully Falls hydroelec-
tric scheme in North Queensland reached
the end of an important stage last week
when the tunnelling parties which had
been working towards each other for
two years met in the middle of their
3000 ft. underground burrow. But there’s
a lot of work ahead yet before the job
is complete.
• •
The Graziers’ Association of N. S.
Wales is supporting claims for higher
salaries for scientific and technical
officers of the C.5.1.R.0. That’s only
fair. Myxomatosis and trace-element
research —to name only two fields of
C.5.1.R.0. activity—have been worth
millions to the grazing industry.
• •
The leaders of the British Labor party
have begun an official campaign to con-
vince their rank-and-file of the necessity
for supporting the inclusion of Germany
in plans for Western defence. Attlee,
Morrison and Gaitskell have all made
speeches on this theme, pointing out that
Russia has already armed East Germany
and that to oppose the rearmament of
West Germany “will only feed the fires
of German nationalism and militarism.”
Their campaign is necessary to combat
the influence of Aneurin Bevan, who has
played upon the traditional fear of Ger-
man militarism. Official Labor now rea-
lises that it is impossible to keep Ger-
many disarmed for ever and that it is
better to accept this fact and capitalise
it in the interests of European defence
than to force it into antagonistic national
channels.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
■pvENILIQUIN (N.S.W.) “Pastoral
Times,” announcing the transfer of a
’Wales man from that town to Ivanhoe
(Vic.): “Mr. H. Keith L. Flynn, man-
ager of the Bang of New the past three
years ” Hope they gave him a bang-
up party for a send-off. Or maybe they’d
done so.—“ Fons.”
* ❖ ❖
“Censor”: Doubt if this latest census
will unearth a name to better one the
1947 census brought to light. With em-
phatic finality the last-born of one
family was named Enough.
€< *Z• •>
“Miss Alma”: We had always, me
two of us, regarded ourselves as rather
monotonously respectable; till, in Lon-
don, we scuttled home in the early hours
from a party, perforce per foot. Round-
ing a turn we sighted a couple of well-
worn followers of the most worn of
careers, standing hopefully on the corner,
though business obviously was slack. . As
we approached, one lady glanced up,
turned and said disgustedly to her com-
panion: “Hell! A couple more!” ,
•£♦ *X 4 *>
“Mugga Way”; Not long before their
rather hurried departure one of the top
borzois of the Soviet Embassy, piling
masses of propaganda-pamphlets into my
arms, asked if I’d care to read an Eng-
lish translation of one of the best modern
Russian novels ; thus I came to read The
Story of a Real Man. It told of a heroic
Red aviator during the last war. The hero
was handsome and unfalteringly brave.
His companions were high-spirited dare-
devils. The girls were all beautiful, affec-
tionate, and chaste (in the one daring
passage the hero and a Red aviatrix spent
a night in the same room —on separate
couches). When I took it back and told
him frankly what I thought of it —that it
would be all right for kids, but I couldn’t
imagine any adult enjoying it —he looked
at me sadly for a few moments, then
stiffly assured me the book was most
highly esteemed and loved by all Rus-
sians, who thought it was a wonderful
piece of work. There should be a for-
tune in a Russian translation of ?
“Jock”: If dour Caledonians and
Fenian Irishmen are spinning in their
graves, it’s too bad an’ all an’ all the
noo. At Chatswood (Sydney), the elders
of the Presbyterian kirk are allowing the
Christian Brothers, from next-door, to
use the Presbyterian church-hall each
school-day. Because of a building-pro-
gramme, the Brothers are temporarily
short of class-accommodation.
“ Engine-driver be blowed! I intend to dabble in nuclear physics .”
/‘Alma”: Apart from our learning to
say “Here’s luck” in a variety of
languages, the cobber I travelled with
had a fondness for cats, and we came
home knowing how to call “Puss, puss”
in many tongues. For the cats of Venice
(and their numbers are legion) the code-
call is “Moosh, moosh,” though I have
yet to find the English tongue that can
give it the same caressing softness as the
Italian. Parisian four-footed felines come
to “Minoo, min-oo,” Austrian and Ger-
man moggies answer to “Mitz, mitz,” and
“Hallo, is that the matrimonial agency ?”
in Scandinavia it is “Pooss, pooss.” But
a word of warning—“Pooss, pooss”
directed at a pretty girl has the same
effect as a wolf-whistle.
“Balwyn”; Victoria’s Eildon, going
under the auctioneer’s hammer, will not
be the first town in Australia that that
has happened to, Fernshawe, near Heal.es-
ville (also in Victoria), was sold in 1890
to make way for Maroondah Weir. The
most Gilbertian act in that historic drama
was the auctioneer’s brave attempt to
sell the post-office at a respectable price.
Bidding started at five-bob. After vainly
trying to persuade his audience that an
accumulation of cash dropped through
the floor-boards over the years awaited
the lucky buyer, he had to knock the
decrepit P.O. down for a pound-note.
The whole settlement went at £150. To-
day’s model-town at Eildon is valued at
£1\ million ; British manufacturing firms
are interested.
*
' “Muskeen”: Apart from her histrionic
ability, I maintain that the Garbo (B.
23/6/’54) owes a fair proportion of her
evergreen charm to her long hair. Go
into any gathering of present-day glamor-
pusses with their skinned-rabbit hair-
do’s, and if there is one among them
with angora locks she will take your eye,
and hold it.
♦> ❖ ❖
“K.R.”: One or two of the Fijian
Rugby Union footballers had what
were apparently several-syllabled
names, yet the phonetic pronun-
ciation, as given, rendered them
much shorter: e.g., Biumaiwai (Biu),
Sivaniola (Seeva). But all the other
equally long names were pronounced in
full. Why, then, the few syllable-omis-
sions? It surely couldn’t be traceable to
the same affectation which, in our names,
was responsible for the dropping of the
“Col” of Colquhoun, the mangling of
the middle syllables in Marjoribanks and
Cholmondeley, and the excision of the
exclamatory tailpiece of Featherstone-
haugh?
*** * ❖
“Medic”: She came into Casualty,
sufficiently conscious to tell us that the
dark-brown staining the blood emanated
from the weapon which had cracked her
on the head —a beer-bottle. Later, to the
routine question of how it happened, she
explained: “I was having an argument
with a gentleman friend.”
♦> *x* ♦>
“O.R.”: “Gee Dee,” in objecting to the
use of “bar sinister” (B. 23/6/’54), is,
of course, strictly right; heraldry per-
mitting the terms “bend” (or “baton”)
sinister (or dexter). But heraldry itself
is archaic, and only the pedant is much
concerned, Fowler, indeed, says of this
same phrase that “it is so familiar that to
correct it, except where there is a real
need for technical accuracy, is pedantic.”
Later, in his brief essay on didacticism,
he says, “our learned persons and posses-
sors of special information should not,
when they are writing for the general
public, presume to improve the accepted
vocabulary.” Hesitant about sending
this in—smacks a bit of didacticism.
$ $
Census Collector
WHEN I was offered the job of census-
collector at £3 5s. a day —papers
to be handed out and collected a few
days later —the proposition sounded
pretty good. In my innocence I imagined
that things would go something like
this: Arrive at house. Ring bell. Door
promptly opens and sweet young thing
appears. Paper handed over and, after
a few pleasant remarks, I depart. Time,
three minutes per house . . . Yeah!
This is how the first one worked out:
Arrived at house. Notice on gate;
“Savage dog—enter at own risk,” Medi-
tate for three minutes, then enter, leav-
ing gate ripen in case of hurried retreat.
No sign of dog. Ring bell. Nothing
happens—bell doesn’t work. Neighbor
watching, calls out, “She’s round the back
and the dorg don’t bite.” Ask whether
neighbor would kindly leave the form
for me. Says, “No —we ain’t speakin’.”
Go round the back. Forbidding female
emerges from washhouse accompanied
by bull-terrier and inquires, “What’s all
this bloody nonsense?” Explain and
hand over form, which is grasped by
hands wet with soap-suds. Says the for-
bidding one, drawing heavily on a fag;
“I’ve worked ’ard all me life and paid for
this ’ere ’ouse. It’s mine and I’m
tellin’ no Guvment ’ow many rooms is
in it —or nothin’ else.” Not wishing to
debate these interesting points, I head
for the gate, beating the now barking
dog to it by 2yds. Collect bike and find
that some young democrat has put a pin
in front tyre. Repair puncture. Time
taken for one dwelling, about 30 minutes.
Of course they weren’t all like that.
Some were rabbit-warrens, with citizens
tucked away in rented sleep-outs, flats,
caravans in yards, huts, tents in the gar-
den and even old stable-lofts. All “dwell-
ings” within the meaning of the Dog and
Goat Act, and each due for a schedule.
That is if, after about four visits, you
can run the occupants to earth. Most
were “not at home.” As for gate-fasten-
ings, never quote the cocky’s front-gate'
to me again. Every conceivable contrap-
tion —string, wire, even the leg off a
pair of bloomers. Rusted bolts that would
not give, and some nailed-up. The Aus-
tralian, apparently, does not use his front-
gate.
Don’t tell me the Federal Government
wastes the taxpayers’ money. After try-
ing to do my district in the time allotted,
I’m satisfied a Tandy couldn’t do it.
Ceg.
CENSUS
Shut up, please, and let me think !
Who’s got the pen, and where’s the ink ?
What sort of writer’s home is this! —
“State what kind the dwelling is:
House, room, institution, shed, hut, tent.
Hotel, boarding-house, apartment, tene-
ment” —
Hut, eh ? Now stop fooling. I’ve had
enough of that.
Here’s the one I missed ; it’s a “self-con-
tained fiat.”
A self-contained flat — that’s the way to
begin it;
I wish I could say the same about the
people in it. ...
Brick outer walls .. . Number of rooms, 4,
Counting the midget-kitchen that hasn’t
got a door
Am I owner, tenant, caretaker — what’s
the rent,
Providing the agent gets here before it’s
spent ?....
They ask have we got gas, electricity,
kitchen, bathroom, and even
Was the building put up before the year
1947,
And is it on a rural holding of an acre
or mo’ ?
The answers are “Yes, yes, yes, yes and
no, no!” —
Sounds like a girl telling her sweetie-pie
how far he can go —
Now here’s a matter I’ve often meant to
take up with you, spouse:
Am I, or am I not, the head of this
house ?
Then there’s the question, my love, of
disclosing your age,
A matter I hardly care to go into at this
stage.
But when were the kids born ? It’s some-
thing I
Always forget because I’m always won-
dering why ....
Likewise, when were we married ?....
All that time ? No use getting
grumpy ;
We made our bed and we’ve got to lie
on it though it’s getting lumpy ....
I suppose you’d say the kids were Euro-
pean ; though, especially at tea,
I often think they might be directly
descended from some African
chimpanzee ....
And now there’s only my occupation to
confess
And the old story of the employers’ name
and address.
And that’s all the Government wants to
know about us for the census,
But, my God, the things we could tell
them only good-breeding prevents
us !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A SPORT that has declined among
Sydney suburban kids —increase in
motor-traffic has made it suicidal —is
hopping off trams.
It was a fine art, learned the hard way
by trial-and-error. A boy was con-
sidered a pansy if he couldn’t cleanly join
or alight from a tram, lurching and
swaying at top speed, midway between
stops.
One of the refinements was to bait
the troub. with grimaces to the point
where he’d rush down the footboard to
where you were precariously perched on
the last two inches, withholding your
grinning departure till he had drawn back
his boot.
My own career suffered one serious
setback. One rainy morning Fatty
Atkinson and I were wending our way to
school at the Government’s expense
when, rounding the last bend, Fatty
hopped off, his boot slipped in the mud
and his leg went under. The driver heard
the scream and applied the brakes, but
Fatty’s leg was a gory mess. I waited
on the outskirts till the ambulance took
him away, then went on to school, feel-
ing awfully sick, but bursting to tell the
teacher. He sent me to the Boss. What
a brilliant barrister was lost when that
old cow took on teaching! For his cross-
examination soon had the truth out, and
I copped a sixer.
So great was the shock I got at seeing
Fatty go under —they managed to save
his leg—that it was fully three days
before I was hopping on ’em again.
80.
gi
“Earole”: My Melbourne paper re-
ports the projected formation of a lobo-
tologists’ union. We have fruitologists,
lubritoriums. Penguin-bars so lobo-
tologists seems fair enough for an ear-
piercer. ’Ear, ’ear, I hear? But it trans-
pires that the only people legally author-
ised to pierce the human epidermis are
doctors and dentists. However, fashion
will surmount the obstacle. Drop-ear-
rings are the thing nowadays, and lobes
must be lobotised somehow.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metralia”: The balloon-load of fruit-
flies sent up by Sydney University’s Dr.
Hertz, from the somewhat Kinseyan mo-
tive of seeing how cosmic-rays affected
their breeding-habits (B. 9/6/’54), gave
him the slip good and properly. While
the doctor gallivanted about
in a helicopter, combing
Sydney’s outer suburbs with
a radar-set, the flies pulled
off an aeronautical coup by
bustling off to Queensland,
where, I was happy to hear,
they made a safe landing.
Am convinced it was really a
cargo of bar-flies, more in-
terested in Queensland’s 10-
o’clock closing than in
I’amour in the stratosphere.
❖ ❖
“Parram”: There’s real
old Prussian starch about
the A.B.C.’s programme-
schedules. Lids are slammed
on pianists’ fingers, sopranos
are throttled in mid-
arpeggio. , Recently Isaac
Stern (imported at enormous
expense), nearing his
climactic phrases, was
snipped off. Then, with
not even an apologetic creak from its
inflexible whalebone corsets, the A.B.C.
bustied-on. Bustled-on to what? A quar-
ter-hour of gramophone records! I note
anew symptom about this old sore-
spot: decapitation occurs to those con-
certs for which the A.B.C. wants us to
buy tickets; not to those which are
already crammed with subscribers.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Harbel”: A man who could give the
answer as to why one of “Q. Ree’s” men-
tally anguished women wrote her last
message in English (B. 23/6/’54) was a
teacher of English whose uphill job it
was to polish the diction of us potential
trade-teachers in the then newly formed
Commonwealth Reconstruction Training
Scheme. “The English language is the
most expressive language in the world,”
he declared. “I was not born to it, yet
I can express myself more fluently in
English than in my native country.” A
New Australian couple assure me that they
unconsciously drop back into English to
clarify difficult descriptions. And this I
do know: the New Aussie may revert
to his “sacramentoes,” etc., when he does
his block, but none of ’em seems to sooth
his soul like the time-honored Old Aussie
twins, even if the effort does sound like
“buddadabarsa.”
“Batsman”: See where the Yank Navy
reports that within three months 37
pilots landed without remembering to
lower their undercarriages. Suggest two
alternatives to reduce the accident-rate:
(1) Carry out that brilliant and highly-
complex method employed by British
and Australian Navies, whereby pilots
first fly past the bridge so that the ship
can check that wheels and arrester-hook
are down; (2) turn ’em over to the
plumbing branch.
❖ ❖ ❖
“O’Johnno”: A century-old secret has
been revealed at St. John’s Church,
Canberra. Laid 113 years ago, when
the church was consecrated, the old
foundation-stone could never be
“Would it still function with a pedestrian stuck in it ?”
located later. It had had an inscribed
metal plate attached, which suggested
that a mine-detector might do the job.
Recently church officers, with Padre
Griffith, watched Private Keel, of Dun-
troon, set the apparatus to work. It re-
acted to a stone about 2ft. 6in. from the
ground on a buttress near an old walled-
up entrance on the north side of the
church. Report of this experiment has
“I simply adore strong , silent men.”
inspired another church —St. Jude’s at
Eldorado, near Melbourne —to use a
detector to discover its stone, laid in 1870.
A box was placed under the stone at the
time; if it holds any metal it’s likely the
scheme will succeed.
❖ ❖
“Back Bar”: Melbourne’s old land-
marks are falling fast. Latest to hoist
the sold-sign is Richardson’s Hotel in
Bourke-street, first of the chain which
made a millionaire out of a pauper. In
its bar in former days (beer and ham for
3d. and closing-time 11.30 p.m.) a bell
would be rung to inform clients that the
next act was beginning at the King’s
Theatre over the way. The gaslight
brackets of the ’nineties still adorn the
walls. James Richardson lived there many
years and made it his business head-
quarters.
* * ❖
“Spoke”: A boy of eight was asked
at dinner the other day what five and
three made ; he didn’t know. His brother,
three, piped up “Eight,” and everybody
looked at him as if a mathematical
genius had suddenly arisen in their midst.
But “eight” was the only figure he knew.
Still, they’ve got a potential winner of
quiz contests.
♦♦♦
“Smithy”: Curiosity drew me to the
Hobart waterfront to see that ship with-
out a home-port, which “E. & 0.E.” (B.
23/6/’54) aptly described as “a floating
U.N.O. —except that she works.” The
ship and complement might; but as I
saw her unloading: a wharfie leaned on
the rail and raised his arm, a movement
which conjured a large crate from the
hold. He watched it swing towards the
wharf, when another arm-movement
stopped it about 2ft. off. Another
wharfie, complete with hat, scarf and
overcoat, came out of somewhere and
gave the case a push, causing it to swing,
then retired. Up-top managed to get
his arm up again and the crate came
down with a wallop (I liked this as
the wordage on the crate read “Fragile );
two husky blokes then emerged from the
throng around the crate and managed
between them to unhook the sling. The
final act came from a very active person
on a fork-truck, who carted the crate
from view. I was there for over half-an-
hour and saw this very impressive cere-
mony no less than three times.
* ❖ *
“C.W.J.”: Thanks to the currently-
booming “science” of graphology a friend
of mine, who has acquired nothing since
birth except legal necessities like trousers,
has learned, per a sample of his hand-
writing, that he has a palpable penchant
for philately. 1 remember a ballpoint pen
advertised as first-class for underwater
calligraphy. I’ve not yet had occasion to
call on this intriguing quality. Suppose I
did, would my handwriting still reveal
the noble, kindly, ambitious, intelligent,
industrious soul that, per the same
medium, I am now assured I am?
♦Jt
“Kellick”: Some time since ! heard a
warrant read on the quarterdeck, but
I’ll bet they still have their occasional
moments. One I recall concerned an A.B.
caught with his girl-friend in the main-
top locker aboard the flagship. It was
Sunday, and when the time came for
visitors to go ashore Jack had piloted his
lady into the locker; detection had not
come until almost “lights-out.” The war-
rant went like this: “In an improper
place at an improper time with an im-
proper person, namely in the maintop
locker at 2145 hours with one female
.... ” It went on to mention 14 days in
the cooler.
* *> ❖
“Macquarie”: Chalk it up where
there’s plenty of room —on their credit-
sheet —that Sydney’s Civic Fathers cer-
tainly handle the water-trough problem
with vision, tact and ingenuity. When a
trough is thought to have become more
of an obstacle to road-users than a bene-
fit, the edict goes forth that it is to be
allowed to go dry. If irate phone-calls
come in, the order is quietly passed to
turn the water on again, and the incident
is closed. But if, after a space of five
or six weeks, there have been no com-
plaints, then a truck is sent out and —
one more link with old Dobbin’s day
goes to the scrap-yard.
❖ ❖
“Emjai”: On the plane from Perth the
lady who missed nothing and demanded
full moppy’s-worth was complaining
loudly of having been let down. “I have
taken very careful note on the return
trip,” she announced, “and it was just
the same as going over. On neither
occasion was there a loud ‘bang when
we broke the sound-barrier.” But, a
seat-sufferer explained, “this plane
•, wouldn’t be breaking any sound-bar-
riers.” “Of course it does,” the aggrieved
one retorted. “What about the place
where we altered our watches?”
ANY BITES?
“Widow m.-a., affectionate nature, well
domesticated, fond fishing, seeks friendship
gent., means, same interest.”— View-mat. ad.
For double-harness life she once again
Has got a yen ;
The solid joys that matrimony yields
She must have tasted ;
Possibly, too, she couldn’t quite dismiss
Some thought like this:
The talents she’d developed in those
fields
Were being wasted.
She knows, none better, how to ply her
man
With scrumptious scran;
His favorite pipe with ’bacco to equip,
His slippers handy;
And, if he likes it {as I do), his thatch
Fondly to scratch.
Such touches keep the hymeneal ship
So trim and dandy.
Oh, many a benedict’s been plagued for
life
Because his strife
Pursued some useless pastime : studying
bees ;
Perhaps bush-walking ;
Dabbling—ye gods!—in local politics.
Teaching pups tricks;
Or, infinitely worse than any of these,
Endlessly talking.
But she has something that holds strong
appeal:
The line-and-reel.
She’ll heave a baited hook till it’s
remote,
And, when she’s angling,
Skull-drag big jewies in with practised
hand
Quite calmly, and
Her line she’ll circle neatly in the boat,
Nothing a-tangling.
Ripe mullet-gut she doesn’t even mind,
Her next will find.
She knows the game. And when that
“fishing” lands
The dame another,
The nylons that he generously buys
Won’t go by size —
A breaking-strain’s the thing that she
demands. . . .
Well, to it, brother!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


You can rely on
EG
‘pressurised’
,I*l.
TAA's five pressurised Convairs have played an important part in TAA’s
unmatched record of service, in less than eight years of operation, TAA’s fast,
dependable airliners have carried over four million passengers safely to their
destination.
?&JAA ~ilx£ iv^Vj
Just phone BO 526 or
PERSONAL ITEMS
The other day in London’s Lambeth
Palace the Rev. Philip Thomas Byard
Clayton—chaplain to the Queen, chap-
lain to the Anglo-Iranian Oil Co., chap-
lain of the Port of London Authority,
M.C. —was invested with a Doctorate of
Divinity. He was born on a station back
of Bundaberg (Q.), 68 years ago; also,
substituting “Tubby” for the other im-
pressive nomenclature, he might be
remembered as having something to do
with Toe H.
• •
Those who expect their professors of
violin to be stooped and venerably silver-
haired will be slightly shocked to know
that the athletic figure and youthful linea-
ments here limned by Dubois belong to
Eugen Prokop, dean of the faculty of the
fiddle at Sydney’s Conservatorium.
Czech-born, his predestination for • a
musical career seemed fixed, with his
father an orchestral conductor and his
mother an operatic singer. He made it
a certainty by pushing aside his toys to
saw at his first small violin, and be
acclaimed a boy-prodigy. Young Prokop
went to the Brussels Conservatoire,
where he won the Flesch Medal; thence
he went concert-giving in London and
FIDDLER
Paris. Goossens snapped him-up for the
Sydney job two years ago, when he was
30.
Prokop inaugurated the weekly pro-
menade concerts at the Art Gallery
which have become a fixed and increas-
ingly-popular feature of Sydney’s cul-
tural life, and for which he has trained a
string orchestra of Con. students to quite
good standard. He’ll take a busman’s
holiday towards the end of the year—
a concert-tour of Europe.
• •
Nevil Shute Norway—he drops the
Norway when authoring best-sellers,
of which he’s produced one or two (a
year)—has been in engineering since he
left Woolwich Military School and
Balliol, Oxford. He was De Havilland’s
chief calculator on construction of Rigid
Airship 100, on two occasions crossed
the Atlantic in it, and subsequently
formed Airspeed, Ltd., aeroplane-con-
structors. When that concern went on
building more and more aeroplanes, and
losing more and more money, he took
to full-time writing. So he knows a bit
of what he claims in his latest book,
Slide Rule, just out; that, in effect. Gov-
ernment officials should be kept at full
maximum range from the engineering
side of military-weapon development.
Reported that his book blames the civil
service for the crash of RlOl in 1930
(Norway was deputy chief-engineer of
the project). Now he burns the midnight
oil at Mt. Eliza, in Victoria, having flown
his Percival Proctor out from England
in 1948.
Turning over command of the Sydney
University Regiment, Lieut.-Col. F. A.
Mackell (prounced Mackle) took it on
three years back. He began his war ser-
vice in W. J. V, (Petrov) Windeyer’s 30th
A.I.F. Brigade, platoon-commander—in
which posting he won M.C. in the savage
desert action which brought a posthumous
V.C. to Corporal Edmondson. Mackell
rose to second-in-command of his bat-
talion, and later gained first-hand know-
ledge of the Russian Army while
attached to a British Occupation Force
unit in Germany. Taking on, Lieut.-Col.
Gordon King, otherwise an architect;
qualifies militarily by, among other
things, immediate award of D.S.O. for a
tidy piece of reprisal with his 2/6 Com-
mando in the Ramu Valley.
• •
At a recent Rotary International con-
vention in Seattle (U.S.A.), Arthur Hart,
of Adelaide, was elected a district-gover-
nor, a position of wide importance in the
movement. The appointment brings 27
Rotary Clubs in Australia under Hart’s
command. He’s been president of Rotar-
ians in his home-suburb of Unley.
• •
“D.R.” on a buckjumping rector:
Canon Warner Shand, rector-extraordinary of
St. Luke’s C. of E., Toowoomba (Q.), confesses
to a professional admiration of The Bulletin’s
Religious Editor; tie also appraises buckjumpers
with a breaker’s eye (he rode Lance Skuthorpe’s
outlaw, Dargon’s Gray, to a standstill half a
century back), quotes Harry Lauder from the
pulpit, and sees sermons in stones; especially
in the sandstone going into the completion of
his 100-year-old Gothic church, where he has
been parish primate for 25 epiphanies.
Born at St. George (W.Q.) in 1888, he joined
Dalgety’s, then sailed close to running away
to sea —the blackbearded skipper of the four-
master he boarded at a Brisbane wharf dissuaded
him with a line-up of the piratical-looking crew.
Young Warner assuaged his wanderlust by going
a-droving instead, becoming an expert horse-
man ; but a surprise toss during muster at
Maryborough injured him so badly that he
took a down-to-earth bank job, which he
abandoned when doctors gave him six months
to live.
Determined to make the most of the time-
limit, he embarked for England, where, at
Tilbury, he was carried off the ship. He sub-
sequently broke out of sick-room with two
walking-sticks and visited Salisbury Cathedral,
where his conversion took place. Hope revived,
he returned to Australia and theological college,
was ordained in 1912 and, illness behind, led
an adventurous priesthood in Northern and
Central Quensland among cyclones and Spanish
influenza, drought and flood; he was once
marooned for a fortnight in a Shand-made
gunyah, subsisting on supplies per flying-fox
rigged across the swollen Cape River. He came
to Toowoomba in 1929, to the church projected
in 1854 by Archdeacon Glennie, who conducted
the first church service on the Darling Downs
at Drayton’s Bull’s Head Inn. In a double
capacity as minister and breaker of Dargon’s
Gray, he was at the bedside when old Lance
Skuthorpe rode into the silence.
• •
’Way back, John Turnbull, a farmer
frae the Midlothians, migrated to Vic-
toria. He did well, and, as a sort of
repayment, created the Turnbull Trust,
object being to forge an intimate link
between Victoria’s Scottish Church and
the mother kirk. Present link in the chain
is the Rev. Murdo Ewen Macdonald,
minister of St. George’s West Church,
Edinburgh. He is to preach at Mel-
bourne’s Scots Church for three months.
• •
Taking up residence in Government
House, Sydney, A.D.C. to Lieutenant-
General Sir John Northcott, Captain Ray-
mond Montague Bentley, earlier the
same to “Red Robbie” in Japan. A
Middle East and Pacific Island soldier,
Bentley relieves Squadron-Leader Russell
Nash. Tomorrow (Thursday) Nash is due
to marry the General’s daughter.
• •
“Macnell”; Navy wardrooms aren’t
exactly holes where you’ll find a hiatus
of conversation; stories are plentiful,
good and varied. But I remember a few
days up in Moresby when we listened —
and asked for more. Jack Johnstone,
currently plodding in 181 b. lead-laced
boots round the slime of Rabaul Harbor
in one of the biggest projects of salvage
history, had been made an honorary
member of the mess. We listened, silent,
as the slight, whipcord, leathery-faced
diver quietly told us yarn after yarn of
the deeps where the dead ships lie, from
Sydney to Calcutta, from the Goodwins
to Florida ; of Niagara and her sunken
millions; of diving in the Hooghli,
brushed now and then by a crocodile-torn
body after the floods; of training divers
in Washington (U.S.) deep-sea school
during the war; of the time, the first in
Australian broadcasting history, the just-
born 3LO sent him down to broadcast
from the bottom of the Yarra; and of
the only real fear he has in his pressured
job—groper! A grand little man, master
of his craft. More shot to his shot-rope
in Rabaul,
• •
There’s been a Hordern mixed-up with
Show business in Sydney since 1915. Sir
Sam held the R.A.S, presidency for 27
years; his son, Sam, holds it now, taking
over from Sir Colin Sinclair. The present
Hordern went from Cambridge to the
Middle East and New Guinea, was elected
to the R.A.S. council just before that,
and for several years has been known
to millions as the big turnout’s ring-
master. President of the N.S.W. branch
of the Australian Equestrian Federation,
he breeds neddies, and cattle, too.
• •
South Australia’s Agricultural chief.
Dr. A. R. Callaghan, gets the Farrer
Memorial Medal for 1954, Elected
Federal president of the Australian Insti-
tute of Agricultural Science in 1949,
Callaghan has done much since 1945 to-
wards opening-up Crown Lands in his
State, as well as settling ex-servicemen ;
he being chairman of both the Crown
Lands Development Committee and the
Land Development Executive. N.S.W.
Rhodes Scholar for 1925, Callaghan,
after Oxford, became a plant-breeder
with the N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, and in 1932 was appointed principal
of Roseworthy Agricultural College in
S.A. In War II his know-how was given
to the rural-industries section of the
Department of War Organisation of
Industry.
® a
Owner of the rugged phiz here Coven-
trated, A. R. West, g.-m. of North
Broken Hill mines and chairman of the
Hill’s mine-managers’ association, hails
MINER
from the West (his father a goldfields’
storekeeper). A.R. took his mining-
engineering diploma from Sydney Tech.,
and gathered experience for three years
as a casual laborer in the concern he now
runs, before going on to,.in turn, sur-
veyor, underground - manager, mine-
superintendent. Vice-president of the
Silver City Racing Club, he has a guiding
part as well in most of the Hill’s sporting
and cultural bodies.
Donald Mackinnon Cleland, Adminis-
trator of that area described on Page 25
of this issue, is seen here as artist Lusby
found him in Moresby. By reputation
one of the Second A.l.F.’s quietest briga-
diers, by profession a barrister, Cleland
was called to the Bar in Westralia in
1924, He joined the expeditionaries in
October, 1939; his later service in New
Guinea (including a period as 2-i.c. of
ADMINISTRATOR
A.N.G.A.U.) was a useful apprenticeship
to his present post. He had one shot at
politics—after John Curtin’s death he
put up a good fight against Kim Beazley
—and had had five years as director of
the Federal secretariat of the Liberal
party when, in 1951, he went north as
assistant-Administrator under Colonel
Jack Murray. Lusby found him still
(outwardly) quiet, a bluff, no-nonsense
manner about him, and temperamentally
more suited to administration (as New
Guinea’s progress has proved) than to the
rush and swagger of politics.
• •
Eric Mormond Baker, retiring from
the job of staff-director of the Myer
Emporium in Melbourne’s Bourke-street,
can look back to the days when a foot-
man ushered great ladies like Dame Nellie
Melba from their landaus into the little
old Bourke-street store called Wright
and Neill’s, out of which grew the vast
caravanserai which now covers two
blocks and pretty well everything in the
wearable, edible and other lines from
dim-sims to prefabricated houses. Baker
was a lad of 12 when he joined-up at five-
bob a week for half-a-century of service,
diversified by one break —service in the
First A.1.F., private to captain. Sixty-
five, an all-the-y ear-round swimmer, he
has been a prodigious worker for charit-
able organisations and is one of the eight
Victorians who can wear the Star of St.
John of the St. John Ambulance, with
rank of commandant.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 68, Abram Dalgliesh
Cunningham, deputy-director of Auckland
Public Library till he retired three years ago.
A Glaswegian, son of a newspaper-editor, he
shipped to Australia and for years was on the
staff of Sydney’s Mitchell Library. In War
II he was away with the Cameron Highlanders.
In Perth, at 84, Charles Harper, organist,
businessman, Lord Mayor of Perth from 1937
to 1939. High up in the Order of the Hospital
of St. John, he’d been treasurer and board-
member of the W.A. Justices’ Association.
At Ballarat (Vic.), at 85, Colonel Tom Ander-
son, Lighthorseman in the Middle East in
War I. A widely interested businessman in
Ballarat for years; brother David is as
well-known as a stock-agent of Horsham (Vic.).
In Sussex (Eng.), at 79, Lord Denman,
Deputy-Speaker of the House of Lords and
Australian Governor-General, 1911-14.
In Fremantle, at 62, Dr. Gerald Aubrey
Murray, Deputy-Director of the Commonwealth
Health Department. He had for uncles Greek
scholar Professor Gilbert Murray and the
former Administrator of Papua, Sir Hubert
Murray. After graduating in Sydney, G. A.
was quarantine-officer there, then Acting-
Director of Marine Hygiene in Canberra before
he received the Westralian appointment in 1934.
In Canterbury (Vic.), at 85, John Francis
Goldie, one of the most widely-known mis-
sionaries in the south-Pacific. He built the
first Methodist Mission at Roviana, in the
Solomons, and all told had half a century in
the islands, having returned to Melbourne two
years ago.


'Tney lo£nt thatawaV - uast ,
SUBURBAN HORROR-STRETCH


ABORIGINALITIES
ALONG the Maitland-road out of
Singleton (N.S.W.) during grasshop-
per-time sparrows congregate on the con-
ductors of the 33kV-line from New-
castle. Not more than an ounce or two
of feathers, these chirpy spags, but thou-
sands of them, wing to folded wing, over
a span of wire between poles will bring
that conductor down a foot or two with
their combined weight. Then, probably,
just for the heck of it, they all take
flight at, once. Released of the weight,
the wires spring up and sometimes foul
their opposite-number in a blue flash and
a shower of sparks. Out comes the
breaker at Newcastle on a short-circuit,
and the Hunter River Valley has a few
seconds’ blackout. —“Wire-buster.”
* * * *
“Gopeep”: Aboriginal drawings found
in the caves in the Carnarvon Ranges
(Q.) have aroused excitement among
students of abo. art and culture. Some
of the drawings are in the form of a
simple criss-cross of lines with a border
drawn round them, and they have been
interpreted as representing fishing-nets
or shields. Now, I
don’t wish to play the
iconoclast, but I did
know a character with
a quaint sense of humor
who went out to the
Carnarvons about 15
years ago, and he
always used to doodle
just like that on his
blotting-pad.
♦ ♦ *
“Sandy Bay”: No.
5828, “Service” page
(B. 16/6/’54), asks the
origin of the terms
“Run of your Dover”
and “Sport your
Dover.” The former,
in bus h-parlance,
meant “your food,”
the latter “Sit up to
the table.” Practic-
ally the only table-
implement known to
the outbacker of 70
years ago was his
sheath-knife, and the
then best-known was
the “Dover” - brand.
To see some of those
bushmen handle por-
ridge or thin stew with
one was a lesson in
highly-skilled manipu-
lation. For an em-
ployer to offer “A pound a week and
the run of your Dover” simply meant
“A pound a week and your keep.”
There was also the employer who offered
“Thirty-shillings a week and ate yerself,
or a pound a week and Biddy will ate
you,”
“Warihi” (N.Z.): The Aussie invasion
of this Dominion seems to be going
better than planned. Otago province is
supporting about 20,000,000 possums, on
latest estimates, and the old wallaby, too,
has adapted himself to Maoriland diet;
just lately Government officials stated
that more than 40,000 wallabies had been
culled from the lower-alpine area of
Canterbury. Sir George Grey introduced
wallabies, possums and kookaburras to
his island of Kawau; they still rather
more than hang on there.
* * * *
“Ida D.”; Touching on how the emu
got its name (B. 16/6/’54), the Darling
River abo. tribes call it “diniwin.” Some
of their bird-names are most attractive
when heard in the soft speech of the
abos. “Wirrilah” is the so-called scrub-
turkey, “did-jean-boah” the soldier-bird,
“booragoh-booragoh” the magpie, and
“baal-durra-durra” the curlew. A small
bird, the little sand-snipe, is burdened
with “billy-jool-bullagolandi.” “Bunda”
is kangaroo and “bunda-gwpi-narrojin”
embodies the legend of the little bird that
drank the kangaroo’s blood. “Wargin”
is the crow, “coo-chin” the black swan,
and “warrego” the eagle. In a different
locality altogether “moocooboola” is “an
eagle’s-nest between two waters”; it’s the
native name of the Sydney suburb of
Hunter’s Hill.
* * * *
“Bindyeye”: A few years back I
watched the progress of some prickly
abomination which might have been
allied to the thistle-family. It had burrs
like miniature goat-head prickles, and
it grew, an acre or so of it, in a thick
patch under a saddle in the hills —a gap
through which the prevailing winds
poured as from a funnel during the ripen-
ing of the seed. That patch of burr
leapfrogged itself in a rolling process a
chain or so every year. The winds were
too strong to let the ripe seeds fall; they
kept blowing them on ahead and gain-
ing ground all the time. In ten years the
patch of scrub had shifted over 600yds.
It jumped a creek, cleared a patch of
scrub, and would have been going yet
but for the fact that it hit a beach and
saltwater.
* * * •
“Bogaduck”: Some things can’t be
lived down. In 1912 my father and I
were walking along the 90-mile Coorong
Beach in S.A. It was a calm night with
a bright moon. Ahead, we saw some-
thing kicking and flapping in the wash
of a receding wave, and ran up, to cap-
ture a very queer-looking fish. Eight-
feet long, its body about four-inches
wide but little more than an inch thick,
it had no scales, and its skin looked as
if it had been given a coat of aluminium
"You'll be famous long after you’re dead—but
where does that get you?”
paint. From its head protruded two big
paddle-shaped fins. “I’ve heard of these
fellows,” said my father. “They call them
frost-fish in New Zealand. They strand
themselves on the beaches there when the
moon is full.” We took it back to camp,
and next morning all hands had a fine
breakfast off it. We preserved the head,
and on return to the city my father
handed it to the Museum director. He
held up his hands in horror. “The first
oar-fish ever recorded in South Australia”
he said, “and you ate it! ” Since that day
I’ve collected quite a few museum-sped-
mens, but whenever I fall down on the
job I get a glance of pity. “It’s only,”
I’m told, “what one would expect from
a fellow who once helped to eat an oar-
fish.”
* * * *
“5.4. E.”: Those fish which appeared in
a dam that had been dry for three years
(B. 16/6/’54) probably came from spawn
borne on the feathers of water-birds,
"I suppose they have their romantic moments, same as us."
At least that’s the theory on the presence
of small fish in the bore-drains of N.Q.
downs-country. But what I’d like to
know is how do said fish accustom them-
selves to living in water which in many
cases is almost too heavily mineralised
for human consumption, and particularly
in the vicinity of the bore-head itself,
where the water’s so hot it’s only just
bearable to the human hand. If anybody
doubts that they do, let me refer him to
the big bore on Artesian Downs, outside
Maxwelton. They are —or used to be—
there in plenty, along with scores of
small brown crabs, which certainly didn’t
walk overland sideways from the
Flinders River.
# * * *
“J. 8.”: The two best-known caves
in the great limestone-belt which stretches
along W.A.’s west coast from Cape
Naturaliste to the Leeuwin (B. 16/6/’54)
owe their accidental discovery to cattle.
A man named Connolly, looking for
strayed stock, was the first to enter the
majestic cavern of the Mammoth at Mar-
garet River. In 1901 Grace Bussel, of
the W.A. pioneer family, was finishing
mustering in failing light when her horse
suddenly propped and jibbed. Investiga-
tions in daylight revealed that he had
balked on the lip of the weird crater
containing the glittering fairyland of the
Lake Cave. In this area only 38 caves
have been explored and charted, and
much remains to be revealed. Geologists
believe the Lake Cave is connected with
the coast by subterranean passage. In-
cidentally, it was Grace Bussel who in
1876 earned the name of “Australia’s
Grace Darling” by swimming her horse
out to the wreck of the Georgette. She
and a half-caste stockman, with survivors
clinging to their horses’ manes and tails,
managed to rescue the 55 aboard.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Whereas sheep feed into
the wind (B. 23/6/’54), cattle invariably
feed with it —the leeward side of the pad-
dock is the place to find the main mob
when you’re mustering. The theory is
that the sheep, being low to the ground,
relies on scent to warn him of enemies.
This, of course, leaves his rear un-
guarded, but it’s just the sort of silly
action one would expect from a sheep.
Cattle, being taller, and better armed in
front, rely on sight for protection against
danger from ahead, whilst the wind gives
warning of an attacker from the rear.
♦ * * ♦
“Merwyn Quirp”: The behavior of
cows milling round a new-born calf
(B. 9/ 6 / ’54) is often matched by dogs.
When one of a pack of hunting-dogs is
immobilised by a kick or a crash the
others will play a sort of Soccer game.
using him as a ball. This has even been
seen to follow when a car has bowled a
dog over. One explanation is that it
induces a kind of artificial respiration,
and that may have been the object of the
bovine display. So far from experiencing
any harm, the calf probably had its life
saved by the treatment,
* « « *
“Kerba”: “Ece-chong !" The bird’s call
stopped me in mid-stride—and whisked
me back 35 years. Perhaps that echong,
perched on a parody of a box-tree, had
returned just to visit the haunts of his
ancestors. Pity I can’t tell him what it
was like in those days, when this was all
bush except for the narrow track used
principally by the baker’s cart; when
the call of the bird’s forebears received
an answer from the whipbird, and the
soft, long-drawn, rising note of the dia-
mond-sparrow and quick chirp of the
redhead drew attention to the pretty
little blokes picking at the grass-seeds.
Civilisation took the huge gums that
used to attract swarms of parakeets
when the flowers were on. Then there
were the grass-parrots that would come
for two or three days and vanish for two
or three years. There were yellow-bobs,
thrushes, blue-jhys—a host of ’em, not
forgetting the inevitable eaglehawk
drifting across the sky. And now? The
peewees and kookas have stayed. So
have the swogs, willy-wagtails and an
occasional blue-wren and family. The
spags and starks are still with
us, of course, and a jacky-winter
sometimes looks in. But the others never
come now. An astounding thought
strikes me. I wouldn’t know the echong
if I saw him! In all the years I knew
him he was always a friendly voice in
the bush. I never remember establishing
his identity.
* * ♦ ♦
“C.A.A.”: My grandfather recalls that
a useful stratagem adopted by parties
lost in the bush to get to the nearest
station or homestead was to light a fire
in a clearing. This would almost invari-
ably attract crows, which, on seeing there
was nothing to be eaten, would fly off
in a direct line to the nearest habitation.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Sebak”: Bunny provides the perfect
example of the difference between cour-
age and fortitude. No animal in the
world displays greater fortitude when
injured—he’ll leave a front-leg in a trap
and be hopping around in thick frost
the next night. One I saw was minus
both front-legs, and was caught by a
back-leg, only the sinew preventing his
third escape. But he still had plenty of
life in him when taken from the trap,
and despite what he’d been through he
wasn’t poor. Yet, armed though a bunny
is with big, strong teeth and powerful
back-legs equipped with sharp claws, he
will huddle into a corner and allow a
ferret to suck out his life’s-blood with-
out attempting to defend himself.
Strangely, however, buck-rabbits will
fight among themselves. I’ve seen one
sink his teeth in an opponent’s back and
claw savagely with front-feet while the
other dragged him around in a vain effort
to break the grip. On that form he would
have stood a good chance with a ferret.
Perhaps it is fear of the unknown —and
that is not confined to rabbits: any
schoolboy would rather fight his brother
than a strange kid.
FISHERMAN, MOONLIGHT BAY
Here, where the land lies drowsing, face-down-
ward,
Arms thrown forward idly to encompass the bay
With a knuckle of headlands —
Here 1 saw his silent midnight fishing.
Saw his torso like a black rock off-shore —
Standing thefe thigh-deep with the moonlight
Lapping his great boots or falling back silver
From his wading furrows;
Thigh-deep in the moonlight like a post
In a basin of quicksilver—a fisherman
Waiting, tied to his rope of corks
On a frozen mirror;
Saw him pull back, grunting, to shore —
The bay in his net, and the long rope
Leaping with shine, an arrowing glade
Of downward diamonds.
But the moon in his net slipped through,
Fell to a silver stain soaking the water,
Edged with light the dull strands of his meshes
And floated out to sea.
And the slowly-forward net, straining the water,
Sifting the sea-things from the calm of the moon,
Brought at last the bunt to the sandy seashore
Under the sea-boots’ crunching.
And then, poured out from the streaming of
weed and water,
In a spattering shower at the end of the'cold
white haul,
I saw in a stream like the fall of a creek over
boulders
Slivers of the silver moon there after all.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.


BY the time the Queensland University’s
mobile science display reached Stan-
thorpe the word had got around about
the Geiger-counter, and the local turned-
up with enough rocks to fill a couple of
3-ton trucks. One old diehard from over
the border, after repeated negative tests
on his sugar-bag of samples, was still
unconvinced, and exploded; “That ——
gadget’s no good. I know the soil’s
rotten with u ranium!” —“Silentia.”
# * ♦ *
“Bass”: A four-year-old boy was
lost in the bush near a W.A. country-
town, and the native tracker leading a
search-party said that the lad was sitting-
up, asleep, about a mile away in a cer-
tain direction. That was at 4 a.m.; and
the native then led the party straight to
the boy, who was sitting-up asleep. A
Perth daily described the native as “lynx-
eyed,” evidently assuming he had actu-
ally seen the boy—through a mile of
bush at night. Of course he hadn’t. The
knowledge came to him through some
other sense. There’s nothing new about
this. Early W.A. settlers were amazed
when natives accurately predicted the
arrival, a day or more in advance, of
vessels which were then far out of sight
of land and beyond communication;
they soon came to rely on these forecasts.
Some of the old witch-doctors, too, were
known to be able to communicate over
long distances, and this tracker, an old
man* may also have possessed the power
to some degree.
* * * *
“Kelms”: If “Fairf,” speaking of
“migratory swallows” (B. 9/6/’54), means
the “welcome” swallow, then it may not
be a case of the birds not knowing the
rules, but of himself not knowing the
bird. In W.A., at least, these birds are
not migratory, although in winter those in
each district may flock to a central point
and roost together. In some favored
localities they don’t even bother to do
that, and country towns which provide
decent shop-verandas with nice sheltered
positions can count on having the little
insect-eaters throughout the year.
* * * *
“Dustman”: I’ll welcome any explana-
tion “C.A.L.” has to offer on how his
cheating contractor cut those trees off
at ground-level and so got them passed by
the engineer as grubbed-out
(B. 9/6/’54). In the W.A.
wheatbelt during the depresh I
contract-cleared hundreds of
acres, and one invariable con-
dition was that the ground had
to be cleared to ground-level.
Where timber was heavy you
chopped everything axe-handle
high, trying to drop the trees
in the direction from which the
late summer winds would blow,
and stacked branches around
the stumps. A good fire a few
months later burnt everything,
the stumps often burning well
below ground-level. After a
good burn there was nothing left
that a few shovelfuls of earth
wouldn’t hide. But in sparse
country, with a few big trees a
fair way apart, it was sometimes
hard to get a good burn, and
having to cart wood to burn the
stumps took the profit. I often
tried to cut small trees down
near-enough, but there was
always plenty to show where
they’d stood, I could have
grubbed them, but that wouldn’t
have paid, either, at 275. 6d.
an acre. And, anyhow, what
sort of an engineer was it who
couldn’t tell, with a probe, whether
the earth had been disturbed or not?
» * # »
“Pohon Puti”: One of the world’s
great ethnological puzzles is the finding
of Bronze Age implements in New
Guinea. At Lake Sentani, inland from
Hollandia, some well-made bronze axe-
heads were found. They are definitely
not of Chinese make, and they are dif-
ferent from items of any other known
Bronze Age culture, including the one
which existed in parts of Indonesia some
2500 years ago. I’ve handled one relic
mvself. it appeared to be part of a two-
edged bronze sword-blade or spearpomt
which a present-day native had turned
into an adze-blade. The Digger who
“ Didn't quite make it once —flopped on their garden."
had it refused to part with it. I heard of
several other finds of the same kind. If
any man who served in New Guinea has
one these ancient bronze implements,
the S.A. Museuni would be mighty glad
of a chance to examine it.
» * * *
“Harbel”: Hate to pick holes in such
an enjoyable yarn as A. E. Sturges’s
“Trial” (B. 2/6/’54), but Studley’s men-
tal observation that nowadays carpenters
“used any old box or bag and any old
tools” is a bit out. Carpenters have never
been so uniform in the matter of tool-
boxes. A very old tradesman may still
stick to the concave-shaped canvas or
woven-straw bag, but even when chippies
are hard to get he would be an optimist
who turned-up on a new job with any
kind other than the long, narrow, deep
box Such a keen observer as Studley
£
trician’s, etc., toolbox. A carpenter’s-
box opens with a drop-action half-way
down the side. No other toolbox looks
anything like it.
Around the Country
OLD CARGELLIGO
Up at Lake Cargelligo
Coots and long-legged waders go;
Up and down along the sand
Quizz of beaks on every hand;
Pitching foot and plashing toe
Up the foreshores to and fro.
World of water, whoop and cry,
Hoots and bedlam reach the sky;
Musk-ducks croak and pellies crake,
Moorhens scud and widgeons break;
Ceaseless cacklings rise and flow
Right across Cargelligo.
Dead Man’s Point and Neilsen's Pier,
Knight’s Lake Store and Blacker’s beer,
Regan’s Swamp and Butler’s Hill,
Rifle Trig, and Brooks’s Mill;
“Regulus” and Wooyeo
Go with Lake Cargelligo.
Oxley labelled “Regent’s Lake - ’
All for George’s Regent’s sake;
Mitchell, when, he came along,
Gave it “Lake Cudjallagong”;
When I was an infant, though,
Seniors said “Cudgellico.”
Sergeant Murphy, first of men,
Ruled in iron and mercy then;
Hayley, Oakes, MacKellar, Steer,
Squired and left it in their year,
Took their fling and cracked their cracks;
“Should have left it to the blacks.”
When I was a little boy
Teams of Jim and Ted Molloy
Strung like serpents past our door
Held me spelled as nothing more,
Till fresh magic thrilled the eye
When Budd’s coach went flashing by.
Libereum this to ask
While ’neath distant skies I bask:
Stand the sawpits where they stood,
Work of George and Andy Wood?
Stand their bridgework timbers still
Tribute to their worth and skill?
Still their adze-work trim and true
Where they blued and squared the blue?
Still their uprights straight as dies?
Still their joggles, still their ties?
Ere my quizzing has to stop,
Who runs Byrnes’s butcher’s shop?
Still runs Moxham’s cycle-track
’Round the Oval, front and Back?
Still “The News” as bravely run
Piloted by Patterson?
Still their channelled waterways,
Requiems to first Macßaes?
Stand the wool-wash works to-day
Over Billy Turner’s way?
Still the big impounding-banks
Thanks to Brooks and Prior —thanks!
Who, when early floods came down,
Topped them up and saved the town?.
Sleeps McKinley soundly still
Down the flat from Butler’s Hill?
Bland, McFadzean, Selfridge, Knight,
Choong, MacKellar, Davis Wright?—
Townsmen newchums wouldn’t know
Now at Lake Cargelligo.
Do my mates of yesteryear
In familiar haunts appear?
Chook and Widge and Billy Wright,
Albert Mac and Gundy Knight,
Chalker, Brummy, Roger Good,
George and Jim and Alex Wood?
Is Tom Sheedy still to see?
Billy Conway, Neil O’Bree?
Still Jack Hartley meet the eye?
Sparrow Viant and Arthur Guy?—
Names that meant a lot to me:
Pooler, Parker, Parnaby. . .
Oh, to take the motif on! —
Hometown Thompsons, George and Ron,
Don Mclnnes, Paddy Barnes,
Hughie Cameron, Christie Carnes,
Keogh and Gock Costello,
Signify Cargelligo.
How I vividly recall,
Picked at random from them all,
Charlie Phillips, Charlie Dale,
Charlie Creswick, Charlie Gale,
Higgins, swarthy, stern and strong,
“Booberoi” Euabalong!
Someday I must make a break,
Turn about and face the Lake,
Walk her limestone streets again,
Seek her lists of happy men,
Take her waters cool and clear
All the way from ’Rocks to Weir;
Go again and say good-day
To Tommy Townshend, Ken Macßae;
Smoke and yarn and spend an hour
At Dan Mac’s immortal bower,
Stroll the foreshores up and down
Round the Common, round the town;
Walk down Mrs. Foster’s street
Old accomplices to meet —
Mrs. Foster, so I’m told,
That way walking found the gold:
Richer wealth for me to find:
Worth and metal —human kind;
At Jim Biacker’s door to stand,
There to shake Jim Biacker’s hand:
Slackers —they have made and make
Lore and legend at the Lake. . .
But the party’s getting late:
Lo, the Watchman’s at the gate!
Sometimes write and let me know,
Kinsmen at Cargelligo.
N.S.W.
A.J. WOOD.
MELALEUCAS
Old is the hill; the bush trees thick and old;
their fallen brothers lie, half-log, half-mould;
and, shadow-ridden, the creek runs thin and
cold.
Lichens have sealed the rocks and stamped their
ctcsts *
moss clings like a rug for warmth; aloft the
nests
of gone-away birds await the winds’ behests.
Down the hill’s wayside, shine and shadow spun,
the summer’s melaleucas seem to run
eager with rosy fingers for the sun,
the birds to come, the surging life begun.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
PELICAN
Goolay-yali
As often as he wishes
Sails along the River
Hunting fishes.
In the shining morning
Or underneath the moon
On a pearly waterway
Of the dark lagoon
Goolay-yali
With close-hauled wings
Searches the water
For fingerlings.
Where the azure-breasted
coot
Shakes white petticoats
All along the reedy bank
Goolay-yali floats.
Silent as the River,
White as a cloud,
Still he is fishing
When morning shouts
aloud
And duck and heron
And black swans fly
Above the silken ribbon
On the morning sky.
And Goolay-yali
As long as he wishes
Lingers on the River
Hunting fishes.
s.a.
IRENE GOUGH.
THE PALE-GREEN WAVE
Out of the night-blue sea the long pale-green
wave, in low thunder finds the shoie unseen.
The fire’s deep heart among the boulder-stones
eats through the timbers and the driftwood
spars.
At that first broken cry I knew the swans
passed in dark shapes across the scattered stars.
Lie warm, my love, held in the arm I hollow.
The swans go over, swan by swan they follow
on to their star-reflecting still lagoons.
The fire’s coals darken. On, in deepening
far down the curving shore, among the dunes,
sounds the long hexameter of the pale-green
wave.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
THE EDGE OF NIGHT
When the cattle come to the waterhole
At the edge of night,
They rub their hides on the gum-tree bole,
And the bulls talk fight.
The little calves play in the velvet dust.
Where sharp hooves have crumbled the claypan
crust;
Out in the brigalow a sly fox prowls,
And back in the ranges a dingo howls,
And the boundary-rider’s blue dog growls.
The summer dusk deepens beneath the trees,
While the rising moon calls the evening breeze;
Far down along the creek a wood-duck calls
To waken the curlews when darkness falls.
The old grey mare suckles her dappled foal
At the edge of night,
When the cattle come to the waterhole,
And the bulls talk fight.
N.S.W.
H UI TE RANGIORA.


r n
lELf
V
m
.'i
mm
I
m
“Xou asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir?
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
BENSON and Hedges Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMEI
TOBACCONISTS
h
ĥ
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world's most
famous liners, including the following great ships:
QUEEN ELIZABETH - QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES ■ AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE • SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIC • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN ■ ORONTES • ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO • MAURETANIA
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET / LONDON • W
tew/mB
without FAG!
WITH A
E 3
m
.-g/sl
£23/10/
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books,” Contest eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Centex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy,
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
■«. * CHARTRES Ltd
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins'St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
PERTH:
C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
Also 9,t!
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
Business.Rollery.Etc.
The Oil-Uranium Circus
THE oil-uranium circus goes
full pelt on Australian Stock
Exchanges. A week or two ago
the Omati No. 1 bore of Aus-
tralasian Petroleum focused
attention on Oil Search shares.
Since then oil-shows at 9789 ft.
at Rough Range No. 1 have
swung attention away from New
Guinea and turned interest to
West Australia —and the Ampol
companies. At the same time
almost all oil shares, regardless
of the location of their prospect-
ing permits, have danced in price
and increased in turnover. There
has been a rush for the scrip in
two new Queensland floats to
search near Longreach.
Australasian Oil Exploration,
Ltd., is marrying its oil-search
with uranium leases. It kicked-
off with permits in southern and
central W.A., another near
Springsure (Q.), an application
for a permit around Dam
(Papua), and with negotiations rn
train in respect of a Lakes
Entrance (Vic.) area.' Since )t
has acquired mineral leases near
Mt. Isa (Q.) on which it is testing
a uranium-bearing lode it has be-
come popularly known as “The
Five-in-one.” The public sub-
scribed £1,050,000 in 4,200,000
ss. shares, and Cable Oil
Syndicate gets £200,000 in fully-
paid shares, half already and the
balance within two years. It is
entitled to take up another
£200,000-worth of shares within
the same time-limit.
The contributing shares in
A.O.E. have been fluctuating
around 10s.
Another concern which has
been looking at uranium
propositions as well as oil
prospects is Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields, N.L. Its
own issued capital is
3,500,000 10s. shares called to
45., and it holds 300,000 10s.
shares in Associated Freney
Oilfields. A.A.O. is also drilling
at Roma (Q.).
Associated Freney has an
issued capital of 8,000,000 10s.
shares, and it has taken over the
Freney Kimberley properties in
north-west W.A. Freney Kim-
berley owns 1,000,000 10s. shares
in Associated Freney, and its
own issue is 1,500,000 shares of
6s. each.
Shares in Associated Australian
Oilfields have been selling around
10s.; those in Associated Freney
at 205.; and those in Freney
Kimberley at 13s. 6d.
AH these issues have appre-
ciated following the news of oil-
shows in the Wapet No. 1 Rough
Range hole. The Freney areas
are considerably to the north-
east of Rough Range, but
geological opinion of the area
has been not unfavorable.
At No, 1 Rough Range .itself
attempts to make a packer-test of
the oil-showings at 9789 ft. were
unsuccessful because of the
deterioration of the walls of the
hole. A formation-test carried
out at 9803ft.-9810ft. resulted in
no recovery of oil. Drilling
thereupon recommenced.
Up to Monday morning no new
statement had come from Aus-
tralasian Petroleum concerning
Omati No. 1, Oraati No. 2 is still
well short of the level reached
in No. 1, where gas-pressure
closed the hole and made it neces-
sary to bypass the stuck metal.
With regard to uranium, some
responsible (as well as irrespon-
sible) interests have been
attracted to the Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry area. This locality has
yet to be prospected thoroughly,
but the outlook at least seem
promising. Elsewhere in Aus-
tralia properties that have been
tested have been abandoned right
and left, and only a small pro-
portion retain responsible
company or Government interest.
Many Northern Territory shows
Tiave been a disappointment.
The oil-uranium circus con-
tinues to be one of the greatest
“A few more like this and we'll have the plant paid for !”
gambles in Australian Stock
Exchange history. No gold boom
ever had so little foundation as
the oil-uranium fever. True, oil,
if discovered in payable
quantities in Australia, would
very likely cover a larger area
than any goldmine—a much
larger area than the Golden Mile
or the Broken Hill silver-lead
saddle-reef —and would be per-
haps of greater economic signi-
ficance. But* the fact must be
faced that at present there is far
more activity on the Stock
Exchanges than there is in actual
oil-prospecting.
With regard to uranium, no
one knows where a big find
might be made, perhaps of the
greatest national importance.
But again Stock Exchange specu-
lation is out of all proportion to
results to date. A lot of it Is
cynical speculation ; a lot of it
is gambling by suckers.
Migrated Oil
From L. Owen (consulting
petroleum-geologist): The slick
of crude oil which came up in
the “returns” from 9789 ft, in
Wapet’s Rough Range No. 1
test-well is interesting from many
points of view, quite apart from
the geological platitude that it
increases the possible area over
which oil may be struck.
Directly above the point of its
derivation there occurs a column
of 6000 ft. of strata of varying
but considerable hardness which
separates it from the horizon
which produced the 3605 ft. oil.
and broken by only one thin
permeable bed which provided a
flow of salt-water at 5417 ft. It
is therefore quite legitimate to
assume that the two shows of oil
have distinct origins, although
there is, so far, no sound proof
of this, and care must be taken
in jumping to conclusions owing
to the obviously migratory
nature of both oils.
The chemical and physical
properties of the upper oil are
so characteristic of a migrated
crude that the tardiness of the
recognition of this fact by the
Department of National De-
velopment is difficult to under-
stand, and the occurrence of the
lower oil (whose properties are
as yet unknown to me) in a
fracture zone makes it almost
certain that it, also, has been
subjected to some degree of
migration. The most obvious
inference from the published
evidence is that it was encoun-
tered when the drill struck the
fractured material forming the
filling of a fault zone up which
the oil had travelled from an
unknown depth.
These facts raise several
problems, not the least of which
is the determination of the course
and direction of the oil-migration
—a problem which must be
solved unless the developmental
programme to define the limits
of the 3605 ft. oil-horizon is to
degenerate into sheer wild-
catting. The solution of the
problem is complicated by the
fact that the subsurface structure
at Rough Range is nothing like
as simple as was imagined when
Wapet first took over.
This was to be anticipated, of
course, from the comparatively
short distance to the east at which
the basal complex outcrops, but
the difficulties raised are not
beyond solution by geologists
with field experience on oilfields
which produce from “pools” of
migrated oil and where intensive
drilling has allowed the course
of the migration to be traced.
An interesting inference from
the Wapet reports is the growing
tendency to believe that the
thickness of clastic strata under-
lying Rough Range is by no
means as great as was thought
when its own geologists and
geophysicists took over the field-
work. It would now appear that
the estimate is getting nearer to
Clapp’s 1926 figure than to the
17,000 ft.-plus favored by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
There is no doubt, however,
that the organisation behind
Wapet can and will iron out the
existing difficulties and will strike
commercial oil if —in fact —it
occurs under this area, which
can still be described as the most
promising structure currently
being studied on the Australian
mainland.
Longreach Oil, Ltd.
Longreach Oil, Ltd., is to be
formed to test-bore areas covered
by petroleum-prospecting permits
east of Longreach (Q.), and a
petroleum-prospecting authority
covering an adjacent 3500 square
miles. Capital of the co. will be
£200,000 in 1,600,000 shares of
2s. 6d. each, payable 6d. on
application and the balance of
2s. at a date to be determined.
The issue has been heavily
applied for.
Purpose of the issue is to buy
or hire suitable plant and equip-
ment to drill in the vicinity of the
old Longreach bore, in which oil
was found to be contaminating
the water when the bore was
originally sunk. The directors
feel that with modern equipment
and technique the oil-bearing
and water-bearing strata can be
separated.
The co. is letting a contract to
drill a deep hole at Cleeve to Oil
Drilling and Exploration, Ltd., a
Sydney co. which is also
interested in the Maryborough
Basin. Water-bores sunk in the
Longreach district in the past
have shown evidence of gas, oil
and wax in small quantities.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divoecb.
TO ALAN CAVE BOYLE late of 6 Albert
Road Croydon Park New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA DOREEN
BOYLE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 354 of 1954 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 21st October 19.54
and obtain a copy of the 'petition without
charge from L. W. WILLIAMS, Solicitor,
of 79/81 Campsie Street, Campsie, or his
agents, JONES JONES & JONES, Solici-
tors, of 183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar,
The
‘‘WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Have you got
f'&ftreye
v>
0
BELtS
f,cotc(. W h
K)O% SCOTCH WHISKIJ*
DISTILLED AMD BLEND* 1 '
IN SCOTLAND
D| STILLERS««™SCOT ‘
ESTABLISHED
moduct o f *
We are not talking about books or
plays or clothes. We mean ‘Good
taste’ In the strict sense.
When you drink whisky, for
example, do you really taste it
critically? It’s always agreeable
to be offered Scotch Whisky. But
it’s memorable when you’re
offered Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky, Note that name— Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Established in
1825. We’d like you to try Bell’s
Whisky, It brings to mind the
echo of Scottish breezes, the
burbling of Scottish burns,
the ripple of ripe barley fields,
and has that slight suggestion
that hints at Highland peat
and heather. If you can sense the
subtle artistry of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky —truly you can call
yourself a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
y
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6*B O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB I 3 1 (3 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
NAI
QANTAS
Incorporating
BCPA,
NOW LINKS AUSTRALIA WITH
North America
Luxurious Super Constellation now operating for
first time across the Pacific.
At your service— internationally —QANTAS now
extends its global operations across the Pacific
to U.S.A. and Canada. The high standards of
passenger-comfort established on this famous
“Southern Cross” route by the previous
operators—BCPA —will be maintained by
QANTAS.
Newest, finest airliner on the Pacific, the
modern Super Constellation has restful
“sleeper-seats” and provides de-luxe first-
class and tourist air travel. Regular twice-
weekly services from Sydney via Fiji and
glamourous Honolulu to San Francisco —
extending to Vancouver three times fort-
nightly.
Consult your Travel Agent.
QANTAS world routes with associated airlines.
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE OFFERS YOU WORLD-WIDE SERVICE
—Links Australia, Nth. America, Europe, Sth. Africa, The Orient, Pacific Is.
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (inc. in Queensland) —incorporating BCPA—
in association with B.O.A.C. and TEAL
33 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
How to raise £4,000,000?
Simple. A well-established
industrial concern, the Rolls-
Royce Company, issues 4 per
cent, debentures and has to turn
away offers four times that sum.
London Transport, requiring
£4,300,000 for itself and a further
£1,000,000 to subsidise British
Railways, is happily free of the
need to borrow money. All it
has to do is to put up the fares.
Londoners may take refuge in
organised protests or individually
mutter under their breaths, but
the statutory public inquiry to
hear complaints is a formality, if
not a farce. Everything is cut
and dried. That is bureaucracy.
The complaints are met with
suave imperturbability soft
answers that don’t turn away
wrath—and the blame is neatly
laid on the public for not being
travel-conscious in its leisure
hours. If plans are modified it is
not due to negotiation between
the bureaucrats and the com-
plainant bodies. Last autumn
the Prime Minister personally
intervened to prevent the double
imposition of higher fares and
shortened stages; and now
Londoners have been granted a
few months’ reprieve while the
British Transport Commission is
considering modifications that
will reduce the £4,300,000 to
£3,600,000, more or less on the
ground that the extra £700,000
was intended to be in the nature
of a handsome reserve.
Setting aside Londoners’
grouses, which are entirely their
own affair, the overall picture is
a conflicting one. On the one
hand industry, largely stimulated
by the easing of Government
controls, is flourishing. Prices
for the most part have remained
stable. On the other, the
nationalised services seem to be
pulling in the opposite direction.
There is trouble on the railways
because of unofficial opposition
to “lodging-turns”—an essential
contribution to the greater
efficiency that was promised as
a result of the “Munich” wage-
increases last Christmas. The
Coal Board, notwithstanding its
imaginative statistics, has done
little or nothing to improve upon
its poor record beyond a take-it-
or-leave-it increase of 2s. 6d. a
ton in the London area.
Perhaps our nationalised
concerns are too sheltered, too
cosily feather-bedded. It would
do them no harm to have a spell
of sleeping “rough.”
Political Flashes
Argument about Geneva is
chiefly limited to its apparent
failure —whether creditable or
quixotic. One school of
opinion sees a painful repetition
of the Hitlerian strategy —gain-
ing time by talking while plan-
ning further conquests. But
another, despite the pointed
cruelty of “Punch,” can’t believe
that Anthony Eden is as dewy-
eyed as Chamberlain was.
Eden’s approach to foreign
affairs is one of undeterred
patience to try to create some
sort of order out of chaos; and
when that crashes, to start all
over again. But he doesn’t shut
his eyes to realism. Observers
from Geneva believe that he has
achieved some slight hardening
of the neutralists, notably India,
against Communism, but no
more.
Those who see no value in
demonstrating further the utter
intransigence of the Russians
write the conference off as a
fiasco and also disapprove of the
Washington trip. They feel that,
possibly, the visit may do more
harm than good to Anglo-
American relations. Even if the
more subtle British attitude is to
be preferred to uncompromising
bluster, can we hope, in our very
junior capacity, to put it over?
The Labor party has demon-
strably thumped the table in
favor of German rearmament by
issuing a yellow - backed
pamphlet, “In Defence of
Europe.” It presents the case
cogently and forcefully, gives the
official lie to the “illusion still
persisting that Communism and
Socialism have something in
common,” ties up the subject
with good Socialism, and while
avoiding any mention of
bilateralism, nevertheless re-
marks: “If Labor’s foreign
policy had- at all costs to be
different from the Tories, there
would be some strange results.”
Labor’s Right has evidently
decided that it must assert itself,
for the party is divided roughly
half-and-half on this issue.
Commendably a bold stroke, for
feelings are so strong that there
was every temptation to evade
the problem which will only
exacerbate existing conflicts.
! Already Mr. Bevan, in
common with the “Daily
Worker,” has attacked the
8.8. C. for devoting a two-hour
programme to German rearma-
ment “in order to influence an
argument inside the Labor
party.” It is no coincidence that
an issue, savoring so much of
“conscience” and black-and-
white arguments, which cuts
right across the Labor party,
should excite Mr. Sevan's
indignant attention.
Many Paris
Ruth Draper, who travels
about the world with the cosmo-
politanism of an instrumental
virtuoso, is in London (Duke of
York’s Theatre) for one of her
four-week seasons.
From one who calls himself
a seasoned London playgoer of
25 years’ standing, the admission
that he saw her for the first time
the other evening is wrung out
only with shamefaced regret.
For here, practising a craft that
is often cheap, superficial and
meretricious, is a great artist who
refuses to taint her consummate
virtuosity with facile tricks of
audience-appeal. An exaggerated
gesture, a raised eyebrow or a
meaningful glance out front and
Miss Draper could make the best
“turn” on her, or our, side of
the Atlantic seem as amateurish
as a local talent night, so precise
is her technique.
There are whispers that she
may retire soon, and that her
“public” is less clamorous than
it was before the war. Well, she
is in the mid-sixties, and it may
be that some of the character-
studies which brought her fame
have lost their freshness.
Young playgoers of this I’m-
as-good-as-you-are age might
certainly be at a loss to under-
stand the finer points of her
best-known sketch, “Opening a
Bazaar,” in which an Edwardian
duchess, with flower-pot hat,
feather boa and silk parasol.
plays the Grand Lady to the
village. A mildly absurd figure,
of course, but what a depth of
understanding, integrity and
sense of purpose lies beneath her
parochial noblesse oblige and her
easy, well-bred patronage. One
wonders if the present head of
her ancestral home, whether
headmaster. National Board big-
wig or industrial tycoon, is so
unsparing and utterly devoid of
class-consciousness as this slightly
gushing volunteer of good works.
With no change of basic make-
up or costume, other than a
shawl. Miss Draper went on to
present three generations of
Yiddisher New Yorkers —a
toothless, self-pitying crone, a
sick and worn-out mother and
a good-time girl of 19. Then a
spiky New Englander at an art-
show.
Then a one-person drama,
“Three Women and Mr.
Clifford,” in which she succes-
sively plays the indispensable
secretary, the unworthy wife and
the true-hearted, selfless mistress.
The wife, a sour and weary
socialite, is put over with an
unrelieved cruelty that perhaps
overexpresses Miss Draper's
obvious dislike of her creation.
Finally, after “county” English
and half a dozen American
accents. Miss Draper acts, in
“Vive la France,” a dialogue be-
tween a young French peasant
and her mother-in-law when the
one man whose love they share
is making his get-away across
the Channel. She writes all her
sketches, and proves her versa-
tility by delivering this last one
in fluent, idiomatic French.


What do these words tonvey to you?
. .
If you have agreed to act as Executor of a Will, have you
considered the vital and immediate attention that will be necessary
when the time arrives for you to enter upon your duties; the
responsibilities that will descend upon you?
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited is always happy to give
full information on these matters, and to explain how the Company
may act as Executor (or Trustee) with or instead o£ a person who
has been appointed in those capacities.
If you would like further information on this important subject,
write for a free copy of our booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee
or telephone for an appointment, without obligation.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
Directors: Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
AG. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director. TRUST AND AGENCY
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73.000.000 W, S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
ot:
08429 GE and
TAMWORTB,
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Email, Ltd,
rwas in 1936 that the board set to
work to bring under one control a
group of allied industries manufacturing
electrical, household and other equip-
ment. Broadly the aim was to quicken
turnover and cheapen unit-costs by
eliminating waste in buying and selling
as- well as overlapping in organisation.
Results to date are a testimony to the
success achieved in a sheltered and
rapidly-expanding post-war market.
The group, whose activities are Com-
monwealth-wide, now consists of parent
and 31 subsidiary and associated cos.,
whose products include electric-power
generators, motors, meters and switch-
gear, and refrigerators, vacuum-cleaners,
washing-machines, stoves, heaters, gas-
and hot-water appliances, radios, tele-
phone equipment and petrol and other
pumps.
By absorptions and otherwise
£1,062,336, which brought with it
£785,648 of share-premiums, has been
added to paid capital since 1944, lifting
the figure to £1,899,688, of which
£lOO,OOO carries a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
After deducting intangibles (£436,257),
reserves at Dec. 31 last totalled
£3,049,185, of which £1,000,000 is pro-
vision against stock- and plant-deprecia-
tion. And over the last nine years divs.
have averaged 8.9 p.c., the rate being
steady at 12i p.c. for the last three of
them.
It is a heartening performance all
things considered. Despite a sharp fall in
sales of electrical and other household
appliances during 1952, the contraction
in the year’s net earnings was only
£16,639, due largely to completion of
five out of seven new power-houses for
electric-supply authorities, and partly to
the fact that the 1951 profit was written
after sending £400,000 to the stock- and
plant-depreciation reserve, to which no
further additions have been made.
Last term saw completion of the
power-house contracts, and output and
sales of household appliances and sun-
dry electrical equipment, etc., gathered
momentum as the year advanced, thanks
to the recovery in the building and ancil-
lary trades and continued expansion of
consumer credit, especially during the last
half of the year. The improved produc-
tivity and sales more than offset the
relatively moderate growth in operating
costs, and the rate of co.-tax was lighter.
So, after setting aside £406,399 for
depreciation and something for taxation,
etc., the board wrote net earnings of the
entire group £68,665 stronger at
£509,510:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Net r Divs. v To Re- Re-
Dec.. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
'50..347,823 6 p.c. 124 p.c. 201,298 146,525 1,559,933
Share premiums, £155,689 .. .. 1,715,622
Net addition reserves, £153,218 .. 1,868,840
P. &I. debit new subside., £23,922 1,844,918
Net addition intangibles, £11,193 .. 1,833,725
To contingencies, £400,000 . . - . 2,233,725
’61..457.484 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 212,553 244,931 2,478,656
Share premiums, £50,737 .. .. 2,529,393
Net addition reserves, £10,895 .. 2,540,288
Added intangibles, £49,869 .. •• 2,490,419
'52..440,845 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 218,425 222,420 2,712,839
Share premiums, £123,750 .. .. 2,836,589
Added reserves, £61,565 .. •. 2,898,154
Added intangibles, £115,617 .. .. 2,782,537
Debenture issue exes., £16,026 . . 2,766,511
■63-509,510 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 226,836 282,674 3,049,185
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
After paying the pref. div. (£6000),
enough remained to show 28.5 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 25.5. 27.3,
21.9, 10.9 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1948.
Maintenance of the 12* p.c. div. was thus
a comfortable matter. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
the year’s profit was 9.4 p.c.; so the
pref/ capital and debenture money are
earning a lot more than their keep.
The £509,510 of profit leaves out of the
reckoning items -interlined in the table.
The year’s additions to share-premiums
(up £123,750) and intangibles (up
£115,617) resulted from the * issue of
330,000 f.-p. ss. shares at a premium of
7s. 6d. each in exchange for all the scrip
in the 50-year-old refrigeration and air-
conditioning business of R. Werner and
Co. Pty., Melbourne.
During the year £500,000 of fresh
5 p.c. debenture money was gathered
and book-debts (including those of the
hire-purchase subsidiary) increased by
£590,607:
Email and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— . 1951. 1962. • 1953.
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. 1,666,451 1,717,188 1,799,688
Reserves . . 2,478,656 2,712,839 3,049,185
Outside interests 45,026 55,207 58,527
Debentures, etc. 354,625 354,625 862,832
Creditors .. 1,968,869 2,844,588 1,833,044
Tax provision,
etc.* .. 3,672,168 4,029,330 3,479,204
Inter - co. bal-
ances .. 213,632
Final divs. . . 123,982 127,455 134,977
£10,409,727 £12,154,864 £11,317,457
Freehold, plant,
etc .. .. 1,152,477 1,423,575 1,413,309
Stocks . . 4,393,293 6,396,389 4,737,753
Debtors’ b a 1 - _ „„„
ances, etc. . . 3.753,796 3,466,776 4.007,383
Cash and de-
posits . . 856,047 868,124 1,071,273
Inter - cp. bal-
ances .. 254,114 3i,689
£10,409,727 £12,154,864 £11,317,457
* Including service and other provisions.
Completion of contracts, a better flow
of raw materials and brisker trade en-
abled stocks to be lowered by
£1,658,636 and £1,011,544 to be slashed
off the amount coming to trade creditors.
The tax-provision, etc., was reduced by
£550,126 and cash, etc., was strengthened
by £203,149. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£3,594,041)
was £432,379.
To obtain Sydney showrooms for the
products of subsidiaries, all the shares in
Edward Arnold, Ltd. —old-established
drapers in Oxford-street —were bought
since the close of accounts in exchange
for 130,158 f.-p. ss. ords. issued at a
premium of 7s. 4d. each. The drapery
business has been discontinued. Premises
in Melbourne were also recently bought
for similar purposes. Also one of the
original subsidiaries. New System Tele-
phones Pty., has “profitably disposed of
the telephone-rental section of its busi-
ness” to a newly-formed co., T. R. Ser-
vices Pty., in which Email and Telephone
Rentals, Ltd. (London) each hold a
half-interest.
The market expresses its confidence m
the future of the undertaking by pricing
the f.-p. ss. ords, at 15s. (12s. lOd. a
year ago) to return 4.1 p.c. in a 12£ p.c.
div basis The £1 6 p.c. prefs. at 235. sd.
yield 5.1 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£49 9s. 9d, prefs. and 12s. lid. ords.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
ONE of the city’s big department stores,
Foy’s has long been a good profit-
earner and dividend-payer, and seems
likely to remain sO, with both earnings
and distributions moving approximately
in step with economic trends and trade
activity.
For the last 14 years the retail trade,
a focal-point of consumption, has been
more-or-less in clover. Since 1939 the
size of the domestic market in Sydney
has increased by over 28 p.c., and, for
the most part, it has been largely sheltered
from overseas competition, while spend-
ing has been spurred and costs aggra-
vated by inflation (now substantially
curbed) and, for a while, by overfull
employment. At the same time Govern-
ment spending was, and still is, at a high
level. It all meant expanding turnover
and profit, despite numerous difficulties.
Then, in 1952, turnovers slackened,
margins narrowed, profits eased, and the
level of employment was threatened by
a temporary spate of imports and a
balance-of-payments crisis. The blow was
cushioned by import-restriction, easing of
bank-credit and continued high level of
export income. The picture changed
half-way through 1953, when redundant
stocks had been cleared, and there has
since been a substantial rise in the general
level of personal consumption, and there-
fore retail turnovers, which have been
aided by tax-concessions and a steadier
but still-rising level of operating costs.
For the year to Feb. 28 last, Foy’s net
earnings advanced by £21,974:
f Dividends
Pref. To Re— Re-
,Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
' £ £ £ £ £
1947.. 16,374 12* p.c.= 67,546 18,307 266,545
1948.. 910 16,374 12* „ „ 67,546 39,990 296,535
Profit sale assets, £2055 .. .. 298,590
1949.. 16,374 13J p.c.= 74,301 45,872 344,462
From inner reserves, £30,000 .. 374,462
Profit sale assets, £2342 .. .• 376,804
1950.. 16,874 13| p.c. = 74,301 37,679 414,483
Profit sale assets, £505 .. •• 414,989
1951.. 16,374 15 p.c. = 81.056 54,782 469,771
1952.. 957 16,374 12* „ „ 67.546 52,037 521,808
1953.. 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 40,782 562,590
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. •• 563,290
1954.. 167 16,374 12* p.c. = 67,546 49,247 612,537
The £133,167 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 21.6 p.c. on the £540,367 of ord.
capital as against 17.5, 22.1, 25.1, 20.7
and 22.2 p.c. back to 1949. It was written
after allowing an unstated amount for
taxation, £23,616 (up £1420) for depre-
ciation and sending £15,000 (up £5000)
to the staff-benefit fund, etc. Another
heartening feature was that the ratio of
exes, to gross profit dropped from 93.3
p.c. to 88.1 p.c., following a reduction in
the rate of co.-tax, steadier costs, and
tight hold upon controllable outgoings.
The cautious board lifted the div. from
10 p.c. to 12y p.c., making the average
distribution over the last decade Ylj p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: — ■
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref. .. .. £272,902 £272,902 £272,902
Ord. .. .. 540,367 540,367 540,367
Reserves .. .. 521,808 562,590 612,538
Overdraft . . .. 324,004 139,495
Sundry creditors* 285,545 356,793 310,775
Tax reserve .. 422,327 235,864 146,142
Final divs. .. 41,960 35,206 48,715
£2,408,913 £2,003,722 £2,070,934
Property .. .. 765,757 767,482 814,172
Plant, etc. * • 50,000 80,000 80,000
Stocks .. .. 1,308,559 847,427 975,507
Book debts .. 234,262 219,293 190,548
Cash, etc. .. 50,335 89,520 10.707
£2,408,913 £2,003,722 £2,070,934
* Includes internal provisions, etc. ( £102,483,
up £21,080), 1954.
The quickening pace of economic activity
is reflected in the net addition of £128,080
to stocks, which appear at the lower of
cost or market price, less depreciation.
To help meet the outlay, as well as clip
£46,018 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, reduce tax-commitments (down
£89,722) and add £46,690 to the book-
value of premises, the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £139,495 and drew
upon cash, etc., for £78,813.
Of the addition to freehold, £34,000
was on account of purchase of a pro-
perty in Church-street, Parramatta. The
trend of population in the metropolitan
area is away from the city to a steadily
expanding suburban perimeter; the
cost and time involved in travelling to
and from the city, and car-parking diffi-
culties, are driving suburban housewives
to do more of their shopping locally. So,
to maintain their volume of turnover, the
big department stores in the city are also
moving to the suburbs and opening
branches there.
The outlook for the current term is
bright. Retail turnovers for the first
quarter of 1954 are at record levels. The
public has plenty of money in its pocket,
hire-purchase and other credit is expand-
ing, perhaps a little too fast, the growth
in industrial production has more than
made good the ground lost in 1952, and
a little further relief from the burden of
taxation is promised. Though wage and
other costs may advance, competition
from imports will tend to keep the pace
moderate. Overall the pointers are in the
direction of buoyant trade.
At 435. 3d. (365. 3d. a year ago) the
f,-p. £1 ords, return 5.7 p.c. on a 12-j p.c.
div. basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 21s. also
yield 5.7 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£5 4s. 6d. prefs. and 425. Bd. ords.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
'T'O get these pastoral undertakings into
A perspective it is necessary to con-
sider a number of things. These include
the amount of capital to be fed* location
and size of holdings, risks of the business
—mainly seasons, prices and costs—-con-
dition of the finances and economic and
seasonal trends. And the average rather
than the immediate return is the only
fair basis on which to assess probable
investment value.
Q.N.P.’s £325,000 of capital is in
250,000 £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs., which
advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond that rate, and 600,000 ords. of
2s. 6d. each —the other 17s. 6d. a share
(£525,000) was written off in 1932 to
cover losses due to drought, anaemic
markets and other causes, which is grim
reminder of the risks inherent in this
class of undertaking.
The co.’s big leaseholds, aggregating
some 9200 square miles, are in the far-
west of Queensland and over the border
in the Territory ; and there are three
fattening coastal freeholds, totalling
45,000-odd acres, in the Gladstone, Nan-
ango and Kilcoy districts. A run of good
seasons and rising prices was interrupted
by dry-to-drought conditions in 1952,
when the profit dropped to about half the
1951 figure, and a couple of points were
chipped off the div., reducing it to 10
p.c. Last term Nature was kind, live-
stock sales were “maintained at satis-
factory prices,” the wool clip was heavier,
more lambs were marked and more
calves branded, and costs and taxation
were less troublesome. Also, another
windfall (amount unstated) was received
from J.O. profits on sale of war-time
wool stocks.
After setting aside something for taxa-
tion and other contingencies, but before
allowing for depreciation, net earnings
took a leap of £54,724, reaching a record
£109,366:
f -Dividends ,
Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
Dec., Profit. 12 p.c. 12 p.c. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ &
1960.. 98,110 30,000 9000 15,050 110,940
Unexplained addition, £5215 .. 116,155
1951.. 103,674 30,000 9,000 18,651 162,178
Unexplained addition, £2547 .. 164,725
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952.. 54,642 25,000 7,500 18,565 168,302
Unexplained addition, £4668 .. 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
1953.. 109,366 37,500 11,250 22,384 211,202
Deducting provisions for depreciation
(shown as written off in the table), the
net amount available for distribution was
£86,982 (up £50,905), equal to 26.7 p.c. on
capital (pref. and ord. combined) as
against 11.1, 26.1, 25.5, 13.9 and 10.3 p.c.
back to 1948. The distribution was lifted
from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c., of which 9 p.c.
was called bonus, and included a special
3 p.c. to commemorate the Royal visit.
Over the last five years distributions'
averaged 11.8 p.c. compared with a steady
6 p.c. for the preceding seven years. The
28 years before that were dry ones.
Finances are in excellent trim, as the
large holding of cash and shares, etc.
(together up £109,898) shows:
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £260.000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 75,000 75,000 75,000
Reserves .. 162,178 168,302 211,202
Creditors, etc.* ~ 376,548 347,217 412,407
Final div. .. 39,000 32,500 48,750
£902,726 £873,019 £997,359
Freeholds .. 27,903 27,903 27,903
Leaseholds .. 90,997 113,305 142,656
Plant . .. 64,222 63,259 68,370
Livestock .. 188,884 157,036 146,787
Wool . .. 2,840 1,680
Stores . . .. 34,138 51,897 51,580
Debtors . . .. 38,376 9,316 522
Shareholdings .. 42,254 72,219
Cash, etc. .. 458,206 405,709 485,642
£902,726 £873,019 £997,359
* Includes provision for contingencies and taxation.
The “Wild Cat” would not be sur-
prised if the larger part of the big credi-
tors, etc., item (up £65,190) consisted of


i
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
La vina
range
J |[|» Ladies’
17 - j ewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £14/15/-.
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
from only £12/15/-.
<JLr Every LAVINA has a non-
magnetic escapement and a
17-jewel led movement.
LAVMMA
WATCHES
i'iwc 4 iiiiiw
Between
Ourselves
h
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 15. A., B.Sc.
HUP mom SAFE!
SANDERS!
4jscefll£%
Correspondence. Idvolcm.
•tatement*. etc.. Hied in the
“Sander*" con be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Price* and far-
ther tntnrmatlo*
wpoo application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon A Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Ausb)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
£cUUi In ihc
jFdiiufe
We can all admire the spirit of generosity. It is
among the best of all human qualities—and it is not
confined to the mere dispensing of gifts.
Generosity is an attitude of mind. It makes us
appreciate the other fellow’s view. It says ‘ Well
done” to the man who succeeds by his own honest
effort. It encourages those who are struggling up.
And, essentially, it assists those in need.
Now, I feel that the time has come when we
should be trying to channel our generous instincts into
everything we do for Australia.
We can afford to be generous, here in a rich land
blessed with good seasons. We can be generous in our
dealings with one another; to those of other nations
who require the food we can produce in abundance.
I trust my meaning is clear:
He is a generous man who works well at his trade
or profession, considering the welfare not only of
himself, but of those alongside him whose employment
and comforts depend on the industrious use of his
hands and brain.
He is a generous farmer who helps his neighbour
in good times as well as bad; who, busy in his own
task, can still enter into community movements and
offer his services in a citizen cause.
You see, generosity comes of the heart. And I
believe the time to apply it in a national way, is now,
because this country is entering an era that promises
to outshine anything we have known in prosperity.
What we have in Australia has come to us out of
Divine generosity. The soil, the sea, the sunny skies;
the means of making them serve our wants and provide
our necessities.
We can match all this with the spirit we infuse
into our own personality as a people.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rate*.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
provisions for taxation and
other contingencies.
How the current term is likely
to pan out is difficult to say at
the moment. The runs were dry
when the books closed ; sporadic
storms have since given some
relief, but substantial falls are
needed to ensure a good season,
especially on the far nor’-western
properties. The imponderable is
prices likely to be obtained for
meat in the export market when
bulk buying by the U.K. under
the 15-year agreement (1952-
1967) ceases and operations revert
to a trader-to-trader basis at the
end of September next, A
minimum-price system will then
come into force, under which the
U.K. Government will make a
deficiency payment to the Aus-
tralian Government if average
prices realised in the U.K. fall
short of agreed minimum prices.
Those in the industry impatiently
await announcement of what
these agreed minimum prices will
be, and of the basis and method
of distribution of any deficiency
payments.
Meanwhile the market prices
the f.-p. 2s, 6d. ords. at 4s. 2d.
(ss. a year ago) to return 9 p.c.
on a 15 p.c, distribution. On
the same basis the £1 prefs. at
365. yield 8.3 p.c. On an all-
round 10 p.c. distribution, the
returns would be 5.5 p.c. prefs.
and 6 p.c, ords. Net tangible
cover is 425. lid. prefs. and
9s. 6d. ords.
Takuapa Valley Tin
/~\WING to the continued fall
in the price of tin, the 1953
profit of this Sydney-controlled
Siamese dredger (paid capital
£250,000 in £1 shares) was
£25,829 lighter at £14,124, or
5.6 p.c. on capital as against
16 p.c. for the previous year.
However, two divs. of Is. each
were paid—total 10 p.c., com-
pared with 15 p.c, and 20 p.c.
for the two preceding terms—
the last one in May, 1953 ; no
distribution has been made
since;
Value
Treated, t. 0..
Year, c.y. lb. Profit. Div.*
Dee. 31. ’OOO. c.y. £ £
(9.4%)
1949 . . 3355 0.22 15,118 21,222
(12i%)
1950 .. 2990 0.43 189,950 31,250
(20%)
1951 . . 2755 0.29 97,501 50,000
(15%)
1952 .. 2681 0.26 39,954 37,500
(10%)
1953 . . 2195 0.32 14,124 25,000
* Percentage in sterling.
Because of the slightly richer
ground handled, the quantity of
tin ore recovered was only 2,14
tons less at 310.42 tons. But the
average price realised was £160.6
lighter at £329.7 per ton, while
mine working costs were reduced
by £90.3, leaving them at £302.0
per ton. The allowance for de-
preciation was £18,379 (up
£6850).
For the first five months of
1954, 735,000 c.y. of 0.371 b.
ground was handled for 124.0
tons tin ore, and the price of the
metal has strengthened since the
year began. The London average
spot-price of tin (metallic) for
1953 was £8730.7 (down £8233.8)
per ton. During 1954 the figure
advanced from £8654.7 for
January to £8720.3 for March,
and stood at £8755 at July 1.
No. 1 dredge, which has been
the chief profit-earner, ceased
operations on February 15, 1954,
having treated all payable ground
in its old (Plaiwah) area. It is
now being dismantled prepara-
tory to re-erection on a new
pontoon on the co.’s northern
area, where 35,000,000 c.y. of
0.521 b. ground awaits treatment.
No. 2 machine, which only
resumed digging in July, 1953,
and didn’t enter virgin ground
till two months later, has
955.000 c.y, of 0.401 b. and
640.000 c.y. of approximately
0.211 b. ground ahead of it in its
present area.
Estimated cost of removal of
No. 1 dredge is not mentioned,
but at December 31 last there
were cash and investments total-
ling £249,943 and £94,524 in
stores, debtors, etc,, to meet
current liabilities of £17,967.
Four main factors affecting the
investment prospects of the
scrip are (1) whether recovery
values in the northern area will
live up to bore values, and there
is no sound reason to suppose
that they will not; (2) the level
of costs, the recent steep rise in
which appears to have been
arrested; (3) the level of
demand; and (4) whether the
proposed international tin agree-
ment comes into force.
At the moment a high propor-
tion of the world output of tin
is being taken from the open
market under contracts by the
U.S. Government, whose new
stockpile programme is probably
more important as an economic
than a strategic move. The long*
term outlook for the metal is one
of surplus production, the effects
of which the International Tin
Council is seeking to mitigate by
a proposed international agree-
ment for the regulation of pro-
duction and creation of a buffer-
stock pool. Though the U.S. has
refused to sign the proposed
agreement its attitude is one of
benevolent neutrality. A fort-
night, ago prospects of agreement
between the remaining consumer
and producer countries looked
bright.
Takuapa’s f.-p. £1 shares
fetched 17s, 6d. each on the
Sydney market last week as
against 265. a year ago.
Mt. Isa Uranium Field
During the last month or so
there has been a rush to peg
prospective uranium-bearing
leases on the Mt. Isa-Cloncurry
field (N.Q.), which is expected to
rival the Rum Jungle area (N.T.).
Promising indications are re-
ported by Northern Uranium
Development, N.L., and
Uranium Mines, N.L., on their
jointly-owned leases (865 acres)
on the White Blow area, about
eight miles n.-w. of Mt. Isa (Q.).
These leases are divided into
three sections, on one of which,
known as Flat Tyre, “representa-
tive” samples assayed 0.32 p.c.,
0.88 p.c. and 0.89 p.c. uranium
oxide. On the second section,
lying to the east, “individual”
samples showed 0.55 p.c., 0.59
p.c. and 1.00 p.c. uranium oxide.
The third, or central, section
adjoins two areas held by other
groups and on which “strong
radioactivity” has been dis-
closed. It is believed that the
lode enters this central section
at shallow^depth. In addition the
two cos. hold leases covering 150
acres in the Leichhardt area,
about 20 miles north of Mt. Isa.
Nothing is said about the
nature or composition of the
uranium-bearing deposits re-
ferred to, or whether the samples
were from surface outcrops, or
underground development, or
both. Much will depend upon
whether values are fairly evenly
distributed throughout the lode,
or whether they are too patchy
to warrant large-scale develop-
ment, as has already happened
on some leases in the N.T. which
showed promising early indica-
tions.
A jointly owned development
co.. Western Queensland De-
velopment, is being formed by
Northern Uranium Development
and Uranium Mines to
thoroughly test the White Blow
and Leichhardt leases. If
enough pay-ore is indicated by
preliminary development, a new
operating co. is to be set up to
work the property.
Sydney-controlled North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp., which
has abandoned some of its
options in the Northern Terri-
tory, has now taken options over
half-a-dozen leases near Mt.
Isa, where very favorable sur-
face indications are reported, but
where no thorough prospecting
or mining has yet been done.
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.,
in conjunction with Western
Mining Corp., Ltd., is also about
to test leases in the Cloncurry
area.
Meanwhile, the market has
expressed its hopes by lifting its
bid for Northern Uranium’s ss.
shares, paid to 2s. each, from
6s. to 10s. and then shortening
it to Bs. 6d. over the last
couple of weeks. During the
same period Uranium Mines’
ss. shares, also paid to 2s. each,
advanced from 9s. to 14s. 6d.
North Australian Uranium
Corp.’s ss. shares, paid to 2s. 6d.,
rose from 3s. lOd. to 7s. Id.
Adelaide-controlled Uranium
Development and Prospecting,
N.L., reports discovery of pitch-
blende at a depth of 50ft. on its
Adelaide River lease (N.T.),
over which it recently acquired
an option for £llO,OOO. An
assay of leached material
showed 13 p.c. uranium
oxide, which, of course, is an
exceptionally rich specimen
sample, and cannot be taken as
an indication of the average
value for any considerable ton-
nage. Also a winze, sunk to 11ft.
in the floor of the open-cut, is in
“rich” torbernite ore for the
complete 2ft. width of the ore
channel. Pitchblende is one of
the uranite group of minerals,
which, to date, has yielded most
of the world’s commercial
uranium, especially in Canada
and in Belgian Congo. Torbernite
is one of the most abundant
secondary uranium minerals,
commonly present in the out-
crops of uranium deposits. A
lot more development work will
need to be done before the com-
mercial significance of these dis-
closures is known.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Gay ’Nineties Ball at the Palais
de Danse organised by the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital attracted 1200. Copies of the
Gay ’Nineties gazette, the “Fourth of
July Extra,” were sold by pretty girls in
black-and-white Can Can costumes.
Pillars were decked with posters depict-
ing characters of the Gay ’Nineties era,
and each table was decorated with a
tall gaily colored and spangled high-
buttoned boot as worn by the Can Can
girls. One of the hits of the evening was
the Barber Shop Quartette, singing old-
time songs.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
received by the president of the auxiliary
and of the ball-committee, Mrs. John
Middleton, whose husband, Colonel
Middleton, presented her Excellency with
a mid-Victorian posy in a silver holder.
Lady Brooks wore a lovely gown of
white tulle mounted on shell-pink taffeta,
the very wide skirt banded with
guipure lace. Mrs. Middleton, also in
white tulle, covered hers with dew-drop
sequins. Lady Murdoch, president of
the Children’s Hospital, wore a tiny mink
tippet with her dove-grey chiffons.
Mrs. Henry Stebbins chose a full-skirted
gown of shocking-pink tulle.
Mrs. O. B. Gains, secretary of the
auxiliary, wore an orchid nylon frock
mounted on iridescent taffeta; violets
were massed at the back of the waist.
Mrs. Alan Plowman’s full-skirted organ-
die frock had a strapless bodice of cello-
phane-straw. One of the most striking
gowns was worn by Mrs. Angus Jones. Of
grey-blue satin, it had a pleated inset in
the bodice of orchid-pink satin to match
the panel at the back of the skirt, and was
trimmed with hand-made pink satin roses
edged with tiny pearls.
* * *
The Dorchester was the setting for a
cheery late-afternoon party given by the
U.S. Naval Attache, Capt. Robert
Macpherson, and Mrs. Macpherson, and
the Assistant Naval Attache, Lieut. Robert
B. Brumsted, and Mrs. Brumsted,
in honor of the recently - arrived
U.S. Senior Assistant Naval Attache,
Commander Samuel R. Sanders,
whose wife and three children will
follow later. Poinsettias, holly-berries
and foliage formed the decorations.
Receiving her guests, Mrs. Macpherson
wore a slim-fitting frock of black velvet
with two lovely clips at the V-neckline.
Mrs. Brumsted’s choice was a full-
skirted frock of shimmering rose-pink
taffeta. Among the guests were Rear-
Admiral Denis Pritchard and Mrs.
Pritchard, Lieut.-General Sir Sydney
Rowell and Lady Rowell, Commodore
and Mrs, H. J. Buchanan, Air-Vice-
Marshal Eric Hewitt and Mrs. Hewitt,
Air-Vice-Marshal V. Hancock and Mrs.
Hancock and Air-Commodore D.
Charlton and Mrs. Charlton. The U.S.
Military Attache, Col. John Middleton,
and his wife were there, as were Col.
John Sullivan, U.S. Air Force Attache,
and Mrs. Sullivan and Major and Mrs.
James Clarke.
There were some pretty hats. That
worn by Mrs. Henry Stebbins was of
emerald-green silk-straw with one red
rose set on top of the crown ; Mrs. W.
W. Killough’s was of turquoise-blue
velvet and was covered with gold and
mother-gf-pearl sequins. Mrs. Harold
Holt wore a tiny red-chiffon toque, Mrs.
John Reilly one of emerald chiffon, and
Mrs. Keith Morrison’s black velvet toque
had the crown covered in gold braid
in a lattice design and was finished with
a black osprey.
* ☆ ☆
This year’s Independence Day
luncheon in the Town Hall organ-
ised by the Australian-American
Association was notable for the humor-
enlivened speeches. Minister of the In-
terior Wilfred Kent Hughes addressed
the assemblage as “Buddies and Cob-
bers,” and Sir Leslie McConnan said he
preferred Independence Day to any other
of America’s national days because he
didn’t have to eat pumpkin-pie. Presi-
dent of the association Sir John Latham
was accompanied by Lady Latham.
Mrs. Kent Hughes was at the official
table with Lady McConnan. Cabinet
Minister Harold Holt and Mrs, Holt
were there; so were Arthur Calwell and
Lord Mayor Solly. Others present were
Mrs. John Mack, Mrs. Angus Jones,
Mrs. W. W. Killough and her son Walter
(he is spending his vacation from a U.S.
University with his parents), Mrs.
Edward Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. Peter
Cox, Mrs. Ken Macdougall, Mrs. W.
McDermott, and the Eric Cottrells.
☆ ☆ ☆
Prelude to Grand National week was
the dinner-dance held at Giro’s by the
Blood Horse Breeders’ Association to
raise funds for the Veterinary Science
Institute. Chairman of the V.R.C., Sir
Chester Manifold, Was with Lady Mani-
fold, whose dove-grey laces were worn
with a matching Arctic-fox stole. Mrs.
Graham Godfrey wore a gown of silver-
grey satin and Mrs. C, Creswick an
Empire gown of old-gold satin with the
high waist emphasised with a black
satin folded cummerbund, A haze-blue
satin ballerina frock embroidered, with
opalescent tear-drop pearls was worn by
Mrs. A. G, Silk. Mrs, Tony Luxton’s
turquoise-blue tulle was embroidered in
silver, with silver lace veiling the strap-
less bodice. ’
Mrs. Trevor Clarke wore pearl-grey
self-patterned chiffon contrasted with
mignonette-green. Lady Clarke’s Empire
gown was of self-spotted gold satin bro-
cade. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s shell-pink
chiffons were given an unusual drape
effect; Mrs. Jack Steele’s full-skirted
gown of leaf-brown tulle was delicately
latticed with gold thread. Mrs. A. E.
Hotchkiss’s short white Venice lace frock
had the pattern outlined with diamente.
Mrs. Maurice Nathan wore over her
white satin-brocade gown a three-cor-
nered Italian white wool-lace shawl em-
broidered with sequins. Mrs. Frank
Foley allied a long tunic-style beaded
top with a bouffant black tulle skirt.
Mrs. Malcolm McArthur wore sequin-
trimmed midnight-blue tulle.
Mrs. Charles Burge graduated in
medicine in Holland and came out here
to make her home with her husband,
Capt. Charles Burge, and five children of
a previous marriage. Capt. Burge, who
won the D.S.O. for his work in the
sinking of Bismarck, was an equerry to
the late King George VI. Mrs. Burge
has just returned from England, where
she placed some of her children in
school; she also had a reunion with her
mother and two brothers in Rotterdam.
She works for the Mission to Seamen,
and helps new Dutch migrants in becom-
ing assimilated here.
A dreary, very cold day for the Grand
National Hurdle meeting at Flemington,
so tweeds were first favorite. Against a
background of the ever-popular char-
coal and dark-greys were the bright-reds,
pinks, greens and yellows. There were
bold checks and tiny checks, and there
were striped tweeds. Hats were very
small, and there were many white ones
worn.
Lady Manifold chose a fitted tailored
coat of mustard-yellow tweed and a small
velvet pillbox, Mrs. Geoffrey Fairbairn’s
attractive coat and frock were of rasp-
berry-and-black woven tweed.' The long
coat had the edges lined and lapelled
with black Persian-lamb to match her
tiny cap. One of the most charming out-
fits was worn by Mrs. Bing Molyneux:
a fitted coat, with flaring skirt, of ruby-
red velvet, the tiny cap edged with grey-
squirrel fur to match her tiny pillow-
muff. Mrs. Mervyn Barrett’s suit, with
its new reefer jacket, was of white-and-
grey patterned tweed, with lapels of pale-
tangerine to match her sweater; her tiny
hat was of pale-beige melusine.
STBNET
The most feted girl during the past
week has undoubtedly been Miss Eliza-
beth Northcott, daughter of the Gover-
nor, Sir John Northcott, whose marriage
to her father’s former A.D.C., Squadron-
Leader Russell Nash, is to tak£ place
tomorrow (Thursday) afternoon at St.
Stephen’s Presbyterian Church, Mac-
quarie-street. Officiating at her wedding
will be the Rev. Gordon Powell, who
taught her scripture when she was a
student at St. Margaret’s School, Mel-
bourne, and she will be attended by her
sister, Mrs. Donald Coburn, and her two
little nieces, Margaret and Christine. The
reception is to be held at Government
House, and this will fulfil a girlish dream
of Miss Northcott, who when she first
arrived there from Melbourne eight years
ago thought to herself “What a beauti-
ful place to be married from!”
At perhaps the largest pre-wedding
“tea” to be seen in Sydney, 1300 women
flocked to the Trocadero to shower their
good wishes on Miss Northcott and to
make her a present of a Georgian-repro-
duction tea-service, a cheque and a
morocco-bound book with the names
of the 140 women’s organisations who
were represented. The National Coun-
cil of Women arranged the function, and
its president, Mrs. John Metcalfe, who
made the presentation, said that Miss
Northcott had won a place in the hearts
of all by her leadership, friendship and
interest over the years. Speaking briefly
on behalf of all the women’s church-
groups, Mrs. H. K. W. Mowll said that
especially to be admired were Miss
Northcott’s unassuming simplicity and
devotion to duty.
Mrs. G. P. Stuckey, representing the
schoolteachers, schoolgirls and University
women-graduates, said that the mere
presence of 1300 women in town on a
Monday afternoon was unassailable
evidence of the regard in which Miss
Northcott was held. Further speeches of
appreciation were made by Miss D. E.
Gardner, representing the trained nurses ;
Miss Jean Arnot (business and profes-
sional women); Mrs. E. D. Bennett (the
R.S.L. women’s groups); and Mrs. Noel
Thompson (the country women).
☆ * ☆
Canada’s national day—July 1 —was
celebrated at the Pickwick Club, with
Senior Trade-counsellor Croft and Mrs.
Croft receiving the guests. It was an
animated and representative assembly.
Prominent was Professor Harry Messel,
the Canadian-born nuclear-physicist who
had that day announced a new atomic
discovery at Sydney University. But he
wasn’t so strong on history. When asked
why Canada’s national day was July 1
he confessed that he was stumped. [Re-
search note: The Dominion of Canada
came into being on July 1, 1867, and
July 1 is celebrated as Dominion Day.]
☆ ☆ - ☆
The Down Town Strutters’ Ball,
organised by the junior sub-committee
for the Black and White Ball and in aid
of the Royal Blind Society, brought about
200 of Sydney’s youthful smart-set to
Prince’s in the gilded garb of the 1920’s
and in mood to match. Every quickstep
turned into a Charleston, and it was really
remarkable how skilfully it was done by
the youth of the 1950’s. President of the
committee Beth Campbell wore a knee-
length dress of white satin with a V-neck,
and three rows of white fringe round the
skirt (if it could be called a skirt). Jill
Campbell wore a similar dress in pale-
blue satin. Among those whose mothers
had preserved genuine creations of the
’twenties and so could lend them to their
daughters were Mrs. Michael Jones, who
wore white torchon lace over pale-blue,
and Mrs. Warwick Lindsay, whose black
taffeta dress was covered by an elaborately
beaded dark-blue coat. Mrs. Dick
Harford’s dress was pink taffeta with a
“skirt” of three-tiered flounces. Jennifer
Chapman wore white lace with floating
panels. , Pamela Jennings in black velvet
and long strings of pearls almost “stopped
the show” with her expert Charleston, and
Janine Craig won first-prize for the best
dress in black lace and ostrich-feathers.
☆ ft it
“Americans are very careful drivers,”
said Mr. H. Escher when he showed his
film “American Journey” to the
Australian - American Association
(Women’s Section) on Thursday last, for
his little British car didn’t get a scratch
during the 14,000 miles he and his wife
drove it across America. “But it got
more than a scratch as soon as I got back
to Wollongong,” he added. Many
American members of the association
revived nostalgic memories of their homes
after seeing Mr. Escher’s color-film of the
U.S. with its magnificent scenery, amazing
system of super-highways and its play-
grounds. At the meeting Mrs. Florence
Taylor received about 150 guests, who
included several inter-State members visit-
ing Sydney; Mrs. Cresswell (Perth), Mrs.
R. Scott and Mrs. F. D. Blacklock, also
Mrs. Noel Osborne, whose husband is
New Guinea’s chief geologist.
Beverley Macdonald will play the part
of Kate Hardcastle in the production of
“She Stoops to Conquer” by the St.
Andrews College Dramatic Society during
the mid-July University Drama Festival.
Beverley, a graduate in Arts, has been
proised for her work in various Uni-
versity productions, notably as Eliza in
“Pygmalion” and Hermia in “Midsummer
Night’s Dream.” Interested in radio
work, she is also likely to be among those
valuable to television when it arrives
here.
Definition from America of the differ-
ence between a psychotic and a neurotic:
A psychotic is a person who thinks that
two and two make five. A neurotic is a
person who knows that two and two make
four but can’t bear it.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lovers of Gilbert and Sullivan will have
opportunity of hearing “Patience” at the
Conservatorium tomorrow (Thursday),
July 8, and the following two nights at
8 p.m. The comic-opera is being produced
for the G. and S. Society by Evelyn
Gardiner, and Frank Johnstone is the
music-director. Proceeds are in aid of the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children,
and among those filling the major roles
will be Lois Bills, Victor Charles, Florence
Hyde, Marie O'Farrell, Alma Maguire,
Monte Miller, Noel Pelly, Shirley Trent,
John Wirth and Peter Wirth.
☆ * ☆
Although Suzanne Banco, the world-
famous soprano, is the first Belgian to
be brought to Australia as a visiting
artist, music in Australia owes quite a
lot to that little nation, for Henri Ver-
bruggen, first director of the Sydney Con-
servatorium, was a Belgian, and Eugene
Goossens, the present conductor of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, is of
Belgian descent. The Consul-General for
Belgium, Mr. Felix Jansen, said this at
the reception held for Madame Banco
by the auxiliary of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, and he mentioned also that
it was in Brussels that Madame Melba,
Australia’s greatest artist, made her
successful debut.
Mrs. Harry Evans (pianist Beatrice
Tange) was among those who attended
Madame Banco’s first appearance with
the Symphony Orchestra during the
tveek. Mrs. Evans has been back in
Sydney for a little over a month after
studying for 12 months with Walter
Gieseking in Germany. While in Europe
Mrs. Evans attended the Salzburg Festi-
val and herself gave radio recitals in
Paris, Rome and Saarbrucken, as well as
one radio interview over a women’s ses-
sion in German, which she said was a
much more trying experience.
☆ ☆ £r
Anyone who cares to listen will notice
that there is one song in which dancers
invariably join when it is played by the
orchestra, no matter how sedately quiet
they may have been during other numbers.
The fact that they can never resist this
one must have some social significance
surely. The song? “Diamonds Are a
Girl’s Best Friend.”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
The Opera at Home
Tier upon tier, five storeys
high, crowded from the floor to
the far dim ceiling so that not a
single seat is left unoccupied, the
immense hollow horseshoe of
the Teatro Communale here in
Florence soars in a magnificence
of architecture and theatrical
culture.
There must be at least 5000
people in this colossal room;
there may be 10,000. It is about
five times as big as the Theatre
Royal in Sydney and, like a tall
cliff honeycombed with caves, it
is extraordinarily like the ancient
Colosseum in Rome. One minor
disadvantage is that if you are
not among the grey waterfall of
summer dresses and summer
suits at the back, or in the stalls
full of glittering women, white
shirt-fronts and white-uniformed
naval-officers —if you have a seat
at the side —you cannot see the
stage. One stands up, cranes for-
ward over the next row, and
peers at right-angles.
This is the Maggiore—the
Florentine festival of music and
opera which begins in May and
finishes whenever everyone is
exhausted; about the end of
June. Tomorrow night there will
be an open-air concert in one’s
own Place of the Most Holy
Annunciation —right under the
boarding-house windows, be-
tween the church with the
miracle-picture painted by an
angel, the museum of Etruscan
art, and the maternity hospital.
Tonight it is “The Girl of the
Golden West” by Puccini.
Exactly what this curious work
is about I don’t know. But when
the audience hisses like one
5000-headed snake to silence the
applause for the overture, and
the 100 fiddles and trombones
subdue themselves a little for
the Indian squaws to shuffle in
and sit down in a corner of the
courtyard and for strange cries
of Ullo! lllo! Hallorr! to
sound offstage while the cow-
boys with shiny silver pistols,
brand-new lariats and very Ital-
ian whiskers troop in—well, it
appears reasonably clear that the
piece is Puccini’s impression of
the American Wild West. f
Indeed, a bad hombre is
shortly to be lynched. He rushes
in singing Hillo! Ullor! —appar-
ently the American custom of
occasionally saying “Hullo” was
as fascinating to Puccini as its
pronunciation is mysterious to
the entire nation of Italians—he
rushes in, this bad-man, they
throw him to the ground, they
jerk him to his feet, they brandish
their silver-cardboard Colts at
him, they string the lariat about
his neck ... but he weeps and
they forgive him.
The orchestra makes a noise
like a horse. A real horse walks
sombrely across the courtyard—
not singing—picks his way deli-
cately through the Indian squaws,
and vanishes.
Another bad-man is shot and
lynched —or would be, but for
the fact that, just when he is
weeping his most melodiously,
in rushes the heroine, the girl of
the golden west, and “Stand back
fellas, or else”— — she sings :n
radiant Italian, brandishing her
silver revolver. She is a Idvely
great golden-haired girl in a red
skirt and white blouse and high-
heeled boots, and whenever she
sings her blouse bursts out of her
skirt. She tucks it in with one
hand, waves her gun in the
other, and sings with her whole
being.
The hero, who is a fine, flash-
ing young tenor, comes in next
carrying a saddle from the horse
that crossed the stage, and sings
about “Mister Johnston,” whom
I take to be the proprietor of the
saloon where all this is taking
place (a noble big baritone in a
frock-coat and top-hat). Mister
Johnston sings back to him.
Apparently to repel an immi-
nent attack by Injuns, or else to
lynch somebody, everybody
shouts Hillo ! Ullor ! and departs
rapidly offstage, with ropes and
rifles, leaving the hero alone. He
appears to rob the till. Certainly
he is singing in a very sinister
way until the golden girl comes
in again, and then he sings of
love. So does she.
It is the end of Act 1, It is also
enough about the plot. But I
must at least mention the scene
from Act 2 when the hero lies
wounded and bleeding and tune-
ful in the golden girl’s shack,
while she and Mister Johnston
play poker to decide whether or
not she shall hand him over to
be lynched ; and when, Mister
Johnston melodiously producing
a full-hand, she pretends to faint
and, while he is her a
glass of brandy, whisks an ace
from her pretty garter, surrepti-
tiously adds it to the three aces
she is already holding, and
warbles at him like a triumphant
nightingale.
It is a curious work to be see-
ing in Italy, amidst the palaces
of the Medici and the sculpture
of Donatello ; it is hardly Puc-
cini at his best. But it is alive ;
it is from the heart of the people ;
it is magnificent. At every
interval there are at least twelve
curtain-calls. At the end there
are twenty. They stand, on their
seats and they shout “Bravo!
Bravo!” The golden girl palpi-
tates like an orange ; she bows,
she retires, and again and again
they call her back. Bravo!
-—Douglas Stewart (Florence).
* ❖ ♦>
Susskind and Suzanne Danco
The Belgian lyric soprano,
soloist with the Sydney Orchestra
under Walter Susskind, revealed
in her first number —“Deh
Vieni” from “The Marriage of
Figaro”—a fine-drawn voice,
pure in tone, with a particularly
low register, able to swell to
fortissimo in high head notes
with apparent ease. The Mozart
singing was serene ; the singer
completely relaxed.
The second choice was not so
fortunate: Ravel’s “Schehera-
zade,” in which the writing for
the voice is as dull and negative
as the orchestral score is positive
and rich.
The chief orchestral work was
Richard Strauss’s “A Hero’s
Life,” which became a tour de
force under Susskind’s dynamic
urging. In the Battlefield section
the conductor became such a bel-
ligerent that it wouldn’t have
been surprising if he’d suddenly
swapped his baton for a bazooka
and helped the brasses to blast
the enemies of Mr. Strauss.
Vaughan Williams’s Fantasia
on a Theme by the 16th-century
English composer Thomas Tallis,
the finest example of contem-
porary writing for strings alone,
was brought to glowing life by
playing of the highest standard.
In it, too, the incumbent of the
No. 1 desk in each choir gave full
proof in solo work that his
appointment was justified.
The other offering was the
Hamilton Harty arrangement of
Handel’s “Water Music” Suite,
in which the orchestra gave a
hitch to its bell-bottomed pants
and joyously romped through the
sprightly rhythms as they fol-
lowed George I’s barge up the
Thames.
A.B.C. Competitions
There was the usual array of
fresh young talent at the Vic-
torian finals of this year’s A.B.C.
concerto and vocal competitions
at Melbourne Town Hall, but
there was more of it in the in-
strumental division than in the
vocal.
There were no potential
Melbas and Brownlees, though
Jennifer Eddy aired a nice
soprano, true on the note but
without much feeling, in the
Mad Scene from “Lucia.” Max-
well Chinn, a young Chinese
singer, made an assault on
“Frederico’s Lament” from the
opera “L’Arlesiana” of Cilea,
but there was insufficient body in
his tenor to carry the distance.
Fay Rosefield attacked the
Brahms Pianoforte Concerto No.
1 in D minor with astonishing
ease and abandon and a gaiety
of approach which one usually
expects only from the most sea-
soned virtuoso. She sounded like
a foregone conclusion, but the
judges chose the young pianist
Maxwell Shepherd for the Com-
monwealth finals in Sydney.
Shepherd played the first
movement of Khachaturian's
piano concerto in a remarkably
scintillating manner. His con-
trol of the keyboard in a long
“Here’s a wheel!”
and complicated solo passage
was the technical highlight of
the evening.
“Thanks for the Memory”
Sydney Palladium has come
out with a second edition of
“Thanks for the Memory,” the
show with which the theatre
“opened” when it switched from
films to vaudeville. Actually,
however, the current bill con-
sists of the pickings of three or
four recent shows —Janos and
Bogyo, the acrobats who do in-
credible things with an air of
amused indifference; Lloyd
Nairn, who does equally incred-
ible things in the juggling busi-
ness ; Alan Clive, who brings a
lot of wit and talent to his im-
personations; and Toni Lamond,
who brings a lot of fife and
looks to her warblings.
From the original bill there
are Jim Gerald and Morry Barl-
ing casting a pale-blue mist over
the evening, and Queenie Paul,
Beryl Meekin and Millie Han-
sen, who revive so many
memories so effectively that they
pretty near bring the house
down.
& &
“Hot Ice”
The ice which now occupies
the stage at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, is being warmed-up by a
variety of entertainers, including
Auntie Di and Uncle Jo, the
Hobohemians, an English ice-
xylophonist named Reg Rad-
cliffe, Alice Farrar, Jimmy
Carter and Pat Gregory, Aus-
tralia’s First Lady of the Knife-
edge.
It is a wonder the ice doesn't
melt altogether when Jimmy
Elder, speed-skating champion
of Scotland, explodes upon it.
The orchestra has such con-
fidence in him that, when he
charges the footlights after
jumping a dozen sword-blades
held by the ice-lovelies and goes
into reverse in a shower of
cracked ice a few inches above
its head, it just goes on playing.
Alice Farrar and Pat. Gregory
bring grace as well as pace to the
frenzied business, Kenny Lamb
brings knock-about humor,
Britta Rahlem, a Swedish-
American, brings beauty, and
Terry Scanlon brings forced
humor to the mike as compere.
♦> ♦> *l*
“Ned Kelly”
This production —by the Mar-
lowe Society and the M.U.D.C.
at Melbourne University’s Union
Theatre —seems to have been an
attempt to introduce some
modern improvements on the
original production by Doha
Ribush of Douglas Stewart’s
drama.
Anything more out of relation
with the realism of the play than
the symbolical representations of
Aaron Sherritt’s hut, the bank at
Jerilderie and Ma Jones’s Hotel
at Glenrowan could scarcely be
imagined, unless it was the
Oriental music which would
have sounded more in place in a
Turkish harem.
The individual acting of Wyn
Roberts as Ned Kelly and Don
Sist as Joe Byrne carried the
show through the awkward
moments of the crowd-scenes,
which were very badly managed.
Alexander Lojkine was effective
as the informer Sherritt, but it
was difficult to think of him as
the friend of the poetical Joe
Byrne.
The final scene, where Ned in
all bis armor is brought to naught
by a charge of buckshot, was
the only three minutes of unified
drama in the whole night, and it
was effective mainly because
there were fewer bad actors in it.
The dramatist’s intention came
through best in the dignified act-
ing of Wyn Roberts.
“The Guardsman”
Canberra Rep. is currently
amusing itself and its audiences
with Molnar’s “The Guards-
man.” It is cleverly produced by
director Anne Godfrey Smith
and Ralph Wilson, but the sets
in the first and third acts could
be better, and so could the light-
ing.
Lloyd Thomson makes a good
study of the Actor, and per-
haps too much of a good
thing of the Guardsman, Beth
Whitten, as his wife, is sure and
serene, though a little too severe
in places. Margaret Topham,
Frances Rose and Terry Juliff
give brilliant support; George
Ogilvie underplays a difficult role
with commendable self-efface-
ment.
“Top of the BUI”
The second edition of “Top
of the Bill” (Phillip Street
Theatre, Sydney) has many funny
scenes: Margo Lee heads a
breakfast-family who talk only,
with radio-moronic solemnity,
of patent foods ; and David Nett-
heim is properly downcast as
the Sabine woman missed out
of the Roman programme.
But malice is not automatically
funny. Sydney abounds in tar-
gets which deserve whole broad-
sides of ridicule; why pick
those which don’t? Whatever
their foibles, the jewelled com-
mittee behind the National
Opera have worked like blazes
to provide something the city
needs. If they must be mocked
let it at least be with humor and
not shallow cruelty.
Artbursts
Although A. D. and Amalie
Colquhoun exhibit the same
viewpoint in their joint show at
Melbourne Athenaeum, and
apply it to a similar range of sub-
ject-matter, there is much more
variety in their pictures than in
the average exhibition in which
dozens of artists are all striving
to be different. This applies more
to their landscapes than to their
portraits. There is a suggestion
of paintiness about “N. Smorgen,
Esq.” and “lan Menzies” which
is absent from the views of the
Victorian coast and bushland.
Round about Lome Mr.
Colquhoun has captured some
lovely moods of Nature and Mrs.
Colquhoun has rendered the
same service to “Airey’s Inlet.”
“Sunny Day, Eastern View” is
a sparkling effect of sun and
shadow, and “Blossom Park” has
caught the dry look of grass and
the dun effect of gum-trees.
Talkies
“Father’s Doing Fine”
A bright and, occasionally,
uproarious comedy concerning
the internal stresses of an English
family whose titled mother is
perpetually skating around the
fringes of bankruptcy, but who
has a serene and touching faith
in the tolerance of the trades-
people. Richard Attenborough
as the son-in-law and a potential
father is accurately dithering.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦> ♦!«
“The Yellow Balloon”
A gripping, well-constructed
English crime-thriller with an
arresting denouement worked
out in the shadowy recesses of
an abandoned London tube-
station. The theme is a criminal’s
coercion of a schoolboy into
crime. At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ❖
Other Sydney releases :
“The Sword and the Rose”
(Mayfair): A period romance
from Walt Disney about Henry
VJU’s sister Mary and Charles
Brandon. It has a clinking per-
formance by James Robertson
Justice as Henry.
“War of the Worlds”
(Capitol): H. G, Wells’s fantasy
on the Martian invasion of the
Earth projected into the atomic
age —the scientific side well-
handled and the fak e-
photography ingenious.
“Wings of the Hawk”
(Victory): Better - than - average
action stuff, with the volatile
Van Heflin as an American
leader of a revolt in Mexico.
“The Glenn Miller Story”
(State): Another lightweight
biography of a Tin Pan Alleyite,
made tolerable by a sympathetic
performance from James
Stewart.
“Rose Marie” (St. James):
The best treatment yet given
the old musicomedy warhorse,
owing much to Howard Keel’s
good baritone, and to magnificent
scenery in color.


actresses
must have
blowers
by David Campbell
wm nr HEY were part of a
f theatrical touring com-
l j pany. The tour was
sponsored by a committee
whose object was to take culture
to the country. They spent two
or three nights in a town, travel-
ling-on the next day by train.
The halls they acted in were
often primitive, but the cast were
enjoying themselves. It was like
a holiday; they did not have to
take things too seriously. And
the response was surprising; full-
houses every night. There was
little fear of the committee
losing its deposit.
“Really,” Linda Gore said,
“it’s rather pathetic. Poor dears,
they’re starved, quite starved!”
“By the way they’re hoeing
into the sandwiches,” Brian Teil
said, “I’m inclined to agree with
you. Here, have one.”
Linda looked at the sandwiches
and a little tremor ran through
her.
“Brian,” she said, with her
Ophelia look, “you’ve got no
soul.”
Linda was second female lead.
Her hair was very dark and her
skin was very pale. There was a
tiny smattering of freckles on
her nose, and for this reason she
wore shady hats and a heavy
make-up. The make-up gave her
small face an almost expression-
less simplicity from which her
dark eyes looked out, sometimes
very knowingly indeed. She was
at her best at heartbreak —the
Cassandra, the deceived wife, of
the company ; though, of course,
she planned some day to take
the leads. Brian Teil was actor-
manager.
“I know they do their best,”
she said ; “but by the time the
show is over, they’re all so worn-
out, poor lambs, with staying up
late, that all they do is yawn
their heads off. They shouldn’t
have these farewell-parties. Let’s
you and X and Betty slip out and
have a few quick ones in my
bedroom.”
“I’m for it,” Brian said. “Best
say good-night to the mayor
first. That’s the old codger in
the corner.”
“No, please don’t worry,”
Linda said. “Brian and Betty
will see me there. It’s all this
travelling, I expect.”
She was certainly very pale.
She left the mayor with a glimpse
of bosoin and the lingering scents
of spring.
“And don’t forget tomorrow,”
Brian Teil said. He was leaning
on her door at the hotel. “I’ve
hired a car and they’re knocking
up something in the kitchen
We’ll picnic by the river arid the
aunt’s expecting us to tea.”
“But must we see your aunt,
Brian? You say she’s miles out
anyway,”
“Oh, you’ll like her. She’s
quite a character.”
“We see enough of characters
all week. And there are so few
Sundays.”
“Well, if you two lovebirds are
going to squabble all night,”
Betty said, “I’m off to bed.”
“I see you’re still not per-
suaded,” Brian Teil said, meeting
Linda’s dark eyes.
IvrEXT morning there were no
papers, so she spent her time
deciding which clothes to wear.
It was fine —sheer sunlight slant-
ing through the wrought-iron to
the foot of the veranda doors—
and that could mean jeans and a
sweater. But there was Brian’s
aunt; Sunday - aunts meant
church-clothes.
In the end she compromised;
and when Brian called for her,
honking a very old horn out
under the pepper-trees and
cantering up the stairs like half
his age, he found her pensive in
the long mirror, a simple peasant-
girl in smock and straw, her hair
tied-up behind with a single
ribbon.
“Pii-i ppu-u,” he whistled.
“What have'you done with your
pail?”
“Well, if you must have
aunts! ”
And there were no kisses for
him as they lolled under the giant
gums on the riverbank, the
spring sun over their shoulder
and the water coiling ropes at
their feet. He did not even try,
which annoyed Linda. He just
lay back among the ants with his
head on his hat, smiling stupidly
up at the crows.
“Just a bucolic,” she said. “I
don’t know why you ever left the
farm.”
“I wonder myself.”
“If you only knew how bovine
you look, how damned self-
satisfied!”
“Give us a look in your
mirror,” he said. “That is, if
you’ve finished with it.”
“There! There! Take a look
at yOurself. You damn’ fool!”
And she glared at him, pulling
her mouth into a wide idiot
grimace.
“Aw, darling,” he said. “What
have I done? Come off it,
Linda. What is it?”
He had rolled over on to his
knees, kneeling beside her.
“Nothing,” she said. “Just an
expression. It woke you up,
anyway, out of your stupor.
She was running her hand
through his hair. “Dear Brian ;
I’m sorry ; go back to sleep. No,
Brian, no. I won’t have it, Brian.
There, you hold my hand
instead. I’m sick of this place,
let’s walk.”
“About time we pushed on to
Aunt Esther’s.”
“There, there’s no need for
you to sulk now. Lift me up.
Isn’t it lovely, Brian? All these
old trees —how old? —like a
back-drop. And you and I the
lovers. There, one kiss. Do
my freckles show? Well, that’s
only right in a peasant-girl. Let’s
go. You know, I’m quite look-
ing forward to meeting your
aunt. What is she, cap-and-lace
or apple-pie in the kitchen?”
“She’s fairly old.”
Linda was enchanted now, in
her gayest mood; and all the
way along in the par she kept
questioning him, building-up
scenes and exclaiming at things
they passed.
“Has she got a stick, Brian?
She must have a stick. Tap, tap,
tap, along the garden-path with
a cut for Old Faithful for lifting
his leg at the rosemary. Oh, 1
can see your aunt! Rheumatism
from the dank walls. ‘Ouch!
I’m not so spry as I was, love! ’ —
Look Brian, look! Real lambs!
Do they always play like that?
Phew! That was a good one,
son! And that silly old sheep.
Look, she’s playing, too, all
amongst the lambs! Brian, that’s
Aunt Esther.”
While Brian smiled his effort-
less smile, the smile that made
him witty without words and
women dig for secrets.
“But you don’t say we’re there,
Brian? We’re not there? It’s
miles from nowhere. Brian, I’m
not ready! ”
He slowed the car while she
powdered in tears of laughter.
Demurely, in her peasant’s frock,
she stood by the tall front-door.
“Stop pinching me,” Brian
whispered. “Stop it, Linda.”
Winking and grave.
“Nobody there,” she said.
“The old home’s deserted.”
“Oh, she’ll be here. Probably
around the side-garden with her
birds.”
“Birds! You didn’t tell me
about birds. Does she live all
alone?”
“There’s the manager’s cottage
down by the creek. Then there’s
Hughie. He lives in the
quarters.”
“You’ve told me nothing about
this woman,” Linda said.
Ti/TRS. TEIL was in the side-
garden under the elms, a
heavy graceful old woman in a
grey silk dress. Grey hair swept
back from her wide forehead,
and her face had the sweet vague-
ness of those at home with their
thoughts.
“Such a trial, Brian,” she said,
as if continuing a conversation.
“We’ve been not ourselves at all
this spring. Losing feathers and
off our feed and hardly more
than a croak for a song. And
that’s not right for young birds
in spring-time. Forgive me just
one moment and I’ll come and
meet your friend.”
She was holding a fluttering
magpie in her hands, and with a
dextrous movement she slipped
a little stick of wax into its tail.
“There we are now. Run
along. Such an indignity for the
poor birds! How do you do,
my dear? You look perfectly
charming. Brian must bring
you here more often. But never
keep birds. Their little bowels
are always binding, and there s
nothing for it but a good
clearing-out. Now if you’ll come
with me ...
Linda Gore found she .was
shocked. She was caught off
guard. It was the wrong cue in
the play.
“But,” she said, “all the other
birds —wild, I mean. They seem
to manage.”
“Oh, they’re not my respon-
sibility, my dear. They must get
on as best they can. Now, Brian,
you’ll have a whisky-and-soda?
All men like a whisky-and-soda.”
She was leading them back to
the house under the tender green
of the elms where daffodils
sprang-up like sunlight from the
winter lawn.
“And Miss Gore, a sherry?
What can I offer you?”
“Oh, it’s too early for me,”
Linda lied. And with a little cry,
“How heavenly!” she ran
impulsively to encircle in her
white arms a whole hemisphere
of flowers. “Look, Brian!
Could you believe it?”
Mrs. Teil stopped to gaze,
“Charming,” she said.
“Though I’d watch the bees, my
dear. You look charming. The
garden is alive with them in
spring. Now what have I done
with my snips? I’ll pick you
some, my dear, for the pleasure
you’ve given me. Actresses must
have flowers. Now what have I
done with them?” ,
Fumbling vaguely in the folds
of her dress and talking as if
about nothing, as if smoothing
over some embarrassment.
“I thought I had them with
me. Brian, dear, I think you’ll
find a basket and scissors on the
veranda. I longed to be an
actress once, Miss Gore, but I
hadn’t the talent I expect for I
married Brian’s uncle instead.
Ah, there we are.”
She snipped a bloom here, a
bloom there, laying them in the
basket, an old lady lost among
flowers, stealing the stage.
“And now if we’re ready,
we’ll have some tea.”
THEY sat on the western
veranda, the late sun burn-
ing through the trees, burning
in the silver tea-things. Linda
had eaten little and a mass of
cakes remained. She was quiet
now, a little peevish, unable to
play any part under the quiet
natural eye of this old lady.
Brian’s smile was beginning to
get on her nerves again.
With something like malice in
her voice, she said, “You must
find it very lonely here, Mrs.
Teil? So out of the way; so
away from everything.”
“Lonely?” Mrs. Teil said. “I
always expect to be lonely—
that’s the worst part of it, of
course —expecting. But some-
how there isn’t the time. I just
haven’t the time. No,” she said,
her voice becoming brisk, “there
is no time for feeling lonely.
And as for tramps and such,
then there’s my revolver. Wait,
I’ll show you.”
She came back along the
veranda, walking firmly in her
long dress, carrying a heavy
service .45.
“It’s heavy,” she said.
“Perhaps I wouldn’t hit ’em” —
jabbing the squat barrel at the
sunset —“but I’d scare the day-
lights out of ’em for all that.”
She laid the revolver down
amongst the cups and cakes.
“I’d be careful of it, my dear.
It’s loaded. And now I must
take the dogs for a walk. I do
it every evening; one gets into
habits. And they enjoy a run,
poor things.”
She led them out through the
garden and along the hard gravel
road to the stables, walking with
nervous strides, a look of
purpose replacing the vagueness
in her eyes. A little smile itched
at her mouth-corner.
“Old Hughie,” she said. “He’s
likely to be drunk. Few enough
comforts, I expect, at this age.
Take no notice of him. He’s a
good gardener for all that.”
Under a gum-tree the great
dogs of the rabbiting-pack leapt
out on their silver chains. Mrs.
Teil knocked at a door.
“Who’s there?”
“Mrs. Teil, Hughie. I want
you to let the dogs go.”
“Oh, the lady. Dogs, what
dogs?”
An old livid-faced man, leerily
grinning, lurched out sideways
with the door. He steadied,
swayed.
“I thought there were visitors,”
he said. “Bit of fife on the place.
All right, too!”
“Let the dogs go, Hughie.”
“Well, if she wants the dogs
off, who am Ito say No. She’ll
have ’em off. Though it’s
Sunday, and Sunday is me day
of rest.”
He was shuffling at an uneven
glide towards the chained dogs.
“And now Brian,” Mrs. Teil
said, “you take Miss Gore back
to the house and give her a drink.
I’ll only be gone half an hour. ’
She was at her ease again,
kindly, smiling.
“Unless you’d like to come
with me?”
“No. Oh, no, thank you.”
And Mrs. Teil walked away
over the short green of the hill-
side in her grey dress while grey-
hounds bayed and leapt about
her and the late sun lit up their
colors like a lightning-stroke.
IN the sitting-room with its
austere walls and feminine
furnishings, Linda sank into a
chair.
“My head!” she said. Its
burning, burning. Find me an
aspirin, will you. And that drink,
Lord save us!”
When Brian came back, he
found her with her elbows on the
stone mantle, gazing up at her
face in the hanging glass.
“You know,” she said, “I’m
not simple. There’s not a bone in
me that’s simple. I’ve forgotten
how.”
“You’re tired,” he said. “It’s
the country air. That was only
a whim of Aunt Esther’s. The
gun wasn’t loaded —I looked;
and she doesn’t take the dogs
out.”
“Of course. Of course. Leave
me alone. I want to think I’m
either going to howl or swear.
And outside while cocks
crowed in the sharp air and
Hughie drained his bottle, Mrs.
Teil led her greyhounds
defiantly into the sunset.
AT LAKE COOLOOLAH
The blue crane fishing in Cooloolah’s twilight
has fished there longer than our centuries.
He is the certain heir of lake and evening,
and he will wear their color till he dies;
but I’m a stranger, come of a conquering people.
I cannot share his calm, who watch his lake,
being unloved by all my eyes delight in,
and made uneasy, for an old murder’s sake.
Those dark-skinned people who once named Cooloolah
knew that no land is lost or won by wars,
for earth is spirit; the invader’s feet will tangle
in nets there and his blood be thinned by fears.
Riding at noon and ninety years ago,
my grandfather was beckoned by a ghost—
a black accoutred warrior armed for fighting,
who sank into bare plain, as now into time past.
White shores of sand, plumed reeds and paperbarks,
clear heavenly levels frequented by crane and swan—
I know that we are justified only by love,
but oppressed by arrogant guilt, have room for none;
so, walking on clean sand among the prints
of bird and animal, I am challenged by a driftwood spear
thrust from the water, and like my grandfather
must quiet a heart accused by its own fear.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. — In Divorce.
TO HECTOR WARNES address unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife BETTY
WARNES has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for divorce on the
ground that the defendant has been guilty
of habitual failure during a period of
three years immediately prior to the com-
mencement 6t the proceedings to make
periodical payments of maintenance under
an order of a competent Court under
which the parties have been separated
during such period If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within thirty
(30) clear days from the date of this
publication In. default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and "the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. DATED the
22nd day of June, 1954.—G. J. BOYLSON,
DWYER DURACK & DUNPHY, of 33
Barrack Street, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHTLT,tp<?
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL. ’
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J- K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Have you tried
* ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany
have a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s
not idle chance which leads that well-known person-
ality, Claire Bloom, to
„ smoke—and to offer
-these mild and
flavourful
cigarettes.
m
o
AS PULL OP CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street,
London, W.l.
GOLD...
By GEORGE F. DAVIDSON
WHAT’S the use of gold?
Or, why isn’t it used? Or,
rather, what niche should it fill in
the shape of things to come? Is
faith in gold an illusion? Gold
is prized as the safest sanctuary
for wealth, and the memory of-
man runneth not to the contrary.
When other values crumble,
belief in gold strengthens.
Talk has again started that
there is not enough to go round.
This error was prominent soon
after World War I, and gave
birth to the gold-bullion standard
which was imposed on sterling
in April, 1925, but which could
not take the strain. It broke
down in September, 1931. It
nearly wrecked the Empire and
caused colossal waste through
unemployment. It was the child
of the International Economic
Conference at Genoa in 1922.
The great men of the financial
world agreed to “economise” in
gold. The answer is simple
enough—as long as the price for
gold is held too low there is a
physical shortage of it; if held
too high there would be too
much of it—people would not
want it. If constraint were
relaxed so that the metal could
find its natural price in free
markets throughout the globe
both shortage and surplus would
vanish.
There is not a great deal of
this commodity in the world.
Excepting savings, privately
owned, and the unknown
quantity in Soviet hands, the
total is about 32,000 metric tons.
The Cunarder Queen Mary
could take the lot. World pro-
duction today, exclusive of
Soviet countries, may be put at
800 metric tons a year.- The stock
is therefore 40 years’ output. It
is this stock, huge in comparison
with new supplies, that gives
steadiness to its value. The
importance of gold to the
monetary world is due to its
being acceptable everywhere as
the most trustworthy commodity
in value. It is because gold is
“useless” that the large stock is
built up.
The talk about a physical
shortage of gold envisages gold
as a “backing” for money, but
that is a myth. In the slump of
1930 the Argentine was parti-
cularly well ribbed; she had
more than enough gold to redeem
all her paper-money, but it did
not ease her anguish in the
depression—relief came when the
constraint on the price of gold
was relaxed. Australia has
managed without gold since 1930,
and has not fared worse than
New Zealand, where a large gold
stock is carried. Australia used
her gold wisely. Gold is not
money: even gold coins are not
money but little ingots properly
authenticated for convenience
when changing hands. Gold
does not breed money, and talk
of “sterilising” gold is meaning-
less. Although gold is not needed
as a “backing” for money
internally it is wanted for the
exchange-equalisation fund ; that
is to say, its usefulness lies in
international relationships.
Money is essentially national,
like Swiss francs, Japanese yen
and so forth, good only within
its own frontiers where the law
of legal tender can be enforced.
There is no such thing as inter-
national money. This field —call
it the high seas if you like —this
matrix in which the separate
monetary systems lie embedded,
needs a currency. It has none
at present. As R. G. Hawtrey
points out, “the idea of money is
derived from the idea of a debt.*"
The international currency is a
system without debts.
Fundamentally it is not
possible to remit money from
one system to another direct as
a single transaction, but an inter-
national currency will provide a
bridge or link which will make
that possible. The time-honored
medium for exchange between
different monetary systems has
been goods, preferably based on
an intrinsic coin like the gold
sovereign or the old Spanish
silver dollar regardless of its
price. Only one coin is necessary
for such a currency—there is no
need for a series of denomina-
tions, as is the case with money.
Before 1914 sovereigns were used
in this way throughout the globe.
Foreign bills of exchange were
generally expressed in sovereigns,
but they were spoken of as
“sterling bills” through slipshod
speech. Foreigners knew they
could get gold coins on request;
they were not interested in
sterling, which is English money;
it was introduced before there
was an English language and
before the first King of England
ascended the throne, but it has
functioned without a break
although the price of gold has
changed from 18s. to 2505.
sterling an ounce.
Gold has been prevented,
unwittingly, from performing its
proper functions by the United
States of America buying the
world’s movable gold and
imprisoning it. That is a costly
business: vaults have to be pro-
vided, guards have to be main-
tained and the interest on the
money borrowed to pay for the
idle metal has to be met. Even
citizens of this large and
powerful country are not per-
mitted to buy, sell or own gold
coins—that innocent action has
been made a crime. But the
most amusing part of the picture
is that gold is still mined at great
expense, and then gathered in by
the Americans and buried
although they already have more
than they need. Why this
absurdity?
Does anyone doubt that the
value of money changes? In
Australia a haircqt cost 6d. in
1914, Is. 6d. in 1939 and 3s. 9d.
in 1954. In London a buildihg-
laborer was paid one penny a
day in the days of William the
Conqueror, 4d. in the reign of
Henry VIII, 60d. in 1914, and
more than a pound sterling a
day in 1954. Moreover, the value
of the unit of money must be
expected to vary differently in
different countries. For example,
the financial strain of the Great
War halved the value of sterling,
whereas it divided the value of
the French franc by 13 up to
1939. The degradation induced
by World War II may be greater.
This is no new phenomenon: the
Punic Wars played havoc with
Roman money although Rome
was victorious.
As the internal changes gradu-
ally unfold, that fact has to be
faced externally—i.e., outside the
country. That is done by stating
the amount of money payable
for gold coming in from the
international arena. In the case
of France it is in francs per
gramme, and in the case of
Britain it is sterling per ounce.
The ounce of gold is something
“real” into which paper-money
can be converted. Convertibility
implies that there is something
tangible into which the different
monetary units can be converted.
Changing one sort of paper-
money into another is uncon-
vincing—it can be a delusion.
The time-lag before the
internal change in value is
admitted externally is surprisingly
long. Switzerland, for example,
did not raise its price for gold
until 18 years after the end of
War I, and then she lifted it
overnight by 42 p.c.—and Swiss
money was the strongest of all.
U.S.A. had increased its price
for gold by 69 p.c. nearly tfiree
years earlier, but it took nine
months, feeling its way. Franklin
Roosevelt was battling against a
depression and raised the price
too high deliberately, in the hope
of inducing “reflation.” But
U.S.A., instead of getting the
uplift hoped for, was deluged
with the world’s movable gold.
Monetary systems are too big
to be pushed about by leverage
from outside. Even in the days
of Louis XV a great effort was
made to “strengthen” the French
monetary unit, the livre, which
was experiencing inflation after
Marlborough’s wars, by decree
as to its external value. Although
he was an absolute monarch it
was a fiasco. Nowadays money
systems are far more massive,
as they include colossal credit-
structures undreamed of in those
days.
In Australia the price of gold
was doubled between 1929 and
1939 without harming the value
of money at all —a paper pound
in Australia could buy more of
everything that mattered in 1939
than it could in 1929. Raising
the price of gold recognises an
old inflation; it does not start
a new one. Financial circles do
not accept this —they fear that
the value of the monetary unit
will follow the external changes.
As the external changes can be
enforced with a stroke of the
pen, that would be too easy. It
is this superficial thinking that
puts gold into a straitjacket,
apparently. Gold is imprisoned
in order to keep its price fixed
and false under the misappre-
hension that gold is money.
Or it may be that U.S.A.
desires to force its money, the
dollar, on the world as interna-
tional currency. It is natural
enough that it should wish to
capture the business associated
with the financial hub of the
universe. Each city has
flourished while it held that
proud position. Byzantium lost
it to Florence in 1204, whence it
migrated to Antwerp in 1477, to
Amsterdam in 1585 and to
London in 1790.
In addition to balancing the
Budget internally, each country
has to keep itself in balance with
the international arena. This is
more difficult now than it was in
the steady times before 1914.
Then Britain restrained the out-
flow of gold by raising the bank-
rate of interest, but that was too
weak even then. In future
control can be exercised by rais-
ing the price for gold (or vice
versa as required). There is no
difficulty in trading with a fluc-
tuating price for gold: Canada
has been doing so for many
months, and it is the most pros-
perous of the British Common-
wealth countries; Britain did so
from 1919 to 1925 and again
from 1931 to 1939. Each country
can vary its price for gold so as
to preserve a balance between its
payments inwards and outwards.
Thus exchange-rates would settle
themselves, as they are really
ratios of the prices of gold in the
different countries, and bickering
with other countries on this issue
could be avoided. There need
be no negotiating of rates of j
foreign exchange if each country
keeps its own money convertible
into gold. If the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia auctioned 100
old gold sovereigns every day in
Sydney without any strings
attached, Australian money
would soon gravitate towards
convertibility. Gold is the
common platform where all
countries can meet on equal
terms.
The proper function of gold is
to help world trade. The large
stocks of it would be carried by
central banks both at the head-
office and at the financial centre
of the world where international
balances are settled. When gold
is moved by these authorities it
will probably be in the form of
big ingots (400 ounces) as the
amounts involved will be large.
Coins are not needed for settle-
ments between different coun-
tries, but they have always been
preferred to weights for writing
out bills of exchange.
There is no reason why a
foreign bill should not be written
out in ounces of gold. The coin
is necessary for unmasking the
true value of gold, for confirm-
ing the truth of the price attached
to it, by means of broad, free
markets. It has to be made in
the size most convenient for
changing hands. Ever since coin-
ing was invented, about 700 b.c.,
the favored size has been about
a quarter of an ounce, Persian
darics which circulated down to
the time of Alexander the Great
were much the same weight as
the guinea of 1663, which was
issued originally not as money,
not as currency of the realm, but
as a convenient way of marketing
newly-mined gold from the Gulf
of Guinea, The weight was
about 130 grains: that was the
size of package which would
command the highest price.
At the opposite extreme was
the unit adopted for the gold-
bullion standard, 400 ounces, or
1600 times too big. It put gold
out of reach so as to “economise”
in it. It narrowed the market
so as to make it no market at
all. The primary duty of gold
coins is to put life into the
marketing of gold, to have spme
of the stuff changing hands
frequently so as to keep its price
in line with current affairs,
Before 1914, when sovereigns
Zf > n co "| mo “ use ’/XSf?nd
had more than five of
the number was constantly
changing.
CtenShl Ins,ead ot b l inS k ?‘ , in ld ’t
nes, gold can be made to work
better than ever by introducing
an international intrinsic com.
Its place is vacant. Foreign
credits would be set-up m erms
of this unit to honor bills of
exchange drawn m the same
terms of gold when merchandise
is being shipped The shippe
gets paid m local money. This
unit may be looked upon as a
symbol, if you wish: a national
flag or a reigning monarch may
be regarded as a Symbol, but they
* . An inter-
natiQnal currencv which is not
money makes available a bridge
or lin k between separate systems
D f money as nothing else can.
Gold is the road to converti-
bility. Import duties, quotas
and even licences have been over-
worked to help balance payments
b v choking hack the inwards
stream of broods when flowing
buoyantly. By using gold as thS
symbol of the international arena
instead of considering each
country individually, by varying
its official price, the outward!
strea m of money payments for
such goods can be made to match
the stream flowing in the opposite
direction without throttling back
either of them. They have to be
made to balance somehow. In
this wav each country can be
independent of other countries
and each can be held wholly
responsible for balancing its
business with the res t of the
world. A new international
currency is a proper use for gold,
pis


PRESS DAY
By M. G. VINCENT
T* O the young Venables, life
S was divided into two
L j simple sections: “When
we lived behind the office,”
and “After we came up on the
hill.” Only Jimmy had no
memories of the office as he had
been a mere toddler when the
dramatic move had been accom-
plished: but for the three girls,
especially Marian, there were
many recollections, and all of
these seemed to roll out like
story-sheets from the Wharf-
dale whose rumble in the early
evening had been their lullaby.
Although the house was
separated from the office by an
ordinary door, it was like the
door to the Throne Room, and
was not to be opened by ordinary
mortals except by royal
command. On rare occasions the
children were graciously allowed
to stand just inside this door and
watch the awe-inspiring Wharf-
dale fed with spotless newsprint.
Round the cylinders sped the
sheets and on to the flyers, which
seemed delicately to waft them
through the air with gentle iron
fingers, laying them softly, glossy
with fresh ink, on the wide rear
board. From this, big piles of
them were snatched by the
persons detailed to fold them for
the newsagent and parcel them
for the post.
To be allowed to stand behind
the linotype-operator was an
even greater honor, and never
in any circumstance was more
than one child ushered on
to this sacred ground. Wedged
between a wobbly table made of
two upturned kerosene-boxes (on
which the operator weighted
down his current copy with a dis-
carded advertisement-block, and
stacked in a fascinating heap old
slugs, a collection of tobacco-tins,
cough-mixture, an old spoon, an
interesting selection of humorous
pars for emergencies, and a bottle
of liniment), and a frame of type-
cases, the chosen child followed
the mysterious wanderings of the
matrices from the time they
were released in cascades
from the magazine until they
were returned home by the weird
arm-like elevator to the distri-
butor, which held them much as
a magnet dangles pins until it
safely deposited each passenger
into its appointed channel.
When the children were ill, the
printer’s furniture and old lino,
slugs were given to them for
playthings, and if they were very
ill the paper-sample book was
brought to them with stern
instructions “to be careful” ; but
the office was never their play-
ground, and so it brought to their
otherwise ordinary lives the faint
spice of excitement which was
lost only with childhood.
Generally the Tuesdays and
Fridays the paper went to press
the father was irritable or
gloomily withdrawn. The middle
door had a wretched time of it
on these days, and the huge war-
poster, which hung above its
lintel on the office side, was
stirred by the upward rush of
air so that the ghastly hands of
the gorilla-like German seemed
to be actually dripping blood,
and the leering grin and piggish
eyes were brought to life. In
fact, the German positively
thrived on the trouble which
beset the office; and it was
astounding just how many things
could and did go wrong. One of
the machines might have a
cranky fit and be as capricious
as a woman; the linotype-
operator might have an off-day
and fill an amazing number of
lines with his own private code:
“C. etaoin shrdl u,” or.
more simply whisk through at
double-quick time by miracu-
lously failing to see a line here
and there on the copy.
As the father’s writing was
atrocious, it was not hard to find
some excuse for these temporary
lapses. The office-devil generally
was blamed for incidentals, such
as the mysterious disturbance of
the standing advertisements
which were left on the stone from
one press-day till the next. But
by far the most common cause of
complaint was that the town was
dead. This meant that the father
was having trouble to fill the
news - columns. He always
heralded these unhappy days by
trumpeting that they’d be “at it
till midnight” or “we’ll miss the
mail; that’s certain.”
A DAY the children remem-
bered for a long time was
the day Jane set out to garner
news. In the early morning the
children came from their bed-
room to the dining-room to find
it as usual littered with papers.
“Now, Maria n,” half-
whispered the mother from the
kitchen doorway, “collect those
papers and stuff them under the
cushion in your father’s chair
before he gets up.”
“My word,” said Marian, in
her high, penetration voice,
“Daddy has been cutting a lot
out this time, hasn’t he!” She
held up a sheet which was
checkered with gaping holes and
flapped it about.
“Shut up!” came a dreadful
bellow from the parents’
bedroom.
“Oh, dear, oh, dear,” twittered
the mother, her hands fluttering
her apron. “There now, see what
you’ve done. Why can’t you
just do as you’re told without
saying things? Now hurry up.
Pen, you help Marian.”
“I’ve got a splinter in my
finger,” said Pen, sidling into the
kitchen where she almost sat on
the stove.
“Just like your Aunt Lennie —
always finding something wrong
with you when there’s work to be
done,” reproached the unhappy
mother, stirring the porridge
distractedly.
“I’ll help,” said Jane,
Although James was only
three, he realised that something
was amiss, so he sat himself
quietly on the leather-sofa and
watched the girls’ activity with
large, blue, unblinking eyes.
“Look at that good little boy,”
said the mother, catching sight
of him, and pausing in her work
to gaze at him fondly. “He’s
never a moment’s trouble to
anyone.”
Embarrassed, Jimmy dropped
his lashes and looked at, his shoes.
Then he suddenly kicked his
heels in the air and fell back on
the couch.
“He’s showing-off, the silly
little thing,” said Marian,,
smiling, Jimmy gave another
writhe and a kick and fell off
the couch, hitting his small nose
flat on the floor. He let out a
wail. The father, hair dis-
hevelled, appeared in the door-
way, glaring. “What’s all that
row?” he demanded. “Up till
after midnight, and now awake
at dawn.” He looked out the
window as though searching for
stars and was made a liar by
bright sunshine.
“Oh, his poor little nose is all
bleeding,” moaned Marian,
cuddling Jimmy.
“What a pity he didn’t break
an arm or something,” said Jane,
“and then Daddy could have
had it for the paper.”
“Ssshhh,” hissed the mother.
“That’s right,” came a fierce
roar, “all fall down and all break
limbs. I suppose you’ll pay the
doctor’s bills, too. Marian!
Bring my shaving-water! ”
“Come into the kitchen,” the
mother said in a soft but urgent
tone.
They all went into the kitchen
and sat at the table waiting for
their porridge. Jane asked:
“Why did Daddy get mad? He
wouldn’t mind if Tommy Tyrell
broke his arm and he could put it
in the paper.”
“Don’t be so dreadful,” pro-
tested Marian, coming back from
delivering the shaving-water.
“He doesn’t like to see anyone
hurt, does he. Mummy?”
' “No, of course,” began the
mother. Then she gave a
horrified squeak, almost drop-
ping the porridge-pot. “Oh,
dear, I forgot to get any boot-
polish. You'll have to hurry
with your porridge, Marian, and
go up and get some at Halliday’s
before your father gets round to
cleaning his boots.”
With a bad grace, Marian set
out for the shop. She reached
the front-gate on the veranda
and, hearing running feet, looked
fback to find Jane, her eyes
sparkling and her lips curved into
a delightful smile.
“I can come, too,” Jane
announced.
A window rasped in its frame.
“Where are you girls going?”
demanded their father, poking
his head through the narrow
aperture. He looked like a man
with his head under a guillotine,
and his staring eyes above the
foamy lather gave the scene a
befitting drama.
“Just up the street.”
“Well, keep your eyes
skinned,” said the father. “Now,
Marian, it is time you learned to
keep your wits about you,” said
the father, ignoring Jane. “You
walk around in a dream all the
time. And, if you see Mr.
Hopkins you ask him if he’s seen
old Wellsey about lately. You
might be just in time to catch
him before he leaves if you
hurry.”
“Which Mr. Hopkins?”
“You know very well which
Mr. Hopkins, you numbskull.
The one who drives the Bora
mail. And tell him if he sees
Wellsey today to ask him why
he hasn’t sent
down his Bora
news and his
weekly letter.
Now can you re-
member that?
It’s perfectly
simple. An idiot
could remember
it.”
“Yes, Daddy.
I think I can.”
“I can,” announced Jane, con-
fidently. “Tell old Wellsey to
send down his news and his
letter.”
“Mr. Wellsey,” yelled the
father, twisting his neck and con-
torting his features so that the
froth quivered, and a couple of
bubbles wafted away like tinsel
fragments. “Mr. Wellsey. Mr.”
Hand-in-hand they walked
from the shadow of the office
into the clover-scented sunshine.
Jane sniffed the fragrance,
accepting it as she accepted the
sunshine. “Perhaps old Wellsey
has died,” she said gleefully, “and
that’ll be something for the
paper.”
Marian did not hear her. She
was looking about with delight.
From the coffee-palace on the
opposite side of the street came
the clatter of dishes and cutlery.
The cook’s bulldog ambled down
the driveway, which ran under
the first floor of the palace from
the backyard to the footpath.
The iron-balustraded balcony
crested it like an ornate arch,
giving it a fathomless mystery in
the eyes of the young Venables,
who had been warned time and
time again not to poke so much
as a nose into it. It was there-
upon invested with the sinister
allure of all forbidden places.
Marian looked into it with long-
ing, transforming the melancholy
bulldog into a wretched Hecate,
skulking in the shadows.
“There’s greedy Ruby,” hissed
Jane, tugging at Marian’s hand.
Marian came back from her
dreams into the sunshine much
the same as a person walking
from a cinema into the daylight.
On the doorstep of the bake-
house sat Ruby Mayerling, chew-
ing at a long twist of liquorice.
“Where’re you going?” she
demanded, her round, blue eyes
painted on to her pallid face,
which was encased firmly in her
“American-cut” bob like an egg
in a pale-yellow egg-cup.
“Tell her not to be a sticky-
beak and a rubber-neck and a
treacle-belly,” hissed Jane.
“We’re going to Halliday’s,”
said Marian primly, “and it’s no
use you following us because
we’re not going for biscuits, see."
“Think you’re smart, little miss
goody-goody. Yah, yah. Think
you’re someone. Yah, yah. I’m
glad my father hasn’t a silly old
newspaper. It’s only an old rag.
Yah, yah. A silly old rag, that’s
all it is.”
“Well,” said Jane smartly,
“you can read our paper, but no
one can eat your bread! ”
“Come on," breathed Marian,
horrified.
When the shrieks of “Yah,
yah, silly old rag,” had faded,
Marian said firmly, “You mustn't
say things like that.”
“Why? It’s true. Daddy said
the bread sticks in his gizzard.”
“But you mustn’t say so.”
“Why? She said the paper
was a rag.”
Marian, too young to under-
stand the intricate diplomacy of
reciprocal trade in a small town,
yet observant enough to realise
the existence of a strict code,
could only explain haltingly:
“Well, Mr. Mayerling advertises,
so we have to eat his bread.”
She added, “And pretend we
like it.”
“I think that’s awfully silly,”
commented Jane.
“And,” continued Marian,
warming up to the lecture, “you
must not tell other people what
other people say. What people
say in their homes is different
from what they say outside.”
“Not me,” said Jane firmly.
“Oh, look,” she cried, instantly
forgetting the stupid puzzle,
“look at that funny box.”
In the middle of the intersec-
tion of the two stood
the concrete base and pillar of
the monument being erected in
memory of the men who had
fought in the “Great War.” At
the foot of the steps lay a huge
crate. They walked over and
examined it. There was writing
on it, but most of it was in-
decipherable, so they tried to peer
through the cracks.
“Look out! He’ll bite you!”
yelled a voice immediately
behind them. They jumped with
fright, and the owner of the
voice burst out in belches of
delighted laughter. He was a
very tall, broad man, with a
bushy moustache, which he
fondled incessantly.
“Who’ll he bite?” asked Jane,
while Marian stared at him with
apprehension.
“That’s the wild man from
Borneo they’ve got locked up in
that crate.”
“How can he bite through the
wood?” demanded Jane, going
to the crate and trying to peer
through a crack.
“Look out there!" cried the
man, enjoying himself hugely.
“It’s a long time since he’s had a
feed and he’s liable to do any-
thing when he’s hungry.”
Marian’s eyes were by now
enormous. Although four years
older than Jane she had none of
her sister’s precocity, and was
often pathetically credulous.
sNow she whispered, “But that’s
cruel, haying him shut - up.
Someone should tell the
sergeant.”
The man slapped his thigh
whilst his laughter escaped in
violent bursts. Marian flushed,
and tugging at Jane, who was by
now practically standing on her
head in her endeavors to look
into the crate, she whispered:
“Come on, Jane. Daddy’ll roar.”
They started across the road
for Halliday’s, and the man
swaggered ahead of them, blow-
ing his nose, fondling his
moustache and hooting .with
laughter.
JT wasn’t till he was almost at
-*■ the kerb that the children
noticed the car. They stopped
abruptly and stared at it in
wonderment. In those days there
were only a few cars on the
plateau, and none of them was
new. Whenever they ventured
out on the invariably muddy
roads, clanking the chains which
seemed inseparable from their
churning wheels, everyone de-
clared that they were a greater
nuisance than the traction-
engine which had been cursed by
every buggy-and-sulky owner
and every bullock-driver on the
roads. But this car was dif-
ferent: it was a gleaming
limousine of vermilion with
polished hubs and perpendicular
luggage-guards of silver orna-
menting its huge doors.
A crowd of men and boys
stood in the gutter and on the
road, gaping at it. One intrepid
soul had even opened the front-
door and was peering inside,
sprawled like a mechanic over
the running-board.
The man with the moustache
walked to the car, and with a
lordly air he slapped his hand on
to the bonnet; “Well, gentlemen,
and what do you think of her,
eh?” he asked smugly. “Now,
gentlemen, who’d like to place
an order with me for an identical
car? All the way from Sydney,
gentlemen, and look at her!
Like new, and purring like a
kitten with its belly full of
cream.”
Marian and Jane at last
reached Halliday’s sh'op-awning.
“I’ll wait here, Mari,” said the
inquisitive Jane. “Don’t you
dare budge!” commanded
Marian authoritatively, and went
into the shop, looking back over
her shoulder so intently that she
bumped into Mr. Halliday. Mr.
Halliday never failed to arouse
in Marian an overwhelming awe,
and she scurried to the counter
in confusion.
“Well, Whiskers, what can I
do you for?” asked Lester
Biddle, grinning at her. He was
a slight, short youth with very
black hair which was always
neatly plastered, and a pair of
extraordinary eyes. The large
pupils were italicised by a light


but brilliant blue which gave him
distinction.
“My name isn’t ‘Whiskers.’ ”
“Very well, Whiskers,” said
Lester seriously. “What does
your mother want?” Marian
opened her mouth ; and instantly
anxiety flooded her eyes. “Oh,
Lester,” she whispered. “I can’t
remember. Ooooh, what’ll I
do?”
“Better nick back and ask,”
said Lester. “Here’s an iced
vo-vo to give you some strength.”
“Oooh, but I can’t,” said the
distrait Marian. “It’s something
for Daddy and he’ll roar if it
doesn’t get there in time.”
“He’ll roar anyway,” said the
knowing Lester. “Is it soap,
sugar, tea, salt?” he droned,
swinging around to look at the
laden shelves. “Is it jam, syrup,
honey, treacle?” On he went
until the words merged one into
the other. At last he came to a
stop and looked kindly at
Marian. “Better nick back,
Whiskers,” he said, “and I’ll
serve you as soon as you hit the
step,”
“I’ll go out and ask Jane first,”
mumbled Marian. She found
Jane sitting in the curb beside
the beautiful new car. Jane said,
“I told Davey” (the office-devil)
“to tell Daddy to come up and
look at the car. It’ll do for the
paper.”
“What have I to get?”
“And that horrid man has
gone in to Mr. Halliday’s office
to sell him one,” announced Jane
jubilantly.
“Jane, what have I to get?”
“I dunno,” said Jane, cupping
her chin in her dimpled hands
and gazing with a seraphic smile
at the car.
In misery, Marian stared at the
ground, and saw the boots of half
a dozen men milling around in
the metal. She gave a rapturous
cry and dashed back into the
shop, calling out, “Lester, it’s
boot-polish.”
When she rejoined Jane, the
car had vanished. “Where’s it
gone? Come on, hurry up ; I’ve
got it,” she said, all in one
breath,
Jane did not budge from her
seat on the kerb. “Mr. Wills
couldn’t get his sulky past it,”
she said in a bemused voice, “so
Mr. Templeton and another man
pushed it around the corner.”
“Well, come on," cried
Marian, tugging at her. Just
then the car man and Mr. Halli-
day came out of the shop, the
salesman talking volubly.
“God A’mighty! Where’s it
gone?” he bellowed, staring at
the spot where he had left his
treasure.
Jane said sweetly. “Two men
took it,”
“What! Took it? Where’d
they take it?”
Without hesitation Jane
pointed up the street in the
opposite direction from the
corner. She watched the man
pounding up the road shouting,
“Stop them! Hold them!
Mr. Halliday followed him at
a brisk but dignified trot.
“Oh, Jane,” remonstrated
Marian as they set off home-
ward. “Serve. him right,” said
Jane. “He thinks himself. Any-
rate Daddy’ll be pleased. It’ll be
something else for the paper.
There might even be a fight
Can’t we wait and see if there’s
a fight when he finds out?”
“No, we can’t,” said Marian
firmly, dragging Jane down the
footpath. Jane waved a hand at
the crate at the foot of the monu-
ment. “That’s the stone soljer
for the top of the monaument.
Davey said so.”
“Oooh,” said Marian, over-
come at the nastiness of the car
man.
"MEARING the office they saw
the father fling open the
front-gate. From the balcony of
the coffee-palace the young bank-
clerks and several travellers, who
had just finished their breakfast,
called out in unison, “Good old
Ray! ” And Don Webster cried,
“Got his nose to the trail of some
red-hot news for the rag! Head-
lines tonight!”
“Oh, he’s coming for us,’
whispered Jane: but he passed
them without a word, his eyes
eagerly set on Halliday’s store,
where an excited crowd was now
gathered.
The mother, after hearing the
very long and complicated
report, said, “Well, all I hope
is that Mr. Halliday doesn’t tell
your father about Jane.” Her
tone signified that she had no
faith in Mr. Halliday’s restraint,
“Oh, dear, things are just as bad
as they can be. There’s your
father without any news and like
a bear with a sore head. And
while you were away, Dolly sent
a message to say she has the ’flu
and can’t come today. Now all
go out on the veranda and try
and amuse yourselves.”
The rest of the morning passed
slowly, and Jane found it boring.
She spent a lot of time swinging
on the veranda-railing and gazing
between the palings. She made
several attempts to escape the
watchful eyes of her mother and
Marian when the tradesmen
called and the gate was left open,
but each time she was called back
from the steps.
At last the mother said, “I’ll be
glad when the holidays end. You
are so tiresome, Jane. I’ll let you
cut out some pictures if you
promise to be sure Jimmy doesn’t
get the scissors.”
“Pooey to pictures. I want to
go and get some more news like I
did this morning. What’ll happen
if Daddy can’t fill the paper?
Won’t there be one today?”
“I think you can safely leave
that to your father,” the mother
informed her. “He’s been bring-
ing out the paper for a long time
now without any help from you,
and no doubt he’ll be able to keep
on doing it”
Jane reluctantly took the
scissors. “Your father should
be in a better humor at dinner-
time. He was up the street for
an hour, so he probably found
some news, because he’s for-
gotten to come back and clean
his boots.”
To her sorrow she found she
had been too optimistic about
the father, for when he emerged
from the office, looking rather
like a seal who had come to the
surface for a fish and found only
air, he was in a very bad mood
indeed.
“Oh, dear, and I thought all
our problems were solved. What
about the car?”
“Do you think anyone wants
to read four columns about a
car?” demanded the father with
heavy sarcasm.
“It’s a lovely car,” said Marian
wistfully.
“It wouldn’t fill four columns
if it was Caesar’s chariot,” yelped
the father. “Now stop this
infernal chattering. I want to
think.”
Jane whispered to Marian,
“Ask him if he wrote anything
about the car being pinched?”
“Daddy?”
“Well?”
“Did you write anything about
the men moving the car?”
“I did!” He gave her a sharp
glance. “And what do you know
about it?” he demanded suspici-
ously. The mother bit her lips.
Marian said, with unmistakable
candor, “I was just coming home
from the store when the car
man was looking for it.”
“Oh,” grunted the father.
Suddenly finding courage,
Jane said, “He’s a nasty man.
He told Marian and me that the
stone soljer in the box at the
monaument was the wild-man
from Borneo and would eat us.”
“Now don’t bother me,”
snapped the father. After a few
seconds, the meaning of Jane’s
words penetrated the fog of his
concentration, and he cried,
“What’s this? What stone
soldier? Do you mean the
soldier is here for the monument.
Eh? Is it?”
“Oh, yes,” said Marian, her
eyes round with surprise. “Didn’t
you know?”
“How could I know?”
thundered the father. “Nobody
tells me anything.”
“Why don’t you skin your
eyes like you told us?” asked
Jane, unaware of the enormity
of her criticism until her shin
was skinned by Marian’s well-
directed kick.
“No cheek from you, Madam,”
ordered the angry father, poking
his fork at her. “Now silence !
I want to think.”
Pen, who had been day-
dreaming now asked in her slow
drawl, “But if there’s no news
what are you going to think
about?”
“If there’s no news, then I’ll
have to draw on my imagination.
I shall have to write another
article about the railway.” His
expression changed from anger
to gloom as he thought of all the
years he had been writing about
the proposed branch-line. He
had exhausted all his arguments
in favor of it, and all his invective
against the evils of centralisation
and the stalling-ability of suc-
cessive Governments. He had
also exhausted his patience and
nullified his hope. He thought
(savagely it would seem if any-
thing could be judged by his
lowering expression) all through
the meal. As he pushed back his
pudding-plate, he commanded:
“You come in with me, Marian.
I want you to go up and get the
mail. I can’t spare the time.
And if there’s nothing from old
Wellsey he must be dead.”
“Don’t tell me he’s missed out
with his Letter to the Editor
after all these years,” said the
mother brightly.
“Well, what do you think I’m
telling you?” asked the father
irritably. “And no Bora news,
either. He’s probably mangled
himself to bits in one of his fool
inventions.”
“Why don’t you ring up?”
“What a fool of a woman!”
“Just one little fatigue—to please me !”
cried the father, and the mother
shuddered.
“What do you think I’ve been
trying to do all morning? The
line’s out of order. It’s always
out of order.” He started for the
door. “Marian!” he com-
manded.
“I’ll go, too!” cried Jane,
jumping from her chair. “You’ll
stay right here,” said the mother
under her breath. The door
closed on the father and Marian.
BEFORE giving Marian the
post - box key, the father
dashed down the front steps
and looked up the road. “The
mail’s just in,” he announced
with satisfaction. He looked like
a small boy anticipating a
Christmas stocking. “Now
here’s the key, and don’t lose it,
Madam. No walking around
with your head in the clouds.
And when you take the letters
out, count them. And look in
the box to see you haven’t missed
anything. And be sure you shut
the box properly, and take out
the key. Then come straight
back.”
“Yes, Daddy,” said Marian.
On the Post Office veranda
several men were sitting on the
railing gossiping. She said “Good-
afternoon” to them. They
watched her as she stood on the
long slab of timber under the
boxes and inserted the key. She
was tremendously embarrassed
by their scrutiny and wondered
miserably if her bloomers were
showing. She tried to pull down
her skirt, stand on her toes and
look into the box, all at the same
time. She looked through the
long oblong and met the bright
bold eyes of young Hockey who
was doing the sorting.
“Boo! ” he shouted.
Marian flushed. She felt that
he was derisive and stared back
at him haughtily. He shot a long
letter into the box and it flew out
and hit her on the nose. As she
was stooped in great confusion
picking it up from the step two
more letters catapulted out. She
almost wept with mortification.
Two of the men on the railing
laughed, but redheaded Fergus
Cadley came over and shut the
letter-box. He picked up the
two letters and said gravely, as
though he were conversing with
a person of his own age, “Appar-
ently Hockey doesn’t know it’s
bad manners to hit a young lady
in the face.” He handed her the
letters, his brown eyes smiling.
“And how is your mother, my
dear?” he asked, “Last time 1
saw her she was having trouble
with her teeth.”
As Marian told him, she re-
solved she would never again
stand silent whilst Fergus was
being ridiculed for his Micawber-
like existence. “He is a kind
man,” she thought, little realising
that this was the root of his
failure to prosper or impress his
fellow-men.
After a few minutes of con-
versation, mainly contributed by
Fergus, he said, “Well, my dear,
I think the sorting’s finished.”
Marian opened the box, took
out the letters, stood on her toes
to make sure she had not missed
anything and slammed the door.
Retrieving the key, she mur-
mured good-bye and left the
veranda with great relief,
' At the office, she found the
telegraph-boy standing at the
father’s desk, waiting to receive
attention. The father came in a
rush from the linotype, a sheaf
of proofs in his hand.
“Well?” he grunted, his mind
on more important things than
the boy. The youth thrust a
sheet of newsprint before his
eyes. “Mr, Canning says ‘What’s
this?’ ” He pointed at a word.
The father glanced at the strip of
paper covered with small thick
writing, the ink of which had
run into feathery lines as ink
generally does on porous news-
print. “What blasted fool wrote
this?” he demanded, one eye
on the sheet and one on the first
proof,
“You did!” said the boy with
delight. “It’s your Press-
telegram.”
“Oh. Um. So it is,” mumbled
the father, grinning in spite of
himself. “Why doesn’t Canning
get I can see now. It’s
all perfectly clear.” He sat down
at his table, took up his pen and
went through the telegram. At
the foot of the sheet he wrote,
“Get glasses.”
“Now, madam,” he said to
Marian. He pocketed the key.
“Good Lord,” he cried, “there’s
no letter from old Wellsey.” He
glared over the top of his spec-
tacles at Marian as though she
alone were responsible for this
calamitous default. “Did you
tell Hopkins this morning?”
“I didn’t see him.”
“Did you count these letters?”
His tone suggested that she cer-
tainly had not done so,
“Yes, I did!” said Marian firm-
ly, her pugilistic spirit at last
vanquishing discretion.
“He must be ill or dead,” com-
mented the father, downhearted.
“I can always depend on him for
at least half-a-column. Gener-
ally I have to cut it down, and
now just when I want it, he
doesn’t show up.” He turned to
the telephone and gave it a
furious ring. “What about that
Bora line?” he asked. “What!
Still down! Well, when it’s up,
if ever, will you put me through?
Thanks.” He turned back to
the proofs. “Now just a minute
till I read this one and you can
take it back to Dick to get on
with.”
At last he gave it to her, “And
don’t hang around here,” he
mumbled ungratefully, his eyes
already boring into the next
proof. “Go round the front. I
don’t want that draught lifting
all the paper in the office.”
At the front-gate Marian
found her mother, looking
anxiously up and down the road.
“Oh, dear, did you see Jane?”
“No.”
“Dear, oh, dear, what a
naughty child she is. I only took
my eye off her for a minute while
I was looking at the old Aus-
trian woman’s cabbages and she
must have nicked out the gate.
Where could she be? Oh, here’s
Mrs. Smithers. She might have
seen her.”
Mrs. Smithers had seen her:
Going round the Australasian
Bank corner and “carrying the
kitchen spring-scales. I must say
I thought she looked most
peculiar, and rather —er —dirty
to be out in the street,” con-
cluded the lady, looking with
some pleasure down her aristo-
cratic nose, % one nostril of which
she flared with an expressive
sniff.
In spite of her anxiety, the
mother had sufficient presence of
mind to reply tartly, “She’s been
changed twice today.” She
turned to Marian. “You will
have to go and look for her.
She’s probably up at Perry’s.”
“But the rhubarb’s on,” said
Marian, “and she knows if she
goes there Perry will give her
a bunch and then she’ll have to
eat it. And anyrate Perry would
bring her home. She always
does.”
“Oh, dear. That’s right.
What am I going to do? Half-
an-hour she’s been gone and I’ve
been waiting for you to come
back. Perhaps I better go and
look for her. You go in and
keep an eye on Jimmy and see
that Pen doesn’t tease him.”
Barely two minutes had passed
before the father came rushing
out from the office. [‘Now
what’s wrong?” he demanded as
though time’s passage were
marked by trouble instead of
minutes.
“Nothing,” faltered Marian.
“Then why’s your mother gone
tearing up the road in her house-
dress and without a hat? Eh?”
Marian frowned in perplexity.
“Perhaps she’s gone to look at
th 6 new car,” she said, trying to
be honest yet circumspect at the
same time.
“A nice rigout to wear up the
street. Dashing around like a
washerwoman,” grumbled the
father, apparently satisfied with
Marian’s explanation. As he
went back to the office he said,
“Tell her I want some paste.
And she better get a new tin;
this one’s pretty high.”
TiifARIAN read aloud to
Jimmy. Pen continued
happily with her drawing. Ten
minutes passed pleasantly. Then
suddenly the mother and Jane
were among them, and the peace
fled.
(Continued on page 27)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. IV. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S, White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing birector. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States,
The Opportunist
by a. Reynolds
ACROSS the road was half
an acre of land with a
bisecting concrete path
and an iron palisade
which was inordinately formid-
able in view of the few seats and
shaggy trees it enclosed.
Euphemistically referred to as a
park, it was, in reality, a square
of cringing yellow grass, trapped
and loured upon by contiguous
buildings. To Mrs. Marshall,
leaning over the gate waiting for
the paper-boy, it was a symbol
of impending upheaval destined
to result in domestic and financial
calamity, and she confided as
much fo Mrs. Gray, the upstairs
tenant, when that lady appeared
at the front gate.
“Well, you can’t be sure, of
course,” said Mrs. Gray, who,
having heard the story so many
times that it was more a recital
than a confidence, always
responded with that mildly con-
soling phrase. “It’s only a
rumor.”
“Teddy thinks it’s a certainty.”
Mrs. Gray suppressed her
desire to ask whether Teddy had
acquired his information at the
local pub. Flippancy was all very
well as far as some people were
concerned. Never with land-
ladies. She was spared the
details of Teddy’s omniscience,
by the arrival of Mrs. Devereaux
from the downstairs —strictly
speaking, below-street-level
flat.
“Lovely morning,” she
announced, taking a sniff at the
grey, tepid air. Her remark was
as inane as her attire, which con-
sisted of an Army overcoat flung
over a prawn-pink nightdress, an
over-large pair of sandals and an
eyeshade clamped to her grey,
dishevelled head. An appalling
contrast to Mrs. Gray’s elegant
deshabille which featured the
Chinese influence, and Mrs.
Marshall’s worn, serviceable and
eminently respectable house-
gown, but Mrs. Marshall was too
preoccupied with ominous con-
jectures to be either embarrassed
for, or by, Mrs. Devereaux.
“Yes,” she agreed, generously,
as she stared at the park and
attempted to visualise the
machinations which were prob-
ably at this very moment going
on in the minds of aldermen.
Were they callous, or deliberately
sadistic? Tomorrow she would
go to the Council Chambers and
get to the bottom of the whole
deplorable business. As a
property-owner, she was within
her rights to know precisely what
was going to happen.
And, as a property-owner, she
felt a brief, sharp envy for the
unconcern of Mrs. Gray and
Mrs. Devereaux. For the former,
the eleventh hour would involve
no more worry than securing a
removalist’s van on which to
load her blond maple and
chrome and glass furniture:
articles which had caused Mrs.
Marshall to wonder —by some
inexplicable association of ideas
—whether Mr. Gray had once
been a blackmarketeer. Still,
accommodation would present
no difficulties for the Grays;
she was sure of that. And it
would present even less to the
Devereaux, who, unless com-
pelled by sentiment, would not
bother transporting their
cretonne-and-packing-case furni-
ture, but would wander around
until, with the luck that favors
the haphazard, they found an
untenanted basement which they
would convert, with ostentatious
ingenuity, into a residence.
She turned and looked at the
house, drably dead in the pale
light. To be condemned!
Demolished . . .
An inhuman shriek sliced the
air, followed by thunderous
rumbling and metallic grinding.
Mrs. Marshall swung round,
stunned by this manifestation of
her thoughts. The paper-boy
whistled once more, and pulled
the paper-laden billycart over to
the gate.
CJHE closed the door and
crossed the living-room,
conscious that the flat now had
its characteristic Sunday-morn-
ing aroma of fresh news-
print and another far-from-
fresh vinaceous scent which
emanated from Teddy Mar-
shall, who lay precariously
on the sdge of the lounge. She
shook him, but overestimated
her gentleness. He rolled slowly
off the lounge, and met the floor
with a scarcely-audible thump
without waking. Mrs. Marshall
regarded him with the troubled
vacuity of the glassed-off
morning sky ; then proceeded to
the bedroom.
Mr. Marshall was still asleep.
His greying head almost wholly
submerged in a pillow, and his
lean form curled catlike under
the blankets, did not provoke the
irritation she usually felt when
observing him asleep in the day-
light hours. Sunday, of course,
was different. Sleep on Sunday
did not imply waste of time and
loss of money, as it did on week-
days. This understanding of her
mood shocked her, and she
looked at her husband with
forced compassion.
Lord, it wasn’t as if he’d been
ill deliberately—and pleurodynia
was no holiday. But if only he’d
realised earlier that something
was wrong; had it checked
before it could get a grip on
him . . There was no point in
thinking about it.
She went into the kitchenette
and put on the electric jug.
While its soft purr vibrated in the
small room, she glanced idly
through the paper. City Markets
.. . Nightclub .. . Jap Wives .. .
Beer Shortage ... Youth Stabbed
in Darlinghurst; it reminded her
of a joke Teddy told her . . .
Lottery Results . . .
There was no reference to any
council plan to demolish the
houses in Fern-street, but this in
no way alleviated her anxiety.
No, if anything, it suggested that
the council was working silently
and insidiously on a campaign of
atomic-bomb secrecy and of
similar magnitude. The sly
underhandedness of the whole
thing infuriated her, and she
splashed a great deal of boiling
water over the table as she made
the tea.
She took a cup of tea in to
her husband, who opened one
eye, acknowledged it, then
relapsed into sleep. She left the
paper, and the tea, on the bed-
side table, and, on returning to
the kitchenette, found Teddy
leaning against the door-jamb.
“You’d better clean-up,” she
told him. “I’d hate your father
to see you like that.”
He murmured something
unintelligible, picked up the
electric kettle and went out. She
heard his footsteps rasp the coir-
s matting and the sleazy squeak
of the bathroom-door. Then,
remembering the council, she
crossed the hall and leaned into
the bathroom.
“Did you hear any more about
the demolition plan?”
He placed a recently-lit
cigarette on the side of the wash-
stand and started working up a
lather on his jaw.
“No. I’m beginning to think it
was just talk.”
“I wish I could think so. I’m
that worried. And you don’t
help things, either.” She glared
at his crumpled sports-trousers,
and his bare back where a dying
tan was blotched with patterns
of peeling skin. “Every Satur-
day night”
“I gotter have some recrea-
tion.”
“It doesn’t have to be that
kind.”
“Arr, what’s the cliff.? I can
afford it.”
“Don’t be too sure of that.
With your father ill and the place
likely to be pulled down on us
any minute”
“Hell! Look, I’m working ...
aren’t I? I’ve got the same job
I always had, I’m getting the
same dough I got when I started,
and I’m doing the same bloody
things day after day after day.
What the devil are you worrying
about? If you really want some-
thing to chew over, read the
write-up on Tommy Speigal.”
“The what?”
“It’s in this morning’s paper.”
“When did you see the paper?”
“I picked one up on the way
home. It’s on the couch.”
“You might have told me. I
needn’t have bothered getting
one if I’d known.” The reproach
was lost on him. “What about
Tommy Speigal?”
“It’s under Youth Stabbed in
Darlinghurst. He was stabbed
in a lot of places, but Darling-
hurst was the locality.”
r T'HE picture had the stark
darkness of a radiophoto-
graph ; it didn’t look much like
Tommy, which was why she had
missed it in her perusal of the
paper. The news-item, which
contained little more than the
information that Speigal was a
petty crook, well-known in
Sydney and Melbourne before
his demise, didn’t seem like
Tommy either. Far more dis-
tressing than his death was the
fact that she found it so hard
to reconcile the Tommy of her
recollections with the Tommy
depicted so unsympathetically in
picture and words.
He had been standing on the
veranda of the Marshall’s house
at Lane Cove when Mrs.
Marshall arrived home from her
last day at the munitions factory.
She was reflecting that peace,
though pleasant, would neverthe-
less be unremunerative, and her
mood was such that she barely
acknowledged the young man’s
courteous greeting. He intro-
duced himself —Thomas Speigal,
from Melbourne, up in Sydney
on business, looking for accom-
modation. Teddy, whom he’d
met in a —er —cafe, had sug-
gested that she might be able to
put him up. A pause and
diffident, ingratiating smile.
Mrs. Marshall surveyed him,
critically. His mouth made the
“on business” a pretension ; his
acquaintance with Teddy was
certainly no guarantee of good
character. But his conservative
clothes, his civility and his genial
self-assurance inclined her to
think that he might be up from
Melbourne on business and
looking for accommodation. If
she thought, simultaneously, of
the last pay-envelope in her
handbag, and the unoccupied
room at the back of the house,
then these were only minor
tributaries to the great stream
of maternal solicitude she sud-
denly felt for the homeless lad.
She showed him the room, mak-
ing virtuoso gestures to the
partially-crippled bed, the languid
curtains and the wardrobe which
was as prepossessing as a vertical
coffin and of similar appearance.
Mr. Speigal, having appre-
ciated the room with a swift, all-
embracing glance, stood in the
doorway fumbling in his pockets,
apparently in search of cigarettes.
He finally located them; also
his wallet, the thickness of which
caused Mrs. Marshall to sud-
denly stop her eulogy and experi-
ence one of her “giddy turns”
which caused her, unthinkingly,
to name a rental equivalent to
Mr. Marshall’s pre-war wage.
She really didn’t know what
came over her, as she told the
family, later; she would never
have dreamed of asking so much,
it was just that she was in such
a dither, so tired and confused.
But Mr. Speigal wasn’t at all
surprised; he seemed to think
the rent reasonable. Well, he
didn’t exactly say so, but he
smiled quite pleasantly when he
handed over a fortnight in
advance. And after all, it was
probably worth it, to him, to
have a decent home environment
around him, instead of the lonely
and unhygienic surroundings he
might have had to take if Mrs.
Marshall hadn’t taken pity on
him. So .. .
The urge to do her modest
best .towards alleviating the
housing-shortage possessed Mrs.
Marshall a few weeks after Mr.
(“Do call me Tommy”) Speigal
had been in residence. The back-
veranda was converted by ply-
wood partitions and Army-
disposal beds into “rooms for
ref. bus. gents.” A few of the
bus. gents had declined the
cubicles in most unrefined terms
before slouching back to their
abodes in parks and railway-
station rest-rooms, but such
brusque encounters did not
perturb Mrs. Marshall. Often
she would wake in the night, and,
hearing the stertorous thunder
on the back-veranda, would
pride herself on her acumen.
All would have been well had
she not, out of sheer kind-
heartedness, accepted as tenants
a miserably-lean returned-soldier
and his buxom, brunette wife.
Here her trust was betrayed.
For she had trusted her tenants.
She, having taken a job in a
clothing factory, had allowed
them the run of the back-
veranda. Her locking-up of the
rest of the house was really in
their interests. If the place was
burgled they, not having access
to the house itself, would not be
under suspicion. And how
egregiously was her fairness and
consideration repaid! She was
robbed—not of any material
possessions—but of the peace
and quietness essential to a ref.-
bus. - gent, atmosphere. The
brunette after six-months’ resi-
dence became the mother of
twins.
It was a terrible shock to Mrs.
Marshall. This, the reason for
the brunette’s reticence and
seclusion! And the brunette,
far from being apologetic,
seemed quite indifferent when
informed that she had grieved
her landlady by her gross decep-
tion. It was a crisis which Mrs.
Marshall met bravely. Much as
she disliked asking them to go,
she was afraid that she had to.
They refused. The horror of
discovering that human nature
could be so obdurate and
perverse nearly unnerved Mrs.
Marshall.
COULD anything have been
more unpleasant? The
notices to quit which she thrust
at them at every opportunity
were ignored; desperate, she
removed beds and bedding from
their room: they bought
mattresses and slept on the floor.
She applied to the court for an
eviction-order: they interviewed
the Fair Rents officials, and Mrs.
Marshall was subjected to a most
embarrassing conversation by
two cynical-looking men who
represented that body. But she
won out, eventually. After she
had informed a petty-session
judge that she needed the room
for an ageing aunt, the couple
were legally compelled to move.
Unfortunately the Fair Rents
people had drastically cut any
possible profits from the rooms
for refined business gents. Mrs.
Marshall’s ingenuity, submerged
for a while in abysmal depres-
sion, surfaced suddenly with “b.
and b., ref. bus. gents,” and the
rent soared madly to meet and
enshroud the cost of additional
tea, bread and margarine that
this involved.
Throughout these trials and
vicissitudes. Tommy had been a
great comfort. On the few
occasions she saw him —he was
out all day, and often all night—
he was always ready to console
her with his precocious worldly
wisdom, the context of which
was that people—“people” being
everyone but Mrs. Marshall —
were ever-ready to take
advantage of any kindness shown
them; that the main object of
humanity was to bite the hand
that fed it, etc., and that, difficult
as it was for a woman of Mrs.
Marshall’s temperament to be
hard, that was what she would
have to be if she didn’t want to
be trampled on for the rest of
her life.
Conversations with Tommy
always refreshed and uplifted
her; there was no disloyalty to
her husband and son in acknow-
ledging that they were almost
devoid of the intelligence and
understanding that he possessed,
for they were not of his forceful,
direct nature. It sometimes
vexed Mrs. Marshall when she
thought of how little her family
was impressed by her efforts, and
how seldom they were
enthusiastic about her opinions
and plans, even though she could
console herself with the minor
victory of having persuaded
Teddy to give up contemplating
an apprenticeship on pittance-
wages. Unskilled-labor rates
were at their highest; only a fool
would ignore that. At the end
of his first week of truck-loading,
Teddy thanked her for her
advice. That he hadn’t shown
similar gratitude since was just
another feature of youth’s forget-
fulness.
The nature of Tommy’s “busi-
ness” intrigued her, but, however
tactfully she phrased her
inquiries, she couldn’t elicit any-
thing definite from him. It
wasn’t that he was evasive; it
was just that he was more
interested in her business projects
than his own. There was nothing
egotistical about Tommy. She
had confided that she was think-
ing of selling the house. She had
never really liked the place; it
was a bequest of Mr. Marshall’s
mother, and to that emotional
aspect of its undesirability was
added the fact that it was un-
attractive architecturally. She
had heard that she could get a
good price for it —not that such
a consideration lay behind her
desire to sell, but naturally she
(Continued on page 27)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
r
h
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £Z Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques )
Avoiding Kenya Troubles
New Guinea’s Highlands
By K. A. SAXBY
/“I RE the Central Highlands
r \ of New Guinea to become
I the Kenya of the Pacific,
with a Mau Mau and the
rest? It seems unlikely. Both of
these cool, pleasant. Equatorial
uplands are suited to permanent
European settlement, but their
similarities shouldn’t be allowed
to obscure their equally import-
ant differences.
Of Kenya’s 220,000 square
miles, half is lowland desert, and
only about 80,000 square miles is
reasonably well-watered high
country over 3000 ft. These
highlands are mostly wide, park-
like plains, hilly and mountain-
ous only in patches, and, if it
were not for the large native
population, nearly all suitable
for European agricultural or pas-
toral settlement.
In Kenya very large areas were
made available to whites, and
some big holdings were secured.
There are farms of 20,000 and
even 30,000 acres there today,
and, while most are much smaller
than that, the great majority are
over 2000 acres. The reserves
set aside for the natives are now
mostly inadequate, and the over-
crowded Kikuyu reserve is a hot-
bed of Mau Mau.
+ +
The high country is the home
of nearly all Kenya’s 30,000
Europeans and the majority of
its 5,000,000 natives. The capital,
Nairobi, where half the white
folk in the country live, is there.
So are most of the agriculture,
stock-raising and dairying, which
brings in nearly all the country’s
income. Essentially, the High-
lands are Kenya.
In New Guinea the Central
Highlands are a fearsomely
mountainous tangle of high,
rugged ranges and wide upland
valleys, beginning about 60 air-
miles north-west of Lae and
straddling the backbone of the
country for about 300 miles to-
wards the Dutch border. They
cover over 20,000 square miles
and hold more than 750,000
natives.
Only in the wide, grassy
valleys, where the natives are
thickest, is there any real scope
for settlement. Land for settlers
is therefore extremely limited,
because the Administration,
which alone can acquire natives’
land, must ensure that the
natives don’t and won’t need it
before buying it for lease to
settlers in 100- to 200-acre blocks.
This kills any big Kenya-style
ideas, but it probably rules out a
local Mau Mau. There are to
be no crowded, eroded reserves
cheek-by-jowl with big European
estates. The pattern of settlement
aimed at seems to be a sprink-
ling of medium-small white
coffee-growers against a back-
ground of 750,000 native-peasant
cultivators.
On this basis, there is plenty
of room for both black and
white, unless the numbers of
the blacks increase substantially.
At present, there is no sign of
this. All over the Territory the
native population generally tends
to be static. This is in marked
contrast to the position in Kenya,
where the mounting numbers of
the Africans, coupled with the
decreasing fertility of the re-
serves, is a desperately urgent
problem. Papua-New Guinea
has no need of reserves, since
96 per cent, of all the land is
still in the hands of the natives.
This proportion isn’t likely to be
much reduced, as the natives
form 99 per cent, of the Terri-
tory’s total population.
Highlands aren’t as all-im-
portant to New Guinea as to
Kenya, and it isn’t likely that
they will be so for a long time.
Coconut products, mainly copra,
from the coasts and islands,
accounted for well over half the
value of all Territorian exports
for the year 1952-53. Bulolo
gold, a long way behind, was
second, and rubber third. These
three items amount to six-
sevenths of the total export
value. Cocoa (another coastal
product) and marine-shell
covered a good deal of the
remaining seventh.
In short, three-quarters of the
Territory’s wealth comes from its
coasts and reefs. It will take
time and luck to alter this, even
if the Arabian coffee on which
the Highlands are pinning their
hopes comes up to all expecta-
tions.
Only a small proportion of
Papua-New Guinea’s Europeans
at present live in the Highlands",
about 400 out of 14,000. But
this can be expected to alter
quickly. The perpetually spring-
like climate of these upland
valleys is so different from the
steamy, hot-house lowlands and
coasts as to be another world.
More and more of the Territory’s
white folk, particularly retired
Administration officials, will find
their way there, in spite of the
very high cost of building
European-style houses.
The main cause of this bump-
ing-up of costs is the expense of
flying-in materials from Lae or
Madang. Everything has to come
in by air, at a charge ranging
from 7d. to 2s. per lb., depend-
ing on distance from one or the
other of those places. There are
special reduced rates for certain
kinds of produce flown out. But
settlers find it works out cheapest
to charter aircraft in and out,
arranging freights so any plane
chartered to bring in a cargo
will have a load of produce to
take out. In this way, costs are
shared, and they need to be, with
charter-rates ranging up to £7O
an hour, depending on the size of
the aircraft.
Air-freighting is extremely
swift and efficient, but the ex-
pense of it does amazing things
to the cost of materials in the
Highlands. It’s as well native
labor is plentiful, because the
cost of flying-in heavy machinery
and equipment to mechanise a
farm would just about put the
farm out of business, unless its
owner was in the same financial
group as Sir Edward Hallstrom.
At Goroka they find it cheaper
to roof their houses with expen-
sive, but light, aluminium, than
with the much cheaper, but
heavy, galvanised-iron.
4“ +
Fortunately the airlift is short
—the areas being settled are
only 30 to 45 minutes in from the
coast. Transport costs are re-
stricting settlement at present to
the Eastern Highlands, round
Goroka and Kainantu. The
Western Highlands will have to
wait for real settlement until less
expensive transport is available,
although one or two pioneers are
farming there already. The re-
maining high-country district,
the Southern Highlands, will
probably be the last of the three
to be settled.
To speed the opening-up of
the country, roads are being
pushed through by District Ser-
vices, and it is now possible to
jeep from Hagen in the west
through Goroka to Gusap in the
east, a distance of over 250 miles.
Work is well forward on the ex-
tension of these roads to the
coast at both Madang and Lae,
and, in fact, the road is already
through to Madang.
This is by far the longest road-
system in the Territory, and all
of it was laid down since 1950.
But even after the roads hit the
coast they will have to be made
fit for regular heavy traffic before
they can seriously challenge the
aircraft in the freight-carrying
business.
New Guinea probably never
will have the equivalent of the
Kenya and Uganda railway,
which crosses the whole breadth
of the African colony from Lake
Victoria to the Indian Ocean,
and which largely made Kenyan
settlement possible. Many hard
things have been said about this
line, but something like it
would make a tremendous differ-
ence to the New Guinea High-
lands. If by some miracle a
narrow-gauge line got up from
Lae to Goroka, it would effect
a major revolution in the Terri-
tory’s economy.
The air-distance between the
two places is only about 120
miles, and the length of such a
railway would be little more than
200 miles. But with sago-
swamps, shifting river-beds,
cliffs, chasms and mighty moun-
tains all in the path, this 200
miles is more crowded with
obstacles to railway-laying than
any 2000 miles in Australia.
Building such a line would be
a tremendous job, but maintain-
ing it, in that region of enor-
mous rainfall with its never-
ending floodings and washaways,
would be nearly as bad. The
cost of laying and keeping it
open would be very heavy, even
with native labor available. But
if railways are ever to be built
in New Guinea, this should be
the first.
With all their transport diffi-
culties, the Territory’s Highland
settlers are confident of success.
They are not there to make their
fortunes, but to make their
homes. Like the Kenyans, they
hope to be there for keeps. And
if the Kenyans in this respect
succeeded, so should they.
They are spared many of
Africa’s woes. They have no
need to fight against tsetse-fly,
rinderpest, locust plagues, of,
perhaps worst of all, drought.
Kenya is very slowly drying-
up, The snows of Kilimanjaro
are receding. Lake-levels are
falling, swamps are drying, and
bore-holes on the big stock-
farms are failing. In New
Guinea’s Highlands this is a
very far-off worry. The annual
average is 90 to 120 inches, in
places much more. If anything,
it is a little too wet. Sheep so
far have been a small and costly
experiment of very doubtful
value, and wheat, which grows
well in Kenya, would stand little
chance in New Guinea. But
dairy-cattle should do well when
pastures have been improved and
the most suitable strain for local
conditions discovered.
One of Kenya’s most lucra-
tive money-spinners New Guinea
must always lack —wild animals.
There are no lions, leopards, ele-
phants, hippos and the rest to
tempt wealthy sportsmen from
all over the world. Nobody is
likely to pay handsomely to go
on safari against the Territory’s
pigs, possums and bandicoots.
Even the crocodile of the coast
is missing in the Highlands,
though there are few regrets on
this score.
The settlers themselves are too
busy to worry about lack of
wildlife. They are kept occupied
by the peanuts, potatoes, passion-
fruit and other small crops that
are keeping the pot boiling until
the coffee-bushes bear. There is
a ready sale for Highland-grown
European vegetables on the coast
and islands, though the market is
limited. The passionfruit is
handled at a cannery at Goroka.
The peanuts, which have the ad-
vantage over the Australian pro-
duct of an all-year growing-
season, mostly go south. AH
these are thought of as sidelines
to King Coffee, but they will
play a big part in developing the
area.
+ *+■
The 30 or 40 pioneer farmers
up there —for there are no more
than that actually on the land —
are starting much the same kind
of thing that was started in
Kenya 50 years ago —a perman-
ent European community in a
predominantly native setting
but they are in a position to profit
by Kenya’s mistakes. Probably
the worst of these was the over-
alienation of native lands. The
sft. pot-bellied Highland war-
riors, who still fight tribal
battles and attack patrols in out-
lying parts, are not as far ad-
vanced as the politically-con-
scious African Kikuyus, but they
would probably be capable of
the same anti-white reaction if
they were in the same position
as the Kikuyus. However, under
present conditions land-grabbing
from the natives would be about
the last sin permitted or com-
mitted in New Guinea,
Another serious blunder by
Kenya and some other African
countries was the permanent set-
tlement of Asiatics. There are
100,000 Indians in Kenya; a
prolific, demanding, and
politically-restless race, gradually
cornering the colony’s trade and
irritating the ticklish relations
between whites and natives. It
will be an ominous day if White
Australia ever allows New
Guinea’s small Asiatic (luckily
Chinese) community of 3000 to
be augmented from outside.
Another Kenyan misfortune,
but hardly its fault, is the native
ownership of millions of cattle,
sheep and goats. These hungry,
underfed beasts, rarely allowed
to die of anything but old age or
starvation, crop the grass to the
roots and are the prime cause
of the terrible erosion in the
reserves. If natives in the grassy
hntimbered N.G. Highland val-
leys are to become stock-owners,
numbers and types of stock
should be limited and supervised.
An even bigger error, not
limited to Kenya, is the en-
couraging of population-increase
without due regard to the carry-
ing-capacity of the land. The
results in Africa are malnutri-
tion and semi-starvation due to
overpopulation, for surplus
human beings can’t be killed-off
like cattle - Papua-New Guinea,
with only eight persons per
square mile, is usually looked
upon as having plenty of spare
room, but in fact there are huge
unproductive areas of mountain,
jungle and swamp. The natives
all live in small, scattered vil-
«ch u ° £ it * own
adjustments to keep it
withjn its J natural
resources. The
people must get education, but
the interests of progress and
t country up” should
allowed to interfere
fundame primitive
eC cmomv
8 j Dart Jm arlv true in the
TJata P^
Highlands, where halt the lern
area A ZZ &
of population there could bring
“ “
, Papua-New Guinea will
always be a predominantly
nabve CO untry, and because of
th j s tbe wb j te pioneering in the
m ii e . b ig b valleys of the High-
jands j s particularly important
Australia—but there isn’t
muc h encouragement from Aus-
tralia. The only valuable co-
operation the settlers get is from
the local Administration officials.
particularly the District Corn-
missioner at Goroka, whose re-
markable job of road-building
will soon connect every im-
portant Highland centre with
the coast, and bring in sight the
solution of the transport prob-
lem.
Aircraft have done an indis-
pensable job in o pening-up the
countryj but they will need
gro und-’transport to help bring in
j be heavy equipment and supplies
required by a growing farming
community, especially fertiliser,
Leached of nitrates and potash
by the heavy rainfall. Highland
soil is going to need a good deal
of fertiliser, and it would break
the average settler to have to
keep flying it in.
» »
T »
Indeed, the difficulty for him
is to get hold of money for
development at all. There is no
loan scheme, and banks a?e shy
of his leasehold tenure in a U.N.
T t Territory Kenvan settlers
were allowed' freehold and
financial assistance for their big
holdings. There seems no
reason why the new Highlanders
shouldnh the same for their
small ones, which are, and will
be, such a tiny proportion of the
total area. Also, they need some
guarantee against the wholesale
dumping of foreign coffee in
Australia, provided they can
supply the goods themselves.
These are all very modest re-
quests which the Commonwealth
Government might well consider.


A
Jiff\
A.C.A. policies
V
a
For
* LIFE
* FIRE
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER'!
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
* MOTOR
VEHICLES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.,
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street, Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
SPORTING NOTIONS
Karendi 'seemed a good thing
for the Doomben Ten Thousand,
despite his 9.9. But it rained,
and on a dead track the weight—
almost a welter impost—was too
much, and he finished in the
ruck. Despite the conditions,
punters sent him to the post
favorite at 4 to 1; of the big
field only two others were inside
10’s. Backing a favorite pre-post
in a big race is always a tricky
business.
Bookmakers did well when
20-to-l Sydney sprinter Nagpuni
beat Rapid River and Lord
Bosworth. Nagpuni was flown
to Brisbane three days before
the race. He had been beaten in
two Sydney sprints, and for a
time it was doubtful whether he
would go north. This doubt
resulted in Nagpuni’s usual
jockey. Bill Cook, accepting
engagements at Warwick Farm,
where he had no luck. But Cook
talked tactics to Newcastle jockey
Bill Wade before the latter flew
to Brisbane, to score his most
important success to date. Les
Quinlan trains Nagpuni at Rand-
wick. The Doomben-winner won
at Canterbury a month ago at
20 to 1.
Highlights of Australian racing
this Saturday will be the £3500
Grand National Steeplechase at
Flemington and the £lO,OOO
Doomben Cup at B.A.T.C.’s
Brisbane headquarters. In the
spectacular ’chase, horses from
Victoria and other southern
States will compete, but at
Doomben entrants include horses
from Brisbane, Sydney, Mel-
bourne and New Zealand.
Backers of the favorite in the
Doomben Cup haven’t found it
a profitable system. In recent
years the only winning favorites
were Bernborough (7 to 4 on in
1946) and Repshot (3 to 1 in
1945). Winners included French
Echo, last season, at 10’s ; Tossing
at 9’s ; Forge and Rio Fe both
at B’s; and a rank outsider,
Dream, at 50’s in 1950.
Champion of his year, Bern-
borough carried the welter-
weight of 10.11 to a victory
which included a penalty for
success in the Doomben New-
market of 10.5. Visiting horses
have been much in the Doomben
Cup spotlight in recent years.
It is expected that the New
Zealanders will be prominent at
the finish of the Doomben Cup.
Paper Strip might win from
Rising Fast and Tesla.
With three successive wins
alongside his name prior to the
running of the Grand National
Hurdle at Flemington, Story-
time was the form horse of the
race, but he didn’t start favorite,
unplaced Solar Bleu being the
elect.
Few at Flemington could recall
any prior National-winner lead-
ing throughout the three miles
over the 15 hurdles. But Belar,
in 1933, recorded a similar feat.
Horses carrying under lOst. have
won the last five Nationals.
Cheery Jack from Sydney won
with 11.7, in 1940; this was the
highest weight carried to victory
over the past 40 years. As Story-
time had only 9.6 jockey E.
(“Nipper”) Anderson made full
use of his mount’s pace. Before
his G.N. win over Raratonga and
Sidlaw, Storytime had won at
Moonee Valley, Caulfield and
Geelong.
Abbuna won his first race, the
Warwick Farm Villawood
Novice, at 40 to 1, after a few
last-minute bets were set at 66’s.
Abbuna was ridden by T. Hill,
who hasn’t enjoyed much suc-
cess since coming to Sydney
from Brisbane several months
ago.
Royal Lancer, a winner of the
English and the Irish St. Legers,
and runner-up in the Newmarket
Jockey Club Cup, figures in the
pedigree of Warwick Farm
Maiden winner, Wilruna. Wil-
runa was bought for 675 guineas
at the 1952 Randwick yearling
sales and is raced by Mrs. A.
Barnes and W. J. Bradshaw. He
is a three-year-old gelding by
Parhelion (imp.).
• • • •
Bred at St. Albans stud, Gee-
long (Vic.), Honeyflow, winner
of the Flemington Myross Han-
dicap is a two-year-old filly by
Ottoman (imp.), from Rose
Princess by Gay Lothario (imp.),
and is thus from a three-quarter
sister to Lucrative, winner of up-
wards of £20,000 in stakes. The
filly cost 1500gns. as a yearling,
the bid of H. M. Anderson,
who races her. Some weeks ago
the filly was placed at Fleming-
ton and at 7 to 1 some tidy bets
were noted against her name last
Saturday. Veteran jockey Les
Whittle rode the winner in vigor-
ous style, and had a welcome
change of city luck. He does
quite a lot of riding in Vic-
torian country districts. Honey-
flow is a stable companion of the
brilliant Flying Halo, their men-
tor being New Zealander O. N.
Marshall. Balkan Prince is in-
cluded in Honeyflow’s blood-
lines.
Liberal King narrowly scored
in the Warwick Farm Homestead
Handicap. He has shown con-
sistency with three wins from the
last five starts. The week prior
to his success he was blocked
when making a run behind
“Under the regulations I'll have to throw you back.”
Humid in the L, G. Fraser Han-
dicap. Close observers of the
incident profited by backing
Liberal King for last Saturday’s
race. Early bets were set at 9
to 2, but the Canterbury-trained
galloper started at 7 to 2. He is
expected to be one of the popu-
lar fancies for the S.T.C. Cup
on July 31 at Rosehill. Humid
was the closest of seconds to
Liberal King with the disappoint-
ing favorite, Royal Eagle, third.
In running the mile and three
furlongs in 2 minutes 16 seconds.
Liberal King made a track record
for the distance. It was within
one second of the best for Aus-
tralia, standing to the credit of
Gallant Archer, now in Bris-
bane for the Doomben Cup.
Priory (finished fifth) was pre-
vious holder of the Farm record.
There must be a big number
of two-year-olds in training in
Brisbane because the B.A.T.C.
staged three events for that age
on the opening day of the Doom-
ben carnival. As all three winners
were heavily backed, punters
were quite happy over the
early result. Outsiders then won
three of the subsequent five
races. One of the winners was
Earldom; this New Zealander
had filled various minor places in
three Australian States. It was
exactly a year ago, in the same
event, that Earldom lost the race
on protest to Sweet William.
Australian racegoers are accus-
tomed to seeing “imp.” after a
sire’s name, and now they may
see “U. 5.,” as an American sire,
Flying Missel, first American-
bred sire to be imported for
many years, has been secured by
the Widden Stud, Kerrabee
(N.S.W.). Winner of more than
£(A)55,000 in stakes, Flying
Missel is related to Stymie, a
former world-record stakes-
winner, and for a while holder
of the world-record time for a
mile and a quarter. (Noor is now
holder of that record, Imin.
58|sec.).
When the bay filly by Blank
(imp.) from Lenore Maid was
paraded at the Randwick year-
ling sales in March, 1951, highest
bid, 400 gns., was declined by
Whittingham studmaster P. E.
Brown. She has raced as Weralas,
but it was not until a couple of
weeks ago that she won her first
race in a modest field of
maidens at Wyong. She belongs
to the’ same family as Sweet
Lady, who was a smart two-year-
old ; winner of the Gimcrack
Stakes and the Maribyrnong
Plate.
If Sir Gordon Richards ad-
heres to his decision to retire at
the end of the present racing
season in November, he might
take his winning tally to close
on 5000 wins. At last weekend
his total was 4864, the list in-
cluding one Derby. His winning
total is a world’s record. Ameri-
can Johnny Longden, who has
been seen in action in this coun-
try, has ridden upwards of 4000
winners. Richards has been
leading English jockey on 26
occasions, and several times had
a sequence of more than five
winners. In October, 1933, he
rode 11 consecutive winners.
Australia’s tennis “Big Four”
were the four semi-finalists in the
Queen’s Club tournament, held
just before Wimbledon, with
Hoad beating Rose in the final.
Facing much stiffer opposition at
Wimbledon, only Rosewall
reached the semis. Rosewall, the
classical perfectionist, played
superbly to defeat Trabert, one
of the strongest exponents of
present-day “power” tennis, in
their semi-final; but he was
beaten at his own game in the
final by a master tactician, the
exiled Czech Jaroslav Drobny.
The doubles went to Rose and
Hartwig, who defeated the
Americans Trabert and Seixas
6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4 —despite that
Rose in the second set served
four double-faults in the one
game! The American pair had
knocked-out Hoad and Rosewall
in a semi-final. Rose-Hartwig
now hold just about all the major
world’s doubles-titles, and at this
early stage look the likely
doubles-combination in the next
Davis Cup final.
Having taken the Wimbledon
singles championship, Jaroslav
Drobny, as a school of writers
would put it, must “feel good.”
He’s had 11 tries, and was runner-
up to Ted Schroeder in 1949
and to Frank Sedgman in 1952.
This time he beat Ken Rosewall
in four sets, 13-11, 4-6, 6-2, 9-7.
He’s 33.
* * a
Add to the list two more out-
standing athletic feats by a young
Australian swimster Lorraine
Crapp’s knocking of B.2sec. off
the world-record 880yds. time
(her time llmin. o.4sec.) and, a
few days later, setting new world
time for the 440yds. in a 55yd,
pool (smin. llsec.). The 15-
year-old lassie made them at
Townsville (Q.), where, with
Australia’s other topline
swimmers, she was finishing her
training for the Empire Games.
* * *
The Englishmen’s win in the
second Rugby League Test at
Brisbane (38-21) wasn’t alto-
gether unexpected, earlier form
notwithstanding. But the margin,
and the Australians’ collapse in
the second-half, were on the
spectacular side. Churchill had
an off-day; and State and Aus-
tralian teams rely a good deal
on Churchill. Holman, too, was
below average, and five-eighth
Sullivan (who has been dropped
from the N.S.W. team to play the
Chooms next Saturday) wasn’t
in the same class as English
captain Williams, who combined
beautifully with Helme; and
with the centres, who gave
Boston the ball; and the
forwards did everything neces-
sary, in tight play and in the
loose. Taken all round, it was
England’s day. Australia was
weak in the second-row. There
should be a good crowd for the
third Test.
• • • •
Jones, the English fullback,
outclassed Churchill, and con-
tributed 20 points. Four years
ago, playing for the British Isles
Rugby Union team against
Australia on the same ground,
Jones scored 17 points. For all
that, when contemporary League-
fanciers are greybeards full of
reminiscences, Churchill will be
one of the “greats” of the code
in this country, with Dally
Messenger, George Treweeke
and company,
* * *
It’s sufficient comment on the
evenness of the V.F.L. competi-
tion that three of “the four” were
beaten last Saturday. The two
top teams, Footscray and Colling-
wood, clashed, ’Wood, at home,
winning 12.10-10.12. The other
two. North and Richmond, went
down respectively to Melbourne
and Essendon —North easily
the Tigers in a
“thriller” by three points (13.9-
13.6). In the other games
Geelong walloped South (17.12-
9.10); St. Kilda had its first win
in the last five rounds, over
Carlton (12.10 - 9.16); and
Hawthorn just got there against
improved Fitzroy (11,15-11.10).
Despite the aforementioned
defeats, the only change in “the
four” is that the Cats replace the
Tigers.
* * *
The froth and pomp of the
big games departing with the
Fijians, Sydney Rugby Union
settled-down to club games,
attended by the faithful few.
University went back to the lead
with a 28-3 win over Randwick,
and the defeat of St. George by
Gordon. In the University-
Randwick game the versatile
Tooth played as five-eighth and
scored 19 points. Gordon won
their game 16-12. In other
games. Manly beat Parramatta
10-8, Eastwood beat Drummoyne
17-16, Eastern Suburbs beat
Northern Suburbs 20-6.
The Fijians, after beating Aus-
tralia the week before, were
beaten by Auckland, 39-3. But
the Fijians have probably had
enough Rugby for a while.
“Tom”: Before they left Aus-
tralia, the Fijians played a
Western Division (N.S.W.) team
at Orange. Nearly half (six) of
the team picked came from one
club, Yeoval. A seventh Yeoval
man was chosen as a reserve.
Yeoval is only a tiny place, but
fields three teams in the Western
Zone competition. This year the
club secured the use of 100 acres
of land and sowed it with wheat.
Members and supporters supplied
labor and machinery.
♦ * ♦
Southpaw Russell Sands (9.0)
struck a tartar in Billy Mc-
Connell’s protege, Ned Wilson
(9.3|), at Leichhardt. Ned
stopped Russ in round eight,
after the southpaw had copped
a lacing, but at first it looked the
other way round. Sands started
briskly, his gloves flying so fast
that he seemed sure of victory.
Wilson was well behind on
points, but in round six Sands
was shaken by innumerable rights
to the head. Wilson was knocked
back to the ropes in round seven,
but he kept hitting Sands with
his right in round eight, then
dropped him for a count of
seven; on his feet again, a left
and a right put Sands down for
nine. When another dexter
delivery dropped him, referee
Jack Burns intervened to declare
Wilson the winner.


“Did you have a good time,
Jane?” asked Pen lazily. “Did
you see anything?”
The middle door was flung
open. “Ha,” said the father.
“Back again?” He glared at the
mother. “You look like a
washerwoman,” he said dis-
approvingly. “Careering off up
the street to look at a motor-car.
As though you haven’t seen
hundreds.” Then, with a com-
plete change of tone, “Marian,
did you tell your mother I want
paste?”
“No, she has not. Surely you
haven’t used all the paste I made
you yesterday!”
“I said I wanted new paste,
and I want it. If you must know,
and I suppose you’ll keep at me
about it, the sergeant came sniff-
ing around the place and said if
I didn’t get a new pot he’d report
me to the health inspector.” The
father looked delighted. He
rubbed the top of his balding
head dreamily, “It is pretty
high,” he said. Then he remem-
bered the deplorable state of
affairs in the office, and scowled.
“I don’t suppose you heard
any news?”
“I did,” said Jane importantly.
“So that’s why you went tear-
ing off,” cried the father, en-
lightenment coming immediately.
“I was looking for news,” said
Jane promptly. “And I saw Mr.
Preedy drunk as drunk and try-
ing to fight with the sergeant.”
“Well, what’s news about
that?” demanded the father. “If
you’d seen him sober at this time
of the day it would have been
news.”
“And I saw Matilda Brennan
with her baby.”
“Ha,” said the father, looking
sideways at the mother.
“Oh, don’t be silly,” said
Marian. “You’re only fibbing
now, Jane, Tilda isn’t mar-
ried.”
“That’s right,” agreed Jane.
“And her mother’s mad about
it. And I heard her telling Mrs.
Symington that if she can lay her
hands on the father she’ll wring
his bloody neck,”
“Jane!” cried the mother,
shocked. “I don’t want to hear
any more. You shouldn’t say
such things.”
“I didn’t say it,” said Jane
indignantly. “Mrs. Brennan said
it. ‘His bloody neck,’ she said.
And Mrs. Symington said he de-
served it. Why? The baby
looked so pretty.”
“You certainly have been
keeping your ears open,” the
father said, his depression con-
siderably lessened. “Now,
Madam, what else did you see or
hear? You seem to be the only
one in this house who keeps her
eyes open.”
Jane looked crestfallen. “I
can’t think of anything else,” she
said disconsolately, as though she
had betrayed her father’s faith
in her.
“Think now,” commanded the
father. “You must have seen
something else. Now what else?”
“Wel-1-1,” she said slowly;
then her face brightened. “Oh,-
yes, I saw a funeral.”
The father was amazed, “A
funeral. Impossible!” He im-
plied that no one could die, let
alone be buried without his
knowing of it in advance,
“There was the hearse, all nice
and clean, and the two piebalds.
And there was the minister’s car,
and there was a lady in it crying.
That lady with the red hair you
say looks like a cockatoo.”
The father was immediately
aghast. “Mrs, Wellsey! ”
“Oh, dear, no,” said the
mother, very upset. “Where’s a
chair? I must sit down, I feel
all giddy,”
“Yes, that’s right,” cried Jane,
now well in her stride. “And I
heard Mr. Carter say he wasn’t
at all surprised to hear of the
accident; that he’d always
known that old Wellsey had been
dead from the neck up for a long
time. And the man with him
said that the bend was a death
trap. And that he was real sorry
to hear that old Jim had been
killed and that the Show
wouldn’t be the same without
him. And the new car was be-
hind the minister’s car with Mr.
Halliday in it beside the nasty
man and some men in the back.
And I saw Mr. Rothsay in-his
buggy, and Mr. Linsey in his
sulky and Mr. Tomkins in his,
and Mr. Sands on his motor-
bike, with Mrs. Sands behind
him.”
“How dreadful! And at a
funeral, too,” whispered the
mother, shocked to the marrow.
“That woman becomes more vul-
gar every day. Fancy going to a
funeral on the back of a motor-
bike!”
“And her knees were all show-
ing!” cried Jane, her eyes shin-
ing.
The father had nothing to say.
He was too overcome. He stood
staring out the open window at
the road as it wandered on its
pot-holey way past the school-
paddock. As he gazed, the hearse
swept by, more like Cinderella’s
coach approaching the ball-room
than a hearse returning from a
funeral. Mr. Clifton bobbed up
and down on the high seat as
though he were enjoying him-
self hugely (which he was) and
the two high-spirited horses
waved their tails with graceful
abandon and rolled their eyes.
“There he is now,” cried the
father. “Now, Marian, you run
up as fast as you can and ask
him whose funeral it was. Come
straight back. I’ll try and get
Halliday on the ’phone.” As he
went into the office, he com-
plained bitterly. “No one tells
me anything.”
“Can I go, too?” demanded
Jane.
“Certainly not,” said the
mother.
Although Marian’s return
from Clifton’s was speedy, she
hesitated at the office-steps and
then instead of mounting them
she ran to the side-entrance of
the house. “Oh, Mummy,” she
cried from the front-door, “Mr.
Clifton was only washing the
hearse in the creek in case he
does need it soon, but he says
everyone looks so healthy he
thinks he’ll soon be out of busi-
ness.”
FOR a long time the mother
could not speak. At last,
“Oh, Jane!” she reproached
tremulously. “What am I going
to do? There’s your father in
there probably writing the obitu-
ary. What am I going to say.”
“It was all his fault,” stated
Jane, imperturbable because
danger, in the form of her father,
was still on the other side of the
door. “He kept asking me, and
I didn’t like to disappoint him.
And any rate Mrs. Wellsey was
crying, and Mr. Carter did say
that.”
“Oh, I just can’t face your
father,” said the unhappy
mother. Marian said valiantly,
“I’ll go. I don’t mind if he
roars at me.”
“But what will you say ?”
“I’ll say something,” said
Marian vaguely.
She went the long way round
so that she would have more time
to think. She was just lifting a
faltering foot to place it on the
first step when a small, rotund
man clad in hilarious check-
trousers and a striped blazer
came racing around the corner
and, crouched like a skier,
ascended the steps in two mighty
leaps. Marian, catching sight of
the huge green bandana tucked
inside his shirt, and the snow-
white walrus moustache, knew
with certainty that this was none
other than Mr. Wellsey. She
followed him with trepidation,
but insatiable curiosity; and
heard him booming:
“Am I too late? Hold every-
thing, Venables! Stop press! ”
She poked her nose around the
door to find her father, the
green shade pushed back above a
pair of amazed eyes, regarding
the puffing, red-faced Mr.
Wellsey as though he were a
ghost. “You’re alive,” he said
at last, and then burst out laugh-
ing. “Look at that,” he cried, “I
was just writing your obituary,"
Mr. Wellsey obviously thought
that this was a joke directed at
his tardiness, for he said, “Yes,
I know all about that, old man ;
but blame that damn fellow who's
scooting around the country in
that she-devil car of his. Forty
miles he was going if he was
going one, when I met him at
Hugh’s S-bend yesterday after-
noon, and he put us over the
side, buggy, missus and all.
“And Jim! Poor old Jim! I’ll
remember it till the day I die,
Venables. A shaft right through
him, clean as a whistle. And the
b just stands there and says
he’ll buy me a new horse. I’ve
had old Jim since he was foaled,
and you know as well as I that
there wasn’t a horse in the district
could hold a candle to him. Why
for eight years he’s carried off
the blue in his class. Well, I
can tell you this. You can
strike my name from the com-
mittee, because I’ve seen my last
Plateau Show.”
Flabbergasted, the father
stared at the distressed man.
Before he had time to offer his
sympathy, Wellsey cried, “But
here! Give this to Dick to get
on with, and then I’ll tell you all
about it. Now don’t say you
haven’t the space. Real news
there. Half a column of it.
If you’ve got to cut anything out,
throw that parson’s dirge into the
wastepaper basket. God, it gives
me the gripes. And there’s my
letter. Don’t try to get out of
printing that, old fellow.”
The father took the two fat
envelopes from the freckled
hand. He ripped them open, and
ran his licked thumb through the
pages. “You know it’s going on
for three, Jim ” he said. He
pretended that he was trying to
decide whether he could squeeze
the stuff in or not; but Marian
could see by the way he rubbed
his free hand over his smiling
lips that there was really no
decision to be made. Necessity
waited like a hungry wolf in the
linotype’s metal-pot.
“Davey,” bellowed the father,
“take this over to Dick.” He
turned to Wellsey, “Now what
is this about being put over the
cutting, Jim? I better make a
par. of it.”
“A par.! A par.!” cried
Wellsey, almost dancing with
rage. “I’ve written the whole
thing. As I came down in the
Bora mail. And don’t say Dick
won’t be able to read it. Good
God, man, if he can read your
writing he can read anything.
And I expect you to write a
leader for next issue. What do
these fellows from Sydney think
they are, dashing around like
high-powered comets? I’m get-
ting up a petition demanding that
the speed-limit on winding roads
be nothing more than ten miles
an hour, and that’s eight too
many!
“Why, my wife is still prostrate
from shock. The minister’s taken
her home, and I can see I won't
be getting her back to Bora for
several days at least. But will
that cad come and cook for me?
No, he’ll be going on his merry
way, causing more and more
accidents and more and more
trouble. I caught sight of him
just as I got out at Halliday’s,
and I can tell you I’ve just
finished giving him the greatest
verbal thrashing he’s ever had.
Ask HaUiday. He’ll tell you.
That bloody high-pressure sales-
man couldn’t get a word in.”
THE father’s dancing eyes
roved towards the door, and
instantly Marian melted like a
wraith. Back once more in the
house, she said, “Mr. Wellsey
is in there. With a lot of news.”
“Did you tell your father there
wasn’t a funeral at all?”
“No. He’s forgotten about it.”
“But he’ll remember when he
comes out tonight. Oh, dear,
oh, dear, what shall I do?”
Marian said slowly, “Why
don’t you go over to the coffee-
palace as soon as Mr. Webster
gets out of the bank and ask him
to tea. Daddy likes him. And
then you can tell Mr, Webster
all about it in front of Daddy as
though it’s a joke and then
Daddy’ll think it’s funny, too,
and we won’t hear any more
about it.”
Suddenly the mother began to
smile. “I think that is very clever
of you, darling,” she said. “I’ll
get tidied right away. Yes, I
think that’s a very good idea.”
And so it was proved, for Jane
was not punished nor the mother
harassed. And what was more
the father never realised that he
had fallen a victim to the wiles
of women.
should sell at a good time, if she
sold at all. Didn’t he think so?
Naturally, he did.
She’d heard of a block of flats
which might be up for sale.
Admittedly, they were on the
fringe of an industrial area, but
that wouldn’t really be a dis-
advantage. If she got a job in
one of the factories, there would
be no tram- or bus-fares to
consider. Tommy thought that
a worth-while point.
She remembered discussing
the block of flats with Tommy
Speigal one evening after a
heated dispute with her husband
about the sale of the house. She
outlined her reasons to him, as
she had done to Mr. Marshall
but with fewer irrelevancies and
personal references, but she was
alarmed to see that he was not
giving her his usual absorbed
attention. He sat on the edge of
the bed, gripping the mattress
with peculiar intensify. His face
seemed pale behind the heavy
cloud of cigarette smoke.
She went on a trifle uncer-
tainly, pointing out the advan-
tages of her scheme during which
the door-bell rang lustily.
She jumped, but not to the
height that Tommy attained.
Before she could collect her
thoughts and prepare herself for
the unexpected, she was aware
of-Mr. Marshall standing in the
doorway, and beyond him two
men in navy-blue uniforms, the
buttons of which had an
ominous lambence in the dim hall.
OF course it was a mistake —a
ghastly, ridiculous mistake
—to accuse a boy of Tommy’s
character of anything meretri-
cious. Vehemently, she delivered
a panegyric to the bored-looking
officers of the Children’s Court,
but to no avail. After he’d been
convicted, she sent protesting
letters to the papers. These never
appeared in print, owing, per-
haps, to the fact that she omitted
to affix her name and address to
them. But she did her best for
him.
Yet, contained in this sombre
cloud, was the inevitable small-
change. The scandal which
Tommy’s enforced departure had
caused among the neighbors
made Mr. Marshall more amen-
able to the selling of the house.
The transaction was made, and
on the very day that Mrs.
Marshall was supervising the
loading of her furniture on to the
van, a letter arrived from
Tommy. Such a poignant letter,
compounded of bitterness,
protest, undying gratitude to
Mrs. Marshall for her kindness
towards him, and a hint of
maudlin remorse towards the
end, that it made the recipient
extremely melancholy. Added
to the regret that she already
felt over having to leave the ice-
chest, stove and window-blinds
behind to satisfy the “partly-
furnished” clause, it was no
wonder that her arrival at Fern-
street was not the jubilant
occasion she’d anticipated.
Mr. Gray, who had learned
by Heaven alone knew what
means, about the upstairs flat,
dissuaded her from dividing it
into flatettes. He was gentleman
enough not to refer directly to
“key money,” but naturally
forked-out something for the
privilege of having all that space
to himself and his wife. He was
also agreeable to having only
one-third of the rental described
on the rent-receipts. All in all,
he looked like an admirable
tenant, and the flat became his.
A constant worry to Mrs.
Marshall was the waste-space of
the basement, which,
seemed beyond renovation. She
allowed the Devereaux family to
move in, not only because Mr.
Devereaux was a bar-acquaint-
ance of Teddy’s, but because
only people of the Devereaux
type would be prepared to live
in a basement, and the rent from
it, though necessarily small,
showed that it was not being
entirely wasted.
She had several more letters
from Tommy Speigal—epistles
which depressed her very much
—before the one-sided corres-
pondence ceased altogether. She
hoped that he would come and
see her when they let him out. It
would be pleasant to talk to him,
again. Her husband and son,
with the sulky silence of the sick
and the taciturnity of the tired,
respectively, did not provide the
atmosphere of cheerfulness and
camaraderie which she craved.
She was wondering whether she
should write informing him of
her change of address —all his
letters had been readdressed
from Lane Cove —when a sinister
rumor swept the matter com-
pletely from her mind. The
council intended to demolish the
houses in Fern-street, in the hope
of providing a broad expanse of
park around the district I
It was impossible to ascertain
whether there was any truth in
the rumor. None of her
neighbors had heard about it;
none seemed to care very much
whether it was a possibility or
not. Shocked by their indiffer-
ence, she was further shocked to
discover that her family’s attitude
was identical with theirs.
A terrible prospect for Mrs.
Marshall, that a monument to
years of hard work should be
razed to the ground!
TEDDY had said that, now,
the rumor was “only talk.”
She did not dare to hope that he
was correct. He came in from
the hall and, stretching out on
the floor, began reading the
comics. Mrs. Marshall sat on
the couch, holding the Sunday
paper listlessly between her
fingers.
“It was terrible about
Tommy,” she said,
“Yeah.”
“I can’t believe what they say
about him. I’m sure he was
accused of lots of things he didn't
do.”
“Yeah.”
“I suppose when they find
whoever did it, it will be headline
news.”
“Mmmm.”
“And I suppose the brutes will
get off lightly, because no one
will have any sympathy for
Tommy.”
“Nnnnp.”
“If they saw those letters he
wrote from Reformatory, they’d
change their minds,” she cried,
emotionally. “They’d see that
he was misunderstood —framed.
I’ve a good mind to take them
into the newspaper office. Why
shouldn’t people know Tommy’s
side of the story?”
“Mmmmm.”
She glanced across at the half-
dozen cardboard cartons that
lined one side of the room. Mute
testimony to her loathing of dis-
carding things. Tommy’s letters
were in the second box from the
left. Near the top. She rose
and walked over to it.
“They’ll be news, all right,”
she said. “I wonder what the
papers would pay for news like
this.”
She turned to him as she spoke,
and was alarmed by the expres-
sion on his face. It was as
though he had seen something
horrible. Then his face was
suddenly averted, and she
realised that he was pounding on
the floor with his fist, as though
in the grip of some violent,
voiceless tantrum.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
h
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan jg;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804-308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
JJEW SOUTH WAi.ES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
< TELEPHONES; BU 8025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERMANY RENASCENT
“Unless we waken up quickly
to living facts, as, for instance,
we have more friends in Ger-
many alone than in all France,
Italy and Belgium lumped to-
gether ; unless we realise these
facts and act upon them quickly,
we are done.”
The words were Sir lan Hamil-
ton’s when reporting on Europe
shortly after World War I, but
had he said them today —30
years and another world war
later —he would not have been
very much out of accord with a
good deal of current thinking in
Britain and America. A con-
siderable section of the Press in
both countries is looking with
misgivings at the parlous state of
France and Communist-ridden
Italy —the two countries on which
ratification of the European De-
fence Community depends—and
speculating on alternatives to
that scheme, most of the alterna-
tives including a strong and well-
armed Germany. Depending on
it, in fact.
The remarkable nature of
Germany’s recovery since the
war has made such an examina-
tion inevitable, of course;
bombed, beaten, occupied and
partitioned as it has been, it is
now back to the stage where its
energetic export-drive all over
the world adds up to a distinct
challenge to Britain.
Foreign Trade
As a London “Daily Tele-
graph” correspondent points out,
German export trade had fallen
to 3.5 per cent, of the world total
by 1950, while Britain’s had risen
to 11.1 per cent.; by 1952
Germany’s percentage had risen
to 5.8 per cent., while Britain’s
had dropped to 10.2 per cent.
The relative figures for 1953 are
not yet available, but they are
expected to show further expan-
sion—German export values for
the year were £1,500 million,
giving a surplus of over £2OB
million.
The largest single category of
German exports in 1953 con-
sisted of engineering and
machine products—to a total
value of £333 million and going
to 153 different countries.
Chemical exports were worth
£l9l million, a 10 per cent,
increase on the - previous year’s.
The German expbrt-drive is
directed at three principal mar-
kets, the “D.T.” correspondent
continues: the traditional Ger-
man markets such as South
America, Turkey, Belgium and
the Netherlands; “the Arab
countries of the Middle East
where Germany is neither coloni-
ally nor politically involved and
therefore often enjoys commer-
cial benefits in preference to
Britain”.; and markets that were
either traditionally British or
established by Britain since the
war. The last group includes
South Africa, India and Greece
—German exports to Greece
overtook the British by 1952.
“The successes of the German
export-drive,” the “D.T.” corre-
spondent concludes, “cannot be
entirely attributed to longer-
credit offers and undercutting —
or to export-tax exemptions. In
many cases, particularly in the
sales of locomotives to India and
South Africa, German deliveries
have been quicker.
“German firms impress
foreigners by almost invariably
keeping to delivery-dates, which
is evidently not always the ex-
perience with British exporters.
German goods tend to be of
very high quality, and so are
their technicians who erect plants
abroad.”
Shipbuilding
At the same time, the German
shipbuilding industry has been so
successfully reconstructed that,
as London “Financial Times”
sees it, “despite the immense
physical destruction of the war
Germany is now Britain’s chief
rival for export orders”:
“Although in total volume
Britain is still substantially in
the lead, the figures show that
German competition is extremely
effective. At the end of last
March Germany was building
ships for 19 other countries ; the
United Kingdom was building
for only 13.
“The total tonnage then under
construction for export in Ger-
man yards was about 381,000
tons gross, or 59 per cent, of all
work then in hand. The British
export-construction was higher
at about 600,000 tons, but that
represented only 27.6 per cent,
of the total.
“The figures for tankers taken
alone are even more striking. At
that time Germany had 314,000
tons gross of export orders under
construction, not very much less
than the British figure of 348,000
'tons. Whereas British total
tanker-building was less than a
third for export, Germany’s ex-
port percentage was over 90.
“For Britain the German ship-
yards seem likely to be even in-
creasingly important as a com-
petitor.”
U.S. View
In view of such urgent and
energetic development, particu-
larly when contrasted against
French vacillation, it is not
illogical that there should be a
gradual shift of attention from
France’s importance in the Euro-
pean scene to that of Germany.
Thus, one New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent notes
that “French delays on E.D.C.
ratification may very shortly
demonstrate that the French
have missed the boat in Europe
as well as in Indo-China. Cer-
tainly the best of German leader-
ship—outside the Government,
that is—is beginning to sail its
own way,” while another lists as
possible alternatives to E.D.C.:
To admit West Germany into
the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation ; a bilateral mutual-
defence treaty between the
United States and Germany or a
tripartite treaty linking the
United States, Britain and Ger-
many ; to build the present Ger-
man police force into something
resembling an army.
Each of those proposals, of
course, would be subjected to
French objections ; but it is cer-
tainly arguable what weight such
objections would carry if
France’s reluctance to join
E.D.C. brings that concept of
European defence tumbling
down in ruins.
Anglo-German Accord
Meanwhile, indicative of a
drift of opinion in Britain,'Lon-
don “Economist” notes that
“German thinking about foreign
policy is showing all its old vigor
and restlessness. If it is com-
pelled to abandon the E.D.C.
conception, there are, broadly
speaking, three other courses it
could pursue:
“It could go over to the Com-
munists ; or it could try to play
N.Y. "Herald Tribune"
FORGETTING THE WAY OUT
the East off against the West
(which would probably come to
the same thing as the first
course) or it could find another
form of friendship and alliance
with the West. It ought to go
without saying that the last is,
from the British point of view,
infinitely the best.
“What is perhaps not quite so
obvious is that, if there is to be
another sort of Western associa-
tion for the Germans, alternative
or supplementary to the legalistic
ties of a ‘community’ with
France and the Low Countries,
then it is almost inevitably one
that requires a response, and a
warm response, from Britain.
“Any movement to seek out
the bases of a lasting friendship
between Britain and a free
democratic Germany is, in prin-
ciple, to be welcomed. But it is
not to be welcomed entirely
without qualifications.”
After listing some of the quali-
fications regarding trade and the
export of capital, the “Econo-
mist” continues;
“It has to be made clear that
the Anglo-American relationship
is fundamental; there can be no
question of Britain lining-up with
Germany to form a third-force
between an isolationist United
States and a threatening Soviet
Union.
“Even if the United States
should turn to a peripheral
strategy —which is still doubtful
—the first principle of British
policy will be to work with the
Americans, if possible, in all
matters. If there is to be an
Anglo-German effort to defend
Europe, to raise living standards
around the frontiers of the
Soviet Union, and to expand
markets —which is what many
Germans are proposing—that
must be done in company with
the United States.
“Likewise, there is no question
of substituting an Anglo-German
entente for the entente cordiale.
Too many names on too many
memorials stand in the way. In
this cabined corner of the world
that is Western Europe the days
of bilateral manoeuvrings are
over ; if there is to be a cordial
and effective Anglo-German
partnership it must be within the
limits of an Atlantic community
that embraces Europe and North
America.
“Previous attempts in the last
60 years to lay fresh foundations
for Anglo-German understand-
ing have failed because they
started from false assumptions.
It is important that Germans
should not for the third or the
fourth time seek Britain’s friend-
ship for reasons that run counter
to Britain’s interests and obliga-
tions.
“If the attempt is to be for-
mally made —and it has not
come to that yet —the British
response should be cordial, quick
and, above all, frank. As a be-
ginning, all possible ways of
collaboration in the economic
field should be worked out,
“Fate —aided by human arro-
gance and stupidity—has too
often got in the way of that close
friendship between the British
and German peoples which our
Victorian grandfathers thought
so natural. An opportunity to
repair one of the basic mistakes
of the last half-century may be
at hand, and it would be as
tragic for it to be let slip by in-
difference on the one side as by
insensitiveness on the other.”
U.S. Trade
American protectionists who
successfully opposed a three-year
extension of the U.S. Reciprocal
Tracle Agreements Act proposed
instead a one-year extension on
the condition that the Adminis-
tration committed itself to no
new trade-agreements during the
next 12 months—thus, in the
editorial opinion of “New York
Times,” “reducing the proposed
limited extension to a hollow
gesture”:
“It is fear of a new reciprocal
trade treaty—specifically, with
Japan—that has prompted the
protectionists to demand a halt
on new agreements as the price
for a one-year extension of the
law. These protectionists seem
oblivious of the disastrous inter-
national effect of their intran-
sigence.
“They evidently do not care
whether the trade of America’s
allies and associates of the free
world is driven directly into the
outstretched arms of the Iron
Curtain countries so long as
their own theories of ‘protection’
are sustained.
“How in the name of common-
sense can this nation [America]
insist that other countries to
whom trade is essential —and
Japan is only one of them—have
no commercial intercourse with
Russia and her satellites if at the
same time we shut the door to
freer trade with ourselves?”
Soviet's Military
Strength
In a survey of developments
behind the Iron Curtain, this
assessment of the Soviet’s
increasing military power was
given by Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery, Deputy Supreme Allied
Commander in Europe:
“From 1947 to the present time
the numerical strength (175
divisions) of Soviet ground-forces
has remained fairly constant.
Nonetheless, significant changes
have been made in favor of
increased mechanisation with
sturdy and efficient modern
equipment. Sixty-five divisions
of the present establishment are
tank- and mechanised-divisions.
Moreover, the rifle-divisions have
been provided with motorised
equipment; they also now have
organic tanks and additional
artillery. Thus, the mobility and
firepower of all Soviet divisions
have been increased through the
introduction of improved
weapons and equipment.
“The U.S.S.R., Eastern
Germany and the East European
satellites today have over six-
million men under arms.
Approximately 4.5-million of
these are in the ground-forces. A
high state of preparedness is
maintained by a rigorous
training-programme.
“The number of satellite
divisions has almost doubled
since 1947, bringing their total
to about 80 divisions.
“The U.S.S.R. has a ready-
made spearhead for a rapid
advance into Western Europe.
This spearhead is composed of
22 Soviet divisions in Eastern
Germany, the bulk of these
armored-divisions with nearly a
complete complement of tanks
and self-propelled guns. Behind
this spearhead there are an addi-
tional 60 Soviet divisions located
in the Eastern European satellite
countries and Western U.S.S.R.
(This does not take into account
satellite divisions.)
“Their mobilisation system is
exercised periodically to ensure
its effectiveness, and by M-30
[3O days after mobilisation day]
the Soviet and satellite ground-
forces could number 400
divisions.
“The numerical strength of the
Soviet Air Force in recent years
has been constant, having been
stabilised at about 20,000
aircraft, but the rapid increase
in the Soviet air-potential is illus-
trated by the rate of change-
over to jet-aircraft. In 1951
about 20 per cent, of their fighters
were jet-types. By early 1954
almost all of their'fighters were
jet-types.
“A similar development has
occurred with respect to their
light-bombers. In early 1951, jet
light-bombers had not been intro-
duced into operational units. By
1954, well over two-thirds of
their light-bomber forces were
jets.
“In the medium-bomber


Problem of
infertility
Such great strides have been
made in the study of infertility
that nearly a third of the
couples now unable to have
children could achieve parent-
hood with treatment.
Read in July Reader’s Digest
what doctors have learned
about causes of infertility—and
how modern science is over-
coming them.
Also many other stimulating
articles including “Are you a
Skid-Talker?” “Teach your wife
to be a widow,” “Eiffel and his
tower” and a 22-page book
condensation “Of Whales and
Men.” July Reader’s Digest on
sale now 1/6 at all newsagents
and bookstalls. Unparalleled
reading value for all the family.
Get your copy today.
IXL
This World Famous Brand i«
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
category, the Soviets have
doubled, since 1951, the number
of TU-14s (similar to the U.S.
B-29) in operational units.
“Still newer types of jet-
fighters have recently appeared.
Newer types of medium- and
heavy-bombers, including jet-
models, also have been observed.
“The development of a com-
prehensive aviation-training pro-
gramme has been one of the most
significant contributions in the
Soviet post-war programme to
improve the capability of Soviet
air-power.
“The programme for airfield-
construction is still in progress,
with attention recently being
directed to fields with very long
runways. In the past three years
the Soviets have about tripled the
number of major airfields in
Eastern Europe which will
accommodate jet-fighters.
“In the past the combat value
of the satellite air-forces has not
been significant. In 1951 their
aircraft were obsolete. By 1954
the numerical strength of the
satellite air-forces had been
doubled, nearly half being jet-
fighters. Their facilities were
improved and training had
reached a fairly satisfactory
standard.
“The growing complex of air-
fields throughout Eastern Europe,
the aircraft-control and warning
systems and anti-aircraft-artillery
dispositions of the Soviet bloc
are rapidly becoming capable of
providing an effective air-defence
belt along the western perimeter
of the U.S.S.R.
“Since the end of World War
11, the Soviet armed forces have
improved their potential for the
use of airborne troops and
weapons.
“The principal naval threat is
the Soviet submarine capability.
The Soviet Navy has over 300
submarines in service, of which
about half are large or medium
ocean-going types. The current
large-scale naval - construction
programme lays emphasis on the
continued production of large
ocean-going submarines.
“Soviet submarine stockpiles,
considered together with a con-
siderable air and naval minelay-
ing capability, constitute a grow-
ing threat, particularly against
the lines-of-communication of
Allied Command Europe.
“Full credit must be given the
Soviet bloc for having developed
a strong capability in the special
fields of atomic, chemical and
biological warfare, as well as in
the field of guided-missiles,
“The Soviet economy has
maintained a level of military
production sufficient to provide
equipment and supplies for the
Soviet and satellite forces and
still pursue a programme of
stockpiles.
“To illustrate the magnitude
of their total equipment-
stockpile, the Soviets have more
than enough tanks, mortars and
anti-tank guns for some 300-odd
Soviet divisions. Their stock-
pile of field artillery and anti-
aircraft artillery is several times
that required to supply those
divisions. Annual production of
these items is continuing at a
sizeable rate.”
Peace Through
Strength
Speaking in London, General
Gruenther, Supreme Allied Com-
mander in Europe, asserted that
if war breaks out the Allies must
and will use every vveapon they
New Orleans (U.S.A.) “Times-Picayune”
NOT MUCH DIFFERENCE
“Comrade, Can’t You Match What We Did Here?”
have, including atom-bombs in
support of ground troops and
on enemy targets.
Commenting on the General’s
speech, London “Spectator”
observed that it was “straight-
forward enough, and those well-
meaning people who allow their
horror at the prospect of a
general war of mutual destruc-
tion to drive all other considera-
tions from their mind should
think carefully”:
“Since the beginning of the
cold war it has been America’s
atomic strength, and virtually
that alone, which has held off an
open assault by Russia. The
American monopoly in atomic
weapons has gone, but America
retains superiority; and,
although the forces under
General Gruenther’s command
are by no means adequate as yet
to hold up by themselves a
Russian advance, he is confident
that if war broke out in 1954
Russia would lose it.
“ ‘We have,’ said General
Gruenther, ‘one asset now which
is of tremendous value. We
have a long-range aircraft to
which the Soviets now have no
answer. I refer to the plane B-47,
which can fly so fast and so high
that there is no defence against
it in this year of 1954.’
“Those like the Socialist coun-
cillors of Coventry,” added the
“Spectator,” “who allow them-
selves the luxury of loose
talk about ‘banning the bomb,’
and the many others who do not
fall into this particular error but
are yet deeply disturbed, should
reflect quietly on the nature of
the shield which is held between
them and their enemies.
“They should ask themselves
whether the remote possibility
of an atomic war, in which
neither side would be the winner,
but in which Russia would lose
more heavily than the West, is
not preferable to the probability
of a ‘conventional’ war from
which Russia would almost
certainly emerge victorious.
“It is understandable that
practising Christians should find
the dilemma a painful one, but
to them the Archbishop of
London gave good advice when,
from the pulpit of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, he assured them that
the Christian faith lent no
countenance to that pacifism
which ‘would suffer the blotting-
out of civilisation or the enslave-
ment of whole countries.’
“Indeed he spoke no less
bluntly than General Gruenther
when he described the existence
of ‘unconventional’ weapons as
an enormous deterrent against
armed aggression, and asserted
plainly that the horror of them
was a mighty force on the side
of peace.”
South-east Asia
A year ago America budgeted
for less than 500 million dollars
towards helping the French and
Vietnamese in Indo-China; the
turn of events since then has
jumped the estimate to 1100
million dollars if the war con-
tinues. Yet, as the following
comment indicates. Uncle Sam’s
material interests in that area
are comparatively small when
considered against what the
Communists hope to get out of it.
“U.S. News and World
Report”: “If the nations of
South-East Asia fall to the Com-
munists, the loss to the United
States will be military and poli-
tical, not so much economic.
The fabled riches of the Indies
no longer bulk large in American
trade.
“Take Indo-China, Burma,
Thailand and Malaya together:
the reliance of America on that
part of the world is relatively
small. From those four nations
in 1953 came about 300 million
dollars in goods, largely rubber
and tin. To those nations from
this country went 130 million
dollars’ worth of goods, largely
machinery and cotton-goods.
“Time was—before World
War II—when the United States
was heavily dependent upon the
Indies for vital supplies of rubber
and tin. Today, synthetics can
displace natural rubber in most
cases, and substitutes are avail-
able for tin in most of its
important uses. U.S. stockpiles
of both are immense—sufficient
to meet estimated demands in
five or six years of war.”
“Milwaukee Journal”
{U.S.A.): “Indo-China, Burma
and Siam are to Asia what the
Plains States—the corn- and
wheat-producing sections—are to
the United States. They are the
basic source of food. Each not
only feeds its own people but
produces rice for export. Japan,
India, the Philippines, Indonesia
and other countries depend upon
the ‘rice-bowl’ of South-East
Asia for their very existence.
“It is not only the free nations
of Asia that need rice. Com-
munist China needs it, too. And
certainly new sources of food are
not the least of its interests in
Indo-China and, eventually,
Burma and Siam, which would
seem to become sitting ducks if
Indo-China falls.
“Seizure of the South-East
Asian rice-bowl would be a
double victory for the Com-
munists. It would give them
more food. It would deprive the
free nations of Asia of food and
so make them easier prey.
“Rice is the key word in South-
East Asia. It is the prize in the
Indo-China war. It, more than
any other single thing, is the
reason South-East Asia must be
kept free, if possible.”
Various Voices
Gilbert Longden, M.B.E. {Con-
servative M.P. for Hertfordshire
South-West), on increased pay
for British M.P.s: “Each of us
was elected in 1951 knowing our
terms of service; and conditions
have not worsened so much since
as to make their improvement
urgent. Quite the reverse, but if
they had, ought we to look after
ourselves first?”
President Eisenhower: “Surely
even the men in the Kremlin
must realise that before all man-
kind now lies a grand prospect
of a far better life for everyone.
Its achievement requires only
that the scientists of every nation
concentrate on the means to a
plentiful life rather than on the
tools of sudden death.”
Charles Wilson {U.S. Secretary
of Defence): “We cannot knock
out false ideas with bullets. We
must counter and destroy them
with the truth, with superior
ideas and sound philosophy.”
Thomas E. Murray {one of the
five members of the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission): “If the
present meaning of the word
‘war’ were universally realised
there would rise in the world a
reasoned horror of war and a
rational opposition to all policies
that might lead to all-out atomic
war.”
E. H. C. Leather {British Con-
servative M.P.): “It is all very
nice for our Socialist friends to
promise to increase all kinds of
social benefits, and indeed they
have already promised that if
they are elected at the next elec-
tion they will increase social-
service expenditure by something
like £BOO million. They have
not, of course, told us where the
money is to come from. There is
only one place it can come from,
and that is the pocket of the
ordinary working-man, and
£BOO million would work out at
about another ss. per week per
wage-earner in taxes.”
Clement Attlee: “The hypo-
crisy of the Communists makes
me sick when they say ‘no re-
armament of Germans.’ Why
don’t they mention Hungarians
or Rumanians or Bulgarians?
But it is all right to rearm ex-
enemies so long as they are under
the control of the Communists.”
Lord De L’lsle and Dudley,
V.C. (. Britain’s Secretary of State
for Air): “When we have time
to pause and reflect we must be
astonished at the pace at which
the world has shrunk. Last
autumn an R.A.F, Canberra flew
to New Zealand in 23 hours, 52
minutes —half-way round the
world. In 1939 it was still some-
thing of a feat to fly the Atlantic,
And thus European, Middle
Eastern and Far Eastern
problems have merged into one
bleak, stark unity—the world
problem—the problem of accom-
modation between groups of
nations, covering almost the
whole globe.”
General de Gaulle: “The real
remedy in France is un grandeur
Frangais.”
U.S. Secretary for State, John
Foster Dulles: “We do not
accept the view that whenever
there is trouble anywhere the
U.S. must quickly fix it.”
Anthony Eden: “The most
encouraging feature of the
problem of Indo-China has been
the intimate co-operation and
consultation with the other
Governments of the Common-
wealth, Australia, New Zealand
and Canada.”


with which at least some naval men, pre-
sent Writer included, will agree.
He surfaces for public inspection the
seamier side of the Senior Service —reve-
lations which, possibly rightly, a serving
officer or man is by regulation forbidden
to make. He is somewhat too embracing
in his condemnation of the method of
promotion— to Mars one must toady to
captain (and captain’s lady) to get on.
He declares that an officer who falls foul
of his captain has his shortcomings
revealed to the captain of his next ship.
In this regard—conceding that it does
sometimes happen—one could expect that
captains like Mountbatten, Cunningham,
Fraser and Vian would be somewhat
inclined to make their own judgment of
the newly-joined officer. In fairness to
him, it should be said that Mars asserts
he is quoting actual cases.
Deciding that, after long and continu-
ously hazardous war service, he is entitled
to some time with his sick wife and
children, and —after carting them round
the world, from England to New Zealand,
to Westraiia, to Hong Kong, and being
monetarily embarrassed thereby—Mars
sends in his resignation. It is rejected.
After further hard times, he comes to the
decision to ignore his next appointment.
For three weeks nothing is done. When
the Admiralty does act, it has him incar-
cerated in a lunatic asylum. Luckily for
the submerged submariner, his wife was
still outside—she contacted the Press. The
resultant furore reached to Australia and
beyond. Mars was released, and, some
lime later, was told that he would be
court-martialled.
Found guilty, he appealed, without suc-
cess. Dismissed the Service, almost
penniless, with procurements of the week-
end meat dubious. Mars sat down and
wrote his very fine book, Unbroken. One
is happy to see that it is now in its ninth
edition, and that the author is, presum-
ably, free of the dole-line he wds earlier
forced to join.
This second book —written, it must be
stressed, by a responsible ship-com-
mander—is certain to cause bitter
recrimination among officers at pre-
sent serving; it will also engender, one
suspects, considerable sympathy.
However that may be, as a book, Court
Martial rests solidly on the stanchions
of concise writing, restrained feeling and
sustained interest.
MACNELL.
Parachutist's Adventures
There is as much violence in Serge
Vaculik’s Air Commando (Jarrolds) as
there normally is in a crime book. For
instance, the first two sentences;
A vague feeling of life returned to me.
Someone had kicked me in the ribs.
But what makes the difference is the
knowledge that the kickings, bashings
and sudden death in Air Commando are
not the money-spinning products of
some industrious sedentary man who,
when he isn’t writing best-sellers, is pro-
bably quite inoffensive (and it is sur-
prising how a consciousness of that back-
ground somehow gelds the horror; a
sort of willing suspension of belief,
against which one can take one’s sadism
with a Clear conscience, like a cup of
tea), but are the experiences of a flesh-
and-blood man.
This one being a Czech who went to
France with his parents at the age of
five and, as is not unusual in such cases,
conceived a passionate, self-conscious
love for the country of his adoption—
as a poor student in Paris; as a soldier
in the defeated French Army; and, later,
as a part of the victorious British Army
that returned to French soil. Here there
is the same sweep in a complete circle for
a Frenchman who cast his lot with De
Gaulle and the British as is described in
Pierre Clostermann’s The Big Show.
And, as in that superb and realistic story
of the war in the air over Britain and
Europe, victory brings its own bitterness.
But that is several prisons away. First
Vaculik is captured by the Germans at
Dunkirk (a German foot administered
that boot in the ribs), escapes, and is
in and out of prisons all the way through
Spain and into Portugal, where he is im-
prisoned more as a gesture than for any
serious neutral reason, on his battered,
desperate and obstinate journey to Eng-
land. Where, of course, they pop him
into prison.
For a time Vaculik entirely failed to
see the humor of his situation. He
cursed the turnip-headed], treacherous
English, and almost hoped they would
lose the war. But when he was released
and presented himself at the Free French
headquarters the French officer who
interviewed him shrugged away his com-
plaints. What did he expect, with enemy-
agents in every batch of refugees?
Besides, if he was mad enough to carry
letters of introduction from some Aus-
trian count he had met in some prison
or other ... In retrospect, Vaculik
could see something of the justice of this.
When, in due course, he was attached
tc a British parachute regiment, trained
and lived side-by-side with Englishmen,
and, later went into action with them, he
became something of the same sort of
limited Anglophile as Clostermann became
under similar conditions. Limited, that
is, because in both cases the affection
and loyalty is kept within a tight circle
of real people, living and dead, with no
speculation on what lay outside ; and,
perhaps, not much curiosity. Limited,
too, because this feeling implied no
diminution of their feeling for France.
But, at the same time, there is a gratitude
to England in the larger sense, because
she was unbeaten, and gave France a
chance to find her soul in the deeds of
those of her sons who continued fighting.
The ideas are Clostermann’s, and Cios-
termann’s is the more intense, the more
poetic expression of the emotion. As,
oddly enough. The Big Show is the more
realistic book. But • the same thought is
in both books, and is the more pleasant
when it is remembered that it was ex-
pressed in French, for French readers.
English translations came later.
In one respect Vaculik goes further
than Clostermann, since he wooed, and
won, an English lady of high degree ;
young, fair, and titled. The courtship is
sufficiently odd, sandwiched, so to speak,
between jumping off training-towers;
drinking with his English comrades;
bamboozling the police and “borrowing”
transport as a sort of hardy, unofficial
part of a parachutist’s training; bam-
boozling, with qualms that are an odd
contrast to the light-heartedness of his
dealings with the civil authorities, his
commanding officer, in order to sue Lady
Frances, by simply ringing him, imper-
sonating a French colonel, and request-
ing the loan of himself.
Vaculik and his friends are dropped
over France, and on one of these missions,
a sabotage task, they are captured and
interrogated by the Gestapo. Through-
out the book Vaculik is referred to as
“Jean Duponte,” and it appears that he
was provided with this name because the
British authorities thought a Czech name
would make the Germans suspicious, and
“harsher in their interrogation,” than
would a French name. As a further pro-
tection his paybook contained the infor-
mation that he was a French-Canadian.
The Germans did not suspect his Czech
origin, but were harsh enough in their
interrogation, Vaculik being seriously
tortured. Then they decided to shoot the
small group of British parachutists, mak-
ing them change into civilian clothes, and
taking them into a wood for the purpose.
Vaculik escaped, just before the volley,
raft, was chased, escaped, and finally,
after some nerve-shaking adventures,
joined a French Resistance group.
Back in England he presented himself
at the home of his wife’s parents, with
a hopeful willingness to confess the little
deception of a secret marriage, get things
straight. His wife said no, with some
emphasis. He was going back to the
war, tomorrow, or the day after, or next
week. She had to face the family dis-
approval. The reasons behind this atti-
tude became more plain when his
mother-in-law, unaware of the relation-
ship, had a word with him. She said,
in effect, that hospitality to gallant allies
was all very well, a certain war-time
weekend hobnobbing with social unequals
was understandable, but she drew the
line at strange young Frenchmen cast-
ing sheeps’-eyes at her daughter.
All of which was natural and human
enough, a scene, doubtless, being played
with variations all over the world at
that time. Brigades and divisions of
matrons firmly telling rash young men
that their daughters were destined for
better things, to be the mates of doctors,
dentists, bank-clerks, tradesmen —as the
case might be. But such scenes, in them-
selves comic, are usually serious to the
actors. Vaculik was confused by a
social division of which he had been
aware, more as a picturesque piece of
geography than as a real danger, now
yawning at his feet; choked by his
secret; and oppressed by the common,
trivial worries of lovers in uniform —•
leave-passes, trains, time —which, never-
theless, are large enough in their context.
Of the workings of the military
machine as they affected the lower ranks,
and, particularly, of the complex system
of levers which govern communication
from top to bottom. Lady Frances, the
General’s daughter, had a charming
patrician ignorance. Details like leave
could be arranged by ringing-up a
general. In the nick of time Private
Vaculik prevented this enormity.
The result of all this is a curiously
uneven book. Vaculik’s difficulties as a
narrator are obvious. The story is really
split into three parts. His first escape,
and trek through the south of France,
Spain, and into Portugal: a story in
itself, complete with border-crossing,
shots, filthy Spanish prisons, brutality,
and a beautiful Spanish woman who
helps him, appearing, and fading into the
anonymity of a railway-station behind
him, with the touch of charm and mystery
proper to such encounters.
There is another story in the training
of a parachutist, the reaction of a
foreigner to Englishmen in arms, then-
reaction to him, and the strong com-
radeship forged, and tested in action.
The pictures of individual parachutists,
private soldiers, are very good. It is
also obvious that no foreigner, indeed no
Englishman, could have penetrated ex-
ternals of good-humor, casualness, and
certain social attitudes and habits which
include a measure of uncouthness, to the
heroic essence of these men without
having lived with them and seen some
of them die. There, as far as it goes, is
another story.
There is another story, or novel, in the
adventures in France, the interrogation,
and the extraordinary realism of the
execution-scene; or, perhaps, with links
in the fears of launching oneself into
dark space, not once, or -twice, as a
necessity, but hundreds of times, the third
story could be married to the second.
Such material could make a fine novel.
But it is not a novel. There are so
many peaks of action, a sort csf crazy
graph, a hedge of spears, that the
reader’s reaction is blunted.
If a documented and factual account
of his experiences is the narrator’s inten-
tion, he is doubtless obliged to leap this
hedge of spears, as, in the wood, he was
obliged to leap a real and formidable
hedge to escape death. Photographs,
and certain passages on the execution of
parachutists, and about the War Crimes
trial at which he and another survivor
appeared as witnesses, suggest that
Vaculik did feel the need to document
his experiences. So it seems unfair to
criticise him for not writing a novel
instead.
But there is unevenness of another sort,
arising from the courtship and marriage,
Again, it is easy to appreciate Vaculik’s
difficulties. The lady is presumably his
wife the proud patricians are his parents-
in-law In these circumstances, inhibitions
are understandable. But he could have
left them out. As it is, there is an odd
difference in texture, in taste and color.
A sort of French polish, with the girl
and her parents seen indistinctly, peering
through a surface which is too glossy.
They resemble, not so much flesh-and-
blood people, as a noble English family
in a French novel.
In a type of French novel. For those
great realists, the French, the people of
Flaubert, Maupassant, Balzac, in real
life imbibe vast quantites of syrupy
literature. Even Balzac, when he raised
his eyes above a certain social level,
became" dizzy. Maupassant, it must be
admitted, wrote quantities of magazinish
stories, frothy stuff compared with the
architectural solidity of his “Bouie de
Suif.” There is probably something in
Somerset Maugham’s cruel comment, that
a Frenchman’s whole duty, as Maupas-
sant saw it, was to seduce every woman
he met, not from joy in the deed, but
because he considered it a gentlemanly
accomplishment, like shooting pheasants.
But to balance this there is the equally
cruel comment on Somerset Maugham
by an Australian critic: that Maugham,
when he wrote that, was jealous.
‘lf Maupassant and Balzac can be
criticised for conventional attitudes that
seem, in their finer shadings, recognisably
Gallic, and if these characteristics appear
time after time in late French novels,
either (as in Montparnasse ) in reverse, in
a scorn of the bourgeoisie —which, from
this distance, appears extravagant —or in
a preoccupation with status and property,
it is not surprising that these character-
istics tend to run wild in inferior fiction:
which, whatever the critics may think of
it, is (widely read. There is a
certain realism in this attitude, since,
in its positive form, it is basic-
ally an acceptance of the world
as it is. But it is not the realism of
Flaubert, which is a patient synthesis of
detail, horror and tragedy assembled with
a straight face, and without concessions
or diversions. It is wrong, and slightly
ridiculous, to stress realism in French
literature, past or contemporary.
Elegance, yes, and the light touch. But
it is worth consideration that France’s
contribution to poetic drama was the
wit and sting of the rhymed couplet,
England’s the strength and flexibility of
blank verse.
Perhaps in reaction to the perfumed
nonsense which is a considerable part of
France’s literary output, the better nove-
lists tend to be darkly-inteilectual: and
these are the ones the English-speaking
world knows, by translation or reputa-
tion. Intellectual Frenchmen would
have one believe that such writers are
representative of French thought, but this
is not quite true. The intellectual French,
perhaps, have cultivated a distaste for
literary sugar to a point where they
prefer astringency, and what commonly
goes with it in modern writing, obscurity.
At least, the values vary, here and in
France, in the assessment of contempor-
ary French writers. Chevallier, for in-
stance, who is esteemed here, is dismissed
as a “shopgirls’ writer” by many educated
Frenchmen. Although, of course,
midinette has somewhat different con-
notations.
So, for that matter, have most words,
translated from one language into
another. This reviewer is not familiar
enough with the language to be altogether
proof against the danger of giving French
words a value they lack to a Frenchman.
But this is a common error, and one
would need to be bilingual in the true
sense to be altogether safe from it. But,
this danger admitted, jeune fille has a
more attractive sound than young woman,
or girl, or lady; pauvre jeune fille, in a
Certain context, is more warming than
unfortunate young woman; and me
pauvre jeune fille who is also rich, beau-
tiful, and noble, in a concise string of
adjectives, can melt a million hearts.
And does, in a million paper-back novels.
In this book the General, roaring
amiably before a fire, gaitered, his shot-
gun —or his shooting-stick?—somewhere
in the background, is likewise a stock
figure ; and so is his wife. For all that,
there is a vague fidelity in the characters
—the girl appears as a simple, pleasant
person —but the gloss obscures vision.
This recurrent failure of realism is a
considerable defect in the book, the more
marked because it cuts across pictures of
some power and intensity. The execution-
scene, for instance, and the detail sur-
rounding it —the long drive in a truck;
a cigarette; halts on the road ; the wood
—has a horror and starkness which is
really the synthesis of many impressions,
including Vaculik’s temporary failure of
nerve after the ordeal. This, too, has its
psychological horror, and is in striking
contrast to his reaction to death in battle ;
at the same time it is a measure of the
realism of much of the book, and con-
tributes to it. It is a pity about the sugar.
EROSION
The beach I knew, is a splash of the sea,
Whiskered still with brambles, wanting
The blade of the breaker to shave it clean;
Like clean sand, color of flesh, and free
Of all this turbulent foam. Taunting
Me is this process of shaving. Mean
Mirror that fragments shows: the rock,
the nose;
The reef, the teeth; mouth hard, as the
blow-hole blows.
Let it go under; let the land sink. Let
The land be shaven again. I will stick
Out no hand to arrest tide and its sweep.
Lather it briskly, thoroughly wet;
Let it be shaven by the razor-wave’s lick.
Whiskers and brambles succumb in its
soap.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
ONLY GIRL
Only girl,
I love winter
and its grey way
that leads
kisses deeper
than words can say.
And autumn, girl,
and colder, colder
when night and night
is close
as remember
as you as the moonlight.
And spring, spring,
with its tomorrows
of singing trees
that leaf
all sorrows
towards memory and memories.
And, only heart,
my need is summer.
I live and I long
for those
days longer
than memory or song.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Established itius in Reign of,
Oeofge 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
IfJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MARJORIE CARPENTER formerly
of Leuxa—TAKE NOTICE that ANN
LILY GRIFFIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce Number 4543 of 1953 from
SAMUEL GREGORY GRIFFIN on the
grounds of adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may apply in the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 21st October 1954 and
obtain a copv of the petition without
charge from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Deputy Registrar.
Public Notice
I, JOYCE ISOBEL BLACK, of UNITED
STATES citizenship, bom at Rockdale,
New South Wales, Australia, resident ih
years in Australia, now residing at 61
Alexandra Street, Drummoyno, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Missing Friend
THE whereabouts of GEORGE WALKER,
son of MRS. S. E. WALKER, “Tamworth
Hotel,” Tamworth, N.S.W. Late R.A.A.F.,
Second World War. Reply to Box No.
252, “Bulletin,” Sydney.
m\
I
i
X
x
X
V\'' x
\
&
S ■'• ■■
'is
3 Ea
A DRAMA WITH A CHALLENGE!"
//
An outstanding presentation which dramatises the everyday
truths, the doubts, the fears of every thinking man and
It is a challenge to all who hear its story.
woman.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - 6IX - 7HO
2NX, 2NM, 2PK, 2LF, 2MW, 2MG, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY.
8 30 p.m. Tuesdays; 2WL, 9.00 p.m. Tuesdays; 2CA, 9.00 p.m. Fridays;
2LT, 7HO, 7LA, 8.30 p.m. Fridays.
She MACQUARIE
C ft ST I NO S E R V J C E
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Whereabouts of Robert Newson
(35), former English Army officer,
arrived Australia, September, 1953,
was in Brewarrina (N.S.W.), believed
to be in Innisfail (Q.) district. Family
urgently inquiring.—5843.
Words of poem “Father Prate’s
Sermon.” —5844.
Words of poem “Waiting a While”
and “The Woolshed Ball” by “Jim
Grahame” (J, W. Gordon) —5845.
Young American reader (18) would
like to correspond with Bulletin
readers. (Reply direct to Miss Agnes
O’Connor, 81 Middle-avenue, Sara-
toga Springs, New York State,
U.S.A.).
To buy copy of book of poems by
“Jim Grahame” (J. W. Gordon). —
5846.
Copies of magazines and newspapers
containing the history of the old
Criterion Theatre, Pitt- and Park-
streets, Sydney. —5847.
Copies of books containing collec-
tions of humorous black-and-white
drawings by Australian artists since
World War II. (Reply direct to Mrs.
Pyke Johnson, Jr., Doubleday and
Co. Inc., Publishers, 575 Madison-
avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.)
Copy of Australian short story in
which the central character is a Torres
Island smaH boy who invents a dance
of his own while going along a river-
bank on his way to school. —5848.
To buy, copy of Kenya's Warning
by Dr. Christopher Wilson. —5849.
To get in touch with R. Cardwell,
one time with Eastern Extension Cable
Co., Darwin, and companion of
buffalo-shooters Paddy Cahill and
Billy Johnson. (Reply direct to L. M.
Morton, c/o Mrs. Nightingale,
“Sasumua Estate,” South Kinangop,
Kenya, East Africa).
To gel in touch with the executors
of the estate of the late Ambrose
Pratt, of Melbourne, author of The
Lore o'f the Lyrebird. —5850.
Schoolgirl (Vic.) wants copies of
magazines containing biography of
A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson.—5851.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Reciter.
—5853.
Gent, middle-aged, Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, quiet home,
own room, northern side of Harbor.
5852.
To buy copy of the complete poems
of Jack Sorenson, Out of the Night
by Jan Valtin, and Bells and Hobbles
and Two Frontiers by E. J. Brady.
5854.
Whereabouts of relatives in Aus-
tralia, if any, of Thomas Jones, son
of Hannah Jones, of Bagillt, Flint-
shire, North Wales, last heard of in
London, May, 1885, as member of
crew of s.s. Ligurian. Nephew in-
quiring. (Reply direct to Alfred J ones,
3 Masefield-avenue, Swalwell, New-
castle-on-Tyne, England.)
Copies of publications containing
short stories by Bernard Cronin.
5856.
To buy copy of Defeat by Arthur
Mee, published during World War I.—
ssss
Information Sought
Some details concerning the stone-
fish ?
It belongs to a small group which
includes some of the most venomous
fishes known. A common species in
Australian waters inhabits coral reefs,
and has a remarkably shaped head
and body resembling a piece of eroded
stone. It is variously tinted and
marked, so as to appear like a frag-
ment of rock covered with marine
growths, and is so difficult to detect
when lying perfectly still in a coral
pool that it may be easily grasped
or trodden upon unawares. Its
wrinkled and warty skin hides needle-
like spines, a prick from which causes
intense agony and may be followed
by convulsions and death. The spines
are provided with venom glands, and
grooves on each side convey the poison
to their tips. Several species of stone-
fish are found in Australian tropical
waters. Notwithstanding the venom
glands, their flesh is said to be good
eating when the glands and spines are
removed.
# * * *
What kind of fish are hair-tails,
and where do they occur ?
They are long, ribbon-shaped and
of the genus Trichiurus, silvery in
color and with the body drawn out
into a long pointed tail. Several
closely allied species occur in temper-
ate and tropical waters of both hemi-
spheres; one occasionally appears in
plenty off the coast of N.S.W., appar-
ently coming from deep water, and
another swims in small schools among
the mangroves of northern Q’land.
The N.S.W. species is commonly
confused with the true ribbon-fish and
the frost-fish, but is quite distinct from
both.
* * * *
When did John Ruse, to whom
Governor Phillip issued the first land
grant in Australia, die, where was he
buried, and what is the epitaph on
his tombstone ?
He died on September 5, 1837,
and was buried in St. John’s church-
yard at Campbelltown (N.S.W.), where
his tombstone, bearing the following
epitaph, is still to be seen:
My Mother Reared Me Tenderley
With Me She Took Much Paines
And When I Arivid in This Ooelney
I Sewd the Forst Grain, and Now
With My Heavenly Father I Hope
For Ever to Remain.
* * * *
Some details of the career of Robert
Logan Jack, author and explorer?
He was born at Irvine, in Ayrshire,
September 15, 1845, and educated at
Edinburgh University. In 1877 he
came to Australia as Queensland
Government Geologist. In 1879-80
he explored, geologically, a great part
of the Cape York Peninsula. Over
the next 20 years Jack furthered
development of the mining industry
and extending of the system of
artesian wells. He wrote extensively
on both subjects, and, in conjunc-
tion with R. Etheridge, brought
out in 1892 a Geology and Paleon-
tology of Queensland and New
Guinea. In 1899 he resigned his
post and led an expedition to Korea,
but had to abandon it in 1901 upon
the outbreak of the Boxer War; this
produced another book, The Back-
blocks of China, published in 1904.
In that year also he returned to
Australia and settled down as a con-
sulting geologist. His last work,
Northmost Australia, an account of
exploration since 1600 in the region
north of the tropic of Capricorn, was
being published in London when the
author died at Sydney on November
5, 1921.
Brief Answers
Megan: The new Welsh flag (white
on top of the fly, green below, with
the Crown and a Red Lion in the
centre) was sanctioned by Queen
Elizabeth as a Coronation honor. It
does not supersede the older flag
(green and white, with the Red
Dragon superimposed). Either flag
may be f10wn.... Raymond J .C.:
Churchill did say in a speech on Jan.
27, 1942, that “There never has been
a moment when Britain or the Empire,
single-handed, could fight Italy and
Germany and wage the Battle of the
Atlantic, the Battle of Britain and
the Battle of the Middle East, and
simultaneously stand thoroughly pre-
pared in Burma, Malaya and generally
in the Far East against the impact of.a
vast military machine like Japan.” In
the same speech he indicated that he
belieyed that first precedence should
be given to the Russian and Libyan
fronts before those (such as Australia),
where the threat of war was still to
become actual fighting. There was
therefore a feeling in some quarters
in Australia that Britain was ignoring
our plight—for instance, when
Churchill announced that “U.S.
fighter and bomber squadrons will jmn
in Britain’s defence and the bombing
of Germany” it was asked why, when
her arms production was reported
so good, Britain had to be defended
by U.S. planes which would serve
the Allied cause better in the Pacific.
And certainly there was a tendency in
some quarters in Britain, while the
war in Europe was at its height,
to regard the Pacific as a secondary
theatre-of-war. Still, Australiaß de-
mand for a seat in the Imperial Wa
Cabinet and for the setting-up of an
Allied War Council, with Dominion
representation, was immediately
granted by Britain. And, in consider-
ing Britain’s effort in relation to tne
defence of Australia, it must be
remembered that at the beginning
1942 the British and U.S. Govern-
ments divided the spheres of resist-
ance ; Britain to concentrate o
Europe and the Atlantic, while (t
quote Churchill in his Tribute to
Mr. Curtin” speech on May 18, .+?■
the Americans “undertook with their
strong arm to ward off the menace ot
Japan and aid Australia to develop
her full strength” R.N.: The Aus-
tralian middleweight boxer Bruce
Farthing won the Australian amateur
middleweight championship m 19dz,
and turned professional within a year
or so. His progress in the profes-
sional ranks has been interrupted by
a recurring eye-injury. He won by
a two-round knockout a prelim, bout
to the world bantamweight title-fight
between Jimmy Carruthers and Pappy
Gault in Sydney last November.
Then he outpointed N.S.W. middle-
weight champion Cailo Marchini. He
was to have fought the N.Z. light-
heavyweight boxer Chub Keith in
N.Z. on March 20 this year, but had
to withdraw (Keith fought instead
Norm Harvey on that date, knocking
him out in the third round)....
J.K.: The Japanese were making
conciliatory and placatory speeches
throughout 1941, and disavowing any
hostile intent toward the Allies. As
an example, in April, 1941, the
spokesman for the Japanese Cabinet
Information Bureau, Mr. Ishii, said
that he was authorised by the Govern-
ment “absolutely and flatly” to deny
that Japan intended to send an army
or naval force against or to Singapore.
The Japanese were repeating such
sentiments almost up to Pearl Harbor.
I.H.; (1) The two Speakers m
the House of Representatives preced-
ing A. G. Cameron were W. M.
Nairn (Nov. 20, 1940, to June 21,
1943) and J. S. Rosevear (June 21,
1943, to Feb. 22, 1950). Mr.
Cameron has been in office since
Feb. 22, 1950. (2) Frank Crean,
Labor M.H.R. for Melbourne Ports
since 1951, was before that in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly. He
was elected M.L.A. for Albert Park
at the general elections in 1945, and
defeated at the general elections in
1947. He won Prahran at a by-
election (Jan. 22, 1949) and at the
general elections in 1950. He resigned
on Mar. 17, 1951, to stand for the
Federal Parliament, as mentioned
Narara; Henry Kendall was born at
Kirmington, near Milton (N.S.W.), on
April 18, 1841, and died at Redfern
on Aug. 1, 1882. He lived for a time
in the Gosford district, where he
wrote “Names upon a Stone” and
Narrara Creek.” Kendall always
spelt it Narrara (with three “r’s”):
There was a rock-pool in a glen
Beyond Narrara’s sands....
Usual spelling, used in all official
references, is Narara... .8.G.: The
flag of the Republic of Korea has in
its centre a circle of brilliant red and
blue on a white background, with
black bar-designs on the four corners.
Both the circle and the bars have
symbolic and philosophic meanings
(interpretations, as given by the
Korean Consul-General, have been
posted)... .F.R.: The Court of In-
quiry into the fire at Liverpool in
January, 1953, which destroyed the
Canadian Pacific finer Empress of
Canada found that its cause was most
probably a dropped cigarette-end The
report issued by the court said it was
difficult to explain why the fire re-
mained undetected long enough tor
the build-up of considerable heat and
gases inside the ship. The court
severely criticised the fire-preyentio
arrangements on the ship * ac T- „
a direct telephone-line to the tire-
brigade, etc., the lack of water, i
the fire-mains, etc.) R.M.: William
Morris Hughes was born on Septem-
ber 25, 1864, in Wales, and died on
October 28, 1952, in Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.A.: Its only claim to originality
is its incoherence S.M.C.: Slight
variation of a well-known O. Henry
story L.R.8.: A temperance paper
seems your one hope of unloading it.
T.G.D.: Be a good fellow and
take up fretwork or canary-breeding
as a hobby S.S.: A flapper maga-
zine might be interested in “Lions,
who was divinely pretty with large
violet eyes,” and her “Keith, who was
tall and bronzed and almost as shy as
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
a kitten”.... S.F.A.: “Wayward
Women” not allowed on the premises.
R.J.D.: We began to wonder
whether it was a story _ written in
Latin with English quotations or vice
versa. .. .P.N.: That philosophical
swagman has worn out a dozen
Bulletin doormats G.F.L. : Story
about inebriated gravedigger irrever-
ently interred in office morgue
M.R.C.: “You Can’t Win at Two-
up” has been handed over for
consideration to the Religious Editor.
A.J.G.: Tilly is on her way
home... .K.C.: Afraid our readers
wouldn’t be interested in “Some
Impressions of a Motor Drive to the
Blue Mountains”... .R.H.: Don’t
think Sydney could stand being
addressed as “O Queen of Austral
Paradise”... .W. 8.: You’ve an un-
happy knack of selecting the hoariest
of plots 8.5.: A parish magazine
seems the right place for it M.L.:
Bring the matter up at the next
meeting of the sewing-circle
C.T.L.: Your apologies to “The
Man from Snowy River” should be
profound... .E.D.H.: We’ve suffered
too many of those dandy newchums
who astound the station-hands with
their brilliant horsemanship
M.G.F.: “The Goat and Compass”
is not one of our haunts... .5.T.8.:
“Drunken Danny” was last seen
groping his way towards the w.p.b.
S.L.A.: Afraid we have to reject
it, even though you are “prepared to
take half-rates if it is not quite up
to standard” E.J.F.: Not fond of
mournful maidens who whisper to
“the murmuring waves” J.McD.:
The office sleuth, after spending four
days trying to track do vn the point
of that story, gave a wild shriek and
went out for a bo 1 tie of overproof
rum....J.J.: Your prospectors failed
to get on to pay-dirt A.M.E.: At
half that length it might stand a slim
chance J.0’8.: Some day we’ll
catch the fellow who tells his friends
to send us that sort of yarn... .P. 8.:
That " makes the second knockback the
travelling salesman got W.H. J.:
. “Accompanying stories were drawn
from life”; aye, and should be hung
and quartered... .H. 8.: Sozzled
hearse-driver went out on his head.
L.J.N.: Too much scissors and
paste A.P.D.: Dying drover and
faithful hound are old acquaintances.
C.C.: Leave it in a drawer for a
few years; the silverfish might improve
it H.M.: An undertakers’ trade-
journal should snap it up L.T.P.:
Your threat to continue sending them
in has been gloomily noted
M.G.W.: Suspected that a “breeze
would whisper amidst the tires
sooner or later... .M.R.: that
“drama of the great open spaces”
should be lost somewhere out there.
C.F.: You can hardly say that
the “ruthless elements” roll on in
“glee”... .C.H.R.: “I could forward
an affidavit that this is an original
work”; unnecessary, nobody else on
earth could have turned out anything
like it C.T.: A string of “plumes
doesn’t necessarily make an abo.
story L.L.: “One more rejection
and I’ll give up writing.” Done
A.W.P.: Could find neither solution
nor mystery in “The Solution of the
Mystery” J.D.D.; Takes an hour
to pass a given point M.V.: Too
tender and precious for this hard
world N.T.E.: No use imitating
C. J. Dennis V. 8.; No harm in
hoping; but no use either while you
stick to those hackneyed themes
W.C.H.: “I’d be pleased if you could
do something with this.” Bill, it’s
beyond repair H.H.8.: Always
glad to hear that the sun still rises.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ne
matter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
h
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
Xbe treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGESA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
"DISTBIBUTOBS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
BUYERS! SELLERS!
We invite you to visit, phone or
write to us, for anything in
REAL ESTATE.
PACIFIC ESTATES,
CONNOR PLACE. SURFER’S PARADISE.
Phone 824. A/hrs., Southport 915.
360 Queen Street, Brisbane. 89230.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach - |
m e n t illus-
trated is the j
world-
famous
“FARMERS’ |
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
h
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young - St, Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria; Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’iand:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania; Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
Sole Australian Agents :
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 C'astlereagh St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEARING
So you’re off to Riverina,' where the
sun is shining dear,
And the ewes and lambs are bleating,
calling shearers far and near;
Where the musterers are busy and the
grass is waving high,
And the July fogs are climbing up the
sunbeams to the sky;
Where the trefoil and the crowfoot in
the pens are growing rank,
And the mud is getting sun-cracked
on the falling river’s bank;
Where the cook is in possession and
the teams are carting wood,
And they’re patching up the oven—
which was never understood.
It hasn’t changed much. Or,
rather, it has changed a great
deal since W. A, Woods wrote
“I Don’t Go Shearing Now” (due
to see the light of day again in
A ustralian Bush Ballads), but the
bustle, the excitement, the
preparation and the grass in the
pens remain the same. They’re
shearing now, out west in N.S.W.,
and preparing for shearing in
other districts.
It is, of course, the first move
in collecting the wool-cheque,
and so has a sort of awful
significance. It’s also one of the
few opportunities the owner has
during the year of inspecting the
entire flock. It’s important that
this shouldn’t be lost sight of in
the general flurry. Likewise, the
business has become so complex
that an owner leans heavily on
agents, classers and other experts.
Small growers, particularly—
others aren’t likely to need the
reminder—would be well advised
to join the appropriate State
graziers’ organisation; such
bodies give advice on the inter-
pretation of awards, which are
becoming increasingly complex.
Even big overseas firms like the
Kaiser group need local experts
on such matters.
The first thing, of course, is to
see that shed, machinery, yards,
are in good order. A thorough
inspection of everything—from
that dicky gate to the loading-
platform. Then elbow-work and
disinfectant in the shed. But no
disinfectant will act through a
glaze of grease. The woolshed is
a convenient storehouse for all
sorts of things in the off-season:
dead-wool, super., skins; and
there is usually dead-wool lying
MERRYVILLE UNIFORM 4TH (Fishwick photo).
about the yards, a neat trap of
infection. Everyone knows these
things and, at some time or other,
everyone forgets them. There’s
so much to do .. .
The placb is cleaned, of course.
But never the way you intended.
A small hand-jetting plant is
useful: cover the overhead gear
with oily bags and make a
thorough job of it, turning the
jet on rafters, chutes, etc. Details
of stencils, bale-hooks, and so
on, shouldn’t be left to the last
moment. Neither should the
mustering-plan, and the order of
shearing should be discussed
with the classer, so as to avoid
unnecessary delay in cleaning-up
after each lot. Too many changes
of ages, type and sex waste time.
A few points worth keeping
in mind concerning shearing
itself. Second-cuts are expensive,
and the shearer who keeps mak-
ing them costs about double the
award-rate per 100, compared
with the man who doesn’t. The
fast man very seldom makes
second-cuts. Speed plays an
important part in the cutting-
ability of the handpiece. Always
check speeds on the down-tube,
when you can, and don’t rely
on headgear speed only.
Classing is a specialist’s job,
but most owners know something
about it. The bloke who says
“classing doesn’t pay” is dying-
out, but the other extreme —over-
fussy classing should be
guarded against. Classing is,
after all, only a preliminary
grading to more intensive sorting.
A few high-quality clips, classed
by the same man year after year,
are the exception, but, generally
speaking, too many lines or
classes are a nuisance to brokers,
valuers and buyers. Common-
sense is necessary.
Of the ultimate return, and,
more important, the long-range
prospects for wool, the next
man’s opinion is generally as
valid as one’s own. In an article
in the “Quarterly Review of
Agricultural Economics” R. B.
McMillan makes the point that
“a most significant development
in the textile field in recent years
is the loss by the wool-textile
industry, as such, of its separate
identity.” It is becoming part
of a general industry in textiles ;
the tendency is not confined to
the wool-textile manufacturers ;
rayon and cotton manufacturers,
and even manufacturers of the
newer fibres, have done the same
thing. Blending seems to have
come to stay.
Manufacturers in the U.K.
first went in for it in 1951, in
order to keep prices of their
products down. During 1951-52
the preference for wool was more
marked, with lower prices, but
the tendency was not reversed.
The principal fibre used in the
U.K. for blending is rayon, the
other man-made fibres being still
in limited supply, although nylon
and terelyne (dacron) are making
rapid progress. •
The U.S. has gone further in
the direction of a general-textile
industry. Older, all-wool firms
are losing ground, but the
general-textile firms are using
more wool.
In Western Germany, oddly
enough, the domestic demand is
for all-wool products, consumers
being prejudiced against syn-
thetics by war-time experience of
them. Man-made fibres are
mostly for export.
In Italy it is the other way
round. Because of sterling diffi-
culties, man-made fibre produc-
tion is encouraged, in order to
reduce raw-wool imports, and
absence of effective labelling
legislation makes it difficult for
the customer to know what he is
buying.
A factor in the development of
synthetics is the vast capital
expenditure required to set-up a
plant. The need to make sure of
markets, over a long term, to give
a reasonable return for this
expenditure has been a limiting
factor in the U.K., and is likely
to be a brake on expansion in the
U.S. All the same (with a host
of qualifications), increasing
availability of other fibres, and
reductions in their prices, seem
likely to force wool-prices to ease
somewhat over the next few
years. The rate of easing is
important.
In the meantime, as the
balladist remarks:
There’s the flying hurry-scurry up and
down the greasy floors
Of the pickers and*> the broomies;
there’s the banging of the doors,
And the rattle of the wool-press with
its “hard metallic din,”
And the hoof-taps on the battens when
the ewes and lambs rush in.
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too —— 7/6.
Send name and address with
posted note.
Pulpy Kidney
“Hux”: Pulpy • kidney is
one of the diseases that attack
fat sheep and lambs when lush
feed is abundant; more likely to
occur in wet seasons than in dry.
Sheep of all ages and both sexes
are affected. In some seasons
losses are heavier in lambs from
three to six weeks old ; in others,
fatalities are greater in forward
to fat lambs of three to four
months. Animals in poor con-
dition mostly escape.
You can trace the disease back
to soft feed lacking the crude
fibre needed for quick bowel-
action. It moves too slowly
through the intestines, and the
entero-toxasmia germ gets going,
breeds quickly and sets up
bacterial poison.
Death from pulpy kidney is
quick—three to four hours or
less. The sheep goes dull, bites at
strange objects and loses all fear
of dogs and humans. Young
lambs take fits and pass-out
frothing at the mouth. Others
suffer from a bad-smelling scour
before death.
Rapid rotting of the carcass is
a feature (as it is of several other
diseases), and makes post-
mortem examination difficult.
Abdomen swells, skin under the
forelegs turns purple and the
wool is easily plucked out. If
the sheep is opened-up immedi-
ately after death, extra fluid will
be found around the heart; not
much else. Opened a little later,
coils of gut will be swollen with
gas, the kidney pulpy and dark-
red or grey. In older sheep the
liver is often broken down and
fluid around the heart clotted into
a jelly. If it’s not disposed of
immediately, one dead sheep can
infect the soil with millions of
germs. Burying’s no gqod. Burn
all parts of the animal, including
the wool, and fire the surround-
ing ground.
Once you’ve recognised the
trouble, keep the sheep off the
type of feed causing it. Change
the flock into a paddock where
there’s more crude fibre, or leave
them on the green-feed in the
daytime and place them on hard-
grassed paddocks at night. More
fibre means healthier bowel-
action and stops the microbes
accumulating Good idea to
feed hay or put ewes and lambs
on chaff from self-feeders for a
while. Marking seems to reduce
the spread of the disease in young
lambs. Weaning the lambs, or
yarding three - months - old
animals with their mothers once
a week, are other forms of
control.
There’s no known cure, but
vaccination gives protection.
Ewes given two doses of vaccine
—one six weeks and another two
weeks before lambing—pass on
protective elements to the lamb
m the first milk. This lasts for
the first three or four weeks,
when the lamb’s too young to
benefit by direct injections. Ideal
time to do the lambs is when
they’re from five to six weeks
old and being marked. Delay
the vaccination of older sheep
till close to the dangerous season.
For large numbers, use the
automatic vaccination gun; for
smaller numbers, the hypodermic
syringe. Best place is under the
wool-free skin on the inside of
the thigh. Sterilisation of the
skin’s not necessary—-syringes
should be well boiled. Keep the
needles sharp: they should be
16- or 17-gauge and lin. long.
To do the lambs, sit them on
a rail as for marking; grown
sheep should be turned up so that
you can get at the inner side of
the thigh. Don’t vaccinate
under the foreleg or near the
brisket. Muscles, nerves and
blood-vessels are hard to avoid.
Crosscuts
“Eskeld”: U.S. publication
“Agricultural Chemicals” sees in
the coffee-shortage a striking
example of soil-starvation:
“Brazilian soils have been
exhausted and plantations moved
progressively inland, where land
has not been farmed, but where
temperatures are somewhat
cooler. Last year the crop had
been pushed so far south that
low temperatures froze much of
it.” Coffee can be grown on the
coastal scrub-soils of N.Q. and
in New Guinea. Increasing local
consumption and rising world-
prices are worth consideration.
Always watching, of course, the
danger of the Brazil precedent.
* * *
Queensland has more grass
than in 1951 (when bushfires
caused losses totalling more than
£2,000,000) and frosts and
westerlies are drying it rapidly,
* # ♦
Australian Wool Bureau was
“very satisfied” with results of
the three-board meeting in South
Africa (T. G. Carter, president,
N.S.W. Graziers’ Association),
* * *
“E.”: Total consumption of
fertilisers in U.S.A, for 1952-53
was 23,143,000 tons, an increase
of 711,000 tons on consumption
for the previous year. Of the
1952-53 figure, 15,500,000 tons
comprised commercial mixtures,
the balance being straight element
applications.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today's values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
ere improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
n YEARS OF SERVICE
TO XBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Mkj
..r, •••>:• ~ -;•
mmm
The fast, accurate, full*
floating GL-325 offset disc
harrow is a great soil im-
prover because it gives
better burial of trash and
better penetration.
Take the hard work out
of farm carrying with the
GL-326 Va-ton carry-lift
platform, it has 101 uses
on every farm)
Rigid or spring-tyne three
point linkage and three
point linkage toolbar at
tached cultivators.
Choose from three-point
linkage and three-point
linkage toolbar attached
three and four furrow
mouldboard ploughs.
Invest in proved
FARM POWER!
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL
AOS‘6 TRACTOR
It's no experiment when you invest in the
versatile McCormick International AOS-6
tractor with "wide-base" tyres, low sil-
houette and a full line of matched three-
point linkage and toolbar equipment. The
AOS-6 has been designed and built in Aus-
tralia . . . it's been proved right for Aus-
tralian conditions.' Choose the AOS-6
Standard for mixed farms or the AOS-6
Orchard model —with downswept exhaust
for overhead clearance in your orchard.
Get the facts first hand from your local
I.H. dealer. Ask him to demonstrate on
your farm.
INTERHATIONAL
HARVESTER
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
Works: Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
01.478.38
Fruit-fly
FFICIALLY connected with
one of the fruit-fly-control
schemes mentioned by “Dust-
man” (B. 9/6/’54), I should like
to add some information con-
cerning these operations in
Western Australia.
The legislative background is
the W.A. Diseases of Plants Act,
which provides for a ballot of all
registered growers of fruit-trees,
within a given area, to determine
whether or not a compulsory
baiting-scheme shall be estab-
lished. Registered growers
include backyard-growers with
one or more trees capable of
bearing susceptible fruit.
When established by poll the
plan operates for three years. It
is managed by an elected com-
mittee (from growers in the area),
with a chairman nominated by
the Department of Agriculture,
who is a departmental officer.
The enabling Act sets out the
permissible scale of charges, and,
to give the committee an oppor-
tunity to bait a large number of
backyard-orchards at below-cost,
a subsidy has hitherto been
granted.
In the scheme with which the
writer is connected the area con-
trolled is outer-suburban, largely
built-up. This being in the
Mundaring area of the Darling
Ranges, east of Perth, the evil
influence of the careless tourist
adds to ordinary difficulties of
control; fruit thrown out of a
car, or left by picnic-parties,
makes fertile breeding-nests for
the pest.
Despite these and other dis-
advantages, the scheme has
worked well. Prior to the scheme,
at the Metro Markets, “Hills
fruit was not wanted”; last
season only one case of fruit
was rejected, and the old objec-
tions to fruit from the district
had quite disappeared. At the
poll to reconstitute the scheme
after the first three-year terra
had run-out (held on June 12,
this year) 52 per cent, of growers
voted, 90 per cent, of them in
favor of continuance.
I must correct “Dustman’s”
statement that spraying stops at
the end of summer—at least, so
far as the Eastern Hills scheme is
concerned. Operations here have
been continued to date of writing,
and are still proceeding. Of
course it is futile to spray fluid-
bait on trees during constant and
heavy rain. This year has been
moderately dry, and we have
made the most of it. These
schemes can only succeed when
committees are keen, and when
powers are truly co-operative.
A.P. DILLISTONE.
Preserving Posts
“Big Billy”; A new treatment
for wooden fencing-posts, the
double-diffusion method, has
been evolved in the U.S. Forests
Products Laboratory.
Only two chemicals are needed,
copper-sulphate and sodium-
chromate. Stand green, peeled
posts, butt-down, for two days
in a barrel of the copper-sulphate
solution (181 b. of copper-sulphate
crystals in 24gals. water).
Then switch them to a second
barrel of sodium-chromate solu-
tion (181 b. of chromate powder
in 26 gals, water). Leave butt-
down for a day, then turn the
tops down for a second day. The
two chemicals combine to form
a compound that will not dissolve
or leach. Twenty-five pounds of
each chemical will treat about
100 posts.
iron ' 80 should be “ in a
wooden barrel. Both solutions
can irritate eyes and skin, so
precautions are necessary. Rinse
posts after treatment.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
July should be mainly fine during the first half, with a
possible light-showery period early and some sharp morn-
ings. In the latter half of the month some fairly good rains
are likely. But these are mainly Coastal, where they are at
all heavy, so could not be relied on for a late planting of
wheat. It is unfortunate that advantage was not taken of
the May rains to get the crop in, as was advised in these
notes at the time. If the sun were to show a spot (and this
is possible ) more wheat could be planted with a reasonable
hope of success.
Baby Dams
“Gui”: Small water-storages
of no particular shape can be
very useful, as recent work has
demonstrated. Where the terrain
is suitable they can be made by
digging l a hole and using the soil
to form a bank across the gully.
Success depends on the bank
being impervious, so proper con-
solidation of material which is
correctly segregated is essential.
Sticks, stones and logs should
be kept out, because they are
likely to form seepage-lines. The
most impervious material, usually
day, should be placed to form a
continuous core, and the more
porous material spread around
and over it. Clay, if exposed,
dries-out and cracks-covenng
keeptheclaymoist Topdressing
these layers encourages the
growth of soil-binding plants.
Material should be consoli-
dated in layers not more than
4in. deep by working machinery
up and down the bank, the soil
being kept moist. The more clay
is puddled the more impervious
it becomes. A sheepsfoot-roller,
if available, is ideal for consoli-
dation.
Disease of Bees
“Drone B.”: Last autumn was
a bad season for Nosema disease
in Victoria, apiaries in the north
and north-east, particularly, suf-
fering fairly severe losses. In
almost all eases the apiarists
didn’t know the cause of the
losses. So a brief account of the
disease may be of interest.
Bees become infected by
taking-in the spores of the causa-
tive organism, Nosema apis, in
food or drink. The spores
germinate in the bee’s stomach,
producing an organism which
migrates to the cells of the
stomach-lining, where other
developments of the life-cycle
occur, culminating in numerous
spores. Actually the cells become
bags of spores, which break-off,
are voided with the feces and, in
this form —as part of the feces —
are highly infectious.
In the colony, main symptoms
of the disease are simply weak-"
ness and a disappearance of bees.
Often, the apiarist doesn’t see any
abnormal number of dead bees.
They just vanish, hence another
name for the disease, “disappear-
ing trouble.” Spotting of hives,
covers and frames is another
symptom.
But the symptoms can be con-
fusing and, individually, can
easily be mistaken for symptoms
of other disorders, such as
paralysis. In fact, an important
symptom is a partial paralysis of
wings and legs ; bees can’t fly far
and, in this condition, are usually
called “hoppers.” In the
advanced stage they can’t fly at
all, and crawl, climb grass and
twigs in efforts to launch them-
selves into the air, and are known
as “crawlers.” Just before death,
legs and wings are incapable of
more than a shimmering
movement.
Diarrhoea is also a symptom,
but, again; not an absolute one.
Spotting may be caused by a
non-infectious diarrhoea. Final
diagnosis depends upon a micro-
scopic examination of the
stomach of suspected bees*
Spores in “spots” will also show
under the microscope.
Weather seems to be important
—cold, wet conditions a pre-
disposing factor; a waning in
warm, fine weather. During the
warmer part of the year, too, bees
can carry a fair amount of infec-
tion without much effect. In the
U.S., Nosema disease has been
shown to be closely associated
with, if not actually the cause of,
“spring dwindle.” In the severest
outbreak in Victoria, last
autumn, bees were on grey-box.
It would be interesting to know
more about this aspect of the
trouble.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”; Winter is an im-
portant season for lawn-mainten-
ance. New lawns in which grass-
seedlings are only lin. to Hin.
high should be firmed and
smoothed with a light roller. A
few days later top the lawn with
blades set high on the mower. If
the young grass is yellow, apply
three-parts sulphate-ammonia
and one-part super-phosphate at
the rate of loz. per square yard.
This dressing should be applied
every three months in the first
year after sowing, and at least
once a year during the spring in
subsequent years.
“Lesswork”: A light but strong
crate saves much work and fuss
in catching fowls. It should be of
a size that will go into any of the
fowl-sheds. Leave one end open,
throw grain into it, and when the
fowls crowd-in, shut the end. A
sliding-door on top enables the
fowls to be lifted-out.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Good Enough
In Brisbane the other day an imported
English cleric spoke from the pulpit
against the Australian workman’s casual
comment on a completed job: “It’s
good enough; she’ll do.” Apparently he
interpreted the remark as an acceptance
of shoddy and second-rate standards.
Most Australian tradesmen I know
take a pride in their work—which will
stand comparison with the best by over-
seas tradesmen—and the casual “She’ll
"Take it away —it's radio-active!”
do” is merely a typically Australian form
of understatement. It doesn’t imply that
the tradesman is satisfied with second-
rate performance. It generally means
he’s satisfied he has done a top-notch
job.
The trouble, of course, is that the
critical, superior and, sometimes, con-
temptuous attitude of many overseas
people to Australia and things Austra-
lian still persists. Its survival is helped
by the ingrained inferiority-complex of
far too many native-born Australians
who are still influenced in their thinking
by imported traditions and inherited
second-hand ideas.
The first critics of Australia arrived
in the First Fleet, Their wailings against
the new land are on record, and they
have a strange resemblance to the mean-
ings of occasional English migrants in
the correspondence columns of our news-
papers. Many of the early migrants had
a hatred of Australia. They found an
alien world: trees that shed bark and not
leaves; a country that refused to grow
wheat planted at the wrong time; the
emu and the exotic kangaroo and the
kookaburra.
I remember the late Randolph Bed-
ford, the most passionate lover of Aus-
tralia I have ever met, chuckling in his
gruff, explosive fashion over an incurable
immigrant of his early youth who insisted
that Australia could never manufacture
anything. We could never make leather
because we did not have any “Hinglish
hoak”; we could never make iron, “be-
cause the best iron is Sussex” ; and we
could never make beer because we had
not Burton-on-Trent water! — Clem Lack
(Q.).
Road Accidents
Everyone agrees that the loss of life
in road-accidents is appalling, but once
most of us get into a car and press the
starter we forget all about it.
There is a way, however, which would
make most of us more conscious of the
cost of accidents. If it were compulsory
for all automobile insurance policies to
carry an excess-clause of, say, £25, we
would drive a lot more carefully. The
thought that any accident would cost
the driver.. £25 before the insurance com-
pany accepted any liability would make
that little extra speed seem not so worth
while.
It may sound cynical to say that £25
means more to a motorist than a man’s
life; the truth is that the average driver
knows wfyat £25 is, while a human life
is something he cannot comprehend.
To stop road-accidents we must deal
in things which everyone can compre-
hend, and excess-conditions on insurance
policies are something drivers do under-
stand. Any insurance salesman will tell
you that most car-owners prefer to pay
a higher premium to remove the excess-
clause, if they can arrange it. — Mullum
(N.S.W.).
Senate and Stability
Among the problems facing the new
Federal Government is that of Senate-
reform. It’s not new, of course, but with
a Senate election early in 1956 it’s urgent.
In the present Senate there are 31
Senators who support the Government,
and 29 who support Labor, Of these, 18
Government Senators and 12 Labor
Senators will be up for election. This
means that the Government parties must
win three Senate seats out of five in
each of the six States if they are to have
a majority in the new Senate. Taking the
last House of Representatives election as
a guide, and allowing for an improvement
in electoral-stocks, the Government’s
prospects of doing so are not very
bright; most unlikely, in fact.
Even if the Government were success-
ful in all States except N. S. Wales it
would mean an evenly-divided Senate
—3O a side. The immediate effect would
be a Senate deadlock, as the President of
the Senate has a deliberative but not a
casting vote, and equal votes in the
Senate are resolved in the negative.
This state of affairs is the result of
proportional representation. But what
is the alternative? The system of Senate-
election before 1949 was far from satis-
factory: it grossly exaggerated voting-
returns, and it was a case of either one
whole Senate-group in or out.
Reform designed to eliminate or pal-
liate the influence of party-politics in the
Senate,,and to make it a State’s House
and a House of Review, would be wel-
come, but it would require a revolution
in thinking on the part of the people and
political parties. It certainly could, not
be accomplished within two years. The
immediate problem of Senate-reform is
how to make the Senate work after the
1956 Senate election.
If faced with a hostile Senate in 1956,
the Menzies Government would have to
move for a double-dissolution. Australia
has had too many elections in the last
five years without wanting the threat of
more. Frequent elections don’t make for
national stability, and they cost money.
In December, 1950, a Labor Senate
select sub-committee, headed by Senator
McKenna, proposed an amendment to
the Constitution to provide that when a
deadlock arose between the two Houses
they should resolve the question by vot-
ing as one House, It is odd that Labor
should have put forward such a proposal,
when it is committed to abolish the
Senate, but it has something in it. It
is not the perfect solution, but at least
it is preferable to. the constant election
campaigns which are inevitable if the
Senate is left as it is.—D, J, K, (Q.).
Telegraph Services
The P.M.G.’s Department is obsessed
with the idea that teleprinters must be
more efficient than Morse lines (B.
14/4/’54) simply because they are tele-
printers. Machines have been installed
in offices where the average telegraph
business does not warrant more than the
normal Morse channel.
The Hunter Valley scheme in N. S.
Wales is a perfect example. Here, in a
network of offices once served by a
Morse-circuit, teleprinters have been
brought into operation at enormous cost
without any improvement in the grade
of service—there is not enough business
handled to ensure that the faster work-
ing-speed possible with ’printers is used
to capacity.
It is stupid to suggest, as the depart-
ment has done, that the public is happier
because it gets a nicely-printed form.
What’s the difference between a message
typed by remote-control and one typed
on the spot by a postal-clerk? My guess
is that the public would gladly accept a
handwritten copy if costs could be re-
duced to give a cheaper service with-
out any lowering of standards.
Costs? Twelve-thousand-pounds went
into the initial installation of the Hunter
Valley scheme. Every year £4OOO, at
least, will go on Maintenance —in tech-
nicians’ salaries, spare-parts, motor-van
costs and other charges.
Reserve teleprinters must be kept
standing-by in case of breakdowns,
which are frequent. A Morse-circuit re-
quires so little apart from line-mainten-
ance (which is necessary in any case) that
the cost can be ignored. 1 have yet to
see a Morse-sounder replaced because
of a technical fault, and most country
postal-clerks do their own typewriter-
repairs.
The goats in. all this are the telegraph-
ists and, to some extent, the postal-clerks.
A high grade of service is offered the
public by the telegraph- and postal-ser-
vices, mainly, I think, because most
postal-staffs feel embarrassed by the high
rates. Yet these charges cannot be re-
duced while such grandiose schemes as
the Hunter Valley are foisted on us.
Because the department is showing a
loss, the call for economy goes out regu-
larly from central office ; but the only
economies imposed are directed at the
working-staffs.—V. J. H. (W.A.).
Later Retiring-age?
The question of a later retiring-age is
up again, and there’s no doubt that
something serious will have to be done
about it soon.
The burden of taxation necessary to
cover age-pensions will almost certainly
increase as time goes by. If people were
allowed to work longer they would not
only ease the burden on social-service
payments, but would actually contribute
to tax-revenue.
Nowadays we are assured on the aver-
age a longer life than were our grand-
parents. Whereas, 50 years ago, only
one in 30 of the population was over
65, today the proportion is nearer one
in 10. And most of that one-in-10 sec-
tion are fully capable of remaining in
active employment, though perhaps in
lighter work or a less responsible posi-
tion. Many would like to keep working.
Now, not only is the retiring-age the
same as it was years ago, but a move is
afoot in the Commonwealth public ser-
vice to have the optional retiring-age
lowered. This optional public-service
retiring-age is only 60 now!
If this earlier retirement is introduced
—even in, say, only the public service—
“Better change th' subject , Les. We've discussed poetry long enough."
the' social consequences could be appall-
ing. The taxpayer is already socked
heavily to meet the cost of pensions;
with a big new class of pensioner devel-
oped at a still earlier age, it would mean
that an ever-smaller number of active
workers would have to support an ever-
increasing number of idle, unproductive
pensioners, most of whom would be
physically and mentally capable of active
toil.
A later retiring-age, not an earlier one,
is what Australia needs, and must have.
—Keith McMillan (Vic.).
Car-stealing
“Karrimba” (B. 23/6/’54) is right about
car-stealing in N. S, Wales except for
his belief that “many of these people
have every intention of returning the
‘borrowed’ vehicles.”
From my own experience I’d say very
few joyriders have any intention of
returning the vehicles they souvenir. In
most cases the “borrowed” cars are
abandoned wherever they chance to be
when the borrower has finished with
them, or when they have run out of
petrol, or when they have crashed while
the driver was trying to out-speed the
police.
The charge of “illegally using” is a
carry-over from when most of us went
about our business on horseback. Then,
rather than walk any considerable dis-
tance, it was not unusual to “soldier” a
likely-looking cuddy.
On arrival at his destination the illegal
user would turn the noddy’s head to-
wards home and give him a welt across
the rump, whereupon the prad would
set out for home in top gear. Next
morning he’d be grazing with his mates.
This somewhat arbitrary method of
hitch-hiking was not deemed to be steal-
ing within the meaning of the Act.
Hence the charge of illegally using.
When our legislators drew-up a sec-
tion to cover the illegal use of motor-
vehicles they overlooked just one thing
—even though you point their bonnets
in the right direction and belt them across
the tail-lights motor-cars make no
attempt whatever to go home. — Spinifex
(N.S.W.).
Secret Ballot
J. J. Brown has lost the job of State-
secretary of the Victorian branch of the
A.R.U. to J. W. Neill, but Melbourne
will not readily forget Mr. Brown’s
12-year dictatorship. Those were the
days when trains and trams used to
be stopped for weeks on Mr. Brown’s
orders and we became quite accustomed
to walking to work; private buses could
only pass Mr. Brown’s picket-lines if
they held a pass signed by the big boss
himself.
Vignettes of Mr. Brown in his great
days come back to me: Mr. Brown as
guSst-speaker at the Junior Chamber of
Commerce, cowering his hosts with a
voice of thunder, and abusing capitalists,
monopolists and Fascists and predicting
complete Socialism in Australia before
very long; Mr, Brown leading the May
Day procession, his powerful chin push 7
ing purposefully onward; Mr. Brown oh
the Yarra Bank attacking Menzies,
Churchill and Eisenhower.
J.J.B. was much quieter in recetit years,
but w© knew he was there in the back-
ground and we kept our slides in good
repair. And now he’s gone. The Rail-
ways don’t even want him. “We’re not
compelled to re-employ him,” say the
commissioners.
What caused all this? Merely a
secret ballot ordered by the Arbitration
Court. It all seems so hard to believe.—
Jay Ess (Vic.).


Grammar
I suspect that some unfortunate teacher
must have struggled vainly to get funda-
mental grammar-rules into Robert
Howie’s cranium, hence his vendetta
against teachers and grammar
(B. 16/6/’54).
His history-teachers must have had no
better luck, or he would have known that
about two-thousand years ago the peoples
of France, Spain, Portugal, Italy and
Rumania all spoke Latin and could con-
verse quite freely with one another.
Then came the Barbarian invasions,
and all learning (and grammar) was lost.
The languages quickly descended to the
level of patois intelligible only to those
who lived in the locality, having nothing
in common with the patois of the other
countries. They remained at the patois-
level until the resurgence of learning,
when writers and scholars began to estab-
lish some sort of order from the chaos
to enable thoughts and ideas to be clearly
and precisely expressed. In other words,
they instituted the rules of grammar.
In that way the civilised languages of
France, Spain, Portugal, Italy and
Rumania were created to replace the bar-
baric patois. The civilised language
became the language of educated people,
but the ignorant and semi-civilised con-
tinued to use the patois, and in some
places still do so.
A similar state of affairs prevailed in
England, Germany, Holland, Denmark,
Norway and Sweden, whose original
language was German. The county dia-
lects are a survival of the patois form
of the language.
A much later example can be seen with
the Boers in South Africa, who began
with Dutch and have finished-up with
Taal, which is intelligible to themselves
but not to the Dutch,
Any language worthy of the name is a
vehicle for the correct and precise ex pres
sion of ideas. It cannot fulfil that pur-
pose if every person is to be a law unto
himself.
Grammar is little more than an aid to
beginners to enable them to express their
ideas with precision. Once a writer has
learnt the fundamental rules of grammar
he automatically writes clearly and pre-
cisely, just as a cricketer who has been
taught the correct method of stroke-
making soon makes correct strokes auto-
matically.—No Patois (N.S.W.).
Robert Howie painted quite a moving
picture of children struggling with the
declension of the personal pronoun.
Unfortunately, the effect was spoiled by
a composition I had just corrected. It
began: “Many people take there children
to picnics. I, me father and mother went
to a picnic last Sunday. There was many
people at the picnic,”
Is that the kind of English R.H. advo-
cates? True, it is coherent, but it cannot
be called a high standard of expression.
We teachers “live in the past” because
the grammar-books we use outline the
present standard of educated English, It
is not a question of personal taste —we
must teach what is set out by the
authorities.
Personally, I like to teach it. I like
to think that 50 children each year rise
to higher aspirations and develop an ear
and an eye for correctness, which, after
all, is logical. We must distinguish between
“there,” a place, and “their,” belonging
to. We must distinguish between “me,”
the object of something done, and “my,”
in possession of something. In other
words, we teachers are fighting a battle
—logic versus careless indifference.
One of my pupils walks to school with
me every morning, and persists in this
kind of conversation: “I were sick with
asthma last night, Miss •. But I done
ray homework all the same.”
Yes, I understand what she is saying,
but I am not looking forward to the
time when the English language will
“quickly shed its encumbrances” to make
this kind of chatter lawful.—S. P. (Q.).
Melbourne
If Victoria’s civic authorities a cen-
tury ago had been as money-shy as are
those of today, Melbourne would have
grown-up as a shanty-town. The old-
timers settled for broad boulevards,
costly to lay and maintain, superb
gardens and fine public buildings unsur-
passed in this corner of the world. But,
except for the Shrine, and unless you
include hospitals, no monumental public
works have been undertaken in the city
since Flinders-street station was opened
before World War I.
The rich City Council has never been
game to sell its valuable but outmoded
Town Hall and build another on one
of the commanding sites still available
“Better get cracking, pal—we got visitors."
around the town. Talk to State politi-
cians about a short and shallow under-
ground railway-link, which is just a
routine job by today’s standards, and they
clutch for the smelling-salts. (London’s
first deep tube was bored more than half
a century ago, when the District and Met-
ropolitan Underground lines were begin-
ning to look old-fashioned.)
Try to sell Victorian Bumbles the idea
of building something in Spencer-street
that looks like a railway terminal! After
a generation of talking a start has been
made on a 100yds. subway beneath
Flinders-street. It doesn’t seem to be very
complicated, after all. The work is going
ahead quickly, and probably for less than
it cost to prepare, reject and pigeonhole
the many previous plans.
One thing I’ll admit. Where it’s a
matter of sport—cricket-grounds, Olym-
pic-pools, racecourses—money and man-
power just don’t mean a thing in Mel-
bourne. — Rigel (Vic.).
Queen, Parliament and People
Since Law knows, and submits to, only
itself, “MacD.” (B. 9/6/’54) should know
that legal theory is not law, no matter
how it may help to interpret it. His use
of the word “Crown” indicates that he
has not heeded the warning of Professor
Maitland in Constitutional History of
England :—
If you are told that the crown has this
power or that power, do not be content
until you know who legally has the power
—is it the king, is it one of his secretaries?
As to the real powers of the Crown,
there are at least 30 leading constitu-
tional authorities and statesmen, not for-
getting Queen Victoria, Edward VII
and George V, who show that the mon-
arch is not a rubber-stamp and that Min-
isterial advice can be rejected.
Contrary to Clem Lack’s idealistic
theories (B. 9/6/’54), Parliament does not
control the Cabinet, but is continually
being made subservient to the dictates of
ruthless machine-politics. I’d like both
Clem Lack and “MacD.” to answer this
question:
If a majority of electors —legally en-
titled to vote—in an electoral division,
and in a majority of divisions, petitioned
the Governor of the State to dissolve
Parliament on the ground that it did not
represent the majority-will on any given
issue, and Cabinet backed by Parliament
were to advise the Governor not to dis-
solve it, who would the Governor be
legally bound to obey, the people or the
Cabinet and Parliament?
The answer to that question is of
crucial importance to the future of Aus-
tralia. —A. A. C. (Q.).
Wine
As with the wheatgrowers, there are
headaches ahead of the growers of wine-
grapes.
This year there were record crops in
all the producing States, on both dry
and irrigation areas. On the M.I.A. the
crop looks like being in the vicinity of
25,000 tons —a record; about 5000 tons
more than last year. It was all taken by
the wine-makers, but from April 30 at
low values for spirit, returning the
grower about £8 a ton for his grapes.
He cannot carry on at that price, and
those not solely dependent on wine-grapes
for a living are rooting out their vines.
There has been a change in the tastes
of the wine-drinking public. Once the
demand was for the heavy-port types,
but now it is for the lighter types. As
a result black grapes are in the discard.
That does not apply only to Australia;
it is a world-wide trend. European coun-
tries are spending huge sums on advertis-
ing in an effort to restore the popularity
of red wines.
The crushing import-duties in the
U.K. have slowed the sales of all export-
ing countries, but Australia has been hit
hardest.
Unsold wine is piling up in South Aus-
tralia at the rate of four-million gallons
a year. Sales in Australia have dropped
from 13,432,000 gallons in 1951-52 to
9,381,000 gallons in 1953. The crush-
ing of grapes next year must be limited
to the amount of wine sold within the
next nine months. Average consumption
in Australia is a gallon a head, and if
that could be increased only slightly it
would take care of the surplus.
France has a wine-retailer to every 90
people; Australia one to several
thousands.
Although the Maxwell report did not
favor the selling of single bottles by
licensed grocers in N. S. Wales there
seems no logical reason why they should
not be permitted to do so —as in Can-
berra and Victoria.
Costs of distribution through this
channel are much lower than with the
present system, and, with stocks piling
up, there is no doubt the makers (who
own most of the wine-saloons) would
welcome another outlet.
It would be a great help to the indus-
try.—R. M. (N.S.W.).
“We Were the Rats”
I’ve just re-read Lawson Glassop’s
banned We Were the Rats, and with as
much interest and enjoyment as I did the
, first time.
Because a policeman who did not know
: Shakspeare’s Christian-name, and who
thought Lord Byron might have been on
Lord Mountbatten’s South-East Asia
Command during World War 11, was
offended by the book, Australians are
forbidden to read this arresting story of
the siege of Tobruk.
No later-printed novel on World War
II by an Australian author has been
accorded the same undeserved fate. The
Rats is a fine piece of writing, with
only one or two minor weaknesses.
Some of its successors have been far in-
ferior as literary works; some have not
had nearly so inspiring a story to tell.
But all have contained, without incurr-
ing official displeasure, at least some
obscenities.
It’s time efforts were made to get the
book removed from the banned-list; it
may well bear reprinting. Apropos,
exactly how and by whom can a book
be taken off our index? — Keima (Q.).
TV and Theatre
If TV caused such a drastic falling-off
in film audiences (B. 30/6/’54), what
effect will it have on the remains of Aus-
tralian legit, theatre?
Certainly TV should be of financial
benefit to many of our excellent legit,
actors, long used to giving £lOO-a-week
performances for nothing at all, or a
pittance if they’re lucky. Conversely,
some of our script-bound radio-actors
must have hoped the Royal Commission
would ban TV from Australia for ever.
But why won’t Australians (Sydney-
siders, anyhow) go to live theatre? A
stupid French film draws full houses for
three months, probably because it is
“naughty”; whereas an intelligent and
well-acted French play, which is much
naughtier to boot, is lucky to run three
weeks. — Parram (N.S.W.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 285
Across
I—There is no need to roll this bats-
men who are weaker or crazy,
but East and I dream a lot. (6-4)
s—The final letter in the third metal.
(4)
9—Nag gives the Texan pip. (8)
11—Herb has a malicious gossip with
a Japanese wound inflicted by
Felix. (6)
13 — Rescuing Dr. W.G. from a run
out feature that palliates crooked-
ness. (6, 5)
14 — There’s a century of this in the
coffee charge. (3)
15— Hot egg, scrambled, for a yearling
sheep swine to obtain. (6)
16— So long, so long as there is no
such thing to perfectionist wicket-
keepers. (8)
18 —Gangsters are shellfish with a
very swelled head. (8)
20 —Stealthily creeps along part of a
chain in a steamer. (6)
22 Nothing about unrefined metal.
(3)
23 — Shingle a Wagnerian actor (rich
old-fashioned style) in a Mel-
bourne beach palace of Royalty.
(11)
26 —Two boys knew. (6)
28— Keynote equipped with cogs and
the corners turned up an influen-
tial Venetian, a Communist. (3-5)
29 — Father-love is in the panelling.
(4)
30 — Ganymede and Hebe put up with
a Flemington event. (3-7)
Down
1 — Yew bite into our incomes like
the Treasurer does. (5)
2 Shipping cannot manage such a
place for spotting a six by Clark.
OD
3 The Idriess biography is this
vegetable. (5)
4 A striking success at tennis. (3)
6 Tavern. (3)
7 I leave icy irons in trees. (9)
8— The bumper death of the senior
boy’s menial. (3-3)
10 —Buttons a noted Australian poli-
tician, who is not as red as our
last. (4)
12 —Don’t stop obstructing Lord
Ronald with a degree. (5)
14— A runner in the six-furlong race
is not necessarily Pegasus, but
Henry is golf gone wrong. (6, 5)
15 — Hilly drone taunted. (9)
17—Loafer gets a quack first, then just
enough to break a duck. (5)
19 —Edward of Tasmania tried the
flavor. (6)
21 —Therefore, the Queen is on leave.
(4)
24 Girl who may take the hiding
alone. (5)
25 The moustache of Amos might be
so described for a king with a
gilty conscience. (5)
27 — Penniless assent. (3)
28— A short spell in the water. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 284


II rn\
i'h
ip ii»
[ffi HU
Cm^nii
ii
ii kd man an ii H
n an no cm DD nil
i cm cm an nu u ii
II: im,
II
I WTOIiI
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. MeGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY.
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY
W. J. McCRISTAL
M.R.A.C.P.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary:
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., A.C.I.S.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA:
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K. 8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins, 8.A.,
LL.M., Dip. Ed.
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.A.S.A.
•
QUEENSLAND-.
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairman)
F. B. Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
1 13 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
j. L. Travers. Q.C., LL.B., M.P.
Manager: D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke, LL.B.
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry, F.C.A. (Aust.)
Manager: W. Dwyer
Hie
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Assurance Society Limited
<lncorporated In New South Wales in 187 S)
Continues to Progress
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1953;
★ NEW BUSINESS RECORD established by the issue ©f 10.125
Policies assuring £12,863,721.
★ ASSETS INCREASED BY £2,269,237 after providing £28,585
for Depreciation, and now total £25,747,579.
<! Policies in Force exceed 127,000, assuring
over £82,000,000
<1 Premium Income amounted to £3,003,787
I Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1953,
totalled £978,845, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£15,750,000
f Special Additional Reserves amount to
£BOO.OOO
q Increased Bonuses
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
