

THE
w
E LT
PRODUCERS OP
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
A GUIDE TO URANIUM INVESTORS page 23
«The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3884
Wednesday, July 21, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ART CENTRE OF BATH IS ITS HOLBURNE OF MENSTRIE MUSEUM
THE city of Bath in Somerset has many claims to fame, not least of which
is its association with Admiral Arthur Phillip (1738-1814), first
Governor of New South Wales. A memorial tablet bearing a bronze
relief portrait of the Admiral and an inscription was unveiled in Bath
Abbey by Viscount Wakefield in 1937.
Bath possesses the only natural hot springs in Britain and the City’s
prosperity from time immemorial has been due to this bubbling water
which has a constant daily flow of half a million gallons at a temperature
of 120 degrees F. The existence of these springs attracted the Romans
in a.d. 54. They built swimming baths, steam baths and mud baths at
Aquae Sulis, as they called it, on a scale unsurpassed outside Rome itself.
For 350 years Bath was a Roman health resort and evidence of their
occupation in the form of votive altars and magnificently carved fragments
are preserved in the museum adjoining the Roman Baths. These exhibits
range from loaded Roman dice to the bronze head of Minerva, discovered
in 1727, which is one of Bath’s greatest treasures.
This museum, however, is not the only one in Bath —there are two
others; the most important of which is the Holburne of Menstrie Museum
of Art illustrated and which has a wide reputation, far beyond the limits
of Bath. The collections include important works by Gainsborough,
Reynolds. Hoppner, Constable and many examples of the Dutch and
Flemish schools. The antique silver of the 15th to the 19th centuries is
unrivalled outside London and the bronzes are well known to connoisseurs.
The collections of miniatures, porcelain and majolica are also outstanding.
Originally the art collection was made by Sir T, William Holburne, Bart.,
and the present galleries were opened in 1915. They are housed in a
splendid 18th-century building designed as a pavilion by C. Harcourt
Masters which stands at the end of Pulteney Street.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere .
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Fairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses' Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stolts Correspondence College
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 251 Murray St.. Perth.
i”“~ GUI AND MAIL THIS COUPON'”--
! To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
I obligation, full particulars of your Oourse/s in
!
| MY NAME
J ADDRESS
} (S.B. 1334) .AGE
The Red Page
FREUD LETTERS
Freud’s long series of letters to Wilhelm
Fliess, The Origins of Psycho-Analysis
with Drafts and Notes, 1887-1902, edited
by Marie Bonaparte, Anna Freud. Ernst
Kris, and translated by Eric Mosbacher
and James Strachey (Imago), were sold
by Fliess’s widow to a Berlin dealer in
1928 on condition, says the back-flap,
that they would never reach Freud, “who
would destroy them.”
Fleeing from Hitler, the dealer sold
them to Marie Bonaparte in France ;
visiting Freud in Vienna in 1937 as his
pupil, Mine. Bonaparte mentioned the
letters to him. He was indignant that
they should have been sold, and “offered
to compensate her for their destruction.”
She refused ; they were in a Vienna safe-,
deposit when the Nazis overran Austria,
but as a Princess of Greece and Denmark
she was able to empty the box under the
eyes of the Gestapo and remove the
letters to Paris, where they wore out the
war at the Danish legation.
It’s a romantic story for a scientist’s
letters, but the best part of it is Freud’s
wish to destroy the letters —no doubt if
the story had been told to him of another
man there would have been a learned
analysis of a mental return to the super-
stition of the savage, that he who held
a man’s possessions was enabled by them
to do the man harm.
Or maybe not. In his lifetime even the
learned who explained or predicted
Freud’s attitude were liable to shocks ;
and it is not proposed in this notice to
say Tmore than that these 284 items
selected from the saved papers, and mak-
ing a fine thick book of some 450 pages,
are true to label; in them we do see
being born the Freudian system ; and no
doubt it is not mere arrogance on the
part of the editors to assume that this
system so much changed and developed
the study of psychology as to become
the origin of our modern conception of
it. In 1897, for instance, we find him
telling Fliess of an absorbingly interest-
ing case, with a synopsis that is almost a
burlesque of Freudianism and of the
novels it was to inspire:
Father
age 64, healthy
Patient, hysteric
I
Eldest sister
hyst. psychosis
I
2nd sister
Slightly neurotic
Slightly involved
with patient
I
3rd, 4th and sth
sisters completely
healthy (spared
by patient)
Uncle
genius, perverse
dipsomaniac from
age of 50
/
Eldest son
Dementia in early
youth
/
2nd son
Drinker, still
healthy
I
Daughter
obsessional
/
Second marriage
son
Crazy poet
/
Daughter
Hyst. psychosis
I
Small daughter?
Young son? j
In the same year, we find him on the
edge of one of his greatest theories,
fumbling towards a statement that was
to become a household word through-
out the world:
Only one idea of general value has
occurred to me. 1 have found love of the
mother and jealousy of the father in my
own case too, and now believe it to be a
general phenomenon of early childhood
If that is the case, the gripping power of
“CEdipus Rex,” in spite of all the rational
objections to the inexorable fate that the
story presupposes, becomes intelligible, and
one can understand why later dramas were
such failures... .The idea has passed
through my head that the same thing may
lie at the root of “Hamlet.”
That is an immense preview of modern
thought for one letter.
Fliess was himself a theorist, and
plugged one all-embracing theory of life,
a little too clinical for general mention,
with considerable force, but less and less
success; and, as often happens, it was
the unsuccessful Fliess who dropped the
correspondence as Freud’s fame grew:
indeed, the second-last item of the
correspondence is an acknowledgment
of Fliess's congratulations on Freud's
hard-won professorship; and it is an
education to us that it was an education
to such a student of the mind as Freud to
learn how such things are done:
One of my patients heard about the
matter and went into action on her own.
She did not rest until she had made the
Minister’s acquaintance at a party, made
herself agreeable to him, and secured a
promise from him through a mutual woman
friend that he would give the professorship
to the doctor who had cured her. But,
being sufficiently well-informed to know
that a first-promise from him meant nothing
at all, she approached him personally, and
I believe that if a certain Bocklin had been
in her possession instead of in that of her
aunt.... I should have been appointed
three months earlier. As it is, his Excel-
lency will have to satisfy himself with a
modern picture for the gallery which he
intends to open, naturally not for himself.
Anyway, in the end the Minister most
graciously announced to my patient while
he was having dinner at her house that the
appointment had gone to the Emperor for
signature... .Congratulations and bouquets
keep pouring in, as if the role of sexuality
had been suddenly recognised by his
Majesty, the interpretation of dreams con-
firmed by the Council of Ministers, and the
necessity of the psycho-analytic therapy of
hysteria carried by a two-thirds majority in
Parliament. I have obviously become reput-
able again, and my shyest admirers now
greet me from a distance in the street.
Among the letters are printed some
14 drafts; essays or notes towards the
statement of his theories; e.g., page
208 :~
Poetry and Fine Frenzy
The mechanism of creative writing is the
same as that of hysterical phantasies
And at the end of the book is printed
his long “Project for a Scientific
Psychology,” written in 1895.
Congo
Felice Bellotti has some hard things to
say about the ruling classes of the Bel-
gian Congo in Fabulous Congo' , trans-
lated from the Italian by Mervyn Savill
(Dakers), a fine large-paper production
with 62 reproductions of photographs,
superb pictures; even the chiefs’
daughters with their clothes on . . .
As Bellotti sets it out, the Congo has
arrived at much the situation we had
in Australia when Macarthur wanted to
create an Australian aristocracy with con-
vict serfs: in the 921,900 square miles
there are estimated to be 14,700,000
Africans and about 57,000 non-Africans,
mostly Europeans. But though theoreti-
cally settlement is made easy for European
migrants, it works out that no one with-
out a capital of £30,000 has much
chance; and the tradition-encrusted
“monopoly,” the Societe Generate, which
runs the country, “doesn’t want poor-
whites.” But working the country with
negroes, says Mr. Bellotti, is tending to
kill them off: taking men from villages
lowers the birthrate; and there is a
wastage of up to 18 per cent, a year of
dead, unfit and deserters.
Towards the end of his book he takes
up the subject again in his inquiry into
the Union Mmiere du Haul Katanga’s
control of the copper hills of Kolwezi
and the uranium mines of Shinkolobwe,
some 15 miles from Jadotville, and the
Forminiere’s diamond-mines in the Kasai
Province, which in 1949 put out 725.,000
carats for jewellery and more than
9,000,000 carats of industrial diamonds,
the biggest single production-centre in
the world, and the greatest producer of
industrial diamonds. Shituru produces
some 4800 tons of cobalt a year at $3 a
pound, and about £24-million worth of
copper ; all for the U.M.H.K., which has
£55-million worth of plant, and exports
worth of metal a year; not
including uranium and radium, which
are such secret matters that Mr. Bellotti
considers he has something of a journa-
listic scoop in being able to describe a
visit to Shinkolobwe.
But these matters of high policy and
big business are the least of Mr. Beilotti's
banquet for the general reader ; his sur-
vey of the natives and wild life of the
C ongo is full of interest and information.
The Congo’s tribes range from the
Watussi, whose chief is also their smallest
man, only 6ft. sin., to the several races of
pigmies, some not much higher than 4ft.
There are the white-robed tribes of mag-
nificent men and fine-faced women who
derive from Egypt, and the ordinary
Bantus, whose witch-doctors, says Mr.
Bellotti, are often wiser than they are
given credit for. He quotes as authentic
the case of a man known to have syphilis
who did not have it after a night of
witch-doctor’s medicine and ceremonial.
There is a fine account of the battle of
a tribe of Bakumu with a troop of gorillas
in which the Bakumu lost eight dead
“literally torn to pieces, and about 20
wounded by stones and branches hurled
from the trees,” and the gorillas lost 33
dead “and an unspecified number
wounded.” The point of the story is
that gorilla-hunts were forbidden by the
authorities, and a hunter’s permit to go
after gorillas is worth £250 —wherefor
the Belgian commissioner was very
angry with the Bakumu, who had
“cheated” him of more than £Booo’ in
their defence of their settlement.
There is a hunting-scene in which one
of the game-officials goes at night after
a leopard, a powerful lamp attached to
his forehead to keep the leopard in sight
until, some 15ft. away, he shoots him
dead, and a great many stories of lion-
hunts and hippo-hunts, etc., and the
dreadful things that are done by inex-
perienced hunters; but there is nothing
quite so fine as the bravery of the pigmies
who rush in among herds of wild
elephants and put nooses round the legs
of elephants about to stampede, while
an accomplice winds the other end of
the rope round a likely tree, or the almost
unbelievable story of the pigmy method
of killing wild elephants by running in
under them and slashing up into their
bellies with swords, then jumping clear
to hamstring the enraged elephant’s hind
legs as he takes off.
Mr. Bellotti has the journalist’s eye
for readable detail wherever he goes in
the Congo, and one of his best stories
is of the effect of civilisation upon the
negroes around Leopoldville. With the
arrival of the first six-cylinder car many
years ago, universal admiration made
“six-cylinder” the superlative everywhere,
equal to Hollywood’s “colossal.” A
Portuguese merchant placed an order in
England for “tens of thousands of yards
of printed cotton which had for a pat-
tern six sparking-plugs in a circle”; and
soon every negress in Leopoldville had
to have a dress of it, “the hallmark of
excellence and beauty”: ,
Now things have changed. Twenty-ton
lorries are now the rage, and the beautiful
Congo girls today go about in skirts with
vingt tonnes printed all over them.
AFTER-DINNER SPEECH
In an address to a, literary gathering in Sydney
not long ago, the editor of an Australian newspaper
said that what’Australia needed more than anything
' was a Dryden or a Swift; instead of bothering about
anthologies of poetry, we should concentrate on
satire. The question of what would happen if we
did was not raised at the meeting . . .
“Satire,” he said, “is what this country needs;
It’s time you stopped encouraging this jingle
Of pretty poetry that no one reads,
And raised yourselves a Dryden or a Swift.
With pens to set your feeble brains a-tingle.”
With rounds of masochistical applause,
They cheered him to his seat,’ and not a single
Murmur of dissent was heard, because
It’s not polite to argue at a dinner:
Logic and lobster-mayonnaise don’t mingle.
Next day, his typisl, opening his mail.
Issued, reluctant, from her glassy pingle,
Bearing a dingy paper, penned in pale
Sad ink, the writing somewhat thin and crabbed,
And, nonchalantly smoothing her neat shingle,
Fluted: “Some clergyman just left this stuff
with me,
A gloomy fellow, set my nerves a-jingle.
Looks like a pamphlet knocking Christianity,
He said his name was Dean or something like it,
What nerve! They ought to beat him with a
tringle.”
“I’m busy now: who’s on Church rounds this
week?
I simply can’t read every bit of fingle-
Fangle stuff; and what confounded cheek
To think I’ll wade through bilge that isn’t typed ;
I’d sooner read the Log of Thomas Cringle.”
Church Rounds, who kept an eye on Education
During his leisure-time, had not a single
Minute to spare; he read, with irritation,
The first outrageous page and then the last:
“Whoever this cove is, he’s lost a shingle!”
“Tell the boss,” he said, “there’s nothing in it,
The chap’s more foolish than a cod or zingel;
Don’t waste the paper’s time another minute;
Slang Christianity—without an • affidavit!
They ought to choke him with his own
surcingle.” ,
It seems, we fear, that if the shade of Dryden
With Swift’s astringent spirit could commingle
And find some Austral poet’s pen to hide in,
The Press would think his verse too rude to
print:
The pea-shooter’s its weapon, not the swingle.
It aims from firm positions on the fence
And hard enough to make small victims tingle,
But not enough to topple heads; it’s sense
To try and please the donkey and the man;
Principles and profits never mingle.
Experts, of course, are hired to shoot the peas,
Specialists—approved varieties—may mingle-
Mangle simple issues when they please,
Quite often when mere amateurs have raised
them:
The devil take them —to a deep dark dingle!
N.S.W.
DOROTHY AUCHTERLONIE
Out of the Dead Land
The Jindyworobak Anthology has been
running, says its 1953 editor, Colin
Thiele, for fifteen years; its intense culfi.
vation of the Australian scene has
advanced so far in this issue as practi-
cally to remove every living human from
it
One turns it over, empty scene hv
empty scene; after Martin Haley’s
“Queensland Midwinter Day,” and three
wonderful, almost Maxfield Parrish,
evocations by the editor of sunrise, noon
and sunset on the Flinders Ranges, one
comes to a “Deserted Farm” by C. K.
Stead ; then, just over the page, to an-
other “Farm,” by lan Mudie —here at
last, one imagines, will be a cup of tea
and some human companionship.
But no! Two pages of poem, and Mr.
Mudie is still standing at the door;—
... I was afraid to knock, fearing to
complete
a vision of vanished civilisations silted over
by time and the cloying alluvial of despair.
And so on. One is not decrying the
charm of landscapes in verse; but an
anthology full of them, or of inertia—
“ Dead Tree,” “Death Song for Woon-
ona,” “Fisherman, Drowned Beyond the
West Coast” .. . And Mr. Thiele one
of our finest humorous-story writers!
To look singly at any of these pieces
is to get a very different impression. Mr.
Devaney’s “Death Song” is a most
moving lament; Mr. Mudie’s farm is one
of his complete catalogues of signifi-
cances ; Vivian Smith's drowned fisher-
man is caught in a strong if curiously
shaped net of thought:—
Wind and sea grow over and under the open
storm,
The quick and pointless tyranny of nets
that tied their hands,
and fish caged forever in the boat’s square
welt;
drowned in their fumbling nets all miles
from land,
And their boat storm-rolled like a dead bird
in the sea.
And then there are the Roland Robin-
sons, “The Gymea,” for instance, where
Sudden, the Lowrys’ scream;
a blue and crimson flash,
sears across this dream, a ■
chills my timid flesh;
And for him the landscape, though he
does not meet anything human in it,
certainly moves when the rock itself
bounds away in “Rock Wallaby.”
Reviewed Briefly
’Tis Folly to Be Wise : Lion Feucht-
wanger (Hutchinson). This old master of
the historical novel is still ahead of most
competitors in the field, although the
present novel is not to be compared with
The Ugly Duchess or Jew Siiss. It has to
do with the last months and death of
Jean Jacques Rousseau ; makes much of
the mystery which some authorities still
believe surrounded his end, though a
verdict of “by natural causes” has been
given by most historians ; then traces the
subsequent histories of some of the people
who knew Jean Jacques at Ermenonville,
where the Marquis de Girardin had pro-
vided the elderly and slightly insane
philosopher with a home. Among the
main characters are Girardin’s son, Fer-
nand, and his beloved 4 Therese, Jean
Jacques’s rather bovine wife, and her
scoundrelly lover, a groom ; and villagers
from the Girardin estates who assume
importance during the revolution. Feucht-
wanger uses his novel to interpret the
ways in which the revolutionary philo-
sophy of Rousseau affected France, the
larger world (especially America) and
some of the people who paid most heed
to his teachings. The intricate plot, with
great numbers of characters and many
ramifications, is most expertly handled.
April Gold: Viola Bayley (Dent). A
good tale, attractively illustrated with
line-drawings, for girls and boys of, say,
10 to 14. About the four children of a
Cornish vicar who set out to raise a
hundred pounds to help a neighboring
friend and her father who, for financial
reasons, must leave the home their family
had lived in for generations. As i fl
nearly all books these days catering fP r
this age-group there is some romantic
interest. One statement risks rupturing
Biit i s h Commonwealth relations:
“Georgie emerged, scarlet in the face
from counting money as though she were
a New Zealander.”


For the comfort of that important little someone
See our Nursery Furniture Department!
Come first to Anthony Horderns’ for all your nursery furniture.
Come, because we place safety and comfort
above everything else. It s durable furniture too! Built for the rigors of family life.
Safety cot with gauze top and sides.
No worry about Baby falling out of this cot.
It has a half dropside and a lift-up top. Size
4ft. 3in. x 2ft. 3in. Priced at £lB/2/9. Fibre
mattress, £2/18/3. Innerspring, £7/4/3.
Inner fibre mattress, £4/7/3.
r
m
fi
m
m
m
m
m
M;
n
*
£
ifi-
Cot with drawers underneath, £l9/2/~,
One size only, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. Two ply woven
wire dropside. Light natural finish. Inner spring
mattress, £B/1/-, inner fibre mattress, £5/2/9. Fibre
mattress, £3/3/9.
Dowelling Play Pen .
Size is 4ft. x 3ft., fin. dowelling. Strongly made with
convenient hinges. (It folds so that you can store it
away neatly.) Priced at £3/7/-. Floor to fit, 36/9.
Order this Nursery Furniture by
calling M 2401. Ask for
T.O.P.S.
Do your shopping the easy way. Call T.O.P.S.
(Our telephone order service) and they will
do it for you.
For the Comfort and Safety of Your
Tiny Tots
Sturdy Prams and Strollers
Pram with cover No .. 139.
Lift out body to use in car as bassinet.
Well sprung, in Fawn, Green, Grey,
Burgundy ahd Pastel Blue. Priced at
£l9/6/3.
*
Commode chair.
Sturdy little chair with side lift tray. In
colours Blue, Cream or Pink. Priced at
£2/4/3.
Stork stroller No. 27.
Flick triggers to fold, handles to open.
Carrying Basket underneath. Flecked
canvas, Blue, Green or Burgundy.
Priced at £B/17/9.
HBB9
m
w
1
nmmi
m
ŵ
Nursery Furniture on the Fourth Floor. Yes, Plenty for Mail and ’Phone Orders. Mail Orders to Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 21, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3884
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings o opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
ASIA AND WORLD SECURITY
Asian politics, as they affect the security of the world,
daily drift a little further into the Red. And the
panaceas that are put forward, beside being makeshift,
are regional, and therefore detrimental to Australia.
This country in the not-so-distant future will reap,
with sorrow, what the Chifley-Evatt-Burton regime
sowed in the days when the Australian “Labor”
Government used frequently to say through its Prime
Minister that Nehru was the greatest man in the world,
and when it was fashionable to take sides with India
against South Africa’s right to deal with Indian
immigration, in the process cutting the ground from
under our feet in enforcing our own White Australia
policy.
At the same time “Labor” can’t be wholly blamed
for the position, for the Spender regime in foreign
affairs perpetuated much that was initiated by “Labor,”
especially the basic theory that the Commonwealth
was part of the South-East Asian zone, that the politics
of Asia were especially our politics, that we must bring
Asian students to Australian universities and indulge in
other benevolent activities under the Colombo (or
Spender) plan, to rehabilitate the Asiatic and raise his
standards of living, which can only be raised through
his own will and effort.
The results of this expensive busybodying are
already felt. The Asiatic student goes back to preach
the emptiness of our terrain and to infer race-hatreds
which do not exist. Asiatic representation in Australia
intended to be diplomatic is often wholly propagandist,
devoted to the undermining the White Australia policy.
And meantime Asia is being swept behind the Iron
Curtain in slices, the broom used by Moscow being
made of racial envy, nationalism and a desire for
independence from foreign domination which every
race yearns for but which, under Communist control,
it will never get.
Mr. Casey is the author of the latest scheme,
promulgated in an interview with a representative of
“U.S. News and World Report.” It partakes of the
faults of previous thinking and is grounded on the
same fallacy—that Governments control racial
tendencies, which they do not. He proposes two
treaties. The first “would emphasise the peaceful, non-
aggressive interest of our side, which I would hope all
the countries of South and South-East Asia Would join.”
The other, to which “possibly a lesser number of
countries would adhere, would, express the fixed deter-
mination of those countries to resist, with force of arms
if necessary, any further Communist expansion in the
named area.”
The first treaty, it seems, would amount only to
repeating in chorus a declaration, made over and over
again until it has become shopworn and subscribed
to just as fervently by aggressors as by others, one
which is the very heart of the theories behind U.N.0.:
it would express “the abhorrence of any intervention or
interference by any other country or agency with the
right of a country to live as it pleases and in accordance
with the principles of the United Nations Charter.”
Even, presumably, if it elects, under menace, to be
swallowed whole by aggressors in the guise of
liberators.
The second —of course it would have a port-
manteau name, Seato —would have “teeth in it”:
In this , treaty the Western Powers —including
Australia and New Zealand—could hope for _ a
response to begin with at least from non-Communlst
Indo-China, the Philippines and Thailand.
Mr. Casey “hopes” that India would not stand aloof
from any such arrangement, as the biggest South-East
Asian country. There was, he said, a “good deal of
unanimity of view between Mr. Nehru and ourselves on
an analysis of the problem, but the point on which Mr.
Nehru tended to differ from many of us is the means of
achieving it.” He is certain that India would “hit back
good and hard if her frontiers were insulted.”
The fact, of course, is that India’s view leans to
the belief that it can achieve a live-and-let-live plan
with Communism by friendly negotiation with Moscow
and Peking. India refused to fight to hold back the
Communist armies in Korea, though it sent a very
useful ambulance unit, and its activities in the Korean
affair in general were those rather of a neutral than of a
pledged member of U.N.O. And the nearer the war of
world Communism approaches to India, the less its
Government will be inclined to compromise itself.
ft knows that though India might become a nation
in some decades with sound and wise government and
education, it is now only a multilingual agglomeration
of races, to many of which national patriotism means
far less than religion and caste. It knows that in case of
attack, with its vast frontiers sweeping along the Com-
munist borderline, it would have no chance of tensing
its muscles for a blow, and it has had the example
l of how much the Western world can hope to do for it
if it finds itself suddenly involved in a world war with
Russia and China united. The Burma story is not
forgotten. With Oriental fatalism the Indians, who
can afford to lose nothing, since they live not on, but
below, the breadline, are not likely to court self-
destruction by challenging the right of two powerful
neighbors with all the resources in the world and popu-
lations totalling, with satellite East Europe, nearly
1000 million people, to impose systems on surround-
ing neighbors, political systems meaning little to the
ordinary Indian,
Moscow and its world satellites do not suffer from
the weaknesses and differences and hesitations of the
West. They have one policy—a policy of force aimed
at countries which are first disrupted by internal fifth-
columns until they are ripe for conquest. This policy is
not aimed at any region. In the ultimate it is aimed
at the whole world. It can be defeated only at its point
of origin and direction. And since the whole
argument of Communism is force backed by intrigue
and Red-anting, it can only be dealt with by a
sufficient force to warn it off altogether and by world
measures to root out the Red-ants.
Talk the Russians love. Treaties of amity between
their enemies they receive with cheers as providing the
seeds from which fresh misunderstandings and false
assumptions of security may grow. But arms and
determination they understand and respect. Much of
the money which is at present spent playing fairy-
godmother to other countries and other peoples could
more reasonably be put into building defence and
security. And if Australia wishes to give a lead it might,
in its own weakness, think primarily along those lines.
Field-Marshal Sir William Slim, who has as much know-
ledge of war and Asiatic war as any man living, was
reported as saying at Mt. Isa the other day that this
country is “only playing with national service,” presum-
ably by contrast with the United Kingdom and the
United States. This is quite true, though the Govern-
ment is doing the best that public opinion is likely to
let it do in the present atmosphere.
The sooner it begins to think in terms of world
reality, the sooner its foreign policies will have teeth in
them. No foreign policy which is not based on strength
can be effective. *
Constitutional Overhaul
It probably came as a surprise to most critics of the
Commonwealth Constitution to learn that two Nigerian
chiefs had recently come to Australia to study the work-
ing of Commonwealth-States relationships with a view
to applying the lessons to their own country, where a
Federal system is in process of birth. They did not
comment on the result of their studies, but provided
they kept their eyes and ears open during their visit it
may be presumed that in due course they will report
that they found our Constitution rather creaky in the
joints after half a century of wear and tear, and that
they gained the iippression that most people thought
the time had come to give it a complete overhaul. If
they are going to be thoroughly frank with their people
they will also have to report that most previous attempts
at revision have failed through the inability of party
politicians to approach the matter in a national spirit
and of Governments to persuade the people to agree
to changes submitted by referendum.
Revision of the Constitution has been under dis-
cussion for years. In his policy-speech in 1949 Mr.
Menzies spoke of calling a meeting of Premiers to
reconsider the problem of financial relations between
the Commonwealth and States. Five years later the
problem still requires reconsidering. In the Governor-
General’s speech at the opening of Parliament in
February, 1950, there was expressed an intention of
bringing in a bill to provide for an alteration to the
Constitution which would prevent a Government from
nationalising an industry without the consent of the
people by referendum. No such bill has ever been
introduced.
Two attempts have been made by the Menzies
Government to alter the Constitution in specific details.
One was the curious mathematical formula known as
the Constitutional Alteration (Avoidance of Double-
dissolution Deadlocks) Bill, 1950. This got itself lost
in the Senate and has not been seen since. The other
was the unsuccessful Anti-Red Referendum.
In his policy-speech last May the Prime Minister
turned again to the question of Constitutional reform.
He accepted as fact based on experience that an amend-
ment vigorously contested by the Opposition had little
chance of being approved by referendum, and he pro-
posed an all-party committee of both Houses “to review
the Constitution and to make recommendations for
amending it.”
Subjects which Mr. Menzies suggested might come
before the committee included the procedure for
creating a new State, relations between the Senate and
the House of Representatives, the treatment of sub-
versive activities, and the relative financial and trade
powers of the Commonwealth and the States.
At the time, the Opposition made no reply, but
last week at a meeting of the Federal A.L.P. executive
Dr. Evatt announced that “Labor” was willing to co-
operate with the Government, although it could not
accept any scheme “the object of which is merely to
gain temporary party advantage for the existing
Government.”
That is reasonable enough, though it comes
strangely from the man who yvas Attorney-General in
the Chifley Government when the system of Senate-
election was changed to proportional-representation
thereby ensuring the continuance of a “Labor” majority
after the next election —resulting, incidentally, in the
stultifying 16 months of deadlock which was only
resolved by the double-dissolution.
If the words of the two party-leaders mean
anything, then the coming session-of Parliament may
see a constructive effort to bring the Constitution more
into line with the requirements of 1954. Despite Dr.
Evatt’s reference to “temporary party advantage” it is
possible that the committee might agree to recommend
the postponement of the 1956, Senate election for one
year to bring it into line with the election for the
House of Representatives. In agreeing to this “Labor"
would be postponing its chance to regain control of the
Senate, but memories of how that state of affairs
boomeranged on the party in 1951 could well lead them
to concede the doubtful advantage.
But Senate-reform needs to go beyond the
temporary problem of separate elections. While pro-
portional-representation remains the method of election
it must continue to produce deadlocks or near-
deadlocks. However sound the system may be in
principle it doesn’t seem to work out sensibly in
practice, and Australia, with an electorate evenly
divided except when a very big question arises, is a
particularly bad field for it. Most Australians would
probably prefer a system which gave one side a clear-
cut majority, with a change of Government every few
years, to a condition of perpetual stalemate. Propor-
tional-representation was introduced by Parliament
and can be dispensed with in the same way. In scrap-
ping it there is no compulsion to go back to the old
system. The Constitution provides for elasticity in the
method of electing Senators, and the committee could
consider other methods before making its report.
Avoidance of deadlocks is one problem; the
resolving of them when they do occur is another.
Since the proposed joint committee cannot work with-
out the co-operation of the Opposition, it may be
useful here to recall what a “Labor” committee said of
this problem in 1951. This was that “it is in the best
interest of the nation that the principle of responsible
government should prevail. It follows that it thinks
there should be some qualification of the Senate’s
almost unqualified right of veto.”
“Labor’s” suggestion was that disputes should be
settled by a joint vote of the two Houses, and this is
a solution the proposed committee would no doubt give
serious consideration. '
Given goodwill, which has been sadly lacking in
inter-party relationships in the past, the joint com-
mittee could perform useful service, but the real task
of Constitutional reform requires a body more broadly
based —a full-scale Constitutional convention repre-
sentative of all parties and all Parliaments, State and
Federal, as well as delegates representing local-
government authorities and other organisations con-
cerned with Federal-State relationships. The joint
committee’s immediate task would be to see that tbe
Federal machinery doesn’t break down; the conven-
tion’s job would be to tackle the big overhaul.
The Founding Fathers intended the Common-
wealth Constitution to be a safeguard on the rights
of the States and the people. They did not mean it to
become a strait jacket, however much our generation
may appear to have qualified for one.
Liberals and Irish-Australians
From Lyle H. Moore, N.S.W. president of the Liberal
party:
Whether or not the N.S.W. State Parliamentary
Liberal party numbers in its ranks any Irish-Australians
I do not know. I do know, however, that “Finnigan”
(B. 7/7/’54) is utterly wrong in saying that Irish-
Australians are not wanted in the Liberal Party of
N.S.W.
I repeat that I don’t know about Irish-Australians
in bur State Parliamentary party —and for the best of
all possible reasons: the Liberal party does not concern
itself with the racial or religious antecedents of any
man. We are interested in his Liberal principles, his
personal calibre and his political ability.
Of equal truth, I don’t know how many Welsh-
Australians or Scottish-Australians are in the Liberal
ranks. I leave that study to the anthropologists, and
devoutly trust that everyone else will do so. lam
proud of the sturdy British ancestry of Australians,
irrespective of which particular corner of the British
Isles may have given any of us our origins.
I am delighted with the New Australians who are
flocking to the Liberal cause. I look forward to the
day when some of them will join us in Parliament.
Like all true Liberals, I detest sectarianism. And
I fancy that your correspondent, “Finnigan,” is a true
Liberal in this and other regards.
I wonder if “Finnigan” or his friends have
bothered to inquire about the true facilities of the
Liberal party, or whether they are merely unwitting
victims of subtle Labor propaganda? '
Accordingly, I invite him and all others who share
his doubts, to come along and find out for themselves.
We will be delighted to meet them, and to show them
good reasons why and how they should work in
partnership with us in the Liberal team.
I gladly take up “Finnigan’s” challenge. The
Liberal party very willingly “opens its ranks to the
fittest” (to use his own words). Let them come forward
now. We need them.
The Liberal party has no intention of remaining in
permanent opposition in New South Wales. We are
planning a great resurgence on the State level, and can
qse all available help. We intend to win the 1956 State
elections, and we are setting out now on that journey.


OPERATION CROSSCUT


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unhappy "Labor "
The past week was probably the un-
!iapplest “Labor” leaders have suffered
since early-1940, in the days when the
Hughes-Evans (Communist) group,
according to J. T. Beasley, controlled the
N. S. Wales “Labor” party, and the
“Daily News,” its official organ, was an-
nouncing that “the Red Fleet had been
ordered for instant action off Mur-
mansk,” where 200 Russian warplanes
were “searching for a British naval
squadron” which was supposed to be
cruising off the Russian coast to inter-
cept a German fleet loading war-supplies
at Murmansk from the friendly Russians.
The A.L.P. Federal Executive has just
met in Canberra, and it was an open
secret that it was a most unhappy family,
with the industrial-groupers trying hard to
repeat their victory in the N. S. Wales
annual conference and failing against
the combined forces of the A.W.U.-Ken-
nelly group —a curious mixture of career-
ists and outsize union-bosses who are not
going to have their .monopolies invaded
by a new type of industrial union com-
bination similar in conception to Com-
munist industrial unionism, but not linked
to Moscow. The development of such a
system would go hard with the A.W.U.
in some States.
The result of the position was a free-
for-all —Evatt-followers (if there were
many left by the end of the week) v.
Calwell-followers, Kennedy v. the rest.
It was an open secret that there were
loud protests against the manner in which
Dr. Evatt constructed his own election-
platform and at his continual failure to
answer requests for information or
action from the executive, which likes to
think it is, and for a time was, the ruling
junta of Australian “Labor,” and even,
before 1949, of the Commonwealth, Mr,
Chifley giving way to it and treating it
as his policy-manufactory.
The policy part of the programme, so
far as it was revealed, had a ragged
appearance, as if somebody running for
his life had flung scraps of paper at ran-
dom in the face of his pursuers. It was
decided to demand of the Government
that it set aside a proportion of the
receipts from uranium-sales for research
into the domestic and industrial possi-
bilities of atomic energy—a decision
which proved its complete isolation from
world realities.
It revived the old. Communist slogan
of “Ban Scrap-iron for Japan.” It called
on the Government to build a dock in
Western Australia for defence —it opposed
the building of one in Sydney just before
the last war on the ground that naval
defence was even then (in 1938) out-
moded, It was decided that it was time
the constitution of the party was brought
up-to-date, that “unnecessary verbiage”
should be eliminated, but that “no funda-
mental principles should be removed
from the platform.” If anybody can
point to a fundamental principle still
existing in the platform after reading the
policy-speech of the Federal leader at the
1954 elections he should be awarded the
Order of Lenin.
The executive was still anxious that
the official history of the party should
be written —the only ones that at present
exist have been written by the propa-
gandists of the Communist party.
Branches of the States were asked to
compile data and send it on. The co-
ordination of the Queensland account of
the history of industrial-groups with the
N. S. Wales account of the industrial-
groups should prove an absorbing task.
The one certainty that emerged from the
conference is that “Labor” has become
a sadly divided force full of sectionalism,
sectarianism and modified Communism.
It believes in nothing except that it should
be in power. It is kept together only by
the careerist ambitions of its political
leaders and by its fat union-bosses,
who are swiftly invading the ranks of the
big-businessmen. The symbol of power
in union-leadership is no longer the
bowyang but the forty-guinea suit, the
gold-pass, the fat cigar and the licence
to call brewers by their Christian-names.
With the shadow of the large Queens-
land general-secretary, Mr. Schmella,
hanging over them. Federal caucus-mem-
bers can scarcely look forward to the
coming session. * And the N. S. Wales
section, including its leader in the Federal
House and its other leader, Mr. Cahill,
has a bleak period ahead. Having of
yore dominated the executive and the
Triennial Conference in, major matters
for years, all it was able to retrieve from
the prizes which it used to win at junta
elections was a junior vice-presidency for
its State president. Mr. Calwell’s cohort
from Victoria did no better. The smaller
States have taken over largely because
the larger ones are so divided that their
forces can’t combine.
Semi-public Fight
One of the queerest competitions ever
conducted inside a Government depart-
ment is in full swing in Sydney, the con-
testants being Commissioner for Rail-
ways Winsor and the N. S. Wales Rail-
ways Appeals Board. The object of each
party is to prove that the other is the
more lenient towards railwaymen found
guilty of misdemeanors and breaches
of railway discipline.
In the opening rounds the commis-
sioner accused the board of reducing the
penalties in a large number of cases of
drunkenness and safe-working breaches.
The chairman and secretary of the board
came back with a denial and a counter-
charge that the commissioner had rein-
stated men after their dismissal had been
confirmed by the board,
Mr, Winsor was rather at a disadvan-
tage in last week’s developments, as he
was away in Queensland when the board
made public official files revealing a num-
ber of cases in which he had overruled
its decisions. These included, among
others, charges of stealing, embezzlement,
demanding a bribe, and being on duty
under the influence of liquor. Earlier
the commissioner had offered to release
files to support his own allegation, but
the day after his departure for Queens-
land Mr. Wetherell, Minister for Trans-
port, had said this could-not be done.
It is not clear whether Mr. Wetherell’s
function in the competition is that of
referee or contestant. Asked by Sydney
“Herald” to reconsider releasing the files
in view of similar action by the board,
he said he would not do this in the
absence of Mr. Win&»r and he did not
intend to worry the commissioner while
he was on holidays. As the commissioner
had originally volunteered the files one
would have, thought that this was a
“worry” he would have gladly accepted.
Another gentleman whose status in the
contest is rather uncertain is Dr. Lloyd
Ross, acting-secretary of the A.R.U.;
he seems to „be an interested onlooker
who would dearly like to join in.
Other interested spectators are the
general public who own the railways, pay
the wages of reinstated employees
irrespective of whose leniency restores
them to the payroll, and who have, over
the years, paid large sums to meet rail-
way deficits. They have been given
glimpses of the contest; they are now
entitled to see it played out in public.
Opposition-leader Treatt’s demand for
an open inquiry is one the Government
can hardly refuse if it wishes the public
to retain any faith at all in the adminis-
tration of the railways, which are decrepit,
shockingly unreliable and frequently
dangerous. ,
British Red-letter Day
This month is a red-letter occasion for
the English. After 15 years the gallant
little country has come off rations. There
is scarcely a housewife under 35 in Eng-
land who remembers what it was to buy
food without coupons, though year by
year, inch by inch, the various kinds of
food have been removed from the list.
And while there is a nostalgic feeling
among many who liked the gregarious
habits that developed in the queue, there
was no doubt about the reaction early in
the month when meat “came off,” and it
was possible for the butchers to buy com-
petitively. The owners of prime bodies
had almost as good a time as the cartoon-
ists, who were riotous in devising quips
to prove to the British athlete that,
with his natural food, the roast beef of
old England, returned tq him, he must
no longer be beaten at sports by mere
foreigners. Beef went to nearly £9
sterling a hundred in the wholesale
market.
Those with the nation’s health and
future in their hands will be __ glad to see
the end of the conditions which have pre-
vailed in some degree—and rigidly for
more than half the time—for 15 years.
The effect on the nation’s physique has
not been good even if it has enabled the
world to have a demonstration of
Britons’ sense of fairplay towards each
other, as well as towards the civilisation,
of a convention which made it possible for
them to share and share alike with a
minimum of blackmarkets and a maxi-
mum of good-humor. It would be diffi-
cult to see the ruling classes of Russia
submitting to a two-ounces-a-week bacon-
ration so that everybody might, have his
bite.
The food-surveys show the trends and
explain why British National Servicemen
sent to Korea—and fighting there through
the bitter winter without a grumble —
called for more potatoes in place of the
lavish meat-ration served out to them
on the American scale, they having been
brought up on potatoes.
At the end of rationing Britons were
eating 85 per cent, of the pre-war average
of meat, 78 per cent, of poultry, game and
fish, butter a little over half the pre-war
level of consumption, though other oils
and fats nearly made up for its absence.
But the substitutes are clearly advertised
—dairy products (mainly cheese) 137 per
cent., potatoes 122 per cent., pulses and
nuts 112 per cent., and grain about the
same.
Even if the calory-value of this is
about the same as before the war (about
3110, which must be among the highest
in the European world), there is some-
thing about meat and about being able to
eat with gusto and without restraint that
goes to make a people strong and lusty.
Britons fought the Napoleonic wars on
a ration generally much less than the
modern ration, but they fought it against
peoples worse off than themselves. The
addition of meat and plenty of fats to the
general table of the Englishman has
advertised itself in his increasing stature
and brawn. Most Englishmen have to
stoop to enter the average doorway of
a Tudor Elizabethan house.
Australians, while sharing in pride of,
race at the sturdy courage with which
Britain has met its difficulties, will also
have self-interested cause to rejoice at the
new freedom to buy food which is pro-
duced here..
Private Eyes
For a long time it has seemed that in
the field of private-detective work the
sleuths of Ernie O’Dea’s Shop Assistants’
Union have been in a class of their own ;
no student of crime fiction could fail to
admire the daring and resource they
show in bringing to justice some of the
many criminals who seem to infest
Sydney suburbs. Working mainly in the
evenings, or on Saturday afternoon or
Sunday, they have brought to book many
transgressors —shady characters who
have sold a pound of butter half an
hdtur after closing-time or have furtively
passed a packet of tea out the back-
door when the front-door was closed in
accordance with the law. Press reports
of these coups are scant and sketchy,
but no doubt the annals of the Shop
Assistants’ Union contain hundreds of
stories every bit as thrilling as any in
the realm of fiction./
But these sleuths haven’t got it all on
their own. Long after O’Dea’s “private
eyes” are in their warm beds there are
others abroad, equally vigilant of the
public welfare and every bit as deter-
mined to demonstrate to malefactors that
crime does not pay. Last week two in-
stances found their way into the papers.
In one case an inspector of the N.S.W.
Department of Labor and Industry went
into premises in a distant suburb at ten-
past-one in the morning and caught a
gang of seven lawbreakers single-handed.
They were making bread before the legal
starting-hour. The ringleader was fined
£2O and his accomplices each £5. It is to
be hoped the man who brought the gang
to justice at least received overtime for
his night’s work.
The other case was somewhat similar.
Albert Thompson, secretary of the Milk
and Ice Carters’ Union, was the hero of
the story. Braving the cold night air he
kept a lonely vigil in the wilds of Banks-
town and apprehended three miscreants
who were delivering milk at 2.17 a.m.
when they knew full well that it was
illegal to begin the run before 3 o’clock.
The leader of the gang, who was wear-
ing pyjamas at the time of the crime,
was fined £l5; his assistants (both in
day attire) stopped a fiver each. Half
the fines went to Thompson’s union as
a reward for his public spirit, so it is to
be hoped the union will stand by him if
the Union Secretaries’ Association takes
action against him for working outside
the statutory hours.
Petrov Inquiry
Press-secretary in the box:
Even the sober, unemotional conduct of the
Royal Commission on Espionage could not rob
it of an atmosphere of excitement during last
week, the leading witness being Dr. Evatt’s
former Press-secretary—services terminated June
4 —Mr. Fergan O’Sullivan, a young man origin-
ally with the A.B.C. in London and then with
the “S. M. Herald” in Sydney until, on the
advice of his father, “a personal friend” of
Dr. Evatt, he joined the Leader of the Opposi-
tion’s staff in 1953.
After having first refused to say in the witness-
box whether he was the author of one of the
documents prepared for Soviet agents known
as Document H, O’Sullivan decided, on the
advice of his solicitor, to go into the witness-
box and tell what he knew.
Petrov gave evidence that he had been first
told about O’Sullivan in 1951 by the Pass
representative, Pakhamov, who said that accord-
ing to his “personal record” and the words
of Rex Chiplin ... at which point he , was
interrupted by Chiplin, a “Tribune” correspond-
ent, who rose from his seat in the Press benches
and shouted “Liar —he’s lying.” He was re-
moved from court by the police.
Petrov continued that, according to Chiplin’s
word, O’Sullivan was a “progressive”—i.e. loyal
to the Communist cause. He said that a cable
from Moscow had said “Zemlyak” (meaning
fellow-countryman, but a word applied to all
Communists outside Russia), which was O’Sulli-
van’s code-name, is “of interest and must be
studied.” He said he first saw Document H
when Pakhamov brought it to the Embassy in
1952, saying he bad received it from O’Sullivan.
A cable was sent to Moscow reporting receipt
of the document, and a film of it was sent in
the diplomatic bag. ’ Petrov said he first met
O’Sullivan at an Embassy reception and later
in Sydney twice. They went in the plane from
Canberra together in July, 1953, and at Mascot
they had a cup of coffee together.
O’Sullivan had a Commonwealth car to meet
him at Mascot, and they went to the city
together: first to O’Sullivan’s house, and then
to the railway-station, whence Petrov went alone
to the Russian social club. Next day they
lunched together, and O’Sullivan gave him his
Canberra telephone-number, but he did not
ring up and he didn’t ask him to compile a
survey of political or military information. He
did not follow an instruction to ask O’Sullivan
to compile a survey concerning economic,
political and military penetration of Australia
by the United States, but he passed on to
Kislytsin and Antonov, the new Tass man, an
instruction in which Moscow said that it con-
sidered that “basic work in the study of Par-
liamentary correspondents and members of
Parliament should be conducted by Antonov.”
He agreed that the enclosure to this letter
named a large number of Press correspondents
serving in the Canberra Press Gallery. Some of
the information about those individuals had
been supplied by O’Sullivan to Pakhamov. In-
cluded in the information said to be supplied
by him was some about two men supposed to
be associated with counter-intelligence. Refer-
ence was made in the letter to O’Sullivan hold-
ing Labor views, which was “in no way to
his discredit.” He said that Document H was
the only fruit of Soviet contacts with O’Sullivan.
He had not cultivated him further because he
had come to the conclusion that he was “unfruit-
ful soil.”
O’Sullivan said he had worked in Canberra
for two years on and off in the Parliamentary
gallery and had been made secretary of the
gallery later. He said that Pakhamov had
asked for personal details of members of the
gallery to help him in getting the Russian point
of view put in the Australian papers, particularly
after the referendum on the banning of the
Communist party. He had accordingly written
Document H to help Australian-Russian rela-
tionships. He said that when he gave informa-
tion about the fact that a man was unfaithful to
his wife and whether a man was a drinker or
talkative after drink he had no particular ideas
what Pakhamov wanted, but believed he “wanted
the information for a background story, and
he did not think it would be used to bring
pressure on persons.” He admitted that- a lot
of the information he had written about col-
leagues was wrong—merely “gallery-gossip.”
He told Pakhamov about the alleged connec-
tion of two men with counter-intelligence because
Pakhamov wished to carry on an undercover
campaign, and it would be useless for him
to approach such men. He didn’t think there
was anything remarkable about saying to the
agent of a foreign Power that a man was
believed to be a security agent. He said he
had no specific memory of writing Document
H, but did not deny writing it. He declared
that he didn’t know that Pakhamov intended
to send the information to Russia. He said
he was a “radical” but not a Communist, and
asked by Mr. Justice Owen why he was ready
to help to get pro-Communist stuff into the
papers, he answered: “To assist international
relations generally.” He admitted contacts with
Rupert Lockwood while Dr. Evatt’s Press sec-
retary. He regarded him as dangerous but could
not turn his back on people. On one occasion
he admitted travelling past two hotels to drink
at the Kingston Hotel, where he met Lockwood
accidentally.
O’Sullivan was shown extracts from Document
J and asked whether he realised that “whoever
wrote Document J gives you as the informant
in matters set out in the extracts.” O’Sullivan
said “Yes, but it is wrong.”
Mr. Justice Owen then remarked: “It is dis-
turbing to find in this document that the writer
claims to have received information from two
persons who are in the secretariat of a man
who hold? a high position in public life. Mr.
Windeyer asked the witness whether he saw
the name of a man whose photograph was said
to be on the Security files—yet a third member
of the. secretariat of the Leader of the Opposi-
tion.” The answer was “Yes.” O’Sullivan
swore that he did not know what a Mr.
Grundeman, a member of Dr. Evatt’s secretariat,
would know of matters in Document J—the
“farrago of facts, filth and falsity,” so-called
by Mr. Windeyer, and allegedly written by
Lockwood. He might have talked with Lock-
wood in connection with the Communist-ban
referendum about whether certain members
were subscribers to A.L.P. funds, but he didn’t
give information on those matters which were
apparently personally concerned with Dr. Evatt.
Mr. Justice Owen said: “We think it right
that we should say that we do not find any-
thing in this document that reflects on Dr.
Evatt. The document quotes as sources for
various matters, some of which are very confi-
dential, three members of the secretariat of the
Leader of the Opposition. Included in that
three is O’Sullivan.”
On the following day Dr. Evatt sent a long
telegram to the commission saying that he had
“made inquiries of all members of my present
staff and each one of them has unequivocally
denied having given at any time any such
confidential information to the author of
Document J or to any other person.” He
protested “as a matter of bounden duty” at
the making of “defamatory and injurious impu-
tations reflecting upon members of my staff
without any evidentiary support and upon the
assumption that events and sources said to be
o Continued on next page)


contained in Document J are truly and accur-
ately stated by the author thereof, thus produc-
ing injury to individuals, immediate and irre-
lemarl[ the
day tothe effect that nothing had been
f OU nd in the document to reflect on Dr. Evatt,
and his references to the disturbance felt by
the commissioners at the mention of Dr. Evatt s
staff. His Honor added that, as already stated,
the inquiry could not be conducted without the
mention from time to time of persons who had
?ou°ld tav* tS opportunity
of refuting the statement that they provided
information for Document J.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Maxwell Report on liquor is “still
under consideration,” according to Cahill.
Liquor is one subject on which the Cahills
cannot be accused of making up their
minds too hurriedly. They “considered”
for many months before setting-up the
commission.
• •
When,* if ever, liquor-reform comes
before the N. S. Wales Parliament Liberal
members will vote on non-party lines.
The party expects proposals for single-
bottle licences, extension of liquor-hours
in restaurants and additional duo licences
to come under discussion. However, the
decision apparently won’t apply if the
Government makes a direct attempt to
extend hotel closing-hours; in that case
the Liberals will press for a referendum.
Why? A party should know its own mind
on a matter like this without passing the
buck to the general public. Alternatively,
why not make closing-hours a non-party
matter as with the other items of liquor-
law reform?
• •
Cost-of-living figures for the June
quarter, released by the Commonwealth
Statistician last week, showed that the
retail-price index had fallen slightly in
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Hobart
and had risen slightly in Adelaide, appre-
ciably in Perth. This last was due almost
entirely to a jump in rents, following the
dropping of rent-control at the beginning
of the quarter.
• •
Had quarterly adjustments of the basic
wage still been in force these changes
would have meant the following altera-
tions :
Sydney .. .. Down 2s.
Melbourne .. Down Is.
Brisbane .. Down 2s.
Hobart .. .. Down 4s.
Adelaide. .. No change.
Perth .. .. Up 13s.
6 capitals .. Down Is.
These figures justify claims that
stability in living-costs has been achieved
in five States. Westralian figures, for the
reason given, are out of step with the
general tendency, but nine months ago,
for similar reasons, the Hobart index
rose steeply. It has since dropped, and
the Perth index will no doubt also flatten
out in the next quarter or so.
Cain’s Budget gets a windfall of
£150,000 from the drop in Victoria. This
is because union pressure caused his Gov-
ernment to legislate for the continuation
of quarterly adjustments on wages sub-
ject to Victorian awards. At the time the
tendency was still upward, but this is
the second drop in succession. How long
will it be before the Trades Hall asks
him to drop the adjustments?
• •
If the rolling-strikes continue to hold-
up Sydney buses there’ll soon be no buses
rolling at all.
• •
The official announcement of the
move to streamline the work of Federal
Cabinet spoke of setting-up two major
Cabinet committees, but the listing of
the personnel shows the new committees
to comprise the upper and lower halves
of the Cabinet seniority table. Major
and minor seems more like it,
• e
Pat Kennelly’s reign as Federal secre-
tary of the A.L.P. was ended by the vote
of the executive, but W. R. Colbourne,
the nominee of his chief opponents, didn’t ■
get the post. Instead it went to Queens-
lander J. Schmella, who will carry on as
acting-secretary until the biennial con-
ference in January, when the job will
again come up for review. New president
is E. E. Reece, Tasmanian Minister for
Lands; Colbourne and Chamberlain
(W.A.) are the vice-presidents. In general
the voting may be considered as a slap
in the eye for the industrial-groups.
• e
R. W. Askin, M.L.A. for Collaroy, is
the new deputy-leader of the Liberal
party in the N. S. Wales Parliament.
Evatt wants to see the referendum
playing a bigger part in Australian politi-
cal life, instead of being used only for
proposed alterations in the Constitution.
He told the A.L.P. executive:
There is no reason why, under reasonable
safeguards, it should not be employed from
time to time to determine those vital ques-
tions of political policy which fairly require
specific decisions of the electorate instead
of being mixed up with the dozens of issues
always involved in general elections.
Wasn’t there a suggestion made in. 1947
that the Chifley Government of which the
Doc. was deputy-leader should submit
bank-nationalisation to a referendum?
And wasn’t the suggestion firmly rejected
by the “Labor” Government?
• •
Methodist parson Alan Walker com-
plains that the White Australia policy is
not Christian; he advocates a quota-
system. Assuming his criticism is sound,
how in the name of Wesley does he
argue that the quota-system is Christian?
• •
A.L.P. “News Review,” speaking of the
defeated “Labor” candidate for Robert-
son (N.S.W.): “Mr. Geraghty, because
LITTLE BOY LOST
of the high proportion of Communist-
party preferences which went to the
Liberal candidate, failed by a narVow
margin to take the seat.” High propor-
tion! Before the distribution of prefer-
ences in Robertson the Liberal candidate,
Oean, was leading Geraghty by 1020, and
the Communist Tapp had 1075 votes.
To win the seat “Labor” had to receive
95 per cent, of Tapp’s preferences ; it got
84 per cent, and lost by 283 votes. For
a party which claims to be the implacable
enemy of Communism, 84 per cent,
seems a fair enough bonus, but appar-
ently, despite its disavowals, “Labor”
counts on getting all the Commo prefs.
\ • •
Aneurin Bevan wants to know who
was “the blundering ass who advised
Princess Margaret to visit Germany.”
This will probably be divulged in due
course. Perhaps it was the same bloke
who advised Bevan and Attlee to visit
Peking.
• . •
Although the Victorian Assembly is
not 'due to die from natural causes until
December, 1955, all parties have been
getting in early with their endorsement
of candidates. It’s no idle precaution ;
there’s every likelihood of an appeal to
the country well before the due date,
quite possibly within the next few months.
The issue most likely to bring this about
is price-control. When Parliament meets
again Cain intends to bring in a bill to
extend controls until the end of next year.
All three Opposition parties have spoken
against price-control, and if they sti<ck t
this attitude the measure will be defeated
in the Legislative Council. Hollway s two
M.L.C.s will be the deciding factor.
If an election does result it will be
the first under the two-for-one redistri-
bution, and the outcome will be very
open. Cain’s landslide victory in Decem-
ber, 1952, came at a time when the
Federal Government’s stocks were at
their lowest level and the Victorian anti-
“ Labor” forces hopelessly divided. The
position today is much different. Victoria
gave the Menzies Government a boost at
the Federal election, and Cain’s Parlia-
mentary followers are anything but a
happy band of brothers.
• •
On Saturday Lord Mayor P. D. (Two-
jobs) Hills won the “Labor” selection bal-
lot for the Phillip seat in the N. S. Wales
Assembly. The by-election date is
August 14.
• •
“M’boro”: “Labor’s” dictum of “one
man, one job” has been obeyed by Bris-
bane City Council alderman W. C.
Coutts, who held the £l5OO-a-year coun-
cil post of chairman of the Transport and
Electricity Committee and won the
Federal seat of Griffith by a narrow
margin. Queensland A.L.P. executive
asked him to throw one job in and
Coutts replied “Willingly,” and tossed-in
his chairmanship.
• ft
Sydney “Tribune,” July 7, 1954:
While Rex Chiplin is enjoying himself at
the Petrov Royal Commission, we’re invit-
ing some well-known people to write a
column. . .
“S. M. Herald,” July 15, 1954, reporting
the Petrov Commission:
Petrov added: Pakhomov said that
O’Sullivan, according to his “personal
record” and the words of Rex Chiplin. . .
Chiplin, who is employed by the Sydney
“Tribune,” jumped up from one of the
Press benches, where he had been sitting,
and shouted: “Liar. He’s lying.”
Mr. Justice Owen: Sit down.
Chiplin: He is lying and I demand a
right to be heard here.
Mr. Justice Owen: Take that man out of
court.
An attendant led Chiplin out of court.
As he approached the door Chiplin turned
back towards Petrov and shouted “Liar.”
Enjoyment, apparently, can take many
forms.
• •
Australia’s first full-scale plant for the
treatment of uranjum ore will be opened
at Rum Jungle in September. Output is
to be double that originally planned, but
despite that production will start several
months ahead of schedule. The Prime
Minister will be official opener.
• e
The Federal A.L.P. is asking State
branches to obtain information for in-
clusion in an official history of the party.
That way they’ll get a very stodgy
volume. Why not go to the men who
could give them the inside history?
Jack Lang would probably be only too
happy to contribute a few chapters; so
would Jock Garden.
• •
“X.S.”: Reported that the Victorian
Government’s share in the gambling
frenzy that has struck Melbourne since
Tatt’s. opened will be £30,000 a week, or
£1,600,000 a year, all of which is to be
earmarked for hospitals. Bernard Shaw
said “Gambling promises the poor what
property performs for the rich: that is
why the bishops dare not denounce it
fundamentally.” This doesn’t apply in
Melbourne. The bishops are ropeable
about it.
• •
“Melbn”: At this time of the year it
is not unusual for university undergradu-
ates on hiking expeditions to get them-
selves frozen, or near-frozen, in the Vic-
torian Alps, but this is the first time that
deaths from cold have been reported in
the city. During the deep-freeze which
recently blanketed the whole State two
old men were found frozen to death near
the Maribyrnong River at Footscray.
They were Dudley Flats tip-dwellers.
The difficulty with tip-dwellers is to wean
them from their tips—they seem to love
them so much —but no doubt the incident
will be reported in Moscow as fresh
evidence of the breakdown of the
economy of Australia.
• •
With their customary modesty the
wharfies have kept the claims of their
new log down to the bare minimum com-
patible with elegant living. They in-
clude: :
Ordinary rate, £1 an hour. (Present rate
Bs. lOd.)
Weekend work, £3 an hour.
Attendance money —4 hours’ pay.
Four weeks’ annual leave plus 11 paid public
holidays.
Meal allowance, 12s. 6d.
A batch of etceteras such as overalls,
hooks and gloves.
Justification advanced for the claims is
that they are based on “what might be
the pay-levels in industry generally in
three to five years’ time.”
• •
First steps towards a higher retiring
age have been taken by the N. S. Wales
Transport Department. Subject to an
employee being physically fit he may
continue in employment until the age of
70, provided the head of his branch certi-
fies that the retention of his services is
in the public interest, that he is competent
and his annual earnings do not exceed
£1390. An emplpyee is still entitled to
retire voluntarily at 60.
• •
At last year’s GATT conference Aus-
tralia asked for a complete review of the
whole show at the next meeting, which
is now only a few months off. The
Prime Minister said last week that the
Government intends to review its whole
trade policy with regard to GATT, the
Ottawa Agreement and Empire Prefer:
ence, and will get on with the task right
away.
• •
The N. S. Wales Electricity Commis-
sion had no sooner finished reminiscing
on the 50th anniversary of the establish-
ment of an electricity-supply in Sydney
when a 50,000 kw. generator at Pyrmont
and another at Bunnerong broke down,
thereby causing reminiscences of a much
more recent period when blackouts were
the order of the day and night.
• •
South Australian delegates to the
A.L.P. executive meeting urged a return
to a clear-cut socialisation platform on
the grounds that the watered-down inter-
pretation of 1953 had taken the crusad-
ing element out of “Labor” policy. The
subject is to come up again at the biennial
conference in Hobart next January.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
THERE are disquieting reports from
Mexico of ,a Miss Bette Ford turn-
ing her hand to bullfighting. How will
the toreadors’ union react to the joining
of its ranks by this enterprising young
lady? Other trades will, perhaps, be
startled by an influx of matadors, pica-
dors and the like, eschewing their aniient
profession on grounds that it’s now too
effeminate. The fury of Mr. Ernest
Hemingway is something one fears to
contemplate: for, with one dainty sword-
stroke. Miss Ford has that
swashbuckling in Spain, the stock-in-
trade of his toughest novels. Some sedu-
* au au u jui ■,
Irfee Te eUn, f.,hl d ’ S
r. .. .... 1 ;i m nC | W 11
L : Car ®cn-Mark ll.’--
❖ ❖ ♦> ■
ICT , „ TT . ' „ ,
Ke][lick : Hirsute growffi cannot be
started at will in the Silent Service ; cap-
tain’s permission must be obtained. This
is usually granted, always with the stipu-
lation that the face-fungus remains on for
at least three months. Permission must
also be obtained to “shave off,” and this
is when the fun starts. Our northern
cruise was cut short, and a hurried return
to Sydney was ordered. Numerous re-
quests to recommence shaving were re-
fused en bloc. One matelot paraded with
the evidence that he had tripped and
landed in a tin of red lead. He didn’t
want to face his wife looking like a
cross between a Red Indian and a straw
broom! But the daddy of the lot was
the bloke who went ashore in Brisbane
on the way down and “Someone shaved
one side off while I was full, sir.” Per-
mission granted.
♦♦+
“Bob”: A research team in Hertford-
shire (Eng.) has produced a “Dislocation
model for the study of boundary
phenomena and deformation in metals.”
No smithy or garage-workshop
ought to be without one of these.
» ♦♦♦
“Scarb”: In my job-seeking
days we regarded the men who sat
at the desks with awe and rever-
ence. The manager of a Perth
firm had not Realised the order had
changed—though he does now.
When interviewing the sole answer
to his advertisement for an “intel-
ligent boy, just left school pre-
ferred,” he asked the gangling
youth the stock-in-trade ques-
tion, “Which is the heavier, a
pound of feathers or a pound of
gold?” “Feathers,” replied the lad.
“That’s impossible,” the boss tartly replied,
“they are of equal weight.” “That’s
where* you and a lot of other people
who think you know everything are
wrong,” declared the fifteen-year-old. “If
you remember what was taught at school,
you’d know that a pound of feathers
is weighed in avoirdupois, sixteen ounces,
each 437.5 grains, equalling one pound.
Troy weight is used for gold, and though
an ounce is heavier by 42.5 grains than
an ounce avoirdupois, only twelve are
needed to make a pound. So the pound
of feathers is heavier by 2.834 ounces,
and you can keep your job. I’ll look for
one where the boss doesn’t ask such silly
questions.”
❖ ❖ *!♦
“Viper”: I’d thought the ruthless
dominance of the gentle sex was nowhere
exemplified with more gruesome force
than in this little vignette of natural lore,
cited by Mr. Aldous Huxley: “The lady
praying-mantis, impatient with connubial
pleasure, occasionally eats her spouse
alive, whilst actually engaged in the con-
summation of their lowly idyll.” How-
ever, I discover from Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” that this arbitrary technique
is not altogether confined to the insects.
The headline “First Husband Purged”
suggests that impatient Russian wives
may disencumber themselves with no
more than a sharp set of teeth and a
bottle of castor-oil.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Seppy”: “Miss Alma” (B. 7/7/’54)
is not the only one to be taken for a sis-
“Smile!”
ter-of-the-night A cobber kept his lass
waiting on a Sydney city comer for over
an hour. Undeterred by her cool recep-
tion he proceeded gaily with the outing
as planned. Came interval at the flicks,
no chatter from the girl, and he was
inclined to tick her off for sulking. She
was sulking, but his lateness was only
part of the reason. During her vigil a
hostile skirt had bowled up and ordered:
“Move along, sister. This is my beat.”
...
“Emjai”; Heth’s bathroom-page (B.
30/6/’54) recalls my hotel days. Most
“commercials” and other regulars made
it snappy, under the unwritten law that
bathroom-shaving was taboo and a pre-
“Who left this radiator on?”
breakfast hot-soak a crime. Running
late one morning I observed that the
queue had given it away. A dame, vainly
striving for dignity, hurried out, I nipped
in. The bath held plenty of steaming
water. I pulled the plug, had my cold
shower, and breezed into the breakfast-
room. The English lady, in pince-nez
and recaptured dignity, plus cold rage,
marched in under the glare of frustrated
ablutionists. I soon tumbled that it was
I she was talking at when she let go from
the adjacent table: “It passes my com-
prehension how the managements of
these frightful Australian hotels tolerate
the conduct of these boorish fellows
who have the impertinence to steal a
lady’s bathwater when she has to run out
for her bath-salts.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“An Chuidh”: While Kelso Abbey
may have been founded and the building
begun in the reign of Alexander I (B.
cover, 30/6/’54), as it was completed
in the reign of David I and he was its
greatest patron, he is generally credited
with being its builder. In addition, during
the 17 years’ reign of Alexander, David
was ruler of Lothian as Earl of Cambria,
and would have had the new Abbey under
his eye from the first. David was one of
Scotland’s greatest patriots; in addition
to founding the most important religious
establishments of the country, he was
the real founder of the Convention of
Royal Burghs of Scotland, still extant
and the oldest democratic institution in
the world.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Melbn”: Another bit of Melbourne’s
“golden acre” is going under the hammer
—the south-east comer of Collins-street
and Swanston-street, bought in error for
£4O at Melbourne’s first land-sale,
Thomas Black, a medico, recognised the
auctioneer, gave him a friendly nod and
found himself the owner of a parcel of
Victorian soil now worth well over half
a million. A great-granddaughter, Miss
Campbell-Hogg, fives in Toorak.
❖ ❖ ❖
“K.A.”: A publishing company in
Canada has been fined just on £5OO for
printing a crime comic featuring ghouls
and zombies —not real people. If the
appeal is lost a new industry could open,
smuggling literature across the U.S.
border. But even Uncle Sam seems to
be rebelling. I have a series of adven-
tures of one Millie the Model, consist-
ing mainly of catty cross-chat, cheap
wisecracks, curvaceous shots and mild
flirtations ; but marked “Conforms to the
A-G.P. teenage code of approved read-
ing.” It is to be hoped that insistence on
“real people” does not go too far; some
legal eagle might ban Micky Molise and/
Donald Duck —probably the only comi-
cal characters in the whole range of
“comics.”
❖ ❖
“Nakh”: The late-lamented League of
Nations did at least one good thing—it
gave its approval to a really efficient rat-
poison, which I have applied with great
success to the rodents of Melbourne. It
looks as if the Port Phillip penguins will
be able to thank the United Nations for
an even more signal service. At a 30-
Power U.N. convention in London it
was agreed to prohibit ships from dis-
charging oil at sea unless they are more
than 50 miles from the coast. Good news
for the Port Phillip penguins, who are
washed up on the bayside beaches in
dozens, smothered in oil.
❖ *X* ♦♦♦
“Pip Tok”: Perth’s oldest theatre, the
Theatre Royal, has been sold for a hefty
price. Started in 1896 beside a then-
popular shooting - gallery, with the
financial assistance of John Forrest’s
brother Alexander, it was then, with the
adjacent Hotel Metropole, the biggest
building in Perth barring the Town Hall.
For the past 30-odd years it has shown
flicks. Will still do.
❖ ❖ *X*
“J.J.”: Drew as my neighbor at the
performance of the German plastic
woman on exhibition in a Sydney theatre-
annexe the aftermath of a night-long
party. After ogling the flashing fights
highlighting portions of the female
anatomy and listening to the accompany-
ing commentary, my alcoholic companion
muttered “Didn’t come to see the
usherette. When’s the main feature
start?” V-
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.G.S.”: Up before the Beak in the
Perth police-court on a charge of steal-
ing a radio, accused put up the old
perennial, “I musta been drunk”; and
added, “Proper drunk, or I would never
have carried the thing up that damn’
lane.” Magistrate quite agreed—lane in
question being a right-of-way at the rear
of the police-barracks. Three months.
*I« ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: Why the trend in modem
houses to almost complete walls of glass?
All right in winter, but in summer they
need to be covered with expensive blinds
to prevent the occupants slowly cooking
to death. Could be that architects derive
their inspiration from Europe, where every
beam of capricious sunshine must be
wooed into the houses. But these modi-
fied greenhouse-types now so often seen
seem ridiculous here. One such has a
few wooden slats poised over its floor-to-
ceiling windows; the technical definition
of these is “Overhanging louvres which
shield the windows from the midday sun
while keeping air in circulation and so
preventing hot pockets of air collecting
against the glass.” They may prevent
“hot pockets of air,” but how about ho*
pockets of gusty northerlies?
THE IRRATIONAL PUBLIC
“Sydney is to have no more ‘standee’ buses,
as ‘experience has shown that they were not
popular with the public’l”
The public s made up of a contrary lot
of cusses:
Who’d have thought they’d have objected
to standee-buses ?
Everyone likes to sit down., but on the
other hand
Everyone knows that in the long run he’ll
have to stand.
This applies especially to the short-run,
too.
When! you must admit it’s not a difficult
thing to do.
Besides, it’s plain to everyone versed in
public affairs
That the rules of the transport game
are the same as for Musical Chairs,
Where you have to stand up if you’re not
pretty quick on your feet.
Even Railway Commissioner Winsor
can’t be too sure of his seat,
Since one reads in the papers, which
sometimes know what’s what,
That the Winsor-chair is becoming known
departmentally as the “hqt-squat.”
So the only objection a lot of suburban
bods and sods
Can have to standee-buses is that they
want a shade better odds;
A peculiar state of affairs when you con-
sider the same cliques and coteries
Take almost incalculable chances every
week in the Government-lotteries,
Which always seem to be won by
strangers who don’t mind cutting
capers
And demonstratively hugging husbands
or fellow-workers in the afternoon-
papers.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


THE teacher at our State school
started teaching the children tonic
sol-fa by practical demonstration; the
kids came home and told their parents
that teacher was a wonderful singer.
Subsequently at a jolly party, at which
the squire of the parish, his lady and all
the leading lights of the village society
were present, he was pestered to sing;
after showing some reluctance he con-
sented. He sang “Happy Jack, the Hang-
man,” and has never been asked to a
party since.' —“Spokeshave.”
♦♦♦
“Chevroford”: A posh car pulled up
at a well-kept farm on Phillip Island; a
well-nourished gentleman, two fur-
coated ladies and a couple of children
“ Please , Herr Schnapper , this is not a competition !”
got out, spread themselves over the home
paddock and, having collected half-a-
dozen basketfuls of mushrooms, got back
ini o the car and drove off. The farmer
watched them out of sight from his
veranda without comment, went into his
garage, got into his posh car and drove
to an address in Toorak which he had
obtained in the course of a friendly
chat with one of the children. When the
owner of the first car got home he met
the farmer emerging from his front
entrance with his arms full of camellias
and roses. “Hell and blazes,” he
wailed. “What the devil are you doing,
taking my plants?” “Well,” said the
farmer, “you took- my mushrooms.”
“But those were prize blooms I was
growing for the Rose Show,” snorted tne
man from Toorak. “Those,” said the
farmer, “were prize mushrooms you took
that I was going to eat for my breakfast.”
* ❖ *
“G.”: The lady with the beer-bottled
head mentioned by “Medic” (B. 7/7/’54)
could be sister to the damsel I en-
countered on a Pitt-street tram. Both
she and escort were well under; a dif-
ference of opinion arising, the lady
abused the boy-friend from Market-
street to Eddy-avenue, battering his head
the while with the heel of her shoe. At
this point he told her in a few short
words where to go and what to do when
she got there, and blew through. There-
after the lady slumbered on the seat until
in Redfern the trammie summoned a
cop, who asked to see her ticket. The
fair one simpered and gave him her most
winning smile. “Oh,” she said, “my
gentleman friend took it when he got off
at Eddy-avenue.”
*t* ♦>
“Sebak”: To wander past Sydney’s
fish-markets in the morning, when a
hundred fishmongers are loading their
purchases, is to doubt the calculations of
those who established the site of the
Tower of Babel as somewhere in the
East. Anyway, that’s how it always
seemed to me —until yesterday, when I
had a look inside the building. Now
I’m sure there was a drastic mistake.
The first thing I noticed was a huge sign
reading:
Spitting Prohibited. Penalty £lO.
Ma Tlstox Tobzoo Mul'ta £lO.
... .{My typewriter won't write
Chinese characters) £lO.
E Proibito Sputare Contravenzione
£lO.
Atta Topey TTyein TTpoeTimon {or
something like that —capital “Ts”
with the left side of the cross-piece cut
off are beyond the power of my old
Remington) £lO.
The “£10” in all cases, however, obvi-
ously needed no translating. Which con-
firms the old saw that money talks all
languages—especially when it’s going to
cost the “Spickotty.”
♦+♦ *
“Benbow”: Guy Howarth’s reminis-
cences of old houses in Sydney’s quieter
streets reminded me of another, then
standing in Phillip-street and used as a
coaching-school for aspirants for marine-
officers’ certificates. A visitor would come
from his ship to see one of the students,
cast his eyes round and invariably say “I
seem to recall this house somehow. Isn’t
there a bathroom just round that corner?”
Came the revelation when a sozzled
gentleman arrived and spent some time
trying to coftvince the tutor that he must
see Miss Smith at all costs. The house,
you see, had once been a pleasure-berth
catering to merchant-ships’ officers.
“Sack”: The girl came on our city job
at lunch-time. She had a nice smile, an
English accent and a handful of hair-
combs. These were absolutely free, she
assured us, handing the combs around ;
it was an advertising goodwill-gesture on
the part of Wellknown’s soap. Now, who
had a wife? Women loved these big,
black combs, they were so strong and yet
so pliable. Yes, there were plenty of
them, as well. “Everybody got one?
Good. Now these, of course, could not be
given away entirely free, you realise that,
don’t you?” (An extra-sweet smile.) “In
“Hold it over me! Wont you ever learn ?”
actual fact they cost five-and-six to make,
but as part of the campaign, the firm is
prepared to lose sixpence on every
comb.” Of course we shelled out —what
else could we do? But the next bloke
who starts telling us a yarn about a
Choom buying the Harbor Bridge or
falling for the three-card trick won’t
have an appreciative audience.
♦♦♦ ❖
“C.A.L.”: With “life” photographers,
the most popular subject seems to be the
nude or semi-draped female, but Number
One motif among “still-life” snap-shot
shutter-bugs is the small house at the back
of the house. This is the opinion of a
large developing and printing concern’s
manager, and he assured me that in most
photographs connected with a home or
family group, the background invariably
contained this prop. Why, he does not
know; except, possibly, that because of
the indispensable part this utility plays
in the life of the family, it naturally
features in all domestic, garden or home
photographs in the same manner as dogs
or cats are often included.
* ❖ ❖
“Parram”; Plastic poison! Collectors
of classical gramophone records are often
not more musical than collectors of
stamps or dead bugs. Thinking so is only
to muddle love of music with the bower-
bird urge. Actually, records handicap
music-appreciation. For, whereas hun-
dreds of “live” renditions will not stale
a fine work, machine-made encores soon
curdle the best performance into a vac-
cine of boredom which inoculates for
life against any version. L.-P. records
abet the evil; like trees for ever laden
with strawberries and cream, they glut
our eardrums with splendor. Savonarola
would’ve smashed the lot.
“Fred”: Fortnightly over a period of
months she and two friends took a ticket
and had their money’s-worth in planning
what to do with the Big Prize. They
shared a couple of smaller prizes; then
it happened—jackpot! Did they buy the
car and.trailer, take the trip, build the
weekender? Not yet —they’re still look-
ing through the pink pages for solicitors
and barristers. She says it was her money
bought the ticket —they say . . . And so
on.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Clunesman”: If the ladies now prefer
an attack of migraine to the old-fash-
ioned headache (B. 16/6/’54) the male
of the species also has his pet infliction.
Read any newspaper and you’ll see where
a motorist arrested for drunken driving
claimed he had a “blackout.” If a bloke
can’t quite remember in a court case,
he remembers he had a blackout at that
time. It used to be “fainted.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sackfair”: I’ve long nursed a silent
sympathy for ushers in picture-theatres.
To be compelled to stand and watch
even a first-class picture three or four
times a day for weeks would surely make
the most ardent film-fan hate the sight
of a screen. I was sitting in the lounge,
thinking along those lines, when two
male ushers walked past to take up their
posts. “Humphrey Bogart’s in it,” one
was saying, “and I tell you he’s mighty.
He gets a bloke and” “All right, all
right, don’t tell me,” interrupted the
other sharply. “I’m going to see k on
ray night off.”
$4 ❖
“K.A.”: Anyone can be excused for
lack of brightness before sun-up, so we let
our‘ milk-oh off with a caution. Wife
forgot to put out the milk-jug, but remem-
bered the tray for the iceman. She was
not amused at the 96 square inches of
milk which greeted her in the morning.
But the idea was sound. In the bad old
days Before Boards some people kept milk
in a dish —and found cream setting on it.
❖ ❖
“Bombardier”: Now and then I read
in overseas magazines of the latest
developments in firefighting—fog-sprays
and the like, which put out fires in a few
minutes without drenching everything
with water. Sydney’s firemen don’t seem
to read the same magazines. A cobber,
hearing me moaning about this, reckoned
the firemen’s little axes were even worse.
He had a small fire in his house, put it
out, then went out to telephone the brigade
to make sure of it. The engine dashed up
while he was walking back; the firemen
rushed inside and disappeared. A few
minutes later there was a chopping noise
from within, tiles flew off, and the head of
the fire-chief appeared through the hole in
the roof. “It’s all right,” he called to the
bloke at the engine, “the fire’s out.”
£4 4j4
“Cowmonger”: The other day Bluey
became indisposed; hospital X-ray dis-
closed a series of serious spots on the
lung. Bluey (always very forthright)
ejaculated, “Bosh!”; nevertheless he
was sent to a larger hospital, where, in
presence of several eminent medicos, the
verdict was repeated. You could see con-
cern, then hopeful enlightenment, chase
across Bluey’s face. “Let’s have a dekko
at that negative.” Followed relief.
“Thought so —them’s me rivets.” Ex-
plained that shrapnel had shattered part
of his spine, which had been replaced
by a riveted piece of bone, and Bluey’s
ejaculation was sanctioned.
CHARGE DISMISSED
“The drivers are legion who can never see
that many faults which develop in their cars
are in reality their own.” —Motoring journal.
It’s been playing up a lot
Lately. Engine just won’t pull;
Gearbox, steering, gone to pot,
And the clutch is damnable.
Took it down to the garage,
Gripes ! He does know how to charge!
He wanted nearly fifty quid, the bandit!
Said I’d need new piston-rings
And a host of other things.
Done less than twenty-thou. Can t
understand it!
Now, it’s not as if I’m one
Of those speed-mad, reckless goats.
When I give the bus the gun
It’s to find out how it motes.
But I never, never go
More than sixty —oft below,
And when Fm cornering I don’t abuse
it —
I brake down to forty, hard,
For I have a strong regard
For the car — I’m always careful how I
use it.
Mine’s one of the smallish cars.
But the steepest hill it clears
While in top. It shudders and jars.
But that does save wear on gears.
And I never ride the clutch —
Well, at least, not very much;
Only while waiting at steep intersec-
tions.
But the plates got worn somehow.
It’s the way they make cars now,
Just slapped together, chockful of
defections.
There’s another thing that riles:
Tyres were worn and torn and gapped
Ere they’d done nine thousand miles —
Too far gone to be recapped.
Now, if I were not a cove
Who was careful how he drove
I wouldn’t mind. But I know who is
blameful:
It’s the mob who made the tyres.
Claim they use best rubber, the liars.
It’s all cheap stuff they put in — oh, it’s
shameful!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
FLIGHT OR FANCY?
“Luminous objects which eyewitnesses
described as ‘flying cigars’ were seen in parts
of South-East Finland.” —Sydney “Sun-Herald .”
New stars in their courses
And then flying-sauces
( Er, saucers, I mean) ,
Supposedly seen
By imaginative eyes
In the various night skies . . .
Now, bucking the stars,
Slim flying-cigars,
Like fiery streaks,
Are giving necks creaks.
Are these satellites’
Or meteorites.
Or simply (this seems
More likely) pipe-dreams?
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


PERSONAL ITIMS
When the Japs pressed down the spine
of the Malay Peninsula, then flooded
across to Sumatra, they captured, among
others, a tirelessly-working, not at all
clinical-looking, chap tending wounded.
Answering to Albert Coates, he had been
president of the Victorian 8.M.A., had
earlier alternated between mail-sorting at
Melbourne post-office and medicine at the
university. After capture he performed
remarkable surgical work among prison-
ers in Burma. Melbourne Rotary cap-
tured him the other day, president, 1954-
1955.
• •
Leslie Morshead was wielding chalk
and duster at Melbourne Grammar when
the tocsin clanged in 1914. He joined
the A.I.F. at once, got into just about
everything from the Landing to the Hin-
denburg Line, and had his exploits
rewarded with C.M.G., D. 5.0., ribbon
of the Legion of Honor, and six “men-
tions.” He’was the Orient Line’s Sydney
manager when the 1939 call shipped him
off, to become historically cemented with
names like Tobruk, Alamein and Borneo.
Now g.-m. of the line in Australia, he’s
turning over his trick to John Bates, an
assistant-purser in the company about
the time Morshead joined it in 1924.
Bates shipped naval sealegs in War 11,
commander, R.A.N. Reserve, He was
attached to the Allied Intelligence
Bureau towards the end, functioning in
Morshead’s area, Morotai and Borneo.
JOHN SELF, from London to Queens-
land at 14, from legal-office to Shell,
now secretary of the Queensland
Employers’ Federation.
Newest captain in her Majesty’s Aus-
tralian Fleet, William Beresford Moffit
Marks, known indiscriminately to his
colleagues as Boomer and Harpo, one
of the biggest men in the R.A.N., and
one of its best-liked gunnery-jacks.
Destroyerman by heart and training, by
relation son of a 1920 Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs, he had charge of cruiser
Shropshire’s eight-inchers at the end of
the Pacific stoushing, and has been just
on 30 years in Service blue.
e ©
“M.C.”: I dips me lid to the Buck-
jumping Rector (B. 7/7/’54), but must
make one correction. He may have
officiated at the bedside of a dying buck-
jumper of some note, but the man was
not Lance Skuthorpe. I can assure Canon
Warner Shand that the “Professor” (he’s
now in his ’eighties, with all the verve
of a brumby colt) has recently emerged
from Sydney Hospital, little the worse
for two operations. His photograph was
in a Sydney daily recently when he gently
lassoed a stray wallaby in a suburban
street and fed it in his backyard. I am
glad to be able to make this correction ’;
Lance is one little bit of Australia we’d
be sorry indeed to lose.
• •
R. W. Brownlie, of Perth, has jogged
along; in turn, secretary of the Bruce
Road Board, afiditor and inspector of
the Department of Local Government,
secretary of the Commonwealth Rural
Reconstruction Commission; deputy-
director of the Farmers’ Debts Adjust-
ment Board, secretary and treasurer of
the Agricultural Bank, member of Royal
Commissions dealing with disabilities of
farmers, chairman of an inquiry into war-
service land-settlement, a commissioner
of the Rural and Industries Bank. And
chairman of the Westralian Housing
Commission, from which chair he’s just
shoved out to well-earned grass.
“D.”; Stewart House, which looks out
over the Pacific from Curl Curl (N.S.W.),
was an idea which became a fact back in
1930 when it was founded by a committee
of public-school teachers as a place
where not-so-fortunate youngsters from
all over N. S. Wales could go for a few
weeks of salt air and pleasant living.
One of the teachers was John Travers,
who was managing superintendent of
Stewart House from its foundation until
he died the other day. A man of unselfish
energy and immense goodwill, Travers
began life as a schoolteacher and almost
immediately concerned himself with the
education and welfare of malnourished
children in public schools. That interest
led him naturally to Stewart House,
where, in 24 years, thousands of
youngsters passed through his hands and
emerged a little better and a little happier
for it.
• •
A brainy chap whose realm is north
of the chin, Dr. P, O. Bishop gets Sydney
University’s Peter Bancroft Prize for
medical research. Awarded for his work
on transmissions in the brain’s visual
centres, the prize comes after four years
of research at the National Hospital for
Nervous Diseases in London, after
which* back in Sydney, he established
the university’s Brain Research Unit.
He’s now a Reader in Physiology at the
institution,
• •
When, thirty-odd years back, Mid-
shipman David Hugh Harries left
Flinders naval college he had, tucked
under his arm, the Grand Aggregate and
history prize and firsts in physics, chem-
istry, English, French and seamanship.
Two years ago 22 awards were made to
R.A.N. men off Korea; 20 of them went
to carrier Sydney, which says something
for the training of her c.-o.—Captain
David Hugh Harries. His share was
C.B.E. In between snotty- and skipper-
rank Harries had commanded a mine-
sweeping flotilla off War II England, also
cruisers Shropshire and Australia; before
he took over the Sydney, he bossed
Balmoral naval depot, and, after Sydney,
the huge depot from which he had
graduated long leagues before. Now head
of the Australian Joint Services Staff in
Washington (U.S.), he goes up to flag-
rank, rear-admiral. Navigator by trade,
with foreign languages for relaxation.
• •
One of the senior Chairs of Agricul-
ture in Britain (at King’s College, New-
castle-on-Tyne) goes to Enzedder Mal-
colm McGregor Cooper, now Professor
of Agriculture at Wye College, University
of London. The new job will include
supervision of a 500-acre experimental-
station and a 742-acre commercial-farm.
• •
“Smiler”: There must have been a wry
grin somewhere about when solicitor
Walter Henderson drafted the recently
publicised will of Peter Mitchell, upper-
Murray grazier. Designed to make its
beneficiaries compete for physical and
intellectual perfection, the will sets out
for study a formidable list of reading
more suited to a Victorian-era bookshelf.
Yet not one of Henderson’s own novels
is listed for reading. He has at least five
to his credit, the first published in Lon-
don in 1907, and the third. The Bathers
(1911), illustrated by Norman Lindsay.
The latest saw the light in 1945, Now 84,
an Alburyite most of his life, Hender-
son was 17 when Rolf Boldrewood was
police-magistrating in the border town.
• •
Arthur Tennyson Smithers, C.8.E., has
been quietly directing Victoria’s finances
since 1937 without incurring much atten-
tion, but he sprang into the limelight
when he thrust a rod into a barrel and
extracted a marble in the first drawing of
a Tatt.’s sweep in Melbourne —thus
directing £lO,OOO into somebody’s pocket.
Smithers joined the Vic. Treasury in
1911. He is a member of the National
Debt Commission, vice-president of the
Marine Board and a trustee of the Shrine
of Remembrance and the National Gal-
lery. A public-spirited man, he is always
ready to serve on civic occasions ; prob-
ably that is why he was selected to draw
the first sweep in the lottery which Mr.
Cain burgled—as a fellow-Premier would
say—from the Apple Island,
• •
“Uramao”: Doffing wig and gown,
Sir Arthur Fair, New Zealand Solicitor-
General in 1925, and for the past 20
years Judge of the Supreme Court. Born
at Charleston, a ghost mining-town on
the west coast, Fair was in England when
the 1914 war broke out. Joined-up
pronto and earned a captaincy in the
Sussex Regiment. In the Sinai and Pales-
tine campaigns, he won M.C.; later he
helped compile a history of his battalion.
Sixty-nine, he’s had close on half-a-cen-
tury of legalising.
• •
Another big art prize, which ranks
after the Archibald and the Dunlop in
value, is the Aubrey Gibson prize of
£lOO, to be awarded to the picture (oil
or watercolor) judged to be the best in
the annual spring show of the Victorian
Artists’ Society in Melbourne. Judge
this year will be Hal Missingham, Direc-
tor of the Sydney National Gallery.
Contest is limited to financial members
of the V.A.S. ; judgment will be an-
nounced at the opening of the exhibition,
Monday, September 20. Prize donor is
Aubrey Gibson, one of the few Mel-
bourne businessmen to have built a gal-
lery in his home.
• •
Putting down the receiver after 46
years’ service, Leo C. Bott, superintend-
ing-engineer of the P.M.G.’s Department
in Perth since 1940. During his time with
the telephone-service in Westralia it grew
from seven exchanges with 4000 sub-
scribers to 20 with 40,000. In younger
days Bott was one of the State’s leading
batsmen.
• •
“D.R.”: Gordon Wallace Fitzgerald Stud-
dert (alias “Pat”) nearly choked Ben Chifley.
The deed related to a certain stubborn school-
days scrum for possession on the footer-field of
Bathurst’s All Saints’ College back in the
’nineties. Chif let go the ball to reach for the
Prime Ministership; Pat let go Chif’s neck to
join Cobb and Co. as office-boy, eventually
rising to Queensland g.-m. in the days when
the company’s Royal Mail coaches were busy
making half the roads in the west, at the ratef
of 12 miles per day through black-mud bogs
strong enough to break a horse’s leg. Young
Studdert, born at Bathurst of Scottish parents,
became the ward of Cobb and Co. governing-
director James Rutherford, then a resident and
public figure of Katoomba, the firm’s h.-q. On
the way up to manager, Studdert came to
Queensland in 1907 as State secretary, kept
the accounts, travelled boxseat from Brisbane
to the Gulf, slept by drovers’ campfires.
Met in Brisbane, now a shortish, erect, brisk
man with silver hair, genial phiz and spectacled
keen blue eyes, he’s probably the only sur-
viving real authority on the old company’s yes-
terdays. He’s the author of A Short History
of the Inauguration and Development of Cobb
& Co., research for which took him to outback
police-stations and early records and sites of
coach-robberies. Today, 30 years after the
last coach ran from Yeulba to Surat in south-
west Queensland (it can be seen at the Can-
berra Museum), and 100 years after' American
Freeman Cobb inaugurated the line, Studdert is
still associated with the company’s name; he
owns the Cobb and Co. store at Surat.
• •
Herewith, in full cry. Sergeant William
Hodge, currently (at Sydney “Royal”)
doing his best to take the reluctance out
of “The Reluctant Heroes.” When The
Bulletin met him, Hodge was theatre-
reminiscing to a Millions Club audience
—suave, well-dressed, soft-voiced; not
at all the Hodge one remembered as the
messdeck-lawyer-type of “Seagulls Over
Sorrento.” And facile! So, perforce,
artist Prior netted him later in his dress-
ing-room. Born in Cardiff, young Willy
started in Shakspeare, graduated to the
juvenile lead in “Dracula,” then into
five years with the War II London Irish
THE SARGE
Rifles, a company which, if not all
recognised heroes, were certainly not
reluctant. Back in England, the film
people fastened on to him—“ Brief En-
counter,” “Tony Draws a Horse,”
among others. Hodge came to Australia
for six months, has stayed, to date, four
years, and with “Worm’s Eye View” has
completed the Service trio. A pleasant
cove, immensely energetic, and, with his
experience of all three Services, qualified
for more than the lance-jack’s stripe the
London Irish gave him if the brew boils
over again.
This Lusby likeness takes in Allan
McSweyn, manager for T.A.A. in
Queensland. Now 34, McSweyn was
headed for a clerical job when Hitler
cut loose. He altered course instead for
the R.A.A.F.—Empire Air Scheme in
Canada; first posting, bomber-pilot in
the U.K. Shot down over Europe, he
was calaboosed in Stalag 111, escaped—
one of the bolts that did come off —and
led a party to freedom over the Pyrenees.
THE MANAGER
He got back into it, to finish up wing-
commander, M.C. and A.F.C. Sizeable,
cheerful (as indicated), with an air of
casual efficiency.
• •
“Macnell”: Sydney’s League of
Ancient Mariners lost one of the most
lively and likeable presidents it ever had
when Albert Aucher (“Sammy” to all
hands) sailed into the sunset. Slight-look-
ing and frosty-pated, a smile never far
below surface, Sammy had stamina
enough to win his master’s certificate in
sail (first canvas reefed in 1899), and
enough business acumen to found, and
successfully develop, the import-export
firm bearing his name. His shoreside
cargo covered articles ranging from cork
to electrical appliances. Also- trochus-
shell; “Aucher-grading” is as well-known
in shell circles as “A 1 at Lloyds” is in
shipping. Sammy was a past-president
of the wholesale Importers’ Association
of N.S.W., and treasurer of the Aus-
tralian Exporters’ Federation.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 66, Edward Satchwell Corn-
wall, sometime junior-engineer in coastal ships
and, at the end, g.-m. and director of the
Southern Electric Authority. His territory took
in pretty well the whole of south-east Queens-
land, from Gympie down to Southport and
Coolangatta. Widely known outside his own
State as an expert on electric-supply, he had
been twice president of the Electricity Supply
Association, and chairman of Brisbane’s division
of the Australian Institute of Engineers.
In Melbourne, at 76, Very Reverend William
Philip Hackett, S.J., former rector of Xavier
College. Director, since its foundations* of the
Melbourne Central Catholic Library with its
50,000 volumes, he had been, since 1941, a
trustee of the Victorian Public Library.
At 82, at Bournemouth (Eng.), John Alfred
Wallace, claimed to be Australia’s first stamp-
dealer. He opened a stamp-shop in Melbourne
in the ’eighties, but stayed only three years
before moving to London, where he was said to
have millions of stamps in stock. A recent
advertisement of his London business carried
a picture of Wallace standing in front of his
Melbourne shop, which stood on the site of
the present National Bank, opposite the Block
in Collins-street. He was a nephew of Samuel
Calvert, who engraved many stamps in Queen
Victoria’s reign.
At Herberton (N.Q.), Mrs. Nancy Francis,
North Queensland poet, journalist and worker
for Binghi. A native of Derbyshire (Eng.), she
came to Australia shortly before War I, and
for many years, as “Black Bonnet,” contributed
verse and articles to The Bulletin.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 81, John Malcolm, for
just* on 40 years from 1905 Professor of
Physiology at Otago University. A Scot from
Caithness, and M.D. from Edinburgh University,
he began shortly after landing in New Zealand
to analyse the country’s food for vitamin-
content; he was one of the first lecturers to
stress the value of vitamin-study. Admiral
Byrd consulted him in Dunedin on his sled-
dogs’ diet when preparing his 1928 Antarctic
expedition. So satisfactory was the pemmican
formula evolved by Malcolm that the explorer
later publicly acknowledged his part in the
expedition’s success.
In Melbourne, at 83, Samuel Row Simmons,
author of three books of verse, and working
at the end on a lifetime job compiling a
bibliography of Marcus Clarke. A well-known
exponent of fine printing, Simmons printed
Serle’s Australian Bibliography of Poetry and
Verse. Some of his sonnets appear in Serle’s
Anthology, and also in Louis Lavater’s
Anthology of Sonnets.
At Mt. Gravatt (Q.), at 81, William Clarke,
one of the State’s best-known lithographic
artists. Born in England, in Queensland most
of his life, he produced the illuminated addresses
presented to the Duke of Windsor (then Prince
of Wales) and to the Duke of Gloucester when
they visited Brisbane.


THE UTTER CAD


ABORIGNALITIES
Ti/fDVING from one country job to an-
other, we stopped at a town for tea
and lubrication. Fred didn’t drink, but
he loved poker. He got himself into a
game and, knowing his form, we groaned
to one another and prepared for a siege.
Nine p.m. came, and with a journey of
about three hours still ahead of us we
were restive. But there comes a time when
even the most rabid gambler must leave
the table temporarily. We promptly
headed Fred off and got to work on him.
He listened patiently enough, then told
us: “It’s a matter of principle. I’m hold-
ing those blokes’ dough. You can’t
knock-off when you’re winning.” He
strode back, picked up his hand and
played it out. Three minutes later we
were on the truck and heading for our
destination. “What made you change
your mind, Fred?” asked Long Harry.
“I’ll tell you,” growled Fred. “When I
was leaving the table I took a quick squint
at that blue bloke’s hand. When I got
back my hand hadn’t been touched —I
could tell by the way I left it. So I bet
up big. And d’yer know what? That
blue-headed cow beat me! That finished
me; I wouldn’t play with a cheat.” —
“8.A.K.”
* * * *
“Clunesman”: After his par. mention-
ing “Monaro district” (B. 30/6/’54)
“W.P.T,” had better not come near
Cooma again. Stone the crows! Monaro,
on Monaro, or even on the Monaro, but
Monaro district —never!
* ♦ ♦ •
“Carmonger”: Where did “Quo
Vadis” (B. 23/6/’54) spend his 40 years
of experience in car-repairs with-
out seeing a welding-torch used on
a radiator? I always use one to
unsweat and resolder when doing
a radiator clean-out; in Rabaul
I once cut out 42 tubes of a big
truck-radiator core and repaired
them entirely with a welding-
torch. With such an outfit Hedley
could have easily unsweated the
empty water-cans and used the
solder from them for a repair job
—l’ve done this myself in an
emergency whereas using an
ordinary fire would probably have
meant the loss of all the solder.
In case “Q.V.” asks where the
flux would come from, spinifex-
resin makes quite a useful substi-
tute. The advantage of a torch
is that it can be used in positions
where a soldering-iron can’t. I
doubt if Hedley could have made
a job of it, anyway, as Nancy
Cato’s story made it clear that he
was rather an unconscious bloke ;
but so is “Q.V.,” apparently, with
his talk of repairing a large hole,
exposed to continuous scraping over sand
and spinifex, with a bit of glue.
“Dustman”: Reported that an argu-
ment is developing in Denmark over
whether or not a hen can deliver a five
chicken. A Danish farmer noticed that
one of his hens suddenly stopped laying
and became sick. At an unspecified time
later it as suddenly became sprightly
again, and there was a chicken, described
as spindly and bedraggled, in the run
with it. There were no hens sitting on
the farm at the time, and the farmer has
a theory that an egg, without a shell,
became lodged in the bird’s ovary and
hatched, the chicken then being delivered
instead of an egg. The Copenhagen Zoo-
logical Museum says it’s impossible.
What does the Council say?
* * * ♦
“Jackstay”; Submarine “rivers” and
submerged currents running counter to
the surface-current, mentioned recently
in connection with the Koombana and
other missing ships, are by no means rare.
The phenomenon is frequently encoun-
tered by fishermen on the N.S.W. central
coast, where the surface-current sets
south almost the whole year round.
About half-way out to the edge of the
continental shelf there’s often a very
strong current on the bottom, setting
north, which hampers fishing for days on
end by getting the nets in a rare old
tangle. If these counter-currents can
exist in relatively-shallow waters —say
25-30 fathoms —how much more power-
“ This honeymoon'll give us a chance to catch up on a bit of reading."
ful must they be in the deeper waters of
the Indian Ocean, where movement of
the water is affected much more by trade-
and monsoon-winds and by the vast sur-
face-area subjected to the sun’s heat?
* * * *
“Saaedi”; Tell “Kerba” (B. 7/7/’54)
that the bird with the resound-
ing call of “E ee~chong” is the rufous-
whistler, one of our sweetest singers.
The cock is quite a handsome fellow, with
white throat and rufous breast; the hen,
as befits her dangerous job of baby-sitter,
is plainly garbed. Like the loud “Chu!
Chu! Chu!” the lyrebird makes before
commencing his inimitable concert of
bird-calls, the “E ee-chong” of the rufous-
whistler is frequently the prelude to a
string of melodious songs. The rufous-
“Well, can you identify the one who did it?”
whistler, with his close cousin and fellow-
songster the golden-whistler, may still be
heard, and sometimes even seen, amongst
the big timber that adjoins some of
Sydney’s outer suburbs.
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: Alec H. Chisholm is
to be congratulated on pointing out how
the Australian bustard is threatened with
extinction (B. 30/6/’54), though the
position isn’t quite as bad as he fears;
potential wild-turkey sanctuaries are in-
creasing in the outback. One of the
first examples was created when the
B.H.P. at Whyalla used water from the
Morgan pipeline to grow irrigated pas-
ture for the dairy-cattle which provide
the town’s’milk. John'Goode, the botanist
in charge of the pasture-establishment
and tree-planting work, found that
several pairs of wild-turkeys came to the
new oasis and took over the job of keep-
ing the pasture free from grasshoppers and
other pests. Naturally Goode enforced
a “no shooting” order. During the past
few years many outback stations have
gone in for plots of from 50 to 75
acres of irrigated pastures as a form of
drought-insurance. In many cases the
irrigation- water is raised by a windmill
with a 30ft. wheel. Given a reasonable
amount of wind, this mill can lift up to
30,000 gallons a day. Wild-turkeys soon
arrive on these paddocks and perform
the same service as at Whyalla. I sug-
gest that every Department of Agriculture
and the C.5.1.R.0. take up the fight by
informing every station-owner with irri-
gated pastures that shooting wild-turkeys
is a very shortsighted policy.
* * ♦ ♦
“Hostile”: A grass-owl—a very rare
bird—fluttered into my camp in the early
hours of the morning and died, probably
from old-age or sickness, for it was In
very poor condition. Its back-feathers were
dark-brown peppered with white spots, its
breast-feathers faintly orange, prettily
spotted, and its tail was barred, the legs
were rather long for an owl, but the large
disks surrounding the eyes were unmis-
takably those worn by the owl family. A
ground-dweller and -nester, the grass-owl
lives on frogs and small rodents.
• * * *
“Sebak”: But must a fox have a
reason for yapping (B. 16/6/’54)? Other
creatures, including the human animal,
need none. What sleep-starved town-
dweller hasn’t silently cursed the back-
yard bitzer that will bark at absolutely
nothing for hour after hour? And who
hasn’t thrown boots at the otherwise-
intelligent rural mong that yowls a seren-
ade without finale at the full moon?
Birds are even more unnecessarily vocal.
Why do two high-flying crows repeatedly
“car” and “caw” to each other? Of
peewees invariably “p ee-wit, pee-wee”
soon after they take off? Jacko laughs
for no apparent reason at all. But the
old spag takes the belt from the lot of
’em. There is no need for an alarm-
clock if a colony of sparrows roost in a
tree within 70yds. of your sleeping-
quarters. With the first light they’ll start —
raucous, snarling, vitriolic, and they can
certainly keep it up. I once read some
soulful lines which mentioned; “The
hymn of praise the waking sparrow
sings.” More like a curse.
♦ * Sj! *
“Bass”: Life as we know it can only
exist within a narrow range of tempera-
tures —even on this earth there may be
some spots where life is impossible be-
cause of extreme cold —and for most life
there must be seasons and an interming-
ling of rain and sunshine. That means
there must be, among other things, a
supporting body, such as the earth, which
has reached a certain stage of coolness
and is within range of a uniform source
of heat. A planet seems to be ,the only
body that fulfils those conditions, and
there must be comparatively few which
keep within the required temperature-
range. Earth does, but how nearly it
mightn’t have. A little closer to the sun
and it would have been too hot, a shade
further away and it would be too cold.
If it wasn’t spinning on its axis there’d be
no seasons, and one side would bake
while the other froze.
* * * *
Ape-men
A RACE of aborigines different from
the. Malays, and occupying the
Malayan jungle, are variously desig-
nated Sakais, Semangs, Sakai-ukuns and
Negritos. Some of them live in treetops
and some in atap villages, which they
vacate and burn every time a death
occurs—as somebody is always dying
they are in a constant state of migration.
They are pagans of small stature, don’t
generally grow crops, but live largely on
tubers, and they -hunt their game with
blowpipes, poisoning their darts with the
sap of a creeper.
They have an ancestor-king named
Moltek who lives in the sim and deals
out all necessary rewards and punish-
ments and puts taboos on eating the flesh
of certain animals as irrational as the
white man’s taboo on drinking after
hours; and they perform the operation
Cf circumcision on males, but not the
complementary one on females, though
with no idea of embracing Islam. They
often call in the Moslem imam to per-
form the circumcision.
They make beautiful combs for their
women, and stone axes, and there are
many signs in the jungle that they derive
from a Neolithic culture. They trade
wild rubber for gramophones with the
Malays where they come in contact with
them, and, like our aborigines, when
they get to know them better, become
inveterate beggars.
An English friend of mine in Penang,
who used to spend his holidays among
the tribes in the remoter districts, told
me that they were the gentlest of creatures
and that he liked them better than his
fellow-clubmen in the Penang Club.
They told him there were tribes still
deeper in the mountains which form
the immense backbone of the Peninsula
who had never seen a Malay, much less
a white man, who were half-man, half-
ape, and immeasurably below them in
civilisation,
Anak Angkat.
THE BUCKET DOWN THE SHAFT
I was working at the windlass,
Doing as I was bid,
Not caring for the bucket
Or what my father did,
Just bored to death and wishing
That I was on a raft
Somewhere upon the ocean
Instead of at the shaft;
The day I dropped the bucket
down the shaft.
While in the hot sun winding,
I’d let the rope run out
And stop it, say, at twenty feet,
Or thirty feet about;
Let the handle fly like lightning
(All to ease my weary graft),
Then catch and wind it up again,
He beneath it down the shaft:
The day I dropped the bucket
down the shaft.
And then I missed the handle
And fast the bucket sped,
Tore down the shaft like blazes
And hit my father’s head;
Then came a solemn stillness,
My back cold as a draught,
My forehead iced and clammy,
Though fire came up the shaft:
The day I dropped the bucket
down the shaft.
The blowflies down there cooling
Came up with bound and leap,
Their wings all brightly blazing
From out that fiery deep,
Where Father, anger burning,
Raked me both fore and aft,
His hot words, like a furnace,
Coming fiercely up the shaft:
The day I dropped the bucket
down the shaft.
He told the flats and gullies,
The mountains and the sky,
That he was not my father—
A so-and-so was I;
Informed surprised goannas
That I was more than daft,
Threatened that very instant
To throw me down the shaft:
The day I dropped the bucket
down the shaft.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


BRITISH
]VTore and more Australian truckmen are finding that Bedford’s low first cost
.. . low running cost and rugged performance make it the outstanding truck
proposition.
Hundreds of letters from experienced Australian Bedford owners prove this
conclusively.
The performance, dependability, economy and suitability of each Bedford
model—the result of Bedford’s more than 20 years of truck manufacture —
make Bedford your best truck buy.
Let us help you to select the model to suit your job.
Official registration figures show that for the 12 months to May 31st, 1954, more
truckmen bought Bedford (30 cwt. upwards) than any other make.
Some reasons for Bedford’s leadership
Extra Duty Engines match power to payload throughout the range. 3 econ-
omical low-revving 6 cyl. O.H.V. units give torque outputs from 168.5 to 234 Ib.ft.
Driver Comfort. There’s room for 3 big men in the Bedford, all-steel safety cab.
3-point rubber mounted for longer life—better riding.
Rugged Long Life Chassis. Specially engineered for each capacity. Suspension,
Frame, Drive-line, Differential, all are built for extra strength without excessive
weight.
Driving Ease. Light, positive steering : 4-speed gears —synchromesh 2nd, 3rd
aM top f “Lockheed” Hydraulic Brakes, vacuum servo assisted on all models
above 30 cwt.
BEDFORD
/
X/..
0
0
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
Sold and serviced by Bedford Dealers throughout Australia
LTD*
• PERTH
BUILD YOUR BUSINESS ON Bdflf
£32/36. .
0 G.M.A.C. Confidential Hire
Purchase Plan is available for
your convenience. Ask your
Bedford dealer.
• Bedford is backed by a nation*
wide service organisation.
• Ask your Bedford dealer about
the “built-for-Bedford” Trojan
Hydraulic Hoist.
Check Bedford’s prices for
Chassis and Cab
15/18 cwt.
30 cwt.
2 tons
3 tons
4 tons
5 tons
5 tons
6/7 tons
6/7 tons
119" w.b.
119" w.b.
143" w.b.
143" w.b.
167" w.b.
167" w.b.
167" w.b.
(Eaton Axle)
116* w.b.
156" w.b.
(All prices plus Sales Tax)
£921
£969
£1,033
£l,OBl
£1,146
£1,173
£1,318
£1,440
£1,460
IZANGAROOS have become so serious
a pest across the whole of northern
W.A. that almost any suggestion is being
considered —someone has even proposed
canning the meat and tail-soup. It
wouldn’t work. There are enough kan-
garoos to keep a meatworks going full-
time, but they’re scattered over a
tremendous area, and they won’t drove
to a central slaughterhouse. Mobile can-
neries are out of the question, particu-
larly in that country, and anyway, who’d
eat the stuff when it was canned? Kan-
garoo-tail soup is as overrated as turtle-
soup—and nobody but a London Lord
Mayor would drink that. Kangaroo-meat
can be good eating, if it’s taken from a
prime beast and cut across the grain;
but it’s not nearly as nutritious as beef
or mutton. Kangaroo-shooters know
that. Those who use dogs to hunt the
’roos on the plains in winter have to
buy station-meat for the mongs. They
get dog-poor on a diet of ’roo-meat. —
“Kelms.”
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: The emu (B. 16/6/’54)
isn’t the only Aussie bird with a monicker
of foreign extraction. The star finch
{Bathilda ruficaudd), a pretty little fellow
from the N.T. which has now become
nearly as familiar to southern aviaries as
his compatriot the Gouldian finch (often
erroneously called the painted finch), was
named after Bathilda, sister of Prince
Lucien Bonaparte, No doubt the gesture
was intended as a compliment, but I’m
not sure that the lady would have been
entirely pleased over the matter. A
damsel of refinement might not feel
flattered to have her name immediately
followed by ruficauda —“red-tail.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Sunday morning, and the
boss was slumped on the tank-stand
suffering-out a hangover. The garden-gate
creaked and Aunt Clara flounced into
the yard. “Have you been to church,
Martin?” she demanded. “Yair,” said
the trump, whom Td already primed of
the epistle and gospel. Clara eyed me
coldly. “Tell me,” she asked her tortured
brother. “What Sunday is it?” I could
have kicked myself for not anticipating
that one, but I surreptitiously spread
four fingers to intimate it was the fourth
Sunday after Pentecost. “Th’ fourth
Sunday” the trump began. “Damit-
all,” he yelped. “Th’ fourth Sunday
after the Newmarket Handicap.”
* * * *
“MiichSonic”: Give an outpost
ground-staffer paint or chalk and he’ll
strike a quip as apt as any you’ll hear
from Jack Davey. At Darwin’s R.A.A.F.
base there’s a vintage Fordson tractor.
She must have been out in every Jap
raid, including and since February 19,
’42, and she coughs, she groans, she
grates. From her tired funnel she blows
ink-black smoke-rings. Her title, painted
on the fuel-tank; “The African Queen.”
* * * *
“Jackstay”: Light on the wandering
habits of the black-beaked tern. One of
the breed, sighted by Alan Rae and Ike
Sear! from their prawn-trawler in Stock-
ton Bight, a few miles north of New-
castle (N.S.W.), was seen to be carrying a
band on one leg. With aid of blandish-
ments in the shape of small fish and a
scoop-net, they managed to nobble the
bird, and found that the band was
marked “20803. Send Dom. Museum,
N.Z.” The bird is still travelling around
Stockton Bight, and the band is now
travelling to New Zealand. Another
tern, bearing what appeared to be a simi-
lar band, was sighted the following day,
but was too shy to be caught.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Those Yanks whose
eyes goggled at the sight of an old
whisky-still (B. 16/6/’54) would have
enjoyed themselves as p.-0.-w. in Bavaria.
Many Australians were sent from stalags
to work on Bavarian farms, and the
peasants treated them well. Most of
the p.-0.-w. had had a tough spin after
capture, and the farmers as a rule took
a delight in testing their capacity to eat
and drink. The drink, in many cases,
was almost pure alcohol, brewed in
home-made stills on the farms. Anything
that would ferment went in—potato-peel-
ings, apple-cores, and all sorts of scraps
—and the product had a kick you’d
never suspect. One Westralian brought
back memories of the farms, the stills,
and particularly of his “employer” —a
woman, who wouldn’t let him lump four-
bushel bags of wheat up two storeys to
tire bin. She said the work was too
heavy for a man, so she toted them up
there herself. The impression was still so
strong, years later, that when he met a
New Australian woman from Bavaria
he couldn’t propose quickly enough. He
confided to me that he was going to get
a little property in the foothills, set up
a still which his wife could operate, and
give up work for good. He got the
property all right, and I went out to see
him but when I got there he was chop-,
ping the wood, so I didn’t mention the
whisky Perhaps his wife couldn’t
manage a still, either.
* ,
“Sack”: If, as I don’t doubt, the Duke
of Wurtemburg (B. 2/6/’54) hailed from
Europe, then the pot was calling the
kettle black when he said that England
“Main thing about this thieving business is simply catch 'em at it .”
was . . . a hell for horses.” European
history and literature abound with in-
cidental crqelty to horses; and my
most vivid recollection of The Three
Musketeers is the callous manner in
which the foursome would shout to one
another “Kill the horses!” when gallop-
ing madly through the night. Further,
were the English always cruel to horses ?
I seem to have read somewhere of a titled
lady who protested bitterly because, dur-
ing the delicate ceremony of quartering
a man, the four horses each received one
sharp cut with a whip?
♦ * ♦ v •
„„ T . ,
Bilsky : When I was eight and my
brother six our parents went to our
nearest, though distant, neighbor’s
funeral, leaving youngest in our charge.
We were walking along when toddler
climbed on to a heap of loose soil and
slithered feet-first down a hole dug ready
for a strainer-post By .° n
stomach I could link his Angers m n ,
but hadn’t the strength to m tom.
thought if the hole wasn tso deep per
haps I could Patting Aands to keep
up his morale I told brother to scrape
the soil slowly over the edge. 1 Kepi
toddler gradually stepping up on me sou,
so that more could be run m from an-
other angle. Before our parents returned
we were able to drag him oyer the top-
the same idea that those New Guinea
boys used to free the bull (B. 16/6/ 54).
Mother didn’t rouse about our dirty
clothes, but I still remember a few or
father’s words when he started to dig
that posthole again.
“Fairf”: Just over a century ago one
John Ray Brennan acquired land 18
miles from Sydney and named the tiny
hamlet which sprang up Donnybrook.
When Sydney s cattle-saleyards close ,
Brennan, leaping into the vacancy thus
created, built extensive stockyards,
changed the township’s name to Smith-
field, after London’s renowned cattle-
market, and cashed-in. The successful first
sales were followed by a drought which
turned the stock-routes to barren tracks
and left the sales with one small herd,
The butchers resisted the subsequent
blackmarketing activities, which almost
i e d to justification of the place’s original
monicker. Then a smart opportunist
built a saleyard at Prospect, about two
miles away . a boycott was placed on
Smithfield saleyards and never lifted,
Today, fast becoming a thickly-popu-
lated outer suburb of Sydney, Smithfield
-still retains the name it had earned by a
mere few weeks of cattle-trading.
A SUPPLICATION
How is it I have never seen before
the fine white eye-lines of the willy wagtails,
or stooping lifted up to study more
the darker markings on the shells of snails;
observed on the bark of trees where smooth
leaves rough
the map of hill and lake, of plain and sea?
One life alone. Lord, for me is not enough;
a handful not too numerous for me.
•
There is a new and waiting world to see,
a promise, and a pilgrimage to come.
I have a sense of haste, of urgency —
the days are few and I have wasted some.
How soon can one find, silver on the air,
the drops of sound from bellbirds when they
chime,
or hear the green drops caught by maidenhair
whilst singing? I only ask for time.
Hold back the blindfold night, prolong the day
until I have seen all with the true eye.
Forgive me then if I should beg to stay
to let the glance range earth and sea and sky.
When there remains no miracle of being,
no point of bird or stone or shell or Sower;
when the heart acknowledges the eye unseeing,
then will I come —but slowly—on that hour.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


*‘Xou asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir?’*
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
BEWSOJV 'and HEDGES Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.’
«NSON & H EDGE 3 ITO
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
TUB CATE KING GEORGE VJ
f,vi
1
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world's most
famous liners , including the following great ships:
QUEEN ELIZABETH • QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES • AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE ■ SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIG • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN • ORONTES • ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO, MAURETANIA
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
TBW/isS
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divouce.
TO PAUL RAYMOND TAYLOR late of
Broken Hill. TAKE NOTICE that
LORRAINE TAYLOR has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 839 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may file an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
Bth of November 1954 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
ADD
A
without FAG!
i*
WITH A
ip
2/n
£23/10/
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of country as well as city nsers.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books.” Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Cbntex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy,
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
Write to
CHARTRES
Ltd.
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
BRISBANE:
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.,
Howard St.
A.lso at *
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPOET
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Rising Expectations”
TN Sydney and Melbourne
activity in the industrial share-
market has lately overshadowed
the demand for oil and uranium
shares. The industrial buoyancy,
noted here last week, preceded
the much-publicised National
Bank report and announcement
of the B.H.P. one-for-five issue
at 30s.
Investment support has con-
tinued to flow towards the market
leaders, B.H.P. at 475, touch-
ing the highest price since
1952, before reaching to 455.
A.C.I. has been exceptionally
strong at just under 50s. —another
two-years “high”—while most of
the other top-liners have moved
forward. Tooth had its run
much earlier, and at 80s. is no
higher than it was some months
ago, though up a little on recent
quotes.
A ripple of interest has been
running through the whole share-
list. It is much harder to pick
bargains than it was only two or
three months ago. Among the
very few classifications not to
respond to the general feeling are
textiles, some heavy engineering
and coal. Bradford Cotton and
Yarra Falls, leaders in their
respective industries, have shown
only a very small rise in past
weeks. Gibson, Battle and
Thirlweil and McKenzie are
weak, though Malcolm Moore
has perked up. J. and A. Brown
has dropped back to 18s. among
the collieries, and yields nearly
9 p.c. on the basis of last year’s
div.
8.H.P., as mentioned, is to
make a one-for-five issue at a
premium of 10s. A new issue is
also tipped from A.C.I. From
some other stocks expecta-
lions are decidedly in the
shape of increased distributions
—it has been a busy year indeed
for industry as a whole, and
there has been the benefit of
tax-concessions. There has been
talk, also, of some relief from
the double-taxation of company
dividends, a practice— at the
Federal level—which was intro-
duced as war-time measure, but
which has continued right up to
the present.
The National Bank, in its
monthly summary, says that Aus-
tralia is showing signs of
approaching a small boom
engendered by its own rising
expectations ; the level of invest-
ment is running high, and
promises to do so for the next
12 months. A task for this
financial year, the bank believes,
is to provide as much real
resources as possible to sustain
expansion.
Slow Drilling
Until a showing of gas (with-
out a definite interpretation) at
9903 ft. in Rough Range No. 1
gave Ampol scrip a kick, oil
shares had a quiet period.
Omati No, 1 (Papua) bypass-
hole still had 815 ft, to go
(at last report) before it
reached the 13,743 ft.-level, where
strong gas-pressure had caused
the original hole to cave-in and
jamb the drill-pipe. The drilling
operation has now become
tricky, with two dog-legs to
negotiate, and Australasian
Petroleum is most anxious not
to “lose the hole” by pushing the
drill too hard. Oil Search
shares dropped on publication of
the report. At Omati No. 2 the
drill is now down to 6080 ft,
In W.A., Rough Range No. 1
hole passed through the fractured
horizon and was again in
s extremely hard rock, with the
drilling-rate reduced to a foot an
hour, when the gas horizon was
struck. Bits were being changed
every seven or eight feet, and it
was taking nearly six hours to
change a bit. Only 42ft. was
drilled in * a week; the gas
horizon was encountered 115 ft.
below the oil “show” reported
on June 24.
Rough Range No. 2 is down
to 610 ft., a gain of 448 ft. in a
week. Apparently the going
here again is slower than
expected.
One of the most active stocks
last week was the 35.-paid scrip
in Oil Drilling and Exploration,
with sales up to Bs. Bd. This
concern has drilling contracts in
Queensland as well as oil-
prospecting interests.
Australasian Oil Exploration, -
testing Reid’s Dome (Q.) for oil
and developing uranium leases
near Mt. Isa (Q.), has kept
around 10s. in the market, and
has continued to attract interest.
But the market is waiting on
somefhing from the West or from
Papua to give it a fillip. In both
spots the drill is slower than
anticipated, and eventual results
can only be guessed at.
Westland Oil
The entire issue of 5,000,000
2s, shares by Westland Oil Co.,
Ltd., has been booked-out in
advance of the prospectus,
thought it was not underwritten.
Vendor’s consideration will be
250,000 2s. shares, not to be sold
by the promoter unless oil is
struck in commercial quantities
and declared profitable by the
Queensland Government.
Arrangements are already
being made by the promoter,
R. H, W. Molesworth (who in
1929 floated Longreach Oil
Wells, Ltd., which produced a
very small quantity of oil from a
bore at 3227 ft.), to prospect the
co.’s area —5000 square miles
south of Longreach—and to drill.
The area apparently does not
include the old Longreach bore,
but it embraces seven water-
bores from which, according to
Queensland Government records,
oil or petroliferous gas rose to
the surface against the pressure
of flowing water. No commer-
cial production of oil was
obtained from any of the bores,
an official summary of which is
as follows:
Bimerah II: 65m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4310 ft.; at 3550 ft.
petroleum in sandstone; gas mainly
CO2, 4.5 p.c. ethane.
Langdale: 30m. s.w. of Longreach.
Total depth 2520 ft.; gas 7.7 p.c.
ethane.
Ruthven 1: 45m._ s.-s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4105 ft.; 2.8 p.c.
ethane gas at approximately 4000 ft,;
wax at 4049 ft.
Ruthven II: Bm. north of Ruthven
I. Total depth 4515 ft.; 3.3 p.c. ethane
gas at 4100 ft.
Warbreccan: 110 m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4330 ft. This bore
was drilled in 1898. Petroliferous-gas
samples taken in 1928 showed esti-
mated volume lOOc.f. a day, with
water, ethane gas 5.5 p.c.
WelLshot VI: 35m. s. of Long-
reach. Total depth 4008 ft. Gas, 3 p.c.
ethane.
Westland III: 45m. s.-w. of Long-
reach. Total depth 2080 ft. At 2035 ft.,
“dark oil.”
One of the bores, it will be
noted, went as deep as 4515 ft.;
the record does not say whether
bedrock was encountered. But
basement seems to be somewhat
deeper than in the area which
the Shell co. abandoned (after
drilling a dry deep-test at
Morelia, 30 miles n.-w. from
Arcadia) in 1951.
W. D. Mott, then Senior
Queensland Government Geolo-
gist, said in the “Queensland
Government Mining Journal” for
October, 1952:
Westland Area:
The showings in bores south of
Longreach, within the area bounded
by Langdale, Portland, Springleigh
and Warbrecoan, indicate this to be
very promising.
Surface geology is of little structural
value in the region, but sufficient
water-bores have been drilled to allow
structure contours to be drawn on
higher formation contacts, and from
these geophysical prospecting _ can be
directed to locate possible stratigraphic
or structural traps in the deeper
horizons.
Mr. Mott has said that sedi-
mentary rocks occupy an area
greater than 450,000 square miles
in Queensland, and that the rocks
containing the best occurrences
of gas and oil or wax are of
fresh-water origin. Over 12,000
water-bores have been drilled,
more than half of which are
shallow. The deep water-bores
are miles apart, and very few
penetrate the sedimentary cover.
To (late oil-manifestations have
been confirmed only from Per-
mian and younger rocks of the
Great Artesian Basin, the Bowen
Syncline and the Moreton Basin.
Mr. Molesworth, in a recent
statement regarding Westland,
said:
The reason for the selection of
this Westland area is the many show-
ings of wax, oil and petroliferous gas
from water bores. Formation-pres-
sures throughout the gently folded
sediments are about, or lower than,
hydrostatic pressure. It is most
probable that numerous manifestations
have been missed because of this
condition; ' spontaneous production
would also suffer because of it.
It has been confirmed that some of
the showings within the Westland area
are from non-aquifer horizons.
Commercial oil still remains to
be discovered anywhere in east-
ern Australia. High geological
opinion has favored W.A. in
recent years. Shareholders in
Westland, however, appear likely
to get a run for their money,
whatever the drilling result.
The Frome-B.H. Co. is prospect-
ing an area to the north of West-
land —161,000 square miles, com-
prising the western half of Cape
York Peninsula and most of the
Gulf of Carpentaria.
Malcolm Moore
Sudden inquiry has taken the
£1 shares in Malcolm Moore
Industries to 41s. 3d. in Mel-
bourne. The shares dropped
from around 455. earlier this
year to 38s, following a cut in
the interim div. from 10 p.c. to
6 p.c. In the preceding full term
20 p.c. was paid.
The co. controls a number of
engineering and similar subsi-
diaries ; among the principal
items produced are mobile
cranes, materials-handling fix-
tures for wharves, mines, gas-
works, etc., earthmoving equip-
ment, conveyors, gantries, power-
farming equipment, etc.
In the term to June 30, 1953,
profits equalled 28.9 p.c. on
average ordinary capital; after
the 20 p.c. div. was paid reserves
stood at £743,262, against a paid
capital of £1,043,637.
Paid capital has since grown
to £1,050,000 in 650,000 £1 ords.
and 400,000 5 p.c. £1 prefs.
Average ord. capital at work
during the past 12 months would
be about £190,000 higher than in
the preceding year and dividend
obligations correspondingly
greater.
According to figures supplied
by the Division of Industrial
Development, Australian manu-
facturers of mechanical hand-
ling-equipment were working at
between 80 p.c. and 100 p.c. of
capacity about three months ago,
with employment in the Vic-
torian industry up about 10 p.c.
compared with the preceding
year.
It would seem that the Mel-
bourne sharemarket expects a
final ord. div. from Malcolm
Moore at a higher rate than the
interim of 6 p.c. Accounts and
dividend arc not due until Sep-
tember.


1,500,000 TRANSACTIONS
HANDLED EVERY WEEK
Over one and a half million entries to customers'
accounts are posted in the ledgers and balanced
by A.N.Z. Bank staff every week. To an increasing
extent, the work is performed on accounting and
ledger-keeping machines which promote both
accuracy and speed.
This great volume of business is another indication
of the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank
with over 780 branches and agencies located to
serve you all over Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji and Papua, and in London.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Agents throughout the world.
this
ucu
taskforce
at work
LOOK AT THESE LOW PRICES:
BASIC TRACTOR: Kerosene-operated with electric
lighting and starting, belt pulley, drawbar, inde-
pendent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat, chaff
screen and canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5 (fronts),
55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs—£799.
OPTIONAL WHEEL AND PNEUMATIC TYRE EQUIP-
MENT: 6.00 x 19, front; 11 x 36, rear; pressed steel
centres—£Bo additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; pressed steel centres
—£lB6 additional.
7.50 x 18, front; 14 x 30, rear; heavy duty centres
(front centres 146 lbs. each, rear centres 630 lbs.
each) —£264 additional. .
OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT: 108" axle, £l5;
hydraulic lift and PTO, £99/18/-; overload release,
£l9; hand clutch, £6/5/-,
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with twin front
wheels are available.
NOTE: Tractor has now been increased a full 10 % in
brake and drawbar b.p., and new modified front and
steering make if more robust, extra strong. Hydraulic
lift and P.T.O. controls now engage independently—
operate separately or togetherl
urn
ZSSSBiKS*
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
BMC
* I***
Complete this coupon—or call or phone—and your nearest
Nuffield Dealer will arrange a special demonstration on your
property.
COUPON
Fill in this coupon. Address an envelope to the Nuffield Dealer in your
town or to your Distributor (listed below),
PLEASE USE BLOCK LETTERS
NAME
ADDRESS
ACREAGE i MAIN CROP
OTHER USES FOR TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS—r
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
NT.25.32 -
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD- A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA)' PTY. LTD.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Not very many years ago,
when aeroplanes were still occa-
sionally called flying-machines,
it was every schoolboy’s dream
to keep one in his back garden.
A private plane for private en-
gagements. And, perhaps, a heli-
copter for short trips between
home and work, or between
home and .playing-fields.
Yet, despite meritorious
achievement in the field of aero-
nautics, Britain is not an air-
minded nation —at least within
its own frontier. The reasons
are twofold; its compact, urban
nature leads to delay because of
congestion in the roads between
cities and airports; and bad
weather often affects passenger
aircraft more severely than rail-
way-trains.
Even for short trips overseas,
the saving in time is inconsider-
able. From terminal to terminal,
the air-trip to Paris takes four
hours —slightly more than half
the time of the “Golden Arrow.”
Of these four hours, one-and-a-
half are spent in getting from
South Bank to London Airport.
A strong case for a helicopter?
Yes, and a much stronger one
than officialdom’s plausible ex-
cuse for a trial service “to test
the public reaction to noise.” At
all events, a helicopter try-out
ferry has recently been operating.
Officialdom must uow be re-
gretting that it made any refer-
ence to noise, for the public
reaction was immediate, voluble
and prolonged. The Whirly Bird,
flying low, follows the Thames
as far as Putney. There are huge
blocks of offices, including the
County Hall, flanking the river
near its take-off, as well as SI.
Thomas’s Hospital and the
Houses of Parliament. Occu-
pants of these (save, for some un-
accountable reason, the last-
named) are furious in protest.
The present helicopters are low-
powered, but their roar is loud
and distracting. Next spring the
new six-seaters will be intro-
duced. Later, “jets” which whine
and scream as well as roar.
Progress, runs the complaint,
is all very well and can’t be
stopped, but need it be so in-
creasingly noisy?
Wails in Westminster
The ugly and unseemly row
over members’ pay is not over,
by any means, but it -is not ex-
pected that all the emergent
threats and possible conse-
quences will be as terrible as
the intensity of feeling aroused.
On one point agreement is
unanimous: none of the parties in
the dispute has gained in prestige.
Indeed, the hot-headed and un-
compromising attitude of the
Opposition has further alienated
the “floating” voters, who are un-
likely to be taken in by pious
rationalisations such as those
about a High Tory plot to “keep
the working men out of Parlia-
ment.” Nor will they be bam-
boozled by Mr. Sevan’s ingenu-
ous statement that the Tories
know “that if members get a
rise it will be impossible to deny
a rise in old-age pensions.”
Moreover, the Opposition’s
withdrawal of “pairing” facili-
ties reveals itself as an obstruc-
tive tactic comparable to a sulky
“go-slow” in industry. It would,
as intended, hit the Conservatives
harder than the Socialists, but is
difficult to carry out over a long
period, particularly as there are
signs that the Labor-party
organisation is becoming more
sensitive to criticism from the
constituencies. This fear was
brought to a head by a rumor
which sprang up to the effect
that, if the Government was
harassed beyond endurance, it
would elect to go to the country
and have a decisive advantage.
The scene in the Commons,
occurring only a few hours be-
fore his departure for Washing-
ton, was a distressingly unhappy
send-off for the Prime Minister,
who, the day before, had received
the warm blessings of the House.
Feelings undoubtedly were ex-
acerbated by the knowledge that
Churchill wanted to honor the
free vote in favor of the £5OO
increase ; and it was confidently
expected that a man of his
character would have won over,
or overruled, those of the Cabi-
net who disagreed with him.
Why did he give way? Cer-
tainly not because, as the “Daily
Herald” insists, he has been “re-
duced to the servant of a reac-
tionary Tory caucus.” Churchill,
though a steadfast House, of
Commons man, is also responsive
to public opinion. It is believed
that this was put to him, in good
set terms, by his Home Secretary,
who, through the Central Office,
knew the depth of feeling in the
constituencies. His Chief Whip
was also there to outline the
effect upon party discipline and
even the possibility of rebellion.
And, of course, there were the
views of Mr. Eden, who might
be left with a troublesome burden
to carry.
The moral, ignored from the
very start, is a simple one. When
you are a public servant and your
value, or your need, in terms of
£.s.d. is in question, it is better
for others to judge. Even if you
are an M.P.
Conquest on Ice
The blue-white oblong of
virgin ice shimmers in the dark-
ened hall. A translucent curtain
at the far end rises to uncover
an Alpine inn, flanked with fir-
trees and backed by a snow-
capped range. The huge audi-
ence claps with delight at the
bright setting. An anticipatory
hum from the loudspeakers gives
place to a monster yodel. From
a platform high among the seats
the band strikes up the overture.
Lilting tunes, familiar but un-
hackneyed after a generation of
repetition, pulsate in furry ampli-
fication through the vast arena.
The postmistress and the page-
boy advance with graceful pre-
cision upon the ice, and soon
the 60-strong corps de ballet,
multicolored and gorgeously
Tyrolean, is weaving and spin-
ning around them.
Thus, with verve and color and
rich spectacle, is made another
immediate conquest of the ice.
In those few touches of bold
simplicity, the atmosphere is set
for the joyful romanticism of
“The White Horsfe Inn” —On
Ice at Earl’s Court.
The reason for the popularity
of this type of show (our most
consistent money-spinner since
the war) soon becomes apparent.
As well as spectacle and color,
the speed and movement are
exhilarating, the cheaper seats
are at no disadvantage, the audi-
ence is committed to no strain-
ing of the eyes or ears, the pre-
sentation is, for the family,
abidingly wholesome, and as an
outing the show is attractive to
the far-ranging coach-parties
which now govern the box-office.
Quite apart from the breath-
taking excellence of the skating,
there are many signs that the
promoters assiduously cater for
their public. The spectacle is
greatly enhanced by the in-
genious introduction of self-pro-
pelled vehicles, from the Salz-
kammergut Flyer to yachts with
luminous sails. And if the humor
is childlike and heavily laid-on
that may well be deliberate.
It is, perhaps, rather difficult
to get used to the amplified
“voices” of the mute and mim-
ing skaters. But you certainly
get your money’s-worth. Not
strictly pertinent to “The White
Horse Inn” are two variety acts,
a Charleston from the entire
company and a long balletic in-
cursion of mythological charac-
ters. The orchestra, too, has
nearly as many changes of
costume as the chorus,
Benatzky’s score is inter-
spersed with “I Wonder Where
My Baby Is Tonight” (for the
Charleston), and excerpts from
Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and
Juliet” (for the forsaken
Josephina’s pas seal).
A good evening’s entertain-
ment for once in a while ; some-
times thrilling, mostly delightful
and wholly escapist.


Act now to protect YOUR ESTATE through the years ahead
■
ft
For your dependants’ sake you have a duty to appoint an
experienced Executor—such as the Union Trustee Company.
During nearly 70 years of administration of every class of
estate the Company has amassed a fund of experience such as
no one person could achieve in a lifetime. To pastoralists,
the expert services of the Company’s Pastoral Inspectors in
each of the three Eastern States is readily available —to provide
valuable “local” knowledge.
Union Trustee services are comprehensive, charges are
moderate. A senior officer will gladly explain these services
at a personal interview—or you may prefer to write for a
copy of the Company’s free booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated la Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba,
Rockhampton and Charleville
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
CVECOND-BIGGEST wool-broking and
pastoral-finance house in the Com-
monwealth, and still expanding, G.M.
also does a large merchandising and
stock-and-station and other agency busi-
ness, and is a run-owner on its own
account as well. Earnings thus depend
mainly upon conditions in the wool trade,
which fluctuate with the relative levels
of seasons, prices and costs.
Seasons have been good to fair over
the last eight years, during which wool-
prices have rocketed, reaching their peak
in 1951-52. They fell to more rational
levels in the following year, then
strengthened moderately and eased a little
during the 12 months to June 30 last, as
the following table, which refers to the
whole Australian clip, shows:
N Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1950- .. 3.547.19.5 £636,330,574 £179/7/9
1951- 3,409,3X2 307,787,401 90/5/7
1952- .. 3,888,753 404,756,387 104/1/8
1953- . . 3,846,786 390,714,585 101/11/5
* 12 months to June 30.
The contraction last season was 1.8 p.c.
in volume and 3.4 p.c. (£14,041,800) in
value.
The co., however, received 453,000
bales (up 8000 bales) and put 483,536
bales (up 60,000-odd bales) under the
hammer, reducing the carryforward to
30,814 bales. And turnover in livestock
and land sales increased, too;
12 Mths. Sheep, Cattle, s - Pigs, Land,
Mch.3l, Number. Number. Number, £
1952 ~ 3,900,000 435,000 130,000 6,500,000
1953 .. 5,200,000 445,000 120,000 4,600,000
1954 .. 5,700,000 475,000 130,000 7,900,000
Fat-stock prices were satisfactory, and
merchandise sales were slightly higher.
Sales of surplus sheep, following resump-
tion of part of the co.’s runs in western
N. S. Wales, helped to bump up earnings
as well.
Aggregate turnover (all sections)
reached £93,000,000, an increase of
£15,000,000, or 19.2 p.c. Excluding
£24,784 arrears of interest recovered,
gross profit shot up by £544,461:
Provi-
Year, Gross* dent Net
Mar., Profit. Expenses. Fund. Profit.
£ £>£>£>
1951 .. 3,868.875 3,123,947 26,764 718,164
1952 . , 3,306,579 2,814,255 35,230 457,094
1953 . . 3,789,327 3,138,714 41,552 609,061
1954 . . 4,333,788 3,524,306 45,223 764,259
* Includes surplus on realisation of investments, etc.
Exes, were £385,592 heavier, but about
two-thirds of this increase was due to
heavier provision for depreciation
(£394,984, up £230,061) on account of the
Adelaide wool-store, built largely of
highly-priced imported materials.
So the profit claimed was moderately
stated at £764,259, up £155,198:
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Eeserves.
& £ £ £
Goodwill written off, £54,469 1
1950 596,207 12>p.c. = 384,000 [ 1,794,724
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Interest arrears recovered, £183,251.. 1,977,975
Surplus sale of properties, £12,808.. 1,990,783
Goodwill written off, £18,450 1
1951 718,164 15 p.c. = 480,000 1 2,180,497
Special grant staff fund, £30,000 J
Surplus tax provision, £219,617 .. 2,400,114
Goodwill written off, £19,786
1952 457,094 10 p.c. = 320,000 ■ 2,497,422
Special grant staff furiti, £20,000
Goodwill written off, £3OOO
1953 609,061 10 p.c. = 320,0004-2,763,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Share premiums, £200,000 .. .. 2,963,483
Tax overprovided, £141,195 .. ..3,104,678
Interest arrears recovered, £24,704 .. 3,129,462
Goodwill written off, £34,661 1
1954 764,259 12 p.c. = 456,000 [ 3,377,060
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
The £764,259 was 20.1 p.c. on average
capital as against 19, 14.2, 22.4, 18.6 and
12.9 p.c. back to 1949. The distribution
was lifted from 10 p.c. to 12 p.c,, of
which 5 p.c. is called bonus, making
the average rate for the last six years
11.5 p.c., compared with 6.1 p.c. for the
six years before that. The £34,661
written-off goodwill was in respect of two
businesses bought during the year—H.
Ledger, Wann and Co., Benalla (Vic.),
and the Queensland Livestock Co.,
Gympie (Q.). The 1953 profit was under-
stated by £141,195 then overprovided for
taxation and now added to free reserves,
which also benefited by recovery of inter-
est arrears already mentioned, as well as
by £200,000 of share-premiums on
800,000 new £1 shares issued at 255. each
early in the term.
The new capital and share-premiums,
and a lot more besides, went into liquids
(up £3,311,333), thus placing the co. in
a very strong position to further assist
clients when the need arises, and to
finance further expansion of the handling
capacity of the organisation:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. £8,200.000 £3,200,000 £4,000,000
Reserves .. 2,497,422 2,763.483 3,377,060
Creditors ~ 8,244,793 6,883,102 8,516,161
Tax reserve .. 1,297,24& 998,829 1,096,769
Pinal div. .. 224,000 224,000 342,000
£15,463,463 £14,069,414 £17,331,990
Liquids . . 4,171,022 2,742,267 6,053,600
Advances m .. 7,610,832 7,583,541 7,404,322
Stocks .. .. 1,395,821 871,597 755,059
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 73,536 73,536 73,536
Shares other
cos 64,271 64,281 65,298
Property, etc. 1,731,990 2,241,965 2,349,657
Plant .. . . 415,991 492,227 630,518
£15,463,463 £14,069,414 £17.331.990
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 12s. 7d. in the £ of outside liabilities
(including tax-provision) as against
6s. lid. a year earlier. The year’s net
addition to premises and plant, etc., was
£245,983, and a lot more is yet to be spent
on expansion and modernisation.
The coming season has got away to a
satisfactory start, the volume of the clip
is expected to approximate last season’s,
demand is expected to remain strong,
and no sharp drop in prices is anticipated.
It all favors another good showing at
net balance, though it is too early yet to
say how seasonal influences will develop.
At 41s. (345, 9d. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 shares return 5.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. dis-
tribution, or 4.8 p.c. on an average rate
of, say, 10 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 365. lid.
Bankers & Traders Insurance Co.
/"WER the last few years this 33-year-
old, soundly-established Sydney-
controlled fire, marine and accident office,
which has world-wide connections, has
had a lean time in the underwriting field,
due mainly to unprofitable foreign opera-
tions. But the div. has remained at 12?
p.c,—an annual event for the last half-
dozen years—thanks to returns from
investments. The policy in respect of
dividends has been to keep the annual
distribution within the net return from
interest, rents, etc., a practice long fol-
lowed Ijy leading British and other offices.
Such a policy leaves the underwriting
surplus during the good years available
to swell reserves and the returns there-
from, thus enhancing the value of the
shares as a holding proposition. During
the lean years, when underwriting is un-
profitable, reserves cushion the bumps.
The theory of averages, however, usually
works well, and in the long-run the gains
far outweigh the losses.
The co., had built up reserves totalling
£844,656 (including £495,000 for unex-
pired risks) to support and assist its
£245,281 of paid capital at March 31,
1954. The two combined need turn in
only 2.8 p.c, to show \2\ p.c. on capital
alone. Actually last term’s net return
from investments was £41,557 (up £8299),
or 16.9 p.c. on capital, thus giving the
12i p.c. a comfortable appearance. For
this and other reasons, including the im
provement in last term’s underwriting
result, the long-term investment outlook
for the scrip is encouraging.
Excluding movements in the reserve for
unexpired risks, net earnings from al
sources were £34,381 stronger last tern
at £63,147:
To Re- Re-
March, Surplus. Dividends. serves. serves.
1949 .. 42,156 12J p.c. = 24,528 17,628 587,195
To reserve unexpired risk, £78,500 .. 665,695
1950 .. 55,422 12i p.c. = 26,367 29,055 694,7 , 50
To reserve unexpired risk, £54,000 .. 748,750
1951 .. 58,062 12ip.c.= 30,660 22,402 771,152
To reserve unexpired risk, £50,000 .. 821,152
1952 ... 23.571 12i p.c. = 30,660 814,063
1953 . . 28,766 12| „ „ 80,660 812,169
1954 . . 63,147 12J „ ~ 30.660 32,487 844,656
The £63,147 was 25.7 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 11.7, 9.6, 21.6, 26 2 and 21.5
p.c. back to 1949.
Underwriting performances compare as
follows:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, Ratio. Ratio.
£ £ £
1950. 934,367 493,304 357,092* 52.8 p.c. 38.2 p.c
1951. 1,096.804 618,732 403,770* 56.4 „ 36.9 „
1952. 1,337.250 814,315 529,596* 60.9 „ 39.6 ~
1958. 1,266,418 782,079 488,831* 61.7 „ 38.6 „
1954, 1,236,778 754,246 460,942* 61.0 „ 37.2 „
, * Excludes tax on investment income.
The contraction of £29,640 in last year’s
net premium income followed cessation
of operations in Pakistan and India, anc
some other centres which were also more
of a hindrance than a help. In Australia
there was a healthy expansion of business.
There was an encouraging drop of 28s.
p.c. in the expense rate, thanks partly to
a cut of £17,719 in the tax-provision
(£23,856). The small reduction of 14s,
p.c. in the loss rate was due to heavy
claims on account of earthquake losses
in the Adelaide district. It is estimated
that insurance cos. as a whole have been
called upon to pay well over £2,000,000
on account of the damage.
Overall, an underwriting surplus of
£21,590 showed up compared with under-
writing losses of £4492 and £6661 for the
two preceding years. The reserve for
unexpired risks (£495,000, down £12,000)
was maintained at a shade over 40 p.c.
of the year’s net premium income, which
is the ratio usually considered adequate.
Balance-sheet figures further reflect the
year’s developments, as well as strong
protection for both policyholders and
shareholders;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £245,281 £245,281 £245,281
Reserves .. .. 814,062 812,167 844,654
Sundry creditors* 257,560 240,247 178,683
Outstanding claims,
etc 566,564 543,122 566,869
Final div. .. 18,396 18.396 18,896
£1,901,863 £1,859,213 £1,858,883
Freeholds .. .. 308,059 324,095 356,538
Gov’ment securities 585,796 595,064 564,477
Advances co-ops.f 195,372 203,988 215,293
Shares subsids. .. 69,995 69,995 69,995
Shares other cos. 247,351 253,149 250,741
Book debts, etc. ~ 408,911 308,042 257,999
Cash .. .. 86,379 104,880 138,840
£1,901,863 £1,859,213 £1,853,883
* Includes provision for taxation. | Advances to
building co-op. societies.
Book-debts were reduced by £50,043
and the amount coming to credi-
tors, etc,, by £61,564, while out-
standing claims increased by £23,747.
The growth in the freehold item
(up £32,443) was due mainly to
purchase of branch premises in Australia,
The general revival of economic activity
augurs well for the current term’s pre-
mium income, and, with unprofitable
overseas business out of the way, further
improvement in the underwriting result
can be anticipated, subject, of course, to
unexpected developments.
At 40s, (375. 6d. a year ago) the £1
shares paid to 12s. 6d. each return 3.9
p.c. on a 12| p.c. div. basis, or 4.7 p.c.
if and when the distribution is lifted to
15 p.c. Net tangible cover is 595, 9d.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
■pROM its well-equipped mill at Mary-
borough (Vic.) and three auxiliary
plants at Dunolly,* Talbot and Avoca,
Maryborough Knitting turns out about
one-tenth of Australia’s total production
of knitted underwear. A small
associated concern. Interknit Hosiery
Co., Ltd., which operates at Clunes,
contributes to the pool.
Today the co. is firmly established and
prosperous, though its early history wasn’t
happy. In 1931, eight years after its
formation, £52,000 (11s. per share, pref.
and ord.) was lopped off capital to
eliminate intangibles and write down
fixed assets. Then a new management
came in, shareholders got regular, and
satisfactory returns on their reduced
capital, reserves were built up and a
lot of attention was given to*plant, the
chief earning asset. For the 14 years
to 1951 divs. averaged 16.2 p.c., the rate
being steady at 22.2 p.c. for the last four
of them.
In 1950 ‘freehold and plant were inde-
pendently revalued and written up in the
books by £40,901 and £122,010 respec-
tively, and £162,911 was credited to an
assets-revafuation reserve. In the follow-
ing year shareholders put up £55,855 of
fresh ord, capital, and received £18,619
of bonus scrip. The two issues lifted
paid capital to £186,186 in ss. shares,
of which £26,263 carries a cumulative
8 p.c., and participates with the ord.
capital in any distribution beyond that
point. The div. dropped from 22.2 p.c.
to 10 p.c., the lower rate being equal to
11.1 p.c. on capital as it stood before
the issue of gift scrip.
The post-war inflationary boom
reached a peak in 1951, after which a
drop in certain raw-material prices,
buoyant costs, declining demand and
sharpening competition caused Mary-
borough’s earning to fall sharply;
, Dividends—To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
Assets revaluation reserve, £162,911 247,757
1950 .. 34,927 22.2 p.c. = 18,914 16,013 263,770
1951 . . 66,709 22.2 „ „ 24,825 41,884 305,654
Reserves capitalised, £18,618 .. 287,036
1952 .. 31,673 10 p.c. = 18,619 13,054 300,090
From tax reserve, £3565 ~ . . 803,655
1953 .. 29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 10,908 314,563
From tax reserve, £7859 .. .. 322,422
1954 .. 62,764 10 p.c. = 18,619 44,145 366,567
Last term the economic climate
brightened, the cost-curve flattened out
and demand picked up. Production and
sales were a record, output reaching
nearly 4.5 million garments (up one
million) and turnover £1,041,000 (up
£96,000). The effect on gross profit was
a leap of £79,320:
1952. 1953. 1954.
£ £ £
Gross profit .. 171,220 154,126 233,446
Exes 87,547 76,600 99,182
Depreciation .. 15,000 15.000 25,000
Tax .. ~ 37,000 33,000 46,500
Net profit .. 31,673 29,526 62,764
Exes, took £22,582 more, and deprecia-
tion and tax a further £lO,OOO and
£13,500 respectively. Net profit claimed
was thus £33,238 higher at £62,764,
which equals 33.7 p.c. on total capital,
as against 15.8 and 17 p.c. in the two
preceding terms. The div., however, was
kept at an all-round 10 p.c., the board’s
declared policy being to build up reserves
and to finance expansion from surplus
earnings.
Financially, the position is excep-
tionally strong:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £26,263 £26,263 £26,263
Ord 159,923 159,928 159,923
Reserves .. 300,090 314,563 866,567
Depreciation res. 30,000 45,000 70,000
Overdraft . . 58,223 10,736
Creditors ~ 80,761 37,146 32,977
Tax reserve ~ 37,000 33,000 46,500
Stafi fund .. » 6,000 6,000 6,000
Final dividend . . 18,619 18,618 18,619
£716,879 £640,513 £737,585
Freeholds .. 69,414 69,414 69,751
Plant, etc. .. 155,943 166,985 177,741
Stocks .. .. 339,510 248,465 314,247
Book debts .. 129,997 114,928 153,826
Cash, etc. .. 22,015 40,721 22,020
£716,879 £640,5.13 £737,585
Brisker trading shows up in additions
of £65,782 to stocks and of £38,898 to
book-debts. To finance these movements


m
r®
mu
Industrial
ENTERPRISE
IRON AND STEEL. The first
pig iron was made at Mitta-
gong, N.S.W., in 1848 hut it
was not until many years later
that the iron and Steel Indus-
try hecame soundly established.
Australia owes much to the
faith and determination of en-
terprising men who made great
efforts to put production on a
sound basis in the early days
of the Industry. To-day, Iron
and Steel production is Aus-
tralia’s greatest manufacturing
industry with an export trade
valued at many millions.
tu
f G are proud of the part we
have played since the early days in
the development of our Nation’s in-
dustries.
Owned and staffed by Australians,
we offer a complete and modern bank-
ing service to meet the present day
needs of progressive undertakings,
both large and small.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
* THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Missing Friend
WOULD REGINALD ANSLEY, a son of
JOHN HENRY HOWLAND ANSLEY, or
anyone knowing his present whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Auckland, New Zealand.
l?aMh lit ihc
The farther we travel in Life, the more evident the
plan and purpose in living become.
The design comes out in astonishing detail as Man
harnesses the atom and trajects himself through space
beyond the speed of sound. But that does not shatter
the plan.
What if rays of the sun can now be trapped to
power radio communication? Does it change the weave
of a wonderful pattern if men can bring the elements
to fantastic use?
To me, it only edifies and makes more revealing,
more convincing by their very achievement, the work-
ings of the human spirit on all that is material around
us. It simply means that the extra sources of power we
tap were there all along for the using; it brings us
closer to the pattern of the Creator,
Construe it.in whatever religious terms you may:
But if you accept it, you must have Faith,
It is to Faith with all it entails in strong and
inspired action, that I have been seeking to appeal
among my fellow-Australians.
If we believe in the spiritual destiny of mankind,
we cannot be content to look upon this country and
say merely; “This is ours to enjoy.” Not when there
is so much to be done in bringing Australia to a lich
maturity, aided by the modern means that science and
research have given us.
It is my belief that we will see this as our setting
in a Christian Purpose reaching round the earth.
Seeing that, we put a value on ourselves ; on our
responsibilities ; on the favour that is ours in peopling a
land so plentiful.
Consider this: the farmer plants his grain. It
grows and comes to ear. Food is brought into the
world. Material, will, action and faith, these have
combined to produce it.
And behind them has been the tremendous creative
force that can germinate a seed.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
\
NAME
ADDRESS
ẃ
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2
Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
the co. used surplus earnings and
additions to provisions, drew on
cash-balances for £18,701 and
went to its bankers for £10,736.
Current indications suggest
another good result for the
current term. “Future prospects
are believed to be excellent and
most manufacturers’ forward
orders are very strong. Com-
petition amongst manufacturers
is keen but healthy,” are the
Department of National De-
velopment’s comments on the
industry. At 9s. 3d. (Bs. 6d. 12
months ago) the f.-p. ss. ords.
return 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover is
16s. 6d. a share. The prefs.
seldom appear on the market.
Broken Hill Proprietary
To help finance completion of
its big post-war programme of
expansion and development, par-
ticularly the hot-strip mill and
auxiliary units for manufacture
of tin-plate at Port Kembla, as
well as a new 50,000-ton-p.a.
steel-rolling mill at Kwinana
(W.A.), both now well on the
way, and to provide for further
extension of existing steel-mak-
ing units and for additions to
the fleet of ore-carrying vessels,
B.H.P. is to offer those on the
register, at a date yet to be
announced, 4,993,815 new £1
shares at 30s. each, one for five.
The issue will lift paid capital
to £29,962,889, of which
£16,080,290 will have been
gathered since May, 1949, at a
premium of 50 p.c., which makes
an 8i p.c. div. (rate paid for the
last seven years) worth only 5.5
p.c. On the increased capital of
£29,962,889 an 8i p.c. div. will
call for £2,496,907, or £49,414
less profit than was claimed for
the year to May 31 last.
Following announcement of
the new issues in May, 1949, and
January, 1951, the price of the
co.’s shares fell on each occasion
by 4s. —from 525. 3d. to 48s. 3d.
in 1949 and from 625, 9d. to
58s. 9d. in 1951. On Friday last,
just before announcement of the
present issue, the scrip fetched
465. 9d. t On Monday the figure
stood at 455., making net
cost, after exercising the rights
and allowing for brokerage,
435. That gives the rights
a theoretical value of 12s. 6d.
each, to return 3.9 p.c. on an
8i p.c. div. basis. Considering the
size of the issue, the rights will
probably become available at
less than theoretical value.
The investor who looks for,
say, 4.7 p.c. on his money counts
on a 10 p.c. distribution, and/or
other benefits, both of which
appear to be a reasonable possi-
bility when the new plant gets
into production and the call for
heavy capital expenditure eases.
In 1940 the co. capitalised
£4,445,859 previously gathered
in share-premiums by way of a
bonus share-issue.
First drilling tests by Mt. Isa
Mines, Ltd., for uranium-bearing
ore on its recently-acquired
Glowing Hills leases, about 25
miles west of Mt. Isa (Q.), have
proved disappointing. Produc-
tion at the co.’s big silver-lead-
zinc-copper mine for the year to
June 30 last compares with the
preceding 12 months as fol-
lows :
1952-53. 1953-54.
Tons. Tons.
Ore treated 1,045,582 1,177,270
Silver-lead bullion . 36,970 35,725
Zinc concentrates .. 41,828 40,198
Blister copper .... 5,477 19,868
Output of the new copper-mill,
which first came into production
in February, 1953, is ahead of
schedule, and current production
is running at the rdte of about
25,000 tons blister per annum,
thus making the co. easily the
largest copper-produSer in Aus-
tralia. Despite the drop in metal
prices the co. paid an interim
div. of 10 p.c. in respect of the
year to June 30 last, as against
an interim 5 p.c. for the previous
term, when a total of 15 p.c. was
paid from profits equal to 29 p.c.
on capital. The market prices
the f.-p. £1 shares at 565. 3d.
as against 41s. in December last.
♦ * * *
Samples showing as much as
4.5 p.c. uranium oxide by
chemical assay have been taken
from a plateau about H miles
north of Lake Dundas (W.A.)
by Western Uranium Mines,
N.L., the jointly-owned subsidi-
ary of Norseman Gold Mines,
NX., and Uranium Mines, NX.
More than a mile of surface
trenching is reported to have
disclosed two types of uranium-
mineralisation. The first occurred
in a fracture zone with kao-
linisation and secondary silifica-
tion having an iron-stained box-
work structure; the second iri a
horizontal zone 3ft. to sft, thick,
beginning at a depth of about
3ft. below the surface. Chemical
assay of a sample of soil from the
second zone showed 0.1 p.c.
uranium-oxide. Despite the ex-
ceptionally high 4.5 p.c. assay, it
is too early yet to whoop about
the possibilities of the new find.
Uranium-bearing ore of com-
mercial grade has proved very
patchy in the Northern Territory,
where several leases have been
abandoned for this reason. A
lot more development work will
need to be done before any
reliable assessment of the com-
mercial value of this new find
can be made. The highly-radio-
active crust of Lake Dundas bed
proved, upon chemical assay, to
have a low uranium-oxide con-
tent, which emphasises the fact
that you cannot sell radiation;
only the mineral content of the
ore can be separated and mar-
keted. Values need to be fairly
evenly distributed to enable the
average grade of any consider-
able tonnage of ore to be
assessed.
* * * *
Norseman Gold Mines, Norse-
man (W.A.), has completed its
new shaft on the Iron King
leases, where production of
pyritic ore is the backbone of
the co.’s earnings. The new
winder and surface installation
are in commission, and function-
ing smoothly, and all ore from
the mine will be hauled through
the new shaft by the end of this
month. The heavy-media separa-
tion - plant and underground
crushing-station are expected to
be in operation by October next.
Completion of the programme
will mean a lift in mill output of
pyritic concentrates to about
20,000 tons a month, as well as a
substantial saving in costs. For
the year to October 31, 1953, the
co, netted £62,049, equal to 33.1
p.c. on the £187,500 of capital.
The div., which was lifted from
15 p.c. to 20 p.c., called for
£37,500. The co.’s f.-p. ss.
shares recently sold at 15s. Bd.
* * *
Adelaide-controlled Uranium
Oxide, NX., has abandoned its
options over leases on the Yen-
berri Reserve (N.T.), recently
acquired from Poseidon, Pioneer
Mines and the Austral Mining
Co. Two shafts were sunk to a
depth of about 50ft. each and a
third to 25ft. in typical altered
shear material carrying consider-
able sulphide of iron, but lack-
ing uranium content. The tor-
bernite which occurred in the top
portion of the shear zone was
very patchy and soon cut out.
The point for the investor is
that whoops about torbernite
don’t mean much until some idea
of the amount available has been
ascertained. Torbernite is one of
the most easily treated of all
uranium ores, and consequently
is sought after; but it is a
secondary mineral and migrates
all over the place.


Woman's Letters
MELECDDNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended the ball of the Air Force Asso-
ciation (Victorian Division) held at the
Royale. Wattle, which is incorporated
in the Air Force badge, was prominent
in the floral decorations, which also
featured trails of red, white and blue
flowers. The Vice-Regal party was re-
ceived by the president of the associa-
tion, Air-Marshal Sir. George Jones, and
Lady Jones, who wore a lovely gown of
dove-grey satin brocade printed in a soft-
pink Lady Brooks’s grace-
ful gown of palest-yellow satin had the
deep-V neckline finished with a cuff of
the material.
Lady Williams, who accompanied Air-
Marshal Sir Richard Williams, the
Director of Civil Aviation, wore a gown
of ice-blue nylon tulle. Mrs. J. P. J.
McCauley, whose husband is Chief of Air
Staff, chose a crinoline-gown of lilac-blue
satin which had a pearl-encrusted strap-
less bodice. Her daughter Anne chose
junior-blue tulle with highlights of white
guipure-lace trimming. Mrs. Alastair
Murdoch, wife of Air-Vice-Marshal Mur-
doch, wore white faille. Mrs. Edward
Campbell, who shared the duties of
ticket-secretary with her sister, Mrs. Peter
Cox, wore a sheath-gown of white guipure
lace, Mrs. Cox allied a shell-pink tulle
skirt with a blouse of white guipure lace.
Ruth Morrow’s short bouffant frock was
of grey organza printed in toning roses.
Eva Crowle wore self-patterned ice-biue
taffeta.
☆ ☆ ☆
In their new Collection of glamorous
lingerie Kayser have introduced two new
fabrics: plisse (which resembles seer-
sucker) and nycelyon (a combination of
nylon and acetate, which also “breathes”).
A lovely nightgown in white plisse was
made with a tiered skirt rimmed with
pink ric-rac braid to match the shoulder-
straps. Of nycelyon was a tailored slip
which featured a fitted bra-top and the
hem-frill made of nylotux, which is
nylon finely tucked. A very novel idea
was a two-way half-slip. The top layer
was of pink nylon over blue nylon and
gave the slip an iridescent look. This was
to wear with a cotton frock of pink and
reversed blue. The majority of the night-
gowns had fitting bra-tops and those of
silk were trimmed either with lace or
nylotux.
One of the hits of the collection was a
pale-blue ballerina-length nightgown
which had deep godets of pale-beige
needierun-lace in the full short skirt. It
was worn under a matching negligee
which had a matching lace yoke and
push-up sleeves.
Batiste was another popular material
chosen for slips and half-slips. One
featured a lovely Swiss-embroidered
camisole-top (excellent for wear under
sheer blouse), and it was matched with a
deep frill at the hem. Blossom-pink silk
pyjamas had the jacket neatly tied at the
waist or was allowed to swing free, tom-
boy-fashion.
Gems of overseas fashions included a
half-slip to wear with the new slim-fitting
suit; the bra-top was of lace, and from
this fell a pleated peach-nylon slip to just
above the knees. With a slip under it, a
ballerina nightgown in finest white nylon,
printed with mint-green leaves, could
have been worn for dancing. And a wide
matching-green silk cummerbund made it
even more attractive.
☆ * <r
At the monthly luncheon of the Over-
seas League there was a showing of
“stills” and description of his recent
Antarctic explorations by Mr. P. G.
Law of the Department of External
Affairs. Brigadier Ronald Irving, presi-
dent of the league, was present with
Mrs. Irving. Guests included Mr. H. G.
Hay, from Iberia, Mrs. Law, Mrs. Fred
Dennett, Miss Sybil Irving, Colonel
Kathleen Best, Mrs. Robert Reid, Mrs.
W. Ree, Mrs. W. Seymour, and Miss
Ella Payne. At the next luncheon on
August 11 at Giro’s Dame Sybil Thorn-
dyke and her husband, Sir Lewis Casson,
will be guests-of-honor. It will also be
a reunion for league’s secretary, Thomas
Hudson, who was stage-director when
Shaw’s “Saint Joan” was produced at
the New Theatre, London, with Sir
Lewis Casson as director.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Caledonian setting of “Castle in
the Air,” the Spotlight production at the
Arrow Theatre, was pointed kilted
piper playing traditional airs in the foyer
on the opening night. Leading lady
Jessica Noad wore, seemingly without a
goose-pimple appearing—it was a bitterly
cold night—a gold lame evening gown,
strapless, and with the slim skirt extending
into a long train. In the audience were
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins and Lady
Collins, Minister for Labor and Immigra-
tion Harold Hplt and Mrs. Holt, Mr.
and Mrs. Tom Hollway, Mrs. Hermon
Gill (Esther Paterson —she had painted
the scenery), Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham, Mrs.
John Carrodus, Mrs. Dick Linton and
Mrs. Phyllis Nicholas.
Mrs. Iris Clarke, who is public-rela-
tions officer and funds-organiser for
Opportunity clubs, recently returned from
overseas, where she visited youth-clubs,
nursery-schools, Borstal institutions.
Approved schools and other organisa-
tions controlled by the Women’s Volun-
tary Services, whose president is the
Dowager Marchioness of Reading. Since
returning Mrs. Clarke organised the suc-
cessful Black-and-White dinner-dance
and the Wool Ball to be held in the
Roy ale Ballroom on August 2. John
Warlow photo.
Harold Grigg, a newcomer in the
fashion field, made news with his first
Collection, which he showed at a luncheon
in the Gloucester Room at the Australia.
These spring and summer frocks featured
cottons: Sea Island, cambrics, poplins
and corded-pique. Their crease-resisting
finish allied to delightful designs lent the
frocks a gay freshness. A number of the
cottons had a glossy finish, which made
them look like sleek satin. The prices
range from £5 12s. 6d. to £B.
Emphasis in style was on the teenager
and slim young woman, but Harold Grigg
wisely has made a number which give
to the large woman a slimming effect.
On several frocks the wide boat-neckline
finished with a crisp white pique collar
and ended effectively in a tie on one
shoulder. Some frocks had high necks
but with a deep V at the back ; other
styles had wide wing-collars which could
be worn two or three ways. A Bayadere
print with a gay Paris-street motif was
used to make a cotton frock, with un-
pressed box-pleated skirt, a wide up-
standing collar and set-in sleeves. A crisp
white corded pique patterned in red straw-
berries was of button-through style with
a U-shaped neckline.
Pastel-blue satin pique fashioned
another pretty frock with a softly-flared
skirt; the boat-neckline was of white
pique edged with white bobble-braid.
Crisp white pique was also used to make
a similar neckline on an attractive navy-
and-white-printed cotton frock.
In this collection an interesting material,
organdised voile (which is permanently
stiffened) was used in Harlequinade,
which was printed in ’gold and black
diamonds. With its peaked collar and
cuffs it could be worn both for street-
or party-wear. An interesting neckline
was featured on a cotton of charcoal
floral design on a soft-blue background.
The wide rolled collar, which was low
at the back, was caught with a bow of
the material.
☆ ☆ ☆
Majella, St. Kilda-road, was the set-
ting for the late-afternoon party given in
honor of the Belgian soprano Suzanne
Danco by the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra subscribers’ committee. Presi-
dent of the committee, Mr. P. Halliday,
received the guests, among whom were
Belgian Consul M. Vanderkelen, Dr. and
Mrs. Ivan Maxwell, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Menzies, Bonnie McCallum (in scarlet
velvet stole to match the small hat
she wore with a marine-blue frock), Mar-
jorie Tatnall (who wore with a suit of
black wool a black velvet cravat edged
with mink-tails), and the Jeffrey Schereks,
The guest-of-honor wore pink-and-white
candy-striped gloves, a pink scarf, a mink
coat and an osprey-embellished white
cloche.
SYDNEY
A few sunny days and the scent of
wattle brought a reminder to many
during the week that now is the time to
prepare to greet the spring. For there is
nothing blatant or crude about spring in
Sydney ; it is a matter for the connois-
seur. Indeed, if one is not on the qui
vive the whole season can shoot past one
unnoticed, so that it is quite possible
for one to wake up some morning to a
day of tempestuous summer heat and ask
oneself “What happened to the spring?
I didn’t see it go by.” But from now on
there will be many subtle hints to kfeep
one alerted; the first early daffodils this
week (15s. the dozen); those flowery
silks and nylons in the shop-windows ;
later, a touch of green on the poplars in
Bridge-street; a hint of hay-fever at the
end of August; soon an irresistible desire
to buy a new hat. All these are warn-
ings. “Watch out for spring—don’t miss
it this year.”
N. 8.: They say “Sydney in the autumn,
Melbourne in the spring, Canberra in
either season.” Where shall we go in
summer and winter?
• * ☆ ☆
Theatrical performers seem to be
streaming into Sydney from all direc-
tions at present. Allan Jones, who
apparently knows large numbers of songs
besides his famous “Donkey’s Serenade,”
is .at the Tivoli; Donald Peers is “on radio
and cinema”; drummer Buddy Rich and
comedian Jerry Colonna arrived from
America on Sunday, followed by band-
leader Artie Shaw and singer Ella Fitz-
gerald. These four, household words to
most of the youths and maidens of this
village, are to give seven concerts in
three days in Sydney, and it is expected
that the Stadium will be packed-out for
each concert. The Borovansky Ballet
members (70 in number) flew in from
Adelaide, and famous conductor Alceo
Galliera arrived for a nine-weeks tour
of Australia.
Judy Yardley, one of Australia’s
promising young pianists, has recently had
one of her piano-compositions published
by Nicholson’s. Sponsored by the Aus-
tralian Performing Rights Association,
the work is called “Fantasie.” Miss
Yardley is a Sydney girl and a graduate
of Sydney Conservatorium, but is now
living in Perth. Another of her works
shortly to be published is a number of
illustrated children’s pieces and will be
brought out by Allen’s of Melbourne.
It will be necessary for Sydneysiders
to prepare for a resurgence of “ballet
talk” and not to be astonished at hearing
in trams such remarks as “Those divine
entrechats, I worship them!” for these
will be quite normal now that the Boro-
vansky Ballet has begun its season at the
Empire. Three ballets new to its reper-
toire are to be presented: “Symphonic
Fantastique,” “Graduation Ball” and
“Prince Igor,” while “Candide” and
Pineapple Poll” (the latter based on Gil-
bert and Sullivan melodies) will be seen
' in Sydney for the first time.
i * ☆ *
There were four girls among the eight
finalists in the A.B.C.’s concerto and
vocal competition concert for 1954 last
Saturday night; Romola Constantino,
Judith Staff, Rachel Valler and Noelene
Thomson, and of these Judith Staff was
placed first in the vocal section, while
Rachel Valler was first in the concerto
section, so it was a great day for the
feminists. Eugene Goossens was unable
to conduct the concert, as he had had a
serious shock by falling from the rostrum
to the floor (about sft.) during the after-
noon rehearsal; but Joseph Post took
over at very short notice. One wondered
what the contestants thought when con-
certmaster Ernest Llewellyn spoke of Mr.
Post’s agreeing “to help the children” by
doing this.
* ft *
Martin-place was drab and wet on the
night of the Jewel Ball held last week in
aid of Legacy, and a touch of excitement
was added to the occasion by the uni-
formed policemen and plain-clothes men
who stood ominously round the entrance
to Prince’s Restaurant. (The “plain
clothes,” by the way, were those pale rain-
coats and felt hats which have become
the uniforms of detectives on the films).
But downstairs all was brilliance and
glitter, especially in that corner of the
foyer where model Elyane Evrard was
being photographed for the newsreel in
black velvet and £30,000-worth of dia-
monds.
Mrs. Fred Kirkby, wife of the presi-
dent of the ball-committee, wore with her
blue flock-organza dress drop-earrings
and a pendant with a 10-carat diamond.
Mrs. Keith Walsh, whose dress was white
tulle with a lace polonaise and a large
pink bow, also wore a lovely pendant
of diamonds and Indian sapphires, and
entertained a large party with her hus-
band, who is president of the Retail
Jewellers’ Association. Among those pre-
sent were Mr. and Mrs. Bill Messenger,
Mr. and Mrs. R. Marks, Mr. and Mrs.
A. W. Rouse, Mr. and Mrs. Albert Lewin
and Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Davis,
☆ fc ☆
The interesting tapestry which was
recently shown by the Country Women’s
Association at the National Art Gallery
is on display again, from July 20 till July
30, this time at David Jones’ George-
street store. The tapestry, which consists
of 18 different medallions worked in petit-
point, shows various aspects of the work
done by women during World War II
and has been lent to the C.W.A. by its
sister-organisation, the National Federa-
tion of Women’s Institutes in England. It
is an impressive piece of work, 15ft. by
9ft., weighing 471 b. and containing
2,000,000 stitches.
* ☆ ☆
»
Sailing by Strathaird for a 12-months’
visit to Europe is Miss Ellen Glavin,
well-known as a teacher of modern
languages at Sydney Girls’ High School
for the past five years and before that at
Newcastle and Bathurst. Miss Glavin
will take up a similar position at Skinner’s
School for Girls, London, and hopes to
visit France, Germany, Switzerland and
Italy during her stay abroad.
* ☆ *
The exhibition held last year of Monte
Luke’s photographs of “Beautiful Brides”
proved so popular that another has been
arranged to be opened today (Wednes-
day) by Mrs. Douglas Dundas at David
Jones’ Walk Gallery. It is called “More
Beautiful Brides” and will continue until
July 31.
* * *
Mdsman Musical Society will stage
“Rose Marie” from July 23 to July 30.
It will be the society’s 144th in successive
production in 51 years of amateur
musical presentations on the North Shore.
The leading role will be played by Helen
Acton.
☆ ☆ *
Donald Peers, the Welsh singer of
40 summers who makes the teenagers
swoon, is in Australia for six months,
during which he will be heard on radio
and in personal appearances at cinemas.
After seeing him at a radio-recording
during the week, this Letter came to the
conclusion that his popularity is due
mainly to the way he makes everyone
feel that they can sing, too. It seems so
easy when he does it, and his unassum-
ing friendliness breaks down shyness and
embarrassment.


The name is
fD c Calliim’s
the whisky is
Scots OJhisky
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC2I/3.2.
Have you tried
*.ALBANY?
The cigarette
CLAIRE BLOOM
would offer you..
Who says cigarettes don’t have personality?
Not Albany smokers! They will tell you that Albany have
a subtle difference which sets them apart. It’s not idle
chance which leads that
well - known personality,
Glaire Bloom, to smoke
—and to offer —these
mild and flavor-
fu 1 cigarettes.
SsS
mm
,49 FULL OF CHARACTER AS THE PEOPLE WHO SMOKE THEM
CORK OR
FILTER
TIPPED
F. L. Smith Ltd., Burlington
Gardens, Old Bond Street*
London, W.l.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Acis and Galatea”
Sydney University’s Pro
Musica Society presented
Handel’s “Acis and Galatea” as
a cantata, as is the custom,
though it seems to have been
done originally with costume and
scenery; but they got close to
the original orchestration, even
doctoring a piano to sound like
a harpsichord. Handel himself
seems to have been pushed to
imitative, but more strictly
musical, devices to supplement
the musical resources of his
patron, the Duke of Chandos ;
he got trumpet-effects front a
conjunction of oboes, recorders
and strings, a thing you would
hardly believe unless you heard
it, and you would hafdly hear it
elsewhere than at such a per-
formance as this.
The strict observance of all
Handel’s repeats and da capos
would have been more proper to
a virtuoso-performance than to
one where it was more wonderful
that the thing should be done
at all than that it should be done
twice; but the youth and
enthusiasm of the chorus and
the conductor, Peter Platt, and
especially the keenness and bite
of the little orchestra, called upon
the imagination to meet them
half-way; it was a delight to
discover such well-worn concert-
arias as “Love in her eyes sits
playing,” “As when the dove
laments her love” and “O ruddier
than the cherry” in their proper
home ; and it needed no imagina-
tion to be moved by the greatness
of Handel in their vehement
rendition of the lament for Acis,
“Mourn, all ye Muses,” or to be
charmed by the orchestra’s
pastoral, in which the twittering
of Trevor Jones’s sopranino
recorder protested against
Margaret Moore’s air, “Hush, ye
pretty warbling choir.”
Scene and costume would have
given the piece more unity ; until
the trio towards the end, where'
the giant Polypheme (Kenneth
Long) brains the Shepherd Acis
(Alan Ferris) with a gibber, a
concert-performance makes little
suggestion of play or action. Mr.
Long’s bass was more fine than
gigantic, and how he managed
to lay-out so robust a tenor as
Mr. Ferris Handel only knows.
As Galatea, Miss Moore went
on further to liquidate her dead
lover by changing him to a river
that flowed charmingly in song
and orchestra. Allan Gamble,
tenor, asked questions and gave
advice in two of Handel’s any-
thing-but-simple airs, and Grace
Clayton made, herself a little
triumph with her high, delicate
piping of “Consider, fond
Shepherd, how fleeting’s the
pleasure that flatters our hope in
pursuit of the fair,” with runs
and decorations as sweet and
evanescent as their subject.
❖ ❖ *
“Don Juan in Hell”
Franquin is hypnotising rela-
tively good houses every night at
Melbourne Princess, while G. B.
Shaw, for two nights, hypnotised
very small ones at the Assembly
Hall.
Peter O’Shaughnessy’s enter-
prise was unique in the theatrical
history of Melbourne, his subject-
matter being the reading without
stage trappings of 20 pages of the
dialogue between Don Juan, the
Donna Anna, her father and the
Devil from “Man and Super-
man.” Approximately 20 people
and half a dozen critics supped at
the banquet of Shaw’s wit and
wisdom on the first night, and
perhaps 40 people on the second,
although it was magnificently
presented.
Probably that was because
Shaw, like Bertrand Russell, was
one of those writers who speak
to the head and not the heart,
unlike Chekhov, who spoke to
the heart and not the head. The
way Chekhov could make a thing
live was amazing. He makes
you feel without thinking: Shaw
makes you think without feeling
—he couldn’t make things live
like Chekhov. So, if you are not
given overmuch to thinking you
might just as well go jump in the
lake as listen to this closely knit
argument on love, life, death,
marriage and the Life Force,
although it was extremely well
done by all parties.
As the philosophising ©on
Juan, Peter O’Shaughnessy spoke
his lines with just the right
amount of emphasis to bring out
the meaning, Shirley Smith as
the Donna Anna was a bit more
passionate about hers and Robert
Sterling, as the military father,
was the epitome of everything
Shaw most disliked. Frank
Gatliff, as the Devil, was suitably
romantic.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Faust”
Gounod’s opera had the first
two acts telescoped to save time
in the National Opera’s Sydney
production, otherwise it was
traditional except for a few
details. Marguerite, for
instance, dispensed with waist-
length plaits in favor of
shoulder-length blonde hair.
And in the Scene of the Swords,
Mephistopheles, cowering before
the crosses formed by the up-
raised sword-handles of Valentine
and his brother-soldiers, merely
drops his sword. European pro-
ducers use the more effectively
dramatic device of the frustrated
Mephistopheles whirling his
sword, its point near the floor, to
form a wide circle inside which
none dare enter, and this is often
a circle of fire.
Alick McKenzie’s decor was
quite effective in the Study scene,
the Kermesse scene and in the
prison. The Garden scene, pivot
of the opera, and its natural
showpiece, could have been more
florally spectacular, but other-
wise it was well-conceived. The
Church scene seemed to be set
half-in and half-out of the
church. The setting is properly
outside, with Mephistopheles
appearing in a pillar—in this case
he seemed to be suspended on a
ladder in one of a series of
Moorish arches.
The costumes were excellent,
with that of Mephistopheles
richly scarlet, dominating the
others. In this role Alan Light
was always a commanding figure,
his emphasis more on the
sardonic than the satanic. His
singing of the cynical “Calf of
Gold” and the raffish “Cavatina”
was admirable.
Neil Easton was a virile
Valentine, and his singing of
“Even Bravest Heart” was a
model of resonance and judg-
ment. Ronald Dowd in the
title-role was off-pitch early,
when he had to battle with a too-
loosely-held orchestra as well as
.with temptation. , But later he
improved, and he took the high
C in his apostrophe to
Marguerite’s dwelling with con-
fidence.
Tais Taras made an, attractive
Marguerite, -but once again her
high notes on full volume caught
a jarring edge. In softer passages
she was quite acceptable.
Heather Begg was a twittering
duenna, and Jacqueline Talbot as
Siebel sang the “Flower Song”
nicely.
Choruses had good tone and
weight, with the “Soldiers’
Chorus” outstanding. The Waltz
from the Kermesse scene was
lilting, but there was insufficient
animation for this, the one gay
and carefree spot in the opera.
Only two danced it, the rest
merely jigging. The scene de-
manded much more spontaneous
gaiety.
Eugene Goossens kept his
orchestral forces in check after
the first act with benefit to all.
❖ « ♦♦♦
Suzanne Banco
The Belgian soprano included
in her final Sydney recital Schu-
mann’s splendid song - cycle
“Woman’s Life and Love.”
The interpretative demands
made by these eight songs are
severe. The poems by Chamisso
are most delicately spun, and
Schumann’s settings capture
their shy spirit completely. The
singer weighed the varying
emotions with fine judgment.
The piano epilogue was given
most eloquently by Raymond
Lambert.
For the rest of the programme
the audience had little but bleak-
ness, for it included some of the
most acidulous song-writing of
Darius Milhaud and Ravel.
❖ ❖ , ❖
“Knights of Laughter”
Sydney Tiv.’s current bill —a
good-’un by any standards —has
for its centrepiece the engaging
voice and personality of Allan
Jones, who makes a very pleas-
ant and entertaining business of
a string of songs, ranging from
“The Stars Were Brightly Shin-
ing,” from “Tosca,” to “The
Piano-Roll Blues,” and taking in
a delightful little ditty about
“Madelon” and, of course, “The
Donkey’s Serenade.”,
Mr. Jones gives every indica-
tion of enjoying his songs, and
the audience appears to enjoy
them even more —they thump,
yell and applaud and would
probably keep him singing all
night if circumstances per-
mitted.
One of the circumstances
which precludes that happening
is Harry Jacobson, who plays
the piano in half a dozen dif-
ferent popular “styles” and
almost confuses the audience
into believing there are two
pianos on the stage with his
impression of Ivor Moreton and
Dave Kay ; another is comedian
Roy Barbour, spearpoint of the
evening’s humor.
Further circumstances include
the Chadells, who provide some
pleasant comedy with their acro-
batics, and the Myrons, who
appear to be in such deadly
earnest with their balancing feats
that the orchestra cringes down
in its pit in fear of the mon-
strous and beautifully chromed
equipment towering above it.
Bouna is an apparently bone-
less, india-rubber individual who
ties himself into knots that no
sailor ever dreamed of; Mar-
garet Brown a tap-dancer with
Spanish overtones; and Kerry
Vaughan the evening’s compere
—a kind of humorous, glamor-
ous additive who peps up the
ignition considerably.
The ballet is, as always, a
delightfully disturbing demon-
stration of synchronised pulchri-
tude.
Artbursts
Following the successful com-
petition conducted by the Mel-
bourne Yorick Club last year, a
prize of 50gns. is again being
offered for a watercolor which
will become the property of the
club. Daryl Lindsay and William
Dargie will be judges of the
competition, which will be held in
mid-September, and entries will
be on show from September 20.
Winner last year was Peg Tremill
for a watercolor of Fitzroy
Gardens.
Talkies
“Hobson’s Choice”
This perfectly told English
comedy, set in a Lancashire town
at the turn of the century, could
well be the best of the year. The
tale is a good one and it is
superbly directed by David
Lean; the character-drawing is
excellent.
Charles Laughton, as a
widower trying to act the tyrant
with his three unmarried
daughters, gives one of his best
performances ; Jolyi Mills, as his
cowed boot-factory employee,
develops the role to rebellion
with admirable skill; and new-
comer Brenda de Banzie, as the
eldest daughter, leads the revolt.
All the subsidiary characters ring
true. At Sydney Embassy.
“Le Plaisir” (Sydney Savoy):
A French production by Max
Ophuls of three Maupassant
short stories. They are all ex-
quisitely acted, but the subjects
of two of them—“Le Masque”
and “La Modele” —responsive
though they may have been to
the Maupassant touch, respond
so poorly to film treatment that
they seem hardly worth the
making. The third, “La Maison
Tellier,” comes up better,
though perhaps a shade too sen-
timental to accord with the spirit
in which it was written.
• • • •
“Hondo” (Sydney Plaza):
This latest report on the West
has John Wayne as a dust- and
sweat-streaked character who
survives by the speed of his gun
and the toughness of his
philosophy, and Geraldine Page
as the wife of a settler who is
the victim of various vices, and,
finally, of Mr. Wayne’s gun.
There are bouts of diplomacy
and violence with the Indians —
led by a suitably bedaubed
Michael Pate —and hints of a
realism which suggest that the
film is not quite so good as
whatever story inspired it.
* * * •
“Gun Fury” (Sydney
Lyceum): A Western with a
better-than-average plot and
people who work it out without
overstatement.


a death in the town
by John Fountain
“7" HE Major walks down the
S hill, swinging his
V j umbrella, the red-setter
bitch at his heels.
To all Toomalong he is the
Major; has been ever since he
came back from the Kaiser’s
war, with that rank. In a later
war he was a full-colonel but,
somehow, nobody in Toomalong
ever got round to calling him
“Colonel.” He had been the
Major too long.
He is not the sort of figure you
would expect to see in Tooma-
long, which, for all its mountain
charm, is off the main road, away
from the main current of things.
There isn’t even a railway. See
him now, marching down from
his house, at the top of the hill,
twirling his tightly-rolled black
umbrella. Grey homburg, boned
tan shoes that reflect the light of
a shy, sunny, early-spring day
(the sky blue, a tent of glorious
blue over the willows of Stony
Creek, but grey guy-ropes pulled
over the golf-links, rain over the
brooding, eucalypt-dark hills),
faultless dark-grey suit, a pink
carnation. Tie, sober, matching
the socks. Linen, white, dazzling
white at collar and cuffs, hand-
kerchief a blaze of white shoot-
ing up from the top pocket...
A stern, handsome face, carved
by a sculptor with a taste for
dramatic angles, deep bites of the
chisel. The old maestro. Life,
working on hard material. Out
of this magnificent reddish
hardness, blue, very blue eyes
look straight ahead. The eye-
brows are thick and fiery-red.
The hair under the grey hat is
red, too, but thin, darkened by a
fixative of the odorless kind, and
brushed till it shines; except at
the temples. The close-cropped
moustache is more grey than
red.
But suddenly all that grim,
concentrated tenseness loosens,
breaks up, dissolves in a warm
smile. “Good - morning.
Sergeant.”
The man in leggings and
sports-coat, thoughtfully look-
ing at a small British car outside
the police-station, turns round:
“Good - morning. Major.” He
looks pleased.
There is something dramatic to
the Major’s smile, the sergeant
thinks. His smile and his
courtesy—the charm of the
unexpected, a touch of the
fantastic. It is such a contrast —
not the fine manners, so much,
but the warmth, the simplicity—
to everything promised by the
hard, fighting face, the high,
proud look. It is like discover-
ing a Viking nursing the baby,
or making the acquaintance of a
very distinguished, but formid-
able, beast, and having him
change into a good-n # atured
prince before your eyes. *What
a confidence-man he would
make, thinks the sergeant. That
fairy-tale quality would get them
in . . .
Not to mention his record.
The Major isn’t one of those
small-town prodigies—a doctor,
lawyer, newspaper-editor—who
would be a genius if he didn't
drink, only he is so seldom sober.
But there are no “ifs” about the
Major’s record. It is there, in
black-and-white, in the Official
War History. Of the First War,
that is. That monumental work
isn’t exactly compulsory reading
for schoolchildren in Tooma-
long, but nearly anyone can
quote the piece about the Major,
practically word-perfect . . ,
“Nice bit of sun we’re getting
this morning, eh, Major?”
The sergeant is a strong man,
but he doesn’t look it. He has
a short, brown, pleasantly ugly
face, a vaguely foolish smile,
contradicted by the intelligence
shining in prominent, light-brown
eyes. He is always easy and
relaxed, as though in the act of
leaning against something. Just
now he is leaning against the
brown - painted, spear - pointed
fence outside the police-station.
“Lovely,” says the Major
heartily. “Really lovely, after all
that rain. Tell me”—he looks at
the sergeant keenly—“how is
young Teale shaping?”
The sergeant reaches into the
hip-pocket of his riding-breeches,
extracts a round tin, begins to
roll a cigarette. His sunny brown
eyes never leave the Major’s
face: “Well, now, there’s only
one thing wrong, with young
Teale. He wants to be Commis-
sioner of Police.”
“Bill Jones was telling me”
“I know. I know. Last night,
at the Royal. He rubs the locals
up the wrong way. That stand-
over attitude won’t do him any
good here. It’s a challenge to
their manhood, the way they
look at it... I blame the Army.”
. “The Army?” The Major
looks down his nose.
“Yes. He didn’t see any action,
but they pounded discipline into
him. With a certain type of
young fellow, that’s bad. He
thinks the world’s like that.”
The Major scratches his chin,
screws up his vivid blue eyes.
“Ye-es. I think I see what you
mean.”
“Mind you, he’s no fool.
Smart, really. But he’s mad
keen on rules and regulations.
They taught him unarmed
combat, too, and underneath that
plum-in-the-mouth correctness
he’s itching to have a go at
someone.”
The Major’s red eyebrows
shoot up: “Perhaps —or —Jim
Bailey ...” he hints.
The sergeant shakes his head:
“No. If it went too far I’d have
to lay a charge.”
The Major sighs. “Pity. Be a
good fight.”
VX/EARYING of. the conversa-
* ' tion the red bitch hunt-
ing cats. She works zigzag,
across the road, back, nose to the
ground, feathered tail out, coat
blazing patchily in the shy morn-
ing sunlight. She’s a great gun-
dog, the Major’s Bess, but she’s a
bit thin now ; pups just taken off
her, teats, drying-off, swinging
below the silken belly.
The two men fall silent, watch-
ing the traffic. First, Tommy
Catkin, with his two wives, a
row of rabbits swinging under
the sulky. He greets the two
great men of Toomalong with a
cheerful wave of his greenhide
whip, a broad, gap-toothed smile.
They nod, curtly. Everyone is
friendly with everyone else in
Toomalong, and they, the soldier
and the policeman, are men of
the world. Still . . . Two
wives . . .
They watch the yellow back
of the sulky, the swinging rabbits,
the dirty, stumpy terrier and
the lean, limping, brindle
kangaroo-dog: the three intimate
heads. A bit of a mystery, that.
Smith the soldier-settler tears
up in his new car. He slows
down when he sees the two
figures, the tall, erect one and the
lounging one in leggings, outside
the police-station. He leans out
and grins, waving a beefy hand.
This greeting, too, is returned
with a certain reserve.
The Major is all for soldier-
settlement. As he pointed out,
early in the piece, closer-settle-
ment had to come. Toomalong
was landlocked. Also, he said,
looking down at the serious,
listening faces: the Skinners, the
Donovans, the Huttons and Mc-
Phersons —all the old families —
it was one of those schemes that
would have a lot of opposition,
unconscious opposition, maybe,
but opposition, all the same, poli-
tical realities, snags, below the
surface of patriotic feeling, the
froth of fine words ... Country-
party supporters, the big men,
wouldn’t be too keen if they
were likely to lose their land ;
Labor-party heads, if they were
farsighted, would know that if
you give a Labor voter a good
block of land, in a couple of
years he wouldn’t be voting
Labor , . .
It was the only faintly political
speech he had ever made, and
he was never asked to make
another. The politician who had
invited him looked surprised, and
there was some agitated whisper-
ing, up there on the platform.
But anything the Major has to
say carries a lot of weight in
Toomalong.
On the personal level, the
Major has never become recon-
ciled to the new faces. Some of
their owners, good chaps. Others
—well, a little nouveau riche,
perhaps. That fellow Smith . . .
A wool-cheque of £30,000 last
year; and, before the war, a
rouseabout. Naturally, he
splashes it around a bit. Some
of them, too, although they are
ex-servicemen within the mean-
ing of the Act, didn’t see action.
The Major doesn’t agree with
that.
Ah, well. Other days, other
ways. The Major glances at the
sergeant. He can understand a
zealous constable being a
nuisance. The sergeant doesn’t
stick slavishly to regulations. He
makes ’em. The pubs close at
10 p.m. (the official hour is six),
the s.-p. bookmakers toe the line.
Any nonsense —and back to the
letter-of-the-law. He can get
away with it because he is incor-
ruptible. So jealous of his reputa-
tion he won’t have a drink, off-
duty. When he feels like a drink
he goes to Hammock. He’ll die
poor.
He’s an autocrat, the sergeant.
Not, perhaps, from the depart-
mental point of view, a good
policeman, but by his own, and
the Major’s, standards, a success.
There is very little crime in
Toomalong, and even the mis-
demeanors fit in with the
character t>f the place.
That character is as colorful
and striking, in its way, as the
Major’s. For one thing, they are
patriotic—very. But they are
patriotic in their individual way.
Enlistments, in War 11, were
remarkable, per head of popula-
tion. On the other hand, when
Nugget Brown, after the Middle
East and New Guinea, got fed-
up with the Army and resigned,
the town presented a united
front to the provosts sent after
him.
They drink a lot, too.
TVESS is back, whining, nudging
him with her remarkable
nose. Enough’s enough, says
Bess. Besides, there are no
cats . . .
“Florrie Cassidy’s maintenance
come through?” asks the Major.
The sergeant draws on his
diminishing cigarette. “Not yet.
I’ll let you know when it does.
Or rather”—he glances slyly at
the Major—“l’ll tell Teale to.”
He nods at the car. “I’m going
in half an hour. All set.”
“Fishing?” The Major was a
keen fisherman, once.
“Well, in a manner of speak-
fishing. Or hunting.” The
sergeant says mysteriously. “I’m
off to Albury. Special duty.”
“Seconded, eh?” The Major
pricks up his- ears. “Come on.
Sergeant,” he prompts genially,
“what’s up your sleeve?”
“Well ...” The sergeant
lowers his voice. “This is con-
fidential?”
“Naturally,” the Major says
stiffly.
“Of course,” hastily, “I know
that. Major. But . . . it’s really
secret. Not even Teale knows.
It’s only knowing you under-
stand security . . . normally, I
wouldn’t dream of telling a
civilian . :. ”
“Get on with it, man,” the
Major says impatiently. He
doesn’t enjoy being called a
civilian.
“We’ve got a line on Blackall,”
the sergeant blurts out, and leaves
it at that.
“Pooh! Is that all? The
police have had clues for the last
six weeks. He still robs banks.”
“No,” the sergeant insists.
“This time we’ve got him. Like
this.” He opens his hand and
shuts it. “We know how he
works. Everything. In a couple
of days we’ll have him. They’re
drawing all the police they can
spare to Albury, from both sides
of the border. A net.”
“Really?”
The Major is interested.
Everyone who reads the papers
is interested in Colin Blackall,
the bank-robber, the latter-day
Ned Kelly. The police of two
States are looking for him. For
his gang, too. But it is Blackall
himself who has captured the
public imagination. He'isn’t an
ordinary criminal. He had no
criminal record at all until
suddenly, spectacularly, he began
his raids on banks in widely
separated parts of Victoria and
N.S.W. In Melbourne one week,
in Sydney the next. He’s robbed
country banks, too —Tamworth,
Orange, Wagga.
Nothing has been heard of
him for a couple of weeks now.
Capture, of course, is inevitable.
But he is giving them a run for
their money. Sympathy has
turned against him, too, since he
shot the policeman in Melbourne.
The Major is interested. In the
first place, as a problem in
guerrilla warfare, logistics. Any-
thing military fascinates the
Major. Even in court, if he isn’t
watched, he is capable of cross-
examining a man exhaustively,
just to find out what it was like
being a commando on Timor, a
pilot over Berlin. He’s had his
clashes with magistrates and
judges over this.
On the other hand, there are
times when his beating-about-the-
bush technique scares surprising
facts out of a bush, a scrub, a
regular jungle of charges and
counter - charges, interposed
witnesses, contradictory evidence.
The roan-bullock case was like
that, involving two local families
and a deal of bitter feeling. In
such a case, naturally, a lot
depends on the credibility of
witnesses, and of these the most
impressive was a stranger, a
cattle-buyer. His war service
was brought up —he mentioned
it himself —and, naturally, the
Major was interested. Very, He
kept pounding away—question
and answer, question-answer—
relentlessly courteous, a little old-
fashioned.
Only a small thing, a transfer
from one unit to another, and
anyone else, even with the regi-
mental particulars before him,
would hardly notice it. But it
was enough for the Major to
make that tiny rent in the fabric
of the witness’s story, establish
a moral ascendancy . . , The
tear ran.
The Major is interested, too,
because Blackall has been a
soldier—a good one. He feels a
queer sympathy for the hunted,
desperate fellow, tearing about
the country, the net closing
around him. The Major has an
acute curiosity concerning
motives. What drove the respect-
able insurance-salesman of
thirty-five into that mad career?
Lust for action? Greed for
money? What could he do with
the money, anyway? Did he.
hope to get out of the country?
“Really?” repeats the Major.
The sergeant nods. “Yes. It’s
a three-car system. Car One
pulls in, cases the bank. Reports.
Then goes to a sort of observa-
tion-point. Car Two pulls in,
does the job to a deadline, makes
the getaway, and goes to a
rendezvous with Car Three. This
is the real getaway car. Car Two,
stolen, anyway, is abandoned.
But —and here’s the point—Car
One, a legitimately registered car,
mind you, is in contact with Car
Three all the time”
“How?” The Major is excited.
Under the red eyebrows the blue
eyes gleam.
“Walkie-talkie sets. Disposals
stock.”
“Go on! ”
“Well, that’s the basic pattern.
It varies slightly. Probably a
chain of getaway cars, some-
times. There must be a string
of accomplices. There’s the
weakness —how we know. One
of them talked. We weren’t
prepared for anything like that,
of course. Now we’re
organised. He’s going to have a
crack at the Bank of N.S.W. in
Albury. When he does ...” The
sergeant smiles.
“I see.” The Major’s blue eyes
are watching a hawk hovering
in the melting blue distance.
“Yes, I see how it was done.”
~ This time Bess is insistent.
She mauls his knife-edge-creased
trousers with a muddy paw.
HIS head full of bank-robbers,
cavalry tactics, mobile intel-
ligence, the Major comes to the
turnoff, where the Hammock
(i Continued on page 22}


GOVT. DISPOSALS
TYRES NEW TYRES
LESS THAN truck - HALF PRICE
BAR TREAD SPECIAL COMMERCIAL TREAD
WE CARRY A VERY LARGE STOCK OF AUTO SPARES, INC. /
RADIATOR ASS. PAN BEETS, CYLINDER HEADS, ETC.
*****
It
750x18x10 ply £l9/19/- Com
1050x16x12 ply £25 Com. Bar.
900x16x10 ply £22/10/- Bar
1000x22x12 ply £22/10/- Bar
900x15x14 ply £25/-/- Com.
900x18x10 ply £l9/-/- Com.
Note: These tyres are in perfect
condition and are but a fraction
of the list price.
Also we carry the largest stock
of second-hand and new aero,
tractor, truck and car tyres in
Australia.
Enquiries, ring MX3954.
Spring Cart Dray and Waggon
Wheels
Spring Cart and Waggon Wheels, second-hand.
Also Army Wheels.
Small Light Waggon Wheels and Axle, £lO oomplete.l
Spring Cart Wheels and Axle, complete, £l2.
Waggon Wheels, heavy, £4 pair.
Military Wheels, 3ft. Bin. high, £6 pair.
We also stock felloes and spokes.
Tip Dray Wheels and Axle, £lO pair.
We also stock shafts of all kinds.
BRAND NEW EX-ARMY HAMMOCK
Or can be used as a Stretcher Cover. Made from heavy
quality Jute, 10ft. 3in. x 2ft. Sin. 11 Eyelets either side.
Keinforced. 3 ropes llin. long. A first-class buy.
19/6 each. PoBt 3/6 extra -
TOOL BOXES
Wooden
30 x 10 x 10,
10/- each.
Steel
IS "v 12 v 9.
10/- each.
SHOP
ŵ
HORSE RUGS
Brand new. , Heavy-duty canvas
lined with ex-Army blankets.
All sizes, and complete with
fittings. The cheapest best
quality horse rug in Australia.
Price, all sizes,
£5
WOMEN'S SHOWERPROOF
BRAND NEW
Gaberdine Raincoats
ẁ
TAILOR
MADE
Single breasted,
shoulder pads,
complete with belt.
Women’s size only.
Price
39/6
Post 3/6 extra
ft
HA
*sL
LINOLEUM
OILCLOTH
6/- "per yard, 721 n. wide.
Ideal weekend, boarding-
houses. Colors, brown and
burgundy.
EX-ARMY INTERNATIONAL FRONT END
SUSPENSION AXLE (No Stubs)
4O/-each
Many uses. Forged steel.
Brand new
w
1050x20
1000x20
900x20
825x20
750x20
700x20
EB/10A
SET.
II til
650 x 16 £5 SET
600 x 16 .. .. .. £5 SET
JIANP
RUST BAN
307-
DRUM
Atlantic Brand Bust Ban Oil.
Four gal. drums only. Price,
30/- drum.
FOLDING STRETCHERS
TUBULAR STEEL
Suitable for
shearers’ sheds. Diamond wire,
every bed guaranteed.
Priced at £2/10/- each
' GOOD CONDITION
TABLES EX-ARMY
Good condition. Mess type, with
stools attached. Ideal for large
families, shearers, caterers, etc.
Incomparable value, m 1A /
Size 7ft. x 3ft. Price 1 W
6ft, x 3ft. folding leg table, £3
"Moltex" Roofing
72ft. x Bft. rolls. Used for
sheds, flat roofs, etc.
£3 per Roll
wc. wj/iy #
OIL PAINJ
OIL
BASE
GUARANTEED OIL
BASE PAINT
Colours only Earth, Dark Grey,
Green and Chocolate. Earth,
Grey and Green in sgal. Choco-
late in 4gal. This paint is an
ideal first coat or undercoat.
All well-known brands.
Set Five Brand New
Pure Bristle
PAINT BRUSHES
Set in Rubber
Sizes, 4in., 3in., 3in., IJin., lln.
Price 35/- set
Post 3/6 extra
Painter's Drop Sheefs
Made from medium quality
Duck or Cloth, n a /| a/
Size, 18 x 12. each *rt/ lw/
Billabong and Simac
Horizontal Type Pump
IMn. Inlet and liin. Delivery at
a half price. 3in. diameter, 41n.
stroke. Brand new cast-iron
with wooden handle. Never been
used.
Our Price m/17/6
MATTRESS
Ex-Army heavy duty fibre mat-
tress with brand new desouth
Mattress Cover to suit.
bed size. only. Price qO /L
the two ' °
Rubber Tyred Bogey Wheel.
Off Bren Gun Carrier. Height,
20in., width, 3Jin. Rubber 3in.
thick. Complete with Roller
SX £9 P«'f
Soldering
Flux
EX-ABMY
3 for 5/6
1 Pint Tins.
Requires no
acid, etc.
Apply
straight to
the job.
OERI f
LUX
! WIDER!
IDERj
LU
ta
Electrodes
Citrooord Brand.
MOST
6/9
In packages or boxes. 8 and
in o-oii tro. o-Annrn.l miroose rod.
GYPROCK
WALL AND CEILING
BOARDS
m
s
Oft. long by 2ft. wide. PRICE 8/6 per SHEET
New ex-Army Release. Unlimited Storks Available.
In crates of 15 or 50 sheets. Packed ready for despatch on
country orders.
FLY SCREEN
WIRE
BRAND NEW
Roll lots only
100 ft. Rolls
Roll lots only
24in., 40/-
3 Oin., 50/-
36in., 60/-
Black Curved
EX-ARMY IRON
Size in 10ft. only
Price 1/- per foot
Size Oft. and 7ft. at
lOd. per foot
This iron is suitable for
poultry farmers, piggeries,
farm sheds, etc.
W
CORRUGATED FIBRO
ROOFING
Asbestos Corrugated Roof-
ing. Sizes Bft. x 3ft. 6in.
Second grade, slightly
damaged, 13/6 sheet. First
grade, sizes Bft. x 3ft. 6in.
Has been used. Condition
perfect, and the price is £1
per sheet. This is the big
corrugation.
No Mail Orders with this
line —fragile. Stocks are unlimited, and it can be inspected
at our large storeroom, 172-178 Castlereagh Street, Rediern.
Definitely no Mail Orders with this line.
w
EX-ARMY TWO HOLE
COOKER
Ideal for out-door cooking,
barbecues, etc.
SOLID STEEL
Price 10/- each
m
w
ex-army
GIGGLE JACKETS
m
mi
7\
Laundered. Men’s size only.
A good working jacket. Long
or short sleeves.
Price 9/6 each
Post 2/6 extra
FLYING SUITS
EX-B.A.A.F. Plying Suits.
Condition good but a little
stiff through storing. Water-
proof, all-weather suit with
zippered front, sleeves and
legs, fur lined pockets. 20
only at the ridiculous price of
£3/10/- each
Post 4/6 extra. Be early.
3
%
BATTLE
JACKETS
Ex-Army
Woollen.
Brand new.
Men’s Sizes
Only.
A first-class
winter buy.
Price
39/6
eacia
Post 3/6
extra
brand new
Blacksmith TONGS
forged sxeee
ŵw
Bandolier
Ex-Army, leather, 8
pouches. 0/||
Price, each “/ • •
TARPAULINS TARPAULINS
EX-ARMY HEAVY DUTY TARPAULINS
Size 30 x 20, £3O. 18 x 24, £22/10/-. 18 x 12, £l2/10/-.
10 x 12, £lO. Every tarp overhauled and repaired if
necessary. Save money. Only heaviest quality
canvas used.
please ass* ™ s
Add Eaeh™*? to Cheques. When delivered al Sllta* please add Freteht
KING'S
ẁ
gadcUefaj
LEATHER GOODSTYRES
GENERAL MERCHANTS
122-124 Devonshire St.
Sydney
% few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station
i rew no 7691 _ mx 3954. After hours only: MX 1269
Ex-Military
Eeggings (leather).
Medium sizes only.
Price 10/6 pair
mm
eH
*
oi
#*>
mi
but
Ex-Army Cutlery
9d. each or 7/6 doz.
ALL STEEL


BRINGS A NEW ERA TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
m.
IT ENABLES
BABCOCK TO
MANUFACTURE
Welded Pressure Vessels
IN LARGER SIZES AND FOR HIGHER
PRESSURES THAN ANY OTHER PLANT
IN AUSTRALIA
Babcock’s recent extension to their 28 acre plant
site at Regents Park, N.S.W., is the new building
which houses, amongst other equipment, the
largest Stress Relieving Furnace in Australia.
This building now gives Babcock greater capacity
than any other Australian manufacturer for the
production of fusion welded Class I boiler drums
and other welded pressure vessels. Special new
equipment in operation comprises heavy presses,
heating furnaces, automatic welding machines,
400,000 volt x-ray machine and a metallurgical
laboratory. Babcock & Wilcox pioneered the
production of fusion welded pressure vessels in
1931 at their Renfrew works, Scotland, in
association with The Babcock & Wilcox Co. of
U.S.A., and the experience gained in this special
technique is now available in the products manu-
factured in the Regents Park Works.
Babcock fusion welded pressure vessels can be manufac-
tured, and supplied, to Lloyd’s Class 1 requirements, and
to meet other Standard Specifications, such as B.S. 1113 and
1,500, and also the AS 4 M.EA.P.1.-A.SM.E., and S*A*A.
Codes.
BABCOCK & WILCOX OF AUSTRALIA
" PTY. LIMITED
Head Office and Works: Regenfs Park, N.S.W.
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
■ INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Industry
No. 4 of a Series
IT
Waste lSlgt f
Want A lot
When an 1.C.1. Research
Worker produces a new
chemical compound, it may
turn out quite unsuitable
for its intended purpose
say, a dyestuff. But that
does not always mean that
the compound is useless.
To make sure that nothing
is wasted, nearly all new
compounds prepared in
1.C.1. laboratories are sent
to I.CJ.’s medical and
veterinary research station
at Wilmslow, Cheshire; to
; . ~ |he Company’s Agricultural
and plant protection stations at Jealott’s Hill, Berkshire; or to
other 1.C.1. research establishments, where they can be tested for
any worthwhile property that might be developed for the benefit
of industry or agriculture. The powerful “Gammexane” insecti-
cides, for example, were developed by workers at Hawthorndale
on the basis of initial research in the laboratories of LC.l.’s
General Chemicals Division at Widnes. In Australia a new
Biologicals Laboratory is at present being built to carry out
research work on chemicals which will ultimately be of assistance
to Australian farmers and graziers.
This cross-fertilisation of one part of 1.C.1. by another ensures that
every new compound will be critically examined and, if Valuable,
manufactured. Such a system, only possible in a large-scale
organization, is one reason why 1.C.1. has been able to make so
many of the most significant chemical discoveries of modern
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
.866*4907
road turns into ithe main street, a
sharp bend. Looking down from
the police-station street—a prong,
slightly askew, of the big fork —
you can see the road tumbling
and swooping, curling down,
past the glittering rock of the
old Jupiter, the leaping creek and
the sad willows, little green flats,
Donovan’s white-faced bullocks,
the mossy cemetery, and through
dreaming hills, down, down, to
the bustling town of Hammock,
thirty mad miles away.
Hammock is picturesque and
commercial with its new factory,
souvenir - shops, tourist - buses.
Toomalong has the austerity, the
pride, and, even with the soldier-
settlers, the authentic charm of
decay. Its memories of the roar-
ing days, when the Jupiter was
alive, and the miners gambled
with gold sovereigns in the main
street You could pick ’em up
there, any Sunday morning, so
thev sav
The Major doesn’t look. A
yelp from Bess, a whoop of
speed, and a long black chassis
brushes past, pelting him with
gravel. He jumps, his face turns
red, he brandishes his umbrella,
The car slows down, a face
looks back to assess the damage,
A stranger—no local would be
so unmannerly—and, by the look
of the car—<lust above, dried
mud below—a traveller.
He feels shaky. He crosses the
road, takes the bottle out of his
pocket, swallows a brown tablet.
He pulls a face. That’s better.
The big American car pulls in
at Harry Kennedy’s garage.
“ ’Morning, Major,” the new
schoolteacher calls gaily. He
smiles, raises his hat. Smooth
yellow dark eyes, full red
lips smiling, firm shapely legs
under the tartan skirt. So you
can still appreciate a pretty girl,
he thinks. Not much wrong with
you, you old hypochondriac,
Still, the contrast can be a bit
sharp. Youth, and high spirits,
And what have you—arthritis,
a nd a pain in the chest, and the
shadowy burden of a reputation?
He walks down the street,
acknowledging greetings with
raised h or lifted hand a sort
f . .
„ , , ~ . ,
JrjOST towns have their heroes,
historical or contemporary,
who, to some degree symbolise
the town s sense of its own
worth, its challenge. Joe
Mathews the bookmaker, for
nistance. llled the horizon round
Peak Hill, a three-pub central-
western N.S.W, town, until his
death a couple of years ago Joe
was a striking example of local
patriotism, a success, and in a
shar P>y competitive calling, his
position as a local landowner,
and, as it were patron implied
as plainly as if he had shouted
'' j‘ :>m a * and at R an hwick,
* at , he „ hadn 1 out Brown good old
1 eak
Toomalong has the Major.,
True, the Major is not a native,
But sometimes a town like
Toomalong will take a stranger
to its heart. There is some kind
of spontaneous sympathy, a sort
of falling-in-love. In such a rare
case, not being born there may
have positive advantages. There
are no awkward memories of
unsightly infancy, hobbledehoy
adolescence, to dim the lustre of
later fair achievements.
•Very differences bind. The
Major, to Toomalong, which is
nothing if not democratic, is
Everyman’s idea of the English
officer-and-gentleman, the squire
and the proconsul, all at once.
All, as it Were, raised to a higher
degree. Although, as a matter of
fact, he isn’t a professional
soldier, but a country solicitor ;
was not born in England, but in
Melbourne—perhaps, the next-
best thing—and owns only the
land around his house. He is a
gentleman.
He has his critics, of course.
But these criticise not so much
the Major as his dominance of
local affairs. One of the jokes
is, whenever a new president is
elected for the Country Women’s
Association branch—“ Wha—
tnot the Major?” He's president,
or secretary, of just about every-
thing else.
In Toomalong they can’t help
feeling that the Second War was
a bit of an anticlimax for a
bloke like the Major. Natural
enough, for an old warhorse like
him, to go galloping back . . .
But, well, the first show was his
hour of glory.
They must have thought some-
thing of the kind down in Mel-
bourne, at headquarters. Any-
way, they sidetracked him into
an administrative job. Even here
he was worth two men, a beery
brigadier, travelling through
Toomalong on some obscure
Army business, told a few of
them over at the R.S.L. Leader-
ship ; character. The ability to
fire men with a higher concept
of duty than wearing a pretty
uniform. Je ne sais quoi . . .
They nodded gravely over their
drinks, especially at the je ne sais
quoi. The brig., if a little fruity
and staff-corps-ish, was obviously
a good bloke. It did them
good to hear him say those things
about the Major.
/"\LD Mrs. Purdy pulls him
up, about her pension. He
listens gravely, giving her the
concentrated attention, the
courtesy, the wealthiest client
might expect from a solicitor.
Perhaps that’s what she wants
most of all, poor lonely old
woman—the sympathetic hearing
and the courtesy.
“Ha, hum, well, I must be
going, Mrs. Purdy,” he says at
last. “I’ll write to Sydney, right
away,” He raises his hat again.
There will be no fee, of course—
that is understood. But all the
time his mind has been busy with
the bank-bandit.
His legal practice is not very
exciting. Wills, share-farming
contracts, that sort of thing.
None of his cases are likely to
make legal history. Still, he has
had his moments. They imported
a Q.C. —a King’s Counsel then
—for the Butler case. Or perhaps
he became a K.C. later. Anyway,
he was a tremendous fellow, a
voice like thunder, a wit like
lightning, fees like . . . well,
pretty stiff fees. Another of
those cases —a verbal contract,
the emphasis on intention,
witnesses galore. The Major won
the case by pinching witnesses.
Nothing improper—it boiled
down to hostile witnesses, female,
mostly, refusing to remain hostile
to such a nicely spoken, con-
siderate gentleman. Little things
kept slipping out, they kept 1
agreeing with the Major’s
courteous suggestions. Some of
them, anyway. Enough.
After that the big-time
barrister thundered beautifully,
but in vain: brilliance operating
in a vacuum.
Passing the garage he sees the
big car still there. Well, perhaps
it was his own fault. Should
look where he was going.
Outside his office the Major
runs into Clive Hutton, and,
when Clive airs some puppyish
theory about the bank-bandit,
the Major is tempted—not to
tell him what he knows, of
course—but to drop a hint . . .
Not that it would matter. Albury
is hundreds of miles away. Still,
security is security. Lips close
firmly under the clipped
moustache.
Clive is a big landowner, of
the new generation. A slim, dark
young man, he defers to the
Major, but is secretly amused.
Wonderful old boy, and, under
those fine manners, a wonderful
old snob, Clive thinks. Clive is
sophisticated enough not to
resent the Major’s carefully
disguised belief that he, Clive,
is definitely second,-elass. Being
rich helps in achieving this
philosophical detachment.
There is nothing vulgar about
the Major’s snobbishness. It is,
in fact, rather touching, the way
the Major tries to avoid hurting
anyone’s feelings. In Toomalong,
underneath all the pettiness, there
is a large, generous tolerance of
most human foibles. Anything
as universal and innocent as
snobbery is hardly resented at all
by people secure in their self-
esteem.
They appreciate the Major’s
aloofness, too. They know there
is an uneasy consciousness of his
reputation, his top-heavy record,
underneath it. A man like the
Major, with that record, those
characteristics, could easily slip
into the ridiculous, the caricature.
It is as fine a hair-line as that
dividing tragedy and farce. They
wouldn’t like him to slip.
“Well,” says the Major.
“Must do some work. See you
at the meeting, Clive.” “See you
at the meeting. Major.” Clive
Hutton is always seeing the
Major at meetings.
For the rest of the morning the
Major is in his office, working.
A FTER lunch the Major
always has lunch at the
Royal—he goes into the bar. He
doesn’t feel well. Maybe a
brandy will steady him. He has
already taken a trinitrin tablet,
in the dining-room, with a glass
of water.
There is no saloon-bar in any
of the hotels in Toomalong.
Everyone drinks together; part
of the democratic character of
the town. The usual crowd. The
Major nods, acknowledges greet-
ings. “No thanks, Jim —just hav-
ing the one. Bit off-color.”
“Hullo, Bill—how’s that boy of
yours?” The boy is just back
from Korea.
He notices the stranger
immediately. A dark, broad
man, drinking by himself. There
is something about him; an
intensity, a sort of coiled and
desperate energy. The Major
does an extraordinary thing—he
wonders at it himself. He leans
forward and says: “Care to join
me?”
The stranger glances at him.
There is an impact, brief, like a
shock, of unflinching blue eyes
and black, hot ones burning and
melancholy under black bars of
eyebrows.
“Don’t mind if I do.”
The Major holds up two
fingers, and Terry pours the
drinks, Brandy-and-soda for the
Major, whisky-and-soda for the
stranger.
“Luck!”
The Major feels better.
“Pardon me for asking,” he says,
leaning on his elbows, “but your
face looks vaguely familiar.
Were you” he glances at the
lapel, sees it is bare, goes on
hastily “I know it is shocking
manners, but I feel so sure —were
you in the Army, by any
chance?”
The stranger nods moodily. “I
was.”
He goes on to talk about it,
his unit, campaigns, and the
Major listens eagerly. So few
of these young fellows will talk—
the ones who really know and
who can describe what they have
seen . . . This man knows; and,
again, the Major is impressed by
the sense of physical power, of
energy, throbbing like a dynamo
under a superficial quietness.
The stranger throws a pound
on the counter. “Same again.”
He turns to the Major, full
face. “You know, I was happy,
then,” he says slowly, thickly.
The Major looks at him keenly,
nods. “Yes. Yes. I can believe
that.”
The stranger drinks his whisky
quickly. “Excuse me,” he says.
“Must go.”
(Continued on page 24)


A Guide to Prospectors and Speculators
The Search for
URANIUM
BECAUSE of its dramatic
role in the development
of the atomic bomb,
uranium has been lifted
from comparative obscurity to
top-place in the world’s list of
strategic materials. Uranium and
the atom are front-page news
today.
Prior to 1939 uranium was
mined chiefly for its radium
content. Uranium compounds
also had minor applications in
the dye, ceramic and glass-
making industries. Important
pre-war producers were located
at Katanga in the Belgian
Congo; Great Bear Lake,
Canada; Joachimsthal, Czecho-
slovakia ; and Colorado, U.S.A.
World production in 1939,
excluding Russia, was of the
order of 1,500,0001 b, of uranium-
oxide. Small quantities of
uranium ore were produced in
earlier years at the South Aus-
tralian deposits at Mt. Painter
and Radium Hill,
Owing to the scarcity and
widely scattered occxirrence
of uranium ore-bodies, very
little was known about
uranium geology in pre-war
years; most mining people
were only familiar with uranium
through textbooks and odd
museum specimens; conse-
quently uranium’s sudden rise
to prominence found the mining
fraternity ill-equipped to discover
and exploit natural occurrences
of a metal which had hitherto
been regarded as a curiosity.
Uranium has the peculiar,
though not unique, charac-
teristic of spontaneous disin-
tegration which results in the
formation of various daughter-
elements. The process is accom-
panied by the release of radio-
activity—a property utilised in
uranium-prospecting.
Initially, uranium-search was
hampered by lack of suitably
trained personnel and many
fallacious concepts regarding the
geology and radioactivity of
uranium. Ignorance is partly
responsible for the present wave
of heavy speculation in uranium
shares by the Australian investing
public.
Overseas, increased experience
and the sobering effect of many
failures have resulted in a more
sensible attitude towards
uranium. In the Carnotite Sand-
stone formation ’ in Colorado,
U.S.A. —an area once thought to
be of minor economic import-
ance —impressive new uranium
finds are being-made by sound
prospecting technique involving
recognition of definite geologic
guides and drilling amounting to
some 2,000,000 ft. annually.
In Australia, uranium-search
is still in the hectic and highly
speculative preliminary stage
where finding areas of radio-
activity seems to be regarded as
more important than proving
economic uranium-deposits. We,
too,, will have many disappoint-
ments. Judging by the quality of
newspaper reports issued by
uranium-prospecting companies
from time to time, Australia’s
lack of trained personnel is pain-
fully obvious.
Apart from experience and
commonsense, the uranium-
prospector, if he is to succeed,
must have a sound basic know-
ledge of economic geology,
chemistry, nuclear physics and
electronics. The recognition and
understanding of instrument
limitations, the significance of
radioactivity and the mobility of
uranium are of prime importance
in uranium-prospecting.
There is a definite need for
technical courses to train pros-
pectors in uranium - search
methods. Considering the
strategic value of uranium, it is
surprising that Governments
have taken no action in this fine.
The academic geologist, as pro-
duced by several of our institu-
tions, is not qualified to carry out
the task of uranium-prospecting.
Owing to the confusing
effects of radioactivity from
non - uranium sources and
the extreme solubility and
mobility of uranium minerals,
ore-deposits will be difficult
to find. In addition, although
the uranium - content of
the earth’s crust is roughly
equivalent to that of tin and
arsenic, high-grade concentra-
tions of uranium appear to be
rare in nature. Bonanzas like
Great Bear Lake and Katanga
will be few and far between.
Australia has yet to prove an
ore-body in this class. During
the next few years the bulk of the
world’s uranium-production will
come from low-grade deposits
averaging about 0.2 per cent,
uranium-oxide.
The following simplified
example of a better-than-average
uranium ore-body suffices to
show the potential of uranium-
mining in this country. The
figures are artificial, but based
on general mining expedience.
The estimation of costs is con-
servative.
Assume the deposit has been
proved to contain 500,000 tons
of ore with an estimated mill-
head of 0.3 per cent. The
guaranteed Australian price for
such ore is £l2 a ton. Suppose
the mine is located in a fairly
remote district some few hundred
miles from the ore-purchase
point, and that annual produc-
tion will be 50,000 tons annually,
thus making the life of the mine
10 years;
£ £
Gross value of ore
mined annually .600.000
♦Operating costs:
Exploration and
development, £2
per ton .. .. 100,000
Mining £2 per
ton 100,000
Freight £4 per
ton 200,000
Fixed charges:
Taxation, over-
heads, royalties,
etc 100,000
500,000 500,000
' Net surplus .. 100,000
* Assuming ore is won by underground
methods. Opencut mining would
reduce mining costs.
Capital investment commen-
surate with an annual surplus
of £lOO,OOO involving return of
capital in 10 years, plus 10-15
per cent, per annum, would be
roughly £400,000.
On July 10 several Australian
uranium - prospecting concerns
had a sharemarket valuation of
ar.ound £1,000,000 each.
Radioactivity
Radioactive substances, includ-
ing the uranium family, emit up
to three kinds of radiation,
known as alpha, beta and gamma
rays. Each of the three kinds is
readily detected by its ability
to render a gas momentarily
electrically conductive (ionisa-
tion) or cause phosphorescence
(scintillations) in certain materials
such as zinc-sulphide, sodium-
iodide, etc.
Instruments commonly
employed to detect and measure
radioactivity by these effects
include the geiger- and scintilla-
tion-counters. Both instruments
are named “counters” because
they measure the time-rate of
arrival of radioactive particles—
a measure of the strength of
radioactivity. Counters also
detect cosmic rays—the highly
penetrating radiation from outer
space.
Because of the low penetrating-
power of alpha and beta radia-
tion, it is important to realise that
By A. G. PALMER.
B.E., A.M. Aus. I.M.M.
most field-counters are only
sensitive to gamma and cosmic
rays. Measurement of alpha
and beta activity requires special
equipment which is normally
unsuited to field use.
In the field, counters register
a radioactive background caused
by the combined effect of cosmic
rays and traces of radioelements
in rocks and soils. Under normal
background conditions the usual
type of portable geiger-counter
registers about 100 counts a
minute. A very sensitive geiger-
counter incorporating a large
counter-tube might have a
normal background-count of
several thousand counts a
minute. Reporting radioactivity
as so many counts a minute is
therefore not significant, unless
the normal background of the
counter in use is stated.
Uranium - deposits usually
make their presence known by
an increase in radioactive back-
ground. Unhappily an increase
in radioactive background does
not necessarily indicate the
presence of uranium (prospect-
ing companies please note!).
As well as uranium, an
increase in radioactive back-
ground may be due to:
(1) Thorium.
(2) The potassium isotope K4O.
(3) Daughter-elements of uranium.
(4) Daughter-elements of thorium.
The future of thorium is un-
certain. The isotope of potassium
and the daughter-elements of
thorium and uranium are not
practical sources of atomic
energy. Many granite rocks
exhibit high potassium radio-
activity.
Measurement of abnormal
radioactivity may be quoted as
some multiple of the normal
background-count. A common
and quite misleading practice is
to quote radioactivity in terms
of percentage uranium
equivalent, usually written
%Uj0 B e. The statement is a
measure of radioactivity applic-
able to any radioelement.
Uranium may or may not be
present. Chemical analysis and
in certain cases specialised radio-
metric technique are the only
methods of, determining the
element responsible for radio-
activity.
An important factor in
uranium-prospecting not gener-
ally recognised is radioactive
equilibrium. Briefly, the spon-
taneous disintegration of
uranium results in the formation
of various daughter-elements
which disintegrate in turn. The
end-product in the process is a
stable isotope of lead Pb2o6. As
previously stated, the daughter-
elements of uranium are not
practical sources of atomic
energy.
In a newly formed uranium
deposit about 1,000,000 years are
required for the percentages of
uranium and its daughters to
reach a constant value. When
this condition is reached the
deposit is said to be in radio-
active equilibrium.
Uranium itself emits alpha
particles only, whilst several of
the daughter-elements are strong
gamma-emitters. Because most
field-counters are unable to detect
alpha or beta activity, radioactive
readings taken over a deposit of
uranium in equilibrium are due
solely to the gamma activity of
the daughters. No difficulties
arise provided the deposit is in
equilibrium —the percentage of
uranium is obtained indirectly
by measurement of the gamma
activity of the daughters.
The important point in pros-
pecting is the fact that surface-
weathering of an exposed
uranium-deposit can result in
the separation of uranium from
its daughters. Both portions are
no longer in equilibrium. The
uranium-rich fraction Will be
low in gamma activity, resulting
in low counter-readings. A
uranium-deposit of this type
could easily be overlooked. The
daughter-rich portion, on the
other hand, will be high in
gamma activity, resulting in high
counter - readings, yet the
uranium-content will be low.
Many sub-economic uranium
deposits exhibit spectacular
gamma activity for this reason.
Chemical or fluorimetric assay
will immediately determine the
relationship between gamma
activity and uranium-content.
Also of importance to the
prospector is the so-called “mass
effect.” The gamma activity of
any sample is theoretically pro-
portional to the mass of gamma-
emitting element present. Large
samples will therefore give higher
counter-readings than small
samples containing the same per-
centage of radioelement.
For this reason ordinary field-
counter readings taken over a
uranium deposit cannot be used
to determine the percentage of
uranium present. This can only
be done by chemical analysis of
representative samples, or by
radiometric analysis controlled
by chemical analysis. Radio-
metric assay involves comparison
of equal weights of the unknown
sample and a known sample
under certain standard condi-
tions. Laboratory-type counters
shielded by a castle of lead-
blocks to eliminate background
effects are used for precise radio-
metric determinations.
Uranium-occurrence
Until recently two widely held
concepts regarding uranium-
occurrence were: : —
The extreme rarity of commercial
deposits.
Commercial deposits would mainly
be confined to the Pre-Cambrian—
the oldest group of rocks in the
earth’s crust.
Areas of Pre-Cambrian miner-
alised in copper and cobalt
ranked high as potential uranium
country.
Today there are few set rules
for finding uranium. Intense
prospecting activity overseas s
showing that uranium minerals
are remarkably übiquitous.
Deposits can occur in rocks or
all ages and in association with
almost every type of mineral
deposit.
Uranium is particularly wide-
spread in certain sedimentary
rocks, notably the marine
phosphate rocks (phosphorites)
and the bituminous black (Kolm)
shales of Sweden.
The known world reserves of
phosphate rock alone are
estimated to contain 10 million
tons of uranium. With one
pound of uranium equivalent in
energy-content to 1500 tons of
coal, the energy-potential of
phosphate rock is comparable to
that of the world’s coal- and oil-
fields. Exploitation of very-low-
grade uraniferous phosphorites
is yielding uranium as a by-
product of the fertiliser industry.
A relatively frequent type of
uranium-deposit occurs in certain
acid pegmatites. (An acid peg-
matite is a coarse-grained form
of granite.) The uranium is
usually present as pitchblende,
associated with various rare
minerals containing thorium,
tantalum, columbium, titanium,
yttrium, etc.
This type of deposit is a source
of high radioactivity and impres-
sive chemical U- 3 Og assays. Any
company engaged in prospecting
regions containing uraniferous
pegmatites is sure to have a
remarkable career in Pitt-street.
It should be stressed at this
juncture that uranium-bearing
pegmatites are seldom economic
because of limited tonnages,
erratic mineralisation and
difficult metallurgy. I anticipate
that the mineralised granites of
New England (N.S.W.) will prove
a prolific source of uraniferous
pegmatites.
The most important primary-
ore mineral of uranium is pitch-
blende or uraninite (uraninitg is
a crystallised form of pitch-
blende). Under suitable condi-
tions weathering of primary
uranium minerals produces a
great variety of secondary
minerals, including torbernite,
autonite, carnotite and “sooty”
pitchblende. The majority of
these secondary minerals are
vividly and characteristically
colored —a point of great signi-
ficance in prospecting. To date
most of the world’s uranium-
producers have been found with-
out the aid of counters. How-
ever, as the obvious forms of
uranium-deposit become known,
our dependence on electronic
instruments will increase.
A pitchblende vein extending
upwards into the zone of
weathering is gradually replaced
by secondary minerals which
mushroom upwards and out-
wards along joints, shears and
pore-spaces in the host rock.
This lateral expansion will result
in a broad diffuse zone of
secondary uranium-mineralisa-
tion. A widespread and impres-
sive array of highly radioactive
secondary - uranium minerals,
including sooty pitchblende, is
often derived from sub-economic
pitchblende-veins in this fashion.
Cappings of secondary material
over primary mineralisation are
generally uneconomic.
Most uranium minerals are
remarkably soluble and mobile
under the influence of acid
ground-water. In arid climates,
superficial accumulations of
secondary uranium minerals may
occur miles away from the
primary source. Sometimes
secondary deposits will remain
long after the primary source
has ceased to exist. Secondary
accumulations, in their turn, may
be attacked and dispersed by
ground-water.
One of the most übiquitous
uranium minerals is torbernite.
It can turn up anywhere, often
disassociated from any apparent
primary source. A find of
torbernite is only broadly
significant.
Few accumulations of
secondary minerals are profitable
sources of uranium. They are
mainly of economic interest as
possible guides to primary ore-
bodies. An understanding of the
distribution of secondary
uranium minerals is vital-to the
o Continued on page 27)


ONLY QANTAS offers all this
NA3
TO
CANADA
.ssca
IS";”
VANCOUVER'
iii'lii
jij
trm-
SAN FRANCISCt
Honolulu
TUI
Mil ill
iPiiiiw
m
h
I 13
j
ill i
in:
Jla!!
SYDNEY
" Super Constellation
Only Qantas offers big, new, beautifully-appointed Super Constellations to North
America. Only Qantas offers all-Australian air crews, two stewards and a hostess
on every flight, and the benefits of over 33 years of experience. Fly Qantas, always
one of the world’s first airlines. Twice weekly to San Francisco —three times
fortnightly to Vancouver. Your choice of de-luxe First-Class or economical
Tourist Class. Dollar allowance available. Consult your Travel Agent.
FLY AUSTRALIAN ST AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
OANTAS
Incorporating
BCPA
ẃ
“Pleasant trip,” says the Major.
“I’ve enjoyed our little chat,
really I have.”
The stranger nods and goes.
The Major drinks his brandy,
and then, as he is leaving, Ted
Allison buttonholes him. Ted is
the new C.O. of the local C.M.F.
unit, very keen. Having bored
everyone who will listen to him,
he is anxious to bore the Major.
The Major listens, impatiently
at first; then, despite himself,
with growing interest. Yes, yes,
he agrees. Look after the funda-
mentals ... Teach ’em to handle
a rifle so that a movement is
automatic, drop to the ground
like a shot, lying load , , .
AS he steps into the street he
sees the stranger getting out
of the big black car. It is the
same car. He is looking up and
down the street, and, as if mak-
mg up his mind, he begins to
cross the road, towards the bank
Then the Major sees Constable
Teale walking towards the
stranger.
The stranger stops, and the
Major catches the words “Angle-
parking.”
The Major smiles. Officious-
ness. Nobody worries about
angle-parking in Toomalong.
He starts to cross the road,
swinging his umbrella jauntily,
his mind turning over the
problems of basic training .
Bess, dozing under the green
garden-seat in front of the hotel,
jumps up to follow him.
The Major drops, and, as be
tails, his right hand tosses the
umbrella, his left hand catches
it, his right hand takes the impact
of the road, bounces ; then, from
the prone position, the black
umbrella swings in a perfectly
executed movement, pointing at
the stranger.
The stranger wheels, his hand
diving to his pocket, an
automatic shines blackly in the
sun. Constable Teale leaps.
Bess barks.
There is a brief, grunting tussle
in the middle of the road before
the stranger bursts free. Drop-
ping the weapon, he races for
the car.
As he pounds past the Major
looks up and hooks him by the
ankle with the handle of his
umbrella. He crashes to the
asphalt, and Teale, the unarmed-
combat expert, grabs him. In
a moment he is handcuffed.
Terry, who has rushed out, is
the first to draw attention from
this exciting scene. “Look at
the Major!”
Teale looks round, “Quick,”
he says. “Get the doctor.”
'-THAT’S how Blackall the
A bank-bandit, the motorised
Ned Kelly, came to be caught in
Toomalong, of all places. Not
in Hammock, or Albury, or
Sydney, or Melbourne, but in
sleepy old Toomalong.
TTie papers gave Teale all the
credit —of course, the sergeant
being away, the constable wrote
his own report —and he did well
enough, no doubt, acted quickly.
No one in Toomalong grudges
him his promotion, even if they
didn’t like him. He’s in New-
castle now, in all that coal-
dust, wearing a brand new
silver stripe. Good luck to him!
But don’t talk about Teale as
the hero of the. affair: not in
Toomalong.
The fact is, there are two
truths, the official version and
the Toomalong one. According
to Toomalong, the Major spotted
Blackall in the beginning, when
he was nearly skittled. Was
suspicious, anyway. Talking to
him over at the Royal, leading
him on, just as he pumped the
stranger in that half-forgotten
cattle - stealing case, these
suspicions were sharpened.
It needed a ruse, though, to
confirm them, to convince the
dumb policeman, Teale. That’s
why he dropped to the ground.
It wasn’t the start of a heart
attack, as the city paper said, or
because he stumbled- It was
tactics.
Aiming his umbrella in that
extraordinary fashion wasn’t
automatic, old memory playing
tricks or new preoccupations
bubbling to the surface: it was
icy-cold, deliberate. He knew
just the way Blackall would
react, seeing it out of the tail of
his eye, a nervy fellow, all strung-
up, with his own memories to
jog him. It was deception, like
the Wooden Horse of Troy, or
dummy artillery in the desert. It
worked, too.
Anyway, that’s their story, and
a stranger would be ill-advised to
argue with them. Some patriot
might push his face in. A young
and vigorous people need heroes.
THE excitement of it all, the
shock, was too much for
the Major. He’s had a dicky
heart for years —that’s why he
gave up duck-shooting, trout-
fishing, all the sturdy, outdoor
things he delighted in. Coronary
occlusion, in that headquarters
job: severe g.s.w. in the chest,
in the first show ; and, of course,
the years, catching-up with him
at last.
He’s in the District Hospital
now, and they say he can’t last
long. Well, when all’s said and
done, he’s had a fair innings.
But it’s hard to imagine. It
isn’t sad, exactly, but, in a way,
momentous. Like the death of
a town.


To capture now the Cyprus or perish every man...
Ballad of the Cyprus
By L. L. ROBSON
WHEN the 200-ton Gov-
ernment brig Cyprus
left Hobart Town in
July, 1829, with 33
convicts, bound for Macquarie
Harbor penal-station 240 miles
away on the West Coast, no one
except perhaps two or three
of the prisoners had any
idea that this voyage would
include the seizure of the
ship by 18 of their number,
and that the guards and crew
within weeks would be marooned
add starving on the wild southern
coast of Van Diemen’s Land
while the mutineers steered a
course for China.
The story of the mutiny
created great interest in England,
where the capture was dramatised
on the London stage, while here
one “Frank the Poet,” a convict,
wrote a song which was sung
around campfires from one end
of the continent to the other.
This balladist also wrote “The
Convict’s Tour of Hell,” but
apart from that little is known
of him or his poems. He had
no love for Van Diemen’s Land,
and when he left the colony from
Launceston he is said to have
recited:
Land of lags and kangaroos,
Of possums and the scarce emu,
The farmer’s pride but the con-
vict’s hell,
Land of bums —fare thee well!
The ballad of the Cyprus is
one of the many “Come all ye”
songs, such as “Bold Jack
Donahue,” “The Ballad of Ben
Hall’s Gang,” “Van Diemen’s
Land” and “The Ballad of Jack
Lefroy”:
Come all you sons of Freedom,
A chorus join with me,
I’ll sing a song of heroes.
And glorious liberty.
Some lads condemn’d from Eng-
land
Sail’d to Van Diemen’s shore,
Their country, friends and
parents.
Perhaps never to see more.
When landed in this Colony
To different masters went,
For trifling offences
T’ Hobart Town gaol were
sent.
A second sentence being
We were order’d for to be
Sent to Macquarie Harbor,
That place of tyranny.
The song goes on to speak of
the convict’s lot in the island
colony ruled, by Lieutenant-
Governor Arthur: —-
The hardships we’d to undergo,
Are matters of record,
But who believes the Convict,
Or who regards his word?
For starv’d and flogg’d and
punish’d,
Depriv’d of all redress,
The Bush our only refuge,
With death to end distress.
Hundreds of us were shot down,
For daring to be free,
Numbers caught and banished,
To lifelong slavery.
Brave Swallow, Watt, and Davis,
Were in our noble band
Determin’d at the first slant,
To quit Van Diemen’s Land.
William Swallow, alias Walker,
alias Britton, alias Syler, alias
Tyler, the leader of the mutineers,
had already had some experience
in the business of piracy, for in
1811, or thereabouts, he had
succeeded in seizing a schooner
at Port Jackson. He was, how-
ever, prevented from making off
with it, and earned himself trans-
portation to Van Diemen’s Land
in the Deveron, which was badly
battered by a storm on the way
down and nearly wrecked. The
captain called for volunteers to
cut away part of the rigging, and
when no one stepped forward
Swallow undertook the job and
saved the ship.
But on her voyage back to
England the Deveron was found
to have Swallow stowed away.
He was handed over to the
British admiral at Rio de Janeiro,
but again escaped and made his
way to London, only to be
retaken and forwarded once
again to the colonies. The crime
which resulted in his being sent
to Macquarie Harbor was his
detection on board the
Georgiana, “supposed to be with
intent to escape from the
colony.”
William Watt, another convict
mentioned in the ballad, had
made two attempts to escape
from chain-gangs, and had
received three more years’
sentence in addition to his
original seven. He was ordered
to Macquarie Harbor “for being
a Second time at large before the
expiration of his Colonial
sentence,”
The third “hero” was James
Davis, who, in 1822, had gone
“on board the ship Kent with a
pass with intent to escape from
the colony. Fifty lashes.” The
Supreme Court sentenced him
for “highway robbery on the
person of Charles Flowers, and
taking from him a one-pound
note.”
Thirty-three (the
ballad says 33 in one place and
31 in another) were herded on
board the Cyprus for the passage
around to Macquarie Harbor,
but a storm compelled the brig
to shelter in Recherche Bay.
opposite the southern end of
Bruni Island, in D’Entrecasteaux
Channel: —■
March’d down in chains and
guarded,
On the Cyprus Brig convey’d,
The topsails being hoisted,
The anchor being weighed,
. The wind it blew sou’-sou’-west ■
And on we went straightway,
Till we found ourselves wind
bound,
In gloomy Recherche Bay.
On August 14, a Friday, the
storm had died down. The
prisoners had their plans laid,
and the opportunity for mutiny
presented itself late that after-
noon when Lieut. Carew, the
officer in charge of the guards,
Williams the surgeon, and a
convict named Popjoy had taken
one of the boats and gone off
fishing:
’Twas August eighteen-twenty-
nine,
With thirty-one on board.
Lieutenant Carew left the Brig,
And soon we passed the word.
The Doctor too was absent,
The soldiers off their guard,
A better opportunity
Could never have occurr’d.
Confin’d within a dismal hole,
We soon contriv’d a plan,
To capture now the Cyprus,
Or perish every man.
Two of the ten guards were
watching the convicts allowed on
deck for exercise, their quarters
being too small to lie down in.
Only two prisoners were
supposed to be free at once, but
at the time of the mutiny that
number was exceeded, possibly
with the connivance of some of
the sailors who were ticket-of-
leave men.
The rest of the soldiers were
below deck, at supper, but the
five convicts —Swallow, Pennell,
McGuire, Jones and Ferguson —
hesitated in their plan to attack
the guards. Ferguson saw this
and, desperate lest such a good
chance should be wasted, he told
them that if they did not make
the attack at once he would tell
of their plans. This decided
them.
The convicts edged dft and
suddenly pointed out an
imaginary object at sea to the
guards. The guards turned to
look, and were immediately
struck down with belaying-pins
and leg-irons ; the hatchway over
the soldiers’ quarters was thrown
into place and piled with anchors,
wood and hencoops, and the
remainder of the prisoners were
quickly released.
The sentries had been over-
powered so suddenly that the
soldiers at their meal had not
time to jump up from the table
and get out on deck. Finding
themselves trapped, they started
to fire up through the hatchway,
and one musket-ball passed be-
tween Swallow’s body and arm,
ripping off his sleeve.. Swallow
immediately broke off negotia-
tions, and buckets of boiling
water from the galley were
poured down to discourage the
fusillade from below. The
mutineers further threatened to
suffocate the soldiers by throw-
ing down a kettle of lighted pitch
if they did not surrender at once.
The threat was enough for the
scalded guards, but before they
passed up their muskets, they
dampened the powder. This
precaution saved Carew, for
when he came alongside, Pennell,
who had tried to escape being
sent to Macquarie Harbor once
before by jumping overboard,
attempted to shoot him.
Harrison, the captain of the
Cyprus, had come out on deck
immediately l|e heard the noise,
but the mutineers were ready
and hit him on the head with a
belaying-pin. Not all the
convicts were prepared to join
the mutineers, and- they were
ordered to lie down on the deck
in the bow. The ship had been
captured in 10 minutes:
But thirteen turned faint-hearted
And begged to go ashore,
So eighteen boys rush’d daring,
And took the Brig and store.
We first addressed the soldiers,
“For liberty we crave,
Give up your arms this instant,
Or the sea will be your grave,
By tyranny we’ve been oppress’d,
By your Colonial laws,
But we’ll bid adieu to slavery,
Or die in freedom’s cause.”
We next drove off the skipper,
Who came to help his crew,
Then gave three cheers for liberty,
’Twas cheerly answered too.
Another version of the ballad,
known in Tasmania, brings in
someone called “Michael
Hogan,” who was not among the
convicts at all, unless under some
other name. This is not impos-
sible, as several of them had
aliases, but it is far more likely
that it has crept in from some
other songr—
Then up jumped Michael Hogan,
Charlie Towers and some more,
We soon disarmed the sentry
And left him in his gore.
Popjoy, the convict in Carew’s
boat, was ordered to come on
board, as he was known to have
some knowledge of navigation.
He refused, so was tied-up and
put down with the soldiers. The
mutineers now commenced to
maroon the crew, guards and
the convicts who were not co-
operating by running a shuttle-
service to the shore. According
to his own account of the pro-
ceedings, Popjoy disguised
himself somehow and got on
shore with the sailors.
Everyone was eventually
landed on shore that night
except the 17 mutineers and a
sailor they pressed into their
service. There were 44 people
in all, including Mrs. Carew
and her two children and some
of the soldiers’ wives. The
convicts gave them one sheep, a
few pieces of beef, flour, biscuits,
tea, rum, a lighted stick, a
tinder-box and a musket and d
few rounds of ammunition:: —
We brought the sailors from
below,
And row’d them to the land,
Likewise the wife and children
Of Carew in command.
Supplies of food and water,
We gave the vanquish’d crew,
Returning good for evil,
As we’d been taught to do.
We mounted guard with watch
and ward,
Then haul’d the boat aboard,
We elected William Swallow,
And obey’d our Captain’s word.
Next morning the Cyprus put
out to sea. Swallow had been
elected captain and Jones mate.
Ferguson, elected lieutenant,
dressed himself for the part in
Carew’s uniform. Apart from
the three “elected” in the
ballad, the escapees were James
Camm, James Davis, Matthew
Pennell, William Watt, Michael
Herring, Alexander Stevenson,
William Templeman, Robert
McGuire, Samuel Thacker, John
Beveridge, John Dennie, Thomas
Briant and William Brown, the
last-named being the sailor who
was forced by the convicts to
stay on board.
The ballad, unlike many
early Australian ones, ends
triumphantly:
The morn broke bright, the wind
was fair,
We headed for the sea
With one cheer more to those on
shore
And glorious liberty.
For navigating smartly
Bill Swallow was our man,
Who laid a course out neatly
To take us to'Japan.
Then sound your golden trumpets,
Play on your tuneful notes
The Cyprus Brig is sailing,
How proudly now she floats.
May fortune help th’ noble lads,
And keep them ever free
From Gags, and Cats, and Chains
and traps,
And Cruel Tyranny.
As soon as the brig had dis-
appeared from Recherche Bay
on the Saturday morning Carew,
realising that the food would not
last 44 people for long, asked
Popjoy to try to reach Birch’s
Bay, a settlement 70 miles away
up D’Entrecasteaux Channel.
Popjoy had been sentenced in
1817 in Surrey to 14 years’ trans-
portation. His record in Van
Diemen’s Land included 50
lashes for “wilfully staving-in a
whaleboat and making false
reports respecting the same.” At
the end of 1828 he was “fully
committed for trial for highway
robbery on'the person of H. T.
Nixon, and taking from him a
gold seal and other articles of
♦property.”
Police description of Popjoy
suggests he must have been one
of the most tattooed convicts
ever transported. On his left
arm was tattooed a sailor, a
bottle, a glass, a woman holding
an anchor, Britannia, the sun,
the moon, seven stars, a flag, the
Masonic arms, a mermaid and
a tree. On his right arm Popjoy
had inscribed an anchor, the
Crucifixion, the King’s arms, a
sailor, a woman and the lines.
From rocks and shoals and
every hill,
May God protect the sailor still.
Above the elbow on the same
arm was:
Rocks, hills and sands
And barren lands,
Kind fortune set me free,
From roaring guns
And women’s tongues
O Lord deliver me.
With Meakins, another convict,
Popjoy started out to follow the
much - indented coastline to
Birch’s Bay, about 50 miles away
along the foreshore, swimming
the rivers as they came to them.
But after crossing the third one,
with their clothes tied to their
heads, the two men were
surprised by natives and had to
swim 1 back hurriedly, leaving
their clothes behind, “and it was
hot until the fifth day that we
got back covered with Bruses
Blood and Gore.”
One attempt to reach the
Birch’s Bay station had failed.
In the next three days, continues
Popjoy in his account, “a canoo
was contrived and [l] was again
asked by the Officers if I should
be able to make My Way to
birche’s bay in the Canoo. Is
answered yes or Lose My Life."
This canoe, or coracle, was made
with three pocket-knives by
Morgan, a ticket-of-leave sailor.
It waff 12ft. long, the keel, gun’le,
stern and sternpost being made
from wattle - branches. This
skeleton was covered with two
hammocks coated with resin and
soap which some of the men
happened to have. Accompanied
by Morgan, Popjoy set out to
paddle the canoe to Partridge
Island, about 20 miles away,
with a note from the officers tied
around his neck:
Research Bay,
Aug. 23,
12 p.m.
Dear Sir,
These will inform you that the
brig Cyprus has been captured by
the prisoners who sent us together
with family, soldiers, sailors to be
in all forty persons on shore. We
have been here [Research Bay] 9
days and are without provisions.
Your immediate assistance will he
the cause of saving us from starva-
tion.
The men who bear this have be-
haved in an exemplary manner and
of course will be treated accordingly.
We beg to remain
Dear Sir
Your obedt. humble servants
Wm. Carew
Lieut. 63rd Regiment
Walter Williams, Surgeon
To Monro,
Superintendent, Birch’s Bay
Robert Harrison
P.S. Pour of the guards severely
wounded.
On another scrap of paper,
Williams had added:
You will not destroy the boat as
it was [built] with 3 Pocket Knives.
Eighteen persons gone in the brig.
5 making Hobart thro’ the bush.
We fail for want of paper. You,
therefore, will apprise his Excellency
in the Lieutenant’s name of our mis-
fortune. _
W.W.
Popjoy and Morgan were
picked-up two days later by the
Orelia, the pilot having seen a
light on Partridge Island which
had been reached safely by the
two convicts. One account of
the mutiny says that the
Georgiana, companion-ship of
the Orelia, had, in beating down-
channel a few days earlier,
passed within a mile of the
marooned party, which had not
been able to attract her
attention.
Meantime, at Recherche Bay
the food left by the mutineers
had run out - and the position was
critical. The party was forced
to eat mussels, from which they
made a sort of soup, but this
source of food ended when a
spring-tide covered the rocks.
Many of those marooned then
tried to ease their hunger by
chewing and smoking what
tobacco they had, ahd the
prisoners finally roasted and ate
a small lap-dog.
When the canoe was being
built Carew saw that it would
be something like a miracle if
such a crazy craft stayed afloat,
and so on the 20th, six days
after the mutiny, he sent off five
convicts overland to the Huon.
This group comprised John Hall,
William Gould, Robert Briggs,
James Taylor and Frederick
Chapman. Gould is well-known
as an artist.
(Continued on page 30)


By Appointment
By Appointment By Appointment By Appointment to H.M. the
to H.M. King to H.M. King to H.M. King Queen of the
George VI Frederik IX Gustaf V Netherlands
Cherry Heering
Denmark’s Liqueur Delight since 1818
m
All your guests will enjoy it
anytime!
Round off your dinner with Cherry
Heering—an old liqueur delight from
Denmark which all guests enjoy. Made
with unchanged formula for four
generations by the Heering family in
Copenhagen . . . and patronised by
royalty. Serve chilled.
GlbmfHe&UM/f
ove/llcaOwa/nt,
A most distinctive
dessert. Try it I
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The main racing scene will
return to Sydney this coming
Saturday, when the S.T.C. will
stage at Rosehill the first leg of
its winter double, the Winter
Handicap (£2100; seven
furlongs; in which there will be
a fourth prize of £100). The
£3lOO S.T.C. Cup (with a gold
cup worth £300) will be run the
following Saturday. Tarien,
favorite for the sprint, ran an
impressive race at Canterbury
last Saturday week, carrying 9.6
into third place behind Regoii
and Spear by. She drops to 8.11,
and it isn’t easy to pick one to
down her. Minor places may go
to Iroquois and Regoii.
Sydney gallopers over a middle
distance should meet keen
opposition from visiting horses
in the S.T.C. Cup (li mile). One
that may make it interesting is
Melbourne-trained Sun worship,
a three-year-old Helios (imp.)
gelding, who started favorite and
easily won the Moonee Valley
Gowrie Handicap last Saturday.
One of Theo Lewis’s team, he
has 7.9 at Rosehill. He won over
one-mile-five-furlongs at- the
Valley, with topweight 8.6,
recording his fourth successive
win on the track.
Sanctus —1949 Brisbane Cup
winner, and Adelaide Cup win-
ner the previous year—is related
to Pettyuna, winner of the
Second Arundel Handicap for
two-year-olds at Moonee Valley.
The colt wasn’t fancied, but he
easily beat favorite Storm Flash
and Sashay. He had been in a
couple of minor places at earlier
starts. Petyuna is by Sans I ache
(imp.) from Solsgrace by Solar
Bear (imp.) from Toussiant by
Drake (imp.). Solsgrace is a half-
sister to Sanctus, while back in
the pedigree figures Lady San, a
winner of the V.R.C. Oaks, and
Fujisan, whose several successes
included the A.J.C. Doncaster
and the All-Aged Stakes.
At 2.45 pim. on Saturday Bill
Cook won the Burnside Stakes
at Rosehill on second-favorite
Laager, and there were hupdreds
of calls of “Good on you,
Cookie!” Half an hour later —
the succeeding event —saw Cook
noisily hooted when he won the
Welter on 12-to-l Peter
Willonyx, trained at Randwick
by Maurice McCarten. One
week earlier Peter Willonyx had
started favorite in a similar type
of race at Canterbury and had
beaten two home. At Rosehill
he secured a saloon «passage
alongside the rails and won
easily.
Sir Pilot, winner of the Rose-
hill Handicap, had had a couple
of sharpening-up starts in sprints
prior to Saturday’s race, so there
was nothing surprising in the
strong move for the T. J. Smith-
trained runner. Winner over
varying distances up to 13 fur-
longs, Sir Pilot seems the
ideal type for the S.T.C, Cup.
Royal Era, winner at two of his
three prior starts, made a game
bid in the Rosehill Handicap,
and was caught only in the final
few strides. High Caste (sire of
Sir Pilot) was also represented by
another Rosehill winner. High
Joy, in the fillies’ division of the
Maiden Two-year-old. The filly
is from the Buonarroti mare
Buclar, and had been in work_
only a few weeks.
Miss G. King, racing Sunny
Hour on lease, won at Rosehill
her first race at her first start as
an owner, the imported horse
landing the money for her in the
Second Parramatta Stakes. She
was, naturally, excited. In con-
trast, J. K. Mackay, owner of
Dominant, winner of the Two-
year-old Maiden, was apparently
more interested in polo, compet-
ing in the Countess of Dudley
series. Mackay bred Dominant,
who is by Valiant Chief from
Kirriki, a Salmagundi (imp.)
mare from Reticence by Wallace,
son of Carbine. Though Domin-
ant’s prior form had been more
promising than that of his oppon -
ents, he was only third in the
betting. An overnight plunge
shortened Raven Ace’s price
from 12’s on Friday to 7 to 2.
Raven Ace missed the start and
that was the end of his chance.
Charlie Munro, who trains
Sunny Hour for Miss King, was
confident of a first-up success
with the importation, who was
bought at the April Randwick
sales for 1500gns.
• • • •
First Sydney win by Cassie-
bawn was anticipated by a
group of well-informed punters,
who won a lot of money when
the smart Valiant Chief gelding
won the First Parramatta Stakes
at Rosehill. Cassiebawn had
shown fair form at provincial
meetings and at Newcastle, but
on Saturday had only 7.7 (with
71b. allowance for apprentice A.
Turner, who also won the last
race of the afternoon on Sunny
Hour). Though Cassiebawn
looks like being a sprinter only,
his background indicates staying
ability, as he comes from the
family which produced Delta,
Manfred, Martian, and Tea
Rose.
Slow beginnings appeared to
settle the prospects of Beaupa,
Fresh More, Sobriquet and
Cragsley in Rosehill events. The
first-named—one of Dan Lewis’s
Randwick team came home
strongly for second money
in the Maiden Two-year-old.
Fresh More couldn’t handle the
soft going in the early stages of
the fillies’ division of the Maiden
Two-year-old ; Sobriquet, tailed
off at the five-furlongs in the
Rosehill Handicap, gained third-
money. Cragsley ran greenly in
the Second Parramatta Stakes.
A stable in luck is the one to
follow! That of Sydney mentor
Frank Kennedy has been enjoy-
ing a great run in Brisbane ; races
won include the Brisbane Cup
with Lancaster, and the
Doomben, Queen’s and Tatter-
sail’s Cups with Euphrates. Last-
named beat two New Zealanders,
Paper Strip and Rising Fast, in
the Doomben Cup. Both minor
placegetters are trained by 1.
Tucker, who seemed more than a
bit unlucky. Neville Sellwood.
rider of Paper Strip, made a
special trip from Sydney last
Saturday morning to take the
mount, and had the Cup almost
within his grasp until Melbourne
jockey Bill Williamson loomed
up on Euphrates. Persian Link,
Cup favorite, spoilt his chance
by running wide in the straight.
Euphrates has now won 11
races and £22,270 in stakes,
£lO,OOO of this from the
Doomjoen Cup. Kennedy has
won record stakemoney for a
trainer in the Brisbane area. He
is expected to add further prizes
to his list before the end of
August.
New Zealand owners and
trainers ■. have had every
encouragement to bring horses to
Australia in the past 12 months
—in fact, over several seasons of
racing—and in the first betting-
lists on the “big four” of the
October and November round—
Epsom and Metropolitan and
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—
their representatives figure
prominently. At this stage Prince
Cortauld is nominal favorite for
the Epsom ; for the Metropolitan
New Zealanders Gendarme and
Lancaster are on the first line
with Carioca. New Zealanders
Rising Fast and Lancaster are
respective early first-line picks
for the Caulfield and the Mel-
bourne Cups, though their form
wasn’t striking at Doomben.
Bahrein (in early favor for the
Epsom) has won a number of
races in New Zealand this season
and seems a top-class three-year-
old. Master Proven arrived in
Sydney from the Dominion a
week or so back, and has gone
into the stables of Randwick
mentor T. J. Smith. His last
win was in the Tauranga Cup
(10i furlongs). The boat that
brought Master Proven also
carried Lord Admiral, Asmara
and Lady Bosworth.
• • •
Races at half-a-mile were a
feature of former Sydney “pony”
meetings, particularly at Ascot,
where a 15-event programme
often was the bill-of-fare. Half-
mile races are not allowed at
most Australian tracks, but in
Adelaide the first two-year-old
events of the season—run early
August, soon after the term opens
—are decided at that distance.
They are the Fulham Park Plate
and the Dequetteville Stakes.
The former is for colts and geld-
ings carrying 8.5 and the other
for fillies on Bst.
* * *
St. George and University,
leaders in the Sydney Rugby
Union comp., were both upset
on Saturday (by Easts, 27-nil,
and by Drummoyne, 11-3), and
now five teams share the lead.
With five rounds to go, this
year’s competition is the most
open yet.
• • • •
There are 10 teams in the
competition. On Saturday,
Gordon beat Parramatta, 18-6,
Norths beat Manly, 14-11, and
Randwick beat Eastwood 13-8.
♦ * *
In the first half of the split
round of the V.F.L. on Satur-
day, Geelong, though they didn’t
score a point in the third quarter,
were too good for North, whose
kicking has been wildly astray
for the last two rounds (10.2-
5.13). In the other two games
Hawthorn nonchalantly booted
14.17 to St. Kilda’s 5.10, and
Melbourne kept more or less on
level pegging with the Hawks in
the middle of the competition
“If he bumps you I'll claim a foul.”
table-by beating Carlton 10.16-
6.5.
“Roscoe”: Sandringham’s re-
cent annihilation by Preston
(18.22-1.4) in the V.F.A. com-
petition recalls that Sandring-
ham is mixed-up in a couple of
Association records —with the
Zebras each time on the receiv-
ing end. The highest-scoring
game ever in Association foot-
ball was Port Melbourne v.
Sandringham, August 30, 1941
(Port 43.29 to 7.9 —338 point§
in all). And in the same year
one-time goalkicking star Bob
Pratt (then with Coburg) kicked
22 goals against Sandringham,
the second-highest Association
tally for one player on record.
♦ * *
Saturday’s third and last
Rugby League Test match —
Australia (meaning N. S. Wales
and Queensland) against Great
Britain (or that part of it centred
round the industrial north of
England)—was conducted in an
atmosphere of quiet and
decorum. As the lad who forced
a way through the home-going
crowd in search of empties and
what other debris of value might
have been left behind re-
marked: “There wasn’t even a
fight on the Hill.”
Both teams were very
obviously on their best behavior
after the disgusting performance
of the previous week. For a
beginning it seemed almost as if
the Australians at least would be
content to play “touch” football.
England put on two tries in that
time. Later the game settled
down to a solid, if unexciting,
pattern.
Australia won 20-16 (four tries
all; Australia four goals to two)
and regained the “Ashes.”
Though the English backs played
the better and more intelligent
football their forwards could
not maintain the pace.
There were 67,577 people
crowded into Sydney Cricket
Ground for the game, and the
English managers were
unashamedly gleeful. Tour
profits have been a record —
£30,712 to the visitors for the
three Tests alone. The tourists
will return this ■ way for three
more matches after their New
Zealand visit. Like prima donnas
they are reluctant to close down
the show while there are paying
customers.
♦ ♦ ♦
“K.R.”: A New Zealand
Soccer team is due in Australia
next month, and will play three
Tests. Last time they met was
in 1948, when an Australian side
crossed the Tasman and won all
four Tests played. Soccer is one
football-code definitely going
ahead in Australia —it’s even
made quite a bit of ground in
that previously unassailable
stronghold of Aussie Rules, Mel-
bourne. Soccer has the best
claim of any code to being
played on a nationwide scale
(as it is, of course, almost world-
wide, too). In proof of which,
five Australian States were repre-
sented in the Tests against the
Chinese last year, and a sixth,
W.A., was strong enough this
year to be joint runner-up at
the recent Soccer carnival in
Adelaide.
* * ♦
* Von Nida tied for second
place, a stroke behind the win-
ner, Van Donck, in the French
Open. The Belgian, who won
five Continental titles last year,
went round in 275 (66, 70, 68,
71). The Von had shared the
lead with Van Donck after the
third round, but took a stroke
more in the final round (67, 67,
70, 72); a 2ft. putt in that last
round which rimmed the hole
and didn’t fall in prevented him
tying for the title. A few days
later the Von again tied for
second place, this time in the
Belgian Open, behind Welshman
Dai Rees.
* * ♦
- Narrowly outpointed by Joe
Manners (10. at Leichhardt,
Arnold Hamilton (11.3-J-) was
good enough to give writer the
impression he might develop into
another Jerry JeFome. “Might”
gives the prophet plenty of lee-
way, of course, and there are all
sorts of imponderables in the
fight game. Still, Hamilton was
very promising the other night.
An aboriginal, like Jerome (this
boy is from the Northern
Territory), he showed plenty of
spirit. After losing the early
rounds, he kept on top of his
opponent: a left hook to the
head floored him for a compul-
sory count of eight in round four,
hut he carried the fight to
Manners from then on, and
points were pretty even at the
end of round 10. Hamilton won
round 11 easily, but a right swing
slammed him back against the
ropes in round 12 (the last) and
Manners had the winning margin
of points.
• • • •
Heavyweights (becoming rare
as the platypus and other shy
native fauna) appeared in a sup
porting four-rounder. These
blokes—Alf Moss (13.1) and
Enzo lorio (13.0) —weren’t shy.
Enzo, a very energetic fighter
who probably knows as much
about scientific boxing as
“Bronco” Johnson, forced Alf
from pillar to post in every
round, but Alf hit him with every
punch in the book, and won well
on points.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see' that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
m
55»
\t~2J
GALLONS
Rifles™
n
m
COR
-Jsjl
SjiSil
ft®
iusi;ij|
'""''"'"MmMiSMM.
motor
Oil
r AN
IHDEPENIEMT
h. SERVICE STATION v
For top-up or oil change p
choose ENERGOL, the ‘Good Companion ’ of C.O.R
the MOTOR SPIRIT that’s better than ever at
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd)
LTD
C193/757!
r THE GOOD
COMPANIONS
A COMPLETE
RANGE OF
AUTOMOTIVE OILS
AND GREASES
• . . equally suitable
for new
and run-in engines.
evaluation of any uranium-
occurrence.
Evaluation of Deposits
Fundamentally, uranium-
search is no different from any
other form of prospecting. The
prospector is concerned with
finding economic mineral de-
posits ; the miner with the profit-
able exploitation of mineral
deposits.
Successful uranium - search
generally involves five stages:
(1) Selection of favorable areas.
(3) Acquisition of prospecting
rights.
(3) Delineation of radioactive
anomalies and surface-mineralisa-
tion.
(4) Location of primary mineral-
isation.
(5) Proving a uranium ore-body.
Most prospects will be
eliminated before the fifth stage
without incurring heavy expendi-
ture. Proving an ore-body can
be a costly and heartbreaking
business demanding a high order
of skill and technical “know-
how.” The work requires
detailed and systematic exposure
of the deposit by exploratory
underground workings, diamond-
drillings and perhaps thousands
of representative samples. Some
deposits (“teasers”) will incur
the heavy expenditure of the final
stage before they can be rejected
as potential economic producers
Very few ore-bodies can be
completely proved at the outset.
It is usual to establish a minimum
economic tonnage and then
commence productive operations.
Three basic factors which
largely decide the economics of
any mineral deposit are con-
tinuity, concentration and
content. Continuity is deter-
mined by the arrangement of
valuable material in a deposit.
Discontinuous ore-bodies are
difficult to prove and costly to
operate. The continuity of a
deposit is tested by exposing and
sampling at regular and impartial
intervals —not at positions where
the ore looks good.
Concentration or richness of
a deposit measures the extent of
dilution by worthless material.
Concentration is measured by
average assay. Assays alone do
not decide the value of a mineral
deposit. For example, isolated
pockets of torbernite, maybe
containing a few pounds of
uranium-oxide, might assay up
to 60 per cent. U 3 0 8 .
Market-price and content of
valuable mineral determine the
gross value of any deposit. The
content in tons is calculated by
the product of the average assay
and'the tonnage of the deposit..
Tonnage is calculated by dividing
the product of length, depth and
true width by an experimentally
determined ore-density factor.
Most ore-bodies are sheet-like in
shape, long in two dimensions
and thin in the third. The third
dimension is called true width,
and is measured at right-angles
to the plane of the ore-body.
The surface-length and true
width are obtained by sampling
natural outcrops and supple-
mentary exposures in shallow
workings. Dimensions in depth
are determined by exposing the
lode in underground workings
and/or diamond-drill holes.
Diamond-drilling is frequently
employed to test ore-bodies in
depth. With steeply inclined
deposits the usual practice is to
site a drilling-rig at one side of
the lode-outcrop and drill a de-
pressed hole to intersect the lode
at some predetermined depth.
Drill-intersections are usually
inclined widths which must be
reduced to true width for calcu-
lations of metal-content. The
same correction must be applied
to surface samples which have
been cut obliquely across the
plane of the deposit.
To be of value, samples must
closely represent the true concen-
tration and width of the vein at
the sampling - point. Cutting
representative hand-samples is a
difficult job at any time. Even
the honest sampler unconsciously
tends to overcut rich sections of
the vein. Hand-cut samples are
generally richer than the true
value.
Provided full core-recovery is
obtained core drill-holes provide
excellent samples. Unfortunately
most ore-bodies are associated
with broken ground of varying
hardness and full core recovery
is difficult to obtain. Once core
is lost the sample is no longer
representative. Core - samples
may be higher or lower than the
true value, depending whether
rock or ore is lost.
Australia will be an important
producer of uranium. The
organisation equipped with the
necessary financial resources,
staffed by experienced and tech-
nically competent personnel and
able to conduct an unostentatious
search for uranium in a truly
scientific and engineering
mahner, will stand the best
chance of finding a commercial
deposit of uranium.
There are immense scope and
opportunity in Australia for an
organisation of this calibre.
a fellos
feeling
by Robert muzzay
ONCE upon a time —shall
we say, on February 29,
1943 —a man of no
marked virtue was tried
for stealing or receiving an
article of no outstanding value:
the sort of thing which is
commonly stolen, or borrowed
and not returned, or got in ways
honest or dishonorable.
When found in possession of
it, he gave a vague and evasive
account. He said that he first
remembered having it “a few
years back” ;• then that he had
had it “longer than he could
remember,” that he “thought he
had always had it, but that
couldn’t be right,” and that he
“didn’t know at all” how or
when he first got it; and he
agreed that he “might have stolen
it.”
He added that that was his
story, and he would stick to it;
and at his trial he did so, with the
same theme and variations. He
sounded most unconvincing, and
looked uneasy about it.
One Higglepit gave positive
and lucid evidence that he knew
the article as his by certain marks
and features, and that it had been
in his home on December 13,
1938, and had gone on the 15th
idem without his consent or
privity.
A plumber, whilst busily
engaged in accused’s lounge-
room on January 26, 1939, was
sure he had noticed it. He had
not spoken to the accused, who
was out-of-doors.
■ It seemed plain, then, that Mr.
Higglepit’s article had come to
the accused’s possession recently
(as the lawyers say) to the steal-
ing, but quite a while ago.
The issue therefore turning on
the honesty or otherwise of the
accused’s possession, counsel
addressed the jury on this subject.
His Honor (as sometimes
happens) had the air of attending,
but with some abstraction, while
making occasional notes, presum-
ably for this charge to the jury.
Now, both counsel were
learned and polished men, well
versed in law and literature ; and
avoiding psychological jargon,
they made their speeches lively
with wise saws and modern
instances.
This done, his Honor put to
the jury, in his concise and
accustomed style, the usual direc-
tions of law, with a summary of
the evidence and so forth.
He then proceeded:
4 6'THAT this article was stolen
some years back from the
house mentioned, counsel does
not contest; and you may well
accept it, since Mr. Higglepit
remembers all about it and says
so. The whole point of the case,
gentlemen, as counsel indeed has
told you, is: Are you satisfied
the accused, when he first got
this article, knew it was stolen?
Consider the facts, as put by Mr.
Higglepit and the plumber, Mr.
Botchley, Do you accept them?
Well, why not? Of their
evidence, as Crown counsel so
picturesquely says, there is hardly
‘the noble substance of a doubt.’
“Well then, the accused came
by this stolen article: that is not
disputed. What sort of an
account does he give you of his
possession? He tells you nothing
about the stealing, or how he got
the article, or what was in his
mind then. You may think he
compares poorly with Mr.
Higglepit, whose keen mind and
phenomenal memory must have
impressed you. Even Mr.
Botchley, with his round of
pressing duties, and no real cause
to remember this, excels the
accused.”
“This is terrible,” muttered
defence-counsel to his solicitor.
“And just look how that jury is
lapping it up.”
The judge continued: “As
counsel has said, with many
enlightening and classic phrases,
it is all a question what was in
the accused’s mind. Accused
himself does not seem to help
you much there. Is that because,
as Crown counsel puts it; ‘There
are none so dumb as those who
will not think’? He also says,
on slightly mangled authority:
‘By their deeds you shall know
them’; and he invites you to
look at the facts, and the
accused’s bearing here, and so
forth.
“Defence counsel, however,
reminds you that someone has
said that to fathom the mind of
man is beyond the supernatural,
or it may be the infernal powers
—I forget which. For that
reason, he says, you should
believe the accused, because he
alone knows, that he is innocent.
“The trouble, of course, is that
the accused does not profess to
know—indeed, he professes not
to know. Now, that might seem
to you an odd or unreal position;
but is it so? To help you to
appreciate the matter, I will
follow learned counsel, and tell
you a story to illustrate it.
w 4 COME of your elder
members, gentlemen, may
recall that in the First World War
there were huts or places where
kindly organisations kept, for
reading by the troops, journals
and some books —not to be sold,
mark you, or taken away, and
suitably branded to that end.
Long afterwards, an ex-soldier
of that war, a man of good eye-
sight and trained (as practice in
the law requires) to reason truly,
set out to re-read a favorite
volume. In the interval he had
done this at times, but then not
for some years. So, taking it in
hand, he noticed at once, in quite
a prominent position, an outline
of Australia and the words With
the A.1.F., and other significant
marks.
“He thought heavily over this,
casting his mind back and
around, as to how he got that
book. He decided that he didn't
know. His state, gentlemen,
could be expressed in the words
of a forgotten poet, which I will
now read to you;
I’ve had this book, in truth, so
many a day
That how I came by it I cannot
say.
Was it then stolen ? I will not
believe it
Nor that I did feloniously receive
it.
The fact is (if I don’t delude
myself)
I found it one day sitting on my
shelf
When of its presence I was not
aware
Until I just looked up . . . and
saw it there.
“That ends my story, gentle-
men ; consider your verdict.”
THE case being over, counsel
called upon his Honor, as is
sometimes done. In due course,
the one who chiefly prided him-
self on his erudition remarked:
“That quotation your Honor
gave the jury: it has a familiar
sound, of course, but I can’t just
place it. Do you happen to
remember where it comes from?”
“Yes, I remember that quite
well,” answered the judge,
“Haven’t I told you?”
“No, you haven’t,” said
counsel.
“Then, since you ask,” said the
judge, “I will say that it was
made-up for this occasion by the
man who found the book.”
“And I thought your Honor
was taking notes,” smiled the
other counsel; and then (for he
was a sententious man): “You
know, it does show how time
dulls the edge of consciousness.”
“Did you say ‘conscious-
ness’?” asked the judge.
“Why, yes,” replied counsel.
“Quite so,” said the judge; “I
thought perhaps you said
‘conscience.’ ”


SWSAT/OMAI
BATTERY IMPROVEMENT
SAFETY-
FILL
0$
Willard
e
m
S 3
H
*cn
C® 3
NO
INCREASE
IN COST!
First in* Australia! The genuine Willard Safety-Fill feature
is the simplest, most accurate principle developed to
prevent overfilling and the resulting acid spray which
can cause dangerous corrosion!
WRITE FOR FREE FOLDER. Send now for your copy of
the “Safety-Fill” folder that tell* about the exclusive
Willard Safety-Fill battery—WßlTE NOW!
illard
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. of AUST. PTY. LTD.
160 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
>s*
mmm
wm
K
m
m
m
Hs
m*
EVERY MONDAY, WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
AT 9.30 A.M. ON
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN
2NX, 2NM (9 A.M. ON SDN)
RADIO'S
BRIGHTEST
MORNING
QUIZ
compered
PAT HODGINS
There are laughs and
prizes galore every Mon-
day, Wednesday and
Thursday mornings in
the latest version of that
favourite of the house-
wives ’THE ASPRO
SHOW.” There’s cash
or valuable merchandise
to be won, plus a com-
plete wardrobe worth
£l5O for each daily
winner of the “Glamour
Girl Quiz.” Listen, too,
for the good turn of the
day in this wonderful
half hour compered by
happy Pat Hodgins.
MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RED CHINA—U.S. ATTITUDE
Setting out his views on the
admission of Communist China
to the United Nations, the U.S.
Secretary of State, John Foster
Dulles, said in Washington that
“the record of the Chinese Com-
munist regime is such that it is,
in my opinion, clearly not
qualified to be seated in the
United Nations”:
“At San Francisco in 1945,
when the U.N. Charter was
drawn, there was at that time a
very considerable argument on
whether the U.N. should be a
universal body which would
represent all the Governments of
the world, good, bad or indif-
ferent, or whether membership
should be on a selective basis.
That was strongly argued at San
Francisco and the proponents of
selectivity won.
“That is reflected by the pro-
vision in the Charter that
members should be peace-loving
and able and willing to discharge
their obligations under the
Charter. That is strengthened
furthermore by the provision that
any nation against which enforce-
ment action was taken should be
liable to suspension from
membership in the U.N. In other
words, the U.N. was not set up
to be a reformatory. It was
assumed that you would be good
before' you got in and not that
being in would make you good.
“The United States, basing
itself on the principles of the
Charter, which are clear, takes
the position that the Communist
regime is disqualified by its con-
sistent record of opposition to the
principles of the United Nations.
In Korea it carried on war
against the U.N. At the Geneva
Conference it continuously de-
nounced the United Nations. It
has been the subject of enforce-
ment action recommended by the
United Nations. In South-East
Asia it promoted aggression. All
of these facts combine to make
a case which shows we [America]
do not believe that the requisite
vote can be found to admit the
Communist regime to represent
China in the U.N.”
That statement, and President
Eisenhower’s stand on the same
grounds, is so thoroughly sup-
ported by the U.S. Press that
there can’t be much doubt about
American feeling in general on
the subject. Typical Press
comment:
New York “Herald Tribune.”
—“President Eisenhower said, as
he so frequently does, the plain
and incontrovertible thing in
speaking of Communist China —
he is steadfastly opposed to
entrance of Red China into the
United Nations while it continues
in its present ways. At the same
time he thinks it unwise to decide
now, in advance, what course we
[America] should take were Red
China to be advanced despite our
proposition. He does not believe
in giving up before the battle has
even been waged.
“There is an extraordinary
degree of unity in both parties
and throughout the country on
the profound undesirability of
admitting Communist China in
present circumstances. The
regime stands branded as an
aggressor, still refusing to make
a settlement in Korea, and with
no proof whatsoever that it will
keep, such arrangements as it
makes in South-East Asia, This
unity of opinion is what needs
to be stressed. To add dogmatic
assertions about leaving the U.N.
only creates false divisions.”
“New York Times.”
“President Eisenhower plainly
and forcefully expresses his
unaltered opposition to admitting
Communist China under present
conditions, and on this score we
feel certain that he voices the
sentiment of the great majority of
the American people.
“The United States is, of
course, only one member of the
United Nations, and the Presi-
dent clearly indicates that the
United States does not propose
to dictate to that organisation.
But the U.S. has bothjthe right
and the duty to make*its views
known and to fight for their
adoption with all the means at
its disposal. It has this right
and duty not only because of its
special interests and commit-
ments in Korea, Japan, Formosa
and the Pacific, now threatened
by the Communist advance, but
also because the admission of
Communist China under existing
circumstances would mean both
a moral disaster to the U.N. and
a change of its character so
drastic as to defeat the principal
purpose for which it was created.
“For Communist China has
patently failed to qualify as a
‘peace-loving’ State. It has
openly engaged in outright
aggression in Korea, in defiance
of, and actually at war with, the
United Nations, and it has been
formally condemned as an
aggressor by the United Nations.
—“New York Times”
CHINA SHADOW
What is more, it* is still at war
with the U.N., preventing it
from carrying its proclaimed
objective of establishing all
Korea as a unified, independent
and democratic State. To admit
Communist China under such
conditions would be tantamount
to a United Nations surrender
which could open the floodgates
to new aggression and more
war.”
“Philadelphia Inquirer.”
“The President did not take a
position that Red China never
can be admitted to the U.N.
Instead, he stressed that a record
of deeds could convince the U.S.
that Red China was entitled to
U.N. entry.
“But, as the President again
pointed out, Red China has not
made one single conciliatory
move, has not retracted one of
its aggressive acts; has in no way
sought to prove it is able to live
up to the principles embodied in
the U.N. Charter.
“It is timely that President
Eisenhower should have re-
minded the world, the free world
especially, of these truths. The
real issue is not whether the
United States will abandon the
United Nations. The real issue
is whether the United Nations
will abandon the basic principles
upon which it was founded.”
“Christian Science Monitor” —
“The U.S. objection to U.N.
membership for Communist
China does not rest on mere dis-
taste for Communism as an
ideology, however much of a
force that sound distaste may be.
The logical objection, and it is
one which ought to be shared by
all nations which wish to preserve
the moral authority of the U.N.,
is this: Communist China has
not yet even begun to purge
itself of the military aggression
in Korea, for which it stands
indicted by the U.N.’s own reso-
lution of February 1, 1951.”
Columnist David Lawrence :
“President Eisenhower has
undertaken to mobilise the moral
force of the world to make sure
that the aggressor Government
of Red China will not be
admitted to the United Nations.
“No longer is the issue one of
domestic controversy in the
U.S., since both the Republican
and Democratic leaders in
Congress have expressed them-
selves against the- proposal.
“The President does not say
what America’s position will be
if outvoted in the United Nations
Assembly, but he does say that
he hasn’t reached a decision on
it because he feels confident that
the battle against admission of
Red China can be won.”
“Washington Post and Times
Herald.” “The movement
sparked by Senate majority-
leader Knowland to take the
United States out of the United
Nations if Red China should be
admitted would destroy the U.N.
and thus leave the free world
helpless.
“While it is true that many
Americans are incensed over the
prospect that Communist China
may be proposed for U.N.
membership by the Assembly, the
United States is not in the habit
of attempting suicide.,because or
policy disagreements with its
friends.
“It is a pity President Eisen-
hower did not emphasise this
danger. Instead of leaving the
issue to future decision, he should
have made it unmistakably plain
that this country will not scuttle
the U.N.”
Geneva and Indo-China
There is a certain Yankee
candor about the following
“U.S. News and -World Report”*
assessment of events in Europe
and Indo-China:
“Things are falling apart for
the West in both Europe and
Asia. Indo-China is slipping
into Communist hands and the
West is not intervening. The
Geneva Conference is a flop.
France, a key U.S. ally, is in the
deepest kind of trouble. Its
empire in Asia is going down the
drain and its empire in North
Africa is close to revolt. Its
power in Europe is crippled by
Governmental paralysis in Paris.
“A European Army, long


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
sf=
jACK-SON 4
ciSiuxrvAj?
t rtma
swc
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Fergnson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
For easier.
quicker.
a;**/'
shaving!
Gillette
0® MBS DISPENSER
wmm
•;-N>NV\^Xv
■
sssa
&eS*SgSL
mm
rrX
M\\\
>
ly
r.
A new blade
in a flash!
and...a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
and it costs you nothing extra
~. you pay only for the blades!
CO
NEW 10-Blade
DISPENSER ... O f 9
10 Blade PACKET ... 3/9
5 Blade PACKET - . . 1/10i
20 Blade DISPENSER . . 7/6
BLUE
Gillett
blades
•GOOD MORNINGS' BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
urged by the U.S., is not coming
into being. The Franco-German
alliance, built around a European
Army, is a fading vision.
“This is exactly the way the
Communists want things to go,
and the U.S. thus faces that
‘agonising reappraisal’ of foreign
policy mentioned by U.S. Secre-
tary of State Dulles.
“At Geneva the Communist
tactics have been to stall negotia-
tions while fighting on in Indo-
China until they capture the Red
River Delta, and perhaps more.
The U.S, decision not to
intervene in Indo-China is a clear
sign—as Communists take it—
that they can safely push on in
Indo-China without risking world
war.
“When the Russians first came
to Geneva they were apparently
worried about American inter-
vention in Indo-China. So they
negotiated cautiously and even
made what looked like conces-
sions. But when it became clear
that the U.S. would not send
planes or troops to Indo-China
the Russians changed their tune.
Now the Russians as well as the
Chinese Communists are con-
vinced they can take the delta,
Hanoi and perhaps Haiphong
with little risk of U.S. interven-
tion.
“While Communist diplomats
mark time at Geneva, Com-
munist generals exploit a military
advantage in Indo-China in order
to grab still more territory.
Military gains, in turn, give Com-
munist diplomats more to
bargain with and enable them to
extract still better terms from
tl}e Allied negotiators.
“That wasn’t the way it was
worked in Korea. There, when
the Communist forces faced
defeat, Moscow called for a
ceasefire and negotiations. The
Allies halted their attack. Under
cover of talk, the Communists
then built up military power and
the Allied power advantage was
lost.
“In Indo-China the Com-
munists are not giving up military
advantage as the U.N. did in
Korea, Instead, they're playing
it for all they’re worth, both in
the negotiations at Geneva and
on the battlefield in Indo-China.
“To the Communists, power is
what talks. Unless and until the
Allies can match Communist
power in Indo-China, they can’t
get very far in Geneva.
“The trip to Geneva turned
out to be a paying investment for
Chou En-lai, Communist China’s
Premier. He can report these
accomplishments: The U.S.,
reluctant to negotiate with Com-
munist China on anything, has, in
fact, begun negotiations for the
release of American citizens held
in China.
“Britain is inviting China to
send a special trade mission to
London, and British Leftists are
urging closer relations with Com-
munist China, regardless of U.S.
views. Leaders of Britain’s Labor
party will visit Peking in August.
Harold Wilson, a prominent
Laborite, after talking with
Chou, says this: ‘For the first
time the Chinese are in contact
with the West —and on equal
terms as a great nation.’
“Chou En-lai, at Geneva, can
feel pleased with his trip. He
now has eager helpers in Europe,
regardless of war in Indo-China
and U.S.-British relations,”
Australian Wool
“Wool,” comments London
“Financial Times” in an editorial
assessment of current prospects,
“provides Australia with some-
thing like One-half of its foreign-
currency earnings. Fortunately
the current wool season looks
like being one of the best in
Australia’s history.
“Total earnings are expected
to be about equal to last year’s
figures, and second only to the
boom year of 1950-51, when
buying was inflated by the
Korean war scare. Prices seem
to be hardening as the season
draws to a close.
“Output was slightly less than
in 1952-53. This was not
unexpected, as much of the rapid
increase in raw-wool production
in 1952-53 was a once-for-all
effect of the spread of myxo-
matosis among Australia’s
swarming rabbit population,
with consequent improvements
in pastures. Drier conditions
last year contributed to • a
reduced Merino clip in Australia,
and in the world as a whole
wool-supply was slightly below
the level of effective world
demand.
“The strength of Australia’s
position received dramatic con-
firmation by the failure of the
Russian boycott to exert any
significant influence on prices.
“The outlook for next season,”
the “Financial Times” continues,
“is reasonably promising. The
indications are that commercial
stocks, while possibly larger
than a year ago, are by no
means excessive. The U.S.
woollen-textiles industry is at
last showing signs of recovery
from recession. But the most
important markets for Australian
wool are in the U.K., Western
Europe and Japan. Japan has
been a heavy buyer this season,
though in view of its desperate
economic situation it is open
to question whether the same
level of sales can be maintained
next year.
“The current and prospective
weakness of wheat, and the lower
earnings this year of many other
Australian export producers,
throw an even greater emphasis
on wool-sales as a prop to the
Australian economy. In the
long term oil may become a
substantial earner of foreign
currency, but in the meantime it
is not entirely healthy for a
country —especially one which
has come to expect so high a
standard of living as Australia
—to rely for its wellbeing on a
single export.
“At the moment, it is true,
the Australian economy looks in
remarkably good shape. Foreign
capital is flowing into the
country at a generally satis-
factory rate. The economy is
operating at full stretch, but
without the inflationary pressure
which has been endemic .over
most of the post-war period.
“Nevertheless, there are signs
that this inflationary pressure
may be returning. It was
indeed fortunate that in the
elections recently concluded
Mr. Menzies was able to secure
his re-election without having
to give too many hostages to
fortune in the shape of lavish
Welfare State promises. But his
majority over the Labor opposi-
tion—which certainly was over-
generous in its promises to the
electorate—is a narrow one.
“it looks as if Australia is
going to rely heavily on a good
WO ol season next year. For-
tunately, the signs are that this
confidence may not be mis-
nlaced ”
Various Voices
Signor De Gasped : “As a
State we [ltaly] .etoo peripheric
make us maispensaoie, ana
are to ° poor m raw matenals
and autonomous resources to put
Qur in neutrality ,.
M Mendis-France ; “Ameri-
can aid prevented France from
drowning herself. It was not
supposed also to teach her how
to *?wim,’’
Harry n. Gideonse, president
f Brook i yn {U ,s.A.] College:
“There is much talk of freedom
ant j technology in India, but
there is very little awareness that
the material well-being of the
West is largely a by-product of
Western spiritual and moral
ideas, plus a positive attitude
toward work.”
“N. Y. Times'’ correspondent
C. L. Sulzberger: “High living
expenses [in France] are also due
to the political power of the
farmer, who produces food.
Food is a far more important
item in the budget of the French-
man than of any other national.
He spends two-thirds of his
salary on his stomach. He prefers
to be badly housed as long as
he can eat better than anyone
else in Europe.’*
Lord Woolton {Britain’s war-
time Minister of Food ) on the
end of rationing in Great
Britain: “This winding-up of
‘rationing is all part of the Con-
servative policy of ending restric-
tion and bringing back freedom.
As ever, our watchword is ‘Trust
the People,’ which is a very much
better one than the Socialist
formula The gentlemen in
Whitehall know best’.”
Gerald Nabarro, Conservative
M.P. for Kidderminster: “Coal
is the Achilles heel of our
[British] national economy today.
We should swing over as much
as we can to oil, of which there
,s an abundance. We should
f by CV f y means the
development of atomic energy
as a major source of industrial
power, as a replacement for coal.
Above all we should make it
plain to the miners that if there
is a recession in the climb back
to prosperity which we have
achieved m the last three years,
the miners themselves will suffer
as much as every other section of
the community,”
HarM Macmillan. Britain’s
Minister of Housing: In a
dictatorship it’s all much easier.
In a dictatorship, everything that
isn’t compulsory is U&den,
them. In ademSracylfde^nd”
on us.” Y P
U.S. Assistant Secretary of
Technical position
v/s-a-v/y the Soviet is less favor-
able than it was a year ago. Our
margin of advantage has been
narrowed, and we must face the
sober inferences to be drawn
from these facts.”


UNPRECEDENTED
DEMAND
for
/
A
A.B.C. COUPLED
Aluminium Irrigation Systems
meant disappointment last season to many
pastoralists and agriculturalists
Water properly applied at the time it’s
needed means heavier crops—better
pastures—increased profits. Make the
most of your water with an AMES
A.B.C. Coupled System, tailored to
your individual needs.
ENSURE DELIVERY OF
AN AMES SYSTEM
THIS SPRING
By Ordering Now
Roto-Rain: Controlled overhead sprinkling.
Perf-O-Rain: Low pressure overhead sprink-
ling.
Tow-A-Line: Power move sprinkler system
for pastures, row crops or orchards.
Gated Pipe ; Controlled furrow watering.
' ■
Revolutionary
PRESSURE
LOCKING
MAKES FIELD |
CONNECTIONS
AS EASY AS ABC!
Ball
Coupler
The “ABC” of Irrigation
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.,
p.O. Box 509 10-14 Young Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8U5095
Branches: Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and' Hay GD4I.
THE FACTS ABOUT THE
AGA COOKER
Regd. Trade Mark
are so remarkable they seem
almost too good to be true . . .
AGA burns continuously, day and night! Cooks by itself
. . . unwatched and unaided!
AGA provides hot water, too; all you could reasonably want
for kitchen, laundry and bathroom.
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption is
guaranteed never to exceed a definite, and very
modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor
how long you cook!
AGA's insulation is amazing . . . cool to work with, the
Cooker helps to “air condition” the kitchen.
AGA's refuelling takes only approximately ten minutes
per day, that’s all the attention AGA asks.
AGA is scientifically planned . . . temperatures are auto-
matically adjusted by thermostat . . . always “just
right” to cook immediately. _
■K The correct grade
of coke now in
ample supply.
LEVIN AND CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
POST ID-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
SB
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: MALLOCH BROS. LTD., Perth
“w /au/Iy *****
ln,a! " to 1.7 .** in
r,::
»«.V
Public Notice
I, IGNACY PIOTROWSKI, of Polish
nationality, born at Siberia, Russia, resi-
dent five years in Australia, now residing
at 12 Dillon Street, Paddington, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948-
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Their idea was to reach the
settlement on the Huon,
at which place we made within about
too miles, when we came encircled
on all sides By the Natives and
forced to Scamper away the best
Way we possibly could and from
that time we ad not anything to
subsist upon whatever which was
the seventh day until! we made the
huon about twelve miles from the
Bottom where we had the pleasing
prospect of seeing a Boat Belonging
to Mr. Munro, where we made them
hear us by hollowing to them con-
sequently brought to hobart town
and had we not met with them we
could not have survived many hours
longer. •
Besides sending out the boat
which rescued this overland
party, Monro dispatched a whale-
boat and the ship Opossum down
to Recherche Bay for the
marooned party. They were all
still alive.
The convicts who had been
put ashore were all assigned
instead of being sent to Mac-
quarie Harbor, with the excep-
tion of Hall, who, in Arthur’s
judgment, had taken up arms
when not compelled to do so.
Hall wrote to Arthur begging not
to be sent to Macquarie Harbor,
and prayed that his petition might
be favorably considered “as
Petitioners Case is Truly Lament-
able, as he has Suffered So much
Since the Capture of the Brig in
Coming up through the Bush.”
He reported to the Lieutenant-
Governor that he had an infec-
tion of the lungs, and feared that
“Macquarie Harbor would put
a Period to his Broken Constitu-
tion.” The following notes are
written on the back of Hall’s
petition:
Arthur (to the Colonial Secretary):
With regard to the state of Hall’s
health, refer for the report of the
Colonial Surgeon.
Colonial Secretary: Referred for the
report of the Colonial Surgeon.
Colonial Surgeon: The Petitioner is
a strong-bodied healthy man.
Arthur: Application refused.
Carew had meanwhile faced a
court-martial, being charged with
gross neglect of duty, fishing
being regarded as “highly to the
prejudice of the Service and
contrary to the Articles of War,”
In his defence the lieutenant held
that he had not left the Cyprus
merely to fish, but to question
Popjoy about the prisoners.
Carew was finally cleared,
although Arthur had his doubts
about Popjoy, whom he suspected
of deliberately luring Carew
away in order that the convicts
might more easily mutiny.
News was soon heard of the
mutineers, lor in October the
“Hobart Town Qourier” reported
that the Cyprus had been seen
off the New Zealand coast,
disguised and hailing to the name
of “Darling Brothers of Boston.”
Then at the beginning of 1831
Arthur was doubtless pleased to
receive a copy of a letter sent
from China to Governor
Darling of New South Wales.
This letter, from the British
ship Samarang, stated that
in March, 1830, seven men
had arrived in Canton in an open
boat, and claimed that they were
the survivors of the ship Edward.
Those in the Samarang were
suspicious of these men, but as
nothing transpired four of them
were allowed to sail for England.
The other three secured a
passage on a Danish ship bound
for Mexico. *
Two months later two more
English sailors turned-up in the
custody of Chinese officials.
They gave the same account as
the other seven, but in the interim
the British on the China coast
had been warned to be on the
lookout for the convict crew *bf
the Cyprus. The men were
detained and a confession made
by Dennie.
In his statement he made no
mention of the piratical prowl-
ings of the brig, except to say
that defections took place at the
Friendly Islands, where seven
men, including Camm, stayed
ashore. This left 11 men
on board. Then Brown fell off
the jib-boom and was drowned
and Dennie was put in irons by
Swallow, who feared he might
desert and talk. There followed
frequent quarrels, but no one
was killed. When the ship made
a landfall on the coast of China
about February, 1830, Dennie
was made to go ashore and stay
there. With him went Thacker.
He did so voluntarily, since he
had just had a fight with Swallow.
Eight men were left aboard.
Dennie said in his confession
that, though Swallow said he
planned to go to America,
Dennie was of the opinion that
the Cyprus would head for
Canton.
Accounts of this part of the
story are confused and contra-
dictory, but it would appear that
Swallow and the remnants of his
crew scuttled the brig or else lost
her to the Japanese, obtained an
open boat- and then went to
Canton. Another description of
the seizure of the Cyprus does
not mention the three men who
sailed for Mexico, but states that
the mutineers arrived in Canton
in two different boats, and when
their stories failed to agree over
the name of the captain of the
ship they had allegedly been ship-
wrecked in, four of them, includ-
ing Davis, were held and word
sent to England to apprehend the
first four, who had got away on
an East India Company vessel.
Three were captured when the
ship docked at London. Swallow
had shrewdly disembarked at
Margate, and it was some time
before he was brought to book.
Watt, Davis and Swallow were
tried in London, and the first two
hanged. They owed their
execution to Popjoy and the
good memory of the clerk of the
court. The magistrate had
insufficient evidence on which to
convict the pirates, evidently,
and was puzzled to know what to
do with them when the clerk
recalled that a man named
Popjoy had been in court
recently. This man, to gain the
magistrate’s sympathy, had told
the remarkable tale of the mutiny
and his part in the rescue opera-
tions. Popjoy was at once*
brought to the court and he
identified the men as the
mutineers. The Chief Constable
of Van Diemen’s Land, Capon,
was also in London and was able
to confirm Popjoy’s story when
he recognised several of his old
charges, for he had been head
jailer of Hobart Town.
There is no account of the
capture of the seven men who
went native on Hawaii, though
the “Hobart Town Press” in
November, 1832, does mention
that one of the mutineers, Robert
McGuire, was brought back
from Keppel Island to stand trial.
He was sentenced to death, but
the sentence was later commuted
to transportation to Norfolk
Island.
William Swallow, who some-
how escaped execution, was one
of those transported again to the
colonies, where he was, ironically
enough, sent to Macquarie
Harbor, this time under heavy
guard. After that station was
closed in 1833 he went to Port
Arthur, where jie died in 1834.
Of the 17 mutineers, only Camm
was hanged in Van Diemen’s
Land, on April 30, 1834-


Does Mr. Menzies
Really Understand
Communism?
Two years ago Mr. Menzies made a
remarkable defence of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, of which he is Chairman,
after Government and Opposition Members
had proved it was financing Communist
and pro-Communist writers.
The current issue of the League of Eights’
Intelligence Survey deals with the latest
example of pro-Communist propaganda
being financed by the Literary Fund and
examines Mr. Menzies’ apparent inability
to understand, along with many other
public men, that Communism derives its
leadership from the so-called educated
classes and not from the workers.
Another outstanding feature of the latest
Intelligence Survey is “The Great Con-
ference Obsession,” by the famous Ameri-
can authority on Communism, W. H.
Chamberlin.
Single issues of The Intelligence Survey,
4/-, post free. Annual subscription,
£2/2/-, post free.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN LEAGUE
* OF RIGHTS
(Non-party, non-sectarian)
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ATTENTION PLEASE!
To all users of Kerosene Operated
Refrigerator Units in the Home,
Farm, Launch, Factory, etc.
GET READY FOR THE SUMMER.
I wish to bring to your notice the
amazing new Adaptor for kerosene
burners that eliminates smoke at
well above ordinary working
temperatures freezes faster saves
about one third of fuel used and
will keep the unit operating in hot
climate areas.
Absolutely foolproof, easy to fit, and
for sale at 20/- post free.
An Adaptor is also made for Poultry
Brooders that eliminates smoke and
creates more heat.
For further particulars and litera-
ture drop a line to
ERIC COATES,
23 Ainslie St., Kingsford. FJ2339.
m
r.s
ARTS
Circular Chart* for all types
of Recording Instruments
for *njr class o» Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Special*?
Actotkj cu>«x<t U< Qmmmi
J AC mm '«■ O’SIILI VAN %
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
FAST-EFFICIENT-THRIFTY
WOOLCLASSING
1
( TUBULAR STEEL )
WOOL
TABLE
\ l Wi
ISO
CAN BE A FEATURE
OF YOUR WOOLSHED
Featuring roller top with non-rust,
self - lubricating, machine - tested
bearings, the Renlita wool table
will pay for itself in time saved by
quick handling. Only 1401 b. weight,
but very rigid, Renlita can be
quickly assembled and adjusted for
height by one man.
Obtainable from your
Woolbroker, or
LENGTH 93"
WIDTH s'o"
ADJUSTABLE
HEIGHT
2'Bi" to 3'l"
K.eA. LAIRD
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET' MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. 8U2614
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Bulletin staff writer wants fur-
nished flat, Sydney, from end of next
October.—5861.
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, own room,
quiet home with telephone, Mosman
or Cremorne preferred.—sB6o.
English family, husband, wife and
three small children, shortly arriving
from Taunton (Somerset), wants fur-
nished cottage, Sydney, inexpensive
rental.—5859.
Information Sought
(1) Method of propagating quan-
dong, wilga, cypress-pine and rose-
wood trees ? (2) Are any special
methods of treating seeds, cuttings,
etc., necessary? (5) Are any special
kinds of soil desirable ?
(1) All can be raised from seed.
(2) Quandong and wilga seed should
be put in boiling water and left for
hours so as to soften the hard shells;
also some should be sown in the
ordinary way of seed-growing. (3)
Loamy soil should be used with plenty
of sand mixed through it but no
manure. The seed-boxes or -pans
should have plenty of drainage in the
bottom, such as rubble covered with
leaves, then filled up with the pre-
pared soil, firming same until within
lin. from the top; water well
and let drain before sowing. After
sowing, press seeds down with a flat
piece of wood, then cover lightly with
soil, give another light watering, shade
until germination, then give more
light and gradually do away with
shading. During dull weather take
the shading right off so as not to
weaken seedlings. When fit to "handle
they should be potted off singly and
grown on until ready for permanent
positions.
* ♦ ♦ *
(1) What was the quotation King
George VI used in his 1939 Christmas
Day Empire broadcast, the origin of
which was virtually unknown to Eng-
lishmen of letters ? (2) Who was the
author of the lines?
(1) “I said to the man who stood
at the gate of the ypar, Give me light
that I may tread safely into the un-
known. And he replied, Go out into
the darkness, and put your hand into
the hand of God. That shall be to you
better than light and safer than a
known way.” (2) The lines were
written by a Miss M. L. Haskins,
novelist and poet, at an introduction
to a volume of verse called The Desert,
privately printed and circulated many
years before World War 11. It has
been suggested that the King probably
saw them quoted in a letter written by
a Mrs. J. C. M. Allen published in
the London “Times” of September 7,
1939.
• ♦ * *
What is haemophilia ?
The medical term for a diseased
condition of the vascular system, often
hereditary. Sufferers are known as
“bleeders,” characterised by a dis-
position towards bleeding, whether
with or without the provocation of an
injuiy to the tissue. When this bleed-
ing is spontaneous it comes from the
mucous membranes, especially from
the nose, but also from the mouth,
bowel and bronchial tubes. Slight
bruises are apt to be followed by
extravasations of blood from the
tissues; the swollen joints (knee
especially) of a bleeder are probably
due, in the first instance, to the escape
of blood into the joint cavity or
synovial membrane. It is always from
the smallest vessels that the “blood
escapes, and may do in such quantities
as to cause death in a few hours.
♦ * * *
What are the boundaries of N. S.
Wales?
On the east the South Pacific
Ocean from Point Danger to Cape
Howe; on the west, the 141st meridian
of east longitude; on the north, the
29th parallel of south latitude, pro-
ceeding east to the Barwon River, and
thereafter along the Macintyre and
Dumaresq Rivers to the junction with
Tenterfield Creek; thence along the
crest of a spur of the Great Dividing
Range, the crest of that range north
to the Macpherson Range, and along
the crest Of the Macpherson Range
east to the sea; on the south, the
southern bank of the Murray River to
its source at the head of the river
Indi, thence by a direct marked line
to Cape Howe.
* * ♦ «
How many species of wombat are
there, and in what States are they to
be found?
Of the four distinct species the
common wombat (P. mitchelh ) is
found in N.S.W., Victoria and South
Australia; the Tasmanian wombat
(P. tasmaniensis) is confined to Tas-
mania; the Flinders Island wombat
(P. ursinus) occurs on Flinders and
Deal Islands in Bass Strait; and the
hairy-nosed wombat (P. latifrons) in
South Australia. A fifth species, the
Queensland hairy-nosed wombat
(P. gillespiei), was described by De Vis
in 1900; though it is apparently
allied to latifrons, the characters are
somewhat contradictory; according tp
Heber Longman it should be regarded
as a distinct species occurring near the
southern border of Queensland.
* * * *
Some details concerning G. W.
Rusden, the Australian historian ?
George William Rusden came to
Australia in 1834 at fifteen. In turn
jackeroo and journalist, in 1849 he was
appointed agent for national schools
in various districts in Victoria. On
the separation of Victoria from New
South Wales he became a Parliamen-
tary officer. His interest in education
was pronounced and may have in-
spired him to write his histories of
Australia and New Zealand. Both
were published in England in 1883.
A libel action arising from the publi-
cation of the New Zealand history cost •
him over £5OOO. He revised both his-
tories later. He died in Melbourne in
1903.
♦ * * *
Who was “Australie” ? Did she
publish more than one book ?
She was Emilie Matilda Australia
Manning, daughter of Sir W. M.
Manning, of the Supreme Court of
N.S.W. She was born in Sydney in
1845. Visited England, where she
wrote for some of the religious maga-
zines of the time. She apparently
belonged to Charlotte Yonge’s circle.
She returned to Australia and in 1873
married Hubert Heron, a Sydney
solicitor. She contributed to the
“Town and Country Journal,” the
“Sydney Morning Herald” and the
“Sydney Mail.” She died in Sydney in
1890. Her only book, The Balance of
Pain and Other Poems, was published
in London in 1877. She is included in
Sladen’s anthologies, but her work,
which is so typical of her time, lacks
individuality despite her apparent in-
terest in the life of the poor.
* * * *
A recently issued catalogue of aii
art sale stated that Frederick Garling,
an early artist, was born at Orange
(N.S.W.)- Is this correct ?
No. Frederick Garling was born in
London and came to Australia at the
age of eight. Little seems to be known
of his life, but he has been called “our
first marine artist.” One authority
states that he is reputed to have
painted every vessel that came into
Port Jackson over a period of 40
years. Examples of his work are in
the Dixson Gallery and the Mitchell
Library, Sydney. He died at Sydney
in 1873. The details you mention as
being published in the catalogue apply
to Harry Glede Garlick, who was born
at Orange in 1877 and died in 1910.
He was an artist of promise, and some
of his early black-and-white work
.appeared in The Bulletin.
♦ * * #
Can sea-anemones move from spot
to spot or are they permanently
attached to one place ?
Although usually attached (by
means of a sticky secretion) to rocks,
shells, etc., sea-anemones can shift
their positions by slow, gliding move-
ments of the lower extremity; more
rarely locomotion is effected by means
of the tentacles, which are used as
feet. In aquaria, tracks half an inch
wide and about nine inches in length
have betrayed the sea-anemones’
movements during the night. While
most sea-anemones are temporarily
attached by the base, some forms
usually live partly buried in the sand;
others again (such as Peachia) live an
active, free life. A species of Peachia
found on the coast of N.S.W. passes
the early stage of its development
within the large jellyfish Cramberra,
common in landlocked harbors along
the coast. Among other species con-
stantly taken in association with other
marine animals is one (Adamsia)
always found on a shell inhabited by
a hermit-crab.
Brief Answers
R.S.: “The Great Australian Adjec-
tive” by W. T. Goodge appears in his
book Hits I Skits I and Jingles !....
L. : Bread and Cheese Club,
Maeremai House, 44 Market-street,
Melbourne M.A.H.: Write
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd.,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney W.H.8.:
Norman Lindsay did the drawing,
and it appeared in The Bulletin of
July 19, 1906, as an illustration of two
lines by James Edmond entitled
“Trio” and which ran “We walk
along the gaslit street in a dreadful
row we three; the woman I was and
the woman I am and the woman I’ll
one day be”....T.L.: Sir John
Latham’s George Adlington Syme
Oration was called “Work and
Leisure and Pleasure —and Law.” It
was reprinted in “The Australian and
New Zealand Journal of Surgery,”
February, 1954 R.G.S.: The spurs
from cockerels may be easily removed
by cutting them off with a small fret-
saw or hacksaw. It is usual to cut
the spurs to a length of about £in.
from the shank. It would not be
advisable to trim the spurs of
cockerels under eight or nine months
old W.D.8.: Write Greater Union
Theatres Pty., Ltd., State Shopping
Block, 49 Market-street, Sydney....
C.N.8.: Write D. Raymond, 128
Bathurst-street, J. H. Smyth Pty. Ltd.,
114 Castlereagh-street, and A. C.
Crampe, 25 Royal-arcade—all Sydney.
H.8.W.: Write T. Allanby, Secretary,
The Lapidiary Club of N- S. Wales,
30 Colin-street, Lakemba (N.S.W.)
M. Write Brqndts Pty. Ltd., 371
Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.R.L.: Build
Your House of Earth by (j. F. Middle-
ton, published by Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .R.8.A.: Helen
Fowler’s The Shades Will Not Vanish
was reviewed in The Bulletin of May
28, 1952 C.H.: Write Taronga
Zoological Park Trust, Mosman
(N.S.W.) C.W.C.: No, The court
may on application of the one-time
husband modify or discharge the
order for alimony A.8.J.: Yes, a
joint-account implies joint ownership,
and where there is joint ownership
between two persons the whole rests
in the survivor on the death of the
other F.T.: The poem entitled
“The Soldier” was written by Rupert
Brooke, and will be found in his
Collected P0em5.... P.8.; The fol-
lowing books of verse by Charles
Harpur were published during the
poet’s lifetime: Thoughts (1845), The
Bushrangers (1853), A Poet’s Home
(1865), and The Tower of the Dream
(1865) F. 8.: Wash ice-chest with
a quart of hot water in which a
heaped tablespoon of borax has been
dissolved. Wipe dry, leave open for
24 hours, then use pure cold water
and wipe dry again W.H.A.: So
long as she remains married her hus-
band’s surname continues to be hers,
and she cannot change it by deed
poll or otherwise... .R.S.D.: The
Workers’ Educational Association of
N. S. Wales was founded at a con-
ference called by the Labor Council
of N. S. Wales in June, 1913
H.J.E.: Babinda (Q.) was so named
from the creek on which it stands,
which was named in 1881 by W. H.
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
Pettett, who owned land in the vicin-
ity, after a station he took up near
Nymagee (N.S.W.) in the ’seventies.
M.E.S.: If he leaves a wife and
children the wife takes one-third of
the estate, the remainder being divis-
ible among the children, share and
share alike. If there are no children
she takes the whole. All debts are
paid out of the estate V.O’R.;
King O’Malley died in Melbourne,
aged 99 years, on December 20, .1953.
He entered the House of Reps, first
as an Independent in 1901, and from
1903 until his defeat in 1917 was
Labor member for the Darwin (Tas.)
seat. He was Minister for Home
Affairs in 1910-13 and 1915-16. One
of the most colorful figures in Aus-
tralia’s political history, he was
responsible for the foundation of the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in
1911, moved the motion to secure
land for the Federal capital at Can-
berra and later called for designs for
the city. He was also given much of
the credit for the establishment of the
East-west Transcontinental railway-
line C.J.8.: Write J. Freeman, 33
Corben-street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
oh the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary,
V.M.R.: So your friends tell you
you should be making a fortune from
writing your reminiscences. We’ve
heard that tale before M.S.; After
counting 17 different characters in the
first three pages we threw in the
towel L.L.: Gavin Casey can run
rings around you in that particular
field K.J.: Cricket story bowled
out first ball C.G.8.: Your lost
city will not appear on The Bulletin
map E.D.; Idea is far-fetched, and
the writing leaves a lot to be desired.
M.K.C.: Tamely handled, and it
fizzles out badly 8.L.W.: You
overrate the importance of being
earnest P.P.: Your dare-devil cat-
burglar was imprisoned in the basket.
G.C.V.: All it did was to rattle
the door-handle D.McD.; Hasn’t
sufficient action to carry it into print.
W.S.: Weren’t taken in by those
slick confidence-men A.M.G.:
Couldn’t see the point of the story
about the trombone-player V.L.:
“The seductive waitress,” “the bad-
tempered stoker,” and “the handsome
young sculptor” can work out their
little problems elsewhere 0.F.:
That “mystery cracksman” who has
been masquerading as “a Well-known
clubman and man-about-town” can’t
strut through these pages M.G.:
“On Again, Off Again” out again.'...
A. 8.: Amusing, but we’ve heard too
much of that topic H.M.H.:
Gory specimen on its way home....
WJ.T.: Somewhere between hope-
lessness and dull mediocrity
M.W.P.: Must you go to American
wild-west magazines for your charac-
ters? F.T.C.: You have still to
learn what to put in and what to
leave out G.N.: Where did you
excavate that skeleton? J.G.8.:
Declined with haste largo* collection of
“Smart Sayings of My Grandchil-
dren” K.O’L.: No handout for the
lonely swagman, no bone for his dog.
L.F.W.: Christmas-card verses.
A.F.H.: “I am a very raw
novice.” We know M.H.P.:
Don’t mind handwritten yarns
provided they’re legible... .W.E.G.:
No room for those “rugged men
of primitive passions” F.J.R.:
“Mondayitis” gave us a bad attack of
it 8.F.; “The Bush Fire” flickered
for a page or two, then went out.


KNOW AT A GLANCE
There's a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that's when
“The Bulletin'' Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
See BUZACOTTS’ “FARMERS’ BOY” Display at the
Royal Brisbane Exhibition
.......
m
The “Fanners’ Boy” with Plough attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, 15 h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2
Hoeing blades, lOin, Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
w
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
' guillotined!
Rotary Hoe
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.; GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney'. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land : BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York St., Launceston.
Launceston 2645; and 167 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowef
Cutter Bat
Other attachments include: —
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, Spray-painting, etc. FURROWER,
TRAILER, DUSTER, DISC HARROWS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State
t Distributor)
! Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
I BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
t Name
I Address
I
I
t
1
J
1
1
1
1
1
I
1
1
THE WAN on
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MACHINERY GALORE
'T'HE landowner of today is at
least as interested in
machinery as his grandfather was
in flash horses; possibly more
so. Everyone has heard of chess-
obsessed Europeans, young men
of brilliant promise who forget
ambition, women, meals, sleep,
in a daze of a black-and-white
manoeuvre. Well, in the bush
there are young fellows who
thumb catalogues and pester
their parents for another few
thousand quids’ - worth of
machinery.
I wish to make it plain that
I don’t belong to this class. I
had no intention of going to see
the Engineering and Industrial
Exhibition when I was in Sydney
until I went into The Bulletin
office one morning for a yarn:
then someone suggested I might
go out to the Showground, have
a look, and write my impressions.
It might interest my young son.
At the Showground there were
giant presses to stamp out a car-
body at one crunch; machines
that cut thick steel plates as
neatly and easily as a tailor
shears cloth; lathes as big as
railway-cars jhat rip ribbons of
steel off huge shafts of steel; a
crankshaft-forger which, with
three mighty blows, can trans-
form a billet of steel Sin. square
and 2ft. long into a crankshaft,
with only a little turning and
hardening required to complete
the article.
Everywhere were electric
tools; cunningly wrought hand-
grips making the fingers itch to
take hold of them and make
something. Things a man would
like to buy and take home with
him, so versatile and efficient it
wouldn’t take long, staring at
them, to justify the expenditure.
A little reciprocating saw to cut
either wood or metal (so much
safer than the old hobby-type
circular-saw bought when we had
all the fingers on our left hand);
a nibbler, a hand-tool with a
tooth that bites through sheet-
metal up to 3-16 in. thick; an
electric pipe-crawler, like a tiny
monkey, crawling about its busi-
ness of cutting pipes up to
sft. Sin. thick with a variety of
edges; an electric rock-drill a
small boy could carry around
and operate.
It does not come entirely as a
surprise to learn that a German
manufacturer has thought of a
device to discourage the lifting
of these eminently scroungeable
gadgets from workshops—an
extra fitting which steps-up the
power to a high frequency, mak-
ing the machines unworkable on
the ordinary domestic power-
supply.
Just as small, and even more
formidable in performance, but
powered by compressed or
pulsating air, are tools that
tighten-up nuts so that they never
fall off; remove seized nuts
immovable by sweat and
spanner; drive threaded steel-
studs through plates of structural
steel half an inch thick. And
the magnets—industrial magnets
huge and tiny: to remove damag-
ing particles of steel from the
lubricating, heating or cooling
oils used in workshop processes:
to find the miner’s pick lost in a
sea of coal as it pours along the
powerhouse chute, hoist it up
before it grates against the teeth
of the pulverising machines; to
draw the broken drill from deep
in the earth, at the bottom of a
bore for water or oil, and to
search with delicate, invisible
fingers for the scattered bits and
pieces come adrift from a header,
before the wheat flows into the
flour-mill grinders. And a
magnet small enough to fit into
a vest pocket, given us to find
needles in a haystack.
Diamond-drills, we discovered,
are not tipped with non-sparkling
solitaires (as we had presumed),
but are thin cylinders of steel
impregnated with minutely-
ground diamond-dust. They cut
quartz, concrete or hardened
steel. Grinding-wheels made of
diamond-impregnated copper cut
the hardest optical glass with
speed and precision.
Nails and springs in endless
variety were turned out by little
machines chattering like parrots
as they were fed from endless
coils of wire of various hardness,
thickness and tensile strength.
Mystery surrounded electronic
machines with faces of many
dials: they compute and analyse
complex things in offices,
factories and powerhouses. One
unattended booth had machines
for radio-induction heating and
radio-frequency wood-sluicing:
these puzzled us considerable.
A geiger-counter, a device about
as big as a wallet, cost only £5B,
and could be a useful investment
for a grazier with rocks on his
property. Specimens of uranium-
bearing ore (which made the
geiger-counter click excitedly)
looked not unlike rocks seen here
and there in paddocks at home.
The chance of picking up about
£25,000 seems worth the price:
just carry the counter round in
the ute.
Large companies, it seems,
devote all their resources to the
producfion of oils, of a range to
astonish and delight the be-
holder. Oil for lubricating the
fine cutting-edge of lathe tools;
oil for tempering steel without
shrinking it; oil for dozens of
processes with mysterious
names ; oil for textile-processing,
for hardening, softening, burnish-
ing and for preventing rust. Even
an engine-oil that becomes more
viscous when hot.
A Fordson tractor with all its
casings made of transparent
plastic revealed remarkable
things to people who thought
they knew how a multiple-
cylinder diesel-engine works. To
avoid poisonous fumes and
expansion risks, mine-locomo-
tives and the forklift cranes
used on wharves and in ware-
houses, are powered by sets of
giant batteries, of the type used
in cars, weighing from four tons
upwards.
For the landowner who can see
nothing good unless it has a
practical application for him,
there were spidery trusses, webs,
etc., for the construction of all-
metal farm buildings in the
modern manner: sectioned steel
silos the handyman can bolt
together to keep his grain safe
for ever ; something new in cast-
iron tanks, in 2ft. by 2ft. sections.
A scientific-instrument stand
had a hand-tally counter —just
the thing for counting sheep.
Also, a land-measuring wheel,
like the handle and front wheel
of a scooter: trundle It along
and it counts and records the
chains, rods, poles and perches.
Sacks of a strange material,
like oaten chaff chopped fine —
light, too —has a*stonishing pro-
perties of insulation. Mixed with
concrete, or other building
material, just the thing for keep-
ing the new house warm, or cool,
in the bleak highlands or on the
hot western plains. If you’re
building a house ... A
wonderful little heat-producing
unit, small enough to carry in
one hand, self-regulating, run on
low-grade diesel-oil and with the
thermal output of a large coal-
furnace. No mi dni gh t
stoking . . .
But it’s a shame to look at the
. machinery from the viewpoint of
one’s personal needs, or pocket.
There is the pure, aesthetic
pleasure of inspecting the things
themselves. They are all related,
anyway farming, industry,
engineering—in an age of shrink-
ing distance and quickened
tempo. In Australia, perhaps,
more than anywhere. Altogether,
it was the sort of exhibition to
delight any small boy’s father.
E. O, SCHLUNKE.
Blackleg
“H.C.”: The disease (of cattle
and sheep) takes a fatal form of
blood-poisoning. It is control-
lable but not curable, and in
N.S.W., anyway, it is a noti-
fiable disease. In New Zealand
(where it was introduced around
1889, in unsterilised bonemeal
from India) it is no longer
scheduled under the Stock Act.
Cause is a micro-organism
which can thrive in the soil for
long periods, by producing
spores; can be picked-up by
mouth by grazing animals, lying
dormant in muscles until a knock
or bruise makes the disease flare-
up, or can gain entrance directly
through wounds or scratches. In
either case, death can result
within two hours to five days of
infection. Cattle usually affected
are from four months to two
years old, and calves in good
condition are particularly
susceptible.
In N.S.W. the disease flourishes
on uncultivated land, particu-
larly where hilly country is
broken up by marshy valleys, or
flat districts are liable to flood-
ing. Until recent years blackleg
was considered a disease of cattle
only in this State and, even now,
a good many graziers don’t
(See reference to “The Keyline Plan” on next page.)
realise its danger to sheep.
Deaths following shearing, lamb-
ing, lamb-marking, crutching,
etc., are usually diagnosed as
tetanus or malignant oedema.
The same errors led to huge
losses in N.Z. flocks before black-
leg was controlled ; as it now is,
fairly effectively, in the two
islands.
But, even so, they have their
losses. Armstrong (N.Z. Depart-
ment of Agriculture vet.) pointed
out recently that 90 per cent, of
all blood-poisoning in New
Zealand is caused by the blackleg
micro - organism. Outbreaks
occur in the South Island during
winter, when sheep are fed on
such crops as turnips and chou
moellier ; worst losses in hoggets.
Grazing for long periods on
crops grown on infected soil is
now recognised as the cause.
First symptoms of blackleg in
cattle are feverishness and dull-
ness ; then lameness in one or
more limbs, swellings on hind-
quarters,* loins, head, neck or
shoulders. Skin over swollen
parts becomes tense and dry and,
if broken or cut, a bloodstained,
bad-smelling fluid oozes out;
skin turns blackish. As the
disease progresses the beast lies
down and refuses to move.
Cattle rarely live more than two
days.
Sheep of all ages can be
affected —from newborn lambs
to aged rams. The animal is list-
less and pants. Skin over swollen
areas becomes purplish, wool
pulls off easily, and most sheep
become comatose in the early
stages ; death in two to five days.
As in some other diseases, body
decomposes quickly after death.
Both N.S.W. and N.Z.
authorities agree that vaccination
of every animal is the only sure
method of protection: which, of
course, isn’t always practical.
Because of country-wide losses
in the past, intensive research has
been done in New Zealand.
Penicillin injections have been
valuable when there has been no
vaccination. Ewes (not vacci-
nated) have been given 500,000
units of penicillin intramuscu-
larly when losses from blood-
poisoning were first noticed in
early lambers; dose repeated,
when necessary, at 24-hour
intervals. The same treatment
can be used for losses at marking,
etc.
In the N.Z. dairy-country
young cattle are generally
vaccinated with a dose of five
millimetres of culture solution at
two to five months, between
October and January. Among
later types of vaccine is, one of
allum - precipitate with an
improved culture, which is at.
least 100 times as potent as
former preparations. In Aus-
tralia, the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, and certain com-
mercial concerns, have produced
excellent vaccines. Immunisation
is not effective until at least 14
days after inoculation.
Burn carcasses and discharge,
etc., on the spot. Don’t touch
the dead wool.
Crosscuts
“Australia has an area of three-
million square miles, and is
looked upon as one of the great
meat-producing countries in the
world, but it never ceases to
amaze me that the British Isles,
which could be fitted into Aus-
tralia thirty times, actually pro-
duces more meat than Australia”
(C. W. Strutt, agricultural adviser
to U.K. High Commissioner).
Above came from a long
article in “Agriculture,” journal
of the (U.K.) Ministry of Agri-
culture ; a very fair analysis of
the reasons follows.
* * *
“Production payments to
farmers, instead of price-
supports, appear to be gaining in
official favor. The discarded
‘Brannan plan’ of the Truman
regime seem# to have a foot in
the back-door” (“U.S. News and
World Report”).
« # «
“Nearly one-third of the dairy-
cows in England and Wales are
artificially inseminated” (official
U.K. report).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC,
THE...
#
m
HYCEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
of
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES . . . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the' soil.
ŵ
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.;
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
SINGAPORE
N.Z. :
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
. DISTRIBUTORS ■ ”
Hygela Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.).Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston
O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
BUYERS! SELLERS!
We invite you to visit, phone or
write to us, for anything in
REAL ESTATE.
PACIFIC ESTATES,
CONNOR PLACE, SURFER’S PARADISE.
Phone 824. A/hrs., Southport 915.
369 Queen Street, Brisbane. 89230.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Trl-Cal-O a contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
ẁ
V
os
cm.
BO* 4 *
11^-
trt^ 4
oH'€a£'(k.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINCt ®.PO to JSBJ,
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
“FOOT-ROTTING IS
EASY WORK NOW”
mm
l m
' ' <-5-
mi
>:*«W
—writes Mr. H. McCardel,
of Mokoan Park ,
BENALLA, Victoria.
. . there is no quick way of curing footrot
except by continual paring of the hooves for
examination, and I am happy to say that your
CRADLE - CRUSH takes the HARD out of
hard work and it is now easy work . .it
was less effort to put 2,000 sheep through
the machine 3 times than doing them by
hand once.”
THIS USER COMPARED
EVERY HANDLING DE-
VICE CHOSE WILD’S
CRADLE-CRUSH!
DRENCHING TOO!
Wild’s Cradle-Crush is the ONLY truly UNIVERSAL
crush which enables one to drench
••I found that in an eight-hour day in the old method that if wo each did 1001 sheep each, it was a good
day and we were pretty tired. With the machine we averaged from 300 to 320 a seven-hour day depend-
ing on how hard their feet were. If you work this out you will find that the machine is doing 100 a day
g by itself, that is 200 old-method, 300 Cradle-
Crush. Therefore, with a man’s wages at £3
per day, the Cradle-Crush pays for itself in
ten days.
While you are paring the front feet you can
watch your man do the back feet properly,
also you can examine your sheep for faulty
udder or pizzle and treat same as blowfly
strike, and I have done all these.
It is excellent for vaccinating on the
brisket for Black disease, also for holding
a sheep in the ,upright position for
drenching.”
“I found the most suitable position was on
the shearing shed floor using the catching
pen doors as funnel.”
Price £29/10/0 on rails
Melbourne
aa>
m
H
W 1
THE GREATEST AID TOWARDS THE CONTROL
AND CURE OF FOOTROT EVER INVENTED
WILD’S UNIVERSAL SHEEP
CRADLE-CRUSH
Available NOW from Wool Houses, Station Suppliers and Stores.
Manufactured by Pat, App. No. 22890/53.
WILD’S CRADLE-CRUSH PTY. LTD., 125 William St., Melb. M 83004
Land Engineering
MAX MUELLER, when I met
him at Cooma (“the capital
of- the Monaro”), found it neces-
sary to explain the difference be-
tween agricultural engineer, as
the term is understood in Europe,
and the usual meaning in
Australia.
When he said he was an agri-
cultural engineer I had in mind
the appointment, by the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Commission,
of a full-time agricultural
engineer, early this year. The
appointment was the first of its
kind in Australia, and the chair-
man had given the reasons for it
at the time: because of the
increasing mechanisation of the
area, the modem farmer being
“half-farmer and half-mechanic,”
and the need of an expert con-
sultant so that efficient use could
be made of a deal of expensive
machinery.
Dr. Mueller is a graduate of
the Universities of Berlin and
Munich, in agricultural science
and in agricultural engineering.
The Snowy Mountains Authority
brought him out to work on the
continuous problems the
authority will have to solve,
arising from the activities of
S.MA. engineers and big con-
tractors such as Kaiser and
Selmer, and also from the
activities of persons and bodies
over whom the authority has no
control; soil-erosion, destruction
of vegetation, silting and choking
of dams and waterways, slipping
mountains. The nature of agri-
cultural engineering, in the
European sense, is plain from the
nature of these problems. It is
civil engineering with an agricul-
tural bias. When we say “agri-
cultural engineer” we usually
mean a mechanical engineer who
has specialised in agricultural
machinery.
These are mostly in the Mg
machinery firms: where, not
unnaturally, they tend to become
specialists. Their practical value
as consultants to the farmer is
limited, not so much by their
specialisation, as by the com-
mercial tendency to tie expert
advice to sales-promotion. Hence
the value of the M.I.A. precedent.
There is plenty of scope, then,
for both types of agricultural
engineering.
The Keyline Plan, by P. A.
Yeomans, is a remarkable book
by an Australian who may be
called an amateur of land
engineering; a city businessman
who bought a property, in the
first place, as investment, and
who, through a“ combination of
circumstances (the death of the
manager ; labor shortages) and
observation began to apply
certain principles to the reclama-
tion of his land. These principles
are explained very fully in the
book.
It is not altogether clear
whether Yeomans had an
engineering training. In a fore-
word his wife describes him as a
“businessman of varied interests
with no (previous) farming
experience,” and goes on to
mention that when travelling
through country areas of
different States “in connection
with mining work” he often
commented on signs of declining
fertility in the land.
There are two properties,
Nevallan and Yobarnie, near
North Richmond (N.S.W.): a
division of the original property.
What intrigues this reader is the
fact that Yeomans has remained
a weekend farmer. How much
money he has spent on the
project isn’t stated. But he
makes it plain that he made a
number of false starts:
A good deal of time was lost
originally by too much concen-
tration on mechanical methods
alone without realising sufficiently
the necessity of understanding the
facts concerning the life of the
soil.
Also, at various times,
dolomite, lime, super., trace-
elements and so on were added
to the soil. Much of this, in
Yeomans’s later opinion, was
unnecessary. In areas where he
had used his own methods, after
two years he could detect little
difference between pasture on soil
treated with fertiliser, and
unfertilised soil. Some lucerne
and clovers showed definite signs
of deficiency during the period of
conversion to keyline cultivation,
but 12 months later were in good
condition.
The plan itself is complex in its
ramifications, and to really grasp
it one needs to read the book,
and consult the maps from time
to time.
One of these maps is repro-
duced on the opposite page:
however, to follow the plan step-
by-step the series is necessary.
Aim is the development of better
soil - structure, -fertility and
greater actual depth of fertile
soil. It involves new techniques
of cultivation; a method of
farm-subdivision and • -layout;
planning for clearing, water-
conservation and irrigation.
A keyline is a level or sloping
line extended in both directions
from a certain point in a valley,
called the “keypoint.” This
marks or divides the two types
of relationship, always in the
same vertical interval, that a
valley bears to its adjacent ridges.
In one of these relationships, that
above the keyline, the valley will
be narrower and steeper
generally than the adjacent ridges
on either side of it. In the second
relationship, below the keyline,
the valley will be wider and
flatter than its immediately
adjacent ridges or shoulders.
The approximate point of this
relationship change in the valley
is the keypoint of that particular
valley. A line, either a true
contour in both directions from
this point, or a gently sloping line
rising in one direction and falling
in the other direction from this
keypoint, is the keyline. Any
property that includes in its area
a watershed or water-divide has
one or more key lines.
From this basis the scheme
develops. Cultivation is parallel
to the keyline.
It is claimed that this method
arrests the natural tendency of
erosion of soil from slopes into
valleys, and the associated failure
of the soil on the catchment-
slopes to absorb a fair share of
the moisture is corrected, or
reversed. This method, in effect,
creates hundreds and thousands
of small absorbent drains. It is
not contour-cultivation, but,
rather, “off-the-contour” culti-
vation, a planned drift from the
valleys. There are various
modifications: on large areas of
long-slope country, for instance,
a line may be used to terminate
one cultivation area and form the
boundary of another. This line
is called a guideline and is usually
a true contour line. The general
method, it is claimed, cures and
prevents soil-erosion, but this is
“incidental to its purpose —the
development of fertile soil by the
fkctor of absorption.”
For a few years after 1944 the
Geography Department of
Sydney University took an
interest in Yeomans’s work, and
students used the property for
practical work. The results of
these exercises were later co-
ordinated by the Geography
Department into a complete
contour-map of the area; this
map was of considerable value.
In 1948 Yeomans had more time
to spare on the property, and in
that year he employed a qualified
geographer. Yeomans designed
and constructed several imple-
ments to get what he wanted for
cultivation, but the early ones
were slow and costly. They were,
generally, heavy and rigid. In
1952 Yeomans found the imple-
ment he needed, he states, in the
Graham plough. The big shanks
are springs, and each operates
against a coil-spring, which pro-
duces an oscillating, digging
effect.
Maps, diagrams of dams,
figures and details are impressive,
(Continued on page 35)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Money and Effort
American Professor Peffer says, some-
what enigmatically, that his wife and he
would “drink a very large quantity of
whisky” at the prospect of life in Aus-
tralia. He likes us, but thinks we are
lazy.
Why are we lazy? Because local
rewards for not being lazy are seldom
enough to buy even a very small quan-
tity of whisky. There is no more wicked
nonsense than the old saw “Money is
the root of all evil”; mostly it is the
root of even the most highfalutin hard
work. Composer Sibelius says musicians
never talk of anything but money, Dr.
Johnson said no man but a blockhead
ever wrote for any other purpose. We
know well that the cream of our artistic
talent migrates overseas in search of
oscar.
But it is this same pinchpenny attitude
that constipates our industrial metabol-
ism. Buyers in a U.S. department store
are paid double a salesman’s wage—
say £4O per week instead of £2O. In
many Australian stores a buyer earns
only a pound or so more than irrespon-
sible clock-watchers who offer the boss
as little as they possibly can.
We hear much, and justly, of over-
paid laziness; too little of underpaid
merit.— Parram (N.S.W.).
Pies and Plutarch
I suppose lack of space is the reason,
but there are two unaccountable lacks
in Sydney’s otherwise excellent Public
and Mitchell Library buildings.
The first; there are no typing-rooms
at the library. ‘Anyone making typed
copies of material is allowed the use of
a desk really needed by some member of
the library staff. If the staff requires the
desk-space the typist must go. This is
sufficiently irritating for the researcher
who does his own typing, but disastrous
for the people who are paying typists
by the hour to make copies for them.
Furthermore, although the library
staff is as courteous in this respect as in
all their other dealings with the public,
most students using typewriters under
these conditions feel a distracting sense
of being in the* way. Overseas readers
are astonished at this lack of typing
facilities. These days few people engaged
in research are prepared to copy endless
passages by hand, and photostating is far
more expensive than typing and not a
feasible process with some types of docu-
ment and print.
The other deficiency is perhaps less
weighty but, all the same, scarcely frivo-
lous. Nowhere in or conveniently near
the library can even light refreshments
be had. It is no hardship on a fine day
to walk down to the tearooms in the
Botanic Gardens, or a couple of blocks to
one of several small cafes in town, but
the problem becomes acute in bad
weather. There is then nowhere except
the wind- and rain-swept front steps for
readers to eat their sandwiches and have
a smoke.
There seems no reason why a small
catering stall should not make some profit
for library funds.— Bookworm (N.S.W.).
Car-stealing
Much that has been written about car-
stealing would have carried greater
weight if the writers had known a little
more about the topic. For theft an
animus furandi —an intention to deprive
the owner permanently—is required.
Where such an intention can be proved
there seems to be little complaint with
the efficiency of the law, but in the vast
majority of misappropriation of cars this
is impossible and the charge must be one
of illegal use.
In Victoria the penalty for this can
extend up to imprisonment for one year
(Police Offences Act, 1928), so most com-
plaints must relate to the leniency of the
judges. We must remember that the
judges are experienced men and fully
realise the possibilities and limitations
of jail penalties. Many of the persons
charged with this offence are young and
impressionable, and a severe jail sen-
tence might create a false persecution
complex and make them dangerously
anti-social. While judges occasionally
err, recent criticism has been ill-con-
sidered and unconstructive.
This is a problem which can only be
solved imperfectly inside the legal arena.
The usual offender is not yet so anti-
social as to create a threat to the
security of the community. The real
problem is moral and social rather than
legal. We should not try to escape our
responsibilities by blaming the Courts
for failing to achieve something which is
outside their/competency.— MacD. (Vic.).
Lady Dudley’s Work
It often happens that somebody
originates a really worth-while scheme,
only to be sidetracked into the blind
alleys of apathy and that queerest, and
most exasperating of all human quirks,
obstructionism. But the day usually
arrives when those who opposed the
original idea are dead or have been con-
verted. Then another person propounds
the same scheme and this time it is suc-
cessful.
A typical case is linked with the work
of John Flynn, now* justly honored for
his'wonderful work in establishing the
Flying Doctor network and the Aus-
tralian Inland Mission hospitals which
have proved such a blessing to the people
of the Outback.
Twenty years before Flynn started his
campaign for better medical services in
the bush, a headstrong, autocratic but
“ Files — hacksaw-blades”
charming and public-spirited woman had
attempted the same task and had failed.
She was the wife of the Lord Dudley
who was Governor-General of Australia
1908-11.
This was Lady Dudley’s scheme: At
every suitable centre in our outback a
small hospital should be established,
staffed by a double-certificated sister as
matron, a couple of nurses and a handy-
man. As soon as she made known her
plans, she found herself faced with an
opposition from the medical profession
almost as fierce as that met by Florence
Nightingale when she arrived at the
Crimea.
Part of it was due to Lady Dudley’s
lack of diplomacy in not consulting the
B.M.A. before announcing her plans.
She was guilty of another tactical error
in not enlisting church support as a
first step. But most of the hostility was
a senseless obstructionism which would
seem incredible today if it were not for
the irrefutable evidence in the newspaper-
files.
The people most concerned were all
for it. Sad experience had shown them
that any form of medical aid in the bush
was better than none. The time would
have come when money was available
to pay for the services of a doctor in
each centre—but the medical profession
would have none of it. They whipped up
such strong opposition that the scheme
was never given a trial.
A few years later the indomitable Lady
Dudley showed what she could do. In
1914, supported by wealthy Australians
such as Tooth, the brewer, she organised
a private hospital and took it to France
in spite of violent official opposition.
For a time it found itself without patients
but, as casualties at the front mounted,
it had to be used.
Then it became apparent that some of
the Empire’s leading surgeons were serv-
ing as honoraries on Lady Dudley’s staff,
and her hospital began to receive the
really serious cases. Eventually she
received the credit which had been so
long withheld.
Among all the well-deserved tributes
to John Flynn, room should be found
for a plaque setting out the fact that
Rachel, Lady Dudley, originated a simi-
lar scheme for outback medical services
but had the misfortune to be 20 years
ahead of her time. — H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Flats
Despite “Wackford,” who says flats
are “perpendicular slums” (B. 30/6/’54),
it’s the people in the flats who determine
the standard of living therein. Clean,
honest workers are no slum folk, thanks,
and they don’t wreck the joint, so, given
a fair place to start With, why would it
become a slum? Give the wrong type of
people a beautiful house with lawns and
room in the garage for two cars and the
pup, and you’ll have a slum locality there.
in no time.
Young couples raising a family can
manage quite well in flats, provided
they have an adequate number of rooms
and the parents organise their life so that
they can take the kids out to local play-
grounds or parks each day. Kids needn’t
be “cooped in a flat on a third or fourth
floor”; they can have their normal bois-
terous life, even if they have to walk a
block before they start scalping the
Injuns.
If blocks of flats were simply built
with sound-proofing in those flats reserved
for people with kids, all would be much
more serene. And surely we’re not even
far away from the day when every
block of flats will have a space which
can be grassed as a garden-playground
for the tenants’ kids. — Looby (N.S.W.).
Stage and Films
I can tell “Parram” (B. 7/7/’54) why
one Sydneysider does not habitually seek
out and frequent the many excellent
flesh-’n’-blood shows to be seen from
time to time in the harbor city.
First, I do not go to the theatre to do
it good. I go to be entertained, to relax,
and perhaps in the process to sop up
any drops of culture spattered around.
But the relaxation and entertainment are
the important ingredients, and I am not
relaxed in a stuffy-in-summer, freezing-
in-winter hall, uncomfortably balanced
on a rickety wooden chair or wallowing
in the depths of a slung-canvas horror.
I like to be able to estimate times of
arrival and departure and I am irritated
when, having in desperation taken a taxi
in order to be in the theatre at the adver-
tised time of commencement, I am
forced to wait 15 minutes or so for the
curtain to rise. lam infuriated by the
too-frequent postponement of the final
curtain until a time when the last trans-
port catering for. the lucky lowbrow
cinema crowds has long departed.
I know I am unreasonable; that
devotees are sacrificing their precious
leisure to put on these shows at all, but
I find devotees a strain. I know for a
certainty that if I go to “Parram’s” “intel-
ligent and well-acted French play”—the
one that is “naughtier to boot” than a
French film —I shall have to endure the
high-pitched, affected voices of the
adolescent intelligentsia discussing it
breathlessly at interval-time.
I can hear “Parram” snorting that my
rude forefathers sat in draughts on hard
seats in rickety playhouses and that the
oranges were sour. True, very true, but
the point is that they were patronising the
best and most comfortable that the world
of entertainment had to offer at that time.
For my money that is what the cinema
offers in Sydney today.
When the time comes that I can sit
in my own well-sprung armchair watch-
ing TV and smoking to my heart’s con-
tent, catch me facing a wind-swept bus
stop again at night— ever. — Piper
(N.S.W.).
Stamps '
The larger size of commemorative and
other special stamps (B. 16/6/’54) is of
no consequence as far as space and labor
are concerned. On the other hand, good
—and sometimes indifferent—designs do
gain from size. Pictorial and certain em-
blematic motifs need larger spreads, both
for clarity and artistic balance-facts
now stressed by etchers and designers
and recognised by P.O. authorities all
over the world, — Postscript (N.S.W.).
The Face on the Fiver
The people responsible for deciding
what goes on to Australian banknotes
seem to be getting as unimaginative as
the artists who design them.
A wealthy acquaintance tells me that
the new fiver carries the likeness of Sir
John Franklin. Frankljn led a useful
and outstandingly adventurous life, even
for his owri times when the world was
wide, but there must be many men with
higher historical qualifications for com-
memoration on Australian notes.
Franklin fought at the battle of Copen-
hagen before he came to Australia in the
Investigator with his cousin Flinders, and
then managed to get back home again in
time to be in at Trafalgar. He was
seven years Governor of Tasmania from
1836 (how many mainlanders recall that,
even if they learned it once?), and in
1847 disappeared while on his third
Arctic expedition.
Franklin deserves a place of honor,
but rather in England or Canada than in
Australia. Among our early discoverers,
founders and Governors, Cook and Phillip
hold their places unchallenged, but surely
the new portrait could have been chosen
from Flinders, Stirling, Light, Batman,
Macquarie and a few others equally well
known.— Mark OTolo (Vic.).
“The Wicked Grocer”
I lately ambled into a Sydney grocery
and asked for “One pound of mixed
fancy biscuits, please.” The lass be-
hind the counter duly weighed them, and
charged 3s. Sendee good, I returned the
next day, and “One pound of mixed
fancy biscuits, please.” This time a male
assistant scrupulously measured the
weight and asked for 3s. Id.
That was too small to quibble over,* but
on the third day I was served by the
elderly manager of the establishment. He
charged me 3s. 2d. I asked, “Do these
biscuits vary in kind or quality?”
“Nope,” he said briskly. “Standard
quality; standard price.”
As Chesterton remarked, “The wicked
grocer groces,” — Image (N.S.W.).
Co-education
Co-educational high schools as advo-
cated by the N. S. Wales Federation of
Parents and Citizens’ Associations pro-
vide a much more healthy environment
for growing children.
There is, however, one aspect of the
policy of the N. S. Wales Education
Department which will need to be re-
viewed if co-educational schools are to
become general. Many of the ablest
teachers and best organisers in the ser-
vice are women, and the only avenues for
advancement now open to them are in
the girls’ high-schools.
In America women are appointed as
heads of mixed schools in charge of male
and female staff, but here no woman is
set in authority over any man, no matter
how superior her talents may be.—
M.E.H. (N.S.W.).


but would lose something in force
were it not for the photographs,
showing the results. Trees, roads,
dams, in symmetrical patterns;
pasture and stock. In an epilogue
Yeomans says that Government
agricultural officials have visited
the property, but the scheme was
not fully developed then, and
“no explanation of this aspect of
the work was discussed.” He
offers every facility to any Gov-
ernment department interested
in examining the principles of the
plan on the land where it was
developed.
Also, if any other groups or
organisations should wish to
examine the keyline work,
arrangements can usually be
made to suit their convenience.
As we do not live on the pro-
perties, facilities unfortunately _
are not available for casual visi-
tors. Visiting arrangements are
made through the address on the
title page of this book.
Very little of the keyline
development on Nevallan can be
seen from the road, and none at
all can be seen on the other
property, Yeomans writes. *So it
would be necessary to go over the
properties to see the full develop-
ment ; which, anyway, Is in train
rather than completed. There is
actually less improvement in soil-
fertility on Yobarnie, after 10
years’ work, than there is on
Nevallan from two years of key-
line improvement. But Yobarnie
still contains areas of poor soil.
One would need to see the
properties to form a firm opinion.
But, with that qualification, the
work seems to be somewhat
similar to work done at the
Sydney University farm at
Badgery Creek —with differences
implicit in the central plan—but
to have gone further. Advan-
tages claimed for the scheme
are; it is cheap ; you can see
results in a year ; it provides an
answer to the problems of
floods and erosion. In any case,
it is most interesting, and well
worth investigation.
A query arising in the course
of this article, I looked for the
author in the phone-book. He
is an engineer a mining
engineer.
I. F.
Handling Parafliion
“Billjim”: A timely warning
on the handling of parathion, or
E 605, comes from the S.A.
Agricultural Department. Para-
thion is the most effective sub-
stance for killing lucerne-flea,
but it may also result in the
death of the operator if dealt
with carelessly.
Parathion, it should be noted,
is the active ingredient of insec-
ticides such as Folidal and Phos-
fone and various others with
trade-names derived from or
containing the word “Parathion”
or “Thion.” The preparation is
poisonous to humans if taken
internally, if the fumes are
breathed, or if the liquid comes
in contact with the skin.
To avoid breathing the fumes
the department advises wearing
a respirator fitted with the appro-
priate chemical-filter. Mix the
chemical in the open air. The
insecticide is best bought in large
quantities so that the whole con-
tents can be poured into the
spray-tank. This avoids measur-
ing-out, with the added risk of
handling the concentrated-solu-
tion.
To reduce to a minimum the
possibility of contact with the
skin, wear rubber-gloves, boots,
goggles and overalls. Overalls
and gloves should be washed
before being worn again.
Operators should not after-
wards smoke or eat until hands,
arms and face have been washed.
Using toilet sear, any slight
spray-contact with the skin can
be speedily removed. It is advis-
able to keep as far away as pos-
sible from the spray-boom, and
to wash spray-containers in
caustic-soda: then bury them.
A trailer-mounted boom, set as
low as possible and with the
lowest-possible spray-pressure is
safest.
Useful Table
“Gui”: To calculate the-
approximate size of a waterway,
for example the size of a pipe or
flume leading from a silt tank io
the main tank or a dam spill-
way, use these figures: —-
Size of Waterway area
catchment required
(acres) (square feet)
ABC
5 .. ..1.0 1.4 1.7
10 .. ..1.7 2.3 2.9
15 .. .. 2.3 3.1 3.9
20 .. ..2.9 3.9 4.8
2S . . .. 3.3 4.5 5.6
30 .. .. 3.8 5.2 6.5
40 .. .. 4.8 6.5 8.0
50 .. .. 5.6 7.6 9.5
60 .. .. 6.4 8.7 10.4
80 .. ..8.0 10.9 13.6
100 .. .. 9.4 12.8 16.0
150 .. .. 13.0 17.5 24.0
200 .. .. 16.0 21.0 26.0
A. Flat country, sandy soil, cultivated
land.
B. Gentle slopes, absorbent ground.
C. Wooded slopes, compact stony
ground.
If the catchment-area is com-
posed of different classes of
country, strike an average
description for the kind of catch-
ment-area. Alternatively, add
the areas required for each kind
and take 90 per cent, of the sum.
Smoking Hints
“B-herd”: Fill it and puff it;
the creed of 99 per cent, of
amateurs, the careless way of a
surprising number of commercial
men. I’ve observed men with
50 years of beekeeping behind
them torturing the bees, and I’ve
seen greyheads stung like blazes
for want of knowing how and
when to puff the smoker.
First, choose the fuel. Material
that burns hot with an acrid
smoke (wood-chips for instance)
is out. Soft, fibrous barks like
the “apples” of the western
country, the “stringys” of the
tops, and, along the coastlines,
the paper - bark *of the
“belbowrie” are all fairly satis-
factory fuel for the smoker. Rag
and bag, common stuffing, is
poor in comparison.
* Make sure the nest of the fire
is alight enough to produce live
coal, otherwise the operator may
find that right when he needs' a
barrel of smoke he hasn’t even
hot air to blow.
When the fire in the bole is
burning well, fill the smoker to
the lid, press fairly firmly down,
top-off, and smoke is at call for
about a two-hour run of robbing.
Always be chary with the
smoke. A puff at the entrance
and one over the combs with the
lid half-raised is enough for a
start. Then watch the bees.
Sometimes the smoker can be
dumped at the hive corner and is
not needed further: another
“He's just got back from Scotland Yard with some
new ideas."
time you may have to follow-up
with a puff or two at both
entrance and super - top
immediately.
The clue lies in the bees’ be-
havior. If bees don’t intend
stinging, the operator’s manipula-
tion of honeycombs means
nothing to them. They go on
with business as usual, filling the
cells, disposing of dead larvae,
unloading sacs of nectar to the
hive-bees. To discharge volumes
of biting smoke over such a
tolerant community is a
villainous deed: and, when
nectar is coming in freely from
the fields, such is the normal
behavior of the hive.
On the other hand, if bees
intend reprisal, all work ceases,
there is a rush of bees to the
surface of the combs, and the
first over the lip of the frame
spears like a rocket to, most
likely, the eye of the intruder.
Under such conditions, smoke
lightly, keep the smoker between
the knees where it is about on a
level with a double-deck colony,
and have it functioning so that
natural air-currents keep a spiral
of smoke curling over the frame-
bars. What is more to the point
is that, clamped between the
knees, it gives the operator a
maximum freedom of manipu-
lative movement, plus the salient
fact that he wastes no time
fumbling for the smoker when
he most needs smpke.
If a puff or two of smoke
won’t control the bees, then the
queen wants knocking on the
head for rearing vicious trouble-
makers ; or the bee-herder needs
some such reprimand for opening
the hive at the wrong time.
Sugar
“Dextro”: The sugar industry
in Australia is considered to have
a high efficiency, but it could still
benefit from scientific advance-
ment.
Sugarcane is a crop with a high
labor requirement, of which
some of the high cost is pro-
tected by a good home-price,
partly in the interests of a White
Australia.
Hawaiian sugarcane - growers
have their own Experiment
Station and Advisory Services,
and some of the best ideas on
sugarcane culture come from that
country. Latest findings at this
Experiment Station have shown
advantages in fertilising by spray-
ing from the air.
Completely-soluble phosphatic
fertilisers (altogether different
from our 20-per-cent.-soluble
super.) are quickly absorbed by
the leaves and distributed
through the plant, greatly
encouraging development of
secondary shoots. Urea as a
source of nitrogen is quickly
absorbed when applied as a spray
to the leaves. Potash-salts
sprayed on the leaves have been
found more than 10 times as
efficient as application to the
soil.
From the standpoints of both
economy and efficiency, there-
fore, much of the fertilising of
sugarcane crops in Hawaii is now
recommended to be done from
the air.
Repairing Tanks
To repair corroded
tanks, clean the iron thoroughly
with a wire-brush; be particu-
larly careful to remove grease
and mud. Wire-netting fastened
neatly against the iron by ties
through existing holes, or ones
made for the purpose, is the best
reinforcement. Wire should be
kept an inch from the bottom.
A 2in. coating of mortar is
sufficient. Use only clean hard
sand, free from sqil and
vegetable-matter and clean water
with a low mineral content. A
mortar of one of cement to three
of sand is the best. Too rich a
mix will crack. Mix cement and
sand thoroughly while dry, then
add just sufficient water, slowly,
to make the mix workable.
The floor should be done first,
and finished with a steel float to
a smooth surface, except where
the walls will join. Allow the
floor to set for seven days, keep-
ing it wet all the time, and don’t
disturb. Put down boards to
spread your weight when you
come to do the sides.
Sides are best done in two coats.
The first is worked well under the
wire-netting. The second should
cover the wire to a depth of three-
quarters of an inch. The first
coast must be kept wet while the
second is applied. Finish with a
steel float as you go. Above all,
avoid disturbing the mortar.
Keep it wet for seven days.
It pays to seal any hair-cracks
which may have formed at the
end of the seven days with neat
cement-slurry painted on. After
another 24 hours fill the tank.
The mortar will then set slowly
without cracking and the tank
should last many years. A
cement lining is particularly
effective against corrosive water.
Farm Hints
“Spud”: Too big a proportion
of potato-growers plant old
varieties which suffer heavy
losses, late in the autumn crop
and early in the spring crop, due
to Irish-blight. Many of the
newer varieties such as Monak,
Adina, Exton, Sequoia and
Sabago have good resistance to
blight.
“Kau Koki”: Nitrogen in
July and August for grass for
milkers in the spring. Pastures
will show benefit in two weeks,
be ready for grazing in six:
lewt. or more of n.f. to the
acre necessary for this quick
response. At that rate it’s pretty
expensive, so use it where it will
do most good.
“Billjim”: To prevent disease
in the poultry-run (after good,
vigorous stock have been ob-
tained), two points should be
kept in mind —litter, particularly
around drinking vessels, should
at all times be dry, and outside
runs should be periodically
raked-over to discourage ver-
min. In addition, watch the
woodwork of perches to guard
against red-mite.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 287
Across
I—Low part of Asia in his high
part of Asia. (9)
s—People from the Andes. (5)
B—People from the Andes. (5)
10—Forcibly compelled to pull ducks
to Kelly. (9)
12—Sandwiches where we may be
riding high eecckkcerrss. (6-7)
14— Tree. (3)
15 — Return of the prodigal dwelling
on the way up. (10)
20 —Batsmen opposed to the Kent
attack have to do this dramatist.
(10)
23 —Isolated shrine-covered peak in
central India is only half-abused.
(3)
25—Cook might discover such power-
ful mountains. (8, 5)
29 — Metro throws me out to an
American warship on the water
bride’s bundle. (9)
30 — -Country crocks and so on. (5)
31— —Renovate Mp West. (5)
32 — It finishes off a game spouse who
is partly black and partly white.
(9)
Down
1— Intensify hail before ten. with a
couple less in the layer. (8)
2 Pavement parent heel is one
coming between son and mother.
(7)
3 Falsetto note. (5)
4 Draws up the lawn. (5)
6 Cloth makes a girl enthusiastic.
(7)
7 Mournful ego to rue the enjoycr
(like me) of your suffering. (6)
9—“ Three Bears” writer has a little
\ money they are after. (7)
11—Whale. (3)
j. 3— j l dash to the East. (3)
16 — Republican marking spoil. (3)
17 — ft has teeth coming like Ginger
Meggs’s girl. (3)
18— This is giving me a stimulant
every 19 years. (7)
19 — The extent of leverage what has
been bought? (8)
21 — Urge feathers to tell a whopper
song for a start, and possess the
rest. (3-4)
22 Mars many a Mars-serving body.
(3)
23 — A Crimea disturbance elsewhere.
(7)
24 — Honey in a canter. (6)
26 It isn’t gainsaid. (3)
27 — Alice of the link between jejunum
and caecum, (5)
28 — Stir you in bloom. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 286


AIM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikmon St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broadford (.Vic.),
Botany ( N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which have
been planted out.
By wise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines..
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment,
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used fer bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is at
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year,
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford.
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war,
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SV2 MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgou (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £.2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M. serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
