

THE HOUSE
x
ds
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
DUTCH - AUSTRALIAN WHIRLIGIG — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3907
Wednesday, December 29, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
FAVOURED HOME OF SCOTLAND S MARY, CRAIGMILLAR CASTLE
ON a high rocky hill two miles south of Edinburgh and overlooking the
wide plain of Midlothian are the imposing rums of Craigmillar Castle.
Owing to its strategic location the site on which this historic castle sta
has been fortified from earliest times, and until 1760 it was the P r °Pe. rt y
of the Preston family. The large square keep, the oldest part'of the: existing
castle to which later additions were made, dates from the Nth century.
It was during the turmoil at the end of the 14th century and throughout
the 15th century that the power of the Scottish barons increased and the
feudal strongholds of these powerful magnates reached their highest pilch
of nerfeclion The massive keeps were enclosed within a curtain wall along
the Fop of which ran a stone parapet walk linking the defensive drum lowers-
Around the spacious courtyard were built the kitchen, buttery, hall, chapel,
Mab During FhiT period of baronial violence and rebellion the castle dungeon
or “pit” became an important feature, and those at Craigmillar were seldom
empty In some castles the dungeons, which were usually situated m the
vaults of the keep or beneath a tower, were only 8 feet long, 2 f c et wide and
7 feet high, entered only from above by a narrow shaft through whctt
prisoners were dragged to their trial in the baron s hall above. At Craigmillar
Fn 1477 the Earl of Mar, brother of James 111, was imprisoned on a charge
° f t l^ S OTde^ n ?o W^sca^pe er the^ e plague raged in Edinburgh for a period
during the early 16th century, James V, as a young boy, spent some time
at Crlkmillar Castle. There, too, Mary Queen of Scots recuperated after
( . illness at Jedburgh in 1566. Craigmillar was one of her favourite
residences B and a room in the castle still bears her name. While m residence
some of Mary’s French attendants were housed in a group ot buildings, nea
11,6 5?t e end of 1566 that Queen Mar,
held a secret and a fateful conference with Bothwell, Aigyll, Huntly and
Maitland that may have led to the death of Henry Darnley at Edinburgh m
February of the following year.


BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, will find the book you want—fiction,
sport, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red page
OLD AUSTRALIAN HOMES
Come, let us pity the rich, and from
a compact two-bedroom flat in a convoy
of fiats, upon a sea of concrete, sympa-
thise with the early Australian settlers
who had only a little mansion, made from
the simple stone of the district and slabs
of cedar cut on the property by no better
than assigned convict servants whose time
was not valued in terms of money, to put
in the middle of a hundred thousand
acres.
In Some Northern Homes of N.S.W.
(Shepherd Press), G. Nesta Griffiths con-
tinues her visits to large Australian homes ;
here she proceeds up the Hunter Valley,
following tbp almost to its source,
;reat houses along its
interest is less archi-
, and less social than
»lates are chosen more
s settings. There is
eriors and nothing so
an, or so definite as
the social life of the
tere is is good, and
impression that all
taken into account:
iken a lesson from
st ruthless and most
rs; and like the
rkmen in this style,
mixed old family
: happened to be
eople’s researches,
j Mitchell Library
■ x —* ..xiuse courses are each
me name of a country home or mansion ;
sometimes only a few lines, never more
than a few pages, few of them without
some special savor.
Miss Griffiths begins with Tomago,
almost in Newcastle, though she had
meant to have nothing east of Maitland ;
but “the attraction of Tomago was too
strong”—it is, of course, the Windeyer
house with the circular corner-room,
lately taken over by the Courtauld rayon
firm ; built in 1842 by Richard Windeyer,
descendant of a Swiss soldier, to the
design of his wife, Maria ; though Miss
Griffiths’s interest is chiefly in how Maria,
left a widow with a thirteen-year-old
boy and her husband’s estate insolvent,
sold all the estate but 850 acres and main-
tained the vineyards during her 32 years
of widowhood.
Next comes Tocal, the precise essay in
Georgian square-building with a Colonial
veranda set like an apron round its
middle ; built in 1840, made famous as
the home of the Reynolds horse-and-
cattle stud, and still with “a great future”
as a farm home for destitute and orphaned
Protestants under the £342,531 Alexander
bequest. On the other hand, Castle
Forbes on Patrick’s Plains has disappeared
completely, and this, Miss Griffiths thinks,
is “fitting,” because its owner, one Mudie,
was so cruel to convicts that, after an
inquiry ordered by Governor Bourke, his
name was removed from the Commission
of Peace.
The Dangars of Neotsfield were of
Huguenot descent. They were hardly a
one-house family, for a little after the
middle of last century, they had, besides
their stations in the Hunter Valley, Gost-
wyck, Paradise Creek, Bald Hills, Mooki,
Bullion, Karee, Myall Creek and Yal-
laroi, and when some members had come
from England to be in a settlement of
property, “so many stations were in-
volved that, rather than employ the help
of the law, they agreed together to place
all the names in a hat and draw for them.”
They had a way with historical values
also: Palmerston, where, as at Gostwyck,
the houses “were summer homes used for
the [Dangar] children’s holidays,” was
not named as a tribute to the great British
Foreign Minister, but to the Dangar friend
and manager, Arthur Hunter Palmer;
just as Jerry’s Plains was named after the
Irish cook of the Robertsons, Jerry Butler,
who blew his hand off lighting a damp
fire with a flask of powder and died of
shock: there Plashett was built by the
Pearses in later years. Glendon, built in
the 1820’s near Singleton by the sons of
Di. Helen us Scott, who died on the voyage
out, is one of the rare instances where
Miss Griffiths makes an architectural
note:
Glendon was convict-built of stone and
was at first the largest house in the district.
It was planned in two blocks of six large
rooms, connected by a covered veranda,
with stone-flagged cellars used for storing
wme and the grinding of corn. At each
cl of the basement were huge fireplaces,
where the rounds of beef were hung. The
Kitchen was dug out fifteen feet below the
surface and often barricaded against bush-
rangers.
cot t brothers brought their
mother and sister out; and the sister
married Dr. James Mitchell, whose son,
Dayid Scott Mitchell, founded the
Mitchell Library.
Belltrees passed from its origina
owner, Hamilton Sempill, to W. C
Wentworth. James White, at six
lu Cn ’ jk? The King’s School o
the death of his father to manag
Bdinglassie, Timor (away up on th
Isis) and Boorooma; he and his brother
bought Belltrees: the Whites producer
the James White whose former Sydne
home is now Cranbrook school, whos
horses won £121,385 175., and won th
double, Victoria Derby and Melboum
Lup ; also Henry Luke White, who main
tamed a staff of ornithologists at Belltree
and presented the skins of 10,000 differen
varieties of birds to Melbourne Museur
and his stamp-collection, valued in 191”
at £20,000, to the Mitchell library.
In the long, low, L-shaped bungalow o
Segenhoe in 1834 the Potter Macqueen
received the Governor, Sir Richard
Bourke: ~
At the point where Segenhoe first came
m t L v ! cw ’ 'hey were joined by an escort
rJ horsemen, including the overseer and
iJr. McCredie. On entering the avenue
there was a discharge of cannon, and the
fu “ ag was hoisted. During the firing
or the Royal Salute the carriage proceeded
at a very slow pace through a double line
or workers and their implements. One
hundred and forty-four bullocks were yoked
to 18 iron ploughs, 18 drays with shaft-
bullocks and eight teams yoked to harrows
and scufflers and other implements of hus-
bandry, All the attendants were wearing
new suits. As they approached the home-
stead the aboriginal chiefs of Segenhoe
and Duwarrow, with many followers all
grotesquely painted and armed with spears
12 and 14 feet long, were waiting to greet
them, while eight black boys each held
in leash a couple of kangaroo-dogs. David,
King of Segenhoe and Duwarrow, who
hailed from Waverley, the property of Mr.
Hart Davis, received a bullock, and the
evening ended with a grand corroboree.
Mrs, Macqueen took milk-baths in a
marble bath hewn from a block her hus-
band had imported from Italy, and is
rumored to have eloped with a young
doctor from Singleton.
Dr. William Bell Carlyle, surgeon of
transports, established Satur in 1822 ; his
nephews, the Littles, took up Invermein
in 1823: the township was known as both
Invermein and Scone until 1840, when,
on Bishop Broughton’s visit, “Scone” was
gazetted. “With infinite care” Dr. Car-
lyle propagated in the gardens of Inver-
mein and Satur a rare plant he had
brought from India, its fruit much in
demand from passing bullockies—the
prickly-pear.
A man brandishing a sword rode up to
the Everetts on their way home to Ollera,
near Armidale (which began as Armadale)
in 1842, mistaking them for bushrangers.
Miss Griffiths gives good space to the
several early treks of this family from
Sydney to Ollera (Sweet Waters) and
back. Besides being vivid accounts of
the difficulties of travel in those days,
these travels are roll-calls of hospitable
stations on the journey. This time, they
were returning with their young brother
Edwin, who had come from England to
join them, bringing a fine Hereford bull,
Maecenas:
A man led him by a strap through the
ring in his nose, and at night he was
secured to a tree by a strong rope round
his horns. “We carried bran and cracked
corn in a cask, and gave him grass when
we could get it. From so much attention
on board ship he was like a child and
seemed scarcely to know how to feed him-
self.”
Driving cattle and horses, the men
sometimes having to dismount and go on
hands and knees over the ranges, they
arrived in six weeks, John arriving eight
days later with Maecenas.
At Lake Innes, a 22-room house with an
annexe for bachelors on Port Macquarie,
Major Innes entertained vice-royalty for
a week. Specially constructed gondolas
ferried guests to “dainty fairy-bowers and
carpeted terraces along the shores” ; and
the main garden was enclosed by hedges
of that “rare” plant, the lantana. The
major was so hospitable that he had to
take a job in Newcastle; his son was a
temperance-reformer, and let the vineyard
go to ruin ; the lake dried up; the lan-
tana rose to 40 feet. . .
On the way to her new home, Salisbury
Court, Mrs. Marsh, whose brother was
secretary to the Governor, was caught in
a thunderstorm, and the party took
shelter at the Highland Home Inn, where
“I was sitting like patience on a monu-
ment, only it was a portmanteau.” SEe
was hard to dismay;
Ours is considered the most comfortable
of all the squatters’ places. It consists of
a small passage 4ft. wide with a door at
each end. One door leading on to the
veranda, the other being the main entrance
and way from the kitchen, which is another
hut.... Our bedroom looks really quite
comfortable, for you do not, as in the
sitting-room, see daylight through the root
as there is a ceiling of canvas, but the
sitting-room is only canvassed round the
sides.... The whole hut is of wood, long
pieces put upright, but not exactly meet-
ing, so that if there was no canvas around,
it would be airy enough. . .
She was another such as Mrs. George
Wyndham, admired by Chief Justice
Street of New South Wales in his intro-
duction to this book. Wyndham owned
Bukkulla near Inverell, and a great many
other places, and in 1844 he took his wile
and eleven children on a tour of his
empire, using 12 bullock-wagons with
more than 120 bullocks, “one wagon
equipped as a boudoir for Mrs. Wynd-
ham, with box-seats cushioned with mat-
tresses to hold the clothes.”
The Scots were remarkably honest in
those days, or maybe it was the Glen
Innes air; for when Peter Macintyre of
Waterloo (the Glen Innes Waterloo) died
in 1842, his brother, Donald, of Kayuga,
inherited ; but, finding his brother's lost
will a year later behind the padding of a
carriage-seat, he took it to Sydney, had
it proved, and Peter’s estate passed to
their sister Mary, on condition she did
not change her name. She did not let
this prevent her marrying—a Reverend
Mclntyre. . .
Stonehenge, near Glen Innes, was
bought by the Queensland station-owner
Morris Simpson in 1886. It had been
taken up in 1838, but the real pioneering
there was done with the new homestead,
for Mr. Simpson had been impressed by
a new breakwater at Aberdeen when he
was touring Scotland, and on his new
Australian property he put up a new
home in concrete:
Visitors from Glen Innes expressed
much sympathy for Mrs. Simpson, whose
husband was building a mud house which
they expected to wash away in the first
storm. The twelve-inch walls proved warm
in winter and cool in summer and criticism
changed to admiration, and maybe a little
envy.
There is also an account of Oswald
Bloxome’s Rangers Valley, its famous
McMasters managers, and the mural of
“H.M.S. Rattlesnake in a Squall” done
with crayon by Oswald Brierley over the
dining-room fireplace of the convict-built
house; how an iron frame was con-
structed to hold wall and picture when
the place was pulled down in 1912, but
the wall crumbled, so that now all that
is left is a colored photograph of the
mural (reproduced).
And the Ogilvies’ little palace of Yulgil-
bar, out from Grafton; and Duncan
Anderson of Newstead, a ‘/great patron
of the arts and very musical,” who ex-
celled at boxing, fencing and also playing
the cornet; and the Munfos of Keera,
who produced the founder of the Country
Women’s Association—in 1922 ; another
Mrs. Munro, in 1860, had to use her tact
upon a drunken aborigine brandishing a
nulla-nulla; and Terrible Vale, which got
its name from “Terrible Billy,” an
aboriginal stockman who liked to beat-up
his fellow-blacks; and Bergen Op Zoom,
which was named after the Dutch town
where two young Scots from Mull (place
of origin of John McLean who put the
name on his Williams River holding)
distinguished themselves in battle; and
the Lindeman vineyards, and William
Dumaresq’s St. Aubin’s, now W. J.
Smith’s racing-stud; and Segenhoe, that
passed through the hands of the Browns,
and Stephen Brown’s adopted son and
colorful racing-investor, Alan Cooper,
into the possession of Mr. Lionel Israel ;
and the well-connected Irby brothers, who
later bought Bolivia, who never learned
to ride, and in a hut some distance from
Archibald Windeyer’s Kinross homestead
found three civil convicts, one reading
Debrett; they also told the story of the
unveiling of the statue to Sir Richard
Bourke: —
There was a grand procession of Odd-
fellows, Freemasons, Teetotallers, etc., and
a crowd of some 15,000 assembled. As the
ensign fell from the bronze figure, an old
woman near them said, “Oh, my goodness,
he’s a black.’’
Henry Handel Richardson
Leonie J. Gibson’s Henry Handel
Richardson and Some of Her Sources
(Melbourne University Press) is a little
monograph examining The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony from one “angle”; how
a great deal of the scenery and even
some of the pictures of Mahony are
built-up from the notes which the
novelist took on her visit to Australia in
1912. It is based on material in the
Commonwealth National Library,
Canberra.
In the three notebooks which Henry
Handel Richardson filled with jottings of
historical information chiefly taken from
Howitt’s Two Years in Victoria and
Kelly’s Life in Victoria, with extracts
from other works such as A Lady s Visit
to the Gold Diggings of Australia in
1852-53, Miss Gibson found, for example,
the paragraph (from the Lady’s
narrative):
Great wooden tubs are filled with dirt
and fresh water & the former is chopped
about in all directions with a spade, so as
to set the metal free from the adhesive soil.
Some crush it with their feet... .After
having been well beaten in the tubs, the
dirt is put into the “hopper” of the cradle,
wh. is then rocked gently In the right
hand of the cradler is held a thick stick
ready to break up any clods which may be
in the hopper, but wh. a good puddler
would not have sent there.
In the novel this becomes;
Beside the pools, the puddlers chopped
with their shovels; some even stood in the
tubs, and worked the earth with their feet,
as wine-pressers trample grapes. The
cradlers, eternally rocking with one hand,
held a long stick in the other with which
to break up any clods a careless puddler
might have deposited in the hopper.
And in the novelist’s diary there were
descriptions of scenery noted to fill gaps
which had been left for them in the
draft of the novel: a train journey
from Ballarat to Geelong summarised
in the note:
Warrenheip and Buninyong still visible,
and blue ranges, which they would drive
towards, all day. Country grows flatter and
less treey. Hills rise like islands from a
sea of trees. . .
which became in the novel:
All afternoon they had been making for
dim blue ranges. After leaving the flats
near Geelong, the track went up and down.
Grey-green forest surrounded them, out of
which nobbly hills rose like islands from a
sea of trees.
It might be said, of course, that all
Miss Gibson has discovered in this essay
is the fact that Henry Handel Richardson
took notes, as presumably all writers of
historical fiction must do. But there is
more to it than that. Her point is that
Henry Handel Richardson' often failed
to transmute these notes into the vision,
the spirit, the mood of her story, so that
they remain prosaic and commonplace;
one might add, too, that one reason why
she failed to transmute them was that
she herself did not respond with any
fervor to the Australian scene. Miss
Gibson sums up:
Richardson’s failures are not so much
failures of intellect as failures of vision.
When her eye should be on the distant
horizon it is busy in the foreground count-
ing gumtrees, not so that they will add
depth and perspective to the completed
picture but so that we shall know just how
many gumtrees there are. The same short-
sightedness distorts Mahony’s vision of
eternity [in a quoted passage] and we find
ourselves sharing with him not a revelation
but a didactic commonplace.
More than ever, after considering this
viewpoint, one feels the similarity
between Richardson and George Eliot,
whose Romola in particular fails to
transcend the enormous labor of research
on which it is based. In a general way
this little book does not add much to
what is known of Henry Handel
Richardson’s methods of writing or to
one’s awareness of her defects, but it is
interesting to have the relationship
between notebooks and novel thus
precisely tabulated; and the criticism,
though limited to this one respect, is very
convincingly set down.
V2
We might find the comic-opera back-
ground of V 2 by Major-General Walter
Dornberger (Hurst and Blackett) more
amusing if so many thousands had not
been used to drop, each, something like
a ton of explosive on London.
Dornberger’s team started working on
controlled rockets in 1932; he being
detailed to the job by the German Army
weapons-department. From the early
chapters we observe that his group of
chemists, engineers and theorists were
pretty brave men, experimenting with
forces they could not predict. For in-
stance, von Braun poured alcohol into
liquid oxygen from a mug on the end of
a 12ft. rod:
Clouds of smoke rose. A single flame
darted briefly upwards and vanished.
Cables, boards, metal sheeting, fragments of
steel and aluminium flew whistling through
the air In the suddenly darkened pit of
the testing room a milky, slimy mixture of
alcohol and oxygen burned spasmodically
with flames of different shapes and sizes,
occasionally crackling and detonating, like
fireworks. Steam hissed. Cables were on
fire in a hundred places. Thick, black, sting-
ing fumes of burning rubber filled the air.
Von Braun and I stared at each other
open-eyed. We were uninjured.
In this happy atmosphere so dear to
scientists and inventors they continued;
in 1937 they persuaded the Air Ministry
to buy them a huge estate at Peene-
munde on the north of the island of
Usedom on the Baltic; and they went on
through even the war with that freedom
((Continued on page 35)


:■ ■
i i
m
I
111
SHE’S GONE OFF HER FOOD
We couldn’t handle a HIPPO
d
A Savings Bank
Just register your signa-
ture here and you can
make deposits or with-
drawals during working
hours. Ground Floor.
A Post Office
On our Ground Floor,
Pitt Street, we have a
branch of the G.P.0.,
where we carry out nor-
mal postal business.
7 Customer
Lounges
These comfortable rest
rooms are located on
most floors and are well-
known to our customers
who relax in them.
Antiques
Pay a visit to our Fine
Art Gallery on the 4th
floor. We have a large
collection of pieces of
distinction.
Beauty Salon
On our Second floor is
the luxurious Beauty
Salon. Make an ap-
pointment now. You
can have your hair
permed, waved or set.
Chiropody, etc.
Optical Service
Mr. J. A. Galloway,
A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., is the
consulting Optometrist
on our 2nd floor.
Dry Cleaning
An efficient 48-hour
service on all Men’s and
Women’s and Chil-
dren’s clothing. Carpets,
rugs, curtains, etc., too!
Our famous Animal Clinic is open for all your domestic pets. Free
veterinary advice is available on Tuesdays and Fridays from 2 to 4 p.m.
Dog medicine and general service are available during normal working
hours. Our Catering Service can handle a large party. Our catering
experts will arrange everything for you . . . food, decorations, cutlery.
The charges are very reasonable. Whatever the occasion or the celebration,
let us make you a beautiful cake! Just telephone 80951, give T.O.P.S.
the details; well do a splendid job. Did you know that Anthony Horderns’
have a Pharmacy just inside the Pitt Street doorway? Prescriptions
dispensed include those on the "Free Medicine” list. Anthony Horderns’
are famous for all classes of repair work, too ! Lawnmowers, watches,
furniture, blinds, umbrellas, everything electrical, stockings, etc., to mention
just a few. We take special orders of English Publications. Any book
printed in England, which you cannot purchase in Australia, we will order
specially for you from England. Apply Book Dept., Ground Floor, Pitt St.
TROTH IN ADVERTISING
Ipiii
IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE TO LIST ALL OUR SERVICES HERE. RING US AT 80951. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 29, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3907
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior p. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney ; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THOUGHTS FOR NEW YEAR
THE year 1954 will go down as one in which
the greatest number of Australians on record were
happy and contented, the year in which there was
least unemployment, fewest industrial disturbances.
In fact, there would have been little disturbance
whatever had it not been for the existence of a
party in the country devoting itself to the interests
of an inimical foreign Power, and a Federal
“Labor” party led by a man who seems always to
see eye-to-eye with the Communist party on
Australian industrial issues.
The prophet who in 1934 had prophesied to
“Labor” leaders that in 1954 they would have
nothing left to fight for but their own self-respect
would have been laughed to scorn; but it is true.
Australia at present presents the spectacle of a
country so superficially affluent that it has all the
money it can spend without a wide expansion in
the range of consumer-goods, a country in which a
single city of under 2,000,000 inhabitants has been
clogged with people clutching pound-notes to
liquidate for Christmas-presents; in which the same
city and its correspondents have dumped nearly
half a million pounds in pound-instalments into
one “monster Christmas lottery” alone, not to
mention the hundreds of thousands that are being
poured into the smaller or chicken-feed lotteries,
in which the prizes represent only a couple of
years’ salary for a comparatively minor Common-
wealth civil servant under the new scales of wages.
Shortages of labor, shortages of key materials,
shortages of fuel, shortages of ships—no man,
vehicle or machine is idle except by deliberate
intention in the Commonwealth today. And this
has been going on so long and the tempo has so
far increased month by month during 1954, with-
out the inflation which marked the previous three
years, that a lot of people have come to the conclu-
sion that it has become automatic. They think
the processes which have been operating can con-
tinue—a slowing-down in the work-rate, a greater
devotion to spending than to earning money, a
continual pressure to milk more out of industry
and to hold up those branches of it where there are
shortages or where the pressure-groups are strong
enough to enforce their will.
The year 1955 promises to see the country
feeling the effect of these policies of the man-in-
the-street and of those who work for his “interests.”
The chickens hatched by the increased margins in
the metal industries will become noticeable. The
Commonwealth civil service is in the field demand-
ing, and getting, increases which in higher grades
amount to as much as 28 per cent., some senior
clerical employees doing what are no more than
routine jobs going into the £3OOO-a-year class. Vic-
torian public servants’ salaries on the basis of recent
awards will all go up to the limit. And in private
industry the pressure is on—it is said that in some
industries where there are acute shortages of labor,
wages can be anything a key-man cares to ask
for a job—say, driving a heavy truck.
The all-over effects threaten to be considerable,
if the trends continue and are combined with
maintenance of the present level of spending in the
kind of unreproductive avenues in which spending
is going on, along with a level of imports which is
kept down only by shrinkage of our export income.
Already great transport and heavy-industiy firms
which a few years ago would have invested their
capital in their own businesses are beginning to
“follow the money,” to the detriment of the future
of their own expansion. They cannot be blamed.
What shipping company faced with regulation.
Communist obstruction, fabulous wage-bills,
shocking delays in dockyard repairs leading to
ruinous expense, could be expected to put its
surpluses earned in a boom time of shortage
back into shipping, for instance? The tempta-
tion to industries, especially those which
have to deal with Communist unions and State
Governments of the type of the Cahill Govern-
ment which encourage loaf and industrial arrogance,
is to invest any spare money they have in hotels
or in some industry which attracts the loose cash
of working families that don’t know what to do
with the shekels which are rolling in.
If it were certain that years of peace and over-
seas markets in which the sky is the limit lay ahead
there might not be so much to be concerned about.
But the overseas prospect is not nearly as glittering
as it was six months ago. The world is slowly
getting back to normal markets, in which the buyer
has as much say as the seller.
The wool-market is on a fairly level keel, but
has sagged below last year’s standard of prices. It has
proved during the absence of the Russians from
part of the market how sensitive it can be in price
to demand. It has been kept up to its present levels
more on the basis of confidence in the future than
on the needs of the present. The wheat-market is
carrying huge surpluses. If the good seasons
continue in wheat-growing the very weight of over-
production must operate whatever Socialistic
manipulators can do to inhibit the law of supply and
demand.
The international competition of Japan and
China with countries which are the principal
buyers of our primary-products tends to become
ever more acute.
And the international situation within the
next few years will reach its crux. Events may
determine within the next year whether Russia and
China are prepared to remain where they are
without further expansion while involving them-
selves in the ballooning costs of military organisa-
tion. The Communist Powers have reached such
a stage of militarisation and have adopted such
a policy of movement in Asia that they must either
abandon everything they have built for aggres-
sion (and throw overboard for the present their
plans for Communist world revolution) or push
matters, within the next two or three years at most,
to the point of world war. And it seems likely that
their hands may be shown in 1955.
The mind recoils from the kind of position
which would be faced in Australia if it were
suddenly called on to gear itself to a war-time
economy. When other wars have come upon us
the conditions have been entirely different. The
first war affected us comparatively little industrially.
The huge export of manpower to the battlefronts
was dealt with quite equably by harder work and
a merely fuller employment and by the intake of
women who had been a comparative rarity in
industry and commerce. The Second War found
us sliding out of a depression, able to cope with
the manpower problem, with a* comparatively
frugal economy and a surplus of labor, male and
female. It was almost welcomed by the bulk of
Australians as a developmental era which led them
through excitement to paper-money plenty.
But what would be the effect on the economy
of a modern war striking at a moment of paper-
money prosperity and of acute shortage of man-
power, of basic raw materials and of the will to
work? The next war—one hopes it may never
come—will be one which will make unimaginable
demands on the economy, since the Americans have
taught us that battles must be fought in luxury
even against poorly armed and victualled Chinese.
And the kind of psychological reaction caused by
the switch from lavish peace-time existence among
the people inured to the kind of standards which
now reign in the Commonwealth will be apt to
produce devastating results, almost as great as can
be anticipated from fear of nuclear bombing.
It seems that New Year’s Day, 1955, might
be a good moment for Australians to take their
eyes off. the rainbow, bring them down to earth and
consider how they would deal with emergency.
An Old Year Looks Back
WHEN, a few days hence, 1954, having joined its
ancestors, is exercising the privilege of all time-
expired years of boring those that preceded it with
a recital of its activities, it will be able to produce
very little to surprise them. The Seato treaty and
the cease-fire in Indo-China will seem very small
beer to an audience that has heard 1945’s “two
unconditional surrenders and an atom-bomb,” not
to mention 1815’s oft-repeated “Napoleon’s escape
from Elba, the Hundred Days— and Waterloo.”
Not that some parts of the story won’t be interest-
ing enough—to receptive ears. For instance, when
old 1788 sidles up to the newcomer and asks “How
are things going with that little colony I planted
on the shores of Port Jackson?” 1954 will be able
to recount more than a few reminiscences; his
difficulty may be to sort them out into some kind
of coherent form.
He will probably recollect that when he came
into the world the Parliaments and Stock
Exchanges of Australia were alike in recess; that
politicians were more-or-less dormant, but that
company-promoters were very wide-awake and
that the air was thick with oil- and uranium-scrip;
that there was a dearth of bottled-beer, and Hoad,
Rosewall, Rose and Hartwig had just defeated
Trabert and Seixas to retain the Davis Cup.
In between pictures of spudding-in reports and
geiger-counter clicks he’ll have a confused memory
of a welter of legislation. Pressed for details, he’ll
probably admit that most of it—or the part that
got the most publicity—had to do with drink,
gambling and obscene literature, mainly in the
direction of increasing the facilities for indulging
a liking for the first two and restricting indulgence
in the third.
New South Wales will be quoted as the State
most prominent, or most verbose, in the matter of
liquor-reform and, in explaining why after the
long-awaited Maxwell Report had been delivered
in February no action was taken for many months,
1954 will recall that the New South Wales Assembly
met on only 11 days in the first 1\ months of his
career. Two of these days concerned the Royal
visit —her Majesty opened Parliament on February
4 —and one the Studley-Ruxton Commission. If
1788 asks for further particulars of that, 1954 will
probably reply “Dear me! For several weeks the
burning question was ‘Who bashed Studley-
Ruxton?’ and now, for the life of me, I can’t
remember who did, or why.”
He’ll remember, though, that when Cahill
finally got his teeth into the liquor question it was
tossed from Cabinet to caucus and from caucus
to Trades Hall and back again, and there was much
backing and filling by all concerned, with Cahill
himself saying “We have no definite views on the
liquor question.” Out of it all came the Liquor
Referendum, with 10-o’clock winning in a photo-
finish. Queensland and South Australia also made
slight amendments to their liquor-laws, mainly
in respect to clubs.
In the gambling line Westralia, undeterred by
South Australia’s sorry experience in the same
field, introduced licensed betting-shops, and
Queensland took the first step towards them by
legislating for hopscotch referendums on the sub-
ject. The lottery-war affected all States except
South Australia, but mainly Victoria and Tasmania.
Old 1788 might conceivably be interested in it, as
there was a State lottery in England in his day. To
put it bluntly, Cain, as Premier of a no-lottery
State, stole Tatt.’s from Cosgrove—a neat move
which gave him, a Socialist Premier, all the
financial benefits of a State lottery while leaving a
private enterprise the stigma of running it. Cos-
grove’s response was to grant a Hobart business-
man a licence to step into George Adams’s empty
shoes, with a super-colossal lottery with prizes
which made the Cahill, Gair and Hawke outfits,
and even its transplanted predecessor look like
chicken-feed. Panic and talk of reprisals ensued
in State-lottery circles, and as 1954 shuffled off
the stage the Hobart man was threatening to invoke
Section 92.
In the middle of the lottery-war Cahill’s
lottery got itself a new director—presumably the
best man for the job; by a strange coincidence he
happened to be Cahill’s private secretary. A little
earlier the name of Evatt, minor, whose resignation
from Cahill’s Cabinet, oft-predicted, had
materialised at last, was canvassed for the N. S.
Wales Agent-Generalship. However, it turned out
to be Buckley’s chance, so Cahill had to get a new
Minister for Mines. As the year ended Cahill him-
self was being tipped as the man most likely to
become chairman of the Sydney Water Board.
All these things, 1954 will probably admit, have
tended to cloud his recollection of other happenings
possibly more important though less publicised. The
visit of Clement Attlee, en route home from Peking,
caused a little embarrassment among contending
“Labor” factions, but in general less excitement
than the American invasion led by Gipsy Rose Lee,
Louis Armstrong, Artie Shaw, Johnny Ray, Billy
Daniels and two-thirds of the Andrews sisters. Prob-
ably as a sort of reverse lend-lease, there was the
tour of America by a party of Sydney aldermen for
the avowed purpose of studying traffic problems.
Flying-saucers were reported at intervals
throughout the year, without getting any closer to
detection—one even flashed its blinding light into
the secret safe of a security-man in the dead of
night; and he hadn’t been to the Petrov Commis-
sion party, either. Electronic brains, on the other
hand, seemed definitely closer, as did nuclear-
reactors, despite the reaction to each other of rival
groups of nuclear scientists. No one can say
whether TV got closer or further away. Atom-
fission spilt-over into politics, and some of the
electrons revolving round the “Labor” nucleus
found each other mutually repulsive. Concurrently
with this process. Dr. Evatt’s web of conspiracy
grew wider and wider until it threatened to involve
even himself.
As 1954 prepared to depart the close season for
M.P.s and stockbrokers had again arrived. Share-
certificates had come down from the stratosphere
to somewhere nearer ground-level; the oil and*
uranium their holders hoped they represented was
still below the surface. There was again a dearth
of bottled-beer, and Hoad, Rosewall, Rose and
Hartwig were again pitted against Seixas and
Trabert in the Davis Cup challenge round—a most
appropriate moment for an Old Year to murmur
“This is where I came in,” and to grope under the
seat for his hat.


ORIENTAL IN APPEARANCE


PLAIN ENGLISH
Education and Banning
No less than £34 million will be spent
by N.S.W. on education in this financial
year, according to that State’s Minister
for Education. The sum is a record.
Meantime N.S.W., like all the other
States, has set out to censor and ban
what sundry officials appointed for the
purpose may decide is unfit for the popu-
lation to read.
In Queensland a “Literature Board
has got off to a flying start with no fewer
than 44 publications of one kind and
another banned in its first six months of
office. Thus we are shortly to have new
sets of figures in State Year-Books, as
State “Literature Boards” supply statis-
ticians with the sum of their banning
achievements each year.
All of which makes the thoughtful
wonder. For we have had free and com-
pulsory education for more than half
a century. Assuming that a child gets
the —er —benefit of this for ten years,
nearly six generations have thus been —
er—educated. In addition to that, we
are regarded as one of the most literate
people on earth (we certainly buy more
books per head of population than anyone
else) and for a people small in numbers
have contributed well to world art and
literature.
Yet if the attitude of these State Gov-
ernments is to be accepted their free and
compulsory education has made us such
hogs for salacious, crime-inspiring and
debauching literature that they find it
necessary to set up boards to protect us.
However noble the impulse behind this
Government censorship it is a bad thing.
Firstly because it assumes that only Gov-
ernment officials are capable of Judging
what is fit to read, secondly because cen-
sorship of this kind seldom knows where
to stop, and thirdly because it is wide
open to abuse by political parties and
sectional minorities.
Threats from Moscow
Overseas developments advertise a
swing in Soviet policy from the suavity
of the past year back to the old policy of
toughness which used to rule in Stalin’s
day.
Signs that it was coming have been
evident in the overseas Communist press
for some time. The concrete evidence
has been provided by the threats made
during the past few days to cancel the
Franco-Soviet and Franco-British treaties
of friendship if the Paris agreement to
rearm Western Germany is carried
out. The threat is formal and official.
It was made to the British in a Note
handed by Gromyko in person to the
British Ambassador in Moscow. The
British Parliament had, of course, already
ratified the Paris treaty, and if Moscow
felt that it had any chance of achieving
a repeal it does not know its British.
Its real target, however, was the French
with their semi-Socialist Government and
its polyglot National Assembly, which
was about to begin the debate on the
Paris Conference agreement when the
Russian Note was delivered.
The French Assembly debate has justi-
fied Moscow’s optimism. It showed a
divided Socialist party with M. Moch, a
Socialist who is usually a fellow-traveller
with the Communists on defence matters,
advocating the banning of the manufac-
ture or use of atomic weapons by France,
or within France, and arguing that since
a dozen hydrogen-bombs could destroy
the country there was no point in rearm-
ing Germany,
The most important point that emerged
from the debate was the admission of
the Premier, Mendes-France, that the
Government leans to the idea of holding
the four-Power talks with the Soviet
Union in May on the basis of a united
but neutralised Germany, an arrange-
ment which might be tantamount to
French suicide.
The Anglo-Saxon countries are unlikely
to have anything to do with such a plan,
largely because they know it to be im-
possible. The idea that any countries
can agree that Germany, united and with
the largest and most virile population in
western Europe—going on for twice that
of France—-can be deprived of the power
to defend itself and would allow itself
to be permanently policed by Russia and
France and other nations outside the
Continent, is too absurd for consideration.
Even if all supported such a suggestion
it would soon produce another Hitler.
The British-American approach is far
more realistic. Mr. Dulles announced
within a few hours of the delivery of the
Note to Britain that last week Nato had
adopted a military report which embodied
a plan to use atomic weapons to make the
invasion of Western Europe impossible.
He openly foreshadowed the replacement
of the Soviet Union’s policy of “cooing-
dove” approaches by one of outright
threats, and made it clear that the change
would not influence the United States
in its world defence policy.
Mr. Eden hastened to give him sup-
port in the Commons, remarking that
the effect of the new weapons with which
Nato was being equipped would have
more signficance to defence than Western
Germany’s contribution of manpower to
the Western European Army.
The Russian viewpoint appears to be
that no nation with which it has alliances
must develop the means of defending
itself. On that basis it is very much
better that there should be no agree-
ments with the U.S.S.R., except a plain
one that the Kremlin can have peace if
it wants it and is prepared to join in a
universal plan of disarmament under
international inspection, or all the fight
its sullen leaders want, and more, if they
attempt to expand their present imperial-
ist conquests.
More "Margins"
The significance of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court’s decisions on margins
in the metal trades is beginning to grow
clearer, and already it has been shown
that the actual cost of the metal-workers’
increase will be only a tithe of the total
expense to Australian industry and the
taxpayers.
In N.S.W., 36,000 public servants
secured increases on a substantial scale
two months ago, and the Victorians have
followed suit with increases this week.
It is better to be a head-clerk of some
sort doing routine work in one of the
State civil services today than general-
manager of a substantial industrial enter-
prise carrying on productive work ; and
some people at the heads of professional
departments go up by as much as £4OO-
- a year in Victoria.
Of course, the Commonwealth service,
which could be run with much less than
its present staffs, had to have its turn.
It will cost the taxpayers about £9 million
more for no return. Clerical staff on a
nominal range of £Bl2-908 will receive
about £2OO additional, and those on the
£llOO-£l2OO-mark will have another £4OO,
and so on, until the real gentry of the
service in the £3OOO-£3300 grades collect
an additional £9OO a year. The Public
Service Arbitrator has given an assurance
that the offer which the Public Service
Board has made —and which will be con-
sidered on January 6 —will not pre-
judice the right of service unions
to apply for the “full metal-trades increase
formula,”
The defence services are next on the
list —about 45,000 servicemen will receive
rises. A senior warrant-officer in the
forces who is married will get £3 12s. 9d.
a day, including his marriage-allowance,
provision and clothing allowances, and
a three-star private about £2 10s. a day.
Increased margins for skilled workers
have been long overdue. The question
now to be considered is whether the skill
is there and the work is being done.
Dutch Colonies and
Self-government
Indonesia, having failed in its efforts to
get the United Nations General Assembly
to order the Netherlands to resume nego-
tiaions over West New Guinea, now talks
of having to resort to force. President
Soekarao says his country “must rely on
herself and not the United Nations to
gain West New Guinea,” and the political
leader of the ruling party says that, “if
necessary', force will be used.”
The truth is that, although Indonesian
leaders talk of negotiations and settle-
ment, they have made it quite clear all
along that the only settlement they
have any intention of accepting is
the complete surrender of the territory.
Most of the Asian nations which sup-
ported the Indonesian claim at U.N.
accepted Soekarno’s catchcry of “colon-
ialism,” but failed to see that at their
present stage of development the choice
for the inhabitants of the disputed terri-
tory is not between colonialism and free-
dom, but between continuing as a Dutch
colony or becoming an Indonesian
colony. In reality true freedom could
come more readily by the first road than
by the second.
Holland has stated that its ultimate
object is to grant self-government. No
such privilege is granted to any of the
various islands and races under the Indo-
nesian flag; on the contrary, local auto-
nomy has been withdrawn in several
instances against the will of the people
concerned. If Indonesia gains control
of West New Guinea the chances of the
inhabitants ever obtaining self-govern-
ment will be negligible.
The cynical may say that the chances
are not much better under the Dutch.
That can only be judged by the attitude
of the Hollanders to the demands of
people in other remnants of the once-
great Dutch Empire. There are really
only two of any importance —Dutch
Guiana (Surinam) and the Dutch Islands
in the Caribbean Sea, of which Curasao
is the most important. Both these colonies
were promised self-government in 1949,
and a certain amount of internal auto-
nomy was granted to Surinam in Janu-
ary, 1950, and to the Netherlands Antilles
in February, 1951.
On December 15 of this year a new
statute proclaimed complete internal
autonomy for both colonies, defence and
foreign relations to be the joint concern of
the Netherlands Government and the
Governments of the two other “partners
in the realm.” Elections in the two terri-
tories are free and secret, and there is
universal suffrage for all citizens at the
age of 23.
Presumably this is the sort of regime
the people of West New Guinea can aspire
to if they remain under the wing of
Holland. So far, Indonesia has offered
them nothing to approach it. In fact, it
has offered them nothing at all; it has
merely claimed them.
Off fo South Africa
What on earth is the use of Mr. R. G.
Howarth’s exporting himself to South
Africa?
Everybody in the Australian literary
world knows who he is ; but, for general
information, here is his Who’s Who. He
is a Reader in English Literature at
Sydney University who has accepted an
appointment to the Ardeme Chair of
English Literature at the University of
Cape Town.
For many years he has been making a
fine job of editing “Southerly,” following,
like The Bulletin, a steady policy of
encouraging Australian literature, bring-
ing forward such Old Masters as Tom
Collins and William Gosse Hay and
reviewing (if not with “unseemly journa-
listic haste”) the new books only three or
four years too late. He kept the maga-
zine free of Leftist politics and tolerably
free of the malice of amateur reviewers;
and, with the English Association behind
it, always kept his Australian partisan-
ship in due relation to the general body
of English and European culture.
As president of the Sydney branch of
the English Association, besides helping
to organise the monthly meetings at
which experts lectured on Australian
literature and history and poets read their
verses, he was the moving spirit of the
annual dinners where, on one memorable
occasion, A. P. Herbert and N. S. Wales
Chief Justice Street shot rockets of wit
at each other across the frightful remains
of the fruit-salad, while Miles Franklin
and a score of other writers sat in the
audience.
In his private life Mr. Howarth estab-
lished what must have been the only
literary salon the self-centred and rackety
city of Sydney has seen since the days of
Brennan, Lionel Lindsay, A. G. Stephens
and the Ishmael Club ; and there Sydney
writers met not only their own perhaps
too-familiar faces but Vance and Nettie
Palmer over from Melbourne, James
Devaney down from Brisbane, David
Campbell from Canberra and such over-
seas scholars, bewildered and often
neglected in our foreign country, as Pro-
fessor Mentor Williams and his charming
wife from the U.S. Once he had as
visitors Nettie Palmer and Miles Franklin
simultaneously—a historic spectacle of
two reigning queens of literature, both
looking a little alarmed at each other,
as if they were Mary Queen of Scots and
Queen Elizabeth.
In short, as a lecturer on Australian
topics in Commonwealth Fund lectures,
as a member of the fund’s advisory
board, as editor and as host, Mr. Howarth
has been the most invaluable liaison-
officer between the remote sandstone
caverns of the University and the living
world of literature; and it is a thousand
pities that some appointment could not
have been found to hold him in this
country: if not at Sydney, then elsewhere.
Everyone in the literary world will wish
him good-luck —and' a speedy return to
this country; where, amongst other
things, it was generally hoped he would
do for McCrae and Brennan what he
has done for Pepys and Byron in Every-
man’s Library.
No Bodyguard
“In the ACT”: There was more than
Security significance in the announcement
in Canberra that the Prime Minister had
dispensed with his bodyguard, the tall
gentleman who has accompanied him on
most occasions in recent months. Menzies
never felt comfortable about this escort
—although he has had experience in the
U.S. and elsewhere of having guards
deputed to guard him for the duration of
his visits—but he accepted the word of
the Security organisation that some-
thing of the sort was required when
feeble-minded threats of assassination
were reported. He made some good-
humored quips in the House when Ward
and his kind tried to suggest that he was
making a cowardly run for cover from a
non-existent danger, his best being the
statement that as the guard was a perman-
ent Security employee he would be
engaged, if not watching the Prime Minis-
ter, in keeping an eye on “Eddie’s”
friends.
Dispensing with the guard almost coin-
cided with the tenth anniversary of the
Liberal party, the fifth anniversary of
Menzies’s own re-election to office, the
announcement of the record term of
office, and Menzies’s 60th birthday. These
occasions, with their floods of congratu-
lations from the obscure and the famous,
and the editorials in newspapers that a
decade ago were venomous in their attack
on the same man, have marked the
gradual but extraordinary change which
has been developing in public opinion
over the last few years concerning him.
He is taking his place in public esteem
almost as much for his interest in sport
and the benevolence of his wit on public
occasions as for the brilliance of his
Parliamentary speeches and the vigor of
his attack on the disintegrating ranks
which face him, across the Chamber. Not
to mention his ability to do the right
thing at a difficult time.
There is no doubt about his world
stature. He will shortly leave for a trip
of some significance, with visits to several
countries, and he will be going at a time
when Churchill appears likely to be really
contemplating retirement. It could well
be that in a year or two Menzies will
become the interpreter to the world of
policies and projects of the British Com-
monwealth. Eden could never rival him,
nor could the limelight-seeking and
woolly-minded Prime Minister of the
Republic of India. On the Australian scene
the Liberal party and its policy appear
firmly established for several years.
There seems no reason why Menzies
should not devote his talents to the wider
field, with the benefit of a world-wide
experience greater than that of Sir Win-
ston, and the knowledge which Churchill
lacks of the rise and significance of the
new powers in Asia.
Atoms for Peace
One of the most remarkable advances of
the year was the United Nations General
Assembly’s acceptance of the “atoms for
peace” programme put forward on
December 4 by the United States at the
original instance of General Eisenhower.
It is the more notable since the matter
has been steered through in a single
year.
It was only on December 8, 1953, that
the President at the Bermuda Conference
proposed a plan under which producing-
countries would contribute to the common
stockpile of atomic materials and know-
ledge to the limit permissible by prudence,
in order to harness the atom to peaceful
industrial expansion.
Two months later he recommended to
Congress that the Atomic Energy Act
should be amended to enable the United
States to co-operate in the matter with
friendly nations, in releasing fissionable
materials for research and industrial use.
The State Department at first seemed
cautious, as was Congress itself, but after
Mr. Dulles had given the measure his
blessing the bill was passed at the end
of August. It had been delayed while
attempts were made to bring Russia into
co-operation, a matter in which the
United States authorities were all too
optimistic, or gave the semblance of
being.
The Russians, as usual, were tortuous
in their approach. Their expressed view-
point, while not actually hostile to the
theories postulated, was that a prelimin-
ary must be the complete outlawry of
nuclear weapons. This at first glimpse
seemed to be a straightforward and whole-
hearted gesture towards peace. But on
closer examination its effect seemed to be
that Russia would be left with a military
organisation capable of overrunning
Europe, Moscow’s military forces under
((Continued on next page)


arms being about eight times those of
the combined nations of the West in
Europe which would be deprived of their
only method of countering aggressive
attack from the Soviet Union. Thus, any
agreement on disarmament must go very
much farther than the banning of atomic
weapons. And it must be covered with
a tight agreement as to inspection of
military resources. So far the U.S.S.R.
has never made any agreement with its
World War II allies which it has even
attempted to keep, if a breach of it would
further the campaign for Communist
World Revolution.
The matter reached the point in March
at which Washington submitted to Mos-
cow a concrete plan for the pooling of
atomic energy and knowledge, based on
the results of the Berlin and Washington
meetings, but the Russian response was
scarcely a response at all.
In September President Eisenhower
had talks with six nations—U.K., Aus-
tralia, Canada, Belgium, France, South
Africa —and it was agreed to constitute an
international agency to promote the
development of atomic energy for peace-
ful purposes. Promptly, in the same
month, Mr. Dulles offered again the
creation of an international agency under
the control of the United Nations. A
conference was proposed for 1955, and it
was announced that a training-school
would open in 1956 in the United States
for scientists from abroad.
The seven Powers now concerned
sponsored a resolution on November 7
last —the day Russia celebrates as the
anniversary of the October Revolution—
that the agency which they had created
should negotiate an appropriate form of
agreement with the United Nations. Mr.
Lodge, the U.S. delegate to the General
Assembly of U.N.0., announced that the
United States had made available 100
kilograms of fissionable material —a
considerable amount in nuclear terms
to serve as fuel for experimental reactors
in other countries. To this Britain at
once added 20 kilograms.
On November 23 the political commit-
tee of U.N.O. unanimously recommended
the adoption of the resolution, the
Russian representative voting in support
despite the fact that he averred that the
resolution “did not go far enough.”
On December 4 the General Assembly
adopted the scheme without dissent and
appointed Brazil, Canada, France, India,
the Soviet Union and the United King-
dom to prepare an agenda for the pro-
posed conference next May.
Exactly how the project can be dealt
with remains to be seen. It is highly
complicated. But at least a great step
forward, and one of particular interest
to Australia, has been made.
If there is one thing the peoples of the
world would vote unanimously for it is
the abolition of the threat of nuclear
warfare \ but whether it is abolished now
seems to depend entirely on one set of
nations —the Communist bloc.
POLITICAL POINTS
For the reassurance of those who, after
an over-indulgence in turkey and Christ-
mas pudding, may have doubted their
own faculties, that was an eclipse of the
sun they saw late on Christmas Day.
• •
“Labor’s” Federal conference, which
was to have been held in Hobart on
January 17, has been postponed until
March 14. The State branch most
affected by this move is probably the
Tasmanian, the one least involved in
the current party-squabble. Election-
time is drawing very close in lassie, and
the most-favored date for polling-day
was the middle of March. Premier
Cosgrove now has to decide whether to
bring it forward and beat the boilover,
postpone it and hope for a brotherly-
love conclusion to the conference or stick
to the original plan and go to the polls
while the two factions are tearing each
other to pieces in his State capital.
• •
This year ends with work so plentiful
that there aren’t enough hands to do it.
So all those who took the advice m
election-slogans earlier in the year—
“ Vote for Menzies and Unemployment
—have thrown their votes away.
• • ✓
On December 4 the number of persons
on unemployment-benefit was 2702, com-
pared with 12,914 at the beginning of the
year. In the same period the number of
vacant jobs registered with the Common-
wealth Employment Service rose from
37,453 to 65,732.
• •
Recently Cahill has given his approval
to the demolition and replacement of
Parliament House and the building of
an Opera House. Why not combine the
two? The talking-shop is closed for
more than half the year, so the orators
and singers should be able to come to a
working arrangement whereby both could
have the use of the new edifice. There d
be complications, of course. Imagine
the annoyance of an audience which
came along to enjoy “Rigoletto” and had
instead to listen to Cahill’s Budget-speech.
• •
Among political recollections of the
year the prize still goes to the Sydney
“Sun” photographer who caught Dr.
Evatt spouting election-fare outside a
butcher’s shop at Ramsgate (N.S.W.) with
a sign behind him proclaiming “Fresh
Tripe.”
• •
Police walked in on a four-bob-for-
cards poker-school at Alice Springs and
the upshot was a day-long debate in the
local court as to whether poker was a
game of skill or of chance. In the end
the magistrate held there was more chance
than skill about it and fined the hostess
a fiver for keeping a common gaming-
house. In all States except South Aus-
tralia the law is that you can’t play games
of chance for money privately but you
can go for your life in public lotteries.
• •
Australian wheat-yield this season
estimated at a little more than 155 million
bushels, just under 15 bushels an acre
from 101 million acres. Bad sowing and
growing weather in N.S.W. caused the
drop in average (usually about 161
bushels). Still, there should be a saving
in that State ; the bakers didn’t use any
flour for five days last week.
• •
Announced in Melbourne that laundry
charges will rise in the New This
will make the washing of “Labor’s” dirty
linen more costly than ever.
• • *
Dr. Laughead, the Michigan physician
who predicted a sticky finish for Chicago
on December 21 and, when the day
arrived without the promised tidal waves
and earthquakes, announced that forces
in outer space had granted a reprieve, has
been complaining about phone-calls from
“crackpots.” Seems to be a case of the
kettle calling the pot cracked.
Home from representing Australia at
the U.N. Assembly, P. J. Clarey, “Labor”
M.H.R. for Bendigo, said that “Austra-
lian political parties should form a united
front on international affairs.” So they
should, but Clarey’s first job is to per-
suade his colleagues to join the Foreign
Affairs Committee, which they have so far
blackballed.
• •
This being the time of the year for
prophecies, here’s one issued by an
American industry-consultant for the
information of investors:
Within 20 years twice as much electric
power will be produced by atomic means
in U.S.A. as is now produced by hydro-
electric methods. From 1975 to the end
of the century 80 pes cent, of all new
power-plants installed in America will be
atom-powered. Although other forms of
generating will also expand, by 2000 about
45 per cent, of all power used will come
from the atom.
H. D. Kreager, who prepared the survey,
claims that, if anything, it errs on the side
of understatement.
• •
It’s to be hoped the Federal A.L.P.
doesn’t advocate hitting people like
Evatt, Ward and Calwell over the head
"SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE BE FORGOT?"
before they go in to bowl against Menzies
in the next Federal session.
• •
Moscow followed up its threat to annul
the Franco-Soviet pact if France ratified
the Paris Agreements with a similar warn-
ing to Britain in respect of the 1942
Anglo-Soviet treaty, Britain’s reply
expresses regrets, but says
there is no justification for the Soviet con-
tention that the Paris agreements are incom-
patible with the treaty,
Russia’s threat seems rather an empty
one. What’s the point in annulling friend-
ship treaties you’ve never observed?
• •
N. S. Wales Constitutional Associa-
tion, following Sir John Latham’s
address to its members wherein he
touched on the question of repealing or
remodelling Section 92, has issued a
statement affirming its belief in the
section as “one of the structural pillars
of the Australian way of life,” which the
association “would not without a struggle
see changed by even a syllable.” It is
doubtful whether the architects of the
Constitution saw the section in quite
that light, but it has certainly proved a
defence against bureaucrats and would-be
nationalises.
A peculiarly worded statement from
the N.S.W. Department of Railways
claims a saving of £650,000 “by cancel-
lation of part of a contract
Garratt locomotives,” The Minister
explains that the reason is “that we have
enough engines.” It seems a strange
way of saving—you overorder, then
cancel part of the order and claim to
have saved the part cancelled. On that
basis it is only necessary to make your
orders large enough and your cancella-
tions large enough and the “savings”
would wipe out the railway-deficits,
• •
Queensland’s Literature Board has
banned 11 “romance-type” comics, bring-
ing its total bannings to 44. The board
was set up last May. It is scoring nearly
as rapidly as a Test cricketer,
• •
Sydney City Council decided that Lord
Mayor Hills’s allowance should be
increased from £5OOO to £6500 for the
coming year, but when the recommen-
dation was referred to Minister for
Local Government Renshaw he refused
to authorise it on the grounds that he
was “not convinced that the City Coiyi-
cil had demonstrated that special
circumstances had arisen to justify the
increase.” Hills’s comment was that
severe economies would be necessary
and that Lord Mayoral receptions would
have to be restricted. It looks as if
there’ll be no Christmas beano for the
boys next year.
• •
If the governing principle in wage- and
salary-fixation is the capacity of industry
to pay, the State and Federal Public
Service Boards must be highly impressed
with the present condition of industry.
The trouble is that Australian industry
has to pay not only the wages of its own
employees, but those of the 580,000 people
on the Government-payroll as well.
At one time public servants could claim
to be underpaid in comparison with
those doing similar grades of work in
private industry. They could, however,
console themselves with the reflection that
they had a job for life, with certain
benefits and privileges and a State-
guaranteed superannuation fund. They’ve
still got all that, plus a very liberal salary-
scale, and on top of it a system that
pushes through their claims for whacking
increases while those outside the charmed
circle have to take their turn in the mile-
long queues outside the Arbitration Court.
• •
Labor leaders object less to Commun-
ist parties than to Christmas parties.
The Victorian Government is finding
difficulty in putting into force its new
speed-regulations. It lifted the 30-m.p.h.
limit on the Nepean and Maroondah
Highways—two major roads through con-
gested suburbs leading to the country.
The “de-restriction” signposts giving the
word “go” to 50 m.p.h. were promptly
chopped down by indignant parents.
Chief Secretary Galvin made the best
of a bad job by letting them stay down.
• •
The Prime Minister of Sudan
announced that his Cabinet was faced
with a serious split. Let’s hope it turned
out to be nothing more than a wide grin
on the face of a colleague across the
table.
• •
Kim Beazley, “Labor” member for
Fremantle, has received a vote of con-
fidence from his A.L.P. district council,
which should be gratifying to one whose
long absence was attributed by some of
the uncharitable less to Moral Rearma-
ment than to Evatt’s efforts to persuade
him to stay out of the way “until the row
died down.” He got back just in time to
find himself quoted by W. M. Bourke,
and a bit too late to preach his M.R.A.
gospel to those members of his party
who show little sign of loving their
enemies.
• •
Father of the House Earle Page,
M.H.R. for Cowper (N.S.W.) since 1919,
describes stories of his impending retire-
ment as “a lot of baloney.”


Society
'[ME WEST flying-saucer, reported in
Melbourne, is said to be blue. Can
the venerable firm of Wedgwood at
last have entered the field?—“Metralia.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: In the barber’s shop an eight-
year-old lad with a head of luxuriant
wavy hair climbed into the chair next
to me and demanded a crew-cut. Scissors
looked at him dubiously and asked: “Are
you sure your father’ll let you have it
that way?” “Yair,” said the kid. Reluct-
antly the barber got to work. The
customer beamed with pride as he
surveyed his round skull in the mirror.
The man responsible again had qualms
of doubt. “Are you sure your father
won’t mind?” he asked. “Yair,” said the
kid. “But Mum said she’ll murder the
one that does it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roirp”; When The Bulletin van
came to a thirsty stop in Tumbarumba
(N.S.W.) its occupant was marched off
to the general-store, where he was
surrounded by a group of men headed by
the town’s stock-and-station agent, who,
supported by posse, told an almost
unbelievable story. Four years ago the
last of twin brothers, Tom and Bill
Lauder, died in Tumbarumba, aged well
over 80. Most of those years were spent
by the twins driving bullocks through
"Hayman Island looks a nice place."
the hot Australian bush and laughing at
tall yarns in The Bulletin. At the end
of the trail The Bulletins were filed
away in their Tumbarumba home. And
so now the Tumbarumba Shire Library
can show every Bulletin dating from
the first issue in 1880 till the death of
the remaining twin. By way of circum-
stantial evidence, the posse produced the
twins’ younger brother, a nephew who
runs the general-store and a man who,
"Don't you think We should have that tree pruned. Dad?"
four years ago, carried the several truck-
loads of Bulletins from the teamsters’
home to the library.
❖ * ❖
“8.A.K.”: I’ve always been a bit
sceptical about the authenticity of school-
boy-howlers—that is, the really good-
’uns—but a schoolie acquaintance vows
that this one is an undecorated product of
the recent exams: “Bach was a great
composer. He had a wife and 11 children,
but he kept a spinster in the attic to
practise on.”
“Medina”: We’d all just moved into
the new war-service area and the roads
were still bush-tracks; however, the
council was on the job. When my next-
door neighbor set off for work a huge
stump still stood plump in the middle
of his driveway. During the day the
road-makers excelled themselves; they
removed the stump, but not the hole.
Neighbor arrived home at midnight, high
and happy. Clutched in one hand was
the pie he’d promised he’d bring home,
in the other a quart or so of the cup that
cheers. Guided by the headlights of his
cobbers’ car he headed up the drive,
disappeared suddenly, reappeared after a
few moments still with his parcels,
staggered back to the car and spluttered:
“You should see what those damn’ kids
have done now I’*
❖ ❖ ❖
“T. McN.”: I’m against this hanging of
diidols on the windscreens and rear
windows of cars, especially the kind of
dildols that bob about. The daddy of
’em all appeared dead-centre in a rear
window of a car in Sydney’s New South
Head Road the other morning—a model
of a traffic-light standard, about Sin.
high, with red, amber and green lights,
each the size of a shilling, fixed to the
glass. What’s more, it was connected
to the car’s battery, so that red showed
when the brakes went on, amber when
the car slowed and green when it ran
steadily. Yes, it was a lady-driver, and
yes, somebody had buckled her rear-
bumper fair in the middle.
*x* ♦>
“C.S.”: Just what is meant when one
undertaker wishes another undertaker
“A prosperous New Year”?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Hugh Galleon”; Among the small
crowd which gathered at the scene of
a minor motor-accident in our township
just before nine-o’clock were a brace of
female visitors from a near-by guest-
house. As the accident victim, a leading
citizen of unblemished respectability, was
being assisted, dazed and shaken, from
his damaged car the concerned and sym-
pathetic silence was completely devas-
tated by the taller and more vinegary-
looking of the two visiting onlookers.
“Fancy,” she remarked, acidly, to her
companion, “anyone being drunk at this
time of the day!”
♦♦♦ ♦J*
“Pip Tok”: It is not only in regard to
eating and drinking that writers of
thrillers (B. 8/12/’54) invite the charge of*
snobbishness. As a music-lover, I have
often been amazed by the ease with which
the gifted heroines of such fiction-writers
sit down to the piano and play technically
difficult items by Cesar Franck, Debussy
and others who seem to have superseded
Mozart and Beethoven in the curriculum
for teenage pianists. Equally amazing
is the ability of their ordinary audiences
to appreciate such works. As most of
the latter are by no means highbrow in
other respects, it beats me why writers
do not make some of them rear up and
demand a slice of pops or boogie.
❖ ❖ ❖
“L’Allegro”: On my second reading of
Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s fine book on some
of the best-known Australian schools,
Here, My Son, I noted a quotation from
James Hassall on the term “tuck in.” I
had thought it had some reference to the
destination of the good things disposed
of during the “tuck in”; they—the good
things—undoubtedly go inside. But
according to Dr. Bean s quotation from
Hassall schoolboys did not always have
a “tuck in ; something like a hundred
years ago they had, instead, a tuck out.
What is the meaning of out ? Is the
whole phrase a good tuck out
somehow connected with the idea that
proper justice done to a feast must result
in the letting-out of tucks? Or does it
hint that in tucking in the eats a boy
inevitably fills out the figure?
“Lao-dah : So Australia is to have its
Monte Carlo! Every country seems to
have one, always outside its borders,
Singapore had Johore, Hong Kong had,
and probably still has, Portuguese Macao,
and International
Shanghai had the
Chinese city; all nice
and near —in the case
of Shanghai, a short
trip in a rickshaw.
Noumea is rather far
—BOO miles —but I
don’t suppose that will
matter as long as the
hopeful gambler has
the passage-money in
his wallet, though the
return-trip may present
problems. In the sul-
tanate of Johore the
gambling - farms were
run by Chinese. There
was always free whisky
to maintain the optim-
ism of patrons ; if you
ran out of cash an
1.0. U. to almost any
amount was sufficient;
and if you went com-
pletely broke you could
go out and pawn your
silver tikul-buttons at
a near-by pawnshop. If
you lost those you got
a meal-ticket to the
best hotel in the sul-
tan’s metropolis, a
first-class ticket for the
ferry home and an
affectionate farewell at
the front-door. It
seems that these extra-
national casinos are a
necessary sop to a community’s ill-
conscience—what is a sin in Sydney is a
virtue in New Caledonia, where there is
no control over drinking, either.
❖ * ❖
“Quo Vadis”; They call it “Kelly’s
Pool,” and it’s played all over Australia.
Fifteen numbered colored balls and a
white cue-ball are used, with an agreed
stake per head per game. Pot the ball
with your alley-number and you win the
pool, less the marker’s chop, so much
per stick. The break-up often ends a
pool, and the Goddess of Chance reigns
supreme. It’s a bushranger’s set-up, all
right. And what about this other beauty,
“Mug’s Pool”? Played with cue and
object-ball and numbered pins. If the
value of your alley and toppled pins
tallies you win the pool. Actually you
never win! Play long enough and the
marker scoops the pool— and you know
it! Bushrangers and mugs! The titles
warn us, but still we saddle-up. What is
the explanation? There must be one.
❖ *X* ❖
“Sem”: When one of our locals was
ordained a priest we decided to welcome
him home with the inevitable concert.
Star-item was a finalist in an aria con-
test. When time came for her number
she advanced to the edge of the stage
and beamed “I should like to dedicate
this song to Father Duggan.” We settled
back for the ordeal—but not for long
when she continued “I shall sing ‘O My
Beloved Daddy.’ ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”; My garbage-man—eternal
optimist—has once again made his annual
poetic appeal to my seasonal philanthropy.
This year he signed his effusion “Your
good old garbo.” In my lid-tied reply I
was impelled to point out to him that,
whilst the first adjective in his signature
may well have reflected the skill with
which he was able to scatter so much
of my refuse around so wide an area
of the footpath, the “old” was scarcely
in keeping with the strength he brings
to bear on reducing my garbage-tin to
greater garbage. These, I stressed, I could
have overlooked. But what finally decided
me to withhold the fiver I had intended
giving him was his outrageous abbreviat-
ing of his title to counterfeit that of a
lady whose histrionic art I still revered. I
expect an extra-big dent next Wednesday
morning.
ANOTHER THRESHOLD
Leaving 1954
To enter 1955,
I pause a moment at the door,
Considering: Here, I’m still alive.
Indeed, the present year may seem
When it has long become the past
A fabulous historian's dream
Or, anyway, too good to last:
Another year of public peace.
But sauced with individual murders.
Another year of golden fleece
Both for the sheep and for the
herders :
A year of jobs for all and each.
Whose art becomes a song of praise;
And freedom of the press and speech
Seldom known to former days :
Is it because I’m growing old
And lingering with a dying year
That war and want with it are tolled
And “mind-forged manacles I hear”?
“Well, join the dead year in the tomb,”
Says Fate’s inexorable voice,
“Or hurry on to meet the Bomb.”
I wish I had another choice.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Yachtsman’s Dilemma
THE tree-shadows were lengthening
and the early evening was perpetrat-
ing the rest of its immemorial cliches
in Centennial Park when my little boat,
which had been sailing from side to side
of the pond all the afternoon, struck a
rock or ran into mud about 30ft. from
the bank.
On the steep bank, my shoes filled with
its grey sand, I watched as the wind
smashed the mainsail at the water, and
wondered how many times the hull could
tilt before enough water got in to sink
her. Sink or swim, I had only half an
hour to get her clear; the night-shift
bundy would not hold its hands for a
shipwrecked mariner.
I had felt so sure of the big pond; it
had only recently been drained and
dredged ; I had seen the dredging-bucket
at work ; and instead of the long line and
lead weight prescribed for accidents in
the small-boat-builders’ bible, I had
brought only a few yards of fishing-line.
I tried it once more. It fell about 10ft.
short. I searched about for a large flat
stone. The only thing to do was drop
stones near her in the hope of setting up
a wash big enough to float her off.
“She run aground, mister?”
A suburban Discobolus, I turned on
the voice; it was a little freckled bare-
footed boy.
“Yes,” I said, turning back and
throwing my stone. It fell some feet
short, and splashed the sails with muddy
water. The boat rocked and settled a
bit more firmly into whatever was holding
it. The sails flapped fiercely in a sudden
gust of wind.
“She’s on the bricks,” the boy said.
“They’re part of the island that used to
be there. You’d have thought they’d take
them all away when they dug out the
island, wouldn’t you?”
“Yes,” I said.
“What are you going to do?” the boy
said. “Throw more rocks?”
“Yes,” I said.
“You want to be careful not to hit
her,” the boy said. “She’s a nice-
looking little boat.”
“Yes,” I said.
She was 14in. long. I had begun her
a year before. She was carrying her
third mast, a three-piece cedar mast a
yard high, with carved yardarms and wire
stays. There was three weeks’ hard work
in the mast alone.
“There’s more stones just at the edge
of the water,” the boy said. “People
seem to think this lake’s deep all over.
It’s not, you know; only about six
inches, some places. Why don’t you
wade out to it?”
“It’s too deep,” I said.
“It’s not deep where the boat is,” the
boy said.
“It’s deep near the bank,” I said. “I
tried it a few months ago.”
“It wouldn’t be much over your
waist,” the boy said.
“I’ve got to go straight from here to
work,” I said.
MY aim with the stones was getting
too good. One went near to
shattering the mast. The sails, her fourth
“Remember ? The man said they Were baby goldfish."
set, representing a year’s experiment, a
raking through Sydney’s shops in search
of fine lawn and three-days’ cutting and
handsewing, were now drenched with grey
water. The hull, except for an occasional
heave, seemed firmly set.
What was I going to say to the boat’s
nominal owner? I should be accused of
sneaking out with her when he was at
kindergarten. I should be asked why I
had let her out of my hands without a
piece of string tied to her. I should be
convicted of selling her and keeping the
hundreds of pounds I always said I
wouldn’t take for her.
“People just come and put their boats
in here without thinking how deep it is,”
the freckled boy said. “Big boats, too.
Three-foot long, some of them. And
you know those models of eighteen-
footers with the long
fins? They put those
in and then they wonder
why they get stuck.”
“But this is the pond
where they have the
races, isn’t it?” I said.
“No,” he said. “That’s
over the other side of
the park.”
“But all the other
ponds have islands on
them,” I said.
“Well, these fellows
don’t seem to think of
that,” the boy said.
“Their boats are always
going ashore on the
islands.”
“And what happens
then?” I said,
“They hang around,”
the boy said, “There
was a couple of fellows
only the other day put
their boat in here and
she went aground. They
hung around for a
while, then when it was
getting dark they went
away. My mate and I
swam out in the morn-
ing and got the boat.
Nice boat, too. You get
some beaut, boats that
way.”
“Yes,” I said, “I sup-
pose you do.”
“We catch ducks,
too,” the boy said. “One
time a lot of us sank a
camouflage-net and floated bread on top
of it, and then hoisted the ducks. We
took them up to the Junction and let
them out. Gee, it was funny. Ducks all
over the tramlines. The cops chased us.”
“And what happened?” I said.
“We swam out to one of the islands
and stayed there till they went away,”
the boy said.
I took out my watch. I had only a
few minutes more to spare.
“Going away now?” the boy said.
“I’ll have to go soon,” I said. “I’ll
give her a few more rocks.”
“She seems set for the night,” the boy
said.
■nUT at that moment, either because of
my wave-making, or because she was
ready to go, my boat lurched forward ;
the stern rose a little as the keel went
over some obstruction; then she righted
herself, bent to the wind, and came sail-
ing into the bank at my feet, where she
struck with a thud.
“She’s a nice little boat, all right,” the
boy said.
I thought I noticed regret in his
admiration.
“Well,” he said, “I’ll be going.”
I did not watch him go. I was too
busy unhooking the sails and stowing
the mast in its long cardboard case and
folding the boat away in its flourbag,
When I looked up again he was gone ;
and, for my part, I hastened away from
that accursed lake clutching my little
boat to my heart, realising for the first
time how Ulysses must have felt as
Scylla and Charybdis fell astern.
Ronald McCuaig.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wunin”: Miss Talknchalk enjoyed
“Jack High’s” yam (B. 8/12/’54) be-
cause, reading through a sixth-grader’s
lively story about a burning building, she
had come across; “Out through the cur-
“ Crikey! I don't blame you, sister !”
tain of leaping flames dashed the preg-
nant fireman, and all the people in the
crowd cheered loudly.” Tactful ques-
tioning at lunch-time produced the solu-
tion. “Oh, miss,” explained Sixth
Grader, “I found that word in the dic-
tionary. It says there that it means carry-
ing a child, and I thought it would be a
good word for the fireman.”
❖ ❖ ***
“Clyde”: The Queensland Temper-
ance League is to consider a suggestion
by the Attorney-General, Mr. Power, that
the league provide homes for inebriates.
Hearing this announcement over the air,
half-shot Harry remarked: “A flamin’
good idea; if a bloke’s gonna drink, he
might just as well drink in comfortable
surroundings.”
*l* ♦♦♦
“Snips”: My youngster, 16, has taken
on a job at 4s. an hour delivering tele-
grams over the Christmas holidays. On
a ten-hour day he will earn £2. Naturally
I am glad of it, with school fees as they
are. But the whole thing doesn’t make
sense. Any school-kid would be glad of
ten-bob a day for the same work.
♦♦♦ *x*
“Ken”: New Australian Rolf Bode,
who four years ago couldn’t speak
English, scored top marks at Sydney
Teachers’ College, including top in both
English and English Literature.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Medina”: My brother-in-law answers
to the name of Neck, and his brother-in-
law carries Butcher as his surname.
Naturally they are both butchers.
“Tom”: The nickname of a relative of
mine, among the staff of the Sydney
factory where he earns his crust, is Franz
Joseph—because in the section he controls
are an Austrian, a Croat and two
Hungarians.
* * ❖
“Rue de L. 8.”: A lot of people seem
to have the wrong idea about the French
Premier’s notion of legislating to force
the French to drink less alcohol. It
doesn’t mean cutting down on wine-
consumption, or even beer. In France
when the Law speaks of alcohol it refers
only to spirits—absinthe in particular,
brandy, rum and so forth. Also, because
M- Mendes-France drinks milk doesn’t
mean that he is a teetotaller. He does
it because of liver-trouble.
❖ ❖ ❖
“St. James St.”: In the days when
Galsworthy had Old Swithin escort Aunt
Julie to Fortnum and Mason’s in Picca-
dilly to buy a jar of their special manna*
lade, the firm—which was established in
1710 and is now one of the world’s best-
known shops, with some quaite exclusive
customahs, luv —was considering whether
one of these newfangled cash-registers
should be installed. Now, I’m informed,
the decision has been made, the peace
and decorum of the vast place being pre-
served by having the machines hidden
from the customers, and without bells.
It makes a nice thought, though I always
believed part of the value of a cash-
register was in its showing the customer
how much was rung-up.
*l* ❖ *
“Curtain Raiser”: Christmas after-
math. A health-inspector was examining
a Fitzroy backyard for insanitary dust-
bins. Behind the woodshed he noticed
an impressive mound of empty bottles
running into three figures. “That’s a
lot of bottles,” said the inspector to the
housewife. “Yes,” piped up her small
son, “and it’s only from one night.”
TO AN UNINHIBITED BRAT
Psychiatrists have said
You should never be “repressed”;
Your ego then will freely be
ascendable.
If they order you to bed.
Just refuse to get undressed.
Or ragefully rend everything that’s
readable.
You may shout “I won’t! I won’t!”
Kick your Old Man in the shin;
Drop-kick the cat with absolute
impunity . . .
There’s no meaning now to "Don’t” ;
Give full rein to your chagrin, \
For psychiatric gyvo gives immunity.
Should you fear you’re “losing face,”
Put a corker act on, do.
Let everybody know that you’re not
bossable.
Put your elders in their place —
They don’t know as much as you.
Tell ’em frankly that they’re just
about impossible.
You may bite and scratch and kick ;
Act the perfect little Hun
Should your parents dare chastise
you for your noisiness . . .
You’ll be safe from Poppa’s stick,
That’s old-fashioned stuff now, son —
You’ll give them joy to grow up nice
and poisonous.
Later, if you’re well endowed
And at sport get near the top.
You’ll find this lack of training’s
been most suitable.
Belt the ball into the crowd
If a vital point you drop!
Remember, refs.’ decisions are dis-
putable ;
And what odds if you get “Boos!”
From those people who may find
Your kind of tantrum somewhat
indigestible ?
Do whatever you may choose —
Sob, or roar, if you’re inclined.
But, ah! Ifs grand to know yoiire
deemed detestable!
N.S.W.
S.W.K,


PERSONAL ITEMS
Lobbed in Sydney for a bit of cricket
(the managerial side, more importantly),
Ronald Aird, between 1926-52 assistant-
secretary of the Marylebone Cricket Club,
now secretary. Lightly built, homburged,
he has a something-in-the-City look about
him, and was that, going from Eton and
Cambridge to the Stock Exchange before
settling at Lord’s. Owns, as well, an air
of command, and M.C. won with Monty’s
Eighth Army at Alamein. While here-
abouts hopes to play a bit of his other
love. Royal tennis —the ancient game
played in a walled court, with the ball
hit over a net and bounced against the
walls. There is one court in Melbourne,
another in Hobart. On the tennis side
Aird is vice-president of the Hampton
Court Tennis Club, set up by Henry VIII
in 1529.
• •
The breed lives on. Back in 1945 doc-
tors warned David Williams, then a just-
released Eighth Division p.-0.-w,, that he
would gradually lose his sight through
the after-effects of malnutrition. Five
years later Williams became totally blind
and in the following year he enrolled at
Queensland University. His name was
among the recent batch of Arts graduates
■—B.A. with five distinctions, three credits
and two passes. Master’s degree next on
the list, with final aim of Doctor of
Philosophy.
GUY HOWARTH, off to Cape Town
University from the Sydney institution.
The half-a-Socrates and half-a-Brad-
man selected to fulfil Cecil Rhodes’s pre-
scription for a potential great man and
go from Melbourne to Oxford is Bruce
Kent, of Sorrento, a history tutor at Mel-
bourne University. Twenty-two and six-
feet-two, the new Rhodes man entered
the Uni. in 1950 and last year graduated
B.A. with first-class honors in Greek and
History. In sport he represented his Alma
Mater in Rugby football, cricket and ath-
letics. Educated at Geelong Grammar,
he is the son of a Sorrento cleric.
• •
A world tour, though not all holiday,
has been started by Allan F. Wilson,
senior lecturer in geology in the Westra-
lian University. Awarded a Fulbright
travel-grant by the U.S. Department of
State, he will spend five months as visit-
ing Professor of Geology in the Indiana
University and two months on a lecture-
tour of eastern Canada and the U.S.,
after which he will inspect American
goldmines and uranium-fields. Thence to
Finland, Ceylon and India, to look over
geologically-old rocks and Ceylonese
cut-gems. His main interest in India
will be charnockites, believed to be
among the world’s oldest stones, though
of little economic value. The name
derives from the rare type of stone at the
head of the grave of Job Charnock, an
official of the East India Company, who
founded Calcutta, and was buried there
in 1693.
• •
Arthur Sewell will preside over the
South Australian Chamber of Manufac-
tures for 1955; he’s been on its council
since 1949. A War II brigadier of Army
ordnance,
• •
Jointly awarded the H. G. Smith
Memorial Medal for 1954 (for the best
contributions over the past 10 years in
developing chemical science in organic
chemistry and biochemistry), Professor A.
J. Birch and Dr. A. Gottschalk. Birch
holds the Chair of Organic Chemistry at
Sydney University ; Gottschalk is research
biochemist at the Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute in Melbourne.
Fourteen men left Melbourne in the
Kista Dan to replace others in their
lonely sojourn at the Macquarie Island
research-station. Among them were
Harry Hicks, Dave Callow and Bernie
Shaw, skilled radio-men whose business
it will be to see if communications be-
tween the base and the mainland can be
established on very high-frequency short-
wave. From so far south such short-
wave-lengths—six metres —has never been
attempted. Melbourne amateur radio-
operator F. G. Bail built the equipment.
• •
Collins of the Sydney;
That’s what he’ll always be known as —
captain of the ship which won the first cruiser-
duel of her war, as her namesake had done
against Emden in 1914. When Vice-Admiral
Sir John Collins clews-up shortly as First Naval
Member and Chief of Naval Staff, he will
have had more than 42 continuous years in the
Service, most of the time afloat. A gunnery
specialist, he indicated his competence early,
when he won first place in his gunnery-course
at that Alma Mater of naval turreteers, Whale
Island gunnery-school in Portsmouth.
His first command was old destroyer Anzac;
his next, the Sydney, two months after war
broke out. Got into it quickly enough—in
three weeks sank a destroyer, took on the
Italian- Battle Fleet off Calabria, with a British
destroyer finished off two E-boats, then met
Bartolomeo Colleoni; blew her bow off, chased
her fleeing sister till fuel and ammo ran
desperately low. Which prompted an individual
signal from “Old-Close-the-Range” Cunning-
ham: “You certainly are a stormy petrel.”
By 1941, and then only commodore, he had
all British warships of the China Force, Perth
and American Houston among them, placed
under his corilmand. He got out of Java, and
was soon at sea again in command of cruiser
Shropshire—invasions, and capture of Manus
and Hollandia. Then the Australia, when a
ball of petrol-driven fire from a Jap zombie
put him in hospital for weeks. Knighted In
1951, he had another distinct honor—the first
graduate of the R.A.N. College to have held
the post he shortly relinquishes.
An officer with a friendly, wholly personal
power-of-command, he has always been con-
scious of the value of publicity for the Silent
Service to get his ships manned. The flair has
sometimes been wrongly construed. When he
returned to Sydney with Colleoni on his honor-
roll, he enjoyed the march through the city
like a schoolboy on holiday; and enjoyed the
speeches afterwards as he would a four-hour-
watch in an Arctic blow. The contrast is the
index to his character.
• •
Finished with public pockets, F. B. Lee
is calling it a day as Deputy Commis-
sioner of Taxation in South Australia.
Just over half a century in the public
service.
• •
“Cauboy”: Back in Melbourne to
launch a permanent ballet company under
the auspices of the Australian Ballet
Society, Walter Gore and wife Paula
Hinton. Their idea is to establish a com-
pany on the Sadlers Wells model, to
dance in Victorian country centres, have
an annual Melbourne season, and visit
other capital cities. Himself a choreo-
grapher, Gore will dance in his own
ballets. He was here with the Ballet
Rambert and was responsible for the
most sensational ballet of the season;
based on the eternal triangle, it was
danced with a passionate intensity which
made audiences sit up,
• •
“X.”: Melbourne’s weather! Jack
Young, of Adelaide, former world
cycling-champion, drove a car 2000 miles
to ride at Maribyrnong speedway. The
track had been washed out. Two weeks
later he drove his car 2000 miles to com-
pete at Maribyrnong speedway. The
track had been washed out.
• •
Last year Keith Finlay, D.Sc., became
the first Westralian scientist to win a
Nuffield Dominion travelling-scholarship
for agricultural research. A lightly-
framed 30 and a good lecturer, he went
to Cambridge, working in the genetics
unit of the university’s Agricultural
Research Council, and researching at
Rothamsted as a follow-up to his earlier
work as a research-fellow at the Westra-
lian University’s Institute of Agriculture.
Finlay has now been appointed to the
staff of the Waite Institute in South
Australia, senior plant-breeder and
geneticist.
• •
Westralia’s Rhodes man for 1955,
Geoffrey Alexander Kennedy, is a law-
graduate now articled to a Perth legal
firm. At Perth’s Scotch College dux,
editor of the school-magazine, and out-
standing at tennis and hockey, he has
scored five University prizes, including
the J. A. Wood Memorial Prize awarded
to the best graduate in law. Last year he
was president of the Law Students’ Asso-
ciation (the Blackstone Society), a member
of the Guild Council, president of the
University Hockey Club and of the Uni-
versity Liberal Club. Hopes for his
B.C.L. degree at Oxford.
Landed in Sydney from the U.S. with
news of yet another cinema-screen
(“Cinerama,” which uses a wide, curved
screen so that action seems to be happen-
ing round the audience), Alfred Edward
Daff, who began his cinema-career
behind a projector in South Melbourne.
He’s now vice-president of Universal
Pictures and president of Universal Inter-
national Films, Joining the company
as a booker and suburban salesman, he
worked up to managing-director of
Japanese Universal when Nippon went
movie-conscious. Been in Hollywood the
past 19 years.
• •
When Admiral Sir Wilfrid Rupert
Patterson died in a London hospital as a
result of a fall on the marble steps of
Australia House, there passed a man
who had been one of the Royal Navy’s
best gunnery experts. A tall, cultivated
Belfast man of 61, with the polished naval
manner which is so often, with R.N.
types, a cloak for icy courage and deadly
efficiency, Patterson was Chief of Staff
to the Flag Officer Commanding the Aus-
tralian Squadron just before War II broke
out, and captain of cruiser Canberra.
Bulletin artist Lock used him (though
certainly not his character and habits)
as the model for the C.O.S. of his Rear-
Admiral Prendergast pictures—and no
one enjoyed the fun more than the victim.
After his Australian service Patterson
crossed back to the R.N., was appointed
to battleship King George V, in com-
mand, and had her when she and Rodney
closed in on Bismarck for the kill. He
had been in civil life four years at the
end, director of a fan-making company in
London.
• •
In Australia to gain scientific informa-
tion from this end about shooting rockets
into outer space, Arthur C. Clarke, for-
merly chairman of the British Interplanet-
ary Society. He predicts that the race
between America and Russia to send up
satellite-rockets will probably bear fruit
within the next 10 years, and that eventu-
ally the earth wilt be circled with satel-
lites, like artificial moons, with radio-
equipment. Another interest is making
colored motion-pictures of life under the
sea. He has already photographed under-
water life off Florida and in the Gulf of
Mexico, and will continue this work along
the Barrier Reef. Has written several
very good scientific books on space-
travel.
• •
New chief-manager for the Common-
wealth Bank in Queensland, H. L. Bailey
goes there from a similar post in Perth,
With the bank 33 years, he’s a New
Guinea Digger,
• •
Back in 1916, John Clezy joined the
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) branch of the
E., S. & A. bank as a clerk. He landed
back home the other day after 16 years,
now general-manager of the bank in
London.
• •
This is Major-General A. G. Wilson,
now G.O.C. Central Command, Kes-
wick (S.A.). Since graduating from
Duntroon he has served in most States
G.O.C.
of his own country, twice in India, twice
in Britain, in most of the Pacific islands
on the way up to Japan, and in the last-
named country for 18 months as CO. of
the British Commonwealth base in Kure.
Also on Thursday Island ; O.C. there—
of the island’s garrison of 11 men —
when lon Idriess was wandering in those
parts gathering material for Drums of
Mer. That was back in 1926.
Federal controller of programmes for
the A.B.C. in the absence abroad of Dr.
Keith Barry, Clement Semmler, at 39,
has made a swift ascent of the A.B.C.’s
executive ladder. Scion of a South Aus-
tralian farming family, he notched his
M.A. at Adelaide Uni., concentrating on
literature under Professor Innes-Stuart.
He turned to high-school teaching, won a
couple of play-competitions, and crashed
the ether-barrier at 25, to be promptly
A.B.C.
put in charge of school-broadcasts. He
made it a short leap from that to Federal
script- and play-editor, thence assistant-
director of variety. For the past five
years he has been deputy Federal con-
troller of programmes. Heritage of earlier
middle-distance running, Australian Rules
football and cricket is an athletic figure
which seems to give the lie to his birth-
certificate. A fair-sized garden now pins
him to the soil at weekends.
• •
Back for a fresh look at old ground,
the Laird of Dinnet, Aberdeenshire,
otherwise Sir Malcolm Barclay-Harvey,
between 1939-44 Governor of South
Australia. Crowded a good deal into
his 64 years—officer of the 7th Battalion,
Gordon Highlanders, in the first part of
War I, later in the Ministry of Muni-
tions ; two terms as Parliamentary-
secretary to the Secretary of State for
Scotland; and represented two Scottish
constituencies in the Commons up to the
time of his Australian appointment (he
was made hon. colonel of his old
battalion that same year). With him is
his wife, Lady Muriel, daughter of the
twelfth Earl of Lindsey.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 67, Sir Leslie McConnan,
chief-manager of the National Bank when the
fight was on against the Chifley Government’s
attempted bank-grab. Chairman of the Asso-
ciated Banks of Victoria at the time, he organ-
ised the campaign against the Government’s
proposals, and his leadership was regarded as
so important that he was given 12 months’
extension of his chairmanship. Bom at
Benalla, son of a Presbyterian minister, he
joined the local branch of the bank at 17, was
a manager at 27 and at 33 was sub-manager of
the Sydney office. He became chief-manager at
47.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 88, Edward Rogers
Webb, who crossed from Sydney as a child,
to become bursar of Christ’s College in 1916
and hold the post for 24 years. A great
Rugbyite, he played against N.S.W., and
Stoddart’s English team in 1888; the New
Zealand team which went to the first amateur
Australasian athletic championships in Mel-
bourne in 1891 was under his management. He
was awarded M.B.E. last year.
At 77, in Sydney, Walter Cresswell O’Reilly,
for 14 years from 1928 Chief Commonwealth
Film Censor. He began in the N.S.W. Justice
Department, was a gunner in France with the
7th Battery, Field Artillery, and had been
mayor of Kuringai, Sydney’s forest suburb, for
five terms. He worked particularly hard to
preserve forests and wild-life, and was a his-
torian of Sydney’s north shore.
At Castlemaine (Vic.), at 90, Colonel J. W. B.
Field, of the old Bth Battalion, and wounded
at the Landing. His son, War II Brigadier
John Field, is head of Victoria’s Yalloum
power-station.
In Perth, at 74, the Vicomte de Pierres,
soldier, fanner and member of the old French
nobility, who came to Australia about 54 years
ago. With two brothers, he started raising
horses and cattle on Cooper Creek, near Lake
Eyre, in South Australia. On the advice of the
late Sir James Mitchell he moved to
Westralia in 1911 and took up land near
Denderbin Rock in the eastern wheatbelt. The
development of a farm of 10,000 acres was
interrupted by World War I, when he returned
to France, served as an artillery-officer in the
French Army, and later as liaison-officer with
the British forces.
At 49, in Melbourne, Charles Lane, director
of a big real-estate firm. Several times
amateur sprint-champion of Victoria, he repped
for Australia at the 1924 Paris Olympics, and
the year before set a record (which still stands)
for the 440 at the combined public school sports
in Melbourne.


]fo? #UU-0 ?
V 1 ? J
'Qd&sj as? CwP } ViQ I J'OU uP <r
0? v
■nmo'ST, 0,0 Boy, ALMOST,
WAKEY-WAKEY!


ABORIGINALITIES
OOMEWHAT joyfully a Melbourne
paper tells us that “Bow Yard Annie,”
a Murray-cod that weighed 1101 b.
dressed, is no more. It was caught near
Barmah, on a hunk of corned-beef with
an 801 b.-strain nylon line, and took 25
minutes to land.
Annie was 4ft. lOin, long and 50in.
round the girth, and had “defied” fisher-
men for four years.
Apart from the absurdity of a big cod
“defying” anybody, it seems a pity Annie
was taken.
Any cod over 201 b. weight is poor eat-
ing, and though it may be claimed that
this one’s removal from the river will
reduce the death-rate of smaller fish,
left in the river and talked about it would
have attracted visitors if given protection
by the Fisheries Department and adver-
tised.
Think of the legends that would have
grown, think of the people who’d have
come home from a Murray holiday with
snapshots of Annie! Why, Frank Clune
“ Cap'n'll now give a travel-talk , ‘Up Broken 'III Way.'"
could have written a book about it;
commercial radio could have sponsored
interviews with hatters, walers and
mounted-police from Thule to Tammit!
Do the Scots slay their Loch Ness
monster or the Tibetans their Abomin-
able Snowman! Out on these destroyers
of our national wonders!
Old-timer.
♦ * * *
“Columba”; “C.A.A.’s” surmise (B.
24/11/’54) that some of the numerous
fox-puppies found in one burrow had
been adopted may be correct. In our
household, with the regularity of the
tides, two cats, mother and daughter,
have their kittens on the same day. Old
Puss gets a fever for a couple of days
and lies about uninterested in her brood.
Young Puss, apparently unable to stand
the wailing of the neglected kittens, takes
them in with her own and feeds them.
Old Puss soon picks up, and from then
on the nursery becomes a communal
one, the matrons never bothering
to sort out their offspring.
• ♦ ♦
“B. A. Ker”; I’m not an
admirer of most “comic”-
strips, but the artist who does
Prince Valiant has earned my
encomiums, not only for his fine
draughtsmanship but because of
the painstaking detail he puts
into the drawings. But even
Homer may nod. In a recent
episode Vai’s small son took a
bow much taller than himself
and went shooting hares. That
the animals proved to be black-
and-white creatures 1 can readily
overlook color-printers do
far more fantastic things with
Nature —but the hares were
playing around a warren, the
word printed and the burrows
shown!
♦ ♦ •
“8.A.K.”; Although Nature
had countless varieties of timber
to toy with in Australia, only
one, cypress-pine, was given
qualities that make it anathema
to borers and termites. Simi-
larly in Africa only one timber
—Mlanje-cedar—is borer- and
termite-proof. Growing in the
high mountains of Nyasaland, it is
not a true cedar; like the Australian
cypress, it is a conifer. But, unlike this
cypress, it is very gummy. Both are
strongly aromatic, and therein perhaps
lies the secret of their resistance to pests.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Morayda”: My mate and I were
interested spectators of a blackfeilow row
on Ilbumric, Central Australia. A lubra
had accused another of carrying yarns,
and the fight began. Forty-odd men and
lubras turned out with bean-tree shields,
mulga- and dogwood-boomerangs, spears,
nullas, yamsticks and tomahawks. One
boy brandished a butcher’s-knife and
another came over to us and asked for
a revolver. In spite of this formidable
display, the only casualties were a lubra,
poked in the ribs with an iron yamstick,
and a blackboy, cracked over the ankle
with a boomerang. Next day the whole
row was forgotten.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Sunday afternoon on
the river-bank. We lay drowsy. Beside
us on the grass a mess of newspapers—
Saturday papers from the south, Sunday
papers from the north. Mat turned over.
“Man’s a mug to buy the papers on a
Sunday,” he growled. “Y* read all about
the beaten favorites and what their
trainers said, who won the cricket and
why, what’s wrong with some tennis kid,
big doin’s in Russia and China or some-
where, what’s wrong with wheat or wool
or politics or the law —strike me, it’s
enough to give y’ the blues.” I didn’t
say anything. “Wake up to y’self,” he
snorted. “Here’s all these writer-blokes
sweatin’ themselves silly rakin’ up the
news an’ showin’ y’ how crook things
are. And what do y’ do? Lie on the
ruddy river-bank and don’t give a hoot.”
I opened an eye. “What d’ y’ want me t’
do?” I grunted. He got up, threw a
stick in the river, looked along the bank,
sighed, sat down again. “Aw, well,” he
"The flying-doctor couldn't come to see Strawb., so we're taking
her to see him."
growled, “y* could stayt arguin’ about
somethin’, couldn’t y’?”
* * * *
“Bellfield”: Whether or not the abo,
is unable to demonstrate grief (B.
10/11 / ’54), a very reliable witness has
left evidence that Binghi used to have
both the emotional impulse and physical
ability to cry. In the account of his last
exploration Charles Sturt tells how he left
a native named Nadbuck at a base-camp
and pushed on into the drought-parched
interior. After months of privation the
little party returned. The native was
overjoyed that the white men were not
dead, as he had presumed they must have
been. Sturt put it: “The tears chased each
other down the old man’s cheeks when he
saw us again.” Admitted, the abo. was
crying with relief, not grief, but surely
a male who would cry with pleasure
would be even more likely to cry with
sorrow,
* ♦ ♦ •
“Salmon Gums”; An Adelaide com-
pany is to exploit W.A. graphite deposits,
and locals say the job shouldn’t be hard.
The stuff’s there, in quantity, in a number
of places. The company intends to start
at Munglinup, but it might pay to have
a look at the Donnelly River outcrop.
One hill there contains thousands of tons
of graphite, and it’s so obvious on the
surface that you could make a slide and
get up a fair speed downhill. The
graphite is very fine-grained—there are
no W.A. deposits of solid graphite such
as they mine in Ceylon. Next to uranium,
the chief ingredients of an atomic-pile are
the big blocks of graphite in which
uranium is enclosed. The graphite
slows-down the action of the uranium
neutrons.
* ♦ • ♦
“Reims”: I never cease to marvel at
an education-system that can take youths
to matriculation standard and leave them
almost completely clueless about the more
common terms in everyday use. Writing
of an expedition up the Westralian coast,
a young Perth journalist said that, hav-
ing reachd their destination, they “struck
camp” in a hollow about 300yds, from
the shore. What he obviously meant was
that they “made” camp, or established
their camp, or raised their tents if they
had them; he had any number of expres-
sions to choose from, yet he used the
term which means to dismantle the camp
and leave the area.
* • ft
“Kerba”: With a westerly gale driving
it, the “Red Steer” came roaring across
the paddock, dry paspalum adding more
fire to its scorching breath. There were
other houses scattered in its path, but we
had no time to think beyond the first one.
In a matter of seconds everything
appeared to be on fire. The clothes on
the line vanished, leaving the stubs of
pegs still burning; the trellis in front of
the shed was on fire, the short grass in
the backyard alight and the flames sweep-
ing on.. A sudden explosive blaze flared
high and drove us back, still beating
desperately. From inside the house came
a little girl’s shrill scream. I turned, and
beheld the grandest sight I ever expect
to see. The stranger held a dilapidated
hose that leaked in half a dozen places,
but it squirted —and where it was wanted
most. It laid down a barrier on the grass,
sprayed sizzlingly over the fibre wall,
leapt to where the trellis was setting fire
to the shed. Incredibly the position be-
came reasonably safe. “Take the hose.
I’ve got a bike,” the stranger ordered,
I saw him go pedalling madly to beat the
fire to the next house. He won by a
short margin. I saw smoke arise from
around the foundations. His firebreak
saved the place. Sunday brought the
usual crowd of stickybeak motorists.
“They were lucky,” said one. “Look, the
fire got right to their doorstep!” He
was looking at the break. I wouldn’t call
it luck.
* * * *
“Bagot”: Wonder how many painters,
famous and otherwise, have committed
the boner of coloring the crustaceans in
their seascapes as though they had just
come from the boiling-pot? The latest
contributor to the list is the artist
responsible for the cover of a Westralian
annual. By the ocean’s edge a hand-
some young spearfisherman has laid his
spoils at the feet of an, admiring beach-
beauty. The lone crayfish in the catch
is a bright scarlet.
MAC AND MIKE
Mac and Mike can split a straw
More ways than barristers-at-law,
Turn inside out and upside down
The largest topics of the town,
And when in argument they can
Recall no more where they began,
To end dispute but keep it prime
And honors even till next time,
Mike calls Mac a heretic
And Mac calls Mike $ Mick.
Mac and Mike can differ from
Each other till the cows come home
(So to speak and put it plain),
And when they meet they start again.
Their fervor for debate confounds
Dogs in gutters, boys on rounds,
And babes in prams parked near the
strife
Blanch and grow alarmed at life
When Mike calls Mac a heretic
And Mac calls Mike a Mick.
Mac and Mike, much like the Band,
Have had for years the same street
stand.
And pension-day finds them in place
Turning purple in the face;
And when their throats grow dry as
sand
They carry on inside the Grande.
Society’s and God’s despair,
They feud, they swear —but don’t
you dare
Tell Mike that Mac’s a heretic
Or Mac that Mike’s a Mick!
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
SEEING THINGS
TN one thing, at least, man can claim
superiority over all other animals—
in his development of a sense-organ
responsive to light.
Most land-animals are short-sighted
for the reason that their eyes are close
to the ground, there are more obstruc-
tions between them and any distant
object, and there’s therefore been no need
to develop long-range vision. They are
guided most by smells and sounds. Their
sight is probably pretty good for a few
hundred yards, but beyond that they can
only detect movement, and their powers
of classification become limited and of
recognition hopeless. They also appear
to be color-blind.
Birds, freed from the ground, have
better sight than four-footed animals,
that of hawks and eagles being particu-
larly, though unduly, celebrated. They
can’t do much more than see a rabbit
move from probably less than a couple
of thousand feet.
A man, on the other hand, can see
another man walking from a distance of
20,000 ft., recognise a friend at 5000,
put a bullet through an enemy at 2000,
write the Lord’s Prayer on a trey-bit
without artificial aid, separate a thou-
sand shades of color between red and
violet, and, because of his appreciation
of shape and form, build a-Taj Mahal,
carve a “David,” and know as much
about geometry as he does. This is the
fantastic performance permitted by an
organ that has developed from a set of
nerve-endings barely able to distinguish
day from night!.
MILLICENT.


TWO currawongs hustled a peewee
from her mud nest high in the big
gum. Crying piteously for aid, she fought
hard to save her precious eggs. Her
mate returned in a flurry of black-and-
white wings, but the pied predators had
both weight and guile. One dodged about
amongst the branches, seeking to draw
the defenders away from the nest, while
the other waited his chance near by. The
yellow yolk of an egg already stained one
black beak when help arrived. The red
wattle- (gill-) bird has an extensive
repertoire of rasping, aggressive calls, but,
oddly enough, is a silent fighter. This
one glided in without a sound and hit the
egg-eater so hard that he gave a startled
squawk and fled ignominiously, relent-
lessly harassed by the smaller bird. The
other currawong, seeing the game was
up, lit out with both peewees on his tail.
Returning from his strenuous efforts the
gill-bird paused a moment on the big
gum to preen his feathers. He was
immediately assailed by the peewees,
and, with almost an apologetic air, left
their territory. That was not only rank
ingratitude but poor judgment, for the
intrepid honeyeater never mixes eggs with
his diet of nectar. —“Saaedi.”
* * • •
“B. A. Ker”: The white substance my
mate was sprinkling into his big aquarium
as I approached was, I learned, not fish-
food but ordinary salt. It seemed the gold-
fish were suffering from a skin-disease
caused by some minute wog, and the way
to fix the parasite was to make the water
salty. My fears for the fish were dis-
counted: goldfish could live equally well
in fresh-water or water too salty for
humans to drink. Three weeks later the
fish had completely recovered. On the
other hand, I learn that when sharks find
themselves host to too many sea-lice they
swim up rivers until the water becomes
so fresh that the vermin die and drop off.
* * * *
“Bass”; Treasure-hunters have found
the wreck of a ship on a rugged part of
the W.A. coast less than 500 miles north
of Perth; they think it’s the Dutch ship
Zuytdorp, which vanished en route from
the Cape of Good Hope to Batavia in
1742. It seems that some lives were
saved, and broken clay-pipes and rusty
barrel-rungs were found some distance
inland. Other finds include several hun-
dred silver coins, parts of a mast, a
cannon breechlock, marine instruments,
musket-balls, hinges and catches from
trunks. A rather odd angle is that
with all the castaways who must have
come ashore along that coast —there were
over 100 from the Gilt Dragon—no
skeletons have been found and no trace
seems to have been left in the aborigine
legends.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Tom came running for
his morning milk as usual; but the
strangled sound from his throat was a
caricature of his usual cheerful “mee-ow.”
It was sufficient, though, to relax his grip
ever so little on the bush-canary he was
holding in his mouth. He gazed in
puzzled wonder at the fast-vanishing bird,
clearly intimating: “What chance has a
cat got?”
* * ♦ %
“Vega”: The delightful verse “Ginoon-
dan-Ban-Ban Springs” (B. 8/12/.’54)
surely deserves a response, and as one
who passes that way on the hot dusty
road to Central Burnett I can testify that
the water of the springs still bubbles and
murmurs clear, cold and sparkling
amongst the hard, black rocks, as though
glad to be free after its long, dark journey
from the distant hills. The watercress
flourishes beneath the willows, and a
near-by rest-area, with avenue of Portu-
guese-elms, adds to the beauty of a cool
oasis in an often parched and thirsty land.
To stop a while, to taste the mineral
water and to wash away the dust of
travel, is too great a temptation to forgo.
The changeless crystal stream, older than
the aborigines who named it, seems a
symbol of stability. But the children’s
voices are no longer heard at Ginoondan
school. Forlorn and deserted, the play-
“I’m sick of trying to PUSH the pram through the crowd.”
around overerown with grass and weeds,
How ofleS r welcoming call to a
traveller with his packhorse passing by.
traveller wun ms f &
* * ♦ ♦
“Archaen”; No ethnologist will query
the substitution of “boomerang” for
“staff” in the latest translation of
Homer’s Iliad (B. 8/12/.’54). The boomer-
ang is a very ancient weapon. Very good
specimens, at least 10,000 years old, have
been found in the peat-bogs of Den-
mark In Ancient Egypt they were used
for killing wildfowl. I have handled a
specimen taken from an Egyptian tomb
of about 3000 b.c. which was very like
those used by our abos. The Greeks, as
well, probably adopted th§ boomerang as
a weapon for killing small game —a pur-
pose for which it is well adapted.
* * * ♦
“Morayda”: When members of the
Kayditj tribe (many of whom live on
the Central Australian cattle-station
Murray Downs) had a row with their
neighbors one of their top men was
“boned.” He was cured after a corroborce
which went on for a night and half a
day non -stop. During the ceremony a
Kayditj doctor, known as Riley, bit th»
boned victim’s chest until blood was
drawn Then the doc. spat out a piece of
w j re> w hich he claimed had entered the
victim’s heart when he was boned.
Shortly afterwards another victim was
brought along. Another corroboree and
chest-biting and the second victim was
cured, but Riley had to have a fortnight s
holiday. He claimed that a needle had
jumped out of the victims heart into
his own!
SALVATION JANE
Summer is come, with Salvation Jane
Shouting her purple on the plain.
Alizarin crimson hides between
Electric-blue in her petals sh cen >
Flatwashed mauve by the brush of ram.
Salvation Jane! What a name to fashion
For this flaunting daughter of summer s passion
Who shares her charms throughout the land,
Submits her favors with lavish hand
To pub-keeper, fettler or stationhand.
Never in prim poke-bonneted manner
Her hymn of praise: she flies her banner
To the lusty tunes of the wild and free:
Of the bull in heat; of the drowsy bee;
Of the languorous spell of bosomy summer.
Summer is gone, Salvation Jane; _ -
Grey mists shift on the silvered plain.
Swift was the summer, swift and sweet,
And beauty died in the sweat and heat.
But in hill and cutting, field and lane,
The seed is set, to be born again • • •
Next summer you’ll find salvation, Jane.
N.S.W.
THEA MARKER.
TRAIN PESTS
AS a humane man I have long held
that painless destruction of pests
should be universally practised ; yet such
is the perverse state of our laws that if,
even with the fullest justification, one
were to administer to a pestiferous fellow-
train-traveller a snort of prussic-acid one
would be up on a capital charge!
I can speak on this subject feelingly.
I had just settled down in the window-
seat of the suburban carriage, crossed my
“Missed him!”
legs and opened my moming-paper when
a huge female, ignoring other vacant
seats, selected that next to me.
The morning before it had been a
friendly redhead who had nonchalantly
entertained me by painting her nails all
the way in; the morning before that a
nifty little blonde with fascinatingly long
eyelashes. And now , . .
Apparently the method of designers of
our railway-carriages in calculating
double seating-space is to measure two
average spreads and take 10 p.c. off the
total,
As the woman wedged herself m 1
could feel myself being gradually squashed
up against the side of, the carriage, my
ribs in danger of being stove-m at any
moment. I turned , to her, being fortu-
nately able to move my neck.
“Madam,” I said, in the cool, imper-
sonal tone I reserve for speaking to
(some) strange females in public, “would
you be so considerate as to brea e
when I am breathing in, and vice ver a.
By breathing in and out simultaneously
with me, as you are doing at presen ,
am constantly being massaged against e
side of the carriage. I don t mind tor
myself, but if, as seems likely, you
eventually succeed in rubbing me ngnt
through it you may face prosecution by
the railway authorities for malicious
damage to the department s rolling-
stock.”
She evidently was a nark, for she
looked at me contemptuously and rasped:
“I’ll breathe any way that suits me! ”
It was a tactical mistake, as I immedi-
ately discovered, for as she took in
breath to reply I felt some vital organ
surge over to its wrong side. However,
I am not one to break off an engagement
lightly.
“Well,” I replied evenly, “that would
be like a grampus. There is also the
question of the available seating-space,
the preponderance of which you have
taken possession of. Would you mind,
before next you select the seat alongside
me, kindly to confine your chassis in a
sufficient rigidity of whalebone and
elasticised fabric and thus prevent por-
tion at least of your blancmange from
encroaching on the area to the occupancy
of which 1 am legally entitled by virtue of
the ticket I paid for?”
Reasonable though this courteously
worded request undoubtedly was, it
nevertheless aroused in her a vindictive-
ness to which she gave expression when
later I brushed past her to alight. She
deliberately breathed out heavily and
flattened me against the seat in front ...
There is another pest no less harassing.
You happen to glance up and catch him
staring at you from his opposite seat, and
he keeps staring. You look back at your
paper and after a while look up again.
He still has his eyes glued on yours.
Heavens! Perhaps there’s something
wrong with your face —other than
normal, of course. Surreptitiously, be-
hind your paper, you run your hand
over your chiv., just in case you happened
to have absentmindedly forgotten to
shave one half of it. Or perhaps there
might still be some shaving-soap in the
convolutions of your lugs? But no.
A little later you take a cautious screw
around the edge of your paper; he is
still staring at you. And you’re narked
to find you almost have a feeling of guilt
at having been caught peeking at him.
So you rebelliously think: Damn the
cow —you’ll outstare him! You look up
again and catch his unblinking, penetrat-
ing gaze, but you can’t keep it up. There-
after you are condemned for the re-
mainder of the journey to have your eyes
attracted as if by a magnet to his per-
petually boring-stare every minute or
so . . .
Then there is the bloke who likes to
ge t his news on the cheap. Constant
practice has made him expert at being
at q e t 0 read the paper alongside him
without turning his head. You can sense
b j g unspoken reproach whenever you
tum over a pagej having just skimmed
the headlines, leaving him unable to
finish reading some article.
J OQCe tried to effect a cure b y offering
fellow the back-page of my
momiog-paper, expressing my belief that
he would find the In Memonam verses
both stimulating and “pWhnS- He
enly offered to swap it for the sports
section . . s
Perhaps you raise the same sort ot
shudder as I do when the acquaintance
w j t h the booming voice, whom you
thought you had cleverly eluded on the
platform, casts-up in the vacant seat
beside you. As he informs the packed
peak-hour carriage that he saw you at
the weekend trying to teach your missus
to drive the new car, and that he con-
siders you’re a bloody hero tor
taking it on, you squirm m your seat
and pull your hat down a bit further over
your eyes. Further still when he loudly
asks if your string of boils has cleared
U p, or opines that you’ve been taking off a
bit of weight lately (“ Y ou used to have
a gut on you like a poisoned pup! ), you
could cheerfully feed the fellow to tne
screeching-wheels below , . •
Another champion curse-raiser is the
cove wb o comes in and heaves up to the
rack above you a huge suitcase which,
judging by his efforts to get it up, is full
G f lead-ingots. He regards with un-
inhibited fun the nervous glances you con-
tinually cast up at the perilously over-
hanging case, magnificently confident of
his balancing feat...
Sharing an honored place in the list
of nec kpains beside the transporter-home
of blood-bone-and-offal is the irrepres-
sibly talkative stranger who, just as you
o^n your no vel, eager to resume the
fascinating tale, insists on searching out
your v j ews on every subject from the
f rea k weather we’ve been having to some-
one ’ s spe ech at a U.N. Assembly .. .
dor p t they make railway-carriage
. . b ig enoug h to hurl people out?
BO.


A BANKING TRADITION
# ,, down through the Changing Years
EFFICIENT,
WISE AND
FRIENDLY
SERVICE
Camels replace horses in a Cobb & Co.
Coach during a period of severe drought.
OuR pioneers were determined and resourceful men. Hardships
did not prevent them from penetrating the outback. Those who
followed them to build the towns and to establish industrial and
commercial activities were imbued with the same spirit. For many
years, discomfort was their lot —and, certainly, the keynote of travel.
This Bank has played its part, from the early days, in aiding
such men. It provided a wise, friendly and efficient banking service
which has been extended through an ever growing number of
country branches.
ď
To-day, we of this Bank, owned and
staffed by Australians, are proud to carry
on this tradition of helpful service to men
of enterprise engaged in the further
development of our nation.
Head Office, or the Manager of our
branch nearest to you, will gladly give
particulars of our service.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Uranches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
Business,Rollery, Etc.
Gear-changing in 1955
nnHE past year has been
notable for its record rate
of factory production, another
lift in the price of steel, fairly
steady primary production, lower
prices for wheat and wool, more
stable costs of production, a year-
end rise in some wage-margins
(and more likely to come), a
sudden drop in the export income
(with a consequent need to
curtail importing), a drain on our
overseas funds, a policy of
restricting bank-credit again
towards the end of the year,
unprecedented use of hire-
purchase facilities, higher profits
and dividends by public com-
panies (the result of the increased
activity, more stable costs and
lower taxation), an only-
moderate rise in the prices of
shares of dividend-increasing
companies, longer yields gener-
ally from Stock Exchange invest-
ments, a bond-rate stable at 4\
p.c., but with hire-finance com-
panies offering 6 p.c. and 7 p.c.
for four-five-year money.
That is rather a long paragraph
of “notable events” ; but it has
been an eventful year, with
natural economic laws coming
more into evidence than at any
time since 1939. And the events
enumerated in the paragraph
need to be pondered over, studied
in relation to each other, and
weighed for their significance on
the trend of things for 1955,
The most disturbing items in
the list are the drop in overseas
income and the possibility of
renewed cost-inflation arising out
of the lift in margins for skill,
even though these margin-
increases have been a long time
in coming. Also disturbing is
the increasing shortage of labor
and the scarcity of some raw
materials, especially steel.
So far as potential demand
is concerned, there is no question
about the shortage of capital
works in the Commonwealth.
Since the war ended there has
been considerable dissipation of
public funds on ill-considered
and worse-handled State public
works, and this has made the gap
in public-works construction
worse than it need have been.
Public transport systems are
rickety as well as rackety (in spite
of partial suppression of road-
transport), and much expenditure
on railways and roads is already
overdue. City building activity
is years behind, port facilities are
inadequate, and much private
capital expenditure in the rural
areas has had to be deferred
because of shortage of manpower
and materials, even though there
has been an unprecedented
availability of funds to carry
out such work. On the land
there has probably been an over-
expenditure on mechanical
equipment and an under-
expenditure on fences, buildings,
etc.
This great backlog of potential
employment is one of the
dominant economic factors in
Australia. Side-by-side with it,
unfortunately, exists the
anachronism of the 40-hour week
and the inhibiting scarcity of
labor, especially skilled labor.
During 1954 productivity made
some headway against the
output-depressing influence of
the 40-hour week. Output per
man-hour in most manufactur-
ing industries rose to the highest
level on record, aided by
increased managerial efficiency,
improved plant and equipment.
fewer power- and fuel-shortages
and a generally higher demand.
But the rate of improvement in
this regard was not enough to
enable the tempo of output to
draw nearer to overseas factory-
efficiency, which in the major
manufacturing countries is far
ahead of many Australian
industries. Some Australian
factory production can still be
exported at a profit, but generally
this is the result of lower raw-
material costs, particularly steel.
(This year’s rise in steel prices
reduces Australia’s competitive
margin still further.)
With a growing shortage of
labor in Australia, the obvious
remedy for many present and
imminent problems would be an
increase in the output of those
in employment. This could be
achieved without harm to
anyone. It is needed most in
the basic industries and the build-
ing trades. The question is how
to get it. Trade-union policy—
especially the policy of Com-
munist-run unions—has been
opposed to greater output per
man-hour. And with manpower
in short supply the unions are
again getting the whip-hand,
though the position remains
much better than it was in 1951.
The present central - bank
policy of credit - restriction
springs from two things—the
state of almost overfull employ-
ment and the drop in income for
our exports. The Common-
wealth Bank aims at the banking
system providing “sufficient, but
not more than sufficient, funds
to meet the needs of an expand-
ing economy.” As a general
policy that is undoubtedly
sound. More than sufficient
funds made available at the
present time would not help
basic industries which are short
either of manpower or raw
materials. Funds would tend
again to flow into consumer-
goods and luxury industries,
which would draw labor and
supplies away from essential
occupations. Inflation and
economic dislocation would be
the logical result.
The great necessity of 1955
will be to increase productive
efficiency. It is quite possible
that some improvement will take
place. The next 12 months will
be full of changing circum-
stances, and the one certain thing
is that Australia will be in need
of bigger quantities of most
essential raw materials, coal
“Come back in the morning. I've got to dash of for the
next episode of ‘Crime Does Not Pay.' "
possibly excepted. We may be
short of imported goods again—
this will depend on what we get
in return for our exports. It is
likely to be a year of consider-
able gear-changing, with varying
scenery, but the trip on the whole
should be satisfactory so long as
the passengers behave themselves
during the tight pinches.
Drilling for Gas
“Petro”: After some weeks
of self-imposed abstinence from
any mention of oil or gas, one
Sunday newspaper has again
blossomed into banner headlines.
This time the victim is the test-
well of Australian Oil and Gas,
to be spudded-in about mid-
January, on Kurrajong Heights
(N.S.W.), and it is stated that,
as a result of the proposed drill-
ing activities, local properties are
being withdrawn from sale “in
expectation of a steep rise in
land-values.”
A further cause for excitement
is that the tool-pusher, complete
in green-and-brown Texan boots,
on being asked in the local pub
when he was going to strike oil,
is reputed to have stated:
It’s bubbling up there now, oozing
out of the ground in the middle of
the clearing, and everybody’s happy.
The presence of gas is highly
probable, as such manifestations
are common in faulted ground
overlying coal-measures. Such
gas, however, is formed, gener-
ally, under aerobic conditions
(i.e., in presence of air) and it
differs from the natural
petroleum gas (generated under
anaerobic conditions) in includ-
ing a high proportion of carbon-
dioxide (as at Mulgoa).
It is also possible, in such a
locality, that oil (,not petroleum)
might be generated from coal
or oil-shale through proximity to
hot igneous intrusions, but here
again it would differ substantially
in composition from petroleum
crude-oil. In any case, the
possible existence of such a
material does not justify the
published opinion that the
chances are about even of strik-
ing petroleum and natural gas in
the area.
Many weird definitions of
terms used in the oil game have
appeared in the lay press, but
the public should be protected
against such statements as “a
monocline is one of the domal
formations necessary for the dis-
covery of oil.” On the credit
side, however, the promise to
sink the Kurrajong Heights well
to 9000 ft. or basement will be
welcomed by every geologist who
has attempted to solve the
problem of the frontal Blue
Mountains structure.
The interpretation of the Blue
Mountains “monocline” is a
difficult enough matter without
introducing into the meagre
underground data complexities
born of a fault-zone, and it
would have been so much better
if the well had been located in
less disturbed terrain where the
gas was not “oozing out of
ground.”
With all that, any well which
produces any kind of gas or oil
in payable quantities will be a
welcome addition to the Aus-
tralian economy, and every critic
will wish the venture the best of
luck, although he will be justified
in pointing out that faulted
ground at Roma (Q.), for
example, has been the cause of
many disappointments.
Copper Shortage
Present Australian demand
for copper is estimated to ex-
ceed an annual rate of 60,000
tons. Consumption of copper
and copper - alloy products,
according to an estimate of the
Division of Industrial Develop-
ment (Canberra), may have
reached an annual rate of about
75,000 tons a year.
Against this the Common-
wealth is producing about
32,500 tons of electrolytic
copper a year. Overall, supplies
of Australian-refined and re-
imported copper should amount
to over 40,000 tons in 1954-55.
The industry, now better
equipped, is producing electro-
lytic at a rate about 15 p.c. up
on the figure of March this
year, though production at Mt.
Lyell (Tas.) is a fraction lower
than it was a year ago. It has
no reserves of concentrates.
Production at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) has also suffered from
a shortage of concentrates since
mining af Lake George closed
down. An industrial dispute at
Port Kembla caused a loss of
about 3000 tons of refined
copper during July and August.
Mt. Isa (Q.) supplies blister
copper to the Electrolytic Refin-
ing and Smelting Corp. at Port
Kembla, and the excess is
exported to the United States.
About 85 p.c. of the copper
exported for refining is returned
to Australia —around 4900 tons
during 1954, it is estimated.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOIH £
niTO
VMM
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
d
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ď
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABKERE
1 No Pads —
f No Springs
The NEO-BAERERB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARBIBB DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3e), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Missing Friend
WOULD SYLVIA EVANS, formerly of
Billabong, via Mildura, or anyone know-
ing her whereabouts, communicate with
MOLOMBY & MOLOMBY, Solicitors, of 99
Queen Street, Melbourne?
F*uUi in the
Future
m
What was there in the world of more than half
a century ago that put such a gracious stamp on
those who were then in their younger years?
The men and women who are around us in
age today have derived something special out of
living. We see it so closely in the countenance and
bearing of elderly folk we know.
For many of them life was not easy. They
knew hard times. But through it all there must
have been a rich compensating factor that made it
well worthwhile.
They may ponder now upon the flight of Time,
and say to themselves: “If I could live those years
once more ” And most of them, like Adam
Lindsay Gordon’s famous “Stockrider,” might
wish to live the same life over if they had to live
again.
It seems to me that this contentment with “the
average of experience” is one of the great levellers
in human existence.
Each is trying to make the best of his life,
according to his opportunities and beliefs. When
we understand that simple but important fact, we
begin to be tolerant; to know the meaning of
Charity, Sympathy and Love.
I believe that most old people do understand
it, and that it accounts for their gracious acceptance
of life as it is. As the years gather the under-
standing widens.
But I see an even more powerful message to
be drawn from the character of those who have
marched a generation or two ahead of us.
The present and the near-future are going to
be added to our own past in a few, short, human
years.
They will be years filled with comfortable aids
and brightened by scientific wonders that our
parents in their younger times were not to know.
They are years that will bring, both on a world
scale and in our national sphere, opportunities
never before conferred on a civilised people.
And they will be years well harnessed to the
great Australian effort, if we bring to all of our
current tasks the Faith and Courage that our old
people possessed.
//
7
london Airmail
From Herbert Holman
■pVERYTHING grows bigger
in these record - breaking
times. The cost of Christmas is
no exception. The London shops
have been inviting and well
stocked. For the first time since
before the war, food has been
plentiful and off the ration. The
nation is riding on a crest of
prosperity. And the overhanging
threat of war is mute and
quiescent.
Essentially a People’s Christ-
mas, for the simple and obvious
reason that those in command
of ready money have been
unstinting; In a strong sense, it
has been the Christmas of the
wage - earner. High wages,
stimulated by an abundance of
jobs, justify the family feast,
and overtime, voluntary and
thankful, pays for the delicious
extras.
The Cratchetts, one might
say, are now well-to-do, while
Ebenezer Scrooge is not. Not
only is he mean but he is also
too impossibly old-fashioned to
keep his staff. Taxation has
eaten into his wealth and he is
sick, or dead, from worry. Bob
is much happier for having given
the old man a piece of his
mind, and likes his new job in
electronics, where soon he will
be promoted to accountant,
with a fat salary and an
expenses-allowance. He wishes
that Tiny Tim was at home all
the time, but it’s for the best
that T.T. completes his educa-
tion, and treatment for his dis-
ability, at the State school for
handicapped children. And
Mrs. Cratchett does very nicely
as a saleslady in a multiple shoe-
shop.
Altogether, a Christmas of
free and lavish spending. The
best yet, especially to those who
remember the times before the
Social Revolution which has
given them so much money to
spend. i
Topical Tremors
That old bogey, inflation, has
set the City in a mild flutter
following a cautionary warning
by Mr. Roy Harrod, the econo-
mist, in the “Financial Times.”
Because of signs of incipient
inflation in the shape of an
upward movement of general
prices, a growing number of
empty jobs and a hold-up of
steel-deliveries, Mr. Harrod
advocates a chastening dose of
prophylactic, a shot in the arm
that might well be worth the
pain of the needle-prick.
He feels that the bank-rate,
hitherto trending downwards,
might be raised as a good
psychological move, and that
bank-credits might be tightened.
The reaction, an immediate
weakening of gilt-edged securi-
ties which was soon to affect
equities, shows how sensitive
the money-market has become.
It may well be that the boom
in industrial shares is now slow-
ing down and that the rise in
industrial earnings is coming to
a peak. This does not mean
either an impending crash or
even that share-values will not
continue to appreciate. The
worst symptoms of inflation
happily are absent.
Mr. Harrod’s warning springs,
no doubt, from the carefree dis-
position of the Welfare State,
which must also be mildly infla-
tionary, and this tendency has
been encouraged by the removal
of hire-purchase restrictions, the
long-term effect of the increases
in pensions and the financial
consequences of some of the pro-
grammes in the Queen’s Speech.
Many people feel that a
general-election soon would
release the Government from
the temptation (impossible to
resist) of a too-bounteous
indulgence to popular appeal.
The Queen’s Speech does,
indeed, affirm that the Govern-
ment “will be vigilant in pre-
serving the soundness of the
public finances, the control of
expenditure and the curb on
inflation,” but does not qualify
this good intention.
There are a number of
reforms to be carried out, not-
ably on road - construction,
house-building, slum-clearance
and the improvement of school-
accommodation. Some are long
overdue and all will cost money.
These are in addition to the
substantial increases in pensions,
which, with the future outlook
of more and more old people to
be supported by the working
population, constitute a strain on
the economy of such severity
that it is quite beyond finite
assessment.
So, with the further tempta-
tion of presenting a kind-
hearted Budget next April, it is
felt that political expediency
might well act as an insidious
brake upon the Government’s
success. A general-election in
February, say, would put them
on their mettle again.
Multitudinous Bliss
The first full-length play to
guy television is an uproarious
success. Alan Melville, the
revue-writer and versifier, has
tended in the past to be alto-
gether too much of a man-of-
the-theatre, serving-up slick
theatrical gossip as if all the
people in his audiences were
regular patrons of the Ivy
Restaurant. In “Simon and
Laura” (Strand Theatre) he is
on more common ground for
his preoccupation with the
esoteric oddities of the back-
stage world. He has also toned-
down the acid pungency of his
wit, with the joyous result that
the first two acts are a continu-
ous roar, silly as a prank and
lively as a guffaw.
Simon (Roland Culver) is a
slightly passe actor, vain,
opinionated, childish and
cantankerous. His wife, Laura
(Coral Browne), is good-looking,
curdled-sweet and quick of
temper. As stage-partners they
are well known but workless.
Their private life is as tem-
pestuous as their daily rows.
After one of these —an
especially bitter one —they are
asked to become television’s
Perfect Couple in a nightly
serial, and, for financial reasons,
have to consent. The second
act is given over to the 200th
performance and a climax, not
of the deepened felicity
intended, but of explosive
jealousy, mutual rancor and an
unrehearsed and unscripted
scene before the cameras.
Mr. Melville exploits this
theatre-proof situation with con-
summate skill, backed by his
thorough knowledge of both
mediums. The conflict between
the hard-faced, disillusioned
“pros” and the gauche, un-
worldly 8.8. C, producer (lan
Carmichael) accounts for the
best of the comedy. And, since
the dialogue sometimes creaks
with artificiality and misfiring
epigrams, the sterling character
of the producer in the later
emotional crises gives dramatic
stiffening to the play. But the
mushy banality of the television-
script is ripe contemporary
satire.
It is not a comedy for
repertory or for amateurs. The
difficulties of production,
characterisation and timing can
only be overcome, as here, by
long experience of show-busi-
ness. Melbourne actress Miss
Browne, for example, owes most
to Shaftesbury-avenue for her
brilliant, glossy performance.
Ernest Thesiger is fulsome, if
rather wasted, as a conventional
butler, and Dora Bryan, sophis-
ticated in dress if not in mien,
makes a twinkling script-writer.
The author bravely copes with
a third act when, but for reasons
of time and expedience, an
epilogue would have sufficed.
Verse in Parliament
GONE are the days—at least
in Australia —when Parlia-
mentary speeches were regularly
lightened by graceful Latin tags.
The Prime Minister is known to
relieve occasional boredom in
the House by the composition of
some topical verse (in Aus-
tralian), and some of these
unpublished comments on men
and events are cherished by a
few of his colleagues. But in
general there is little poetry,
and less wit, in debates of all
seven Australian Parliaments.
Things are done differently in
some other parts. The Canberra
division of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers lately heard
an address on Indian literature,
in which it was stated that
present Indian Finance Minister
C. D. Deshmukh is often found
replying to tricky questions in
Parliament in his flowing and
graceful Sanskrit verse. Recently
he received a protest in Sanskrit
verse against his policy of taxing
the betelnut, sole luxury of the
poorest of the poor in India. In
Parliament he read out the
protest, then gave his reply in
the same medium.
The speaker, Mrs. Ratnam,
wife of the First Secretary of the
Indian High Commissioner’s
office, revealed also that the
Bharata Bharati (or Voice of
India) of Maithilisharan Gupta
has not only brought him the
title of the national poet of
modern India, but also a seat in
Parliament. “Today in free
India,” she said, “he sits in the
Upper House of the Parliament
as our cultural representative.”
Who would be likely to occupy
such a post in the Senate at Can-
berra if some Government began
to pay attention to things of the
spirit?
“Our love and regard for
Sanskrit are so great,” said Mrs.
Ratnam, “that even today it is
a ‘must’ for all writers, scholars
and literary figures in India.
Politicians and statesmen also
learn it for added refinement and
culture.”
It seems to have a moral some-
where for Australian politicians.
But one more quotation from
the address seems pertinent.
“In 1920,” said Mrs. Ratnam,
“Mahatma Gandhi launched his
nationalist movement aiming to
shake off foreign rule by means
of truth force —Satyagraha—and
non - violent resistance. The
country was filled with a large
volume of nationalist and
patriotic literature. Main topics
were the praise of the mother-
land, revival of national pride,
happy and inspiring recollections
of our glorious past, hero-
worship, a feeling of national
unity, the willingness for
struggle, and hatred of the
foreigner.
“On the constructive side were
topics like Swadeshi popularisa-
tion of home-made goods,
boycott of foreign goods, the
doctrine of the charkha or the
spinning-wheel, Hindu-Muslim
unity, removal of untouchability,
and the fostering of the national
language.”
Perhaps on the whole it may
be better for our Parliamen-
tarians to remain uncultured.
CHARLES MEEKING.


1 gpwjfef
'B
•M-°r
79)
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
yOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
■pROSPECTS for ord. shareholders in
A this big and enterprising organisation
depend largely upon (1) the co.’s future
as an importer and distributor of pet-
roleum and petroleum products, a highly
competitive field in which it is now well-
established, and (2) the still speculative
possibility that West Australian Pet-
roleum Pty. will strike crude oil in com-
mercial quantities in Westralia, The
proprietary is a prospecting concern in
which California Texas Corp. (U.S.)
owns 80 p.c. of the capital and Ampol
Exploration, Ltd., the other 20 p.c.
Ampol Petroleum holds 70 p.c. of Explor-
ation’s capital, thus giving it a 14 p.c.
share-interest in the oil-prospecting co.
Discovery of oil at 3600 ft. in Rough
Range No. 1 well cannot alone be re-
garded as establishing commercial pro-
duction. It does, however, provide strong
inducement to continue the hunt. And
the fact that another four test-holes in
this area have been dry ones does not
preclude the possibility of further oil dis-
coveries in the locality, where No. 6 well
is now being drilled. At Cape Range,
about 35 miles west of Rough Range,
encouraging signs of oil and gas were
met with in the first hole, and the struc-
ture is to be test-drilled further up.
Wapet has three rigs operating in, the
Exmouth Gulf area, and a fourth began
work at No. 1 location at Grant Range,
some 80 miles east of Derby, on October
31 last. The co.’s total expenditure to
the beginning of Dec., 1954, was approxi-
mately £5,000,000, and it proposes to
spend a further £4,000,000 in test-drilling,
etc., during 1955.
If Wapet succeeds in discovering a
major oil-field, Ampol Petroleum stands
to benefit to the extent of a net maximum
of £3,500,000 from royalty payments on
production alone. That is apart from
any divs. which might be received on its
shareholding in Ampol Exploration (paid
capital £2,000,000), which figures in the
books at £135,779. These possibilities
have enhanced the market’s assessment
of the value of Ampol Petroleum’s scrip.
In the co.’s main field of activity—the
importing and merchandising of pet-
roleum, etc. —the story is one of rapid
and profitable expansion. To help finance
the growth 350,000 new £l6 p.c. prefs.
were issued at par and 2,800,000 new ss,
ords. were put out at a stiff premium of
10s. (200 p.c.) each in January, 1954.
The new money was used chiefly for fur-
ther extension of the co.’s own network
of service-stations, especially in Westralia,
where the parent began trading on its
own account during the last quarter of
the term; for erection of new seaboard-
terminals and other storage tanks, and
electric kerbside petrol-pumps; to meet
final payment on a new 18,0()0-ton oil-
tanker, delivered in March, 1954, at a
total cost of over £1,600,000; and to help
reduce the outside debt.
Turnover for the year (£12,447,790)
took a leap of £1,100,983, or 9.7 p.c.—
gallonage sales were up 17 p.c., which is
a measure of the co.’s success in the
growing war at the petrol-pump. After
allowing for depreciation (£368,317, up
£98,158), taxation (£261,659, up £28,657)
and contributions to the staff fund
(£36,000, down £1034), the board claimed
fw r ° fit i °i f 45 (up £88,987). But
included £127,279 received in settle-
ment of claims connected with chartering,
i<; bem L g non-recurring profit,
is interlined in the following table:
Ampol & Subsidiaries.
Sent Pmfif n 1 Dividends >, Nominal
P * Pro ® t - p ref. Ord. Total? Reserves.*
1949 . isi 88! P ‘« P 'o £ £
■■ mss
nv'ol^J 90 '5 9 i 6 8 1 104,995 583,284
195i°v e rprovided taxes. £2O 187 .. 603,471
6 9 i 149,465 706,883
Sundry additions, £97.221 . . gO4 107
1952 Shi Kr 8 ' £215,G00.. .. 1.019.107
9 I' ’ 394 * 286 6 10 195.629 1,127.764
Issue exes., etc., written off,
£58,000 . * -I C\>7 A *7(IA
1953 5urD11 6 0’ 93 h r 6 , ’ 10 ' 128.86 i liS
charter claims, £127,279 1.330,841
1954 5 h £ll4ooloo ° •• 2.730.841
4 .. 328,638 6 12$ 346,177 2,713.305
•Subject to intangibles, £331,413.
The actual net return on ordinary trading
operations was £328,638 (down £38,292).
t was a satisfactory showing considering
the amount of money represented by
assets which made little or no contri-
bution to the pool, and the delayed lift
in the controlled selling-price of petrol,
fte. The £328,638 covered the pref. div.
(£53,000) and 11.7 p.c. on average ord.
capital, compared with 16.6, 16.7, 17.7,
16.7 and 20 p.c, back to 1949. However,
m view of the improved trading outlook
and charter payment, etc., the board lifted
the div. from 10 p.c. to 12\ p.c., which is
a shade over 4 p.c. on the last
£ 700,000 of ord. capital, because of the
premium at which the shares were issued.
For the same reason the p.c, is worth
only 6.4 p.c. on over two-thirds of total
ord. capital.
The year’s £2,463,327 of fresh share-
(£l >063,327) and share-premiums
(£1,400,000) was nearly all absorbed by
net additions to freeholds and storage-
terminals (up £1,400,009) and plant, etc.
(up £1,012,217), which includes the
new oil-tanker (in at £1,611,313, up
£504,441): ' y
D , 1952. 1953. 1954.
Raid capital .. £2,480,000 £2,672,273 £3,735,600
Reserves .. .. 1,127,764 1,203,565 2,713,305
Long-term loan .. 227,500 309,000 892,304
Creditors* ~ 1.947,445 2,757,381 2,895,561
Tax-provision .. 387.767 299,000 326,000
Final divs. ~ 100,650 109,777 166,731
£6,271,126 £7.350,996 £9,729,501
Freeholds, etc.f .. 672,230 1,208,375 2,608,384
Plant, etc. . . 2,043,152 2,833,705 3,845,922
Shares and advances,
Ampol Explora’n 80,000 81,510 , 135,779
Stocks .. . . 1,989,762 1,489,621 1,298,429
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,224,522 1,416,616 1,609,574
Ihtangibles ~ 261,460 321,169 331,413
£6.271,126 £7,350,996 £9,729,501
•Includes overdraft, t Includes storage
terminals.
A reduction of £191,192 in stocks, to-
gether with an extra £83,304 of loan
money and surplus earnings, etc., enabled
the board to clip £361,820 off the amount
coming to the bank and others and to
carry an additional £92,958 of book-
debts.
To help finance further all-round ex-
pansion, £1,500,000 of 6 p.c. unsecured
registered notes were issued since the
close of accounts. They are redeemable
Dec. 1, 1964, subject to the holder’s right
to convert into ss. ord. shares at a pre-
mium of 10s. each between Dec,, 1959,
and Dec., 1961.
At 225. 6d, the f.-p. ss. ords. give an
immediate return of only 2.8 p.c, on a
12i p.c. div. basis; a return of 5.5 p.c.
would call for a 25 p.c. distribution, or
other benefits. The prefs. at 20s. 6d.
yield 5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £6 Bs. lid. prefs. and 9s. lid.
ords.
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd.
'THE advent of television will open up
new sources of earnings for A.W.A.,
especially on the manufacturing or equip-
ment side, where heavy additional capital
outlay will be called for. Because of
this, and because of the co.’s technical
and financial achievements in the field
of sound-broadcasting and allied activi-
ties, the sharemarket, anticipating future
benefits, has lengthened its bid for the
f.-p. 10s. shares from 30s. 3d. to 40s. 6d.
over the last 12 months.
The immediate return at 40s. 6d. is
3.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution. The
investor who looks for approximately
5 p.c. on his money counts on a 20 p.c.
distribution, which was more than earned
last term, or, say, a one-for-one new
share-issue at par and maintenance of the
div. at 12£ p.c., which would then call
for £31,000-odd more profit than was
claimed for the year to June 30, 1954.
At 325. 9d. the 55.-paid contribs. —there
are 556,466 of them on which the remain-
ing 55., plus Is. 3d. share-premium, is to
be asked for by June 30, 1955—wi1l return
3.8 p.c. when fully paid. All scrip is then
to be split into ss. stock units. Including
uncalled capital, etc., net tangible cover is
245. per 10s. share.
To help finance growth of the under-
taking since 1946, when the telecommuni-
cation section was sold to the Govern-
ment at a handsome profit, those on the
register subscribed £568,882 of fresh
capital, plus £376,719 of share-premiums,
and received £125,205 (Is. 6d. per share)
of bonus-scrip, thus lifting issued capital
to £1,112,932 in 10s. shares.
Production falls into two broad classes
—capital goods and consumer goods. The
first includes broadcast-transmitters,
radar, vehicular-operated traffic-signals,
and marine- and aerial-navigation instru-
ments, etc., all of which are largely the
requirements of Government and other
operating bodies. Main lines of consumer
goods turned out are broadcast-receivers
and radiograms, new and improved
models of which are being constantly pro-
duced. In addition, the co. is interested
in eight subsidiary and associated under-
takings, operates eight broadcasting-
stations, provides technical services for
others, and holds a large number of
patents covering specific aspects of radio,
radar and television.
All-round improvement in production
and sales, etc., sent last term’s turnover
(£4,929,555) up by £668,233. After allow-
ing £108,290 (up £15,162) for depreciation
and unspecified amounts for taxation and
contingencies, the net result benefited by
£56,086;
t „ To Ke- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950.. 128,115 lljp.c. = 66,776 61,339 1,082.918
Share premiums, £166,939 .. 1,249,852
1951.. 149,938 11} p.c. * 73,036 76,902 1,326,754
1902. . 156,398 11} „ „ 83,470 71,928 1,398,682
Reserves capitalised, £125,205 ..1,278,477
Share premiums, £34,780 .. 1,308,257
1953. . 190,985 12} p.c. = 108,685 82,300 1,390,557
Profit sale assets, £25,025 .. ..1,415,582
1904.. 247,071 15 p.c. = 146,072 100,999 1,516,581
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811, and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £1,228,470).
The £247,071 of profit was 25.3 p.c. on
average capital as against 21.9, 21.9, 24.1,
22.5 and 21.6 p.c. back to 1949. So a
2f p.c. bonus was added to the 12} p.c.
div., making 15 p.c. for the year. Aver-
age distribution over the last seven years
was 12.4 p.c. The chairman says the
bonus is not necessarily recurring, but
the board “will distribute such amounts
as are available and which will not unduly
disturb the co.’s financial requirements,”
Continued expansion and further im-
provement of the liquid position were
features of balance-sheet figures:
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £709,494 £973,815 £973,815
Reserves .. .. 1,484,495 1,476,370 1,602,394
Depreciation reserve 1,045,584 1,126,116 1,228,470
Sundry creditors, etc. 1,513,194 1,328,126 1,272,042
Final div 48,691 66,950 97,882
£4,801,458 £4,971,377 £5,174,103
Freeholds, etc.* .. 571,468 574,741 534,106
Plant, etc.* . . 1,022,572 1,161,182 1,313,349
Shares in other cos. 277,373 288,400 288,400
Stocks ~ .. 2,062,950 1,847,729 1,866,529
Book debts .. 756,139 982,209 1,021,008
Cash, etc 25,145 31,305 64,900
Intangibles .. 85,811 85,811 85,811
£4,801,458 £4,971,377 £5,174,103
*At cost, subject to specific reserves (now
£1,228,470).
The year’s net addition to plant, etc.,
was £152,167, to stocks £lB,BOO and to
book-debts £38,799. The amount coming
to outsiders (including provision for taxa-
tion, etc.) was reduced by £56,084. The
net reduction of £40,635 in properties is
mainly the difference between sale of
redundant city freeholds and cost of new
broadcasting premises at Townsville and
Warwick. The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£1,583,013) was
£116,846.
Although the Government has decided
to go ahead with television in Sydney
and Melbourne, it is likely to be a couple
of years before the stations are operating.
Meanwhile, the co. will step up manufac-
ture of the required transmitting and
receiving equipment, which means that
a lot of money will be tied up in assets
making little or no contribution to the
pool.
On the operating side the co. is one of
a group which has applied for one of the
two television licences to be granted in
the Sydney area. Others in the group
are John Fairfax and Sons, Associated
Newspapers, Macquarie Broadcasting Net-
work, and radio-stations 2UE, 2GB and
2UW.
No hint is given as to what capital
outlay is likely to be involved in all this.
Canadian experience is that the cost to
televisor and televiewer alike is between
five and ten times that of sound broad-
casting. At the moment commercial TV
broadcasting is an untried route to hypo-
thetical profits.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
nrHE outlook for the big international
-*■ fire, marine and accident underwriters
isn’t quite as rosy as it was a year ago.
So the market shortened its bid for this
Queensland co.’s f.-p. £1 shares from 695.
at the beginning to 61s. 3d. at the end of
1954. The immediate return at 61s. 3d.
is 4.1 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 5.2 p.c. on his
money counts on a 16 p.c. distribution,
which would be more than covered by
last term’s net return from investments
(£250,321) alone.
At Sept. 30 last reserves totalled
£4,159,081 (£2,050,000 of it was ear-
marked for unexpired risks), and paid
capital £1,500,000, which had been
doubled by a par issue early in 1951.
It was the first time shareholders had
been asked to contribute for over 40
years, paid capital having advanced from
£75,000 in 1910 to £750,000 in 1934 by
capitalisation of reserves. And a long
run of 10 p.c. divs. to 1948 was followed
by a steady 12£ p.c. for the six years to
the close of last accounts.
The improvement of £47,268 in last
term’s profit came wholly from returns
from investments. The underwriting
surplus, of which more will be said
presently, was lighter:
To Be- Ke-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 226,501 125 p.c. = 93,750 132,751 2,624,546
To reserve unexpired risks, £250,000.. 2,874,546
1951.. 250,662 125 p.c. =105,469 145,193 3,019,739
To staff fund. £15,000 .. .. 3,004,739
To reserve unexpired risks, £326,000.. 3,329,739
1952.. 285,215 125 p.c. =140,625 144,590 3,474,329
To staff fund. £15.000 .. .. 8.459,329
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 3,684,329
1953.. 323,664 125 p.c, =152.344 171,320 3,855,649
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,840,649
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 3,990,649
1954.. 370,932 125 p.c. =187,500 183,432 4,174.081
To staff fund, £15,000 4,159,081
The £370,932 of profit claimed was
24.7 p.c. on capital as against 21.5, 25.3
and 22.2 p.c, for the three preceding
years. More pleasing is the fact that the
net return from investments (£250,321,
up £61,410) was equal to 16.7 p.c. on
capital. It exceeded the 12£ p.c. dividend
charge by £92,821, which, together with
the whole of the net underwriting surplus
(£120,611, down £14,142), was available
to swell investments and the returns
therefrom.
The greater part of the co.’s revenue
and profit is earned in Australia and New
Zealand. Excepting London, where a


Insurance Supervision
BA WIRINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3416. BU 3446, BU 1409.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
H
Consult us for.
all your
Travelling Requisites
G. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
ď
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
TRICES ON
APPLICATION
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced Imported
machines at only a trac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BuiU .»«>«/» <" Austmba By
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co, (Amu)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Divorce Notice
TO YALEN NINNIS Address Unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife HAZEL.
MAY NINNIS has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of desertion If you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must within
forty clear days after the date of this
publication file in the Central o™ c ®
Supreme Court at Perth a statement of
your defence In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court w 5
pronounce judgment and make ordeis
against you. DATED the 17th day of
December, 1954. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. M. J. CERLOFF. 18 Howard
Street, Perth, W.A., Solicitor for the
Plaintiff.
T. & G. Mutual Life Society
OUTSTANDING PROGRESS
Assurances in Force exceed £300,000,000
At the 78th Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 22nd December, at the Society’s
Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. A. R. Stewart, said;—
“Since the last Directors’ Report it has been our
great misfortune to lose Mr. J. T. Thompson, the
Chairman and Managing Director, who died on 19th
November, 1954. Mr. Thompson gave a lifetime of
service to our Society, starting as an Agent and
occupying various increasingly important Field Stan:
positions before he was appointed Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Society’s Board. Mr.
Thompson always gave himself wholeheartedly to the
work at hand with an honesty and singleness of
purpose that could not be surpassed. He was able
not only to achieve results by himself but also to
inspire others by his extraordinary powers of leader-
ship. His ability, Integrity and sense of justice were
indeed outstanding. All who came into contact with
him realised that he was a real leader in whom
one could place absolute trust. The outstanding
position of your Society is the evidence of Mr.
Thompson’s life work. He has created a great tra-
dition which we shall endeavour to uphold.
I have had the honour of being elected Chairman
of the Board, and Mr. H. G. Brain has been elected
Deputy Chairman. I am happy to say that the Board
has an able successor to Mr. Thompson in Mr. S. W.
Coates, who has been appointed Managing Director.
Mr. Coates has served the Society with distinction
in many important positions, and, as Inspector of
branches, worked in close association with the late
Mr. Thompson for several years. We offer our best
wishes to Mr. Coates for success in his appointment.
New Business
The main features of the Directors’ Report point
clearly to continued healthy progress. New Business
completed in the Life Departments comprised 112,659
policies assuring £42,585,459, a record for the Society,
exceeding the previous year’s aggregate by £2,662,661.
In the Accident Department 13,742 policies were
issued, and Accident Benefits assuring £15,942,675
were added to 37,189 life policies. The whole of the
New Business was obtained in Australia and New
Zealand.
Business entrusted to the Society under Super-
annuation and Group Schemes has again been a record,
illustrating the very high regard in which the
Society is held by employers. One of the major
features in this type of business is the service
rendered to employers and employees by the Society s
expert staff.
During the last year the subjects of Long Service
Leave and Superannuation Benefits have received con-
siderable publicity, and there has, understandably,
been some confusion in discussion of these matters.
Although other benefits may for a time assume
special significance, adequate superannuation for em-
ployees on retirement and protection of their de-
pendants must continue to be paramount considera-
tions. Our Society is well equipped to provide a
satisfactory plan in every case. We have the expert
staff we have the experience and we have the finan-
cial stability that is a necessary foundation to a Staff
Scheme that will be permanently satisfactory.
Income and Payments to Policyholders
Income of £17,355,098 showed a record increase of
E 1,384.622 over the total for the previous year.
E6,706i>26 was paid to policyholders, more than
E 4,300,000 representing payments on matured con-
tracts. Expenses incurred have again shown a slight
reduction. In the Ordinary Department the ratio of
total expenses (including all taxes and contributions
to Staff Superannuation) to total income has been
reduced from 15.76% to 15.24%. In the Industrial
Department the reduction was from 31.88% to 30.91/o.
These reductions are gratifying, but we_are taking
steps to improve still further the efficiency of our
service to policyholders and to achieve further eco-
nomy in administration.
The premium income of the Accident Department
increased by £44,142 to £444,484. Progress has been
very pleasing, premium income having doubled in
the last six years. An attractive range of Personal
Accident and Sickness tables is available at com-
petitive rates of premium, and the introduction of
many policyholders to the Life Department has been
due to interest aroused by effecting Personal Accident
and Sickness policies.
Assurance Funds
The Funds, which increased by nearly £7,000,000
to over £93,000,000, are held by the Society on behalt
of policyholders to meet future payments under con-
tracts now in force. A matter of primary importance
Is to see that the funds are invested in such a way
as to provide security and stability. In making
investments your Board has always a realisa-
tion of its responsibility to see that the interests
of eventual beneficiaries are properly protected.
At the close of the year the amount invested in
Government and Public Body securities in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand was over £66,000,000 and
represented 69% of the total assets. Loans on mort-
gage, which now amount to over £17,000,000, include
loans to enabie policyholders to buy their own
homes. The attractive conditions of the Society s
Home Purchase Scheme make provision for a life
assurance benefit to pay off the balance of the Mort-
gage upon the untimely death of the breadwinner.
The rate of interest on new investments and on the
replacement of maturing investments had the effect
of increasing the rate on the Mean Assurance Funds
by 3/6d.% to £3/19/3%.
Actuaries* Report
After valuing the Society’s liabilities on the same
basis as last year the surplus was £1,900,684. The
Actuaries recommend reserving £45,000 against
actuarial contingencies and allocating £1,785,556 for
reversionary bonuses. The allotments provide for in-
creases in bonus scales in the Ordinary Department
and for a continuance of present scales in the Indus-
trial Department. The Actuaries also report satis-
factorily on Accident Department funds and recom-
mend certain Increases in benefits during 1955.
Progress Under Mutual System
The results achieved clearly demonstrate the
healthy growth in the Society’s operations. We are
proud that we can offer to the assuring public
benefits which coyer the major economic hazards
of our time. In keeping with the true democratic
ideals of the countries in which we operate, the
benefits offered can be arranged to suit the needs
of the individual. Our Society is conducted on the
mutual principle under which all surplus earned is
available for the benefit of policyholders. In expand-
ing we extend the benefits of life assurance to more
people and are also able to invest larger sums
of policyholders’ funds in works of national import-
ance, thus contributing to the betterment of the
people as a whole.
Staff
Our Secretary and Investment Manager, Mr. E. F.
Hamley, and one of our Joint Actuaries, Mr. A. C.
Bradbury, F.1.A., have made application for retire-
ment at the end of this year. The Directors have
accepted their applications with real regret at the
termination of long years of devoted and loyal
service. The Society has appointed, as from Ist
January, 1955, Mr. J. S. McCann, B.Sc., to be Secre-
tary and Investment Manager, and Mr. W. J.
Falconer, F.F.A., to be the Actuary.
The continued progress of the Society has been
due to the very fine spirit that exists in our staffs.
The results achieved by the Field Staff are evident
from New Business figures, and successful internal
management can be attributed largely to the faithful
service rendered by the Indoor Staff. On behalf of
the Board I tender thanks for their loyal service to
policyholders.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. A. R. Stewart and
H W Buckley, and retiring Auditors, Messrs.
J.' M. F. Relph and W. M. Scott, were re-elected.
large and profitable treaty and
marine business is done, the
board says it cannot emphasise
too strongly the difficulties
associated with operations in
other countries. In South Africa
the co. and two other Australian
underwriting concerns have
agreed to operate jointly, the
aim being to reduce excessive
competition, eliminate rate-
cutting, stabilise expenses and so
curb development costs. In
India, Pakistan, Malaya and
Egypt unsettled political and
economic conditions affected
results. Canada, Indonesia, New
Guinea and the Pacific Islands
produced pleasing figures, the
chairman says.
Overall, however, the year’s
net premium income advanced
by £78,969:
Net
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.*
£ £ £
1949 .. 1,705,881 829,824 691,039
1950 .. 1,865,334 895,130 763,620
1951 .. 2,469,470 1,124,171 993,429
1952 .. 3,029,330 1,455,242 1,123,942
1958 .. 3,040,480 1,495,828 1,184,899
1954 .. 3,119,449 1,651,667 1,197,171
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from
investments, but includes contributions to
staff fund.
The expense-rate (38.4 p.c.) was
reduced by 12s. p.c. But losses
gobbled an extra £3 14s. at
52.9 p.c. of each £lOO of net
premiums, due mainly to heavy
claims following the earthquake
in South Australia and to
unfavorable experiences in con-
nection with third-party risks and
some overseas businesses.
A contraction of £89,142 in
the gross underwriting surplus
(£270,611) was largely offset by
a reduction of £75,000 in the
amount (£150,000) sent to the
reserve for unexpired risks,
making it £2,050,000, equal to
65.4 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 40 p.c. is
usually considered adequate.
The net underwriting surplus was
thus only £14,142 lighter at
£120,611. Although underwrit-
ing runs into bad patches at
times, over the long-run the
theory of averages has worked
well.
The strong protection for both
policyholders and shareholders is
in the following form;
1953 , 1954 v
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Govt.
securities 3,429,423 39.8 3,791.686 41.2
Cash, etc. 684,509 8.0 586,409 6.4
Shares, etc. 1,894,032 16.2 1,685,125 18.3
Mortgages. 951,861 11.1 953,281 10.4
Book debts 989,366 11.5 1,006,112 10.9
Freeholds . 1,154,101 13.4 1,176,856 12.8
Total
assets .. 8,608,292 100.0 9,199,469 100.0
Liabilities* 8,263,102 3,540,387
Net
assets £5,340,190 £5,659,082
* Includes unstated provision for con-
tingencies.
The year’s net additions of
£362,263 to Government
securities and £291,093 to share-
holdings augur well for further
improvement in the net return
from investments.
Peninsula Tin, N.L.
THE co.’s dredge at Langsuan,
Thailand, handled more
slightly-richer ground at substan-
tially reduced cost for the year
to April 30, 1954. So, despite a
sharp fall in the price of tin,
there was a marked recovery in
profit, which had almost disap-
peared in the previous term, as
the following comparison of
operating results shows:
Year to April 30,
1953. 1954.
Treated, c.y. .. 882,400 1,092,000
Recovery, t. 0., tons 244.4 388.4
Yield, c.y., lb. . . .62 .80
Costs, c.y., pence 37.75 26.17
Profit, £ .. .. 392 30,292
The tin ore assayed 73.07 p.c.
Output of metallic tin was thus
283.8 tons (up 104 tons). Average
price realised was £587.7 (down
£285.9) per ton metallic, and
costs, excluding depreciation,
were £440.1, leaving a profit of
£147.6 per ton. Running-time
and throughput increased as the
quantity and quality of firewood
improved. These were the chief
factors in the big reduction in
yardage costs. Adequate stocks
of firewood are now stacked at
the mine.
The £30,292 (up £29,900) of
profit was 15.2 p.c. on the
£199,387 of capital as against
0.2 p.c. and 32.8 p.c. for the
two preceding years. A div. of
Is. per 15s. share (6.6 p.c.) took
£13,293, and another Is. a share
was sent out in July, 1954.
There is about 18,000,000
c.y. of pay-ground ahead
of the dredge. The average
London spot-price of tin
for 1953 was £5730.7 per
ton, and for the eleven months
to end November, 1954, £5720.2.
On December 18 the figure was
£S7IO. Under the international
tin agreement, yet to be ratified,
hopes are that price-fluctua-
tions will be kept within the
£S6SO-£SBOO bracket. On the
basis of last term’s throughput
and costs, this should be quite
profitable for Peninsula, allow-
ing for the difference between
London and Singapore prices.
When the books closed stores
figured at £73,131, and debtors,
ore on hand and cash, etc.,
totalled £74,516. There was
£19,870 coming to sundry
creditors, etc. Property stood at
£84,220, dredge £65,816 and
other plant £66,833.
The market prices the f.-p. 15s.
shares at 10s. each, thus valuing
the undertaking at £131,925.
N ort h Kalgurli (1912), Ltd.
Headmmrters is in London
. the q mine on the K algoorlie
dt (WA) continues
DWelXent
s mnninfahead of production
and fnllow.mr comnletion of the
a " d ’ shaft Slft bv TftT which
" r^ice f £ 7 downward and
Arnhem continuafion' of ore-
southern continuation ot ore
caniS Jffiv
? a f ltal ™ o t e f o r one bonus
hfdng the figure to
Occwlc 18
£220 ’ 000 m 2s - sbares -
During 1953 the co. treated
283,967 tons (up 15,802 tons)
ore > head-value 5.28dwt., for a
P robt °f £59,916 (up £14,437),
ec l ua l to 27.2 p.c. on capital.
Although the rate of div. was
cut i n half, reducing it to 24.8
(aftgr deducting English tax
of 9s - in the £ )> Jt called for the
same amount ( £ 52,937) as m the
previous year.
For the 44 weeks to November
2, 1954, the mill treated 213,176
tons Ore for 48,2290 Z. fine gold,
a n average of 4.5dwt., and an
; f d j v 71 d chare
interim UIV. OI / 2 U. per snare
(subject to tax) Was Sent OUt at
the end of October.
At the end of 1953 ore reserves
were conservatively mit at
W65.193™T30,778 tonst
averaging 5 sdwt of which
1,718,169 tons was positive and
547,124 tons probable. At the
current rate of extraction there
is thus about eight years’ work
ahead of the mill. Four years
a § 0 ’ however > the chairman said
a life-expectation for the mine
of a further 20 years was not
unduly optimistic.
When the book f J ast closed
current assets ’ stores
( £61 > 143 )> totalled £206,375 and
current liabilities £160,756.
° n Australian market the
. 2s _ shares fetch 11s., or
thereabouts, as against a low of
Bs ‘ 4d ’ in 1951
urn en Mine NL
Hill 50 Gold Mine, N.L-
One of the most spectacular
developments m goldmimng m
Westraha during 1954 has been
the enrichment fit depth of Hill
50 at Mt. Magnet. In addition
to the very rich ore concen-
trated near the main shaft at
bQth 820 ft and 106 0 ft.
levels, unexpectedly good de-
velopments have occurred in the
northern slopes between the
820 ft. and 600 ft. levels, where
previously it had been thought
that no ore of a grade good
enough to warrant treatment
existed
exisieu. nrnrV
Although insufficient work
has been done to determine the
extent of the ore-body at the
1060 ft. level, sft. of ore assay-
tag 62.8dwt.’ over a width o£
60in. was recently disclosed
here And some stuff
has been met with in cross-cut
on the 940 ft. level. The de-
dared policy of the board, how-
ever, is to treat all payable ore,
which means that ore from these
exceptionally rich patches will
be used to sweeten * he larg ~
tonnage of 4dwt. to sdwt. stuff
whlch ex * sts elsewh< l re m A the f
mine. The recovered grade of
ore treated since July last has
remained fairly constant around
14dwt„ and there is no reason
at present to anticipate any
substantial variation, the chair-
man says ‘ ,
, A quarterly div. of Is. 3d. per
ls - share ’ P a Y able February 16,
has been decdaredj making
to tal payments since June 30,
1954> 3s 9d per share For the
year to June 30 last dividends
totalling the equivalent of
2s. 4|d. per Is. share were paid
_ the old 4s shares were split
j nto j units in September, 1953.
Xhe market pr f ces t he scrip
at 545 . 6d. as against 38s. a
year aga


Womew’S LetterS
MELBOURNE
To all the readers of this Letter a
peaceful, prosperous and happy New
Year.
A feature of Christmas in Melbourne
has been the many Christmas-trees,
beautifully decorated, that have graced
not only many homes but the city’s
streets. The tall tree outside the Inde-
pendent Church in Collins-street
attracted great attention j under it was
a large basket in which toys and money
were deposited, later to be given to homes’
children. Christopher Byrne, grandson
of the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks, was the first to bring a toy
to the tree.
There were other trees in the city, but
for sheer beauty the one in the garden
of Chevron was unsurpassed. Tall and
stately, it had been frosted to look as
though laden with snow. It was trimmed
with bright lights, and right at the top
glowed a large star, symbolic of peace
and goodwill.
It has been a gay Christmas ; children
have thronged the stores, and Father
Christmas worked overtime, making
promises to be honored on Christmas
morning.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Molly Herring, second daughter of
the Chief Justice of Victoria, Sir Edmund
Herring, and Lady Herring, of South
Yarra, was married at the Toorak Pres-
byterian Church to Donald Longfield in
Christmas week. The Governor and Lady
Brooks were among the guests.
The bride wore a classical gown of
satin. The V-neckline of the
long-sleeved bodice had a tiny collar, and
the full skirt fell into a train. A narrow
bandeau of satin held the family-heirloom
cream Limerick-lace veil, which had
sprigs of orange-blossom at each side.
The bouquet was of cream gardenias.
In attendance were the bride’s sisters,
Mrs. Nicholas Turnbull and Margaret
Herring, and the groom’s sister, Heather
Longfield. Their bouffant frocks of
hyacinth-blue nylon-marquisette had fit-
ting folded bodices, and they also wore
tiny boleros of the same material and
matching egg-shell caps, and carried
sheaves of deep-cream gladioli. The
bridegroom is the only son of Mrs. H. M.
Lowe, of Barwon Heads, and the late Mr.
Claude M. Longfield. Millar Lowe was
best man, and John Rouse and Colonel
Gordon Oldham groomsmen.
Reception was at Dynevor, St. Kilda,
where all-white flowers, including hydran-
geas, lilies, carnations and daisies, were
arranged. Lady Brooks chose a short-
sleeved frock of orchid-pink silk, pat-
terned with sprays of lily-of-the-valley ;
her matching-pink cloche had pink posies
set at each side. Mrs. M. Turner-Laing
(Lady Brooks’s mother) and Mrs. Robin
Byrne were also in the vice-regal party.
Lady Herring’s coat-frock of powder-blue
silk was contrasted with a close-fitting
cloche of deep-red rough-straw finished
at one side with flowers. Mrs. Lowe’s
choice was a pale-pink brocade with a
rose design; her petal-cap was in shades
of grey and pink and was finished with
grey veiling.
☆ ☆ ☆
A fountain set in a miniature garden
banked high with blue and pink
hydrangeas and numerous small shrubs,
beautifully decorated Christmas-trees
with flashing colored lights, a reindeer,
several Father Christmases, and large
clusters of balloons drew the admira-
tion of the 300 guests who attended the
party in the Lower Town Hall given by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
Cr. and Mrs. F. P. Selleck. A sequin-
encrusted gown of blue-grey organza
and a tulle stole were worn by Mrs.
Selleck, who was assisted by her daughter,
Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, whose gown was
of white organza with the strapless
bodice and bouffant skirt trimmed with
bands of white guipure lace.
Guests included city-councillors and
their wives (in many cases accompanied
by their sons and daughters) and heads
of council departments. Mrs. P. L. Cole-
man chose a gown of pale-grey silk-tulle
starred with black jet on the full skirt
and strapless top. Mrs. Douglas Cox
was attractive in white French faille.
Mrs. George Hume was with her
daughter, Mrs. Max Mitchell, who
teamed a white guipure-lace blouse, red
cummerbund and a black skirt. Mrs.
Fred Hardy’s gown was of rose-pink
crepe. Mrs. Alex Finlay highlighted her
white gown with emerald-green satin
drapmgs ; her daughter Virginia was in
bouffant white tulle, as was Margot
Evans. Mary Evans wore soft-pink
silver-embroidered chiffons, her mother’
Mrs. Bernard Evans, a full-skirted gown
of sea-green silk-organza over pink
taffeta.
Anne, elder daughter of Chief of Air
Staff Air-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley, and
Mrs. McCauley, of Hawthorn, was
educated partly in England, then at Mel-
bourne's Mandeville Hall. During the
two years she spent in Japan she was
private-secretary to the Financial Adviser
to the C.-in-C. of British Commonwealth
Forces. Back in Sydney, she was private-
secretary to the principal medical officer,
R.A.A.F. Eastern Area. Now Anne is
public-relations officer with Qantas. Her
sports are squash and tennis. Photo by
John Warlow.
At the party given by Mrs. T. G. Jones
in her lovely Elsternwick home in honor
of Wanda Shilliday and Bruce Nelson,
who marry at St. John’s Church, Toorak,
early in February, the hostess wore a
frock of black silk taffeta, the skirt
having a floating panel. Wanda chose a
pretty pale-pink silk, patterned in black.
Her mother, Mrs. A. E. Shilliday, wore
a frock of white-spotted sapphire-'blue
tie-silk. Mrs. Jones was helped by her
two daughters, Mrs. Ivor Carolan and
Mrs. Kevin Warne Smith. The two
bridesmaids were at the party: Frances
Summons, in a black-linen frock, and
Helen van Senden, whose choice was a
pleated frock of cinnamon-brown shan-
tung. Other guests were Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Hotchkiss, the Frank Watts, Mr.
and Mrs. Lionel Newton, Col. and Mrs,
Malcolm Macarthur, Mrs. W. H,
Horsfall and Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Johnson.
☆ ☆ ☆
Appropriately named Tarcoola (abori-
ginal for “bend of the river”) is the
Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs. James
McGauran, who gave there, for the cele-
bration of their silver-wedding annivers-
ary, as original a party as could have
been conceived. After being received in
the flower-decorated house guests went
into the garden, where a fountain played,
colored fairy-lights were strung and
antique Chinese-lantems lit up the paths.
Looking up to the house, set high on a
cliff, guests saw it reflected in green light,
which came in from the many surround-
ing trees and shrubs.
When all were assembled a large ferry
came to anchor at the river’s edge at the
bottom of the garden, and from it stepped
waiters bearing long tables already set
for dinner, while a kilted piper played.
Other waiter Wet up an oyster-bar under
the willows, while a huge fire in the
barbecue was ready to serve a hot supper
later in the evening. Dinner over, guests
went on to the ferry and danced,
☆ ☆ ☆
Flower-filled reception-rooms provided
the perfect setting for pretty frocks at
the combined Christmas- and house-
warming-party given in her new Toorak
home by Mrs. G. Walsh, who received
her guests in a pale-grey nylon-organza
frock which had the full skirt pin-tucked
into bands. Mrs. Ken Luke’s ensemble
was in dove-grey tonings; Mrs. Jack
Manton’s short white frock was pat-
terned with flowers in silver thread cen-
tred with a large rhinestone ; Mrs. Nor-
man Coles wore a fine cotton in grey,
patterned with a tiqy black flower. Mrs.
Alex Finlay’s short sheath-frock of green,
grey and gold lame had a cuff outlining
the strapless top; Mrs. John Robertson’s
short white-nylon frock was patterned
with black wavy stripes and highlighted
with a. scarlet-satin sash. Mrs. G. White-
head’s pure-silk frock in gold tonings was
self-patterned, the skirt fully pleated,
SYDNEY
One of the most interesting of the
Christmas-parties was the International
Luncheon arranged by Group 5 of the
Penguin Club in St. James’ Hall. Mem-
bers prepared delicious food representa-
tive of many nations and served it
decorated with appropriate flags, and
three excellent speakers described Christ-
mas customs in their own lands.
Madame R, Agbayani told of the long
Christmas season (22 days) in the Philip-
pines, where Spanish customs, such as the
ceremonial “kissing of the hands” among
the family after returning from church,
mingle with carol-singing, the Christmas-
trees and card-exchanging which have
been introduced by the Americans.
The Dutch Christmas, as described by
Dr. Wonters, centres on religious
observance, with all the beautiful bells
of Holland chiming on the cold air, while
the present-giving and merrymaking is
celebrated on St. Nicholas’s Day,
December 6, when Santa Claus arrives
riding a white horse to administer
rewards and punishments.
Particularly interesting was Madame T.
Kovacs’s description of Christmas in
Hungary, where Christmas Eve is kept
very quietly, with all the family at home.
The children are not allowed to see the
Christmas-tree until it is fully decked
and the candles lit, then a bell tinkles,
the door is flung open and the children
stream in to see the tree and to receive
their presents. Then, after dinner at
8 p.m., the whole family, except the small
children, go to midnight Mass. The
whole atmosphere, said Mrs. Kovacs,
was to Her as a child that of joy, mystery
and expectation.
Mrs. R. Victor-Smith presided at the
luncheon and thanked each speaker in
his or her own language, Mrs. Jean
Ellis, co-founder and Federal president
of the Penguin Club, was also present
at the luncheon, which concluded with
a singing of “The First Noel.”
Recently engaged is Myra Kennedy,
a talented young pianist and daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Kennedy,
of Fairlight, Manly. Her fiance is
Keith Robinson, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. W. Robinson, of Bal-
gowlah. The young couple plan to marry
in the spring of next year and will make
their future home in Dubbo. Photo by
Dorothy Welding.
The departure of the R. G. Howarths
for South Africa early in the New Year
will leave quite a gap in Sydney’s literary
circles, where they are both well-known.
Mr. Howarth, who has been appointed
to the Ardeme Chair of English Litera-
ture at Cape Town (S.A.), is a scholar,
poet and critic, and was until the end of
this year Reader in English Literature at
Sydney University.
Mrs. Howarth is an honors-graduate in
Arts of Sydney University and is also a
graduate in Economics. She has had con-
siderable experience in publishing
and teaching and has had many
stories and reviews printed, particularly
in “Southerly,” Her book. Poems of
Rossetti, with a critical appreciation, was
written in honor of the Pre-Raphaelite
commemoration in 1948, but was pub-
lished later. Now interested in writing
plays, Mrs, Howarth hopes that the easier
domestic conditions in Cape Town will
give her more time to devote to this work.
The English Association, of which Mr.
Howarth is president and Mrs. Howarth
vice-president, will be especially sorry to
see them go.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Christmas-shopping period brought
home very sharply a serious deficiency in
modern education. That is, the failure to
teach girl-children to carry baskets on
their heads. Why should we be burdened
down with tote-bags, string-bags, carpet-
bags, etc., when a simple basket poised
on the head would leave our hands free
for straphanging, fighting our way
through crowds, getting tram-fares out
of pockets, sampling goods and snatching
a quick luncheon in comfort? The ability
to balance such a basket would also im-
prove our carriage and bearing. It might
make things rather easier for very tall
pickpockets, it is true, but otherwise the
accomplishment would be of inestimable
value. It is therefore suggested to the
Department of Education that the sub-
ject be introduced to the kindergarten
curriculum early in the New Year, so
that next Christmas the first batch of
basket-carrying girls will be ready for the
shopping-season.
☆ ☆ ☆
Notable engagements of Christmas-
week included that of pretty Judy Cross-
ing (who has just returned from a 10-
month holiday abroad) to Michael White,
only son of Mr, and Mrs, A. H. White,
of Bell trees. Scone. Judy, who is the
younger daughter of the late Mr. W. S.
Crossing and of Mrs. Evelyn Crossing, of
Edgecliff, is wearing a sapphire, ruby and
diamond ring. Her sister, Mrs. Colin
Ryrie, gave a party during the week to
celebrate the engagement.
Another engagement of interest is that
of Gillian Galbraith, only daughter of
Mr. Colin Galbraith, of Edgecliff, and of
Mrs. Keith Martin, of Point Piper, to Bill
Maxwell, who is the only son of Mr,
and Mrs. A. M. Maxwell, of Moss Vale.
Gillian, who is keenly interested in in-
terior-decoration and is a partner in the
attractive gift-shop, Sherry’s, at Double
Bay, has chosen a diamond solitaire for
her engagement-ring.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the chief features of the Royal
Family’s Christmas-party is the 15ft.
Christmas-tree, glittering with lights,
bright garlands and ribboned packages,
round which all members of the family
join. This year the party included, as
well as the Queen’s own family, the
Queen Mother, Princess Margaret, the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, their
sons Prince William and Prince Richard,
the Duchess of Kent and her son the
Duke of Kent, and Princess Alexandra,
whose birthday falls on Christmas Day,
It was the Queen’s great-great-grand-
father, the Prince Consort, who first
made the Christmas-tree popular in Eng-
land, having brought it from Germany,
where it had been a custom for 200 years.
The three huge, sparkling trees which he
had decorated for the Royal Family’s
Christmas in 1846 caught the imagination
of the public, and the Christmas-tree has
ever since been an institution in British
countries.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting visitor who arrived in
the Orontes is the Hon. Mrs. .Henry
Hornyold-Strickland, who is the daughter
of the late Lord Strickland, a former
Governor of Tasmania, Western Aus-
tralia and N.S.W. Mrs. Hornyold-Strick-
land and her parents were in Australia
from 1904 to 1917 and now live in the
700-year-old family castle at Kendal,
Westmoreland, England. During the 37
years since she was here many changes
have taken place in Sydney, but Mrs.
Hornyold-Strickland says that she intends
taking her husband on a “conducted tour”
of the places she remembers. While in
Sydney she and her husband will be the
guests of Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes of Rose
Bay.
☆ ☆ ☆
Latest novelty from America is a carpet
which glows in the dark in a pattern of
panda, clowns, ducks, dolls and alphabet-
blocks. The idea is to allay the fears
of children who don’t want the light
turned out at bedtime. One would think
it even more terrifying to wake up from
a nightmare and see such a collection
glowing at one, and as for the suggestion
that the carpet would be good on stairs
or dark corners, it seems more likely to
create a neurosis as one tried to pick
one’s way through a scattering of non-
existent toys.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO ALFRED JOHN NICHOLAS.—TAKE
NOTICE that AMANDA LEAH NICHOLAS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2495
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 4th April 1955 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. J. BULL, SON & SCHMIDT,
Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—ln _Divorcb.
TO HERBERT FRANCIS HALL late of
107 Narrabeen Park Parade Warriewood.
—TAKE NOTICE that by Order of the
Twenty-ninth day of October 1954 IT
WAS ORDERED that you secure alimony
to your wife BEATRICE MAY HALL for
her life and that security be given to
the satisfaction of the Registrar within
fourteen (14) days from the date of the
said Order and YOU WERE FURTHER
ORDERED to pay maintenance for your
daughter AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that the said BEATRICE MAY HALL has
filed a Notice of Motion which has been
set down for hearing on the 18th February
1955 asking the Court to make certain
Orders in connection with shares held by
you in Matthews Thompson and Com-
pany Limited. Copies of the documents
may be obtained without charge from
MAKINSON & D’APICE, Solicitors, 30-32
Carrington Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friends
TO JACK GREENWOOD LIDDIOUT for-
merly of 2 Malvern Avenue Croydon.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GRACE
MAVIS LIDDICUT has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the 15th day of March 1955 the
case may proceed in your absence and you
may be ordered to pay costs. —RAYMOND
W. BETHELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
TO MERVYN ALLEY formerly of 91
Denham Street Rockhampton in the State
of Queensland but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MARGARET VERONICA ALLEY has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of the State of Vic-
toria for a Decree for dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion. Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of Victoria in Melbourne on or before
the Fifteenth day of March 1955 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs If you intend
to defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the
Twenty-fifth day of March 1955. —ROY
SCHILLING & CO., of 379 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Public Notice
I, HILDUR ROBERTSON, nee FUCHS, of
Austrian nationality, born at Wies,
Austria, resident 19 years in Australia,
now residing at Chalet 89, Chullora Park,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Vermeer and Renoir
Andrew Forge’s commentary
in the new Faber Gallery
Vermeer is in the fashionable
style of geometrical or purely
technical evaluation, in which the
painting—the lovely, created
thing; as living as a bird —
always seems to get lost in the
geometry.
It is rather like Edith Sitwell's
writings on poetry, all about
anapaests and caesuras and the
tonal values of vowels and
consonants, marvellous in its
meticulousness, alarming in its
technical expertness, and marvel-
lously boring. Mr. Forge writes
of the “Maidservant Pouring
Milk”:
The po-intillS spreads across the
basket and jug as well as the bread:
they are surfaces which are brought
to the same terms by the light which
glitters on both. It also invades the
skirt: there is no imitative sympathy
in the paint here but a consistent
statement of light. The hands and
arms, jug and bowl and the shapes of
the wall beyond are painted levelly,
each area given its full value as part
of an optical relationship.
Which, no doubt, is true; but
what one feels, looking at the
“Maidservant” in the Rijks-
museum in Amsterdam, is, first,
the exquisite luminosity of
Vermeer’s blue, radiant as
molten sapphires on the canvas
(and far too subtle in its varia-
tions to be captured by the repro-
duction in this book ; perhaps
in any reproduction); and, next,
and above all, the profound and
tranquil reverence of the Dutch-
man’s vision of life. Here are
a loaf of bread, a milk-jug and
a girl; and somehow, mysteri-
ously, and not only through the
“optical relationship,” one has
reached, in Eliot’s phrase, “the
still point of the turning world.”
It is this combination of flawless
quiet vision with flawless tech-
nique that sets Vermeer apart
from all other painters, tiny
though most of his canvases are.
However, here are 12 Vermeers
in color, and anybody who is
collecting the admirable Faber
Gallery set will want this one.
The same may be said of the
other latest addition to the series,
the second volume of Renoir,
which also leaves one with some-
what mixed feelings. Bernard
Denvir, the commentator, seems
to accept all Renoir’s paintings
as of equal value, admiring the
sloppy red “Two Girls in a
Field,” painted late in life when
the artist was “crippled with
rheumatoid arthritis, suffering
from frequent fits of depression,
walking only with the aid of
two sticks and afflicted as well
with bronchitis and a hernia,”
quite as much as he admires the
beautifully firm and graceful
“Young Woman of Paris” in her
captivating blue dress and
bonnet —which he has unearthed
from its obscurity in the
National Museum of Wales,
In fact, by his praise of the
“sculptural rotundity” of the
two fat females in the field one
might almost imagine that Mr.
Denvir would approve Renoir’s
sculptures those exceedingly
rotund nudes in the Impressionist
Gallery in Paris, weighted for
ever to the earth by the incon-
ceivable ponderosity of their
bronze buttocks. Renoir among
the Impressionists is a note of
lyric grace—of girls and poppies
and children—and it is idle to
search for values when he fell
away into sloppiness and senti-
mentality.
But for the “Young Woman of
Paris” alone this volume is worth
while, and there is also a most
delicate “Child with a Cat,” all
in white.
Stage and Music
Royal Melb. Philharmonics
The oldest choral body in the
British Commonwealth with con-
tinuous public appearances to its
credit opened its second century
at Melbourne Town Hall with
its usual Christmas presentation
of Handel’s “Messiah” —its 102nd
performance of a work which
seems to contain pretty well all
music in it.
Bernard Heinze, who holds
the record for conductors, with
164 of the society’s concerts to
his credit, was in his usual place
in the rostrum. Though there’s
no reason to suppose he hadn’t
learnt his business since he first
conducted the gigantic opus in
1927, there was, at times, a
voluptuous and ornate quality in
the sounds he extracted from the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
and the singers which would
probably have surprised Handel.
The soloists were splendid.
That seasoned oratorian Robert
“I never could stand the cacophony of knives , forks and plates in a restaurant."
Payne aired the richest baritone
heard in the building for a long
time, and Ronald Dowd, the
Sydney tenor, was clear, precise
and extraordinarily expressive.
Soprano Glenda Raymond and
contralto Florence Taylor needed
a bit more volume to occupy
fully the empty spaces, but the
tone of both was lovely. The
usual immense thrill was caused
by the entrance of Mervyn Simp-
son’s trumpet, and the organ
boomed and danced under Lance
Hardy’s fingers.
Talkies
“White Christina*”
Tiptop entertainment, this
Paramount film has snappy lyrics
and tuneful numbers by Irving
Berlin ; handsome sets in color ;
photography in the new Vista-
vision process, which brings
clarity to distance shots; good
dancing-sequences ; and a story
(about the efforts of two Broad-
way troupers to save the failing
tourist-hotel business of their
old war-time commander) better
than that of the usual musi-
comedy.
It also has two masters of
relaxed comedy in Bing Crosby
and Danny Kaye, plus Rosemary
Clooney and Vera Ellen as two
further reasons why the
comedians are impelled to succor
their old C.O. At Sydney Prince
Edward and Capitol.
* *i* *
“Long John Silver”
This film, made in Australia,
suffers an even worse fate than
that of most sequels, and R.L.S.
would roll a bit could he see
what has happened to his two
chief characters of Treasure
Island. Robert Newton, as
Silver, pins his histrionic faith
to a leer and perpetually roving
eye. The rest are no better. At
Sydney Plaza.
Other Current Offerings
Possibly in a subtle conspiracy
to revenge themselves on the
city’s critics and commentators,
three Sydney theatres decided to
wait until everyone had a Christ-
mas hangover before billing, all
for Boxing Day, three new shows
—“Rose Marie” on ice at the
Empire, variety on ice at the
Palladium, and “Coconut Grove”
at the Tivoli.
Other seasonal fare includes
three daytime pantos, “Puss in
Boots” on ice (Empire), “Cin-
derella on Ice” (Palladium),
“Dick Whittington” (Tivoli),
with Jenny Howard and Jim
Gerald. The Royal has stuck to
comedy, “Dear Charles,” as its
seasonal offering, with, during
the day, Peter Scriven’s puppets.
• » • •
Current films worth inspec-
tion: “La Ronde,” back for a
brief season (Savoy); “Woman’s
World,” a sharp comedy of the
business world (Mayfair); “The
Living Desert,” one of Disney’s
admirable nature-studies (Paris);
“Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe,” which has more to it
than you might expect (Palace);
an M.-G.-M. production of the
musical, “Brigadoon” (St.
James); and, of course, if you
haven’t seen it, “Gone with the
Wind” (Liberty).
A National Theatre
Without knowing what the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust is
going to do with its £IOO,OOO it
would be most unreasonable to
make suggestions, but I gather,
vaguely, that the Trust is to push
a few quid here and there to
underwrite what it considers
meritorious theatrical causes.
That’s good in its way—there
are quite a few deserving
theatrical causes in Australia
but I wonder if, in the long run,
financial guarantees produce
energy or apathy? I can’t help
feeling that the real need of
the theatre in Australia is a
theatre, and that the cause would
be better served if all the energy
and all the finance of those
interested were directed to that
end.
The situation is the same all
over Australia, but, for the sake
of convenience, consider Sydney.
In about 20 years of playgoing in
Sydney most of the good stuff 1
have, seen has been in the small
repertory houses in or out of
town.
There have been the big shows,
of course —the Old Vic, the Strat-
ford people and others, and
J.C.W, have occasionally taken
a fly at something with a little
more weight in it than usual,
such as “Edward, My Son” and
others. But in the main the big
city houses play safe with
musicals and inconsequential
melodramas and lightweights.
On the other hand, to snatch
a quick batch of them from
memory, the repertory groups
have offered such comedies as
“The Circle” (Kuringai Theatre
Guild), “The Happy Time”
(Mercury) and “Volpone” (Inde-
pendent), and such drama as
“Shipwreck” (Metropolitan) and
“Death of a Salesman” and
“The Heiress” (Independent).
Those plays and many others
—and the players in them —
should have had the benefit of
full city presentation for at least
two reasons: they deserved it;
and, because they were admir-
able examples of how good the
stage can be, they are the very
thing to entice people to legit,
theatre.
These days the problem is not
to get audiences back to the
theatre; it is to show people
who have grown up on films
just how good legit, can be. It
is a most complex problem and
there is no one answer to it. But
one of the first things to be done
is to put on good legit, theatre
where audiences will come to it
and where they can see it in
comfort at least equal to that of
the film-houses. Some of them
will come because they want to;
others because the film-houses
are full; it doesn’t matter why
they come provided they do
come, and provided they are
shown something worth looking
at.
That raises the second point.
What do audiences want? A
wonderfully wide question, but
after watching plays and audi-
ences for 20 years I have con-
cluded there are two things they
don’t want —intellectual drama
with “messages,” “culture,”
“ideas” and the like; and light-
weight potboilers. Both tend
to be boring to the average audi-
ence, and it is only the average
audience that can fill theatres and
go on filling them.
The greatest ovations I have
heard have always been given
either to comedies with as much
humanity as humor in them, or
to drama that drags at the
emotions in one way or another.
Don’t ask me how that’s done ■
it’s the playwright’s job —but
there are plenty of plays that do
it. There are the examples men-
tioned in the foregoing and, if
you want classic examples,
consider the end of “Lear” or of
“Hamlet” —whatever else W.S.
knew or thought, he knew that
you have to get your audience
by the innards and twist ’em.
So, getting back to the begin-
ning and a national theatre, the
plays are there and so are the
people capable of putting them
on. What they need is some-
where to do it—a centrally
located theatre, comfortable, not
too big and not too small.
Sydney Palace, currently given
over to films, is a perfect example
of what is wanted.
Such a theatre, subsidised if
necessary and under the direction
of an able committee or
individual, could be given over
to showing the best of local
repertory work after it had had a
trial-run at its own diggings;
to worth-while visiting com-
panies ; and to ballet and opera.
I can see no better way of
encouraging Australian theatre
than of offering it good city
showing if it deserves it; and I
can see no better way of
encouraging Australians to spend
a little time discovering that, for
real entertainment, the films
aren’t in it against good legit.
O.F.


The Gun
By Jack
Lusly
JOHNNIE GIUFFRIDA
didn’t quite know what to
do with his first day of
freedom.
There was nothing he could
do about Red Leary. Red was
safe from Johnnie. Safe in jail.
Down in Sydney. That’s why
Johnnie didn’t quite know what
to do. Two hours earlier Mac
and Harris had walked out with
Johnnie through the big gates
of the Brisbane jail, and they’d
split up. No good being seen
with Mac or Harris for a while.
Not right after coming out from
a stretch for a bank hold-up.
Johnnie wanted to get away
somewhere quiet and off his
usual beat for an hour or so and
do some thinking. He’d been
strolling idly towards the bridge
spanning the river; and over
beyond the bridge he could see
the city, stacked up white and
honey-colored and slashed with
shadow in the fierce morning sun.
There was a hazy drift of smoke
above it. The dull, busy hum
of the city came over the river.
He turned away from it and
walked along Stanley-street,
Stanley-street is mighty long,
wide-open to the sky and glaring
hot. Carries a lot of fast traffic
heading out of town. Big trucks
heading for New South Wales.
Not a great many people walking
about. Some Chinese. Per-
centage of native people. Quite
a few native people. Goes back
to cane-kanaka grandpas and
abo. mums and war-time Yank
negroes mixed up in it. A pretty
colorful stretch of street. Sea-
men and wharfies heading for a
beer. Plenty of places to have a
beer. Plenty of places to have
anything along Stanley-street.
When Johnnie Giuffrida the
gunman turned into the coolness
of O’Malley’s bar he wasn't
surprised to find the only other
customer in there a darkie. It
was eleven-o’clock in the
morning.
This darkie wasn’t real dark.
Not much darker than Johnnie.
Black, kinky hair, white, short-
sleeved singlet, greasy-blue
gaberdine pants and sandshoes.
You see plenty like Riki along
Stanley-street.
Riki looked at Johnnie with
ocean-wide tradewind-tolerance
and pushed a pair of florins on
the bar.
“Like a drink?” he said. Soft
husky voice.
< “Sure thing,” said Johnnie the
gunman.
Johnnie is small, but smooth
and well-filled as a saveloy. This
day his snowy-white silk shirt
dim-lit the gloom in O’Malley’s
bar. He had a dark-red bow-
tie under his face and a white
Panama on top. Worn just right.
The stretch for holding a gun
on the bank-manager wasn’t
showing anywhere on Johnnie.
Johnnie talks slow, but thinks
ahead of the beat. He’s calm
dynamite. That’s why Red Leary
was sweating down south when
he thought about Johnnie. Safe
in jail but sweating.
“Here’s luck,” Johnnie said to
Riki. Half-thinking about what
to say to Riki, half-thinking
where to get a gun and get back
in business. Thinking about the
next job, and just playing with
the first beer he’d seen in years.
That’s how Johnnie ticks.
Johnnie had been on fishing-
boats round Sicily, been a war-
time conscripto and deserter apd
a post-war blackmarket-operator
in Naples. He’d paid for his
final consignment with a cheque
for two-hundred-thousand lire
and left that day for Australia.
When they catch up with
Johnnie, those colleagues of
Naples, they’ll find him holding
a .45 and meaning it.
Johnnie reckons if you hold a
.45 and mean it you don’t have
to shoot. Not often. Police and
bank people and men who know
about guns might take a chance
on a ,22, or even a .38. Not often
on a .45. They know a .45 is
pretty sure to kill wherever it
hits. It’s got a shock like a
sharkbite. According to Johnnie.
But a man must be able to handle
it. Johnnie holding a .45 looks
like a man who can handle it.
6 6TTOT day,” Johnnie said.
“Not like where I sailed
from,” Riki told him.
“Where from?”
“Madang.”
“Hot up there, all right,”
Johnnie said. “You work on a
ship?”
“Kalemula.”
“Big ship?”
“Big for the islands. Fine big
ship. You know something about
ships?”
“Little boats round Italy war-
time,” Johnnie said.
“Bit of trading?”
"Yeah,” Johnnie said, looking
straight up at Riki,
Riki was taller. Johnnie was
looking for something. Riki
might have it. He felt Riki
wasn’t as casual now as a few
minutes ago. He knew Riki
belonged out in the islands some-
where. Not Madang. Could be
some Chinese in Riki, too,
Johnnie thought, studying him.
But he believed Riki had sailed
from Madang. That much about
Riki was true. Johnnie’s sixth
sense was in gear and running
smoothly. Still looked the same
smooth Johnnie, but not casual
any more.
“You know something about
fishing-boats?” Riki said.
“Sure thing,” Johnnie said.
“Same again,” he called to
O’Malley,
O’Malley was along the far
end of the bar concentrating on a
sheet of horse-tips. He didn’t
want to be in hearing of
customers’ talk. Not customers
like Johnnie Giuffrida. O’Malley
had recognised Johnnie.
“Coming up,” O’Malley said.
“You still in the market for a
bit of trading?” Riki said after
O’Malley moved away.
“I could be,” Johnnie told
him.
Riki had studied Johnnie.
“What sort of nets they use
where you come from?” he said,
“I only saw seine-nets,”
Johnnie said. “What they call
seine-nets out here.” He was
thinking, this hoy’s smarter than
he looks. A good way to be.
“I’ve been caught doing jobs,”
Johnnie said suddenly. He’d
decided to force things a bit.
This boy either had something or
he hadn’t. Something for
Johnnie.
“What’s the lurk?” Johnnie
went on.
“Kalemula pulls out for
Sydney in two weeks,” Riki said,
“Held up in Brisbane till then.
Something on her we can’t
unload in Brisbane. Dope.” He
watched Johnnie with lazy-
looking concentration.
Johnnie broke-open a pack of
smokes and gave one to Riki and
put one in his own smooth face.
Just a moment more to think.
Riki fit the fuses and both blokes
puffed for time to think.
“Brisbane Customs didn’t find
it,” Riki said. “Planted where a
hungry rat wouldn’t find it
Worth two-thousand pounds
Australian to you and me if we
get it ashore. Me, I’m on the
ship. X need someone ashore.
Nobody else on the ship in this
deal. Just me and a Chinaman in
Madang.”
“How’ve you fixed to get it
ashore?” Johnnie said. He had
a look around the bar. Quite a
few other customers in
O’Malley’s now. Johnnie looked
them over. Five wharfies, couple
of salesmen, couple of big men
could be anything. Johnnie
looked at the two men who could
be anything.
"OIKI hadn’t distracted Johnnie
by answering the question.
“You got a police record?”
Johnnie said.
“Not here,” Riki said.
“0.K.,” Johnnie said. “I
don’t want to be picked up con-
sorting. Got to watch it.”
“She’s jake, mate,” Riki said
without surprise. “Tell you how
I’ve thought about getting this
packet ashore.”
“Let’s have it quiet, then,”
Johnnie said.
“Right, mate, here it is,” Riki
said. “Fortnight ahead the
Kalemula pulls out of here and
skates down the coast to Sydney.
Bit south of the Queensland
border she passes about ten,
twelve miles east of Evans Head.
You know Evans?”
“Sure thing,” Johnnie said.
“Fishing joint just over in New
South.”
“Right,” Riki said. He was
still talking low, but with a
noticeable shade of Polynesian
enthusiasm. The double-fisted
handshake in his voice.
“There’s a gold-rush on at
Evans Head for the big king-
prawns they’ve struck there,”
Riki said. “Forty-three boats
there. Boats from everywhere.
Two or three men to a boat;
and each man making a hundred
quid a week or more. Mighty
good sailors working these
boats.”
“What’s mighty good sailors
and the big seafood rake-off
got to do with this job?”
Johnnie said.
“Got everything to do
with it,” Riki said. “One thing,
they’re not looking at anything
else but these outsize prawns.
Eight fathoms under their keels
they got a goldfield. Another
thing, they’re gold-rush minded.
Just as soon pick up a canister
with a flag on it off Evans Head
for a hundred smackers as do a
dawn prawn-drag.”
Johnnie hadn’t got it. Not
quite.
“Sounds like nice work,” he
said. “Sounds interesting.”
“The Kalemula’s going to
pass Evans around three-thirty
a.m, the morning after she loses
Brisbane. The first prawn boats
get out over the Evans River
bar about that time in the
morning. The keen types.
Blokes who haven’t had a session
the night before.”
“You’re fresh out of Madang.
How you know all this about
Evans Head?” Johnnie said.
Johnnie was still looking for a
slip-up in Riki. Johnnie had
learned to check a man from
Stetson to stilts before trusting
him.
“Last time down put in a
week there,” Riki said. “Been
asking a few questions round
Brisbane this trip. Still the
same set-up at Evans, they
tell me.”
“Yes,” Johnnie said to
O’Malley.
“Johnnie’s my name,” he
said. “Johnnie Giuffrida. What
do I do?”
“I’m Riki. I knew who you
were. I come to Australia a lo + .
You look like your newspaper
pictures. Still wear the same
sort of clothes. Make yourself
look a bit different down at
Evans. Have another name.
Johnnie something else. Be
from somewhere else. 0.K.?”
“Right, I’ll keep the Johnnie.
Answer more natural. What
else?”
“There’ll be a travelling
salesman down there before
the Kalemula sails. Selling
linen and silk and stuff. He’ll
know about you. He’ll pay you
for the can when you give it
to him. A thousand. If you
have to sling a hundred pounds
to the men on the boat he’ll
give you that. Don’t be pals
with him.”
“I’ve got it,” Johnnie said.
Riki didn’t know what Johnnie
was thinking about confiding in
fishermen. Men who might
drink later and talk. Or might
put the police on Johnnie before
he could collect and beat it out
of the State.
“Stay at the hotel,” Riki said.
“I’ll telephone you there just
before the Kalemula leaves Bris-
bane. Don’t worry about the
salesman. He’s all right. Just
keep away from him till you
want him. Now go down there
and make friends with a fishing-
boat.”
There was a lot of surprise
inside Johnnie about Riki. He
kept it inside.
“I think you’re a hundred per
cent.,” he said to Riki. “You’ll
find it’s a good way to be.”
IN a crazy clutter of little
streets and tumbledown
wooden houses on a hill over-
looking the city Johnnie got a
gun.
Next morning he went out of
town in a big passenger-bus. He
didn’t look very much like
Johnnie Giuffrida. A bit, but not
much. Different clothes, different
hat, different haircut. Not too
neat. He felt complete now,
with the gun.
About five-thirty in the after-
noon the bus pulled up in front
of the hotel at Evans, and
Johnnie shouldered in through
the loud laughing, slap-happy-
dressed excited mob and fixed it
with Svensen for a bed. He put
his bag down in a room off the
back veranda and went back in
the bar to look at the men in
there.
He put two-bob down among
some prawnheads on the bar and
nodded to the barefooted
barman. There were a lot of
bare feet round the bar. Through
the swirl of cigarette-smoke
Johnnie could see a lot of keen-
looking weather-stained faces,
beards, bare heads, old Army
hats, a couple of faded, bashed-
down peaked caps that might
have served at sea or in the air,
loose-flapping open shirts and a
few men who, by contrast, looked
amazingly natty.
All sorts of men here, Johnnie
thought. AH different, but some-
thing the same about all of them.
All pretty young. Men getting
the dough the quick way, but a
hard way. Dragging it off the
bottom of the sea in surf-tossed
bockle-shell boats with Davey
Jones’s locker the least of their
worries. Cracking Davey Jones’s
locker, the way Johnnie looked
at it.
He wondered which of them
round the bar he’d have to kill
with the .45. Supposing Riki
came good. Just wondering with
half his mind. Didn’t really
matter to Johnnie at this stage.
The way Johnnie’d worked it
TO BE CARVED ON STONE
John Johnson’s girl is buried here.
And he himself has shed a tear
And written her a poem or two;
Forgetting what she ever was
He thinks her name alone will do
And says that he is rather sad
To every girl he shouts a beer.
The girl herself was something more
Than name or word can yet restore,
And he remembers this at times
As suddenly, upon the stair,
He hears her voice say ’’Something rhymes ;
Remembers he is rather sad,
And looks around for friends to bore.
You strangers who have found this grave
Can such remembrance never have.
The trick of hair, the twist of head.
The sudden way she laughed aloud,
But coming here and what you’ve read
May make you think it rather sad
And touch you like the thought of love.
N. S. WALES.
RAY MATHEW


out after talking to Riki, he’d
have to shoot on this job. Throw
someone to the sharks. Then
wreck the boat. Fix an accident.
What Johnnie had found out
about the Evans surf these men
sailed through, it wouldn’t be
hard to fix an accident. And
anyone involved in the kind of
accident Johnnie had in mind
wouldn’t be talking about it
afterwards.
“I hear in Sydney these boys
are doing all right with the big
prawns,” Johnnie said to the
barman. This barman’s face was
red with exertion and sweat was
dripping off it.
“Yeah. And running me
ragged keeping the slops up to
’em. Me and the other bloke
behind the bar. And only fisher-
men now. Over Christmas
thirty-forty thousand crowd into
Evans for holidays. Gawd help
me then.”
“Any chance to get a ride out
on a boat?” Johnnie said.
“No trouble. You want to?
Get your feet wet, mate. She’s
a rough old ride over the Evans
bar. To hell with it for me. Be
with you in a tick.”
The barman grabbed three
pots in each hand and said to
Johnnie “Push that handle over,
will you, mate?” Johnnie
pushed the handle and the
barman fanned the six pots under
the tap and slid them along the
beer-wet bar-top one by one so
they stopped in front of the right
blokes.
Johnnie grinned somewhere
inside his face. He could
appreciate skill.
r pHE barman leaned over and
1 talked to two fellows about
six men along from Johnnie.
Johnnie looked them over. He
knew these men were the men
he’d be sailing out over the bar
with in the morning. One was
built like a horsebreaker. Long,
wiry and red on top. Made
Johnnie think of Red Leary.
Face had a windburnt skin
stretched tight over his skull.
Eyes used to looking at things a
long w%y off. About thirty-five.
The other man was plump and
sallow. But Johnnie knew the
way these men were getting then-
bread and butter. This soft man
had it in him somewhere.
Johnnie never underestimated a
man.
Except once.
This second man was short like
Johnnie, and deliberate slap-
happy in dress. He wore a white
T-shirt and shorts and sandals
and a porkpie-rimmed Aussie
hat sombrero-fashion with a
bootlace under his chin. These
Evans Head prawn-sailors came
in all shapes this time when the
big money was on.
“They’d like to meet you,
mate,” the barman said.
Johnnie picked up his beer
and walked round the back of the
men in between.
“Glad to meet you,” he said.
“I’m John Ravi.”
Prater and Joberg told
Johnnie their names. Joberg
was the thin one. Joberg had a
serious air about him. Prater
wore what looked to Johnnie
like a slight but permanent grin.
‘Have a fresh beer, Johnnie
me boy,” Prater said. “You
want to come out on a boat?”
“Yeah, I’d like to.”
“Get sick?”
“No. I’ve been on little boats.
And fishing-boats.”
Prater’s grin widened, “Ours
is little, mate,” he said. “Littlest
in the fleet. And the joggliest.
The Warrigo. Parked alongside
the Kapai Queen. Kapai’s the
big forty-five footer. You can’t
miss her. The Warrigo’s only
half that big.”
t “She’s not flash,” Joberg said.
“And there’s no handholds. Just
telling you.”
“Last drink, gents,” Svensen
said.
“Three here,” Johnnie said.
“Sure X won’t get in your road?”
“You’ll be right, Johnnie,”
Prater told him. “Be on her
about three-thirty. Stiff pitch-
dark then, but we like to get
racing early.”
Svensen was hustling his meal-
tickets out into the darkness of
the street. Johnnie asked the
barefooted barman to have
someone call him at three and
bought a flask of good rum. To
offer Prater and Joberg a drink
out there beyond the surf in the
morning.
Standing with them Johnnie
had heard the dull roar of the
surf in behind the babble of
talk. He could hear it louder
now. A series of long-drawn
rolling crashes. Well, these men
knew their business. All
Johnnie had to do now was ride
out with them and study the
job.
AT three in the morning the
rouseabout girl shook
Johnnie’s shoulder and told him
the time. “Cuppa tea on the
table,” she said. Johnnie said
thanks and asked how was the
weather.
“Nor’-easter. Not too strong.*
They’ll be going out,” she said.
By the time she’d finished say-
ing it Johnnie was full awake
and hunched over reaching for
the tea.
The girl saw that Johnnie was
interested in the tea, and went
away. Johnnie found a place to
hide the gun in the room. No
good having it found on him by
some accident at this stage.
Found in the room anyone could
have left it there. Not even
Johnnie’s prints on it when he’d
finished hiding it.
He put on a worn raincoat
and put the flask in one of the
pockets, pulled on an old felt
hat and sandshoes and went out.
He picked his way warily to the
jetty. There was some starlight,
but no moon.
The Kapai Queen had a high,
splayed bow, and the little
Warrigo was rubbing against her
side like a nuzzling foal. Johnnie
walked across the big boat and
dropped aboard. All around a
spindly forest of masts waved
gently against the stars. Johnnie
sat on the stem of the boat and
waited for Prater and Joberg.
He heard a mutter of talk, and
feet thudding up over the deck
of the Kapai Queen.
“You there, Johnnie?”
“Sure thing.”
Joberg dived out of sight
through a hatchway, and Prater
ran lightly round the foredeck
twanging rigging and humming
doh-ray-me-fah as though tuning
a guitar.
What Johnnie could make of
the Warrigo in the dark, she had
a high, decked-over cabin
for’ard, full beam of the boat,
and was cut down aft to a low-
sided sort of well-deck with a
narrow, raised bit of decking at
the stem. There was a mast
amidships against the cabin with
a solid-looking boom for swing-
ing a heavy catch aboard. There
were boxes and bins everywhere
and a pile of net.
Stanchions stuck up three or
four feet on each side aft near
where Johnnie was sitting.
Prater thumped down and patted
one of them. “Good for hanging
on to,” he said. “About all
there is to hang on to. Otter-
board stanchions. You know
about otter-boards, Johnnie?
Like underwater kites. Carry
the wings of the net out and
down to the bottom.”
Prater was getting gear in
order in the dark, while he was
talking, with the dexterity of a
conjuror. Johnnie watched with
interest. He admired this off-the-
hook efficiency.
There was a burst of sound
from the engine; Prater cast
off, and in a flash, it seemed to
Johnnie, the Warrigo was racing
along the Evans River in the
starlight, dodging among the'
dark shapes of moored vessels.
Joberg was standing down
amidships at the helm, peering
ahead over the raised foredeck.
His hands rested on a vertical
tiller that stuck up about breast-
high. A joystick sort of helm.
Lights were beginning to show
now on other craft as the
Warrigo twisted among them.
“Hell —I’m not doing a bloody
thing right yet,” Joberg shouted
into the wind. “Nearly bumped
that one!”
“Better do something right
soon,” Prater shouted from the
bow. “Hear ’em cracking on the
bar?”
“Hang on when we get into
’em,” Joberg said back to
Johnnie.
Ahead, streaking the dark,
Johnnie could see the white line
of surf. He was thinking, a
queer job, this one. The queerest
he’d ever handled. But he was
full of confidence. He had the
picture of the job clear in his
head. As in most things, a good
start in a job meant a good finish.
This was a good start.
r pHE Warrigo lifted smack into
A the face of the first one and
fell nose-first over the back of
it. Hurtling spray hit Johnnie
in the face like hail. Prater was
hunched up on the bow, dark
against the next line of white
water. Johnnie improved his
grip on the stanchion and braced
his feet as the boat reared and
fell into the next black trough.
“Now!” Prater shouted.
Joberg whacked the tiller over
and the boat turned and ran
north in the trough between the
breakers in the outer surf.
Johnnie guessed she was running
parallel to the unseen beach.
The next comber took her on
the beam, and the thigh-deep
tumble of surf nearly wrenched
Johnnie from his grip. Joberg’s
only grip was on the tiller, and
Prater balancing up for’ard with
a light hand on a stay seemed
to have octopus suckers on his
feet. The little Warrigo shook
“Another happy-go-lucky race-crowd , Charlie."
herself like a wet dog and slid
beam-on down into a black,
white-veined valley of water.
“We run about four-hundred
yards north in this gutter,”
Joberg shouted to Johnnie;
“then whack her nose out into it
again. Only way out of Evans.”
“All you do coming back-in is
reverse it,” prater’s voice came
from the bow. “Nose her into
the next one a bit, Jo. They’re
cracking a bit hard.”
As the wave came at them
Joberg, spread-legged and firm,
brought the tiller over and the
boat climbed diagonally up into
the tumbling avalanche, bucked
through and slid again down into
a trough.
“O.K. Out we go,” shouted
Prater. The Warrigo swirled,
and turned her high nose
gallantly out to face the serried
tumult of the surf. Taking it
head-on again. Some relief to
Johnnie.
Johnnie hadn’t talked coming
out over the bar and racing along
that crazy channel. He was
studying what was to him a new
and special skill. Studying it in
relation to the job. Johnnie
studied everything about a job.
On a job Johnnie was a perfec-
tionist. First thing in this job
was to get accepted by Prater
and Joberg as a useful passenger.
Welcome to go out on the
Warrigo any time. Particularly
one time, a couple of weeks
ahead.
They were out through the
surf now, scaling the long,
smooth outer > swells. Prater
came aft on the high foredeck,
barefooting adroitly through the
lashed-down jumble of prawn-
boxes and sorting baskets, and
dropped to the gunl near
Johnnie like a perching seagull.
“May I suggest a rum, sir?”
he said like a P. and O. steward.
He felt in the hip-pocket of his
soaked shorts and held out a
flask to Johnnie, Johnnie
grinned.
“Rum here, too,” he said,
slapping his own pocket. He
and Prater had a drink. Johnnie
was cold and wet, and the drink
burned hot inside him.
“Give me a go at it,” Joberg
said. He upended the flask for
a moment, letting the tiller ride.
He turned to Johnnie. “Feel all
right?” he asked,
“Sure thing,” Johnnie said.
There was a salmon-pink
streak of mackerel, sky high up
ahead. Joberg jerked his head
at it. “Steer for that,” he said
to Johnnie, We’ll fix some
snapper tackle. Too early for
prawns. When you see a reef
out there go for the reef.”
■jCRATER monkey-swung up
for’ard and began sorting
gear. Joberg rolled a smoke,
watched Johnnie’s easy touch on
the tiller for a moment, then
went down into the engine-cabin.
The raised foredeck reached
to Johnnie’s chin, and he stood
looking over it into the redden-
ing sky ahead. The tiller stuck
up about as high as a pick-
handle, and Johnnie’s hands
rested gently on it. In the red
dawn and the easing swell he
felt as much at home as a peasant
in a field. Johnnie can put things
out of his mind till he has to
recall them. An essence of
wisdom. Guiding the Warrigo
to the reef somewhere out there
gave Johnnie deep pleasure.
He’d have been secretly resentful
if the helm had been taken from
him just then.
But Prater and Joberg didn’t
do that to Johnnie. They knew
how he felt. To them Johnnie
looked soft, like most other men
do to deep-sea fishermen. But
they liked how he’d come over
the bar. They liked to know he
was enjoying the ride out on
their boat. They liked the way
he was ready and waiting at
3.30 a.m. And he wasn’t getting
in their way. All this unspoken
between the fishermen.
“Bloody hell’s Howten
doing?” Prater said. Joberg had
appeared with a box of squid
bait, and his eyes swept back
towards shore.
“Getting a bit cheeky, drag-
ging in there,” he said. “Do his
gear on the rocks.”
Johnnie looked back over the
miles of water towards shore and
saw nothing. A long time since
Johnnie needed to look at any-
thing that far away.
“There’s old Hackett squatting
cm his lobster-pots like a bloody
hen,” Prater said. “Must have
thought we were out early to
have a pick at ’em.”
Johnnie looked where Prater
was looking, and caught a white
fleck on the sea a couple of
miles south. Then he saw other
white flecks coming out after the
Warrigo. Fanning out over the
sea. Joberg and Prater made
terse comments about these boats
as if they were alongside.
Johnnie was thinking hard
about these men’s eyesight.
Might see a floating can just on
daylight when Johnnie would
miss it. Might be a good thing.
Might see something Johnnie
didn’t want them to see. Too
soon. Might be a bad thing.
Something about the job to
watch,
Johnnie still had the tiller. He
turned and looked out to sea
again. And blinked salty-eyed
in the red glare of the sun, half
up on the flaming horizon. He
saw red-crested breakers tossing
in a great heap, dead ahead.
About a mile. Some reef.
“What side of it?” he said.
“A bit north of it,” Joberg
told him.
“If we see someone get on to
the prawns we’ll up-hook and go
after ’em,” Prater told Johnnie.
“We’U let those b s find ’em
while we show you a bit of
fishing. We hope.”
“The old king-prawn sleeps
in a different bed each night,”
Prater went on. “Fleet scatters
each morning to find him. When
one boat starts dragging him up
we all gather round.”
“Plenty for everyone?”
Johnnie said.
“Enough to sink us.”
“Should see the things we
drag in,” Joberg said. “Things
prawns eat, the fish that eat
prawns and so on right up to
tiger-sharks. It’s the law of the
jungle down there.”
Up here, too, Joberg, Johnnie
was thinking.
“Much trouble sorting the
catch?” he said.
“Sort it all out going in,”
Prater said. “When we hit the
jetty we’ve got the big prawns
graded and packed in ice in
boxes. Ten minutes later they’ve
been checked for size and
weighed and we’re up having a
beer. All you’ve got to do in this
job is be smart. And don’t hit
the beach coming in and smash
the lot,”
“Many hit the beach coming
in?” Johnnie said.
“Two last month. And the
way you shoot in here it’s more
like a plane-crash than a boat-
wreck.”
This talk suited Johnnie.
Suited the way he’d figured the
job. That kind of a wreck, and
the surf smashing it up, nobody’d
know if the sorting had been
done or not.
“Engine off!” Prater said.
Joberg dived below and killed it.
They were a couple of hundred
yards north of the reef. Engine
off, the waves were crashing on
the reef with a noise like the
knell of doom. Lifting, rearing
and crackling down with
rainbow-shot spray floating off
in the blue air.
The current was running south
round the reef. Prater chucked
an anchor over the bow. The
boat swung and drifted stern-first
towards the maelstrom, careening
at a strange angle up over the
great green swells. She hove-to
just short of where they were
cracking and wallowed crazily.
Three heavy nylon-lines had
been fixed. Baby-squid bait.
6 her out easy,”
Prater said, handing
Johnnie a line. “She’ll drift
along to the reef. If something
takes it, let him take it away a
bit, then yank him. 0.K.?”
Johnnie said, “Sure thing,”
and tossed the line over the stern
on his side and watched the bait
drift away. A seabird swooped
at it, and Joberg belted the side
of the boat with a lump of wood
and shouted at the bird and it
swept up and away.
The fishermen got their lines
over and Johnnie watched the
way they handled them. Johnnie
was clinging to the otter-board
with his spare hand. He
wondered how he’d pull a fish
in without sliding overboard.
He began to think this stand-
still-wallowing was a hell of a
test of a man’s stomach before
breakfast. Suddenly he swung
his body overboard, one arm
clinging to the boat and the other
to the nylon, and lost yesterday's
o Continued on next page )


breakfast. And everything in
between.
While he gasped in anguished
recovery the line suddenly
whizzed and cut through his
fingers.
“Hang on to him, Johnnie,
you beaut!” Joberg said. No
comment on Johnnie being sick.
This kind of tossing got them
now and then, after a night out.
But they still fished. They
casually watched to see if
Johnnie could still fish.
Johnnie knew what he had to
do. This was all part of fixing
the job. He let go the otter-
board, and balanced precari-
ously pn the tipping deck and
began dragging in his fish. Being
sick and hauling on the line.
Twice it sizzled out through his
fingers and cut in as he got a
fresh grip on it. Prater was
grinning happily.
“Got to be tough in this game,
Johnnie,” he said. He reached
over and swung Johnnie’s madly
fighting snapper inboard. Un-
hooked him and chucked him in
a bin. Rebaited, and handed
Johnnie back his line.
“A ten-pounder, Johnnie. A
bloody beauty!” he said. And
grabbed his own line as it
sizzled over the stern. Prater was
singing, now, balancing in a squat
half-crouch over the stern,
sombrero pressed flat on his
head. The big prawns were the
money. But this was fishing.
All three lines were in business.
Later, with two - hundred
pounds of the big red fish in the
bins, the Warrigo left the reef
for calmer waters near the rest
of the fleet. The otter-boards
went over, and carried the prawn-
net wide and deep to the sandy
seabed forty-feet below. The
long, slow drag began.
With the natural forward
movement of the boat Johnnie’s
sickness disappeared. He felt
good. And he felt right on top
of the job. He gave a hand sort-
ing as the drags came in. He
judged from Joberg’s visible
elation it was a good day for the
Warrigo. Johnnie had decided
you couldn’t tell a thing from
Prater’s grin. There was plenty
in Prater under that grin. It
was just something Prater wore
all the time. Like the sombrero.
He was thinking he knew Joberg
now. And that not many men
would ever know Prater. Or just
“Py cripes , Jackie, they'll be havin' you for libel!"
what Prater would do. Some-
thing to be watched.
“That’s enough,” Joberg said
suddenly. “Let’s get going. See
her coming over?” Prater had
a quick look round the sky.
“You’re dead right,” he said,
“Going to get mighty joggily
out here soon. WeVe done all
right ”
Johnnie also looked at the
way out against the sky. Nothing
else to see.
Johnnie had the tiller again
as the Warrigo raced for land.
Prater was packing prawns in
ice and Joberg was expertly
gutting snapper. Another
boat was cutting in ahead. The
boat ahead was rising and going
down till only her mast was
visible in the shore swell.
Astern the fleet was strung
out, coming in behind the
Warrigo. There was a tower-
ing bank of cloud stretching
dark and high into the sky.
Boats cresting the long swell
back there shone white against
it. Shorewards Johnnie could
see the streaky backs of the big
waves rolling at the beach.
“I’ll have a turn at it now,
Johnnie,” Joberg said. Johnnie
went back and leaned against
his friend the otter-board.
Prater stood up on the foredeck.
The Warrigo lifted and surged
forward as the first roller ran
under her. On the next she
shot like a surfboat for a few
seconds, then fell behind it.
Johnnie had caught sight of
the boat ahead turning south
into the channel in a great
flurry of white water, almost
obscured. She’d seemed almost
on the beach. Johnnie guessed
it couldn’t be as bad as it
looked.
MOW the beach was rushing at
the Warrigo. Her nose was
way down and her stern high
in the breaking wave. The wave
left her and crashed on the
beach.
Joberg had the tiller hard
over. There was a heavy jar ;
then the boat had turned and
was racing through the channel.
Johnnie could see people
watching on the beach. As a
breaker struck the Warrigo on
the beam and lifted her Johnnie
looked seawards and saw a
string of boats coming in on
the crests like a flight of birds,
white against the great black
cloud out there. Some sight.
Another wave cracked against
them and exploded over the
Warrigo. One more. Then she
turned her low stern to the
tumult and was cutting a white
track in over the still, green
water of the river.
“Second boat in,” prater told
Johnnie. “Means we’ll be
cleared in no time. Feel us hit
bottom on the turn back there? ’
“I felt a bump,” Johnnie said,
“Thought we were’ going to
bump the beach.”
“Yeah, it looks like that the
first time.”
“We’ve got a load on, and
the tide’s a bit low,” Joberg
said-about hitting the sand.
Johnnie knew now exactly
fow 8 He* was
boat. You can learn plenty in
a fortnight.
The Warrigo’s prawns passed
the size-count and were weighed
and tipped into the big cooking-
bins. Over a thousand pounds
of prawns. Big prawns. With
two hundred pounds of
snapper to garnish the day’s
cheque for Prater and Joberg.
Johnnie worked it out they’d
made about a hundred quid. It
was only about eleven-o’clock
now. Good going. He went
over to the hotel with them for
a beer.
“Like to come out again to-
morrow, Johnnie?” Prater said.
“Or would you like to try it on
one of the bigger boats?”
“I sort of like the Warrigo,”
Johnnie said. “Will it be O.K.
tomorrow?”
“O.K. with us,” Joberg told
him. “Weather’s crook right
now, but it’ll probably ease
down by morning.” He put a
big snapper on the bar.
“Have the pub cook bake it for
you with a bellyful of oyster-
seasoning. If you haven’t tried
it the way he does it you haven’t
tried anything.”
That day Johnnie asked
Svensen if he could borrow a
pair of binoculars to take out
on the boat. Svensen said sure,
any time, but be sure and hang
on to ’em.
Johnnie was thinking it would
be a good thing to take the
glasses once or twice in advance
so it wouldn’t look queer having
them the day he had to find the
can of dope out there.
He made a point of being
careless about shaving the last
few days. He was wearing only
an old khaki shirt and tattered
shorts and sandshoes. Burnt
brown in the sun and wind and
sea-glare. Indistinguishable in
appearance from the fishermen.
Not much like Johnnie Giuffrida
of the white silk shirt and bow-
tie and panama-hat. Nothing
conspicuous now.
rf was mid-afternoon, and
Johnnie was sitting on the
edge of the hotel veranda
rolling a smoke. Fishermen
were standing around drinking
beer on the veranda and in the
bar.
From one of the hotel’s
parlors in off the veranda came
the voices of women. Young
women, wives of some of the
fishermen. They were examining
and exclaiming over dress-
lengths and linens a salesman
had spread out over the table.
They had money to spend, and
the salesman seemed to be doing
all right.
Johnnie was thinking, pretty
smooth, that Riki.
Svensen answered the phone.
“Ravi? Johnnie Ravi? Sure,
I’ll get him. Hey, it’s for you,
Johnnie.”
“Hullo, Johnnie; how’s
things?” Riki said.
“Couldn’t be better.”
“So I hear,” Riki said. “Wish
I was there.”
“Yeah.”
“Matter of fact, I’ll be passing
within about twelve miles of you
on Friday morning. Morning
after next. Bit early though.
Four o’clock.”
“Bit early, all right,” Johnnie
said.
“Yeah, that’s the way it goes.
I’ll wave a flag on a twenty-
foot pole and bang a tin-can
as I drive by. All in your
honor.”
“You do that,” Johnnie said.
“See you some other time. Bye
now.” He put the receiver back
and walked out on the veranda.
The salesman was leaning in the
doorway of the parlor looking
at the back page of a news-
paper. Having a smoke and a
breather. Johnnie leaned on
a veranda-post.
“Selling plenty?” he said to
the salesman.
“Getting a bit of it off my
hands,” the salesman said with-
out interest. “Know anything
good for the races?”
“Don’t bet often myself,”
Johnnie said. “But I’ve been
promised something good on
Friday. Let you know about
it.”
The salesman nodded a pessi-
mistic thank-you and Johnnie
strolled along the veranda and
went into the bar.
6 6TJEY, ho, and oop she
rises,” Prater sang. The
Warrigo butted up into a breaker
and spray splattered the deck.
The Warrigo had left the
channel behind and was almost
through the surf heading sea-
wards.
Another dark, starlit morning.
The first boat out as usual.
Joberg had handed over to
Johnnie and was rattling gear
about in the cabin. Prater was
perched up near the bow peer-
ing ahead under the flapping
brim of the flat sombrero.
Johnnie had a leather wind-
breaker-jacket and the binocu-
lars dangled on his chest.
“Someone’s out before us,”
Prater gagged. Johnnie picked
up the dim lights of a biggish
vessel passing a few miles out
from the Warrigo.
“Looking for our schnapper-
patch,” Johnnie said. “The
word’s got around.”
Johnnie’s plan was crystal-
clear in his mind now. Bring-
ing Prater and Joberg into it
would be highly dangerous to
Johnnie. He couldn’t afford to
be caught again so soon. He
couldn’t guess what Prater
would do. Prater might hold it
on Johnnie for a big share. Or
maybe he was seeing things in
Prater that weren’t there. Might
even grin and say “Your busi-
ness, Johnnie.” Might go to the
police. Joberg might go to the
police. Main thing was,
Johnnie didn’t know.
They were headed for the
schnapper-ground again. Good
thing for Johnnie. Long way
out, near where he’d be looking
for the can. The sky was
lighting-up there now. Day-
light soon.
“My turn to shout today,”
Johnnie said and pulled a flask
off his hip and reached it up to
prater. Joberg came out the
hatch and took a pull at it.
Johnnie faked his own drink and
put the flask back in his hip-
pocket. Prater went back
for’ard.
Johnnie didn’t have to use the
glasses. It was just before sun-
rise when prater said See
something over there, Jo?”
“Yeah,” Joberg said. “Some-
thing there. Head her over that
way, Johnnie.”
The can had a weight under
it and a twenty-foot stick of
wood fixed to stand upright.
The stick had a four-foot square
yellow flag fixed at the top end.
“Don’t think I’d open it,”
Joberg said. “Let the police
have it when we get back. Yel-
low flag could mean more than
just a marker. Could be a warn-
ing about something unhealthy
in the can.”
Unhealthy all right, Johnnie
thought without humor.
“Getting this gadget’s taken
a bit of time,” Prater said.
“Suppose we let the schnapper
sleep-in for once and get the
net going?”
“What I was thinking,” Joberg
said.
“I’ll lash this thing up
for’ard,” Johnnie said. He
fixed it so he could get the can
away easy later when the boat
hit. He’d smash the Warrigo
on the beach well north of the
channel. The last wreck had
hit up there, and the surf had
made splinters of it in half an
hour.
The last drag was hauled
almost in, and Johnnie was
waiting for his moment. Had
to catch Prater and Joberg just
a bit off balance to be absolutely
sure of it. He’d studied them.
They were wary, agile and
resourceful.
Only once has Johnnie under-
estimated a man.
Any moment now. Joberg
was standing near Johnnie at
the winch. Prater was peering
over the stern into the slowly-
gathering net.
Suddenly a silver torpedo
broke surface streaking at the
top of the net and, caught there,
struggled frenziedly to get over
and away.
“Look!” Prater screamed.
“A bloody forty-pound jew!
Gone mad trying to get out
No you don’t, you bastard! ” He
was over the stern in a flash,
swam a dozen lightning-strokes
and was against the net trying
to skulldrag the jewfish back in.
Joberg leapt to the stem and
leaned over it watching, his
back to Johnnie.
Johnnie got the .45 in his
fist and took quick and careful
aim at Joberg. A movement
beyond Joberg caught his eye
and Johnnie shifted the gun an
inch and pumped six ear-
shattering rounds past Joberg’s
head toward Prater.
THE great shark reared high
out of the water, mouth
agape, a momentary vision of
white, torn belly and wide-
spread fins, and cracked back
on the water, churning every-
thing inside the net to a bloody,
boiling froth.
Joberg turned pale, half-
stunned and screaming.
“For Crisake, Johnnie, fire the
rest into him quick! ”
Johnnie was at the stem in a
jump. There was a bloody
swirl near where Prater had been
and a great fin rolled out of the
water. The big gun jerked and
thundered in Johnnie’s fist and
all was silent.
“Give me a hand up,” Prater
said.
Johnnie and Joberg reached
over and grabbed him by the
arms and dragged him in.
Joberg sat on the deck and
jack-knifed forward, head in
hands, shaking. Prater was
leaning back against the otter-
board stanchion, bloody sea-
water running off him onto the
deck.
Johnnie looked at the empty
.45 in his hand for a full minute.
Then he put it back in his
pocket.
That was the time Johnnie
underestimated himself.
KILLED BY LIGHTNING, DARWIN, 1943
This poem should have been written years ago,
but it’s not too late and so I write it now.
Guess you weren’t ever rocked in a cradle,
but sure you were in a mother’s arms though.
We rocked you on a board. Where rock you now?
Tucked warm in the earth’s clay cradle
pedalled by the Lord's great foot and slow?
We rocked you, dead, in Darwin years ago.
Press the board down, now up. “It’s your turn now.
No sense in this macabre adagio,
his breathing will not start nor still heart go.
Yet no one’s game to say the word somehow.
Still warm, still flexed, the electric current flow
that knocked him down and shocked him brow to toe
has marked him less than one hour’s time to grow,
which time and change this boy will never know.
Loud the rain drums. The candle stutters —how
strange its flame the wind sometimes blows out
can be relit, but his flame never now.
We have no match. Wet hair upon his brow.
This poem should have been written years ago,
but it’s not too late and so I write it now.
n.z.
W. Hart-Smith.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Fty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to ‘ The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/ —
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
wWM
.
££2*3s/3
SiviiwiVa
The name is
.-•:i
(D c Cdilums
v;.*;
fft?:
:‘v.v
%
Vi'.V*V*
•tl*' • • *V** *v 1
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3J
SONG OF DAVID
By GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. SCHULTZ carried a
double-barrelled gun in
one hand, and his
Winchester - repeater he
had slung over his left shoulder.
Perched high it seemed like a
pop-gun. Both Peter, aged ten,
and David, aged eight, eyed it
enviously, covetously, but keep-
ing up with their father was
difficult, so they half-ran, half-
stumbled after Mr. Schultz.
Peter was able to accept every-
thing very easily—the acres so
thickly grassed, the oat crop,
even the rabbits fleeing from the
oats through the breaks in the
wire-netting, and making towards
home on the scrub-covered ridge.
But to David it was all too
wonderful to be believed, or
accepted without a great deal of
thought. His eyes glistened, his
nose twitched with excitement.
With the sheer wonder of it he
would skip sideways and shout
foolishly, to be looked at askance
by Peter. Even Peter could not
understand ; staid sensible Peter,
But Mr. Schultz had little time
to spare for emotion of that kind.
Another kind, anger, made him
hurry towards the first break in
the netting. He picked up a
heavy boulder and thrust it
against the netting. The dogs—
Gunny, Butch and Ginge—raced
ahead joyfully, cutting off the
rabbits and wheeling them
towards the repaired break. Mr.
Schultz straightened, aimed his
gun and fired. The sound of it
boomed in Peter’s ears and made
him stop. Fascinated, David
watched the rabbit buck and
rocket into the air. Then the gun
boomed again and another rabbit
slithered into the fence.
David marched ahead, feet
lifting high, carrying the dangling
bloodied rabbits. He hated the
dead smell of them, but he was
angry at them for having eaten
the oats in long precious
incurves. Each rabbit escaping
through the fence gave him a
feeling of despair. Peter eyed
them more calmly. He knew
they would meet their doom one
day, by dog or bullet or bait. But
to David it was an indictment of
his father’s farm, some lack of
perfection—these creatures being
allowed their freedom. Just let
him get at them, and there would
be no mercy.
Seven rabbits they had before
Mr, Schultz began to turn
towards the house. David was
shocked.
“You aren’t gonner go back
yet, Dad, are you?”
Mr. Schultz was amused by the
fierceness of his diminutive son.
“We’ve done pretty well, David.
Besides there’s old Rosa to milk.”
David’s eyes were cold blue
flames. “What about the
rabbits?” he protested. “You
got to remember we’re only home
on the weekends.”
“That’s right,” shouted Peter,
“Gotter get rid of the rabbits.”
Mr. Schultz surveyed the
scrub-covered gravel ridge where
the rabbits bred at their ease.
“Can’t do much with all those,”
he said.
“Ach!” David said in disgust.
WITH a fury of impatience he
ran into the midst of the
fallen cypress and stunted gums.
He began hitting a log in a spasm
of anger. “Come and get the
rabbit out of this!” he shouted.
Mr. Schultz thought of Rosa,
and the wood to be split, and the
fowls to be fed, but he followed
the boys. Ginge, who knew the
logs which held rabbits, disdained
David’s choice.
“No rabbits in there,” said
Mr. Schultz, eyeing David with
mild triumph.
David pranced in fury. “Is!
Is! Is!” he shouted.
“M’m,” said Peter, who knew
David was never wrong.
David suddenly became
silent. The fire died from his
eyes, his nose ceased to twitch.
He looked up at his father from
beneath the switch of pale hair.
“Look here. Dad,” he asked
grandly, “you don’t want your
place overrun with rabbits, do
you?”
Mr, Schultz fought back the
grin, but David saw the humor
in his eyes. With another out-
burst of impatience he tore at
the log with his fingers. “See!”
he screamed, and Peter rushed
to the opening and peered.
Gunny hurried up in time to
verify the discovery. She raced
up and down the log excitedly,
sniffing.
Mr. Schultz watched with
delight, but was careful to
acknowledge his shame. Peter
eyed him questioningly, but
David bubbled with contempt.
When they had poked the
rabbit along the log far enough
Peter grabbed it, withdrew it and
pulled its neck. David watched
calmly, down to the last spasm.
The incident seemed finished,
rounded off, but on the way back
to Rosa and the fowls he refused
to enter into conversation, no
matter how contrite his father
seemed. The truth was that
David was hurt, and his opinion
of his parent —and therefore the
whole world that had, up to date,
counted —■ was considerably
altered, lowered.
CO David, in his sorrow, sat by
the dam and watched the
black ducks take off with feet
trailing the water, whilst the
ducklings submerged for an
incredibly long time, like sub-
marines, and surfaced only when
the danger seemed passed. But
David scarcely saw the ducks
because his mind was engaged
with a new flurry of thought.
There must be some escape
from an unsympathetic parent.
He had seen the concealed
laughter in his father’s eyes, and
the memory of it troubled him.
More, it seemed his father had
lost pride in the farm, and didn’t
care as much about the place as
he, David, did. And that meant
the whole world was not
wonderful to his father. Likely
as not, too, Peter would just be
content to work when the time
came, but he wanted more than
that, more than just the fun of
harvesting, sowing and fallow-
ing. Something more, even, than
finding unexpected hoards of
eggs in the hay—thirty at a time.
He wanted the place to be made
perfect; no rabbits, no grass-
hoppers, only good crops and
pastures with plenty of clover.
Mainly, however, no rabbits.
For David, at that moment,
integrity had gone from man-
kind. Only he retained it, and
he longed to express himself, if
only in revenge.
But revenge, in powerful form,
evaded him for some days. On
the Monday his father drove him
and Peter to the main road. Os.
soon appeared with his bus, and
Peter rushed to get a window-
seat and wave frantically to his
mother and father, but David
was diffident, not caring to
appear enthusiastic. He deigned
a condescending nod, and a quiet
dignified smile. His father
needed a lesson, and as he knew,
and as everyone knew, his mother
was in league with his father,
and therefore must have her
share of punishment.
Neither Grandma snor Aunt
Rita seemed to understand his
steady sadness. When the two
boys arrived after school
Grandma thought it must be
constipation. “You haven’t been
taking your medicine, David,”
she said, peering at him.
“Ah-h-h!” David shouted
angrily. “Don’t want any
medicine, either.”
“What did you learn today,
David?” Grandma asked. She
had forgotten about the
medicine, perhaps on purpose.
“Learn?” shouted the boy
David in a fury, remembering
he could teach his father
nothing. “What does it matter?”
He grimaced at Aunt Rita be-
cause she was smiling in a
secretive sort of way.
TT was next morning that the
thought came to him, and in
the drawing lesson when Rose-
mary Nixon smiled across at
him. Oh, that was it. He could
scarcely contain himself. He
wrote a note, tearing a piece of a
page from the back of his book,
and chalking the words in big
letters. He walked boldly up to
her desk and stared at her draw-
ing, which was better than his.
Any doubt he may have held was
banished by this evidence of
competence. He hurried back
to his desk and waited for Rose-
mary to' send an answer.
Probably Rosemary never
tore pieces from the back of her
book, or she didn’t think it wise,
or that the situation warranted
such extravagance, and when
David was beginning to work
himself into a temper, and feel
that even Rosemary was against
him, she looked up, having at
last deciphered the message. Her
eyes shone and her head nodded,
and she mouthed, silently, a large
and all-embracing “Y-E-S.”
David felt the delight of it
warm him. Now he would be
revenged. See if his father would
be so careless next time. He
began splashing color crazily
and foolishly across his page.
After school he told Peter.
Peter nodded as though it was,
perhaps, a good idea. On the
other hand Peter didn’t really
believe it. His curve of life
arched away, now, from the
earlier world of fantasy. So
David thought it would do Peter
good, too, to see that he was in
earnest. But perhaps Peter
almost believed him, for he
asked, “Where is it gonner
happen?”
David thought for a time.
“She’s Methodist,” he said
speculatively. “I expect I’ll
have to see Mr. Johnson.”
Peter considered this gravely.
“We’re Lutheran,” he said.
“What do you reckon?”
David had always been of the
opinion, though in a vague way,
that Lutherism was somewhat
out of date. “Well, I dunno,”
he said, really puzzled. “I’d
better see Rosemary.”
Grandma was the first to be
puzzled and suspecting. She
nudged Aunt Rita. “Why’s he
so quiet?” she demanded.
Rita had wondered, too, but
was grateful for the quietness
without asking questions.
Grandma shook her head, and
Rita smiled her secret smile, but
David, when he saw their satis-
faction, glowered and huddled
into himself. He was planning
his escape to the last detail.
A/TR. HICKSON, who kept the
corner sweet-shop, was
fairly old ; anyway, according to
David’s reckoning, for he must
have been forty if a day, and
his hair was greying. His eye-
sight was weak, too, so it was
natural for him to mistake the
liquorice rope for the pink stick
David had chosen.
“That’s a lot of liquorice,
David,” he said. “A whole three-
penn’orth of it.”
“Not that! Not that!”
David said excitedly, “I want
a lollystick. A pink one.”
“Not the penny one?” asked
Mr. Hickson wonderingly.
“No,” said David grandly.
“The threepenny one.”
“Well,” chuckled Mr.
Hickson, “if it isn’t the ring on
it you’re after!”
David stared at Mr. Hickson,
his eyes heavy with suspicion.
Then his nose twitched, and he
said excitedly, “That’s right, Mr.
Hickson, I’m going to get
married.”
Mr. Hickson watched the
Schultz boy dart from the shop,
and shook his head. Modern
youngsters were beyond him, and
as for their humor, well he
couldn’t always follow it.
TAAVID had decided on the
Lutheran church, and that
meant returning homewards in
the bus. Os. drove the bus to
and from the town each day,
but not all the schoolchildren
accompanied him. Some, like
Peter and David, stayed for the
school week, but others made
the journey daily. Os., however,
being a polite man, did not ask
David why he was returning,
nor demand a fare. He knew
Mr. Schultz would pay anything
owing. But he did look at David
curiously as he put him down
at the Lutheran parsonage.
David hesitated a moment
before he walked to the door.
He hardly knew the Rev. Alan
Krantz, who had only been three
years in the district and was,
therefore, a newcomer. David’s
first doubt assailed him. Would
Mr. Krantz co-operate? The
house seemed so quiet there in
the late afternoon, so very calm.
Perhaps Mr. Krantz might not
see him. David thought of the
rabbits and trudged doggedly on.
With a feeling of trepidation he
knocked.
Mrs. Krantz opened the door.
She was a pale, gentle woman,
but did not appear at all sur-
prised when he asked for the
pastor. She put him on a seat in
(i Continued on page 34)


UJov&nj
1b Auiiruwu
Crusader is the most “suitable” cloth you can
buy suitable in every respect . It tailors
beautifully. It wears well. And, because it is
woven from the finest Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, it holds its shape until the very end of its
many years of hard service.
The new 1954 range of Crusader suitings is
now available cloths woven by a Mill that is
proud of its product, jealous of the integrity and
high reputation it has built up over 45 years of
continually improving its fabrics top quality
materials, woven by craftsmen. That is why
Crusader is able to give you an unconditional
guarantee that its materials will never fade or
shrink. So why not call on your tailor today,
and ask him to show you his 1954 Crusader
Pattern Book? It contains a new and very
attractive range of Pure Wool prize-winning
Worsteds.
You will be well suited in Crusader Cloth and
you’ll feel good because you’ll look good.
Crusabe*
WOO
noth,
ER
m
TO
FA
mm
i
C 4.113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To sell Frank Harris’s Life and
Loves (4 vol.), early edition of
Rabelais and Phil May’s Sketch Book
(1903 edition).—s9s9.
Words of poem “Cceur de Roi,” by
Henry Lawson.—5960.
Words of verse “The Old Bark
Hut.”—s96L
Anyone know of poem about an
ancestor’s or writer’s mantle descend-
ing on the shoulders of another person
many years later?—5962.
Name of author and poem, of which
the following is an extract;
My lady gave me a tiger,
A sleek and splendid tiger,
A striped and shining tiger
All\under the leaves of life.
—5963.
Complete words wanted of old bush
song, of which Henry Lawson quotes
two stanzas in “A Hero in Dingo
Scrubs”: —
The crows kept flyin’ up, boys,
The crows kept flyin’ up.
The dog he seen and whimpered, boys,
Though he was but a pup.
The lost was found, we brought him round
And took him from the place,
While the ants was swarmin’ on the
ground
And the crows was sayin’ grace.
—5964.
To buy four-months-old Sydney
silky terrier-bitch delivered in Detroit,
Michigan, air-freight. (Reply direct to
R. W. McWilliams, 17183 Wormer,
Detroit 19, Michigan.)
Seventeen-year-old Chinese school-
boy, fond of collecting stamps, music
and reading, would like to exchange
correspondence as well as stamps, with
residents in Australia. (Reply direct
to Wong Hon Cheung, 5 Po Wah
Street, Second Floor, Hong Kong.)
f" ■■■
Information Sought
Method of repolishing old cedar
furniture ?
This is not an easy job for the
amateur: it requires patience and
some skill, but, with time to spare,
it can be undertaken successfully.
The old coatings must first be re-
moved ; a varnish-stripper, various
brands, can be obtained from paint-
stores, and is usually better than a
home mixture. If a commercial
remover is unobtainable, the following
is said to give good results: Mix
together in a bottle one part oil of
turpentine with two parts ammonia,
and shake until cloudy; apply with a
woollen swab, let stand a few minutes,
and begin removing varnish, etc.
Clean down thoroughly with warm
soapy water rather dryly applied, and,
when dry, rub smooth with fine emery-
or sandpaper. The wood will now
probably require a fixed stain; cedar
stain in spirit or oil is recommended.
Failing a bought stain, mix perman-
ganate-of-potash crystals in hot water,
and add a small quantity of Venetian-
red to get the cedar tone. Apply with
a brush or cloth wound on a stick.
Then hand-polish with a mixture of
beeswax shredded into turpentine, and
placed over water-heat until it
liquefies: it is highly inflammable.
Apply with a flannel and polish with
another clean one. This is the ancient
finish applied to good furniture. It
improves by repeated treatments, and,
although slow to do so, gives a hand-
some low gloss in time; it is also an
insect-repellant. Try a small piece of
furniture first for experiment. Cedar
i 5 a soft wood, and should be scraped
carefully with a blunt soraper.
♦ * * *
Some information on the Sepik
River (New Guinea ) ? ,
The Sepik is the largest river in
New Guinea; it’s over 700 miles long,
its mouth about one nautical mile
wide. It is not closed by a bar, but
is from five to eight fathoms deep at
the entrance. There is no delta
formation. It flows at 2\ to 3 knots,
and discharges so much water that it
discolors the sea a dirty yellow to a
distance of 15-20 nautical miles. It
enters the Bismarck Sea at Kopar,
about midway between Madang and
Aitape. In 1921 it was navigable for
large ocean-steamers for a distance
of 60 nautical miles, but is not so
navigable now, though it is navigable
for some 300 nauitcal miles for smaller
craft. The main direction of the
stream is west-to-east, but its course
is serpentine. In places the stream
is confusing, with numerous windings
and loops, lagoons, dead-ends and
lake-like expansions, carrying large
islands. Several large tributaries enter
the river from the south. Above the
tributary called October River, the
Sepik flows mainly south-to-north,
and it enters and leaves Dutch terri-
tory four times. Its headwaters are
around the meeting-place of the New
Guinea, Papuan and Dutch border-
lines, and very close to the head-
waters of the Fly (which flows south
into the Gulf of Papua).
# * * *
Who was the first Premier of Vic-
toria, and some information about
him ?
William Clark Haines (1807-66),
born in England, son of a London
surgeon. He came to Victoria in the
1840’s, and after farming in the
Geelong district was made a magis-
trate; in 1851 he was nominated as
a member of the Legislative Council.
He resigned a year later, was
elected for South Grant in 1853. In
1854 he was appointed Colonial Sec-
retary, and on the establishment of
responsible government became Pre-
mier and Chief Secretary in the first
Victorian Cabinet (Nov. 28, 1855).
He was elected to the Legislative
Assembly in October, 1856, and his
Ministry remained in power till
March, 1857. After the short-lived
(seven-weeks) O’Shannassy, Ministry,
Haines again became Premier, till
March, 1858. Returning from Europe
in October, 1860, after an absence of
more than two years, he was re-elected
to the Assembly, and formed a coali-
tion with O’Shannassy, serving as
Treasurer in the latter’s Ministry. He
lost his seat at the 1864 election, but
in August, 1865, he became member
for Eastern Provinces in the Leg.
Council. He died Feb. 3, 1866. Not
a good speaker, he was a capable
administrator, and a man of strict
probity.
♦ * ♦ ♦
What are the script-requirements of
the A.8.C., from the point of view of
a freelance writer?
The A.B.C. buys most types of
play—classic drama of the great
writers, every variety of modern
drama and comedy, radio-plays,
stage-plays adapted for radio, adap-
tations of stories and novels, (Aver-
age length of play is from 50min.
to an hour.) In the field of lighter
entertainment, variety material, scripts
of topical or fanciful humor, light-
entertainment with music, and so
forth, may be submitted. There are
occasional openings for short-stories
of 1200-1500 words; also for plays,
talks, stories, serials for children’s
sessions. As regards talks in general,
most of those given are commissioned
or are recorded talks from 8.8. C.
programmes; but “outstanding”
material may be submitted (Bi-13£min.
length).
* • ♦ ♦
Where does the word “podsnap-
pery” come from ?
From the pompous character Mr.
John Podsnap, in Dickens’s Our
Mutual Friend. He continually pro-
tests against anything likely to “bring
a blush into the cheek of the young
person” (his daughter), and he always
knows the exact designs of Providence
(which invariably coincide with his
own wishes).
Brief Answers
R.A.1.: (1) Know of no re-acclima-
tisation society in Australia. (2) There
is a total ban on the importation of
birds and birds’ eggs into Australia.
A.H.: See the Writers and
Artists’ Year-book (1954) for names
and addresses of British and American
literary-agents. Available public
libraries, or The Bulletin’s copy
may be consulted T.R.J.W.; (1)
True that no oil in really large quan-
tities has been found south of the
Equator. True also that some oil has
been found in almost all parts of the
world, though Africa and Oceania
seem to possess only small quantities.
(2) Petroleum is thought to be derived
from organic matter (fatty parts of
marine organisms, etc.) subjected to
high temperature," or by the action
of steam on carbides. (3) Not pre-
pared to hazard a forecast
T.W.S.: It means “footprints”
A. Coonong in the Riverina is
owned by Mr. Roy McCaughey....
B. : The “missing bank-clerk” in
the New Guinea timber-lease case was
Ainslie St. Aubyn Kingsford, an
officer of the Bank of -N.S.W., who
disappeared in January, 1949. In the
report by the Royal Commissioner,
Mr. Justice Ligertwood, tabled by Mr.
Chifley in the House of Representa-
tives on June 24, 1949, Kingsford’s
disappearance was shown to be in no
way connected with Mr. Ward’s safe-
deposit,.. .J.N.: Unable to locate a
township or pastoral property in
Queensland named Mt. Exmouth;
there is a property named Mt. Egmont
near Kingaroy (Q.)... .M.R.S.: Les
Eclaireurs de France means “Scouts
of France”; tout droit means “straight
ahead,” “straight forward,” “dead
straight.” It can also mean “bolt
upright” G.W.: Not prepared to
wade through Lenin’s writings to
track down such a quotation, though
we’re certain it, or something very
like it, will be among them some-
where. Lies and deception, of course,
are part and parcel of the Communist
creed and practice.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.J.T.: “Many times have I sought
a plausible explanation in vain.” It
really is inexplicable... .H.A.K.: You
seem to have something to say, then
why not say it plainly? H.C.: Next
thing you’ll be discovering that the
clouds have “a silver lining” T. 8.:
That style was old-fashioned when
The First Fruits of Australian Po'etry
was published A.E.F.: “The ter-
rific import of this gigantic catas-
trophe, the deadening, sickening,
soul-killing realisation that he was
now alone in the world fell upon him
with the abrupt statement of a burst-
ing cloud.” That statement fell into
the w.p.b. shortly after P.P.:
Apart from his ginger whiskers
“Uncle Joe” seems quite unremark-
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
able R.W.S.: It’s all said in the
first four lines, so here they are:
Once a dismal swagman camped by a
billabong
Under the shade of a coolibajb, tree ;
And he moaned and he groaned and sobbed
till his billy boiled:
“ ’Struth, but it’s terrible, the price of
flaming tea.”
T.C.: Slang is ephemeral at
the best, and unintelligible at the
worst, and in any case no substitute
for good English D.D.: Avoid
such hackneyed phrases as “Nature’s
awe-inspiring nights’ ’ B .B.: ‘ ‘My
boy-friend’s an awful flop.” So, alas,
is the poem F.McN.; A “little
piece” just about describes it
M.L.M.W.: “My poems take about
15 minutes to compose, and ballads
about an hour.” It takes only 10
seconds to see that... .A.N.S.: If
everybody who has cried in verse
“Arise, Australia!” cried aloud at the
one time, the nation would fall
stunned to the ground 0.A.P.:
Lady who discourses on modern
poetry throughout breakfast is either
incredible or monstrous...
Trouble with deliberately “silly’
poems is that they are mostly too
silly for print... .C. 8.5.: Stop telling
tormenting phantoms to begone and
start using the language of your own
tjme .E. 8.: One sobering stanza,
then: —
Barely has a notion created such com-
motion
In a civilised community, to bring about
immunity
From evils now created —which can’t be
overstated—
As the effort to promote a revolution
In the habits of a Nation, Who’s current
legislation
Shows an arrogant assumption that alcohol
consumption
Can be regulated merely, by an edict
which says clearly.
That to, close at 6 o’clock is the solution.
L.J.: The covering-letter is better
than the story; being livelier,
more natural and giving a much
clearer picture M.R.: All the
rhymes are so obvious. You might
at least spare us “trees” and “breeze.”
J.A.L.G.: If you must be dull,
try not to be dismal B.B.; No
bite in that , “Bulldog” J.L.0.:
No doubt “the weird howling of the
dingoes around the Haunted Hut” did
upset you; but did you have to join
in? Y.V.; Catch “Catch”
0.G.T.: Too many amateurs are
using off-rhyme these days as a
camouflage for incapacity U.T.:
Thanks for covering-letter, tribute,
New Year wishes, stamps—every-
thing, in fact, except the poem....
1.D.P.: Lose that terrible indelible
pencil A.MacA.: Tossed “The
Penny”... .T.O’R.; Two lines of
it:—
Australia, Australia, thou land of the
free,
Where the emu abounds like the wolf and
the bee . . .
W.Q.: “Frequently lam impelled
to express my thoughts in poetry,
though whether the result is of the
standard to which I aspire I must
leave it to you to adjudge.” Suppos-
ing for a start you learn to write
plain English prose U.F.: Shorten
and re-submit V.McC,: Send us
“The Tadpole” when it’s grown into
a frog J.S.A.: Deep, very deep.
You’ll drown if you’re not careful.
I.T.: Fair for your age. Read
the annual Australian Poetry
W.8.0’D.: You can’t make a bad
poem any better by using words like
“eftsoons” and saying everything
backwards Peter: Piffle, Peter.
J.J.: “Scorned” is S.E.M.:
“Frankly, should I chuck it?”
Frankly, yes... .F.W.C.: Try “The
Woman’s Mirror” N.G.: Glad to
hear from you again but you’re not
yet up....T.N.: “Alone, alone I ate
the worm.” Well, that should make
you sing like a bird F.S.C.; Just
a whiff from your meditation on “The
Peace among the Gums”: —
Could but the warlords feel
Such concord unsurpassed,
Must not their high ideal
Be peace to everlast?


Justice for "Bill Johnson"
Dutch-Australian Whirligig
By A. H. CHISHOLM
IF ghosts belonging to other
centuries take any interest in
affairs of today, certain
Dutch old-timers must be
nodding sagely, and maybe a
trifle ruefully, over develop-
ments in Australia during recent
years.
For example, I can imagine
the shades of two pioneering
voyagers, Willem Jansz and Jan
Carstensz, exchanging remarks
on these lines —the “translation”
is broad —in relation to events
in the land they once knew:
Jan: Are you aware, Willem,
that between 1945 and 1954
more than 50,000 migrants from
the Netherlands have reached
Australia, and many more are
expected? This, my dear col-
league, is the land that you dis-
covered in 1606, and if you had
then been rather more alert —if
you had laid claim to the country
—all these Dutch people would
now be hosts instead of guests.
Willem (a trifle smugly): Yes,
it is true that I and my company
of the Duyfken were the first
white men to touch Australia.
There may have been a few
Asiatic wanderers around Car-
pentaria before me, but they left
no definite record of their
presence. And as for those
spice-seeking Portuguese and
Spaniards of a few years before
my time, they merely floundered
about the Philippines and New
Guinea and the Solomons, and
didn’t have enough seafaring
ability to find the Great South
Land.
Jan: That’s all very well. I
know that you succeeded where
Mendana and his offsiders
failed —though you only beat
Torres by chance, as it were —
but what I want to know is why
you didn’t possess the land
when you found it?
Willem: That voyage of mine
in 1606 was merely brief, the
land we encountered was unin-
viting, and the natives we met
were very aggressive. On the
other hand, my dear Jan, when
you followed my tracks only
17 years later, with the Pera
and Arnhem, you were able
to travel much farther and
scatter names more freely over
the Gulf of Carpentaria. So, if
it comes to that, why didn’t you
take possession?
Jan: / wasn’t the discoverer
of the country. Anyway, I did
A Dutch ship of the Duyfken type and time.
what I could in the matter, for
I erected on a tree near the
Nassau River, a tablet proclaim-
ing that, “in the year 1623 the
24th April hereto came two
yachts on behalf of the High
and Mighty Lords States
General.” Furthermore, I cap-
tured a blackfellow and took
him back to Batavia, so that, in
time, some information about
the land might be obtained from
him.
Willem: What an optimist
you were! You expected an
unlettered savage to settle down,
learn Dutch and describe a land
of which he had seen only a
tiny portion!
Jan (grinning): Perhaps I was
a trifle ambitious. All the same,
on the score of the tablet I
erected (though I don’t suppose
the aborigines were much
enlightened by it), and because
of my enterprise in abducting
that blackfellow, I may fairly
claim to have been Australia s
first educationist.
Willem: By the way, Jan,
what became of that tablet of
yours?
Jan: I wouldn’t know. It
was only a makeshift arrange-
ment, and I suppose it fell into
decay. What I do know is that
two countrymen of ours who
hit upon the west coast of Aus-
tralia, Dirck Hartog in 1616
and Willem de Vlamingh in
1697, both commemorated their
visits with metal plates, and both
of those relics are now zealously
preserved, the one in the Nether-
lands and the other in Australia.
Willem: Brother, that is fair
enough. Hartog and Vlamingh
deserve commemoration, if only
because they made permanent
records of their visits and left
them where they could be found.
But, in addition, those two west-
coast men have been given
special memorials. So, indeed,
has Abel Tasman. So, in par-
ticular, has the later-day
Englishman, Cook. Why has
Willem Jansz not been
honored? There’s the rub. I,
the discoverer of Australia in
1606, and one who also visited
the west coast 12 years later,
have been neglected.
Jan: And I, too, have been
overlooked. It seems probable,
Willem, that very few Aus-
tralians, and few of the many
Netherlander who are now
becoming Australians, are at all
familiar with the names —the
important names —of Jansz and
Carstensz.
Exeunt, with heads bowed,
Willem and Jan.
As a matter of hard fact, the
achievements of Jansz and
Carstensz have largely been
neglected. Ask an average
bunch of Australians (in the
eastern States) who discovered
this country, and you are pretty
sure to find James Cook a hot
favorite in the voting. It isn t
common knowledge that certain
Dutchmen were peering at
northern Australia about a
tury and a half before Cook s
time. At all events," the names
of those tropical pioneers are
certainly not public property.
Discoverers of the west coast
and Tasmania (Dutchmen again
in both instances) have fared
rather better, two mainly be-
cause they commemorated them-
selves with plaques, and another
because he has had the luck —
if there is such a thing as
posthumous luck —to be the
only man whose name has been
attached to an Australian State.
The course of the Duyfken applied to a modern map. {Both the map and the ship below are
from a paper by T. D. Mutch in the Royal Australian Historical Society “ Journal.”)
The story of those plaques
extends throughout four cen-
turies. It is based, firstly, on the
fact that when the voyager
Dirck Hartog landed, in 1616,
on the island that now bears his
name, he left there a metal plate
commemorating his visit; and,
secondly, on the fact that in
1697 Willem de Vlamingh (the
Dutchman who discovered the
Swan River) removed the
Hartog memorial and left
another in its place.
Vlamingh’s plate', in turn,
might well have been souvenired
by Englishman, the ex-
buccaneer William Dampier,
who was in the Shark Bay area
only two years later, but he
appears to have missed seeing
the trophy.
Instead, it rested on the island
for a century or so and then
(1818) was appropriated by an
enterprising Frenchman, Louis
de Freycinet. Taken to Paris,
it disappeared from view until
rediscovered in 1945, after which
it was presented to Australia by
the French Government.
For several months the inter-
national relic was on view in
Canberra, and the general idea
was that it would remain there ;
but somehow the Common-
wealth Government allowed
itself to be persuaded into giving
it to Perth.
The Hartog plate, meanwhile,
had gone to Batavia and then
to Holland where it was placed
in the Ryksmuseum (National
Gallery) at Amsterdam. I saw
the impressive old relic there in
1938, and was glad to learn
later that it had been safe-
guarded during the German
invasion.
A feeler I threw out regard-
mg the transfer of the plate to
Australia was not cordially
received by the Dutch authori-
ties, but at that time (1938)
migration matters were being
poorly handled and Holland,
quite justifiably, was a trifle
annoyed with Australia.
Anyway, I wasn t a particu-
larly tactful negotiator, for
when lecturing on Australia in
Amsterdam I went out of my
way to emphasise the historic
value of the Hartog relic. No
less rashly (but rather more
lightly), I reminded the audience
that their ancestors had allowed
quite a lot of useful country to
slip out of Dutch hands.
“What you should do,” I
suggested—for Hitler was then
making his loud territorial
noises—“what you should do,
in the light of a current example.
is to ask for the return of Aus-
tralia, or, better still, New
York.”
A bright-eyed veteran in a
front seat chuckled. “We would
be quite content,” he said, “to
receive their equivalent in cash.”
So the amiable discussion pro-
ceeded. Who was to suppose,
then, that within a few years
Holland would also have lost
her East Indies—her cherished
“India”—and, in addition, would
be faced with an impudent
demand to surrender her portion
of New Guinea to the Indo-
nesians?
In face of these developments,
it may seem rather rough for
anyone else to seek a gift from
the Netherlands. Yet, at a time
when Dutch migration to Aus-
tralia has passed the 50,000-
mark in nine years, the thought
has arisen that the Dutch Gov-
eminent might appropriately
strengthen the international
link by returning the Hartog
plate to “New Holland.”
Aside from the consideration
that the relic of 1616 “belongs”
here (since it originated in this
country and remained here for
80-odd years), I’m disposed to
think that it would be of most
value in Australia. For one
thing, there is much less need
to remind the Dutch nation o
its Great Century than there is
to impress on Australians the
pariM?kyedby ** Dutch as dis-
coverers of this “d. For
another thing, if the Hartog
plate were in Australia it might
well be a stimulus, a source of
healthy pride, to all those Dutch
people who have become, and
ftose who are to become, “New
’ . . .
With these ideas in mind I
made a few remarks on the
general subject m a letter to the
Morning Herald” a
few months ago, whereupon the
Royal Netherlands Embassy
pointed out ( a ) that the Hartog
plate was a cherished relic, and
(M that a replica presented by
the Government of the Nether-
lands East Indies was possessed
by the Historical Society of
Western Australia.
Then the Sydney-published
“Dutch - Australian Weekly”
took a hand. Its editor led with
a smart left,’ so to say, by remark-
ing that it was all very well for
Chisholm to point to France’s
example in returning the
Vlamingh plate, but that relic
had little or no sentimental
value to the French people,
whereas the Hartog plate meant
a great deal to the people of
Holland.
Following up that scoring
punch, the Dutch editor ob-
served that in contrast with
Americans (who had honored
Colombus with statues, universi-
ties and what-not), the Aus-
tralian people, with the possible
exception of Tasmanians,
seemed to forget the early dis-
coverers of their land.
“History in Australia,” he
declared, “starts upon the whole
with Captain C00k... .But,
without belittling Cook’s great
achievements, it seems not too
much to ask some recognition
for the Columbus of this con-
tinent.”
And Australia s Columbus,
the Dutch writer affirmed, was
Willem Jansz, ‘ the first white
man of whom it can be estab-
lished that he foot on Aus-
trahan shore, and yet one
whose name is completely
unknown to the majority or
Australians.
Finally,_ the article laia it
down tdat there would be time
enough to talk about transferring
the Hartog plate when more
discoverers of Aus°
me early discoverers or aus
tr alia; and that recognition, i
suggested, might well mdiide a
statue for Jansz in Canberra
and another for Hartog or
Vlamingh in Perth.
r ,s“ e JftTartcle was'lLt”!
reply to that article was that I
d V^ ch T £L^dffiat
sanL 5 * Q f “ c^ ££
J;” e n , . dis
01 “« al " *
h * med desirab £.
f• t • t
Now I find that, aside from
Tasman man featured
PubUc
Lib f N South Wales
New fcutt Wales,
Tasman both in the State
name —one at the
landin |. s ite on the north end of
Forest f er Peninsula and
, towns jji D of
memorials to both Hartoe
“viamffiTh In WA one
~ • 8 iqao to ’ com
"ate V men)‘on Ca^e
Inscription, and the other
, in 1935 in vlamingh’s
}, onor) on Rottnest Island .
_
Western
?^ r h a]ia and Tasmania haven’t
Australia and 1 asmama tiaven t
do £f so ba £ T can eather
n Jher of flie pioneers If,The
“nh jaL andTamtensz hal
’
{Continued on page 34)


wepesewes4
X
n Pa
O on
o »
||PP^ v°?o Q
v-0
%33>i& $ * if/& °o
tesS&sw&loh*%,%&: fo°*°
'°ss
r W-VA-
%) ' I ,o nrF„ 0 0 OO
£ \ 00°o° O P #*9
[> f a„ n° O o o°
7 o o °%o°o ° p Oo
OJ .ft O o O 1 /■. ft
V. V.
If
. c _ pool Xit o _ O o "09P
0-0
0 0
o 000 00 0
o o
O°O o 0000
09 ?0 f>
I 0 o°*°o°°°
0 0 o o n o %ovo
0 0 o*ooo o° 0 »
00 u 000° a o 0 o
5 oo°°oon 0 0
O * P o 0 o 0
oo°
. o
o p O o °OX>O P 0» Oo 0
0 9.
o°o6
Q n i
O O o O otr° oo°
fo°oo<>*§o 0 000 *?,
A&o ° n o° o ."S t.
0O
0 °
o°:6
°S° cf y :
I On
* o
r>»
W&PW o°ofo\j
- ■*“ OrttoS
%%\?9/& 0 /Mi
Cto
°°J? S°~a°
ftp?/ o n o*9t,
<■>*o9
„pp (> 0
m
%
fr-
Q
S'
.'*ss
/ ,
OAS 2.
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K 8.147.18
SPORTING NOTIONS
Fifteen of the colts and fillies
that won barrier-trials at Rand-
wick and Rosebery prior to the
beginning of the two-year-old
season have yet to win in races.
Heat-winners at the trials that
have done well with the colors
up include New Slipper,
Kingster, Queen Nilo, Sendiri,
Knave, Seeta, Sir Newton and
Baystone, Crack two-year-old
Aboukir was one of the beaten
in the early tests, but he quickly
made the grade with the colors
up.
While two-year-olds may
often act in keeping with track-
trials and win at first start with
the colors up, it takes confidence
on the part of a trainer to stage
a first-up success. Vendi, well-
backed winner of the Rosehill
First Two-year-old Maiden last
week, did the right thing in that
way for trainer George Musson.
She had galloped brilliantly in
training, however, so the plunge
was warranted. Another of the
successful Star Kingdom (imp.)
progeny, she is from Prate, a
half-sister to Tittle Tattle, the
dam of Bankbrook, Grand Vite,
Slander and other winners. Cost-
ing 475gns. at the Randwick
yearling sales last Easter, Vendi
was bred at the Baramul stud,
Kerrabee (N.S.W.).
Improving at each outing.
Grand Master opened his
winning-account in the Rosehill
Second Two-year-old Maiden.
Trained at that suburban track
by Gordon Horton, Grand
Master is by Macarthur from
Bountiful by Nuffield from Spear
Lady by Spearhead (imp.).
Piastre, an early winner of the
Melbourne Cup, and Amounis
(33 wins and £48,297 in stakes)
both figure in the colt’s pedigree.
Sydney’s first Tattersall’s Cup
was run as far back as 1868.
The first running of it at
Randwick was in 1901, from
when until 1910 the distance was
two miles. Then the distance
was clipped to a mile and a half,
which still holds.
# • • •'
Good-class horses to win
Tattersall’s Cup have included
Freedom, Kiaree, Swan River,
Craigie, Grand Fils, Dewar,
Feminist, Panacre, Poitrel, The
Fortune Hunter and Alured.
Poitrel, a subsequent Melbourne
Cup winner with lOst, won the
1918 Tattersall’s Cup with 7.11.
Tibbie and Jeypore were dual-
winners. To be run on New
Year’s Day, it’s now a £2OOO
event.
Noel McGrowdie, rider of
winners of Cups in most parts
of Australia, has won four
Tattersall’s Cups; so has Bill
Cook, who, after more than 25
years as a jockey, is still one of
Australia’s very best horsemen.
Cook’s first Tattersall’s Cup win
was on Jeypore in 1931. Later
he scored on Swan River,
Avalanche and Freedom. Mc-
Growdie’s successes were on
Grand Fils, Kiaree, Cymbidium
and Dark Fife.
• • « •
Blue Ocean’s 211\ for a mile
and a half, recorded in February
when the Queen was present at
Randwick, equalled Australia’s
best made by Palfresco at Caul-
field in October, 1935. Bird-
wood won Caulfield’s Oakleigh
Plate, 5} furlongs, in Imin. 4sec.,
also in February, which estab-
lished a new Australian record
for that distance, while in June
Gallant Archer covered. 11
furlongs at Ascot (Brisbane) in
2min. also new time for
Australia for the distance.
Fastest times for the Common-
wealth are listed from 4} furlongs
to three miles, but as there are
no flat races now beyond 2}
miles record-making old-timers
Trenton (4.39| for 2} miles) and
Trafalgar (5.22} for three miles)
will long have their names listed.
Latest official list of registra-
tions of two-year-olds include
some smart namings, including
Affair, a filly by Cursory (imp.)
from Dissipation. Another
smart title is Beautiful Spy for a
Melbourne-trained filly by
Detector (imp.) from Sun Chick.
Another by Detector is Bertillon,
a colt from Bleu Vendredi
(there’s a prominent French
police official named Bertillon
associated with the fingerprint
bureau). Some owners make a
habit of including a sire’s full
name or portion of it when
registering two-year-olds; it
doesn’t help in smart naming.
A crop by the French sire
Donegal (imp.) appear in the
latest list of registrations, but
bouquets could hardly be handed
out for names such as Donegal’s
Hope, Donegal’s Pride,
Donegal’s Star and Donegal’s
Record.
In Melbourne in the coming
autumn and a little earlier there
will be changes in the order of
important events. For the first
time in about 70 years, Moonee
Valley Club will open the Mel-
bourne carnival. That will be on
February 26, with the £5150
Alister Clark Stakes —\\ mile
with a 9.7 maximum—as the
main event. Caulfield’s Oakleigh
Plate and Futurity Stakes will
follow on March 5 and 12, and
on March 19 the V.R.C.’s New-
market and Australian Cup
carnival will get under way. It
will continue on March 23 and
conclude on March 26. There
will be ample time for taking the
best of the Melbourne horses
to Sydney for the £5OOO Don-
caster and £12,500 Sydney Cup
(to which is added a £5OO
trophy). Entries for this A.J.C
double close on January 11.
Speedy grey Native Dancer,
retired some time back in
the U.S., was a good example
of what fabulous money
a high - ranking galloper
can win over there. Native
Dancer won the equivalent of
£A355,000 in less than three
years’ racing. At two years he
earned £A103,000, then a world’s
record, but this was later eclipsed
by Hasty Road, whose owner
netted £A123,000. Native
Dancer won 21 of his 22 races.
The world’s record in stake-
earnings (£484,714) is held by the
American galloper Citation. In
comparison. Shannon won
£18,987 in Australia, but
increased the total to £84,648 in
America, while Hydrogen’s
Australian total is £59,444. In
England Tulyar tops the list with
£76,417.
♦ ♦ ♦
Australia appeared to have the
second Test well in hand after
dismissing England for a first-
innings 154 and while Favell and
Burke, batting briskly and con-
fidently, looked to be heading
our chaps towards another
mammoth first-innings score.
The later collapse, leaving Aus-
tralia 74 ahead half-way
through, brought England back
into the game.
The seesaw again jumped Aus-
tralia’s way when the first three
English second-innings wickets
fell for 55; but the fighting
fourth-wicket partnership of 116
by May and Cowdrey improved
England’s prospects. Set 223 to
make to win, which looked well
within its scope, Australia began
badly (2-34), then recovered with
the slow but solid stand by
Harvey and Burke, the score
2-72 at stumps on the Tuesday.
“You're improvin' , pal—last fight it took four
of us to get you out.”
On Wednesday it went England’s
way from the time Tyson bowled
Burke and Hole in his second
over.
If one man can be said to win
a Test-match, fast-bowler Frank
Tyson won this one. He took
four reasonably cheap first-
innings wickets, but on the last
day he absolutely dominated
play. Of his 10 wickets, five, all
good batsmen (Hole twice), were
clean-bowled! Great bowling!
(And Tyson had been knocked-
out by a bumper the day before!)
He was ably assisted by fellow-
speedster Statham, who, as in the
tour of West Indies, is carefully
“nursed” by Hutton, and plays
just about in Tests only. Not
forgetting Bailey, who, not as
fast as the other two, took the
first three first-innings wickets,
and started England on its first
way back: a very useful
cricketer, despite his two failures
in this Test as opening-batsman.
Looks as if there may be no
place in the English team for
Bedser. Often compared with
Tate, the Big Fella appears to be
suffering the fate that overtook
Tate on his third (1932) tour,
when, with Larwood, Voce,
Allen and Bowes around, Jardine
had no need of Maurice’s by
then gentler thunderbolts.
Statham also helped in two
very useful last-wicket stands —
with Wardle, worth 43, in the
first innings; with Appleyard,
worth 46, in the second. Record
last-wicket stand for England
against Australia is 130, made at
Sydney in 1903-04 by R. E.
Foster (playing his first Test, and
completing the highest Test-
score so far made in Australia,
287) and Wilfred Rhodes, when
Rhodes was last-man-in, before
he’d made himself Hobbs’s
opening-partner.
Australia also had a good last-
wicket partnership, when Harvey
and Bill Johnston, in the second
innings, put on 39 as a dying
flutter. It recalled the winning
effort by Ring and Johnston in
the fourth Test against West
Indies in 1951-52, when 38 were
still wanted when Johnston came
in. Ring’s lusty swings getting
most of ’em. With 78 needed this
time, a new ball due before the
winning hit could be made and a
more astute skipper in the field
than Goddard, there was never
any real chance of a repetition.
Of the English batsmen in the
second innings May and
Cowdrey stood out. The two
young fellows were both school-
boy prodigies with the bat; and
their rise to the highest class of
cricket has been fairly rapid.
They look fixtures in the English
Test side.
For Australia Harvey’s 92 not-
out, exactly half the second-
innings total, will rank with the
greatest Test innings. Despite
the great bowling he faced,
Harvey was in complete control
at the end. Perhaps had he hit
out earlier as he did after
Johnston came in, he might even
have won the Test on his own.
• • • •
“Mid-on”: Back in the Leeds
Test of 1926 Arthur Carr, skip-
pering England, sent Australia
in. Tate’s first ball Bardsley
snicked, and was out. Off the
fifth Carr himself dropped
Macartney ; and Macartney went
on to make his famous century-
before-lunch. As Bradman wrote
in an article “On Captaincy,”
“Had Carr held that catch his
decision might have been hailed
as a master-stroke —instead he
was torn to shreds.”
“Keima”; Can’t beat that
record in county-cricket of nine
consecutive ducks (B. 15/12/’54),
but Enzedder Laurie Miller made
four successive Test ducks
against S’Africa last season —
probably unique in Test annals
for a man in for his batting. He
was an N.Z. cricketer-of-the-
year the season before last.
* * *
The last major golf tourney
for the year in N.S.W. —the
foursomes title —was won by
Sam Richardson and Eric
Cremin, rounds of 68 (one under)
and 73, for a net 143. Bill Holder
and Jim Moran were right on
their tail with 144, and title-
holders Norm Berwick and Kel
Nagle a stroke away third.
* * •
“R.W.”: “Kooyong” (B.
15/12/’54) makes the common
error of assuming that tennis
champion Mrs. Long (formerly
Miss Thelma Coyne) is the wife
of the former Davis Cup player
Colin Long. In fact, Mrs. Long
is the wife of Maurice Long, who
has no reputation as a tennis-
player of any note, so far as I
am aware. Mrs. Nancye Bolton,
mentioned in the same par., is
now a professional, mainly, I
believe, to enable her to work as
a coach, as I have not heard of
her playing professionally.


Behind the Canberra Curtain
Press Gallery
By C. McNEIL
r\ BOUT 10ft. above Mr.
r~\ Archie Cameron’s remark-
| able eyebrows, visitors to
the public-gallery in the
House of Representatives at
Canberra will see a double tier
of journalists.
Some of them, first-rate short-
hand men, take notes and provide
the accounts of Parliamentary
debates appearing in the press.
Others, the heads of news-
services, sit with cupped chins
and register the proceedings in
their minds. There is another
row of journalists up to Mr.
Cameron’s left, along the side
of the chamber.
Occasionally one of the
journalists will get up quietly and
leave the Chamber, and for a
moment the public-gallery
’visitors may hear a strange
mixture of noises from off-stage.
The sounds come from tele-
phones, typewriters and tele-
printers, grouped probably more
closely than anywhere else in
Australia. But then the door
closes again and the visitor is
back with “The honorable
member for East Sydney will
withdraw his remark ”
If a visitor could leave the
Chamber with one of the
journalists he would find the
offices of the press-gallery.
There are about a dozen of them,
representing the major dailies all
over the Commonwealth.
The visitor would probably
see a few journalists seated on a
table in the corridor which runs
through the press-gallery. Listen-
ing to them talk he would find,
almost for certain, that it was
politics. He would hear them
speak of Cabinet Ministers by
their first-names.
In one of the near-by offices
the visitor might see the head
of a news-service seated with his
knee clasped in his hands look-
ing up at the ceiling and dictat-
ing a “think piece” to a girl
operating a teleprinter.
These heads-of-services are
their papers’ senior representa-
tives in Canberra. They are
expected to know the political
scene like the back of their
hands. They interpret politics
and are paid highly. “Think
piece” is their own term for their
interpretations. When they
occasionally have to handle more
mundane things than politics
they do it with distaste.
As the girl operating the tele-
printer strikes each key, on a
keyboard similar to a type-
writer’s, the letter she hits
registers hundreds of miles away
on a teleprinter in a newspaper-
office in one of the capital cities.
The machine she is using may
at the same time be punching
little holes in paper-tape. This
action places an exact copy of
what she is sending—say, to
Sydney—in a form of cold-
storage. Later she may feed the
taped story into another tele-
printer and send it off to Mel-
bourne or Adelaide, where each
letter in the story registers
instantaneously as the little holes
in the paper-tape pass between
the contacts.
In time most Canberra
journalists become competent
teleprinter-operators themselves.
This can be bad.
Some big weddings happen in
the A.C.T., bringing the women
social-writers like locusts from
the capitals. Weddings often
happen on a Saturday, when the
teleprinter-operators are rightly
having a day off. So the political
reporter might find himself
faced with one of his papers’
most favored social-writers who
“must get the story through,”
but who could no more use a
teleprinter than cook. He says
to her, “I’ll send it for you,” and
she smiles at him, and then goes
off to catch up with the
champagne at the reception. The
political reporter finds himself
typing on the teleprinter: “She
was lovely in magnolia
satin ” From the occasional
yelps from a near-by office he
knows that a colleague has
copped it, too.
When Parliament is in session
the top political men often get
data for their “think pieces” by
haunting the lobbies on the
centre floor of the three-story
Parliament House.
One of them can often be seen
in King’s Hall, leaning gently
on the glass-case around the
table which Queen Victoria once
used.
He claims it is a good spot.
It is on the Opposition side, so
he can spot the Labor men as
they move about in their
corridor. He is close to the
entrance of the Parliamentary
library, where both sides’
members go frequently. Being
in King’s Hall he can see
members meeting people or chat-
ting to'each other.
“They all come past sooner or
later,” he says.
When he sees the member he
wants, he greets him. They talk.
There may be a question or two,
but no note-taking; this is a
conversation. The member goes
off into the library, chuckling
at some joke the other made.
The reporter waits for someone
else he wants. Then later he
makes his way back up to his
office in the press-gallery.
He starts dictating, or typing:
“Canberra, Tuesday. Cabinet
has agreed to lift tariffs on ”
Or: “The split in the Labor
party widened today when ”
Or: “Liberal back-benchers
are making moves t 0.... ”
When he puts on his hat to
go home, at anywhere between
3 p.m. and 3 a.m., and gets into
his car (often supplied by the
office) the reporter probably
looks pensive. He could be
thinking of anything from the
framework of his next week’s
“column” to whether he should
go out mushrooming after that
shower of rain.
These senior journalists, who
stay in Canberra whether Parlia-
ment is sitting or not, live well.
Many of them have thumping
expense-allowances. To do their
job they must entertain. Often
they live in the most fashionable
spots, and there is quite a cluster
of them at Red Hill, dwelling in
beautiful homes among ' the
diplomats.
Some years ago a Mugga Way
journalist with a couple of boys
of his own took an interest in
the son of the Russian
Ambassador who lived next-
door.
Their boys played together.
Sometimes when the journalist
went camping up in the hills he
took the Russian boy with his
own. These taught the other the
ways of the bush, and soon he
was just as much at home in it
as they were. The Ambassador
is no longer at Canberra, but it
is interesting to speculate on the
contrast, for the Russian boy,
between the bush of Canberra,
and whatever the future may
hold for him. Diplomats’
children, of course, lead lives
bristling with contrasts. But
there could hardly be a more
extreme one than this. And
there, of course, you have some-
thing of the essence of Can-
berra, for such people as
journalists. It has bush, it is, in
many ways, provincial, and yet
there one rubs shoulders with the
great world.
The senior journalists usually
have their offsiders who also
lives in Canberra all the time.
As well, there is a floating
population of journalists who
arrive from the cities the night
before a Parliamentary session
starts, and who take-off again
the night it ends. One paper
alone employs eight men in
Canberra during the sessions.
Probably one of the best times
since Federation to have watched
the press-gallery in action was
the night of April 13, this year.
The House had adjourned for
dinner. One journalist, brows-
ing through the Parliamentary
library, met the Government
Draftsman, Mr. Ewens, reading
a magazine. He talked to Mr.
Ewens on how quiet things had
become, now that the Royal visit
was finished and that Parliament
would be rising in a few days.
Mr. Ewens, whose job it is to
make sure there are no loopholes
in legislation proposed by the
Government, and who sees most
business at its secret stage,
nodded to him. Yes, things were
quiet indeed. He wondered how
newspapers would manage to fill
their editions. Mr. Ewens would
make a good poker-player.
A few minutes before 8 p.m.
the bells started ringing and the
members filed in to the House of
Representatives. There were
more of the Government than is
usual so close after dinner.
There was a lot of air between
members of the Opposition
Their leader. Dr. Evatt, was
away in Sydney attending a
reunion of his old school.
But a close observer might
have noticed that Dr. Evatt’s
deputy, Mr. Calwell, looked
pale, and was reading a
document intently.
Somewhere out in the press-
gallery a head of a service was
pecking out his weekly political
column. Parliament would end
on a quiet note, he typed, and
then lit-up his pipe for further
inspiration.
In the House, at two minutes
past eight, Mr. Menzies rose to
his feet and began to make a
statement.
“It is my unpleasant duty, - ’
he began. The journalists who
had come in to hear him (what
Ming says is always news) were
thinking that someone had died.
In the second paragraph he
mentioned a Vladimir
Mikhailovich Petrov, and
“request for political asylum,”
Chairs went over. loumalists
jammed in the doors. Tele-
printer-operators were told to cut
off half-sent stories. It became:
“Urgent memo, news-editor ”
Within minutes the brief
messages were being read in
newspaper-offices in every city
in Australia. Before Mr.
Menzies had finished speaking,
carefully prepared front-pages
were being pulled to pieces.
Press-gallery men who service
the cable people worked quickly,
and the news was all around the
world.
When the original blaze died
a little and the journalists began
to think again, they thought of
“angles.”
Someone phoned Generalov,
the Russian Ambassador. It was
the first Generalov had heard
about it. He had not been listen-
ing to Parliament on the radio.
The Australian Government had
given him no warning. He was
shocked. He was angry. H#
admitted that Petrov had dis-
appeared while on a mission to
Sydney.
Meanwhile the news-editors
wanted to know what Petrov
looked like. They wanted photo-
graphs and had searched their
own files unsuccessfully. There
weren’t any photographs, but
every photographer in Canberra
was going through all his old
negatives of diplomatic cocktail-
parties and hoping for the best.
At last a photographer weighed-
in with the goods,, and sold prints
for fabulous prices until the
Government put a ban on their
publication for security reasons.
The ban was kept on for
weeks.
As the days passed the story
became more and more one of
“angles.” Someone interviewed
Mrs. Petrov. By the end of a
week a couple of journalists were
plying Petrov’s black Alsatian
dog with mince-meat in efforts
to capture it for their respective,
rival, journals. And at about
that stage the story died —as far
as the press-gallery was
immediately concerned and
things returned to normal.
What is normal? It would
be hard to define. One journalist
is reputed to have once ridden an
elephant up the main steps of
Parliament House, and another
to have fallen into the House of
Representatives during a debate.
And then there was the man who
held a very successful party for
a number of highly placed
people in a bus-shelter when his
plans to hold it in a hotel
suddenly went awry.
The journalists can be a
serious group when it comes to
serious business. Their opposi-
tion always has its big guns. In
most of Australia’s cities a daily-
newspaper journalist would have
two other newspapers to contend
with, but in Canberra he has
opponents from every paper in
every city.
As a matter of convenience
various papers have grouped
themselves in opposing chains
and have an interchange of news,
but individual opposition among
journalists is still strong.
Covering the political scene is
their main function, but they
have to keep their eyes peeled for
other things that happen in
Canberra.
One night at a hotel a
journalist sat down with his
usual dining companion, a
public-servant. The man, for a
change, was a bit taciturn, and
the journalist pumped him. Little
by little he found that an odd
thing had happened.
Had the journalist noticed all
the scaffolding in the (at that
time empty) Senate Chamber,
where they were painting and
decorating for the Royal visit?
He had? Well, he would have
noticed the floor of .planks which
had been laid on the top of the
scaffolding for the painters to
stand on so that they could touch-
up the roof. One of these
painters that day’ had lightly
brushed part of trie ceiling with
his fingertips and. a larga slab as
hard as concrete, had fallen
away and crashed on to the
boards.
That was all the public-servant
said, but he had seemed to hint
at more.
So that night, on his way up to
the gallery, the journalist paused
to look into the Senate Chamber.
He looked up at where the man
had said the slab of plaster had
come away.
He found it was directly above
the chair in which the Queen
would sit to open Parliament.. .
Another journalist who once
stayed at that same hotel made
a lasting impression. During a
trip to Sydney he became devoted
to archery, and he brought back
to Canberra a fine bow and a
quiver of arrows. In the yard
of the hotel one morning he set-
up a target against a heavy
cypress-hedge and fired arrow
after arrow, while his colleagues
marvelled at his marksmanship.
Then he missed the target, his
disappeared through the
hedge, atad a piercing scream
came from the other side.
. He had bagged the New Aus-
tralian yardman. What this new
citizen thought of being wounded
(in the shoulder) by an arrow in
clear sunlight in this nation’s
capital has not been recorded.
The press-gallerymen have no
rights as far as the position of the
press-gallery at Parliament
House is concerned. They’re
allowed on sufferance to use the
offices. It is a great convenience
to work so close to the centre of
the news. If the press-gallery-
men had offices at distances from
Parliament House, their almost
instantaneous news - sending
would break down completely.
Therefore, journalists are very
careful with any story which
might rebound.
Some time ago, a couple of
days after a lavish feast, a
journalist thought he saw a
person leaving Parliament House
with a strange brown-paper
parcel under one arm. The
journalist thought he detected the
face of a sucking-pig projecting
from one end of this parcel, and
a curly tail from the other.
He mentioned what he thought
he had seen to some colleagues
at a near-by counter. Their
ultimate finding was that it was
an interesting story, but one
which it would not be judicious
to write. So, until now, this
curious sidelight on life in the
political capital or this
momentary illusion, however
one prefers to regard it—has
remained quietly interred.
Although one writing cove did
suggest that a columnist might
get away with it in a par.:
“Canberra people are wonder-
ing where Mr. So-and-so col-
lected the nickname of Tom Tom
the Piper’s Son.”
If any in the press-gallery
need sympathy, they are the
shorthand-writers. Life can be
poisonously dull for them. They
have to sit through long-winded
debates, which can go on all
night. Gradually members dis-
appear, until there are only a few
each side of the house. Often
these are lying down on the
leather seats; sometimes they
snore. The honorable member
shuffles on his feet, speaking on,
playing out time.
The Senate at two-o’clock one
morning. The Senator speaking
suddenly somehow gets on the
subject of the press-gallery. He
begins paying it lavish compli-
ments, and those Senators awake
look with him in the direction of
his extended hand when he
waves it up at the gallery.
But no one is looking back at
the Senators. Not a soul. Hurt
murmuring; Senators frown.
Wait! A clutching hand
appears over the rail of the
gallery.
An unbelieving, sleepy face
follows it. The Senate smiles
again. The Senator on his feet
■ speaks with renewed confidence.
“The press-gallery ” And on,
|jand on.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOUTH-EAST ASIA
Malcolm MacDonald, lately
reappointed Commissioner-
General for Great Britain in
South-East Asia, is, in his own
words, “responsible for giving a
regional view to London, for
advising on regional policy, for
co-ordinating the views of the
various Ambassadors and the
policies of the various ‘colonial’
Administration in the territories
which are still partly under
British Government.”
His responsibilities “cover the
whole of South-East Asia, which
includes Burma, Thailand, the
three States of Indo-Chintf, the
Philippines, Malaya, -Singapore,
British Borneo and Indonesia.”
Interviewed by “U.S. News
and World Report” just after his
reappointment, MacDonald was
asked if he saw any chance of
“peace or stability” in South-
East Asia. His reply:
“If you call the ‘cold war’
peace—and if we continue in that
state —we shall have ‘peace.’ I
think it’s unlikely that the Com-
munists will try military aggres-
sion, during the next stage at any
rate, in South-East Asia. This is
mainly for two reasons: first,
they are afraid of bringing on
themselves a Third World War,
and they don’t want that;
secondly, and perhaps even more
important from their point of
view, they think that they can
get a lot of what they want in
South-East Asia without resort-
ing to military fighting.
“Having established them-
selves in North Vietnam, I think
they’ll try now to penetrate into
South Vietnam, into Laos, into
Cambodia, and then stretch out
from there into Burma, Thailand
and so onwards. And I think
they believe they can do it by
peaceful economic and political
penetration and conspiracy.
Therefore I think this cold-war
condition will go on. If you call
that peace, then there will be
peace.
“I think we’ve gained
tremendous advantages in some
ways, and we’ve lost positions in
other ways. I think it’s a very
hard-fought struggle. I think,
for instance, what we’ve gained
springs from our support of
Asian nationalism. You Ameri-
cans helped the Philippines, and
we British helped India,
Pakistan, Burma and Ceylon to
get their national liberty.
“Together we helped to per-
suade the Dutch to give Indo-
nesia its national liberty. As a
result we’ve , got a great deal of
sympathy from those peoples.
They don’t follow our policy or
agree with our policy in certain
matters, but they do regard us
as friends of their national
independence—much more than
they regard the Communists as
that. What we’ve gained is their
sympathy to our democratic
point of view rather than to the
Communist point of view.
“What we’ve lost is mainly in
Indo-China. There we didn't
succeed in getting the bulk of the
nationalists on our side, and now
part of the country has fallen
under the control of Com-
munists. Northern Vietnam,
which is the most vital strategic
area of Indo-China, has gone
that way. From there the Com-
munists can try to strike out
further.
“Our friends and we could not
have won the war just by fight-
ing. The fundamental reason for
the measure of defeat we’ve had
there was not military—it wasn’t
that we lost the military war. It
was that we lost the political
war. Concessions to Indo-China
nationalism were not made soon
enough. If they had been, the
nationalists would have kept free
from Communist domination.
‘To win the war, they had to
do two things at once. They had
to do the right political things
and, at the same time, the right
military things. On that basis
the war could have been won
any time up to the last year.”
Asked if America was
unpopular in South-East Asia
because of association with
“imperialist” Britain, Mac-
Donald said:
“I think that criticism is out
of date. I think that it might
have been true some years ago.
The Asians who wanted their
national freedom then and who
thought that they weren’t getting
it fast enough from Britain were
critical of America because they
thought that America at that
stage was supporting the British,
(It wasn’t true. The Americans
have been consistently in favor
of Asian nationalism. The
British gave it qualified support
before the war, but wholehearted
support after the war. They have
given national freedom to four
territories in which they had
responsibilities, and are progres-
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Globe-Democrat”
NOT BUILT FOR HANDSHAKES
sing steadily towards it in the
fifth —Malaya.
“As a consequence the British
now are very popular in Asia
and popular largely because they
have associated themselves so
much with Asian nationalism.
Therefore the Americans aren’t
unpopular today because they
appear to be associated with the
British —because the British are
popular.
“American policy is unpopular
partly because there’s a great
suspicion amongst the Asians
that the Americans want a Third
World War —a preventive war—
to stop the Communists from get-
ting further. And that suspicion
against the Americans has been
played upon, exploited by Com-
munist propagandists throughout
Asia. As you know, they always
talk about the Americans as
being the warmongers; and
many Asians have swallowed a
great deal of Communist propa-
ganda on this subject.
“It has been easy for the Com-
munists, who are completely
unscrupulous in their propa-
ganda, to say (of the atomic-
bomb tests), ‘Here is proof that
the Americans are preparing
themselves for a preventive war,’
We British are doing our utmost
to tell the Asian leaders that it is
Communist propaganda.
“If they [the Asians] could get
out of their minds this fear that
the Americans are going to start
a Third World War, then vast
numbers of Asians, educated and
uneducated, would give rein to
their other feeling about
America, whidbr is that she is a
wonderful friend who is doing a
tremendous lot to help free com-
munities all over the world to
enjoy better conditions of life.
That sentiment would be able
to express itself wholeheartedly.
At present the Asians have mixed
feelings about America.”
Questioned about Asian public
opinion, MacDonald added that
it “is usually the opinion of the
populations who live in cities,
large towns and other centres,
where there are newspapers,
radio, political activity and so
on. The Asian public opinion
quoted is often the opinion of
the politically conscious citizens
in those centres. The peasant
population, the agricultural
population, haven’t got anything
like the same chances to form an
opinion. They are often
apathetic. That’s why the Com-
munists have a chance to get at
them.
“The Communist minority gets
in among these masses of
apathetic peasantry, as well as
amongst the very poor in large
towns.
“They use the various tech-
niques of the cold war. They
send in their agents, their agents
talk propaganda —about land
and prosperity for the people.
These are not usually public
speakers in public meetings; but
men and women who go and
become teachers in the village
schools, perhaps, or engage in
similar occupations, and who
work through conversation and
ordinary talk.
“It is largely a word-of-mouth
campaign. It’s been going on for
15, 20 years or more. It
grows in volume from time to
time. At other times it has
receded, and then come back
again.
“Then -there is also the fear
which is created by the immense
Communist State to the north —
China —which tries to make out
that it’s irresistible, and creates
the impression that it will come
down into South-East Asia. The
timid sections of the population
don’t want to be on the wrong
side of something that is coming
up against them later; and so
they get talked into being
sympathetic and ready to com-
promise with Communism.”
Asked what counter-measures
were being taken in these areas,
MacDonald replied, “A great
many”:
“Counter-propaganda of an
effective nature —the spreading,
by people who are friendly to us,
of the opposite side of the story.
Partly what the Western
democracies stand for, what the
Eastern democracies stand for,
and how they will help to give
better economic conditions to the
people, and partly negative
propaganda, telling what happens
in Communist States.
“We must help the local Gov-
ernments to feed their people,
and to ensure for them comfort-
able economic and social condi-
tions. If Americans go in and
do it, or Frenchmen go in and
do it, or British go in and do
it —white faces, imperialists
they won’t accept it in the
same spirit as if their own Gov-
ernments create the conditions
which mean that they’ve got
plenty of food and a decent
standard of living. Then they are
not interested in Communist
propaganda. They don’t care to
hear that somebody is going to
give them fine economic condi-
tions, if they’re already satisfied
with what they’ve got.
“That is fundamental; it’s
terribly important that the
Asian Governments, with what-
ever assistance from outside is
necessary, shall be able to
provide enough food and decent
material living conditions for
their populations. That’s the
real answer to Communism.
“It doesn’t matter if the people
know that assistance is being
given by the United States and
other Western Powers —for
example, by the Powers who are
in the Colombo Plan, or by the
United Nations Organisation.
That helps; it is all very good.
It helps the ordinary Asian
people to realise that the
Americans are good people and
friends of theirs, that the British
are good people and friends of
theirs. But the aid should be
given through the Asian Govern-
ments in ways acceptable to
them.
“The population problem is
one of Asia’s worst problems.
The annual increase is enormous.
When you increase food-supplies
and other production all you’ve
done is survived on the present
levels of existence —you are left
with the additional population,
and the standard of living of
everyone remains about the
same.
“The only solution is a
measure of voluntary limitation
of the rate of increase of popula-
tion. A lot of Asian leaders are
in favor of birth-control, of
‘family - planning.’ But the
religions of some of the Asian
peoples are against that; and in
any case the facilities for spread-
ing educational instruction on
such matters to an illiterate popu-
lation are few and create a
problem.
“If the population continues
to grow at its present very high
rate, it may make economic con-
ditions precarious. It will help
Communism.”
Asked, finally, the chances of
resisting the advance of Com-
munism in South-East Asia,
MacDonald concluded:
“I think we’ve got a very hard
battle on our hands, but I believe
that so far it’s a balanced battle,
and if we all do the right things
we can stop the Communists
from getting further.”
"Courage and
Patience"
The following excerpts from a
news-conference given by Presi-
dent Eisenhower are described
by “New York Times” as “the
salient passages” of “the frankest
and firmest exposition of [U.S.]
Asia policy” that Ike has given
since taking office:
“The world is in an ideological
struggle, and we are on one side
and the Iron Curtain countries
are on the other.
“The great hope of mankind is
that we can find methods and
means of progressing a little bit,
even if by little steps, toward a
true peace, and that we do not
go progressively toward war.
“Now, on our side we must
make certain that our efforts to
promote peace are not inter-
preted as appeasement or any
purchase of immediate favor at
the cost of principle, but we must,
on the other hand, be steady and
refuse to be goaded into [unwise]
actions.
“To fit this incident [of the 13
Americans held by Peking] into
the global picture, let me remind
you, these prisoners have been
held by the Chinese for two
years, so their selection of a time
of announcement was, of course,
a deliberate act.
“Now, we must not forget
what the aims of Communism
have always been, announced by
themselves: to divide the free
world, to divide us among
ourselves as the strongest nation
of the free world, and, by divid-
ing, to confuse and eventually to
conquer, to attain through those
means world domination.
“Now, for us there are two
courses, and here I should like,
in a way, to talk a little bit
personally: In many ways the
easy course for a President, for
the Administration, is to adopt a
truculent, publicly bold, almost
insulting attitude,
“Now, I want to make quite
clear that when one accepts the
responsibilities of public office
he can no longer give expression
freely to such things; he has got
to think of the results. Now, that
would be the easy way for this
reason; those actions lead
toward war.
“Traditionally, if we get into
trouble that involves war the
nation closes ranks behind the
leader, the job to do becomes
simply understood: it is to win
the war. There is a real fervor
developed throughout the nation
that you can feel everywhere you
go. There is practically an
exhilaration about the affair.
“But I have also had the job
of writing letters of condolence
by the hundreds, by the
thousands, to bereaved mothers
and wives.
“Now, that is a very sobering
experience, and it means that if
we are going over to take such a
fateful decision as leads us one
step toward war, let us, by no
means, do it in response to our
human emotions of anger and
resentment, but let’s do it after
we have prayerfully considered
it and found, as [President
Woodrow] Wilson expressed it,
‘no other means of protecting
our rights.’
“Let us recognise that we owe
it to ourselves and to the world
to explore every possible peace-
able means of settling differences
before we even think of such a
thing as war.
“And the hard way is to have
the courage to be patient, tire-
lessly to seek out every single
avenue open to us in the hope
even finally of leading the other
side to a little better understand-
ing of the honesty of our
intentions.”
Uncle Sam Going
Quietly
“There is in America no urge
to go to war. Despite the world-
wide propaganda being spread
by the Soviets that Americans are
‘warmongers,’ there is not the
slightest basis of fact in such an
insinuation.”
Thus David Lawrence, editor
of “U.S. News and World
Report,” and, as though in
substantiation, “Manchester
Guardian” comments editorially
along much the same hues. “The
mistakes of American policy,” it
notes, “are trumpeted to the
world; the improvements are
not”:
“Lately, in a quiet way, Presi-
dent Eisenhower has shifted the
emphasis in a vital aspect of
American policy. He has vetoed
intervention at Quemoy, put a
firm brake on Chiang and
Syngman Rhee, and shown dis-
favor for the bluntly ‘tough’ line.
This is in marked contrast to the
American attitude in the early
spring. Then—a nightmare to
America’s allies—there seemed a
real risk that the United States
might by inadvertence cause a
world war.
“What has caused the change?
Four reasons may be given.
First, the commonsense of
people in the United States. At
the time of Dien Bien Phu there
was a notable lack of enthusiasm
for any American commitment.
People had had enough of
Korea and did not want any part
in another Asian war unless it
was unavoidable. The Senate
was sensitive to public feeling,
and the Administration, fearing


you con put 700 lb. of meat
k ; ~? j g
in this quick-freezer.
///////
There are many times when you have meal or supplies
in quantity or when reliable food preservation over a
long period could be of great assistance to you. Stock
might be at its best for the table . . . an abundance
of vegetables . . . Spring, for killing poultry at its
best. All are occasions when you really appreciate a
Flashfreeze quick-freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you cae
store food in bulk at these times and keep it safely,
till needed. For'instance, fresh beef, lamb, mutton,
pork, veal, poultry, butter, fruit, vegetables, baked bread
and fruit cake can all be stored in a Flashfreeze
for as long as 12 months without deterioration in
flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is the
convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand
because these units are large, the one illustrated at
left having a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding
700 lb. of meat or an equivalent quantity of vegetables
or other food stuffs. All Flashfreeze models at
least 2 comportments for long storage quick-freezing.
However, some models have an additional section for
refrigeration for your normal day to day needs—a
combination of the best in quick-freezing and
refrigeration.
Other Flash-freezers include;
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
IBj cu. feet of freezing space,
cu. feet of refrigeration.
PR 14. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination,
Io£ cu. feet of freezing space, cu. feet
of refrigeration.
PI2. Freezer capacity 12 cu. feet.
Publicity Manager,
Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd.,
, Box 1587, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
I would be pleased to receive full inform-
ation about Flashfreeze.
NAME
ADDRESS.
that it might not secure Senate
approval, backed away from the
action towards which it had been
moving.
“A second reason was General
Ridgway’s advice. As Army
Chief-of-Staff he is said to have
fought strongly in the National
Security Council against
American involvement in Indo-
China or at Quemoy. He saw
clearly that America would be
drawn in deeply, that its Army
was inadequate, and that a war
in Asia would be disastrous.
“A third reason is President
Eisenhower’s own inclination.
Although a soldier by profes-
sion, he is appalled by war. He
is convinced that he must try to
keep his country out of it.
“Fourth, there was Sir Winston
Churchill. As he told the House
of Commons, he went to see
President Eisenhower last
summer because of what he had
read about the hydrogen-bomb.
At one point in the Washington
meetings he talked privately with
the President alone. What was
said is unknown. But it seems
possible that he impressed on the
President—if any impressing was
needed—the terrible nature of
atomic war and the need to act
with the utmost care. It seems
very probable that Sir Winston’s
advice to an old friend has
helped to reinforce the Presi-
dent’s strong personal conviction.
“This change of emphasis and
manner should be greeted with
relief and thankfulness by
America’s allies. They want the
United States to be armed,
strong and vigilant; but they
want that strength to be used
with care, caution and a recog-
nition that the world’s problems
are too complex to be solved in
a flash.”
Three on Moscow
on MOSCOW
Seven years ago, George F.
Kennan, U.S. foreign-affairs
expert, proposed that a U.S.
policy of “firm containment”
towards the Soviet would
“promote tendencies which must
eventually find their outlet in
either the break-up or the gradual
mellowing of Soviet power,”
Recalling Kennan's proposal,
Harrison E. Salisbury comments
in “New York Times”:
“No one would suggest that
the seven years in which the
United States has followed
toward Russia, in general, a
policy of containment has pro-
duced a ‘break-up’ of Soviet
power. But a question that has
been pushing increasingly to the
fore in recent weeks is whether
we are now beginning to observe
the first signs of the ‘gradual
mellowing’ which Kennan
believed would result from our
policy of confronting the
Russians ‘with unalterable
counter-force at every point
where they show signs of
encroaching upon the interests of
a peaceful and stable world.’
“Or, on the other hand, are
we merely witnessing one more
tactical twist in the Soviet line?
“The most suspicious circum-
stance about the current line of
‘sweet reasonableness’ from
Moscow is the fact that Russia
has a very great stake in sowing
dissension in the West just at this
time. It is almost 11-o’clock on
the schedule for ratification of
the agreements linking West
Germany to the Western defence
system.
“If there is one project
to which Russia has demon-
strated that she is unalterably
opposed and willing to pay a
considerable price to balk it is
that of integration of West
German forces into the European
defence system.
“While the odds certainly are
strongly stacked against the
success of any such Soviet
manoeuvre in this eleventh-hour,
such considerations have never
in the past deterred the Russians
from launching diplomatic
manoeuvres.
“Soviet emphasis on the ease-
ment of East-West tension in
general has become so fixed that
there seems little doubt Moscow
actually does desire a relaxation
in world relations. The key
question, however, is why she
wants it. In the past such
motivations as a desire for a
breathing-space or a desire to
cause the West to drop its guard
have seemed to be paramount.
“Certainly, it is too soon to
know whether we are confronted
with a deep Soviet change rather
than a mere surface tactic. And
it Ts true that Soviet policy has
always jibbed and tacked with
the international winds, retaining
the same ultimate goal regardless
of temporary shifts.
“Yet long-term, ‘over-the-
horizon’ objectives ought not be
confused with those practical
considerations which may make
life on the same planet for two
great contradictory systems
possible for an indefinite period
of time. For it should not be
forgotten that the so-called ‘con-
tainment policy’was not an end
in itself. It was designed to
produce specific changes in
Russian policy and to modify
that policy sufficiently so that
Americans and Russians could
find a way of existing without
mutually blowing each other, and
their friends as well, off the
map.”
There is, possibly, a note of
cautious optimism about the
foregoing observations. Two
other able commentators,
appraising the same signs and
portents, are not quite so
hopeful.
Writing in “Foreign Affairs,”
Sir Roger Makins, British
Ambassador to the U.S., also
comments on this “superficial
relaxation of tension between the
Communist world and the free
world”:
“What particular problems
does this development pose for
the West? First of all, it will
be more difficult to hold the
Western nations together now
that the extreme pressure of
rigid Stalinism has been some-
what abated. The strains are
greatest in the Far East, and for
two reasons. Actual fighting has
been taking place in the area of
the direct Chinese urge for
expansion. Secondly, the
attitudes of the Western Powers
are here less closely aligned and
their policies therefore less
closely co-ordinated than else-
where,
“Then in many parts of the
world we see the re-emergence
of old patterns which were sub-
—Paris “Franc-Tireur’"
DISCORDANT NOTE
merged by the armed struggle
against the Fascist Powers and
later by the rallying of the free
world against Communism. This
can be broadly described as a
tendency of nationalism and
neutralism to reassert themselves.
“Underneath the post-war
democratic regimes in Germany,
in Italy, in Japan, there are
trends, not yet perhaps of great
proportion, back to old political
forms and habits; and this has
stimulated the opposite trends in
other Western countries —in rela-
tion, for example, to the rearma-
ment of Germany.
“It would be going too far
to ascribe the recrudescence of
these patterns of political thought
and behavior, national and inter-
national, to the change in Soviet
diplomatic tactics. They corres-
pond to deep-seated emotional
attitudes, and would no doubt
have b£en present in any case.
But their re-emergence may well
have been stimulated and
accelerated by the relaxation of
international tension, and since
they make for dissension between
us, they are an ever-present
danger to the cohesion of the
West.”
The third commentator, C. L.
Sulzberger, of “New York
Times,” has no doubts about the
purpose behind Moscow’s com-
parative affability:
“Co-existence, if it is to
become serious and successful,
inevitably means reduction in
tensions. This in turn produces
relaxation of those dynamic
pressures that helped unify the
free world in the face of threats.
The new rulers of Moscow have
discovered that a gentler policy
can pay dividends.
“While free Europe endeavors
to remain strong, the old ghost
of neutralism is being prodded
by the Kremlin. It remains a
vital if not dominant force in
West Germany, where it is art-
fully confused with yearning for
unification. It has been revived
in France, where various factions
still seek to delay ratification of
the agreements on Bonn’s
rearming.
“The affable and flexible
approach the Russians have
developed is paying dividends.
When the monolith is camou-
flaged with a smile it no longer
appears so threatening to its
neighbors. As a result, it is more
difficult, and perhaps it will be
more expensive, for the United
States to help some countries to
remain neighbors of the Soviet
bloc—neighbors, not members.”
"This Common Belief"
A tribute from London
“Twentieth Century”:
“Musing aloud at a semi-
private gathering a few months
ago, Sir Winston said that the
things which unite him with Mr.
Attlee are more important far
than those which divide them.
“It is not only personal
association with Labor and the
charity of age which have altered
Sir Winston’s judgments. The
Conservative conscience was as
deeply shocked when the forces
of the Right tore down
democracy in Germany, Italy
and Spain as Labor’s was by the
bloody and tyrannous develop-
ment of Stalin’s Socialism. Mr.
Attlee’s sombre reflections on
the Russian Revolution are
matched by Sir Winston’s
orations on the rights of man.
“It is this common belief, this
revived fervor for democracy,
which enabled Britain to fight as
an undivided nation and
preserves its unity today whether
Mr. Attlee or Sir Winston is her
Majesty’s First Minister.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Personal Touch
Apart from the need for modern
psychological aids to “sweeten the rela-
tionship” between employer and employee
(B. 24/11/’54), a little more old-fashioned
common courtesy is called for in many
cases.
A speech of thanks for excellent ser-
vice rendered to the firm in the past 20
years, and a handsome presentation, did
little towards erasing the hurt suffered
by a retiring factory-hand when the
employer had to refer to his notes every
time he tried to recall the man’s name.
The significance was not lost on the other
employees present, either.
Such occurrences only intensify con-
tempt for the boss, pushing him a little
further away from the men. Even the
presence of a battery of trained social-
workers couldn’t have helped that situa-
tion, unless, of course, the employer had
consulted them earlier on his own
account.
Whatever other aids are employed for
the benefit of the wage-earner, the per-
sonal touch (and I don’t mean personal
help given in an impersonal kind of way)
can always be relied upon to improve
relationships.— Clyde (Q.).
Suicide of Cricket?
There were several no-balls in “G.
Elburg’s” deliveries (B. 15/12/’54).
First, I doubt whether there’s much
difference between Australian and British
newspapers in their approach to cricket.
The Australian press, too, at times treats
sporting events as if an Australian loss
must be regarded as a dire national
tragedy.
And just as big an “army” of “war-
correspondents” goes over to England
when Australia tours, and some of their
reports are just as “anxious” and
“gloomy.” Irresponsible, too, if one
recalls the cables sent back in 1953
magnifying actions out of all proportion
to their importance.
Anyway, “G.E.” is inconsistent. Aus-
tralians don’t take their cricket “with
deadly seriousness,” he says, then goes
on to accuse the press of having taken
the “light-hearted spirit” out of the game
here.
If cricket is less of a spectacle nowa-
days, it’s not altogether fair to blame the
“ yair—this is Charlie's day off."
experts and critics for it. As Miller and
Whitington point out in Bumper, it’s
most unlikely the critic-writer deliberately
sets out to kill cricket, which is, after
all, the game he lives by.
As for stonewalling, what makes
“G.E.” think it’s peculiar to the present?
What of Alec Bannerman (brother of
Charles, who made the first Test-century)?
Alec, in a Test in 1891-92, took hours
to make 91—and was cheered to the
echo on each of the three days he batted!
Qr Charlie Kelleway, who in the
1920-21 Test at Adelaide also batted
longer than seven hours for 147? A
story of Kelleway is that, when he was
just on 80 at one tea-adjournment, he
told a team-mate, who said he should get
his century before stumps, not to “make
it too tough.”
Anyway, there is stonewalling and
stonewalling: Bailey playing a fighting,
rearguard Test-innings earns our admira-
tion ; Bailey blocking endlessly on the
opening day of the recent M.C.C.-
Victoria game, with the foundations of
the innings laid, brought forth the just
indignation of the crowd. But big-
hitting is not the end-all of cricket; does
“G.E.” want the bowler to be nothing
but a chopping-block for the batsman?
If so, the bowlers’ art will surely decline.
Present-day players can be light-
hearted, even in Tests. Miller at the
most serious point of a Test is capable of
devilment. Compton, too, in the drawn
Adelaide Test in 1946-47, when he made
a century in each innings, at one time
scampered well down the pitch with a
perky grin for no reason but sheer high-
spirits—and that while the bowler was
actually running-up. At the time Comp-
ton was the last mainstay of an English
team then facing defeat.
Was there really “boredom” here at
Australia’s supremacy? Or did the
sympathy for visiting sides merely reflect
Australian sportsmanship and traditional
regard for the underdog? The cricket-
follower still looked for an Australian
win in the series.
There’s no more of a “new-ball” or
“opening-batsman” fetish now than in
other days. Always in both roles there
have been the same, regular men, almost
always, you can bet, the best men avail-
able for the jobs—instance the batting
combinations Alec Bannerman and
Massie or Lyons, Trumper and Duff,
Woodfull and Ponsford, Brown and
Fingleton; and the bowling pairs,
Spofforth and Boyle, Turner and Ferris,
Gregory and McDonald.
Declining attendances aren’t related to
the quality of the cricket offered. It’s
simply a case of more counter-attractions,
such as cars, surfing, etc. Still, a lot
could be done to brighten-up cricket-
matches and bring back the crowds with-
out interfering with the cricket. Those
long, tedious intervals and the wait
before play begins could be filled-in with
music or vaudeville-acts. And more
consideration must be given patrons—
the crowd on the Saturday at the M.C.C.-
Victoria match were justly incensed at
seeing only half a dozen balls bowled
(if they got there at lunch) before a
shower stopped play, and then being
given no explanation for the later lack
of play (due mainly to inefficient cover-
ing of the wicket),
There’s just as much interest in cricket
today as ever—and it’s far from mori-
bund. When the Tests are on “What’s
the score?” is still heard throughout the
land. — Mid-on (N.S.W.).
Cricket-reporting, like most sport-
reporting today, is far brighter, far
lighter and far more pleasant reading than
the drab abundance of words which char-
acterised the business in the ’thirties and
probably years before that.
Today, in sport, personalities make the
news more than the team. Compton and
a few of the visiting Englishmen made
the news recently when they jumped over
the M.C.G. gate because their ticket was
inside and the gatekeeper would not let
them through. It made news and made
“Have you read any good palms lately , dear ?”
good reading because these players did
something which the older players never'
dreamed of doing. People liked reading
about it.
Most Australian dailies ran the story
of Johnson’s injury (which prevented him
from captaining in the second Test) as a
front-page lead-story. Why? Because the
public likes this type of writing.
And the same goes for reporting of the
big matches. The three-column detailed
report (almost over-by-over) of a day’s
cricket is not wanted by present-day
newspaper-readers. They want bright
reporting of personalities and what they
are doing. If John Bull hits the first ball
to silly-mid-on, the second to the bound-
ary and stonewalls the rest of the over
that’s not cricket-news today. But if J.B.
appeals to the umpire against bumpers
that’s news. And if he carelessly runs
himself out at 99, that, too, is news. But
a ball-for-ball description of his 99,
finishing with “At 99 he was run-out
when he misjudged his run,” won’t sell
papers.
Much the same goes for broadcasting.
The serious ball-for-ball description with-
out any lighthearted remarks is not
wanted. Charles Fortune has introduced
a lightness into cricket-broadcasting which
has gone over very well in Australia and
England. Only recently, when the Eng-
lishmen were playing Victoria, Fortune
began asking his fellow-commentators
whether the duck flying overhead would
appeal to them for their Christmas-
dinner. The discussion on the duck
(which later proved to be a small crane)
occupied all of one over. Old diehards
criticised Fortune. “Stick to cricket” they
wrote in letters to the dailies. But the
impromptu discussion was well received,
judging by general Melbourne comment.
“G. Elburg” is right—cricket is going
through a change. The centuries before
lunch are a thing of the past. The once-
frequent 15 to 20 runs off one over are
but memories. Why? Because the bat is
no longer master in the great game.
Instead, the bowlers have become so
accurate that they are in control of the
game today. And the new-ball fear is
no fallacy. It does get wickets, and
quickly.
I can’t claim more than 20 years’ in-
terest in cricket, but I can remember the
centuries-before-iunch and the hard hit-
ting, the almost monotonous fours and
quick scoring. I still get as much plea-
sure today as then. Watching the great
fight between the bowler and the bat
(which we were denied in the days of the
big scores) is to me one of the thrills
of modern cricket. That, and light-
hearted commentaries over the air, and
personality cricket-reporting, are keeping
the game well and truly alive. — Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.),
Bulk Sugar
India will lose-out when bulk-
handling of raw sugar prevails at
Queensland ports two years hence.
There was a time when India sold its
jute-bags for sugar at Is. 6d. each. Fol-
lowing the general trend of prices, the
bags are now ss. 6d. each, although the
Indian workers don’t appear to be better
fed or better clothed.
At 14 bags to the ton, on the present
estimated sugar-yield of 1,350,000 tons,
India’s cut is £5,200,000.
Incidentally, with bulk-handling, ships
will enter port in the morning, load 8000
tons of sugar and leave next day, instead
of taking eight days as at present.
Mackay (Q.), for instance, will require
200 fewer watersiders Boro-Belle (Q.).
Diesels and Coal
who suggests pulverised coal
as a practical alternative fuel for diesel
cycle-iocomotive-power (B. 1/12/’54), is
apparently unaware of at least one tough
obstacle —ash.
Disregarding the complex mechanical
problems involved in feeding to the cylin-
ders the accurate quantity of the pre-
pared fuel (as fine as flour and free,
anhydrous and unimpacted), the incom-
bustible residue would finish a heavy
working engine in short order.
Further, cylinders would be unduly
large for a given shaft-horsepower.
Coal suitable for such a purpose would
contain at least four per cent, to seven
per cent, of incombustible material con-
sisting mainly of silicates and traces of
metallic oxides. This is the grey dust
that normally falls through the firebars
or, if exposed to high temperature, fuses
into clinker.
In other words, for every 100 tons of
fuel consumed in such an engine, four to
seven tons of this stuff would have to be
disposed of. The bulk would doubtless
go out in the exhaust-gases, but some
would adhere to the cylinder walls, where,
in combination with the wall lubricant,
it would smartly constitute a first-class
grinding-compound. Originally the water-
borne muds and sands of the primeval
peat-beds, this residue is very different
from the soft carbon lampblack result-
ing from partial combustion of liquid-fuel
and almost a lubricant in itself.
A gas-fired turbine using pulverised
fuel would be dead easy, efficient and
highly desirable as an economical prime
mover on today’s knowledge and prac-
tice, particularly as the exhaust could be
further used for steam-raising. But in
such an engine the rotor-blades would be
subjected to the equivalent of a white-
hot sand-blast.
The economics of such a proposal are
also of some significance.
One ton of fuel-oil contains the heat-
energy of approximately one and half ton
of such coal. A diesel-electric locomo-
tive would transmit to the rail possibly
30 per cent, of the original energy in the
fuel, and it is here the good old steam-
loco falls down badly. It probably can’t
do much better than about seven per
cent.
Lacking condensers and requiring a
high exhaust-pressure to create draught,
much of the heat that would otherwise
be convertible into power just has to
go out the funnel. For every 100 tons
sweated through the fire-door on the end
of a shovel, only about seven tons is of
effective worth.
There are good uses for such a valu-
able, diminishing national asset, but its
use as fuel for internal-combustion pur-
poses is not one of them. —M. L. M.
(N.S.W.).


(iir Beef
Glenroy’s air-beef in W.A. was more
than an interesting experiment (B.
15/ 12/’54). It proved beyond doubt that,
with a bit of enterprise and more co-
operation by overseas buyers of our
northern beef, the flying of frozen-beef
to a seaport could bring new life to the
industry—if only it could be developed
further.
When British farmer, banker and
geographist Lord Rennell of Rodd was
here last year he said that there appeared
no reason to him why the air-beef idea
could not be extended from the Gulf-
country right through to the areas west of
Wyndham. Most important, according
to this British expert, was to have the
killing-centres strategically located where
they would serve the widest possible
area, and to have them not more than
200 miles from a port.
Of course his plan would mean a Tew
more ports along the northern coast, but,
as he pointed out, one ship could make
the run, collecting the beef and sailing
direct to England.
Glenroy did not pay its way because it
was not big enough. It was never meant
to pay its way; only to prove that it was
an economic possibility if developed on a
greater scale.
To me, Lord Rennell’s proposition is
perhaps one of the boldest, yet soundest,
ever submitted to develop our northern
cattle-industry. The droving of cattle
across the Centre would soon fade into
history if only some company could
gather the capital to exploit the lessons
of Glenroy.— Rothjay (Vic.).
The Boomerang
“Tos” (B. 8/12/’54) quotes a reference
from The Iliad to Polypoetes throwing
a boomerang, and adds “Whether the
herdsmen of Ancient Greece used the
same weapons as our abos is a nice
point.”
It is indeed. As a lifelong student of
the Phoenicians, I’d say that these first
sea-people were in Australia somewhere
between 5000 and 7000 years ago.
Petrie, the archaeologist, tells of pictures
of the boomerang found in the tombs of
the Pharaohs of the first dynasty (3200-
2850 b.c.) and of a life-sized painting of
what might be an Australian abo. The
hair-do and the general characteristics
are those to be found among the
aborigines in the north of Australia even
today. I have travelled over a good part
of the “uncivilised” world and have
found the only people to fit the picture
are our own aborigines.
We first hear of the sea-people living
on islands in the gulf of Persia. The
islands, according to Herodotus, were
called Eradus, Sidon and Tyre, after
which the Phoenicians named the three
cities of Phoenicia. Probably driven out
by the Sumerians or the Elamites, they
settled on an island off the Horn of
Africa—the Land of Punt. From there,
after trading with the backward peoples
of Egypt, under Menes, they invaded,
conquered and united Upper and Lower
Egypt and established the Pharaonic first
dynasty. From there they conquered
"Your family is scattered all over the country? My goodness, ain't
those motor-cars awful!”
or colonised Crete, Cyprus, Phoenicia
and, later, Etruria; they established
trading-posts in Greece, Troy, Spain,
France, England, Ireland, Scotland and
Wales, and even further afield.
So if the Greeks used the boomerang
they could have got it from the
Phoenicians; a picture of a group of
Phoenicians in one of the tombs of the
Pharaohs shows them armed with it,
among other weapons.
To the east, these same sea-people were
trading for millennia with India and
Ceylon. And, strangely enough, the
headgear on State occasions of the
Japanese Emperors always has been the
same as that worn by the conqueror of
Egypt, Menes. I don’t mean the double-
Crown of Upper and Lower Egypt, but
the hat used by Menes on other than State
occasions—the hat of religious and
judiciary significance.
A superior people, comparatively few
in number and far-flung, the Phoenicians
kept the secret of their discoveries to
themselves. And to keep other people
from following them, after learning the
art of shipbuilding from them, they told
fantastic and horrific tales of the perils
certain to be encountered. I have no
doubt that the horrors Odysseus had to
face, as told by Homer, are based on
these tales.
Herodotus, in his Histories, tells of the
Phoenicians sailing far west of India to a
dry land, where the sun was hot, in search
of gold. Inhabiting this fearsome region
were bull-ants as large as tigers, and so
terrible was their bite that the Phoenicians
had to remain hidden until the heat of
midday drove the ants into their holes,
to remain there until the cool of the
evening. During this time the gold was
collected and stored on the sea-people’s
ships.
It’s my conclusion that this gold-
producing country of the ants was North
Australia, and that the Phoenicians left
the boomerang behind them. — Pop
(S.A.).
Elder Statesmen
A means whereby older statesmen could
still render service to Australia without
having to face the strain of periodical
election would be to let them sit in the
Senate and take part in debates without
voting. The right could be open to mem-
bers of either Federal House with 30
years’ continuous service, to all former
Commonwealth Ministers not holding
seats in any Parliament, to former State
Premiers no longer in active public life,
to retired High Court and State Supreme
Court judges, and to retired Federal and
State Auditors-General.
Australians would thus be assured of
hearing the views, on all great public
questions, of men ripe in experience of
public life, who could speak their minds
without fear of injuring their political
futures.
Even if the views of the elder statesmen
did not appreciably influence Senate
debates, they might well be of import-
ance in determining the attitude taken to
various national questions by a large
section of the electorate. — Morris the
Tinker (N.S.W.).
Bank-managers
I nominate bank-managers as the most
versatile of our workers. The professional
man, as rule, specialises, and the trades-
man has only to know his own particular
craft, but the bank-manager is truly a
jack-of-all-trades.
If in the country he must have a good
working-knowledge of the different classes
of primary production. He must be well
versed in values, both town and rural, and
be able to submit to his head-office
estimates of value of properties ranging
from large sheep- or cattle-stations down
to houses, flats, shops or offices,
The b.-m. must be a good judge of char-
acter, bearing in mind that some advances
are better made to men with no tangible
security than to others with all the
security in the world. He must be able
to control his staff and enlist suitable
recruits to his bank’s service. He must
be tactful and often a sort of father-con-
fessor to all. He must be able to com-
pete with his opposition and hold the
business his branch already has, whatever
his personal opinion may be of his cus-
tomers.
He must have a good knowledge of the
Bills of Exchange Act, Local Government
Act, Stamps Act, Administration and
Probate Act and a few others which all
affect his business. He must belong to
various clubs, be a good mixer and
always ready to dip into his own pocket
for the never-ending appeals with which
he is confronted. He must drink with
some and not with others, and when help
is not available, as is often the case, he
must be prepared to clean the office and
sweep the footpath in front of his bank,
After spending years in, say, a wheat-
"He takes a real pride in the place—uses reams of emery-paper
district, a b.-m. must be prepared for
transfer to, say, a sugar- or mining-dis-
trict, with its own particular problems,
or an industrial area. He may even find
himself transferred from a country town
to the heart of some city.
In the country his wife is expected to
do her part on the social side and in her
spare time look after the residential part
of the bank, usually large enough to
accommodate a platoon of infantry.
Taking it by and large, the b.-m. earns
his salary. —Harry the Horse (Vic.).
Points of View
A somewhat diffident cove with mild
blue eyes and a wondering expression
blew into our office muttering something
about having come out of a far bend on
the Darling and could we tell him the
best way to find a bit of excitement.
That was on a Wednesday.
We gave him a Sydney morning-news-
paper to keep him quiet while we looked
round for somebody to assist him.
After about half an hour we came back.
The diffident cove was missing, but he’d
left the paper behind, and pinned to it
was a pencilled summary of what he’d
read:—
Paper is having squabble with the
Government. Price-fixing lifted from 37
items, including fencing-wire. Somebody
named Johnson will miss a test of some
kind. There is a sectarian row in the
A. Cricketers without tickets jump
over turnstiles. A watchman aged 92 likes
his work. Chicago judge says artificial
insemination is adultery. A, Eden hates
cocktail-parties. British Government
annoyed because a Mr. Nutting said what
he thought. Family of six suicides in Tokio.
Gynaecologist goes crook about Hollywood
and dress emphasising the female bosom.
B. ignores flood of protests over TV
play showing bureaucracy run mad. Dis-
sected body is found in copper. Pig-breeder
S! S % d ZI^ e iZ
Trains collide in Queensland. Paper says
“Mystery of beer-drought unsolved.”
Politician says convicted s.p. men are
decent people and resent being hauled
before the courts like criminals.” Police
to march in road-safety procession. More
about the Petrov Commission. Legal lights
want Commonwealth Constitution amended.
Correspondent says Australian redheads
make the best wives. Four pages of sport.
On Saturday we received the following
telegram:
Tilpa, Darling River, RS.W
he’d be in from Bootra Christmas-
fjmp with 3.11 the news stor>
stop Wred you
one pound have drink on me. —
0 T (N.S.W.).
U
.
Pans
“That very dingy and second-rate
metropolis, Paris”—Red Page (B.
24/11/’54).
1 wonder in what circumstances the
Red Page knew Paris? It could not
have been when the chestnuts were in
bloom along the Boulevards or up the
magnificent sweep of the Champs
Elysees from the Place de la Concorde.
The Place de I’Opera is not dingy.
with the Opera House at your back, the
Rue de la Paix and Avenue de 1 Opera
before you, the tree-lined boulevards on
either hand. The Madeleine church is
not “dingy,” with the gay colors of the
flower-market under its eastern flank ;
nor the glorious stained-glass windows
of the Sainte Chapelle ; nor the church
of Sacre Coeur on the heights of Mont-
martre, glimpsed so often like a back-
drop at the far end of the streets climbing
the mount—much as you get unexpected
glimpses of Sydney’s bridge between
buildings.
Paris has its slums—the tough areas in
the north-east quarter beyond the Gare
de TEst, for instance—but what metro-
polis has not? The tall apartment-
buildings in which so much of Paris lives
are no t S o “dingy” as, say, London’s
Bermondsey, or Sydney’s Redfern seen
f rom a country mail-train crawling into
Central in the half-gloom of a winter’s
eady mor ning. Paris has nO “smog” to
begrime the facades of its many
imposing buildings.
Perhaps the Red Page visited Paris
soon after the war and found the people
“dingy.” So did I. Its women had lost
their proverbial “chic” ; they lacked the
sparkle of our Australian girls. Then I
remembered the Occupation—in many
streets tablets, with flowers laid before
them, marked the martyrdom of mem-
bers of the Resistance. I held Pans
excused,
I hold no brief for French economic
policies. There was, when I was last in
Paris, no equitable distribution of goods
by rationing. If you had money you
could buy anything; otherwise you
went without. The rich appeared too
rich, the poor too poor. And French
government is a tragicomedy and a
menace to the safety of Europe,
. „ - . „ ond
But Pans is not a very dingy aud
second-rate metropolis.”— HlST (N.S.W.).
a a cl;_
™ liarc c "
It has always been the dream of the
Antarctic Division to have its own ship
17/10/ ’54). Naval architects had the
} : 1 , ' , ~ , _
job in hand, but in 1952 the plan was
shelved, probably for Budget reasons,
xhe ship was to have been fitted with
everything needed for Antarctic work-
powerful dicscl-engincs, extra-strong null,
plenty of stowage and comfortable
accommodation, adequate laboratory-
, ’ , i,
space and even a dark-ioom.
An Antarctic ship is a sound proposi-
don from nearly every angle. Apart from
. ~ ~ J . . .
landings on the continent at Mawson and
other places in the years to come, there
is oceanographic research. A great deal
of work needs to be done in the Southern
?t could of considerable
?rr ce
Biologists think that if they could get
definite information on the distribution
of plankton, particularly krill, in the
Southern Ocean each year they could
with reasonable accuracy forecast whale-
populations. That’s important.
Since the ship would be used for
carrying expeditions for only about four
months each year, and probably would be
prevented by bad weather from doing
oceanographic research for another four,
why not use it as a weather-station as
well? Between Heard Island and Mac-
quarie there is an ocean-and-meteorologi-
cal desert. Reports from this area during
the winter months would be valuable. —
V. J. H. (W.A.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
rrHE article by E. O. Schlunke
on “Conservation Problems”
(B. 8/12/’54) is undoubtedly a
sincere attempt to suggest
reasons why a large number of
landholders may have been slow
to tackle the erosion problem on
their properties. Yet I feel that
he has taken only half of the
picture and described the whole
scene in terms of what he finds
in that half.
Mr. Schlunke’s views can
correctly be applied to many
farmers and graziers who have
not yet undertaken soil-conserva-
tion measures on their properties.
In some cases the reason is ignor-
ance, in others apathy; the
farmer may be already fully
occupied with the farm routine
or may be unwilling to thrust
economies on to his family for
the sake of diverting money for
conservation work.
There is a great deal, also, in
what Mr. Schlunke has said
about the general moral outlook
of the community. But it is
nevertheless a fact that thousands
of farmers have undertaken soil-
conservation work and thousands
more intend to do so, including
those who are at present waiting
their turn for assistance from
Soil Conservation Service with
heavy plant. There is a stage of
consideration and inaction pre-
ceding decision which is neither
ignorance nor apathy, and many
landholders, rightly or wrongly,
are still in this stage.
The Soil Conservation Service
is fully aware of the need for a
continuous educational pro-
gramme and already has done a
great deal in this regard. With
all the helpful publicity which
has been given in recent years in
the press and over the radio to
soil-erosion and its control,
stemming in the main from the
numerous publications and
articles issued by the Soil Con-
servation Service, I doubt
whether a very high percentage
of the farming community could
still be unaware of the nature of
soil-erosion and its potential
destructiveness.
In fact, the post-war campaign
to create a public awareness of
the dangers of soil-erosion has
been so widespread that even our
schoolchildren can now write
convincing essays on the subject.
The assistance of the press and
radio organisations has been a
very big factor in the rapid
spread of knowledge of soil-
conservation work. This co-
operation is greatly appreciated
by officers of my department and
myself.
Reinforcing all this written
educational publicity has been
the extension work —both by
education and by practical ex-
ample—carried out by the Soil
Conservation Service’s 100
technical-officers operating from
55 country centres throughout
N.S.W. The S.C. Service’s 150
major demonstrations and the
3700 properties on which work
has been done, both spread
widely throughout the State, are
now testimony to the efficacy of
soil-conservation measures.
The S.C. Service’s “Journal”
goes to 9000 addressees, princi-
pally New South Wales land-
holders, each quarter, and many
thousands of copies of two splen-
did little booklets — Soil Con-
servation for Greater Production
and Soil Conservation Pays Divi-
dends —outlining the broad
principles of soil-conservation,
have been distributed to inquirers
throughout the State. The S.C.
Service is now working on the
production of a series of book-
lets on wise land-use and reme-
dial measures within the capacity
of the farmer’s own efforts and
equipment.
The S.C. Service, therefore, is
taking positive action to provide
technical information which will
enable farmers to take early
restorative and preventive
measures. Obviously, it would
not be possible for it to carry
out work on all the properties of
the State at the one time, and the
position in post-war years has
been that the number of inter-
ested and progressive land-
holders seeking its assistance
has been more than sufficient to
keep it fully occupied.
The S.C. Service has made
over 11,500 inspections of pro-
perties, including the 3700 on
which it has actually carried out
work. At all times, apart from
one or two isolated districts,
there has been a waiting-list for
the hire of earthmoving-plant.
It is confidently expected that
the self-evident benefits of soil-
conservation, backed by a
Steep grazing-land in the Hunter Valley ( N.S.W. ) protected against erosion by contour-bank and
pasture-furrows. Note the water lying in the furrows after rain—increased absorption will
promote growth of pasture.
general educational publicity-
camnaien will tell their own
the f armers seeking
an ce W ill keep the 5 C Ser-
eventually the number of
olders will be
apatheuc landholders will be
Sc h lunke made two points
Mr, maae iwo pom s
briefly Kid that
the earthworks are “frighten-
exoensive” and that “there
something profoundly revolt-
W Ibout fluf sight of torn-up
earth.” I personally do not
agree with either of these state-
relative
Expensive is omy a reiauvc
term, .and must be related tothe
adva^ a | es and th U® ce ’ s
of benefit. The S.C Service s
plant-hire charges are very
reasonable, expenditure on
earthworks where they are
necessary is just as legitimate an
hem in the development of a
farm as fencing, farm-buildings,
top-dressing, pumping - equip-
ment, or pasture-improvement,
all of which may involve con-
siderable initial outlay for the
sake of long-term dividends.
Money spent on soil-conserva-
tion works is an allowable deduc-
tion for income-tax purposes,
and this also reduces the actual
cost to the farmer.
To my knowledge, at least
2000 landholders do not agree
with Mr. Schlunke, as that is the
number of applications for hire
of earthmoving-plant which
have been approved since the
plant-hire scheme was introduced
in 1948, the landholders con-
cerned being prepared to spend
about £350,000 of their own
money on the provision of earth-
works. And this does not take
into account the farmers who
have done work with their own
plant.
On the score of cost, also,
there is no need for a farmer
to install earthworks on the
whole of his property at the one
time. He can do so in sections,
and the increased production
which he will get from the better
growth of pastures and crops on
the treated areas will pay for
the balance as the years go by.
Several farmers have utilised the
scheme in this way: the fact that
they have come back for more
work is proof that earthworks
pay dividends.
In certain situations earth-
banks for water-diversion are a
primary essential in the control
of erosion. The S.C. Service will
never recommend earthworks
unless they are essential, or at
least likely to be beneficial by
reason of increased water-
absorption On the score of
appearance, I doubt whether
many farmers are repelled by the
”ght of contour-line's or. if they
are whether they would forgo
droved advantage merely for the
undulations of the earth. Cer-
riot been the case
2“^^“UtS£.
protection and profit must surely
rank more highly than appear-
ance in our scale of farming
values.
In any case, the scars of ero-
sion which will eventually
emerge unprotected ] ands , if
they have not already done so,
i y t i an earth .
which *J on grass . oV er
an d are often difficult to discern
10
after a tew years
Nor can I agree that e
Soil Conservation Ser 1C
done at n . lts
would not be'
Poetic „u prn a t ; ve t o
holdings. The alternative to
expensive restoration of a badly
eroded property and controlled
stocking and crop-rotation for a
few years is virtually no produc-
tion at all. The monetary value
of the property will fall with the
decline of its productive capac-
ity. An admittedly heavy capital
outlay on restoration and im-
provements on a badly eroded
farm now will avert further loss
of capital in the future and
eventually lead to increases in
capital value and dividends.
Mr. Schlunke’s suggestion
that all seriously eroded lands
should be resumed and treated
wculd meet with the strongest
opposition from the farmers of
N. S. Wales, and is not favored
by the Soil Conservation Service
because such action would be-
neither practicable nor necessary.
The S.C. Service aims to achieve
its objectives by co-operation
with landholders, and, within
limits, believes that the less inter-
ference there is with land-
ownership the better. The
farmer-owner must have his part
in the treatment of the land for
prevention of erosion. It would
not be practicable to resume his
land, put in the banks, and then
sell it back to him. The banks
are only one small part of the
general treatment of the property
by the farmer.
The basic principle taught by
the S.C, Service is that the first
line of defence against erosion is
wise land-use; the second, the
development of vegetative cover ;
and the third, safe water-disposal
and the use of mechanically-
constructed earthworks to sup-
plement the former measures. If
the farmer is given a complete
plan for safe water-disposal and
wise land-use, anc any large
earth-banks required are put up
with suitable plant, he can do
the supplementary work himself,
The cess can Y be a gradual
transition, and no loss of time
or of land will be involved.
On a further point, I cannot
agree that loans for soil-conser-
vation work smacks of bureau-
cra tic charity.” There is no such
suggestion in the advances
scheme, which is a strictly busi-
ness proposition designed to
ensure that lack of funds will not
be an impediment to any farmer
want i ng to undertake soil-con-
servation work. Nor is it likely
that any progressive farmer
would worry unduly about enter-
/ new mortgage for
ca g jtal im p rovement s in the way
soil-conservation measures.
All efficient businessmen work
Qn overdrafts while ever the need
exists—and farming is a business,
... that there may be
I w
some farmers who regard their
duty as finished when they have
paid off the farm, but if they
decide not to undertake the
further capital improvements
which may be necessary to
protect their property or
increase their income they
are neither progressive nor
efficient, and are merely delaying
the chance of further develop-
ment of the property for the
benefit of their heirs or tor
resale. In many cases, however,
the intended heirs would already
have a say in the management of
the property and may have
strong views in regard to further
improvements.
The Soil Conservation Com-
missioner, Mr. Clayton, and I
welcome expressions of opinion
from the practical viewpoint,
such as Mr. Schlunke has given
to readers of The Bulletin.
There are individual farmers
whose attitude to soil-conserva-
tion would fit each one of the
possible retarding factors sug-
gested by Mr. Schlunke, But we
are convinced that as the soil-
conservation programme pro-
ceeds there will be very few, if
any, “obstinate” farmers left
standing out. The results of
soil-conservation measures in the
form of better crops and pastures
speak for themselves, and no
progressive farmer can afford
not to adopt them.
On the question of the need
for continued education, par-
ticularly in early remedial and
preventive measures, we are in
agreement with Mr. Schlunke
and already have taken practical
steps to expand farmer-education
in regard to the soil-conservation
measures within his own capabili-
ties. Meanwhile, in the light of
what it is possible to achieve in
a few years, there is every reason
for satisfaction with the progress
which has been made in soil-
conservation in New South
Wales. In this field we are the
leaders in the Commonwealth.
A. G. Enticknap.
(Minister for Conservation,
N.S.W. Department of Conser-
vation).
Queensland Cotton
With the guaranteed price
continued by the Common-
wealth Government for the
coming season, cotton has again
become a crop of major import-
ance here in central Queens-
land. Good yields over the past
two years, coupled with the
uncertain price of gram-
sorghum, have encouraged


KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too—7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows,
Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment illustrated is the
“FARMERS’ BOY” DUSTER AND
FERTILISER SPREADER
Write to your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA. 2631.
TAS. ; Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S- Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE...
y-m
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
d
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible £or
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 26 years
DISTRIBUTORS'
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q!land), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.; ■ R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston-
DARWIN; G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore: British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
growers to take advantage of
the guarantee. Estimated
area to be planted this season
will be in the vicinity of 15,000
acres.
After a mild winter and fair
rainfalls, land preparation was
easy, and storage of sub-soil
moisture by good cultural
methods seems certain after the
spring and early-summer rains.
Plantings, in general, were made
in late September to the end of
November: good germinations
so far and promising growth.
A large percentage of the plant-
ing will probably be harvested
by mechanical-pickers; it has
been emphasised that all crops
intended for suck-picking must
be maintained in a clean condi-
tion, with row- and plant-
spacing according to Cotton
Board requirements.
In general, prospects for the
current crop are at present very
bright, but much will depend
on the weather from mid-
December to mid-January. Of
last season’s crop 2261 bales
had been ginned at the Glen-
more ginnery, Rockhampton,
up till the end of November.
John F. Doyle.
Pasture-seed
Harvesting
This year the New England
(N.S.W.) enjoyed the kind of
spring pasture-minded graziers
dream about. Paddocks of
red- and white-clover a mass of
bloom, phalaris fence-high, and
sub. - clover flowering and
setting seed almost until
Christmas.
Owners of lucerne-stands
were mowing and baling at time
of writing, and judging by the
amount of hay-machinery going
out of the agents’ depots,
graziers intend to make the
most of an unprecedented
opportunity to build up fodder-
reserves.
All this hay - making activity
is very pleasing to Frank York,
Department of Agriculture
agronomist for Glen Innes and
Tenterfield districts, but he is
busy making sure that owners
of large areas of improved-
pasture in his area do not over-
look the opportunity the harvest-
ing of pasture-seed offers.
Phalaris is the seed-crop most
familiar to New England
graziers, and there is a good
deal of local experience and
machinery available. However,
because of its uneven ripening
and habit of shedding the ripe
seed as soon as the binder or
header-reel touches the heads,
no really satisfactory method
has been evolved. The old
method is to cut the crop with
a reaper-and-binder fitted with
troughs to catch the ripe seed
which sheds. The crop is then
stocked and, when dry, threshed,
A new idea, which appears to
be rough-and-ready, but which
gives surprisingly good results,
is to fit a wide, shallow trough
in front of a tractor or truck
and drive through the crop with
the trough brushing under the
heads. This is done when the
first of the seed is ripe and is
repeated as each succeeding lot
of seed ripens.
Strippers and all-crop headers
can also be used, but the uneven
ripening prevents these methods
from collecting more than a
small proportion of the seed.
Many paddocks of sub.-clover
are setting tremendous amounts
of seed. In many instances the
presence of phalaris in the stand
rules out the possibility of
harvesting the sub. Where the
stand is pure, York suggests the
use of a rotary-broom, such as
councils use for road-work, for
sweeping the seed into wind-
rows. The windrows can then
be threshed with a header. As
this is the first season in New
England that sub.-clover has
grown as it does in southern
areas, the purchase of elaborate
machinery does not appear to be
justified.
Some stands of white-clover
promise a return of up to £5O
per acre for seed. Once again
uneven ripening of seed is the
bugbear, but by mowing and
tbreshing, a reasonable propor-
tion of seed can be harvested.
Cocksfoot is the simplest of
all pasture-plants to harvest. It
bolds the seed in the head very
well, and can be harvested direct
from the stalk with an all-crop
header. This grass shows rea-
sonable promise on the eastern
granites, and future demands for
seed will be heavy.
In view of its value as hay,
most growers would prefer to
cut and bale red-clover stands.
Also, in view of its short life,
it would be advisable to allow
seed set to shed and thus pro-
long the life of the stand.
w. w. s.
Milking-Machine Leaks
“Mesa”; Air-leaks are Enemy
No. 1 in the milking-shed. Here
is where to look for them:
1. In the milk- and air-pipe
unions, loose or poorly seating
unions, and perished rubber-
rings which connect the releaser
to the milk- and air-lines.
2. Cracked releaser - bodies,
perished rings, bent and pitted
releaser-flaps and -rubbers.
3. Split seams, perished
rubbers and broken pipe-attach-
ments on the vacuum-tank and
its lid.
4. Poorly fitting, worn and
damaged pulsator-line and milk-
line taps.
5. Cracked claw-assemblies,
teat-cup nipples and claw-
rubbers.
6. Moisture trap-covers at the
vacuum-pump.
7. Slits caused by the torpedo-
cord rubbing the end of the
milk- and air-lines.
8. Slide- and pulsator-block
faces of both bail- and releaser-
pulsator. These leaks are gener-
ally small.
Air-leaks result in poor
machine-action and upset cows.
They fray the tempers of the
milkers, and slow-down milking
generally.
Baking-quality
“Lowana”: Despite periodic
protests from housewives,
millers and overseas buyers, the
baking-quality of Australian
flour is not getting any worse.
It is definitely better than it was
10 years ago—mainly because no
new wheat-variety is released to
farmers (in Victoria at any rate)
unless the quality of its flour is
better than that of the variety it
replaces.
Wheat-breeders are doing their
best to improve quality, but the
way grain is transported to mills
in big bulk “rakes” of trucks
from one silo makes it a lot
harder to blend wheats of
different quality from various
districts. Formerly a mill could
order grain from several districts
and blend it according to its
quality. The change in baking
methods because of new indus-
trial regulations also contributes
to prevent the loaf from being
as good as it could be.
The quantity of protein, as well
as the quality, is also important
in determining the baking-
attributes of flour —a point made
on this page some weeks back
by a writer who went into the
implications of this in some
detail. The article mentioned
appeared to be based on N.S.W,
experience. Here is something
of the Victorian picture:
Just after War 11, the Victorian
Department of Agriculture found
that the amount of protein in
Wimmera wheat varied from just
over 6 per cent, to nearly 14 per
cent., according to the amount of
nitrogen in the soil where the
crop was grown. Each 0.01 per
cent, of total nitrogen in the top
6in. of soil gave an approximate
increase of 1 per cent, in the
protein-content of the wheat
grown.
The soil-nitrogen content, in
turn, was related closely to the
history of the land. It was lower
on paddocks regularly cropped
than on those which had been
spelled under pasture.
At Longerenong College,
paddocks which had been under
barrel-medic for two years gave
wheat with about lj per cent,
more protein than grain from
paddocks on a wheat-fallow
rotation without pasture.
Western District areas, which
had some of the poorest-quality
wheat in Australia before sub.-
clover was grown there, now
have some of the highest protein-
content grain in Victoria.
No chemical not even
sulphate-of-ammonia affects
grain-quality much. In general,
grain with a higher protein-
content is obtained in the
Wimmera from wheat harvested
from later-sown crops. Crops
on well - prepared fallows
produce grain with a higher
protein-content than those on
poor fallow and non-fallow.
Bleached Wheat
“Cocky”: Don’t worry unduly
about wheat that has been
bleached by storms just before
harvest this season. “Bleaching”
reduces bushel-weight, but it
doesn’t wash much, if any,
nutrient from the grain.
Swelling due to moisture
means that there are fewer grains
to the bushel—loss of bushel-
weight—but more bushels to the
crop. Main trouble is that the
same weight of grain takes more
volume to cart it in bags or bulk
than if the rains hadn’t come.
The white color —hence the
name “bleaching”—is due to the
little cracks inside the grain when
it shrinks after being wet, which
reflect the light differently to
make your grain look white
instead of golden.
Preserving Hive
Timber
“Vic”: Preserving timber used
in hive-construction is important.
Hive-boxes dipped in paraffin-
wax develop a blotchy shade,
but a wash of creosote before
dipping will give a uniform
brown color.
After letting the wood stand
for two days to allow the stain to
dry-in, dip supers in hot
paraffin-wax and no further
odors will be present. Don’t use
creosote only, as the odor will
taint honey. Timber for dipping
in hot wax should be dry.
Moisture should also be dried
out of all supers.
Dipping-trough needs to be of
riveted iron, large enough to
hold two or three supers lying on
their side in Sin. or 4in. of wax.
If the trough is large enough,
each super can be revolved from
one side to the next, each side
being soaked for about 10
seconds before turning.
Dipping should be done in a
sheltered place, so that supers
lifted from the hot liquid on to
a sloping sheet of tin will be able
to drain without the wax con-
gealing on the surface and leav-
ing the wood greasy. Choose a
warm, sunny day.
High boiling-point of paraffin-
wax makes it suitable for re-
dipping supers and bottom-
boards that have become con-
taminated with foul-brood.
Don’t heat the wax too near
burning-point, because of the
danger of vapor given off being
ignited by a naked flame.
Crosscuts
“Grind”: Protests about sheep
being processed for fertiliser
when meat is dear are off the
beam. Only poor-quality old
ewes and wethers, not even fit for
canning, have been processed ;
apart from the value of their
skins they aren’t worth much,
• * •
“In the opinion of some mill-
men, a chapter of relatively easy
years has ended. The British
wool-textile industry, at least in
spinning and manufacturing, will
!for some time have surplus
capacity, having expanded too
far since the war. Wool will be
consumed, but probably rela-
tively less by Britain. From now
on the profit scale will be a good
deal narrower.” (“Wool
Record.”)
“General agreement was
reached that the United States
would co-operate with Japan in
its efforts to expand its foreign
trade and achieve a better
balance in its foreign economic
relations. It was further agreed
that the United States would sell
to Japan agricultural com-
modities, and that a substantial
portion of the proceeds of these
sales will be used for Japan’s
domestic economic improve-
ment and defence support and
for regional economic develop-
ment.” (From text of joint state-
ment by President Eisenhower
and Japanese Prime Minister
Yoshida.)
The significance of the above,
for Australia, is something for
economists to explore at leisure.
But two points leap to mind —
the imbalance of Japanese trade
with Australia, and the recent
drive for wool-mills, heavily sub-
sidised by the Japanese Govern-
ment.
“It is a disturbing fact that
during the recent boom years
enjoyed by the Australian wool-
growers the quantity of wool
purchased by local manufac-
turers has shown a marked
decline.’’ (Dalgety’s “Annual
Wool Review.”)
• • • •
“While the world wool situa-
tion is still regarded as sound,
competition from the beginning
of the season has been insufficient
to maintain prices except for
short periods. In spite of a
period of stability in September,
both Merino and crossbred prices
are currently (November 20)
some 20 per cent, below the
level at the end of last season.
One of the main reasons for this
weakness seems to be that manu-
facturers have had difficulty in
passing on last season’s prices to
consumer s.” (“Manchester
Guardian.”)
♦ • «
“B. J.”: Conference jointly
convened by the C.5.1.R.0. and
S.A. Department of Agriculture
to review the development of the
Coonalpyn Downs area of the
State (where the A.M.P. Society
has an extensive holding) con-
sidered that the three main prob-
lems yet requiring solution are:
Deep, sandy soils where pasture
has not yet been successful;
salty soils, development of which
presents many difficulties;
mineral nutrition, including the
use of phosphate and trace-
elements.
Hints
“South”; Try lime —plenty of
it —if lucerne is difficult to
establish. One ton per acre to
start, and harrow it in. Then roll
the paddock ready for sowing.
“M.”: Mulching plants with
rotted manure or compost helps
retain moisture, prevents burn-
ing of surface-roots and inhibits
weed-growth. It also acts as a
stimulant to the growing crop.


the hall, and went away.
Presently Mr. Krantz came along
the hall. He was a young man,
young, even, in David’s eyes.
“Well,” he said, happily and
gently, “it’s David Schultz.”
“Yes,” said David, his heart
beginning to thump. “I want to
see you about something,
Pastor.” He felt much better
after he had called Mr. Krantz
“pastor.” It made the interview
into a man-to-man affair.
“Well, let us go into my study,”
the pastor said.
David followed him into the
study, his nose twitching, and his
fingers fidgeting. He tried to
appear taller than he was, and
so walked on his toes.
“Take a seat, David,” the
pastor told him. He seated him-
self in a huge swivel-chair, rest-
ing his elbows on the wide arms,
placing his fingers as a support
to his chin, and staring gravely
down at David. David thought
the room very wonderful and
much better than his father’s con-
fused and untidy den. Thinking
of his father he straightened his
back and said firmly, “I want to
get married. Pastor.”
Pastor Krantz did not smile,
and no humor showed on his
face. A trifle of surprise perhaps,
and that was what David desired
to see. He shook his head
solemnly.
“I want to marry Rosemary
Nixon,” he said, and added with
a trace of careless conceit. “She’s
in love with me.”
“A very fine thing,” sighed
the pastor. He stared steadily
at David. “Are you sure you
mightn’t be a bit young?” he
began, and when hostility showed
in the boy’s face he hurried on.
“I mean this is a serious thing,”
he said, suiting his countenance
to the thought, “and you don’t
want to do anything you might
regret later.”
“Oh, Rosemary’s all right,”
David said carelessly, “But it
would help me a lot, you see, sir.”
Jhe “sir” had slipped out despite
David’s natural pride.
Mr. Krantz relaxed in his
chair. “I see, David,” he said.
“And in what way?”'
David almost blurted out the
full truth, but saved himself in
time. “Well, if I could get
married and get away on my
own and start life,” he said, his
eyes gleaming, “it would be
much better. X could do what I
want to do.”
“Ah, yes,” said Mr. Krantz.
His fingers clasped and
unclasped. “Quite so,” he
agreed. “But all that costs
money. You need to pay for a
wedding, and if you want to live
in a house then you have to have
the rent at least.”
David had not considered
these details. He looked at the
pastor warily. “But I’ve got a
ring,” he almost shouted, his old
confidence returning. He thrust
it into the pastor’s hands.
Mr. Krantz seemed interested.
“Well, that is something,” he
admitted.
“ ’Course I could of got
married in the Methodist,” said
David, “but I reckoned it wasn’t
right.” He had already forgotten
Peter’s loyalty in the matter.
MR. KRANTZ sighed grate-
fully. He was really
interested now. “And is Rose-
mary willing to become
Lutheran?” he asked.
David stared ahead, his nose
twitching again. A host of
problems confronted him, but
these he banished, thrusting them
aside with a gesture. “Don’t you
want to marry us?” he
demanded.
“Certainly I do,” said Mr.
Krantz, with warmth. “But all
sorts of things have to happen
before young people get married,
people under twenty-one, I mean.
For instance, I have to have your
parents’ consent, and the consent
of Rosemary’s parents.”
“Ah,” said David, staring at
the pastor. He had no doubt
about Rosemary’s parents.
“Wouldn’t be worth asking Dad
anything,” he said disparagingly.
“He doesn’t know much.”
“Oh,” said Mr. Krantz. A
smile hovered at the corners of
his mouth. “Then what will
you do when you get married,
David?” he asked.
David’s eyes gleamed. “I’m
gonner have a good farm,” he
said. “One where there’s no
rabbits. I’ll get rid of all the
holler logs and things. And I’ll
have good grass all the time, even
in the droughts, and no ’hoppers,
and plenty of dams.”
Mr. Krantz nodded approv-
ingly. “Well, that will be good,”
he agreed. “Almost unique, I
should say. And if you like the
soil so much, David, come out
and have a look at mine.” The
pastor gave another gentle sigh.
So few wished to see his garden,
and yet it was his joy,
David was astonished. He
had not seen vegetables like the
vegetables of Mr. Krantz. He
stared at the pastor, amazed.
“Didn’t know you had a garden,”
he said.
The pastor smiled. “Wait till
you see my lettuce,” he said, for
he carried a tape in his pocket
for such occasions.
David gasped at the size of the
lettuce. “Watch this,” said
Pastor Krantz, and he put the
tape across a Great Lakes variety,
“Eighteen inches,” he pro-
nounced,
“Gee!” David said wonder-
ingly.
“And beans,” said Mr. Krantz,
fingering the tape, his eyes
gleaming. “When did you see
beans like those?” David had
never seen beans like them, not
even in the Greek’s shop.
“And beetroot,” said Mr.
Krantz, extending the tape.
Nearly five inches, the beetroot.
“If only they’d use my
method,” said Mr. Krantz
sadly, thinking about his farmer-
parishioners.
David had forgotten about
Rosemary Nixon. He had even
forgotten his father. He was
thinking of the overhead tank,
and all the water that could be
used from it, with the windmill
working every day.
“What’s your method?” he
asked breathlessly, his eyes begin-
ning to glow in anticipation.
“Well,” said Mr. Krantz, and
his own eyes were glowing be-
cause of this unusually apprecia-
tive audience. “If you really
want to know, David, I don’t
mind telling you.” Mr. Krantz,
hungry man, was only too
delighted to divulge the soil
secrets of his heart.
EVEN Peter did not know
where David had gone. In
his rage David had failed to
volunteer information of his
movements. He had just dis-
appeared.
Grandma was not disposed to
worry. “Nothing to worry
about,” she said in her confident
way. She had had enough
worries in life without manu-
facturing more. Aunt Rita, how-
ever, was a trifle thoughtful.
“David was gonner get
married,” Peter said, blinking
his eyes.
Aunt Rita had become shock-
proof so far as the doings of
David were concerned. “Who
was he going to marry?” she
demanded.
“Not too sure,” Peter said
vaguely. “But he’s pretty sweet
on Rosemary Nixon.”
The Nixons knew nothing
about nuptial arrangements, or
David, so Aunt Rita began ring-
ing in earnest. She was able to
trace him to the bus, though this
only vaguely. No one was certain
David had gone on it. Os., when
he returned on his last trip, was
able to confirm the fact of
David’s visit to the parsonage.
But David had failed to make the
trip back.
Mrs. Schultz was really
alarmed. David hadn’t thought
to come home. “But, Rita,” she
protested. “I thought you’d have
looked for him when he didn’t
return from school.”
“Shows how much you know
him,” sniffed Rita.
“Well, if he’s at the parson-
age,” said Mr. Schultz, “then
there’s nothing to worry about,
We’ll ring you later, Rita.”
DAVID was having his third
cream-horn when his father
and mother arrived at the par-
sonage. The cream-horns were,
he considered, rewards for hav-
ing eaten his vegetables, but he
really hadn’t minded eating those
vegetables, so soft and tasty they
had been. He exulted in the
thought of their excellence, and
hugged to his heart their secret,
He scarcely looked up when
his parents were brought in by
Mrs. Krantz.
“David! ” his mother said with
great emotion. On the tide of
her love she flowed towards her
boy. David waved her away,
“Wtfv Said ;
homJ h thCm at
Mr S i 7 hie
hiJ“
thaf>'" te asked M? ' Krantz
helplessly
“Well” said Pastor Krantz
smoothly, “David was thinking
of getting married, and so he
came along to talk it over with
me. Now what is our decision,
David?” ’
“Oh, that,” said David care-
lessly. “Just about forgotten that,
I had.”
“Quite so,” murmured Mr.
Schultz. “David doesn’t
remember for very long,”
“I was telling him, too,” said
Mr. Krantz, “what a wonderful
farm you have. David seemed
to think it lacked, er, hah, certain
points required for perfection.”
Mr. Schultz grinned. “He’ll
know all about it one day,” he
said. He slapped his hands to-
gether, awkwardly. He had a
feeling that the pastor and he
could talk at great length, but
that this was not the time. “Well,
are you coming, David?”
“Always on to a feller,”
grumbled David, but he knew he
was beaten. Not another cream-
horn could he have eaten. “Mr.
Krantz makes his own cream,”
he said, and then, his eyes gleam-
ing, “and grows his own
vegetables, too.” His eyes were
on his father, accusingly.
“Oh,” said Mr. Schultz
politely. He intensely disliked
Sowing vegetables. *
“ WeU * David ’” said Mrs -
Schultz eagerly, placatmgly.
We ’ U grow some vegetables to-
Sether ’ eh? What about that? ”
“H’m," said Davld ' his ” ose
twitching slightly. “I don’t know
you ' P we f ee ‘
Schultz seemed vaguely grateful.
Mr. Krantz pulled his
parishioner aside in the hall and
muttered a few words. Mr.
Schultz nodded. He the
pastor a firm handshake. “Pop
around one day,” said Mr.
Krantz wistfully, “and I’ll show
Y° u my garden.”
“Ah, yes,” said Mr. Schultz.
TN the car he said breezily,
A “When are you going to get
married, David?” Hs felt hurt,
but would not show it.
David was drowsy Sjiow, with
excitement and cream-horns.
He nestled against his mother,
“Oh, that, he said ■
“Rosemary mightn t a got
married after all,” he said, finally
closing the matter,
But the new vision was upon
him. “You know that patch of
re d soil behind the house that s
netted. Dad,” he said,
“I know,” said Mr. Schultz,
staring ahead at the gravel road
as it sped under his lights,
“Well, you’d better give it to
me ,” David said. “I’ll grow
vegetables there, see if I don’t.”
“ Ab »» sa i d Mr Schultz,
delighted. “And how will you do
that, David?”
Bat David must have fallen
asleep, or, if he were not asleep,
then he was half-dreaming, and
was not saying anything.
“I was thinking,” said Mr.
Schultz, “that I’d let Peter and
you have a shot with the Win-
Chester next Saturday afternoon,
Help to clean-up the rabbits.”
gut even that failed to stir
David. Not for anything was he
going to speak. Even if he had
forgiven his father for one thing,
he was not going to betray, not
yet anyway, the secret he knew,
the marvellous, to-be-hugged-to-
the-breast secret told to him by
Pastor Krantz.
scored a prize of any substance
in the lottery run by Father
Time. Nor, in consequence,
has any recognition been
accorded Jan Roossengin, a
dashing combination of fighter
and merchant who acted as
supercargo (commercial direc-
tor) on board the Duyfken.
It is distinctly a pity that Jan
Carstensz failed in his attempt
to commemorate his voyage,
and to educate posterity, through
the mediums of a proclamation
on a tree and a captive black-
fellow. It is even more regret-
table that his gallant predecessor,
Willem Jansz, has not been
generally accorded his rightful
place at the head of Australia’s
army of explorers.
True enough, Jansz wasn’t
aware that the South Land he
had discovered did not consti-
tute part of New Guinea —had
he gained that knowledge he
may haye preceded Cook on
the east coast and Australia
would probably have become
Dutch territory. But, at least,
through that pioneering voyage
in the Duyfken (the Little Dove;
a mere pinnace of about 50 tons)
he placed more than 200 miles
of Australian coastline on a
chart.
Also, it is clear that the Jansz
expedition effected at least one
landing in north-eastern Aus-
tralia: the spot was near the
stream which the Carstensz
party later named the Batavia
River (on the west coast of Cape
York Peninsula), and it seems
probable that boats were taken
about 20 miles upstream. One
of the Dutchmen was killed
there by “missiles of the
savages”—the first white man
to die in Australia.
How many names Jansz
bestowed in the area is not pre-
cisely known. Anyway, the odd
thing is that only one has sur-
vived, this being, of course,
Cape Keerweer (Tumagain), the
point where he about-turned for
home.
Add to Jansz’s Carpentaria
achievements the fact that in
1618, while acting as supercargo
on the ship Mauritius, he landed
again in the South Land, this
time on the west coast near
Exmouth Gulf—add these two
facts and you can’t avoid the
conclusion that Willem Jansz
occupies a unique place in
Australia’s story.
Indeed, it was largely due to
this explorer, plus Abel Tasman,
that the Dutch were able to out-
line three-fifths of the map of
Australia before men from any
other nation ever saw this land:
that is, with the possible excep-
tion of the sailors of the Eng-
lish ship Trial, who were
wrecked near the Monte Bello
Islands in 1622.
In the light of Jansz’s record,
it is surely remarkable that only
one memorial of any conse-
quence has been erected in his
honor —and that isn’t a stone
structure but a biography; it is
a brief but illuminating assess-
ment produced by T. D. Mutch
(former N.S.W. Education
Minister) and published in 1942
in the “Journal of the Royal
Australian Historical Society.”
Not the least interesting sec-
tions of Tom Mutch’s story are
its revelations concerning the
extra-Australian career of Jansz.
He was, it is clear, no mere
flash-in-the-pan sailor, but a
naval fighter and public man of
considerable tonnage.
In brief, this Dutch voyager
rose from the position of steers-
man of a vessel to the Admiral-
ship of the Fleet, served as
Governor of Banda and became
a member of the Council of the
Indies. He was also a brave
opponent (at one stage in 1619
he captured four English ships
in one action), and he was an
honorable friend in other
circumstances.
Altogether, then, the man
who discovered Australia was a
competent all-rounder and in
general a really sound type, one
whom both Holland and “New
Holland” should be delighted
to honor.
It may be noted, by the way,
that the name Jansz was some-
times rendered Janssen, and in
English it became Johnson.
Thus a publication of 1625
refers to “William Johnson,
Commander of the Dutch Fleet,”
And thus, in turn, we arrive at
the fact—the uplifting fact—
that the Columbus of Australia,
the man who first touched this
land, almost 350 years ago, was
a bloke named Bill Johnson!
Well, what is to be done about
all this?
In the light of the actions
taken by W-A. and Tasmania
to commemorate their pioneer
Dutchmen, the fact appears to
be that both Jansz and Carstensz
have missed out largely because
they chanced to touch at spots
that are still, for the most part,
devoid of white settlement. But,
of course, the reputations of
such discoverers are not merely
matters of local concern ; they’re
a charge upon the nation as a
whole, and therefore they, or at
least the status of Jansz, should
be acknowledged in the National
Capital.
Since there does not appear
to be any portrait of Jansz
extant, the Dutch suggestion for
a statue at Canberra must be
ruled out. That is a detail.
Given recognition by the Com-
monwealth Government of the
need for a memorial, that need
could be met by the erection of
a -simple yet effective column,
fittingly inscribed.
If such an accomplishment is
to be expedited, maybe a mea-
sure of public education on the
subject is desirable, and in this
regard our Dutch friends—
especially those who complain
that “history in Australia starts
upon the whole with Captain
Cook” —might well reflect upon
the potential influence of the
Hartog plate.
As observed earlier, one hesi-
tates to suggest that Holland
should do any more “giving-
up,” but, nevertheless, I for one
have an impression that the
Hartog relic of 1616 would be
of most service, from the stand-
points of both nations, if it
were on display in the National
Capital of the land where it was
“born,”
The whirligig of history is
already spinning through the
influx of Dutch people, in large
numbers, to the land which their
ancestors discovered in the long-
ago. It would turn full circle if,
through the assistance of the
Hartog plate, justice were done
to Willem Jansz.
[POSTSCRIPT: Since the foregoing
notes were written I have amused
myself by testing ten people, of aver-
age knowledge, on the question, Who
was the first white man to touch
Australia? Rather surprisingly (but
probably because a “catch” was sus-
pected) no one voted outright for
Cook. Also surprisingly, two votes
were awarded Van Diemen, who in
fact was merely instrumental (as
Governor-General of the Dutch East
Indies) in sending Tasman southward
in 1642, but who himself never saw
the South Land. The ten nominations,
a very mixed assortment embracing
five nationalities, were as follow:
Vasco da Gama; A Spaniard—l can t
recall his name; William Dampier;
A Fellow who left a plate on the
West Coast; Isaac Smith (Cooks
midshipman); Some Frenchman; Van
Diemen (2); La Perouse; and, finally,
A Dutchman Whose Name I Forget.
Alas, not even a passing reference
was made to Willem Jansz (or, it
you wish, Bill Johnson), the man who
has been described as “the Columbus
of Australia.”]


Marcia
Davenport
Mg Brother’s Keeper
A great new novel by the author of
The Valley of Decision.
A superbly written story that leads
one, almost hypnotically, to the last
of its 512 pages.
This, her most ambitious book, tells
of two brothers who lived and died
alone in a vast house which had
slowly become their tomb.
“Extremely readable.”
—V. S. PRITCHETT
BOOK SOCIETY
RECOMMENDATION
Just out. 18/9
COLLINS
SWEET THURSDAY
John Steinbeck
Naturally the day after Lousy Wednesday, Sweet Thursday
is a delightful gently satirical romance peopled with “Cannery
Row” characters.
At all booksellers - - - 15/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY ; ; AUCKLAND
EXAMINE OUR FINE ART PRINTS COLLECTION
Our comprehensive range includes prints from Europe and Asia ranging from
the old to the modern masters, a number of original Japanese paintings on silk,
some excellent reproductions of Chinese paintings, and a "few beautiful Gravure
i runcalso lithographs and engravings by living artists. We’ll frame your print to
match any decorating scheme, varnish or glaze it. and can process most prints to
gne the textured appearance of an original oil. You can have your prints mailed
anywhere in the world.
SUGGESTIONS
Degas: SCENE DE BALLET, 18 x 24 ..
Dobell: MARGARET OLLEY. 14 x IS
Bailie: BOOKSELLERS AT NOTRE DAME, !H x 14
Cezanne: BOY IN RED WAISTCOAT, 25 x3l ..
Call
in and stud'/ these prints at your leisure, or write in for our catalogue of prints to
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney
from interference which is accorded use-
less theorists until 1942, when they began
to ask for launching-sites and inquire
after methods of mass-production. Hitler
still didn’t think the A 4, as the V 2 was
known to them, would work ; but Degen-
kolb, the bald, bull-necked, egg-headed,
loose-cheeked chairman of his locomo-
tives special committee, scented success,
and moved to get control of the whole
set-up.
He was fought off. Then, in the middle
of 1943, Hitler saw the light, and gave
the experimenters top-priority—too late,
says the author, who considers that if the
V 2 had been developed more speedily it
might have won the war. And indeed
the Allies by this time had awakened to
the German experiments, and in the
middle of August plastered Peenemunde
with some 1500 tons of bombs and “a
huge number of incendiaries, using 600
four-engined bombers for the job” ; the
British also attacked factories earmarked
for rocket-production, and battered with
six-ton bombs heavy concrete launching-
stations that were being built. These
stations, the author considers, were
“Hitler’s faulty decision”; since it was
possible to launch the V 2 from cheap,
highly-mobile wagon-trains.
The first successful experiment had
been made in 1942; by the middle of
1943 a new shark was opening his mouth
to control the rocketeers, none less than
Himmler; and by September, and in
spite of their protests, he had forced upon
them a stormtrooper brigadier, Dr.
Kammler, one of those background-
workers without any special qualifications
who, in all kinds of modern technical
effort, whether democratic. Communist
or Fascist, rob brilliant specialists of the
tide that leads on to fortune ; taking it
just at the right moment and riding it
on other men’s heads up the careerists’
beaches . . .
That is the amusing part of this book,
that more violently than he disliked the
British, General Dornberger hated Dr.
Kammler. And on September 8, 1944,
when “the first V 2 operation took place
in Holland,” Dr. Kammler was head of
the Special Service Army Corps, in con-
trol of all V weapons, with the position
of a full field-general, immediately re-
sponsible to Hitler- -he “who had never
done a single day’s military service nor
enjoyed any military instruction what-
ever!”
Communist Method
In his study of Communist methods
of taking-over satellite States, Russia’s
Danubian Empire (Heinemann), Gordon
Shepherd discovers three common phases
to the conquest of Hungary, Rumania,
Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia.
First, the Communists work for an
“all-parties’ Government,” in which the
Communist party may not appear under
that name, and in which it never seeks
the highest position of Premier or Presi-
dent, but is amply satisfied with the Vice-
Premiership, or, even better, the Ministry
of the Interior (which has charge of the
police). “This first phase is also the age
of fellow-travellers par excellence.”
In the second phase the Communist
party takes over with the help of the
police force, which it has had time to
“reorganise,” and the former Premier
and President are pushed out of office
or out of windows. In this phase the
non-Communist politicians and lawyers
who have helped to bring about the
Communist take-over end their little
hour of glory, often with sharp surprise,
and the country’s real Communist leaders
come to the fore.
In the third fihase, with the country
consolidated as a Communist State, its
Communist leaders are accused of what-
ever crimes seem feasible. They are
purged ; they die quickly of a long illness,
or during a visit to Moscow; and
national Communist leaders are replaced
with Soviet leaders, often nationals of
the subject-country long and carefully
trained in Russia.
Mr. Shepherd, who has been eight
years in Vienna, first as officer of the
Allied Commission and then as corres-
pondent of the London “Telegraph,”
illustrates in doleful detail the working-
out of these progressions in Communist-
occupied countries. Then there is an
exposition of the Communist way with
churches; of cutting-off, for instance,
their worst enemies, the Catholics, from
communication with Rome, and of
instituting a “State”-Catholic Church
after murdering or imprisoning the
orthodox bishops.
Then he comes to “The Battle with
the Peasants.” Communism in these
parts got a great deal of agrarian backing
from the more liberal parties because of
the necessity for land-reforms ; but the
peasants or small landholders looking
for ground or more ground of their own
hardly envisaged being gathered into
“co - operatives.” The Communists
moved towards this end, also, in three
stages: first, only ploughing and sowing
done by the community; second, all
work on all farms done communally;
third, all members hand all their land,
except a small garden-plot, to the State.
On kulaks (farmers holding out from
co-operatives) the Government fixed
harrying prohibitions of free-sale and
strict regulations of times of delivery,
etc.: —
Another story brought to the West by a
Hungarian peasant who fled before an
[anti-kulakj drive shows that such controls
were not always exercised without blood-
shed. I feel it would be sinful to alter his
original English; “In my own village,
mayor delivers little, little—but kills pig,
and another pig; and kills another pig.
Farmer —my uncle—deliver well —much,
much, much; and wants to kill pig, too, for
himself. Mayor now saying, no, you not
kill pig. Farmer says, yes, I kill pig; you
kill pig, I kill pig. Mayor shouting. Farmer
killing mayor. Policeman running, shoot-
ing farmer dead. Son of farmci sees,
taking gun, shooting policeman dead. Son
now getting frightened, taking rope and
hanging himself on tree. Son dead, too.
See —four men dead, pig living.”
Mr. Shepherd’s chapter on “The Com-
munists and the Workers” should interest
all good trade-unionists; for instance,
the Communist way of putting produc-
tion-targets higher as the previous target
is reached, so that “in 1953 whole
Stakhanovite brigades working 300 per
cent, to 400 per cent, are said to be ‘not
unusual’ and the Communist way of
providing fines of 100,000 Czech
crowns or three months’ imprisonment
for those who “purposely fail to work.”
Olympics and Literature
“In the ACT”: The Olympic Games
in Melbourne are regarded as setting the
theme for the 1956 volume of Australian
poetry and prose to be compiled by the
Canberra division of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers. The volume Aus-
tralia Writes, issued by the division in
1953, had a gratifying success, and sold
well abroad. Editor of the new volume
will be T. A. G. Hungerford (who is
about to spend some months in the
Antarctic), and the editorial committee
comprises David Campbell, Mrs, L. F.
Rees, of the publication branch of the
Australian War Memorial, Lionel Wig-
more, Official War History and News
and Information Bureau writer, Professor
Manning Clark, Norman Barlett, E. F.
Fitzhardinge and Russell Ward. Closing-
date for MSS. is April 30 next. They
should be sent to Mrs. Rees at 50
Booroondara-street, Reid, A.C.T. Con-
tributions which are accepted will be
paid for by the Fellowship.
Reviewed Briefly
Other People’s Shoes: Kathleen Foyle
(Peter Davies). Kathleen Foyle has
written two previous novels about the
inhabitants of a small Ulster village
called Augherim, and some of the charac-
ters in this one will obviously be old
friends to people who have read these
works. Nevertheless this wholesome
little novel is complete in itself: a quiet
romance mainly revolving about a young
Canadian who returns to this village of
his forebears and there falls in love with
his distant cousin. The dialect dialogue
is not overdone, and, as the publishers
quite rightly say, its love-content “is not
all sex and people are nice without ever
being dull.”
* * * *
Too Dead to Run: Jason Manor
(Seeker and Warburg). The aide of an
American Senator who goes from city to
city investigating municipal graft arrives
at his home-town where, a few years
before, his father, a judge, had been found
a suicide after documents had been pro-
duced which showed that he had taken
bribes. Prodded into questioning this
verdict by a detective who believed in
his father, the son is almost compromised
in the shooting of the mayor, his father’s
enemy, just before the mayoral election.
After a considerable amount of torture
and toughery, and quite a number of
additional murders, the evil persons who
have been manipulating the city, and are
trying to manipulate the father of the girl
the judge’s son loves into the mayoralty,
are exposed and dealt with. It is much
too free with the murders for a good
thriller; for it is a test of the detective-
story that it should squeeze every drop
of interest out of one body before passing
on to the next.
* * * *
The Trail of the Red Canoe : Margaret
Govan (Dent). Excellent novel for girls
of about 11 to 15, set in Canada’s famous
Algonquin park. Four girls on a canoe-
trip encounter various adventures and
some mysteries, all of which are resolved
dramatically but never incredibly. Camp-
ing and canoeing in Canada are pleasantly
described.
♦ * * *
Minikin’s New Home : Mary D. Hill-
yard (Dent). The heroine is a six-year-
old girl who goes to live in a Georgian
house in the country ; makes friends with
other little girls and boys, going black-
berrying, paddling in streams —the dear,
protected little English child at her most
lush. The writing, as Lord Dunsany
observes on the cover, is beautifully
adjusted to a six-year-old’s mentality.
With a colored frontispiece and charming
line-drawings.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 310
Across
I—Republic sailor has a fit of temper
about a fertiliser. (5, 9)
B—Europeans with a custom which
is quite the wurst. (6, 7)
11— Little Kay is dishonest with
periodicals like “The Bulletin.'”
~ (8) •
12— splash paint over Aubrey
the Blushful. (6)
3—A moose. (3)
14— Animal goes from one side of the
compass to the other, then back
again. (3)
15— Plover which gathers its food
from a crocodile’s mouth has the
last letter, I see, with sixpence.
(6)
18—Hound bet about a donkey
singer and the French. (6)
30— had a girl who is a star in
Gilbert and Sullivan? (3)
31— Chaney scores a half-century to
the legside. (3)
33 A moth’s disorderly boy. (6)
Earnings for forty hours might
. even make the Pcke sway. (5, 3)
2/—These beauts glare into the faces
in of a Policeman. (5-8)
~ Old jokes from the stable tree
introducing one Randwick runner
to others. (5-9)
Down
1— China sorrow causes the rest of
this “interest” for the first Tues-
day in November. (3-5)
2 Reeking alterations like Homer’s
talk. (2, 5)
3 They sign up two directions to
the surf. (9)
4 Humiliation of - a floor below the
street. (9)
5 Host mentions such improper
nonsense when badly shot. (4)
6 Bird about to lock up. (5)
7 The result of laying three notes
on the piano? (3)
9—An airline fruit for a nurse. (5)
10 —Scene of Napoleon’s confinement
is able to rise. (4)
15 — The almost completely land-
locked gulf of the Netherlands.
(6, 3)
16— The most irritable end of Killie-
crankie St. (9)
17— Batting trophies won by me when
I was drunk. (2, 2,4)
19—Any explosive “egg” or the one
laid at Hiroshima for a native
medicine-man. (1-4)
21-—Carol with this madarae messing
clues up. (7)
22—Pink willows rise. (4)
24 —One by the steamer gulf. (5)
26—Pertaining to the non-professional
people. (4)
28—Kirghiz pilgrim city beheads only
Siberian heretics. (3>
Solution to Crossword No. 309


Hill
Jl
lIIIHIIIII
Hi
• Ml
Helping to maintain our standard of living by the manufacture
of high-quality wrapping papers and paperboards that simplify
the transportation and distribution of many basic commodities
that enter our homes daily.
* The term paperboard embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used for
paperboard and paper.
A.P.M.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
with Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale and Broadford in Victoria:
Botany, N.S.W.; and Petrie. Qld. (under construction)
