

THE
HOUSE
ğ
g
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE F. 8.1. ON COMMUNISM
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3874
Wednesday, May 12, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ROYAL ASCOT, SOCIAL EVENT OF THE SPORTING CALENDAR
RACECOURSES in England, unlike those in most other lands, are spread
over the whole country so that wherever the racing enthusiast may be,
from the apple orchards of Devonshire in the west to the hop gardens of
Kent in the east, from the English Channel in the south to the Scottish
Borderland, he will be no more than an hour's journey from a racecourse.
Every year the flat-racing season opens on the last Monday of March
with a meeting at Lincoln, and continues every week-day throughout the
following eight months—ending with the November Handicap at Manchester.
The highlights of the flat-racing season are five classic races for three-
year-olds; the “Two Thousand Guineas” and the “One Thousand Guineas,”
run at Newmarket during the First Spring Meeting; the Derby and the Oaks,
run at Epsom at the end of May or beginning of June; and the St. Leger,
run at Doncaster in September.
Ascot, the richest and the most fashionable race meeting of the year, has.
however, no classic race. It is like no other race meeting of the year and
it attracts the finest horses in the world ; it is one of the Smartest social
occasions of the season and it is an opportunity for the ladies to show what
their dressmakers have been able to create. A Newmarket Meeting is a
business meeting; Ascot, on the other hand, is first of all a social occasion
and it produces more pictures in the newspapers of ladies hats and trocKs
than does any other sporting event in the English calendar.
Ascot was first established in 1711 by Queen Anne, who decided that the
long miles of green heath which lay within the Royal manor of Windsor
should be a racecourse. To-day the ancient turf is as smooth as velvet and
the racecourse is one of the best equipped and still the most fashionable m
England.
The Ascot Meeting takes place during the third week of June and seven
races are run on each of the four days. Two of the most important are
the Royal Hunt Cup and the Ascot, Gold Cup ; the latter is run over a
distance of 24 miles on terms of weight-for-age. Ascot is always attended
by the Royal Family, who, during that week, are in residence at nearby
Windsor Castle and on selected days drive up the course to the Royal
Enclosure in open carriages drawn by Windsor Greys, ridden by postilions
wearing jackets of scarlet and gold. The Royal Procession is an unforgettable
sight and in Coronation Year, 1953, H.M. the Queen and the Duke of
Edinburgh received a tremendous welcome from the huge crowds assembled
along the course.


The Red Page
MELBOURNE MUSEUM
Donne might have been describing a
museum in his line: —-
For"! am every dead thing;
and no one might have expected a history
of a museum to make a lively book before
taking up, with a sense of duty, Collec-
tions of a Century : The History of the
First Hundred Years of the National
Museum of Victoria by R. F. M. Pescott
(The National Museum of Victoria). Let
us hope that it will not injure Mr. Pescott’s
standing as director of the museum for
the trustees and their chairman, Sir
Russell Grimwade, who provides an
appreciative foreword, to learn that in
Mr. Pescott they have an excellent dead-
pan humorist.
Or perhaps it is only the astonishing
happenings of the museum’s early days
that in this suave, limpid and devoted
prose raise the ripple of a smile. The Vic-
torian Surveyor-General, Captain Andrew
Clarke, organised the foundation of the
museum in 1854, with grants for “a
museum of natural history,” and “a
museum of economic geology.” It was
established in two rooms over his labora-
tories in the Latrobe-street assay office.
The first official appointment to the staff
was of William Blandowski as zoologist,
on April Fool’s Day, 1854, a most appro-
priate date.
Blandowski had come to Australia —
from where they do not know —about
five years before ; he had been a corporal
in the Prussian Army; he had already
been collecting natural-history specimens
at Cape York. In June, 1854, he became
a member of the council of the Philoso-
phical Society of Victoria, and in 1856
secretary of the Philosophical Institute
of Victoria, when the former society
merged with the Institute for the Advance-
ment of Science. The Philosophical So-
ciety and Institute became, by usage,
unofficial trustees of the museum.
No sooner was Blandowski appointed
zoologist than he began a series of col-
lecting-trips ; to the Upper Goulburn, to
Frankston and Cape Schanck, and to the
lower Murray. His energy produced
results; in eight months after the
museum’s formation it had 230 species
of Victorian birds; and his Murray excur-
sion produced 16,000 specimens, though
these represented “large numbers of a
small number of species.”
This was a much-criticised expedition.
Blandowski liked to be called “comman-
der”; the supplies included “51b. of best
starch and 2 flattening irons to be used for
laundering of the commander’s shirts and
handkerchiefs”; there were dissensions
among the members; there was dissatis-
faction with the supplies and equipment;
and Blandowski left the camp in 1857,
never to report to the museum. But he
did present a paper on his discoveries to
the Philosophical Institute; and this
appeared in the “Transactions” of the in-
stitute except for pages 131-134 and four
plates; the part where he says,' “I beg
to lay before you nineteen different forms
of fish living in the waters of the Murray
and Billabong.”
Certain members of the council of the
institute tendered their resignations be-
cause of those fish ; and careful research
has enabled Mr. Pescott to show that
Blandowski proposed naming the fish
after members of the council, and then
described the fish, thus;
Sample N: Slimy, slippery fish. Lives
in the mud. Is of a violent bluish color on
the belly. The whole upper surface is of a
dirty olivish-green color, with numerous
irregular dark patches.
Sample B: A fish easily recognised by
its low forehead, big belly and sharp
spine.
Blander than Blandowski, Mr. Pescott,
having dug-up these stinking fish,
remarks; “Obviously Mr. Blandowski
was not tactful in his choice of descriptive
words, if his intentions were perfectly
honorable.”
Blandowski, in fact, protested that “he
could produce books to show that the
offending words given were quite usual” ;
but the council moved for his resignation,
the motion failing only for lack of a two-
thirds majority. There was a commission
of inquiry, which put it to Blandowski
to substitute scientific descriptions for the
condemned pages ; and on his refusal the
council published his paper without them.
Blandowski sulked; he withheld the
drawings and specimens gained on his
Murray expedition. The Government
three times ordered him to give them up,
but late in 1857 he surrendered some of
the specimens only ; and with Chief Sec-
retary, Surveyor-General, President of the
Board of Land and Works, the Board
of Science and the Crown Solicitor
deliberating whether legal action should
be taken, Blandowski sailed for Germany
via China in March, 1859. He produced
several papers on Australia in Germany,
and from “a collection of 4000 sketches
which I made in Australia during a ten-
year stay” the library of the Berlin
Zoological Museum benefits by “a collec-
tion of drawings of Australian birds
signed ‘William von Blandowski’ and
painted by Gustav Mutzel,” of which
Plate 102, containing 28 kinds of parrots,
is well-reproduced in this History ,
That was in 1861; but by that time the
main stream of museum affairs was five
years away from Blandowski; for in July
1856, Professor Frederick McCoy had
the museum specimens removed from the
assay office in Latrobe-street to four
rooms above the lecture-rooms at the
university ; an event celebrated in car-
toon and in the deft light verse of the
day;
THE RAID ON THE MUSEUM
There was a little man
And he had a little plan,
The public of their specimens to rob, rob,
rob,
So he got a horse and dray
And he carted them away,
And chuckled with enjoyment of the job,
job, job.
Melbourne’s first Professor of Natural
Science, McCoy arrived from Dublin in
1854, aged 37, with a brilliant record
behind him in Britain as a geologist. The
university had just opened for business;
the rooms over the lecture-rooms had
been built up as a last-minute addition to
the plans while the lecture-rooms were
going up—it was to McCoy’s advantage
that specimens useful to his demonstra-
tions should be on hand at the university.
Governor Hotham had agreed that the
museum should be established at the
university; but at news of this agree-
ment the council of the Philosophical
Institute began to beat the drum for
establishment of the museum at the
public library. Petitions to Governors,
memorials to mayors, public meetings—
the hubbub was at its height when McCoy
slid the collection from under them.
Professor McCoy at that time enjoyed
the ascendancy always given in Australia
to a brilliant man newly-arrived from
overseas. His scientific advice was much
sought-after by the Government and his
requests for money to enlarge the museum
and buy specimens at first were met with
every sympathy. But the trustees of the
public library had been given the scent
of game, and then foiled. The chairman
of the library-trustees was Mr. Justice
Redmond Barry, who was also chancellor
of the university, and the retention of the
museum at the university became the sub-
ject of a long duel between Barry (later
Sir Redmond) and McCoy (later Sir
Frederick), with Sir Redmond able to
snipe from two points at once.
It is the story constantly repeated in
the world of institutions run by com-
mittees, and it almost amounts to a law
that a good trustee always beats a good
manager. This is specially so when the
manager happens to be, like McCoy, an
enthusiast. As the Government’s early
interest waned under McCoy’s constant
demands for more money (he was strictly
an honorary director himself), his wiles
waxed ; if he could not get the money to
buy a collection reported by his overseas
agents, he would have it sent out and con-
front the Government with the bill; if
the Government made it plain, even to his
urbane refusal to see, that money would
not be advanced for some beautiful
agglomeration of dead insects or empty
skins, McCoy would pay for them him-
self.
True, when money was required to
begin construction of a new museum-
building in the university grounds, Sir
Redmond Barry helped McCoy to get
it; but after the building had been, partly
completed, the university authorities
began to harry him to get his exhibits out
of their old premises ; and while the new
building was still uncompleted Sir Red-
mond was drawing up plans for a national
museum behind the public library. Sir
Redmond demanded that the Government
bear the expense of repairs of the road
through the university grounds to the
museum, badly worn by thousands of
visitors, the Government then suggesting
that repairs be borne by McCoy’s museum
funds . . .
The battle, described in agonising and
piquant detail by Mr. Pescott, went on
for 43 years. The librarians scored a
great victory in 1869, when the museum
was incorporated into the new Public
Library, Museums and National Trusts
Act; but it was not until 1899 that the
museum was moved from the university
to the public library buildings: Sir
Frederick McCoy died on May 13, 1899 ;
the museum began moving on July 15 —
they did in fact get it away from the little
Irish redhead over his dead body.
With the death of McCoy and the
accession of Sir Baldwin Spencer to
honorary directorship, the fire goes out
of Mr. Pescott’s history ; and one has
hardly the heart to say more than that
it is a most readable and detailed account
of the museum’s acquisitions, and a roll-
call of its servants, notably of the
Kershaws, father and son, its taxiderm-
ists ; its fires and robberies —including the
comparatively recent case of the English-
man who stole the butterflies. It is hard
for a reviewer to settle down to such
humdrum matters as dioramas of dead
animals, classifications of insects, or even
such Arabian Nights delicacies as roc s
eggs, after stories so richly human as
those of Blandowski and McCoy.
Love Story
The reasons for Book Society choices
are sometimes obscure. Perhaps The
Crooked Wall by Faith Compton Mac-
kenzie (Cape) was selected in an inspired
moment when it was realised that its
agreeable meande rings would appeal to
enormous numbers of women and teen-
age girls.
This “Victorian Story of Love,” as, the
author describes it, traces the affairs of
Miss Judith Jasmin, lovely and high-
spirited heiress, from her schooldays in
Belgravia, through her travels in Italy,
her various excursions into matrimonial
bliss in what Miss Daisy Ashford, (with
whom our author has undoubted affinities)
would have described as a “sumshus”
country mansion, and back and forth
from Brighton, resort of gay fashion.
Miss Jasmin, or Mrs. Oliver, or Mrs.
Marinden, and, as the novel ends, almost
certainly the future Mrs. Ivery, is scarcely
a credible character, but well in the best
tradition of romantic fiction. Her
freckled, faithful friend Bertha is like-
wise, in her own way, too good to be
true.
On the other hand the novel abounds
in thoroughly believable and well-
described minor characters: the two
maiden ladies who conduct the boarding-
house for young misses attending London
schools, and who later take paying guests
at Brighton (their nicknames are Pussy
and Pom); Papa Jasmin’s equivocal
housekeeper, Mrs. Grace ; and the Marin-
den couple, who are, briefly, papa- and
mama-in-law to Judith, are, among others,
excellent.
Moreover, it is all very good escape—
a delightful world in which superfluous
husbands can still break their necks in
point-to-point races ; where elderly enig-
matic lovers behave with sorrowful dig-
nity and unimpeachable propriety ; where
everything comes right in the end and
engaging villainesses escape anything as
unpleasant as retribution, by timely
death.
"The Ashes Crown the Year"
The best cricket-book to follow the
1948 tour of England (which signalled
Bradman’s farewell from active play)
was perhaps J. H. Fingleton’s Brightly
Fades the Don. The same award, with
reference to the Coronation-year tour,
may well go again to a Fingleton book,
The Ashes Crown the Year (Collins).
Fingleton, a trained journalist as well
as former Test batsman, has the touch
of the craftsman —unlike so many
cricketer-authors, (He has a gentle thrust
at old cricketers who “can’t resist gab-
bling in print.”) Written in diary-form,
the book contains plenty of shrewd com-
ment and alert observation, and a full
measure of good stories.
Yet, as with most cricket-books, a bit
of sub-editing and recasting would not
have been astray. There is some repeti-
tion ; and one or two surmises which
failed to pan-out quite as expected could
have been eliminated. After all, what is
suitable comment the night before a
Test is not always lit for inclusion in a
book to be read long after the event.
But these are minor blemishes. The
diary-form undoubtedly makes for read-
ability, with the not-cricket items adding
charm. As Fingleton travels round from
match to match, he details various little
incidents and happenings often not con-
nected in any way with cricket —accom-
modation in English inns; the difficulties
of night-driving; dinners with Prime
Minister Menzies and British Chancellor
of the Exchequer Butler; the Duke of
Edinburgh at polo (mulling a hit-out
which the broadcaster nonetheless said
was “a splendid shot by Prince Philip”);
Lord Tedder, second-in-command to
Eisenhower in the 1944-45 Battle for
Europe, rejected by the A.I.F. in 1915
because “We don’t want any ruddy
Pommies in our army” ; a similar atti-
tude in reverse when Fingleton, after
signing himself as “Australian” in a hotel-
register, is given a second book to sign—
the Aliens’ book ; and the creaky, crooked
old country-house where the landlady
dressed-up as a ghost one Christmas
Eve and frightened the wits out of Boris
Karloff!
Still, the book is, of course, mainly
cricket, with greatest appeal to the cricket-
lover. There is a full description of all
the Tests, with briefer references to every
other match.
One or two comments 'taken at ran-
dom :
“England made very hard work of win-
ning back the Ashes, but I think that
will prove nothing to the job now in front
of us. I don’t share the optimism of my
countrymen and I don’t see how they can
justify it” ... “I don’t think I have seen a
side to compare with this [Australian] one
in fielding. Certainly not in the slips.
Some of the catches taken were a joy
to see.”
Fingleton scouts suggestions made in
the Press at the time that the team was
“undisciplined,” and makes sane remarks
on the technical jargon too often creeping
into cricket-writing—“ Cricket must have
been too simple a game in those other
days when all one had to do was hit a
ball with the bat. Nowadays all the talk
is of seamers, edges, in-dippers, green-
tops, crust off the pitch, and so on.
Cricket is becoming over-theorised.”
The book should stand, also, as a work
of reference. This reviewer spotted only
three errors, all fairly slight—Edrich
(England) listed as having played in five
Tests instead of three; a Morris score of
26 against Gloucester given as 260; and,
on the previous page, a Gloucester
bowler, Mortimore, appearing in one
place as Mortimer.
Two chapters have nothing whatever to
do with cricket. “The Queen Is Crowned”
describes the Coronation Service. “Noth-
ing to Do with Cricket” concerns two of
England’s most horrible murder-trials,
one that of Christie, the Netting Hill
murderer. Interesting as it is, to finish-
off a cricket-book on such a macabre
note seems, if one may say so, hardly
cricket.
Reviewed Briefly
Lament for the Bride: Helen Reilly
(Museum Press). The nice girl who mar-
ries the irresistible tycoon is taken for the
honeymoon to the fashionable southern
resort, St. Augustine, where she finds that
her husband’s former wife fives next door
with her brother, who was the newlywed’s
former sweetheart. The tycoon has
arranged things thus to humiliate his
former wife; and an improbable attempt
to murder him is followed by the im-
probable murder of his evil attendant
and a shift of scene to Havana, where the
same cast continue with similar improba-
bilities and achieve a brilliant, if impro-
bable, denouement.
# * ♦ *
Illustrated History of English Litera-
ture : A. C. Ward (Longmans). Mr.
Ward is extremely disappointing to this
reviewer on one vital point: he attributes
a purely folk-origin to the ballads of the
15th century, believing they were com-
posed as African dance-songs are com-
posed today. But even the aborigines had
their songmen —that is, poets —and it is
not sensibly to be supposed that great
works of art of the quality of “True
Thomas” or “Edward, Edward” were
composed by committees of warbling
rustics. Somewhere in history there was
a balladist—or balladists —of genius
whose name has been lost; while, by the
chance that he “signed” four of his
poems, we have at least a nodding-
acquaintance with the much earlier
Anglo-Saxon religious-poet Cynewulf
... upon whom, as on Gower, Chaucer,
Henryson, Dunbar, Skelton, Spenser and
Shakspeare, Mr. Ward writes as interest-
ingly and informatively as his necessary
compactness will allow The volume,
intended for general readling, is the first
of a projected series of three volumes,
the second of which will begin with Ben
Jonson and end with Samuel Johnson,
and the third run from Blake to Bernard
Shaw.
♦ ♦ * *
No Medals for Murder: Henry Holt
(Museum Press). Wild doings in an
English country house, the owner fear-
ing that his former partner in an Ameri-
can oilfield, whom he incompletely shot,
is coming over to murder him and his
family. And indeed private-detective
Logan does find people being murdered
there. It is all rather heavy going,
although there is a pleasant study of a
pretty redhead dance-hostess who makes
£1000 blackmailing a dangerous gangster,
dresses herself as a lady, and arrives in
a Rolls-Royce to visit the country
mansion.


*
I®
«
I
'
mm-
vHv
U^-“
SaNl
Si
The garden furniture that makes you want to
Live in the out-doors
Summer and winter you can entertain or relax outdoors in comfort with garden furniture by
Halvic. Made to stand up to all extremes of weather, light and easily moved,
Halyic furniture is perfect for every home. C-ome and see our range.
m is* *
w wmm
5
m
W: '
;w
Left
Rest Ezy s ft. Seat ...
This light, comfortable, strongly built
seat lends itself to both indoors and
outdoors. Arm rests may be fitted at
extra cost. Price: sft., £4/11/8; 4ft.,
£4/3/7; 3ft., priced at £3/17/11.
Top picture
Albyn Seat
6ft. ..
5 ft. . .
4ft. . .
3ft. ..
£B/3/2
£7/0/10
£6/8/0
£5/15/3
T abourette
This conveniently shaped table is avail-
able with or without holes. Available in
red, green, orange or yellow. £l/17/6.
Hostess Chair
Without arm rests, this
chair has an ideal sit-
ting posture and is most
suitable for confined
spaces. £2/7/2.
g
4S>
•"r-niipwi jglgin
h*~z*^n
11 „- '■- '
Ess *
...^
:: -
m
***
m
m
am
I
::
lii
: .; ,s;;S
.3' * . .
HI Arm Chair
With cleverly constructed arm rests,
this chair is ideal for relaxing. Attrac-
tive enough for both outdoor and in-
door use. Priced at £2/16/6.
Use our Lay-by
(D.P.S. SYSTEM)
A small deposit secures your purchase.
Lay-by Department, second floor.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
mthony
ANTHONY HORDERNS* GARDEN REQUISITES—FOURTH FLOOR. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY
’PHONE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 12, 1954
VoL 75—No. 3874
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man*’
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOBER BUT SOUND
Dr. Evatt sounded desperate indeed in his reaction
to the Prime Minister’s policy-speech. His immediate
commentary included reiteration of the old stock
phrases which have lost their meaning in an era of
booming prosperity—“the vital question of wage
justice,” “the need for modernising Australia’s plant
and equipment under a ‘Labor’ Government,”
“ ‘Labor’s’ beneficial legislation for taxation conces-
sions for both primary and secondary industry.” It
is apparent that the Doctor is still dreaming of the
dear old days of the Chifley Golden Age when little
in the way of building material, houses, cars, beer or
cigarettes could be obtained except “on the black,”
when almost every big union was run by Communists,
when the need for modernising Australia’s plant
and equipment was so apparent to the “Labor” move-
ment that it tolerated strikes and go-slow in every key
industry on which the modernising depended, and
when mechanisation in the coalmines was strongly
opposed.
Later, in his own policy-speech. Dr. Evatt made
it clear that he is engaging in wild political and
economic gambling and the tender of electoral bribes
which he knows the country cannot pay. The promises
he makes abolition of the means-test (at a cost of
about £llO million a year) within three years, 3 p.c.
home-building loans up to 95 p.c. of valuations, cheap
credit for hire-purchase transactions. Consols accepted
at full face-value from original holders t for payment
of tax, income from Consols up to £lOOO free of
income tax, three months’ long-service leave to
employees under Federal awards, and all the Common-
wealth Bank credit “necessary for an expanding
economy would be more in place in a prospectus
issued by Reginald Aubrey Doyle or John Woolcott-
Forbes than a great political party with a sense of
responsibility to the whole of the people. But Dr.
Evatt apparently feels no responsibility to the whole
people. He repudiates the Prime Minister’s view
that all who work, whether it be with hand or brain,
are workers, and limits his definition, in accordance
with Communist theory which has dominated
“Labor’s’’ thinking since Moscow wished socialisation
on the A.L.P. via J. S. (“Jock”) Garden, to those who
are in the “Labor” movement. All others are his
opponents in the class-war.
The Federated Taxpayers’ Association approved
of Mr. Menzies’s speech, which is phenomenal indeed,
and its research director, Mr. J. McKellar White, called
it “an inspiring speech which gave a comprehensive and
attractive policy of individualism”; and even his
criticism is devastating to “Labor.” He declared that
Mr. Menzies placed great influence on spending, but
the truth was that the Government had nothing to give
for nothing—“all its plums must be gathered from the
people themselves in taxation,” wherefore the Govern-
ment’s social-services proposals, while generous at the
expense of the taxpayer, were “more realistic than
promises to abolish the means-test —a step which could
send the country into bankruptcy.”
The essence of the Prime Minister’s case is that
the Government policy has resulted, with world factors,
in stopping price-rises which had been continuous
since the war until last year; that it exceeded its
promise to raise loans for developmental work totalling
£250 million in five years by £5OO million, hung on to
its long-range policy and provided £7 out of every
£lO spent on works by the States in the period ; that
it has found practically all the money spent on housing
by all the States; that it provided the means to build
227,000 houses in the last three years against 140 000
built in the same period under the Chifley-Evatt Gov-
ernment ; that in four years it provided as much as all
the Governments of the previous 31 years had made
available for home-service loans.
In country areas, he claimed, the Government had
eliminated the shortages which were rife, and often
an organised racket, in the blackmarket days of 1949,
and rural industries had never known such prosperity.
No country in the world since the war has seen
anything like the programme of tax-reductions which
had been planned for Australians. He had good reason
to take pride in the national health scheme, which, as
it settles down to orderly working, is proving itself
one of the best in any country. Of defence the Prime
Minister scarcely needed to speak—the new liaison with
Allies upon whom we depend for external defence and
new methods is working smoothly. The accusation
in the international circles in which Australian diplo-
mats move that in every crisis Australia seemed to
lean to the Communist bloc has been liquidated since
Dr. Evatt and his curious band of Leftist advisers
have been removed from the External Affairs Depart-
ment. The National Security Board, which has trade-
union representation, reports;
The country is in a better position to meet sudden
emergency. The number of men under arms or
immediately available has been almost trebled. The
.h a ; y v ‘ a^ more l Ships ’ tbe Arm y has more tanks and
the Air Force has more planes.
And, it might have been added, better ships,
better-trained men and vastly more modern tanks and
planes.
Of the immediate programme for the future it
may be said that Menzies-Fadden policy has the merit
or being ordered with long-term considerations in
view. There is nothing in it that is startling. It
contains no barefaced bids for votes at any price. Its
increase in permissible income for pensioners from £2
to £3 10s. and in the maximum property qualifications
and m the ultimate property-income disqualification
rrom pension are about as much as any prudent
country can afford. The increase in the maximum
advance for housing under the War Services Homes
Act from £2OOO to £2750 and its provision of money
to enable tenants of State houses to buy their homes
on a 10 per cent, deposit and payments over 45 years
rVcnn™/^ 18 with times, a nd the gesture of making
£ 1,500,000 a year available to churches and charitable
bodies to build homes for the old will help along many
a Egging scheme. Its development plans for advances
up to £30,000 above the banks’ normal limits for
development of agricultural and pastoral holdings in
+ s e Northern Territory is likely to be of more value
than the old scheme under which Territory graziers
were freed, without real obligation, of income tax.
But nothing the Government Offers is sensational,
nothing not reasonably prudent. The best present the
country can have is the unobtrusive one suggested
mainly by inference that resources will be conserved,
development will proceed on an ordered long-term
plan ; the Government will not lose its head and break
out in a Spending jag such as that proposed by
Labor, but will devote its efforts to a continuance
°* .. f P o hcy which has steadily reduced taxation, and
which has aimed to limit the number of taxes, as
evidenced by the abolition of the land-tax and the
removal of 50,000 small" employers from the ambit of
pay-roll tax. Mr. Menzies said:
. ® an confidently look forward to making still
further tax-reductions In our next Budget.
That statement is not exciting ; but it is reassuring
and encouraging to the investor who has put up
a record in pouring money and labor into the country
m the past three years in such enterprises as the great
oil-refineries, new Australian factories and exploratory
work for the discovery of new fuels both of the atom
and the petrol age. It provides a policy which enables
developing industry to look ahead with reasonable
knowledge of what its commitments are likely to be
under a long-term plan. No country has ever pro-
over a on S P er iod without reasonable price-
stability. *
Government policy also provides a programme so
wrapped-up with free enterprise and so steadfastly
Australian, that it is not likely to compete with the
Labor programme for the support of the Communist
party, which was quoted by the Prime Minister as
writing recently in a manifesto that “a Labor Govern-
ment opens up great possibilities for advances, greater
opportunities, ‘provided we organise and lead
correctly,”
But ns the “Standard Weekly,” founded under the
editorship of Mr Leslie Haylen, M.P., one of Dr.
Evatt s Shadow Cabinet,” and described by itself as
official organ of the Labor party,” said (21/6/’46):
party has no choice but to sup-
a*« „,isss p "*- wi, * t
Since the two form a partnership for the ownership
and promotion of a common and sole objective-
socialisation this seems to be self-evident truth.
Change of Heart
One fact that emerges from Dr. Evatt’s promised plan
for 3 per cent, housing-loans is that while “Labor’s”
views on finance have not changed, its policy on home-
ownership has been completely reversed. It isn’t a
a sudden change; it has been working-up for a couple
of years, though, of course, there is nothing to prove
that a change of wind mightn’t blow it away again.
When Prime Minister Menzies produced his
scheme for the purchase of Housing Commission
homes by their tenants it may have seemed like an
attempt to reply to Evatt’s already-publicised 3 per
cent, offer (2 per cent, was mentioned at one stage), but
it was nothing of the sort. It was not a hastily-conceived
plan, the States had asked for it at recent Premiers’
Conferences.
In giving details of his plan Mr. Menzies said that
Labor had taken steps to discourage the purchase of
homes. He was quite right. When the Commonwealth
and States Housing Agreement was debated in 1945
it was introduced by Mr. Dedman, then Minister for
Post-war Reconstruction, who emphasised that it was
intended to cover
only rental bousing: of a good reasonable standard,
for those who are in need of proper housing accommo-
dation, and who, for various reasons, do not desire
or are unable to purchase their own homes.
Although Mr. Dedman added that the agreement
“would not preclude subsequent sale to a tenant at
the discretion of the housing authority” he made it
quite clear that he was not prepared to do anything
to facilitate or encourage such sales. Liberal and
Country-party members urged the inclusion of specific
provisions for the purchase of homes, but the Minister
refused to consider the suggestion, even though some
of his own party, notably Mr. Morgan and Dr. Gaha,
spoke in favor of home-ownership as opposed to rent-
ing. It was a remark by Dr. Gaha which prompted
Mr. Dedman to say;
The Commonwealth Government Is concerned
to provide adequate and good housing for the
workers ; it Is not concerned with making the workers
Into little capitalists.
Mr. Dedman is now stumping Corio in his second
attempt to win back the seat he lost to Hubert Opper-
man in 1949. In the event of a “Labor” victory, he
would be a strong contender for a portfolio in Evatt’s
Cabinet. It may be that four years in the wilderness
have changed his .views on home-ownership, but he
has never given the impression of being a man whose
ideas changed easily.
The Dedman attitude governed the policy of State
“Labor” Governments during the first few years of the
scheme. In New South Wales no Government en-
couragement was given to people who wished to buy
Housing Commission homes. For a long time would-be
buyers were told of the difficulty of ascertaining a fair
price for individual homes built as units of a big
project. Latterly the obstacle raised has been the
necessity of finding finance, for the full amount. When
the Premiers brought up this point in Canberra last
year they seemed quite sincere in their desire to start
selling houses. It was rather strange to find Mr.
Heffron voicing the very views that Government
members (then in Opposition) had put up to Mr.
Dedman in 1945:
I think that it is a very bad state of affairs when
a Government builds houses for people, and whose
only object is to rent them. It is well known that
most of the people who are living in rented houses
would readily avail themselves of any opportunity to
buy them, provided that the deposits were not too
high.
Acting-Premier Galvin, of Victoria, said “Home-
ownership is beneficial not only to our economic life
but also to our social life,” and Mr. Duggan, ol
Queensland, agreed that “it is undesirable that the
States and the Commonwealth should become land-
lords to the degree to which they are now.”
This change of heart does not spring from pure
altruism. The Socialists have been learning in the
school of bitter experience that the lot of the land-
lord is not entirely a matter of sitting in armchaired
ease writing out rent-receipts and refusing to repair
leaky roofs. The latest report of the Housing Com-
mission of New South Wales shows that the total
amount spent on maintenance of commission proper-
ties during the year 1952-53 was £364,445, of which
£177,037 represented cost of painting. The report
mentions with pride a reduction in the figure for general
repairs, which reflects “the firm policy adopted by the
commission in insisting upon tenants undertaking on
their own initiative such maintenance and minor repair
work as it is usual to expect tenants to perform,” and
also mentions that “negligent tenants” have been called
upon to meet the costs of repairs to bath-heaters and
electrical appliances where they were occasioned by
careless use. Other States have no doubt had the same
experience, which would explain Mr. Duggan’s cry a'
the Premiers’ Conference:
If we continue to be landlords, tenants will
become increasingly critical of u5....1 believe that if
we perpetuate the system of building houses for
rental there will be a general depreciation of the
standard of maintenance of bouses. People who rent
houses are not inclined to do as much repair and
maintenance work as are people who are financially
interested in their homes.
Although the “Labor” Premiers are now awake to
the value of private ownership of homes, the realisation
was tardy in coming—otherwise they would have made
better use of the provision in the agreement which per-
mitted them to sell homes provided the Commonwealth
received the full price. That they could have done so
is shown by the fact that up till June 30, 1953, West-
ralia —mostly during the term of the McLarty Liberal
Government—sold nearly as many homes as New
South Wales and Queensland combined, although their
population was nearly eight times greater and their
home-building roughly proportionate. The actual
figures were: Westralia, 1412; New South Wales,
1102; Queensland, 378. Victoria, incidentally, sold
only 84 homes. South Australia and Tasmania
did not participate in the scheme, but tackled their
housing problems independently. The Playford State,
without any inhibitions about little capitalists, sold
6540 of its Housing Trust homes —considerably more
than a third of its total construction.
Dr. Evatt’s Three-per cent. Election Homes bring
“Labor’s” conversion to final fulfilment, but those
who are tempted to take at face-value the Opposition-
leader’s avowal that “Labor” believes that every man
should be given the chance to own his own home should
not forget that Evatt was a fellow-Minister of Dedman
when that crusted Socialist was disowning that policy,
with Cabinet approval. And those who already own
homes or are paying them off at current rates of
interest should remember that they are the ones who
will be called upon to subsidise the Doc.’s three-per-
cents.
There is also another matter to be considered.
Three per cent, on a loan of, say, £3OOO is £9O a year.
But assume, as one should certainly do, that the whole
of the Evatt election-policy programme will raise
costs at least 50 p.c., then the house that could be
bought for £3500 rises to £5250. On a loan of £4500
3 p.c. interest costs £135 a year—equal to 4\ p.c. on a
loan of £3OOO. And, apart from the greater interest
charge, the burden of initial deposit and subsequent
debt-repayment becomes much heavier.
Dr. Evatt’s carefree attitude towards the use of
bank-credit regardless of consequences would give
inflation a tremendous kick along. All his “gifts” to
the electors will cost money and at the same time raise
costs. Home-building costs are particularly suscept-
ible to the Evatt type of inflation. And price-control
only brings back the blackmarkef.


THE LATEST IN GADGETS
“And what’s more, lady, it’ll only cost you a hundred-million a year to run.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Evatt's Last Throw
Sydney “Herald,” which has no animus
against “Labor,” had an error in
the heading of its report of Dr. Evatt’s
policy-speech; “Evatt Tells How Labor
Would Govern.” It meant “how Labor
would like to govern” if it could get the
cash. But on the next page it made its
meaning clear. It pointed out that social
services financed from the National Wel-
fare Fund were now costing £2O 12s. 7d.
a year per head of population, against
£l5 6s. 4d. a head when the Menzies
Government took office, due to increases
in the scale of pensions and the intro-
duction of new benefits —endowment for
the first child, pharmaceutical benefits
and medical benefits starting last July.
Already, the x ‘Herald” wrote, the
National Welfare Fund called for £lB4
million, which is comparable to defence
expenditure; and the complete abolition
of the means-test, as promised by the
hopeful Doctor, and his lOs.-a-week
increase in pensions, not counting raised
service pensions, child endowment and
social benefits generally, would call* for
another £125 million at least. It con-
cluded, after turning his promises over
with a pin, that if any Government were
to do what “Labor” proposes as a
financial expedient—expand credit and
charge the cost of capital works to
loan accounts, so as to make room in the
Budget for payment of the new social
bribes with which the Doctor proposes
to buy unthinking electors on May 29
it would “indeed be led by what Mr.
Chifley denounced as madness.” And if
“it recovered its sanity the only remedy
would be an increase in taxation of about
the same amount as that of 1951, in
what Dr. Evatt calls ‘The Horror
Budget.’ ”
This view is quoted because it is pro-
bably the most charitable one that even
a usually friendly critic could take of
Evatt’s plan. The Treasury—possessed of
knowledge gained in the last ten years
of the perils of inflation and of the costs
of election-bribery—summed up what
Dr. Evatt was promising in cold figures
for Mr. Menzies. When everything comes
to be paid for, including rebuying into
C.O.R. and Kwinana Refinery, the bill
for one year under Evatt will work out
at an extra £357 million, which could
only be paid without rioting inflation by
doubling the amount of income-tax paid
by individuals. And as Mr. Menzies
said, “you can’t double tax for the man
who pays 12s. or 14s. in the £” —or even,
in practice, the man who pays 6s. —with-
out ruining him. So the small man
would have to carry the bulk of the
burden. It is almost impassible to be-
lieve that any honest, sane man would
put such a proposal forward.
Dr. Evatt on speech-night was in
full retreat from everything that “Labor”
holds dear —socialisation of' industry,
compulsory unionism, the basic principles
of arbitration, the constitutional reforms
which “Labor” has always advocated and
particularly the interests of the Little
Man.
What is more to the point, Dr. Evatt’s
political programme, made up as it is of
an assortment of baits for wishful-
thinkers, is completely unworkable as a
government policy. Its only purpose is
to get Bert Evatt into the saddle as Prime
Minister and damn the cost and conse-
quences. This is Evatt’s last chance.
A Long Way from Chifley
Sweeping —over the air—like a stump-
jumping bulldozer through Australia’s
economic problems. Dr. Evatt in his
policy-speech made dark references to
the Menzies-Fadden Government’s prac-
tice of charging Commonwealth public-
works outlay against revenue. “The Gov-
ernment,” the Doctor declared dramatic-
ally, “has been using the taxpayers’ money
for works of a permanent or capital
nature. That means that the taxpayers
of the current year have been paying
every penny of the cost of national assets
that will belong to future generations.”
He alleged that £460 million had been
so spent “in the past four years.”
Then he indicated that he, in office,
would stop the practice and use this
money to help finance abolition of the
means-test.
According to the Budget papers, the
actual amount spent on capital works
and charged to revenue over the past four
years (including the estimated figure for
1953-54) was £4lB million—a bit over
£lOO million a year. In addition, a
Budget surplus of £98.5 million in 1951-
52 was used to help out the States —
mostly “Labor”-run—with their public-
works programmes at a time when public
loans were failing. It is a certainty that
public loans could not have been raised
at reasonable rates of interest during the
past four years to carry out Common-
wealth public works. Taxation —or infla-
tionary bank credit—were the only means
available to the Federal Government in
order to carry out works such as the
Snowy Mountains scheme, the Tasmanian
aluminium project, civil-aviation exten-
sions, ship-construction, post-office con-
struction and railway works. Or, if the
Commonwealth had used up for these
things all the loan-money available, the
Slates would have got nothing.
In economic truth, the use of revenue
to pay for public works during the
post-war years has been thoroughly
justifiable. The Australian debt arising
out of the 1939-45 war was £1413 million.
Most of the money was shot away or used
up in feeding, clothing and transporting
troops. The expenditure was unproduc-
tive of anything of an economic nature,
yet the awful gap of nearly £l5OO million
remained with only a large interest-bill
and a huge debt-repayment problem to
represent it.
Ihe subsequent use of revenue to pay
for public works has tended to fill-up the
gap, slow-down the growth of the interest-
bill, and help appreciably in checking
inflation.
The Evatt attitude towards works paid
for out of revenue is phony from start
to finish. This is no better illustrated than
by the fact that when Dr. Evatt was
Deputy Prime Minister in the Chifley
Government, Mr, Chifley planned to
spend £65 million on capital works out
of revenue during 1949-50 (the year
finished under Menzies and Fadden with
an actual outlay of £64.2 million), and
in 1948-9 Mr. Chifley spent £4O million.
Converted into present-day values after
four or five years of the “Labor”-spon-
sored 40-hour week those figures run the
present £lOO-million-a-year pretty close.
And yet Mr. Chifley was strongly opposed
to abolition of the means-test in the
economic circumstances then prevailing.
He knew flow inflationary such a reck-
less policy would be.
t
The Evatts
There are not only two Doctor Evatts,
at least where Communists are con-
cerned —their Parliamentary and . legal
defender when the Menzies Government
was trying to do what President .Eisen-
hower is doing now, and their uneasy
critic since the Petrovs became embarrass-
ments —but two Evatt brothers, Herbert
and Clive. Herbert is, of course, the
political chameleon referred to. Clive
was N.S.W. “Labor” Premier Cahill’s
Minister of Housing till he resigned or
was shoved out less than two months be-
fore the election for the House of Repre-
sentatives, when Herbert had naturally
begun working out details of his policy-
speech and campaign arrangements.
The Cahill action must have been a
fearful blow to Herbert as well as Clive.
Nothing like it ever happened before in
the history of “the movement.” As one
of the brothers Dromio put it in “The
Comedy of Errors”.:
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of
season,
When .in the why and the wherefore is
neither rhyme nor reason?
Either of the brothers Evatt might
have hurled the same question at the
clumsy, if angry, Cahill. Neither ex-
pressed his injured feelings in words. Nor
did Mr. Cahill try (at least immediately)
to remove the natural impression that
Herbert was a pain in the neck to him
as well as Clive.
Before Clive’s exit from the Cahill
Ministry he helped his associates to pass,
and conceivably advised them on, the
infamous measure which denies non-
unionists the Right to Work. One of the
results has been correctly stated in the
“Sydney Morning Herald”: the Clerks’
Union, of which Clive is a member, has
gained, by compulsion, 8000 members,
who have been “advised” by the present
union bosses, they and those who be-
longed to it already, to vote for Herbert
and party on May 29. Had they per-
force joined at an earlier date the
“advice” might have been that they should
vote Communist.
For in this union, as in others, there
has been a continuous struggle for con-
trol between the Communist and A.L.P.
factions. The A.L.P. faction is now on
top, but the Communist “Tribune” is not
without hope that the Reds will regain
their ascendancy, and in its issue of May
5 it finds space for “Mr. J. R. Hughes,
former Secretary of the Clerks’ Union,”
to let fly at “Mr. Riordan, present Clerks’
Union secretary” (with a small s). Mr.
Riordan, it seems, had said that “Petrov
was on the mailing-list of the union
while Mr. J. Hughes, a Communist, was
secretary,” and “this... .established a link
between the Soviet Embassy and the
Communists who were administering the
union.” According to Hughes, it was
“unprincipled to infer improper motives
concerning the mailing-list of the union
journal, which is a registered newspaper,”
and “the statement that ‘officials of the
union carried on a liaison with the Soviet
Embassy in Canberra’ is completely
false.”
Chris Watson and Andy Fisher would
turn in their graves if they knew that
men and women with their own political
convictions are compelled by “Labor”
action to join a union in which they have
to choose between a Hughes and a
Riordan, and see part of the payments
extorted from them devoted, directly or
indirectly, to one or other of the causes
for which these persons stand. There
were no strings tied to the Right to Work,
as Watson and Fisher understood it, and
as it was made a Labor principle; they
really believed in it. So, presumably, do
Herbert and Clive —for people in other
countries.
Starters for May 29
Although there is a tendency to regard
the Federal election as a Menzies-Evatt
bout, there will be 298 candidates in the
field on May 29—almost the same num-
ber as at the 1951 election. Seven mem-
bers of the Twentieth Parliament have
been returned unopposed—all but one of
them on the Government side of the
House, the exception being Clyde
Cameron, “Labor” member for Hind-
marsh (S.A.). Three Ministers are un-
opposed—Eric Harrison (Wentworth,
N.S.W.), H. L, Anthony (Richmond,
N.S.W.), and J. McEwen (Murray, Vic.) —
also H. B. Turner, who won Billy Hughes’s
seat, Bradfield (N.S.W.), at a by-election
at the end of 1952, W. G. Turnbull
(Mailed, Vic.) and A. R. Downer (Angas,
S.A.),
There are 41 Communists running this
year compared with 27 at the last elec-
tion. Of these the best-known are L.
Sharkey, who went to jail for treasonable
utterances, and E. Thornton, who went to
Peking for reasons known to himself and
Moscow. Like the rest of their runners
on May 29 they'can be regarded as just
going along for the ride. The same may
be said for most of the 15 Independents,
of whom the one most likely to put up a
good run is C. W. Russell, former Coun-'
try-party member for Maranoa, who is
trying to win back that seat from the
official C.P. man, W. J. Brimblecombe,
who took it off him last time. Other pro-
minent Independents include Sir Raphael
Cilento, opposing Fadden in McPherson,
and E. K. White, one of the founders of
the present Liberal party, who is running
against Professor Bland in Warringah.
Four one-time “Labor” Ministers are
attempting to break in again—F. M.
Forde (Wide Bay, Q.), Nelson Lemmon
(St. George, N.S.W.), J. Dedman (Corio,
Vic.) and Norman Makin (Sturt, S.A.).
A Government candidate who is trying
for a comeback is C. G. Anderson, V.C.
Hume (N.S.W.) has a habit of swinging
at every election; Fuller scraped home
for “Labor” last time, so it should be
Anderson’s turn.
In five States the Government parties
have managed to avoid three-cornered
contests, though an unendorsed Liberal is
opposing Failes (C.P.) in Lawson
(N.S.W.). In Victoria there will be dog-
fights in Indi, McMillan and Wimmera,
the Country party putting up candidates
against the sitting Liberals. The same
position arose in 1949, but the Country
party did not intervene in 1951. In all
three seats there was surprisingly little
difference in jhe final Liberal vote on the
two occasions.
Old Friend for Peking
Every statement which Dr. Evatt utters
seems to make it more necessary that he
be watched closely by his friends and
advisers.
His latest is his attack on the Govern-
ment for allowing H. B. Chandler, pub-
lisher of the Communist party’s
“Tribune,” to escape from Australia:
The disclosures about the granting of
a passport to Mr. Chandler while others
have been refused is conclusive proof that
Mr. Holt completely misled Parliament
when he declared that the Commonwealth
had no power to refuse passports to Com-
munists travelling abroad The passports
permitted them to associate freely with
the Government in Peking, the centre of.
military operations against the United
Nations . . . This is equivalent to enabling
sympathisers with an enemy country to
join up with enemy headquarters while
the war is raging.
Comrade Chandler was one of the
Hughes - Evans Communist - controlled
group in 1940 when it was kicked out of
the “Labor” party after the “Hands Off
Russia” resolution was passed and J, A.
Beasley and Forgan Smith set out to
clean-up the N. S. Wales A.L.P. It was
this group, according to Dr. Lloyd Ross,
which made the first approaches to Dr.
Evatt to stand for the Federal House.
When it was thrown out of the A.L.P. it
formed what it called the “State Labor
Party,” whose executive included names
like J. Stewart and B. H. Anderson, as well
as Evans, Hughes, W. E. Gollan, E,
Ross, R. Lockwood and several other well-
known Communists, some of them
employees of the Communist party. The
general-secretary was Chandler.
When Dr. Evg.tt removed the ban from
the Communist party the State Labor
party held a joint meeting with Moscow’s
agents one night at Sydney Town Hall
and the two bodies merged forthwith as
a single whole.
The Communist party in 1944 rousingly
supported Dr. Evatt’s Fourteen Points
proposal for the reform of the Australian
Constitution, and in its manifesto set out
the objectives it hoped to see achieved
through his proposed amendments—
“nationalisation of banks and coalmines
and of sea- and rail-transport, the con-
version of war-annexes to civil production
under Government ownership, and full
Government control of raw materials,
land and machinery.” It was no wonder
the Communist party had hopes—Stalin
could not haye told his own and Dr.
Evatt’s proposed Constitutions apart.
And the Communists, being nothing if
not practical, were able to report as fol-
lows (“Tribune,” June 29, 1944):
The Labor movement has taken the
initiative in the establishment of ‘Yes’
committees whose representation will ex-
tend far beyond the Labor movement to
win the Federal Powers referendum of
August 19. The N. S. Wales Labor Coun-
cil’s convening committee as the first step
in the campaign for a Citizens’ Yes
.Committee.
The Labor Council’s convening committee
comprises Messrs. Guy Anderson, Frank
Kelly, W. C. Taylor, W. E. Dickson, M.L.C.,
J. Stewart, Tom Wright, H. B. Chandler
and Norman Jeffrey.
The Convening Committee will co-ordi-
nate its efforts with those of the Labor
Government, under the direction of tin
Attorney-General, Doctor Evatt, the Fede-
ral Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, and Mr. W.
Dickson, M.L.C.
Tom Wright, Norman Jeffrey and
Chandler were then three of the most
prominent Communists in the country.
A Far Outpost Fails
Dien Bien Phu has fallen after 57 days
of siege and unremitting attack. It is
physically only a small fortress area, a
little to the north of the 20th Parallel,
which the French decided to hold mostly
for morale reasons. In terms of war and
strategy, military and political, it has be-
come much more. It is the symbol of
French failure against an enemy which
only a few months ago was poorly armed,
an infiltrating banditti on a scale large
enough to occupy substantial areas of
Indo-China but not equipped for all-the-
year-round fighting. It operated in con-
cert with world Communism. Whenever
it proposed to send a fresh wave of march-
ing troops somewhere a “Vietnam Free-
dom Conference” or something of the
sort passed resolutions for publication in
the Cominform’s journal in Bucharest,
and the Communist papers everywhere
sprang to life to give moral support.
Up to this year these infiltrations had
faded out mysteriously with the arrival
of the monsoon season or its equivalent
in accordance with the Asiatic custom.
This season there was no fading-out. The
Vietminh forces were a new breed. They
were thoroughly trained by European
methods. They were armed, with an
abundance of weapons, suitable transport
and material. They exhibited military
methods comparable with those of a
sound, modern army. They had ammuni-
tion to burn and a direction which was
up-to-date. In fact, their mass-artillery
technique was Russian and nothing else,
and could scarcely have been applied in
the way they applied it except under
Russian instruction and with Russian aid.
So soon as the devoted garrison under
Brigadier-General de Castries marched out
captive, the outside world not knowing
whether its gallant commander was still
alive, the French faced two problems —
the immediate threat to the rice-producing
country of the Red River Delta, posed by
the freeing of 30,000 enemy troops and
powerful equipment only 100 miles away
and the general question of ending a
seven-years war. With the Geneva con-
ference in being the opportunity seemed
ripe to make the first move for negotiation
for a cease-fire.
But no Communist has ever nego-
tiated at the moment of his
victory, and the Communist dele-
gates immediately began to ruin any
chance of sane discussion. The Soviet
(i Continued on next page)


[For electoral matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
Union demanded that the “free States”
of Laos and Cambodia should be ad-
mitted to the discussions’. The British
spokesman told the meeting that the “Free
Cambodian State” consisted of three
Communists who had formed themselves
into a State for the purpose of the con-
ference.
There is little chance that anything
useful will come out of the wrangle. M.
Bidault summed up the situation when he
said that the issue with the Communists
was not the independence of the little
States of Indo-China, on which war was
being made as a step in a vast undertaking
to grab the resources and rule the peoples
of all South-East Asia. He said the troops
of France were defending the “common
cause of liberty.”
The loss of Dien Bien Phu will make its
effect felt to the detriment of Western
prestige throughout India, Burma, the
Malay Peninsula, Indonesia and Japan.
There, as in Korea in 1950, the West has
failed to hold its own. And thus the fallen
enclave, so fiercely and inspiringly
defended, becomes something with more
significance to Australians than the empty
promises of Dr. Evatt. Dien Bien Phu
was a fortress on this country’s farthest-
out defence-perimeter in Asia. Australia
is just as much one of Communism’s
objectives in the war directed from Mos-
cow as the Red River Delta.
Let anybody who doubts hold judg-
ment until the Petrov inquiry takes place.
POLITICAL POINTS
Bert’s slogan: When bigger promises
are made I’ll make ’em.
• •
Evatt packed ’em in at the Rivoli Hall,
Hurstville, on the night of his policy-
speech and probably had a big radio
audience all over Australia. But in Bris-
bane 3500 who could have stayed home
to listen to him preferred to go to the
City Hall to hear Menzies, although most
of them Jiad probably already heard his
broadcast two nights earlier.
• •
As part of his new-heaven-and-earth
policy the Doc. has undertaken to call
age-pensions (formerly old-age-pensions)
by their “proper name” retiring
allowances. The applause that greeted
his announcement suggests that the
change would be popular, but there’s one
section of his followers who won’t wel-
come it. Eddie Ward, Dan Curtin and
others Whose stock-in-trade in speech-
making is the plight of the “poor old
pensioner” will find it rather hard to raise
a lump in the throat over the woes of
the “pooh old retired people.”
« •
Cahill and Cain both cried out that
Menzies was stealing their ideas when the
P.M. announced his Government’s inten-
tion of allowing homes built under the
Commonwealth and States Housing
Agreement Act to be sold on long terms.
What do these fellows want? At the
Premiers’ Conference table they asked
for a sale-on-terms arrangement. Now
they’ve got it they don’t seem to want it.
• •
Calwell apparently found some signifi-
cance in the fact that Menzies in his policy-
speech spoke for 36 minutes before men-
tioning his deputy Artie Fadden. Two
night later Evatt went the full hour with-
out mentioning his deputy, Arthur
Calwell, at all.
• •
There were indignant protests from
“Labor” leaders at Menzies’s comment on
political appointments to lucrative jobs:
They will appoint an extinct Labor poli-
tician who knows nothing of shipping to
run a marine board; or a former union
official to run the milk industry; they would
not hesitate to appoint a vegetarian to con-
duct the meat industry, so long as his
politics were right.
But on the very night of Menzies’s
speech the Cain Government appointed
one of its own members —Minister for
Labor Fraser —as chairman of its new
Licensing Court.
Chief Secretary Galvin got very hot
under the collar at the suggestion that
there was anything political about the
appointment, but made no comment when
the Opposition referred to rumors that
the other seats on the bench would go
to former “Labor” members.
Fraser’s resignation from the Council
won’t cause any worry in the party as his
seat, Melbourne North, is safe for
“Labor,” but the choosing of his succes-
sor in Cabinet will be a headache for
caucus. Cain’s group in the Cabinet has
only a slight edge on the rival faction, and
Fraser was a Cain man.
• •
W. S. Hannon, endorsed “Labor” can-
didate for Denison (Tas.), deserves a hard-
luck award. He was so busy trying to
persuade people to vote for him that he
forgot to lodge his nomination, and as
his campaign committee couldn’t find him
last Thursday in time to get his signa-
ture on the dotted line they had to put
someone else up instead. R. H. Lacey,
State secretary of the A.L.P., will now
have the honor of seconding Athol Town-
ley’s vote of thanks to the returning-offi-
cer at the declaration of the poll.
• •
Study of Evatt’s popularity-speech sug-
gests that in “Labor’s” eyes there are two
classes deserving of help and encourage-
ment —the young and the old. The young
are to be helped because they are the
hope of the future; the old because they
are the sturdy pioneers who made Aus-
tralia what it is, etc., etc. The Doc. doesn’t
seem to give much thought to the people
in between who make up the bulk of the
population, do almost all the work and
pay almost all the taxes and will be the
ones who have to find the money to
finance Evatt’s schemes for the young and
old. It’s a case of jam for yesterday’s
worthies and jam for tomorrow’s, but
none for the worthies of today.
• <•
There’s a move in Victorian “Labor”
to ban party members from becoming
municipal councillors. Immediate reason
for raising the subject is the embarrass-
ment caused by Health Minister Barry’s
attack on some of his fellow-councillors,
but those behind it are invoking “Labor’s”
almost forgotten slogan, “One man, one
job.” Haven’t they ever heard of Jackie
Ferguson?
• „ •
Kelton, Communist candidate for
Riverina, has been visiting Hay, where
he was interviewed by the “Riverine
Grazier” and confided that he “has a
local organisation but is unable to dis-
close the personnel because of fears of
victimisation by employers and other
reasons connected with the security ser-
vice.” Locals are now expecting something
entirely original in election campaigns,
with Kelton’s agents, heavily masked, de-
livering their speeches in muffled tones
and their handbills printed in invisible
ink.
• •
Housie-housie tents in Melbourne were
packed with people having a last fling
during the week before the proclamation
THANK HEAVEN THAT'S FIXED!
of the Act making the game illegal. Now
the marquees are deserted. Corrigan,
“Labor” M.L.A. for Port Melbourne,
who fought a long campaign to ban the
game on the ground that it was depriv-
ing hundreds of children of the essential
things of life, can now devote himself to
campaigning against Tatt.’s, which his
party is bringing to Melbourne.
• •
“R.N.”: At first glance the news (B.
28/ 4/ ’54) that the Soviet is importing
yoga seems incredible. Everything in
Russia is designed to concentrate the in-
dividual’s attention on the drab reality
of Communist materialism, and yoga is
a philosophy which postulates the entire
subjectivity of the external world and sets
as its goal the complete divorce of the
mind from matter. But perhaps Com-
rade Anvar has consulted an etymological
dictionary and discovered that the word
in Sanskrit means “yoke.” In this case
his interest is understandable.
• •
The Victorian bill to abolish plural
voting in local-government elections was
defeated in the Legislative Council by
17 votes to 14, the two Hollway Libs
voting with the. Opposition,
• •
So long as trade-union policy opposes
incentive-payments all the noise and in-
dignation on the question of margins
will seem like hypocrisy. What is the
use of demanding all-round increases for
alleged skill while refusing to allow really-
skilled workers to reap the benefit of
their skill by working under incentive-
schemes?
• •
According to Vic. Transport Minister
Coleman the Melbourne Tramways have
had 24 strikes in the last'two years
“resulting in a loss of £.1,192,000 in
revenue and £583,000 in wages.” Cole-
man has brought in a bill to reconstitute
the Tramways Board. There’ll be an
employees’ representative on the board,
but the Tramways’ Union won’t be asked
to submit any names because “with the
present constitution of the union execu-
tive they would want a Communist or
fellow-traveller appointed.” However,
when an Opposition amendment proposed
to prevent the appointment of anyone
who was, or had been, a member of the
Communist party, the Minister objected
and it was defeated.
• •
“Actin’’: The four-way conference on
the plan to increase still further the
capacity of the Hume Reservoir will be
held as soon as possible after the election.
The plan is to lift the capacity to 2\
million acre-feet, instead of the 2 million
provided for in works now in progress
(original capacity was 1% million). Cost
of the expanded scheme will be* less if
agreement is reached soon, as the extra
work can be undertaken in conjunction
with the present job. The additional cost
will be nearly £6 million, and the Com-
monwealth has agreed to contribute one-
quarter of this if the three States con-
cerned agree to the proposals. There’s
also talk of a contribution from the
Snowy Mountains people.
• •
While Senator Kennedy was in Bris-
bane recently he appealed to wajersiders
to “put forward a united front” at the
Federal election. Those are the very
wbrds the Communists, to whom the
wharfies owe allegiance, have been using
towards “Labor.”
• •
“Stromlo”: A warmish political potato
will confront the Minister for the Interior
after the election, when he finds on his
desk the recommendation of the A.C.T.
Advisory Council that all licensed restaur-
ants in the Territory should be allowed to
serve liquor with meals between noon
and midnight without restrictions and
that clubs should also be allowed to sell
liquor to members after 6 p.m. The
council deferred until May 31 the ques-
tion of trading hours for hotels, having
originally put the matter off until the
Maxwell report was submitted in N.S.W.
One small snag in Canberra experiments
on liquor-trading is that only eight miles
away in N.S.W. lies the town of Quean-
beyan. Time was when Queanbeyan had
the liquor and Canberra had none, and
many were the bottle-laden journeys that
used to be made between the two. Per-
haps if Canberra gets later hours and
N.S.W. doesn’t we’ll see history reversed,
• •
“Labor,” State and Federal, is in favor
of increased margins and opposed to the
right of appeal against the decisions of
conciliation commissioners. Yet the
Cahill Government has lodged an appeal
against Conciliation Commissioner
Austin’s award of salary-increases to pro-
fessional officers in State transport. Per-
haps it doesn’t regard them as real
“workers.”
• •
Tax-concessions in the last Federal
Budget were criticised by “Labor” on the
ground that the ones who derived most
benefit from them were the “big com-
bines.” Won’t the same thing apply to
the Doc.’s initial-depreciation allow-
ances?
• •
Federal “Labor” should not base too
many hopes on the party’s win in four
of the five provinces contested at Satur-
day’s poll for the Westralian Legislative
Council. In the other five provinces
Liberal and Country-party members
were returned unopposed.
“Pawang”: Freud had something to
say on the present international situa-
tion. When a prominent Bolshevist told
him that Lenin had predicted that Europe
would have to go through a period of
desolation much worse than that caused
by the Revolution, the civil war and fam-
ine in Russia, but after that a period of
unbroken happiness and stability would
follow, Freud answered: “Let’s make it
fifty-fifty. I’ll accept the first half.”
• •
“Peers”: Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove
has yielded to pressure and is relaxing his
enforcement of the 16-year school-leav-
ing age. In country areas where only
primary-school facilities are available,
parents may now apply for exemption for
15-year-olds. The Opposition feel it has
had a moral victory. Although it sup-
ported the 16-ylar-leaving-age as an
ultimate objective, it protested that the
Government was putting the cart before
the horse in making children attend
school until that age, before the Educa-
tion Department had the facilities to cope
with the additional numbers.
• •
“In the ACT”: Australia’s now well
into the postage-stamp racket, in spite of
the appalling designs of some of our
recent stamps, and the Post Office is flat-
out to grab anything that’s going from
the folk who used to be stamp-collectors
but are now philatelists. There is now a
first-day cover-service, with special en-
velopes available for 2d. and with an
“addressing service” to give first-day ser-
vice to overseas collectors. The size of
the business and its profitable nature is
shown by the fact that it is handled by a
special Philatelic. Bureau as an ' adjunct
to the Melbourne G.P.O.
• •
Latest district to have its dreams of
oil-well prosperity is Maryborough (Q.).
A test-bore to 11,000 ft. at a site 25 miles
north-west of the city has been recom-
mended by an American firm of
petroleum-engineers. Drilling will begin
in September—if the plant arrives in
time.
• •
Churchill could hardly have given any
other answer than “No” to South African
Prime Minister Malan’s request for the
transfer of Bechuanaland, Basutoland and
Swaziland to the sovereignty of South
Africa. The three protectorates are
“island” territories within the boundaries
of South Africa, but they were excluded
from it by the Act which set up the Union
in 1909, when it was promised that they
would never be transferred to South
Africa without consultation with the
natives and the approval of the House
of Commons. Native opinion opposes
the transfer and neither party in the
Commons is likely to favor it at present.
• •
May 29 will show whether Australians
still believe in fairies and their ability to
assume such strange guises as the persons
of Evatt, Ward, Calwell —and Dedman.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
A CCORDING to Press reports, a Syd-
ney nipper on the Yank destroyer’s
bridge at Woolloomooloo sounded the
general alarm; sounded the atomic-bomb-
attack chemical alarm; sounded the
ship’s siren ; “signalled” by light to carrier
Tarawa astern. We know that, after
Pearl Harbor, the Yanks always kept
their guns manned, no matter in what
distant port they were berthed—natural
enough, perhaps. But if they retain
power to general alarms and signalling-
lamps, and steam to the sirens, with
ship’s visitors aboard, they deserve to
have O’Bannon take off and belt the
guts out of Pinchgut.—“Siren Sam.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Kelvin”: Every human has, some-
where, a double. This week I’ve had it
photographically proved to me. My
physical replica lives in England, where
I’ve never been ; we have never met, and
he is a nudist, as evidenced by a magazine
picture in which he and two feminine
members of the cult are engaging in an
informal tete-a-tete in alfresco setting—
leading to the display of the picture on
our staff notice-board by some anony-
mous office wag, who cut out the maga-
zine’s name and other evidence which
would have shown that the photo, was
taken in England and thus provide me
with an alibi. Short of posing in the
nude for a picture which will show that
I have a birthmark on a region where
the gentleman in the nudist picture has
not, I can see no way of demonstrating
that I really do spend my weekends with
all-male fishing-parties.
“Bo”: How to indicate to an enthusi-
astic audience clamoring for yet more
encores that he doesn’t propose to
oblige is a problem every concert-plat-
form virtuoso has to work out for him-
self. Most of them are content to keep
on coming back and bowing until they
eventually win the endurance contest.
Restoring the side-lights at Sydney Town
Hall has been a successful lurk, though
when McCormack made his last visit the
clamor was so insistent that even that
failed. However, English pianist Solomon
at his final Sydney concert applied the
closure neatly and most effectively. After
his third encore—his limit —he walked
over and very gently put the lid down
on the grand! They took it like lambs.
❖ * ❖ *X*
“Becks”: At what stage does an
heiress cease to be an heiress? Barbara
Woolworth seems to have had the use
of her millions sufficiently long to marry
and pay-off several husbands, but news-
paper reports almost invariably refer to
her as an heiress. Barbara is probably
in the forties, but it looks as if she’ll have
to put up with that title for a good many
years yet, because the cables have just
reported a tragedy in Chicago involving
the death-plunge of “an ironmongery-
fortune heiress” of 72. Wonder who her
heiress is?
■ijt
“Pawang”: The wife of the local news-
agent went to the doctor in great dis-
tress. “Doctor,” she said, “I can’t see,
I can’t see. Ever since I got up this morn-
ing everything’s looked blurred and
funny. Something terrible must have
happened.” “Oh?” said the doctor, and,
diagnosing it as psychological, “Obviously
a constitutional disorder.” Pending fur-
ther inquiry he told her to go home and
take a tonic and a good rest. Later his
patient rang-up. “It’s all right, doctor,”
she reported, “I’ve found I was wearing
my husband’s spectacles.”
•ijjjt
“K.A.”: The observations of “Pur-
alko” (B, 14/4/’54) on alimony-collecting
school-marms would not amuse those
males on the paying-end. Originally in-
tended to give the little woman some
security in a world prepared to employ
lonely females in hard, ill-paid domestic
labor only, maintenance has followed the
fashion set by much-married Holly-
woodens. Frequently crippling to the
payer, it is regarded as a feminine right
in the Welfare ,State, and “Marry ’em,
give ’em hell and bleed ’em” might be a
modern matrimonial motto. The scales
of justice are heavily weighted against the
male, and his case is pretty hopeless
against a combination of protected
womanhood, legal sharks and the Taxa-
tion Commissioner, For that worthy,
just to twist the knife in the wound,
regards male divorcees and grass-
widowers as single men, irrespective of
court awards. Perhaps Mr. Punch knew
something, after all,
♦> ❖ *
“Bass”: I’ll take “Ceg’s” word for it
that in banks treys are counted into £1
packets (B. 14/4/’54), but I’m moved to
wonder why. I’m old enough to have
seen big cheques cashed in sovereigns,
but the coins weren’t counted ; they were
“You certainly knew your onions, Milly, landing that gourmet ."
weighed. It was the same with bulky
deposits, and neither bank nor client ever
questioned the accuracy of the method.
It has often puzzled me why, say, 500
worn sovereigns wouldn’t weigh less than
the same number of new ones, but
apparently they didn’t. And if scales
could be relied on for gold, why not with
silver? It’d save a lot of time.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Shellback”: “X.M.N.,” recording that
Japan is to build the world’s biggest
“Come for a ride, Tools?"
ships (B. 28/4/’54), may not have heard
of an earlier Jap effort to break ship-
building records. For years Scots and
Tyneside engineers had been in charge of
the principal dockyards and had taught
all they knew about shipbuilding—quite
a lot —to the Japs. But about 1906, hav-
ing defeated the. Russians and acquired
a mercantile marine as well as Togo’s
Navy, the Japanese began to scrap all the
old brigade, and to build themselves a
Navy. One of its first ships was Hatsuse
Maru, claimed to be the biggest battle-
ship in the world. The figure claimed at
the time was some 56,000 tons, far larger
than anything then afloat. But having
been built, at the Kawasaki dockyard,
she refused to budge from the ways.
Rumor was that the old guard had to be
recalled to launch her. History has not
recorded her in commission, and she soon
dropped out of the Japanese news.
£*
“Ceg”: Although we don’t often see a
sovereign nowadays —I mean the gold
coin—there’s still a surprising number in
the possession of the public, the owners
holding fast to them. When I was dis-
cussing this with a cobber in a bar the
other day the Hebe in charge went to a
shelf, returned with one of those round
cigarette-tins, took the lid off and decanted
on to the counter about sixty of the
golden beauties. Did I mention she knew
us well? Said she had been saving them
up for years. Telling this to a farmer
friend, I noticed him fishing in his vest-
pocket, and presently he came to light
with one of those old-fashioned kidney-
shaped sovereign-cases. Halves on one
side, sovs on the other. He had only
about four of each, but it proves my
observation that there is still quite a bit
of gold about. Try it. And while on the
subject of sovereigns: In the days when
they could be freely dealt with large
quantities were shipped to China The
cable from Shanghai ordering them
always stipulated for “dragons.” Whether
that was due to the George-and-Dragon
sovs being of a much richer color than
the others, known as “standards,” or
whether it was the Celestial partiality for
a good-looking dragon I was never quite
sure.
“H.A.L.”: Adrian Conan Doyle, aided
by American John Dickson Carr, is writ-
ing a further series of the Sherlock
Holmes yams. They have all the props
and the atmosphere of the Baker-street
rooms; each starts off with an intriguing
mystery, suspense mounts —and then
comes a flop. Apparently neither Doyle
junior nor Carr has grasped one funda-
mental fact about constructing a good
mystery-tale. You must first have a
solution to a problem, then proceed to put
a story in front of it, as Edgar Wallace
did. But Bant Singer
is on the right track.
His Delaney yarns are
of the same type as
those written by the late
Peter Cheyney, but
everything else is origi-
nal —style, characters,
situations and surprise
twists to the plot. Col-
lins, his publisher, must
regard him as quite a
find.
♦♦♦ ❖
“CR.McL”: The
Anzac Day march-past
and the ceremony at
the Cenotaph over, a
visit was made to the
clubrooms for the final
ceremony. Old Gus,
aged 88, Boer War,
Gallipoli, Coast Patrol
World War 11, took a
seat among the old
hands. One of the
World War II veterans
piped up: “Where’s
your bow-and-arrow,
Pop?” Old Gus said,
“You don’t know any-
thing about condi-
tions.” This was ridi-
culed. Tanks, dive-
bombers, modern
machine - guns, etc.,
were mentioned; but
Old Gus persisted; “I
mean conditions.
Here’s half you young
shavers like giggling
Gerties on three seven-
ounce glasses of near-
beer, while we had the
pubs open from six
a.m. to 11 p.m., with
twenty-ounce schooners
of real stuff. How
many of you could
stand up to that?” By
applause from four
wars Gus won hands-
down with a special toast: “To Gus!”
“Jock”: What was wrong with the
A.J.C. and its sense of the fitness of
things for its Randwick meeting on Anzac
Day? For most of the races the club
adopted fashionable North Shore subur-
ban titles—Cremorne Novice, Neutral
Bay Handicap, M osman Graduation, etc.
Compare with other clubs —Newcastle:
Suvla Bay, Lone Pine and Tobruk Handi-
caps ; and Richmond Trots: Bullecourt,
Amiens and Gallipoli Handicaps.
“Ceg” has hopes:
These Anzac Day parades and reunions are
all very fine and large, but there is one way
in which I would like to spend next Anzac Day
if some shipping company will oblige. Most
of us remaining Anzacs would give our boots
(and medals) for the chance to have another
look at the Gallipoli Peninsula, to say nothing
of Egypt.
I would like to take afternoon-tea once more
at Groppi’s in Cairo, and stroll round the
Ezbekiah Gardens on Sunday afterhoon, even
if a British military-band is hot playing there.
I would like to have another look at Lemnos
Harbor, even if our ship were the only one in
it, instead of the armada we remember, with
the old Southland beached near the entrance.
To walk once more up Shrapnel Gully, and
then follow the line of trenches* to right and
left without the need for keeping the old head
down all the time. To climb Sari Bair and
see the Narrows in the distance. To see whaf
remains of “The Pine,” and look down once
again on the plain at Suvla Bay, where the
unfortunate Tommies copped it from Johnno
Turk on the surrounding ridges. To make an
Anzac-rissole out of tinned-beef and Army
biscuit pounded up, and boil the billy while
looking out over the blue ,/Egean, with Imbros
and Achi Baba in the distance.
Something like that would be a dinkum Anzac
Day celebration, and surely the R.S.L. should
be able to arrange it. The Federal Government
(fountain of all beneficence) might sling in a
few bob towards the cost.
Nothing elaborate in the way of accommoda-
tion aboard ship would be required. Some-
thing a little better than troopship conditions
would suffice; we wouldn’t want air-condi-
tioned suites, complete with private baths. The
ship could be run on military lines, with some
sort of mild discipline, and the cost kept to
the minimum. What about having a look at
it, R.S.L. ?
I’ve got me Crown and Anchor board ready.
A BORDER BALLAD
“Two semi-trailer loads of Victorian onions
for Sydney, which Onion Board officers tried
to seize, left Melbourne at 4.30 p.m., followed
by representatives of buyers, sellers and trans-
port-owners, and crossed the Victorian border
at 5.30 a.m.”
Oh, some with a sigh *r a loud war-cry
Go down to dusty death.
But give me a guy who’s prepared to die
With onion on his breath !
“Oh, who is awed by the Onion Board ?
And who’s of stouter kidney?
Melburnians all, will you hear the call
Of the starving folk in Sydney ?”
Two trailers-full of onions pull
Out of the town by night.
Driving hard, with a bodyguard
Following full of fight.
“Oh who are they who stand in our way ?
And who are these marauders?
Brave hearts I’ve led, whom Onion fed.
Repel those Onion-Boarders!”
And as Queen Bess said, more or less,
When Spanish hopes were shattered,
The guards breathed all they knew;
then blew —
And their enemies were scattered!
So here’s to trade that shall be free
And Section 92 ;
And Melbourne, may you smell to me
As Sydney smells to you!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


V/ICTORIAN flower-growers always
* exploit Christmas Day, Mother’s
Day and Father’s Day, but once more
they have failed to exploit May Day. In
Paris the florists do a roaring trade in
red geraniums for the revolutionists and
white ones for the conservatives. In
Australia why not pink gladioli for
bishops, professors and other fellow-
travellers? —“Spasebo.”
' * ❖
“Uramao”: The motorbike on which
Lawrence of Arabia (B. 31/3/’54) met
his death was the anonymous gift of
Bernard and Charlotte Shaw. In Virgil,
Jupiter sent a little bird to dash itself
against the shield of Turnus in his last
fight with Tineas, as a warning of death.
"We may not become world-famous , but at least we’ll improve our poise."
In the case of Lawrence, for three weeks
before his death his highly-strung'nature
was frayed to pieces by a bird tapping
incessantly with its beak on the window
at which he was writing. If he moved to
another window the bird followed. One
morning, irritated beyond endurance,
Lawrence jumped on his motorbike and
tore away. A friend saw what the trouble
was, and shot the bird dead. At that in-
stant Lawrence was flung 60ft. head-first
on to the granite-hard tarmac.
“Suburbia”: That antique habit, offer-
ing a seat to feeble old men, or to women
past their sixtieth blush, has long been
scorned in the later-morning trains of the
white-collar boys. Strange that the habit
still lingers in the earlierrmorning trains
of the no-collar boys: the more remark-
able as many white-collars sit down to
their work, whereas most no-collars have
to stand all day.
“Narumee”: An echo
of the air disaster
at Singapore—an air-
letter and a second-
class airmail packet of
Royal-tour newspaper-
cuttings, sent on the ill-
fated Constellation,
both reached their des-
tination in England.
My correspondents
wrote that the letter
and packet were intact,
though badly stained,
and the envelopes were
stamped “Salvaged mail
from crashed aircraft,
Singapore.” Appreciat-
ing the gallantry of
those who got the mail-
bags out of that inferno,
I can’t help wondering
if human beings could
not be protected by
some kind of fireproof
covering at least as ade-
quately as flimsy bits of
paper.
“Strobe”: A peaceable application of
radioactivity was seen at the opening of
the Shell Co.’s new'pipeline from the
Geelong (Vic.) refinery to Newport, a
distance of about 30 miles. A plunger
was run along the pipes to clean off any
rust; to keep a check on the plunger’s
“position a radioactive capsule was fitted
to it. The engineer then followed it along
in a car with a geiger-counter.
*
“Vee 8”: Any recent Aussie scroung-
ing would appear to be hereditary. When
our brigade of artillery had to move from
Ypres to the Somme area in 1917 we had
three or four horses to the gun or wagon
instead of six; so we acquired a few on
the way, attracting the attention of
picquets at one end of horse-lines while the
wanted animals were removed at the
other end. Towards the end of the show
there was so much of this Ned Kelly con-
duct that Army orders placed the onus
on any O.C. to explain his unit’s posses-
sion of stolen animals. For which reason
one of our battery-commanders found
himself under arrest. But as battery-
strength was at that time reduced to three
officers, and as he was in charge in the
line at Passchendaele and could not
remain in charge while under arrest,
proof was soon forthcoming that the
animals had “strayed” to their new
owners.
* ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: A good example of the diffi-
culty of finding an example to fit a defini-
tion is the decision of a magistrate to
regard a mural in a cafe as obscene
because the picture “made no attempt to
hide any portion of the human body.”
This makes the Greek Aphrodite at the
National Gallery in Melbourne an ob-
scene statue and those respectable gentle-
men the trustees, as publishers, liable
for obscene libel. Possibly this is why
it has been hidden away from the public
gaze for the past five years.
* A -
“0.W.W.”: During the post-war years
three Wellington (N.Z.) hotels (the Cecil
“Do I bump her off in this scene or the next?”
and two of the best private-hotels, the
Winsor and Grand Central) have closed
their doors, and one of the oldest-estab-
lished, the Empire; is to be converted into
office-accommodation later this year.
Reason given for this last is that the
Empire, with its many rambling old bars
and outdated style of bedrooms, cannot
be modernised. Seeing the Empire is
graded five stars (very nearly the highest
an N.Z. hotel can secure) many are won-
dering why such an old-fashioned layout
achieved such high rating in the first
place.
❖ ❖
TRUST IN THE THEATRE-TRUST
LETTERS praising the establishment
of the Elizabethan Theatre Trust are
appearing every day in the papers; but
what must be the activity behind the
scenes, as it were, of those anxious to
see that the trust’s hoped-for £lOO,OOO is
administered to the fullest advantage?
What must be the correspondence to the
worthy founders and high officers of the
trust? I have ventured to extract three
samples of letters which have not been
sent, and offer them here as evidence of
the tremendous public interest which the
trust has created.
James Prescoe.
Mr. Warwick Fairfax,
c/o “The Sydney Morning Herald,”
SYDNEY.
Dear Mr. Fairfax,
As hon. sec. of the Koala Players’
Club, I think your Elizabethan Theatre
Trust is the best thing since Captain
Cook; and in soliciting its aid I beg to
submit my committee’s programme. We
would begin with performances of the two
plays by your good self which have
already been done in Sydney—only, of
course, with trust backing we should be
able to do them so much better than was
possible for a mere individual such as
you.
Not only this, but my committee has
decided to invite that incisive critic Pro-
fessor A. D. Hope, whose work you may
be familiar with through the pages of
your paper, to criticise them.
So much for service to Art. But you
must not think us totally oblivious of
financial considerations. My committee
has further decided to follow your two
plays with a series of really good plays
that can make use of the same scenery,
and not only recoup our losses, but give
us a substantial reserve of working capital
and at the same time enable us to repay
the trust the amount (We consider
£50,000 would be a fair figure) advanced
to us.
Hoping this scheme will meet with your
approval,
Yours faithfully,
J. Solway Winterbottom.
Sir John Latham,
South Yarra,
MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir John,
Your Elizabethan Theatre Trust is the
best thing since a.d. 1,
When Chief Justice' of the High Court,
you mu§t often have felt that, in the
absence of a genuine Australian theatre,
our law-courts have had to bear far too
much the strain of entertaining the
public; a task for which they have been
from the first unfitted, and in which u °ir
greatest successes have often een
achieved at something close to an abroga-
tion of their legal functions. Nor has
the subject-matter oj: the more popular
legal cases been always as edifying as
might have been desired.
Let us pray that the Theatre Trust may
never be abused to the purposes of that
Mammon who every day, more and more,
spreads his tentacles over this fair land
of ours!
Should you be interested, I shall afford
you the details of a scheme for a series
of play-productions upon religious themes
—the whole scheme should not require
the outlay of more than £50,000 —with
the object of saving the Australian
theatre, and the Australian community,
from the materialistic and spiritualistic
rationalism which menaces us at every
turn, and is to be found in the highest
as well as the lowest places.
Yours faithfully,
(Rev.) Habbakuk Smith.
• • • • • '
Dr. H. C. Coombs,
Governor,
The Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
SYDNEY.
Dear Dr. Coombs,
As a playwright and student of econo-
mics, I consider your Elizabethan Theatre
Trust the best thing since King O’Malley.
But is the country awake to the problem?
As economists, you and I know that
neither the commercial nor repertory
theatre dramatists have been game to
tackle the basic Australian dramatic pro-
blem, the problem of bringing home to
the public the necessity for immediately
implementing the Douglas Social Credit
scheme.
My play deals with this great scheme in
a human, social, and intensely dramatic
manner. 1 enclose a typescript of it.
Once you see its purport I feel that you
will be as eager as I to see it staged in
a befitting manner —I estimate that
£50,000 would enable us to do it tardy
justice. For I have had it by me for
twenty years.
But this is not all. You and I know
that though Commonwealth banknotes
are not worth the paper they are written
on. they assume great value in the eyes
of the theatre-going public. You must
have a lot of old ones lying around at
the bank, and what I suggest is that you
should send me a cartload to distribute
as souvenirs to all who attend perform-
ances of my play. This is something that
has never been done before, a novelty
likely to attract considerable attendances,
and it would have the extra advantage of
putting my play into practice, becoming
a valuable experiment in the extension of
credit to the community from which
who knows what might flow.
Yours faithfully,
Hiram SzchlerowtVsk.
NO APPRECIATION
“Even in the atomic age the beauties of
Nature still demand and get full r 600^111^ 1 ;
Though it may seem hopelessly outmoded, tne
poet can still sing of the dewy morn.
“Literary Digest.”
You couldn’t be feeling much duller,
Your tongue is a dark-brownish color.
And it seems, too, that inside your skull a
Large egg-whisk’s revolving at speed;
The “screws” have your pins in a tangle.
Your spine’s at a queer sort of angle,
As if you’ve been fed through a mangle;
But, still, to arise you proceed.
As you swing out your shanks
You profanely proclaim
Morn a hell of a time . . .
Well, you’re one of those cranks,
For the poet will name
It a time that’s sublime.
Your eyeballs are both misbehaving
As you focus them on to your shaving;
With a shudder you face up to laving —
All this you 'perform in a trance.
You feel like a fowl that is moulting;
At breakfast you’ve just time for bolting
Some mess that’s distinctly revolting;
And likely as not it wilt chance
When your paper you get
That reduced it has been
To a rain-sodden mass.
Bard, get out in the wet
If on morn you’re so keen!
Get bronchitis, you ass!
The garbage- and milk-cans a-clatter,
Loud whistling of some upstairs-flatter.
The roosters, the kids —they all shatter
The morn, rosy morn, of the bard!
Danny Deever, a gibbet adorning,
Had his neck elongated one morning.
It’s unlikely he rhapsodised “dawning” —
A time of the day evil-starred —
A ny more than you do
When the party ends late
And your motor conks out,
And you find that you’re due
For a walk, in that state.
For no taxi’s about.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


You can relii on
G®
'pressurised"
m
mi
16 MILLION MILES OF SAFE FLYING
40,000 flights . . . 520 million passenger miles . . . over a million passengers
carried safely to their destination. That is the unequalled record of TAA’s 5
pressurised Convair-liners. You can have complete confidence in TAA Convairs.
-IU-P
Just phone BO 526 or any authorised Travel Agent.
i I 7
N
COWVfIIR
/
X
MPN^Sp
PERSONAL ITEMS
Now in the thick of one of his biggest
designing jobs—chairmanship of the
Fourth Architectural Convention in
Sydney—H, Ingham Ashworth hails from
Manchester, and for many years lectured
in his subject at London University. He
took the Chair of Architectural Design
and History at Sydney University in 1949.
In between these appointments he re-
versed his role for four years—doing a
bit of destroying in Burma and Arakan,
lieutenant-colonel with Slim’s 14th Army.
He’s an expert on the planning and
equipping of flats.
• •
“Robbie”: George Pape, named one
of counsel to the Petrov Royal Commis-
sion, first put on wig and gown about
1918, as “counsel for the defence” in a
mock trial at St. Kilda’s All Saints Gram-
mar School. His grasp of detail secured
ah acquittal, in spite of strong contrary
evidence by a witness, Frank Richardson,
lately Sir Frank and then prophetically
billed as a “businessman.”
• •
Youngish-looking, with a pleasant
speaking-voice. Dr. D. E. Thomas, in
common with his staff at the State Mines
Department in Melbourne, is being inun-
dated with inquiries from would-be pros-
pectors clamoring to drive pegs in on
the new uranium field at Inglewood, near
Bendigo. A Taffy, Thomas left Wales for
Tasmania 27 years ago, and, after a term
in the Department of Education, became
PROSPECTORS
chief geologist for the’ Apple Island.
Then the Victorian State Rivers and
Water Supply Commission asked him to
take charge of the preparatory work for
the big Eildon Weir project. That fin-
ished, he was appointed State Govern-
ment Geologist. He believes it is still
too early to say how good the Inglewood
find will turn out, but it seems the most
promising of the State’s several known
deposits.
• •
“Macnell”: As g.-m. of Williamstown
Naval Dockyard, Captain Wilson, R.A.N.
(with the good engineering Christian
monickers of Gordon McDougall), had a
good deal to do with the construction of
destroyer-cruiser Vendetta, latest of the
R.A.N.’s new Darings to taste salt. He
has been mixed-up with boilers, turbines
and such for the past 30 years, almost all
of it in destroyers. He stood-by the
building of Nizam in Scotland, and
watched over her later severe trials—the
Crete evacuation, the Tobruk spud-run
and many Malta convoys. D.S.C. for it.
He finished his War II seagoing in sister-
ship Napier, and was beside Mrs. Waller,
widow of Captain Hec Waller, of Stuart
(Matapan) and Perth (Java Sea) legend,
when she sent the new Vendetta seawards,
• •
New Director of Airways Engineering,
in the Department of Civil Aviation,
David Medley, has been engineeering with
the department since 1947. Before that
mixed-up with radar in the War II R.A.N.,
he’s a son of Sir John.
On his third Australian visit in five
years Dr. A. M. Bailey, director of the
Denver (U.S.A.) Museum of Natural
History, is more fascinated than ever
with our flora and fauna. On his previ-
ous visits he took photographs and made
background studies for his museum, a
third of which is ultimately to be devoted
to Australiana. Walt Disney’s prize-win-
ning film, “The Water Birds,” contained
a lot of Bailey’s camera-jottings.
• •
“Fitz”: Passed on in Melbourne at 79, Louis
Politzer was still hard at it in literary activities
up to the end. For Melbourne University
Press he had just completed the translation
of -two German books by Stefan von Kotze —
The Antipodes: Sketches from Down Under
and The Dawn of Culture in Papua, or
South Sea Memories, to be published shortly
in one volume. Stefan von Kotze was a Ger-
man who spent many years in Australia and
the Pacific, and who wrote a lot for The
Bulletin. Politzer edited The Leichhardt
Letters, published in 1935, a translation of
von Kotze’s Australian Sketches, published ten
years ago, ■ and a ‘ book of verse of his own
called Autumn Leaves, which was illustrated by
Harold Herbert.
Also, Politzer had published bibliographies of
German, French and Dutch writings about
Australia, and a bibliography of literature
relating to Leichhardt. At his death he was
preparing an enormous bibliography of scien-
tific pamphlets and articles on the Australian
aborigine.
Born in Munich, Politzer came to Australia
in 1910. In Germany he had been journalist,
bookseller, publisher and art- and antiques-
dealer. In Melbourne he had conducted an art-
gallery, and dabbled in color-photography, made
artificial-marble floors, been in the film business,
and introduced paperbag-cookery.
Melbourne bohemians of a past generation
retain pleasant memories of his Caf6 Boulevard,
in a basement near-the “Age” office in Collins-
street. In its heyday “Polly’s” rivalled Fasoli’s
as a rendezvous for Melbourne writers and
artists, and “Polly” staked many a hungry
artist and scribe short of the price of a feed.
A lot of Bulletin prose, verse and art was
born at Polly’s.
• •
Awards for gallant and distinguished
service in Malaya have landed on the
competent shoulders of two Australian
flying men there. • Air-Vice-Marshal
Frederick Scherger, Air Officer Command-
ing, gets C. 8.; Group-Captain Claude
Champion de Crespigny, boss of the
R.A.F. station at Tengah, C.B.E.
• •
“C. 8.”; Inaugurated five years ago,
the “Soirees Musicales,” which provide
chamber-music in private homes on Sun-
day evenings, have become an integral
part of the musical life of Melbourne and
have drawn in such distinguished name’s
as Eugene Goossens, Juan Jose Castro,
Bernard Heinze and Walter Susskind, the
last-named having been invited to par-
ticipate in the opening programme of the
current season. Founder and director is
Mischa Kogan, whose viola has long been
an important part of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra, and who was previously
a member of the Sissermann Quartet.
Kogan, who hails from pre-Soviet Russia,
tells a story about Koussevitzky, the
Tsarist conductor, who took a fancy to
a girl and she to him. After a while he
decided to break, telling her he couldn’t
be a conductor and a married man at the
same time. She went weeping to her
wealthy father, who called on Kousse-
vitzky and said, “What’s this I hear about
your not being able to marry my
daughter?” “Well, I want to be a con-
ductor and I can’t if I marry her,” said
Koussevitzky. “What nonsense,” said the
father. “I’ll buy you an orchestra.” And
he did, and everybody lived happily
ever after. Mischa Kogan hasn’t had that
sort of success; all he has got has been
through his own effort.
• •
Another honor for Sir Frank Macfar-
lane Burnet—Fellowship' of the Royal
College of Physicians in Edinburgh.
Except for two short breaks when he was
in England he has been studying viruses
at the Walter and Eliza ever since he
joined it as a junior in 1923, meanwhile
making himself a world-authority on in-
fectious diseases. His most recent find-
ings are described in a just-published
Pelican-series Penguin, Viruses and Man.
“Cauboy”: Gilsullivanites are likely to
be in large numbers at Her Majesty s,
Melbourne, when “Pineapple Poll” is
danced by the Borovansky Ballet. The
young S’African who composed the
ballet, John Cranko, drew heavily on
the Savoy Operas for his melodies, and
the tunes of Sullivan sparkle through it.
Arrangement was by Charles Mackerras,
who used to play the oboe for Sydney
Symphony Orchestra and has now been
appointed the first permanent conductor
of the 8.8. C, concert orchestra. Cranko
will fly to Melbourne to supervise the
ballet.
• •
“Stromlo”: One of the most untiring
•researchers into facts and recollections
of the two big wars is A. W. Bazley,
whose • post at the National War
Memorial, Canberra, follows logically
the work he did with G. E. Bean in
France in the 1914-18 show. One of his
outside responsibilities is associate-editor-
ship of “Stand-to,” journal of the A.C.T.
branch of the R.S.L. He is in a position
to see and meet many of the great who
have taken part in those wars, as well as
rank-and-filers with good stories in their
diaries or snapshot albums ; hence the
remarkably high standard of contribu-
tions. The most recent issue, for ex-
ample, includes an article by Major-
General Sir Howard Kippenberger on
the New Zealand attack on Bellevue
Ridge; a vivid description (with maps
and drawings) of the Malayan epic of
Gemencheh-Gemas by Sgt. Stan Arneil;
some reminiscences by Oliver Holt and a
report Of some outspoken statements by
the Governor-General, “Baz” has hopes
that future issues will appear more fre-
quently and will enable him to make
public some of the wealth of historical
material at his disposal.
• •
A short, stockily-built man walks pur-
posefully on to the concert-platform,
bows gravely to the body of the hall,
repeats it to all points of the compass,
then moves to the piano and plays the
National Anthem in the most deliberate
and sonorous manner of any visiting
artist. These are the unmistakable pre-
liminaries of Solomon, the great English
pianist at present touring Australia,
caught here by Prior during rehearsal.
Solomon —he is never known profes-
sionally in any other way, though it is
actually his first-name —first fingered a
keyboard at the ripe age of four. Three
years later he was a pro., making his
debut with the Queen’s Hall Orchestra,
London, on a piano specially built for
PIANIST
him. By the time he was 12 he had
mastered 10 concert!. Two years later
someone wisely prised him off the con-
cert-platform and thus probably saved
another genius from being burnt-out
before manhood. He didn’t reappear till
he was 19, since when he has been one of
the world’s most-sought-after virtuosi, his
playing noted for its warmth and refine-
ment.
When Captain John Ward was intr„
duced to Ted Scorfield at The Bullet?'
office the two of them lapsed into
sounded like the distorted sound-track of
a Russian film, but what they claimed?
the purest English spoken. It was annar
ently the mother-tongue of those born
around Tyneside, the district which n rQ
duced both Ward and Scorfield and also
the oil-tanker William G. Walkley th
PETROL
skipper’s newest command. Captain
Ward has spent all his nautical life in
tankers, and knows the oil-ports of the
Gulf of Mexico as well as he knows
those of the Persian Gulf, which he first
visited in 1926 and from which he will
now be bringing regular cargoes. During
the war he received a special commenda-
tion from the U.S. Navy for his skilful
handling of his ship. Empire Cavalier,
when the convoy in which she was travel-
ling struck trouble near Gibraltar. Later
he commanded Empire Saturn, an escort-
oiler engaged in refuelling warships at
sea.
• •
“Junius” (California); Noted with re-
gret the passing of Garnet Leary, M.D.
(B. 17/3/’s4>, He was one of six
brothers, all M.D.s. I knew him in Mel-
bourne and in the U.S., also two of his
brothers in Durban and London—the
other three were scattered round the
world. Garnet used to say “If anybody
gets sick on this earth a Doc. Leary is
always on hand.” He also told me that
his family of O’Learys dropped the “0”
after Mrs. O’Leary’s cow kicked over the
lamp which burnt-out Chicago in the
1870’s.
« •
Into the Silence:
At 61, at Boisdale (Vic.), Askin Ormond
Foster, pastoralist. Old Digger and grandson
of the founder of Ormond College, University
of Melbourne. Boisdale was settled by the
family in 1841, and was the first property to
be cut up under the Closer Settlement Act,
when 32 farms were built on it. It is now a
dairying district.
In Bristol (Eng.), at 79, Lieut.-Colonel
Frederick William Bell, V.C., leaving two sur-
viving Australian V.C.-winners of the Boer
War. Bell won his Cross with the Westrahan
Mounted Infantry in 1901, went on to soldier
in War I, then returned to Africa, Sanders-oi-
the-Rivering in Somaliland, Kenya and Nigeria,
retiring to settle down in England_ in 1925.
In Brisbane, at 94, Thomas Walter Newton-
New Zealand-born, he was the first white ctu
to live in Southern Central Otago. At 14
shipped to the Antarctic in an old sealer-wna ,
was shipwrecked, returned to N.Z., tooK v
surveying and was the first man to ciun
lofty mountain in the Southern Alps _ east
Hokitika—mountain and range now bear
name. After a turn in Tasmania he sm
to Queensland, Inspecting Engineer ot K
for the Lands Department. The mam s
in Monto (Q.) is another memorial to> ,
name, as are to his work the Spnngbrook
and a considerable section of the Pacino
way in Southern Queensland. Last n
was admitted to membership of the Aus
Geographical Society.
In Sydney, Henry Wilton Robinson, of
gal (western N.S.W.), who worked up - a
jackerooing and bullocking to owner
turn, of eight sizeable sheep properties, v
ising in high-class Merinos, he foundea, sti] j
a flock of Wanganella blood, which to- 2 ter-
retains the original strain. He was wid y
ested in local political and civic associa


DISCORDANT NOTE


ABORIGINALITIES
TVTEWS can still take its own good time
in the Bush. On my way to the
Benedictine Monastery at New Norcia
(W.A.) I was advised by the proprietress
of the pub at which I was staying to
call on Father Henry. “Just dig him
up,” she said, “and you’ll be sure of a
fine welcome,” And that is literally
what I would have had to do ; for of
Father Henry I could find no trace until
I met a lay-brother who said “Father
Henry? Hola! He’s been dead since
fifteen years!”—“Nimrod.”
“Bert the Carpenter”; Back in 1939 I
bought a of tablecloths woven
from glass-fibres.' The stuff had a silk-
like sheen, and anything whatever spilt
on it would wash out with cold water
and the fabric couldn’t be harmed. It
was eyen fireproof. “But,” objected my
wife, “they won’t lie flat on the table,
and ironing has no effect on the
wrinkles.” They were stowed away in a
cupboard, to be used only when I was left
to batch. Now I’ve parted with them.
My wife was away and I had a cobber
to tea. Naturally I used one of those
unharmable tablecloths. My cobber, who
makes archery gear, got quite excited.
“Glass cloth!” he said eagerly. “The
best backing on earth for bows! Won-
derfully elastic and strong as steel-wire! ”
He insisted on buying them at double
what I’d paid for them. Subsequent in-
quiries showed that they went off the
market long ago. “Women wouldn’t have
anything to do with them,” the same
salesman told me. “Didn’t matter if they
were proof against anything, from white-
ants to battery-acid. They wouldn’t lie
flat on the table, and that was fatal.”
* * * #
“Gelt”; “Birdie” Heron couldn’t have
been the “original planter” who used his
glass-eye as an overseer of his native
laborers (B. 31/3/’54), though the action
would be in true Heronesque character.
I first heard the yarn from a German
planter in New Guinea back in 1911,
and another version down in the Solo-
mons in 1915. “Birdie” didn’t arrive in
T.N.G. until 1921 or 1922, when he
joined the Expropriation Board as a
plantation overseer, I have an idea Jack.
London included the yarn in one of his
books during the Snark tour in the Solo-
mons, which would be about 1910. Inci-
dentally, N.G. natives are not the only
folk to be astounded by such artificial
appendages. More than once during my
three and a half years as an enforced
guest of the Japs in RabauLl avoided
a belting from low-ranking Nips by
shooting out my tats at the psychological
moment, immediately becoming the
centre of astonished interest,
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”; An ancient relative
who maintained to the last a deep dis-
trust of banks had a unique safe-deposit
in the efficiency of which he had a
touching and, as it turned out, quite
justified faith. When leaving his hut.he
used to put all his notes into rubber-
bags, which he would cram into the toes
of old boots green with age and minus
the laces, then stand at the door and
throw his life-savings as far into the
paddock as possible. But, then, he was
lucky. Once he lost a tobacco-tin which
contained his shearing-roll of £80; it lay
on the roadside until picked up and
returned to him by an honest neighbor.
* * * *
“Villefair”; Ran into a city friend
the other week. He told me with de-
light: “Gave a young bloke a job aboqt
a month ago and he’s turned out a beaut
—willing, anxious to learn, quick on the
"Have a spell, Mac—that pig's about cured."
up-take, never late, doesn’t haggle over
a couple of minutes’ overtime. And
reliable! Gripes, I could leave the garage
for a week and he’d run it for me. But,
of course, he’s a boy from the bush, not
like these city-bred no-hopers.” Yester-
day I got a letter from a mate in the
country. “... . And things are a lot
easier on the farm now this young fel-
low’s come.. It makes all the difference
when you’ve gdt someone who’ll do what
you tell him instead of arguing the toss
that it’s not the way his old man used to
“Once I got my strangehold it was curtains for him."
do it. Buf that’s the best of getting a city
lad; they’re out to learn, and they’re
reliable.”
* * *
$ ' %
“W.P.T.”: Do axemen nowadays ever
practise that piece of delicate craftsman-
ship known as a “cut-tail”? A piece of
timber about the size of a shingle would
be split into “leaves,” the blade being
stopped short so that the back would be
the spine of a “book.” The expert could
split the leaves so thin they could be
flicked over Hke paper pages.
* * ♦ «
“Mark Thru Star”: An original Anzac
giving a Brisbane paper his recollections
of the Landing repeated a fallacy about
enemy ammunition on the Peninsula. He
said the Turks used bullets that exploded
in the air after they had travelled a set’
distance. Nothing would have been
gained by such a complicated projectile.
That Australians believed it was used is
a reminder that some effects of super-
sonic speed were noticed before the
arrival of jet aircraft. A high-velocity
rifle-bullet, emerging from the muzzle at
a speed more than twice that of sound,
immediately bursts the sound-barrier with
a sharp crack. The sound of the explosion
of the propellant charge is a deep thud,
distinct from that made by the bullet
striking the air. A person standing at the
side of a rifle-range between firer and
target hears a whole succession of crack-
ing sounds as the bullet passes. Similarly
the marker in the butts hears a sharp
crack overhead, followed by the deeper
report of the rifle. No effective silencer
can be made for a military rifle because,
while the report of the rifle can be silenced
easily enough, this has no effect on the
sound made by the bullet.
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”; There are genuine horse-
lovers (B. 24/3/’54). I knew one who
had a farm in the S.A. Mallee. His
team of draughts was his pride. Eventu-
ally he had to buy a tractor in order to
keep up with the times, but that team
didn’t go to the saleyards. For years
you could see nine mud-fat draughts on
the property, doing nothing save graze
in the best paddocks. “They’ve earned
it a hundred times over,” the old chap
would say if anyone commented on this
waste of fodder. And for mass horse-
loving there has been no finer example
than the British society that was formed
after World War I to buy back, with
funds raised by public subscription, all
the horses the Army had sold to Arab
buyers. It had nearly broken the hearts
of our Light Horsemen to think of the
cruelties their mounts would suffer at the
hands of the Arabs.
“X.S.”: Shades of Ned Kelly! Our
local horse-thief pinched a horse and
jinker and sold them in another district.
He was caught and charged, and while
out on bail pinched and sold the evidence,
which was waiting in the police-yard for
the trial. He hasn’t been seen since.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Because supplies of
fresh water in its south-west could sup-
port a population of only about 4,000,000,
W.A. is to try a new scheme for taking
the salts out of brackish water. Called
electrodialysis, it’s based on the principle
that salts in solution break into two com-
ponents, one of which, when electrified,
becomes positively, and the other nega-
tively, charged. Take table-salt (sodium
chloride), which comprises three-
quarters of the salt in W.A.’s brackish
water. In solution this divides into ions.
When a voltage is applied to the solution,
sodium, with a positive charge, becomes
an anion ; chlorine, negatively charged,
is a cation. All other salts behave the
same way. In the demineralising plant
the water is passed through a cell to
which a direct-current voltage is applied.
The cell is divided into a number of
compartments; these are separated by
permeable membranes, so constructed
that one will pass cations, but only in
one direction, while the next will pass
anions, also only in one direction. Thus
the salts become concentrated in each
alternate compartment, while the others
contain comparatively fresh water.
There’s more to it than that, but that’s
the general idea. The plant reduces the
salt-content from 300 grains a gallon to
about 40. That’s good water for humans.
If tfie pilot-plant works under field con-
ditions the British firm that’s making it
will start on commercial models, and
the water-shortage should end for W.A.’s
country towns, most of which have sup-
plies of brackish water in underground
streams, but little fresh. A commercial
plant about the size of the pilot-plant,
that will turn out 250ga1. a day, will
probably also be made for individual
farmers who have their own lighting-
plant.
THE ARMY COOKS
Now Napoleon made an axiom, which is wise
and very true,
That an army marches better when it’s tummy’s
full of stew,
And the king-pins of the unit, it is written in
the books,
Are those greasy, dirty fellows that the company
knew as cooks.
They were spared bom drill and worry, they
were set aside like casks;
In the first Anzac battalions they were detailed
to their tasks —
They learnt their cooking slowly, by the trial-
and-error way
And insults plenty came to them on each
menu for the day.
First of all their dishes was the good old shadow-
stew
With some chops and onions floating in the
greasy yellow brew,
Their coffee in the morning was laced with
Epsom-salts
And the tea was full of bromide to correct
prospective faults.
The porridge., when we got it, was a mass of
mealy glue,
Which the Diggers said would fix them and a
punctured tyre, too.
We got bacon salt and fatty, all the lean bad
boiled away—
The cooks and sergeants got it, so oft we used
to say.
It was months before the bully changed to
tasty sausage-meat;
It was years before our cookies did their most
prodigious feat
Of making good old dumplings fit for stew or
treacle-duff —
They were learning, oh, how slowly, but in time
they did their stuff.
Oh, many were the insults hurled upon our
“babbling brooks”;
Their clothes were unhygienic and they never
washed their docks;
Still they did well with the rations, and
augmented them with care
By bandicooting murphies from the Froggies’
hidden lair.
Yes, our poor hard-worked old cookies, whom
we’d written down as fools,
Often gave us extra rations hashed from other
units’ mules;
They gave away no mysteries, just swiped
whate’er they could
From chooks and ducks to horses, from
broccoli to the spud.
Oft we swore the stew was flavored by their
boiled-up overalls,
We greeted their best efforts with the foulest
rude catcalls;
But beneath our' rudest insults, whilst we
satirised their art,
Still we felt for them real mateship in a corner
of our heart.
N.S.W.
T. A. HOPE.


PERFECTION for new engines
PROTECTION for old
m
m
m
RECOMMENDED BY
ROLLS-ROYCE
OMPANIONS
)/7
change
a
ipanion
OR SPIRIT at
r an
INDEPENDENT
c SERVICE STATION >
I
THE GOO
For top-up o;
choose ENE
the ‘Good C|.
of C.O.R
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.) ci66
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
ow.ts6.ia
I HAD turned my dairy-herd on to a
paddock of shoulder-high Rhodes-
grass which was in heavy seed. After a
two-weeks’ spell of cloudy weather inter-
spersed with drizzling rain every cow in
the herd had half an inch of bright-
green grass growing on her head near
the base of the horns V The seed, of
course, had lodged there as they grazed
and the favorable conditions caused it to
germinate.—“S. Cane.”
♦♦• ‘ v
“L.R.M.”: Single men in Wittenoom
(W.A.), where they hunt the blue
asbestos, are comfortably provided for.
Among other privileges, they are allowed
free electric-current. In consequence,
their huts are well equipped with electric-
fans, -radiators, -stoves and radios. Some,
however, try to by-pass even the expense
of the gadgets, as did the fellow who
decided the cheapest way to boil a copper
was to make his own immersion-heater.
Others had done it before, so he was
highly surprised when the whole electrical
system of Wittenoom was thrown out of
commission. His patent was a very
simple one —merely a pick-head wired at
each end and flung into a copperful of
water.
* * * *
“Gunyah”: I wouldn’t dream of send-
ing my alarm-clock to the vet. when it
breaks a main-spring (B. 28/4/’54). I
simply yank the back off, drag the spring
out and soften the snapped ends over a
gas-jet, bend them into opposed hooks
and catch the hooks together under ten-
sion. After an unpredictable period
(usually during winter) the spring snaps
again, when I repeat the operation, per-
force shortening the intestine each time.
My present clock has been thrice doc-
tored in this way, and, while it now
dawdles and requires winding twice a day,
provided I set it fast enough at night it
always awakens me on the dot in the
morning—curse it!
• * * *
“8.A.K.”: Mac is a carpenter of the
old school, and his work is his pride, but
to ageing eyes a figure-seven on a faded
blueprint can easily look like a nine. The
architect’s offsider —very young, unsure
of himself, and therefore aggressively
anxious to demonstrate his complete self-
assurance —discovered the mistake and
promptly began to make the most of it.
Old Mac let him have his head for long
enough, then, with neither defiance nor
abjectness, drawled: “Well, laddie, the
mistake was mine, and I’ll be the one
who’ll remedy it; that covers everything,
doesn’t it?” “That’s all very well,”
blustered the junior, “but we can’t go
round making mistakes like that. Where
would the job be if we started making
mistakes?” Mac shook his grey head
reprovingly. “You’ve got four pencils
sticking out of your breast-pocket,
laddie,” he said gently, “and three of ’em
have rubbers on the end. When they stop
putting rubbers on drawing-pencils and
start putting ’em on carpenters’-pencils
you’ll have a pretty good argument.”
“W.J.W.”: The
theory that mountains
once covered practic-
ally the whole of Cen-
tral Australia is sup-
ported by a wealth of
data. Geologists claim
that in Cretaceous
times there must have
been a tremendous
subsidence of parts
adjacent to Lake
Eyre; they back that
claim with the fact
that bores in north-
east South Australia
have been sunk 5000 ft. through
clayey sediment without striking bed-
rock. From that they deduce a sub-
sidence to that depth, and “there must
have been a very rapid waste of the
adjacent highlands in providing material
equal to the filling-up of so vast a basin.”
Further proof comes from the ranges
whose “stumps” can be seen to-day. One
of those “stumps,” Mt. Ziel, in the
Mac Donnell Ranges, is nearly 5000 ft.
above sea-level, and there are several
others nearly as high. That’s higher than
the average Australian “mountains.”
Examination of a relief-map of the con-
tinent will show that the bulk of the
high land in Australia —from 1200 ft. to
3000 ft. and over —lies in a huge block
which takes in all of central Westralia
and extends more than half-way across
the Northern Territory and into South
Australia. There’s more high land in that
area than in all the rest of the continent.
Doesn’t that suggest a mountain chain?
* * * *
“Kelms”: A Mullewa (W.A.) stock-
man is rounding-up goats to be slaugh-
tered and shipped to Singapore. At fifteen-
bob a head he expects to make it pay,
and the local Road Board is weighing-in
with another bob a tail, the goats being
considered vermin. Round there they’re
a pest all right. They live where cattle
and sheep would starve. During a
drought they eat everything down to
ground-level, and country on which
goats have found it hard to live is never
any good again. Such a “goat desert”
provides a first-class start for erosion,
They’ve even been known to destroy
forests by killing the young growth and
ruining big trees. But the fact remains
they’re good eating, and in any other
country they’d be a welcome change
“Is this the ‘Fairy Meadows' property that's for sale?"
on the menu. They’ll herd —sometimes
better than sheep—and packed into
refrigerator-trucks they could be in some
of the inland towns within a few hours,
and the coastal cities in a day. When I
worked on the Radio mine some years
back a fine herd of goats were being run
on Mt. Jackson station as an experiment;
the country was too dry and hot for cattle.
Don’t know how the goats turned out,
but —from this distance —I can say they
were damn’ good eating.
• • * *
Abos As Spearmen
THAT statement by “Fair Mac” (B.
21/4/’54) that “as a spearman the
abo. was not a particularly good indi-
vidual marksman” doesn’t accord with
my personal observations going back 40
years. I found Binghi, in fact, accur-
ate with a spear, up to 50yds., as the
better-than-average white man is with a
rifle. At that distance he was deadly.
He’d hit a flying turkey nine times out of
ten, and with the aid of a woomera he’d
hurl the spear straight through a kanga-
roo or emu. And he was just as accurate
with a woomera as without it.
A spear was as dear to a bush native
as a rifle is to a marksman. He loved it,
I’ve seen a native fashioning a spear.
After he had pared it and shaped it, and
hard-pointed it in a fire, he’d feel it for
balance. When he thought it was right
he’d hurl it, and if he missed an inch-
thick sapling at 30 paces he knew it was
faulty. He also knew just where to pare
a little more off to improve the balance,
And he repeated that until the weapon
was perfect.
Not accurate! One of the sports in
which natives indulge is for one to stand
in the open while the others hurl spears
at his head. His only protection is a
shield 3in. or 4in. wide, with a hand-
grip at the back. Standing perfectly still,
he fends the spears with this, sliding them
past his head on either side. That takes
wonderful eyesight and accuracy on the
part of both marksman and target.
A native once showed me his collec-
tion, of spears. All but two were barbed,
and he prized those two above all the
rest. The barbed ones looked deadly,
but he said he put more faith in the plain
spear. However well-placed the barbs
were they tended to upset the balance.
iliese hunting-spears were never used
in tribal fights. Then the natives hurled
heavy, vicious-looking shovel-nosed
spears, pointed with heavy, jagged flints.
They never strove for accuracy with
these. They simply put up a barrage,
and if one found a target it would dis-
embowel a man.
A well-aimed hunting-spear was the
more deadly; a kangaroo struck by one
seldom escaped. On the other hand, when
a bullock was being cut-up at the Wynd-
ham meatworks last year the circular-
saw struck a hard obstruction which
deadened all the teeth. It was the head
of a war-spear, heavy and jagged, and
the bullock had carried it without any
apparent disability.
GRAVELSNATCHER.
SWAN-FLIGHT
Across dark strata of the clouds in grey
reflecting reaches of the placid tide,
those seven swans came on. Their leader cried
once his two quaver-notes across the bay.
As though their aura looked out from its sheath,
their beating wings, in lift and downward thrash,
shone out with silver light in flash and flash
making their beauty terrible as death.
By that still tide I heard their passing rush;
far down the grey and silver reach, I saw
their line keep on, and clear the distant shore
closed by the silent aboriginal bush.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


You may be
losing
a lot of value in
your foodstuffs
It is well established that
ground feed has very much
higher nutritive value than
plain feed, resulting in more
milk, more meat, more wool.
PM
r
mini!!!
m
GRIND YOUR
OWN FEED
with a
PULVOMILL
HAMMER TYPE GRINDER
4 Models Available
Models E. & F. for use on the average farm.
Model H. for use on larger farms and in industry.
•fa Model EOS. specially designed for Oyster Shell
Grinding.
GRINDING, MIXING & BAGGING OFF IN
ONE OPERATION
Sole Distributors
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Nr. Circular Quay, SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509 Phone, BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
AD 19
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
/)
,
1
ight up one of these superb English cigarettes of
pre-war excellence. Savour the rich, mellow smoothness of that
pure Virginia tobacco—and you will have formed a lasting
preference for Rothmans De Luxe Virginia! You will know why, in
the most distinguished homes and clubs,
Rothmans De Luxe have for so
long been accepted as England’s
luxury cigarette.
I>E LUXE
VIRGINIA
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
In aluminium containers
5/7 for 20
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
-
■ rv
m
sm
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Halcyon Sharemarket
Except for occasional purple
patches, like the Titanium
Minerals affair in Sydney, these
are mainly halcyon days on the
Stock Exchanges. A number of
1949-51 mushroom floats have
gone to their account, and the
market has had the measure of
other shaky ones for some time.
In the oil-share market, where
things happen more quickly,
there has been comparative
stability for weeks, with a wait-
and-see policy tending to take
the place of previous overbold-
ness. In the industrial market
the tendency is to take what the
gods give in the way of improved
interim dividends and to be
grateful, but not excited.
With the good reports there
are occasional shocks. The loss
shown by Caldwell’s Wines, after
payment of a 4 p.c. interim; was
a surprise. On the other hand
Amalgamated Textiles has re-
turned to the div.-list with a
2.3 p.c. interim.
B.H.P. shares have eased back
to 425. after their spurt of a
couple of shillings following the
report that Australian Iron and
Steel was taking up large per-
mits to search for oil and gas
in N. S. Wales. Brewery shares
in N.S.W. have moved up a bit
since the Maxwell Report was
presented. Burns Philp has
shown a little more profit and
has maintained its 10 p.c. divi-
dend. Larke, Neave and
Carter shares strengthened on
announcement of a one-for-two
bonus issue and a two-for-nine
cash issue of ss. ords. at a
premium of Is, 3d. a share. The
scrip of J. Gadsden Australia,
Ltd., and Rootes (Australia),
Ltd., of 10s. denomination in
each case, has come on the
market at about 11s. 6d. a share.
In each case the issue had been
heavily oversubscribed at par.
Among good industrials yields
in many cases remain attractive,
and to those who bought their
shares a few years ago the in-
come is at last becoming worth
while. While it can be demon-
strated in the majority of cases
that companies are still not being
adequately compensated for the
effects of inflation, over the past
12 months there has been a defi-
nite turn for the better both as
regards profit-earning and the
tax burden on profits. Before
this year is out investors should
be seeing the benefit.
Official listings on the Stock
Exchange include none of the
new oil or gas ventures. One
result is that, as other oil issues
come along, it is hard to esti-
mate market support for this
type of speculation. Several new
uranium ventures have made
either official or unofficial list-
ing, but the public remains in
the dark about its plunge into
several new oil - exploration
floats (a couple of them with an
issued capital of over a million),
which cramps its style in regard
to prospective ventures. For the
present it is hard to estimate the
prevalence or otherwise of
“sucker” money and “black”
money, which have been a
source of support for many
speculative ventures, from Mt.
Eba Gold onward.
Menzies’s Economic Policy
Regarding the anti-inflation
policy which the Menzies-
Fadden Government has pursued
since 1951, Mr, Menzies, in his
policy-speech, said that continu-
ing policies are essential. An
irresponsible burst of vastly in-
creased Government expenditure
would, undo the good achieved
and create more inflationary
pressure. “It would be a national
tragedy if, having won a great
campaign against inflation, we
disbanded our forces and left
the field to the enemy,” the
Prime Minister said.
He added that stability was
not an end in itself: “the
“Never forget , my lad—every member of my staff carries
a managing-director's cheque-book in his Wallet.”
creation of new wealth and
wider opportunities must go
on.” His Government,, which
has made wide and substantial
reductions in taxation over the
past two years, and has relaxed
financial and import controls,
“confidently looks forward to
making still further reductions of
tax in the next Budget.” Beyond
that Mr. Menzies would not go ;
he particularly stressed the fact
that “this is a policy speech, not
a Budget speech.”
Referring to projects such as
the Snowy scheme Menzies
claimed that more public
development work has , been go-
ing on than ever before. “But,”
the P.M. continued, “true de-
velopment requires private
action. The work of a company
which creates or expands an
industry is developmental. The
huge private investment now
being made in oil-refineries is
developmental in the truest
sense. Our recent action in mak-
ing reductions in company tax
Was designed to make possible
greater non-Government de-
velopmental expenditure and
maintain both continuity and
growth of employment.”
In respect of public works, the
Commonwealth would ask the
States to co-operate in the crea-
tion of a small advisory body
of experts to serve as a National
Development Commission, act-
ing in association with the De-
partment of National Develop-
ment, to report to both the Com-
monwealth and States upon the
economics and relative import-
ance of particular proposals. The
aim would be to concentrate
upon those things which would
best serve the future.
The Government intends to
maintain the Tariff Board to
advise on protection needed by
manufacturing industries; re-
cently the board was increased
in size to avoid delays in report-
ing to the Government. Manu-
facturing output is now .at a
record level.
A gold-production subsidy is
to be provided based on the
“formula of three-quarters of the
cost of production an ounce, less
£l4 10s.” The maximum subsidy
will be 30s. an ounce, and it will
be scaled down where profits
exceed 10 p.c. on capital. It will
be payable to approved pro-
ducers in areas where goldmin-
ing is a staple industry.
Amalgamated Retailers, Ltd.
Controlling Waltons, Ltd.,
among other subsidiaries, this
dramatically progressive Syd-
ney co. is interested in cash-
orders —it h e gan as Cash Orders
(Amalgamated), Ltd., in 1926 —
and 16 chain-stores in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria. The
latter are being modelled on
the Sears Roebuck (U.S.A.)
principle. Great expansion has
followed the acquisition of the
business of Murdoch’s, Ltd., in
1951. Retailing is now pre-
dominant in the organisation’s
business, and turnover has
grown from £3,500,000 in 1948
to £11,250,000 (13 months) in
1953.
To finance expansion the
parent co. is now offering
£1,500,000 of 6 p.c. registered
mortgage debentures with a
currency of 15 years. Over the
past two years £1,481,195 of
ordinary capital has been issued,
raising the total to £2,468,659.
Ord. dividends have averaged
slightly more than 14 p.c. over
the past 18 years. The fully-
paid 12s. ords. fetch 225, 9d. on
’Change.
Outstanding 4\ p.c. debentures
anjounting to £749,400 are to be
converted to 5i p.c. stock and
both old and new issues will
rank equally in point of security.
Net tangible backing (book-
value) for the issue will be £206
for each £lOO of debentures.
Last year’s profit, before tax,
was equal to 3.27 times the
annual debenture - interest
charge. Revaluation of premises
increases the asset backing.
The interest-rate on the de-
bentures is attractive and the
security reasonable. The issue
has been underwritten by J. B.
Were and Son.
J. Gadsden Australia, Ltd.
Stock Exchange dealings in
the 10s. shares qf J. Gadsden
Australia, Ltd., didn’t start until
all scrip had been posted to the
successful applicants; but the
distribution was carried out
smartly, and scrip-clerks in
brokers’ offices will be thankful
that everything was in apple-pie
order when trading began.
Transactions have been fre-
quent at 11s. 6d. a share. A 7 p.c.
div. has been indicated, and that
rate could be paid out of tax-
free reserves for about four
years. Overall earnings have
been averaging around 10 p.c.
p.a. on present ord. capital. The
co. is in the can, container and
crown-seal business, and it
appears to have a fairly stable
income despite fluctuations in
the food-canning industry.
At 11s. 6d. a share the pros-
pective yield is 6 p.c., tax-free
for the present. The co. has
deep and strong roots in its line
of business.


VOIGTLANDER
CAMERAS
rJ'
: :
m
$0
5a
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF NEW
PRICE REDUCTION
WHIEE STOCKS EAST
Vito II 3.5 Skopar Syncro-compur
£2O/10/-. E/R case £2/15/-.
Prominent f 2 nitron lens syncro-
compur £69. E/R case £3/15/-.
Vitessa f 2 nitron syncro-compur
£4B. E/R case £3/12/6.
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place, isydney. BVV 9556.
<
«/>
111
oL
aL
Z
ui
K
2
z
<
ui
<
u
u
u
ylJfiilt/
SANDERS#
FILES
Correspondence, Is* olctl.
•tenements, etc.. Died In the
‘’Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each n-ontb—o*
frltn and fur-
ther informidoa
ipoo application
ax>7 other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL Ikll HOSPITAL
BRANDY
When the
Occasion calls
for the best!
mi
Si!!
l
i
■vv
hq
•>«»“ <et
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
TST.27.ia
Amalgamated Retailers Limited
Issue of £1,500,000
Registered /jv
Mortgage l|%
Debentures
Interest Rate: 6 Per Cent. Cnrreney! IS Years Priee of Issne: Par ( * 100)
ISSUE OPENS MONDAY, 10th MAY, 1954
OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The net proceeds of this issue will be devoted
to financing a programme of continued ex-
pansion of the business and activities oi the
company and its important subsidiaries in the
fields of retail trade and associated finance.
ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
Messrs. Flack & Flack report profits of the
company and its subsidiaries before providing
for interest on existing or proposed debentures
or for income tax payable on the profits of
the group, at £533,102 for 13 months ended
31st July, 1953.
The report of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows
total assets of £7,400,292
COVER FOR CAPITAL AND INTEREST
The Trust Deed securing the issue of de-
bentures requires that in the event of further
issues the total amount of debentures issued
must not exceed the ratio of £lOO of debentures
to £250 of total assets, including share capital
issued since the* last balance date. Adding
capital issued since 31st July, 1953 (including
the amount still uncalled), total assets are
£8 884,558, which is equivalent to £341/15/11
of’ total assets for £lOO of debenture capital.
The Trust Deed calls for a minimum, three
times cover of debenture interest before
further debentures may be issued. The annual
rate of nrofit for 12 months in 1953 was suf-
ficient to cover debenture interest 3.27 times.
VALUATIONS OF PROPERTIES ,
A report by L. J. Hooker & Co. Ltd. places
a total value of all properties of the company
at £2,155.676, which is £834,881 in excess of
book value.
GROWTH OF BUSINESS . „
Total value of business of the company has
increased from around £3,500,000 in 1948 to
£11,250,000 (13 months) in 1953.
RECENT results . ... ..
The report of the managing director, Mr.
J. R Walton, states that for 37 weeks of the
current year to 15th April the combined
operating profit (after allowing for all expenses
including interest payments, but before Pro-
visions and Taxation) was £607,080. This
compares with £392,761 for the same period
of the previous year. It is confidently expected
that this operating profit will exceed £BOO,OOO
f °Mr h Walton anticipates that the volume of
business for this financial year will exceed
£16,000,000.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Norman Bede Rydge, 01010 Avenue, Vaucluse (Chairman).
John Robert Walton, Cherry Street, Warrawee (Managing Director).
John Thomas Walton, 29 Kambala Road, Bellevue Hill (Director),
David Cyril Alexander, 54A Telegraph Road, Pymble (Director and Secretary).
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Bank of New South Wales
Applications for debentures of this issue will be
received only on one of the forms of application
accompanying a copy of the prospectus.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of appli-
cation may be obtained from any Branch of:
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Bank of New South Wales
Members of the Stock Exchange of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Launceston.
Applications must be lodged with the bankers for
the issue and may be lodged through a member of
a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions w . ... ,
payment for debentures may be made either In full
on application or 10 per cent, on application and the
remainder by Instalments.
Application moneys and instalments will be accepted
free of exchange in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania,
Allotments
The minimum subscription upon which the directors
may proceed to allotment is £1,500,000,
The board of directors of the company will proceed
to allotment dally as from 10th May, 1954.
Stock Exchange Listing
Application will be made by the company for the
listing of the debentures on the Stock Exchanges of
Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane. Adelaide and Hobart.
Registers of Debentures
The principal register of .debentures .will be kept
in Sydney. A branch register will be established and
maintained in Melbourne.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE
(The requirements of
. Companies Act of the State of New South Wales have not been fully complied
* advertisement. 0 which is an abridgment of the prospectus.)
London Airmail
Only three months ago
Britain’s economic outlook was
overcast by some rather gloomy
imponderables. Trouble over
wage-claims seriously threatened
vital engineering exports. Pos-
sible pricing-out of the markets
was aggravated by growing Ger-
man competition. Terms of
trade had been exceptionally
favorable to us and would not
necessarily so continue. Our
production-costs were too high
and our industry starved of
capital development. The en-
croachments of defence and
welfare expenditure would be-
come more, not less, severe. And
over all hung the shadow of a
possible American recession.
So uncertain was the out-
look that an unsympathetic
Budget was not only inconceiv-
able but also damaging to our
future.
In the eveijt, the Budget made
one slight concession to in-
dustry and virtually nothing
else. The engineering trades
settled down and have increased
their exports by about 10 p.c. to
a total of £B7 million a month,
largely thanks, it is true, to the
lifting of Commonwealth re-
strictions. Exporters have
heeded warnings and taken off
their coats. ' German expansion,
it is held, does not impinge
upon all our markets. And more
motor-cars are being delivered
to Sweden and North America.
Most remarkable is the grow-
ing confidence in sterling.
Foreign money is flowing into
the City and already is affecting
the markets. (This influx may
even become embarrassing and
lead to a further reduction in
the bank rate.) The gilt-edged
market is firm and strong. The
index of industrial equities
stands at an all-time peak. And
stockbrokers are having to
work overtime in order to cope
with the increased volume of
business.
That Man Again
In 1951, when Mr, Attlee had
to go into hospital for treat-
ment for a stomach ulcer, he
was plagued at his bedside by
the least considerate of his
lieutenants, Aneurin Sevan, then
Minister of Health. Mr. Bevan
resigned because, as Sir Galahad
of the working classes, he ob-
jected to a shilling charge on
prescriptions. Poor Attlee, suf-
fering from a complaint that is
generally attributed to strain and
worry! With Bevan to cope with
there was something significant
about the ulcer.
And, three years later almost
to the day, Bevan has gone out
of his way to fling calculated
rudeness at his leader before
resigning from the Shadow
Cabinet over much weightier
issues than “a bob a ’scrip.”
Now he is concerned about Mr.
Dulles, Indo-China and, chiefly,
German rearmament.
Bevan is neither a patient nor
a logical man. The reasons be-
hind his resignation fan only
be imagined or deduced. It is
probable that, as with the sick-
bed, compulsive emotion was
the prime factor. Attlee’s pres-
tige as a leader has grown re-
cently, particularly since the H-
bomb debate. That would
. hardly please the Bevan ego,
which thrives so well on dissen-
sion. Moreover, bipartisanship,
like Toryism, is a red rag to the
hidebound Nye. Attlee had
spoken on behalf of the Opposi-
tion in favor of a policy which
he, after all, had inaugurated.
But whatever the Tories do
must, as a matter of course, be
wrong. And that, in Bevan’s
view, is that.
Evocative Play
There is a proverb in the
theatre to the effect that plays
by actors are rarely original.
They are said to offer snippets of
life —and those at second-hand.
This generalisation is mani-
festly untrue of actor John Whit-
ing, whose third play, “March-
ing Song,” is now at the St.
Martin’s Theatre. His plays are
imaginative, literary in style and
quite free from the artifices of
Shaftesbury - avenue. And,
apparently undeterred by failure,
he steadfastly persists in his
individualism. ■
His first play, “A Penny for
a Song,” was a fantasy which
had the distinction of a Hay-
market premiere. It failed be-
cause, in terms of the theatre, it
seemed silly. He then won a
prize with “Saint’s Day,” a re-
flective study of a modern Lear.
Our best actors and producers
raved about it, even to the ex-
tent of petitions in “The Times” ;
but the critics, who considered
it to be diffuse and long-winded,
were qnmoved. Mr. Whiting,
then, has lacked neither en-
couragement (in the form of the
backing of the powerful Tennent
organisation) nor praise from
the intelligentsia of the stage,
but he has yet to win artistic,
let alone commercial, success.
“Marching Song,” though at
times puzzling and unresolved,
is a leap forward. The plot is
slight and matters little. A
general, vaguely European, re-
turns to his mistress after seven
years in a prison-camp. He
quickly tires of her and is im-
mediately plunged into conflict
with the aged Prime Minister,
who, for political reasons,
charges him to commit suicide
rather than face trial. The
general has upon his conscience
a massacre of young children,
finds platonic affinity with an
existentialist pick-up and then
swallows the Prime Minister’s
lethal pill.
But the true quality lies in the
play’s symbolism and allegory.
These, like the dialogue, are
evocative. Mr. Whiting does
not state so much as induce,
and the listener responds accord-
ing to the degree of his own
imagination. ‘
The demands upon the players
are exacting, and all do not
quite succeed in conveying ‘ the
imagery. Ernest Thesiger comes
off best; his mellow, cynical
Prime Minister is tremendous.
Hartley Power is always com-
pelling, if sometimes redundant,
as the spluttering ruin of a
Hollywood tycoon. Robert
Flemying makes a thorough
soldier of the general, but seems
too dry and kindly for his Nazi-
like uniform and deeds. Diana
Wynyard, whether as lover re-
quited or lover spurned, has
little to fall back upon except
her own technique. That is
immense. And Penelope Mun-
day at first seems to have a too
ripe, “Sloane-square” accent for
the amoral waif. Yet she not
only symbolises war-torn youth
but also effectively builds up a
tenuous character into ultimate
cohesion.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
m
m
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Companv
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet—? “ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
T. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vice-Chairman).
Vi. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
£. B. Fleming. G. B. Kaier*
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart*
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Anthony Hordern & Sons (Sydney)
NOT since the public became interested
in 1926 has this big, well-known
and now-nearly- 130-year-old emporium
shown a better profit, or paid better
rates of dividends, than for the 12
months to Feb. 24 last.
After setting aside £45,000 (same as
previous term) for depreciation and
something for taxation, the board figured
net eamiqgs £86,519 stronger at £211,549,
and lifted the div. from an all-round 6 p.c.
(paid for the seven years to 1953) to 1\
p.c. (full contract rate) for the prefs. and
to 8 p.c. for the ords.:
v— Dividends Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 5.8 p v .c. Ordinary. serves, serves.!
£/ £, £*£/£*
1946. .119.735 44,297 sjp.c.= 68,750 6.688 122,154
6 p.c.
1947.. 145,704 46,000 6 „ „ 75,000 25,704 147,858
1948. .158,868 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 38,868 186,726
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 236,726
1949. .150,172 45,000 6 p.c.= 75,000 30,172 266,898
1950. .125,374 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 5,374 272,272
1951. .131.547 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 11,547 283,819
1952. .127,286 45,000 6 ~,. 75,000 7,286 291,105
1953. .125,030 45,000 6 „ „ 75,000 5,030 296,135
7J p.c.
1954. .211,549 66,250 8 p.c.=100,000 55,299 351,434
To alterations reserve, £50,000 .. 301,434
J Excludes depreciation reserve, etc. (now £724,813).
The £211,549 of profit was enough to
pay the pref. dividend and show 12.4 p.c.
on the £1,250,000 of ord, capital, com-
pared with 6.2, 6.3, 6.5, 6.2 and 7.5 p.c.
back to 1949. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the
year’s profit was 9.1 p.c.; so the £750,000
of pref. capital and £620,000 of debenture
money earned more than their keep.
As the eye sweeps down the profits
column in the table, it needs to be remem-
bered that the company handles practic-
ally everything that comes under the
broad heading of merchandising, from
machinery to capricious fashion-goods,
furniture, furnishings and antiques, and
that country trade has always figured
prominently in turnover. Among other
things, this calls for alert and efficient
management in handling the unusually
wide and numerous crop of problems to
which changes in the economic climate
inevitably give rise. The way in which
the co. came through the difficulties
created by the balance-of-payments crisis,
and the resilience of earnings last term,
are a testimony to the quality of the
control.
This resilience resulted from a build-up
of many factors, not least of which has
been growth of the co.’s individuality
as a trader, which is closely linked with
a well-earned reputation for service,
and brightening and improvement of the
store and shopping facilities, on which
a lot of money has been spent over the
last few years. Careful budgeting, good
buying and stock-adjustments played
their parts, too.
Other helpful factors include a bigger
export cheque and import-restrictions,
which enabled the swollen inventory of
a couple of years ago to be worked down
without mishap. Tax-cuts, direct and
indirect, helped to stimulate turnover and
reduced exes., while wage-rates remained
comparatively steady. Also abolition of
price-control, except for a few lines,
restored greater freedom to “merchan-
dise,” that is to average a lower mark-up
on goods bought at normal prices with a
higher mark-up on goods bought advan-
tageously.
Government statistics relating to retail
sales in N. S. Wales show that 1953
opened with trade stagnant, but turnover
picked up during the second quarter and
continued to accelerate as the year
advanced. For the last half of 1953 sales
were running about 8 p.c. above the level
for the corresponding half of 1952.
The effects upon balance-sheet figures
show up in growths of £329,757 in book-
debts and £108,489 in stocks:
1952; 1953. 1954.
Ord. capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
Reserves . . . . 291,106 296,136 301,434
Depreciation, etc. 634,813 679,813 774,813
Mortgages . . 500,000 640,000 620,000
Creditors, etc. .. 1,808,227 867,405 1,243,568
Tax reserves .. 345,188 121,049 196,236
Final divs. .. 60,000 60,000 96,250
£5,639,334 £4,664,403 £5,232,301
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . . . 1,389,707 1,478,213 1,547,675
Plant, etc. .. 565,230 601,289 647,665
Stocks . . .. 2,696,057 1,725.572 1,834.061
Book debts .. 934,561 824,601 1,154,358
Cash, etc 53,779 34,728 48,542
£5,639,334 £4,664,403 £5,232,301
Further improvements to the store, etc.,
added £69,462 to the book-value of free-
holds and £46,376 to plant, which
includes installation of escalators and
other amenities for the convenience of
shoppers. To help meet the outlay the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
was increased by £376,163. The mortgage
debt was reduced by £20,000. Despite
the net addition of £115,838 to fixed
assets, the contraction in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£880,907), or working
capital, was only £15,540.
As for the current term, the outlook
for turnover, temporarily stimulated by
spending on account of the Royal visit, is
bright enough. But whether a period of
stability and consolidation of recent
gains, or of inflation and rising costs, lies
ahead will depend upon the result of the
Federal election on May 29.
Heartened by the co.’s performance,
the market prices the f,-p* £1 ords. at
255. (20s. a year ago) to return 6.4 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at
235. 9d. (20s. 6d. a year ago) yield 6.3
p.c. on a 1\ p.c. distribution. Excluding
the depreciation reserve, etc., net tangible
cover is £3 Is. 4d. prefs., and 245. lOd.
ords.
Union Trustee Co.
AT long last the Governments of the
■ three eastern States—in which this
Union co. operates-—have amended their
Trustee Acts by slightly increasing the
scale of commission charges, "which had
remained substantially unchanged for well
over half a century. Shareholders’ pros-
pects have thus taken on a “new look,”
subject to what happens in connection
with costs, mainly wage-rates.
The new scale, however, is static and
applies only to new business, which
means that full benefit to net earnings of
the cos. will be spread over a period, A
formula providing for a sliding scale of
charges based upon officially-ascertained
costs would have been a more equitable
solution of the problem.
The pressure of rapidly-mounting wage-
rates, etc., against a static ceiling of com-
mission charges had brought the Union’s
net earnings down from an average of
£13,098 for the six years to 1940 to
£10,447 for the next six years, and to
£9527 for the seven years to the close
of accounts in 1953. Indeed, for. the two
years to 1953 the co. was actually giving
its clients efficient service, which called
for highly specialised knowledge and ex-
perience, at less than cost.
For the year to Feb. 28, 1954, there was
a welcome improvement of £2575 in the
net result;
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £> £f £,
1947 .. 9,317 6 p.c. = 8,250 1,067 87,893
1948 .. 7,310 6 „ „ 8,250 86,993
1949 .. 9,932 6 „ „ 8,250 1,682 88,636
1950 .. 13,228 7i„ „ 10,312 2,916 91,552
1951 .. 11,951 7J„ „ 10,313 1,638 93,190
1952 .. 7,484 6 „ 8,250 92,424
1953 .. 7,468 6 „ „ 8,250 91,642
1954 .. 10,043 7 „ „ 9,625 418 92,060
The £10,043 of profit claimed was 7.3 p.c.
on capital, and the div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to 7 p.c., the final being at the
rate of 8 p.c. p.a. Prospects of the co.
netting more than enough to pay 8 p.c.
for the current term are bright at the
moment.
On the co.’s own net assets, or share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), the year’s profit was a modest 4.3
p.c., which suggests that the trustee sec-
tion of the business turned in little, if any,
profit.
For many years there has been an un-
interrupted growth in the volume of busi-
ness (amount not disclosed) entrusted to
the co.’s expert care ; thanks, among other
things, to growing realisation of the
obvious advantages of the corporate
over the private trustee. Last term com-
missions (£273,210, up £8227) and rents,
etc. (£17,966, up £984) brought in an extra
£9211:
Commissions, Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1950 .. ~ £196,568 £183,340 98.2
1951 .. .. 221,077 209,126 94.6
1952 .. . . 268,483 260,999 97.2
1953 .. 281,965 274,497 97.3
1954 .. .. 291.176 281,133 96.5
Exes, (up £6636) included an additional
£3558 for depreciation (£9567), part of
which might have been on account of
initial equipment of a new branch opened
at Charleville (Q.). Considered in con-
junction with the present standstill in
wage-rates, it all augurs well for a better
showing* at next balance.
From the testator’s point of view, the
altered conditions of today call for a
revision of wills. The prescribed list of
trustee-investments set out in the various
State Acts has become obsolete, making it
virtually impossible for a trustee to
secure a reasonable income for the life
tenant, while at the same time keeping
the capital intact for the remainderman,
unless the settlor “contracts out” of the
Act by including a clause in his will giv-
ing the trustee special powers in relation
to investments.
The Union’s £137,500 of paid capital
is in 100,000 shares of £2 10s. paid to
275. 6d. each—of the difference £1 is a
reserve liability callable only if needed
in the event of liquidation. The capital
and reserves, together with provision for
taxation, etc. (£27,835), are represented by
freeholds (£173,489), book-debts (£844)
and Government securities and cash
(£88,562).
Uncertain of what the future might
hold in respect of costs for this*
class of business, the market prices
the scrip at 275. 6d. (255. 9d. a
year ago) to return 7 p.c. on the basis of
last term’s distribution, with good im-
mediate prospects. Net tangible cover is
455. lid.
Metropolitan Life
YJURITING ordinary, industrial and
accident business in the three
eastern States, and paying regular bonuses
to policyholders and dividends to share-
holders, the 58-year-old Metropolitan
continues to make steady and encourag-
ing progress along sound lines, thus en-
hancing the outlook for both policy-
holders and those on the share register.
New business put on the books during
1953 totalled £1,998,737 (up £331,684),
of which 70 p.c. (£1,396,579, up
£208,573) was ordinary and 30 p.c.
(£602,158, up £123,111) industrial.
Eight years ago the ratios were approxi-
mately 39 p.c. ordinary and 61 p.c. indus-
trial. The development is a pleasing one
because policyholders get more benefit
from ordinary than from industrial con-
tracts. Nevertheless, industrial assurance,
which is necessarily much more expensive
to handle, provides an avenue of saving
with wOrth-while benefits that would be
otherwise denied to many, provided infla-
tion can be held in check.
Income in each of the two life depart-
ments, and what was done with it, com-
pares as follows over the last five years; —•
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds, t
£ £ £ £ £
1949.. 264,806 101,732 44,412 118,662 1,798,894
1950. . 289,479 112,070 42,456 184,953 1,933,847
1951. . 318,421 107,067 68,077 153,277 2,087,124
~From General Dept., £lO,OOO .. 2,097,124
1952. 354,107 142,390 65,328 146,389 2,243,513
1953.. 410,717 137,256 84,072 189.389 2,432,902
•Includes divs. to shareholders, 1949, £2837; 1950,
£3293 ; 1951, £3461; 1952, £3884; 1953. £4282.
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds. t
£>£»£/£* &
1949.. 405,385 160,481 112,569 132,335 1,969,499
1950.. 416,634 175,096 115,510 126,028 2,095,527
1951.. 433,327 194,168 124,310 114,849 2,210.376
From General Dept., £4OOO .. .. 2,214,376
1952.. '432,774 231,132 136,784 64,858 2,279,234
1953.. 447,018 254,405 136,909 55,704 2,334,938
•Includes divs. to shareholders, 1949, £1876; 1950,
£1800; 1951, £2OOO ; 1952, £2462; 1953, £5750.
Combining the figures of these two
branches, last year’s income was £70,854
stronger at £857,735, of which £674,990
(up £46,689) was premiums and £182,745
(up £24,165) interest, rents, etc. After
paying all legitimate claims and exes.,
etc., and handing shareholders £10,032
in dividends, £240,093 was added to the
statutory life funds, raising them to
£4,743,340. These funds had the support
and assistance of £34,500 (up £5000) of
various reserves, including a general
reserve of £lO,OOO, which also belong to
policyholders.
Claims were well within actuarial ex-
pectations, Exes, took 24,6 p.c. (up 3.5
p.c.) of premium income in the 0.D.;
but the growth was due mainly to book
adjustments, and fractionally to the
larger amount of new business written.
In the I.D. the ratio was 36.1 p.c. (down
0.9 p.c.), which suggests that a tight hold
was maintained upon controllable out-
goings.
More encouraging was the improve-
ment in the rats of net interest earned,
which is one of the most fruitful sources
of bonuses to policyholders. It increased
by 4s. 4d. p.c,, reaching £3 17s. lOd. p.c.
on mean funds, plus share capital
(£100,000). This and other things augur
well for the future of bonus rates, which
range from 16s. p.c, on O.D. contracts
less than five years in force to 245. p.c.
on those 15 years old or more. In the'
O.D, the co. is committed to earn £9 or
more for policyholders before share-
holders become entitled to anything.
Income in the general, or accident, de-
partment (£53,092) was only £1072
stronger. Including £2469 for divs. to
shareholders, claims and exes, (together
£51,960) were £4296 heavier, thus leaving
the surplus £3224 lighter at £1132. The
div. was kept at p.c., and long-term
prospects are encouraging. The £lOO,OOO
of share capital is backed by £125,810 of
reserves, of which £4900 is earmarked for
unexpired risks.
The investment portfolio is well-
balanced from both the policyholders’
and shareholders’ points of view:
1952. p.c. 1953. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £203,575 4.2 £203,084 4.0
Public securities, etc. 3,171,656 65.2 3,324,398 65.0
Shareholdings. etc. 1,023,665 21.0 1,067,724 20.9
Mortgages . . .. 199,406 4.1 203,469 4.0
Loans on policies.. 160,200 3.3 179,728 3.5
Book debts .. 98,851 2.0 101,860 2.0
Cash .. ®.. 7,186 0.2 30,818 0.6
£4,864,539 £5,111,081
Public securities (up £152,742) account
for 65 p.c. of total assets, and share-
holdings (up £44,059) for, 20.9 p.c. The
latter include the scrip in two subsidiaries,
both satisfactory profit-earners—Union
Investment co. (paid capital, £185,700) in
at £230,313, and Metropolitan Accident,
Fire and General (paid capital £29,340) in
at £43,907.
Bloch and Gerber, Ltd. (Sydney)
nrHE change in trading conditions over
-*• the last couple of years gave the co.’s
earnings a severe jolt. Shareholders, how-
ever, have not fared badly, and there are
signs that the worst of the co.’s troubles


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attar-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Professional Engagements
EMPEROR GOLD MINING COM-
PANY LIMITED, Vatukoula, FIJI,
have vacancies for the following
positions—
Research Chemist
Assistant Research Chemist
Assistant Assayer
All applications must be in writing
and accompanied by copies of testi-
monials, stating qualifications and
whether married or single.
Liberal salary and cost-of-living
allowance will be paid to successful
applicants, according to qualifications
and experience.
The Mine is situated in a healthy
part of the Colony of Fiji and the
Company provides many types of
amenities.
Housing and heavy furniture avail-
able at low rental.
Applications to —
COOK, TOMLINS & MI RAMS,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
GOLD MINING—MALAYA
An Underground Shift Boss is re-
quired by the Raub Australian Gqld
Mining Company Ltd. Commencing
salary £650 sterling per annum plus
Cost of Living Allowance of £212
sterling for a man on bachelor status
or £340 sterling for a man on married
status. Free furnished quarters. Three
(3) years contract with six (6) months
paid leave on completion. Three (3)
weeks local leave annually. Passages
for man and wife paid both ways.
Low Income Tax.
Apply in writing giving full details
experiences and copies of references
W RAUB AUSTRALIAN GOLD
MINING COMPANY LTD.
* Box 277D —G.P.O. Brisbane
For your
BRIGHT SHEET STEEL
REQUIREMENTS
1 •'Vfls
rtZ
m
# Superfin for exferlor panels
0 Satin for general purposes
0 Enamel for vitreous enamelling
and other special purpose grades .
I S /
? A r. v*
John Lysaghf (Australia) Pty.
Limited —General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Fremantle, Wellington,
N.Z.
eo
CR6-5I
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3j ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson S O'Sullivan [JJ;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 806 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
A SOUND FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION
Providing profit-
able protection
for policyhold-
ers, while pro-
viding funds
to assist
Australia's
develop-
ment.
Every Year
a Bonus Year
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
{lnc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building. Hunter and Bligh
Sts,, Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO .DAY’S PROTECTION TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
•111
fan
in
"in
Ulii
"Hi
jFcuih inilic
fydure
Life moves along at a vibrating speed. Every year,
science and speed are adding to the pace that Man
has set himself. But there are things in this world that
will never change—those simple elementary truths we
learnt as children from our mother.
Nothing will ever come out of a test tube in sub-
stitute for the Rule of fair and friendly dealing; there
will never be anything to take the place of the old-
fashioned principles of honesty and integrity.
This is something I have tried to keep before me
all my life, both personally and in business. While
directing activities that have set out to be as modern
as tomorrow,” I have sought to apply to their working
those ancient simplicities that will endure for the
guidance of human conduct as long as the earth
shall turn.
It was good then, to read a message which an old
friend of mine addressed recently to his American
shareholders. He is head of one of the world’s largest
contractors in earth-moving construction, and this is
what he said:
“We see many ponderous articles on the com-
plexities of national and international business that
must leave many a reader bewildered and discouraged,
wondering what magic formulas can be applied by
managements to keep our economy functioning in the
shifting patterns of such a troubled world.
“But the plain fundamentals of sound business
have not changed from the homely virtues we all
learned in youth—those that stem from the Golden
Rule. Honesty and integrity are our principles and
on them we base our policy... We believe they are
the foundation stones of all permanent business
success.”
As in business, so in the life of a nation. There
never has been and never will be, a magic formula for
prosperity. There can be no permanent progress for
Australia without honest work and the honest employ-
ment of men in tasks that spell Development.
Given those, Courage will do the rest. And
Courage branches out of the most basic of all the
virtues our Mothers taught usr—and that is Faith.
//. //izs/wyS
might be behind it for the pre-
sent, at any rate.
Activities cover a wide range
of imported and locally-manu-
factured electrical and other
equipment for both industrial
and domestic use, including
Weldon radio-receivers, wash-
ing-machines and refrigerators,
as well* as clocks and jewellery,
etc.
The £131,250 of share capital
includes £30,000 of 7 p.c. cum.
prefs., which advance with the
ords. up to 9 p.c., and at Jan. 31
last it had the support and
assistance of £145,719 of re-
serves. So the two combined
need turn in only 4.8 p.c. to
cover last term’s rate of distri-
bution—9 p.c. prefs. and 10 p.c.
ords.
For the half-dozen flush years
to the close of accounts in 1952,
ord. divs. averaged 15 p.c.,
sweetened with new share-issues
at par totalling £60,000. Then
expanding costs pressed heavily
upon reduced turnover, follow-
ing the easing of activity in the
building trade, tightening of
credit and flood of imports. For
the two years to Jan. 31, 1954,
profits dropped to about 40 p.c.
of their 1952 level, and the div.
was lowered from 15 p.c. to 10
p.c.:
, — — Re-
Jan. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948.. 21,973 9 15 9,450 38,792
1949.. 23,590 9 15 12,825 49,557
1950.. 23.847 9 15 12.825 60,579
1951.. 31.745 9 17$ 14,513 £7,811
1952.. 34.499 9 15 17,887 94,423
1953.. 14.170 9 10 12,825 95,768
Revaluation property,
£49,121 .. •• 144,889
1954.. 13.655 9 10 12,825 145,719
Last term competition kept mar-
gins narrow, and the overstocked
state of the watch and jewellery
trades made it difficult to adjust
inventory holdings of these lines,
the market foi; radios, refrigera-
tors and other electrical goods
was sticky for the first 10 months
of the term, but livened con-
siderably towards the close of
accounts, when sales reached the
level of two years ago.
All told the co. was able to
show net earnings only £520
lighter at £13,650, which covered
the maximum pref. div. and 10.8
p.c. on ord, capital as against
11.3, 31.4, 43, 31.3 and 30.9 p.c.
back to 1949. Maintenance of
the div. at 10 p.c. can be taken
as a hint that the board is satis-
fied with the outlook.
Balance-sheet movements were
in the right direction:
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 195 i.
Pref. .. £30,000 £30,000 £30,000
Ord. .. 101,250 101,250 101.250
Reserves .. 94,423 95,768 145,719
Mortgage .. 21,600 21,600 “ ■
Overdraft .. 66,909 97,245 107,047
Creditors* .. 194,168 143,653 126,249
Final divs... ip,725 6,675 5,663
£519,075 £'496,191 £515,928
Freehold .. 45,449 45,121 “
Fittings .. 3,810 3,607 3,964
Investments.. 5,000 5,000 53,444
Stocks .. 325.772 299,360 282,746
Debtors .. 138,993 142,893 175,491
Cash .. 51 210 283
£519,075 £496,191 £515,928
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
A growth of £32,598 in book-
debts was accompanied by a
reduction of £16,614 in stocks (in
at not more than cost) and a
cut of £17,404 in the amount
coming to sundry credtiprs, etc.
There was a leap of £94,715 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£273,005), following sale (at an
unstated figure) of the head-
quarters freehold in York-street,
Sydney, to a co. in which the
tenants hold the shares.
Sale of the property, which
had been first revalued, also re-
sulted in a revaluation reserve of
£49,121, elimination of the
mortgage debt (£21,600 at pre-
vious balance) and addition of
£48,444 to investments, which
now consist of shareholdings
(£10,294, up £5294) and £43,150
advanced on mortgage, presum-
ably to the new tenant-owned
co.
The improved trade outlook,
net reduction in the interest-
bearing outside debt and growth
in investments auger well for a
better showing at next balance.
Turnover for the first quarter of
the current term is up 25 p.c.
The issue of bonus-scrip, spoken
of a year ago as a possibility
“at some future date,” is to be
considered when the board can
see more clearly what the future
earning-power of the business is
likely to be.
At Bs. 3d. (9s. 6d. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. shares return 6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 12s. 2d. The
prefs, seldom appear on ’Change.
After 15 years or more of
unsuccessful effort, clumsily-
named Enterprise of New
Guinea Gold and Petroleum
Development, N.L., has suc-
ceeded in getting a petroleum-
prospecting permit covering
1650 square miles in the Sepik
district of New Guinea adjoin-
ing the Dutch border. An aerial
survey is not one of the condi-
tions of the permit, and is not
contemplated at the moment.
But an advance-party will make
an aerial flight ovSt the area to
select a favorable site for a base-
camp. After that a “fully-
equipped” expedition is to make
a surface examination in order
to locate likely drilling sites. The
party is to include the co.’s
manager (A. E. Jentzsch), field-
geologist (S. J. Paterson) and
surveyor (M. G. Wish-Wilson),
as well as a Government geolo-
gist. Information on the geology
of this field (B. 21/4/’54) is
scanty to date, and any opinion
as to the probability of striking
flow-oil is therefore speculative
at the moment. The co.’s f.-p. £5
shares, which sold around 40s.
each in March, recently fetched
£3l 10s.
♦ ♦ * *
Great Western Consolidated
(B. 14/4/’54) is meeting with
encouraging developments at
depth. On No. 8 level 55ft. of
driving recently disclosed Bdwt.
ore over a width of 19ft. Now
the diamond-drill has inter-
sected ore about 230 ft. below
No, 8 level, and 45ft. of the core
assayed 7.Bdwt. True width of
ore-body at this point not yet
known.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The junior dance-committee of the
Abbotsleigh Old Girls’ Union held their
dance at Prince’s this year in aid of the
school swimming-pool fund. With
about 350 present, the dancers were pre-
dominantly youthful and beautifully
dressed, so that the scene was a very
pretty one to watch. Representing the
O.G.U. were the president. Lady Mackay,
with Sir Iven Mackay, Mr. and Mrs.
David Giblin, Mr. and Mrs. G. R.
Wright, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Halley. Miss
E. Gordon Everett, headmistress of
Abbotsleigh, who will retire shortly,
received a bouquet from the girls in token
of their appreciation. Secretary of the
dance-committee, Pam Logan, looked
charming in a bouffant dress of blue-net
with a long swathe of blue-and-white-
check organza worn plaid-wise over
one shoulder. Clare Gall wore pale-
green brocade, and Gretel Allpress was in
primrose organza. Other dancers were
Beverley Worboys, Rosalind Bourke,
Margaret Mackenzie, Dr. and Mrs. A.
Skyring, Margaret Gustafson, Mr. and
Mrs. lan Guest.
* ☆ ☆
The State Convention of the Penguin
Club of Australia in N.S.W., held dur-
ing the week in the Conference Room of
the Rural Bank, took for its subject “A
Plan for the Development of Rural Aus-
tralia.” Speakers, who discussed the
subject under the headings of Transport
and Services, Cultural Aspects, Life in
the Home, and The Land Itself, were
Mrs. H. Armstrong, Mrs. L. ~A. Buckley,
Mrs. P. Krahe and Miss Joyce Shewcroft
in that order. Mrs. Hume, the State
president, made the opening address, and
Mrs. Jean Ellis, Federal president, was
present to give appreciation and stimu-
lation. It was interesting to note that
there seemed to be many more men
present than at previous conventions, so
perhaps the idea of finding interesting
speeches on serious subjects by women
is growing among the menfolk. The
Penguin Club is now reaching out into
country districts and already has a
flourishing branch at Wagga.
☆ *
The Military Cadet Unit of St. Aloysius’
College had the Mosman Town Hall bril-
liantly decorated with flags and school
pennants for their formal dance on Friday
night. Cadet-Lieutenant Robert Virgona
received the guests with his mother, Mrs.
R. Virgona, of Middle Harbor, and
escorted Michele Dekyvere to the dance.
Other officers were Peter Quilty with
Louise Boland, Ewart O’Donnell with
Dolores Henderson, Terry Davey with
Ann Rouse and Alan Powell with Bar-
bara Eagles.
Among the 200 dancers were represen-
tatives of the cadet corps from The King’s
School, Riverview, Knox (wearing the
kilt), Waverley College, Shore, Trinity
and Barker. From Flinders Naval Depot
came Cadet-Midshipman Charles Bowers,
and from Duntroon Lieutenant Michael
Goldrick, both St. Aloysius’ ex-students.
Lieut. Goldrick escorted Patricia Burges,
whose parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. L.
Burges, were in the official party, where
Mr. and Mrs. Virgona entertained Briga-
dier Hinton (guest-of-honor). Colonel
and Mrs. J. J. O’Sullivan, Major and Mrs.
Read (The King’s School), Commander
.and Mrs. H. L. Gunn, Captain L. Skewes
and Miss Skewes, Sergeant-Major Allen
(9th Batt.) and Mrs. Allen.
☆ ☆
“It is not how many years a man lives
that matters, but what he does with the
years that are granted,” said the Gover-
nor-General, Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim, when he opened the new War
Memorial Hall at Sydney Church of Eng- ‘
land Grammar School (Shore), and,
thinking of those whom the hall com-
memorates, as well as of the earnest
young faces who will occupy it, one
felt the spirit of yesterday inextricably
mingled with the promise of to-
morrow. Shore looks down from the
heights across the bridge and harbor to
the city ; more than 3000 people were there
to see the hall opened by Sir William and
dedicated by the Archbishop of Sydney,
Dr. H. W. K. Mowll. The hall, which
accommodates about 1000 and will
serve as a meeting-place for the
school community, commemorates the
1939-45 service of more than 2000
Old Boys, of whom 231 gave
their lives. Sir William and Lady
Slim were met inside the school gates by
the Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll and the
headmaster of Shore, Mr, L. C, Robson,
and Mrs. Robson.
* * *
The Eastern Masked Ball is to be the
opera ball for 1954, when dressing will be
the usual formal attire with the addition
of a mask with an Eastern touch. There
will be some contestants also for the
prizes for opera- and ballet-characters,
just to add interest, but no one should
be frightened off by thinking they have
to go in costume. The ball is to be at
Prince’s on Wednesday, May 19. Mrs. E.
Esdaile is president of the committee and
Mrs, Derek Crookes ticket-secretary.
Michaela O’Neill, who recently gradu-
ated in physiotherapy at Sydney Univer-
sity, is the winner of the Selwyn Nelson
Prize for medicine and the Keith Smith
Prize for elementary orthopcedic surgery.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
The gala opening of the Phillip Street
Theatre with its revue, “Top of the Bill,”
had everything—a striped awning, Gov-
ernment House (Miss Northcott was
accompanied by Squadron-leader Russell
Nash, Sue Playfair and Ben Arnott), neon
lights, a couple of ermine capes, several
peschanikis, lots of silver-foxes, milling
throngs (which milled so long on the steps
that the show started late), and. the most
representative assembly of theatrical, radio
and newspaper people gathered together
since the Stratford-on-Avon players were
here.
The audience obviously enjoyed itself,
and clapped so loudly that the rafters
haven’t stopped ringing. Bill Orr, who
produced the show, told in his' curtain-
speech that' the last of the blessedly
comfortable seats had been screwed in
by the company at five p.m., and that at
nine thqt morning they hadn’t jcnown
whether there would be any seats at all.
But all the anxiety was repaid, for the
seats and the cheerful color-scheme of the
theatre have quite dispelled the austere,
almost penitential atmosphere in which
little theatres so dften have their being.
* ☆ ☆
Among «the functions to be held in
honor of Empire Day will be a late-after-
noon reception at the Trocadero arranged
by the Victoria League in N.S.W. and the
Sydney branch of the Overseas League.
The Governor of N.S.W., Sir John North-
cott, will be present with Miss Elizabeth
Northcott, and Rear-Admiral R. R.
Dowling will speak to “The Toast of
Empire.”
* * *
Something to look forward to is the
Gala Preview of the color film, “The
Queen in Australia,” to be held at the
State Theatre on June 2 in aid of the'
Red Cross. The film, to be shown in the
presence of the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim, runs for
70 minutes. It begins on the day of the
Queen’s arrival in Sydney when a heli-
copter meets the Gothic 30 miles off
Sydney Heads and hovers over the ship.
Then it follows the progress of the Royal
Tour throughout Australia, concluding
with the departure from Western Aus-.
tralia with the crowds singing “Auld
Lang Syne” and “Home Sweet Home.”
Those who wish to be present at the pre-
view—and to help Red Cross at the same
time —can book seats at Red Cross House,
27 Jamieson-street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE
- Jet-planes from the U.S.N. carrier
Tarawa flying through the sound-
barrier was a fitting preliminary to the
festivities marking the annual Coral Sea
week, and which opened with a Coral Sea
luncheon at the Royale organised by the
Australian-American Association. There
was a very impressive official guest-list,
the guest-of-honor being Fleet-Admiral
W. F. Halsey, U.S.N.
The ballroom was set with small tables
which carried the Australian flag and the
Stars and Stripes. The long official table
was decorated with autumn-tinted foliage
and chrysanthemum and ivy, tiny
posies of red, white and blue flowers were
festooning along the edge. President of
the association Sir John Latham and his
wife received Admiral Halsey, who, by
the way, takes great pride in wearing his
K.C.B.E. while here, and it confers
on him the right to be called Admiral
Sir William Halsey.
Among the guests were Harold Holt
and Mrs. Holt, W. Kent Hughes, Premier
John Cain and Mrs. Cain, Lord Mayor
Cr. R. H. Solly, Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins, Lieutenant-
General Sir Sidney Rowell Lady
Rowell, Air-Marshal J. P. J.* McCauley
and Mrs. McCauley, Lady Murdoch (her
husband, the late Sir Keith, was one of
the founders of the Australia-American
Association in this State), Lady Herring,
U.S. Consul-General Henry Stebbins and
Mrs. Stebbins,' U.S. Naval Attachd Cap-
tain R. McPherson and Mrs. McPherson,
U.S. Army Attache Col. John Middleton
and Mrs. Middleton, U.S. Air Attache
Col. John Sullivan and Mrs. Sullivan,
Lady McConnan, Lady Snow, Mrs.
Norman Shepherd, the W. K. Burnsides
and Mrs. C. Deem.
Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, is an Englishwoman by
birth , and their marriage makes a happy
example of the best Anglo-American co-
operation—certainly they are as popular
a pair as ever occupied the big residence
in South Yarra. Mrs. Stebbins , tall and
attractive, is a delightful hostess and
achieves a great deal of pleasure from
working out outstanding and original
flower-arrangements. She is a member of
the English-Speaking Union and the
American Women's Auxiliary to the
Children's Hospital. Wallace Heaton
( London) photo.
Fleet-Admiral Halsey and visiting U.S.
naval officers were guests-of-honor at a
delightful late-aftemoon party given by
U.S. Consul-General Henry Stebbins
and Mrs. Stebbins. The hostess had
decorated the large reception-rooms with
huge bowls of green, blue and rust-toned
hydrangeas mixed with white and red
gladioli and branches of red holly. Mrs.
Stebbins wore a full-skirted frock of beige
Ottoman silk with the bateau neckline
embroidered with pearls and sequins. A
striking turquoise-blue jersey frock with
pearl embroidery at the neckline was worn
by Mrs. John Middleton with a matching
feather-hat finished with a sweep of
feathers at one side. Mrs. Wesley Ince
wore a slim black satin frock, a blue mink
stole and small black velvet hat.
A visitor from the U.S., Mrs. R. Wil-
loughby, was attractive in a frock of
emerald-green faille, Mrs. David Syme
glowed in scarlet velvet and small black
velvet hat, and Mrs. T. Brunsting’s black
taffeta frock was highlighted with group-
ings of green and gold stripes. Mrs.
Harold Holt wore with her cinnamon-
brown wool frock a small matching velvet
hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor and Lady Brooks will
be present at the filin premiere of “Malta
Story,” which will be screened at the
Astor Theatre, St. Kilda, on May 19,
at 8 p.m. The newly formed Edinburgh
Club, of which the Hon. Simon Warren -
der is president, works for Prince Henry’s
Hospital, and proceeds from the premiere
will go to the hospital. F. S. O’Collins
has donated the theatre and the J. Arthur
Rank organisation the film. Mrs. Hamley
Wilson (UY 9472) is ticket-secretary and
Mrs. Jim Peters is in charge of publicity.
Mrs. Alan Wynn, the former Sally Gil-
mour, whose husband is also attached to
Prince Henry’s, will be in charge of
flowers and programmes at the theatre.
Lounge-seats will cost two guineas, dress-
circle one guinea, back-stalls 10s. 6d. and
front-stalls ss.
☆ ☆
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, with
Admiral Halsey, stood at the Town Hall
to take the salute from rain-drenched
American and Australian servicemen* in
the annual Coral Sea commemoration
march, at the conclusion of which guests
on the dais moved into the warmth of
the Town Hall reception-rooms, where
they were entertained by the Lord Mayor
(Cr. R. H. Solly) and his wife.
Guests-of-honor were Fleet-Admiral
Halsey, Captain W. O. Burch, of U.S.S.
Tarawa, and Commander E. B. Jarman,
of U.S.S. O’Bannon. In a bright, breezy
speech the Lord Mayor welcomed the
visitors, and the Minister for the.lnterior,
Mr. Kent Hughes, and Premier Cain
added their welcomes. The president of
the Australian-American Association, Sir
John Latham, and Lady Latham were
present, as were the Consul-General foY
the U.S.A., Henry E. Stebbins, and his
wife. Representatives of the services in-
cluded First-Officer of the W.R.A.N.S.,
Miss Blair Bowden. Mrs. Gordon
Coulter, Mrs. Bernard Evans, Mrs. James
Ferguson and Mrs. M. Nathan, wives
of city councillors, were also there.
☆ ☆ ☆
John Cranko, resident choreographer
at Sadler’s Wells Theatre, came specially
from London to produce his ballet “Pine-
apple Poll,” launched by the Borovanskys
at Her Majesty’s last week. A gay and
captivating ballet adapted from W. S.
Gilbert’s Bab Ballad “The Bumboat
Woman’s Story,” it is danced to the music
of Arthur Sullivan.
Wearing a most attractive short frock
was Mrs. Peter Condon, who chose silk
in a glowing tangerine-shade for her
ensemble. Mrs. E. Fitzgerald’s frock and
full-backed coat were of currant-red
faille, Lady Connelly’s formal gown of
emerald-green chiffon. Mrs. Alan Wynn
(former ballerina Sally Gilmour) wore a
very full ankle-length coat of brown-and-
rust-shot taffeta. Mrs. Frank Tait chose
an ankle-length frock of bronze velvet,
with a panel of bronze beads and sequins
down one side of the skirt. Also in the
audience was Leon Goossens, who was
with Mr. and Mrs. Fred Dennett. Mrs.
Wesley Ince was with her daughter, Mrs.
Betty Baragawanath, and Mr. and Mrs.
Maurice Sallmann and the T. Alan
McKays were also there.
☆ ☆
Highlight of the Coral Sea festivities
was, of course, the ball at the Royale.
The Governor and Lady Brooks attended,
as did the American Ambassador, Mr.
Amos J. Peaslee, Mrs. Peaslee and their
daughter Dorothy.
This year the ball, sponsored by the
Australian-American Association, took
on a nautical atmosphere. A message in
code reading “Coral Sea. Thank you,
America,” was strung across the official
enclosure, while behind the tables was
a model in flowers of aircraft-carrier
Hornet. On the supper-tables were blue
pennants bearing names of the ships
which saw action in the Pacific, and also
plastic aircraft-carriers with tiny detach-
able planes on their decks. In the foyer
was a large model of the new U.S. air-
craft-carrier U.S.S. Coral Sea, offset with
tiny islands, one with a radar-station.
In the official party were the First
Naval Member, Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins, and Lady Collins; Chief of Air
Staff Air-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley and
his wife, her lovely gown of smok,e-grey
tulle, the skirt appliqued with lace to
match the- bodice of grey lace. Mrs. R.
McPherson, wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache, chose red tulle for her gown,
which bad the strapless bodice trimmed
with huge matching roses. Mrs. John
Middleton, wife of the U.S. Army
Attache, wore apricot tulle embroidered
with silver, and Mrs. George Uhrich,
wife of the Assistant Army Attache,
wore midnight-blue chiffon, the skirt
fully pleated and the bodice clustered
with matching beads.
Sir John Latham proposed the toast
of the President of the U.S.A., and the
U.S. Ambassador that of Queen Eliza-
beth. Admiral Halsey and officers of the
visiting U.S. warships were guests-of-
honor.


3g||*
COVENTRY CLIMAX
* Industrial Engine Unit
4 cylinder petrol engine, rated
8 H.P., develops max. approx.
20 H.P. Water cooled with
radiator and fan. Impulse mag-
neto, precision governor.
Complete with tools and £|2o
spares
Trade inquiries invited.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Koad, Newtown,
Sydney. L<A 3597.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BESSIE LYDIA WALKER late of 27
Melody Street Coogee. —TAKE NOTICE
that HAROLD WALKER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1460 of 1954 on the
grounds of desertion without reasonable
cause by reason of your failure tq comply
with a decree for restitution of conjugal
rights in suit No. 707 of 1953 made
against you by this Court on the Sixteenth
day of December 1953 If you wish to
defend you must enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by x the Fifteenth day of
July 1954 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from JOHN W.
SALMON, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
21a Belmore Road, Randwick, or his
City Agent, R. H. RICHARDS. Solicitor,
160 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney. DATED
this 29th day of April, 1954. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
WILL JAMES HALL LIVINGSTON, who
migrated to Australia from Canada about
1910, or any children, descendants, or
any person aware of their whereabouts,
please communicate with the District
Manager, PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Gore.
New Zealand ?
WOULD anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of JOHN COCHRANE (or
OOCKRANE), late of Toowoomba, Queens-
land, or his descendants, please communh
cate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Nelson, New Zealand?
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1073
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
ADD
4
without FAB!
WITH A
Sap
CONTEX
£23/io/
personal portable
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of-* country as well as city users.
Here’s a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books ” Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors Contex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy,
in £.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
Write to
CHARTRES
Ltd.
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
ADELAIDE:
29 Grenfell St.
MELBOURNE:
375 .Collins St.
BRISBANE :
256-278 Wickham St. ;
Valley
PERTH ; Also at:
E. C Stott & Co., HOBART, LAUNCESTON.
Howard St. DBVONPORT
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra .
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Jorda-Smeterlin Concert
In the swirling and thunderous
willy-willy of the finale of
Manuel de Falla’s “Three Cor-
nered Hat” suite, which ended
Saturday night’s concert in Syd-
ney, Enrique Jorda’s was prob-
ably the coolest head in the
Town Hall. It is true that his
conducting is a kaleidoscope of
fluttering fingers moving towards
him to bring up the volume
while an inexhaustible set of
imperious and annunciatory
forefingers are thrown at the
entry of every instrument and
section, of arm-movements
smoothing over phrases like
chocolate-icing, and swaying
footwork that a matador might
envy turning his whole body to
govern and follow the charge of
the orchestral bull. But his head
is too full of effects to surrender
him to frenzy: conducting with-
out score, he beats little regular
time, but moulds the music as
it flows past him.
Hurrying in without a pro-
gramme, one was able to ob-
serve without preconceived ideas
his method in the unfamiliar
Roussel work. It opens with
woodwind moaning in the
strangely impersonal manner
Debussy taught it through
strings fluttering as Debussy
made them flutter, suggesting
leafage: a forest, one imagined,
which turned into a waltz, a
march, more forests ; then some-
thing like a pandemonium with
everything thrown in, and then
a most startling effect in the
brass, suggesting the screeching
of huge birds. At half-time,
securing a programme, one
found that one had only to
scale-down one’s impressions;
it was a set of ballet-fragments
concerning spiders, butterflies
and praying-mantes; “Le Festin
de 1’Araignee.”
To appreciate such music, one
has not only to hear it often but
also to forget the old values of
line-aAd-form and become re-
ceptive to color-harmonies and
dissonances that have no'pur-
pose but to melt into other color-
harmonies and dissonances ;
moreover, one needs to hear it
done perfectly by a conductor
bred to it; and Jorda is the
man for the job.
But when it comes to using a
similar technique on old black-
and-white Beethoven you get a
performance of the Fourth
Symphony like morning in a
jeweller’s-shop: “You like that
bracelet, madame? Let me show
you one with another theme;
it has this matching pendant . . .
Ah, you prefer the first brace-
let? I’ll show it to you in
another light, and with diamonds
instead of sapphires . . . Yes,
I can develop you one in the
same style, only more highly
decorated . . Theme, second
theme, episode, development—
he shows you everything so
clearly as almost to make you
feel he has stopped the music
so that you can appreciate it at
your ease. Meanwhile old Don
Ludovico is complaining to
another assistant that he doesn’t
want a glass paperweight full of
compressed flowers but a cigar-
ette-box that plays “The Har-
monious Blacksmith” when you
lift the lid.
All one could see of Jan
Smeterlin was his head over
the top of the piano as he played
the Rachmaninoff Number 2
concerto, with his hooded old
elephant-eyes turning sagaciously
to Mr. Jorda, weaving about
behind the piano, at crucial
moments of the attack. Far too
experienced in life and music to
give the famous slow movement
the drooping moments of youth-
ful and overlush melancholy one
likes to hear in it, he made a
wonderfully firm, clear job of
the last movement, showing us
many things there that we had
not seen before,
* ❖ *>
“Sawing Thru a Lady”
At Melbourne Princess, lately
given over to ballet and grand
opera, the Amazing Rooklyn
has made his appearance as an
oasis of mystery and magic in
an ocean of vaudevillians' who
include George Wallace, Jenny
Howard, Wally Nash and his
Musical Tricksters and Jacque-
line Waye and her Sunkist Love-
lies.
Mr. Rooklyn causes moder-
ate amazement by effecting the
disappearance of sundry females
who have previously been placed
in boxes, cupboards, fishing-nets
and gilded cages, and their sub-
sequent reappearance none the
worse for the adventure. Un-
fortunately, he has the trick of
making his miracles appear far
too easy, so that the amazement
doesn’t deepen from one act to
another until he comes to the
trick entitled “Sawing Thru a
Lady” billed as the most sensa-
tional illusion of our era.
The lady is sawn thru by a
crosscut-saw driven by an elec-
tric-motor. That it is the genuine
article Mr. Rooklyn made quite
clear by first sawing thru a piece
of timber. There was the usual
heartrending rip and roar and
the chips flew in all directions.
He then hypnotised the lady,
laid her carefully down in the
path of the saw, and then de-
liberately, and no doubt of
malice aforethought, ripped
thru the lady’s stomach.
Unable to see thru Mr, Rook-
lyn, the present . commentator
rushed for the nearest exit,
and, torn thru and thru with
horror, shot thru.
❖ *> ❖
“Top of the Bill”
The new Phillip Street
Theatre’s opening revue, “Top
of the Bill,” owes most of its
success to its witty burlesque
sketches and the high vitality of
its cast. Of its other ingredients,
the ballet is rather scrappy, the
spectacle is merely hinted at and
the straight singing has not the
soaring tunefulness which is
really necessary for revue.
But those things are satisfac-
tory enough as variety and con-
trast to the skits on Sydney life
(perhaps too often from a
theatrical angle) and such a nos-
talgic number as “Take Me
Back,” where a middle-aged
theatregoer stands outside Wool-
worths and recalls the days of
Her Majesty’s Theatre.
Margo Lee, who needs a
microphone when singing quite
as much as the actress she paro-
dies in the wickedly funny
“Hays Office,” excels in “Bali
Hoo,” a Marx Bros, sort of
thing wherein “The Consul” gets
mixed-up with “South Pacific.”
Gordon Chater and Charles
Tingwell are both very funny,
polished and professional. Sup-
porting them almost brilliantly
are Ken Hannam, Lola Brooks
(a “ball of fire”), Lyle O’Hara, a
very talented comedienne of the
lugubrious type, and John Flem-
ing.
The standard of the sketches,
which were written by Gerry
Donovan, John McKeliar, pro-
ducer William Orr and musician
Lance Mulcahy, is rather let
dowh in “Seven Deadly Scenes”
and “Patrons of the Arts,” but
the general impression the show
leaves is of excellent entertain-
ment, wit, speed and liveliness.
❖ ❖ *
“Jitta’s Atonement”
“Jitta’s Atonement,” at the
Metropolitan Theatre, Sydney,
is -by Siegfried Trebitsch as
translated by George Bernard
Shaw, but there is a good deal
more of G.B.S. in it than of
Herr Trebitsch.
In the first act Jitta, the wife
of a psychiatrist, promises her
lover, another psychiatrist, that
after his death his book will be
published under her husband’s
name. This is to make atone-
ment to the husband for having
wronged him. Shortly after this
the lover dies in circumstances
very compromising to Jitta, who
slides out of them with much
misgiving.
From' that situation could
arise tragedy, melodrama or
comedy, but as G.B.S. takes
over the play from that point
the familiar Shavian mood of
ironic comedy becomes increas-
ingly strong and the play grows
proportionately more amusing.
Marcia Hathaway was de-
lightful as Jitta, with her affec-
tations and mature-mannered
grace, her rich voice and ele-
gant deportment. Kenneth
Warren, as the husband, seemed
at first a conventional “comic,”
with flowing moustaches, gawky
posture, loud suits and splutter-
ing indignation, then he gradu-
ally developed the warmth and
sanity of the character in a
very engaging way. The rest
of the parts were competently
done, June Salter, as the
daughter, providing a good foil
for Jitta’s airy casuistries with
her own callow earnestness.
The period—l92o, just before
the saxophone, the cocktail-
party, the Charleston —is well
caught in Lesley Lindsay’s cos-
tumes (though the hats sacrifice
truth to humor, surely) and
Colin Coates’s decor.
The play was produced by
John Appleton.
* ❖ *
Swords, Daggers, etc.
The “Parade of Arms,” pre-
sented by the Swords Club at
Sydney’s Assembly Hall, had,
according to the commentator,
“the biggest death-roll of any
play seen in Sydney since the
last performance of ‘Hamlet.’ ”
As there were 22 scenes in it
with at least one death per
scene, it is more likely to have
set an all-time record.
Its grim theme —the various
means men have used to exter-
minate one another from the
Stone to the Atomic Age—was
illustrated by duels with clubs,
swords, axes, spears, rapiers,
daggers, broomsticks antf toma-
hawks.
Charles I had his head cut
off (on the stage), Joan of Arc
was burned at the stake, a
Japanese gentleman committed
hara-kiri and Australian natives
speared a wallaby (or maybe a
kangaroo), which was an un-
conscionably long time adying.
Yet, for all that, the show
was exceedingly funny. The
producers—Joan Beck (Profes-
sor of the British Academy of
Fencing) and Owen Weingott—
set Kevin Brennan to commen-
tate on the episodes and to link
them together with a lecture
based on 1066 and All That, but
further developed and salted
with extra witticisms and asides,
Mr. Brennan’s bland voice and
rubicund severity exactly suited
the task, and, coupled with the
humorous episodes, made the
parade a most lighthearted
business.
Artbursts
Dunlop Contest
The results of the Dunlop
competition are showing at Tye’s
Gallery in Melbourne. Harley
Griffiths shares' the £4OO first-
prize with Lloyd Rees for an
“Interior” the late Bernard Hall
might have painted. In “The
Fields of Gerringong” Rees has
a somewhat attenuated land-
scape.
Third-prize of £lOO goes to
Clive R. Steward for “Eroded
Hills,” which is topographical
rather than aesthetic. There is a
warmth and richness about “The
Old Fiddle” of Graham Moore,
however, which justifies* the £75
he got.
Scott Pendlebury’s “Royal
Visit Impression,” Len Annois’s
“The Pentland ' Hills”—which
got second-prize in the water-
color seetjon—and “The Oldest
Inhabitant” of Charles Bush are
up to their usual standards.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by BANT SINGER
SHE tosses her head and
keeps going. But she’s
slowed down and kind of
accidentally veers towards
the road a little.
“Listen, Candy, don’t wear
that gorgeous figure out too soon.
Hop in.”
She don’t look at me. She gives
a quick look round and says, still
walking and not looking at me,
“Not herfc. Everyone can see
me. I’d get in trouble if I did.
There’s a lane back of the post-
office.”
She veers away and speeds up
her walking. I stop the car and
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
get out and go round the back
and look underneath. Anybody
watching sees I slowed down and
stopped because I hear some-
thing under the car. The pigeon
is a chain away, walking like
she’s got business somewhere.
Like she don’t even know there’s
a blue sedan pulled up behind
her.
I give a back wheel a bit of a
kick, look underneath again,
then get back under the steering-
wheel and push off. I go past
the pigeon in a rush, hit the high-
way, sight the post-office and a
side road. After I turn into the
side road there’s a lane. I turn
into it. The back of the post-
office is a high paling fence with
a big double gate and in the
double gate a little gate. That’s
where I stop the car, with the
engine idling.
Just, when I think I bought a
bob-tailed-flush the little gate
squeaks and the pigeon comes
through. She’s in the car beside
me in one second flat and she's
crouched down low.
“Don’t hang round, you dope,”
she says. “Someone’ll see us.”
I, go out of that lane and on to
the highway and head for Allen-
dale. A mile out of Willets I’m
doing fifty and she sits up in the
seat and gives a laugh.
“You got a cheek,” she says.
» “Man sees something like you.
Candy, in a dump like that,
makes him cheeky,”
“Where you get this Candy
line?”
“Just came to me. Because
you’re sweet enough to eat.”
“You’re awful. You know too
much.”
“I been around. You want
me to drive faster?”
“I don’t care.”
“How long I got you for?”
“What do you think I am?
You haven’t got me at all,
Smarty. What sort of a car is
this?”
“Xs if you care. What’s a
piece of candy like you wasted
in Willets for?”
“Mind your own business.
And you needn’t call me Candy.
I’m Lorraine.”
Not much traffic on the high-
way. We go through Allendale
at fifty. The sun throws long
Shadows across the road. The
front seat of the sedan holds
three comfortable. The pigeon
don’t like open spaces. She
comes away from the open space
between her and the door and
gets close to me. I take a hand
off the wheel and put it across
her shoulders and pull her closer.
She pulls herself away. Kind
of reluctant.
“You’re going too fast for
that,” she says.
I start to slow down.
“No,” she says. “I love speed.
Don’t you? How fast can you
go? Show me how fast you can
go.”
Hardly any traffic. The high-
way is wide open and straight.
So she wants speed. I haven’t
had time to look her over
properly, but she wants speed,
O.K. Speed she gets.
When the needle nudges
seventy-two she starts to scream.
Not fright screams, thrill
screams. You got imagination
you sometimes see a thin, bright
flash of light and it’s like a kind
of white scream. Lorraine
screams like thin blades of light.
She screams like something’s
happening to her and it’s about
the best thing ever happened. I
can’t look at her, because of the
speed, but I hear the screams and
feel her thrilling and it’s all right
with me.
After about ten miles she stops
screaming and kind of slumps
and I ease off and let the sedan
down to about thirty.
“Oh,” she says. “Oh, gee!
Can you drive! How far did we
come? Oh, gee! Thanks. That’s
the best ride I ever had.”
I roll the car along, steady, and
let the pigeon simmer down. She
edges herself against me and I
slow some more and when I put
my arm round her she gives a
kind of sigh and tries to get
closer.
“Candy’s the right name for
you,” I says. I make my voice
cuddle her. “Because you’re real
sweet. You don’t scare easy*
neither. I like a girl that’s sweet
and don’t scare,”
“You’re no good,” she says.
“You’re too fast to be any gobd.”
What she means is I’m no good
and that’s the way she likes it.
“You’re a darling,” I tell her,
“But you oughtn’t to wear pink,
I know something you’d look a
lot better in than pink,”
“What?”
“Moonlight.”
It don’t hit her for a minute.
I keep one arm round her and
the other on the wheel and the
car rolls along. I’m waiting for
it to hit her.
She’s blonde and plump. She
fills the dress well in front and
got the kind pf hips go with that
kind of front. I’ve seen her
face now. Peaches and cream,
blue eyes, big mouth red with
lipstick. Easy mouth. Easy and
hungry and merry. She’d laugh
more than she’d cry. She’s what
they call a stock model. All
these Willets towns got girls like
Lorraine. Some people scorn
them, but most everybody likes
them. Because they’re open and
happy and don’t see much wrong
with the world or having what
they can get and giving what they
got. And they know everybody
in the town and what goes on.
Because they get told things.
They give love and they get
secrets.
“Moonlight?” she says. “What
color dress goes with moon-
light?”
“'No color dress,” I tell her.
“Just moonlight.”
It’ll hit her any second now.
Any year now some Willets boy
will marry her and she’ll step up
the giving. Only it’ll be children
she’ll be giving him. Because
girls like her, that’s what they’re
meant for, too. And she’ll give
the children all she’s got, like
love and laughs and plenty to eat,
and think of nothing else but her
husband and the children and
maybe a night at the pictures.
And if trouble comes to some-
one Lorraine will be right there,
not saying much, but cooking a
hot meal and doing a bit of
cleaning and giving again. All
these big, soft, plump, fair,
merry girls born to give and
“Oh, you’re just awful. I
wouldn’t let anyone see me like
that.”
Wouldn’t she? If she liked
him?
I tighten my arm around her.
“I know that, Candy. It’s just
what I think. Just dressed ■in
moonlight you’d take a man’s
breath away and wherever he
went and no matter how long he
lived he’d always have it in his
memory for the loveliest thing—
for the loveliest thing. I know I
would.”
She don’t say anything, but I
feel a ripple in her body where
my arm touches it.
“Listen, Lorraine. Listen,
Lorrie. Do we have to stay on
the highway?”
“I’m not that kind of girl. I
only just met you. I don’t even
know you. Just because I came
for a ride you”——
“The name’s Delaney. People
like me they call me Del. Call
me Del, Lorrie. Maybe we only
just met, but that don’t make no
difference. I’m mad about you,
Lorrie. Can’t we get off the
highway?”
Because she’ll know things
► about Willets. About these
Rosses. Maybe about Carson.
! So I got to get her off the high-
i way. Now what I told her about
the moonlight and the way she
ripples has me hot, too, and I
got to get her off the highway
because she’s a giver and because
she’ll know about Willets. In
this game you’re on your own
and you can combine business
with* pleasure you combine it.
“All right, dear. But just for a
little. It’s late and I’ve got to be
on at seven. So just for a little.”
“On at seven?” ■
“Switchboard. I work in the
Willets exchange. I got to go
o» at seven.”
Now I got to find out what she
knows. Because she works at
the exchange means she’ll know
• a damn’ sight more than I
thought. Lot goes through these
country exchanges.
Half a mile ahead the highway
goes through a pine plantation.
National forest. I run the car
there and turn off the road in
among the pines. The sun is
nearly down. My watch says
quarter-past six. I can get her
back to Willets inside half an
hour.
Quiet and lonely among the
pines. Dim, too. A breeze moans
a little up in the tree-tops.
Nobody can see the blue sedan
from the highway. There’s the
smell of resin and pine-needles
and the perfume Lorraine uses.
Eau-de-Cologne. I’ll bet it came
from the chain-store in Murray-
ford.
She turns on the seat and she’s
lying back in my arms and
there’s kissing and love play. She
knows plenty about kissing and
love play.
We come up for a breather.
“You go on at seven. What
time you come off?”
“Two o’clock.”
“In the morning?”
“Yes.”
“I’ll be in the lane, with the
car, by that little gate.”
“Do you want to?”
I put my arms round her again
to show her I want to. Then I.
push her away and get out of
the car quick and walk about and
come back and get in again.
“Liste'n, Candy, you think you
got a stone man with you? We
stay here another minute and
you’ll be late for work. Because
I won’t let you go we stay here
a minute longer.”
“Oh, God, darling. Promise
you’ll be there. Promise!” «
I wasn’t going to let her go.
Only she jerked away from me
and sat up.
“Take me back, dearest. Now.
I’d give anything to stay. Only
I’d get in trouble. Take me back.
I’ll be all ready for you at two
o’clock, I promise.”
I drive back, fast. It’s dusk
and I got the headlights on. Just
outside Willets she stops me,
kisses me and gets out. X kill the
headlights and the engine and
sit there while she runs into the
village. I light a cigarette and
sit there and cool down.
Then I turn round and drive
the car back through Allendale
and turn again and drive slow
back to Willets. That gives
Lome plenty of time. I pull
round to the pub and get out.
My bag is in the back-seat where
it’s been all the time.
Willets has died again. Lights
in the houses. Mercury lamps
over the highway. No street-
lights in Willets. There’s a
frosted bulb burning inside the
pub’s closed door. The bar door
is closed. Six p.m. is closing-
time in this part of the world.
I leave the car and move into
the darkness under the pub
veranda. I never even seen the
Americans, or maybe it was
the Russians. Anyway they let
the H-bomb go right there and it
blows me and the world apart.
I shoot up a million miles and
see big red and purple stars and
turn over and feel the cold like
ice and dive down and hit some-
thing and it explodes and every-
thing’s black.
9. SamPaddo
A FTER a while it’s still Slack,
and there’s a kind of rush-
ing sound and I open my eyes
to .see what it is. It’s nothing but
a big white light, right over my
eyes. The light is roaring and
my head kind of cold where the
bomb hit it. I lift my head to see
what makes it cold and a jolt
hits me and the pain makes me
sick and I stop lifting and put my
head back. Because the cold is
better than the pain.
The white light is small and
it’s a bulb hanging from a ceiling
and my head on a cushion and
somebody squeezing cold water
over my face and it’s this bar-
man. The pain is dull now, and
heavy, but it don’t jolt me.
“What hit me?”
“I told you to watch your
step,” he says. He takes the water
away and comes and sits on the
couch and looks at me and lights
a smoke.
“So you told me. That mean
you was in it, too?”
“In what?”
“In whatever hit me.”
“I ain’t got much time for
jokers like you,” he says. “No
time at all.”
“What I done to you?”
“I’ll take all sorts of care you
don’t do anything to me, mate.”
I go to sit up, but the pain hits
me and I got to go down again.
I’m still dressed, but my tie is
off and my shirt open.
I lie there and look at the
barman. He smokes his cigarette
and looks at the wall. Nothing
on his face, only what he says.
He hasn’t much time for me.
O.K. But he’s here and it was
him put the water on me. I know
WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD
Now convinced that Carson
was murdered, and pledged to
aid Mellish, a solicitor, and
Joyce Martin, Carson’s secre-
tary, in an attempt to prove it,
Delaney, himself on bail and
charged with the murder of De-
tective Jardine, does some think-
ing. Nobody has yet discovered
the identity of Mitchell, who is
working in the background. Re-
calling that Carson was killed
on the way from Allendale to
Murrayford, Delaney borrows
Carson’s car, makes a fake roll
of notes and sets out for Allen-
dale to pose as Carson’s partner.
In Willets he encounters Mac
and Bert Ross, and a strange
publican named Paddo. There
is a eucalyptus-mill and a strong
smell of molasses. Certain he is
on the verge of something,
Delaney sights a blonde in a
pink dress and decides to pick
her up.


now it wasn’t a bomb hit me.
“I got nothing against you,” 1
tell him. “I don’t know what
you got against me.”
• “Phah!” he says, “You make
me sick.”
This isn’t the way I want it.
I want to talk to him, but I make
him sick means he’s got some-
thing against me. I got a sore
head and my legs feel like water
and I make him sick. That’s sure
not the way I want it and
“How you feel?” he says, like
he don’t care.
“Oh, I’ll live, I guess. Maybe
that makes you sicker.”
“Think you can walk?”
“Maybe.”
“Give it a go.”
I sit up and drop my legs off
the couch and put my feet on the
floor. There’s pain shooting
through my head, but I force
myself up. When I get on my
feet the floor spins and I fall
dowp on the couch again. I lie
there. X know I’m in a parlor.
There’s this couch, and tables
and chairs. A servery in the wall
for drinks.
“Cut out the staging,” he says.
“They never hit you that hard.”
They?
“Who hit me?”
“Look, Delaney. Get on your
feet and get out of here, I don’t
want you here.”
“Who hit me?”
“Don’t be a ruddy dope. You
come out here, in Carson’s car.
You’re flashing a roll of notes.
You talk about being Carson's
partner. You’re on bail. You’ve
shot a cop. You”
“I didn’t shoot the cop.”
“All right. But you’re on bail.
You come out here and hang
round and and buy drinks.
Now you want to know who hit
you?”
“What the hell you talking
about?”
He goes oyer to a table and
dumps his cigarette in the ash-
tray there. Then he turns and
looks down at me.
“Don’t you know why they
jumped you?” he says.
“I don’t even know who
jumped me?”
“You come out here, flashing
big dough, saying you’re
Carson’s partner, making like
you’re a big-shot, and you don’t
even know who jumped you?
Strike you dead, Delaney, didn’t
you expect somebody to jump
you?”
“What’s your name?”
“Paddo. Sam Paddo. But you
never seen me in your life
before.”
“Before God, Sam, you got me
right down deep in the dark.
You got me floundering like a
street-girl at a christening.” ,
He gets out another cigarette
and lights it. He stands there,
holding the package. He blows
smoke out and looks down at
the floor. Then he flicks a hand
and the cigarette-pack lands on
my chest. I get out a cigarette
and feel for a match. No
matches. That means
“Hey, they go through me?
When they knocked me?”
“Yair,” he says, dryly. “Not
right through you. They was on
the way to your hip-pocket when
I got among ’em.”
“You got among ’em?”
“That’s right. Just before they
got to y»ur hip I got among ’em.
That’s why you still got your
roll.”
I put a hand down and feel my
hip and pull out the roll. It’s
there, twenty-odd frogskins
wrapped round newspaper
dummies. I shove it back and
try my other pockets. Not a
thing. They got the lot.
“Listen, sport,” I says. “Like
I said, you got me in the dark.
How about striking a light? I
never done you no harm and I
never intended to,”
This Sam Paddo man walks up
and down a little. Then he puts
on a poker face and sits on the
couch and looks at me.
“All I want you to do is get
up and get out of here and stay
out,” he says.
“But you got among ’em,
when they jumped me. You got
among ’em and stopped ’em and
you brought me in here. I don't
get you, Sam!”
“They jump anybody in my
doorway that’s my business,” he
says. “They jump you some-
where else it’s not my business.
Because I got my licence to
protect. I told them that before.
I run this pub the fair-dinkum
way and I got a clean sheet. It’s
going to stay clean. That’s why
I got among ’em when I heard
the blue going on in my door-
way.; that’s why I want you out
of here right away.”
“You’re a hard nut, Sam.”
“I run this pub my way.”
“O.K. So it’s your pub and
you run it and you got a clean
licence to protect. So when they
jump me you get among ’em and
stop it and bring me in here and
pull me round. But that’s so far
as you go. Listen, Sam, I got to
go a lot further. That’s what I’m
here for. I”
“I told you, Delaney. What
happens outside my pub isn’t my
business. You ain’t my business,
now you can walk. Whatever
you’re in you’re on your own,
mate, far’s I’m concerned. So
I want you out of here. I don’t
like you, I don’t like the business
you and Carson was in, and I
don’t like the birds you’re trying
to play with. So you”
“Sam, listen. You got to listen.
What’s the business me and
Carson was in? Before God,
Sam, you got to tell me. If you
know.”
His face goes hard and cold.
“Out,”, he says. “And keep
away from my pub. You got
that!”
Only that I’m still sick and
sore I’d try to beat it out of him.
But he isn’t the kind you can
beat anything out of, not while
he can stand on his feet. Not
even when you got him down
and all he can do is keep his eyes
open. He just isn’t the kind you
can beat anything out of.
“Listen, Sam, give a man a
chance, will you! What business
was Carson and”
“Are you walking out,
Delaney, or do I heave you out?”
His mouth’s gone tight and
little white spots in his cheeks. He
means what he says. He don’t
want me in his pub after hours
and he’ll chuck me out. Just to
prove it, he’ll chuck me out. But
I got a kind of surging inside me,
because of what he says about
the business Carson and me was
in. Because I don’t know what
that business is, and I got ’to
know. This Sam Paddo thinks I
know. I got that far. I made
him think I really was in with
Carson. Maybe I made some-
body else think it. Maybe that’s
why I got done over. But I got
to get it out of Sam Paddo
somehow.
“All right,” I says. “I’ll walk
out. But maybe I’ll be back.
And I won’t be sick from a bash
on the nut when I come, either.”
“You can come,” he says, and
now he’s so screaming mad inside
he’d kick my teeth in. His voice
is low and it hates every bit of
me. “You can come! You, and
them Rosses and the rest of the
rotten mob that hawks that rot-
gut! It’ll be a cold, wet day
when I get scared of any of you.
Her, too! And you can tell ’em
I said so. You can come. I’ll be
ready! You come any time you
feel like it. Now”
He grabs me by the arms.
Strong, he grabs me. I’m too
sick to do much about it. He
kicks the door open with one
foot and whirls me out and
shoves me through the door.
I take a couple of steps, getting
my balance. I’m in the dark,
under the veranda outside the
pub, and can’t see well. Because
I been switched sudden from the
lighted room into the dark.
So I stand there a second or
so, getting my eyes clear and my
head steady, I see the sedan
standing where I left it. I get
to it and feel my way round the
bonnet to the driver’s door and
get the door open and slide in
under the wheel.
There’s somebody in the front
seat. Somebody big and smelling
faintly of hair-oil,
“You been having fun,
Delaney?”
I never heard that voice before.
I never heard it before, but
it clears my head. Because the
man owns it isn’t in my car for
nothing.
10. Lester Ross
QO there’s this stranger in the
car and it’s too dark to see
him properly and all I know is
he’s about as big as me and got
a faint hair-oil smell. He’s too.
sudden, too. X want him there
and I don’t want him there. I
want him there because he’s a
stranger and he comes out of
the night in Willets and sits in
my car, and someone strange
does that means I’m getting some-
where. But I don’t want him
just yet, because now I got to
think fast about him and be
ready to meet his play and watch
it. I got to do that and keep on
my toes or I make a false step.
I got a sore place on the back of
my head tells what could happen
for a false step. Because the
birds gave me the sore head
aren’t playing for peanuts.
So I got to face this big gink
with the hair-oil and be ready.
But it’s a bit too quick, because
I haven’t sorted out Sam Paddo.
I wanted a little time to sort out
Sam Paddo. Because of what
he said about rotgut and what he
said about “Her, too! ” Now it’s
got to wait. Because there’s this
gent, with the hair-oil in my
car. #
“Do I know you?” I says.
“Not yet. You soon will.”
“Start telling me.”
“How did you get on with Sam
Paddo?” he says. He says it
lightly, like it don’t matter. So
that means it does matter. How
do I play it about Sam Paddo?
“Hell with Sam Paddo!” I
says.
Hair-oil gives a laugh. So
that’s all right. The laugh means
me and him is on the same team
and Sam Paddo isn’t on it.
“Any time,” he says, “you
want anything dished out to Sam
all you need do is whistle.”
“Any time,” I says, “I want
anything dished out to Sam I’ll
do it myself. That’s me.”
I want him to get it that I’m
Delaney and talking big and a
bit cagey.
He gets it.
“I’m Lester Ross,” he says.
Think fast, Del. He's Lester
Ross and the way he says it
means you ought to know Lester
Ross. How ought I know Lester
Ross?
Carson!
That’s it. I’m Carson’s partner
means I ought to know Lester
Ross.
“Well,” I says, making like
I’m prickly about it, “you took
your time about showing.”
“Of course I did. I was waiting
for you to come to me. When
you didn’t I got a bit doubtful.
Way I heard it you seemed to be
feeling your way,”
“You bet I was feeling my
way. Look, Carson sends- for
me, see? He don’t put anything
in the telegram. Don’t give me
a hint. So I come. I get off
the plane in Murrayford and
about the first thing happens I
get pinched”
This Lester Ross starts
laughing.
“I heard about that,” he says.
“She thought you were me. You
were taken in charge in mistake
for me.” He reaches forward
and snaps on the dash-light.
“You must look like me,” he
says. “Let’s have a look at you,
Delaney.”
So I sit still and let him have
a look at me. I look at him. I
wouldn’t say he was like me,
except for size. And I don’t use
hair-oil. So I look at him and
his face goes kind of dim and
what I see is Joyce Martin’s face
looking at me. It’s like she was
looking at me through him and
her mouth asking for something
and her hazel eyes with the glow
in them. I keep my hands on the
wheel because this is the heel
annoyed her and it goes througn
me like a hot needle and what I
want is drag him out of the car
and go him. Not only because
of Joyce but because, way I see
it, I owe him something. So I
keep myTands on the wheel.
“Yair,” I says. 1 give him a
grin. His mouth is slightly open,
wearing a grin, and I see he’s a
whole lot not like me. Because
of his mouth and his empty face
and the set of the eyes.. He’s
like Lorraine. Mass-produced.
Small-town grafter. Scratches a
living taking peanuts from smail-
town peanut - players and
swaggers about like he’s some-
thing out of a special box. That’s
what he thinks he is. That’s what
I’m supposed to think he is.
Only I been around. I run into
shoals of Lester Rosses. In a big
town they herd together. They
herd together because a big town
scares them. Oh, they wear flash
clothes and always seem to have
money and girls and stand on
corners and make like they’re
wide. They’re so wide nobody
outside their circle can see them
—unless they look twice. And
when somebody looks twice it’s
either a cop wants them for
pinching peanuts or some big
noise in the rackets wants to use
them to pinch a car, or gang-up
on a bookie, or maybe beat-up
some drunk moll who spent her
dough on new underclothes
instead of handing it over.
In a small town —in a two-
men-and-a-dog town like this
Willets —they look an outsize
goldfish in a little bowl. Only
when somebody comes and digs
’em out of the bowl and holds
them up all they got is scales and
a whiteness round the gills. In
a small town like Willets they
maybe twiddle a bit on the ponies
and run a dice-game on per-
centage or sell beer on the black
or nylons pinched from the
freight-trains. Or they’re runners
for some undercover lurk con-
ducted by a citizen who looks
respectable and goes to church.
So I look this Lester Ross over
and know what he is and some-
how I think of him making passes
at Joyce Martin and I want to
kick his teeth in. Only he’s my
meat.
Because he couldn’t make
passes at Joyce unless he knew
about Carson and what game
Carson was playing. Because
Carson wasn’t no angel, but he
was mighty careful who fie
played with and he wouldn’t
have let a peanut-pedlar like this
Lester Ross within rifle-shot of
Joyce unless there was something
in it.
So there was something in it.
Lester Ross meant something to
Carson, but he wouldn’t mean
no more than a contact. So this
Ross is a contact and there was
somebody bigger than him —
somebody behind him meant
good dough for Carson. Ross
is the contact with that some-
body.
And I’m supposed to know it.
Because I’m Carson’s partner.
All right, so I know it. But also
I’m supposed to know more than
that. I’m supposed to know
about the somebody.
Only I don’t. Not yet. Because
I’m feeling my way. I’m like a
o Continued on page 30)
“Squeal,” I tell him. “Who was it?”


Keeping Up with the Atom Age
The New Army
2. —The Regulars and Their Cost
By "EK DUM"
““7“ HE Regular Australian
S Army is of such com-
y j plexity—something made
out of the experience of
World War II in the main—that
a recent announcement about
possible reduction of its strength
raises the question of where the
economisers can begin.
They can scarcely begin now
with the First (and only) Aus-
tralian Regular Infantry Brigade
Group, of which the strength on
February 24 last was 5671. This
represents about 22.4 per cent, of
the whole Regular Army. Of
the total of this Army roughly
8 per cent, is in Korea, 18.9 per
cent, either in Korea or used in
communication-lines for Korea
or in Australia for the support
of the Korean force.
Thus there are left for the
tasks of providing a base and
nucleus for Australian land de-
fence almost exactly 20,000 per-
sonnel, including about 1000
female soldiers.
One Regular of all ranks per
150 square miles devoted to the
defence of 3,000,000-odd square
miles of territory in the Com-
monwealth does not seem super-
fluity. And the conception of a
regular force disappearing con-
currently with the expansion of
a citizen force is scarcely in tune
with the circumstances of
modern war.
The day has gone when an
army could be formed by hand-
ing out a pocketful of cartridges
and a rifle to each of a large
number of men. The multi-
farious types of weaponry, the
necessities of signalling and
transport, the very art of arrang-
ing personal security in the face
of devastating firepower, and the
high scientific standard of war
in general make it impossible
for any but the expert to have
and teach complete proficiency
in any combat branch.
Men must be retained iq suffi-
cient numbers on a regular basis
to begin the training of a large
army, in case of emergency, to
obviate the chance that there will
arise in the beginning of a new
war one of those bottlenecks
which delayed action in the last
one, and even hampered peace-
time training when National
Service, with all its limits, was
introduced bottlenecks in
specialists, in non-commissioned
officers, in armorers and artifi-
cers of various kinds.
Furthermore, it is not merely
necessary to have a sufficiency
of these in all branches to under-
take whatever is. believed to be
necessary in case of full mobili-
sation. They must be divided
into workable units over a large
number of bases, so that they
may be regularly available for
citizen-force training, and may
be familiar with particular local
conditions.
+ 4-
Iff fact, the more the country
decides to depend on a citizen
military force, the greater will
have to be the expansion of cer-
tain features of the Regulars if
efficiency is to be maintained.
The present Regular organisa-
tion is roughly as follows; The
field force is distributed over
seven bases including Korea,
Puckapunyal has the First
Armored Regiment elements, the
First Armored Regiment Signal
Troop, the First Infantry Brigade
Signal Troop, the First Company
of the Royal Australian Army
Service Corps, the Second Field
Ambulance, the Armored Regi-
ment Light Aid Detachment
(electrical and mechanical en-
gineers) and its Transport Co.
R.A.A.S.C. Light Aid Detach-
ment.
The artillery base is George’s
Heights, Sydney, where are the
First Field Regiment and its
Light Aid Detachment of elec-
trical and'mechanical engineers.
The Engineers have the First
Infantry Brigade Ordnance
Field-park at Singleton (N.S.W.),
and Seventh Independent Field
Squadron is at Casula (N.S.W.).
The Brigade’s infantry is
even more scattered. The
First Battalion left Australia on
March 20 for Korea to relieve
the Second Battalion, which re-
turned to Australia on April 16.
The Third Battalion is allotted
to Korea. The Second Bat-
talion’s base in Australia is
Enoggera (Q.), save for one
company at Watsonia (Vic.).
This, of course, is merely the
expeditionary force of the Regu-
lar Army, for the training staffs
of the National Service scheme,
numbering 3128, are also scat-
tered, and at the eighth intake of
recruits for the scheme they
show an increase of 1000 since
1950, which gives a fair indica-
tion of the extra demands which
will be made on manpower if
National Service is brought up
to full establishment of 113,976
and 279 units, against the present
strength of 70,657 (78 new units
were raised during 1953). The
training battalions which the
Regular Army is called on to
staff with officers and n.c.o.s—
most of whom to-day have the
advantage of Korean experience
—number ten: the 11th, Wacol
(Q.); 12th and 19th, Golds-
worthy, and 13 th, Ingleburn
(N.S.W.); 14th and 15th and
20th, Puckapunyal (Vic.); 16th,
Woodside (S.A.); 17th, Swan-
bourne (W.A.); 18th, Brighton
(Tas.).
The day is fast coming when
the outbreak of a war will see few
Citizen officers fitted to at once
occupy higher field commands.
This does not mean that during
war Citizen commanders will not
continue to emerge in the higher
ranks as they gain experience;
but the profession of officer is
becoming more and more tech-
nical, and efficiency more and
more dependent on long and
specialised training in some par-
ticular branch. This tendency
becomes more evident with the
growth of invention and the
development of new secrecies in
method and equipment, with the
advanced science which goes
with the atom age.
Before World War II Dun-
troon was the only major
scholastic institution of- the
Army, and it was a sort of Cin-
derella, for longish periods not
lavish in its curriculum or staff,
depressing in its facilities and
amenities. But perforce this
grand Alma Mater of some of
the most distinguished Austra-
lians, men who came to the top
between 1939-45, sometimes with „
sensational swiftness and con-
clusiveness —Rowell, Vasey, Ber-
ryman, Robertson and the rest —
has been turned inside-out in the
past few years to meet modern
requirements.
Its courses and general en-
semble have had a thorough
going-over. In 1949 its aban-
doned four-year basis of train-
ing was re-introduced. The 270-
odd youths who inhabit it
are picked and educated at
Commonwealth expense. They
are selected with great care from
all classes of the community
strictly on the test of suitability
and aptitude and basic educa-
tion. The college curriculum is
searchingly examined by a com-
mittee consisting of the Com-
mandant (in these days a major-
general with the widest kind of
experience), the Director-General
of Commonwealth Education,
representatives of the Sydney,
Melbourne and National Uni-
versities, plus the Director of
Military Training and the
Engineer-in-Chief. It provides a
equal to a professional
degree-course at a university,
plus a discipline and a character-
conditioning equal to that pro-
vided by any institution in the
world.
Through intensive tree-plant-
ing and the replacement of the
old railway-station types of
building with modern barrack
accommodation, Duntroon has
recently lost most of its drab-
ness of surroundings. It has
acquired a new engineering de-
partment, a swimming-bath, a
cinder-track of national standard
and a rising esprit de corps
which makes its parades some-
thing to see. Its intake of 65
Australians and 12 Maorilanders
a year forms as fine an aggrega-
tion of youth as it would be pos-
sible to bring together.
But that is only the first stage
in producing staff and other offi-
cers. Since World War II other
educational facilities have been
developed on a grand scale at
the higher training levels. Each
department of military art or
science acquired between 1945
and 1951 its school or training-
centre.
+ +
Where before the war Aus-
tralians went for higher staff
courses to Camberley and/or
Woolwich and Quetta, now Aus-
tralia has its own Staff College
at Queenscliff (Vic.), which works
on a reciprocal basis with other
colleges of the British Common-
wealth, taking in some of their
officers and sending our own to
them —U.K., Canada, N.Z., U.S.,
India, Pakistan, Burma. R.A.A.F.
and the civic staff of the Army
are all included in the college’s
acceptance at present, while our
officers are sent abroad not only
to colleges but to secure experi-
ence at oversea training estab-
lishments which are not in the
staff field, and to other armies
which provide practice at
levels not available in a country
in which the field force consists
only of a brigade group.
There are in Australia now,
run by the Regular Army,
schools of artillery, military
engineering, ordnance, land/air
warfare, armor, tactics and
administration, survey, signals,
infantry, Army health. Even the
musicians and the W.R.A.A.C.
have schools. The R.A.E.M.E. 1
and Transport have training
centres. Most of these in 1951
had to suspend technical quali-
fying courses while National
Training was got under way, but
they are coming back to normal
routine this year,
In January, 1952, the Officer
Cadet School at Portsea (Vic.)
was founded. This, besides help-
ing to qualify subalterns for units
and Korea and other overseas
areas, is doing its part in help-
ing to meet the needs of National
Service and expanded C.M.F.
battalions. Its outgo is about 50
officers average per annum —last
December, 52.
The capacity is 75 students
per course, with two courses a
year, each course of 22 weeks’
duration. And its matriculation
calls for high standards of
character and physique and
adaptability rather than for
educational qualification.
The students are entered be-
tween 18 and 23 and musk have
passed the Intermediate. They
are trained in subjects common
to all corps. They graduate as
second-lieutenants, after which
they must pass the Leaving Cer-
tificate examination, and attend
post-graduate courses at the
appropriate schools. At the end
of four years they can expect to
be full lieutenants. The bourse is
being extended.
Still another activity is the
Central Instructors’ School at
Kapooka (N.S.W.), which fights
a continuous, and sometimes
losing, battle with the shortages
in n.c.o. instructors, more par-
ticularly in National Service
battalions. It is a school of
leadership rather than of drill.
Its personnel is drawn from re-
cruits to the Regular Army, in
the main. Each recruit for the
Army is examined for “instruc-
tor potential,” and if he seems
to have the right stuff he is a
marked man from the begin-
ning.
The qualities looked for in
,the present age would shock the
old-time Guardsman n.c.o. The
foghorn voice, the ironing-board
back, the vocabulary, and the
vacant spaces where the aspirates
ought to be are all things of the
past. The ideal n.c.o. of the
modern Australian Army is a
mild-mannered fellow, well-edu-
cated and well-spoken, with the
qualities of the captain of a
Rugby fifteen rather than of a
flogging bosun. He is expected
to lead, not drive, and to be as
easy on both the eardrums and
the nerves as he can. The divid-
ing line between the commis-
sioned and non-commissioned
types is becoming much thinner.
Then, of course, there are the
specialists who get some of their
military education in strange
places—in the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment, at technical colleges (73
just now), at universities (27), in
England (79), and even with
William Angliss and Company,
butchers.
The Army Apprentice School
was opened in the post-war era
to meet a decided shortage of
scientific and technical man-
power—mostly the gaps were in
the maintenance and repair
organisations, which were ever
calling for more engineers and
highly-skilled artisans.
Its establishment is 24 officers
and 112 other ranks and 450
trainee-apprentices—the output
this year should be 120. The
standards demanded are shown
by the fact that 450 scientists •
and engineers of university-
degree level are now in the
Regular Army, which has a
complement of 3000 highly-
skilled tradesmen and 1500
rated “of medium skill.”
Some have had advanced
training abroad at the Rpyal
Military College of Science at
Woolwich, some have been
attached to other overseas insti-
tutions working in the experi-
mental field or in design ; some
are technicians trained in build-
ing and the electrical and metal
trades at the School at Bal-
combe. But all —comprising
more than one-sixth of the whole
Army, including the field force
■—have experience which would
equip them not only for military
but for engineering and artificer
occupations in civil, life.
Within the Service, too,
another tendency has been
noticeable with the improvement
of the. standard of education and
technical and scientific training
—the growth of a new integra-
tion and co-operation between
branches and services. Each
section of Defence is no longer
closed shop to the rest. Joint
planning and exchange of in-
formation are part of the natural
functioning of the Services,
naval, military and air.
At high levels a joint war-
production committee, with an
industrialist with war-time
experience as a chairman, attends
to the correlation of material
requirements and the co-ordina-
tion of production programmes.
A Maintenance and Materials
Committee considers, from its
own particular technical and
administrative angles, works,
supply, transport, munitions and
1 equipment, small craft and sal-
vage.
Salvage, by the way, has be-
come an important factor of
battlefield organisation. Old
tanks and Bren-gun carriers do
not rust on Korean battlefields.
They go back to the Army re-
conditioning depot in Japan, and
nothing is wasted in them, even
if they have been hit with the
kitchen-sink.
+ +
A Personnel Committee
handles manpower, conditions
of service, medical services, edu-
cation, amenities, and honors
and awards. There are Defence
Research and Development,
Joint Planning, Joint Intelli-
gence, Administration, Land /Air
Warfare and Civil Defence com-
mittees.
All these are struggling with
the changing problems of
integrating all arms into the
overall picture of defence in
the atom age; with new
arms that do not arrive quickly
enough in the field of practice
and old arms that may stay
too long; with rapidly-expand-
ing Citizen and National forces
which call for ballooning works-
votes for barracks and new
depots; with the rising cost of
weapons and the defences against
them; and with the questions
which 'grow out of the need of
giving the soldier every protec-
tion and everything necessary to
knock over a maximum of other
soldiers without turning him into
a human elephant or four-ton
walking blitz-wagon.
They deal with the factors
brought into training and opera-
tion through the exit of the era
of high-muzzle-velocity weapons
firing solid steel balls at tanks,
and the entry of the era of the
real contest between armor —the
heart of the newest type of
modern battlefield —and rockets
and recoil - less guns with
which a weary infantryman in
the next war will find that he
has personally to cope: with the
No. 94 A.T.R. grenade weighing
Ulb. which will penetrate heavy
armor at close quarters when
fired from a service rifle; with
the 3.5-inch rocket-launcher (an
improved, longer-range edition
of the “bazooka” which can be
handled by one man at a pinch);
with the 40mm. Bofors of the
new vintage, which are being
reconditioned to provide against
"the high speed, low-flying planes
that will be the plague of every
battle in World War 111. (This
weapon is emerging as a power-
operated version—with servo
motors built-in, both to traverse
and elevate it at a speed beyond
manual capacity —something
which will be highly necessary
wherever strafing is the vogue.)
Then there are the new rockets
to be coped with, though these
mostly concern the R.A.A.F.;
and the new Yeramba to be pro-
vided. What would Julius Caesar
have made of the Yeramba?—
a self-propelled, self-contained,
(Continued on page 30)


A PRODUCT OF THE
1
,# c
- i
a
toir^
e*
P
>1
-y r * ■ - V'--','/
-
-
M'■•?:<
! ;
. *■ .
mim
a ;
v: '■
,'. i*r -?
V..;;v : c-
■1
~
' . h
rwm.
S
m
- nsi
-
big
2,
•'Jd liy r
- fa// c/l/'Hsr n . k
£ST p **t67^ lN ' SH '*
N r «fal A Ny
P " HUMBER
I also
st (in class)
AUSTRALIAN
ALPINE TRIAL 1953
The /freu/
SUPER SNIPE
YOUR CAR IN ENGLAND
Buy in Australia, use over there, and have
it freighted back without extra charge.
Alternatively, you may hire one (chauffeur or
self-driven). See your distributor or dealer.
33JAH3S
SMOOI
ALL AUTHORISED DEALERS
DISPLAY THIS SIGN
Produced in the factory of
ROOTES (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED, Fishermen’s Bend, Port Melbourne
DISTRIBUTORS FOR HUMBER LIMITED
QUEENSLAND ; John McGrath Motors (Qld.) Pty. Ltd., 324 Wickham
Street, The Valley, Brisbane. L 4871
NEW SOUTH WALES : John McGrath Motors (Pty.) Ltd., 255-259
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA6838
VICTORIA : Neal’s Motors Pty. Ltd., 222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
FB 3481.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Commercial Motor Vehicles Ltd,, 165 Franklin
Street, Adelaide. LA 2201
WEST AUSTRALIA ; Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., 900 Hay Street,
Perth. BA 9361.
TASMANIA ; D. L. Hollis Motors Pty. Ltd., York and St, John Streets,
Launceston. Tel. 1676.


%
m
U
&
w*.
i
i
i
&
I
9
V,
I
I
with the NEW Fordson Major
Kerosene ,an^Model
i
ri
I
u
i
u
I
i
a
£
i»
3
a
N
>
»
*
I
n
w>
ii
«
o
*4A
I
N
I
i
r
2
H
i
9.
i
#%»»•
I
I
4
%
v.
w
I
y.
'A
V.
'A
&
M/'a
m
7ft
A U
£9lB
WITH
14
PLY
TYRES
28
FORD PLANTS
PRICE
ALL THIS STANDARD EQUIPMENT
IS INCLUDED IN KEEN PRICE . . .
Power Take-Off . . . 2-speed Belt Pulley
... Lighting and Starting Equipment..
“Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor . . . Front
Wheel Track Adjustments ... Radiator
Pressure Cap . . Radiator Shutters
. . . Large proof Toolbox.
More Farm-right Features than in any other tractor
NEW 6 - SPEED TRANSMISSION six
forward and two reverse gears give the
right gearing for every farm job including
fast trailer work,
NEW “TOUCH-CONTROL” HYDRAULICS
provide instant control through one lever
—raising, lowering and holding implements
in intermediate positions.
NEW 3 - POINT LINKAGE allows fast
attachment of mounted implements.
NEW RANGE OF “CROWN” MATCHED
IMPLEMENTS AND EQUIPMENT for greater
versatility in “round the farm” maintenance
and construction.
And many more advances which your Ford
Dealer will show you.
übu gcgocnaom
Also available in Australia’s most modern Diesel-fuelled model
FM6-448
Your local Fordson Dealer will supply further details •
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY LTD
"Incandescent
Genius"
Every time you watch the
movies, listen to the radio, send
a wire, pound the typewriter,
play a record, talk on the phone
or switch on a light, you’re in
debt to Thomas Edison, yet his
life was more dramatic than
any of his highly spectacular
inventions.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you a 24-page condensation
from the fascinating new
biography (based on recently
unearthed material) of one of
the most extraordinary men
America has ever produced.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you 30 stimulating articles
condensed from the world’s
leading magazines and current
books. On sale now one
shilling and sixpence all
newsagents and bookstalls.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Passage by
Vance Palmer.—s7B9.
Sydney schoolboy would like to get
in touch with young stamp-collectors
who would exchange Australian and
foreign stamps—s79o.
CiMtUR
Weekly,” showing two men hanging
from edge of building, one of whom
is saying: “For Gawd’s sake stop
laughing, this is serious.”—s79l.
Information Sought
Lht of winners of the Wimbledon
Jth, vinno it! inrentinn ?
g es tile s p
Till Norman Brookes won in 1907
all the winners were from Great
Britain. 1877, S. W. Gore; 1878,
P. F. Hadpw; 1879, 1880, J. T.
Hartley; 1881 to 1886, W. Renshaw;
1887, H. F. Lawford; 1888, E. Ren-
shaw ; 1889, W. Renshaw ; 1890, W. J.
Hamilton; 1891, 1892, W. Baddeley;
1893, 1894, J. Pim; 1895, W. Bad-
deley; 1896, H. S. Mahoney; 1897
to 1900, R. F. Doherty; 1901, A. W.
Gore ; 1902 to 1906, H. L. Doherty;
1907, N. E, Brookes (Aust.); 1908,
1909, A. W. Gore (Britain); 1910 to
1913, A. F. Wilding (N.Z.); 1914,
N. E. Brookes; 1915 to 1918, no
competition; 1919, G. L. Patterson
(Aust.); 1920, 1921, W. T. Tilden
(U.S.A.); 1922, G. L. Patterson;
1923 W M Johnston m q a ) • 1Q94
j Borotra (France)- 1925 R lacoste
rp r •>. igof, i Borom- IQ?7 H
Coch’et (Fr )’• 1928 R Lacoste - 1929
H. Cochet- 1930, W. t. Tilden : 1931’
S. B. Wood (U.S.A.); 1932 H. e!
Vines (U.S.A.); 1933’ J Crawford
(Aust.); 1934, 1935, 1936 F J Perry
S: 1 939 7 ’r 1 L 8 RiggsS A V
1940 to 1945/no competition; 1946,
T. Petra (France); 1947, J. Kramer
lU.S.A.); 1948, R. Falkenburg
/fre *\ ’ , E- Schroeder
(U g S.A)T% S 2
(u!a“ (AUS,J: 1953 ’ V ' Se “ as
* * * *
rj T/ .
l Queen Vic-
(r\ Did the vrent n * not amused ?
W W the great Queen lack a sense of
, , .
U) It was made upon her seeing
an imitation of herself done by the
Honorable Alexander Grantham
Yorke, Groom-in-Waiting to the
Queen from 1884 to 1901. (2) Queen
Victoria could be quite icy. For
instance, she wrote witheringly of
the suffragettes and other advocates
of women’s rights.” As another
instance, after having been invited to
a revivalist meeting conducted by
Moody and Sankey, who had claimed
to have reduced the population of hell
by a million, she wrote “It would
never do for me to go it is the
sort of religious performance which
is not wholesome.” And she wrote
scathingly to some of her Ministers,
Largely because of such firm expres-
s?ons °u her views > it is often assumed
Q u^ en lacked a sense of
h umor - This is far from correct. She
f ° nd °t te ‘ lin ? , an entertaining
u even ** tde went against
ne,rsell-
- J
’ * *
(7) Some information on aviatrix
Jean Batten's flights? (2) Did she
begin her 1935 and 1936 flights back
to England from Australia or N.Z.?
gfi? She W,U,en b °° ks « h ‘ r
. 0) Jean BaUen wa, born in N.Z.
, f i rst m England (m
1929) at the London Aeroplane Club,
where many famous aviatrixes, includ-
ing Amy Johnson, learnt to fly. After
coming back to N.Z. for a short while,
she returned to England in 1931, and
left for her first solo flight to AusS-
tralia in April, 1933. When she
reached India, engine-failure forced
her down, and she had to give-up the
flight. Returning to England, she took
off again a year later (April, 1934),
this time getting only as far as Rome,
where she ran out of petrol, and
again gave-up the attempt. She began
her third attempt on May 6, 1934,
and was this time successful, reaching
Darwin on May 23, her time of 14
days 22hrs. being over four days
shorter than Amy Johnson’s time,
On Oct. 5, 193.6, she left-London for
N.Z., reaching Darwin on Oct., 11, 5
days 21hrs. from England, and reached
Auckland on Oct. 22, 11 days 45min,
out from England. (2) Her two
flights to England were both from
Australia. In the first, she left Sydney
on April 9, 1935, but, with a forced
landing at Foggia (Italy) and delayed
at other places, her attempt on the
record failed; she eventually reached
England on April 30. On her second
flight she left Darwin on Oct. 19, 1936,
reaching Lympne (England) on Oct.
Sdia. S SUgt
bent Mhrs T)
1 2 joS
Pubhshed Solo Phght, and m 1938
y 1 ‘
A P
Br!ef Answe «
J. 8.: Since the constitution provides
that the chairman shall have an
original and casting vote, he is en-
titled to use it on all motions upon
which a vote is taken. A local book
on meeting procedure is Law and
Procedure at Meetings, by P. E. Joske,
Q.C.; a fuller one is Shackleton’s Pro-
cedure and Law Relating to Meetings.
F.W.C.: (1) The following weirs
are located on tributaries of the
Murrumbidgee River (N.S.W.) above
Burrinjuck Dam:—Queanbeyan Weir,
on the Queanbeyan River at Quean-
beyan; Googong Weir, on the Quean-
beyan River some miles above Quean-
beyan; Corkhill’s Weir, on the Mo-
longlo River at Molonglo; Burbong
Weir, on the Molonglo River at Bur-
bong; Cotter Dam, on the Cotter
River near Canberra; Yass Weir, on
the Yass River—town water-supply;
and railway water-supply weir, on
the Yass River below the Yass Weir.
(2) The Yass and Goodradigbee
Rivers flow into the Murrumbidgee.
The Fish River flows into the Mac-
quarie and Little River into Cox’s
River F.M.N.: A surveyor in 1837
got the name Tantenong (meaning
“lofty”) from the aborigines. It
was later changed to Dandenong.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on al\
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntdrily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
H.E.H.: You’ve a rugged, individu-
alistic style, but you’re much too raw
for print A.S.: Your rabbit-
trappers will have to set their traps
elsewhere... .S.C.W.: If you could
build the idea around something
more substantial it might stand a
chance W.R.D.: It doesn’t make
a yarn... .K.McA.: It trails off to
nothing U.E.: Bright, but not
quite for us H.C.: Uncle Bref
was given his walking ticket
H.V.C.: Of all the counterfeit-note
plots that one is about the oldest
C.T.R,: Sorry, but the grade was
too steep for little Billy J.F,: Just
a run-of-the-mill licking-the-bully
yarn A.F.: That type of story
belongs to a past era C.R.McL.:
True it may be, but you failed to
make it entertaining A.S.: Some
of the dailies that go in for those
kind of mysteries might snap it up
Z.P.: Julia will not adorn our pages.
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
P.V.: Send it to a women’s
paper J.D.Y.: It is 12,000 miles
off our beat and about 35 years too
late... .W.A.C.D.: Not wanting any
ghosts, thank you E.J.P.: Send-
ing old Michael back for burial
8.H.: Casey is not up to your usual
standard T.1.P.: No anchorage
in our pages for that small craft....
W.H.E.: Can’t see it interesting any-
body outside your immediate circle.
H.V.N.: “Going Home” is go-
ing home J.D.W.: Below your
usual standard L.P.: Had it
arrived 60 years ago we might have
printed it K.P.: Keep on trying
and don’t let early rejections get you
down R.J.C.: Yours is the
seventh bushfire we have had to put
out this week A.L.S.: After read-
ing that effort it is no wonder that you
approached us “with fear and tremb-
ling” M.H.: You are still not
hitting the target M.T.C.: It
reads like a stray from a boys’ maga-
zine G.R.M.: “It Was All Moon-
shine” was all moonshine J.0.C.:
Not wanting the story, but wouldn’t
mind subscribing for a medal for the
kookaburra 8.M.: It has an idea
deserving of more expert handling
R.S.: Have you ever stopped to con-
sider that you must amuse others
besides yourself? N.W.: Far too
melodramatic for us LJ.; It wasn’t
worth digging out of the old oak
chest... J.D.H.: Stick to present-
day themes G.G.; Not in the
market for translations G.F.S.:
Send it to a local temperance journal.
L.B.W.: Not paying out for
those “Crime Does Not Pay” stories.
.... R.N.D.: It merely caused an
epidemic of yawning around the
office A.L.F.: Material published
elsewhere is not wanted by The
Bulletin W.F.J.: You have a
long, long way to go yet G.A.P.:
Tossed it back to the sea E.L.H.:
Among the feeblest of the week’s
tear-jerkers J.W.: Select one inci-
dent and build it up to a worth-while
story E.C.: Couldn’t quite get the
hang of it P.R.N.E.: Belongs
more to the realms of anthropology
than to the world of fiction C.D.:
Well, thank heavens! Another family
feud has been settled T.M.H.:
You' had all the ingredients, but
something went wrong in the mixing
and cooking.


A new Scientific ADVANCE
ICI
A new formulation of extremely fine particles
WITH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS TO THE 4th ANNUAL REPORT OF C.5.1.R.0.
INCORPORATED IN
LIQUID “PHENOVIS”
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
16. Internal Parasites.
(a) Studies on Anthelmintics. —(i) Phenothiazine.
—lt was mentioned last year that very finely ground
phenothiazine appeared to be more effective than com-
mercial grades of the drug. Trials carried out during
the year have shown clearly that large particle size
greatly detracts from efficiency. A sample in which
98 per cent, of the particles ranged * from 46 to 76
microns in diameter was of such low efficiency that a
dose of 20 g. left large residual infections with
Haemonchus contortus, whereas 10 g.‘ is usually highly -*
effective against this parasite; a finely ground sample,
in which 99 per cent of the particles were 10 microns
or less in diameter was highly efficient, not only against
11. contortus but also against less susceptible worm
parasites such as Trichostrongylus spp. (black-scour
worms) and Oesophagostomum columhianum (nodule
worms). It
comme
Release of Liqui3
‘Phenovis’ has been
delayed pending the
results of exhaustive
tests see extract.
These ' latest scientific
developments have
been incorporated in
the new Liquid ‘Pheno-
vis’—the most efficient
worm drench for re-
moving internal para-
sites in sheep.
LIQUID
.. - . -;• ■ x ■■ i; . ~ y.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
3 HE. 21X.3474
Peaseblossom Hot
by ERIC IRVIN
MRS. EVANS, standing at
the picket-gate, her
hands crossed on the
top of the broom-
handle, spared a minute from
her inward life to look at the
here and now. Everything was
exactly in its proper place, as she
knew it would be. The whole
street of weatherboard houses
looked the same, exactly the
same, as they had first thing this
morning and as they would
tomorrow morning.
She turned and looked at her
own house —looked through its
open front-door, down its
central, linoleumed hall and
through its open back-door.
Just the same, even to the figure
of her husband to be seen at
the end of the yard.
He was chopping wood; a
large man swinging a small axe.
Now she could see the flash of
his balding head, now the dark
full-moon of his serge-clad
posterior as he bent to the swing
of the axe.
This was Mr. and Mrs. Allan
Evans. This was Monday to
Sunday, spring to winter, break-
fast and housework to supper
and darning socks.
She turned down the short
path to the front-door, with an
expert twist of her broom
nullified the patient industry of
a spider, and walked into the
house. It would soon be time.
About to close the front-door,
she paused as the noise of a
motor-bike turning the corner at
the bottom of the street broke the
silence. She looked out, and
saw the machine speeding in the
direction of her house. Sure
enough it was pulled up with a
noisy clanking and roaring right
outside her front-gate,
“Good day, missus,” called
out the man who was riding it.
“Can you tell me where Allan
Evans lives?”
“He lives here,” Mrs, Evans
replied ungraciously.
She was not only surprised,
she was afraid. This man was
the unforeseen, he was the dis-
turber, the demander. She would
be forced to pretend, to smile, to
entertain, to listen. He was a
visitor, and as such not tp be
desired.
“He does?” called the man.
“Is he in?”
With him astride it the motor-
bike looked quite small, quite
ordinary. But when he got off
and walked to the gate Mrs.
Evans saw with fresh surprise
that not only was he enormous
but so, suddenly, was the motor-
bike. It was longer and broader
than any motor-bike she had
ever seen, and had a huge, deep
saddle-bag on either side of the
rear wheel.
“Are you Mrs. Evans?” the
man asked, leaning on the gate
with both arms.
“Yes.”
“I’m David Thomas. Could
I see Allan, do you think?”
“You won’t be selling him
anything?” Mrs. Evans suggested
dubiously.
“Suffering cats, no!” the man
roared delightedly. “I’m an old
mate of his. We were in the
Army together.”
With his words everything fell
into place again for Mrs. Evans,
and she sniffed.
“One of them!” she said,
unable tG restrain herself. “I’ll
tell him you’re here.”
She walked to the back-door
and called her husband.
“Allan! Allan! There’s a
man here to see you.”
AND with that, her duty done,
she walked into the sitting-
room and shut the door.
It was time.
The radio gave out the
familiar, exciting hum that was
so- full of promise, followed by a
sound like the swash of a breaker
coming in, and riding it high
came the announcer’s voice:
“ . . . presented by Killen’s
Motor Garage. And, now it’s
time for our women’s session,
and here’s the president of the
Radio Women’s Club, eager w
tell you all how to bake a shoo-
fly pie and apple-plum dowdy.”
After the familiar mixed laugh
which followed this equally
familiar witticism, the president’s
voice alone was heard, greeting
one after the other members of
the club who had written to her:
“And now a call to Syllabub.
Thanks for your breezy letter,
Syllabub. Yes, life is too short
for misery. A good time while
you can is what I always say.
We must have happiness. My,
you must have worked hard at
those socks. v Hubby will be
pleased. And I mustn’t forget
Peg’s Choice. How are you,
Peg’s Choice ? Will we see you
at the card-party on Thursday ?
We will? — that’s nice. Now,
you will all come along, won’t
you, members !”
The ingratiating voice went on
in a coo which had an edge of
assumed heartiness:
“Now, let me see. My ! I’ve
got a lot of nice letters from you
all today. Ah! Here’s one I
always like to get. It’s from
Peaseblossom ...”
An intense excitement gripped
Mrs. Evans. A red spot in each
cheek, a hungry look in her eyes,
she listened avidly to every word
that followed.
Mrs. Evans was Peaseblossom,
It happened only once a week,
but on that day the whole listen-
ing world met Mrs. Evans, shared
her gossip about her garden and
her home, entered the house and
saw her washing, or ironing or
polishing.
“What are you doing now, I
wonder?” the president’s voice
wonderfully continued. “I
know, you are polishing the floor.
Or are you doing the ironing ? I
know what it is — you're baking
hubby some of those delicious
cheese scones you made for the
Red Cross stall ...”
Mrs. Evans was tloing none of
those things. She was standing
bright-eyed before the wireless-
set. And yet in a sense she was
doing all those things before an
admiring audience of Syllabubs,
Peg’s Choices, Acacias and
others. With envy they watched
as she ran an iron expertly over
the glistening white of a table-
cloth. Awed, they surveyed their
reflection in the polished mirror
of her floors. Despairingly* they
praised the flaky lightness of her
scones, and condemned the
failures which were their own.
Mrs. Evans bore it all with
quiet pride.
/"\UT in the kitchen the two
men drank from one of the
bottles which provided such an
excellent and logical reason for
the wide, deep saddle-bags on the
motor-bike.
“Like a beer, love?” Allan
greeted his wife as she came into
the kitchen.
David stood up, “You’ve been
feeding this bloke too well. He’s
put on about three stone, I’d
say, since I saw him last.”
“Here—draw it mild,” Allan
protested.
. “No, thank you,” Mrs, Evans
answered her husband. “You
know I never touch it.”
“This is David Thomas,
Stella,” Allan half-explained,
half-introduced his friend.
“We’ve already met. I hope
those bottles won’t make rings
on the table.”
“Here —I’ll put them on the
sink.”
“You’ll be staying to dinner,
Mr. er?”
“Well, if you insist,” David
replied graciously. “I was just
saying to Allan here it’s a pity
the bike’s not a car —I could
have taken you both for a spin.”
Dinner, as far as Mrs. Evans
was concerned, was not
The man had a voracious
appetite, was an incessant talker
and clumsy at table. He knocked
over a sauce-bottle on to the
clean tablecloth, but was not at
all abashed where others would
at least have been conscious of
their clumsiness.
“ ’Fraid you’ll have to put it
through the washing-machine—if
Allan runs to washing-
machines?”
“Here, don’t wake that up, for
Gawd’s sake,” Allan begged.
Mrs. Evans looked at their
guest with cold eyes.
“Are you married,
Mr. er?”
“Sure thing. What man isn’t,
these days? Funny thing, the
wife wanted me to get her a
washing-machine. Had her heart
set on it. But I said, why should
I? I’ve already got the best
washing-machine in the world,”
The two men found this
irresistibly funny.
Mrs, Evans broke through
their laughter, only to provoke
another paroxysm.
“What did she want two for?”
T'vAVID helped with the
Washing-up in the face of
Mrs. Evans’s disapproval, while
Allan lined-up on the veranda
the remainder of the bottles
David had brought.
“A good cook, your missus,”
David said as he settled back in
a chair on the veranda, a glass
mug of beer in his hand.
“She’s mad on it. She’s mad
on everything to do with the
house. Sometimes I wish”
The wish was left unvoiced, a
trembling mystery between them
until Allan banished it with a
further explanation.
“She belongs to that Radio
Women’s Club. Listens to it
every day. When we had the
flood here she acted although
the whole world was against her
because she couldn’t switch the
wireless on. No juice.”
David, feeling he was expected
to make some comment on this,
but not having anything particu-
larly apt to say, compromised
with: “She takes it serious, all
right.”
“Serious! Wouldn’t miss it for
quids. They all have names.
She’s Peaseblossom.”
Allan turned and looked at
David, his face perfectly serious
until he caught the gleam in his
friend’s eye. Slowly a smile
broadened on his face, which
grew to an unashamed grin as its
twin appeared on David’s face,
until soon both of them were
laughing wildly but silently.
“Peaseblossom!” David whis-
pered in a laughter-faint voice.
“And Tumbleweed, and Sun-
flower, and Strawberry and —
{Continued on page 31)


r> jT>>
* m
m
EAUTi
aa
First in Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU TAN UN DA
The Brandy of Distinction
A Product of The
House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
Who esale Spirit Merchants since 183$
SPORTING NOTIONS
Owner W. J. Smith and his
wife experienced mixed luck at
Canterbury on Saturday, when
the former’s smart two-year-old
filly Biff won at 25 to 1 and
Mrs. Smith’s two-year-old colt
Bespoken, well-fancied by the
stable, missed a place in his
division.
Biff had earlier won at Rose-
hill and at Randwick, but there
was no money for the daughter
of Beau Son. She not only led
all the way but ran record race-
time. It was her first outing for
about three months. Bespoken
at his prior run had finished a
sound second to Tsajadyne, and
he had been galloping bril-
liantly at Rosebery. On the
other hand, he wasn’t at all
favorably placed in the weights.
To date he has been a costly
colt, and, though he has been in
minor places, he has yet to show
winning form.
Though his name didn’t figure
in the betting for the Canter-
bury Two-year-old Handicap
won by Mazooka, New Zealand-
owned and -bred Telyar may
not be long in winning. Trained
at Randwick by Maurice Mc-
Carten, the colt was having only
his second race-start, and he
finished a close fourth, just be-
hind his stablemate, Trans Tas-
man, also New Zealand-owned.
At the home-turn eight of the 13
other starters were in front of
Telyar. Raced by M. J.
Moodabe and bred by S. J.
Waldron, of Ngatea, Telyar is
by Count Rendered (imp.), a
son of Precipitation, and from
Lady Vennachar by Beau Re-
paire from Vennachar by
Martian. Family-lines include
Scratchmere Scar, who came to
Australia from N.Z. many years
ago and won several sprint
events.
Moonee Valley punters on
Saturday backed the opening
winner, Estache, down to 2 to
1 on for the First Royal Park
Handicap. This Scorpion (imp.)
product is a promising type and
has done well at her few starts.
At one stage she was eight
lengths in front, and she carried
9st. She has now won three
times and was second at her
other outing. Her dam, Saya, is
a J. R. Smith (imp.) mare from
Modiste 11, an imported mare
and dam of half a dozen
winners, by Franklin. Saya was
a good winner in Western Aus-
tralia. Estache is from a half-
sister to Royal Chief, a New
Zealand Derby and St. Leger
winner, who came to Sydney in
1938 and won the A.J.C. Metro-
politan and weight-for-age
races.
Seven years back Don Pedro
put up a fine performance to win
the Moonee Valley Cup with
8.12, defeating Valcurl and
Good Idea. Valcurl had won
the two previous Valley Cups.
Don Pedro was also successful
in the 1947 Toorak Handicap
with 9st. and in the weight-for-
age Mackinnon Stakes. His two-
year-old daughter, Miss Pedro,
had an easy win at the Valley
on Saturday, in the Second Royal
Park Handicap, for which she
started at 6 to 1. Brian Hall, a
young apprentice, and a brother
of jumping jockey Ron Hall,
had the winning mount; he
handled Miss Pedro with skill.
Retirement of champion
stakes-winner Hydrogen, with
a record aggregate of £59,029
for Australia, draws atten-
tion to the possible early re-
tirement of Carioca. Hydro-
gen won 26 races and was eight
times second and a similar num-
ber of times third from 57
starts, so he did well for owner
E. R. Williams, who paid
3200gns. for him as a yearling.
Carioca is raced on lease by
Warwick Farm trainer P. Hoy-
sted until July 1. Whether the
horse will remain with Hoysted,
be returned to his Brisbane
owner, Jack Booshand, or be
retired to the stud has yet to be
determined. His wins this sea-
son included the A.J.C. Metro-
politan Handicap. There aren’t
likely to be opportunities for
him in handicap events, in
which, as has been the case in
the present season, he would be
given prohibitive weights. Bred
in 1947, Carioca is by Felt Yet
from Sing Again by Australian
Sun (imp.).
Sydney-trained two-year-old
Krishna, unbeaten in two starts
(Newcastle and Hawkesbury),
is a Jambo (imp.) colt from
Thetis by Manfred from Car-
dinalis by Pistol (imp.), and was
bred by J. R. C. Constable. The
youngster could develop into a
useful stayer with another year
on to his age. Krishna won a
First Hawkesbury Two-year-old
Novice. Coral’s Pride, winner of
the second division, is a half-
brother to a smart sprinter,
Channel Rip. By Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.), sire of dual Derby-
winner Prince Morvi, Coral’s
Pride is from Marinus by J. R.
Smith (imp.). A notable mare,
Gladsome, appears on the dam’s
side of the pedigree, as does
Hua, a high-class performer and
sire of many good winners.
Coral’s Pride cost 900 guineas as
a yearling.
Owners and trainers are not
likely to welcome the new Syd-
ney ruling in relation to the
Graduation Stakes. Horses now
listed as Encourage and Trial
gallopers will be catered for at
intervals instead of being placed
“It stuck to my fingers .”
on frequent programmes. This
will force many owners to try
to win with them in open com-
pany, but for the majority that
will prove difficult. New con-
ditions were announced last
week by the A.J.C. and the
S.T.C. restricting the class in
Graduation Stakes. Most of
these contests in future will be
open only to maidens, novices
and those eligible for classifica-
tion as transition horses. There
are few top-class horses in train-
ing, but hundreds of moderate
to fair-class gallopers, and it
may be found that the present
run of small fields at city fixtures
will not be improved upon by
the latest change. If the A.J.C.
and the S.T.C. followed the plan
adopted by the former Sydney
A.R.C. there would be; no need
for the constant changing and
chopping in Graduation Stakes’
conditions. Former “pony” clubs
raced restricted events in the fol-
lowing order: Maiden, Novice,
Encourage, Trial and Approved.
Most horses went through those
classes before starting in open
company. There were no am-
biguous clauses in the condi-
tions, an 4 the scheme gave all-
round satisfaction.
In the next couple of weeks
horses engaged at the Brisbane
winter meetings will be on trial
at Sydney fixtures, so punters
who intend taking doubles in the
Q.T.C. Stradbroke Handicap and
the Brisbane Cup would be well
advised to await stable decisions.
Some already in betting-lists pre-
pared by bookmakers are not
likely to keep their engagements.
Pipe On, who easily won the
Canterbury Campsie Stakes, may
be set for the £12,000 Brisbane
Cup. He has yet to prove he
is a stayer, as little notice could
be taken of his win in the moder-
ate Canterbury company. How-
ever, his sire, Kerry Piper (imp.),
won several English staying
events up to 2} miles, while his
dam, Passion, by Sion from Bar-
maid’s Blush by Magpie (imp.),
comes from a staying line.
Johnnie Jason (Sydney Cup and
V.R.C. Derby) and Royal Gem
figure in the pedigree.
• • • •
Bred by Leighton Park (Scone,
N.S.W.) studmaster -H. Hayes,
•Aquaplane, two-year-old winner
at Newcastle and later at Rand-
wick, was withdrawn from
the 1953 Randwick yearling
catalogue. The colt is from
a sister to Reading, now at
the stud in America. Aqua-
plane is by Channel Swell (imp.)
from Genesis by Marconigram
(imp.) from Gravure by High
Art (imp.) from Encre (a hall-,
sister to that grand stayer David)
by Kenilworth (imp.). Journal,
a Caulfield Cup winner, also
figures in the pedigree. Aqua-
plane is to contest winter racing
in Brisbane.
• . • •
Little - raced three - year - old
Ecaros, who opened his winning
account in a Newcastle First
Maiden mile, was bred in New <
Zealand and is by that amazing
sire Foxbridge (imp.) from
Tamahere (unraced) by Vaals
from Waimuri by Valkyrian
(imp.). When sold as a year-
ling at the Dominion auction in
January, 1952, the youngster
realised lOOOgns. He is a brother
to the well-performed Ellerslie,
winner of upwards of £19,000 in
stakes. Foxbridge headed New
Zealand’s sires’ list for 11 con-
secutive seasons, and his progeny
have won about £700,000 in
stakes. He was twice British
Empire champion sire. Ecaros
had been trained at Randwick
by T. J. Smith. He is now at
Rosebery under the care of
B. Beck.
Evidently no one round the
ringside wanted the chestnut colt
by Royal Blue (imp.) from
Elletra by Agincourt (imp.)
when he was paraded at the
1952 Randwick yearling sales,
because he was passed-in at 100
guineas. The colt was then
leased, and, now racing as Wind-
sor Blue, he won a Newcastle
First Improvers’ Handicap at 25
to 1. Trained at Rosebery by
K. W. Suttle, the three-year-old
was the only Royal Blue yearling
in the 1952 catalogue, and there
were only two listed at this year’s
Randwick sales. Royal Blue’s
oldest progeny are now three
years, and include Royal Wis-
dom, a stylish Randwick win-
ner. Royal Blue is a Blue Peter
stallion and a half-brother to
Big Game % Windsor Blue is
from the same family as Whit-
tier (dual Caulfield Cup win-
ner) and Accarak (Australian
Cup), and traces back to Car-
bine.
Luck had been against three-
year-old filly Glamour Moon,
who won her first race, the
Punchbowl Stakes, at Canter-
bury and earned a £419 stake.
Related to former smart
sprinters Warspite, Captivation
and Merry Merton, she could
develop into a brilliant per-
former. By Hunter’s Moon
(imp.) from Glamour by Mar-
conigram (imp.) from Halo by
Heroic from Gloaming’s Sister
by The Welkin (imp.), the
Canterbury winner is bred on
sound lines.
« ♦ ♦
North Sydney Oval was so
packed for the Fijians’ first game
(against South Harbor) that,
looking round, there was a fringe
of heads on the skyline—specta-
tors Sitting on the walls —and,
before the game, started, the
gates were locked. Then, at the
request of the police, children
under fourteen were allowed on
the ground. They spilled over
the fence before the announcer
had finished speaking, and sat on
the grass, leaving little room for
the crushed adults, and only
mobbing the Fijians when the
game was over —Fiji’s way by
24-11. But all this gaiety and
enthusiasm was strange for
Rugby Union.
The Fijians began as though it
wasn’t Rugby at all, but some
strange, good-humored game that
didn’t require much concentra-
tion. They threw the ball around
in a haphazard way, which still
baffled their orthodox oppon-
ents, and then one of them —the
winger Orisi Dawai—went for a
run and his speed brought the
crowd to their feet.
After that the game warmed-
up; Jo Levula galloped half-
pace to score from a pass looped
4 half across the field. But he had
a bad ankle —he had to go off
later —and wasn’t seen at his
best. A few light-hearted in-
juries—and once Jo, from sheer
exuberance, kicked a rolling ball
right out of the field. South
Harbor played well and stout-
heartedly, But the crowd be-
came impatient with them
because they kept winning the
scrums and lineouts. Not that
the Fijians worried. Lose the
ball here, pick it up somewhere
else. Ratu George Cakobau
says they’ll do better next time.
Present onlooker was sitting
next to Trevor Allan, former
Wallaby captain and the best
Australian centre he has seen.
Allan, who has been playing
League in England, naturally
hadn’t seen the Fijians. It was
interesting to watch his reac-
tions, He seemed a bit surprised
at first, and then, as the game
progressed, kept bobbing in his
seat and giving Jittle exclama-
tions of delight. Of the Aus-
tralians, only Stapleton was out-
standing, making a couple of
fine runs. But it wasn’t any fault
of the South Harbor players —
the Fijians are as unorthodox as
a team from Mars.
♦ * 4
There was only one “upset” in
the fourth round of the V.F.L.
South Melbourne, battered into
the ground the previous week
by Footscray, was back on its
feet to beat Richmond (12.9-
10.16), though the Tigers have
had a win over ’Scray. Colling-
wood, though weakened by in-
juries, beat Essendon (10.17-
9.10); Geelong (13.17) was never
in doubt against St. Kilda (8.5);
and North just got there against
Hawthorn (11.10-10.13). Fitzroy
and Carlton, neither of which
has yet won a game, both went
down again—Fitzroy to Mel-
bourne (14.12-7.12) and Carlton,
in the evenest high-scoring game
this year, to Footscray (20.14-
17.21).
“Goalsneak”: “J.H.” (B.
5/5/’54) got his players and
teams a bit mixed. Ken Mc-
Gregor plays for West Adelaide,
not North ; Haydn Bunton roves
for North. West, not North,
won by three points—by which
narrow margin, incidentally,
both West and North scraped
home in their second-round
games, against Glenelg and Nor-
wood respectively.
* * *
Englishman Roger Bannister,
first to break the “four-minute”
mile (3min. 59.45ec.), and Aus-
tralian John Landy, at present
in Finland, had jointly held the
previous second-best time
(4min 2sec.) just outside Gun-
dar Haegg’s previous world s
record (4min. I.4sec.), so there
probably still isn’t much between
the two. Incidentally, Haegg
only a few weeks back tipped
that the four-minute mile would
be run this year, “probably by
Roger Bannister.”
* * ♦
Russell Sands (8.131), young-
est of the fighting family, car-
ried too many guns for Ken
Wenman (8.13 i) in their fight
for the N.S.W. featherweight
championship at Leichhardt.
Customers gave Wenman a
fierce roasting for kidney-punch-
ing in rounds six and eight, but
he neglected to take the hint, and
in the twelfth round ref. Art
Mawson disqualified him, though
at that stage Sands was seyen-
and-a-half-miles ahead on points,
anyhow.


•Heitft the Ctmmib!
m
k v.\ne al
i
• /- ** ~~ i
> '*
£
Sg
m.
Miiitti
i
lip
i¥:¥»*
, - *
mu
■mg,
W&
m
s «
?Wm:-
: •**•.
®ps£*
Here it is, the Mobilco Self Drive, built along the lines of an aircraft undercarriage. Wind the wheel
down and it automatically drives; wind it up and it stops and tucks up neatly under the chassis leaving
you with a perfectly balanced free-wheeling machine for the actual jobs of felling, cross-cutting and
ripping. You can buy it fitted to a Mobilco "Model B" or "Bush King", or you can have it fitted to your
ripping
own Mobilco machine.
BUY IT ON A MOBILCO..
When you get a self-driven Mobile© your machine will go
anywhere ... it will never slip, bog or fail to take you over
any hill. If you find the going a bit tough just a light down-
ward pressure on the handles gets your Mobilco surging
forward. You simply can't stop it. Wherever you can walk
your Mobilco will drive,
IDEAL FOR THE MOBILCO FENCING
OUTFIT. ..
The Mobilco Fencing Outfit, consisting of circular saw, post
hole digger and post borer, becomes a "double earner" with
this new self drive. Look at the time you will save. Whether
it's sandy, boggy or hilly, there's no time lost with a Mobilco.
It goes anywhere and everywhere just as you want it.
If you own a Mobilco now and find that where you
are working it is a bit hard to push your machine
around, please fill in the coupon and let us send you
all the details about the new Mobilco Drive. If, on the
other hand, you don't already own a mobile saw and
are thinking of getting one, make sure that you find
out about the Mobilco with the only positive action,
variable traction drive. You must not take the risk of
not knowing ail about Mobilco, Australia's own shaft
driven machine with the stop-at-nothing Self Drive.
PATENT PENDING
* The Self Drive has the Mobilco six months guarantee, and
machines Fitted with if can be bought on a convenient time
payment plan.
FIT IT TO YOUR MOBILCO ...
The Mobilco Self Drive is supplied ready to fit to any Mobile©
"Model B" or "Bush King" Saw. Due to its light weight and
perfect balance you will not know it is there when felling
and cross-cutting, but once you wind it down and the wheel
is driving there's nothing to do but merely guide the machine
to the next job. *
a
I
m
yfi
i
S
iV
POST NOW FOR DETAILS
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUST.
piilllliilllllllllllllillililllllllllllllM
H | would like complete details of the
M Mobilco Self Drive to be posted at once.
H Name -
H Address


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE F.B.I. ON COMMUNISM
The following comments on
Communism in America are
condensed from an official re-
port by J. Edgar Hoover, direc-
tor of the U.S. Federal Bureau
of Investigation, whose job it is
to investigate the activities of
Communist and suchlike ele-
ments in the U.S.A.:
“In 1921 the Communist Party
of the United States affiliated
with the Communist Inter-
national and became subservient
to all of its decisions. That was
carried out openly until 1940,
when the Voorhis Act forced
the Communist party to with-
draw, at least ostensibly. Other-
wise the Communist party would
have been required to register as
an organisation subject to
foreign control.
“Practically, however, they
continued and are still under
the domination and control of
the Communist party of the
Soviet Union.
“Over a number of years there
was a lot of double-talk on the
part of the Communists that they
never advocated overthrow of
the Government by force and
violence; they insisting that
they were completely a political
party. This contention has been
disproved by the results of
various court cases and by hear-
ings held by Congressional com-
mittees.
“The potential danger of the
Communist party, U.S.A., and
its security threat to the nation
should not be judged merely by
the extent of its membership. It
has a strong fifth-column
strength. As open party-mem-
bership ebbs more and more,
reliance is placed upon (1)
underground leadership, (2) con-
cealed members, (3) front-
groups, (4) fellow-travellers, (5)
Communist sympathisers and
(6) dupes.
“The discipline of the party,
as in the past, has been rigidly
administered from the top by a
small group of Communist-party
functionaries who are fanatically
dfevoted to the Communist cause.
“The organisational apparatus
of the Communist party is
directed through functionaries
located in 30 districts throughout
the United States. At the pre-
sent time, only six of those 30
districts maintain an open dis-
trict-headquarters. The district
organisations are further subdi-
vided by State, county, city, sec-
tion and club.
“A club-unit is never in excess
of five members, for security
purposes, and, for the same rea-
son, the members of one club-
unit are not known to the mem-
bers of another.
“Today there are two types of
Commupist-party leadership—
open leadership and an under-
ground leadership which actually
has been assuming more and
more authority and control to
administer the entire party in
the event it is no longer feasible
to continue in the open.
“Through the perfection of
the underground apparatus, the
party aims to preserve intact a
hard core of militant Com-
munists to carry out the aims
and objectives of the inter-
national Communist movement
under all forms of adversity.
“The security measures which
the Communist party have taken
in order to thwart the efforts of
the F. 8.1. have been many and
detailed. No longer are Com-
munist-party membership-cards
issued; maintenance of mem-
bership-records are forbidden ;
contacts of rank-and-file mem-
bers are limited to from three to
five —the basic club-unit.
“Most of the local head-
quarters have been discontinued
and party-records have been
destroyed. No evening meetings
are permitted in headquarters
without staff members present.
Conventions and large meetings
are held to the absolute mini-
mum. The use of the telephone
and telegraph is avoided.
“No contact is had with
families or friends ; contacts be-
tween functionaries are arranged
through frequently - changed
intermediaries; false drivers’-
licences have been obtained;
assumed names have been
adopted ; modification of physi-
cal appearance has been effected,
such as dyeing hair and
eyebrows, as was done by a
member of the national commit-
tee who was apprehended by
the F. 8.1. in a hideout in the
high Sierras in California last
August.
“They have removed con-
spicuous means of personal
identification, sdch as moles;
they have affected a new man-
ner of walking, have changed
their dress - standards, have
avoided old habits and even
have avoided old vices, and have
N.Y. “Herald Tribune"
THE NEW RUSSIAN STEAMROLLER?
avoided appearance in public
places where their recognition
would be probable.
“They communicate through
couriers and avoid the use of
written communications. They
have instituted loyalty tests for
all prospective underground per-
sonnel. They rotate the under-
ground personnel to avoid detec-
tion. The underground staff is
usually recruited from trusted
Communist-party members with
at least 10 or 12 years’ experi-
ence.
“They appear outside of hide-
outs only at night. They use
different automobiles and the
cars frequently are registered in
fictitious names and not names
Of party members ; the licence-
plates are frequently changed.
“They have used extreme pre-
cautions in regard to surveil-
lance, making rapid and fre-
quent changes of conveyances,
entering and leaving subways
and buses just before the doors
close, and doubling back on their
course.
“These various security mea-
sures show the stealth of the
American Communists and also
the increased difficulty faced by
the F. 8.1. in trying to handle
investigations. Where one F. 8.1.
agent was formerly needed for
proper coverage, we now require
as many as nine or 10 because
of the Communists’ greater
security-consciousness in carry-
ing out their conspirational
activities.
“One of the principal mediums
for the attainment of the goal
of the Communist party is
through Communist-front or-
ganisations. They serve as the
media for the Communist party,
in a disguised manner, to exploit
the masses to further its revo-
lutionary aims and purposes.
The fronts are being utilised in
an ever-increasing degree for
this particular purpose. Many
of the fronts have proven to be
the chief sources of recruitment
for the Communist party; they
are excellent sources of revenue
fpr raising funds for the party.
“All spheres of activity are
exploited by the party in its
front-organisations, such as
youth groups, veterans’ groups,-
civil-rights groups, nationality
and racial-minority groups,
Press, radio, television, motion-
picture industry, the cultural
groups, political groups, peace
organisations and foreign-born
groups.
“In regard to the infiltration
of labor, the Communists regard
labor-unions as instruments to
be controlled and used to de-
velop the Communist revolu-
tion.
“A national conference held
in August, 1953, of the Com-
munist party reaffirmed the time-
honored premise that control of
the labor-union is of primary
importance to the development
of the Communist revolution in
America.
“They designated, particu-
larly, the automobile* industry as
being the prime target, because
it is one of the most vital indus-
tries to our national-defence
production.
“In New York the party has
set a goal of 65 per cent, of its
membership to become em-
ployed in the basic industries of
the country.
“Instructions were issued for
the reorganisation of the Com-
munist party in Los Angeles re-
cently to organise on an indus-
trial basis, and party members
were requested to secure work
in the basic industries in .that
area, thus showing the trend of
placing as many members as
they can in the key industries of
the country —the basic industries
which if disrupted would
materially affect our national
defence.”
Nato's Five Years
Extending editorial congratu-
lations to Nato on its fifth birth-
day, New‘York “Herald Tri-
bune” remarks that in the five
years “an immense undertaking
has been set on foot, has been
given definite form and has won
for itself an acknowledged place
in the defence plans of the
West.” It adds:
“It was dramatic that the first
Commander-in-Chief of the
Nato forces, Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, should be able, as Presi-
dent of the United States, to
hail it on its anniversary as ‘a
unique working partnership
among Atlantic peoples.’
“The forces mustered under
Nato have never been as large
as some hoped to see ; they could
at no moment have withstood by
themselves a full-scale Russian
onslaught. But they have been
o£ sufficient strength to make it
clear that an easy breakthrough
by the Soviets, a quick march
to the Atlantic, is out of the
question.
“Besides these military ad-
vantages, Nato has provided
experience, unprecedented in
peace-time, of co-operation be-
tween great nations. Soldiers
and commanders speaking differ-
ent languages and representing
different traditions have learned
to work together in defence of
the big things they all held dear.
“From every point of view
Nato has served well in its first
five years. And the need for its
strength continues.”
“Slowly but steadily,” said a
“New York Times” corres-
pondent, “Nato is training in a
conventional manner, equipping
with conventional weapons and
co-ordinating the conventional
military forces of 14 nations.
Some of them are short of any
kind of armament, most of them
have no nuclear weapons at all.
Out of date as these nations are,
however, in the hydrogen age
that has burst on Europe, the
leaders of the West recognise
that Nato has been and is a
powerful deterrent force against
aggression.”.
As for Nato’s strength,
General Gruenther, Supreme
Commander of the Allied forces
in Europe, said in an interview
with Lieutenant-General Sir
Brian Horrocks for London
“Sunday Times”:
“In early 1951 General Eisen-
hower asked his staff what the
Russians required to enable
them to reach the Channel. The
answer was ‘Only boots,’ because
at that time there was practi-
cally nothing with which to op-
pose them. On the vital Central
European front there were only
120 aircraft and 15 airfields,
while on the ground there was a
total of 15 scratch formations
called divisions.
“Today our strength to resist
is three to four times greater
than it was then. Instead of 15
airfields we now have 120 in the
central area and our Air Force
is composed of good modern
aircraft. We have also created
an effective command organisa-
tion, have a good plan and have
started to build 4000 miles of
pipeline to supply jet fuel to the
airfields. There would be no
pushover in Europe now.”
Horrocks adds, however, that
Gruenther feels that the Allied
forces, though strong enough to
prevent a sudden attack, are still
not strong enough to, resist “a
large-scale, carefully-prepared
invasion.” There are two main
reasons:
“First: Training- and mobi-
lisation-arrangements for the re-
serve formations which must go
to the assistance of the active
shield as soon as possible after
war is declared are far from
satisfactory.
“Second: We [the West] can-
not afford to maintain sufficiently
large forces in peace-time with-
out undermining our economy,
and the only answer is to in-
clude German divisions in Wes-
tern defence.
“Whether we approve of Ger-
man rearmament or not is now
beside the point, for it is no
longer a question of when Ger-
many will rearm—it is merely
a question of how —and the
European Defence Community
does, after all, provide the best
possible safeguard.”
Russia and Nato
British and American rejec-
tion of the first Russian offer to
join the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation was not without its
critics. Thus, a Toronto “Globe
and Mail” editorial comment
on the sharpness of the U.S.
rejection:
“There are two objections to
this kind of response. Since it
obviously skips consultation, it
conveys the impression round
the world that the United States
is undisputed boss of the Western
alliance and expects the Allies
to be yes-men.
“It further suggests, to people
in Europe’ if not on this con-
tinent, that the Russians have
gained the initiative as the
peace-seeking Power. Collec-
tively the Western nations should
consult together on joint policy,
take Russian proposals seriously
and put forward their own ex-
plicit proposals for peace.”
In the main, however, British
and American papers looked
the gift-horse very closely in the
mouth, and sent it home. Typi-
cal comment:
“New York Times” editorial:
“The first aim of the proposal is
obviously to deliver the coup de
grace to the European Defence
Community. This is one more
attempt to undermine the sag-
ging support of the French for
that plan by demonstrating that
in a Europe guaranteed by the
Soviet Union, in a system to
which even the United States is
admitted, there will be no need
to worry about German divi-
sions, or indeed about German
armament in any form.
“Besides destroying E.D.C.,
however, the Russians are seek-
ing to put an end to Nato. The
offer to join Nato- may seem
ludicrous in view-of their inces-
sant denunciation of that or-
ganisation, but in reality, as their
record in the United Nations
Security Council demonstrates,
there could be no better way to
paralyse that organisation, to
veto German participation in it
if E.D.C. falls through, and at
the same time to get rid of the
main obstacle to the design so
frankly outlined by Mr. Molotov
at the Berlin conference —to
dominate the European Con-
tinent,”
“New York Times ” corres-
pondent: “The Power that pro-
claimed itself willing to become
a member of the Atlantic defence
system could with a word de-
mobilise a small fraction of the
Red Armies that shadow the
political landscape of Europe like
a stationary thunderhead.
“The Government that re-
versed its Berlin attitude about
American participation in a
European security pact could
much more easily rescind its Ber-
lin veto on an Austrian treaty.
“Finally, it needs only a
couple of ‘yeses’ from the Soviet
representatives to arrest the
paralysis of the one organisation
whose business is to relieve world
tensions. By a gesture the
U.S.S.R. could restore to the
United Nations Security Council
the function for which it was
created.”
“Man Chester Guardian”:
“What quicker way could there
be of wrecking the North
Atlantic Treaty? Russian repre-
sentatives on the North Atlantic
Council could prevent it from
ever doing anything, just as they
prevented the Military Commit-
tee of the United Nations from
ever functioning effectively and
just as they would have pre-
vented the Security Council
from going to South Korea’s
rescue if they had not been
absent at the time.”
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“All the peace-preserving aims
which Russia professes could be
achieved within the United
Nations —if she would but use,
instead of stultifying, its coun-
cils.”
New York “Herald Tribune ” :
“By barring the European De-
fence Community—a primary
aim of Russian policy —and
opening the plans of Nato to


THE TRUTH ABOUT
"McCARTHYISM"
Dr. Daniel A. Poling, world presi-
dent of the Christian Endeavour
Union, has summarised American
patriots’ view of Senator Joseph
McCarthy as follows:
“Senator McCarthy is a symbol.
He is a symbol of dynamic defence.
More, he is America’s symbol of de-
fence that must become an offensive
all along the line.”
The current issue of the League of
Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
DIGEST contains an exposure of
the Communist-inspired world-wide
smear campaign being conducted
against Senator McCarthy. This ex
posure should be studied by all
those Australians who desire to
understand how the Communist con-
spiracy operates to destroy those
who attack it effectively.
Every issue of THE INTELLI-
GENCE DIGEST contains factual
material for the benefit of Austra-
lian patriots. By private subscrip-
tion only. £2/2/- per annum.
Single issues 4/- each.
The Victorian League of Bights,
343 Lt. Collins Street, Melbourne.
V
- *
44
%
F
U
'^XT
6*
h
&T>3l<\c< /
“Dad built the original gate and I’ve gradually improved on it”
By courtesy of "Bulletin” ( 17.2.54)
Here’s an open-and-shut case - for a famous “Cyclone”
Field Gate if ever there was one! It’s this way. * Cyclone
have been making Field Gates for over fifty years. This
wealth of experience plus the stiff requirements of the
well-known “Red Tag Quality” ensure that “Cyclone
Field Gates are the best that hard-earned money can buy.
clone
RED TAG QUALITY
FIELD GATES
See your local "Cyclone” distributor today, or contact
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Townsville
FGIOB/27/8*
MAKERS OF TJ« FAMOUS "CYCLONE" GATES
mm
ms-
m
“ASK ME ANOTHER”
Jack Davey’s favorite show, he says. It’s the perfect vehicle for
his lightning-fast wit, pitted against the quick-witted pane
Elizabeth Riddell, Keith Smith, Carolyn Berntsen and Jim Russell.
The famous animal, vegetable and mineral game s brighter tna
ever —every Tuesday night at 8 p.m.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQUARIE
cASTINGS E R V I c E
Red Army view, the Soviet
Union would have gone far to
make the freedom of Europe de-
pendent on the goodwill of the
Kremlin.
“The United States could
then be invited to participate in
the resulting system of collec-
tive insecurity.
“Thus the Russians are merely
tricking out in new trappings the
old policy of keeping Europe
weak and divided. But for
popular consumption, the latest
Note from Moscow is shrewdly
worded; it plays on the almost
universal fear of the H-bomb as
well as upon the particular fears
of the French over the rebirth
of an armed Germany.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Russia hopes to deter France
from approving the E.D.C.
Treaty by suggesting to her
that there is an alternative in a
general treaty to which Russia
but not Germany would be a
party.”
London “Daily Express
“Russia’s latest diplomatic
manoeuvre, like the previous one
—and the one before that —
springs from a genuine fear:
Russia is desperately afraid of
German rearmament.
“This agitates the Russian
mind to a degree far exceeding
anything they experience over
the H-bomb. The danger they
have once escaped is more dread-
ful to them than the one they
have never known.”
London “Observer ”:
“Russia’s offer should be cpun-
tered by suggesting alternative
ideas of .a European security
pact, based on mutual recogni-
tion of our two systems of alli-
ances, We should offer to open
discussions on such a pact as
soon as ratification of E.D.C.,
or of some other instrument for
joining West German strength to
that of the Western Powers, has
been completed.”
“ Wall Street Journal” : “Sup-
pose for a moment that the
Soviets really were alarmed
about the possibility of hydro-
gen warfare and therefore had
decided it was time to come to
terms with the West. Well, the
way to do that is not by joining
Nato. That organisation is an
effect, not a cause. It is an
effect of the Soviets’ own actions
—of their absorption of the
nations of East Europe, of their
dividing Germany and Europe
and massing huge military forces
on their side of the dividing-line.
If they should ever wish to re-
move or mitigate the ‘threat’ of
Nato, therefore, the Soviets must
remove the causes of Nato,”
London “News Chronicle ”;
“The Russians would enter the
North Atlantic Treaty Organisa-
tion and create their ‘all-Euro-
pean Treaty Concerning Collec-
tive Security’ with an overriding
aim in view. It is to divide
Europe into nationalist units
and groups, with which they
could make alliances or shift
alliances, so as to bring them
unit by unit and group by group
into the Soviet sphere.”
London “Economist” : “Can
it be imagined that the Soviet
Government would agree to all
the infringements of sovereignty
involved in membership of Nato
—the independent assessment of
each national economy in order
to share out the burden of de-
fence expenditure, the use of
bases by allied air forces, joint
manoeuvres, standardised wea-
pons and so forth?
“As General Gruenther has
remarked, he would presumably
find himself paying visits to
Moscow as supreme commander
over the Soviet Army. At this
point, if not before, the whole
idea becomes one which it is
almost impossible to take
seriously.”
British-Egypt Trade
Despite a recent order for
three Viscount airliners worth
£675,000, Britain’s export market
in Egypt is steadily contracting,
and latest Board of Trade figures
show a considerable drop from
1951 to 1953.
Exports of wool and worsted
yarns fell from £5,467,000 to
£1,161,000; machinery and
parts, from £6,250,000 to
£3,500,000; perfumes, toilet
preparations and plastic
materials from £2,500,000 to
£929,000 ; tractors from £700,000
to £130,000, and new cars from
£530,900 to £25,000.
“Egypt,” notes Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” “has been restricting
sterling imports because it con-
siders Britain is restricting its
imports of Egyptian cotton.
Britain spent £43,500,000 on
Egyptian cotton in 1951 and only
£9,000,000 in 1953.
“The main factor responsible,
however, for the decline in
British-Egyptian trade, in the
opinion of# British businessmen
in Cairo, is the dispute over the
Canal Zone which poisons rela-
tions. Another factor is
German competition.”
Various Voices
Lord Montgomery: “I be-
lieve that in World War 111, if
it should ever come, the safest
place to be will be in the front-
line with the fighting soldiers,”
President of Britain’s Board
of Trade, Peter T homey croft:
“Here in this island we can
claim to have a Welfare State,
though in truth we can only
have such welfare as we earn
as a nation by our efforts. Out-
side we can expect no welfare
whatsoever. Outside we can
expect to fight for the markets
of the world. There is no shel-
ter from that competition. If
we are going to survive We
must sell what the world wants
at prices the world can afford to
pay.”
C. Blaker, M.C., chairman of
the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation : “Asia is
undoubtedly on the move. All
the way from Ceylon to Tokyo
there is an intense desire for
speedy economic progress, as is
shown by the development plans
which most Asian countries are
now attempting to put into effect.
Coupled with this there is a
widespread realisation that the
raising of low standards of living
must come as part and parcel of
agricultural and industrial
development.”
Sir Winston Churchill on
punctuation {quoted from a
letter): “On the whole I am
against commas. They should
only come in where it is
absolutely necessary to make
B.F.s understand. On the other
hand I am very much in favor of
the semi-colon, and think that
blighter should have a good run
for his money in the text.”
Arthur Bryant (quoted from
an article in London “Sunday
Times”): “After her ‘finest hour
an exhausted Britain laid down
her ancient sea-trident. There
are few points of similarity be-
tween Charles II and Mr. Attlee,
but both tried to dispense with a
battle-fleet —the one, according
to his enemies, to pay for his
mistresses, the other to provide
us with free dentures,”


The Prime Minister
■
- vs *.
Australia’s Leader
In the affairs of all nations the hour produces the man. A growing
Australia, taking her place in world affairs, found in Robert
Gordon Menzies the courage, the resolution and the judgment
imperative in the management of great events.
The whole free world has acknow-
ledged his great capacities.
Here, he »has made his way
through the rough-and-tumble of
politics to an unchallenged position
of leadership.
The Menzies Government has
worked for stability and prosperity
and has seen the attainment of
both.
Rationing, blackmarkets and
strikes are things of the past. The
Government’s secret ballot legisla-
tion is cleansing the unions of
communists.
Recently (on 24/4/54), the
President of the Australasian
Council of Trade Unions, Mr.
Albert Monk said: “ Conditions for
workers in Australia are better
than those in any overseas
country”
That’s a solid tribute to gopd
government.
KEEP MENZIES GOVERNING
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, 30 Ash
Sydney.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager. ...
lobster feeling its way in a muddy
pool and got a long tentacle out
and it touches something and the
lobster has to wait for the lead.
So the tentacle touches ‘this
Lester Ross and
“What do you think of her?”
he says.
“Who?”
“The coppertop. Carson’s
secretary. Do you reckon
she”
I give a snort.
“I got no time for redheads.
Igo for dark types. I wouldn’t
know a thing about her.
Wouldn’t want to! ”
He gives that laugh again.
“All right,” he says. “If
you’re ready well go up and see
the boss. She’s anxious to talk
to you.”
“She’s no more anxious than
me. Only Carson getting killed
left it a bit mixed. And then
Jardine and that bloody
McLardie running me in. I ain’t
had time to sort things out. So
you’ll have to tell me where to
go, mate.”
“It’s straight ahead over the
railway,” he says, “and through
the big gates on the left. You
must have seen it this afternoon,
when you drove up that way.
Bellerive?”
“That’s right. I seen it. You
see me drive up there?”
“Somebody did,” he gives that
laugh again. Kind of a dry
giggle a man gives when his soul
isn’t his own.
I let that go. Suddenly I
remember Lorraine. I got a date
with her at 2 a.m. when she leaves
the switchboard. I put on the
dashlight and look at my* wrist-
watch. Nine-twenty. It was
about seven-thirty when I ran
into what I run into outside Sam
Paddo’s pub. So I got a date
with Lorraine at 2 a.m. I think,
about it and about her and it
don’t even excite me. Because
of what hit me under the veranda
and because of this Lester Ross it
don’t excite me. But you make
dates with the Lorraines of this
world you keep ’em or you find
a damn’ good excuse.
“I got to make a phone-call,”
I says. “To Mellish. -That
solicitor in Murrayford. I got to
report my whereabouts to him
once a day or the bail blows up,
see! ”
“All right,” he says. “There’s
a phone just inside the post-
office veranda. Make it snappy,
Delaney. Aunt Fredericka’s been
waiting nearly an hour now.”
Aunt Fredericka!
I get out and make for the
post-office.
Aunt Fredericka!
1L Fredericka
'T'HE phone-booth is there. It’s
-*■ one of those phones where
you lift the receiver and wait.
There’s a slot-box for coins
alongside it. I lift the receiver.
“Number, please?”
“Candy.”
“Ooh! Is that you, Del?
Where are you? We’re not
supposed to”
“Listen, kid. I want a number
in Murrayford. Mellish is the
bird’s name.. Solicitor. No
good calling the office now. He’ll
have a private number. Mister
Percy Mellish. There’s no light
in the booth here. Hunt it up
for me, will you, Lorrie?”
“Just a minute.”
I wait. I got to tip Mellish
off. I got to talk to Lorraine
about our date. My mind flashes
while I’m waiting. Mellish —
Joyce Martin —Lester Ross —
Aunt Fredericka —“Tell her,
too,” Sam Paddo says So
maybe I’ll tell her. After I tip
Mellish and
Hey! You watch it, Delaney.
This Lorraine can hear all you
tell Mellish. What do you know
about her? What do you know
about anybody in this dump?
Just you watch it, Delaney.
“Here it is. Murrayford, six
five two. Hapg on, Del, till I
get through. There, it’s ringing
now. How are you? Did you
get”-
“I’m good. Candy. Real
good.”
“I never met a boy so late
before. Isn’t it awful!”
Like hell, she never.
“Well, kid, I never met a girl
like you before, late or early.
That’s why I can hardly wait.
I”
“You just Oh, here’s your
party. Hallo, hallo, six five
two, Murrayford? Hold the line,
please. Go ahead now.”
“Hallo, Mr. Mellish?”
“Yes. Who is this?”
“Delaney.”
“You! Where are you?
What”
“Place called Willets. Staying
here the night. Just called to
tell you, Mr. Mellish, on account
of the bail.”
“Yes?”
It’s a question and it means he
knows I’m not just calling on
account of the bail.
“Well, that’s all, Mr. Mellish.
Just reporting, like you told me.
Quiet out here. Quiet and
peaceful. But I’m looking
forward to some good entertain-
ment shortly” that’s for
Lorraine, in case she’s listening.
She’s listening, all right. Because
there’s just a whisper of a giggle
—“I got to go now.”
“Oh. Well, thanks for report-
ing, Delaney. Is that a very well
lit place?”
I’m right up with him. I got
to hand it to him. He’s quick
about the giggle and good on the
double-talk.
“Well,” I tell him, “it’s better
lit than you’d think when you
first seen it. Good-bye, Mr.
Mellish. Anything happens you
know where to send a wreath.” ,
“Good-bye, Delaney. I’m very
pleased to hear from you.”
“That’s all right, it’s a
pleasure.”
I’ll say it’s a pleasure. Because
if he’s as quick as I reckon he
is he knows where I am and that
there’s some light on the scene
and I’m taking a risk and I don’t
show he’ll know where to look.
There’s a click and rattle and
then Lorraine comes through
again.
■ “Gee, do you have to report
like that every day?”
“That’s right, kid.”
“Gee, I never been out with
anybody in trouble like you.”
“You scared?”
“No. It’s a real thrill. Any-
how, I know you’re nice.”
“I’ll prove it, later. Two
o’clock I’ll prove it.”
“Could it be half-past, love?
So I can have a bath and be nice
and fresh. It’s so sticky in here
and”
“Sure. Sure. Half-past. Make
yourself sweet because maybe
you’ll be wearing moonlight.”
“Silly. There’s no moon.”
“O.K. Make it starlight.
You’d slay me in starlight. I
got to go, kid.”
“Go? Where? Is there such
a hurry?”
“I’m dirty, too. I need a bath.
I’ve had a big day. Been up since
six o’clock this morning. I’ll
snatch a couple of hours’ sleep
and”
“You mean thing. You’ll be
sleeping while I’m working
and”
“I’ll rock you to sleep, kiddo.
’Bye now.”
I hang up. X got this Lester
Ross waiting for me and a date
with his Aunt Fredericka and I
can’t talk to Lorraine all night.
There’s something else I got to
do. Something I got to donow.
So I go back to the car and
do it. Because I’ve summed-up
this Lester Ross. He looks to
me like a small-town boy that’s
good with his own crowd at his
back, but no good on his own.
Because on his own he’s got
about as much guts as a wrist-
watch. ,
So I go back and do it. I
reach into the car and grab him
by the neck of his shirt arid drag
him out and ram him up against
the car. Hard.
“Squeal,” I tell him, “and
you’lTbe a week in hospital. You
know who jumped me tonight.
Who was it?” I pull him forward
a little and then shove him back
again. Hard.
{To be continued next week)
typically Australian concep-
tion consisting of a 25-pounder
on a General Grant tank chassis,
with a commander, driver and
four gun-mehibers clinging to
it, protected only by enough
armor to stave off small-arms
fire and shell-splinters, and all
cursing the human squid who
took the turret off to save weight.
It is a travelling fighting wild-
cat island, the Yeramba, carry-
ing its own ammunition, com-
munications and' personal arms
for the crew —a fine example of
the kind of equipped combat-
cell which the modern Army
needs to design to provide fire-
support for the new fast cruiser-
tanks of contemporary warfare,
with which the conventional
towed 25-pounders can no longer
keep up.
Combined with the demands
for regularly-trained manpower
made by these novelties there is
a pyramiding rise in pay due to
inflation and —latterly— to the
increased numbers of National
Service Trainees joining the
C.M.F. No longer is the Army
—or any service—a starveling
affair. The comparative per
capita rates based on all serving
members of the Regular Army
have risen from £395 per annum
in 1948 to £735 at January 31
this year—somewhat of a poul-
tice in view of the demand'
which cannot be neglected, for
more and more new weapons.
In 1949 only £18,142,000 was
voted by Parliament for the
Army and only £ 16,000,000-odd
spent. Last year the outlay was
£91,500,000, though this year a
progressive diminution has be-
gun, despite the fact that there
still remains much to be done
in providing depots and other
permanent facilities, the building
of which has eaten up money
like water in recent years.
The vote this year is only
£73,742,000, but that is about
fourteen times as great as the
vote which nearly gave Mr. E. J.
Ward congenital apoplexy about
the year 1936, when a Defence
estimate of £5,713,920 seemed to
him “an enormous sum” and the
“fruit of panic” at a moment
when he believed that “the
workers of Japan, Germany and
other overseas countries are
fighting for the identical things
Australian workers desire,” so
that he was “not prepared to
take up arms against the workers
of Germany or any other nation-
ality.”
The breakdown of part of the
current huge but completely
essential outlay makes interest-
ing reading. Pay heads the list.
It has risen from .£7,000,000 in
1949-50, when C.M.F. pay was
only £324,000 (exhibiting
national defence in all its shame-
ful nakedness in the last year of
Labor rule), to £24,500,000 last
year, of which £3,000,000 goes
to N.S. trainees.
Arms Equipment comes nekt.
The outlay of £1,643,000 in
1949-50 became £16,779,000 last
year. The military clothing bill
of four years ago was £252,000 ;
last year it was £9,404,000. The
works, buildings and amenities
vote reached its peak in 1951-2
at £9,403,000, but in 1952-3 it
was under £7,000,000. And here
should come further relief this
year, as there should come also
in the votes for Korean expendi-
tures.
The figures on their face seem
startling; but they are not so
remarkable for an Army of
100,000, Regular artd Citizen,
with a brigade group on a war
footing, and they are even less
so when they are considered on
a per capita basis.
For the military side of its
insurance against invasion Aus-
tralians in the current year are
asked to spend about £8 per
head. It is about the cheapest
premium in the world, having
regard to the imminence of the
risks and the largeness of the
stake.
EARTH SONG IN
AUTUMN
Now the flower is falling down,
the tower-in-leaf an iron spike,
and I a house for the cold seed.
Under the frost fire shall strike
one day, one certain time, to raise
from the dark room a lifting
light—
the single bud and panicle
I held unlit against the night.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


Automatic cooking
WITH TRUE THERMOSTAT CONTROL
SHOWER
■
n
CaJunJxJiajiJ
WASHING
r
BATHING
~.Q\of •
SIS^L
COOKING
WASHING UP
i
n
/
t
IMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
MATE IN SOLID FUEL COOKING • '
>
Insulated
Cooker
and
Water Heater
Canmuhasl ”4W
I
■k BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL.
* EXTRA LARGE ROASTING OVEN AND SLOW COOKING OVEN -
both vitreous enamelled inside and out.
* EXTRA LARGE HOTPLATE WITH ROOM FOR SIX fi-INCH
SAUCEPANS.
* HOTPLATE COVER KEEPS HEAT IN THE HOTPLATE.
* CONSTANT HOT WATER for kitchen, bathroom and laundry.
* ACID-RESISTING TITANIUM ENAMEL FINISH —easy to clean,
adds beauty to the kitchen.
Carmichael 400 ... so simple to use, so economical,
to convenient.
TWO extra large heat sealed fully enamelled ovens
with non-tip shelves.
TWO super size hotplates with perfectly flat
machined surfaces.
This magnificent stove gives you perfect AUTO-
MATIC cooking and is always ready for instant
use. The heavy casting within the range stores
all the heat and only a minimum of fuel is required
to maintain cooking temperatures. For economy,
efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Carmichael 520
is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Naturally it cooks perfectly . . . it’s a
*CahmidweL
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892
A unit of Email Limited
WRITE TODAY for free Illustrated literature to:
(Country Distributors) Buzacott (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
11 Market Street, Sydney
or
W. T. Carmichael Ltd., Rawson Street, Auburn
and lots of them,” Allan finished
weakly.
When they had recovered, and
refilled their mugs, Allan
enlarged still further on the same
subject.
“She gets wild with me ’cause
I laugh at them. Once she
wouldn’t speak to me for about
ten days because of something
I said, and I made up a little
verse about it;
“Peaseblossom hot,
Peaseblossom cold,
Peaseblossom in a flap
Nine days old.
“All good, clean fun —but she
didn’t get it.”
“Ar, they don’t know what
they’re missing. They was put
on earth to see that men don’t
die of happiness. When a man’s
on his own he’s quite happy with
whatever turns up, but once he's
married things is different,”
David explained with the air of
one used to plumbing the deepest
philosophic depths.
“Where’s your missus?”
“She’s taken the kids to
Sydney for a holiday. They’ve
all eamt it. So I thought I’d pop
up here and see you. Saw
Smacker Robb a few weeks ago,
and he told me you were living
up here.”
The two men looked at each
other with perfect understanding.
6 6T\fILL we get stuck into it?”
* ’ Allan asked.
“Will we what!”
“Hey, Stella—you don’t mind
if me and David give it a nudge
tonight, do you?” Allan called.
“You can push it right over
as far as I’m concerned,” came
back his wife’s voice from the
front of the house.
“See what I mean?” Allan said
to David. “She has her faults,
but by God you’d go a long way
to find a better. She knows the
first thing a man wants to do
when he meets up with an old
mate.” ’
“You’re lucky not having kids
to worry about. You can’t come
home drunk with kids in the
house.”
“Yeah —I’m lucky—like a
bloke who has a car but no
ignition-key to start it with.”
“Yes —well—what do you say
to another?”
Sentimentality thus skilfully
bypassed by a sentiment dear to
them both, they improved on T
until the supply of bottles ran
out, after which they both
mounted David’s motor-bike and
set off on the five-mile run to the
Wilfredtown Hotel.
They carried with them on the
journey a soft haze of content-
ment engendered by beer and
reminiscence, and when they
discovered that not only would
Taffy Grayson serve them with
a drink, but would also like them
to adjourn to his parlor for a bit
of a sing-song, the night became
theirs.
When David walked into the
parlor, and, without being asked,
seated himself at the heat-
warped, jangly piano and began
to strum a Welsh air Taffy took
to him as one Welshman to
another. His remote forebears
had been Welsh, a fact which
made Taffy, in a land where all
but a select few were Australians
like himself, more Welsh than
the whole of Wales.
And when David further
began to sing, to his own accom-
paniment, Taffy assumed an
expansive, “hang-the-cost” air
and produced more and ever
more of his best stock-in-trade.
“Sing again, David bach,” he
pleaded after David had sung
“Llwyn On” in his vibrantly-
dramatic but untutored baritone.
And David sang again, and
again, and Taffy, who had gone
out into the yard to get his pet
possum so that it could share
his delight, hummed with the
singer in a peculiarly high-
pitched, disembodied wail, and
hurried busily backwards and
forwards from bar to parlor with
that which was a golden, engulf-
ing wave to shut out the every-
day.
ALL the while the possum
clung expertly to Taffy‘j-
. u . _
shoulder or, m the ™
™ ornen , ts when his master sat
down, transferred his seat to his
master s head where he s t
starmg at David with much the,
same look of concentration on
his face as was on laffy s.
David was fascinated.
“Do you think he’d do that
for me?” he asked Allan.
Allan was close to the stage
where every voice that penetrated
the ever-thickening haze sur-
rounding his brain received a mild
“Wnt9”
and no more Bui he «
fonee? aWe to iudee time and
longer a me to judge time ana
distance, and by the time his lips
bad formed the inevitable
nad rormea me mevnaoie
“Wot? m reply to David s noise,
David was already on the other
side of the room making friends
with Taffy s possum.
At Taffy’s invitation he bent
down his head t 0 the same level
as Taffy’s, and the possum duly
changed seats, as Taffy had
sworn it would.
A grin of wonder and pride
on his face, David walked care-
full back t 0 the piano and the
middy of beer it supported. Sink-
ing the one and strumming the
other? he chucfcled at the
possum’s reflection in the piano’s
pobsbed f ron t.
»\vhat’ll it be, Taffy boy?” he
called out. “One for the
possum?”
“One for us all,” answered
Taffy. “Sing ‘All Through the
Night.’”
“Holl amrantau’r ser
Ar hyd y nos ”
sang David, the possum expertly
p reserv j n g its balance on. his head
tbrougbout And at the e nd
Taffy was blubbering openly.
That, David told himself,
meant it was time to go home,
He walked over to Allan. ,
“Reckon you could hold on
t 0 me on the bike?”
, , ,
Alla °»speech - mechanism
to have run down for
all he could do was grin foolishly
at David. For his part. David
was wondering how on earth he
„ ni - n(r tn „ P( tbprn both
) vas S f mg A/r to bem ... .
back to Mrs - Evans wlthout
~ , , , nninion
accident and what nr P
° h en Taff V °touch^dhil elbow ’
home'in
HI take yer both $ home m
bike on Sfback ”
put yer blke 011 the baCk ’
qQMEHOW or other the two
v 3 0 f them got the heavy motor-
bike 0 n to the truck in the hotel
yard, and off the truck at Allan’s
place, and after a noisy farewell
David guided Allan up the front-
pa th, pushed opert the front-
door, which was on the latch and
fumbled for the light switch.
On now-familiar ground, Allan
began to sober-up a little.
“ ’Ave to see the missus—see
where you’re gonner sleep,” he
mumbled, blinking in the sudden,
harsh light as David’s hand
found the switch. “Come on in.”
And with that he noisily
opened the bedroom - door,
switched on the light and walked
in. David followed him.
Mrs. Evans’s body came up
rigidly j n the bed in a shocked
right-angle. She looked at the
two men in silence for a second
with an unflickering, hostile
stare, and then she opened the
dentureless cavity of her mouth
and screamed
on.moi t, o «i
Gelttha animal out of here!
Get him out !
Allan wriggled himself into a
dignified pose, and held up an
admonitory finger:
“ ’F’e eoes Iso You’re not
tn ’ ~ „ n i m oi »
going to call my mate n animal.
Mrs Evans nlaced one hand
• p , . ,
hysterically with ’ the in
S Dadd’s heS.
David fais hand and
then a grin of understanding
broke on his startled face.
“It’s the possum she means,
not me,” he explained to Allan,
for Taffy’s possum was still
seated comfortably on David’s
head.
“Possum—where’s bed,” Allan
mumbled, showing a tendency
to act as though he were adjust-
ing his body to a heavy rise and
swell at sea.
Mrs. Evans came to the rescue
with a hastily - mumbled
“veranda,” and then retired
beneath the bedclothes, suddenly
remembering with acute embar-
rassment the dentures clenched
in a tranced, magnified smile in
the tumbler by her bed.
David withdrew to the
veranda, possum and all, and
Allan, switching out the light in
their bedroom, undressed in the
dark and fell into bed.
Directly his head hit the
pillow he seemed to lose all
control over his body. It appar-
ently began to float m air from
side ‘to side, and then some
unknown aeencv alternately
f deeP well of
lowered it into a deep weil ot
snence, ano men drew u up
again to the familiar strata where
the sound of his tries voice
lived its own peculiar life.
“Calhns his wife a washine-
vaiungnis wuea wasnmg
machine, he heard her say, and
manased to veil with delisht
before he was again lowered into
the well of silence: “Hooray,
David-she gets it.”
Down, down-and then slowly
up to the sound of;
“I could tell what he was like
directly I saw him.”
. Knowing from experience the
injured silence with which she
would surround herself for the
next few days after David had
gone, Allan asserted himself for
the last time before he was
dropped to the very bottom of
the well:
“Peaseblossom hot . . .
Peaseblossom cold ...”


Opinion,
Said the doctor, "My patient is failing.
My protests seem quite unavailing,
The \nife's the wrong thing,
They should use the small ring
Of Elastrator for marking and tailing.”
Doctor Ram Is right the "Elastrator" way for mark-
ing and tailing is the better way. Many users report
no loss of lambs after using the Elastrator ... no
set-back , , . little fly-strike,
Elastrator Instrument ~ .. £6/6/-% plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) 30/-, plus freight
Elastrator Loader ~ .. £5/5/-, plus freight
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
• A “must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%“=
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TILLEY
products.
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero, 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 244
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Santa Gertrudis
Touching on the question
of Santa Gertrudis cattle
for hot climates, F. H. Finch,
who in 1940 introduced the
King Ranch blood into the
Hereford herds he runs for
Liebig’s Meat Extract Co. in
Corrientes Province, Argentina
(latitude 28 degrees south),
called at The Bulletin office
with some details of shipments
of hybrid steers (50-50 cross)
sent from his property to Swifts
at Rosario:
Per Cent.
Av. Yield to
Weight, Live
No. Age. Lb. Weight.
May, ’53.. 50 2yrs, Smths. 1074 62.4
Mar., ’54.. 52 2„ 8 ~ 1098 61.6
ApL, ’54„ 81 2 „ 9 „ 1049 62.6
All were accepted as first-class
chillers.
Cattle-tick
Summarised from the
C.5.1.R.0. publication “Rural
Research” :
After several decades of suc-
cessful control by arsenical dips,
resistance developed in ticks in
certain areas .of central and
northern Queensland. By 1937
the problem had become acute.
It was solved—temporarily at
least—by the advent of D.D.T.;
later a new insecticide, gamma-
8.H.C., also proved effective.
After as little as two years’
intensive use of 8.H.C., reports
were received that it was failing
to control tick. Tests at the
Animal Health Station, Yeerong-
pilly (Q.), by the late L. F.
Hitchcock, of the C.5.1.R.0.
Division of Entomology, showed
that 185 times as great a con-
centration of B.H.C. was re-
quired to reduce egg-deposition
to the same extent in the resist-
ant as in the “normal” or non-
resistant strain.
Tick-larvae are killed at lower
concentrations of B.H.C. than
are mature ticks. The previ-
ously-recommended concentra-
tion of 500 parts per million of
gamma-B.H.C. will kill the
larvae of the resistant strain ; it
should be possible to control at
that concentration, provided in-
tervals between treatment are not
long enough to allow develop-
ment of mature females.
Development of resistance to
one insecticide is sometimes
accompanied by resistance to
other, not necessarily related,
compounds. But resistance to
arsenical dips was not accom-
panied by high resistance to
8.H.C.; on the other hand,
laboratory tests showed that the
B.H.C .-resistant strain was also
relatively resistant to a number
of insecticides, including sodium
arsenite, chlordane, dieldrin and
“Toxaphene.”
D.D.T. dips continue to give
effective control under field con-
ditions. •
Coastal Dairy Pastures
“Wobar”: Paspalum, the
curse of Sydney’s outer-suburban
footpaths, is still the mainstay
of the dairy industry on much
of the N.S.W. coast; but it is
being replaced by kikuyu-grass,
which is superior in every way
for milk-production.
Both are warm - weather
grasses which produce surplus
coarse growth in summer and
early autumn and insufficient
feed for the herd in winter and
early spring.
Generally, little or no attempt
is made to conserve the surplus
feed, and the sparse winter-
growth is so overgrazed and
weakened that the spring-growth
is seriously reduced for the
milkers just when they are calv-
ing and need it most.
The first point of better
management is to close half the
paddocks during the period of
surplus growth, so that the herd
has good palatable feed well
kept down on the remaining
area. Even if the surplus feed
on the shut-up paddocks is not
conserved, mowing it and
allowing it to rot where it lies
at least returns some nourish-
ment to the soil and makes better
winter-pasture.
Some of the total winter-pas-
ture should then be shut off to
provide more spring-pasture
when it is most needed.
Only a few farmers practise
such half-good management,
and practices which are not
general are specifically excluded
from official cost-of-production
records, on which the price of
milk is based.
So is inefficiency encouraged,
and so we pay for our Australian
way of life.
D.D.T.
“J.F.”; Some heavy guns
have been levelled at D.D.T.
from time to time on the
ground Of its alleged danger to
humans. Dr. P. J. Chapman,
entomologist, of Cornell Uni-
versity (U.S.A.), writing in
“Agricultural Chemicals,” ex-,
amines the matter from the food
angle:
To say that a chemical is toxic is
not to say that it presents a hazard
if ingested in minute amounts. That
is an important distinction. For
years we have been eating foods that
contain small amounts of added
chemicals which if taken in excess
would be harmful. Some examples
are mould-inhibitors, bactericides,
antioxidants, emulsifiers, preservatives,
etc.
Dr. G. W. Pearce, of the U.S.
Public Health Service, is quoted :
Originally it was thought that
D.D.T. was dangerous to use because
it tended to accumulate in the body-
fat of humans and it would eventually
reach a dangerous level. Subsequent
work indicated that a storage-plateau
was reached which would not be
seriously high at the usual intake-
levels of our daily diets.
More recently work at the Techni-
cal Development Laboratories Of the
U.S. Public Health Service has
demonstrated that the D.D.T.-like
material store in human-fat consists
largely of a degradation product of
D.D.T. called D.D.E., which is prac-
tically non-toxic.
That, for the present, seems to *
dispose of the food danger. A
number of competent Australian
dermatologists, although they
are, not apt to rush into print, in
clinical practice have come to
look on D.D.T. (and a growing
list of commercial products,
including detergents) with a
certain sourness. These, how-
ever, remain industrial and
domestic, rather than agricul-
tural, problems.
Apple-drop
“Pomona”; After this good
season for'apple-production, the
alternate-bearing habit of most
varieties will probably make
next year a lean one.
In these circumstances there
should be a demand for the
new hormone sprays, which are
successful in reducing fruit-
drop.
Naphthalene acetic acid com-
pound is the hormone generally
used for this purpose, but the
hormone weed-killers 2,4-D and
2,4,5-T, in dilute solutions, are
giving better results on some
varieties in U.S.A.
The hormone treatment not
only reduces apple-drop but also
slightly increases the size of the
fruit and heightens its color.
The only fly in the ointment is
that the keeping-quality of the
fruit is lowered.
In Brief
J. N. McCulloch, retiring
stock-inspector, told the Hume
P.P. Board that the system of
detecting pleuro-pneumonia in
N.S.W. cattle should be
abolished or drastically revised
(Albury “Border Morning
Mail”). Present set-up, he said,
is absurd —a matter of forms
rather than of diagnosis.
* * *
“C.M.”: Bulls sold at the
Alice (freight subsidised by the
Commonwealth) came from
four States, W.A. and Tasmania
being only States unrepresented.
About 100 offered, half being
Shorthorns. Good attendance
of buyers.
♦ # ♦
First shipment of inter-State
bulk-sugar left Cairns (Q.) in
the Uloola early this month ; it’s
an experimental shipment, with
an eye to the possibilities of
switching to bulk-handling.
* * *
“M.”; Victorian butter out-
put last year was 39,000 tons,
compared with 37,000 tons in
the previous year. In all,
1,146,225 boxes of butter were
produced—36,469 more than the
combined total for all the other
Australian States.
* * *
There was unusual interest in
Khancoban (N.S.W.) reduction-
sales at Corryong (Vic.); Khan-
coban is one of the historic
Upper Murray properties, and
Colonel C. J. Chisholm has for
years run an even line of Here-
fords. At Corryong 850 of them
went under the hammer ; buyers
from both States well in attend-
ance. It’s rare, in that part of
the country, to see so many from
one property sold in a mob, but
the reason is that part of Khan-
coban is being taken-over for
soldier-settlement.
• * ♦
Never rains, but . . . The
dry Kimberleys (W.A.) have had
rain, one property (Mt. Ander-
son) losing 3000 sheep in a wave,
as it were, of the swollen Fitz-
roy.
• ♦ a
E. S. Pascoe, in a presi-
dential address to the (U.K.)
National Federation of Meat
Traders, said that, with time for
derationing very close, the Gov-
ernment hadn’t announced de-
tails of marketing arrange- •
ments. They knew the Govern-
ment scheme included a system
of grading to which the indi-
vidual guaranteed prices would
be related, and they believed the
machinery being worked out
was more complex than they had
anticipated. Unless adequate
slaughtering facilities were avail-
able the whole Government
scheme could break down
during July or August (“Times”
report).
From this distance it is diffi-
cult to gauge these (mainly
domestic) worries. Slaughtering
looms large, and, to Australian
eyes, the president’s complaint
that depots 40 miles apart are
“inadequate” reads strangely.
However, any possibility of a
general breakdown (which,
from this end, seems improb-
able) is of more than academic
interest.
♦ ♦ ♦
“North Queensland Register”
reports decline in number of
stores coming into Queensland
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The first part of the important three-year test begins
with the general rains of May. After that come the dry, cold
winter, then some relief in the spring, and in the summer
good rains lasting till autumn, and then another similar dry
period, with a cold winter lasting to the next summer. When
the summer rains of 1956 come the season should be a good
one. '
These conditions apply to the middle regions of Aus-
tralia ; n'ot to the far north or (roughly) south of Canberra.
The first part—general May rains and the preceding
transitory cold—has come, but there are some cyclical con-
ditions that must be stated. There are two phases to this
cycle—one a seasonal phase when the rains come at the
same time of year, and the astronomical one which brings
them about two months later and which would delay these
rains till late June or early July.
Again, the last manifestation of the rains may have
been from another and longer cycle which the records are
not long enough to check.
Immediate prospect is for more light rain, then heavier
rain about the middle of the month.


FARMERS' BOY
does a MAN’S job
about the place
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
SXEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x tin. metal cleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS’ BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations:
NSW* GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE. LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
Queensland; BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND). LTD., 443 Adelaide St..
Sole A«I ba A?enls F - A HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION.
THE...
ETC.
m
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health . Guaranteed.
Fhis self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage or
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
NO
NO
4U
YOU CAN INSTAI. IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
DARWIN:
Singapore
N. 2.:
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
— DISTRIBUTORS
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
LEAN FI aUS
BIG CROPS
#*
s&v
:-;;;- : w,;.i : '
:■■■:■ :, : ;s
■■l
II
,; ■
filil
I
»
m I
■
McCORMICK
INTERNATIONAL SCARIFIER
THE new McCormick International scarifier is
built for low-cost stubble mulching, summer
fallowing, weed eradication, sub-surface tilling
and for operation in stony, hard soil. By simply
changing the ground-working points, shovels or
sweeps, you can easily and quickly adapt this
implement to do any of these jobs under almost
any soil conditions. Overhead bridle draught
assures a high, under-frame clearance and full
stump-jump action with maximum penetrating
pressure at all working levels. You can speedily
make adjustments in working depth, and raise
or lower the tynes from the tractor seat. GL-32
is available in 8, 9 and 10 ft. sizes with manual
control or 2-way hydraulic remote-control, and
pneumatic or steel wheels. See your Inter-
national Harvester dealer.
INTERNATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL
BUILDER OF ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT
HARVESTER
FOR ESSENTIAL WORK
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD. (INC. IN VICTORIA). WORKS: DANDENONG AND GEELONG.
from the Northern Territory-
-21 to 25 mobs, against about 50
in an average season. Losses of
calves in the ’52 drought one
reason; recent dry spell,
another.
The stock-route from the
Territory into Queensland
through Rankine down to Lake
Nash was in a bad state, said
C. R. Mulhearn, Queensland’s
chief vet., who was in those
parts for a conference; so most
N.T. cattle would have to come
through Camooweal. Some
would go down the border-fence
to Lake Nash and across to
Dajarra, as the route down the
Georgina was impassable, and
from Dajarra down the Wills
River. The greater part would
take the routp from Camooweal
to Mt. Isa, "which was (at that
time) in a reasonable condition
as far as feed and water were
concerned; but most of the
‘water was surface-water,, and
could diminish quickly.
* * *
Grafton (N.S.W.) “Daily Ex-
aminer” reports keen local in-
terest in Zebu cattle (which,
among other peculiarities, sweat
like horses) resting there for a
break on their way to Yeerong-.
piUy (Q.).
“Dubbo Liberal” (N.S.W.)
reports an extraordinary speech
—extraordinary because of the
issues involved —by L. Peacocke,
to the Buninyong Agricultural
Bureau, protesting against a
refusal by Minister for Agricul-
ture Graham to spare the axe on
the 10-mile reserve (64 acres of
heavily-timbered country, front-
ing the river, on the Narromine
road) and to make it a bird-
sanctuary.
Quite apart from the merits
of a sanctuary—the place now
houses thousands of birds —one
would think any Minister for
Agriculture in a State with such
a horrible history of timber-
destruction as N.S.W. has (the
hoop-pine forests of Dorrigo;
the cypress-pines on the Bogan ;
etc., etc.) would think twice be-
fore ordering the application of
an axe to a tree, anywhere; just
on general principles. Especially
in these parts, where, as de
Beuzeville put it, “their true
destiny was to present an ever-
lasting wooded barrier against
the scorching influence of the 1
western plains,”
Politicians do queer things.
Writer was up in the snow-lease
country a couple of weeks ago,
where the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment still permits the firing of
leases, with subsequent destruc-
tion of snow-gums, humus and,
eventually, soil; all for a paltry
annual sum in rentals. But if
there is some excuse for
graziers, many of whom don’t
fully realise the destructive pro-
cess (the grass shoots up well
after firing), and who don’t own
the land, anyway, it’s a bit hard
to understand the mentality of
the men at the top, who, if they
don’t kiipw, only have to ask
any of a number of highly-
trained experts in their own
departments.
“Greater production” is the
usual excuse offered in such
cases; which has a fine, fat
political sound: but in cases
such as the spoliation of the
Kiandra leases any gain in stock
carried is a fleabite to the
damage. A significant thing
about the 10-mile-reserve case is
that it was a local body that
objected.
• •
At the Savoy (Sydney), private
screening of a documentary by
Associated TV showing airlift
of stud bulls to Brunette Downs
(N.T.). Shorthorns, they looked
a bit perturbed at the take-off,
but were chewing their cuds at
a high altitude, breath misting
around them. Planes, Bristol
Freighters; loads, six to nine
bulls, two abreast. Fares, about
£lOO each; but —as nearly as
could be judged from a theatre
seat —figures at the sale at
Brunette Downs more than paid
for passage.
N R. Job, president of the
Inverell (N.S.W.) F.S.A. branch,
thinks growers should switch
from wheat to something else
(“Northern Daily Leader ),
temporarily, anyway.
* * *
U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture reports that U.S. fartners
have sold a record 549,636,454
bushels of 1953-crop wheat to
the Government under this
year’s price-support scheme
(previous record, 1950,
460,550,000 bushels); $1215 mil-
lion-worth (about £540 million).
* * *
Storage of wheat likely to be
a problem this year (as every-
one has predicted). “The
Leader” (Melbourne) reports
that many Victorian growers are
planning to store some of their
crop themselves, but this works
out at nearly £5OO for a 3000-
bushel silo with auger-equip-
ment. One difficulty is that the
Wheat Board will not make an
advance - payment on grain
stored on farms.
* ♦ *
Queensland Department of
Agriculture reports that the
State’s maize-crop (subject to
certain qualifications, s&ch as
frost-damage) should be about
2,500,000 bushels, compared
with 2,000,000 bushels last year.
Main areas are Atherton Table-
land and South Burnett; former
doing well, but South Burnett
was affected by wind and rain in
February. • ,
* * *
C.5.1.R.0. reports “extremely
severe” phosphorus - deficiency
(by sample tests) in four soil-
types from the Katherine (N.T.).
The grey, red and limestone soils
responded to applications of
sulphur, the red and granitic
soils to molybdenum.
* * *
“In general, the outlook for
Australian pig-raisers is more
favorable than a year ago. The
relationship of costs and prices
has improved, and there has
been a strengthening of the
domestic market. Overseas,
although prospects generally are
not attractive, the U.K, market
for the Australian surplus of
good-quality lightweight car-
casses remains firm.” (Bureau
of Agricultural Economics.)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Brick Areas
In Woodside - avenue, Burwood
(N.S.W.), is a large wooden house named
Wellings, a striking example of the
Gothic-Revival style of architecture
popular in the mid-19th century. The
house still has a shingle-roof—probably
the original one —the wooden balustrade
of the balcony of the main gable is
elaborately carved, and extensive, well-
kept grounds make a beautiful setting.
Wellings is one of the show-places of
Burwood ; but it could not be built where
it stands today because it is in a “brick
area”!
Examples such as this (others could' be
cited from various Sydney suburbs) show
how unreasonable is the regulation under
which councils may proclaim “brick
areas” in which timber or fibre buildings
may not be erected. '
Wood is an admirable medium for
building, and it is hard that those who
prefer it should have to go to the out-
skirts of the metropolis or choose suburbs
without the “all-brick” stipulation.
Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Education
All Fulbright scholars who come to
Australia from the United States have
academic training, and those who are
teachers usually have also a good know-
ledge of education methods and trends
in the U.S, Their views, therefore, on
education in this country, and on Aus-
tralian opinions of American education,
are valuable —and stimulating.
As visitors, they do not like their
names attached publicly to their views,
but almost all are rather indignant at
the contempt with which U.S. education
is frequently viewed in Australia, and
anxious to remove this impression.
One told me in an interview in Can-
berra recently that the Australian edu-
cational system had “a very different
emphasis to the American one. The
former stresses depth of knowledge in a
particular field, while the latter places
more importance on the relating of ideas
from different fields.”.
Another said “I hope I’ve altered Aus-
tralians’ impressions of American uni-
versities,” a remark which is explained by
yet another’s comment: “Australians be-
lieve that, except for Harvard,
most American universities mass-
produce degrees in the same
assembly-line manner that Ford
makes cars.”
One outstanding visitor said
that a system of rigid discip-
line, with use of corporal pun-
ishment, was difficult for Ameri-
cans to get used to, and hours
of instruction were too long,
especially in the infant-schools.
“The kids get tired, cross and
difficult as a result,” he declared.
A woman teacher was criti-
cal of other aspects, some of
which have been discussed in
The Bulletin “The necessity
for external examinations,” she
told me, “means that subject-
matter must be dealt with in a
restricted manner. As a general
rule, lectures are regarded as
more important than discussion
by students,”
In another State one Ful-
brighter found the classes over-
large and the library and equip-
ment limited. “I think that a
visiting American teacher can
make the most effective contri-
bution to his classes,” she said,
“by creating interest in the U.S.
and by answering puzzling ques-
tions on it. The method of re-
search, discussion and con-
clusions,” she also said, “is
almost impossible in Australian
schools because classes are so
large. This makes it nearly
impossible to meet individual difficul-
ties. And, in addition, equipment is often
meagre and libraries inadequate.”
Yet another said that world-globes
were difficult to find, maps were usually
out of date and scarce and good wall-
graphs and -charts were rare. History-
and geography-books were simple to
teach, but were often out of date. Teach-
Pi current events was not emphasised.
and the school material was poor.
Libraries were poorly-equipped and
“spotty.” .
A pleasant change was in the art
classes, she said. She had found that the
materials were simple, the syllabus well-
planned. When the instructor was trained
the standard of instruction was high.
This same teacher was highly critical
of the fact that at least one of the teachers
in her batch from the United States knew
little or nothing of her own country, and
was therefore at a great disadvantage
when Australian children sought to learn
from her something of life and condi-
tions in America.
“Just fancy,” she said, “she’d never
visited in U.S. schools except the ones
she’d taught in. She’d never visited a
legislative assembly, she hadn’t travelled
in the U.S., she’d never seen the Grand
Canyon, or the Mississippi, or New York
City, or Washington, D.C., or Florida, or
Texas, or Oklahoma. She’d never seen
cotton growing, or felt the crisp air of
New England. This can’t be good, but
I’m afraid it’s not possible for her to
realise the magnitude of the disadvantage
under which she’s working.”
Australian teachers who are going
abroad might take those words to heart
concerning their own country—how many
Australians who are going overseas take
the trouble to see Australia first? —•
Charles Meeking (A.C.T.).
Car-stealing
Motor-vehicles stolen, 3730; value,
two or three million pounds ; recovery,
94 per cent. Other property stolen:
value nearly four-fifths of a million; re-
covery, 18 per cent.
That was the tally for N. S. Wales in
1953. The contrast in recovery-rate is
explained by most of the car-thieves being
“merely borrowers.” ,
In court recently an appeal was heard
on behalf of two young men against the
sentence of a lower court for car-steal-
ing. One was 23, the other 18. Each was
mildly “known,” the elder for pilfering
from a chain-store, the younger for taking
milk-money. They had gone some dis-
tance to a Mardi Gras, consuming a bottle
of wine en route. In elevated mood they
appropriated a car, and very soon there
were four of the unfortunate; one
owner, one car, two thieves.
The owner could get £75 for the Wreck
at a junk-shop, and he estimated he would
be £3OO out-of-pocket. His Honor fixed
it for the senior boy to pay £2OO and the
junior £lOO. The latter already had sold
all his prized possessions for £4O to go
towards compensation. Their employers
“ It'll have to come down—the bloke who
laid the foundation-stone isn't in the union."
were trusting the young men to go straight
in future, and were keeping them on.
Youths of this type constitute no mean
proportion of the car- and raotorbike-
thieves. Often their home background
has been unsatisfactory. Most of them,
having learned a hard lesson, can retrieve
their good characters for keeps with a
little help.
This necessary tempering with mercy.
however, makes the task of stamping out
this crime most difficult. In any case, it
is plainly the duty of the State to improve
at once its methods for preventing the
theft of 53 motor-vehicles every average
week.—H. V. N. (N.S.W.).
The Australian Worker
As an Englishman I can add to
those migrants’ tributes to the
Australian worker (B. 14/4/’54). The
same bloke is amazingly tolerant.
He must be. Day after day he
reads in his newspapers or hears on his
radio complaints that he does not know
how to work any more. Yet he never
seems to rise in anger against these
pundits.
I’ve sat in astonishment at public
meetings, consisting mainly of people
who worked for their living, and heard
them told how lazy, shiftless and com-
mercially immoral they were —and heard
them applaud the speaker at the end of
it all!
True, too, that Australian employers
are very casual in their attitude to hiring
»labor. But, of course, the worker does
not need to discuss \yages, conditions, or
anything else with the employer—it’s all
laid down in the awards, and a very good
thing, too.
The award-system is a wonderful insti-
tution to a man coming from the old
countries where the free market in labor
still operates to a great extent. Bargain-
ing with an employer for a few extra
shillings a week can be as degrading in
times of prosperity as it was in days of
depression.
I came back from the war to England
to take up my old job, and asked for
half as much again as I was getting before
the war. That would have given me
£6 155., against £4 10s., to make up for
the increase in the cost of living (no
basic-wage adjustments in England). I
had to settle for £6, and had not been
working more than a few weeks when I
found that the man next to me, doing
the same job, but without war service,
was getting £7 10s.
I didn’t stay in that job long.
I’m with those migrants and their
friends—there could not be a better
country for a man who has to work for
his living. And, if you don’t want hordes
of manservants and retainers, there
couldn’t be a much better country for
the man who doesn’t have to work, either.
-R. H. (Q.).
Food-production
The National Bank’s monthly review
records that last year Britain produced
more beef than either Australia or the
Argentine. Other figures just released
show that England’s production of apples
last year was 25 million bushels —just
about twice that of Australia.
On the face of it, the fault of Aus-
tralia and the Argentine appears to be
large-scale production. Nowhere in the
British Isles is there a single holding to
compare even nearly with those in the
two southern - hemisphere countries.
Beef-production in England is confined
almost entirely to small areas of not more
than two or three square miles.
True, the British climate is vastly dif-
ferent from that of Australia or the
Argentine, but against that must be set
the fact that Britain’s soil has been in
constant concentrated production for a
thousand years. It is, according to latest
production-figures, more fertile than
ever.
Irrigation, or the lack of it, is one of
Australia’s biggest problems, and the
sooner agricultural experts stop burbling
about the wonders likely to be brought
about by atomic energy and set to work
ta develop the resources we have with
the power we have (or can quickly get)
the better it will be for our production.
And the Sooner we can get over the
obsession with big holdings the better.
Where one man owns land on which it
is possible to make £20,000 a year and
only uses half of it because of taxation,
then the land could be split into two
holdings each returning £lO,OOO a year,
with consequent benefit to the Treasury
and to the country in general.
A reversion to the ideas of Macquarie
and of English Government in the early
days of settlement —the idea of a class
of small farmers —could boost Australia’s
production immensely.
There are plenty of possible settlers
in Italy and similar European countries
where a whole family lives off a couple
of acres of land. Our selectors of Euro-
pean migrants might do well to get away
from the atmosphere of the D.P. camps
and go out into the countryside for
potential farmers.—No Sirrah (Q.).
____ '
On Winning Friends
For the second time in as many weeks,
the Melbourne express arrived half a day
late in Sydney because of an accident
which delayed traffic on a' New South
Wales portion of the line. Fourteen people
in the two divisions were booked
to sail from Sydney to New Zealand by
a ship which left port some six hours
before the tardy engines chuffed into
Central Station. Of these 14, five who
hired a taxi to Wagga airport and took
plane passages from there caught the
ship; the other nine missed it and the
Travellers’ Aid Society was called upon
to help find accommodation for a number
of them.
N. S. Wales Railways lost a great
chance to make a generous gesture which
would have repaid them a hundredfold
in goodwill. All they had to do was to
charter a car or plane to take the stranded
passengers to Sydney.
Actually, they did nothing. They were
apparently content to pass the buck to
the Travellers’ Aid Society even when
it came to finding somewhere for dis-
appointed people to stay in a city where
they had been thus dumped.
The whole episode indicates lack of
conviction behind Commissioner Winsor’s
campaign to make friends and influence
people. My bet is that the airlines will
have made a number of converts from
this latest bungle.— Piper (N.S.W.).
Canada
It was rather unjust to Canadian politi-
cal leaders of the past to say (B. 14/4/’54)
that within the past 20 years Canada has
“replaced the old demagogic politicians by
Ministers of high business-capacity, hold-
ing their offices for long terms and, though
nominally belonging to parties, governing
and accepted by the electorate on non-
party lines.”
Canada has produced statesmen of high
stature from the time of Federation
(1866). Sir John Macdonald, who held
the Prime Ministership for years, was a
leader of world class —a man of courage,
vision and enterprise. He showed all
three qualities when he sponsored the
building of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
French-Canadian Sir Wilfrid Laurier
and also Sir Robert Borden were other
.leaders who well-merited the title of
statesman.
The extended terms of office of these
Prime Ministers indicate considerable
political stability in Canada from Federa-
tion to the 1920’s. — Lyle (N.S.W.).


Television on Tape
The question of TV for Australia
looks like being settled with a positive
“Yes” by the latest developments in elec-
tronics, Most of us know the tape-
recorder, which stores sound (such as a
radio programme) on a magnetic tape and
reproduces it when fed back through the
machine —you can buy one for £l5O or
less. Now comes news of a tape-machine
which records the visual side as well as
sound
General David Sarnoff, doyen of the
American television and radio industry,
has announced that his engineers have
developed a way of recording television
programmes, both black-and-white and
color, on a magnetic tape. The new pro-
cess was demonstrated last December in
U.S.
Further details read like science fiction.
The device will apply to films just as
much as to television. Pictures can be
recorded without any chemical process-
ing from the sound-camera on to the
tape, which can be screened immediately
—expensive film is eliminated. More, the
original tape can be multiplied as neces-
sary, and it can be edited, cut, and cen-
sored by de-magnetising.
“In my lifetime,” said General Sarnoff,
“I have witnessed many advances in
radio, television and electronics, but few
have stirred my imagination more in
recent years than color-television and
video tape-recording.”
In Australia our imaginations should
be stirred, too. With this new develop-
ment of television on tape, the high cost
of programmes will no longer apply as
a barrier. We should be able to produce
television programmes on tape at the
same price as current radio programmes.
As well, we can import the best of over-
seas programmes.— Gyro-Joe (N.S.W.).
Bread
You don’t have to buy bread (B.
21/4/’54). In our city zoning gave us
the choice between two local bakers, both
fine examples of the take-it-or-leave-it
variety. We gave them both away.
Our first batch of rolls got by on the
grounds of novelty, and the second lot,
planned for a rich, crusty exterior, proved
wonderful exercise for Towser’s fangs.
With the third baking, however, we had
it licked.
It’s easy, and cheap. The two stages
of actual handling take no more than ten
minutes, and, after the dough has risen
twice, three-quarters of an hour at 435
degrees (our oven) gives a perfectly-
baked loaf.
Quality is much superior to what we’d
been used to, and freshness for at least
three days is assured by using a propor-
tion of milk instead of water. The little
effort is well worth while, because
whereas we merely used to get bread, we
now like bread.— Civav (Q.).
Socialisation
Socialisation is stretching out into the
central-west of N. S. Wales to grab the
Ulan electricity undertaking. About six
years ago five adjoining shires and one
municipality formed the Ulan County
Council to establish a thermal power-
plant at Ulan, where known coal-sup-
plies are sufficient to last 800 years. The
main towns in the area are Mudgee,
Coonabarabran, Gulgong, Dunedoo and
Coolah.
After early difficulties the project was
starting to make headway when along
came Minister for Local Government
J. B. Renshaw and Commissioner Conde.
They proposed that the State take over
the project and the council become merely
a distributing authority. The council, as
an easy way of unloading its difficulties,
has agreed in principle;
The Mary Vale-Sandy Hollow rail-
way-line, on which Cahill and co. have
abandoned work, passes through Ulan
and Gulgong, and many are set wonder-
ing why Cahill can’t find a bean for this
project when he seems to have unlimited
millions to waste on nationalising elec-
tricity undertakings.—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
The 40-hour Week
It is generally conceded that the 40-
hour week has been directly responsible
for a 20-25 per cent, increase in the cost
of everything. The added cost of living
since 1948 stems directly from it; and
consequent wage-increases have made
almost impossible getting value back
into the pound.
Because of our devalued currency we
have for too long presented our overseas
markets with an Australian-pouhd’s-worth
of produce for 16s. sterling. On top of
that our own money is inflated far be-
yond reason in a country as potentially
wealthy as ours.
The 40-hour week has not contributed
one iota to national prosperity in any but
“Hullo? Is that the Water Board? The Cold-Water Board ?”
personal directions. Most of the ameni-
ties w© enjoy have been common to
Western civilisation for well over half a
century ; the only difference is that we
now pay more heavily for them than ever
before. We have these amenities in spite
of the 40-hour week, not because of it.
If Australia is very prosperous today
it is because of fat wool-cheques and
vast sums being spent by overseas con-
cerns in developing the country.
Our prices for various commodities are
not very popular overseas lately, and it
remains to be seen for how long the high-
cost produce of the 40-hour week will be
able to face up to the kind of competition
we are likely to meet in the near future.
—Shellback (N.S.W.).
The forebodings about the baneful
effects of the 40-hour week may not have
been realised yet, but our present pros-
perity must be taken with considerable
reservations. The real cause of our
financial stability is not increased indus-
trial production, but the refusal of Nature
to restrict her pastoral and agricultural
output to a 40-hour darg. Subtract the
record cheques for wheat and wool from
the national income and Australia would
be poor indeed.
World-wide, hunger for our primary
products and the absence of foreign com-
petition in industrial markets are fortu-
nate circumstances for which we can take
no credit and on which we cannot depend.
A drought at home or a glut abroad —
both quite possible in the near future—
could result in a slump.
Already the war-shattered alien factor-
ies are rebuilt and are working round-the-
clock to recover markets which we must
lose unless we can cut our costs and
undersell our competitors. They are
fighting for their lives while we are only
defending our amenities. .
Plants that work three shifts for six or
seven days per week must produce more
at less cost than plants working only one
shift on five days per week.
If we import freely we ruin our own
factories. If we ban imports we lose our
overseas customers. Unless we work
harder and longer the “baneful effects”
will soon be apparent. — Jock W. (S.A.).
Speech-training
“Rann” (B. 28/4/’54) is on the right
track about Australian speech, but why
the emphasis on debating? The discus-
sion-group will not only teach people the
art of speech; it will also develop a sin-
cerity of presentation that debating may
well kill.
It is pointless and wrong that pupils
should be encouraged to argite “for” or
“against” a topic, irrespective of their
personal beliefs. The hypocrisy of party
politics has been in no small measure due
to the training of past generations in
school debates. In these, youngsters have
been taught to sound convincing with
their tongues in their cheeks.
The standard of speech today is deplor-
able, but it should be remedied with more
reading, greater attention to speech and
correction of errors by teachers, and dis-
cussion-groups. Those are the direct
approaches. — Peers (Tas.).
Another Canning Needed ?
Can’t agree with the suggestion (B.
17/2/’54) that a Palmerston is needed in
place of Eden and Dulles for dealing
with Molotov. Palmerston was forth-
right enough, but, unfortunately, he
didn’t* follow words with action. He
scored off the Egyptians because Egypt
was only a third-rate Power, and off
Louis Philippe of France because the
Frenchman was pacific-minded, but he
cut a poor figure when Bismarck called
his bluff.
When Austria and Prussia threatened
Denmark over Schleswig - Holstein,
Palmerstop adopted a bold front. The
Danes, believing that England would
stand behind them, became stiff-necked.
When Bismarck showed that he could
not be turned from his purpose by talk,
Palmerston left Denmark to her fate.
What Britain really needs today in
the diplomatic sphere is a Canning. He
was not only a straight talker, but he did
what he promised. His information, too,
was remarkably accurate. The Treaty of
Tilsit had hardly been signed before he
had the terms —someone high in the
confidence of the French Emperor or
the Tsar was obviously in his pay.
Tipping that the Danish Navy was
likely to be handed over to Napoleon,
Canning promptly seized it, moving so
swiftly and secretly that the other side
had no time for counter-measures.
In the 1820’s, 'when a French army
invaded Spain to overthrow the revolu-
tionary Liberal Government in the in-
terest of King Ferdinand 11, Canning per-
suaded the American President, Monroe,
to promulgate the Monroe Doctrine, and
let the world know that the U.S.A. would
have British support in its enforcement.
Thus he thwarted any European Power
with designs against the former Spanish-
American empire, then fast securing
independence.— Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Car Costs
The lowest quote I could get for re-
covering the hood of my small car was
£15 —and that’s for four hours’ work,
using less than two yards of material at
about £1 ss. a yard, plus a quid’s-worth
of trimmings. Which means that the car-
trimmer now wants £2 17s. 6d. an hour
for his work.
There’s no doubt about it—the
motorist hasn’t got many friends.—
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Teaching Languages
The problem of teaching languages
always comes down to one thing: that
languages, more than any other subject,
must be learned, not taught. Which means
that teachers of languages, to be success-
ful, must have an unusual degree of in-
terest in their subject and the ability to
communicate that interest rather than
elucidate declensions and conjugations.
Language students can be divided into
two broad classes: the willing and the
unwilling. The willing (including the
people who study foreign languages for
their own sake with a kind of platonic
devotion) will learn by one means or
another in spite of the worst teaching ;
they present no problem.
The trouble lies with the unwilling and
the not-particularly-interested, and that
class is largest in insular communities like
Australia, Great Britain and North
America, where there is no real stimulus
of necessity to speak the other fellow’s
tongue. It is a class which increases in
size with each generation, and in direct
proportion to the economic prosperity of
the country, because if you know that
the other man, in the last resort, has to
speak your language for his bread-and-
butter there is not much incentive to
speak his.
If we last long enough there will pro-
bably be a world-language determined by
purely political and economic factors, but
until that day the teaching of languages in
schools and elsewhere will always be un-
satisfactory and the only people who will
learn them properly will be those driven
; by love (platonic or otherwise) and the
sharp spur of necessity.—R. N. (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 277
Across
I—Touching1—Touching little devil swallowed
by a polite little fellow who isn’t
a devil at all. (9)
6 —Angles with these fibres. (5)
9 —The fops of Jpopj. (9)
10— Which man wants the meal when
500 are not wanted for dinner?
(5)
11— He often works in the dark house
that fell among pronouns. (5)
13—St. Robin’s achievement? (9)
15 — Piano hail stone is to be put in
the way according to this direc-
tion! (4)
16— Yap to measure a navigator. (8)
18—Tom and I row like a daring and
reckless Roman conspirator. (8)
20 —Aspasia is a great land like Ire-
land? (4)
24 You lie betwen the cloth and the
furniture with credit. (9)
25 — Where is the pavement artist’s
work to begin? (5)
26 — Egg-shaped moulding rings about
the volume. (5)
27 — Stretch out too far to grasp noth-
ing five sinners do apiece. (9)
29 — A yard and a quarter is Have-
lock. (5)
30 — Frenchman of greater deviations
who employs Roly for interior-
decoration. (4-5)
Down
1 — Yours Truly claims to be the
sovereign pen. (7)
2 It may make advance reports on
a dance where ginger-beer is
available. (3-4)
3 Sister Joshua’s parent. (3)
4 Pass by the Spanish cathedral
feature. (6)
5 This makes doggone Curtis sit
up. (3)
6 They’ll be well-to-do widows
like Josephine in long hair. (11)
7 Barrel to leave the Italian ingre-
dient of many paints and lino-
leums. (4-3)
8— King Bradman is the larval sala-
mander. (7)
12—Old regimes do not survive such
top activity. (11)
14 —Terrible one on a wagon. (4)
17— Slight Easter nourishment is sent
up. (4)
18 — Fleshy front of the automobile.
(7)
19 — Wind erosion removes this toy s
lubricant. (7)
21— The original Emmet is immov-
able. (7)
22 — Homer is likely to disgrace this
vessel. (7)
23—Pest with the red toe enters
wooden ships, brut not by the
gangway or the porthole. (6)
27 — Boor has one of its surroundings.
(3)
28— St. Flora of Ophelia included it.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 276


V*M \IL~J
ADM
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman St., South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broadford (Vic.),
Botany ( N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
By wise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national wealthy, and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which have
been planted out.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000.
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
pajier and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M, is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased m N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan ‘Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW RULE
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandria, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is at
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Mary vale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns ot
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war,
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products .supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would haie
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
51/2 MILLION
PAYROLL
In the aggregate A.P.M. is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50;000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia.
The pulp and paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buddings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M, serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as arc used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper' industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
