

THE HOUSE
df
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE NEW TOYS OF MARS
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75— No. 3869
Wednesday, April 7, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
FROM POTTERGATE, LINCOLN CATHEDRAL CAN BEST BE SEEN
LINCOLN Cathedral, which has been described as a poem in architecture,
is the chief attraction for visitors to Lincolnshire, but there is much
else of interest in the historic city of Lincoln.
One of the most ancient relics in Old Lincoln is the Newport Arch,
which is the only Roman arch in England which still spans a main road.
Beneath this massive grey archway passes the modern traffic of to-day, but
the oldest parts of it have seen the spears of Roman legions. The origin of
Lincoln reaches back to the days when it was known to the Britons as Caer-
lindcoit. It was known to the Celts as Linn-dun, and when the Romans invaded
the fenland, about the year A.D. 48, they established a camp there which they
called Lindum. It was garrisoned by the Ninth Legion and it was from
there that they hurried south to quell the historic rebellion of Boadicea. Lindum
ceased to be a military outpost as the Romans pushed further north and the
camp became a civil settlement, enjoying, as one of the chief Roman towns of
Britain, the privileged municipal status of Colony; its name becoming Lindum
Colonia, which in the course of time shortened to the present name of
Lincoln.
The Romans, and, in later years, the Danes, left an abiding mark on
the city. Their walls have continued to influence the town plan to the
present day. The Romans made the Foss-dyke Canal which is still in use,
and among the great Roman roads which still serve the citizen and the
traveller are Ermine Street and the Fosse Way.
Soon after the Norman Conquest in lhe_ eleventh century, Lincoln was
one of the foremost towns in Britain; William the Conqueror decided to
build a castle there and it was also chosen as the seat of a bishopric. Lincoln
continued to grow and its prosperity during medieval days was based upon
the wool trade. The raw wool was brought to Lincoln along the Roman
Roads and waterways and from there it was exported to Flanders and the
Hanseatic towns to be made into cloth.
During the turbulent days of the thirteenth century permission was
obtained from Edward I to enclose the Cathedral precincts with a defensive
wall. Two of its gateways still exist to-day; one of which, known as
Pottergate, is shown in the accompanying illustration. From this ancient
gateway one of the best views of the minster may be obtained.


WRITE FOR PROFIT
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the* past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B.C.
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Dally Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
OUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— —-
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 754),. AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS;
The Beltane Book Bureau, P-0. 96 j?z and Aus
N.Z., specialises in rare a “?, cu " ” J general in-
tralian books, also in bookish ltem ® S e advance
terest. Our Bulletins and &/ }
news, gossip and book sale P« es ; fl , ]te ßS, in Aus ’
We specialise in Katherine Mansfie an( j fauna
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history. and publish
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc..
Ot JN.£u> oOULII Ocdb» -v
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set o
The Red Page
SOMERSET MAUGHAM
For some reason not stated, which may
be its great length or may be implied in
an ominous reference to the printing of
nine of his “most widely read” novels,
Somerset Maugham’s best novel, Of
Human Bondage, is not included in the
three-volume “selected novels” newly pub-
lished by Heinemann.
The selection is: Vol. 1, Liza of Lam-
beth, Cakes and Ale, Theatre; Vol. 2,
The Moon and Sixpence, The Narrow
Corner, The Painted Veil; Vol. 3,
Christmas Holiday, Up at the Villa and
The Razor’s Edge.
The result is, of course, a crisp and
varied lot of reading, a clear view of
Maugham as a popular entertainer.
Cakes and Ale is the portrait of a famous
novelist —generally, though Maugham
has denied it, supposed to be Thomas
Hardy—interesting for its study of the
novelist’s fictional wife and remarkable
for its scarifying picture of another
famous and more popular novelist who,
though again Maugham has denied it, is
usually identified with poor Hugh Wal-
pole ;
“I know I’m not a great novelist,” he
will tell you. “When I compare myself
with the giants I simply don’t exist. I used
to think that one day I should write a
really great novel, but I’ve long ceased even
to hope for that. All I want people to say
is that I do my best. I do work. I never
let anything slipshod get past me. I think
I can tell a good story and 1 can create
characters that ring true. And, after all,
the proof of the pudding is in the eating:
The Eye of the Needle sold 35,000 in Eng-
land and 80,000 in America, and for the
serial rights of my next book I’ve got the
biggest terms I’ve ever had yet.”
The Moon and Sixpence is the Gauguin
story, containing, besides its macabre end-
ing, the delightful portrait of the hapless
little Dutch artist blithely painting his
atrocious canvases and adoring the
enigmatic wife whom Strickland (Gau-
guin) steals and then callously abandons
to suicide. The Narrow Corner is the
South Seas tale, with an Australian ne’er-
do-well for its central character (a great
reader of The Bulletin), and with Dr.
Saunders philosophising for Maugham as
Ashenden and others do elsewhere and
as Marlow did for Conrad:
Dr, Saunders took an interest in his
fellows that was not quite scientific and not
quite human. He wanted to receive enter-
tainment from them. He regarded them
dispassionately and it gave him just the same
amusement to unravel the intricacies of the
individual as a mathematician might find
in the solution of a problem. He made no
use of the knowledge he obtained. The
satisfaction he got from it was aesthetic,
and if to know and judge men gave him a
subtle sense of superiority he was uncon-
scious of it. He had fewer prejudices than
most men. The sense of disapproval was
left out of him.
But Maugham, if indeed Dr. Saunders is
presenting here the novelist’s own out-
look, is perhaps more human than he is
aware. The portrait of Alroy Kear,
whether he was really meant to be Wal-
pole or only someone very like him, is
scrupulously fair; but it is written in
vitriol. So is the analysis of Hardy, whom
(forgetting that he himself contrives to
have an experienced married woman
learn from a nun that she is pregnant in
The Painted Veil) he rightly reproaches
with great scorn for his ignorance of the
physiology of women in Tess of the
D’Urbervilles, and bn whose success in
late life he comments:
His prime belonged to a period when the
purple patch was in vogue and there are
descriptive passages in his works that have
found their way into all the anthologies of
English prose. His pieces on the sea, and
spring in the Kentish woods, and sunset
on the lower reaches of the Thames are
famous. It should be a mortification to me
that I cannot read them without discom-
fort But of course what the critics wrote
about Edward Driffield was eyewash. His
outstanding merit was not the realism that
gave vigor to his work, nor the beauty that
informed it, nor his graphic portraits of
seafaring men, nor his poetic descriptions
of salty marshes, of storm and calm and
of nestling hamlets; it was his longevity.
Reverence for old age is one of the most
admirable traits of the human race, and I
think that it may be safely stated that in
no other country than ours is this trait
more marked....At 75 everyone agreed
that Edward Driffield had genius. At 80
he was the Grand Old Man of English
letters. This position he held till his death.
Though Hardy did write Under the
Greenwood Tree and The Dynasts, no
doubt there remains a grain of truth in
all this — a grain that may taste a little
uncomfortably now that Maugham him-
self has strong claims to the chair of the
Grand Old Man—but one could hardly
say that “the sense of disapproval” was
altogether left out of it. There are kinds
of disapproval other than the merely
moral.
Of moral disapproval there is certainly
none in Maugham’s novels ; neither for
sex nor for scoundrelism. Its absence, or
rather Maugham’s corresponding matur-
ity of mind, is one of the principal attrac-
tions one finds in re-reading him, and,
along with the limpidity of his narrative
style, is the secret of his success, both
from the literary and popular viewpoints.
You can be quite sure, picking up any
novel by Somerset Maugham, that the
author is not, like Thackeray, going to
be shocked at what he has made his own
characters do ; that it is understood, be-
tween men of the world, that sex exists,
that duplicity is practised, and that the
world is a pretty naughty place. You can
also be sure that word will follow word
with a beautiful clarity and simplicity,
with a sting of acid conviction, with the
depth of long meditation on the complex-
ity of human motives so that, even when
the novels are poorly constructed, as
often they are (the first-person method
allows much :sleight-of h elevan t or
even when the thoug tbe
barely relevant to the; a ‘°^ e J ,ke w " d
literary criticism o Y, Qrt tQ
seems to count, it is
isqSii? teistndid. He is one of’the
very few contemporary novelists to realise
that the firs, requisite in the story-tellers
ar Yet dSpite his tolerance he does
not exactly as Dr. Saunders says he
does “augh” at the frailties of man-
and There is nothing of Rabelais m
Sm nothing of Maupassant's delight
in women, Stendhal's impassioned fas-
dilation Chevallier's laugh.ng tender-
ness A curious impression one receives,
S going through several of the novels.
b tha* many of them were written for
no other reason than to expose some
frailty of women. Cakes and Ale seems
largely to have been designed to make
the one simple point that, the night her
child dies, a woman might be so dts-
tressed that she will go out and take a
lover. The Painted Veil (hardly a credible
tale when the erring wife consents to go
into the cholera-country, knowing that
her husband means to murder her) makes
the point that a woman who has once
yielded to a lover may, in spite of the
most sincere repentance, yield again when
the circumstances are propitious. The
Moon and Sixpence tells us that a wife
may leave a tame, adoring husband, who
has rescued her from the gutter, because
she cannot bear the smothering sense of
obligation to him. Theatre is a little too
obvious to be readable in its simple situ-
ation of the ageing actress, the complacent
husband and the ambitious young man.
The Narrow Corner announces that, out
of caprice or momentary fascination, a
girl bored with the homage of her fiance
will give herself to the first stranger who
happens along
All these seem, when one has read the
novels one after another, very small points
on which to build books of some 80,000
words; they seem hardly more than
curiosities from the divorce court. They
have the flavor not so much of art as of
scandal. And though it cannot be said
that Maugham disapproves of women it
seems clear, under his mask of cynical
tolerance, that, with exceptions, he dis-
likes them
One other unfavorable aspect of his
writing which, along with virtues of
exceptionally easy narration, becomes
apparent in a reading of these Heinemann
selections is the extfemely harmful effect
which the writing of popular plays has
often had on Maugham’s fiction,
A great deal of shoddy can get bv
the stage; the quickness of the to n Z
deceives the eye. A cheap joke, custard
pie, an absolute impossibility of chaVa
terisation—the actor can put it all ov f'
Even in the best plays it is accepted as a
necessary convention that the action mav
be more mechanical, more artificial than
in a novel. In fiction we expect to read
the truth about life; in a play We
such an image or distillation of the truth
as may be confined in the box of the
stage.
Nobody but a playwright would ever
have opened a novel with the stage-scene
Maugham contrives in The Painted Veil
the husband prowling about the veranda’
trying the lock of the door, while the
lovers lurk dismayed in the bedroom
Nobody but a playwright much accus-
tomed to the old tricks of the stage and
to writing-down for his audience, would
have inflicted on the old sea-dog of The
Narrow Corner his “comic” indigestion
utterly out of character, so that chapter
after chapter may finish, like a scene get-
ting its curtain on a laugh, with a cheap
joke about it. And if it hardly seems
like stage technique to have turned
Gauguin into the impossible figure of an
English stockbroker in The Moon and
Sixpence —no doubt it was done merely
to avoid identification with the French
painter—it was, nevertheless, a surrender
to the same kind of artistic trickery,
Strickland, a dummy who never says
anything except “Go to hell!”, is quite
as unreal and mechanical in his savagery
as is Captain Nichols in his comic
dyspepsia.
In the combination of their essential
slightness of plot—the minute exposure
of femininity on which most of them
rest—and this frequent unreliability of
characterisation, the novels under review
seem on the whole light and evanescent;
a superior “magazine” fiction, mature,
polished, but written without any pro-
found conviction of its own validity.
They are novels which have served their
generation well as entertainment but they
have neither the richness of Maupassant
nor the stability of Conrad—two writers
in whose territories of love and the South
Seas most of them must try to find their
place.
Of Human Bondage is so very different
a kettle of fish that one hopes the pub-
lishers, if they do not intend to add it
to the present selection, will not allow
it to remain out of print too long. In
size alone it is three times as massive
as any of the novels in the selection;
and it seems three times as sincere.
Maugham says of it,-in his delightful
preface to the 1915 Heinemann edition,
“I can hardly tell what is fancy and
what is fact” ; arid the scenes of child-
hood in the vicarage where the uncle ate
his boiled eggs with such relish, of youth
in the art schools in Paris and later youth
in London lodgings are painted with the
deep, nostalgic feeling of intimate experi-
ence, with a profound awareness of people
and places such as no writer can hope
to pick up in casual travel about the
world. There is an intensity, a conviction,
in the portraits of the four women—the
ageing beauty who first seduces young
Philip ; the horrible Miss Price who
adores him in Paris; the mean-souled
little London waitress to whom he is so
fatally bound in desire and loathing;
the estimable Norah to whom he turns
for comfort—that makes them memor-
able as persons, whereas the later women
(with the possible exception of Rosie
Driffield) are merely noticeable for what
they do.
Weighty, a little gloomy, semi-auto-
biographical, a complete and sensitive
portrait of youth, it is in the category,
though without Dickens’s bubbling gusto,
of Great Expectations and David Copper-
field, and one has no doubt whatever that
this is the novel by which Maugham will
live.-
D.S.
VARIOUS VERSE
DEATH OF A WHALE
When the mouse died, there was a sort
of pity:
The tiny, delicate creature made for grief.
Yesterday, instead, the dead whale on the
reef
Drew an excited multitude to the jetty.
How must a whale die to wring a tear?
Lugubrious death of a whale; the big
Feast for the gulls and sharks; the tug
Of the tide simulating life still there,
Until the air, polluted, swings this way
Like a door ajar from a slaughterhouse.
Pooh! pooh! spare us, give us the death of
a mouse
By its tiny hole; not this in our lovely bay.
—Sorry, we are, too, when a child dies;
But at the immolation of a race, who cries?
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
A HUSBAND’S STRATAGEM
An ill-fed husband bought a book
On how fastidious Frenchmen cook.
Took home a demijohn of wine
And told hia wife of his design
To marinate their meat; but when
He sat at dinner once again
The steak had still no vinous flavor.
He spoke about its lack of savor.
His wife said, “Gertrude chanced to call;
I mentioned wine; we drank it all.”
He let no argument occur,
And while she slept, he murdered her.
But did not speak of what he’d done
Until the ensuing afternoon,
When, with a feeling of unease,
He telephoned to the police.
They came while still the scent was fresh.
They said, “You like your pound of flesh!”
He said, “As I before have stated
I wished to have it marinated,
And being somewhat single-minded
I take my good thing where I find it.
It is not often in one’s life
One dines on marinated wife;
The meal, however, made me ill:
Can you oblige me with a pill?
I should have known how it would be—
My wife has disagreed with me.”
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
BEGINNINGS
Not to have known the hard-bitten,
tight-lipped Ceesar
clamped down on savage Britain;
or, coming closer,
not to have watched Cook
drawing thin lines across
the last sea’s uncut book
is my own certain loss;
as too is having come late,
the other side of the dark
from that bearded, sedate
Hargrave of Stanwell Park,
and so to have missed, some bright
morning, in the salty, stiff
north-easter, a crank with a kite—•
steadied above the cliff.
Beginnings, once known,
are lost. Perpetual day,
wheeling, has grown
each year further away
from the original strength
of any action or mind,
used, and at length
fallen behind.
One might give much
to bring near at hand
for sight and touch
cities under the sand,
and the talk and trade
of the plain folk met
could we walk with the first who made
an alphabet;
but more than to look back
we choose this day’s concern
with everything in the track,
and would give most to learn
outcomes of all we found
and what next builds to the stars.
I regret I shall not be around
to stand on Mars.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Wildflowers of the West
Everybody knows that Westralian
wildflowers are the loveliest in Australia,
and though How to Know Western Aus-
tralian Wildflowers by W. E. Blackal
(University of W.A. Press) is of m° re
practical use in its own State than any-
where else, it is a pleasure, even m
N. S. Wales, to dip into it.
Only, it must be said, rather a g rl
pleasure, since the illustrations are color
photographs with funereal black nac -


TRUTH in ADVERTIS1N
dsf
ds
• \ .7.
11l / I
II 1 1
m\
(Vi
\
V
///
I I I I
1 i.rsu,\
Hi.
\
'■; n- -
I
H
s
>l/1
:-■/ -j
7/Ml
*
V
>
r. -
w
r/ / /
5%
7/1
/
\
<■/'
MI
n
%
W\\
n
\\
i
%
'ft'
f4\
1
S<V
//
.Mr
x:
w 1 'i'll 1
• /jWi,
7/1
*22
33
/,
Hiiitt*
'ii.'
WAM 1
»
m
m
i
i
«#■
v\
v-.
U
A
tffi
Vtl
Ai
? '
iA\
&
-v-^t
<£.
//&
A 'Jr>
UvV
m
fig*
rmif)
A Cordial Invitation to visit
OUR SHOW PAVILION
A visit to Anthony Horderns’ Pavilion has become one of the traditions of Sydney’s Royal Easter Show. If you’re a man on
the land, you’ll find displayed the latest developments in agricultural machinery—showing you how to minimise work and boost
production. If you’re a housewife, you can come and see the newest trends in our Contemporary Furnishings and the host of
labour saving devices for the home. There’ll be something there, in fact, to interest everyone paints, blinds, sporting goods,
guns and fishing tackle. . . .Consult our experts about your problems, they’ll be happy to advise you. Remember, you haven’t
seen the Show till you’ve seen Anthony Horderns’ vast Show Pavilion.
Auditions for Australia’s Amateur Hour
will be held at 10.30 a.m. daily in Anthony Horderns’ Pavilion at the Showground from Monday, April
12th to Wednesday, 21st inclusive. Terry Dear will be there in person. So, if you wish to compete in the
Australia-wide 2GB Amateur Hour just come along directly to Anthony Horderns’ Pavilion at the
Showground or ring 8X2711 for an appointment.
TERRY DEAR, DIRECTOR OF AUSTRALIA’S AMATEUR HOUR
\
. >#
fit you're down for the Show,
Anthony Horderns' for breakfast
to
Did you know Anthony Horderns* now
opens at 8.30? City and country cus-
tomers alike are invited to have breakfast
any morning in our Dining Room.
8.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
*B5
ANTHONY HORDERNS’, BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. M 2401


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 7, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3869
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
REFORMING THE CONSTITUTION
Sir John Latham’s suggestion that the Federal Govern-
ment and Opposition parties should form a committee
to plan amendments of the Constitution, that amend-
ments decided on should be put before a special
conference of State Premiers and the result submitted
at a Federal referendum seems to be scarcely practical
politics.
Heaven alone knows that the Constitution needs
amendment. It cries out for it. But that a conference
of the Government and Opposition should agree on
anything but an awkwafd compromise or that a con-
ference of State Premiers should produce anything but
a distillation of the “Labor” platform (Playford dis-
agreeing) looks to be outside the realm of nature.
The Federal Opposition, of course, could go into
the discussion only on a string held at the working end
by the Federal A.L.P. Executive, to which it would
turn at intervals for orders. And, in any case, that
it should discuss the matter except tongue-in-cheek
would be impossible. In front of its eyes all the time
during the debate would be the planks of the “Labor”
platform. It would run a mile if it were asked to
implement them, and a mile in the other direction if it
were asked to repudiate them openly of the
Senate, reduction of the States, to the position of helot
provinces living exclusively on the charity of Canberra
and a dozen other inconvenient aspirations are
embodied in the platform along with socialisation of
industry.
And none of these things “Labor” ever wishes to
hear mentioned again, though it doesn’t dare to heave
them off the end of a wharf in a sugar-bag, even on a
dark night, since that would offend the militants and
Communists who hold the balance-of-power among
the great unions which form the corpus of the so-
called “Labor movement.”
What a reception the idea of reducing the States
to provinces—Mr. Calwell’s pet Constitutional plan—
would have from Messrs. Cahill, Cain and Gair! What
pleasure at proposed Senate reform or abolition would
be expressed by the deadbeats of higher unionism
who have come to look on a seat in the Senate as a
perquisite equal to a knighthood in Liberal circles, but
more profitable! How delightedly the industrial
regional councils would regard a carving-up of the
country into small areas which, because of its nature
and spread of population, would almost certainly
divest the cities of their control over rural districts
now chained to them in the overgrown States. And
what a lovely dogfight there would be over
the whole business—Dr. Evatt loading the
initial conference with a 14-point plan taken
out of the Russian Constitution, like his essay
in reform of 1944; Mr. Calwell seeking to
put into operation the doctrine which he has so often
voiced that measures should be taken by the “Labor”
party to see that next time it goes into power it does
it permanently. And there would be a dozen manly
hearts devoted to the task of pretending to work for
the Socialist State while assuring that its structure
should not emerge from reform, lest “Labor” in power
might in time be presented with a situation like that
which arose out of its attempts to nationalise the banks
in 1947.
To expect either clear thinking or honest effort
in reform from the men who put forward the Senate
proportional-representation plan of 1949 with the
deliberate intention of embarrassing the new Liberal
Government, which they believed would secure office
after the election, would be altogether too much. And
though a committee and Premiers’ conference might,
as suggested by Sir John, produce “valuable results,”
they would be mostly in the nature of the revelation
of the difficulties and frustrations of Constitution-
makers in a country where everything has a party
angle and nobody seems capable of thinking in
national terms, outside the Prime Minister and a few
elder statesmen of the Latham calibre, The conference,
in fact, would produce nothing but a conviction that
any attempt to reform the Constitution and to
modernise it must come from one party or group of
parties and that whatever that group does will be
opposed by the other party or parties.
At the same time it is imperative that an attempt
should be made as early as possible. The Constitution
is becoming steadily more unworkable every day,
largely because of electoral gerrymandering and mani-
pulation. The situation is Gilbertian enough in the
Federal Parliament, where, by the use of two kinds
of systems of election, the same electors on the same
days can conceivably produce opposite results in two
separate Houses. It must be even more confusing to
the political students of mature countries that the
same rolls of electors can produce entirely different
results in State and Federal elections, so that Australia
can return an overwhelming majority of supporters
for a Federal Liberal-C.P. coalition while giving power
in five out of six States to “Labor.”
The system is incapable of smooth working, or
even sane working. It can only continue to produce
pull-devil-pull-baker government in which the most
dynamic element is, and always will be, the greedy,
politically unscrupulous Premiers of the type of Cahill,
bent on squeezing the limit of subsidy and tax out of the
Federal Government to devote to the task of buying
votes to defeat that Government. It must continue
to maintain in office irresponsible State Governments
whose “sovereign” powers allow them to thwart
national defence plans and national constructive
policies in the interests of bribery of the congested
populations of cluttered industrial corners of the
continent from which they draw their strength.
The only possible method of proceeding seems
to be for the Federal Government to summon a con-
vention at which not only political parties but every
interest and region of the Commonwealth has able
representation, the result of the discussion being sifted
into coherent form and submitted to the electors
through referendum. It might take a long time to
thrash the matter out, but it would be worth a year or
two of delay to have the job done properly.
Counting the Heads
When on the night of June 30 heads of households
all over Australia grumble at the red-tapery that
requires them to supply information for the Fifth
Commonwealth Census they will be following a tradi-
tion that goes far back into history. According to
Biblical record, Moses twice conducted a census of
the Chosen People. The first was for the purpose
of a poll-tax, so it is not likely to have been a popular
move ; and the second was to ascertain the military
strength of the nation —“all that were able to go forth
to war” —as was the census ordered by David against
the advice of Joab, the captain he detailed for the job.
Apparently the Deity didn’t approve of David’s
move either, because “there fell for it wrath against
Israel,” as a result of which Joab resigned his task
after nine months and 20 days of counting This
year’s census staff wili be expected to finish the job
of collecting the completed census-papers in much
shorter time than that.
The reason for the Divine wrath is not very
clear, but it is noteworthy that in Rome, too, although
census-taking was elaborately organised and the
numbering was done every five years, there seems to
have been a feeling that there was something just a
little bit unsavory about it, and the conclusion of
each census period was celebrated with purification
ceremonies.
But the census has a much older history than that.
Egypt had officials going around “taking down parti-
culars” as early as 3000 b.c., and China about the
same time. In Babylonia, using clay tablets that have
been preserved intact to the present day, the Records
Office was in full operation earlier still.
After the fall of Rome the census seems to have
fallen into disrepute, and, except for isolated efforts
such as the Domesday Book, there was no attempt at
accurate enumeration until comparatively recent times.
England’s first regular census was taken in 1801. Half
a century earlier a bill for the purpose had been
defeated, one enlightened member of the Commons
expressing the fear that a counting of the people might
be followed by “some great public misfortune or
epidemic distemper.” He may, of course, have been
impelled by motives similar to those that led Mr.
Ward’s friends to scrawl “Ban National Register” on
walls and fences in 1940, but if he was in earnest the
history of the censuses which have been held in Eng-
land every 10 years since 1801 has not borne out his
fears.
Australia’s first reckoning was made shortly after
the arrival of the First Fleet, and there were frequent
“musters” during the early years of New South Wales;
but the first count that could really be called a census
was taken in 1828, when the population was found to
be 36,598, exclusive of the military personnel, about
1400, and an estimated 2000 made up of “runaway
convicts in the bush” and other persons without fixed
abode.
After 1828 censuses were fairly frequent in N. S.
Wales, and in the other colonies, too, as these were
founded, and gradually there was a move towards co-
operation in carrying out the task. In 1861 five of the
colonies —Westralia was the abstainer —conducted a
census simultaneously, and from then on they moved
steadily towards co-ordination of census periods and
uniformity of returns.
Information sought in the 1828 census included
details of name, age-group (under or over 12), sex and
civil condition —free, pardoned, ticket-of-leave, serving
convict and so on—also particulars of horses, cattle,
sheep, land cleared and cultivated. By 1841 the age-
groups asked for were more numerous; it was no
longer compulsory to state whether a person was bond
or free ; religious denominations were given recogni-
tion ; professions and callings were enumerated and
particulars of dwellings asked for. With each subse-
quent check the census-form got closer to the one
which is now being prepared for use next June. The
last State censuses were conducted in March, 1901;
since then the Commonwealth has been the census-
taker.
It was the intention of the Commonwealth to
continue the decennial census. Enumerations were
made in 1911 and 1921, but by the time the next one
was due the economic depression was at its worst, so
on the score of economy the count was postponed
until 1933. The regular round would probably have
been resumed in 1941, but World War II stopped that,
and also the continuation of a new 10-year period in
1943. It was not until 1947 that the Fourth Common-
wealth Census was conducted, so that since 1921 the
intercensal periods have been 12, 14 and seven
years respectively. Possibly the opportunity will be
taken of slipping back into the old cycle by scheduling
the next census for 1961.
Although, unlike the head-counting of Biblical
days, the modern census is not used directly for
either taxation or military purposes, it is a very
necessary instrument of government, and is almost an
essential of any successful forward planning. Even
more vital than the absolute figures recorded in an
individual census are the trends revealed by a study
of successive enumerations. These enable Treasurers
to assess, for example, their likely commitments for
age-pensions, child-endowment and other social
services and additional educational facilities which
may be required a few years ahead. Defence-chiefs
are given a picture of the manpower available for the
services, and the electoral authorities are required by
the Commonwealth Constitution to adjust the member-
ship of the House of Representatives in accordance
with changes in the population as recorded in the
census. The voluminous tables prepared by the Com-
monwealth Statistician are also available for research
by sociologists and experts of private industry.
The most arresting trends revealed by the censuses
between 1901 and 1947 are the drift from country to
city which has accompanied the increasing industrialisa-
tion of Australia, and the changes in the occupations
of women. In 1901 38.7 per cent, of the people lived in
the metropolitan areas; in 1947 the figure was 50.7
per cent. Over that period the percentage of persons
engaged in primary industry fell from 32.9 to 17.6,
while the corresponding figures for manufacturing
employees rose from 16.8 per cent, to 28.7 per cent.
In 1901 the biggest field of female employment was
“Personal and domestic service,” with 46.4 per cent.;
at the last census this figure was down to 18.2 per cent.,
while “manufacturing and commerce” had jumped
from 33.3 per cent, to 51.9 per cent.
The most interesting features of the coming census
will be those reflecting the post-war influx of migrants,
the growth of new industries and the redistribution
of population caused by it.
Australia's Farewell to the Queen
She came at Summer’s end and brought the Spring.
But now it is farewell to magic days.
The book is closed, the great adventure told,
(A book of brilliant pictures writ in gold)
But still we live it through, remembering.
The arches are tom down, the bunting roiled;
The shouts that shook the continent, the cheers,
That rang from Perth to Townsville, hushed by tears,
But happy tears, aglint with thanks and praise.
We shall remember her, our Queen,
Retentive eyes will drop a silken screen,
Casting her form upon the well-known scene.
’Twas here she floated all in filmy white,
And on this balcony out-starred the night;
On these grey steps she spoke that charming phrase.
We shall remember her, our Queen.
Where she has stood, a tree shall rise,
To lift her message to the skies,
And whisper with each passing breath,
“Elizabeth.”
There will be talk, while there are ships and seas,
Of Gothic and the tiny boats, the large.
That gathered in the early-morning breeze
To form a laneway for the Royal barge;
And that great moment, when there came a shout,
And sun, and flags and .gunfire all broke out.
A Melbourne busman, while the lights are red,
Will think: “She came this way,” and lift his head.
He will remember her, our Queen.
Stopping his fellow cloud of dust, a drover,
Hearing a whirr of wings in warm, blue sky,
Will watch an arrowhead of swans thrust by,
And tell his dog: “One day the Queen flew over.”
Old gardeners will sit and talk for hours
Of how they grew the best and rarest flowers
To make a setting for their Queen.
While those who make and guard the laws
Will sometimes catch their breath, and pause.
Seeing her quiet dignity
And majesty.
The children all who yelled along the way
And waved their flags, seeing her warm, young smile,
Dark-skinned from reefs where coral-flowers sway,
Or rosy-cheeked where winds blow from the snow,
Dusty along Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile,
Sturdy behind prize rams at Dubbo Show,
Or purple-fingered where the grapevines cling,
All will stand up so proudly now to sing
“God Save Our Gracious Queen!”
Farewell, young Queen! A happy, safe return!
But you will come again, remembering how
We knew and loved you always, though unseen,
So how much greater our affection now!
Farewell, but come back soon, and you will learn
We are a closer-welded nation,
Through having shared one exaltation,
One loyalty, one proud belief.
And now, one grief.
We shall remember you, our Queen!
N.S.W.
AGNES MILLROSE.


THE NEW ATLAS
(Second Year)


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Indiarubber Man
N. S. Wales and Federal “Labor” poli-
ticians are devoutly hoping that the resig-
nation of Mr. Clive Evatt will be the
end of a political phase; but they may
be wrong.
Neither Clive Evatt nor his brother,
the Doctor, is likely to take ignominy
lying down. Clive clung to office with
the tenacity of a centipede and resigned
only by way of a farewell shout as
Premier Cahill impelled him to the end
of the plank he was being made to walk.
Clive Evatt has been in the State Par-
liament since March, 1939, when he
entered it as a member of the Heffron
party. He was a Duntroon graduate ;
the Commonwealth gave him a free edu-
cation at the college. But the value of his
military training was never put to a
practical test.
The Communist party seemed over-
joyed when he joined the Heffron band,
for which, about that time, Mr. J. A.
Beasley said that he saw “carloads of
Communists” working at general-election
time. The “Tribune” declared joyfully
that:
Evatt is receiving: enthusiastic support
.... scores of organisations throughout
Australia have sent congratulations on
his candidature.
With the entry of his big brother into
Federal politics he became immovable
and indestructible —the rubber-man of
N. S.'Wales State politics, who seemed
to be at liberty to belong to fellow-
traveller organisations and to commit
any inanity without fear of consequences.
He broke with the Heffron section when
it suited him and tied himself to Mr.
McKell, who gave him an opportunity to
revolutionise N. S. Wales education,
which acquired more than a certain
Leftist leaning during his period of office.
Mr. McKell saved him when his “call-
me-uncle” antics at a school at New-
castle and his removal of disciplinary
bonds from the management of the Girls’
Reformatory at Parramatta made him a
liability,
Clive Evatt has been in continual trouble
with the A.L.P, over his associations.
On November 7, 1947, according to
the “Australian Slavonic Review,” he
attended a celebration of the anniversary
of the Russian revolution and said;
For economic stability, the high
standard of living and general contentment
of the Russian people, the Russian Gov-
ernment deserves great commendation.
But the Fascists abuse and slander Russia.
The Fascists are afraid and distressed
....so they falsely accuse Russia of war-
like preparations. Slanderous attacks on
Russia today are strategic smoke-screens.
“Russia and Australia” were linked in
the view that the Dutch must withdraw
from Indonesia ; and then: “In Russia
Fascism is dead. Let it perish in Aus-
tralia and the rest of the world. Let us
congratulate Russian democracy.”
Eight months after this was reported the
A.L.P, Executive was compelled to order
Clive out of the presidency of the Austra-
lian-Russian Society which had
been declared a Communist organisa-
tion. And it is only a few months ago
that his eminent brother in Canberra was
placed in an awkward position through
Clive’s association with the Peace Commit-
tee which was concerned in forwarding
the Peking Peace Conference, attended
by Dr. Burton and a gaggle of Australian
Communists ; but it did Clive no more
harm than his war-time assertion that
he was against sending troops overseas
—an assertion at a meeting which the
“Tribune” hailed as “a triumph for an
army of workers led by Mr. Norman
Jeffrey [i.e., a member of the State com-
mittee of the Communist party] and the
joint secretaries Messrs. R. W. King and
W. Evans.”
It remains to be seen whether Clive
Evatt still has bounce in him. His fol-
lowers seem to hope that by turning the
debate about his dismissal on a sectarian
issue he may emerge triumphant as a
paladin of Protestantism. But he will be
hard put to it to play this card, and
even if he does a man who has said on
the eve of a Federal election that he
believes that Australia’s defence expendi-
ture of the past five years has been
“squandered,” as he did a few days ago,
is a party liability at the moment.
There is a rumor that Mr. Cahill intends
to appoint the ejected Minister to the
Supreme Court Bench after the Federal
elections. Even the long-suffering N. S.
Wales Bar would be likely to protest
against that.
Buying Councillors for Cosh
Ever since the New South Wales
“Labor” Government began to put into
effect its plan for compulsory voting at
municipal elections, accompanied by the
extinction of old-established municipali-
ties with a long record of civic service and
their replacement by overgrown Greater
Thises-and-Thats, it has been obvious
that the real purpose of the move was
not to secure greater efficiency, but to
make the path to Socialism wider and
easier.
Compulsory voting, besides introducing
a system of representation without taxa-
tion, has taken the “local” out of local-
government and substituted party politics,
with the tendency, wherever “Labor”
has been successful in gaining control of
a council, to make municipal manage-
ment part and parcel of the Trades
Hall machine and an instrument of
socialisation.
It seems that the A.L.P. has now
decided that the time is ripe for introduc-
ing the second part of its municipal policy
—the jobs-for-the-boys principle, never
long overlooked in any “Labor” scheme
of progress. In this case the move is for
payment of aldermen and councillors.
Minister for Local Government Ren-
shaw has been questioned about it several
times lately, and his answers leave little
doubt that a bill for this purpose will be
brought down later in the year. His com-
ment at present is that he is himself in
favor, but has asked the Local Govern-
ment Association for its views. Past
experience of the Cahill Government’s
regards for the views of local-governing
bodies when they conflicted with its own
suggest that the request is merely a for-
mality. Policy has already been deter-
mined.
In answer to a question in the Assem-
bly last week, Mr. Renshaw said that the
Government wanted the best men pos-
sible for local-government and that
whether they would be paid was “still a
matter for determination”:
Of recent years there have been rapid
developments in country councils, and men
have had to give up many days of work and
travel for many miles to do this work. —I
believe we must not have a man in the
position that he must forgo his income to
do that work.
The Minister said that if the Govern-
ment introduced payment for services it
would be left to each council to decide
whether or not to take advantage of the
legislation. This is a stroke of genius,
even for a “Labor” thinker. The councils
most likely to take advantage of the new
law would be those in which the spirit
of service was at lowest ebb and among
those who believe that voluntary work in
any cause is degrading. In other words,
in “Labor”-dominated councils. These,
mainly city and suburban, would hardly
be covered by the Minister’s plea of
“miles of travel,” and in some at least the
weight of the paid staff is already a cause
of complaint among ratepayers.
If Mr, Renshaw likes to climb up into
the Sydney Town Hall tower, gaze to
the west and south and take a deep sniff
he will sample some of the fruits of intro-
ducing party-men into municipal affairs.
If the full policy of job-for-the-boys is
brought in the stench will be unbearable.
Communism Moves South
The position in Indo-China represents
something which calls more urgently for
attention from people of the West than
does the H-bomb —a weapon which will
be used by any nation with trepidation
and only in direst need.
What the threat of the bomb is not
capable of doing is being demonstrated in
Indo-China. There the satellite troops of
the Soviet Union, under political and
military leaders trained in Moscow, are
going straight ahead with the conquest
of Eastern Asia along the Russian-
Chinese-Communist road to Malaya,
Indonesia, Burma, Borneo, the Philip-
pines and Australia.
On the other side of Asia they are
going forward with the job of bullying
all nations adjacent to the Soviet Union
borders so that they may fear to share in
their own mutual defence and instead sit
down helpless waiting to be swallowed
during any Russian march on Suez and
India which might take place.
Until a few weeks ago the French
seemed full of optimism about the Indo-
Chinese position ; but they can now no
longer conceal their plight there. The
defence of Dienbienphu has been ren-
dered difficult because the rebels have
acquired quantities of Russian arms, in-
cluding sufficient high-altitude ack-ack
guns to surround the beleaguered fortress
with a curtain of fire which aircraft
flying-in French supplies have found
difficult to penetrate. /
The Communists have now got con-
trol of nearly all Vietnam, except a small
coastal enclave round Hanoi and a
narrow coastal strip near Hue. They have
cut Laos in halves and isolated the capi-
tal from the sea. They have begun to
drive into Cambodia, and their resources
seem to grow with time in a most re-
markable way. There is little doubt that
it is Russia’s war and that the so-called
rebels are only pawns, just as the North
Koreans were pawns on the other side of
the China Sea.
The sending of Lieutenant-General
M’Daniel, C.-in-C. Hawaii, and formerly
in command of the Iron Corps (to which
the Australians belonged) in Korea, as
head of the United States Military mis-
sion in Indo-China underlines the serious-
ness of the call issued by Mr. Dulles for
united action to keep South-east Asia free
of Communism. It lends importance to
the conference of Pacific Powers Ambas-
sadors with Mr. Dulles and substance to
the rumor that great things are moving in
a military way to stop the southward
advance of Communism in its tracks.
France’s attitude on defence is con-
fused, and there is real talk of a peace
treaty in Asia, a matter for ominous
cogitation in view of the teetering policy
of the French Government on European
defence. “The Times” Paris correspon-
dent last week wrote that “each day
seems to add something to the atmos-
phere of confusion and dismay which the
still-unratified European Defence Com-
munity treaty is infusing into French
internal and external affairs.”
The dismissal of Marshal Juin, com-
mander of the Nato Central Euro-
pean Force, from his French military posts
following a speech in which he called for
an alternative to the European Defence
Community is a pointer to the country’s
vacillation.
It seems certain that the Geneva con-
ference will be over before the debate on
the E.D.C. takes place in the French
Assembly, and there seems also no doubt
that the overtures of Moscow to the West
and the Kremlin’s offer to join the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation as a party
to a security pact for all European States
and the United States is part of the
blandishments with which Moscow is
seeking to woo France away from her
allies.
It is announced that the U.S., Britain
and France will consult about this strange
tongue-in-cheek offer. No doubt during
the discussions they will discover against
whom the pact of defence is to operate
with Russia in the fold —whether the
scheme is directed to protect the great
nations of Europe against San Marino or
Andorra. On the face of it the offer
looks like a clumsy move towards giving
Russia a free hand in Asia and a counter
to recent statements by President Eisen-
hower and* Mr. Dulles aimed towards
replacing piecemeal policies with world
policies of defence against Communism.
National Theatre
If the aspirations of the organisers are
realised, Australia’s struggling theatre
will have good cause to remember the
Royal Progress.
A movement headed by Mr. R. J.
Boyer, of the A.8.C., Dr. H. C. Coombs,
governor of the Commonwealth Bank,
Messrs. Warwick Fairfax and J. N. Kirby
and Sir Daniel McVey has begun to
organise the Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust Fund with support remark-
able in a country in which this sort of
enterprise has hitherto not unearthed
many fairy-godfathers.
Up to March 30 it has found 42 spon-
sors who had each given £5OO or more,
the majority £lOOO. These include banks,
public companies, newspaper-proprie-
taries, several individuals and the Labor
Council of N. S. Wales, representing the
State’s unions. Already nearly £40,000 is
in hand. The aim is a minimum of
£lOO,OOO to be used to “make the theatre
in Australia the same vigorous and sig-
nificant force in national life that it was
in England during the reign of Elizabeth
I.”
It is proposed to help companies cap-
able of presenting drama, opera and bal-
let of high artistic standard, particularly
those which seem to have a chance of
becoming self-supporting, and those cal-
culated to further the objective of estab-
lishing a native drama, opera and ballet
which will give regular employment to a
school of Australian theatricals and open
new opportunities for Australian writers,
composers and artists whose creative work
is related to the theatre.
It is also intended to bring to the
country companies of international rank
and individual Australians and others
who have achieved world status in the
theatrical world.
Especially since both sides of the
Federal Parliament are in full sympathy
with the scheme and donations to the
fund will be treated as deductions for
income-tax purposes, the money should
be easy enough to raise, and the only
criticism that might be levelled at the
proposal is that it is too modest in its
financial ambitions.
Australians have become more theatri-
cal- and musical-minded, and the imme-
diate objective of the organisers is one
which should be attained in a matter of
weeks when all the States have had a
chance to make their contribution.
At present donations seem to have been
confined to the givers of substantial
amounts, but this is a fund which touches
everybody right down to schoolchildren
with pennies. And if it is to be a real
national memorial to the coming of the
Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh it
will need to have the active support of
a very widespread section of the inter-
ested community—people who will find
pleasure in the assurance that they have
made it their own movement by con-
tributing.
To do the job properly will certainly
call for much more than £lOO,OOO. Dona-
tions can be sent to the Australian Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust, Box 2719, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Postal Votes
All political parties are paying consider-
able attention to postal voting for the
Federal election next month. Active can-
vassing for postal votes is forbidden by
law, but there is no penalty for telling
people how to go about getting a postal
vote, and the problem of party organisers
is to convey this information to as many
likely supporters as possible, with par-
ticular emphasis, of course, on those who
will be away from home on election-day.
The postal vote is not designed as a
lazy man’s substitute for going to the
polling-booth. It is available only for
those who really need it. Persons who
will be outside their home State on polling-
day may apply for a postal vote. So may
people who are in their home State, pro-
vided one of the following conditions
applies to them:
They will not be within 5 miles of a
polling-booth on polling-day.
They will be travelling under conditions
which will not permit them to visit a polling-
booth. -
They are seriously ill or are approaching
maternity.
Procedure for recording a postal vote
is quite simple. Anyone covered by one
of the four qualifications mentioned
above may obtain an application-form at
any post-office, divisional returning-
office or party committee-room. When
this has been filled-in and witnessed by
another elector it is handed or posted to
a divisional returning-officer who then
hands or posts the ballot-papers to the
voter.
After close of nominations on May 6
it will be simpler still; electors may then
call at a divisional returning-office, fill-
in an application-form, obtain the voting-
papers and vote there and then. Those
unable to do so may, of course, still apply
by post.
There is a tendency, even among those
who consistently record their vote when
at home, to ignore the postal-voting facili-
ties when away on election-day. Die
tendency is to feel that one vote isn’t im-
portant. The party-organisers don’t share
that feeling. They know that in a closely-
contested electorate postal votes may well
decide the result.
Tax Facts
From London: “Pay As You Earn,” the
system whereby the employe; nets as tax-
computer and collector, has just passed
its tenth birthday. The immediate effici-
ency of its v i g was due to the publi,
mindedness c Ji actuary who
with punch; u*d accounting, seat
draft outline procedure to the Inland
Revenue.
Though t has been no movement
to recognh is useful service s by
public sub; ion, P.A./.E., which
affects nine . of every ten workers, L
worked smoo y and fairly and it has
come to sta \ ft is comforting, to
those who u*d income-tax with the
same unspeak ible distaste as -hey cc me
H-bomb, to learn that American experts
speak with admiration of our system
The Americ; ns (according to LS, News
and World 1 'port ) hke our way of tak-
ing dividenc at source, and the Inland
Revenue m< ‘hod of computing the tax
instead of 1c .ving it to the in-
dividual They also envy Britain s
absence of capital-gams . .
A very t“eS (h“e
the nature of Ah- - A • jf
taxation pru. J *' be a , coinnam
the lawyer. ••• , f , ts:
Does this mean ! '
(Con «


we negotiate and compromise while the
Americans protest and litigate? At all
events they admire the mutual trust and
understanding that subsist between
Revenue and accountant and between
accountant and client. They are amazed
that there is no tax court in Britain and
that there should be as few as 45 prose-
cutions in one year.
The low cost of tax-collection (just over
1 per cent, of receipts) is also commended.
“Death-bed” fanning and gifts inter vivos 1
are briefly mentioned as devices of the
rich to avoid estate duty. And the Ameri-
cans are astonished to find that only 36
men had net incomes of over £6OOO a
year. But they realise that this figure is
misleading. The bases for high-living”
are simple and apparent, depending upon
capital-gains and expenses-allowances.
POLITICAL POINTS
Still clutching desperately for an
election-winner, the Doc. has grabbed
the hydrogen-bomb. On Sunday night he
made a radio promise that if “Labor”
won the election he would take instant
action for the control of the bomb by
initiating a special meeting of the General
Assembly. It’s a terrible thought for
Menzies and Casey that the only thing
that is preventing control of the hydrogen-
bomb is their neglect to bring it to the
notice of the other 59 nations of the
General Assembly.
An even more terrible thought for Aus-
tralians is that in order to save the world
from destruction they must accept Evatt
as Prime Minister.
9 9
Casey showed some qualified optimism
in the statement in which he announced
he would go to the Geneva conference
on Korea and Indo-China. He said,
among other things, that
whether we shall in fact be able to make
even a start on the long road to an assured
world peace, and the elimination of the
menace of atomic warfare, will depend a
great deal on the attitude of Soviet Russia
and Communist China It would be folly
for the free world to close its eyes to the
fact that there has been no evident change
in the final objectives of international Com-
munism. But by meeting together we can
test out the possibility that it will suit Com-
munism no less than ourselves to live at
peace, despite the great differences in objec-
tives which separate the free world and the
Communist Powers.
9 9
It has taken thirty years for Melbourne
authorities to make an effort to ease the
congestion between Flinders-street station
and the city, and soon they will have the
Degraves subway completed. And now
Tatt.’s office is to be opened at just that
spot.
9 9
Calwell has been running around
Queensland distributing promises on so
lavish a scale that he must have given
up all hopes of being Federal Treasurer.
“Labor,” it appears, will build a stand-
ard-gauge railway from Townsville to
Darwin, provide finance for the Burde-
kin Dam and Tully Falls electricity-
scheme and clean up “the malarial mos-
quito-infested drains around Cairns,”
All that was promised at Maryborough.
By the time Arthur reaches Mt. Isa he’ll
probably be promising an iced-beer pipe-
line from Brisbane.
When Bert goes to Queensland there’ll
be nothing left for him to promise. In
fact, he may have to retract some of
those ma'de by his over-generous
lieutenant.
9 9
Just a day before Molotov came out
with his “offer” to join Nato his col-
league Vishinsky threw another veto into
the works of the Security Council, thereby
blocking an attempt to call upon Egypt
to lift its restrictions on shipping bound
through the Suez Canal for Israeli ports.
It was Russia’s 59th veto.
9 9
When Evatt minor tossed it in last
week the two Sydney afternoon papers
had almost identical posters —almost.
The “Sun,” with good sales-sense, pro-
claimed “Evatt Resigns,” leaving it to the
curious to pay their fourpence to find
out which one. The “Mirror,” normally
equally expert at concealing its informa-
tion from the non-paying public, had to
remember that it was backing the Doc.
for May 29, It took no chances, but
screamed “Clive Evatt Resigns.”
The most disquieting thing about
Clive’s “resignation” is the undenied
report that Cahill tried first to persuade
him to accept the Agent-Generalship and
finally agreed to appoint him to one of
the Supreme Court vacancies after the
Federal election. Not good enough for a
Cahill Minister —after several years’ trial
—but just the man for Agent-General or
judge. Well, well!
9 9
Urging Brisbane wharfies to put for-
ward a united front —the same phrase
that the Communists are using in their
“Out Menzies” propaganda—Paddy Ken-
nelly told them that “Labor’’ would
amend the Arbitration Court in accord-
ance with the desires of the unions. The
assurance he gave was “We will take the
advice of the A.C.T.U.” For “advice”
read “instructions.”
Cain can’t be blamed for saying the
Country party’s demand for a royal com-
mission into the Victorian railways lacks
logic. After all, McDonald’s Spring-
street farmers were in power for two years
before Cain took office, and the finances
of the railways have, if anything, im-
proved since then.
9 9
Within 10 years America will be pro-
ducing electricity from atomic power at
an economic price according to a report
of the Congress atomic sub-committee.
This is a most important statement. For
some time there has been no doubt in
scientific minds about the possibility of
using atomic power in industry ; the only
snag has been the cost. Now, apparently,
that is only a matter of time.
Professor Titterton, of the Australian
National University, who is on his way
to Glasgow to attend the International
Nuclear Physics Conference, said in
Adelaide that a reactor to supply suffi-
cient power for that city could be built
for about £25 million and would take less
than five years to finish. Premier Play-
ford is bound to be interested in both
these announcements ; he has already said
that the power-station now being built at
Port Augusta will be the last orthodox
power-plant built in South Australia.
9 9
What effect do closing-hours have upon
drinking? Roy Morgan’s Gallup poll
R.S.RC.A.
CLIVE EVATT.
PRESIDENT.
SHAGGY
“And the latest is that they’ve chucked him into the doghouse!”
reports that in the States with six-o’clock
closing—N. S. Wales, Victoria and South
Australia—-there is a smaller percentage
of drinkers than in the “late” States, Tas-
mania and Westralia. Of the five, Vic-
toria has the lowest percentage. But it
doesn’t hold the title alone—Queensland,
one of the “late” States, shares the honor.
9 9
Some people in Canberra and adjoin-
ing portions of N. S. Wales are reported
to be behaving like cats on hot bricks.
9 9
“Ike” says that South-east Asia is of
“transcendent importance to the United
States and the free world,” If an accurate
report, this means that the issue there now
surpasses, in U.S, eyes, all others any-
where. This is good news for Australia.
9 9
Most wheat men, well aware of the
reasons for the stultifying compact be-
tween Evatt and Cain, will see the motives
behind the “Pollard wheat plan” as clearly
as they will spot its flaws. It is significant
that “Labor,” which calls itself demo-
cratic, makes no provision for a growers’
poll. “Labor” politicians in general like
to talk in windy generalities which don’t
involve any brain-work; the wheat plan,
despite its faults, is something specific,
which is a considerable change. Does it
mean that Pollard has some reawakened
ambitions for leadership? And will it
be the forerunner of equally detailed
announcements on the means test and the
future of the trading banks?
9 9
Abolition of the Legislative Council
may become an active issue again in
N. S. Wales “Labor” circles—a northern
regional conference of the party intends
to urge it at the annual A.L.P. conference
in June. Abolition has been on the party
platform for years, but, although “Labor”
now has a majority in both Houses, noth-
ing has been done about it, too many
trade-union officials being now privileged
M.L.C.s. But the proposer of the
motion, G. T. Stanton, seems to have been
told n lhe\?sonaI U tonto«T- arS - *
told mei regional conference.
i.
expediency.
That’ll give Cahill and Co. a laugh.
• •
Queensland Country party is putting
up a Flying Parson, the Rev. Cliff Lan-
ham, to contest Kennedy. He has the
job ahead of him; “Labor” member
Riordan’s majority was almost 5700 at
the 1951 election.
Of the original seats of the Federal
Parliament Kennedy has probably had
fewer names associated with it than any
other. Charles McDonald won it at the
first election and held it until 1925, when
he died a few days before polling-day,
whereupon his opponent Grosvenor
Francis was declared elected. Francis
held it in 1928 against a challenge by
W. J. Riordan, whose brother David
defeated Francis a year later and repre-
sented Kennedy until his death in 1936.
Present holder is W. J. F. Riordan, a
son of WJ.
« •
rt
Because ot a union tactioii“ii2nt bus*
men in the Manlv area have been takinn
men m the Manly area have been taking
it out on the public with a go-slow strike
which limits the speed of their buses to
20 m.p.h. (in some cases 15 m.p.h.). A
fantastic result of this is that they have
been receiving extra overtime for incon-
veniencing the public. Yet Cahill and
Co. deny that N. S. Wales Government
transport is run for the benefit of its
employees,
• •
Billy Sheahan, resenting an attack on
him in Lang’s “Century,” said, among
other things:
In a weak moment of judgment I con-
tributed to the shareholding of that news-
paper. Never have I received any dividend
or scrip, nor do I expect to.
This apparently explains a paragraph
-in the current “Century”:
No one can accuse us of not giving
adequate space to the doings of our share-
holders. Blowhard has had his ten-quids’-
worth long ago.
• •
Sydney City Council, after much
prodding, has spoken severely to barrow-
men who have been convicted of “top-
ping.” The public is not so concerned
about barrow-topping as barrow-pushing.
9 9
“Mugga Way”: A member of Can-
berra’s Advisory Council has offered some
modest suggestions on liquor-reform. He
is newspaper-proprietor Arthur Shake-
speare, and his suggestion is that liquor
should be sold only to persons who are
“seated in a public room, lounge, dining-
room, garden or other premises provided
for the public.” The idea of approving
beer-gardens seems excellent (except in
the bitter Canberra winter), but evidently
Shakespeare, on his official visit to
Canada some years ago, did not see the
drab, badly-furnished and sex-segregated
saloons which have made drinking condi-
tions in many parts of the Dominion
little better than the swill which disgraces
some Australian States. There’s still a
lot to be said for the management and
hours of the English pub.
9 •
If there is any prize for the slowest
readers in Australia there’ll be no need
to look outside the N. S. Wales Cabinet
for the winners They are still “study-
ing” the Maxwell Liquor report which
was published on February 22 and don’t
expect to have mastered it sufficiently to
act upon it before the end of the current
Parliamentary session,
• •
Premier Cain has made everything as
clear as mud by “explaining” the object
of the proposed Obscene Publications
Bill by definition. He says it will define
as obscene any matter tending to deprave
or corrupt people whose minds are
open to immoral influences or unduly
emphasising sex, crimes of violence,
horror or gross cruelty. This is the
ordinary dictionary definition.
• •
A Perth bank-manager, R. W. Phillips,
will be the Liberal candidate to oppose
Tom Burke for the Perth seat in the
Reps, on May 29. Perth is one of
“Labor’s” not-so-safe seats; Burke’s
majority in 1949 was only 76, and in
1951 it increased, almost imperceptibly, to
114. This will be Phillips’s first stab at
Federal politics, but a couple of years
ago he ran, unsuccessfully, for the W.A.
Legislative Council. He has been a mem-
ber of the Liberal State executive and
was on the bank-officers’ committee
against nationalisation.
• •
It seems that “Labor” is going to pro-
mise marriage-loans, a project plugged
inside the party for a long time by Haylen,
who apparently got the idea from Hitler.
There was never a time when such a plan
was less justified. Since the war the mar-
riage-rate has been higher than for any
comparable period in our history and the
average age at marriage lower. Finally,
the birthrate has risen again, after the
steady drop of the years in between the
two big wars. Election-bait is the only
word for it.
• •
“In the ACT”: Canberra, which has
been drowsing happily in mellow autumn
sunshine, has shaken itself out of the
political doldrums and will remain awake
for nearly two weeks, till the conclusion
of the third and last session of the 20th
Parliament. The two Houses are meeting
this week, and wilt probably meet next
Monday so that the sittings may end in
time to allow ah air-lift of members and
staffs away from the capital before the
Easter rush of lesser persons around
Australia. The semi-vacuum in Federal
politics which resulted from the Queen’s
tour and the knowledge that the political
leaders were preparing their policy
speeches will be breached during the
present sittings. Newspaper-space and
radio-time, which will soon be available
to most members for hard cash only, as
they become merely candidates, is ready
and waiting for this final gathering of the
present House of Representatives, and
members of all parties may be expected
to seek as much publicity in print as pos-
sible, and to secure the “mikes” for the
maximum times allowed under Standing
Orders. In spite of the sound and fury
the Parliament will doubtless end on the
usual sentimental note of good wishes
and the noisy bravado of such occasions.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
BRILLIANTLY though the A.B.C. an-
** nouncer reported the Queen’s arrival
by air in Perth, I do think, seeing that
half the time he was talking about her
Majesty and half about her aircraft, he
should have made the plane “it” instead
of “she” for the occasion. It was all very
confusing to be told “Now she is making
a long circle over the hills before making
her final turn to port”; “Now he [the
pilot] will straighten her out and bring
her down”; and “Now she sags gracefully
to the tarmac.” One howler promised to
be truly dreadful, but the announcer
woke up and changed to “it” just in time.
—“MacHoots.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: There is some social feel-
ing left in Melbourne. Alfred Hospital
announced the other day that it had a
12-year-old boy sufferer from haemophilia,
in which uncontrollable bleeding follows
on the most trivial cut. From then on
offers of blood poured in, offerers rang-
ing from children of 10 to mqn of 70.
Three-hundred people rushed the Red
Cross blood-bank, and offers of a pint
of their vital fluid came from would-be
donors as far away as Mildura, from
Army recruits and seamen, while the
principal of the Melbourne Tech, pro-
mised that groups of students would call
at the hospital once a week for the next
three or four weeks. The material will
be needed, as the boy has had a leg off
to remove a blood-clot and will probably
only be kept alive by a continuous trans-
fusion for at least six weeks.
*z* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Mugga Way”; Prepared to wager
that for a town its size Canberra is way
ahead in the current hire-purchase boom.
Few towns have so large a proportion
of civil servants on fixed and certain
salaries; this forms the sort of com-
munity which keeps the h.-p. boys going
even in thin times. As for now —I’m
almost afraid to offer cash for anything
lest I be offended by a refusal.
“Willpar”: My self-confessed female
tricksters who present false fronts to the
world, and of whom “P.0.M.C.” asks
some pertinent questions (B. 24/3/’54),
all spoke at once giving their answers. I
sifted the following: “Who is he to talk?
We hide behind false figures, he behind
a pen-name,” “No nastiness, girls,” I say.
“He has a few points that should be
answered.” “Too right he has—and as
false as ours. Why, his pen-name stands
for Pads On My Chest. Obviously one
of these would-be he-men.” “Let’s be
serious,” I plead. “All right,” replied the
best-upholstered. “Tell him that we are
only thinking of the men. When a man
throws himself at a woman today he can
depend on a cushioned landing. And tell
him also that if a man enters matrimony
without knowing whether his fiancee is
all woman or part rubber he is obviously
marrying her for her money and deserves
to be disappointed in what goes with it.”
This upset me. “You are misinformed
about the pre-marriage behavior of my
sex,” I say innocently. Chorus from the
ladies: “Oh, yeah—read Kinsey!” “
“S.F.”: Surely any bridegroom dis-
illusioned by a deceitful sponge-rubber
charmer would have done his courting by
post?
ijl
“Castlereagh”; On March 22, the
Royal Society of Arts celebrated its
second centenary. Founded by 11 men,
the moving spirit a now-forgotten artist,
William Shipley, it aimed at far more
than fostering arts alone, as indi-
cated by its original title, The Royal
Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
Manufactures and Commerce, and it has,
in fact, played an important part in the
advancement of farming and industrial
techniques. Bligh’s Bounty voyage was
undertaken at the request of this same
society, which sought to introduce the
breadfruit-tree into the West Indies. The
society also took a keen interest in the
"If SHE knocks you back, lad, I got other daughters!”
establishment of the Australian wine in-
dustry. Advice was given pioneer growers,
and those who produced good-quality
wine received medals. A crate of wine
from Gregory Blaxland’s vineyard near
Parramatta was sampled by the Fellows
in 1822.
& &
“No Sirrah”: Wog money (B.
17/3/’54)? One of my two souvenirs of
war-travels is a £1 note printed for
Rommel to take with him in the
triumphant entry into Alexandria and
Cairo. A reasonable facsimile on the face
of the proper Egyptian £1 note, it has on
the back a mass of Arabic which. I’m
told, is a proclamation to the people of
Egypt. In quality it is nearer to the
Monopoly money mentioned by “C.A.L.”
as having been palmed off on the Wogs
than to the usual note. My other souv-
enir? A notice pinched from a girls’
school in Barletta, Italy. It says bluntly
in Italian; “Do Not Spit on the F160r.”
.
“Muskeen”; According to a “special
note” by the author, James Jones, on a
fly-leaf of From Here to Eternity, on
which the film was based (B. 24/3/’54),
the book is not factual. But he does say
that certain of the sadis-
tic stockade scenes “are
true scenes, of which the
author had first-hand
knowledge and personal
experience.” Anyone
who was picked-up by
the L.-of-C. provosts in
Tel Aviv, or who put in
a spell in a certain glass-
house in the Middle East,
knows that bashing is not
a monopoly of the U.S.
Army. And many men,
through boredom, resent-
ment and/or love, will
go a.w.l. at a base, but
will rejoin their unit
when the whips are
cracking, and cheerfully
take any punishment
coming.
♦♦♦ ♦&
“Ex-R.S.M.”: Tea
wasn’t the only stuff the
Yanks dumped into the
sea (B. 17/3/’54). At
Finschhafen I saw them
doing the same thing
with carcasses of frozen
mutton. One of our
Q.M. officers was pretty
hot under the collar about
it: “Our blokes would
give a lot to get a
meal of that now and then, but they’ve
got to live on bully, tinned goldfish and
dehydrated spuds, while we send good
tucker to these so-and-so’s to have them
ditch it! ” Actually, it was typical of how
our Army had to relearn because previous
lessons were forgotten. After War I
Colonel Beedon wrote a book in which.
"Have Patience, Delaney!"
First instalment’s in
Next Week’s BULLETIN
listing the food-preferences of all our
allies, he mentioned that the Americans
“would not touch mutton in any shape
or form.” Apparently nobody at our
headquarters had ever read this most
informative book; it would be interest-
ing to know how many thousands of tons
of mutton the Yanks dumped before
h,-q. woke up.
<s* ijf
“Mutton Jeff”: Reading of Namatjira
sitting expressionless at his own lionisa-
tion (B. 17/3/’54) reminded me of the
old editor who taught me my trade.
He used to snarl when he had to attend
functions at which presentations were to
be made. “Silly blankards!” he used to
growl. “Tears in their eyes because
they’ve been made life-member of some
tin-potty little club!” He eventually re-
tired to live on the coast, and I had the
pleasure of reporting that he had tears
in his eyes when he was presented with
a very fine gift at a farewell-party
arranged by almost everyone in the
town.
♦♦♦
“Nunk”: Legislation by State Govern-
ments to enforce classification and label-
ling of woollen garments and materials
reminds me that in the happy days befo’
de wah, when one could buy Irish-poplin
ties for 7s. 6d., poplin was still a material
with silk running one way and thicker
strands of wool running the other; a
ribbed material. Even then the habit was
growing of calling a cotton shirting, with
a similar ribbed appearance, poplin. But
after the war, in quite reputable busi-
nesses, anything that looked like shirting
became “poplin” ; twill weaves of cotton
in shirts and underpants you could shell
peas through were “poplin” ; and I have
seen even plain flat calico displayed under
the same heading. My wife holds that
war-time shortages grew up a race of
‘ Thanks. Now Would you mind giving the
canary a drink ?”
salespeople who had never heard of
madapolin. Maybe a few old hands could
tell you the difference between Italian-
cloth and sateen, but not many —come to
think of it. I’ve forgotten what it is
myself,
“H.C.8.”: The expression “he had
pluck” in “An Early-Day Aristocrat”
(B. 17/3/*54) rang in my ears like a
nostalgic anachronism. Besides being a
synonym for courage, “pluck” can also
mean the heart, liver and lungs of an
animal; feasible that its meaning of cour-
age and fortitude derived from that.
After all, the deer that gave the huntsman
a mighty chase would have had a big
heart and lungs—in short, “plenty of
pluck.” These days, however, we seem
to have discarded the Anglo-Saxon
“pluck” for the American “guts,” which
means exactly the same thing, figuratively
or literally. In being modern we merely
repeat an old expression in a rather less
pleasant manner.
* ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: Inflation, with a vengeance!
A few weeks ago I paid ninepence for a
Bulletin and read a joke about a man
with a dog not being allowed on a tram.
Last week I paid 12s. for a seat and
heard the joke repeated on the stage of a
Sydney theatre.
* ❖
“An Chuidh”: The correct spelling of
all names beginning with the prefix
(B. 17/3/’54) is MacWhatsisname. “M’ ”
or “Me” are merely abbreviations for
“Mac,” and are now out of date and
incorrect. In the Gaelic the Mac is
separate—Mac Shimmi (chief of Clan
Fraser), for instance. Consequently the
patronymic should always start with a
capital letter, though the Mac is often
spelt in Gaelic with a small letter On
this ground most modern Scottish authori-
ties use the correct version of the name
(MacWhatsisname), regardless of how its
owner spelt it, whereby saving much con-
fusion when a name has been spelt vari-
ously, as often done in the past.
N.S.W.G.O.
“The conductor of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, Mr. Leon Goossens, proposed a site
over Wynyard underground-railway ramp for
an opera-house and concert-hall.”
Mr. Goossens proposes that the opera
should camp,
Provided he can secure the necessary
backers.
Over the Wynyard underground-station
ramp
At a cost of seven hundred and fifty
thousand smackers.
A national opera is much longer overdue
Than any of Mr. Winsor’s express-
trains, however slow;
But should Mr. Goossens’s dream of an
opera-house come true
Better tempos will be kept above the
ramp than below.
The site is convenient for debussing for
Debussy ;
Tickets may be obtained for Antill’s
“Corroboree”
From railway booking-officers, who are
never fussy
Whether you go to “Rigoletto” or
Warra wee.
But one suggestion about similar railway-
accommodations
Mr. Goossens would condemn as any-
thing but funny —
On operatic sleeper-reservations he has
his reservations;
There are things even great conductors
will not do for money.
Still, against either sleepers or noise, he
hardly needs to be defended —
Goossens can take care of himself there
like anything:
More likely the train services would have
to be suspended
Owing to the occurrence of “The
Rite of Spring.”
And even when they came to the
conclusion
Of a programme by Bartok, the
orchestral Krupp,
The station would remain in grave
confusion
Until the morning critics cleared it up.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


COMMENT of a fair patroness of art
at a Contemporaries’ show in Mel-
bourne, within hearing of the artist: “I
love that one, it’s so silly ... so cleverly
silly.”—“Spoke.”
♦Jt
“P.0.M.C.”: I have heard of “mild”
drunks, “laughing” drunks, “crying”
drunks and “dead” drunks —evidently
there are degrees of sobriety, too, A
constable told a magistrate in Melbourne
that the cove he had arrested for smear-
ing a white substance on the clothes of
bystanders was “very sober” at the time
of the offence.
“H.A.L.”: Although she is slightly
built, our Queen appears to have no
trouble in handling the sword when in-
vesting her knights (B, 17/3/’54). It was
a different story with her great-great-
grandmother. Towards the end of her
reign Victoria found it impossible to
handle even a light-weight steel blade.
Then somebody realised there was a new,
feather-light metal, as yet no more than
a scientific curiosity. A special sword
was made from it, and to the end of her
reign the Grand Old Lady dubbed her
knights with an aluminium blade.
“Also Ran”; When I read something
about the “true facts” of The Eddie
Chapman Story on the Red Page I got
into such a hot heat that I had to dash
off and have a drink of wet water. I
would be very glad if you could give me
an instance of an untrue fact. I know
Lord Jowitt used the term several times
in his book about Alger Hiss, but even
his august reputation does not condone
it.
% -tjt
“Otiola”: Like many others, “Uramao”
is a bit confused in his attempt to identify
those two Winston Churchills (B.
24 /3 / ’54). Winnie was not getting com-
plimentary Press-notices on the Ameri-
can’s Richard Carvel —it was the news of
the forthcoming appearance of that novel
which prompted his offer to use the name
Winston Spencer Churchill. And Savrola
was not the American’s book —it was the
sole attempt at fiction by our Winston,
The original letter mentioned! is given in
full in The 500 Best English Letters,
edited by the Earl of Birkenhead.
* *
“Alma”: Not everyone is out to shark
the traveller overseas. In two trips to the
Continent (one hitch-hiking and one as
member of a five-fold feminine crew in a
vintage-model London ex-taxi) there were
innumerable times when people either
refused our payment or undercharged.
In Italy, as we waited at a garage for
repairs, the owner of a long, shiny car
had some minor work done. He paid
several times the amount we were charged.
We pointed this out to the attendant. He
shrugged, smiled, and explained that it
was “what we charge the tourists.” He
shook his head when we asked if we
weren’t tourists. “What are we then?”
Poor Bruno shook his head again and
looked at us, then at our 27-year-old ex-
taxi, held together with wire and rope
and faith, the tubes poking through the
tyres where rubber and cord were slowly
drifting apart. “I don’t know, I don’t
know,” was the closest he could get.
&
“C. 8.”: I hear of a psychiatrist trying
to cure a neurotic left-handed child by
educating him to use his right hand, on
the assumption that left-handedness is
unnatural and had given the child his
feeling of inferiority. Seem to remember
chaps named Clem Hill and Norman
Brookes and one or two others who didn’t
appear to suffer any sense of inferiority
through being left-handers,
i
& ❖ &
Sweetness and Light
THE reader of literary digests cannot
but be struck by the way they inform
with sweetness the harsh body of public
and private life. In most of their selected
articles everything happens for the best.
Their contributed sketches and paragraphs
“I suppose the horses enjoy carrying US just as we enjoy riding THEM.”
cut a section through contemporary liv-
ing, as through a layer-cake of chocolate
- • „ j i . os i;
ICing and almond tilling.
Readers who have observed that these
contributions are paid for, and having
, . ... , . ’ ... j
an anecdote positively oozing with good-
will to give to the world, often feel tech-
nically unqualified to present it. Perhaps
n , , ~ .
a few examples Will show how It IS
done. These are imagined instances, but
“You can never trust these snakes snooping round.”
it cannot be emphasised too much that
real contributions, sent to real periodicals,
should be true, if possible.
The contributor should get into the
habit of classifying his material, for if
it does not fall under the heading of a
kind of story that has been told many
times before the editors will immediately
reject it. A good heading to begin with
is “Democracy At Work.” The point
of all stories under this heading is that
democracy is a very courageous and en-
lightened institution:
A tramguard at Upas, Pa., objected to
carrying a certain passenger in his tram
every morning. “I don’t know what’s the
matter with him,” the tramguard told his
superiors, “but I just don’t like having
him on my tram, see?” Inquiries were
made, and it was found that the passenger
objected to was a quiet watchmaker with
a prosperous jewellery-store in the city.
Eventually the chairman of the Tramways
Board, accompanied by the Mayor of
Upas, called on the jeweller, and put the
case before him fairly and squarely. The
jeweller pondered the matter for a few
moments. “It seems an insoluble prob-
lem,” he said at last. Then an idea struck
him. “But look, what’s to stop my catch-
ing an earlier tram?” Because of this
democratic approach to the problem the
jeweller was able to tighten-up on his
staff, who had been arriving ten minutes
to a quarter of an hour late. The tram-
guard, too, was pleased. “It proves,” he
said, “that freedom was not fought for for
nothing.”
Another good heading is “Natural
Justice.” Stories about natural justice
show that a little private horse-sense is
better than a lot of pettifogging law;
The lawyer with the best practice in our
town makes far less money than he saves
his clients by settling their differences
out of court. If he did not speak so
frankly about his successful cases nobody
would know that they had arisen. "Man
came in the other day,” he says. “ ‘My
neighbor borrowed my electric lawnmower
and broke it. Had to get a new one.
Now he wants to sue me because my
clothesline-post is two inches over on to
his property—is that a fair deal?’ I
thought it over. It seemed hopeless.
Then an idea occurred to me: I said ‘Try
lending him your new electric lawn-
mower.’ Well, it worked. He wouldn’t
have had a leg to stand on at law; but
the little personal, human touch made all
the difference.”
When the contributor has mastered
these elementary forms, he may address
himself to the more personal and involved
style of the literary sketch under such a
title as “The Strongest Character I Have
Ever Met,” The contributor has to put
himself into this sketch as an acquain-
tance of the subject; he must, as it were,
play about with the subject, exhibiting
him from many points of view in all his
sweetness and delicacy: it is not surpris-
ing that most such studies are by women.
The contributor is advised to begin with-
out prelude, thus:
The strongest character I have ever met
is the nightcart-man of our unsewered
suburb. It was a chance meeting, con-
ducted in the romantic moonlight of a
summer night. A heavy wooden door,
firmly bolted, stood between us; but
“stone walls do not a prison make nor
lran bars a case ;
Our conversation developed, a little
shyly at first, but I soon discovered that
this rough man, with the gentle voice of
one accustomed *° " d ° *°? d by stealth
and blush to find it fame,” was a true
phi i oBop her. “i have to be,” he admitted,
I could imagine his soft grin. He was
patient, too. To my suggestion that he
might save time by visiting the neighbors
flr * t> he replied “Plenty of time; plenty
Of time. Besides, the nextdoor places are
all Inhabited, too. Been a good season for
the orchards; terrible good season for
orchards.”
We had several more such encounters.
I did not contrive them; they just seemed
to happen that way. He was a fine pianist,
I discovered, with a comprehensive know-
ledge of the difficulties to be encountered
in the performance of Debussy’s music.
“Debussy,” he said simply, “was a
natural.” His son was busy studying to
become a pharmacist—“ The other end of
the business,” he ventured. Again I could
imagine the soft grin.
I think what made him the strongest
character I have ever met was the grip
he had on reality.
Here the sketch is firmly in its stride,
and it is hardly necessary to point out
the obvious line of development.
Another representative heading is “A
Simple Child’s Sweet Sayings”; but
because so many contributions are
received under this heading the competi-
tion is too severe for all except the pro-
fessional contributor. It is much better
for the beginner to concentrate on some-
thing like “The Philosophy of Getting
On.” Contributions under this heading
prove that adherence to some simple and
idyllic rule of conduct will assure success
in any walk of life:
Recently at a dinner organised by the
managers of his oil-wells, film-companies,
steel corporations and newspaper-chains
to celebrate his 75th birthday, Silas Clopp,
the veteran financier and philanthropist,
gave away the simple secret of his success
in life. “Early in life,” he said, “I decided
to give more than I got. I’ve always done
it—and look how it’s come back to me!”
The “Philosophy of Getting On” story
is probably the easiest of all to write,
and it should be especially commended
to the beginner because of its two-
way stretch. Should it be returned
to the contributor, he may, by a mere
stroke of the pen, convert it into a sale-
able item under the heading, “The
Philosophy of Not Getting On.” Para-
graphs under this heading prove that
money is not everything ; and since there
are more people who need this assurance
than can profit by some simple recipe
for success, it is possibly the kind of
paragraph that is most in demand:
Sitting on his front-veranda at sundown
an old softgoods clerk replied to his son’s
reiterated suggestion that they exchange
their outworn jalopy for a new season’s
convertible. “Son,” he said, “I’ll tell you
why I can’t afford it. Early in life I
decided to give more than I got. It’s left
us without a lot of things we might have
had, but look what a lot of room that
makes for happiness.”
The contributor may have to write
many paragraphs before he can achieve
quite the finished tone of this one; it is
difficult for the beginner, for instance,
to adjust his mind to the brilliant banality
of the statement, or the belief that such
a daring confusion of terms and meta-
phors could possibly find enthusiastic
readers. But time and experience are
great teachers, and with application even
the cleverest of writers may make a pay-
able proposition of such exercises.
JAMES PRESCOE.
PENDULUM SWING
“The old-time opera-stage heroines were often
shapeless heavyweights. Grace Moore altered
all that. But is the frail, seemingly half-starved
soprano one sees too often now any better to
look at than the over-fat one?” — Musical
magazine.
Oh, we saw full many a Gilda
Fall, when Sparafucile killed her,
And as she hit the boards the building
shook.
Dark the stage; her dying cackle
Drowned the noise of block-and-tackle
As they moved her bagged-up body
near the brook.
Had someone tried to lift her there, inert,
He’d have got double-hernia, that’s a cert,
For Rigoletto s daughter, scarce full-
grown.
Yet tipped the beam at nearly fifteen
stone;
Her bust was so gigantic
That the Duke, gaily romantic.
Ne’er clasped her waist —how could he,
from that zone?
For the role of Mimi, frozen.
Pale, consumptive, there was chosen
Some dame who measured yards across
the beam.
Her chins were in profusion,
And you came to the conclusion
That, if Rodolfo went to the extreme,
She could, by swiping with a ham-like
fist.
Have floored the poet like a pugilist . . .
And what of Carmen, darling of Madrid?
The bull had less beef on him than SHE
did ! . . .
Toscas, Butterflies, Aidas,
All were obviously great feeders —
Should they be with us still? Heav’n
forbid !
Now, too many opera women
Tend to overdo the slimmin’,
Though it may personally make ’em
glad-oh.
The coloratura’s whinny
Comes from someone who’s so skinny
It takes her all her time to cast a
shadow.
Her pins are lolly-like, her knees twin
knobs ;
She’s very flat around the thingumy-
bobs . .
As one who by such sights has been
depressed,
I make this heartfelt, urgent, strong
request:
Please relieve the awful tedium,
And strike the happy medium
With smiling, shapely beauties, golden-
tressed !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


NPNseg
77*
on
TAA
’s ‘pressurised’
CONVAIR and
4lv€ -fvUKcllv-. i\rC^
DC6 SERVICES
119 Phillip St., Sydney. 80 526
PERSONAL ITEMS
While manoeuvring to berth in Sydney
Harbor in 1951 cruiser Australia came
into collision with a freighter. The other
day, sitting in Admiralty, Mr. Justice
Kinsella found in favor of the cruiser.
Which will be good news to those who’ve
served with Captain James Morrow
(“Copper” to all hands), for he is widely
liked, and a collision can be a very nasty
thing indeed for a naval officer —particu-
larly (as in this case) when the Admiral
is on board. A destroyerman by train-
ing, with all the qualities of tolerance and
men-handling that that implies. Morrow
had Voyager in the Mediterranean, got
an Itie sub., and D.S.O. Later, in Arunta,
when the Malaita collected a Jap torpedo
off Moresby, Morrow got on to the Jap,
got him, and got D.S.C. He went up to
four-ringed captain in 1947.
• •
Unesco initiated last year a system of
travelling fellowships, one to each mem-
ber-country, to be awarded to a writer,
painter, or musician under 45, and the
first Australian award has gone, after
various committees deliberated, to
Douglas Stewart, who conducts The
Bulletin’s Red Page, because of his
DOUGLAS STEWART
verse-plays for stage and radio, “The
Fire on the Snow,” “Ned Kelly,” etc.
Sailing by the Orsova .on April
30 for six months in England
and on the Continent, he will have
a look at what goes on in stage,
radio and television and hopes to report
on some of it, also on art shows, for The
Bulletin. Mrs, Stewart —who is the
artist Margaret Coen —goes with him.
Pencil-portrait by Norman Lindsay.
• •
Off to London, chief guest at the cen-
tenary celebrations Of the British publish-
ing house of Ward, Lock and Co., Mary
Grant Bruce. Reason for the invitation
is that the Australian author is the firm’s
senior writer, having had her first brain-
child published - by it in 1910. That was
The Little Bush Maid, which also ran as
a serial through a Melbourne weekly.
Since then Mary Grant Bruce has written
30 novels, and made the Billabong kids
familiar to hundreds of thousands of
children the world over. Born at Sale
(Vic.), she started on the Inky Way as an
“Age” reporter describing that sacred
institution the Melbourne Cup,
• •
“Cauboy”; When the Viennese Boys’
Choir arrives in Sydney a couple of
months hence —its second visit —it will
bring 450 years of history with it.
Singers have included Mozart, Schubert
and Haydn, and it still sings the operetta
“Bastien and Bastienne,” which wonder-
boy Mozart composed as a lad of 11,
The choir lives in the Augarten, one of
Vienna’s most beautiful palaces, which
it bought with the money earned by con-
certs —the atmosphere the boys are
trained in is permeated with magnificence
and culture. The choir tours Australia
under the David N. Martin aegis; its
manager will be Charles Doming, the
Norwegian baritone who sang here in
“Song of Norway.” War II broke-up
the choir’s first tour; it found itself
marooned in Melbourne, and its con-
ductor went to the detention-camp at
Tatura, where he organised a first-class
symphony orchestra. The boys were
billeted on Melbourne families —some of
them became choirboys at St. Patrick’s
Cathedral; one, Stefan Haag, is producer
for the National Theatre opera in
Melbourne.
• •
“Uramao”;- Successor to Warwick
Braithwaite as conductor of New Zea-
land’s National Orchestra, James Robert-
son has for the past seven years been
director and conductor of the Sadler’s
Wells Opera. Other batoning of note
includes a time on the musical staff of
the Glyndebourne Opera, conductor and
chorus-master of the Royal Carl Rosa
Opera Co. and, in 1939, conductor for
the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
in Winnipeg.
• •
London-bound, Sir Bernard Dawson,
Professor of Obstetrics at Otago Univer-
sity (N.Z.), to attend the silver jubilee of
the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists, of which he is a founda-
tion-member. A Warwickshire man, sur-
gical-specialist with the R.A.M.C. in War
1, after it he settled in Adelaide to specia-
lise in obstetrical and gynaecological work.
Prominent in developing ante-natal and
post-natal clinics at Adelaide Maternity
Hospital, he was a member of the com-
mittee appointed by the S.A. Government
to draft plans for the obstetric and gynae-
cological block of Adelaide University.
He crossed to Dunedin to take up his
professorship at Otago University 23
years back.
• •
“Meek”; Canberra University College,
an offshoot of Melbourne University, is
pioneering in Australia a full-year lecture
course on Australian literature. The
course at this stage won’t count towards
a degree, and most of the 30-odd persons
who have enrolled at the bargain-price
of a guinea a term are not students of
the college. Lecturer will be Tom Inglis
Moore, whose work at the college in-
cluded, until lately, lectures in the school
of diplomatic studies recently discontinued
by the External Affairs Department.
• •
An honorary Doctorate of Laws from
the National University of Ireland has
landed on Enzedder Dr. Philip Lynch,
Victoria University Councillor and Gov-
ernment pathologist. He’ll voyage over
there shortly to receive the honor. He
comes of a sporting family—father a
noted Rugbyite and a tennis opponent of
Anthony Wilding; brother an All Black.
• •
Reached The End in South Africa, at
70, Francis Brett Young, who published
his first book, a critical study of the Poet
Laureate Robert Bridges, in 1913, and
went on to produce a prolific crop of
some 40 novels, plays and volumes of
verse. His Portrait of Clare brought him
the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in
1927; possibly the best-remembered of
his others are The House Under the
Water and My Brother Jonathan. A
medico himself, R.A.M.C. major in War
I, he was the son of an M.D. Brother
Neville, a planter and trader in the Milne
Bay area after War 11, is now in charge
of the Kimberley agricultural research-
station in Westralia.
Oldest ex-serviceman to be presented
to her Majesty and the Duke in Westralia,
Frank Cole of Boulder is a trim 97 still
moving under, his own power. As a boy
of 15 he came oop from Somerset and
joined the R.N. in the days of yardarms
and sails. Later he served in ships with
the then midshipman who was to be
George V, and with Prince Louis of Bat-
tenberg, grandfather of the Duke of
Edinburgh.
• •
“Sister Ellell”: The death of Sister
Eileen Mary Callaghan—“ Cal” to all of
us —extinguished an indomitable spark
which fought against savage odds for
about 12 years. Serving with the Austra-
lian Army Nursing Service from 1940, she
was stationed at Rabaul, and captured
there in 1942. Her work with the mission
Sister at Kokopo Hospital earned her a
“mention.” Transferred in 1942 to
Yokohama (where she remained with the
other Sisters for two years, going thence
to Totsuko), she was brutally treated by
the Japanese, and was bedridden for the
last 18 months of her incarceration. I
first knew her at Broken Hill Hospital,
and met her again in 1946, at Daw’s-road
Military Hospital, Adelaide, where she
was returned in very poor shape and on
the dangerously-ill list. As she progressed
she often lay outside in the garden, with
a camellia in her hair, as if to offset the
silence she imposed upon herself to assist
her recovery. This year ? s Anzac reunion
will not be the same without her, and our
sub-branch will be the poorer for her
passing. A final and fitting tribute was
flowers from the Queen.
• •
“Fitz”: Thomas Thornton Reed, Dean of
Adelaide and Rector of St. Theodore’s, Rose
Park, in the same city, has been made a Doctor
of Letters by Adelaide University for a thesis
on Henry Kendall; the examiners, Dr. E. Morris
Miller and Prof. D. Nichol Smith.
Born at Eastwood (S.A.) 51 years ago, Dr.
Reed graduated at Melbourne University. From
1947 to 1949 he was Canon of St. Peter’s
Cathedral, Adelaide, and from 1949 to 1953
Archdeacon of Adelaide. In War II he was
a chaplain with the A.I.F. in New Guinea,
and he’s now a senior chaplain with Central
Command.
Twenty years ago, at the suggestion of Archi-
bald Strong, Dr. Reed began collecting material
for a Life of Kendall and towards editing
a definitive edition of his poems. In 1950
the Adelaide University awarded him the Fred
Johns Scholarship for Biography, and it may
publish his Life of the poet —he has yet to
find a publisher for the poems.
Material collected included copies of every-
thing in the Mitchell Library, Sydney, and from
Kendall’s eldest son, Frederick C. Kendall, a
DR. REED
valuable collection of Kendalliana, including
Kendall MSS., the diary of the last year of the
poet’s work as Inspector of Forests, his scrap-
book, and letters to Kendall from the literary
lights of his day—J. Brunton Stephens, James
Lionel Michael, Charles Harpur, George Gordon
McCrae, Marcus Clarke and others.
Dr. Reed’s search took him page by page
through the files of every newspaper and peri-
odical to which Kendall might have con-
tributed, a job which has occupied his spare
time for several years, His definitive edition of
the poems will contain nearly 100 not previously
collected or reprinted.
The cheerful captain here appended
sails under the name of Duncan Lindsay
Raymond, aboard the 556 ft. triple-
turreted length of Canadian cruiser
Ontario, on a goodwill tour of these parts.
Originally Royal Navy, he was loaned to
the Canadian side in 1944, Director of
Weapons and Tactics, liked the change,
and transferred over in 1949. Gunnery-
jack by trade, in destroyers, cruisers and
CAPTAIN RAYMOND
battleships prior to the big show, he was
in British cruiser Southampton in early-
-1941 in the Mediterranean. On their
first appearance in that already unhealthy
area Junkers 87 dive-bombers bombed and
burnt Southampton and sent her to the
bottom. Raymond’s next ship was carrier
Illustrious, wherein he saw some accounts
rendered per that craft’s protecting air-
craft. Before taking command of the
R. air-station at Dartmouth he was
second-in-command of the cruiser he now
captains.
• •
“Yarralumla”: Forty years ago a youth
was employed by an oil company in Eng-
land at a wage of 35-bob a week, but
before he could start a war broke out,
and he went into the Army instead. As
he told the gathering at the opening of
Shell’s refinery at Corio (Vic.), he later
prepared for destruction and actually
destroyed more oilfields, resources and
equipment of the oil industry than he
could ever have produced in a lifetime
of service. “You never had the benefit
of my services,” he told the oil-men,
“and, if I may say so, you seem to have
got on very well without them.” The
one-time oil-prospect is now Field-
Marshal Sir William Slim, G.-G.
• •
A pretty tidy piece of work brought
Mr. Harrison his Sir Eric. Right at the
last moment of a 14,000-mile tour the
Queen honored the man who, for two
solid years, had worked hardest and
longest to make it a success.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 73, medico Stanley
Welton Hogg, a Sydneyite who, after service
with the Anzacs’ medical corps, took up fruit-
farming in Nelson, New Zealand. He got back
to his first field as clerk of medical records and
librarian at Otago University, and, before
retiring in 1946, .was secretary and librarian in
Wellington to the Dominion branch of the
B.M.A.
At Glenelg (S.A.), at 92, Matthew Combe,
versatile businessman and sportsman. He
joined a firm of Customs agents when young,
later bought it, went on the land, acquired
three large properties, returned to commerce,
founded the Mutual Hospital Association and
managed it for years. Foundation-member and
oldest life-member of Adelaide Polo Club and
S. Jockey Club, he bred and raced thorough-
breds, shipped horses to India for the Army,
and, with Topaki, won the Viceroy’s Cup in
India. A foot-runner of note himself, he was
a judge of coursing for many years.
In Sydney, at 78, C. R. Halloran, known
throughout the State’s west as an expert wool-
classer, and, in Sydney, as a wine-and-spirit-
merchant in O’Connell-street. Member ot
Royal Sydney Golf Club and the A.J.C. for
40 years, he did a deal of amateur riding in
his day.
At 68, in Brisbane, William Hurwood, who
joined the ship-building firm of Evans Deakin
just after War I. Deputy-chairman and assist-
ant managing-director at the end, he helped
build many of the RA.N’s anti-submarme ves-
sels in War 11.


ALL THE NEWS THAT DIDN’T MATTER


ABORIGINALITIES
YIfESTRALIA’S principal coal-town,
Collie, has found a name for its
town oval. It was thought the “Rec.,” as
the oval has been affectionately called
since its creation, was hardly in keeping
with the town’s present dignity and status,
so the Road Board advertised for sug-
gestions, preferably with a Royal-tour
bias. They came from all over the south-
west, and one has been selected. In
future the oval will be known as The
Collie Recreation Ground. —“Bass.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mingari”: The emu isn’t merely a
“lazy feller” (B. 24/3/’54); he’s just
plain damn’ silly most of the time, and
how he’s managed to survive is a mystery.
Perhaps he managed to breed a bit faster
than his only enemies (the abos and
dingoes) could kill him ; if he’d relied on
brains he’d have been extinct thousands
of years ago. Start one when you’re
driving along beside a fence and the big
dimwit will run ahead of you for miles,
trying to get through or over the fence
and giving himself a thorough bashing in
the process. Muster a paddock down to
a corner and you’ll find all the emus for
miles around mustered, too, plunging at
the wires <md filling the air with dust and
feathers, but never attempting to break
back behind the horsemen, as even the
silliest sheep might do. If the water cuts
out at an accustomed watering-place
they’ll walk in circles for days until they
finally die, though other wells and
troughs may be only a few miles away.
Arid, if complete proof that he’s weak in
the bun is wanted, is there any other bird
which makes a nest, waits patiently for a
succession of mates to turn-up and then
takes over the job of raising the family
while the mammas gallivant about with
any other buck that takes their fancy.
♦ * * ♦
“8.A.K.”: I’m not surprised that
black-and-white rabbits are rare (B.
17/3/’54). Nature seems to have given
more thought to that particular color-
scheme than to any other. When she
keeps to her normal practice in the color-
ing of furred piebalds —black on top and
white underneath —there is no pro-
nounced, objectionable characteristic
about the animal. But when, on very
rare occasions, she reverses the order and
makes the belly black and the back white
she is warning the world that the bearer
is decidedly odoriferous. The skunk is a
classic example; the polecat another:
and natural history admits no exception
to the rule.
“Betcha”: The bicolored bunny
abounds only in good seasons, and even
then the law of nature is agin his survival.
Deficiency in camouflage is what beats
him —he makes an easier prey for foxes,
dingoes, eagles, dogs and the weekender-
with-a-gun than the monochromed brer.
Last season a near-white appeared in a
litter on the hillside where I worked, and
almost every morning it was easy to spot
him a quarter of a mile off, though the
other rabbits weren’t visible. Then sud-
denly he disappeared, and I guessed the
answer. Incidentally, 35 years ago I
took from a 500-acre paddock enough
blacks in one season to make a rug, and
yellows that made a good-looking fur
coat. Nowadays, however thick the bun-
nies, I doubt if you could do it any-
where—certainly not in any of the dis-
tricts I know.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Harbel”: I’ve had my share of
experience with white-ants, but they can
still spring a surprise. There was the
nest I saw in a barge—which discounted
the accepted theory that termites must
have contact with the ground to live.
Obviously, it is the moisture they draw
from the earth which is essential to
their existence. Then there was the
Oregon ridge-piece eaten out of an
otherwise-all-cypress shed. How did they
know the one palatable piece of timber
was waiting to be eaten 30ft. above the
ground? Again, I have twice seen
cypress eaten by white-ants. Recently I
pulled out —or, rather, it fell out —a four-
by-four Oregon corner-stud. The termites
had worked their way up the stick, eat-
ing only the horizontal fibre and leaving
the vertical grain untouched. It dis-
integrated into five or six strips of
veneer-like timber. An experienced
carpenter I showed them to took them
for strips of three-ply that had been left
out in the rain and parted from the
glue.
« * * «
“Lemuel G.”: Stage 1 of my tobacco-
growing was dragging buckets up a
steep river-bank for hours daily to water
the seed-beds. Then a faint green fuzz
appeared, which the local agricultural
officer pronounced tobacco, a diagnosis
shortly confirmed by hordes of winged
and/or creeping nicotine-addicts, which
" He spins wire-rope from steel-wool—says it's not so sissy."
ate the fruits of my labor with gusto. As
each arrived a specimen was borne to
the a. 0., who told what poison I was to
ladle out; each of these, in turn, slew
the current pest, but appeared to be
simply a relish for the next to arrive
Eventually the supply of pests was ex-
hausted, and, apart from 12-hours’ weed-
ing six days a week, my time was my own,
until planting-out. There are machines
for this, but we couldn’t run to one. So
holes were made with a long stick; and,
with a bucket of plants and another of
water—and a permanently curved spine
—I shoved in the seedlings. From then
on it was just a matter of stumbling
around among the clods, dust and flies
A LAST-WICKET STAND
from sunrise to sunset with a hoe, belting
at the weeds which had sprung up among
the first rows long before I’d planted the
last. Just about this stage a heaven-sent
friend invited me to go on the roads with
a mob of ewes and lambs, and the fact
that I regarded this as a happy release
says all there is to say about the joys of
tobacco-growing. I sometimes wonder
how I can still smoke the stuff!
* * * ♦
“Dick the Fossicker”: Abo. voices
carry far because they employ a peculiar
tone for long-distance conversation (B.
17/3/’54). Prospecting in the eastern
Mac Donnell Ranges, 1 was wondering
how my three camels would get a drink
when an old lubra offered to lead me to
a waterhole a few miles away. We had
covered about half the distance when a
tiny figure appeared on a hilltop a long
way off, then came a hail of “Lilliwa,
kwadja kwiandaritckika I" Old Lilliwa
turned to me and said; “Him say water
all gone.” She called back a question,
received a reply and led me to another
waterhole. Later, I measured roughly the
distance across which those messages had
been shouted: 900yds. After hearing
several other long-distance conversations,
and trying my hand at it, I found it wasn’t
so difficult. You do not shout; you use
the same howl as that in a cooee. Edfch
syllable is articulated very clearly, with
long pauses between words. Years later
I was able to teach the trick to a Boy
Scout troop. They found it easy to talk
across a valley at least 500yds. wide when
they had acquired the knack.
* * * *
“Plankton”; References here to flying-
squid recall that Dr. W. H. Rush
(Nautilus VI; 1892) mention how,
about 300 miles off Brazil, a swarm of
hundreds of these creatures flew from
the water and landed on the deck of the
ship, fully 12ft. above sea-level. The
giants of the squid family, recorded from
the North Atlantic, may exceed 50ft. in
length overall. Big as they are, the
sperm-whale is not afraid to tackle
them. It has been noted that big
bull sperm-whales often have their
mouths permanently scarred by the tear-
ing hooks with which the suckers of these
monsters are armed. Species of the
smaller kinds may occur in such immense
numbers as to ruin fisheries by their
voracious onslaughts on shoals of her-
rings and mackerel.
* • » •
“Salmon Gums”: Where did “Old
Camp” get the notion that Binghi was
a stern utilitarian (B. 10/3/’54)? Maybe
his life was governed to a large extent by
the need to scratch a living from an in-
hospitable land, but he still contrived to
infuse a lot of fun into his existence,
Ever seen a corroboree? There’s nothing
utilitarian about that; it is pure fun and
relaxation. And at the big meetings, where
perhaps a dozen tribes gathered, they
had competitions, mainly of acting, in
which a wealth of talent was displayed
and appreciated. Binghi a utilitarian?
With his beautiful belief in a kindly being
who lived in a land above the clouds,
where all good spirits went after death;
with his myths and legends of the stars
and planets, legends so like those of the
ancient Greeks that a common origin
seems almost obvious; with his happy,
spontaneous laughter and his hospitality
Binghi was anything but utilitarian, and
he was quite capable of inventing such a
toy as the returning-boomerang. Men who
studied the natives 100 to 150 years ago
were unanimous that the returning-
boomerang was a toy—or practically so.
* * * *
“J.S.D.”: “Bogaduck” (B. 3/3 /’54)
can make even the low-country trout
luscious on the palate by wrapping it in
two or three thicknesses of wet paper
(turning in the ends) before putting it
under hot ashes for about ten minutes.
When unwrapped, the skin will come
away with the paper.
* * ♦ ♦
Birds by the Way
TF YOU have time and inclination to
•*- regard the Hume Highway as some-
thing more than a mere speedway, there
are birds enough beside the road to
brighten any stop you care to make.
Mostly it’s through open country, with
maggies and willie-wags all the way. But
for color the parrots have it; eastern
rosellas flash across your path in any
timbered belt, with their crimson cousins,
as well, above certain altitudes.
There will also be shrill flocks of lori-
keets when the yellow-box and some of
the gums are heavy in bloom.
Near Little Billabong (N.S.W.), when
I was there, the little lorikeet dominated
the avian world by sheer numbers;
clusters of them would drop from low-
hanging branches of blossom like
clusters of bees slipping from a new
swarm—and they’d take wing as they
fell in much the same way.
At Violet Town (Vic.) it was the musk-
lorikeet, with a stray pair or so of the
swift member of the clan, which clamored
for the nectar. The gums weren’t so far
advanced here, but the mistletoe was in
full bloom, and on it brilliant green,
brush-tongued birds hung head-down
within a couple of yards of modern
limousines hurtling past at 70 m.p.h.
We’re inclined to take our wonderful
bird-wealth for granted; but when you
add to this little lot the galahs of the
slopes, gaing-gangs on the Divide, white
cockatoos at odd spots and maybe a pair
of yellow rosellas near the ’Bidgee, the
traveller on the Sydney-Melbourne run
has a good chance of seeing in one day
more kinds of parrots than can be found
in the whole of any other continent.
WIPPEGONG.
THE MIGHTY MARCH OF TREES
The forests are marching down ...
Already they reach the shanty where Bandy Bob
Lived with his ginger cat
And his one-eyed dog,
And shadows creep where the warm sun used
to lie . . .
Bandy has gone long since, and the blackberries
now
Twine round the posts, and hang on the broken
door.
They tangle and sprawl with greed
In the paddock there where he used to run
his cow.
Bandy has gone long since . . . and I am old,
And the forests are marching down.
The forests are marching down
Over the slopes that used to be sweet with grass.
The orchard trees on the higher slope have
gone,
Are ancient prisoners now *
In the mighty march of trees.
Forty years back they stood at the brow of the
hill,
An army watching the way we toiled below,
The way we laughed and sang
Keeping the acres clean.
But soon, soon it will all be lost,
Lost and forgotten, as if it had never been,
For Bob—he has been gone long since,
And his cat and the one-eyed dog.
The door of the empty shanty swings in the
wind
And shadows creep from the army at the gate.
The blackberries twine . . . And I am old . . .
The forests are marching down.
n.s.w.
PHYLLIS GURNEY MEEK.


PASTORAL SYMPHONY
The gorse-lined square is quiring
With music, sad or gay,
The skylark, high aspiring,
Chants hjs delirious lay;
Shrill trill the cries of crickets,
Grasshoppers stridulate,
While from the embattled thickets
The blackbird hymns his mate;
Far off an engine shrieks,
Church-bells weave their braid,
The mower’s whetstone sleeks
In rhyme his murderous blade;
Backstage the docks and clovers,
Where the cloud-shadow passes,
The nesting-flats of plovers
Fit in among the grasses;
The thoughtful cows still crop
With many a deep-drawn sigh
And melancholy plop
Of pats emeriti.
n.z. Arnold Wall.
♦ • » ♦
TAON’T know whether it’s got anything
to do with this matter of sex-chang-
ing, but the sex of a marine-worm, the
bonellia, is not determined in the ovum,
as with just about every other creature.
It happens this way. The female lives
in rock-crevices; her young look about
for another female, and, if unsuccessful
in the search, become females themselves.
The successful ones batten on to a
female, remaining much smaller and
utterly degenerate: they are the males,
complete parasites. It could be that the
men-turned-women, reversing the bonel-
lia’s tactics, are also intent on becoming
parasites . . . their chance of success
being greater, perhaps, if they can find
and batten on to (i.e., marry) one of their
former sex? —“Kros.”
♦ * * ♦
“Villefair”: Those Civic Fathers of
Burnie (Tas.) who contemplate co-opting
a herd of goats to eat the back lanes
into some order (B. 17/3/’54) are en-
larging on an idea tried out at Tuggerah
(N.S.W.) some years back. With paspa-
lum growing madly over footpaths and
roadsides, the menace of snakes became
very real, and by way of remedy the
by-law regarding straying stock was
winked at. But the paspalum was
scorned in favor of the more interesting
offerings from pushed-over garbage-cans,
offending parties being cows and horses.
In that, however, Tuggerah was luckier
than Burnie is likely to be —at least they
didn’t eat the cans, too.
* « « s
“Kerba”: I’d like to share “Archaen’s”
simple faith and believe that “If you
leave a bulldog-ant alone she’ll leave you
alone” (B. 17/3/ ’54), but painful mem-
ories linger long. It’s true that she never
gets into the jam or honey; still, I con-
sider I have as much right to sit on my
own woodheap as she has. That opinion
was obviously not shared by the lady the
time she hooked into me twice, without
formal declaration of war. One day
“Arch.” will be peacefully working in the
garden which his ant-friends keep so
“Now just suppose a man attacked you ”
free of other insects when a pair of red-
hot pincers will seize him. Thus will come
the true testing-time of that philosophical
tolerance, even warm friendship, he still
entertains for the old bulldog.
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: I’ve flushed quite a few
ground-larks, but instead of taking-off,
as “Villefair” (B. 24/3/’54) describes,
their usual performance was to scuttle
round in circles, cheeping piteously and
dragging what purported to be a disabled
wing stuck out at a most convincing
angle. If you want to see one of the
finest bits of virtuosity in the bird-world
look round till you spot the nest, then
walk towards it. The little brown actress
almost screams to attract your attention ;
she flops exhaustedly on the ground,
feebly waving the ostensibly-useless wing,
and renders the “helpless cripple” in a
way that would leave most of Holly-
wood’s stardom for dead. The act, how-
ever, is as stylised as the Japanese “No”
drama. It never varies from one bird to
another, and it’s a wonder to me that
the marauders it is designed to dazzle
didn’t wake-up to the stunt ages ago.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: If you’re mustering with
a team in thick scrub the Toos and emus
always tell you whether the man next
you is ahead or behind, as
they race across your track
ahead of or behind you. The
mere fact that they cross your
track is warning that there’s
somebody else in the vicinity,
for if you had started them
they’d race away. If you’re rid-
ing to meet your mate at a waterhole and
see the white cockatoos fly out scream-
ing when you’re still a mile or so away
you know he’s already there. The wild
ducks, flashing at racing-speed through
the river-gums ahead of you, will let him
know you’ve hit the river higher up, as
will the croaking nankeen crane that’s
just left the mud-flats —simply because
it’s travelling a bit faster than it nor-
mally does. And when that fleeing Too
you’ve met head-on stops and sits and
thinks a bit —well, it’s plain you’re not
the second man he’s just encountered ;
there are more about, and he’s working
out the best way to avoid being trapped.
Just go the way he doesn’t go, and quite
likely you’ll meet a mate before long.
* * * *
“Bass”: “Nimrod” tells of eight differ-
ent species of birds seen in one tree in an
hour (B. 10/3/’54). On my property not
seven miles from Perth Town Hall I’ll
show “N.” nearly twice as many in half
the time. At the moment they’d be
kookaburras, magpies, peewees, three
species of honeyeaters, doves, willie-wag-
tails, rainbirds, kingfishers, a red wattle-
bird and—pretending to be asleep—a
nankeen night-heron. That’s in a tree!
Fifty yards away, in the tea-tree thicket,
there are reed-warblers and wrens ; feed-
ing around the edge of the swamp are
straw-necked ibis and blue bald-coots-,
some wood-ducks are sunning them-
selves on the banks, and on the water
there are black ducks and dabchicks.
“Back, Smithers, back — dammit, don't crowd me!"
Some stilts are prospecting in the mud,
and dotterels and sand-pipers are making
tracks there, too. The air is thick with
swallows and martins, with an occasional
swift, and a swamp-harrier is floating
around selecting a meal. Throughout the
day a few crows will drop in, and we get
an occasional visit from parrots, black
cockatoos and pelicans. 1 almost forgot
the shags, of which there are a score,
All these can be seen at a glance, and any
dav Soon the cuckoos will be here, and
the first rains will bring the craiks, the
western coots, and the moorhens. Yes,
there’s still a lot of wild life around Perth,
*
* *
“Dustman”: Warning of the dangers
of swimming in the Swan River, a Perth
daily spoke of a shark seen in the “upper
reaches”—and mentioned a spot between
Perth waters and Fremantle. Far from
being in the “upper ‘ reaches”—which
would be a good 30 miles inland—the
spot isn’t even in the Swan River. It’s in
the Swan River estuary, a different thing
altogether. That estuary, which extends
at least 15 miles from Fremantle harbor,
is a drowned river. During the Ice Age,
when most of the world’s water was
locked in ice, the ocean-levels were any-
thing up to 400 ft. lower than they are
now, and the land areas were correspond-
ingly extended. As the ice melted, the
oceans rose and advanced inland, drown-
ing land and rivers and forming estuaries
where the plains led down to the new
coastlines. That happened around most
of the sou’-Westralian coast, where the
majority of rivers have estuaries. One
very good example is King George s
Sound. The pride of Albany, and one of
the finest harbors in the world, its a
drowned river.
* • * *
, , „ T , , . .« _ ;1
“Gravelsnatcher ; I doubt if any raff-
way-fettler ahve
snake-charmer (B. 17/3/54) first cm
to be applied to his particular calling.
I’ve heard most of the explanations, from
the way they used to tie their bowyangs
-to prevent snakes clmbing up their
legs—to the suggestion that the lengths of
rail were once referred to as snakes.
None l ye sq-far heard has sounded really
convincing.
MEN AND FLOWERS
In the early years of this century, when
morals were popularly and erroneously
supposed to be tighter than the trousers
then worn and record crops of mutton-
chop and sideboard whiskers were left
ungarnered, the carrying—and even wear-
ing!—of flowers in public by men was
considered as natural as that a lady should
appear unnatural in shape when encased
rigidly in whalebone.
Merely because he proudly wore an
extra-choice pansy from his own garden
in his button-hole was never regarded as
concrete evidence that he himself was
one. The man-about-town would set the
seal on his sophistication by presenting
such a bloom with quite a flourish to his
favorite barmaid —a charming gesture
which had in it never more than one
ulterior motive, because in those days
there was lashins of bottled-beer avail-
able for all.
Moreover, the gallant then knew no
inhibitions about the size of the bloom
he might sport. Were he an avid dahlia-
grower who loved to disbud his plants,
leaving on them only one bloom which
he would then grossly feed-up until it
had attained dinner-plate proportions,
how else could he make widely known
his skill, except at show-time, than by
wearing a bloom? To do so, he well
knew, would be to induce adulation in
the sex which for generations had associ-
ated flowers with the declaration of
affections.
Dry-cleaning was unknown in his day,
so that a gargantuan bloom also had the
added advantage of covering such beer-
and soup-stains as the top-left of his
coat collected.
He wore all sorts of horticultural speci-
mens in his lapel from a whole bunch of
violets, the stems cunningly concealed in
a glass phial filled with water at the back
of the lapel (which guaranteed day-long
freshness) to a magnolia, which flower
would, as well as embellishment, afford
him an inexpensive fragrance which the
perfume-conscious ladies of his time
found irresistible.
About the only flower never flaunted
from his button-hole was the lily; not
because of its size and shape, but because
it was generally conceded that it would
look better on his chest immediately after
all his earthly interest in horticultural
and other matters had finally vanished.
In the matter of carrying flowers in
public there were equally no inhibitions.
So established and accepted was the prac-
tice that he would never even get a “Hoi! ”
from the hoi polloi whose habitat was
the pub-steps. For the truth was the hoi
polloi practised the cult themselves,
though they made a minor concession to
their vaunted toughness by encasing the
first few inches of the flower-stalks in
brown-paper.
But, alas, all that grace and elegance
died with a vanished age! The tailor in
these unromantic days puts a slot in the
left coat-lapel only as a concession to
the possibility of the wearer’s putting in
a badge. He knows that no cineraria,
no magnolia, not even a solitary sweet-
pea will ever grace the product of his
skill.
The carrying of flowers, of course, is
still practised, but only with extreme fur-
tiveness. Never, however, by the Aus-
tralian lover. If “saying it with flowers”
is a necessary concomitant to his suit
he is, ipso facto, stricken dumb. It would
offend his masculinity to go to his girl’s
place carrying a bunch of something.
Should he be going to a dance and it is
expected of him that he supply a spray
of orchids, he will try to jam the box
into his hip-pocket en route, or wrap the
afternoon paper around it until he gets
right to her door.
After all, what chance have flowers got
of getting carried openly when even the
box of chocolates he is taking to his
inamorata he first insists on putting in
a brown-paper bag; and folding his over-
coat over it, in case his sissiness should
be discovered?
The visiting of female relatives in hos-
pital presents the big problem to the
he-man whose red blood revolts at the
idea of being burdened with flowers, I
have known men wait until the blackness
of night has descended before they
sneaked out to the car and surreptitiously
put the bunch of flowers in the boot, and
who, when they got to the hospital,
walked in swiftly with the floral offering
hidden behind their backs. On reaching
the bedside they would produce the offer-
ing like amateur prestidigitators, but with
a sheepish air of profound apology.
It is for these sundry reasons that I
now bring hope to men who have been
made supremely miserable by the shifts
to which they have been put in trying
to disguise their degradation and their
shame.
The company I represent has made
years of intensive research into this prob-
lem and is now able to package flowers
with a very wide range of disguises.
Just think! You can now carry a bunch
of roses made-up in the shape of a couple
of bottles of beer! A sheaf of gladioli
that can be mistaken for a football you
are carrying to night-training! Dahlias
which may seem to be nothing more than
a few books! The variety of concealment
is almost endless.
Send for free booklet to-day.
Bo.


9
Jt!
P
<y>
■i
m
m
m
■::■:■■
m
m
mm
‘ jToa asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes. Sir
Fitting accompaniment to smoothly
luxurious travel, BENSON and HEDGES
Super Virginia cigarettes are made
from the finest of fine tobaccos with
unhurried, untiring care for all those
occasions when only the best will do.
"V
«Y APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE LATE KING GEORGE VI
yon/?/ j/te sSeM
tifcU do'
1
1
Benson & Hedges Ltd. are proud to announce that their Super Virginia cigarettes are availabU
on the world's most famous airways, including all routes served by the following:
BRITISH EUROPEAN AIRWAYS • BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION • AER UNOU*
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM ■ Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS • AIR CEYLON • AIR FRANCE
EL-AL ISRAEL AIRLINES • AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL AIRWAYS • MALAYAN AIRWAYS
CYPRUS AIRWAYS • BRITISH COMMONWEALTH PACIFIC AIRLINES - SABENA • BRITISH
WEST INDIAN AIRWAYS • TRANS-AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES • PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
TRANSPORTES AEROS PORTUOUESES • CENTRAL AFRICAN AIRWAYS
BENSON 6? HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
tmw/ut
Business. Rollery. Etc.
International Balances
ALTHOUGH import-restric-
tions have now been
relaxed considerably in respect
of goods from soft-currency
countries, Australia had
another favorable balance of
payments on current account
during the six months to
December 31 last. Imports rose
by £67 million compared with
the same period of the preceding
year, while exports rose £34
million. The favorable balance
of payments for the later six
months was £5O million, which
was £29 million less than the
balance for the first half of
1952-
Taking capital-account items
in, the increase in Australian
international reserves during
July-Dee. last was £42 million,
compared with £76 million in
July-Dee., 1952.
Australia’s international re-
serves on December 30, 1953,
amounted to £592 million.
Australian export-values con-
tinued to grow after the 1951
slump. There was an increase
from £315.7 million in the first
half of 1951-52 to £400.3 million
in the first half of 1952-53 and
£433.8 million in the first half of
1953- The general increase
was chiefly due to increased
exports of wool at higher prices
—average price 82d, a pound
during July-Dee., 1952, com-
pared with 89.7 d. a pound
during July-Dee., 1953. In
respect of the same periods
quantities exported lifted from
476 million pounds to 515 million
pounds,
“In contrast with this improve-
ment,” Commonwealth Statis-
tician R. Carver comments,
“official estimates of Australian
wool-production show a reduc-
tion from 1300 million pounds
in 1952-53 to 1260 million
pounds in 1953-54, while wool
prices, which were strengthening
fairly steadily in late-1952 and
early-1953, were showing some
falling-away in late-1953 and
early-1954 to a level below the
1952-53 average.” More recently
there has been a slight rally in
wool prices at auction.
Among the import-increases
following the relaxation, the
most pronounced jump was in
textiles, which more than
doubled, and motor-vehicles and
parts, which almost doubled.
Imports from the dollar area
generally continued at a reduc-
ing rate.
Among the “invisible” items in
our international account, there
has recently been a drop in
freight and insurance charges on
petroleum products amounting
to several million pounds a half-
year. This has been reflected in
several reductions in the retail
price of petrol.
Expressed as a percentage of
f.o.b. values of imports, freight
and insurance charges decreased
from 17.9 p.c. in the first half of
1952-53 to 12.6 p.c. in the first
half of 1953-54. Expenditure on
foreign travel was lower in the
later period.
Among capital-account items,
public-authority debt domiciled
overseas was reduced in July,
1953, by the repayment of $2O
million (£8.9 million) of Aus-
tralian securities domiciled in
New York, but was increased in
December, 1953, when a loan of
£5.8 million was received from
Switzerland. Overseas debt was
also reduced by small amounts
through normal sinking-fund
operations.
Australia received $22 million
from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
in the first half of 1953-54 in
respect of two loans totalling
$l5O million negotiated in 1950
and 1952. The amount received
from the 1.8.R.D. in the first
half of 1952-53 was $l7 million.
In August, 1952, Australia
bought $3O million from the
International Monetary Fund,
increasing its total short-term
purchases from the I.M.F. to $5O
million. Repayments of these
amounts commenced in
“How much is the pig's face ?”
December, 1953, with a first
instalment of $l2 million.
For the complete year 1952-53
private capital movements repre-
sented a net outflow of funds
amounting to £5O million. This
was apparently due mainly to "the
remittance of balances built up
by Australian subsidiaries of
overseas companies.
In 1952-53 overseas inter-
company accounts appear to
have been reduced by £2O
million, more than offsetting an
increase of £l2-15 million in
overseas shareholdings in .Aus-
tralian companies.
In the first half of 1953-54,
when there was an apparent
outflow of £16.7 million on
private capital account, a
currency - depreciation scare
prompted some Australian
importers to make advance
remittances overseas.
An Attractive Parcel
An interesting parcel of scrip,
with yields above 5 p.c. and
prospects promising, would be a
hundred or so each of Bradford
Cotton at 345. 6d. (5.8 p.c.),
F. W, Hughes (195., 6.3 p.c.),
R. B. Davies Industries (245. 6d.,
6.5 p.c.). Minster, Ltd. (235..
6.5 p.c.), Frederic Ash (475. 6d.,
5.3 p.c.), and Masonite (475.,
5.3 p.c.).
Bradford spins and weaves
cotton and has rayon interests ;
F. W. Hughes has large pastoral,
wool-scouring, meat-canning and
textile interests; R. B. Davies is
the biggest mass-producer of
builders’ hardware in the Com-
monwealth ; Minster, Ltd.,
controls progressive carpet-
making and affiliated industries;
Frederic Ash is a solid and pros-
perous Newcastle hardware dis-
tributor with a chain of country
stores; and Masonite is a first-
class industrial enterprise making
high-quality building-board.
William Crosby (Holdings)
Registered in Melbourne in
February, this holding co.
bought all the capital in William
Crosby and Co. Pty., Ltd., issuing
370,000 £1 fully-paid ords. in
payment. A further 130,000
shares recently taken up by the
public at par brings the new
co.’s capital to £500,000. Mel-
bourne brokers William Noall
and Son underwrote and took
firm 100,000 of the new shares.
The business was established
in Hobart in 1853, and its early
interests were largely associated
with shipping between Tasmania
and England. Today the co. is
headquartered at Melbourne, and
has branches in Hobart, Laun-
ceston and Burnie (Tas.), and
Fremantle and Geraldton (W.A.).
Its activities now cover agencies
in Victoria, Westralia and Tas-
mania for the Ellerman and
Bucknall Steamship Co., Ltd.;
in Hobart for Shaw Savill and
Albion Co., Ltd.; and in Tas-
mania for Australian-Oriental
Line, Ltd., China Navigation
Co., Ltd., Royal Interocean Line
and Messageries Maritimes;
various insurance agencies,
including the Lloyds agency for
Hobart; and a variety of
merchandising and manufactur-
ing interests. The latter include
distribution of building materials,
farm and country storekeepers’
supplies and agricultural imple-
ments, and manufacture of
concrete products and chocolates.
In addition, the co. has “sub-
stantial” shareholdings in
stevedoring, salvage and ship-
repairing cos. in Melbourne,
Hobart and Fremantle, and a
“large” shareholding in Ballarat
Products, Ltd. Total share
investments figured at £155,033
at June 30 last. The new capital
will be used for expansion of
“many of these varied interests.”
Adjusted profits for the last
five years expressed as a per-
centage on proposed capital
were put as follows: 1949, 7.2
p.c.; 1950, 7.8 p.c.; 1951,
14.6 p.c.; 1952, 10.7 p.c.; 1953,
10.4 p.c. Net tangible cover,
after writing-up freeholds by
£39,596 and investments by an
undisclosed amount, is 19s. lOd.
a share. No indication is given
of the probable future dividend-
rate.
On the board are A. F. Crosby,
T. H. Swanton, C. C. Crosby,
J. F. Crosby.
Electric Light and Power
The Electric Light and Power
Supply Corp., Ltd., has lodged
a claim totalling £10,060,421
with the Land and Valuation
Court for compensation from
the Electricity Commission of
N. S. Wales. That is equal to
about £9 11s. a share on the co.’s
1,052,958 £1 shares.
In announcing the claim, the
board says:—
Although this is the claim which
is made by the company after receiv-
ing expert advice from valuers,
engineers and accountants, and is
therefore a claim which the com-
pany trusts will be accepted by the
court as a proper valuation, It is in
no way a valuation which must
necessarily be accepted by the court.
The board has no doubt that
skilled and vigorous attempts will
be made in the course of the pro-
ceedings to prove that the value of
the undertaking is far less than the
figure claimed. The decision as to
value is a matter for the court.
The board, therefore, stresses that
the value claimed by the company,
or for that matter any figure ad-
vanced by the commission, is not to
be treated as necessarily any indi-
cation of the value which will be
adopted by the court.
When the court fixes the com-
pensation, payment will be made
in 3y p.c. debentures bearing
interest from November 1, 1950
(the take-over date), and matur-
ing not later than October 31,
1965. The £1 shares last sold
in Sydney at 545.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HJS
WEARS A
NEO-
barbere
No Pads —
No Springs
The nbo-baerbke
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barbere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Si,), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
sdf
GUARD
PROTECTA
sUnl- SiM Rtyi4ivd*ig
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sale*. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleulnf Id appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
.. ..Docket Book (Jo. (Aim. I
<%>
£
yvr?i?in^y
mm
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
® ® ®
7S
X
V
\
: 1
■
-J
&
IS
ii
m
communications
AT MOST AIRFIELDS the pilot
does not have to give advance warn-
ing of his fuel requirements, for a
green and yellow fueller of BP
Aviation Service will be ready to
meet him. But at some lonely air-
fields in the hills or desert conditions
have not changed much since
supplies of BP gasoline were specially
laid down for Alan Cobham’s
pioneering survey flight from London
to Capetown in 1925.
At such places the pilot must state
his requirements. While he is still
in the air a signal will have to be
sent so that, on his arrival, his needs
will be met with the same courtesy
and attention that he has come to
expect at larger airfields.
AVIATION
m
SERVICE
THE
Operated in Australia by
COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LTD.
6/53
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Roads and Transport
Another lift in transport costs
postpones further the long-
hoped-for day when N.Z. can
expect to feel that it has the
upper hand on the most general
of all items in expanding national
overhead. As freight-rates have
been going up and up, on rail
and road, industry has had little
chance of making a stand against
cost-inflation, which is still the
most disturbing symptom in the
whole economy. The State-
owned railways have been
struggling to make ends meet
by the dubious process of
passing on costs in periodical
freight-rate and passenger-fare
increases, and road - transport
operators have been doing the
same, mainly to keep abreast of
rising wages in a spiralling
tendency that is making N.Z. one
of the most expensive countries
in the world in which to live.
While costs have been snow-
balling, N.Z. has been barely
holding its own against the wear
and tear which began in the
war years and continued on a
growing scale during the post-
war industrial boom, which is
still in progress, with a bias now
in the direction of timber, pulp
and paper concerns. Lately
Minister of Transport William
Goosman took a stand against
road - carriers who demanded
release from “intolerable restric-
tions,” and warned them there
was no margin for increasing
axle-loads or allowing heavy
trucks and buses to speed on the
open road, even if this would cut
operators’ unit-costs through
larger freights or time saved. If
they had their way N.Z. would
have to pay the piper to keep its
highways in usable condition,
and the cost would ruin it. The
roads, it seems, are taking as big
a thrashing as they can bear.
This defence came just before
the April “new deal” by setting
up a National Roads Board,
backed by a national fund, under
which road-users, mainly the big
fellows, will pay nearly twice as
much yearly in fees £1.75
million for the first twelvemonth
of the new order, against
£980,000 for the last year of the
old—and other sources of
revenue, such as the petrol-tax and
local rates, will yielch-more, too.
Altogether, N.Z. aims to
finance a £2O-million highways-
development programme for
years and years to meet the
demands of the motor age. This
huge outlay for a country with
only a two-million-odd popula-
tion is part of the price New
Zealanders have to shoulder for
the privilege of living in sparsely-
settled islands with a highways
network that would serve several
times the number without great
increase in cost. There is the
same difficulty with the railways,
which have a long mileage for
the quantity of stuff and the
passengers carried. On top of
this, N.Z. is a country of labor
shortages, which means that it
can’t get the best return for the
wages paid. No one in a respon-
sible position in transport,
whether by rail or road, thinks
the situation can be set right
until competitive conditions are
restored in the labor market.
As this is a problem that faces
all other N.Z. industries as well no
quick change is to be expected.
Certainly the “new deal” can’t
transform the outlook overnight.
Until the roads are built up
to safe standards, the 30-mile
limit on road-competition with
the railways must remain, and
traffic-cops will keep a sharp
lookout for carriers who try to
beat the regulations by over-
loading, ignoring speed-limits,
running more than 30 miles or
otherwise defying authority.
There’s always freight offering
for those prepared to take the
risk, for motor transport is more
flexible and handier than rail,
and there’s plenty of room on
the roads, particularly at night,
when law-breaking is easiest.
Urban roads and streets are
also cracking-up in places under
the pounding of diesels and
trolley-buses, and the cost of
repairing them is going to have its
effect before Jong on short-
distance fares and freights, which
must carry part of the financial
load. N.Z. is just waking-up to
the unpleasant truth that modern
transport can’t be operated with-
out modem thoroughfares.
Airports
If N.Z. isn’t careful it will load
its air services with a crippling
permanent overhead through try-
ing to develop more interna-
tional airports than are needed
in a small country, thus
tremendously handicapping itself
in the air age.
Today there are schemes in
three centres Christchurch,
Wellington and Auckland —to
spend in all at least £lO million
on airports. Christchurch is well
in the lead, with Harewood, the
terminal of last year’s air-race
from London, as the cheapest
proposition (£2 million) thanks
to a terrain eminently suitable
for the purpose, with approaches
as wide as the Canterbury Plains
on the one side and the Pacific
on the other. It has the other
centres whacked topographically.
The only natural handicap is
fog, which science can deal with
more easily than it can overcome
such obstacles as hills and wind
hazards.
Wellington’s Rongotai is about
the last place in N.Z. an overseas
expert would consider for an
airport, at a windy spot amid the
hills that encircle the capital,
but, as Wellington had no hope
of finding a site that was handy
and naturally safe, Rongotai got
the decision for lack of rivals,
although millions will have to be
poured out to make it a
moderately satisfactory pivot in
the airport system of the future,
i Its only merit is geographical,
seeing that it’s alongside the seat
of government and the head
offices of most leading enter-
prises. Probably it will cost as
much to develop as the other two
airports together, and when it’s
finished it will be the least
serviceable of the three.
Auckland lost a few" years
making up its mind, but the
choice went finally to Mangere,
a site with a good stretch of sea
and flat country around it that
put it in international class. Free
from the fogs that hang over
Whenuapai, Mangere ranks high
for safety flying, as Auckland
has found during the quarter-
century the present small aero-
drome has been in use there.
Strange that Auckland took
so long to recognise the merits
of this site and didn’t come
around to it until about nine
others had been studied and
rejected, but lucky that the last
was the easiest to develop as
well as the best. By spending
about £3 million here, N.Z.
should be able to equip itself
with an airport in the right posi-
tion on the air-routes of the
world, 14 miles from the heart of
the city and strategically placed
to link up with road and rail
services. As land-planes will be
on the trans-Tasman run soon
and jets will be flying on all
Empire routes within a decade,
there won’t be much time to lose
in making Mangere ready. It’s
another of the big projects that
will have to be pushed through
to keep Auckland on the map.
Power and Paper
All N.Z.’s pulp-and-paper
industry needs to put it right in
the front rank as a world com-
petitor within a few years, if
there’s any doubt about the out-
look as things are, is geothermal
power, which would cost a mere
fraction of the price of other
power. As the big mills will be
in the region for steam from
“down under,” this isn’t a wild
hope ; far from it, for the Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co.’s newsprint
and other plant at Kawerau will
be in the direct line for cheap
power, if it comes, which is no
longer a big “if,” and N.Z.
Forest Products’ mills, at Kin-
leith, will be near enough.
In March knight James
Fletcher, Tasman’s chairman,
saidi “Kawerau was chosen as
the site for this industry because
of its potential as a site for
geothermal - power production.
The co. has already sunk several
bores in the district to locate
areas where geothermal activity
is greatest. This power would
save the equivalent of 20,000
tons of coal yearly.”
Full of confidence over pros-
pects for the giant Murupara
scheme, this knight predicted
that the new industry would give
a good lift to N.Z.’s standard of
living. Within a couple of years
pulp and paper would be worth
millions of pounds a year to
N.Z, in savings and earnings. In
the first year, production would
be 70 million board-feet of
timber, 50,000 tons of pulp and
75,000 tons of newsprint, not to
mention a volume approaching
this in timber, pulp and com-
mercial paper from Kinleith.
Sales by the two cos. to Aus-
tralia should be worth some-
where round £l2 million by
1956-57. Dollar plant coming in
under the loan from the Yank
should help to give the Tasman
co.’s outfit a flying start.


How much
dsf
time will jonr
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet;
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
T. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R, FavielU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kaier*
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland »
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart t
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
TN the shipping (except intra-State) and
coal trades the outlook has brightened
considerably over the last couple of years,
and H.P.’s net earnings have responded.
But the possibility of political interference
and the uncertain character of industrial
relations makes the future doubtful; so
the cautious board has kept the div. at
12 p.c., which has been an annual event
since 1940, except in 1948 and 1949, when
11 p.c. was paid.
The fleet consists of two passenger-
vessels —Wanganella and Westralia—and
half a dozen freighters, and some lighters,
tugs, etc. The lot, together with plant, etc.,
of subsidiaries, stands in the books at
£1,288,568. Investments, which total
£2,512,772, consist of Government securi-
ties (£1,023,142) and shares in other cos.
(£1,489,630). The latter includes the scrip
in two colliery subsidiaries (Hebburn
and Metropolitan Coal), as well as hold-
ings in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-
Seaham, also in the coal trade, and in
A.W.A., Melbourne Steam, A.N.A. (20
p.c. interest) and Tasmanian Steamers
(50 p.c, interest).
Declared net earnings, etc., of parent
and subsidiaries have moved in this
way:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries^
( Dividends —■,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 121,614 80,000 12 p.C.= 90,000 1614 2,843,431
Subsidy adjustment, £24,794 .. .. 2,368,225
Unexplained reductions, £84,808 .. 2,283,417
1948. .140,315 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 27,815 2,311,232
Unexplained additions, etc., £87,391 2,398,623
Added res. subsidiaries, £159,700 2,558,323
1949.. 117,683 30,000 11 p.c.=82,500 6,133 2,563,456
Unexplained reduction, £28,104 .. 2,535,352
1950. .130.009 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 10,009 2,545,361
Unexplained additions, £95,138 .. 2,640,499
1951. .148,482 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 28.482 2,668,981
To replacement reserve, £121,850.. 2,790,831
From Federal Govt., £20,000 ..2,810,831
Unexplained addition, £46,884 ..2,857,715
1952. .121.966 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 1,966 2,859.681
To reserves, £159,685 3,019,366
Unexplained addition, £67,570 ..3,086,936
1953. .139,952 30,000 12 p.c.=90,000 19,952 3,106,888
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
The £139,952 (up £17,986) of profit
claimed last term covered the pref. div.
and 14.6 p.c. on the £750,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 12.2, 15.8, 13.3,
11.7 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1948.
Actually the result was better than
claimed. Consider the following compari-
son of p. and 1. figures:
Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1053.
Trading profit* .. ~ £190.825 £364,815
Income from investments .. 117,907 184,090
Surplus sale assets .. .. 60,645
Total £369,377 £498,905
Deduct—
Directors’ fees .. .. 1,600 1,750
Tax provision .. .. 121,113 193,395
To reserves 121,850 159,685
Inter-co. adjustment .. 871
Outside interests .. .. 2,848 3,252
Net profit 121.966 139.952
* After allowing for depreciation, £167,580, 1952 ;
£287,810, 1953.
Last term’s £364,815 (up £173,990) of
trading profit was written after allowing
a generous £287,810 (up £120,230) for de-
preciation. It came £134,465 (up £102,122)
from the parent -co. and £230,350 (up
£71,868) from subsidiaries. So returns
from subsidiary and other interests still
constitute the bulk of earnings.
Before writing the £139,952 of profit
claimed, £159,685 (up £37,835) was visibly
sent to reserves. Of the £159,685, £BO,OOO
was dropped into tonnage-replacement
account, because official allowances for
depreciation are inadequate to maintain
real capital at today’s cost of replacement.
Treating the £BO,OOO as a genuine charge,
but the remaining £79,685, together with
an unexplained addition of £67,570 to
reserves, as genuine profit, then last term’s
net result was £287,207, On that basis the
allowance for taxation (£193,395) would be
approximately Bs. in the £. The £287,207
was enough to cover the pref. div. and
show 34.3 p.c. on ord, capital. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) it was equal to only 6.5 p.c., the
size of reserves (£3,106,888), or ploughed-
back earnings, being largely responsible
for the high ratio of profit to ord. capital.
Financially the co. is well-shod, and
has been for many a year;
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. 2,668,981 2,859,681 3,106,888
Outside interests .. 55,712 55,776 60,137
Sundry creditorst 1,092,895 1,326,550 1,418,009
Inter-co. 10,082 193,503 185,711
Final dive. .. 67,500 67,500 67.500
£5,145,170 £5,758,010 £6,088,245
Freehold & leasehold 576,288 614,108 643,546
Ships, plant, etc. 632,399 1,360,967 1,288.568
Government bonds 1,252,280 1,007,222 1,023,142
Shares, etc. .. 1,438,507 1,472,463 1,489,630
Stores . . .. 189,909 260,110 255,152
Sundry debtors .. 1,053,757 1,036,053 1,116,978
Cash . . . . 2,030 2,092 271,229
£5,145,170 £5.753,010 £6,088,245
t Including taxation.
% Due to variation in balancing-dates.
The growths of £269,137 in the cash hold-
ing and of £80,925 in book-debts further
reflect the year’s better trading. The
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc,,
is more than covered by the total of book-
debts, stores and cash. The fine pile of
Government securities (up £15,920) is
thus available for further expansion of
the co.’s interests, or such other purpose
as the board may decide.
The immediate outlook points to an-
other good showing at next balance. Still,
although the upward spiral of wage-rates
has been halted, the cost of operating
ships on the Australian coast remains very
high, and is aggravated by incidental
hold-ups, such as stop-work meetings.
Hence the chairman’s remark that lower
freight and other charges could be con-
templated if the volume of work were
increased. Unlike a factory, the econo-
mics of a ship is comparatively inflexible.
The market sums up the position by
pricing tne f.-p. £1 ords at 48s. (50s. 6d.
a year ago) to return 5 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. The 6 p.c. prefs. at 225. 4d.
yield 5.4 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £8 14s. 3d. prefs. and 102 s. lOd.
ords.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
TI7ITH the emphasis on quality, style
’ ’ and value, which have their roots
in plant and managerial efficiency, this
Holeproof group stepped along like a
beauty-queen in the years since World
War 11, until temporarily checked by the
change in the economic climate of a
couple of years "ago. Paid capital shot
up from £205,955 in 1945 to £1,026,685
at the close of last accounts by cash issues,
which brought with them £137,669 of
share-premiums. Over the same period
reserves were lifted from £61,348 to
£519,877, and the div. climbed from 8
p.c. to p.c. for the three years to
1950, followed by 6, 8 and then 12| p.c.
last term.
Using wool, nylon and other synthetic
fibres, as well as silk and cashmere, the
parent and its two operating subsidiaries
—Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., and Hole-
proof Apparel, Ltd. —turn out women’s
hosiery, men’s socks, ties, shirts, rain-
wear and sportswear, etc. The output of
men’s and women’s hosiery is equal to
about 20 p.c. of total Australian pro-
duction. Last year the parent bought the
£lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. capital in the Apparel
co. in exchange for a like amount of its
own 5 p.c. prefs.
Considering the break in wool and
cotton prices, and the stickiness of trade
and other difficulties, the co. made a very
satisfactory showing over the two years
to 1952:
Holeproof and SußsiDUßißs.t
( Dividends N Nominal
t Pref. —Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 10$ p.c. serves.*
£, £,£>£> £* £
Added reserves, £1367.. .. .. 170,846
’49.. 77,223 2215 3000 8750 24,268 209,836
Share premiums, £36,650 .. .. 246,486
Added reserves, £1627 .. .. 248,118
To contingencies, £35,000 .. .. 213,113
’50.. 137,243 2215 8000 9624 33,287 302,230
Share premiums, £57,000 .. .. 359,230
Expenses written off, £lBBO ~ 357,350
Added reserves, £lBl7 .. .. 359,167
To outside interests, £22,198 .. 336,969
Less adjustments, £10,867 .. .. 326,102
6 p.c.
>51.. 130,316 2215 8000 13,000 24,926 413,277
Added reserves. £584 ~ . r .. 413,816
8 p.c.
’52.. 88,787 2215 3000 15,500 41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 .. .. 410,813
Added reserves, £2752.. .. .. 413,565
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 423,565
12$ p.c.
’58.. 170,047 2215 3000 18,000 66,020 504,377
From contingencies, £15,500 .. .. 519,877
f After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
* Subject to intangibles, £21,352, at Dec. 31, 1953.
More heartening are last term’s remark-
able resilience of net earnings and lift in
the div., already referred to. After allow-
ing £160,085 (up £49,066) for deprecia-
tion and £191,461 (up £79,303) for taxa-
ation, the net result was £81,260 stronger
at £170,047. That covered the pref. divs.
(£23,215) and 27,8 p.c. on average ord.
capital, compared with 13.1, 27.7, 38.6,
27.3 and 21.6 p.c. back to 1948. So the
12£ p.c. distribution, of which 3£ p.c.
is called bonus, was a comfortable matter.
The profit, however, includes 18-months’
trading by the Apparel co., the first twelve
of which resulted in a loss of £2064 and
the remaining six in a profit of £23,074.
It was in the men’s socks and apparel
sections that most of the trouble occurred
in 1952. Last term demand for all the
co.’s products strengthened as the year
advanced, and turnover reached a new
peak, passing the - £4-million-mark. A
smaller labor turnover contributed to im-
proved efficiency, and the rise in labor
wage-costs was comparatively moderate.
Also the plant is modern and flexible,
which ought to mean much so far as the
ever-changing demands of fashion are
concerned.
The financial structure was brought
into better balance and the liquid position
improved:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital—
Ord £514,000 £514,000 £539,000
Pref 387,685 387,685 487,685
Reserves .. .. 413,277 410,813 519,877
Outside interests 282,198 288,412 188,187
Mortgages . . 259,060 268,340 267,620
Overdraft .. 104,201 282,753
Creditors . . . . 410,185 431,464 419,339
Inter-co. suspense 106,226 177,735
Tax reserves* . . 346,284 358,652 388,600
Final divs. .. 27,756 32,793 66,993
£2,744,646 £3,071,138 £8,055,036
Freehold, plant,
etc 1,140,770 1,214,696 1,266,748
Shares other cos. 275 4,175 4,175
Stocks . . . . 1,262,293 1,501,471 1,172,283
Inter-co. suspense 88,260
Book debts .. 231,101 328,810 219,841
Cash, etc. .. 562 596 370,637
Goodwill .. .. 21,385 21,390 21,352
£2,744,646 £3,071,138 £3,055,036
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Stocks (in at the lower of cost or market
price) were reduced by £329,188, and
book-debts were £108,969 lower, despite
bigger trading. Thus, together with surplus
earnings and allowances, the co. was able
to wipe out the overdraft (£282,753 at
the previous balance) and strengthen the
holding of cash, etc. by £370,041. When
the books closed the outside debt (includ-
ing final div.) amounted to 64.8 p.c, of
more-or-less liquids as against 74.7 p.c.
a year earlier.
Since the books were ruled off turnover
has been buoyant, due partly to the
stimulus of the Royal visit. Also the co.
recently entered into an agreement with
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd., to make
and sell men’s socks under Holeproof’s
trade mark “Zealon.” * This will not
affect the financial structure of either co.
The sharemarket, which notes the size
of the inventory and of the outside debt,
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at 9s. (6s. 9d. a
year ago) to return 7 p.c. on a p. c .
distribution. At 30s. 9d., 21s. 6d. and
16s, 6d. the 8 p.c. A, 6 p.c. B and 5 p.c
C prefs. (all of £1 each) yield 5.2 p.c.j
5.6 p.c. and 6 p.c. respectively. Net tan-
gible cover is £55 A, £29 19s. B and
£3 10s. 7d. G prefs., and 9s. 7d. ords.
Sutex Industries, Ltd.
Directors of this 21-year-oid textile
group attribute its encouraging per-
formance over the last two terms—a
bleak period for many sections of the
trade—to these factors: (1) the high
quality and wide variety of its products,
(2) marketing of made-up goods under
its own well-known brands and (3) wide
distribution of its output. Other facets
of a progressive yet prudent managerial
policy appear to be heavy investment in
modern plant, liberal initial depreciation
allowances and conservative valuation of
stocks.
The organisation consists of parent and
six operating subsidiaries, and there are
factories at Richmond, Bendigo and
Hawthorn (Vic.) and Hobart (Tas.).
Manufactures include worsted yarns and
cloths, knitted outerwear and underwear,
swimwear, full-fashioned stockings and
baby shawls. Woollen goods account for
about 80 p.c. of the total.
The co. first saw light of day in 1933
as Southern Textiles Pty. In 1937 the
name was changed to Sutex, Ltd. (paid-up
capital £llO,OOO, including £25,000p.c.
pref. money), and the shares were listed
on Melbourne ’Change. Dividends were
7, 7 and p.c. to 1940, then 8 p.c. till
1946, 9 p.c. in 1947 and 10 p.c. in 1948.
From there the following table picks up
the story:
Sutex, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
z Dividends N To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. < Ord. serves, serves.*
7$ & 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1949..58,724 3,126 12$ p.c. = 23,937 31,662 124,357
Added on acquisition of subsidiary,
£1236 125,593
Profit sale assets, £216 .. .. .. 125,809
1950..67,963 3,125 12$ p.c. = 35,906 28,932 154,741
Sutex Industries and Subsidiaries.
Revaluation assets, £160,000 .. .. 314,741
Profit sale assets, £2lOB .. .. 316,849
Preliminary exes., £3082 .. .. 313,767
Pref.
Sept.,f 7J & 5$ p.c.
1951.-74,976 8,922 12$ p.c. = 41,891 24,163 337,930
Profit sale assets, £2441 .. .. 340,371
Unexplained increase, £B3B .. .. 341,209
1952..63,175 9,812 9 p.c. = 44,811 8,652 349,761
Profit sale assets, £12,612 .. .. 362,373
To bad debts provision, £2OOO .. 360,373
1953..78,085 9,818 9 p.c. = 44,810 23,462 883.835
* After deducting intangibles, now £BOOO.
t Includes results of operating cos. to June 30.
Shareholders of Sutex, Ltd., swapped
their holdings for scrip in a new holding
co., Sutex Industries, Ltd,, in 1950.
Spurred by hungry and sheltered
markets, the business has made swift pro-
gress since the war. Paid capital has shot
up from £164,500 in 1945 to £672,000,
including £175,000 in prefs., £25,000
carrying 1\ p.c. and £150,000 5i p.c. It
has the support and assistance of
£383,835 in visible reserves, of which
£160,000 came from a revaluation of
freeholds in 1951.
The board is silent on the subject of
turnover, but the early months of last
term were “difficult,” and gross trading
profit fell by £18,468:
Consolidated Figures.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Trading profit .. ~ £253,076 £212,162 £193.694
Exes 45,957 56,161 50,105
Depreciation .. .. 67,593 44,623 24,034
Tax 64,550 48.203 41,470
Net profit .. .. £74,976 £63,175 £78.085
So all the improvement of £14,910 in
the net figure was due to a smaller bill
for exes, (down £6056) and reduced
charges for depreciation (down £20,589,
due to the absence of initial allow-
ances) and tax (down £6733). The £78,085
claimed covered the pref. requirements
(£9813) and 13.7 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 10.7 p.c. in 1952.
During the year the co, worked stocks
down by £143,782 and slashed £192,528


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Mr
:k
I
Established ISUti in Reign of,
Oeofge 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
•c
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
BRANDAUERS
PENS
ft?
m
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
« * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208,
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Consultants & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Ruth uiiJw
FMtwt
The March of Time. How often have we heard
that phrase, how little have some of us tended to
heed it. Yet it binds in four words one of the great
mysteries of human existence.
Man, in his finite way, measures Time in seconds
and hours, in years and centuries. It was rolling on
between the twin eternities of Past and Future before
he was born, it will go on turning the tomorrows into
yesterdays long after his own span of it has been run.
In today’s world, Australians have a particular
responsibility, to make the most of their God-given
time. They are heirs to the 166 years that have gone
into making this country what it is. They are
bequeathers of what they will make for the future by
their own faithful labours.
The past is gone, with its achievements; crowded
also with mistakes and neglected opportunities. It
cannot be recalled. But even the imperfections of Life
have their merit, just as the mark of the potter’s thumb
or the dropped weave in a carpet give value to the
article turned out from a craftsman’s hand.
Were it not so. Life would be a monotone of
flawless patterns, with none of the great correcting
influences that have urged men on to better things,
right down through the ages.
For the Christian especially, Time in its march
can never be a mere sequence of events ; it is the
design of God working on the human spirit, directing
hearts in the Christian way, towards the goal that is
the purpose of every forward surge.
It requires effort, as all marches do. But there
is a fine line between the effort that gives happines
and that which just produces strain and weariness.
The difference is so close that it becomes really an
attitude of mind. That higher attitude is what Australia
needs now, both in leadership and in the broad
national will to get things done.
Time in its seasons will water the land. It will
bring up the crops, take the stock on to maturity. But
it stops short of the miracle. It asks Man to conserve
what Nature gives—it demands, above all, that he
keep on the march.
36in.
" f '
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
off the overdraft, thus bringing
the financial structure into better
balance:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—■ 195 2 - 195
Pref .. £175,000 £175,000
Ord.' ’.! .. 497,000 497.000
Reserves .. • • 849,761 383,835
Secured loan .. 50,000 75,000
Deferred liability 78,687 67,852
Overdraft • • 282,156
Creditors . . 201,490 256,845
Inter-co. suspense 7,681 4,397
Final divs. .. 47,264 24,859
£1,689,939 £1,575.316
Freeholds •• 307,389 343,917
Plant, etc. .. 190,973 167,812
Shares, etc. .. 69,920 70,175
Stocks .. .. 830,062 686,280
Debtors .. .. 291,436 306,928
Cash .. .. 159 204
£1,689,939 £1,575,316
Excess of current assets over
external liabilities at balance-
date was £474,831 (up £20,452).
The board reports that current
trading conditions are buoyant,
“and indicate a full recovery
from the recession.” Group
production, turnover and profits
for the December half-year were
higher than in the same period of
1952. Interim ordinary div. is
5£ p.c., against 4j p.c, last year.
The outlook suggests that busi-
ness conditions generally will
remain good till the end of the
financial year at least. Trouble,
if any, is likely to come from
overseas, in the shape of reduced
export income and sharper com-
petition from imported goods.
Those hurt least will be efficient,
forward-looking concerns, into
which category Sutex seems to
faff.
At 7s. 9d. the co.’s ss. ords.
return a satisfactory 5.8 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis, or 8.1 p.c. should
the rate go to 12£ p.c. The 7|
p.c. and 5i p.c. 10s. prefs. at
12s. 6d. and Bs. sd. respectively,
yield 6.2 p.c. Net assets cover
is 60s. 4d. prefs. and Bs. lOd.
ords.
J. C. Ludowici & Son
TIJOR the first time since the
war this nearly-century-old
business has run into a patch of
sticky trading. The slip in net
earnings for the year to
December 31 last was £9183, and
the div. was lowered from 15 p.c.
to 12 p.c., with little to spare.
For the f.-p. £1 ords., which fell
from 48s. in March, 1953, to
40s. 6d. a month or so ago,
buyers recently offered 395. with
sellers standing off' at 425, At
the middle figure of 40s. 6d. the
return would be 5.9 p.c. on a
12 p.c. div. basis.
The market is thus doubtful
whether better than 12 p.c. need
be expected in the near future.
The 5 p.c. first and 6 p.c. second
prefs. at 17s. and 20s. yield 5.9
p.c. and 6 p.c. respectively—there
is £50,000 of each class of pref.
in a paid capital of £225,000.
Net tangible cover (book-value)
is £6 Is. 7d. first, £5 Is. 7d.
second and 325, Bd. ord.
Here is a comparison of net
earnings, divs,, etc.:
Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves.
£/ & £>
1946 .. 11,589 17Jp.c.*=13,878 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. 67,850
1947 .. 11,589 12ip.c. =12,500 66,939
1948 .. 19,478 15 „ ~15,000 71,417
1949 .. 25,715 15 ~ ~16,875 80,257
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 55,257
Pref.Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c.
1950 .. 25,312 5 15 20,000 60,569
1951 .. 31,375 5 15 21,250 70,694
From staff funds, £915 .. 71,609
1952 . . 30,289 5&6 15 23,416 78,482
1953 .. 21,106 5&6 12 20,500 79,088
* Includes 5 p.c. bonus.
Last term’s £21,106 of profit
covered the pref. divs. and 12.5
p.c. on ord. capital as against
20.5, 23.1, 19.2, 25.7, 19.4 and
11.5 p.c. back to 1947. It was
written after allowing £2590 (up
£669) for depreciation and £B5OO
(down £6000) for taxation, which
was at the rate of only ss. 9d. in
the £.
Turnover continued to decline
during the first half of 1953, due
largely to slackening of activity
in the engineering and motor
trades, but picked up during the
second half. Immediate prospects
are encouraging, the board says.
There is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest a relapse of
turnover, and costs are steadier.
But whether the current term’s
result will warrant payment of
anything better than 12 p.c, to
the ords. is doubtful. The long-
term outlook for the business
appears to be one of steady
growth.
Broadly the policy has been
to distribute profits as they are
won. For the nine years to the
close of last accounts the ord.
div. averaged approximately 14
p.c. Until toward the end of
1952 the period was mainly one
of rapid expansion under very
favorable conditions, some of
which have passed, or are'
passing, away.
The co. enjoys a wide reputa-
tion, extending throughout the
Commonwealth and New
Zealand and to near-by Asiatic
countries and Indonesia, as a
tanner and producer of leather
beltings and industrial leathers
and accessories, as well as power-
transmission engineers. The
manufacture of leather gloves,
and some other lines, also con-
tribute to the pool, and so do
branches at Melbourne and
Adelaide. Recently an interest
was acquired in A. Flavell, Pty.,
sheet-metal workers, Melbourne.
Balance-sheet movements were
in the right direction:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. £175,000 £225,000 £225,000
Reserves .. 70,695 78,483 79,089
Liabilities* 255,135 176,045 161,596
Final div. .. 9,560 9,800 7,925
£510,393 £489,328 £473,610
Freeholds .. 113,613 114,967 114,967
Plant, etc. .. 33,721 38,887 40,838
Mortgage .. 1,845 1,557 1,461
Stocks . . 206,052 224,938 199,910
Book debts . 135,243 88,367 96,517
Cash, etc. .. 19,919 21,112 19,917
£510,393 £489,328 £473,610
* Includes an unspecified provision for
taxation.
A reduction of £25,028 in stocks
(in at valuation) was accom-
panied by a cut of £14,449 in out*
side liabilities and growth of
£Bl5O in debtors’ balances.
When the books closed liabilities
(including final div.) were equal
to 53.6 p.c, on more-or-less
liquids as against 55.5 p.c. a year
earlier.
W.A. Petroleum Ply., Ltd.
A new phase is about to begin
in development of the co.’s oil
find, as well as in its hunt for
further petroleum-bearing areas,
in Westralia, where it has applied
for 18 new prospecting licences.
Half of them are in and around
the Exmouth Gulf area, where
the co.’s No. 1 well struck oil —
the flow has been temporarily
sealed off —in the Rough .Range
structure at 3605 ft. The other
half, which total 17,000 square
miles, are in the Kimberley
coastal district.
Presently a start is to be
made to sink 11 new develop-
mental and exploratory wells, and
it is expected that more than
£2,700,000 will be spent on this
and other work by the end of
1954.
Early in March the co. bought
the Federal Government’s deep-
well oil-drilling equipment for
£375,000. The Government,
which for years had nursed but
not used this plant, claimed a
profit of £39,142 on the deal.
When the necessary roads and
living quarters, etc., have been
constructed, it is intended to use
the plant in the Kimberley area,
where the Government itself
originally intended to test-bore.
In addition two mobile fast-
drilling T 32 rigs have been
bought in the U.S. at a cost of
about £178,500 each. They are
expected to arrive at Fremantle,
one this month and the other in
May. These rigs, which have a
94ft. head-frame, are designed
to drill to a depth of over
3600 ft. in a period of about
three weeks. The first one is to
be put at work on the Rough
Range structure, where half a
dozen developmental wells are
to be sunk by the end of 1954,
or thereabouts. The second one
is to be used to test-drill the
structure between Rough Range
and Carnarvon.
The No. 1 well at Rough
Range started off as an explora-
tory bore to probe sub.-strata for
geological information. It has
been sunk by a National 130
rig, capable of drilling to a depth
of 17,000 ft. At March 30
the hole had reached 7650 ft.,
without disclosing anything of
further significance so far as
the presence of oil is concerned,
Results of the new develop-
mental and exploratory work
will be awaited with widespread
interest. Ampol Exploration,
Ltd., holds a 20 p.c. share-
interest in the proprietary or
drilling co., and Ampol Petro-
leum Ltd., owns 70 p.c. ot tne
issued capital in Ampol Explora-
tion.


Women's Letters
MELBCDDNE
Lady Brookes, who with her husband,
Sir Norman Brookes, will leave shortly on
a holiday trip to England and the Con-
tinent, was given a farewell luncheon at
the Queen Victoria Hospital by her com-
mittee—a tribute to her for having worked
so long in bringing the Q.V. from a 65-
bed hospital to one housing 600. The
Governor’s lady, wearing a frock of
white silk with an etched design in black
and cinnamon-brown &nd a small black
hat trimmed with grosgrain, was accom-
panied by Marion McPherson. The guest-
of-honor chose a fine black wool frock
which had a pleated skirt; a trail of tiny
white flowers trimmed her small white
beret.
Mrs. H. R. Hamer, who will act as
president in Lady Brookes’s absence, pre-
sented the guest-of-honor with a parcel
of books. Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh, Mrs.
M. H. Baillieu and Mrs. M. Patrick were
responsible for the wealth of floral
decorations. Also present were Lady
Martin, Mrs. Albion Walkely, Mrs. Louis
Nelken, Mrs. U. Robertson Smith, Mrs.
J. A. Gilruth, Mrs. W. L. Podmore, Dr,
M. Kerman, Miss A. Michaelis, Miss
Marea Lucas, Dr. J. H. Lindall and his
wife, the Minister for Health (Mr. Barry),
Mrs. F. H. Wright and Mrs. A. G.
Hunter.
ft ft ft
Madame Caroline Chambrelent’s new
collection of autumn and winter fashions
revealed a new silhouette, which is both
curved and slim. Very feminine and
flattering, it is modelled on the Dior
“look,” being wide at the shoulders,
moulds the body, curves out again at the
waist and then tapers away slimly to the
hem. Skirts are to be much shorter this
season: Chambrelent’s are 14in, to 15in.
from the ground
A new fabric was seen for the first time
in this collection: Chrystaline, a mixture
of silk and wool. One of the most attrac-
tive frocks in this material was in grey
and black tonings. The moulded bodice
had an unusual upstanding collar at the
back and finished in a deep V-neckline
in front. This was banded with the re-
verse side of the material. The skirt
showed the new slim trend.
Lovely vibrant colors most suitable for
grey winter days were used a great deal.
An emerald-green suit in soft tweed had
the pockets of the moulded jacket but-
toned with tabs of the tweed, this motif
being repeated on one lapel. Bright scar-
let (another excellent “grey day” color)
in jersey made a frock with a curved
inset cummerbund finishing the wide-
topped bodice ; this was worn under a
dark-grey topcoat cut on straight lines
with inset sleeves and dropped shoulders.
Beaver fur was a notable feature as
trimming on suit-jackets and coats. A
Jean Desses suit of thick wool in a subtle
shade of beige had the jacket with a
beaver collar; the slim skirt was given
extra width by inverted pleats at the
hem. A Pierre Balmain frock, slim and of
black wool, had the bodice gathered into
a deep V-neckline ; the gathering con-
tinued through the waist to finish in a
full, fringed sash at one side at the hip.
Pewter - grey, black - and - white - flecked
tweed made a suit and topcoat, and with
them went a blouse of bumt-orange wool
—an excellent effect.
Snow-leopard was another fur used.
Velvet was also an attractive finish for a
model suit. Fashioned of black wool, the
basque was split at the back where black
velvet (it edged the jacket) finished in a
flat bow. The high, upstanding collar at
the back of the jacket was also of velvet.
The attractive hats worn with the suits
and coats were by Thomas Harrison.
These were worn straight on the head
and were notable for the quality of the
material and their simple lines.
ft ft ft
Warm sunshine bathed the lovely garden
of Glynt, the Mt. Martha home of Mr.
and Mrs. Leonard R. Buxton, where
almost 300 guests gathered for a recep-
tion following the wedding of their
youngest daughter, Carolyn. The cere-
mony took place at St. Macarlan’s,
Mornington, Fr. Brendan Rogers
officiating.
For her wedding Carolyn wore a gown
of oyster-white satin brocade, woven with
a design of half-wreaths of silver and
oak leaves cut on classical lines ; it had an
overskirt falling from the waist at the
back and extending into a long circular
train. The full tulle veil was caught by
a coronet of baguette and oval-shaped
rhinestones. Carolyn carried a sheaf of
Easter lilies and bouvardia. The bride’s
two sisters, Mrs. Ross Batten and Mrs.
John Teague, were matrons-of-honor and
Ann Forrest and Barbara Coleman were
bridesmaids. Their short bouffant frocks
were of pearl-white slipper satin. The
bodices had wide V-necklines and the
skirts billowed out over stiffened petti-
coats. They wore picture-hats on the
lines of a Dolly Varden bonnet, these of
white tulle, with narrow grosgrain rib-
bons binding the shallow crowns and
crossing at the back to fall in two ends to
the hems of their dresses. Their bouquets,
like the bride’s, were of Easter lilies. The
bridegroom—Dr. John Stoney, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. D. J. Stoney, of St.
Kilda—had Dr. Gordon Rennick as best-
man and Dr. Desmond O’Brien, Christo-
pher Jenkins and David Funston were
groomsmen.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Candide,” a delightful ballet based on
Voltaire’s story and danced to the music
of Rossini with choreography by Karl
Vassilkovsky, had its world-premiere at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, when members of
the Borovansky ballet also presented a
very dashing interpretation of “Schehera-
zade” and “La Boutique Fantasque.”
English visitors Col. and Mrs. G. L. M.
Culverwell were among the large audi-
ence ; they were with Mrs. G. Barnard.
A stunning royal-blue chiffon gown and
wide matching stole was the choice of
Mrs. Frank Tait; Mrs. Ronald Marriott
(who accompanied her mother, Mrs.
F. H. Wright) chose a charming ballerina
frock of parma-violet lace with a scal-
loped off-the-shoulder neckline; Mrs.
Neville Fraser chose a dinner-gown of
anthracite-grey chiffon, with the bodice
cut wide to the shoulders at the neckline
and finished with a spray of pink and grey
French roses. Mrs. E. L. G. Cresswell
was accompanied by her daughter Eliza-
beth, just back from a trip overseas. Mrs.
Jean Davies wore a graceful gown of
rose-pink satin brocade, and Gillian Pain
a bouffant short black Chantilly-lace
frock.
Mrs. K. G. Luke, whose husband, well-
known in the business world , is president
of the White Ensign Club, assists him in
his work as president of the ladies' com-
mittee responsible for entertaining and
raising money for the club. She is also
chairwoman of the "Cogs," a group of
women who yearly raise money and
choose an organisation to benefit from
their efforts. Mrs. Luke spends her time
between the city and Romsey, where she
runs the cattle- and sheep-studs. Mr. and
Mrs. Luke have one small daughter,
Jennifer. John Warlow photo.
After a quiet ceremony in a private
chapel at Olinda, Valerie, younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Keast,
and her bridegroom, John Leslie, only
son of Judge and Mrs. Stafford, of Ivan-
hoe, drove back to the Keast home in
Whitehorse-road, Balwyn, for the recep-
tion. Valerie’s bridal gown of magnolia
satin was On classical lines, and a coronet
of pearls held the elbow-length tulle veil.
She carried an ivory prayer-book and
gardenias. Sister of the bride, Joan, and
the bridegroom’s sister, Wendy, were
bridesmaids. They wore bouffant frocks
and matching jackets of pale-lilac pure-
silk taffeta, with small matching hats and
shoes, John Backhouse, of Geelong, was
best man, and R. W. Gregory grooms-
man.
SYDNEY
So the Royal tour is over and the
Queen and the Duke are homeward-
bound to a reunion with their children
and a round of duties in familiar places.
It is curious to consider what impressions
remain to them after two crowded months
in Australia, for those of us who have
made a short tour of only one State
know how hard it is to remember each
place vividly, how recollections run to-
gether. Indeed, were the Royal couple
by ill chance to be prevented from visit-
ing Australia again, it is just possible
that 30 or 40 years hence a conversation
such as the following might take place
between them:
“I’ve been thinking, Philip, of our
wonderful trip to Australia so many
years ago, of Melbourne with its beautiful
harbor”——
“Sydney, dear. It’s Sydney that has
the harbor. Melbourne has the Cup.
Don’t you remember, Blue Ocean won
it when we were there.”
“That wasn’t the Melbourne Cup, that
was the Queen Elizabeth Stakes in Sydney,
It all comes back to me now. You didn’t
stay for the race, you went off to see Sir
Donald Bradman play cricket.”
“Don Bradman was in Adelaide. We
both met him there, remember? You
went to the cricket-match yourself.”
“Did I really? Dear, dear! The things
a monarch has to do!”
“You should remember South Aus-
tralia, you know. It was there that the
aborigines danced a corroboree for you
that they’ve never danced for any other
woman.”
“Ah, no! Of that I’m quite certain.
‘Corroboree’ was at the Tivoli Theatre,
Sydney. I have the programme.”
“Perhaps you’re right, my dear. Do
you remember that beautiful ball in
Melbourne?”
“Indeed I do. All the people were
young.. That was strange, wasn’t it?”
“Unique, I think.”
“And the darling little koalas in the
gum-trees! ”
“Koalas at a ball in Melbourne?
Surely not! I think they were at Wagga
Wagga, where you opened Parliament.”
“Philip, dear. I opened Parliament at
Canberra, which is the capital of Aus-
tralia.”
“Are you sure? Wagga Wagga is much
better known, isn’t it?”
“That’s true, and the places are rather
similar in appearance, except that Wagga
Wagga has a main street,”
“What a wonderful memory you have!
Do you remember Perth?”
“I’ll never forget it. A beautiful little
city, and they let me off of hand-shaking
there for some reason.”
“I liked West Australia. All those hot
springs and geysers and mud-pools and
things. Most exciting!”
“I rather think that was Rotorua in
New Zealand. But it was all very
interesting, wasn’t it?”
“Tiring for you, dear.”
“I didn’t mind. I enjoyed it because,
though things didn’t always go quite
right, everyone was obviously doing their
very best to please me. I appreciated
that because I was doing my very best,
too.”
But, of course, the Queen and the
Duke will come back to Australia, again
and again it is to be hoped. Then their
memories of this land will crystallise in
their minds and they will be able to
absorb the atmosphere and characteristics
of each place in a quiet and leisurely
way.
In the meantime we have memories of
them that are vivid and impressive. Two
pictures of the Queen keep recurring to
the mind’s eye. One is of a devoted little
figure bending to plant a tree in memory
of Australian soldiers who fought for
the Commonwealth of Nations. The
other sees her, clad in the Coronation
dress, flashing with diamonds, as she
turns at the top of the steps of Parliament
House, Canberra, to show herself to her
people. A beautiful young Queen in a
beautiful young country.
ft ft ft
For the opening of the 1954 subscrip-
tion season of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra many members of the audience
wore evening dress, among them Mrs,
Hope Gibson, Mrs. Norman Jenkyn, Mrs,
Allen Williams and Mrs. Hector Living-
ston, whose dress of black Chantilly lace
was ballerina-length. The Town Hall
was packed out, naturally, as it is well-
nigh impossible to get on the subscrip-
tion-list. The lamentations of those who
have tried and failed remind one some-
what of the parable of the wise and foolish
virgins, “Too late, too late, ye cannot
enter now.” But the £100,000 trust that
is to foster drama, ballet and opera in
Australia is now open for business, so
perhaps there will be wisdom in joining
that subscription-list early, too.
Mrs. P. H. Roper is the wife of the
N.S.W. director of the Royal tour, Mr.
P. H. Roper; he received the C.V.O.
from the hands of her Majesty on the
eve of her departure from this State.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
It was nice to read that world-renowned
pianist Solomon (who arrives in Sydney
this month to begin an A.B.C. concert-
tour) does not object to applause between
movements: “I think it makes everyone
more relaxed and lets the pianist feel
how the thing is going,” he says. “Cer-
tain concertos demand it, for example the
Tschaikovsky—you [the pianist] feel
you’ve failed if there’s no applause at the
end of the first movement. But, mark you,
that’s not so in all works; in fact, the
reverse is true—you feel it’s sacrilege
when people applaud something that’s
extremely moving, such as the Beethoven
Sonata Opus 111, which is shattering in its
effect.”
Moiseivitch, when he was here a few
seasons ago, expressed much the same
views. He also said that applause between
movements of certain works was wel-
comed often by pianists as a needed
respite between the interpretation of
moods.
These sentiments call to mind the verse
read some years ago which stuck in the
mind, though unfortunately the author’s
name didn’t. It ran:
When you go to a symphony concert
You will set the highbrows scoffing
If you clap at the end of a movement
Instead of coughing.
So much for the highbrows!
ft ft ft
The growing interest in antiques evident
in Sydney is being further stimulated by
the excellent exhibition at David Jones’s
Gallery organised by the Kuringai
Auxiliary of the Australian Mothercraft
Society for its mobile clinic. This is
the second exhibition the auxiliary has
arranged, and this year it has
included English glass, miniatures,
enamels, fans and paperweights with the
English silver and porcelain. There are
nearly 600 exhibits, none later than 1835.
The oldest piece of silver on display is
an Elizabethan chalice and paten which
has been lent by Mrs. F. Penfold-Hyland,
and in the porcelain section there is a rare
Chelsea “Goat and Bee” cream jug dated
about 1745 which has been lent by Mrs.
W. P. Clifford.
Public interest has been shown in the
special exhibit of the setting that was
used for the Queen and the Duke at the
State Banquet in Sydney, with its glass-
ware in the Webb “Waterwave” design,
its William IV silver goblets and its
gleaming lustres of Georgian design. This
exhibit has been lent and arranged by
Lady Lloyd-Jones.
This exhibition, which was opened by
Lady Holmes on March 29, has been
attracting crowds of about 800 per day for
the past 10 days. It will not finish until
next Saturday morning, so there is still
time to pay it a visit. Among those who
have worked for its success are the presi-
dent, Mrs. H. A. Curl; vice-presidents,
Mrs. A. Ungar, Mrs. P. Hull Smith, Mrs.
R. F. Jarman, Mrs. D. M. Brownhill, and
Mr. Stanley Lipscombe, whose know-
ledge of antiques has been put to excel-
lent use in the preparation of the infor-
mative catalogue.


FARM FOR SALE
QUEENSLAND
One of the best irrigated
LUCERNE FARMS
in the famous Lockyer Valley
105 acres, £22,000 walk
walk out. Reply
BOX 46, LAIDLEY, Q.
Between
Ourselves
d
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HOLIDAY RESORT
Mt. Wilson—Blue Mts. Holi-
day Flat (4) cabin (2) elec,
cooking, garage.—Anderson,
“Kedron,” Mt. Wilson. PH. 1.
Public Notices
I, RUDOLPH BARTIK, of Austrian
nationality, born in Vienna, Austria, resi-
dent 15 years in Australia, now residing
at 26 Bayard Street, Mortlake, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
1, BORZSONYI, ISTVAN. of Hungary,
bom at Munkoics, resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 24 Harold
Street, Guildford. N.S.W., intend to apply
for Naturalisation under the Nationality
and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, BORZSONYI. IRENE, of Hungarian
nationality, bom at Budapest, resident
five years in Australia, now residing at 24
Harold Street, Guildford, N.S.W., intend
to apply for Naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JUNE MAVIS FRASER late of
5718 Heme Bay Housing Settlement
Horne Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
DONALD CHARLES KEITH FRASER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 930
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for 3 years ami
upwards If you wish to . defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 11th day of June 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. F. W. HALL
& EDGINGTON, of Stanway House, 77
King Street, Sydney, Solicitors. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN FREDERICK JONES late of 6
Green Street Kogarah.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARTHA PAULINE JONES has
filed a Petition for Divorce Number 1734
of 1953 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 14th June 1904
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from A. J. P. HALL & HALL,
Solicitors, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
Legal Notice
IN THE ESTATE OP HANNAH MARY
HELEN SEXTON. —Pursuant to the
Order of the Supreme Court of the
State of Victoria made in the matter
No. 252 of 1953 in which Arthur Sexton
Cudmore and Allan Roderick Henderson
as executors of the Will of Hannah
Mary Helen Sexton deceased are plain-
tiffs and Eileen Taylor and others are
defendants DANIEL SEXTON (who was
bom about 1859 and was the eon of
Daniel Sexton and Maria Sexton [maiden
name Bromell] and was last heard of
as residing at Lygon Street Carlton Vic-
toria in 1897) or any person claiming
as his child to be entitled as next of km
of the said Hannah Mary Helen Sexton
or the legal personal representative of
the said Daniel Sexton or of such child
who has died subsequent to the 11th
October 1950 are by his or her solicitor
on or before the 81st day of May 1954
to come in and prove his or her claim
at the office of the Master of the
Supreme Court William Street Mel-
bourne in default whereof he or she will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order The Eighth day of
June 1954 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon
at the said office is appointed for adjudi-
cation upon the claims.
Dated the 19th day of March, 1954.
ERIC S. VANCE, Master of the Supreme
Court.
WEIGALL & OROWTHER, Solicitors. 349
Collins Street, Melbourne. Victoria.
Fo r relief from
GOUTS RHEUMATISM
the painful,'symtoms of
1 if
i'lii
jiiiu
lit
iiK. wicr.H-:.-;^ 1 !
Ws
Slntum**
WWMti*
i',.
mt.
mbkait.
COICHISO*^
fis SOMETHING
f°HT of THE BOX
It is the only treatment of it*
kind available in Australia—the
only treatment containing COL-
CHICUM, GUIACOL and
APIUM in a formula prepared
specifically to counteract the
cause of these complaints.
For mild attacks, one small
bottle is usually complete treat-
ment. For more acute cases,
the larger size is recommended.
Results are sensationall
ALL CHEMISTS
SMALL, 17/6 LARGE, 30/-
Or by mail from Rickard Medi-
cal Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford
Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Mozarl-Schubert Festival
In the heat of the last blaze of
a Brisbane summer Tibor Paul
has been directing the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra
through some festival pro-
grammes of music by Mozart
and Schubert. In the opening
concerts Mozart has come out
ahead.
Mozart was at his best in
opera, but his strong feeling for
drama stamps all of the last
group of symphonies. But the
Schubert who could instinctively
convey the atmosphere of a
poem in a few bars for voice and
piano was a better composer
than the Schubert of most of
the orchestral works.
Tibor Paul wisely steered away
from the early symphonies,
wherein a number of charming
tunes are poor compensation for
the generally low temperature of
the inspiration. But there was
no lack of warmth and vitality
in his reading of the so-called
“Great” C Major symphony, the
last of the nine. Orchestral tone
became increasingly rough in the
sticky atmosphere; but, for all
that, the fine lyrical passages
went well.
The symphony spun along at
a pace which tried to prevent
the oversweetness of too much
melody. The stamping basses
and the whirlwind effects in the
finale were excitingly done. Yet
a programme which had already
included the “Rosamunde Over-
ture” and a richly-Viennese
“Unfinished Symphony” could
not avoid seeming overripe.
Mozart’s fine sense of drama
disciplined by form dispelled this
in a second programme. There
were the “Don Giovanni” over-
ture, a brisk and sparkling per-
formance of “A Little Night
Music” and a performance by
Richard Farrell of the A Major
piano concerto. Here there were
coolness and lucidity and order.
After this Mr. Paul missed the
opportunity of a contrasting per-
formance of the “Jupiter”
symphony in the grand style. A
majestic “Jupiter” would have
been welcome after the gentility
of the other pieces. As it was
we heard something attractive
and courtly, Versailles instead of
Olympus.
D. J. M.
♦♦♦
Goossens Returns
At the “Blue” subscription-
series concert of the A.8.C., the
season’s first, Eugene Goossens
piloted the Sydney Orchestra
through a programme which
certainly didn’t lack diversity.
He opened with Haydn’s final
essay in the symphonic form, his
104th (the “London”), the last
of the 12 he wrote on commission
for the entrepreneur Salomon,
and a work which can stand
comparison with the best of
Mozart outside his final three.
The mood of general geniality,
tempered in the lyrical andante
with meditation, was admirably
captured by the orchestra.
Maurice Clare, whose tone
wasn’t always engaging, was the
soloist in the Violin Concerto
by the contemporary English
composer Alan Rawsthorne. A
violin concerto demands, above
all, strong central themes and
inspired working-out of those
themes. In this, both are con-
spicuously absent.
Delius’s “Song of the High
Hills,” with the slight middle-
section choral interlude sung by
the N-S.W. Conservatorium
choir, and the Introduction and
Bridal Procession from Rimsky-
Korsakov’s “Coq d’Or” were the
other offerings.
* ♦> *l*
French Music
At a concert devoted entirely
to Gallic music at Sydney’s Cam-
meray Music Group, Murray
Lewis, baritone, was responsible
for the most artistic interpreta-
tion of French songs heard from
any Australian singer for many
years. There were fine songs by
Gounod, Duparc, Hahn, Gabriel
Faure, Delibes and Jean Baptiste
Faure, ranging from grave to gay
and to the devotional, and
whether delicate, tone-shading,
legato phrasing or full-blooded
resonance in the chest-notes was
demanded, the singer always had
the complete answer.
Lucille Rath brought a styl-
ishly-used soprano—which has
an unusually mellow low regis-
ter—and an intelligent apprecia-
tion of the subtleties inherent in
songs by the best French com-
posers, to the lovely “Depuis
le jour” from Charpentier’s
“Louise,” an aria from Delibes’s
“Lakme,” songs by Hahn and
Gounod, and three charming
traditional Bergerettes.
Werner Baer, as well, as sup-
plying sensitive accompaniments,
played pieces by Debussy and
Ravel with the authority one has
come to expect of him.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Wirth’s
Wirth’s Circus is one of the
features of the Easter scene in
Sydney, and it turned-up on
schedule the other day at its cus-
tomary stand in Prince Alfred
Park, where the rumbling com-
plaints of the lions, the shuffle
and squeal of elephants and the
shouts of spruikers mingled
with the “plott” of tennis-balls
in the adjacent courts and the
clang and §rowl of traffic some-
where in the darkness beyond.
Last year it was noted here
with regret that the ringmaster
was no more, his place having
been taken by a disembodied
voice emanating from some con-
cealed loudspeaker ; he is still
missing, so apparently the hol-
low, electrical tones of the
microphone and amplifier are
here to stay and ringmaster and
band have gone the way of
Barnum and the rest.
Much remains, however. The
elephants dance and walk tight-
ropes, Captain Sulson’s lions
roar and snarl most convincingly
and almost beat him to the draw
a couple of times, the clowns
natter and fight and contrive to
blow each other up, the seals
balance and toss rubber balls
around with fascinating dexter-
ity, and Mr. Smaha’s Liberty
horses, almost bursting with
pride and condition, turn on the
most beautiful performance of
the evening.
The most exciting things of
the night, however, are in the
air, where The Flying Dieslers
do a very nice under-and-over
on the flying-trapezes; where
George swings and soars clean
across the big top while standing
on his head on a single trapeze ;
where The Kempinskis do some
suicidal balancing on lofty
chrome -plated contraptions
which look impressively like
gigantic dental instruments ; and
where Heddy and Anton swing
and spin with dazzling speed far
above the sawdust, what time
Anton clings with his feet to a
precarious support and suspends
the spinning Hedy with a gleam-
ing swivel gripped between his
teeth.
♦X► ♦>
“Ann Veronica”
“Ann Veronica,” by Ronald
Gow, based on H. G. Wells’s
novel, is the latest gift to the
nation by the State-subsidised
Melbourne National Theatre,
and one wonders both why they
played it and why Wells wrote it.
It is a horrible hybrid between
Shaw and Ibsen, without Shaw’s
intelligence and without Ibsen’s
emotion.
There isn’t a character in the
play who is seen sympathetically.
Whatever we may think of their
aims, the suffragettes of the late
1800’s were sincere, devoted
women who allowed themselves
to be chained to park railings, to
be battered by policemen and
sent to jail for an idea. The
one in the play is a moronic
idiot.
Ann Veronica, the Wellsian
New Woman, has some individu-
ality and, in the person of
Dorothy Bradley, has an attrac-
tive actress to portray her, but
the rest are futile. Mr. Stanley,
her father, is a stiff old bore and
Hubert Manning—her condi-
tioned ideal, whom she rejects
for the rising young scientist,
Ramage —is a farcical creation.
Ramage is evidently the
Wellsian notion of an intellectual
superman, but when Ann de-
clares her love for him he be-
haves like a romantic schoolboy.
As an alleged satire on the ruling
classes, Lady Palsworthy is
comic-cuts.
A theatre which calls itself
national and enjoys a subsidy
from the State should be more
selective. There are enough good
plays in the world, surely, to
make it unnecessary to put on a
thoroughly bad one.
Artbursts
Easter Exhibition
Looking rather like a cheerful
patchwork quilt, the Easter Exhi-
bition at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, at least makes a
pleasantly colorful and lively
impact as a whole. Examined
patch by patch it is rather less
impressive, though not without
interest as a demonstration of
sundry minor artistic enthusiasms
that ripple across the broad
stream of contemporary paint-
ing.
Drysdale’s “Boys at Cook-
town,” hot in atmosphere but
cold in feeling, is the most inter-
esting painting in the exhibition ;
backing it up are John Passmore
with some pleasant stabs of color
in “Painting,” Roland Wakelin’s
warm and over-picturised “Farm
at Eastwood,” a large, slick and
empty landscape by Sydney
Nolan, Sali Herman’s rather
gaudy half-caste settlement,
Donald Friend’s sensitive sketch
for “Nativity,” Grace Cossing-
ton Smith’s characteristic
lozenges of paint deployed in a
sunny “Interior with Veranda
Doors,” and the somewhat
gloomy drama of George Law-
rence’s street-scene in “The Old
Caledonian.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
Graeme Inson, one of the best
of Max Meldrum’s later pupils,
is showing portraits, still-life and
landscape of high quality at the
Victorian Artists’, Melbourne
There is a freshness about his
“Water Babies”—a crowd of kids
disporting in the water—which
is repeated in his still-life.
“Inland Summer” gives the real
character and color of the Out-
back. A certain opaqueness
creeps into most of his portraits,
but doesn’t appear so much in
“Brian Fitzpatrick, Esq.,” which
is as convincing a souvenir of
that redoubtable controversialist
as could be wished for.
❖ ❖ ❖
Max Middleton, showing at
Melbourne Athenaeum, appears
to be falling between-stools. A
pupil of the late Septimus
Power, who painted in that
master’s fashion, he has been to
Europe and apparently encoun-
tered other fashions. Here is a
bit of Brangwyn, here a bit of
Van Gogh, here a bit of some
other artist, but too little of the
artist’s own observation. It is a
pity, because he is an artist of
considerable talent—which shows
in “A Garden, Granada,” in
“Maria, the Gipsy,” and in
“Study of a Peasant Woman.”
Talkies
“Executive Suite”
The executive sphere of an
industrial empire is the setting
for this taut, well-knit drama.
The president of a large company
drops dead without naming his
successor, and the battle for
power is on. The struggle
resolves itself into a clash of wits
between the hard, glacial finance-
director (Frederic March) and the
livewire young production-
director (William Holden). The
climactic scene is a board-
meeting in which a woman
director, able to tip the scales
either way, shrewdly assesses the
character of the contenders.
The character - drawing
throughout is sharp and clear.
Walter Pidgeon, Louis Calhern
and Paul Douglas as directors —
the first mild, respectable but
oddly firm, the second flaunting
his shiftiness and his women, the
third burly but an inherent moral
coward —turn in excellent per-
formances. June Allyson, as the
production-director’s wife, and
Nina Foch, as the dead tycoon’s
efficient, frustrated secretary, put
a nice polish to their work. At
Sydney St. James.
* * ❖
“The Blue Gardenia”
The polish that lifts this crime-
drama out of the ruck is due in
large measure to the craft of the
director, Fritz Lang, who
scarcely ever misses a trick.
Tension is built around the
efforts to pin a murder on an
innocent woman, and feasibility
is never stretched too tightly.
Anne Baxter, Ann Sothern and
Richard Conte are adequate. At
Sydney Palace.


BUNG HIGH
by C.S. BARRY
AT midday we rest in the
throat of a col. A hail-
laden gale bustles through
the defile with the haste
of a Vampire-jet. I drag a billy
from the haversack. I roll a
wind-scoured eye at Rudy.
Rudy lifts his poncho to re-
veal an aluminium flask worn
at the end of his arm. The
aluminium flask contains a by-
product of last year’s chemistry-
course. The by-product dis-
solves fatigue, changes glacial
gales to mild zephyrs, makes
sleety squalls feel like mid-
summer moonlight: Rudy grips
the flask between his knees and
rips out the cork with his teeth.
“Bung high,” shouts Rudy in
his private dialect. Rudy
fumbles and spills precious
juice.
“Damned dribbler,” I curse
him. “You need a bib.”
“Everybody makes mistakes,”
asserts Rudy.
Into the battered billy I pour
flour, salt, water and work until
I have weary dough about the
size of a Mills-bomb. I add
more water so the bomb turns
to plastic putty and beats stiffly
over the fork.
“There’s a lady on the ridge,”
Rudy points.
“Sure,” I tell him. “That
stuff’s too strong on an empty
stomach.”
Rudy settles back sheltered by
moraine and spanks his guitar
under his dripping poncho. His
guitar sobs brokenheartedly. I
join in with an occasional
shouted chorus,
“I don’t want to deprecate,”
cries Rudy, “but you sing like
a giggle-oh.” His teeth flash
like a negro minstrel’s in a
wind-blackened face.
I sing no more. I build up
the fire and balance the metal
plate over flame between three
stones. Two - bob raindrops
boil on the metal plate. I lift
Rudy’s flask. “Bung high,” I
mimic. The shot rages around
my empty stomach like a froth-
ing lunatic in a padded cell.
“I don’t want to distract
you,” says Rudy, “but that’s
the last of our flour.” He gives
himself a smoke with the last
of our tobacco.
As world-champion flapjack-
cooker I resent Rudy’s super-
vision but I say nought because
on the mountainside behind
Rudy I see a figure moving
upward. A girlish figure.
Alone. Above her among the
spires and pinnacles of the
escarpment snow gleams like
beer-froth.
TUST before the metal plate
** melts I pour on to it the
putty from the battered billy.
The putty shudders, spreads,
stiffens and acquires character.
Splashes become biscuits. Every
flapjack has individual per-
sonality.
“I don’t want to meddle,”
interferes Rudy, “but what
about flavoring?”
The girlish figure looks back
and waves,
“Tea’s boiling,” I announce.
Rudy shakes in the last scraps
from the tea-bag. He shakes
tea-scraps into my flapjack,
“God, you’re clumsy!” I yell.
Rudy strums and hums while
the tea draws. The girlish
figure veers to cross a snow-
patch at its narrowest neck.
My flapjack rises and collapses
like a weightlifter doing deep-
breathers one-two. My flapjack
handsprings to show an under-
side dappled yellow like a
dingo’s liver.
“We’ll climb the mount,” I
say.
“I don’t want to ridicule,”
sneers Rudy, “but it’s five
thousand feet.”
“There’s someone up there,”
I say. “Maybe a woman.”
“Jolly good luck to her,” says
Rudy. He dashes anaesthetic
flavoring from his flask on to
my flapjack.
“Maybe she’s got flour to
spare,” I say. I watch my flap-
jack turn numb under the
anaesthetic. Blue flame envelops
the metal plate with a sharp
clop like wind-rippled water
under a rowboat. The flame
leaps to the mouth of the flask.
Rudy drops the flask in the fire,
bumps over the tea-billy and
puts the fire out.
“I don’t want to blaspheme,”
says Rudy. But he does so.
Expertly. He looks hungrier
than a Parisian mannequin.
I cork the flask to extinguish
the contents. From the ashes I
rake out the cremated flapjack.
I throw it to the tadpoles in the
tarn.
“Maybe she’s got flour to
spare,” suggests Rudy.
“Maybe we’ll follow her,” I
urge.
“I don’t want to loaf,” Rudy
assures me, “but I have no head
for heights.”
“No head for heights,” I say.
“And women terrify me.”
“Women terrify you.”
“Although,” brags Rudy,
“potentially, I’m the perfect
husband.”
The perfect husband. I never
thought of that. Well. Rudy
is a first-class drinker, a first-
class supervisor, a first-class
guitar-player . . .
“I’ll catch you at the stop-
over,” I say.
“I hope it’s self-raising,”
mumbles Rudy.
“To make your load lighter,”
I offer, “I’ll carry the flask.”
T MOVE up the cirque, step-
ping on cushion-plants to
keep the feet dry. I take an
hour to reach the snow, twenty
minutes to paddle through it,
half an hour to work up between
dolorite columns on the face of
the escarpment. When hand-
holds are short on one column
I fall across to handholds on
the next. I look down once,
and never again. I pass through
grey rainmist to emerge on
plateau under blue sky. The
subalpine meadow is speckled
with gentians and silver daisies,
white everlastings and butterfly-
iris, A signboard says Mount
Ossa. The reverse side says
Free Parking.
I sun myself on dry rock. I
need the rest and I need the
sun. I need a smoke, I need a
drink and I need a seven-course
meal. “Bung high,” I say to
space. The chemical refresh-
ment ricochets about my empty
stomach like a motor-cyclist rid-
ing the wall-of-death. Against
the signpost leans a rucksack.
I lift the flap to see what food
the lady eats. The lady eats
unusual food.
“Lost something?” says the
lady, appearing suddenly. This
sounds like irony to me, but I
give the lady the benefit of the
doubt. I look at the lady. I
shake my head. Vigorously.
“Lost nothing, lady,” I say.
My voice clicks up an octave.
The lady is old. Shockingly
old. Old as the mountain.
With sky-white eyes tangled in
facial wrinkles. Her ochrous
hair is coarse as button-grass
and straggling to her waist.
She has horny talons lined and
cracked like ice-scored granite.
The cherry-wart on her long
nbse is conspicuous as a country
comfort-station. She wears a
black surplice frayed and spotted
with sweat-rime like the black
mountainside littered with snow-
patches. Her gnarled toenails
peeping through open-thong
sandals resemble quartz pebbles.
She wears a tall black hat and a
non - communicative air. She
looks as though she’s been put
together by a landscape-
gardener.
“Lovely weather above the
clouds,” I chuckle through
wind-cracked lips. Amicable.
The sun glares back from snow-
patches. I’m brimming with
self-assurance like a glass of
(’n CpoHo
“All alone?” I ask to fill the
silence.
“All alone,” she agrees.
Coldly.
“Dangerous, lady,” I tell her.
Brightly.
“Yah,” she tells me. Darkly.
“All right if you have a
couple of spare necks.”
“Yah.”
“I have a mate,” I tell her.
“Yah,” she tells me.
“We got no food, lady,” I say
with the solemnity of a morti-
cian.
“Yah,” sne explains.
I gaze out over rocky out-
crops. Over cloud-bank ex-
tending to the Indian Ocean.
Every rock is a ravenous rock,
every cloud is a famished cloud,
every color is a hungry color.
I discern that the lady is short
on camaraderie. I discern a
bit more so the lady buttons h#r
rucksack and prepares to move.
“You couldn’t spare some
flour?” I tell her. I don’t ask
her the obvious. Maybe the
lady loves tramping alone over
uninhabited country. Maybe.
The magnanimous female
hooks padded straps over
shrugged shoulders. She
snuggles her back into the ruck-
sack-cradle. She thumbs her
dees and climbs over snaggle-
stones down into cloudmist.
“If you need help,” I call,
“send up a flare.”
T QUIT the world of sunshine.
I climb down under grey
cloud where powder-snow is
falling. Further down it is
sleet and rain. I put my head
through t|ie hole in the rain-
rinsed poncho. After a long
time I come to the track in the
throat of the col.
Over button-grass uplands the
track is marked by an upright
wand every two minutes. Across
marshy flats the track leads
over logs end-to-end. Through
myrtles, pencil-pines and sassa-
fras blazed trunks indicate the
way. I plod over hill and
torrent. The rain thickens. I
whistle. I take a whet. “Bung
high,” I say to the rain. The
stimulant squirms about my
empty stomach like a sack of
whipsnakes hopped -up with
benzedrine.
“Not again,” cackles the
lady. The words gurgle like
rain rivulets. The lady wears
a rain-cape stained golden-and-
green like crowded ancient
beeches around us. Her hair
looks like moss and elfin-fern
streaming with rain.
“We’re both going the same
way, lady,” I tell her.
“Yah,” she tells me.
I lose her in the rainmist. I
pick up the plodding and the
whistling where I left off.
sits on the doorstep of
the stopover-hut sketching
the last grey glimmer of day.
The last grey glimmer is filtered
through rainmist and splashed
down writhing limbs of ghost-
gums.
“What’s the position?” asks
Rudy.
“Never worse,” I tell him. I
haven’t much energy for con-
versation because I haven’t
much energy. I go back in the
rain and gather furze. This
furze, Richea scoporia, burns
when wet. I get the fire going
and earn curses from possums
camped in the chimney. The
fireplace is big enough for a
spare bedroom. I fill the
battered "billy and put it on the
fire. Into it I put the tea-bag
to stew.
“Try boiling your boots,”
suggests Rudy. “Starving men
do that traditionally.”
“Have a drink,” I say.
“Bung high,” gulps Rudy.
When he recovers his breath and
stops uncrossing ,his eyes he
leers startled through the door-
way,
“You can see an old woman,”
I tell him.
“On the ridge over the creek,”
he tells me. “How did you
know?”
“Is she riding a broom?”
“Odd you should ask that,”
he says. “No.”
I squint through grey rain. I
see no old woman. I stir straw
in timber-bunks to make soft
mattresses. I hang wet clothes
over the fire where they soon
smell brown of smoke, I . check
myself for leeches, rip off those
I find, then drop them in the
fire. I wipe off bloodsmears
with underpants. Rudy drops
his sketch-books and I process
him for leeches. In this
country leeches are thicker than
mugs on a racecourse. ,
“This bung high,” I inquire.
“What’s it mean?”
“It’s French for good garlic,”
explains Rudy.
“Good garlic?” Good gra-
cious !
“I make the stuff from a
French recipe with a garlic
base. It’s a sort of home-made
fernet.”
A sort of home-made fernet.
Well, well. The tea boils, I
pour it.
“God, that’s hot,” says Rudy
through scalded lips. “What’s
for dessert?”
“Drag your belt in,” I tell
him. Roughly. I rub bread-
mould out of our socks in the
iron bucket. Rudy supervises
from the bunk near the fire.
“Don’t rub too hard,” he
cautions. “You’ll have to darn
those socks.” Rudy produces
the contours he pencilled during
the day. I mount his wax
crayon in a metal holder. An
ash-colored crayon to match the
leaden landscape. Rudy gets to
work on colors and tone-
gradations for adumbrated
masses. A possum scoops
Rudy’s crayon and sinks needle-
teeth into it. Meanwhile the
possum keeps one thought and
a couple of jumps ahead of
Rudy, finally disappears through
a hole in the ceiling,
“Isn’t he a pet?” growls
Rudy.
“Delightful,” I agree.
“I don’t want to gripe,”
grumbles Rudy, “but my word
I’m hungry.”
Hungry. A hunger you can
almost reach out and touch.
Hunger soaks deeper than rain,
gnaws harder than leeches,
lours darker than starless nights.
Rudy keeps dying embers com-
pany, sings to his lonely guitar.
He shimmies and weaves sadly
through a tear-jerking tale of
what happened one time on the
Gundagai line in a noisy and
dirty old freight. I sniffle once
or twice in sympathy. I’ve
heard happier songs from
Somaliland jackals howling to
a famine moon. A wallaby
thumps away in the scrub.
“It’s a long day, tomorrow,
mate,” I tell Rudy. I unroll
sleepbags on the straw. I put
Rudy’s guitar on a nail. I drag
off his boots and slide him into
the lower bunk.
“I don’t want to criticise,”
complains Rudy, “but you’re too
fastidious.”
“It’s the mother in me,” I
tell him. I weigh Rudy’s flask
thoughtfully in one hand. I
pour a mouthful in a mug, add
a clean hollow straw, put the
mug by Rudy’s head.
OUT in the blackness rain-
loaded wind hisses past with
the temper of a tireless shrew.
I sit in the fireplace. Among
glowing charcoals at my feet I
see images like traffic-lights and
dance - bands, surfboards and
Sunday dinners, bedewed,
schooners cold as virgins’
hearts, comfortable crowds in
coffee-shops with smoke in their
lungs ...
Rudy snuffles into sleep, i
take his swig of stingo and
shudder over it. Rudy’s home-
made fernet is bitter as cascara.
One day Rudy’s home-made
fernet will drive us both through
the supersonic-wall. Out among
the ghost-gums a heathen deity
wails sharp and clear against the
sibilant swish of rain. As
melancholy as the dirge of a
frustrated alley-cat.
“Bung high,” I say to the
dismal night.-The stingo rattles
CROW’S NEST
Never since the stringybarks stiffened to telegraph poles
And froze their flowers in porcelain has a crow been known
To nest in a tree at Crow’s Nest. 'The traffic rolls
Blindly on birds and blackfellows’ bones in the stone
And harsh and far, oh harsh and far cry the crows
To the first man climbing in the heat through the rocky
forest.
Nevertheless, where the tramlines cross and recross
To make a new nest of steel for fruitshop and florist
And Neon-signs glare as red as any bushfire,
Fifteen land-agents picking the eyes of the land,
Twenty car-salesmen waiting to fly at the buyer,
Five roads leaping to kill at the traffic-cop’s hand
And ten glossy undertakers eager to deal with the rest
Prove there are crows enough still if you look at Crow’s
Nest.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


ATLANTIC
-*FLASH+
STOP-WEAR
SERVICE >
SS '
/
vi
0.
p
f £
%
h
e>
/a
SI
H
Mapfuj HUUiin(j
. starts with your
Atlantic Retailer
Modern engineering can give you the best of cars, but you
alone can make it yield years of trouble-free service.
Start right. Link up with your Atlantic Retailer for complete
car-care, personalised service, and experienced guidance.
His skill is backed by spark-eager Atlantic Flash Extra (now
pre-fortified with Paradyne (J 54) to banish carbon and to
tonic upper cylinders) and by pure paraffin-base Atlantic Motor
Oil, always on its metal.
Happy motoring starts at your Atlantic Retailer —— and It
thrives there. Swing over to-morrow!
<3>
f. n ° F q u *t^
ATLANTIC
AP.2-54
S E ft
in my empty stomach like
cicadas in a pepper-tree. Sleet-
laced air blasts the fire into life
and sirens up the chimney. I
slam the door. Then I get an
idea and hackles rise behind my
ears. I open the door. Flap-
ping leathery wings fill the door-
way. Biggest vampire I’ve seen.
“Good garlic,” 1 yell. I’m not
scared. Only petrified.
“For hades’ sake,” grates the
lady, “pull yourself together.”
1 ease my shoulder off the
door. I forcibly unwind fingers
from the door-handle. I smooth
my hair down flat. I open for
the esoteric lady. I welcome
her same as I welcome death’s
mother-in-law. She comes in
like a southerly-buster with a
burst of sleet and the rain-cape
still waving like a Roman in an
argument.
“Was that you wailing in the
scrub?” I inquire.
“Your sense of humor is a
bit windblown,” she tells me.
“I was singing.” The look she
gives me is as cold as an ice-
bound bottle of bubbly.
The lafly is neither garrulous
nor sociable. As far as she’s
concerned Rudy and I could be
a couple of obscure rips in a
fairytale not yet imagined. I fill
a bucket full of water. Soon
the lady’s brewing fills the hut
with fragrance. I spit once or
twice to get rid of surplus
saliva. Rudy’s face twitches in
his sleep.
“That smells fine,” I announce.
I look hard and wait long but
the lady is busy with the lady.
She mumbles incantations over
a stew of leeches and herbs.
Her eyes gleam yellow like
dandelion-wine.
Finished her kitchen-duties,
the lady unrolls her sleepbag.
She hangs her rucksack from a
rafter, climbs into bed. She has
nothing to say. She puts three
chocks of firewood beside her
sleepbag. She closes her eyes.
Fireflicker ripples lovingly over
her sorrel-roan hair.
I wash her skirt in the iron
bucket and hang it in the chim-
ney. I rub plenty of dubbin
into her open-thong sandals. I
scour her iron eating-machinery.
A POSSUM feathers my bare
feet, jumps from floor to
stool to table to sill to rafter.
The possum stabs a rangy left
at the lady’s rucksack and falls
off the rafter wrapped around
a well-aimed chock of firewood.
The well-aimed chock finishes
on my sensitive shin like the
kick of a front-row forward. I
want to scream with pain but I
content myself with saying:
“Nice shot, lady.”
Sleepy grunts sough from
Rudy’s sleepbag.
“Yah,” says the lady. “Pro-
fit from the warning.”
“Lady,” I say. Sweetly. “I
wouldn’t interfere with you.”
“Yah,” she agrees. We have
silence for a while.
Her teeth are yellow like
blooming wild-broom.
“You like travelling alone?”
I ask.
“I hate noise and bustle,”
says the sweet and majestic
creature. “Solitude aids my
thoughts.”
“You think a lot?” I worry.
My shin still aches.
“Perhaps,” she intones. Wist-
fully. Like the lovelorn lead
in a sudsy serial. “I never find
the peace I crave.”
“You must have been a sensi-
tive child,” I say. Grandly.
“Perhaps,” she says. Mysteri-
ously. She gives me a sign as
grey as a drizzling dawn.
T WAKE with the wind sighing
through grey drizzling dawn.
The lady has vanished. Dis-
placed by a hangover. In the
shaving-mirror I see a malnutri-
tioned face from a Red Cross
poster staring at me. A face
too emaciated to interest a vivi-
sectionist. I croak a rousing
ballad to greet the hungry day.
“A bloke with your I.Q.
should have a low voice, too,”
says Rudy. Rudy is in a septic
mood.
“Good day,” I rasp.
Rudy focuses ravenous eyes
on the empty fireplace. I run a
pestle tongue around my mortar
mouth. 1 drink. I drink of
fresh freshwater, which tastes
sweet as elderberry brandy. I
shake my head. 1 can’t get rid
of it. The hangover I mean.
Next morning with me is always
next morning with me. I peel
off Rudy’s bag like a zippered*
banana-skin. 1 pull on Rudy’s
socks for him and lace his boots.
“You would scare a ghost this
morning,” Rudy tells me.
“No need to be irascible,” I
tell him. This time of day I
am capable of at least one white
rage.
“Let’s drink the irascible,”
says Rudy.
“To hell with you, mate,” I
say.
“To hell with you, mate,”
says Rudy.
“Do you really make that
stuff from garlic?”
“The trick is,” instructs Rudy,
“to freeze the stuff and lift out
the water-content in chunks.
What’s left is almost pure
alcohol.”
Pure alcohol. Almost. As
good as a sting of gardenol.
Almost. I pull forward Rudy’s
right arm and strap on a leather -
and-metal harness. Rudy lost
both hands at Alamein. Where
his right hand should be I
screw in a small disk. For a
left hand 1 give him a hook,
“What about the old woman?”
I say.
“Old woman?” says Rudy.
Innocently.
“Is she part of the recipe?”
I throw the guitar at Rudy and
he continues his account of the
lamentable incident on the
Gundagai line. I uncork the
flask and pour home-made fernet
into the fireplace. The fernet
comes out in choking sobs. The
warm ashes explode into purple
flame, A tortured shriek makes
me re-cork the flask.
“Did that sound like a
shriek?” I ask.
“Aw, come on,” admonishes
Rudy, “you talk like a souse.”
I shake the flask. I get an
answering death-rattle. “Have a
drink,” I offer.
“Bung high,” sings Rudy. He
drops his guitar.
“That hoodoo stuff is for
adolescents,” I comfort myself.
Rudy fans his open mouth to
cool the tongue. “Good-morn-
ing, lady,” says Rudy. He tries
to pick up a stool, remembers he
is short of hands, hooks it
clumsily and shuffles it to the
fireplace. He tells me to
build-up the fire to propitiate
the lady. My hair slowly
pinches-up on end. It would be
less weird if I were in the act.
I seize the flask by the neck
for a handle.
“Deadly day to be out and
about, lady,” says Rudy to the
stool.
“Mate,” I say to Rudy, “let’s
get on the track.” I try to
eschew the thoughts at the back
of my head. Shrinking thoughts
shot with icicles and hung with
shrouds.
“You always travel alone?”
asks Rudy to the stool,
“Mate,” I say, “let’s go,”
“You’re not very conversa-
tional,” says Rudy.
“Me?” I say.
“Not you, clod-head.”
That’s enough. I take a swig.
The puce-juice blazes away in
my empty stomach like a tail-
gunner in a bubble-turret. I
wait for the lady to materialise.
No lady. I take a swig. The
wicked liquid scampers around
my empty stomach like a gaudy
king-crab in a lobster-pot. Still
no lady. Only a stool. After
the next swig I need both hands
and all my agility to get off my
knees.
“I don’t suppose you could
spare some flour?” says Rudy.
I tiptoe behind Rudy, lift the
flask above my head with both
hands. I focus the balding
summit of Rudy’s skull. I swing
the flask with plenty of rhythm
and follow-through. Like an
axeman splitting logs.
Rudy picks me off the floor
and rescues the flask from the
fireplace. “That’s all the stuff
we have,” he tells me. “You
must be crazy.”
“The general prognosis is
psychosis,” I say.
“Excuse me, lady,” says Rudy.
“Cut it out,” I shout,
“I’d better get you out of
here,” says Rudy to me.
We sling haversacks and
stumble out into the roaring
forties.
“Farewell, lady,” cries Rudy
over his shoulder..
At the bend in the track I
look back at the stopover-hut.
The lady is there with her wind-
streaming hair. I can tell by
her cries and the glare in her
eyes that her ego is bent on
some evil intent.
“Let’s hurry,” I say.


Haddon Rig
Blood
pays handsome
dividends to
far-sighted
Woolgrowers
Hi
Breeders who invest in Haddon Rig Blood
are achieving remarkable results. Accord-
ing to the “Merino Stud Stock Register,”
134 N.S.W. Studs using Haddon Rig Blood
sold 32,000 rams in 1952. Owing to exces-
sive rainfall in 1950-52, this total was
unusually low—a factor which makes the
following estimates quite conservative.
Assuming that the average ram sires 40
lambs annually, it can he said that, each
year, 1,280,000 lambs carry a percentage
of Haddon Rig Blood.
Given that the life of a sheep is five years,
then New South Wales pastoralists are
running 6,400,000 sheep influenced by this
blood. Based on current values, these
sheep should cut wool worth £32,000,000.
Actually these figures are an under-state-
ment. Normally, sales of rams in N.S.W.
are 25% higher than the 1952 total. Nor
does this estimate take into account 11,400
rams of Haddon Rig Blood sold by 24
leading Queensland Studs in that year.
The money you invest in Haddon Rig
Blood is an exceptionally sound invest-
ment that will pay handsome dividends.
HADDON RIG STUD
WARREN. N.S.W TELEPHONE: Warren 74
HRI-54
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:-~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING —INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
APPLES AND PEARS
USUALLY on Sundays the
Grants came to their
place. The first they saw
of the Grants was an
eddy of white dust moving along
the saddle of Bald Hill against
the pale rim of the sky. The eddy
disappeared into trees, and a
black-ant crept out from the
trees and down the white road
into the valley. For ten minutes
after that it was guesswork—Mr.
Grant pulling on the brass out-
side brake in your mind and Guy
Grant, pale and tidy, leading the
avenue gate open and leading it
shut again. At last the car itself
came splashing through the sun-
light between the elms with Guy
holding a model aircraft out in
the wind.
Usually, too, there was some-
thing new about the Grants’ car
—a coat of paint, a brass spot-
light, or a new-type carburettor
under the low bonnet; and Guy
had a new propeller on his
biplane. Their father stood
gazing with his hands on his
hips while Mr. Grant laid open
the bonnet; their mother and
Mrs. Grant walked down the
path both talking and laughing
lightly together about the things
that had worried them all week ;
and Janet and Billy and Babs
looked at one another while Guy
spun the propeller of his plane.
“Well, Les,” their father said,
“you’ll have to get yourself
another car soon. There doesn’t
seem to be much more you can
fit on this one.”
“With the price of petrol the
way it is,” Mr. Grant said, “I
won’t be able to afford this one
much longer.”
Mr. Grant called petrol
pe-trol; and while he clipped
back the brass catches on the
bonnet, their father laughed
heartily at his own remark and
the children looked harder at
one another about Mr. Grant’s
pronunciation.
“You brought your clubs,
Les?”
Mr. Grant reached into the
back of the car and brought out
a bagful. The heads of the irons
were polished and the woods
reared up in the bag like the
heads of cobras. Their father
had his set leaning by the gate-
post—half a dozen clubs in a
stovepipe of canvas. And he and
Mr. Grant set off for the three-
hole links in the horse-paddock,
their father striding, lean and
tall, with Mr. Grant a bantam-
weight beside him.
Mr. Grant called golf go-lf.
He addressed the ball seriously
with a quick preliminary tremor
of the clubhead and tremor, of
the shoulders, like a cat shaking
meat. The ball climbed to a pin-
head, banked and curved over
towards the willows by the creek.
He addressed their father
seriously, too. Their father
joked about winds high up and
played quietly down the centre
of the flat, his ball bouncing
over the cowpats on the short-
cropped grass. But he became
serious himself whenever Mr,
Grant was in front.
When Mr. Grant was in front,
their father smoothed out the
hoof-marks on the gravel green
with his putter, and Mr. Grant
stood seriously on one leg with
the other leg to the side. Guy
stood in his shadow with his leg
out too and the heavy bag of
clubs over his shoulder. As the
ball approached the hole, Mr.
Grant leaned forward, helping
it in, and Guy leaned back,
keeping it out.
“Good putt, Colonel! A very
long putt.”
“Well, Les, that approach-shot
of yours wa's as good as I’ve
seen.”
TANET and Billy found it very
J dull. They stamped along
the creek bank, sending land-
slides of cracked earth toppling
down into the clear coils of
water; or played golf with
willow boughs, hitting cowpats
on to the greens.
“Here now, Billy! What do
you think you’re up to?”
“Come on, Guy,” Janet
called. “Come and play.” Call-
ing in her longest weariest voice.
Guy liked to watch his father.
But sornetimes he handed over
the bag of polished clubs, and
the children ran wild. They raced
away across the paddocks, play-
ing chasings, leaving Guy far
behind. They took him into their
underground cave in the creek
bank and blew out the jam-tin
lamp. They climbed the giant
pear-tree growing wild by the
first tee, looking for sparrows’
eggs. Guy stood underneath
amongst the irises, gazing up, a
slight pale boy with a fringe of
fair hair, in a white shirt and
long short pants.
“Look, Jan. Look at them
all,” Billy said. “One, two, three,
four, five. And aren’t they
speckled? Feel! They’re still
warm. See. Guy”—holding an
egg in sunlight between his
thumb and finger,
“I’ve got a collection at home,”
Guy said, “of all the birds’ eggs
in the world.”
“I’ll bet you haven’t.”
“I’ll bet I have. I’ll show
you.”
“You wouldn’t have a nostrich
egg,” Janet said.
“I’ve got a menu egg.”
“I’ll bet you haven’t got as
many eggs as we have.”
“Yours are all sparrows’ eggs,”
Guy said. “Anyone can get
sparrows’ eggs.”
“Then why don’t you come
up and get them then?”
“I’ve got enough sparrows’
eggs,” Guy said.
There was a pause while the
children gazed down through the
leaves of the pear-tree and Guy
gazed up at them.
“See this tree,” Billy said.
“You think it’s a pear-tree, don’t
you? Well, it grows apples as
well,”
“It couldn’t,” Guy said.
“Look, they’re all pears.
Hard green pears hung down
from the branches,
“It does,” Billy said, “some-
times. It grew one last summer.
Didn’t it, Jan?”
Janet was looking into the
sparrow’s nest, but her head
seemed to nod.
“It couldn’t,” Guy said.
“I tell you,” Billy said, getting
excited, “it grew an apple. A
big red juicy apple. I ought to
know, I ate it. Didn’t I, Jan?”
“Yes,” Janet said. “He ate it.”
“A pear-tree couldn’t grow an
apple,” Guy said, standing with
his feet apart. “I’ve read about
them.”
“It’s all very well reading,”
Billy said. “You didn’t eat the
apple.”
He and Janet both laughed.
“It was last summer,” Billy
said. “Janet climbed right up to
the very top of the tree, and there
it was growing in among the
pears and she picked it.”
“I said I found the apple up
the tree,” Janet said. “I said 1
picked it.”
“She probably picked it some-
where else,” Guy said, “and had
it in her pocket.”
“I didn’t have it in my pocket,”
Janet said. '
“There you are, Guy. You’re
mad. You won’t believe any-
thing you’re told.”
“Let’s climb down,” Janet
said, “and go for a walk.”
nrHEY straggled down the hill
in the cooling sunshine to
the creek. Willows wept over
the steep bank, and dropped a
leaf here, a leaf there, that turned
to fish in the gold water, dragging
tiny sun-pointed shadows over
the gravel. They could hear
their father and Mr. Grant talk-
ing half a mile away up the flat.
“Look!” Janet cried suddenly.
“Look, a landslide! ”
And. when they turned to
look, she pushed Guy over the
bank into the creek.
After that the Grants went
home early in case Guy caught


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS TODD late of Darling-
hurst.—TAKE NOTICE that EDITH
ISABEL TODD has filed a Petition for
Divorce in suit No. 465 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 15th June 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS;
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
before RUST stops now !
FIGURES SHOW THAT 1 CAR IN 8 THIS YEAR WILL
NEED REPAIRS TO FUEL SYSTEMS DAMAGED BY RUST!
Don't let this happen to YOU-fiii up regularly with
hhpol
RUST-PROOF PETROL
a cold and the children were sent
to bed in the late afternoon.
Cocks crowed and blowflies still
buzzed at the wire gauze behind
the yellow blinds.
“But I’m not sorry I did it,”
Janet said. “He’s such an awful
liar. All the birds’ eggs in the
world, and not even a nostrich
egg!”
'THE next Sunday they visited
-*■ the Grants’ place for a
change. Their father backed the
Brazier out under the black pine
by the garden gate and sat in the
car, occasionally pushing back
the peak of his cap and squeez-
ing the rubber horn.
The children watched him
from their ponies behind the
woodheap. They saw their
mother hurrying up the path,
pausing here and there to snip
flowers for Mrs. Grant. The
car stalled, and started off down
the avenue with a spit of gravel.
The children turned their ponies
and galloped off down the pad-
dock, taking the short-cut around
Bald Hill.
Quinces hung like green moons
among the dim leaves by the
deserted cottage, but there was
no time for stopping. As they
climbed the rise dust blew
through the stringybarks, chalk-
ing the sky ahead.
“It’s no use,” Billy said.
“We’ll never beat the car when
Babs is with us.”
“Dad’s driving fast,” Janet
said. “He always does when
Mum’s late.”
They giggled.
“What’s the hold-up?” Billy
said, looking at an imaginary
watch.
“Come on, Babs! ”
Babs was still far away down
the sheep pad, clinging on to the
pommel like a monkey, her legs
flapping straight out at the sides.
Midget cantered on stiff joints,
kicking a hoof to the side.
“I dropped my hat,” Babs
panted. “It came off back there
by the salt-trough.”
When they finally rode over
the rise, they could see the
Grants’ place through the trees.
It had a gabled roof like a dolls’
house, a square of English
garden, roses and pebble paths,
and somehow it looked just the
right place for the Grants to
live. Ranges leaned above it,
blue or spiked with ringbarked
trees, the wild hills of kangaroos
and eagles’ nests.
“I’ll tell you what,” Janet
said. They were riding down
the white road in the sunshine.
“Let’s take our saddles off. Let’s
gallop down there bare-back.”
“ITiat’s a good idea,” Billy
said. “Aren’t we too close,
though?”
“We could always swing off
the road and leave them behind
a tree.”
“That’s a good idea.”
THEY turned off and dis-
-1 mounted under a giant blue-
gum. The day, quite suddenly,
was full of purpose again.
“But what are we doing this
for?” Babs said. “I like to ride
with a saddle.”
Janet and Billy went on
ungirthing their ponies, busy
amongst the changing shade.
“Stand up, Octo,” Billy said.
“There’s no need to take yours
off,” Janet said at last. “You can
keep yours on.”
“That’s right,” said Billy.
“If you’re taking yours off,”
Babs said, “I want to take mine
off, too.”
“You just said you’d like to
keep it on.”
“I want it off,” Babs said. “I
want to do what you do.”
She was standing under the
giant tree with her dress tucked
into bloomers and her cherub-
face troubled —wide eyes ready
for tears and lip going down.
“Then don’t argue,” Billy said,
“We like to ride bare-back, that’s
all. Here, I’ll help you.”
“But don’t say anything to the
Grants,” Janet said.
Midget was blowing out her
belly, nipping at Babs, thinking
the girth was being tightened.
Billy lifted his knee and Midget
gave in, standing stockstill with
her ears back.
“And don’t fall off and spoil
everything,” Billy said, legging
Babs on. “Hang on to the
mane.”
Babs hung on with both
hands, kicking her heels into
Midget’s shoulders. The others
kicked air, kicking on, and they
were away, galloping heigh!
down the white road through
the dust to astonish the Grants.
TJUT there was no one outside
** to see their ride. The
children hung about lamely,
waiting for the time to leave.
Guy brought out his birds’ eggs
—colored shells bedded in cotton
in boot-box trays—and Janet
said nothing about the ostrich
egg because they were at the
Grants’.
“You’ve certainly got a lot,”
Billy said, and Guy put the
lids on and put them away care-
fully on a shelf.
Their father and Mr. Grant
came in, talking seriously about
Mr, Grant’s lighting-plant. They
sat up straight at tea, and Mrs.
Grapt asked what they had done
with their appetites. At last it
was time to go.
Sparrows gossiped amongst the
rose leaves and the grown-ups
stood under the arch, gossiping,
too. The children put out shy
hands.
“They’re certainly growing
up,” Mr. Grant said.
The children looked at their
toes. When the car drove off,
they raced for their ponies.
“Don’t tell me they’re bare-
back!” Mrs. Grant cried.
Fiercely, like birds released
from the hand, they galloped
away through the evening, up
the hard white road. Janet and
Billy were well past the tree
before they looked back. The
Grants were still watching them
from under the arch, Mr. Grant
with a leg out to the side and
Guy in his white shirt with his
leg out at the same angle. Babs
had reined away over to where
their saddles were stacked behind
the gum-tree.
“Come on, Babs!” they
called. “Come on! ” leaning back
over the bounding rumps of their
ponies.
But Babs had dismounted and
was struggling with her saddle.
The Grants began to walk up the
road. Billy and Janet turned
their ponies in despair.
“Come on!” they called.
“It’s no use,” Janet said.
“Quick, they mayn’t have seen.
They think she’s in some
trouble.”
“They may think she’s doing
something and stop,” Billy said.
ALLOPING back to the tree
they swung off their ponies
and swung their saddles on.
“You’re mad,” hissed Janet.
“Do you want them to come and
catch us?”
“It hurts,” Babs said. “It
hurts bare-back. I bounce.”
“Couldn’t you wait until they
went inside,” Billy hissed.
“I didn’t know,” Babs said.
“Nobody told me.”
“Oh you never know any-
thing.”
Babs’ face screwed up and
tears came out the cracks, like
orange-pips,
“I didn’t know,” she said. “I’m
going back to the Grants.”
“They’re nearly here,” Janet
whispered. “Oh, come on,
Babs.”
“I didn’t know,” Babs bawled.
“All right. It’s all right, Babs.
On you get.”
And off they galloped.
■JVTEXT Sunday when the Grants
came over, they played all
afternoon with Guy’s biplane,
running up and down the lawn,
making the propeller spin. And
Guy said nothing about the
saddles.
The Pipes of Pan
by Duncan
Campbell
MY dear Pottsie,
This letter may be
slightly disjointed, old
man, but I do assure
you, I’m not troppo —yet. Time
will tell about that, but for now
just read on and you’ll under-
stand.
You know I wangled this post-
ing to get away from it all—
particularly the blonde in Mel-
bourne. Well, Air Board couldn’t
have fallen in with my plans
better. The island of Pan (that
is quite definitely its name, but
I’m told the airman’s mess have
already renamed it in a way
vividly expressing what they
think of it as a posting) is indeed
a desert isle.
We have golden sands, sway-
ing palms, unlimited blue skies
and about 500 miles of Indian
Ocean on all sides between us
and the next land-mass, which is
Cocos Island. Population:
twenty or thereabouts, all
R.A.A.F. No natives. Bearing
the white man’s burden, we are,
my boy, and don’t forget it.
Advance-guard in the farflung
air-defence of Australia, that’s
us. If Pan is marked on your
atlas you’ll probably think it’s a
printer’s error out in all that blue.
Very pleasant things were, for
a while after the landing; just
the usual flap, biffing up pre-
fabs and unpacking stores. Then
the station settled down to
routine: laying the strip, regular
radar-watches, daily inspections
and all that. I was thoroughly
enjoying all the sand, sea, sky and
silence until the night the sixty-
four-dollar question about station
morale was asked in the mess.
COME eager-beaver ups and
says, practically in the
C.O.’s ear, that he thinks the
isolation is affecting the men.
He’s beard a lot of bickering in
the rec. hut of a night. Funny
how some coves can’t remember
their own rookie days.
“Ho! ” double-basses old
Monaghan. “And what’s the
amenities-officer doing about it,
then?”
Sticky silence that has nothing
to do with our closeness to the
equator descends on the mess.
“Who,” wheedles the C. 0., the
well-known red glint flashing in
his eye, “who is the amenities-
officer?”
We leave that one to the
adjutant to iron out. In the
hugger-mugger of setting-up
shop on Pan, no amenities-
officer had been appointed. The
C.O. gives the mess a once-over,
and so help me, Pottsie, just be-
cause I’m the only one not gain-
fully employed at the time with
a chess-board, a book on jet-
engines, an Edgar Wallace or
some tatting, I am it. Appointed
on the spot, P.O. Phipps,
Amenities Officer, Pan Island.
Function: Obtaining the needful
sports gear, reading material and
equipment for hobbies to keep
the blokes happy and compen-
sate for the lack of civilised
entertainment on Pan.
Now you know how it is, old
man, with these extra duties.
Somebody bungs a requisition-
form in front of you, takes a
pace back, and now and then
you sign without checking what
you sign for. And as all our
stuff is flown in, I never pay
much attention to what amenities
are asked for. I figured if a
request should go in for a couple
of performing seals or a 30ft.
cutter, it’d get stopped at the
other end anyway.
So one quietly brilliant tropic
morning, the lads uncrated no
less than a set of bagpipes.
Certain that they must be a store-
man’s mistake, I queried them.
“What for the bagpipes?”
The sergeant-storeman con-
sulted a tag.
“Amenities materials, sir.
Request of L.A.C. Doolan.”
“Good Lord! Bagpipes for an
Irishman? Does he play ’em?”
“He’s probably going to learn,
sir. Orders said something about
encouraging musical talent on
small and isolated stations.”
I withdrew at that, not want-
ing to admit I hadn’t a clue about
signing the request for the old-
time agony pipes. Perhaps
L.A.C, Doolan was going to put
on a troppo act and try for a
reposting. Well, good luck to
him. Maybe the distance between
the recreation hut and our
quarters would keep the skirling
at bay. But you know bagpipes,
old man. Or do you?
r pHERE’S a saying that the
pipes sound best in the open.
The island of Pan is awful open.
It has little or no vegetation,
geographical features or built-up
area. The one small hillock that
shelters the station, and our
group of prefabs act as excel-
lent sounding-boards. Those
pipes never carried better or more
pungently in their native glens.
As the first wail wafted in the
mess window the C.O. was on
his feet, swivelling his belt
around as if he were straighten-
ing the set of a kilt.
“The pipes!” he declaimed.
“Who’s got pipes on the island,
playing them like a ham-fisted
Irishman?”
Which was not quite the thing
for a Monaghan to be saying
about the performance of a
Doolan, we felt.
“It is a —er —ham-fisted Irish-
man, sir. They’re L.A.C.
Doolan’s. He got them through
Amenities.”
The C.O. was at the window,
positively a-twitch at the banshee
rhythms of Doolan’s making.
The adjutant swears he went
through the motions of flinging
an invisible plaid about his
shoulders as he swung round and
tramped over to the rec. hut. I
heard his threatening soliloquy
as he passed me,
“What he needs is a few
lessons. Won’t have my native
instrument maltreated in my
hearing! And if the fellow’s
keen ...”
And there, Pottsie, you have
it. It seems that poor old Doolan
was the victim of a practical
joke. One of his mates forged
his name on the request for the
pipes. It also seems that W/Cdr.
Michael Monaghan, D.F.C. and
Bar, etc., etc., is Irish in name
only. Mum Monaghan was a
Scot, and brought him up in the
paths of righteousness in the
heart of the highlands. He loves
the bagpipes. He plays the
things. Such his enthusiasm, he
has managed to imbue L.A.C.
Doolan (who is third-generation
Australian anyway) with the
urge to play them also. The
silky tropic nights are made
hideous by the pair of them per-
forming. The mess can’t quite
distinguish yet between the
C.O.’s demonstrations and
Doolan’s practising.
T>UT the death-blow came to-
** day when the old man per-
sonally requisitioned another set
of pipes from Amenities. Plainly
he intends training the whole
station staff into a pipe-band—
and time is on his
remember, because there’s no
home-leave from here for anyone
for eighteen months. I foresee
most of the chaps joining in in
sheer self-defence.
Since the C.O. (or possibly
L.A.C. Doolan) is at this moment
picking off “The Flowers of the
Forest” —and believe me, those
blossoms die hard—l’ve had to
write this with Cotton-wool in my
ears. Could you oblige with a
couple of sets of those rubber
earplug things we used to use for
surfing up north, by next mail?
And get my name down for some
quiet kind of posting, effective
sooner than possible? Say a
high-level bombing range, or an
experimental jet station?
Yours s.n.a.f.u. as ever,
RUSTY.


"How well do you know him?"
Three Years with
MENZIES
By STEWART COCKBURN
MENZIES’S flair for
relevancy in administra-
tion is one of the dis-
tinguishing marks of his
capacity. Refer to him any
grave and complicated problem
in politics, economics, or what
you will, and, if he acknowledges
its importance, he will apply his
mind to it like a surgeon.
First he will, as’it were, strip
aside the superfluous flesh, lay-
ing bare the bones and arteries
and ligaments. What is the struc-
ture of this problem? What is
the heart of the matter?
Diagnosis confirmed, he will
examine methodically, meticu-
lously, the remedies, short- or
long-term, whichever he sees as
the more appropriate in the
circumstances. Having given his
own opinion, he will listen care-
fully to the opinions of his
advisers.
He is rarely hasty in judgment.
If, in his view, his colleagues
or advisers cite factors to him
which ought to modify the course
of action he himself proposes he
will without hesitation act
accordingly.
With several departmental
officials at his side, I heard him
in London (in June, 1953)
analyse with superb skill and
clarity some current issue in
international affairs preparatory
to going into an important con-
ference at Downing Street or
Whitehall. A mediocre official
might be overawed by such a
splendid piece of advocacy and
exposition. Not so one of the
senior Defence Department
representatives who was present.
“I agree with you, sir,” he
said, “in everything but
this”
He paused; and the Prime
Minister, who at that stage
obviously felt satisfied that on
the facts before him his judg-
ment was right, raised his heavy
eyebrows and motioned the
official to speak on.
“You’ve overlooked this very
important fact,” said the
Defence man, and proceeded to
explain.
Menzies heard him through,
then replied at once:
“You’re perfectly right! I’m
very grateful to you for pointing
that out.”
“Would you like me to go
through it again, sir?” inquired
the gratified official, whose
explanation had occupied five or
10 minutes, and who doubted
whether a non-military man
could grasp in just one hearing
the technical details which he
had traversed.
“There’ll be no need for that,”
remarked the Prime Minister.
“I suggest we ought to be getting
along.”
When the conference took
place Menzies argued the Aus-
tralian case, now embodying the
Defence man’s modification,
with such force and cogency,
and with such a perfect grasp of
technical detail, that Australia
carried her point.
That is acknowledged pretty
generally as one of Menzies's
greatest assets —his willingness
to hear the other fellow’s point
of view and act on it if he finds
merit in it, or to admit readily
some fault of his own \f he finds
it so proved. It is the mark of
the lawyer, of course.
On more than one occasion I
have ventured to argue with him,
when I felt very sure of my
ground, in favor of an opinion to
which he did not at that moment
subscribe. On each occasion he
has heard me right out, and
sometimes, eyeing me narrowly,
so that I hardly knew what was
coming, commented: ' “But
you’re quite right!”
It may have happened only
once in 50 times that I was right
and he was wrong. But his ready
and complete assent to the other
man’s proposition when it is
soundly based does much to
convince one of the Prime
Minister’s intellectual honesty.
It doesn’t matter who the pro-
poser of any contrary opinion
might be. It could be a Cabinet
Minister. It could be a con-
fidential-typist. It could be a
The author of this series
of articles was for three
years Press-secretary to Mr.
Menzies.
member of the party which be
opposes in Parliament. But if
Menzies recognises that that
contrary opinion supersedes his
own in merit, he bows to it
instantly, without shame, and
without bearing ill-will.
Once he has heard all other
opinions on a subject under con-
sideration, and has successfully
carried his own judgment against
those of his opponents, however,
he will maintain that judgment
resolutely.
One of his chief complaints
against both colleagues and
others is that they tend to waste
time on trivialities not worth
serious attention. Refer to him
a problem the solution of which
he regards as inconsequential,
and he will probably refuse to
be bothered with it.
“You work it out for yourself,”
he will say, often brusquely.
If this impatience in the face
of triviality is a fault in terms
of human relations, fair-minded
people will grant (hat there is
surely much to be said in
extenuation of it.
It has been said that Menzies
lacks the ability to delegate and
is tardy in making decisions.
There is some basis for this
charge, but it has almost cer-
tainly been exaggerated. A senior
public servant who works very
close to him, and who rejects the
notion out of hand, once offered
me these reasons for the exist-
ence of the charge;
9 Menzies’s incontestable
brilliance as a public speaker
has led his critics to seek some
more plausible ground on which
to attack him politically—some
ground on \yhich he does not
automatically prove the attacks
ludicrous whenever he appears in
public.
9 As leader of a coalition
Government he must frequently
defer decisions until both sides
of the coalition have been fully
consulted. A stickler for pro-
priety in method, he consults
and informs before committing
his Cabinet to vital decisions,
9 Even when fully alive to
opinions contrary to his own, ne
sometimes chews over a problem
in solitude for so long that those
around him are unaware of his
continued preoccupation with it.
The assumption is made that
“the Prime Minister has shelved
such-and-such an issue.” It is
many times false.
But at times of acute pressure
major problems and their solu-
tions do sometimes tend to jam-
up in the bottleneck of his office.
This is due not so much to
Menzies’s unwillingness. to
delegate authority as to the
reluctance of other people to
act without being certain of the
Prime Minister’s full appro-
bation.
If there is one passion which
Menzies displays almost to the
point of pedantry it is his passion
for accuracy. Colleagues and
senior departmental men know
this, and rather than risk his
anger at a job poorly done, they
queue-up for the stamp of his
approval, and for his last-minute
advice, before the die is cast. So
often he can himself do a task
more capably than anyone else.
And so his own lofty standards
and abilities induce hesitancy in
subordinates who would
normally act unilaterally.
He summed-up his views on
accuracy in an address to a
group of secondary - school
children in Melbourne in 1952:
“To think accurately is a jolly
hard thing and therefore it is a
thing well worth doing. You
cannot think accurately unless
you know what you are going to
think about. Therefore I would
like you to say to yourselves;
‘So far as I can, I am going to
use all the training I have in
order to think accurately’—be-
cause that is the beginning of
real thought and the beginning
of any real kind of intelligence,
to say nothing of intellectual
life.
“Some people have achieved
the power to think accurately,
however, and they turn out to
be a most dreadfully dreary lot.
It is, I am afraid, a horrible
spectacle to see someone whose
mind works perfectly but who
has nothing else but a mind.
“Because an awful lot of
trouble has been caused in my
lifetime by people who could
think but who could not feel —
who had cultivated their heads to
such perfection that their hearts
had shrivelled and they had no
soul, or no soul that was worth
finding, anyway.
“So not only must we learn
to think accurately, but also to
feel broadly and with sympathy
and generosity.”
As an administrator, there is
one other notable characteristic
of Menzies which deserves
mention. It is his capacity to
inspire loyalty in his immediate
staff.
I remember once, years ago,
striking-up conversation in a
Canberra hotel with a man I did
not know. It wasn’t long before
Menzies’s name cropped up, and,
although I had not then met
him, I ventured a couple of
derogatory remarks about him
based on opinions which I had
heard from other people.
“Look here,” said my com-
panion, “have you ever met
Menzies?”
“Never,” I admitted.
“Then you’ll forgive me for
saying so, but no one who had
met him . . . certainly no one
who knew him well . . . would
ever make such statements.”
“How well do you know him,
anyway?” I countered.
“Well enough to know what
I’m talking about—l was once
his private-secretary.”
I don’t know that this man
was ever a favorite of the Prime
Minister. Certainly, in his sub-
sequent career, he has never
maintained contact with Menzies.
And that makes his comment all
the more significant.
Down the years I have known
a dozen or more men and women
who have at one time or another
served Menzies as members of
his personal staff. Probably no
one has better opportunities to
see into a man’s soul (apart from
his family and his acknowledged
friends) than a secretary. The
secretary knows him in every
mood, every crisis. He is
thoroughly familiar with his
correspondence and with his
working methods. He knows a
good deal about his private life.
He sees him triumphant. He sees
him defeated. He sees him under
pressure, strain and attack. He
sees him tired and irritable. He
sees him often with his defences
right down.
It’s worth recording, therefore,
that not one of his personal
staff whom I have ever met,
whether still associated with him
or not, will hear Menzies under
attack and fail to defend him.
It would be nonsense to pre-
tend that he is without fault. He
has some of the most human
faults imaginable, all the more
disarming because they occur in
a man of his tremendous intel-
lectual stature.
The Burden on the
Prime Minister
SOMETIME, perhaps after
two or three more Prime
Ministers have died because of
the strains of office, the people
of Australia may realise that
they expect too much of their
First Citizen.
It may then be possible for the
Prime Minister of the day to take
regular holidays, even at times
when he would normally be
required in Canberra, without
the man in the street, who most
probably enjoys a 40-hour week,
complaining:
“I see the Prime Minister's
enjoying himself at the Davis
Cup. What a lovely life! ”
It is common to pick up a
paper and read that the Prime
Minister of Great Britain is
holidaying in the south of
France, whilst Cabinet, in his
.absence, is carrying on with
routine business. The President
of the United States can take a
few days off for golf or fishing
half a dozen times a year without
the average American, who is
probably no lest, democratic than
the average Australian, deciding
that the Presidency is a sinecure.
From time to time his poli-
tical enemies circulate rumors to
the effect that some functional
disorder has overtaken Menzies
and that behind his occasional
illnesses usually bronchial
trouble, or conjunctivitis, induced
by overwork which has lowered
his normal resistance to infec-
tion —lies something much more
serious.
At the time of writing, early
in 1954, the Prime Minister is,
to the best of the belief of all
who know him intimately, in
splendid health. He does not
suffer from any one of the dozen
or so ailments which have been
attributed to him by the peddlers
of gossip for nearly a decade.
But at what point does a
normally - strong constitution
break down through prolonged
overstrain?
Lyons died in 1939 at the age
of 60; Curtin in 1945 at 60;
Chifley, the “man of iron,” in
1951 at 65.
Menzies is today 59. He has
been Prime Minister for a total
of more than six years. If he
wins the coming elections he
will unquestionably go on at
the same pace so long as he
remains Prime Minister. His
doctors have told him there is
no reason why he should not do
so, provided he takes a regular
and adequate holiday each year.
Menzies comes of a long-lived
family. His parents and grand-
parents all lived till they were
past 80. It will be interesting,
therefore, to see whether the
popular novelist who recently
portrayed him alive, if somewhat
shaky, 30 years hence will prove
a reliable clairvoyant!
Meantime, if anything is to be
done to lighten the Prime
Minister’s load it will probably
be necessary for Cabinet col-
leagues to unite relentlessly
against Menzies.
The conscientious Prime
Minister —and most Prime
Ministers reach the top because,
among other things, they are
conscientious —is his own most
persistent enemy. Too often his
own deep sense of responsibility
drives him on beyond the safety-
line, beyond that point at which
the average man would know
that by continuing to drive him-
self he risked a major break-
down.
It is this sense of final respon-
sibility which is perhaps the most
awful load that bears upon anv
national leader. The ultimate
decision is his; his, too, the
loneliness here of the knowledge
that in his own land there is no
temporal authority above him
whom he can consult and with
whom theburden can be shared.
At work, at home, on rare holi-
days, he can never be free of the
pervading realisation that if the
political or administrative
machines break down at any of a
thousand critical points the
Prime Minister will have to see
to it that order is restored, or
bear the blame if it isn’t.
An obvious, and long-
advocated, reform would be a
reorganisation of the Cabinet.
At present all Ministers are
members of Cabinet, and all
have the right and opportunity
to offer their opinion on any
submission under current
Cabinet discussion.
In Australia, as in any other
country, men rarely reach
Ministerial rank without gifts of
personality, character and self-
expression, or without convic-
tions on current affairs which
are usually strong and often
dogmatic. Put 20 such men into
one Cabinet-room and the result,
however strong the chairman, is
not hard to imagine.
An attempt at reform was
made by Menzies soon after
he took office in 1949. He estab-
lished a system of Cabinet com-
mittees, each consisting of a
handful of appropriate Ministers,
to deal with matters which it was
felt did not require detailed con-
sideration by full Cabinet
Endorsement by Cabinet of the
recommendations of these com-
mittees then became almost
automatic.
A further attempt at reform
was the appointment of several
Parliamentary Under-Secretaries
whose duties were to assist
heavily-burdened Ministers, such
as those holding the portfolios of
Commerce and Agriculture and
External Affairs.
For a time all seemed to be
going well. Then an argument
sprang up as to their Constitu-
tional status. The written
Federal Constitution lays it down
(clause 44, sub-clause IV) that


“Any person who holds any
office of profit under the
Crown... .shall be incapable of
being chosen ot of sitting as a
Senator or a member of the
House of Representatives.”
The Constitution provided that
this clause should not apply to
Ministers of State. But the
Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, Mr. Cameron, decided
that the Under-Secretaries were
not provided for in the terms of
the Constitution, and that if they
accepted any additional emolu-
ment for their additional duties,
they would forfeit their Parlia-
mentary seats.
The net result of all this argu-
ment has been to hybridise the
movement towards reform. Had
the innovation of the Parlia-
mentary Under - Secretaries
proved a success more would
probably have been appointed.
The Australian Executive would
have become more like its
counterpart in the United
Kingdom; and the advent of an
Inner Cabinet, with junior
Ministers and Under-Secretaries
having no place in it, would have
been brought nearer.
Every now anti then a sign
still emerges that we are moving
in this general direction. The
Nicholas Tribunal on Parlia-
mentary Salaries proposed, in
1952, differential allowances for
senior and junior Ministers. The
Government accepted its report
and introduced legislation, sup-
ported by both sides of the
House, to give effect to the
financial recommendations in the
tribunal’s report.
So far, however, the Prime
Minister has not found it appro-
priate to designate senior and
junior Ministers by name, or to
reduce the number of Ministers
entitled to sit in full Cabinet.
There are three or four key
Ministers whom the Prime
Minister consults when taking
quick emergency decisions. This
is the nearest Australia has ever
got to an official Inner Cabinet.
However, the principle has at
least been accepted and incor-
porated in the Statute Books.
Creation of an Inner Cabinet
would undoubtedly mean more
delegation of authority and tend
to free the Prime Minister of the
day from the study and con-
sideration of much detail which
circumstances at present force
upon him. He would have more
time for high-policy matters, and
the reduction in the size of the
Cabinet would permit greater
concentration on the great issues
of the day.
Assassination
fvETECTIVE - SERGEANT
(now Inspector) KEITH
HUBBARD, of the Victorian
C. 1.8., stepped out of the
shadows in the foyer of the
Hotel Windsor.
“Excuse me,” he said, “can
you let me have the Prime
Minister’s detailed itinerary while
he is in Melbourne?”
“Why?” I queried, with a
smile. “Are you expecting the
Corns?”
But Hubbard did not smile
back. He looked round and
motioned me to follow him along
a quiet passage.
“We believe an attempt may
be made on the Prime Minister’s
life,” he said. “We’ll have to post
a couple of men outside his room
all night. Should he be told
about it now, or later?”
The events which culminated
in this scene had their genesis in
the post-war unemployment
which occurred in Australia in
1952. The highest peak came
during the middle months of the
year. It was nothing like that
of the 1930’5. Nor was it nearly
as serious as in many other
countries of the civilised world.
But the Government’s opponents
naturally played this political
ace, as they conceived it, for all
it was worth.
Menzies’s own edict at the time
was that all unemployment of
those able and willing to work
must be ended as speedily as
possible.
While the problem of the
workless still held the headlines
the death occurred of Colonel
Rupert Ryan, M.H.R., who held
the key Victorian seat of
Flinders in the Commonwealth
Parliament. It made a by-
election necessary at a time
highly unpropitious for the Gov-
eminent, and Menzies decided to
speak three times in the cam-
paign, which was rightly regarded
as a crucial test of his Govern-
ment’s current standing with the
public.
With his wife, daughter and
secretarial staff, Menzies flew
from Canberra to Melbourne on
the morning of September 30.
1952. As we got into our cars
at Essendon we noticed a police
wireless patrol-car near by. Its
occupants were obviously watch-
ing the members of the Prime
Minister’s party. When we drove
off towards the city they fell in
behind at a discreet distance.
“It looks as if the Corns are
going to be on the job again
tonight,” I remarked to Menzies.
Actually, if no one else
attended to interrupt, he would
norma Uy prefer a few Com-
mun i s t s a t his meetings. They
were rare iy a ma tch for him in
any verbal encounter, and as he
sharpened his tongue on them it
gave the meeting life and interest
an( j helped hold an audience
together.
when Sergeant Hubbard spoke
to me k was th e first time I’d
ex P erienced anything like this
so directly. I knew vaguely that
threats had been made in the
past. Mrs. Menzies also used to
tell of the children’s school-days,
when warning letters would
arrive, invariably anonymous,
and she would be afraid to let
them come home alone. Other
children occasionally used to
tease them about their parents
or some other family representa-
five always meeting them when
school was done. The children
themselves were naturally never
told why, and they used to feel
that they were being molly-
coddled.
“What are the facts?” I asked
Hubbard.
“We’ve been tipped-off from
Sydney,” he replied. “A group
0 f unemployed migrants decided
that to draw attention to their
situation they would assassinate
the Prime Minister. We believe
o ne of them left Sydney for Mel-
bourne last night. That’s all we
know at the moment. We’re hav-
ing trains and aircraft watched,
a check on cars is much harder,
D f course.”
Jt was arranged that Menzies
should be told at an appropriate
time. If it could be avoided,
Mrs. Menzies and daughter
Heather were not to know.
Later I formally asked the
prime Minister—though I knew
j n advance what his reply would
he—whether I could tell the
story to the Press,
“On no account” was his
re nlv. “There’s nothing of the
charm of novelty in this. It’s
happened before. The chances
are 100 to 1 against these chaps
having the guts to do anything if
the opportunity comes. Don’t
flatter them by making them the
object of public attention.”
But it wasn’t many months
since the Prime Minister had
been woken in the middle of
the night by a newspaperman and
told of the assassination of his
brother - Prime Minister of
Pakistan, Liaquat Ali Khan, a
man whom he greatly admired,
and for whom he had conceived
something close to affection
during their meetings in London
and Karachi.
Until we left Melbourne
detectives guarded the Menzieses
day and night, though once the
Prime Minister deliberately gave
them the slip and went out for a
stroll down Collins-street.
At his public meetings he
would go up on to the platform
as usual and behave normally,
To those of us who knew of the
threat to his life it seemed that
he was behaving with courage.
But I doubt if he himself thougnt
twice about it after the first dis-
closure of the threat.
A few days later there was an
engagement in Sydney, where
the core of the unemployment
problem existed. The Prime
Minister flew up from Canberra
in a T.A.A. DG3 in the after-
noon. I looked for the plain-
clothes men when we landed, and
they weren’t' hard to pick out.
They followed us in from the
airport, and were in my room a
minute or two after we arrived
at the Hotel Australia. They
wanted the itinerary. No, they
had nothing further to com-
municate. They were, however,
taking all possible precautions.
After dinner, the Prime
Minister drove round to the
Assembly Hall for a rally of
key personnel of the Liberal
party—a good many of them at
that stage themselves hostile to
the Prime Minister and the Gov-
CANBERRA CRICKET
“The Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, has agreed to bowl first ball in a match against the West
Indian team in Canberra.”
Bulletin cartoon comment of October 17, 1951, on the obstructionist tactics then being tried against the
Menzies Government by the Opposition and its add bedfellows who found the anti-inflation Budget or anti-
Communist moves unpalatable. The comment also touches on Mr. Menzies's strenuous campaigning for
united national effort in fighting inflation and battling towards recovery.
ernment almost to the point of
assassination! For memories of
the “horror” Budget were still
green; and I think Menzies had
never agreed more than he did
at that time with his late pre-
decessor Chifley, who once
remarked that the most sensitive
nerve in the human body was
the hip-pocket nerve!
Well, the crisis passed and the
Prime Minister returned to Can-
berra. Unemployment continued
steadily to fall. Probably the dis-
sidents found that, after all,
there was no Australian Govern-
ment plot to keep them indefi-
nitely without jobs.
• • • •
The only other occasion on
which I discussed the subject
of his personal security with the
Prime Minister was several
months later, after an incident in
the Parliamentary lobbies at
Canberra. A man was over-
powered in the passage outside
the Prime Minister’s suite. He
had been muttering something
about “getting the boss,” and he
carried an open clasp-knife with
which he attacked a messenger,
E. J. Burke. The knife went
skidding along the floor during
the struggle which took place
before Burke and Sydney
journalist Alan Reid over-
powered him.
It was said the man might
have been looking for the
Immigration Minister, Mr. Holt.
The fact remains that he was out-
side the Prime Minister’s suite.
If Menzies had appeared at the
door at the right moment he
would almost certainly have been
attacked.
“Look, sir,” I said to him
later, “don’t you think it’s time
you bowed to the security service
and let them roster a proper
guard for you? The character
of this country is changing. You
must be the only Prime Minister
of consequence in the democratic
world without some sort of
personal guard.”
Menzies looked at me with
eyes wrinkling up in amusement.
“Forget it, boy,” he said.
“Thank your lucky stars that
there’s at least one country in
the world where we still don’t
have to endure that sort of
thing.”
That was all. He went off
down the stairs, still chuckling.
Yet is it a subject to joke
about?
The physical and moral
courage of individual Prime
Ministers is not a sufficient
excuse for the lack of security
precautions which are regarded
the world over as normal. Talk
of this being a “special-case”
country, a country where high
standards of living and limited
class-distinctions make the risk
less great, is sentimental. It is
dangerous by its very plausibility.
One of the major difficulties
will be that the first Prime
Minister to introduce such a
system will inevitably face
accusations of cowardice and
other such slurs. For that
reason alone it is unlikely that
Menzies will ever permit it while
he himself remains Prime
Minister. He would surely be
acting correctly, however, if he
announced that the security
service had been instructed to
establish such a system from the
moment his successor took
office.
The curious Australian attitude
towards commonsense security
measures was well illustrated
when it was decided in 1951 to
build a small “guard-room’* at
the gates of the Prime Minister’s
Lodge in Canberra, and to roster
peace-officers for duty there in
order to keep unauthorised
people from entering what is,
after all, the private home of the
Prime Minister of the day.
Mr. Ward, M.H.R., suggested
in Parliament that this signified
Mr. Menzies was demanding
police protection. Thousands of
people probably believed there
was something in what Ward
alleged. The truth was that
tourists had begun to make the
life of the Menzies family
intolerable; the post-war tourist
concentration upon the capital
had reached record levels; the
(i Continued on page 34)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
..
. *
m
111
if mki :
h fcf I*. -ii
*lib!
:
'"v;- •'v- V
!in«
f 11
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONXY BATES:
Single Rooms—
From 18/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 84/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
ANNUAL EASTER SALES OF BLOODSTOCK
will be held at
NEWMARKET STABLES. RANDWICK
as follows:
795 THOROUGHBRED YEABUINGS
80th, 88nd, 83rd and 37th APKIU, 1954,
commencing: at 10 a.m. each day
Intending buyers please note that a large number of yearlings are now at
our Newmarket Stables, Randwick, and are available for inspection, between
10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. and 2 p.ln. and i. 30 p.m. daily.
BROOD MARES
THURSDAY, 89th APRIU, 1954
The catalogue will include particulars of: —
140 WELL-BRED BROOD MARES, many with foals at foot by well-known
sires and served again.
BTAUUIONB, UNTRIED STOCK
AND RACEHORSES-IN-TRAINING
FRIDAY, 30th APRIU, 1954
Particulars have already been received of the following: —
STALLIONS: FRIAR’S FANCY (imp.), PORT VISTA (imp;).
(imp.), LE BOSC GIARD (imp.), COLD SHOWER, FRENCH NEWS,
KARAPOTI, BON VOYAGE, DYNAMITE, etc.
ONE HUNDRED RACEHORSES including the well-known performers
KAREN, MAZOOKA, TRIZAMI, ROYAL EAGLE, CYMBIDIUM.PLATO,
FRIENDLY FELLOW, LA HEY, BOONCHUEY, UNFAAN, RIVER CAM
(imp.), CAPTAIN THEO, BLUE GLARE. CELERITY, FAIRGLO. FOX-
AWAY. MERCURY, RED TRIAL, ON CHARGE, RUMYLE, NONDALAD,
LADY ELTON, STAR PILOT, VENIDIS, EL ZIET (imp.), MEROPE,
FLYING EAST, ALATUS, DEEP CHANNEL, BONNY GIFT. etc.
Also a number of UNTRIED STOCK
WIUIAM INGLIS & SON Pty. ltd.
Bloodstock Salesmen,
28 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
When a stable shelters a
champion it has to be smart to
place him right, and to the best
advantage for betting purposes.
One has to hand it to those be-
hind Carioca, who all along have
shown judgment in selecting the
right races and in making most
of what betting opportunities
there have been. No doubt
many thousands of pounds have
been won by close connections
of this outstanding galloper.
The Carioca stable would
seem to be sitting pretty so far
as the A.J.C. Doncaster Handi-
cap is concerned. It has secured
much the best of the betting-
market on the big mile at Rand-
wick on Saturday week. Last
Saturday week, prior to racing
at Warwick Farm, Carioca was
the medium of heavy backing
for the Doncaster, just when
many rank-and-file punters had
considered him a really good
Sydney Cup prospect. To close
followers of the stable, however,
the switch to the Doncaster
wasn’t surprising.
• • « •
After Carioca’s win in the
Liverpool Handicap at Warwick
Farm last Saturday he was
quickly installed a warm favor-
ite for the Doncaster. Doubles
beginning with him and ending
with prominent Sydney Cup
horses are now at a price not
suitable to most racegoers.
The Carioca stable again
showed keen judgment in select-
ing the Liverpool Handicap in-
stead of contesting the Chip-
ping Norton Stakes. In the
w.-f.-a. event Carioca would have
been at unattractive odds, but in
the Liverpool Handicap Silver
Phantom came into the betting
picture, though, as far as the
race was concerned, there was
only one in it. Carioca had an
easy win in course-record time
of 1.23 i for the seven furlongs,
while Silver Phantom missed a
place.
•' • • •
One bet of an even £2OOO was
noted about Carioca in the
Liverpool and several of an
even £lOOO. Not at any stage
did his backers feel uneasy. He
carried 9.10, and drops to 9.7
in the Doncaster. Silver Phan-
tom goes down from 9.5 to
8.10, which might be a con-
sideration, but weights seldom
are a wholly determining factor,
otherwise results would become
automatic. To keen observers,
however, the difference of only
51b. at Warwick Farm pointed
conclusively to Carioca as the
likely winner, while additional
factors were the small field and
Carioca’s racing on his home
track. Even so, Silver Phantom
would need to improve sharply
to finish ahead of Carioca next
Saturday week.
Though Prince Cortauld
carried 9.5 to easy victory in the
Warwick Farm Cobbity Handi-
cap and drops to Bst. in the Don-
caster, he, too, is set a tough
task against Carioca and other
top-rankers in the big mile.
Still, in the past eight years three
three-year-olds have won the
event —Oversight (1951 ; 7.13),
Bernbrook (1949 ; 8.4) and Blue
Legend (1946 ; 7.5). Close on
20 three-year-olds have won the
race since its inception in 1866,
but nearly all had less than Bst.
to carry. Prince Cortauld is a
sprinter, and the McCarten
stable is expected to give him
his chance in the Doncaster
rather than contest the mile-and-
three-quarters St. Leger.
Electro, following his impres-
sive third to Prince Cortauld in
the Cobbity Handicap for three-
year-olds, in which he earned
9.2, is a likfly candidate for the
A.J.C. St. Leger, which will be
weak in real stayers. Electro’s
best St. Leger pointer was his
good second to Prince Morvi in
the A.J.C. Derby, so he could
be a real classic prospect in the
absence of crack three-year-old
Cromis. Villager, who is to run
in the weight-for-age Rawson
Stakes at Rosehill this coming
Saturday, also is a St. Leger
candidate. Though he will be
tested in Saturday’s select com-
pany, the race will serve as a
lead-up to the classic.
Fourteen years ago Darby
Munro won his first Chipping
Norton Stakes on Reading,
who went to the stud in
America. Munro won his
latest Chipping Norton on Gal-
lant Archer at Warwick Farm
on Saturday, and displayed all
his old canny tactics to snatch
victory on the post. He is a
master tactician in this type of
contest, and once again was too
smart for opponents. Munro
also won this race twice on
Katanga.
Reading, by the way, ran the
Chipping Norton mile and a
quarter in 2.3%. Odds-on Bern-
borough, in 1946, ran the dis-
tance in easily a record for
this event, but on that occasion
and also when Reading won, the
race was decided at Randwick.
Tarien made a gallant effort to
lead all the way in Saturday’s
running of the Chipping Nor-
ton, and almost succeeded.
Hydrogen, third, was similarly
placed in the race last year, and
was second to Delta in 1952. He
will have to do a lot better to be
a strong contender for Randwick
w-f.-a. contests.
Hard riding by Neville Sell-
wood enabled favorite Belle
Tirage to dead-heat with un-
beaten Brisbane two-year-old
speedster Roseglade in the
Warwick Farm Regent’s Park
Handicap. Had the northerner
drawn a barrier position
nearer the rails, however,
she would most likely have
won; she is easy on the
eyes and looks a filly of class.
Belle Tirage, bred by H. P.
Toose, of Hamilton (N.Z.) stud,
is by Faux Tirage (imp.) from
Mi-Carene (imp.) by Donatello
II from Recreation by Solario.
She cost 1500 gns. as a yearling.
Faux Tirage, a winner of five
races in England and £8744 in
stakes, is closely related to three
noted sires, Nasrullah, Fair Trial
and Mahmoud, as well as to
Nizami (imp.), sire of two win-
ners of the Melbourne Cup.
In the past four years Mel-
bourne two-year-olds have
finished first on three occasions
in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, though one of them,
Cromis, was later disqualified.
The other winners were Pure
Fire and True Course. King
Bom is to have a shot at the
Randwick classic on Saturday
week following his brilliant win
in the Katandra Handicap at
Caulfield last Saturday, for
which he started at 5 to 4, It was
his second successive win and he
was assisted to victory by the
claiming of a 71b. allowance for
apprentice C. Smart, who also
“I'll back him against Brown's rooster any day.”
had the mount at the colt’s prior
win. In the Sires’ Produce Stakes
W. Williamson is expected to
be in the saddle. King Bom will
be tested by Sydney’s best young-
sters, but he will be an interesting
competitor.
Nominations for the weight-
for-age nine-furlongs Rosehill
Rawson Stakes included Tarien,
Hydrogen, Carioca, Royal
Stream, Gallant Archer, Gold
Scheme and Villager. The event
has proved a real trap for young
players, as the favorite has con-
sistently let backers down.
Twelve months ago Carioca, at
9 to 4 on, was narrowly beaten
by Tarien (8 to 1), with Regal
Glitter (50 to 1) third. Bob
Cherry (3 to 1) was the only
other runner. A couple of weeks
later Tarien was first past the
post iq the Doncaster Handicap,
but was disqualified.
* ■ * ♦
The Rugby Union season
opened pleasantly in Sydney on
Saturday. Earlier trial games
gave an indication of what was
available in the way of material
(and most of it is pretty good),
and what is as important —how
that material is conditioned. A
sufficient number of players with
chances of appearing against the
Fijians are in top condition, for
this stage of the season. The
rest fair-to-middling.
As predicted by just about
every sports-writer last year, the
tour of South Africa has spread
its benefits through the clubs. As
good an example as any —or,
rather, several examples—can be
found in the Eastern Suburbs-
Randwick game, which Rand-
wick won 22-8. The Randwick
pack was heavy and good, and
prepared the way by determined
rucking and by backing-up move-
ments. Other games—Uni-
versity’s win, 10-8, over Gordon ;
St. George’s 30-13 victory against
Parramatta; Eastwood’s 19-8
win against Northern Suburbs,
and Manly’s 17-12 win over
Drummoyne —were good for the
start of the season. The Uni-
versity-Gordon game, very
good.
Eastern Suburbs are as yef an
unbalanced team; forwards are
solid, but the breakaways have
not the brilliance in defence and
attack of some of the interna-
tionals and near-intemationals
in other clubs. Besides, Easts
lost their five-eighth early in the
game. None of this, however,
detracts from Randwick’s
victory.
In the backs Eastern Suburbs
have a particularly brilliant half,
a steady and promising five-
eighth, and a first-class winger.
If Murray Tate comes back to
the five-eighth position, and
Ellison moves to inside-centre,
there should be an improvement.
John Bosler, the half, has
improved wonderfully with the
tour. He gives a fine service
from the scrum, is remarkably
fit, and can penetrate a mass of
forwards where there seems
hardly room for a fox-terrier.
He has another merit in a half —
coolness. Nothing is more
exasperating to the hard-pressed
forwards than the familiar yap-
ping half. Bosler’s advice during
a game is calm, conversational
and helpful.
• • • •
Taken all round, Australian
Rugby Union has made big
strides lately: with a tour of
South Africa under its belt, the
crowd-pleasing Fijians coming
this season, and the game
expanding in country centres in
N.S.W.
* * *
With most of the preliminary
skirmishing over, the V.F.L, is
nearly ready to get down to
serious business. Collingwood
has just about all its premier
team rarin’ to go, with injured
“Mocca” Dunstan and Jack
Hamiltoh back again. The Cats
and the Tigers are sharpening
their claws, while Essendon has
recovered from the shock of star
John Coleman’s near-retirement.
Hawthorn appears to have got
a bargain in 6ft. Sin. South Aus-
fralian full-forward “Candles”
Thompson.
• • • %•
“Roscoe”: Pat Twomey, one
of Collingwood’s famous
brothers, has had to retire
through foot-trouble —he could
finish as a cripple if he continued
playing. At 25 he was keen to
play this year, and had been
showing out in practice. Pat and
his two brothers. Bill and Mick,
all played in last year’s grand-
final against Geelong, the first
time three brothers had ever
done so. Sooner or later there
could again three Twomeys
with Collingwood firsts —young
brother Peter (17) is a promising
Magpie recruit. %
* * *
With the record total of four
from this part of the world in
the crew —E. O. G. Pain and
J. G. McLeod (Sydney), J. A.
Gobbo (Melbourne) and E. V.
Vine (Geelong)—Oxford ran
right up to its record-breaking
training form in stoushing Cam-
bridge in the Boat Race
(the hundredth) by four
and a half lengths, which is a
fair stretch of water. It broke a
bad run of outsffor the winners—
so bad that, despite the record
training-spin by the Oxford crew
a week earlier, the Cambridge
chaps remained favorites to take
it out. Oxford led all the way.
Newington won the University
Regatta open eights pulling up,
with Kings and High well back
in the places. The winners should
be all the better for the race,
too, with the Head of the River
coming up next Saturday.
* ♦ •
Jimmy Carruthers out-
pointed very-useful Queens-
lander Bobby Sinn (8.6|) in their
Sydney Stadium twelve-rounder,
but Sinn, still fighting well at the
final bell, made it tough for the
world champ. It was a warm-
up scrap, and would certainly
give Jimmy some of the toughen-
ing needed for defending his title
—the sharpening, too ; his timing
was astray. He won clearly
enough, but would have won
easier if it hadn’t been so long
for him between fights.
In his latest two scraps in
Australia —against Gault and
against Sinn —Carruthers suf-
fered damage over the eyes, and
reports went into detail about
how many stitches were put in.
Which means that Jimmy is now
for ever vulnerable, and, any
time, the stitch-marks are liable
to let him down. Once stitches
there were avoided if at all
possible and the gashes stuck
together with plaster. It involved
a long time getting right, and the
scars showed plain, removing
whatever the victim may have
had in the way of good looks.
But at least there were then fewer
of these stitch-marks that a mere
rub of the glove will open. And
for a good many years now Aus-
tralian boxers have been
notoriously vulnerable in that
quarter.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £SOO,OOO.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
J. Bull's Defence Innovations
The New Toys
of Mars
By "EK DUM"
THE year 1954 will go down
in military history as on©
of transition in methods
and weapons, and the dis-
cussions of plans in this year’s
Parliaments will frame the real
beginning of changes for which
the whole defence world has
been waiting. The new de-
fence is changing over from
drawing-board and pilot-plant
to factory and parade-ground.
There may have seemed to
the man in the street an undue
delay in preparing the materials
of the new world of defence.
But —with the United Kingdom,
as usual, making the blueprint
to be used as a world example—
the West has adopted the policy
of “the long haul,” as it was
called in British Parliamentary
debate the other day: the policy
under which the rush to arm at
any price with whatever might
be to hand has been eschewed,
and a carefully-thought-out pro-
gramme substituted to fit into
the economic framework, not
only the current year’s, but for
a decade or so ahead.
This applies to the whole of
the Nato nations, on a basis
which allows each to cpntribute,
according to its means, some-
thing which is essential and
which does not duplicate what
is provided by others. The aim,
as stated by Lord Alexander, is
that “there shall be no dissi-
pation of energies or wasting of
our strength.”
All precedents save the basic
ones have been forgotten. There
still are some basic ones. The
trends are shown by last
month’s debate on the Estimates
in the British Parliament.
In the Navy the emphasis is
on extensive and world-wide ex-
perience for both officers and
men, concentrated into limited
commissions which will run
from 18 months in ordinary
ships to two years in aircraft-
carriers, to be served partly in
home waters, partly in the Medi-
terranean and partly in wider
seas.
All previous conceptions of
what constitutes naval hitting-
power have been thrown into
the Channel,
+ +
The six-incher which would
pump out 10001 b. of shells
(1001 b. each) a minute gives
place to an automatic which
can deliver five tons of metal a
minute with a muzzle-velocity
beyond previous experience in
naval guns. They may not have
the range of the heavy naval gun
(on 1939 standards, by the way, a
15-incher could deliver only
39001 b. of metal per minute),
but they will have a hitting-
power never before known in
heavy weapons, and they will
be fitted with electronic brains
which will render it almost im-
possible for them to miss.
Thus, light cruisers will ac-
quire what would have been
considered super-battleship fire-
power during World War 11,
combined with the fact that the
ships themselves present a
minimum target irioving at
maximum speed and with maxi-
mum manoeuvrability. The
line between victory and defeat
in contest between vessels alone
—which will be a rare occur-
rence—will be fine drawn in the
region of initiative in striking-
power and instrument-accuracy.
The nature of the force itself
will be almost entirely changed.
The emphasis in construction is
on mine-sweepers and anti-
submarine ships, which, of
course, include aircraft-carriers,
the only leviathans likely to
continue to exist. Their nature
and importance will change with
the development of the new
vertically-rising aircraft, which
can land or take-off perpendicu-
larly, and of the convertible
helicopter, which is already in
prototype form —it can fly
either as a helicopter or as a
normal machine.
The medium bomber, long-
range and capable of crossing
even the Pacific in a couple of
hops, reaches a ne\| stage in its
career with the development of
the light, portable atomic wea-
pon or device recently described
by the - F.B.L in the United
States as capable of being
smuggled in a compact form.
The atom-bombs used against
Hiroshima and Nagasaki were
so bulky that only a Super-
fortress with a converted bomb-
bay could carry them. The
F. 8.1. now envisages the
smuggling into the United States
of atomic balls a few inches in
diameter packed in high-explo-
sive to compress them and dis-
guised in plastic shapes.
+ +
In the R.A.F., which deals
much in fighters with short-
distance range and purely de-
fensive operations, the Swift and
the Hunter are being turned out
in large quantities and the Spit-
fire and the Hurricane have
become museum-pieces. But
machines do not have the first
priority in troubled Europe. The
time factor has become tele-
scoped to such an extent that
warning-devices have prece-
dence and radar is king of the
air. Given warning, even a small
force can deal with sudden
attack —as the Battle of Britain
proved. But it is likely to be an
axiom of the new type of war
that he who strikes first wins.
One hydrogen-bomb on Lon-
don, Paris, Washington, New
York or Chicago and the war
will be on the way to being
over. Radar in the United
Kingdom defence - programme
has complete priority over
everything else new save atomic
weapons and guided-missiles.
In the Army priority goes to
the creation of a strategic re-
serve capable instantly of deal-
ing with emergencies. Lord
Alexander has outlined the
essential of this force —“to be
effective it must be able to move
at short notice and at great
speed.” This means that defi-
nitely from now on the Army,
while continuing to be the
Army, will have to take its feet
off the ground, and the G.S.
land - troop - carrier and the
flat feet of the infantry must give
way to the helicopter and
the high-speed, heavy, versatile
new aircraft of transport-
command—the standard in
Britain is to be the Beverley
freighter, built to carry 15 tons
of stores 600 miles in about two
hours, including either troops
or such cargo as a light tank, a
25-pounder or six jeeps.
All these changes involve only
adjustments, even if major ad-
justments. They involve no de-
partures from the basic prin-
ciples of war. The changes in
weapons are more striking;
these are the heart of the matter
and represent the field in which
fatal mistakes can be made most
easily.
Basically, the major novelties
are in weapons of the air. Atom-
bombs are being delivered to
the R.A.F. and will be handled
by medium bombers like the
Canberra. Air-to-air guided-
missiles are also in production
for immediate use and have
“reached an advanced stage of
development.” Ground - dis -
patched guided-missiles for air-
target use are not yet at the
same stage, but not far behind.
There was some controversy in
the early stages as to what force
they belonged to. It was decided
ultimately that they were the
province of the Air Force, since
they operated in the same ele-
ment as the fighter and the
bomber, and therefore must be
under the same ground-control.
For ground use —it will be a
great comfort to the P. 8.1. so
long as we have it and the other
fellow hasn’t a ground-to-
ground guided-missile with an
atomic war-head is being
evolved, and Lord Alexander
said during the debate on the
Estimates that he could foresee
the day when surface-to-air and
surface-to-surface guided-wea-
pons might supersede guns as
the main weapons of naval
ships.
All this places tactics in the
melting-pot, and they will not
congeal into their new-world
form until the potentialities of
the new weapons are fully
apparent from experience in the
use of them. As Britain’s De-
fence Minister remarked, “The
arrival of atomic weapons on
the battlefield —when it eventu-
ates —is certainly going to have
a great effect on tactics and
organisation in the future.” He
declared;
The Second World War was as
different from the First World War
as a boxing-match from a wrestling-
contest. There was reason to believe
that another major conflict would
prove to be of even greater difference
from the last, and that difference
would continue growing as the years
went by.
Meanwhile there is an interim
period to be faced during
which conventional weapons
and tactics must be retained at
maximum strength while the
changeover proceeds, so that the
United Kingdom may not be
temporarily naked and defence-
less. The new weapons and
methods will be phased into the
system as they develop, but there
must be a formula from now
onward to deal with rapid scien-
tific development and to con-
tinue the “phasing-in” as each
new factor becomes apparent.
Already, for instance, experi-
ment is being made in defence
against the large-scale use of
new gases and disease-germs
which have suddenly become a
potential menace to humans and
food-supplies just as great as the
atom-bomb.
A significant thing about it
all is that defence authorities in
Britain, hitherto politely chary
of naming an enemy, have sud-
denly become specific. Lord
Alexander spoke during the de-
bate quite openly of Russia as
the danger: “We could not
afford to allow the Russians to
obtain air-bases and launching-
sites on the Channel coast with-
in easy striking-distance of these
shores—Western Europe must
be held.”
American conceptions seem
to have gone further than this
and to be embodied in Nato.
Mr. Dulles said in January that
“local defences must be rein-
forced by the further deterrent
of massive retaliatory power” ;
and Mr. Nixon, the U.S. Vice-
President, expanded this state-
ment, declaring:
We have adopted a new principle.
Bather than let Communism nibble
us to death all over the world in
little wars we rely in the
future primarily on" our massive,
mobile retaliatory power.
The position has produced a
vast new financial problem, the
like of which has never before
been seen in peace-time. It can
be measured by the fact that in
1910-11 British expenditure on
the defence of a world-wide Em-
pire was £67,938,000 —and this
in the “Dreadnought era.” In
1953-54 the expenditure in the
United Kingdom, excluding
United States contribution, is
£1,636,762,000, And even with
that scale of outlay general the
defences of Western Europe are
not held fully capable of deal-
ing with an all-out Russian
attack.
In the various services the
changes are radical, as has been
said, mainly in the field of wea-
pons and adjustment of trans-
port and gun-platforms to carry
and operate them. All aircraft-
carriers in the 1955 programme
are to have full-angled decks
with steam catapults and the
most modern arrester-gear.
Destroyers are being converted
in bulk into swift anti-submarine
frigates. The programme of
minesweepers, inshore-sweepers,
fast-patrol and seaward-defence
boats is being carried through
at the rate of one boat of each
type completed per week. Heavy
construction of submarines,
from midgets upwards, with
various types of propulsion, in-
cluding an experiment with
nuclear propulsion, is under
way.
In marine aircraft the Sea
Fury and the Firefly have had
their day and are well on their
way out, to be replaced by Sea
Hawks, Sea Venoms and Gan-
nets, the first specialised anti-
submarine aircraft, which will
come into squadron service this
year and be followed by a
lighter carrier-operated version,
the Sea Mew. A swept-back-
wing jet-fighter for carriers is at
the prototype stage. It will be
equipped with guided air-to-air
missiles for combat and could
carry an atom-bomb if need be.
There is a new anti-sub.
mortar developed from the
Squid; there are radar-buoys
for detecting submerged sub-
marines and homing-devices for
wrecking them when dis-
covered ; an anti-sub. helicop-
ter —the Bristol 173—and novel
systems of mine-clearance.
Special emphasis is being laid
on the defence of convoys from
air attack.
The Army provided the
lengthiest and most striking part
of the Service Estimates de-
bate in the House of Commons
—a debate made notable by the
fact that, without notes or
figures, the Secretary of State
for War, Mr. Antony Head,
maintained skilful control of a
discussion which turned into a
22-hour all-nighter.
The essential of the official
view was that the atom-age
push-button war is not yet here,
and the great problem is to
maintain the forces which must
be kept abroad —in Germany,
Austria, Gibraltar, Trieste,
Kenya, Cyprus, Malaya, Korea,
Japan and many and various
other places —and yet maintain
the great strategic reserve so
essential to defence of the home-
land and civilisation. The
British Army comprises 183,000
Regulars with 214,000 National
Service men. A great propor-
tion of the Regulars are over-
seas, and absence from their
families is a deterrent to their
remaining on service. Mr. Head
said :
A most careful analysis showed
that the drift out was most marked
in the fifth year, when a man was 33
or more and had become well-aual* -
fled for a civilian job. At that stage
the man’s wife said, “Either get a
new wife or get a new job.”
To the Regulars and the N.S.
men are added 192,000 Terri-
torials (part-time National Ser-
vice), 60,000 volunteer Terri-
torials and 136,000 others giving
part-time service, plus the Home
Guard. It is a huge business
keeping it all up with inade-
quate barrack accommodation
and the temptations of civilian
life ever before the men, to
whom the future often appears
a dreary waste of boredom.
Mr. Head said that someone
in a speech recently had pictured
the Army as “a cross between a
dinosaur and a brontosaurus,
with the Secretary of State as an
unwilling jockey on its back
guiding it into the mists of
obsolescence and cheered on by
brainless blimps who might be
termed ‘Top Brass.’ ” And many
people argued that armies
should be cut down because the
future was in the air.
+ +
That might be so in the
future, he said, but at present
there was no visible prospect of
an atomic curtain behind which
they could protect Western
Europe by pressing buttons.
There was not enough fissible
material, he declared, even with
full use of the air. Men in
attack would infiltrate, and
where that happened there
would have to be modernly-
equipped men to meet them.
And the introduction of atomic
weapons for field use, while it
was on the way, was still far off.
It was not expected that in the
foreseeable future atomic mis-
siles could be made for the 25-
pounder or automatic weapons
and it would be a terribly waste-
ful way of using material, since
the effect of the fissible material
on the battlefield was “remote,
not in time but in the conduct of
the battlefield.”
Fissible material, he said,
might be used with effect against
a bridgehead, but could not
form part of a tactical battle.
However, the use of atomic
weapons would place a premium
on good communications, make
dispersion and elasticity of
movement more vital, and ren-
der vulnerable the huge fleets
of vehicles which must go for-
ward with advancing armies in
modern war.
And that also seems to be
true of huge concentrations of
manpower, which were the
salient feature of Russian tac-
tics during World War 11. The
weapons of the new age will be
likely to operate to the disad-
vantage of the U.S.S.R., whose
main weapon hitherto has been
human gunfodder applied in the
horde.
This, at least, is one cheerful
aspect of the New Kingdom of
Mars.


INS U RAN CE—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong .)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 line.) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
Reduce lamb & weaner losses!
Increase lambing percentage!
<
Wi&iW
SR5&&8Bi:
M
■
mmm.
r jfflm
ite. s*.m
mm&M
:•'• v
::'v
mm
v,',:
m.
A DRY-PASTURE PROBLEM OVERCOME:
Dry pastures need not necessarily mean heavy losses
because findings of C.5.1.R.0. research reveal that
vitamin A deficiency, which occurs under dry conditions,
is one of the main causes of losses and this deficiency
can now be corrected by drenching with High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’. \
‘VETEMUL’ is an emulsion developed in recent years
and used by leading Australian poultry and livestock
owners. It supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the
best green feed. Now a High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ is
introduced specially designed for use by sheep owners.
Because it is so highly concentrated, each dose supplies
total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. One
gallon of High-Potency‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient
for one dose each to 220 sheep (rams, ewes or weaners)
or 320 lambs—only I/3d. each for sheep and iOd. each
for iambs.
POTENCY
mm
TRADE MARK
•Oil ‘Aid SVI0H3IN dO J
High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ may be obtained from your Pastoral House
or usual station supplier.
Write for brochure explaining the full importance of vitamin A for rams,
ewes, lambs and weaners post free on request to : V9/53
r n/eh<y/aS Pty. JM.
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swanston St., Melbourne, Australia
What you should
know about strokes
They’re our Number 3 cause
of natural death —behind only
heart disease and cancer —yet
they receive less attention than
many maladies afflicting fewer
people.
April Reader’s Digest brings
you medical facts about strokes;
what causes them, warning
signs they give before they
strike, encouraging ways science
is treating victims —and how
you can lessen chances of hav-
ing one. Don’t miss reading
this important article.
Also in April Reader’s Digest,
“Those Germ Warfare Confes-
sions,” and a wealth of other
stimulating articles condensed
from world’s leading magazines
and books. 1/6 at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Make
sure of your copy today.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SPANISH BASES
Under its lately-concluded
agreement with Spain, America
is to get bases for 90 long-range
847 bombers capable of carrying
atomic bombs, plus their sup-
porting ground- and air-units.
Some minor naval facilities also
figure in the agreement.
“As payment,” comments
“U.S. News and World Report,”
“the U.S. has promised Franco
about 500 million dollars of aid,
more than twice what’s been
announced and five times the
original offer. Another 200
million dollars, at least, will be
spent for base-construction. The
net cost to the U.S. works out
at something more than seven
million dollars per bomber.
“For the U.S., Spain has be-
come primarily an Air Force
project. More than half the
U.S. military aid to Franco will
go into Spain’s air defences. The
U.S. will be putting into the
Spanish Air Force this year
almost twice as much money as
will the Spanish Government.
Army and Navy programmes will
be comparatively small.
“U.S. strategic air-bases in
Spain are seen as an addition to
similar but larger ‘intermediate’
bases already established in
French Morocco and Britain.
They are designed to lighten the
load placed on U.S.-based inter-
continental bombers.
“In Spain, as in Britain and
Morocco, U.S. bomber-bases
will have a black-door on the
Atlantic. They will be about
3000 miles from major targets in
Russia. 847 strategic bombers
will be able to reach those targets
in as little as six hours by refuel-
ling once or twice en route in
mid-air or at bases in Italy,
Greece, Tripoli, Cyprus or
Turkey,
“The American flag will not
be flown over U.S. air-bases in
Spain. Each base built by the
U.S. will be commanded by a
Spanish officer and jointly used
by the Spanish and U.S. Air
Forces.
“Nor will the U.S. be able to
‘base’ permanently in Spain. The
agreements permit the U.S. only
to ‘rotate’ squadrons into Spain
for 30-to-90-day training periods
in peace-time.
“War-time use of the bases by
American forces is not to be
automatic. The conditions under
which Spain declares war and
permits war-time use of the bases
are spelled-out in a secret
agreement.
“American airmen say they are
satisfied with the base-agreements
with Spain. They consider the
bases worth the price, despite the
limitations. The bases are con-
sidered safer from air attack than
those in Britain and more secure
against domestic unrest than
those in Morocco. They will
increase the flexibility of U.S.
strategic-bombing operations.
“The bases now are regarded
as long-range insurance rather
than something needed immedi-
ately. More than 120 U.S. and
Nato air-bases have been built
elsewhere in Europe. A major
complex of three strategic air-
bases has been constructed in
Morocco, and work is starting on
a fourth airfield there.”
A Madrid correspondent of the
same publication reports that
American plans in Spain have
been divided into two phases.
The first, costing 200 million
dollars, allows for four strategic
airfields, a naval-station near
Cadiz and port-facilities at
Cadiz and Cartagena. The
second phase, involving about
the same amount of money for
four more airfields and facilities
at four other Atlantic and
Mediterranean ports, may only
eventuate if the cold war heats
up again.
One reason for the “modest
dimensions” of the American
plans is that Spain itself is
unable to support a large,
modern defence establishment
without an almost - impossible
expenditure by America on new
railways, rolling-stock, roads,
docks, harbors and so forth.
As it is, the present plans
necessitate the importing of
material and machinery through
six or eight ports and road-and-
railway nets to avoid clogging the
already - congested facilities.
Spain itself cannot produce
enough cement for its own needs.
St. Louis “Globe-Democrat”
HALF THE WORLD IN CHAINS
and, as well as that commodity,
America will have to bring in
about 2000 items of machinery—
bulldozers, steam-shovels, heavy
graders, concrete - tamping
machines, cranes, electric-
generators, pumps and the like.
“The two main U.S. bomber-
bases in Spain will be built in
the south-west corner of the
country, near Seville, 600 miles
behind the Pyrenees and about
95 miles by rail from the Atlantic
port of Cadiz. One airfield will
be at El Copero, five miles south
of Seville; the other, at Moron
de la Frontera, 34 miles to the
south-east.
“A third air-base, for fighter-
escorts and interceptors, will be
built nine miles west of Sara-
gossa. The fourth, intended for
reconnaissance planes, will be
built on the central plateau, 15
miles east of Madrid. The
central plateau, at 2000 ft,, is
close to the top altitude at which
heavy jet-bombers can take-off
safely with full load.
“None of the airfields will be
of much use until it has been
reached by a jet-fuel pipeline
from Cadiz. One six-engine 847
bomber consumes about 1800
gallons of jet fuel in an hour’s
flight. It would take about five
million gallons a month to keep
the 90 planes in two 847 wings
flying in normal peace-time train-
ing. Additional aviation fuel
would be needed for tanker-
plane squadrons used for mid-
air refuelling.
“Since other U.S. supplies
already will be overloading the
railway net, it’s been decided to
build a jet-fuel pipeline despite
the expense.
“About 130 miles of pipeline
will be needed to service the air-
fields in the Seville area. About
470 miles of pipeline will be
needed to reach Madrid and 670
miles to reach Saragossa. Total
cost is expected to exceed 50
million dollars.
“All in all,” concludes the
“U.S. News and World Report,”
the U.S.-Spanish deal shows signs
of the hard bargain driven by
both sides. The U.S. pays much
more than it originally planned.
But Spain must devote the bulk
of U.S. aid to the airpower build-
up, American and Spanish, in
iwhich the U.S. is mainly
interested.
“The U.S. gets something less
than a fully-committed ally, and
its bases in Spain will be hedged
by many conditions. But the
U.S., in Spain, is to obtain a
useful addition to the flexibility
of its strategic air-arm.”
British Defence Costs
Most criticism of Britain’s
lately-announced defence plans
has been directed at the almost
astronomical costs. Typical
Press comment:
London “New Statesman”:
“Any Defence must be
examined from two conflicting
points of view. ‘Can we afford
so much,’ we must ask, ‘from
the point of view of national
solvency?’ ‘Dare we afford so
little?’ comes the reply from
the point of view of national
security,”
London “News Chronicle” :
“In the foreseeable future the
cost of British defence will re-
main about £l6OO million a
year, and it may be a struggle
to keep it as low as that. Any
savings in manpower that we
may achieve —say, by the end
of hostilities in Korea or by re-
ducing our commitments in the
Middle East or Germany—will
be swallowed up by the greedy
spawn of new machines.”
London “Daily Telegraph
“One of the main points of in-
terest is the extent to which the
development of atomic weapons
will, as in the United States, per-
mit a reduction in the total ex-
penditure on defence. The in-
crease of £27 million in the
Estimates for the Ministry of
Supply, bringing them to £l5l
million, shows that we are get-
ting the atomic weapons, but it
will clearly be a long time be-
fore these new weapons permit
a reduction in expenditure on
conventional defence.”
London “Economist '; “Is
the traditional conception of
well-balanced national forces as
the basis of independent foreign
policy and strategy still tenable
for Britain? It is clear that most
people who think at all about
these things want to maintain
it. The question is whether any
country, except perhaps the
United States and Soviet Russia,
can afford to maintain it.
“The Royal Air Force wants,
and has been promised, a stra-
tegic bomber-force, although
the United States has had one
of growing strength throughout
the tensions of the last five
years. Is the British force, then,
an extra deterrent that Nato
thinks necessary, or is it re-
garded as something that a
Great Power must have if it is
not to become a middling
Power?
“Likewise the Royal Navy
wants to maintain and improve
its aircraft-carriers, although the
United States has a plethora of
these ships. Is that an extra
precaution that everybody agrees
to be necessary, or is it the
Royal Navy’s way of keeping in
the foreground?
“Again, the Army is keeping
abroad more men than ever be-
fore at a time when it has more
allies strong in infantry than
ever before —admittedly not all
in the right places. Will that
always be necessary, or is there
some way of sharing the com-
mon burden?
“Brief observation on great
issues can never be more than
half true ; but the doubts of the
layman might be summed-up by
saying that the cost of being
secure from enemies is being
confused with the cost of being
independent of friends.
“The criticism is as true of
the Americans as it is of the
British. Costly research on new
weapons is being duplicated in
both countries because many
Congressmen do not trust an
ally; costly building of new
ships is being duplicated in both
countries because the British
want to protect Atlantic trade-
routes ; precious time and money
are being wasted because the
French do not trust their allies
to pull in harness with the Ger-
mans.
“It is, perhaps, time that the


More
NOW
PRICED
FROM
fds
• MORE POWER
All (kerosene-operated) models have
been increased a full 10% in brake and
drawbar h.p.!
• MORE FEATURES
New, modified front-end and steering
make it even more robust, extra strong.
Hydraulic lift and P.T.O. controls
now engage independently operate
separately or together!
• LOWER PRICE
Basic, kerosene-operated tractor with
electric lighting and starting, belt pulley,
drawbar, independent turning brakes,
hour meter, sponge seat, chaff screen and
canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5
(fronts), 55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs,
£799.
• OPTIONAL PNEUMATIC TYRE
EQUIPMENT
600 x 19 (front), 11 x 36 (rear), £BO
additional.
750 x 18 (front), 14 x-30 (rear), £lB6
additional.
600 lb. incorporated in each rear wheel,
£264 additional.
• OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT
108" axle, £l5; hydraulic lift and P.T.0.,
£99/18/-; overload release, £l9; hand
clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with
twin front wheels also available.
*
f° rce
NT.23.24
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
rnnwmuy iAUSTRAMA) tro > victoria park, joynton AVENUE, ZETLAND
staff officers turned on Ministers
and told them to create better
political conditions for cheaper
yet more efficient defence.
Otherwise the politicians will
turn on the staff officers and
tell them to save money by cut-
ting defence down. And that
policy, applied in haste, could
end in disaster.”
Turkey and Pakistan
Commenting on the Turkey-
Pakistan alliance, ' Toronto
“Globe and Mail” notes that
“Turkey is a member of Nato,
which means that every other
member, including Canada, is
bound to go to Turkey’s defence
if need be.
“Now that Turkey has
accepted an obligation to help
Pakistan militarily, it looks as
if Pakistan’s security has be-
come a Western interest.
“Another point is that the
Middle Eastern defence pact,
long sought by Britain and the
United States, was designed (on
paper) to include Egypt, Israel,
Irak, Iran, Jordan and other
lands clustered around the east-
ern end of the Mediterranean.
Will the Turkey-Pakistan pact
turn out to be the nucleus of
such a regional defence-
scheme?”
On which subject a London
“Observer” correspondent re-
ports that the Turkish and
American view of the Turkey-
Pakistan pact —and its possible
extension to eastern and southern
neighbors—is that it disposes of
all notions of Middle East de-
fence based on the Canal Zone:
America would like to make
Turkey the key to the defence of
the eastern Mediterranean and
the Middle East.
The same correspondent fur-
ther opines that “Faith in Tur-
key’s future seems fully justified.
In five years Marshall-aid has
transformed Turkey from a poor,
underdeveloped country into
the greatest boom-country in
Europe, a country with agricul-
tural and mineral resources
which have hardly been tapp'ed.”
Substantiating that comment,
New York “Herald Tribune”
adds that “the growing prosper-
ity of Turkey has been one of
the econorhic wonders of recent
times”:
“A few years ago it exported
not a pound of wheat; last year,
4.000. tons. In 1947 it had
scarcely 4000 tractors; now,
more than 35,000. The .prosper-
ity induced by mechanised agri-
culture has revolutionised the
Turkish way of life, bringing
the national income from
8.000. Turkish pounds to
12.000. in four years and
fostering an ambitious pro-
gramme of military defence and
civil industrialisation.
“To sustain this growing boom
Turkey has deemed it wise to
develop its oil resources with the
aid of foreign capital. At the
present time, when nationalisa-
tion is on many tongues and
other countries have the same
problems as Turkey to face, this
bold example of denationalisa-
tion merits the most serious
study.”
Britain and Europe
Britain’s traditional reluctance
to accept Continental involve-
ment has been getting a pretty
thorough going-over in sections
of the British Press —the argu-
ment in favor of involvement
being, of course, that, if E.D.C.
or anything like it is to eventuate,
John Bull will have to invest a
little more heavily on the Con-
tinent to placate French fears
of domination by a rearmed
Germany.
Reasoning to support that main
argument has been consistently
advanced by “Manchester
Guardian” and Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” the following com-
ments being typical of the cases
they present:
“There seems,” remarks “The
Scotsman,” “to be increasing
recognition that it is futile to
remain on the sidelines [of
E.D.C.], offering advice and
vague assurances of support.
“We hear a good deal from
Service Ministers about atomic
weapons and guided-missiles and
their effect on strategy. But our
attitude to Europe belongs to the
days when the English Channel
was a strong defensive moat,
and when a policy of splendid
isolation was possible. For
military purposes we might as
well be part of the Continent
now, and our frontier is on the
Rhine, as was said before the
appearance of destructive long-
range weapons.
“It has always been a cardinal
principle of our strategy that no
hostile Power should occupy the
Low Countries, and the import-
ance of that axiom has never
been more grimly obvious.
“Entry into E.D.C. could
hardly entangle us more deeply
in European affairs or increase
our obligations. ,We have to
think of the Commonwealth, it is
said. The integrity of Western
Europe is a matter of life and
death to Britain ; we are closer to
it than to the Dominions. Could
the Commonwealth save us if
Europe were quickly overrun?”
With which “Manchester
Guardian” substantially agrees:
“Our fate is inseparable now
from the fate of Western Europe.
In 1940 the Channel was still an
effective military obstacle —
although only just—whereas to-
day rockets and guided-missiles
can easily reach across it. Our
radar is ineffective unless it has
depth of operation on the Con-
tinent, and our power of
retaliation would be severely
reduced without a footing on the
Continent.
“These are the purely military
arguments, and to them must be
added the greater political fact
that British democracy could
hardly hope to survive if Euro-
pean democracy were extin-
guished.”
U.K. Defence Aircraft
Commenting on the British Air
Estimates for 1954-55, London
“Financial Times” remarks that
“by and large the picture of the
programme is that production of
the Canberra—the planned peak
of which was cut down last year
—has still some way to go before
this aircraft disappears from
among new deliveries.
“One R.A.F. squadron has
now been equipped with Swifts,
so that the production of these
aircraft should now begin to
rise fairly steeply.
“The Hunter fighter should
also begin to reach the R.A.F.
during the financial year 1954-55.
Meanwhile, according to the
estimates, the ‘first deliveries’ of
the Valiant medium-bomber will
take place.
“The first deliveries of the all-
purpose Javelin fighter, and of
the other two medium-bombers,
the Vulcan and the Victor, are
not expected at least till the
financial year 1955-56.
“While the current programme
is going forward, however, and
is virtually fixing the pattern of
production up to 1956 at least,
plans for the next few years are
being laid.
“Two future lines of develop-
ment are clear, the guided-missile
and the supersonic-fighter. It is
known that progress has been
made with guided-missiles and
that their first use will be in air-
to-air combat, to replace the
cannon. It is known, too, that
the first British supersonic air-
craft is to fly ‘within 12 months.’
“Before the significance of
these developments for the future
of the aircraft industry can be
assessed, however, two further
questions will have to be settled.
First of all, what will be the
relative importance ultimately of
the fighter-carried guided-missiles
and the ground-launched guided-
missiles?
“On the answer to that ques-
tion will depend the volume of
fighter-production.
“Secondly, what is the nature
of the new supersonic aircraft?
Is it an aircraft only adapted for
research? Or if it flies within
12 months will it then be possible
to order it for possible delivery
from 1956 onwards?
“On the answer to that ques-
tion will depend not only the
nature of the programme for
1957 and 1958, but whether and
at what rate this country can
catch-up with the lead already
built-up by the United States in
supersonic flight.”
Germany
While East and West disagree
over a divided Germany, and
while France and England, parti-
cularly, debate what Germany
should be allowed to do, or
otherwise, it is worth noting, as
a London “Recorder” editorial
points out, that “Germany is
acting”:
“Less than 10 years after it was
crushed and broken in fighting
most of the rest of the world it
has almost completed its indus-
trial recovery, rebuilt a great
part of its ports and its cities,
and is making preparations to
become a Great Power once
again.
“Now comes the news that
Germany’s scientists are begin-
ning work on atomic research.
A cyclotron, the machine which
is used to smash atoms, is already
installed in Heidelberg, and
Germany’s universities and
laboratories are being supplied
with the latest scientific instru-
ments by the Americans.
“Given these facilities and
permission to use them —which
apparently has been given—it
will not be long before
Germany’s scientific genius will
take it to the forefront of atomic
research and development.”
Atomic Activity
A reminder, by “U.S. News
and World Report,” that
“atomic secrets are not so secret
outside the U.S.”:
Russia. —Very active and has
large atomic industry, though
claims of leadership in use of
atomic energy for peace-time
purposes appear exaggerated.
Western Europe. A 12-
nation European pool is build-
ing the world’s biggest atom-
smasher near Geneva (Switzer-
land). This group has a three-
year start on pooling atomic
research for peaceful purposes.
Great Britain. —Has two re-
search reactors and two produc-
tion reactors. The British are
heating buildings with atomic
energy.
. Norway-Netherlands. These
countries together operate a
research reactor in Norway.
Each plans to build a separate
reactor.
France. —Has two small re-
search reactors and is building
two more.
Canada. Has two research
reactors, one of them the most
powerful in the world. A third,
now planned, is to be even more
powerful. Private industry is
being invited to participate in
building atomic plant for com-
mercial power.
Sweden. One research re-
actor being built; another
planned.
Belgium. —Building a research
reactor. '
Others. —Australia, West Ger-
many, Italy, Switzerland, Brazil,
India and Japan are all talking
of building research reactors.
Dragnet Digest
The Church and Com-
munism. The only two
organised movements in Italy
which survived Fascism were, as
assessed by “New York Times”
correspondent C. L. Sulzberger,
the Catholic Church and Com-
munism. And today “Catholicism
is the greatest co-ordinated force
opposing Communist tyranny in
Poland, Czechoslovakia and
Hungary, to a lesser degree in the
Baltic States, Rumania and
Albania. No matter which
priests seem by their surface
behavior to accept the domina-
tion of Moscow, the Kremlin can
never for a moment be sure ol
the subservience of their minds,
hearts or teachings,”
E.D.C. and Germany. —In the
view of London “Economist,”
“It is no exaggeration to say that
if E.D.C. collapses German
moderate opinion will turn
against rearmament, and the
whole European policy of Dr.
Adenauer will be discredited,
perhaps beyond repair. German
nationalists will be able to return
to the theme of Hitler: that
French obstinacy and Russian
mischief-making leave Germany
no choice but to follow its own
course with all the strength it
can muster.”
Persian Oil. —Commenting on
the advantages of international
control of Persian oil, London
“Daily Telegraph” opines that
“the reviving Persian oil output
may have to be fitted into a
world market already fully
supplied, and it is preferable that
this problem should be tackled
co-operatively rather than by
rivalry. Moreover, American
participation, though not com-
mercially very important for the
individual companies concerned,
has a political significance.
United States Government aid
is already helping Persia through
its present crisis, and a per-
manent American interest in
marketing Persian oil should
consolidate the association.”
U.S. “Slump.” —lt is, accord-
ing to former U.S. Presi-
dent Herbert Hoover, “only a
passing dip, a slump, a readjust-
ment, or a recesssion, not a
great depression.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Arbitration
Many organisations now approach
the Federal Arbitration Court with
preconceived ideas about the virtue
of their own cases. The “margins
case” illustrated the point. No
sooner had the court decided to adjourn
the hearing until November than there
was sniping at the arbitration system
from every comer of Australia.
Maybe the unions, seeking a greater
margin for skilled workers in industry,
had a very sound case to plead; but it
is the function of the court to decide upon
the merits of arguments, and this the
court can only do by appraising them in
relation to all the information at its
command.
Without doubt the whole spirit of
arbitration is being pathetically debili-
tated by parties to it being one-eyed in
their approach to the court. This, if
maintained, is clearly calculated to bring
the arbitration system into contempt and,
eventually, to destruction.
Australians should realise the singular
advantages of an independent arbitration
system and the enormity of the conse-
quences of the possible abolition of the
court.
Every Australian legislator and every
advocate who appears before the court
could give a lead in revivifying the arbi-
tration system by grasping the principles
upon which it was founded. These prin-
ciples were splendidly propounded in the
debates on the Conciliation and Arbi-
tration Act when it was introduced into
the Federal Parliament in 1904.
A study of the speeches of the time
shows that the Arbitration Court was
established for far more fundamental
purposes than a great number of present
union and employer representatives would
possibly suspect. Two speeches in par-
ticular deserve close scrutiny—the one
delivered by Alfred Deakin in the Repre-
sentatives on March 22, 1904, and Sir
Josiah Symon’s speech in the Senate on
October 19, 1904.
In part Deakin said:
What is sought to be done is to create
a tribunal which, having the confidence of
the public, and possessing all the knowledge
that can be obtained in relation to any
matter that may be brought before it,
shall have authority to pronounce judgment
between the disputants. It is not to pro-
nounce judgment, be it observed, according
to the bidding of the statute which creates
it. On the contrary, the court is to be
launched upon its work with a larger and
more general character than that of any
other court in the world. This may multiply
some of the difficulties of its tasks, but it
will remove immensely more.
The court, when it comes to consider any
propositions submitted to it, by way of
complaint, either on the part of employer
or employee, will look to no section of an
Act which bids it fix such and such hours,
wages, or conditions. What it will do will
be to take evidence of the general conditions
already obtaining in the trade in question;
It will build upon facts as it finds them;
it will take the experience which has wrought
out the customs and conditions of employ-
ment. It will take those as existing, and
endeavor to shape them in accordance with
its own conceptions of equity and good
“ Don't worry, fellers — we'll hit Alice in a fortnight."
conscience based upon the examination of
the facts
Our object is to see that, where other
circumstances are equal, one and all shall
pay the same —and that a fair rate of—
wage for the same services; that competi-
tion, which is the life-blood of trade, shall
not drain the life-blood of men, may not
be purchased to that extreme, and that the
advantage of the employer on one side
shall not be gained over the employer on
the other, at the expense of the men,
women and children whom he employs....
By its own developed intelligence, its
conscience, its judgment and its humanity,
it can combine employers and employees
together with those who stand outside the
ranks of both, in consciously fulfilling the
duties arising out of modern industrial
evolution.
On the establishment of the Federal
Arbitration Court Sir Josiah Symon said,
inter alia:
I regard it as a part of that very modern,
salutary and humane legislative effort to
substitute in industrial disputes the arbitra-
ment of conciliation, the peaceful arbitra-
ment of an appropriate judicial tribunal,
for the violent and barbarous methods of
the strike and lockout. I say violent and
barbarous methods because they bring with
them all the attendant passion and some-
times bloodshed and worse even than that
—the untold misery and suffering to inno-
cent people, to women and children.
Strikes which, in their origin, may be
merely disputes as to rates of wages may
attain the magnitude of civil war. They
may involve a revolt against ordered society
and peaceful government.. . .These old
methods paralysed industry; they sometimes
exiled workmen from home and country,
and gave trade over to the foreigner;
involved untold loss on the community.
But beyond and above all these things which
I have summarised, and which we all
recognise, there were the sufferings of the
innocent.
Neither Deakin nor Symon, nor any of
their grand associates, would ever have
asserted that the arbitration system of
their creation should be looked upon as
an immutable institution, never in any
circumstances to be altered. But they
doubtless would have argued in their
incomparable manner that, if there were
to be changes, then let the changes be for
the good. Most of the alterations which
are proposed today to the Federal arbi-
tration system are canvassed by people
who find difficulty in combining two
constructive thoughts on anything, let
alone upon a system which, by its very
nature, is complex, and which could
easily be unbalanced.
The notion that the Arbitration Court
is but an institution designed to approve
claims in a hurried and crude way is a
gross and false one. Australians have
much to thank arbitration for, and they
should stand resolutely behind its prin-
ciples.—D. J. K. (Q.).
“Afro-Asians”
Some new names and combinations of
names are appearing in international
affairs, in addition to the Communist
favorite of “Austral-Asia,” witty the em-
phasis on the latter portion. Now the
Indonesian Prime Minister is reported to
be proposing an “Afro-Asian” conference
for later this year, to include representa-
tives “of all independent countries in this
region, with the exception of South
Africa.” Dr, Sastroamidjojo is said to
be taking this idea with him to the con-
ference of Asian Prime Ministers in
Colombo at the end of April, together
with a plan for a permanent secretariat
which could prepare for the “Afro-Asian”
talks, and later “execute the decisions to
be taken by the Asian Prime Ministers.”
Reasons for exclusion of South Africa
are obvious, but it is not quite so apparent
why Sastroamidjojo wants to gather
“Egypt, Syria, all the countries of the
Middle East and all Asian nations” (pre-
sumably including Red China and Rus-
sia) into such an ill-assorted bloc. It may
be that some disgruntled Indonesians,
well aware of their country’s potential
wealth but current bankruptcy, will be
favorably impressed by grandiose plans
for “economic co-operation in trade and
shipping,” and for establishment of buffer
stocks of staple products such as rubber
and coconut to stabilise prices ; but there
is more to the plan than that.
There is no secret in Djakarta that one
objective is “to break the monopoly of
the merchant navies of the West.” Yet
simultaneous announcements naively pro-
claim moves for attracting foreign capi-
tal —presumably from the West, although
Russia could be expected to be vastly
interested also. There could be sinister
implications in all this, but it would be
unwise to take it too seriously, although
a move for some combination of the
nations of the colored continents, with
their huge populations, largely-unde-
veloped resources and some community
of interest in religions and cultures, can-
not be disregarded.
In Australia we are only a few hun-
dred miles from the outskirts of “this
region,” and our future could be at stake
if and when there was any positive out-
come of the plan. In the meantime it
“And a ‘ hundred ’ limit on breaks!"
can be doubted if the responsible nations
in the proposed bloc, striving to improve
their economic status and develop their
resources by a combination of hard work
and International Bank and private capi-
tal, will be in the least impressed by such
a project from such a source. — Mugga
Way (A.C.T.).
Where Are the Fish?
According to B. 24/2/’54, “New
Zealand’s top-ranking zoologist, Professor
L. R. Richardson, the best authority on
fish in the country, can see no reason
why the annual haul shouldn’t be worth
£l4 million, instead of a paltry million-
and-a-half, without any risk of emptying
the sea. Currents from the Antarctic are
a rich source of marine life which will
always feed and fatten fish; all N.Z.
has to do is to catch them in any numbers
it wants.”
Where are the fishing-grounds? I know
a fair bit about fish, and my fishermen
friends and the Marine Department know
a lot more, but none of us knows any
place where fish are so abundant that
severe restrictions have not had to be
imposed to regulate catches.
Fish thrive in shallow water —e.g., the
North Sea—but in New Zealand terrific
depths occur within a short distance of
the shore. The doleful record of every
fishing-ground off the N.Z. coast is a
continued depletion of supply, —Ho
Fang (N.Z.).
The Koombana
Regarding the suggestion of “WJ.W.”
(B. 17/3/’54) that the sunken Koombana
may have been “caught in a current”
and carried south,
the waters of the
Southern Ocean are
in four layers like a
cake, each layer flow-
ing in a well-defined
current. On the
surface the current
flows mainly east-
ward and northward
under the influence
of the prevailing
winds. The second,
the Antarctic Inter-
mediate Current, is
extremely cold and
also flows northward.
The third, the Warm
Deep Current, flows
southward, while the
last, the Antarctic Bottom Current, even
colder than the second, flows north.
Leaving aside the fact that Koombana
sank close inshore in water shallow
enough for diving operations, there is the
problem of getting her to sink below
the dense, cold water of the Antarctic
Intermediate Current, which flows well
up the Westralian coast. Every submarine
captain who ever wrote a book has
featured the difficulty of forcing his ship
through a layer of cold water. Koom-
bana was a hulk, and could never have
reached the Warm Deep Current.
Supposing she did get through it, and
found the southward-flowing warm
stream? Then the opposite applies. She
would sink rapidly in the reduced density
and go north again with the Antarctic
Bottom Current. So that, provided she’s
not stuck fast in some underwater valley,
which is more likely, she’s probably well
and truly north of her sinking-position.
I believe that “W.J.W.’s” sea-captain
found the wreck; I also believe that in
the area’s unpredictable tidal conditions,
with their strong underwater disturbances,
she could also have been picked up and
dumped somewhere else quite easily.
Traces? There were traces found, soon
after her disappearance, 20 to 70 miles
away from Port Hedland. Naturally she
would rot, but would much more than
worm-eaten wood come to the surface,
and would any of that be recognisable
even if it were found?
As for the Macquarie Island wrecks, I
still think “W.J.W.” is up a tree. It is
historical fact that the sealing-gangs that
swarmed over the sub-Antarctic seas dur-
ing the last century left a lot of wrecks
behind. The Bounty Islands, the Antipo-
des Islands, Auckland Island, Macquarie
Island, Kerguelen, Heard, Bouvet, Crozet
and Tristan de Cunha all have their quota
of wrecked sealers. If the submarine-
current theory is right, there must have
been an incredible number of wrecks and
disappearances in the temperate seas dur-
ing those times.
If the wrecks are readily visible from
the islands (as of coqrse they are) only a
surface current could have put them
there, because an underwater current
tends to swing away from an obstruction
like traffic around a pointsman. The sur-
face current, and the first submarine
current, flow northward. —V. J. H. (W.A.).
Yarrangobilly
Anyone lucky enough to have visited
the valley of the Yarrangobilly about
50 miles south of Tumut will share “Pat s
enthusiasm for the place (B. 24/3/’54).
Its rugged beauty is something not easily
forgotten.
What a pity it has been so neglected by
the N.S.W. Tourist Bureau. For years
they have been promising to put in a
motor-road to replace the steep and nar-
row walking-track to the Thermal Pool,
a delightful spot where crystal-clear water
bubbles up from- subterranean depths at
the rate of some 35,000 gallons an hour
and at a temperature of 80 degrees all the
year round. As it is, a swim in the pool
is a joy denied to all but the young and
energetic.
Just under two miles north of the
Caves House the Yarrangobilly River has
cut its way through the limestone to
form a natural bridge, and above this
spot on the plateau is the strange rock
formation known as The Tombs, a grant
maze of monoliths cut in limestone. Botn
bridge and monoliths are most spectacu-
lar, but they are inaccessible to all but
the hardiest of bush-walkers.
The Castle Cave, probably the finest
at Yarrangobilly, was opened up years
ago, but is not visited by tourists because
it is unlit, although power-lines come to
within half a mile of the entrance.
With a little money wisely spent the
Yarrangobilly reserve of about six square
miles could be made a wonderful retrea
for those who seek a short respite irorn
the heat of summer or wish to enjoy tn
thrill of snow sports on the Yarrango-
billy plateau in winter. Yen (15.0.vv.;.


Missing Friends
THOMAS HENRY SMITH, also known
as HARRY SMITH, Butcher, deceased.
Information is sought concerning the
present whereabouts of the wife, relatives
or children of the abovenamed late of
reilding, N.Z., who formerly resided in
the Wairoa and Gisborne districts. Be-
lieved children may be in Australia.
Reply Public Trust Office, Peilding, New
Zealand.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: IBOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F, W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A- O, Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
Phone: BW BS6I. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States,
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
m
ip
m
m
m
■■■■■■
■
m
m
S»JS
■
ss
df
LOOK YOIJB BEST
AND DO YOUR BEST!
You know as well as I do that a man does his
best if he looks his best. There is a definite
connection between feeling well and doing well.
Ten years ago Stamina set out to produce a suit
ANY man would be happy and proud to wear.
To-day that dream has come true. A limited
number of very attractive two-piece double-breasted
De Luxe Stamina Suits, in rich designs of Navy
Blue, are available from Stamina Distributors. They
are Australia’s best value.
Every De Luxe Stamina Suit is guaranteed to be
pure wool Crusader Cloth, the cloth that is
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK.
ASK FOK ;
This is the opportunity that value-wise men have
been waiting for.
Stamina/Y
D*B huUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To sell set Everyman’s Encyclopedia
(1949), new condition; also Harms-
worth’s Encyclopedia. (Each 12 vols.).
—5754.
To buy, The Escape of Sir William
Heans, by W. G. Hay, and Australian
Essays, by Francis Adams. —5755.
To buy copy of Mineral Products of
N.S.W. (1882).—5756.
Information Sought
Some information about Aus-
tralian poet Will H. Ogilvie?
William Henry Ogilvie, though
considered rightfully as an “Aus-
tralian” poet, most' of his writings
being about Australia, is actually a
Scotsman (born at Kelso, Scotland,
on Aug. 21, 1869), and has lived
most of his life in Scotland. He
lived in Australia only from 1889 to
1901, when he returned to Scot-
land. While here he spent most of
his time in the outback, droving,
horsebreaking, etc. He has written
many popular rollicking ballads and
charming lyrics, many of which first
appeared in The Bulletin. He is
still an active versifier, though in his
85th year, and in commemoration of
the Queen’s visit to Australia wrote
“Welcome, Our Queen!” (published
in The Bulletin, 3/3/’54). In World
War I he wrote in “Punch” a verse-
tribute to the Anzac as “the bravest
thing God ever made.” His books,
mainly of verse, include Fair Girls
and Gray Horses (1899), Hearts of
Gold (1901), Rainbows and Witches
(1907), My Life in the Open (1908),
The Overlander and Other Verses
(1913) and The Australian and Other
Verses (1916). This small list, how-
ever, by no means exhausts his pro-
duction.
* ♦ ♦ *
(J) How to make French-polish ?
(2) Method of application ?
(1) Dissolve 6oz. shellac in one pint
methylated spirit and then thin or
thicken the solution by adding (very
little at a time) spirit or shellac. (Keep
well away from fire.) Orange or
reddish-brown shellac produces ordin-
ary brown polish; white or bleached
shellac gives what is known as “white”
French-polish. (2) Firstly sandpaper,
then a filler for French-polishing
(obtainable at hardware- or paint-
store) is rubbed in along the grain.
It must be allowed to dry (but not
for too long, or it will dry hard), and
is rubbed off with a cloth across the
grain. (The filler can be mixed with
a stain if desired, or the shellac can
be relied on to provide the stain.)
Then lightly sandpaper again, and the
first coat of polish is applied with
either a cottonwool or other absorbent
cloth placed inside a chamois-leather
cloth and the excess shellac wrung out.
Rub briskly along the grain. As many
coats as desired may be given. As
an alternative to the rubbing with the
cloths, a paintbrush can be used, but
it does not give the same finish.
* * * »
How to make yoghurt?
Dilute two cups of partly-skimmed
milk with two tablespoons hot water.
While still tepid add two dessert-
spoons very sour buttermilk. Put into
a wide jug, cover with a cloth and
stand in a warm place for 24 hours.
Stir well then and leave a further 24
hours. Beat the mixture thoroughly
and pour from jug to jug till it is
smooth and creamy, when it is ready
for use. Yoghurt is a cheeselike
sour-milk food popular in Caucasia.
It has no special virtues not obtainable
in plain, soured milk. It should pro-
perly be made from mares’ or asses’
milk, the milk of cows being really
too rich in cream.
* * * ♦
What are the latest available figures
for Commonwealth expenditure (for
each State) on (7) old-age and invalid
pensions, (2) child-endowment, (i)
maternity allowances, (4) unemploy-
ment and sickness benefits ?
The following figures are from the
1953 Commonwealth Year-book and
are for 1950-51—(1) N.S.W. (includ-
ing A.C.T.), £20,856,000; Vic.,
£11,958,000; Q., £7,185,000; S.A.,
£4,300,000; W.A., £3,438,000; Tas.,
£1,783,000. (Total, £49,520,000.) (2)
N.S.W., £16,872,000; Vic.,
£10,948,000; Q„ £6,974,000; S.A.,
£3,782,000; W.A., £3,270,000; Tas.,
£1,734,000. (Total, £43,585,000.) (3)
N.S.W., £1,149,000; Vic., £807,000;
Q., £468,000; S.A., £277,000; W.A.,
£239,000; Tas., £116,000. (Total,
£3,057,000.) (4) N.S.W., £372,000;
Vic., £304,000; Q., £128,000; S.A.,
£77,000; W.A., £121,000; Tas.,
£35,000. (Total, £1,037,000.)
* * * *
What was the occasion of the
recall of Sir Gerald Strickland, the
Governor of N.S.W., during the
First World War?
In 1916 the N.S.W. Premier was
W. A. Holman, the Labor leader,
whose Ministry was approaching the
end of its three-year term of office.
Late that year the Labor party was
split violently over the proposal for
conscription for overseas war-service,
which had been introduced by W. M.
Hughes, then Prime Minister. Fol-
lowing the defeat of the referendum,
a resolution of no-confidence in the
Holman Ministry was moved in the
N.S.W. Assembly by dissident ele-
ments in the Labor party (Holman
had advocated an affirmative vote in
the referendum). Sir Charles (then
Mr.) Wade, the leader of the Liberal
Opposition, rightly proposed an
amendment to the effect that “it
was not then desirable to determine
whether or not the Government
possessed the confidence of the
House, because in order to ensure
the successful prosecution of the
war, the best efforts of this State
should be devoted to assisting the
Commonwealth, and for that pur-
pose there should be formed a
National party with a programme
based on broad democratic lines.”
Holman and his followers conse-
quently joined forces with the Oppo-
sition, and Holman and Wade agreed
that a National party should be
formed, and the life of Parliament
extended. Though this was a sound
proposal in the national interest,
Sir Gerald Strickland refused to
agree to the extension, and dismissed
Holman. The Governor was en-
titled to do this, but he omitted to
provide himself with an alternative
set of advisers. Finding no one else
to undertake the Premiership, he
was forced to recall Holman, and
accept defeat. Before this Holman
had appealed to the Colonial Qffice,
“with the result that the Governor
was considered to have fallen into
error, and was recalled.” Nor was
he given any further overseas
appointments.
* * * $
How did the word “Dago” origin-
ate ?
British sailors originally applied
the name to Portuguese and all
peoples of the Mediterranean. It is
a rendering of the Spanish-Italian
Christian-name Diego, pronounced
roughly in Italian “Dee-ehgo.” Used
with contempt for the southern
Italian, the term is better forgotten.
Brief Answers
Fred J.; You could have refused
to accept delivery of the damaged
piano. If you did accept it you have
the right to claim damages for depre-
ciation in value... .E.H.8.: The
parties’ rights should be governed
by the contract; can’t say whether
the council was acting within its
rights without seeing the contract.
A.R.; Henry Lawson was born
at the Weddin Mountains gold-
diggings, near Grenfell (N.S.W.), on
June 17, 1868. He died in Sydney
on September 2, 1922.'.. .DJ.W.:
H. (Bert) Ironmonger, the Victorian
left-hand bowler, played in 14 Tests
—two in 1928 and four in 1932
against England, four against West
Indies in 1930 and four against
South Africa in 1931. L. O’B.
Fleetwood-Smith, another Victorian
left-hand bowler, played 10 Tests —
three in 1936 and four in 1938
against England and three against
South Africa in 1935. Ironmonger
was not picked in any Australian
touring team; Fleetwood-Smith went
to South Africa in 1935 and to
England in 1938.... J.K.: Depends
on the arrangement under which
your father bought the block, and
the only way to find out is to look
at the agreement (if in writing) and
the by-laws of the cemetery con-
cerned, which will define the powers
of the cemetery trustees. Such by-
laws, incidentally, vary from ceme-
tery to cemetery, and so it is not
possible to give here any specinc
advice D.D.: The Constitution
of Canada allows the Canadian
Government to exercise certain
limited powers of control over the
Governments of the provinces. Set
down in the Constitution are certain
matters on which the central Govern-
ment is not allowed to legislate, but
it is permitted to veto some provin-
cial bills and Acts. (This power has
been used from time to time;
actually, very sparingly, so in prac-
tice little has been done to contra-
dict the independence of the pro-
vincial Governments) N. 8.: (1)
Jack Crawford won the Wimbledon
title in 1933. He beat Ellsworth
Vines (U.S.A.) in the final. (2)
Australasia first won the Davis Cup
in 1907, at its third attempt. Nor-
man (later Sir Norman) Brookes
and Anthony Wilding were the Aus-
tralasian representatives; they
wrested the Cup from Britain (repre-
sented by A. W. Gore and Roper
Barrett), 3-2. Brookes won both his
singles and Wilding beat Barrett
D.L.H. (Pleystowe, Q.): On com-
pletion of your civil-engineering
course you might have some prospect
of obtaining an appointment with
either the United Nations Korean
Reconstruction Agency or the United
Nations Relief Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees. Suggest you write
direct to the headquarters of these
agencies, which are located respectively
in Pusan (Korea) and Beyreuth
(Lebanon) A.F.H.; The annuities
payable to her Majesty the Queen are
known as the Civil List, which is
granted by Parliament upon the
recommendation of a Select Commit-
tee. The annual provision made for
her Majesty under the Acts of 1937
and 1952 is; Her Majesty’s Privy
Purse, £60,000; salaries of household,
£185,000; expenses of household,
£121,800; Royal Bounty, alms and
special services, £13,200; supplemen-
tary provision, £95,000. (Total,
£475,000.)... .J.S.E.: In the season
1940-41 St. George won the Sydney
first-grade cricket premiership, the
club championship and the Poidevin-
Gray (junior) competition K.M.:
The “Sydney Morning Herald” made
its first appearance on April 18, 1831,
as a weekly. On Oct. 1, 1840, it be-
came a daily N.R.G.: J. S. Mill
had this to say on individuality—
“ Whatever crushes individuality is
despotism, by whatever name it may
be called, whether it professes to be
enforcing the will of God or the
instructions of men” A.H. :Josiah
Charles Stamp (first Baron Stamp of
Shortlands), the British economist,
was killed in an air-raid on April 16,
1941 (Lady Stamp died in the same
raid).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.E.H.: Your “Royal Welcome”
was just in time for a sad farewell
G.R.M.: Afraid “Better Late Than
Never” would be better never
J. : No; “I Meet God! ” is not
a good title for a short story
K. : Just cogs going round
L. : “I’ll wager what’s left of my
reputation” is no way for persons to
talk M.C.: Even if we wanted to
print sloppy stories, they would be
sloppy Australian stories; not sloppy
English stories K.M.: Not one of
ours R.E.: You villain, you!
C.E.: There should be an inheritance-
tax on will-stories 8.J.0.: The
trouble about most airy fantasies is
their after-dinner heaviness
C.F.C.: We’re not amused L.D.:
No harm in dishing-up literary left-
overs, but offer them to the Saturday
and Sunday supplements of daily
papers W.1.T.: Never mind, you
had a good time J.McV.: Nope.
S.E.L.: Didn’t work into any-
thing 1.5.: You just had to pile it
on by settling it in a boarding-house;
in a private home it would have
seemed fairer E. 8.: We see no
reason why we should not work it
off again on you: you are one of
those authors who use the short
story as a means of playing Father
Christmas D.R.S.; It might read
better in your novel... .1.N.: The
point doesn’t justify the uninspired
lead-up E.G.: We liked the
phrase “She was an unflinching
churchgoer” N.R.: Neither
J.A.V.: Nothing to it A.R.:
Twenty, and writing nonsense about
convicts! 8.E.P.: We are side-
stepping your “Encounter.”


JOOUd
SAI
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Vi
• N
£
bo
c
• P"4
o
G
fl)
Uh
■
'
Hi
' ;:
' -
m
jQ'-m _>
>% : &
%. •
MmH*
aS&g
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY "IYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Land-leveller
“Kiwi”: New Zealand farmers
are finding the land-leveller a
useful piece of machinery, says
I. R. Falconer, Field Instructor,
Department of Agriculture, Ash-
burton (N.Z.).
Until recently, unevenness of
farm terrain had resulted in
losses in germination and yield
even where modern seed-drills
and harvesting-machines were
used.
The land-leveller, designed as
an answer to this problem, is
simply-constructed, with a steel
frame ; completely automatic in
action.
The front of the machine, with
the clod-crusher, rides down on
the ground; the back, with the
rear smoother-blade (also down
to ground-level), does the final
smoothing and packing. Between
the rear ends of the double-
throw crank-axles in the middle
of the machine is a suspended
blade which automatically levels
the high spots and fills the low
ones. Wheels on the end of
each crank-axle activate the
blade.
When the wheels go up on a
high spot, the blade on the end
of the crank-axles goes down,
levels-off the high spot and car-
ries the soil along until the
wheels feel-out the low spot.
Then the wheels go down, and
thfr blade goes up, releasing
enough soil to fill the low spot
firmly.
Falconer maintains the land-
leveller produces the perfect
seed-bed. Soil is aerated, evenly
broken-up, but not pulverised.
Lightly but firmly packed, it
permits good root-development
and even distribution of mois-
ture.
High and low spots being
levelled, all areas dry-out in
minimum time after the heaviest
rain; work on them can be
started earlier in the spring than
on land bumpy with wet spots
and potholes. In drilling, even-
ness of soil allows the drill to be
adjusted to the most efficient
depth. In cultivating, the full
width of the cultivator is used
and old trouble of working over
depressions not first reached is
eliminated. In harvesting, equip-
ment is run at top speed, shortest
plants reached, and need for
hand-picking later (with some
crops) avoided.
Falconer cites the case of a far-
mer who border-diked an 18-
acre paddock with a land-leveller
used with a small two-furrow
tractor possessing a hydraulic-
ally-operated grader-blade. Pad-
dock was first levelled. The
leveller being drawn across it in
three directions, high and low
spots were brought down to one
grade. The small tractor was
used again for throwing-up the
borders and cutting the head-
ditch. This took 10 hours. Then,
with a 3-furrow tractor, the land-
leveller was drawn up and.down
the dikes to fill the furrows made
by the grader-blade and to level
further between the dikes. This
work completed (in 11 hours),
the paddock was then ready for
sowing to permanent pasture on
a perfectly worked seed-bed.
Tree-planting
“My”: Select a dull, windless
day and plant in a moist soil on
a well-drained site. Use only
strong, healthy specimens with a
good root-system, and don't
allow the soil to dry-out.
Stake firmly, tying with strips
of canvas or sacking in prefer-
ence to string, and protect the
tree from rabbits or stock with a
wire-netting guard. In dry
climates use a thick surface-
mulch of leaf-mould, straw, or
well-decayed stable-manure, and
keep the weeds down. In frosty
localities protect tender speci-
mens at night with a hessian
cover.
In the summer following plant-
ing keep the water up to the tree,
as a full year, at least, is required
for it to become established. The
flush of foliage in the first spring
after planting is often misleading.
At that stage the young tree has
barely commenced to build its
root-system.
Feeding the Calf
“M,”: Young calves need
three meals a day during their
first week or 10 days of life,
spaced evenly: say, 6 a.m., 12
noon and 6 p.m. Dilute the milk
sufficiently to bring it down to
a 3.5 p.c. butterfat level. The
weaker product is more easily
digested than whole-milk.
A. C. T. Hewitt, M.Agr.Sc,,
states that the protein in the
dilute-milk coagulates into a soft
curd in the calf’s stomach, and
this soft curd does not offer the
same resistance to the digestive
juices as the curd of rich whole-
milk.
As a guide to the dilution of
whole-milk, Hewitt recommends
the following scale: To 101 b. of
3 p.c. and 3.5 p.c. butterfat milk
add no water; to 4 p.c. milk,
water; to 4.5 p.c. milk,
31b. water; to 5 p.c. milk, 4|lb.;
to 5.5 p.c. milk, 61b.; to 6 p.c.
milk, 7-jlb. Use boiling water,
as this warms the milk; but see
that the temperature is approxi-
mately lOOdeg. F. (bloodheat)
before feeding.
Poison Treatment
“Hux”: If your dog takes a
strychnine bait, get his mouth
open quick and lively, chew a
mouthful of tobacco and spit it
down his throat. If necessary,
push the tobacco well down at
the back of the throat, forcing
him to swallow before releasing
the jaw. It’s really a two-man
job.
Tobacco is both a mechanical
and chemical antidote. If none
is handy throw a tablespoon of
coarse-salt on back of tongue and
wash it down with vinegar. A
tablespoon of bicarbonate-of-
soda dissolved in a pint of warm
water sometimes works.
Avoid choking by giving small
doses in fairly quick succession.
Let up immediately he shows an
inclination to vomit.
Don’t feed for 12 hours and
don’t work the patient for at least
a day.
Lameness in Cows
“Cow" Cocky”: When a cow
goes lame suddenly the cause is
probably injury; harrying by
other cows, dogs or men who
should know better, or running
on rough ground, or slipping in
muddy yards.
Contusion of some part of the
leg, even the haunch-bone or
hip-joint, can also be the trouble.
Arthritis of the stifle-joint about
the flank-fold is not uncommon.
If this joint is swollen or painful,
cause may be insufficient
minerals ; common enough when
a cow is a high producer. Next
in probability is infection. Lame-
ness developing slowly may be
an indication of chronic
arthritis or mineral lack; the
latter can be corrected by use of
bonemeal and salt-lick.
When lameness is severe and
the cow is unable to bear any
weight, look for broken bones.
The leg can be moved about
freely and dangles when the
fracture is below the stifle;
breaks in thigh-bones and hip-
joints rarely show.
Injury to the foot is a common
cause. Swelling of the fetlock-
joint is usually brought on by
sprain.
In cases of extreme lameness
don’t force the cow to travel.
Carry food and water to her, or
put her in some small paddock
where she can get them easily.
There should be one or two of
these convalescence paddocks on
the place, anyway.
Illustrated Hint
This milk-loading platform (as
illustrated from the “Victorian
Agricultural Journal”; report
by dairy-supervisor I. A. Frost)
has saved a lot of unproductive
yakka, lifting full cans, on R.
Grosvenor’s farm at Kyvalley.
One end of the platform is
fixed to a horizontal swivel-pin,
and remains at a height of 3ft.
The other end can be raised to
make the platform level, or
lowered to the ground by a rope
which passes over a pulley to a
winch made from old chaffcutter
gears. When it is level the plat-
form has additional support from
folding legs at its mid-point.
When it is lowered these are
folded by pulling a release-pole
(as illustrated).
Full cans are placed, through
the loading-door, on to the lower
end of the platform and rolled
up the slope to the higher end.
When all cans have been placed
on the platform it is raised to the
horizontal position and the fold-
ing legs are lowered to take some
of the weight.
The carrier takes the full cans
from this platform and places
the empty cans at its moving end
opposite the loading-door.
Mistletoe
“K. M. Hardy”: It has been
known for some time that mistle-
toe on our eucalypts could be
killed by direct spraying with
hormone weedicides.
Last year, however, C.5.1.R.0.
announced that a much simpler
method was to inject 2,4-D into
the trunks of the trees and have
it carried up to the mistletoe by
the rising sap, although one or
two years might be required for
complete killing by this means.
Now the N.S.W. Forestry
Commission states that an-
nouncement of the success of
this method is rather premature.
Chief difficulty is determining
a concentration of the chemical
that will kill the mistletoe and
not the tree as well.
Watch Your Hives
Look out for damp-
ness when selecting site for a
hive. Too much shade can be
bad. On the other hand, you
want shelter from severe winds.
Try to strike a balance.
See there is a free movement
of air around hives. And look
at the hive.
Make sure the roof doesn’t
leak. See that roofing-material
is sound and fits snugly. Flat
roofs of the telescopic type,
covered with 26-gauge galvan-
ised flat iron, are satisfactory
provided the iron is large
enough to cover all the wood on
the margin-strip right to the
bottom edge.
Don’t cut corners ; fold them.
Drive galvanised clouts through
the iron on the face of the
margin-strips near the bottom
edges. Make all supers to an
exact pattern without cracks
and draughty holes. Construct
floor-boards on a firm founda-
tion and adjust so that the front
is half-an-inch lower than the
back.
Fodder-beet
“C.A.A.”: Fodder-beet is new
to Australia and New Zealand,
but in Europe it is proved stock-
feed. Pigs, in particular, eat it
with relish. Combining the high
food-value of sugar-beet with
the high tonnage-per-acre of
mangolds, and, like mangolds,
growing well out of the ground
(which makes for ease of har-
vesting), it is, all round, a use-
ful crop.
Despite height above-ground,
fodder-beet is deep-rooted: so
plough deeply. On fertile soils
good crops -can be grown by
ploughing-out of grass in Sep-
tember and sowing * about the
middle of October. Under more
difficult conditions it may be
necessary to skim-plough in
early winter, and deep-plough in
August, to get a good tilth.
If the paddock hasn’t been
limed regularly, scwt. to lOcwt.
of lime to the acre helps. Ofl
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The recent sunspot group has acted in an unusual way:
although it was quite normal in accelerating the heatwave
in Queensland, it was unusual in doing this to the delay of
the cyclical rains now overdue; and these should now be in
evidence. Then should follow a drop in temperature, with
frost in the colder districts, followed by rain over a great
part of central and eastern Australia late in April or early
in May (latter seems more likely). After that, the dry,
cold winter which I have been predicting for some time.
This should affect most of the area except the southern
littoral (where rains will be below normal but not
drastically so).
All this could be modified if the new sunspot epoch
were to set in, or if some isolated relief-falls on some sub-
cycles were to come into the picture. But I do not think
these things are very likely.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage a of sewerage ne
natter where your home may be,
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
dsf
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can inatal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
" 'DISTRIBUTORS: ——
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney-
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 OoHins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Taa.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers. Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Ojy £
osuiuvan
i mtnx a .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
letterpress and offset printers
lithographic printers
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
TRACTOR
NEW 8 H.P.
Complete with attachments, Scarifier,
S.E. Plow, Weeders, Kldgers,
Skifllers.
/ Lot £lBO
J. W. STYLES & SON,
889 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU9356
ds
SIMPLEX
Centrifugal
GOVERNORS
For the accu-
rate speed con-
trol of internal
combustion
engines.
Flyweight type, precision built.
Can be mounted either vertical
or horizontal position. Can
be supplied with Vee belt
pulleys and belts to your
specification.
Price £B/10/-, plus Sales Tax
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road,
Newtown, Sydney. LA 3597.
r//
does a MAN’S job
about the place
The "FARMERS'BOY
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc,
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
ROTARY SCYTHE
The circular disc with 3 cutter blades attached
a high speed guillotines paspalum and
DANK WEED "GROWTH and will cut the grass as
short as you wish.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and/or demonstration:
G no*vSL. Co OPERATIVE ’ LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W42C1.
Vi t MUBSS? RAZCOS 00 ‘ OPEBATIVE * I TD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND). LTD., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Oastlereagh St., SYDNEY.
w
DON'T MISS!!
"WALTHAM DAN'S"
EASTER SHOW AT
SOI
sssr
%
S
'1
96 OXFORD STREET, CITY
YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO PAY A VISED TO OUR
STORE WHILST IN SYDNEY FOR THE SHOW. WE HAVE THE
LARGEST RANGE OF EX-GOVERNMENT EQUIPMENT IN
AUSTRALIA.
DON’T FORGET TO INSPECT THE MANY INTERESTING
ITEMS WHICH ARE READILY ADAPTABLE TO INDUSTRIAL
AND DOMESTIC USE.
mi
QSssftS®
HOME LIGHTING
EQUIPMENT
AIRCRAFT GENERATORS are
compact, powerful and reliable and
readily adaptable to farm machinery
for use as battery chargers and also
electric welding.
24v. 1500 w. for battery charging £9 17 6
24v. IOOOw. for battery charging £8 15 0
30v, 200 amp., Type P.l, suitable for battery
charging and welding £5O 0 0
There are many other models available. Also various additional equipment.
Illustrated catalogues and circuit diagrams will be supplied free of charge
on application.
TARPAULINS. New condition. Waterproof and rotproof.
.Complete with eyelets and ropes. Size 20ft. by lift. 6in.
Price, £l5.
AIRCRAFT WING FUEL TANKS. Rubber-covered
aluminium. Complete with snap-on filler cap and several
outlet pipes. 26in. x 17in. x 9in. Capacity 24 gallons. £6.
VW R.A.A.P. ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. Build your
own Dumpy Level. The “Astro Compass’’ can, with slight
'frT modification, be made into an accurate dumpy level. Addi-
tional requirements, a light tripod and telescopic sight.
The instrument has declination scale with micrometer adjustment,
azimuth circle, cross levels, adjustable turntable. Fully calibrated.
A precision instrument. £2/19/6. (Packing and postage: 6/-.)
Our Prismatic Telescopic Sight can be adapted for use as a
sighting tube with the Astro Compass.
PRISMATIC TELESCOPIC SIGHTS. Can be converted as
V’i rifle sight, surveyor’s sighting telescope and many other
?r<r* uses where first-class lenses are required. Length, sin.
Eye-piece lens, lin. Front lens, iin. Bye relief, 3in.
Weight, 15oz. £3/10/-. (Packing and reg. postage: 5/-.)
Tank Whip Aerials for Fishing: Rods
Tapered tubular spring steel rods in 4ft.
sections, which can be cut to make any length
of rod required. Three separate sections
available, which will fit neatly into each other
and can also be used as a car or truck radio
aerial.
Three sections, 22/6 (12ft.). Two sections,
15/- (Bft.). Additional sections, 7/6 (4ft.).
Packing and freight: 5/-.
fd
• %:
AIRCRAFT CLOCKS. Made by Waltham of U.S.A.
Accurate precision-built. Ideal for launches or cars.
Bight-day. Twenty-four-hour dial, with sweep second
hand. Brand new. £lO. (Beg. postage and packing: 5/-.)
ELECTRIC MOTORS. Made by Oster. Twenty-four volt,
1/25 H.P., 3 amps. Series wound. Five thousand six hun-
dred r.p.m. Brand new. £3/10/0. (Postage & packing: 6/-.)
VACUUM PUMPS. (Made by Pesco.) Will build up pres-
sure to 28in. approx, at 1000 r.p.m. Will pump gallons
per minute. Ideal for hydraulic systems and many other
uses. £3/10/- (Postage and packing: 6/-.)
WE HAVE JUST RECEIVED A HUGE CONSIGNMENT OF
RADIO AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT TOO NUMEROUS
TO LIST. CALL AT YOUR EARLIEST AND INSPECT
THESE BARGAINS.
WALTHAM TRADING CO.
96 OXFORD STREET. SYDNEY
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
OS
CM
;ioo«
STIR'
»*•*«
btt W-** W *
y DhjL''sct£ m (M*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO. See 1583,
SYDNEY • S.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. 588, PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
good soils scwt. to 6cwt. of
super, to the acre should be
enough. On less fertile soils a
mixture of 3cwt. of super, 3cwt.
blood-and-bone, and lewt. of
sulphate of ammonia is a good
idea. Seeding should be at the
rate of 41b. to 61b. to the acre.
As soon as plants are up hand-
weed the rows and thin plants
to a spacing of Sin. to 12in.
Scarify between the rows to
control weeds.
Transplanting into a smaller
area can be done in December,
and if the soil is well-cultivated,
no later cultivation is necessary.
The plants can be pressed
into the fall of a newly-turned
furrow (Sin. to 12in. apart),
then covering them with the
next furrow-slice.
Fodder-beet can be fed to
pigs of all ages. No need to
ripen-off, as with mangolds.
Best way is to throw the beet
into a clean grass-paddock. Can
be fed to housed animals, too.
In Brief
“C.A.A.”: A Natimuk (Vic.)
farmer, L. H, Lange, claims an
Australian record for an average
yield of 76.8 bushels per acre off
52.4 acres of Pinnacle wheat,
which won the Southern Wim-
mera wheat championship. Land
had a long history of a regular
cropping on a fallow-wheat rota-
tion with only one spell under
pasture in 10 years,
* * *
“North Queensland Register”
reports that 2500 head of cattle
will be brought to Cairns by sea
in April, May and June. Trip
takes about six weeks, overland,
from Port Stewart —30 to 36
hours by sea.
* * *
Twenty-one Landrace pigs
were flown from Sweden to the
Isle of Man recently.
* * *
British Ministry of Food price
for copra for 1954 is £7O stg. a
ton —up £5.
* * *
Inquiries about use of 1080 as
a rabbit-poison has brought a
statement from the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture that un-
restricted sale of the stuff in that
State is “unlikely”; 1080 (sodium
fluoacetate) is one of the dead-
liest poisons known. In the
U.S.A., where it was evolved,
only trained officials are allowed
to use it; penalty for unauthor-
ised use 500-dollars fine, or a
year’s imprisonment. There is no
known antidote to the poison.
* * *
Commonwealth Government
will pay breeders freight-subsi-
dies on all bulls valued above
£5O sent for auction at the Alice
Springs sales in April.
* * •
Beet-leafhopper causes about
$5,000,000 damage a year in the
U.S.A., attacking not only table-
and sugar-beet but beans, toma-
toes and cantaloupe. Cost of
chemical-control is high. Latest
idea is to use a natural enemy —
bred at the University of Cali-
fornia —the tiny Mediterranean
wasp. Experiment going well so
far, although there is some doubt
whether the wasps will acclima-
tise themselves in some of the
more arid parts.
♦ * *
An old dodge of home-garden
goldfish-fanciers—emptying the
water on the garden —is being
adapted on a more ambitious
scale in Java, according to an
American report. Fish are being
bred in rice-paddies during the
flooded stage ; icthyo-fertiliser, it
is claimed, has increased yields
by 10 to 20 p.c.; and, of course,
they can always eat the fish.
If the above is of mainly
academic interest (except, pos-
sibly, for M.I.A. rice-farmers
with a taste for angling), the old
European custom of breeding
edible fish in the farm pond is
something that has pleasant
possibilities. A year or so back
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture looked into the idea for
dams, etc., in suitable districts.
* * »
Writing in “Wesfarmers
News,” F. C. Stone rates the
throwing-open by the Lands De-
partment of sizeable areas on
the Midland Line and the dis-
covery of oil as the two import-
ant events in W.A. last year.
On the pros and cons of
wheat-inflation (on which possi-
bility, and what to do about it,
Menzies and Teasdale are, if not
the most vocal, the most promin-
ent representatives of different
opinions), Stone makes the inter-
esting point that in W.A., any-
way, apart from possibilities of
trade with the East, sowing is
worth while; if not of wheat,
then of oats and barley. For a
variety of reasons—light soils;
soil-stealing winds; value of
stubble-feeding and self-sown
crops—grain, he says, is likely to
become more and more import-
ant in stock-management.
• * *
Danish butter exporters are
spending £130,000 (stg.) on a
butter-marketing campaign in
U.K. (“Times” report); Aus-
tralian and New Zealand pro-
ducers are co-operating in the
campaign—to what financial ex-
tent isn’t stated.
* * *
1.C.1. reports success of its
non-poisonous spray (containing
the sulphonate compound “Elim-
ite”) for control of red-mite,
European red-mite and red-
spider.
* * *
“Vit A.”: It’s taken a long
time for manufacturers of
breakfast-foods to catch up with
stockmen. More than 30 years
ago the higher nutritive value of
yellow maize (compared with
white varieties), on account of
its carotene (Vitamen A) con-
tent, was recognised by pig-
feeders in U.S.A,
* * *
Something new in the Tumba-
rumba (N.S.W.) district —irriga-
tion. Potatoes were successfully
treated there, and at Tumut,
early in the year.
* * •
W. F. Sheahan (N.S.W. Attor-
ney-General) says Tom Roche
owned the Adelong bullock
mentioned here last week.
* * *
Although the number of heavy
horses in the U.K. continues to
decline, attendance at the Shire
Horse Society’s Show at Derby
was above average (“Times”
report). What’s Wanted (ex-
hibited by G. Richardson, of
Moreton-in-Marsh, Gloucester-
shire), last year’s champion, won
the King George VI Cup for
the champion stallion.
* * *
Odd sidelight to the above:
following allegations that pedi-
grees had been falsified, a leading
breeder-exhibitor has been sus-
pended, two others severely
cautioned.
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin’s” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
now—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


ENJOY
»
B
m
n
* *
oo
Australia’s singing favourites, Neil Williams and Lily
Connors, plus Gus Merzi’s trio and compere Leon
Becker, present six songs you asked to hear in radio’s
gayest new musical show.
MACOUARIE I —^
2GB SAW 4BH SDN
BIX 7HO 7LA
Lodge is one of the notable
buildings in the city, and, since
the gates were usually open,
many people seemed to think
they ought to “nip in and have a
look round.”
What would the average
citizen say if he found the Prime
Minister wandering round his
back garden, or trying to peer
through his windows, with the
excuse that “he was just having
a look”? One driver of a
holiday-tour coach even brought
his vehicle up the main Lodge
drive to the front-door and
pointed out the sights while Mrs.
Menzies was entertaining guests.
The posting of peace-officers
at the gates was, therefore,
bound to come sooner or later.
Of course, the Prime Minister’s
desire to have as normal a
private life as possible is in many
ways an impossible one. To a
substantial extent a man who
accepts the Prime Ministership
must be prepared to abandon on
his own and his family’s behalf
the normal concept of, a “private
life.” His way of living at work
and at home becomes, in a
democratic community, the
legitimate concern and interest
of John Citizen. Only personal
taste can then dictate the extent
to which pressmen and ordinary
members of the public seek to
pry into his affairs.
This constant exposure to
publicity is part of the cross
which anyone in high office must
bear in order to give the sort of
public service in which he or she
believes.
Menzies, understandably, per-
haps, has never accepted this
view, and it is one of the reasons
for the indifferent relations
which he has always had with
the Press.
The Ideal of Family
TT is impossible to work for
R. G. Menzies without
realising the influence in his life
of his wife and family and of
the ideal of family itself.
Menzies’s parents* and grand-
parents, of Scottish extraction
on the male side and Cornish on
the female, were virile, self-
respecting, but far from
prosperous.
The Prime Minister’s paternal
grandfather was an iron-
merchant who eventually died
“without a feather to fly with,”
as Menzies puts it. His father,
James Menzies, was a coach-
painter at Ballarat, and later a
storekeeper in the tiny Vic-
torian country town of Jeparit,
before becoming a member of
the Victorian Parliament.
J ames Menzies, expressing
pride in the success of all bis
five children, once said: “They
were brought up to remember
always that when a thing wanted
doing you should do it with all
your might; and they have never
leaned on their parents.”
Old Mrs. Menzies said of
Robert Gordon; “He doesn’t
know a crooked way. He never
did. J suppose that’s the trouble
—he’s a bit too straight for them.
But you can’t be too straight,
can you?” She probably went
right to the heart of her son’s
political strife in his first Prime
Ministership; “I suppose that’s
the trouble —he’s a bit too
straight for them.”
In those days, it is said,
Menzies had not learned the
refinements of leadership and
acquired the understanding of
human relations which he
possesses today. To be “straight”
was instinct to him. The
wounded vanities of other men
must, in those days, have cost
him as dear as any of the vanities
imputed by the envious to his
own character.
But Menzies had two great
qualities. He thrived on opposi-
tion ; and, even after he had
been one of the youngest Prime
Ministers in the history of his
country, he was not too proud
to learn from mistakes.
He learned the hard way.
Lessons learned like that are
remembered best. And his eight
years in “the political wilder-
ness” before he again became
Prime Minister in 1949 are
acknowledged by friends and
opponents alike as years of
exemplary courage and tenacity.
He has throughout his life
always refused to acknowledge
any defeat as permanent. As
he himself puts it, “My best runs
have always had to be made
from behind.”
Again and again he has been
“written-off” in advance of some
crucial political test —as in 1941,
when he lost the Prime Minister-
ship to Sir Arthur [then Mr.]
Fadden, and there were predic-
tions that he was “finished”, in
public life.
Again, in April, 1951, he was
well “behind” politically—with a
majority in the House of Repre-
sentatives, but with a hostile
Senate, and a Press and Opposi-
tion which had begun to brand
him as the leader of a “do-
nothing” Government.
Then, with half his Cabinet
colleagues full of private mis-
giving about the risk he was
taking, he shook off the hostile
Senate majority by obtaining the
second double-dissolution of
Parliament since Federation, and
carrying his team to victory in
the subsequent election.
It was the same last year.
After a dozen resounding by-
election and State - election
defeats the Liberal and Country
parties regarded their cause at
the Senate election on May 9 as
virtually hopeless. Labor’s
crushing victories all over the
country in the preceding 18
months certainly suggested that
all was over bar the formal
recording of the votes.
Yet, supported and encouraged
by his wife, who herself made
goodwill visits to several States
and delivered many speeches to
women, the Prime Minister flung
himself into a furious campaign
of broadcasts and meetings
which, according to the Aus-
tralian Gallup Poll, helped to
swing more than three per cent,
of the electorate back to his
support by the day of the elec-
tion. It was enough to give him
the vital majority he needed in
Queensland. With that, he
retained command of the Senate
until the normal poll in 1956.
Each of the episodes just de-
scribed has been a major crisis
in Menzies’s life. Each of them,
if the sequel had been different,
could have been his second and
final political failure. In each
of them the decision to act had
to be his own ; had he decided
wrongly he, and not his Cabinet,
would have taken the heaviest
consequences.
Yet, in the seeming loneliness
of that hour of decision, he was
not alone. At his side was a
staunch wife, and in the back-
ground his children, his brothers
and his sister.
In all times of testing down
the years since he was married,
however, it has primarily been
Mrs. Menzies who has sustained
him and stood beside him.
Indeed, the Menzies marriage is
a classic example of the truth
that great men of history have
usually been backed by women
of personality, character, beauty
or ambition.
In the New Year honors’ list
Mrs. Menzies was created a
Dame of the British Empire for
her public services. But in this
article I propose to refer to her
still as Mrs. Menzies, because
that is the simple style which I
know she prefers.
As a young woman Mrs.
Menzies must have been excep-
tionally attractive; indeed, she
still is. Slight in build, grey-
haired, the mother of three
children, the oldest of whom is
32, she looks today, despite the
abnormally strenuous life she
leads, much younger than her
years.
It was she who was directly
responsible for her husband’s
first entry into the Federal poli-
tical arena. In 1934 the then
Prime Minister, Mr. Lyons,
invited Menzies to resign from
the Victorian Parliament, contest
the safe Federal seat of Kooyong,
and take his place on the front
benches at Canberra as Attorney-
General. It was an attractive
prospect. But Menzies con-
sidered that it would cut too
much across his family and
home life and declined.
After giving Lyons his answer
he went home and told his wife
all about it.
She listened in silence. Then
she said: “I thought you always
wanted to devote as much of
your life as possible to the
highest form of public service
possible?”
“That’s correct,” said Menzies.
“And can’t you do more im-
portant work in Canberra than
here in Melbourne?”
“Agreed.”
“Then,” said his wife, “you
get on the telephone to Mr.
Lyons and tell him you will
accept his offer. Don’t worry
about me. I’ll manage some-
how.”
Even then Mrs, Menzies had
a conviction that her husband
was destined for high office and
great events. She believes pro-
foundly in him as a man with a
mission, and she has without
doubt dedicated her own life to
its promotion.
For years, now that her
family has grown up, Mrs.
Menzies has been her husband’s
constant companion on political
tours of Australia, and on mis-
sions abroad. And it may well
be significant that, as the de-
crease in her family responsi-
bilities has given her more time
for public affairs, so have her
husband’s political fortunes
prospered.
The Prime Minister takes no
pains to conceal his pride in his
wife. Woe betide any member
of his staff who, when travel-
ling, forgets that Mrs. Menzies
is a member of the party and
omits her from some function
which she ought to attend, or
neglects to advise the appro-
priate people that she is accom-
panying the Prime Minister.
Menzies will forgive many
sins in his subordinates. Neglect
of his wife, however inadvertent,
is not one of them. For her
nothing less than the best is
good enough.
Those who know her often
wonder at Mrs. Menzies’s
capacity to endure the physical
“strains to which she subjects
herself. In the early months of
1953, for instance, she toured
Western Australia, Tasmania
and Queensland, covering a
total distance of nearly 15,000
miles, meeting and shaking
hands with nearly 10,000 people,
delivering over 60 speeches and
retaining throughout a charm of
manner which men and women
alike find irresistible.
“I don’t go much on the big
bloke,” I heard one man com-
ment during one of her tours
with her husband. “But she’s a
bit of all right, ain’t she?”
And as Menzies himself said
in a speech at Bundaberg,
Queensland, in April, 1953 ;
“I’m glad that my wife can be
with me today, because, you
know, when people meet her
they think rather better of me!
(Laughter.) They say: ‘With
a wife like that he can’t be as
bad as we thought! ’ ”
Next to his wife, it can safely
be said that Menzies’s daughter
Heather is the apple of his eye.
Heather is 25, tall, fair-haired,
attractive and with a vivacity
that can disarm even her father’s
strongest critics.
She was educated at Ruyton,
Kew, Victoria. When she left
school, because she showed par-
ticular promise as a pianist she
went on to the Melbourne Con-
servatorium to study for her
Diploma of Music. She had no
idea of making a concert
pianist, but wanted to teach.
However, when her father be-
came Prime Minister for the
second time the family moved
to Canberra, and Heather gave
up her studies to help her
mother in the various official
duties at The Lodge,
When in Melbourne Heather
drives a Red Cross ambulance.
She also often deputises for her
mother at charitable functions
and electorate meetings. The
task that excited her most was
the journey which she made to
London, at less than 48 hours’
notice, in November, 1952, as
“nurse” to her sick father.
Menzies had been sent to bed
suffering from overstrain only
days before he was due to leave
for the Commonwealth Eco-
nomic Conference beginning in
December. At the combined
family and medical conference
which decided that the Prime
Minister could fulfil his com-
mitments in London it was also
unanimously decided that
Heather should travel with him
to watch his health and make
things as comfortable as pos-
sible for him during the difficult
month ahead.
Among the novelties of that
trip was her first international
Press conference at the Savoy
Hotel, where she exchanged an
admittedly good-natured parry-
and-thrust with some of Lon-
don’s best journalists for half
an hour and showed poise and
intelligence which drew the
praise of Fleet Street.
There are the closest bonds
of understanding and affection
between Heather and her father.
She is intensely proud of him;
and he, in turn, of the striking
girl who has, in recent years,
accompanied him more and
more on official occasions.
Some of the Prime Minister’s
happiest, if too rare, hours of
relaxation are long weekend
walks in Canberra with Heather,
in any weather, he in sports
clothes and an old hat, she in
the appropriate seasonal garb of
any out-door girl.
If you see them together on
such walks they will as often as
not be roaring with laughter.
And if you are curious and
want to know why, the explana-
tion is that they spend much of
their time composing alternate
lines of verse which lampoon
acquaintances who take them-
selves too seriously.
If, on such occasions, you
should see father and daughter
leaning against a country fence
for support in their helpless
laughter you will guess that a
particularly good limerick has
probably just been born.
The Prime Minister and Mrs.
Menzies also have two sons;
Ken, 32, who works for a Mel-
bourne estate-agent, and lan, 29,
who has a farm at Tungamah,
in northern Victoria.
Ken is the father of the first
Menzies grandchildren; Alex-
ander Robert, now aged two,
and his younger brother Lind-
say, born on November 11,
1953.
The Menzies have always
been a united family, not only
as parents and children but as
between the Prime Minister and
his brothers and sister. If the
papers report that he is, ill, for
instance, it is always his
brothers and his sister, Mrs.
I. A. Green, who are the first to
telephone from Melbourne to
find out how bad he is.
His brother Frank, Victoria’s
Crown Solicitor, looks after the
Prime Minister’s • private and
family affairs. His sister carries
his banner in a hundred ways,
some obvious, some unobtrusive.
Like his wife, they believe in
him and in his mission. It is
they who, in his adversities, stick
hardest to him —and he to them.
{To be continued next week)


THE CLIMATE OF
COURAGE
by Jon Oleary.—An outstanding war
novel telling the story of ordinary
fighting men; of Middle East veterans
returned to a Sydney changed by war;
of the multiple threads of their home
lives in war-time Australia; and of the
tough, enduring courage that led them
to triumph over New Guinea battle-
fields. “A very fine effort. One of the
best I have read about fighting men
and the wives and sweethearts never
far froip their minds.”—(Star Review).
16/- (post 9d.)
INDEPENDENT COMPANY
by Bernard Callinan.—This entirely
authentic book vividly records for the
first time, the splendid exploits of the
Australian 2/2 and 2/4 Independent
Companies in Timor. Bernard Callinan
rose to command the company of about
300 men who successfully pinned down
30,000 Japanese. 25 pages of photo-
graphs and 6 maps. “Colonel Callinan
tells an exciting story of ambushes and
hairbreadth escapes, carefully planned
hit-and-run tactics, improvised gear
and incredible stamina.” (Daily Tele-
graph). 21/- (post 9d.)
ANGUS
89-95 Castlereagh Street, S 3
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other books you need A-you’ll find them all at
& ROBERTSON LTD.
ney :: 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
THE ASHES CROWN THE YEAR
By J. H. FINGLETON
This book is more than simply a cricket book ; it is also the story of
Coronation year in England, as seen by an Australian journalist.
288 PAGES 26 ILLUSTRATIONS
Now Available from all Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
grounds, completely lacking in the aesthetic
appeal of little paintings of wildflowers
such as we get in Thistle Harris’s Wild-
flowers of Australia; and rather a formid-
able pleasure, since, as is indeed
unavoidable without a thousand color-
plates, the serious student is invited to
identify his wildflowers by a process
distressingly like mathematics: —
As the flower has five petals we select
the second A, and as our plant is not a
parasite on another, we pass to the second
B. The choice is now between four C’s,
and' as there are five sepals and petals we
choose the first C. The ovary is fully
inferior with a single, simple style and the
flowers are not in umbels (see Glossary for
illustrations) so we select the first D and
the first E in this Section, which gives us
the family Myrtacece
With all due respect to the late Dr.
Blackall, and his learned editor, Dr. B.
J. Grieve, it does not give the present
reviewer anything of the kind: it gives
him a small pain: and the only pleasure
he can find in this kind of literature is
to study the very beautiful private lan-
guage which the botanists use with such
skill. It is delightful to think of a calyx
being green and “broadly turbinate,” of
leaves being “linear-lanceolate” and not
(as would perhaps be disappointing)
“linear-triquetrous or terete.” One used
to turn to the back of Thistle Harris’s
book, where such details are decently
hidden from sight, solely for the joy of
learning that a perianth could be “glab-
rous,” a style-end “densely tomentose-
villous” and a glume “acute or aristate.”
However, Dr. Blackall and Dr. Grieve
are not writing for mere idle connoisseurs
of words and wildflowers but, as one has
aid, for the serious student: and for that
happiest of mortals their book should be
invaluable—an illustrated key to over
2800 species. For the hopeless amateur
there are 16 color-plates, making it rea-
sonably possible to identify 61 plants ;
which are perhaps enough to go on with.
One cannot resist adding, as a fascin-
ating crumb of information picked up in
the chapter on Cyperacece, that the “hypo-
gynous bristles” are sometimes absent.
However, if one has read the key
correctly they seem to be nicely ciliate
in Schoenus barbatus f known to lesser
men as the bearded bog-rush.
Reviewed Briefly
Christ Recrucified : Nikos Kazantzakis
(Cassirer: Faber). This is a remark-
able long novel, set in a backward Turkish
village populated by Greeks. Neither
Greeks nor the Turks are in the least
appealing from a Western point of view.
One has no desire to make their acquaint-
ance in the way that one might like to
meet Chevallier’s French peasantry. But
they live, in these pages, intensely, univer-
sally and most memorably. The theme
is simple: a year from the time the book
opens the villagers of Lycrovissi are to
enact a Passion play. In spite of his
corruption the priest who chooses the
actors succeeds in persuading them of
their need to prepare themselves spiritu-
ally for this honor. And the men them-
selves Christ, James, John, Peter and
Judas Iscariot and the appropriately-
selected Magdalene—in their several ways
begin to identify themselves with their
parts. Then, from a distant village
which has been razed by the Turks, -a
band of refugees led by a fanatical priest
seek sanctuary in Lycrovissi and are
iefused help by the majority of the
wealthy villagers. Within this framework
the course of events assumes a parallelism
with the Passion story, until the young
shepherd Manolios chosen as Christ for
the play is crucified. The novel is full
and fast-moving, often humorous, and in
Jonathan Griffin’s translation reads very
well.
♦ * * *
The Mummers: Max Catto (Heine-
mann). The story is about Rachel Mar-
lowe, 35, queen of the Edwardian music-
halls, and the challenge to her majesty
by Jennie Riggs, 23, stealing Rachel’s
limelight and lovers. A vivid picture is
drawn of the old variety-stage life and
its people.
* * * ♦
The Lovers’ Dilemma: Paul Bodin
(The Bodley Head), Translated from the
French by Pamela Morris, the novel is
about Etienne and Catherine, for years
bored with each other and with marriage,
being jerked into crisis when Etienne fails
in love with Odile. They grope (through
250 pages of endless converse) for a work-
ing arrangement that will allow the three
to eat their cake and have it too ; the
crisis having awakened in both spouses
the knowledge that they still need, even
if they do not love, each other. En route
the triangle tries the heroic measure of
a menage a trois; and the three are still
living together, with considerable unease,
when the novel ends.
* * * ♦
The Case of the Lazy Lover: Erie Stan-
ley Gardner (Heinemann). Perry Mason,
the lawyer, receives two cheques for the
same amount, one genuine, the other with
the same signature forged; later he learns
that these are to protect the daughter of
a trickster mine-financier. However, it is
the financier who, at last, after a great
deal of thoughtful jiggerypook by Mason,
is found dead in his car at the foot of a
cliff. How did he get there? Had. his
wife really eloped with his cunning
assistant? Had the assistant really lost
his memory? The plot finally turns round
the interpretation of a map of footprints
leading to, from and round the financier’s
car where it had been driven into a field
before it was run over the cliff —the first
time one can remember Gardner conde-
scending to a map or diagram. It is a
busy book, full of the small routines and
devices which make a Gardner mystery
resemble a continuous variety-show ; and
if the overall effect is not quite so per-
suasive as in some others of his “Cases,”
it at least has Book Society recommenda-
tion.
« ♦ * *
The Viking of Van Diemen’s Land, by
Frank Clune and P. R. Stephensen
(Angus and Robertson). Amidst a flood
of dates, references, quotations from
authorities and side-streams of history
and social-philosophy the Viking in this
clumsy book is Jorgen Jorgensen, a real-
life adventurer of 150 years ago whose
feats make the cinema ones of the Errol
Flynns the merest kindergarten stuff.
Though he died squalidly, an ex-convict
given in exchange for the gallows the
poor mercy of life-transportation to Tas-
mania, he had been both British and
Danish naval officer, economist, evange-
list, spy, author, artist, constable, warrior,
whaler, sailor, publicist, explorer, anthro-
pologist and confidant of such quality-
men as Banks, Macleay, Wellington,
Castlereagh, Arthur and Franklin and
self-appointed Cromwell of Iceland.
Dane-born but British both by choice
and accident, he helped make English
history at the battle of Waterloo and
siege of Copenhagen, and Australian as
mate of the exploration vessel Lady Nel-
son. He was a colleague of Flinders,
Bass, Grant and Baudin, a constable in
Tasmania’s black war and a pioneer of
its interior ; suffering the exquisite irony
of being in Tasmania in 1801-5 as a
highly-valued naval officer, the intimate
of Governors King and Collins, and in
1826-41 as a wretched convict. It is a
pity that so dramatic a story should be
so difficult to read.
* * * «
From Hamish Hamilton comes the
first of a two-volume edition of The
Collected Plays of Terence Rattigan.
Vol. 1, with a preface by the author in
which he says that “French Without
Tears” and “While the Sun Shines” have
both played for over a thousand perform-
ances, contains, besides those two plays,
the war-time comedy “Flare Path,” “Love
in Idleness,” and “The Winslow Boy.”
* * * *
This I Believe: “The personal philo-
sophies of 100 thoughtful men and
women” edited by Edward R. Morrow
(Hamish Hamilton). About half the
contributors are British, half American ;
they include Norman Angeli, Aneurin
Bevan, Tyrone Guthrie, Viscount Hail-
sham, C. Day Lewis, Aldous Huxley,
Will Durant, Thomas Mann, Mrs. Eleanor
Roosevelt, Carl Sandburg. The contri-
butions are all very short and such books
always seem too easy a way of dodging
Kant and Spinoza; but at least the names
are a remarkable array of top-liners.
* * * *
Man and His Gods: Homer W- Smith
(Cape; Australasian), This fascinating
and somewhat repellent book might
best be described as a reorganisation, in
the light of modern thought, of what
Professor Smith calls “the rambling
twelve” volumes of Frazer’s The Golden
Bough: fascinating because it examines
the religious beliefs of mankind from the
dawn of time; repellent because man’s
religions have so often led him into
human-sacrifice, mass-murder and war,
and because Professor Smith emphasises
this dark side of religion; modern
because, though the examination con-
cludes at the end of the 19th century.
Professor Smith uses all the resources of
contemporary science, geological, bio-
logical and psychoanalytical; a reorgani-
sation because the evidence is arrayed to
lead to the conclusion that “All human
history reveals that transcendental meta-
physics is not only futile, but dangerous.”
The book has an approving foreword by
Professor Einstein, who seems to have
forgotten that he has lately joined with
other atomic scientists in attempting to
set up a new, if rather more vague, system
of transcendental metaphysics.
* ♦ * *
The Road to Adventure: Jim Ingram
(John Long). Mr. Ingram was born with
a crippled hip and with eyes dimmed by
cataract —which disabilities he has over-
come to walk, far from his native Canada,
into all sorts of odd places in Europe:
principally, here, into pre-war Yugo-
slavia and, later, into post-war Scandin-
avia, with an interlude of forestry in
Dorset. He learned that there are no
Dalmatian dogs in Dalmatia; he encoun-
tered bandits and dancing dervishes ; and
(in Lapland) saw the bones of Nazi sol-
diers, fossicked for gold in remote rivers,
and heard stories of wolves and reindeer.
There is no particular distinction about
the book, but it is reasonably entertaining.
* * * *
The Faber Book of Children’s Verse:
Edited by Janet Adam Smith (Faber). It
seems fantastic to omit from this collec-
tion for children from eight to 14 that fine
and simple lyrist W. H. Davies, whom,
among recent writers, one would expect
to be a first and inevitable choice; and
it is possible that the editor (who is Mrs.
Michael Roberts) has taken too large a
bound from such Victorians and Ed-
wardians as Tennyson, Lear and Gilbert
to the writers of the 1930’s and later.
Excellent as his cat-verses are, six poems
by Eliot seems a large ration when Ed-
mund Blunden has only one piece (a
small translation), Edith Sitwell only one
and Davies none. However, there is
plenty of Yeats, Belloc, Hardy and
Walter de la Mare, and four poems by
Robert Frost compensate to some extent
for the absence of Davies and Blun-
den. With the omissions noted, it is, as
a whole, a rich and varied selection, rang-
ing from .Skelton to the most recent
times, wisely making room for such
standard pieces as “The Pied Piper” and
“The Ancient Mariner,” and particularly
pleasing in its lesser-known oddities, such
as George Peele’s “cockle-bread” song
and Kit Smart’s inimitable “My Cat Jeof-
fry”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 272
Across
I —The boss is in tears. (4)
3 Hilarity (not Hillary) on the
mount with the rough shale
guffaw. (5-5)
Sa, j tree to confuse with shame
and an assault. (5)
9 Pad the suite for the airborne
pistol-carrier. (9)
10 —Clock cannot be found? (4, 4)
12 Dash for the border insect. (3)
16 The French fellow from Scotland
is often squashed. (5)
18— Cesario responds to a bow. (5)
19— Bracelet from Maclean. (7)
21 — Nathaniel the Spruce. (5) '
22 This makes Eastlake spooky? (5)
23 It runneth over for an event for
winch Melbourne’s accommoda-
tion also runneth over. (3)
24 A natural singer where everybody
sings like Caruso. (4-4)
28 Expel the women from the re-
moter suburbs. (9)
29 Epigram with a conditional
theme. (5)
30 —Birds bit ranges. (10)
31 They help us to enter and to
decode the isles of Skye. (4)
Down
1— Groom has a sound, secure
innings. (6-4)
2 Put the money and the false-
teeth on the dentist’s gate. (5, 5)
4 Thus to hail in London. (4)
5 Cowardly Laguna personality
associated with an unliquidated
communist. (4-7)
6 Preposition. (4)
7 Plant in which a boy is not
completely employed. (4)
9—Without staff deprived of cour-
age. (8)
II —He exchanges his notes for food
when the cannibals capture an
English army. (5, 6)
13 — One aspect of jewel progeny
helps to remove cosmetics.
(4-6)
14 — Bloke goes with Nancy to the
place for a driver who takes the
pledge? (10)
15— Stopgaps work in the petticoat
industry. (10)
17—Love a duck, the article is in an
Attic city of ancient times. (2)
20 —The Gallic mole is clean-shaven.
(2)
25 —The business overhead is
involved in a spectacular politi-
cal manoeuvre. (4)
26 — Derision upset an outstanding
entertainer. (4)
27 — Nail the fellow dropped by
Bradman. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 271


I
j}f
q me
A
A
\
%
l\
•■i
\
pm
««»
r
\
%
ft
as
t
%
we
*
KL
e
Si
3SS*?
PS
m***
VA
a*
%
* ■-:
X
s
/
tV'
r
VC :
«
•-
It was the choking, acrid smell you noticed most of all: the
smell of burnt gum-leaves and charred green wood and grass and
hot earth. It stung your eyes and reached down into your throat.
The trees stood gaunt and stark, branches stabbing the air.
The scrub had been burnt right out and the forest floor was a
powdery black carpet, still smouldering, still glowing as breathy
gusts stirred the embers to life.
As you watched and waited, out from behind the drifting
smoke came the tractor, lurching over stricken trees, down into
stump-holes, the great steel tracks bringing it closer with every
throb of the powerful diesel engine. At the controls sat a tired
man bare to the waist, glistening with sweat, striped like an abo
at a corroboree with black streaks where the charcoaled branches
had caught him.
Red-rimmed eyes creased in a smile and he lifted s
hand in greeting as the tractor went past, the steel
rope from the winch stretched taut to the blackened
log that came snaking after, bumping and slewing
through the waste. v
Bob Backhouse was bringing out the logs.
The bushfire that roared through the forest
on the South Coast of New South Wales near the Benanderah Saw-
mill was bad. But work had to go on. Into the hot, smoking desola-
tion went the Backhouse Mill’s Caterpillar D 7 Tractor with its
powerful Hyster D7N winch ready, too, for the work that lay ahead.
Sure-footed tracks hit down, held and made the going certain.
The rugged. Caterpillar Diesel power plant supplied the push and
the pull, the powerful drive, in the difficult terrain.
And they brought the logs out to the mill, to bring timber to
the home-hungry.
—. i >n^ry-^ g - y
r ‘ . f' % t % *• •* • * s ‘
Mm- •' '<■ ' >.v s
• ..* y s _• %
BRISBANE
the s a. TRACTOR company
THt ADELAIDE
w
WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS
PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS
PTY. LTD.
HOBART
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD.
SYDNEY
tas
r _____ _
TRACTOR CO., PEORIA,
