

THE HOUSE
dsf
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO . ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3860
HISTORIC ROYAL VISIT
Wednesday, February 3, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Jeppelts
IN SYLVAN PEACE, CRAIGIEVAR DREAMS OF ANCIENT DAYS
THE traveller through the Highlands of Scotland cannot journey far
without coming in sight of a castle or the ruins of some ancient strong-
hold built on a mountain-peak or beside the waters of a misty loch. Many
are reputed to be the haunts of unearthly visitants and few of them, indeed,
are without their legend of the ghost of a hapless prisoner done to death in
their dark dungeons.
The feudal castle was established in Scotland by the new Norman ruling-
class in the 12th century. The Norman settlers came through the encourage-
ment of the early Scottish kings, David I, Malcolm IV and William the Lion.
These monarchs encouraged them to settle in order to fight against the savage
northern tribes of these days, who were a constant source of trouble to
the monarchy.
In accordance with the spirit of the times these lofty towers, in addition
to serving as homes of the nobility, were often equipped with defensive
features such as a drawbridge and portcullis. During the 14th century the
massive keeps were surmounted by projecting parapets through which molten
liquids could be poured upon an attacking force below. The top floors could
be reached from the ground by a circular stairway winding round a central
column.
During the 15th century the power of the barons increased, and the
feudal castles in Scotland reached their highest pitch of perfection. The
keeps, which were tall and massive structures, were fortified with “ports”
for cannon. By the 17th century the Scottish castles lost their military
importance and became picturesque and dignified residences, retaining their
war-like features as a decoration only. One of the finest examples of this
Renaissance style of castle is Craigievar, 25 miles from Aberdeen. This
baronial castle, with its turrets and high-pitched roofs, was built in 1624,
and is the property of Lord Sempill. A feature of the interior is the coat-of-
arms over the main fireplace, which is accompanied by the inscription, “Doe
not vaiken sleiping dogs.”


WRITE FOR PROFIT
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.” ,
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.B.C.
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—COT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S-B. 854)
AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P-O. Box 965, Wellington,
N Z specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 6/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
ELIZABETHAN AND OTHER
NOVELS
Among a collection of new Every-
man’s from Dent it is hardly surprising
that by far the most lively piece of read-
ing should be one of the stories in
Shorter Elizabethan Novels. In prose as
in poetry it was an age when the English
language had an earthy richness and
vitality seldom afterwards, except per-
haps in Swift and Fielding, recaptured ;
and some of the dialogue in Thomas
Deloney’s “Jacke of Newberie” would fit
equally well into Urquhart’s great trans-
lation of Rabelais or into the conversa-
tion of Falstaff or the old nurse in
“Romeo and Juliet.”
Dame Tittle Tattle, otherwise known
as Gossip Pintpot, barred from his house
by Jacke of Newberie for her trouble-
making tongue, has called in his absence
and, finding that his wife is also from
home, settles down to get drunk and
make trouble with the servants ; and here,
in true Shakspearian raciness, she rants
in her cups:
Nay then (quoth shee) your Mistresse
is both an Asse and a Foole; and though
shee go in her Hood, what care I? she
is but a girle to mee: Twittle twattle, I
know what i know: Go too, drinke to
mee. Well Tweedle I drink to thee with all
my heart: why thou horeson, when wilt
thou bee married? O that I were a yongue
wench for thy sake: but tis no matter,
though I be but a poore woman, I am
a true woman. Hang dogs, I have dwelt
in this towne these thirty winters and
your Mistresse, now shee is rich, and I am
poore, but its no matter, I knew her a
draggle tayle girle, mark yee?
Or there is the formidable speech of
Sir George Rigley when one of Jacke of
Newberie’s serving-maids, whom the
noble knight has seduced under promise
of marriage, asks him to carry out his
promise:
Why thou lewd paltry thing (quoth he)
commest thou to father thy bastard upon
me? Away ye dunghill carrion, away;
Heare you good huswife, get you among
your companions, and lay your litter where
you list: for if you trouble mee any more,
by heaven I sweare, thou shalt dearly abide
it: and so bending his brows like the angry
god of war, he went his wayes, leaving the
child-breeding wench to the hazzard of her
fortune, eyther good or bad.
It is true that, in spite of this sparkling
vigor, “Jacke of Newberie” has hardly
plot or form enough to make it a very
good novel. Essentially, though it wan-
ders from the theme, it is the success-story
of a village clothier who became a great
manufacturer on terms of some famili-
arity with “King Henrie the eight,”
whom on one occasion, as the king was
approaching his village, he is supposed to
have bailed-up like a highwayman while
he told him a fable about butterflies, to
the extreme annoyance of Cardinal Wol-
sey, the butterfly intended to be men-
tioned. But it is best read as a series of
episodes, more-or-less as one reads
Chaucer; and (with some similar small
debt to Boccaccio) there is no lack of ripe
Chaucerian comedy in these episodes :
how the Tanner and the Parson wooed
the Widow; how the factory-girls served
Will Sommers, the king’s jester, for his
“sawcinesse”; and how Jacke of New-
berie’s servants, in revenge upon Gossip
Pintpot, got her so drunk she couldn’t
stand, and carried her round the town in a
countryman’s basket, inquiring at every
door whether anybody knew who she
was.
In his introduction to Shorter Eliza-
bethan Novels (which also contains
Robert Greene’s “Carde of Fancie” and
Thomas Nashe’s “The Unfortunate Trav-
eller”) Philip Henderson reminds us
that Deloney, the author of “Jacke of
Newberie” —born in London in 1543 —•
made in his novels “the first consistent at-
tempt in English literature at drawing
material for fiction from the everyday
life of ordinary people.” But if we take
another new Everyman, The Anglo-
Saxon Chronicle, freshly translated and
edited by G. N. Garmonsway with some
fearsome corrections of mistakes that
aave been made by former learned trans-
lators, we have a glimpse, if not into the
novel, into English prose a long way
further back; at its very beginnings, in-
deed.
Of the first importance to the special-
ist, the Chronicle in its bald, tabulatory
style is hardly for general reading; nor
indeed, with all due deference, can one
agree that Mr. Garmonsway’s description
of it (which he has accepted from other
authorities) as “the first great book in
English prose,” is altogether apt.
It is great in historical importance;
and it is true to say that we find in it
“the beginnings of English prose, the un-
mannered simplicity of which found con-
tinuous expression in devotional books
and vernacular sermons down to Tudor
times when it became the language of
More and Tyndale and the instrument in
the following century of the translators of
the “Authorised Version of the Bible” ;
but in itself, except in rare passages of
drama, it has little claim to purely liter-
ary greatness. It was never intended to
be more than a bare historical tabulation.
The “profile of William the Con-
queror,” to which Mr. Garmonsway gives
special mention, lacks just what it needs
for excellence as a literary portrait—a
physical description of the Conqueror.
But the Chronicle is, all the same, a
fascinating book for even the non-special-
ist to dip into: both for the oddity and
the impression of immense antiquity that
characterise some of the strange, abrupt
entries (the total information on the year
a.d. 671 for instance: “In this year
there was the great mortality of birds” ;
one of these news-items which, as Mr.
Garmonsway says, would have provided
in its period a topic for a whole winter
night’s conversation by the fireside), or,
more importantly, for the meetings with
Alfred the Great, who is said, with many
scholarly reservations, to have had some
hand in writing the Chronicle or at least
in ordering its compilation:
878. In this year the host went secretly
in midwinter after Twelfth Night to Chip-
penham, and rode over Wessex and occu-
pied it, and drove a great part of the in-
habitants oversea, and of the rest the
greater part they reduced to submission,
except Alfred the king; and he with a small
company moved under difficulties through
woods and into inaccessible places in the
marshes.
There are, too, more frequently in the
later years as the history expands a
little, queer moments of immemorial
tragedy; the death of Harthacnut in
1042, the year after he had “betrayed Earl
Eadwulf, although he had guaranteed his
safety, and thereby became a breaker of
his pledge”;
1042. In this year Harthacnut died as
he stood at his drink and he suddenly fell
to the ground with a horrible convulsion;
and those who were near thereto took hold
of him, but he never spoke again, and
passed away on 8 June. And the whole
nation then received Edward as king, as
was his right by birth
Or the massacre of the monks at Glas-
tonbury in 1083 when, attacked by
French soldiers of their abbott, with
whom they had some obscure dispute,
the wretched monks lay round about the
altar and some crept underneath, crying
aloud to God, desperately imploring His
mercy when none was forthcoming from
men. What more can we find to say except
that they showered arrows, and their com-
panions broke down the doors to force an
entrance, and struck down and killed some
of the monks, wounding many therein, so
that their blood ran down the altar on to
the steps, and from the steps to the floor.
Three of the monks were done to death
and eighteen wounded.
From the Anglo-Saxons and their
Chronicle we return to the novel proper
—though it is still in its prolonged in-
fancy, and indeed has gone astray from
the sturdy realism of Thomas Deloney—
in a companion to the Elizabethan vol-
ume, Shorter Novels of the Eighteenth
Century, also edited by Philip Henderson.
It contains Dr. Johnson’s “Rasselas,”
Horace Walpole’s “The Castle of
Otranto” and William Beckford’s
“Vathek.”
“Rasselas” has, of course, its place
in the world’s satirical fables, heavy-
handed enough when compared to
the spirited invention of Candida or
Gulliver, but moving more readily than
one might expect from the ponderous
Johnson as his Prince goes searching for
perfect happiness in an Abyssinia which
no inhabitant of that country would
recognise and which, if one asked for
realism, would contrast very oddly with
the land of Evelyn Waugh’s Black Mis-
chief.
“The Castle of Otranto,” that totally
absurd fantasy in which a monstrous
helmet, apparently about as big as a
haystack, suddenly appears out of no-
where in the castle courtyard and sets
loose an extravaganza of pictures walk-
ing out of their frames, giants lurking
in the bedrooms, ghosts groaning in the
corridors and hero and heroine popping
in and out of cellars and manholes like
demented jack-in-the-boxes while the
lord of the manor pursues them with
gnashing teeth, has surely survived only
because of the fascination of its extreme
badness.
In many respects it must have serious
claims to be ranked as one of the worst
works ever written; but Walpole, whose
talent, like Deloney’s, really lay in the ob-
servation of everyday life, showed a
small, feline kind of genius in his letters— *
indeed nobody has ever pounced with
sharper little claws upon a mouse of
gossip—and to this day it remains diffi-
cult to believe that his “Gothic
romance” can really be as ridiculous as it
undoubtedly is. Perhaps, as well as its
interest as a curiosity, it has been of some
value as a source for more reputable fan-
tasies, for it is hard to imagine that the
giant stuck in the bedroom in the Castle
of Otranto was not the ancestor of Lewis
Carroll’s immortal Alice when she lay
in a similar predicament in the house of
the White Rabbit and kicked Bill the
Lizard out of the chimney into the
cucumber-frames:
“‘The ghost! no, no,’ said Diego, and
his hair stood on end—‘it is a giant, I be-
lieve: he is all clad in armor, for 1 saw
his foot and part of his leg, and they are
as large as the helmet below in the court.’
As he said these words, my lord, we heard
a violent motion, and the rattling of
armor, as if the giant was rising, for Diego
has told me since that he believes the giant
was lying down, for the foot and leg were
stretched at length on the f100r...,f0r
Heaven’s sake, good my lord, send for the
chaplain, and have the castle exorcised, for,
for certain, it is enchanted.”
Much the best of these 18th-century
novels is “Vathek” ; another fantasy, and
a tale like “Rasselas” with the Near-
Eastern setting so popular in the period,
but immensely superior to the others in
its swiftness of movement and witty,
slightly decadent sophistication.
It is the old “Faust” story of a man
who sold himself to the devil —in this
case, Vathek, a caliph in Arabia, who
commits the monstrous crime of des-
troying a troop of children in order to
be admitted to the infernal regions where
the Giaour has promised him immortal
delights and powers —and the excellence
of the cruel, sardonic picture of life is
matched by the excellence of a most
horrible hell where, among the rows of
columns and arcades deep in the caverns
of the earth, on the pavements strewn
with gold-dust and saffron, past the
tables strewn with “the profusion of
viands and wines of every species
sparkling in vases of crystal,” throngs of
fantastic spirits of both sexes “danced
lasciviously at the sound of music which
issued from beneath”; but where the
ghosts of the dead stalked fearfully by,
always with their right hands on their
hearts which are eternally consumed by
inward fire, “a vast multitude incessantly
passing, without once regarding anything
around them : they all had the livid
paleness of death. Their eyes, deep sunk
in their sockets, resembled those phos-
phoric meteors that glimmer by night in
places of interment.”
Beckford, the writer of this cautionary
tale, was himself a very odd character,
suspected of indulging in dark and mys-
terious orgies in his immense Gothic
abbey which he built with a tower mod-
elled on that of Salisbury Cathedral (it
blew down in a gale) and which he
crammed with “the treasures of the pal-
aces of Europe —pictures of Raphael,
Bellini, Breughel, Leonardo, Velasquez
and Rembrandt, an ebony cabinet de-
signed by Bernini, a Cellini vase.” He
studied music under Mozart at the age
of five; inherited a vast fortune in his
ninth year; shut himself up as a sinister
recluse at Fonthill, after his European
travels, for twenty years; and died at
Bath at the age of 84, “his face, it is
said, showing scarcely a trace of age.”
Some other recent Everyman reprints—
illustrating the range and diversity of this
wonderful library of the world’s classics
—are The Ramayana and the Mahab-
harata (two epics of ancient India con-
densed into English verse by Monash C.
Dutt), Portuguese Voyages (still in regret-
tably poor type), Shelley in two volumes,
a Dictionary of Shakspeare Quotations,
Johnson’s The Rambler and, to bring the
novel up-to-date, John Galsworthy’s The
Country House.
Reviewed Briefly
I Live in a Suitcase : Margaret Mackay
[Faber). Mrs. Mackay was in Honolulu
[or the attack on Pearl Harbor; before
then she had been in China; and after-
wards did a really fanatistic amount of
travelling—Borneo, Scotland, Vienna,
Dublin, Paris, Bali, the U.S.A. She
writes lightly and amusingly about it all
and has an observant eye for people as
well as places.
* * ♦ *
Caravan to Xanadu: Edison Marshall
(Shakspeare Head). “All characters in
this novel are fictitious and bear precious
little relation to those long-dead persons
whose names have been borrowed” might
well preface this “Novel of Marco Polo.”
Since, if you can digest Edison Marshall’s
somewhat pretentious style, the yarn is
quite a good adventure-story, it will prob-
ably achieve considerable popularity and
do no harm except to youngsters who
have a way of learning a good deal of
history from historical fiction, and are
likely to surprise their teachers if they
quote from this book. They will learn
that Polo’s father considered him illegiti-
mate ; that young Marco came by the
money to finance his first voyage by
selling a mysterious slave-girl, daughter
of a noble Englishman, and some peculiar
sidelights on the early uses of asbestos
which should enliven the chemistry-class
no end.
* # . *
The Devil Rides Outside: John
Howard Griffin (Collins). The author
of this extraordinary first-novel is a
Texan who, after being a student in
France before the war, joined the
Defence Passive, then the U.S. Air
Force, had some amazing adventures
and is now, as a result of war-injury,
blind and running a pedigree livestock-
stud in Texas—he has learned both
ordinary and musical Braille. His book
concerns a young American who enters
a strict Benedictine monastery to study
Gregorian chants and becomes torn by
conflicts between the spiritual life of the
monks and the temporal life of the village
(which is where he finds the devil, mainly
in female shape). The book is too
wordy to be described as “good,” but
there is one character, the widow
Madame Renee, who “mothers” and then
seduces the hero, who would be, if she
had been presented unimpeded by faults
of style and construction, superb.
♦ ♦ * #
Man and Beast: Phyllis Bottome
(Faber), The wheels click round a little
too deliberately in this collection of
stories about people and animals —they
are too artfully artless, and, although
subtle, do not avoid the pitfall which
most writers about animals fall into, of
being sentimental. The animals range
from circus lions and tigers, a perform-
ing horse, a working dog in the Austrian,
Alps to a savage Jersey bull on an Eng-
lish farm. The theme, varied in each
tale, is really constant: that the animal
“soul” contains some quality more
worthy of respect than the human. This
may be true of the humans portrayed
here animal - trainers, a very young
child, and an old poverty-stricken
peasant woman with a selfish, sick hus-
band —but it leaves a great number of
humans out of account, and a lot of
animals, too, the beasts of these stories
being, on the whole, uncommon repre-
sentatives of their kind. Though it is
not a “children’s book,” older children
will like these stories. The volume is
carelessly printed.
* * * *
The Flower of May: Kate O’Brien
(Heinemann). Opening in Dublin in
1906, when Fanny Morrow, the central
character, was 18, this book tells the
story of the next few years in her life—
of her travels in Europe, especially Italy,
with Belgian friends, the de Mellins, and
of her experiences among her delightful
Irish family and friends. There are humor
and heartache and a most refreshing
warmth in the writing, though perhaps
this novel is a little more stagey and
contrived than some of Kate O’Brien’s
earlier books. Nevertheless, it is excel-
lent entertainment by an author who,
with unusual skill, can present and develop
large numbers of characters both singly
and in groups.


HE DIRECTORS AND STAFF OF
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
HUMBLY EXPRESS THEIR LOYALTY
AND AFFECTION IN BIDDING A
SINCERE AND WARM
ON THIS MOMENTOUS OCCASION.
THE MAGNITUDE OF OUR GOOD FORTUNE
WILL BE INDELIBLY WRITTEN ON THE
MEMORY OF OUR LIFETIME AND IN THE


The Not-so-simple life
In Search of a Home
By DE FACTO WIDOWER
I am a professional man, middle-aged,
with a very comfortable income.
My children are now off my hands,
and my wife has been in hospital
for the last ten years. It may seem
strange that a man in my position should
be worried about living conditions, but
the difficulties increase with the years.
My story is typical of thousands in
Sydney.
When a break-up of the home occurs
one has a large house, the children can
stand on their own feet, and the problem
is—what to do? Invariably one seeks
advice from friends in the same posi-
tion ; mine were not reassuring, but, in
essence, the advice was to get a house-
keeper. Although that wasn’t how they
put it. You can start with a house-
keeper, they said...
I can speak with great authority on
housekeepers, because I have had a pro-
cession of them. They are of various
types: There are those who imagine you
have designs on them, and are at pains
to keep you at arm’s length ; those who
are offended if you fail to come up to
their standards of friendliness; there is
the martinet, and the whinger, and the
plain slovenly . . . But of one thing I’m
convinced. The average man is quite
incapable of judging the potentialities of
a housekeeper at an interview.
Some applicants rely on charm, sub-
tract a few years from their age, and are
gushing in a rather dreadful, unnerving
way which, somehow, seems to gain
their objective. But still they have
charm, and if one is weak one engages
them —to find that they have a charm-
ing vagueness about cooking, housework,
and household accounts. Some of the
more promising, after a week or two, get
on the booze.
Then there is the tearful woman with
a moving story. If one doesn’t engage
her one is a brute. Those of this type
are failures. Some of them produce
impressive references. But I have learnt
to beware of references, especially refer-
ences from clergymen. Clergymen have
soft hearts. And clergymen who happen
to be personal friends of the would-be
employer are apt to be a bit unscrupu-
lous.
Eventually, after a succession of
housekeepers, none of whom lasted more
than a month, during which time a lot
of household linen, cut-glass, and other
movables kept disappearing, and house-
hold expenses kept climbing, I called in
the help of female relations. My wife’s
sister volunteered to pick a housekeeper
for me, and she was very hard to please.
She had a particular prejudice against
younger women, and any with any pre-
tensions to good looks were branded
“hussies” and rejected out of hand. The
choice she finally made was a singularly
bad one.
I consulted, a valued friend, very
experienced in this manner of living.
He said, whatever you do, or whatever
woman you pick, people will talk about
you. The only way to be safe from
scandal is to engage a woman of 80, and
she will be too feeble to do any work at
all. He put his hands in his pockets and
looked me up and down: “God knows
what will become of you. What do you
like for Canterbury on Saturday?”
Then, after more disappointments, I
engaged a gem of a housekeeper. An
active, middle-aged, sensible woman,
friendly in an off-hand way, a beautiful
cook. Without fuss, she kept the house
shining, unobtrusively looked after my
clothes, and liked entertaining. She was
only too pleased when I invited friends
home for dinner, and there was a real
pleasure in having people sit down at my
own table, in 'confident enjoyment of a
well-cooked meal. She was as honest as
the sun. Overjoyed, I rushed to tell my
worldly friend about it. He said
“Beware! ” -
After a few weeks she asked me if I
minded having her daughter there for
the weekend. I didn’t. What a fool I
was! It was the beginning of an insidi-
ous invasion. The daughter brought her
husband. They stayed. Another daugh-
ter turned up ; and there was an elderly
woman, whose relationship I could never
quite determine, who had a habit of
buttonholing me at the front-door and
asking me if I knew the Governor-
General, and who stayed in the bath-
room for hours. Inevitably, my living-
area shrank, until, finally, I settled in a
small, rather dark back-room, which
became my bedroom, living-room and
study.
Then my daughter returned from
abroad, to find every bedroom in the
house occupied, including her room.
Women can become annoyed very
quickly, and my daughter was not at all
pleased with the arrangements. There
were angry words, and I, seeing the row
brewing, escaped, and did not turn up
for three days ...
I couldn’t give my housekeeper the
sack. She was, after all, an excellent
housekeeper. And her relations appar-
ently bought their own food. On the
other hand, I couldn’t stand up to my
daughter. I sold the furniture, put the
house in an agent’s hands, and gave up
housekeeping for good.
When I took this drastic step it
seemed to me that club life was the ideal
one for a man of my age and tastes. I
am a member of one or two clubs, and
the thought of living in one permanently,
meeting the boys, smoking, drinking,
relaxing in happy, masculine safety, away
from women, away from petty house-
keeping worries, was peculiarly attractive,
I enjoyed it for a time. I drank
whisky; I talked to the boys ; I played
the .poker-machine ; I talked to the boys ;
I played the poker-machine; I drank
whisky.
After a time I found the conversation
of the boys less entertaining, the poker-
machine less fascinating. After a month
I had had enough.
I went to a hotel. A very superior and
expensive hotel. And if there is anything
more soul-destroying than a superior
hotel, as a long-term experience, I have
yet to encounter it. There is an intense
loneliness about hotel life, a monotony
of meals, however expensive, a monotony
of surroundings, a monotony in the
changing faces of anonymous guests,
each absorbed in his own interests, his
own life. There had been a time when
to stay at this hotel, for a week or so,
would have been a great treat, a luxury.
Now it was dreadful. But I stuck it for
several months.
A friend recommended a high-class
boarding-house, where, he assured me,
they would really make me comfortable.
I have discovered since that my friend
is famous for his practical jokes.
Another boarding-house (I left the
first rather hurriedly), arid, in its way,
not at all a bad place. Pricey, But the
food was good, the service quite reason-
able. They called it a guest-house, of
course, and there were many women,
wealthy, I suppose, and with plenty of
time on their hands. They talked. They
talked and talked and talked, and no
one’s reputation within four-square-mile
of the place was worth a penny when
they had finished with it.
There were a few decent people—odd,
hunted, elderly males, a married couple
or two, spending a holiday in Sydney—
but the women dominated the place.
They waged bitter, genteel warfare over
places at table, they insisted, with bitter-
sweet firmness, on telling me about them-
selves. They pestered me for professional
advice; they complained about the hot-
water and curried favor with the cook.
I got out.
Someone suggested a private family.
This sounded a marvellous idea, and, at
last, I found a very nice family willing
to board me. A pleasant home in a con-
venient suburb, good meals, cleanliness,
comfort. But they wanted to make me
one of the family. If I came home late
at night someone would be waiting up
for me with a cup of tea. If I was read-
ing in my room they would insist on
me joining the family circle. If friends
called, I must be introduced. If I wanted
a quiet sleep in my room, on a Sunday
afternoon, they thought it would be good
for me to sit in the sun in the garden.
They were determined not to neglect me.
Now, at my time of life, a man
becomes set in his ways. I work hard,
and my most pressing need when I come
home is privacy and relaxation. But
they were nice people, and it seemed
brutal to rebuff their advances...
The only thing left was to get three
or four furnished rooms, live alone, and
have my meals out, A woman comes in
daily, cleans-up the place, and looks after
my laundry. On the whole, the arrange-
ment works well. But it is a lonely life,
and a comfortless one. One becomes
very tired of restaurant meals, but, for
some curious reason, one becomes very
conservative in choice of restaurants. I
alternate between two or three places,
and I am sick of them.
Then, too, a time comes "when, even
in restaurants, the prospect of sitting
near old So-and-so, who always goes
there, and always makes the same re-
mark about the fish, strikes one with a
sort of horror. It seems better to walk
out, go home, and dine on bread-and-
butter and a cup of strong tea out of
the cracked cup. Particularly after a
trying day.
The man living alone is amazed by
the number of people, especially women,
who wish to befriend him. If he has a
car he is at everyone’s beck and call, and
is asked to drive parties, sometimes
hundreds of miles. He is asked to play
cards a lot, and it soon becomes plain
that he is expected to drive other guests
home.
If he is friendly with one woman
people suspect a de facto relationship.
He receives many invitations, but, as he
cannot adequately return hospitality, he
refuses more and more and becomes
more and more lonely. Then it dawns
on a majority of his nieces and nephews
that he has a comfortable income and,
apparently, no one to spend it on. He
gets letters: “Dear Uncle, I am in
desperate need of money, could you—
will certainly pay it back... .within two
months....” Younger relations have the
airiest ideas about the realities of income
tax, running expenses, and the like.
There is no acknowledgment of money
lent, and, of course, no repayment, .A
man would be considered a miser of the
most sinister type if he asked for it.
Recently one of my daughters visited
me. She inspected the place, and gave
me her opinion (I hadn’t asked for it).
She went mad about the woman who
cleaned it up, and the woman has since
given notice. She says my living condi-
tions are disgraceful, that I have nothing
(her italics), and that I have become a
universal benefactor for everyone except
my own family.
My other children began to take an
interest: even my son, whom I have
considered a nice bloke, took to dropping
in and engaging me in man-to-man talks.
But the girls are more direct, and more
persistent. They say I am a disgrace to
my profession. That no other profes-
sional man in Sydney lives as I live.
That if I have no respect for myself I
should at least consider their social
positions.
The position is intolerable: the general
atmosphere so cold that I dare not sug-
gest living with one of them; but get
out I must. Luckily, today I met a
friend who has a large furnished flat to
let in the eastern suburbs. He also
knows an excellent housekeeper. I affl
moving in next week. I am sure it i s
going to be all right this time . ~
On Paper
WHENEVER I have occasion
—fortunately not often—to
put a classified ad. in a news-
paper I am always vaguely
conscious of a feeling that the man
behind the counter doesn’t approve
of what I put in it.
For instance, the time I promul-
gated the news to a world agog that
my wife and I had acquired our first
infant the counter minion sharply
questioned my instructions to put it
in the “Personal and Missing
Friends” column. Even when I
pointed out that nothing could pos-
sibly be more personal, especially for
my wife, than having a baby, he was
adamant, declaring that it would go
in the “Birth Notices” or nowhere.
Alsd, he insisted I sign the
authorisation on the back before he
would accept it. “What Alick,” I
said, “present company excepted,
would want to claim the birth of
someone else’s kid?” But logic, it
seemed, had to bow to stupid con-
vention
Today, however, I handed him
my filled-in ad. with more confidence.
There could, I felt, be nothing here
he could cavil at. Everything, to me,
was crystal-clear
After glancing it through he
turned on me one of those mocking,
superior looks which people who
think they know everything use
when they are in some
authority 1
“You say here,” he said coldly:
“■Lost between Tuesday and last
Fnday-Week in bus stop owner may
have on suitably describing same
Ring X0501.’ For a start, you can’t
i° S bus“mn” 8 in 3 bUS ‘ St ° P ; U ’ S
“X never said it was a bus-stop, I
said in a bus," I protested.
,
P.° y? u , tbmk p£ an * lead;,I ead ;, be
xchumed hotly. Here it is he
pushed the form under my nose.
In bus stop. See?”
You appear to be totally
ignorant,” I said bluntly, “of general
usage which a child would know.
Haven’t you ever sent a telegram?
Don’t you know the word ‘stop’ is
used to denote a period, a full-stop?
I said, ‘ln bus-stop. Quite correct,
Now read on.” .
He clawed at his collar. “Well,
you say something is lost, then you
go on to say owner can have on
identifying, or words to that effect.
If you lost an article you’d be the
owner.”
“Who said I’d lost it?” I asked.
“Actually, it was I who found it.”
“Well, why do you say here it was
lost?” he rasped,
“Well, wasn’t it?” I asked, and
the inexorability of my logic
appeared to stun him.
On reviving he took another grip
on himself and said slowly: “You
don’t say what it was you found.”
“Would I be so silly,” I said, “as
to disclose it so that any Tom, Dick
or Harry could claim it? After all,
wouldn’t anyone losing anything on
a bus know what he’d lost? Actually,
it was a pump I found.”
“What sort?” he asked bitterly,
“Bike, motor, windmill or ship’s?”
“Not that sort of‘pump at all,” I
explained. “Just a shoe.. A high-
heeled, peeper-toe, black glace court-
shoe ’ but y° u don,t think rd be mu §
enou 8 h to pay for putting that long
description in, do you? If it must
8° m > i ust P ut down ‘pump,’ though
1 allow xt onl y under protest.”
g| ance d at it once more, and
again his brows came together,
“You’ve got it under ‘Cats and
V ”, he said savagely,
That s right, I explained. You
see > the shoe fits m y Wlfe perfectly,
and y° u never know but what 1 ml § ht
some time or other pick up an
exact match to it for the other foot
?° 1 ,h . ou B ht “ nder
Cats and Dogs tt is less likely to be
noticed Yet I will have fulfilled my
' e « al obligations and so be immune
from any possible future charge of
larceny by finding,
p.ctatotially he struck my heading
and PH! t ,
He turned it over and then barked :
«’ and rudely
P “ ‘Ved and returned it. As he
r . ead « h t said "° h ;
Aristotle Gawp, Esquire, eh? Not
just plain Aristotle Gawp.
“You still are a bit dull in the
dome,” I replied. “The name isn’t
Mr rjawn ”
“But you’ve got it down here,” he
said, his manner changing. “If it’s a
phony”
“You jump to conclusions,” I
sa id. “A bad fault. My name is
Esq. My grandfather, Theophilus
Esq, started the first blancmange
factory in Sydney back in the
’eighties. The Aristotle is from my
Uncle Aristotle, who gained celebrity
by pinching the first foot-warmer
ever to be used in our railway-
carriages. The Gawp is an old Lin-
colnshire family - name on my
paternal grandmother’s side”
But I don’t think he was listening.
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 3, 1954
Vol. 75—No. 3860
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man**
—— r-
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O. ), Wellington.
THE QUEEN AND THE PEOPLE
Australia, since its first foundation as a civilised
country, more than any other Dominion has had a
connection with the Crown and Throne. It has never
been anything but British in race, tradition and rule.
It has never known but one mode of rule, and that
based upon a constitutional monarchy; for when
the first colonists landed, the continent being neither
conquered nor ceded, they carried with them “the law
of their native country, so far as it is applicable to their
new situation and circumstances.” They were not
divested of their nationality by reason of living at
the ends of the earth. They were still entitled to the
proud privileges and to protection as British subjects
under the Throne and Parliament; and that position
has never altered save that Parliamentary self-govern-
ment has been extended to these shores and both the
Crown and the Legislature have taken root and become
part of us.
In each step forward towards nationhood the
Monarchy had its intimate share, and not only the
Monarchy but the single dynasty to which her Majesty
the Queen belongs. Her ancestor King George 111
issued the first commission to a Governor of part of
the New Holland Territory in 1786, and it began with
his name—“ George the Third..... to our trusty and
well-beloved Captain Phillip, greeting....” Queen
Victoria, her Majesty’s great-great-grandmother,
signed the bills which gave the Australian colonies
separation and self-government and brought the Aus-
tralian people’s aspirations to their climax in the
foundation of the Federal Constitution. Her grand-
father, the late King George V, performed the cere-
mony of opening the first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. Her father opened the national Parliament in
Australian Capital Territory in 1927. And she her-
self, during her stay, which is not a visit, since she is
part of us and of all our legislative Constitutions, will
seal a relationship between Crown and people, which
no vicissitude has ever been able to break, by exercising
her statutory and other functions in every capital.
It would take a revolution indeed to root the
Queen out of the everyday life of the Australian
people; for every legislative or executive act needs
her authority in some form, every coin bears her like-
ness, every commission in the Forces or in the Gov-
ernment is issued under her authority, every ship, and
fort, every place of public business flies her ensigns,
every church prays for her, and every assemblage and
entertainment begins or ends with the rendering of
her anthem.
It is one of the most impressive phenomena of
history that this relationship has been maintained
through all the generations of changing times. In
Europe few countries have managed to keep their
method of rule stable through the last century and a
half. Even monarchies in intimate contact with their
people have not been able to survive the impact of
war and of new ideas. Yet here is a country distant
from the seat of the Throne by the width of a world
which, through seven reigns and into an eighth, has
firmly held its allegiance to one family, one monarchy,
one ideal in government, without ever having before
seen a crowned Monarch on its shores or having had
the Queen or any of her predecessors exercise directly
within the compass of its coasts the Australian func-
tions which Constitutions have deeded to her and
which, in general, are summarised by Section I of
the Commonwealth Constitution Act, which declares
that “the legislative power of the Commonwealth
shall be vested in a Federal Parliament, which shall
consist of the Queen, a Senate and a House of Repre-
sentatives, and which is hereinafter called ‘The Parlia-
ment.’ ”
If this is remarkable in itself and seemingly
against the nature of democratic evolution, it seems
even more an astonishing paradox that, as the people
and their elected representatives have claimed more
and more of the rights of the Crown, the bond between
people and Monarch have become closer and more
affectionate, the interest in the Royal family more
intense and universal, the symbolism of the Throne
more potent, till it has come to have something of the
significance of religion.
Kings and queens no longer have much initiative
in the government of Australia. All is done on the
advice of their Ministers and given Royal assent by
their deputies. They cannot even appoint their own
vice-regal representatives save, by compulsion, on
Ministerial advice. Yet somehow this has placed the
people on their side, and it is strange that the Crown,
Which appears to yield to its Ministers, has a repu-
HAPPY LANDING!
tation, a glamor and authority denied to the most
distinguished statesmen.
More than all this, the British Commonwealth is fe
not any longer a homogeneous whole, bound by one
overall national policy, one overall ideal or even one
rigidly conceived system of government. Its races
differ, its ideals differ, its aims differ, its views from
time to time diverge openly even to the point of
opposed voting by Dominions at international con-
gresses ; yet throughout there is one,binding link, one
common factor—the Crown, maintaining its hold on
all by means of something which cannot be put exactly
into words.
The Crown maintains its grip on its peoples more
through sentiment and tradition than through reason,
more through affection than obligation. But whatever
is the mainspring of this manifestation, it is the reality
itself that matters: that within the next few months
not Socialism nor anarchical principles, nor professed
contempt for the flag or for the Throne and for its
“baubles and gewgaws,” as the late King O’Malley
used to call them, will prevent the surliest demagogue,
the sourest iconoclast from rushing to catch a glimpse
of the Royal couple or to bow the knee on a crimson
carpet if he gets the chance.
No matter how divided by personal nature, by
political belief, by circumstance or by experience,
there is nobody so dead to sentiment or to innate and
instinctive loyalty as not to desire to glimpse the
Queen, to come near the Queen, to join in the shout
of “God Save the Queen” which will echo round the
continent for the next few weeks.
One People, One Destiny
It will be a pity if the occasion of the Queen’s visit
does no more than provide the opportunity for some
strategically-placed Australians to make a political
and social show of themselves and their friends and
hangers-on. For it really is a great event in our
history; to be visited by our reigning monarch, and
she so inspiring and gracious, and so devoted to her
great task. The Queen comes to Australia at a time
when this country sorely needs national inspiration
and a common leadership. Our public have come to
regard national days and national celebrations as
opportunities for diversion and entertainment, or for
temporary escape from the world of work and home-
truth. Her Majesty’s visit, though an occasion for
rejoicing, might also turn our thoughts, as a people,
to the responsibilities of self-government and nation-
hood.
We are young, we are imaginative, we are sport-
loving and leisure-loving, and we ask a great deal of
Nature and of political economy. We are wishful-
thinkers, as our high gambling figures show. We are
inclined to believe in political and economic fairy-tales ;
and for many years the sheep has been a good fairy to
us. Since the end of the war, when so many people
expected some delightful “new order” to arrive with
the signing of the armistice, we have been blessed with
seasons mostly good. Instead of working more hours
per week to make up for the waste caused by war we
have been working fewer. For almost eight years we
have drifted; and in New South Wales, the oldest
and most important industrial State in the Common-
wealth, we have maintained in office for 12 years a
brand of Government which has neither the skill nor
the force of character to run its own essential services
properly, let alone budget and legislate for the rest of
the State’s economy.
Queen Elizabeth, if she has any opportunity to
move quietly and unshepherded round the Australian
countryside and cities, will at the same time surely
marvel at the great works that have been carried out
in Australia’s past —not so much by the present nearly-
nine-million people, but by a generation when six
million and fewer was the total population.
Australia of thirty years ago still had among its
population many of the adventurous type who came
to this country with the simple object of developing its
natural wealth: miners or would-be miners, many of
them, and gamblers in a sense; but they built while
they gambled. Their sons followed in their footsteps.
Though we had no steel industry of consequence at
the conclusion of the 1914-18 war we were able to
swap our land products for overseas manufactures of
many kinds ; and what we still lacked we paid for with
borrowed money. Certainly this overseas borrowing
helped in the busy 1920’5, and we have had little of it
since. But the plain fact is that we have not been
producing enough ourselves during the past 12 years
to match the pace of development during the first
40 years of Federation. While not producing essential
goods at our old-time rate, we have been consuming
more. That has been, without any question, the fault
of our generation: .an over-emphasis on consumption,
a political—and popular—disparagement of hard work,
industry and thrift.
Our problems are simple—all too simple. We
are not working, as a people, unitedly enough, dili-
gently enough or willingly enough. There is a
tendency to regard work as an unnecessary evil. We
listen too readily to the plausible pressure-groups
enlisting our membership or to the newspaper that
panders to us. We don’t engage in enough political
soul-searching, and not enough of us have the courage
to speak out against what we know to be wrong. Trade-
unionism, still sectional in its outlook, rules the
country when a “Labor” Government is in office.
Sectionalism in one place creates sectionalism in
another. Political and industrial discord is the result.
The Queen’s visit may stimulate our thinking
and inspire sentiments not only of loyalty but also of
national unity and social integrity. We Australians
are of the modern world, and a young people. But
it will do us no harm if we pause a moment during
this momentous year of 1954 and look to the past for
guidance in our human relationships and our approach
to national tasks. This year we may have dil, and we
may have uranium. But we have not yet, even with
all the “Socialist” development of the past decade, the
conscious will to work together for a really great and
strong Australia. The Fathers of Federation spoke of
one people, one destiny. That again should be our
guiding principle, and no sectional, obstructive
minority should eyer be allowed to defeat it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fallen Arches and Puzzled
Elephants
Sydney’s last week of the pre-Royal-
visit era had many serio-comic sidelights.
There was the 14-hour struggle of the
business community of Crow’s Nest
junction in an unavailing attempt to
persuade their arch to arch —serious
enough to those concerned, but with all
the elements of a banana-skin tragedy
to interested onlookers. That little diffi-
culty was solved by the Railways Com-
missioner, who probably wishes all his
problems could be as easily disposed of.
Then there was the momentary fizz when
it leaked out that seating arrangements
for the Royal opening of Parliament had
been altered so that the wives of mem-
bers would be brought within range of
the television cameras. Everyone agreed
that it would be just too bad if hospital
patients, for whose benefit the television-
record was planned, were deprived of
the opportunity of seeing what M.L.A.s’
wives looked like.
Then came the late-doors issue of 500
tickets—er, invitations—to' the Royal
Ball, someone having discovered that
accommodation could be found for 2000
instead of 1500, and that there would
still be a space for dancing. Whether in
years to come second-edition tickets will
have the same collectors’ value as the
first edition only time can tell.
There were also stories of eleventh-
hour invitations to the garden-party and
of last-minute disappointments. This
angle was recorded for posterity by Emile
Mercier’s “Sun” cartoon of a suburban
dowager, complete with tiara, being told
by the postman “I’m afraid there is noth-
ing for you again, Mrs. Thrimble.”
Politically there were the determined
efforts of the “Herald,” “Telegraph”
and “Sun” -to bully or shame Premier
Cahill into making a definite statement
on alleged police bribery before the
arrival of the Queen, and there was the
allegation that Clive Evatt had reserved
seats for 30 of his constituents to view
the Royal Progress. Clive promptly
denied the charge in respect of 29 of
the seats.
Into this picture fitted most admirably
the story of the Scottish pipers who were
rehearsing in a church hall and were put
to flight by the sudden irruption of a
ton-and-a-half of inquisitive elephant,
who was subsequently—after the neigh-
borhood had been aroused and police
patrol-cars alerted —taken peacefully back
to his circus, still wondering about the
strange noise which had attracted him to
the church.
Manoeuvres in Berlin
The present scene in Berlin is calculated
to make the world dubious of the future.
It is clear that whether war is in the
offing or not the best that can be
expected is a long contest with the
insidious Communist conspiracy.
The Russians were allowed to choose
the agenda for the Berlin conference.
Like spoilt children or barbarians, they
always insist on having their way unless
threat of force deters them. They chose
as the first item “measures for reducing
international tension and the convening
of a Five-Power conference,” a move to
give a basis to forward the revolutionary
world “peace” propaganda and to make
the admission of Communist China,
which is fighting two of the Powers
involved, part of the council of great
nations. Mr. Molotov infers this pro-
posal, as Mr. Eden interpreted him, to
mean that a Five-Power and irresistible
bloc is to be formed to run the world —
Russia and China, of course, running
the bloc through a policy of obstruction
and intimidation. That-this conception
is flatly opposed to the principles of the
United Nations, of course, means nothing
to Russia.
The argument that Red China is in-
volved vitally in the question of the
German and Austrian peace treaties and
settlements is as fantastic as anything
that has ever come out of Moscow, since
a Red China did not exist when the war
was won, and the whole tone of the pro-
posal shows the direction in which Soviet
Union thought and policy is leaning—
towards Asiatic domination of the white
races as the preliminary to world revolu-
tion. If Japan, now infinitely more
powerful even after conquest than Red
China, were likely to run behind Moscow
the Kremlin would be demanding that it,
too, had recognition as a great Power.
And if the Indian Republic were to trend
a little further towards Communist
policy instead of shrinking further away
from it every day it also would be em-
braced. But unless these countries sympa-
thise with Communism they are out,
It is obvious that Molotov has come
not prepared for agreement but to find,
as usual, a method of splitting the Wes-
tern Allies, of offering France peace in
Indo-China and freedom from the heavy
military burden it entails there as the
price of the inclusion of China in the
conference.-
So far the success of the Russians has
been very limited. Both the United
Kingdom and the United States were firm
and unequivocal in their reply to the
proposal, but the remark of M. Bidault,
the French delegate, that he could not
see what a Five-Power conference would
achieve if there were no peace in Indo-
China, and that Communist China was
contributing to the war in that area,
sounded more like a broad hint than a
reproof.
One thing seems certain —-there can be
no settlement on Germany and Austria
except at a price that the Western Allies
cannot safely pay. Thus Russia will
achieve through the conference the con-
tinuance qf a state of affairs which is
vital to the progress of her revolution—
of chaos in the heart of Europe which
makes anything but an armed truce in
that continent certain for an unlimited
period. Matters cannot go on like that
for many more years without the dam
bursting somewhere or Europe returning
to the Dark Ages.
The Royal Progress
“For several miles along Dowling- and
Cleveland-streets it [the route of the
Queen’s procession through, Sydney to-
day] is lined with narrow-fronted, mostly
dirty, weather-stained, neglected tene-
ments.”
That is an extract from a feature
article in Melbourne “Herald” by the
paper’s special reporter on the Royal
tour, who travelled the Sydney route, in
the rehearsal. What the critics overlook
is that on this day the chief thing
is not to show the Queen Sydney
but to show Sydney the Queen. The
chosen route is about the best that could
be for that purpose.
What the Queen herself will see of
her city will be pretty representa-
tive. The Gothic sails up the world’s
loveliest waterway from the Heads to
Farm Cove, giving magnificent views of
the Harborside suburbs. Her Majesty
will make the drive round Farm Cove
to Fort Macquarie, then up the wide
and dignified Macquarie-street, around
Queen’s-square and along Elizabeth and
Park-streets, flanked on one side by the
city proper and on the other by Hyde
Park. Then into the broad and impres-
sive William-street, thence by Victoria-
street, passing St. Vincent’s Hospital,
across Oxford-street, through a short
stretch of crowded, old-fashioned houses
inhabited by people neither poor, de-
pressed nor dirty, and so into Dowling-
street.
There is rather less than a half-mile
of Dowling-street, with small houses
on one side and on the other the
broad expanse of Moore Park en-
hanced by attractive , playing-fields,
trees and and two fine High Schools.
Then comes the worst bit (if the Queen
is looking for worst bits and not stirred
by the royal welcome she’ll get), Cleve-
land-street. Less than 1 \ miles from
Dowling-street to City-road, this street
is simply a street of shops and houses in
a congested city area, which could be
better (but is certainly no worse) than
many similarly-placed streets in other
cities. But it is valuable for the Royal
progress as a long, almost straight street
in which many thousands can come to see
the Queen.
From City-road through to Parramatta-
road, back along Broadway, along
Qeorge-street and finally into the wide
and attractive Bridge-street, the route is
well planned. Again remembering the
chief object—to let as many as possible
see the Queen —the whole route could
hardly be bettered. Like his Sydney
mentors, this Melbourne critic is away off
the track, which possibly accounts for
his statement that “The Royal car will
be preceded by a party of 35, mounted
police at the gallop.” Yes, gallop!
One real cause for complaint is that
the Queen’s journeys while in Sydney are
practically confined to the south side of
the Harbor. This is an incomprehensible
blunder, and it’s no wonder the hand of
the party-politician is suspected. Even
the chance to repair it, by simply taking
her Majesty to Hornsby by road when she
takes train to Newcastle, has been
ignored. Strange how inflexible people
dressed in a little brief authority on
occasions like this can be!
Realities of Anzus
The announcement that Japanese tech-
nicians would be included in an Ameri-
can team to survey Australian South
Pacific territories, to be undertaken for
defence purposes under the Anzus Pact,
throws light on what lies behind the
pact.
It is strange that after the intensive
operations of the last war it should be
necessary for a U.S. survey-team to
operate in the New Guinea sea area and
parts of the New Guinea mainland and
New Britain. And doubly strange that
this has to be done because Australia
cannot make the survey without assist-
ance. One would have imagined that
if Australia, whose atomic, air and naval
defence is so closely integrated with
United Kingdom defence that it is im-
possible to say where the higher level
of British control ends and that of Aus-
tralia begins, needed help its Govern-
ment would turn to the United Kingdom.
It may be true, as Mr. Menzies has
said, that discussions are still “going
on” about the use of Japanese tech-
nicians ; but it is odd that it should ever
have become a matter even of dis-
cussion, especially in the face of the
opposition of Mr. Hasluck, who, it is
said, has insisted on security conditions
both as to Japanese and Americans.
Parliament should have a full-dress
debate on the Anzus Pact and find out
what it is all about.
The Royal Fleece
One debt which Australia owes to the
Royal family, usually forgotten, is for
the Merino sheep.
It has generally been taught that the first
Merinos were imported by John Mac-
arthur from the Cape of Good Hope in
1797, but apart from the fact that Cap-
tain Henry Waterhouse, and not Mac-
arthur, was the importer, it is certain
that these were not true Merinos, but
heavy-bodied Dutch crosses only rela-
tively fine-woolled.
The first true Spanish Merinos to come
to this country were brought here by Mac-
arthur in the Argo in 1805. They consisted
of five rams and one ewe. Macarthur
bought them in the summer of 1804, at
one of the sales held occasionally to
distribute sheep from the Royal flocks of
King George the Third at Kew. The
first purchase was a ram suffering from
temporary “deprivation of sight”—a
sickness reported by the King’s shepherd
to be “not uncommon in the sheep at
that time of year.” He had cut 31b. 4oz.
at the last shearing, and was knocked
down for £6 15s. Macarthur bought
seven other sheep, the highest-priced a
four-tooth ram which had cut 71b. 20z.,
for which he paid 27 guineas. For the
next-best, another blind animal, he paid
22 guineas.
At that period a statute forbade the
export of sheep from England, which
had been much in the same position in
respect of the world’s wool as Australia
now is until Spain had scooped the fine-
wool business. Sir Joseph Banks had
introduced the Merino into England and
the Royal flocks, and, as a bitter enemy
of Macarthur, he did his best to prevent
the animals going to Australia, though
“at last, when his aid was needless, he
evinced a strong desire to promote and
patronise the introduction of the Merino
sheep into this continent.”
The matter was got over through the
issue of a Treasury warrant immediately
after Banks had left the office of Lord
Camden, to whom he had fulminated
against the transaction. The fact that
Macarthur took with him as partner
Walter Davidson, nephew of Sir Walter
Farquhar, the Royal physician, seems
to suggest that somewhere in the back-
ground Royal influence had been on the
side of Australia.
Thus Australia owes the foundation of
its fine-quality fleeces to an ancestor of
the Queen, as it owes many other early
gifts.
Migration and Employment
Final nail in the coffin of the unemploy-
ment-pool story peddled by Dr. Evatt
and his no-longer-merry men has been
driven by Immigration Minister Holt’s
statement that next year’s target for
migrants will be 100,000, compared with
80,000 for the current year; even this
year’s rate of influx is to be stepped-up
to 90,000 per annum for thb January-
June period. That the Government
should be prepared, in an election year,
to saddle itself with the responsibility of
finding work for an increased number of
New Australians is significant of its
confidence in the soundness of the
country’s economy.
There is good reason for this confi-
dence. The year 1953 opened with
42,033 persons in receipt of unemploy-
ment-relief ; by its close the number was
down to 12,914. The economy was thus
able to absorb the year’s natural increase
in wage-earners and the considerable
work-force represented by 73,000
migrants and still reduce the number of
persons on unemployment-relief by
30,000.
In emphasising the important part
migrants have played in national develop-
ment in recent years, Mr. Holt told the
Citizenship Convention that in six post-
war years the net addition to the work-
force from the native-born was only
about 85,000, whereas 340,000 had been
added by immigration. The first figure
seems extraordinarily low, with births
now totalling about 200,000 a year, but
it must be remembered that additions to
the work-force come from those born in
the mid-1930’5; the low birth-rate of
those years has to be balanced against
the deaths and retirements of today.
Australia’s population is now growing
at a faster rate than at any period since
gold-rush days. When the first Duke
{Continued on next page )
Queen of Australia
Never were Sydney s February grasses green
As where they await their passing Fairy Queen;
Never were Sydney flowers so fair as those
That border the paths of the visiting English rose;
Never had Sydney's ageing stone such camouflages
As flutter and shine for the heiress of the ages;
Never have politicians fought more hard for places
Than to enchant your Majesty with their graces:
Such is your spell On flowers and stones and men
That Sydney mortals never may see again.
Your selfless father s memory, and your mother s charm
Make our midsummer welcome much more warm,
Queen of the snows, of the world's uttermost parts,
Of day and night at once, and Queen of hearts;
Queen of the dreams of all your sovereignty,
How they would live, and whom desire to be;
The living promise of their future fame
Whose names will be forgotten in your name:
Such is your spell on flowers and stones and men
That Sydney mortals never may see again.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


of Edinburgh visited this country in 1867
the population of the six colonies was
just over 1£ million. It had grown to
2\ million when “the two Princes*
(Albert and George) came out in 1881,
and when one of them returned 20 years
later to open the first Commonwealth
Parliament there were 3| million Aus-
tralians. In 1927, when George VI (then
Duke of York) came out for the transfer
of Parliament to Canberra, our numbers
had grown to 6| million, and when the
Queen visits the Federal capital later this
month she will no doubt be told that we
expect to pass the nine-million mark
before the year is out. And, party politics
being taboo during her Majesty’s visit,
not even Dr. Evatt will dispute that
there’ll be jobs for all who are fit and
willing.
POLITICAL POINTS
Doc. Evatt is rapidly qualifying for
the title of the Abominable Showman.
• •
To mark the Queen’s arrival the
N.S.W. Trotting Club has granted an
“amnesty” to all those it has found
necessary to suspend or disqualify!
1 • •
Senator McKenna is determined to
throw as much troubled water as he can
on Australia’s oil prospects. He accuses
the Menzies Government of selling-out
to foreign oil interests, and he views as
mighty suspicious the fact that several oil
companies began to build refineries in
Australia “on the eve of the discovery of
oil.” If he’s right in thinking the oil
companies had foreknowledge that oil
was about to be struck, perhaps he can
explain why Anglo-Iranian, which has
concentrated its drilling activities in New
Guinea, chose Kwinana (W.A.) as the
site of its refinery, while Caltex, with a
four-fifths interest in Exmouth Gulf,
picked Botany Bay.
• •
The reshuffle of seats to get politicians’
wives into the eyes of the television-
cameras for the Queen’s opening of
N.S.W. Parliament caused almost as big
a flutter as the N.S.W. Government’s
reshuffle of electoral seats.
- • •
According to Queensland A.W.U.
president J. Bukowski “any ‘Labor’
politician who puts personal leisure be-
fore his duty to the electors is taking an
enormous risk.” Still, there are plenty
of people who believe in living
dangerously.
• •
Victorian Country party is putting up
candidates against the sitting Liberal
members in Indi, McMillan and Wim-
mera at the Federal election in May,
There were three-cornered fights for all
three seats in 1949, but in 1951 the field
was left to the Libs. On that occasion
the winning margins were Indi, 6514;
McMillan, 4420, and Wimmera, 9073 ; so
the private war between the two Gov-
ernment parties isn’t likely to give any
of the seats to “Labor.” But it won’t
improve relations on the Government
side.
• * •
A theory put forward in Malaya is
that the hairy and rather apelike crea-
tures who appeared out of the jungle of
Perak recently are Diggers who took to
the bush in 1942 when the Japanese
drove down the peninsula. “If,” said the
theorists, “they had been in the jungle
for more than ten years you would ex-
pect them to be crazy.” The theory
is likely to be accepted in Sydney, where
the general opinion is that anyone who
lives in the bush is crazy.
• •
N. S. Wales warAvidows are seeking
exemption from Cahill’s Dog-collar Act,
and an R.S.L. man, supporting their case,
said it was a disgrace that the Govern-
ment had included war-widows in its
bill; they: should receive the same bene-
fits as returned-soldiers. The truth is the
whole Act is a disgrace to a free com-
munity, but returned men aren’t receiv-
ing the benefit of exemption by any act
of grace on the part of the Cahills. It
is just that they couldn’t be brought
within its provisions without infringing
the Federal preference law.
• •
Alexander Wilson, dead in Melbourne
last week, spent "the years from 1946 to
1952 in the peaceful atmosphere of Nor-
folk Island, but in the early years of
War II when, as Independent Country-
party member for Wimmera, he held the
balance of power at Canberra, his life
was far from peaceful. The climax came
in October, 1941, when he crossed the
House and voted with “Labor” to defeat
Fadden’s Budget. A. W. Coles crossed
with him, and their defection meant the
end of the Government and the begin-
ning of the Curtin-Chifley reign. The
two Independents constituted Curtin’s
“majority” until the 1943 election, after
which “Labor” no longer had need to
rely on their support. In 1946 Coles
was appointed chairman of the Aus-
tralian National Airlines Commission
and “Wimmera” Wilson became Adminis-
trator of Norfolk Island.
• •
The sad plight of the three baronets
who don’t want to be baronets but can’t
escape their destiny is trifling beside
that which Quintin Hogg found himself
in when the death of his father in 1950
made him the second Viscount Hailsham.
Hogg had been Conservative M.P. for
Oxford since 1938, and had no desire
to give up his Parliamentary career, but
succession to the peerage meant his
transfer to the Lords. He appealed to
the then Prime Minister, Attlee, for
Parliamentary action to enable him to
retain his seat in the Commons, but
Clem wouldn’t play. The new peer went
reluctantly to the Lords.
• •
Professor W. P. Rogers, who handles
zoology at Adelaide Varsity, talking at the
Anzaas show in Canberra on parasites:
The final requirement for success as a
parasite is that the organism should develop
mechanisms whereby the chances of spread
of infection from animal to animal should
%$>
ds
' «tr S
o S
B s
'Vl
iWlilW
&
7?
VV'
CITY
council
SMEUS
STATE BANQUET
be increased. Primarily, the parasite must
produce a large number of infective agents
to achieve this, but the ability of infective
agents to survive unfavorable conditions
outside the host is also of great importance.
Rogers was not discussing politics, but,
as an example of Red-ant methods, this
seems a pretty good summing-up.
' • •
Ask a Sydney Communist to see a film
on Nelson and Trafalgar and he’d prob-
ably snort something about imperialist
wars. Yet “Admiral Ushakov,” which
tells of the victory of an Imperial Russian
admiral over the Turks in 1791, is boosted
in the Communist “Tribune” as “an out-
standing historic film in beautiful Soviet
color.” Presumably it has to be viewed
through rose-red-colored glasses.
• •
At its Brisbane convention the A.W.U.
passed a resolution affirming its support
of compulsory unionism. A South Aus-
tralian delegate who spoke in support of
the motion said “Our principle is that we
refuse to work with non-unionists,” He
should have added “We also, in some
cases, refuse to allow non-unionists to
become unionists by joining the A.W.U.”
• •
“Labor” leaders and A.C.T.U. heads
met in Canberra in the belief that, “by
concentrating on three essentials,”
“Labor” could win the next Federal
elections. The three essentials:
An extremely strong electoral organisa-
tion, with close attention to marginal seats.
Strong backing by the unions.
A unanimous and positive policy.
The first two seem assured. As to the
third —hmmm.
• •
f
Hearing that the Country party had
suggested to the Libs, that three-cornered
contests should be avoided in the com-
ing Federal elections, “S. M. Herald”
sought the opinion of Jeff Bate, M.H.R.
for Macarthur (N.S.W.), and reported
him as saying that the Libs, had erred
in contesting Gwydir. When this was
published Bate promptly repudiated it
and said he Was in favor of his party
trying to capture seats held by the
Country party. It then came out that
the reporter deputed to contact him by
telephone had been connected instead with
his father, H. J. Bate, former M.L.A. for
the South Coast, whose views on this
subject were entirely opposed to Jeff’s.
Just another case of the wrong Bate!
• •
Adelaide has altered its traffic rules
and adopted the into-the-red right-hand
turn, long the practice in N. S. Wales;
early reports are entirely satisfactory.
Melbourne is still sticking to the primi-
tive method of pulling over to the left
and taking two bites at the cherry.
Frank Forde, former High Commis-
sioner to Canada, former Minister for
this and that under Scullin, Curtin and
Chifley, M.H.R. for Capricornia
1922-46, deputy-leader of Federal
“Labor” 1932-46, six-days Prime Minister
1945, who has recently been acting as
State A.L.P. organiser in Queensland,
has now been confirmed in the job. This
is probably the end of talk of Frankie
attempting a comeback in Federal politics.
• •
Adelaide, like Sydney, is scrapping its
trams. According to the latest report of
its Tramways Trust, they are to be
abandoned “progressively and as rapidly
as buses can be got.” That doesn’t mean
next week ; something like a 10-year pro-
gramme is envisaged, and the trust is
placing its faith in single-decker diesel
buses, with trolley-buses on some routes.
• " •
“In the ACT”: Prime Minister
Menzies and Frank McKenna, of his
department in Canberra, should be
highly pleased by Ivor Hele’s winning
of the Archibald prize; they picked him
to paint the scene in the Senate Chamber
when the Queen opens Parliament on
February 15. Hele wasn’t an easy bird
to snare for the job, but he’s enthusiastic
about it, and should turn out something
at least as good as the Mclnnes painting
of the 1927 opening by the Queen’s
father, then Duke of York. This pic-
tpre, which hangs in King’s Hall, is a
good example of how the portraits of
individuals can be combined with a fine
impression of an occasion. Most mem-
bers on the Government side are recog-
nisable ; the Opposition, with its backs to,
the artist, did not fare so well. The posi-
tion which Hele will occupy is still an
official secret. He paid one visit to Can-
berra, to find the Senate festooned in
scaffolding and sacking while the painters
and cleaners were at work, but he’s ex-
pected to spend quite a bit of time in the
Chamber before the opening making
color and other notes. While the Queen
is reading her speech Hele will be busily
at work —and he’ll be at work for a long
time after that before the painting is
completed.
• •
Brisbane Trades and Labor Council
is asking the Queensland Industrial
Court to increase the State basic wage by
35., the equivalent of the c.-0.-l. increase
for the December quarter. The State
wage is already 4s. higher than the
Federal; the sum asked for would make
the disparity 7s.
• •
In a cost-of-living debate in the House
of Commons, Food Minister Major
Lloyd George explained “that there was
no disagreement in the House that there
could be an unlimited roof to subsidies.
They were on common ground on the
ceiling,”
• •
A horrified shudder ran round the
A.W.U. conference-room in Brisbane
when a delegate suggested triennial in-
stead of annual conferences on the
grounds that there was nothing on the
current agenda which could not have
been adequately dealt with by the
branches. Describing the conference as
a circus which provided a paid holiday
for the delegates, he said that for this
reason he expected opposition to his
motion. He got it; annual conventions
will continue,
• •
“Labor” has retained control of the
Sydney County Council, which means
that the chairman’s salary will continue
to be £2OOO a year for what one ex-chair-
man claims amounts to five hours’ work
a week. At one time the council con-
trolled the generating of Sydney’s elec-
tricity, now it supervises distribution
only, yet “Labor” increased the allow-
ance by £5OO and refuses to consider a
reduction.
• •
Westralia’s coal-production, which has
been rising steadily since the war, reached
a new peak last year with an output of
888,113 tons, valued at almost £3 mil-
lion. Opencuts accounted for nearly half
the tonnage.
• •
Who really owns Gibraltar? Britain
has held it for 250 years ; Spain had
control for 202 years before that and the
Moors for most of the preceding eight
centuries. Perhaps it should be handed
over to the Riffs.
• ■ •
An unexpected feature of post-war
immigration is revealed in a survey issued
by the Queensland Bureau of Industry
—Queensland, with the greatest potenti-
alities for expansion of all the States,
has the lowest net-migration rate. Wes-
tralia has the highest, with Tasmania,
South Australia, Victoria and New South
Wales following in that order. One rea-
son suggested is the lack of a direct ship-
ping service, but Tasmania’s high place
in the list discounts that. Looks as if
Gair and Co. had better examine their
policies,* instead of complaining that
other States are filching their tradesmen.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
HOW pleasing it is that the triumphal
arches now sprouting over Sydney
streets look so much like replicas of the
Harbor Bridge—it gives me the happy
impression that the Bridge has had a lot
of baby bridges in honor of the Royal
visit.
And rosy-morn petunias growing at
the feet of the poplars in Bridge-street,
where never before flowered anything
but the cigarette-butt, the occasional
fallen drunk and the early-morning
garbagecan. What a lot of fakes we all
are in Sydney!: —“MacHoots.*
/ • • •
“Maje”: To the Queen’s garden-
party! A lass had some family business
"No. I'm sorry, I cant ask him to come to the phone. I'm not
speaking to him any more.”
to discuss with a relative, one of the
boys in blue on guard at his Excellency’s
front-gate. As the matter was, of great
urgency, she took a risk and, contrary
to regs., paid him a quick visit. The
inevitable happened —as they stood talk-
ing the sentry spotted some top police
brass heading his way at rate rapid. With
a quick “Hop in there, sign the book
and buzz off,” he effectively rid himself
“Bawbee”: Complaints about the cost
of decorations for the Royal visit strike
me as mistaken. We don’t really put up
the flags for the Queen, who would
probably much prefer to visit Sydney
incognito and go to the beaches, but for
ourselves. The Queen is the visible sym-
bol of the nation, and we are the nation ;
so we put up flags and arches for our-
selves, and cheer ourselves like mad;
and since we’ve done it all to
make a most useful and in-
spiring national festivity for
ourselves I don’t see how any-
body can reasonably com-
plain of the cost —especially
as, spread over the lot of us,
it’s infinitesimal.
“Spokeshave”: Surprises
prepared foj* the Royal
couple by Melbourne’s City
Fathers include one that’s to
be sprung on their awed eyes
when they enter Elizabeth-
street. It consists of some
hundreds of plaques of
crowns, kangaroos and emus
stamped out in metal and
hung on the overhead electric
tramstays. They stretch in
two unbroken lines from
. Flinders-street station to the
Royal Melbourne, and were apparently
designed in the one burst of inspiration
by the machine that executed them. This
is the first example of what the authori-
ties are confecting, and more hypnotic
effects can be confidently expected.
“Archaen”: There’s novelty and fresh-
ness in how Adelaide —living up to its
name as the Garden Gity—is to be
decorated for the Royal visit. Every
gardener employed by the City Council,
the Botanic Garden staff and thousands
of private gardeners are busy on raising
a record number of blooms. Massed
banks of flowers will be placed wherever
* possible, to be renewed each night. If
that doesn’t lick all the three-ply columns,
plaster copies of the Royal cipher and
fluttering strings of pennons, it’ll be
because a searing heatwave or an acute
water-shortage has ruined the blooms
just before the event.
“Uco”: Cabled stories of the pictur-
esque career of the master-mariner Duke
of Montrose mentioned that “during one
voyage to Australia the Duke was paid
Is. a month as a seaman.” There is in
that an implication of hardship which I
very much doubt fits the facts. Under the
British Merchant Shipping Act no vessel
not licensed to carry passengers is
allowed to do so. While this is a very
sound principle, it often happens that
the owners of a cargo vessel may wish
to send someone, not an officer or sea-
man, from one port to another. The
person may be a director of the com-
pany, an important client, or just some-
one with a persuasive tongue who wants
an unusual trip. To comply with the
law he is signed-on as a member of
the crew and in the wages column in
the ship’s articles Ijie rate Is. a month
is entered, ft’s my guess that the Duke
just went along for the ride.
z*
“Alma”: From the West Country of
England the new bloke’s brought some
of the area’s sayings, as well as its slow.
“ D’you mind giving this a blow?"
pleasant voice. But he’s fast becoming
Australianised. “It do make I feel queer,”
he used to say of the hot winds that blew
dust and heat across our plains. Now
it’s “It do make I feel crook.”
“Kerba”: The New Year must have
been marched in with appropriate mili-
tary honors at the Soldiers’ Memorial
Hall, Gerringong (N.S.W.); for a full-
week after the ceremony the flagpole
“wore” the colors hauled up that night.
And any diehard prepared to argue
against the “wearing” business would
have two-to-one against him. Possibly
a garbage-tin inscribed' “Be Tidy” could
not be. “worn,” but facsimiles of the
other two articles are, I am reliably
informed, habitually worn. Just how
such items were acquired by revellers of
a sex that does not wear such garments
is a question that has no apparent answer,
but the singular article of apparel jogged
my inventive brain. The way its twin
openings caught the wind I should have
no difficulty in selling thousands to the
R.A.A.F. A pilot might overlook the
ordinary windsock-indicator, but I can’t
believe that Air Force type would
fail to notice my patent.
*l* Z*
“Sackfair”: All tender-hearted film-
fans must sorrow over the lot of the
Hollywood star. To-day—on top of the
world; to-morrow —oblivion, complete
and impenetrable; just one paradoxical
way left to make the public realise he
is still alive —to die. But it is for a
different reason that my heart haemor-
rhages for Victor Mature. According to
report he tried to join an exclusive club,
but was blackballed because “Actors are
not accepted as members.” His reply
bashed down the barrier: “There are| at
least five million movie goers in the
U.S.A. who are prepared to swear I’m
not an actor.” But now look what’s
happened! Following his performances
in “The Robe” all the critics are dazedly,
but unanimously, agreeing that Mature
has become an actor. It’s tough luck,
all right—looks like the old drum-out
from his club.
.* * ❖
“F.S.”: Albert Namatjira is the first
Australian native artist to achieve an
international reputation —also possibly
the first Australian artist to be paid the
compliment of attracting the attention
of the forger to any extent. There may
be a few forged Streetons and Hilders
about, but only odd examples, and I
doubt if anybody would have the tech-
nical facility to copy Norman Lindsay.
Corot, despite his extreme delicacy, has
always been the mark of the forger; there
are said to be 5000 more Corots in the
U.S.A. than that artist ever painted.
Namatjira, however, would be simple
enough to copy—some of the work of
his pupils is almost indistinguishable
from the master’s.
Zt ♦> z*
“Skem”: That “Sea of Beer” writer
(B. 13/l/’54) was definitely on-course.
Recently lunched with the g.-m. of a
large refrigeration company in Mel-
bourne. He bought a pre-lunch drink
for myself and colleague, but excused
himself on the ground that an investi-
gation into accidents in his own sheet-
metal shop pointed to liquid lunches at
a near-by pub. Placing the pub out of
bounds to all staff effected an immedi-
ate improvement, and he considers that
what’s good enough for the boys is good
enough for the boss.
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Bogaduck”: If anyone asked me to
name an idea for which the whole civi-
lised world is waiting, I’d nominate a
fool-proof invention for preventing car-
stealing. Best in the line I’ve struck
was on my old 1926 Dodge. It was a
lock on the gearbox, fitted with a spring
cover. When I left the bus unattended,
I merely turned a key in that lock. Then
the gears couldn’t be engaged until it
was unlocked again. That bus was never
stolen, though once I found the lock
bunged-up with chewing-gum, another
time with a bit of tin, and the third time
the gear-lever had been broken off by
somebody who refused to believe that
such a device couldn’t be put out of
action if you Only heaved hard enough.
“Chevroford”: Wodonga (Vic.) is a
fair-sized town, but it had to wait till
the other day, to celebrate the birth of
its first baby for over 20 years. This
phenomenon wasn’t due to any lack of
fertility in the resident population, but
to the fact that expectant mothers were
always conveyed to' hospitals in other
districts. A £445,000-hospital of
Wodonga’s own has just been opened,
♦> * ♦>
“Dicky”: As the boss squeaked past
in a particularly agonised-sounding pair
of bluchers, one hand came out with
the usual remark. “Pay for ’em!”
snorted the boss. “It’s not that they’re
screaming about. They know the price
of a beast, and the tanning of his hide,
and they know what work went into ’em.
It’s what I had to pay for the flamin’
things that’s worrying’ ’em!”
♦l* ♦♦♦
“Columba”: Several years’ observa-
tion of preachers in action in our kirk
have convinced me that, consciously or
unconsciously, the right hand raised and
the right side of the pulpit are used to
convey good and uplifting sentiments;
while a glance or a turn to the left and
downwards invariably denotes the
sinister. One histrionic Scot, when on
the subject of Satan, would hurl him-
self to the left and visibly struggle witn
something just below the pulpit and our
disappointed gaze.
WELCOME, OUR QUEEN!
[Dear “Bulletin,” —I have written these
few verses for you; not that 1 am unaware
that you have lots of people in Australia
who could write a much better welcome
to our little Lady, but I like the quaintness
of it coming from “over here.”—W.O.]
Now may the days be bright, but shitdy,
Now be our welcome leal and true ;
Now we- would greet you, our Royal
Lady,
Now we would offer our love to you.
Snow-white sails upon Sydney Harbor,
Ferny cliffs on the mountains blue,
Bush from the Namoi to far Nullarbor,
All the wealth of our land to you.
Planes that will carry you far to nor'ward.
Cars that will hurry you south and west,
Loyalty leading you always forward,
Love making sure of your needful rest.
Townsmen to gather in streets to cheer
you,
Bushmens cooees to speed you by ;
Crowds • content to be standing near
you —
Holding that glimpse till the day they dje.
Grassy plains that the white flocks cover;
Sandhills red where the cattle roam;
Horses ! For you, the true horselover.
Dreaming of favorites left at home.
Here shall your Majesty learn our story
Day after day from our shifting scene ;
We in return will have sensed the glory
Wrapped like a robe round our lovely
Queen.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


'T’HE teachers’ conference in Melbourne
produced one good story. Teacher
told class that if the inspector asked them
about the reign of King Alfred, they
should not mention the burned cakes,
as there were other historical facts about
his Majesty which were more important.
They were duly asked what they knew
about Alfred. The brightest girl in the
class volunteered the information that
the monarch knocked on the door of a
cottage, was admitted by a woman and
the door was shut, but she was not
permitted to say what happened after
that.—“C.B.”
❖ *** ♦>
“Swelpme”: Touching a recent men-
tion of the “Cumberland Argus,” to me
the paper’s finest hour dates back about
26 years, to when it reported a certain
meeting of Fairfield (N.S.W.) Municipal
“But I can't swim!”
Council. Alderman Bell had not
Approved of Alderman Clancy for some
time ; this night the smouldering ire burst
into flame. Bell leapt to his elderly feet,
shadow-sparred wildly, and shouted:
‘We’ll settle this in the bull-ring!”
Clancy, too, was ageing, but he was still
a. husky lump. He stood up, looking
slightly bewildered and uncertain as to
What was expected of him. Alderman
Bell let loose a wild ’un. It clarified the
Whole position. Faced with the option
Of hitting or being hit, Clancy hit. The
challenger recovered after a variety of
devices known to boxing-seconds had
been applied. Saturday’s “Cumberland
Argus” came out with headlines;
“CLANCY OVERFLOWS. RINGS
THE BELL WITH ONE SHOT.”
* ❖ *
“Kelms”: That retort, “Are you
referring to his Majesty the King?” which
a gush-correspondent alleged was made
by the then Princess Elizabeth when in
Canada, has appeared in a Perth daily,
and has a familiar ring, A similar reply
was credited to the Prince of Wales about
the time of War I; and Princess
Margaret is alleged to have chided a too-
familiar acquaintance in much the same
words. It’s one of those legends that
are handed down, losing something at
each telling, until they finally appear in
syndicated slush and are laughed out of
existence.
❖ *** ❖
“Bo”: The vinegary associate had
just had a putting lesson from the club’s
pro., and the others asked her how she
had got on. “How else do you think?”
she snapped. “I’d never do any good
with an ignorant fool like him. I know
I’ve been getting off the line, but he
told me to stand so that my left toe, the
ball just in front of it, and the pin on
the left would form a right-angle. A
right- angle, mind you, in that position!
That would make a left- angle. But you
can’t tell him —he thinks he knows
everything!”
* *
“Ah Lee”: He’d promised to take her
out that evening, and that he’d be home
punctually at six. The club intervened
between intentions and time, and he
lobbed home at eight, in expected con-
dition. Feeling, in the face of his recep-
tion, he had to say something, he ven-
tured: “I’m terribly sorry, dear. The
least I cquW have done was to phone
you about being late.” The reply was
devastating: “You did — twice!”
❖ * ❖
“Macca”: If American newspapers fol-
lowed Sydney afternoon dailies in their
premature farewell to Hemingway, the
author will at least know now what his
countrymen really think of him. Fortu-
nately, as with Mark Twain, the-report
of his death was grossly exaggerated.
+> *i*
“Fler”; Rin-tin-tin, Lassie and Rudolph
the Reindeer have stood the test of time,
but as stark stirring front-page news none
of these has come within a bull’s roar
of Jimmy Carruthers’s tapeworm.
Specialists consult, doctors diagnose, but
Jimmy’s worm stays put. Regrettably,
while Jimmy’s worm continues to fill
the news-columns, we are denied news of
equally important happenings abroad.
What great artiste hit upon the happy
thought of wallpapering her bedroom
with old marriage-licences? What star
boasts the biggest bust? If we are to be
well-informed it is obvious we must do
something about Jimmy’s worm, Dorothy
Parker gives a practical plan in her
report of the Movie Queen who finally
took a few minutes off to have a baby.
On the due date the Nation paused;
friends and fans. Press and radio, all
were agog awaiting the Happy Event.
The hour came—and passed: days
passed; weeks passed. No soap. Finally
from one overstrained well wisher came
a telegram: “Strongly advise you to
drop the whole project” May I com-
mend this viewpoint to all news editors
in respect to Jimmy’s worm?
£♦ ■<&
“Pip Tok”; Bullock-teams (B.
30/12/’53) were not the only cause of
“the narrow, winding nature of Sydney’s
streets.” The blame must be shared by
Major Francis Grose and other officers
of the N.S.W. Corps, who became con-
“Like it better than the dummy?”
tributing factors long before the first
bullock-team trudged from Sydney Cove
to Brickfield Hill. Governor Phillip had
approved of plans for a well-laid-out
township, but Grose, 'who was Lieu-
tenant-Governor and ruler of the colony
for about 18 months after Phillip’s de-
parture, was overindulgent to the mili-
tary officers in the matter of land grants.
He allowed them to select land as they
pleased, without any reference to Phillip’s
design for town-planning. Hence the
nature of the streets —in the older paft of
the city, at all events.
❖ ♦> *
“Curate’s Egg”: Mutilation of effigies
in the hope that the originals would
suffer injuries in the regions maltreated
on the’dummy (B. 30/12/’53) seems to
have been a practice common to Nordic,
Celtic, Latin and Eastern races. Records
of English and Scottish witchcraft trials
bristle with charges of this form of mal-
feasance. The test of the defendant was
beautifully simple and logical. The
prisoner’s person was subjected to in-
jury in the same quarter in which the
flesh-and-hlood victim and the damaged
effigy fiad suffered. Those reacting to the
pain stimulus as applied by the court’s
official witch-hunters were deemed inno-
cent, those remaining insensible were
adjudged guilty. The absence of reaction
was almost certainly due to a form of
hysterical paralysis induced by fear,
similar to the state of genuine shell-
shock victims who appear insensible to
the piercing of their limbs with pins.
“J. 8.”: Elegant variations (B. 6/1/’54)?
On the walls of two neat brick outr
buildings behind a roadside cafe on the
Bunbury Highway (W.A.) the usual
laconic notices were missing. But in
their stead, one whitewashed wall
sported a colorful and spirited painting
of a bantam rooster, while that of the
adjacent building was adorned with the
portrait of a demure little hen. Anyway,
it’s a neat method of avoiding the
dilemma of an Australian travelling in
pre-war Germany. Rushing up to an
Englishwoman tourist, he implored fran-
tically, “For heaven’s sake. Madam, tell
me quickly—am I Herren or Damen?”
❖
“Cauboy”; One of the cherished
assumptions of the films is that there is
such a thing as love eternal. Went to
see “From Here to Eternity.” About a
U.S. detachment in Honolulu just before
Pearl Harbor, the picture is actually
more like an illustration to the Kinsey
report on sexual behavior in the human
female; one got the impression that the
Yank Army was in Hawaii for the ex-
press purpose of showing how right the
doctor was in his statistical analysis. All
these affairs resulted in despair, disillu-
sionment and sometimes murder. Yet
every character in the picture clings to
his conception that there is such a thing as
love eternal —although, his experience
gives it the lie on every conceivable
occasion.
* * *
“Findy”: A Sydney columnist was
surprised to find that “to send a corpse
from another State to Sydney by the
Kanimbla costs two-and-a-half times the
salbon fare for a live passenger.” He
needn’t have singled out the Kanimbla
—that is the standard rate on all ships
and has been for at least half a century;
probably for a long time before that.
Don’t know who worked it out in the
first place, but the reason for the high
cost of transporting the dead by sea is
found in the superstition of shellbacks
in the sailing-ship days ; it was considered
bad luck to sail with a corpse. To avoid
trouble the body had to be stowed in a
plain packing-case so that the crew would
not know. For the same reason the
corpse is never listed as such on the
ship’s manifest. Instead it appears under
some such alias as “one case of natural-
history specimens.”
*❖ ' *
“Macnell”: We were shocked at the
treachery when we heard it: But the
officer-of-the-day’s young, inexperienced
and forcedly grim face brooked no
questioning. So all libertymen, lined-up
for shore-going inspection, opened their
bags. It was Cooky they were after, of
course, and Cooky knew it. Nonchal-
antly he stepped back to the guardrail,
nonchalantly he made to open his bulg-
ing suitcase on the top wire, and with a
well-feigned imprecation, he dropped it
over the side. He’ll go a long way, that
young officer. Immediately he ordered
a diver dressed. All hands waited while'
the air-bubbles wandered up and down
the ship’s side as Darky made his search
for the butter, salmon and spuds. And
all hands were unanimous in judging
that Cooky was properly cooked this
time. When, however, Darky returned to
upper-deck air, dripping, empty-handed
and muttering about the thickness of
the harbor mud, all of us registered relief
—except Cooky, who remained calm
throughout. He had good enough reason
—as we learned later. Darky was one
of his best customers.
* ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Spoke”: The epidemic of flying-
saucer reports which has broken out in
Melbourne recalls the extraordinary
number of circumstantial reports of
people who saw the Southern CroSs,
when that plane was lost between Sydney
and Melbourne. It was observed by one
householder just missing his chimney at
St. Kilda, a farmer driving along the
foreshore at Geelong saw it emerge from
a cloud and plunge into Port Phillip, and
it was preceived battling along over
townships as far apart as Castlemaine
and Orbost. A cartoonist-friend of
mine, who is such an acute observer that
he can look at an automobile or a trac-
tor as it passes and reproduce it on paper
a month later, saw the plane swooping
low over his garden, and, thinking it was
going to crash, yelled to his wife and
family to look out. It turned out that
the plane, of the same class as the
Southern Cross, passed, not on the day
of the Southern Cross’s absence, but the
week before. He was good at objects
but was notorious for missing appoint-,
ments.
THE RIGHT APPROACH
“It becomes at times almost painfully obvious
that some brides have been imperfectly tutored
on wedding-day etiquette. ’ —Sydney “Daily
Telegraph
Never gallop towards the altar
On your way to fix the halter.
On anxiety
And propriety
Take a grip.
It's unlikely, while you’re tramping
Up the aisle, he’ll be decamping.
Show how clever
You are. Never
“Rush the kip” I
When from vestry you come tripping.
Don’t do overhead hand-gripping
Like a boxer
When he knocks a-
Nother out.
Though a victory you’ve been notching,
Do be modest. They’ll be watching.
It’s a wedding
That you’re heading,
Not a bout.
You should not, in your elation,
Yield to peals of cacchination
Like a jacko.
Nor cry “Whacko !” —
That’s all right
When you’re later congregating
With your girl-friends and relating
How you landed
Him and branded
Him, the wight.
It’s not only, though, in crowing
That restraint you must be showing:
Should some matter
Bid your natter
Don’t be tough —
At least, thafs recommended
Till the honeymoon has ended.
For a missus
Surely this is
Soon enough ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Given the Under-Secretaryship (one
of the highest posts in the South Aus-
tralian public service), M. A. F. Pearce
(“George” to his intimates) could be
called the Great Organiser. Appointed
chairman of the S.A. Savings Bank in
1948, until his selection as State Direc-
tor of the Royal tour he was Premier
Playford’s secretary, and had looked
after six Premiers —three Liberal, three
Labor. He accompanied Sir Richard
Butler to George V’s Silver Jubilee,
earlier helped to organise Adelaide’s wel-
come to the Royal couple, then Duke
and Duchess of York. Shortly, with a
pending V.V.1.P.-visit, he’ll see plans for
his best organising effort come to
fruition. He has set a good example for
Adelaide folk’s flowery welcome to their
Queen; in his own rose-garden bloom
some 200-odd varieties —in organised
rows.
• •
“M.H.E.” on a new arrival;
Here pictured, James Auchmuty, M.A.,
Ph.D., F.R.Hist.S., and Member of the Royal
Irish Academy, comes from Portadown
(Northern Ireland), and is a descendant of a
sister of the father of W. C. Wentworth and
a collateral of Sir Sam. Auchmuty, who took
Java for the British in 1814, and would have
taken Australia at the same time if Arthur
Phillip hadn’t taken it first. The modern
family representative is a typical Trinity
College, Dublin, man and one of the finest
historical acquisitions Australia has sighted
for many a year. Professor of Modern History
at Alexandria University, he was hurled out
(along with all other British staff) by the
Egyptians at the crucial moment when the
N. S. Wales University of Technology was
ACADEMICIAN
assembling a staff. He is the author of con-
siderable readable historical work, including
an excellent short work on Lecky, his fellow-
Irish historian, and a life of Sir Thomas Wyse
(spouse of Lucien Bonaparte’s daughter and
British Ambassador at Athens in the day of
Don Pacifico), plus some sound research-
writing on the American War of Independence.
Entering the early-Australia research-field with
zest, he has already made a dint in new ground
with his paper before the Anzaas History
Section at Canberra on the background of the
early Governors. In the coming month he
becomes head of the Humanities Faculty,
Newcastle (N.S.W.) College in the University
of Technology and Associate Professor of
History.
• •
Before his appointment as head of
Wanganui Collegiate School (N.Z.),
F. W. Gilligan captained the Oxford
eleven (1919), and played for Essex for
10 years. Now he’s called it a day.
Successor R. B. Lockhart comes all the
way from Appleby College in Ontario
(Canada). A Rugby blue of Cambridge,
one-time assistant-master at Harrow, the
new head studied a sterner curriculum in
the Middle East, enlisting as gunner and
finishing as battery-commander.
• •
“F.S.”: Ernest Hemingway, who sur-
vived two crashes in two days in darkest
Africa, once said that you had to experi-
ence a thing in order to write about it.
So in War" I he became a soldier in-
stead of a war-correspondent. There is
one form of violence, however, of which
he seems to have had more experience
than most people—marriage. He’s been
married four times, and so must have
seen the game from inside much more
than Somerset Maugham, for instance,
who has never married at all, as far as I
know. Yet when he touches on marital
affairs in his books this old bachelor,
now 80, is just as convincing on the sub-
ject as Hemingway is on fighting and
murder. It seems a matter of ability to
identify oneself with another person’s
feelings.
Announced by the Royal Society of
Arts in London that Professor Paton,
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Mel-
bourne, has been awarded the Swiney
Prize, founded by a doctor who left a
large sum for a prize for the best work
of the year on jurisprudence. Professor
Paton gets a silver cup and £100 for his
Textbook of Jurisprudence.
• •
Retirement of Captain Ross Wheatley
takes from the R.A.N. one of its most
expert specialists, he knowing more
about minesweeping than probably any
other man in the service. A highly-quali-
fied hydrographer (in charge of the
hydrographic branch when war started),
and, of course, a meticulous navigator
(somewhat necessary when sailing delib-
erately across a known minefield),
Wheatley had all the other attributes of
an executive naval captain, and was
commanding-officer of sloop Warrego
in Darwin at the time of the first devas-
tating raid. A nice bit of navigating
here, too, with Warrego racing up and
down the wreck-cluttered harbor, firing
all guns at the squadrons above. Pro-
bably his most important job was given
him after the cease-fire. Wheatley it
was who, with his flotilla of corvettes,
cleared the Australian coasts of mine-
fields. The war was far from over even
then for the 20th Minesweeping Flotilla
—one of them was blown up by a mine
in Barrier Reef waters.
• •
Lately retired Brigadier Ronald Irving
(one-time Director of Military Training
and C.O. of the British Commonwealth
Base in Japan) is behind the organisation
of Melbourne University’s appeal for
funds to establish Chairs of Medicine and
Surgery. A soldier for just under 40
years, a Middle East and New Guinea
man, the Brig.’s back on family ground
in his Uni. job—his grandfather was the
first Professor of Classics there, and
Vice-Chancellor between 1887-89. Irving
held the No. 1 Digger honor in N. S. !
Wales, NX1.
• •
Macaulay’s New Zealander surveying the
ruins of St. Paul’s from London Bridge
wouldn’t have been more surprised than
Pastor Pipiranu, of Bougainville, when
he looked down (from a plane) on Mel-
bourne sweltering in a heatwave and
saw fnore lights, more houses and more
people than he had ever imagined
existed. In the late war the pastor and
his staff gave succor and shelter to com-
mandos and rescued and nourished the
crews of American Catalinas A which
crashed on sea and land, but these chance
visitations didn’t give the worthy pastor
the slightest notion of the size and com-
plexity of a modern city. Also, heat like
Melbourne’s: is never ex-
perienced on his island.
• •
The Queen and Duke will
fly more than 4000 miles
over Australia in a Qantas
Constellation—from east to
west, and pretty well from
south to north. At the con-
trols, Captain Donald
MacMaster, with close on
3£ million miles up and 20
years’ flying experience.
Barnstorming pilot with an
aerial circus, instructor with
the Queensland Aero Club,
flying-doctor pilot in the
same State, he had a solid
war record, which included
flying between Perth and
Ceylon (when the Japs cut
the air-route between Aus-
tralia and the Middle East),
a trip of over 3000 miles, the
world’s longest air-hop. He
made more than 100 cros-
sings, all under strict radio-
silence, which meant no
radio-navigational assist-
ance. Then he shifted to
New Guinea, flying Lode-
stars —the “bully-beef” run,
swooping low into moun-
tain valleys, supplying
Diggers and Yanks with
tucker after they’d pushed the Jap back
towards Buna and Gona. Sydney-London
was his beat after the war, Hythe flying-
boats. He got his first flying training in
the type of Royal aircraft when, in 1947,
he took delivery in the U.S. of the
second Qantas Connie, and flew it across
the Pacific to Australia. Thirty-nine,
when aground he lives with wife and six
nippers on a five-acre farmlet near
Windsor (N.S.W.).
First Westralian scientist to win a
Nuffield Dominion travelling-fellowship
for agricultural research, Keith Finlay,
D.Sc., a lightly-framed 29 and a good
lecturer. Earlier working as an Edward
Moss research-fellow at the Westralian
University’s Institute of Agriculture
(where he isolated 10 different strains of
spotted-wilt in tomatoes), he was recently
given charge of a new section in plant-
breeding with the Agricultural Depart-
ment. Object of his research there is
hybridising with local varieties five dif-
ferent forms of tomatoes of proved
resistance to wilt, aiming at producing a
local strain with maximum resistance.
The fellowship will give Finlay a year of
agricultural research at Rothamsted
(Eng.).
• •
“Cauboy”: Hlinka de Tarczynska,
the young Melbourne soprano, has been
signed-up by Noel Coward for a role in
his new operetta. She came to the fore
during a National Theatre grand-opera
season at the Princess, and subsequently
stepped into the shoes of an Italian
prima donna at a day’s notice at His
Majesty’s, where her late father, the
brilliant Polish violinist with the mane
of yellow hair, was orchestral leader
through many opera seasons. Father
Tar. loved a practical joke ; once, when
the Italian conductor told the company to
turn-up for the final dress-rehearsal in
their full regalia, he asked what the
orchestra should do. “Come in night
dress,” said the conductor ; so Tarczynska
arrived in striped pyjamas.
• •
Binder’s sketch of Arthur Stephenson
is lifelike in its presentation of the sol-
dierly grey man who has been awarded
the Royal Gold Medal for Architecture,
instituted by Queen Victoria in 1848 —
the first Australian to receive the honor.
It will be presented to him in private
audience by the Queen.
Born in Melbourne, his father one-
time head of Wesley College and a noted
classical scholar, his uncle one-time head
of Brisbane Boys’ Grammar, Stephen-
son stayed on studying in London after
finishing the business of commanding the
3rd Pioneer Battalion in War I —M.C.
at Dieppe and two “mentions.” On the
insistence of Sir William Mcßeath, then
chairman of the State Savings Bank of
Victoria, who reckoned Australia needed
her young men, he returned to Mel-
bourne, there to found the firm which is
now probably the largest of its kind in
Australasia.
Stephenson specialised architecturally
in hospitals, and produced’ almost all of
the huge modem edifices which have
risen in Australia of recent years—Yar-
alla Military, the Dental Hospital, King
George V and Gloucester House at
R.P.A., in Sydney, and Mercy and Royal
Melbourne in the Yarra city, to name
some. At the Mercy he introduced canti-
lever Ijalconies for the first time in Aus-
ralia —they are an indication of the
modem trends he has built, sometimes
ARCHITECT
against conservative opposition, into
present-day hospitals.
Probably the only Australian to be
honored with an honorary citizenship of
New York (he built the Australian
pavilion for the 1939 World Fair there),
and with the Sulman Medal twice
awarded to his firm for hospitals (1942,
King George V ; 1948, Yaralla), Stephen-
son is as much an architect of thinking
as he is of bricks and mortar.
’Way back in 1889 J. T. Isles started a
real-estate business in Brisbane. His
first employee was William George
Albert Smyth, known then, and now, as
“Curly.” The firm grew to become Isles,
Love and Co., one of the biggest in
Brisbane, and J.T. grew into one of the
best-known commercial men in the city.
Curly also grew—from clerk to chair-
man of directors. Now, after 63 continu-
AGENT
ous years with his firm, in which time
he’s seen Brisbane grow from a village
to a city with unimproved value of £63
million, Curly, at 78, reckons that’s
enough. He claims that some £lO mil-
lion of the city’s real-estate has gone
under his hammer.
« •
The tall, sturdy figure of Londoner
Edgar Wikner Percival was seen the
other day in Melbourne talking to Exter-
nal Affairs Minister Casey, their topic
no doubt the Percival Gull which Perci-
val built and which Casey owns and
flies. One of Australia’s most distin-
guished aviators, Percival was born at
Albury (N.S.W.) and designed and flew
gliders round there 40 years back. A
few years later he was serving with the
Light Horse, and ended War I flying
R.A.F. planes. Then he took to design-
ing, and was the first to put low-wing
monoplanes into production in the British
Empire. For six years he flew the fast-
est time in the King’s Cup race; he still
holds the record. First to fly to Africa
and back in one day (1935), and first
to design a plane capable of carrying
10001 b. over a range of 1000 miles,
he founded and directs the British air-
craft firm which bears his name, can
put 20 scientific letters after said name,
and is engaged on research and design for
national purposes in London.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 75, John Samuel Eastman, one
of Westralia’s best rifle-shots and secretary of
the State’s National Rifle Association from
1911 to 1949. Captain of several rifle-clubs in
succession, he was a member of the Australian
Bisley team of 1925 and represented Westralia
on numerous occasions, including the N.R.A.
meeting in 1912, when the State won the teams-
*match. Singer, too, he had been a member
of the Coolgardie Liedertafel.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 79, Eliot Davis, who
owned Sleepy Fox, at one time the biggest
stake-winner in New Zealand, and Queen
March, whose record as stake-winner' in one
season stood for many years. Director of a
firm of wine and spirit merchants and of New
Zealand Breweries, and for a time Legislative
Councillor, he was a benefactor of art-galleries
and charitable institutions. His son, Sir Ernest
Davis, was formerly Mayor of Auckland.
In Sydney, Lieut.-Col. Noel William Wallace
Johnstone, a man who played many parts in
his 59 years. Born in India, 1 he saw service in
War I with the British and Indian A rm i es lD
France, German East Africa, Persia and Kurdi-
stan ; came to Australia in 1925 with ideas ,ot
farming; left the land for journalising; and
in War II got back into khaki, G.5.0.1>
Directorate of Military Training. After the
war his career continued variable —senior
investigating-officer with the Ministry of
Post-War Reconstruction, and after that a
Commonwealth immigration-officer in New,
Delhi. At-the end he was on the staff of the
Snowy Mountains Authority'.
At York (W.A.), at 81, Albert Thorn, former
mayor for the record period of just under 14
years, and one-time president of the York
Agricultural Society. He was one of Westralia s
most prominent breeders of trotters and Clydes-
dales.
In Brisbane, at 93, Benjamin Burton White-
house, founder, in 1895, of the piano-firni
bearing his name; he had an international
reputation as an authority on the instrument
Due to his persistent advice, English aM
German manufacturers designed pianos whicn
would stand up to the Queensland chmate.
In off-hours he was several times bowis-
champion of the State.
At Geraldton (W.A.), at 72, Walter Vernon
Sewell, farmer, flour-mill director and chair-
man of the Geraldton-Greenough Road Boaro-
For long associated with the public and agn-
cultural life of the district, and a noted judge
of sheep.




ABORIGINALITIES
WHEN the Queen is treated to an
exhibition of boomerang-throwing
she is almost certain to ask how the
natives used it to hunt game or against
an enemy. If she doesn’t, the Duke will,
and I hope someone supplies the right
answer, which is that it was more of a
toy than a weapon and was used mostly
in sport. There was a war-boomerang,
or kierlie, somewhat similar, but heavier
and straighter. It didn’t return —it wasn’t
meant *to —but it was accurate and
deadly. Another type, the water-kierlie,
was flat, and was broader and shorter
than the returning boomerang. With it
the natives could hit a fish near the sur-
face. Those were the boomerangs the
natives used in earnest, but the other
type is more spectacular. And that’s
probably why Binghi brought it to per-
fection. It supplied some cultural need
that was missing from his drought-bound
existence. —'“Salmon Gums.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“C. Coral”: One very essential piece
of equipment in the old Torres Strait
fighting-canoe was the Au-ar —the claws
of an eagle held by a man who, sitting
amidships, worked the charm with a
pulling potion to signify that the war-
riors were hauling their foes into their
power. The Au-ar was also used when
warriors were off on a sortie to some
other island in search of heads ; it was
pointed towards a particular island, after
which success was assured.
My old friend Maine, now
himself sleeping in the Isle
of the Blest, presented me
with an Au-ar which he had
carefully preserved, and
which he greatly valued. I
gave it to the Diocesan
Museum at "Thursday Island,
along with other things relat-
ing to the days when head-
collecting was a hobby, but
they all disappeared during
the war-time military occupa-
tion of Thursday Island. Pos-
sibly some souveniring
Digger now has the Au-ar,
though he mightn’t know
what it is ; if so, perhaps he’d
like to pass it on again to
what the Islanders used to
call the “Mujim.”
* * *
“Jackstay”; The porpoise,
playing and plunging round
the bows of the boat, is a
friendly soul, but for the true
hail-fellow-well-met air and
solid amiability, the seal can
give his co-marine mammal a
few points. One of the hairy
variety that frequents the
N.S.W. coast had spent the
morning beside our small
trawler scrapping with the
birds for the small fish %
tossed over the side. Somehow he
managed to get himself tangled in
the net and came with it on deck. It
being considered that three men and a
large seal with a good set of teeth might
strain deck-accommodation, the wheel-
house promptly became uncomfortably
crowded. The visitor, however, flopped
over to the winch and inspected it so
minutely you’d have thought he was
going to build one himself as soon as
he could get the parts; he stuck his
head into the fo’c’sle and made dis-
approving noises—probably because we
hadn’t made the bunks or washed-up
after breakfast —and if the engine-room
hatch hadn’t been in the wheelhouse he’d
have probably nipped down and studied
the principles of diesels. Tour concluded,
he waddled to the rail, favored us with
a remarkably quizzical look, carefully
selected the largest flat-
head and slid over the
side. First thing the skip-
per did was shut the
cabin - scuttle. “Better
keep it shut,” he said, “or
next time that so-and-so
comes aboard he’ll prob-
ably try to go below and
fry his blasted flathead!”
* * *
“Gulliver”: Not only
Mat’s spelling but his geo-
graphy was somewhat
astray when those Vic-
torian towns got the better
of him (B. 13 /1 / ’54).
Boomoonoomoona has
neither the penultimate
syllable nor the final “h”
with which he credited it,
and it isn’t on the Upper
Murray but much further
down, below Mulwala. It
was long owned by the
Hays, one of those die-
hard Riverina families
who sent their sons to
Cambridge, wore tweed
knickerbocker suits on
blazing summer days, and
even unto tho third "native-born genera-
tion referred to England as “Home” —
a home to which, nevertheless, few
of them returned permanently. How-
ever, Mat decided wisely in head-
ing for the Murray. If he’d stopped
around Charlton, a few miles north
of St. Arnaud, he’d have run up
against place-names like Dooboobetic,
which sounds like some obscure disease ;
Woosang, which ought to be a Chinese
settlement but is predominantly Irish;
Buckrabanyule and Teddywaddy, Nin-
yeunook and Wooroonooke and Barra-
kee and a whole lot more multi-vowelled
polysyllables all guaranteed to make the
bewildered stranger rush south at top
speed to settle in the simple safety of
monosyllabic Moe.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Propalong”: It was a dry time, and
though all of us were busy we knew that
Tom, camped alone out at the Twenty-
mile, was doing two men’s work. No
“Do you drink ‘ sundowners' on cloudy
days, too ?”
one heard any complaints, however, and
the old chap arrived one evening,
tramped to the men’s hut, slung his hat
savagely into a corner, glared round, and
took out the makings. “Y’ musta had a
tough time with all them weaners, Tom,”
Larry sympathised. “Hung up on y’ all
over' the Watercourse, didn’t they?”
Grunt from Tom. “Wasn’t y’ pullin’
out fifty a day when Canegrass went
dry?” Blue chipped in. Tom’s white
moustache twitched. “Dunno how y’
managed on the Quartpot nettin’, Tom,”
Sandy ventured. “All that drift t’ shovel.
Musta kep’ y’ busy.” Tom spat fiercely
out through the door. “All them flamin’
ol’ ewes,” condoled Reddy “Y’ never
oughta had t’ do them on y’r own. The
blanky boss oughta sent y’ ” “Blank
the flamin’ boss, and you, too!” roared
Tom, jumping to his feet, his blue eyes
blazing in the brown wrinkles round
them. “I’m goin’ t’ see the cow now.
Know what he did t’ me? Rang me
las’ night an’ reckoned I got too much
t’ handle —wanted t’ send one o’ you
“I still think it would be better on a pole in the garden."
useless blanks out t’ give me a hand!”
And he stormed out.
* * * *
“N.K.S.”: When she was in Christ-
church (N.Z.), the Queen could look out
from her hotel windows on to the River
Avon, bordered with thousands of weep-
ing-willows. These were descended from
a few slips taken from trees growing
over Napoleon’s grave on St. Helena.
They were brought by early settlers who
called at the island on their way to
their New Zealand home.
* * * *
“Villefair”: Because budgerigar hens
fight so ferociously when nesting, I par-
titioned an old aviary into four honey-
moon-flats and put a pair of birds in
each. All went well with the ground-floor
couples, but the Top Left’s broods
invariably died before reaching nest-ieav-
ing age, while the Top Rights reared two
nests of “runners”—those quaint little
freaks that never develop flight-feathers,
A change of mating seemed indicated,
Budgerigars being notoriously immoral,
I didn't expect any trouble over the
change. Bui no! All parties utterly
refused to accept the new spouse ; in the
best Hollywood tradition they clung to
their respective sides of the wire and
gazed soulfully at one another. After a
month of it. and still no interest being
taken in the nests, I shoved both pairs
back in the main aviary. To my amaze-
ment the two hens didn’t both decide
on one nest and try to murder each
Other for possession; instead they selected
one each, mated with their original
spouses, and began the business of laying
eggs. But what has been going on dur-
ing the process would provide an
ornithological Kinsey with two lurid
chapters.
* « «
“Pandanus”: Haven’t seen cats eat
ice-cream (B. 13 /1 / ’54), but once saw
a most surprising customer for the deli-
cacy—a large green emperor caterpillar
which plopped down on the table from
trees overhead in Melbourne Botanical
Gardens, The delighted kids tried the
gorgeous creature, both ends, with a spot
of ice-cream, and sure enough Pillar-
carter soon wagged the enterprising end
of him and got to devouring same,
What else had he come down for?
„ „ „ *
- “Bass”: Geiger-counter tests have
shown signs of radioactivity at Wil-
giemia, in the Weld Ranges about 40
miles nor’-west of Cue (W.A.). Those
ranges are composed almost entirely of
iron, and Wilgiemia provides one of the
few examples of native mining in Aus-
tralia. The word means “home- of tjie
ochre,” and the natives got that from a
vein of soft iron-oxide which they fol-
lowed hundreds of feet into the moun-
tain. They traded it with tribes as far
away as Queensland, and they must have
been at it for centuries. Only three
medicine-men were permitted to go near
the mine; the peak was sacred to
the natives, and—apart from the eerie
effect of the reddish hue which comes
from the ochre, and which has a some-
what awesome effect on white men who
venture down the mine—there might be
a sound reason. Don’t know what effect
a uranium lode would have on a moun-
tain of almost pure iron—there’s an esti-
mated 27 million tons above the surface
in Wilgiemia peak alone—but it may
account for the fact that the outcrop has
practically no effect on the magnetic-
needle. It is possible that when the first
natives reached the spot, say about 15,000
years ago, the emanations from the radio-
ive minerals were visible in the form
aura - “ d tha < the reb g“ as
m « canca Pf k s P ran » , £ . r0 ® Sf
ralhcr than from the color o£ the ochre-
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: First whaling in Australian
waters (B. 13/l/’54) was carried out by
Captain Pendleton, of the American brig
Union. Putting into King’s Sound (W.A.)
he found there the French exploring
vessel Le Geographe, whose commander,
hearing that he was looking for a head-
quarters for whaling and sealing, 0
gested Kangaroo Island.
a m ved “ 1803 and established a
cam P at American River. Here some
f h > s “ en "“1 seabn * “ 46 ,S
long-boat while the others, from timbe
cam ed aboard (not from naftve trees, as
is sometimesi claimed) built a 35-ton
schooner and christened her Independ-
cnee. . Under Captain O- F-Smt ,
® ltb a crew 01 l d > tbls llttle c r a£t
£u , r :. seal f. “rnn. 1111 th ? “H: 1 ?
wink the brig cruised after whda
N “*/ aar botll ves “ ls ar T, b .l!
with fuU cargoes. News of then sto»
JP read to ve f els , alread y ®
the N.Z. coasts, and soon more Amen
whalers came, most, of them choosing
ff°bart for then base,
ONE-FOR-THE-ROAD
So it is morning, and I who was trained to live
Close-mouthed, a practical man, with what
will be, •
Will drink my one-for-the-road and turn my
Where the rains fall and the sun sets under
the sea.
I have lived with the light on the plains, level
at dawn,
And time lying around while you pace an idea;
I pay for it now in a thought that takes the bit
And rears where it must be seen, in a light so
clear.
If strength yet burned in my shoulders while
I went
Yielding my noon for young men’s tomorrow,
If my limbs were tough as the eager planning
mind,
I could still be left with a high heart in sorrow.
i
I have overfed on distance and taste of drouth,
The shovel, the crowding sheep and the bright
axe swinging.
My body craves sea-winds and the green
south — _ «
So when I go I cannot go with singing.
S.A.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.
That Holiday Feeling
TS the “simple life,” after all, as restful
and relaxing as it sounds?
The gent, who supplies my local bait-
store with blood-worms lives just such a
life—grubbing gently and spasmodically
in estuarine mud for the wrigglers, catch-
ing a box or two of whiting from time
to time, living in a rent-free shack, pay-
ing neither rates nor electricity bills,
His entire wardrobe, both winter and
summer, would fit comfortably into the
bottom of a sugar-bag, and it hasn’t
included a pair of shoes for the last 30-
odd years—you don’t need shoes when
you can scuffle the fragments of a broken
beer-glass into a corner of the bar bare-
foot.
But the strain has told, it seems, for
when on a recent Saturday I inquired
for my regular quota I “No
worms this week—none for a couple of
weeks, in fact.” Idly, I asked the reason.
“The bloke who digs ’em,” said the
bait-merchant, “has gone on holidays,
Holidays! Relaxing and refreshing bis
nerves, no doubt, m the dust and din
of a stone-crushing plant in the midde
of a dry and sun-baked plain somewhere
west of Cobar, or perhaps plying the
trade of conductor on a Sydney tram--
anything, anything to get away from it
all!
G.


"DILL BOGONG was a nice bloke,
but rough as bags. He had a good
farm about three miles out of Gobung,
and was jx bachelor, which combination
of circumstances inspired several girls
to have a “go” at him. He survived the
onslaughts and thereby acquired the,
reputation of being a wary bird, so that,
when he started “carting” around Winnie,
the new schoolteacher, the district
gossips not unnaturally decided there
was “nothing in it.” On the night of
Gobung’s Bachelors’ Ball, Bill and
Winnie arrived early, had the first dance,
then settled themselves in Bill’s car,
parked some distance from the hall.
Time went by but Bill and Winnie
remained absentees. Just before the sup-
per-dance a group of blokes left the hall
for what they called a breath of fresh
air. They were just about to knock the
head off the second bottle when a sten-
torian roar, charged with sincerity, rent
the air; “Love you? Of course I love
you! Gor’ blime, d’ y’ think I’d sit
out here half the night getting et by
mosquitoes if I didn’t?” For a moment
the fresh-air takers were speechless;
then as one man they raised glasses and
drank to Bill’s and Winnie’s future
happiness.—“Saaedi.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Ybsul”: Watching a plane taking-off
from a New Guinea highlands ’drome,
I remarked to head-boy Waiwera that
the grass was getting a bit long on the
strip. Waiwera agreed: “Byembye balus
’e eatim grass ; all bugrup finish,” An
accurate enough description of a ’plane
tipping on its nose. Early next morning
a clan of armed and befeathered war-
riors attacked the grass at the worst end
with knives and bamboo flails, and .by
mid-afternoon about 180yds. of the strip
had been razed, full width. There would
be no grazing there for any herbivorous
“balus.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Becks”: At first glance the bottle-
message picked up near Goff’s Harbor
(N.S.W.) looks very like a hoax. It tells
of the “sloop Augusta” which left “the
small port Taltal in South Africa,” on
January 10, 1951, and struck a storm
seven days later, the survivors being
washed up on an uninhabited atoll, the
location of which was given as “approxi-
mately longitude 121 degrees east and
latitude 42 degrees south.” That would
be something like 500 miles south of
Albany, in a region where atolls simply
don’t exist. The sloop and its survivors
“And remember, don't do your block—take 'Soothanerve ’"
would have had to travel pretty fast to
get there ; the message was allegedly
written before the end of January,
Further, it is most unlikely that ocean
currents would have taken the bottle from
there to Coff’s Harbor. Finally, there is
no such port as Taltal in South Africa,
There is, however, a Taltal in Chile, so
if it can be assumed that the writer really
meant South America and his east longi-
tude was a slip for west longitude, the
story is just barely possible. In that case
the bottle would have to be carried back
to the South American coast, after which
it would follow the Kon-Tiki route
across the Pacific until it slipped into
the East Australian current somewhere
between Samoa an 4 Fiji.
* * * *
“G.S.”: Touching recent discussion on
straight traverses made without the use
of instruments. On one of his expedi-
tions John Forrest travelled from
Geraldton to the Warburton Ranges, a
distance of between 800 and 900 miles,
using only a sextant and a compass, and
he gauged the distance by the mileage
his camels could do in a day. Other ex-
plorers used similar primitive tools, and
until 1931 many maps of the outback
were • based on their figures —-and those
maps were remarkably accurate. A
survey-party found that Sir John was
only a few miles out in his trip from
Geraldton to the Warburton Ranges, and
rather less from there to the South Aus-
tralian border.
* * * *
“Mero”: The size of the largest
American tree (B. 4/11/’53) seems to be
somewhat underestimated. The “National
Geographic Magazine” of February, 1939,
described as the world’s most massive
tree a redwood ( Sequoia gigantea) in
Tulare County, Calif., 37.4 ft. in dia-
meter. It also claimed as the world’s
tallest tree a coast redwood ( Sequoia
sempervirens) named the Founders Tree,
364 ft. high. However, E. T. Emmett, in
his book on Tasmania, quotes from a
book by D. W. Lewin, published in
1906; “The peppermint-trees ( Euc . amy-
dalina) of Tasmania are admitted to be
the tallest trees in the world. Some have
been measured from 416 ft. to 471 ft.
in heightj and 0ne.... .reached 500 ft.
In 1894 the Rev. T. J. Ewing saw over
a hundred of these trees, 40ft. in circum-
ference, and measured one that was
60ft. at 4ft. from the ground. A spar
of white swamp-gum {Euc. viminalis )
although of small diameter, 230 ft. long,
was sent to the London Exhibition of
1862.” Which suggests that America
is well, behind with the tallest tree.
* * * «
“Foresight”: If “Kelms” (B.
23/12/’53) carries out this simple test
he’ll be nearer to the explanation of the
snapshooter’s accuracy without careful
aim. Point at a small object about 20ft.
away with both eyes open, then close
them alternately. It will be found that,
with one eye, probably the right, the
index-finger is pointing exactly at the
target, whereas with the other eye the
aim is wide of the mark. Substitution of
weapon for finger requires practice; it
is, however, the basis of good shooting
with a shotgun and quick shooting with a
pistol.
* * * •
“Jurutulis”: The eruption of Merapi,
under whose elegant, cone-shaped shadow 1
J lived for some years, reminds me that
there are other volcanoes in Java —in fact,
dozens of them —and I wonder whether
the Indonesians have been too busy
murdering one another to give to these
smouldering menaces the same attention
as did the Dutch. One periodically sent
up enormous masses of mud and boiling
water over hundreds of miles of rice-
fields, villages and plantations. It had a
crater-lake with a mud bottom, and
when the lake filled under 400 inches
annually of tropical rain the bottom
would collapse and precipitate millions
of tons of water into the infernal
regions ; hence the explosions. The Dutch
waited until the lake was empty, then
sealed the bottom with cement. This
fantastic engineering performance has
prevented further eruptions, but you
never know—the concrete may have
cracked. There was another volcano
which frequently overflowed the country,
and which the Dutch rendered innocuous
by'means of sluice-gates. Continued
"Haven't you got a blond one ?”
neglect could mean another Krakatoa in
those uneasy regions.
* * * ♦
“Laffer”: Tell “Narumee” (B.
20/1/’54) that the reason for “so much
hideous corrugated-iron used to roof
houses” is twofold, in South Australia,
anyway. Firstly, the town water-supply
is of particularly hard water, and most
houses have an iron tank to catch rain-
water and store it for drinking and
washing; and it’s an old-established fact
that water from a slate roof is not suited
for this purpose. Secondly, we had a
gale a while back, and several churches
were denuded of parts of their slate
roofs. The usual letters to the papers
revealed that there was only one man
trained in the ancient craft of attaching
the slates.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: All these heat-wave
yarns about hens laying hard-boiled eggs
and blokes making tea straight out of the
waterbag don’t impress me much. For
I’m the bloke took 314 fat ewes 90 miles
from Tintinalligoombul to Hut Hill in a
week one January. “Can y’ get ’em
through?” the boss asked. It was then
108 in the waterbag. I looked at my
wagonette, at the faithful old mare
in the shafts, at old dog Spry, and said
“Be at Hut Hill in a week an’ never lose
a ewe.” Hot! The
first day was a scorcher,
and every following
day got worse. The
dust hung like a red
curtain, birds dropped
off the trees, Spry’s
tongue smoked every
time he poked it out.
At last the Hut quivered
in the heat-haze, and
the old mare hauled the
wagonette the last half-
mile and dropped at
the yard-gate. “Where’s
the sheep?” the boss
howled. I pointed to
the wagonette, “In
there,” I croaked,
“forty-two tins of tal-
low. Never lost a
ewe, like I said.” Of
course, that was before
they brought in the 40-
hour week, and if you
didn’t do what you
were told you got the
sack. But, cripes, it
was hot!
“Bert the Carpenter”: Gremlin, the
dog who owns me, is an intelligent-look-
ing tyke. A visitor to my workshop
remarked on this. “He’s pretty cute,” I
agreed. “Useful, too. Sweeps this place
out for me.” The visitor was doubtful.
“All right,” I retorted. “Here, boy.
Clean up these shavings.” Gremlin soon
had them raked into a neat heap with
his nose. I indicated another spot, then
another, and ‘ before long all the shav-
ings had been pushed into heaps. The
marvelling visitor went off to tell what
he had seen, and next day returned with
an 8-mm. movie-camera to film the act.
I then had to let him into the joke,
Gremlin has been trained to one meal
a day* eaten in the evening. If given
tucker at any other time he buries it.
I had some scraps of rawhide in the
workshop, which smell like tucker. I
had dropped a few pieces among the
shavings and Gremlin had duly buried
them. My friend took the film all the
same. I’ve since seen it run off and
it’cT win a bet for you anywhere.
* ♦ * ♦
“Hist”: The blue-wren and his
sombrely-clad little mate have been rear-
ing their family in a shrub opposite the
kitchen-window. Eight-year-old spotted
the three fledglings in their first plum-
age as they hopped about the back
lawn. “All little girls!” she exclaimed.
“How disappointing for the parents!”
DAYBREAK
The sky-light pales,
the sand-crust thins,
banksias stir along their limbs.
Beyond the shells
the brown weed spins,
and all the waves have silver rims.
Brisk and clean
the ready sun
from the ocean steps and sings:
“Come wind, come rain,
the morning’s won.”
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.
Her Majesty's "Rare White Heron"
WHEN the Maoris welcomed Queen
Elizabeth as a “stranger from
beyond the horizon, rare white heron of
a single flight,” journalistic- camp-fol-
lowers of the Royal party hastened to
explain—quite unsoundly—that the white
heron is so rare that few people have
ever seen it.
The odd fact is, not that the “special
correspondents” fell down ornithologic-
ally (they often do much worse), but that
the Maoris should have acquired an im-
pression that was never noticeably
accurate. According to the records of
early naturalists in N.Z., the white heron
was always fairly abundant in the south
island and not excessively rare in the
north.
Possibly it was much less common
in the days when Maori traditions were
taking shape ; for, certainly, the original
Enzedders had a semi-sacred regard for
the bird and placed a high value on its
plumes. One bright idea they cherished
was that if a man wore one of the plumes
While eating, any woman who joined in
the meal was bound to go bald.
That belief—or rather, a general con-
viction that women would be well
advised to shun • such feathers—might
have had very useful results if it had
crossed the Tasman Sea fifty or so years
ago. Here, the white heron of N.Z.
(,Egretta alba), known in this country as
the white egret, used to be fairly abund-
ant and widely distributed. Moreover,
Australia possessed considerable num-
bers of two other snowy members of
the group, the plumed and little egrets.
But then the plume-hunters got busy.
Aigrettes being fashionable for feminine
wear, the birds were murdered whole-
sale on the Murray swamps and else-
where, and, because the delicate feathers
were available only in the breeding
season, the killing of each pair caused
four or five young birds in each of hun-
dreds of nests to die of starvation.
That slaughter of the innocents has
since been stopped—not by women, but
by Governments spurred by naturalists
—and to-day all three of the birds are
doing moderately well. Indeed, should
her Majesty yearn to gaze upon a “rare
white heron of a single flight,” she could,
with a trifle of luck, have her wish grati-
fied at a lagoon near Sydney.
PHIL ANTHUS.


■XL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
TILLEY,.,, Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: ( “ THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, OL
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Stamp-duty on Shares
A HUGE turnover in oil-
company shares has been a
feature of the first month of
1954. New share-issues have
been announced by the prin-
cipal companies Ampol
Petroleum, Oil Search, Frdney
Kimberley and Papuan Apin-
aipi. The new arrangements be-
tween Associated Australian Oil-
fields, NX., and Freney also
foreshadow large new issues.
Several oil companies have
issued millions of shares. The
“rights” market recently has
been very active. Ampol
Petroleum reports delay in post-
ing notices of entitlement to its
new issue because of the thous-
ands of transfers. And the N. S.
Wales Stamp Duties Office has
been swamped with share-trans-
fers requiring (under anti-
quated N.S.W. regulations) a
separate impressed duty-stamp
on each document.
In other States the farce of
impressing each share-certificate
with a separate stamp upon
transfer has been abolished.
Victoria and South- Australia,
Queensland and Tasmania are
satisfied to accept adhesive
stamps as evidence of the pay-
ment of the required stamp-
duty. But N. S. Wales stands
out, refusing to move with the
times or with circumstances,
with the result that scrip on the
Sydney register of a listed com-
pany is not considered “good
delivery” in other States.
The chief difficulty arises
with new issues. A company
“closes its books” on a certain
day, and only transfers regis-.
tered up to that day entitle the
transferee to “rights” under the
new issue. But the company
must not register a transfer
unless the document has been
impressed at the Stamp Duties
Office with a stamp representing
the scale rate of duty based on
the consideration paid to the
transferror. Where there is any
hitch in the stamping of trans-
fers at the Stamp Duties Office
complications often arise.
Such complications have
arisen in the case of Oil Search
transfers. If adhesive stamps
were permitted the stamping
could have been done in
minutes in brokers’ offices, com-
pared with days under the
present system.
Impressed stamps on transfers
bf public-company share-certifi-
cates involve a great waste of
time, labor and money. They
are, in N.S.W., an obstruction
to the normal financial opera-
tions of the State. Even if the
Stamp Commissioner feels that
transactions in private-company
shares still need his scrutiny as
regards consideration payable,
and therefore insists on the im-
pressed systdm in regard to
them, his argument falls to the
ground in respect of public-
company shares sold in the
auction of the Stock Exchanges.
To make the consolidated-
revenue position doubly secure
provision could be made for
penalties to be imposed both on
the broker and on the listed com-
pany in the case of any evasion
of stamp-duty.
The present N.S.W. system of
impressed duty-stamps on share-
transfers is one of those cases
where archaic regulations defy
all rhyme or reason. The tax-
payer, after all, is entitled to
first consideration. Otherwise
the taxing field shrinks to the
minimum.
Freney and Associated
A deal which the sharemarket
considers unsatisfactory to
shareholders in Freney
Kimberley Oil Co. (1932), N.L.,
has been agreed to by Freney
directors and the board of
Associated Australian Oilfields,
NX.
Freney holds tfiree oil-pros-
pecting permits in W.A, aggregat-
ing 550 square miles inland from
Derby, and including the Ner-
rima Dome. Associated has no
W.A. interests, though it has
authority to prospect large areas
in Queensland. It has been
drilling in the Roma area for
some time without success.
For weeks there has been
keen interest in Freney shares,
with rumors of a possible deal
with Anglo-Iranian. Freney
officials denied these rumors.
On January 25 it was
announced that Freney and
Associated had decided to join
forces for the development of
Freney’s Westralian leases. A
new co., Associated Freney Oil-
fields, NX., is to be formed, and
“will proceed immediately” with
development of the Freney co.s
Nerrima Dome area in the
Kimberleys. Associated Oil has
arranged for the delivery of an
American deep-drilling plant in
Australia by June of this year.
Freney Kimberley, which has
an issue of 1,500,000 6s. shares
(530,000 fully-paid, the rest paid
to varying amounts), will get
950.000 fully-paid 10s. shares in
the new float and the to
subscribe for 2,250,000 new 10s.
shares for cash. It will also have
the right to subscribe at par for
50.000 contributing shares in
Australian Associated Oilfields,
NX.
On its side, Australian
Associated Oilfields (issued
capital, 1,750,000 10s. shares paid
to 3s. 6d.) is to get 300,000 fully-
paids in the new co. and the
right to take up 3,500,000
contribs.
A million shares will be offered
for public subscription by
Associated Freney.
Associated Australian Oilfields
undertakes to procure the sub-
scription of the total contribut-
ing capital of 6,750,000 shares,
to be paid to 2s. on application.
Total issue by Associated Freney
will be 8,000,000 shares.
Directors of the new co. will be
F. B. Clapp, H. Wallace Smith,
H. S. Sleigh, R. B. Randell,
C. A. Bryne, C. C. Flower and
N. Fernie.
Associated interests will have
a dominant holding in the new
concern, though Freney con-
trolled the strategic property —the
‘oil-prospecting permits in W.A.
This is the bone of contention
which Freney shareholders find
so hard to swallow. Prices for
Freney shares fell heavily on
’Change following the announce-
ment. Associated scrip rose
sharply, then reacted.
Roma Drills Another
“P. Mobile”: Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields, NX., reports
the abandonment of its No, 3
test, and, in spite of past failures,
the removal of the drilling-plant
to Hospital Hill on the outskirts
of the town of Roma in South
Queensland. A fourth test was
spudded-in on January 14.
Five wells have already been
sunk close to this town; one of
these was dry, three produced a
little gas, and one gas with a
little oil. In all cases water was
the major product.
The first well was drilled for
artesian water by the Roma
council. It struck gas un-
expectedly when the drilling-
string was “frozen” at 3670 ft,
on October 16, 1900, and a blow
lasting 20 minutes ejected gas
and water. Some gas was still
coming through twelve hours
later. The next morning an
intermittent blow started again,
the depth of the hole being
3710 ft. Pressure of gas is stated
to have prevented further deep-
ening of the hole, and the casing
parted at 800 ft. when an attempt
was made to withdraw it.
On February 1, 1901, the flow
was measured as 44,625 cub, ft.
“I think We'll give this prospectin' away , Dan , an'
start a new life.”
of gas and 39,411 gallons of
water in 24 hours. Three years
later it. was stated that gas was
flowing at the rate of 72,264 cu.
ft. a day. In June, 1906, Roma
was reticulated for gas, and the
gas plant, after running success-
fully for a few days, was handed
over to the Municipal Council
when the supply failed on June
16. Flow in any quantity was
not* subsequently attained, al-
though a little gas was reported
as coming up with the water
in February, 1910.
A second bore was commenced
by the Roma Mineral Oil Co.
in July, 1907. It was located
only 78 yards south of the first
bore, and a gas-flow, reported
as “heavy,” was struck at 3702 ft.
on November 3, 1908, but, after
a few minutes, caught fire. The,
flow gradually diminished, and
the fire was extinguished on
November 12. The gas-flow
ceased entirely in January, 1909,
during an unsuccessful attempt
to recover the sin. casing. In the
immediate vicinity three further
wells were drilled but struck
only small shows of gas.
The results from these five
wells all point very definitely to
lenticular and faulted conditions,
and the “wet” gas encountered is
strongly indicative of long-
distance migration. It is, of
course, probable that a measur-
able flow of gas will be encoun-
tered at around 3700 ft. in the
test now drilling, but it is likely
to be shortlived.
Tooth shares were pointed out
in B. 18/11 / ’53 when they were
at 70s. 6d. They have risen
to 81s., to yield 3.9 p.c. on a
16 p.c. div. basis. It is a stock
with unusual possibilities: there
is great internal strength in
book-values, and expansion for
many years has been financed
out of ploughed-back profits.
* * * *
Minster, Ltd., which owns all
the shares in Westminster Car-
pets Pty. and Whitehead Chemi-
cal Co., has declared an interim
of p.c., compared with an
interim of 6i p.c. and a final of
8| p.c. (making a total of 15
p.c.) in the preceding year.
The product, Westminster carpet
(used extensively in motor-cars
and for domestic purposes), is in
strong demand, and the co. is
working 142 hours a week.
Minster 10s. scrip at 225. 3d.
returns 6.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton’s ord. in-
terim has been maintained at
10 p.c. p.a. The shilling a share
will be payable on March 31.
Cum div., the shares are at
365., returning 5.7 p.c. Brad-
ford has had a very sound
record.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOiy 4
osuixivax
PTEUO.
>F ' V f£»s juA l- V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI,” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND . WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK, BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
: PROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables ’
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trusted, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
I*. •J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
THE
ARMiDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBUO
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER. 8.A., B.Sc.,
INSURANCE —for your protection’
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Banff Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch; 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BWBI3I (3 lines) c. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
m
m
u
■I
m
m
m
:
m
"THE GLADYS MONCRIEFF SHOW"
People all over Australia are applauding the sincerity, the warmth, the
real friendliness of the outstanding radio feature that’s as big as the heart
of its beloved star—“ The Gladys Moncrieff Show.” And each week
Gladys sings more of the songs you remember, laughs with “Luigi,’ and
encourages promising young artists in the most heart-warming halt-hour
on the air.
Presented by the makers of President Refrigerators.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The turbulent background to
our industrial relations is at
present overshadowed more by
apprehension of all the disastrous
things that might happen than
of the events themselves.
Upwards of five million workers
are pressing for wage-increases.
Engineers, electricians, railway-
men and miners are all strike-
conscious. (So, for that matter,
are grammar-school masters,
stung by inadequate salaries and
lack of “differentials,” but a
combination of middle-class
responsibility and noblesse oblige
brought defeat to a notion at
their Buxton conference for a
one-day “token” strike.)
Thought of strike-action, it
would seem, is catching. Nearly
all of us, whether operative, busi-
ness or professional man, farmer,
publican or housewife, at times
find ourselves to be suffering at
somebody else’s expense. What
more natural than to threaten to
walk out just at that moment
when our services are most
needed, like the railwaymen
before Christmas or the elec-
tricians on vital jobs? We don’t.
Some of us would get the sack,
some would lose money and, as
with the schoolmasters, most of
us may be presumed to glow with
self-righteousness and say it just
“isn’t done.”
While it would be quite un-
realistic to belittle either the
effect upon the national economy
of a voluptuous round of wage-
increases or a series of stoppages
there is, in fact, substantial
resistance among the workers to
the strong-arm tactics that have
received so much notice of late.
Again, to be realistic, this attitude
is not wholly altruistic or far-
sighted.
The incident at Scunthorpe,
when the electricians rebelled
against the Communist tyranny
of their union bosses, arose
simply because they didn’t want
to strike. They stood to lose
money, despite the generous
strike-allowance. They had no
grievance against the manage-
• ment. And they were somewhat
embarrassed to notice that their
employers were sympathetic
when, because of the fear of
losing their cards, the men finally
had to yield to the dictates of
their union.
It was not a pretty picture.
Their president, an avowed
Communist, came down from
London to give them a “fatherly
talk.” Skilled at handling meet-
ings, he called for a show of
hands. When that obviously
pointed to a majority against
striking he preferred not to
“waste time” over a count.
Then, against noisy interruption
and walkings-out, he could make
little ground with pleas for
loyalty, so had to resort to the
direst of threats. The discipline
of . the “closed shop” won the
day, but it was anything but a
splendid victory. Seven men
resigned rather than submit, and
the union executive was forced
into a hurried change of tactics.
Tire Electrical Trades Union is
entirely under Communist direc-
tion. There is cause to believe
that it has overreached itself.
More Fair Shares
The national executive of the
Labor party has amplified its
programme of action, “Challenge
to Britain,” which was put out
in time for the annual conference
last September. The pamphlet is
not likely to cause much flutter-
ing in either Labor constituencies
or' the Conservative Central
Office. The object is twofold: to
satisfy the emotional appetites
of those well to the Left of
centre, and to lay down some
intentions as a basis for vote-
catching.
Whoever fancies himself as the
next Labor Chancellor of the
Exchequer will agree, as will
Mr. Butler, with the cautionary
preamble. But he will be con-
siderably less happy about find-
ing the money for all the great
works that are implied or
promised. On top of this there
will be all manner of committees
to put things right, from a per-
manent Sterling Area Organisa-
tion to consumer councils. Be-
sides further nationalisation
(where necessary in the public
interest) Labor will also introduce
legislation “to place the neces-
sary powers for ensuring full
employment on a. permanent
basis.” It will encourage private
savings and, in order to equalise
incomes, impose direct taxation
upon capital above a certain
(unspecified) income.
The one innovation is a
promise to “implement the
1 policy of equal pay for men and
women” Both parties are com-
mitted to this step. But there
are two Qualifications One is
that the national economy must
be able to stand it; and the other
is thatjt will apply, at first, only
to the Government services The
Labor party, so short of any
policy that depends upon practice
rather than myth, evidently hopes
that equal pay will be a sure
vote-winner.
Babes in Hollywood
Clifford Odets’s “The Big
Knife” (Duke of York’s Theatre)
is a sultry affair. Heat, jagged
nerves, high-liying, frustration
and lots and lots of money form
the background to a pitiless story
of degradation.
Mr. Odets has chosen a set-
ting, Hollywood, that he knows
well. And the fabulous salary
Zl) that influenced him away from
the “one-for-all” spirit of the
Group Theatre does not seem m
any way to have minted his
dislike of film studios. He fairly
shouts his hatred, laying on con-
tempt with merciless jabs
His message seems to be that
even if money nnd drink fell to
corrupt, leave the rest to Holly-
wood. The evil producer will
stop at nothing to get his way.
He blackmails Castle, the public’s
idol, into signing a long contract
and is not averse to murderous
intent towards one of the star's
paramours , who is given to blab-
bing in her cups. Inevitably
Castle succumbs, notwithstand-
ing his treasure of a wife, and
ultimately severs his vems. The
powers of evil, with an ironic
touch of gruesome publicity,
prevail.
So a taut and strong play
(although redeemed by pungent
and sensitive acting) rather
slithers into turgid melodrama.
Sam Wanamaker js both pro-
docer and chief actor. He plays
Castle as a neurotic cry-baby,
without a semblanse of faded
greatness —a dramatic short-
coming that the more objective
approach of an outside producer
might have corrected.
As the sorely-tested but incor-
ruptible wife Renee Asherson
radiates a marked, if faint, gleam
of purity. Another to emerge
from the cesspool of graft with a
bright, shining face is the star’s
agent (Meier Tzelniker), who
lives magnificently to pit Right
against Might. Two juicy
examples of woman-gone-wrong,
one through neglect and the other
through drink, are given over-
flowing -projection by Heather
Stannard and Queenslander
Diane Cilento. And the hateful
producer (Frederick Valk)
appears visibly to swell with
devilish resolution and
indigenous badness.
Not an evening for the film-
struck.
Little Things
No longer does junior enjoy
the shows that his parents did.
The ice-show and television have
given new stimulation to little
minds (are they really so little?).
The traditional January fare is
dead as Dean Farrar’s Eric and,
to modern children, equally
insupportable. But a tribute is
due to Vittorio Podrecca’s
Piccoli Marionettes both for their
uncanny human idiosyncrasies
and for having triumphed over
the sophistication of our
juveniles. The Piccoli Theatre
by its nature must appeal to all
children from three to 93 and of
all nations. The voluntary
censorship imposed somewhat
inhibits the puppets’ natural pre-
dilection for taking off their
masters with such cruel truth.
But any suspicion that they might
have proved too childish a draw
was quickly dispelled by personal
appearances on television, where
their artistry immediately
dominated the screen.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
CO
UJ
CO
UJ
CO
o
M
o
o
u
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you in any of these matters —providing expert and permanent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed of Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT for the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company—or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees <“
will meet your Personal Needs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated la Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charleviue
UXIS
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Drug Houses of Australia
r THIS group of Australian drug-houses
A got together about 23 years ago to
mitigate the effects of aggressive com-
petition, reduce overhead and gain
advantages on the buying side. It manu-
factures and distributes ethical and
proprietary drugs and medicines, as well
as cosmetics, toilet and • other prepara-
tions, and makes medical and scientific
instruments, etc. The manufacturing and
wholesale units controlled by the parent
holding co. are scattered throughout the
Commonwealth and now comprise;
New South Wales:
Elliotts and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd., Hud-
sons Eumenthol Chemical Co, Pty., Ltd.,
Clements Torn® Pty,, Ltd., Acton Laboratories
(Australia) Pty., Ltd., Elliott Taylor Pty.,
Ltd.
Victoria:
Felton Grimwade and Duerdjns Pty., Ltd.,
Felton Grimwade Dental Co. Pty., Ltd.,
J. Bosisto and Co. Pty., Ltd.
Queensland:
Taylors Elliotts Pty., Ltd., A. M. Bickford
and Sons, Ltd., Jennings Elliott Dental Coy.
Pty., Ltd.
South Australia: \
A. M. Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Bickfords
Dental, Ltd.
Western Australia:
Felton Grimwade and Bickford Pty., Ltd.
Tasmania:
Fairthorne and Son Pty., Ltd.
In addition the parent owns interests,
not involving control, in Beetle Elliott,
Ltd., Woolwich-Chemical Co. Pty. and
Bismuth Products Pty.
Although the ords. have never failed
to receive a div., the rate has always
been moderate, the average being 6 p.c.
for the 23 years to the close of last
accounts —lowest \\ p.c. in 1933 and
highest 8|- p.c. for 1951. In the early
stages, before World War 11, competi-
tion from British, German, French and
U.S, interests kept earnings and divs.
moderate. The war shut out imports and
provided the group with fresh manu-
facturing opportunities, of which it made
the most, but price and other controls
held down net earnings, and continued
to do so well into the post-war era.
Nevertheless, profits benefited from
rapidly-expanding output and sales in a
sheltered post-war market, thanks largely
to quick growth of population and “full”
employment at high and rising wage-
rates, especially for females, which
helped to bump up sales of cosmetics,
etc.
Earnings reached their peak in 1951.
During the 1952 term imported drugs
and proprietary medical and other
preparations flooded the market, costs
advanced faster than turnover, there was
some price-cutting, and net earnings for
the year dropped by £77,138. But worse
was to follow, mainly because of the
rfeed to reduce stocks at cut prices on
a contracting market. Although imports
for 1952-53 Were practically back to
1951-52 levels, thanks to legislative
restrictions, they were coming in at
much reduced price-levels. However,
turnover, down 10 p.c. for the first half
of the term, finished up only 1.6 p.c.
below the previous year’s. Yet there was
a sharp contraction of £lBB,OOO (51.3
p.c.) in net earnings, for reasons already
stated;
Drug Houses and Subsidiaries.*
( Dividends —• Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.!
1949 247,128 6000 7 p.c.=231,350 9,778 1,600,870
Written off a/c subsidiary, £26,592 .. 1,574,278
Unexplained additions, £52,997 .. 1,627,275
1950 357,690 6000 8 p.c.=264,400 87,290 1,714,565
Share premiums, £303,924.. ... 2,018,489
Unexplained additions, £31,177 .. 2,049,666
1951 443,629 6000 8i p.c. =285,707 151,922 2,201,588
Share premiums,” £157,394 .. .. 2,358,982
From tax reserve, £68,415 .. .. 2,427,397
Unexplained additions, £49,828 .. 2,477,225
1952 366,491 6000 8 p.c.=299,755 60.736 2,537,961
Written off intangibles, £595 .. 2,537,366
Profit sale property, £19,813 , •• 2,557,179
Tax overprovided, £8573 .. ..2,560,752
Unexplained additions, £33,508 ~ 2,594,260
1953 178,491 6000 6 p.c.=233,981 2,532,770
* After deducting outsiders’ interest. f Subject to
• intangibles, now £15155,471.
The £178,491 of profit was the lowest
since 1939, and was written after allow-
ing £116,726 (down £4121) for deprecia-
tion and £163,400 (down £195,682) for
taxation. It was enough to pay the pref.
div. (£6000) and show 4.4 p.c. on the
£3,999,687 of ord. capital as against
9.6, 13, 10.6, 7.2 and 8.8 p.c. back to
1948. Because of the abnormal factors
affecting the year’s trading, and the
improvement in outlook toward and after
the close of accounts, only two points
were chipped off the div., reducing it to
6 p.c. All that leaves out of the reckon-
ing various reserve adjustments inter-
lined in the table.
The financial structure was brought
into better balance;
■ D.H.A. and Subsidiaries,
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £3.702.258 £3.996,808 £3,999,687
Reserves .. .. 2,201,588 2,537,961 2,532,770
Outside interests.. 1,605 1,753 3,817
Mortgages ~ 44,250 44,250 49,147
Sundry creditors.. 2,344,485 2,187,767 1,509,996
Tax reserve ~ 544,043 878,820 177,180
Final div. .. 169,166 299,755 233,981,
£9,007,345 £9,397,114 £8,506,678
Freehold, plant, etc. 1,122,581 1,341,611 1,462,200
Shares, etc. .. 282, p 74 269,510 267,089
Stocks .. .. 4,094,449 4,387,179 3,368,804
Book debts .. 2,203,798 2,157,310 2,054,424
Cash, etc. .. 98,921 43,299 153,776
Suspense account.. 70,799 42,766 44,814
Excess cost shares 812,413 817,990 818,393
Goodwill, etc. .. 322,310 337,449 * 337,078
£9,007,345 £9,397,114 £8,506,678
Reductions of £1,018,375 in stocks (in
at cost or under) and of £102,886 in
book-debts enabled £627,771 to be
slashed off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, including the co.’s bankers,
£120,589 to be added to freeholds and
plant, and £110,477 to cash, etc.
As for prospects, the chairman says:
We cannot foretell what the course of
overseas markets may be, and as the ser-
vice we render necessitates carrying at many
points stocks of an extremely wide range
of goods and materials, the main cause of
the year’s unsatisfactory results is a risk
that will always be with us. Its effects
may be diminished, 'but never eliminated,
and with that warning in mind, our present
trading can be considered quite satisfactory.
The market, which expects the co. to
return to an 8 p.c. div. basis, prices the
f.-p. £1 ords. at 31s. lid., at which figure
the return would be only 3.7 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div., or 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distri-
bution. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 275. 4d. The well-protected prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change,
John Vicars & Co., Ltd.
■pOUNDED in 1873, the Vicars busi-
ness is now a firmly-entrenched
leader in the Australian woollen-textile
industry. Its big, fully-integrated mill
at Marfickville (N.S.W.), assisted by
branch-factories at Bulli, Oatley and St.
Marys, turns out highly-regarded woollen
and worsted piecegoods for clothing,
and yarns for manufacturing knitted-
goods, cloths, etc. It also does an export
trade in carbonised wool and wool-
wastes. Two subsidiaries, at Alexandria
and Fivedock, produce high-class woollen
cloths and worsted piecegoods. Among
other investments, Vicars has a 48 p.c.
interest in Sydney Woollen Mills Pty.,
Parramatta, whose main line is yarns for
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd., the con-
trolling (51 p.c.) shareholder.
It wasn’t until 1951 that the board
approached the open market for capital.
The public put up £381,604 in
254,403 £1 ords, at 10s. premium, which
raised paid capital to £1,350,000
£300,000 of it in 5 p.c. pref. money. No
assets were written-up in the books,
though independent valuations of factory
properties, at £283,266, totalled £732,800.
Here are group profits (struck after tax
at approximately current rates) stated by
the prospectus:
1940 .. ..£76,881 1 1949 .. ..£123,173
1947 .. .. 84,061 1 1950 .. .. 201,547
1948 .. .. 81,943 1
Earnings for the next three years were
depressed by the collapse of wool prices
and a shrinkage in demand for wool-
products, the effects of which were most
severe in 1952. The co.’s performance
in the face of these difficulties is an
encouraging indication of its strength,
technical and financial:
John Vicabs and Subsidiaries.
r Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 4|p.e. Ord. serves, serves.f
. £ £ £ £ £
’51..128,836 14,250 5 p.c.*= 52,500 *62,086 692,511
Add sundry adjustments, £7886 .. 700,397
’52.. 84,695 14,250 5 p.c.*= 52,500 17,945 718,342
Deduct sundry adjustments, £2178 .. 716,164
’53..126,421 14,250 5 p.c.*= 52,500 59,671 776,835
t After deducting intangibles, now £158,283.
* Tax-free.
Last term’s improvement of £41,726 in
net earnings followed better demand in
the July half-year, and a partial recovery
in wool prices. The £126,421 of profit
was written after charging £26,724 for
depreciation and £62,300 for tax, and
was enough to cover the pref. div. and
10.7 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
6.7 p.c. and 10.9 p.c. in the two preced-
ing years. After a steady 5 p.c, tax-free
payout to the ords., £59,671 remained to
lift reserves to £775,835.
Higher wool prices and bigger demand
show up in increases of £206,137 and
£192,021 respectively in stocks and book-
debts. To finance these movements and
to add £14,414 and £95,733 net to free-
holds and plant, the co. used surplus
profits, added £92,741 to creditors’
balances, etc., and went to its bankers
for a further £361,868:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. lyuz. 1953.
Pref'. . . . . £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord 1,050,000 1,050,000 1,050,000
Reserves .. .. 692,511 718,342 775,835
Outside interests 23,589 24,937 26,272
Overdrafts .. 847,584 726,151 1,088,019
Creditors* .. 405,832 154,243 246,984
Final divs. .. 33,375 33,375 83,375
£3,352,891 £3,007,048 £3,520,485
Freeholds .. 367,328 365,812 880,226
Plant, etc. .. 459,006 489,792 585,525
Sha'res other cos. 81,017 85,830 90,616
Stocks .. ' . . 1,582,861 1,650,262 1,856,389
Debtors .. . . 862,203 414,789 606,810
Cash .. .. 476 573 1,019
£3,352,891 £3,007,048 £3,520,485
* Includes provision for tax.
The year’s decrease in net current assets
(£1,095,840) was £56,005. Notwithstand-
ing the heavy debt to the bank, the
financial structure is sound and well
balanced.
At present, prospects for a better show-
ing at next balance are bright. The
improvement in output and sales, which
has continued in the first half of the
current term, looks like being sustained
for the next six months at least.
Necessarily heavy stocks of wool present
a latent risk, but a severe price-decline
isn’t likely in the immediate future.
Vicars’ enterprising management has
now decided to get a stake in the young
but rapidly - growing synthetic - textile
industry by forming, jointly with Bruck
Mills, the Victorian rayon-fabrics’weaver,
a new co. to spin mixture-fibre (natural
and synthetic) yarns at Bulli (N.S.W.).
Dominating the market’s, valuation of
Vicars’ ordinary scrip is the modest
5 p.c. div.-rate, which at the current price
of 255. for the £1 shares gives a yield of
only 4 p.c. The tax-free nature of the
distribution, however, improves the
effective return to most shareholders,
and for that reason it is the board’s
policy to keep the rate at 5 p.c., thus
retaining more profits to strengthen the
co.’s resources.
Remaining tax-free funds are enough
for nearly six years at the 5 p.c.-rate,
but the tax-free” arrangement expires
in January, 1958. Thus the board would
have to step the div. up to p.c to
take advantage of all the special funds.
What is decided in this respect will no
doubt depend on earnings and on other
factors in the next four years. In any
case, the co.’s long and successful his-
tory suggests that considerably better
than 5 p.c. can be expected in the long
run, and that the current price for the
ords. is reasonably attractive. Net assets
cover is 345. 9d. per £1 ord., book-values.
Clyde Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
ORIGINALLY it was the Clyde En-
gineering Co., Ltd., engaged mainly
in heavy jobbing work. During the
decade to 1943 the co. suffered a rathefr
severe convalescence after the slump of
the early 1930’5. But war and post-
war developments altered the. picture,
apd the business has developed 'into a
holding co. and group of subsidiary
undertakings engaged in a wide range of
manufacturing and merchandising activi-
ties, which have brightened the outlook
for shareholders by giving earnings an
impetus that the old heavy-engineering
section had failed to provide.
The heavy section has lately ceased to
.be a lame duck, thanks to the advent of
the diesel-electric locomotive, which the
co. turns out under agreement with
General Motors (U.S.). Because of big
savings in running and servicing costs,
these locos have superseded the old
steam type in the U.S., and look like
doing so in Australia, too, when enough
money becomes available to finance the
change.’ On the Trans-Australia section
of the Commonwealth railways the co.
claims that operating costs have been
reduced from 183.17 d. per loco-mile for
steam to 47.55 d. for diesel-electric trac-
tion, a direct saving of 74 p.c., and that
1 some individual diesel locos have run over
250,000 miles with no repairs expendi-
ture other than routine servicing. The
co. has also made 21 of these locos for
the Victorian Government, and has a
contract in hand for delivery of nine
similar engines to the Government of
Pakistan.
T|ie operating subsidiaries are:
Clyde Engineering Co. Pty., which took
over the heavy-engineering works at Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Paul and Gray Pty.
(N.S.W.), ship’s chandlers, etc., which also
has subsidiaries of its own in Queensland
and New Zealand. Clyde Batteries Pty.
(N-S.W.), all types acid batteries. John
Carruthers and Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
mechanical, electrical and earth-moving
equipment. Green Point Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co. (N.S.W.), ship-repairers,
engineers, etc. A. C. Willard and Co.
(N.S.W.), stainless-steel, chemical and food-
processing plants. Materials Handling Pty.,
Ltd. (N.S.W.), distributes products made
under licence from Automotive Transporta-
tion Co. (U.S.), and handles Italian-made
tractors and prefabricated dwellings, etc.
Clyde Sales Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.), has
branches in the principal capital cities, and
is the merchandising outlet for some of the
subsidiaries.
Exactly what each contributes to the
pool is not disclosed in the published
accounts. Although the Palil and Gray
and Clyde Sales cos. had not fully
recovered from the trade recession which
developed late in 1951, all subsidiaries
operated on a profitable basis last term.
The chairman says, “Indications are that
this position will be maintained during
the current year.” He also stressed the
importance to local industry of adequate
tariff protection, because labor and
materials costs are so much higher here
than overseas. The danger lies, as it


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,P00-
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Missing Friend
WOULD any person knowing the present
whereabouts of ALEXANDER THOMSON
HELLER, formerly of 1 Spring Street,
Melbourne, and later of Barwon Heads,
Victoria, and “Cobramunga,” near Bar-
ham, N.S.W., please communicate with
McCAY & THWAITES. Solicitors. 360
Collins Street, Melbourne ?
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 787 of 1953.
TO BESSIE LYDIA WALKER formerly of
27 Melody Street Ooogee. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Decree for Restitution has been
made requiring you to return home and
render conjugal rights to your husband
HAROLD WALKER at 27 Melody Street
Ooogee within 60 days from this date
AND to file in the Divorce Office King
Street Sydney within four days from the
expiration of the 60 days a certificate of
your compliance with the decree You may
obtain reasonable expenses for your Teturn
upon application from JOHNW. SALMON,
21a Belmore Road Randwick AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that if you
fail to comply with the said Decree your
husband may petition for judicial separa-
tion or divorce. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
0e »dwa4 a
m
■
m.
■
■
■
m
tbepi
exclusive ROLL|
I RAZOR \
aT thb budget
REDUCED
PRICE
N
%
world famous predecessor. In its slim streamlined case, the “VISCOUNT”
incorporates all the tried and trusted Rolls Razor features, such as hollow-
ground, finely-tempered blade which gives years and years of perfect
shaving and is honed and stropped in its case.
ROUS RAZOR
MAKERS OF THE WORLD FAMOUS ONE BLADE SAFETY
■- 70/83 6$
Here’s the NEW Rolls
■ Razor “ VISCOUNT” an
entirely redesigned version of its
always has, in the possibility of
a sharp recession overseas caus-
ing painful readjustments to our
internal economy.
After setting aside £107,389
(up £32,273) for depreciation and
earmarking £133,850 (down
£20,650) for taxation, the
improvement in last term’s net
earnings of the group was
£55,241:
Clyde Industries and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends——., Re-
June, Loss. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.* ‘
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1949.. 38,693 5 6 54,158 162,911
Added intangibles, £1975 .. 160,936
Net reduction reserves, £492.. 160,444
1950. .103,650 5 7 68,036 196,058
Surplus sale assets, £58,720.. 254,778
Revaluat’n assets, etc., £486,681 741,459
Net unexpl’d reduction, £8282 733,177
1951. .188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
Added intangibles, £7275 .. 799,163
Unexplained reduction, £lBB6 797,277
1952. .164,870 5 10 123,744 838,403
1953. .220,111 5 10 160,000 898,514
* After deducting intangibles, now •
£12,786.
The £220,111 of profit claimed
was enough to pay the pref. divs,
(£30,000) and show 14.6 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against
14.3, 18.6, 12.6, 3.4 and 11.3 p.c.
back to 1948. The £60,111 that
remained after payment of the
10 p.c. div. lifted reserves
£898,514 in excess of intangibles
(£12,786). Of the £898,514,
£486,681 came from a revalua-
tion of assets a couple of years
ago.
With the fear of shortages
receding into the background,
stocks—heavy at the close of
accounts in 1952 —were reduced
by £484,195 and debtors’ balances
by £434,128:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital—
Pref. .. 600,000 600,000 600,000
Ord. . . 848.525 1,300,000 1,300,000
Reserves .. 806,438 838,403 898,515
Overdraft . 743,985 1,469,001 826,570
Creditors . 827,148 1,174,837 878,880
Final div. 42,427 50,568 65,000
3.868.523 5,432,809 4,568,915
Freeholds,
etc. .. 860.447 938,409 1,009,655
Plant .. 828,446 947,333 941,406
Stocks .. 1,429,533 2,177,786 1,693,591
Debtors .. 704,809 1,341,424 907,296
Investments 11,000 5,975 7,850
Cash, etc., 34,288 21,882 9,117
3.868.523 5.432,809 4,568,915
The co. was thus able to lop
£642,431 off the overdraft and
reduce the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £296,007
Though there was a small drop
(£5207) in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£847,454, including
investments), due to a net addi-
tion of £71,246 to freeholds, the
whole financial structure was
brought into better balance.
Stocks appear at the lower of
cost or market-value.
The sharemarket sums up the
risks by pricing the f.-p. £1 ords.
at 255. 9d. (245. 3d. a year ago)
to return 7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The 5 p.c. first and
second prefs. at 17s. 6d. and 17s.
respectively yield 5.7 p.c. and
5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £9 6s. 7d. firsts,
£8 6s. 7d. seconds and 335. lOd.
ords,
Danks Holdings, Ltd.
r pHE price of the f.-p. 10s.
-*■ shares in Danks Holdings,
whose offshoot conducts the well-
known manufacturing and
wholesale hardware business, has
fallen from 13s. in September last
to 11s. 3d. —lower earnings for
the year to June 30 and a cut in
the div. from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c. were
responsible. Considering the
concern’s high standing and its
past record, 11s. 3d. appears to
be a reasonable figure for the
shares: the yield on a 7 p.c. div.
is 6.2 p.c., and net tangible cover,
based on assets at cost less pro-
visions, is 10s. Id. apiece.
John Danks founded the busi-
ness in 1859, at Melbourne, to
sell plumbers’ brassware and
supplies. There are now fac-
tories at Melbourne and Sydney,
which turn out brass plumbers’
and builders’ fittings and hard-
ware, lead-sheet and -pipe, wind-
mills, irrigation equipment,
tanks, spouting, down-piping,
pumps, valves, hose-fittings, etc.
Besides its own products, the co.
distributes to all States builders’
hardware and building boards,
sanitary-ware, sewerage fittings,
tools of trade, paints, electrical
and motor accessories, wire,
wire-netting, galvanised iron,
domestic hardware, cutlery and
other lines.
The holding co. bought the
ord. capital in John Danks and
Son Pty. in December, 1951,
issuing £559,560 of its own scrip
in payment; and in the follow-
ing June certain shareholders
sold 293,000 10s. shares at par,
the purpose being to side-step
private-co. tax and gain listing
on Sydney and Melbourne
’Changes. Valuations of free-
holds disclosed a surplus oyer
of £258,456, which
wasn’t, however; taken into the
accounts. Adjusted profits of the
subsidiary, after allowing for tax
at current rates, were as follows:
John Danks and Son Pty., Ltd. ,
1948 ..£62,540 I 1950 .. £66,830
1949 .. 61,620 I 1951 .. 119,400
Earnings for the next two years
were disappointing:
Danes Holdings and Subsidiary.
Re- Defl-
June, Profit. , — tained. cit.*
£ £ £ £
Prelim, exes, written off, £9788 14,584
1952.. 8 p.c.= 46,845 13,788 846
Intangibles disappear, £B6 .. 760
Res.*
1953.. 47.289 7 p.c.= 40,990 6,299 5,539
* After deducting goodwill on consolida-
' tion, now £239,819.
Sales in 1952 were a record, but
heavier costs and the need to
write-down stocks at the year-
end bit deeply into the net result.
The trouble last term was the set-
back in the building industry and
generally tight business condi-
tions ; in the early part of the
year turnover shrank while costs
continued to rise. Trade picked
up towards the end of the term
with a revival in building activity
and in retail turnovers, and the
improvement has been main-"
tained since. Prospects for a
better showing at next balance
are good, though competition in
many of the co.’s lines is keen.
Last term’s £47,289 of profit
was struck after, charging £21,013
for depreciation (down £437) and
setting aside £40,000 for the tax-
gatherer (down £33,000), and
equalled 8.1 p.c. on the holding
co.’s £585,563 paid capital, as
against 10.4 p.c. in 1952.
During the year the co. spent
£57,974 net on plant and £14,258
on freeholds; the necessary
finance came from £40,000 raised
on mortgage, a reduction of
£25,874 in net current assets
(£519,645) and surplus earnings:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £585,563 £585,563
Reserves . . .. 5>539
Outside interests.. 256,250
Mortgages.. •• 100,000 140,000
OverdST . . . . 344.627 352 552
Tax provision .. 65 -969 9
Creditors 264,979 245,948
Final div. .. 46,845 23,423
£1,664,229 £1,649,275
Freeholds, etc, .. 22 ®’„ 93 ooa’ovq
Plant etc. .. 166,955 224,929
Stocks . 823,344 757.812
Debtors .. •• 42 ;Hoq
Cash, etc. .. 2,4 <0 2,433
Deficit .. •• 846 ~
£1,864,229 £1,649,275
The co. has built a new ware-
house on the site of the Alex-
andria (Sydney) factory, and
intends to sell its Pitt-street free-
hold, which is no longer required.
This property was valued in
February, 1952, at £277,500 ; its
sale should result-in a big capital
profit, as well as improving the
i financial set-up. Outside interests
represent £250,000 of 5 p.c.
■ redeemable prefs. issued by the
offshoot and held by a life-office,
and accrued div. thereon. At
June 30 remaining tax-free funds
were equal to just under 3 p.c. on
the holding co.’s capital.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
The price of the co.’s f.-p.
ss. shares advanced from 13s.
to 14s. over the 12 months to
December 2 last, shot up to
17s. 6d. on December 17 and
had advanced to 225. 6d. last
week. The rise followed a
mid-December announcement
that, in conjunction with
Uranium Mines, N.L., the co.
had pegged uranium leases on
the Dundas field (W.A.), and
that “indications are that the
occurrence is of considerable
importance.”
On January 12, 1954, a joint
statement by the two cos. said
there were two prospects of note
on the Dundas field. The first
was an extensive area of brecci-
ated granite, where two
trenches, 40ft. apart, showed
yellow uranium material.
Further testing of the area by
surface-trenching is in pro-
gress. It is expected that the
grade of the deposit will im-
prove at depth, owing to sur-
face-leaching. The second is on
Dundas Lake (salt and dry ex-
cept after heavy rain), where a
“high degree” of radioactivity
was recorded for a distance of
miles, but where deposits of
uranium have yet to be ’found.
It is thus plain that : (1) the
second prospect is of little or no
commercial importance at the
moment, (2) a lot more pros-
pecting and development will
have to be done before the com-
mercial importance of the first
find is established, and (3) in
the light of the joint announce-
ment of January 12, the earlier
claim that the occurrence was
of * “considerable importance”
was a little premature, to say
the least.
When the extent and uranium
assay of the deposit are estab-
lished the question of costs, in
which transport might loom
large, will need to be considered.
All uranium-ore of commercial-
grade produced has to be sold
to the Government. Minimum
prices for ore delivered to the
concentrating - plant now in
course of erection at Rum
Jungle range from £lO a ton
for stuff assaying 0.25 p.c.
uranium-oxide up to £4O a ton
for 1 p.c. ore, which is regarded
as very high-grade. Since £lO a
ton is equivalent to a gold re-
covery of 12.9dwt. per ton, the
price can be regarded as good.
The Government intends to
erect additional concentrating-
plants on new fields if and when
their extent and value warrant
such action.
Backbone of the Norseman
venture at present is the mining
of pyritic ore in the co.’s Iron
King leases at Norseman
(W.A.). The co.’s near-by gold-
mine, the Norseman, ceased
operations early in 1947, when
the grade fell to 2.6dwt. per ton.
Here a hew exploration pro-
gramme is now in progress, but
so far without conclusive re-
sults. On the Iron King leases
a new shaft, expected to come
into full-scale operation by mid-
-1954, has been sunk, and a pro-
gramme of underground- and
plant-development is in, hand,
the aim being to lift mill output
of pyritic concentrates to about
20,000 tons a month. The cost
is 'to be met mainly out of
current earnings.
For the year to October 31,
1953, the co. netted £62,049 (up
£11,236), or 33.1 p.c., on its
£187,500 of capital. The div.,
which was lifted from 15 p.c. to
20 p.c., called for £37,500. As
capital outlay on development,
etc., eases and production is
stepped up earnings and distri-
butions should benefit.
Last term’s profit was arrived
at after writing-off £182,048 for
development, etc., and allowing
£45,091 (up £1678) for deprecia-
tion and plant-replacement. It
was won from production of
25,569 tons (up 3259 tons)
sulphur, worth £624,852 (up
£117,976), an average of £24.4
(up £1.7) per ton. The mill
handled 85,783 tons (up 851
tons) of 26.5 p.c. ore for 20,101
tons (up 992 tons) sulphur, and
15,803 tons (up 6064 tons) of
high-grade' ore (34.6 p.c. sul-
phur) was railed direct to manu-
facturers. Working costs in-
creased by 7s. 4Jd., reaching
655. per ton ore.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £193,560, of
which stores, etc., accounted for
£60,770. Current liabilities
amounted to £108,083.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Sydney, generally so leisurely a house-
wife, has really bestirred herself during
the past few weeks to have her home
all swept and garnished for the Royal
visit. True, there have been some hur-
ried thrusting of things into cupboards
as it were (the Minister for the Navy
guaranteed to have all hulks on the north
side of the harbor towed out of sight in
time), some covering-up of mildewed
spots on the wall with Auntie’s Spanish
shawl (the unfinished works at Circular
Quay have been draped with streamers
and decorations) and there are still several
shabby spots which it is hoped will not
catch the Royal eye (the local councils
have promised to have all litter and
rubbish on the Royal route cleared up
wherever possible before the great day).
Nonetheless the city is looking really
gay both by day and by night. The
great bulk of public buildings have been
handsomely decorated with brilliant
streamers, banners and ’crescents of
flags. Perhaps the most striking of these
is the G.P.0., where the decorators have
concentrated on large flags and banners
in good proportion to the size of the
building, which seems to be alive with
color. The Lands Department, the
Public Works, the Education Building,
etc., are all magnificently draped and
help to make the Quay-end of town a
vivid spectacle, for here, too, many of
the shipping firms have decked their
buildings lavishly.
The retail stores have shown imagina-
tion in their preparations, Anthony
Hordern’s enormous store has x?een
completely repainted a pale duck-egg
blue, against which blue-and-yellow
streamers stretch from roof to ground-
floor and an outsize message of loyalty
is written in gold on red. Farmers’ have
two life-size models of the Queen on
horseback against a background of red
with the Royal Coat of Arms worked in
wools. David Jones’ display candy-
striped awnings and the biggest flag in
the Southern Hemisphere (or maybe the
world).
Mark Foys’ feature windows showing
all the previous Queens of England
modelled in gold with the accoutre-
ments of royalty in gold around them.
Foys’ also have the biggest full-length
picture of the Queen (wearing the yellow
“wattle” Evening gown).
The Queensland Insurance Building in
Pitt-street has the biggest head-and-
shoulders portrait (that smiling one with
the great bouquet of roses). There are
hundreds of crowns as motifs for decor-
ations ; the one on top of the MX.C.
Insurance building seems to be the
largest —it is quite fantastically
xxxxos.
There are to be 11 arches of welcome
along the route, but of these only six
had been erected at the time of going to
press. Across Park-Street is the City of
Sydney Arch formed of four boomerangs
in polished wood, decorated with
aboriginal motifs and surmounted by
the Crest of Sydney, and its motto, “I
Take But I Surrender.” To this Letter it
seemed really beautiful and graceful.
Near by in Hyde Park the statue of
Captain Cook (God bless him!) has been
polished up and his name picked out in
gold.
At the top of Macquarie-street the
Retail Traders’ Arch features the Royal
Crest with Dieu et mon Droit on a
canopy of pale-blue. Lower down, the
Chamber of Manufactures’ Arch shows
a series of symbolic pictures lit from
within. The subjects are a little hard
to identify, but at the bottom of the
curve there is a readily-recognisable tea-
pot —a nice touch. The third arch in
Macquarie-street is that of the Auto-
motive Industries —rather a garish yellow
with very large wildflowers and very
small motor-vehicles. It is made to
swivel, one hears, but it wasn’t swivelling
when last seen by this Letter.
Macquarie-street, it is understood, has
taken the wild-flower as its special motif,
but only a small proportion of the doc-
tors’ buildings in this boulevard seemed
to have done much in the way of decora-
tion. However, most of the brass plates
had been polished up very brilliantly for
the occasion.
Bridge-street looks really lovely, for
not only has it so many large buildings
in it “dressed to kill,” but also its poplars
are looking green and leafy and rather
coy with the clusters of pink petunias at
their bases, and the three arches which
span.it promise to be outstanding. The
Overseas Shipping Arch, near George-
street, is a graceful curve and has a globe
of the world suspended from its sum-
mit, The Agricultural Arch is to be
decorated with produce such as we see
at the Royal Easter Show, and the Wool
Industries Arch has murals of sheep
grazing, being shorn, etc., and a crown
of what looks like wool-holders in many
colors.
The flowers in both Hyde Park and the
Botanic Gardens are a credit to the gar-
deners, considering how dry the summer
has been. The Sandringham Memorial
Garden is like a tiny sandstone amphi-
theatre, with red, white and blue phlox
encircling a fountain inlaid with an abo-
riginal design (and a green lawn). The
Archibald Fountain at the Macquarie-
street end of the park is really working,
one is glad to report, and there did not
seem- to be an undue number of bits of
orange-peel in it, either.
Not only is the Archibald Fountain
illuminated at night but the Memorial
Garden, many public buildings, all the
arches, the Bridge and the Conservatorium
(with notes of music bubbling round it).
There is a procession of pastel-colored
lamps from the bottom of Macquarie-
street to Government House, and flowers
in the park and various decorative dis-
plays on private buildings. Add these to
the normal glitter of Sydney’s neon lights
and her harbor illuminations and one
can perhaps understand the politican’s
flight of rhetoric when he said that
Sydney was to become a “city of
enchantment.”
Among those who will receive an
honor from the hands of the Queen her-
self during the Royal visit will be Mrs.
J. A. Lawson, who will be made a
Member of the British Empire. Mrs.
Lawson is the wife of the Country-party
member for Murray, and she is known
throughout the electorate as a tireless
worker for the interests of her husband’s
constituents. Her special interests have
been the Country Women’s Association
(she was Deniliquin’s foundation-presi-
dent), the Bush Nursing Association, the
Far West Children and the Red Cross.
Her services for these organisations and
her patriotic work during the war have
won her this distinction from the Queen.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
New shows which opened in Sydney
last week for the Queen’s visit were “Call
Me Madam” at the Theatre Royal and
~“Hot Ice” at the Empire. “Call Me
Madam” has music by Irving Berlin,
and, according to the cast, the political
tilts are quickly appreciated by Australian
audiences, even though the references
are American. If, for instance, Evie
Hayes, who plays the lead, answers the
phone and says “Hullo, Harry,” Aus-
tralians seem to know it’s Harry Truman
right away and respond appropriately.
Perhaps it is that Australians are so used
to hearing politicians referred to in jokes
that they have developed a sixth-sense in
the matter.
The popularity of ice-shows overseas
seems to be greatly on the increase, with
nearly all vaudeville and pantomime
artists practising-up their skating, so
necessary .is this skill to their livelihood.
During the Christmas season in London
it is rather staggering to learn there was
not one “straight” pantomime . (if, in-
deed, pantomime could ever be called
“straight”), as all the principal boys,
dames, demons, etc., had taken to the
ice.
“Hot Ice” has Australia’s champion
skater, Pat Gregory, in the cast, and she,
too, has played principal-boy on skates
in “Dick Whittington” in London, also.
Wanda in “Rose Marie.” Nearly all the
old musical-comedies are being given a
new lease of life with ice, said Pat.
Also in the cast are Alice Farrer and
Jimmy Carter —who once played princi-
pal-girl and -boy respectively (a novelty!)
in “Puss in Boots” in London —Britta
Rhylan, Reg Redclyffe (he plays a 10ft.-
long xylophone with totem-blocks from
Korean temples) and Nellie Small, who
says that in all her vaudeville career she
has never been out of the mainland of
Australia (not even, to Tasmania —a con-
servative apparently) and a galaxy of
others who not only can sing, dance,
crack jokes, etc., but can balance on ice
while doing so.
* ir ☆
MELECUBNE
Melbourne is something more than
half-dressed for the Royal visit, and the
finishing touches are slowly being applied.
Most of the main streets are a riot of
crowns, multicolored bunting, boomer-
angs and emus. Some city stores are
keeping their decorations a secret until
the last possible moment, but painters
are busy dolling-up buildings, grimed
with the dust of years; among them
Young and Jackson’s Hotel, which is at
long last getting a coat of paint.
« V
Flemington Racecourse, which is
always a joy to behold, will look even
lovelier when the Royal box, members’-
stand and reception-rooms have had their
last decorative touches. All the iron-
work of the members’-stand has been
painted off-white and black. The Royal
dais, in the men’s portion of the mem-
bers’-stand, is to be raised and put
slightly back so that the Royal visitors
will be seen but protected, in some mea-
sure, from too-close scrutiny. Mrs. Guy
Smith, who has advised the V.R.C. coffi-
mittee on the decorations, is also super-
intending the alterations to the Royal
suites in Canberra’s Government House.
Massed groupings of flowers will sur-
round the Royal box at Flemington and,
if possible, will be blue and white. A
deep-blue carpet and French-grey„ chairs
will furnish the Royal box. A reception-
foyer behind the members’-stand will be
specially furnished. The reception-room
will have deep-Wedgwood-blue silk cur-
tains to tone with the gold-patterned blue
carpet. A handsome flower-arrangement,
illuminated from behind, will be set at
one end. A blue-and-cream color-
scheme set against the blue carpet has
been chosen for the Queen’s powder-
room. The committee iuncheon-rooms
will also be given special attention, for
here the Queen and the Duke will lunch
with the chairman and committee.
☆ ☆ ☆
While the thermometer soared up past
the century-mark, mannequins at the Ritz
luncheon paraded for the Press in heavy
suits and topcoats. New trends were
seen in this smart and unusual winter col-
lection from Stell-Ricks; main trend
being the shape of things to come. There
was the shape of the spinning-top, barrel
or cocoon, broad on top, tapering to a
narrow hemline and wrapped around on
a diagonal line. For color, the theme was
black, allied with brown, cocoa, grey,
white and silver. There was a touch
of the ’twenties in most of the coats as
they wrapped round the hips on the
diagonal line; many had the high turtle-
neckline or shawl-collar, set against the
dropped shoulder-line and rounded
sleeves.
Several, suits dispensed with lapels or
collars in favor of a turtle-neckline, and
were often finished with button-trimmed
tabs. The fabric used mostly in these
elegant clothes was tweed, sometimes
with the unexpected contrast of fur or
sparkling rhinestone brooches. “Grand
National” was the name given to a
fitted coat in black English barathea with
the turtle-neck inset with grosgrain. The
deep sleeves were raglan at the back, but
set in at the front. The width of the
sleeves at the back was defined by a
wide V of grosgrain extending down
from each shoulder.
“Staccato” was a bold and black-and-
white broken-check English-tweed jacket,
with the high turtle-neck fastened with
rhinestones and worn with a slim black
skirt. “Grand Prix” Was a wonderful
coat fashioned of creme de cacao hori-
zontal-striped wool and mohair. The
high rounded collar had a crescent-
buttoned tab at the neck. “Beau Brum-
mell” was a black and Edwardian brown-
stripe English worsted barrel-suit. The
jacket was cut away sharply from one
button to show the Brummell waistcoat
underneath. But the highlight of the
entire collection was a theatre coat.
Fashioned of white 'mohair and wool,
it featured the wrap-around line, and its
wide scalloped shawl-collar was beaded
with pearls and crystals.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Royal-visit organisers have asked
the Young Contingent of the Victoria
League to entertain a plumber of naval
officers during the visit of the Queen.
There will be a cocktail-party and sup-
per-dance on Friday, February 26, for
which Mrs. Leslie Moran, of Albany-
road, Toorak, has kindly lent her home.
Mrs. Alec Cook is president of the
Young Contingent and Charmian Watt
is social-secretary.
Wife of the Minister Plenipotentiary
for the Republic of China, Madame T.
C. Chen, is a University graduate. A
charming hostess, she has travelled ex-
tensively, and shares her husband’s love
of sport, especially big tennis. She is
also a lover of classical music and is an
accomplished pianist. The Minister and
Madame Chen have one son, Victor,
who is a student at Canberra Grammar
School. Melbourne “Argus” photo.
Although hair-styles created for the
Royal visit may seem fantastic, in effect
they are very practical —they were
shown at a supper-party at the Aus-
tralia by well-known mannequins. The
hair was cut as short as one-inch all
over the head in several designs, while
others, from two inches, were softly up-
swept into tiny curls. Various tints and
rinses were used in shades varying from
rose-pink to blue-grey and ash-cyclamen.
This parade was arranged by the
directors of Marigny Laboratories; styles
were created by 10 leading hairdressers.
Intended specially for grand occasions,
elaborate effect was achieved by the up-
sweep of feathered curls designed to suit
a tiara. Where more hair was needed for
a coronet or a chignon on top of the
head, switches of matching or other hair
was added. For instance, Bambi Shmith
showed “Poppea,” a hair-style reminis-
cent of a patrician Roman lady. Her
short brown hair, thick with gold dust
and lacquer, was swept back from the
ears and down on the forehead in a
feathery fringe. High on the crown
was a chignon of rose-pink hair,
Betty Jackson’s attractive coiffure had
her short blonde hair tinted smoky-
blue. It was brushed up in a- softly-
curling style and made an effective frame
for a jewelled tiara.
The most fantastic hair-do was the
Lady Peacock coiffure. The short brown
hair was parted in the centre and was
set in sculptured curls around the face.
From the back, cut extremely short and
upswept, waved peacock feathers, and,
to complete the picture, the tips of the
hair were misted with silver.
** * V
Invitations have been issued by the
High Commissioner for Canada and
Mrs. W. A. Irwin to a late-afternoon
party at Giro’s on February 6. The High
Commissioner and his wife are coming
from Canberra for the party, which is
in honor of the captain and officers of
H.M.C.S. Ontario,


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6,
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
HememsA
f i*| P p ?j\¥i “
R
D
o
o
rn
T
. Uki BA-I f j
• i- » jf J*;
|n /v#
e>ss #»o
* •
Vv.
A 7
*>
mo *>
& J}
r
Offi
I «J
A
V f
UK
g trr»L,
W
'x
7
L
SP
*
*3
U<
kr?
*?*■?
- - to
/-
r
/"\ /,
rfr
. «■* .
w "\
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Dobell
Since he first began to Win
the Archibald Prize and for three
or four years swam ’ in a blaze
of limelight which must have
made it extraordinarily difficult
for him to sit down quietly and
paint, William Dobell has be-
come something of a man of
mystery,
“Smith’s Weekly,” before its
sudden demise, said he couldn’t
paint at all, and placarded
Sydney with “The Tragedy of
William Dobell.” Other, more
reliable rumors, said he was stay-
ing on E. J. Hallstrom’s property
in New Guinea and painting very
happily. He made an annual
appearance in the Archibald but
rarely exhibited anywhere else.
Now, at last, at David Jones’s
in Sydney, the fruits of the last
five or • six years are on view.
The show is drawing huge crowds
and the few pictures for sale have
brought big prices (the gallery is
said to have paid over £6OO for a
big, bold slashing green canvas
of the jungle and its inhabitants
in a curious zigzag rhythm).
The best thing about the exhi-
bition is that it is practically all
new work, and there is plenty of
it. Of the 110 exhibits, only
about 10 —such as the Teuton
and Margaret Olley portraits, and
the Wynne landscape “Storm
Over Wangi” are “retro-
spective.” "
True, most of the pictures are
very small, many no bigger than
postcards. But though the
greatest artists must work on the
large scale, plenty of excellent
minor reputations, from Vermeer
to Percy Lindsay, have been
made by men who work small.
And, in fact, except for the
brief period when he stormed
into the Penton and “Scotty”
Allan portraits and the contro-
versial Joshua Smith, Dobell has
always done his best work on a
few rich inches of canvas.
“Saddle-My-Nag” and “The
Little Milliner,” well-known and
favorite pieces, are both tiny;
and you have only to look at the
two excellent preliminary
sketches for his Harry Stevenson
portrait, one in oils and one in
sepia, and compare them with
the slapdash and uneasy finished
portrait in the current Archibald
competition, to see how much
better he usually is on the small,
compact scale. Everything that
was said in his Frank Clune
portrait in the Archibald a few
years ago is said much more
forcibly in the minute study for
it now shown at David Jones’s
—it is indeed a masterly little
work.
In all the heat of controversy
that has beaten about Dobell it
is never easy to view his work
with complete detachment;
excitement and crowds still
surround it. The present com-
mentator, beyond any possibility
of persuasion, finds most of his
small oil-landscapes from New
Guinea faintly repellent: not for
any distortion —they are perfectly
straightforward but for an
unpleasing texture in the paint
itself, a smooth and smeary look,
like an oleograph.
The’ study for the gallery’s
“Giluwa,” fresh and forceful in
its green zigzags, is an exception,
as there are exceptions among the
portrait-sketches, such as the
Harry Stevenson, the Frank
Clune and the powerful little
“Wine Drinkers,” and in such
N. S. Wales landscapes as
“Creek, Lake Macquarie” and
“Three Girls Carrying Leaves,”
which in their soft, silky greens
and whites look like exercises in
the style of Conrad Martens.
But such typical New Guinea
oils as “Boy with Bow,” “The
Thatchers” and “Matais” would
never attract a crowd without
Dobell’s reputation behind
them; and even the lovely head
of the “Khuta Girl,” so firm and
fine, fails in the end to emerge
From the surrounding mud—one
recalls, as a much more beautiful
work, the head of a native girl
exhibited by Mary Edwards at
the Royal Art Society some years
ago.
On the other hand, the water-
colors and gouaches of New
Guinea, often catalogued as
“pages from the artist’s sketch-
book,” are fresh and clean in
texture, very subtle and delicate
little landscapes: a panel of some
30 charming pictures, among
which one has a special affec-
tion for “Girl Under Pandanus
Tree.”
Are they, so far as one can
view them without prejudice,
major works on the small scale?
One thinks, of the dash of
Brabazon ; of the jewel-like little
Hilders soft with mist or glow-
ing with heat; of the subtle
gentleness of Percy Lindsay’s
small oils; and one cannot say
that these Dobell watercolors
make quite a comparable impact.
Perhaps one misses in them,
ultimately, some distinctive
quality of mind: for the hardest
thing to decide amongst this
strange mixture of powerful
satirical portraits, dramatic land-
scapes like “Storm Over Wangi,”
essays in the mild charm of
Conrad Martens, ugly small oils,
a few bold Gauguin-like slashes
at the jungle on a large scale, the
charming small landscape water-
colors, and the excellent little
pencil-portraits like that of “A
Trader, Angora,” is exactly what
Dobell is : what force, other than
satire and the skill and sensitivity
of the hand, really motivates his
painting. .
Show of Sixes
Except for two items, the exhi-
bition of 49 paintings at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, had
sold out when this commentator
looked in, and that seems fair
enough—almost any artistic
effort should be worth six
guineas. The show could not,
however, really be called a
bargain-sale ; there are too many
studio scraps and sketches, the
value of which lies more in
curiosity or the name attached
to them than in artistic content.
Exceptions include T. J. Santry's
“Bath Time,” and representative
samples from George Lawrence,
Margaret Olley, Grace Cossing-
ton Smith, J. Carrington Smith,
Enid Cambridge, Roland
Wakelin and George Duncan.
Talkies
“Conquest of Everest”
This arresting documentary in
color of Sir John Hunt’s suc-
cessful attack on Everest last year
makes two immediate impres-
sions. The first is of the
scrupulous organisation and the
immense endeavor and courage
of the climbers ; the second is of
the immensity of space and the
microscopic smallness of man-
kind’s comer in it.
It is impossible, while watch-
ing the climbers struggle foot by
painful foot and suck in great
gasps of air, not to remember
that a human animal in its
normal state can go barely more
than five miles above the surface
of its planet and survive. When
one recalls that light, travelling
at 186,000 miles a second, takes
four and a half years to reach the
earth from the nearest star, five
miles becomes only an infini-
tesimal film of vapor.
The contrast, intended or
otherwise, is most effective; it
makes a flight to the moon seem
at once impossible and quite
certain.
Such thoughts aside, the film
is a striking addition to the
Press accounts of the climb
and to Sir John Hunt’s
The Ascent of Everest. It
takes in a good deal of the
preliminary organisation the
designing and testing of equip-
ment, such as compressed food,
oxygen gear and tents to resist
100-mile-an-hour winds —, and
then follows the party from
Katmandoo to the last camp
before the final assault on the
summit. Not the least impres-
sive things in it are the great
winds which seem to rush in from
somewhere out in space and
shriek through and around the
towering walls of ice ; the almost
continual roar and rumble of
avalanches and ice; and
the resemblance of the climbers
to fish brought from the deep and
struggling and gasping for life—
as they probably seemed to any
Abominable Snowman who
chanced to sight them. It’s at
Sydney Embassy,
“Appointment in London”
This English film about Lan-
caster night-bomber crews who
operated over Germany in 1943
has the virtues of authenticity
and understatement as well as a
skilful blending of the grim busi-
ness of war and the English
gift for laughter in tight spots.
Dirk Bogarde as the wing-
commander with a passion for
efficiency is excellent, and lan
Hunter, as the station’s C. 0.,
rolls a humorously philosophic
eye over his birds.
Documentary shots of night-
bombing are interwoven with
fine effect, and the climax, a big
raid on a secret-weapon factory
on the north German coast, has
a full quota of thrills.
The film is also remarkable
for including an Australian who
doesn’t talk like an Old Kent
Road coster. At Sydney
Esquire.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Desert Song”
This old musicomedy warrior,
brought back from pasture for
the umpteenth time, is showing
its age rather badly.
There is the same wearisome
rushing over desert sands, the
same bullet- and sword-proof
pretty-boy hero who foils the
perfidious plottings of the same
fleabitten Arab potentate, the
same lot of synthetic Riffs who
are hard to distinguish from
the Raffs with whom they mix it,
and the same choleric French
general who finds that bending
the Riff-Raff to his will is child’s-
play compared with the job of
curbing his wilful daughter.
The production is conven-
tional and dull and, despite some
furious sand-riding, moves
sluggishly. Gordon Macßae is
the Red Shadow and Kathryn
Grayson the chocolate-boxy
coloratura heroine. The only
performance of any merit comes
from Raymond Massey as the
villain of the piece. At Sydney
Mayfair.
Stage and Music
“The Desert Song”
‘The Desert Song,” currently
presented by Warner Brothers
with all Hollywood trimmings,
is also the latest stage offering of
the Australian Light Opera Com-
pany at Rockdale Town Hall.
Such a coincidence doesn’t
mean that the local production
must suffer by comparison—
amateur productions can often
supply a freshness and spon-
taneity that are lacking in some
technicolored extravaganzas. Un-
fortunately, the Rockdale effort,
by its studied and conventional
approach, lost the opportunity to
put one over Hollywood.
Still, it was a very good job
with quite a high standard of
singing by a strong group of
principals. Rodney Smith, as
the Red Shadow, needed only
more freedom of movement to
give ihe role quite a lively reality,
and Margaret Moore, though too
sombre in mood, sang with rich-
ness and purity and looked
attractive.
Tire best acting of the evening
came from Gayncr Mitchell as
Azuri; she presented the “mad”
dance in the last act most con-
vincingly. The main weakness
of the production was the
women’s chorus or, more parti-
cularly, “the ladies of the
ensemble.” Few of them knew
what to do with their hands at
any time, how to stand, how to
manage their stage movements,
or how to sing. They were very
far below the standard of the
principals and of the general pro-
duction, which was otherwise
■Smooth and competent.


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
THERE was no need this
time to flush the enemy
guns. They were plainly
visible, sandbagged, pits,
black, sky-raking muzzles mak-
ing a pin-cushion of each em-
placement.
Halfway through his dive, his
guts a tense ball. Swan saw the
pretty little flickers winking at
him from either side of the
walled-back river.
He spoke into his mouth-
matching microphone. In ac-
cordance with their briefing,
based on Intelligence reports, %
half the flight elevated their
noses a trifle and plummeted for
the far bank.
Swan aimed his blunt, roaring
nose at a gun-pit abreast of the
left-hand gate. He could see,
now, the men crouched behind
, their weapons, desperate menace
in their attitudes. And had
time to see a man running, ap-
parently with fresh ammunition,
before he squeezed bis trigger.
The Fury jerked. The column
shuddered in his hand. Four
parallel streams of bright
red sparks fled from either side
of her nose, to converge and ex-
plode in a rippling chain of
detonations a few yards in front
of the gun-pit. Swan eased his
column slightly ; the shells lifted,
and beat in a leaden flail all
about the guns.
A fraction of time before he
pulled his column back into his
belly, he saw a vivid burst of
flame spew from the pit, pre-
cursor to the mushroom of
smoke. Ammunition.
Sherwood saw it too. He
made no comment. The Furies
were merely doing what they had
been trained for months to do.
He remained staring down at
the violence below him, at the
stabbing flickers and the diving
planer—diving, firing, climbing,
banking. His eyes were nar-
rowed, the nose jutting between
goggles and muzzling mouth-
piece. There was more to it
than blowing up one gun-pit be-
fore the bombers, with safety,
could go in.
Sherwood saw something else ;
at the same time as Blake’s
voice crackled in his ear.
“One down, sir I”
The Fury, one second an air-
craft, had in the next changed
into a plummeting firebrand,
wrapped in flame, vividly red
even against' the bright sunlight.
It just missed the river and
struck the ground in a slewing,
fluxing mass of flung wreckage.
Sherwood saw an object, the size
of a man, fling skyward, slowly
revolving before it crashed back
to the burning earth.
Banking, Swan had seen the
lines of tracer reach up and nail
the fighter. Coming from a
pill-box 100 yards from his first
target. Now up-river from the
wall under the impetus of his
climb, the little pilot kept his
eyes on the pill-box while he
completed the turn, his right
shoulder pressing against the side
of the cockpit as she swung. He
was behind the backs of the
hidden gunners now, beautifully
in position. He put his nose
down.
Under the Fury’s wings her
bank of 12 rockets lay, clutched
in their racks, a menace in their
silent immobility. Then an
electric spark transformed a
brace of them into flame-tailed
streaks. They shot ahead of
the plane, the speed of its dive
imparting an added, irresistible
velocity to their 601 b., armor-
piercing heads. Capable of bor-
ing through a warship’s armored
side, the rockets savaged
through the pill-box and ex-
pended their energy in a madly,
ricocheting chaos of white-hot
steel.
Small, fierce gouts of smoke
jetted abruptly from the pill-
box’s eyes. A moment, while
the smoke-bursts died to coils of
black vapor, lazily curling from
the slits. Then the whole struc-
ture rocked and flung itself
apart as the ammunition inside
exploded, lumps of concrete lift-
ing towards him in a remote,
graceful arc.
Now! Swan said softly.
When he levelled off after his
climb, Swan looked about and
below him, trying, by concen-
trating on his mission, to wipe
out the memory of the burning
Fury heading earthwards. But
the scene was etched too sharply
on his mind —he felt a queer
mixture of apprehension and
vengefulness. He noted that
now the lines of tracer were few,
though twin streams were still
reaching up from a position well
back from the wall, on the far
side of the river. To stifle his
apprehension, he at once banked
and dived.
Sherwood, watchful and aloof,
saw him. And saw the tracer
aimed at another Fury, wink out,
then leap to life again, this time
climbing in swift, red stitches to
meet Swan’s aircraft.
The other fighters, mission ac-
complished, had drawn off.
There were now two contestants
in the arena —Swan versus the
gun-pit.
“My God !” Sherwood ejacu-
lated. ,
He saw little spurts of smoke
grow abruptly from the cowling
.if Swan’s plane, imd saw the
machine stagger, sideways, as
though under a convulsive grip
of its pilot. Then it pulled out
of its dive, to weave uncertain-
ly over the river mouth towards
the sea.
. “Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader.” Sherwood spoke
sharply. “Swannie, are you all
right ?”
He listened, his eyes squinting
in concentration.
“Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader . . .”
Swan’s voice crackled in his
earphones. , Sherwood could
hear labored breathing.
“All right, Dickie. All right.
A bit of a knock, that’s all. Go
in and do your stuff. They’re
all yours. I’ll linger for a while
—but don’t take too long.”
Sherwood took a quick check-
ing glance at his flock, still in
formation around him. Then
down, and saw another Fury, a
colorless streak, smother the last
gun-pit with a hammering hail
of cannon-shell. He spoke into
his microphone.
It was easy how, with the op-
position beaten to silence. Target
practice. The 500 - pounders
made matchwood of the sluice-
gates and wall in muddy gouts of
upflung water and shattered
timber. When they had finished
the held-back sea was swirling
towards the paddy-fields in new-
found release, thrust by the
weight of a full tide.
Another order and the Fire-
flies, empty-bellied, reformed
station on their leader. With
the Furies above them. Hawk’s
brood headed south-west to-
wards the coast.
They had crossed the lace-
fringed beach when Blake spoke.
“Fury Leader seems a bit
dicky, sir. By God —he’s going
down!”
Sherwood jerked his head
round and upwards, to the
right He saw Swan’s aircraft
slipping away from the forma-
tion, in a long, steady dive to-
wards the sea.
“Swannie 1 Swannie 1”
Swan’s voice came back, faint,
almost incoherent.
“Don’t feel —so hot, Dick.
Can’t seem to handle —this
damned . . His voice trailed
off.
Sherwood acted instantly.
With a brief “Disregard my
movements. Twenty-two Three,
follow me,” he put his nose
down and slipped away under
his own formation, heading in
a power-dive for Swan. He
reached him in seconds, and flew
alongside. Swan’s head was
lolling on his chest, as though
he were taking an uneasy sleep
—at 6000 ft., at close .on 400
knots. Sherwood saw his head
lift up, and noted, with relief,
the aircraft level off.
“Swannie, can you make it?
Keep her level?” (
Swan did not answer. His
head dropped again on his
chest. Though now the Fury
was flying at a steady altitude,
straight out to sea.
“Twenty-two Three, this is
Leader. He’s passed out again.
I’ll take the port wing. Get on
his other side. As close as you
can, with your port wing-tip
under his mainplane. Know
what I mean? Good. It
worked before —it might again.
All right—go to it.”
In his after cockpit, Blake
watched, fascinated, as Sher-
wood brought the Firefly up,
edging her past the tail-plane of
the Fury, up, further, gaining
inch by careful inch, till he had
his starb’d wing-tip level with,
and under, the Fury’s port wing.
Over the squat fuselage Blake
could see the other Firefly’s
canopy, likewise edging forward..
Sherwood waited. He did not
dare swing his head to watch
the other Firefly. Then he
heard the other’s voice.
“This is Twenty-two Three. In
position.”
“Roger,” Sherwood answered,
his voice tense. “Keep her
there. And hope to God he
comes round! ”
The Fury, buttressed on either
side, was actually flying on a
cushion of air, the slipstream of
both Fireflies’ wings pouring up-
wards against her own—a hand
controlling her steady flight. So
long as neither Firefly pilot
made a mistake, and so long as
Swan did not move his neutral
controls, she was safe. Safe,
that is, while their fuel lasted;
and while Hawk was ahead of
them.
Hardly daring to move, star-
ing fixedly at the two wings,
Blake sat rigid in his seat. The
slightest upwards tip of their
Firefly would mean finish for
Swan, and, probably, the
bomber on the other side.
“If this comes off, brother, I
rate you me Number One pin-
up boy,” Blake muttered.
“Repeat, Blake!” Sherwood’s
voice was sharp with tension.
Blake gulped.
“Nothing, sir. I was just—er
—prayin’.”
“Then keep on praying.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” the observer
answered dutifully.
Sherwood would not soon for-
get the strain of the following
ten minutes. All he knew was
in his handling of his machine.
And the Fireflier justified, in
those ten minutes, his recent
selection as Sherwood’s Number
Three, his deputy.
Sherwood had not ordered
Blake to watch Swan —he had
trained his observer, and knew
that Blake would appreciate his
duty.
Hawk was in sight ahead, a
white-tailed tadpole, when Blake
spoke.
“He’s moved, sir. Shaking his
head.”
“Roger,” answered Sherwood.
And then: “Swannie, can you
hear me? Swannie . .
Swan’s voice came back,
slurred, languid.
“Eh? Whassat? That you
—Dick?”
His head lifted from his chest.
At once the Fury dipped. Blake
held his breath. He saw Swan’s
head turn and stare in surprise
at the Firefly, so close, then turn
slowly, like a drunk, to stare out
the other side.
“Swannie!” Sherwood’s voice
was penetrating in its urgency.
Soon they would be past the
carrier. “Swannie! Can you
hear me? You passed out. Can
you take over?”
As though in mocking answer,
the Fury dipped her nose
further. She slid off the windy
cushion, gathering speed, as
though on a slippery dip. Obvi-
ously Swan’s hands were on his
stick, overcoming easily the
tenuous buttress of their slip-
stream.
Wordless, Sherwood watched
his friend heading for the sea
in a steady altitude-eating glide.
This was it. This was the last
flight of a friend. And he was
watching it.
His eyes misted. So that he
did not, at first, see the Fury
pull its nose up. Blake’s voice,
exultant,-cleared his vision. He
was right—the fighter, a few
hundred feet above the sea, was
banking, tilting on one wing to
sweep round the stern of the car-
rier.
In the cockpit. Swan was fight-
ing-fighting the blackout which
threatened to engulf him again
in oblivion, and fighting, almost
by instinct, his stubborn air-
craft. Training told him to
check whether he was clear to
land-on ; weakness dictated his
ignoring the check. Every
ounce of will-power and strength
and skill was in his slit-eyed
staring at the batsman, waving
him in. The batsman’s arms
dropped. Swan cut his engine,
pulled his tail up. For a few
brief seconds, as he careered
down the deck, he wondered
dully why he did not catch. He
was still unaware that he had not
lowered his hook .when he
plunged, with a spine-jarring jolt,
into the barrier.
Still conscious, he was fumb-
ling ineffectually -at the cockpit
cover when they got to him.
After he had landed-on, and
visited Swan in the sick-bay, get-
ting the surgeon’s assurance that
the main trouble was loss ot
blood, Sherwood made for
Baumer’s cabin. He was coldly
angry. Though he could not
have seen that Swan’s hook was
not down, he had found out the
fact from the director who
conned him to his parking place
on the bow.
He knocked on Baumers
door, and stepped in, Baumet
looked up in annoyance. H e
was bent over the small wash-
basin, laving from his face the
prickly salt the sun had brought
out on the flying platform.
Ignoring his visitor, he picked
SYNOPSIS
Sherwood’s worrying about
his young deputy, Ventner, was
justified. Mentally upset, Vent-
ner is killed while landing on
Hawk. Shocked and angry at
the lad’s death, Sherwood
accosts Baumer with his
stupidity in not accepting the
Strike Leader’s advice to have
Ventner excused flying. The
hatred between both men in-
creases, and only Sherwood’s
disciplinary sense averts an
explosion. Shortly he has other
worries. Full flights of Furies
and Fireflies are ordered up to
attack sluice-gates which keep
back the sea from the enemy’s
important paddy-fields. The
gates, heavily fortified, have
been sighted : Swan’s Furies fall
headlong upon the target.


READ THIS BOOK IN ITS ENTIRETY
Now available at all booksellers
WINGS OFF THE SEA
Price 14/3
Also available by J. E. Macdonnell:
GIMME THE BOATS! 13/3
A novel of a fighting Australian destroyer
VALIANT OCCASIONS 18/9
A vivid account of major naval actions of War II
up a towel from its rack and
buried his face.
Sherwood’s voice was sharp.
“Commander Baumer!”
The other’s red face appeared
in the white folds.
“Damn it, man, can’t you seS
I’m busy?”
“Not too busy to answer a
question,” Sherwood gritted.
“Why didn’t you see that
Swan’s hook was down?”
Baumer looked up at Sher-
wood. His face looked weary.
“I’ll skip your tone, Sher-
wood,” he answered evenly, “but
I will not skip the inference that
I don’t know my job.”
He flung the towel on the
bunk, suddenly angry. Sher-
wood saw the blood suffusing his
face and neck, ♦
“What do you think I am—
a damned idiot,?”
Sherwood smiled, a sneering
twist of his mouth.
“Oh, for God’s sake, wipe
that ridiculous grin off your face.
We tried to contact Swan. He
didn’t answer. I knew the bar-
rier would get him. What was
the point in worrying him about
a blasted hook when it was
obvious he wasn’t going to need
it anyway?”
Sherwood had wiped the grin
off his face ; it had felt ridiculous
as soon as Baumer mentioned
the direction-room had con-
tacted Swan. The anger died in
him. He realised, suddenly, that
it was his concern over his friend
which had sent him hot-blooded
to Baumer’s cabin, and had
clouded his commonsense, Nice
bloody fool you’ve made of
yourself, he thought.
Watching his face, Baumer
realised his advantage. He
pressed it, his voice harsh,
“Anyway—what the devil are
you doing here? Most of my
pilots know by now that their
first stop is the de-briefing
room.”
Sherwood breathed deeply.
“Yes, sir,” he said. There
was nothing else he could say.
He was honest enough to grin
wryly at himself as he made his
way to the briefing - room
through the humid passages.
There was no doubt who had
come off best from that little
encounter.
CHAPTER XII
■pOR the next three ' weeks
Sherwood had little enough
time to worry about Baumer,
nor Baumer about him. In
those hard, relentless weeks of
almost constant flying his main
concern was for his own skin.
The carrier was peculiarly fitted
for the work of close-support of
hard-pressed infantry. She was
mobile, dose to the target areas,
and had ample supplies of fuel
and ammunition to ensure their
regular use. The only considera-
tion in how often she could
launch strikes of aircraft over the
targets was the physical condi-
tion of the men who flew them.
Sherwood, his own face lined
with strain, noticed that there
was little laughter from the
young-old flyers in the briefing-
room now. They trooped in,
faces puffy from hastily-snatched
sleep, to listen seriously to the
operations. Intelligence and met.
officers. Seeing their faces now,
before the take-off, and knowing
what they went through each day
before landing-on, Sherwood ex-
pected, every time as he watched
them from beside his own air-
craft on the bow, that one at
least would end up dug into the
bridge or over the side. Yet,
apart from Ventner and Swan,
Hawk maintained her accident-
free record. What she lost, she
lost over the target-area, or in a
hopeless dive into the sea, air-
craft shattered beyond control.
Hap worked as hard as any of
them. Always on tap, always
chewing, airborne when they
left, up there when they got
back, and, often enough, meet-
ing them halfway, his wire belt
dropping to an involuntary
swimmer.
So it went on—bombing rail-
ways, rocketing troop - trains,
watching with grim appreciation
the smoke-pluming missiles, each
salvo packing the blast of a
light cruiser’s broadside, bore
“Capable of boring through a warship’s armored side, the rockets savaged through the
pill-box and expended their energy in a madly-ricocheting chaos of white-hot steel.”
into the crawling, waiting train
of trucks and explode in a chain
of detonations which left them
a dislocated tangle of steel ribs,
looking, from the air, like the
decomposing vertebrae of a pre-
historic monster; pumping can-
non-shells into infantry concen-
trations, their reward the hasty
wave of the advancing Common-
wealth troops; with, always
present, the serene, gutsy recon-
naissance of the unarmed little
Auster spotter, advising and in-
dicating the position and
strength of the targets.
‘Throughout these operations
Sherwood had led his squadron
with a grim, persistent efficiency.
The lines of his hard face had
deepened, so that now twin, deep
scores ran down each side of
his face from halfway up his
hawk nose to the corners of his
mouth. He had grown thinner
under the strain, and the bony
nose, the jutting cheekbones and
the grim line of his mouth gave
his features the impression of
being chiselled from rock.
By the third week he was fly-
ing almost automatically, danger
dulled by repetition. Gone was
the old elation of the wind-
whistling dive, the lightness as
his bomb-load left its racks, and
the satisfaction of seeing his
cargo flower in sudden, beauti-
fully symmetrical patterns of
smoke, colored with the vivid
red centrepiece.
Now the thrill was absent; his
efficiency was wholly the com-
plement of practice: There was
no zest in his flying. He felt
only a growing weariness, a long-
ing for all the hellish useless-
ness of it to end. Until the in-
cident of the Auster flared his
automatic indifference into
vengeful alertness.
This Auster pilot was an Aus-
tralian. Sherwood had got to
know his laconic, nasal voice as
well as he knew Swan’s, This
afternoon the Firefly squadron
had come up a river, their objec-
five an enemy machine-gun unit
gone to ground on the north side
of a bridge the strike aircraft had
shattered the day before. Thdle
was no actual tactical objective
in the sortie, apart from a look
to see if the bridge had been
repaired. If it had been, the
bombers would hammer it down
again, in the same monotonous
routine of destruction.
But the little Auster, flying
round like a frail silver butter-
fly, had spotted the machine-gun
detachment. The Australian’s
voice reached Sherwood’s ears
with laconic cheerfulness.
“Hello, Sinbad strike. They
haven’t got on to the bridge yet.
Blit there’s a machine-gun mob
down there which looks like it
migjht be a guard to some future
bridge-engineers. Like to do
’em over? Okay, feller. Either
side of the road. North end of
the bridge, just to the left of that
cliff there. Have got? Good
boy. I’ll leave you to it. I’ve
got just enough juice to get me”
His voice cut off, abruptly.
Sherwood, his eyes on the road
pointed out by the spotter,
looked sharply at the Auster,
fairly close to starb’d, but lower
down, above the cliff edging a
narrow, level strip running to
the river.
The Auster was burning,
flames flaring from its engine
and licking aft. A winking pat-
tern of flickers near the bridge
told Sherwood why.
His reaction was immediate.
“Twenty-two Three, Twenty-
two Four, this is Leader! Those
machine-guns. Fast! ”
“This is Twenty-two Three.
Wilco, out.”
The two aircraft designated
fell off on one white-and-black
striped wing and plummeted
earthwards. Circling, Sherwood
saw their bombs detach, black
blobs resolving into streaks.
Then he forgot the machine-
guns. The Auster was dropping
fast, aiming for the level stretch
beneath the cliff. He can’t see,
thought Sherwood, a paralysing
sickness in his guts. The cock-
pit of the spotter was hidden
under a pluming spate of black
smoke. Intense sympathy for
the game little Auster pilot filled
Sherwood. It was the crystallisa-
tion, in his present predicament,
of the respect subconsciously felt
over the past weeks for the
übiquitous, unhonored presence
of the spotting' plane.
“God!” he muttered.
The Auster, its pilot blind,
half-smothered in smoke, struck
the cliff with its starb’d wing, a
few feet above the ground. The
aircraft swung right round under
the impact, smashed its other
wing into the cliff, then toppled,
broken-winged, to the ground,
burning.
“He’s out, sir!” Blake
shouted.
He was. Stumbling, falling,
running like a blind man to-
wards the river, in a desperate
rush to gain the temporary
shelter of its bank.
Sherwood saw, plainly, the
dust spurting all round the
stumbling figure. He swore, and
glared at the road. The smoke
was lifting from the two
bombers’ first attack. They were
diving again, strafing even as the
bombs dropped.
Before they landed Sherwood
saw two figures running,
clumsily, toward the cliff to dive
behind a rock as the bombs ex-
ploded in gouts of flung earth
behind them on the main posi-
tion.
It had happened swiftly, in
seconds. He saw the Auster pilot,
almost to the bank, stagger,
then fall slowly backwards.
TBven as Sherwood banked he
saw the wounded man crawl on,
nearer to the bank. And the
ground around him seemed to
stand up in a picket-fence of
spouting earth. The pilot col-
lapsed on the edge of the bank,
then fell into the river. He
drifted downstream, his arms
spreadeagled, forming a gro-
tesque cross of his body, kept up
by the air in his flying suit.
Then that rock was in Sher-
wood’s sights. He was to the
left of it, towards the bridge,
and could see clearly the two
men, with their machine-gun be-
hind it. A cold hate in his eyes,
he pressed hik trigger. The
shells exploded £0 yards short.
He kept his thumb down, and
hauled lightly on his stick. The
flail lifted, and smothered the
rock with its hammering
violence.
Craning back as he banked, he
saw one figure sprawled, still.
The other was heading in a
stumbling rush back to the road.
Sherwood waited, till he was
sure. Diving almost vertically,
he saw the man turn his head,
to stare desperately up at the
snarling demon above him. He
fell, scrambled up, and ran on.
Still Sherwood waited. Blake
tensed behind him.
Then the Firefly shuddered.
The quadruple streams of tracer
leapt out, eagerly.
His head pressed back against
the pad as she climbed, Blake
looked out and down. There
was another grotesque cross
now, on the ground ; above it
the brown dust, bereft of the
energy which flung it there, hung
lazily in the still air.
“Twenty-two squadron, this is
Leader,” Sherwood ordered.
“Hold off. Reform.”
Feeling as though he would
vomit, he led them in a tight
bank over the silent bridgehead,
to search down the river. It, too,
was silent. There was no sign of
the Auster pilot.
His brain numb, Sherwood
landed-on, taxied his ship up to
the bow and climbed stiffly out.
The calm warmth of the after-
noon, and the placid reach of the
blue and white sea, mocked the
sickness in his heart.
So it was that he showed
neither surprise nor pleasure as
he saw Swan waiting for him at
the door to the bridge structure.
Sherwood nodded briefly as
he stepped inside.
“Up and about, eh? Ready
for glory.”
Swan did not answer the bitter
tone. Instead, he turned and
followed Sherwood to the de-
briefing-room. Here, the Strike
Leader briefly reported, in a
flat, unemotional voice, the de-
struction of one enemy machine-
gun unit and one Australian
• {Continued on next page)


Auster spotter aircraft, with
pilot.
Swan walked behind him to
the smoke-room.
“Drink, Dick,” he asserted
rather than invited.
They stood at the bar, Sher-
wood silent, his face grimed with
sweat, his hand slowly making
wet circles on the bar with the
base of his glass.
Swan looked at him, inwardly
concerned at the strain visible on
Sherwood's face. He spoke
quietly.
“Good news, Dick,”
“M’m?” the other answered
“Tomorrow sees the last of
this,” Swan went on. “One more
bridge to do over —thousand-
pounders, I hear—then we’re off
to Kure.”
He raised his glass and drained
it.
“By the way,” he said, as he
placed his glass on the bar, “I’ll
be flying with you. Farewell
gesture, eh?”
Sherwood finished his drink.
He looked at his friend for the
first time.
“That’ll be ducky,” he said,
and walked out.
Swan watched him go, leaning
back on the bar. There’s only
one thing I hope, brother, he
thought—that you don’t cross
friend Baumer the way you are
now.
He shrugged his spare
shoulders, and turned back to
the bar.
That night Sherwood slept
badly. He had seen men die
before. But the memory of the
Auster pilot’s finish had a
peculiar significance for him—
peculiar because of his worn-out
physical condition, when his
brain could not dismiss the
scene as a tragic,, but usual, part
of the whole senseless mess, as
he would have forced himself to
do normally ; and because of the
particularly pathetic manner of
the Australian’s death. Hounded
like a dog. And game to the
last.
Sherwood shivered in the hot,
dark cabin. He saw again, with
vivid clarity, the dust spurting
all round the desperate refugee.
He opened his eyes, and stared
at the dim whiteness of the deck-
head. And faced squarely the
question which had niggled
insistently at his brain and had
made him rude to Swan. Had
he acted fast enough? Could
he have got down on to that
rock sooner? If his remedial
action had been delayed, was it
because his physical tiredness
had slowed his reactions? Had
a man died, because another was
tired?
He rubbed his sweat-shining
forehead slowly, wearily. One
more sortie, Swan had said.
Thousand-pounders. That meant
a big, strong target. And a
strong anti-aircraft defence.
He turned restlessly on his
side, and flung one arm over his
head. He closed his eyes
deliberately.
For a long time he heard the
sibilant rush of the water slid-
ing wetly down her side. The
only other sounds were the
stead*' hiss of air from the ven-
. tilating shaft, and the muted, far-
away throbbing of Hawk’s great
heart.
He was still thinking of the
Auster pilot, and the obscene
cross his bullet-torn body made
in the river, when he dozed off.
The Strike Leader’s eyes were
smarting with tiredness when he
stepped on to the dawn-cool
flight-deck from the briefing-
room. Though fresh as the
morning, and looking forward to
one more sortie before Kure —
and Beryl—Swan knew his friend
too well, and what he had been
through in the past weeks, to
attempt jocularity as he walked
to meet him.
“Good morning, Dick,” he
said briefly.
“ ’Morning,” Sherwood
nodded, unsmiling. He looked
aft towards the aircraft, then
back at Swan, suddenly, as a
point not covered in the briefing
struck him. He was about to
speak, but checked as he saw
the concern his sudden turn had
surprised on Swan’s face.
Sherwood exhaled slowly. He
looked down at his pint-sized
friend, and felt a sudden warmth
towards this ugly little man.
Swan was a good friend. More
important, he was a damned
good fighter escort. That Swan
unhesitatingly obey the
'Strike Leader’s instructions dur-
ing a mission was merely natural,
in the rigidly unchangeable order
of things. That he should dive
and dive and dive again until he
was called off was peculiarly—
Swan.
Sherwood grinned. Inside
him, the look Of concern on
Swan’s face had tingled an
almost femininely sweet sensa-
tion,
“I know, Swannie. Not as
young as I thought I was. Which
accounts for—sorry about in the
bar last night. I’m bloody glad
you’ll be with me.”
Sherwood broke off, faintly
embarrassed at this unwonted
show of feeling. But Swan was
grinning, an impish opening
athwart his gnome-like face.
“The old doc. wanted to keep
me nailed down —seeing we’re so
close to packing up. But, says
I, there ? s a certain party waiting
for a certain Strike Leader back
in Kure —and Swannie’s the boy
to see he gets there.”
Sherwood put out his big hand
and rubbed Swan’s tuft of hair.
He laughed.
“You’re good for the bowels,
• Swannie. Well, I’m off. Can’t
wait to get back into that couch
of mine in old Fanny. See you
upstairs,”
Swan watched him stride off.
He smoothed his tuft thought-
fully.
“You won’t be much good to
anyone when you get to Kure,
old crumpet,” he muttered to
himself. “Not for a couple of
good sleepy nights, anyhow.”
Fastening his helmet, he
walked down the lightening
deck to his own aircraft. Men-
tally, he made a note to keep a
sharp eye lifting on Sherwood,
his own briefed job regardless.
The Strike Leader, bending
under his wing, took an appre-
ciative look at his cargo. This
would be the first time he had
loaded 1000-pounders; and, be-
cause of their weight, he would
have no rockets. The two
bombs were almost as long as
Sherwood—-and almost as thick.
Dropped with the impetus of a
dive they would make an
irresistibly smashing force against
the bridge which was their target.
Baumer’s voice, crackling across
the deck, interrupted his musing.
“Stand clear of propellers!”
Irritation, bom of his tired-
ness, filled Sherwood, This was
the fat Baumer’s main contribu-
tion to Hawk’s efforts. Start up
.your propellers; take-off, my
minions, fly, approach, dive,
bomb, crash and what’s left of
you return and add to my record
of efficiency! While I worry
about you in a padded chair in
the aircraft-direction room.
You fat slob, thought Sher-
wood, as he climbed slowly into
his cockpit. I’d like to have you
under my wing for this sortie ...
As though he had heard him,
Baumer’s voice echoed:
“Start up!”
Sherwood forgot Baumer as
the Furies moved towards the
catapult. Though now he was
too tired to feel any zest in
watching their graceful menace.
He took a practised look at his
instrument-panel. •
He lifted his head to watch
Swan squirt off, then, yawning,
returned to his instruments. The
cockpit check was now so com-
pletely automatic that one part
of his mind wandered on ahead,
far past the ship to the big steel
bridge over the river a few miles
coastward of Chinnampo. With
any luck, the briefing-officer had
told them, they should catch an
enemy column in or near the
town. Reconnaissance had
reported considerable activity in
the area—which was why Hawk’s
brood would be paying the bridge
their undivided attention in the
next hQur of SQ
These sorties would be her
j ast — on mission. Shortly,
Sherwood thought, with an
intensity of relief that made him
smile, wryly, they would be shap-
mg up f or the Inland Sea. Then
—ashore with old Swannie;
Natalie, and long, relaxed hours
in her understanding arms. She
had a way, soothing and
maternal, of stroking his hair,
running her long fingers right to
the nape of his neck, twitching
there at the muscles above his
shoulders. A professional touch,
he had assumed. She had started
it that last night, after their
passion had spent its climaxing
force. He remembered, stretch-
ing back in his hard seat, that
he had never felt so utterly
relaxed as he had then, lying
under the moon-silvered pines,
the never-ceasing murmur of the
bay’s surge rustling in his ears,
Natalie’s cool fingers rustling,
with a jealous, proprietary
interest, through his hair. God,
if he could only feel that relaxa-
tion now. His whole nervous
system was strung tight, like a
tow-wire, with strain. But one
night with Natalie ~ ,
He saw the director staring up
at him, gesturing with his hands.
Sherwood swore , softly at his
negligence as his quick glance
took in the empty flight-deck
ahead of his canted-up nose. He
moved his throttle.
In a few seconds, his tail-wheel
locked, he was bogied on the
catapult, tense, alert. That
omission of missing the director s
orders was a shouted warning to
him. It had never happened
before. .
Hawk’s bulk receded rapidly
as he climbed, banking to reach
the forming-up position. It
never ceased to intrigue him,
foolish as he knew it was, how
the acreage of the flight-deck,
beautifully large and accommo-
dating when you were staring
along its length, dwindled to a
tiny rectangle when you were in
the position of having to get back
on to it.
He turned inside the circuit of
Swan’s fighter escort, flying at
reduced throttle while the rest of
his strike plummeted off the
rounded-down bows. Then,
formed-up, he set course for the
land.
Below and behind, the big plot-
ting screen in the greenly-glowing
aircraft-direction . room fol-
lowed them, the radar’s electronic
fingers in constant echoing touch
with its charges. Systematically,
the operators on the ’ circular
perspex screen plotted the strike-
aircraft with crosses, moving
them gradually away from the
centre of the web of radiating
lines towards the edge. Other
aerials, revolving in embracing
sweeps, searched the blue and
white sky for anything that
might be heading seawards.
Unlikely, but possible.
“Coast ahead, sir,” said Blake.
“Roger.”
On and over the rolling hills,
the massed beat of their engines
a premonitory thunder shafting
ahead. Ten minutes and Sher-
wood spoke.
“Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader. Detach and attack from
the north while we attack down-
sun. Over.”
Swan’s voice came back, de-
tachedly efficient.
“This is Escort Leader. Wilco,
out.”
Swiftly the Furies drew ahead,
to hammer the bridge’s defences
in accordance with the plan de-
tailed in the briefing-room.
Sherwood wanted as much as
possible of the ground-fire
silenced before he lobbed with
his heavy loads. Circling round
the big bridge would not be a
healthy way of filling in time.
The mission began smoothly.
Swan led his termagants down
in dive after dive, headlong, fall-
ing rushes, brown balls of smoke
breaking at their wings, tracer
stitches prolonging themselves in
fleeing streams, ending their
flight in rippling flashes of
vicious red.
When he got there, Swan had
noticed, in one sharp glance, that
the bridge was bare of traffic.
Now, with the enemy anti-air-
craft fire noticeably diminished,
he had time to notice something
else. A long snake of vehicles,
tail to tail, making its way at
speed and in a column of dust
towards the bridge. The infer-
ence was obvious. With only
fighters so far in evidence, the
column was going to risk the
crossing, rockets regardless.
Those trucks must be needed
badly somewhere. His heart ex-
ulting, Swan had other ideas.
He pressed the teat on his
column.
“Strike Leader, this is Escort
Leader. Motorised column
heading for bridge. Hurry it
up. Over.”
Sherwood’s voice reached him,
brief, unexcited.
“Roger. Out.”
So, in that laconic exchange
was sealed the fate of a score
or more enemy transport and
ammunition trucks.
The strike aircraft, heavy with
the loads their wings carried,
swept in from behind the town,
banked over the steel network
of the bridge,, and dived.
An exultant excitement in his
breast overcoming his tiredness,
Sherwood watched the bridge
rush towards him, the compass
of his steady gaze taking in the
column of trucks, its head about
to pass the centre of the bridge.
That position was his aiming-
point.
He thumbed his bomb-release
trigger.
, So low was he that the huge
missile had barely time to right
itself before it buried its
armored nose in the middle of the
bridge road. The impact shocked
the needle on to its waiting
detonator. The explosive-
crammed bomb went up in a
shattering blast that tore a
huge hole in the road, and sent
two trucks hurtling skyward,
(Continued on page 31)
VARIOUS VERSE
PICNIC
The sudden sun, and the white spring rain
Is bright on the ground as cold white wine.
Give me a bluebell-cup, my love,
For we shall never come again
To this clean, and young, Australian time.
Last night we drank our wealth in wine
As red as our blood, as cheap as rain.
Give me your lips to drink, my love,
For we have very little time.
We shall not find this place again.
I drink a toast to this clean, white rain
That lightens in the heart like wine.
Give me your hand to hold, my love,
For I will never come again
With you, with love, to such a time.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
SYDNEY OPHELIAS.
Ophelia, given the answer, called the wind,
Scattered her senses, breathed her bawdy songs,
Instilled remorse and floated to her true mind.
If she had Shakspeare lend her words to say
Any sad girl would do so: gracefully
Use .such reproaches for all who love betray.
And the harbor would be scattered as if with flowers
. Bearing drowned girls ; the beaches would be filled with songs
•From crazy throats invoking Bedlam’s powers.
For Sydney has green water enough to drown all sadness
But no one to teach death gently or beautifully,
And the hard streets glitter with the dry masks of madness;
While Ophelias, lacking the borrowed genius to become
pathetic whores,
Accumulate sorrows in the manner of ill-used pack animals
With hard mouths and chronic saddle-sores.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
OUTCASTS
I canhot watch the faces that, to me,
carry the stigma imprinted on the moon:
residue or shadow on a disk that thieves
light to show craters of identity-
Such faces move away, but move again
in my direction, yet nothing is bestowed,
for what was taken from them cannot be restored.
Distance gives no illusion to their terrain.
Those eyes.should be still for love or turn from distaste,
since only stone and the dead are sealed from insight;
but near or far their coldness penetrates my heart
until my blood beats slow, my thought too fast.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
THIS TIME OF CALM
Who walks by the sea, this time of calm,
learns jts meaning or the heart’s;
tide’s lull unwinds the intricate storm;
the swerving bird glides out of harm,
finding this sheltered hour home.-
Who walks the wall or the shore’s edge,
sees more than this wreckage of a storm!
kelp or the delicate spine of a fish,
more than a scoured branch, a long shell,
or the lap of water on a broken ledge:
sees the shell go under the sand
and the sand go under the sea;
sees all peril, all world’s harm
contains this time of living calm;
sees walls battered and destroyed,
the intricate storm ensnare the calm;
learns its meaning is the heart’s.
O the sea inherits from itself always
and even in travelled seas new islands form.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


Mock & Kirby’s
Mechanise your farm, orchard or market garden with the famous
1-0
at
NS
m
m
I
rs:
mm
$
Vrfl3
W
o
I
Heaps of ice cream made in
a jiffy, with the Superpolar
ICE CREAM CHURN
Make 6 quarts of ice cream
by turning the handle of the
churn. Made of strong wood,
with ample space to pack ice.
Ice cream can be kept in the
churn for a week.
Priced at 78/6
Kitchenware, Ground Floor,
Spring Tined Harrow
Tears up grass , uproots weeds,
middies soil.
8.M.8. LIGHT
TRACTORS
Mr. Fanner, how your neighbours will
envy you when you become the proud
owner of a 8.M.8. Plowmate Tractor —the
Tractor that pays for itself over and over
again. Illustrated is the 6-h.p. Plowmate
complete with the standard equipment.
Plough, tool carriage, disc harrow, spring
tooth harrow, wide hoeing cultivator. Nock
& Kirby’s will gladly give you a free
demonstration on your own property if
you live in the metropolitan area.
Complete with equipment £399/15/0
Terms are available.
«.■» . -
Disc Harrow
Heavy clods broken down and trash
cut up with little effort.
Wide Hoeing Cultivator
Will cultivate 3 rows, 12 in. to 1 Gin.
apart.
417 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. PHONE 80246. BOX 4250 ftecl(&Ku>by&
* , - ''• ' ■ . ' . . ■ • \ ’ : "' > • •
WATER UNDER THE BRIDGE
by P.J. Heerzan
JT\ S the cattle-train clattered
f \ across the dismal country-
I side Ron Dighton leaned
chunkily on the door of
the guard’s van and frowned out
at the floodwaters. But the
frown was not for them. His
mind was occupied with a
problem more serious for him
than any flood.
“Army neurosis,” a number of
friends had jokingly told him.
“It’ll wear off, old fellow.”
It was not wearing off. The
craving for excitement, the
inability to stay in a position,
was stronger than ever. In itself
this was not bothersome. The
trouble lay with Lynn, his wife.
Shrugging off hopelessness Ron
sat down and lit a cigarette.
How could he fight it? More
important: why should he fight
it? Why should “settling-down”
be considered a synonym for
happiness? Lynn had meant
that last threat, though. Another
change of work, another shift of
home, another raid on their
small bank account, and she
would leave him.
TJE stood up again, squeezed
A A his thickset body through the
windoiw on the door, and
moodily watched the rest of the
train threading its cautious way
across the deluged flats. Nothing
could be seen but miles and miles
of water, a smoothly-sliding sheet
tucking itself around the land,
broken occasionally by a
tussocky hillock, a few stout
fence-posts, a long-ago-deserted
tin humpy.
Spotlighted by an intermittent
sun the turbid tide reached gradu-
ally greedier fingers on to the
permanent way as the engine,
with ostentatious determination.
steadily hauled the string of
cattle-trucks deeper into the river
valley. Exciting! Phff. Ron
sped his spent cigarette into the
water in a gesture of disgust.
He strolled the van like a caged
tiger, wondered idly how the
bridge over the Wagton River
was faring in its tussle with the
torrent. A flimsy structure that
had twice been swept away in
previous floods, it had been re-
built, by men with the senseless
persistence of ants, in the same
vulnerable spot each time.
Would it hold together long
enough for him to get the cattle
over it and on to the feed on the
other side?
The drover in charge of the
animals had certainly picked a
fine time to get taken with
appendicitis. Lucky stiff was
now back in hospital at Nuree
Bay, surrounded by pretty nurses
while the guard looked after his
beefy charges.
Thinking along these lines
Ron managed to prevent his
mind from fastening again on
the problem of his itchy feet.
Then, with a start, he realised
tfiat the train was not moving.
He spied along the train through
his viewplate. The bridge was
just ahead. A little water
tumbled over it, but apparently
it still stood firm. So why the
delay? Was the driver scared to
cross it. v
Ron smoothed his big hands
over his woolly black hair,
donned cap and waistcoat and
opened the door. Thin tendrils
of water, teased by a light
breeze, crept exploringly on to
the lower footboard. He took
the dry route, over the foot-
planks on top of the trucks, to
talk to the enginemen.
“Haven’t got much steam,”
Harry Harg called out as Ron
scrambled over the coal and
down into the cab.
“How long will you take to
raise it? The fiver is rising fast
by the look of it.”
“Can’t seem to raise it at all,”
Harg complained. “Noel has
beep shovelling like blazes for
the past twenty minutes. Must
be a leak somewhere.”
Noel Smith paused to wipe a
sweaty, soot-grimed face with an
equally sooty hand, grinned like
an amiable negro and returned
to slinging lumps into the roar-
ing fire.
“We’ve got a hundred-and-
twenty now,” Harg continued.
“With that fire we should have
a hundred-and-eighty pounds at
least. It should be nearly blow-
ing its top.”
“You’re telling me,” Ron
agreed, and mopped his brow to
underline the statement. “I don’t
think you can get any more.
You reckon that might be enough
to get us over?”
“No. What we have barely
works the Westinghouse.” Harg,
a stringy, grizzled veteran,
scratched his grey-stubbled chin
thoughtfully. “It’s building up
while we are stationary. If we
can get another ten, fifteen
pounds, we might chance a run
at it.” He glared at the sway-
backed structure ahead, “That
could be dangerous.”
“We can’t go back,” said Ron.
“The feed for these cattle is all
on the other side. They’ll starve
if we get cut off on this side.
Tell you what, I go along and
check the bridge, chuck any
muck off it, will you have a go
at getting over?”
“We wouldn’t be in the race,”
Smith asserted vigorously. “This
tin-can is worn out. It couldn't
pull the skin off a banana, let
alone tote a string of wagons
across that dip.”
D ON argued until his proposal
was accepted. He
dropped from the engine and
wobbled forward, knee-deep in
the flood. On the bridge he had
difficulty maintaining his balance
against the insistent surge of the
current. Dodging debris, he
worked his way to the opposite
bank, enjoying the sense of
danger.
He waved cheerfully to
signify that the bridge was
trafficable and started back.
Logs sped past in of him.
careened recklessly off the
handrail supports and shot on at
a pace so rash they seemed to
be racing the stream that carried
them,
“Ready?” Ron hauled himself
on to the engine,
Harg nodded briefly and
backed the train away. Twq-
hundred yards from the bridge
he braked and considered. Then
he reversed the position of the
lever on its toothed sextant,
pumped air into the brakes, and
with his left hand gradually
opened then regulator.
The entitle moved forward
again, an# its driving-wheels
threshed tine water into foam.
Well above* the regulation speed
for such unfavorable conditions
the train chortled on to the
bridge at twenty miles per hour.
Ron wag elated. The two
enginemen Watched ahead, faces
grimly set. Both were in a better
position than the guard to know
how close was the dark grasp of
disaster. No great pressure from
a wall of Water, no large lump of
rubbish on the track would be
needed to tilt an engine forcing a
path at this speed. Any little
mishap might bring big trouble.
The engine ploughed purpose-
fully into the slight dip. Water
splashed under the footplate,
spluttered around the firebox.
“We’4l never make it,” said
Smith. “This water is much
higher than the ten inches regu-
lations allow us.”
The big driving wheels were
slipping now on the climb to-
y/ards the higher bank. The
engine, striving valiantly
forward, was slowing down.
Harg opened the regulator
wide.
o Continued on page 30)


Leaves From a Treasured Diary
A Governess to
PRINCESSES
Incidental to the Royal visit, the much-
treasured little personal document here
featured (this is the first publication of it
anywhere) was brought into “The Bulletin”
by its present possessor in Sydney: the diary-
jottings—in a penny notebook!—of Leila
Milne, governess to two princesses, the
daughters of the Duke and Duchess of Con-
naught, at the turn of the century.
Miss Milne, daughter of the Rev. William
Milne, a C. of E. missionary in China, was a
graduate of Cambridge. In 1907 she went to
the Rumanian Court, remaining there till
1918 as governess to the daughters of the
King and Queen of Rumania—Princess Eliza-
betta (who became the wife of King George
of Greece), Princess Mignon (later Queen of
Serbia; married King Alexander), and
Princess Ileana (who married the Archduke
Anton of Hapsburg).
Princesses mentioned (and sometimes de-
scribed) in the diary-jottings are mostly
the daughters or granddaughters of Queen
Victoria, who was at the time in the last
year 'of her reign. Others who make appear-
ances by name are chiefly members of the
Queen’s or the Connaughts’ households or
personal friends of theirs or the diarist.
Her own Connaught charges were Princess
Margaret (called Daisy), subsequently
married to the Crown Prince of Sweden,
and Princess Patricia (Patsy), who resigned
her royal title on her marriage (in 1918)
with the Hon. Alexander Robert Maule
Ramsay, son of the 13th Earl of Dalhousie.
When these diary-jottings were set down
Princess Margaret was 18 and Princess Pat-
ricia four years younger.
The diarist was no Fanny Burney: her im-
pressions 'of what interested her in her Royal
surroundings, with Boer War echoes, residence
at Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle,
Connaught visits to Ireland, and the like, were
scribbled in her penny notebook even less
than ladies-—Madame d’Arblay pos-
sibly excepted—usually manage such things.
Sometimes they are in spidery pencil, not
accurately decipherable.
The few dates show the period covered
to have been about five months, and the
entries—on various odd days—give fleeting
glimpses rather than any complete picture.
But they will be found to have about them
an air of freshness, touches of humor, some-
thing of the Court atmosphere and general
English outlook of the time, and also evidence
of the very human and charming personality
of the diarist herself, quite as evidently very
fond of her Connaught Princesses.
—| HE cli a ry opens with
the Boer War the main
focus of interest. The
war is in its last phase,
rapidly coming to an
end, and news con-
sequently is better than it had
been;
February 16, 1900 : Today a
rapid thaw and brilliant sun-
shine. The Princesses [Margaret
and Patricia] met me as usual
and we went to the greenhouses
in search of flowers. Later,
while I was only knitting, the
Duchess [of Connaught] came
to the door to tell me the great
news that General French got
into Kimberley last night, with
cavalry and artillery. The Queen
had sent them the message. The
Duke [of Connaught] is still in
his room with influenza, so con-
versation at lunch was largely
between the Duchess and
Colonel Egerton.
Lord Rosebery’s speech [on
military affairs] was discussed,
and Colonel Egerton said he
never was sure whether he (Lord
R.) were in earnest or “acting.”
This is precisely my own feeling,
but by the Duchess’s look I could
tell that Lord R. is persona
grata with her as at Court.
Campbell - Bannerman ■ [subse-
quently Prime Minister] they
discussed, “a charming man
personally, but indolent.”
19th: Stormy day. The Duke
recovered and appeared at
lunch ; conversation on the good
[Boer War] news. They con-
gratulated themselves on
Kitchener having been sent.
Later, talking of the of
Lords, the Duchess said that on
the day Parliament was opened
the Peeresses Gallery was so full
that she only obtained a seat by
a lady she knew giving her one.
A lady beside her knelt all the
time ; Lady Gwendolin Cecil sat
THE DIARIST
next her. Even if the Princess of
Wales goes, she only goes to the
Peeresses Gallery.
Tuesday: Pleasant lunch.
The Maywood School came to
play hockey. I was not playing.
The Duchess was hit by a stick
on the temple and I wanted to go
in with her but when we got near
the house she’insisted on going
in alone —happily no ill-effects,
not even a bruise. We had a
hockey-tea and a cheerful one.
The probability is that the Queen
will not go abroad.
Thursday ; Captain McNeill
at lunch —a very lively one. The
Dublin Vice-Regal dignity was
talked over; the State that is
kept up and the Drawing Rooms
were much joked over ; the funny _
fact of the Viceroy kissing the*
debutantes —say, ladies of 60—
and the effusion of one lady who
responded so that it was heard
all over the hall. The Lord
Lieutenant kisses the ladies on
the left cheek; Lord Spencer
used to salute the forehead, as he
was apt to get his beard entangled
in necklaces!
Captain McNeill related how
he had asked the policeman out-
side the Castle [at Dublin] for
the countersign (in Lord
Spencer’s days when things were
“acute” this used to be given).
The policeman said, “Go in and
out as yer loike, yer honor, and
don’t be afraid if the sentry
spokes to yer.” Looking round
he found that the sentry (which
should have been two) was
reduced to one, the other man
having gone and left his gun.
Captain McNeill repeated an
excellent story, which we had
heard before—he assures us it
is true and that he had asked the
doctor himself about it: At
Colenso a Dublin Fusilier was
left a long time on the river bank,
shot through the leg. When the
doctor reached him he said “I’m
afraid you’ve had a bad time,
my poor fellow, before I could
get to you.” “Captain Doctor,”
was the reply, “it’s the foinest
day I’ve ever had in me loife —
we’ve been §hootin’ Protestants
and landlords all the mornin’
and divil a policeman looking !”
Saturday: The Queen came
to tea. I saw her from the
window. She drove over on a
very damp, not to say wet, after-
noon, with four horses. Princess
Beatrice and Princess Thora were
with her; the Queen walked
through the hall to the Blue
Drawing-room. Princess Thora
came upstairs and was intro-
duced. Prince Arthur [of Con-
naught; subsequently Governor-
General of South Africa, 1920-
23] was there and stays still —
Hot being well and the floods out
at Eton.
Monday; The Duke and
Duchess talked much of the
Army—of the Volunteers ; how
to a certain extent it lies with the
officers of a regiment to get rid
of an unpromising officer, Cronje
[Boer general] was holding out
[at Paardeberg, where he put up
a desperate resistance] and we
speculated as to what would hap-
pen and discussed his character.
Today, February 27:
Majuba Day! Just as we stood
waiting to go to lunch the Duke
came in and said, “I suppose
you’ve heard the great news;
Cronje has surrendered uncon-
ditionally at daylight today” [he
surrendered with the remnant of
his army, and as a prisoner-of-
war was sent to St. Helena]; then
the Duchess came down with him
to read a telegram and, very
excited, we all went in to lunch.
At lunch the Duke was telling
a curious story of how an Italian
lady had told him the only thing
to save Italy from the corruption
of its finance would be for the
English to take charge of it as
they do in Egypt, and that many
Italians had the same feeling.
He also spoke with admiration
of the Emperor of Austria, of his
kindness and courtesy, his diffi-
culties and great sorrows. It
seems that when caricatures or
some attacks on the Queen
appeared in some Austrian
pap ers, our Ambassador
requested the Emperor to ask his
Government to press for their
withdrawal, and so it was done.
Later there was a hockey
match, the Princess Louise
[daughter of Queen Victoria,
and wife of the Marquess of
Lome] and the Marquess had
come down ; he stood about the
ground and watched it all the
time in a most friendly manner.
He has a good face, red and
burly ; his eyes bright, his hair
greying kindly. Certainly
Princess Louise, to whom I was
presented on the wet grass, is
marvellously young and pretty
with a rather loud voice and a
manner of decision and a certain
forcibility—the clever woman.
March 1: Great news today
of the relief of ’ Ladysmith—
brought to us in the morning.
Received doubtfully—confirmed
by a telegram from the Duke,
llien the difficulty was someone
to tell it to, and we couldn’t think
of anyone. By and by Princess
Margaret was heard playing “The
Soldiers of the Queen.” When
I came home even Bagshot
station was beset with people and
children buying evening papers
at the door and Gamberley is
adorned with flags. In all the air
there is a sense of life and re-
joicing, and I hear that at the
College [Eton] there are grand
times and the band playing,
March 5: The Duke and
Duchess returned and at lunch
of course the talk began and
ended with the War, the Duke
speaking very vehemently about
the foreign Press. He spoke
somewhat bitterly as of one who
“had not gone,” but been here
all the time —hearing all, know-
ing what the Army he had
served with for 32 years was.
They told us that Princess
Aribert [granddaughter of Queen
Victoria] had gone into the Unter
den Linden [in Berlin], and as
this news [of British victory] was
declared the people had hissed
and cursed England.
I asked the Duke what would
happen about the French Exhibi-
tion [Britain was being savagely
assailed in the French Press also].
He said he did not know. He
certainly should not go, though
he should have wished to, and
“my brother wished very much
to go, but he will not go.”
On Thursday the Eton Volun-
teers were out, and young
Dalmeny was galloper; he was
sent to find the news and brought
the story of Ladysmith’s relief.
The regiment halted, the band
played and the boys then sur-
rounded the German Master
(himself a Volunteer), said he
was Cronje and captured him.
The Queen has been inundated
with telegrams of congratulation.
At tea-time the Duke told us he
had just received a telegram from
Bullet from Ladysmith! The
Duchess asked me to go with the
Princesses next Saturday to
Windsor. They were both kind
and nice, /
March 8: At Sandhurst we
had a service and sermon full of
thanksgiving, and a reminder,
explain it as you will, that since
the nation nationally and openly
placed its troubles in God’s
hands in prayer, we have had
success. At St. George’s [Chapel]
tonight we began by singing
“God Save the Queen,” even
including the “knavish tricks.”
March 12: Today I spent
quite a delightful day at
Windsor: going off early on a
beautiful morning. I was met at
the South Western station by the
Princesses and Prince Arthur and
Eva de Morini. We walked up to
the Castle, looking at all the
points of interest and bringing in
the names of the various Towers.
Going in I was shown the rooms
FROM EDWARD VII TO PRINCESS MARGARET
(In the same possession as the Leila Milne diary is an autograph-
album which includes the above letter. The letter reads: “Dearest
Daisy. Will you' and Patsy dine with me here at 7.20 on Tuesday
and Victoria Battenberg and her 2 girls are also coming—and I
will take you afterwards to the Gaiety Theatre, Yours
affectionately, Edward R.”)
we are to use, “the Blue Rooms, ’
so pretty. Then the Princesses
had to have breakfast, which they
were taking off silver gift plate
and I had some too; then we
went to work, which was inter-
rupted by them going to say
good-morning to the Queen at
her breakfast.
I went down the corridor with
them and waited for their return
—a most beautiful corridor with
gold - embossed ceiling, and
pictures, and china—a perfect
treasury. I was more interested
in [General] Gordon’s Bible than
anything else; it is in a very
beautiful enamel and crystal
cabinet with a little plate of
inscription. There was a
beautiful Scott by Sir T.
Lawrence, bust of Tennyson,
Archbishop Tait, and the picture
of the Queen’s marriage, which
I specially mention as the things
I had time to see.
After more work we went to
play hockey ii} a very fine ground
below the Terrace and I was
again presented to Princess
Beatrice [youngest daughter of
Queen Victoria; she had been
married to Prince Henry of
Battenberg; the family name in
England was changed in the First
World War to Mountbatten ; the
Duke of Edinburgh is in the
relationship].
Then more work (when we had
recovered breath a little); lunch
in Madame’s [the Duchess’s]
room with her, Princess Daisy
and Eva de Morini. Then when
P.P. [Patricia] returned from the
Queen’s lunch, she, Madame and
I walked out. It was all very
beautiful, the sentries presenting-
arms as the Royalties pass. As
we were returning from hockey,
very hot and flustered, the Queen
in her little carriage came down,
with Princess Christian beside her
and many dogs barking. She wore
a large hat and veil, and as we
stood concealed in a doorway she
did not see us. The Princesses,
and consequently myself, are
located in Edward Ill’s Tower.
Tuesday : Arrived at the
Castle and had to explain myself
to the policeman at the entrance
to the quadrangle. He must have
been reassured to see two smiling
faces awaiting me on the
door-step of our entrance. We
first went to Parish Church to
morning service, then a walk.
Aftqr lessons (much interrupted)
at 1.30 the Princesses and Prince
Arthur took me on an explora-
tion along the corridor, of which
I think I should never be tired,
to the Drawing-room—white, red
and green—the Queen’s Dining-
room, the Chapel, St. George’s
Hall. I and Eva de Morini
lunched with the Household,
meeting in the Red Drawing-
room and proceeding to the
Luncheon - room. Lord
Clarendon at head of table, two
Maids of Honor, Hon. F.
Drummond and Hon. B.
Lambert, Miss H. Phipps, the
Battenberg fraulein and our-
selves. We were waited on by
powdered footmen in silk and
plush and a Highlander. The
“Household” conversation was
mediocre on this occasion.
After lunch Princess Patsy
took me up to the Round Tower
and through many staircases.
Then we walked to Frogmore
and into the gardens. Princess
Daisy was driving with the
Queen and we saw them return
from the windows. I came away
leaving Windsor lighted and
under moonlight—beautiful.
'Thursday : Delightful, though
we only went to see the grottoes
in the morning—probably made
for the daughter of George 111.
Before lunch we went through
beautiful places; Waterloo
Gallery, all adorned with
portraits by or after Lawrence,


of men connected with Waterloo
—the Black Brunswick is the
finest. Then to the tapestries,
very fine (not so hideous as
usual), the story of Esther and
of the North-West Passage. Full
of cases of weapons and orders,
with teeth of crystal from Serin-
gapatam (N.B. I call it loot).
Then the Vandyke Room,
beautiful with Charles I and his
Henrietta—their descendants in
the persons of my Princesses did
not much admire them.
Friday : I saw many and
wonderful things. First St.
George’s, where our Princesses
were not recognised and we were
nearly turned away. The choir
is most beautiful. Very dim, with
the Garter Knights’ banners hung
all round the sides. Above the
stalls are wonderful carved
images, and on the heads of these
are placed the knight’s crown (or
coronet and baton) —when the
Lords come, his sword; the
Queen’s hangs facing the altar.
As the knights die little shields
with their names are placed in
their stalls. As new ones are
made, the older ones are moved
cn, the newest taking the place
nearest to the altar.
In the centre of the chancel is
a grey slab, saying that below
lie Henry VIII, Jane Seymour,
Charles I. We were taken into
beautiful little chapels ; in one is
a quite perfect figure of the
Prince Imperial, recumbent, quite
simple—the words found in his
prayer-book put in gold letters
on the stone. [He was the only
child of Napoleon III; joined the
British Army and was killed by
Zulus.]
At lunch the Queen asked
where we had been, and then said
they might like to go to the
mausoleum of the Duchess of
Kent, which that day (I believe
the anniversary of her death)
would he open, so we did. It is
close to Frogmore and close, too,
to the Castle and Prince
Consort’s. At the top of a flight
of steps, a large sarcophagus with
immortelle and palm and
wreaths of fresh flowers, which
we thought the Queen herself
had been there to place on it.
Above a Roman lamp is always
burning and can be seen in a little
grating in the door. Ascending
higher, we came to the dome,
where is a quite charming statue
of the Duchess of Kent, really
lifelike and gracious—it seemed
a little lonely to shut up so living
an object in it.
Later we went to the library,
built by Queen Elizabeth, with a
beautiful mantelpiece of her time,
in which a bust of her was placed
in William IV’s days; before the
fireplace stands a needlework
screen made by Princess Louise.
It is in this room that Queen
Elizabeth’s ghost is said to
appear, and lately she is sup-
posed to have appeared to a
young officer of the Guards,
walking from the fireplace to the
window.
The tiny off-room, where
Queen Anne received the news
of Blenheim, just out from the
library, and a facsimile of his
[Marlborough’s] very simple
letter and bust of Queen Anne
are there, with two of the little
Marlboro’ banners that are sent
every year hung above.
We had come in by the Great
Entrance, where sovereigns
arrive, and returning the
Princesses took me into the
Queen’s own room, being com-
fortable and charming.
Saturday: St. Patrick’s Day
was kept up at Windsor this year
with much observance, but I was
not myself there.
Monday ; I received the
astonishing news that I' was to
take the Princesses to Ireland to
be there during the Queen’s visit.
I was greatly delighted. We
played a lively game of hockey
during everyone’s lunch-time.
Eva and myself went down to
see the Holbein and some other
pictures. We wandered through
many rooms and specially into
the Garter Investiture Room,
which is not now used, but has a
throne —a kind of stool on which
I believe the person to be
knighted knelt; chair done in
Garter-blue and pictures; one
notable one of the first investi- •
ture, Edward 111, very noble,
near the altar.
Thursday : More hockey—
that makes the morning walk, so
to speak—and at two o’clock as
we were going to lunch we
watched the Queen drive off on
her visit to the Herbert Hospital.
She had the scarlet outrider and
THE CONNAUGHT SIGNATURES
(The Duke of Connaught married Princess
Louisa Margaret of Prussia. He was a
Governor-General of Canada. In 1910 he
opened the Union Parliament in South
Africa on behalf of King George V. The
signatures make up a page of the Sydney-
owned autograph-album which includes the
letter of Edward VII reproduced opposite
and autographs of other members of British
and European Royalty mentioned in the
diary.)
her bonnet with the white feather.
We heard later what a wonderful
day it had been.
The Princess Victoria said it
was impossible to hear each other
speak for the roar of cheering—
that the Arsenal workmen were
a sight, that Blackheath was a
mass of people. The men in the
hospital were interesting.'' One
man in the Devonshires was talk-
ing to Princess Thore, and she
said, “You are better off than
your Colonel —he is a prisoner,”
The man said, “I don’t know —I
shall be a cripple for life.” She
said that perhaps after the opera-
tion was over he would be better,
and he replied, “One must agree
with a lady, but I know I shall be
a cripple for life.”
Princess Christian had talked
to one man and he had not quite
known who she was. When he,
found out he sent to ask her to
speak to him again, because he
had served under her son, liked
him, said that they call him “Our
Prince” and that he helped with
their games and saved their
money.
While these interesting things
were going on, we at Windsor
were driving out through Eton
and the town and park, and
lunching in the Queen’s own
dining-room, “the Oak Room,”
a cheerful place with a blazing
fire, crimson carpet, oak panel-
ling, a portrait of the Queen
above the fireplace and the four
daughters-in-law round the
room. The little Battenberg
children also had lunch with us,
and were conversational and
agreeable.
Friday : We again drove
through the park and by Where,
the wild boars are kept; home
by Queen Anne’s drive. Later we
rambled through the State
Rooms in the dim light and saw
the Khalifa’s black flag [trophy
of Omdurman], and dimly
guessed at sundry pictures. To-
day the Queen received a very
pretty verse made up by a soldier
about her chocolate. She was
pleased with it and will put it in
her book.- She has a picture of
every officer killed in a book.
She likes Kitchener and is sorry
to hear him so much disliked.
The letters come in piles and all
are brought to her, though she
does not herself open them all.
*One came from America: “Mrs.
Elizabeth Queen Victoria,
Windsor, London.”
March 26: Ladysmith letters
have come in today. The Queen
received today an additional
verse to “God Save the Queen,”
in which “Victoria” ends with
“Queen of Pretoria.” Wandered
through the pictures and
tapestries—the latter
most amazing, bril-
liant and beautiful
colors and extra-
ordinarily expressive.
Struck with the
strange likeness be-
tween Henry V and
the Prince [of Wales ;
next year Edward
VH], It seems too
long to retain family
likenesses. The Van-
dykes very fine,
especially the
children, who are
quite delightful, but
Henrietta [Charles
I’s Henrietta Maria],
with her satin, her
little curls and her
hard red brown eyes,
wearies me.
Friday : Drove
round the beautiful
park, St. Leonards,
that must surely at
some time have been
part of Windsor
Park; home again
up the Castle hill
through crowds of
Holloway College
ladies who had come
to see the Castle.
Saturday Morn-
ing : All very
hurried; a splendid
game of hockey ; an
attempt at lessons,
and away to meet
Nellie [a friend] to
see her off at Clap-
ham (where we got
an excellent tea in a very
humble tea - shop), then to
town and with my luggage to
Buckingham Palace and on in the
old familiar way of Underground
and bus to the Browns [friends],
to have a hearty welcome and a
very nice evening.
Sunday: To church at St.
Mary’s, and in the afternoon to
the Palace. It seemed rather
like going to prison as I crossed
that silent, dull-looking square,
but Colonel Egerton was there
and received me until , the
Princesses and Madame [the
Duchess] arrived. Then we all
had tea and I and the Princesses
The then Crown Princess of Sweden (formerly Princess Margaret) with her
family, the Princes Gust of Adolf, Sigvard, Bertil and Carl Johan and
Princess Ingrid.
were left alone with the house-
keeper (who is under a bond not
to give up the master-key).
We went rambling all over the
Palace, which I do not like; it
has too much gilding, too much
height, horrible painted marble
pillars and pilasters, but it was
interesting and some of the
pictures are fine and some very
poor.
Later (undated): We had to
leave [for Ireland] by eight next
morning and found at Euston
that it was a very full train, quite
unusual numbers of people cross-
ing over, and that is well for
Ireland.
- The landing - plank was
decorated for the Queen and
everything gay and busy. We
were allowed on the captain’s
bridge and had a splendid cross-
ing morning - tea id the
Princesses’ cabin brought to us
by a truly Irish stewardess, who
called Princess Daisy alternately
“dear” and “Your Grace.”
We passed the Channel Fleet,
the Majestic firing a salute as
the Duke of Connaught was
leaving her after visiting Admiral
Fullerton. We landed by a
private gangway and went into a
saloon carriage. There the
people gathered with red, white
and blue ribbons and pressed
through the windows and smiled
and were very amusing indeed
(especially when the Duke in his
general’s uniform arrived and
came into the carriage). Then we
came away in a train to Kings-
bridge. It was a very pretty
evening, with a sunset sky and
the Wicklow hills on one side and
HowtK Head on the other —really
very charming.
At Kingsbridge we were met
by the Duchess and the
Claytons ; the family drove in a
landau, the Claytons and myself
in a car, which I liked—easy to
get in and put of and, driven as
it was, not at all difficult to sit
in. We drove all through the
Phoenix, past the Vice-Regal
entrance, the Chief Secretary’s
home (where Gerald Balfour now
is), the place where Lord
Frederick and Mr. Bourke were
murdered, and on to Farmleigh,
which is a beautiful house of
Lord Iveagh, full of beautiful
tapestries and charmingly
arranged. From where I sit I
can see the Wicklow hills, only,
as it is raining hard, they are
rather vague.
The Princesses and myself
dined together, the Duke and
Duchess sitting there, and after-
wards they made us sit in curious
dark carved chairs in the hall,
which as you sit in them a kind
of iron trap closes over your
knees and you can’t get out!
Once Lord Spencer’s detectives
sat in them, and when the guests
came from the dining-room they
were found in this helpless state.
There are two “tame detectives”
somewhere about here now, but
in this outburst of loyalty and
national spirit one hopes their
necessities are a thing of the past.
Tuesday: The morning rain
was very hopeless, but it fairly
cleared for a time, and after
lunch I went into Dublin while
the Princesses went to see the
Queen on the Victoria and
Albert. At the end of a long
walk to the gates of the park I
got into a train filled with
enthusiastic people going to see
the Queen, as they thought, at
Kingston, only she had arrived
earlier than was expected. I
walked in Sackville - street,
shopped a little and came back.
The Royal party started very
early, and I went with a “pass”
into the Vice-Regal ground and
there had a long wait. At last
the Queen came, a small and
brilliant procession —my
Princesses in a carriage with the
Duchess and Prince Arthur. We
had a biggish luncheon-party,
and in the afternoon boated on
the lake and after tea rambled
about with the young people.
The house and views and country
around are lovely.
Wednesday ; A huge
luncheon-party for the Admiral
and Captain of the Fleet. I sat
between Admiral Arbuthnot and
Captain Dwyer, both old and
nice.
April 6: In the morning the
Princesses,. Prince Arthur and
myself walked to the Zoo
Gardens—they are rather nice
and the young lions born in the
Gardens very pretty and curious.
Lord Kilmorey came to lunch,
which was long, and afterwards
the Princesses and I went in the
car to the Museum to see the
mineral collection. We meant
to go quite alone and unknown,
but found that Captain Beresford
had sent a telegram and we were
expected and fell into the hands
of an inexorable policeman, who
insisted on showing us the Tara
Brooch, St. Patrick’s Bell, etc.,
and then handed us over to three
scientific gentlemen, so there was
no escape.
After tea tonight we went out
towards Castle Knock and found
quite beautiful stones. Just now
Princess Margaret has come to
show herself to me dressed for
the Castle banquet, the biggest
thing she has yet gone to;
nothing could look sweeter or
fresher and charming in a blue
silk with banksia roses and
diamonds.
Saturday: Quite a geological
day. The Princesses and myself
Went to the Castle Knock College
quarry close at hand, and found
the kindliest workmen, who
filled our hands with beautiful
stones and fossils, one of them
saying that he would like the
Queen to see them. So the
Princesses promised to give them
to her. Finally the shabbiest,
kindliest old lay brother, whom
I believe was acting as overseer,
gave us a handful of fossils.
After lunch we found another,
if possible finer, quarry across
the Liffey, quite near, just cross-
ing a private bridge. At night
there was a big dinner to which
their Excellencies [the Vice-Regal
couple] came with postilions and
policemen. In Dublin the Lord
Lieutenant is not allowed to
walk, nor to go to a shop. They
say there is always a policeman
in nearly every bush in the Vice-
Regal garden. I had thought that
was no longer necessary.
Sunday Morning • The family
went tQ serv j ce wdb tbe Q uee n
and j tQ East ] e Knock It was
cur [ ous and j was unpre pared to
kear spec j a i prayers for his
Exce n ency Qn Sunda y after-
noon two Q f princess Beatrice’s
cbddren came to go to the
quarr j es w ith us. Their
4
(Continued on page 27)


SPORTING NOTIONS
Horses owned in Sydney,
Brisbane, Melbourne and various
parts of New Zealand figure in
the weights for the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes (of £10,500,
li mile), highlight of this com-
ing Saturday’s Randwick pro-
gramme, when the Royal party
will be in attendance and a crowd
round the 90,000-mark is
expected.
With Carioca and other top-
liners engaged (final acceptances
are due tomorrow, Thursday),
there’ll be a select field of stayers
in the Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
As AJ.C. handicapper lan
Feakes gave more than half the
entrants the minimum weight
(7.0) he rates the majority as
holding a poor show of lifting
the major part of the stake-
money, though anything can
happen in racing and a surprise
may be in store. However,
Carioca is regarded as possessing
an undeniable chance.
This year’s Victorian autumn
carnival will be the most im-
portant for many years, as the
Royal visit coincides ,with the
V.R.C.’s first . day (Feb. 27),
when the £10,500 Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes (13 furlongs) will be
the feature event. In addition
to this highlight the £3OOO New-
market and the £5300 Duke of
Edinburgh Australian Cup will
also be programmed.
• • • •
A difficult double to win is
the V.A.T.C. Oakleigh Plate
and the V.R.C. Newmarket
Handicap ; only five horses have
landed both sprints in the same
year. They were William Tell,
Malua, Wakeful, Aurie’s Star
and Cromwell. The Oakleigh
Plate will be decided at Caul-
field next Saturday week, and
a galaxy of sprinting talent will
appear in the line-up.
Sydney trainers won the Caul-
field Futurity Stakes last year
with Bob Cherry and in the
previous season with San
Domenico, while Bernborough
landed the money in 1946 and
High Caste in 1942. With
Carioca and others engaged in
this year’s contest, Sydney could
again supply the Futurity winner.
Carioca has proved his versa-
tility, and though he will come
back suddenly from a mile and
a half—Queen Elizabeth Stakes
at Randwick on February 6
he should acquit himself well in
the Caulfield dash, if it is de-
cided to start, and this looks his
programme, as he was a late entry
for the sprint at a £5O fee.
It has occasionally paid an
owner to make a late entry for
the Futurity Stakes, some of its
winners being last - minute
nominations; this year’s £4OOO
prize makes the late-entry fee of
£5O a luxury wager if you win.
As well as Carioca, Melbourne’s
crack three-year-old Cromis,
New Zealand’s top-line handi-
capper My Hero, as well as
Peshawar, Sir Isfahan and
Foreign Exchange, are all late
entries. Conditions governing
the race are complex, but it has
been won by the best horses in
the land, and this year’s field will
be top-class.
It should be noted that
Carioca, after a winning sequence
of seven races on end—last of
them the A.J.C. Summer Cup,
13 furlongs, 12 months ago—was
given a brief rest, then finished
third in a six-furlongs race at
Rosehill. The Futurity will be
decided at seven furlongs, and
its winning-list includes several
stayers, chief among them Phar
Lap, and more recently Counsel
and Royal Gem.
Several Sydney sprinters
figure in the weights for Caul-
field’s Oakleigh Plate (5i
furlongs), to be run on February
13—shqrtest major handicap on
the Australian Turf calendar. It
seems fairly certain some of the
better - class sprinters from
Sydney will line up for the £3OOO
contest, though there were no
starters from Sydney in last
year’s race. Winlake won the
sprint last season, beating
favorite Sir Isfahan and Desert
Breeze.
Last September 15 barrier-
trials under race conditions were
decided at Randwick, and kpeed
was a feature of the proceedings.
With the two-year-old season
now four months advanced it’s
interesting to recall names of the
trial winners. They were Over-
spin, Karen, Mazooka, Bali
Swell, Baudelaire, Court News,
Pipes of Pan, Seafon, Charente,
Biff, Castle Moat, Hathor, Gulf
Papi, Radiant Queen and Man of
Law. Last-named was a
2100gns. yearling. He had a few
unplaced outings early in the
Season. Of the 15 youngsters
named, 10 subsequently won
races, so, apart from serving a
most useful educational purpose,
the trials provided a good
pointer,
• • • •
Tasmanian Turf Club’s Laun-
ceston Cup meeting will be on
February 6, 10 and 13—21
events, with the principal races
the £ll5O Cup (including a £l-50
trophy), the Tasmanian Derby
and the George Adams Handi-
cap. Secretary W. C. S. Oliver
has everything ready for a bril-
liant opening, and owners have
made generous nominations.
Launceston Cup (now ly mile)
was first run in 1866, five years
after the first Melbourne Cup
was staged. In its first years it
was a three-miles race, loiter de-
cided at two miles, then If mile,
and since 1892 at \\ mile. Tar-
combe, 1950 winner, ran the 12
furlongs in 2min. 29isec., a
Tasmanian record.
There were some hardy gal-
lopers in the early years of
Australian racing. One such
was Strop, who twice won the
Launceston Cup at three miles
(1866 and 1869) and again in
1874, when it was decided at
two miles, A son of Panic, who
won the first Launceston Cup in
1865, Strop’s initial success was
as a four-year-old. He was a
seven-year-old for his second
Cup win and an advanced 11
years for his third. Horses don’t
last like that these days. The
old-time trainers gave their gal-
lopers plenty, and horses didn’t
have perfect running-grounds to
race over. Strop also won the
Hobart Cup (two miles) in
1876 ; if the records are corrfect,
he must have been 13 at the
tim^l
/ Three-year-old Brueghel (It.)
filly Julie Gai recently came to
Sydney with a fair country repu-
tation —three consecutive wins—
but she didn’t act to expectations
at her first city start, which was
at Rosehill. However, she was
new to the starting-stalls and
maybe will soon race better in
.restricted company. The filly’s
dam, Fossil, is also dam of that
former smart galloper De La
Salle, whose Sydney wins in-
cluded the 1948 Epsom. Bred in
1939, Fossil was got by David,
while her dam Thetis was. by
Manfred, another top-ranking
performer. Incidentally, Julie
Gai, who carried the De La Salle
colors, was the last horse broken
in by Wilfred Kong, and rather
appropriately she won the
Somerton Wilfred Kong
Memorial Cup at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) on Boxing Day last,
beating her stablemate, Pem-
broke.
Sydney jockeys G. Moore and
W. Cook enjoyed a grand early
winning-run in two-year-old
events last season and almost
scooped the metropolitan-area
pool for the first four months,
but the luck wasn’t continued this
term. Up till the end of January
—the two-year-old season began
early in October—Moore and
Cook had each ridden a couple
of winners. Fourteen horsemen
had shared winning-honors, with
A. Ward the most successful (six
wins). N. Sellwood had piloted
five winners and W. Gamer four.
B. Smith and J. O’Sullivan each
had ridden three winners.
There’s some falling-off in
number of entrants for the A.J.C,
Doncaster and Sydney Cup, main
handicaps of the Randwick
autumn fixture. The Doncaster
entry of 130 compares with 183
last year, the Cup brought in 110,
as against 152 last autumn—-the
smallest combined nomination
for about 15 years. It might
indicate that the ranks of owners
are lessening. After all, costs
are at their highest peak, and
owners must get results to keep
in the game. New Zealand pro-
vided 10 entries for the Cup,
which is a pleasing note ; Queens-
land, Victoria and South Aus-
tralia also made their contribu-
tion.
• • • t
Singapore race-track is held
by those who have seen it to be
one of the most beautiful in the
“Goodbye to tennis for the afternoon—Dad’s
going prawning."
world, and members of Singa-
pore executive make every effort
to attract visitors from other
parts. Horse-stalls there are air-
conditioned, and the club also
has an air-conditioned hospital
for horses which includes an
operating theatre, a laboratory
and a dispensary. Most of the
jockeys are ex-Australians or
Australians on a visit. Several
keen Australian racegoers are
making a trip by air to Singa-
pore for the 'club’s March fix-
ture. A Sydney travel organisa-
tion is arranging an air-tour of
nearly a month at a cost of
about 555 guineas.
Four turf clubs conduct meet-
ings in Malaya, and there is
plenty of racing for various types
of thoroughbreds ; and, accord-
ing to reports, the doping of
horses had been so prevalent that
every runner has been swabbed
before racing, and, if considered
necessary by officials, after the
race as well. A retired chemist
is now supervising the swabbing,
which formerly had been done
by the Department of Chemistry
in Singapore. Though most of
The riding is done by Australians,
a few Malays have lately entered
the ranks of jockeys. They
should do well with experience,
because they handle horses
capably, both as riders and in the
stables.
♦ ♦ ♦
At Sydney’s Harold Park last
Wednesday night , champion
pacer Ribands became the first
Australian pacer to break two
minutes for a flying mile on an
Australian track. His time was
Imin. 58.75ec., only one-tenth
of a second outside the world-
record for a half-mile track. (Hi
Los Forbes established this
record in New York.)
The time put up by Ribands
is the second-fastest in Aus-
tralasia ; the fastest time, Imin,
57.85ec., was established by
Highland Fling in N.Z.
Ribands’s great sire. Lawn
Derby, was the first Australian
pacer to break the two-minute
mile.
Special lights were placed
around Harold Park track two
furlongs apart to assist driver
P. J. Hall; they flashed on every
30 seconds. Ribands beat the
first light by 10yds., the second
by 15yds., the third by 20yds.,
and he was 25yds. past the post
when the final light flashed on.
Ribands earned £1250 for his
owners, F. P. and Mrs. A.
Kelloway, who will send their
brilliant champion for a short
rest before he contests the inter-
Dominion championships. The
speed with which, pacing, he can
get round a track is one of those
phenomena which really have to
be seen to be believed.
«* . *
The U.S. tennis-players had a
strenuous season and a not very
successful one, and displays of
temperament at the end of it
could probably be put down to
this combination. At Kooyong,
in his all-important Davis Cup
match with Hoad, Trabert com-'
plained of the partiality shown
towards the Australian. But, the
doubles fiasco having apparently
presented the‘Cup to America,
Hoad (i.e., Australia) was fight-
ing an uphill battle, and the extra
enthusiasm could be put down
to that fact—certainly not to
hostility to Trabert personally.
• • • o>
Nor was there really any such
hostility in Sydney, though there
may have been some personal
feeling in the crowd’s barracking
for Bromwich. Brom. is still an
idol at White City, and his fight
back after losing the first two
sets to the younger man was
splendid. And the crowd were
all for Seixas in his quarter-final
fight against Rose,
* * ♦
’ In a special attempt last week
swimmer Jon Henricks set new
Australian time for 100yds.,
51.2 sec. He clipped eight-tenths
of a second off the previous best
time, made by himself last year.
His new time is still 2sec. outside
the world record, but that may
not be beyond him.
♦ * *
The Duke of Edinburgh »is a
keen cricketer and enthusiastic
spectator a!nd supporter of the
game—but it doesn’t look as it
he’ll be seeing any cricket in
Australia. A pity, for the Duke’s
sake, if not for the boost to the
game his presence at, and interest
in, a match would certainly give.
In one or two things there
was a similarity between the two
Shield games played this season
between Victoria and Queens-
land. The likeness, however, did
not extend to the results —the. first
match was won by Victoria out-
right, the second by Queensland
on the first innings.
In both games Mackay and
Ron Archer topscored for
Queensland—B6 and 76 respec-
tively in Melbourne (only bats-
men to get past 20), and, in the
recent match, 223 and 114 respec-
tively. Hallebone made a
century in each game, only Vic-
torian to reach three-figures
either time. And Neil Harvey
was out for 97 in both matches!
This 114 was Ron Archer’s
first century in Shield cricket;
he had made one century-score
in England. Mackay’s 223' is his
highest first-class tally. He is the
fourth Queenslander to make
over 200: the others were 275 not
out by F. C. Thompson against
N.S.W. in 1930, 253 by C. W.
Andrews, also against N.S.W., in
1934-35 and 215 by Bill Brown
against Victoria in 1939.
“J.H.”: Bardsley’s four trips
to England were spaced over 18
years (1909, 1912, 1921, 1926).
Bradman had four trips in a
somewhat similar period (1930,
1934, 1938, 1948). With the four-
year break between tours and
the longer suspensions caused by
the two world wars, few latter-
day cricketers have managed
four trips. It was different last
century, when tours were at two-
and three-year intervals. Black-
ham and Sid Gregory, for
instance, both went to England
eight times.
“K.R.”: After being out of
recent West Indies Test teams,
and now 44, George Headley,
known in the 'thirties as the
“black Bradman,” was back in
the West Indies side for the first
Test against England. He made
16 and 1, batting for an hour in
the first innings, but by report
was no ‘ longer the pre-war
Headley. In those days Headley
had hit eight hundreds against
England, two being double-
centuries. The first of the eight,
176, in 1930, was made in his
first Test. Twice he made two
centuries in the one Test, the only
cricketer of any country to have
done so. Headley also made two
Test centuries against Australia
on the first West Indies tour of
Australia (1930-31).
• ■ • • •
“Bosey”: England went into
the first Test against West Indies
with three fast-bowlers, True-
man, Statham and Moss, and a
fast-medium, Bailey. Recalls the
’thirties when England went into
ests with batteries of three and
four speedsters, Larwood, Voce,
Allen and Bowes, or, in 1936,
Fames, Voce and Allen. In this
West Indies Test, however, the
bek pace-bowling effort was by
the West Indian Kentish, who
took 5-49 in England’s second-
innings collapse.
“Mid-on”: The only bowler
to do the hat-trick in each
innings of a Test was Jimmy
Matthews, ‘ a Victorian spin-
bowler. This was for Australia
against South Africa at Man-
chester in 1912, in a triangular
Test series (England, Australia
and S’Africa). And those six
wickets were the only ones
Matthews took in that match.
Nor did he do anything else of
note in Tests —in the five he
played in against England he
took only three wickets, at a cost
of 277 runs.
• • • •
“Zorok”: Four wickets with
four successive balls (B.
20/1/’54)? In a game at Dale
River (W.A.) early in January
an 18-year-old farmer, George
Smith, took six wickets with
consecutive balls! And a seventh
batsman was run out during the
same over. From 2-31 the batting
side, mainly due to Smith’s
effort, were all out for 33.
“Prof.”: In a recent senior
club-game in Taranaki (N,Z.)
two brothers dismissed the
opposing side for 3! One
brother took 5-1, the other 4-2.
♦(Only 10 batted.)


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. ' Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS. O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
Divorce Notice
TO STANLEY BERNARD GOERNER ad-
dress unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife SHIRLEY YVONNE GOERNER has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
by you for a continuous period of three
years or more IF you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within THIRTY clear days
from the date of this publication In de-
fault of your so doing the cause may
proceed and the Court will pronounce judg-
ment and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this Nineteenth day
of January, 1954. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. ■ SPEED & CANTOR, of Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth,
in tho State of Western Australia, Soii
citor for the Plaintiff.
governess, a nice German lady,
came also and we had a pleasant
time, finding quite beautiful
crystals and other stones. The
Duke and Duchess dining with
the Queen, we had a young
people’s dinner-party—that is the
children, Mr. Hansell, Captain
Beresford and myself. It was one
of those occasions on which the
children show at their brightest
and most charming, and after-
wards Princess Margaret played
the piano and we sat in the
Iveagh’s very pretty library.
Monday: In the morning we
were in a pretty road, known
as the Strawberry Beds Road,
and were just thinking of asking
permission to search in a sand-
quarry when a quite charming
old lady dashed from a rather
nice kind of farmhouse and said
to me “Are these the Duke of
Connaught’s daughters?” and
they had the pleasantest, kindest
things to say; how they had seen
the Queen in ’49-’53, and how
she drove that way, and how
Prince George (it turned out to
be George III) used to drive
that way. Then, as I explained
why we wished to go into the
sand-pit, this charming old lady
darted into her house and re-
turned to present a most beauti-
ful piece of iron-pyrites, which
she called “Irish spar.” The
Princesses came away much
pleased with these friendly
people.
In the afternoon we drove in
two parties in Dublin, ostensibly
to buy photographs, and secretly
hoping to see the Queen drive.
Aided by the natives, we drew
up at St. Stephen’s Green and
saw the Queen pass with escort
of Life Guards. Enthusiastic
reception. Followed Princess
Ena with ladies, who graciously
responded to the crowd. The
streets were full of people.
Wednesday: Prince Arthur
attacked with German measles.
We attacked by rain. In the
afternoon I went with Mr.
Hansell in Flynn’s car
thoroughly native and enjoy-
able. Flynn was calculated to
drive over a stonewall without
difficulty. More rain.
Thursday: We had a most
enterprising morning’s walk,
going first to the Castle Knock
quarry, where quite an ovation
was given to the Princesses, and
they just loaded us with beauti-
ful stones and fossils. We
walked a good distance round
by Ashtown in very typical
Irish country and past many
little cottages, really with pigs
(white ones) running in the gar-
dens. Everything and every-
one I thought bore distressing
signs of poverty, but all we
spoke to were most courteous
and kind, including one man
from whom I really could have
fled, for the odors were enough
to knock you down.
In the afternoon we had a
deadly walk in rain. Princess
Daisy and myself walked to the
Vice-Regal, intending to walk
back with Princess Patsy, but
the rain was so terrific that even
Sayers [one of the household]
said it wasn’t a day for golf;
and then the Duke and Duchess
walked back, too —and .how it
rained!
Good Friday: ' The family
went to the Queen’s service and
I to Castle Knock. After lunch
we went on the lake, and then
with Prince Arthur to the Guin-
ness Bridge quarry. After tea
a small walk in the gardens,
and all dined together.
Saturday: We took a short
walk in the morning, and I went
into a cottage to pay for some
daffodils I had bought. In a
few moments, as we returned,
I found myself hailed by the
woman holding daffodils in her
hands. She wanted to present
them to the Princesses, who
came up and received them;
then, clasping her hands and
gazing, she said “Aren’t they
two beautiful ladies?” The said
ladies say that I replied “They
are indeed! ” but, of course, that
alluded to the flowers.
After lunch we set off for
Bray. It was by no means easy
to get there, as our horse reared
and jumped and distinctly ob-
jected to electric-cars; how-
ever, we went in the carriage
with other people (for a change)
and found Bray quite lovely. On
a warm, gentle, softly grey
Easter Eve, a beach with beauti-
ful stones and a lovely head-
land, we gathered stones,
examined rocks and were
charmed.
Easter Sunday: I went at
eight o’clock up to service, and
again, after pelts of rain and
hurricanes of wind, at 11.30;
coming in I talked with the
young people and then we went
to lunch. Afterwards the party
was going down to the Fleet to
go on board the Majestic, and I
was asked to go and did so
gladly.
Miss Maud Gonne [lrish
political agitator; the woman
of poet W. B. Yeats’s disap-
pointed but abiding love] was
having a procession that day,
and the Lord Lieutenant had
wished neither his carriages nor
the Queen’s tp appear, so- we
went in two hired cars, and as
we drove down the quay we saw
the procession going along the
other street, but it seemed
orderly and quiet.
At Kingston we were met by
Admiral Rawson [Sir Harry
Rawson, Governor of N. S.
Wales, 1902-09], who took us
on his launch. The wind was
very high and any amount of
water splashed in, but it was, all
the same, delightful and won-
derful to go over this great ship.
The officers, too, were so kind
in explaining and showing us
everything, and we went up and
down most impossible ladders
and in and out of turrets. The
torpedoes and the various de-
vices connected with them were
among the most wonderful and
dreadful.
We had excellent tea in the
Admiral’s room, and it was
lovely looking out from there
on the sea in, the sunshine. The
return was much as the arrival
■—a very cold drive back across
the Phoenix, Miss Gonne’s pro-
cession departing (quietly) at
the station. We all dined cheer-
fully together,
Easter Monday : Princess
Daise had to go with her parents
to the races, so Princess Patsy,
Prince Arthur, Mr. Hansell and
I went to Howth to spend the
day and find more stones. It is
a very pretty little bay.
Tuesday: A day of excite-
ments as it was the Duchess’s
Great Concert, In the after-
noon the three young people
and myself drove into Dublin
and went to St. Patrick’s, where
we took a hurried look round.
Then a little time in the bath
and then dressing. We met in
the hall for dinner, and the
Duchess gave us each a pro-
gramme. We dined all in the
Duke’s room at two tables. Then
there was a good deal of spare
time, and we all furbished our-
selves and shivered and walked
about; then when the guests
began to arrive the Duke and
Duchess and their children
stood just inside the concert-
room 'door, Mrs. McNeill be-,
hind and I behind her. It was
very pretty and amusing and in-
teresting ; all kinds of people.
One saw uniforms, mess-
jackets without end, diamond
tiaras, etc. Finally the room
filled and the concert began,
and then people began to talk.
Before it began Princess
Christian and Princess Beatrice
arrived and stood with the Royal
party; then, when their Excel-
lencies came, the Duke and
Duchess went out into the corri-
dor to meet them, and then
all went into the room. Madame
Marchesi sang and Wolff played
beautifully, so did Mrs. Klein
and Schonberger.
After the concert the select
party went to supper in the
Duke’s room. Princess Patsy
found me and then went to bed.
I filtered into the drawing-room
and was fed, then watched the,
people go. Finally the Royal
party came out, way was made
for their Excellencies and party,
and then the Princesses were
taken to their carriages by the
Duke and Prince Arthur. We
stood to watch the last depar-
ture, then the Duchess, Prin-
cess Daisy, Madame Marchesi
and I fled up to bed.
Wednesday: We went to the
quarry to see the ruins. There
we were joined by quite
the most charming Irishman we
had met —a young priest called
Father McArthy, who was kind-
ness and courtesy itself. That
afternoon the young people and
myself had a quite lovely drive
through Luttrellstown and
picked primroses. There was a
banquet at the Castle, so Prin-
cess Patsy, myself, Mr. Hansell
and Colonel Egerton dined to-
gether.
Thursday: I packed. Went
into Dublin and called again
at the Deanery. They were out,
so I went into St. Patrick’s and
saw Swift’s grave and monu-
ment and thought of his sad
life and Stella.
Later we dined and started
for England, leaving Farmleigh
on a beautiful warm night in
an open carriage; Colonel
Egerton with. us. We drove
down to North Wall, embarked
on the Banshee, a little knot of
people calling “Three cheers for
the Queen! ” After we had
passed we stood on the captain’s
bridge with Colonel Egerton
and Lord Chelsea and saw the
Channel Fleet illuminated —
quite a fairy scene.
Then we went to our most
comfortable berths and lay
soothed by the motion of the
engines and the consciousness
of gliding across the dark water,
and we slept.
At Holyhead we had Bovril,
and went into the train and
slept again, arriving in London
at eight—very hurried breakfast
at Buckingham Palace and home
at Bagshot for lunch.
May 11 : Princess Daisy
appeared for the first time at a
Drawing Room. She looked
quite lovely in her beautiful
dress, as fresh and simple and
sweet as she could be. Then,
following her upstairs, Princess
Patsy bearing her train, we met
the Duke and Duchess, and
she said I might remain in a
certain passage and see the
Queen come out, so Eva and I
stood behind the open door of
her dressing-room.
Just before she came out the
little Battenberg princes were
sent for to see her, and her
dispatch-boxes were carried in.
When she came put, wheeled,
we followed. The other Prin-
cesses came out of their rooms
and joined the procession. When
the Queen went into the Throne
Room we stood and sat in k
doorway looking out on the
picture gallery, across which
every lady passed, and in a
mirror opposite we could see
the Queen bowing and giving
her hand and the Princess of
Wales beside her. As Princess
Daisy said, “Aunt Alex was too
lovely for anything”; next to
her Princess Christian, then the
Duchess.
Later on we had to move our
place, and when the Queen had
gone Princess Daisy came into
view, making her sweet little
bows. It was altogether a
pretty and most charming sight
—I thoroughly enjoyed it. Com-
ing away, I went to see the
Browns, and then down to
Camberley.
May 21: I came up to Buck-
ingham Palace to join the Prin-
cesses. We have our rooms
high up, my window looking
over the garden, Constitution
Hill and the Green Park.
May 24: Tonight I could see
the illuminations for the
Queen’s birthday in Piccadilly.
In the morning I went to see the
Mounting of the Guard. The
Royal ladies were in the win-
dows ; I stood with the crowd
in the square. It was a beauti-
ful sight; the colors were
crossed with leaves in com-
memoration of the Battle of
Ramillies, As the Reservists
came by they played “Auld
Lang Syne” and “The Boys of
the Old Brigade.” Those who
saw it well say how small a
parade it was and that where
there were eight pipers, there
are usually a whole row. The
music was quite beautiful.
I went with the Duchess, the
Princesses, Prince Arthur, Mrs.
Egerton and Mrs. Phipps to the
new Hippodrome. I liked the
Biograph very much. [This was
the early forerunner of the
movies.] It is the Queen’s birth-
day, and in the midst we had a
song about Mafeking and the
Queen. Then they played “God
Save the Queen,” and we stood
and sang. Altogether it was
played three times in this per-
formance.
Last week London has been
mad over the relief of Mafe-
king, Princess Victoria has
made a nonsense verse on the
ladies at the front:
There was a young lady of Berwick,
Whose nature was highly hysteric;
She followed the guns,
And distributed buns
To the men who were down with
enteric.
Friday, May 25: The Prin-
cesses and I went to the New
Gallery, which is always de-
lightful ; the portraits of lan
Hamilton and a little girl—
both, I think, Sargents—are very
fine, and there are two beauti-
fully painted Shannons, of
which the treatment is, we
thought, more beautiful than
the subject. On returning we
found the Mall full of Drawing
Room carriages. Going out in
the afternoon the square here
was filled with Guards and a
band, the outer part with Life
Guards. As we passed between
these Lord Hamilton recognised
Princess Daisy and arms were
presented—it was so amusing.
We went to Jermyn-street
Museum and had a delightful
time among the stones.
Tuesday: In the afternoon
we drove to South Kensington
Geological Museum and had a
quite delightful time there.
Wednesday : Princess Daisy
went to the Derby, and I, being
free, went to Bameses’ to lunch
and enjoyed it.
Thursday : This afternoon
we went to Jermyn-street
[Museum] again. In the even-
ing the Duke, the Princesses,
Colonel Egerton and I went to
the Lyric to see “Floradora.” It
had been reported that the
troops would be, or were, in
Pretoria, and, quite prematurely,
there was a kind of Peace and
War Tableau in the middle
and various patriotic allusions
through the performance.
Friday : This afternoon Prin-
cess Patsy, Eva and I went to see
Kensington Palace —a charming
place, full of historic interest
and with some good portraits.
Princess Patsy and I went in to
call on Princess Louise, who
was most kind and took us to
her studios. I like her and
her house, which is delightfully
old-fashioned with very low
corridors and a delightful quiet
light.
Whit Monday: Eva and I
amused ourselves by going on
the tops of buses. In the after-
noon the Princesses and I had
a drive through the park to
Regent’s Park. I dined with
the Browns. »
Tuesday, June 5: At lunch
the Duke brought in the news
of the entrance into Pretoria.
He heard it in his club, and said
the cheers came up the street
like rushing water. Very soon
(Continued on page 35)
WHITE COCKATOO
Now’they have left the moon out over the paddock
That should have been shut in the dark with the sun for
padlock
And pale like a ghost it floats where the blue noon burns.
Keep the night’s creatures away! For see, it’s escaping,
Whiter, enormous it flies at my redgum flapping
In a flurry of snow with black legs reaching, and turns
To a great white cockatoo that, bird or no bird,
Shrieks in a voice that only night should have heard
And rears up its yellow crest as wild as the moon’s.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE DEEP WELLS
Bells, cats and mirrors—all these are strange.
Queer, inexplicable things,
Hiding within their sounds, movements and looks
The whole and ghostly range
Of mystery.
A bell in the silence sings
Of death; a cat knows more
Than all the world’s books
Of magic, knows the lore
Of ancient time, pre-history;
And humans pass
Into the fourth dimension, into particular hells,
When truth stares back at them from in the glass.
These are deep wells
Of weirdness—mirrors, cats and bells.
PAPUA.
KIT DENTON.


British Air Superiority
“There was a time when we
had a long lead in jet power. It
may surprise you if I tell you
that this lead has not only been
BRANDAUERS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experi-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ON THE VISIT
Apropos the Royal visit, only
“Punch” seems to have got on to
“the suggestion of some loyal
ass” that the Gothic entering
Sydney Harbor should be accom-
panied by a thousand loyal Aus-
tralian swimmers greased with
shark-repellent “to avoid unfor-
tunate accidents.” The rest of
the British Press was more
reserved. Typical comment:
* * * *
London ‘ Daily Telegraph”:
“Though the Queen’s father and
her grandfather both made first-
hand acquaintance with their
Australasian Dominions before
their accession, she will be the
first British Sovereign to have
been made welcome there after
coronation.”
* * * ♦
“ Daily Mail”: “It is not
merely the Queen’s pleasure but
her right to visit Australia, New
Zealand and the other territories
—to open Parliaments and
receive homage.”
* * * »
“Sunday Times”: “She goes
now not just as Queen of the
United Kingdom, and thus ipso
facto of all her dominions, but
as Queen of these other lands in
their own right. It is as Queen
of Australia, Queen of New
Zealand, Queen of Ceylon, that
she will be greeted,”
* * * #
“Observer” : “More than ever
will the Royal pair remain under
public scrutiny, since the means
for reporting far-off events and
reproducing them in picture and
on the screen are expanding as
fast as does the world’s interest
in the British Monarchy.”
» * * ♦
“Daily Express” : “It is easier
to get from London to Sydney, in
Australia, than it was to get
from London to York in the
days of the first Elizabeth.”
* * * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “The
ordinary man reading their pro-
gramme, day following day of
exacting functions, perpetual
exposure to the public gaze, feels
appalled at the ordeal. Theirs is
a hard job, and the miracle is that
they do it so well and with so
much grace and good humor.”
* * * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “She and
the Duke, with their zest and
intelligence, will bring an assur-
ance to Australia and New
Zealand that the old country.is
young in spirit, sound in heart
and ready for every test that the
future may hold.”
* * * *
“New York Times”: “The
changing years have shown that
the most important function of
the monarch is to act as a rally-
in g-point for the loyalties of
people as disparate as a Calgary
rancher, a Sydney shopkeeper
and a rural dean in Devon.”
cut down but in certain respects
has been lost entirely.”
Those who remember the
British habit of springing tech-
nical miracles out of the top-
secret box might take that state-
ment with a grain of salt —if it
didn’t come from Sir Thomas
Sopwith, a name that carries a
lot of weight in aviation.
Sir Thomas was not question-
ing the current British superiority
London "News Chronicle”
"I SAID ‘WHAT A SHAME BRITAIN’S LOSING
HER JET LEAD.’”
in civil jet-liners, nor the Service
aircraft of tomorrow. What he
was getting at —as London
“News Chronicle” put it —“is
that we have no planes in view
for the day after tomorrow, while
other people have. Britain has
neglected research into very high-
speed flight at very high
altitudes.”
After pointing out that
“America, probably Russia and,
to a small extent, France are
probing into realms of speed far
exceeding that of sound,”
London “Financial Times” went
on to say that “America has
flown one rocket-powered air-
craft at twice, and another at
two-and-a-half times, the speed
of sound. It has at least one jet
aircraft and possibly two de-
signed for supersonic speeds in
level flight. Against this, Britain
has little to offer.
“So far as is generally known,
there are no plans [in the U.K.]
for building high-speed aircraft
comparable with those now being
tested in other countries. And
this is where we have lost, or
are in grave danger of losing, the
lead which we now enjoy.
“What stands in the way of
further advance is purely and
simply the cost of the new
research and production. In
America, plans for building
35,000-ton presses for the expan-
sion of titanium output and for
the development of an atomic
engine have long been in exist-
ence, integrated with pro-
grammes of aeronautical
research.
“In this country [Britain],
while the amount of capital
involved, measured against the
time necessary before any return
can be looked for, has taken
investment in aircraft research
beyond what private companies
can venture by themselves.
Budgetary difficulties have at the
same time produced a cautious
and hesitant approach on the part
of the Government.
“The industry is being forced,
unwillingly, to rest upon its
laurels.”
Secret Diplomacy
Considering what might be
called its vested interest in the
subject, the overseas Press made
out a pretty good case of yes-
and-no in reply to Sir Winston
Churchill’s plea for a return to
“secret diplomacy.”
Sir Winston said at Bermuda
that “statesmen must be able to
talk privately, without an agenda
and without having to issue a
communique at the end. The
Press must make this sacrifice
to increase the safety of the
world.”
He was supported by Cyril
Osborne, Conservative member
of the Commons, who put in
with: “United Nations is being
sfowly strangled by overmuch
publicity. Television-cameras,
radio and Press commentators
should be excluded from time
to time so that delegates might
get on with their work and be
freed from the tyranny of
national publicity. Open treaties
must be retained, but they are
best reached in secret. Nations,
like individuals, need some
privacy if the compromises
which alone make life possible
are to be reached.”
London “Observer” agreed
and approved of “a return to
the proper use of secret
diplomacy. It is now clear that
if any progress is to be made in
reaching even the beginnings of
agreement with Russia, it will
have to be done privately and
very slowly.”
London “News Chronicle”
kept a firm grip on both ends of
the question: “There is no deny-
ing that the Wilsonian theory
about ‘open covenants, openly
arrived at’ has emerged gravely
battered from the post-war
years.
“So long as statesmen regard
international meetings as vehicles
for propaganda, and believe that
to avoid loss of face they must
maintain rigid positions, publicly
announced in advance, little is
likely to be accomplished.
“Yet the alternative cannot be
that public opinion in a demo-
cratic country should surrender
control of foreign policy to
Ministers who decline to submit
or even to divulge their decisions
until it is too late to modify
them.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” more-
or-less agreed: “The forensic
displays to which the world has
been treated at United Nations
meetings make compromise
exceedingly difficult. Much more
might be accomplished behind
closed doors.” But “there must
be ultimate publicity when
treaties and legislation are in
question.”
The one really melancholy
note was sounded by London
“Economist”: “Politicians and
statesmen often give the impres-
sion that they must have some-
thing up their sleeves. They
could not, it seems to the public,
be so foolish as to embark on
some of the courses they choose,
unless they know more than can
be revealed to the outside world.
Unhappily, history shows time
and again that there was not,
after all r more up the sleeve than
met the eye.”
Inside Red China
Here follows a condensation of
a “U.S. News and World Report”
interview with Masanosuke
Ikeda, Japanese businessman
and member of Parliament, who
lately spent a month in China
talking trade with the Com-
munists :
“The people of Peiping wear
the simple Lenin-style blouses of
workmen. We did not see any
beautifully dressed women. I
felt that Peiping was completely
a city of laborers and young men.
I did not notice any old people.
All the people wear simple cotton
uniforms. But these are not dirty
and torn as they were in former
days. Now they are either new or
well-repaired. Even the boatmen
on the river at Canton wore new
cotton clothes.
“Foodstuffs of better quality
are scarce, but they have enough
to eat in terms of quantity.
Coffee is too poor to drink. It is
probably made of soybeans.
Sugar is also bad. There is plenty
of bread, but you get a stomach-
ache if you eat it. The wine also
tastes very bad.
“I think that, after many years
under the military cliques, the
Chinese now heartily support the
Mao Tse-tung Government,
They believe that now they will
be able to eat as long as they
work hard. This is the strong
point of Red China, I think. I
myself did not see any sign of
harsh Government controls, but
it is a fact that those who were
well-off are having a hard time
now. Perhaps it is too premature
to reach a definite conclusion on
this issue. Only three years have
passed since the revolution.
“Regarding their attitude to
the Japanese, I think that the
Chinese are confident that they
will be No. 1 people in the world.
They believe that China has the
biggest potential for production,
the most enormous manpower
resources and the largest area in
the world. They have a great
Nashville “Tennessean”
“LOOK! WERE OUT FRONT.”
feeling of superiority to the
Japanese.
“Everywhere in China —in the
schools, on the farms, every-
where —there was propaganda on
their desire for peace. On the
other hand we saw lots of posters
calling for ‘Resist the United
States and Help Korea.’ The
Chinese push their own
armament-plan while they advo-
cate peace. They explain that it
is only natural for an indepen-
dent nation to have its own
armaments to . protect them
against an unexpected aggression
by foreign nations. They do not
object Jo Japan’s rearming, but
say it must be carried out with-
out U.S. aid.
“I saw a great many soldiers
in Peiping, and, during the
National Day parade on October
1, MIGs flew over us. We saw
rocket-artillery and various kinds
of modern arms, I doubt if they
were Chinese-made. I saw many
Russians in Peiping, and the
Chinese told us openly that they
were learning everything from
Russia arid that the Russians
were kindly guiding them in all
aspects of national life,
“I don’t know whether Mao
Tse-tung intends to try to export
his revolution or not, but if the
revolutionary tactics which Mao
adopted in China are brought to
Korea and the south-east Asia
nations, where the people have a
low cultural level and standard
of living, then it will become a
real danger.
“I did not notice any adverse
effects of the Korean war. My
impression was to the contrary.
The Communist leaders used the
war to their advantage. They
aroused nationalistic sentiments
in order to promote production.
They also used the germ-warfare
propaganda to kill 44 million
rats and 1,940,000,000 flies,
mosquitoes and fleas.
“Chinese newspaper reports
about the outside world are not
fair, although actually the papers
do not carry much of this sort
of news. While we were in Red
China we had no way of know-
ing what was going on in Japan
“We did not hear businessmen
complain about heavy taxes or
speculate about the future, and
that is a strong characteristic of
Mao’s revolution. His policy is
to work for a mild advance
rather than a radical one. In
Peiping all of the stores and
enterprises are operated privately
except the nationally-owned
department-stores and book-
stores. They have not been
heavily taxed, but it seems they
are prevented from using their
profits any way they wish.
Underneath, you also had the
feeling that private enterprise
may be slowly oppressed in order
to encourage expansion of
nationally-operated enterprises
in other fields.
“The Five-Year Plan has only
been going for a year, and I
had no chance to visit the fac-
tories, but judged by what I
heard from the Chinese some
progress has been made. At
least they said so during
negotiations.
“Goods which China seemed
anxious to get from Japan
included construction materials,
steel-plates, fertiliser, medicines,
galvanised-iron, optical equip-
ment, rolling-stock and rails.
They said they were getting bull-
dozers and the like from Russia.
They talked a great deal about
Russian aid and made it very


How to help someone
in sorrow
When grief strikes a friend,
what are the most comforting
things we can say and do to
help?
Ministers, priests and rabbis,
who must console bereaved
people every day give their
advice in February Reader’s
Digest. They explain why our
best-meant efforts to cheer a
sorrowing friend may only
increase his sense of losst— and
give ten simple, specific sugges-
tions on how your sympathy
can bring a real solace.
Also in February Reader’s
Digest—“Do you shrink from
making friends?”, “I saw the
forbidden city” and twenty-
nine other stimulating articles.
One shilling and sixpence at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
Get your copy today.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established I HUS in Reign of,
George 111 .
STABILITY
The “Atlas'* has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
fire accident marine
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
— ——T
clear that, because of China's
low purchasing-power, the free
nations would not get much
trade with Red China unless'
they extended credits like the
Russians have done.
“I must consider the rela-
tionship between the U.S.A. and
Red China from the standpoint
of a Japanese. I think it would
help prevent another war if the
United States, instead of remain-
ing hostile, would have friendly
relations with Red China. 1
hope the Americans understand
that the Japanese people believe
this.”
U.S. Recession
The spate of argument about
the possibility of a U.S. “reces-
sion” which hung over the
beginning of 1954 was, to
some extent, set off by two
articles in the “Manchester
Guardian Weekly” by the Aus-
tralian economist Colin Clark,
. now teaching agricultural
economics at Oxford. 9
Economist Clark prophesied
a “rapidly mounting emergency”
for the U.S. early in 1954, and,
although his forecast was
thoroughly considered, it was
not very kindly received in the
U.S. The “New York Times,”
for instance, took to him thus:
“Professor Clark’s forebodings
are based on what seem to him
to be certain mechanical like-
nesses between the economic
situation prevailing t in the
United States in 1928 and that
of 1953. Well, we all know what
happened in 1929. ‘Business re-
mained above the 1928 level
during the first three-quarters of
the year, then fell heavily in the
fourth.’ By late 1930 ‘serious
unemployment was apparent.’
“The whole depression of that
period, according to Mr, Clark,
was dictated by ‘a concentration
of circumstances, each one com-
paratively small in itself, but
whose combined weight was
enough to upset the apple-cart.’
Inventories ‘were on the high
side, but certainly not abnor-
mal ; construction costs had
shown a tendency to rise..,..
Money had been reasonably
abundant, but a financial
squeeze was imposed early in
1929.... Finally there was, in
the course of the year 1929,
a slight decline in Government
expenditures, which helped to
throw the economy off its
balance. That is a complete list
of the factors involved.....’
“Well, there is one thing to
be said for this analysis of the
events of 1929. It should serve
to dispel that fanciful legend
that (1) in the late nineteen-
twenties the United States went
on the biggest speculative binge
in history, a binge that saw 40
billion dollars added to the
paper-values of shares between
1927-1929, and (2) that this
speculative bubble blew up in
a series of violent explosions in
the last quarter of 1929. That
was the quarter when business,
in the words of Mr. Clark, ‘fell
heavily’ for no seriously impor-
tant reason.”
The mutterings had hardly
died down, however, when they
were set off again by a group of
three hundred economists
gathered at a meeting in Wash-
ington who predicted in an in-
formal vote that 1954 would
prove to be a year of “moderate
business recession.”
The “New, York Times”
treated them with only slightly
less sarcasm than it accorded
Colin Clark. “This,” the paper
said, “is an interesting piece of
news so far as it goes, but it
would be more helpful and in-
formative if the public, or even
the statisticians themselves, were
a little clearer as to just what
constitutes a ‘moderate business
recession.’ Obviously, this vote
rules out any general expecta-
tion of another 1929-32, or
another 1937-38. It also rules
out, so far as the majority of
those voting are .concerned, the
belief that 1954 will be a better
year than or as good a year as
1953, businesswise.
“The trouble is that when
economic forecasters get away
from ambiguities and become
Minneapolis “Tribune”
“IT'S GETTING SMALLER!"
specific they are apt to drop in
so many ‘escape’ clauses that
the result is pretty much the
same.
“It will seem to many that
Martin R. Gainsbrugh, chief
economist for the National
Industrial Conference Board,
who presided at the annual
‘forecast’ lunch, ended it on a
highly appropriate note. The
predictions had moved him, he
said, ‘from cautious optimism
to optimistic caution.’ ”
The New York “Herald
Tribune” was a little more
respectful towards the econo-
mists. After noting that the in-
come of the American people
for 1953 was an “all-time high”
of 369,000,000,000 dollars, or
40 per cent, of world income, it
went on to remark that “such
pessimistic fears (of a depres-
sion) are themselves salutary in
effect. They tend to discourage
reckless speculation, based, as
it was in the late ’twenties, on
• the assumption that a boom can
last for ever. The voices of
warning raised during that era
of incorrigible optimism were
few and faint. The situation is
radically different today. Busi-
ness and industry are not afraid
of the future, but approach it
cautiously, with a sharp
weather-eye to windward.
“A generation ago economic
predictions were largely specu-
lative ; today they are based on
intensive research, not only by
the various Government statisti-
cal bureaus, but by topnotch
economists in business, industry
and banking.
“These economists are, of
course, fully aware of the com-
mon reasons given earlier this
year for expecting a recession
in ’54, but, against that, they
cite offsetting factors; the un-
diminished demand by Govern-
ment for goods and services;
expansion of local and State
Crovernment construction pro-
jects ; the Federal tax-reduction
programme; the liquidity of
lending institutions; a high
backlog of savings deposits;
unemployment - compensation,
pensions and farm price-
supports. .
“While they recognise the
prospect of a recession from the
unprecedently high post - war
boom, they believe it will be a
moderate one, which will inspire
a healthy trend toward more
conservative investment policies,
more efficient production, and
more cautious extension of
credit —all of which should add
up to a period of more stable
prices and better values for
consumers.”
American Support
for U.N.
Findings on a poll on the
American attitude to U.N. as
reported in the “Milwaukee
Journal”:
“Most impressive result was
the fact that 73 per cent, of
those questioned feel that the
United Nations, as President
Eisenhower has said, offers the
world the best hope for peace.
Further, 35 per cent, of those
people want a stronger United
Nations —11 per cent, of them
look toward changing the U.N.
into a federation of States aimed
at world government. By a two-
to-one majority those polled be-
lieve that Russia can be better
dealt with as a U.N. member
than it could be outside the U.N.
, “Another six per cent, want
partnerships outside the U.N. in
the form of democratic unions;
and 34 per cent, are receptive to
some degree of world govern-
ment, A majority fears that war
will come in the next 25 to 30
years, but a similar majority sees
hope for negotiations to keep
peace. Only four per cent, see
appeasement as the way to peace,
and only six per cent, feel that
war with Russia is necessary to
end the world conflict. Only
nine per cent, called for an isola-
tionist programme and with-
drawal from foreign commit-
ments.
“We see nothing surprising in
the poll results. Americans have
proved in numerous elections
that they favor the foreign policy
of the post-war years. But, sur-
prising or not, the poll is another
happy indication that American
sentiment is not represented by
the few noisemakers who beat
their chests heroically and
demand, that we ‘go it alone.’ ”
Russian Submarine
Potential
How has Russia, a country
with little pre-war submarine ex-
perience, either building or
operational, acquired what is
now authoritatively considered
to be the world’s most powerful
submarine fleet?
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” offers this answer:. “When
the Western forces reached the
Baltic city of Liibeck on May 2,
1945, they found that they were
only a few hours ahead of the
Russians, who had gobbled up
everything to the east along the
Baltic coast, including the big
German submarine stations
there.
“That gave the Russians most
of what'they needed —the bases,
the tools, the blueprints, the
technicians of Germany’s sub-
marine industry, plus the par-
tially finished hulls of new Type
XXI German snorkel sub-
marines. But most of the Ger-
man submarine fleet itself was
elsewhere.
“At war’s end, the Germans
had an estimated 390 sub-
marines operating or operable.
They managed to scuttle 220 of
these. That left 170 to be cap-
tured by the Allies. Nearly all
fell to the British.
“Britain sank 127 of the re-
maining German subs between
Dec. 11, 1945, and Jan. 20, 1946.
Each U-boat was towed out to
an area north-west of Bloody
Foreland, Ireland, and sunk in
deep water by shellfire, bombs
or rockets.”
Under the Potsdam agreement,
Britain, the U.S. and Russia
shared 30 of the remaining subs.
Russia thus picked up 10, four
of them of the revolutionary
Type XXI design.
“That,” the “U.S. News and
World Report” continues,- “left
13 of Germany’s war-time sub-
marines turned over to the Allies
but unaccounted for. There are
hints that 11 of these were in
the Baltic at the end of the war.
In any event, neither the U.S.
nor Britain has any record of the
missing subs, a clear indication
that Russia somehow got these
too.
“Thus, the evidence shows that
the Russians got a minimum of
23 complete German submarines,
including many of the latest type,
plus an undetermined number of
unfinished hulls and the instal-
lations as well as tools with
which to build many more. Even
more important, they had the
German technicians —who could
continue to develop Russia’s sub-
marine types beyond the Type
XXI design.
“From that point, the Russian
fleet began to concentrate on its
submarine navy. By this year.
the authoritative Jane’s Fighting
Ships reported a Russian under-
sea fleet of great strength, includ-
ing 27 submarines identified, with
their serial numbers, as German
war-time models. Jane’s indicates,
moreover, that about 60 of the
present Russian subs probably
are German models, possibly
completed from captured parts.
“Size of the present Soviet
submarine fleet is in some
doubt. The minimum size re-
ferred to by the U.S. Navy is
350 U-boats. But Jane’s reports
authoritative estimates that now
range up to 475 submarines.
Either figure is well above the
200 old-style submarines with
which Germans nearly won the
‘Battle of the Atlantic’ early in
World War II,”
Conceding that these figures in-
dicate a serious threat to the
Western Allies —both through
cutting of supply-lines and pos-
sible atom-bombardment of
coastal ports with guided mis-
siles —it is well to remember that
the Russians have had no war
experience at all in either operat-
ing offensively or, more impor-
tant, defensively.
More in a submarine than in
any other unit of a fleet there is
the prime need for disciplined
efficiency, particularly under the
extreme stress of heavy depth-
charge attack. And the British
Navy has developed this kind of
attack to the point where, once
detected, it is a very lucky sub.
indeed which will escape anni-
hilation.
New E.D.C.
In the original idea the Euro-
pean Defence Community was
to be a combined French and
German Army which would re-
place the British and U.S. occu-
pation forces as Western Europe s
defenders.
It was seen that that wouldn’t
work, and so the scheme has
been replaced by a new, very
different E.D.C. concept, the
essential thing about which (as
analysed by leading American
foreign-affairs writer Walter
Lippmann) is that “it depends
on tke continuing physical
presence of British and American
armies around and within the
lines of the European Army.
“This second E.D.C. is like
the first in that it recognises the
inevitability and the desirability
of a certain amount of German
rearmament. But it differs radi-
cally from the first E.D.C.' in
that it does not rely oh the E.D.C.
devices to provide a genuine
guarantee against the revival of
German militarism, German
military domination of the
Western Continent, and German
adventures or German trans-
actions toward the East,
“The second E.D.C. sprang
from the realisation of the British
that the nationalist and neo-Nazi
forces in Germany are stronger
than they appear to be on the
surface, and that it is not safe
to contemplate a military with-
drawal. Because the British
have shown a new intention to
remain in Western Germany,
there has been some prospect
that a modified E.D.C. might be
made acceptable to the French.”
Various Voices
Anthony Eden: “It is hard to
find any sign that the Soviet
Government have modified their
hostility to the Western nations.
Their propaganda continues just
as before. It is to be carried
out through strikes, the foment-
ing of anti-American feeling and
exploitation of colonial unrest.”
Secretary -of - State Dulles :
“The United States is primarily
concerned that European
civilisation should survive and
prosper. This cannot be done
without a European community
in which will be combined, in-
dissolubly, the interests and
capacities of two great nations
at the heart of Europe, France
and Germany.”
\
Sir Miles Thomas, Chairman,
British Overseas Airways Cor-
poration : “Britain today is at
the stage of economic recovery
when she can take a glimpse of
a pleasurable horizon, but the
ground will be cut from under
her feet unless there is plain
realisation that a higher stan-
dard of living can only come
from a higher standard of
effort.”


But three-quarters of the way
across and all realised that lack
of pulling-power and wheels that
came ungripped had doomed the
effort to failure.
“Well, that is the best we can
do.” Harg sounded relieved.
“Dam near made it, too,” he
added proudly.
Smith said “We weren’t in the
race,, right from the start,”
Ron shrugged, then smiled.
“No one can say we didn’t try,
anyway. Now I suppose we
had better back out of it.”
Harg pushed his black hat to
the back of his head, clamped
his pipe between long, strong
teeth, scowled and manipulated
the controls. The wheels churned
wildly. But the engine, having
come so far, stubbornly refused
to go back.
Harg grunted, shut off the
Steam and tried again.
“Now we are stuck good and
proper. Right in the middle.”
Smith grinned. “Can you two
swim?”
“That’s no bank to push up
back there,” Ron moaned. “We
shouldn’t be having trouble like
this.”
XJARG juggled the controls
with every trick he knew,
but produced no satisfactory
result. With a snort of despair
he shut off the steam and turned
for a conference with the others.
“What now?” he demanded.
“We can’t stay here,” Ron de-
clared. “We’d be washed away
in less than an hour.”
“And we can’t shift,” Smith
retorted. “You can see that for
yourself,”
They stared silently at one
another, seeking a solution to
the problem of their) predica-
ment.
“Tell you what,” suggested
Ron at last. “If I unqouple the
engine it should be able to pull
itself out. Correct?”
Harg and Smith nodded.
“Right. I’ll do that and you
can scram into the depot and
get a better engine.. Get the
engine of the down mail if you
can. And some cable.”
“But that is twenty minutes’
run from here, even when the
track is not under water,” pro-
tested Harg. “What about wash-
outs? Would we make it back
in time?” ,
“You’re climbing. It won’t
be water all the way. Anyway,
have to risk it,” Ron stated
flatly. “No other way, is there?”
“No,” Harg admitted slowiy.
“That is about all we can do.”
The decision made, the cab
became a scene of hustle. Harg
checked his gauges and oiled the
air-pump. Smith crammed fuel
on the fire. .Ron grabbed the
#ection-staff from its rack,
climbed over the coal and down
the back of the tender. The ball
of the coupling splashed spas-
modically as he swung it. He
left the coupling to dangle on the
drawhook of the engine, and
clambered on top of the first
truck as Harg took the engine
awav
Ron pinned down a few hand-
brakes, then sat on top of the
train and looked about him as
the engine went out of sig«»
round the bend.
IJE was marooned. Ahead, the
end of the bridge was twenty
yards away. The torrent was
tearing through between it and
the leading truck. The van of
the train was almost half-way
across. It was deepest in the
water. A broad expanse of tur-
bulent river whacked along be-
hind it. The trucks looked
forlorn in their dreary grey
isolation.
“So I made a bad decision,”
Ron thought. “And it will bring
on the sack.” He was not sure
whether he would be happy
about that or not. For himself,
yes. For his wife, no. Given
the opportunity he knew he
would do the same thing again.
He had taken a chance —to save
some cattle from starving. That
he had enjoyed taking the chance
was not the argument; his had
been a reasonable action.
Bat now he was offering the
cat lie a chance* of drowning
in; tead. And so»ie rolling-stock
m’.ght be lost. The department
would not be happy about that.
f And what would be Lynn’s re-
action when she found out?
Would she lecture him? Leave
him? Listen to an explanation?
A miserable dazzle crept over
the lonely scene. Ron sat on,
heedless of the restless cattle, and
so trammelled byjiis worries that
he was surprised to discover his
clothes were damp, his cigarette
a lynp tube of damp weed, and
that he was shivering in a gusty
wind.
There burst upon him the din
of frightened cattle. It sounded
as though they were trying to
kick the trucks apart and bellow
their panic to the hidden sun.
His watch insisted that the
engine had left only thirty
minutes before. Ron looked into
“ Disgusting! I'm glad I can't understand French."
the truck below him. It was
relatively quiet yet, but the cattle
were jostling uneasily. Con-
tagiousness of fear, Ron sup-
posed, and he noticed in quick
alarm an inch of water over the
floor of the truck. That meant
a foot of water at least in the
trucks at the other end.
Grimly he scanned along the
bridge. The van appeared to he
half-submerged. Illusion of
course. River was not that high
yet . . .
He rubbed his eyes, looked
away for p moment, then turned
a concentrated stare on the van.
More illusion —eyestrain. Now
he thought he saw it move. He
went to it’down the truck-tops.
From the* last truck he observed
with dismay that the stream had
swept the rear bogies of the van
from the rails. It was skidding
stealthily across the slippery
transoms towards the edge of the
bridge.
The sight sent an extra shiver
through him. If the van went
over it would slowly pull the rest
of the train down with it, like a
chain sneaking off the end of a
table,
WOULD the handrail stay the
disaster? No.
Would the engine get back in
time? Again no.
He dropped to the buffers,
reached for the coupling. He
had to lose the van quickly. But
the coupling was too far under
the surface for him to bring
strong action against it from that
position. He shook moisture
from his ears and nose, lowered
himself to the bridge.
The river heaved belligerently
•at his back. He broke the air-
hose, groped on to the ball of
the coupling, pushed with all the
strength of his short, thick arms.
The van had been swept back
and away as far as the play of
the links would allow. The
coupling was tight. He could
not unscrew it. He tried again,
desperately, straining till his
muscles pained. A moment of
panic and he tried to boot it
free. A log crashed into the
truck, swung in a savage arc to-
wards him. Ron made ready to
thrust it away, suddenly changed
his mind. A crazy idea had
occurred to him.
He seized the log as it smacked
him and managed to straddle it.
The log promptly performed un-
settling acrobatics and sub-
merged to a depth of two feet.
Satisfied, Ron dismounted and
allowed it to surface again. He
launched himself off the bridge,
towing the log with him against
the current.
He was the length of a truck
clear when the river had its own
way and forced him to start the
return journey. He climbed
aboard the chunk of old wood
and aimed it, with difficulty, at
the gap between the truck and
the van. He added his efforts to
those of the Wagton and the log
shot under the buffers and belted
into the ball of the coupling.
The ball swung in a short arc.
Burning \yith renewed hope
Ron struggled anxiously to find
an uneasy footing, pushed his
river steed aside and went to
work. The van moved away and
took up the slack almost as fast
as he Supplied it. He unwound
the last few inches in super-
human haste, grabbed for the
link. It came clear, scraping the
tip of the wagon drawhook, as
the rear of the van reached the
edge of the bridge,' tilted and
splintered a panel of the hand-
rail. It swung back, tilted again,
toppled crazily, and slid noisily
into the water.
Ron clung to the truck to avoid
being sucked under.
AN top of the train again he
began a movement for his
cigarettes. It stalled half-way.
He looked at his watch. It had
stopped. The wind whipped at
his soggy clothing. He shivered,
sneezed and came to the con-
clusion that it Would be much
more pleasant to be sitting in an
appetisingly-warm kitchen, in
comfortably-dry clothes, having
a cup of tea and indulging in
small talk with his wife. Yes
indeed. Much more pleasant.
His gaze roved bleakly over
the trucks strung out ahead. A
few near the middle appeared to
be leaning in the direction of the
flow. Up close they seemed
naturally perpendicular.
Ron sighed his relief and
wished for a smoke. He accus-
tomed himself to a squatting
position and observed, with an
air of detachment, the panic
jumbling of the cattle under-
neath him. Most of his senses
were straining to help listen,
above the rumble of the river
and the bellow of the cattle, for
the sound of an approaching
engine. Surely they must be on
the way back by now.
Abruptly Ron uncoiled from
his squat. The truck in front
of him had rocked gently.. There
was no question of -illusion.
The bridge supports were get-
ting shaky.
No bridge built could remain
substantial while tons of water
cascaded over it hour after hour.
Certainly not this puny Wagton
structure that was designed more
as an appeasement to the fury
of Nature than as a lasting
benefit for mankind.
Dropping to the transoms on
the lee-side of the train Ron
confirmed his guess. The bridge
was askew. The transom on
which he stood heaved beneath
his feet. The truck beside him
and the one next to it jolted in
sympathy. The motion dwindled
down the line.
Indecision fled. The trucks
would soon be hurled like debris
before the torrent. If the cattle
were confined till they were
swept away there would be no
chance of survival for them.
TN reckless haste, stumbling,
sliding, resisting continuously
the petulant pull of the river and
the nagging voice of self-preser-
vation, Ron floundered to the
rearmost truck.
Frenzied fingers fumbled on
the pins. He flattened on the
side of the truck as the tripartite
door crashed open in three direc-
tions. Two startled steers fell
into the water, crashed through
the handrail and were swept
downstream.
Ron directed a lusty yell into
the truck. Escape for the other
cattle, from this new terror, lay
through the opening. They took
it —angry, bewildered, frightened
animals.
Ron repeated the performance
at the next truck. Slowly he
worked along the train. In the
fifth truck a recalcitrant steer
seemed determined not to oe
evicted, Ron fumed at the
delay, clambered above and
shooed him out.
At the eighth he was hoarse
from yelling. The string of seven
empty trucks were behaving like
energetic jitterbugs. He cut them
loose from the loaded ones.
Thereafter he cut off as he went
along.
In the ninth three steers sud-
denly achieved an attachment for
the place they had so recently
attempted to kick to pieces. Ron
fell while urging them out. He
rose cut and bruised, but deter-
mined.
“Half-way mark,” he breathed
thankfully. “That deserves a
moment’s rest.”
The eighth wagon veered
sharply out of line and teetered
uncertainly from the bridge. The
rising flood was catching up
with him. Where was the
engine? It should have been
back long ago. No more time
out for resting.
ANOTHER burst of energy
replaced the near-exhaustion
that had been slowing him down.
Even so, he began to doubt his
chances off releasing all the
cattle before the remainder of
the train plunged over. The
bridge was swaying craftily now,
adding to the danger of over-
balancing.
As Ron chased cattle in the
fifteenth wagon away in the
distance a whistle split the air.
He heard it faintly, but spared
not even the time for a sardonic
smile. Behind him two more
trucks skidded sulkily into the
stream, followed a short time
later by the string of seven that
had first been emptied.
The sixteenth truck was cleared
without fuss.
• Most of the released animals
had already found the higher
patches of ground. They stood
uneasily now in one or two feet
of water, apparently not at all
contented with their fate.
The rear wheels of the six-
teenth truck crashed off the rails
at Ron’s heels as he moved on
to the seventeenth. The second,
last truck. Only two more to go.
He began to hope he might
succeed.
A door out of plumb on the
seventeenth caused precious
delay. The truck dithered
drunkenly from the moment it
was half-empty. The empty
sixteenth, attached to it because
Ron had not spared the time to
uncouple, was partly off the
bridge.
As soon as the last steer leapt,
Ron cut the loaded one off by
itself. The sixteenth and seven-
teenth sareened into the Wagton
at his waist.
The last one.
He started on it in a fever of
anticipation. Disaster was
crowding him-strongly, but Ron
felt he was going to beat it.
One pin out. Two pins out.
The third and vital pin—stuck.
Frantically Ron tugged on the
chain of it. The truck rocked
wildly, and the turmoil of the
cattle inside reached a fantastic
crescendo. %
Ron belted at the underside of
the pin with the palm of his
hand, heedless of bleeding and
bruises. The truck lurched; it
seemed ready to topple.
'T'HE engine came round the
curve two-hundred yards
away and beat a steady path
towards the bridge, whistling
triumphantly. Ron seemed not
to hear it, but it broke the spell
of his momentary frenzy.
He needed a bar, a slab of
wood. Impossible.
A shoe, then. He clung grimly
to the Wagon and dragged off a
boot. It had a solid, steel-
rimmed heel. He swung at the
pin twice and it shot from its
socket.
The truck bounced about on
the rails as the cattle departed.
Ron clung limply to the side
until only two steers, * cowering
in one corner, remained to be
saved. He urged at them
weakly.
A massive stick of timber
crashed into the truck and swung
it at an angle to the flood. The
last two steers consented to dis-
embark then.
The truck gave a final lunge
and started a lopsided slide into
the water. Ron, caught
extended along the side, went
along with it.
As the water caught up the
section to which he clung, Ron
jumped backwards, ineffectually.
He was sucked under and swept
downstream, struggling to get
clear of the truck and the rubbish
it immediately collected. It was
hard work and he was tired now.
Nothing was worth the bother
any more.
A sapling caught him in the
ribs. He clutched it automati-
cally. Somehow he found the
surface, still clinging to the top
of the slender tree that grew on
the river bank.
Smith and Harg, who had
helplessly watched the last five
minutes of the struggle on the
bridge, floundered into the flood
and retrieved him.
6 6TTOW does it feel to be a
hero?” Lynn Dighton
smiled as she brought her
husband a morning cup of coffee
in bed.
Ron threw the papers aside.
“The reporters got it all wrong. ’
“You mean you didn’t like
being brave like that?” she
as ked.
“Honey,” Ron said soberly,
“I’ve never had a worse time in
my life.” ,
Lynn snuggled on to the beo
beside" him. “I hope so,” she
whispered* “Us stay-at-homes
can have, such a lot of fun-
You’ll see.”


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company,
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and libera] settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; P. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A . Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BDKDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
branches in all States.
ABU
Circular Charts for all typot
of Recording iiutrumonts
tor mf <!*»• o* MithMwry
or Cquipmont
HCTEK CHARTS • Spoclak,
'o^iTuvan%lL
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
M
JACK
turning over and over like flung
toys.
Then the rest of the strike air-
craft unloaded , in a chain of
spaced explosions. The fourth
had delivered when Sherwood,
banking for his second run, saw
a sun-defying glare of light
erupt on the bridge, an
enormous glaring eye.
“Ammo truck, * sir,” com-
mented Blake. Sherwood grinned.
The effort Blake made to keep
his voice normal was evident.
By the .time Sherwood had re-
gained height and position the
last of the Fireflies was spear-
ing skyward, a thinning spray of
water beside the bridge indicat-
ing where he had missed.
But the Strike Leader had
little to complain of. The whole
length of the bridge was smok-
ing, here and there the angry
flux and wane of a fire. The
bridge itself was still intact.
Sherwood wasted no time on
the remaining trucks, which,
turned round, were beating it out
of the road that had become a
death-trap. He aimed this time
at the spot where the smoke was
thickest, the spot where the am-
munition truck had resolved into
its component atoms. There he
could expect the steel to be
weakened most.
He pressed his trigger, and
automatically pulled back on the
stick. A second or two passed,
so that he was well over the
point of effective release, before
he realised, with a shock, that be 4
had felt no weight-lightened''
jerk. Hell! Surely not! He
queried Blake.
“Did she drop?”
The observer’s confirmation
was definite.
“Hang up, sir.”
“Blast!” muttered Sherwood.
Blake’s voice this time was un-
inhibitedly excited.
“There she goes!”
Sherwood stared down, half
expecting to see his second bomb
explode on the bank. Instead,
he saw a wide, girder-studded
breach in the bridge, and a
creaming patch of white water
where the centre structure had
collapsed into the river. Be-
hind him the decisive Firefly
clawed for height.
Sherwood forgot his own pre-
dicament.
“Twenty-two Three, Four,
Five, this is Leader. Attack
bridge town-side of ‘ break.
Over.”
The acknowledgments came
immediately, precursor to three
aircraft turning themselves into
three bomb-dropping plummets.
Their aim was exact. Between
the gaping, jagged-edged break
and the bank the steel .girders of
the bridge fell in a crumpled
mess on to the savaged road. It
would take them more than a
day or so to repair that little lot.
Grim satisfaction in his eyes,
Sherwood called off the attack,
“Twenty-two squadron, this is
Leader. Skip it. You’ve had a
gutful. Reform. Over.”
With no regret he turned his
tail on the destruction below and
headed coastwards. He breathed
deeply. The last sortie. Only
the landing now . . . Landing !
The thought instantly transferred
his attention to, his unwelcome
passenger. If the bomb was at
all loose —and it should be, see-
ing he had done his best to re-
lease it —then a jolting, shock-
ing landing, with his aircraft
jerked from 90 knots to a stop
in not many more feet, would,
with a high degree of probability,
certainly make this his last sortie.
It was significant he thought
of Swan. He had no better flyer
with him.
“Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader. Approach my starb’d
side and check on bomb. Hang
up. Over.”
Swan’s voice was urgently co-
operative.
“This is Escort Leader. I
noticed she failed to drop.
Coming up now. Out.”
Sherwood maintained steady
height and speed. Swan ap-
proached cautiously, the two air-
craft dipping in the gusty air-
pockets of the hot morning. He
flew alongside for a few seconds,
then fell away in a graceful
bank.
“This is Escort Leader. Yes,
she’s dangerous. The tail clamp
seems secure, but the nose is
down considerable. Suggest a
bit of rough work to jerk her
loose. Over.”
“Roger,” Sherwood answered.
He ordered the rest of the
squadron to disregard his move-
ments, and climbed.
They were over the sea when
he began loosening tactics,
throwing his aircraft violently
through the sky. After five min-
utes Blake ventured.
“She’s still with us, sir.”
Sherwood did not answer. He
stared ahead through his screw,
deciding. It could —probably
would—work. Against that
probability was the danger to
both aircraft. And against that
was the definite danger, not only
to himself and Blake, but to
the ship, landing with that half-
ton canister of explosive ready
to be flung off by the first clutch
of the arrester-wires. The
bomb, as yet, was unarmed —its
vanes not having revolved. But
half a ton of metal violently
loose ■ under a landing aircraft
could most effectively transform
it into a hurtling, uncontrollable
fuel-and-ammunition-laden pro-
jectile.
He spoke into his mouthpiece.
“Escort Leader, this is Strike
Leader. Swannie, it’s no use. I
want you to try to dig the damn’
thing loose. One kick with your
wing-tip should work it.” He
hesitated, about to warn Swan
of the relative lengths of their
wings—Swan would have to
come up at a turning angle.
Swan, he decided, might know a
thing or two about that without
being told. “Can do?” he went
on. “Over.”
The novelty of the situation
excused Swan’s comparative gar-
rulity on the. normally restricted
R/T. f
“This is Escort Leader. I’ve
delivered you from some strife,
Richard. But never a bedmate
like this. Right you are, boy.
I’m coming up. Keep that
damned kite steady as you can.
Out.”
Blake watched the Fury sail-
ing effortlessly up to meet them.
The rest of the squadron was
well clear, keeping station to
starb’d, and watching. Blake felt
little apprehension, even though
he knew how much shorter the
Fury’s wing was —which would
bring her propeller in. His ex-
perience of these two pilots was
of long standing. Sherwood was
right. With the heavy bomb
hanging by a whisker, it should
take only a touch of Swan’s
wing to jerk it loose and send it
plunging, unregretted, seaward.
Swan levelled off, slightly
below the Firefly, and gingerly
edged forward and upward. His
eyes were squinted in concentra-
tion. Apart from the ordinary
hazard, he had to be careful how
far he got his shorter wing in
under Sherwood’s —the bomb
was close to the belly of the air-
craft, and if he got in too far
his propeller would chew into
Sherwood’s wing with telling ef-
ficiency.
He was in position, flying with
all the skill he had, and just
about to flick his wing up when
a sudden air-pocket dropped
both aircraft, together. Swan
hastily lowered his wing and slid
under the other. Sherwood
heard his ejaculation. He did
not speak himself,. but concen-
trated on keeping his own air-
craft steady.
Blake reported quietly:
“Coming up again, sir.”
{To be continued next week)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Typiste, Sydney, wants typing
work; used to authors’ manuscripts;
neat, accurate and fast; standard
fee.—5698.
To buy copy of The Naked Island,
by Russell Braddon.—5697.
To buy copies of The Giraffe’s
Uncle, by Les Robinson; In a
Trance, by Vivian B. St. Clair;
Sariska Benori, by Barbara Dale
Smith; and The Haunted Grange, by
Alfred J. Tay10r.—5696.
Words of poem “ ‘Banjo’ Pater-
son,” by Edward Harrington.—s7o2.
To hear from descendants or rela-
tions in Australia of the Radcliffe
family from the. Lakes district,
North of England.—s7l2.
Journalist, Sydney, seeks position
on country newspaper.—s7ll.
To rent, Sydney, furnished or un-
furnished flat or cottage for family
of five; permanent tenancy wanted.
—5710.
To buy copies of Recollections
and More Recollections, by Mary
Gilmore.—5707.
Englishman, recent arrival, cul-
tured, travelled, writer, a slim and
active 65 years; knowledge of stock
and general agriculture, theatre,
broadcasting and advertising; good
typist, able and willing to do any-
thing from answering telephones to
handling correspondence, seeks posi-
tion,—5709. ,
Service and Merchant Navy sur-
vivors of the M.V. Tarifa (H.M.
Transport 62), torpedoed in the
Indian Ocean, March 7, 1944, are
invited to write to Mr. Lionel Barrie,
155 Brougham-street, King’s Cross
(N.S.W.), with the object of arrang-
ing a reunion in Sydney on Saturday,
March 13, 1954. Crew members who
were serving in the rescuing ships,
H.M.S. Avon and H.M.S. Parrot, on
March 13, 1944, are also invited to
write.
—._ /
Does Anybody Know?
Address in Australia of any
squadron of the Legion of Frontiers-
men.—5706.
Where was Archer, winner of the
first Melbourne Cup, buried.—5708.
Information Sought
Is the poem “Casabianca” founded
on fact ?
Yes. The boy 'who stood on the
burning deck was Giacomo Jocante
de Casabianca. His father, Louis de
Casabianca, a French naval officer,
took command of the Orient at the
Battle of the Nile, following the
death of Admiral Brueys. Rather
than surrender, the father blew up
his ship after the crew had been
saved. The son, a boy of ten years
of age, refused to leave the ship and
died with his father. This heroic
act was the theme of poems by
Ecouchard Lebrun and Andre
Chdnier, as well as by Mrs. Hemans.
* * * *
What is the reason for the varia-
tion in the spelling of the Christian-
names of Governor King, his son
(the explorer) and his grandson ?
Captain Philip Gidley King, R.N.
(1758-1808), Governor of N.S.W.
from September, 1800, to August,
1806, and his grandson Philip Gidley
King (1817-1904), both spelt their
first Christian-name with one “1.”
Governor King’s son, Phillip Parker
King (1791-1856), the explorer, was
christened “Phillip” because of his
father’s great admiration for the
Governor of that name.
*** * >
A few particulars about the copy
of Magna Carta preserved in the
National Library, Canberra?
The National Library’s copy is one
of two surviving copies of the 1297
Inspeximus of Edward I (the 1297
issue of Magna Carta is so named
because the text following the saluta-
tion begins with that Latin word —
“we have inspected”). The docu-
ment is in Latin on vellum measuring
20in. by 16|in. An impression of the
Great Seal in white wax is attached
by green and pink thread. This
copy was intended in 1297 for the
county of Surrey, and handed to
Robert de Glamorgan, sheriff of
Surrey and Sussex from 1292 to 1298.
How it eventually came to be in the
possession bf - the King’s School
(England), where it was before its
presentation to the National Library,
is not known. The Great Seal was
appended to many copies of the
Charter granted by John (1215), of
which only four copies are extant.
Of Henry Ill’s first Charter (1216)
only one copy is preserved and three
of a re-issue in 1217. Two copies
exist of Henry’s third Charter (1225).
In 1297 Edward I undertook to con-
firm the Charter in return for supply
to carry out an expedition to
Flanders. This was done by “Inspexi-
mus” in the name of his son Edward,
as Regent. Copies of it were sent
to all the counties for proclamation,
but only two have survived. All the
extant copies of Magna Carta
authenticated by Royal Seal, with the
sole exception of the National
Library’s, are preserved in England.
* * ♦ *
(7) What fish {besides blackfish )
are likely to he caught rod-fishing
near Sydney (a) off rocks, ( b ) off
beaches? (2) Tackle and bait for
same ? (5) Are spinners, spoons, arti-
ficial minnows , etc., considered right
for this type of fishing? (4) If not,
where are they a success?
(1) (a) Groper, parrotfish and other
rock-fish; (b) whiting, bream, jew-
fish, tailor, salmon and kingfish.
(2) Tackle varies according to size
of fish sought, from fine gut for
whiting and bream to heavy cord
line for larger fish. For rock-fish,
bait with cunjevoi or crab. For
beach-fish, use worms, prawns or
fish-bait such as mackerel, tailor or
mullet. (3) No, although a heavy
spinner known as a tailor-guard is
sometimes used off beaches for
tailor; it is thrown well out and
drawn-in rapidly. (4) Towed behind
launches, either in the estuaries or
offshore, for tailor, kingfish, Spanish
mackerel, bonito and other surface-
swimming fish.
* * * *
Particulars concerning Roger Tic'h-
borne, whom Arthur Orton imper-
sonated ?
He was Roger Charles Doughty
Tichborne. Borti in 1829 and edu-
cated at Stonyhurst, he held for
three years a commission in the 6th
Dragoon Guards, but sold out in
1852 and went to South America.
He was last heard of in 1854, when
he embarked at Rio de Janeiro in
the ship Bella. The finding of
wreckage from this ship was taken
as conclusive evidence that she had
foundered, and in 1855 his younger
brother succeeded to the family
estates. His mother believed that
Roger was still alive, and' repeatedly
advertised in British and colonial
newspapers for news of him. It was
one of these advertisements that
prompted Orton to make his false
claims.
'*♦ * *
How to grow lilies-of-the-v alley ?
What special soil is needed? Is'there
any sale for them to Sydney florists?
Lily-of-the-valley crowns should be
planted in late autumn in prepared
beds of sandy loam well enriched
with rotted manure and leaf-mould.
Set the crowns 6in. apart, barely
covering them with soil; a month
later cover them with leaves as pro-
tection against frost. In spring clean
the covering away and give the
crowns liberal helpings of weak
liquid-manure. Lilies-of-the-yalley re-
quire a semi-shaded position, and
thrive well in a bush-house or con-
servatory. Divide the crowns every
year, otherwise the roots become
matted and the bulbs will not flower.
There should be a ready market for
the blooms, which are used exten-
sively in bouquets, etc.
* * * *
Can you tell me something about
spondylitis? Is it curable, and what
treatment is usually given ?
Spondylitis is vertebral inflamma-
tion. In chronic cases, and especially
in the aged, a general rheumatic
arthritis develops, most resistant to
treatment. Extremes in any form
aggravate the trouble, the congestion
and consequent friction of opposing
spondyles causing pain and deform-
ity as the disease progresses. In the
early stages, massage movements,
both active and passive, are usually
helpful; septic absorption from
teeth, bowels, etc., demands attention
where there is reason to suspect a
toxic influence. lodide of potash
may be prescribed as an internal
remedy. Medical supervision of
treatment is essential.
Brief Answers
F.E.W.: (1) The rotation of the
earth which produces the apparent
motion of the sun, moon and stars
across the sky is counteracted in an
equatorial telescope which has an
axis mounted parallel to the earth’s
axis. Then as the telescope is rotated
at the correct speed around this axis
it follows the apparent motion of the
heavenly bodies. (2) The moon ro-
tates on its axis at the same speed
as it revolves around the earth, with
the result that we always see the same
face G.W.P.: It appears that you
are mistaken about the installation
of boom-gates in England. The
“Railway Gazette” of November 28,
1952 (page 603), 1 states: “At Wart-
hill, some six miles from York, on
the Hull line, the North-eastern
Region has substituted experimental
lifting-barriers for gates at a public-
road crossing. These barriers, the
first of the type in this country, will
reduce the heavy maintenance costs
of mechanically-operated gates.”
Lifting-barriers or boom-gates on
similar lines to those recently installed
experimentally at a crossing at Wart-
hill in England have been in use in
N.S.W. since 1913. Boom-gates have
been adopted as the standard form
for interlocked gates in N.S.W., 33
installations now being in use, includ-
ing those which are either mechani-
cally- or power-operated J.C.: (1)
C. J, Dennis died at Melbourne on
June 21, 1938. (2) Suggest you see
The Making of the Sentimental Bloke,
by A. H. Chisholm C.J.E.: Write
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co., Ltd.,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney R.F.F.: The player has no
option. He cannot accept the ex-
posed card. After all the other
players have bought he is dealt
another card... .K.A.C.; Write
Superintendent, Vermin and Noxious
Weeds Branch, Dept, of Lands and
Survey, Melbourne, for Weed Con-
trol Sheet, No. 5, “Blackberry Con-
trol” W.J.H.: Suggest that you
write to the Chief Superintendent,
Long Range Weapons Establishment,
Box 1424, G.P.0., Adelaide....
S.H.L.: “Australia in Facts and
Figures” can be obtained from the
Australian News and Information
Bureau, Department of the Interior,
Canberra (A.C.T.) A.R.G.:
Article “Molonglo Consolidated,
N.L.,” by “El Verdugo,” appeared
in The Bulletin of September 23,
1953....M.W.: Write A. Mackay
Dick, secretary, Perth Legacy, 12
Howard-street, Perth (W.A.)....
R. Write Australian Broad-
casting Commission (Queensland
Branch), Penney’s Building, 167 Ade-
laide-street, Brisbane L.C.; Un-
able to discover any information on
the Earl of Ancram, A.D.’C. to the
Earl Beauchamp (N:S.W. Governor,
1899-1901), or of the circumstances
of his death....F.D.J.; The “pale”
was the name applied for some cen-
turies after the conquest by Henry II
to that part of Ireland in which Eng-
lish law was acknowledged P.P.:
See Useful Native Plants of Australia,
by J. H. Maiden, 173; also
Proceedings of the Royal Society of
N. S. Wales, page 125... .J.A.R.:
Suggest that you write to the editor,
“Farmer and Stock Breeder,” Dorset
House, Stanford - street, London,
S. F.J.P.: (1) Good hull
design, handy rig and efficient sea-
manship. (2) About 14 tons; sail
area, 500 to 600 sq. ft.; mainmast
about 35ft. (at most), mizzen 6ft.
shorter. (3) 20 to 25 h.p. (4) Three.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.G,: A council that repairs a hole
in the road on the day of the com-
plaint makes not so much a short-
story as news —though it might be
described as fiction; and the “galoon”
story overworks the mispronunciation
gimmick M.B.: Good of its kind,
but not ours M.T.B.: Wives are
sharp enough practitioners without
being shown tricks with receipts....
D.R.W.: Slight, that story always is.
T.J.: No comic Idylls of the
King M.S.: Your detective-story
is elementary, my dear Watson
G.R.W.: O.K., tough guy, but you
don’t eat on us J-E.O’L.: Penton
wrote a huge novel on it—there’s no
point in saying weakly what has been
said before strongly J.D.W.: It
[Contributions should not b.e
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor;]
had possibilities, but you overworked
them; and you can take it as a
general rule that stories about hatters
need not apply W.D.: Your terri-
fying ingenuity! J.E.T.: That
ancient pun might have made a
brief appearance in your story, but
you have made it the main character.
E.M.: No story in it J.D.W.:
Such goings-on! Ditto
R.G.: Not one of ours M.M.:
“Randal! My son Andrew your son
Randal —mine! Georgie! Did my
father know?” Even if he knew he’d
have some trouble sorting it out....
N.J.: Good sketch; poor story
D.A.E.: Gracious goodness!.....
D.K.: Armchair detective....
B.A.H.: Nothing to it J.McV.:
Don’t send all those mediocre ones—
send one good one D.L.: Well,
you tried to be funny “B”: We
tried to Uiugh L.C.: Not a story.
R.S.: Bad show J.A.Y.: “The
Pattern” was stereotyped H.L.:
Nothing funny any more about tak-
ing or not taking a bath.


HTS
LYS
PROOf
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
m !
B i
■ ♦
.'•*
m
m
m* ;
g i
-
I
m
mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Bros. & Co. Ply.
and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney
Lysoght
Reg’d Office
Ltd.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE. WIRE
NETTING
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Vanishing Fodder
“Stanley Weyman”: Wherever
land is committed purely to
grazing in the interior every
fodder-tree or -shrub should be
preserved, their seed harvests
gathered and sown to replenish
denuded areas, and rural people
taught their value and how to
preserve and increase them.
The king of fodder-trees, the
kurrajong, is being cultivated,
and rightly so, since its fodder-
value, hardiness and ornamental
worth stand alone.
But where are the other fod-
der-trees that once flourished on
the plains, and that will flourish
in droughts and in soils in which
the kurrajong cannot survive?
In the early days of settle-
ment mulga covered the inland
a thousand miles beyond the
Darling. In the Grey Ranges,
west of Tibooburra, where the
rainfall averages Sin. a year, it
grew in abundance, and again
in the arid north of South Aus-
tralia. Around Woomera two
years ago, when the rainfall
dropped to 2in., distributed in
light showers, when heat soared
and blistering winds raged, the
mulga held on unflinchingly.
For years dense stands of
mulga were a standby when
other fodder failed. It could
be a standby again, for few
plants are so easily grown. But
nobody seems to bother about
planting mulga.
The whitewood, sometimes
called cattle-bush, is another
stayer in dry country. Outback
in Queensland, out of Broken
Hill and along Cooper’s Creek
men swear by it when the
droughts come do\yn. They
watch their cattle and sheep
feed greedily on its leaves, but
they do not cultivate it. Apart
from its nourishing foliage it’s
a fine shade-tree.
Boree, or weeping myall, is
one of the loveliest of inland
trees, and a first-class fodder-
tree with a nutrient standard of
29 per cent. Today the bag-
moth periodically devours the
boree’s foliage and young seed-
pods, and so reduces hope of
regeneration. Apathetic Gov-
ernments have done nothing to
introduce a parasite to wipe out
the moth.
Another annihilating factor
has been the eating-off by sheep
of the seedlings as soon as they
show above the ground. But
boree is a prolific seeder.
Sowing in Pasture-sod
“Paspalum”: Many coastal
dairyfarmers don’t try to estab-
lish temporary winter-pastures
in permanent summer-pastures
areas because they’re unwilling
to lose any of the latter by
breaking them up, even for a
brief period, though they may
produce a surplus in the flush
season. Also, baring of hillsides
makes the land vulnerable to
erosion, a frightening prospect.
Sydney University has made
a heavy-duty experimental drill,
with special furrow-cutter
openers, for drilling seed and
fertiliser in without disturbing
the sod.
This machine appears some-
what impractical because of its
heavy draft requirements, and
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture got better results with a
rotary-hoe fitted with finer hoes
for cutting and sowing through
the sod without setting it back
greatly. The ordinary rotary-
hoe does well enough in kikuyu
sod.
Cheap Silo
“Ditch”: With a bulldozer a
very cheap silo can be built. It
is a form of above-ground
trench, the side-walls consisting
of parallel earth-mounds about
sft. high and 12ft. apart, pushed
up easily with the dozer.
Unchopped greenstuff is trans-
ported by buckrake and tractor,
and the latter used to firm-down
the stuff by travelling over it.
Such a silo has it over the below-
ground trench in cheaper cost
of construction, better drainage
at the bottom and particularly
in much greater ease in feeding-
out the silage, lending itself
even to self-feeding.
Also, such a silo and method
of feeding brings down cost and
is no more than a one-man job.
Hops
“Ilex”: Statistics indicate that
it will be some time before hop-
production in Australia catches
up with the beer-consumption.
Breweries’ annual requirements
are now approximately 4\ mil-
lion pounds of cured hops,
whilst it is doubtful if the exist-
ing acreage could produce more
than 3i million pounds, even in
a favorable season. The defici-
ency is made up by imports.
Hops are rather particular as
regards location and climate,
which must be temperate during
the growth-period from October
to February, followed by a
warm and not-too-hot March
and April to mature the crop.
The bulk of the crops in Tas-
mania grow on irrigated areas
in the Derwent and Huon Val-
leys. Shelter from strong winds
is essential, and this is generally
provided by close planting of
Lombardy poplars along the
boundaries.
Hops comprise plants which
are definitely male or female.
Male plants are kept down to
the minimum necessary for pol-
lination purposes, as they do not
produce a marketable hop. In
some areas in Europe they are
excluded altogether, as a high
percentage of seeds is not
favored by brewers.
If a female hop, when fully
developed, is divided along the
stem, a bright-yellow powder
will be found adhering to the
bracts. This, often erroneously
termed the pollen, is the essential
flavor-constituent and is known
as lupulin.
Hops, perennial in habit, are
propagated by cuttings or setts.
The plant has been well equipped
by Nature to be a climber. The
vine is hexagonal in shape, and
the small hooks that develop
along each of its sides give it a
good gripping power on the
coir-strings used for its support.
It is one qf the plants which
spiral from left to right; the
stem also develops a twist in the
opposite direction.
Under favorable conditions
the growth of the vine is fairly
rapid, , Sin. being sometimes
recorded between sunrise and
sunset. The bulk of the crops
are handpicked, but machines
are appearing, and recent models
are functioning efficiently.
Costs of establishment are
high, and range from £6OO to
£750 per acre, inclusive of wire
and timber for supports, irriga-
tion and drying-kilns. The Aus-
tralian industry is not beset by
some of the diseases which take
a severe toll in other countries,
and yields of up to 20001 b. of
dried hops an acre are common.
Silver-beet
“Emjai”: Tell “Delta” (B.
6/1 / ’54) that silver-beet will
grow anywhere in this Mel-
bourne district. The sturdiest
specimens about my place, and
most prolific in number though
not size of leaves, are self-sown
plants on a hard earth path, with
no shade. By far the best plants,
however, are self-sown in the
enriched pumpkin-patch, where
roots are shaded and leaves reach
up to full sunlight.
My cultivated plot, shaded on
north and west, grew big tender
plants, which quickly ran up to
seed, with few pickings. But
what really worries me is that
citrus-tree, under which is
“Delta’s” stand of silver-beet, a
massive-rooted and voracious
feeder. The citrus is a surface-
rooter, intolerant of close culti-
vation, and the havoc wrought to
its network of fine roots by the
“stand” of beet beneath is too
awful to contemplate.
Beef Crosses
“Silen”: Efforts to produce
cattle suitable for our tropical
and sub-tropical lands, by using
Zebu and Brahman cattle, follow
“ You'll just have to speak to Cranpa about getting
glasses, or we wont have a chook left."
the American pattern. There the
need for hardy cattle for both
extreme heat and cold has led to
extensive crossing.
The Brangus is a cross between
Brahman and Aberdeen-Angus,
the Cattalo a cross between
domestic beef animals and the
buffalo, and Brafaptalo is a mix-
ture of bison and Brahman.
Quick growth, disease-resist-
ance and top-quality beef, for
immediate use as well as storage,
are the aims.
Share-fanning Evils
“Sparks”: In some ways
share-farming is a drawback to
the dairying industry on the
N.S.W. North Coast.
In most of the towns are busi-
nessmen and others who know
nothing of farming but who own
a farm worked by a share-farmer.
Some have two or three farms.
Some of the non-farming owners
are policemen, shop-assistants,
tradesmen, doctors, etc.
As long as their cheques come
in regularly for no personal effort
on their part they are not likely
to be interested in providing
money for water- and fodder-
conservation. The share-farmer
himself is interested only in earn-
ing as much money in as little
time as possible. He is not
interested in spending his money
on improvements to someone
else’s farm. Mostly he is trying
to get enough money to buy his
own farm.
During the recent dry-spell on
the North Coast very few non-
farming owners were willing to
contribute money towards the
cost of feeding starving stock,
and many share-farmers were
equally reluctant. Many took
advantage of railway concession-
freight for fodder, others
borrowed from the Rural Bank
through their co-operatives for
the same purpose. Governments
which lean over backwards to
give these concessions don't
encourage conservation.
Another evil of the share-
farming system is the reluctance
of many share-farmers to divert
a portion of their time from
direct profit-making to work on
weed- and rabbit-prevention.
There have been several
instances where an owner-farmer
clears out weeds and vermin so
that his property may be in peak-
production order, while a
neighboring share-farmer does
nothing. The result is that the
owner-farmer spends more time
fighting weed-encroachment from
the neighboring neglected farm.
Those who urge wider use of
irrigation overlook the fact that
it x.s already fairly widely prac-
tised, and during drought exces-
sive demands of irrigation reduce
the supply of water all round.
Excessive use of irrigation
recently resulted in a waterless
day—the temperature was 105
degrees—for Kyogle, irrigation
having caused the water-level in
the river to drop below the level
of the inlet-valve for the town
pumps. The valve had to be
relocated in a deeper well before
the supply was restored.
Stopping Mastitis
“Oxo”: Promising results
have been obtained on the
Darling Downs in treatment of
mastitis with aureomycin. Tay-
lors Elliotts state that most
stubborn and hopeless cases
have responded to this new anti-
biotic, which is regarded as a
revolutionary phase in dairy-
industry progress.
The stuff is used as an udder-
infusion from a specially pre-
pared tube, and is known as
aureomycin crystalline oint-
ment. It is regarded by many
investigators as the most prom-
ising antibiotic yet discovered. It
exerts a powerful bacteriostatic
action on a large number of
strains of bacteria, and is effec-
tive against brucellosis, tula-
remia, rickets and other diseases.
Where penicillin failed, aureo-
mycin is claimed to have proved
most effective; an immediate
kill having been obtained in 90
per cent, of streptococcus cases
and a 70 per cent, cure of
staphylococcus according to
American and local claims.
It is pointed out, however,
that animals which had had re-
peated attacks of mastitis might
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where’s
the B.W.T.C. ?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
Come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
I
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40 % lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM-
CVOVJ*
2
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly .applied—
Writ* to DAVIS GELATINE) G.PO So* ISM.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Bet 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Streamlined
Beauty for YOUR KITCHEN
in old homes or new, enjoy the advantages of a
Wunderlich "Wunderbrite" Stainless Steel Sink now.
Available 4', 4'6", 5' and 6' long, the latter also
with a double bowl.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, Phone MX 2411,
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated leaflet and prices.
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
fds
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages cf sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
-
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can Instal itl
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the . soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
———DISTRIBUTORS: ———
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA;’ Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Eee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS,
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SIMPLEX
1000 watt, 32 volt
HOME LIGHTING SETS
£165
Ample capacity to light the home
and use electric iron, toaster, wash-
ing machine, wireless, radiogram,
etc. Exempt from Sales Tax if for
home lighting or agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Hoad, Newtown,
Sydney. liA 3597.
respond favorably to treatment
and produce saleable milk for
a few weeks or months, but
they might have consider-
able scar tissue in the udder
that had displaced milk-secret-
ing cells and so might easily be-
come reinfected. It might be
desirable to treat and retreat
such cows as long as they were
profitable producers, but it was
wiser to replace them.
The ointment is infused into
the udder after the quarter has
been milked out. The teat and
teat-opening have to be
thoroughly cleaned and the end
of the teat treated with 70 per
cent, alcohol.
Pellet-feeding
“Big Billy”: Pellet-feeding of
poultry, thoroughly tested in
the U.K. and now introduced
to N.Z. on a commercial scale,
has some disadvantages.
While the pellet is appreciated
by poultry, it prevents farmers
from preparing their own
rations, and they are unable to
vary the diet except by provid-
ing meat-meal, or whatever may
be required, in a, separate
hopper.
On the other hand, during the
pullet year, when birds should
be producing heavily, there is
little danger of their consuming
too great a quantity of pellets.
By far the biggest advantage
.is that during the shorter winter
days, when egg-prices are
highest and birds require extra
food to maintain body tempera-
tures, pellets enable the birds
to take in all their requirements
in the shortest possible time.
A big point for pellets is the
ease and pleasantness in dis-
tributing the food. Pellets may
be fed as a morning or even-
ing feed, alternating with grain,
in which case meat-meal in a
separate hopper would be
needed. Pellets may also be
used in place of dry mash.
Where artificial lighting is
used in the winter pellets may
be provided as the extra feed.
Fish-oil may be supplied by
mixing it into a small percentage
of Wheat or other grain which
can then be mixed with the
pellets for trough-feeding.
One serious disadvantage is
that birds can fill their crops in
a short period and have time to
get into mischief, such as turn-
ing their attention to cannibal-
ism or egg-eating.
Chick pellets or crumbs are
satisfactory for chickens in
place of their mash-ration, and
growing pullets may be fed on
growers’ pellets. The change
should be made gradually from
the time the birds reach six or
eight weeks of age.
New Fertiliser
“C.S.”: Anew concentrated
fertiliser, made, from air, phos-
phorus and ammonia, was
described by three scientists to
the American Chemical Society.
The fertiliser, a white, fluffy
powder, contains 97 per cent.
plant nutrients, twice as much
as fertilisers generally used by
farmers. It is designed to be
effective on crops over long
periods because it does not ab-
sorb water from the atmosphere
under certain conditions of
humidity and temperature. It
was developed by scientists of
the Tennessee Valley Authority.
What “Ike” Said ■
“U. 5.1.5.”; When the 't’eas-
dale “wheat crisis” cropped up
there was some reference to
American farm policies, and
since then all sorts of theories
about these have been aired.
Here is the essential extract
from President Eisenhower’s
speech to Congress on January
“Agricultural laws now in
effect successfully accomplished
their war-time purpose of en-
couraging maximum produc-
tion of many crops. Today pro-
duction of these crops at such
levels far exceeds present de-
mands, Yet the laws encourag-
ing such production are still in
effect.
“The storage facilities of the
. Commodity Credit Corporation
bulge with surplus stocks of
dairy-products, wheat, cotton,
corn and certain vegetable-oils ;
and the corporation’s presently
authorised borrowing authority
—six thousand seven hundred
arid fifty million dollars —is
nearly exhausted.
“Some products, priced out of
domestic markets, and others,
priced out of world markets,
have piled up in Government
hands. In a world in which
millions of people are hungry,
destruction of food would, of
course, be unconscionable. Yet
surplus stocks continue to
threaten the market, and in spite
of the acreage-controls author-
ised by present law, surpluses
will continue to accumulate.
“We confront two alterna-
tives. The first is to impose still
greater acreage-reductions for
some crops and apply rigid
Federal controls over the use of
the diverted acres. These will
regiment the production of every
basic agricultural crop and
place every producer of those
crops under the domination and
control of the Federal Govern-
ment in Washington. This
alternative is contrary to the
fundamental interests of not
only the farmer but of the
nation as a. whole. Nor is it a
real solution to the problem
facing us. #
“The second alternative is to
permit the market price for
these agricultural products
gradually to have a greater in-
fluence on the planning of pro-
duction by farmers, while con-
tinuing the assistance of the
Government. This is the sound
approach. To make it effective,
surpluses existing when the new
programme begins must be in-
sulated from the normal chan-
nels of trade for special uses.
These uses would include school-
lunch programmes, disaster-
relief, emergency assistance to
foreign friends and, of particu-
lar importance, the stockpiling
of reserves for a national emerg-
ency.
“Building on the agricultural
laws of 1948 and 1949, we
should establish a price-support
programme with enough flexi-
bility to attract the production
of needed supplies of essential
commodities and to stimulate
the consumption of those com-
modities that, are flooding
American markets. Transition
to modernised parity must be
accomplished gradually. In no
case should there be an abrupt
downward change in the dollar
level or in the percentage level
of price supports.”
Bulk Wheat
“Ann”: New South Wales lags
behind Victoria and West Aus-
tralia in bulk-handling of wheat.
While a large proportion of the
N.S.W. crop is still hauled in
bags, more than 90 per cent, of
Victorian wheat is delivered to
silos in bulk-trucks. Two
terminal storage-sheds at Murtoa,
for instance, take 9,000,000
bushels. While farm-trucks dis-
charge into them at one end rail-
trucks discharge into them at the
other end. Up to 540 tons per
hour can be received. All W.A.
wheat is bulk-handled in an
elaborate system of bins, bulk-
heads and silos.
By contrast, N.S.W, wheat is
almost wholly carted in motor-
lorries not fitted for bulk-
handling, while in some districts
horse-drawn vehicles are still
used. The outmoded method
involves unnecessary labor, loss
of time, the fight for and the
expense of bags, plus mice and
weather risks. #
Hints For the Farm
“Billjim”: Larger and better
fruit and less disease result from
thinning of pip- and stone-fruit
trees. For apples arid pears
not much more than three fruits
per cluster, one or two for
preference.
“Sundowner”: A farm-horse's
supplementary feeding amounts
to about five tons of hay a year.
Dairy standards call for about
li tons of meadow-hay or the
equivalent per cow each year.
For the breeding ewe and 'lamb
requirements vary from year to
year, but a safe amount is 3cwt.
of hay or its equivalent.
, “C.A.A.”: Mixed fertilisers
such as super., .potash and
ammonia should be used
promptly as the affinity of the
added salts for water causes
deterioration in storage. Damp-
ness or poor ventilation of the
fertiliser-store wiU aggravate the
trouble.
“Arn”: Young poultry
should be treated now to guard
against round-worm. When
fowls are 10 weeks old give a
dose of c.cs. of carb. tet. An
effective dose is 1 c.c. of worm-
capsule. Where handling of
individual birds is not practic-
able some control can be
achieved by feeding a worm-
powder in the mash.
“Silen”: When a screw pulls
loose try filling the hole with
steel-wool, using a match to poke
it in. The steel-wool acts as
packing and gathers round the
thread Of the screw.
“Konanda”: When ducklings
fall on their backs and flap
feebly before dying, it could be
sunstroke. Shade should be open
to them at all times. Boxes will
do if nothing more elaborate is
available. Keep sand in the
bottom of all shelters and pens.
“Baroona”: Gladioli planted
in summer will bloom when
there is no violent heat to spoil
the flowers. Glads are so easily
grown and demand so little that
they can be placed among the
best of flowers for the grower
who can’t give gardening much
time. Planted in well-drained
sand without manure, they will
grow untended except for water-
ing.
“Ann”: When making a post-
mortem on a fowl, any organ
which looks wrong as compared
with that of a healthy fowl must-
be noted. Use smaU scissors
when opening the intestines.
Make a minute examination for
tapeworms, which cling very
closely to the intestinal walls.
If in doubt submit diseased or
suspect organs and any other
information to a vet,
“A.M;N.”; After oiling anew
axe-handle leave it in the sun for
a few days to allow the oil to
penetrate better and the timber
to season a little. Then put it
in the axe.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
It begins to look as though the seasonal history of 1895
may be incorporated into the present cyclical make-up of
this season. In that case further coastal rains are likely, and
the continent’s east coast would get heavy rains, though it
is not yet certain. This, however, would not affect the
prospects of the near future, as the cycle of 1895 shows a
long dry winter and an uncertain spring in all but the
southern littoral.
Again, cyclically, it seems that when the components
agree completely, then the reproduction is uncannily correct
and in accordance with them as to date and nature, all
affected by factors such as weak sunspots, which are unpre-
dictable.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Fellow-Australians
The Immigration Department at Can-
berra has stated that the rate at which
New Australians are announcing their
intention of becoming naturalised has.
gone up by 500 p.c. in the last four years.
The department attributed the increase
to “the increased,, publicity for naturalisa-
tion appearing in departmental publica-
tions, the co-operation of Press and
radio, and the work of the Good Neigh-
bor Movement.” l| also said that impetus
had come from tho new style of naturali-
sation ceremonies, which in jjpost States
were now a civil instead of a police-court
function —“warmth and informality have
replaced coldness and austerity in the
conferring of naturalisation certificates.”
It seems to me, however, that these
new arrivals, who by their very presence
offer some proof of pioneering-spirit,
would have been less impressed by
“publicity in departmental publications”
than by the evidence of better conditions
and prospects in their new country than
in their old, and by constant proof that
Europe’s troubles are still far from
solution. I,
It’s good to know that a naturalisa-
tion certificate is now presented as some-
thing worth while and no longer handed
out over the same bench .and in the same
manner as “£5 or seven days,” but I
reckon the real impelling motive is that
Australia, in spite of some pests in
paddocks and politics, is a good place to
live, a fine place for bringing-up sturdy
and independent children and a land
where investment of hard work will yield
dividends in a few years far greater than
in any country on either side of the Iron
Curtain.
Most “old Australians” believe the
same? thing. But I know a few who
might think a lot more of this country
if they had to spend a couple of yeaVs
in Europe.— ln (the ACT (A.C.T.).
Petrol-tax
Millions of gallons of aviation-spu if
are used each year by aircraft, and tax-
revenue gathered thereon is used for air-
field - construction and -maintenance.
Since air-services are well on the way to
becoming just as important as road-
services, road-users are hammering at a
stone-wall in urging that all the petrol-
tax be spent on roads and bridges.
This tax was introduced as a revenue-
impost in the early years of Federation,
not “in 1925 or thereabouts” (B. 6/1/’54).
In 1926 Earle Page implemented the
Federal Aid Roads agreement between
the Commonwealth and States, and
revenue from 3d.-a-gallon impost on’
petrol was paid to the States for roads.
In the 23 years to 1949, £69,300,000 had
been distributed to the States.
In the. last four years the Menzies-
Fadden Government has allocated
£67,000,000 to the States. That increase
is so substantial that the present Com-
monwealth ‘Government can hardly be
accused of starving the roads of funds.
—K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Queensland Roads
“C.L.’s” defence of the Queensland
Main Roads Commission (B. 30/12/’53)
is as damning as “D.J.K.’s” criticism
(B. 16/12/’53). To achieve a total of
1479 miles of road “completed,” “CL.”
includes 305 miles of resheeting, yhich
must have been done on road-mileage
accounted in previous years as “com-
pleted,” and probably part of the 419
miles “upgraded” has been similarly
accounted.
“Upgrading” in these parts often con-
sists of breaking the natural surface of
the road with a horizontal grader-blade
and pushing the material to both sides
to make the road a box-drain for water
from the first downpour. Not enough i
time is given to making the necessary'
run-off drains, even when any are made,
and no crown is formed on the centre of
the road. A heavy downpour converts
the sloping portions into gullies and the
low-lying parts into pools.
As to the 832 miles of “new construc-
tion under construction,” the burning
question is when are they likely to be
completed? There are roads started 25
years ago and shown on the maps as
State-highways, but not trafficable for
100 miles from the starting-point.
The maintenance figures quoted show
the hangover from the war-time reason-
ing of “cost no object.” It must redden
some ears to know that, in 1952-53,
“efficient control” reduced maintenance
expenditure by £260,000, When such
control further reduces costs without
decreasing results, then there may be a
general demand for the Roads Commis-
sion to receive a larger quota of the
petrol-tax. Until then the money may
as well serve to lessen our liabilities in
other directions.
Concentration on a few roads and
highways and the finishing of them
would end the grasshopping of staff,
labor and plant from one end of a dis-
trict to the other. It might also do some-
thing about formed or partly-formed
roads ending in the bush and rapidly
reverting to a worse trafficable condition
than ever. —Ex. (Q.).
“Illiterate” Authors
While having no particular opinion in
the Alexander Harris argument, I can-
not accept Colin Roderick’s inference
(B. 20/1/’54) that, because a certain
Alexander Harris could neither read nor
write, he is unlikely to have produced
four or five books. What Mr, Roderick
says is that illiteracy makes authorship
“rather difficult,” a statement true
enough in recent times but untrue of
many of the world’s stories and epics,
composed by unlettered genius to be
heard—not read. the classical
Welsh bards nor the contemporary
Arab-bazaar storytellers, to give two
examples, wrote down their works them-
selves.
Neither is the inability (or disinclina-
tion) to write on a page a barrier to
determined authors in later times. There
was Milton—-an obvious example. Shaw
Neilson dictated many of . his poems,
Edgar Wallace spoke his novels to a
shorthand-writer, and countless modern
authors use a dictaphone, and two yarn-
spinners of enduring literary quality;
James Stephens and Algernon Black-
wood, both used their gifts for extempore
tale-telling to win enormous radio
audiences in Ireland and England
respectively. ,
I know of at least two N. S. Wales
authors who have published and are pro-
“ What y' going crook about? The Royal procession passes this way.”
ducing books although, because of physi-
cal handicap, they cannot use their hands
for the act of writing.
“Rather difficult” is by no means
synonymous with “impossible,” and
never has been.—Miss (N'.S.W.).
■—
Legal Reform
Uniform laws free from anomalies are
probably impossible; they may not even
be desirable. But what stops politicians
from doing anything to replace out-
moded or unworkable legislation when
the issue is not even contentious?
In most States, for instance, it is im-
possible to convict a person for stealing
-a motor-car. The so-called “joy-rider”
can wreck a thousand-pound car, be
charged with nothing more than illegal
use and receive a penalty of perhaps a
few months’ imprisonment if an habitual
offender.
Yet an accountant who walks off with
£lOOO of his boss’s funds is in for three
years unless he gets hold of a pretty
smart lawyer. It’s not much good plead-
ing that he intended to give it back when
he backed a winner, though his intentions
of doing so were probably a lot stronger
than any idea a joy-rider might have
about returning the car.
Traffic Acts, Sunday-observance Acts
and others contain a lot of nonsense
which should be deleted. And when will
we "get politicians prepared to show a hit
of courage and intelligence in dealing
with divorce and liquor laws? — Tonsi
(Tas.).
_ _ „ A , .
Melbourne Athirst
When the first heatwave struck Mel-
bourne the Board of Works, which is
also the Water Board and the author of
its master-plan for a future Melbourne,
suddenly found itself the possessor of a
vast quantity of water sufficient for twice
the population, while large areas of
Melbourne hadn’t any.
The city was as near a complete
drought as Burke and Wills on their ex-
ploring expedition, and people were
running round to neighbors with buckets
merely for drinking-water, while a hos-
pital with 200 babies sent urgent appeals
over the air for people to take the infants
into their houses to assuage their thirst
and avoid the risk of an outbreak of
gastro-enteritis. A reservoir which serves
Braybrook was completely empty, and
the board had to send watercarts out, as
in the days of Batman.
The official explanation was that,,
while the board had spent millions in the
post-wdr years on enormous schemes of
water-cOnservation, only a meagre
amount had been spent on pipes to bring
. the moisture to the city. When the heat
struck at the weekend householders
simultaneously turned on their sprinklers
in 100,000 gardens, and this sudden de-
mand being more than the mains and
pumping-stations could cope with no-
body got any water after a few hours,
It isn’t difficult to imagine what might
happen when the great wen grows to the
anticipated city of 2,000,000.
Chairman Jessop blamed the crisis
on to the fact that Melbourne’s citizens
are the world’s most garden-minded. So
they may be, though that is doubtful, but
some blame is attachable to the master-
planners for allowing these garden-lovers
to add to the difficulties of Melbourne’s
sprawl by scattering their gardens over
an area large enough to accommodate
five times the present population, while
thousands of vacant acres close to the
city are available for building. Some
garden-lover builds himself a house away
in the foothills, and the board dutifully
follows him up with mains and water-
pipes, of which there is a shortage,
Multiply that ridiculous situation by a
few thousands and you get a sufficient
explanation of the complete impotence
of k°ard to catch up with the situa-
A panacea which could be applied
immediately would be for the board to
put a complete ban on sprinklers for the
summer, lifting it every few days by
proclamation at its own discretion. Mel-
bourne gardeners may be garden-minded,
but they don’t know much about plants,
generally speaking. They give them, not
too little, but too much water. If garden-
lovers were allowed to use their sprink-
lers once or twice a week only their
gardens would look better, there would be
an enormous saving of water and every-
body would get enough of it.
The long-range plan should include
the checking of the city’s sprawl before
eventual disaster overtakes it. If it had
been good bushfire weather on the criti-
cal weekend whole suburbs would prob-
ably have been wiped out, as they were
in 1939.—F. S. (Vic.).
n ~c .
lhe Leaving Certificate
Of course highly intelligent children
do well in the Leaving (B. 20/1/’54).
They would probably do even better
under a more rational system, while the
rest would have a sound foundation on
which to build and the chance to find out
where their real interests lay.
At the same time, a great many unin-
telligent children at present pass the
Leaving, judging by what I have seen
of papers produced by first-year uni-
versity students. I’ve also had candi-
dates pass the Leaving in my own sub-
ject, when, in my opinion, they were
quite unfit to be studying the subject at
all. Their grasp of their own language
was negligible and their ability to cope
with a foreign language less than
negligible.
An examination in itself is no guaran-
tee whatever of consistent standards;
there is abundant evidence both here and
abroad to support this,
I agree that abolition of the Inter-
mediate under the present system has
been a retrograde step, but that is only
because the system replacing it has
proved quite unsatisfactory. There is no
reason, except human laziness, why a
satisfactory system should not be found
or why a school-certificate drawn up by
competent people should not give an
adequate picture of every child s capa-
bilities. .
Incidentally, how does a Leavmg Cer-
tificate show whether a child is a 50-per-
center or an 80-per-center? A’s and fis
mean different things in different years,
If a B starts at 49 per cent, and an A
at 75 per cent., how do you rate 74 per
cent, in comparison to both. Parent
teacher (N.S.W.).


the flags appeared and all the
place looked gay. After dinner
we went into the gardens and
heard a roar of cheers and
shouts from Piccadilly. We
longed to go out, but it was
impossible. Till one went to
sleep there was a continual roar,
and, waking some time after, I
could hear the same.
Sunday ; Madame [the
Duchess], the Princesses, Eva
and I drove to Kew, which was
quite beautiful, and though there
were thousands of people you
could hardly say you were
crowded, but personally I was
bored and think that we all
were.
Monday: I was free all day,
and on a truly hot morning
went to see the Chestertons and
the Browns, then met Mabel
[her friend] after lunch and went
first for a prowl through West-
minster Hall and then to Guild-
hall to the picture exhibition,
where I saw again, after many
years, H. Hunt’s “Shadow of
the Cross” and thought it in
ways quite beautiful. There
were many pictures that I par-
ticularly admired Abbey’s
“Lear and Cordelia” notably,
and an excellent portrait of
Kipling.
Thursday: The Princesses
and I went to see experiments by
Le Couteur at the Photographic
Association; wonderful Ront-
gen Rays and other things. This
afternoon to South Kensington
Geological Museum. This even-
ing I dined at the Chestertons’
and heartily enjoyed it.
Monday : Went with the
Princesses to Royal Academy.
In the afternoon to Tate Gal-
lery, and then the little Yorks,
all four, came to tea and we
had an unpleasant experience of
being chased by an angry black
swan. They are very delight-
ful little children. [The “little
Yorks” were in later years
Edward VIII, George VI, the
Duke of Gloucester and the
Princess Royal.]
Wednesday: We went to
Westminster Abbey—specially
to the Henry Seventh Chapel
and the King’s Shrine. It was
very nice to go with these
children, and we were let in
alone and very quietly and
easily.
Later [no date or day given
for this entry]; That evening
we parted with Eva and started
for Ireland, leaving Euston at
6.30 and arriving at Castle
Blayney about eight the next
morning. At Castle Blayney we
were met by the Duke and Cap-
tain McNeill and drove here—
it is quite close.
This is quite a lovely place,
with a great lake 900 acres and
nine miles round, with many
islands in it, wooded and beauti-
ful. There is an ancient burial-
place on the shore and a ruin
and a cave and subterranean
passage used by the Danes, but
closed at present. Somewhere
near here uncovered human
bones were found —and near the
church —this is considered here
a sign of bad luck. The place
belongs to Lord F. Hope, who
married May , and the old
lady at one of the lodges said
of her: “She was a rattler, but
she was cheery. Believe what
I say —she made me four beauti-
ful shawls! ”
This is a little town—stone
houses, wide stony roads. The
people look shabby and poor ;
their sayings are funny. The
young man rowing the boat said
“The fish were so plentiful they
got on the hook before you could
take them off.” A man was
showing us the way. Princess
Daisy asked if the cow would
dislike the dogs: “The cow’ll
not say a ha’p’orth to ye.” There
is an English, R.C., Presbyterian
and Baptists’ Church here and
one or two almshouses. The
mountains in the distance are
lovely.
June 28: I had a cycle ride
in the morning, and the most
amusing conversation with Mrs.
Smith at the gate. She could
hardly realise that the Duke,
who had spoken to her, was
really the Queen’s son. She said
she “couldn’t get the hang of
them at ail. I can talk to you
and to Lord Francis and his
lady—but I never could get the
hang o’ them.” However, in
the evening I and Princess Daisy
went through the gate and had
a talk with her and she made
her curtsies and did it very well.
Later [no dates or days given
for these remaining entries];
Next day we all had a drive in
the car —Madame, the Prin-
cesses and myself. After tea
Princess Daisy and I cycled and
went in to see a quarry that was
shut in with a little gate and
tied-up and fitted with a large
stone. An old, rather lame, very
dirty but kind old lady let us
in and out, and her little pink
pig ran after us like a dog. She
said: “Mind he doesn’t grab
your skirt in fun.” I felt very
sorry for the little cottage with
so much damp around..
The day before Princess Daise
and I had gone down into a
quarry and a peat-bog, where
we talked to an old man working
bare-legged in the bog. He
looked at us and said “Have you
lately come?” I said, “To the
Castle.” He gripped my hand.
I said, “There is the Princess.”
He wrung her hand and spoke
in the most charming way.
Everywhere we see the poor
little whitewashed cottages with
tiny windows and dirty little
yards in front; chickens crowd-
ing the door; pigs, cows, goats
all about, and out of these come
the dirtiest, most ragged people
with their courteous manners
and pretty speeches of welcome.
“Welcome to the road,” says
one man to another. “Welcome
to the Lough,” says one to
Prince Arthur. “You’re wel-
come,” said the bright-eyed boy,
to whom I gave a douceur
after he had held the pony.
They are charmed to see the
Princesses, and say all kinds of
nice things whep they recognise
them. I have been asked I
were their “mother,” “the
Duke’s daughter,” “the ser-
vant.” We drove to Monaghan, a
quiet little grey-stone town with
a “diamond,” which appears
to be the name for a market-
place here. Just outside the
town is a quite beautiful R.C.
cathedral, with a statue of its
Saint looking down upon the
town most benignly.
We have had a day in Dublin
and have driven round here to
many little towns and villages.
I like it all, but my heart quite
aches for the poverty of the
people.
On Sunday the R.C. priest
came to tea —gentle and low-
voiced and looking old. Next
day Father Vaughan, the Car-
dinal’s brother and a great
preacher—he was a Jesuit de-
signed for society; quite the
society ecclesiastic —immensely
amusing, a raconteur, who
brought out one story after
another and such good stories;
in Irish or broken French
equally good.
One story was of a French
priest, speaking very imperfect
English, who wanted to preach
in England “on my leetle
church in Brittany.” So he did,
and his text was “The devil is as
a roaring lion.” He began:
“We will divide our subject
into three parts —first, Who ye
devil he is? Why ye devil ’e
roar, and Where ye devil ’e go
out?” By this time he found his
congregation laughing and
thought them flippant.
Great interest has been found
here in taking presents to the
poor people of the fish caught
in the lake and the numerous
rabbits sent by Prince Arthur.
No doubt they are truly wel-
come to these poor people, and
the Princesses receive the kindest
welcome,' thanks and blessings.
One old lady at the lodge, look-
ing at them, said “There’s good-
ness in them,” and everywhere
they are met with greatest
courtesy.
One day the Princesses and
I went to sketch one of the
poorest houses, and the owner,
Mrs. Byrne, came out. Prin-
cess Margaret took her photo-
graph, and she held the pony
while we drew. Old Mrs. Toole
came out and there were two
men and they just stood and
commented all the time, while
little Pete drew nearer and
nearer till he could venture to
touch Princess Patsy’s paint-
box. The picture of the house
which Princess Daisy showed
them, “with a chimney,” seemed
to impress them very much.
Yesterday we went into one
cottage—-it was not so repel-
lent as I had expected, but,
still, what a place to have to live
in and “fight one’s sins in” and
die in! The floor was stone,
but all broken and uneven, the
walls whitewash, the big fire-
place with peat slowly burning
and a large saucepan of cabbage
on it.
Sure, it's a fine place...
Like Old Erin
By JOHN GARDNER
WE were not in Killarney
.. . just back in old
Kapunda, 50 miles from
Adelaide.
A man in farm clothes with
a twisted handkerchief around
his neck shook hands, and
showed me into the cottage
parlor. From the window you
could see above the garden-wall
rich crops, cows and an earth-
road running over low green
hills.
On the opened piano were
“Christmas in Killarney,” “Phil
the Fluter’s Ball” and “Was
Your Mother Born in Ireland?”
Above the open fireplace was an
old print of kilted, bloodied
warriors being tended after a
battle by black-haired, shawled
colleens.
The man with a bit of a
brogue, who said “ ’twas” and
“sure,” was going blind; he
gladdened at the unexpected
revisit of a former neighbor.
The whisky came out and the
farmer’s wife played the piano
and sang the old-timers. There
was cooking in the kitchen, and
they brought in a pot of tea and
warm scones.
Sure, the nuns up on the hill
must have heard the singing and
playing! And the animated talk
of the “wakes” and weddings and
jiggin’ and dancin’. And in the
farms and cottages around there
were Kildeas, Kerins, Duffs,
O’Briens, McGuires, Walshes and
Whites, Hansberrys, Higginses,
Heffernans and O’Neills. Fine
people they are, too.
Last St. Patrick’s Day? Man,
they came from miles around by
trap, train and motor-car. It
was the biggest St. Pat.’s this side
of the border. Teams of dancers
and singers, and sheaf-tossers and
runners and fine speechmakers.
And some of the grandest horse-
flesh you’d find anywhere. And
the horsemen! ...
Kapunda is to many Aus-
tralian Irishmen what S.A.’s
Barossa Valley and .Hahndorf
are to the Germans and the cosy
hills hamlets above Adelaide are
to those who know England.
One-hundred-and-ten years old,
population 1700, Kapunda from
1843 to 1877, when they dug £1 -
million-worth of copper from
the now-derelict mines fringing
the town, was. a hotchpotch of
men and ideas. It has come out
of all that with the character put
on it by farmers, miners and
migrants who stayed, who
resisted the rush to the diggings
and the exodus from the mines.
There is progress in the town-
ship. The foundry and flour-
mill are going hard ; the State
Housing Trust is building on
the outskirts. 'But there is
charm in the unchanging
Kapunda: in the unspoilt town
homes and farms, the stories
they tell, the touch of Irish
brogue so often found in native
Kapunda-ites, and in the
cushioned sofa in the kitchen
you’ll find in most places, the
pump at the back-door and the
deep interest in local history.
They have pulled down the
historic horse-sale yards behind
the North Kapunda Hotel,
always linked by bushmen and
horse-buyers with the names of
Kidman, Coles and Rasheed,
and with the vast mobs of bush
horses sold to the Indian Army.
The sales often lasted a fort-
night.
We sat in a farmhouse built
by a young Irishman for himself
and his bride 60 years ago. They
had 10 children (three of them
now farm thereabouts). We
were shown the shiny £l5OO car
in the stable. The land as far
as you could see belonged to
them or their kin.
A few miles along another
farm had been left ter them.
That farmhouse was bigger and
better than theirs. “But we’ll not
be moving,” said the Irishman’s
daughter. “We’ve got used to
this home.”
We sat on the sofa or on the
big wooden chairs around the
table beneath the ham-hooks in
the ceiling of the big kitchen,
The iron fountain boiled on
the wood-stove. There were
farm-made butter, cream, meat,
cakes and scones.
The warm, human character
of this country home hadn’t
changed much; its occupants
hadn’t, either. Our host pressed
our hand as we got up. “You’ll
want something to read along-
side the fire tonight,” she said.
“Take this. Some of the tales
remind us of life here when Dad
was alive.”
And off we went with an old
and thumbed copy of The Boree
Log.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 263
Across
I—’Where to get the fair sob I sing
when coming into form. (13)
8 — Aries follows the European unit
of work for wire. (10)
9 All in the cone at one time. (4)
11 — Whose do the French bear? (4)
12 — They guide the slimmer Parlia-
mentary plans when Diana is
to etch a faculty. (4, 6)
14 — A little bird to ring an influential
Yugoslav character in a Mozart
opera noted for his “clemenza.’’
(4)
15 — Negro calf gets the bird. (9)
18 —It causes many a stamp to stick
eucalyptus on the tongue. (3-6)
21 —Anguillidas. (4)
23 —Nothing can soak through such
a little devil before the Queen
has five notes that are not to my
credit. (10)
25 —It helps you to remember the
moustache on me. (4)
27 — Understand this is a minor
branch. (4)
28 — Diana to box a long time, but
slings off when her old man
blows his top. (10)
29 —A fancy river recorded by Proust,
for instance. (7-6)
Down
1— Jersey holds everything imma-
ture with 100 to let. (6)
2 Betty Muir is made of metal. (9)
3 Kicked in the direction of the
editor. (4)
4 Writing in the skipper’s book
while working in a lumber-camp.
(7)
s__it is even more unfitting to cut
the painter about. (7)
6 -The negro in hiding is a fellow
for whom the game is up. (5)
7 Lied on the level during a church
service. (8)
10—Hen-birds’ bundles of grain. (7)
13 —Pink elephants are characteristic
of these. (7)
16— Pass over Rugby, pal. (9)
17— This makes Agnes brood, though
scintillating. (1-7)
19 — Badgering Crosby to swallow
one with it. (7)
20— The head may be toasted by the
legislator in the salt-stand. (7)
22—The Post Office’s total tree-
dweller. (6) *
24 —Square-cut Ruby might be ex-
pected to field at this position
with a corporation to hold in.
26—Pluckiness or poultry - food?
King George has it. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 2,62


f-r
V
'Sf
lJ
... *
v:
/
£
m
m
•m
m
m
$
" ■ ■
U'A*
W
-With
m
BATTERIES
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with improved plates and separators designed to Incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED, Birmingham Street, Alexandria. N.S.W.
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY:—
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
St.. Alexandria.
Smith Sons & Rees Limited. 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney.
Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St.,
Albury.
Queensland:
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty„ 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Co., Mackay.
Victoria:
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia;
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., ! 5 Ac
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag, 158 Collins St., Hobart;
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Dai
n
YOU THINK BATTERIES THINK CENTURY
