

THE HOUSE
dfs
OF SEPPELT
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGN
The Bulletin
ISSUES IN THE PETROV CASE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3872
Wednesday, April 28, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ANCIENT EGYPT
IN MODERN LONDON,
THE DURABLE “NEEDLE”
THE oldest monument in Britain rises majes-
tically from the water’s edge on the
Thames Embankment near Waterloo Bridge in
London. Its name is Cleopatra’s Needle and
it has been in 'existence for over three thousand
years. This great Egyptian obelisk was one
of two erected about the year 1475 b.c. by
Thothmes III, many centuries before Cleopatra’s
time. It then stood with its companion in front
of the Temple of the Sun in the city of On,
mentioned in the Bible where Moses was found
in the bulrushes; the city which was later
renamed Heliopolis.
When the seat of Government was moved to
Alexandria, the two obelisks were taken there
by Augustus and set up outside Cleopatra s
Palace. This removal took place at the begin-
ning of the Roman dynasty, and nearly eight
years after the death of Cleopatra. The
Egyptians probably wished to perpetuate her
memory as each column, capped with gold, was
known even at that time as Cleopatra’s Needle.
To-day the age-blackened granite bears the
marks of the desert sandstorms but the hun-
dreds of hieroglyphics on its four sides can
still be seen. The middle of the shaft bears a
carved inscription by Thothmes III, and two
centuries later Rameses II added inscriptions ot
his own on either side of the existing ones,
glorifying his own reign and it is here that the
phrase ‘King of Kings’ is believed to be used
for the first time.
In 1819 Cleopatra's Needle was presented to
Britain by Mehemet Ali, Viceroy of Egypt, but
it did not arrive in London until sixty years
later. The expensive task of its removal was a
major engineering problem as the monument
weighs 166 tons and is 70 feet in height. A
special casing to form a sea-going craft was
built in London and re-assembled on the shores
of the Mediterranean. While the cylinder con-
taining the obelisk was being towed to Britain
it met a storm in the Bay of Biscay and the
captain of the tug cast the unwieldy craft adrift.
Later it was found and taken in tow again but
only after six seamen had lost their lives.
Cleopatra’s Needle finally arrived in the
Thames in January, 1878, and was erected on
its pedestal in its present location. Under its
foundation are preserved a Bible, a railway
guide, a newspaper and some British coins of
the period. The monument bears the scars of
the First World War when an enemy bomb
fell nearby.
The companion obelisk now stands in Central
Park, New York.


The Red Page
STONE AND DYSON
An urge to read the works of two Aus-
tralian writers long out of print drove me
to borrow them from a friend. They are
Louis Stone’s Jonah and Ted Dyson’s
Fact’ry ’Ands, and his Below and On
Top mining stories.
I read them again with a vastly
refreshed pleasure, and now that Aus-
tralians really read books by Australian
writers there must be a considerable
public for them.
Up to date, Australia has produced
very little prose that will live. When one
has listed the writings of Lawson, Tom
Collins, Steele Rudd, Louis Stone and
Brian James, optimism on that scor
falters for sustenance. The work of thes
writers is not merely the exercise of
literary faculty but springs direct from
the life of the people, as that has bee
lived at first-hand by the writers.
Such material, extracted from th
people of any country, becomes the sub
stance and spirit of a national conscious
ness. Without that consciousness,
country has nothing to contribute to tha
world-consciousness which we vaguel
label “civilisation.” And this process
something quite apart from the produc
tion of works which spring from what
ever may be the literary movement
the moment, and which may have enter
tainraent-value as such but are doomed t
extinction. A glance at a publisher’s lis ;
of the bestsellers of a past generation wi
make that truth painfully apparent.
The queer thing is that only work
which are the exclusive product of th
country in which they are written becom
contents of world-consciousness. Eng
land is encompassed in the works o ;
Dickens, France in those of Balzac, anc
America in those of Sinclair Lewis, anc,
the works of those writers have been
absorbed into the mass-consciousness o '
every country that can lay a claim to
having a national culture. The whole
world of the East lies outside thi
exchange between art and life. Morally
it is a worthless section of the earth, fo
it contributes nothing to a universa
consciousness.
So far, the only two writers who have
penetrated largely into the Australiai
national ego are Lawson and Steele Rudd
Tom Collins is slowly percolating into it
in spite of his own efforts to remain out
side by appealing to academic quid
nunkery with his whimsical speculations
on sociology, politics and misty meta
physics. Dyson and Stone have not ye
had a chance to contribute their works
to this transference of art to life, anc
Brian James is still with us, and only
small proportion of his work has been
printed—mainly in The Bulletin. His
writing undoubtedly contains that vital
essence which endures: the common life
of a people seen with a penetrating per-
ception of their immemorial passions and
aspirations and the procedure by which
they keep their place in the struggle for
existence.
In this relation of flesh to spirit it is
necessary to leave out that remarkable
work The Pea Pickers by Eve Langley ;
for that, like such a novel as Wuthering
Heights, is an explosive revelation in
self-expression touched with fantasy, and
lies outside the ordinary life of its people
and period.
Lawson, Tom Collins and Steele Rudd
have given us the presentation of that life
in the smaller bush townships and the
backblocks peopled by drovers, shearers,
bullockies, swagmen, bushworkers, squat-
ters and cocky-farmers. Stone has given
us the Sydney of his era, its harbor, city
streets and the denizens of its slums. An
amazing feat, to have packed so much
of a city into the short space of a novel.
It remained for Ted Dyson to add an-
other dominant figure to our national
background, that of the miner. To that
he has added a brilliant study of factory-
workers in the city of Melbourne.
Much of the best literature springs from
a lack of literary consciousness, and
Below and On Top is from that genesis.
It was written shortly after Dyson had
left the life of a working miner to make a
living as a writer. Before arriving at that,
he had worked in a paper-bag-making
factory, which gave him his material for
Fact’ry 'Ands.
As is inevitable with a young writer,
some of the stories in Below and On Top
are of unequal quality. If I were making
a selection, I would pass the “Dick
Haddon” boy-stories. They generate, I
suspect, from Tom Sawyer. Boys are
never convincing when they are presented
as playing a dominant part in conflict
with their elders. Huck Finn is a real
boy, very much hurried and flurried and
driven by dominating elders, but Tom
Sawyer, and those lads in Kipling’s
Stalky and Co., are fictions with a dim
substratum of reality. They derive from
the writer’s hero-worship for certain boys
in his schooldays, and the real Stalky,
Major-General Dunsterville, put the right
accent on them when he remarked of
Stalky and Co., “After all, we were only
a lot of potty little schoolboys.”
I would also pass the story of Mr. and
Mrs. Sin Fat, good as it is so far as it
presents the progress of a skinny, half-
starved Chow arriving in Australia to
become a fat and opulent citizen of
Chinatown by such devious enterprises as
fan-tan gambling, opium-dens, and slum
prostitution. But its finality is pure melo-
drama, and the whole story derives from
the hatred of all Australians in the mining
era for Chinamen. It still lingered on in
the days of my nonage in the established
tradition of pelting Chows for the thrill
of being chased by them.
The lasting quality of Below and On
Top is in the mining stories, headed by
“The Golden Shanty,” which would be a
classic in whatever country it was written.
“A Sabbath Morn in Waddy” gives us
the Cornish miners who made such a
large proportion of the mining popula-
tion ; an entrancing piece of humor, with
Brothers Best and Tresize praying against
each other in a frenzy of personal spite
and religious mania. In “A Zealot for
Labor” we have the “hatter” miner,
an old man left over from a worked-out
diggings who performs prodigies of in-
dustry in quest of a phantom fortune
which he really does not want; its quest
suffices him:
Humpy Bannon was puny and weazened
and 01d.... He lived in a bark hut, com-
fortless as a mia-mia, on nothing in par-
ticular ; he dressed at work in a worn
shirt, patched extravagantly, and deplor-
able trousers and boots, and he wound
lengths of sugee about his shins. His hat,
a battered old boxer, a gift from a sym-
pathetic selector, had a big hole fore and
aft-driven to extremes, he had run a
handle through it and used it as a ladle
when cradling—and the whole costume was
cemented with clay and grip from the
unspeakable creek.
In this key of precise visualisation his
miners are presented. And the spirit of
the presentation is that tough, unsenti-
mental acceptance of hardship which
permeates all that is best in Australian
writing, and which derives from the
national ego itself. We have it at its best
in Dyson’s “A Visit to Scrubby Gully,”
which is the picture of an outback selec-
tion as good as any Lawson wrote, with
its dolorous selector (who supplied the
mine with wood for props and who “had
a face that had forgotten how to smile,
but remained set in the one wooden
expression of a joyless, passionless indif-
ference to whatever fate could offer
henceforth and forever”), with his
apathetic wife and his horde of dirty
squabbling brats, his hypochondriaca
horse and his cow which insists on sleep-
ing in the lean-to along with the writer
Or again, we have the same spirit;
which derides false sentiment in “An
Incident at the Old Pioneer,” where the
earth caves-in on some old deep-sinkings,
and the manager and a rescue-squad work
all night in a frenzy of sustained exertion
to reach a mate trapped below in one of
the drives, risking their lives to discover
finally that he has comfortably ensconced
himself in quite another drive with a
bottle of rum and is blandly obtuse to
their heroic exertions to save him from
asphyxiation. The sardonic note!
Turning to Fact’ry ’Ands, we find that
Dyson has chosen quite another key for
its stories, one of pure comedy, written
with the sophisticated ease of a long-
practised exercise in writing. All the
characters here are visualised with a
Dickens-like clarity, and all are motivated
by the mentalities defined in that visua-
lisation. Benno the clerk, Mills the
packer, Goudy the town traveller, Ellis
the foreman, the mob of pasters known
as “Spat’s Beauties,” the comps on the
printing-flat, the boss himself, each is
vividly drawn with masterly draughts-
manship in words. This for Benno the
clerk;
A panama-hat, a high, white, turn-over
collar, a. small, gay, mechanical tie, a dark
suit creased to preserve a fictitious air of
newness, tan boots, a clean shave and a
cigarette, all went to the making of Benno.
For the rest, he had a pimply thin, foxy
face, pale with the pajjor that belonged to
Spat’s factory, and his right ear drooped
like a wilted lily. His expression was of
unnatural precocity, and his attitude of
mind that of a small and early humorist.
Sometimes the clerk spent sixpence or nine-
pence or even a shilling on drinks, which
expenditure carried with it the splendid
privilege of extending an airy patronage to
the barmaid; but Benno did not like drink,
and the fine moment came in the gay roll
forth from the bar, with a flourish of hand-
kerchiefs and a fusillade of badinage.
Really, “on his own,” Benno had no vices,
and was of a frugal mind; his Savings Bank
book was tattered and limp, and stained with
long service.
Thus we get the whole of Bennq, and
are primed for the stunning disaster
which overtakes his affair with his “little
boshter.” Then there is Fuzzy Ellis the
foreman ; and all the “Beauties” are set
forth with the same clarity. It was a feat
of meticulous observation in feminine
identity to have created such a diverse
collection of girls and women, and extract
from each some salient revelation of the
feminine ego. Such stories as “A Hot
Day at Spat’s,” wherein nerves ravaged
by the heat succumb to mass-hysteria, and
“A Saturday Night at Spat’s,” wherein
Spotty Cobbit, recently “saved” by the
Salvation Army, secretly tears to ribbons
the flash Saturday frocks of two of the
pasters, because “They was offensive in
the eyes of the Lord,” and with the dolor-
ous outcry (under exposure) of “And
mine’s such rags,” are masterpieces.
The central figure which holds these
stories together is that of Mills, the
packer. Dyson uses him as a Greek
chorus. He has been long in the factory,
he has intimate knowledge of all its
denizens, and he has a sardonic outlook
on humanity in general and women in
particular, even though in a moment of
weakness he falls for his “little silly,” the
c °yly giggling Connie Gleeson, who
departs the factory to become barmaid
in a sixpenny bar, and so is removed for
ever from the packer’s social level of the
front bar where beers are threepence per
schooner. The packer is notable as a
bar-room raconteur and, as such, Dyson
gives him a low-comedy colloquial idiom,
which is very effective when Dyson wishes
to exploit his own flair for humor in a
key of extravagant imagery—on such
occasions as when the firm imports a
paper-bag-making machine which goes
mad and squirts reams of chewed-up bags,
hot paste, printers’ ink, cog-wheels and
machine-parts at the company assembled
by Spat’s to view its inauguration.
I knew Ted Dyson intimately at the
time he wrote Fact’ry ’Ands. He was in
his forties then, short, stocky, with a
muscular figure built up in his days as a
working miner, going slightly bald, with
black, alert eyes and the sharply-aquiline
Dyson nose. His talk was always pointed
by wit, tinctured by humor and acidity.
He had been long established as a free-
lance journalist; and in that profession,
normally distinguished by booze and
impecuniosity, he was a notable exception,
for he did not drink and such was his
industry that he made a considerable
income, which he invested in house pro-
perty, while maintaining the whole Dyson
family till Bill and Ambrose were self-
supporting and the girls had married. He
contributed largely to The Bulletin and
Melbourne “Punch,” and half-a-dozen
other journals, and was never at a loss
for invention at a moment’s notice. I
once passed over to him a number of
illustrations to a small-boy story which I
had discarded as poor stuff, though the
illustrations were still marketable as joke-
blocks. Ted took them to his room, from
which he emerged ten minutes later with
a smart gag attached to each drawing.
A dangerous facility. It made ephemeral
a great deal of the stuff he turned out
in those days, other than Fact’ry ’Ands —
verse, stories and novels along with hack-
work journalism. It was all readable, but
I doubt if it had in it the stuff that en-
dures. I read his novels when they first
appeared, but have forgotten them, and
I rarely forget a work that impresses me
on a first reading.
But I do not think either Lawson or
Dyson could have functioned as novelists;
their metier was the compact form of the
short-story. Lawson boozed and idled
most of his time away and Dyson never
ceased turning out work, but the measure
of their work which survives is about
equal in quantity and quality. It is idle
questioning whether Ted Dyson could
have maintained the quality of his best
work, and I do not think he himself had
any illusions on that score.
Once, when he paid a visit to Sydney,
I brought him and Lou Stone together
over a lunch-table. As a social experiment
it was not a success. Their mental chemi-
cal constituents refused to amalgamate.
Ted, with his acrid wit and impatience at
any equivocality, and Lou, with his slow-
spoken, sententious, and slightly dicta-
torial manner of voicing an opinion, kept
me uneasily trying to maintain a balance
of tolerance between them. The stories of
O. Henry happened to come up for dis-
cussion, and of those Loti remarked, as
voicing a dictum from which there was
no appeal, “Someone should have stood
over him with a stick, and smacked him
hard when he wrote down to the popular-
magazine standard,” at which Ted ex-
ploded exasperation with “Oh, I’m fed
up with that gag about a man deliberately
writing down to the public. A man’s
work is the best he can do, and to hell
with saying he could have done it better.”
A plaster to bad conscience for hack-
work, perhaps. Perhaps not. I don’t think
he was ever given to fantasy-mongerin
about the dignity of letters in this countr
where the only hope of making a livin
in those days as a writer or an artist w
by jam-labels and journalism. No matte
we have his mining stories and his Fact’r
’Anas, and those will endure while
tradition for sound literary values
maintained in this country.
If Ted Dyson had too much facili
in turning out work, Lou Stone had to
little. He was fifteen years over the writin
of Jonah, which began as a short-story
He allowed me to read it, and its Jona
was a thin slab of a larrikin.; a conven
tionalised type. Inspiration for the Jona
of the novel arrived to Lou as a visua
impact, what time he was walking dow
a back-street one evening. Through th
lighted windows of a cobblers shop
saw a cobbler working, and the cobbler
was a hunchback. Lou went home wit
a revisioned concept of the novel flamin
in his mind.
The material of that novel was from
first-hand experience ; he was brought u
in a slum and in youth had worked in
boot-factory, before studying to pass hi
examinations as a schoolteacher. H
once took me to the back-street home o;
his childhood, where I met his father;
big, barrel-chested, rough and tough pro
duct of the British Navy, in which he ha
served as a marine. A strange parent
have fathered the tall, lank, dyspepti
Lou, with his tragically depressed eye
and his fastidiously tormented mind,
tragic figure he remains for me, for h
had not the stuff in him to sustain th
endurance-test of work unrewarded by
money or recognition. He rightly ex
pected both from Jonah and got neither
except from the few readers who recog
nised that in its author this country hac
been given a novelist of rare distinction
One has only to read the opening para
graphs of Jonah to discover that thi
novelist is also a masterly craftsman
the art of prose:
One side of the street glittered like a
brilliant eruption with the light from a row
of shops; the other, lined with houses, was
almost deserted, for the people, drawn like
moths to the glare, crowded and jostled
under the lights.
It was Saturday night, and Waterloo, by
immemorial habit, had flung itself on the
shops, bent on plunder. For an hour past
the stream of people had flowed from the
back-streets into Botany-road, where the
shops stood in shining rows, awaiting the
conflict.
The butcher’s caught the eye with a flare
of color as the light played on the pink
and white flesh of sheep, gutted and
skewered like victims for sacrifice; the red
quarters of beef, hanging like the limbs of
a dismembered Colossus; and the car-
casses of pigs, the unclean beast of the Jews,
pallid as a corpse. The butchers passed in
and out, sweating and greasy, hoarsely cry-
ing the prices as they cut and hacked the
meat. The people crowded about, sniffing
the odor of dead flesh, hungry and brutal
—carnivora seeking their prey.
The story of Jonah —the gutter-bra
hunchback and leader of the “push,’
who, by predatory ruthlessness and finan-
cial cunning becomes a successful business-
man ; his deplorable marriage with the
slum-bred Ada ; his passion for his son,
who has a straight back ; his first awaken-
ing to the mystery of women by that
frozen, calculating female snob, Clara
Grimes, and his crash into reality by dis-
covering the part Clara has had in Ada’s
squalid death"—must be read for its vivid
character-creation and its subtle and
profound psychology. Also the minor
them of Chook and Pinkey, who achieve
an impassioned aspiration by keeping a
greengrocer’s shop.
All that is sustained by the brilliant
visualisation of the background. There
is not a scene, however slight, essential
to the passage of an event, which has not
been studied on the spot with meticulous
attention to the essentials which bring it
vividly before the reader’s eyes. I once
asked Stone, in reference to that remark-
able piece of landscape-painting in words,
the subset in Chapter 8, “Did you memo-
rise it, or is it a reconstructed sunset”?
Said Stone, “I took it down on the spot.
I was with ray wife, and I shoved a pencil
and paper at her and said, ‘Here, quick,
take this down while I watch it.’ If I’d
taken my eyes off it I would have lost
it.”
I will not discuss his second novel,
Betty Wayside. Disheartened by lack
of response to Jonah and its ruthless
rejection of false sentiment he made con-
cessions to that same sentiment in Betty
Wayside. In short, he succumbed to the
worst virus that may infect a novelist —
heroine-worship. The minor characters
in that novel are good, but the core of
the novel has no validity. His Betty
is a shopworn literary dummy.
But his Jonah remains a vital contribu-
tion to the literature of this country. Like
Dyson’s Fact’ry ’Ands and his mining
stories, it will be reprinted many times.
This brief survey of both merely hopes
to hurry that procedure a little. — Norman
Lindsay.


I
mm
“Stetson” hats. Illustrated is the “San Juan, ’ 2fin. brim with self
bindings, satin lined. In shades of greys, blues, fawn, green and brown.
Priced at 73/6.
‘Country hats’
“Henderson” hats
«BSBSBg
iiiiiiii
n
“Woodrow” hats
Did you ever wear a hat
with that. . .
“Made to order feel”
Some hats always feel like strangers. But we have such a large
range you can’t help but find your right shape as well as fitting. A hat that
conforms to the shape of your head, the way a glove does on
your hand. Why not come in to Anthony Horderns now for your
winter hat? See new shapes and colours as well as old favourites. Hats
are in our Ground Floor George Street Men s Department.
Have your old
If your hat looks limp and shabby, has lost its shape, bring
it in to us and we will block it and generally give it new life.
HAT DEPARTMENT, GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST.
Left
“Country hats.” Fur felt
hats with 3in. brims. Shades
of grey, fawn. Price 40/-.
Also in Woodrow English
make, 65/-. Sombrero
hats with high crown, wide
brims, plaited leather
bands. Fawn or black.
Price 55/-.
Left centre
“Henderson” hats. Royal
Standard quality, bound
edge brims. Satin lined,
greaseproof tip. Greys,
blues, green, fawn, brown.
Price 48/-.
Lower left
“Woodrow” hats. A new
shipment of this famous
English hat. Snap brim
with bound edges. In grey,
blue grey, fawn and brown.
Price 69/6.
I
Right
The Akubra “Clubman”
With the colour blend Tweed
finish, and double edge brim.
Blended shades of grey, blue
grey, green, fawn and brown.
Priced at 50/-.
STORE
OPENS
.30 a.m
DAILY
“Fayrefield” hats. Satin bound with greaseproof tip. Snap brim
styles with plain or bound edge. Light, mid and dark grey, blues,
green, fawn and brown. Cut edge brim style, 50/-. Bound, 52/6.
The Akubra “Clubman”
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
fs
ds
d
Plfjr. TAPS (MOAM \ AND PLACE YOUR ORDER OR MAIL TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
YES, PHONE AND MAIL ORDERS


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 28, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3872
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE PETROV AFFAIR
The events of April, 1954, mark the end of an epoch
in Australia and the opening of a new one almost as
clearly as the events of April, 1915. As Gallipoli
changed the Australian outlook and brought home the
grim implications of involvement in war, so the Petrov
affair brought home the ugly implications of our
necessary involvement, as a growing nation, in world
defence in peace-time.
Australians hitherto, dwelling in their remote
fairyland where the Darwin bombing-raid, with a few
houses crumbled and a sad few killed, seemed like a
major national disaster, have read with interest of
Communist operations and methods overseas. They
have felt a vicarious thrill of horror as they have
read of hairbreadth escapes across borders and of Red
spy-rings.
But in Australia, whether in politics or in science
or social life. Communism as the Commonwealth has
seen it in the past week has been esteemed as something
unreal, a sort of play-acting which it was a little
naughty to take part in, but relatively harmless, because
a democracy can always control its citizens when it
comes to the point, and because everybody has an
innate faith in the power of the courts and of the
police, and particularly of public opinion.
People who took a sterner view were “Red-baiters”
or “witch-hunters”— terms invented by the Communists
themselves as one of their repellants against attackers.
Australians found it hard to understand how
McCarthyism could grow-up in the United States,
why a mild-mannered democratic Government should
need to push the Rosenberg spy-plot to grim finality
by executing the main actors.
But that was last month. This month anybody even
remotely connected with the Russian network, which
obviously has existed in Australia as in every major
country, must be thanking his stars that the Royal
Commission is not yet sitting and that his name has not
been mentioned —a matter for which all concerned
have to thank the fairness and personal consideration
of the Prime Minister and his advisers. Public opinion
is in a mood to deal sternly with even suspected
traitors.
Australians owe a great debt to the Petrovs;
but an equally great, or greater, one to the Russian
Government, which has been good enough to stage a
public exhibition of its methods for the information
and amazement of Australian unbelievers. The country
has seen the spectacle of a woman, bewildered,
isolated, imprisoned in the dark recesses of an Embassy
amid the trees of Canberra, brought through 200 miles
of peaceful Australia by sinister armed guards, dragged
across the tarmac of the Commonwealth’s leading
aerodrome amid a shouting and angry crowd of the
only kind of Australians who knew what she was
going to —New Australians, many of whom had been
through it all themselves.
The lost shoe the unfortunate woman was not
allowed to retrieve, and the kneeing up the gangway,
the sleepless guards, the fear, the struggle on the
Darwin aerodrome —all these things were new and
horrible to Australians.
Labor leaders —gentlemen whose union and
political movement and immediate entourages have
for years included Communists and others engaged in
lauding the October revolution, and whose A.L.P.
presidents or Ministers have often been ex-
Communists —have professed to be indignant because
the Commonwealth Government should have allowed
the terrible little drama to be played to the northern
edge of our coasts. But Australians have cause to be
thankful for it, because it showed them the Kremlin
pattern, or part of the pattern.
Even now most of those who have followed the
story of the rescue of Mrs. Petrov probably do not
realise that she does not belong to the same world as
themselves, that she has not the same sort of personal
initiative and understanding of the rights of free-will
as they have.
The greatest difficulty which the Commonwealth
authorities had in saving her from her fate —and a
horrible fate it would have been if the cruel Soviet
Union criminal code had been followed in her case.
and she had been dealt with as a hostage of her
husband—was the fact that she was born a Soviet
citizen, trained as a Soviet citizen and in consequence
possessed a Soviet Union outlook.
She was, in fact, very much of the same mental
nature as the first guard of Marines who landed in
Australia after years at sea and in camp under the
rigid flogging discipline of the war-time military
regime of the 18th century. When Governor Phillip
offered them free discharges, land-grants, homes in
Australia “there was difficulty in persuading them to
make up their minds,” and “it needed a change in the
opinion of their officers” before “their fears and
apprehensions were done away with.” They were
accustomed to obeying officers, under threat of cat
and keel-haul, just as if they were obeying Nature.
The reaction of the Soviet citizen to the bark of
the shoulder-holstered guard is exactly the same in
1954 as was that of the soldier of any army of 1754.
Disobedience in Moscow leads directly to the Lubianka
prison, to the cellar and the automatic at the nape of
the neck, or to the slave-camp in Siberia.
Herein lay the Commonwealth’s problem in deal-
ing with the Petrov case; the problem of the victim
being made to understand the fact, almost unbelievable
to a Soviet Russian, that she was at liberty to exercise
free-will and decide whether she would go or stay.
That it was done is a fine tribute to the tact and patience
of those who handled the situation. And that it was
accompanied by such a chain of events as to bring
uome the fact that a dark and sinister influence
threatens the lives of all the people of the world is to
the good.
It was inevitable once Australia became a home
of guided-missile and atom-bomb research that it should
achieve an A 1 priority in Soviet spy schedules. It was
just as inevitable that easygoing Australians—especially
when their Labor leaders and their trade-union leaders
were seen associating freely with Communists and
welcoming them to the bosom of the party—should
have been inclined to take with a grain of salt a lot of
the horror of Communism pictured for them by those
more experienced. But they need have no doubts any
more. They will have in their midst as an exhibit the
Petrov family, perpetually menaced for life by the
same forces that pursued and killed Trotsky in Mexico
and Krivitsky in America, and doomed to be under
guard for sfie rest of theif existence.
This should bring it home clearly that the world
revolution is not an abstraction or a spectre, but a
grim monster reaching out to squeeze free-will out of
every Australiaii home, to replace the rule of mutually
accepted law with the rule of the Karpinsky shoulder-
holster ; that, in the present condition of the world,
defence is the paramount issue of Australia,
It is not possible to avoid the fact that this country
is no longer isolated from world realities. The
Petrov affair has notably changed the whole
character of the Australian outlook. It has transformed
Communism from a quasi-political into a national issue.
Goodbye, Local Government
Australians as a people are often accused of being
apathetic towards politics, and there is justification
for the charge. True, when election-time comes around,
interest can be shown for a while, but in between
elections the ordinary workaday problems of govern-
ment, which constitute the major part of real politics
as distinct from party squabbles, have little appeal for
the average citizen. This is noticeable in the Federal
sphere and still more so in State politics.
It is not through any dark conspiracy on the part
of newspaper proprietors that so little space is nowa-
days given to the proceedings of State Parliaments ;
the dismal truth is that the papers know their readers
are just not interested —despite the fact that State legis-
latures deal with most of the problems that touch more
intimately the everyday life of the people.
With interest in national and State affairs generally
so lukewarm, it is not surprising that even greater
apathy is displayed towards local government. It may
well be that, like charity, interest in local government
begins at, or near, home, and that the apathy over the
doings of the local council or shire begets the spirit
of couldn’t-care-less in the wider field of government.
On this subject London “Times” said a decade ago:
Within the national system of representative
government, local institutions perform the essential
function of educating the ordinary citizen, whose
influence on his sovereign Parliament is infrequent
and remote, in the practice and knowledge of public
affairs States where national democracies are not
supported by the practice of local self-government
will not develop that wide and solid political capacity
in their citizens which is the chief bulwark against
autocracy.
A local-government structure exists in every Aus-
tralian State, but it seems to have failed signally in
what the “Times” calls its essential function. In one
State at least —New South Wales—a result of this has
been to smooth the path for those who want to trans-
late into reality “Labor’s” plan of bringing all local
government under its Socialistic thumb.
The essence of true local government should be
that it is local, and it is not possible to maintain this
requisite unless the size of the unit is kept down to
manageable proportions. The ideal area is one suffi-
ciently small for its aldermen and councillors to know
it thoroughly and for its residents to know at least
something of their representatives. Despite the addi-
tion of sundry other functions, the main responsibilities
of councils are still the upkeep of streets and foot-
paths, the maintenance of parks and recreation-areas,
street-lighting, the collection and disposal of garbage
and similar semi-domestic duties which offer little scope
for party politics and great opportunity for common-
sense discussion and worthy civic service. This service
has always been given voluntarily and without thought
of payment, and, although it has been fashionable to
make jokes about municipal Bumbles, the work has, in
general, been ably performed. Healthy rivalry between
municipalities and exchange of ideas through the Local
Government Association have helped to maintain the
standard.
The ambition of the N. S. Wales “Labor”.
Socialists to capture local government and make it an
instrument of the party-machine springs from two
motives. To the Socialists the idea of small units with
individual freedom of action is anathema ; the very
existence of small municipalities is sufficient reason for
their extinction. Similarly the attitude of the “Labor”
junta is that any man who performs a civic service
for nothing is keeping out of a job a good “Labor”
man who would willingly accept payment for doing
it and that, of course, is not to be tolerated.
As a Liberal-party research-papei* recently
emphasised, “Labor’s” scheme for gaining control of
local government involved three moves. First there
had to be amalgamations of municipalities so as to
reduce the effect of personal popularity ; secondly, com-
pulsory voting to ensure that the ratepayers were
swamped by the uninformed; thirdly, proportional-
representation, so that party-hacks could be brought
in in herds instead of having to run the gauntlet of
individual scrutiny.
The first was achieved in 1947, though not to the
degree that “Labor” hoped. The original proposal
was to reduce the 66 local-government areas in the
County of Cumberland to eight “cities,” which would
have meant eight unwieldy bodies without any
semblance of homogeneity. “Labor’s” majority in
Parliament was rather slender, and the eight cities were
first increased to 14, then 16, then 17. In the final
wash-up 34 municipalities and five shires emerged, but
“Labor” had made certain of one big prize in agreeing
to some minor concessions.
The prize was the permanent control of Greater
Sydney, made certain by the inclusion within its
boundaries of half a dozen industrial suburbs which
had been “Labor” pocket-boroughs for years. Com-
pulsory voting was immediately introduced to tighten
the grip. The next step came six months ago, when,
almost on the eve of municipal elections, the N. S.
Wales Government, following upon a faction-feud
among “Labor” aldermen and in the face of demands
for an inquiry into the affairs of the City Council,
introduced proportional-representation, abolished the
ward-system, reduced the number of aldermen from
30 to 20 and made the election of Lord Mayor a matter
of popular vote —which meant, in effect, by nomination
of the A.L.P. executive.
These changes were introduced against a back-
ground of the Press Gag Act, of disgraceful memory;
their first-fruits, apart from the expected win for the
ruling faction, were the election of two Communist
aldermen.
It seems from recent statements by “Labor”
spokesmen inside and outside Parliament that it will
be only a matter of months before payment of aldermen
is a fact. That will spell the final doom of true local
government in N. S. Wales—until such time as “Labor”
can be dragged off the Treasury benches. And the
lesson is there for other States, too. Especially for
Victoria, where the Cain Government has ambitions
similar to those of the Cahills,
Well-deserved Welcome
When the whistles and sirens on Sydney ferries, tugs
and other harbor-craft broke out last Thursday morn-
ing in the traditional style of welcoming a newcomer
to the Australian shipping trade, there was a more-
than-usual significance about the cheerful ritual. The
William G. Walkley—the long, grey tanker which came
in through the Heads in the grey morning, slightly
surprised at the warmth of her reception—was not just
another new vessel to be given a comradely greeting
and then allowed to slip unobtrusively into the comity
of Australian merchant shipping. This latest addition
to the family was being given due recognition as the
nautical equivalent of a milestone or landmark in
Australian shipping history.
Not only is the W.G.W. the first oil-tanker to be
built for an Australian company; her possessors,
Ampol Petroleum, are entitled to boast that she is
the largest vessel of any kind ever built for Australian
owners. With a gross tonnage of 12,624 and a
deadweight of 18,200 tons, the tanker has a carrying-
capacity of five million gallons of petroleum products—
one of the largest vessels yet constructed for this
purpose, though there are bigger tankers engaged in
the transport of crude oil. The vessel was built at the
Blyth Dry Dock, Newcastle-on-Tyne, was three years
in building, and cost £1,600,000.
On this maiden voyage the W.G.W. brought a full
cargo of refined petrol from Bahrein, on the Persian
Gulf, discharged the lot at a staggering speed
in Sydney and Newcastle, and was ready to head back
to Bahrein for another load. For the present she
will continue in that trade, provisioning in Australia
for each round-trip.
From the point of view of the national economy
the advent of a locally-owned tanker means that
money previously paid by Ampol for the charter of
foreign oil-carriers will now remain in Australia, thus
assisting the Commonwealth’s balance-of-payments
account.
Symbolically the tanker is another link in the
chain of national self-sufficiency, and the raucous
welcome to it was in fact a tribute to Australian
enterprise.


GETTING OFF THE BANDWAGON


PLAIN ENGLISH
Australia's Red Week
Australia, which usually turns an unin-
terested eye on Communists, found a
new interest in them and their methods
Icist week
On Monday night there was the
“drama” —nearly a tragedy —at Mascot
aerodrome, when, after a day ot
manoeuvre which ranged from Mugga
Way to King’s Cross-road, two hefty
Moscow plug-uglies, armed with .38 pis-
tols in shoulder-holsters in the best gun-
man style, dragged the wife of the refugee
Third Secretary of the Embassy of the
U.S.S.R. into an aircraft bound for Mos-
cow.
The scene at the aerodrome was unique
in Australian experience when the crowd
tried to prevent Malenkov’s henchmen
from half-carrying the victim, shoeless
on one foot, to her seat en route,
probably, to Siberia. But for that scene
easygoing Australians have not to thank
themselves; the main actors in the pro-
test were, of course. New Australians.
Next there came the uneasy flight, the
communing between the hostess and
Mrs. Petrov, and the dawn landing at
Darwin on Tuesday. This is always an
uncomfortable event. Passengers who
board the airliner in the cool of Sydney
wake to find themselves streaming with
perspiration in the depressing humidity
of the tropics. Here it was discovered
that the couriers appeared ready to reach
for their guns —though versions differ.
Followed the subjugation of the one who
resisted. In long conferences the victim
gradually summoned the resolution to
make up her own mind and return to
the husband whom she believed dead
and never expected to see again. And
after that there was the “diplomats’ ”
eventual voyage till they passed behind
the Iron Curtain, little Mr. Kislitsin, the
Soviet Second Secretary, between them,
and other couriers as grim as themselves
playing the same role with them as they
had played with Mrs. Petrov.
The real drama of the choice was in
the climax. For Mrs. Petrov it was not
merely needful to make a choice be-
tween husband and country. To go to
her husband she was compelled to re-
nounce the prospect of ever seeing again
her native land, of seeing her mother
and her brothers —of perhaps, by her act,
condemning them to death or banish-
ment along with her friends. Even leav-
ing aside the circumstances of the Petrov
case, the national theory of the Kremlin
is that Russia is a vast prison from which
no citizen must ever escape. Merely to
cross the border of one’s own free-will
is to incur the death-penalty or a long-
term jail sentence under the Criminal
Code, not only for one’s self but for one’s
near relatives.
Of the succeeding alarms and excursions
—the frantic bolt of the Tass corre-
spondent for the safety of the Russian
Embassy, the locked gates with parcels
handed through the bars, the bonfire of
papers, the smoking chimneys and the
other paraphernalia—nearly all could
have been written down in advance. They
run true to Soviet form. Petrov disap-
peared on April 3, but it took the Soviet
Embassy nearly a month to. think-up the
gambit that he was a desperate criminal
who was found to have stolen large sums
of money.
It all ran true to the pattern of
the Gouzenko incident in Canada;
for Gouzenko escaped from the
couriers by the skin of his teeth through
the calm action of the Canadian Moun-
ties, when exactly the same sort of
patrol as took charge of Mrs. Petrov
went seeking him and his wife at their
flat. The rest followed almost to time-
table. Gouzenko disappeared from his
haunts on September 5, 1945, and when
it was clear that there was no hope of
getting him back the Russian Embassy
issued a Note describing him as a “capital
criminal,” and declared he had “robbed
public funds.” It requested the Canadian
Government “to apprehend Gouzenko
and his wife, and without trial to hand
them over to the Embassy for deporta-
tion to the Soviet Union.”
The only matter in which the pattern
has developed along new lines is the
hasty withdrawal of the Russian Embassy
from Canberra, the brusque order,
accompanied by the usual Kremlin-type
Note in gunman’s language, to the Aus-
tralian diplomats to leave Moscow almost
overnight, and the announcement from
the Embassy that Russia will cease to
buy Australian wool.
The tone of the Russian Note —which
accuses the Australian Government of
being party to the demonstration at
Mascot, to assault on Russian officials —
“one of the police hit the First Secretary”
—to harboring a criminal and kidnapping
his wife, who wanted to leave for the
Soviet Union —suggests that nobody is
likely to miss Comrade Malenkov’s
representatives and their company. The
Soviet has broken off relations before
with various countries, including Israel,
and they have survived without harm.
The breach merely suggests that the
U.S.S.R. knows that when the whole
truth comes out about the Soviet Union’s
activities in this country —and probably
the whole of the South Pacific area, since
Sydney has been the main organising
point of S. Pacific Communism from
here to China since a Russian emissary,
Rubanov, was sent here in 1926 —the
Commonwealth will be too hot to hold
any Russian diplomat.
The Australian Government rejected
the Russian Note with dignity and made
the needful protest against its couriers’
breaches of the law in carrying loaded
arms.
Compared to the happenings in Ger-
many last week the Australian adven-
tures seem to be almost mild. In Berlin
a leading Western anti-Communist agent
was brutally murdered and his body
spirited away. And a Russian officer
with his companions, two well-known
East German Communists, who had
been deputed to murder another enemy
of the Kremlin in occupied German ter-
ritory—with poison pistols, diabolically
contrived —surrendered to the Americans,
with the weapons provided by the Krem-
lin.
These things—with the strength of the
assault made possible with Russian arms
and advice on the French stronghold
at Dienbienphu in Indo-China—are a
bad beginning at the Geneva Conference
for the U.S.S.R., which has recently been
coyly offering to join the Western Defence
pact. Communism has been exhibited on
the eve of the conference in all its brutal
savagery and treachery. And the con-
ference to which Sir Winston Churchill
summoned U.K. Defence' Ministers and
Chiefs-of-Staff at Chequers on Anzac
Day looked ominous.
Mascot or Darwin?
Amid the general satisfaction at the de-
cision of Mrs. Petrov to accept asylum
in Australia there “Labor” criticism
of the Government for not acting earlier ;
the question was asked why what was done
at Darwin could not have been done at
Mascot. The criticism was political. It
was Dr. Evatt the politician and not
Dr. Evatt the jurist who asked why action
was not taken sooner.
Equally obviously it was Calwell the
Opposition-leader who waxed indignant
because Mrs. Petrov was not snatched
from the grip of her escort at Mascot;
the other Calwell, Minister for Immigra-
tion from 1946-49, is remembered more
for his efforts to hustle women out of
the country than for helping them to
stay. As for the Eddie Ward who sug-
gested that the Russian couriers’ car
should have been stopped by roadblocks
on the way from Canberra—that must
have been a new Ward altogether, and
East Sydney will need to check the bona
fides of their candidate for May 29 very
thoroughly to make sure it isn’t someone
else doubling for Eddie.
Such criticism as might not have been
political would have sprung from very
human feelings of sympathy aroused by
descriptions and photographs of the
scenes at Mascot, damning indeed if no
other evidence were available, but hardly
conclusive when opposed by the reports
of security-men and the crew of the Qantas
plane that they could not say Mrs. Petrov
was under actual duress when she boarded
the plane. On balance it seems most likely
that Mrs. Petrov left Mascot in a state
of fear and bewilderment, believing her
husband to be kidnapped and probably
dead; no doubt dreading her return to
Russia, but accepting it as inevitable and
without any realisation that Australia
could offer her sanctuary.
The position of the Government in a
situation without precedent in Australia
was very delicate. Humanity demanded
that Mrs. Petrov be given the opportunity
to stay, but it was essential that it should
be plain to the world that any such
decision was of her own free-will —the
more so as she was likely to be an im-
portant witness at the royal commission
should she elect to stay. Even in the
empty calm of Darwin airport she took
three hours to make up her mind, and
that after she had been partly prepared
for the situation by a talk with the air-
hostess, a reading of the newspapers
(almost certainly the first she had been
allowed to see since Petrov disappeared)
and several hours’ plane travel in which
to ponder things over. In contrast with
this it does not seem likely that she would
have arrived at a similar decision in the
hysterical atmosphere of crowded Mascot,
had the question been put to her there.
In considering the whole incident
credit must be given to the pilot of the
Qantas plane, air-hostess Bull, the police-
officers at Darwin and Govern-
ment Secretary Leydin, who seems to
have been the right man in the right place.
That Darwin was the right place is
borne out by the almost unanimous
opinion of the world Press that the Gov-
ernment acted with scrupulous correctness
throughout the whole affair. In view of
Moscow’s subsequent action in breaking
off relations, this is of prime importance.
The Anzacs
This year’s Anzac Day march in Sydney
mustered more ex-servicemen than any
since the war; official estimates placed
the number of marchers at 40,000 com-
pared with 36,000 last year and in 1951.
The increased interest is gratifying to all
who value the Anzac tradition; it shows
that as the passing years thin-out the
ranks of the First War Diggers their suc-
cessors of the Second War are becoming
more aware of the significance of the
Features of next week’s “Bulletin”
will include the first of a series of
exclusively informative articles by “Ek
Dum” on the recent development of
Australia’s Military Forces to their pre-
sent impressive peace-time strength. The
articles constitute the first complete
summary of the position to be pub-
lished in a newspaper. “Australian
Bush Ballads” is the title of a long
essay by Douglas Stewart summarising
the results of two years’ research for
the anthology to be published later this
year by Angus and Robertson. Paterson,
Lawson, Ogilvie and many lesser-
known balladists are discussed.
anniversary and all that it means to Aus-
tralia as a nation.
Speakers on Anzac Day find it increas-
ingly difficult to find new phrases in
which to express old sentiments, feeling
that everything that can be said has
already been said. Not that men gathered
together on such occasions are critical
of echoes from other years. These are
not only unavoidable ; they are an essen-
tial part of the commemoration.
But a new way of saying the old things
is always welcome. That, and the per-
sonal nature of the testimony, is what
makes Sir William Slim’s address to 7000
schoolchildren at the War Memorial in
Hyde Park last Friday so well worth
recording. Sir William said:
I first met the Australians on Gallipoli.
1 never thought then that nearly 40 years
afterwards I would be talking to their
sons and daughters and grandsons and
granddaughters as the Governor-General
of Australia.
In my life I have fought with and
against a good many different kinds of
soldiers, but never have I encountered
any who carried themselves more nobly
or daringly or stoutheartedly than the
men of Anzac.
While I lay wounded among them I
found they thought more of others than
of themselves.
They were gentle as well as tough.
The Anzacs have seldom been paid a
finer tribute.
-
Pressure-groups
One of the most alarming features of
Australian public life is the growth of
the pressure-group, especially among
national employees.
Within the past few weeks the N. S.
Wales Police Association has decided to
join the N. S. Wales Trades and Labor
Council, a body which from time to time
has fallen under control by the Com-
munists, and which the association is try-
ing to pretend is not political. It is so
political that its name appears in the
directory of the Federal Labor Party as
one of the A.L.P. sections with which
party members may communicate. The
move gives rise to uneasy feeling at the
idea of officers of the law joining a body
some of whose delegates even now are
Communists, with whom they will have
to associate in council, perhaps while
those gentry are actually engaged in
organising industrial lawbreaking in which
police intervention may be called for.
But this instance is not worse than the
action of officials of the Australian Public
Service Federation, which apparently pro-
poses to try to make the means test the
main issue of the Federal elections, and,
irrespective of ail the great questions
which are involved in a national election,
determine its attitude to the parties by
their answers on this matter.
Mr. R. J. O’Neile, the general secre-
tary of the association, was reported as
saying last week that public servants and
their dependants would make the test
an issue on May 29:
We are a little tired of promises on
this issue and are looking now to take
political action. The federation has asbed
Mr. Menzies to meet a deputation... .to
outline to them the Government’s inten-
tions on the means test. The federation
has also asked the Federal Labor leader,
Dr. Evatt, to supply in writing: Labor’s
proposals for abolishing: the test. When
we have both policies before us we will
determine which is the more worthy of
support and instruct our members accord-
ingly.
Yes ; “instruct” is the word, implying
that, to its officials, the Commonwealth
civil service is a helot organisation which
does what its commissars tell it.
The public service, according to Mr.
O’Neile, seems to be up for sale on a
mean issue of personal benefit, and no
major question of security or the coun-
try’s general well-being is going to keep
it from the national-pensions till. If the
Government or the Opposition dares to
thwart the plan:
There are 150,000 public servants in the
Commonwealth affected by the means test,
and they together with their dependants
total about 500,000.
If that statement represented the stand-
ard of public ethics of the civil service it
would be about time the civil service lost
its right to vote at elections. Fortunately,
however, few of his members are likely
to follow the strongarm tactics of their
secretary.
The Troubled Air
For the 1953 Senate-election campaign
Australian commercial stations allotted a
total of 494 hours for the broadcasting
of political matter by the parties and
candidates, in addition to the broadcasts
of initial speeches by party leaders.
“Labor” took more metropolitan time
(48.5 per cent.) than the Liberals and
Country party (43.7), but in the country
the position was reversed, with Liberals
and Country party taking 50.1 and
“Labor” 43.7 per cent.
Totals for Australia gave the Govern-
ment group 48.5, and the Opposition 44.9.
Including the leaders’ speeches, the total
time used was 706 hours, compared with
1256 hours for the 1951 election after the
double-dissolution and 2146 for that of
1949.
These are big figures, and they reflect
the excitement of the parties, but a lot
of the time probably represented wasted
effort. No one would want to stop any
recognised political party from doing
what it thinks fit to present its case as
fully and effectively as it can, but listeners
who find the radio-waves saturated with
politics, or discover that a candidate
already heard at ample length has taken
the place on the night’s programme of a
favorite feature, are not likely to be
friendly to those responsible.
A party which cut its radio propaganda
to a minimum, gave adequate publicity
to its own sessions and those of its can-
didates, and then concentrated upon
bright and informative presentation might
find it paid handsome dividends.
The Contortionists
Australian Communists, prepared for
any act the Kremlin decrees, have dis-
covered through long and happy experi-
ence that in Australia there are hundreds
of mugs born every minute. The more
absurd their antics the more some seem
to have believed in them.
They began the 1939 war shouting for
Hitler’s entrails on a pike, but stopped
in the middle of a snarl of rage and
demanded peace with Hitler, Stalin’s
friend. They began eager to hang Rib-
bentrop, and in three months were loving
him as Western spokesman of Com-
munism.
They began that war howling against
conscription, doing all they could to
create strife and sabotage in military
camps, suborning Mr. McKell’s N. S.
Wales Labor Conference of 1940, which
was “riddled with them,” to pass “Hands
Off Russia” resolutions and shrieking
against enlistment in the A.1.F., because
they asserted that the real object for
which the “blood-drunk Menzies Gov-
ernment” was enlisting it was to “attack
Russia through the Caucasus.” But on
April 11, 1943, the “Tribune” was shout-
ing that “as far as conscription goes, the
Communists merely opposed the raising
of the issue because it split the
people.... .These miserable people try to
elevate conscription to a principle. It
never was.” The Communist party three
years before had declared that opposi-
tion to conscription was an “unalterable
principle the first need in stopping
the criminal war.” But conscription then
was merely to save Australia, not Russia.
It is no different now. The Soviet
Embassy said that Petrov was kidnapped.
The Australian Communists said that
Petrov was kidnapped. The Embassy
said that papers taken by Petrov were
forgeries. The Communist party said
(Continued on next page)


they were “phony forgeries” which were
to be used “to smear and imprison real
Australian patriots.” Then the Soviet
Embassy decided that Petrov had not
been kidnapped, but was a thief who
had decamped with Soviet funds. At
once the Communist party adopted the
same engaging theory, abandoning the
previous idea that “Petrov, in the hands
of the secret police and allegedly hand-
ing over previously concocted ‘docu-
ments,’ is typical of previous provoca-
tions and forgeries.”
The only line which the Australian
Communist party never switches is the
one which was embodied in the theses of
the Seventh World Congress of the
Comintern, to which the party subscribed
in its charter:
If the commencement of a counter-revo-
lutionary war [i.e., any war against
Russia] forces the Soviet Union to set
the Workers’ and Peasants’ Red Army in
motion for the defence of Socialism, the
Communists will call upon all toilers to
work, with all means at their disposal and
at any price, for the victory of the Red
Army over the armies of the Imperialists.
Comrade Sharkey went to jail for
advocating that principle in practical
tortus during recent years. Yet the
“Labor” party —till now —has welcomed
into the A.L.P. any Communist who said
he had abandoned his principles.
POLITICAL POINTS
If it’s right that no one is really
grown-up until he has been divorced,
Moscow has now handed us our coming-
of-age certificate,
• •
Federal leaders are putting the finish-
ing touches to their policy-speeches,
Menzies will deliver his at Canterbury,
Melbourne, on Tuesday night; Evatt at
Hurstville, Sydney, two nights later,
• •
Nominations for the House of Repre-
sentatives close on Thursday next week.
Polling-day, May 29.
o •
“Labor” is striving to disown the Com-
munists, but the Reds are doing all they
can to embrace their former friends.
“The New Road,” a sheet endorsed
“Official Policy Communist Party of
Australia, Federal Elections, May, 1954,”
devotes its front page to an article headed
“Strengthen the Links . . . A.L.P.-Com-
munist Unity Can Defeat Menzies.”
A symbolic sketch depicts clasped
hands within three links of a chain, pre-
sumably of friendship. To “Labor” at
the present time they probably look more
like handcuffs.
• •
When Bishop Burgmann and others
issued a statement early in the month
criticising R. G. Casey’s statement that
the Vietminh movement in Indo-China
was Communist, Adelaide “Advertiser”
quoted Gullett, M.P., as describing the
bishop as “a most meddlesome beast.”
Gullett, in a letter to the “ ’Tiser,” has
explained that his actual phrase was “a
most meddlesome priest.” He comments:
“ ‘Beast’ is indeed rather strong language
in which to refer to a bishop.”
• •
A joint Commonwealth-State commit-
tee has reported that most Australian
apprenticeship systems are sound, but
that the shortage of tradesmen in trades
like moulding, blacksmithing and boiler-
making is not being overcome. It suggests
that some form of adult training, on the
lines of the post-war reconstruction train-
ing plan, might have to be introduced,
and that there should be uniformity
among the States in the regulation of
wages and conditions, length of appren-
ticeship, and aspects of training. The
Commonwealth is going to discuss the
matter with the States. It remains to be
seen what the A.C.T.U. is going to say
on the adult-training plan.
• •
An official of the N. S. Wales Railways
has been quoted as saying that the elec-
trification of the line from Sydney to
Lithgow will be completed in three years.
Maybe he’s right, but it wouldn’t be safe
to bet on it. In 1947 Admiral McGrrrr
said the Eastern Suburbs railway would
be finished within three years. That was
seven years ago, and there must be still
at least two years and 11 months' work
left on it.
• •
After Brisbane City Council had re-
fused 'the Communist party permission
to use the City Hall for an election rally
that old friend of downtroddeft Reds the
Civil Liberties League tried to enlist the
sympathy of the Citizens’ Municipal
Organisation for sad plight of the Corns.
The C.M.O. had none to offer.
In Sydney the Comrades don’t have
troubles of that sort any more. Thanks
to Mr. Cahill, they have two aldermen of
their own on the City Council. Result:
they’re holding a May Day celebration
in Paddington Town Hall.
• •
Opposing the “Labor” thesis that
wages could be increased if shareholders
would only accept a lower rate of divi-
dend, economist H. W. Herbert gave the
Queensland Industrial Court a few
statistics. He said that in 1952-53 divi-
dends in this country totalled £lOO million
while salaries and wages were £2OOO
million. If the average dividend were
reduced from 6 per cent, to 4} per cent,
this would mean a reduction of £25 mil-
lion, barely enough to provide for an
extra 3s. in the weekly-envelope.
Herbert insisted that if any large in-
crease in wages was hoped for, it could
only come from greater output. He
suggested a productivity-index as an indi-
cator to the court.
• •
“Bridge-street”; It was left to the
Orient line to take the risk of seeing
whether trans-Pacific services could once
more be regarded as a profitable proposi-
tion. The success which has attended the
experiment has now attracted the atten-
tion of the Matson Shipping Line,
which had a pre-war service to this
country, but which treated with indif-
ference earlier suggestions for a restora-
tion. Now the company talks of build-
ing ships, to be on the run in 1958, and
claims to have “enthusiastic co-operation
from N.Z. and Australian Government
officials and businessmen.” Meanwhile
Sir Colin Anderson, chief of the Orient
Line, says his ships are on the Pacific run
to stay.
• •
The bars of one of the five licensed
pubs in Canberra are out of action as
the result of a fire which seems likely to
become the source of some remarkable
local legends; least credence is given to
the theory of one radio-listener who
FORBIDDEN FRUIT
heard Prof. Geoff Sawer on the A.B.C.
the preceding Sunday. Sawer, who had
been discussing bombs and things, men-
honed that the saloon-bar of the Hotel
Canberra had become a sort of centre
for intellectuals who liked to talk on such
subjects. The next day the bars burne .
# m
bcenscd rs.L. clubs telling them to stop
se jj[j ng liquor, said that, while he agreed
that the law should be enforced, this was
a case w here what was tantamount to
a i e g a j right had been established through
non-enforcement over a long period of
years. Non-enforcement in such cases
may not establish a legal right, but the
N. S. Wales Government seems to argue
that it does so in the case of Broken Hill,
# m
Queensland Senator Kendall is advo-
eating research into the possibilities of
making newsprint from bagasse, the
residue of sugarcane after extraction,
The question has been raised before, but
the process Kendall is interested in seems
to be a new one; it combines the bagasse
with the waste from the fibre-plant kenaf,
which he claims would grow readily in
Queensland, Advantages; a new crop and
a new industry for Queensland; a use
for sugarcane waste; a saving of dollars
now paid for newsprint. Sounds worth
investigating.
• •
Melbourne Tramways Board is reported
to have discovered that untrained men
of 45 are too slow and dull to make
efficient tram-conductors and without
youth, vigor and gymnastic training no
conductor could handle a tram at peak
periods. The board probably found this
out when some of its members tried to
get a foothold on one of the trams.
• •
In the closing hours of the Parliament
Eddie Ward harked back to Federal con-
trol of prices, and the “exploitation of
consumers” by commercial- and manu-
facturing - interests. He asked the
Priminister questions on the subject.
Menzies’s reply, in part, read;
I regard the present economic situation,
including the level of prices, as remarkably
improved. In spite of the legacy of unwel-
come restrictions and shortages inherited
from the Labor Government, my Govern-
ment has been able to take positive action
to combat inflation and stabilise the internal
price- and cost-level. The most effective
way to prevent exploitation of consumers
is not by the imposition of controls which
lead to artificial shortages and blackmarket-
ing. Rather it is to overcome inflation and
facilitate increased production so that the
consumer can choose for himself where and
how he will spend his money. That is what
this Government has been doing.
Not much there for Eddie to take back
to East Sydney.
• •
Motor-vehicle registrations for March
were a record —11,403 cars and 5292
trucks, vans and tractors.
• •
The onion-war is still raging in Vic-
toria. A Sydney transport-driver who
sought police protection at Geelong com-
plained that he had been stoned on the
way from Colac, his onion cargo had
been partly sabotaged and three cars
had tried to run him off the road.
• •
While the Studley-Ruxton inquiry has
been going on in Sydney a magistrate at
Central Court has been hearing a case
which also involved alleged bashings by
police-officers. Charged with assaulting
the police, resisting arrest and behaving
in an offensive manner, a 52-year-old
commercial artist, A. P. Rigby, claimed
that he had been roughly handled by
the arresting constable and later, at the
police-station, punched by several officers.
The policeman who arrested Rigby said
his prisoner had thrown him down, hit
and punched him ; had had to be pulled
off by other police and had struggled all
the way to the station. Dismissing as
unacceptable the evidence of several de-
fence witnesses who claimed to have been
at the scene of arrest, Soiling, S.M., found
Rigby guilty on all counts. An appeal
is pending. »
• •
Latest from the Japanese radioactivity
front is that 30 Australian racehorses
which have arrived in Tokio have been
making the Geiger-counters become agi-
tated. The Japs are blaming the H-bomb
—the ship carrying the neddies passed
within 850 miles of Bikini. What seems
more likely is that somebody has been
putting the wrong stuff in the syringe.
• •
The unbelievable has happened in Syd-
ney—a party of hikers, missing in the
Blue Mountains for several days and
rescued after an intensive ground and air
search, have admitted they were lost.
• •
N. S. Wales politicians are very
jealous of their reputation as salary-
grabbers. No sooner had it become
known that Victorian M.P.s were talking
of giving themselves a rise than the Mac-
quarie-street boys put out feelers for
another £250 a year tax-free. They’re
already about £4OO a year ahead of the
Vies, and apparently they intend to keep
their lead.
• •
“Spasebo”: Soviet Minister of Cul-
ture Kuchkarov Anvar is asking his
Government to send a party of experts to
India to study Yoga, and if it is found
to be useful to do everything to spread
“this real science” in Russia. Yogis be-
lieve that they can acquire command of
the elemental matter of the world through
ascetic practices such as fixing their eyes
on the tips of their noses or contemplat-
ing their navels. Can it be that Anvar
recognises, since the Petrov happenings,
that strong-arm methods are not enough?
• •
“Unamy”: There was a touch of irony
about a six-weeks’ visit which 20 young
British men and women of varying occu-
pations recently paid to the Caribbean,
to study conditions in the British terri-
tories in that area. They went to British
Guiana, Trinidad, Barbados and
Jamaica, as well as French Martinique,
all centres now deeply conscious of the
“color” problem. According to an official
British statement, the main purpose of the
tour was to “bring them into touch with
the people of the countries visited.” The
tour was organised by a committee
appointed by the Prime Minister to
administer a sum allocated to encourage
youth travel overseas. This is part of
a gift made in 1946 to the people of
Britain from the people of Basutoland,
the Bechuanaland Protectorate, Swazi-
land, and —here’s the ironic touch —the
Union of South Africa. I wonder what
Dr. Malan thinks of the use of that
money to show youthful Britishers how
colored peoples are progressing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
CUTTING in a Melbourne bus the other
evening I counted fourteen women of
various ages done-up with enormous
goggles as if going in for deep-sea diving.
The goggles were all shapes and sizes,
some with white rims and some with
yellow, and the prettiest girls were wear-
ing the most unsightly. It could not
have come about that all of a sudden 50
per cent, of the female population had
been afflicted with weak eyesight. I
then thought of modern painting. Hun-
dreds of talented young people are paint-
ing pictures which look like nothing on
earth, and which any child could paint,
given an elementary knowledge of oils
and pigments. Has something suddenly
gone wrong with their eyesight, or have
they merely slopped into a fashion, like
the goggle-wearing ladies? —“Spoke-
shave.”
+*<■
“X.M.N.”: Work has begun on the
three largest cargo-ships in the world.
Each of these monsters, designed for ore-
carrying, will lift 60,000 tons. They’ve
been designed by the Isherwood naval-
architect firm of London. Who is going
“ Watch your step, now , Johnnie. I told Mummy you're Liberal
and Daddy thinks you re Labor , so they're BOTH happy."
to build them? Well, we showed them
«how to do it—they’re being built at Kure,
Japan.
*x* *x* *x*
“Mugga Way”: Few car-drivers in Can-
berra appreciate the manner in which
operators of “D.C.” (Diplomatic Corps)
cars employ their immunity from the
traffic laws. Questions in Parliament
brought answers that “D.C.” plates are
issued for cars maintained for the official
use of diplomatic missions, “and to those
privately-owned by persons whose names
appear on the diplomatic list —this is,
members of diplomatic staffs, their wives,
and in certain cases their daughters over
the age of 18,” drivers being required to
obtain an Australian driving-licence,
given on production of a licence from
elsewhere. While “diplomatic persons are
by international law immune from the
local jurisdiction, drivers of diplomatic
cars are naturally expected.... .to ob-
serve the speed-limits and other traffic-
regulations.” The reply added, somewhat
mysteriously, that “in cases of serious
breach the persons concerned have been
asked to leave this country.” Who were
they, and what were the facts?
❖ ❖
“Fons”: To quote from “Sweetness
and Light” (B. 7/4/’54): “Stories about
natural justice [for readers of literary
digests] show that a little private horse-
sense is better than a lot of pettifogging
law.” Well, at Grafton (N.S.W.) Court
of Petty Sessions the other day (“Daily
Examiner” report) Mr. A. E. Capp, S.M.,
complimented two solicitors for their
peacemaking in two cases of assault.
❖ *X* *X*
“Vingter”; At the height of the man-
power shortage of 1942 I entered a Bris-
bane shop in search of stiff collars and
was accosted by a horny-handed oldster,
who asked: “What size do y’
want, mate?” On my confessing that I
wasn’t too sure, the salesman, who had
probably worked as a wharfie before
being manpowered as a counter-jumper,
almost decapitated me spanning my
neck. He then announced: “That ’s
miles too small! Have ago at
these!” throwing a box of them at me.
I inspected them, but decided not to make
a purchase. I framed my reply as diplo-
matically as I knew how. “Quite jakerloo
with me, mate,” he assured me. “Why
the hell anyone wants to wear such abor-
tions beats me! ” Then, with the air of a
man with a mission, he tore the chokers
asunder and dropped them into the
wastepaper-basket.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Melbn” ; There’s treasure-trove in
Victoria besides Benita Benito’s. In the
great bushfires of 1939, when Warrendyte
was immolated, an offshoot of the blaze
swallowed the house of the late Sir Wil-
liam Irvine, at Eltham. Sir William was
elsewhere. When firefighters, exhausted
by saving a dozen other houses, arrived
all that remained was Sir William’s cellar,
Sir William was a connoisseur of wine;
some decided it was their duty to sal-
vage the best vintages. Fully loaded, they
made their way to the bank of the river
for a well-earned rest. They were busily
testing Sir William’s connoisseurship
when, with a roar like a jet plane, flame
leapt the river and ignited the opposite
bank. They hastily threw the remaining
bottles of old port and sherry into the
Yarra and jumped in after them, while the
conflagration went on to wipe Warren-
dyte off the map. The small boys of the
village have been diving for the precious
liquid ever since, but no success has been
reported.
ij*
“C.S.”: An Australian lass, ashore in
Aden, reached the end of the Steamer
Point shopping-area and priced an ivory
fan. “Two-shillings, Madam,” said the
Arabian. “Rot,” was the forthright reply,
“they’re a shilling down the street.” The
Arab spread his hands. “Then, Madam,”
he said, “why not go down the street?”
»>
“Balwyn”: Of the world’s unique
clubs, my choice would be the Interna-
tional Bottle Club. Its members are not
alcoholics, bottle-ohs or beer-label col-
lectors : their main interest is in the map-
ping of ocean-currents. Bottles are
launched and retrieved at various points
and their positions carefully noted on the
enclosed charts. One of these has floated
for 25 years and is still on the move after
several trips around the globe, carrying a
wealth of nautical data. It isn’t a new
idea. The ancient Greeks plotted the
currents of the Aegean Sea in this way.
Also, Columbus, caught in a hurricane off
the West Indies, described his plight on a
scrap of paper which he tossed into the
waves in a bottle. It was never found,
but an entry in that mariner’s log-book
told of its launching.
❖ ❖
“Salt Horse”: The term “Old Dart,”
which has grated on the nerves of “Galen’s
Disciple” (B. 14/4/’54), need do so no
longer. The River Dart in Devon (Eng.)
has, at Dartmouth, the great naval col-
lege and, as its main port, Plymouth.
Just as exile Aussies might say they’d
like to see the “Old Yarra” again, so naval
ratings long absent from Plymouth on
foreign stations would say they’d like to
have another look at the “Old Dart.”
Just quietly, so would I.
*£♦
“Peers”: The abbreviation “P.M.”
probably gets more varied use than any
other. Here in Tasmania it may stand
for Prime Minister, postmaster, post-mor-
tem, a time past noon or a police! magis-
trate. As the last-named is usually
coroner as well, it has happened that a
P.M. has received a report on a P.M. on
a P.M, at 2 p.m. In other words, an in-
quest was held one afternoon on the death
of a postal official.
♦ ♦
“D.1.F.”: Use of “Mac” or “Me” in
Gaelic (B. 7/4/’54) is an easy one.
But there are other snags. I was
given a Gaelic name here in Aus-
tralia by a dad who could spout the lingo.
Fed-up spelling it out to teachers of the
Sassenach breed and by having it queried
on documents, 1 used to waken my wife
saying “two eyes, an a and an n” in my
sleep. My son is lan, but I still have to
remember I am lain, for legal purposes
only. Now “An Chuidh” reckons the rest
°f. m y name is “Shimmi”—“Mac
Shimmi, ’ he says, “chief of the clan
F raser What’s the Gaelic for ?
......
“An Chuidh”: Either a misprint or a
mistake in my par, (B. 7/4/’54), but the
“ae” in Gaelic is not a diphthong. Gaelic
is the English rendering (phonetically) of
Gaidhlig, the “dh” silent and the “g”
hard, the “ai” long as in “fate.” The
word is not pronounced “Gallic,”
*> *> ❖
“Roirp”: Autograph-hunting has been
my weakness ever since my father gave
me an autograph-book containing verse
penned by “Banjo” Paterson and Roderic
Quinn, specimens of the work of leading
Australian artists, and signatures of V.C.-
winners, a Prime Minister and a host of
other V.I.P.s. The specimen here repro-
duced is a personal victory—one which
the Australian Army and Air Force in
New Guinea did their best to prevent. At
times they nearly succeeded. The signa-
tory told me that he and his H.Q. staff
were on a destroyer that miraculously
escaped the Bismarck Sea two-day air-
slaughter of 16 out of 20 Japanese troop-
ships and destroyers, 5000 men being
killed or drowned (the figures are his).
Another time, with only seconds to spare,
he went underground as our Beaufighters
whispered over the palms of Salamaua,
one laying an egg smack in the middle of
the building above him. I found him in
one piece, though slightly bent, in the
war-criminals’ compound at Rabaul,
awaiting trial, his mission to capture New
Guinea having failed—General Adachi,
Commander-in-Chief, Japanese 18 th
Army.
*X* *X* ❖
“Bass”: The mystery of the disin-
tegrating Comet aircraft recalls that dur-
ing the war a disturbingly large number
of one type of bombers and their crews
were lost when the aircraft went into
nose-dives and couldn’t be pulled out.
The boffins were baffled until Wing-Com-
mander Learmonth, stationed at Pearce
(W.A.), struck the same trouble over
the ocean out from Fremantle. He elected
to stay with his craft, ordered the flight to
disperse and his 2 / i.c. to close in on him
and look for the fault. In the few seconds
he had left he described what he was
doing to try to pull the plane out of the
dive, and said he thought the trouble lay
in the tail-assembly. The other pilot had
just time to observe that the elevator
trim seemed to be jammed. Learmonth
was still talking when he hit the water,
but he’d said enough to give a clue to the
fault. It was found in the tail, all right—
in the elevator trim-tab a half-inch bolt
about six inches long was too weak and
kept jamming the trim-tab up, forcing the
elevator down, and keeping the plane in a
nose-dive. The fault was rectified, and
there were no more inexplicable crashes
with this type of bomber. Later, when a
a base was established near Nor’-west
Cape to guard the Indian Ocean, the
locality was named after the man who
gave his life for his,mates. It’s now the
landing-place for the oil-searchers at
Rough Range; but many still wonder
how it got its name.
MUTATIS MUTANDIS
(or E. & O.E.)
“The story of an English father who has
become a woman is running as a serial through
one of Australia’s less illustrious illustrateds.”
With husbands apt to change their sex
As wives to change their minds ,
We come to problems that perplex.
They are of many kinds:
She may be ( prox .) what he was ( ult .) —
You can’t tell Eve from Adam;
Can tetters go, and not insult,
Addressed, “Dear Sir or Madam”?
Their children in particular,
And also many others.
Will surely find it singular
To think they have two mothers;
And many a suitor may withdraw
And girl be hard to woo ,
Prepared to have one ma-in-law.
But not to cope with two.
In social services, it would
Occasion some dissension —
Two mothers claiming widowhood.
And each a widow’s pension;
But in the upshot both would lose,
As the law stands, at least.
For neither of them could produce
Live husband or deceased.
So husbands, don’t turn into wives—
It’s not a life for men ;
There’s roosters leading double lives
Who never change to hen;
Don’t let your marriage prove a sham.
But, bride and groom, agree:
‘Til stay exactly as I am,
Whatever I may be!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ANEW war has threatened in Korea —
no less than an Australia-New Zea-
land conflict. By morning, light the large
stone replica of the New Zealanders’
kiwi was found to have developed a
tail. Suspicion fell on the Australians,
and was strengthened later by the addition
of features transforming the kiwi into a
kangaroo. The wrath of the N.Z. 16th
Field Regiment exploded in complaints
being lodged. A sergeant in charge of
Australian mortarmen lectured his chaps,
but they all protested their innocence.
However, to mollify the belligerent
“And this is Joey”
Enzedders, he ordered them to repair the
damage, warning them first that they
would be wise to remove their hats dur-
ing the rehabilitation of the kiwi, for
anyone wearing an Australian hat was
likely to have it shot off his head.—
“Uramao ”
’ + #
+ +
“Postscript”: Granted that type used
in metropolitan telephone-directories is
small and abbreviations cramped (B.
14/4/’54) the including of existing sub-
scribers in one book not hopelessly huge
is causing the P.M.G. (or his menials)
greater bother than finding equipment to
satisfy additional customers. Splitting
the directory into two volumes, for ex-
ample would grieve “Narumee” (and
others) just as badly as interpreting abbre-
viations set solid seems to do, and would
double costs (to produce the present book
costs over five-bob a time). I can
assure “Narumee” that a nice bounty
awaits him for a really workable way
out of the difficulty.
♦> ❖
“Bo”: Among household effects is
there any one item which wields such a
tyranny over our lives as the alarm-clock?
We pamper the thing with expensive
bone-oil, and rush it off pronto to the
clock-vet. as soon as it busts a main-
spring. Yet it is utterly useless. You
have to be up one morning,
say, at the unusual hour of
5.30, so you set the alarm.
What happens? You’ve
actually set the time-hands
of your mind. At 4.30 you
wake, anticipating the
cursed ring, and thereafter
you fitfully doze until it’s
time to get up. You forget
all about the alarm there-
after. It doesn’t go off at all
—you’ve forgotten to pull
the knob on top which
governs the mechanism.
But it hasn’t mattered one
whit. I slung mine away
long ago ... I have to get
up at 4.30 to-morrow morn-
ing. Anyone got an alarm-
clock I can borrow?
*t* ❖
“Snips”; Statement of a
speaker at Canberra that
Australian efficiency would
rise possibly 10 p.c. if we
could eliminate flies recalled
a day when the C.O. 6th
Gurkha Rifles was visited
by an inspecting general
who couldn’t fault anything.
Still looking for something
to grizzle about, he said,
“Must inspect your men’s
barracks.” So in went the entourage.
The general froze, his stick pointed at
the ceiling: “Cobwebs, sir!” “Yes,”
the C.O. blandly declared, “regimental
spiders to eat the flies.”
* ❖ ❖
“Red Sea Lion”: Aboard Orontes on
the way to London I was following a
stout lady along the alley ’tween cabins,
but, couldn’t pass her because of the er
—narrowness of the passage. Came two
ladies, the first of whom informed the
stout one, “Jannie, Moom’s oop top.”
Jannie nodded and rolled on. Came a
man and a woman. Said the man,
“Jannie, Moom’s oop top.” Jannie
nodded and rolled on. Came a fair young
girl. “Jannie,” said she, “Moom’s oop
top.” Then Jannie and I emerged into
the space of the for’ard E-deck foyer.
Jannie paused at the compamon-way to
collect herself before I tapped
her on the shoulder. Jannie, I■ said,
gravely Mooms oop tO P,
turned her round usually good-humored
but now distracted face to me. Then thee
can bloo-oody well go top an 100-ook
after her,” she said, “because Ah’m for
F-deck tavern an’ mah pint whatever.”
And she gritted her teeth and went down
instead of oop.
♦♦♦
.
“Emjai”: In suggesting the erection of
a memorial in the A.C.I. to King
O’Malley, on whose motion as Minister
for Home Affairs in the Fisher Govem-
ment the site of the Federal capital was
established, Dr. Evatt was reported to
have remarked, “Oddly enough, there is
no place in the Capital Territory which
bears his name,” It is odd, considering
that it was seriously proposed, at the time
of its christening, that the capital itself
should be endowed with a name derived
from O’Malley—Myola. Nobody seems
to have thought of “Blughes,”
+ + +
v . * *
“Zake”: I glanced at the front page
of my Sydney “Sun.” Industrial trouble
on the waterfront. Still, it seemed almost
in the nature of things for cooks and
pantrymen and stewards to be walking
off some ship or other and holding-up
“Dear Mum, I think I can stick it out here for a few more Weeks.”
sailings. Yet it seemed to carry a slight
ray of hope: “Cook Seems Sure on
Euphrates,” ran the big headlines. “Stew-
ards May Withhold Action.” Then I
read on. I should have known that on
such an occasion a vital item like this
would push all other news off the front
page—speculation whether Billy Cook
would be aboard the second-favorite
when the starter sent ’em away in the
Sydney Cup.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Keima”: Those two Bulletin politi-
cal cartoons (B. 12/11 /’52 andß. 7/4/’54)
showing President Eisenhower as Atlas
with the weight of the world on his
shoulders, though very good comment,
are based on a popular misconception.
Atlas, though always represented as sup-
porting the earth, actually bore the
heavens on his shoulders. Ovid’s story is
that Perseus, son of Jupiter and favored
of the gods, on his way back by air (with
the aid of Mercury’s winged sandals)
after slaying the Gorgon, landed at dark
in Hesperia, ruled by Atlas. The giant
proving very inhospitable, to say the least,
Perseus was forced to turn on him the
Gorgon’s head, one look from which and
all must die. Atlas then changed into a
mountain and (by the will of the gods)
had to shoulder for evermore the full
weight of heaven and all its stars.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Lord Luvus”: You don’t leam much
about the world at universities, appar-
ently. Five Melbourne students, with
collars turned up and hats pulled down,
entered the Bourke-street branch of the
Commonwealth Bank and posted them-
selves about the building while one mem-
ber of the party approached a teller,
pushed his hand into an inside pocket in
a threatening manner —and pulled out an
advertising leaflet. Then one student
yelled “Right!” and they all rushed for
the door. Apparently they didn’t know
that bank officials are trained to draw
quickly and shoot on such occasions.
The reason the teller didn’t reach for his
revolver was that the chief of the C. 1.8.
had prior knowledge of the stunt, had in-
formed the bank and had his plainclothes
men watching the innocents.
* ❖ ❖
“Jock”: When the penal settlement at
Trial Bay (N.S.W.) was abandoned as
such in the last half of the 19th century,
the police-station was taken to Belmont
(on Lake Macquarie, south of New-
castle) by a small coastal ketch, to become
part of the police-station there. The local
constabulary still use the building. The
transport feat is equalled by the remark-
ably cheap freighting-cost—£6o.
*X* *X* ♦♦♦
“8.J.L.”: Scorfield’s “Last-wicket
Stand” (B. 7/4/’54) recalls when Long
Bill, our medium-pacer, was twisting them
down to a temperamental batsman, with
Blue, our slick, but scrupulously fair,
’keeper standing well up, his huge gloves
on jy inches from the wicket. An in-
swinger hit the tops of the middle and
off, and both stumps and ball finished in
Blue’s hands. “Hah,” snarled the bats-
man, “trying another of y’r smart stump-
ings, eh?” and calmly took block again
with one stump standing. A stunned
field appealed to the umpire, who may
not have seen what happened, but who
was awed by the attitude of the batsman,
He muttered something about always
getting the benefit of any doubt,” and
“Not out” was the verdict. Long Bill
began his next run in a dazed, mechanical
manner until, in the last few strides, the
enormity of it all burst upon him, and
he erupted in a ball of fury. The result-
ant scorcher blasted the leg-peg back
fifteen yards. “And now,” snorted
Blue, as the batsman slunk away, “I
suppose he’ll say I sucked me breath in
too quickly!”
♦>
“Cremorne”: “No, Sirrah,” who says
the Gothic was burnt-out at Suez during
the war and later refitted and put back
into service (B. 14/4/’54), appears to have
an affection for the ship. He ends by
saying: “I’ll bet she is a different ship
now.” He is quite right. She is. The ship
he is referring to is the Georgic, which
was bumt-out at Suez and later refitted.
She has several times been in Sydney since
the war as a migrant ship. The Gothic
was built about 1949.
♦j« ♦> ♦>
“5.J.8.” on a grand flight:
When a fellow suggested that we fly to Albury
to have a powwow with some other flying-
types I agreed on condition that he teed-up
the maps and acted as navigator. We duly
set off in a “Tiger,” my friend ensconced in
the front-seat surrounded by as many naviga-
tional-aids as Warner used for crossing the
Pacific.
Never having been there before, I lolled
back as we droned along at fifteen-hundred
feet in ideal flying weather until it was noticed
that the hills in front seemed to be much higher
than we were, so we climbed steadily to 5000 ft.,
all the while my navigator letting out cries of
glee as we passed some object which he identi-
fied on the map.
There was a huge hunk of rock in our path
which I advised the navigator would have to be
by-passed, and then we could pick up our course
again on the other side. When we had almost
exhausted our fuel-supply I began to get anxious.
We were over heavily-timbered country with not
the least sign of a clearing in which to get
down in the event of engine-failure.
When I pressed the question as to whether
he was sure where we were he replied that the
map on which we were flying really hadn’t got
Albury on it, but he had drawn a line to a
spot on (he margin where Albury should be,
and as far as he could say we had definitely
been on the track until we ran off the map. . .
With such reassurance I decided to turn back
and put down in a cow-paddock in a valley at
the foot of the big rock, as I had noted that
there appeared to be a few dwellings there.
We rolled to a standstill on the side of a
hill. A fellow rushed across and greeted us
with a gasp of relief. He said he was con-
cerned when he saw us go over, and it was
lucky that we returned, for the Southern Cloud
had been lost in that country about twenty
years before and they hadn’t found it yet. On
my inquiry as to what the big rock was he said
it was Mount Buffalo, and he pointed out the
chalet near the crest. Our navigator was un-
abashed; he didn’t think forty miles off-course
in a distance of one-hundred-and-sixty miles was
too bad for a first-attempt. The other flying-
types were sympathetic when we reached Albury
after refuelling with a few gallons of car-juice.
They realised how difficult it was to find Albury,
for, apart from the Hume Dam, the Murray
River passing through the city, the main Sydney-
Melbourne railway, the Hume Highway and a
couple of thousand acres of houses, the place
is almost devoid of landmarks.
THE SUPREME DREAD
“Every woman is beset by fears, and most of
them are foolish.” — Women’s magazine.
Serenity she may appear to own,
And laughter leap quite easily to her
Up ;
A cheerful song she often may intone,
Or on the ballroom floor jocosely skip.
But ev’n while to frivolity she’s prone
She yet may be within the iron grip
Of fears, hobgoblin fears the soul to
fester —
Melpomene the victor of the jester.
What if a copy of the hat she bought
Sits also on the bean of Mrs. Bleet
And {it is possible—perish the thought /)
Of even others she may ~hance to meet ?
That non-electric pern she’s just had
wrought,
Will it stay frizzy like a boong’s, to
cheat
Her of her looked-for glamor? That’s a
question
Whose import could induce bad
indigestion.
The dresses marked s.w. she wears,
Will they in time give place to x.o.s. ?
That thought may bring the blackest
of despairs:
Lately she’s found it harder to
compress;
Might have to give up chocolate eclairs
And to less tasty fodder soon digress.
Will e’er she get from lay-by her mus-
quash out?
Will her next party be another washout?
Will Mrs. Nexdoor get a bigger car ?
A much more ornate, costly fridge than
theirs ?
And will the cake she’ll bake for the
bazaar
Turn out one of those centre-flop
affairs ?
Such fears as these are the most potent,
bar
This, which with her sisters all she
shares:
Some friend one morn will see her sans
her make-up.
And then tell someone that she looked a
break-up !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Reginald Sylvester Leydin, who leapt
suddenly into the world spotlight last
week with his able and tactful handling
of the Mrs, Petrov incident, has been
prominent in the public life of Darwin
for a quarter of a century. Town Clerk
from 1928 to 1937 and manager of Dar-
win’s electricity-supply for the last three
years of that period, he joined the Nor-
thern Territory administrative service in
1937 and was chairman of the Town
Management Board until the war put
town-management on an Army basis. He
saw out the war with the R.A.A.F., serv-
ing in Australia and New Guinea, and
returned to the Territory in 1946 as chair-
man of the Advisory Town Planning
Committee. Last week’s assignment was,
in a way, a come-by-chance affair; it fell
to his lot as Government Secretary be-
cause Administrator Wise was on an
official visit to Alice Springs.
• •
Australia’s first large-scale “mechanical
brain” earned its inventor the Electrical
Association Premium for 1953. Known
as the Differential Analyser, the “brain”
has been churning out in seconds answers
to problems that would formerly have
kept computers busy for weeks. Ques-
tions about stresses to . aircraft, the Snowy
River project and the transmission of
radio-waves through the ionosphere are
as easy to it as railway timetables. The
“brain” is housed at the electrical-
engineering school in Sydney; the brain
behind the “brain” belongs to W. R.
Blunden, a brilliant young man who is
scientific adviser to the Army.
• •
An unusual award has come to an
unusual Australian. It is the Bronze
Medal of the British National Canine
Defence League, given to a collie dog,
Brownie, for carrying food to two other
collies trapped for a fortnight in a mine-
shaft near Melbourne. Owner of the
three dogs is Mrs. Irene Hughes.
• •
Ask any ex-gunners of the 2/7th Field
Regiment the name of the original of
this Coventry sketch and it’s a battery
of 25-pounders to a popgun they’ll say
“February Tom.” They’ll be right, too,
because that’s the nickname they gave
Thomas Charles Eastick when he was
their C.O. before, during and after El
Alamein. Eastick, now a partner in an
engineering firm in Adelaide and Briga-
dier commanding H.Q. Group, Central
Command, admits the title and says he
received it “because those foolish enough
to get themselves into trouble got 28
days.” A gunner himself away back in
1918, Eastick was commissioned in the
militia in 1922 and became a major in
1930. After Alamein he was appointed
SOLDIER
C.R.A. 7th Division and served in that
capacity in New Guinea. His last com-
mand in the Pacific War was Kuching
Force in Borneo, which took the Jap
surrender and released 2500 prisoners in
Sarawak. For four years “February
Tom” has been R.S.L. president in South
Australia.
• •
A. P. Rowe, Vice-Chancellor of
Adelaide University, is off to the United
States and Canada later in the year on
a Carnegie Foundation grant which will
enable him to give several universities in
North America the once-over. He’ll also
attend a meeting of the Association of
Universities of the British Common-
wealth’s executive council, to be held in
Canada in September. Nowadays Rowe’s
duties are mainly administrative, but he
came to Australia in 1947 as chief scien-
tist in the long-range-weapons project
and went from there to the post of chair-
man of the Defence Department’s scien-
tific advisory committee. Thence to
Adelaide. Earlier efforts included honors
degree in physics (London); aeronautical
research for the Air Ministry ; war-time
work on telecommunications and radar ;
scientific adviser to the Admiralty,
e •
“Macnell” greets a sailor visitor, with
respect;—
Hereunder, the perfect embodiment of that
fictional favorite the “gruff seadog”—known
variously and vigorously as “Buck,” “Bull,”
“Bolo,” baptismally as William F. Halsey, and,
at a most opportune time, as commander of
the U.S. South Pacific Fleet; now in Australia
to represent his country at the Coral Sea cele-
brations.
A man’s actions depict his character more
lucidly than pages of description. When he
took over the South Pacific Command, at a
crucial time, Halsey summoned his com-
manders of Navy, Army and Marines in
Noumea. “Gentlemen,” he said, “we are the
South Pacific Fighting Force. I don’t want any-
body to be even thinking in terms of Navy, Army
or Marines. Every man must understand that,
and every man will understand it, if I have
to take off all uniforms and issue overalls
SAILOR
with ‘South Pacific Fighting Force’ on the seat
of the pants!”
The afternoon before the attacking U.S.
Fleet dosed the Marshalls, a Jap patrol-plane
failed to sight the approaching force. Halsey
rubbed his hands and dictated a message:
“From the American Admiral to the
Japanese Admiral of the Marshalls. It is
a pleasure to thank you for having your
patrol-plane not sight my force.”
He had sheaves of the message, translated
into Japanese, dropped with the bombs the next
day.
Once, commanding a destroyer squadron in
manoeuvres, he was ordered to attack the
“enemy” cruisers. Instead of going about it
on orthodox lines, Halsey-: laid a smoke-screen
and bore in at full speed through the cruisers.
Carpeted later for risking naval property, he
was offered an officer to defend him. He said
he’d present his own defence. It was: “I was
ordered to attack. I attacked.”
The man who commanded the task force
which launched the famous Doolittle raid on
Tokyo now paces the chairman’s office of
the All American Cable and Radio Corporation.
A bit over 71—all his life, rugged reputation
notwithstanding, a victim of sunburn—he still
hates public speaking just about as much as
he hated Japs.
• •
F. M. Kenworthy, chief engineer of
Perth water-supply, sewers and drains,
holds one qualification not often found
in engineers. Besides being a Bachelor
of Engineering and an associate-member
of the Institute of Civil Engineers (Lon-
don), he is a Bachelor of Law of the
Westralian University. Now 55, he has
been chairman of the Perth branch of the
Australian Institute of Engineers, and has
been busy recently with investigations
connected with the establishment of reser-
voirs in the hill country around Perth,
to meet the growing needs of the metro-
politan area.
• •
F. T. Thring sold his interests in Hoyt’s
many years ago to launch Australian
movies in the burnt-out shell of His
Majesty’s in Melbourne. Now, at a
little theatre on the outskirts of London,
his son Frank, the most sanguine and
flamboyant actor-producer Melbourne
has ever known, has taken a lease to
present revivals and new plays to high-
brow audiences. With him is Frederick
Farley, as chief-producer, and Robin
Lovejoy, Alan Burke and Kevin Mcßeath
as assistants. All are from Melbourne
and vj/ere with Frank Thring in his short,
artistically successful but commercially
painful sojourn at the Arrow Theatre, on
Melbourne’s outskirts.
. • •
One of the key figures in the vast £ 144-
million Gold Coast Volta River scheme,
which is planned to solve Britain’s
aluminium problems, is Commander
Robert Gillman Allen Jackson, C.M.G.,
0.8. E., born in Melbourne and one-time
secretary of the Department of National
Development which was going to revolu-
tionise the economy of post-war Aus-
tralia. Jackson is leading a commission
into the new Promised Land to investi-
gate every aspect of a scheme for which
the British taxpayer, who lost tens of
millions on the East African peanut-
scheme, has to find an initial £56 million,
to be spent on damming one of West
Africa’s biggest rivers to form the world’s
largest artificial lake. This is to provide
electric-power to extract millions of tons
of aluminium from the local bauxite.
There are also ports, railways, roads,
mines, townships and labor-settlements to
be constructed. Big as the scheme is it
shouldn’t daunt Jackson. He was the chap
responsible for victualling beleaguered
Malta ; later he directed supplies for the
Middle Eastern armies, was in personal
charge of the salvaging of Europe’s dis-
placed millions under U.N.R.R.A. and
supervised the shifting of the burden on
to the World Health Organisation.
• •
Dorothy Sandars, first Westralian to
win an Ida Smedley Mac Lean fellowship
—one of nine awarded for 1954-55 by the
International Federation of University
Women to graduates of various countries
—has a long score of research-work to
her credit. She won a Hacked scholarship
and took her M.Sc., with a first in zoology,
at the Westralian University in 1944, and
joined the lecturing staff of Queensland
University two years later. At present she
is senior lecturer in parasitology in
Queensland’s Department of Social and
Tropical Medicine. Her fellowship will
take her to the London School of Hygiene
and Tropical Medicine and the Univer-
sities of Bergen (Norway) and Helsinki
(Finland), where she will work on the
comparative study of parasites of Aus-
tralian and American marsupials.
• •
One of the biggest one-man jobs of
boat-building ever tackled by a self-
taught shipwright has just been completed
by Gordon Fletcher at Somers (Vic.). It
is a smart-looking ocean-going luxury
motor-vessel, 60ft. overall, with four two-
berth cabins, a three-berth cabin for the
crew and a dining-saloon with all mod.
cons., including cocktail-bar. Tasmanian
bluegum and Parana pine were mainly
used in the construction, which began on
Anzac Day, 1947. The 68-year-old
builder got no help whatever except in
having the two 95-h.p. engines lifted into
position by Flinders Base naval ratings. A
motor mechanic, he once owned a garage
at St. Kilda.
• •
Returning to New Zealand after six
years as scientific liaison-officer in Lon-
don, Dr. E. Marsden, whose war-time
scientific work brought him the American
Medal of Freedom —the first award of
this distinction to a New Zealander. A
friend and colleague of Lord Rutherford,
he will call at Cape Town on his home-
ward journey to deliver, at the request of
the Royal Society, the third annual Com-
monwealth lecture on atomic energy ; he
will speak on Lord Rutherford’s part in
its development. The first and second of
these lectures were given in New Zealand
by Sir John Cockcroft and Sir James
Chadwick. Marsden’s successor in Lon-
don will be Dr. V- Armstrong, D.Sc., a
Canterbury University College product
who has been scientific liaison-officer in
Washington,
• •
“Uramao”: Former C. of E. Primate
of New Zealand Archbishop A. W.
Averill celebrated the other day the 60th
anniversary of his arrival in N.Z.,
his first charge there the oldest church
in Christchurch, St. Michael and All
Angels, in Oxford Terrace. After 16
years in various parishes in Canterbury
he was selected as bishop of Waiapu, and
in 1913 went as bishop to Auckland, be-
coming Primate in 1925. Retired since
1940, he can claim that in the “city of
bicycles” he and his wife were pioneers
on the pneumatic-tyred contraptions of
the gay ’nineties.
• •
Alex Lillico, since the death of Billy
Hughes the oldest politician in Australia,
is calling it a day at 81. He has been a
member of the Tasmanian Legislative
Council for 30 years, but, will not contest
his seat at next month’s election.
Herewith Mervyn Skipper, who has
been The Bulletin’s Melbourne literary
representative for more than a quarter of
a century, and has just had the pleasure
of seeing his book The Meeting Pool,
originally published in 1929, on sale
again—this time in the Puffin series,
an offshoot of the Penguin books. The
folktales which comprise the book were
written in the form of letters to his
daughter when Skipper was stationed as
SKIPPER
a cable-officer at Labuan —most of them
told to him by a Kaydayan youth who
could climb a coconut-tree faster than a
monkey.
Skipper’s association with The Bul-
letin goes back to 1899, when, at thirteen,
he sent in a poem which was printed in
“Answers to Correspondents.” His next
effort was an enthusiastic paragraph
about Norman Lindsay’s drawings writ-
ten when Skipper was studying art under
Julian Ashton in Sydney.
Giving up art, Skipper joined the
Eastern Extension Cable Co. and for
about 20 years spent most of his time in
the Far East, stationed at or visiting, at
various times, Singapore, Banjoewangie,
Java, Manila, Hong Kong, Saigon, Siam,
Penang, Borneo, Shanghai, Japan and
Vladivostok. During leave periods he
travelled through Siberia, Russia and Fin-
land. His Far East and Russian experi-
ences have provided material for count-
less Bulletin paragraphs and articles.
In 1924, invalided out of the cable ser-
vice, he strolled into The Bulletin office
to ask what prospects there were in free-
lance journalism, and editor S. H. Prior
straightway offered him a job. He’s still
got it.
• •
The collapse and death of Thomas
Henry Peterson, on the Northam (W.A.)
bowling green, at 71, ended a success
story which might well be transformed
into a first-rate novel. Born at Benalla
(Vic.) in 1883, Peterson was taken to New
South Wales at five years old, ran away
from home at 12, worked on a farm for
15-bob a week and at wood-contracting
until 1903, when he went to Westralia,
arriving there with a capital of 225. 6d. He
cut timber for several years, during which
he managed to save enough to secure the
selection he had taken up in the Wicke-
pin district in 1904. After 1909, he con-
centrated on farming, but returned to
N. S. Wales in 1920 and took up land
near Cowra, Four years later he sold
out and returned to the West, bought a
property near Northam and eventually
secured a number of other farming pro-
perties. Throughout the years that fol-
lowed he was actively associated with
various farmers’ organisations, and the
measure of his success may be gauged by
the fact that he left £lOO,OOO to the Wes-
tralian Farmers’ Union.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 74, Charles Maxwell, of East Malvern
(Vic.), one of the best-known A.I.F. medicos of
World War I and later of the Victorian
Repatriation staff. He first practised in
Queensland (Burketown, and later Hughenden),
and for many years was at Frankston (Vic.),
where he helped found the High School.
At Rockhampton (Q.) at 87, John B. Shan-
non, one of a family whose pastoral interests in
Queensland go back nearly a century. One of
the first directors of Queensland Primary Pro-
ducers’ Co-operative, he was patron of the
Rockhampton Jockey Club. His horse, Fairy
Bob, won the Prince of Wales Cup at Eagle
Farm in 1920, when John received the trophy
from the hands of its namesake.
In Melbourne, at 58, broadcaster Roy Glenis-
ter, who served overseas with the Ist A.1.F.,
and toured England with “The Anzac Coves,”
one of the best-known of the Digger concert-
parties. Later he was a singer, a prospector, and
a businessman before finding himself in radio.
During War II a correspondent with an A.B.C.
mobile unit; after that, assistant-manager of
A.B.C. stations in Port Moresby, Brisbane and
Melbourne.
In Perth, at 82, Wallace Clubb, Director of
Education in Westralia from 1929 to 1935. A
sound classical and Shakspearian scholar and a
good administrator, he pioneered the establish-
ment of central schools and instituted refresher-
courses for teachers.


MAY DAY PREVIEW


ABORIGINALITIES
A MERICAN researchers now think that
bees use a variety of languages, or
dialects, each unintelligible to members
of other tribes. Sounds plausible. The
Austrian scientist Von Frisch established
that bees communicate with each other,
very largely by means of a dance con-
ducted over a certain number of cells.
Different movements indicate the distance
and direction of a source of nectar, while
the height above ground could be given
so accurately that other members of the
hive could go straight to the spot. He
thought that sign-language was supple-
mented by the use of certain odors, and
there’s quite a chance that sounds may
also have been employed. There are
many varieties of bees, native to several
different countries, and it would be strange
if they didn’t use entirely different signs
and sounds.—“S.G.”
♦ ♦ ♦ «
“Jon”: “Sackfair’s” old mate (B.
24/3/’54) was off the beam when he said
making bull-terriers deaf through punc-
turing their eardrums would eventually
lead to their descendants being born deaf.
Changes occurring in body-cells will not
affect germ-cells. Only the genes can
“ Cam, y' blasted hit-run driver !”
do that. Look how long we have been
tailing sheep, but they persist in being
born with tails as long as ever.
* * * ♦
“Archaen”: It might help “Harbel”
(B. 7/4/’54) to know that white-ant infes-
tation always begins with a single insect
—a young queen that has just mated.
She seeks-out a piece of timber on which
her species can feed. It doesn’t matter
much where it is as long as it contacts
earth from which moisture can be drawn
in a dry climate. In a humid area there
is no need for this. She may select that
one karri floor-joist which the builder
rang-in among the genuine jarrah; it
may be the solitary Oregon roof-timber in
a structure otherwise built of cypress-
pine. Into this she chews a small tunnel,
in which she lays a few eggs. When they
hatch, she tends the youngsters until they
can look after her. From
then on she grows with
the colony. Eventually
she becomes a huge egg-
laying machine. As soon
as you stop thinking of
white-ant colonies mov-
ing-in like a swarm of
bees and realise that it
all starts with one female
seeking a new home in
which she can start a
colony everything be-
cotnes plain.
* *
“Macquarie”: The
strongest overarm stroke
won’t bring a swimmer
through a powerful under-
tow ; it will merely ex-
hausts him. Then, if he
panics, he’ll drown. The
sensible thing is for him
to turn on his back, re-
cover his wind and paddle
parallel with the beach.
That way he’ll often get
around the ’tow; and in any case
he recuperates enough to make an-
other bid for safety. Last season a young
woman was caught in a rip while surfing
on Werri Beach (N.S.W.). Although
swept far out to sea, she remained calm,
floated, and saved her strength. No boats
were available and the nearest life-sav-
ing club was six miles away. An urgent
phone-call brought lifesavers in a
truck ; the rescuer found his patient still
cool, floating on her back and not unduly
exhausted, although the current had car-
ried her along the coast for nearly a mile.
* * * ■ *
“J.F.”: Photo, of a cod, with
captors Ron Briggs and Tom Butt, in the
Albury “Border Morning Mail” made me
think twice about some of the fish-yarns
I have seen on this page. Or could it be
a case of nature imitating art?
* * * *
“K.R.”; “Wrap me up in my stock-
whip and bluey,” as quoted from the
lately-published The Dying Stockman
(R.P. 14/4/’54)? That ballad was about
the stockman of old, and it was a
blanket he asked to be wrapped in.
There never was a stockman who sang of
or carried a “bluey”; it was the bagman
who totc*d that around —a bundle of
clothes, etc., wrapped in a blanket and
slung across his back. The stockman, if
he was to sleep out at night, would carry
a blanket tied on the pommel of his
saddle —but that’s not a bluey,
* * * *
“Mackville”: Some years back a local
tradesman pensioned-off his faithful old
moke. The chap who runs the knackery
made a bid for the veteran. He was
curtly informed that the horse had earned
its retirement and was going to live in
idle luxury for the rest of its days.
Turned-out in a big paddock, the old horse
was regularly fed with lucerne-chaff, but
a few months ago the knacker sought out
the owner to tell him; “That old prad
of yours is getting as thin as a hatrack;
it’s not kindness to keep a horse when
he’s as old as that.” Still, the owner
remained true to his word —his faithful
old toiler wasn’t going to be sold for dog-
food. Last week the knackery-man came
in with very serious news: “Your poor
old moke has just about had it; his teeth
are gone completely now. He’s just starv-
ing to death —go out and see for your-
"You sure you re using a blank cartridge for the old boy. Balderdash?”
self.” The owner did; one glance was
enough to convince him it was no longer
humane to keep the horse alive. On con-
dition that the poor creature would be
killed mercifully he gave him to the
knacker. The veteran was standing, head
down, in the killing-yard when a con-
stable walked in to make the routine
inspection. He saw the horse and
stormed: “Who’d you buy that poor
starved brute from? I’ll throw the book
at him!” Only inspired oratory on the
part of the knacker saved a fervent horse-
lover from prosecution for extreme
cruelty to a horse.
* * * *
“Kelms”: In Egypt I’ve seen the milk-
man leading his dairy around the streets,
his cries bringing pails out from the
ground-floor or lowered on strings from
the top storeys. His lone cow-buffalo was
milked straight into the customers’ con-
tainers. Tried the milk once and found it
strong and unpalatable by our standards,
but I think a taste for it could be acquired.
The Australian buffalo, first introduced
to this country on Melville Island and
later brought to the mainland, is similar
to.the beasts I saw in Egypt.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmanian Fisheries’ Asso-
ciation has put on the biggest cormorant-
shoot ever organised in the Detached
State. It covered the whole of the north-
east section, from St. Helen’s to Bridport
and as far west as Wynyard, taking in all
the waters in between. Somewhere about
1000 guns were on the widely spread-out
trail in the effort to drive the birds off the
rivers. Shooters, pro-
viding their own ammo,
collected ss. a head for
black- and 3s. 6d. a
head for white-breasted
cormorants. The hearty
feeders had been play-
ing havoc lately among
the trout in rivers and
lakes.
* «
“Francis Hope”: Long
had I line-fished the
waterholes of the Dia-
mantina (Q.) with indif-
ferent results, until an
old gin showed me the
real know - how. She
laughed at the folly of
my aching vigil over a
battery of set-lines. A
primitive rod-line, with
light cork, comprised
her armament and
the bait, whether shrimp, frog,
centipede or crawfish, was always kept
moving! Up and down, “plop, plop,”
went the cork, and very soon came the
strike. Back in my West Queensland
home-town I was foolish enough to
demonstrate my stone-age tutor’s method.
It caught and spread over the West, and
now when liars’ tales of big-’uns caught
from Winton to Birdsville are told the
question invariably arises, “Were you
bobbing, mate?”
“Sack”: Old Dainty’s ironical name
was born of the color of his washing, the
pungency of his pipe and his ablutionary
habits, but he kept an open house —liter-
ally ; in fact more appreciated by the
flies than by travellers who accepted his
invitation to “stop and have a bit o’
scran.” Dainty dropped-in just as I had
finished hanging our new flyscreen door.
He opened and shut it repeatedly, asked
how much it cost, where we bought it.
A month later I called with a message for
Dainty—and found a flyscreen fitted on
his back-door. “But,” I pointed out,
“that won’t keep the flies out unless you
replace the broken glass in that window
and block all the cracks between the
weatherboards.” “Aw, it ain’t the flies I
got it for,” he explained; “it’s that blasted
Bluey. He will go to sleep on the step,
Nearly broke me neck over him a dozen
nights. But that door fixes him: it opens
outwards—and clouts him out o’ the road
before I fall over ’im.”
• * ♦ •
How Low Can You Get?
Hope Root, an American lawyer, reached a
depth of 500 ft. and established a new record
for a “skin” dive without lines to the surface.
He died in the attempt, and his body was never
recovered. Maurice Fargues, a diver attached
to the Undersea Research Group of the French
Navy, was able to scrawl his initials on a
marker 396 ft. down. But he also died.
With the organisation of underwater-ex-
plorers’ clubs in N.S.W. and Victoria, Aus-
tralia has made a good start. In recent dives
by members most of the compressed-air equip-
ment used was made by members themselves,
and the new, simplified kit of Australian design
has proved as efficient as those of European
design. Undoubtedly, our boys will go deeper.
Their difficulty seems to be to find deep enough
water without going great distances out to sea.
Shallow water is the most dangerous. The
general rule is that if you can dive to 30ft.
without difficulty, then you can safely dive to
180 ft. Changes in depth near the surface bring
about relatively great changes in pressure, and
excessive demands are made on the diver as
his body makes rapid adjustments to increased
or decreased pressure.
The pressure in cavities in the body, such
as the lungs and the inner ear, must be equal-
ised with the surrounding pressure. This is a
fine adjustment, but one which the normal
person can make, and so the human body is
virtually incompressible. If increasing pressure
were the only barrier, then any depth would
be attainable. But it is unsafe for the average
person to dive beyond 180 ft., where the pressure
is seven times that at the surface. The limiting
factor is the strange behavior of the blood and
the nervous system when subjected to high
pressure.
At atmospheric pressure, nitrogen is breathed
in and out of the lungs, but is never absorbed
into the blood. With increased pressure, how-
ever, quantities of nitrogen are absorbed, and
affect the central nervous system. Little is
known about nitrogen-narcosis except that when
the nitrogen in the air is substituted with
helium the “narks” does not occur. Thus it is
usual, when attempting record dives, to use
special breathing-mixtures.
Nitrogen-narcosis is not related to the
“bends.” It induces a feeling of drunken
elation in the diver, which can cause him to
throw away his mouthpiece or mask and be
either drowned or squeezed by the tremendous
pressure. This is probably what happened to
Hope Root and the Frenchman.
Other dangers, such as lack of oxygen,
carbon-dioxide poisoning, bends, embolism,
can be avoided if the proper precautions are
taken, but it seems that it will be some time
before nitrogen-narcosis is eliminated.
Much experimentation is still needed before
we can come to terms with the new environment,
and experimentation means trial and error. But
under the water there is almost no margin for
error, and brave lives have been lost, including
more than half a dozen Australians since the
war. In America there is an average of one
death a month.
These fatalities, however, have largely been
caused by ignorance and mechanical failure,
and might have been avoided by joining a
proper organisation. Nobody more than the
experienced “skin” diver knows the dangers of
working alone, and all diving-clubs would
endorse the call of Donald Linklater, secretary
of the Underwater Explorers’ Club (N.S.W.),
for co-operation instead of foolhardy competi-
tion. They know that in this field competition
would not only be foolhardy, it would be
suicidal,
GRAEME DAVIDSON.
TIDES IN TASMANIA
There are two tides in Tasmania:
The pushing tide of sea about the island,
And the masked yellow tide in the country.
The people in the towns know nothing of this
other tide.
The sullen yellow wave, harsh-tongued through
the midlands;
And mostly they forget the dark-green moving
sea-tide
That forever cruelly sways the weeping kelp;
Only the boy on the rocks, too young to be
serious,
Stands still and sees how the ocean’s endless
belly
Is waiting and swaying its bulk against the
coast.
And only the farmers of lone houses in flat
stretches
See the pale warm blanket of the tide across
the country.
Stiffening spiked branches of the bitter gums.
Thickening to sickness the tufted tongues of
grass,
Making the sheep bleat their fools’ complaints,
And making the whipbird whip cruel and sharp
His glinting metal joy.
For only birds and insects, singing with the heat,
Are the heartless children of the tide.
The town men ignore it, driving through in cars,
The farmer wipes off sweat and ignores it when
he can,
But he cannot free his ears of its singing in
the buzzy clumps,
Or its tall long humming on the naked bills.
He hears the tide of night come in against the
tank.
Tasmania.
CHRISTOPHER KOCH.


''THE roan cow, my best producer, was
also the scourge of fences, particu-
larly those around a haystack. I watched
her carefully pushing against the top wire
until she had it slack. Successfully over,
she sidled around until she reached the
face of the stack; then, as she bent her
head to eat, a brown head flashed from
the sheaf and clamped its jaws on the
fleshy part of her snout. In 25 minutes
she was dead. That must put the brown
snake a close second to the taipan for
lethal speed.—“ Paddy.”
♦ • ♦ *
“Kehns”: As I wrote this a search was
being made for a man lost in bush coun-
try north of Norseman (W.A.) who had
been walking for eight days. His tracks
had been followed for over 100 miles,
but the searchers hadn’t caught up with
him. Norseman is on the east-west
highway, and people who think of Aus-
tralia as well-settled country would find
it hard to believe that a man could be
lost so effectively within a few miles of
the highway and while the country is
being scoured for him. There’s a lot of
W.A. like that. During the war an
observer bailed-out of a plane about 40
miles south of Southern Cross, between
Parker’s Range and Mt. Hampton, but
although his position was pretty well
known he was never found. Neither was
an old prospector who walked out of the
Marvel Loch pub with two bottles of
whisky, and apparently kept walking until
the grog gave out. Trouble is, although
that country is called desert, the vegeta-
tion is so thick in parts you can barely
force a way through it. It’s stunted
scrub, with occasional mallee, gimlet,
morrell and salmon gums, and it’s the
small stuff that stops you. There’s one
type in particular, a ground-hugging
shrub which some locals call snakewood.
Unl]ke the sna k e wood of the north-west,
it burns with a gaseous flame, and it’s
hell and all to force a way through. A
man j ost j n t h a t would have little chance
of getting out, and you’d never find him
& B > j
except, perhaps, alter a me.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Add this to the very
sound dps given by “Gulliver” (B.
7/4/’54). If you’re anywhere in southern
Australia where there are creeks or
swamps and there’s no other sign as to
w h er e mate is must ering the Stock,
y th* tim
move into a bit of a clearing in the tim-
ber or, better still, on to a bit of a rise,
cup a hand behind each ear and turn
your head slowly. The direction from
which you can hear the sharp cree-cree-
cree” of those bush-sentries the noisy
mmah-birds will show where the other
man is.
* * * *
~. • ,
R .N : The small green ftugwhich
lives under the rainwater-tank outs.de
our back-door is often to be seen deep
m sleep or contemplation, on the edge of
tie wooden stand. Sometimes W
thinking he looks parched or dejected
throws cold water over him , but he never
gives a sign of either gratitude or resent-
ment. The odd thing is that whenever the
kitchen-door is left open and unguarded
for a few m j nutes he comes inside. The
book we have on Australian nature-
studies says that he lives on flies and
small insects w hich he catches with a
pre hensile tongue. In that case he would
have as mucb SCO pe indoors as outside,
but be doesn ’ t bother when he does get
i ndoors . The other night he jumped on
t 0 the j ower s helf of the sideboard and
sat qude contentedly throughout
our meak p er haps he is just being social,
* * * *
“Mackville”: Reading J. E. Mac Do-
nnell’s Valiant Occasions I was interested
by the expression money for old rope,
a naval colloquialism which evidently
parallels the landlubber s money tor
jam.” Whether in the traditional past
sailor-men raised the wind by selling old
rope I haven’t a clue ; but certainly they d
have no difficulty in doing it now. Ive
known market-gardeners to travel up to
40 miles for the opportunity of bidding for
odd lengths of old, frayed rope, no dia-
meter barred. The unravelled strands are
used to tie tomato-vines to stakes. And
when thousands of plants have to be
tied, the mile or two of ordinary twine
required would be money.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Birds, wild or domesti-
cated, are utterly incapable of voluntary
deviating from their particular system or
cycle to meet changing conditions (B.
7/ 4 / ’54). A moderate but permanent
climatic change, for instance, would, if
continental, quickly wipe out most of the
existing Australian feathered species not
endowed with the migratory instinct. As
"It takes all kinds to make a World , Mrs. Baits.”
for the emu, he has bred faster than his
principal enemy, the aborigine; but (the
female isn’t the motherly type) only
because of the unnatural decimation of
the abo. since the coming of the white
man. Had Binghi retained sole possession
of Australia the emu would have been a
rara avis by now,
* * ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: Reporting what has
long been suspected, that the Tasmanian
tiger, or thylacine, may not be extinct,
a Perth daily described it as “dog-like.
About its only resemblance to a tyke is
that it’s a quadruped. When it w'as plen-
tiful the Tasmanians called it a wolf,
because of its wolf-like head, and a tiger
because of its striped markings, they
could as logically have called it a carni-
vorous kangaroo because of its ears and
its sloping rump and heavy tail. It s a
marsupial, and as there s a growing be re
that all the Australian marsupials sprang
from a common ancestor it may yet be
shown that thylacine is simply a kangaroo
that took a wrong turning along the
evolutionary track. If he did, he paid
for it. He lost his speed, his gait becoming
an awkward gallop that wouldn’t out-
strip a fox-terrier, and he was forced to
live by stealth. He became ferocious and
feared; but he was no match for the
dingo, which came with the first wave of
humans, and he was driven from the
mainland to his last refuge in Tasmania.
Here his unlovable nature and vicious
habits led to his virtual extinction.
SPARROWS ON THE BEACH
Sparrows, where seagulls should be, bedraggled
Beach-sparrows gathering tips of ice-cream
cones.
As Lytton says, “mice of the air”; new zones
Intruding. And, where the gallant fish-hawk
struggled
Rifling a meal from the sea, an unlucky fish,
Now the sparrows squabble over luxurious
scraps.
Backs to the sea, each over the dry sand hops
Away from the water, always away from the
water. Splash
Them I would, to see if they’d be white; white
beneath
Dust of their alley-colors, their lice-grey down.
Pied Piper, I would turn, to watch them drown
All in a heap in the sea; and hold ray breath.
Much of the carelessness of men, I feel,
Would drown there, too, and bins of paper
and peel.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
COUNCIL CLASH
AVERY light sleeper, I had for some
time been irked by the street-light
which shone directly into my bedroom.
So I wrote to the local council requesting
that a guard be put on it.
The Town Clerk replied, asking for
specific reasons for making the request,
which he said was not usual for Council
to grant. This seemed to call for some-
thing categorical to convince him of the
genuineness of my case, so I replied
forthwith;
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir, —I herein set out, seriatim,
the several very sound reasons why I con-
sider essential the fixing of a guard to
the street-lamp outside my residence:
(a) Because the shorter the anniver-
sary the greater the velocity.
( b ) I find that in its present nude state
the light vitiates my powers of concentra-
tion whenever I get up in the early hours
of the morning to fry an egg.
(c) It causes my left knee-joint to swell
and my thyroid gland to oscillate vio-
lently whenever Uranus is in conjunction
with Libris.
{d) The smell of broken glass I find
overpowering.
I had at first thought that it was simply
the light shining through the window
which disturbed my rest, but I rejected
that theory when my Aunt Herminia
tried to mend her electric-iron with a
hairpin, and blew a fuse.
Yours faithfully,
Ballantyne Bortz.
To this I received a reply to the effect
that none of the matters mentioned could
in the opinion of Council justify the fit-
ting of a guard. However, if I could
produce a doctor’s certificate to say that
the light was affecting my health Council
might consider adjusting the angle of the
existing shade so that it would afford
some relief. This seemed to call for an-
other letter.
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir, —I have to advise, in reply
to your request for a doctor’s certificate,
that it is strongly against my political
principles to consult doctors, much less
pay half-a-guinea for a certificate. How-
ever, I have compromised by going to
a veterinary surgeon. It is his considered
opinion that the pink-eye and distemper
for which he is at present treating me,
and in return for which I treat him, are
the result of the light from the street-
“What the hell did y put me fire out for ?”
lamp shining on my dog which sleeps at
the foot of my bed. Obviously I have
caught them off him when, on its becom-
ing too hot, I have kicked him off the
bedclothes. Hoping this finds you as it
leaves me.
Yours faithfully,
Ballantyne Bortz.
Back came the reply:
Dear Sir, —Further to your application
for a guard to prevent street-lamp from
shining as alleged in your window, I have
to advise that Council has fully con-
sidered this matter and has decided that
under the circumstances it would be
economically sounder for you to hang up
across the inside of your windows some
heavy opaque material rather than for
Council to affix a guard.
Yours faithfully,
This seemed a challenge, and who was
I not to accept it?
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir, —Re alleged possibility of
using heavy opaque material to save
Council from spending an approximate
2s. 4d. on a bit of tin for a lamp-guard,
on making an inventory of available
heavy opaque material in my house, I
find that the only fabric which could
possibly measure up to the specifications
called for are the heavy-duck pyjamas
which I customarily wear.
This would mean that, were I to hang
these up across the windows, I would
be compelled to sleep in either my old
military greatcoat or, alternately, the raw.
I feel disposed to do neither, partly
because in the one case my singing voice
might be beneficially affected (I am a
crooner), and in the other so might my
ability to reverse the car without looking
in the rear-vision mirror.
I again stress the need, in the interests
of the continued well-being of myself as
well as my dog, for the light to be shaded
from the exterior.
Yours faithfully,
Ballantyne Bortz.
A week or two later came the riposte
to this thrust;
Dear Sir, —At its last meeting
Council decided that the question
of whether you use your duck
pyjamas for wearing or as a shade
is one purely for yourself. It is Council’s
opinion that such material would give
you and your dog complete immunity
from the allegedly baleful glare from the
street-lamp.
It is stressed that it is quite against
Council’s policy to create a precedent by
shading a lamp specially for one rate-
payer.
Yours faithfully.
That seemed to call for something
special. I had it.
The Town Clerk,
Dear Sir, —With reference to Council’s
adamantine attitude to my request for
a lamp-guard, may I ask if the galvanised-
iron guard on the lamp immediately in
front of the residence of Alderman
Bohndohm in Oleander-avenue is a
natural incrustation, or did it drop on it
accidentally from a passing plane?
Yours faithfully,
Ballantyne Bortz.
They fixed the lamp last week.
BO.


Ruffl
Tdifawe
I have been expounding the belief that Australia’s
future rests in the B.A.A. Triangle—the sharing of
Britain, America and Australia in a partnership that
could lead the world.
In America, of course, I include the great
Canadian Dominion, that important element of the
British Commonwealth, on which the United States is
becoming increasingly dependent for basic minerals
and hydro-electric power.
Let me enlarge on my belief in the B.A.A.
theorem. If Australia is to take her place in that
triangle she must be receptive to the ideas that
strengthen and guide the other two sides. The basis
must be a free interchange of thought between all
three: nor should it stop at thought.
There is a lot of merit in the American system of
allowing dividends to be re-invested in a company
without taxation—they are not taxed until they are
taken out. In other words, America is ploughing back
the profits for added strength. It is a policy we well
might follow in this country, where personal invest-
ment by Australians themselves needs all the
encouragement that government can give them.
And then we should be training young Aus-
tralians so that the responsible jobs that will go with
our accelerated development, can be entrusted to them.
That has been one of the keys to America’s prosperity;
she is not only training the young men, but is giving
them their opportunity.
If you could see, as I have, some of the big con-
structional works being done on the North American
continent today, you would be amazed at the youth
of the men entrusted with the task. They are full of
energy and enthusiasm, adding virility to their work,
and working to a simple plan.
The plan works well. And —another point for
Australia —the pay to those doing the work is high.
One thing we’ve to learn in this country is to pay for
brains.
In aluminium
containers
lllform I.
Light up one of these
superb English cigar-
ettes of pre-war
excellence. Savour
the rich, mellow
smoothness of that pure
Virginia tobacco—and you will
have formed a lasting preference for
Rothmans De Luxe Virginia ! You will know why, in the
most distinguished homes and clubs, Rothmans De Luxe
have for so long been accepted as
England’s luxury
cigarette.
d
m
4k
‘*SvV
sm
■•- V
England’s
luxury
CIGARETTE
DE LUXE
VIRGINIA
MADE IN ENGLAND BY THE HOUSE OF ROTHMAN
Business Rollery Etc.
Imports Higher
During the nine months to
March 31, a period in which
import-restrictions were relaxed
a good deal, imports into Aus-
tralia increased by 28 p.c. But
during the same period Aus-
tralian production and sales of
most products increased by a
greater percentage.
Even in the case of electrical
goods, such as refrigerators,
washing-machines, hand-irons,
fans, toasters, hot-water jugs,
food-mixers and radiators, Aus-
tralian output was ,at record
level. This industry has had
fears of what imports unrestricted
except by tariff might do to it.
The clothing trade has also
been working busily. Textile-
manufacture has recovered,
hosiery output is at top level,
and made-up clothing is being
turned out in increasing
quantities.
Imports reached their peak
month for the year so far in
March, and competition on the
Australian market may become
more noticeable in a couple of
months. But local industry
seems to be holding its own very
well up till now.
Total imports for the nine
months were £492 million (up
£108.4 million). Exports at
£648 million increased by only
£8.4 million, but there was still
an export surplus of £156
million —down £lOO million com-
pared with the same nine months
of the preceding year.
W.A. Petroleum
“Petro”: The news that
WAPET’s No. 1 test-well at
Rough Range (W.A.) reached a
depth of 8217 ft. on April 19 may
be viewed with satisfaction, par-
ticularly as it shows that the rate
of drilling has now increased
from 187 ft. to 275 ft. per week, or
nearly 50 p.c. as compared with
the previous week’s figure.
The statement that no signi-
Scant changes have occurred in
the strata penetrated is rather
perturbing, however, as it does
not tally with the surface obser-
vations as interpreted by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
The last notable change occurred
at 5417 ft., when salt-water was
struck; but it is possible, of
course, that better correlation has
not been obtained between
surface and well by WAPET’s
geological staff.
In any case, this lateral varia-
tion, combined with lack of
change with depth, suggests that
the structure at Rough Range is
not as simple as was assumed
by the surveyors who worked the
area prior to drilling operations.
This happens so often in virgin
areas that experienced oil-
geologists regard it as a common-
place and are not unduly dis-
tressed when it occurs, except for
the fact that it sometimes indi-
cates surface evidence which they
have overlooked.
As matters stand, there is no
substantial ground for pessimism
as to the prospects of the Rough
Range well, but any further pre-
dictions as to the possible depth
of oil sands or of the basal
complex must be regarded as
wishful-thinking.
G.M.A.C. Loan Stock
Lists open today (Wednesday)
for a £2,000,000 issue of 5£ p.c.
unsecured loan stock by U.S.-
registered General Motors
Acceptance Corporation. The
issue-price of the loan is par, and
the currency three years.
G.M.A.C.’s Australian busi-
ness consists of financing hire-
purchase of General Motors
products, which include, of
course, Holden cars and trucks.
But its Australian loans, includ-
ing the present issue, are backed
by its assets and income in the
U.S. and elsewhere. The figures
speak for themselves: at Dec,
31 last, the co.’s net tangible
assets totalled £A157,439,626,
and its average annual net
income for the five years to the
same date amounted to
£A9,895,140. The annual
interest on this issue is £105,000.
Underwriter is Anglo-
Australian Corporation Pty.,Ltd.,
which has taken firm £1,350,000,
leaving £650,000 for subscription
by the general public. Copies
of the prospectus from the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank or any
stockbroker.
Associated Tobacco
Despite unflagging cheerfulness
in the board-room Associated
Tobacco Manufacturers’ ss.
ords. are priced at 35., only 3d.
above their recent low. Trad-
ing for the December half-
year was “well maintained,” but
the interim div, has again been
deferred, “as all available cash
resources are required to develop
the sale of cigarettes.” Directors
are confident that the full year’s
figures “will compare favorably”
with last year’s. Not as hopeful
as in September last, when the
board anticipated “greatly
improved results” following
removal of the operating co.’s
activities to its new factory at
Salisbury (Brisbane). In 1953
group net profit at about £14,620
was £3405 short of the 7 p.c.
div. —the difference was made
up out of the subsidiary’s pre-
acquisition profits.
Of the £lOO,OOO issue of
unsecured convertible notes
offered last year only £40,000-odd
came in, but now there is some
vague talk in the interim report
of a new co., Queensland
Cigarette Corporation, Ltd., and
of a £lOO,OOO convertible note-
issue by that co. to finance addi-
tional plant and the manufacture
of more cigarettes.
The report concludes: “Share-
holders are advised not to sell
their shares below par.” It’s to
be hoped there is something more
substantial behind that advice
than the board’s complacent con-
fidence in the future of the under-
taking. The co. will need to do
a lot better than it has to date to
support the shares at anywhere
near par.
“I Was wondering if I could delay my holidays until after
the cyclonic depression in June ?”
Herald and Weekly Times
Herald and Weekly Times’
fully-paid ss. ords. at 16s. 3d.
are offering a yield of 5.1 p.c.,
which for a stock of this calibre
is quite attractive. Few public
cos. have a record of prosperity
and liberal dividend payments,
in good times and bad, to
compare with H. and W.T.’s.
The div. rate climbed from
10 p.c. in 1935 to 14 p.c. in 1938,
and stayed at approximately that
level till last year, when it was
lifted to 16.66 p.c. In the same
period heavy additions were
made to visible reserves out of
earnings.
As well as the Melbourne
“Herald” and “Sun,” the co.
publishes three weeklies, includ-
ing “Woman’s Day,” and the
same number of monthlies, and
it operates two Victorian broad-
casting-stations, 3DB-LK. A
vigorous and progressive policy
characterises all these activities.
Melbourne newspaper pro-
prietors are planning to publish
Sunday papers in the near
future, though the Victorian
Government hasn’t yet officially
announced lifting of the ban.
It’s a safe bet that H. and W.T.
won’t waste any time getting into
the field, though it may be a
while before net earnings
reap full benefit from increased
revenue, improved plant-utilisa-
tion and other operating
economies.
It seems possible that the
market hasn’t yet recovered from
the effects of the £500,000 one-
for-three issue made at a 100 p.c.
premium in February last to
finance plant and building addi-
tions. In any case the shares
look good holding at the current
price.
Volkswagen
With the handicaps of the
foreign tariff, prejudice and dis-
tance to surmount, the German
Volkswagen (people’s car) is
ahead of the Australian Holden
in breaking into the N.Z. mar-
ket, and once the Jowett
assembly-line, at Otahuhu, near
Auckland, gets into the swing of
turning out German models
there’s no forecasting the effect
on the car market.
Maorilanders were taken by
surprise when the price of £BOO
for the cars and £lOOO for the
commercial vehicles made them
competitive with British, pre-
ferential tariff and all thrown
in. Jowett Motors (N.Z.), Ltd.,
seemed glad of the chance to
serve the Germans as N.Z.
agents, because of production
troubles met by the British co.,
which, it was said, threatened to
immobilise the Otahuhu plant.
The Government, always
sensitive to shocks to employ-
ment, was ready to open the door
to the Germans. Forty built-up
cars were on the way when the
public was told, and this ship-
ment was to be followed a
month later by about as many
15cwt. commercial types and
“knocked-down” units. German
thoroughness is behind the
planning to give the new models
a good start in N.Z.


The "FARMERS' BOY"
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
to,
The “FARMERS’ BOY”
ROTARY HOE attachment
is easily fitted by two bolts to the rear of the
and is operated by a fully enclosed chain
drive in an oil bath. Ideal for inter-row cultivating
and good tilth.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor
for free particulars and/or demonstration:
N.S.W.: GRAZOOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St., Melbourne.
jMUB 5 51
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (QUEENSLAND), LTD., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Sole Am. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY.
TILLEY, Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
m
m
r&r^c
■
7%
IJ
V/
■" g :
S2S2
i((li
ii
:s?s
iiif
SSS
While Import re-
strictions remuin
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TILLEV
products.
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic —only pints of Kero for
12 hours’ light —it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
/ T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
44 You can bank
on the 4 Wales’ 99
“As a Solicitor, I know the value of
expert advice. That is why I bank at the
‘Wales’. The local Manager of the Bank
of New South Wales is a trained man,
widely experienced, and backed by
specialists. I know that I can rely on his
guidance in banking matters.”
w
You, too, should consult
and use—
fs
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOEPOBATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5329C
Born 1820—
sill! going strong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
jw.uwß.ni
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
There are two sides to the
sorry uproar in the Commons
during the H-bomb debate. That
the Prime Minister committed
an error of judgment almost as
serious as his “Gestapo” allega-
tions against the Labor party in
1945 is beyond question.
In his anxiety to confound the
clique of traducers who assail
him with shrill persistence on
television and in the Press he
chose to meet like with like by
blaming the late Socialist Gov-
ernment for permitting his secret
agreement with President Roose-
velt on the use of atomic energy
to lapse. This followed hard
upon a sincere and statesman-
like speech by Mr. Attlee.
So shocked and furious was
the reaction that the rights and
wrongs of the affair never came
to the surface. Comment nor-
mally favorable to Sir Winston
censured him severely for his
action and also for pathetically
losing command of the situa-
tion. The Conservative Press
skated embarrassingly round the
issue. And the Left-wing propa-
gandists whom he sought to
shatter jubilantly renewed their
attacks upon his capacity to
govern. Whatever other factors
affect his retirement, this mis-
judgment is bound to antici-
p ate it.
The other side to the incident
springs from the anger and
worn-out patience of a great
man who, as the last unselfish
mission of a long and distin-
guished public life, is devoting
his energies to the preservation
of peace. He finds, instead of
general support for his endea-
vors, a merciless campaign
against his person. With the war-
mongering allegations in is
memory, he smarts and ge s
rattled.
The Socialists attack Churchill
because, as an old man of 79,
he is fair game. When he does
retire, they will find some simple
basis for belittling his successor.
The greater the issue the fiercer
will be the onslaught. It is all
an unhappy consequence of the
psychological make-up of a
party which depends for its
existence upon either a myth or
the doing-down of the other
fellow. And when its leaders
speak in statesmanlike tones this
serves only to act as a smoke-
screen for another big push,
The truth is that Mr. Attlee,
Respite his sincerity and good
intentions, did not speak for his
w hole party. Had he been
known to have done so there
wou i c i have been no tit-for-tat
anc j n o uproar,
You Were” Budget
Never was a Budget so anti-
climacteric in its effect. ine
whole nation stood smartly to
attention. Bullish gentlemen had
confidently bought shares. Com-
pany directors were certain that
some tangible incentive was on
its way. Taxpayers (nearly all
of us, that is) smiled m anticipa-
tion of some slight alleviation,
The self-employed couldn t con-
ceal their interest in the provi-
sion for pensions that was com-
ing 1° them. Old folk and war-
widows, hard put to keep going,
plaintively looked up: it couldn t
be much, but it would be some-
thing.
What did they get? A very
long and informative address.
but not a single token of prac-
tical encouragement for the in-
dividual, whether surtax-payer
or drawer of national assistance.
Merely a firm but kindly “As
you were!”
In all the circumstances, dis-
appointment has not soured into
grievance. The sharemarket
dropped slightly, but soon re-
covered. The taxpayer realises
that, at least, he is no worse
off. And the hard-pressed can
comfort themselves with de-
ferred hopes, for inquiries are
pending into tax-reform, into
the problems for the ageing
population and into national
insurance.
Industry welcomes the new
investment allowances which
amount to a subsidy of one-
fifth of the cost of new equip-
ment on top of the depreciation
allowances. Family businesses
also appreciate the special con-
sideration of a 45 per cent, re-
bate on estate duty. But these,
with other minor concessions,
amount to only £4 million out
of £4500 million.
It is recognised that the
economy as a whole stands to
benefit and that Mr. Butler has
bowed neither to political ex-
pediency nor to a fiduciary
“general post,” Hi» action —or
lack of action —shows imper-
turbability as much as courage ;
and it suggests that there will
be no general election this year.
What seems to be certain is
that the Chancellor is trimming
his coat according to the winds
that blow across the Atlantic,
and that a second Budget in the
autumn is probable.
Literary Playmates
Two distinguished men of
letters whose literary reputations
were made outside the theatre
but who have written success-
fully for the so-called “com-
mercial” stage are T. S. Eliot
and Charles Morgan. They have
mutual cause for both congratu-
lation and commiseration.
Modern theatre practice is dis-
couraging to all writers, but par-
ticularly to serious ones. Yet
the West End is eager for their
works (with, probably, a prefer-
ence for Mr, Eliot because of his
higher box-office rating). Both
are currently represented, Mr.
Eliot by “The Confidential
Clerk” (now transferred to the
Duke of York’s theatre, which
is strictly commercial) and Mr.
Morgan by “The Burning
Glass” (Apollo theatre, which
enjoys tax-free immunity under
the much-disputed non-profit-
making arrangement).
The former thrilled Edin-
burgh at last September’s Festi-
val and has played to full houses
in London, despite a mixed re-
ception by the critics. The other
opened only two months ago.
But both—and this is where the
mutual sympathy might lie —
haye failed to impress New
York. “The Burning Glass”
came off with premature haste,
while “The Confidential Clerk”
had respectful but coolly dis-
appointed notices. Broadway is
notoriously a cruel and chancy
testing-ground. Yet as both
plays purport to have a uni-
versal appeal the pronounce-
ments of the American critifcs
could hardly be due to a
“foreign” idiom.
For what it is worth, the
opinion of this critic, seeing the
plays belatedly but for the first
time, is that the Americans were
fair to Mr. Eliot and slightly
harsh to Mr. Morgan.
“The Confidential Clerk” is
no more than second-rate draw-
ing-room comedy, based upon
the illegitimacy of two young
men and a girl and their putative
relationships to a knight-
financier and his conventionally
* inane lady. Both have progeny,
born before marriage, that they
have farmed out. Guess which
is which and who belongs to
whom and there’s little more to
it except the high quality of
Hutchinson Scott’s settings, the
superb acting, and E. Martin
Browne’s quiet, well-pointed
direction.
Mr. Morgan is blatantly topi-
cal. As a variant to that dread-
ful bomb we hear so much
about, his idea is a giant mag-
nifying-glass that will focus the
sun’s rays, with complete anni-
hilation, upon any desired ob-
ject. There is a young scientist
with a conscience, another with
a neurosis, a wife with a
memory, a Prime Minister who
looks like the third Lord Salis-
bury, a glossy Central European
villain and a tremendous amount
of talk. Interest is held and
suspense hangs even over the
two intervals. The play, unfor-
tunately, is too long by one
scene the last and sinks
rather painfully, the basic idea
having run itself out. But it is,
nonetheless, theatre-worthy and
mildly exciting.


a
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jonet; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonei.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Hoffer;
W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
■pjOß whatever it might be worth, the co.
has applied for a permit to prospect
for natural gas and petroleum over a
wide area of the N. S. Wales South Coast,
extending from Port Kembla, where the
co.’s big iron-and-steel works are, to south
of the Shoalhaven River and back into
the adjoining hinterland. Exactly what
the board’s intentions are in this matter
have yet to be announced. B.H.P, and
some of its other subsidiaries have also
applied for similar prospecting permits in
the Hunter River Valley. On the Stock
Exchange the immediate reaction was a
lift of a shilling or so in the bid for
B.H.P.’s shares.
Immediate investment interest in
A. and S., which is both direct
and indirect, centres in the Port
Kembla steel-works. Of the co.’s
£14,500,000 of share capital, only the mil-
lion of p.c. prefs, are listed on
’Change ; the 13,500,000 ords. are held by
B. whose own scrip is one of the
most actively traded stocks on the market.
Over the last five years B.H.P. took up
8,800,000 of the ords. at par and at Nov.
30 last also figured as a creditor for
£6,487,500, some or all of which might
presently be transferred to capital account.
To provide elbowroom in this direction
nominal capital has been lifted from £2o’
million to £4O million.
Since it took control in 1935, B.H.P.
has received only four divs. totalling \l\
p.c., thus leaving the bulk of net earnings
(after payment of pref. divs.) in the busi-
ness to help finance expansion. And in
furtherance of its public-spirited policy
the parent has kept its own distribution at
a moderate 8]- p.c. for the last seven
years.
Although A.I. and S.’s net earnings
have stepped up as additional equipment
came into operation, they have remained
modest in relation to capital. That is
because new plant in a heavy industry
like iron and steel takes time to get into
full production, and a lot of money is
meanwhile represented by plant earning
little or nothing:
i—‘ Dividends
„ „ „ P , ref - To Be- Re-
Nov., Profit. p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
& & £ £ £
1948.. 278,206 75,000 Nil 203,026 2,030,067
1949.. 210,884 75,000 Nil 135.884 2,165,951
Tax-provision account, £72,212 .. 2,093,739
1950.. 617,621 75,000 Nil 541,621 2,635,360
Zi p.c.
1951.. 550,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2.835,837
1952.. 713,213 75,000 337,600 300,713 3,136,550
To plant replacement re-
serve, £450,000 3,586,550
1953.1,275,459 75,000 337,500 862,959 4,449,509
Declared net earnings shot up by £562,246
last term, reaching £1,275,459, which was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
8,9 p.c. on ord. capital as against 4.7, 4.3
and 4.9 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The div. was kept at p.c., equal to
1.35 p.c. on B.H.P.’s capital. When and
to what extent A.I. and S. is likely to lift
its div. will largely depend upon the
board’s policy in financing further
development, on which “many millions
of pounds is yet to be spent.” A couple
of years ago the declared intention was
to meet immediate capital requirements
from borrowed funds.
The encouraging feature last term was
the better response of net earnings to
plant-capacity. And the profit was
conservatively stated. It was written
after allowing something for taxation,
£2,209,911 (up £570,828) for depreciation,
and an additional £450,000 for plant-
replacement—official allowances for de-
preciation are inadequate for mainten-
ance of, real capital at today’s cost of
replacement. Over the last decade allow-
ances for depreciation total £11,448,312.
Bigger production and sales, and
steadier costs, were the main factors
behind last term’s better profit:
Year, Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Dec. 31. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. 615,436 559,317 612,128
1951 ~ 685,468 577,032 642,663
1952 .. 746,590 631,439 638,926
1953 .. 1,011,536 872.004 942,596
A new battery of 24 coke ovens (making
144 in all) were blown-in in Feb., 1953.
And the increased output of steel-ingots
was reflected right down the line through
the blooming, merchant-bar and other
mills.
The year’s net addition to fiied assets
was £4-,458,202, and an extra £4,500,000
was raised on mortgage:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £14,500,000 £14,500,000 £14,500,000
Reserves .. 2,836.837 3,136,550 4,449,509
Mortgage .. 1,500,000 6,000,000
Overdraft .. 264,031 2,205,136 1,027,244
From 8.H.P.. . 2,400,000 6,487,500 6,487,500
Sundry creditors* 6,995,155 8,359,351 9,099,837
Div. pending .. 37.500 37,500 37,500
£27,032,623 £36,226,037 £41,601.590
Fixed assets .. 21,315,219 27,740,048 32,198,250
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 386.497 386,497 886,497
Stocks.. .. 3.860,922 6,114,307 7,266,376
Book debts .. 1,448,366 1,967,118 1,732,400
Cash, Govt, bonds 21,519 18,067 18,067
£27,032,523 £36,226,037 £41,601,590
* Includes provision for taxation.
A growth of £1,152,069 in stocks was
accompanied by a drop of £234,718 in
book-debts, and £1,177,892 was slashed
off the overdraft.
First section of the new hot-strip
mill is now in production, and the hot-
finishing section is on the way to com-
pletion. Other major projects in hand are
additions to the blooming mill, power-
station, and gas-reticulation and ore-un-
loading plants, etc. Apart from pig-iron
and semi-finished steel, demand for the
co.’s output continues at a high level.
York Motors (Hold’g), Ltd. (Syd.)
'"THE motor trade, whose prosperity
has rivalled that of the woolgrowers,
is still winning fat though less opulent pro-
fits than in 1950 and 1951, which marked
the peak of the post-war boom. More-
over, the downtrend in unit sales of im-
ported vehicles reached a turning-point
in 1953, and the position has steadily
improved since, thanks to a number of
stabilising factors, including the strength-
ening of export income and of trade
activity generally, the easing of credit
and import-restrictions, and maintenance
of a high level of employment at high
wage-rates. So, with operating costs now
steadier than at any time in the last dec-
ade, the immediate outlook for the trade
remains a rosy one, though competition
is getting more of an edge on it, with a
consequent threat to present margins.
The York organisation— parent hold-
ing co. and its operating subsidiary, York
Motors Pty.—has- a firm grip on a large
section of the market. The subsidiary
holds franchises in N. S. Wales for Morris
and Chrysler cars and trucks, and for
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Singer, Studebaker
and Willys cars, as well as for Fargo
trucks and Ansaldo tractors. In Queens-
land its agencies include Austin, Rolls-
Royce, Willys and Reo vehicles, and
Cletrac (Oliver) tractors and Britstand
and other earthmoving equipment. Inci-
dentally, the Austin and Morris motor
cos. in England merged their interests in
a new co., British Motor Corp., Ltd., in
1952. The combined organisation is now
fourth-largest motor-manufacturer in the
world.
The agencies for Morris and Austin
vehicles, which are among the four best-
sellers on the local market, are the money-
spinners. The co.’s turnover isn’t stated
in the published accounts, but there was
an overall drop of 11 p.c. in new registra-
tions of Morris and Austin vehicles in.
N. S. Wales and Queensland during 1953,
as the following table (Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures) shows:
Year, Dec. 31,
f A -)- Increase
1952. 1953. Decrease
N. S. Wales:
Morris cars .. 5140 3609 1531
Morris trucks, etc. 1470 1521 + 51
Queensland:
Austin cars .. 1119 1471 + 352
Austin trucks, etc. 1399 1325 74
Total vehicles .. 9128 7926 1202
The chairman explains the year’s diffi-
culties thus;
During the third quarter activities
were greatly affected by shortage of stock,
mainly due to the impact of restricted
sterling quotas and to changes in
models. As a result of these short supplies
we accumulated a bank of orders from
customers which are now being steadily
fulfilled. Since the close of the financial
year supplies have been more readily obtain-
able, and deliveries exceed the comparable
period of last year.
The slip in gross earnings (£1,592,941)
•was £346,564. But savings in exes.
(£957,006, down £100,585) and in tax-
provision (£222,835, down £178,558)
reduced the net contraction to £67,421;
Parent and Subsidiary.
Year. t Dividends—— x To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1949.. 376,996 20 80,000 296,996 597,885
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. .. 497,885
Reduction Intangibles, £lO2O 498,905
Reserves capitalised, £BO,OOO .. 418,905
1950.. 995,569 25 149,000 846,569 1,265,474
Added intangibles, £l4BO .. .. 1,264,044
1951.. 929,256 30 204,000 725,256 1,989,300
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B .. .. 1,969,252
1952.. 480,521 30 223,833 256,688 2,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 .. .. 2,226,629
1953.. 413,100 80 272,000 141.100 2,367.729
* After deducting intangibles, written out of
accounts in 1953.
The £413,100 of profit claimed was equal
to 45.5 p.c. on capital as against 53, 136.7,
146.4, 94.2, 83.2 and 65.9 p.c. back to
1947 —in 1952 shareholders put up
£226,666 of fresh capital at par. On
capital and reserves combined the year’s
profit was 12.6 p.c. For the third year in
succession the div. was kept at 30 p.c.,
of which 5 p.c. is called bonus.
Property purchases and sales in Syd-
ney (connected with showrooms) added
£139,025 net to the book-value of free-
holds, etc.; —
Consolidated Figures.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £680,000 £906,668 £906,666
Reserves .. 1,970,730 2,226,704 2,367,729
Creditors, etc. . 2,762,699 654,033 1,023,683
Tax provision .. 763,842 562,090 223,746
Staff fund ~ 20,000 20,000 25,000
£6,197,271 £4,369,493 £4,546,824
Freeholds, etc. 320,648 457,840 596,865
Plant .. .. 111,089 169,680 158,983
Stocks ~ .. 3,575,845* 2,559,068* 2,452,525*
Debtors .. 1,061,445* 989.428 J 1,007,319*
Investments .. 70,209 68,210 68,177
Cash . . ~ 1,056,605 124,508 262,952
Goodwill .. 1,430 764
£6,197,271 £4,369,498 £4,546.824
•After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
t After deducting specific reserve, £50,000.
Payment of tax-liabilities reduced pro-
vision therefore by £338,344, while the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
increased by £369,650. The contraction in
stocks (down £106,540) and growth in
book-debts (up £17,891) reflect the better
trading toward the close of accounts.
The cash holding was strengthened by
£138,449. The more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£2,518,547) was £13,461 stronger,
despite the addition to freeholds, etc.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the f.-p. £1 ords. at 675. (535. 3d.
a year ago) to return 8.9 p.c. on a 30 p.c.
distribution, or 7.4 p.c. should the rate
drop to 25 p.c. Net tangible cover is
725. 3d.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
A PROFITABLE venture, whose post-
war expansion has been marked.
Those on the register have shared in the
prosperity and the outlook remains an
encouraging one. The operating sub-
sidiary (Waters Trading Co.) took over
in 1929 the business founded by C. S.
Waters early in this century. It imports
Eastern produce, exports Australian pro-
ducts, mills rice, peas and barley, grinds
spices and vends coir-mats, rugs, blinds,
etc.
The public became interested in 1938,
and for the 14 years to 1951 divs. aver-
aged 13| p.c. Over the same period paid
capital climbed from £96,200 to £153,870
—£32,665 of the difference was bonus-
scrip—and reserves advanced from
£26,780 to £211,035. The 1951 profit was
equal to 49 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 71.4, 40.7, 29.4 and 19.4 p.c.
back to 1947.
The present holding co. was formed in
Nov., 1951. It bought all the 153,870 f.-p.
£1 shares in the trading co. (now a wholly-
owned subsidiary) for £615,487, payable
in its own f.-p. £1 shares. The price
exceeded the book-value of net tangibles
acquired by £210,000 and the deal was
equivalent to a four-for-one bonus share-
issue. Though the div. was lowered from
17y p.c. to 6 p.c., and remained steady,
with wide margins, for the two years to
1953, the 6 p.c. was equal to 24 p.c. on the
trading co.’s capital.
Pleasing, too, is the comparative
evenness of profits during 1952 and 1953
—when a heavy load of stocks and book-
debts were lightened without mishap and
the outside debt reduced —and their
remarkable resilience last term:
Waters Trading 00., Ltd.
Feb. 28, Profit. , Dividends •, Reserves.
£ £/ £*
1950 .. 86,596 171 p.c. = 21.211 196,584
Reserves capitalised, £32,665.. 163,919
1951 .. 73,227 171 p.c. = 26,111 211,035
From assets revaluation, £14,000 225,035
Waters Holdings, Ltd.,
and Subsidiary.
March 31, Deficit.
To share capital, £461,610 .. 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 .. 243,282
1952 .. 72,282 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 7 , R 9
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 j
To staff fund, £2600 .. .. * -ino97R
1954 .. 107,440 71 p.c. = 46,162 5 U ’
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts costs were steadier, busi-
ness on the produce side was well-main-
tained, and turnover in the floor-coverings
and textile section increased. Also the
two rice-milling concerns in which the
co. holds a substantial interest —one in
the Murray River Valley and the other
in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area —
had another successful year.
After allowing £3931 (down £920) for
depreciation, £58,000 (down £2000) for
taxation and handing the staff a bonus,
net earnings took a leap of £28,048,
reaching a record £107,440. That was
17.7 p.c. on capital as against 12.8 p.c.
and 11.7 p.c. for the two preceding years.
So the lift in the div. from 6 p.c. to 7\
p.c. was a comfortable matter, and the
£58,778 that remained (after sending
£2500 to the staff fund) reduced the
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books to £109,270 at Feb.
28 last.
The whole financial structure has been
brought into better balance and the liquid
position strengthened;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £615,487 £615,487 £615,487
Reserves .. .. 2,019 41,946 100,724
Creditors, etc. .. 851,438 307,122 281,958
Final div. .. 18,465 18,465 27,697
£1,487,409 £983,019 £1,025,866
Freeholds .. 193,698 234,891 284,891
Plant, etc. .. 60,217 74,891 77,514
Shareholdings .. 34,807 34,807 58,931
Stock .. .. 668,969 294,018 248,326
Book debts .. 318,996 134,409 184,180
Cash and bonds .. 722 3 12,024
Intangibles .. 210,000 210,000 210,000
£1,487,409 £983,019 £1,025,866
Last term’s reduction of £45,692 in stocks
was accompanied by growths of £49,771
in book-debts, £24,124 in shareholdings
and £12,021 in cash, etc., as well as by
a cut of £25,164 in the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. The improvement
in tiie more-or-less liquid surplus
(£144,107) was £31,264.
The experimental rice project in the
West Kimberley district (W.A.), in which


ELECTRIC SUPPLY UNIT
FOB SALE
“Alternator, comprising Gardner
Diesel 60 Horse Power Engine,
direct coupled to 50 K.Y.A. alter-
nator. Fitted with self-starter; suit-
able for large farm. Standard supply
voltage and frequency. Excellent con-
dition. £1,050. Inspect at 113 Palmer
Street, Bast Sydney. Aston Electrical
Products Pty. Ltd. Phone FA7057.”
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOM 4
OSIIUJVA\
» mm. *.
BUI'S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
FURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”. BRISBANE
Public Notice
LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED.
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND NO. 78
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Dfrectors have declared an
INTERIM DIVIDEND in respect of
the year ended JUNE 30, 1954, of
NINEPENCE sterling per share less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
NINE SHILLINGS in the £, equiva-
lent to FOUR DECIMAL POINT
-NINE FIVE PENCE sterling per
share, payable MAY 25, 1954.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from April 28 to 30, 1954, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on APRIL
28, 1954.
It has been decided in future to
consider one INTERIM PAYMENT
only in addition to the final dividend
and the above dividend is equal to the
total of the two interim dividends
paid in respect of the last financial
year.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED,
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
JfJte ALL-BRITISH
4s*n# AU’Diuiiin
■ OTUtXUI
gbuort
£
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & COL UO. LONDON
From
25/-
to
65/-
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Aon.
Missing Beneficiaries
ESTATE of WALTER MCFARLANE.
Will MALCOLM W. McFARLANE, born
in Scotland on 28th October, 1895, son
of Malcolm W. McFarlane and Margaret
Ami Carnegie W. McFarlane (formerly
Bruce), or any person knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE. 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK HENRY DAWES late of
Auburn. —TAKE NOTICE that YALERIE
DAWES has filed a Petition for Divorce
number 4670 of 1962 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause for 3
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the
twelfth day of July 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
LEWIS O. ABIGAIL, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.—
J, DOUQHAN, Registrar.
PROGRESS
AND
sdf
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metro politan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO-DAY’S PROTECTION-TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
ENGLISH ELECTRIC COMPANY
Record Turnover —Export Problems
MEANS TO IMPROVE COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC POSITION
The 35th annual general meeting
of The English Electric Company,
Ltd., was held on March 17 in
London, England. _ _ _ T
Sir George H. Nelson, F.C.G.L,
M.l.Mech.E., M.I.E.E. (Chairman and
Managing Director), in the course
of his speech, said:
Once again I am able to announce
a further substantial increase both
in production and turnover which
fully Justifies the additional manu-
facturing facilities already in opera-
tion and further extensions at pre-
sent in hand.
Orders in our books ensure the
maintenance of our 1953 volume in
1954, but, while home orders in
1953, as a result of marketing our
new products, exceed those of 190-.,
competition from overseas manufac
turers in the export markets for our
well established products has
greatly increased, prices and con-
tract conditions are much less attrac-
tive, and the volume of orders for
export markets in 1953 has fallen by
comparison with 1952.
There is a net trading balance,
before taxation, of £4,779,920 com
pared with £4,359,034 in 1952, an
increase of 9.6 per cent.
THE ECONOMIC POSITION
In looking to the future, I still
believe, in spite of greatly increased
competition in overseas markets,
that if we maintain our efforts the
economic position of the country can
continue to improve by the follow-
ing means: (1) By maintaining our
technical lead, (2) by increasing pro-
duction, (3) by providing a lower
cost and (4) by providing incentives
for extra output.
The management of industry must
give their workpeople every oppor-
tunity to, earn reward for extra
effort, for increases in wages unre-
lated to output make no contribution
to the improvement of the economic
position of the worker or of the
country.
The English Electric companies
have not hesitated to send out to
Canada, Australia and South Africa
our most able engineers _ and ad-
ministrators ; some on visits and
some for more permanent tasks to
help develop in those countries the
technical skill in production for
which the names of English Electric,
Napier and Marconi are famous. In
pursuance of our belief _in the
potentialities of the Dominion of
Canada we have taken the oppor-
ttmity which arose last year of re-
uniting the Canadian Marconi Com-
pany with our group.
CANADIAN MARCONI COMPANY
During the year we had the oppor-
tunity of purchasing the control ot
the Canadian Marconi Company.
This transaction means that the his-
toric association between the Eng-
lish and Canadian Marconi Com-
panies has been restored and the
Canadian daughter company will
receive every sort of assistance to
expand the range and scale of its
products in the interests of Canada.
EXPORT BUSINESS
Our Company, as exhorted by suc-
cessive Governments, has made every
endeavour to expand its overseas
business to meet our country’s need,
by entering markets in which we
have hitherto taken no direct part,
and nothing has given us greater
satisfaction and stimulation than the
receipts of orders in the United
States of America.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Expenditure on research and de-
velopment in our normal business is
even greater than in previous years
and continues also to be maintained
at a very high figure in the defence
The programme for the extension
and improvement of our manufactur-
ing facilities to ensure our ability
to offer the world competitive de-
livery of our products has continued
in 1953. . . ~
The Chairman, in reviewing the
outstanding engineering events of
1953, stated:
THE CANBERRA: You will have
shared the pride of every employee
of this company in the continued
achievement of the “Canberra jet
bomber, which, since I addressed
you in March last year, has set up
six new world records.
WATER TURBINES: At present
we have orders for 37 major units
totalling over a million horsepower.
TRACTION: This year’s traction
production includes 25 streamlined
passenger or freight 2,400 h.p. elec-
tric locomotives with rheostatic
braking for the Victoria Government
Railway, Autralia. They are giving
every satisfaction in service.
In the diesel-electric field 10-
1500 h.p. locomotives powered by
the company’s 12SVT engine have
been shipped to the Queensland
Government Railways and are work-
ing between Brisbane and Cairns, a
run of 1,000 miles in each direction.
STEEL WORKS EQUIPMENT:
Among the important steel works
eauipment commissioned overseas
during the year were a 20,000 h.p.
twin-drive for a hot reversing mill
in Canada, replacing a steam engine,
and a third equipment of the same
rating in Australia. '
MINING EQUIPMENT: Among
the more important activities or our
mining division during the year were
A C winders commissioned in the
Northern and North-Western Divi-
sions of the National Coal Board,
one of which is rated at 1,038 h.p.,
and a Ward Leonard winder for
the Norseman Goldmines, Ltd., of
A MARINE EQUIPMENT: In the
marine field we supplied the com-
plete twin screw diesel-electric pro-
pulsion machinery for the Port
Phillip Sea Pilots Association’s new
pilot vessel Wyuna, which completed
successful trials in August last. The
ship, which is in service, oft Mel-
bourne, has a total propulsion power
of 1,400 h.p. divided between two
screws at 150 r.p.m.
OTHER ELECTRICAL PLANT;
A valuable export contract commis-
sioned during the year covers a
30,000 kw. frequency changer con-
verting from 22,000 volts, three
phase, 50 cycles, to 20,000 volts, three
phase, 25 cycles. This set is believed
to be the largest of its type m the
world, and has been installed in a
power station in Melbourne, Aus-
tr SWITCHGEAR: We have commis-
sioned extra high voltage airblast
circuit breakers in Canada, Tasmania
and for the B.E.A. Large oil cir-
cuit-breaker installations have also
been commissioned at home and in
various parts of the world, including
Australia, India, South Africa and
Kuwait.
TRANSFORMERS. The trans-
former department has been success-
ful in securing business from all
parts of the world.
The report and accounts were
adopted.
the co. is interested, has had
limited success with a trial plant-
ing, good seasonal rains have
fallen, and this year’s operations
should show whether rice can be
grown commercially in that
area.
There is nothing in sight at
the moment to suggest a reces-
sion in net earnings. The market
prices the f.-p. £1 shares at
255. 9d. (20s. 9d. a year ago) to
return 5.8 p.c. on a p.c. diy.
basis. Net tangible cover is
16s. sd.
Dearer Gold —Sometime?
A great deal has been said and
written.in recent years about the
need for an increase in the
official international (dollar)
price of gold. The man who
played the biggest part in launch-
ing the campaign in the late
1940’s was South Africa’s
Finance Minister, Mr. Havenga,
and Australia supported him.
However, the International
Monetary Fund and the U.S.
have failed to take steps to bring
about the desired adjustment,
and Mr. Havenga’s more recent
utterances on the subject have
been in a minor key.
Last year Britain’s Chancellor
of the Exchequer, Mr. Butler,
asked the U.S. Government to
lift the dollar price of the yellow
metal as a necessary part of the
British Commonwealth plan for
an early restoration of sterling
convertibility. His request bore
no fruit, and he, too, is now
soft-pedalling the question.
Does this mean that the cam-
paign for an increase in the
dollar price of gold has failed,
and been abandoned? The only
hope that it might not seems to
lie in the fact that last year the
International Monetary Fund
sponsored publication of Mr.
Roy Harrod’s paper on the
“Imbalance of International
Payments,” in which the disad-
vantages of leaving the gold-price
at its present level were stressed.
The inference is, of course, that
the Fund has some sympathy with
this argument, and that sooner or
later the U.S. will join in an
international agreement to raise
the world price of gold. At the
moment it looks as though it
might be later rather than sooner.
Uranium
The Administration in the
Northern Territory has just
removed Government restrictions
from large areas covering two
uranium finds by the Bureau of
Mineral Resources at Katherine
and Coronation Hill, and there
has been a rush to take up leases
—five have been applied for at
Katherine and one at Coronation
Hill.
Also uranium - prospecting
rights in the Territory (exact
location not mentioned)''"were
recently granted to the big
London-controlled Rio Tinto
Co., which holds extensive
copper and other interests in
Spain, the U.S. and Africa.
Thus is the Federal Govern-
ment encouraging private enter-
prise to hunt for and develop
uranium deposits in areas under
its control. In South Australia
the State Government has not yet
given similar encouragement to
joint-stock undertakings to
search for and develop uranium-
bearing areas there.
A further interesting develop-
ment is the announcement that
the Rum Jungle uranium field
(NT.), which is being developed
on Government account, is now
to be worked extensively by
open-cut methods instead of
deep-mining. The switch will
involve diversion of the East
Finnis River, and is therefore
likely to be expensive. It also
emphasises the fact that prospect-
ing for, and the mining of,
uranium are full of technical and
practical difficulties.
Geiger-counter clicking can
result from minerals such as
monazite, one of the thorium
group, which carries a high radio-
active element. Also, a high
Geiger count could be due to
uranium radiation from ore giv-
ing little chemical assay result,
such as is said to have occurred at
Lake Dundas (W.A.). The point
is that you can’t sell radiation ;
there must be some actual
mineral which can be separated
and sold before a deposit
becomes of real commercial
value.
Blue Spec* N.L.
On May 6 shareholders in the
ill-fated Blue Spec, on the
Pilbara field (W.A.), are to be
asked to agree to another recon-
struction of the co, in order to
provide an additional £55,200 of
fresh share capital to buy more
plant, and so swell output and
reduce unit costs.
The intention is to form a new
co., Blue Spec, N.L., with a
nominal capital of £1,000,000 in
ss. shares of which 702,000 full>-
paids are to be handed out, one
for every two now held. A
further 736,000 contribs. (of
which 36,000 are reserved for
application by the mine staff) are
to be offered in the same ratio,
payable Is. 6d. (including pre-
payment of Is. call) on applica-
tion. The new co. would thus
kick off with an issued capital of
£360,000 in ss. shares, with
3s. 6d. at call on 736,000 of them.
The board says it will not be
necessary to call more than
Is. 6d. a share on the contribs.
A recent loan of £23,000 from
the Westralian Government
failed to put the co. on its feet.
Delays in rehabilitation work at
the mine are claimed to be
beyond the management’s
control. Now hopes are that a
bigger mill throughput and
further reorganisation will
enable the co, to operate on “a
more economical basis.”
Portion of the treatment-plant
is to be moved to Perth, where
leaching and differential flotation
of concentrates is expected to
result in considerable savings in
exes.
One of the co.’s troubles has
been that the antimony in the
ore has been a metallurgical
nuisance from the start. In June,
1953, ore blocked was officially
claimed to have a recoverable
value of £970,000, and that it
could be extracted and treated
at a cost of £370,000 over a
period of 2j years. The co. s
existing f.-p. ss. shares, which
reached a peak of Bs. 6d. in 1953,
recently sold at 4s. 7d.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., has
applied for a lease of a 46-acre-
prospecting claim in the Mt.
Isa district (N.Q.), where radio-
active ore has been found. A
hand-picked sample recently
assayed 1.2 p.c. uranium oxide.
Too much notice, however, need
not be taken of results obtained
from any hand-picked specimen.
Until a lot more prospecting and
development work has been done,
it is impossible to estimate the
quantity of radioactive ore in
the abovementioned lease, or
whether it is likely to become a
commercially payable propo-
sition.
* * * *
Commenting on the presence
of uranium ore on the Chillagoe
field, North Queensland (B.
31/3/’54), A. S. Armstrong, who
used to be chief metallurgist at
the Chillagoe smelters until 1912,
when A. T. Allman was the chief
chemist, thinks the Etheridge field
has possibilities, especially at the
Percy and Gilberton, or southern,
end, which is known to contain
a complex of mineral deposits.
During World War I, while chief
metallurgist to Rhodesian Broken
Hill (Northern Rhodesia), Mr.
Armstrong identified sample ore
from the Belgian Congo as radio-
active. This Congo deposit is
now the world’s richest source
of uranium.
» * • ♦
In a report to Norseman Gold
on the Dundas uranium field
(W.A.), consulting geologist
H. J. C. Conolly pointed out that
there were two prospects of note.
The first was an extensive area
of brecciated granite in which
trenching had disclosed a yellow
uranium mineral; here the expec-
tation is that, owing to surface
leaching, the grade of the deposit
will improve with depth. The
second was on Lake Dundas,
where a high degree of radio-
activity was found over a distance
of miles. It is thought that this
radioactivity reflects the decom-
position products of uranium,
which suggests that there is, or
was, in the area somewhere a
considerable field of uranium,
though it is recognised that this
uranium may have been dispersed
in solution through the ground-
water system.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Sprays of heather, and flowers in the
school colors, decorated the official table
for the ball of the Scots College O.B.U.
held at the Trocadero on Friday in aid
of the College War Memorial Fund, Cut-
out figures of the Grenadier Guards 12ft.
high stood round the walls, and flowers
beautifully ornamented the tables for the
1150 guests.
In the official party were Mr. Justice
Ash burner and Mrs. Ashburner, Dr. and
Mrs. George Bell, the Principal of the
College, Mr. A. K. Anderson, and Mrs.
Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Burbury,
Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Erby. Among the
guests were Dr. and Mrs. G. F. Elliott,
Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Reddell, Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Dunn, Mr. and Mrs. J. B.
Maltman.
As in former years the college pipers
drew a large < crowd when they played
outside the Trocadero, and later they
started the ball off with a waltz. The
evening sped along: with great liveliness
and merriment, concluding with Scots
war-cries (though what the Scots wha hae
wi’ Wallace bled would have thought of
one such as “Boom chica, boom chica,
boom, boom, boom” it is hard to
imagine).
☆ ☆ ☆
Two musicians were welcomed by the
ladies’ committee of the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra last week —world-
famous pianist Solomon (not a stranger
to Australia, of course) and Leon Goos-
sens, oboist and brother of Eugene Goos-
sens, who is paying his first visit here.
When Solomon assured Mr. Goossens
that he would have a good time in Syd-
ney Mr. Goossens interpolated “I’ve
already started.” Mrs. Hope Gibson
received the guests at the reception in
the A.B.C. Theatrette. They included
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Post, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Moses, Mrs. Frank Louat, Mrs.
Rupert Scammell, Mrs. A. H. Chartres,
Mr. R. J. F. Boyer and Mr. and Mrs,
E. Lashmar.
☆ * *
The Union Club party which tradi-
tionally follows Ladies’ Day of the Easter
Racing Carnival was attended this year
by well on 1000 guests, who were enter-
tained at cocktails and buffet from a
marquee on the lawns surrounding the
club. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Henry White (Mudgee), Mr. and
Mrs. Douglas Munro (Merriwa), Mr.
and Mrs. Jim Ryrie, Mr. and Mrs. Chip
Hill, Mr. and Mrs. Alan Copeland, Mr
and Mrs. John Goodall, Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Lamb, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Parry-
Okeden, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bragg
(Aberdeen), Mr. and Mrs. Brian Crowley
(Merrywinebone). Hitherto, this Easter
party has been the only occasion on
which women were admitted to the
Union Club, but it has since been
announced that a Ladies’ Night will in
future be held there every Saturday, a
notable departure from tradition, but a
very welcome one no» doubt.
☆ ☆ ☆
News of young Australians abroad is
that Robin Lovejoy, the talented pro-
ducer and theatrical-designer, who has
had great difficulty in showing his work
in England, is at last to design the decor
and costumes for the Kew Theatre, run
now by another Australian, Frank
Thring. The production which is to give
Robin his chance is “Othello.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. J. N. Stephen, organising secretary
of the Dr. Barnardo’s Homes in London,
spoke about the work of the Homes at
a meeting of the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the
Royal Empire Society during the week.
Mr. Stephen, who is touring Australia
with the object of obtaining help in rais-
ing funds for the Homes (the three in
Australia alone require £40,000 a year
to maintain), said that for 88 years Dr.
Barnardo’s Homes had kept the motto
“the ever-open door” so that no destitute
child was ever refused admission. Lady
Berryman, chairman of the Ladies’
Auxiliary, presided at the meeting and
with her as hostesses were Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan, Mrs. Allan Williams, and
Mrs. R. Scammell, as deputy for Mrs. G.
Halloran, who was ill. Following Mr.
Stephen’s talk, the members saw three
films: “The Road to Canterbury,” “The
Land of the Hornbill” and “The Way to
Wimbledon.”
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Motrice of
Papanui, Merriwa, left in the Strath-
eden on Saturday for Bombay, whence
they will fly to Rome, tour Italy,
Switzerland and France and then go on
to England. They expect to be away
for about six months. Their daughter
Margaret and son Bill came to Sydney
during the week to farewell them with
their daughter Judith and will return to
Merriwa later this week.
Mrs. Philip Berry-Smith of Pott’s Point
has been prominent at most of the Easter
Week festivities in Sydney, including the
Town and Country Ball at Prince’s, for
which she was a member of the com-
mittee. At the races on Ladies’ Day Mrs.
Berry-Smith wore an attractive cyclamen
velor hat with the fashionable forward
line and a smart navy suit. Photograph
by Hugh Spencer.
Colorful in her scarlet dress and
golden sari, Mrs. R, B. Manikam of
India was welcomed to Sydney by the
president of Y.W.C.A., Mrs. C. P. John-
son, and members of the board of direc-
tors at a reception at the “Y” on Thurs-
day. Mrs. Manikam is the wife of the
Rev. Dr. Manikam, who is the East Asian
Secretary of the International Missionary
Council and the World Council of
Churches. She has been actively con-
nected with the Y.W.C.A. in India, has
travelled widely in a number of East
Asian countries, and has worked among
the church women of those lands. She
is a graduate of the Women’s Christian
College, Madras, and later received her
Bachelor of Science degree in the U.S.A.
Among those who greeted Mrs. Manikam
were Mrs. Neville Harding, Miss Isabel
Nesbitt (who has been a member of the
“Y” board for 42 years), Mrs. H.
Ambrose and Mrs. F. D. Stafford,
* it it
Mr. Justice Clancy and Mrs. Clancy
were present at the special preview of
“Pick-up Girl” at the Independent
Theatre last week, and Mr. Frank
Murphy, magistrate of the Children’s
Court, was another expert and interested
guest. This play about child delinquency
in America is set in a court-room, and
is so frank in its evidence that for a
long time it was banned from public per-
formance in England. It was only after
the late Queen Mary saw it (at the age
of 79) that it was deemed fit by the Lord
Chamberlain to be seen by the English
public. The production at the Inde-
pendent is the uncut one and certainly
provides a few shocks and sensations.
* ☆ *
What villains scientists can be! Not
content with inventing the atom-bomb,
some cads among them, experimenting
with detergents, put some of the stuff in
a duck pond and all the ducks sank. In
a world where ducks can’t swim surely
nothing is secure.
it it it
The Sydney University Settlement Ball
is to be held this year on Friday, June
11, in the presence of the Governor-
General, Sir William Slim, and Lady
Slim, who will receive the debutantes in
the Great Hall. Chairman of the ball-
committee is Mrs. J. Macdonald Holmes,
with Miss Jean McColl as hon. secretary
and Mrs. J. C. Fischer hon. treasurer.
The matron-of-honor will be Mrs. Roscoe
Hoyle.
* * *
Another ball to be held in June is that
of the Mater Miser icordke Hospital.
Scheduled for June 15 at the Trocadero,
the ball has for president the wife of
North Sydney’s member in the State
Parliament, Mrs. R. Maher.
MELBOURNE
Anzac Day, contrary to the weather-
man’s forecast, was clear, calm and
sunny, and in the early-morning sun-
light women of the Army, Navy and
R.A.A.F. nursing services, representatives
of the Queen Alexandra Royal Army
Nursing Service, Sailors and Soldiers
Fathers and Mothers’ Association and
many other organisations gathered at the
Edith Cavell Memorial in St. Kilda-road
for their annual service.
First to place a wreath at the base
of the statue was the Lady Mayoress
(Mrs. R, H. Solly), who was followed
by Lady Herring. Mrs. Roy Chambers
represented the Returned Nurses’ Club,
and others to place wreaths were Col.
E. J. Bowes, Matron-in-Chief of the
Royal Australian Army Nursing Corps ;
Major Brindley, Principal Matron of the
R.A.A.N.C.; and the representative of
the Imperial Ex-Service Women’s Asso-
ciation, Miss L, Foster, O.B.E.
Former Matron-in-Chief of the
R.A.A.N.C., Miss M. Sage, was at the
service, and also there were Betty Jef-
freys, Vivien Bullwinkel and Beryl Wood-
bridge ; these three were among those
captured by the Japanese and were
prisoners-of-war until the enemy was
defeated. They wore the trim grey uni-
form of the R.A.A.N.C., as did three
former comrades in the 9th A.G.H.,
Misses Holding, Crameri and Adcock.
The service, organised by the Edith
Cavell Memorial Trustees, was con-
ducted by L. H. McBrien, O.B.E., chair-
man of the trust. Brigadier W. S. John-
ston, C.B.E., D.S.O., M.C., E.D., M.D.,
gave the short but impressive address in
honor of the members of the nursing
services who died during the war.
Mother of two children and wife of
one of the directors of J.C.W., Mrs.
Frank Tait, of Toorak, is once again
organising her Mother's Day concert at
the Town Hall on May 23. As soprano
Viola Wilson site charmed many Gil-
sullivan audiences, and after she married
her lovely voice was often heard at
charity functions. Nowadays Mrs . Tait
is content to be an organiser.
Fellow - officers of the bridegroom
formed a guard-of-honor outside Xavier
College Chapel when Hortense Lindner
was married to Captain lan Wilton. The
bride, daughter of Mrs. A. M. Lindner,
of Holland, and the late Mr. Lindner,
was given away by the groom’s uncle.
Colonel D. G. McKenzie. The gown
she wore had a V-necked bodice of white
guipure lace and a bouffant skirt of
layers of white nylon tulle. Her short
tulle veil was held with a tiny cloche and
she carried a bouquet of gardenias. The
bridegroom’s sister, Mrs. Dick Doyle,
was matron-of-honor and Elinor Sharp,
of Brisbane, was bridesmaid; they wore
full-skirted frocks of white organdie and
their tulle veils were held with small
frilled caps of tulle. The tiny flower
girls, Edwina and Diana Doyle, wore
white organdie frocks tied with sea-green
taffeta sashes and their short veils were
held with circlets of rosebuds. Three-
year-old Robin Doyle was pageboy. The
bridegroom is the only son of Mrs. Eric
A. Wilton of Toorak and the late Major
Wilton. Major Terence Tripp, of Sydney,
was best man and Major Robert Law-
rence groomsman. Reception was at the
Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs. Dick
Doyle.
☆ ☆ *
Director of the Pilgrim Theatre, Mrs.
Maie Hoban, who has returned from an
overseas trip during which she attended
a special course in drama and television
in England and went to the U.S. and
the Continent, was guest at a tea-party
at the Oriental. Mrs. Hoban wore a
suit of deep-amethyst wool which had a
pleated skirt, and a small hat of black
velvet. The five hostesses were Mrs.
Nelson Wellington, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs.
G. Newton, Mrs. W. Carnegie and Miss
I. Blackey. Among the guests were
Senator Ivy Wedgwood, Mrs. John Cain,
Mrs. Leslie Leigh (Mrs. Hoban’s
daughter), Mrs. D. E. Hoban, Tana
Eyvans and Bettine Faulkhead.
* u ☆
Autumn leaves mingled with berries
and bowls of shaded pink gladioli decor-
ated the reception-rooms of the Toorak
home of the Consul-General of the
Netherlands, Colonel F. H. Wright, and
Mrs. Wright when they gave a late-after-
noon party in honor of Commander F.
Bruyn and officers of the Dutch frigate
Van Kinsbergen. Mrs. Wright chose a
frock of black-spotted maize silk. Mrs.
Ronald Marriott, who assisted her mother
and father in entertaining the guests,
wore a midnight-blue tailored frock.
Lieut.-General Sir Sidney Rowell was
accompanied by Lady Rowell, who wore
with a primrose-yellow faille frock a
small black velvet hat. Their daughter
Rosslyn chose a pale-lime self-patterned
tie-silk frock and a tiny hat of black
velvet.
With Commander T. Brunsting, Naval
Attache of the Netherlands, was his wife,
in a slim black frock and small white
cocktail hat embroidered in gold. A
grey, pink-spotted faille cocktail frock
was the choice of Mrs. Heathcote Wright.
Mrs. John Chaldjian’s suit was of corn-
yellow shantung. Mrs. Harry Wright
chose petunia-pink silk for her ensemble.
A small amethyst melusine hat topped the
grey-and-white-flecked nylon wool frock
worn by Mrs. Cedric Paynter, Mrs. R.
MacPherson, wife of the U.S. Naval
Attache wore navy-and-white-spotted
silk with a small navy blue hat.
☆ ☆ *
Usually parades of swimsuits are
viewed when the weather’s bleak, so it
was a pleasant experience for mannequins
to parade in their scanty garb in warm
autumn weather. The makers of the
Scamp swimsuits and beach-wear have this
season produced a new “iced” fabric ;
the process gives a crispness of finish, and
the fabric is crease-resistant.
This “icing” of material was used with
great, effect in a new American fabric,
chrome spun-taffeta. Checks and stripes,
particularly the mattress-stripe, and plain
pastel materials were used to fashion not
only smart beach-wear but swimsuits.
The newest note in swimsuits for next
season is the bloomer-suit, and, carrying
the bloomer theme even further, there is
the doubloon-suit cut on the lines of those
worn by an Elizabethan gallant. This is
a style suitable only for the girls with slim
hips, as it does have a broadening effect.
Printed chrome spun-taffeta fashioned
a doubloon-suit with pleats slashed to
show a peep of black faille. The strap-
less bra.-top was shirred and the long
torso has a low-slung waist, from which
puff the bloomer-pants. Other bloomer-
suits were worn under matching skirts.
Black-and-white hairline satin lastex was
used for an attractive one-piece suit;
“iced” blue poplin made a mannish
blouse, and this was worn with heavy
white pique shorts, which featured deep
thigh pockets; black-and-white striped
denim pants were topped with an “iced”
blouse of white waffle pique. Nylon
taffeta, eiasticised sharkskin and satin •
were used for many other smart swim-
suits.
☆ ☆ *
Many guests from country centres
were among the dancers at the annual
ball of the Metropolitan and Country
Trotting Association, set in a wonder-
fully flower-decorated St. Kilda Town
Hall. And, of course, racing was the
main motif for the decorations. There
were trophies and miniature racing-
sulkies, and thousands of balloons bear-
ing the imprint of noted pacers were
dotted about the ballroom. Chairman of
the M. and C.T.A., Mr. A. A. Lord, re-
ceived the official guests, assisted by his
wife, whose mist-blue lace gown was
mounted on matching taffeta.


For cafes, clubs,
hails, canteens
.. . and homes
Here’s a comfortable
chair, designed for rapid
stacking away when
clear floor space is
needed. Hundreds
can be spread for
seating in a matter
of minutes and as
quickly stacked
away.
30
CHAIRS
IN THE
SPACE
OF
*
ds
from
£3.5.0
in Sydney area
STAK-A-BYE
CHAIRS wim
or without arms,
are of tubular steel
frame, with weather-
resisting wrinkle plastic covered
steel or upholstered seat. Feet
rubber shod. Choice of colours
available. Contact your furni-
ture supplier, or write direct
for Folder ps ,or name of
nearest Distributor (all States).
SEBEL
STEEL
FURNITURE
SEBELS (AUST.) LIMITED
96 Canterbury Road, Bankstown,
N.S.W.
’Phone UY 2813, 3895.
PIANO FOB SALE
Concert Piano by Hartmann, Berlin.
Upright I.P. Figured Italian Wal-
nut, fully reconditioned. Price £95.
Call 48 Carinya Avenue, Mascot,
week nights after 5 p.m.
n wbto ot the maUr, of KM Shoe PdUk.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX, 2NM, 3CV, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
MACQUARIE
CASTING service
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Maid of the
Mountains”
The National Theatre Opera
Co. has revived Frederick Lons-
dale’s ancient bromide at Mel-
bourne Princess, but it is rather
difficult in these times for an
audience to get intensely excited
at the plight of the fair Teresa,
kidnapped by the Governor of
Santo away from her boy-friend,
the brigand Baldasarre.
Although one couldn’t but
admire the courage and steadfast-
ness of that hero in impersonat-
ing the new Governor in order
to obtain diplomatic immunity
in the Governor’s palace and
rescue his girl-friend, one
couldn’t admire him for
jeopardising his mission by fall-
ing in love with the old
Governor’s daughter. Nor could
one feel any sympathy for the
fair Teresa for allowing her
jealousy to get the better of her
and betraying her lover to the
security-police of Santo.
The orchestra, under Verdon
Williams, appeared to have the
bored expressions that theatre
orchestras wear when they have
to play tunes the milk-oh used
to whistle when they were
infants, and although Stefan
Haag, as Crumpet, wore the
old green costume and carried the
umbrella left behind by the late
Leslie Holland he seemed to be
acting the part from a second-
hand description of how that dis-
tinguished comedian did it.
Miss Marie Collier is a lovely,
pure singer and a lovely natural
actress, and she simply couldn’t
help raising the role that Gladys
Moncrieff created into lofty
realms of art; but a bad picture
always looks worse in a good
light, and her distinguished effort
had that sort of effect with Max
Oldaker’s Baldasarre.
However, the show roused
nostalgic feelings in the present
commentator. There was even
the same old scenery of an
unspecified country in Southern
Europe, where things almost as
strange as have been happening
at Canberra and Darwin are said
to happen, and it hasn’t changed
in the 30 years that have elapsed
since the piece was first unfolded
to an enraptured public. Not a
tree has grown an inch taller and
the clouds are still in exactly the
same place in the incredibly blue
heavens.
Nancy Rassmusson danced
beautifully and Robert Allmann
was surprisingly funny as
General Malona, but the songs,
though tuneful, are only one
remove from hurdy-gurdy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“London Symphony”
The 1954 youth concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall opened
with an exceptionally good per-
formance by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra of the
“London Symphony” of
Vaughan Williams, under Walter
Susskind’s expert baton. It was
the conductor’s conception of
London rather than the com-
poser’s that was given, but it was
dramatic and exciting, Susskind
having a rare ability to convey
his feeling.
New Zealand pianist Richard
Farrell gave an elegant account
of himself in Beethoven’s Fourth
Concerto in G Major. He
brought deftness of touch and
appealing softness to the second
movement and, in fact, made the
whole piece sound like a gigantic
lyric,
*!♦ &
Walter Wilkinson
At Joan and Betty Rayner’s
Australian Children’s Theatre,
currently located at the Nicholas
Hall, Melbourne, Walter Wilkin-
son, an Englishman famous in
the puppet-world, is delighting
hordes of children with his hand-
puppets.
These ha.ve some affinity with
the Javanese wayang-wayang.
By a simple process with his
fingers Mr. Wilkinson makes
clowns juggle, clown and play
the accompaniments to their
songs, and it is astonishing how
he can bring Brutus and Cassius
to life in the quarrel-scene from
“Julius Caesar.”
Remarkably fresh is “Thsr-
sytes,” which was played at
Oxford University in 1537. The
kids are more interested in the
action than the words, and they
get plenty of the former, for Mr.
Wilkinson’s fingers are as
supple as a violinist’s. “The
Magic Chest” is delightful
nonsense.
+> ❖ ❖
“Another Part of the Forest”
For its first production.
Sydney Playbill Company took
on quite a task in Lillian Hell-
man’s “Another Part of the
Forest.” The play, which deals
with the earlier lives of the
Hubbard family of “The Little
Foxes,” demands a much greater
understanding of unrelenting
evil than most young amateur
actors can appreciate. 'Hie
characters simplest in conception
Lavinia (Beverley Harte) and
Birdie (Helen Duggan), were the
most convincing.
The performance was notable
for its audibility and precision
of diction, and the clipped,
accurate performances of Noella
Masson (Regina) and Marcus
Hubbard (John Cooper), though
not very subtle, gave evidence of
commendable earnestness and
industry.
£*
“Pick-up Girl”
“Pick-up Girl,” at the Inde-
pendent Theatre, North Sydney,
is more of a dramatic docu-
mentary, a cautionary tale, than
a piece of entertainment, but it
does its job of startling the social
conscience remarkably well. Set
in a children’s court in New
York, it unfolds, through the
evidence of a variety of witnesses,
the pathetic and sordid tale of a
young girl’s delinquency.
O. D. Bisset plays the judge
so well he is almost tiresomely
true to life. Margaret Roberts,
as the girl’s mother, shows
dramatic power of considerable
impact, and Claude Birman, as
the idealistic young musician,
contrives an appealing portrait of
the confidence, purity and
essential nobility of youth.
Artbursts
Contemporary Art Society
For a group given to leaping
at, if not over, the moon, the
Contemporary Art Society
submits a very tame display in
its 1954 Autumn exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
It is, indeed, very difficult to find
any evidence on the walls of that
exuberant experimenting which
one might expect from artists
who are “interested not so much
in ‘contemporary art’ as the art
of tomorrow.”
In the rather solemn confusion
of paint and passing fashions
there is a note of lightness and
freshness about the abstracts of
Margo Lewers —although her
“Composition in Red and Blue,”
bought by the N. S. Wales
Gallery, did not seem as interest-
ing to this commentator as the
reds and greens of “House Boat”
or the softer tones of “Marine
Composition.” There is some-
thing of the same touch in the
“Boy in the Bush” of Carl Plate,
and even more in Imre Szigeti’s
“Grand Cafe.”
Lyndon Dadswell shows some
familiar contorted “Drawings for
Sculpture” and Weaver Hawkins
does his money on four racing
impressions “Going Round,”
“Coming Round,” “A Fall” and
“A Win” —in which the kaleido-
scopic method doesn’t conceal
the essential posterish quality of
the designs. The Gallery bought
“Going Round,” although from
the point of view of artistic
quality it doesn’t seem to matter
much whether one falls, wins or
is coming or going.
Talkies
“An Artist with Ladies”
A very droll, very witty French
comedy, its central figure a pro-
vincial sheep-shearer who, deem-
ing his tonsorial art wasted on
sheep, moves to Paris and be-
comes a ladies’ hairdresser.
Soon he is the rage of the capital,
his salon rivalling those of the
fashion-kings in magnificence.
The shearer’s art of attracting
admiration being in no way
inferior to that of his profession,
he is kept juggling affaires at
high speed, while as a sideline
he does some Figaro-like work
settling some of his clients’
amorous perplexities.
Fernandel, the George
Formbyish French comedian,
gets his best laughs when he is
mincing from one infatuated
customer to another in his perm.-
palace, and his generally smooth
work is backed by a wide range
of expression. At Sydney Savoy.
♦t* ♦♦♦
“The Big Heat”
A well - constructed, fast-
moving crime-thriller, taut as
piano-wire throughout, about the
relentless hunting-down by a
detective-sergeant of a gang who
killed his wife by dynamiting her
car. There is a full quota of
that brutal realism which director
Fritz Lang generally handles so
expertly.
Everyone in the cast is good,
with Gloria Grahame doing out-
standing work as a gangster’s
moll who exacts fearful venge-
ance for a savagely-inflicted
facial disfigurement. At Sydney
Victory.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Knights of the Round
Table”
A sub-title for this spectacular
technicolored M.-G.-M. opus
might well have been “Some
Yankees at the Court of King
Arthur,” for Robert Taylor and
Ava Gardner have been co-
opted to bring to the days of
chivalry that accent which was
to burgeon in the New World
about 1000 years later.
But there are compensations.
One is a splendid portrayal of
the wise counsellor Merlin by the
veteran English actor Felix
Aylmer, whose voice is a delight
to hear.
The screen-play hangs to-
gether well enough, and the
battle-scenes, the joustings and
the double-handed-sword duels
are realistically done. The
dressing is superb.
Mel Ferrer is a strong and
dignified Arthur, Stanley Baker s
Modred is surly and cross-
grained, and Robert Taylor is a
manly Lancelot. Ava Gardner
nobly refrains from chewing gum
while trying to represent the
gentle Guinevere. At Sydney
St. James.
* ❖ ❖
“Island in the Sky”
A U.S. Air Force plane is
forced down in thick fog in the
wastes of Labrador, and the sub-
sequent proceedings are fairly
evenly divided between the plight
of the stranded crew and the
efforts by rescuing planes to find
them.
The film never gets beyond
mediocrity partly because of the
polyglot collection of actors as
the rescue pilots, and partly be-
cause of slackness in the handling
of some of the dramatic material.
John Wayne as the pilot of the
crippled plane does the best
work. At Sydney Victory.
❖ ❖
“Is Your Honeymoon Really
Necessary?”
A good farce has been here
murdered —all but one of the
main characters in the original
play have been altered, all to the
bad; the setting has been
changed; and third-rate wise-
cracks have been preferred to the
original witty dialogue.
A bridegroom is about to
retire on the night of his second
marriage when wife No. 1 turns
up with the information that
they aren’t legally divorced. The
mainspring of the play is the
groom’s fugitive placating of the
two women, who occupy adjacent
rooms. The sotto voce is impera-
tive, yet everyone uses booming
voices supposedly inaudible to a
woman 20ft. away.
The film is poorly directed and
poorly cast, with the exception of
Bonar Colleano, who, as the
groom, makes an entertaining
business of his dithering be-
wilderment. Greater Union
circuit.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
JARDINE’S lying on my
bed, sweating where I hurt
him, and trying to get his
breath back.
“You should of told me you
was coming,” I tell him, “and
I’d of baked a cake.”
He lies there and looks at me
and nothing I say means a thing
to him. Because of the numb-
ness in his neck and the
wrenched arm it don’t mean a
thing. He just lies there, sick.
Presently he lifts his right arm
slowly, and then lets it down
again and turns his head and
looks at it like he never seen it
before. He turns his head and
the light from the window lights
up the grey hairs he’s got and
he looks old and white and sick.
I don’t feel so cocky when I
see that. It’s like I found him
out. Like I caught him without
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
his pride or something. He goes
round this town, head of the
detectives, and he’s sure a solid
man. Only he isn’t solid now,
on my bed and hurt and old and
sick, and I don’t like it. Because
he’s pretty near old enough to
be my father. I’m no angel, but
I don’t go round doing-over old
men.
“I didn’t know it was you,” I
says. “I thought it was some
room-rat on the pinch.”
He turns and looks at me.
“You brought it on yourself,”
I says. “You got no right going
through a man’s things.”
He lifts the arm again and tries
it and his face twists.
I got nothing but water in the
room, so I make with the water
and hand him a glass. He takes it
in his left hand and drinks. He
isn’t so white now and his eyes
got some life in them.
“Delaney,” he gets out,
“I’ll”
“Pull your head in,” I says.
“I don’t know what you was
after, but I do know you got no
right to enter a man’s room and
search without a warrant. You
got nothing on me. You come
and ask to search I’d of give you
an open go. Because you got
nothing on me. I didn’t know it
was you, like I said. But that’s
your picnic, not mine, I see
anybody going my things I jump
him, quick. That’s how you got
what you got.”
He sits up on the bed. His
hat is on the floor. He sits there,
holding his right arm with his
left hand, and looks at his hat.
A long time he looks at his hat.
Then he gets off the bed and
stands a moment. He looks down
at the hat again and turns a
little and bends and tries to pick
it up with his right hand. He’s
half turned away from me, and
I watch him because there’s
something wrong, but I don't
get it. I know there’s something
wrong but I don’t get it.
Then I get it.
He ought to be reaching for
the hat with his left hand. Be-
cause that’s his good hand.
That’s what’s wrong.
Only I don’t get it in time.
Because when he straightens
up with the hat in his right hand
he’s got a gun in his left.
It’s a police automatic. Thirty-
eight. It’s in his left hand and
resting there snug against his
body and the snout of it looking
at me.
So he’s left-handed and good
with a gun in that hand. Because
it’s sitting there, snug, and the
snout on me and it don’t look
awkward but just right for me if
I make a move.
Maybe I could make a move
and beat the gun. You do six
months in the commandos makes
you good at moves against a
gun. Unarmed-combat stuff.
I’m no more than six feet from
this Jardine and he’s a solid man,
but he’s old and just been done
over, good, and not so quick as
he thinks he is. Maybe I could
make a move. There’s moves he
wouldn’t know.
But I don’t make no move.
Because he’s got nothing on me.
He’s searching my room and
got no warrant and I walk in
and go him. I don’t know he’s
Jardine when I go him. I got
a right to go anybody I find
searching my bag.
So there’s po move. Because
I could get shot if I move, and
right now he’s got no call to
shoot. He’s got no call to shoot
while I keep still. Because all
he’s got the gun for is to stand
me off. I done him over, and he
knows it and he don’t want me
doing him over again. So he
puts the gun on me to stand me
off.
“All right, Delaney,” he says.
The funny way he says it rocks
me. It’s not wild or hot. There's
no threat in it. His voice is kind
of tired and it’s like he’s giving
up. So it rocks me and I’m kind
of froze, standing there, watch-
ing him.
Then he lifts the gun and I
jump. But I’m froze just long
enough to lose that much time,
and my hand goes round the
gun-barrel too late.
Because Jardine got it into
his mouth and pulled.
I’m still holding the barrel. I
feel it jump and the sound
deafens me, and then Jardine
falls against me and folds up at
my feet.
I got some crazy notion of
holding him up by the gun-
barrel, but his weight pulls it
through my hand and I’m stand-
ing there.
There’s voices outside and
somebody opens my door and
looks in and yells. There’s more
voices and somebody comes in
and stands over Jardine and talks
at me.
I go over and sit down on the
bed.
To stop myself shaking.
Nothing I can do, only sit on
the bed to stop the shaking.
5. Arentz
CO it’s night-time, and hot,
and I’m in this room in the
police - station again. Only
Jardine isn’t with me. This is
the day after he put the gun in his
mouth and he won’t be with me
any more.
Dickens is with me. So is
Shakespeare. And two others.
They’ve flown to Murrayford
special, just to be with me.
Detective - Inspector McLardie
and Detective-Sergeant Keesing.
All the way from the C.I.D. in
the big city. Just to be with me.
They been with me since early.
Because I’m for it. Jardine is
found dead in my room with me
looking at him and a thirty-eight
police automatic lying on the
floor. There’s got to be a reason
for Jardine and I’m it. Way
they see it Jardine was a head
cop in this town, with no
worries, no reason to go to
Delaney’s room in the Crown
Hotel and bump himself off. So
Delaney’s a liar and got no alibi,
and if they got to beat it out
of him they’ll beat it out.
You’re in this game you’re on
your own. Too right, I’m on my
own. Because when Dickens and
those other village cops march
me in I get plenty worried and
send for Mellish. Mellish had
notions about Carson being no
accident and L. D. M. Mitchell
and wanted me to, stay in
Murrayford. Different now.
Mellish couldn’t care less. The
cops tell me Mellish sidesteps
it and I want help I got to get
it from the Public Defender,
But the Public Defender don’t
bail nobody out, so I’ll stay in
till he wants me. I stay in and
they go to work on me.
“We’ll go over it again,
Delaney.”
That’s McLardie. Tall, cold,
ferret-eyed. Full of fun and
games like a snake. You see
someone suck a lemon it puts
your teeth on edge. You hear
McLardie talk it’s like watching
a lemon-sucker,
“We’ll go over it again,
Delaney.”
“Before God, it’s like I said.”
“We’ll go oyer it again.”
“You got no hope of breaking
me down.”
Keesing clears his throat.
That’s so I’ll look at him. He’s
leaning forward. His face is
just outside the light. But I
know what it looks like.
I know what his fists feel like. I
got Keesing’s bruises on me. I
run into his kind before. They
hurt me but they don’t scare me
none.
“One day,” I tell his face,
“I’ll push your map through the
back of your neck.”
“Like you done poor old
Jardine,” he says, and gives me
a backhander.
Nothing I can do about it.
“You ready. Constable?”
McLardie to Shakespeare.
Shakespeare has his book open
and pen ready. He shows
McLardie the pen.
“Why did you come to
Murrayford?”
“I’ve told you.”
“Tell him again.” Keesing
gets in a short-arm jab.
“To work for Carson.”
“What kind of work?”
“I don’t know.”
“Why don’t you know?”
“He didn’t get a chance to tell
me. He was killed the night I
got here. Before I could see
him.”
“What did Jardine have on
you?”
So it’s the old switch. They
switch means they’re trying to
fog you, get you rattled.
“Whyn’t you ask this Dickens?
Ask the bloody world. Go on
asking till you’re black in the
face. He”
Keesing hit me again. Hard.
Under the shoulder-blade. I go
across the table and got to fight
for my breath.
“Hold it. Sergeant. No need
to get rough. I perfectly under-
stand how you feel about this
man. Jardine didn’t deserve to
be shot by the likes of him, but
we mustn’t forget ourselves,
Sergeant.”
“Sorry, sir. Emotion, I dare
say.”
So that’s the angle. They
make sport of me maybe I’ll do
my block and start screaming
things. That’s what they hope.
Only I didn’t shoot Jardine and
I’m awake to them. They want
to pin Jardine on me and what
I got to do is keep my block.
Till this Public Defender shows
up.
Public Defender!
“Look, Inspector. They told
me I could get help in this.
They told me the Public De-
fender would”
“I wouldn’t like his job,
Delaney. Not with your finger-
prints all over the gun. Not
with what we know about you.”
I don’t say anything. I know
that kind of talk. It’s like the
jabs they give you. Meant to
break you down. Mistake they
make is there’s nothing to break
down. Because I didn’t kill
Jardine and because Jardine had
nothing on me.
So I don’t say anything.
“What did Jardine have on
you?” McLardie says. He’s
leaning forward and put his eyes
on me. Ferret watching a rabbit.
Only I’m no rabbit.
So I don’t say anything.
“Talk, blast you!” Keesing
yells and drives a fist into my
slats.
I’m ready for it and ride it a
little. But it still hurts.
I shut my teeth and get ready
to ride another, because it’s sure
coming.
The door opens and in walks
Arentz, the desk-sergeant I
promised I’d buy a drink.
“Excuse me. Inspector,” he
says. “I heard someone call out.
I thought”
“Nothing, Sergeant,” Mc-
Lardie says, smooth. “That’s
all right. Thanks. We can
manage.”
“Oh, sorry, sir. It sounded
like a call.” Arentz turns to go
out. As he turns he sees my
face. My face is under the fight,
looking up at him. Guess it was
white and maybe strained a little
and seems I must of looked like
I was copping something.
Because Arentz stops turning
and stands there and looks at
me. He’s a fresh-faced, easy-
going sort. But he looks at me
and his face goes hard and his
eyes narrow. He leans down a
little and looks at me some more.
Then his eyes dart to Keesing
and he gives Keesing a long look.
He looks at McLardie and then
at me. He takes a deep breath.
“Are you all right, Delaney?”
he says. He’s kind of keyed up.
“Just being kicked to death,
that’s all,” I get out, and duck
sideways because I expect
Keesing to hit me.
He don’t hit me and I look at
him. He’s looking at Arentz in
a funny way.
“That’ll be all, Sergeant,”
snaps McLardie.
“Are you knocking this man
about, Inspector?”
That’s what Arentz said. He’s
only a desk-sergeant in a two-
by-four town and he’s talking to
Detective-Inspector McLardie of
the C.I.D. You should of seen
him. His face is dead cold and
his eyes big and like they got
flames in them. He’s talking to a
superior so high above him he’d
ordinary need a ladder to see
him. But he’s talking to him.
Straight and good, he’s asking
him.
“You wouldn’t be knocking
this man about, would you, sir?”
It rocks Shakespeare so hard
he stands up and backs off a little.
It rocks Dickens so hard he gets
up and walks out. He sees what’s
coming and he don’t want to be
in it. Keesing put his eyes on the
wall and kept them there, but
there’s a little grin on his face.
THE STORY SO FAR
Delaney, told by the myster-
ious Mitchell that Carson, for
whom Delaney was to work, was
murdered, goes to Murray ford
police and informs the detective,
Jardine. Jardine refuses to credit
the apparently-absurd story and
throws Delaney into jail for
creating a mischief. Joyce Mar-
tin, Carson’s secretary, is sent by
a solicitor, Mellish, to bail De-
laney out. On the way to Mel-
lish’s office their car is almost
run down by a big, black car in
which sits a woman. Mellish
tells Delaney that the same
Mitchell phoned the news of
Delaney’s arrest. Mellish then
asks Delaney to help him find
out how Carson died. Before
Delaney can decide Mitchell
phones Mellish to say he can
prove that Carson was murdered,
that there is something more in
it, and asks Mellish to urge De-
laney to stay in Murray ford.
Delaney, fearing trouble, de-
cides to get out, goes to his room,
finds a man going through his
things, attacks him and discovers
him to be Detective Jardine.


Because he’s waiting to see this
twopenny sergeant of country
police smacked down.
McLardie starts to smack
Arentz down.
“Sergeant, I don’t seem to
understand.” He’s cool and
smooth and cruel. He don’t raise
his voice. Don’t stir in his chair.
“Are you questioning me as
to”
Arentz is shaking a little. He’s
doing something only one in a
hundred uniform police would
do and he knows it. So he’s
shaking, but he’s game.
“I asked you a plain question,
sir. I see it was unnecessary.”
He turned to me and says, real
quick, “You hurt?”
“I’m hurt.”
“Sergeant!” McLardie shoots
to his feet. He’s taller than
Arentz. His ferret nose shines
in the light. His eyes are shining.
His mouth looks like a black line.
“Sergeant! Get back and
attend to your duties. This is
our work and”
“You’ll not abuse any man in
the way I believe this man is
being abused, Inspector, if I
know anything about it.”
It must have been a hell of a
shock to McLardie. Nobody
less than the top brass in the
State police would even speak to
him without permission, way 1
see it, and here’s this unknown
sergeant telling him what he can
do and can’t do. McLardie kind
of swells and looks like he’ll
explode. The grin is gone from
Keesing’s face and he looks a
bit worried. Nice to see him
worried. In my mind I promise
I’ll make it two drinks for
Arentz —I’ll make it as many is
he wants.
“Sergeant, what is your name
again?”
“Arentz, sir.”
“H’m. Well, Arentz, I’ll prob-
ably have your jacket for this.
You?”
“Sir, with all due respect, you
can have my jacket before I’ll
see the law abused.”
He isn’t shaking now. He's
drawn his cards and made his
bets and he’ll see it through.
He’s that kind.
McLardie must of seen he was
that kind, too, because he comes
at it another way.
“Sergeant, I take it you are as
anxious as I am to see poor
Jardine’s murderer convicted?”
Arentz turns again and looks
at me. It’s a long, thoughtful
kind of look, and in back of it
there’s something savage. His
face is white in the light. He
turns to McLardie.
“Inspector, I knew Harry
Jardine for years. We worked
together. I’d personally jerk the
trap myself if I was certain
Jardine was murdered and the
murderer was standing on it with
a rope round his neck. This man
might have shot him. I don’t
know. He says he didn’t.
Inspector, I know what I’m
doing. I know what I’m in for
over this. But let me tell you this.
I was a constable in nineteen-
thirty-nine and when the war
came I enlisted. It was because
of what I’d read .and heard about
men being belted with rubber
truncheons. It made me sick.
Sir, I’m sorry, but I still feel that
way about it.”
“Good God, Arentz, we’re not
using rubber truncheons, man!”
“I’m sorry, Inspector. What
you’re doing with this man
seems the same thing to me.”
Nobody says anything. Shake-
speare keeps on leaning against
the wall. Keesing has turned so
his back is to me. McLardie
stands there looking at Arentz
and his eyes cold and the black
line along his mouth. Arentz
stands there, not shaking, not
stiff, kind of loose, like he’s
waiting for something. Me? I
guess I’m trying to take it all in.
There’s the kind of silence you
can hear.
“All right. Sergeant,” Mc-
Lardie says. His voice got
nothing in it. It’s flat and dead.
Only you know there’s plenty
in it. “All right. Now if you’ll
just leave us so we can get
on”
Right to that minute I didn t
know I’d had it. Right to then
I thought I was doing all right.
But suddenly I don’t hear no
more. Because there’s a lot of
heat and the room spins and 1
can’t breathe. I try to stand
up. I get my hands on the table
to help me stand up, but the
table jumps and hits me in the
face and all I know is red flashes
and everything black.
Next thing I know I’m still
sitting in my chair and this
Shakespeare is holding my
shoulders with one arm and got
a big mug of hot tea in his hand.
“Drink this, Delaney,” he says.
“It’ll do you good.”
I look at him. Then I look
round. Nobody else there. Only
me and him.
“Somebody crown me?”
“Nobody crowned you. Drink
the tea.”
So J drink the tea. It’s hot and
strong and like he said it does
me good.
“Arentz get in trouble?”
Shakespeare don’t say anything
for a minute. Then there’s a
growl in his voice. Not much
more than a boy, this Shake-
speare, but he’s got his notions of
things. Just a police shorthand-
writer, but he’s got his notions.
“Don’t fret yourself about the
sergeant. I was here all the
time. Just drink the tea.”
So I drink the tea. In my mind
I know what Shakespeare means.
There’s any trouble about
Arentz speaking up he’ll be for
Arentz. So will I, comes to that.
Because nobody better than me
knows what that Keesing was
doing. I think some about Shake -
speare. He was there the day
Jardine took my statement about
Mitchell. He knows how Jardine
jumped me over it. He ought
to know, because it was him
stopped my hand under his chin
that day.
When McLardie questions me
I give him the. stuff about
Mitchell calling me to say
Carson was no accident and how
I got to Jardine with it. I give
him the stuff about Jardine not
believing it, and how he jumped
me and how I knocked Shake-
speare under the chin, and the
rest of them come in and give
me the drongo-run to the cell.
I don’t tell McLardie about
Mitchell calling Hellish and
Hellish sending Joyce Martin to
bail me out.
Because McLardie don’t give
me the chance. He hears that
much about Jardine jumping me
and way he sees it Jardine must
of had something on me and
went to my room and I gunned
him down. So he calls Keesing
and they go to work on me.
That gets my back up. The first
jab I get from Keesing gets my
back up. Because I’m willing to
tell ’em what I can, on account
of it looking bad for me with
Jardine shot in my room and
I’m there when it happens. I’m
willing to tell ’em, but nobody’s
going to beat anything out of
me. It’s just the way I am.
Nobody beats anything out of
me. They start to beating me
and Igo dumb. Because I know
I got Hellish and Mitchell up
my sleeve. If I have to I can
call Hellish into court and make
him tell about Mitchell. But they
start doing me over gets my back
up. Only way I can get back at
them is shut up and let them
charge me. Then I call Hellish
and I’ll be waiting to laugh when
he stands up in the court and tells
about Mitchell.
Maybe I ought to had more
sense and told them about
Hellish. Maybe I would have
told them if the beating got bad.
Only Arentz horns in and it
stops and now there’s only me
and Shakespeare. So I drink mv
tea and my mind working, and
it comes to me the whole set-up
is screwy. About as screwy as it
could be. But I got Hellish and
Mitchell up my sleeve and I’m
keeping them there. Because
I’m sore and I want to see these
birds standing in the court when
Hellish does his stuff. He gave
me away, and told them to get
the Public Defender, and that’s
something else is going to give
me a laugh. Because when I
talk to the P.D. about the first
thing he’s going to do is rake into
Hellish with both feet.
Hellish
“If you feel like it,” Shake-
speare says, “I’ll take you back.”
We go down the passage and
he puts me in the cell and the
lockup-keeper locks it.
I lie down on the bunk. They
got my dough and cigarettes and
watch and everything except my
clothes. They don’t even leave
me a handkerchief, because a
prisoner could strangle himself
with a handkerchief. That’s why
they got my belt, too. They
could of left my belt and a razor
and a gun and some poison.
Because Delaney is no Jardine.
Delaney will be there when they
want him.
Jardine?
In my mind I go over it. I
go over it all the way from
Carson’s telegram to me lying
here on this cell bunk at some-
where round half-past eleven in
the morning. It don’t make no
sense I can see. It’s worse than
one of them thriller pictures.
More I go over it more it makes
no sense. I fly into this Hurray-
ford to work for Carson and
things happen like in a movie and
Carson’s dead and Jardine put a
gun in his mouth and he’s dead
and this Mitchell bird talks but
don’t show and Hellish gives me
away and here I am. Not even
the redhead to hold my mitt and
soothe my fevered brow, as the
fellow says. Nobody to hold my
hand, only Detective-Inspector
McLardie dead set to pin Jardine
on me.
So my mind goes round and
round and I lie there I’ll get in a
panic. Because it’s a big blue
stew and looks like boiling me to
bits. I lie there and I get in a
panic and maybe start screaming.
So I got to get my mind off it.
I start thinking about the
redhead.
Because she’s worth thinking
about. I’d like to hold her hands
behind her back with one of
mine and use the other to tilt her
chin and kiss her. Gentle, I’d kiss
her, for a start. Because she’d
scare easy. So it’d be gentle and
I’d wait for it to work. It would
work and I’d feel her body give
a little and maybe shake a tiny
bit and then her lips would
open
“Delaney! ”
I never even heard them open
the cell door. The lockup-
keeper is standing over me and
in back of him a uniformed cop.
“Come on, Delaney.”
“More bloody Keesing?” I
grunt, and get up.
But we turn the other way in
the passage and go out a door
and across a paved yard and
through a passage in a stone
“I jump for him, grab the camera, jerk the plate out and expose it to the sun."
building and up some stairs and
I’m in the dock.
I get kind of a heavy shock.
Because it’s on. This is where
they been bringing me all the
time. I come up through the
floor of the dock and they shut
the trapdoor and there I am. 1
look over the top bar —I can see
over the top bar when I’m stand-
ing up —and there’s a long table
and beyond that a high bench.
There’s nobody on the bench.
Just under it two fellows sit.
There’s a sergeant of police near
a door and a constable near
another door. The cop brought
me in stands by the dock. On
the right wall is the place where
the jury sits, on the left a sort
of pen marked PRESS.
So I’m going to be in the
newspapers.
There must of been another
door behind the dock somewhere,
because in walks Detective-
Inspector McLardie and a fellow
in plain-clothes. They don’t
look at me. I hear a shuffle and
look up behind me. There’s a
gallery and people coming in,
I don’t know them. They look
at me and then look somewhere
else.
Two men come in. The fat
one in the sports-coat goes and
sits in the newspaper-box and
makes with pencils and paper.
I feel a grin inside me because he
don’t know what’s coming.
The other fellow is this Honey,
the well-dressed coot I first
bumped at the airport and then
up in Carson’s room. And the
bells start ringing in my head
again and I look him over and
run back through my memory.
Somewhere before I run into
him. He looks at me, but it’s
just the same as he looks at a
wall.
Then I give a bit of a jump,
because in walks Hellish and
right beside him is Joyce Martin.
She’s wearing a light-grey suit
with white at the throat, and
white gloves, and a little grey-
and-white hat with a short green
feather in it. Hellish leads her
to the long table and pulls out a
chair and she sits in it. Hellish
don’t look at me. He nods to
McLardie and the other cops
and runs an eye round the court.
Joyce is white about the gills
and she’s plenty nervous, but she
turns her head and looks at me
and catches my eye and she
smiles. It’s only a little smile
and she looks down again, quick,
but it goes right through me. I
can feel it in my bones. I
kind of feel it running round
inside me and doing things and
I sit down on the form. Because
that smile takes my breath right
away.
Next thing somebody says,
sharp, “Silence! Stand up!”
Everybody stands up.
A big grey-headed man comes
from somewhere behind the
bench and sits down. He’s up
higher than me. He settles
himself and says something to
the man sitting under him on his
right. The cops keep standing,
but the plain-clothes men and
everybody else sit down. So do I.
The cop standing by the dock
whispers to me, “Every time his
Worship speaks to you, or you
want to speak to him, you stand,
see! ”
His Worship nods and smiles
to everybody but me, then he
says something to the man under
him on his left. The man stands
up and sings out, “Denis Aloysius
Delaney!”
“Stand up!” hisses the cop.
I stand up.
“Denis Aloysius Delaney you
stand charged with that on the
twenty-fifth day of March of the
year one-thousand-nine-hundred-
and - fifty - three you did
feloniously and with malice
aforethought slay by means of
shooting one Harry Leslie
Jardine at a room in the premises
known as the Crown Hotel in the
town of Murrayford the said
Harry Leslie Jardine being at the
time a police officer in the execu-
tion of his duty and you now
answer to the charge of murder
how do you plead?”
It comes out of him like a song
and everybody sits around and
don’t even look at him. It’s like
(Continued on page 27)


Industrial Enterprise
One of the earliest Australian
inventions of world import-
ance was the first mechanized
appliance to take ripe grain
from standing crops. It was
known as the ‘Stripper’ and
was pushed hy horses.
The present offers opportunities
no less than the past
has been our privilege, since
the early days, to meet the banking
needs of those whose resource and
enterprise has helped to develop the
wealth of Australia.
To-day, owned and staffed by Aus-
tralians, we offer a modern and
complete banking service for the
further development of Industry and
Commerce.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Nous Cherchons
un ami
by
Cunne
Bell
THE wind raced down the
lines and across the
platform of Lyons, and
tore another strip off the
flapping timetable, chasing it,
together with a scurry of dirt
and a few dead leaves, the length
of die platform.
The cameo brooch, bought at
Naples three summers ago and
pinned to Miss Andrews’s navy
silk breast, rose and fell on the
ebb and flow of an immense sigh.
She stood in the heap of accumu-
lated luggage, clutching a string-
bag in one hand, holding her
straw hat on with the other and
waited for Mrs. Parker to do
something.
“I can’t understand why
Charles isn’t here. He wrote and
said he’d meet us at this exact
spot,” She cast a hopeful eye
around, just in case.
Miss Andrews changed holding
hands and looked stolid. She
had spent the night in the tram
from Bordeaux, and of her
neighboring companions one had
smoked and the other had spat,
and neither had been conducive
to Miss Andrews’s comfort.
“What shall we do then?”
Mrs. Parker put her head on
one side and looked intelligent
and well-informed.
“We will go to the
gendarmerie, and get them to
find Charles. Tonight we will
book in at a hotel, tomorrow we
will have found Charles.”
Miss Andrews looked sadder.
“It is a great pity you didn’t
keep his address.” The brooch
fell, subject to the tide again.
“Nonsense. Any friend of
George’s”—Mrs. Parker’s voice
dropped a tone or two in defer-
ence to her departed husband —
“is quite reliable. Something
may have been misunderstood in
his letter. It is all quite simple.”
“All the same, you must
remember we are abroad now.”
Miss Andrews breathed capitals
an inch high on the last word.
“We should have gone on a tour,
instead of being so independent.”
Mrs. Parker stopped looking
intelligent and well - informed
and looked daring instead.
“This is much more fun, and,
besides, more broadening. Come
on.”
OHE grasped a suitcase pur-
posefully and set off. A
couple of porters cast a roving
and subsequently rejecting look ;
Britain was exporting poor stuff
at the end of the season.
In the echoing vestibule,
another thought struck Mrs.
Parker. She flopped the suitcase
on to the floor with a triumphant
bang.
“I shall ask at Inquiries if
Charles has left a message for
us.” No longer daring, she had
become the seasoned traveller.
It was a transition that affected
her companion’s morale very
little.
“Do you know enough French
to ask?”
“Of course. I’ll ask them if
they’ve seen a man . . , un
homme,” she added with a
degree of pride. “Anyhow . . .
there’s a dictionary.” And she
fished in the string-bag that still
dangled limply attached to Miss
Andrews’s unresisting hand. Her
shoes clacked across the huge
floor, subsiding into a squeaky
whisper as they met the rubber
on the floor of the inquiry-
office.
The clerk wasn’t very
interested. He finished reading
his paper, took off his glasses and
eventually looked up. Mrs.
Parker smiled brightly, but with-
out effect.
“Pardon.” She paused to
search for the next word. It
was more difficult than she had
expected. The clerk continued
to look at her dully, without
either interest or help.
“I wonder ... I mean ... I
am looking . . . }e cherche . . . ? ”
she stopped and flung her hands
out.
Slow light dawned in the clerk’s
dull eyes, he rose and took
Mrs. Parker by the arm and
waved down a corridor.
“A droit ...” He waved an
arm and pointed.
Hope sprang in Mrs. Parker's
heart. Probably Charles was
waiting for them in a waiting-
room, and had warned the
inquiry-office. Stupid of her not
to think of that; she flung Miss
Andrews a brighter-than-ever
smile as she set off in the general
direction the clerk had suggested.
Past a bevy of waiting porters
she clacked happily, relief shin-
ing on her face.
The corridor turned sharply
and abruptly ran into a narrow,
white tiled alley. Mrs. Parker s
French was good enough to read
the side-by-side notices. Con-
fusion spread across her face,
she backed out and with averted
face, passed the porters and
returned to Miss Andrews’s un-
continental and comforting side.
“The clerk was very unhelpful.
He didn’t even try to under-
stand.”
“Where did you go to, then,
when you passed me?” Mrs.
Parker hoped Miss Andrews
would have had enough tact to
leave this question unasked.
“To the washroom,” she
replied shortly. “And now, we
will find a place to stay for the
night and then go to the police,
they will have Charles’s address.”
Together they trailed out the
doors and down the steps.
TN the spring, the chestnut-trees
had held candles of blossom
out; now ripe chestnuts every
now and then fell with a plop on
to the pavement and bounced
into the gutter. The Rhone, that
had been swift and young in
May, flowed sluggishly and dirtily
in the old age of autumn. Poli-
tical slogans were scrawled across
a grey wall and a group of youths
were busy re-writing them to
their own tastes.
Mrs. Parker and Miss Andrews
ran the gamut of the stares from
the occupants of the pavement
cafes. Übiquitous Arabs
appeared from dingy corners and
tried to sell them smuggled
watches and garish carpets, cling-
ing to their shocked arms, until
silence shook them off, to lie in
wait for the next tourist.
The first hotel was a mass of
carpets and plateglass.
“Too expensive,” said Mrs.
Parker, bearing across the foot-
path until the modest doorway
of what called itself a family
guest-house found her glance.
The proprietress loomed
through the shadows and over-
flowed into the cubicle that did
duty as office. Yes . . . they had
a room, and she promptly named
a price that was three times its
worth. Mrs. Parker shook her
head, so she brought it down to
twice its worth, and they were
all satisfied.
A dark-eyed child struggled up
the uncarpeted stairs with the
cases, and left them, a sudden
affectionate link with home, sit-
ting in the middle of the uncom-
promising room.
Madame spoke a little English.
The gendarmerie was just along
that street and across the place.
Miss Andrews took heart. At
least, they had a roof over their
deserted heads.
HTHE gendarmerie looked small
and friendly ; only a narrow
counter separated their clients
from the upholders of French
law, most of whom were draped
over the corners of desks, talk-
ing volubly. One dragged him-
self away from the conversation
long enough to saunter across
and lean expectantly on the
counter for the sakes of the
newly-acquired clients.
“Say something,” said Miss
Andrews, holding the dictionary
at the ready between her gloved
hands.
“Does anyone here speak
English?” said Mrs. Parker,
hopefully. The officer turned to
his companions, they all smiled
and shrugged and looked vaguely
apologetic, and turned to regard
the women, awaiting the next
move. Mrs, Parker took
courage . . .
“Je . . . No.” Graciously she
included her companion in the
matter. “Nous cherchons un
ami ... a friend ...” she trailed
off, reaching for the dictionary.
The police force leaped to the
alert. Obviously they would do
what they could to improve
Anglo-French relations.
“Tell them his name,” sug-
gested Miss Andrews. Mrs.
Parker sent her mind back to
class six again, but was cut short
by one of the gendarmes waving
her to silence. His smile was
reassuring as he thrust a piece
of paper under her hand ; oblig-
ingly she wrote her name and
address. One or two gendarmes
rose and smoothed down their
jackets and smiled. Mrs. Parker
smiled coldly back . . . she had
travelled.
“I still think you should have
told them what his name was..
and that he was living here, and
said he’d meet us,” said Miss
NATIVE GARDEN
A bird beneath the tea-tree snow,
burning the summertime away,
sings to the banksias on fire
that feed at the white heat of day;
then sings: “O armored sipider-flower
in scarlet and green defence,
open the sunlight’s golden sides
with small bright knives of insolence.”
The slight and brilliant bird cries over
the sugar-gums that stir like sea:
“Burst your buds in foam and spray
of beaded and threaded ivory.”
And sings in my mind—a crimson throat
that beats in a bush of indigo,
so fierce the music moves in me,
so wild the colors flow.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—-In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM FRANKLIN THOMPSON
late of Enmore. —TAKE NOTICE that
WINIFRED ALICE MURIEL THOMP-
SON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1121 of 1954 on the ground of desertion
•without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 80th day of
June 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY
SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERNEST JOSEPH WILSON formerly
of 139 Dowling Street East Sydney in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that IDA FLORENCE WILSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 261
of 1951 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the sth day of July 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ASHER OLD &
JONES, Solicitors, of 5 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/-
Yearly 22/.6
J
NOW PRICED FROM
£799
• MORE POWER
All (kerosene-operated) models have
been increased a full 10% in brake and
drawbar h.p.!
e MORE FEATURES
New, modified front-end and steering
make it even more robust, extra strong.
Hydraulic lift and P.T.O. controls
now engage independently operate
separately or together!
• LOWER PRICE
Basic, kerosene-operated tractor with
electric lighting and starting, belt pulley,
drawbar, independent turning brakes,
hour meter, sponge seat, chaff screen and
canvas engine cover —all as standard
equipment —with 4 steel wheels, 30 x 5
(fronts), 55 x 9 (rears), with spade lugs,
£799.
• OPTIONAL PNEUMATIC TYRE
EQUIPMENT
600 x 19 (front), 11 x 36 (rear), £BO
additional.
750 x 18 (front), 14 x 30 (rear), £lB6
additional.
600 lb. incorporated in each rear wheel,
£264 additional.
• OPTIONAL EXTRA EQUIPMENT
108" axle, £l5; hydraulic lift and P.T.0.,
£99/18/-; overload release, £l9; hand
clutch, £6/5/-.
All prices F.O.R. Capital Cities.
Diesel models and row-crop models with
twin front wheels also available.
'i
—!T7iy«;E\.F
«•
NT.23.24
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
u
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. VICTORIA PARK. JOYNTOH AVENUE, ZETLAND
Andrews, when they were in the
street again.
“Nonsense. They probably get
calls like that every day, and
are going to take it to the usual
quarters. We will call back there
tomorrow, and probably find
they have an interpreter for us.
Not,” she hastened to add, “that
we can’t get along quite nicely
in French.”
Af ISS ANDREWS sidestepped
a little boy who spat, and
walked gingerly on. She was
fast getting a phobia about spit-
ting, and the people of Lyons
seemed to do it with alarming
accuracy and frequency.
In the late-afternoon sunlight,
they walked slowly back to their
hotel, Mrs. Parker small, neat,
like a well-fed sparrow, and her
companion echoing and reflect-
ing her, both dressed in navy-
blue silk, both hatted and gloved,
with their lisle stockings ending
in long, pointed, sensible shoes.
Grey-suited, moustached, urban
businessmen brushed past them,
groups of short-haired, laughing
girls pushed by and lovers,
entwined and entangled together,
spared them never a look.
“It must be very uncomfort-
able to walk like that,” remarked
Miss Andrews, as a particularly
enmeshed pair went past.
“Oh . . . Well. France, you
know.” Mrs. Parker was being
tolerant now.
They had spaghetti for supper,
chiefly because it was one thing
on the menu that they recognised,
and also because it was cheap.
The coffee after was black and
bitter, and Mrs. Parker bought
some sugared almonds to take
away the taste, feeling, as she
did so, that she was letting her
feeling get the better of her
cosmopolitan ambitions.
Afterwards they went up to
the dull little room, with its one
patch of red carpet islanded on
the unpolished boards; washed
in the cold china basin, and
climbed, side by side, into the
ancient double-bed. Miss
Andrews sighed and sat up.
“I think,” she said, “we should
lock the door.”
Big and cold, the key jutted
from its hole, creaking as she
turned it. She felt more secure,
locked in one small chamber of
safety, isolated from the un-
British people who spat.
Patches of light sifted through
from the street-lamp outside and
the laughter and conversation of
the passers-by down below
drifted as a background for the
incessant and insistent traffic
noises.
'T'HE traffic noises were still
breaking the night when Miss
Andrews heard the creaking,
mounting to a pinnacle of near-
ness and culminating in a knock
on the door. Horror froze her
angular limbs. All the stories
she had ever read or been told
about strange happenings in
strange lands met in her brain
in one glorious overwhelming
terror.
The next knock, gentle, almost
like a caress on the door, awoke
Mrs. Parker to sit bolt upright
in a flurry of white nightgown.
Miss Andrews drew herself up
beside her; together they stared
at one another in the dim light.
“Reach me my teeth,”
whispered Mrs. Parker.
The knock came again and
the door-handle moved in slight
impatience; Miss Andrews
watched it in horrified fascina-
tion. Then the voice called,
softly, and in a bubble of
French; the door-handle rattled
again.
Mrs. Parker cast an anguished
eye round the room. Half in the
pale shadow, a straight-backed
chair stood against the wall and
she leapt from bed and thrust it
hastily against the door. Some-
how, both the door and the chair
looked thin and unsubstantial.
“Go away. Go away at once!
Her voice sounded thin, and in-
substantial, too. Suddenly, from
the depths of Miss Andrews’s
petrified memory, a word floated
to the surface.
“Allez! Allez at once!” she
shrieked.
The tone of the soft voice
changed, the venom of French
blasphemy scorched the gentle
and unknowing ears of the
imprisoned women, boring
through the wall and the too-
thin door. It stopped as suddenly
as it had sprung up, finishing on
a violent spitting noise, and dying
down into a retreating creaking.
In the morning, only the chair
stood as testimony that the whole
thing had been true. Miss
Andrews shook her sleepless head
at the wonder of their deliver-
ence, and they talked a good deal
about it as they dressed and
went down to the coffee and
croissants that Madame served
them in the dingy little dining-
room, before they made their
way to the police again.
SOMEHOW the gendarmerie
didn’t seem so friendly that
morning. The man who had
straightened his jacket and smiled
the most brilliantly at them
yesterday swivelled round in his
chair, gave them one sullen look
and devoted himself to the
papers in front of him.
On the desk beside him, an
upturned cap overflowed its
curious contents of little strips of
paper on to the ink-stained
blotter.
One or two other gendarmes
even sniggered.
No doubt, thought Miss
Andrews, the French were a
moody race. Charming today,
boorish tomorrow.
The officer who had given
them the paper to write their
names on thrust another paper
at them, prodding the address
with an emphatic finger. Miss
Andrews peered over Mrs.
Parker’s shoulder to read the
name and residence of the British
Consulate.
“There. I told you they would
know what to do.”
Mrs. Parker’s self-assurance
asserted itself again; she smiled
at the gendarmes brightly, said
“Merci” several times, and made
a gracious exit.
As she did so, the moody
gendarme said a wild word and
swept the upturned cap off the
deck with a vicious swipe, send-
ing little pieces of paper shower-
ing across the floor. A roar of
laughter from his confederates
greeted his action.
“Ah . . . Gallic temperament.
I wonder what upset him,” said
Mrs. Parker wisely. Everything
was going to plan, they would
now be able to find this friend
of her husband’s, and have him
show them round Lyons, as he
had promised. Miss Andrews
said nothing. She had heard that
word said somewhere before.
The consulate was dreary and
dull-looking, but the inhabitant
of the nearest desk who came to
meet them was reassuringly
British, from her sensible shoes
to her faded hair, swept into the
dual confines of a bun and a
hair-net. Mrs. Parker announced
their business and then wrote it
down for official tabulation on
a little white, ordered form, as
the under-secretary padded off
to find the secretary.
The secretary was neat and
moustached and rubbed his
hands happily together.
“Why, yes. We know the
address of every Britisher in
Lyons. I’m sure your friend will
be upset. There must have been
a misunderstanding. And now,
won’t you sit down? Miss Rees
will bring out the files.”
He clicked like a nervous
cicada.
Miss Andrews cast a glance at
her friend. At last they were
safe, off unknown territory. The
secretary washed his hands with
air and made more polite con-
versation. Miss Andrews and
Mrs. Parker warmed under the
tea-party atmosphere, and Mrs.
Parker expanded into explana-
tions and praise of the
gendarmes ... so polite ... so
obliging.
“And did you have any trouble
with the language?”
Mrs. Parker shrugged.
“Oh . . . when one knows a
little ... I merely went to the
gendarmerie and said I was look-
ing for a friend . . . that we were
both looking for a friend.
Nous cherchons un cmi . . . ”
she added brightly, slipping the
words quickly over her tongue.
The moustached secretary
raised an eyebrow, and lowered
it slowly again.
“You learnt Parisian French,
of course?”
“Why . . . Yes . . . It’s the
purest.”
Mrs. Parker smiled proudly.
The secretary smiled and chewed
his moustache.
“You found they understood
at the gendarmerie?”
“Why, yes. Very obliging,
they were.”
“Well ... I feel I should tell
you . . . One knows, of course,
how dialect and meanings vary in
such a language.” The secretary
bit his lip, and went a pale pink.
“I feel I should explain . . .
perhaps for your help.” He
smiled confidentially, as traveller
to broadened traveller. “But
here in Lyons—of course, the
gendarmes would understand that
you were using Parisian French
—but here in Lyons, they use the
word ‘Camarade’ . . . Actually
. . . Y’ see. Actually”—he went
a deeper shade of pink —“ ‘Ami,'
the word ‘ami’ here in Lyons,
means ‘lover.’ ”
The veneer of the seasoned
traveller remained with Mrs.
Parker.
“Really,” she said, smiling
her knowing, woman-of-the-
world smile. “Then they must
have known I \Vas speaking
Parisian French. They under-
stood and were most obliging.
Weren’t they most obliging?”
Turning to Miss Andrews for
confirmation.
Miss Andrews nodded slowly.
She suddenly remembered where
she had heard the gendarme’s
voice, she also suddenly remem-
bered the smiles . . . and the hat
looking as though lots may have
been drawn from it.
“Yes . . . Most obliging, Ivy.
Most,” she agreed quietly with
Mrs. Parker. “In fact . . . one
could almost say”—she smiled
again—“almost overwhelmingly
obliging.”
FIGURE ON THE DUNES
He lithographs the sand’s hot snow
With naked feet, and reads lagoons and rocks for signs,
This wiry bush for copper butterflies. “High tide!
The sea has not brought much today.’’ Not wine
He begs. His thirst he slakes with water asked
From doors along the dunes, behind the sands
On which he walks his miles through spray, and stripped
To waist, with long grey hair, grey, thorn-combed fleece.
An angel should be proud if trained by God
To walk the shore this way with spring stride
Of heels that seem intent on holy matters,
With eyes, bright rocks cut small, grown strange through
search
For truth revealed in broken shellfish coffins,
In small pink hearts embalmed in mindless jellies,
The tide abandoned salp, that melts, dissolves,
And strains itself through sand to dissolution.
“One bone! The sea has not brought much today.”
Yet look, with hope he walks, and casts his eyes
Around like nets, like lines. The man himself
Eats only bread; no flesh of fish, of beast;
Nor trusts his body to the storm’s frail boat but clings
To sand, to shore where seeds of spinifex on spokes
Like golden wheels run fast, run slow, and stop.
Ten years of tides have let him comb their wastes
Of weed for oceanic information.
“With this west wind there is not much to find,” he smiles
And hurries on, old sack in long-nailed, sunbaked fingers,
Grey scrip prepared for rare or curious species,
And casts his dedicated eyes. Ten years of tides
Are long, though short not long, too short for holy
exploration.
N Z
HELEN SHAW.


Now! ONE Brushing with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM
REMOVES ENZYMES
that cause Bad Breath
and Tooth Decay!
m
:;■■>
f/M
WSfBr&X-.X
Only the Colgate way
does all three!
CLEANS YOUR BREATH
while it
CLEANS YOUR TEETH
and STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
mu
NOW COLGATE’S ACTS INSTANTLY
ON DECAY PRODUCING ENZYMES!
Brushing your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream instantly removes
enzyme-producing Bacteria, and it
iis enzymes that produce tooth
decay acids! But—if you really
want to.prevent decay, be sure to
follow the Colgate way. Scientific
tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing the teeth right after
eating stopped more decay for
more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history!
ONE BRUSHING WITH
COLGATE’S STOPS BAD
BREATH INSTANTLY!
Your very first brushing
with Colgate’s each morn-
ing removes up to 85% of
the bacteria that cause bad
breath! Yes, scientific tests
prove that Colgate Dental
Cream stops bad breath
instantly in 7 out of 10
cases that originate in the
mouth!
BRUSHING TEETH
RIGHT AFTER EATING STOPS
TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year
period showed a startling
reduction in tooth decay for
those who brushed their
teeth with Colgate’s right
after eating! In fact, X-rays
showed no new cavities
whatever for almost 2 out
of 3 people.
COL
BUY THE BIG
FAMILY ECONOMY SIZE
AND SAVE 1/sd.
Gives You a Cleaner, Fresher
Mouth All Day!
AMERICA’S LARGEST—AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST-THE WORLD’S
LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
Am
Between
Ourselves
df
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Calorific
Value
i
i
B ;
Wm
PULVERISED PUEL FIRING-TYPE'E'MILLS
■
as
9M
m
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
CHAIN GRATE
STOKER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
m
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
Public Notice
I, GERT EDWIN MAGNUS, of German
nationality, bom at Mentone, France,
resident 4J years in Australia, now
residing at 43 Lower Fort Street, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Australian war-bride, ex-
W.A.A.A.F., returning to Australia
with English husband (ex-R.N.) and
three small children, wants furnished
or unfurnished flat or cottage in Syd-
ney.—s7B7.
To buy Outback Occupations by
Charles Shaw. —5785.
To buy copy of A Drum for Ben
Boyd by Francis Webb and Century
Cookery Book by Senn. —5786.
Issues of “Cummins and Camp-
bell’s Monthly Magazine” prior to
1941, also issues for September, 1941,
and November, 1944. Good price
will be paid for complete set to end
of 1940, or will purchase individual
issues.—s 774.
Single man, 65, active, travelled,
ex-SeiVice (Canadian), experienced
shop-assistant general store, can
handle small telephone-exchange.
Detests radio, comfortable small in-
come, wants board, quiet country
place where some occupation. Would
purchase interest by instalment pay-
ment in small country business.
Queensland or Northern N.S.W. pre-
ferred—s 773.
To buy copy of The Cubmaster’s
First Year, published in Canada for
the Boy Scouts’ Association. —5767.
To buy copy of magazine or book
containing a short story “Augustus
Carp, Esquire, by Himself.” —5770.
Does Anybody Know?
Who said, and on what occasion,
the following words: “For what I
have done, if I do nothing more, 1
shall die happy”?—s7Bl.
Information Sought
How to make ginger-beer ?
To make a ginger-beer plant, place
in jug or china basin ( not a metal
plate) i cup sugar, one dessertspoon
ground ginger, juice of one lemon
and almost one quart water. Cover
with net and allow to stand for three
days. Pour off almost all liquid, and
feed for four days with a teaspoon
sugar and a half-teaspoon ginger each
day, stirring each time. Use the plant
by putting four quarts water, four
cups sugar, juice of four lemons, two
dessertspoons ginger and the plant
into a large dish. Cover and leave
till next day, stirring occasionally.
Strain and bottle, but do not stir
before bottling; it’s ready for drink-
ing in about three days after bot-
tling. Residue in the dish is the
plant, which should be fed as before,
but feeding should be continued for
seven days instead of four before
again making beverage. The plant
(really a fungus) increases in size
after each making, and after about
six lots can be halved to form two
separate plants.
Who was Berthe Morisot?
She was a French Impressionist
painter, granddaughter of the painter
Jean Honors Fragonard (1732-1806).
Bourges in 1840, she studied
under Guichard and Qjldinot, and was
a pupil of her husband’s brpther, the
im!> e o S i? n ' st painter Edouard Manet
11032-83). Berthe admired Manet’s
work so much that she would not sign
her own works “Manet,” though by
carriage entitled to do so. She
Salon from 1864 to
■lu’t but . sbe ma <le her reputation
With her pictures in the exhibition of
the first Impressionists at the Naders
Gallery, Paris.
* * * *
~ Origin and significance of the term
maru, ’ used in the names of Japan-
ese ships?
Applied as a suffix to all Japanese
merchant-ships (e.g., Seicho Maru,
Yae Maru), the term has been associ-
ated with Japanese cominercial ship-
J or as long as history records.
Ihe dictionary meaning is “round, or
f, cir £l e ;” Around the beginning of
the Tokugawa era (1600-1867) the
Government issued to ship-operators
licences which carried a red-circle
seal. The shipowner, to show that he
was in possession of the necessary
licence, would reproduce the circle on
some part of his ship, whether it was
ocean-liner or lighter. It is thought
that, from this universal use of the
circle (“maru”), grew the custom of
always adding the word to the ship’s
name.
• * * *
%
For what is Beatrice Cenci, whom
I believe Shelley wrote of, celebrated ?
Beatrice Cenci (1577-99), a young
Roman woman, was the daughter of
Francesco Cenci (1549-98), a man of
great wealth but cruel and vicious
nature. She suffered greatly from her
father s brutality, and so conspired
with her brother and stepmother to
kill him. As a result Francesco
was killed in his bed by Beatrice’s
friend Olimpio Calvelti and a hired
assassin (Sept. 9, 1598). The Cencis
were arrested and finally confessed to
the murder; they were refused pardon
Py the Pope, and the three named, to-
gether with the actual murderers, were
all executed (Sept. 11, 1599). Beatrice
was the heroine of a number of
Werary works, including a tragedy by
Shelley, The Cenci, and a novel by
Francesco Guerrazzi.
* • ♦ *
Method of repainting golf-balls ?
The surface of the ball should be
thoroughly cleansed from dirt and
grease and the old paint removed by
immersing the ball in a diluted caustic-
soda solution, taking care that the
outside cover is not burnt. The
simplest method of painting the ball
(if you have no spraying-apparatus)
is to pour a little golf-ball lacquer
into the palm of the hand and roll
the ball between the palms. Two
coats should be sufficient. The ball
can be dried by inserting a pin into
it and suspending by an attached
thread.
Brief Answers
W.E.S.: The King of the Ranges
by Nat Gould deals with the ex-
ploits of the Tasmanian bushranger
Mike Howe... .H.H.: The American
edition of Such Is Life by Joseph
Furphy (“Tom Collins”) was pub-
lished by the Chicago University
Press (1948) R.N.L.: W. J. Tur-
ner was born in South Australia, but
he left Australia at an early age.
There are few Australian allusions in
his poetry, but his first novel, Blow
for Balloons, has many scenes set in
this country R.H.: You may be
thinking of Margaret Catchpole, The
Girl from Wolfkettel, by George
Goldsmith Carter, published by Con-
stable, London, in 1949. It is a
highly romanticised account of her
life in England M.E.K.: Eleanor
Dark, the novelist, was born in 1901
and is the daughter of Dowell
O’Reilly. She married Dr. E. P.
Dark in 1921, and, except for a time
spent in Queensland, has lived since
in Katoomba (N.S.W.). Among her
most important novels are Prelude to
Christopher (1933); Sun Across the
Sky (1937); Waterway (1938); The
Timeless Land (1940); The Little
Company (1945); and The Storm of
Time (1948) G.L.H.: The Work-
ingman’s Paradise was written by
William Lane under the pseudonym
“John Miller” in 1892, the year
before he led the expedition to Para-
guay to found the New Australia
colony. He died in New Zealand in
1920 P.J.S.: The Glorious Cru-
saders by Kurt Offenbufg was trans-
lated by Chris Brennan. It is a fic-
tionalised account of a German pub-
lishing house in Germany after World
War I W.S.: J. Brunton Stephens
died in 1902... .F.M.: If the receiver
or someone authorised by him effected
the insurance, the receiver is person-
ally liable to pay the premium in
accordance with the terms of the con-
tract with the insurance company. If
neither the receiver nor anyone
authorised by him effected the in-
surance, the receiver is not liable
for the premium at all.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary,
L.G.: The mortality among old
swagmen lately has been more than
we can cope with... .P.G.S.: The
first rule is not to write in an exer-
cise-book, in pencil, on both sides
of the paper 8.N.: Read it with
interest till the old soak died and
the brindle dog began to keep his
“vigil lorn” W.M.C.: The old
boy is in safe keeping in the w.p.b.
H.U.: Didn’t we give that
same trickster his walking-ticket a
few months back? R.J.: It has a
few good points, but three times as
many bad ones N.T.S.: Our cata-
combs are full of variations of that
old-timer T.P.G.: Count it
among your youthful indiscretions.
O.M.: Why not halve the quan-
tity of your output and double the
quality? C.W.R.: Fate of old
fossicker brought a lump to our
throat but didn’t cause us to dip our
hand in our pocket C.N.: You
can call and take away your alcoholic
gravedigger F.L. :* All those ex-
clamation-marks deafened u 5....
W.S.: It might cause a faint titter
among a batch of schoolgirls
P.S.: Verses beginning with “Aus-
tralia! Land of the Red Waratah”
are rarely successful H.P.; We
never did have any time for parodies
of Omar Khayyam E.J.S.: Your
“Knight in Armor” was a trifle
rusty K.W.: In the remote event
of our entering the market for ghost
yarns we’ll consider you F.S.:
“Scenes like this are a common
occurrence where I come from.” And
stories about them are more common
still H.P.W.: Surely that old
yarn reached your part of the world
long before this F.A.: Lawson
said something like that very much
more effectively.... R.M.K.: Story
wrapped in cellophane should have
been wrapped in a shroud D.R.:
Obviously you have never studied the
stories that we print H.W.: We
don’t accept second-hand contribu-
tions, and that applies even to yarns
your local paper used and didn’t pay
for W.8.D.; Lose it in some out-
of-the-way place N.T.: Some day
you will thank us for keeping your
first effort out of print A.C.A.:
There might be “a germ of promise
concealed therein,” but it’s success-
fully concealed F.M.: There’s a
chance, but steer clear of droughts
and thirst-crazed prospectors
K.M.: An improvement, but it is
still stodgy V.P.; A story that
requires a long letter explaining its
meaning is no story at all G.D.H. :
Journey between editor’s desk and
w.p.b. occupied precisely one second.
B.S.: It came a cropper.


Unparliamentary Language
“Offensive to Me,
Mr. Speaker!”
By M. H. ELLIS
IT happened 40 years ago in
the Queensland Legislative
Assembly, before the days
of the gag, when a Labor
M.LA. called Joe could be
counted on to filibuster through
a long night.
It was after midnight, and Joe,
a dark, thin, Italianate piece of
eloquence, was getting into his
stride for an effort of 1\ hours.
Hansard had curled up and
looked as if it were dead. Mr.
Speaker’s deputy sat drowsing in
his chair, his left foot well
forward to hide the bottle of
whisky which he kept behind it
as a good-luck token. The Press
was almost asleep.
Members lay strewn about the
benches in strange disarray, their
whiskers in disorder. Dinny
Keogh, the wildest of them all,
had his left elastic-side off to
ease the famous bunion on which
everybody trod from malice
aforethought.
The House was so relaxed
that even Colonel Ockie Arm-
strong had loosened the white
stock he affected. All, in fact,
was normal for 1 a.m. in a good,
sound all-nighter. The Clerk’s
monocle had fallen off. Even the
Assistant-Clerk, a son of the
peerage, snored gently.
Joe was ploughing along at
160 words a minute, referring
occasionally to a volume, which
happened to be a copy of the
Congressional Record, out of
which he was translating a stir-
ring oration by some bull-moose
American Senator into terms
applicable to the condemnation
of the principle of building rail-
ways in Queensland through the
wrong electorate.
Up to this point he had been
very successful. The Press had
stayed awake a little longer than
usual. The Minister for Rail-
ways had been attentive, and
several times had bitten like a
Thompson River yellow-belly on
a dark night. But now suddenly
the Minister began to sag. The
lone occupant of the Treasury-
bench Brisbane Parliament
House was chock-full of com-
fortable bedrooms adjacent to
the chamber —he was gradually
curling up round his beard, and
from Joe’s point of view this
would never do.
Joe’s mission, in which he had
been sternly instructed by his
leader, was to keep the Minister
and his colleagues awake all
night, to wear them to a rag, to
make them unfit to face the rigors
of next day, during which it was
hoped that the debate would
survive. What end this served
nobody seemed to know, but it
was supposed to be “good Parlia-
mentary tactics.” And, with the
Labor party, allowing a
Minister to get forty-winks be-
tween midnight and breakfast-
time was the Parliamentary
equivalent to slicing off the
eighteenth green into the club
bar or being bowled l.b.w.
+ +
Joe was not long in noticing
his failure, and, being no piker
and a resourceful debater, he
took an extra long breath and
launched counter-measures. His
voice suddenly swelled in
indignation.
“I ask the Honorable
Minister,” he shouted, “to
answer this question: What does
he know about railways?
Where did he learn to be
Minister for Railways? He
doesn’t answer. He can’t
answer. He has no answer. How
could he know anything about
the subject ... or any subject.
Where he comes from so much
dust has blown into his ears
[“which he never washes,” Joe
added, after casting a hasty
glance at the sleeping Hansard]
that he cannot hear. The crows
perch on him believing him to
be a scarecrow, the billygoats
follow him because, as he
wanders down the Barcoo River,
his whiskers waving in the wind,
they mistake him for one of
themselves.”
At this stage the Minister
rolled himself up a little more
tightly.
“Look at him!” shouted Joe.
“Curled up like a superannuated
porcupine!”
Still no response from the
Honorable. He slept on while
Joe, a sudden glint coming into
his eyes, continued:
“You may well ask why they
elect this man who calls himself
a Minister for Railways. I can
only think that it is because the
electors of Barcoo —the so-called
electors of Barcoo, Mr. Speaker
—are all goats themselves, be-
cause” —
But Joe got no further.
Something like a hirsute
mortar-bomb shot into the air
off the Treasury-bench with a
loud yell of rage and indignation.
Hansard woke with a start. The
Press gallery woke. Dinny
Keogh woke and trod on his
own bunion. The Deputy-
Speaker let out a loud shriek of
“Order” —as if automatically—
and nearly overturned his bottle.
“Order,” he shouted. “What
is the Minister’s point of order?”
Now it was all very simple to
anybody who really understood
the inwardness of Queensland
Parliamentary life. The Minister
did not care, at 1 a.in., wnat Joe
said about him, because it was
not his business to care. His job
was to get a nice refreshing nap
(while sitting “in charge of the
House”), so that he would be
alert round eight o’clock in the
morning, when he hoped to
have the bill in committee and
to keep calling divisions so as to
wrest members of the Opposi-
tion, who had been busy form-
ing a quorum all night, from
their bacon-and-eggs.
But Ministers have a sense of
danger so acute that it is with
them even in their dreams. True,
this Minister had been returned
unopposed at the last election,
but the terrible year 1902 was
still sufficiently recent to be fresh
in his mind, the year in which,
after a lethal battle, he had only
succeeded in beating the doughty
foe by 627 to 478, having spent
all of £25 on the campaign.
Visions of the perils of the
next poll smote him in his sleep.
His submerged self could pass
over without comment Joe’s
personal reflections on himself,
but what might happen to him
next year if it was known on the
Barcoo that he had allowed a
sneering Labor member to
liken his constituents to members
of the genus capra without show-
ing resentment, yea, even at
1 a.m.?
“The honorable member’s
words are offensive to me,” he
yelled. “I ask for a withdrawal,
Mr. Deputy-Speaker. He called
my electors —the most intelligent
electors in Australasia, Mr.
Speaker—he called them goats.”
“In accordance with the Stand-
ing Orders, I withdraw and
apologise,” said Joe forthwith
(and before the Chair could
intervene), in a tone dripping old-
world courtesy. And he con-
tinued without a break or further
interruption; “Now, as I was
“No Member shall use offensive words against either House
of Parliament or any Member thereof, against any Member o
the Judiciary, or against any Statute unless for the purpose
moving its repeal.”—Standing Order No. 77, House of
Representatives.
saying, Mr. Speaker, the honor-
able Minister, the seaweed-like
fungus which he calls a beard
waving in the Barcoo wind
Back went everybody to sleep
except the Minister and Joe, who
had achieved his purpose. No
longer did the Minister dare to
sleep. Terrible things might be
said, offensive words which, if
not resented, might lose his
electors their character and him-
self his seat. Dawn found him
still upright, and Parliament with
another example to quote of the
uncertainty which surrounds the
phrase “unparliamentary
language.” For whether or not
language is unparliamentary
depends very much on how the
M.P. at the receiving-end takes it.
As the wild past, so in the tame
present personal descriptiveness
is a gamble in any Parliament.
The present Speaker of the
House of Representatives blazed
his way to fame before the late
war as the first Minister of the
Crown to be named and ejected
from a national House. He had
refused to withdraw the word
“cleanskin,” which he had
applied to an opponent who
didn’t know what a “cleanskin”
was and who had insisted that
it be withdrawn and apologised
for.
+ +
Yet Deakin likened Billy
Hughes to a small boy being
dragged screaming from a tart-
shop window, and I have heard a
Speaker in a State House refuse
to act when a distinguished
member was described as “look-
ing like a disgruntled horn-
beetle” the victim supporting the
ruling and adding significantly
that he would sooner be a horn-
beetle than a Norfolk Howard,
a term with which his opponent
was obviously not familiar.
With the passage of time in
Canberra the vocabulary of
tabooed Parliamentary persiflage
has expanded commendably ; in-
deed the phraseology of Par-
liamentary abuse has become
so well developed that there is
even a Speaker’s Dictionary on
it, as it were—a list of those
words and phrases which at
various times have been ruled
“unparliamentary” on the prin-
ciple that “if a member uses an
expression that is regarded by
another member as offensive it
must be withdrawn,” though it
is perfectly lawful and Parlia-
mentary to wade into humble
citizens outside the Houses who
have not the benefit of privi-
lege, though Speakers frown.
Even bills are safeguarded
from undue abuse. It has been
ruled unparliamentary to say
that a measure passed is
“iniquitous” or “an abortion of
a bill.” •
It is. disorderly to imply that
a subsidy has been paid to a
member or that a Minister is a
“mere echo of his officers. It
is “offensive” to describe a
Prime Minister as an “alleged
leader” or to suggest that some-
body in the House consorts
with anarchists,” though Mr.
Menzies last session persuaded
the House, against the Speaker’s
ruling, that it was not offensive
to describe Mr. Ward as having
associated with Communists, be-
cause a referendum had made
the Communist party into a nice,
apparently decent and ordinarily
legal political association.
Although it may be hard
lines on a member full'of pent-
up feelings, he is not entitled to
say that some valued colleague
is an adept at libel and slander,
abuses his privileges, is a “long-
haired emotional ass” or even
“adopts an asinine attitude.”
He cannot accuse a fellow-mem-
ber of engaging in backscratch-
ing proceedings or assassina-
tion. He cannot even describe
the Opposition as “beauties” or
one of its stalwarts as being in
some Minister’s bag.
Speakers have refused to
allow members to remark that
an honorable friend is betraying
the people, blinded by bias, a
blackguard, a blatherskite, a
blackmailer, blood - drinker,
bounder, miserable body-
snatcher, part of a brutal
majority, a brute, bully, bun-
kum-artist, burglar, cad, cant-
ing humbug or an addict to
clownish tricks or cocktailism.
An M.P., under the hard
rigor of Parliamentary rulings,
may not propagate the truth
that an adversary is a cowardly,
dirty hound, one of a corrupt
gang of burglars, a cowardly
tiling, a friend of the criminal-
class, a cur, damned, a con-
spirator, a petty claquer, or even
accuse him —unbelievable as it
may seem —of having told
damnable lies, talked damnable
nonsense, made a contemptible
remark, or helped a man into
his coffin.
All these gambits have been
tried and trodden firmly into the
Parliamentary earth, together
with the kind of charge which
imputes that some orator should
be “damn’-well ashamed of him-
self,” has talked damned non-
sense, is guilty of deceiving the
House or degrading it by his
presence.
It is unpardonable in Par-
liamentary debate to call another
M.P. a dingo, and the word
“dirty,” in most of about a
hundred combinations, has been
frowned upon. Neither can it
be admitted that any Parlia-
mentarian can be convicted of
giving a “discourteous reply,”
or doctoring a Hansard proof,
or being disgustingly servile, or
talking drivel, or even uttering
drunken interjections.
There can be, in Parliament,
no dumb dogs, dumb, driven
cattle, false Coons (alas, poor
Jabez, there went a man!), crea-
tures, fools, gaggers, garrotters,
old gangs, gasbags, goats,
heathens, humbugs, hypocrites,
ignoramuses, imbeciles, impos-
tors, informers, insects, jackals,
chattering jackasses, jabbering
nincompoops. Judases, friends
of the Kaiser, knaves and idiots,
lackeys, lap-dogs, larrikins or
liars.
All these are unknown to
proper Parliamentary language,
as has been discovered by using
them in debate, just as there are
no half - lunatics, mongrels,
mountebanks, murdering gangs
of thieves, nuisances, chattering
parrots, party hacks, pimps or
pimples, pro-Boers, insignificarit
pups, puppets, pushes, rats (dirty
or otherwise), rebels, renegade
wretches or rings.
Mentions of scabs are equally
banned in polite Parliamentary
intercourse, and so are refer-
ences to robbers, scarecrows,
scoundrels, sewer-rats,
skeletons, skunks, slanderers,
slimy reptiles, slippery eels,
sneaks, snipes, snobs, squibs,
swindlers, Tammany gangs,
thieves (40 or less), thugs—
unless, of course, they are mere
members of the outside public.
It is impermissible to call an
honorable fellow-member a
trickster or a toad in a cess-
pool, a petty tyrant, a twister, a
torturer, an unreasonable ani-
mal, unworthy character, a
waster, or a winey friend. These
epithets have all been tried on
the Parliamentary dog and
rejected by him.
All things that are “contempt-
ible” are barred. Buffoonery,
Chinese-like remarks, cant and
hypocrisy, buying political sup-
port, burking legislation, con-
spiracy, corruption, cowardice,
crawling, crime, creaking
speeches, damnable nonsense,
impudence, dastardly tricks, de-
ception, debts of dishonor, de-
liberate misstatements, despic-
able tricks, disgusting servility,
distortion, drivel, duplicity, fab-
rication, false pretences, com-
pounding of felonies and
deliberate misquotation of
figures—our honored forum will
have none of them when applied
to inmates.
-f- *+*
And if any candidate is going
up on May 29 with the intention
of branding a colleague as a
user of Fenian language, of fool-
ing, faking figures, fraud and
corruption, fraudulent practice,
of being “a member of the
fungus party” or of “grinning
like an ape at the lack of his
own intelligence,” let him be-
ware. The Sergeant-at-Arms will
get him and he will stand out-
side the Parliamentary bar for
days with his tongue hanging
out, his right to enter suspended.
Hogwash is something un-
known in Parliamentary eti-
quette if not to its idiom. “Hunt-
ing a member till he is politic-
ally dead” is the equivalent of
shooting foxes with a shot-gun
in the Pytchley country. Charg-
ing some M.P. with asking
idiotic questions, moving hypo-
critical amendments, becoming a
humiliating spectacle, being im-
pertinent, inane, incorrect, in-
accurate, insincere, insulting,
intriguing or Jesuitical —these
things are simply not done as
far as Speakers’ rulings go.
It is offensive to accuse a Par-
liamentarian of “putting up a
job” or “laughing at the case of
starving men”; of log-rolling,
being low, making mad state-
ments or malevolent charges, of
misleading deliberately or wil-
fully, of saying something in a
nasty way, of being nobbled, not
sincere or not honest, not sober
or not man enough to do some-
thing.
You cannot say the leader of
the Opposition is not worthy of
notice, or is playing it down low,
or playing to the gallery, or
indulging in pretence or sham
or prevarication, prostituting his
position, being paid to make
interjections, indulging in sewer-
age politics, selling his soul and
principles.
M.P.s cannot threaten to
screw the necks of other mem-
bers, accuse them of scrambling
for pay, skulking, stonewalling,
stabbing in the back, standing
((Continued on page 34)


(Czr'\ ML
rs- ry
/
m
I ft- hr
tit
si
:■'■■■' •>
/ JO.*
ADD
without FAG!
WITH A
contex
£23/io/-
personal portable
Handsome
carrying case,
55/- extra.
ADDING MACHINE
Thousands of country as well as city users.
Here’B a “lifesaver” for the man who is plagued with “doing
the books. Contes eliminates tedious additions, and exaspera-
ting errors. Centex supplies the answers with infallible accuracy
in iL.s.d., whole numbers, decimals, weights or measures. Any-
one can use it efficiently after 5 minutes’ practice.
Write to
CHARTRES
Ltd.
SYDNEY:
169 Liverpool St.
MELBOURNE:
375 Collins St.
BRISBANE :
256-278 Wickham St.,
Valley
ADELAIDE :
29 Grenfell St.
PERTH:
E. C. Stott & Co.
Howard St.
Also at:
HOBART, LAUNCESTON,
DEVONPORT
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SPORTING NOTIONS
Fields of fewer than half a
dozen horses in some races, with
odds-on and other short-priced
favorites in several events, keep
the small punter from racing. No
doubt this has been impressed
upon members of the A.J.C.
committee following the autumn
carnival at Randwick, Twenty-
seven races were decided over
the four days, but in 13 there
were insufficient starters for a
three-place dividend, and in
some the win-only tote operated.
Attendance over Randwick’s
four days dropped 28,000 com-
pared with 1953, and the AJ.C.
lost about £16,000 in revenue
from various sources. The com-
mittee will probably give con-
siderable thought to the pro-
gramme for the 1955 autumn
fixture. It already has made wise
changes for this year’s spring
carnival, and it should get a
guide from those alterations. It
seems extraordinary that with
close on 700 horses in training
at Randwick and Rosebery, apart
from those at other tracks, there
should be such small fields at
such an important fixture ; the
fact, of course, is that there are
far more moderates than class
gallopers.
First thoughts proved best so
far as the Sydney Cup was con-
cerned, but many who had
fancied New Zealand stayer Gold
Scheme went cold on him after
his defeat by Euphrates in the
Autumn Stakes on the opening
day at Randwick. However, all
that that run did was to make
him more solid for the Cup, and
he won in fast time from Double
Blank and Priory. Euphrates
finished down the course.
• • » •
Gold Scheme, selected by this
page to win the Cup, was assisted
to - victory by N. Sellwood’s
masterly tactics. He took the
shortest route to the winning-
post. The New Zealander was
lame after the race. Cups can
be tough on winners. Many
Melbourne Cup winners either
didn’t race again or didn’t later
add much to stake-earnings.
Ace Pilot, 80-to-l winner of
the AJ.C. Fernhill Handicap—
the only two-year-old mile race
programmed for that age-group
—had not beaten a runner home
in the Wentworth Handicap five
days earlier, when he was also an
outsider. Saturday he had the
race in safe keeping a long way
from home and this time acted
in accord with early-morning
trials. Ace Pilot, who cost 475
guineas as a yearling and is
raced by H. Porter, is by Talk-
ing from Will Bet by Spear
Chief from Gold Grand by
Grand Joy. Incidentally, five of
the seven winners on the final
day were the progeny of locally-
bred sires.
The Darby Munro touch was
strongly in evidence in the
AJ.C, Plate, which he won for
the seventh time when New Zea-
land-owned Lancaster, who
came to Sydney for the Cup but
missed a place, downed his only
two opponents. Electro and
Royal Forest (two moderate
three-year-olds), without much
trouble. Lancaster had proved
a handful for Dominion jockey
R. Skelton in the Sydney Cup,
but Munro saw to it that he
didn’t get much of his own way
in the weight-for-age race.
Lancaster, a gelding, is a
dyed-in-the-wool stayer, not
altogether handsome. He has a
big stride and covers a lot of
ground, and even Munro didn’t
find him the easiest of horses to
handle. Lancaster will be given
a brief respite and may then be
set for the Brisbane Cup in
mid-winter. He has been trans-
ferred for the time being to the
F. W. Kennedy stable, which
shelters Euphrates, Belshazzar,
Midswell and other smart gal-
lopers.
Apart from long trackwork,
stayer Captain Hunter has
covered nearly 13 miles in races
“Now see if I can ace YOU!”
since he finished third in the
V.R.C. Australian Cup at Flem-
ington on February 27. He has
had eight starts during those two
months and must be as hard as
nails. Anyway, it was his solid
condition, plus Sellwood’s smart
riding, that won the Dangar
Handicap. The gelding won one
other race over the period men-
tioned, the V.R.C. Autumn
Handicap, over the same dis-
tance as the Dangar, 13 furlongs.
He is a son of 1944 Melbourne
Gup-winner, Sirius, from Ros-
ado, a Silverado (imp.) mare
from Roscome by Rossendale
(imp.), and was bred by T. C.
Manifold, It’s Funny, a winner
of the A.J.C. St. Leger, and Kil-
boy, a winner of the A.J.C.
Derby, figures in the bloodlines.
It will be hard luck for owner
Malcolm Campbell should his
grey Nizami (imp.) gelding
Silver Phantom not be able to
race again. The Australian
mile-record holder pulled up
badly after finishing a close
second to Grand Vite in the
Final Handicap at Randwick, in
which he carried 9.3 and Grand
Vite 7.9. When Silver Phantom
was unsaddled and examined,
trainer Jack Green indicated
that the grey’s racing career
probably had ended. The grey’s
best win was in the A.J.C. Epsom
last October. Another serious
casualty of the meeting was Gold
Scheme, who broke down in the
Sydney Cup.
Moonee Valley punters obvi-
ously didn’t take two-year-old
Bright Beam’s win earlier in
the week at face-value because
they allowed him to go out at
7 to 2 for the Puckle Handicap,
but he won easily. Presence of
the well - performed Clear
Springs in the small field evi-
dently swayed most backers;
they sent him to the post at 7-
to-4 on, but he was a disappoint-
ing third. A particularly smart
pony called Bright Beam raced
on Sydney tracks many years
ago.
Edelweiss was a moderately-
priced yearling at 270gns. She
was bred by Randwick paddock
bookmaker Ken Ranger, and is
by former sprinter Cragsman
from Bintail, a half-sister to
Alister (dual Derby winner).
Bintail is by Burham Ali (imp.)
from New Flower by Nuffield,
so Edelweiss might prove a use-
ful staying mare in the coming
season. A week prior to win-
ning the Princess Handicap at
Randwick she had finished
second at a mile and a quarter at
Rosehill, and on Saturday last
she won again, the £3OOO Adrian
Knox Stakes.
Brisbane has produced some
smart two-year-olds this season,
and one of them. Town Buzz,
carried 9.7 to victory at the
latest Doomben meeting. The
Maytown gelding ran the five
furlongs in smart time, Imin.
Isec., and started at 5 to 4 on,
but he won by only half a head.
His dam. Aftermatch, was got
by The Buzzard (imp.) from
Splitting Head by Highfield.
It may be hoped that the
owners of Gallant Archer, who
paid 6500gns. for the yearling-
brother to Forest Beau at the
Randwick auction, will experi-
ence better fortune than did the
buyers of some earlier high-
priced yearlings. The record-
priced Dominant (6750gn5.)
wasn’t of much account, and
Nargoon (6500gn5.) has yet to
get his nafhe in the headlines.
Deep River (6000gns.) did pay
his way with a win in the A.J.C.
Derby and in other races, but
Avaunt Courier (5500gn5.) never
flattered his optimistic pur-
chasers. Tengur (5250gn5.) was
another who failed to make the
grade. On the other side of the
picture, many for whom
thousands were paid did win a
lot of money for their venture-
some owners, including
Hydrogen (3200gn5.).
As usual, the historic Grand
National Steeplechase at Ain tree
(Eng.) was this year a gruelling
test over the 4j miles of tough
country with 30 hazardous
jumps. Only nine of 29 starters
completed the course. Four of
the runners were killed, or had
to be destroyed. Steeplechases
were conducted by the A.J.C.
many years ago, but they were
mild affairs, and it wasn’t be-
cause of any cruelty angle that
the club dropped them. At Ain-
tree the winner, Royal Tan, and
runner-up, Tudor Lad, were un-
mercifully belted in the close
finish. One who witnessed it
wrote: “As an Australian seeing
the National for the first time, I
felt quite ill. The first three
horses were so tired they could
hardly lift their front legs and
their riders kept using the whips
shamefully. The third horse had
its tongue right out. The win-
ner certainly earned his stake-
money. Amenities were lacking
and there was no broadcast. By
Australian standards it was a
poor show, yet admission to
stands cost £6 65., £2 10s. and
£l. English executives should
send officials to Australia. They
would learn much at present
lacking on English courses.”
♦ * ♦
Manly’s 6-6 draw with Uni-
versity on Saturday kept Uni.
pegged level with St. George at
the head of the Sydney Rugby
Union comp. The other shock
was Drummoyne turning on
something like its old forward
game to down Gordon, 11-3. St.
George swamped Eastwood,
19-8, Randwick beat Norths
22-8, and Eastern Suburbs had
their first win, at Parramatta’s
expense, 24-8.
“K.R.”: N.S.W. won the
Soccer carnival played over
Easter in Adelaide, with W.A.
and Victoria runners-up. Soccer
probably could produce the most
evenly-balanced competition be-
tween the States of any football
code—no doubt because of the
diffusion of British migrants and
New Australians, who have given
the round-ball game a big fillip
in recent years. The Tasmanians
were the wooden-spooners in
Adelaide; but a Tasmanian won
the trophy for the outstanding
player at the carnival —A.
Harmsen, who hails originally
from Holland.
* * *
There was one big shock in
the second round of V.F.L.
games, played generally in gusty
weather. Geelong, after having
thrashed Fitzroy, was beaten at
home by North Melbourne
(9.15-8.12). Essendon, without
John Coleman, could manage
only 5.18 to Souths’B.l3. In the
other games Collingwood (12.12)
beat Fitzroy (5.8); Hawthorn
(10.10) beat St. Kilda (5.9), after
kicking 6.4 to nil in the first
quarter; Melbourne (15.11)
beat Carlton (12,10); and Rich-
mond (12.19) had slightly the
better of Footscray (9.19).
* * *
The 1954 Stawell Gift was won
by 20-year-old Rutherglen foot-
baller-runner Jack Hayes in the
fastest time (ll.Ssec.) in a final
since 1938. Hayes’s good time
was due to some extent to the
generous handicaps allotted be-
cause of Herb McKenley’s
presence—McKenley, off scratch,
was eliminated in the semi-finals,
after dead-heating for first in his
heat in 12.25ec., Byds. inside
evens! Hayes, off 9yds,, was
odds-on favorite; his win was
the costliest to the ring for quite
a few years. The Bendigo
Guineas, run a couple of nights
later, was won by Jack Trusler,
who finished second in the Gift,
with Hayes this time in second
place.
Hayes took to running to
improve his football. He’s now a
top-line follower in the Ovens
and Murray League, with some
of the V.F.L. teams, Essendon in
particular, keen to get him. His
trainer for the Gift, Jack King,
chalked-up his fourth winner,
the first of ’em back in 1908 —
and claims a fifth, Jack Pattison,
who lost a hotly-disputed decision
to Gerald Hutchinson in 1951 in
a very tight finish.


I’ve seen the crowd when a
stadium announcer tells about the
two fighters. I only get about
half of it and I stand there,
gawping.
The magistrate leans forward
a little and catches my eye.
“You are charged with
murder,” he says. “How do you
plead?”
“Not guilty,” I says.
“You may sit down.”
I sit down and the man sitting
by McLardie gets up.
“Your Worship,” he says, “the
prosecution asks for an adjourn-
ment to a date to be fixed.”
“We’ll see, Mr, Brady. Mr.
Mellish, I understand you are
for the accused?”
Mellish gets up. He don’t look
at me. I look at Joyce Martin.
She gives me that little smile
again.
“That’s so, your Worship. We
don’t oppose an adjournment.
We ask for bail.”
“Mr. Brady?”
“No objection, your Worship,
providing it is substantial.”
His Worship opens a book and
writes in it.
“The case is adjourned to —
let me see?—to the twenty-ninth
day of April next. I fix bail in the
sum of five-hundred pounds.
Mr. Mellish?”
“Thank you, your Worship.
It will be arranged.”
The man who sang before
sings again.
“This court now stands
adjourned sinee dye” or some-
thing and everybody stands
again. The magistrate gets up
and goes out.
I sit down. Something gives
inside me and I start shaking
and feel sick and sit there with
my head in my hands. I’m look-
ing down at the floor, but I don't
see it.
Because it hits me this is only
the beginning. I got a long way
to go before I can get out of this.
I’m on five-hundred bail and
Five-hundred!
Where the hell will I get five-
hundred?
“Come on, Delaney.”
The cop has opened the side
of the dock. There’s only him
and me left. I didn’t hear the
others go.
The cop takes me across the
court-room and through a door,
along a passage a little way, into
an office, X don’t get time to see
who’s there.
Because Joyce Martin runs at
me and puts her arms round me
and holds me and gives me one
kiss and then puts her head on
my chest and cries like she’ll
never stop. She cries and grips
me and makes funny little sounds
and I guess I damn’ near cry
myself. You been where I been
and then a lovely redhead like
Joyce throws herself at you and
cries on you, you know how I
feel.
6. Joyce Martin
takes any notice of
us. Mellish is signing papers
and from where I am I see
money lying on the counter.
There’s a bald man waiting for
Mellish, and behind him the
fellow done the singing in court
is sitting down at a typewriter.
The cop brought me in stands
by. I look at him and he gives
me a look and looks away. He’s
younger than me and maybe t e
wishes he was me, just for the
time I got my arms round Joyce
Martin.
Mellish says, “Sign here,
Delaney.”
No mister now. I’m just
Delaney to him.
I sign where he shows me.
“And here.”
I sign again. Baldy takes the
money. Then he shoves a parcel
at me. “Your things,” he says.
I open it and put my watch on
and the other things in my
pockets.
Mellish turns to the door. He
don’t look at me. What’s wrong
with him? Joyce has broke loose
of me and she takes my arm and
leads me after Mellish.
We go along the passage a little
way and through an arch on to
a veranda and there’s a flash.
The fat newspaper boy is look-
ing at us and beside him the
cameraman pulling the flashed
bulb out.
I jump for him, grab the
camera, jerk the plate out and
expose it to the sun. He makes
a grab but I give him the heel of
my right hand and shove him
back.
The fat man bristles.
“You can’t do that!” he
squeals. “We’re the Press.”
I shove him away.
“What’s the trouble?” says the
young cop.
“No trouble,” I says. “Just
these runts don’t take my picture
without I say so.* That’s all.”
“We’re the Press,” the fat man
yelps.
“Call out the Marines,” I tell
him.
“You better do something
about this,” Fatty tells the cop.
The cop turns and walks
inside.
Mellish is sitting in the blue
sedan by the kerb. Joyce tugs
my arm.
“Must you be so difficult?” she
snaps.
We make for the car.
“You think it worries me about
my pictures?” I ask.
She looks at me.
“You’re a good sort, kid,” I
tell her. “So I’m not having
your picture in no paper.”
She looks at me again. The
tears start up.
“Oh, Del. I didn’t realise —1
thought”
We’re at the car. She gets in
under the wheel, alongside
Mellish. I still got the camera
and the fat man and the camera-
man dancing round yelling. A
few people stop and watch it. I
put on an act. I half-shut my
eyes and stick out my jaw and
push my face at the newspaper
boys.
They go back and look at each
other.
I put the camera on the kerb
and slide into the rear seat of the
car Joyce hits the accelerator
and we go away from there.
So we’re back in Mellish’s
office and him sitting there look-
ing at me. Joyce Martin sits
where she sat before. Mellish
don’t make with the cigarettes or
the Scotch this time. He sits there
with his arms on his desk and
his fingers laced together.
“We want you to understand,
Delaney,” he says, and his voice
is cold, “when we heard about
Detective Jardine being shot and
you being found alone with him
we concluded that either you
feared him and killed him, or
that the two of you had
fought and Jardine was shot. We
concluded that you had not been
honest with us, that you were
engaged in some nefarious
scheme which the late Lloyd
Carson may or may not have
known about, that the mysterious
Mitchell person was merely an
accomplice of yours, and we
further concluded that it was
best we wash our hands of you.”
That’s what he says. I sit there
and look at him. TTien I look at
Joyce. She’s stroking the back
of her left hand with the fingers
of her right. Both her hands are
gloved. She’s stroking slow and
looking down at her hands.
I wait for Mellish to say some
more. But he’s had his say—so
f &r
“Well?” he says.
“Look,” I says, “I don’t owe
you nothing. You butt-in when
the cops grab me the first time.
When I go to them about this
Mitchell. You butt-in and get
me out of there because you’re
handling Carson’s business and
because you got notions about
things being wrong with his
accident. O.K. You get me up
here and give me talk and what
it amounts to is you hear this
Mitchell on the phone and you
get notions about Carson and
you want me to start in as a kind
of shamus”
“Shamus?”
“It’s a word they got for
undercover men, private dees,
kind of spies. Well, you want
me to start poking round this
dump looking for something on
Carson. You’re a lawyer, Mr.
Mellish, and you ought to know
anybody starts that he gets the
police on his neck first chance
they get. Listen, I’m no cop. I
know all about Sherlock Holmes
and Lemmy Caution and them
other book marvels. I know
something else. I know they got
to be lucky and win. Because
it’s set when they start. Them
writers rig up a couple of
murders and a big jewel-grab and
maybe forged papers and a
couple of hot numbers in skirts
and bung their Sherlocks and
Sam Spades in the middle of it
and the hero works it out. He’s
got to work it out or it ain’t a
book. You’re a lawyer, Mr.
Mellish. You know what the
law is and about the police and
the way they’d buck anyone like
me started in to be a Sherlock.
You been reading too many of
these mystery books. You got
carried away. Me, I got no
notions about butting-in on
police work. I got a living to
get. So you put it up to me and
I knock it back. Because I don’t
know a thing about Carson and
all I know about Mitchell is
what I told you. So I knock ;t
back, and walk out of here. You
know what turned up then.”
“The meeting with Jardine,
you mean?”
“That’s right.”
“Would you mind telling us
precisely what happened?”
“I could of told you yester-
day. When I sent for you. After
“You’re insanely jealous.”
they pinched me. But you wasn t
interested. You told me to get
the Public Defender.”
“Tell us now.”
So I tell him. He just sits there,
with his fingers laced together,
and looks at me and listens.
Joyce listens, too. She isn’t
stroking her fingers any more,
just sitting there, with her hazel
eyes on me, listening.
“And you’ve no idea,” Mellish
asks, “what Jardine was looking
for? Why he went to your
room?”
“That’s right. No idea.”
“Have you thought about it?”
“You get pinched and they
want to pin a murder on you and
I guess you’d be thinking about
it.”
“H’m.” He gets up and walks
about behind his desk, his grey
head bent and his hands behind
his back. Then he stops, leans
his hands on the desk and peers
at me.
“You went to your room to get
your things and leave Murray-
ford?”
“That’s right.”
“And Jardine was there. He
had your bag open and was
searching in it. Not seeing who
it was for the moment, you
attacked him. When you saw
who it was you stood back.
Then he took a pistol from his
pocket and before you could
stop him he put it in his mouth
and shot himself?”
“That’s the way it was.”
“And you’ve no idea why he
was in your room?”
“Hell, haven’t I told you
that?”
Mellish put a hand up and
ran it through his hair and
sighed. He sits down again and
put his arms on the desk and
laces his fingers together again.
“Delaney,” he says, and his
voice gets a kind of ring in it
which makes me sit up.
“Delaney, we won’t beat about
the bush. There’s something
very strange here, very strange
indeed. If we accept your state-
ment as the truth it becomes
more than strange. It becomes
fantastic. So fantastic that we're
afraid it would not make a very
good defence. On the other
hand, if, as the police appear to
believe, your statement is not
true, then it ceases to be fantastic
and becomes a comparatively
simple assumption. And that
assumption will be, if we forecast
the prosecution’s attitude rightly,
that Jardine, following on your
earlier fracas at the police-station
when you went there with what
appeared to be a ridiculous state-
ment about this person Mitchell,
that Jardine discovered some-
thing about you, went to your
room, you resisted him, there
was a struggle and you shot him.
We”
“But you know about
Mitchell. He telephoned you,
too.”
“True. Somebody calling him-
self Mitchell telephoned us.
But, and this is the point we’re
leading to, unless we can produce
this person we doubt very much
whether the evidence about him
would be even admitted. It is
no good saying a person said or
did anything unless we can
produce that person.”
“But you’re a lawyer! They’d
have to take your word. They’d
have to listen to you!”
Mellish purses his lips and
shakes his head.
“Delaney, without Mitchell the
prosecution would laugh at it.
And so, we’re afraid, would the
jury-”
So that’s the way it is. I sit
back and shove my hands in my
pockets and don’t feel so good.
Because the way Mellish puts it
scares me. I been in a lot of
wild mix-ups in my time, and
sometimes I been in ’em wrong,
but this is sure the daddy of the
whole flaming lot, and I’m
in it wrong! I’ll say I’m in
wrong, as far in and as wrong
as I could be.
Because Detective - Inspector
McLardie means to pin murder
on me and the only alibi I got is
worth about fourpence a dozen,
way this Mellish sees it.
So I’m plenty scared. I stay
plenty scared for a while, then
my back starts getting up. Be-
cause Delaney don’ lie down
just because somebody tries to
pin a murder on him. Even if I
done a murder I wouldn’t lie
down and let anyone pin it on
me. They pin it on me they got
to earn it.
I sit up and look Mellish full
in the eye.
“You think I shot Jardine?”
“At first, no. Then we thought
it likely. Later, thinking it over
and discussing it with Miss
Martin here, we weren’t so sure.
You see, there was the strange
business about Lloyd Carson.”
“Is that why you come to the
court and put up the five-
hundred bail?”
“Well —er perhaps Miss
Martin can answer that?”
“You answer it. You’re the
one thought I shot him,”
I got my back up about him,
too. Because he ignored it when
I sent for him and left me for
that Keesing to play about with.
Mellish spreads his hands.
Then he draws them in and holds
the edge of his desk with them
and leans forward and fixed his
eyes on me.
“All right,” he says. “Let us
clear the air, as it were. When
Miss Martin brought you to us
we asked you to co-operate with
us. But you had a chip on your
shoulder —you’ve still got a chip
on your shoulder —though we
want to be your friend in this
matter. If we are to defend you
we must be your friend. But
you’re full of suspicion and
distrust and”
“Reckon I got reason to be.”
“Perhaps you have, perhaps
you have. But not with us. Par-
ticularly not with Miss Martin.
Nearly all that bail money is
hers. She”
“What!”
I whirl and look at her.
She’s got her head down and
looking at me under her eyes.
She’s got the glove off her left
hand and twisting it in her two
hands.
“That’s why it took so long,’
she says. I can just hear her.
“Mr. Mellish couldn’t do any-
thing till I got the money. I had
to wire for it. It took until this
morning. Oh, Del, I got it as
fast as I could.”
“But I—but you”
“I just couldn’t see you left
there. Alone in that prison.
Really# I couldn’t. It made me
feel so awfully guilty. I”
“Guilty?”
“Yes. Because it was through
me —because I thought you were
Ross. It seemed so awful. You’d
come looking for Mr. Carson
and because I was so stupid it
started this horrible business.
With the police, I mean.”
She turned away a little in the
chair and hunched her shoulders
and sobbed. She’s too upset to
make sense, I nearly got it, but
not quite. I look at Mellish.
“This poor girl,” he says, “has
been under a very severe strain.
The death of Mr. Carson was a
very great shock to her, as you
may well imagine. Then you
appeared, Delaney, and you
know what has. happened since.
When she heard about Jardine
and your arrest she was quite
stunned. So were we, if we may
say so. She begged of us to do
something for you, but—and we
make no apologies for it except
to say that now we believe it was l
a mistake —your attitude and the
circumstances led us to —well,
refuse. We have a respectable
practice here, Delaney, and
defending criminal cases is a little
outside our scope”——
“Never mind about the policy
speech. What about her?”
His eyes get kind of chilly and
he looks like he’d kick my slats
in, only his practice is so
respectable. Then he sighs.
“Yoti persist,” he says, “in this
surly and suspicious attitude.
For one who will face a serious
charge in five-weeks time
you”
“Look,” I cuts in, mad because
Joyce is still sobbing, “you ever
hear of a character called
Popeye the Sailor?”
He gapes at me.
“He’s in one of them comic-
strips,” I tell him. “I used to
read it when I was a kid. He’s a
tough item, see. People talk
to him like you just talked to me,
that about surly and suspicious,
what Popeye says means you take
him or you leave him. That’s the
way it is with me, Mr. Mellish.
You say we ought to be friends.
O.K. We ought to be friends.
But you’re going to be friends
you got to take me the way I am.
Get it?”
His eyes are still chilly and I
watch him. I hear Joyce using
her handkerchief and straighten-
ing herself up, but I don’t look
at her.
Then she says, real fierce,
“You both make me sick!”
(To be continued next week )


/ON INTERIOR
WALLS AND CEILINGS
When building your NEW HOME, use
"DURABESTOS" Flat Sheets for lining
internal walls and ceilings. Cover joints
neatly, quickly with "Anaglypta" cover
strip, then paint right over the strip the
same colour as the walls and ceiling—for
"Durabestos" lends itself admirably to
decoration with the many delightful pastel
paints available to-day. ,
I t
FREE! Write to Wunderlich Limited, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney, for FREE Home Design
Booklet and sample of "Anaglypta.”
D'~~fsundtSilicA
URABESTOS
ASBESTOS-CEMENT.BUILDING! SHEETS
READILY AVAILABLE FROM
LOCAL DISTRIBUTORS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUES DBMS U.S. DEFENCE
When changes in the Ameri-
can defence set-up were recently
announced, a good deal of
emphasis was laid on the deter-
rent value of instant and massive
retaliation by atomic air-power.
Critics —and there were many—
thereupon conjured up pictures
of Uncle Sam relying almost
entirely on ability to deliver a
king-hit to anyone who stepped
out of line, on which false pre-
mise they went on to discover all
manner of weaknesses in such a
policy.
In an article (here abridged)
in the current issue of “Foreign
Affairs” U.S. Secretary of State
John Foster Dulles sets out hi§
Government’s attitude with ad-
mirable clarity:
“Under the conditions in
which we live it is not easy to
strike a perfect balance between
military and non-military efforts
and to choose the type of mili-
tary effort which serves us best.
The essential is to recognise
that there is an imperative need
for a balance which holds mili-
tary expenditures to a minimum
consistent with safety, so that
a maximum of liberty may oper-
ate as a dynamic force against
despotism. That is the goal of
our policy.
The Threat ,
“The Soviet menace does not
reflect the ambitions of a single
ruler, and cannot be measured
by his life-expectancy. There is
no evidence that basic Soviet
policies have been changed with
the passing of Stalin. Indeed,
the Berlin conference of last
February gave positive evidence
to the contrary. The Soviet Com-
munists have always professed
that they are planning for what
they call ‘an entire historical
era.’
“The assets behind this threat
are vast. The Soviet bloc of
Communist-controlled countries
—a new form of imperialist
colonialism —represents a vast
central land-mass with a popu-
lation of 800,000,000. About
10,000,000 men are regularly
under arms, with many more
trained millions in reserve.
“This land-force occupies a
central position which permits
of striking at any one of about
twenty countries along a peri-
meter of some 20,000 miles. It
is supplemented by increasing
air-power, equipped with atomic
weapons, able to strike through
northern Arctic routes which
bring our [United States] indus-
trial areas in range of quick
attack.
“The threat is not merely mili-
tary. The Soviet operates with
trained agitators and a powerful
propaganda organisation. It ex-
ploits every area of discontent,
whether it be political discontent
against ‘colonialism’ or social
discontent against economic con-
ditions. It seeks to harass the
existing order and pave the way
for political coups which will
install Communist-controlled
regimes.
“By the use of many types of
manoeuvres and threats, military
and political, the Soviet rulers
seek gradually to divide and
weaken the free nations and to
make their policies appear as
bankrupt by overextending them
in efforts which, as Lenin put
it, are ‘beyond their strength.’
Then, said Lenin, ‘our victory
is assured.’ Then, said Stalin,
will be the ‘moment for the de-
cisive blow.’
The Answer
“An answer to this danger
can be found by drawing on
those basic concepts which have
come to be regularly practised
within our civic communities.
There we have almost wholly
given up the idea of relying
primarily on house-by-house
defence. Instead, primarily reli-
ance is placed upon the combin-
ing of two concepts, namely, the
creation of power on a com-
munity basis and the use of that
power so as to deter aggression
by making it costly to an aggres-
sor. The free nations must apply
these same principles in the
international sphere.
“The cornerstone of security
for the free nations must be a
collective-system of defence. No
single nation can develop for it-
self defensive power of adequate
scope and flexibility.
“That is true of the United
States. Without the co-operation
of allies, we would not even be
in a position to retaliate mas-
sively against the war industries
of an attacking nation.
“The Inter-American Treaty of
Reciprocal Assistance (Rio
Pact) of 1947 set a post-war ex-
ample in establishing the prin-
ciple that an armed attack
against one would be considered
as an attack against all. The
North Atlantic Treaty is based
on the same principle. Its mem-
bers have gone much further in
organising joint forces and facili-
ties as a part of the integrated
security-system,
“There are other areas where
the same concept is evolving.
An example is the Western
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
GENEVA WORKOUT
“Now let me show you the back flip-flop.”
Pacific, where the United States
has a series of collective-security
treaties which now embrace Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, the Philip-
pines, Japan and Korea. Col-
lective arrangements are now in
the making in the Middle East,
with Turkey-Pakistan as the
nucleus.
“The question remains: How
should collective defence be
organised by the free world for
maximum protection at mini-
mum cost? The heart of the
problem is how to deter attack.
This, we believe, requires that
a potential aggressor be left in
no doubt that he woud be cer-
tain to suffer damage outweigh-
ing any possible gains from
aggression.
“This result would not be
assured, even by collective
measures, if the free world
sought to match the potential
Communist forces, man for man
and tank for tank, at every point
where they might attack. The
Soviet-Chinese bloc does not lack
manpower and spends it as
something cheap.
“If an aggressor knew he could
always prescribe the battle con-
ditions that suited him and en-
gage us in struggles mainly in-
volving manpower, aggression
might be encouraged. He would
be tempted to attack in places
and by means where his man-
power superiority was decisive
and where at little cost he could
impose upon us great burdens.
If the free world adopted that
strategy, it could bankrupt itself
and not achieve security over a
sustained period.
The Method
“The free world must devise a
better strategy for its defence,
based on its own special assets.
Its assets include, especially, air-
and naval-power and atomic
weapons which are now avail-
able in a wide range, suitable
not only for strategic bombing
but also for extensive tactical
use. The free world must make
imaginative use of the deterrent
capabilities of these new weapons
and mobilities and exploit the
full potential of collective secur-
ity. Properly used, they can
produce defensive power able
to retaliate at once and effectively
against any aggression.
“To deter aggression, it is im-
portant to have the flexibility
and the facilities which make
various responses available. In
many cases, any open assault by
Communist forces could only re-
sult in starting a general war.
But the free world must have
the means for responding effec-
tively on a selective basis when
it chooses. It must not put it-
self in the position where the
only response open to it is
general war.
“The essential thing is that a
potential aggressor should know
in advance that he can and will
be made to suffer for his aggres-
sion more than he can possibly
gain by it. This calls for a
system in which local defensive
strength is reinforced by more
mobile deterrent-power. The
method of doing so will vary
according to the character of the
various areas.
“Some areas are so vital that a
special guard should and can be
put around them. Western
Europe is such an area. Its
industrial plant represents so
nearly the balance of industrial
power in the world that an
aggressor might feel that it was a
good gamble to seize it—even at
the risk of considerable hurt to
himself. In this respect Western
Europe is exceptional. Fortun-
ately, the West European coun-
tries have both a military tradi-
tion and a large military poten-
tial, so that through a European
Defence Community, and with
support by the United States
and Britain, they can create an
adequate defence of the Conti-
nent.
Local Defence
“Most areas within the reach
of an aggressor offer less value
to him than the loss he would
suffer from well-conceived re-
taliatory measures. Even in such
areas, however, local defence
will always be important.
“In every endangered area
there should be a sufficient mili-
tary establishment to maintain
order against subversion and to
resist other forms of indirect
aggression and minor satellite
aggressions. This serves the in-
dispensable need to demonstrate a
purpose to resist, and to compel
any aggressor to expose his real
intent by such serious fighting
as will brand him before all the
world and promptly bring col-
lective measures into operation,
“Potential aggressors have
little respect for peoples who
have no will to fight for their
own protection or to make the
sacrifices needed to make that
fighting significant. Also, they
know that such peoples do not
attract allies to fight for their
cause. For all of these reasons,
local defence is important. But
in such areas the main reliance
must be on the power of the
free community to retaliate with
great force by mobile means at
places of its own choice.
“A would-be aggressor will
hesitate to commit aggression if
he knows in advance that he
thereby not only exposes those
particular forces which he
chooses to use for his aggression
but also deprives his other assets
of ‘sanctuary’ status,’
“That does not mean turning
every local war into a world
war. It does not mean that if
there is a Communist attack
somewhere in Asia, atom- or
hydrogen-bombs will necessarily
be dropped on the great indus-
tries of China or Russia.
“It does mean that the free
world must maintain the collec-
tive means and be willing to
use them in the way which most
effectively makes aggression too
risky and expensive to be tempt-
ing.
“It is sometimes said that this
system is inadequate because it
assures an invaded country only
that it will eventually be liber-
ated and the invader punished.
That observation misses the
point. The point is that a
prospective attacker is not likely
to invade if he believes the prob-
able hurt will outbalance the
probable gain. A system which
compels potential aggressors to
face up to that fact indis-
pensably supplements a local
defensive system,
“We can already begin to see
applications of these policies.
Korea Example
“In Korea the forces fighting
aggression had been so closely
limited that they were forbidden
even to apply the doctrine of
‘hot pursuit’ in relation to enemy
planes that were based across the
Yalu. The airfields from which
attacks were mounted were
immune, as were the lines and
sources of their supply.
“The fighting there was finally
stopped on terms which had
been proposed many months
before. That result was achieved,
at least in part, because the
aggressor, already denied terri-
torial gains, was faced with the
possibility that the fighting
might, to his own great peril,
soon spread beyond the limits
and methods which he had
selected, to areas and methods
that we would select.
“In other words, the principle
of using methods of our choice
was ready to be invoked, and
it helped to stop the war which
the enemy had begun and had
pursued on the theory that it
would be a limited war, at places
and by means of its choosing.
“The sixteen members of the
United Nations who fought in
Korea have invoked the same
principle. They have given pub-
lic notice that, if the Com-
munists were to violate the armis-
tice and renew the aggression,
the response of the United
Nations Command would not
necessarily be confined to Korea.
To-day, if aggression were re-
sumed, the United Nations Com-
mand would certainly feel free
to inflict heavy damage upon
the aggressor beyond the imme-
diate area which he chose for
his aggression.
“That need not mean indulging
in atomic warfare throughout
Asia. It should not be stated in
advance precisely what would
be the scope of military action
if new aggression occurred.
That is a matter as to which the
aggressor had best remain ignor-
ant. But he can know and does
know, in the light of present
policies, that the choice in this
respect is ours and not his.
“We do not, of course, claim to
have found some magic formula
that insures against all forms of
Communist successes. Despot-
ism is entrenched as never be-
fore. It remains aggressive.


MU
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
hr Mif clan of Machiitary
or Equipment
MtTfP CHARTS • SpaciaK?
J4C«W¥O^UUIVANfI^
-»*•■ QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
4NNOUUC/N& -
NEW
THE
D
0
WHY NOT
BEFORE?
SUPERFINE
QUALITY
MAINTAINS
STABILITY
MORE
EFFICIENT
(LIQUID)
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE
BETTER
LIQUID
PHENOTHIAZINE
The introduction of “Phenovis" Liquid Pheno-
thiazine was delayed following new research
findings that the efficiency of Phenothiazine
could be markedly increased by using
extremely fine particles in the formula.
ICIANZ Ltd. has developed an entirely new
formula of very fine particles of Phenothiazine.
There are no mixing, caking or clogging
worries with the new “Phenovis” Liquid.
Once thoroughly stirred, complete suspension
is ensured tor your day's drenching.
Because of the higher quality and increased
efficiency of its technical components,
“Phenovis" Liquid gives you a drench that
is more economical and the latest in up-to-
date research.
ICI
N.S.W. Join I Distributors:
Wilcox Mofflin Ltd.,
15 Phillio St., Sydney.
Grazcos Co-op. Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
PHE.22N.4397
particularly in Asia. In Europe,
its purpose remains expansive,
as shown by Mr. Molotov’s
plans at the Berlin conference
for Germany, Austria and all
Europe. However, time and
fundamentals will work for us,
if only we let them.
Russian Weakness
“The dictators face an impos-
sible task when they set them-
selves to suppress, over a vast
area and for a long time, the
opportunities which flow from
freedom. We can be sure that
there is going on, even within
the Soviet empire, a silent test
of strength between the power-
ful rulers and the multitudes of
human beings. Each individual
seems by himself to be helpless
in this struggle. But their aspira-
tions in the aggregate make up a
mighty force.
“There are some signs that the
Soviet rulers are, in terms of
domestic policy, bending to
some of the human desires of
their people. There are promises
of more food, more household
goods, more economic freedom.
This does not prove that the
dictators have themselves been
converted. It is rather that they
may be dimly perceiving that
there are limits to their power
indefinitely to suppress the
human spirit.
“That is a truth which should
not be lost sight of as we deter-
mine our own policies. Our
national purpose is not merely
to survive in a world fraught
with appalling danger. We want
to end this era of danger.
“We shall not achieve that re-
sult merely by developing a vast
military establishment. That
serves indispensably to defend
us and to deter attack. But the
sword of Damocles remains sus-
pended. The way to end the
peril peacefully is to demon-
strate that freedom produces
not merely guns, but the spiritual,
intellectual and material richness
that all men want.
“Such are the guiding prin-
ciples we invoke. We have con-
fidence that if our nation per-
severes in applying them, free-
dom will again win the upper
hand in its age-long struggle
with despotism, and that the
danger of war will steadily re-
cede.”
Indonesia
The Indonesian Government’s
failure to attract what it hoped
for in foreign capital for the
country’s development has been
given several explanations, the
most feasible being that no
matter how reasonable the terms
offered, the country will have to
present a better risk in itself
before investors will be attracted.
Even in Java “Abadi” has
commented that, “besides giving
more confidence to foreign
investors, the Government should
also convince the political parties
that foreign capital is necessary,”
while “Mimbar Umum” has
observed that “So long as labor
unrest and political controversies
are not overcome, legislation on
foreign-capital investment will be
unable to give the country a way
out from its financial and
economic difficulties.”
Indonesian affairs at the
moment can hardly inspire con-
fidence in possible investors. As
London “Economist” remarks,
“pleas for foreign capital and
promises to treat it fairly have a
hollow ring when they come
from a weak Government largely
dominated by men notorious for
their anti-foreign and, in some
cases, anti-Western attitude”:
“The Government’s authority
is being increasingly undermined
by the continued unwillingness
of politicians to bury their differ-
ences and by the head-in-the-
clouds attitude of the main
political parties. The minds of
many of them seem to run on
questions like the break-up of
the Indonesian-Dutch union or
the return of Irian (West New
Guinea). Scarcely a word is said
about living-standards and pro-
ductivity, about housing, com-
munications, security, food-
supplies, transport, federalism—
or the innumerable other
London “Daily Mirror!"
LIFE OR DEATH OF A [BRITISH] SALESMAN
practical poblems which need to
be tackled.
“With the fall in the price of
rubber and other commodities,
Indonesia’s foreign-trade balance
has sharply deteriorated. In
public affairs, there is too often
creeping apathy, a sense of
frustration, a growing corrup-
tion, and limitless red-tape in
the simplest matters of adminis-
tration. And all the time the
Communists, through the main
trade-union organisation, are
consolidating their hold on a lazy
and turbulent urban proletariat,
at a rate which suggests that they
may soon attempt a major attack
on the Government.
“These are some of the reasons
why the recent invitation to
foreign capital is hardly likely
to succeed. In fact, the Govern-
ment is neither willing nor able
to provide the security which it
recognises as essential if new
investment is to be encouraged.
“Intelligent Indonesian leaders
deny that they are ever likely 10
choose a totalitarian system. In
assessing Communist chances,
therefore, it is fair to draw one
sharp distinction: while the
atmosphere in Djakarta and
some of the larger towns is one
of insidious and depressing
decay, the countryside presents
a much more heartening picture.
The fact that the Communists are
unpopular with the mass of the
people must depress the party,
if it is to apply Mao Tse-tung’s
precept that revolutions in Asia
must be based on the peasants,
not the townsmen.
“District residents and local-
government officials are doing
good work, despite difficulty and
hindrance. The smallholder and
farmer, both in Java and among
the vigorous people of the Outer
Islands, still show the patience
and steadiness on which the new
nation was first built. Although
in some places life and property
are still unsafe, many of the
rural areas are flourishing and
happy.
“The danger, however, is that
the wide influence of events in
the capital will infect the rest
of the State. The voice of the
rural districts is weak, and they
are unfairly represented in the
nominated Parliament. Until
the development of democracy
is carried a stage further, there
can be little chance either that
the country will attain stability or
that the invitation to foreign
capital can be taken seriously.”
Welfare State
Commenting on the wide-
spread hostility among British
Socialists and pink Tories to any
reduction of super-tax in Britain,
London “Financial Times” de-
scribes “this curious notion” as
“one of the by-products of
Britain’s peculiar brand of class-
warfare, which is based on little
else but envy and jealousy”:
“A large part of the British
public are determined believers
in equalitarianism, not because
they think they may greatly
benefit by it themselves, but be-
cause they cannot bear to see
other people enjoying anything
they do not themselves possess —
even though that extra wealth has
been acquired by years of intel-
ligent risk-taking and by con-
sistent hard work.
“The Germans, who are
rapidly becoming the most pros-
perous of all European peoples,
take a different view, and that is
why we are everywhere losing
markets to enterprising German
businessmen.
“The Germans ask, and ask
rightly, what is the sense in
expecting a man to create a new
business or a new industry if the
results of his labors are dissipated
by a huge sedentary bureau-
cracy? For these hordes of
officials may toil, perhaps,
according to their lights, but they
certainly do not spin.
“It would be advantageous to
Britain if we built a series of
Chelsea Hospitals in which large
numbers of our bureaucrats
could be pensioned-off, on con-
dition that they toiled no more.
For the salaries of our bureau-
crats are the least part of their
cost to the country. Most of
them are perpetually engaged in
creating new and grandiose
schemes for spending vast sums
of public money. No doubt these
worthy men feel that they must
do this in order to prove that they
are earning their keep.
“Yet it is in the interest of
those who believe in the Welfare
State to encourage men to create
wealth by initiative and enter-
prise. At present the Welfare
State in Britain is largely a
sham, for the reason that its
finances are completely
fallacious. They are not based
on actuarial calculation; their
sole basis is political calculation,
“How in the future can we
hope to continue providing out
of public funds the numerous
benefits so lightly promised by
politicians to the electorate in
return for their votes? Great will
be the disillusion of the public
when Britain enters upon hard
times, and the Welfare State
proves to be the most illusory
of safeguards against them.”
Geneva
America’s refusal to recognise
Red China so long as it remains
an “aggressor” has been criticised
by some commentators as plac-
ing U.S. Secretary of State John
Foster Dulles in an impossible
position at the Geneva Confer-
ence, because, the critics claim,
his hand is played in advance,
leaving him no room to negotiate.
The critics, of course, take it
that the main bargaining at
Geneva will be for American
recognition of Communist China
and that country’s admission to
U.N.0., on the one hand, and,
on the other, for some sort of
settlement in Indo-China which,
in relieving France, will incline
it more towards joining the Euro-
pean Defence Community.
New York “Herald Tribune”
notes, however, that, “with recog-
nition of Red China and admis-
sion to the U.N. ruled out, there
remain other areas, notably trade,
where bargaining is possible if
any serious intent should be
shown by the Communists.
“Trade, moreover, has the
advantage of being contingent on
the Communists’ future course,
and thus would not fall within
Mr. Dulles’s interdiction against
trading American performances
for mere promises by the other
side.”
American Deputy Under-
secretary of State Murphy : “We
[U.S.A.] have urged and are
urging E.D.C. upon our
European friends, but they are
independent nations and we
cannot compel them to act. Our
concept of unity does not include
compulsion. They are not
satellites. We of the free alliance
are equals. Rightly or wrongly
we make our own decisions.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Payment for Aldermen
The suggested payment for aldermen in
N. S. Wales should be resisted by every
ratepayer.
State and Federal Parliamentary
salaries, and the increases in them, do not
affect the individual taxpayer very much
because they take only a very small pro-
portion of the total Government taxation.
Payment of aldermen, however, would
add a substantial burden to that already
borne by ratepayers.
Councils, unlike Governments, have
comparatively limited sources of revenue
and are already finding it difficult to
finance all their activities without socking
the ratepayers to breaking-point. Pay-
ment of several thousands a year to aider-
men would mean either increasing rates
to that breaking-point or cutting-down
on council services.
Payment isn’t necessary to get public-
spirited men into councils. Aldermen are
not constantly on the job, and in urban
municipalities and many country ones the
area is small enough for aldermen to
reach the council chambers without in-
curring any appreciable expense.
In any case, the amount that could be
voted for salaries without forcing rates
to an intolerable level would not be
suflicient to attract anyone worthy of
council membership who would not give
his services gratis.— Kantmbla (N.S.W.).
Australia-Japan Trade
It’s all very fine to make an election-
issue of Australia’s relations with Japan,
but what is this sort of thing doing to our
trade? In 1952-53 we sold Japan £B4
million-worth of goods, including £6O
million for wool, and bought a total of
£5 million-worth.
Can’t we consider the whole matter in
terms of trade? We don’t have to send
love and kisses with every woolbale, but
unless the Jap somehow gets the where-
withal to buy our wool he will be forced
—as is now happening—into South
American markets.
Already in this financial year our sales
to Japan are down some 30 million
pounds of wool, while total Japanese pur-
chases are well up. Argentina—with a
trade-agreement providing for, among
other things, the purchase of 26 million
dollars-worth of wool—and Brazil are
taking up the slack and reaping the
benefit.
In the light of what Japan is doing with
South American wool, it is nonsense to
think that it is dependent on Australia
for all its woollen-industry needs. More-
over, never forget Japan’s expanding syn-
thetic-textile industry, which is getting all
possible Government aid.
It’s downright foolishness to spit pub-
licly on one of our best customers. Hie
butcher may hate the sight of Mrs. Jones,
but he sells her the joint and takes her
money. For heaven’s sake let us take
politics out of overseas trade! There are
many goods mhde in Japan which the
Australian consumer would like, and we
have an efficient Customs Department and
Tariff Board which can check and circum-
vent any tricks.
A trade-balance of 16-to-l can’t go on
for ever—the Japs will see to that, if we
don’t,— Tokyo Aussie (Japan).
Mental Migrants
Playing the political game pretty low-
down, a few people tried to suggest that
two recent tragedies in Victoria which
followed the mental collapse of two
migrants were attributable to weaknesses
in the Government’s migration-system.
Apart from the fact that one of the
migrants in question entered the country
while Labor was in office, it is obvious
that the real culprit was the Nazi regime
under which both men had suffered.
Neither man had any evidence of
mental disorder on selection as a migrant,
and Immigration Minister Harold Holt
put the matter in right and non-political
perspective when he said that under both
the present and previous Administrations
the standard of our selection criteria “has
been the highest of any migrant-receiving
country in the world.”
Holt suggested that the severe hardship
and living-conditions which so many of
these unfortunate people experienced in
war-time Europe had resulted in a few
of them breaking-down under the added
strain of adjustment in rebuilding their
lives in a new environment.
“This was a risk,” he said, “Australia
had to take if we were to play our part
in meeting the international problem of
the displaced-persons of Europe. No true
Australian would have sought to escape
that responsibility.”— Molong (A.C.T.).
The H-bomb
The general reaction to the hydrogen-
bomb, according to most Press reports, is
anger that such a weapon should have
been evolved. My reaction is that it’s the
answer to the world’s prayers for peace.
Man was created with a free will.
Frequently, he wills to err. The answer
to man’s prayer for peace must there-
fore conform to his present nature. And
one of our strongest instincts is self-preser-
vation. The hydrogen-bomb promises no
preservation.
It will be argued that this has never
prevented wars before, but in the past
there has always been the belief in man
that, while others may perish, he will sur-
vive. Those who have been responsible
for wars have, in particular, been com-
forted by this thought.
But the hydrogen-bomb, capable of
completely destroying a whole city, has
destroyed man’s faith in his personal
survival. There is not a leader born who
would consciously invite self-destruction.
If there is such a man it is most unlikely
that his associates will share his suicidal
tendencies.
I believe, therefore, that man’s desire
to conquer by force has now been frus-
trated by fear and the desire to live. Cer-
tainly there will be civil wars and minor
wars of manageable proportions, but I
believe we have suffered our last World
War.—W. N. P. (N.S.W.).
Teachers
It is a paradox of the State primary-
education system in Queensland that those
young men and women who enter teach-
ing with the best motives are likely to
leave it the quickest (B. 3 / 3 / ’54).
The Department of Public Instruction,
in spite of changes in its classification
scale, its school curriculums and in its
teacher-training programmes, has not yet
solved the problem of making the pro-
fession attractive enough to guarantee
that all the teachers-at-heart will remain
so, or to ensure that the service will
always attract the right kind of trainee.
The Queensland Direcor-General of
Education stated in his annual report
that during each of the past few years 400
to 500 teachers had resigned. Not all of
these would have been female teachers
leaving to marry, nor teachers who had
reached the normal retiring age.
Between 1945 and 1952 school enrol-
ments increased from 130,000 to almost
176,000, a growth in numbers that could
have been offset only by the addition of
1000 extra teachers; but in 1952 there
were only 170 students at the Teachers’
Training College, and more than 400 left
the service in that year alone.
The Queensland Government needs to
take earnest steps to prevent the dis-
illusionments in the ranks, fostered by the
atmosphere of ill-equipped and worn-out
classrooms, by the heart-breaking tasks
of teaching classes of unwieldy numbers,
by the depressing prevalence of the
departmental Sword of Damocles (the
illogical “transfer”) and by the culpable
system which can consign fledgling
teachers to one-teacher schools in State
outposts.
What are probably the two most deep-
seated elements of despair among many
teachers will very likely not be overcome
or allayed until all these deterrents, and
others, are lessened in effect. The two
elements are pay and prestige.—Horn-
castle (Q.),
“Settlers and Convicts”
Mr. Roderick is puzzled (B. 31/3/’54)
to find a connection between “R......
the partner of Harris in Settlers and Con-
victs, and “Captain Romer,” Lang’s part-
ner in his Tales from Botany Bay; and
goes on to say “that if these two charac-
ters can be reconciled as one and the
same,” there may be something in my
theory that Alexander Harris was but the
pen-name of John Lang.
In the early years of last century,
stretching along the bush-track that was
then the road to Parramatta, were the
widespread estates of Captain Thomas
Rowley at Kingston Farm and Burwood,
adjoining those of James Underwood at
Sunning Hill (Summer Hill) and Joseph
Underwood —John Lang’s stepfather—at
Ashfield Park. These neighbors, if we
may use Lang’s words, were among “the
lords of Botany Bay,” and the families
were closely associated.
Captain (then Lieutenant) Rowley
arrived with the N.S.W. Corps in 1792
and shortly afterwards married Elizabeth
Selwyn. Thomas, their first son, was born
in 1794, and as the years went by Rowley
"resigned his commission and settled-down
on his Kingston and Burwood lands to
raise a family of currency lads and lasses.
Here, also, in 1793, he laid a foundation-
stone for Australia when he crossed a
Spanish ram of Merino extraction,
brought from California by the Daedalus,
with ewes from the Cape of Good Hope.
After the death of Captain Rowley in
1806, the Burwood estate, through the
incompetence of an appointed trustee,
passed from the family and was only
recovered after lengthy litigation in the
early 1830’s. In the meantime young
Thomas married Catherine Clarkson at
Castlereagh in 1818, and afterwards
settled on his 700-acre farm at Holds-
worthy, near Liverpool, where by 1840 he
had a family of eleven children, five boys
and six girls.
In those days there was always new
land for the enterprising to be found
beyond the bounds of settlement, and in
1819, no doubt in an endeavor to retrieve
the family fortunes, John Rowley, second
son of the captain, went with Throsby
on the first exploring-party to the coun-
try beyond Moss Vale and back behind
the mountains through the Abercrombie
Valley to Bathurst. In the following year
he acted as guide for Commissioner Bigge
and Oxley on their journey in the reverse
direction. For these services he received
a grant in the pleasant uplands at Sutton
Forest beyond Bong Bong, where his 550
acres looked across the intervening valley
of Black Bob’s Creek at Joseph Under-
wood’s 500-acre grant beyond.
In 1820 young John Rowley married a
girl named Sarah Pear and for some years
settled-down at Liverpool to the duties
of an innkeeper and the father of a grow-
ing family of boys and girls. At last the
long processes of the courts were com-
pleted and Rowley entered into his inheri-
tance of the lands at Burwood, where in
the meantime the substantial dwelling of
Burwood House had been erected. Once
again immediate neighbors to the Under-
woods, he occupied himself with an
extensive orchard and exploited the
wealth of the virgin gum-forests which
still covered most of his estate. Through-
out the middle-’thirties Rowley repeatedly
advertised for sawyers to cut his tim-
ber :
WANTED AT BURWOOD. One or two
pairs of sawyers, for six or twelve months
certain; when 7 shillings per hundred will
be paid for cutting. All over 6x3 super-
ficial measurement will be allowed. Apply
on estate to . . . John Rowley.
His eldest son, also John, then in his mid-
teens, no doubt looked for companionship
to young John Lang, four years his senior,
of the adjoining estate of Ashfield Park.
We can well imagine the two lads
roaming, as boys will, through the tall
timber surrounding their homes, yarning
with the sawyers, joining in their work,
and, in short, with the inquisitive eyes of
youth, becoming as familiar with the
various points of timber-getting as the
men themselves.
From these early surroundings, the
day-to-day experiences in the timber
trade, “Harris” could have drawn the
material which he used so well in Settlers
and Convicts. Young Rowley would be
“Young R ,” whom he recalls with
affection, “his tall, slender make, fair,
colorless complexion, and light hair
he was an Australian.” This is the young
man who at the end of the day’s work
hurried off to court “Helen” at Parra-
matta while his workmate was left to
trudge home “under the jading swing-
swong” of their heavy seven-foot saw.
(i Settlers and Convicts, pp. 93-5.)
When the opportunity offered it was
but a few days’ journey out through
Appin and down the precipitous wagon-
track to the hospitable farm of Cornelius
O’Brien, and then on past the cream
beaches of the “Ilia Warra” to the three
lush Underwood grants lying between
the mountains and the sea at Corrimal.
More ambitious would be the trips north,
up to the cedar country of the Hunter
Valley where, facing the river in county
Durham, Joseph Underwood had a fine
property of 1500 acres.
Later, most probably in the December
of 1841 shortly after Lang returned from
England, I suggest that the two friends
made their long carefree ride to the
south past Goulburn o Settlers and Con-
victs, pp. 124-138). Along their route
were the friends of both families. Criss-
crossing down through County Murray
they would have passed under the shadow
of “Jellamatong Mountain”—which still
dominates the Braidwood district —and so
would have come to the two Underwood
grants on Jerrabattgulla Creek, a branch
of the upper Shoalhaven.
It was, I submit, from the synthesis of
these recollections that John Lang drew
material for both Settlers and Convicts
and Tales from Botany Bay.
But there are other links between John
Lang and Settlers and Convicts in the
romantic episode of the dying prostitute:
the unfortunate girl is failing fast, a doc-
tor is necessary:
Off I went down the Rocks, across
George-street, past the Tanks, to Dr.
Bland’s —the first medical practitioner in
the colony. I met him at his door.
These are hardly the words of a com-
parative stranger in town, but those of
an old friend following a familiar path —
for John Lang’s town-address for business
purposes was “care of Dr. Bland.” Lang
pays a more intimate tribute to this friend
and medico when his second child, a son,
born at Ashfield Park on November 6,
1841, was christened William Bland Lang.
Lang was a “brilliant companion, and
a more than popular society man,” and as
the newspapers for the early months of
1842 contain many references to his social
and public activities, it is more than
probable that he carried files of them to
India as some evidence of his standing


in the colony. This being the case, it is
more than a coincidence that the “Aus-
tralian” of April 11—less than a week
before he departed—carries a two-column
news-item on the Outrages Commute
■dUti B wdh, though 1 FuZ a,"
given in Settlers and Convicts (pp. 214-5).
From the same files we learn that a
new work of fiction is being published
anonymously by the well-known Sydney
bookseller James Tegg, to appear in
fortnightly parts, starting February. En-
titled Legends of Australia, it is almost
certainly the work of Lang. Only four
“She Wont be gain for a while yet, mate, th' driver's gain'
'ome for lunch.”
parts appeared before it ceased abruptly
with the second March issue, a little over
two weeks before Lang departed for Cal-
cutta. Of great rarity. Part lof the Mit-
chell Library copy is inscribed “E. Under-
wood” —John Lang’s mother.
The first legend, entitled “Frederick
Charles Howard,” takes up almost the
entire four parts. It is two tales in one,
both of which take us to familiar scenes
beyond Bong Bong —that of Howard, the
Army officer who is transported for life
and sent as a stockman to a station in
the wild Shoalhaven country, and of his
faithful wife Isabella, who follows him to
New South Wales ; the other half con-
cerning a young convict, John Smith, in
whom Lang draws a picture of himself,
“about twenty-three or -four years of
age... ,a scholar at Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, a private in the 60th Rifles, a law
student, a rider in Franconi’s establish-
ment in Paris a provincial actor ”
He had a strong leaning to the theatre,
and would give “Sadler’s Wells represen-
tations,” imitate the famous Tambourini
in “Don Giovanni” or declaim lines
from Pope, Shakspeare and others as
the mood took him.
It is the portrait of a somewhat self-
opinionated young man fresh from Cam-
bridge and the grand tour abroad. After
being assigned as a coachman for some
time to a magistrate with a large family
near Parramatta, he obtains a job as
driver of the mail-cart to Bong Bong,
when he is instrumental in carrying the
persistently faithful Isabella to her stock-
man husband in the wild country beyond
—a journey strongly reminiscent, though
in reverse, of that given by Harris in the
final chapter of Settlers and Convicts.
A striking fact is evident if we examine
Professor Morris Miller’s Australian
Literature, in which the entries of Harris
and Lang appear consecutively. Harris’s
first book. Settlers and Convicts, was
published in 1847, and the last edition of
his Autobiography in 1852, after which
he vanished from the literary scene. In
the following year Lang drops the nom
de plumes and anonymity which had pre-
viously cloaked him and for the first time
uses his own name on The Weatherbys
(London, 1853). This work is followed in
quick succession by seven other novels,
until his last book, Tales from Botany
Bay, is published in 1859.
It is remarkable that of the nine known
works of fiction published in Australia
before 1842, eight were issued anony-
mously or under a pen-name. The mys-
tery surrounding the authorship of
some of them has been elucidated, and
with the growing interest in this period
it is possible that the final veil will be
drawn aside and we shall know who in
fact laid the foundation-stones of our
native literature, — John Earnshaw
(N.S.W.).
Young Men for the Land
j n a g enera | wa y “D.S. M.’s” scheme
£ OJ . rura [ holiday-camps for town lads
17 / 3 /’5 4 ) SOU nds good. If I know
however, these places close to “the
snrell
be justhohday-campsandnomoreThe
youngsters would revel in the freedom
and wholesome country air for a week
or two, and then start fretting for home
and , h f
they d be a bit young to be thinking
ously about life on the land,
Why not get straight to business by
establishing “apprentice” farms where
boys just left school and interested in the
land as a career could leam modern agri-
culture and, at the same time, produce
enough to meet the cost of running the
places? It would surely be an investment
for both the nation and the budding
farmer. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Homes for the People
The slogan of the N. S. Wales Housing
Commission is “Homes for the people!
and Greenway, a huge block of flats at
North Sydney, is one of its efforts in
that direction. Secrecy shrouds the real
cost, but it was more than £1,000,000.
I was lately talking to a resident of
Greenway who told me that car-parking
was a great problem there, the commis-
sion, shortsightedly, having made no
provision for tenants’ cars.
“Car-parking?” X said. “I thought
everyone in Greenway would have had
to pass some sort of hardship- or .means-
test before being allocated a fiat.”
I was assured that that was not so, and
that the commission wasn’t interested in
an applicant’s assets.
That might be all right, but what
annoys me is that there are people in
Greenway with cars and other assets
which would be more than enough for a
deposit on a house. Other people, living
in temporary dwellings and borrowing
money to build, are therefore paying
taxes to house some well able to pay
deposits on homes for themselves.— Satu
Orang (N.S.W.).
Incentives
Many and varied are the ways of
prodding men with incentives (B.
24/3/ ’54). . ,
It is told of Andrew Carnegie, the steel-
master, that one day he walked into the
works at the end of a shift and said to a
foreman, “How many ‘heats’ did you get
today, Joe?” “Six,” said Joe.
Casually, almost idly, Carnegie chalked
a large “6” on the wall, and went off
without further speech.
The relieving foreman, coming in,
asked the meaning of the figure on the
wall. “I don’t know,” he was told. “The
boss put it there. Asked me how many
‘heats’ I got.” “Oh, he did, did he?” At
the close of that foreman’s shift the “6”
on the wall had a stroke through it and
beside it an “8.”
From then the game was on ; produc-
tion rose, and in getting the rise
Carnegie had virtually done nothing.
The American management of a
Westralian goldmine possibly had that
sort of thing in mind several years ago
when they started the idea of chalking-
up in the plant every day the previous
day’s mill-tonnage for all to see. The
scheme was an instant, lasting and popu-
lar success: the plant-hands used to run
a daily sweep on the last two digits. —
Edx (Vic.).
Public-speaking
Broadcast speeches by visiting Ameri-
can sportsmen have highlighted the poor
quality of the speech of most Australians.
The America we are shown in films and
comics must be a myth, or else all Ameri-
can visitors are given special speech-
training before they leave home.
By contrast the Australian speaks too
often in a pinched nasal tone, halting and
sometimes stammering. His vocabulary
is so limited that he is often at a loss
for words and fills in with repetitions or
a collection of “urns” and “ers.”
Reasons? Lack of vocabulary is obvi-
ously the result of poor reading, on top
of which the chances for train-
ing in public-speaking in Aus-
tralia are limited. Very few
suburbs or country towns have
debating-societies or discussion-
groups.
The art of oratory has been
lost in Australia’s public life,
and the politician who can reel
off Churchillian phrases is re-
garded with suspicion by the
average voter. The broadcast-
ing of Parliament has not
helped to improve speaking as
was hoped, and the member
who slaughters the Queen’s
English is regarded with some
affection for being one of the
people.
The schools are not playing
their part. Speech-training in
boys’ schools is not favored by
teachers or pupils, while in
many girls’ schools it develops
only that exaggerated ultra-
“refained” tone. The only
place to start with a remedy
to all this is in the schools,
yet that presents tremendous diffi-
culties. How can you fit con-
sistent (and it must be consistent)
speech-training into a curriculum already
overcrowded? Further, teachers do not
demand a high enough standard of speech
from the youngsters, possibly, of course,
because they find that the influence of
the home and playground is insurmount-
able.
As a first modest attack on the pro-
blem, far more encouragement could be
given to the development of debating-
clubs and discussion-groups within the
schools. That might at least give the
children some interest in public-speak-
ing.— Rann (N.S.W.).
The 40-hour Week
According to “Taurus” (B. 31/3/’54),
the 40-hour week doesn’t stop us from
“turning on the electric-light or the stove
or the radiator any time we wish.” That
may be true of Tasmania, with its
hydroelectric systems, but what about
N. S. Wales and its experience with elec-
tric-power, or the lack of it, since the
coming of the wonder-working-week?
“Travel by tram, bus, train, plane or
taxi seven days a week,” saiys “T.” Yes,
travel with, for example, hourly or half-
hourly bus- or tram-services, overcrowd-
ing and futile waits at stopping-places
while overfull buses fly past—all be-
cause the wonder-week doesn’t allow us
enough vehicles or workers to man
tkejjj
“Get medical attention at any hour
of the day or night.” True, but not from
a medical profession tied down to 40-
hours a week.
“Collect milk from the doorstep every
morning.” Again, thanks to the efforts
of dairyfarmers who work rather more
than 40 hours.
“Read a newspaper every day.” Yes,
but for how much more than it used to
cost?
“Have our beds made, our meals
cooked, mending done, houses cleaned on
Sunday as well as Monday, Tuesday, etc.
All done, I suppose, by Mrs. “Taurus” in
a five-day, 40-hour week!
“T.’s” figures about the development of
his old firm and its business look quite
impressive until you think of the short-
ages still with us and ask how much more
might have been done had we still a real
working week. — Upagum (N.S.W.).
Why?
Why is it that the most extravagant
little gadget designed to make things
easier for the farmer or the man in the
factory is free of sales tax, deductible for
income-tax purposes and subject to
special credit conditions, when, on the
other hand, refrigerators, washing-
machines, etc., which serve to save Mum
some back-breaking toil, are “luxuries”
and taxed accordingly?—G.T. (Vic.).
Hire-purchase
The great increase in hire-purchase
business in this country is bringing us
closer to the American habit of buying
much of our gadgetry on terms.
While the weaknesses of the system
have probably been over-emphasised by
its opponents, it does seem that it’s too
easy to buy luxuries and too hard to buy
essentials under the scheme. Cars, wash-
ing-machines and refrigerators are nice
things to have, but they are not as essen-
tial as homes. It’s much easier to get
finance for any of the former.
One reason is that hire-purchase firms
can charge a higher interest-rate on money
advanced on such goods than the current
mortgage interest-rate.
It would probably be better for the
country’s economy if laws were so framed
that money would be readily available for
essentials and rather tighter for luxuries.
—Tonsi (Tas.).
Road-trains
My argument in favor of large-capacity
road-trains is that, if they can bp made
to operate successfully, it would be far
cheaper to lay and maintain one track to
take all ground-traffic than it would be
to build railways, as well as roads.
“Karrimba” contends that the cost of
providing roads strong enough to take
20-by-10 double - decker cattle - trucks
“would approach that of a railway-track”
(B. 31/3/’54). Even if he is right, the
one track to carry all traffic would be
cheaper. During the war highways were
stretched across Centralia and the N.T. in
less than a year. There is no reason why
these cannot be extended and strength-
ened, if necessary.
Road cattle-trains would be no harder
on roads than the 20- to 30-ton semi-
trailers which I saw taking cement from
Kandos (N.S.W.) during 1942-52. From
the way in which earth- and gravel-roads
stood up to a dozen ot these monsters a
day I think K. has exaggerated the
difficulty of providing tracks strong
enough for road-trains . 1A
A line of six double-decker
trucks would hold about 140 to 150 bul-
locks, and if one driver could control
them from his prime-mover it would be
a big advance on any type of transport so
far tried-out in Centralia or the N.T.
K. Me. (N.S.W.).


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in 1 ri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM-
1M
STi ;
BOW®
*DbL % '&Ctj£'Od*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied-
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GAO. 80. »||.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FR6M LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Do you remember when everyone considered thrift was a virtue? That was
before high taxation made so many cynical.
In spite of circumstances some of us still believe that practice of the old
saying ‘ Waste not, want not” has resulted in the increase of our material
possessions. By using
BARNARDS MIXED MESH WIRE NETTING
we * want ' ky having small mesh in the lower section, and we “waste
not by having a larger mesh in the upper section of our rabbit-proof fence.
Users not only save their own money but benefit the Nation’s Economy.
If your regular supplier has not yet commenced to stock BARNARDS
MIXED MESH NETTING
ask the Sole Australian Agents;
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney. Telephone M 6459
to name your nearest Stockist.
BUY BRITISH AND PROFIT BY IT
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ns
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can Instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage ie
absorbed into the solL
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established Z 5 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
•DISTRIBUTORS! "
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co„ Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Win. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Overturning of Tractors
“McAnik”: Anyone who has
handled the big fellows knows
that wheeled tractors have a
tendency to rear: what usually
happens is that the pull of an
implement transfers weight from
front- to back-wheels. If the
pull is sufficient, front-wheels
leave the ground. Danger of
toppling over backwards isn’t
great, because in standard
tractors the hitch-point—the
drawbar —is behind and below
the rear-axle. The danger is that
sometimes, for convenience, a
load is hitched high ; to the rear-
axle housing, for instance.
Turning over sideways is more
dangerous because you get less
warning. When a tractor moves
in a straight line it tends to keep
moving in that direction. Its
weight, and initial inertia, and
the force needed to overcome it,
combine to make it singularly
single-minded. When the tractor
begins to turn, centrifugal force
comes into action, outwards from
the turning circle. Axis over
which tipping would occur, in a
row-crop tractor, can be repre-
sented by a line joining the point
of contact of a rear-wheel with
the ground and the point of
contact of a front-wheel with
the ground, both wheels on the
same side. In a four-wheeled
tractor, three-point suspension
results in the tipping-axis being
the same as that of a three-
wheeled tractor. If the stop at
the location of the front-axle
comes into contact with the trun-
nion before overturning, tipping
will be more difficult, as it will
have to sway over an axis joining
the rear-wheel with the front-
wheel ; that is to say, the tipping-
axis would be further from the
centre of gravity. But it’s best
not to take chances ; so, as a rule,
regard four-wheeled tractors as
capable of tipping over the line
joining the centre pivot of the
front-axle and a rear-wheel.
The weight of a tractor thrusts,
as it were, down, through its
centre of gravity; if the sum of
the centrifugal force and the
weight passes outside of the
tipping-axis, the tractor must go
over. Width between the back-
wheels is the best safeguard
against overturning sideways;
width between the front-wheels
is not important. It’s dangerous
to turn uphill suddenly, any time,
most of all when you have
gathered speed in free tractor.
Centrifugal force varies directly
Overturning of Tractors
with the square of the speed, and
inversely as the radius of the
turn.
Not so much is known (except
by engineers and those near-
engineers who know the theory
of every piece of machinery they
own—a fairly large group,
incidentally) about torque-
reaction ; it’s an engineering
term, torque meaning the
measure of the effect produced
by a twisting force. In tractors,
it is a factor in overturning—a
twisting force acting inside the
tractor, from the independent
twisting action of the engine
(engine-torque), opposed by the
inertia of the drive mechanism.
Engine-torque is a measure of
the capacity of the pistons to
twist the crankshaft.
When starting a tractor, or
when accelerating, there is a
tendency for the driving-pinion
to climb the ring-gear. This is
due to the inertia of the ring-
gear and other drive-mechanism
to circular motion, and to the
inertia of the tractor as a mass
to forward motion, plus rolling
resistance and friction. This
reaction tends to cause the rear
axle-housing to twist in the
opposite direction to the drive-
wheels, and if this contradiction
is sufficient, may result in rearing.
Apart from the sudden applica-
tion of engine-torque (with a
wide throttle opening, and in a
low gear), and the reaction result-
ing from the inertia of the mov-
ing parts, there is another set of
conditions which can be even
more dangerous (for, after all,
the front-end of the tractor has
its own inertia). That is, when
the driving-pinion turns, either
the ring-gear must
turn, with one or
both rear-wheels, or
the driving-pinion, if
it keeps turning, will
have to ride up the
ring-gear. One wheel
usually starts slipping
—sometimes two, but
one is sufficient. A
good deal of energy
is required to over-
turn a tractor in this
way. If |he clutch is
engaged at low
engine-torque, when
both wheels cannot
turn, the engine will
probably stall.
Danger lies with a
wide-open throttle
and in low gear.
A patch of stiff
mud in the paddock
can cause rear-wheels
to stick, digging-in and finally
holding fast; or the rear-wheels
can get stuck crossing a ditch. It’s
dangerous to jam a piece of
wood, old tin or the like under
the rear-wheels to prevent slip-
ping. When caught like this,
engage the clutch cautiously:
better to back out, if you can, or
get another tractor to rescue you.
On slopes, of course, danger is
greater.
Safeguard, in both cases, is the
same: the load at the drawbar.
If you think about it, it seems
plain that the turning effect of the
pull at the drawbar is in the same
direction as the holding-down
force, the weight at the front.
With crawler tractors the prin-
ciples remain the same, although
a low centre of gravity, distribu-
tion of weight (heavy in front),
and the low-set drawbar tend to
make them safer on hillsides.
But if the throttle is opened
suddenly going uphill, with no
load at the drawbar, they can
turn-turtle; particularly with a
very powerful engine.
The tendency of a crawler
tractor to overturn sideways
depends on the height of the
centre of gravity, and the width
between tracks. If the tracks
themselves are wide they carry
a relatively light weight per unit
area, which may cause the tractor
to slip down a slope; on the
other hand, a narrow track would
tend to dig-in. Sometimes a
sliding crawler will catch an
obstruction on the edge of the
track and momentum will be
sufficient to turn it over.
Another danger is moving
downhill, when the driver tries
to turn it on the slope.
Ordinarily, with clutch-and-
brake steering, a turn to the left
is made by disengaging the clutch
controlling the drive of the left-
hand track; right-hand track
(driven by the engine) keeps turn-
ing and swings the tractor to the
left.
But going downhill, with the
engine idling, disengaging a
clutch to make a turn has the
opposite effect; it turns right,
because the left-hand track is
now free, the right-hand track
is braked by the engine. A
serious matter if you intended to
dodge a gully. It’s easy to forget.
Wool Prices
“Graz.”: Although the greasy
wool sold in March, 1954, aver-
aged only 77. KM., compared with
88.30 d. for the same month of
last year, the drop of over lid.
should not cause alarm. For
the nine months ending March
31 greasy wool averaged 82.92 d.
this season and 82.17 d. in
1952-53. While some fluctuation
occurs from month to month, the
overall stability of the market
indicates that demand for the
staple is still strong.
Competition late in March was
keener than early in the month.
Stocks in the United Kingdom,
on the Continent and in Japan
are reported to be insufficient to
keep their mills employed until
the next selling-season starts.
Up to March 31, 3,135,660
bales had been disposed of and
realised £321,522,991, being
increases of 179,825 bales and
£14,494,043 compared with the
corresponding period for last
year.
In Brief
National Farmers’ Union is
opposing application to the
Tariff Board by 1.C.1. (A.N.Z.)
and Timbrol for increased duties
on chlorine products: duties
mentioned are between 50 per
cent, and 90 per cent, on im-
ports from Britain, with an addi-
tional loading of 12£ per cent,
on imports from Europe and
America; products include
D. benzene hexachloride
(8.H.C.), 2,4-D, 2,4,5-T,
M.C.P.A., carbon tetrachloride,
chloropicrin, copper oxychloride,
hexachlorbenzene and penta-
chlorpHenol.
N.F.U. calculates that the in-
crease, if granted, would raise
the annual cost of drenching
sheep with carbon tetrachloride
by at least £70,000; cost of
spraying 100,000 acres with
2,4-D for skeleton-weed would
be up £15,000 ; and the increased
cost of clearing one-quarter of
the brigalow country of Queens-
land with 2,4,5-T would be
£2,300,000.
In all such cases, of course,
there are two sides to an argu-
ment. That’s why there is a
Tariff Board. The points here
given are from the case for the
consumers—itself, of necessity,
something of an address by
counsel—because they illustrate
very well the impact on primary
producers of little-publicised de-
partmental decisions.
Asked to comment, 1.C.1. man
E. Sorensen made these points:
Chlorine chemicals are a boon
worth millions to primary pro-
ducers ; during the war and
period of post-war shortages, also
the period of import-restrictions,
primary producers would have
been denied these chemicals if
there hadn’t been a local
industry capable of producing
them; since 1950, and influenced
by higher prices for primary
products, Australian prices have
risen much faster than in over-
seas countries; import-restric-
tions have acted to protect local
secondary industries, and with
their withdrawal tariff-protection
is the natural answer; primary
producers have no complaints
regarding quality of local
chlorine products ; they fear that
increasing tariffs will increase
costs, but 1.C.1. has told Tariff
Board that tariffs applied for are
to support existing prices, and
there is no intention of increasing
them.
■* * «
“Zea”: Many people like
canned sweet-corn. But it is sur-
prising that anyone who has
tasted this delicacy would pay 6d.
an ear for the coarse stuff sold
in the husk in the Big Smoke.
It’s mostly white maize, all right
as pig-feed (though not as good
as yellow), but nothing to make
a gourmet excited; especially
after it has hung and dried for a
few days in a greengrocer’s shop.
Like topping, it’s one of those
things that make visiting Sydney
at Easter interesting.
♦ * •
“Lacto”; New test for deter-
mining fat-content of milk and
cream has been evolved in
America. A detergent and a
water-softening phosphate-salt
take the place of sulphuric acid
in the old Babcock-test.
Sulphuric acid has always been
risky to handle, and now, because
of the increased cost of sulphur,
is expensive. Equipment, bottle,
centrifuge, etc. —same as in
Babcock-test. Fat is raised to
scale in the neck of the bottle by
the addition of methyl alcohol.
* * *
“Linum”: One of the paint
firms brings out a booklet,
“Know Your Linseed,” which
is a bit off the beam —good in-
tentions and other information
acknowledged—on where and
how. For instance, it states
linseed can be grown wherever
wheat can be grown. Well, it
can’t; needs a long, cool ripen-
ing, or good spring rainfall, or
irrigation under high tempera-
tures. Similarly, information
that ground should be worked
as for wheat or oats is incorrect.
Land isn’t worked as well for
oats as for wheat: linseed, be-
cause of its relative inability to
cope with weeds, needs better
soil-preparation than does
wheat.
• • *
“Wharfie”: All previously-
recommended rat-poisons, in-
cluding barium and thallium, are
giving way in the U.S.A. to a
new chemical. Warfarin (name
is derived from Institute of Wis-
consin, where it was evolved
after considerable research).
Poison causes fatal bleeding;
doesn’t make rats sick or bait-
shy, and isn’t lethal to other
animals (unless taken regularly
over a long period). The sub-
stance is already on sale in Aus-
tralia under other names; which
seems a bit odd.
* * *
“V.G.”: The Department of
Agriculture is running a series
GET IN EARLY
So popular has “The Bulle-
tin's” Wool Type Card become
to classers, sheep - owners,
wool students, and others
associated with wool, that the
demand keeps on threatening
the supply. Send for yours
now—your name and address
and postal-note for 7s. 6d.


SIMPLEX
I, WATT, 32 VOLT
HOME LIGHTING SET
Ample capacity to light the home
and use electric iron, toaster,
washing machine, radio, etc.
Sturdy, reliable job complete
with switchboard. Press button
self starting. Driven by 3 H.P.
J. air-cooled engine.
sd
£165
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL 161 K" 1 " Syd ” w
"When they mar\ you and tail you, my
I’ll be saved many worries and fears
If the \nife they don’t use
But Elastrator they choose.
You'll bless that decision for years."
The "Elastrator" Ring is rapidly superseding the knife
for marking and tailing because stockowners have
proved that it ensures considerably reduced losses and
much less risk of fly-strike. It saves time, too. for it is
easily and quickly applied,
Elastrator Instrument ~ ~ £6/6/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) 30/-. plus freight
Elastrator Loader £5/5/-. plus freight
£IAS» A#
/
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
, . . For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product 'of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
LTSAGHT
SHEEP SEIF
FEEDER...
VM
m
■■■■■ ■ ■ .
£s£o
£R
« Mh
JWT
T-;
7
r Krocn*m
'VJ
3
■•o
E
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in
filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy
Gauge Sheets.
Opening adjustable f&r various
grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of
feed in Troughs.
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for
Towing.
# Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE; (Assembled or Prefabricated)
£42 (At Works)
Write for further information and agents names to
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PYY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or lOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., in all capital cities
, , c
of short courses tor Victorian
farmers, their sons, wives a
daughters, at Dookie College,
Minimum age for students is
years The fee of £2 ss. a \yeek
pays for tuition, board and lodg-
mg and laundry. More in or-
Jhf ‘superintendentT Agricuh
AerkMtoe a^Treasmv ar Gardens
Treasury Cardens,
Melbourne, C. 2.
* * *
■ “ M r : u Wheat - cr °P „ cha ”'
pionship honors in all four
cereal-growing districts of Vic-
toria this year were: Southern
Wimmera, L. H. Lange, Nati-
muk, variety Pinnacle, certified
yield 76.8 bushels an acre;
Northern Wimmera, W. L.
Borgelt and Son, Nhill (Pinnacle
and Quadrat), 57.6 bushels ;
Malice, J. M. Cooper, Nullawil
(Insignia), 43.3 bushels ;
Northern District, P. J. Ryan,
Dookie (Pinnacle), 66.2 bushels.
* * *
It is fairly well known that
bacteria in the paunch of cattle
aid the digestion of roughage;
not such common knowledge
that when calves are kept away
from older stock, and not thriv-
ing, a possible cause is a de-
ficiency of this bacteria. A
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture report advises taking cud
from cows —by hand —and put-
ting portions in calves’ mouths.
* • •
Destruction of beneficent
bacteria is one of the “buts” to
the spectacular feeding of anti-
biotics to stock. Writer a couple
of years ago dabbled in the
matter (with pigs) and discovered
that in Australia anyway—
journalistic ballyhoo and some
rather tall commercial claims
notwithstanding—not much had
been done on the research level.
Now Neil Mathieson, chief vet.
to Glaxo Laboratories (Eng.)
and an authority, is out here on
a visit and may be able to clear-
up a few of the cloudier aspects
of the subject.
W * •
International Harvester report
sale of “200 tractors and related
agricultural implements” to the
Commonwealth Government, for
Pakistan, as Colombo Plan gifts.
Tractors are 45-brake horse-
power McCormick International
Super AW-6’s.
* * •
Queensland tobacco crop for
1953-54 is estimated at
4,350,0001 b.—a rise of 30 per
cent, on last year’s crop.
* * *
In the cut-up (by auction) of
the Queensland-British Food
Corporation holdings, Vernon
Wettenhall, Queensland grazier
and a former stock-manager of
the food-farm, paid over £30,000
for two blocks (“North Queens-
land Register” report). Among
other sales, Croydon Station,
stocked with about 10,000 head
of cattle, was knocked-down
after three and a half minutes’
bidding to the N.S.W. pastoral
concern Kamilaroi Pty., Ltd., for
£ 155,000, walk-in-walk-out.
* * *
Bark-beetles have ruined 4000
million board-feet of timber in,
Colorado in the last 10 years,
and 700 million board-feet in
Montana and Idaho in one year
(U.S. report).
* * •
N.S.W. maize crop expected to
be lowest for a century.
Hints for the Farm
“Orion”: Recommending
D.D.T. for control of white-
butterfly on cabbage and cauli-
flower is sound enough, but, like
much of the advice that comes
from Agricultural Departments,
chemical firms and the like, and
subsequently reticulated through
the agricultural Press, is begin-
ning to take on the air of a cliche.
The treatment isn’t very suc-
cessful, however, unless the
application is made on the under-
side of the leaves. Poison isn’t
washed from underside by rain,
and that’s where the grub shelters
and, in the main, feeds.
“Myrr”; To control the
Argentine-ant, spray outside
walls of houses up to 3ft., paths,
boundary-fences, lower trunks of
trees and rock-work with an
0.25 p.c. emulsion of D.D.T.
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture entomologist H. B.
Wilson estimates that 12 to 15
gallons of prepared spray would
do the average-sized house-block.
The treatment will be effective
for two months, but a 2 p.c.
D.D.T. spray will control the ant
for periods of up to nine months.
“L.C.”: The cow continually
rubbing the base of her tail
against a wall or rail has dairy-
man’s itch. To cure, mix 2 parts
sulphur, 2 parts tar-oil, 1 part
potassium bicarbonate and 8
parts lard. Take a clean, soft
brush and apply oyer, and some
inches beyond, the inflamed part,
three times a day at five-day
intervals. Where numbers of
cattle are affected, a lime-sulphur
dip once a week for a month
should do the trick.
“Ann”: Cemented bags for
walling poultry-sheds and out-
houses are cheap, and, if the
work is done properly, should be
weatherproof for years. Cut bags
down both seams and open out
fiat. Space uprights to exact
width of bags, so that they can
be nailed on midway with flat-
headed clouts to form a complete
wall of opened bags. Make a
plain cement-and-water mixture
of consistency of thin cream and
lay-on with a flat kalsomine-
brush. Add second coat just
before the first starts to dry.
Cement the other side of the bags
some days later. Finally, mix
cement and sand in proportions
1 : 2 and apply liberally at joins.
The finished walls will be rigid
and board-hard and have the
appearance of asbestos sheets.
“C.A.A.”: When water isn’t
handy to the hives—say, within
quarter of a mile—it’s worth fix-
ing a permanent supply, for bees
only. Such an arrangement has
several advantages: prevents
bees becoming a nuisance to
stock and flying around the taps
at the homestead, and the bees,
because they don’t have to carry
water long distances, have fewer
occupational hazards.
“Baroona”: Keep an eye open
for slugs and snails on the winter
tomatoes. Very late tomatoes
seem to be a particular target
for these pests. Snail-baits will
account for hundreds a night
when placed wisely.
“South”: When skim-milk
supplies drop, feed pigs £lb. meat-
meal and loz. of a mixture of
four-parts lime and one-part salt,
each day. This will help keep
them in good condition during a
long dry autumn. If green-feed
is scarce make it up with 5 per
cent, lucerne, clover, etc,, as
chaff or meal.
“Billjim”: Although it is
possible to do well with broad-
beans planted in April, it is better
to wait until mid-winter, as
autumn sowings are often subject
to disease-attack. In addition,
weather often prevents setting of
the flowers until September,
when later sowings are reaching
the flowering stage. If early
beans are attacked by disease at
flowering-time plants can be dug
under to provide an excellent
green-manure crop.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The distortions arising from the large isolated spot are
still noticeable; these affected the weather at Easter to some
extent. There seems likely to be a good rain, which should
give good falls round Sydney and up and down the N.S.W.
coast. Good rains likely in May, and these should be a
turning-point in the season.
Over most of the regions north of the Riverina these
rains should mark the onset of a dry cyclical period, but
along the southern coast and adjoining territories they mark
the beginning of the winter rains. These should not be as
heavy as those of last year, but should be sufficient to
ensure a satisfactory season. The sun is still without any
further spots.


up for a foreign company, squib-
bing. There is no man in the
House of whom it can be pro-
perly said that he “trades on his
reputation as a colonel,” that
he “treats proceedings as a
farce,” that he “takes in his con-
stituents,” that he “turns dog on
his friends,” is guilty of ungen-
tlemanly conduct, venom, vile
slander or vicious, degrading or
despicable conduct, vindictive-
ness and revenge, vulgar expres-
sions, wasting time or “straight-
out wickedness.”
In the days when electors still
understood the phrase “Yes-No”
it was ruled that nobody could
be called “Georgie” in the
Federal Parliament. And so
strict are the limits within which
Parliamentary verbiage is con-
fined that it is even unlawful to
say on the floor of the House,
with the best will in the world,
that the statesman opposite is
merely a “political sausage-skin
filled with wind and water and
painted like a Chinese god.”
Instead, it is difficult some-
times to imagine what a mem-
ber can say, though nobody has
tested the ingenuities of Disraeli
or of Churchill, whose “termino-
logical inexactitude” is one of
the classics.
But then, members of the
Federal Houses have never been
famous for their ingenuity.
Neither have they to any extent
indulged in team-work, like the
two Irishmen in a State House,
the first of whom delivered a dis-
sertation on the English charac-
ter, which he declared to be
dishonest, hypocritical, murder-
ous and lewd, as a preliminary
to the onslaught of a supporting
colleague, who remarked mildly
that the greatest glory of the
Minister whom they were both
opposing was that he was an
Englishman endowed with all
the well-known characteristics of
his race.
As the first half of the team
had maligned somebody outside
the House in general terms, and
as the second had said no word
of tangible depreciation of either
the English or his Parliamentary
opponent, both doughty warriors
escaped scathless.
The MAN
AT THE
TOP
by
F. E. Dadd
i ( ~~T HERE’S another L.S.T.
f coming in, sir!”
v, The beachmaster
turned to gaze offshore,
noted that the craft was still
half a mile away, smiled his
acknowledgment to the rating
who had brought the message,
and hastily refilled his cup.
Meals were all too irregular
when the pressure was on, and
it wasn’t wise to leave one un-
finished if it could be avoided.
With the L.S.T. much nearer
and approaching steadily, he
strode purposefully across the
beach and along one arm of the
U-shaped steel pontoon the
American Seabees had placed in
position soon after the initial
landing. As he walked he auto-
matically noted the state of the
tide and the set of the current,
for these would influence the job
he was about to do.
On the seaward-end of the
pontoon a steel pin eight inches
in diameter and perhaps a foot
high was bolted firmly to the
decking. The approaching craft,
a “landing-ship, tank” with a
displacement of about 3000 tons,
was fitted with two large doors
in the bows. With these opened
outwards and spread wide, a
space was left for the lowering
of a ten-ton ramp over which
vehicles could drive. Towards
the top centre of this ramp was
a hole slightly larger than the
pin on the pontoon. With the
ramp down and the pin in the
hole, the bow of the ship would
be held in position and unloading
could proceed rapidly. It was
the beachmaster’s job to help the
ship’s captain to manoeuvre his
craft so that the ramp could be
dropped over the pin.
Deciding that the barges used
to push on the bow to offset the
effects of a cross-current would
not be needed, the beachmaster
moved to the R/T set manned
on the end of the pontoon by a
signal rating and took up the
microphone.
“Green Stork to Lager 746 ;
Green Stork to Lager 746 ; may
I speak to your captain, please?
Over.”
Within seconds came the re-
ply : “Lager 746 to Green Stork ;
captain speaking. Over,”
The beachmaster chose his
words with care: “Green Stork
to Lager 746 ; good afternoon,
Captain. I suggest that you drop
your kedge about fifty yards out
and take the way off your ship as
you complete your approach.
When you’re near the pontoon
I’ll tell you how far you have
to go and whether to steer to
the left or right. The water near
the pontoon is fairly still at the
moment. Open your doors wide
and lower the ramp two-thirds
of the way down. Over.”
The captain’s reply was con-
cise : “Lager 746 to Green Stork ;
thanks, Beachmaster, I’ll do that.
However, our doors have
jammed and can’t be opened
any wider. We’ll work on them
while we’re on the pontoon.
Out.”
A FEW minutes later the
splash of the kedge-anchor
and the grinding of the winch-
drum as the cable ran out could
be clearly heard and as the ship
nosed in towards the pontoon
the beachmaster noted with a
frown that the position in which
the doors had jammed left the
inside corners very much nearer
the water than usual.
The captain could handle his
ship ; the bow was a few feet
from the pontoon but slightly to
the left. He reported this to the
captain and noted with satisfac-
tion that the ship immediately
began to edge in the required
direction.
Almost without warning
disaster threatened. A solitary
swell, rolling in from the ocean,
rose under the bow, lifted it a
foot, eased the ship forward at
the same time, and ran up the
beach, leaving the corner of the
jammed righthand-bow-door
bearing heavily on the pontoon.
The edge of the pontoon was
reinforced with heavy angle-
iron ; in a matter of minutes the
comer of the door had driven
through the plating on the pon-
toon’s deck, but the angle-iron
held it fast. The slight swell kept
the ship and the pontoon on the
move, grinding the one into the
other.
The beachmaster took imme-
diate charge. He reported the
position to the captain and
directed him to go very slowly
astern in an endeavor to slide
the door over the iron. After
anxiously watching the pontoon’s
moorings as they felt the pull,
he requested the captain to main-
tain pressure by taking up on
his kedge-anchor instead of using
the engines.
But the captain reported that
the kedge was “coming home”
instead of moving the ship.
Using his megaphone the beach-
master asked the ship’s first-
lieutenant, who stood on the
fo’c’sle, to have the after ballast-
tanks filled and the forward ones
emptied. But the lieutenant re-
plied that this had been done.
The beachmaster sent for the
warrant-officer in charge of the
detachment of Seabees and sug-
gested that the angle-iron might
be Cut with a welding torch to
release the door. The W.O. con-
sidered this impracticable, but
offered to release the complete
pontoon, pointing out that the
seaward side of the long section
across the bight of the U could
not be forced down unless the
shoreward side was free to rise.
Admitting the force of this
argument, the beachmaster was
loath to hold up the discharge of
the ship’s cargo for the hours it
would take to free and re-moor
the section. He decided to do so
"Well , y' told me to tell y ’ in me own Words”
only as a last resort; and re-
quested the W.O. to bring a
heavy bulldozer—an eighteen-
tonner—on to the pontoon to try
to press it down by sheer weight.
TN the midst of these activities
1 the beachmaster’s immediate
superior—the principal beach-
master —arrived.
“In some strife, old boy?” he
inquired mildly.
“Some, sir,” admitted the
beachmaster.
The P.B.M. had taken in the
situation at a glance. “Why were
the doors not fully opened?” ho
inquired a trifle grimly.
“Jammed, sir,” replied the
beachmaster.
The P.B.M. nodded. “What
have you done?” he asked.
The beachmaster recounted
the efforts he had made to free
the ship and the arrangements he
had made for the ’dozer to be
brought out.
“That might do the trick,” the
P.B.M. agreed. “You’re sure her
forward tanks are blown?”
“Well, sir,” replied the beach-
master with some hesitation,
“their Number One said that
they were. I didn’t actually
check with the captain.”
“H’m,” grunted the P.8.M.,
and moved to the R/T set.
“Green Stork to Lager 746;
Captain, will you fill your after
tanks and blow your bow tanks,
please? Over.”
The reply was immediate.
“Lager 746 to Green Stork;
O. Beachmaster, I’ll do that.
Out.”
As the bow slowly rose, the
P. lifted an eyebrow at the
beachmaster and waited for his
comment. The latter stared in
disgust at the L.S.T.’s first-lieu-
tenant still on the fo’c’sle and
turned over in his mind various
caustic remarks that might meet
the situation. The lieutenant,
quite oblivious of his error,
grinned in friendly fashion and
waved as the ship slid clear of
the pontoon.
“O.K. now?” asked the P.B.M.
gently, and the beachmaster
came back to earth and managed
a reluctant grin.
“O.K. now, thanks, sir,” he
replied. “I guess next time I’ll
remember to deal with the man
at the top.”
The P.B.M. sauntered off,
thinking how easy it had been
(for once!) to justify his position,
while the beachmaster ’returned
to the routine job of securing the
L.S.T,
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 275
Across
I —These fellows are often booming
acrid directions to the poles. (8)
s—We5 —We like the Spanish rabbit-killer.
(6)
8— Smallest tales include a way to
the pasture. (5)
9 The expressions of an Australian
conductor named Percy are in
such keys as these. (4-5)
12 — A spy in the Japanese base’s
conversations. (4)
13— Eyesore canonised you. (4)
14— It isn’t against the law on
Jolson. (5)
17— Decorate the Northern Territory
at last with the alternative
monicker. (8)
18— In with this squabble for tea. (4)
21 — Some cloths are so multicolored
and tight. (4)
22 — The 16th of the third arc perhaps.
(3-5)
24 —A French flat isn’t suitable, but
Guido’s tonic contains forty
winks. (5)
26 — Monitor with an improper idea.
( 4 )
27 — Hot serves in case champion
daredevils appear. (4)
29 —Mother of the spotless relative of
one who feasted unhappily under
a suspended sword. (9)
31— Thanks the overhead duck lake in
N.Z. (5)
32 — Bend and follow on, old egg, if
scrambled. (6)
23 —Yes, the wood is the first rope
from mast to bowsprit. (8)
Down
1 — Congratulations, for so the
newsagent records your order!
(5, 3,3)
2 Gay clothes make Pat spring, (9)
3 Grub feeds. (4)
4 I go to bed surrounded by nine
evidences of fag. (8)
5 We have nothing within but
misery. (3)
6 Shoot; an heir if the odds are
against a sail arrangement. (5)
7 Article associated with Vegas. (3)
10 — A help in reducing Parliament.
(4)
11— Bills for Esther. (8)
15 — A long sentence added to his con-
servative biography. (4-7)
16 — Prosaic little devil with the Old
English muscular twitch. (8)
19 — Where to serve the royal estab-
lishment with a warning of course.
(9)
20— Psyche airline to ring one of the
Philippines. (8)
23 —The objective is one bit of bag-
gage. (4)
25—The vulgar face of Capone used
in Solomon’s temple. (5)
“-French to be in .he Tec. (4)
29 '-Bagdad lsn t given the sack by
* e man - C)
30—Lumber journal. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 274


fds
sctrp/cts Ptiposa/s
Stores
429 Pfrrsr cw. Campbell $r
SYDNEY At A 7308
Goods to Your
Satisfaction —or
money Refunded
/U/57WU45
GENUINE ARMY
BATTLE DRESS
TROUSERS
WWW
*0
m.
i
s
kirn
fds
WORK SOX
ARMY TYPE HEAVY-
WEIGHT KHAKI. ALE
SIZES
4 prs. for £1
Post 1/6.
WE SELL THOUSANDS”
The biggest news for years!
Timely release of 300 pairs
only extra heavyweight win-
ter serge. Brand new and
perfect S.Ds. Battle Dress *
(as illustrated) and plain.
Amazing offer, worth at
least £5 pair.
*Battle Dress
Type, all
pockets. Pair
59/6
Post 2/-. Sizes to 37 -\taist.
~* Same HIGH Quality
as above, with-
out front
pockets. Pair
52/6
Post 2/-. Sizes to 35 waist.
LIMIT of 2 pairs.
AIR FORCE
SHIRTS!
BRAND NEW and Perfect,
service blue in sizes 15 to
17, no collars with these,
cost around 30/- each.
iOUES NOW
FOB ONLY
12/6
Plus 1/6 each post.
LIMIT of 4.
SHIRTS! SHIRTS!
GENUINE “R.A.N.” NAVY-
BLUE DRILL. SUPERB
QUALITY. BRAND NEW !
Extra sTxll Cut, Short
Sleeves, one pocket, COL-
LAR ATTACHED. The
Shirt You’ll NEVER WEAR
OUT.
TERRIFIC
BARGAIN AT
OffLl'
A-1
Plus 1/6 each post.
Size, too.
Every
SHIRTS I SHIRTS!
ARMY TYPE KHAXvI
DRILL BRAND NEW AND
PERFECT, COLLAR
ATTACHED, long sleeves,
full cut, two styles available
HOW. . mm f.
With one pocket ... I//0
With two flap pockets,
epaulettes (Armym/f
pattern) 19/6
Every size, post 1/(5 each.
WHITE
COMBS
(As illustrated)
TERRIFIC OFFER! Brand
New and Per-
fect. 60/- value.
Sizes 4’s to B’s.
39/6
AUW
LIMIT 2 prs. Post 2/6 pr.
Blue or Khaki
COMBS
(As illustrated)
HUGE SAVINGS
ON THESE.
New! Perfect.
Under cost. 65/-
value. Sizes 4’s
to S’s. Now ..
47/6
LIMIT 2 prs. Post 2/6 pr.
TROUSERS
ARMY PATTERN. Brand
new, 'Vfide Loops, etc.
40/- value. All
sizes. Now, pr.
Amazing offe r.
Post 1/9 pair.
31/6
BATTLE DRESS K.D.
OB J. GREEN
TROUSERS
“The Strides with all the
Pockets.” Guaranteed pro-
shrunk. Out
they go. 65/-
value. Pair
Sizes 4’s to S’s.
44/6
Tost 2/- pair.
Ex-R.A.N. K.D.
TROUSERS
(With Fall Front)
NEW I PERFECT !!
COST 50/-
Sacrifice Price
Sizes to 37in.
waist. Post
2/6 Pair.
25/-
BOOTS!!
Work Boots for Every Man
at Sensible Prices.
Black Army type Treble
Soles with Toe Cap. Strongly
made for tough
work. Special at
pair
37/6
Sizes 6,7, 8,9, 10.
Black or Brown Army type,
no Toe Cap. Treble Soles
with Toe and Heel Plates.
Selected Leathers.
Bargain, pair
Sizes 6. 7,8, 9, 10.
42/6
ELASTIC SIDE
BIDING BOOTS
„ r _ Alv _. ~ „ In black or tan, PERFECT
FIT AND MAKE, well known brand at reduced
S r^4,« Wort V? 60/ - P air - Siz es 5s to 10s.
Post 3/6 on all boots. OUR
49/6
FLYING BOOTS!!
SENSATIONAL RELEASE!
R.A.A.F. Type Fully Fur Lined
EVERY SIZE
£lO VALUE
SOLID LEATHER
SOLES
Made to Rigid
Specifications.
New and Perfect
. Add 5/- packing- and Reg. Post.
FLYING GOGGLES
£6/10/
Bx-R.A.F.
MK iv BRAND NEW
PERFECT ! Fitted with remov-
able “ANTI-GLARE” attach-
ment, set of “NIGHT LENSES,”
together with complete box of
spares.
WORTH AT LEAST £lO
Our Very Special Offer
25/■ pr.
Add 3/- post.
DON-R" SUITS
nny pattern. GEN.TJTN E
fATEBPB OOF THROUGH-
UT. HEAVYWEIGHT ENG-
,ISH RUBBERISED CLOTH,
i.B. COAT, FULLY BELTED,
IIG, ROOMY POCKETS,
RO USERS HAVE EVERY
EATURE. Fully shaped at
nkles, with boot support. The
omplete suit is yours for only
75/-
All sizes at present,
,dd 3/6 post Easily worth £10!
MEN'S SHOES
AIR FORCE TYPE
(as illustrated!
IMELY RELEASE OF JUST
)0 pairs of these solidly made
foes. YEARS OF WEAR IN
VERY PAIR.- In Black or
an. Perfect fit Guaranteed,
rand New and Perfect. Sizes
:om 5 to 10.
WORTH 85/- Pair
OUR PRICE ONLY
49/6 pr.
Post 3/-
BALACLAVAS
BRAND NEW
[IRE WOOL. EVERY SIZE.
IN NAVY OR GREY.
OUR PRICE ONLY
12/6 Each
Post 1/6
LONG U'PANTS
.
m
LONG U’PANTS
EX-ARMY PURE FLAN-
NEL, SIEVER GREY.
BRAND NEW AND PER-
FECT. All sizes. Stock
iU» no®.
2 for 30/-
rost 27-
FLANNELS
GENUINE EX-ARMY.
BRAND NEW. Slightly
mothed. SM and Men’s
only. Big Bargain.
2 for 307-
post 2/-
U.S. ARMY
GLOVES
Ex-U.S.
Genuine
White
Gauntlet
FLEECY
Ideal for
One-third
Disposals.
American
Canvas
Gloves.
LINED,
all work,
of value.
7/6
Pair. Post Free
AIR FORCE
BATH
TOWELS!
Just released. Brand
new. Heavyweights,
thick, absorbent.
Made by ‘DICKIES'
for our AIR
FORCE. Brown
with blue stripes.
Give Away Price.
19/6 pr.
Post 2/- pr.
LIMIT 3 prs.
REAL “IRISH LINEN”
TEA TOWELS, EXTRA LARGE, STRIPED
BORDERS. Unhemmed. BARGAIN.
6 for 307-
Post 3/6
r
ii
I UN
m
EXTRA
3ci
extra
ARMY
BLANKETS
THE GENUINE ARTICLE.
HEAVYWEIGHT SILVER
GREY ALL PURE WOOL.
SIZE (vOin. x SOiu. TIMELY
RELEASE. GUARANTEED
IN PERFECT ORDER.
AMAZING PRICE AT ONLY
25/- ea.
Post 3/6 each for more than
one, add 3/- cartage to rail.
STOCK UP NOW!
Special Offer!
2 for 35/-
BRAND NEW IMPORTED.
Dark Grey—a Wool and a Cotton.
60 x 80, OUR PRICE 19/6 EACH.
Add 3/- cartage to
DON’T MISS THESE.
ran.
LIMIT OF 6
IMPORTED COTTON BLANKETS
500 ONLY. BRAND NEW AND PERFECT. PLAIN
GREYS WITH FANCY BORDERS, SIZE 46 x 70.
1000’s of uses for these. Snap up O/A ©Q,
price / •
Post 2/-. Or
4 for 35/-
Post on 4, 3/6
SHEETS ! SHEETS !!
GOOD QUALITY U/BLEACHBD, D/BBD SHEETS.
72 x 90, fully hemmed, soon becomes sparkling white.
Long wearing. Sheets have centre join. Three hun-
dred pairs only at the sensational price of
32/6 per pair
Post 2/- pair. LIMIT of 6. Post on 6, 4/6
Precision Trough Type Compass
Cost approx.
£6
Yours for the
amazing
price of
m
This precision trough type Compass has 5 degrees
deflection plus or minus. Bearing is synthetic sap-
phire. Cocking device prevents injury in transit.
Was used as a Master Compass by the Army, AND
IS THEREFORE DEADLY ACCURATE. Cost
approximately £6 to produce. Whatever you do. don’t
miss these. Our price, 6/-, posted within the Com-
monwealth. Weight 4oz. Illustration shows two-
thirds actual size.
XXX SPECIAL ■
"Japara" Car Covers
Back again. Pure “Japara” Covers, made from
R A A.F. target sheets. They’re the most sought after
cover everywhere. Light, yet waterproof. Two
sizes available, but supplies are limited.
All covers fully eyeletted and double sewn. Add
3/6 post.
15 x 12
£7/10/-
18 x 12
£B/10/-
POLO-NECK
PULLOVERS
Timely release of well-
known brand. Heavy
wool mixture. Brand
new and Perfect. Now
in navy, grey or
maroon.
33’s to 38’s
40’s to 43’s
Post 2/-
32/6
39/6
LEATHER
SAFARI JACKETS
GENUINE COW HIDE
Our super special at re-
duced prices. Superb cut
and finish. Fully lined, zip
fitted, 2 big flap pockets,
one zippered breast pocket,
full belted. All sizes.
Usually lOgns.
Our Price Only
Post 4/6
£B/15/-
YANKEE
bush fob
THESE
"BATTLE DRESS" JACKETS
SENSATIONAL RELEASE!!
Highest Quality PROOFED IMPORTED
GABERDINE. Eully WOOL LINED. Exact
Copy of UiS. Army War-time Jacket. Inner
Zip Closure, Action Back. Very Smart. In
Wanted Fawn Shades. Easily
worth up to £lO. OUR PRICE
Sizes 4, 5 and 6
Post 2/6
85/-
MEN'S
■
i k I
“Factory sell - out.”
Far, far below cost.
D/J{ style, fully
bJlted, well cut, made
from heavy canvas,
rubber backed,
guaranteed fully
waterproof. Amazing
Bargain offer.
79/6
All sizes. Post 4/-
M
EX-B.A.A.F.
INNER
FLYING
SUITS
BRAND NEW!
Fully zippered.
Quilted kapok-fllled.
Extra warm. Ideal
for motor cyclist's,
drivers, farm wor-
kers, etc.
All sizes.
COST OVER
£l5.
OUR SFECIAE
OFFER
95 /■
EACH
Post 3/6
RUSH THAT
ORDER NOW
R.A.A.F. RELEASE
soqt
H*
THESE HAVE JUST BEEN RE-
LEASED BY THE DISPOSALS COM-
MISSION AND ARB THE BEST
WE’VE HAD FOR YEARS.
HEAVYWEIGHT ROT- AND WATER-
PROOF SPECIALLY TREATED TO
STAND ALL WEATHERS. PRACTI-
CALLY NEW CONDITION. WITH
ALL ROPES. EYELETS, ETC.
ONE SIZE ONLY AND PRICED FOR
QUICK CLEARANCE AT
18 x 12
£lB/10/-ea.
Add 3/<> cartage to rail.
Would cost over £4O to make to-day.
STRIPED AWNING CANVAS
300 yards available. 73in. wide heavy-
weight Imported. Popular green stripes
on light grey background. You’d pay
up to 17/6 yard anywhere.
OUR PRICE ONLY
9/11 yd.
plus 1/6- yard postage.
HURRY FOR THIS!


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane and Lismore, N.S.W,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Shearing
Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
Thta entire page hi a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
VMparcd Monthly by MOFFAT-VIBTtrE LIMITED
April
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture.
1954
STEEL BY PRESCRIPTION
FOR INDUSTRY...
Modern Industry demands better materials than ever ... so that better
products can be manufactured ... so that the wheels of Progress can
move ever forward.
The steel used everywhere—in
your motor car, your refrigerator,
in aeroplanes, and trains, in
machinery and buildings —is
stronger and more enduring be-
cause it has been made to special
“prescriptions,” tailored for
special jobs by being treated with
“vitamins” and “tonics.”
These “vitamins” come from the
manufacturers of the alloy metals,
and are mixed to prescription at
the foundries.
The "mixing bowls” are huge
white-hot electric arc-furnaces, in
which temperatures reach higher
than 3,300 degrees Fahrenheit.
Here alloying metals are blended
with steel. Metals rare and com-
mon are refined and concen-
trated, and give to steel, indi-
vidually or together, properties of
toughness, hardness, rust-resist-
ance and other special qualities.
Chromium, for example, is the
secret of making steel stainless.
Amazing new methods of deter-
mining the structure, hardness
and strength of steel have been
evolved so that today industry is
able to specify, and be sure of
getting, the exact type steel re-
quired for a particular purpose.
Machines are now being used
which measure tensile-strength,
and also metal “fatigue,” that is,
showing the load a metal will
take without its usefulness being
destroyed.
The hands in the photo-
graph are operating one
of a battery of high-
speed drills, helping to
turn out faultless parts
qt minimum cost.
At Moffat - Virtue’s
factory up-to-date
methods, streamlined
plant and conscientious
and highly - skilled
labour combine. .. so
that you can buy
quality machinery at a
reasonable price.
AUSTRALIA KEEPS IN LINE WITH
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENTS
The modern scientific develop-
ments in the selection and testing
of raw materials, alloys, etc., used
in manufacture have been fully
utilized by Australian Industry.
Many large Australian concerns,
too, employ large staffs of trained
research scientists and engineers,
whose job it is to develop new,
better and cheaper methods and
materials.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., has a fully
equipped Test-Section at its
modern Rosebery, N.S.W., fac-
tory. Here some of the latest and
most accurate measuring devices
in Australia are used, including
the amazing “ROCKWELL”
Hardness-T ester.
Various materials are constantly
checked to ensure they will give
the machine into which they will
be built the operating life it was
designed to have.
Higher Quality and
Lower Costs...
Behind every new idea is the
search for higher quality and
cheaper methods. Mass-produc-
tion has proved the biggest boost
to industry, for it enables the
manufacturer to keep the latest
technological advances within
reach of his market.
Moffat-Virtue engineers ensure
that the materials used in the
manufacture of Moffat-Virtue
Products are of the highest
quality. Rigid specifications have
been drawn up and constant and
thorough checking ensures that in
the whole process of manufacture
the highest accuracy is main-
tained. No Moffat-Virtue Pro-
duct leaves the factory until it
has been checked, tested and
approved down to the last nut
and bolt.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., considers its
duty is to ensure that the M.V.
Product you buy meets with your
complete satisfaction and gives
you the service it is designed and
built to give.
Details of any of the range of Pre-
cision-Built and tested MOFFAT-
VIRTUE PRODUCTS may be
obtained from any of the State
Distributors listed at the foot of
this page.
Here Are Some Of The Range Of Moffat-Virtue
Products...All Famous For Dependability
Moffat-Virtue Lines include: Ball-Bearing Shearing Machinery, and Handpieces; Sheep-
Jetting Plants; Pest Arrestors; Combs and Cutters; Simplified Milking Machines; Petrol,
Kerosene, and Diesel Engines; Sawbenches; Lighting Plants; Roller Spray and Boom
Spray Equipment; Spray-Irrigation Equipment; Fire-Fighting Equipment; etc.
No. 8 Overhead
Gear with full
Floating Trans-
mission.
Home Lighting
Plants.
Simplified Milk-
ing Machine.
Petrol, Kerosene
Engines. (Also
Diesel Types.)
Fire-Fighting
Equipment.
Sliding-Top, All-
Steel Sawbench.
Roll e r Spray
Plant. (Boom
Spray also avail-
able.)
Two-stand Semi-
Portable Shearing
Shed.
