

THE HOUSE
df
OF SEPPELT
d
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 75~N0. 3906
KWINANA P4G£ 25
Wednesday, December 22, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WINDSOR’S ERSTWHILE HOME, FORT BELVEDERE
NEAR Virginia Water in Surrey and five miles from Windsor Castle is the
great mansion Fort Belvedere—associated with the abdication of King
Edward VIII in 1936,
This historic building with its towers and turrets was built in 1750 by
George 11. Later the Duke of Windsor, as Prince of Wales, held it on a
tenancy from King George V and became its owner on his accession in 1935.
He introduced many new features, including a hard tennis court, an open-an
swimming poo! and central heating. For seven years before his abdication
it was the Duke of Windsor’s home, and he described it as the perfect
bachelor’s residence. It was in his rooms there that the Duke, then still
King Edward VIII, weighed his duties as King against his wish to marry
; n those historic days of December, 1936. It was in the Fort that he
composed his farewell broadcast message, giving his reasons for renouncing
the throne. And it was from there that he set off on his journey into virtual
exile on abdication night, December 11th, eighteen years ago.
Since then the house has remained empty except during the Second
World War when some of its thirty-five rooms became offices of the Crown
Lands Department. It is no longer required as a “grace and favour residence
and in 1953 it was handed over by H.M. the Queen to the Commissioners o
Grown Lands. In November, 1953, the Duke of Windsor, when in England,
paid a farewell visit to his old home.
Virginia Water, the huge artificial lake near the Fort, takes name
from Butcher Cumberland, of Culloden fame, who was Ranger of Windsor
Park and one-time Governor of Virginia The lake, which covers an area
of 160 acres, was formed in 1746 by damming a number of streams an
the overflow waters form a splendid cascade over the stone dam. The lake
is surrounded by magnificent trees and rhododendrons on the edge of Great
Windsor Park.
Also nearby are the meadows of Runnymede—one of the most historic
sites in England, for it was there in 1215 that the barons forced King John
to put his seal to Magna Carta, the first declaration of the rights of the
citizen.


BOOKSEARCHING
is our business. We locate new or
out-of-print books in any language.
Send to us for that book you can’t
find; we get results.
THE WAKELYS
C.p.O. Box 2656, Auckland, C.l, N.Z.
You’re looking for a book? BOOKHUNTER
will find it for you—any book from any-
where . • Quick service moderate charges....
Write to BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road,
Darling Point.
The Red Page
POEL AND SHAKSPEARE
Modern stagings of Shakspeare owe
almost everything to William Poel (1852-
1934); exactly how much is shown in
William Poel and the Elizabethan Revival
by Robert Speaight (Heinemann), the
Poel centenary volume published for the
British Society for Theatre Research.
Son of a well-to-do engineer called
Pole, Poel began as an architect, threw
this up in 1876 to become an actor, and
in Bristol joined Charles Mathews’s
company on a provincial tour, during
which a printing-mistake in the pro-
gramme made him “Poel” instead of
Pole, and he decided to stick to the
misprint. For two years he toured the
provinces, acting many parts, and doing
many odd jobs behind the curtain ; then
he became a “general utility man” at
theatres in Dublin and Liverpool; he
toured with Osmund Tearle ; played in
Scotland and at Oxford ; and then had
nine months with James Scott’s company,
a shoestring company, lucky, when its
short season ended in one town, to have
enough money to get to the next; offer-
ing prizes of tea, coffee, an umbrella and
a teapot for Friday-night audiences.
In 1878 he toured the provinces giving
recitals from Shakspeare and Sheridan,
“picking up an audience wherever he
could” ; and in 1878 he formed a little
company, “The Elizabethans,” giving
scenes from Shakspeare, Sheridan, “The
Hunchback,” “The Iron Chest” and
“Eugene Aram.”
The very simple conditions of these per-
formances threw the actors back upon the
text, and Poel himself was forced to com-
pare the acting editions of Shakspeare
then in use with the original versions of the
plays The Shakspeare who met the
student in 1879 was a Shakspeare trimmed
for the study; he bore little trace of the
swift, continuous rhythm, and the boisterous
hurly-burly of the Elizabethan stage.
He discussed these matters with the
president of the New Shakspeare Society,
Dr. F. J. Furnivall; and in 1881, at St.
George’s Hall, he give his first Eliza-
bethan production using a bare, draped
platform and the First Quarto “Hamlet.”
He argued that the First Quarto bore
all the marks of having been pirated by
a reporter of an actual performance in
Shakspeare’s time. Mr. Speaight makes
a considerable analysis of the innova-
tions of this performance and then says:
It will now be clear in what sense the
performance at St. George’s Hall was his-
toric. It was historic in the sense that it
was seminal. There is nothing new today
in “Hamlet” being performed in curtains;
there is nothing sensational in the appear-
ance of Forflnbtras. No one will raise an
eyebrow if you suggest that “Hamlet” is a
play drenched in Renaissance thought, or
that while Hamlet should never behave like
an actor, there is every reason why he
should, on occasion, behave like a cad.
The romantic Hamlet is now the reaction-
ary Hamlet, and the sentimental Hamlet is
obsolete. These changes might never have
come about if William Poel had not had
the startlingly original idea of reading the
play as if he had just borrowed the promp-
ter’s copy from the Globe Theatre.
With this production, he was on his
way to the succession of plays he did with
the Elizabethan Stage Society: “Measure
for Measure,” “The Two Gentlemen of
Verona,” “The Merchant of Venice,”
Milton’s “Samson Agonistes,” “Every-
man,” “Macbeth,” Marlowe’s “Dr.
Faustus,” “Troilus and Cressida,” etc.
In 1893 at the Royalty Theatre he
developed his idea of the apron-stage,
separated from the two-doored tiring-
house that formed the back of the stage
by a curtain which could pull back on a
scene while the actors of a previous scene,
played before the curtain, were getting off
the stage ; or close on a scene just played
behind it while the actors were trooping
on to play before it. He placed great
emphasis on the top, or balcony, over the
tiring-house for battlement scenes, or,
indeed, the balcony-scene; though, in
this, his ideas have been challenged as
recently as February of this year in the
American magazine “Atlantic” by none
less than the formidable American
finder-outer and confounder of scholars,
Leslie Hotson.
Mr. Hotson (he discovered the truth
about the death of Marlowe, “Shelley’s
Lost Letters to Harriet” and other
matters) turns over the remarkably-
Little evidence there is and concludes
that there were no scenes acted from
the rear balconies at the Globe Theatre,
firstly because this would have taken the
actors too far from the public out in
front and secondly because (he says) it
is quite obvious that these balconies were
reserved for the nobility. He goes
further with performances given in halls
and palaces for the Queen, etc., and says
that the stage was set in the centre of the
hall, so that it could be seen “in the
round,” by people on all sides ; that the
“tiring-houses” were lightweight con-
structions on the stage itself ; and that
there was also light scenery on the stage,
so constructed that at any particular
moment most of the audience could see
what was going on —which seems rather
a tall order. But Mr. Hotson is worth
listening to.
This, of course, does not lessen the
innovations of William Poel. He had
his own ideas on “the tones” for speaking
Shakspeare, and an actor either had them
or he did not; but his efforts to give an
“Elizabethan” performance did not pre-
vent him cutting the plays about to speed
them up, or bowdlensing “Measure for
Measure,” by changing “He has got the
wench with child,” to "He will shortly be
a father.” He was a tyrant with his
actors, not allowing them to eat before
a performance. An actress who had been
ill, and had got out of bed that day,
confessed to drinking a glass of burgundy
on doctor’s orders before a rehearsal ;
whereupon he slapped her face —birt
apologised very gracefully afterwards.
Poel was not himself considered highly
as an actor; nor were his shows very
successful. Mr. Speaight prints extracts
from many reviews of them which show
that, at any rate, the lesson was sinking
in. It is characteristic of him that his
really great success was his production
of “Everyman,” first put on in 1901 in
the Master’s Court of the Charterhouse
(having been turned down by West-
minster Abbey and Canterbury
Cathedral). This made him “famous
overnight”; it played a month in a
London theatre, and was received with
“hushed enthusiasm” in theatres and halls
all over England and in Edinburgh. Yet
he wrote to Gordon Craig, “I hated the
play, because it was so against all I
believe....” and later he wrote to a
critic, “I do not believe in the future of
religious plays.... an acted religion
is of all insincere and odious things the
most insincere, the most odious. And
the tendency of such plays is towards
sentimentalism and claptrap, which are
blasphemous in conjunction with
religion
It is also paradoxical that after
his first production of “Hamlet”
Poel spent some two years (1882-83) at
the “Old Vic”—as manager of the Royal
Victoria Coffee Hall, as it then was,
arranging variety-shows, a ballad-
concert on Thursdays, a penny-reading
every Friday and a children’s enter-
tainment on Saturday afternoon: —-
It is an extraordinary comment OTI
theatrical affairs that Poel should never
have directed a production at the Old Vic
when it had ceased to be a house of Variety
and had become a home for Shakspeare.
Mr. Speaight has produced a fine
monument, rich with Poel’s Shakspearian
and acting scholarship, and his own.
Complete with photographs of Poel and
many scenes from his productions.
The Behavior of Lovers
Having a liking for the bush and an
interest in social justice for mankind in
general and the aborigines in particular,
a man with a talent for verse may well
imagine that those are the subjects on
which he should write his poetry; and
so, perhaps, until he finds out what he
really wants to write about, he should.
Nobody could deny that there is a
certain amount of pleasure to be got
from what may broadly be termed the
sociological poems in John Thompson’s
Thirty Poems (Edwards and Shaw, Ltd.,
Sydney); it is enough that there are
phrases as good as “in this wary, gaunt,
oracular bush” and “this raw geology.”
But, to take an extreme example of the
apparent misdirection of his talent, how
flat and curiously old-fashioned, as if it
was from an 18th-century pastoral, is
the description of the corroboree in “The
Conqueror”: —
Secretive elders from the glades of twilight
Command all souls to sacraments and vigils
Of a most ancient Mystery. Now the men-
folk
Rig and endue themselves for pregnant rites.
Singing the rings of red, the dots of
yellow
These are not the aborigines seen in the
profound and passionate light of vision
as they have sometimes been, for example,
in the poetry of Roland E. Robinson.
They are not alive ; and neither is the
poetry.
Maybe the reason for the comparative
weakness of verses of this kind in Thirty
Poems (though they are never without
charm) is that John Thompson was trying,
for sociological reasons, to write with
more intensity than was natural to him,
making propaganda instead of poetry:
for it is the essential lightness of the
mood in the majority of the new poems
that is their chief attraction. It is in their
lightness that Mr. Thompson seems to
have found, after many explorations,
both poetry and himself.
Lightness in poetry is nothing to dis-
miss lightly: on the contrary, if a writer s
bent is towards satire and gaiety, the
amused observation of the human
comedy, that is obviously what he should
write: he will do his best work in it, and
it is the genre in which Byron wrote.
If one cannot see John Thompson taking
Roland Robinson’s place as a poet of the
bush and the aborigines, neither can one
imagine Mr. Robinson replacing Mr.
Thompson as an observer of lovers in
Sydney . . . setting down with such acute
perception, such felicity of satiric phrase,
such ironic maturity of mind, his report
on the pair who have parted for the third
time:
Soon, encountering face to face in a caf6—
She with her curled hat-feather and eye-
He with his ice-cold incandescent eye—
They nonchalantly speak of petty things,
The headlines and the weather, slightly
hinting
A light disdain for cither’s romps and rorts
Now grown the sudden scandal of the city.
They bid Goodbye: then, two days later,
meet
More privately, by accident. One weeK
more,
They slap each other’s cheeks in Martin
Place, . . .
And straightway their artesian passion jets
Anew. Oh never have there been such
bores.
There is nothing superficial in the
lightness of this poetry: indeed “Married
Quarrel,” with its triumphant outcry of
“You suffer, too, thank God!” is almost
an excessively profound picture of that
state of bliss to which so many of us are
called. But the tone, the mood behind
the poem, remains always gay ; and the
reader would be hard to please who did
not, as well as admiring the technique,
thoroughly enjoy “Letter to a Friend” (a
light instead of a “serious” travel-poem),
“When Forty Summers,” “I Watched Old
Learning,” “A Testament,” “The Adven-
turers” and even, with whatever rueful
reservations, “Married Quarrel.”
A River Near Sydney
The story of The Careless People, a
novel by Helen Fowler and Bernard
Harris (Angus and Robertson), is: A man
and a woman are having an illicit affair
in a shack on a river near Sydney. The
man injures himself falling over a cliff
one night, so the couple risk discovery.
Avoiding that, they decide that friendship
is better than love.
Whether a story that can thus be told
in 43 words is worth spinning-out to
some 70,000 words in a novel—and of
course many a great book could be sum-
marised as baldly—depends on how much
the central structure is enriched: by in-
terest and variety of characterisation, by
the interweaving of subsidiary themes, by
the dramatic development of the central
theme, by humor or passion, by evocation
of the setting and by the quality of the
prose.
Helen Fowler and Bernard Harris do
write well, and do very pleasantly evoke
the river, which is so very like the one
everyone will imagine it to be that it
might as well be called by its right name,
thus heightening the local interest of the
novel:
A boat with four children in it came into
view and she watched them splashing each
other. Those Willis children never tire of
rowing, she thought Frowning, she
turned her eyes to her page, but as she
began to work a stutter of sound made her
glance down the river to where a tiny craft,
dwarfed by distance, was rounding the
bluff opposite Neilson Island ... .The rivei
is a living being, she thought. No one
who lives near it could regard it simply
as a stretch of water; the passage of the
craft upon its surface were the veins
through which its life-blood flowed and the
pulse of their motors was the beat of its
heart. This great creature, which lay
smilingly before her, was like a kina
companion.
But for the rest, the story is beaten-out
very thin. Though a few other charac-
ters do appear —the wife of the lover
and the husband of his mistress ; a doctor
friend ; a pleasant river-denizen named
Mr Cray —the bulk of the book is hardly
more than a duologue between the two
principals, or, rather, since they are only
briefly together at the end, a set of pro-
longed monologues by each in turn as
they meditate on the scenery and their
problems.
There are no sub-plots; no humor
except in a few glimpses of Mr. Cray,
no genuine intensity ot passion in the
central love-story —it takes a lot to make
a Wuthering Heights.
The basic weakness, though more
variety would still have been needed to
make the story worth while, is the failure
clearly to observe the central characters;
for if the lover can deceive his wife by
pretending he is subject to mental ‘‘black-
outs” —a most implausible device—he is
a very much tougher egg than the vaguely
amiable figure portrayed.
Library-readers may enjoy the novel
as well as any other, but one would have
expected something much more substan-
tial from Helen Fowler, whose bestselling
The Shades Will Not Vanish, if too much
concerned with neurosis, was at least full
of interest and variety ; and also from
Bernard Harris, whose long short-story
in The Bulletin about a nightmare
patrol in New Guinea was as powerful a
piece of suspense-writing as one has seen
for years. They are writers who will
probably do much better in their next
novel.
Simenon Novel
Since a “New Yorker” “profile” dis-
closed that Georges Simenon has, for
many years, averaged annually eight
novels written at top speed direct on to
the typewriter, he has become, to this
reader, an object of awe. It suggests a
basic recipe and slick craftsmanship, but
those Simenon novels which have been
translated into English (many very short)
do net show any signs of haying been
written to a formula: their similarities
are only of the sort which might belong
to any writer who has developed a per-
sonal style.
Across the Street (Routledge & Kegan
Paul), well translated by John Petrie, is
one of the later books in which Simenon
has abandoned the “detective-story”
genre without dispensing with murder.
The central character, Dominique, is a
spinster of 40. Peeping from behind
the shutters of her flat she can see in detail
many of the events in the opposite apart-
ment, where a wealthy old couple live on
the floor above their weakling son and
his attractive, vital and “common” wife,
Antoinette. Dominque—daughter of a
general, desperately poor now, but gain-
ing snobbish satisfactions from memories
and from occasional contacts with her
relations —despises Antoinette, but finds
a horrible fascination in observing small
details of her dress (and undress) and
behavior. And when she cannot see into
this flat she can listen to her own lodgers,
a newly-wed and overwhelmingly alive
young couple—she can peep at them
through the keyhole, be disgusted at the
sounds of their love-making and preen
herself on her own virtue.
Then Antoinette, observed by Domi-
nique, stands and watches her husband
die when some of his medicine would
have saved him. Dominique takes no
direct action: she writes a few poison-
pen letters to the widow and sits back to
watch the drama. But over a period of
months, while the widow continues to
live with her in-laws, and while the
young couple next door continue to make
love, Dominique gradually changes.
She begins to live through Antoinette.
She follows her when she goes to meet
her lover. She becomes at once more
frustrated and more human, but she also,
too proud to press her lodgers for their
rent, becomes half-starved.
The two main events of the story,
murder and denouement, occur right at
the beginning and right at the end of the
book. And this is where Simenon’s speed
of writing becomes so incredible, for
what holds the reader’s interest is the pre-
cise, careful and original detail of the
writing in between, and the skill with
which suspense is maintained and height-
ened by a series of important, but essen-
tially undramatic, incidents. One can see
and feel and hear and smell these people
all the time;- —
Her feet met once more the rough grain
of the yellowish, ill-fitting flagstones. She
saw her reflection, tiny and misshapen, in
the brass knob on the staircase, and her
hand slid with physical contentment along
the polished banister rail She was home
at last in the bedroom, the one room
to which she had confined herself and
which she would sometimes wish smaller
still, the better to charge it with herself.
There is nothing mass-produced about
writing like this.


FRONT PAGE NEWS!
V.O.L. AND
h 2 o
FORCE OF
HABIT!
PARTY
LINE
. . . and Anthony Horderns’ have plenty of both ! (Our tower contains
40,000 gallons of water to feed our sprinkler system.) And we have ample
supplies of V.O.L. Scotch Whisky, too, in our well-stocked Wines and Spirits
Department on the Ground Floor, Goulburn Street. Whisky has an
interesting historical background, and the following extract from Hollinshed s
Chronicles, 1577, should tickle the humour (or the palate) of advocates of
whisky for medicinal purposes. "Being moderately taken, it sloweth age; it
strengtheneth youth; it helpeth digestion; it abandoneth melancholic, it
relisheth the heart; it lighteneth the mind; it keepeth and preventeth the hed
from whyrling, etc.” We can assure you Anthony Horderns own high
quality V.O.L. Scotch Whisky is the finest you can buy. 29/- per bottle.
In dozen lots or included in mixed wine and spirit dozens. We deliver FREE.
Ring 80951.
A friend of ours rang the other day to place an order, and, as the call came
through on our old number (which very shortly will be discontinued), it
led us to reflect on how often our actions are governed by the force of habit.
Now, although most people know that Anthony Horderns’ telephone number
has been changed to 80951, it is natural that, after so many years of dialling
the old number, one is apt to do it automatically. For your own convenience,
we suggest that you cultivate the good habit of dialling 80951 in the future
—it saves time and helps us to help you to instant service. The reason why
the Telephone Department changed Anthony Horderns’ number to 80951
is because it enables us to accommodate more lines with greater efficiency.
When you ring 80951, ask for T.0.P.5., our streamlined Telephone Order
and Personal Shopping Service.
Every Saturday morning at 11.30 you’ll see Australia’s biggest Birthday Party
on our second floor. What a great idea for parents ! All you do is book
a table for your party, any number, at a fee of 3/3 per head (jazz caps,
sweets, cakes, extra). Anthony Horderns do the rest. Small cakes, soft
drinks, sandwiches are all supplied, tables decorated and music provided—
and not one moment of work or worry for you. Bookings are now being
accepted for January. Any child having a birthday has a free birthday call
over the "air” by 2GB on or near their birthday. Bookings are taken on
our second floor.
f
P.S. Have breakfast in Anthony Horderns’ at 8.30 every day.
THIS IS JUST SOME OF THE NEWS OF ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
COME IN AND SEE MORE. ROX 2712, G.P.O. 80951


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 22, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3906
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A NATION-WIDE PROBLEM
IT used to be said that the only Australian news
that got into the English papers was that telling of
floods or droughts. True or not, the notion itself
emphasises the exceptional importance of water in
a continent where, excluding the Murray-Darling
system, most of the rivers either have a compara-
tively short journey to the sea or else lose them-
selves in the thirsty sands of the dry inland; and
this, of course, explains why such a large propor-
tion of public works in Australia—just how great
a proportion probably few Australians realise—is
concerned with the control, conservation or use of
water.
The Snowy Mountains scheme, mighty in con-
cept and execution, has in recent years over-
shadowed all other projects in Australia, but there
are many other works at various stages of develop-
ment, more still in the blueprint stage and others
again which exist only in the brains or hearts or
on the lips of enthusiastic advocates. There is no
one-way road where water-conservation is con-
cerned. Methods may vary from the individual
water-farming projects advocated by Hector Geddes
and successfully demonstrated by him at Badgery’s
Creek, near Sydney—described elsewhere in this
issue—to large-scale irrigation-settlements such as
those on the Murray and Murrumbidgee and those
now being established along the Burdekin in
Northern Queensland.
Three States have a direct interest in the Snowy
scheme. Victoria and New South Wales stand to
gain from the vast quantity of hydroelectric power
that will ultimately be fed into their electricity-
systems; the same two States, plus South Australia,
will reap the benefit of the water to be diverted
into the Murray and the Murrumbidgee, for by
1958 the scheme, although planned primarily as a
power-producer, will provide an additional
500.000 acre-feet of water for irrigation.
The three States have long been partners with
the Commonwealth in the conservation of the
Murray waters, and their Parliaments have recently
passed legislation authorising the enlarging of the
Hume dam to increase its capacity from 1,250,000
acre-feet to 2,500,000 acre-feet. The immediate
beneficiary will be Victoria, the most irrigation-
minded State in the Commonwealth, and the only
one of the partners consistently using its full quota
of Hume water. In contrast with its southern
neighbor, N, S. Wales has not developed the
northern bank of the river very extensively,
preferring to concentrate on the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area, watered from Burrinjuck.
South Australia uses between a third and a
half of its quota of Murray water to irrigate about
40.000 acres, and, in addition, takes water by pipe-
line 223 miles to Whyalla and a further 100 miles
to the Woomera Rocket Range, and is now drawing
on the Murray for portion of Adelaide’s water-
supply.
The reason for the extension of the Hume
storage when its present bounty is not fully
utilised lies in the necessity to make provision for
the droughts which, on past history, must be
expected to recur. The Victorian Minister for
Water Supply explains it:—
Should a prolonged drought occur....
Victorian diversions from the Murray would have
to be restricted in the second year of drought to
less than one-half of our normal requirements,
and the consequent loss in production, and losses
in capital by damage to permanent plantings,
would probably be in the vicinity of £2O million.
Even with the storage of two-million acre-feet, the
loss could be considerable.
The irrigation-settlements along the Murray,
together with those on the Goulburn and its other
Victorian tributaries, plus the Murrumbidgee,
comprise over nine-tenths of Australia’s irrigated
land. Although it is natural that the more accessible
parts of the continent should have been first
developed, it is unfortunate from the national view-
point that some of the money and effort expended
in developing the south-east comer of the Common-
wealth was not diverted to the north.
The Murray Valley Development League
envisages the day when there will be a million
people living along the Murray. That day will
surely come, and a prosperous community it will
be; but a million people on the Atherton Tableland
or along the Burdekin River would be a much
more valuable national asset.
Queensland’s water history is a story of feast
and famine; the average annual rainfall at record-
ing-stations varies from 169 in. at Babinda to
at Glengyle. In the dry west the evaporation-rate
exceeds lOOin. a year.
There is already a sizeable area of irrigated
land in the Dawson Valley in Central Queensland,
but enthusiasts talk of a dam on the Dawson River
(a tributary of the Fitzroy) which would impound
2,000,000 acre-feet of water and make the valley a
second M.I.A. On the Atherton Tableland the
Queensland Government is pushing ahead with the
Mareeba-Dimbulah scheme, designed to irrigate a
large tract of land by a series of weirs on the Walsh
River, and a dam at Tinaroo, on the Barron River,
with a capacity of 320,000 acre-feet. Hydroelectric
power is already produced at Barron Falls, and a
few miles away the Tully Falls are being harnessed.
These, with other hydroelectric works planned for
the Herbert, South Johnstone and other streams,
would give the Tableland a total potential of
250,000 kilowatts, which is not far short of the total
output of the whole of Queensland’s present power-
stations.
The biggest project in Queensland is the
harnessing of the State’s biggest river. The
Burdekin River Authority has a long-range plan
which is going ahead slowly. Small areas at
Millaroo and Clare, south of Townsville, are
already in production, and the ultimate goal is a
storage of 4,000,000 acre-feet—more than one and
a half times the capacity of the Hume dam—
irrigating an area of 250,000 acres to be devoted to
dairying, cattle-fattening and the growing of cotton,
tobacco and sugar.
These schemes are, of course, planned for the
benefit of Queensland, but their early completion
would be to the advantage of all Australia. Talk
by responsible persons in the southern States about
“the empty North” is overfamiliar, but most
seem content to leave the developing job to
Queensland or, in the case of the Kimberleys, where
a 2,000,000 acre-feet dam on the Ord River is
being discussed, to Westralia.
The States concerned in the Murray Waters
Agreement are fortunate in that each has to put up
only one-fourth of the cost of the works. It is too
much to expect Queensland and Westralia to find
the whole of the money needed to pay for the
works that will enable them to people the North.
The defence powers of the Commonwealth have
been stretched to include the Snowy Mountains
Scheme. Surely they have enough elasticity to
assist in providing insurance-cover for Northern
Australia.
Water-conservation is a national problem, and
should be tackled on a national basis. This would
mean an agreement on priority for works of most
importance to the continent as a whole—a principle
so far resisted by some States. As a start the
Commonwealth might concentrate on convincing
the southern States that they have a vital stake in
the development of the North.
Liberals and a Pact
THE next State election is Liberalism’s oppor-
tunity in N. S. Wales. “Labor” is at an all-time
nadir. Its reputation is gone. It is suspect of being
the plaything both of sectarian influences and of
the Communist party, which A.L.P. conferences,
and even Dr. Evatt himself, have at times declared
to be the instrument of a foreign and hostile Power.
The unions are divided as between the Communists
and the Right. The party is in the same condition.
“Labor” is, in fact, ripe "for the axe—a
divided, quarrelling crew. The Cahill Govern-
ment, with its past record of strange associations,
with the odors that hang around it, with its hanger-
on coteries of get-rich-quick opportunists in the
Sydney City Council, is particularly meat for the
block. It is open to complete destruction by oppon-
ents who know their politics and who oppose it
with the right men.
And at this crucial point those who run the
Liberal party of New South Wales turn aside to
develop a fight with their allies, the Country party.
It should be the function of individual
electorates, not of some central and unelected
coterie which represents nothing but a party-fund,
to decide who shall be nominated within their
boundaries and who shall be elected. It should be
the prerogative of Parliamentary parties to decide
who shall be their allies, and of the electors at the
polls to indicate whether they approve the choice
of allies. But Liberalism in N. S. Wales has copied
the worst features of “Labor’s” junta system, and
the coterie in Ash-street act as dictators, with
disastrous results whenever they meddle in
Parliamentary matters.
Mr. Robson, taking over the State Liberal-
party leadership a few months back, very sensibly
set out to secure harmony with the Country party
both in the conduct of Parliamentary business and
for the next election-campaign. He suggested that
the Liberals should agree not to contest four
“Labor”-held seats —Mudgee, Dubbo, Young and
Liverpool Plains —in which the Country party, on
the basis of polling in previous elections, considered
the fight should be left to it as the party on which
the Liberals, if they secure sufficient seats in the
next State election, will depend to keep them in
office. The reaction of city interests against this
proposal was so strong that Mr. Lyle Moore,
president of the Liberal party, offered his resigna-
tion rather than agree to it.
Had Mr. Moore and his followers been con-
sistent and favored opposing the Country party
in all the seats in which there would be Country-
party opposition to “Labor,” a different view
might be taken of the matter. But Mr. Moore and
followers seem to have no stomach for fighting
except where it is thought that something might be
snatched easily from Liberalism’s allies. They
are not in favor of contesting the five other rural
seats which “Labor” holds—Armidale, Castlereagh,
Murrumbidgee, Sturt and Cobar —which it is
apparently thought that the Country party has less
chance of winning. It is a strange principle which
objects to Liberals voting for the Country party in
seats which may be won for Liberalism but favors
their supporting Country-party candidates in
electorates which “Labor” is likely to win. Nothing
could be much more cynical.
The Liberal State Council has supported Mr.
Moore, in what amounts to a vote of no-confidence
in Mr. Robson, The decision proves the council’s
unfitness to serve a State-wide party, and indicates
its basic lack of knowledge, of rural political
opinion.
The Country party did not come into existence
and continue to exist through a generation merely
because of the whim of narrow and selfish leaders.
It has survived with a solidity and continuity
unknown to its allies. Whether it has been on the
side of victory or defeat its strength in N. S. Wales
and the Commonwealth has varied very little, and
this has been because it has served a particular,
specific and unchanging political need of a very
large body of rural voters who are borderline cases.
There are large blocks of countrymen who, by
tradition, regard the Liberals as agents of city
interests. They would sooner vote for Auld Clootie
himself than for a Liberal candidate. If the
Country party were not there they would vote for
“Labor” or for independents.
The issue could be easily settled —by leaving
decision to the electorates and regions where this
type of voter predominates. In South Australia it
has been so settled. There one central political
organisation looks after the machinery of elections
and leaves the rest to the voters themselves. Candi-
dates for the polls determine whether they prefer
to sit with the Liberal party or the Country party.
There have been cases in which they have changed-
over without local disturbance—Mr. Archie
Cameron, who had been leader of the Country
party, was one.
In coalitions in the Federal Parliament
Liberal party and Country party have worked
amicably together for a generation, the Country
party accepting the minor role, content to infuse
into Liberal policy those features which it believes
to be vital to country welfare. The only real
division in the Government benches at Canberra
is one of name, and no issue has ever arisen which
has threatened seriously to destroy the alliance.
In the N. S. Wales Parliament the same amity
exists between the leaderships ; if there is a section
of the Liberal rank-and-file which dissents from
the leaders’ policy it does so only under the
influence of the Ash-street organisation, which
seems bent on selling the next election to “Labor”
for the satisfaction of continuing a futile and
fruitless quarrel.
The election-pact which the Liberal Council in
N. S. Wales has rejected was formulated by the
Country party and agreed to by Mr. Robson. It
envisaged, apart from partition of electorates, a
coalition of which the Liberal leader would be
leader—and Premier if the election were won—and
the Country-party leader would be deputy-leader.
It provided for joint meetings and joint committees
to ensure unity of policy and action in Parliament;
for a mutual respect of the rights of each party in
electorates already held; and for a mutual election-
effort in every electorate by whatever party held.
The Ash-street heads of the Liberals rejected
that commonsense arrangement. They will have
nothing short of amalgamation on “generous terms”
which are equivalent to the swallowing of the
Country party. There has rarely been a more stupid
display of dunderheadedness.


THE RAINMAKERS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Petrovs at a Party
Dr. Evatt has never exhibited his vin-
dictiveness towards the Petrov Commis-
sion more nakedly than in his statements
about the somewhat silly events of the
party given by the secretary after the sit-
tings had ended for the year.
The commission is a large and complex
agency, like a small department of the
Government, housed in its own offices
and with its own staff, which has been
working night and day at high pressure
and under great strain. ,
The commission’s secretary, a young
official of the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment who is the head of the commission’s
clerical organisation, decided to hold a
Christmas-party for the staff—clerks
and others associated with the inquiry.
It was apparently a private party, not
paid for with taxpayers’ money. It began
at the usual hour of these functions —
5.30 p.m. The three commissioners and
the senior counsel, Mr. Windeyer, Q.C.,
paid the staff the compliment of putting
in dignified appearances at the beginning.
After half an hour or so they left.
Half an hour later still Some Security
man felt it in keeping with the Christmas
spirit of the occasion to bring Mr. and
Mrs. Petrov, two lonely people, along.
Since the unfortunate pair have been
living under such close Security guard
that no doubt Security men who are
living with them feel that they are part
of the family, it may not have seemed un-
natural to enable them to enjoy a little
Christmas brightness—it may even have
seemed heartless not to do so. But it
was certainly indiscreet while they were
in the position of witnesses, though jus-
tice can be no penny the worse off—
indeed may be better off, since the inquiry
is not a trial but a search for information
about matters of great moment to the
safety of the country. The more confi-
dence the Petrovs have in Australia’s
kindliness towards them, the more they
are likely to tell.
Whatever happened could not have
affected the impartiality of the commis-
sioners. They were not there when the
Petrovs were there. It is certain that if
they had even known the Petrovs would
be there at any time they would not have
attended; neither would Mr. Windeyer,
a counsel whose procedure and fairness
have been impeccable.
But this does not matter to Dr. Evatt
and his man-Friday, Senator (“Fixer”)
Ashley, and Allan Fraser. Dr. Evatt
thinks the affair of “vital importance to
the Australian people”—he compares it
with the attendance of a Crown-prosecu-
tor at a social occasion with the chief
witnesses of the Crown present. It is a
ridiculous comparison. He declares that
“the judicial approach to vital questions
has been neglected,” He says that “by
attending the party, as Mr. Herde
admitted,” the commissioners had “ter-
minated their usefulness in the capacity
of judicial officers for the time being.”
His attitude is all the more curious
because he himself was not scrupulous
as a Minister in showing himself impartial
about royal commissions. When he was
forced to appoint a royal commission into
the shocking cases of those enemies of
the Communist party, the Australia
First men, he, as Attorney-General,
announced to the press on the eve
of the inquiry that any person who
rushed in to make political capital out of
these cases “will find, when the full facts
are disclosed, that he is on the side of a
group prepared to stab Australia in the
back during the period of our greatest
peril.... undoubtedly a quisling subver-
sive, anti-Australian and anti-British
group.”
It was, of course, an untrue statement
of the position on the evidence, but was
covered by privilege. And it is staggering
that an ex-High Court judge who con-
sidered such a proceeding normal and
just should make such a fuss about the
present storm in a tea-cup.
Oceans of Wheat
The International Wheat Council, in a
funk over the big wheat-surpluses in the
Americas, is warning everybody of a
“great danger of a disastrous break in
wheat-prices” because the surplus is
likely to be sold on the “free” market
(that is, outside the control of the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement) at prices
well below I.W.A. prices.
The council says there must be a
wheat slump ; prices have held so far
only because the big exporting countries
have kept their surpluses off the market.
Further: “A special working-committee
of the U.N. Food and Agriculture
Organisation said that ‘Measures to dis-
pose of surpluses already in existence
will not solve the surplus-problem
unless parallel measures are taken to
avoid accumulation of new surpluses.’ ”
In plain English that means cut down
acreage.
In a world whose food-supplies are
being rapidly overtaken by an increasing
population, millions of whom can’t get
enough to eat, that doesn’t say much
for the U.N, visionaries and their belief
that if everything is left to them some
kind of a paradise-on-earth will follow.
Minister for Commerce McEwen, in
New York, came in with the statement
that “We are worried by the great U.S.
surpluses of wheat and dairy-products
..,. . we think the U.S. should not con-
tinue to encourage surpluses which it
cannot consume.”
It seems the U.S. Government, and
perhaps the Canadian, has got a bit tired
of paying farmers to grow things and
then storing the produce uselessly while
more accumulates. The North Americans,
a pretty practical lot, are apparently
convinced that when your storehouses
are chock-a-block with goods that can’t
be moved at ruling prices the sensible
thing to do is reduce prices. Britain
anticipated that very thing by pulling
out of the I.W.A.
But that method is totally opposed to
the ideas of the Government marketing-
officials our Welfare-by-Controls system
has thrown up, though they have shown
all along the line that they have no practi-
cal answer when Nature or man’s energy,
or both, confront them with something
they hadn’t thought about.
None of this, of course, is any comfort
to the Australian wheatgrower, who is
committed to a Commonwealth stabilisa-
tion-plan and the 1.W.A,; who has a
strong case for a bigger home-consump-
tion price for his wheat; and who is
committed not only to quotas and
official prices but also to his costs for
the coming sowing-season.
Behind it all is the eager Communist,
waiting to turn this fact of wheat-
surpluses and starving people to his own
propaganda purposes, though it has come
about largely through the very same
kind of bureaucracy which would burst
into full and terrible bloom under
Communism.
Change of Address
Of all possible victims of the cold war,
Santa Claus would seem the least likely
to be added to the list. War, even of the
hot variety, has never interfered very
much with his annual rounds. At times
he may, for caution’s sake, have crossed
off his calling-fist small areas where
battles were in actual progress—more out
of consideration for the safety of his rein-
deer than for anything else —but he has
never had any difficulty in getting safe-
conduct passes from one warring country
to another.
As to the frigid part of the cold war,
that should worry him even less than the
warring, as he spends 364 days of every
year somewhere up near the North Pole,
diligently preparing for his one-day
world-tour.
For obvious reasons no one has ever
recorded the exact location of Santa’s
workshop, but most authorities place it
somewhere in Lapland, which, if not
exactly at the North Pole, is, in popular
conception at least, cold enough, snowy
enough and far enough away to satisfy
most demands. Moreover, it is known
to be plentifully supplied with reindeer
and Christmas-trees, whereas the North
Pole is notably deficient in both.
Lapland itself is a rather indefinite
place; the atlases show it stretching
across the top of Sweden and Finland,
with a tiny piece overlapping into Russia
(possibly the portion that was the birth-
place of Rudolph, the Red-nosed Rein-
deer).
The sovereignty of Lapland is a second-
ary matter ; what is important is that for
generations Santa has set out from that
land every year on Christmas Eve, with
sleighbells ringing and his sleigh stacked
high with good things. But this year it
appears that watchers on the indefinite
borders of Lapland will watch in vain ;
the old gentleman has found himself an-
other depot.
During the last few days thousands of
Australian children have received official
notification of this change of address in
the form of air-mail letters from Santa
himself. There’s no doubt about their
authenticity. There’s the picture of Santa
on top; there’s a mention of the private
requests of the recipients which could be
known to no one but Santa; and the
letter is headed “North Pole station.” But
it’s postmarked “Fairbanks, Alaska,”
which is half a world of longitude away
from Lapland.
It is probably too late now for Sir
Percy Spender to take up the matter with
U.N.0., and Santa has probably worked
out his new schedules to fit the altered
itinerary, but it is too much to expect that
even his well-trained steeds will be able
to adapt themselves to such a drastic
change without some hitches. There are
bound to be a few disappointments.
However, the matter must not be
allowed to rest there. By next Christmas
Santa Claus must be re-installed at the
old address —even if it means making
Lapland the 49th State of the Union.
Constitution Reform
The entry into the field of Constitutional
reform of Sir John Latham, former Chief
Justice of the High Court, is encouraging
to those who realise the desperate
inadequacy of the existing Constitution
and the immense cost in litigation to the
public of its inadequacies and ambiguities.
Sir John says that the matter requires
“urgent consideration,” that there is “too
much conflict between Governments at
present,” that Section 92 had been a
headache to Parliaments and judges ever
since it was enacted. He dwelt on some
of the aspects of Privy Council decisions
which invest the interpretation of Section
92 with an air of complete uncertainty
about its significance and application.
He declared that “some steps should Be
taken to see that the Constitution is not
a bar to progress but an active help in
the progress and development of the
country.”
His outline of the measures which are
needed by way of reform may cause
violent disagreement on some points, but
they have historic significance in provid-
ing a starting-point for discussion and
negotiation which was not there before.
He has mentioned four ways of dealing
with Section 92. The first is its repeal,
so as to allow State Parliaments to have
full power to legislate on inter-State
trade and commerce, with the Federal
law overriding State laws where they con-
flict ; but he approaches this need in a
pessimistic mood, because, as he says,
“there is not much chance” of reform,
since the section “promises that some-
thing is free, although we don’t know
what it means.”
Then he puts forward the revival of
the Inter-State Commission to supervise
and enforce the laws of Parliament and
the provisions of the Constitution in
respect of inter-State trade. He proposes
that the commission should be an inde-
pendent body with power to investigate
and report on the amendment or annul-
ment of both Federal and State laws.
He then makes a suggestion that a new
Section 92 might be drafted when it has
been decided what we want Section 92
to do, but this again he believes to be
not practical politics, because every con-
flicting interest “hopes to get something
out of Section 92 some day.”
He further suggests an amendment of
the Constitution to give the Common-
wealth Parliament full control over indus-
trial conditions. The arbitration system,
he says, rightly, is “the most complex in
the world.” It is only one of the many
absurd restrictions on the power of the
national Parliament that it cannot legis-
late about industrial conditions; it can
only establish arbitration courts and
authorities to do so, while the States, by
contrast, as in so many other matters, have
full sovereign powers. Thus, there are
six State industrial systems and one
Commonwealth system operating.
What is more absurd, the Common-
wealth arbitration authorities can only
deal with disputes big and expensive
enough to extend beyond the borders of
a single State. It is, he says, a system
which makes for “conflict, controversy
and absence of co-operation” between
employer and employee.
Beyond this, he wants reform of the
financial relationships between Federa-
tion and States, with a system of per
capita grants to allow the larger States
to budget ahead, and greater responsi-
bility on the shoulders of the States for
raising their own revenues. He requires
that the Commonwealth should have full
control of aviation and navigation.
Further, he suggests autonomous
regional decisions on the formation of
new States and the excision of the pro-
visions which make the present sections
in the Constitution dealing with the
question so much worthless writing.
Finally, he calls for reforms which will
provide for contemporaneous elections
of the two Houses of Parliament.
Sir John is not the only authority mov-
ing. The Australian Natives Association
(A.N.A.) has had a deputation to the
Prime Minister. Mr. Menzies took a
pessimistic view of the chance of amend-
ment so long as the Opposition could not
be made to agree to any plan put forward.
The Opposition, which is exclusively
party in its viewpoint and has the narrow-
est possible 'outlook, will not agree until
it is forced by public opinion to do so.
It regards reform at present purely as an
instrument for promoting socialisation.
It is time the pressure began to be
applied, through an organised move. And
the A.N.A., which originally did so much
to force Federation, might enjoy a huge
revival of popularity if it took charge of
the reform crusade and pursued it vigor-
ously and urgently.
Confusion Worse Confounded
The position of the A.L.P. goes from bad
to worse as the lanuary conferences
approach. The intrigue has become as
complicated as a game of chess.
The latest move in N. S. Wales-—one
conducted in anything but a Christmas
spirit—was a “private” meeting of 24
“rebel” trade-unions bent upon the
“cleansing” of the New South Wales
A.L.P. executive. The details of the
“private” gathering, of course, immedi-
ately appeared in the press —or at least
such of the details as the advocates of
free and open dealing and the opponents
of secret diplomacy with the 24 unions
thought fit to let out.
The main essence of what took place
was that the meeting hunted heresy with
a big stick, its quarry being members of
what it has chosen to designate “The
Movement,” described as a diabolical
combination behind the industrial-groups
This mysterious directing-power, spelt by
its adversaries with capital initials as if it
were the Deity, is further vaguely described
as “an outside influence,” the 24 unions
having decided that to set the seal of
sectarianism on it any more than has been
done might be very bad indeed for the
“Labor” party at the next polls.
What had hitherto been called the A.L.P.
industrial-groups are now discovered
to have nothing to do with the A.L.P.
at all, “From information in the 24
unions’ possession,” they are “a separate
organisation controlled by The Move-
ment,” which has a “cell functioning
within the N.S.W. Central A.L.P. Execu-
tive.” This “determines the policy and
decisions arrived at by the State
Executive,”
It is extraordinary how attractive
A.L.P. executives are to parasites. It is
only a few years since the late Mr. J, T.
Beasley discovered that the same execu-
tive had fallen completely into the hands
of the Communist party, which was thus
controlling and directing innocent people
like Mr. McKell, who recoiled horrified
from their associates —comrades who
had been controlling “Labor” for years
while openly sitting on Communist plat-
forms and committees when the revela-
tion was made. Now it is anti-Commun-
ist extremists who are the villains.
Innocent, clear-eyed young “Labor”
men like Mr, Dougherty, general-secre-
tary of the A.W.U., Dr. Evatt and other
earnest toilers who have kept sedulous
watch on the morals and ethics and asso-
ciations of the “Labor” party have been
utterly and grossly deceived by an insidi-
ous and wicked external influence which
has gradually permeated the “Labor”
party until it has crystallised into a sort
of secret society of which true-blue
leaders never suspected the existence and
influence until the light dawned on Dr.
Evatt at the moment when he was most
in need of a diversion to shift- public
attention from his association with the
Communists in the proceedings before
the Petrov Commission.
Mr. Dougherty, in particular, is
shocked at the discoveries he has made.
He has announced that “the wording of
the rules and constitution of the A.L.P.
industrial-groups give them a vfcneer
of respectability” without placing them
under official “Labor” control.
He gives the impression that they are
a sort of exclusive Ku Klux Klan which
refuses to bow the knee to the A.L.P.,
and which it is harder to enter than the
Union Club.
He skates over the fact that if the
“groups” did not adopt this attitude of
exclusiveness they would have been so
honeycombed with Communism that they
might some day wake up and find Mr.
Malenkov elected as their honorary presi-
dent—outside organisers are not quite
sure whether they are not already honey-
combed wtih large blocks of Red sup-
porters and underground Muscovites.
However, the 24-unions’ conference, of
which Mr. Dougherty is spokesman, has
unearthed and exposed the names of the
26 leaders of The Movement in New
South Wales, not every one of them with
(i Continued on next vase)


an Irish name, but very nearly, and
including Senator J. Armstrong and Mr.
F. Daly, M.P. for Grayndler and Oppo-'
sition-Whip in the Federal Parliament,
and Mr. G. Anderson, member for Kmgs-
ford Smith, who looks and sounds about
as much like the leader of a dangerous
faction as Santa Claus.
The Victorian position, with legal
actions and threats of more, has become
so complicated that those involved in it
scarcely dare to breathe, since the slightest
zephyr applied in the wrong direction
might make the whole political party
blow up. _ _
It is very difficult to see how Dr. Evatt
and his opponents within the party can
sit together during the next session of
Parliament. Already there is talk of a
diabolical conspiracy to replace him and
his group in the leadership with real
“Labor” men like Messrs. Pollard and
Ward.
POLITICAL POINTS
There’ll be no revolution after all; the
banks have been given permission to
remain closed on New Year’s Day.
• •
On December 16 the House of Com-
mons passed a motion expelling a member
who had recently been sentenced to seven
years’ imprisonment for uttering forged
documents. This is one of the things that
simply couldn’t happen in Australia —
no Australian Parliament is ever in session
as late in the year as December 16.
• •
Egyptian public servants now risk fines
if they read newspapers or fall asleep
in office-hours. However, thq traditional
privilege of public servants has not been
entirely ignored ; the penalty for sleeping
is lighter than that for reading.
• •
Russia has threatened to annul the
Franco-Soviet Treaty if France ratifies
the Paris Agreements. The reason given
is that under the treaty the two countries
agreed that neither should enter into a
separate agreement with Germany. At
that rate France has every right to do
the annulling ; Moscow has made a whole
string of agreements with East Germany.
• •
Clarey, M.H.R., interviewed in London
after representing Australia at U.N.,
said that Australian unskilled and semi-
skilled workers enjoyed a better
standard of living than their oppo-
site-numbers in America. He also said
that he hoped to be back on the Federal
executive of the A.L.P. before long.
He won’t be if he repeats his first state-
ment in the hearing of his colleagues;
their declared policy is that margins for
semi-skilled and unskilled workers are not
high enough.
• •
There’s agitation in Sydney to get Cahill
to copy Cain’s example and drop price-
controls ; there’s agitation in Melbourne
to get Cain to emulate Cahill and intro-
duce late-closing for pubs and petrol-
stations. Neither will play; Premiers
don’t like to be thought copy-cats.
• •
The case of Australian professional
cricketer Bruce Dooland has ended
on a poor note for other pros,
and a lot of other people. Dooland was
taxed in England on £4B thrown into a hat
by appreciative Lancashire cricket-fans
—it being the custom to put in for a
pro. when he does something special,
such as knocking up 50 runs or taking
a hat-trick. Dooland had won the first
legal rounds and judges had not spared
the tax authorities. Unmoved, these
gentlemen went to the London Court of
Appeal, claiming, among other things,
that waiters’ tips and benefit-money paid
to pro. footballers were taxable. Their
appeal was “regretfully” upheld. Among
those now thinking it over are pugs who
share coins thrown into the ring and
parsons who benefit from special church-
collections.
• •
By February the tenants of Victorian
Housing Commission homes will be able
to enter into contracts to buy the houses
they occupy. Price will be based on the
mean of the capital-cost and the replace-
ment-cost ; interest will be 4\ per cent.,
and the deposit 5 per cent, for the first
£2OOO and 10 per cent, on the remainder.
• •
America, the prop and mainstay of the
Western or Free or Democratic or
Whatever-you-may-call-it World, pours
out Niagaras of treasure, maintains huge
armed forces at home and abroad, ships
armadas of machinery, food, clothing
and medicine to “underprivileged”
nations, is to every honest Australian eye
our protector in the Pacific, yet can’t do
a thing right in the eyes of some people.
Now, to cap it all, U.S.A. is being held
up as a selfish and grasping entity because,
having a surplus of farm-products worth
over £2500 million, it prefers to sell the
stuff rather than bum it.
S.A. Rhodes Scholar for 1954 is lan
Wilson, son of former Senator and
M.H.R. for Sturt, K. C. Wilson.
• •
Incredible as it may seem to anyone
who has followed the Cahill Govern-
ment’s policy of painless killing of muni-
cipalities by amalgamation, N. S. Wales
now has two new shire councils. It isn’t
really a change of policy; the new shires
have been hacked out of the Western
District by pushing out the boundaries of
Bourke and Brewarrina municipalities to
include areas of 16,778 sq. miles and
7505 sq. miles respectively. Provisional
councils have been appointed and will
function until the next local-government
elections in December, 1956.
• •
Cabled from Washington that the U.S.
Navy intends to keep secret the results
of an official investigation into the “Silent
Propulsion of Whales.” This is unfor-
tunate ; there might be something in the
report which could have been applied
with profit to Sydney’s noisy trams.
• . •
Included in A.W.U. secretary
Dougherty’s list of members of “The
Movement” —most of whom have denied
STICKY WICKET
membership—was the name of Senator
Armstrong, who in denying the charge
said, “It is a conspiracy. I am going
to see if Dr. Evatt will defend me.”
To date the sworn enemy of all con-
spiracies has made no move.
• •
There’s nearly 2000 million bushels of
stored wheat on hand in U.S.A., Canada,
Argentine, and Australia, Contemplating
this, the International Wheat Council
forecasts a price - slump. Australian
Wheat Board chairman Teasdale doesn’t.
He believes that “strong national organi-
sations” will hold the surplus off the
world-market and says no major crops
will come in until “about next July.”
Well, isn’t it about next July that the
1955-56 prices will be fixed?
• •
Haircuts are up threepence in Victoria,
a fact which has brought an I-told-you-
so from Cain. At 3s. 6d. they’re still a
trey cheaper than in Sydney.
• •
“In the ACT”: Uncertainty on the
future role of the School of Pacific
Administration has been resolved by an
announcement that there is no decrease
in the importance which the Government
placed on the school’s work. Territories
Minister Hasluck says the changes will
allow the school to concentrate more
effectively on the training of public
servants for the territories, and will make
the courses available to a wider range of
officers. The courses are to be revised ;
the school is to provide a “long” course,
and also frequent refresher-courses, and
it will be moved from Mosman (N.S.W.)
to Canberra as soon as possible. The
school’s main purpose
is to give to all officers in the Territorial
public service a broader understanding of
the special nature of the duties and responsi-
bilities which public servants have to dis-
charge when working in a dependent
territory.
In the past 10 years the public service
of the Territory Administrations has
quadrupled. The present staff of 1675
includes a much higher proportion of
permanent men than previously, and thus
a greater proportion of well-qualified
officers. An additional intake of 740
officers is planned in the next three years.
• •
The Cain Government has drawn its
first million from Tatt.’s, after only five
and a half months of the gambling
frenzy, so its estimate of two and a
quarter million for the financial year
isn’t likely to be far out. It is said that
Cain is so pleased with his astuteneess
that he is thinking of taking out a ticket
under the pseudonym of “Strike me
lucky.”
• •
“X.S.”: The search for a foolproof
definition of crime-comic continues in
Melbourne. Pointed to as perfection is
the Canadian example: “Crime-comic
means a magazine, periodical or book
that exclusively or substantially comprises
matter depicting pictorially (a) the com-
mission of crimes, real or fictitious, or
( h ) events connected with the commission
of crimes, real or fictitious.” On the sur-
face this seems sound enough, but unfor-
tunately it fits equally well “Hamlet,”
“Othello,” “The Bacchae” of Euripides
and portions of the Bible if any publisher
puts them out in picture-strip form.
• •
Britain’s post-office made a profit of
£7,300,000 last year. There was a time
when ours used to make a profit, too.
• •
“Stromlo”: Even in these days of
aircraft and cold-conditioned tractors
there are uses for the old-fashioned
methods of travel in the Antarctic. In
mid-October, it is reported, Dovers and
Schwartz left Mawson base with two
sledges and 16 dogs, and travelled
Eskimo-fashion, killing seals to supple-
ment their rations, to the southward
limit of King Edward VIII Gulf. They
discovered several new mountains, picked
up l|cwt. of geological specimens, and
made some magnetic, tidal and weather-
observations. They got home to Mawson
on November 22, covering 165 miles in
the last 5\ days. Total mileage 550.
• •
Road-safety people in Amsterdam, as
part of a programme to make people
more conscious of the toll of death on
the roads, fly a flag at half-mast when-
ever a fatal accident occurs. Denmark is
adopting the same practice. If intro-
duced into this country it would be more
effective to keep the flag at half-mast,
hoisting it to the top of the pole only on
days when no fatal accident was recorded.
• •
Writs have been filed in the High
Court challenging the validity of recent
amendments to legislation affecting road-
hauliers.
• •
Export-prices of Australian commodi-
ties were down 9 per cent, in October,
compared with 1953-54 figures. Sharpest
decline was in hides, 36 per cent. Wool
and wheat were both down 13 per cent,
and dried-fruits 9 per cent. Metals were
up 16 per cent.
• •
There’s talk in London of Government
action to do something to stem the tide
of colored immigrants. The most likely
move seems to be a quota-system which
will apply to would-be immigrants from
all Dominions and colonies, regardless of
skin-pigment.
• •
In electing Leo Barry for his 18th term
as president the Snowy River Shire
Council reduced his presidential allow-
ance from £2OO to £lO4. Obviously the
council stands in need of a sharp talk
from Sydney Lord Mayor Hills.
• •
Yallourn brown-coal has been success-
fully made into coke, which has been
used for the smelting of pig-iron. So far
the process has been on experimental
lines only, but Victorians have high
hopes that it will lead to complete in-
dependence of outside sources of coal.
Brown-coal already supplies all Vic.’s
electricity and is on the way to meeting
its gas-needs. Home-grown coke would
complete the chain.
• •
Since the Menzies-Fadden Government
assumed office in 1949 new construction
and “upgrading” of roads in Northern
Australia has covered 2951 miles, and
700 miles in New Guinea and adjacent
islands. In addition, 33 new or substan-
tially improved airfields have been estab-
lished in the north and six in New Guinea
and the islands.
• •
Many prominent “Labor” men have
adopted the habit of sleeping on the floor
to make sure there’s no one hiding under
their bed.
• e
When the Joint Committee on Public
Accounts investigated grants to “quasi-
governmental and public organisations”
it was not unduly surprised that all the
witnesses urged retention of the system.
Typical of bodies affected were the
Standards Association, the Surf Life
Saving Association and church missions
in the N.T. The witnesses argued that
their activities could be handled more
successfully than if undertaken by a
Government department. A voluntary
body could enlist the enthusiasms of
voluntary workers in industry, science,
art, economics and social service in a
way an official organisation found im-
possible, and at a cost below what the
official agency would have to pay. The
joint committee recommended that
wherever possible grants should be for a
fixed period and for specific purposes.
Authenticated statements of the year’s
activities should be supplied, and if the
grant were for a particular purpose the
organisation should also certify that there
had been compliance with the purposes
and conditions of the grant.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
A WELL-KNOWN bookshop has sent
me its Christmas catalogue. One
page is headed “Especially for Christ-
mas,” beneath which smaller lettering
adds that “Books Say ‘Happy Christ-
mas’ then follows a list of titles and
prices, together with brief notes about
the books. The first of these says:
“Terrible. But it could have happened....
one of the most upsetting books I have
had in my hands for a long time...,”
Merry Christmas! —“Alma.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Quack”: A friend of mine was
pleased when his day-boy son was asked
to live-in for a week for cadet-classes;
not that he imagined the boy would make
a good n.c.0., but because he hoped the
college might bang a few table-manners
into him. When the classes ended, I went
with my friend to see the marching-out
parade, and the boy came home with us.
“Did they make you take your elbows
off the table?” my friend asked. “No,”
the boy said. “Did they stop you eating
chops with your bare hands?” “No.”
“Didn’t they do anything about your
table-manners at all?” said my friend.
‘Well,” his son said, “on the second day
they put a screen around us.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Craiser”: Overheard in a Toorak
tram bound for Melbourne: “What a
wonderful garden you have, Mr. Ragat-
sky.” “So.” “How do you do it?”
“So.” Pause. “Did you go to the circus,
Mr. Ragatsky?” “No, but I went the
morning after and got five barrowfuls.”
❖ ❖
“Edale”; Whatever the current
economic trend may be, it is obvious
“And the TV-set is thrown-in with the carpet ."
that the female form is heading towards
inflation. The fashionable silhouette
resembles an atomic cloud-formation—
a billowing mushroom of fabric sup-
ported by a rather lengthy stem. And
this is not the end of the comparison, as
the froth of fabric appears to be as
uncontrollable as the radioactive cloud,
Saw a girl standing in the corridor of a
train, her arms immobilised by Christ-
mas shopping. The draught was merci-
less, and to hide her embarrassment she
had to invoke the aid of passengers, who
hung to her hem like guy-ropes to a tent
in a storm.
❖ ❖
“Mac Hoots”: I trust that if Sydney
bans motor-homs as Rome and Paris
have done, Premier Cahill won’t com-
pletely adopt the Italian pattern. For
there, when the horns were banned —and,
judging by the blaring and the roaring
and the operatic tootling of the C.I.T.
buses along the country roads, they must
have been terrific —the noise-loving
“Heads we bat —tails you field.”
Italians instantly took the silencers off
the millions of little motor-bikes that
infest the Eternal City and the hulla-
baloo now is unbelievable.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Canberra is to have a
new and highly-exclusive club, the Com-
monwealth Club, with headquarters,
leased from the National University, in
the former residence of the U.K. High
Commissioner at Acton. The two-story
house is beautifully situated, looking
over the racecourse and the golf-links to
the Alps, and 100 foundation-members
have invested £lOO each. First president
is to be General K. M. Cariappa, Indian
High Commissioner, with New Zealand
High Commissioner G. E. L. Alderton as
vice-president, N.S.W. banker Fred May
as treasurer, and former Hansard chief
George Romans as secretary. Members
will include graziers in the A.C.T. and
vicinity, representatives of the Diplo-
matic Corps, and Canberra professional
and business people. Romans stresses that
the title “Commonwealth” has no Gov-
ernment significance, but expresses the
international character of the new club,
and “its concern for the common weal
of the whole of Australia and the Com-
monwealth.” Opening early 1955, it’s
expected by foundation-members to
become the premier club of Australia.
♦> ❖
“L. 8.”; She slithered past me up to
where Butch was standing and curved her
thin blondeness before him like a bow,
all angles and bangles. “00-er,” she
crooned at Butch, “it looks as if I’ve
missed-out on the brains, eh?” “Yeh,”
Butch replied flatly. “Looks like it.”
♦♦♦ *
“Sister Ellell”; At one stage of the
“duration,” when I was in charge of an
orthopaedic ward at a base hospital, the
new night-sister gave over the night-
report, saying in a matter-of-fact voice
that she had weighed all the patients
admitted the previous day. As this was
not the usual procedure for orthopod.
cases I asked why. She replied that the
sister on evening duty had said, “All the
new boys are to be weighed in the morn-
ing.” I checked with the written report,
but not a word substantiated this. Then
light dawned. “You’ll be hopping mad
when I tell you,” I said; “especially when
you have dragged those precision-scales
from a medical ward, but Sister meant
rayed — X-rayed —she can’t sound her
TV!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“E. &O. E.”: A vile example of official
jargon tells me, “We shall diarise the
matter for attention ”
“Jimmy Woodser”; It was just after
the beginning of the Peking summer;
the previous week had been spent in a
seasonal round of parties which had
exhausted even my robust constitution.
Shortly after luncheon, I was appalled
by an intense high-pitched stridulation
which echoed and re-echoed through my
head. For several days I was too con-
cerned to discuss this phenomenon with
anyone, but finally with some trepidation
I said to a colleague: “Please don’t think
there’s anything wrong, but do you hear
a loud buzzing noise?” He replied: “I’m
so glad you mentioned it; it has been
worrying me for some time,” The cricket
season had begun.
sfr
“Pip Tok”: By acquiring a nickname,
“Old Faithful,” the Third Battalion,
Royal Australian Regiment, conforms to
a time-honored custom. Most regular
Army units have nicknames, won on the
field of battle or associated with some
incident in regimental history. The
Sixth Dragoon Guards (Carbineers) once
had a nickname-link with Australia,
through the Tichborne case. The
missing baronet. Sir Roger Tichborne,
had held a commission in this regiment.
Arthur Orton, the man who impersonated
him and claimed the baronetcy, once ran
a butchering business in Wagga (N.S.W.);
so for a few years before the Boer War
the Sixth was nicknamed “The Wagga
Wagga Dragoons.”
“Zake”; I voice a strong protest
against the so-called justice of French
Equatorial Africa, where a tribal chief
has been condemned for killing and
eating his nephew during a hunting
expedition. As a compulsory practitioner
of avuncularism, having over the years
acquired a herd of nephews not one of
whom, I don’t doubt, is less tough than
the one on whom the chief blunted his
teeth, I can have nothing but admira-
tion for the dusky gent.’s enterprise.
Quite apart from the necessity for reduc-
ing the numbers of this species of pesti-
ferous relative, it was obvious that, with
other game unprocurable, he pursued his
clear duty in preserving himself in the
only way possible for the burdens of his
chieftainly office, of which he has now
been so cruelly bereft. The League of
Long-suffering Uncles, of which I have
the honor to be president, salutes him!
* ❖ ❖
“Simon”: Present festive season shows
no falling-off of calendars and almanacs,
mostly carrying advertisements. It is an
old custom. Shakspeare wrote “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” in 1596.
Bottom and fellow-artisans are rehears-
ing “Pyramus and Thisbe,” to be played
in the open, when Snout asks, “Doth
the moon shine that night we play our
play?” Whereupon Bottom calls out,
“A calendar, a calendar. Look in the
almanac ; find out moonshine.” It is a
pity that some of those old calendars
and almanacs were not preserved. It is
fairly certain they would contain ads,
for Blogg’s Blushing Powder, or Lips-
stick That Sticks.
♦♦♦ *£♦
“Uco”: Age is, of course, a relative
thing, but those “very old” houses
“Metralia” noted in one of the oldest
parts of old Parramatta (B. 15/12/’54)
are probably not so ancient as he
imagines. Their names provide the key.
“Demosthenes,” “Euripides” and
“Ceramic” were well-known passenger-
liners 40 or 50 years ago ; I fancy all
three were used as transports in World
War I. The choice of the first two as
house-names could be explained by a love
of the classics, but the use of “Ceramic”
alongside them points to the ships.
Ceramic was at one time the largest
ship (18,500 tons) on the Australian run ;
she continued in service until the 1930’5.
<£♦ •£♦
“Operus”: Mooted opera-house site
on Pinchgut, in Sydney Harbor, is a
romantic extreme remote from conductor
Goossens’s vote for one terminating the
Fort Macquarie tram-terminus, or
crowning the subterranean dry-cleaning
shops of Wynyard station. . A seagoing
soprano late for work might occasion
the novel (if ambiguous) headline “Diva
Drowns in Drink,” but in common
humanity five hours of, say, “Gotter-
dammerung” urges a locale where the
audience can get a snort between acts.
Anyway, Pinchgut is lean digs for sing-
ing heavyweights—most Brtinnhildes
take an O.S. in cuirass and breastplates.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“O’Jay”: American square eggs pack
more easily into cases and containers.
The inside of the egg is transferred into
a cubic, plastic container that can be
sealed and frozen. The egg may be sea-
soned and cooked and even served in its
container. An old-fashioned egg may be
easier to lay than a square, but it is a
darn sight harder to pack away efficiently
♦♦♦ *
“Tidbinbilla”: The name “Moon II”
for the first artificial earth-satellite (B.
1 1 12/’54) may be misleading as to appear-
ances. Circling the earth at a height of a
thousand miles or more, the satellite will
be invisible by day, and on the rare
occasions at night when it is neither in
the earth’s shadow nor below the horizon
it will appear as an inconspicuous
star. Such satellites will be of
immense value for scientific research
and weather-forecasting, but reports
of their direct military value have
been greatly exaggerated (probably to
loosen-up the politicians who hold the
purse-strings of the enterprise). Circling
in fixed orbits, they would be sitting tar-
gets for rocket-propelled missiles of the
kind which automatically home on their
objective. According to press report, the
Russians also expect to have one of these
satellites aloft before long. Should the
U.S. and U.S.S.R. complete “Moon II”
and “Moon III” at about the same time,
as seems possible, perhaps it’s not too
much to hope that in the cause of
science they will agree to regard both
objects as non-military, in which case
borders of space will become safer foi
humanity than solid earth.
CHRISTMAS-CARD
Oh, may this Christmas season be
A record one for you and me.
Not like the records in the shops
Where Christmas music never stops,
No automatic Christmas Day
But a sincere and single-play ;
And let us hope the church-bells will
Obliterate the ringing till.
And may we all receive about
As much in gifts as we lay out.
And may our braces and our ties
Be less a shock than a surprise;
And may the Englishmen be stuck
With all of our supplies of duck,
For then, however dark the murk is,
Our skies will fill with Christmas-
turquoise.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


AT the railway-station the dear old
lady was dragging a heavy suitcase
up the fifty-odd steps to the exit.
Straight from nowhere appeared the New
Australian who, grabbing the suitcase
in one hand and jamming the other hand
under Grandma’s armpit, hustled both
burdens to the top of the steps. The
little lady’s vocabulary could hardly
cope with her emotions. “Young man,”
she said, “why are you so good?”
Whereupon our swarthy hero drew
himself to his full height, bowed slightly
from the waist, and replied with a proud
“We don't know what it does — we're all afraid to pull the trigger."
smile, “Madam, I am good for
nothing.”—“Wigan.”
C* ❖ ❖
“A.J.S.”: He was sent to the G.P.O.
to dispose of some bulk-postage. The
counter-officer said, “Where you from,
son?” “Don’t know,” the boy said.
“Well, who do you work for?” “Dunno,”
the boy said ; “I only started this morn-
ing.” By the time the counter-officer
had digested this sufficiently to inquire
whether the future captain of finance
would like a guide-dog back to his place
of business, the boy had gone.
“Spokeshave”; The dark days of
superstition are now happily past; so
why do I take such a long time selecting
a pen-name when I fill-in a Tatt.’s blank?
The chap in the next-door office is doing
the same thing, and so is everyone else
in the building. There’s a reason for it.
A couple of days after Mo died a £lO,OOO
prize went to the “Strike Me Lucky”
syndicate, and three days after the
Eureka Stockade centenary another
£lO,OOO went to a couple living at Lalor,
a new housing settlement miles from
Melbourne developed by the Peter Lalor
Home Building Co-op.
++♦
“Narumee” ; The P.M.G. has
announced that parcels fastened with
“plastic adhesive tape” are unacceptable
for registration as “sealed articles.” He
says tape can be removed and replaced
without “evidence of tampering.” A
taped parcel will be accepted for registra-
tion only as “an unsealed article.” Last
week 1 endeavored to send a small parcel,
packed in an envelope and reinforced
with tape, to the U.K. by airmail. The
local P.O. informed me that it would
have to go at full airmail-letter rates
(cost 275.), because it was “sealed.” If
I wanted to pay special airmail-parcel rate
I must repack it in brown-paper and tie
it with string. Ergo, what is “an unsealed
article” for purposes of registration is a
“sealed packet” for airmail.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bo”: As a freelance hair-cuttee I
followed my usual practice of entering
the first barber’s-saloon I see, A strange
house, with a stranger customer —perched
on the chair next to mine was a comely
damsel with the shroud tucked under the
most non-stubbly chin ever to grace that
throne, while Snips was giving a few
deft touches to her page-boy bob. The
last well, almost last exclusive
domain of man thus desecrated! If
this, then, is the thin end of the wedge,
weep with me for the poor barber. Not
only will he need all his vast knowledge
of mokes, dogs, cricketers and politics,
plus all the latest in snappy jokes for
his old customers; he’ll have to bolster
this with a store of information on the
latest Hollywood gossip, fashion opinion,
beauty-culture and a brand-new line of
conversational flim-flam if he is to get
through his cutting-time yap with com-
plete confidence. He might find it more
peaceful to test one of his obsolete
Bengals on his jugular.
*l* ❖ ❖
“H.A.L,”: Two accidents you wouldn’t
read about. A truck came along the
street carrying a big packing-case. A car
followed it. A gust of wind blew a sheet
of tar-paper out of the case and slapped
it over the windscreen of the car. His
view ahead blacked-out, the chap in the
car put on his brakes —and was duly
clouted by truck following. . . Driving
my daughter to school, I came to an
intersection. The road to my right was
clear; on the left was a lorry pulling-up
to give me the right-of-way, I drove
across, but the ton-weight bundle of
greasy steel-rods, 25ft. long, which the
truck was carrying along the side, slid
forward and bashed in the side of my new
Holden. Measurements showed that my
car-tracks were 12ft. away from the radi-
ator of the lorry. Had that ton-weight
bundle hit my car seven-inches forward
of where it struck, my daughter might
have gone to the morgue instead of to
school.
❖ ❖ ❖
“E. & O. E.”: Whenever a country
inhabitant celebrates his, or more often
her, 80th, 90th or 100th birthday the
"I tell you it's NOT a floating mine — there's no detonators!"
local press gives a write-up which
usually concludes by saying that the
subject is able to read the newspaper
without glasses. Just how little this means
was impressed upon me on my last trip
to my own eye-doctor. Though I cannot
claim either octo., non., or centenarian
status, I have worn glasses for over 30
years, yet when handed a folder contain-
ing pars in different sizes of print—which
always begin, uncomfortably, in the
middle of a sentence —with the request
to read number 6, I said I could read
number 1, and did so, though this print
was far smaller than that of any news-
paper. Mysterious things, our eyes,
+;♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: As garage spare-boy in
the old canvas-hood, wooden-wheel auto,
period, my duties included the running
of a still to manufacture aqua pura for
topping-up car batteries. As a publicity
gesture, the still was operated in the
open, and the distilled water retailed at
2s. a bottle. Production-figures were not
high, but we were on a friendly basis
with the local water-authority: for every
bottle the still made, we filled another
at the bore-water tap. Can’t remember
any complaints; maybe that artesian
bore-water benefited the batteries.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: Connoisseurs of traffic-
tangles should try driving through streets
fringed by Sydney’s fruit- and vegetable-
markets, at about 8 am. Trucks of every
type and tare stand aft-on to scores of
doorways on both sides of the streets,
making footpaths impassable and turning
roads into lanes. Down what is left of
the roads hundreds of vehicles wind and
weave and blare their horns at other
vehicles pulling-out or backing-in, while
leather-aproned men push barrows, hand-
trucks and enormous billycarts through
the medley. In the thick of this confusion
appeared two workmen, carrying, be-
tween them, on their right shoulders,
a ladder 20ft. long. They snaked their
way into the line of traffic and marched
towards the corner. At the intersection
stood a traffic-cop; he stared unbeliev-
ingly. The chap in the lead gave a perfect
right-hand-turn signal. Slowly a grin
rose on the cop’s harassed face. He held
the traffic while the strange vehicle
negotiated the turn and went its way.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Harden”: How stiff can you be? Our
hamlet was shocked when it learned that
a good-looking trainee in nursing (she
was only 21, too) had ratted some cheque-
forms from an elderly patient’s cheque-
book in the stilly hours, and traced his
signature. She put it across one of the
two big stores, and several lesser-lights,
to a tune well into three figures, counting
the goods and the change she’d collected.
Her Waterloo came when she visited the
last mug on the list—the second big
store. The storekeeper had been in
partnership with the owner of the
cheques—and, after 30 years of quizzing
his signature, knew every loop and
curlicue. If that girl had only been a bit
longer in the town she’d have tapped the
local grapevine, and known whom to
avoid. Our wench got off on a bond.
* ❖
“T. McNark”: Well, well, the wonders
of science will never cease nor the inde-
fatigable scientist be stopped from find-
ing things out. A bunch of them in
America have hit the headlines with a
“new theory” that between the ages of
60 and 70 certain “processes of the body”
go into reverse and the body starts grow-
ing younger “in certain ways.” This is
based on a survey of “more than 1000
people between 80 and 100 years old.”
We used to call it second-childhood. But
Americans take so long; to grow out of
their first that until now they may not
have noticed the second.
ADVANTAGE VERBIAGE
“The weak man, if he is a good talker, is
more likely to hold a woman’s interest than
the strong silent type, who has lost popularity.
After all, marriage to a man of few words
could be most exasperating.” — Women’s
magazine.
The screen-hero, muscled but dumb
{His loves being loath to proclaim).
Once had ’em all sighing
When he was applying
Gorilla-like grips to his dame,
Despite that he seemed rather glum,
With his throttle unwilling to work —
But fans of that hero
Are now down to zero,
In fact, he is rated a “jerk.”
In real life, you’ll most often find.
It’s the one with a good line of yap,
Who can formulate phrases
And spin silken praises
Who’s ever the popular chap.
This truth he has clearly divined
{By Adam ’twas known, you can bet):
A woman, in essence.
Detests obmutescence;
To her way of life it’s a threat!
You might have a 30-inch chest
That sprouts but a few feeble hairs;
Teeth that look like a rabbit’s,
A dial tough as Gabbett’s
And legs like an Austrian chair’s.
You may in queer clobber be dressed,
And walk like a hamstrung giraffe —
But so long as you chatter
And patter and natter
You’ll win by a street-and-a-half.
A big bank-account could impress;
A limousine, too, not a doubt:
But both may be flayed by
Some chin-music, played by
An artist who really can spout.
But why this astounding success,
You may ask ? Well, it seems rather
plain:
Though the girls can recite
By themselves, day and night,
They like men to speak the refrain.
N.s.w.
S. W. K.
PANTO
THE arrival of the panto-season
(such as it is, these Cinemascopic
days) prompts a question to old-timers:
Do you remember the 1896 pantomime
“Matza —Queen of Fire,” with May
Pollard in the title-role?
I don’t. I wasn’t here. But if you
do remember “Matza” you will remember
the Firm’s premiere danseuse of the
’nineties, Lucy Cobb. She is still with
us, just about the last of Australia’s
original “Ta-ra-ra Boom-de-ay” girls.
She and I pored over a cuttings-book
with its yellowed press-notices. Bits of
The Bulletin were a most valued part
of the collection, because, to quote Lucy
Cobb, “If you were praised by The
Bulletin critic you thought you were
made.”
It was in the same “Matza” that The
Bulletin among other papers, appeared
on stage in “Press Review,” one of the
numbers that brought the house down.
Beautiful girls parading between the
covers of the various dailies and
weeklies each sang an appropriate verse.
The full chorus went something like
this:
We come out at different times
At morning and at night.
Tiie latest exciting news and crimes
We bring to light.
For a penny, sir , . . For a penny, sir,
Qur dreadful yarns they are many, sir,
For a penny, sir . . . For a penny, sir,
As for fibs, we don’t publish any, sir.
In a voice still firm and clear Lucy
Cobb sang me The Bulletin verse:
When critics let their shotlets fly
Their daily bread to win;
Or roast some Parliamentary guy,
We get our Bullet-in.
Shocking “corn” by modern standards,
but sentiments that brought “bravos”
from the stalls and whistles from the
gods nearly 60 years ago.
In “Matza” 12-year-old Carrie Moore
made her debut in a duet with the late
Ivy Scott, “I don’t want to play in your
yard.” J.C.W, himself committed small,
brown-eyed Carrie to Lucy’s care during
the panto.-season, and they have been
firm friends ever since.
Lucy Cobb has a soft spot for The
Bulletin, because in that same year,
when, without warning, she had to sub-
stitute for the sick Mrs. I. C. Williamson
in “La Cigale,” The Bulletin critic
described Miss Lucy Cobb’s Spanish
dance “equal to the best in the world.”
CAG.


The fastest, smoothest airliner in
TAA
pressurised, propeller-turbine
RESERVATIONS: TAA Booking Offices all States or your nearest Travel Agent.
NPV 18
i A*u£a<oj(U&
Audi***
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Bulletin records with pleasure
the golden-wedding anniversary of Mr.
and Mrs. Hans Heysen. Back in 1903
Selma Bartels, daughter of a one-time
Lord Mayor of Adelaide, became
Heysen’s first art-pupil; he had just
returned from four-years’ study in
Europe. The following year the Adelaide
Gallery bought its first Heysen, “Mystic
Morn,” for 150 guineas, with which the
artist took his art-pupil on their honey-
moon. They live at Hahndorf, in the
Adelaide hills, surrounded by gumtrees
—most of which have been put on canvas
with typical Heysen strength and fidelity.
• •
“Macnell” on a grand old gunner:
It is doubtful if there is any officer or man
more widely-known and liked in the R.A.N.
than Harold Hardiman, captured here in typical
geniality by Woolcott. In the Navy for more
than 40 years, Harold was commissioned a
gunner from the lower-deck —in itself something
of an effort, especially in the days when he
did it—and went on to become one of the
very few ex-rankers to get his lieutenant-com-
mander’s stripes. Not tall, but wiry; cap
always at the Beatty angle; swinging along on
gunner’s strides with a black silver-topped cane,
Hardiman has been a welcome addition to the
company of every ship he’s served in. He was
SAILOR
under doughty Commodore Tyrwhitt in the
Grand Fleet in War 1, has been in most big
ships in the Australian Navy, was in cruiser
Canberra when she got hers at Savo Island,
and in the Shropshire through her lively fighting
in the Pacific. Guns have always been his love
—he’s one of the best rifle-shots the Navy ever
had, shot his first Service-match at Danzig,
way back, and his last the other day, captaining
the Navy 20 which took off the U.S.I. Cup
from the combined Services, the first time for
close on 20 years. Harold had a record score
of 101 out of a possible 105—and he’s over
50. His effort prompted a signal from the
Flag Officer Commanding the Australian
Fleet;—
Congratulations to the team on the clear
win in the U.S.I, Cup. It was also good
to see Lt.-Cdr. Hardiman’s great effort.
He has done so much for naval rifle-shoot-
ing over the years, and I am sure that all
are delighted that on the eve of his departure
from the Service he not only led our team
to victory but personally topped the board.
Which, as indicated, means that Harold is
carrying his oar (or gun) inland.
• •
“Uramao”: New Zealand Scotties
have installed as their new Moderator
Rt. Rev. D. N. Mac Diarmid, of
Auckland. Hailing originally from
Dubbo (N.S.W.), he crossed the Tasman
early with his banker father, and later
tried seafaring. Settled for a time in
Otago University, he took an arts course,
then went off to the Sudan to have a
hand in opening the United Mission in
Anglo-Egyptian territory, establishing a
press for mission publications and
founding a school for boys. His wife
became the second woman to take a Lilt.
D. from the New Zealand University;
it was for putting parts of the Scripture
and several school-books into the
previously unwritten Nuba tongue in
Africa. The new Moderator has of late
been ministering in Suva.
Don Chipp, selected by Melbourne’s
City Fathers to organise their side of the
1956 Olympic frenzy, is a well-set-up
accountant who registrars for the Aus-
tralian Society of Accountants and in his
spare time organises the periodical festivi-
ties of the Wine and Food Society.
His organising ability was shown when
he collected £22,000 for the Chair of
Accountancy at the University of Mel-
bourne in memory of the late Professor
Gordon Wood. His new job will entail
finding accommodation for the thousands
of visitors expected when the Games get
going, co-ordinating entertainments and
decorating the city. Chipp is an athlete
in his own right, having played football
with Fitzroy and Carlton and been final-
ist, in 1953, in the Bendigo Thousand,
the richest footrace in the world. His
private ambition to break 100 at golf is
being temporarily frustrated by the
establishment of a garden in his new
home.
• •
Professors are getting younger at Mel-
bourne University—or, anyway, the uni-
versity’s getting them younger. Profes-
sor Zelman Cowen was made Dean of
the Faculty of Law at 31 ; Professor of
Jurisprudence, David Derham, is 34.
Donald Cochrane, who follows Sir
Douglas Copland as Sydney Myer Pro-
fessor of Economics, is 37; Associate
Professor of Criminology, Dr. Norval
Morris, is 31. Cochrane was an R.A.A.F.
navigator in War 11, and later economist
with U.N.O. in New York.
• •
“In the ACT”; Prime Ministers,
Governors-General and other V.I.P.s, as
well as lesser mortals, will regret the
departure from the A.B.C. studios in
Canberra of Arthur Joseph Winter,
in charge there since 1947. An
excellent broadcaster himself, Winter
has the knack of putting the most mike-
shy persons at ease, giving hints on de-
livery and the like. Various Canberra
organisations, including Rotary, will also
greatly miss him. He joined the A.B.C.
in Adelaide in 1940, and a few years later
made the first actuality broadcast from
a submarine in Australian waters —from
H.M.S. Vox (appropriately enough) on
her way from Adelaide to Victor Harbor.
Winter became a member of the Par-
liamentary announcing staff in Canberra
in 1946, thus being one of the first, and
best, of the Parliamentary commentators.
Reason for leaving Canberra is the satis-
factory one of promotion. He is to be-
come, at the beginning of the New Year,
the A.B.C.’s assistant branch-manager in
Queensland, with h.-q. in Brisbane.
• •
Invested as R.C. Archbishop of Wel-
lington and Metropolitan of New Zea-
land, Peter T, B. McKeefry (51, 6ft. and
with a back like a Guardsman), was
appointed coadjutor to the late Arch-
bishop O’Shea in 1947, with right of
succession. The new Archbish. edited
the Church organ, “The Month,” and
showed a flair for trenchant and humor-
ous writing. Comes of a fighting family
—four of his brothers in the Kaiser’s
war, one of them killed. One of his fel-
low-students in Rome was Sydney’s Car-
dinal Gilroy.
• •
Temperance and General, whose
stately buildings are noted features of
Australasian capital cities and of a good
many large provincial centres as well, had
some 39,000 policies and total assets of
£257,000 on its books when James Tuson
Thompson joined the society as an agent
with the N.S.W. branch in 1899. In the
37 years from his appointment as its
chief executive annual income rose to
over £17,000,000, assets increased to
£97,000,000 and assurances in force grew
to over £300,000,000 —all largely due to
his drive and enthusiasm and ability to
inspire loyalty in the thousands who
worked under him. Now passed on at
75, Thompson was born at Ararat
(Vic.). Among his other public services,
he was a member of the War Loan
Council in World War I. Succeeding
him as managing-director, Stanley
Webster Coates, educated at Scotch
College, Melbourne, joined T. & G. in
1906 as a junior.
• •
“Spokeshave”; In the Christmas season
scores of Melbourne University under-
graduates, to pay their fees, get jobs
selling scents and ribbons and such over
bargain-counters. They were made of
sterner stuff in the last generation. Three
of our most eminent medicos, whose
parents couldn’t afford the fees, worked
all the year round while they studied.
One was a letter-sorter, another worked
in a stone-quarry, the third raised
chickens. The chicken-farmer, colonel
in World War 11, while doing his medical
courses paid for his own and his four
brothers’ education with his chooks. He
built his own hen-houses of mud and
second-hand palings, and won many prizes
not only at the ’Varsity but also at chook-
shows. After his discharge from the
Army he decided against resuming his
lucrative Collins-street practice, and de-
voted himself to research. This was John
Hayden. The letter-sorter was Albert
Coates, senior-surgeon to the A.I.F. in
Malaya, and later of Changi and Bang-
kok prison-camps legend ; the quarryman,
Donald Thomson, now Doctor of Science,
biologist, and one of the best-known
anthropologists in Australia.
• •
The vacancy at Otago University
(N.Z.), through Professor J. A. Passmore’s
shifting to Canberra National University,
will be filled by Sydneysider John Leslie
Mackie, senior lecturer in moral and
political philosophy at Sydney University.
In Dunedin he will occupy the Chair of
Philosophy. He left Sydney University
for a tilt at the Nazi philosophy, by way
of a lieutenancy in the British Army,
wherewith he was in the Middle East and
Italy, radio-maintenance officer.
• •
Having wandered round a bit in the
past 13 years (11 of them spent overseas),
Lieutenant-Colonel Ralph Connor (here-
with by Such) settles at Yarralumla,
Comptroller of the Household of the
Governor-General. With a New Guinea
trading-firm when the stoush started.
Private Connor left Rabaul with the first
N.G. contingent, and left Sydney on
liner Queen Mary’s first trip as a trooper
—attached to Red Robbie’s 19th Brigade
Headquarters. Diversion of the convoy
from the Middle East to England put
Connor on a Cape-to-Cairo train. From
Cairo —Greece, Crete, Syria, Darwin (by
then platoon-commander) and Towns-
ville: then, after a stint at h.-q. in Mel-
SOLDIER
bourne, sailing again, this time to ’Frisco,
back in the Mary to the Clyde (receiving
Australian p.-0.-w. from Germany), over
to Germany (two years on the Control
Commission), and a chance to compare
two occupations with a posting to
8.C.0.F. in Japan. Now 40, he leaves
for his new address from Victoria Bar-
racks, Brisbane.
Herewith, H. H. (Bert) Percy, who
became chairman of both N.S.W. War
Service Land Settlement Boards in 1949
and has since then guided the ballots for
fertile country (one board deals with
irrigation-blocks, the other dry-farming
land). Percy’s first soldier-settlement
ballot was for 16 mixed-farms near
Inverell (N.S.W.) five years back;
to date he has presided at land-
SETTLER
ballots in which blocks worth more
than £5 million have been won by War II
Diggers. The balloter knows a bit about
both land and Diggering. With the Lands
department for 47 years, he has been
clerk, on the survey-drafting staff, and
in charge of Land Board offices at Forbes,
Dubbo and Grafton. On the Digger side,
he owns M.C., won at Messines, was a
company-commander with the 34th Bat-
talion, and copped a nasty one at Sailly-
le-Sac in the closing stages of the war.
Stocky, with his travels in his face
(150,000 miles throughout N.S.W. in the
past six years), Percy has just retired.
• •
Kerrison Preston, a 70-year-old mem-
ber of the Blake Trust, is making his first
visit to Australia to study the now-famous
collection of William Blake drawings at
the National Gallery in Melbourne. He
considers that the Felton Bequest has put
the Melbourne National Gallery on a
level with the leading galleries of Europe
and the U.S. The Felton trustees bought
the Blake drawings—4l of them —in 1918
for £4lOO. They are now valued at more
than £50,000.
• •
Had his 80th birthday, Otway Falkiner,
most picturesque of Australian sheep-
men. Wide hat, sturdy frame, the vigor
and the zest for life which never deserts
him make him a personality to brighten
any company. He shares with other mem-
bers of the Falkiner family-partnership a
sound capacity for fine sheep-breeding.
No need to tell any sheepbreeder the
world over that his address is Boonoke
North, N.S.W.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, Robert Leslie Wishart, manufac-
turer’s agent interested mainly in Laconia
blankets and Osman sheeting. He was a good
supporter of St. Augustine’s Church, Brisbane.
In Napier (N.Z.), at 90, Gerhard Husheer,
whose first associations with the Dominion
were as a representative of a German tobacco
firm. After a period managing a Rotterdam
tobacco concern, and pioneering the industry
in South Africa, he sailed for N.Z. to do
similar work there. He succeeded after some
trials in growing the weed and established the
National Tobacco Co. in Napier. The com-
pany’s premises now cover more than four
acres.
At Cuckfield (Eng.), H. J. Timperley, former
Perth journalist and specialist in East Asian
affairs. Leaving Perth in the 1920’s to try his
luck in England, he joined the “Manchester
Guardian,” represented it in China from 1928
to 1939, then became adviser to the Chinese
Ministry of Information. After War II he
worked for several U.N. organisations till
appointed, in 1950, technical adviser to the
Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A
tropical illness sent him back to England m
1951.


BUTTONHOLED


ABORIGINALITIES
‘“yOU going home for Christmas?” I
asked. “Aw, I dunno,” Mat replied.
“I been home the last four or five Christ-
mases. Gets a bit monotonous, y’ know.
The Old Man’ll have bottled beer in the
woodshed and Mum’ll have a duck an’ a
big pudden an’ me two brothers’ll be
there with their wives and kids. Aw, I
dunno.” He got up and stood looking far
into the south. “Well,” I said, “that’s
pretty much what’ll happen everywhere.
You either go home or you spend it at
some pub an’ get drunk f’r a couple of
days.” That was all. Mat went home.
A fortnight later we met in Mildura.
“How’d it go?” I asked. “Quite a change,
quite a change,” he breezed. “Mum had
a chook instead of a duck,” —“Mat’s
Mate.”
* * * ♦
“Boyup”: A Perth (W.A.) message
states that, until it was killed, a big Too
troubled “motorists travelling between
Mullalyup and Nannup on the Cundinup-
road, about eight miles from Balingup.”
It’s a wonder more Westralians don’t
emigrate to the Darling Downs.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Some years ago a Dune-
din (N.Z.) organist was holidaying in the
lake district, where birds abound. One
day his daughter was singing a French
chanson. A few days later the tuis in
the vicinity were repeating the song. The
organist said they had the entire phrase in
perfect time and tune, with the exception
“And, if I may say so. Madam, the paintwork is as good as your own."
of the last note, which they never got.
Before the railway went through the
Otira Gorge, connecting the South
Island’s east and west coasts, coaches
carried passengers over the range. There
was an Irish coachdriver who whistled
“Killarney” most of the time. One day
a breakdown held up the coach and the
waiting passengers heard a collection of
tuis whistling “Killarney.”
“Flight”: When the ibis does get in
good work on grasshoppers is when it's
had the edge taken from its appetite and
is looking for tasty snacks. The hen-
’hopper screws her tail an inch or so in
loose earth and deposits there her sac of
eggs. Each sac may hold from 3000 to
5000 eggs. All those eggs will develop
into ’hoppers unless friend ibis stalks
along, head canted to one side and eye
adapted to selecting ’hopper-hatcheries.
One probe with the bill, a lift of the head,
a gulp of the throat, and anything up to
5000 baby-’hoppers will never taste grass.
* * * *
“Icinit”: The train paused on a high
embankment on the outskirts of the
town. In the distance were the bowling-
greens in full Saturday activity. The
white figures grouped themselves, separ-
ated, paced leisurely, made obeisance on
bended knee, stooped, or clustered. The
old lady sniffed. “Like a lot of White
Leghorns in a paddock,” she summed-up.
* * * •
“A.J.S.”: To get away from duplication
of old English village names, the Westra-
lian Housing Commission has gone all
aboriginal. A new 10,000-homes project
six to eight miles north of Perth and east
of the Wanneroo-road is to consist of
four suburbs. The major one will be
Mirrabooka (abo. for a group of stars in
the Southern Cross), and the three minor
ones are to be Calga (blackboy-tree),
Yarragan (high place), and Nollamarra
(kangaroo-paw).
* * « *
“Price-fixer”: At this time of year,
when it is stinking hot in inland Queens-
land towns, beer usually becomes short.
The pubs then come on to quotas, and
the jolly old sessions return. That is,
when there’s no lager. When there is it
sells by the bottle over the counter ; many
different brands. It costs Is. or so a
bottle more than at the local stores, and
you don’t have to go far from the coast
to pay at the pro-rata rate of 2s. 6d, per
lOoz. glass. This makes drinking expen-
sive, but customers either have too much
money or not enough interest. Some
years ago, a prices-officer appeared in a
country town. Bung’s prices crashed
down to correct level; his loyal clients
co-operated; not one put him in. The
P.O. left, and Bung’s prices went back to
their unlawful peak. The set-up’s got me
beat!
* * * *
“R.Q.”: Galvanised-iron ant-caps on
piers and foundation-walls will not frus-
trate white-ants (B. l/12/’54). My humpy
is propped up on. 4 x 4 red-gum posts
treated with creosote and capped in the
approved fashion. Caps dip downwards,
so that if the ants try any silly business
they will slip off and break their necks.
Evidently their engineer-officer took com-
mand and they built a mud-tunnel up
the stump, continuing it along, under and
over the ant-cap. When I found them
they were half-way up the wash-house
door-jamb. Red-gum is supposed to be
immune to white-ants, but you don’t
want any gum veins in it so they can
get a toe-hold, Gammexane blown in
their eyes is a stopper, and if you find
a nest near the house open it up and
steer a couple of black meat-ant scouts
over to it.
* ♦ * *
“Not Least”: It was a hot, dry and
windy day. I accidentally dropped a half-
smoked cigarette into dry leaves and
grass exposed to the wind. Bushfire-
conscious, having lived on the Southern
Highlands for years, I automatically
moved to stamp it out, but watched it
instead. It burnt a hole in a gum-leaf
and, wind-blown, further burnt grass-
“The children want to know if you're going to he Santa Claus
again this year?”
stems in halves. No blaze, so I got down
and blew it vigorously. Added fine
stringybark, but no, it just burned down
to the cork-tip. Maybe this proves noth-
ing, but I think of it when cigarette-butts
are blamed for fires.
* * * *
“Palaver”: For many years the next pub
from Dubbo (N.S.W.) was the Shingle Hut,
160 miles north-west at the junction of
the Marthaguy and the Merri Merri.
Originally it was a boundary-rider’s hut
on Dargin’s run, then known as Wom-
erawa. It was the first shingle-roofed
building in that country of bark-roofs,
and when Dargin sold to McQuade a
German named Eckert bought the hut and
turned it into a pub. He always joined
in the drinks and bought his round in
turn, and about the only English he knew
was “Good-luck!” In time many forgot
or never heard his real name; he was
simply known as “Old Goodluck.” Since
the nearest trooper was at Dubbo,
licensing law’s never troubled him, hence
the toast of the Marthaguy country was
“Hurrah for the Shingle Hut, where the
bar is never shut!”. . , You know, there’s
more than hot air in the notion that some
things ain’t what they used to be.
♦ * * *
“Varius”: A goanna isn’t the only thing
that drinks by absorption through its
skin. I watched a carney-lizard, about a
foot long, submerged in a bore-drain. I
was at that spot for nearly two hours
and didn’t see Carney move once. Then
I prodded him with a stick. He left in
a shower of bore-water, spatters of dust
and a string of lizard-oaths.
* * * *
“H. 8.8.”: Can’t agree with “A.C.’s”
theory that the melting of polar ice would
result in a lowering of the overall sea-
level (B. 10 /11 / ’54), because Archimedes
said that the weight of all floating bodies
is exactly equal to the weight of liquid
they are displacing, and Arch, knew a
thing or two. Still, it’s not a matter
which need concern us greatly. We
don’t expect a huge melt in the foresee-
able future, but rather an expanding
polar ice-cap, likely to reach the southern
portion of Australia in about 25 million
years. When the earth becomes warmer
(as it is doing now) another ice-age is
encouraged; the warmer sun evaporates
more water from the sea, cloud and fog
increase, insulating the earth and causing
a more temperate climate without great
extremes of temperature as between
summer and winter. Thus the summer
warmth, which each year melts the ice
at the Poles, is lessened by cloudy condi-
tions, much ice remains unmelted from
each winter’s ice-crop, and the polar-ice
area thus expands. Residents of Vic-
toria’s Geelong and Bacchus Marsh still
look on the evidence left when their
districts were formerly under the ice-
cap, and perhaps in 25 million years they
won’t need refrigerators. Sydneysiders
needn’t worry, however. In winter they
should be able to fish by merely digging
a hole in the ice, which should melt for
long enough in summer to allow a short
surfing season for the Bondi “iceberg”
types. It should help the bottled-beer
situation, since they’ll probably be able
to buy the stuff in blocks and hence
won’t have to bribe the garbagemen to
take the empties away.
* * * *
“Bass”: There’s a wide variety of salts
in Westralian underground streams —
related to Epsom, Glauber and others—
and no one has yet found a way of
telling what you’re likely to strike.
Sometimes you’ll sink quite close to a
freshwater-well and strike water that
sheep won’t drink. Sometimes a salt-
affected supply improves slowly until it’s
potable ; sometimes it’s the other way
about. On the coast you can sink a few
feet right on the beach and be fairly
certain of good water. There are good
springs that are under water at high
tide. One at Beagle Bay, north of
Broome, was a favorite watering-place
for pearlers, and it had about 15ft. of
ocean over it when the tide came in.
RIDE TO ROSEBROOK
Buoyant on my pedal-boat
I’d gladly be a flying Dutchman,
Float through the pastoral afternoon
On the velvet swell of fields, the sea
Of purring air, leaf-spray, three magpies’
Bubbling fountain;
But the spinning wheel replies:
To Rosebrook, to Rosebrook
Where the man has married the mountain.
The brown road scrawls content upon
A page of green and, frowningly
Intent upon a darker gold,
The clouds repaint the dappled scene;
Now down to a purgatory of marsh
Old Ironside steers
Where farmers’ souls with harsh
Grebe voice (as though dark water spoke)
Atone for eroded years.
But soaring in egret ballet, white
Against the ironbark backdrop, one
Alights with a flirt of slender legs
At tree-top, a shining question-mark.
Through the plum-cake cutting we climb a rise
And slowly scan
Red-gum trochees, hear cunrawong lies
That the next green tunnel leads to Eden
Instead of the mountain-marrying man.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.
PRESS DAY
WHEN a country press breaks down
an hour before the centre-page is
set-up, the editor rushes about: “Come
on, Charlie, get the bloody thing going
before I go crazy,” and Charlie, under
the works of the big old rotary, says,
“0.K., O.K. Keep your shirt on ; how
was I-to know she would jack-up tonight?
After all, she hasn’t broken down for 23
years.”
Newsboys stand round: “When are
the papers coming, Mister?” So do the
staff. I have visions of schooners in the
pub ; Ivor is due to play a tennis-match ;
everyone has something on.
By the time the first edition is due in
the shops, the rain sets in.
“It’s no good,” says Charlie ; “you'll
have to fold the bloody things by hand.”
Well, Ivor can’t play tennis in the rain ;
but what about my schooners?
“Any papers yet, Mister?” says a news-
boy.
“Sure, sure; we’ll have the papers,
son,” says the compositor. “They’ve
been coming off this machine since I was
half your size, and, believe me, they’re
not stopping now.”
We all agree in chorus and begin fold-
ing papers. Everyone who has something
in the paper begins reading it as he folds
it into line —Jimmy, who sets it up, the
compositor, the foreman and even the
editor; even I, who put in most of the
local news —print is as irresistible as sin.
“Come on, you can read them to-
morrow!” roars the boss.
As we go on folding, folding, I try to
forget that people will be burning and
tearing up these copies before the last
editions are sold.
R. A. W.


f CAST up one cold winter day at
1 Rocklands station, near Camooweal
(W.Q.), in time for lunch. As the young
gin was laying the table she slammed a
big gauze meat-cover over every dish as
she set it down. I was surprised, for there
wasn’t a fly around. Later I understood.
Gus Glissan, the manager, had 91 cats
on the pay-roll, and it was one of the
Sights of Bananaland’s outback to see
him in the evening, in what he was
pleased to call his garden, feeding his
battalion of fummies.—“Felix.”
* * * *
“Alma”; “Sam the Saddler” (B.
1/12/’54) needn’t worry about the Queen
reviving the fashion for side-saddle. At
English shows some classes are for
“lady’s hack, ridden side-saddle,” and the
ladies gracefully comply. But a few
minutes after the event most of them have
changed from flowing-skirts and veiled
“Y air, awkward to cart around, but Joe reckons it’s worth it.”
top-hats and are riding astride. Her
Majesty rides side-saddle only on cere-
momal occasions, preferring to ride
astride for pleasure.
wv » ’ ti. J i * tr* * j
O.W.K. : The hack the Queen rode
at Warburton (Vic.) came off a Wim-
mera farm, and was ridden astride by a
lady-rider at agricultural shows. The
one ridden by Lady Mountbatten was
owned by the same lady and was also a
prize-winner at shows, m the 14-hands
section. Both have since changed hands,
The Queen’s mount was bought by a
Wangaratta lady and the other is now
in the Naracoorte district (S.A.), where
he is ridden to hounds and exhibited at
shows as a hunter.
• * * ♦
“Old-timer”; The gulf between city
and country grows wider and wider. In
the bush a goanna climbs a tree or a
frill-neck sits on a post near the local
post-office, and except for a few kids
bunging stones at the thing, nobody takes
any notice. The other day a goanna
climbed a light-pole in Dee Why, an outer
Sydney suburb, and it became a subject
for press pictures, a featured “story” and
“hundreds of people came to see it at
the weekend.” A museum expert was
consulted and announced that “goannas
stay up trees and poles for long periods,”
Me! I’m just waiting for the day when a
wombat so far forgets itself as to walk
down Pitt-street, Then there’ll be the
biggest traffic-jam in Sydney’s history.
♦ * * *
“Kelms”: The kangaroo-dog most
favored in W.A. some years back was a
part-greyhound, part-staghound cross—
a dog that was fast and powerful,
with great stamina and courage. I’ve
never seen another tyke—airedale,
bulldog, terrier or bitza —that could
last a round with a good ’roo-
dog, and the only time I’ve ever feared a
dog was once when a mate and I went
into a natives’ camp near Mukinbudin to
look for some missing gear. I was push-
ing through the usual pack of snarling
mongs when two jaws closed gently on
my ankle. I had the sense to stand still
while my mate, who had a gun, told the
natives what would happen if they didn’t
call the dogs off. The one that had me
pinned obeyed the order and I had a
good look at him. Making all necessary
allowances I still think he was as big as a
small pony and I’ll swear his jaws were
nearly a foot long. He was at least 90
per cent, ’roo-dog, and my foot still tingles
when I think of what would have hap-
pened if he’d closed those jaws.
* * * ♦
“Horseshoe Bar”; Why shouldn’t a
pup’s mother have a strong maternal
instinct (B. 1/12/’54) and favor the pup
which is weakest and most dependent on
her? The surest way to get a good pup
is to have both parents from a good work-
ing strain, though that isn’t a dead-cert.
I’ve seen a pup whose parents could work
a blowfly into a bottle grow up to be
good for nothing but the rabbit-pack.
* * * *
“Emel”: On a December morning the
curlew was missing from the nest on
which she had sat for over three weeks,
unshaded through long, hot, morning
hours, unsheltered in rain or hail, to raise
a second brood. She had lost the one
chick hatched in September. Seeing her
and her mate beside a fence I approached
Th e hen ran away> the cock came at me
hissing with lowered head. The hen then
turaed to back him U P- As 1 had glimpsed
two small, dark-striped bodies flat to
earth in the shade of a strainer-post I
retired. Later that sultry afternoon they
moved only as the post-shade moved. By
morning they were gone. Some moonlit
night ahead, when the bush is cloaked in
mystery, I shall hear a curlew's far call
and think it is meant for me.
“Slip”; My father and I were working
for a cocky who had a horse called The
Snake. He’d bought him for a quid off
a travelling show. My short-tempered
parent claimed he could ride anything,
so the cocky let him have a go at The
Snake. The prad looked so sleepy I’d
have bet it couldn’t throw a baby, and
Dad looked pretty smug as he climbed
on and settled-down. The Snake waited
till he’d made himself comfortable, then
exploded. I’ve never seen a horse
"Doc. will be operating—we’d better sterilise the anaesthetist’s nulla-nulla.”
perform like that one did. The Old Man
stuck until, at the top of a high
twisting buck, he let go, sailed
through the air and landed in
the irrigation-channel. As Dad crawled
up the bank, looking like a big wet dog,
the cocky roared with laughter as he
told us The Snake was a buckjumper, and
was useless for anything else. An hour
or so later we were on the track again,
and the cocky was up at the homestead
looking for iodine.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Jubilee”: A tally of 2757 sheep and
lambs in nine hours by a nine-man gang
at Lagoon Hills station, Martinborough,
looks like a shearing record for N.Z.
Previous best was by an eight-man gang
—2400 sheep and lambs. Has the new
score been beaten in Australia? The
N.Z. sheep were crossbreds, not Merinos.
?:= * * *
“Macquarie”: The Jersey bull in the
paddock behind our building - site
registered emphatic disapproval in
rumbling roarings as we prepared to
get to work, and I wasn’t the only bloke
who took a careful look at the barbed-
wire fence. But when old Dave presumed
to set up his bench near the fence
Ferdinand really did get annoyed. With
head down and wicked eyes glaring he
roared insults at Dave ; and Dave, after
roaring back at him, snatched up a chip
of wood and flung it. A full brick
couldn’t have hurt that thick skull, but
the bovine bully shook his head and
backed away one pace, “He’s all bluff,”
declared Dave; “you watch.” He threw
another chip. The bull backed off. Dave
grabbed a length of batten. “Gawn, get
to blazes down the other end of the
paddock,” he commanded, brandishing
the weapon and about to slip through the
fence. Slowly the bull retreated as he
advanced. “See?” skited Dave, looking
back at us. Our united yell reached
him in the same breath. Dave keeps
on his side of the fence now. Portions
of his overalls still hang on the barbs,
* * * *
, , , „ „ . ,
Gravelsnatcher ; Station half a
dozen men at different spots within sound
of a bird-chorus, tell them to translate
the song into words and give some idea
of the rhythm of the song, and you’ll
get at least six different versions. Or
take a quick run around Australia
listening carefully to the same bird
species in different localities: you’ll get
a surprising variety of songs and carols
from the same birds, because birds
somehow suit their songs to their
environment. And not only birds.
Ever approached a low-lying or swampy
area in a strange locality on horseback
after dark? In the eerie unfriendliness-
the experience always chills me—l can
hear the frogs croaking “Go round, go
round, go roundabout, mate!” as I
approach. After following their advice,
as I draw away from the gloomy place
I hear them call after me “You’re right,
mate, you’re right, get on with the job.”
PUP AND OCTOPUS
The yellow spaniel pup meets the baby octopus
Where the tide leaves bare
The bottom of the bay.
Tentative paw taps tentacle and the affray
Becomes primeval.
Aware red eyes watching a new foe
From some world unimagined in the depths
below
Aren’t prepared
For lightning thrust and woof!
Who’s the more scared? Or more ensnared in
fear?
Now here upturned the octopus displays
Mooncratered feelers like the rays
Of some pink planet yet unconjured.
Inert, uninjured.
Wary,
Scary.
While on the clean hard sand a hundred years
of breeding mutters
And is heard. This, young cocker, is no fallen
bird.
Here nothing flutters,
’less it be a tiny heart belonging to the sea.
Both feel the urgency to seek something different
To the taught technique.
Now octopus is up
Racing from the startled pup in aweful octopedal
gallop towards
A pool, jet-squirting at the insubstantial air.
Here no rewards but life
If you’re quick and know a trick.
In brand-new strife
He goes. A minute Martian monster on a
grove of legs
Ink-spewing now the very dregs
Of horror.
But movement and escape are known and never
yet has winged bird flown
From this dog dynasty.
Y outh-hasty,
Sandspurting scurry, flop of ears and paw
Pinning what no dog ever saw.
The touch
Of nightmare slime drains valor but
Scooped high in air a cricket-ball of mud. A
thud.
New growth of tentacles and, plop!
In vain the prance and hop by sandy dish
Of water that would hardly hold a fish,
For octopus is home and, ’neath a tuft
Of seaweed that the tide has left,
Peers redly
Up.
The pup
With black-eyed backward glance heads home-
ward
Sadly.
N.S.W.
JACK LUSBY.
THE LONE RAILWAY
TT must be the strangest and most lonely
railway in the world—one on which
there is no need for signals or warning-
lights, no fear of collisions between trains
and where the hiss of steam is never
heard.
Shown on the map as a short, curving
black line, the 92 miles of steel join Nor-
manton, on the Gulf of Carpentaria, with
Croydon, a once-famous and flourishing
goldmining town.
At each terminus is a large station, cap-
able of sheltering several complete trains.
They are still there, their wheels thickly
coated with the rust of many years, their
woodwork destroyed by yhite-ants and
decay. I opened a carriage-door and it
collapsed in my hands. Engines, com-
plete except for their boilers, lie idle and
useless.
The timetable promises one rail-motor
a week, departing from Normanton at
9 a.m. each Wednesday, and leaving
Croydon on the return journey at the
same time next day. I saw it depart on
scheduled time, but friends who intended
travelling on it arrived an hour late, and
cooled their heels on the hotel veranda
for a week,
I remarked to one of the station staff
that the rail-motor, drawn up at the plat-
form, appeared to be past the prime of
its life, and was invited to view the
stand-by motor. This was a Panhard, a
rare vintage-model. Such a monster could
not be anything but the first rail-motor
ever made anywhere. On again looking
at the one in weekly use I wondered how
I could ever have thought it anything but
ultra-modem.
The station staff consists of a station-
master and a clerk. Each Wednesday
morning the office is opened for the sale
of tickets and consignment of goods. In
reply to my inquiry as to the average
number of passengers, I was told it was
“one, or a bit less.” That day it was
“a bit less.”
At 9 a.m. precisely the office is closed
and locked, and the station staff changes
its identity and becomes rail-motor crew
—driver and guard, respectively—and the
old motor bravely starts its lonely journey
to Croydon. On arrival there the office is
opened and the crew become station staff
again. The procedure is repeated the
next day for the return journey.
A little later I travelled part of the route
by car, and saw the intermediate station,
Black Bull, about half-way. The black
bull had long ago departed for greener
pastures, and all I noticed was a rusty
out-of-use water-tank. 3
This little railway is a melancholy-
reminder of a past glory, when Croydon
supported 20,000 people and Normanton
was a thriving seaport. Their prosperity
vanished with the gold.
W. E. MULHOLLAND.


THE CONVENTION
CHOSE...
Sslia
TO BE SURE OF THE FACTS
NOT A TAPE RECORDER—NOT A CONVENTIONAL
DISC TYPE
The Dimafon proved an outstanding success in
recording accurately and instantly ALL business
discussed at the recent Laundry Convention.
Dimafon is renowned for ease of operation and
reliability—no part of your correspondence is
"fluffed” if you dictate direct to the Dimafon, your
secretary can stop, start or re-play the machine and
be definite that the transcribed notes are accurate
in every detail.
If your day is a nerve-racking race against time,
you owe it to yourself to investigate the Dimafon
method. It makes the stenographer's work far
easier than transcribing from note-books ever could.
Measures only high. Packs into handsome
carrying case.
Guaranteed and Serviced by
CHARTRES LTD.
POST THIS TO-DAY Phone M 042 S
To CHARTRES LTD., 169 Liverpool St* Sydney.
Please contact me and arrange to demonstrate the Dimafon.
It is clearly understood that this places me under no obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS DL2
Research in Industry .
No. 2 of a Series
&
tJMan Against x.Mosquito
Malaria has killed more men than wars have ever done.
Its conquests in days gone by have played a large part in
determining the pattern of civilisation. Prior to 1925, the
only antimalarial in general use was quinine. In that year
the synthetic compound pamaquin was introduced, to be
followed by mepacrine in 1930. In 1944, “Paludrine” was
discovered in the 1.C.1. research laboratories. Large scale
field trials were successfully carried out in Queensland by
the Australian Army and this new drug soon became well
known to many of our service men and women. It has
proved supreme in the protection and treatment of all who
work in malarious areas.
“Paludrine” is protecting the men of the British Com-
monwealth Division in Korea and it was also used by the
conquerors of Everest.
“Paludrine” is only one of the discoveries of world sig-
nificance which have accrued from 1.C.1.’s research and
development programme a programme to which the
company devotes no less than £-7,500,000 per year.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES .jgv
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
L.538.481S
Business, Rollery, Etc.
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK
'T'HE chief objections to Com-
-1 monwealth banking policy, so
far as the trading banks are con-
cerned, are that the Common-
wealth Trading Bank is not com-
pletely separated from the cen-
tral bank, and that the Banking
Act, 1945, gives the central bank
powers to restrict the business
of the trading banks, to control
the managerial discretion of the
trading banks, control bank-
interest rates, and, in an extreme
case, to close-up any or all of
the trading banks.
The trading banks have
pressed, from time to time, for
the complete separation of the
Commonwealth Trading Bank
from the central bank, and for
the repeal of the Banking Act.
1945.
The trading banks have said
that they do not object to the
Commonwealth Trading Bank
competing with them on equal
terms and separated from the
central bank; they also agree
that the central bank must have
some powers over the trading
banks. And they admit that it
is proper that the trading banks
should lodge reserve deposits
with the central bank, with
appropriate safeguards as to the
maximum deposit, rate of
interest, etc. But they maintain
that the 1945 legislation was
conceived in a spirit not of
regulating banking, but of con-
trolling individual banks, and of
introducing profit-control.
The Banking Act, 1945, was
introduced by the Chifley Gov-
ernment when the war-time
National Security Regulations
were running out. The Act was
amended in 1953 by the Menzies
Government, but not to the
satisfaction of the trading banks.
The method by which the special
deposits are demanded by the
central bank in particular is
said to be complex and unfair,
and it has been suggested by the
banks that the maximum of their
“reserve deposits” lodgeable
with the central bank should be
limited to 15 p.c.-20 p.c., with
30 p.c. the maximum in case of
an emergency. It is emphasised
that each bank should be
required to deposit the same
proportion of its funds, and that
the central bank should be
allowed no discretion in penalis-
ing one bank as against another.
Interest to be paid on reserve
deposits at a rate not less than
1 p.c.
The introduction (in
February, 1953) of the legisla-
tion which set up the Common-
wealth Trading Bank and
amended the Banking Act,
1945, produced considerable
criticism from the trading banks
and other sections of the com-
munity. More recently the
report of the Commonwealth
Bank itself has evoked criticism,
especially as restrictions on
bank - advances have been
deemed necessary by the central
bank. In his annual report the
governor of the central bank.
Dr. H. C. Coombs, said;
Some increase in bank-advances
during 1953-54 was justified since pro-
duction was increasing and stocks
were being replenished after the con-
traction in the previous year to below
normal levels. The rise of £ll5
million, however, was substantial,
and may well have been more than
was required to maintain employment
and provide for the growth of the
economy. With the economy now
fully employed, restraint will be
necessary if increasing bank-advances
are not to contribute to the emergence
i of excess demand. It would be in the
interest of economic stability if firms
were, for the present, to plan to
reduce their dependence on bank
finance.
In its annual report last year the
Commonwealth Bank stated that
special accounts were now being
administered to regulate the impact
on the system of fundamental changes
in banking liquidity, such as those
arising from the balance of payments
and from changes in the pattern of
Government finance. This leaves to
the individual bank the responsibility
for maintaining, apart from special
accounts, a structure of assets suf-
ficiently liquid for all normal require-
ments, including seasonal and other
short-derm demands on its cash.
If the banks are to bear this
responsibility and special accounts
are to be available to meet major
losses of deposits and cash of the kind
experienced in 1951-52, it is essential
that their policies should be directed
to maintaining an adequately liquid
structure of assets.
The most suitable distribution
between the various kinds of liquid
assets will, vary to some extent from
bank to bank and from one time of
the year to another, but it is the
view of the central bank that a ratio
of liquid assets (comprising cash,
deposits with the central bank and
Treasury bills) and Government
securities to total deposits of about
one quarter, allowing for seasonal and
other short-term variations, would
generally be appropriate. If banks
adjusted their lending policies from
time to time so as to work towards
this general objective it would be
easier for the central bank to ensure
that the banking system had sufficient,
but not more than sufficient, funds to
meet the needs of a steadily expand-
ing economy.
Since the bank report was pub-
lished the special accounts of
the trading banks with the cen-
tral bank have been reduced by
about £4O million, so that no
noticeable force has been
employed against the trading
banks to make them restrict
their lending. But it will be
noted that Dr. Coombs has
stated that the central bank has
“left to the individual bank the
responsibility for maintaining,
apart from special accounts, a
structure sufficiently liquid for
all normal requirements,” and
has suggested a 25 p.c. ratio,
apart from special accounts, to
total deposits. Whether any
pressure has been employed to
achieve the bank’s objective is
not clear. But it is apparent
that advances have gone on
rising since June 30 —at a
greater rate by the Common-
wealth Trading Bank than by
the trading banks as a whole.
The private banks naturally tend
to regard such a trend with
suspicion. But at September 30,
though the Commonwealth
Trading Bank’s advances had
moved up £8 million in the three
months, against a rise of £3
million in deposits, its ratio of
advances to deposits was low
at under 50 p.c.
A review of the overall
activities of the Commonwealth
Bank is interesting. The central
bank itself had funds of £692
million at June 30 last, of
which £351.9 million repre-
sented the frozen funds of the
trading banks:
' CENTRAL BANK
Liabilities.
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Capital 4.0 4.0
Reserves 3.4 4.8
Deposits—
Special accounts of
trading banks .. 331.9 351.9
Other deposits of
banks 58.5 54.4
Other (including con-
tingencies) .. .. 292.3 271.9
Other liabilities .. .. 6.0 5.4
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Gold and balances
abroad 397.7 384.7
Notes, cheques, etc. .. 22.2 15.9
Government securities 201.6 226.4
Bills 7,7 7.1
Premises 0.5 0.5
Other assets 66.1 57.7
It would appear that these
special accounts had not
changed much between balance-
dates, but there was a reduction
of £5O million early in the year,
a rise of £9O million during
Jan.-March, and a later reduc-
tion of £2O million, leaving the
net movement at + £2O million.
The individual changes were
based on the trading banks’
liquidity and deposit position.
The note-issue department
showed an increase of £l7 mil-
lion in the note-currency:
NOTE-ISSUE DEPARTMENT
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Notes 326.6 343.8
Reserve 4.7 4.7
Other liabilities .. .. 2.8 3.2
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Gold and balances
abroad 88.2 120.8
Government securities 245.9 231.0
The rural credits department
“Guess who !”
is engaged in making large
short-term loans to statutory
marketing boards and similar
organisations to finance the
marketing of primary produce
pending its eventual sale. Last
year changing requirements of
different primary industries
mostly offset each other:
RURAL CREDITS DEPT.
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Capital 2.3 2.4
Reserves 0.8 0.9
Liabilities and con-
tingency 52.5 51.9
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Loans, advances, etc. 55.6 55.2
During 1954-55 reversion to
private overseas trading in meat
and other commodities will
shift some financial arrange-
ments to the trading banks.
The mortgage-bank depart-
ment provides fixed loans to
primary producers. Loans may
not exceed £lO,OOO and are
fixed for a prearranged term,
repayment being by uniform
half-yearly instalments. The
security taken is a first mortgage
over the borrower’s farming or
grazing property.
The profits of this department
(£59,166 last term) are credited
to reserves:—
MORTGAGE BANK
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£mil. £mil.
Capital 4.6 4.8
Reserve 0.3 0.4
Liabilities 0.4 0.5
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Cash 0.1 0.2
Govt, securities .. .. 0.5 0.5
Loans 4.6 5.0
The industrial finance depart-
ment makes term-loans, repay-
able over an agreed period, and
has given priority to develbp-
mental projects of national
importance. The sub-underwrit-
ing of selected industrial-share


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan
Pty,
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
104-308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Between
Ourselves
df
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Pianist Ungers record
The hands of a young pianist—a recent performer
with the Queensland Symphony Orchestra as finalist
in a cpncerto competition—are here seen playing their
part in the work of a branch of the Bank of New
South Wales. The statement sheet she is selecting
is a customer’s record of his current account.
Over 8,000 pairs of hands working in the “Wales”
keep over 600,000 banking accounts. They are willing
to work for you, too.
(m
Consuli and use
d
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5424C
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
f
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 765 Wellington, N.Z.)
and debenture issues has con-
tinued, and, in some cases,
direct provision of share- and
note-capital has been approved ;
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE DEPT.
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Capital
Reserve *7 IQ7
Liabilities 18-4 19.7
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Cash .. %
Govt, securities .. .. LO
Loans 22263
During the year the hire-
purchase section financed 21,800
retail transactions totalling £14.2
million, covering a wide field of
industry, including a growing
proportion of primary pro-
ducers.
The controversial Common-
wealth Trading Bank attracted
£31.6 million of additional
deposits during the term. Most
of the extra went into advances,
bills, etc., which together rose
by £23.2 million:
COMMONWEALTH TRADING
BANK
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Capital 4.6 4.9
Reserve I*6 „ L 8
Deposits, etc 178.7' 210.3
Other banks 0.4 0.2
Assets
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Cash, cheques, etc. .. 21.4 22.5
Special account .. .. 32.2 38.6
Treasury bills .. .. 30.6 10.0
Govt, securities .. .. 15.2 35.1
Bilk 20.7 27.0
Premises 2-3 2.9
Loans, advances .. .. 61. v /».»
Other assets .. • ■ 0.8 2.2
The accounts do not show fixed
deposits separately from current
accounts.
In the savings-bank, which
has 4,558,000 active accounts,
there was a growth of £44.8
million in deposits: —
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS
BANK
Liabilities
1953. 1954.
£ mil. £ mil.
Reserve 7.7 8.3
Deposits 609.1 653.9
Other liabilities .. .. 16.7 19.0
Assets
1953. 1954.
£mil. £mil.
Cash, etc 62.5 68.5
Commonwealth
securities 436.8 451.3
Other securities .. .. 58.7 67.7
Premises 3.0 3.5
Loans, etc 64.7 80.7
Other assets 7.7 9.5
The average depositor’s balance
is £143, against £136 in the pre-
ceding year. The interest-bear-
ing limit has been raised from
£lOOO to £l5OO, with 2\ p.c.
payable up to £5OO, and \\ p.c.
on £5Ol-£l5OO.
One of the latest comments
on the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s banking policy comes
from Australia’s oldest trading
bank. “It is a prime function
of a central bank,” says the
Bank of N. S. Wales, “to have
authority and power to influence
the credit base and therefore
the volume of business that can
be financed by the trading
banks. In our opinion, how-
ever, the existing form of bank-
ing control is conceived and
consequently administered in an
unnecessarily restrictive spirit.
The growth of business enter-
prise is impeded by the severe
limitations imposed on the trad-
ing banks’ use of their funds
through the special-account
formula and the liquidity
standard pressed by the central
bank. The maintenance of this
control in its existing form
might well' stifle the part the
trading banks are equipped to
take in national development.
“Complete confidence within
the banking system is essential
to the efficient and adaptable
operation of the credit
machinery, but it can hardly
exist while the controls are
applied with considerable rigor
for reasons which are not fully
clear. Moreover, that confi-
dence can never be complete
while central-bank power is
wielded by an authority which
at the same time directs the
trading operations of a com-
petitor bank. In the circum-
stances this serious anomaly
calls for a comprehensive review
of the existing banking legisla-
tion in the interests of the
whole structure of free business
enterprise and national growth.
The aim should be to separate
the central bank from the
Commonwealth Bank’s trading
activities and to simplify the
system of credit-control.”
Rough Range No. 6
L. Owen writes: The
announcement that the drilling-
site for Rough Range No. 6 well
has been fixed at only 860 ft. s.-w.
from No. 1, and almost midway
between Nos. 4 and 5, will come
as a disappointment to many.
As far as can be judged, the
location has been influenced by
assumptions that the oil/water
interface (which was encountered
at the depth of 3620 ft. in No. 1
well) is approximately horizontal
throughout the structure, and
that unbroken and uniform
permeability persists within the
“reservoir” sand. These, of
course, are textbook conditions,
only rarely encountered in
Nature.
Accepting these assumptions—
to which I, personally, do not
subscribe- —and analysing the
data as if one were dealing with
a five - point mathematical
problem, the information
obtained from the sinking of the
five wells can be fitted in with
an elongated dome whose major
axis, at the horizon which pro-
duced oil in No. 1 well, runs
n.-e.-s.-w. Accepting a maximum
thickness of 17ft. of oil-
impregnated sand, the edgewater
(which marks the outer perimeter
of the impregnation) would
reach the cap-rock of the sand
about 2170 ft. s.-w., and 405 ft.
n.-e., along the major axis from
No. 1 well. On the n.-w. and
s.-e. flanks, the edgewater should
be encountered about 180 ft.,
n.-w. and s.-e., from No. 1.
It would seem, therefore, that
—if textbook conditions are even
approximated —the new well,
which almost straddles the major
axis as placed by the method of
analysis indicated, is located
some 1300 ft. n.-e. of the s.-w.
limit of the oil-impregnation, and
should pass through just over
10ft, of “oil-sand” before it
strikes salt-water. Put in another
way, the No. 6 location allows a
“safety factor” of 2i against
departure from the theoretical
ideal.
Whether this is enough—in
view of the now-recognised com -
plexities of the Rough Range
structure, and of the very viscous
nature of the oil drawn from
the No. 1 bore —remains to be
seen. Even if oil is struck, and
particularly if the thickness of
the impregnation is found to be
less than 10ft., the testing of the
Rough Range “pool” can
scarcely be said to justify its cost,
unless it furnishes a definite lead
with reference to the wider
search for oil at depth.
A strike of petroleum at this
juncture would, of course, give
a tremendous fillip to the market
in speculative stocks, but whether
this would be a real advantage
from the long view is open to
question, although some financial
experts already are bemoaning
the fact that the Adelaide Stock
Exchange has declared an extra
week’s holiday this Christmas.
Omati No. 1
“Oil Geologist” says: The
report that the sidetracked and
redrilled Omati No. 1 well has
reached the depth of 13,780 ft.,
and that a 4iin. liner has been
inserted successfully through the
very treacherous strata which are
encountered between 11,469 ft.
and 13,774 ft. at this location,
should have strengthened the
market in Oil Search shares, as
that co. holds a 10 p.c. interest
in the Papuan venture.
For some unaccountable
reason, however, and by some
unfathomable reasoning, the
shares suffered a substantial fall
when the news was published.
It may have been that the
statement that “No additional
information concerning the
original gas show encountered
at 13,743 ft. will be available
until it is possible to conduct a
test, preparations for which are
now being made,” was too
factual for a public so long
nurtured on optimistic hyperbole
with reference to most of the
current Australian oil-prospects.
The warning that all opera-
tions were being carried out
under a heavy mud column
should have indicated why no
additional information was
immediately available. Moreover,
the fact that gas under heavy
pressure is known to exist near
the bottom of Omati No. 1 well
ought to restrict excessive share-
value fluctuations until the results
of the forthcoming tests are
available.
Costs and Import-licensing
Officially New Zealand is on
a 40-hour five-day week for most
trades and industries, but in
many factories and on big
contracts the week is longer than
40 hours, because of overtime,
which is so common that the
general run of workers are not
interested in 40 hours at the pay
that goes with it. What they
want is a fat overtime addition,
at high rates for the extra hours.
But for overtime the 40-hour
week would have become un-
workable long ago, or some
major changes, such as a big
increase in immigration, higher
award rates and speeding-up in
production, would have had to
come. As it is, managements and
staffs seem happy enough to
work the extra time and pass
on the costs.
Employers who dislike over-
time as a method haven’t much
choice, because of competition
for staff that forces all to toe
much the same line in the under-
supplied labor-market. This
state of things can continue only
so long as the Board of Trade
favors high protection, which it
cannot be expected to do
indefinitely.
Once the door is opened wide
enough to sharpen competition
between local and overseas
manufacturers, overtime as a
system will have little chance of
survival and average weekly
earnings will fall. The
system has other weaknesses
besides cost-inflation, in that
workers don’t have to put
forward their best foot to hold
jobs, and there’s fairly general
instability in staffs. The standard
of performance, both in quantity
and quality, would be higher,
and the competitive power of
N.Z. industry stronger, if more
discipline could be exercised to
overcome slackness and
inefficiency.


How much
d
time will vonr
Executor have lor affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer. ,
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way o Chairman ).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
{Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kaier.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart*
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
PT.80.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
THE 137-year-old Bank of N.S.W. is
oldest and largest, and so naturally
the leader, of the big private trading
banks, which are a most important part
of the financial mechanism of Australia’s
rapidly-expanding economy.
Features of the co.’s latest
accounts, and of the accompanying
chairman’s report, are; (1) con-
tinued expansion of the business, (2)
issue of new share capital at a premium
of 37.5 p.c., (3) expansion of both earn-
ings and earning-power, (4) further lift in
the dividend rate, (5) disclosure of
inner reserves, (6) depletion of free
liquid resources and consequent
tightening of credit-facilities, and (7)
stringent criticism of central-bank policy.
It was to help provide the enlarged
banking services which a fast-growing
nation needs that the £4,390,000 of fresh
capital and £1,646,250 of share-premiums
that came with it were gathered. The
share-premiums—they were added to
reserves —make the div., which was
gently jacked-up from 8i p.c. to 9 p.c.,
worth only 6.5 p.c. on the new capital.
Visible reserves (now £10,769,240) also
benefited by £1,000,000 taken from an
inner provision for contingencies, which
is lumped with deposits, etc., in the pub-
lished accounts. Shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) need turn
in only a shade under 5 p.c. to cover 9
p.c. on capital alone, whereas last term’s
profit was 6.2 p.c. on these funds.
Speaking broadly, the year to Septem-
ber 30 last was one of progress and pros-
perity, with relative stability of costs and
prices. Demand strengthened, especially
for consumption goods, and was met by
an increase in domestic production and
higher level of imports. The banks shared
in the progress, of course. After allowing
unstated amounts for taxation, bad and
doubtful debts, fluctuation in the value
of investment securities and other con-
tingencies, as well as writing down the
book-value of premises by an unspecified
sum, the ’Wales declared net earnings in-
creased by £373,582:
Net To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £> £> £
1950.. 847,790 8 p.c. = 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 954,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952.. 997,769 8 ~702,400 295,369 7,338,638
1953.1,117,835 8* „ 746.300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1.646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves. £1,000,000.. 10,356,423
1954. 1,491,417 9 p.c. =1,078,600 412,817 10,769,240
The £1,491,417 of profit claimed was
12.4 p.c, on average capital, or 11.3 p.c.
on capital as it stood at the close of
accounts, compared with 12.7, 11.3, 10.8,
9.6 and 8.4 p.c. back to 1949. Most of
the profit seems to have come from invest-
ments in public securities (£39,083,893),
Treasury bills (£10,000,000) and deposits
on special account with the central banks
(£84,760,650).
The lift in the div. and dis-
closure of inner reserves can be taken
as an expression of the board’s confidence
in the future. Over the last four years
divs. averaged 8.4 p.c,, compared with
averages of 6.2 p.c, for the preceding
decade, 5.7 p.c. for the 10 difficult years
before that, and 11.2 p.c. for the 10 flush
years to 1930.
Of last term’s growth of £37,616,448
in total assets, £30,068,617 was due to
expansion of deposits, etc., and £6,036,250
to introduction of new capital and share-
premiums :
t, .. , 1952. 1953. 1954
laid capital £8,780,000 £8,780,000 £13,170,000
Reserves .. 7,338,638 7,710,173 10,769,240
tv?! 68 -if „ 80 -900 80,928 80,917
Deposits, etc. 379,235,617 426,014,259 456,082,876
linal div... 175,600 197,550 296,325
£395,610,810 £442,782.910 £480,399,358
Liquids .. 135,921.419 163.661,597 131.591,143
Special a/cs. 46,722,589 77,369,950 84,760,650
Advances . . 207,857,008 196,028,276 257,254,345
Premises 5,100,000 5,700,000 6,250,000
Other assets 9,794 23,087 543,220
£395,610,810 £442,782,910 £480,399,358
Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
To meet the net addition of £61,226,069
to advances, free liquids were drawn
£ or £32,070,454, while an extra
£7,390,700 was siphoned off into special
account with the central banks in Aus-
tralia (£76,420,000) and New Zealand
(£8,340,650). The ratio of free liquids
to deposits, etc., fell from 38.5 p.c. to
29 p.c. over the last 12 months. Hence
the tightening of credit-facilities for
traders and others.
The amount on special account with
the central banks (equal to 18.5 p.c. of
deposits, etc.) is in the nature of
a special reserve, which is increased
or decreased, at the discretion of
the central bank, to damp down infla-
tionary trends or to cushion the effects of
emergency developments, such as occurred
in 1952. Thus in fact the ratio of the
co.’s total liquid resources (free and
frozen) to deposits, etc., is 47.4 p.c., which
is an exceptionally strong position.
It was these and other things that moved
the chairman of the ’Wales to say:
The existing form of banking-control is
conceived and consequently administered
m an unnecessarily restrictive spirit. The
growth of business enterprise is impeded
by the severe limitations imposed on the
trading banks’ use of their funds through
the special-account formula, and the
liquidity standard pressed by the central
bank... .Complete confidence in the bank-
ing-system can hardly exist while the con-
trols are applied with considerable rigor
for reasons which are not fully clear.
Moreover, that confidence can never be
complete while central-bank power is
wielded by an authority which at the same
time directs the trading operations of a
competitor bank.
The central bank’s policy, and the
aims behind it, are sound in both theory
and practice, and there is little room for
complaint about the way in which the
central bank dealt with the liquidity crisis
of a couple of years ago. Nevertheless,
there are good and adequate reasons for
giving the trading banks yet a little more
elbow-room in their management of
credit and investments.
The central bank is certainly earning
a profit on its special-account deposits
from the trading banks, and part of its
overall profit is passed to the Common-
wealth Trading Bank, a competitor of
the private trading banks. Under
existing legislation the central bank
can call upon the trading banks to
lodge with it up to 75 p.c. of any increase
in their deposits. At June 30 last the
central bank held £406.3 million of trad-
ing-bank funds, including £38.6 million
belonging to the Commonwealth Trading
Bank. Of the lot, £54.4 million carried no
interest and £351.9 million interest at
15s. p.c. The £406.3 million accounted for
over 58 p.c. of total liabilities of the
central bank, which made a profit of
£3.9 million. Of this profit £142,500 was
transferred to the Commonwealth Trad-
ing Bank, which received a further
£142,500 from the profits of the Note
Issue Department.
At £3B the ’Wales £2O shares return
4.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is £36 7s. Id.
Tull Bryant, Lid.
AANE of the largest manufacturers and
distributors of heavy-duty construc-
tion and ancillary equipment in the Com-
monwealth, this 16-year-old holds 35 or
more American and British agencies and
licences to manufacture, which cover
machinery for earth-moving, quarrying
and open-cut mining, drilling, road-con-
struction and maintenance, material-
handling and railway-construction work,
etc. The parent co.’s main works are at
Rydalmere, near Sydney, and there are
in all the mainland States subsidiaries
which attend to assembly, distribution
and maintenance.
To get the business into perspective it
first needs to be remembered that demand
for its products depends largely upon the
requirements of Government and semi-
Government bodies for developmental
projects, etc., and upon the needs of the
mining, building, construction and other
industries, which use power-shovels, drag-
lines, cranes and other materials-handling
equipment, etc.
Australia’s big post-war development
programme of national and other works
kept the co.’s order-book well ahead of
its rapidly-expanding output until the end
of 1952. During the four years after the
public became interested in 1948, paid
capital advanced from £150,000 to
£909,375, ord. divs. averaged 12.5 p.c.
with wide margins, and £508,419 of re-
serves had been accumulated. Then the
construction activities of public and other
authorities were severely curtailed. For
producers it meant a sharp drop in turn-
over, accumulation of stocks, cut in sell-
ing-prices and heavy fall in net earnings.
Tutt Bryant’s profit tumbled from a
peak of £212,209 for the year to June 30,
1952, to £74,464 for the following term:
Parent and Subsidw.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c.'
1949.. 101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 81,887 111,977
1950. .185,145 5781 15 „ ~ 37,969 141,395 268.372
1951. .207.603 7500 15 „ ~ 73,828 126,275 379,647
1952. .212,209 7500 10 „ ~75,937 128.772 508,419
1953.. 74,464 7500 8 „ ~60,750 6,214 514,633
Profit sale land, £16,606 .. .. 581,239
1954. .135,026 7500 10 p.c. = 77,656 49,870 581,109
+ Subject to intangibles, etc., now £3OOO.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was a gradual
strengthening of economic activity, and
the co.’s turnover increased by £150,656,
reaching £3,559,999, which was 32 p.c.
below the 1952 peak level. Costs were
steadier, thanks partly to the wage stand-
still pronouncement of the Arbitration
Court and partly to managerial action,
and the rate of co.-tax had been reduced
in the 1953 Budget.
Gross earnings (£643,522) advanced
by £46,235, and administrative and
general exes. (£451,546) were pulled back
by £42,225. So, after allowing £56,950
(up £27,898) for taxation, the net result
(£135,026) benefited by £60,562. The
£135,026 was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 16.8 p.c. on the £759,375 of
ord, capital, compared with 8.8, 26.9,
40.6, 70.8 and 56.3 p.c. back to 1949.
That leaves out of the reckoning a profit
of £16,606 on sale Of land, interlined in
the table. A couple of points were added
to the div., making it 10 p.c., and the
£49,870 that remained lifted reserves to
£581,109, subject to £3OOO of intangibles.
During the year £77,822 more was spent
on plant than was written off, which sug-
gests that the board expects a strong
demand for the co.’s products to con-
tinue :
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £909,375 £909,375 £909,375
Reserves .. .. 508,419 514,633 581,109
Mortgages .. 56,000 58,000 58,000
Overdraft .. 1,126,075 907,819 771,602
Sundry creditors,
etc 714,064 436,024 652,949
Tax provision .. 288,649 139,760 57,210
Staff fund .. .. 19,294 22,479 20,318
Final divs. .. 41,719 37,922 51,030
£3,663,595 £3,026,012 £3,101,593
Freeholds and plant 474,863 546,588 534,853
Shares subsidiaries 50,512 78,176 155,998
Stock .. .. 2,498,619 1,708,778 1,381,554
Book debts .. 584,230 640,262 997,736
Cash, etc. .. 25,386 22,233 28,452
Intangibles .. 29,985 29,985 3,000
£3,663,595 £3,026,012 £3,101,593
The growth of £357,484 in book-debts
reflects the revival in the trade. Stocks,
largest and most vulnerable of the assets,
were further reduced by £327,224, and
£136,217 was clipped off the overdraft,
while £216,925 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. The
improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£796,633) was £27,374.
The co.’s immediate prospects are par-
ticularly bright, the chairman says. That
is partly because of the increased bor-
rowing programme for 1954-55 approved
by the Loan Council for State and semi-
Government bodies, and because of the
actual and potential demand for oil-field
and other mining equipment which the co.
turns out. For the industry as a whole
plant-capacity is more than capable of
taking care of current demand. In the
years ahead much will depend upon the
level of Government spending, and the
efficiency and financial strength of pro-
ducers.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
shot up from 265. in May last to 365. in
July, stood at 30s. last week, giving a
return of 6.6 per cent, on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The £1 5 p.c. prefs. at 18s. yield
5.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is £9 18s. 9d.
prefs. and 355. 3d. ords.
Dangar, Gedye & Malioch, Ltd.
THE firmly-established D.G.M, group,
which trades in “everything in
machinery for the man on the land,”
continues to win very satisfactory results
and to consolidate its position. It consists
of parent and three subsidiaries, namely,
D.G.M. Refrigeration, Ltd., Pastoral
Accessories Pty., and Dangar, Gedye and
Malioch (Vic.), Pty. The last-mentioned
used to be the Melbourne branch, which
was converted into a subsidiary and
bought new premises at Flemington last
term. Most of the business is done in
N. S. Wales. Headquarters are at Sydney,
and there are branches at Newcastle,
Lismore, Wagga and Hay, and two more
are to be opened presently, one at Dubbo
and another at Moree, where properties
have been purchased.
For over 40 years the core of the busi-
ness has been the engines, shearing-
machines, separators, lighting-plants and
other products turned out by R. S. Lister
and Co. (Eng.), which set up a subsidiary
manufacturing-plant at Sydney in 1946;
but D.G. and M. remain sole distri-
butors for the products in N. S. Wales.
Activities of the refrigeration offshoot
were recently strengthened by its appoint-
ment as distributor in N. S. Wales for
Kelvinator commercial equipment. Other
lines handled include fodder-conservation
plant, disk-ploughs, rotary-hoes and a
wide range of farm and orchard irriga-
tion accessories, as well as Lanz tractors.
Turnover and net earnings of the group
expanded rapidly after the war, thanks
to boom conditions, growth in mechanisa-
tion, etc., of farm and other properties,
and the enterprise of the management.
The ord. div. climbed from 3 p.c. in 1935
to 8 p.c. for the three years to 1947,
followed by 13, 10y, two lots of 15 and
then \l\ p.c. for the three years to the
close of last accounts. And the 12| p.c.
was sweetened with a one-for-four issue
of bonus-scrip (£32,250) in 1951. During
the five years to June 30, 1954, profits
totalled £343,742, of which £148,566
(43.2 p.c.) was paid in dividends and
£195,176 (56.8 p.c.) was ploughed back
into the business, lifting reserves to
£304,040.
Another pleasing feature is the way
net earnings have stood up to adverse trad-
ing conditions —floods, drop in wool
prices, rush of imports, tightening of
credit and growth of competition—over
the last couple of years:
D.G. & M. and Subsidiaries.
v Dividends To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Ord. serves, serves.
8 & 5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Deducted on consolidation, £5599 .. 157,786
Revaluation of property, £33,000 .. 190,786
Reserves capitalised, £32,250 .. 158,536
’51..77,046 7,342 15 p.c. = 26,569 48,135 201,671
Unexplained addition, £1195 .. 202,866
’52..72,163 9,078 12* p.c. = 23,160 39,925 242,791
Unexplained addition, £7411 .. 250,202
’53..60,836 9,842 124 p.c. = 23,160 27,834 278,036
’54..60,379 9,842 124 „ „ 24,533 26,004 304,040
Last term’s £60,379 (down £457) of profit,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
KUV mom
SANDER!
tfj^FILI
Correspondence. Invoice*.
•totomerit*, etc.. Died Id the
’’Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted Into a
period book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent* —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
f
d
f
df
d
f
frlca tod
(bar (n(orioatl»B
The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
aU States.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO PHYLLIS EDNA MITCHELL. —TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES BRUNNELL MIT-
CHELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1044 of 1954 on the grounds of de-
sertion without Just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
Die Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist March 1955 and
obtain a copy of the ■ Petition without
charge from MESSRS. BRAYE & MAL-
OOMSON, Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney, or MESSRS. BRAYE ORAGG COHEN
it CHAPMAN. Solicitors, Bolton Street,
Newcastle. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Chairman's Address
To The Eighteenth Annual General Meeting
of Stockholders of
AMPOL PETROLEUM LIMITED
Held in Sydney on 10th December, 1954
The chairman, Mr. Leslie J. Thompson, in moving the adoption
of the directors’ report and balance sheet as at September 30, 1954,
drew stockholders’ attention to further records of progress, high-
lighted in the comprehensive reports and statements of accounts of
the company and its several subsidiaries, on which he commented
as follows:
SALES AND MARKETING
Sales and other revenue of the company and its subsidiaries
reached an all-time record of just on £l2| million (£12,447,790),
which is an increase of over £1 million (£1,100,983) compared with
1953.
This represents a 9.7% increase in sales value and a 17%
increase in sales gallonage compared with the previous year.
The company’s modern service stations and its highly trained
personnel operating these stations have been an important factor
in the rapidly growing gallonage, and the board’s policy is to press
on with the completion of its service station building programme
so that in the next few years a complete coverage will exist for
supply of the company’s exclusive products.
In the last three months of the year, marketing of the company’s
products was extended to the State of Western Australia and directors
are well pleased with the spontaneous reception received from the
motoring public and industrial users of that State.
NET PROFIT
Profit, before tax, for the parent and wholly owned subsidiary
companies reached the record figure of £717,576 compared with
£599,932 for the previous year—an increase of £117,644. After
providing for income tax the result was a net profit of £455,917,
being an increase over 1953 of £88,987.
During the year the board was successful in reaching a settle-
ment of the company’s claims, extending over a number of years,
in connection with the chartering of one of its tankers, and the
year under review had the benefit of this income which operated
to set off the loss of profit suffered during the year from the delay
in adjusting fixed selling prices to the increased costs.
DIVIDEND
In view of the progressive increase in profit over recent years
and the general stability of the company, as shown by the balance
sheet, the board decided to recommend an increase in the rate of
dividend from 10% to 12£%. The dividend at this increased rate,
together with the 6% dividend on the preference capital, will absorb
£346,177 of the consolidated profit and leave £109,740 for reserve
and carry forward.
RESERVES
The consolidated reserves and undivided profits now total
£2,713,305 against paid up capital of £3,735,600, making share-
holders’ funds £6,448,905.
The board’s policy over many years has been to build up
reserves to provide adequate cover for capital against unforeseeable
contingencies and shareholders will be gratified to know that the
present cover is now about equal to the total issued ordinary capital
and is approximately 28% of the total assets whilst total shareholders’
funds give a cover of £6 Bs. lid. for each £1 preference share.
ASSETS
The assets of the parent and wholly owned subsidiary companies
now total £9,729,501, after providing £368,317 for depreciation of
fixed assets. The increase in the total assets is largely represented
by expenditure on new service stations and marketing plant and
equipment, also the cost, during the year, of completing the new
ocean-going tanker “William G. Walkley.” This new tanker, which
was designed to include the latest improvements in tanker construc-
tion for economy in working costs, was completed at a total cost
of a little over £1,600,000.
As shareholders will recollect from the board’s reports of several
years past, the profits of the shipping department of the company’s
business have been a considerable part of the total profits and act
to level out the effects of periodical low profit margins in the
marketing section of the business, caused by the tardiness of the
prices departments in adjusting prices to equate increased costs.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN OIL SEARCH
Since the discovery of oil in No. 1 Rough Range, West Aus-
tralian Petroleum Pty. Limited has vastly increased its activities in
drilling and exploration. Four more test wells have been drilled at
Rough Range and, no oil having been discovered, were sealed and
abandoned. The location of No. 6 well in the Rough Range has
been made and drilling will proceed forthwith.
The deep test well, No. 1, has now been drilled to a point
below 13,000 feet. ..
In the course of drilling Cape Range No. 1, some 35 miles
westward of Rough Range, encouraging showings of both oil and
gas were encountered. It is now proposed to drill higher up m
this structure but, before the actual drilling can commence, some
extensive road-making has to be undertaken and this work is now
in has also been commenced at No. 1 location in the
Grant Range some 80 miles east of Derby. ... _ T
Simultaneously with these drilling proceedings W.A.P.E.T. is
engaged in a great exploration programme, over 100 men being
engaged in this part of the work. , . ,
Four gravity meter parties are in the field and four geological
parties are engaged in a detailed examination of the company s
various areas. Further seismograph work is planned for 1955.
Up to December, 1954, W.A.P.E.T. had spent £5,000,000 on
this undertaking and an expenditure of £4,000,000 is budgeted for
1955.
NOTE ISSUE
Shareholders will be pleased to know that the recent issue of
£1,500,000 of 6% unsecured registered notes with convertible rights
was heavily oversubscribed. ,
This money will be needed to meet the expenditure to be under-
taken in the market expansion programme of the next few years.
CONCLUSION
In conclusion I would like again to observe the expansion and
progress generally of the petroleum and motor car industries and to
emphasise their importance to the growing population and develop-
ment of Australia. So great is this development that it behoves the
Governments of Australia to plan well ahead for wider and better
roads, to meet the transport needs of the rapidly increasing
population.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
which was written after allowing
£10,197 (up £1397) for depre-
ciation and £32,463 (down £1097)
for taxation, was enough to pay
the pref. divs. (£9842) and show
25.7 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 27.5, 34 and 39.3 p.c.
for the three preceding years. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 8.6 p.c. So the
£175,000 of pref. money, cost-
ing on the average 5.6 p.c., and
the reserves make a tidy con-
tribution to the pool for the ords.
Expansion and consolidation
are the keynotes of balance-
sheet figures:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954.
Pref £175.000 £175,000
Ord 185,281 212,772
Outside interests .. 6,966 6,779
Reserves . . . . 278.036 304.040
Mortgages .. 85,000 82.000
Overdraft .. .. 175,199 277,501
Creditors . . .. 208,551 238,022
Tax provision .. 72,801 51,780
Pinal div 25,581 19,543
£1,212,415 £1,367,437
Freeholds .. .. 105,598 129,630
Plant, etc. .. 79,480 94,267
Stocks . . ' . . 731,446 746,260
, Debtors . . .. 294,224 389,437
Cash, etc 1,667 7,843
£1.212,415 £1,367,437
Book-debts (they include some
h.-p. agreements) increased by
£95,213 and stocks by £14,814,
while £14,787 more was spent on
plant than was written off, and
£24,032 was added to freeholds,
reflecting the purchase of prop-
erties already referred to. To
help meet the outlay the co. went
to its bankers for an extra
£102,302, increased the amount
coming to sundry creditors by
£29,471, and called up £27,491
of fresh ord. capital, making the
39,625 £1 contribs. paid to 15s.
each. The more-or-less liquid
surplus (£474,694) was £14,489
stronger than the previous
balance.
There is nothing to suggest
that the 12i p.c, div. is likely to
be interfered with during the
current term. Still, doubtful of
what the future holds for busi-
nesses dependent largely on the
prosperity of primary industries,
the market prices the f.-p. £1
ords. at 365. 3d. (40s. a year ago)
to return 6.8 p.c. on the basis of
last term’s distribution. At 265.
6d. and 16s, 6d. the 8 p.c. and
5 p.c. prefs. each yield 6.1 p.c.
After allowing for redeemable
capital, net tangible cover is £l6
10s. 7d. 8 percents., £l4 12s. lid.
5 percents, and 445. 3d. ords,
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
ISA stands high in the scale
among mining ventures. The
co.’s big medium-grade silver-
lead deposits and its high-grade
copper deposit are adjacent to
one another in the centre of
North Queensland. The ore is
treated on the spot, and the
products are railed to Townsville,
whence the silver-lead bullion is
shipped for refinement by a
subsidiary on the Thames, near
London, and the zinc concen-
trates are sold in various overseas
markets. Because of temporary
lack of refining-capacity in Aus-
tralia, thousands of tons of the
blister copper produced are
exported for treatment, and then
the refined article is shipped back
for sale in Australia.
The recent opening-up of the
copper deposit and production of
blister have enhanced the overall
investment prospects of the
undertaking. Copper was mainly
responsible for the leap of
£427,611 in profit earned for the
12 months to June 30, 1954. Less
lead and zinc was produced, and,
on average, sold at lower prices:
Net
June, Profit.* .—-“-Dividends —Reserves.
£ £ £
’50.. 878,587 15p.c.= 736,183 1,465,180
>61..1,360,842 25 „ „ 1,354,384 1,471,638
’52..2,179,758 20 „ 1,151,462 2,499,934
From tax provis’n, £1,800,000 4,299,934
’53..1,668,663 15p.c.= 863,597 5,105,000
’54..2,096,274 20 „ „ 1,151,462 6,049,812
* After deducting debenture interest and
allowing for depreciation.
Last term’s £2,096,274 of profit
was 36.4 p.c. on capital as against
29, 37.8, 27.7, 17.9 and 32.7 p.c.
back to 1949. The div., which
dropped to 15 p.c. in 1953, owing
to heavy capital needs, etc., was
lifted to 20 p.c. again.
Since divs. began to flow in
1947 distributions have averaged
18.3 p.c,, which called for two-
thirds of aggregate declared
profits. With heavy capital
outlay on the copper section
out of the way, and with
sufficient funds accumulated to
finance stocks over the long
period between production and
marketing, the call upon earnings
in these respects will be less in
the future.
Last term’s profit was written
after allowing £BOO,OOO
(unchanged) for depreciation,
£520,000 (up £220,000) for taxa-
tion, and charging earnings with
£107,147 (down £4680) spent on
prospecting. There was a drop
of £189,830 in the amount paid
to employees as lead-bonus
(£1,034,636, equal to 17.15. per
ton of ore treated), owing to the
fall in the price of the metal.
Average London prices for
lead and zinc, which fell sharply
following cessation of Govern-
ment bulk-buying in 1952-53,
eased further during the year to
June 30, 1954, because of
developments in the U.S.:
Average Price
Lead. Zinc.
Year to— £S. £S.
30/6/’52 .. 167 10 11 183 14 3
30/6/’53 .. 102 0 7 98 510
30/6/’54 .. 92 10 4 74 17 10
3 Mths. to —
30/9/’54 .. 98 1 5 78 0 7
15/12/’54 .. 103 7 6 83 0 0
The recovery in prices since the
close of accounts is due mainly
to revival of American buying.
This and the absence of any
heavy accumulation of stocks in
traders’ hands augurs well for
metal prices until June 30 next,
at any rate. The domestic price
of electrolytic copper per ton
fell from £A3SO in August, 1952,
to £A33O in April, 1953, and to
£A32O in October, 1954, and was
then decontrolled. The figure
has since been fairly steady
around £A3SO per ton, which is
approximately in line with
overseas markets.
Crude ore treated in the co. s
two mills compares as follows:
Orb Milled.
Lead, Copper. Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1953 .. 641,620 206,580 847,905
1954 . . 645,083 665,897 1,210,980
Head-value of the lead-zinc feed
was fractionally lower at 7.35 p.c.
lead, 5.750 z. silver and 6.3 p.c.
zinc. The copper ore assayed
0.6 p.c. better at 4.16 p.c. copper.
The marketable metals in the
various products produced were:
June Silver, Lead, Zinc, Copper,*
30, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1952.. 296.147 38,319 23,827 616
1953.. 3.195.374 38,536 21,413 6,053
1954.. 090.936 37,926 20,513 20,551
* Blister and dross.
The 1954 figures represent
recoveries of 82.3 p.c. of the lead
and 79.8 p.c. of the silver in the
lead concentrates, 51 p.c. of the
zinc in the zinc concentrates, and
92.6 p.c. of the copper in the
copper concentrates. Copper-
production is running about
2000 tons p.a. ahead of schedule,
and the co. is now the biggest
producer of the red metal in the
Commonwealth.
Excluding the lead-bonus,
operating costs were reduced by
5.55. to 85.15. per ton of ore
treated, thanks mainly to the
bigger tonnage handled. Rail-
freights increased, and are cost-
ing approximately £1,500,000 p.a.
Ore reserves at June 30 last
were put at:
r -‘—Assay—
Lead-zinc — Ag., Pb., Zn., Cu.,
Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carbonates .. 250,000 2.5 8.9
Sulphides ..9,650,000 6.4 8.7 6.1
Total ..9,900,000 6.3 8.7 6.1
Copper—
Sulphides ..3,644,000 4.1
Oxides 56,000 8.2
Total ..3,700,000 4.2
Diamond-drilling has disclosed
a lot of marginal-grade ore in
the extension of the lead-zinc
lode to the north in the Black
Star section. In the copper
section 13 diamond-drill holes
have indicated that the lode
extends for a further 2000 ft. in
commercial-grade ore. Core
assays varied from 2.2 p.c. to
3.3 p.c. copper, but average grade
has yet to be determined.
The co. joined the hunt for
uranium, and some 31 leases
were taken up in the Mt. Isa-
Cloncurry area, but so far tests
have disclosed nothing of com-
mercial importance. The co. has
offered to put up a plant for
treatment of uranium ores at Mt.
Isa, provided enough payable
stuff is proved to exist in the
area, and that suitable terms
can be arranged with the
Government.
Principal movement in
balance-sheet figures was the
growth of £1,688,046 in the
book-value of stocks, due mainly
to the copper-mill coming into
full production—the co. was
holding 12,000 tons of copper
when the books closed:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £5.757,312 £5,757,312
Reserves .. 5,104,999 6,049,811
Debentures .. 1,400,076 1,289,788
Creditors .. 622,986 724,728
Overdraft .. 234,606
Due to subsidiary
co 88,569 271,998
Tax provision. .. 319,513 565,879
Dividends .. 863,597 1,151,462
£14,157,052 £16,045,583
Mines and plant 7,589,600 8,108,347
Shares other cos. 1,161,683 1,161,056
Stocks* .. .. 4,153,784 5,841,830
Debtors . . 677,890 549,788
Bonds and cash 574,095 384,562
£14,157,052 £16,045,583
* Includes products on hand at valuation.
To carry the extra stocks, add
£518,747 net to mines and plant,
and clip £110,288 off the deben-
ture debt, the co. went to its
bankers for £234,605 and
increased the amount coming to
sundry creditors (up £101,742)
and a subsidiary (up £183,429)
by £285,171. Debtors’ balances
and cash, etc., were reduced by
£128,102 and £189,533 respec-
tively.
During 1954 the price of the
co.’s f.-p. £1 shares fluctuated
between 41s. and 60s. in the
market. Last week the figure
stood at 575. 6d., giving a return
of 7 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis,
or 8.7 p.c. on a 25 p.c.
distribution.


Women’s Letters
STDNCy
The party-season is well advanced,
with so many on the programme it is
unusual not to have two or three on the
one day. “I came on from that one and
I’m going on there” is a standard phrase,
and the amount of gherkins, cheese and
salty biscuits consumed would stock a
smallgoods shop for the year. The
Christmas-cake is a popular topic of con-
versation among the women, every one of
whom has a different infallible method of
making it, so that the novice trying to
learn how doesn’t know whether to put
it into a stone-cold oven or one at 450,
with similar varying advice on all other
points. The only point on which all the
cooks agree is that it is very easy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Perhaps the biggest Christmas-party
of them all was that given by the Smith
family for 4000 children at the Show-
ground on Saturday. The Governor, Sir
John Northcott, and the Federal Minister
for Social Welfare, Mr, W. McMahon,
mingled with the youngsters, all of whom
received a present from the huge stacks
which nearly filled one of the stands.
The Smith family arranged this party for
children who would probably not have
had a Christmas celebration at all, and
at the same time it sends 5000 hampers
all over the State to old-age pensioners
and destitute wives.
* ☆ ☆
The Aisling Society had its first
Christmas-party (indeed its first meeting)
at History House during the week, and
about 100 people came to it, drawn
together by a common interest in Irish
literature, folklore, music, history and
art. Aisling (pronounced “ashling”)
means “vision,” and was the name given
to the poems and songs which kept alive
the spirit of the Irish people during the
18th-century penal days. The vision of
this particular society has been for a
long time that of the secretary. Miss
Mary Hegarty, and of the president, Mr.
Brian McGrath. A programme of Celtic
music was a feature of the party, the
word “Nollaig,” the Gaelic for Christ-
mas, decorated the cake, many names
which had obviously once been Gaelic
decorated the guests, and the atmosphere
was altogether a gay and happy one.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the cast of “Dear
Charles,” with tenor Patrick O’Hagen
and puppeteer Peter Scriven, entertained
the 200 disabled ex-servicemen who were
the guests at a Christmas-party given by
Mrs. W. P, Minell at the Red Cross
Handcraft Centre. The room was
decorated with clever cut-outs of Santa
Claus working at the various handcrafts
which occupy most of the ex-servicemen
during the year. The speeches from
Shakspeare given by Mr. Clement Mc-
Callin, “The Seven Ages of Man” and
the “St. Crispin’s Day” speech from
“Henry V,” were among the most popular
features of the programme.
☆, ☆ ☆
Thousands are flocking to the “carols
by candlelight” Christmas celebrations
held on many nights during this season
both in city and suburban parks. This is
a distinctively Australian feature of the
Christmas season and a very nice one,
but unfortunately the Australian rain, in
a strikingly unpatriotic gesture, has
flooded one or two of the gatherings. It
is interesting to note that only a small
proportion of the crowds leave when the
rain begins, the rest remaining with Spar-
tan endurance, still clutching their candles
and singing away.
☆ ☆ *
The world-premiere of “Long John
Silver” at the Plaza was quite an exotic
affair, mainly because under the Klieg-
lights in the foyer everyone seemed
larger and noisier and more extra-
ordinary than life.
There were dozens of theatrical people,
natural ly, including Connie Gilchrist,
looking blonde and buxom in black lace
over pink; Evie Hayes, greeting Pro-
fessor Messel with glad cries and being
greeted by him with “Evie, darling! So
we’ve got the atom-bomb back in Sydney
at last!”; Robert Newton, minus
whiskers, but retaining sideburns ; Mrs.
Newton, in a beautiful American dress
of oyster-pink; Bill Constable, with
moustache more luxuriant than ever;
Mrs. Constable, jewelled and glittery in
white ; Grant Taylor, in a white tuxedo,
with Mrs. Taylor, in a blue ballerina ;
their son Kit, with a blond haircut like
a silky terrier’s ; and Tony Hartigan, his
understudy, with a similar “shaggy
look.”
Producer Byron Haskin was there, with
Mrs. Haskin, and there were crowds of
sparkling members of the American
community as well as the local smart-
set, all brilliantly dressed. In addition
to these (and to the film critics,
columnists, etc., who add their own
brand of exoticism to all assemblies),
there were Asiatics with hair piled high
and wearing short, tight skirts; there
were would-be Marlon Brandos in T-
shirts and denim pants; he-men who
kept their hats on all the time ; youths
with bodgie haircuts and tartan shirts ;
dark, gipsy-looking girls—in fact, all
kinds of people except the ordinary kind,
and the evening was strange and different.
Miss Marjorie Quinn, a selection of
whose poems has just been published by
Frank Johnson under the title “Candle-
light,” is one who has always lived in
the climate of poetry. Her father, P. E.
Quinn, and his brothers, James and well-
known Roderick, all wrote poetry, and
Miss Quinn had much of her verse
published in THE BULLETIN and “S. M.
Herald” Her first wish was to be a
dancer; she started to learn when she
was a four-year-old. The love of music
inherited from her mother led her later
to study singing, and she sang in several
concerts in San Francisco during one of
the three periods in which she has lived
in America. On the first occasion, when
her father was Trade Commissioner
there, she was “S. M. Herald” special
correspondent during the Panama-
Pacific Exposition.
Educated by the Loreto nuns at Kirri-
billi and Normanhurst (N.S.W.), Miss
Quinn was elected a member of the
Authors’ League in America, and in Aus-
tralia was the first secretary of the
Fellowship of Australian Writers
(N.S.W.). She says that today she is
blest with many wonderful friends,
and mentions especially author Will
Lawson, who arranged for the publica-
tion of “Candlelight,” and Miss Marie
Marshall, who typed her poems for her.
There seemed to be a non-stop quality
about the entertainment at the Christ-
mas-party of the Australian-American
Association (women’s section), which was
also a welcome-home to Mr. and Mrs.
Reg Willoughby. Mrs. Florence Taylor
welcomed all with her own special
warmth and friendliness, Mr- Willoughby
sang, Miss Lily Kolos sang, Mr.
Willoughby spoke of his experiences
abroad (he and his wife have been away
for six years), Mrs. Preston Stanley
Vaughan paid a tribute to Mrs. Taylor’s
qualities as leader, Miss Minnie Love
sang with all the spirit in the world
“The Old Apple Tree” and the “Little
Pudden Basin,” Mrs, Iney Marsden
recited a humorous sketch, everyone
sang carols, and Mrs. Taylor called to
mind how happy a Christmas this should
be with the world at peace and a
prosperous year ahead.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the most vigorous music-circles
in the suburbs is the Cammeray Music
Group, which, though only two years
old, could put up “Full House” for
all its concerts (15 or so) during the
year, and is doing excellent work in
training the younger generation in the
love of music and the dance. For its
Christmas-concert Thea Rowe and
Breffni Hosking provided the right touch
of gaiety and charm, and Miss Joyce
West delighted the audience with her
perfect accompaniments. The president
of the group, Mrs. L. Rath, welcomed
the members and guests.
/HIEILID'OUKNIE
The Governor-General, Sir William
Slim, and Lady Slim were guests-of-honor
at the late-afternoon party given at Gov-
ernment House by the Governor and
Lady Brooks. The State drawing-room,
where guests were received, was gay with
masses of palest-blue and white
hydrangeas ; in an ante-room a military-
band played soft, bright music as the
300 guests moved through.
Lady Slim wore a printed-silk frock
in muted soft blues and greys, the skirt
slightly full and the bodice swathed.
Lady Brooks’s choice was a pale blush-
pink silk patterned with green-and-
white lily-of-the-valley.
Most of the hats worn were very small:
Mrs. Angus Jones chose one in purple
straw, wreathed in pale-pink and mauve
flowers; Mrs, Norman Strange topped
her grey-and-white-spotted shantung suit
with a tiny pink-straw boater pierced
with a black quill. Lady Snow’s small
cloche of white satin went with a black
silk-shantung frock. Mrs. F. W.
Dennett’s swathed toque of American-
beauty nylon-velvet was finished at the
back with two roses. Mrs. Simon
Warrender’s tiny white feather-cloche
flew a spangled veil. In contrast was
the picture-hat of rose-pink straw, with
drooped brim and swathing of paler-
pink chiffon and roses, worn by Madame
Le Bas de Plumetot, wife of the French
Consul. Her frock was of grey silk-
shantung printed in white.
Mrs. L. R. Buxton’s frock of black
taffeta had a swathing of emerald-green
taffeta from one shoulder across to the
waist, and her small black-straw .boater
carried a diamente ornament. Other
guests noted were Captain John Slim ;
Mr. and Mrs. T. T. Hollway; Sir Chester
and Lady Manifold and their daughter
Mary; Mrs, F. R. Wright and her
daughter, Mrs. Ron Marriott; Mr.
Henry Bolte and Mrs, Bolte.
Pretty, petite Nina Cooke will achieve
a lifelong ambition when on Boxing
Day she appears as Principal Boy in the
Tivoli pantomime “Jack and Jill.” Born
in Minnesota (U.S.A.), Nina, who began
her stage career at 17 and since then
has toured America and Canada playing
leading roles in musical-comedy, speaks
German, French and a little Italian. She
arrived in this country to play the lead
in “Song of Norway,” met Charles Dorn-
ing, who was leading-man in that musical,
and in 1951 married him. Nina is also
in the Tivoli’s night-show, “Zip Goes
a Million.” Photo by Harry Jay.
Two little girls gaily dressed as elves
and another two as frogs formed a
guard-of-honor for the Governor when,
accompanied by Lady Brooks, he
arrived at the Myer Mural Hall to open
a display of Dwinkle Cottages. The
cottages, the work of second-year
Architectural College students, take their
name from the elf in Herbert Smith’s
The Book of a Thousand Friends. The
lovely illustrations in the book, which
when completed will be presented to his
Excellency, are the work of John Derrick,
former art-master at Geelong Grammar
School and p.-0.-w. veteran of Changi.
When the idea for the book was first
conceived Herbert Smith was organiser
of the Spastic Children Appeal; State
schoolchildren alone contributed £22,000.
Proceeds from the showing of the
cottages will also go to the same good
cause.
Lady Brooks wore a pretty grey silk
frock coin-spotted in white. Others at
the opening were Mr. and Mrs. Rattray
Wood (he is president of the Spastic
Children Appeal), Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Smith, the John Derricks, Lady Herring,
Dr„ Glyn White, Mrs. James Buchanan,
Mrs, Geoffrey Whitehead, Mrs. John
Casson, Mrs. F. N. Wright, Mrs. A. E,
Head, Mrs. Dick Noone and her small
daughter Anne.
☆ * *
With an illuminated Christmas-tree at
the door, and bowls of red and white
gladioli, carnations, white hydrangea and
Christmas-lilies in the reception-rooms,
R. h.-q. officers’-mess in St. Kilda-
road was a festive setting for a Christmas-
party. The 300 guests were received
by the president of the mess-committee,
Group-Captain I. Yeaman, and Mrs.
Yeaman, she wearing a green silk frock,
patterned in a black design, and a small
black hat.
Among the guests were the Chief of
Air Staff, Air-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley,
and Mrs. McCauley, her frock a sheath
of black pure-silk worn with a wide-
brimmed black picture-hat. Anne
McCauley was attractive in pastel-green
nylon frock, which had a portrait-
neckline. With Air-Vice-Marshal Eric
Hewitt was Mrs. Hewitt, who chose a
white silk frock and a hat that was a
wreath of white flowers.
Mr. A. S. Drakeford, M.H.R., was
with his wife, whose grey silk frock
was coin-spotted in white ; Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, who accompanied her husband,
Air-Vice-Marshal Wackett, chose a
royal-blue pure-silk frock patterned in
grey; Mrs. H. Gibson’s frock was of
white guipure lace and cut on slim lines,
her black velvet cap sprinkled with
diamente. Lady Wackett wore with her
black, jet-trimmed guipure-lace frock a
small velvet hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Young Contingent of the Victoria
League gave their Christmas-party in
the form of a buffet-dinner at the South
Yarra home of Mrs. P. Scott Williams.
A gaily-decorated Christmas-tree, lovely
flowers and colored balloons gave the gay
touch.
President Charmian Watt, in an
attractive frock of silk-foulard in saxe-
blue printed in white, received the
guests. She was assisted by Judith Scott
Williams, who teamed a royal-blue skirt,
emerald-green cummerbund and deep-
cream silk blouse. Adrienne Maxwell’s
white velvet ballerina-frock had a scoop-
neckline trimmed with white bobble-
fringe. .Barbara Hewitt’s pretty frock
was of pink silk spotted in black. Beatrice
Tussaud’s frock was of white guipure
lace.
❖ ❖ ❖
U.S. Consul Given Parsons and Mrs.
Parsons entertained at a late-afternoon
party at their South Yarra home to
introduce the new U.S. Consul, Mr.
Joseph E. Weidenmayer, and Mrs.
Weidenmayer. Decorations included
wreaths of holly-leaves, tied with scarlet
ribbon, red candles set in a bed of holly
across the mantelpiece, and bowls of red
and white gladioli mixed with hydrangea.
Noted among the guests were Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins, Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Robinson, Mr. and Mrs. Keith
Morrison, Lady McConnan and her
daughter, Mrs. H. Moreton, the Daryl
Lindsays, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Callahan,
the W. W, Killoughs, Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Gardner, and the Herbert Allens.
☆ ☆ ☆
President of the Royal Melbourne
Almoner Auxiliary Mrs. W. K. Burnside
(smart in a brown faille jacket-suit and
small brown cloche trimmed with tiny
pearls) was guest-of-honor at an after-
noon tea at Chevron given by the executive
and committee of the auxiliary. Mrs.
S. P. Kroussos, secretary, wore a pale-
pink, black-patterned silk frock with a
wide-brimmed black-straw hat. Treasurer
of the auxiliary, Mrs. S. E. Brunning,
chose an all-black ensemble. Also at the
party were Mrs. A. G. Warner, Mrs.
F. R. G. Fogarty, Mrs. Farrin Webb,
Mrs. A. Clack (a vice-president), Mrs. A.
Hooper and Mrs. A. E. Coates.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divobcr.
TO GWENDOLINE SCARR, late of Blay-
ney in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that AUDREY LUCK has
filed Petition No. 3759 of 1952 for a
Divorce from RUSSELL GEORGE LI C K
on the ground of his adultery with you
You may apply to the Court to be allowed
to defend A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from MAURICE
J. McGRATH, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Deputy Regis-
trar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES HENRY late of Canley Yale.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARY ELIZA-
BETH HENRY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4017 of 1952 on the ground
of desertion without just cause and excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th April
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from F. C. SINCLAIR,
Solicitor,, of 2b Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. —0. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Fullh lit the
Future
Christmas is the incomparable season.
It excited our childhood to a joy and
expectancy that returns again in the older heart
whenever Christmas approaches.
This upsurge of human sentiment in the great
December festival has always been to me a part
of the Christian mystery.
Why does the birth of a Child in poverty so
profoundly sway the emotions and stimulate the
Faith of hundreds of millions separated from
Bethlehem by centuries of Time?
Wise men have spent their lives exploring the
reasons. They have measured the depths of history
and theology in examining the many extensions of
the Christian Philosophy; and many men and
women have given their lives for their Faith.
There’s a time for each to meditate, according
to his way, on the deeper things of Life. But here
on the eve of Christmas, the great mass of Christians
accept the real within the mystical—by reaching
out to touch and taste the happiness the season
brings.
With Christmas, another year will almost
have closed behind us. It has been a good year.
The world has been spared the horrors of a major
war.
The international situation is less tense. There
has been a strengthening of that excellent British-
American relationship in which Australia shares.
Our country has prospered. In full employ-
ment, there are contented homes —homes in which
it is possible to spread the Christmas feast and
indulge the young.
These are blessings indeed, and we can be
humbly thankful that we inhabit a field of happiness
so wide and rich as Australia.
I give you my own Christmas thoughts:
Christmas is the great Festival of Love and
Charity ... of Faith in a Child humbly born . . .
a time to count our blessings and our friends; and
friends are blessings.
May you have the tranquil joys of a truly
happy Christmas, and everything of your best
wishing in the Year that is to come.
////asfoe^s
Missing Friend
JESSIE ANN LUND, nee WALTON, for-
merly of Mentone* in State of Vic-
toria, or any person knowing her present
whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. ABBOTT, STILLMAN &
WILSON, Solicitors, of 422 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, in the State of Vic-
toria.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“St. Matthew Passion”
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Mel-
bourne, which is a lovely build-
ing, was the stage for some
lovely music when its groins and
arches rang for three and a half
hours with Bach’s “St. Matthew
Passion,” sung by the Royal
Philharmonics; the soloists.
Max Worthley, Robert Payne,
Morris Williams, Glenda Ray-
mond and Florence Taylor; the
music turned on by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra under
Bernard Heinze’s baton.
It didn’t matter that the fine
edge of some of the music was
lost among the bays and ceilings
and that some of the singers were
invisible to some of the hearers—
it made the sounds more eerie
and impressive, and, after all,
you could always look at the
architecture, and see that most
of it had a quality similar to that
of the music.
Some of the choruses were
absolutely splendid, and Max
Worthley, as the Evangelist,
drove his easy tenor to every
part of the building, while the
pure tones of Marcel Kirby’s
harpsichord were the nearest
thing to heavenly music present
listener expects to hear.
♦♦♦ $
“La Vie Parisienne”
Jean Sablon,'the French singer
known to a wide circle by his
records, is packing ’em into the
Princess, Melbourne, He is no
Maurice Chevalier, but a gentle,
pleasant artist with an expan-
sive smile, a set of good teeth
and a pleasant voice and
manner. He sings songs that
would be regarded as unsophis-
ticated by local standards and by
patrons of the late Mo as down-
right sissy. He would probably
get his message over better in
the intimacy of a polite night-
club,
Eddie Lynn, the Harlem
Rhythm King, Guus Brox and
Myrna, ventriloquist Chris Cross
and Les Nus and Les Danseuses
provide the rest of the Life of
Paris.
In the final scene the bill
suddenly ascends into the higher
realms of culture by taking the
spectator into the august pre-
cincts of the Louvre, where a
number of well-proportioned
unclothed ladies give physical
reality to the masterpieces of
Ingres, Gustav Courbet and
Manet.
+!♦
Thea Rowe
In her concert for the
Cammeray (Sydney) Music
Group, Thea Rowe roamed all
over the British Isles with
delightful delineations of tradi-
tional folksongs. Miss Rowe
has a light soprano of quality
and good range, remarkably
pliant and expressive features, a
fine sense of comedy and the
ability to project herself un-
erringly into character.
Her programme included
“The Dumb Wife” (an old
English legend which Arthur
Benjamin used for his opera
“The Devil Take Her”), “The
Scarecrow” (with an ingeniously
devised costume), “My Lady
Wind” (a delightful fantasy
about an old lady’s bother with
winds), and “Widdicombe Fair”
(in which the singer used light-
ning voice-changes to depict the
various characters).
“The Queen’s Maries,” the
Scottish legend touching Lady
Hamilton and Mary Queen of
Scots, had a true touch of
poignancy, and “The Fidgity
Bairn” much impish humor.
James Hogg’s “Alister Mac-
allister” was a spot of lilting
cheerfulness.
Nothing better illustrated Miss
Rowe’s versatility than the
portrait of the boozy Mollie
Malone of “A Decent Irish
Body.”
Breffni Hosking used his light
baritone to advantage in a well-
varied group of songs, and Joyce
West made the most difficult
accompaniments look quite easy
with her fluent, alert style.
* ♦ ❖
“A Sleep of Prisoners”
Eliot and Skinner have been
at us for quite a while with varia-
tions on the theme of a crisis
in European civilisation.
Christopher Fry joins them with
“A Sleep of Prisoners.” Eliot
uses a gin-swilling psychiatrist
to diagnose the spiritual ills of
Everyman ; Fry uses a man who
has spent his early days “dung-
ing a marrow-bed.”
Canberra Repertory made a
brilliant attempt to communicate
Fry’s message in their perform-
ance. On a tiny stage Valerie
Baxter’s setting created the
atmosphere of the church in
which the four soldiers are con-
fined as prisoners-of-war, and
Anne Godfrey-Smith made her
usual valuable contribution as
producer. But the great
moments in the production came
from two admirable pieces of
acting.
First, there was Christopher
Power as David King; he made
the most of the beauty in the
poetry, and had that essential
reverence and awe for the great-
ness of the Biblical characters
whom he relives in the dream-
sequences.
George Ogilvie, as Tim
Meadows, was almost as good.
If one can stomach the idea that
the spiritual truths are in the
hearts of the men who dung
marrow-beds, one could greatly
enjoy Ogilvie’s interpretation.
The other two did not reach
such heights. Hugh Dunn, as
Peter Able, showed a feeling for
the words, but just lacked in the
necessary histrionic gifts. Hugh
Hudson, too, as Joseph Adams,
though competent, did not quite
create a character —although a
reading of the text indicates that
the fault is more with Fry than
Hudson.
M. C.
*l* ❖
“Love in Albania”
Brisbane Repertory Theatre
chose Eric Linklater’s “Love in
Albania” to end the year’s pro-
ductions an unrewarding
choice for audience and actors.
The plot is concerned with
poking fun at national types,
particularly the U.S. soldier.
A gum-chewing, monosyllabic
representative of the Army chases
over London in search of the
man he suspects of having
murdered his daughter in an
obscure Albanian sector of the
war, the pair being members of
the underground forces.
Finding his man in a fashion-
able flat during a night of the
London blitz, the soldier nails-up
the doors and settles down for
the play’s three acts with some
whisky and a .45 to work out
whether one murder deserves
another. But his soft-hearted
malice melts before the argu-
ments and explanations of the
normal inhabitants of the place,
particularly Gwen Wheeler, as
the flat’s bored mistress, and
Joyce Elliott, as a maid whose
A.R.P. experiences and fondness
for showing her scars of battle
provide mild slapstick.
Producer Gloria Birdwood
Smith just managed to win her
tussle with Linklater’s thin plot
and faded war-time humor, but
there were moments in the third
act when one wished for some-
one new to burst upon the stage.
As it is a long time since Bris-
bane has had any Shaw, this
company might well try out its
considerable talents in a play
where there will be no lack of
masterly dialogue.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
Arthur Boyd
In his latest exhibition at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Melbourne,
Arthur Boyd has turned to
sculpture in a big way. The
pieces are large and of terra-
cotta ; a big kiln had to be built
to burn them, intense heat being
needed to fire the oxide colors
into the terracotta to ensure
complete permanency in open-air
conditions.
A lot of experiment and
practice had to go into this
effort, and it seems a pity that
so much industry, allied with so
much talent, should have pro-
duced so little aesthetically that
all one can say is that Picasso,
and not the artist’s observation,
dictated the queer, distorted
forms.
Some of the artist’s feeling for
surfaces, which he shows in his
paintings, has come into the
glazes, which aren’t as polished
and monotonous as those of most
contemporary potters.
M. G. S.
Talkies
“Woman’s World”
As in “Executive Suite,” the
world of the top business-
executive is here put under the
microscope. A car-magnate,
looking for a general-manager
among three outstanding young
district-managers, invites them,
with their wives, for a round of
shivoos at headquarters.
The plot flows from the
premise that the wives will deter-
mine the issue, and the methods
adopted by each wife for work-
ing on the tycoon make for
some highly diverting comedy.
Handsomely mounted and
colored, the film moves with
speed and derives much from
the polished touches of that
sound director, Jean Negulesco.
Clifton Webb’s slightly tilted
nose assists his easily conjured
air of icy correctness and serene
haughtiness as the big dollar-
fancier.
The contending pairs are Fred
McMurray and Lauren Bacall,
whose marriage is making for
the rocks; Van Heflin and
Arlene Dahl, she greedily
ambitious; and Cornel Wilde
and June Allyson, more con-
cerned with domestic happiness
than with the prospect of his
developing a bigger and better
crop of ulcers. At Sydney
Mayfair.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Brigadoon”
A gentle charm pervades
M.-G.-M.’s screen version of the
Lerner-Loewe musical about the
two Americans who stumble on
a legendary Scottish hamlet
which only materialises out of
the limbo for one day in every
hundred years. The film is
notable for some graceful danc-
ing by Cyd Charisse and Gene
Kelly, who devised the admir-
able choreography, and for the
sets, which lend an air of
unreality, germane to the plot,
to the surrounding scenery.
Barry Jones, as the dominie
who takes charge of the
village’s spiritual affairs after
the mysterious disappearance of
the meenister, mixes an easy
dignity with a dry and whimsi-
cal humor. Van Johnson as the
bibulous Yank who tags along
with his smitten buddie just
coasts through the role. At
Sydney St. James.
“Susan Slept Here”
A seemingly disinterested
script-writer, bachelor and
fortyish, has a delinquent 17-
year-old girl share his flat over
Christmas so that he may observe
her reactions for professional
purposes. The action is con-
fined mostly to the flat-owner
walking from one gorgeously
furnished room to another,
fixing himself a noggin or
answering a phone. The denoue-
ment telegraphs its intentions in
the first 10 minutes.
Dick Powell pursues his now-
stereotyped line of mixing stern-
ness with tolerance, and Debbie
Reynolds is the wickedly
innocent one with the adoring
look. At Sydney Century.
&
“Magnificent Obsession”
(State): Overemotionalised
version of the Lloyd Douglas
story. Good work from Jane
Wyman and Otto Kruger.
“The Little World of Don
Camillo” (Paris): French comedy
about a feud between an Italian
village priest and the Com-
munist mayor. French comedian
Fernandel works hard, but
doesn’t quite make it.


Medicine Man
By E.O. Schlunke.
THE most progressive doctor
in the large country town is
famous for owning a car
which begins to move as
soon as he opens the door, and
comes to a stop of its own accord
after he has leapt out A bright-
eyed, fast-moving, quick-talking
man who can’t refrain from
answering the questions he shoots
at his patients. He looks at the
man he has in his consulting-
room, a trifle amused, more than
a trifle impatient.
“So you still have migraine?”
A difficult patient who is going
to delay him and break up his
put-out-your-tongue, give-this-
to - the - chemist, next - patient-
please chain-system.
“Yes, doc.,” says Bonnington,
in the deliberate manner of the
town’s most successful estate-
agent ; passing his hand over his
sore head and taking his time
about it, “it’s awful. It cuts down
my efficiency fifty per cent. A
businessman has to have a clear
head or he’s no use whatever.
Some days I can’t do a thing. I
wake up in the morning feeling
as if a nail was being driven into
my brain —just the time of the
day when I ought to be at my
best. I tell you, it’s getting me
down.”
He looks at the doctor, who is
squirming in his chair as though
Time were prodding him in the
back with the point of his scythe.
“It used to be neuritis, or liver
trouble, or dyspepsia,” the
doctor says, taking a fine, objec-
tive view of the human-race.
“Someone gets something they
think is new, and all the other
neurotics go rushing to their
doctors with the same symptoms.
Always those ailments that don’t
lend themselves to clear
diagnosis. Things you can’t
X-ray or feel with your hand,
things that don’t show up in a
cardiograph or in a urine-test.”
The patient looks at him, dis-
appointed and half-offended.
“By hell, it’s as real as the
appendicitis or the gallstones or
any of the other things you’ve
operated for on me. And the
nausea, too. There’s nothing
imaginary about that. Vomiting
for half a day sometimes.”
The doctor has been riffling
through a file of cards, only half-
listening. He reads from one:
“You’ve got none of the
physical causes of headaches;
no infected sinuses, no cerebral
tumors, no eye or kidney trouble.
I’ve given you phenobarbital and
prominal and all the pain-
relieving drugs. So as an honest
man all I can tell you is that
you’ve either got something I
can’t find, or you’re just imagin-
ing there’s something wrong with
you. You can take your pick.”
r T'HE cynical look in his eye
leaves no doubt about his
own opinion. Bonnington looks
at him, incredulous of the
effrontery. He controls his
temper only because he has a
good deal more to say and he
feels a bit embarrassed about it.
“Haven’t you heard that there
are psychological causes of
headaches? Do you think it
might be something like that?
I put an awful lot into my work ;
I might be overdoing it. Half
my time I’m interviewing three
clients at once, one in my office,
one on the local phone, one on
the long-distance, and at the
same time dictating to my
secretary and directing my
deputy. And then I have trouble
in my home, too. Grown-up
children wanting to have a fling,
and my wife putting her foot in
it again, this time threatened with
a slander-action because of
something she’s supposed to have
said about the neighbor’s wife.”
At this information the
doctor’s eyes light up with
interest for the first time. He
cannot conceal the pleasure he
feels in Mrs. Bennington's
misfortune.
“A big claim for damages?”
he wants to know. “Was it the
woman’s morals she was
maligning? I believe that if she’s
said the woman does ij; for fun,
it’s a civil case ; but if she’s said
she does it for money, it’s a
criminal case and she could be
sent to jail.”
Now Bennington rises to his
feet in a rage.
“We’ll keep Mrs. Bennington’s
name out of this,” he says, forget-
ting that it was he who brought
it in. “I can look after her and
I can look after myself. And as
for you ; you’re going to lose a
customer. Everybody’s been
telling me about how they’ve
had their migraine cured after
all the doctors in the town have
failed. A chap who takes a
room at the School of Arts does
it. He hits them on the back of
the neck and their migraine's
gone for ever. It’s as simple as
that; yet you couldn’t do it!”
The doctor assumes that con-
temptuous smile which all
qualified men put on as soon as
quackery is mentioned, but when
the estate-agent slams the door
the smile goes. He has heard
about this spine-manipulator,
though not so directly, and he
can’t evade the evidence of his
appointment-book that his
practice is declining.
A S soon as the doctor has his
first foot in his house his
wife’s voice comes to meet him
with all the force of right
triumphant.
“Ashley’s temperature is a
hundred-and-four. Didn’t I tell
you it wasn’t just a cold?”
The doctor goes and looks at
the child in his cot. He refuses
to be impressed. His wife holds
the thermometer in front of his
eyes where he can’t avoid seeing
it.
“How do you use
thermometers?” he asks, with a
barely concealed sneer in his
voice. “Do you sterilise them in
boiling water first and then
neglect to shake them down?”
His wife looks as if the only
reason why she doesn’t stab the
thermometer into her husband’s
eye is because it isn’t big enough
or sharp enough. She gives a
wail of anguish, clasps her head
in her hands and cries;
“I can’t stand it any more.
I’ll have to do something. I’ll
go away and never come back.
Nothing but housework and sick
children. Housework and sick
children.”
The doctor looks at her dis-
traught face with interest. He
advances and takes her left hand.
She looks surprised until she
finds that he only intends to feel
her pulse. She wrenches
violently, even attempts to bite
his hand, until he frees her.
“It’s my head,” she says, “it
drives me mad. Day after day,
and what do you care? You
run if Mrs. Dalrymple or Mrs.
Shormann has the tiniest ache or
pain. But not a move if it’s your
own wife or your own family.
We’re real shoemaker’s children,
we are; we go barefoot all the
time.”
The doctor puts his arm round
his wife, leads her to a chair and
says:
“He’ll be all right. Give him
an aspirin-tablet every four
hours. But tell me about your-
self. How long have you been
getting these headaches? Do
they come in the morning or the
afternoon? Don’t they respond
to aspirin?”
“I’ve told you all about them
before,” she says, not nearly
mollified. “It’s the real migraine
that you’d take seriously enough
if anyone else had it. I have it
when I wake up in the morning.
It feels as if my skull is crushing
my brain.”
She keeps on talking quickly
so that he can’t interrupt her.
Then the telephone rings. He
makes an angry gesture, mutters
“bloody, bloody,” nevertheless
he is on his way to answer it
like a tied automation. A few
minutes later his voice and the
bang of the door come to her.
“Called to hospital. Accident
case.”
His wife puts on an expres-
sion tragic and grim, but since
no one is there to see it, she lets
her face relax, gives the child
an aspirin-tablet with much
loving coaxing, then goes to lie
on her bed.
the doctor’s wife has
* * visitors, he creeps in by the
back way so that they can’t see
him and tell him their symptoms
for nothing. He believes it is the
visitors and not her family
responsibilities which wear out
his wife, but she’ll never take his
advice about how to dispense
with them.
A lady is there with a loud
voice which he recognises as
belonging to Mrs, Bonnington,
the wife of his estate-agent, ex-
patient ; the lady threatened —
very justly, he is sure—with an
action for slander. She is talking
in that delicious, sugar-coated
way that some women employ
when they have an undeniable
advantage.
“I really shouldn’t tell you
this; in your position; but I’m
only doing it for your good. /
know what migraine is, after
having a husband suffering with
it for years. It’s just unendur-
able ; that's why I’m telling you
this. I know that your husband
gives you all the relief and
attention he can, and I’m sure he
did his best with Arnold, too.
But if you don’t really mind me
telling you, I don’t think your
husband is at his best with
migraine . . . Mind you, if I
had anything else terribly wrong
with me, like a ruptured
appendix, I’d fly to your husband
with the most perfect confidence.
But migraine ? No, not
migraine !"
The doctor steals a look at
her, the whole tall, stout, silken-
dad, scented, triumphantly grin-
ning, two hundredweight of her ;
he longs, unbearably, that she
should soon come flying to him
with something terribly, some-
thing desperately, wrong with
her. She goes on, talking down
to the doctor’s thin and suffering
wife.
“Now, this is the part that’s
really hard to tell you, but I
must go on, now that I’ve said
so much. Do you know how
Arnold got himself cured after
your husband had failed? He
went to that man who takes a
room at the School of Arts. I
know you’ll be thinking Quack.
That’s what I used to think, too.
But everybody was praising him
so much for curing them of all
the things none of the real
doctors could cure (I don’t mean
your husband only, you know;
all the other doctors just as much
or more). Well, the man X-rayed
him, found it was just one of the
vertebrce in the back of his neck
that was protruding and out of
line with the rest. So he pushed
it back into place and the
migraine disappeared. Mind
you, it wasn’t easy to put back.
The man had to use all his
strength. He warned Arnold
quite seriously that he was even
risking his life, but Arnold told
him, “Go ahead, anything is
better than these terrible
headaches.”
“Oh, that sounds a bit
fantastic, really,” the doctor’s
wife says. He can tell by the
quantity of culture in her voice
just how much she hates Mrs.
Bonnington and her septic
manner. “After all, how does
he know he’s really cured?
Migraine is so unaccountable.
It may disappear for months, and
just when you’re congratulating
yourself that it’s gone for ever,
it’s back and hits you harder
than before.”
“Oh, no, it’s not like that,” the
sweetly uncontradictable voice
comes back. “Arnold is a new
man. He’s never felt so well
before in his life, and believe
me, I have reasons for knowing
it. And it’s the same with all the
other people he’s cured. You
really ought to go and see that
man. He’ll tell you your brain
is really like a battery and the
nerves are like electric wires,
running from the brain down the
spine to all parts of the body.
All your vital force flows along
them, and if any of your
vertebras are out of place it’s like
a in your car; some
part of your body suffers. You
get heat instead of power. That
heat is your migraine. He finds
out where the trouble is on your
spine with an electricity meter
like they test batteries with. You
can read all about it in his book.
The Secret of Life, it’s called.
And that’s what Arnold says it
is, too, The Secret of Life. I’ll
leave it with you. You get your
husband to read it, too. He
might learn something useful out
of it.”
“Of course,” the doctor’s wife
says, in her special manner that
goes with an honors-degree in
Arts, “the quacks thrive on those
neurotics who only imagine
they’re ill. My husband tells
me he’s had countless people who
swear they have the symptoms
of popular diseases, but X-ray
and other scientific tests prove
they couldn’t have anything of
the sort. Why, there was one
man in such agony they had to
anaesthetise him to stop him from
dying. But when they opened
him up, there wasn’t the slightest
thing wrong where he claimed
to have the pains. Yet as soon
as he recovered from the
anaesthesia, he immediately got
such a look of tremendous relief
on his face, that they didn’t tell
him they’d done nothing but slit
him open and sew him up again.
For years and years now that
man has been boasting about
how his life was saved, and how
he’s been a new man ever since.
But, of course, we’re far too
honest to do that sort of thing
deliberately.”
The doctor feels so pleased
with his wife that he takes a peep
at her while she is talking.
Although her voice is so definite
and convincing he sees that she is
running one hand up and down
the back of her neck, and press-
ing hard on the protruding
cervical vertebrae. A look of
doubt and wonder is coming in
her face, not unnoticed by Mrs.
Bonnington,
“I still say you ought to go,”
says Mrs. Bonnington. “Seeing
is believing. I’ve seen, that’s
why I believe. You can’t get
past that, no matter how hard
you try to ridicule it.”
Now the visitor is being shown
out, with the doctor’s heartiest
approval. The hostess’s voice
comes to him, pitched higher and
farther to get in the last word:
“Even if I was in a position to
consult him, which I certainly
am not, I’d never demean
myself by consulting a quack.”
She puts at least three con-
secutive “a’s” into the last word
to carry all the contempt she
feels; then adds a little tinkling
artificial laugh that should ring
funeral-bells for all charlatans.
'THE doctor steps into the
lounge-room, eager to thank
his wife as soon as she returns
from the front door; to make
quite a fuss of her, in fact; even
to fondle and kiss her a bit for
once, because she deserves it.
But she does not come back that
way. He hears her next at the
telephone. Something secretive
about her voice impels him to
creep to the door and listen. She
is using her B.A. accent and
inclined to be most con-
descending.
“Are you the man who cures
migraine by manipulating the
vertebrae? . . . Yes, yes, so I’ve
been told, but it’s only migraine
I’m interested in. I suffer from
it fearfully . . . Well, well, it’s
encouraging to hear you say
that, but there are very particular
reasons why I don’t want to be
seen going into your consulting-
rooms . . . Well, I’m so glad
you’re used to that sort of thing.
Yes, seven-thirty will do, it will
be nice and dark by then . . .
That’s right, I know that side-
door. Thank you very much ...
No, I’m sorry I can’t tell you my
name either . . . All right, I’m
glad you can cure me without
knowing that.”
At the end of the conversation
there is a definite warmth coming
into her voice. The doctor, for
all his astonishment and anger,
cannot but pause a moment to
admire a professional manner
that works so miraculously even
over a telephone-line.
When he hears her coming,
instead of facing her in righteous
anger, he slides away, too
conscious of the eavesdropping
he has been doing. He needs
time to think the situation over,
so he tells himself. He really
can’t believe that his wife should
have so little faith in him and
the whole institution of qualified


medical practitioners that he
represents. Sitting discon-
solately in his den his mind gets
to work rationalising his retreat.
Let her go and consult her
charlatan. Let her go like all
those others who creep secretly
to the quack, and who never say
a word about it when he fails to
cure them, because they are
ashamed of themselves. That
vast majority of dupes who
continue to be robbed of their
money just because a few
neurotics who have nothing
wrong with them, like Bon-
nington, go about boasting, just
to spite the medical profession.
His confidence rises as he
recalls the House of Lords
inquiry into the qualifications of
these manipulators. How they
couldn’t tell from an X-ray
whether a spine was fractured or
not; couldn’t even, in fact, name
the part of the body in which
certain glands, which featured
largely in their patter, were
situated. No matter how badly
her head is aching she will
recognise their theories and
practices for the arrant rubbish
they are.
The backswing of his anger
and despondency carries him past
the neutral point. He begins to
wonder why his wife wasn’t
revolted when she was speaking
to the charlatan over the phone.
Then suddenly, to explain that,
he stumbles on to what must be
the illuminating solution. His
wife, that incalculable woman,
true despite appearances to him
and the 8.M.A., has planned a
deliberate trap for the quack.
Not only to show Mrs. Bon-
nington that a genuine migraine
cannot be cured by quackery,
but to learn for herself all the
dubious methods used to hood-
wink the ignorant public, so that
she can ridicule them when next
Mrs. Bonnington presumes to
speak to her.
It is a delightful explanation.
He has an impulse to rush to find
her. To tell her how he has been
eavesdropping, and was deceived
into a woeful misinterpretation
of her actions. Let her laugh at
him for once, for almost making
a fool of himself. Use this
incident to restore domestic bliss,
then lend her his invaluable
assistance in plotting a complete
exposure of the “quaaack!”
He is on his feet, and on his
way, when he is startled by
childish screams, his wife’s run-
ning footsteps, and her voice in
its tragic manner.
“Oh, Ashley, why did you have
to play with that lawnmower?
There you’ve cut your finger
nearly right off. Now I’ll have to
bathe it and dress it four times
a day for weeks. As if I didn’t
have enough to split my poor
head without this. Now stop
that silly crying while I bandage
you. And don’t expect your
father to come to our assistance.
He only helps other people’s
children, and other men’s wives.
If we want any help or sympathy,
we have to go to a quack.”
The warm, almost sentimental
mood that has been welling-up
in the doctor’s soul is drained
away abruptly. He pauses to
adjust himself to the hard
realities of his life. He composes
his face into professional lines,
then goes out to see what his
wife is doing for his child. She
looks up from her bandaging—
raw trainee-nurse style—and
gives the boy a motherly hug.
“The only parent who loves
you,” it says.
"11S7HEN the doctor locks his
* ’ surgery door he remembers
that he has promised to pick up
his wife from the Annual Flower
Show on his way home. He
remembers all the better because
this day is in the nature of a
climax for him.
For several weeks he has been
studying his wife, waiting for
her migraine to strike her again;
saying nothing to her about it
and being told nothing either.
Always remembering, when she
seemed to be bearing-up under
her troubles with surprising forti-
tude and good humor (and grin-
ning inwardly at the thought of
it), how her responsibilities in
organising the flower - show
always prostrate her.
Two or three days in bed to
get over the major attack it
invariably brings on. Un-
doubtedly self-inflicted by her
neurotic nature, but having this
difference from her usual run of
headaches, that they come upon
her simultaneously with her
troubles, and are obviously due
to an “evasion motive.”
Whereas she has no desire to
evade her flower-show responsi-
bilities, glorying rather in the
social prominence it brings her,
the headache which strikes her
down when the show is over and
her day’s work done could very
well be genuine migraine ; fitting
in very well with the new
“release phenomenon” theory
which those doctors leaning
towards psychiatry have
developed.
He has two hypodermic-
syringes in his bag, so no one
could charge him with being
inhuman; one containing
gynergin and one pethydine, to
give her prolonged and
immediate relief respectively;
ready to plunge into her thigh as
soon as he has carried her into
his house. He could feel sorry
for her if it wasn’t going to be
such a good thing for him. For
years, each time he had called
for her, he had found her writh-
ing in an armchair, receiving
cups of tea, aspirin and cold
compresses from some of the
women, while others called to her
sympathetically:
“Don’t you worry about a
thing. Everything is finished
now. You just relax if you can,
until your husband comes for
you.”
An ambulance he’ll get for her
this time, and a big show of
indignation at the hall, that will
have all the necks stretching after
her as she is driven away. A
word or two whispered in the
right place, so that the story that
follows the ambulance will be:
“It’s Mrs. Dodd, the North-
street doctor’s wife. She sneaked
round to the chiropractor to get
her migraine cured and he nearly
killed her.”
He steps briskly into the hall.
There seems to be less noise and
turmoil than usual at this hour,
when all the women and their
male helpers are packing-up.
His heart gives a little leap of
pure joy; if the flower-show
crowd is hushed in sympathy,
then she must be more than half-
dead. His eyes turn to the corner
where her armchair is usually
set. No chair and no wife. Then
he hears a voice which he hardly
recognises as hers, because it is
so different from what he has
been expecting:
“Mrs. Weymouth, the roses;
Mrs. Scott, the vegetables ; Miss
Symons, the list of prizewinners
for the press ; Mr. Croaker, the
ladder to take down the
decorations.”
People are flitting about with
noiseless, oiled efficiency ; as a
volunteer crowd does only when
it has a vast respect for a perfect
organiser who has everything
under complete control.
The doctor becomes aware of
a breathing, silk-clad, scented,
soft and warm object against his
side. It is Mrs. Bonnington, and
if her smile had in it one more
degree of archness, it would be
fatal for her.
“Isn’t your wife just
wonderful? She seems to be
completely cured of her migraine.
Now I just wonder who it was
that cured her. Tell me, Doctor,
was it you ?’’
Her eyes are on his face, daring
him to soil his reputation by
saying either “yes” or “no.”
Rarely does a woman get such
an opportunity to revenge herself
upon a man who has rejoiced in
her slander-actions and who has
called her husband a neurotic
fool.
C'EVEN-THIRTY again, and
dark enough for a man who
does not want to be identified to
visit the chiropractor. The man
slips in the side-door dressed in
old gardening clothes from which
he hopes all trace of anaesthetic
has long departed.
“I’ve got a terrible headache,”
he says (and it’s true, too). “Can
you cure it?”
Then he has a good look at
the chiropractor. Not at all the
sort of man he expected from
reading the B.M.A. journal; by
no means the type who could be
travelling the country shows,
roaring raucously outside a tent
about his Indian snake-charmer,
or his unclad lovelies within.
An austere-looking man, very
tall and strong, with dark, pierc-
ing eyes deeply sunken in his
head ; longish black hair combed
round the sides in heavy layers
and sombre clothes. A man who
would make an impression any-
where, with his air of quiet
dignity.
He rises slowly and takes his
visitor’s hand. He holds it firmly
while gazing earnestly into his
eyes. At last he says: “Please
sit down,” in a smooth, mellow
voice. It seems almost as if he
had said, “Peace be with you.”
“Yes, I can cure your head-
ache,” he goes on, quietly but
with unquestionable confidence.
The patient makes his first
mental note. Only a quack
would give an unqualified assur-
ance that he can cure a headache.
“Tell me about yourself,” the
man says next, after he has
settled his patient into a comfort-
able armchair; he looks as if
he’d love to listen all night.
The patient is not taken-in by
this spurious pose of sympathy.
He has read Mrs. Bonnington’s
booklet, The Secret of Life, and
is ready for anything. He has a
steel band round the inside of
his shirt collar, to check whether
the man really shows his patients
a genuine X-ray of their own
cervical vertebrae, or just a
doctored one to impress them.
He also has a wire running under
“ Don't tell me THAT’S not favoritism!”
his coat collar, that will make
any gauge the man uses on the
back of his neck register a
similar reaction on a little meter
he is wearing as a wrist-watch.
Now, he thinks to himself, let
the charlatan bring out his
“neurocalometer” that can show
where a “sublaxation of the
vertebrae” is holding up the
passage of the “neuro-electric-
mental-impulse-force” and thus
interfering with the work of
“superconscious - innate - intel-
ligence” ! Let him bring out his
X-ray which shows everybody
with a spine so disjointed that
death immediate and permanent
is the only indication a qualified
man could read from it.
The man says to him in his
dark, velvety voice.
“You look tired. Do you
work very hard?”
The doctor, like Bonnington,
cannot resist the impulse to
boast about it.
“I’m never sure of getting any
rest, night or day,”
“Ah,” the man says, “and you
look worried, too. Have you
had any setbacks in your pro-
fession lately?”
The doctor sees a trap and
remains cautiously silent, but
taking everything in. Particu-
larly the size and strength of the
man; his hands with work-
flattened spatulate fingers, which
by their appearance alone seem
to ridicule the B.M.A. assertion:
“It is a physical impossibility to
adjust a displaced veretbrae with
the strength of the human hand.”
He begins to feel a little uneasy
at being shut up here with this
kind of man whose prestige he
is plotting to destroy: “Who
knows how ruthless he might be
with those steam-shovel hands
of his? He decides on a bold
move to try to force him into
an admission.
“So,” he says, “first you give
an unqualified assurance that you
can cure your patients of any-
thing ; then you try to win their
confidence by encouraging them
to talk freely about themselves.
What does all that build up to?”
THE chiropractor looks at him
in mild surprise, then smiles
and quickly adapts himself to
the situation.
“The oldest Christian church,”
he says, “knows the value of
allowing people to unburden
themselves of their troubles.
You’ll find very few psychopaths
among their adherents; and not
many cases of migraine either.”
The doctor would be abashed
if he didn’t have such a low
opinion of quacks. He comes
back at him quickly: “You’re a
faith-healer then! But how do
you get on with all the people
who don’t have any faith?”
“Everybody has faith,” the
chiropractor says, smiling rather
patronisingly. “If it isn’t in
God it is in something else.
Science, for instance. Mostly in
science these days; that’s why I
carry these scientific instruments
with me. For instance, this
neurocalometer, which I place
on their necks, thus.”
He has jabbed it hard on the
back of the doctor’s neck, and
whisked it off again before he can
even think of his concealed
meter.
“Hm,” he says, looking at the
dial, “what an astonishing sub-
laxation you must have.”
“Let me see,” the doctor
stretches out his hand for the
neurocalometer, but the brief
flash he is allowed of it only
shows him an ordinary-looking
two-prong meter with the needle
returned to zero. But it does
actually bear the extraordinary
and laugh-provoking name
Neurocalometer engraved upon
it.
The doctor sneers :
“Do you really think you can
find out anything with that, or
is it all eyewash?”
The chiropractor says, seri-
ously, “With the aid of that I
have cured many chronic
sufferers in this town. People
whom the so-called qualified
medical men have failed to cure.
What do you think of that?”
The doctor suspects that the
fellow has guessed what he is,
and is having a dig at him. So
he answers sharply:
“Just weak-willed neurotics
who give themselves headaches
because they don’t want to face
their responsibilities,”
“But to them the pain is real!
And when it is removed they are
capable of facing their diffi-
culties. There is an estate-agent
in this town who has told me
that he has not only doubled his
business since I cured him of
migraine, but has restored order
in his family as well. Do you
know anything about him?”
“He’ll soon get some new
headaches unless you remove his
wife’s power of speech,” the
doctor says, bitterly. Then, to
avoid giving himself away com-
pletely, he goes on quickly,
“Now, what about taking an
X-ray of me? I’d like to see
that remarkable ‘sublaxation*
you’ve discovered with your
‘neurocalometer’.”
“You know something about
X-ray?” the yhiropractor asks
pleasantly.
“Never saw one before in my
life! ”
“Oh,* dear,” says the chiro-
practor, quite worried by the
doctor's fib. “Well, come along
and sit over here on this chair.
You’ll think this is a very old
type of X-ray, but it does what
I require.”
It certainly looks quite
obsolete to the doctor ; a very
Model-T of X-rays. Now he
watches everything keenly, and
listens to the chiropractor,
certain that he’ll catch him.
“A little more to the right.
Now open your mouth wide and
keep it open until I tell you.
That’s it. Good. Now one from
the side ; a little more forward.
That’s it again. Thank you.”
“Well,” says the doctor, get-
ting ready to gloat, “how long
will it take you to develop it?
Only a few minutes, I believe.”
The chiropractor looks at him
frankly, “Ah, now. I’m sorry
I’ll have to disappoint you. I’ve
run right out of my developing-
mixture. I’ve had such a rush
of patients today, I’ve used it
all up.”
The doctor begins to think
furiously.
“Look,” he says, “I believe
I can help you. I know a man
in the town who’ll be only too
happy to do it for you. He
knows a lot about X-rays. You
just hand the film to me and I’ll
be back presently.” He can
hardly refrain from holding out
his hands for it, so eager is he to
obtain some black-and-white
evidence.
“But, sir!” the chiropractor
reproaches him, “you should
know that in the ancient temples
of the Greek oracles, there was
only the oracle, the priest and
the supplicant. There could be
no passing from hand to vulgar
hand of the sacred signs. The
X-ray is our modern oracle; its
films must remain inviolate.
Once there is interference by
outside hands, fakings and
accusations, what becomes of the
faith of the public? That, above
all, you and I must preserve.”
He extends his hand in fare-
well. “Bye, bye,” he says as he
leads the doctor to the door.
“Till we meet again,” without
any suggestion of making a
definite appointment.
When the doctor reaches his
car, parked a block away for
safety, he surprises himself by
thinking, “Nice fellow, that.
And smart, too.”
Then he suddenly finds that
his headache has gone.
ANYONE who wants to
*** consult that country doctor
now will have to take a trip to
Sydney, and look for one of the
biggest buildings in Macquarie-
street where some of the best
specialists are situated. He is a
specialist also now, devoting
himself, surprisingly enough, to
something he had little success
in previously, the cure of
migraine.
A bit of a mystery to the other
specialists, whose curiosity is so
great that they force themselves
upon his hospitality trying to find
out his methods; who make the
(Continued on page 24)


Life is real, life is earnest
By Nancy Cato
AS she walked along the
terrace in the shade of the
feathery green elm-trees,
Molly Crompton looked
at the intimate curve of friendly
hills closing in the perspective,
and for once did not wish that
she could be somewhere on top
of those hills, far from the noisy
city. This morning her mind was
all on her job.
She had, she believed, the
promise of a scoop which would
make the rival roundsman on the
“Register,” the morning daily,
gnash his teeth. A very young
resident, just through his med.
course, with whom she sometimes
went out, had let fall that the
city’s big public hospital would
be acquiring a fabulously
expensive X-ray plant for the
radiology department, to be the
only one of its kind in Australia.
All she had to do was get
confirmation from the medical
superintendent, through whom
all official news must come. But
getting a story from Dr.
Grantley was like extracting
burrs from wool.
She entered the hospital-
grounds, and made for the main
administrative-block among its
many detached buildings. Just
inside the door was the switch-
board, where she paused to ask
for the latest bulletins on several
accident-victims, and to see if
Dr. Grantley was free. She had
ceased to think of the human
hope or despair covered by the
brief roneoed words beside each
name: Improving . . . Condition
Serious . . . Critical . . . Un-
changed.
“Switchboard” was a thin,
alert young woman who sat
before a bewildering array of
wires and switches, pulling out
plugs, flicking down switches,
talking laconically into a mouth-
piece fixed beyond her chin, and
giving life-or-death replies to
inquiring relatives in the same
unemotional voice. As if this
were not enough to keep her
busy, she always had a roll of
knitting in hex lap.
“Dr. Grantley will see you
now,” she said. “Switchboard.
Switchboard. What ward,
please?”
A/fOLLY went along the flagged
corridor to the medical
superintendent’s room, with the
usual sinking of the heart. She
did not like Dr. Grantley, and
Dr. Grantley hated the press.
They were always asking him
for comments (known to the
editor’s conference as “follow-
ups”) on fantastic cures and
strange devices, usually originat-
ing in the Soviet Union or the
U.SA. His views consisted
always of cynical disbelief; and
he was a busy man.
Molly, who secretly thought
her assignments just as silly as
he did, had often suffered under
his sarcasm ; but she felt that he
had no right to be rude to her
because her job required her to
ask foolish questions.
She passed the door marked
Lay Superintendent and the door
marked Matron, and came to the
one marked Medical Superin-
tendent. Tucking her red curls
nervously under her hat, she
knocked and went in, trying to
look bold and carefree; for
timidity only made him worse.
She knew that she made a cool
and attractive picture in her slim
green dress and wide-brimmed
hat, but as far as Dr. Grantley
was concerned she might as well
have been dressed in flour-sacks.
He gave her one brief, bilious
glance and drew some papers
towards him.
“Sit down, young woman,” he
said rapidly. “I’m very busy.
and haven’t time to worry about
the latest miracle-cure claimed
in America. What wild rumor is
your office pursuing now?”
His small, piercing, intelligent
eyes with their puffy underlids
looked at her coldly. His skin
was pasty and unhealthy-
looking, his mouth a thin line.
She managed to keep out of her
voice the dislike he always roused
in her.
“It’s nothing like that this
time. Dr. Grantley, I heard that
the hospital was getting a new
X-ray plant, and 'I wanted it
officially from you.”
His Mack brows came together
in a sharp frown. “I really fail
to see what that has to do with
the public.”
“But it’s news. And if it’s
true”
“I have nothing to say on the
matter.”
“May I just say that the new
plant includes some of the latest
equipment available, and that
the radiology department will
soon be the most up-to-date in
Australia?”
He glared at her. “Who told
you that?”
“Then it is true! ”
“I have told you I have no
comment. The usual news-
bulletin will be issued by the
lay superintendent after the next,
meeting of the hospital board.”
“Yes, in the ‘Register’s’ time.
What about the ‘Standard’?”
“I am equally indifferent to
both the morning and the
evening papers. Now, if you
don’t mind, I’m busy.”
She flushed and got up,
dropped her pencil and groped
for it on the floor. It had rolled
near the side of his desk, and as
she rose from retrieving it she
saw a brochure, marked with
ink, in a wire-basket, with a
picture of a large, complicated-
looking mechanism. “Latest
deep-therapy equipment”—she
read. But Dr. Grantley was
glaring at her; she turned her
back and marched out.
TTE was impossible, he was get-
ting worse and worse, she
thought. The hateful man, with
his cold, glittering, reptilian
eyes ... If only she were quite
certain of her information she
would print the story without
his consent.
A brilliant idea made her stop
dead ; then she galloped out into
the sunshine and almost ran all
the way back to the office, not
even stopping for her usual
friendly chat with the director of
the art gallery.
As soon as she was free from
routine Molly rushed round to
the den of the women’s-magazine
editress. As she hurried along
the polished corridor a long-
drawn scream sounded from
Roma’s room. As she got to the
door the editress came flying out,
her usually smooth fair hair
almost standing on end, and
crashed into her.
“A cockroach!” she sobbed.
“A horrible, great cockroach in
my files.” And she rushed round
to the dogbox. “Quick, Mr.
Flannigan, send a boy before it
gets away. There’s a great cock-
roach in my room! ”
Freddie Flannigan half-turned
his head, in a bored fashion,
towards the waiting line of boys.
“Mervyn,” he said, “take two
boys and a dog and remove the
dangerous insect from Miss
Richardson’s room.”
“Really, Roma!” said Molly
half-reproachfully. “You gave
me a terrible fright. Listen, I
have something most secret to
tell you. Come up to the roof,
Stan, old girl.”
“All right, Stan. But I have a
double-page spread”
“It can wait.”
The black rubberised roof was
warm, soaking in the late-
summer sunshine. They walked
to the parapet and leaned on the
sun-warm stone, looking across
the jumble of railway-lines to the
lawns and poplars of the river-
bank, where seagulls wheeled
with a flash of white.
“You must promise not to
breathe a word to a soul,” said
Molly impressively.
Roma looked up with her
lovely tragedy-queen eyes. “Of
course, Stan. Now get it off your
chest—such as it is.”
Molly, who was somewhat
thin, leered at Roma’s well-
developed figure. “Well, I’d hate
to have as much on my mind as
you have.”
“Cut the personalities and spill
the story. I have to”
“I know, you have to make up
two pages in half an hour.
Listen, Stan, I’m on to a story—
a real scoop, I believe! ”
“Yes, Stan,” said Roma com-
fortably. “How nice for you.
Oh, this sun is lovely. But it
will make me sleepy, I’m afraid.”
“Wake up and listen, will
you!” cried Molly furiously.
“I’ve nearly got the story, but I
can’t get past Dr. Grantley at
the hospital. You know how he
hates newspapers! The whole
thing is in a paper on his desk, I
saw it there this morning, but
he’s too mean to give it to me.
If I could only get into his room!
But I’m known by sight there,
and he can’t stand me. Now if
only you”
“Me! Good heavens, you
must be cracked! You know
how I like a quiet life.”
“Yes, quietly going out with a
different man every night; I
know,” said Molly with a grin.
“If only .., ! Stan, I’ve got it! ”
“What have you got?”
“Myfanwy! You know what
a good actress she is ; she’s in all
the Little Theatre productions.
And you know how well she
takes off the general-manager?
Now if she ...” And she began
to outline her plan. Roma
listened with interest, but shook
her head.
“You’d never get her to do
it.”
“But we could make it a bet.
You know how she loves to
gamble. We’ll bet her five
pounds; you lend me two pounds
ten, and I’ll pay you back next
week.”
“All right,” said Roma,
resignedly.
V|YFANWY, the social-
editress, loved a good story,
whether low, apocryphal or
authentic, and as soon as she got
her teeth into one would make
the round of the office, carrying
it into room after room, from
which the gruff bark of her
laughter echoed.
If she were successful in carry-
ing out Molly’s plan, she would
have a story that would last for
weeks; also, as an ardent
journalist, she didn’t want to see
the “Register” get the scoop.
“Roma and I are willing to
bet five pounds you can’t do it,”
said Molly eagerly, when she had
got Myfanwy away from her
junior assistant and into a quiet
corner of the corridor. “You’ll
never get away with it,” she
added, knowing that this would
put Myfanwy on her mettle.
“I could do it all right, my
dear child, but it’s damn’ risky.
I might get jailed or something.”
“But we’d come forward and
explain that it was all done for
a bet.”
“He’ll be furious if I get the
dope and you print it.”
“Of course he will, but he
can’t do much about it once it’s
appeared. And he couldn’t get
any more unhelpful than he is
already.”
“That’s true. Ungracious
beggar; always was. God! I
hope I don’t meet him face to
face.”
“Then you’ll do it? Hooray! ”
“I’ll do it tomorrow. But
you’ll have to look after the
social-room.”
“Right. The superintendent
makes his round of the wards
between ten and eleven —you’ll
be quite safe then.”
Myfanwy chewed her long
cigarette-holder in her large
teeth.
“Hrmph! I hope so. I say,
did you see that lovely misprint
in the ‘Register’ this morning?
‘Among the spectators was Mrs.
Arthur MacTennant in a beige
lust-coat.’ Hah!”
And Myfanwy stumped off
down the corridor in her flat-
heeled shoes, trailing a long
streamer of smoke.
morning Myfanwy’s car
swung away from the
parking - area outside the
“Standard” office with a square-
faced, large-bosomed figure in
nurse’s uniform at the wheel.
Two pairs of stockings, her own
and Molly’s, had been necessary
to pad out Myfanwy’s mannish
front.
Molly meanwhile sat in the
social-room typing out block-
lines, with her bare legs twined
together under the table. It was
surprising how naked one felt in
an office without stockings.
There was a timid knock at the
door, and a large, black-haired,
beefy-faced woman edged into
the room, drawing after her a
bashful younger edition of
herself.
“Me daughter’s ge 11 in’
married,” she said, and stopped,
as if she had just announced the
most world-shaking news since
the relief of Mafeking.
“Yes?” said Molly politely.
“I’d like her pitcher in the
paper.” And with the air of a
conjuror she produced a shiny
studio-portrait, and laid it on
the ta v ble reverently. It had a
faint resemblance, in general
outline, to the daughter, but the
cheeks had been visibly thinned
by a process of scraping, the lips
had been altered to make an
exact Cupid’s bow, and long,
lustrous eyebrows and lashes had
been pencilled in.
“Well ...” said Molly, “I’m
afraid I can’t promise . . . We
have so little space, you see.” She
Tried the beaming, falsely genial
smile that Myfanwy used on
hopeless cases, but the woman
was unmoved.
“We’d like ’er pitcher in the
paper. We’ve told all ’er friends
to look for it. We alwus buy
the ‘Standard.’ ”
“Yes, well, just leave it and
I’ll see what can be done.”
“And what about a reporter
at the wedding?”
“Oh, yes, now if you’ll just fill-
in one of these forms . . . There
are printed headings, you see,
and all you do is fill in the details
on the dotted lines, and return to
this office not later than the
Wednesday before the wedding.
It’s on a Saturday, I suppose?”
“Yes. Doris is ’aving four
bridesmaids and a little flower-
girl.”
“How nice.” Molly repressed
SONG OF WATER
The years have crept by in their millions while I sought
peace,
Far away in the twiKt ages I waited and looked for release
From my bondage, my slavery, my curse of perpetual motion
From the lake to the hill, to the air, to the brook, to the
ocean;
I am a poem begun, ended, and again and again,
Beginning and ending, flying from plane to plane;
Here I murmur, here I sigh, and now I thunder
As I gnaw at my rims of rock and am rent asunder
And tossed aloft in flakes and a scatter of spume,
A rhythm resolving, a theme ever changing, such is my
doom,
Now I am visible, now invisible, melted to air.
No eye can see, no ear hear me yet I am there
On torrents of wind invisibly borne, now up, now down,
Whirled in great circles, gliding in silence or madly blown
Half round the earth, from torrid to frigid climes,
Half round, all round the globe a million times;
Many voices I have, from a faint susurrus, a sighing
Of dreaming levels and league-long ripples dying
On wrinkled sands, to the huge bombastic roar
Of billows reluctant, furiously driven ashore.
And clamant cataracts falling, madly spilling,
Sliding from mountain ledges, and gustily filling
The naked rock-walled valleys with mists and a shroud,
And a nimbus of wafted spray, the wraith of a cloud,
That settles on frond and blade like moths at the break of
day.
And defies the sword of the sun and his potent ray;
Now the only semblance of peace and a brief cessation
Of my wandering through the halls and aisles of creation
Is here in the frozen wastes, in the berg and the floe
Of the polar realms, and the mantle of ghostly snow
Where I go aspiring skywards in needles of ice
Translucent and blinding blue in the lifeless skies.
NEW ZEALAND.
ARNOLD WALL.


A YEAR OF SPLENDID ACHIEVEMENT!
Assurances in Force
now exceed £300,000,000
The 78th Annual Report of the T. & G. Mutual Life Society reveals a year
of great progress
NEW POLICIES
The public in Australia and New Zealand again
demonstrated its confidence in the T. & G. by taking
out a record amount of assurance during the year.
1 12,659 new Life Policies assuring £42,585,459 and
13,742 Personal Accident and Sickness Policies were
issued, while 37,189 Life Policies were endorsed with
Accident Benefits for £15,942,675.
ASSURANCES
IN FORCE
The Assurances in Force
exceed £300,000,000.
That the T. & G. has
been entrusted with the re-
sponsibility of providing
this great mantle of pro-
tection is striking evidence
of the esteem in which the
Society is held.
Head Office
Melbourne
INCOME
The Income for the year increased by more than
£1,380,000 to the record total of £17,350,000.
SERVICE
The Society places the greatest importance on render-
ing the maximum service to its members. All claims are
settled promptly. During the year £6,706,000 was
paid to policyholders, making a total of more than
£47,686,000 during the last ten years.
SECURITY
The T. & G. is in an impregnable financial position.
The Assets, which increased by £7,5 70,000 to the
record total of £97,050,000, are held in trust to meet
payments to policyholders as they fall due.
GROUP ASSURANCE
In the past year the attractive conditions offered and
the splendid service given by the T. & G. have induced
many industrial and commercial organisations to
authorise the Society to underwrite their Staff Super-
annuation and Group Provident Schemes.
78 Years of Service—Purely Mutual, No Shareholders
[ JlfeSociety
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (Incorporated in Victoria, 1876)
a shudder. “You’ll post it in,
then? Good-morning.”
“But won’t there be a
reporter?”— —
“Saturday is a very busy day,”
said Molly sternly. “We can
only do our best.”
Here the bashful daughter
plucked at her parent’s arm and
muttered, “Aw, come on,
Mum”; and they disappeared
round the door.
Molly wiped her palms on her
handkerchief for the third time.
Myfanwy would be there by
now. What if the matron came
in and confronted her! What
if Dr. Grantley came back
unexpectedly and found her at
his desk! But Myfanwy was a
cool customer, never ruffled and
not easily frightened. She’d be
all right. But would she get the
information?
TN her low-heeled white shoes
and white cotton stockings
Myfanwy walked boldly down
the passage to the door marked
Medical Superintendent. Not a
detail was out of place. Her
hair, like the matron’s, was grey,
and the shortness of its Eton
crop was hidden under the white
veil.
Even her spectacles, which
were usually horn-rimmed, she
had changed for her old gold-
rimmed pair; fortunately the
matron wore these, for without
them she could not have seen a
thing. A scarlet shoulder-cape
like the matron’s finished off her
costume, for she had recently
played the part of an Army
nurse in an amateur show.
The medical superintendent’s
door was ajar. She listened
outside, tapped to make sure and
then went boldly in. It was a
medium-sized room with a
window opposite the door, and
in front of this a desk with a
swivel-chair behind it. There
were two straight-backed chairs
and a filing-cabinet against one
wall, and the other was filled with
bookshelves of heavy volumes
bound in calf.
Myfanwy turned her attention
to the desk. She could not see
the brochure Molly had men-
tioned. There was a pile of mail,
unopened, in the basket marked
Inward, and a torn, empty
envelope, which she slipped into
her sleeve. Beside the basket
lay a copy of the B.M.A. journal,
the “Lancet.” A bail-point pen
lay on the blotter, which was
covered with doodlings of pigs
with curly tails.
In the Outward basket were
several carbon copies of letters,
and looking through these
Myfanwy almost gave a whoop
of joy. One, dated several weeks
ago, was addressed to a large
British manufacturer of scientific
equipment, and accepted their
tender for supplying to the Prince
Edward Public Hospital a new
X-ray plant for deep-therapy,
naming a sum which made
Myfanwy give a low whistle.
She quickly took notes in
shorthand and put the letters tidy
again; then glanced through the
“Lancet.” There was an ink-
mark against an article on
X-rays used in deep-therapy.
She was noting the journal’s date
—Molly could look it up in the
office files —when she heard a
heavy-footed tread approaching
down the corridor:
Swiftly she put the journal as
she had found it and stood tense
and irresolute. If she dashed out
quickly, and it was the matron,
she’d meet her face to face; if
she waited, the matron would
turn into her room and she could
slip past the door. On the other
hand, it might be the doctor. She
listened tensely; the footsteps
were almost at the door.
Snatching up the pen from
beside the blotter, she moved
swiftly to the door, where she
would have the light behind her.
As she opened it Dr. Grantley
stood in the entrance, looking
a haughty inquiry. Then he
said, “Yes, Matron?” and she
breathed again.
“Oh, I just popped in to
borrow your pen, Doctor.
Mine’s run out. These wretched
ball-points!” And she flashed
him a toothy smile.
The doctor did not respond.
“I’ll be needing it myself in a
minute.”
“All right. I just want to sign
something. I’ll bring it straight
back.”
He stepped aside, and she
walked past him, holding her
chest out and her shoulders back.
She did not dare look round as
she approached the matron’s
door, to see if he was still watch-
ing. She must chance the matron
being within. She opened the
door and put the pen down on
the table ; forced herself to count
ten slowly and came quietly out
again.
She moved down the corridor
with the matron’s heavy-footed,
bustling tread. A young nurse
passed her with a muttered
“Good-morning, Matron,” and
she smiled to herself in triumph.
A few minutes later she was
speeding back to the “Standard 1 ’
office to collect her five pounds.
She changed back into her own
clothes in Roma’s room, while
they listened breathlessly to her
account, and praised her presence
of mind. She produced the
envelope as proof. “I could
easily have brought the pen as
well, but I didn’t want to get the
matron into trouble,” she said.
At that moment Dr. Grantley
was stalking angrily into the
matron’s room to retrieve his
pen. Not finding her there, he
snatched it up, and was walking
out with it when he met her
coming in. The glare he gave
her, for which the poor woman
had no idea of the reason, simply
confirmed her in her opinion that
he was a good doctor, but a boor.
VX/TTH great satisfaction Molly
prepared her article. She
found a filed copy of the B.M.A.
journal she wanted in the
morgue, or office-library, and
soon had all the details on deep-
therapy. She headed her article,
£9OOO PLANT FOR
HOSPITAL
numbered the pages, signed it
and took it down the corridor
and dropped it in the chief-
sub.’s wire-basket.
That afternoon she was out
late, covering a meeting of the
National Council of Women,
and did not see the chief-of-staff
on her return. The next morning
she waited smugly for him to
send for her. As long as they
didn’t ask her to see Dr. Grantley
for a “follow-up”!
She had rather neglected her
round yesterday, in taking over
the social-room while Myfanwy
was out, and polishing her
hospital story ; perhaps she had
better ring a few places. This
morning she had been late, and
had no time for breakfast. She
rooted in her bag, bringing out
two biscuits and a banana, and
nibbled the biscuits while ringing
the museum and the zoo. But
nothing seemed to have hap-
pened ; not even the birth of a
rare parrot.
She had just taken a big bite
of the banana when the switch-
board at the national gallery
answered, and she asked in a
rather muffled voice for the
director. Just then she looked
up and saw the editor approach-
ing. It was rare enough for this
august being to enter the
reporters’-room; now he was
actually coming up to her desk.
Now everyone on the
reporting-staff smoked constantly
while working, but eating was
somehow shameful. With a
tremendous effort she pushed
the whole of the banana into her
mouth and swallowed violently.
The editor was a very large
man with a very deep voice,
humorous blue eyes, and a pipe
stuck permanently between his
teeth. Molly felt for him a
mixture of awe and adoration.
She looked up, prepared to smile
brightly, but her mouth was too
full. At that moment the director
of the national gallery answered
his phone.
“Gugnorning, ither
‘Shtandard’ offush here,” she
mumbled,
“Hallo? Who is it?”
“Ither”
But a piece of banana slid
down the wrong way; she
coughed violently, and the piece
sailed out of her mouth and
made a graceful landing on the
telephone. Molly looked up
agonisedly, her face scarlet.
“Nermind, I’ll callgen later,”
she gasped, and hung up,
swallowing the last of the banana
as she did so. The editor’s mouth
was clamped firmly over his pipe,
but there was a twinkle in his
eye.
“Hallo, Molly. Busy?”
“Oh, no, I mean, yes. I was
just ringing my round. But I’ve
nearly finished.”
“Well, come in and see me
when you’re through. I’ve just
had the medical superintendent
of the Prince Edward Hospital
on the phone.”
And he turned away and went
into the chiefs-room, leaving
Molly gaping after him. So. Dr.
Grantley was on the warpath!
Was she going to be put on the
carpet? But he hadn’t looked
angry, even when she coughed-
up the banana.
A FTER ringing through to the
national gallery again, and
taking down a few notes, she
made her way to the editor’s
sanctum. She knocked and went
in, standing uneasily in front of
his desk on the grey carpet. His
secretary sat at her table with an
air of concentrated listening
about her back. Molly’s knees
seemed turned to water. She
took a deep breath. “You
wanted to see me, Mr.
Percival?”
“Oh, yes, Molly.” The editor
o Continued on page 30)


wildest guesses among themselves
about how he can possibly be
using the few standard, and not
particularly useful, electrical
appliances he has in his rooms
for the cure of migraine.
A very different kind of estab-
lishment from the one he had in
the country; and a noticeable
difference in the man, too ; a
mellowed, calmer, kinder man,
as if his professional success were
firmly buttressed by a secure and
tranquil domestic existence. No
streamlined chain-system; no
littered consultation-room. Only
a couple of deep, comfortable,
old leather armchairs, in one of
which sits the doctor, and in the
other his patient.
“Now tell me all about your-
self,” he says, using only half as
many words per minute as he
used to. “Have you any serious
troubles or worries?”
No embarrassing undressings
or revolting examinations, no
painful proddings, no brutal
thumpings. The only interrup-
tion to the patient’s monologue
is a sudden tap on his crossed
knee which causes an amusingly
extravagant reflex action. Then
the specialist says, leaning back
in his chair as if philosophising
to himself.
“There is a school of medical
thought which concerns itself
with the amount of electricity
which accumulates in the human
body.”
If at this point he is inter-
rupted by an excited female
patient, he listens with an
interested smile.
“Oh, doctor, when I comb my
hair sometimes, or when I pull off
my underwear, you ought to hear
the crackling. You can even see
the sparks if I do it in the dark.”
“Just so,” the doctor goes on,
“there are various ways in which
this bodily electricity is generated
and stored. But what the
researchers are concerned about
is what happens when a
dangerous excess is accumulated.
One theory which is beginning to
gain a wide acceptance is that
epileptic fits are caused by a
sudden discharge of this excess,
and that migraine is similarly
caused by a discharge of lesser
violence. The plan we are work-
ing on, then, is to draw away that
accumulated electricity safely,
harmlessly and painlessly. Now
just step through this door to
my laboratory.”
The patient is dazzled by the
contrast. Here are chromium-
and-glass instruments, bakelite
arms and knobs, dials, switches,
plugs and leads everywhere; in
the middle of it all, a hygienic
plastic-covered seat, where the
patient sits . . .
A male patient’s arms are
strapped to padded rests, “for
your own safety.” A pair of
glass disks on the end of
powerful arms close in, one on
each side of his head, so that he
can’t look anywhere but straight
ahead. Then the doctor’s voice
is solemn warning tones:
“Now keep perfectly still!”
He switches off the light. All
the artificial arms and bands
seem to close tightly on the
patient, holding him immovable.
Slowly an intolerable heat rises
in the glass disks beside his head.
“Now, now, nothing to worry
about if you keep perfectly still.”
Fear tingles the patient’s spine,
and perspiration runs down his
ribs. His head is so hot that he
imagines he can detect a smell
of roasting.
“Now the first test,” the doctor
says.
The patient can see a little
now. The doctor has picked up
a glass bulb, vaguely like an
electric-light bulb, but with no
lead attached to it. He brings
it steadily nearer the patient’s
head. Then suddenly, as it is
about an inch from his face, it
miraculously lights up of its own
accord.
6 6TTM,” says the doctor,
ignoring the patient’s
wonder, “heat off; lights on.
How do you feel now?”
If the patient is a particularly
sturdy type he may be so relieved
as to reply jokingly, “Cooked,”
Women patients are apt to need
a glass of cold water.
The doctor allows them to
relax and look around while he
fiddles with his complicated
gadgets. Now he brings out a
long, violet-colored bulb and
plugs it into a socket on his
switchboard. He switches off the
room light.
“Right,” he says, “sit up
straight and don’t move.”
The slight humming that has
been going on rises in pitch, the
violet bulb glows brighter,
revealing the doctor’s face alarm-
ingly purpled, his eyes gleaming
darkly, mysteriously. All the
patient feels capable of doing is
to watch the violet bulb coming
nearer. It lights his pinioned
hands, then his clothing. He gets
a hollow, horrible feeling that
something cataclysmic is going
to happen to him. He is startled
almost out of his wits to see a
bright electric flash leap out of his
body and enter the violet bulb.
The patient gasps, attempts
vainly to struggle, then lies still.
The pain, what there was of it,
is gone. The fights go up, the
shackles fall from his limbs. He
rises from the plastic seat feel-
ing that it is at least a week
since he entered the room. The
doctor consults dials, graphs and a
thing like a ticker-tape. He makes
exact calculations in a book.
“Yes,” he says happily to the
patient, as they sit down in the
armchairs again, “I can certainly
cure your migraine. Just cross
your knees again and let’s see if
we still get that spectacular
reaction. There you are —hardly
a kick left in you! ”
Then with the utmost con-
fidence he adds, “Just a few
regular treatments with me, and
you’ll be leading a better life.”
The Standing hour
by Gordon Donald
y**] MONO the houses and
/H disused factories in low-
[ lying streets near the
wharves at Wool-
loomooloo stands the old fish-
market building capped with a
red four-sided tower and metal
dome crowned with a spike and
ball. Beneath the dome in each
face of the tower is set a clock
with black hands and numerals
and a dirty white face.
From his room high on a side-
street near the hilltop overlook-
ing slate and iron roofs and
glazed - earthenware chimney-
pots old Harry, whose pension
did not allow him a bedroom-
clock, could read the time by
the south clockface with a tele-
scope he had found in a clump
of brown grass.
One dawn when fog lay over
the city and horns were tooting
on the harbor he wakened and
stared at the dim grey outlines of
buildings close at hand. On such
mornings, when light is deceptive
and long shadows and highlights
are missing from certain build-
ings, comes the suspicion that
it’s later than you think.
Harry put on a black overcoat
with curled lapels over shirt and
grey trousers above crinkled
shoes, wound a woollen strip—
six inches wide cut from an
Army blanket —around his neck,
clapped a stained felt hat over
his ginger-colored hair, and set
off to find out the time.
■OEYOND a short flight of
stone steps at the foot of
grey rock-face a criss-cross of
streets lay hidden in fog. He
made his way feeling with his
hand the iron-netting fence of
the children’s playground built
by a provident council. At the
corner of the fence hfe struck
across a road, and went along a
narrow street where in summer
fishing-nets are spread for mend-
ing on the low fences in front
of houses in which Italians live
behind doors and windows of
broken greens and blue.
At the street-corner he turned
right and saw the clock-tower
looming above him through the
fog. Near by on a doorstep a
small dusty girl clad in a pair
of coarse blue rompers and heavy
jumper of red wool passed the
time away smearing her face
with jam from a square of bread
and watching him with that
mournfulness peculiar to the
very young. Through the grey-
ness he could not quite make out
the numbers on the clockface.
“Well, there!” said Harry to
the urchin. “Can you see the
clock?”
The piece of bread was held
still on the instant, and the small
slippered feet wriggled one upon
the other on the pavement. Into
the brown eyes came a bashful,
morbid eagerness. Obviously
she was delighted with the words.
She felt expressively that her
mornings were getting better and
better. Through the mist of
dawn her features broke into
jammy sunshine. One small arm
was outflung suddenly for
balance, and she scrambled up-
right and vanished indoors,
presently emerging with a larger
child towed by one sticky finger,
“Hullo!” said Harry. “Can
you see the clock?”
The smaller urchin arched her
back against the corner of the
doorway and bent one knee,
placing the sole of her foot
against the wall. Her hand clung
for support to the shirt of the
elder, a boy, who mustered all
the dignity of a seven-year-old
interpreter beneath his ruffled
hair. He disengaged the hand
gently, and lowered the urchin
to a sitting position on the door-
step where she smeared fresh
jam and looked at Harry with
wobbly interest.
“What clock?” demanded the
boy, aiming at fact.
“That one,” said Harry, point-
ing upward.
The boy scanned the tower
briefly. “What d’ you want to
see that old clock for? It’s no
good,”
“If I could see it I could tell
the time,” Harry said, outlining
his problem.
“No you couldn’t —it’s no
good,” replied the urchin, shift-
ing uneasily. “It always says
half-past three. Even in the
mornings it says half-past three.”
66 p R-R-R-NIE! ” called a
■*-' woman’s voice.
From the harbor a siren
sounded close by. Through the
fog came a promise of sunshine.
Harry bent closer to the boy.
Farther out over the water a
horn caught the echo of the siren
and began tooting at intervals.
“What’s it say now?” said
Harry.
“I told you,” said the boy,
backing indoors.
Heavy flat footsteps sounded
in the hallway behind him.
“Ernie! ” said a woman’s voice
sharply. “What you doing out
there? Come inside to your
breakfast and bring Margie.”
Her face and shoulders
appeared in the doorway above
him. She saw Harry. “What is
it?” she demanded.
He looked up and straightened
his back carefully. “What time
is it by* the clock?” he asked
quietly, turning his head a little
towards the tower.
She leaned over the boy and
peered upward to one side. It
was only a token gesture, giving
the quick impression she had not
read the clock. Her voice rose.
“That one? You won’t get it
from that one. It’s broken.” She
cast a glance behind her. “It’s
half-past six now/’ she added
briefly. “Get your shoes on,
Ernie, before you’re late for
school again!”
“Broken?” said Harry. “Are
you sure? Was it broken yester-
day?” He stared doubtfully at
the tower. “I look at it every
morning and it’s always right.”
He hesitated. “I wake up at a
quarter-past six every morning
by the clock.”
The woman gave him a search-
ing look. “How you do that is
something beyond me when that
clock hasn’t budged these fifteen
years from half-past three. Ask
anyone. Maybe thirty years.
Don’t you ever look at it in the
daytime?”
“No,” he said. “Only in the
mornings; first thing.”
The smaller urchin removed
the last of the jam from her
square of bread, which she placed
behind her after the manner of a
dog burying a bone carelessly,
and stared at Harry solemnly.
“You’d better get yourself
another clock,” said the woman,
stooping.
She placed her hands under the
armpits of the urchin, lifted her,
cradled her, and, freeing one
hand, gave the boy a sharp tug.
Harry strained his eyes at the
tower.
“If you don’t believe me —ask
anyone,” she said, turning away.
The door slammed beside him.
He stared at its green surface
vacantly for a moment. Early
sunshine filtered through the fog.
He stared upward. The numbers
on the clockface appeared
clearer.
He made a half-circuit of the
building and peered at each
clock. From east and west it was
mid-afternoon. From the north
it was twenty-five minutes before
eight-o’clock. He stood for some
time beneath the clock on the
southern face of the tower wait-
ing for the hands to move.
At length he turned and made
his way slowly homeward, frown-
ing once in a while and shaking
his head.
pACH of us has, perhaps, some
•*“' doubly precious sight or
sound.
It was Harry’s custom of a
morning to climb the further
stone-steps leading to the main
hilltop, a difficulty for him
relieved by frequent pauses and
shading of eyes under pretext of
watching ships in the bay. His
progress was usually very slow
on the last flight. At the top is
a wooden seat in front of iron
railings. On this he would sit
gratefully in the shade of a
plane-tree opposite to the school.
At eight came the children.
Presently a bell would sound
within the school and later on the
voices of children singing. Often
he would be there still when the
afternoon bell rang and children
darted into the street away from
the school-gate with shrill cries
and banging of suitcases.
They spoke sometimes of “the
old man under the tree,” and
made tales about him. Some
said he was a spy ; others swore
he came from outer space and
meant to kill them all. Teacher,
who loitered one day near him
and looked into his eyes, said
it was an old man sitting there
with a painful and passionate
longing for his own boyhood ;
remembering his hot and wilful
youth and his follies in full
manhood ; desiring for each of
them that he grow and serve a
good purpose: but his tale was
not believed.
Skipping or scuffling they burst
from the gate of an afternoon
and made their way home. When
the last had gone he would go
down the steps, stooping a little
as he lowered each foot in turn,
and sometimes sitting again on
the seat on the second landing
from the bottom, shading his
eyes and pretending to look at
the water.
TTI7HEN he reached home on
* ’ the morning of his excursion
to the source of time, still frown-
ing in thought, he took his tele-
scope to the window and pointed
his eye to the south clock. The
fog was clearing and the city
beyond lay in a golden haze.
Throughout the morning he
repeated his examination of the
clockface.
Occasionally a plume of vapor
from a steam-laundry puffed and
thinned in front of the tower-
wall, and then its new absence
would cause him to look in fresh
expectation. Each time, however,
he saw that the hands stood at
half-past three, though a casual
glance might have suggested the
hour as a quarter-past six.
Towards noon Harry passed
through what appeared to be a
moment of struggle. His
weather-reddened face fell and
he stared long and hard at his
telescope. Presently he wrapped
it in newspaper, placed it under
his arm and went out, setting off
in the direction of William-street,
where he turned right and
entered a shop where hung many
musical instruments above trays
of jewellery.
Emerging, he carried a parcel
—formed from remarkably
similar newspaper—which, when
unwrapped in his room, dis-
closed an alarm-clock. This he
wound carefully and placed on
the mantelpiece, setting the alarm
for a quarter-past six.
He was taking his tea at a seat
beside the window in the evening
at that hour when the alarm
sounded. It startled him. He
let it ring until his mind became
adjusted to it. Then he rewound
and set it. Afterwards he sat
watching the ferry-lights and
listening to the ticking of the
clock. When it was dark he went
to bed.
In darkness on the following
morning he woke and fumbled
for a match; its flickering light
showed him the time: it was
half-past three. He lay back
waiting for the alarm, and fell
into a sleep from which he
wakened at half-past three in the
afternoon.
SIMILARLY on the next day,
and for two days following,
he was late for the children. He
tried to fill his time by other
means and made one or two
excursions to the hill, finding it
quiet and unfamiliar in their
absence. When he looked from
his window at the tower, and the
clock that he could no longer
read, he expressed the feeling that
it had in some way betrayed him.
On the fourth day he spent the
remainder of the afternoon in
unsettled activity; he moved
about doing many unfruitful
things: but, in the strangeness
of a new possession, he did not
wind the clock, which ticked less
and less pointedly towards even-
ing until it came to a stop at
precisely fifteen minutes past six.
Aware of stillness, he cast a
sudden glance in its direction.
Picking it up he made as if to
wind it, but paused and looked
again at Hie dial. For a long
moment he looked at it with
interest. Then he replaced it,
unwound and silent, on the
mantelpiece, and became at once
occupied with his thoughts, which
apparently did not include the
clock, for the remainder of the
evening. Indeed, he went out of
his way to avoid looking at it.
At dawn on the following
morning Harry woke and looked
at the clock, and saw that it was
fifteen minutes past six. He
looked through his window at
the long shadows and highlights
on certain buildings and saw that
it was fifteen minutes past six.
He felt ■ that it was fifteen
minutes past six. And every
working clock in the city, had
he been able to see them all,
stopd close by to fifteen minutes
past six.
Habit, encouraged by the
presence of a silent, albeit reliable
clock, had returned to Harry
and wakened him, at seventy-
four years of age, in time for
school.


legacy from Dr. Moussadek
Kwinana
By R. H. LAUNDER
THREE years ago I. B.
Champion (then C.O.R.
branch-manager in Western
Australia, now assistant
general-manager in Melbourne)
told the W.A. Government that,
if it bestirred itself, there was a
good chance that W.A. could get
the new refinery the Anglo-
Iranian group contemplated
building in Australia.
Now, at Kwinana, on Cock-
burn Sound, south of Fremantle,
is the biggest oil-refinery in Aus-
tralia, built at a cost of £4O
million, and ready to go “on
stream” early in the New Year.
Since the war, for strategic,
economic and political reasons,
the oil-industry has turned from
concentrating refining - capacity
on large refineries near oilfields
to building smaller refineries near
to market - outlets. Dr.
Moussadek accelerated the trend
for Anglo-Iranian; the closure
of Abadan caused Anglo-Iranian
to think again about refining oil
from Middle East sources other
than Persia (principally Kuwait)
for Eastern and Pacific markets.
A decision was taken to build
new refineries at Aden and in
Australia.
The Westralian Government
of the time responded energeti-
cally to Champion’s suggestion.
W.A. had a place to offer which
could be presented as one of the
best natural sites for an oil-
refinery that could be imagined.
An extensive area of flat, easily
developed land was available
with a waterfront of 14 miles on
sheltered Cockburn Sound. A
refinery there would be only 12
miles from Fremantle, the biggest
bunkering port in the Southern
Hemisphere.
The area, lying between Fre-
mantle and the coastal town of
Rockingham, took its name from
the State - shipping vessel
Kwinana, which caught fire and
was wrecked in 1921. As a result
of Champion’s initiative, the
State Government’s enterprise,
and Anglo-Iranian’s need and
capital, Kwinana (the aboriginal
word for “pretty maiden”) will
be a big name in Australia from
now on.
Before Anglo-Iranian became
satisfied that Kwinana was the
ideal site on which to build,
certain prerequisites had to be
assured. Access from the sea to
Cockburn Sound had to be pro-
vided for the biggest tankers;
this would call for dredging a
channel through two sandbanks.
Electric-power and fresh-water
must be provided and guaranteed.
There would have to be housing
for the 1000 permanent
employees of the refinery.
The W.A. Government
responded nobly. It was helped
to a decision to invest heavily
by the knowledge that the
Kwinana area was big enough
not merely for the refinery but
for a new industrial area that
would attract and house other
industries to which access to the
sea is essential.
The State Government under-
took to have the approaches to
Cockburn Sound dredged, and
let a contract worth £2,000,000
to a Dutch firm. It agreed to
improve roading access to
Kwinana, a rail-connection if
wanted, and water and electrical-
power lines.
Butane-gas containers
The W.A. State Housing Com-
mission undertook to provide
housing, and approached the job
in a spirit of refreshing imagina-
tion. Provision would be made
to house not only the refinery
employees but people for other
industries that might be estab-
lished on the sound. An area
of mildly undulating scrub and
woodland two-and-a-half miles
east of the refinery was chosen
for the site of the new town of
Kwinana. There would be a
principal town and, attached to
it, four neighborhood-units; the
whole would eventually cater for
a population of 40,000.
This layout allowed concen-
tration on a first neighborhood-
unit for refinery employees.
Planning commenced and a
survey was begun in October,
1952; clearing and road-
construction in November,
1952 ; water-main laying and
erection of electricity-mains in
December, 1952 ; building opera-
tions commenced in January,
1953.
At present, the neighborhood-
unit called Medina (after an early
immigrant-ship) nears comple-
tion. Contracts for 800 buildings
have been let at a value of more
than £2,000,000. More than 700
houses have been completed to
fulfil the refinery’s immediate
needs, and shopping, civic, park-
ing, entertainment and hotel
amenities have been provided.
A school is about ready.
Medina is a most pleasant
housing-settlement. Great care
has been taken to preserve a
rural character; as much scrub
and as many trees as possible
have been left standing. Streets
have been planted with trees.
Houses (mostly timber-frame)
are attractively sited and gaily
painted. The whole portrays
the hand of a town-planner who
is also a landscape-artist. Miss
Margaret Fielman, the town-
planning consultant, is a woman
thoroughly on top of her job.
When Medina is completed,
Calista will be built, and already
there are signs that this
neighborhood - unit will be
wanted in the near future.
The promise that the Kwinana
industrial area would attract
other industries is in process of
fulfilment. Broken Hill Pro-
prietary is building a steel-
rolling mill at a cost of
£4,000,000 ; the mill is planned to
produce 50,000 tons of rolled-
steel products a year. If research
proves the possibility of using
Collie coal as a coking coal, the
B.H.P. rolling-mill will be the
first step in the ultimate estab-
lishment of a fully integrated
iron-and-steel industry in W.A.,
based on extensive iron-ore
deposits at Yampi Sound.
Another Kwinana site has been
purchased for a £2,200,000
cement-factory which will more
than double the present State
output.
But at present everything else
is dwarfed by the magnificence
of the refinery and its labora-
tories, amenities and jetty. Here
is a perfect example of big busi-
ness operating with the technique
of real greatness. Anglo-Iranian
wanted a job done it wanted
it done in a hurry ; it had the
money to pay. Its methods are
an example and a lesson. Speed
was the keynote, and the best
skills available were called upon
to provide it.
An English consulting firm,
Rendel, Palmer and Tritton,
was commissioned to design a
jetty which would at the one
time accommodate three 32,000-
ton oil-tankers, American skill
and know-how in refinery con-
struction was called in; the
M. W. Kellogg Co., of New
York, accepted overall super-
vision ; its subsidiary, the
Kellogg International Co., and a
British consortium of three big
engineering firms undertook the
actual contract to build the
refinery, and the contractors at
once set out to study to what
extent Australian industry could
be used.
The result is that materials
obtained in Australia amount to
44 per cent, of the total. United
Kingdom 41 per cent, and
U.S. and elsewhere 15 per cent.
The jetty was wanted in a
hurry. Pile-driving commenced
in July, 1953, and while it was
going on prefabricated beams
and members were being cast on
shore. This structure, which is
almost a mile in length, was com-
pleted in 16 months. An interest-
ing point about the jetty is that
the steel piles and metal in
contact with sea-water are given
cathodic protection, the effect
being that an electric-current
passed from a cathode to a
magnesium anode buried on
shore lightly coats the metal
surfaces with magnesium and
prevents corrosion.
The contractors’ engineering,
planning, drawing and purchas-
ing offices were set to work on
the other side of the world while
preliminary work began on the
site. The extent of the draught-
ing effort is gauged by the fact
that 14,500 tracings were pre-
pared in the offices of the con-
tractors in the U.K., to which
must be added another similar
number of drawings and
sketches done by fabricators and
manufacturers of the many
component vessels, structures,
pumps, motors and machines
which go to make up a modern
oil-refinery.
In Australia soil-mechanics
experts were called in to assess
the qualities of the ground, its
bearing - capacity, corrosive
qualities or otherwise; its
electrical resistivity. Agros-
tologists were wanted to ad-
vise what would grow and so
bind the soil and prevent
erosion; meteorologists to
advise when best to do
marine work. The labor-
market in Australia was
studied, and local architects
were invited to plan office-
buildings and staff amenities.
The labor situation sur-
prised the investigators. It
became apparent early that,
contrary to previous expec-
tations, enough labor in the
building- and civil-engineer-
ing trades would be found
locally. Therefore, tentative
plans to ship out a force of
200 to 300 tradesmen from the
United Kingdom were revised.
Later the question arose of
finding steel-tradesmen and
mechanics of the requisite
skill. In the event, according to
C. H. E. Rebbeck, Anglo-
Iranian’s supervisory engineer at
Kwinana, fewer than 100 out of
a total of 2000 craftsmen came
out under contract; the balance,
mainly recruited at the gate, were
Australians, with a good pro-
portion of New Australians
among them.
The first contracts were let to
W.A. contractors in November,
1953, for such jobs as scrub-
clearing and fencing. Early in
1953 the first trickle appeared
of what eventually became a
flood of materials through the
port of Fremantle. By the end
of 1953 all the underground
foundation-works were com-
pleted. Everything that is seen
above ground at Kwinana today
was built this year; a visitor to
Kwinana cannot help but marvel
at this achievement and appre-
ciate how much it is due, not
only to the construction engineers
and workers, but to organisa-
tional planning by which each
piece was made available as it
was required, no matter whether
it originated in the U.K., the
U.S., the eastern States or in
W.A.
The refinery is designed for a
throughput of 3,000,000 tons of
Middle East crude-oil a year.
Older refinery-processes combine
with the very newest methods to
extract as many products of
high quality as possible from the
intake. The output of refined
products will be about 2,800,000
tons, which will include motor-
spirit, power-kerosene, turbine-
fuel for jet-aircraft, diesel- and
fuel-oils, as well as bitumen for
Western Australian roads.
The first step is for the crude
to flow through the fractionating
towers to be treated by the usual
atmospheric-distillation method.
Helpfully implementing explana-
tions by chemists and engineers
to a party of journalists who
visited the refinery recently,
R. B. Dummett, managing-
director of C.0.R., said: “If you
find difficulty in understanding
all this, gentlemen, just think of
the old kettle boiling at home,
and then imagine that the steam
is being drawn off and
condensed.” Refining oil has
rather more refinements, but,
fundamentally, Dummett out-
lined the atmospheric-distillation
process.
Some of the refinements at
Kwinana are a hydrofiner which
extracts sulphur from diesel-oil,
and various washing processes
for removing impurities and
improving quality. Catalytic
cracking is a process designed to
increase the aggregate value of
the various products obtained
from each ton of crude-oil pro-
cessed. Residual oil remaining
after atmospheric distillation is
passed into a unit in which it
meets a platinum catalyst under
carefully governed conditions of
pressure and heat. The product
is a high-octane motor-spirit
which is blended with the motor-
spirit already produced by the
atmospheric - distillation units.
The “cat-cracker,” so to speak.
gives the last squeeze to the
crude-oil.
Chemists say that almost
complete conversion of crude-
oil into the more valuable motor-
spirits and light oils is already a
possibility, but the cost of such
conversion is at present pro-
hibitive. However, by investing
in such units as the catalytic
cracker, and meeting the cost of
the exceedingly expensive
platinum catalyst, the owners of
Kwinana have gone a long way
towards refining crude-oil to the
last drop.
A tour through Kwinana
reveals ancillary services of high
quality. There are laboratories
and control-rooms which can
make one think one has entered
a Wellsian world. There is a
magnificent canteen of gracious
proportions; a viewer accus-
tomed to judging length by the
length of cricket-pitches judged
that about three cricket-pitches
would fit into the long side, and
one and a half into the short
side. There is a kitchen replete
with stainless-steel (even a
stainless-steel ceiling) which any
of the world’s leading hoteliers
would envy. There are washing
and bathing facilities for
employees which are quite up to
the standard of the pre-
operational cleaning-rooms that
one sees surgeons using on the
films.
To reduce the whole thing to
contemporary understatement:
Kwinana is “quite a place.” It
is a place of which Australia can
be proud; and of which W.A.,
for the part it has played in its
construction, can be mightily
proud.


SPORTING NOTIONS
Majority of the first acceptors
for the £3OOO A.J.C. Summer Cup
(1) mile), to be run on Boxing
Day holiday (Monday), are
weighted below 7.9 (limit 7st),
and, like many previous Summer
Cups, the event will probably
be won by one of the lightly-
weighted. Racing on the first
day of the Randwick summer
fixture last Saturday pointed
strongly to the prospects of
Oxley (7.2), Pipe On (7.2) and
Fire Dust (7.6), while Rosehill
Christmas Cup winner Tatyoon
(7.4) and Durabay (7,4) also
appeal strongly.
• • • •
Tatyoon is selected to win
from Pipe On and Fire Dust.
Doubles-bookmakers are sit-
ting pretty oyer the Villiefs-
Sumraer Cup double, as the two
short-priced favorites for the
mile, Blond Val and Carioca,
missed a place in the Villiers and
comparatively few punters
selected Kev Mar as first-leg. At
time of writing Tatyoon is a
slightly better favorite than Pipe
On and Oxley for the Cup, with
Carioca, Fire Dust and Master
Proven the only others wanted.
Kev Mar beat Fire Dust and
Silver Phantom rather com-
fortably in the Villiers. Several
of the candidates will be compet-
ing in Tattersall’s Carrington
Stakes (6 furlongs) at Randwick
next Tuesday. On a firm track
the Carrington winner has to
cover the distance in about Imin.
ll)sec., and several entrants in
the coming sprint are capable of
bettering that figure.
• • • •]
Bernborough ran his Carring-
ton in 1945 in 1.10), which
equalled Pavilion’s race-record,
made in 1930. Delmestor and
Skip Court both recorded 1.10).
Kev Mar and Silver Phantom
are among those weighted for
the Carrington, but the speedy
Charente should make it inter-
esting for opponents. Others
with a good chance include
Stirrup Cup, Apple Bay, Bird-
wood and Gay Vista.
• • • 0j
Kev Mar was third in the
Q.T.C. Stradbroke Handicap last
winter to Karendi and Persian
Link. The last-named, one of the
most improved horses racing
this season, has been successful
at his last three Brisbane starts.
Owned in Sydney, he is trained
in. the Queensland capital by
H. F, Best. Latest success was
in Q.T.C. December Handicap,
for which he started at 5 to 4
and beat Big Spree and Lucky
Leader. Persian Link’s sire,
Persia, is doing well at the stud.
Another of his progeny, Permel,
was a provincial winner in
N.S.W. last week, while Khay-
yam, an outsider who finished a
promising third to Curassier at
Randwick, might soon win. A
big-strider, Khayyam is trained
at Rosebery by Gordon Brown,
who supplied the Villiers runner-
up, Fire Dust. Persia is a
Nizami.
• • •
Passing Glance (imp.), who
has had considerable success at
the stud in Queensland, is the
sire of Kev Mar. Another of
his progeny won on the same
day—Grand One, in the Q.T.C.
Ramsay Handicap for two-year-
old fillies. Passing Glance is a
son of Nearco from Cora Deans
by Coronach (imp.).
• • • •
Randwick trainer Frank Mc-
Grath had not won two races
on the same afternoon until
Saturday, when he led in the
winners of both divisions of the
Maiden Handicap (Hinges and
Curassier), Hinges, owned by
S. V. Kensit, started favorite
and his stablemate second-
favorite. Raced by his breeders,
Curassier is a three-year-old
gelding by Merry Cavalier (imp.)
from Manicure, a Yaralla mare
from Head Set by Spearhead
(imp.).
• • • •
The T. J. Smith stable added
another treble to its list at Rand-
wick, with Devil Dancer, Bleriot
and Churra. The last-named
had been weighted for the
Villiers, but the stable elected
to tackle the easier Welter. A.
Ward rode Devil Dancer and
Churra, but stable-apprentice F.
Leman had the Bleriot mount.
Products of Kia Ora stud.
Scone (N.S.W.), and both sons
of Channel Swell (imp.), Rand-
wick winners Bleriot and Hinges
were sold at the autumn yearling
auction at Randwick last year
within a quarter of an hour of
each other, Hinges, closely
related to that noted mare
Tranquil Star, cost 2100 gns.
He is from Heyday by Double
Remove (imp.) from Flighty
(sister to Tranquil Star) by Gay
Lothario (imp.). Bleriot, who
cost 1100 gns., is from the Le
Grand Due (imp.) mare Damsel.
Neither Heyday nor Damsel
were raced. Bleriot is related
to Avenger (A.J.C. Derby) and
Bankbrook, and gives an impres-
sion he will stay. He was one of
the last into the straight in the
Three-year-old Novice (one
mile).
At Caulfield on Saturday Mrs.
K. D. Godby bagged the Second
Acorn Stakes for two-year-olds
with the heavily backed Man-
ville, trained by Cecil Godby,
while Jack Godby is mentor of
Tweed, surprise winner of the
First Acorn Stakes, and raced by
Miss J. M. Nash. Manville is by
Billet (imp.) from Falling In
Love by High Peak (imp.).
Another Manville in another
part of the world has frequently
figured in the headlines on
account of his frequent mar-
riages, so the name’s apt enough.
Tweed, by Donegal (imp.),
beat favorite Palm Valley, with
a Donegal filly, Alzon, third, in
the Caulfield two-year-old event.
Alzon started second-favorite.
Tweed was ridden by Ron Faux,
who later in the day scored on
8-to-l Planetarium in the Heath
Handicap. Faux rode winners
for the T. J. Smith stable in
Sydney before settling in Mel-
bourne, where he has done well.
• • • •
Permel, winner of a Hawkes-
bury Maiden Juvenile, and
Obannon, winner of the second
division of that event, were not
expensive yearlings at the Rand-
wick sales last Easter. Permel
cost 325 gns, and Obannon 190.
The former is a grey colt by
Persia (also a grey), and is from
Melcovent by Melfort (imp.). He
belongs to the family which pro-
duced noted sire Blandford and
two winners of the English Oaks
(Cherry Lass and Sun Chariot).
Obannon is a brown filly by
High Caste from Landseer by
Brueghel (imp.) and traces back
on the dam’s side to Martian.
Two years ago Carioca car-
ried 8.10 in the Summer Cup,
and beat Skystreamer and Blank
Music in the smart time of 2.43)
for the 13 furlongs. Last Decem-
ber the Cup distance was reduced
to a mile and a half, Double
Blank winning from Dark Fife
and Regal Glitter in 2.3 If.
Carioca was weighted at 9.10
for the Boxing Day event this
year and on latest form his
prospects wouldn’t be bright.
Aged gallopers hold a lean
record in ail staying events.
Young Crusader’s 2.42}, in
1937, was best time when the
Summer Cup was run at 13 fur-
longs. An increasing tendency
to reduce the length of distance
races is not helpful to the breed-
ing of potential stayers.
Three noted Sydney horsemen
of past years —Jim Pike, Ted
Bartle and Jim Munro; they
won practically every race of
importance on the Australian
Turf calendar—were among the
gathering at the A.J.C.’s annual
prize-night for apprentice
jockeys. On the walls of the
official section of the Randwick
members’-stand are enlarged
photographs and paintings of
these three notable riders
astride the equally famous horses
they rode. Principal winners
among the apprentices for 1954
were W. Toohey (dux), E, J.
Lee, J. R. Paine, F. Leman, M.
Gallagher and R. Walsh.
Character-building is one of the
school’s main objectives. Club
members, officials and ex-jockeys
donated prizes for the crack
riders of the future. One regular
donation is an alarm-clock. Its
recipient will set it for 4 a.m. or
earlier in the summer months.
♦ ♦ •
Up to this second 1954-55
Test three men (Morris, Miller
and Bedser) had played in the
21 post-war England-Australia
Test-matches. Now, with Miller
out through injury and Bedser
somewhat ungratefully dropped
(though his omission gave more
balance to England’s attack).
“Got a nibble—blasted pickers , I suppose.”
Morris remains the sole par-
ticipant in all 22 Tests.
• • • •
Of other leading exponents,
Hutton was dropped from the
third 1948 Test (a sensation at
the time, though Hutton had
been out of touch), Compton,
besides being out of this Sydney
Test, missed the second through
injury in 1950-51, and Evans
has missed a couple— two Bris-
bane Tests, this year’s and the
first post-war Test, when, but
not since, bespectacled Paul
Gibb was considered England’s
No. 1 ’keeper. Lindwall missed
the second 1946-47 Test through
an injury. Hassett at his retire-
ment had played in all 20 post-
war Tests then staged.
Ron Archer, who made a first-
innings top-score of 49, also
made a top-scoring 49 in the
second innings of the final 1953
Test, when Australia lost *the
“Ashes.” Both times he fell to a
slip-catch (the other time by
Edrich off Lock), both times
Lindwall was the other batsman
in. Both times, also, Archer and
Davidson had made good
partnerships for the seventh
wicket —worth 50 at the Oval
(Davidson 21), 52 at Sydney
(Davidson 20). Both times their
partnerships produced the most
runs of any partnership; both
times their batting combined “the
spirit of youth and adventure.”
Jimmy Burke made a century
in his first Test (second innings),
the fourth 1950-51 Test, Failing,
as an opening-bat, in the fifth
Test, he was not recalled to the
Test side until the fourth Test
against the West Indies next
season (the only other Test in
which Morris had led Australia).
Failing again then as an opener,
Burke was again discarded.
Since then he’s been right out of
Test running, and was even
dropped from the N.S.W. team
last season. At times too much
of a stonewaller, he scored run-
for-run with the enterprising
Favell on Saturday, in a partner-
ship which looked like the begin-
nings of another big Australian
score, but when a Harvey not
his usual brilliant self joined him
Burke went back into his shell.
As in England’s first innings
on Friday, Hutton and Wardle
were also the two top-scorers in
England’s first innings in the first
1953 Test at Nottingham,
Wardle was second-top-scorer
that time, with 29 not-out (after
Hutton’s 43), his runs from the
same brand of lusty swinging that
produced his top-score 35 on
Friday. Wardle’s efforts both
times pushed up the English
score. Lindwall has sometimes
done the same needed job for
Australia, though as a rule more
scientifically than Wardle.
Not often that three Test
batsmen make the same score,
particularly a double-figure score,
in the same innings. (“Ducks”
are sometimes a noteworthy
exception.) Three batsmen
(Morris, Harvey and Hole) each
made 12 in Australia’s first
innings, and a fourth (Benaud)
might have been out for a dozen,
too, off Appleyard, if Edrich
hadn’t been dozing at short-leg.
“J.H.”: Why this particular
paradox in the amateur-
professional set-up? Cricketer
Jimmy Burke played last season
as a professional in the Lanca-
shire League. Other Austra-
lians have done so, including
Lindwall. There’s no objection
to their coming back to the
“amateur” ranks. Rightly so,
no doubt. Yet a similar return
is a privilege not granted to pro-
fessional athletes, boxers, tennis-
players and footballers.
“Keima”: Strange that there’s
never been an Australian star
cricketer named Smith. Four
Smiths have played Sheffield
Shield, one of whom (Dave) was
picked in a couple of Tests, but
none hit the high-spots. Two
Robinsons have appeared in
Shield cricket, the better-known
one being Ray, who was in the
N.S.W. team in the ’thirties —
he’s not the cricket-writer of the
same name. There have been
two Jones boys, who have done
far weightier deeds —Sammy, a
gifted batsman of the ’eighties,
his career cut short too quickly
by illness; and Ernie called
Jonah, perhaps the fastest of
Australian fast-bowlers, who
suitably apologised (“Sorry,
Doc., it slipped!”) after he’d
whizzed a ball through W.G.'s
whiskers.
“D.A.L.”: Next season the
Sydney Metropolitan High
Schools’ cricket-competition will
be on a new basis. Teams will
play as one group; this season
they were grouped in two
divisions. Teams in equal posi-
tions in their respective divisions
met in the last round. In the game
between the two division-leaders,
Fort Street and North Sydney,
Fort Street, unbeaten during the
season, won convincingly. None
the less North Sydney gained the
premiership, through having the
most points—rain had robbed
Fort Street of outright wins
early in the season. A final be-
tween the leading team of each
division would have been the
fairest way.
“Mid-on”: Several , Sydney
grade-cricket teams are led by
veterans well past the usual
retiring-age: grade-players for
20 years or more. They all mean
a lot to their clubs. Mort Cohen,
once a State player, last year led
Paddington to the premiership ;
this year, with Cohen away in
the U.S.A. on a business-trip,
“Paddo,” with otherwise prac-
tically the same team, is well
down the list (Cohen is to play
again when he returns). Rand-
wick is never the same team
without Jack Chegwyn, now a
State selector, a first-grader for
27 years. Ernie Laidler, St.
George skipper, has been ’keep-
ing for St. George since 1929 or
thereabouts. Tom Brown, of
Wests, is another old hand.
Finally there’s Mosman’s Ken
Gulliver, who has led the N.S.W.
State side, slow-bowler and left-
hand bat, nippier in the field still
than many fellows 20 years
younger.
* ♦ •
“Chukka”: Mervyn Cook, of
West Haddon (Q.), was playing
polo in 1924; in 1932 he was
one of a team that won the
Downs premiership, and he
repeated this performance in
1935. Since then, except for the
war-years, he has been busy col-
lecting cups and trophies, some-
times in combination with his
three brothers, from carnivals
embracing the eastern States. A
member of the first Queensland
team to win the Australasian
Gold Cup in 1952, he next year
again did his part in retaining
that coveted trophy.
• * •
At Milton (Brisbane), U.S.A.
“whitewashed” Sweden in the
Davis Cup inter-zone final. The
only match anyway close was
the second singles, in which
Seixas beat Bergelin in five sets;
even then, Seixas won the fifth
set all over the Swede. Bergelin
took a set from Trabert; the
other three matches were all
straight-sets affairs. U.S.A. now
meets Australia in the Challenge
Round at White City (Sydney)
on Dec. 27-29. As was the case
last year it’s anybody’s game,
* ♦ *
There’s to be a National
Schoolboys’ golf-title competed
for at Beverley Park, Sydney.
Professional there. Bill Mc-
William is running the show;
Bill always seems to be doing
something for the kids in the
way of golf. Competitors are
to be under 16, and five inter-
state and 11 N.S.W. boys will be
selected to play. Should bring
forward a few up-and-coming
champs.
* * •
Two 12-rounders filled the last
bill for the year at Leichhardt:
Samoan Jimmy Ripley (9.4) v.
Ray Coleman (9.7)), Bert
Hornby (10.8)) v. Ray Richards
(10.9). Coleman, who had his
first ring-fight 14 or 15 years ago,
never won a round, and took
such a trimming in the ninth that
ref. Jack Burns gave it to Ripley
on a t.k.o. Tutor Jack Dunleavy
hoped that Richards would prove
another Jack Haines, who also
came from his stable, but
Hornby outboxed him in every
round.


Mr. Cahill and a Historic Building
Operation Demolition
By M. H. ELLIS
MR. CAHILL, Premier of
New South Wales,
lately announced that it
was proposed to tear
down the existing Parliament
House in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, and replace it with a
new one more in keeping with
the standards of comfort which
the new and opulent race of pro-
fessional politicians look upon as
part of their heritage.
The present structure is cer-
tainly a rabbit-warren, but this
is largely because it is used not
so much as a Parliament House
but as a cheap club and offices
for members. They have facili-
ties within its bounds denied to
members of the House of Com-
mons. But they want more.
It does not seem to occur to
the Government that it would be
proper, if these are to be pro-
vided, to divorce them from
Parliament House altogether. By
far the most ethical and sensible
plan would be to erect a separate
building which would give mem-
bers offices and dormitories. An
annexe to the Mitchell Library
should take care of Parliamen-
tary archives, and the central part
of the present group of buildings,
with some additions in the rear,
would provide ample space for
chambers for the Legislatures.
All this could be done on the
existing ground without interfer-
ing with the historic features of
the site and without destroying
altogether some buildings which
reach right down to the roots of
Australia’s foundation-years, and
which are of such permanent
interest that they have a claim to
preservation.
The two chambers at the end
of the Parliament House group
MACQUARIE’S HOSPITAL, 1811.
The original elevation. From the "Historical Records of New South Wales. Vol. VII." Parliament building on the left-Old Mint on the right.
are newer than the central block,
with its verandas and rows of
pillars.
This is the oldest of all Aus-
tralia’s public buildings, and Mr.
Morton Herman, the historical
spokesman of the Royal Aus-
tralian Institute of Architects,
has informed me that he believes
the fabric is so solid that with
proper maintenance it could
last for centuries.
It was the very first building
which Governor Macquarie
planned when he came to Aus-
tralia in December, 1809.
Macquarie arrived to find the
whole settlement dilapidated,
half-starving and full of the
usual epidemic of summer dysen-
tery which was the scourge of
early Sydney. The victims
claimed it to be due to summer
heat; the moralists attributed it
to “three watered grog.”
His first sight of the then-
existing hospital, which had been
brought out in the Second Fleet
in June, 1790, horrified him. It
stood between the site of Globe-
street off modern George-
street North and the future
Argyle-street, and it was no
credit either to the colony or to
its designer, the illustrious
Wyattville, reconstructor of
Windsor Castle and architect of
the beautiful Sidney Sussex
College in the University of
Cambridge. This building had
been the continent’s first really
solid “prefab,” having been
carried out in numbered pieces.
It was already threatening to fall
down —that is, those parts of it
which had not been carried away
by the lightfingered gentry of the
Rocks.
Macquarie was not the man
to waste time with such a prob-
lem on his hands. He had an
Indian medical education. He
knew what dysentery- and
cholera-epidemics could do. In
fact he suffered for most of
his life as the result of one in
which he had been caught, dur-
ing the campaign against Tippoo
Sahib in 1791; at intervals he
was at death’s door from its
effects.
He knew also of the great
mortality the colony had suffered
in its early days from just such
outbreaks. And, as an experi-
enced campaigner in such
matters, precaution was his
watchword.
Almost his earliest step in the
great building-programme which
he had in mind as necessary from
the beginning was the provision
of a hospital that would be high,
wide and handsome, in an airy
position, apart from the town
yet near it, and fit to accommo-
date, if necessary, all who hap-
pened to be struck down.
The problem of how to
squeeze such an edifice out of a
Home Government which wailed
with pain when the total expenses
of the colony for a year ex-
ceeded £40,000 was another
matter. A hospital would prob-
ably be needed for fainting
Lords of the Treasury even at
the mention of such extrava-
gance. But Macquarie was not
to be deterred, though the
scheme he adopted sounds more
like Dr. D’Arcy Wentworth’s
than his own. The fact that it
fitted in with certain plans which
he had in mind to deal with the
rum-traffic encouraged him to
act without much delay.
Popularly —though there was
far more behind it than that
the Bligh rebellion was sup-
posed to have been the product
of the wrath of rum-traders
thwarted in their profiteering;
and the new Governor had
been enjoined in the strongest
language to put down the traffic
with an iron hand and foot.
Being a politic man, however,
he did not make the mistake of
his predecessors. Both King and
Bligh had had the same instruc-
tions, and they had tried to
carry them out; but they had
not succeeded —because their
method was that of Moses strik-
ing the rock; they gave orders
to abolish the traffic forthwith
and expected them to be carried
out. When this was not done
they fell into a fury, with con-
trasting results —King surren-
dered, Bligh put the finishing
touch to an unpopularity which
established an all-time record
for New South Wales Governors.
Macquarie, on the other hand,
had learned in the East the
proverb about “softlee, softlee
catchee monkey.” He had
commonsense enough to know
that in a community in which
everybody, including the
Government, had been using
rum as the main currency for
nearly two decades, in which
everybody soaked himself in
rum, in which convict-emanci-
pists refused to work except for
rum and grocers were apt to
refuse to deliver the grocery-
order if it did not contain an
item for rum, even Canute could
not stop the traffic suddenly by
the mere issue of an order, no
matter what the penalties
attached.
He knew that he was faced
with a sort of universal con-
spiracy. And, being a sensible
man, he set out to get a bridle
on the problem, so to speak,
before he started to break it in
and render it tractable and
responsive to the bit.
And thus it occurred to him
or somebody that he could both
achieve his purpose and at the
same time present the colony
with a large, handsome and
commodious hospital, with
surgeons’-barracks attached
in fact, a hospital so large that
when it was finished it was diffi-
cult to make use of it at all. And
this almost without expense to
the Government, while at the
same time getting rum under
control.
In the beginning Macquarie
made no apparent real move
against the rum-traffic save the
imposition of a substantial duty.
He paid for Government work
—including his new bridge in
Bridge-street —in gallons. He
allowed the Judge Advocate
the Chief Justice—to pay for the
erection of his official dwelling
in rum.
And then, suddenly, there was
before him, prepared ostensibly
by two enterprising citizens, both
regular church-goers, a delight-
fully ingenious scheme which he
proceeded to use as his bridle
for the Demon Drink.
The two citizens were Mr.
Alexander Riley, a son of a
freeman of the City of London,
who had been Paterson’s secre-
tary after the Bligh rebellion,
and Mr. Garnham Blaxcell, a
factotum of John Macarthur,
who had been one of the inner-
circle which had brought the
rebellion about —he had been a
purser’s assistant in Sir Roger
Curtis’s Squadron at the Cape
of Good Hope before he graced
Sydney with his presence.
Their scheme was that they
should build the hospital—with
its two large surgeons’-barracks ;
the whole group covering
ground nearly 700 ft. long and
38ft. deep and doubled-storied
—exactly for nothing save the
use of a few convict-laborers,
meat for their workers and some
draft-oxen. In return the
Government would allow them a
near-monopoly of the import of
spirits during a period of three
years. They were willing to pay
normal duty. The total import
which they originally claimed
was 45,000 gallons, but it was
raised to 60,000 in the end. And
there was no fixed retail price.
This, even with Government
imports, represented a great
restriction on the colony’s prior
usage of alcohol.
For Macquarie’s purposes the
idea had every advantage. It
enabled him to limit the amount
of spirits imported under a strict
bargain, even though in practice
what was proposed was not a
strict monopoly, since there was
a stipulation which allowed
supplies already on the water to
come in and the Government to
import its own for the use of
the civil and military. It pro-
vided a reasonable amount of
spirits, but not enough to be
universally used as currency by
the fast-growing population. At
the same time it did not achieve
a cutting-off of supplies sudden
enough to produce violent
reaction.
It was, however, sufficient to
allow him to cut down the num-
ber of hostelry-licences from 75
to 20, and generally to secure a
control of the wholesale traffic
from overseas. And, when
the scheme had been moulded
to the Governor’s liking, and
Dr. Wentworth, the principal
surgeon, had been added as an
entrepreneur, so as to assure
that the enterprise would be
conducted with uprightness and
with due consideration for
medical principles, there was
criticism enough.
Hopeful sea-captains coming
in with holds awash with Bengal
found his Excellency with a
bland excuse for not letting their
lethal cargoes in. He could not
break a contract. The
reformers howled that “grave-
yards like ploughed fields” were
being created by the flood of
liquor poured out by the wicked
monopolists—whose trade they
envied —though it was limited.
Parliament heard about it. So
did the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, and Wilberforce, and the
indignant missionary societies.
Earl Bathurst, at the Colonial
Office, appeared, when he criti-
cised, to have the air of an old
prebendary whose favorite
daughter has taken to hashish.
Even the hopeful contractors
were far from enthusiastic.
They had had a versatile experi-
ence of Governors, and thought
they knew every wrinkle in
getting round them. But they
had never before dealt with a
Mull Scotsman who rivalled
Shylock as a past-master in
squeezing the last groat out or
a bargain and wilier than they.
If they altered the roof to
save themselves a little cash,
Macquarie was after them in a
flash forcing them to build him
a chaplain’s house by way of
compensation. When they
scamped other parts of the job
in the interests of profit he set
Mr. Greenway, who had arrived
in the colony at a most appro-
priate time, digging up founda-
tions—or places where the
foundations should have been
and exercising his caustic West
of England wit on them until
they did better.
Macquarie, indeed, kept at
them so hard and threatened
them with such claims for
damages and deductions that
they actually were twice as long
completing the work as they had
expected to be. And though
there is a legend which
has been passed on from his-
torian to historian about their
enormous profits and the awful
debauchery which resulted from
the Governor’s curious expedi-
ent, the fact remains that about
the only people who really
suffered in health were the
contractors.
They at the end were all near
a nervous breakdown. Mr.
Riley was embarrassed. Mr.
Wentworth found himself for a
time, despite his other essays in
capitalism, unable to meet the
modest bills of his son William
in London for living-expenses.
Mr. Blaxcell, the third partner,
did not take enough out of the
business to rid himself of other
embarrassments. The year after
the hospital was finished he
hied himself to J&va, and there,
in disgrace and penury, took his
life.
The inhabitants of the Colony
seemed to be no worse off.
Indeed, as a whole, thanks to
the ministrations of Dr. Red-
fern, the pioneer of vaccina-
tion, and the reduction in the
inflow of liquor and of public-
houses, it seemed to be in ruder
health than at any time up to
then.
It was not necessary, despite
the Honorable Henry Grey
Bennet and the Reverend
Samuel Marsden, to plough any
fields to hide the debauched
dead —which was perhaps as
well, since the architects of the
hospital had somehow over-
looked the need of a morgue,
and the medical-staff complained
to Commissioner Bigge that
they were forced to keep the
departed on the premises in the
kitchen. There were a good
many, for some of the local
doctors, and certainly the
drunken old nurses who staffed
the institution, were far more
deadly to their patients than
any disease.
The first part of the buildings
to be finished and occupied was
the wing which now forms the
centre of Parliament House.
From the first it was not used
for hospital purposes at all.
There the gentle Ellis Bent, and
after him John Wylde, who be-
came in time Chief Justice of
the Cape of Good Hope and
one of the Constitutional fathers
of South Africa,- had their
offices. There a hundred his-
toric events took place. There
(Continued on page 31)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AIR POWER AND STRATEGY
The confusion that exists over
what is a “local” war and what
isn’t, what calls for local action
or what might call for “massive
retaliation,” is clarified by Air-
Marshal Sir John Slessor in a
lengthy examination of “Air
Power and World Strategy” in
the U.S. quarterly, “Foreign
Affairs.”
Noting that it is not 50 years
since the British Admiralty
declined the offer of Wright’s
aircraft-patents because “they
would not be of any practical
value to the Naval Service,” Sir
John continues:
“To speak of the ultimate
development of air-power is not
to make the absurd claim that
aircraft, with or without human
crews, Have reached the peak of
their performance. The modern
jet-propelled bombers njay
perhaps be the last of their line ;
but they will be replaced by the
pilotless bomber—the long-range
controlled-missile of tomorrow.
“No doubt bigger and more
destructive weapons could be
designed than the hydrogen-
bombs we now have. But it
seems doubtful that they need
be made. That which we have is
big enough and its effect on the
issues of war and peace decisive.
We have, in fact, reached the
practical ultimate instrument of
mutual destruction. We have at
last arrived at the point when
war—in the sense of total world
war as we have known it in our
generation—has abolished itself
as a practical instalment of
policy.
“This is on the assumption—
which must surely be accepted—
that the weapon of mass-
destruction would certainly be
used in any great war between
major Powers. That assumption
will scarcely be questioned in the
United States —indeed it forms
the basis of its military policy.
“The British Government in
its ‘Statement of Defence’ of
last February says that ‘it must
be assumed that atomic weapons
would be employed by both
sides’ in another global war.
“The existence of the nation,
and indeed of the free world,
would be at slake from the
moment the men of the Kremlin
decided to risk everything on the
desperate gamble of total war.
They will not do so if we con-
tinue to make it unmistakably
clear that any major aggression
will call down our massive
retaliatory power upon their
heads. Hitler might have
launched the bomb 1 in the final
frenzy of the Gotterdammerung,
he would not have done so in
1939 had he known the result
would be instant retaliation in
kind.
“Russia could not survive the
onslaught of Anglo-American
air-power with the atomic- and
hydrogen-bombs, and the hard-
headed materialists in Moscow
know it. We might not survive
it either; but that would be cool
comfort for the Kremlin.
“We must rely upon the great
deterrent of Anglo-American
atomic air-power ; and the first
charge upon our military
resources should be the main-
tenance of our strategic-bomber
fleets at the highest pitch of
efficiency and readiness. The
Pax Atlantica must rest as surely
upon this modern version of the
Battle Fleet as did the Pax
Britannica (and, incidentally, the
validity of the Monroe Doctrine)
upon the Royal Navy for 100
years after Napoleon. We in
Great Britain must assume our
necessarily smaller but none-
theless immensely valuable share
in the Allied air striking-force.
“That does not mean that
Allied air-power must be in
vastly superior strength. The
J>ize of any force depends on the
job it may have to do in war;
and that of our air striking-
force must be determined
by a professional military
appreciation of what would be
required if it became necessary
to eliminate Russia’s capacity to
be any longer a menace to her
neighbors. What is vital is that
we should not fall behind —
indeed it should be well within
our capacity to retain the lead —
not only in the training and
aptitude of our crews (about
which we need have no anxiety),
but in the technical efficiency of
our aircraft and equipment.
“The prime object of our
scientific endeavor in the field
of military research and develop-
ment must be to ensure that we
can continue to put down the
bomb where we want to, if we
have to, and without an
unacceptable rate of loss. And
nothing could be more important
than to make quite certain that
if the time comes, as well it may,
when the manned-bomber even
at trans-sonic speeds is effec-
tively neutralised by scientific
means of defence, we have ready
to take its place the unmanned-
bomber against which it is
impossible to visualise any
practical defence. Nothing could
be more fraught with peril than
Bogota ( Colombia) “El Tempo ”
EGYPTIAN HIEROGLYPHS
an interlude in which the
manned-bomber had met its
match and we had nothing to
replace it.
“Meanwhile, perhaps for a
generation or more, the prospect
before us is the ‘long haul.’
Primary reliance on the power of
the counter-offensive does not
mean we can ignore the defen-
sive, on land, at sea or in the
air. And we dangerously delude
ourselves if we imagine that we
can safely afford in the long
haul to accept substantial reduc-
tions in the present fightings
strength of our ‘conventional’
forces, particularly of the armies.
Savings there must be and can
be, but our concern should be
more with the quite attainable
aim of getting more real fighting-
value out of our existing alloca-
tions of manpower and material,
before we seek relief from the
present burdens of defence
expenditure,
“We are committed to a policy
of peace through strength ; and
if we now cut our real fighting-
strength, then we shall not have
peace—and, in the long run, we
shall certainly not have
‘economy.’
“We are, alas, all too unlikely
during the long haul to enjoy
real peace as we knew it before
1914. Experience at Berlin and
Geneva should have convinced
us, if proof were needed, that
the Communist aim of world
domination has undergone no
change. If it be true that the
Communists can no longer hope
to achieve that aim by direct
assault upon the citadels of
Western democracy, they will
surely seek to do so by under-
mining our defences and picking
off our isolated outposts.
“The existence of the great
detefrent to total war means, in
effect, not that minor aggressions
are less likely than hitherto, but
more likely. Our enemies will
surely seek to overtax our
strength by tactics in which they
have the advantage of us, but to
which it would clearly not be in
our interest to retaliate by ‘turn-
ing every local war into another
world war,’ in Mr. Dulles’s
words.
“We must, in fact, expect to be
faced with other ‘Koreas’ which
it will be in our interest to localise
and insulate as unquestionably it
was in the real Korea. As the
U.S. Secretary of State has said,
‘Massive atomic and thermo-
nuclear retaliation is not the kind
of power which could most
usefully be evoked in all circum-
stances the free world must
have the means for responding
effectively on a selective basis
when it chooses.’
“The idea that superior air-
power can in some way be a
substitute for hard slogging and
professional skill on the ground
in this sort of war is beguiling
but illusory. Air-support can be
of immense value to an army ; it
may sometimes be its salvation ;
Korea was not needed to prove
that. But we must have a care
not to misread the lessons of
Korea, or of the closing years
of World War 11. The truth that
we should take to heart is that
armies can fight—and not only
defensively—in the face of
almost total air-superiority. We
should have learned that from
the Germans—in Italy, in France
and on the soil of Germany itself
from 1943 to the end.
“We should take advantage
of every aid that science and
technology can give us, and they
are great, especially in defence.
Unlike at sea and in the air,
modern scientific developments
have favored the defensive on
land rather than the attack. But
in these minor though gruelling
wars nothing can be a substitute
for tough, self-reliant infantry
and, above all, for the highest
degree of battle-discipline under
war-seasoned officers of high
quality.
“Oddly enough, the truth is
that these small wars call for
even higher qualities of leader-
ship than when whole popula-
tions are ranged against each
other in arms. Unfortunately in
such wars a Western army is at
a disadvantage as compared to
the troops of a totalitarian State
—particularly if they are Asians
—because we think that main-
tenance of a relatively high
standard of living is indispens-
able even in war.
“Our enemies can live and
fight on a basis of extreme
austerity, and are prepared to
live largely on the country,
regardless of the welfare of the
inhabitants, whom they will not
hesitate to use as beasts of
burden on their line of supply.
They are therefore far less
dependent than we upon all the
paraphernalia of logistic support,
on dumps and depots, rest-
camps and hospitals and great
truck-convoys on the roads lead-
ing to the front —and are conse-
quently less vulnerable than we
to air-action against their lines
of communications and back
areas.
“All this is cold comfort for
anyone who hopes that air-power
will provide some cheap short-
cut to victory. We are in World
War 111 now, and war is an
expensive business. We cannot
carry our reliance upon the
counter-offensive to the possibly
logical but actually ludicrous
extreme of ignoring the defensive
at home or at sea. The first
requirement for a successful
offensive is a secure base, and we
cannot leave ourselves wide
open.
“At the same time, we should
only cripple ourselves if we
aimed at anything like complete
overall protection. If we try to
be strong everywhere, we shall
be strong enough nowhere. A
reasonable measure of protection
(including civil defence) against
air-attack at home, and a sensible
insurance against the mine, the
submarine and the raider at sea
are all part of the deterrent and
must be provided. The object is
to strike the happy mean between
too little and too much. And the
one certainty is that it will be
expensive—but not so expensive
as defeat in the war of the long
haul.
“There is no need for
despondency. Our combined
organisation and equipment for
security are incomparably
superior to anything we have
known before. If there had been
anything like it 20 years ago,
there would have been no World
War 11. The one essential, lack-
ing which we are all of us ulti-
mately doomed, is to preserve the
unity of the free world, and,
above all, of the United States
and the British Commonwealth.
That unity is as vital, in the
long run, to the United States as
to its partners.”
Dutch New Guinea
“It is a pity that the United
Nations General Assembly ever
agreed to put the Dutch-
Indonesian dispute over West
New Guinea on its agenda.”
That London “Economist”
opinion is one common to most
overseas papers, the majority of
which also take a dim view of
the fact that “in spite of the
weakness of the Indonesian
claim, a majority of the [U.N.]
Political Committee has im-
plicitly committed itself to the
view that there is some sub-
stance in what the Indonesians
say; by 34 votes to 14, with 10
abstentions, it has ‘expressed
the hope’ that the Dutch and the
Indonesians would resume the
negotiations on West New
Guinea that broke down nearly
three years ago”;
“There has always been
singularly little merit in the
Indonesian claim to sovereignty
over the territory ; and nothing
said by the Indonesians or their
supporters in the Assembly’s
Political Committee has made
the Indonesian claim any more
presentable. Historically and
geographically it is highly
exiguous, while on ethnic
grounds it has no validity at
all; the inhabitants of Western
New Guinea are predominantly
Papuan and not Malay.
“The Indonesians, aware per-
haps of the weakness of their
claim, have tried to give it
greater appeal by presenting it
as part of the general struggle
against ‘outmoded colonialism.’
But it is nonsense to speak of
the growing political conscious-
ness of the scattered, remote and
extremely primitive tribes of
West New Guinea ; and on any
commonsense view the Dutch,
with their superior experience
and material resources, are far
better fitted than the Indonesians
to give these backward peoples
the kind of friendly tutelage
and practical help that they need
now and will need for many
years to come.
“It is equally absurd to repre-
sent Dutch rule in West New
Guinea as a latent threat to
peace in the area —unless, of
course, anyone harbors plans to
turn the Dutch out by force.
The Australian delegate, on the
contrary, made it perfectly
plain that his country has a
lively strategic interest in main-
taining the security and stability
of the neighboring northern
island.”
In an editorial comment on
the same subject, “New York
Times” notes that “the essence
of ‘colonialism’ is the imposi-
tion of an alien rule without
the consent of the governed.
The issue of consent is para-
mount in the case of the racially
different Papuans of New
Guinea, just as it was para-
mount in the Indonesian objec-
tion to Dutch rule. There has
not been the slightest evidence
that the Papuans want Indo-
nesian rule, that they would give
their free consent to it or that
they would prefer it to the gov-
ernment of the Dutch. On the
contrary, most of the articulate
opinion from the Papuans has
strongly supported the Dutch
and opposed the Indonesians.
“Western New Guinea, with
its extreme backwardness, its
multi plicity of languages —most
of them unwritten —will be a
‘colony’ for some considerable
time to come. The question is
merely whether it shall be a
colony of the Netherlands or of
Indonesia. On the record, there
is good reason to support the
Netherlands rather than the
Indonesians.
“This, however, is not the
definitive consideration. The
question is: Shall the Papuans
of New Guinea have an oppor-
tunity to achieve government by
consent? Under Dutch rule,
we believe, they will have that
chance. Under Indonesian rule
there is less chance of this.
Jakarta has wiped out govern-
ment by consent where there
was a challenge (as in the case
of the South Moluccas) to its
unitary rule.”
Taking a strategic view, Han-
son W. Baldwin, the “N. Y.
Times” military commentator,
adds that “the Indonesian Gov-
ernment, fighting two civil wars
and numerous terrorists and
brigands, theoretically com-
mands an Army of 240,000 men.
But the troops, like the nation,
are divided, and they are, more-
over, dependent upon sea-
transportation and air-cover for
effectiveness. They have
virtually none of either.
“Yet strong sea-power and
air-power have always been the
only means by which an island
empire could be knit into a
nation. It is, and long has been,


The name is
fl) c CdUums
(TrCaUunrt
to#**
Scots (JJKiiVy
:
'Wnoxiy distilled, and blended
" " MC 22/3A
clear that Indonesia is not a
nation in any full sense of the
word. Its Government does not
control the islands effectively;
its people are not homogeneous;
Communist arms and Com-
munist agents move freely by
sea into and out of the country,
and Indonesia is not capable of
withstanding attack from with-
out or of providing internal
stability. Yet this is the ‘nation’
that demands control over
Western New Guinea,
“To grant such a demand
would be strategic madness. For
it would remove from Western
New Guinea and almost cer-
tainly in time from all New
Guinea the protection, not only
actual but implied, of Dutch
and Australian naval, air and
military power. It would add
another area to the vacuum of
power already existing in Indo-
nesia. More important, it would
expose far more openly than it
is exposed now one of the largest
islands in the Pacific to Com-
munist tactics of creeping
conquest.”
Britain's Economic
Future
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer R. A. Butler lately
said that Britain, with policy
properly and soundly run, should
be able to double its standard of
living within the next 25 years.
Disagreeing with him,
economist Colin Clark points out
in London “Daily Telegraph”
that the increase in British pro-
ductivity is slow compared with
that of many other countries,
and that drastic changes in the
present British economic system
would be necessary to double the
standard of living in anything
like 25 years.
If, Clark comments, you take
the whole national economy and
not merely selected branches of
manufacture, and “seek to
compare the actual quantity of
goods and services produced per
man-hour now with that of 1938,
no statistician is likely to
estimate a rise of more than 10
per cent., and my own reckon-
ing is that there has hardly been
a rise at all. In any case, it is
quite clear that almost every
other country is going ahead a
great deal faster.
“Our [Britain’s] economy
seems to be completely de-
vitalised. We should not put all
the blame either on Mr, Butler
or Sir Stafford Cripps, for it is a
state of affairs of long standing
going right back to 1900 (except
during the 1920’5, when a
moderate rate of progress was
recorded).
“Our poor showing compared
with other countries is partly due
to some intangible factors. In
the past half-century both war
and emigration have taken a
heavy toll of the most vigorous
and enterprising men in all walks
of life, who might have made the
most valuable contributions to
their country’s well-being; and
those who remain have found
inadequate opportunity in a
country where the average age
of the population has now
become so high.
“Our educational system
produces very good civil servants
and professional men, but it does
not seem to have produced the
right kind of business leaders,
nor enough of the type of man
needed successfully to fill junior
executive posts in modern
industry.
“But apart from these diffi-
culties, for which the blame, if
any, must rest upon previous
generations, there are further
specific hindrances to economic
progress for which the present
generation alone is responsible.
The abandonment of free-trade
in 1931, and the great growth of
monopolies and price-fixing
associations which inevitably
followed, were disastrous for the
British economy, quite apart
from their effects on the rest of
the world. The first Government
which has the courage to give
British industry the cold-water
treatment will reap abundant
economic results.
“However, just to make sure
that, whatever happened, British
industry should not have a
chance of making any real
economic progress. Sir Stafford
Cripps and Mr. Butler both
decided that it should be loaded
permanently with a rate of taxa-
tion collecting, in all, some 40
per cent, of the net national
product —a rate which no other
free country has ever attempted.
So long as this state of affairs
lasts, we must inevitably expect
sluggish productivity and slowly
but persistently rising costs.
“In any generation, the
number of men who are capable
of being really progressive and
innovating business leaders is
very limited. Our present rates
of taxation make sure that most
of them do not get a chance.
Many who might have played
IT USUALLY—HAPPENS
HAPPENS
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun”
LIKE THIS
this role either emigrate, or pass
their lives in comparative leisure
as gentlemen farmers.”
France
Typical press comment on the
“sick man of Europe”:
Thierry Maulnier, in London
“Encounter”: “It has been a
curious affair, this campaign
against Western European union
by a whole segment of the older
nationalism of France —profes-
sional soldiers hostile by tradi-
tion, training and esprit de corps
to the disappearance of a
sovereign French Army; busi-
nessmen who fear to lose
potential markets in the East or
who are unwilling to face Their
European competitors without
the protection of national
frontiers; patriots clinging to
the memory of a time when
France dealt on an equal foot-
ing with the greatest Powers of
the world; old men anguished
by the image of a new world in
which their habits would be
swept away and their values
subjected to revision; ex-
resistants for whom the mean-
ing of existence was fixed, once
and for all, in the exalted
moment of struggle against the
German occupation, and who
have the feeling that a Franco-
German reconciliation would
transform them into survivors
of a bygone era,”
Paris “Le Figaro”: “Once again
the [French] Assembly is con-
sidering cold-bloodedly reject-
ing a second replacement solu-
tion to the problem of Euro-
pean organisation and of Ger-
man rearmament. The ratifica-
tion of the London and Paris
accords, even if their texts are
far from giving us the guarantees
contained in the E.D.C. —par-
ticularly as far as German
rearmament is concerned —is
categorically imperative for the
French Parliament. A new
refusal would lead us to the
bottom of the abyss.”
Franqois Goguel, in “Foreign
Affairs” {US.A.): “The political
instability of France is not the
inevitable result of some con-
genital incapacity of the French
people to govern themselves
efficiently, but rather of an
economic and social unbalance
which, of course, France should
have perceived long ago, but
which she is now busily trying
to set right. In this view, the
results which we [French] hope
to achieve by modernising our
plant will be at least as import-
ant to our political life as they
will be in the purely economic
field.”
“New York Times” commen-
tator C. L. Sulzberger: “There
is so much overcentralisation in
France that it is virtually impos-
sible to take provincial action
without first referring it to the
stifling bureaucracy of Paris.
Forty years of leapfrogging
inflation have crippled the
instinct to save, industrial invest-
ment and the State’s ability to
borrow. As a result the middle-
class, in whose image the
Republics were devised, has
suffered. The factory plant that
was once Europe’s envy is, on
the whole, shabby, and the level
of production has not risen
adequately.
“The French need more
houses. Industrial and white-
collar wages must be hoisted
without another spiralling in-
crease in national living costs.
Agricultural cultivation must be
modernised to check the adverse
effects of a population-flow
from farm to city. Both indus-
trial plant and agricultural plant
must be brought up to date.
“Mendes-France is by no
means the first post-war leader
to recognise these problems. But
selfish interests and differing
political logics have paralysed
previous efforts at reform. The
swamplike ability of the
Assembly to bog-down energetic
Premiers has been despairingly
successful.
“The great test of Mendes-
France will come when he seeks
to find a path through this
slough of despond that has
trapped so many predecessors.
His performance in the field of
foreign affairs has been more
dramatic than anything he is
likely to accomplish in’ the
tangle of home politics. But it
is there that basic reform is
required to enable France to
regain stature among the
Powers.
“Europe simply cannot be de-
fended without the active par-
ticipation of the French. For
evident reasons of geography,
metropolitan France, control-
ling both shores of the western
Mediterranean, the length of the
Rhine, the Alpine passes and
the extensive network of infra-
structure erected at a cost of
billions by the Nato coalition,
is essential to the protection of
the West. And it might be
argued that, without the active
participation of France’s cul-
ture and tradition, the West
would be less worth protecting.”
Air Glossary
Present-day aircraft, with the
high cost of some of them and
terms applied to them, as listed
in a London “Economist”
glossary:
AIRCRAFT TYPES:
Bomber, light —To be used
mainly for attacking enemy
supply-lines and rear instal-
lations in support of ground-
troops, e.g., Canberra. Cost
£lOO,OOO.
Bomber, medium —Effective over
a range of 3000 miles, e.g.,
Vickers Valiant. Previously de-
scribed as long-range or heavy.
Cost £400,000 to £600,000
according to size and range.
Bomber, long-range or inter-
continental —Range of approxi-
mately 6000 miles, e.g., Ameri-
can 10-engined 836.
Fighter —Basic day - interceptor
capable of sonic or supersonic
speeds. E.g., Swift, Hunter. Cost
£70,000.
Fighter, ground-attack —
Armored version of a day-fighter
with modified sighting-equipment
for attacking ground-targets.
Usual armament is rocket and
bombs. In some countries —e.g.,
France —special aircraft for
ground-attack duties only have
been developed.
Fighter, all-weather —Equipped
with search-radar for locating
enemy aircraft at great altitude
at night, in cloud, or in any other
condition where normal visual
interception is not possible. E.g.,
Gloster Javelin. Cost £120,000.
Fighter, vertical take-off —De-
signed to take off and land ver-
tically or almost vertically with-
out a runway. Sometimes
launched from a ramp. Strictly
experimental.
ENGINES:
Jet—A basically simple engine
of three stages; a compressor to
compress the air ; a combustion-
chamber in which the com-
pressed-air is burned with fuel;
and a turbine in which the hot
combustion-gases are expanded.
Drive comes from the force of
the gases in the jet-pipe. Power
measured in pounds-thrust. Deri-
vatives are:
By-pass —Potentially the most
important advance since the jet
was developed. Consists of a
compressor placed ahead of the
main engine that feeds some par-
tially-compressed air into the
engine, spills the rest round the
outside of the engine into the
jet-pipe. Here it mixes with the
hot jet-gases, slows them down
so that less thrust is wasted in
the air outside the jet-pipe. Gives
a big increase in power for lower
fuel-consumption. E.g., Rolls-
Royce Conway.
Ram-jet —Dispenses with com-
pressor and turbine. Known as
“flying stove-pipe.” Works only
at ultra-high speeds where the
engine moves so rapidly that the
air is “rammed” into it and
automatically compressed. Used
experimentally for some aircraft,
and in miniature on the tips of
helicopter rotors. Needs auxil-
iary power to bring aircraft to
speed at which ram-jet can begin
to function.
Turbo-prop—The jet-turbine is
used to drive a conventional pro-
peller through reduction gearing.
Power measured in horse-power
plus some residual jet-thrust.
Engines are sometimes
“coupled,”
FUEL:
Aviation gasoline —For piston-
engines. In the region of 130
octane; high-grade petrol plus
exceedingly light oil-fractions.
Turbine fuel, civil —Kerosene.
Turbine fuel, military —A com-
bination of kerosene and low-
grade petrol. Known as “wide-
cut” fuel. Used not for technical
reasons but because the amount
of kerosene contained in every
ton of crude oil is limited, and
serious shortage would occur in
war-time.
Rocket fuels —Various chemi-
cals, Industrial-alcohol, hydro-
gen-peroxide, liquid-oxygen, etc.
SPEED:
Mach number —The principal
measure of speed. The speed of
the aircraft divided by the speed
of sound. When both are equal,
the aircraft is flying at Mach 1.
At Mach 0.9 the aircraft is at
less than the speed of sound ; at
Mach 2, at twice the speed of
sound.
Speed of sound —At sea-level,
760 miles an hour, falling
roughly miles an hour with
every 1000 ft. of altitude up to
36,000 ft.
T rans-sonic —An important
range of speed that begins at
about Mach 0.9, when some of
the air flowing over the wings
reaches sonic speed, and ends
in the region of Mach 1.2 to 1.8
(depending on design), when all
the air passing over the aircraft
has reached sonic speed. Flying
conditions in this region are
comparatively difficult.
Various Voices
Sir Winston Churchill: “The
further you go to the Left the
more rigid, and rigorous party
discipline becomes, until ulti-
mately, in countries where Com-
munism rules, only one party is
allowed to exist and whole
peoples are ordered to think
alike or at least keep their
mouths shut like obedient serfs.”
M. Mendes-France: “In the
great struggle of the free world
against totalitarianism France is
in the front-line. She is as
exposed to propaganda and sub-
versive infiltration as she is to
military aggression. In fact,
aggression by force is less likely
in Europe than an insidious con-
spiracy that could foster a
destructive fifth-column.”
British Parliamentary Secretary
to the Ministry of Labor and
National Service Harold Wat-
kinson: “There is and will
remain a small minority in the
trade-union movement dedicated
to fermenting industrial unrest
by all means within their power.
There are certainly no signs of
peaceful co-existence between
Communism and the free world
on the industrial front.”
John Foster Dulles: “We [the
U.S.] believe that the greatest
contribution we can make to
peace is to be ready to fight, if
need be, and to have the
resources and the allies to assure
that an aggressor would surely
be defeated. That does not mean
being truculent or provocative or
militaristic. It does mean seek-
ing peace not only with the heart,
but also with the mind.”


pushed away some papers, leaned
back and took the pipe out of
his mouth. “This Dr. Grantley
is very annoyed about your
article in yesterday afternoon's
paper. In fact, he’s furious. He
wanted to know where you got
your information, and said that
he’ll dismiss the person who gave
it to you as soon as he finds out.
Of course I didn’t tell him any-
thing. I told him it was our duty
to print the news.”
“Did you tell him I wrote it?”
“No ; we don’t give informa-
tion like that to outsiders. But
I think he knows. He particu-
larly asked that no young women
should be sent to interview him
again.” There was a ghost of a
twinkle in the editor’s blue eyes.
“How did you get the story?”
“Well —I have a friend who’s a
resident, and he has a friend in
radiology . . . and then I saw
some papers on his desk.”
“H’m.” Mr. Percival looked
judiciously at his pipe. “You
know the rule about all informa-
tion coming through the medical
superintendent. Apparently the
board didn’t like the expenditure,
and they wanted to keep it dark
for a while. We’ll be lucky if we
ever get any news from there
again.”
“It was always like getting
blood out of a stone.”
“Anyway, I think it would be
advisable for you to retire from
that particular scene for the
present. It was a good story, all
the same. Scooped the
‘Register.’ ”
Molly’s brown eyes were like
an eager spaniel’s. They would
at last put her on court-cases or
police-rounds, a man’s world
where life was real and full of
color . . . She waited hopefully.
The editor puffed reflectively
at his pipe for a moment. “Yes,
I’ve got a new job for you.
You’d like a change, wouldn’t
you?”
She made an inarticulate
noise.
“Well, the editor of the
children’s supplement is going
on long leave for three months,
and I want someone to take it
over, I think you could do it
very well. You’ll have to make
up your own pages out on the
stone. It’ll be good experience
for you. And you can write an
imaginary story each week, con-
tinuing the Adventures of Twip
and Twiggle, That should just
suit you, eh?”
He put his pipe buck between
his teeth and turned to look at a
proof of an early page that had
just been brought in. Molly
heard the iron finality beneath
the friendliness of his tone.
“Yes, Mr. Percival,” she said
bitterly, resolving to put in an
expense account which would
return her five pounds.
C|HE walked slowly down the
corridor to the composing-
room, pausing to look at the
stone, the high benches where
separate lines of type and solid
blocks of pictures were fitted like
jigsaw-puzzles into pages. She
stood by the door, unconscious
that under the blue daylight-
lamps her hair had turned a
ghastly yellow, her lipstick a
weird purple.
This strange, exciting “room,”
as big as a small factory, with
its smells of hot metal and wet
paper, its clicking linotype-
machines and leather-aproned,
black-fisted compositors, would
become her world for one day a
week. Her own pages! She
felt a thrill of importance.
Going through the back of the
room and out the far door to the
other corridor she met Roma
hurrying along with a sheaf of
galley-proofs flying from her
hand like streamers. Roma
always made-up her own pages.
Molly leant against the wall in
a dramatic attitude of despair.
“What’s up, Stan?”
“My career as a journalist is
finished! Next week I shall be
Uncle Timothy of the children’s
supplement. I have to write the
history of Twip and Twiggle. I
have to send out Purple and Pink
Certificates to the tiny-tots.”
She groaned and clutched her
hair.
“Well, I don’t see what you’re
moaning about,” said Roma
unfeelingly. “You were always
wanting more color in your life.”
Shamon's Foolish
way
by E. Dithmack
BACK in the early ’nineties,
before the simple folk of
Lawson’s Flat ever
dreamed that motor-cars
and aeroplanes would become
part of their descendants’ daily
existence, the only means of
travel was by horse and buggy
or on foot.
Whenever there was to be a
school-picnic or a dance in some-
one’s barn, the Regans and
O’Connors, the McPhersons and
Macleans, the Sublowskis and
Werners and those with English-
sounding names would turn up
in anything from drays and
buggies to riders-on-horseback,
their various dialects mingling in
talk and laughter.
They were the settlers in the
district, all fine, hard-working
people who, although they might
feel like taking a calf or two at
times, or helping themselves to a
few bags of corn, were on the
whole honest and very kind.
Michael O’Connor lived on a
farm eight miles from town,
together with his strapping wife
and/five young children, and for
a family outing he would harness
up his horse Shannon, put him
between the shafts of a buggy
and set off to visit friends.
But there were times, you must
understand, when Mr. O’Connor
liked to travel alone.
After a month of hard work
and not a drop of anything to
drink left in the house, Mr.
O’Connor thought he would like
a day in town; so one fine
October morning he saddled
Shannon and swung himself into
the seat. His wife Molly came
to the sliprails to see him off,
and give some last-minute
instructions about things she
wanted from town.
“Now, Molly, me girl,”
Michael said, “don’t be scared
if I’m not back be dark, but I’ll
be home some time before morn-
ing, God willing, ye can be sure
of that. When it gets dark turn
Rocco loose, and if they thieves
come along trying to get a calf,
just sool him on to them. And
the gun’s in the corner.”
“I’ll be right, Michael,” she
assured him. “Don’t forget the
bull’s-eyes for the children, and
the laces for me shoes, and what-
ever time ye come home I’ll be
here to greet ye.”
“A nice, loving wife,” thought
Mr. O’Connor, and set off with a
light heart along the dusty road
to town. Here and there he
pulled up at farms to have a word
with neighbors and comment on
crops and weather, so that it was
mid-morning before he, reached
the hotel on the outskirts of the
town and stopped to quench his
thirst. That took some time,
naturally ; then he went on to
the shops where he had to make
some purchases and transact a
little business. And also, he had
to stall and feed his horse until
he should be ready to return
home.
\X/ELL, any man knows how
the hours will fly when a
few friends meet in town and a
few drinks are taken. There are
yarns that go on and on and
Time hides behind mischievous
hands so that no one knows the
hours are fleeing. And there's
Care tucked away in a corner and
Responsibility getting out by the
door so that a man can’t be
blamed if he forgets everything
but the present.
And so it was with Michael.
It turned out a very hot day,
and late in the afternoon a storm
worked up in the west. There
was thunder rumbling and light-
ning cutting the sky, and Mr.
O’Connor could see that heavy
rain was falling up-country half
an hour before it reached the
town. Then there were hail and
wind and great pelting drops of
rain that kept up until the gullies
were running like small rivers.
“Ye can’t go home in this,
Mike,” his friends said, and Mr.
O’Connor agreed. He knew it
was only a storm and would
presently clear away, so he
decided to stay at the hotel for
tea, and have a few more drinks
and enjoy a little more company.
Like as not it would be a while
before he saw town again, what
with work and everything.
By nine-o’clock the stars were
shining and the clouds had gone.
The air was cool and riding home
would be very pleasant, Mr.
O’Connor thought, but down at
the creek which would have to
be crossed before he reached
the main road, he could hear the
water rushing.
“A bit of a fresh,” he thought.
“Must have been a cloud-burst
further up.” But a rushing creek
was nothing to stop a bushman
like Michael from crossing.
He saddled his horse, put the
bull’s-eyes and laces in the
saddlebag along with sundry
other things, and rode down to
the creek There was an elderly
moon shouldering its way into
the sky, and by its light Mr,
O’Connor could see that there
certainly was a fresh in the creek.
The water was rushing and
swirling, covering the crossing
so that it was indistinguishable.
“Shure and I’ll swim old
Shannon across and hang on to
the saddle,” Michael thought. “It
won’t be the first time we’ve
done it, and bedad I hope it
won’t be the last.”
There were no houses in the
vicinity, so he began to undress,
taking off all his clothes except
his black cashmere socks. He
wrapped his clothes in a bundle
and fastened them up on the
saddle; then, grasping a stirrup-
leather, he urged his horse into
the water.
It was not a very wide creek ;
and both horse and man being
strong swimmers, they got safely
across. On the other bank Mr.
O’Connor stood for a moment
to let the water drip from his
body and regain his normal
breathing before putting on his
dry clothes. When at last he
reached up to unfasten the
bundle, the horse looked round
and saw, plain in the moonlight,
an apparition so strange, so
unfamiliar, that he snorted and
sprang away in fright.
“Here, what’s the matter?”
Mr. O’Connor said roughly.
“Come back, y’ silly fool—it’s
only me. Come back when I
tell ye and stand still now.”
AT sound of the well-known
voice the horse waited,
trembling from its recent fright,
and Mr. O’Connor padded
towards it. When he was almost
within reach the horse glanced
round and saw again the strange
apparition—bare shining body
with outheld arms and black feet
and shins. It was too much for
Shannon. He gave a terrified
snort and galloped away, putting
as much distance between himself
and the menace as possible.
Thoroughly angered by now,
Mr. O’Connor ran after him and
called, but each time he got
within grasping distance the
horse would turn, take another
horrified look and gallop on
again.
It was not long before they
had gone a mile in this way,
Mike’s feet slipping in the mud
and nearly throwing him. Now
he discarded anger for wheedling,
then wheedling for reason ; but
* it was always the same. Shannon
would wait, hearing his master’s
voice, but always at the critical
moment he would look round,
see the frightening figure and
gallop on again.
“Shannie, me lad,” Michael
called coaxingly, “it’s me ye’re
running away from. Shure and
ye must know if ye’ll only wait.
Wait now, me sweet lamb, and
I’ll put on me trousers and shirt
and ye’ll know at once who
I am.”
But Shannon wouldn’t wait.
The long road was travelled
home, mile by weary mile, with
no sign of help or life except for
the dogs that came running out
to bark and sniff around his bare
legs. And all the time there was
mud and slush and streams to
wade through until he felt cold to
the very marrow.
Once, when they were about
half-way home and Shannon’s
friskiness had settled down to
sedateness, he allowed Michael
to get within touching distance.
By dodging first to one side and
then to the other each time the
horse looked round, Michael was
able to put his hand on the rump,
then slide it along until he had
grasped the saddle; and rescue
seemed quite sure. As he reached
for the bridle, Shannon saw the
awful sight and, throwing back
his head, gave one startled leap
forward and was off again, leav-
ing Michael mud-spattered and
swearing futilely.
“Ye wait!” he roared. “Ye
damned blithering fool, just ye
wait! When I get home I’ll take
a paling off the fence, and I’ll
lamb ye until the hide is off
y’r back. Ye’ll suffer for this,
me boy—shure and ye’ll suffer!”
But threats made no more
impression on Shannon than
wheedlings. A long way off were
the rails leading to home and
safety and a good feed. There
he would find his master and
leave behind this strange
pursuing threat. He fell into a
slow jogtrot while far behind
Mr. O’Connor came on, limping,
weary and frustrated.
Only a mile from home now.
The house was on a rise, and
from the road he could see the
iron roof shining in the moon-
light, Everywhere there were
stars shining and a moon, cloud-
driven, rushing down the sky.
Only a mile, but never had a
mile seemed so long or home so
desirable,
TV/fOLLY had said she’d be
there to greet him, and now
he imagined her running out to
throw her arms around him and
sympathise with him in his plight.
She’d take him in and light the
fire; get hot water for a wash
and make a cup of tea.
He saw Shannon waiting at the
rails, and heard Rocco bark.
Rocco kept on barking spasmodi-
cally until Michael was within
reach of the rails. Then
Shannon shied away and
whinnied his distress. The dog
came rushing out, bristles up and
teeth bared with such terrible
menace that Michael shinned
up the nearest tree out of reach.
“Get out, you fool,” he roared.
“Don’t ye know me either?”
A light came out to the
veranda and a threatening voice
called, “Who’s there?”
“Call this blasted dog off and
I’ll soon show ye who’s here,”
Michael roared.
The light moved to the edge
of the veranda, and he could see
Molly in her nightgown with a
double-barrelled gun in her hand.
“Go away from there or I’ll
shoot,” she called. “D’ ye hear?
Go away or I’ll shoot—and I
mean it.”
“By damn ye’ll do no such
thing. Call the dog off or I’ll
wring his yapping neck.”
The only answer was an
explosion from the gun. A
pepper of shot sprayed away
from the target, but was near
enough to let him know that
Molly meant business. Rocco
was still barking at the foot of
of the tree, and Michael’s bare
legs clung to the rough bough.
Between shouting to the dog and
keeping his legs out of reach he
called advice to Molly,
“It’s me —Michael. For the
love of God call this blasted dog
off and put away that gun. It’s
me—Michael—-d’ ye under-
stand? Michael —y’r husband —
Mike!”
“Leave those calves and get
out,” Molly ordered. “If ye don’t
I’ll let ye have both barrels of
lead.”
“It’s y’r husband, ye silly
fool,” Michael roared, “Molly
—Molly, darlin’, call Rocco off
and get me to the house.”
There was a momentary lull
while this information seeped
through to Molly’s mind, but she
was still uncertain. She called
Rocco off and then asked
suspiciously, “And what are ye
doing up the tree, may I ask?”
“I’ve lost me trousers, and the
dog don’t know me from a thief.
Molly—help me in, there’s a
darlin’.”
Mrs. O’Connor threw the gun
aside and ran to the tree, where
Rocco was again barking
savagely. She picked up a stick
and ordered him inside, but
anger was turned to horror when
she saw Michael’s bare legs come
down the tree.
“In the name of Jasus what’s
this?” she asked. “Are ye mad,
Michael, or drunk? Or are ye
having a joke?”
“Neither, Molly, me girl, but
I swam the creek and Shannon
ran home with me clothes.”
“Ah, Michael, me poor
fellow! ”• She pitied him. “And
look at the mud all over ye.
When it rained so I didn’t expect
ye back until tomorrow, and
thought it was they Regans after
the calves. Come inside do and
let me clean ye up.”
Mr. O’Connor limped wearily
up to the house. He wasn t
thinking of beer and good-
companionship now, but only of
home comforts.
“Molly, me girl, light the fire
and put on the kettle for tea,” he
begged. “And get me a clean
shirt and trousers and socks for
me poor sore feet.”
But while she was bustling
about he was thinking, “A fine
way to welcome a man indeed,
with a double-barrelled gun.
She’s as bad as Shannon and
Rocco. Ye wouldn’t think
clothes could mean so much! ”
THE MOUNTAIN
The black and rearing mountain
Shakes its topmost tree
As an old woman shakes her um-
brella,
Darkly, angrily.
The men who live in the valley
Fear the long shadow
Of the mountain, falling across
Small wood and meadow.
Their fears make the soil run
sour;
Their love has reservations;
Life, instead of a joy, becomes
A social obligation.
O men, live in your valley;
Forget the crawling shadow,
For beauty and love are caught
within
The green net of your meadows.
And when you raise your eyes,
Look over the ebony mountain
To the brilliant yellow of the sun
And the spiral skylark, mounting.
VIC. C. WALLACE-CRABBE.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO JOHN McCREADY. —TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGINA JOSEPHINE Mc-
CREADY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4403 of 1954 on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 28th day of
February 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO BETTY HELEN WILLY formerly of
84 Oxford Street North Geelong in the
State of Victoria AND TO GERALD GRANT
formerly of Douro Street North Geelong
in the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE HENRY WILLY of 34
Oxford Street North Geelong in the State
of Victoria has instituted proceedings
against you BETTY HELEN WILLY for
Divorce on the ground of adultery and has
named you GERALD GRANT as Co-Re-
spondent therein UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Deputy Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court at Geelong on
or before the Fourth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and fifty-five and
file an answer at the said office on or be-
fore 14th February 1955 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
HOMESTEADS AND COUNTRY
cottages TO YOUR DESIGN
' r %
mmzm
p*
m . ;
Above:—A Bowas 2-storey homestead situated in North-West Queensland
BOWAS patented CONSTRUCTION
offers you these advantages — *
The simplicity and ease of timber-
frame construction plus the strength,
rigidity and durability of steel.
A solid,' permanent structure not
affected by dry rot or white ants.
A building easily dismantled,
re-erected or added to.
Consult our architects for any floor
plan and design, single or two storey,
for Bowas Homesteads, Country
Cottages and Rural Accommodation
buildings.
BOWAS
features—
Patented steel •
wood-steel frame
members, precision
cut to size and
assembled by
bolting.
All walls inside
and out — flooring,
roofing, etc. nailed
on as in timber-
frame construction.
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Manufacturers of the famous Sidney Williams Steel-Fraim buildings
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.). Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM5204, LM7886
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833
the Bank of New South Wales
was founded in Wylde’s office.
Through the old building’s
portals the stream of history has
flowed for 140 years and one
month. Every great statesman
of New South Wales has found
its front-door his portal to fame
and fortune. There is no build-
ing in Australia which has such
a history or such associations —
with D’Arcy Wentworth, who,
as the first controller of the
police fund, used it as his
treasury ; with his son, who made
his exit there when he took the
Constitution Bill to London a
century ago; with Parkes, Reid,
Hughes.
It seems that, of them all,
only Mr. Cahill is to prove
deadly to it. Soon, if he has his
way, it will be no more. The
ghost of Lachlan Macquarie—
ranging the Eastern Hill, and
laughing to himself about the
ruse by which he put the bridle
on the rum-trade, paved the way
for the introduction of a silver
currency and at the same time
got almost free of cost a huge
hospital, ample Government-
offices and a chaplain’s house
out of the liquor interests while
doing it—will gaze on it no
more. In its place there will
rise something more fitting to
the Cahill-McGirr tradition,
ornate, expensive; something
that no contractor is likely to
go bankrupt over.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought
Who discovered radar ?
Sir Robert Watson Watt, bom at
Brechin, in the Grampians (Scotland)
on April 13, 1892. He himself does
not claim to have ‘..‘discovered” it,
and says that many others “made ft
to happen.” However, he must get
the major share of the credit,. It was
his proposal which launched in 1935
the project culminating in the dis-
covery of radar, and on his “note of
hand” was based the programme
which had cost £10 million before the
outbreak of World War II and
which, before the end, had cost more
than the “Manhattan Project” which
produced the atom-bomb. Youngest
son of a joiner, Watson Watt was
educated at Brechin High (where he
developed a great love of literature
and writing which nearly took him
away from the scientific career he
was to follow) and at University
College, Dundee, where he got a
degree with distinction in electrical
engineering. During World War 1
and afterwards he worked on
numerous scientific problems associ-
ated with radio; for instance, he went
to the Sudan to study the radio-
characteristics of tropical thunder-
storms, and to the Arctic for radio-
observations of the ionosphere. In
1937, on a rumor that the Germans
had already discovered radio-location
(radar), he and his wife “on a walking-
tour” found that it was a “false-
alarm.” His own work on radar,
then going ahead rapidly, was soon
to be finalised, and the British had
the great advantage over Germany
of having radar at the outbreak of
war in 1939. Radar was supremely
important to Britain’s winning the
Battle of Britain. Watson Watt, also
a writer and broadcaster, has been
described as “a poet in physics.”
* * * *
(!) Did the Hebrews have a method
of recording music ? (2) Did the
ancient Greeks have any method?
(3) Is the music of the songs sung in
the Temple still used in the churches
today ?
(1) The Hebrews (also the ancient
Egyptians, Persians, Assyrians, etc.)
had no notation (i.e., no system of
recording musical details by means
of symbols). However, records in
stone and in the Scriptures attest that
the nations of ancient time made
much use of music in both religious
and secular life. Egypt is believed to
have been the centre of ritual in
music, and undoubtedly influenced
Hebrew, Greek and early Christian
music. Most of our knowledge of
the Hebrews’ music comes from the
Old Testament. The songs in the
Temple were sung in antiphonal
style—usually a singer chanting,
observing the rhythm carefully, the
worshippers listening in silence, then
uniting in the responses. (Their scale
was the chromatic one of whole and
half steps, same as ours.) Hebrew
psalms are in rhythmical but un-
rhymed verse, most frequently of a
three-beat line. The percussive musi-
cal accompaniment (e.g., cymbals)
was designed chiefly to synchronise the
beats. (2) The Greeks had the oldest
system of notation known. They had
three kinds of scales (diatonic,
chromatic and enharmonic); but to
make any sense of Greek music the
intervals on the scale must be
reckoned downward, not rising, as
in our harmonic system (authority
Encyc. Brit.) Actually, little sense
can be made of ancient Greek music.
To quote the Encyc. Brit, again, “We
may be perfectly sure that if the
Greeks had produced a music equiva-
lent to the art of Palestrina, Bach or
Beethoven, no difficulty of deciphering
would have long prevented us from
recovering as much of it as we have
recovered of Greek literature.. • •
When Monro published his Modes of
Ancient Greek Music in 1894, musi-
cians had learnt too well the lesson
that Greek music must not be
expected to make sense.” (3) The
ancient plainsongs were the repository
of melody, and many are thought to
have come uncorrupted from the
music of Solomon’s temple. In a.d.
384 a large body of these “tones”
was set in order by St. Ambrose, and
later St. Gregory revised and en-
larged the Ambrosian collection.
The whole corpus of Gregorian music
familiarises Roman Catholics of today
with a music enormously more
ancient in origin than any harmony.
Many of the hymns and psalms of
today are therefore very ancient.
• * * *
Who was Phcedra ?
In Greek legend, the daughter of
Minos, the king of Crete, and
Pasiphae, and wife of Theseus. She
fell in love with her stepson Hippo-
lytus, son of Theseus by the Amazon
queen Antiope (or, in some versions,
her sister Hippolyte). He flouted her,
and in shame and frenzy Phaedra
hanged herself, attaching to her wrist
a tablet accusing Hippolytus of
ravishment. Theseus, discovering* the
tablet, called on Poseidon to destroy
Hippolytus. The god sent a sea-
monster which terrified the horses of
Hippolytus, who was dragged along
in his chariot and killed by the sea-
shore. His innocence was discovered
after his death. In another version
Phaedra does not kill herself till after
the establishment of his innocence.
The “Hippolytus” of Euripides,
Seneca’s “Phaedra” and Racine’s
“Phedre” are tragedies on the theme.
♦ * ♦ *
Some information on one-time
N.S.W. batsman J. R. M. Mackay?
The late “Sunny Jim” Mackay was,
according to A. G. Moyes in Aus-
tralian Batsmen, “undoubtedly one of
the most gifted players who never
represented Australia, and a much
finer batsman than many who did....
He was a Test-match batsman in all
but actual fact.” In the 1905-06
season he made a century in each
innings for N.S.W. against South
Australia, batting with M. A. Noble
and not suffering in comparison. In
the same season he made 194 against
Victoria and 203 against Queensland
(which was not then in the Sheffield
Shield competition). He played alto-
gether in eight Shield games, making
727 runs (top-score the 194), average
55.9. His cricketing skill left him
after he was badly injured in a cycle
accident in South Africa.
* * * *
What income-limit and property-
qualification prevent a person receiv-
ing the old-age pension ?
Old-age pension is not payable if
a person has (u) an income of £7 or
more a week if single, or, if married,
a combined income of £l4 or more a
week; or (6) property of a net value
exceeding £1750 if single or of a total
net value exceeding £3500 for hus-
band and wife. “Income” includes
earnings and income from any source
except income from property, gifts or
allowances from parents or children,
benefits from friendly-societies, pay-
ments in respect of illness or infirmity,
value of State food-relief or like
assistance and Commonwealth bene-
fits such as child-endowment, hospital
benefits, medical benefits, etc. “Pro-
perty” includes houses, land, money
(in hand, in a bank, invested or lent),
bonds, stocks, shares, interest in
estates, livestock and vehicles other
than for personal use. (Mortgage or
charge on property is allowed as a
deduction from its value.)
* * * *
Information on (I) the attack by
blacks on Mornington Island mission,
(2) the Fraser massacre ?
(1) In 1915, the Presbyterian mission
on Mornington Island was besieged
for over a week by semi-civilised
blacks; their first act was to murder
Hall, the missioner in charge, with a
tomahawk while sleeping in his tent.
(2) The massacre of 13 members of
the Fraser family (including servants
and shepherds) was in December,
1857. The Frasers owned Hornet
Bank, 250 miles west of Maryborough
(Q.), in the Dawson River country —
the Dawson blacks were among the
most warlike and treacherous of
blacks. There was only one survivor,
16-year-old “West” Fraser, who suf-
fered severe injuries. The eldest son,
William Fraser, was absent at the
time; he later held a commission in
the Queensland Native Police, with
long and honorable service. It was
William Fraser who, legally or
illegally, exacted bloody retribution
from the guilty tribes.
• * * •
(i) Information on Australian poet
J. B. O’Hara ? (2) Appraisal as a
poet?
(1) Born at Bendigo (Vic.) on Oct.
29, 1862, educated at Carlton College
and Ormond College (Melb. Univers-
ity), he was appointed lecturer in
mathematics and natural philosophy
at Ormond College in 1886, ana in
1889 became headmaster of South
Melbourne College. He published his
first volume of poems, Songs of the
South, in 1891. Other volumes in-
clude Songs of the South, Second
Series (1895), Lyrics of Nature (1899),
A Book of Sonnets (1902), Odes and
Lyrics (1906) and The Poems of John
Bernard O’Hara, a Selection (1918).
In his youth he was a skilful pennant-
cricketer. He died on March 31,
1927. (2) All his works were favor-
ably received by the press, and in
1919 a critic in “The Times Literary
Supplement” spoke of him as “a
singer who takes his place in the
company of representative English
poets.” However, that is an over-
estimation. Though his verse was
always readable, his sonnets good and
his nature poems charming, and what
he had to say was often beautifully
expressed, he cannot be given a really
high place among Australian poets.
Brief Answers
C.M.A.: Value of your antique
clock could only be determined by
inspection G.N.M.M.: Write
Main Roads Department, 309 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney Mary W.:
Get in touch with Angus and Robert-
son, 89 Castlereagh-street; Currawong
Publishing Cos., 3 Castlereagh-street;
Shakespeare Head Press, Pty., Ltd.,
149 Castlereagh-street—all Sydney; or
F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd., 338 Little
Collins-stireet; Georgian House Pty.,
Ltd., 431 Bourke-street; Robertson
and Mullens, Ltd., 107-113 Elizabeth-
street —all Melbourne John H.:
No basis of ranking or comparison
between a ship’s chief-engineer and a
railways mechanical-engineer Miss
N.D.: L. E. Mole, an Australian, in
1912 submitted a design for a track-
driven fighting-vehicle to the British
War Office. F. Mitchell, in Tank
Warfare, says: “In its pivoted ends
and flexible chain-tracks for steering
a curved course it seems to have been
superior to the tank.” However that
may be, the design was not seriously
considered, and it played no part in
the actual development of the tank
during 1914-18....R.A.W.; Profits
from the N-S.W. State lottery are paid
into Consolidated Revenue —in
1953-54, £3,844,510. Subsidies and
assistance to hospitals in 1953-54
(N.S.W.), paid out of Consolidated
Revenue, amounted to £14,292,272.
Hobo: Writing direct re value of
your coins.,. .W.J.W.: Goddard
(captain), Stollmeyer (vice-captain),
Marshall and Atkinson, of the last
West Indies cricket-team to visit Aus-
tralia, were of British or North
European descent. Others (Gomez,
Christiani, Rae, etc.) were of Spanish
or Portuguese descent. The rest or
the team were full-blooded negroes
(Weekes, Walcott, Jones, Valentine and
others). Goddard stated in Sydney,
as quoted in Miller and Whitington’s
Straight Hit!, “All the members of
my team, white, brown and black, are,
regardless of their color, on the same
level The colored members of my
team are gentlemen, and I treat them
as such” 1.5.: Your guess is as
good as ours. There seem to be so
many “influential bodies” able to
impress Governments with their
desires that no man knoweth with any
certainty who is which J.C.:
Christmas-bush is very subject to
attack by borer, which may be
causing the trouble; another cause
may be that, if it is exposed to
southerly or north-easterly wind, the
tree may have been affected with salt-
spray (at Bondi, N.S.W.). Christmas-
bush is sensitive to salt, and enough
may be blown in during a gale to
deposit on the leaves and cause some
tip-burning and shoot die-back. Rain
which washes the salt off the leaves is
beneficial, or, if the weather is dry,
the tree should be regularly sprayed
with water.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.W.P.: Rhapsodies on scenery
cramp the characters and kill the
interest... .E.T.: You’ve almost
dislocated the long arm of coincidence.
R.T.H.: All that subtlety seems
wasted on a cat L.F.: When did
you hear a cow-cocky refer to his
milkers as “dreamy-eyed kine”?....
. ...A.S.A.: Lost in a morass of
polysyllables... .G.K.S.: Timid and
conventional C.L.S.: Promising;
write out of your own experience
and don’t be doleful S.O’S.:
“Please be brutally frank and
tell me just what you think of
‘A Night at King’s Cross.’”
D.S.M.: Piling on adjectives such as
“majestic” and “awe-inspiring” and
varying them with “titanic summits”
and “breathtaking panoramas”
doesn’t make your hills and valleys
any better W.D.E.: “The Bitter
Pill” has been swallowed by the
w.p.b L.T.: Both weaklings.
K.J.: “Why does a creative
writer bum the midnight oil, break-
ing his heart, searing his soul, wring-
ing golden words from blood and
sweat, for the jeering, unheeding
mob?” Why indeed?... .R.F.: As a
character, the pea-and-thimble mer-
chant has possibilities, but the story
is diffuse where it should be crisp,
and weak-kneed where it should be
virile E.V.: Dialect of purely
etymological interest M.P.: Be
sparing with the adjectives NJ.D.:
Philosophical swaggie has been hang-
ing around that bush shanty these 50
years T.L.: Let your characters
speak for themselves S.M.R.:
Have you ever seen a bushfire?
S.C.J.: Don’t explain your jokes so
conscientiously... .W.A.: “I tremble
to think of the problems confronting
the nation.” You should also tremble
to think of the problems confronting
the poet F.W.: Composed with
the aid of a cookery-book and a
copy of Masefield’s “Cargoes”....
H.L.: “I thought of it at Manly
recently, when the water was incredibly
blue.” Incredibly watery, t 00....
R. 8.: Nothing new about your
brave new world... .T.G.: Cowboys
and Indians are outside our territory,
pard C. 8.5.: Too much erudition
has a stunning effect on the reader.
V.B.T.: That forlorn lady has
a habit of bobbing up every now
and again, and you, too, fail to
make her real W.N.:
daughter disappeared over the G.r.U.
on a broomstick 8.G.: It you
really feel like that about Milly don t
show her your poetry P.C.: “The
Rooster” suggests you would do
better with poultry than poetry.


KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too — 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
* %
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
df
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEiA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for S 3 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (QTand), Sanders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St, Adelaide.
W.A.; R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth,
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St, Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St, Hobart, also Launceston
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St, Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St..
Auckland.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
illus
The attachment
trated is the
“ FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State _
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazeos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
VIC. : Grazeos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TA8.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. S. Aust.:
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St., Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
AIR BEEF
TN the far north of Western
A Australia there is a vast arek
which presents one of the world’s
toughest transportation and
communication problems. It is
a vast area, with a rich
potentiality which makes it
worth inhabiting and develop-
ing: fertile soils and tracts of
first-class grazing country.
The one factor which has
always held back full develop-
ment has been transport.
The white inhabitants of this
area remain few and scattered.
Surface-transport facilities are
scant and, such as they are, close
down completely in the wet-
season. Even the most visionary
Government could scarcely find
justification for committing
itself to the tremendous cost
which would be involved in pro-
viding rail or road facilities to
service such a sparsely inhabited
area. The Kimberley area is
considerably larger than the
State of Victoria, but to give the
Kimberleys the equivalent of
Victoria’s railroad facilities
would cost over £9O million—
hardly worth it for an area
carrying one white man to every
400 sq. miles.
The Kimberley area produces
the cattle, but the problem in the
past has been to market them.
It has been necessary to walk
beef-cattle hundreds of miles to
market-outlets; losses were
high, and deterioration heavy.
And cattle need to be fit in the
first place to tackle such walks.
Thousands of head of cattle
which could not be expected to
survive being driven over
journeys of as much as 1200
miles to market were left on the
hands of the grower. They were
useless, worse than valueless.
They took up space, ate grass,
drank water and finally died. It
was an extravagantly wasteful
system.
The only possible solution was
air-transport, and the new order
is epitomised in the work
achieved in a few recent years by
Air Beef.
The basic conception of Air
Beef is to bring the slaughtering
to the cattle rather than the cattle
to the slaughtering.
lan Grabowsky, a distin-
guished World War I pilot who
later was chief pilot with New
Guinea’s pioneer airline, Guinea
Airways, is the man who had the
original bright idea. With
Guinea Airways Grabowsky
experimented early with the
aerial transport of beef, and as
long ago as 1936 he approached
the Commonwealth Government
with a scheme for slaughtering
beef inland where it was grown,
and transporting it to market-
outlets by air.
That is essentially what is
being done today by Air Beef
Pty., Ltd., from its centre of
operations at Glenroy, up in the
Kimberleys.
May, 1949, marked the incep-
tion of the scheme. Glenroy
station, right in the heart of the
Kimberleys and virtually in-
accessible for surface transport,
was an ideal spot to choose to
thoroughly test the practicability
of the scheme.
In the past, cattle from
Glenroy and its neighboring
stations had to be walked close
on 300 miles to Wyndham: a
journey which took a month
when conditions were favorable
by local standards, and resulted
in heavy wastage and mortality
among the stock being driven.
It has been estimated that
four- to five-weeks’ droving
along typical Kimberley stock-
routes will strip 501 b. to 1001 b.
off a beast, and the loss in quality
is severe. In an average season
only 25 per cent, of the beef
handled at Wyndham is passed
as first-class export - quality
(unless, of course, it is beef de-
livered by air from Glenroy, in
which case the average of first-
class export-quality soars to 50
per cent.).
The proprietors of Glenroy
and neighboring stations had
arrived at something of a dead-
end. They could see no prospects
of increasing the numbers and
quality of their herds without
more effective turn-off; and there
had seemed no prospect of
achieving this. The chance of
any serviceable road ever being
built through the area was pretty
remote; and, anyway, it is
doubtful whether such a road
would increase production to
any significant extent.
Air Beef, when the idea was
explained, seemed the solution.
Gordon Blythe, the present
managing-director of Air Beef,
was particularly keen, Blythe’s
grandfather took up Glenroy and
Mount House stations towards
the turn of the century.
The company—Air Beef Pty.,
Ltd. —was formed towards the
end of 1948. Initial capital was
contributed in equal amounts by
the Macßobertson-Miller Avia-
tion Co. (which operates the
Perth-Darwin service and pro-
vided the beef-freighter), Aus-
tralian National Airways, and a
group of local pastoralists.
In addition, the Western Aus-
tralian Government made avail-
able a loan of £lO,OOO, interest-
free, for three years. This helped
to meet the initial cost of the
Glenroy works, with its abattoirs,
living-quarters, messing, recrea-
tion facilities and all the other
requirements of a self-contained
community. Also made available
to Air Beef, by the Government-
owned meatworks at Wyndham,
freezers and a refrigeration-
truck to transport carcasses the
six miles from the aerodrome.
As first established, Air Beef
planned for an annual killing
season of 20 weeks, during which
4500 cattle were to be treated.
The company was to buy the
cattle from surrounding stations,
pay for them according to grad-
ing after slaughter, then meet all
costs of treatment, transport and
handling at Wyndham. A team
of 25 men were to operate the
Glenroy plant.
Owing to various setbacks, the
target figures were not achieved
in 1949, the first year of opera-
tion, when the number of cattle
handled by Air Beef was only
1805. In 1950, though, the total
rose to 3653, and in 1951 to
4079.
However, it was in 1952 that
Air Beef really showed what it
could do. That year the
Kimberley district was hit by the
worst drought in living memory.
The season’s kill at the
Wyndham State meatworks fell
off by some 40 per cent. But the
Air Beef abattoir was unable to
cope with demand. Its kill rose
from 4079 in 1951 to 5186 in
1952. It was the only area in
North Australia to increase pro-
duction in the drought. Had
there been no Air Beef that year,
it is debatable whether even 1000-
head would have been marketed.
In this, the sixth successive
year of operation of Air Beef,
the work has settled into a steady
routine. Macßobertson-Miller
Aviation provided the air-
transport this year, using a
Douglas C. 478 aircraft, out of
which had been stripped every-
thing that could be spared, so as
to give the best payload. Over
the 16-weeks’ season, during
which 4056-head of cattle were
handled at Glenroy, the Air Beef
freighter made 212 flights to
Wyndham to move about 950
tons of beef.
In addition, 34 tons of beef
was flown to the Perth market
on the return flight of the regular
weekly freighter-service operat-
ing between Wyndham and
Perth. Other items flown out of
Glenroy were 47 tons of edible
offal and two tons of pork, while
a total of 92 tons of hides was
flown to Derby.
An essential part of the Air
Beef scheme is the back-loading.
This year, on return trips, the
Air Beef freighter flew in from
the coast the whole of the year's
“That fella absolutely the Louis Armstrong
of the didgeridoo .”
supplies of stores, fencing-wire,
machinery and other require-
ments for Glenroy and several
other near-by stations, plus two
stud bulls, which were flown
from Derby to Mount House
station.
Back-loading included, too,
several loads of motor-spirit and
other supplies for the W.A. Gov-
ernment survey-party at its base
at Gibb River, just north of
Glenroy. This party has
traversed for the first time the
150-miles stretch of excellent
cattle-country between Gibb
River and the mouth of the
Drysdale. Following the survey’s
report, it is expected that several
large cattle-station areas will be
thrown open for selection. There
is no doubt that air-transport will
be called upon to smooth out
many of the difficulties which
earlier pioneers had to meet in
the stocking and building-up of
a completely new cattle-station
from scratch.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment now has announced the
appointment of a panel to
investigate, and to advise the
Government on, air-transport of
beef throughout the whole of
northern Australia.
The Air Beef abattoirs at
Glenroy were established as a
pilot-plant from which to gain
technical information on the best
method of taking beef direct
from tfie cattle-station to the
nearest port by air. As a result,
very valuable experience has
been gained from the six-years’
operation of Air Beef, and the
company feels ready now to put
the lessons learned from this
experience to work in planning
improved and more efficient
killing-centres for expansion and
large-scale development.
J. A. SMITH.
Irrigation
“Inall”: With all the great
advances in agriculture during
the past century, it’s strange that
the ancient art of irrigation has
only recently received very much
attention from scientists and
engineers. Ditch - irrigation
methods of today are little
different from what they were
on the banks of the Nile when
Cheops was building his
pyramid.
Before War 11, irrigation in
Australia was mostly limited to
various special areas in New
South Wales, Victoria and South
Australia, and to market-gardens
and orchards near towns and
artesian-bores. Also, there were
riverside enthusiasts who estab-
lished fine orchards along the
Darling and other inland rivers,
using pumped water and spray-
lines ; but they were regarded
as experimentalists, their work
more admired than imitated.
In the past few years, particu-
larly with the spread of sown-
pastures in the southern wheat
districts of N.S.W., and more
generally in S.A. and Victoria,
many farmers have become more
aware of the productive possi-
bilities of their land, and are
extending their thoughts beyond
the soil-destroying cycle of
wheat, oats, grazing. An
unparalleled string of good
seasons, high lamb-prices, and
the relatively low return from
wheat, have all tended to popu-
larise pasture-farming in these
districts. The next logical step
is irrigation to make properties
as independent as possible of
weather vagaries.
It’s not as fantastic as it may
sound. The popular Australian
idea of irrigation in the past
didn’t go beyond the concept of
the provision of water by natural
flow through channels on closely
settled irrigation-areas, carved up
and supplied with water by a
benevolent Government. Look
up the beginnings of irrigation
in this country some time, and
see how benevolent a Govern-
ment had to be, in those days,
to come at anything of the kind ;
and what private and public
heart-searching sprang from it.
Today the progressive farmer,
guided by the work of such
pioneers as Geddes at Sydney
University’s experiment-farm at
Badgery’s Creek, is realising that


8
-
I
The AQA is the
Regd. Trade Mark
ONLY Cooker that
gives you all THIS .. •
there simply isn’t space to tell
you the full story of Aga . . .
and the remarkable difference it
will make for you in comfort,
ease and tranquillity of living.
We ran mention it’s a coke-
burning cooker with a difference,
a luxury difference that makes it
the finest cooker in the world.
. Ik
V
L
The correct grade
of coke now la
ample supply.
R? nst,i P f>*° r
Hfettl '?*
,if^f
We coo lightly touch
upon such facts as:
AGA can cook by itself . . . unwatched, unaided!
Burns day and night . . . ready for instant use always!
Requires only 10 minutes attention in every 24 hours.
Gives all the hot water you could reasonably want . .
kitchen and bathroom!
for both
AGA is more economical ... its fuel consumption, thermo-
statically controlled, is guaranteed never to exceed a definite,
and very modest, figure per year, no matter how much nor how
long you cookl
d
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in New Zealand in 1841)
Sol® Australian Agents for AGA
Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
N. S. WALES: 51-57 Goulburn St., Sydney
VICTORIA; 432 Bourke St., Melbourne
Q'LAND: Cnr. Margaret & Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUST.: 113 Grenfell St., Adelaide
T’MANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart
West Aust. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth
Sole AGA Agents for W.A.
it is possible to have the benefit
of irrigation by conserving water
at strategic points on his
property, for piping over pastures
and other crops.
This move towards individual
responsibility in irrigation has
been helped materially by the
introduction of modem irriga-
tion equipment tried and proved
overseas, particularly in America.
Heavy and expensive piping is
being replaced by lightweight,
easily movable lengths of
aluminium, equipped with wheels
or skids, that can be quickly
coupled-up into long spray-lines,
and as quickly uncoupled,
enabling the operator to place
his water just where he wants it,
and to move or alter his equip-
ment at will.
Efficient pumps have been
developed that will work as well
from the power-take-off of a
tractor as from a stationary
engine, contributing to the
mobility of irrigation-plant and
cutting capital costs, while
advocates of wise water-usage
have surprised many farmers
new to irrigation by demonstrat-
ing just how little water, properly
applied, is needed to keep a
pasture paddock or crop at top
productive-level.
Equally important to die
success of inland irrigation
where there is no natural water-
supply are the new methods of
dam-construction such as those
being utilised by Geddes at
Badgery’s Creek.
His “turkey-nest” dam is
infinitely cheaper to construct
than orthodox dams of much less
capacity, and is practicable
wherever there is a clay sub-
soil to retain the water. Indeed,
its construction is otherwise so
cheap that it would not be
uneconomical to line the dam
where a natural, water-
impervious bottom did not exist.
With this type of inland water-
farming (which could well
revolutionise farming methods in
many parts of Australia) the
capital cost of dams and plant
is relatively low; a farmer can
put in a pilot-plant on a small
pasture-area at no great outlay.
In America, where the trend
got well under way more than a
decade ago, the switch to irriga-
tion has been rapid and general,
and pumps and sprinkler-lines
are as common on farms as
tractors and combines. In 1950
there were more than 26 million
acres under irrigation in the
U.S.A., involving a capital invest-
ment of £B5O million, and since
then the irrigated area is
estimated to have increased by
12 per cent.
When American irrigation
expert Cloyd Gray was in Aus-
tralia last September he toured
the South Coast of N.S.W. at the
peak of drought (since broken).
In a subsequent press interview
Gray said that if the Illawarra
and South Coast country, with
its valuable dairy-industry, were
in America its productivity
would be protected against long
dry spells by adequate water-
conservation on individual
properties and the use of spray-
irrigation to keep pastures in
condition when natural rain
failed to fall at the appropriate
time.
Australia, with its history of
periodical droughts and its poor-
rainfall areas, where much of
the rain which does fall is
allowed to run off the land and
waste itself in dead-end water-
courses, offers many intriguing
possibilities to the irrigation-
engineer.
The Snowy Scheme will doubt-
less make more water available
for projects such as Renmark
and the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, while at the present time
Tasmania, with its plentiful
water-supply, is making wide use
of pumped irrigation-water.
The future might well see
properties in Australia’s drier
areas scientifically surveyed, so
that whatever rain falls and is not
absorbed will be channelled into
storage-dams for subsequent
irrigation. When that comes the
expensive process of “seeding”
clouds to induce rain might be a
payable proposition.
The whole conception of Aus-
tralia’s productivity could be
altered ; anyone who has crossed
from the dry plains on to the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
knows what the inland country
can produce given the water.
But, in general, the job is one
for individual farmers rather
than for Governments. The man
who builds his dams now will be
making a sound investment.
Foot-rot Fallacies
“Alumnis”: Foot-rot rarely
enters a flock in any way except
on the feet of sheep which have
picked it up somewhere in sale-
yards, transports or on roads
along which an infected mob
has just passed.
Lush pasture will not cause
foot-rot unless the germ is there
already. The chances are 1000
to 1 against its entering your
property from drainage-water,
the tyres of cars or on the feet
of rabbits or foxes.
The most overlooked “carrier”
is the new ram run with your
flock before you’ve had a good
look at it in quarantine. Keep
new rams separated for several
weeks after they arrive. Watch
them carefully for any signs of
foot-rot. Trim their hooves
thoroughly and bathe with
formalin.
Chloromycetin is effective but
very costly. It is not much good
unless feet are pared just as
thoroughly as when you use
formalin.
Pruning Tomatoes
“C.A.A.”: Pruning will
increase the yields of all late
varieties of tomatoes.
Prune each plant to two leaders
at an advanced stage of growth
and remove all laterals. Pruning
consists of pinching out lateral
growths as soon as they appear
in the axils of the leaves. Leaders
should be stopped when they
reach the top of the stake.
In staking the plants any old
silk-stockings you can lay hands
on will be found very useful.
They are elastic and expand with
the growth. To reduce stem-
damage from movement caused
by wind, wrap these (or similar
material) around the stake, and
then tie the tomato firmly to the
stake.
Poultry on Free-range
“Hank”: Certain funda-
mental rules should be observed
in keeping a large number of
poultry on free-range. Five-
hundred birds per acre is the
ideal, but few have the ground
or equipment to carry such a
number.
If paddocks are to be spelled
every other year a poultryfarmer
with 5000 birds would require at
least 10 acres to cater for 50
per cent, of replacement of his
flock each year.
In this case it is doubtful it
sufficient green-feed could be
grown all the year round on the
farm; and green-feed is still of
first importance, despite the
availability of vitamin-oils.
Coastal Grassland
Farming
“Dairyfarmer”: In many
countries in recent years there
has been increased recognition
of the high productive capacity
and nutritive value of grass when
it is well nourished and well
managed. And this change in
thinking can be seen on farms
everywhere.
The change may have been
partly due to a permanently
diminished supply of farm
labor ; but not entirely so.
Countries like Great Britain
and New Zealand, with their
favorable climates for the growth
of pastures during most of the
year, were the first to demon-
strate the possibilities of efficient
grassland-farming, in which less
dependence is placed upon culti-
vated crops.
Australia has fewer regions
suitable for grassland-farming
without full or supplemented
irrigation, but even on the
natural rainfall many regions of
the coastal belt could adopt or
get close to an all-grass system
of farming, which the economy
of dairyfarming largely demands.
Efficient grassland - farming
does not by any means /consist
of a complete-farm sward of
paspalum in large paddocks,
with little or no growth in winter
or dry spells, and a super-
abundant and wasted production
of coarse unpalatable growth of
low feeding-value in summer and
autumn periods of good rainfall.
It includes use of fertiliser or
lime; clover; deferred, rota-
tional- or strip-grazing; and
conservation of good surplus
growth as hay or silage.
Some N.S.W. lower North
Coast farmers, with additional
temporary or permanent winter-
pasture species, including
clovers, subdivisional or electric-
fencing for managed grazing,
conservation of flush young
growth of high nutritive value
as hay or silage, and no coarse,
unpalatable or wasted growth,
are demonstrating grassland-
farming or the efficient use of
pasture at its best; and reaping
the financial benefit of it.
Although there are excellent
pastures in N.Z., dairy farmers
there know the value of nitrogen
fertilisers, high-priced though
they are, in getting a highly
profitable extra spurt of growth
when it is most valuable—i.e.,
in late winter or early spring.
Ted Waring, District Agrono-
mist of the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, has recently
demonstrated on the Tweed
River that this “can also happen
here.”
Pumpkins
“Myrr”: When cutting
pumpkins from the vine, leave
2in. or Sin. of stem; if broken
off flush, there’ll be a focal-point
for commencement of fungal-
rots.
Store in a well-ventilated shed
fitted with racks so that the
pumpkins may be placed in single
layers and not touching one
another. Place triambles upside-
down to prevent condensation at
the stem end, and stack Queens-
land blues on their sides.
If there is no shed-room, heap
pumpkins on a raised platfrom
so that air will circulate through
the stack. Handle carefully, as
skin injuries are entry-points for
storage-rots. Inspect at intervals
and remove diseased fruits.
Farm Hints
“S.W.”: To open a fowl’s crop
(for impaction) pluck a few
feathers from the top of the crop
and make a horizontal cut of
Hin., being careful to avoid
blood-vessels. White tissue of
the crop itself will appear—cut
it and scoop out contents with
the handle-end of a teaspoon.
Wash incisions with clean water
and stitch with white silk or
white cotton. Isolate the fowl
and feed with only soft food tor
a few days. will work
out.
“T.”: When pruning away a
heavy limb, saw corresponding
cuts above and below at the
junction with the trunk until limb
breaks off. Pare off jagged part
of the break and paint with a
lead paint. Bark will later grow
over the scar.
“Zephyr”: Don’t use soiled
eggs for incubation; may cause
bacterial contamination and lead
to disease. As washing eggs also
assists bacteria to penetrate the
shell, clean while dry by gently
rubbing the dirt and stains ott
with steel-wool.
“Myrr”: If growth of leaf-
crops, beetroot or tomatoes
slackens before maturity, work
in loz. of sulphate-of-ammoma
or blood-manure per square
yard. Silver-beet and other
vegetables which produce over
an extended period require joz.
of sulphate-of-ammonia per plant
every month. Rapid-growing
plants like lettuce need more
frequent, but lighter, applica-
tions.
“Big Billy”: Snails cause a lot
of quiet damage in market-
gardens. Poisoned-bran baits
spread around the plots are effec-
tive. Mix 11b. calcium-arsenate
with 161 b. bran and moisten the
mixture until it is crumbly. In
citrus-groves rake the snails ano
the rubbish that shelters them
into the middle of the rows at
about midday on a hot day ; heat
will kill them before they can
crawl back into shade. For this
method to be effective there must
not be any weeds between the
rows.
“My”: In transplanting, use
only well-developed seedlings
and plant out in the cool of the
evening, keeping as much soil on
the roots as possible. Plant with
stem of the lowest leaf at ground-
level. Firm soil around the
plants and water-in with a solu-
tion of ioz. of super, or sulphate-
of-ammonia per gallon of water.
In hot weather protect trans-
plants with brushwood.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
Most cycles indicate that 19SS will be a year of deficient
rainfall, particularly in inland districts.
The Neptunian (or Grand) cycle would! repeat events
of 1790, but, as the colony was only in its infancy, records
were poor; for Sydney they state; “Heavy rains February,
March and April, Dry June to December.” This seems to
confirm the possibility of a dry year.
Some showers may occur in this period, with a further
rain-group about December 24. _ .
The present sunspot minimum is continuing, and this is
generally associated with poor seasons.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
National Service Training
No one would disagree with “Mugga
Way” (B. 1 /12 / ’54) that if today’s
National Service trainees “ever have to
fight in earnest they’ll need to be taught
a lot more,” Still, they do learn more
than “some appreciation of discipline and
a useful amount of physical education.”
Trainees I have questioned have fired
the rifle, Bren and machine-carbine;
they have thrown live grenades and are
able to use the two-inch mortar. They
have also been taught section- and
platoon-tactics and quite a bit of field-
craft.
None that I know has fired atomic
cannon or carried push-button devices
that would annihilate thousands of the
enemy in a second; but when “Mugga
Way” speaks of modern weapons, par-
ticularly in relation to their possible uses
in South-East Asia, it would clarify
things if he would nominate the “modem”
weapons he has in mind. It might sur-
prise him to know that the average
trainee knows how to remedy a stoppage
in a Bren. That might seem like “small-
time” stuff, but it is extremely comforting
in action to a Bren-gunner and his mates
if he can get a stopped gun firing again
in seconds.
“Mugga Way” refers to the “compara-
tively junior officers who are in charge
of C.M.F. units.” To the best of my
knowledge, as far as infantry battalions
in N, S. Wales are concerned, they are
commanded by lieutenant-colonels, which
is the normal rank for this command, and
companies are commanded by captains
or majors. I think that all the present
battalion-commanders served in the
Middle East and New Guinea with the
A.I.F. in 1939-45 and were company-
commanders, at least, when the war fin-
ished. Since then they have had almost
seven-years’ C.M.F. experience, plus
militia experience before the war; they
are mainly in the 35-42 age-group.
The vast majority of company-com-
manders were serving as platoon-com-
manders at the end of World War II and
also have had almost seven years with
the C.M.F.
“Mugga Way” also asks if these offi-
cers know anything of modern weapons
or “of the changes which are occurring
quickly in tactics.” How does he think
they have passed the last seven years?
They have spent at least one night a week,
plus many weekends each year and six
annual camps, trying to make themselves
more efficient and furthering their know-
ledge.—'Tidak Makan (N.S.W.).
Address Unknown
I can assure “Kayenne” (B. 1/12/’54)
that there would be real practical diffi-
culty, involving delay in the delivery
generally, if the Post Office undertook,
as standard practice, to intercept and re-
direct correspondence addressed to an
individual who shares a common address
and letterbox with a number of other
people.
That difficulty has led to the Australian
It's better than the pram—you feel more independent."
postal legislation which “K.” calls “ante-
diluvian, and to almost identical pro-
visions in other countries, including Eng-
The relative statutory provisions are:
Australia “The Department will not
undertake to intercept and redirect a
postal article addressed to the care of a
residential-flat, comprising one of a group,
the correspondence for the occupants of
which is delivered into a common letter-
box or to a common agent.”
New Zealand —“ The Department does
not undei take to redirect articles addressed
to a flat or apartment, unless the tenants
have separate delivery-points.”
England—" The Post Office does not
undertake to redirect articles addressed
to any premises occupied by two or more
persons where the letters are delivered
by postmen into a common letterbox or
to a common agent.”
Thus N.Z, and British Post Offices bar
redirection completely, while the Austra-
lian boggles only at interception and re-
direction—a. point missed by “K.” The
fact is that the Australian P. 0., while not
undertaking to intercept this type of mail
before delivery, will record a redirection-
order for reference and action should any
correspondence be returned from the
address concerned.
Incidentally, United States post-offices,
while extending free redirection-service
to letter-class articles, enforce a scale
of charges for similar service for
mail of other classes. ; — Geehem (Vic.).
Roads and Caravanserais
A thousand-mile business-trip through
N.S.W. impressed me with the number
of country hotels which had prepared for
10-o’clock closing by the construction of
beer-gardens and other facilities.
One licensee told me he had gambled
on 10-o’clock closing to the extent of
£lB,OOO-worth of improvements. A flag-
ging-floored restaurant, set back off the
footpath and completely open to it, will
have a Parisian atmosphere. Inside, a new
modern-styled public lounge will be
equipped with palms, beach-umbrellas
and gaily-colored tables and chairs on
a tiled floor—all enclosed by apple-green
walls and an apricot ceiling.
The ceiling centre will be of glass to
encourage the Australian sunshine to
filter through the pure amber hues of good
beer, thus completing the color harmony.
“Do you expect increased sales to cover
the cost of improvements?” 1 asked.
“Eventually,” he said. “With me it’s a
matter of pride. Can’t stand the swill-
house atmosphere. I’ve been wanting an
excuse to make these improvements for
years. Six-o’clock doesn’t warrant it. The
men haven’t time to relax between knock-
off and six, and the womenfolk are busy
preparing the evening meal. Now they’U
be able to get away together from the
house and relax in a pleasant, social
atmosphere.”
This seemed to be the attitude of many
of the often-condemned country hotels,
and those publicans who do not share it
will have to follow suit if they wish to
remain in business.
Whether city hotels will effect similar
alterations remains to be seen, but their
country cousins have given an encourag-
ing lead. The reason could be that 10-
o’clock closing, or thereabouts, has been
the practice in most country towns for
many years ; and the country publican
knows there has been little abuse of the
law’s blind-eye. He is now grateful that
he can continue lawfully.
In one hotel visited, men and women
were still drinking in the lounge and
saloon-bar at nine-o’clock. The horses had
been racing in town that day, but accord-
ing to mine host the same thing hap-
pened most nights of the week. I observed
that no more was consumed than would
be normal had they been drinking in their
own homes with a few friends.
At another hotel twelve of us drank
from eight till ten in the public-bar—no
“In case the missus happens to come in."
more than three or four beers were dis-
posed of per person. The conversation
drew in all types on Australia’s defences.
Two of us had intended visiting, the local
movies. Maybe we benefited as much
from the two-hour discussion as we would
have from a Hollywood film.
It would do the wowsers good to go to
tire country and inspect the conditions of
10-o’clock closing as they have existed
for years outside Sydney.
Another point. I always return after
travelling about Australia to marvel at
how we curse the condition of the roads.
(How often we curse most things!) When
I consider the thousands upon thousands
of miles of lifeline roads throughout our
vast continent —many, particularly on the
populated east coast, carved through
rugged mountains—and remember that
all this has been achieved in a few genera-
tions, I never cease to wonder at the bril-
liance of the engineers, the determination
of the builders and the dogged persever-
ance of the maintenance-men.
Four years ago the Hume Highway
from Sydney to Melbourne was one tor-
tuous pot-hole after another, resulting
from months of rain and the pounding
weight of giant road-transports. At the
time I doubted whether it would ever be
repaired. Today it is almost back to
normal. — Roirp (N.S.W.).
Queensland Roads
From its reaction to the Privy Council’s
decision on road-taxes one would think
that the Queensland Labor Government
had cause to be proud of its roads —it
declared, in effect, that unfettered use of
the roads by hauliers would mean that
the roads could not be maintained in a
traffickable condition.
With characteristic pique and contempt
for the spirit of the decision of the highest
juridical body in the British Empire, State
Labor Governments announced that
they would legislate to circumvent a
“shocking judgment.” A system of regu-
lating the number of road-hauliers would
be introduced, and Queensland Labor
was the first to secure Parliamentary
approval of this proposal.
In the closing hours of the Queensland
Parliament Labor bulldozed a passage for
legislation giving the Transport Commis-
sioner “discretionary powers” in the
granting of licences for road-operators.
Those powers include the determination
by the commissioner of the “character,
fitness and experience of the applicant;
suitability and fitness of the vehicles pro-
posed to be used; condition and suit-
ability of roads on which the vehicles are
to be used ; number and type of other
vehicles using those roads.”
In other words, if the Government
doesn t like the look of the applicant
seeking a licence to carry goods by road
inter-State, then he gets no licence.
This Queensland State Transport Facili-
ties Act amendment is a good example of
politics at its worst. Labor just won’t
accept the fact that the roads are the
Queen’s highways, and that evfery subject
has a perfect right to use them freely and
without fear. That convention was estab-
lished in the reign of Elizabeth I.
And what of the roads that Queensland
Labor protests are being damaged so
much by road-hauliers? Vaunted high-
ways have been in a sorry condition for
nearly a generation. Road-construction
and -maintenance in Queensland proceed
at a scandalous pace, and cost.
The 1953-54 report of the Queensland
Main Roads Commission points to a
dreary record. This table shows the road-
work done during the year:
Type of Work. Mileage.
Clearing 32.83
Formation 273.89
Gravelling 120.61
Bitumening 45.94
Concreting 2.19
Total 475.46
The cost for that was £6,747,821, or
over £14,000 for each mile. And Labor
can’t cry that it was starved for funds, A
balance of £1,468,382 was at the disposal
of the Main Roads Commission at the
end of the financial year. Nor is that the
whole story. The commission employed
a staff of 804 during the year, and salaries,
together with administrative expenses,
were £522,719. —IX J. K. (Q.).
Churchill and Menzies
Following the jubilation and congratu-
lation which recently greeted two great
men, Prime Ministers both, on the same
day—for Winston Churchill’s 80th birth-
day and on R. G. Menzies setting a new
record for time-in-office of an Australian
Prime Minister —let me intrude on a
critical note.
Both statesmen have done great things,
but both have failed to do several things
they’d promised.
Most glaring of Churchill’s defections
is his acquiescence in the “giving-away”
of the Empire. What has become of his
proud war-time boast that he had not be-
come Prime Minister to “preside over the
dissolution of the Empire”? When in
Opposition in the later 1940’s he had
plenty to say about the Labor party’s
disposing of slices of Empire; but his
walking-out of Egypt has been no whit
different. Again, British policy in and
around China, even under Churchill, has
been vacillating and weak-kneed, and
British interests there have accordingly
suffered.
In the domestic sphere, though he’s put
a full-stop to nationalisation, and has
restored the steel-industry to private con-
trol, he hasn’t “de-nationalised” as much
as he could have —the gas- and electricity-
industries are still under “public” owner-
ship.
And what of Mr. Menzies? For one
thing his Government has refused to
liberalise companies’ allowable deduc-
tions for depreciation for income-tax
purposes. This would bolster private in-
dustry, and thus the national economy,
to a great extent.
More important still, what about that
pre-1950 promise to reduce drastically the
Federal public service? What has he
done in this connection? The Common-
wealth service has been increasing every
year that Menzies has been in office. The
Prime Minister’s Department is now
much larger than it was under Chifley.
There shouldn’t be any need to remind
a free-enterprise Government that bureau-
cracy must be curbed, not encouraged.—
Keima (Q.).


The Antarctic
Recent Australian moves concerning
our claim to a large section of the Ant-
arctic continent have evoked little public
comment here or abroad, but have not
gone unnoticed in several world capitals.
They have coincided with well-propa-
gated rumors that Russia might explode
an H-bomb on the great ice-cap, with
the announcement that a well-equipped
U.S. expedition was heading south, and
with sundry statements on the increasing
defence importance of weather informa-
tion and possible mineral resources
around the polar regions.
One satisfactory aspect is the new
awareness that propaganda can be a
potent weapon in reinforcing Australian
claims. The establishment of the per-
manent base at Mawson last year has
been made the subject of an outstand-
ing color-film, and the latest Australian
expedition includes novelist and feature-
writer Tom Hungerford, of the News and
Information Bureau, who will doubtless
produce some useful copy from his three
months or so in our Antarctic territory.
An Act passed last session has extended
to that area the system of law now applic-
able in the A.C.T. Other developments
may include a new permanent base east
of Adelie Land, where it has been sug-
gested that the known resources of good-
quality coal could supply the essential fuel,
thus relieving the drain on sea-transport.
Air-services between Australia and the
bases are being mooted, and increasing
use is being made of light planes for
reconnaissance.
It seems reasonable to assume that
these and other developments will be
followed by new moves by Australia to
seek wider recognition of sovereignty
claims in the south, either through the
United Nations or elsewhere. Our enter-
prise and expenditure, coupled with the
devotion of the men doing the job in the
most lonely and stark area in the world,
justify wide international acknowledg-
ment. — Mugga Way (A.C.T.).
I agree that Australia should be send-
ing expeditions to the Antarctic, but not
for the reasons “Rothjay” and others put
forward (B. 17/11 / ’54).
Australia must and will gain materially
from extended research into Antarctic
meteorology. So will South Africa and
New Zealand, both British countries.
Weather is only one science. Marine-
biology and oceanography are two
sciences almost untouched in the Mac-
Robertson Land area. Considerable
research will have to be done in both
fields for years to come. The study of
aurora and cosmic-rays, and their
relationship to radio-propagation, could
be, in a world increasingly dependent on
high-speed communication, the most im-
portant scientific work ever undertaken
in southern latitudes.
This work will commence in 1955, and
when the Antarctic International Year
opens in 1956 our cosmic-ray recorder
will have been at work continuously for
a year.
But scientific research is a long, tedious
and unspectacular business; there are no
newspaper headlines in it. Hard-headed
and materialistic Australians like to see
something more tangible in their evening-
papers. Minerals! Coal and uranium,
diamonds and gold, striking similarities in
the country around Mawson and Broken
Hill, the great wealth that might accrue
to Australia in 50, 100, 200 years’ time.
But there’s no mention of the terrible
conditions under which any mining would
have to be carried out, nor of the fan-
tastic costs entailed.
“Rothjay’s” suggestion that “sending
weather reports from these outposts is
not sufficient ground for a claim” is be-
side the point. What proper claim have
we to a third of the Antarctic Continent ?
The “long list of discoveries and explora-
tion work”? That’s a matter of consider-
able doubt. The first discoverer of Ant-
arctica proper is, and has been for years,
the subject of furious argument between
geographers. England, the United States,
France and Russia can all put very good
claims on the table, not to mention Chile
and the Argentine.
As I see it, there will have to be a new
international legal device worked out to
justify all Antarctic claims. Claims based
on discovery and exploration, in the same
way as were American, African and
Pacific territories during the 16th, 17th
and 18th centuries, do not hold anywhere
near the same legal significance today
when applied to the Antarctic,
The American view, first laid down by
Secretary of State Charles Hughes in
1924, is that “no nation can claim
sovereignty over an area where effective
occupation is not possible.” “Effective
occupation”—that’s important. Australia
claimed its two slabs by letters-patent
"Shirl evidently couldn't make it — she's not around.”
effective from August 24, 1934. Not until
1954, after the U.S. had carefully air-
photo-mapped nearly all our sector’s
coastline and made significant discoveries
inland, was an Australian party landed
at Macßobertson Land. A party of
nine “occupying” 2,472,000 square miles!
Is that effective occupation?
The only area in the whole of Ant-
arctica being effectively occupied is the
Falkland Islands. Here farming is widely
spread throughout the islands, and motor-
roads, air-services and hospital-services
are becoming commonplace. Yet the
British Government and the Island
Administration are concerned that the
population is decreasing. In other words,
despite increasing social-services, occupa-
tion is becoming less effective every year.
To compare the Antarctic with Arabia
is misleading in the extreme. Arabia has
an accessible coastline; it's not sur-
rounded for eight months of the year by
an impregnable, 300-miles-wide barricade
of ice. It’s possible to erect big buildings
that will stay put despite desert storms ;
down there the smaller the hut the better
when the big snow-laden winds begin
piping, Arabia has a native population
that can be used as a work-force; Ant-
arctica is the only area in the world with-
out a native people. This means that all
labor must be imported, at high cost.
Antarctica is a continent where men
grow up, where a man learns the meaning
and purpose of the human soul as he
could never do in all the cathedrals of the
world rolled into one. It hardly deserves
to have such wide and bitter contention
heaped on its magnificent, but I think
indifferent, head. —C. J. (W.A.).
The P.M.G.’s monitors must have been
asleep on duty when “Rothjay” made his
contacts with Heard and Macquarie
Islands and talked to the men there
about the prospects of mining in the
Antarctic (B. 17/11 /’54).
My copy of the regulations says that
conversation on amateur-bands must be
restricted to purely technical radio
matters and such personal items as will
make for harmonious working, without
nattering. In my year at Heard Island
minerals were never mentioned by the
party at all, let alone in conversation on
the air.—VKl (W.A.).
Industrial Problems
“Inall” (B. 1/12/’54) quotes the acting-
president of the N. S. Wales Employers’
Federation, K. M. Whyte, as seeking co-
operation on a non-political level between
unions and management to thresh out
ways and means of enabling Australian
industry to compete with imports.
Production costs are not likely to be
lowered until Communists are removed
from control of key-unions, and on this
issue union executives are hopelessly
divided. The industrial-groups are striv-
ing to remove the Reds, while another
group, led by T. Dougherty of the
A.W.U., is fighting the industrial-groups.
Meanwhile the Communist group takes
pleasure in seeing the “moderates” tear-
ing themselves to pieces. While this
wrangling mob leads Australian workers
our oversea competitors should have an
easy time.
In Sydney recently 21 unions of the
Dougherty group representing 230,000
members carried a resolution which
states, inter alia, “We abhor the practice
of the A.L.P. or the industrial-groups
campaigning within unions to force such
unions into court-ballots against the
wishes of the union executive and the
membership.”
They are thus even against democratic
secret-ballots. For 30 years the agents of
Moscow have worked within the unions
to capture control, but these so-called
moderates raised no big protest-meetings
about them. The task of employers in
seeking co-operation from such pro-Left-
wing leadership seems hopeless. —K. Me,
(N.S.W.).
Cheque-exchange
City firms with whom I trade always
ask for “exchange to be added to country
cheques.” If it isn’t they deduct the
amount from my account.
Yet I’ve handled and received numbers
of cheques from these same firms to
country people and exchange is never
added. The bank, of course, then debits
the payee when crediting the cheque, and
he cops it both ways.
This practice is widespread and must
result in a nice take for the firms con-
cerned.—Quo Vadis (Q.).
Winch-drivers
“Waddlin’ Willie” (B. l/12/’54) says
that it takes 15 years before a man is
selected to drive a winch.
In Wellington (N.Z.) in 1949 I was a
“seagull” on the wharves —an unskilled,
non-union member. The weather adding
to other discomforts down the hold, 1
wished myself elsewhere. Reprieve came
in the form of a voice calling down for
a winch-driver. After the second call I
climbed out of the heat and discomfort
and sat behind the drum of the portside
winch, aft.
Like “W.W.,” 1 had watched the opera-
tions —reversing the lever for raising and
lowering the hook ; the judicious manipu-
lation of the throttle; and the careful
use of the brake.
Although I didn’t drop the hook on a
threepenny-bit, I didn’t brain anyone
with it either, nor did I drop any cargo
in the drink.
My contention: Any man with con-
fidence and 10-minutes’ instruction can
drive a winch, steam or electric. —
Stroller (Q.).
Radiology in Hospitals
Sydney’s Royal Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal, like most Australian hospitals these
days, usually has more work on hand
than it can really manage. In particular
its neuro-surgery and X-ray departments
are always flat-out.
In contrast is the Northcott Neurologi-
cal Clinic at North Sydney, run by the
R.S.L. On average its radiological staff
handle only two or three cases a day.
Surely some arrangement could be
made whereby some patients could be
taken from hard-pressed Prince Alfred
and other hospitals and X-rayed at North-
cott- It need not interfere with work on
ex-service patients.— Kaymara (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 309
Across
I—Trembling tree taking four to
her Majesty like the winter in
France. (7) ...
s—Throw the French mirth. (7)
9—Study the winner who sends one
to gaol? (9)
10— Parcel out the lot to start and
the lot to finish. (5)
11— Arson among horses. (5)
12— Ray is very ill-tempered structural
timber. (9)
14— Imperial Chemical Industries is
here in France. (3)
15— Obstructive incursion. (6)
16— Spaniards have such running
water available from the bore. (4)
19—She’s dead. (4)
21— A crescent in art backed the
beautiful Portuguese city
acclaimed by Byron in “Childe
Harold.” (6)
22 A Russian who could compose
the middle note with you and the
first person. (3)
23 Reckoned as belonging to the
little devil joining you and
Edward. (7) ....
26 —Hindu sage makes the fatherless
parishioner drop a single. (5)
27_Queerer Communist act backed.
(5) . . ....
28—Walter imitating a cow rolling in
mud where part of an enclosure
is unsettled. (9)
30 — Leanly has a health resort to
depend upon. (71
31 — Stewart brings King George to
fury. (7)
Down
2 European one born under the
sign of the Ram has been
executed. (9)
3 An unsuccessful wooing for
Virginia in tailored garments
with self-admiring hearts, and a
humorous song by Brahms. (4, 4)
4 Nonsense mountain rises up
before you. (3)
5 Telling fortunes hy the cards
makes a cat caper under the car.
(11)
6 Range of the Chaldees’ capital
Jolson and Capone. (5)
7 Tenant boomerang. (5)
8— Speaking off-hand, this makes the
former rate of musical progress
revolt. (13)
9 Gristly vehicle and I convict one
with commonsense. (13)
12 — Thus transported, an audience
may remain in exactly the same
place notwithstanding Dreiser’s
sister and the see-sawing Marjorie
affirmative. (7, 4)
13 — Queen’s descendant seen in a
bout of organised voluntary work.
(3)
17 —It helps an angelic footballer to
fly a feature of batting gniws.
(9)
18 —Stevenson’s novel group of three
seen in the middle of the place
for a miraculous marriage feast.
(8)
20—Australian bird. (3)
24 Shrew Katharina’s home town.
(5)
25 — Crisp and concise trees are cut
about. (5)
29—A pole for the telegraph record
made by the captain with mathe-
matical aid. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 308


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba, and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Mel bourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.,
Limited, Perth,
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty.
Limited, Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
... MAY THIS BE A MERRIER XMAS
This entire page Is ft FAIT) APV KR'ITSgMETff
prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIKTCE LIMITED
December
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1954
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LTD. and their State Distributors throughout the Commonwealth, hope that you have enjoyed
reading the "M.V. Agricultural News" series for 1954, and take this opportunity of extending to all best wishes
from the Management and Staff.
May the prosperity that we together are achieving
continue and bring many “Merrier Christmasses”
to the people who are the backbone of the
Australian nation, the people On-the-Land.
By constant improvement in service, in the
quality and up-to-date design of our products,
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. hopes to help fulfil our wish
for this year and the years to come . . . may this
be a Merrier Christmas.
GOOD NEWS FOR FARMERS
Tests recently carried out have now proved conclusively that 2, 4-D Hormone Sprays do not
harm ANY commercial varieties of cereal crops, wheat, barley or oats.
Agronomists and leading authorities had previously urged caution in the use of Hormone
Sprays for the controlling of weed-growth in crop and pasture.
However, the tests carried out at the Wagga,
N.S.W., Agricultural College showed that twenty-
two popular wheats, five barley and ten oat
varieties were unaffected by 2, 4-D sprays.
The only affected varieties were two oats, Algerian
and Dale. These crops showed a tendency to
develop a purplish-red colour on the lower stems
and leaves. This, however, did not affect the
quality or quantity of the yield, and therefore
should not stop any farmer from spraying these
types of oats for weed control.
Tests have proved that, when applied correctly,
with proper equipment and at the right time.
2, 4-D Sprays will score at least 80 per cent, kill
of skeleton weed in the crop.
A typical result is of the farmer who reported an
average yield of nine bags per acre after spraying
as against four and a half bags. Formerly he had
found it impossible to harvest more than half
his crop due to weed infestation.
THE M.V. ROLLER SPRAY
PLANT...
Details of this amazing plant, as well as the M.V.
Boom Spray Equipment, may be obtained from
any of the State Distributors listed at the foot of
this page.
FARMERS CLUB TOGETHER
TO BUY ‘BOOM-SPRAY’ UNITS
The spectacular increase in the sale and use of Hormone Sprays has led to a demand for the best Boom
Spray Equipment. These units have also proved their effectiveness in the combatting of the
grasshopper-plague menace.
In the Narrabri district of N.S.W, 40 farmers clubbed together
and bought their own Boom Spray for protection of the group
against the ’hopper.
Sketch shows positions of spray
nozzles and protective skids.
The M.V. BOOM SPRAY, shown
attached to a truck, with the Roller
Spray Plant behind the cab.
The Moffat-Virtue Boom Spray has proved its
effectiveness in operation. Being of rugged yet
simple construction and superior design, it has
found increasing popularity wherever Boom
Spray equipment is used.
Designed for operation by the M.V. Roller Spray
Roller-Spray’s
Remarkable
Performance
High pressure low volume operation
means economy and maximum
penetration
The M.V. Roller Spray Plant was developed by
Moffat-Virtue Ltd. after intensive research into
the best type of general-purpose portable spray
plant for farmers, orchardists and vegetable
growers. '
The plant is adjustable to give a complete range I
of operating pressures up to 3001bs. per square
inch without fluctuations. The exclusive principle
enabling this small plant to give such an outstand- j
ing performance is an eccentric roller drive, which
gives the duplex piston pump four times more [
strokes per minute than a normal piston pump.
The plant is operated by a 1.3 h.p. air-cooled
engine, and weighs only 1401bs. It was used
exclusively by the Departments of Agriculture of
N.S.W. and West Australia for the eradication of
Argentine Ants.
The Roller Spray Plant overcame the problems
created by hilly and rugged terrain. It was easy
to carry but lost none of its effectiveness for
weight-savings. The plant is now used for almost
every type of spray job, from sheep jetting to
white-washing walls.
A 60ft. hose assembly is standard equipment,
making it easy for orchardists and vegetable!
growers to cover their crops. Also, because of |
its compactness and portability, and the high
pressure and comparatively low output, the plant
has been found ideal for spraying with hormone
weed-killers. j
The roller spray is the most versatile power spray i
available today ... It will save work and make
money for any primary producer, no matter what
type of property he has.
Plant, the M.V. Boom Spray therefore has the
advantage of High Pressure, Low Volume
Operation. The boom is 30ft. long, with 19 fan-
type spray nozzles, overhead mounted (as shown
in the above sketch) to prevent waste and damage
to the nozzles. The boom is easily attached to a
truck, trailer or tractor, and each arm has a
patented gravity-hinge action, allowing the boom
to yield to obstructions and return automatically
to operating position when clear. Protective skids
are attached to the end of both arms of the boom.
