

THE HOUSE
ssdfdf
OF SEPPF.LT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
MEET THE GRASSHOPPERS!
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3857
Wednesday, January 13, 1954
Price 9dL
Registered a. the Genera. Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W.. AustraHa. for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ONE OF LONDONDERRY’S SIGHTS,
ITS GOTHIC GUILDHALL
AT the time of the Plantation of Ulster in
the early seventeenth century, the County
of Londonderry was colonised by the Com-
panies of the City of London and it was from
this event that it received its name. Previously
it had been known as the County of Coleraine.
The ancient walled town of Londonderry,
or Derry, as it js affectionately known to
Ulstermen, stands on the west bank of the
River Foyle, but the modern city extends to
the east bank and the two parts are joined
by the Craigavon Bridge, twenty miles from
Lough Foyle and the open sea.
With a population of 50,000, Londonderry
is the second city and port in Northern
Ireland and its history goes back to the year.
546 when Columba, the Irish Saint, established
a religious comrhunity there. It was due to
his missionary efforts that Scotland and
Northern England were converted to Christian-
ity.
Although founded under such gentle auspices,
Londonderry was destined, however, to have
a particularly turbulent and calamitous his-
tory. The city was attacked many times by
the Danish invaders, and it is recorded that
before the thirteenth century it was burned
seven times. It suffered plunderings during
the period of the Anglo-Norman conquest;
at the time of the Shane O’Neill rebellion
against Queen Elizabeth in 1566 it was
destroyed by the explosion of a powder maga-
zine, and in 1608 it was once more plundered
and burnt, this time by an Irish chieftain, Sir
Cahir O’Doherty, whose sword is still pre-
served in the Guildhall.
The Guildhall, shown in the accompanying
illustration, is a building in the Gothic style,
dating from 1890, and it has a particularly
fine range of stained-glass windows. In it are
preserved many interesting records and his-
torical relics, including the mace presented by
King William III in 1688.
Opposite the Guildhall is the Shipquay Gate,
where, in the famous siege of 1689, the relief
ships reached the city after breaking through
the boom of chains and timber across the
River Foyle. For 105 days the city held out
against the forces of James II, during which
time the inhabitants, 7000 of whom died,
endured the last extremities of starvation but
never surrendered.
The cannon which defied the enemy may
still be seen today on the famous walls which
surround the city. They form a noble terrace,
consisting of a thick rampart of earth, faced
with stone and range in breadth from 14ft.
and from 20ft. to 25ft. in height.


The Red Page
BARON BOSWELL
Even if there were still monarchies and
royal palaces every hundred miles or so
across Europe the British traveller today,
such is the decline in society and such
the increase in tourism, could hardly ex-
pect to be invited to meals at every court,
much less to stay the night; and so from
Boswell on the Grand Tour (Heinemann:
Angus and Robertson) we learn some-
thing about British prestige in the 18th-
century.
For, setting off after that dismal year
of study and self-reproof in Holland,
making his leisurely way through Ger-
many and Switzerland in the hope of per-
suading his iron papa to let him loose in
Italy (where he had promised himself
some interesting misbehavior), Boswell’s
travels in this volume are literally a royal
progress. By the simple device of styling
himself Baron Boswell (a title to which
Professor Pottle thinks he had a reason-
able claim, since it was a near-enough
equivalent to his proper style of Laird of
Auchinleck, which would have been in-
comprehensible in Europe) he was able to
go from one German princeling to an-
other as an honored guest, seeing the life
of the courts and enjoying (as who would
not?) the sensation of hobnobbing with
royalty, especially with the sister of King
George the Third:
This evening was again a ball. No
sooner did the amiable Princess perceive
me than she came up to me with a smile
celestial and said, “Mr. Boswell, let us
finish our minuet.” Accordingly, I danced
with her Royal Highness, who danced
extremely well. We made a very fine Eng-
lish minuet—or British, if you please, for
it was a Scots gentleman and an English
lady that performed it. What a group of
fine ideas had I! 1 was dancing with a
princess; with the granddaughter of King
George whose birthday 1 have so often
helped to celebate at Old Edinburgh; with
the daughter of the Prince of Wales, who
patronised Thomson and other votaries of
science and the muse; with the sister of
George the Third, ray sovereign. I mark
this variety to show how my imagination
can enrich an object, so that I have double
pleasure when I am well. It was noble
to be in such a frame... .1 was next taken
out to dance by the Princess Elizabeth,
who is to be Queen of Prussia, and by the
Princess Dorothea. My spirits bounded . . .
There were, it is true, a few occasions
when Boswell’s spirits were not permitted
to bound. In spite of the most assiduous
courting of the appropriate underlings,
and though he was near enough on one
occasion to think of throwing himself
at the royal Prussian’s feet and begging
for a couple of minutes’ conversation, he
was not able to get a personal interview
with Frederick the Great; and decided,
in very human mortification, “I am quite
out of conceit with monarchy. This king
is feared like a wild beast.” The Elector
of Mannheim, too, who did not invite
him to dinner, was “an inhospitable dog.”
But the royal progress was a fact, never-
theless ; and if, instead of travelling in a
great private coach full of bears and
monkeys and flunkeys as Byron was to do,
Boswell was a little embarrassed by
having to sneak away from one court to
another in the rough and crowded carts
that served for public conveyances over
the dreadful roads of Germany, very
pretty he must have looked when, young,
handsome and falling over himself with
vivacity, he presented himself to the royal
households:
I was this day dressed in a suit of
flowered velvet of five colors. I had
designed to put on this suit first at Saxe-
Gotha. I did so. It is curious, but I had
here the very train of ideas which I ex-
pected to have. At night the Princess
made me come to the table where she sat
at cards, and said, “Mr. Boswell! Why,
how fine you are!”
This assurance which British prestige
and his standing in Scottish aristocracy
gave to Boswell —added to the intellectual
reassurance he had received from his
friendship (at 24!) with the great Dr.
Johnson —is worth bearing in mind when
he pleads for the meetings with Voltaire
and Rousseau which are the biggest scenes
of the present volume: for Macaulay’s
sorry picture of him as a buffoon (super-
ficially reinforced by the amused and
merciless frankness with which Boswell
painted his own portrait) takes a lot of
living-down, even for the most ardent of
Boswellians. It was a Highland gentle-
man and the friend of Dr. Johnson, not
some impertinent nobody, who wrote to
Rousseau:
I present myself, Sir, as a man of
singular merit.
To which (and much more to the same
point) Rousseau replied with unaccus-
tomed cordiality;
I am ill, in pain, really in no state to
receive visits. Yet I cannot deprive my-
sell of Mr. Boswell’s, provided that out
of consideration for the state of my health
he is willing to make it short.
Rousseau must, all the same, have been
an awkward customer to interview.
Dressed in the long Armenian gown
which he wore for convenience in his
illness, in such discomfort that he could
not sit still but mostly talked to Boswell
striding about the room, he accepted Bos-
well’s enthusiasm with fortitude (“I seized
his hand, I thumped him on the shoulder.
I was without restraint”); he talked
freely with him about religion and (when
Boswell could manage it) Boswell; but
he had a manner of concluding the inter-
view with what reads at first glance like
quite intolerable rudeness;
He said, “I have seen the Scottish High-
landers in France. I love the Scots; not
because my Lord Marischal is one of them
but because he praises them. You are
irksome to me. It’s my nature. I cannot
help it.” Boswell; “Do not stand on
ceremony with me.” Rousseau: “Go
away.”
It is possible that there was a certain
amount of bantering humor, the pardon-
able incivility of a man in pain, in these
abrupt dismissals, for Boswell doesn’t
seem to have objected to them in the
slightest; and there is no doubt, from the
subsequent letter of introduction which
Rousseau wrote for him, that the phil-
osopher had a genuine regard for him:
I am glad that you and Mr. Boswell
are to make each other’s acquaintance. I
think you will both be grateful to me for
bringing you together. In the first letter
he wrote me; he told me that he was a
man “of singular merit.” , I was curious
to see a man who spoke of himself in
such a fashion, and I found that he had
told me the truth.
The Voltaire interviews were conducted
with equal cordiality, and without any
incivility, bantering or otherwise. Boswell
amused the old scapegrace by his letter
begging the privilege of spending a night
under his roof —
I am a hardy and vigorous Scot. You
may mount me in the highest and coldest
garret. I shall not even refuse to sleep
upon two chairs in the bedchamber of
your maid. I saw her pass through the
room where we sat before dinner ...
—and, among his other guests, Voltaire
singled him out for special attention.
Professor Pottle has included with the
accounts of these interviews in the journal
some notes which Boswell intended for
subsequent expansion ; and a very en-
lightening and amusing addition they
make. The French playwright’s jealousy
of the greatest of his English rivals, if it
was not just the false taste of the period,
is too good to miss:
Voltaire: “Shakspeare often two good
lines, never six. A madman, by G —d, a
buffoon at Bartholomew Fair. No play of
his own, all old stories.” Chess. “I shall
lose, by G —d, by all the saints in Para-
dise. Ah, here I am riding on a black
ram, like a whore as I am —Falstaff from
the Spaniards.” Boswell: “I’ll tell you
why we admire Shakspeare.” Voltaire;
“Because you have no taste.” Boswell:
“But, Sir” Voltaire: “Et penitus
toto divisos orbe Britannos —all Europe
is against you. So you are wrong.”
Boswell: “But this is because we have
the most grand imagination.” Voltaire:
“The most wild —Pope drives a chaise
with a couple of neat, trim nags but
Dryden a coach and six, with postilions
and all.” Boswell: “Johnson is a most
orthodox man, but very learned; has much
genius and much worth.” Voltaire: “He
is then a dog. A superstitious dog. No
worthy man was ever superstitious.”
Boswell on the Grand Tour is not, alas,
another London Journal. There is rather
too much of Boswell’s hypochondria in
it, and too much of his flounderings be-
tween belief and scepticism in religion—
both topics of which we had enough in
Boswell in Holland.
There is also, incidentally, too much of
a pother of footnotes. Professor Pottle
is the noblest of editors, and the whole
world is grateful to him; but, though
many of the footnotes are invaluable, it
is faintly annoying to have Boswell in-
terrupted on almost every page while the
Professor explains, for instance, con-
cerning a Madame de Boick, who is of
no significance in the story and never
reappears in it after the one occasion when
Boswell sat next to her at dinner, “This
name remains a mystery. If it is German,
the spelling should probably be Boeck;
if Dutch, Buick.” One would like to be
able to stroll with Boswell in Berlin down
his “sweet walk under a grove of chestnut-
trees by the side of a beautiful canal”—
without the learned nudge from the Pro-
fessor —“probably in the famous promen-
ade, Unter den Linden.”
But this is a minor detail. Perhaps we
shall never again, as the Boswell papers
come out, strike anything quite so lucky
as the London Journal, so perfect a pic-
ture of a young man first let loose in
the world, so utterly frank, so curious and
complete in the dramatic story of the love-
affair, But, with Boswell, anything is
possible ; and Boswell on the Grand Tour
is still a very pleasant book, infinitely
more readable than the Holland volume ;
smooth, elegant, lively, a little wicked
again from time to time.
Certainly no one who reads it could
doubt, any more than did Rousseau or
Voltaire, that young Baron Boswell was
indeed, as he claimed, “a man of singular
merit.” At 24 —Keats’s age—he had
already in the London Journal, the com-
plete Holland volume if it could be
found, and in The Grand Tour, written
three books that must have won him a
permanent place in English literature:
and there were still to come the Corsica
travels, the tour of the Hebrides, the great
Ufe and Heaven ( and p ro fessor Pottle)
.
kttOWS hOW much 111016.
An Old Inmate ... Kenneth Mackenzie
Joe Green Joe Green O how are you doing
today?
I m well, he said, and the bones of his
head looked noble.
That night they wheeled Joe Green on a
whisper away
but his voice rang on in the ward: I’m a
terrible trouble
to all you girls. I make you work for
your pay.
If I ’ad my way I’d see that they paid you
double.
Joe Green Joe Green for eighty-two years
and more
you walked the earth of your granddad’s
farm downriver
where oranges bigger than suns grow back
from the shore
in the dark straight groves. Your love for
life was a fever
that polished your eye and glowed in
your cheek the more
the more you aged and pulsed in your
voice for ever.
Joe Green looked down on his worked-out
hands with scorn
and tears of age and sickness and pride
and wonder
lay on his yellow cheek where the grooves
were worn
shallow and straight: but the scorn of his
look was tender
like a lover’s who hears reproaches meet
to be borne
and his voice no more than echoed its
outdoor thundeir:
Gi’ me the good old days and the old-time
folk.
You don’t find that sort now you clever
young fellers.
Wireless motorbikes all this American talk
and the pitchers and atom-bombs. O’
course it follers
soon you’ll forget ’ow to read or think or
walk—
and there won’t be one o’ you sleeps at
night on your pillersl
Joe Green Joe Green let us hear what your
granddad said
when you were a lad and the oranges not
yet planted
on the deep soil where the dark wild
children played,
the land that Governor King himself had
granted
fifteen decades ago that the Green men
made
a mile-square Eden where nothing that
lived there wanted.
Joe Green lay back and smiled at the
western sun:
“Fear God and the women, boy,” was his
only lesson,
and love ’em—but on the ’ole just leave
’em alone,
the women specially.” Maybe I didn’t
listen
all of the time. A man ain’t made of
stone . . .
But I done my share of praying and fear-
ing and kissing.
No. I ’ad no dad nor mum of me own—
not to remember—but still I’d a good up-
bringing.
The gran’ma raised thirty-two of us all
alone
child and grandchild . . . Somewhere a
bell goes ringing.
Steps and the shielded lanterns come and
ate gone.
The old voice rocks with laughter and
tears and singing.
Gi’me the good old days . . . Joe Green
Joe Green
how are you doing tonight? Is it cold work
dying?
Not ’alf so cold as some of the frosts I’ve
seen
out Sackville way . . . The voice holds
fast defying
sleep and silence, the whisper and the
trifold screen
and the futile difficult sounds of his old
girl’s crying.
The Soul of Africa
It is strange to see in Llewelyn
Powys’s Black Laughter (Macdonald) the
Kikuyus, now causing so much trouble
in Africa, appearing as the most genial
of natives:
Very different [from the Masais] are the
Kikuyus. For years they have tried to ape
the demeanor and customs of the Masais,
but without success. They are gay, good-
natured, feckless, but lack the cold,
truculent audacity of their old-time foes.
The Masais steal cattle and sheep but
nothing else. The Kikuyus steal cattle and
sheep and anything else they can lay their
hands upon. You can trust a Masai to
stand by you in a tight corner. The
Kikuyu will be off, out of sight, up a tree,
at the first whistle of danger. You can
strike a Kikuyu with impunity, but if you
strike a Masai you had best knock him
senseless, or you will most surely receive
six inches of cold spear in your belly.
But the Kikuyus were not always so
amiable. On one occasion, while he was
managing his brother’s sheep-farm in
East Africa, Llewelyn Powys killed and
cut-up for the natives “an ox that was
too lame to work” ;
When the meat had been divided into
joints and lay in heaps on the grass, I
made as just a distribution as I possibly
could. For some reason the Kikuyus got
into their heads that they were not being
given their proper share. When I tried to
explain they simply jabbered at me.
Presently they began to sulk and swore
they did not want any at all. 1 was sick
and tired of the whole business, and in a
fit of irritation took them at their word
and portioned out the meat amongst the
Swahilis and Kavirondos... ,i had hardly
got inside our house when I heard the
sound of the Kikuyu war-cry; “Uweel
Uweel Uweel” At the same instant
Kamoha came flying in to say that the
Kikuyus were murdering the Swahilis.
Snatching up a rifle, 1 ran back in the
direction of the huts. I found' a veritable
battle in progress, clubs and swords flying
in all directions; one Swahili already on
the ground, another with blood streaming
from a gash in his crown. It struck me
that I might quiet the melee by shooting
over their heads....
It is also strange to think of this
gentlest of English essayists, who once
described with the bland innocence of a
child how he had seen a fairy pop out
of a flower on one of his beloved Dorset
hillsides, shooting over the heads of
enraged Kikuyus, and being bailed-up by
them in great danger of losing his life
until his brother appeared, and being
treed by wild elephants, and stalking a
trapped lion which had pulled its trap
out of the ground and varißshed with it
into the jungle, and riding through a
sleepy but snarling pack of wild dogs
(who, when they run-down a buck, keep
the carcass tossing in the air while in a
few seconds they devour everything but
the horns and the hooves; and whom
even the lions fear), and walking across
the veldt with a Boer farmer who calmly
puts his boot into a leopard that is try-
ing to kill his sheep-dog, and burning the
body of a native dead from smallpox,
and getting lost in a bushfire (“Already
scarlet sparks were flying overhead like
a host of red locusts, like fireflies”), and
collecting odd facts about wart-hogs :
After serva 1-cats, wart-hogs were our
most usual quarry. These hideous, heavily-
tusked pigs would set off over the veldt
at a fine pace with their tails held erect.
Whenever they saw fit to go to earth in
one of the disused ant-bear holes which
served them as homes, they would swing •
sharply round so as to enter the aperture
backwards. It was quaint to see them do
this. One speculates as to the number of
severe lessons given to wart-hogs before
they came to understand that to go down
holes head-first put the most undefended
portion of their bodies at a grave dis-
advantage. A wart-hog standing at the
mouth of its hole presents a really impos-
ing front, its great tusks white against
the earth, its head held in readiness for a
swift sally, should one of the dogs come
within reach. On such occasions we could
sometimes make them bolt by stamping
upon the ground above them. Natives
declare that lions, if they are very hungry,
will have resort to this stamping trick and
catch the pigs as they emerge.
No doubt it is just because he was so
gentle a character, always threatened
with the death from tuberculosis which
overtook him in Switzerland in 1939,
and so able to respond with the fullest
sensitivity to the charm and horror of
Africa, that Black Laughter is so excel-
lent a book.
First printed in 1925 and now re-
printed in company with a new edition
of Malcolm Elwin’s fine Life of Llewelyn
Powys from the same publisher, it is
from one point-of-y-iew a delightful little
set of essays, describing with the utmost
clarity and simplicity the life of an
(“Red Page’ continued on page 35}


Senior Store News
weehly news of activities , values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9
TRY THESE
SERVICES
use owr
convert ten t
Lay-by
Service
It’s a wonderful help when
special bargains are being
offered. Just a small de'
posit secures the goods for
you, then pay the balance
off in convenient monthly
payments. Country cus'
tomers, too, can lay-by,
just by forwarding us the
deposit (4A in the £).
We’ll reserve whatever
you want by monthly
payments till finalised.
Second Floor.
at your
Service our
Catering
Staff!
If you’ve a party, wedding
reception or celebration,
our catering experts will
arrange everything for you
. . . food, decorations and
cutlery. We’ll lend our
cutlery, crockery and
glassware for that special
occasion—the charges are
very moderate
Ring M 2401.
Mil
M 2401
ash for
T.O.P.S.
Copyright
for service
T.0.P.5., our Telephone
Orders and Personal Shop'
ping Service, is the easy,
modern way to shop.
Specially instituted for the
benefit of our customers
who for various reasons
find it inconvenient to
come to town, T.O.P.S. is
open from 8.30 a.m. every
day, Monday to Saturday.
Forget-me-not
A special service institute
by T.O.P.S. to help yc
remember those easily to
gotten anniversaries, birtl
days, etc. Just rir
M 2401 and let T.O.P.
register it so that they a
ring you and remind yc
in plenty of time next yea
m
Swj
m
: «
s /% , r ;»
' \ / V \
mmsm.
n
’
Our
beautiful
Contemporary Shop
dj/rO 1 ! j •;^C V '
<S£
is a haven /or ttawnemahers
If you’re dreaming of a home furnished in the modern manner with tasteful, glossy magazine
pieces that can lift a home right out of the ordinary without lifting the budget sky high
T . . our wonderful CONTEMPORARY SHOP can make those dreams come true. High
above the street, indeed high above the usual standard of furniture show-rooms, this
ultra-smart shop within a shop the CONTEMPORARY SHOP was specially designed
for your convenience along sth Avenue lines by our own furniture designers. Here,
in this ultra smart shop within a shop, is every facility for you, the home planner, to select
your furniture and furnishing with the help of our three experienced interior designers. Here, you will
see carpets, ceramics, accessories and stark little knick-knacks.
Here, too, you can seek guidance on how to plan a colour
scheme to suit your home and surroundings, complete a half-
furnished room or furnish a new home. Come,
bring your plans and problems in let us help you create an
unusual and individual furnishing scheme!
Buy your home pin ns ut our . . .
“Home Plans Bureau”
Here you can choose a plan to suit your type of land and to pander to your own particular tastes from
our wide range of at least 25 moderately priced plans all designed by well-known Sydney archrtect
H. L. Divola.
Each plan, with 5 copies of
6 gas;
This includes any necessary ground level alterations.
sd
Contemporary Shop. Third Floor. Home Plans Bureau. Third Floor.
“truth in advertising- i
.nthony Horderns
fsd
PHONE T. O. P. S. (M 24 0
I ) FOR
YOUR
ORDER
OR
MAIL
O BOX


The Little Boy
From Pentridge
By M.G.S.
GENERAL Gordon, Adam Lindsay
Gordon, Burke and Wills, the
n ‘ e ° r B e Ehginbotham, C.J.,
. anc * the Boy who was carved at
s tiffly down fr ° m
pedestais m Spring-street, Melbourne, and
walked over to the Imperial Hotel.
Ihe judge was hampered by his
ermines, and the explorers, the poet and
the general by the rigidity the sculptors
had given to their muscles, but the boy
irom Pentridge ran lightly across the
street and was first inside the hotel bar.
The barmaid showed no surprise at see-
ing them—they always turned up when
some calamity was threatened to the
city.
“What is it this time?” she asked,
“The death of Mr. Wren, Tatt.’s, the
master-plan or the Liquor Act amend-
ments?”
“None of them,” Burke said. “This is
the first really hot day we’ve had this
summer and Wills complained that he
was feeling drier than he did at Cooper’s
Creek in June 1861 ”
“Do you think,” said the judge to the
barmaid, “you should give the boy beer
at his age?”
“Well, it never did you any harm, sir,
did it?” said Adam Lindsay Gordon.
“Possibly it didn’t,” said General Gor-
don, “but do you think he should run
around naked? It’s bad enough him
standing up there on his pedestal with
nothing on all these years.”
“Well, General,” replied the poet, “I
am surprised at you taking the valuation
of that Collingwood councillor who said
that the statuary in Melbourne’s public
places is indecent.”
“So it is,” growled Burke, while Wills
grunted in agreement. “Look at what
the sculptor has done to my joints and
to my companion’s. Do we look as if
we could have made that dash from south
to north across the continent?”
“You don’t look as if you could lift
a glass of beer, the way the sculptor has
done your elbow,” said the poet. “But
do I look as if I could throw my leg
across a horse, much less make it per-
form that feat at the Blue Lake when
I”
“You’ve told us about that before,”
interrupted the explorer. “It was a silly
bit of skiting. If I had had your senti-
mental attitude to horses I wouldn’t have
got very far as an explorer. Explorers
use the horse and understand it. It is
doubtful if they love it.”
“But I never did like horses, really,”
expostulated the poet; “or the company
they took me into, either. Read my
letters.”
“Then why,” said Burke, “did you
write that verse the sculptor has inscribed
on your pedestal: ‘Of the works of His
hand. By sea or by land. The horse may
at least rank second’?”
“I was just doing a crawl to these Aus-
tralians,” said the poet, “They’re mad
on horses.”
“And that, I suppose,” said Chinese
Gordon, “is why they call you Australia’s
national poet.”
“Just as they call you the saviour of
the Chinese people,” said Burke. “The
thousands you killed or helped to kill
could hardly expect to agree with that
estimate of your performance.”
“But look at the work I did for desti-
tute children,” said the General,
“Talking about children,” interrupted
the Chief Justice, “I’ve been observing
that boy. It’s serious enough for him to
have no clothes on, as the General says,
especially with a lady present, but glass-
for-glass he has drunk as much beer as I
have whisky. Do you think that’s right?”
“Well, don’t forget, your Honor,” said
A. L. Gordon, “that he was carved by a
convict at Pentridge and may have mixed
with some of the people you put there
and picked up some of their wicked
habits.”
“Very sad,” sighed the judge.
“Not so sad,” replied the poet, “as
that you were carved by some respectable
academic sculptor and look a stiff old
bore, while he, who was carved by a
disreputable horse-thief, looks so swift
and lithe and lovely that I would like
to write a poem about him.”
“Why, gentlemen, must you always
quarrel when you come in here?” re-
marked the barmaid. “If you go on
like this I will be wishing that the next
time you take an airing you go down to
Young and Jackson’s and pay your re-
spects to ‘Chloe’.”
“Well, I can’t bear the way I have
been immortalised,” said the poet. “They
admired me for all the things I didn’t
admire in myself during my lifetime,
and that is why I shot myself, really.
And now they’ve got me sitting in riding-
costume on a chair with my saddle and
bridle underneath it trying to look like
a poet. The sculptor got a medal for it.”
The barmaid held up her hand and
nodded towards the half-doors, which
had just swung open.
A long thin figure in alabaster, with
no eyes, no ears, no mouth, but two
noses and three breasts, labelled
“Women,” stepped in. It had to bend
double to get through the doorway. It
was followed by a roughly-adzed block
of freestone labelled “Justice.” A half-
ton ball of clay full of lumps and hollows
and labelled “Maternity” came waddling
after, breathing hard, followed by sundry
strange shapes in wood and marble. The
tail of the procession was a contraption
of wood and wire which rattled loudly.
“I think they must be from the Mod-
em Art Show,” said the barmaid; then
she whispered to the poet, “You should
consider yourself lucky. See what you
would have looked like if you had shot
yourself sixty years later.”
The poet hastily drained his glass and
rushed out into Spring-street, which was
beginning to fill with hurrying people
and motor traffic. He climbed onto his
pedestal, picked up his pencil and note-
book, crossed his legs, placed his right
arm in his lap, threw his left arm
negligently over the back of his chair
and, with a savage glance at his friends
who were awkwardly resuming their
poses, relapsed into contemplation.
The Boy leapt over his pool, climbed
his pedestal, placed his basin on his
head, turned the tap, and the fountain
sparkled in the sunshine.
One-Track Mind
BARNEY had been breathing
rather stertorously. As it
couldn’t have been from over-
eating—he had had only half-
a-dozen dog-biscuits in milk and a
pound or so of meat —I decided to
take him to a vet. It could be in-
cipient cardiac trouble or some res-
piratory disease.
The vet. was on his back lawn —
it was Sunday morning—practising
chipping with a No. 8 iron. He
looked up as I walked in.
“There!” I said. “That’s the car-
dinal mistake which causes most
golfers to mess-up their shots. In
looking up, your head, and conse-
quently your left shoulder, came up.
That’s how you top the ball. I
know it is difficult to eliminate it,
but I cured the fault by invariably
spitting at where the ball had been a
second after I had hit it. You should
try it.”
“Yes, yes,” he said —rather testily,
I thought. Apparently I had put my
finger accurately on his golfing weak-
ness. “What,” he asked, “is the
trouble with the dog—other than
being nearly twice the weight he
should be?”
“Does it matter yet?” I replied,
“I was interested in the grip you used
for that last shot. It was rather
higher up the handle than is usual for
the short approach.”
“The pro. recommended it because
of my height,” he said. “What did
you say you came to see me about?”
“Breathing short,” I replied. “Now
your backswing”
“Yes, I heard you puffing as you
came in. You’re like your dog, over-
weight. You should see your doctor
about a diet. I wouldn’t be surprised
if you both had worms.”
“Look,” I said, “damn the dog.
Let’s see you try that approach-shot
again, I think your backswing’s all
wrong and your feet are too wide
apart. You’ve got them as if you
were driving off with a wood! And I
notice you stab at the ball instead
of letting the slope of the clubface
do the work. The follow-through
will ensure that you get the correct
loft and backspin which will prevent
the ball from rolling far when it
pitches on to the green.”
“Have you wormed him lately?”
he asked.
“I gave him worm-syrup in his rum
the other night,” I said.
“Rum!” he exclaimed. “What do
you give him that for?”
“Primarily, because he likes it,”
I explained. “Also, it warms him —
I sometimes see him shivering. You
may be like a lot of golfers, afraid
to take a divot”
“All dogs shiver at times, for no
particular reason,” he said sharply.
“You take no more notice of that
than a woman crying. Has he had
any powders lately?”
“Just an A.P.C. now and then,
whenever he looked as if he might
have a headache. Now about your
backswing”
“Giving a dog rum!” the vet. said
heavily. “I’ve never heard of it.
Even if he were shivering with
fear”
“He was fear-stricken once. He
woke trembling from a bad dream,
possibly of a fight with a mastiff. I
gave him a stiff o.p. rum and he
rushed out the front gate. I heard
later he went to a near-by circus and
tried to do the Bengal-tiger over.
Do you find that putting your weight
on to your back foot for an explosive
shot out of a bunker is beneficial?”
I could tell by the sudden light in
his eye that I had struck a chord.
“Yes,” he said eagerly. “I also
find I’m never off the fine with my
short-iron game if I have the heel
of my right shoe in line with the
ball —look, can’t you keep your
blasted dog out of the way? How do
you expect a man to do a decent
downstroke with him rushing in to
play with the ball?”
“Well, I brought the dog for you
to see,” I protested.
“I’m not blaming you for bringing
him,” he said, “but my cursed ap-
proach-shots will keep going along
the ground instead of lofting.”
“ That's your trouble!” I ex-
claimed. “You’re using a closed face
instead of an open one.”
“What do you expect—a man to go
around fly-catching?” he barked.
“No, no, your club- face,” I said.
“But about the dog”
“To hell with the dog!” he ex-
claimed. “Look at that one—straight
along the ground again!”
“That’s because you failed to cock
your wrists just before you got to the
bottom of the downswing,” I ex-
claimed.
“Here”—l took the club from him
and pushed forward one of the heap
of balls near his feet. “Now look
closely at me. As I commence the
backswing my left shoulder goes
down, my eyes are fixed immovably
on the ball. Left arm rigid, left
elbow in to my side, left knee bent.
Now I commence the downswing,
perfectly relaxed. Near the bottom
of it I cock my wrists, head still
down, then through and up, still re-
laxed, eyes still on where the ball
was.”
As the ball sped straight along the
grass I handed him the club. “Badly-
weighted stick,” I pronounced. “I
wonder how you ever hit a ball
straight with it. I’d sling it away if
it'were mine. I was wondering if
the dog was lacking in some vitamin.
He chewed the cover off a book the
other day, probably to get at the paste
in the binding.”
“There’s nothing wrong with the
club,” the vet. returned hotly. “I
can get a hundred and forty yards
out of it every time I hit with it,
and it’s one of a graded set specially
selected by a pro. I”
“Barney had a skin-rash a few
days ago and wouldn’t stop scratch-
ing. Do you think it was because
his blood is overheated?” I asked.
“Blood be damned! ”he said. “It’s
the way you hold the club. The way
you gripped it you’d slice it every
time. Your backswing wasn’t half
high enough”
“The dog keeps twitching and
groaning in his sleep, and he some-
times paws at his mouth. I”
“And your feet were all haywire.
I suppose,” he went on, “if the
truth’s known you play off about
27!”
This was too much. “If you vet. as
good as you play golf,” I shouted,
“you’d probably diagnoft roup for a
Saint Bernard that had frostbite.
Come on, Barney!”
Bo.
IT'S A PITY ABOUT THE PUB
By Nancy Cato
NO doubt it is gratifying to read of
such great undertakings as the
Snowy Mountains Development
Scheme ; but I can’t help feeling
sad for the little towns like Cooma,
Adaminaby and Jindabyne, now full of
prefabricated houses and Progress ; the
two last of those places are due to disap-
pear beneath huge man-made lakes before
long,
Perhaps it was because I had spent the
night before marooned in a car in a bliz-
zard, up beyond Kiandra, that made
Adaminaby and its hotel seem one of the
pleasantest places I had ever stayed in.
Imagine a little wooden town, set on the
inner slope of a grassy amphitheatre,
bathed in the cold, clear sunlight of the
highlands at the beginning of winter.
There is one church, one school and one
pub.
From the bar of the hotel towards night
comes a drowsy beelike hum of male
voices. The mail-man, just in from
Kiandra, is shaking the snow off his boots
and telling a tall story about his dog, as
he downs a hot rum. The main diet in
Adaminaby in winter is rum—rum and
raspberry, rum and milk, rum and ginger-
ale and just plain neat rum, all of which
keep out the cold.
In the wide, open fireplaces, both up-
stairs and down, are burning bright fires
of 3ft. logs ; the dining-room is warm,
Hotwater-bottles are provided for guests,
And in this ancient wooden building
there is a modern bathroom, with hot
water, gleaming pipes and a color-scheme
of warm peach-pink.
True, there was no cold water on any
of the few mornings of my stay, because
the pipes were always frozen, so that it
was not possible to have a shower with*
out being scalded to death. The thing
was to fill the bath with boiling water
and then go back to bed and wait for it to
cool-off. There were few other guests,
and some clothing and towels scattered
about the bathroom were enough to indi-
cate possession of the cooling tub.
On the last morning of my stay, when
some employees of the New South Wales
Roads Board (suitably plied with rum)
had pulled our car out of the drifts that
threatened to engulf it for the winter, I
walked to the edge of the plateau and
looked back over the sunny, grassy space
that is now to be filled with six (or is it
16?) times as much water as there is in
Sydney Harbor.
From the schoolhouse at the top or
the rise came the high, clear voices of
children singing, blending with the music
of the wind in a row of pines. That wind
was full of height and space, I walked
a few yards further, and there, all unex-
pected, away beyond an enormous valley
and a line of low hills still brown with
summer, lay the Snowy Mountains, their
blue sides veined with whitest snow. In
that clear atmosphere they looked both
near and unattainable remote,
Well, I like to think that I shall be
drinking, away in Adelaide, some of the
water from the snows that melt on those
lovely slopes, when the great works are
complete; water which will travel round
more than a thousand miles of bends in
the Murray River before it comes to
Mannum and the pipeline which is even
now being carried across the Mount
Lofty Ranges to this thirsty capital. But
I’ll be sorry, all the same, that it was
necessary to drown the Adaminaby Hotel,


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 13, 1954
YoL 75—No. 3857
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521:
‘Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington
FINANCE-CONFERENCE TASKS
The Sydney gathering of British Commonwealth
Finance Ministers speaks for an area three times that
of the United States, holding almost four times the
United States population and three times that of the
Soviet Union. It should have a great impact on world
action and on the future of the Commonwealth if its
decisions are progressive and inspiring and can be
carried out.
In point of fact there is not much in a major
sense for discussion, even though there are differences
of opinion on tariffs and preferences. Mr. Menzies,
prior to the conference, stated the main need of the
British Commonwealth and the sterling area in general
—“that the greatest factor in improving the balance of
trade and payments must always be increased produc-
tion, and particularly production for export.” And for
ourselves “many vital aspects of production represent
our own problems—problems of knowledge, skill and
energy—and nobody else can solve them for us.”
The main work for the conference lies in correlat-
ing resources for mutual benefit to provide a free-
world, instead of compartmented, exchange ; for it is
also plain that in countries like Australia —and that
goes for the Asiatic countries and S. Africa, and
even Canada, which has been absorbing huge amounts
of imported capital since the war —“all the necessary
capital for expansion is not easily saved even under
the most favorable circumstances.” It is plain that
at this stage much of the money for our development
“must come from sterling and dollar sources outside
Australia through public borrowing, private invest-
ment and earnings by exports.”
The problem of the British Commonwealth as a
whole is to spread its capital resources and apply its
labor forces where they will do most good and where
they will tend to strengthen the British nations as a
whole. This, in view of the diversity of political
development, social outlook and physical ability of
populations, is no easy matter. The United Kingdom,
which sends a Chancellor of the Exchequer to Aus-
tralia, for the first time in history, to attend the con-
rerence, is a shining example of what can be done in
giving self-help through redistribution of resources.
Virtually all the human capital of Australia has co.me
from the British race ; and the little country whose
representative has arrived here in the proud guise
“not of a Croesus bulging with wealth but as an Atlas
bearing a very heavy world burden” of responsibili-
ties in development and defence carries it with
the aid of the production, direct and indirect, of an
area a thirtieth the size of Australia. Its joint types of
effort yield no less than 60 per cent, of the gross
earnings of the sterling area, for which it carries a
very heavy proportion of the responsibility as a
banker. And the transformation of the sterling-area
deficit of £lOOO million sterling in June, 1952, into a
credit balance of £4OO million sterling in June, 1953,
is very largely due to its effort.
About £lOO million in investments from
the U.K. was authorised in Commonwealth countries
last year, and this seems to set a minimum level for
the next few years.
The hint of conditions which Mr. Butler gave in
his statement to the Press seems to be the key to the
overseas investment future:
We want to bring in results to the balance-of-
payments rather than purely social projects or
amenities. We want to see projects which wiU yield
dividends and, so to speak, lay eggs.
He must feel a little disheartened at prospects in
Australia as he views Sydney—a city in whose centre
building is virtually at a standstill save for Govern-
ment enterprises, whose derelict projects for the
Eastern Suburbs railway are obvious at Circular
Quay, and whose transport speaks for itself. At the
moment when he was stating his formula Mr. Cahill
was crying for an extra £2,000,000 to complete a total
of £30,000,000 to hasten the construction of the
’ lagging Warragamba Dam to provide mostly unpro-
ductive water for the city, while Britain cries out
for meat. The sum which he longs to spend at once
for the comfort of his city and that which his Mr.
Heffron yearns to lay out in extending the benefits
of “education,” in social science and civics and other
political flummery would build the western Queens-
land and Northern Territory railway-system which
the Commonwealth has in mind and maintain it for
years.
The fact that the conference is meeting in the
midst of a 2,000,000-population city where 166 years
ago this month the first trees were being cut down after
THE ALCHEMISTS
eight months’ voyage away from European civilisation
advertises what has been done in Australia and what
can be done if its Governments will bring their heads
down to earth and join the United Kingdom, Canada
and the new Indias in promoting free enterprise and
investment and the hard work which is sending them
ahead like rockets while Australian “Labor” poli-
ticians, who control the major States, preach their
pernicious doctrines of the class-war, of loaf, of enmity
to the boss, of regulation, totalitarianism and every-
thing which is bringing about stagnation in effort here
and which eventually must make the life of any country
drab and poverty-stricken.
Recession Talk
Throughout the closing months of 1953 there was
much talk of the possibility of a recession in the
United States during the current year. It wasn’t really
new talk ; much the same sort of thing has been going
the rounds ever since the end of the war. Partly it
has been inspired by wishful thinking—the Com-
munist line for the past eight years has been the
imminent collapse of U.S. capitalist economy—and
partly by a fear that history must repeat itself. This
latter school argues that, as the First World War was
followed by the 1929 crash which ushered in the depres-
sion of the ’thirties, something similar must inevitablv
come as a result of World War 11.
Jealousy of the United States is an ever-preseni
factor; the latest manifestation of it here is the talk,
mouthed eagerly by Communist and Leftists and
repeated by others who should know better, of the
“sell-out of Australia’s oil.” In international affairs
jealousy appears to be an unavoidable accompani-
ment of success. When Britain was on top of the
world she was the main target for it, and the Old
Country still comes in for a share of the malice and
venom, but this is mostly a hangover from- the past;
it is America’s turn to be the world’s Aunt Sally.
This jealousy ignores all that America has done
for the free world since the end of the war or dis-
misses it ungraciously on the grounds that it was done
for her own ends. Such an attitude is unrealistic , no
nation (and hardly any person) ever acts in an entirely
altruistic or disinterested manner, but no nation in
history has ever given on so vast a scale or with so
few strings attached to its gifts as has the America o
the Truman-Eisenhower era. In the eurrent year the
U.S. Foreign Aid programme will exceed 5800 million
dollars. The bill for 1952-53 was even bigger—64oo
million dollars —and the total paid out since 1945
runs into staggering figures. What the knockers tend
to forget is that the money for these programmes has
to be found by the American taxpayers and its expen-
diture has to be justified by the Government to the
electors.
There may be plenty of scope for argument as
to the extent to which the United States has benefited
from the rehabilitation of Europe, but there can be
no denial that without U.S. aid European recovery-
including British recovery—would have taken much
longer.
The certainty of this makes the question of an
American recession all the more important to the rest
of the world, since it could not fail to have repercus-
sions on all Western countries. Quite apart from
those who want to see an American depression and
those with a fatalistic fear that it can’t be avoided,
there is quite a lot of sober opinion leaning towards
the recession theory—so much so that the New
York Times” commented last week that on New
Year’s Eve Wall-street was still unable to make up its
mind whether it was seeing the first months of a six-
month recession or the first months of a depression
that might last two or three years.
The year just closed saw the U.S. gross national
product improve by five per cent, over 1952 to a new
peak of 367,000 million dollars. Personal income
showed a corresponding increase, and the amount lett
after the tax-collector called was also a record. Em-
ployment reached a new high, with 61.9 million per-
sons on the payroll; over a million houses were built
during the year, foreign trade reached a record figure
and steel-production, at 11U million tons, was the
highest ever. Summing-up, the “New York Times”
concluded that the United States was in a healthy
economic position.
President Eisenhower, in his report to the nation
on his first year of office, expressed a similar opinion.
He told his people that his Administration believed
that “we must not and need not tolerate a boom-
and-bust America.” He continued:
We believe that America’s prosperity does not
and need not depend upon war or the preparation
lor war. We know that this great country can make
the adjustments necessary to meet changing circum-
stances without encouraging disaster and without
bringing about the economic chaos for which tne
Communists hope.
This is more or less the view expounded by J. B.
Condliffe, Australian-born Professor of Economics at
the University of California, in an article he wrote for
the current issue of the Institute of Public Affairs (Vic.)
“Review.” Pointing out that in the last eight years
the American economy had gone through the phases
of conversion from war to peace, with a considerable
measure of disarmament, then a partial reconversion
to rearmament, now beginning to taper off, he said
that on the whole it had taken all those changes in its
stride. Professor Condliffe feels that “there is little
likelihood that any recession will be allowed to develop
into the destructive downward spiral of a major
depression.” He observes:
In too many countries economic policy is still
directed towards warding off the depression o£ the
nineteen-thirties. Risks are not run and hampering
regulations are not removed because of this deep-
seated bogy. Eight years after the war, with at
least two minor recessions overcome and a third
expected recession likely to he limited in time and
scope, it is time that this bogy was laid to rest.
A large body of opinion in Australia, particularly
in that party allegedly led by Dr. Evatt, would do well
to give that paragraph due thought. And all Aus-
tralians might give thought to the three ingredients
President Eisenhower considers essential to the pros-
perity of his country —sound planning, aggressive
enterprise and a persistent and reasoned faith in its
growth and progress.
The same three ingredients could maintain pros-
perity in Australia, notwithstanding a recession in
America. The planning must not be all Government
planning; industry and commerce also need to look
and plan ahead. The “aggressive enterprise” must
permeate industry at all levels from the fop executive
to the man on the bench if production costs are to
be brought down. Given these two things in abundant
measure and with a “persistent and reasoned faith in
their country —not merely a blind optimism Aus-
tralians should have no fear of their ability to weather
the backwash of an American recession—if one should
occur.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Chaos and the Cure
It is easy to sympathise with, if not to
condone, the attitude of the South
Koreans who are threatening to use
military action to release the 22,000 anti-
Communist prisoners who are still
languishing in Indian-guarded camps in
the “demilitarised” zone of Korea, which
is about as “demilitarised” as any other
war front.
While they lie there China goes on
with its policy of keeping the war alive
so as to squander the time and resources
of the West, and hold thousands of peace-
able American, British and Australian
youngsters manning trenches instead of
living their own lives at home.
All this is designed and deliberate, and
will continue as long as the West is
foolish enough to play.
Having conducted the peace negotia-
tions by shrieking across the conference-
table the kind of gutter abuse which has
not been heard in relationships be-
tween civilised countries since the Dark
Ages, until the patience of U.N.O. broke
and its delegates retired, the Chinese have
called for an immediate resumption of
the “peace talks” —or, rather, of the talks
about calling a political conference to
discuss “peace.” Chou En-lai, the Chine&
“Premier,” apparently wishes the
“explanations” to prisoners-of-war refus-
ing repatriation—l4,ooo Chinese have
refused to go home —should be allowed to
continue indefinitely.
There was a threatening note in his
statement which mentioned “certain
pressing international problems in Asia
w’hich have developed to the stage when
they have to be examined by the great
Powers.”
No doubt while the West and East
think differently in terms of the problems,
and the Russians and Chinese find theirs
in the rumored Turkish-Pakistani defence
agreement and the resurgence of Japan,
there are some others which need to be
urgently and firmly handled. The new
advance by Communist troops in Indo-
China which was reported at the week-
end, the techniques of infiltration which
are being used in India, in Burma, in
Siam by Communism, the methods
pursued by the Russians and Chinese of
using the North Koreans as a front to
hide the fact that the Communist bloc
is making war on the West all pose ques-
tions which are very urgent indeed. But
no discussion is likely to settle them if
the experience of Korea and Germany
goes for anything.
The only basis for discussion seems to
be to lump the whole of the issues as one,
and for the West to come down with a
concrete plan and a concrete timetable
which says that if war in Korea is
resumed and war in Indo-China extended
it will be taken as read that the real
aggressors must pay, and that the Com-
munist bloc will be expelled from U.N.O.
and completely isolated diplomatically
until it begins to show a better spirit.
It is the act of madmen to allow
Russia to continue to be a major influence
in U.N.O. while Moscow continues its
present world policy. It is equally insane
to allow that country to maintain its
embassies with all the freedom of move-
ment which its officials possess within
English-speaking nations. The Berlin
Conference now being organised should
be Communism’s last chance.
What's Happening to GATT?
There has always been an element of
mystery about GATT —the General
Agreement on Trade and Tariffs which
was devised as a makeshift in 1947, and
now regards itself as a fixture in the
international scene —but the developments
(or lack of ’em) last week were the most
mysterious so far. First came the report
that Australia, along with Brazil and
Peru, had failed to sign the declaration
extending GATT tariff concessions for
another 18 months.
This met with a mixed reception.
Manufacturing interests threw a hat or
two in the air and said it was a sound
decision, but Sydney Chamber of
Commerce president was unwilling to
believe that the failure to sign could be
anything but an oversight which “should
be quickly rectified.”
After 24 hours Prime Minister Menzies
issued a statement which indicated that
the omission was neither a decision nor an
oversight; it was just that Cabinet had not
made up its mind by December 31, “owing
chiefly to the illnesses of the Minister for
Trade and Customs, Senator O’Sullivan,
and the Minister for Commerce and
Agriculture, Mr. McEwen.”
To make the matter a little more com-
plicated the Prime Minister added that
failure to sign had not altered Australia’s
position under GATT, and that even if it
was ultimately decided not to sign this
would not mean that Australia was out
of the agreement. “We would still be
bound by the GATT rules and could not
vary the tariff concessions except in
accordance with the provisions of the
agreement.”
The layman can be excused for asking
why, in that case, anyone troubled to sign
it at all or, alternatively, why Australia
postponed a decision which meant so
little. Mr. Menzies’s position is, of
course, that Australia is seeking a revision
of GATT, and that it was agreed at the
1953 meeting that the next session should
consider to what extent this was desirable.
Next session means October, 1954, and
in the meantime Australia has to consider
the effects of the admission of Japan to
the scheme, the obstacles presented by
GATT to an extension of Empire prefer-
ences and the changed world-trade situa-
tion brought about by the disappearing
Government - to - Government trading.
Australia has had one material benefit
under the scheme: a reduction in the US.
tariff on wool.
On to Slavery
The advice of Barwick, Q.C., which
runs with a commonsense reading of
the N. S. Wales Government’s com-
pulsory-unionism legislation, makes it
clear that anyone who is seriously bent
on it can avoid being dragged by the
heels into a union by bullying agitators
supported by Mr. Cahill’s totalitarian
police machinery. Objectors can suc-
ceed if they object to joining a body
which supports or makes contributions
to a political party which they oppose;
who are opposed to the principles of
political unionism ; who find a confiden-
tial position incompatible with the obli-
gations of unon-membership; who be-
lieve that unionism has caused industrial
unrest through strikes and otherwise;
who have religious objections or objec-
tions based on 4he fundamental free-
STERLING AND
SELF-HELP—page 14
doms. The grounds which counsel have
drafted are ten in number, the final one
being:
As a European migrant, and having
experienced totalitarianism in my own
land, I feel this Act is the first step
towards the destruction of liberty and
freedom in this country.
The Government, however, is not dis-
mayed. It views the matter on the most
sordid and publicly immoral level, a
Cabinet Minister telling the Press that
“people would be mugs to pay £2 into
consolidated revenue when they will get
no benefit from it, while they could re-
ceive all union benefits by simply paying
their union subscription.” And, of
course, if that argument does not apply
there are others, more practical but
which even a N. S. Wales “Labor”
Minister would not dare to advocate in
public. Conscientious objectors will be
marked men and women whom the
whole power of unionism and the Cahill
Government will be used to coerce or
ruin. Their names will be on record.
If the unions can prevent their employ-
ment they will do it. Pressure will be
exerted on their fellow-unionists to out-
law them. And, worst of all, the State
will register them, fine them an amount
every year equal to what they would
have paid had they joined, and brand
them as a class apart disapproved of by
the law.
The basic freedom of Australians to
hold their opinions and act according
to their consciences in religion and
politics is not only a concern but the
primary concern of every member of
the Federal House as well as the N. S.
Wales Parliament.
Unequal Struggle
Coastal shipping along the New South
Wales seaboard, once a,flourishing and
prosperous industry, has fallen on evil
days, A year or so ago the Illawarra and
South Coast Co., after several successive
years of running at a loss, gave up the
struggle and sold its ships and assets.
Now the North Coast Co. looks like call-
ing it a day. At its annual general meet-
ing last August the chairman, reporting
the company’s first trading loss for more
than half a century, said that higher
operating-costs, industrial troubles, a de-
cline in sugar-production and a falling-
off in timber shipments were contributing
factors to the loss, but he complained of
unfair competition from the Government
railways. Quoting reports that rail
freights on bulk loadings for Lismore had
been reduced by 50 per cent, he said:
There appears little doubt that the Rail-
way Department is making a determined
effort to eliminate at all cost sea competi-
tion to and from the North Coast of
N.S.W. irrespective of the effect on the
economy of the State. It will be realised
that private enterprise cannot trade profit-
ably when it has to compete with a
Government instrumentality which is pre-
pared to operate with resulting heavy
deficits.
It seems against all reason that this
line of ships, which has been associated
with the development of the North Coast
districts since the ’eighties, should be
allowed to go out of existence through
the purblind policy of a Socialist Govern-
ment which bills the taxpayers for millions
of pounds every year to meet the losses on
its bankrupt railways, yet wages a savage
rate-war against a concern which is giving
a real service to the community, but
which, unlike the railways, has to pay its
way.
The little coasters have held their own
in the past against reasonable rail com-
petition, and could no doubt continue to
do so. The Cahill Government has had
plenty to say about improving outport
shipping facilities. Here is its chance to
demonstrate the honesty of its intentions.
No subsidy is asked, merely fair play.
Well Done. Hoad!
The Davis Cup excitement was just
dying down when somebody discovered
that 19-year-old Lewis Hoad, co-star
with 19-yeax-old Ken Rosewall in the
tennis victory for Australia, was due for
compulsory military service, having had
one deferment. RosewalTs flat feet dis-
qualify him from military training.
At once sections of the Press got
ready to kick up a fuss. Hoad would
have to miss this and that in tennis, it
was hinted that to stop playing for a
while might ruin him for life or some-
thing, and lurking in the background was
an inference that the military ought to
know better.
Just when everything was nicely worked
up for a Press outburst against the
call-up and the usual “Indignant Reader”
was preparing to write a scathing letter,
the young man calmly announced that
he wished to do his military service just
like anybody else and would resume his
tennis career when it was done. And
the bubble burst before it was properly
blown.
Well done, Hoad!
The Menace of the Ban
Twice last month (B. 9/12/’53 and B.
30/12/’53) it was here remarked that the
proposals of sundry Australian States
to make new laws for the censorship of
literature constituted a danger generally
and ought to receive more attention than
was then being displayed. Whereupon,
one Sydney daily newspaper blossomed
out with special articles, and N.S.W.
Opposition-leader Treatt described the
Sydney Government’s proposed censor-
ship as “a sinister threat.”
To this Chief Secretary Kelly let him-
self go: Treatt “joins forces with a Press
that has been making a special feature
of pornography to help preserve to its
moron readers those unsavory photo-
graphs, drawings, and writings which
disgust and appal all ordinary right-
thinking people.” This Kelly would
be the Minister who would administer the
censorship, and his reaction and langu-
age show pretty clearly the type of mind
which proposes to tell us what we may
or may not read, and to define porno-
graphy definition of which would
would baffle a modern Solomon.
Melbourne “Age” went to South
Africa to find out what was being done
there under a new Customs regulation on
the same subject. It says tha); one result is
that South Africans can’t be sure from
day to day whether they have a book on
their shelves which could cost them a
£lOOO fine and jail for five years, since
readers as well as booksellers are liable.
All attempts to find out what books are
banned have failed. In other words, all
books are banned until the South African
Minister for the Interior says they aren’t.
“The Age” man adds: —“I understand
that political considerations may now
come within the scope of the term ‘objec-
tionable,’ which has raised the whole
question of Press and literary censor-
ship.”
In N.S.W. a Government responsible
for a law to compel newspapers to dis-
close sources of information about alleged
corruption in Sydney City Council
would undoubtedly use the very wide
powers of the proposed censorship for
political ends. The measure of its sin-
cerity lies in its professed concern for
the effect of printed matter on public
morals while it encourages racecourse,
dogtrack and lottery gambling and had to
be forced by public clamor to investigate
liquor rackets and the association of one
of its Ministers with, a well-known
forger.
Ail the States now dabbling with
this censorship notion already have laws
to deal with publishers and sellers of
offensive literature. That some of the
trash on sale ought to be dealt with no-
body denies, and it is pertinent to ask
what the police are doing. But the
proposed Acts are so wide in scope and
the method of deciding what is offensive
so loose that they constitute a danger
which cannot be ignored,
A Sea of Beer
Thirty-six years ago, in “Bogandillon’s
Sweep” (B. 28/6/1917), Gordon
Bennett sang a ballad of how the
central Lachlan thought Bogandillon
Jack had drawn the favorite in Tatt’s,
and all hands gathered in the pub,
“seeing visions of the future and its seas
of foaming beer.”
It didn’t come off, because, although
B. had drawn the favorite, all right, it
was merely in a half-crown sweep at
Roto shearing-shed, and the beer
dried-up as soon as the publican dis-
covered the truth. Bennett is dead, with
many of the characters of his day, and
the ballad-writers all are dying out. If
they could have survived to this day
and age they’d have seen their vision of
the foaming beer-seas fulfilled.
For high wages, short hours and full
employment seem to have floated this
country on a flood of beer. In the five
years from 1948 to 1953 we produced
no fewer than 860 million gallons of the
stuff. Last December alone the Carlton
Brewery in Melbourne made over 12
million bottles of it, to which must be
added the production of breweries in all
other States. Annual production jumped
from 146 million gallons in 1948-49 to
199 million gallons in 1952-53.
Nearly 200 million gallons a year
means an annual consumption of well
over 22 gallons a head of population.
Figures are tricky things on which to
hang conclusions about people, but any-
body who cares to take a walk round
Sydney in. the lunch-hour any working-
day can hardly escape concluding that
drinking is being a bit overdone. City
and suburban bars are crowded at this
hour, mostly by men from shops and
offices and factories, all of whom drink
varying quantities and then return to
work. It has become a pronounced
feature of the working-day in recent
years.
Maybe we can stand it. Maybe it is
regarded as essential to the Welfare
State of the body human as well as the
body politic that beer should play a big
part in the workers’ daily diet. But the
high alcoholic content of Australian
beer suggests that both efficiency and
output-capacity per man are being
affected.
It would be interesting to discover,
for instance, what proportion of the
growing number of industrial accidents
occur in the afternoon and what pro-
portion of those involved have a drink
or two in the lunch-hour. It is also
worth thinking about that cases of
intoxicated operators of public-transport
vehicles keep cropping up, while the
cases of drunk drivers of cars and trucks
are not declining. What the remedy is
remains to be seen, but it is obvious that
drinking during working-hours has
grown to rather menacing proportions.
Atom-research and Us
Now and then something happens which
makes a thinking man silently wonder
what kind of a country this booming
Australia is. One such event was the
Press conference held last week in Syd-
ney at which Professor Harry Messel,
head of the Nuclear Physics Department,
announced that he had secured, after a
year’s hard work, a guarantee of £24,000
a year to carry on the research which
his foresight and enthusiasm envisage.,
What the great world of nuclear-
research thinks of Messel and the likeli-
hood of his team producing something of
universal value to science is shown by the
fact that the University of Illinois,
which owns one of the half-dozen major
electronic brains in the world similar to
the two at the great atomic plants at
Oakridge (Tennessee) and Los Alamos,
has agreed to provide the blueprints for
a similar plant at the Physics School in
o Continued on next page)


-0-0
SUPPOSE
YOU WERE
Mr. Menzies?
What would you do? Well, whatever your
decision, you could count on Facts and Figures
on Current International Affairs being presented
to you in shipshape order.
As an intelligent citizen and voter you, too, need the Facts and
References. That is why KEESING'S was started {as far back
as 1931). That is also why so many Bulletin readers have
become subscribers to this unique news-cum-reference service.
Each week they receive by post a supplement which is, in fact,
the essential news, facts and figures of the world. The items
are clearly arranged and there is a cumulative Index by which
any item, whether it be on Politics, Economics, Social Ques-
tions, etc., can be instantly turned up. A special loose-leaf
Binding Case is supplied, making reference simplicity itself.
Published by
KEESING’S PUBLICATIONS LTD.
OF BRISTOL. ENGLAND
POST THIS COUPON NOW—"""'
Australian Representative . J
S JOHN GILMOUR & SONS
! (Contact Mr. Gilmour at Office 1, Floor 10, ■
J Challis House, 10 Martin Place) SYDNEY. BLIIBB. ,
J Please supply x free details of KEESING’S service. i
I Name j
Address B 2 I
»
Sydney, a concession which would repre-
sent a saving in money against construc-
tion from scratch of something like
£50,000.
The machine, which is needed to carry
out the calculations incident to procur-
ing the kind of data about cosmic
phenomena, which can be better obtained
in Australia’s climate than anywhere else
in the world, would be the only one in
the world devoted exclusively to such a
task. But to provide it, even with the
help of Illinois, the patient and enthusi-
astic young scientists are now setting out
to raise another £50,000 piecemeal while
at the same time carrying on their
scientific work.
The subscribers to the Foundation
Fund which made it possible for the
nuclear team to begin work at all in-
cluded one association, the N. S. Wales
Chamber of Manufactures (which or-
ganised its members to raise the money),
and a number of large companies ; but
only one really substantial individual sub-
scriber, G. B. S. Falkiner, of Haddon
Rig. What is good enough for such
companies as C.S.R., Ampol, Mt.
Morgan, the greater banks like the
’Wales, Commercial of Sydney and
E., S. and A. should be good enough for
anybody to support.
One-twentieth of a penny a pound on
the wool-clip of N. S. Wales for four
years (if growers would agree to have
it levied on their returns) would mean a
contribution of £60,000 a year for the
equipment of a department and a team
of scientists which, apart from anything
else, will be of incalculable value to the
defence of the country and probably to
all industry, including wool. And wool-
growers would scarcely feel the impost
in view of the fact that contributions
would be tax-free. The liquor interests,
or, for that matter, the bookmaking in-
terests, could put this vital research centre
on its feet without knowing that it had
done it, so far as the actual net contri-
butions went.
POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney City Council having decided
that the Royal welcome is to be a full-
dress affair, the aldermanic robes, in
mothballs for a score of years, have
been sent to the dry-cleaners. The
council’s dirty linen, however, will be
washed in private, as heretofore.
• •
The aim of the Finance Ministers’
Conference in Sydney is to develop
Empire resources and trade, to reduce
production costs, and to stimulate ex-
ports outside the sterling area. In the
process capital will need to be created,
which means a higher ratio of produc-
tion to immediate consumption: capital
arises out of surplus production of the
right kind. Planning and public works
enter into the scheme of things, of course,
but essentially the spadework is for private
enterprise. Butler, Chancellor of the
Exchequer, has said :
We want to see projects which will
bring in results in the balance-of-pay-
ments. rather than purely social projects
or amenities.
Basically, industry will need to reduce
its costs, expand its production, show
larger profits, and plough-back much of
those profits into bigger and more
efficient production and transport
facilities.
• •
Final result in Gwydir was Allan
(C.P.) 18,409, Quinn (Lab.) 16,431, giv-
ing Allan a majority of 1978 compared
with late member Treloar’s majority of
2313 at the general election in 1951.
Considering the heavy armor thrown
into the fight by both sides the poll was
remarkably low —1800 fewer votes were
recorded than in 1951. Both the Gov-
ernment and the “Labor” totals were
down considerably, and on the basis of
the general-election figures the Govern-
ment vote was reduced by 0.3 per
cent. On that basis Dr. Evatt could
count on winning only one Government
seat, Corio, at a general election. Hubert
Opperman, of course, would have some-
thing to say about that.
• •
“Foreign Aid” has covered a multitude
of services, but this must be the strangest:
Pakistan’s Prime Minister Mohammed
Ali has asked the U.S. to send him a
special investigator, preferably with
F. 8.1. experience, to investigate the as-
sassination of his predecessor, Liaquat Aii
Khan.
• •
One of Cahill’s Ministers is quoted by
the “Sydney Morning Herald” as saying
that the N. S. Wales Government ex-
pected very few conscientious-objectors
to its compulsory-unionism legislation
because
people would be mugs to pay £2 into
consolidated revenue where they get no
benefit from it, while they could receive
all union benefits simply by paying their
union subscription.
If it does nothing else that puts on
record the cash value the N. S. Wales
Government places on a conscience.
Which, perhaps, explains occurrences
like the Doyle-Arthur friendship.
• •
Latest word from Spring-street is that
the Cain Government is not likely to try
to inflict compulsory unionism on Vic-
torians this year. The reason given is that
it would have little hope of getting a bill
through the Legislative Council, where
the two Hollway Libs, hold the balance
of power. Looking Sydneywards Cain
is probably glad to have those two
blokes as a face-saver.
• •
When Churchill’s Conservatives re-
turned to power in October, 1951, they
promised to raise the rate of building
new homes to 300,000 a year. Attlee
and Co. dismissed the promise as elec-
tion bait, but the promise has been made
good; in the year just closed 310,000
houses and flats were built.
• •
It would hardly be expected that the
African groundnut fiasco, which cost
the British taxpayers so many millions,
would have repercussions in Australia,
except perhaps to boost the price of
Kingaroy peanuts, but it has. The Joint
Coal Board’s attempt to sell its surplus
machinery has unearthed the fact that
the disposals market is overstocked, if
not completely swamped, by the now-
unwanted equipment piled up in East
Africa.
• •
Albert Thompson, of the N. S. Wales
Milk Carters’ Union, is in generous
mood; he is going to give employees and
employers in the milk-industry until the
end of February to comply with the In-
dustrial Conscription Act. After that
BASICALLY PRODUCTIVE
“Following the promise by Mr. R. A. Butler, Chancellor of the Exchequer, of
an ‘audacious British policy of investment in Commonwealth development projects,’
several State Governments promptly showed their interest as audacious borrowers.
Mr. Butler has since indicated that British capital will be directed to productive
projects capable of yielding dividends in the form of exportable commodities."
he’ll be reluctantly forced to prosecute.
In the meantime his union, which delivers
the dearest milk in Australia, is asking for
a 25 per cent, rise in wages.
• •
Melbourne’s trammies are protesting
against one-man buses, and the Transport
Minister will receive a deputation this
week. They’re flogging a dead horse;
similar protests in other cities led to
trials which showed that the system is
quite practicable. Private bus services
have been run on that basis for years.
• •
Cahill-Sheahan decided not to appeal
against Mr. Justice Owen’s verdict in the
Press Gag case. Wisdom sometimes
comes a little late.
• •
After 18 months without trams Lon-
don is satisfied that traffic flows much
more easily, there has been a one-third
reduction in accidents to public-transport
vehicles, and everybody is better off. The
Sydney Government has announced its
intention to get rid of the city trams—
unions permitting, of course—but the de-
cision seems to be inspired more by in-
ability to keep them going and the tracks
in repair than anything else. Still, Syd-
ney would be a better —and lot less
noisy—place without them.
A by-election in Dunedin (N.Z.) to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of
“Labor” member Robert Walls resulted in
the return of Mrs. E. E. McMillan
(Lab.) with a majority of 2440 votes ; a
year ago “Labor” won the seat by only
307. The result has caused perturbation
in the Nationalist camp, who put it
down to the rise in the cost of com-
modities following the wage-increase
granted by the Arbitration Court. Mrs.
McMillan is the widow of a member of
a former “Labor” Government and the
initiator of N.Z.’s social - security
system.
• •
What must be the longest migratory
flight on record is now in progress. A
plane left Sweden on January 4 for
Milan (Italy), where it picked up 63
refugees from Trieste for Australia.
From Melbourne it is scheduled to fly
to Hong Kong to take on 52 European
refugees from Communist China for
transport to Belgium, Denmark and
Sweden.
• •
A New York hotel has notified
its guests that they can now
order the sound of steady rainfall if it
helps them to sleep, or if they don’t like
that form of sleep-inducement they can
have the patter of raindrops, the croak-
ing of frogs, chirping of crickets or a
baby’s crying. If none of these succeeds
in lulling them into slumber they can
have sheep counted for them up to any
number. The service seems pretty well
complete, but if the whole repertoire
fails to induce somnolence, no doubt a
recording of a Canberra broadcast could
be added.
• •
A Melbourne City Councillor has sug-
gested that Wirth’s Circus should be allo-
cated space on the Yarra Bank, thereby
releasing the site of Olympia on St. Kilda-
road—recently destroyed by fire —for
the establishment of a cultural centre.
The suggestion has brought protests from
“Labor” members against “alienation of
the parklands,” but possibly there is also
a fear that Wirth’s might compete with
the other Yarra Bank circus for which
“Labor” supplies the main performers.
• •
Some bright lads are blaming the cur-
rent Melbourne water shortage on to the
Federal Government’s defence policy,
which is bunkum. When a Board of
Works pours millions of pounds into a
vast conservation scheme that won’t be
in operation for years and neglects to
supply the pipes to deliver the water it
already has on hand it’s no wonder there’s
a shortage.
• •
It is a happy thought for the coming
year that, as a weekly paper puts it, “re-
ductions in income-tax have been of an
order sufficient to remove the disincentive
effects of tax-rates upon production.”
Dr. Evatt couldn’t have expressed it
better.
• •
One of those perambulating clergymen
went to Russia and found, so he said,
that a bricklayer and two assistants laid
a minimum of 2500 bricks a day and a
maximum of 5000. A Russian asked
him how many a British brickie laid.
When he said 800 the Russian “roared
with laughter.” So would pretty well
any Australian brickie, if asked to do
half that on day-work.
• •
Teasdale, chairman of the Australian
Wheat Board, let out a yell at the week-
end about the “wheat industry facing
its gravest crisis since the depression,”
and urged restriction of acreage and
building of storage bins for “a carry-
over df 60 million bushels.” N. S. Wales
Agricultural Minister Graham, Com-
monwealth Minister McLeay, F. and
S.A. Treasurer Nock and P.P.U. presi-
dent Gibson all promptly said there was
no cause for panic, that acreage-restric-
tion was absurd and that slowness of
export orders was seasonal and normal.
Then Evatt jumped in to say it was all
the fault of the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment, the people would have to pay
more for bread, and Britain should be
told to join the International Wheat
Agreement and demonstrate “solidar-
ity.” When the fuss dies down we may
expect an exodus of Wheat Board offi-
cials tripping all over the world to hawk
wheat.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
TJSEFUL and beautiful as our favorite
7 word “cow” is, I do think it needs a
little watching. A man I know who has
just moved into a new house and has a
heavy clay garden-soil to contend with
told me, with great indignation, he had
ordered a load of manure, “but none of
the cows would deliver any between
Christmas and New Year.” —“Mac-
Hoots.”
*X*
“Macquarie”: At our local show leapt
across the screen in huge letters the
trailer announcement; THIRD DIMEN-
SION IS HERE TO STAY. Then the
feminine star appeared, spoke confiden-
tially to us on the wonders of the new
film and process, and called forth the
male-lead. He went into raptures, with a
Latin accent, then delivered himself of
“First you saw films move; then you
heard speech come to them ; next you
saw the marvel of color; and now we
have —this! You have seen two dimen-
sions on the screen before ; you have seen
height; you have seen width; but now,
now you have —depth. Depth! And
depth is” Pause for effect and phony
search for superlatives. “So permanent! ”
yelled four kids’ voices in unison.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Archaen”: A man who could have
been ahead of the Wright brothers in
making the first airworthy plane was Pro-
fessor Langley, of the U.S. Having built
a successful model, driven by a very light
steam-engine, which flew more than 500
yards in tests, he constructed a full-sized
“You'll cop it from Grandma—sliding in your best pants!"
one. Too old to try it himself, he em-
ployed as pilot a man who had made
many parachute-jumps from balloons,
The jumper lost his nerve just as the
float-plane was about to rise from the
water. Then American newspapers made
savage attacks on Langley: he was little
better than a murderer when he employed
others to test out his crazy contraption!
The old chap put his plane in a shed and
gave up his experiments. Years later a
couple of interested airmen looked at it.
Langley’s plane was reconditioned, towed
out on the Potomac River, the engine
was started and one of the pilots took the
controls. It gathered speed, rose, flew for
some distance and landed again without
trouble. As I remember it,
when the news hit the head-
lines it was decided not to
risk the plane in further tests,
and it was grabbed by the
Smithsonian or some other
museum. Anyone know
where it is now?
“Jemac”: The most dra-
matic scene in the film “The
Cruel Sea” is where Com-
mander Ericson drives his
ship through a group of
struggling survivors and
depth-charges them as well
as the submarine he believes
to be underneath them. He’s
mistaken, of course: only
one ship would be beneath
the survivors—their sinking
own. Ericqson says in justi-
fication: “It must be a Ü-
boat. It’s the natural place
for him to be.” On the con-
trary, it’s the most unnatural
place. Attacking a convoy
circled with escort-ships, the
sub, would have fired its
torpedo from a range of at
least half-a-mile, and would
then have hurried to get clear
of the pointing torpedo-track.
As for being underneath the
survivors—added to the risk
of getting tangled with the
sinking merchantman, there
would be the danger of being
close to where cold sea-water
could reach engine-room boilers already
straining under the pressure of super-
heated steam. In both book and film
it is a great scene—pity it’s based on a
fallacy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Euroclydon”: The littley one had
spent the weekend with his aunt. “You
didn’t forget to say your prayers, did
you?” Mum asked. “I said my prayers
every night,” Littley answered, then added
thoughtfully. “It didn’t take Aunty long
to say her prayers. She just said ‘My
God, it’s cold,’ and hopped into bed.”
* ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: “Three-ply’s” description (B.
30/12/’53) of the decorative preparations
for the Royal visit to Sydney makes one
wonder what the Melbourne authorities
are brewing, scarcely any hints having
come from that direction. If the Christ-
mas-festooning of Batman’s swollen
village is any indication, they will com-
pletely smother whatever pretensions the
city has to natural beatuy. When Philip
the Fourth of Spain set out to meet the
French king at a rendezvous across the
borders of their countries he sent his
court-painter Velasquez ahead to build
a temporary city and gave him carte
blanche with money and labor. Velas-
quez could mobilise a multitude of ex-
pert craftsmen belonging to the generation
which covered the palaces and cathedrals
of Madrid and Toledo with glorious
decoration. The only craftsmen the Mel-
bourne committee can call on are of the
sort responsible for the Housing Com-
mission’s “model” suburbs; and the only
artists available are the modernists re-
sponsible for some recent stage-settings
which would make any respectable
theatre-cat laugh. It will be a miracle if
the result isn’t gimcrackery of the worst
description.
“Mem”: Hollywood has cut-and-dried
methods by which film-characters depart
this life. Not for them the long hours of
Cheyne-Stokes breathing, when the night-
nurses pack the moribund one with
blankets and hotwater-bags to keep him
alive for the day-staff to lay out. Film
goodies who die in bed remain conscious
until the moment of leaving, usually signi-
fled tidily by the sudden relaxation of
the hand, or a sideways roll of the
pillowed head. Baddies, on the other
hand, die with grimaces of pain or alarm,
not surpnsing m the considerable per-
centage who are helped on thetr way by a
bullet. Film obstetrics are arranged with
equal neatness. Advanced labor is usually
signified by an introspective expression on
the mother-to-be, plus gentle perspira-
tion on the forehead and occasionally a
gnawed lower-lip. Parturition completed,
as indicated by the wail of an infant,
Mum is shown receiving her spouse’s tip-
toed homage with a wan, ethereal smile.
It’d be a welcome change to feature a
real-life mother, swigging a cup of tea
with a well-earned relish.
*l* ❖ ❖
_ _ ..o
“Sam”: The parson in charge of our
local “Carols-by-Candlelight” ceremony
apologised for it being longer than had
been planned, adding: “I suppose the
littb children must be very sleepy.” He
needn t have worried. Not far from the
improvised platform in the park were
swings, a slide, and a sand-box. The
unusualness of the hour made their attrac-
tion unusually attractive.
❖ ❖ ♦>
• , , .. . „
“Lever de Rideau”: A Burgundian
hotelkeeper has started a precedent by
installing in his bedrooms, along with
hot-and-cold running water, “running
"5-f . 11 is Probably ™ ordinaire
which i“
it there like water; so the innovation
isn’t so extraordinary as it looks from
this distance. Mine host indignantly
scouts the suggestion that his guests might
abuse this mod.-con. and drink him out
of house and home and themselves into
a stupor. Foreigners might, but a French-
man, who drinks wine as we drink tea,
never would ; and, anyhow, the guests who
stay at his hotel are all true connoisseurs ;
not drunkards. But it would have to be
beer in Australia.
* v
“Tidak Makan”: Maoris have been
hurt by a report of correspondents cover-
ing the Royal tour that a Maori chief
wore a pair of bathing trunks under his
reed skirt. Reminds me. Until Jap ill-
treatment knocked his health about the
Bishop of Labuan used to conduct church-
services in our camp as well as the Brit-
ish p.-0.-w. camp—carrying, at th© same
time, goods and money at great personal
risk between the camps by hiding them
under his cassock or surplice. One
Sunday the Bish. began to produce razor-
blades, and as he swung back his cassock
I saw a set of prominent ribs, a pair of
sandshoes and a pair of black football
shorts.
“Piper”: Pete, a salesman, is visiting
business-houses in Sydney suburbs with
a sample-book of Royal tour-decorations.
Rather diffidently he entered an under-
taker’s parlor, and, surprisingly, found
the solemn gentleman eager to buy.
Pete opened his book on a counter dis-
playing its own sample pictures of un-
festive paraphernalia. “I’ll order that one
for the street-frontage,” said the under-
taker, pointing to the most expensive
decoration, Pete rocked back, and
(counter to his reputation for rapacity
j n ma tter of commissions) persuaded
the undertaks . r t 0 choose on 6 costing
£2O j .. After all Pete red .
... ... , \ c c , ..
wh.te-and-blue band of folded bunting
, rall ]l n ® a lu f e ( , no ,! cc Welcome
hardly seemed the thing. The customer
appeared pleased at Petes honesty,
although his parting remark; I like you,
young, man-hope we can do business
again, might be thought a bit ambiguous,
* * ♦>
.
‘P-0.M.C.": .Another instance of
elbow-grease paying-off better than re-
sponsibility. Over the holidays the
cleaner at our local flea-hatchery, who
happens to be an usherette as well, earned,
w hh overtime, £23. The manager netted
usua j £jg
❖ ❖ *
“ D . A , L .”; Major Earl Wavell, killed in
.. . , ... J A , A ,„ . ’ • , ■
a skirmish with Mau Ma
Kenya, was not the first Wavell to die m
action in East Africa. Another of that
surname, who won fame in the early
1900 s by visiting Mecca in the guise of a
Moslem pilgrim, met his death in World
War I when campaigning in German East
Africa. He commanded a force of
African askaris.
* * ***
, „ ( „ 30/12/ >53) Mys
tba. U.S. fndustrial psycbo.„ f ; eco ? m,se s
( or treatment ol > repeat-victims
a ccidents. A doctor tells me that th
same sort of accident tends to run through
families. If the father breaks a leg, a
son is sure to break an arm or dislocate
a shoulder; if the father smashes up the
truck the younger son is bound to run
his motor-cycle into a gum-tree. There is
obviously a relation here, the cause of
which is buried in the unconscious. The
cures that “Irving” suggests are the
teaching of the normal avoidance-tech-
niques which keep the majority of people
out of trouble, dr the transference of the
victim to a less-hazardous occupation.
These won’t work where there is an un-
conscious motive. The same doctor had
a patient who, when he left his clinic,
went to the railway-station, bought a
ticket for the city and always caught a
train travelling in the opposite direction,
Transferring him to buses wouldn’t have
changed his pattern.
CONCESSIONS
N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. Cahill, gave an assur-
ance that State Parliamentarians would not have a
monopoly of invitations to official functions during
the Royal tour.”
“Here’s a health unto her Majesty!
With a tow j row, row, row, row, row.
No Parliament-monopoly!
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row.
And none who wants to drink her health
Will be kept out by wit or wealth,’’
Said Cahill t doing good by stealth —
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row.
We thought,’’ said Cahill, “it might be
fair
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row.
To ask some vulgar millionaire
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row;
Perhaps a big industrialist.
Or practising non-unionist —
In spite of us, they still exist
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row.
‘The leadj” said Cahill, “I wish to give,
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row.
Is ‘Make it representative,’
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row:
In order not to overlook
Any social niche or nook
We’ll even ask a Queen and Duke,
With a tow, row, row, row, row, row!"
N.s.w,
SWILLIAM.


r F'HE well-dressed mother with the
A vocal toddler came into the milk-
bar and silenced her young with a
chocolate-cone, taking advantage of the
lull to indulge in gossip with a friend.
Meanwhile toddler perceived the milk-bar
cat and offered it refreshment. Pussy
and toddler took alternate licks with evi-
dent enjoyment. Agitatedly, I drew
mother’s attention to this. She was most
surprised. “Fancy,” she said, “a cat lick-
ing chocolate ice-cream! ” —“Narumee.”
*l* ♦>
“Kelvin”: While a late-model car,
driven by a young man, was halted by
traffic-lights a tall stranger asked “How
about a lift, mate? I’m in a hurry.”
The driver obligingly picked him up, but
as soon as the car had got out of busy
traffic, the hitchhiker ordered his bene-
factor to halt and, on meeting a refusal,
struggled for the wheel with the result
that the car came to a halt against a
shop awning. The passenger held the
driver until the police arrived, whereupon
all parties adjourned to the station. It
was found that the car had been stolen
from premises in which the owner, who
was not even aware of its disappearance,
had been attending an art-show. The
hitchhiker was a plain-clothes man who
had noticed the absence of keys from
the halted car’s dashboard.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Scan”: A young ordinary-seaman, I
was determined to impress with my vigil-
ance as a night lookout. As the watch drew
on I began to pray for a suspicious object.
Suddenly, in the rainy blackness of the
North Sea night, I spotted a ship, almost
on our starboard beam, and pursuing a
parallel course. “Green nine-oh, a ship! ”
I yelled gratefully. The officer-of-the-
watch swung his nightglasses briefly to
the bearing indicated. “I thank you, look-
out,” he said courteously. “You can ex-
pect to see her there until we have con-
voyed her to Sheerness.”
ojt
“Oliver Filter”: The last day of the old
year was the deadline for claims by
property-owners for compensation for
what is known as “injurious affection”
under the Cumberland County Council’s
master-plan for Sydney and thereabouts.
Being thus affected, and seeking some
clarity on what is an infernally compli-
cated business, I consulted Town and
Country Planning in New South Wales.
Almost the first thing I read in that
learned volume was: —
Care must be taken to distinguish be-
tween a scheme and a prescribed scheme.
See s. 342k(1>. Also a scheme should not
be confused with a decision to prepare a
“proposal” for a resolution to prepare a
scheme. Ordinance 101, cl. 2, makes it
compulsory for a resolution to prepare a
scheme to be preceded by a decision to
prepare a “proposal” for such a resolution.
At which stage I fled like a startled
rabbit to the nearest warren of lawyers
and cast myself on their mercy.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Hongi”: No wonder some of the
Maoris objected to the laying on the
ground of a sacred kiwi-feather cloak for
“And the future of this great country depends on us.”
the Queen to walk on at Waitangi. These
cloaks —beautiful things—are handed
down from chief to chief for generations,
acquiring all the time more and more
mana, which might be translated as
“sacred prestige,” The equivalent in
England would have been for Sir Walter
Raleigh to lay down for the first Eliza-
beth, not his own cloak but the tra-
ditional vestments of the Archbishop of
Canterbury. He was a wise man who sub-
stituted at Waitangi an ordinary flax-mat,
which is more-or-less equivalent to our
putting down a red carpet.
,
“MacH.”: “S. M. Herald” was hardly
polite in describing King Koroki, whom
Queen Elizabeth went out of her way to
meet, as one reigning monarch with an-
other, as the “self-styled king of the
Waikato Maoris.” Koroki didn’t style
himself king, but is, to quote my Who’s
Who in New Zealand, “the fifth Maori
King, born 1912, son of Te Rata Mahuta,
fourth Maori King; educated at Huntly
school; hereditary high chief of Waikato
and allied tribes, also paramount chief of
Ngati-Mahuta of Waikato,” Approxi-
mately 20,000 Maoris, some from Tara-
naki and elsewhere, recognise him as their
leader. He is the lineal descendant of
Potatau te Wherowhero, whom the
Maoris, seeing that they would lose their
lands if they did not unite under one king
and one flag, set up as king in the time of
Governor Gore-Brown and under whose
nominal leadership they fought the Wai-
kato War in Sir George Grey’s time. The
movement came too late to succeed, and
the Maoris anyhow were never in agree-
ment about it, some preferring to live at
peace with the pakeha, all jealous of their
tribal independence; but it has remained
a strong political force, and Koroki is
certainly no “self-styled” king.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Eve”: Post-Christmas dialogue be-
tween me and a six-year-old lad on the
front step of his house nursing a very
small kitten. “What a lovely little kitten!
Did that come from Santa Claus?” “Hell,
no,” he barked, “I’d say the tomcat done
it!”
*X* ❖
“Bannon”: Every self - respecting
Digger knows well that artillery-units do
not carry colors or standards. The gun,
with the Royal cipher engraved upon the
barrel, is the gunners’ equivalent of the
colors carried by the P. 8.1. and others.
Yet during the Royal visit to Sydney, Ist
Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artil-
lery, now stationed at Suakim Barracks,
Mosman, will provide her Majesty with a
guard-of-honor 100-strong, which will in-
clude a color-party! Tile explanation of
this rank heresy goes Back to the turn
of the century. After we South African
campaign King Edward VII, in recogni-
tion of the services rendered by the Aus-
tralian Artillery, presented a “color” to
the R.A.A. Known as the King’s Banner,
it is not a unit-banner, but one held in
custody by Ist Field Regiment on behalf
of the R.A.A. .“A” Field Battery took
part in the campaign, and it is fitting
that today the battery forms part of the
custodian unit, Ist Field Regiment. The
King’s Banner is paraded by the regiment
on all ceremonial occasions when the
guard-of-honor is over 50-strong.
♦♦♦ ❖
“S.”: I must say I liked the poetic bit
in “S. M. Herald” about the Queen on
holiday at Lake Rotoiti, where “there is
no smell of sulphur. Instead there is the
sweet, tangy smell of pennyroyal and the
scent of hydrangeas.” Hydrangeas norm-
ally have no perceptible scent; but I am
pleased to think they evolved one for the
occasion.
* ❖ ♦
“Becks”: I’m not sure whether the
American oil-man who was recently hit
by a meteorite was lucky or unlucky.
The fact that he was wearing a tin-hat
prompts the use of the first adjective,
but as tin-hats are customary wear for
men working on drilling-rigs he would
have had only himself to blame had he
left it off. The unluckiness comes from
the thought that after whizzing through
untold millions of miles of space for an
unknown but probably immense period
"I don't suppose the Queen will even notice it!”
of time the lump of metal should have
chosen his head (or helmet) to fall on.
It has been estimated that up to 20
million meteors enter the earth’s atmos-
phere every day, but probably not more
than one of them survives to reach the
earth as a meteorite. Considering that
four-fifths of the globe is covered by
ocean and a large part of the remainder
by deserts, ice-cap, jungle and other unin-
habited parts and that even in the regions
wherein the earth’s 3000 million people
dwell most of it at any given moment is
not being stood-upon by a human biped,
the odds against any person being hit
are rather long. The Encyclopedia
Britannica records no authenticated in-
stance of a person being hit by a meteor-
ite, but mentions one which fell within
10 yards of a man in Yorkshire in 1797
and another which struck within 3 yards
of a workman at Ashdon (Essex) on
March 9, 1923. So apparently the oil-
man was unlucky to be singled out by
Fate, but lucky to be alive to tell the tale.
* ❖ *
“Lao-dah”: One of life’s quaint con-
trasts. The wife of the proprietor of a
Little Bourke-street cafe, a rendezvous
for the food-connoisseurs of Melbourne,
came into the cafe with several children,
opened a big bag and sat down to a
dozen pies, a hamburger and one of those
twirly buns with the jam running out of it,
♦5 * ❖
“Card”: Other days, othef ways . . .
Part of the decorations facing the rail-
way-station at Waipu (N.Z.) for the
Queen’s visit included a patriotic display
of family-washing, lined in a series of red,
white and blue articles. Would never have
done for 1917. In that year we were
standing on the platform of a small Ken-
tish station waiting for the London train.
Suddenly the stationmaster ushered us in
a flurry into the waiting-room —the Royal
train, carrying George V to Dover en
route to France, was due through. The
s.m. told us he had strict instructions
that all platforms were to be cleared, as
well as the clothes-lines of s.m.’s resi-
dences, His wife was frantically com-
plying with regs. when the Royal train
dashed through. As it was doing about
60, it was unlikely that the Royal eyes
would have spotted the family smalls,
even had they been out and all-a-blowing.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Chevroford”: A Warrnambool (Vic.)
man had a visit from Father Christmas
on that gentleman’s day when he bought
a 1934 car from a second-hand dealer.
Rummaging round the dashboard he
found a secret panel behind the glove-
box and a tin containing £5OO. Authority
says that the money is his if he can’t find
the owner. It appears that the Duke of
Gloucester drove the car when he was
touring the country in 1934. H.H. was
more interested in horses than in
addresses of welcome ; he may have kept
a fund handy to bribe country mayors
into attacks of laryngitis when he visited
their towns.
*Z* *t* $
“Cauboy”: Wirth’s Olympia, destroyed
by fire during the Christmas season, was
the centre of Melbourne’s circusland for
more than 30 years. It was a huge ram-
shackle wooden building more or less in
the shape of the big-top, and a week
before the blaze an authority declared
it the worst fire-risk in the city. The fire
was prevented from being a holocaust be-
cause the main part of the Wirth show
was at Moe, and only a skeleton-staff and
a few dogs and monkeys were in the
building for a Christmas panto. Half-
a-dozen monkeys were immolated, and
a Great Dane, Miss Eileen Wirth’s pet,
fled back in terror from the firemen’s hoses
and perished in the £70,000 inferno. The
show goes on, however. The next day the
indomitable Miss Wirth was organising
her panto, in another place and talking
of building an absolutely modern circus
on the old site. The State Government
will have something to say about that,
Olympia is to be the site of a great cul-
tural and fine-arts’ centre in the dim and
distant future.
NO GUARANTEE ON GUFF
“A leading French astrologer says that a
couple who might seem perfectly suited accord-
ing to their horoscopes might never be happy
in real life. Others with unfavorable horoscopes
might experience the ‘inebriating’ love of a
lifetime.”
If Taurus born under.
Beware / Make no blunder
When signs make it clear it’s your grey
day.
Astrologers warn you:
A wild bull might horn you.
Or you may be murdered on pay-
day;
Be squashed by bulldozer —
Such things are, you know, sir.
Pronounced with authority real.
But pedlars of hooey
Can’t get within cooee
Of bull’s-eye on things hymeneal.
This very well could be:
A couple who SHOULD be
Twin souls with the strongest
attractions,
{Being both under Aries )
Won’t believe in the fairies
But fight worse than two “Labor"
factions.
Often, wed Sagittarians
Act like barbarians ,
Whilst Leos become disaffected,
Heave things at each other
Or rush home to Mother,
When cycles are “badly aspected.”
Astrologers never
{Though hard they endeavor )
Can horoscope-certainty capture,
And stars in their courses
Prove feeble as forces
To influence marital rapture.
Heigh ho, then ! The lover
This truth may discover
When Eros’s heels he is hot on :
Just strike off the shackle
Of sign Zodiacal
And true love he’s free to get shot on.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
good
SPIRIT
otloncb
eWA RS T « NGTH
"HOSPITAL
BRANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dropped in on Melbourne, Captain
Edward George Spencer-Churchill, second-
cousin to Sir Winston and with and with-
out many of the P.M.’fc characteristics. At
78 he is as thin and active as his distin-
guished relative is active and stout, and
he plays squash with all the vim and
vigor that the other brings to a vast
problem of administration. He collects
but doesn’t paint pictures, and has one
of the largest private galleries in England
at his big property, Northwick Park, 15
miles from Shakspeare’s birthplace. Dur-
the war he gave many Dominion service-
men a hearty reception there. The biggest
lender of pictures in England (apart from
the Royal family), he’s on a world tour
to renew war-time friendships.
• •
Dr. Hans Dietrich, of the German
Legation in Wellington (N.Z.), was
gunnery-officer of the Graf Spec when
the British terriers —one of them the
Enzed cruiser Achilles —got on to her.
Speaking to a couple of hundred men
who took part in the battle, the erstwhile
gunnery-jack came up with the interesting
“other-side” info, that Graf Spec was
surprised that Achilles displayed her
ensign so prominently, “It proved of
the greatest benefit to our range-finders
and batteries. I’ve never ceased to
wonder why she did not receive more
hits.” Occasion of the meeting was Diet-
rich’s admission as a member of the
River Plate Veterans’ Association —the
first German in New Zealand to get in.
• •
Dubbed;
K.8.E.: Air-Marshal Richard Williams, born
in Oswald Pryor’s Moonta (S.A.), began work
in a bank and went on to become the
R.A.A.F.’s first commander, the first Austra-
lian to become an air-marshal, the only Aus-
tralian to graduate at the Army and Air Staff
Colleges and the Imperial Service College, the
only Australian to command an R.A.F. wing
in the field in War I. In addition, he’s the
holder of No. 1 air-licence. Early in War II
Williams directed Britain’s Coastal, Command,
and in 1946 left the service he’d served since
1914 to become Director-General of Civil
Aviation.
KNIGHTS BACHELOR: William John
Allison, who at 45, in 1951, took over the
presidency of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce from A. E. Heath. Began in the
approved manner—office-boy with Permewan
Wright, Ltd., at 11-bob-a-week; at 20 was
head-office accountant (night-school helped)
and in good time reached the g.-m.’s chair.
One of his out-of-office jobs is president of the
Uncle Bob’s Club, whose members have put
in their bobs to the tune (since 1942) of more
than £35,000 for the kids’ section of Mel-
bourne’s Orthopedic Hospital.
Daniel McVey, Director-General of Posts
and Telegraphs in 1939, One of his War II
titles was Director of War Organisation of
Industry and Chief Executive Officer of the
Production Executive of Cabinet —a mouthful
which gave him a loud chuckle whenever
mentioned. Sometime farmer, shearer and
drover, he joined the P.M.G. in Brisbane a
short time before joining the Ist A.I.F. Came
home from the war on crutches, a result of
playing Rugby against a team of poilus.
Walter Thomas Merriman, stud-merino
breeder of N.S.W. President, chairman or
director of various activities —from the district
hospital and literary institute to the picnic-race
club and bushfire brigade—in Yass. At 71 he
still runs one of Australia’s leading sheep-
stations.
Lawrence James Wackett, who followed up
his schooling at Townsville Grammar with a
year at Duntroon (one of the first students),
a course at Melbourne University (B.Sc.), and
D.F.C. with the A.F.C. in France, where he
was one of the first fighter-pilots. After War I
he set himself to designing flyers in Australia.
In 1937 he became the first employee of the
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation’s huge
set-up at Fishermen’s Bend. Now manages it.
A distinguished aeronautical designer, he’s
written two books on trout-fishing. -
Harry Wyatt Wunderly, the Commonwealth
Health Department’s Director of Tuberculosis.
M.D. of Melbourne University, lieut.-col. of
the 2nd A.1.F., recognised as an outstanding
authority on T. 8., he has, through benefac-
tions to the R.A.C.P., enabled medical gradu-
ates to gain the benefit of overseas training in
diseases of the chest.
Richard Harris, a busy Taswegian, Lud Mayor
of Hobart, Coroner and Territorial Justice for
the island, president of the Aero Club of
southern Tasmania, and hard worker for Red
Cross.
Brian Herbert Swift, gynaecologist, M.D. of
Cambridge, M.C. of War I, and, in 1924, golf-
champion of South Australia. For long a lec-
turer at Adelaide University, he is son of
Dr. H. Swift, noted for his investigation of
pink-disease, later known also as Swift’s
disease.
Australia has just had a Royal visitor
who received little publicity—his Serene
Highness Prince Ferdinand, cousin of
the ruler of Liechtenstein, the tiny in-
dependent principality between Austria
and Switzerland. A tall, smiling athlete,
he captained the Austrian running team
at the Olympic Games in 1932. Three
years before that, he and an English
companion made the first trip by motor-
car from Mombasa to Cairo. The
journey took three months, with stops
for big-game shooting. While in Aus-
tralia, the Prince and his American-bom
wife inspected the Great Barrier Reef,
Alice Springs and cattle-stations in the
Territory. They’ll have a look at New
Zealand and Fiji on the way home to
their ranch in Wyoming (U.S.).
• •
Appointed head of the Australian Joint
Services Staff in Washington in 1952, now
brought back as head of R.A.A.F. Home
Command, Air-Vice-Marshal Allan Leslie
Walters soldiered before he flew. Gradu-
ating from Duntroon to the staff corps in
1937, he transferred to flying three years
later. He had No. 72 Wing Headquarters
in Dutch New Guinea in War 11, and
shot down a Jap visitor over Darwin —
one of the most senior R.A.A.F. officers
to make an operational bag.
• •
R. V. Kay, who joined the Land and
Survey Department in New Zealand as
assistant-solicitor and later chopped over
to the Maori Affairs Department, Auck-
land, has been appointed Judge of the
High Court and of the Native Land
Court of the Cook Islands, It’s not his
first contact with brown brother —in the
mid-’thirties he was Commissioner of the
High Court, Crown Solicitor and prose-
cutor in Samoa.
RICHARD AUSTEN BUTLER
Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer, caught
in monetary mood at the Finance Ministers’
Conference in Sydney.
Home in Perth after six years’ post-
graduate medical work in Britain, Dr.
Philip Goatcher brings with him a Fel-
lowship of the Royal College of Sur-
geons and an English bride who is also
a medico. He will take up an honor-
ary clinical appointment at the Royal
Perth Hospital. His father, Jim
Goatcher, a well-known Perth painter,
has held several one-man exhibitions.
Rating 6ft. and 14st,, David Felsman
returns to Queensland as manager for the
A.B.C. For the past year acting-manager
in Melbourne, before that in N.S.W. and
Tasmania, Felsman was with Queensland
Radio Service in the pioneering days when
it had studio and transmitter in the one
room in George-street. When the A.B.C.
took over in 1932, he became programme-
director. In these press-a-switch days
A.B.C. (Q.)
Felsman recalls with a grin the old pro-
gramme-directing times when he used to
produce and act in plays, produce variety
shows, sing a few songs, conduct com-
munity-singing concerts, and act generally
as a musical rouseabout. He’s a member
of the Victorian Wine and Food Society.
• •
In Melbourne to launch an Australian
offshoot of British Insulated Callender’s
Cables is Sir Alexander Roger, one of
the U.K.’s biggest indus-
trialists and a directing in-
fluence in 14 large organisa-
tions. He gets his unofficial
title of “Uncrowned King
of Portugal” from the fact
that it was his company
which many years ago was
responsible for installing
Portugal’s telecommunica-
tion-system. Scots - born,
he’s 76 but looks far
younger than his years.
• •
Lord Dunsany, that
author of delightful whimsy*,
has come up with some
more—and, like his books,
this latest is salted with
sound sense. Recently
elected president of the
British Authors’ Club, Dun-
sany, making his inaugural
speech, said “.... some
modern poetry includes
obscene lines. All I can
say is that if that’s poetry,
then there is plenty of it on
the walls of the public lava-
tories in England—and
quite as good,” Again,
“The new poets are bells of
lead. I prefer our old
chimes.” One-time Cold-
stream Guardsman, and
Byron Professor of English
Literature at Athens Uni-
versity, Dunsany has pro-
duced over 40 books, half-
a-dozen radio-plays, and, at
75, still lists his recreation as
a hunter of foxes and big
game.
Called it a day at last, Sir John
Kemp, who during War II must have
been about the busiest man in Queens-
land. His titles at that time included
director of the local C.C.C., Deputy-
Director of Allied Works, State Co-
ordinator-General of Public Works, Main
Roads Commissioner and chief executive-
officer of the Department of the Interior.
Kemp made a great job of the Birdum-
Alice Springs all-weather road, and
in 1942 received the Peter Nichol Russell
Memorial Medal (the Institute of En-
gineers’ highest honor) for lifetime ser-
vice to Australian engineering. The
Brisbane dock, aerodromes, ports, mili-
tary-camps, naval docks, wharves, oil-
tanks —the list is nigh endless—came
under him in the war years, when he
commanded 20,000 men and the spend-
ing of £2O million annually. His main
form of nerve-sustenance was an endless
chain of cigarettes.
• •
/Iso retired, after long service to the
post-office, radio and electronics, Sir
Harry Brown was one of the first mem-
bers of the Radio Research Board,
formed in 1927. He rendered equally
solid service to B.G.E. (chairman) and,
before that, the P.M.G. (D.-D. of Posts
and Telegraphs for 17 years). Born in
England, he came to Australia in 1923.
backed by 25 years’ experience with the
British post-office. War II found him
Commonwealth Co-ordinator-General of
Works —a big title for a big job. He was
also helpfully in at the start of civil
aviation in Australia, and no doubt has
taken with him, from its hooks in his
B.G.E. office, one of the props, of the
Southern Cross, shattered at one end
when Kingsford Smith and P. G. Taylor
were flying the first air-mail to New
Zealand in May, 1935, and bearing a
presentation plaque from Smithy him-
self.
• •
The Last Post has sounded in Adel-
aide for valiant Old Digger Philip Davey,
V.C. The Americans have a word for it
—“Above and beyond the call of duty.”
Davey’s citation reads:
While his platoon [at Merris, France] was
consolidating the enemy pushed a machine-
gun forward under cover of a hedge and
opened fire, inflicting heavy casualties.
Alone, Corporal Davey moved forward in
the face of a fierce, point-blank fire and
attacked the gun with hand-grenades,
putting half the crew out of action.
Having used all his grenades, he returned
to his trench, secured a further supply
and again attacked the gun, the crew of
which, had, in the meantime, been re-
inforced. He killed the crew, eight in all,
and captured the gun.
This very gallant N.C.O. then mounted
the gun in the new post and used it in
repelling a determined counter-attack dur-
ing which he was severely wounded. By
his determination Corporal Davey saved
the platoon from annihilation and made it
possible to consolidate and hold a position
of vital importance.
Two other V.C.’s of his 10th Battalion
attended the funeral —Brigadier A. S,
Blackburn and Sergeant R. In wood,
Davey was 57 at the end, which made
him 22 at the time of his cross.
• •
Into the Silence;
In Brisbane, at 81, Harry Fawcett Smith,
who joined the old Royal Bank of Queensland
at Croydon (N.Q.) just under 60 years ago.
Serving in most towns in the north of the
State, he saw the Royal change to the Bank
of Queensland and then to the National. He
finished up as accountant at the head-office of
the National in Brisbane. His wife was one
of the well-known Keoghs of North Queens-
land.
At Quilpie (Q.), at 69, Frank Joachim Tully,
grazier. His father took up Ray Station, at
Thylungra, in 1873, two years after the Duracks
settled in the district. Son Frank took ovei
Terachy Station in 1910; he has been buried
in the family cemetery there, alongside his
mother, father and five brothers. In 1916 he
was amateur welterweight champion of Queens-
land.
At Ballarat, at 85, Martin Kennedy, doyen
of Victorian journalists, and Australia’s oldest
Inky Wayfarer until his retirement four years
ago. He won the Gold Medal of the A.J.A
for his work as a foundation-member of the
Press Association, and later of the Ballarat
branch of the AJ.A.
In Dorset (Eng.), at 68, Admiral Sir Guy
Royle, First Naval Member of the Australian
Naval Board for almost the whole of War 11.
Earlier in command of carriers Glorious and
Ark Royal, he knew a lot about the Pacific,
having been Naval Attache in Tokyo 1924-27.
His nickname was “Ginger,” not only because
his hair was that color, but because, though
very quiet-spoken, he had a gingering effect
on his commands. He popularised trap-shoot-
ing among Australian naval gunners.
In Hobart, at 67, James Boa, a familiar
figure in bookselling circles in that city. A
Scot, he worked his passage to this country
over 40 years ago, leaving it only for service
with the 7th and 13th Field Ambulances at
Gallipoli and in France. An occasional
Bulletin contributor.


ADDITIVES


ABORIGINALITIES
■pORTY years ago I told an old-timer
A of the different blokes I had met who
had “reared” Griffo, worked with Dan
Kelly long after Glenrowan and saw
Fisher’s ghost and men who, in their
youth, had been in close contact with the
wild colonial boys. My acquaintance put
them down as flamin’ skites. He went on
to tell me at length of his close association
with them “Marston” boys I might have
read about in Robbery Under Arms.
When I ventured the opinion that the
actors in Boldrewood’s drama were fic-
tional he was indignant. Why, he knew
all the family, knocked about with Dick
and Jim, was a bit shook on one of the
girls, but was a bit “afeared” of the old
man. It was quite a treat to have an
authentic account of the early days, after
having been earbashed by those other
blowhards. —“H. Damn.”
♦♦* • •
“D.R.H.”: Most bushmen at some
time or other find an unusual snake they
can’t identify. For the preservation of
small ones pending identification by
experts, make a few longitudinal slits in
the belly to allow the methylated-spirits to
penetrate, and bung him into a jar full
of it. With big ones, only the first foot
of head- and tail-ends are required for
identification. That is why the head
should never be knocked about, for the
pattern of the headplates often gives the
clue to the species. Chop the tail off on
the body-side of the vent, because the
caudal scales have a diagnostic value.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Derwent”: An old Tasmanian institu-
tion that flourished in the ’twenties of last
century was the Derwent Whaling Club.
Ross’s Almanac of 1831 gives the names
of some of its members, among them
Captain James Kelly (who circum-
navigated Tasmania in a small boat in
1815-16), William Wilson and Walter
Angus Bethune. The club awarded a
prize of eight dollars to the first person
who gave information of a whale being
in the river. Profits of the club were
divided into seven shares, of which five
were held by the members, one went to
charitable purposes, and one to “the
native youth who displays the greatest
expertness as headsman.” The first
whale accounted for in the Derwent is
claimed to have been killed by Jorgen
Jorgensen; but Captain Ebor Bunker
had been round the coasts before that,
whale-hunting; and in 1806 William
Collins, first Harbormaster of the Der-
went, established the pioneer whaling-
station in Van Diemen’s Land at Try-
works Point, Ralph’s Bay, a mile or so
south-east of Hobart. Relics of the old
whaling days in Tasmania’s two
museums include some very fine speci-
mens of what is known as “Scrimshaw-
work” on whale-tusks, as well as an
extraordinary range of articles carved
from the tusks.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: In this
mechanised age the bush is losing its
colorful personalities. One I remember
in West Queensland was an Indian
Army captain who boundary-rode
his 30,000-acre drought-stricken
selection with military routine,
mounted on a groomed charger,
with polished saddlery. He lived in
a scrupulously clean two-roomed
hut miles from anywhere in a
bend of the river to which only
horse-pads led. Usually his only
visitors were the birds and kanga-
roos, which he tamed and for
which he would bake special
dampers. Every Sunday morning
he would ride over to us ; he’d stay
for dinner, talk animatedly all the
afternoon, and after tea depart,
driving a packhorse loaded with
mails and stores. Of the wild ’roos
he used to feed, he would say,
“The blighters are getting too
damned familiar altogether.” One
Sunday while he was away the
’roos, “entirely without orders,”
sneaked into the kitchen, where-
upon an enraged sheep-dog slipped
his collar and had a “real how-do-
you-do” with the animals inside.
After kicking over everything they
could, including his silver-handled
shaving-brush—“A polo trophy,
bai Jove!” the “thoughtless
blighters” made their exit through
the glass windows. “And, what is
more, the brutes next day came up
to me as usual for potato-peelings!
I tell you, old boy, these damned kan-
garoos you have in Australia have more
cheek than the working-class!”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Old-timer”; One spring we had an
abnormal rush of blown sheep and the
boss put on a couple of extra hands to
help. Monty, the elder, was the primest
example we’d ever struck of a man who
had absorbed that hard-to-kill union
belief that not an inch more must be
given the boss than could be helped, and
the less you did the longer the job lasted.
Monty never hit the yards till right on
the tick of 7.30 a.m. (starting-time in
those days), though others knew that
the sooner you got at the struck sheep
the less damage they suffered; he
stopped instantly at noon, wouldn’t lift
a finger till 1 o’clock, and so on. On his
fourth day, when we’d just about had
his poling, we’d knocked-off, cleaned-up,
and were sitting outside the hut when
Little Curl suddenly whipped off his hat
and flattened three emerald-green flies.
“Whatinell y’ think y’ doin’!” Monty
“Any luck ?”
roared. “Without them flies blokes like
me wouldn’t have a job!”
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bass”: Don’t know that the mar-
supials did miss that “higher rung of
the evolutionary ladder” at which “Nar-
rin” claims they grabbed (B. 23/12/’53).
Admittedly, as a class they’re in some
ways more primitive than the higher
mammals—bulk for bulk their brains
are relatively smaller —but they de-
veloped certain anatomical specialisa-
tions which are anything but primitive.
In fact, the more primitive a species of
"I've found that proverbial needle , 'Erbert."
marsupial is, the more nearly it re-
sembles the higher mammals, indicating
a common stock from which marsupials
and other mammals simply took differ-
ent branches. Somewhat similarly, mam-
mals and birds are simply divergent
branches of the reptilian kingdom,)birds
having developed from the most typical
reptiles, the mammals from a different
branch. “N.” says it’s the lack of a
placenta, rather than the peculiar dis-
position of the kidney and genital ducts,
which causes the young of marsupials to
be born in an immature state. But that
lack of a placenta is a natural outcome
of the anatomical arrangement which
causes the kidney ducts to pass between
the genital ducts, instead of being placed
on either side of them as in the higher
mammals. That arrangement isn’t primi-
tive, and it certainly works well for the
marsupials.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Meaning of Jondaryan
(B. 9/12/’53)? Simple, really—the first
cow-cocky in the district was a Chinese.
There is an example here for radio-
announcers, for, though the spelling has
changed, the pronunciation hasn’t. Just
call it, “John dairyin’,” and you’ll be
O.K.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Mudlarks mate for
life and occupy the same territory each
year in the breeding-season. In fact, after
mating- their whole life seems to be a dual
effort. Both help to build the nest, they
take turns at incubating, both feed and
train the young. They even sing together,
synchronising so perfectly that, listening
to their “pee-wee, pee-wit,” it’s hard to
realise, at first, that “pee-wee” and “pee-
wit” are separate calls, one uttered by each
bird. They’ve reared their young now—
probably two broods each —and once
again they’re gathering in flocks. But
apparently some which nested here still
resent invasion of their territory. The
other morning about 50 were grouped on
the lawn around a pair which were fight-
ing. Three others were acting as referees,
and they intervened on several occasions
when there were, apparently, infringe-
ments of the rules. Stoush consisted of
grabbing the opponent and holding him—
they were cocks —at long leg’s-length
while trying to belabor him with wings.
I didn’t see any attempts to use the beak,
and since both had the same idea prob-
ably neither got hurt. Still, it was tiring,
and after about ten minutes both lay on
their sides, each with a grip on the other’s
body-feathers and weakly striking an
occasional ineffectual wing-blow. The
refs, were plainly perturbed, but appar-
ently this was allowed, because they
simply hopped around the contestants
urging them to break. Then I walked out
into the open and the flock took off, the
fighters showing no sign of fatigue as
they flew.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“E.8.C.”: An itinerant piano-tuner, he
was weatherbound on our far-west
Queensland station, and in return for hos-
pitality received, offered to give a one-
man entertainment. He could tell a good
yarn, sing a comic song, and do some
juggling. The manager assembled all
hands to see the show, and the blacks were
greatly impressed, but when he wound up
a series of magician’s tricks by apparently
swallowing three eggs and bringing up
six their astonishment knew no bounds.
Next day, wandering around the home-
stead, he found a nest of eggs, put them
in his hat and took them to the kitchen.
The only occupant, an old gin, refused
to touch them. “No wantem, boss,” she
said. “Cook no usem eggs come longa
your belly.”
* * * #
“Willpar”; My unit was camped in
a coconut-plantation on the edge of a
swamp. Being Sunday I drove myself
to Mass in the unit’s “blitz-buggy.” On
my return one of the boys drew my atten-
tion to something dangling under the
engine. I went down, poked my head
under, then recoiled like a field-artillery
piece. Entwined about the axle was 12ft.
of very angry, highly-animated swamp-
python, Had it been on the road as I
was returning I must have seen it, so the
only conclusion is that the serpent had
crawled up under the bonnet during the
night and that I had taken it to church
—which would perhaps account for its
wrath.
COWRIE SHELL
I closed my eyes and sent my soul
Adventuring on an unknown shore;
I saw the blue Pacific roll,
I heard the deep Atlantic roar;
The endless wash of hyacinth waves
About the isles of Paradise,
The thunder in the steel-blue caves
And corridors of polar ice.
Sunlight on many a sheltered bay
Unloosed for me bright sheaves of light.
I watched the colors change all day,
The stars that swam the waves at night.
Great planets floated in the swell,
A Milky Way all white with spawn;
I saw the east lift like a shell
Disclosing the pure pearl of dawn.
Again, the heavens grew grim and greyed
Where angry clouds flew, swarm on swarm —
The deep-sea forests swooped and swayed
Before the under-water storm.
I plunged in dreams through emerald mist,
Deep, deeper still through halls of gold;
I felt on forehead and on wrist
The icy fires of the cold.
Between the thunder and the sigh
(Oblivion more than halfway crossed)
I heard the voice of reason cry,
“Have done, have done, or you are lost.
“Though mind and body here remain
Your soul will slip into the flood,
Floating forever with the rain-
bow dreams inherent in your blood.”
Farewell to that vast fairyland:
I am of earth —I must not dare
To hold the oceans in my hand.
Holding a sea-shell to my ear.
vie.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Relief from GOUT,
RHEUMATISM
and other conditions which cause pain, swelling
and inflammation of the joints and limbs
Don’t be mistaken. Scientific research shows that pain, swelling or inflammation of
the ioints and limbs, particularly the hands, elbows, knees and_ feet, are usually
the result of a ‘Gouty’ condition, and the only way to find relief is to correctly
treat the cause of this complaint. COLCHISONE is the only treatment of kind
treat tn 6 cause ox xiiio Ev/iujjiwiui/ • waaxkjvx* xd vmvyf v t , . ,
available in Australia; the only treatment containing Colchicum, Guiacol and Apium
in a balanced formula, prepared specifically for that purpose. COLCHISONE
. . . •»• ■ 1! .r £ ntnnllltwv 4 rvfl O TYII
in a. oaiancea iumiuia,
brings almost immediate relief from pain, reduces swelling inflammation
and brings back complete freedom of movement. Get COLCHIbOJNL
TODAY. There is NO substitute.
COLCHISONE
The pale blue GOUT & RHEUMATIC PILLS
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
Prices
17/6 Small Size
30/- Large Economy
If your chemist cannot supply, write to RICKARD MEDICAIj
PRODUCTS PTY. 1/TD., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
df
sd
I’VE seen old buggies used as road-
side stands for milk-cans, old soci-
ables and phaetons as playthings in
children’s parks, and old drays going for
10s. to break-up for firewood; and in
the N.S.W. Riverina old table-top
wagons bring up to £lO for use as sheep-
bridges across creeks and billabongs.
But the most novel use for old horse-
drawn carts I saw at Mansfield (Vic.)
recently. There a cattle-breeder on the
flats has them dotting every paddock so
that stock may scratch themselves on
them and so save his fences. —“Horse-
less H ”
♦ * * 9
“Bert the Carpenter”: The ancient
Egyptians evolved methods for setting-
out a building and keeping everything
in it level or plumb which are little
different today. Their plumb-bob was
almost the same as ours. They had no
spirit-levels; their substitute was a
wooden frame in the shape of an equi-
lateral triangle, accurate to a hair’s-
breadth. From its apex hung a plumb-
bob and in the centre of the base was a
fine saw-cut. When the line of the plumb-
bob was exactly over that groove, the
base of the frame was, of course, level.
Some years ago archaeologists were work-
ing on an Egyptian temple which had
been wrecked thousands of years ago by
“ Sam —have a look at my nut. I think I've got a tick."
invaders. There seemed little hope of
recovering the original layout of the
temple from the heap of rubble, but when
the footings were laid bare, somebody
noticed a faint red line. Close examina-
tion revealed the twist of a cord ; it was
the original setting-out line, made by
rubbing paint on a cord, stretching it
tautly, then picking up the centre and
releasing it, to leave a red mark. Thanks
to those original lines, the
plan of the building was re-
drawn. Today we use a
chalk-line in the same way.
The real engineers and archi-
tects of antiquity, however,
were the Greeks. They im-
proved on all the things
they acquired .from Egypt
and Babylonia. The archi-
tect who designed the
Pantheon knew that under
some conditions a straight
line in a building appears
curved to the eye of a be-
holder, so he corrected this
by giving many of the lines
a slight curve. The result
was a building which appears
to be perfect to the eye, yet
surveying instruments reveal
curves everywhere! I was
reminded of this when I saw
a farmer laying-out a hillside
for contour-ploughing. He
was doing it with a large
wooden frame with a plumb-
bob in the centre and one
leg of the triangle 2in.
longer than the other, to
give the correct fall to the
furrows. In reply to my
question he said that he
knew nothing of what had
been done in Egypt; he had “nutted out
this idea when that boy of mine smashed
the bubble in my spirit-level and I didn’t
want to lose, time by getting another
one.”
« ♦ * ♦
“W.J.W.”: The dusky moorhens have
brought out their second clutch for the
season and I’m wondering what’s hap-
pened to most of their young. These are
water-birds, very poor flyers; and,
although some observers claim they dive,
I’ve never seen them completely sub-
merged. As far as I know the adult birds
have no enemies, but if they had to
escape from one they’d presumably do
it by flopping across the surface of
the swamp in a mixture of flying and
paddling, getting speed from both wings
and feet. That’s good enough for a bird
that hasn’t an enemy. But lots of other
swamp demzensll eat a baby chick, no
matter what breed it is, and the young
moorhens must fall easy prey to the
harriers and water-rats. Can someone
explain, then, why the moorhen, which
lays eight or nine eggs m a clutch, doesnt
bother to hatch them all out. Out of
"Next time you'll bring your thermos, whether you like it or not!"
three nests I’ve been watching only 12
chicks were hatched. It seemed that the
adult birds left the nest after the first
three or four chicks hatched. That’s
reasonable, I suppose, because the chicks
take to the water within minutes of
hatching, and they have to be fed. The
parents feed them, apparently, on undi-
gested food, since there seems to be no
regurgitation. But after centuries of
experiment, you’d think the birds would
have evolved s&me way of ensuring that
all the eggs hatched together. Either
that, or they’d have saved themselves
a lot of trouble by laying only four eggs.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Fair Mac”: “I tell yez, the two
curses of mankind are civilisation and
agriculture,” Sid ranted.
“Take anything that grows ;
in its natural state it don’t
get diseases. Cultivate it, and
what happens? It grows
bigger and better fruit or
grain, but diseases start to
attack it. You beat them,
then new types develop and
the fight goes on. Same with
people; all the time they’re
runnin’ around primitivelike
they never get diseases. As
soon’s civilisation catches up
with ’em they start getting
complaints, and the com-
plaints keep getting more
highfalutin and complicated.
When I was a kid you never
heard of half the diseases
doctors reckon people have
today. Take appendicitis —
two out of three get their ap-
pendix lopped out these days.
But native races don’t get
them complaints” “Yair,
you’re right there,” drawled
the new bloke quietly. “A
blackfellow never gets appen-
dicitis.” “There y’ are!”
Sid exclaimed. “Just what I
was sayin’!” “No,” con-
tinued the new fellow, “a
blackfellow just gets a belly-
ache and dies.”
“Heresone”: That farewell to Arthur
Groom (B. 25/11/’53) erred in placing
Canungra in north Queensland. To
Arthur himself it was just an easy walk
from the N.S.W. border, but to ordinary
mortals those few miles of mountain and
ravine, clothed in dense rain-forest, might
well seem like a thousand. Groom was
more than just a bushman, though. An
intense lover of Australia, particularly
in her wilder and more primitive
moments, he was one of the founders or
the National Parks Association. His
particular interest was Binna Burra
Lodge, on the edge of Lamington National
Park, which he managed from its
foundation to his death. Typically, it
was no plush-lined tourist hotel, ana it
didn’t make much profit for its share-
holders, but it introduced many thous-
ands of Australians, inexpensively, to
the joys of bushwalking through some of
our finest mountain scenery. During the
war staff shortages became so acute that,
for a time. Groom was doing most or
the cooking himself. The Army came to
the rescue with the loan of two cooks so
that he could continue his lectures to the
troops at Canungra.
« ♦ * *
“Bellfield”: When old Wright died
open hostility blazed between Alec and
Joe when each claimed that Wright had
promised him exclusive trapping rights.
Wright’s son persuaded them to go into
partnership. The partners did well, each
running his own line, but pooling the
catch. Then Alec’s tally began to beat
Joe’s. For a week Alec held the lead,
then the position began to reverse.
Another week or two and Alec was on
top again. It continued even after the
storekeeper let on that both had been
buying more traps on the sly—each was
determined to hold the district record,
partnership or no partnership. Now, if
only that spirit was general, how national
production would jump.
• • * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: In St. Arnaud they
told us a man named O’Leary wanted
fencers. “Where’s he?” “Out at Gre
Gre.” So we got directions and presently
were talking to O’Leary. “Not me,” he
said, “it’s me brother, Ike. He’s at Gre
Gre North.” “How do we get there?”
He told us. But Ike said, “You got jt
mixed. It’s another Ike, a cousin, he’s
over at Gre Gre Central.” At G.G.C. we
located a long, stringy cove who con-
fessed to being the right Ike, but ex-
plained the fencing was on his brother-
in-law’s place, and if we wanted to see
him we’d have to go to Gre Gre Vil-
lage, There, after a sharp hunt, we
pinned the brother-in-law to the post-
office wall and interrogated him. “That’s
right,” he said, “only it’s on a place I’m
share-farming.” “Far from here?”
“Down at Bet Bet.” We released him
and went away and pondered and Mat
said, “No. Sure as blue hell there’ll be
Bet Bet North an’ Bet Bet South an’ —
no, let’s head for the Upper Murray. The
worst we can strike there is Boomoonoo-
moonoomah.”
GREEN STONES
Green stones, brighter than the cleai
And whirlpool flowing of the stream they fora:
Summer’s hollowed sunlight there
Hones them to mirror each flashing bird.
And the dragonfly throbs, a pulse on the water.
Beside their oval heads; then, winging
Black-arrow-pointed, rushes to shatter f
The greenstone glimmer of the willows
swinging.
Step onto the green stones,
But mind their butting, live repose.
Across their cool enchantment runs
The foil that every fisherman knows.
Who watches the crossing and bares his feet
Will find the touch of the green stones sweet.
QUEEN SLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


(?
(?
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England)
ENGLAND
FS
]
1 !
= r
N \\\ I / /
The "HAPPY MEDIUM"
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
By QANITAS "CONSTELLATION" to South
Africa via Cocos Is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Parle available en route.
consult
MMalyety's
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Business. Rollery. Etc.
STERLING AND SELF-HELP
The Finance Ministers’ Con-
ference in Sydney should em-
phasise in Australian minds the
need to consider again the
fundamental economic problems
of their own country, and then
to relate them to the problems
of the British Commonwealth.
It is all too easy to
blame members of the British
Commonwealth of Nations
other than ourselves for overall
sterling problems. No country
should blame another country
until it has made a full search
of its own economic and
political soul.
Australia lost great industrial
opportunities after the war
largely because of a political
(and popular) emphasis on con-
sumption rather than on pro-
duction. In most vital industries
—such as coalmining, steelmak-
ing, transport, stevedoring,
building and farming—the out-
put or effort per man per work-
ing-week fell below the 1938-39
average. When the 40-hour
week came into operation in
1948 it fell a great deal further.
This lower man-week output
coincided with a period of
higher “real” wages and
“fuller” employment. (There
were various “prosperity” load-
ings to the basic wage which
raised its buying-power even
during the period of general
price-inflation.) Higher real
wages and greater public spend-
ing-power created a demand
for consumer goods. And as
the wage-earners’ income in-
creased and taxation levied on
behalf of the Welfare State also
ballooned, the lot of the inves-
tor and “capitalist” became
almost one of corresponding
undernourishment. The con-
sumer set the pace, and tended
to use up resources and wear
out plant at a rate the investor
could not replace.
Since 1939 Australia has not
been creating very much capi-
tal, especially in its secondary
industries. The war period
(1939-45) made real capital-crea-
tion almost impossible, and since
then the 40-hour week, high
wages, “social security” and a
low general production-rate
have sent costs up and brought
aboilt a shrinkage in the surplus
of general production over con-
sumption. It was the surplus of
suitably - planned production
over consumption in pre-war
years which provided Australia
with most of its domestically-
created capital. This capital
went into both public and pri-
vate enterprises, and is visible
today, in N. S. Wales, at any
rate, in the many city buildings
of the 1925-1939 era, in the city
underground railway, in the
concrete and bitumen roads
radiating north, south and west,
and in numerous factories,
dams, power-plants, etc. (The
Sydney Harbor Bridge, inci-
dentally, was largely built with
borrowed British capital and
materials and Australian labor.)
Probably the best illustration
of what Australian-created capi-
tal can do is to be seen in almost
all the building and construc-
tion activity of the 1929-39
decade. During that time over-
seas capital was generally un-
obtainable, and we had to pay
our way almost entirely out of
our own resources—swapping
our exports for essential im-
ports, of course, but living (and
developing) almost entirely out
of our own income.
Of the capital that has been
created in Australia since 1945,
a large proportion has come
out of wool-export values.
Some years ago, after the
post-war spree, even Socialist
Prime Minister J. B. Chifley felt
“Gee, Kitty, I love you better than anything else
in th' world—bar mice.”
disposed to tell Australians;
“The honeymoon is over.” But
though, after a wool-boom and
a 40-hour week inflationary jag,
followed by a period of correc-
tive medicine courageously ad-
ministered by the Menzies-
Fadden Government, Aus-
tralians are starting to work
harder (some administrative sec-
tions are even overworked) the
general level of production is
still below what it needs to be.
For this some State Govern-
ments as well as A.L.P. policy
are largely to blame. State Gov-
ernments have sovereign powers
in regard to manpower, produc-
tion, distribution and transport,
and, especially in N. S. Wales
and Victoria, they have treated
their responsibilities very
lightly. Mr. Cahill in N. S.
Wales, and Mr. McGirr before
him, have regarded paper-
money as the sovereign remedy
for all economic ills. They ap-
pear to disregard the severe
truth that abundant paper-
money doesn’t produce abund-
ant production, but rather, when
issued without value received
in return, it provokes raging
inflation.
Governments themselves
directly create little or no capi-
tal, though wise government can
encourage the creation of capi-
tal by private enterprise. Gov-
ernments use a great deal of
capital by taking it from the
public in the form of loans and
taxes. Capital expenditure on
defence, though necessary, is
not reproductive, and is a bur-
den on a nation’s resources.
Britain has a heavy such burden
at the present time. Australia’s
defence outgo is not insignifi-
cant either.
Once all authorities. State
Governments included, and the
people get Australia doing a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay—and that may mean a re-
turn to a 44-hour week —there
are prospects of really extra-
ordinary progress and prosperity
ahead of Australia. And a
strong and efficient industrial
Australia would be a great help
to the sterling area.
In some Australian industries
twice the man-week output
could be achieved without hutt-
ing anyone. In others output
can be helped appreciably by
more diligent work coupled
with greater mechanisation
(which calls for capital outlay).
Once a reasonable output per
man, at a reasonable cost, is in
sight, it will be sound policy
even to extend credit for the
building of essential works that
promise to pay for themselves,
especially through exporting por-
tion of their output.
Capital expenditure in the
future must aim at helping pro-
duction to flow more easily;
where projects are badly
planned or left unfinished they
become a burden and a drain on
our resources.
It may seem odd to prescribe
greater production as the cure
for a threatened falling-off in
overseas trade. But greater,
lower-cost output, overall, is the
answer. All sorts of capital
assets are needed by Australia
and by the British Common-
wealth. Given enough coal,
steel, bricks, cement, chemicals,
etc., at stable or reduced prices
there is almost endless work
waiting to be carried out in Aus-
tralia. Many kinds of facilities
for greater essential production,
for improved transport and for
home-ownership need attention.
And other British countries need
our raw materials —at the right
price.
Australia needs overseas
capital only for those materials
and machinery, etc., not available
in this country, and then only
to the extent that our export
surplus is inadequate to pay for
such imports.
Working as a rational and
willing community we will have
little difficulty in finding
finance, either from our own
resources or from abroad, for
anything that is within our
physical and industrial power to
complete, more especially if our
production is aimed at provid-
ing a surplus for overseas mar-
kets at a competitive price.
Thrifty, industrious people have
few economic problems which,
don’t solve themselves. Eco-
nomic restriction and regulation
are only needed so long as pro-
duction is inadequate and costly.
Not only does the British
Commonwealth want to earn
more dollars; it needs to in-
crease trade within the Empire,
so that British and Dominion
skill, labor and resources are
employed to their best advantage
and their fullest extent. By
this means —through the expan-
sion of intra-Empire trade and
industry—will Commonwealth
industry become strong and its
efficiency increased. Just as the
large U.S. domestic market
enables America to produce for
export at comparatively low
cost, so would an expanded
intra-Empire trade give British
Commonwealth manufacturers
and producers a competitive
edge in exporting to foreign
countries.
Western Australian Drilling
From L. Owen: The latest
report issued to the Press states
that No. 1 test-well on Rough
Range has reached a depth of
5417 ft. and that routine testing
produced salt water without even
a “color” of oil. At this depth
there is nothing particularly dis-
couraging in the event, and, as
the general-manager of Ampol
Petroleum, W. M. Leonard,
says, the salt-water occurrence
“is no indication of the presence
or absence of oil.”
There is, however, some sig-
nificance in the strike, as it in-
dicates the possibility that the
well, owing to hade [incline from
the vertical] in the axial
plane with depth, is now flank-
ing the sub-surface structure.
From the published report, it is
obvious that no heavy flow of
brine was struck. This is evi-
dence that regionally permeable
strata have not yet been pene-
trated. A report on the cores
taken from below 5000 ft. will be
of considerable interest, as their
study will help in confirming or
rejecting the suggestions as to
axial hade and permeability.
The current prospects for oil
at Rough Range appear to be
very similar to those in Western
Papua in 1951, prior to the strik-
ing of salt water, which flowed
at the rate of 500,000 gallons a
day from a depth of 9685 ft. in
the Wana well. In both cases
conditions favorable to the
genesis of petroleum have ex-
isted in the geological past.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
*8
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
' The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You 'will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
babrebe DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 3g), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
GUARD,
ds
PROTECTA
%
Suitable for every type ot bnslnes. It record*
all Sale*. Credit*. Payout* ele. Strongly bnllt.
pleasing la appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon Sr Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
/
\
I /LD
a
\r i\
Pi
e
te
»/
A/*
*
o
a
“You can Bank
on the ‘Wales’”
“Of course, I had a cheque account with the
Bank of New South Wales for many years
before I started in the manufacturing business
for myself, but it was only then that I realised
what a bank of that standing can do for the
small businessman. Their trade introduction
service has put me in a position to see bigger
things in the future than my present local
markets.”
The complete services of Australia’s largest
trading bank are readily available to all
“Wales” customers. Call and see the Manager
of your local branch, he will
be pleased to explain how
the “Wales” can help you.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5331C
mm
m
ii
mm
I
m
■ %
1
IV
mm
sn |f
m
m
mm
■IH
: ■
m :
m
ssasss
§m
HBg B
«
M S
IN "THE DULUX SHOW"
Jack Davey and his crazy followers Keith “Grandpa” Smith, George Foster
and Aileen Britton race from one hilarious adventure to another in the laugh-
filled “Dulux Show.” There are catchy songs, too, sung in the modern manner
by blonde Helen Lorraine and Ron McAnnally. Join them all every Wednesday
night at 8 p.m.
2GB - SAW -46 H - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PKx 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
jhe
MACQUARIE
CAS TI NG SERVICE
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Election New Year
New Year hopes, promises
and prospects in N.Z. are much
the same as a year ago, and
much the same clouds are there,
too, which shows that N.Z. is
just about holding its own in
the struggle to manage on its
fairly high average level of
prosperity. The year has opened
with the Government passing on
rising costs in higher charges for
national services, and business
can hardly be expected to dig
in its heels and take a stand
against costs when major services
like transport and the post and
telegraph are giving ground.
The latest round of rises was
started by the 10 p.c. lift in
wages, which the Arbitration
Court granted to bring wages
and salaries roughly in line with
the cost of living, and is there-
fore of the type that has be-
come familiar in N.Z., as in
Australia, for years past.
But for the difference in dates,
the whole set of problems is on
all-fours with that of ’5O, ’5l,
’52 or ’53, subject to allowances
for the wool boom and the im-
port boom, which brought bulges
over this period. The Govern-
ment has had plenty of time to
study the situation and to make
up its mind what measures are
most likely to bring a cure; yet
today the Government is talking
about examining the “state of
the nation” to decide what can
be done.
Priminister Holland, in his
New Year message, has repeated
once again his original pledge,
given in 1949, to put the country
on “as stable an economic keel
as possible,” and has said: “The
Government is fully aware that
the internal price-structure is the
major economic problem today.
Early in the new year it is pro-
posed to have conferences with
various organised sections of our
people in trade, farming, manu-
facturing, commerce, finance,
and also with economists, editors,
bankers and organisations of
workers and employers, to see
if we can separately or together
devise plans to deal effectively
with the over-all problem of
rising costs and prices—problems
that are common to all parts of
the world where prosperity is
experienced.”
If all these groups and experts
are called in and a great mass of
information is gathered to-
gether on the causes of the
present stress and strain, along
with sectional proposals as to
how things should be set right,
the Government will be further
from getting down to tin-tacks
than it is now, and it is simply
harboring vain hopes to expect
improvement by such methods.
Nor should it be necessary to go
into a mass of detail before
taking action. The basic causes
of the trouble are easy to see,
and the extent of the unbalance
is not beyond the powers of a
moderately able Government to
correct in a short time. The
whole of the difficulty arises
from the unwillingness of the
Government to take real anti-
inflationary action, and from
conflicting sectional interests,
which will never admit that such
action should be applied to them.
Take commerce. No one in
business wants a cut in the
money-supply, which would
strike at turnover, yet everyone
in business is crying out about
inflated overheads. Manufac-
turers are growling continually
about costs —mostly wages and
taxes —but want money to keep
flowing, with plenty of shelter
against outside rivals. Farmers
expect a rise in income every
time the wage-earners get one,
and dairymen have been lucky
in getting it under the guaranteed
price scheme for butter and
cheese; but this can go on only
so long as overseas markets can
stand it, which might not be
much longer. Workers in trade
and industry are mainly con-
cerned about the cost of living,
and employers about the cost of
production, without much appre-
ciation of each other’s viewpoint
or of the certainty that sooner
or later all costs fall on con-
sumers. Inside N.Z.'s controlled
economy there are still shortages,
mainly of manpower and mate-
rials for capital development, and
it’s elementary that costs and
prices will be high under such
conditions. Either construction
should be scaled down to ease
the pressure on costs or controls
should be lifted to sharpen the
edge of competition, preferably
the latter, and N.Z. should rein-
force its credit policy by allow-
ing interest-rates to find their
proper level.
As this is election year and
the Government shows no dis-
position to face up boldly to the
challenge, the signs point to
short-term expedients rather than
to long-term remedies, and N.Z.
will lose some of its competi-
tive advantages in oversea food
markets.
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.
For years a heavy seepage of
earnings from commercial
forestry enterprises in New Zea-
land into taxation channels has
been making things difficult for
concerns in this field, most of
all for the biggest of them,
N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd. ; but
there is now promise of a more
helpful attitude in official
quarters.
In the last few years F.P. has
graduated to become one of
N.Z.’s leading taxpayers,
although ordinary shareholders
haven’t had a div. yet —which
looks like legalised robbery by
the Tax Department —and the
chairman, David Henry, has
strongly denounced “penal taxa-
tion” of forestry cos. In the
role of leading champion for
these concerns in the fight for
equitable treatment, Henry ap-
pears to be at last getting a rea-
sonable hearing.
As Maoriland has had no
previous experience of costing
and taxing of forests grown for
cutting on the rotation system,
experts have been directed to
look into the practice in other
timber-producing countries. Re-
lief has been a matter of
urgency since F.P. entered the
export field, where it has had to
meet competition from con-
cerns less heavily taxed. The
time has now passed when the
co. could recover all extra costs
in the price of products sold.
That stage ended when it grew
too big to live under com-
pletely sheltered internal market
conditions. It began exporting
sawn timber, chiefly to Aus-
tralia, where it took a knock
in the past couple of years when
the market was overloaded. This
experience lent support to its
case for tax-revision, and gained
it a more attentive hearing.
Within N.Z., Forest Products
was faced lately with a potential
challenge from the new giant, the
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
but this has been forestalled by
a 10-year agreement signed a
few months ago, which gives
F.P. full run of the local mar-
ket for kraft pulp, paper and
building-board, together with
their ancillary local industries,
and provides for joint action
with the Tasman Co. in develop-
ing kraft-pulp trade abroad for
the general benefit of N.Z. Tas-
man will be interested in
newsprint and fine paper, along
with a limited output of kraft
paper, for the dual export drive.
This looks like a commonsense
and straightforward way of
avoiding cut-throat competition
and working as far as possible
for the common good. Between
them the two cos. will control
the use of nearly half a million
acres of pine forests, and on
present estimates the raw
material will be far more than
they can expect to digest, what-
ever the possibilities might be
ultimately.
Since F.P.’s pulp-and-paper
mills got into production in the
past half-year the co. has been
able to check-up on earlier
figures of forest requirements,
and David Henry says its mills
and plants will need only
50.000 acres of forest, cut on a
continuous rotation system, to
keep them going. This leaves
126.000 acres owned by the co.
which are surplus to its needs,
and it’s a case of “earnest re-
search” to find markets.
For N.Z.F.P., 1953 was the
final year of big capital outlay.
At March 31 debenture loans
stood at £3,863,033 (up
£1,938,000 for the year), and
the programme was then still in-
complete. Interest on this debt
is a cost-item before tax, F.P.’s
net revenue in 1952-53 was
£284,231, of which £214,057 was
from manufacturing and £70,174
from the forests. Here is the
trend for 10 years:
Net Revenue
(mfg. and Accumulated
March 31. forest). profits.
£ £
1944 . .. 25,034
1945 . .. 42,010 20,041
1946 . .. 45,109 60,844
1947 . .. 65,222 98,716
1948 . .. 87,243 184,834
1949 . .. 116,462 272,077
1950 . .. 137,750 388,539
1951 . .. 176,027 526,289
1952 . .. 275,038 702,316
1953 . .. 284,231 942,662
The div. on prefs., lifted to
5 p.c., after a modest start at
3i p.c. in 1952, takes £49,560.
What the market is asking now
SiUsTfta’T'm 1955.‘XX
total 5.2 million, and at £1
each make up the biggest wad
of capital of any N.Z. co. Pros-
pe C ts should be favorable when
profits are within reach of half
a million, less than double the
present figure, and could be im-
proved by tax-relief. Total
assets have passed the £ 12-
million mark, with the forests
standing at £5.5 million. Alto-
gether, it’s a huge concern,
potentially capable of making a
sizeable contribution to N.Z.
prosperity.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (Aus.), Ltd.
TT has been an interesting develop-
ment from which holders of the
privately-owned shares have reaped some
nice harvests during the post-war years ;
and the immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of net earnings,
as well as further expansion of the under-
taking when television arrives.
Formed in 1913, the co. took over the
Australian rights of the English Ma'rconi
co. and the rights of the Telefunken co.
held by Australian Wireless, Ltd., and
paid a run of divs. averaging 5 p.c. for
its first nine years. Then it got at logger-
heads with the Government over rights
and infringements thereof, and no divs.
were paid for the five years to 1927.
Meanwhile (in 1922) these and other
difficulties were resolved by the Govern-
ment acquiring a controlling (51 p.c.)
interest in the business, and the founda-
tions were laid for much of the success,
technical and otherwise, which was to
follow. After the Beam wireless service
was opened in 1927 the co. moved from
strength to strength. For the 19 years
to 1946 divs. averaged 9 p.c., followed
by an average of 11.4 p.c., plus other
benefits, for the seven years to the close
of last accounts.
Following sale of the telecommunica-
tions section to the Government in 1946
for £1,400,000 (cash), of which £1,120,828
was for goodwill, holders of the privately-
owned scrip received 575. 7d. per f.-p.
£1 share —11s. 6d. as a part return of
capital and the balance a cash bonus.
That left the co. with a paid capital of
£418,845 in Bs, 6d. shares and manufac-
turing and other assets, all of which have
been expanded and have turned in very
satisfactory profits since. Meanwhile
(Aug., 1951) the Government, for reasons
of policy, sold its holding of 853,956
f.-p. Bs. 6d. shares to the public at 455.
apiece.
To help finance growth since 1946,
those on the register subscribed £568,882
of fresh capital, which brought with it
£376,719 of share-premiums, and re-
ceived £125,205 (Is. 6d. per share) of
bonus scrip, thus lifting issued capital to
£1,112,932 (in 10s. shares), of which
£139,117, plus £32,270 of share-
premiums, is still to come on the 556,466
new 10s. shares issued at a premium of
2s. 6d. each in March, 1953.
Production falls under two broad
heads, namely, capital goods and con-
sumer goods. The first includes broad-
cast transmitters, radar, vehicular-
operated traffic-signals, marine- and
aerial-navigation instruments and com-
ponents for other manufacturers, etc., all
of which are largely the requirements of
Governments and operating bodies.
Main lines of consumer goods turned
out are broadcast-receivers and radio-
grams, new and improved models of
which are being constantly produced. In
addition the co. is interested in eight sub-
sidiary and associated undertakings,
operates eight broadcasting stations, pro-
vides technical services for others and
holds some 3000 patents covering radio,
radar and television.
Last term there was all-round im-
provement in production and sales, etc.
The growth in turnover (£4,261,322) was
£349,123. After allowing £93,128 (up
£2238) for depreciation and something
for taxation and other contingencies, net
earnings benefited by £35,587;
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1946.. 143,027 8 p.c. = 78,842 64,185 598,439
To reserves a/c goodwill telecom-
munications, £1,120,828 ..1,719,267
Reserves capitalised, £1,120,828.. 598,439
Intangibles disappear, £49,067 .. 647,506
Net surplus a/c tangibles, £60,676.. 708,182
1947.. 82,959 8 p.c. = 33,508 49,451 757,633
1948.. 90,578 12 „ „ 50,261 40,317 797,950
Share premiums, £96,624 .. .. 894,574
1949.. 98,885 12 p.c. = 50,261 48,624 943,198
Share premiums, £78,876 .. ..1,021,574
1960.. 128,115 Ilf p.c. = 66,776 61,339 1,082,913
Share premiums, £166,939 ..1,249,852
1951.. 149,938 Ilf p.c. = 73.036 76,902 1,326,754
1952.. 166,398 Ilf .. ~83,470 71,928 1,398,682
Reserves capitalised, £125,205 .. 1,273,477
Share premiums, £34,780 .. 1,308,257
1953.. 190,985 12i p.c. = 108,685 82,300 1,390,557
* After deducting intangibles, now £85,811.
Excludes depreciation reserve (now £1,045,584).
The £190,985 of profit was 21.9 p.c. on
average capital employed, compared with
21.9, 24.1, 22.5 and 21.6 p.c. back to
1949. So the lift in the div. from Ilf
p.e. to \2\ p.c. was a comfortable matter,
and can be taken as an indication that
the board is satisfied with the outlook.
The bonus-issue makes 12| p.c. worth
14.7 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
gift, while the share-premium reduces the
12i p.c. to 10 p.c. on the subsequent new
issue for cash.
Continued growth and an improved
financial position are the features of
balance-sheet figures;
_ 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £709,494 £709,494 £978,815
Depreciation reserve 956,411 1,045,684 1,126,116
Sundry creditors, etc. 1,185,786 1,513,194 1,828.126
Final div 45,213 48,691 66,950
Freeholds, etc.* .. 568,356 571,468 574,741
Plant, etc.* .. 957,981 1.022,572 1.161,182
Shares in other cos. 252,350 277,373 288,400
Stocks .. .. 1,543,198 2,062,950 1,847,729
Book debts ~ 879,133 756,139 982,209
Cash, etc 22,592 25,145 31,305
*At cost, subject to specific reserves (now
£1,126,116).
The fresh capital (£264,321) and share
premiums (£34,780), together with a re-
duction of £215,221 in stocks, enabled
£138,610 to be added to fixed assets,
£226,070 to book-debts and £185,068 to
be clipped off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc.
The Government has not yet decided
when and under what conditions tele-
vision is to be established ; and when a
decision is made it will be some time be-
fore a service can be put into opera-
tion. However, the management is con-
fident that entry into the new field will
have “a very marked effect upon the
co.’s sales.” As for commercial TV,
heavy costs are likely to make adequate
net returns difficult to win in the early
stages.
At 30s. 3d. the f.-p, 10s. shares return
4.1 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis, the 55.-paid contribs. at
21s. 6d. give an immediate yield of 2.9
p.c,, or 4.5 p.c. when fully paid—at the
moment there is no indication when the
other 6s. 3d. per share will be asked for.
Including uncalled capital, etc., net
tangible cover is 225. 9d. per share.
Bradford Cotton Mills, Ltd.
npHE market looks upon Bradford as
a steady 10 p.c. proposition, which
it has been for the last 14 years. The
price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which fluctu-
ated between 335. 3d. and 375. 6d. during
1953, stood at 365. last week, giving a
return of 5.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The 6 p.c. second prefs. at 225, yield
5.4 p.c. The well-protected 6 p.c. first
prefs. seldom appear on ’Change. Net
tangible cover is £4B 15s. 7d. seconds
and 335. lOd. ords.
There is £2,782,808 of capital to feed
in 60,000 6 p.c. first and 93,104 6 p.c.
second prefs. and 2,629,704 ords., and it
had the support and assistance of
£1,820,180 of reserves at June 30 last. On
capital and reserves combined, the pref.
divs. and 10 p.c. to the ords. together
call for 5.8 p.c., whereas last term’s profit
was equal to 7.9 p.c. So the pref. capital,
as well as £1,125,000 of mortgage money,
is earning more than its keep, and is
therefore helpful to the ords.
The Bradford group is the biggest
thing of its kind in Australia, with
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd., close on its
heels. It consists of 14 separate mill units
—seven in N. S. Wales and a like number
in Victoria —which are engaged collec-
tively in spinning raw cotton and weaving
the yarns into all kinds of cotton drills,
tweeds, denims, ducks and motor-tyre
cords, etc., which are then dyed and
otherwise finished.
The year to June 30 last began with
an accumulation of imported cotton
yarns and cotton piece-goods pressing
heavily upon output of the co.’s canvas,
duck and tyre-cord mills. However, the
alert management lost no time in switch-
ing to other forms of production from
which satisfactory profits were won,
namely rayon-spun yarns, substantial
quantities of which are still being turned
out. Chief customer for these yarns is
Burlington Mills (Aust), Ltd., which is
also a large buyer of Bradford’s cotton
yarns. For these and other reasons Brad-
ford welcomed the opportunity to buy
from American interests 233,000 of Burl-
ington’s f.-p. £1 ords. in exchange for
116,500 of its own f.-p. £1 ords., the cost
being approximately 10s. per share. Since
Burlington paid 6 p.c. last term, which is
thus worth 12 p.c. to Bradford, the deal
was a satisfactory one, financially and
otherwise.
And the economic barometer rose as
the year advanced. So, despite the pres-
sure from imports, Bradford’s turnover
increased in both volume and value. But
margins were narrow, and, after allow-
ing an extra £20,669 for taxation
(£140,669) and £6418 less for deprecia-
tion (£277,110), there was a slip of
£10,562 in the net result —an encourag-
ing performance, all things considered:,
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends. —>, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.f
1949.. 145.858 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 125,840 20,018 613,035
Share premiums, £84,729 .. .. 697,764
Removal exes., etc., £73,691 .. .. 624,073
Freeholds written up, £514,283 ..1,138,856
1950.. 187.018 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 173,565 13,453 1,151,809
Share premiums, £66,001 .. .. 1,217,810
Removal exes., etc., £58,884 .. 1,158,926
1951.. 368.424 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 186,144 182,280 1,341,206
Share premiums, £300,631 .. .. 1,641,837
Removal exes., etc., £38,268 ..1,603,569
1952.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 248,144 127,782 1,731,351
To staff fund. £5OOO 1,726,351
1953.. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 266,535 98,829 1,825,180
To staff fund, £5OOO 1,820,180
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles (£2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £1,461,330).
The £365,364 of profit was enough to
pay the pref, divs. (£9186) and show 13.8
p.c. on ord. capital as against 15.3, 14.6,
10.8, 11.7 and 12.6 p.c. back to 1948.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
were healthy, though there was little
change in the ratio of current liabilities
to liquid assets:
Consolidated Figures.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,920,192 £2,663,758 £2,782,808
Depreciation reserve 930,196 1,190,721 1,461,330
Outside interests.. 12,503 12,502 12,502
Mortgage loan .. 1,175,000 1,150,000 1,125,000
Creditors ~ 4,094,393 2,223,351 2,022,996
Staff fund .. 9,080 12,880 15,016
Tax reserve .. 115,051 146,018 190,667
Final divs. ~ 93,196 180,239 136,282
Freeholds .. 1,591,303 1,680,671 1,737,749
Leaseholds .. 61,152 78,226 124,858
Plant, etc. .. 3,602,985 3,890,566 4,202,021
Stock, etc. .. 3,546,603 2,724,975 2,448,264
Book debts .. 838,441 862,152 918,511
Cash, etc. .. 50,332 19,230 135,378
The additions to paid capital (up
£119,050) and cash, etc. (up £116,145),
which includes investments, were mainly
on account of the Burlington deal. The
year’s reduction of £276,711 in stocks,
together with surplus earnings and allow-
ances, enabled £225,355 to be clipped off
the amount coming to sundry creditors
and mortgages, £311,455 to be added to
plant, £103,710 to freeholds, etc., and
£56,359 to book-debts. The plant item
reflects completion of the new weaving
mill at Kotara (N.S.W.) and additions to
dyeing, bleaching and mercerising units.
Since the close of accounts both stocks
and the outside debt have been further
reduced, and mill outputs have increased.
Plants are modern and efficient, output
per man-hour has increased substantially
since 1949, and generally the manage-
ment is alive to its problems. Still,
owing to competition from lower wage-
cost overseas producers, the Tariff
Board is considering the question of
increased protection for local cotton-
spinners and -weavers.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
CORMED 44 years ago by Henry Jones
1 and A. W. Palfreyman, this big holding
co. stepped in where there was waste in
buying and selling, as well as overlapping
in organisation, and reduced the lot to a
minimum. The popularity of the scrip,
which is one of the “blue-chip” stocks in
the market, rests upon the pleasing per-
formances of the group as a profit-earner
and dividend-payer, and upon its strength,
financial and otherwise. Shareholders
have never failed to receive a div. Average
rate for the first 20 years was 10.8 p.c.
(sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip
in 1927), followed by an average of 7.5
p.c. for the next half-dozen slump years,
and then an average of a wink over 10
p.c. for the 18 years to the close of last
accounts. The £2,115,000 of share capital
was then entrenched behind £3,463,009 of
visible reserves.
The parent controls a chain of 17 major
jam-making and fruit-preserving factories,
and a number of auxiliary cos., scattered
throughout Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa. Owing to the high and
rising price of sugar, Australia is being
rapidly squeezed out of overseas markets
for jam. Exports, which totalled £65.2
million for 1949-50, fell to £19.9
million for 1951-52 and to £10.7
million for 1952-53. The effects
were partly offset by expanding local
consumption, which has averaged over 11
pounds p.a. per head of population, and
by a marked growth in both local and
overseas demand (it has recently exceeded
supply) for canned fruits, as well as by
results from the African factories, which
operate at much lower sugar- and wage-
costs.
Despite a 29 p.c. drop in Australian jam
production (76.7 million pounds) for the
year to June 30, 1953, the board was able
to show £206,543 more profit at a record
£549,430 last term:
Profit— 1950. 1951. 1952. 1963.
Australian .. £248,032 £231,418 £156,981 £264,700
ex-Australian 190,029 207,477 185,996 284,730
Total .. £438,061 £438,896 £342,977 £549,430
Moreover the increase in the Australian
figure (up £107,719) was greater than the
increase in the ex-Australian figure (up
£98,734). In both cases the growth
appears to be substantially due to heavy
reduction of conservatively-valued stocks.
The auditors of the S. African co. say:
Stocks... .have been valued at the same
prices as in previous years, namely, materi-
ally lower than either cost or replacement
value. As a result of the decrease in the
quantities of stock at August 31, 1953, the
profit for the year ended on that date
shown in the accounts exceeds the figure
that would have resulted had the opening
and closing stocks been approximately
equal.
And it can be taken for granted that the
board has followed the same conservative
policy in Australia, too. So the £549,430
of profit shown, which was equal to 26.9
p.c, on average capital as against 19, 24.3
and 21.9 p.c. for the three preceding
terms, cannot be taken as a reliable guide
to the level of net earnings for the current
term, or the years further ahead. Still,
there is nothing to suggest that the 10 p.c.
div. is in any danger.
Chairman A. W. Palfreyman says the
immediate outlook for Australian fruit-
canners is all that could be expected. He
also asks that the Government make
available to local jam-exporters sufficient
sugar “at a price equivalent to that at
which surplus Australian production is
sold overseas,” before it is too late to
recover our export jam markets.
Last year’s net reduction in stocks,
which still appear at cost or valuation
under cost, was £768,633:
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1.800,000 £1,800,000 £2,115,000
Outside interests .. 82,515 77,108 87,862
Suspense account 95,107 109,118
Creditors, etc. .. 1,111,180 1,754,544 875,891
Tax reserve, etc. .. 654,839 649,129 865,748
Final divs. .. 135,000 135,000 158,625
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,312,641 1,417,956 1,518,079
Plant, etc. .. 915,480 1,111,970 1,144,507
Stocks ~ .. 2,465,842 8,148,285 2,379,652
Debtors .. .. 1,625,422 1,665,081 1,755,086
Shares .. .. 213,660 231,058 278,341
Cash, etc 185,984 89,287 604,628
Suspense account 5,522
Together with £315,000 of fresh share
capital gathered in March, 1953, and the
year’s surplus earnings and allowances,
the board was able to reduce the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£878,653, add £132,660 to fixed assets,
carry an extra £90,005 of book-debts and
strengthen the holding of cash, etc., by
£565,341.
Prepared to wait for its benefits, the
market prices the f.-p. £1 shares at 495.,
giving an immediate return of 4.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 525. 9d.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
AT Marrickville (N.S.W.) the co.’s
principal works turn out drainage-
and sewerage-pipes, sanitary- and other
earthenware, as well as floor and other
tiles and insulators, etc. The factories
at Melbourne and Brisbane, and a
recently-established subsidiary at Ader
laide, concentrate mainly on sanitary-
ware and household-crockery. Another
subsidiary, R. Fowler Vianini, Ltd., has
been making concrete-pipes at Marrick-
ville since the 1920’5. With some 120
other local producers—their aggregate
plant-capacity is now in excess of
national demand —competing in the co.’s
markets, profit-margins are mostly nar-
row. That puts the emphasis on plant
efficiency and quality of output, mat-
ters to which the management has given
a lot of attention in recent years—some
of the co.’s products compare very
favorably with similar imported lines.
A couple of years ago £130,000 of
excess provision for depreciation was
tossed into free reserves, which also
benefited by £275,446 from a revalua-
tion of the book-value of freeholds.
These book adjustments, which do not
affect actual earning-power of the assets,
constitute nearly four-fifths of current
reserves (£525,449), which are 2} times
the size of paid capital. Any question
of an issue of bonus-scrip, however, can
be ruled out on the grounds of
imprudence at the moment. .
During the first half of the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts turnover
fell away, but picked up during the
second half, thanks to revival of activity
in both the building trade and sewerage
extensions by public authorities, and to
import restrictions. So after allowing
£25,954 (up £1785) for depreciation and
something for taxation, the board was
able to show £7BO more profit at
£22,529:
f Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1949.. 16,082 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 882 93,264
Sundry additions reserves, £7122 .. 100,386
1950.. 22,050 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 6850 107,236
Proceeds revalued assets, £275,446 .. 382,682
Excess depreciation prov’n, £130,000.. 512,682
10 p.c.
1951.. 28,473 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 9473 522,156
To tax reserves £8590 .. .. .. 513,565
Added reserves, £976 .. .. .. 514,541
1952.. 21,749 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 2749 517,290
Profit sale assets, £4630 .. .. 521,920
1953.. 22,529 4000 10 p.c. = 15,000 3529 526,449
Though the undisclosed provision for
taxation might have been wholly respon-
sible for the small improvement in net


DAVIES ’ & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
BUSINESS FOR SALE
Excellent city business invest-
ment. Established soft drink
factory. Good plant, stock,
established connections. £4,500.
W.1.W.0. 862 Canterbury Rd.,
Lakemba. Phone UL 3583.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vlce-Chaiman)
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
The "Curvilinear" Ore Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin &
Prices
jSaSp
Simple,
Reliable
and
Efficient
We are the Patentees and sole manufacturers of this renowned Table,
Classifiers, “Everlasting” Steam Blow-off valves, and “Abbot” Water
Filters. All classes of Tools, explosives and accessories supplied.
Sole Agents for George Ellison Limited, Birmingham, Electrical
Switchgear, etc., and Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd., Birmingham,
manufacturers of Magnetic Ore Separators and Magnetic Lifting
Equipment. .
Guthridge Pty. Limited
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Custom Credit
Corporation
Limited
STAFF APPOINTMENTS
The Chairman and Managing
Director of Custom Credit Cor-
poration Limited, Mr. lan Jacoby,
announces the following executive
appointments to the Company;
General Manager Mr. R. Paley
New South Wales Manager Mr. A. Trasey
Tasmanian Manager Mr. P. Maine
Queensland Manager Mr. A. Edwards
Victorian Manager Mr. R. Turner
South Australian Manager Mr. P. Ridings
Western Australian Manager Mr. E. Edwards
8.0.A.C. Takes Good Care of You
i Speedbird Services
link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA,
THAILAND, HONG KONG,
JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST,
AFRICA, EUROPE, GREAT
BRITAIN, U.S.A., CANADA,
CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA,
BERMUDA.
See your Travel Agent for complete
trip-planning help—no charge I
fIY BRITISH
dfs
fs
dfs
TO All SIX CONTINENTS
Wherever you fly it costs no more for 8.0.A.C. traditional
service and experience . . . for the unrivalled skill of
flying and ground staffs . . . friendly, courteous
attention . . . smooth efficiency. Speedbird
services link with 51 countries on all
6 continents —and you can travel on
one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird airliners are
fully pressurized for smooth
above-the-weather flying
Complimentary meals and meal-time
drinks. No tips. No extras.
8.0.A.C. LEADS WITH THE COMET!
FOR POST HASTE WITHOUT WASTE—USE OVERSEAS AIR MAIL
Reservations and information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
.. A42/AU
earnings, the figure suggests that
the co. got its full share of busi-
ness offering, and that a tight
hold was kept upon controllable
outgoings. The £22,529 was
equal to 11.8 p.Q. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) as
against 11.4, 14.9, 11.6, 8.4 and
9.6 p.c. back to 1948. The
£40,000 of pref. capital carries
a cumulative 7 p.c. and advances
with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate. The div. re-
mained at an all-round 10 p.c.,
and, subject to the effects of
overseas competition following
the easing of import restrictions,
seems likely to be repeated for
the current term. It is hoped,
the board says, that adequate
tariff protection will be granted
to compensate for higher labor
costs in Australia.
The revival of trade towards
the close of accounts shows up
in a growth of £17,222 in book-
debts :
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £190,000 £190,000
Creditors, etc.* .. 121,007 107,687
Due to subsid. .. 46,049 62,707
Final div. .. .. 11,400 11,400
Freehold, plant, etc. 522,620 512,633
Shares subsid. .. 60,658 60,658
Stocks .. .. 139,837 132,037
Book debts .. 93,115 110,337
Advance to subsid. 69,127 61,328
Cash, etc. .. .. 389 20,250
* Includes provision for taxation and
overdraft.
The amount coming to credi-
tors, etc., was reduced by
£13,320 and the holding of cash,
etc., was strengthened by
£19,861. There was an im-
provement of £18,146 in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£142,158).
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the undertaking by
pricing the f.-p. 12s. ords. at
245. 6d. (225. a year ago) to
return 4.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £l7 17s. 9d.
prefs. and 545. ords.
The Hunt for Oil
Discovery of off at Rough
Range, Exmouth Gulf (W.A.),
at the first bite into the ground
by West Australian Petroleum
Pty., Ltd., and the speculative
fever it engendered, have infused
fresh zest into the hunt for likely
oil-bearing areas throughout the
Commonwealth. However, be-
fore the Gulf area can be classed
as an oilfield of commercial im-
portance many more explor-
atory-bores will have to be sunk
to find out the extent and pro-
ductive capacity of the oil-bear-
ing formation.
As the flow from the first
and the other wells is put
to the test of time, the accumu-
lating evidence will confirm
or disillusion the high hopes now
entertained. Indications from
the first well (mean depth about
3613 ft.) are consistent with those
usually associated with the first
successful strike of an important
oil-bearing area. West Austra-
lian Petroleum is owned 80 p.c.
by California Texas Corp. and
20 p.c. by Ampol Exploration,
Ltd., in which Ampol Petroleum,
Ltd., holds 70 p.c. of the scrip
and the Australian public the
balance.
Frome Broken Hill Co. Pty.,
Ltd., formed in 1946 by Zinc
Corp. in association with the big
Anglo-Iranian and Vacuum cos.
to prospect for oil and natural
gas in Australia, is lifting its
capital to £1,000,000, and is to
resume the hunt. After investi-
gating the Bonaparte Gulf and
Desert Basin areas for oil and the
Lake Frome area for natural gas,
field work was suspended in
1948. Now there is talk of the
co, making an examination of
the country between Esperance
and the South Australian border
for oil.
Freney Kimberley Oil, N.L.,
has just raised fresh funds
(970,000 new 6s. shares were
issued in November last) in order
to continue its 30-odd-year-old
search for oil in a licensed area
of 5*50 square miles in the Fitz-
roy River basin.
A recently-formed group,
Cable’s Oil Syndicate, proposes
to launch a new co., Australian
Oil Exploration, N.L., with a
nominal capital of £5,000,000,
to prospect for oil between the
Westralian border and Spencer’s
Gulf, and over an area of about
100 square miles north of the
Woomera Rocket Range. Con-
cessions have also been applied
for covering islands west of Ex-
mouth Gulf, and Reid’s Dome,
about 200 miles north of Roma
(Q.). Several Adelaide gold-
mining cos. are said to be in-
terested. The co.’s geologist is
J. Ridgway.
In Queensland —where Shell
(Queensland) Development Pty.,
a subsidiary of the big Shell Oil
Co. (U.S.), spent over £1,000,000
in a fruitless search for pet-
roleum in the Rolleston area —
Associated Australian Oil Fields,
N.L., continues to test the oil-
and gas-sands of the old Roma
field without thus far striking a
commercial flow. The co. is an
amalgamation of the old Roma
Blocks, Roma North, Kalimna
and Australian Oil Development
interests. It has been talking of
trying its luck at Lakes Entrance
(Vic.) and in the N.T.
In New Guinea, where hopes
of striking petroleum in com-
mercial quantities still run high,
Australasian Petroleum Pty. and
Island Exploration Co. Pty. have
already spent about £13,000,000
in thorough aerial, geophysical
and geological surveys of a wide
area and in sinking seven deep
test-wells, with a combined depth
of about 61,000 ft, In September
last the Omati No. 1 well col-
lapsed after high-pressure gas
had been met with at 13,743 ft.,
and work has ceased until special
equipment to clear the hole
arrives from America in March
next. The capital of these two
operating concerns is held 45 p.c.
each by the Anglo-Iranian and
Vacuum Oil cos. and 10 p.c. by
Oil Search, Ltd.
The ill-fated Papuan Apinaipi
Co. now proposes to raise
£50,000 of fresh capital to
further survey its 75-square-miJe
permit in the Gulf Division of
New Guinea, where it wasted its
available funds in sinking two
abortive test-wells under Gov-
ernment direction in 1940-41.
The clumsily-named Enter-
prise of New Guinea Gold and
Petroleum Development, N.L., is
also endeavoring to raise £lO,OOO
to make the co. eligible for a
long-sought oil-prospecting per-
mit in the Sepik district, New
Guinea.
Such has been the luck of the
game.
Plant-deliveries and construc-
tion-work at Peko’s gold-copper
deposit at Tennant Creek are
well advanced, and the milling
and cyaniding of gold-bearing
ore are expected to begin at an
early date. There are 19,000 tons
of proved ore, averaging
16.5dwt., in the upper levels of
the mine, which is expected to
yield a profit of about £lOO,OOO
over a period of a couple of
years. The essentially gold-bear-
ing lode goes down to 210 ft.,
where it merges with a rich
oxidised-copper body in what
appears to be the top of a dome.
The shaft has been deepened
from 210 ft. to 300 ft., where
driving, etc., has exposed some
high-grade stuff, averaging
around 12dwt. gold and 14 p.c.
copper over good widths, and
diamond-drilling has indicated
that high-grade ore continues to
a depth of 400 ft. Not enough
work has yet been done to en-
able the exact tonnage and value
of ore between the 210 ft. and
300 ft. levels to be calculated.
To see the development pro-
gramme to completion, and pro-
vide for installation of plant to
treat copper ore, the board con-
siders another £350,000 will be
needed, and a new share-issue at
par is to be made at an early
date. Paid capital is now
£350,000 in f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares,
which the market prices at 7s. or
thereabouts. A year or so ago
the co. turned down an offer of
financial assistance from Can-
adian sources.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks have,
with their usual thoughtfulness, struck
a happy note in planning for the Queen’s
visit. The 1200 guests for the ball to
be given at Government House will be
young people. And why not? The
Vice-Regal couple have remembered that
the Monarch is still a young woman, and
that youth calls to youth.
☆ ☆ ☆
Just in case those invited to the Royal
Ball to be given by the Lord Mayor and
City Councillors may deem that “How
are you, Liz.?” is the correct greeting
when presented to her Majesty, each
guest will receive with his or her entree-
card directions on how to behave.
Strongly authoritative as our Civic
Fathers may be on such matters, perhaps
we may turn as a final arbiter to a little
book on etiquette published for the
Queen’s visit.
When presented to the Queen the cor-
rect procedure is to address her at first
as your Majesty,” then simply as
Ma am.’ The Duke of Edinburgh is
addressed as “your Royal Highness” and
subsequently “Sir.” Men-guests bow and
women curtsy before the Queen, then
shake hands before passing on to the
Duke, before whom they also bow and
curtsy.
And what shall you wear? Hats and
gloves should be worn at all daytime
affairs. Gloves need not be white and
should not be taken off before the wearer
is presented to the Queen or the Duke.
For a garden-party men may wear morn-
ing dress. Service uniform or a lounge-
suit, and the same ruling is applied to
race-meetings. Women will, of course,
prefer to wear frocks suitable for a
garden-party, but it is correct to wear
a suit highlighted with distinctive acces-
sories. Full evening-dress must be worn
at Royal Visit Balls —dinner-frocks or
ballerinas are out. Gloves must be worn,
and be long enough to cover the arms
above the elbows.
And here’s the low-down on the curtsy.
Commence with the feet together, weight
on left foot. Cross left foot behind back
f ight foot and, bending both knees,
commence to go down. The body should
be held erect, the back straight. Allow
left knee to move forward under right
thigh, until whole of weight is on right
foot. Head should not be lowered but
held erect. The body is now inclined for-
ward from the waist, and this position is
held until the erect position has been
regained. Coming up the weight will first
be on the right foot and then the left
Move right foot to the right and walk
away m the same direction. The arms
should hang naturally at the sides through-
out the curtsy.
* * *
An ivory brocade gown embossed with
small golden roses was worn by Barbara
Jane, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Bayston, of Hawthorn, when she
was married at St. John’s, Toorak, to
Dr. Hugh Malcolm, only son of Mr.
Kenneth Hadley, of Toorak, and Mrs
Beryl Hadley, of South Yarra. The
gown was full-skirted with a slight train
and the embroidered Limerick-lace veil
had been her mother’s. She carried a
bouquet of golden roses. Bridesmaids
were Fae Gerrand and Jill Bazeley, whose
frocks were of gold organza. They
carried frangipani. Best man was Dr,
Colin Officer and groomsman Dr. Denis
O’Brien. Reception was at the Dor-
chester.
* & *
When Dr. Madelaine Walters, one of
the holders of a British Memorial Fel-
lowship, was farewelled with three other
1953 Fellows, Dr. Peter Wildy, Mrs. B.
Davidson and Mr. Roy McCleery, at a
party given by the president of the’ Brit-
ish Memorial Fund, Sir Norman Mighell,
and his wife at their Toorak home,
she was presented by the Governor with
a wedding-cake—Dr. Walters will marry
when she returns to England. With the
Governor at the party was Lady Brooks,
who wore a filmy frock of rose-pink
sheer embroidered with white flowers,
and a wide-brimmed black straw hat.
Other guests at the party were Mrs.
Essington Lewis, Mrs. A. Isaacson, Mrs.
Gillam Hunt, Mrs. Gordon Coulter, the
Tom Carlyons and Mrs. A Finlay.
Of inter-State interest was the wedding,
celebrated at St. Ambrose’s Church,
Woodend, of Pamela Anne, younger
daughter of Lady Knox, of Woodend,
and the late Sir Errol Knox, to Brian
Joseph, youngest son of Mr. J. O’Connor,
of Mt. Gambier (S.A.), and the late
Mrs. O’Connor. The bride’s gown of
white Swiss cotton pique had a very full
skirt and the bodice featured an Eliza-
bethan collar. The century-old em-
broidered tulle veil, which had been lent
by a friend in England, was held in place
with a tiny pearl coronet, and she car-
ried a small bouquet of Christmas lilies.
The bride’s cousin, Rosamund O’Brien,
and six-year-old niece. Penny Steele, at-
tended the bride. Rosamund wore a
bouffant strapless gown and bolero of
shell-pink nylon over taffeta and a short
tulle veil held by a coronet of rosebuds ;
Penny’s dress was of blue Swiss cotton
trimmed with broderie Anglaise, and her
tulle veil was caught with a coronet of
mixed flowers. Tom Preece was best
man.
McKenzie’s Hotel, Woodend, was the
setting for a reception after the cere-
mony, and later guests went to the home
of the bride’s mother for a buffet-
luncheon.
* ☆ ☆
A “dinner ball” qt the Palais, St. Kilda,
on February 24 has been arranged by a
number of societies in honor of the Royal
visit. They are the Royal Empire Society,
the Victoria League, the Overseas League,
the Royal Society of St. George, the
Royal Caledonian Society, the Cambrian
Society, the Empire Youth Council and
the Council of the Empire Day Move-
ment. Applications for invitations,
which wifi be restricted, may be made
by members only to the secretary of each
society. Invitations will be allotted in
order of application.
Senator Ivy Wedgwood, who was
elected to the Senate in 1949, is secretary
of the Government Members’ committees
for Taxation and Housing. When away
from Canberra the Senator is Mrs. J. K.
Wedgwood, wife of a Melbourne busi-
nessman who is a member of the family
which make the world-renowned china.
Photo by Athol Shmith.
Bertha A. Johnstone, author of The
Stream of Years (this, her first novel, sold
out in a few weeks) and Christy-Ann, has
followed these up with The Tarnished
Gateway, which has for its central figure
Yoree, a beautiful girl of mixed blood
who, from a Government compound in
the N.T., plunges into war-time life in Syd-
ney, and, later, marrying a white Aus-
tralian, begins anew life of deception.
Bertha Johnstone has written with sym-
pathy and understanding.
☆ ☆ *
Pretty cotton frocks, simple shantungs
and cool silks topped with picture-hats
made the lawns at Caulfield glow with
color. But —such is the fickleness of our
weather —before the last race was run
women were almost blue with cold.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
chairman of the V.A.T.C., wore a black
faille frock patterned with tiny gold stars
and a wide-brimmed black straw hat
misted with tulle. Mrs. Kenneth Mc-
Lean’s powder-blue silk frock was scat-
tered with black stars, and her small
white straw hat had an undulating brim.
Of soft rose-pink sheer pin-spotted in
white was the frock Mrs. Eric Fowler
wore with a large white chip-straw hat.
Mrs. Harry Way had a navy hat to go
with her frock of powder-blue silk-pat-
terned in darker blue. Mrs. W. J.
Thomas chose a grey-and-white-spotted
silk frock and black hat.
Mrs. Osmond Smith’s grey faille frock
was striped with black, and her large hat
was of black faille. Mrs. Peter Watkins’s
black nylon frock was worn with a black
picture-hat, Mrs. P. J. Lennon wore a
wide-brimmed white straw hat with her
white-guipure-lace-trimmed natural-linen
frock.
SYDNEY
One would have thought that the
Christmas shopping would have emptied
Sydney’s pockets, but sale-time has
brought fresh crowds of shoppers to the
city and the bidding for goods at re-
duced prices, especially shoes, makes
one wonder where all the money comes
from. Some people seem to be buying
“three of those, half a dozen of these,
a couple of those over there” so freely
and rapidly that those with more modest
demands slink away abashed.
Dame Pattie Maie Menzies, wife of the
Prime Minister, who has received the
order of Dame Grand Cross of the
British Empire from the Queen at the
New Year, looks forward to a strenuous
social programme when her Majesty
visits Australia next month. Dame
Pattie has always been a vigorous worker
on hospital auxiliaries, and this, with her
example and encouragement to Austra-
lian women during the war years, has
won her this honor, the highest avail-
able to women in the British Empire.
Dame Pattie recently underwent an
operation and is at present convalescing at
the Prime Minister's Lodge, Canberra.
Photo by Lenare, London.
The social round, generally very dull
at this time of the year, was quite
brightened up by the reception tendered
by the conference of the Joint Empire
Societies to the delegates of the Empire
Finance Talks, The finance men, who
include such V.I.P.s as Mr. R. A. But-
ler, Chancellor of the British Exchequer,
and the Indian Finance Minister, Mr.
Shri Chintaman D, Deshmukh, who
represents a constituency of 365,000
people, were, unexpectedly to this Let-
ter at any rate, very genial, witty and
amusing. The presence of the Prime
Minister, Mr. R. G. Menzies, also did
something to make the general quality
of the conversation seem rather brighter
than usual, while the colorful clothes of
the Indian and Pakistani women against
the modern-exotic decor of the Hotel
Australia’s new Starlight Room set the
party off to a gayer pace than is usual.
Bits from the party:
Mrs. F. H. Berryman, present
with her husband, Lieut.-General Berry-
man, State Director of the Royal Tour,
said that she was busy getting her ward-
robe ready for the third time. “I haven’t
got quite so much freshness in making a
choice this time, as you can imagine,”
she added.
When Mr. and Mrs. Sam Kelsey,
English guests of Mr. and Mrs. Don
Service, told Mr. Menzies that the last
time they visited Australia two years ago
they had heard him speak, they said that
they always seemed to be coming to
Australia to hear him. “It must be a
very expensive hobby,” replied the
P.M.
When the Indian Finance Minister was
asked by a rather ga-ga cocktail-type
for a solution to private finance problems,
he said that he had a solution that while
very fine for him was no good at all
for her. “What do you do?” she asked.
wide-eyed. “I print notes,” he replied.
(Indian papers, please do not copy.)
ft ☆ ☆
The marriage of Judy Vickery, of
Talofa, Harefield, to Robert Osborne,
of Kilgowlah, Tarcutta, took place last
Saturday in the pretty little chapel of the
War Memorial Hospital, Waverley —a
chapel which had been built in memory
of the bride’s grandmother. White nylon
tulle with trails of guipure lace and a
swathed fichu neckline made the bride’s
dress, and her attendants were Mrs.
Michael Harvey, Mrs. Hugh McKay, Miss
Jill Whitfeld and Mrs. Bruce Dowling.
The bridegroom was attended by Jon
McGeoch, Bruce Dowling, Rodney Ken-
dall and George Osborne, Jnr. After the
ceremony the bride’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Redvers Vickery, received about
140 guests at Glen Ascham.
* ☆ ☆
Believing, with Mr. James Laver, the
eminent fashion expert, that fashions
become charming again after 70 years,
although they may have been thought
hideous 10 years after and utterly ridicu-
lous in 20, this Letter turned up The
Bulletin for the 1880’s and found some
interesting little items of fashion note.
One was that the latest novelty from
Paris was a square umbrella. What
made this curious was that 1953 Ameri-
can fashion magazines featured square
umbrellas as the latest novelties —some-
thing quite, quite different!
Another delightful note from 1881 is
that bathing-dresses were then being
made “in the form of full-ball costumes,
excepting only the train,” and one ball-
dress is described as being composed of
cream-colored satin, covered with
beautifully-painted bunches of apple-
blossom, gracefully draped over ver-
milion satin, profusely trimmed with
pearls, diamonds and magnificent lace.”
Whether a bathing-dress like this
would be thought “charming” at Bondi
today is questionable. Perhaps the
fashion experts are not always right!
However, another novelty that is men-
tioned could conceivably be brought up-
to-date without exciting ridicule. In
fact it might gain quite a bit of attention
during the Royal tour. It seems that in
1881 electric jewellery was one of the
new sensations. Little batteries fixed in
the hair or dress were made to communi-
cate with brooches, tiaras and similar
ornaments and, by lighting-up each jewel
with a tiny electric flame, a novel and
brilliant effect was obtained.
At that time social reporting took more
the form of hinting than anything, so
that it added the titillating qualities of
the puzzle to mundane gossip. This is an
example: “The marriage of a well-
known Woollahra belle (the adopted pet
of a celebrated M.L.C. and owner of
many stations) is arranged with a gentle-
man of poetical fame. She is down for
£30,000, so report says.”
References were also made to “the
influxion of four girls from Maoriland,
very charming by all reports. Fortun-
ately, three of them have gone on to
Melbourne.” Apparently competition
was keen in those days and the girls
didn’t mind admitting it.
ft ft ☆
Nothing shows up the difference be-
tween the amateur and the professional
actor so much as vaudeville and panto-
mime. The professional is giving out-
wards all the time, trying to infect the
audience with his own vitality (an ex-
hausting business it is, too); but the
amateur never seems to get over the
schoolroom idea that everyone on the
stage should have lots of fun and let the
audience take it or leave it. This is prob-
ably why he doesn’t bother much to enun-
ciate clearly to get his message across.
In the Metropolitan’s “Aladdin,” which
opened last Saturday, few of the lines
were audible, and none of them had
that punch and vigor necessary to vaude-
ville. In the matter of timing, also, the
cast showed its amateurishness. Lines
came but tardily upon their cue, and situa-
tions were prolonged away past their use-
fulness. The scenery, however, was gay
and effective, and the music and lyrics by
Eric Rasdall showed evidence of great
industry. It must be added, too, that the
few children in the audience were sent
into peals of laughter by the knockabout
comedy—laughter much different from
the boorish guffaws of a larrikin section
of the audience which was apparently
trying to disconcert someone on the stage.
☆ ft ft
Overheard on the ferry: “She hasn t
the faintest clue about being smart. For
instance, she’s still got that peke when
everyone knows that they’re put and
poodles are in!”


The
“WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd.. Sydney and
all States.
Position Wanted
Secretary/Valet cum Tutor
Englishman, 56, fit and active, lost
all mining interests Malaya, desires
job in above capacity outstation.
Public School, Flying Corps, France,
1917, South East Asia Command
1942-46.
BOX No. 383,
SINGAPORE
Divorce Notices
TO THOMAS BERT COLEMAN (Respon-
dent) late of Church Street Blackpool
England A Petition for Divorce has been
filed against you Upon an application
by letter to the District Registrar Dis-
trict Registry of the High Court Albion
Place Leeds England a copy of the Peti-
tion will be sent If within 90 days here-
after no application has been made nor
appearance entered the Court may hear
the Petition and pronounce judgment.—
J. H. LAWTON, District Registrar.
TO PAUL SCOTT PARRY (Respondent)
late of 15 Avenue Road Annerley Becken-
ham London Singapore Malaya and Aus-
tralian Military Forces A Petition for
Divorce has been filed against you Upon
an application by letter to The Registrar
Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand
London England a copy of the Petition
will be sent If within 90 days hereafter
no application has been made nor appear-
ance entered the Court may hear the
Petition and pronounce judgment. —B.
LONG, Registrar.
Public Notice
MCDONALD—WouId WILFRED FRANK
McDonald (aged 62 years), a son of
Ernest Frank McDonald and Elizabeth Ann
Kirkland, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, quoting Estate of Charles James
Kirkland.
USSI
WM
ess
GO
M
GUJ
m
Qutt/i&
£ncormJMiSt€t&e
Gordons
Stands SuffUMHA
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE TX
Tanqueray Gordon 6 Co. Ltd.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
The Kiwis
The New Zealand variety
team who call themselves the
Kiwis will give their last per-
formance next Saturday night at
His Majesty’s, Auckland, the
theatre in which they gave their
first performance eight years
ago.
The Kiwis were born as an
Army concert-party in the
Middle East more or less under
the instructions of General
Freyberg, and quite a few of
the originals are still with the
company. They were soldiers
as well as entertainers, and often
enough had to change very
smartly from the stage to the
more important business of war.
They took their shows as near
as possible to the front-line and
toured the Middle East from
the Turkish border across Africa
and over to Italy by way of
Malta.
When the original party re-
turned to New Zealand they
toured to raise money for
patriotic funds ; some of them
were eligible to stay in
Maoriland, and they formed
the nucleus of the post-war
company. After the war they
were joined by others as they
were demobbed and then began
their marathon run around Aus-
tralia and New Zealand during
which they have given heaven-
knows-how-many performances.
The troupe had planned to go
to England, but that venture
would have cost them £30,000
for a start, and Terry Vaughan,
the former leader of the show,
advised against the move after
checking the London set-up.
When the company splits up
some of its members are look-
ing for different jobs, some are
thinking over starting another
revue party and some are con-
sidering trying their chances on
the stage overseas.
C. Morris, the company’s con-
jurer and manager, said “We
cannot go on for ever. We feel
that it is better for the show to
end on a high note thamto keep
on touring until the thousands
of friends we have made on our
travels think that we are trading
on reputation. We started
almost eight years ago in His
Majesty’s Theatre, Auckland, so
we think it appropriate that
we should finish our company’s
career in this same theatre.”
G.B.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Quiet Weekend”
With this slight if amusing
Esther McCracken item, John
Sumner adds another to his
rather innocuous selection of
plays for presentation by his
Repertory Players at the Union
Theatre, University of Mel-
bourne. The story of the Royds
and their search for a “quiet”
life in their Throppleton cot-
tage has already been well-
enough told on the screen, and
it is well enough done at the
Union Theatre.
In fact, you couldn’t ask for
better acting than that provided
by Peter O’Shaughnessy, Carmel
Dunn, Myrtle Woods, Zoe Cald-
well, Alex Scott, Andree Navarre
and others, but it is light stuff
that makes about as much im-
pression on the palate as angels’-
food served with cream puffs.
Having got his team into such
good condition in such a short
time is no mean performance for
Mr. Sumner. Now that they have
demonstrated their ability he
might change their diet a trifle
and put them on to a bit of roast
beef.
* * >
The pantos are still running
in Sydney—“ Aladdin” at the
Tiv. and another version of the
same item at the Metropolitan,
and “Jack and the Beanstalk” at
the Capitol. The Tiv.’s evening
show, “Latin Quarter,” is still
set, but “South Pacific,” at the
Empire, and “Dial ‘M* for Mur-
der,” at the Royal, are both
due to fold-up in a fortnight.
“Call Me Madam” (Royal)
and “Hot Ice” (Empire) will fol-
low. Peter Scriven’s puppets
are on show twice daily at the
Royal, and the Independent at
North Sydney is still running its
revue, “Independently Yours ”
Artbursts
William Hunter
A unique spectacle ushered in
the 1954 art season in Melbourne
when William Hunter, with the
Athenaeum Gallery walls around
him covered with his oils, water-
colors, etchings, aquatints and
drawings, sat before an easel
with all the paraphernalia of the
artist beside him and showed
art-lovers and -students how it’s
done. If the idea catches on — 4
and ideas like that generally do
catch on—it may yet become
obligatory for every artist to let
the public in on his secrets —and
wouldn’t anybody like to know
by what process of sensation and
perception certain painters suc-
ceed in converting a beautifully-
proportioned female into a mass
of green or blue pigment shaped
like a whale or a boa-constrictor?
Mr. Hunter, however, belongs
to a more orthodox school of
painters and has sufficient tech-
nical skill in a variety of media
to be able to say what he wants
to say to the limits of his training
—he was a contemporary of
Arthur Streeton and Lionel Lind-
say—and sometimes he shows a
sensitivity that goes beyond them.
His “Williamstown Jetty” and
“Fishermen’s Bend” are delicate
souvenirs of both those places.
“Old Moorings” is another. His
carefully-etched “Peacock” is
reminiscent of Lionel Lindsay's,
and his picture of a sand-quarry
has a touch of Hilder, while his
“Bible Joe,” drifting along a Mel-
bourne byway, is reminiscent of
the old intellectual beachcomber
who used to argue theological
subjects with archbishops.
The blobs of paint in “Black
Gate” give back the vibrating
quality of real light when viewed
from a proper distance.
Talkies
“Go, Man, Go!”
This film, previewed at the
Regent, South Yarra, purports
to tell the story of the Harlem
Globetrotters, the team of lanky
negro, basketball players who
have been drawing crowds as
big as the Davis Cup roll-up and
giving them American ballyhoo
and negro relaxation and also
amazing basketball, despite
their clowning.
According to the film, Abe
Sapperstein, a basketball fanatic,
discovered these obscure
geniuses of the game in all sorts
of out-of-the-way places, loaded
them into a jalopy and toured
the country, giving perform-
ances in barns, dry swimming-
pools and vacant allotments to
the astonishment of the yokels.
The ambitious Abe, however,
was fighting to get his team
into the big money and the
great arenas, but the billion-
dollar organisations looked at
him askance. By a stroke of
inspiration he thinks of a new
Idea —he will bring comedy into
the solemn business. He horri-
fies the official sportsmen but
delights the mob, as his Globe-
trotters are not only better
players than any of the teams
brought against them, but play
the game in a light-hearted
spirit which bewilders their
opponents. They end up cham-
pions who walk to victory over
the dignity of the crack Chicago
Majors.
The film is well done, and it
is difficult to see how any sport
could resist its allure. It would
be interesting to speculate on the
possibilities of applying the
same principles to that other
sacred institution, tennis.
❖ ❖ *
“Inferno”
This film, set in the Mojave
Desert and the mountains
thereabout, offers a good ex-
ample of the pulling-power of
melodrama when it falls into
the hands of a director of wit
and imagination.
The set-up is good. A young
millionaire with a broken leg is
abandoned well up in the seem-
ingly waterless mountains by his
pretty wife and her lover. They
depart in his high-powered car,
leaving him a full bottle of water
and expecting that he’ll be dead
in a week.
To make things look good the
wife reports his disappearance,
banking on his known habit of
doing strange things when he
hits the bottle. Searchers meet
with no success. But the lady
and her boy friend reckon with-
out the millionaire’s determina-
tion to stay alive—a determina-
tion nourished by a ferocious
eagerness for vengeance.
Robert Ryan, who makes
most other “tough” film-heroes
seem soft by comparison, lends
strong verisimilitude to the re-
sourcefulness of the stranded
man. With the aid of a rough
splint he shuffles painfully on his
way, lowering himself down
rocky ravines with a tenuous
nylon rope, and dealing with
such incidentals as a rattlesnake
and a wild dog that pinches his
tucker. From here the tension
rises. The climax comes when
the guilty lover, gnawed by
doubts, makes an aerial search
and spots the millionaire as he
staggers on his improvised
crutch across the desert. He
returns and sets out by car to
finish him off, and they meet in
a death-fight in a shack, with
an overturned lamp furnishing
the title.
Roy Baker’s direction
throughout is almost flawless,
and his many ironic touches —
such as switching a scene where
the millionaire claws the sand
in the hope of striking water to
the wife and her lover sipping
cool drinks by a dude-ranch
pool—are most effective. Robert
Ryan notches many points by
injecting a grim humor into the
business of beating the vultures,
and Rhonda Fleming and Wil-
liam Lundigan are competent as
the wife and the lover (Sydney
Esquire).
* * *
“Kansas Pacific”
One of those routine period-
pieces in which the ending is
telegraphed in the first few
hundred feet of fillum. It’s all
about the sabotaging by
Southern sympathisers of a new
railroad vital to the North in
the looming Civil War. But are
the machinations of the vil-
lainous Reed Hadley to be suc-
cessful? Why! How could they
be when Washington dispatches
such a bullet-proof hero as
Sterling Hayden to take the
situation in hand?
The tale moves slowly, and
no preliminary cardiac examina-
tion is necessary before viewing
it (Sydney Civic).


Wings off
the Sea
By J. E. MACDONNELL
SHERWOOD introduced
Swan to Natalie in the
wide hall of the hospital,
and waited while Natalie
did the same for Beryl. Watch-
ing Swan, Sherwood was pleased
that Natalie’s friend was short,
It had not occurred to him to
mention Swan’s height. Know-
ing the fighter-pilot’s feelings,
Sherwood had to smile at the
gentlemanly, officer-like polite-
ness with which the impish little
man met his girl. Target for to-
night, Sherwood grinned to him-
self.
They passed out into the warm
night to the jeep, which Sher-
wood had parked a little down
the drive. He saw Swan and
Beryl into the back seat, then
stepped back to where Natalie
waited for him, in the shadows
m rear of the car
lowly iaTKte*
her body like liquid silver.
Oh, darling, she murmured,
and was m his arms. Sherwood
bent to kiss her. She laid warm
fingers on his mouth.
Not here, Dick Lipstick.
But she pressed to him, so that
a fire of feeling flooded through
him and left him trembling.
“Later,” she whispered, rub-
bing his ear with her nose.
“Come on, darling. The
others . . .
Hawk’s quarter-deck was alive
with color. Red, white, yellow
Mue, green pendants draped
from deck-heads to guard-rads
flags covering the utilitarian steel
of berthine-wire bollards • long
or Denning wire uouaius, rung,
white, cloth-covered tables glit-
irbdfed nd bottles° ad and
buckets of ice; women’s even-
dresses a kMddoscone of
S&SSStZsfcSSuZ
and-gold of the officers. And
Baumer’s red face, relieved by
f he
for them through the chattering
throng -
“Ah, Sherwood.” He pulled
up before them. Lucky, as
usual. , , ~ .
Sherwood smiled back, tightly.
“Thank you sir. Miss
Chalmers Commander
Baumer.
w E3 sSf n f e * y niC t u°i- See y t° U *
Miss Chalmers. I believe last
time we were in.
“You believe correctly. Com-
mander,” Natalie answered
coolly.
Unabashed by her direct gaze,
almost on a level with his own,
Baumer cocked his head towards
the flight-deck, whence came the
sound of music. You great fool.
thought Sherwood savagely.
Baumer turned back to
Natalie.
“Music's started. Would you
care to dance?"
Sherwood took her arm. He
laughed, casually.
“Sorry, sir. She’s promised
this three months back. But
you might set the drinks up.”
He led Natalie through the
crowd. Several heads turned to
watch them. Then they were
alone on the upper-deck, walk-
ing to a flight-deck ladder. She
looked sideways at him.
“Darling, I couldn’t agree
more with what you did. But
should you have?”
“With a normal man, no.
But that oaf’s about as sub-
normal as they come. By the
way, incidentally and in passing,
he hates my guts.”
“Oh, Dick! Why?”
“You tell me and I’ll be a
much happier man. I’ve got an
idea —and Swannie has the same
notion, I’d say—but it’s only an
idea. But ...” He squeezed
her to him, “This is our night,
you breathtaking creature.” He
stopped, and looked at her.
“God, Natalie, you’re lovely.”
He noticed, couldn’t help
noticing, the way she looked
back at him under the intensity
of his stare, her face golden
brown, browner than the gold
of her hair, her lips parted, a
scarlet wound in the smooth oval
of her face.
“Come on,” he said roughly,
“I can’t stand this much longer.”
On the flight-deck Sherwood,
working to a prearranged plan,
sighted the captain and com-
mander, He walked Natalie up
to them, and introduced her.
They chatted a while, Natalie
cool and assured in her beauty,
both officers openly admiring.
Then Sherwood laughed, clear-
ing his throat.
“Well, if you’ll excuse us,
sir. Must try out the old sea-
legs.”
They watched them dance off.
Natalie danced like she walked.
The commander looked sideways
up at his senior.
“Humph,” he said,
“I quite agree. Tubby,”
answered the captain, “Come
on, you old has-been. Let’s
have a drink.”
Abreast the bridge, Sherwood
steered Natalie through the
bulkhead door.
“Where to?” she smiled. “I
was enjoying that.”
“There are nicer pleasures,”
grinned Sherwood. “And we’ve
sighted the Old Man.”
He waited for her to precede
him down the ladder. He was
breathing deeply, tensely. Love,
with any girl, by virtue of the,,
life he led, was a novelty to the
Strike Leader. With a woman
as freshly lovely as this beach-
tanned creature, it was a miracle.
And few men, certainly not
squadron-commanders, can take
miracles calmly.
He led her through a laby-
rinth of passages, to emerge at
the head of the forrard gang-
way. The marine corporal of the
gangway sprang to attention,
stifling his surprise at this un-
expected appearance so far for-
ward. Sherwood spoke curtly.
“Tell Lieutenant-Commander
Swan I’m going back to the hos-
pital. I’ll be back shortly.”
The man saluted. “Aye, aye,
sir.”
Halfway down the gangway
Natalie turned to look at him.
“Won’t your friend think that’s
funny?”
Sherwood chuckled.
“Swannie? Not likely. He’ll
be too busy looking after his
own interests.”
He handed her into the jeep,
and drove off, out of the lights of
the wharf area into the star-
relieved blackness of the harbor
road.
They drove for a mile without
speaking. Then Sherwood eased
down, and pulled off the side of
the road into the shadow of a
small grove of pines. Through
the blackness of the foliage the
water of the bay broke on the
sand in muted whispering, scal-
loping the white beach with
moon-tinted silver.
Sherwood slipped his arm
round her shoulders.
“Remember?” he said,
huskily.
Natalie stared straight ahead
a moment, silent. He saw her
breast rising as she breathed,
short, shallow breaths. Then she
turnbd, abruptly, looked into his
eyes, and without warning
pressed her mouth over his. He
felt its warm moistness. With a
choked cry he strained her to
him, his hand searching down
the swelling curve of her throat.
“Gently, darling,” she
whispered.
“We can’t go back now, very
well. Darling—can we? It
must be nearly midnight.”
Sherwood stretched himself
luxuriously on the soft bed of
pine-needles.
“No, my darling, we can’t.
And I must confess that going
back had not entered into the
plan of operations.”
She turned on her side, and
looked at him, her eyes half-
shut.
“You were sure of yourself,
weren’t you?”
“Yes,” he answered frankly.
“Just as sure as I was of you,”
She frowned, then lay back,
looking sideways at him under
her tumbled curls. She laughed,
softly.
“Know something, Dickie?”
“What?”
“I don’t care how sure you
were! ”
“That’s my girl,” he grinned.
He rose on one elbow, kissed
her, and remained looking down
at her, dimly white under the
pines, her hair here and there
catching the moon-glow. She
stared up into his face, seeing
the jutting jaw, the powerful
curve of the nose sweeping down
to meet it. She wrapped her arms
impulsively around him.
“Oh, darling, I wanted you,”
she whispered.
CHAPTER VIII
SHERWOOD was at break-
fast the next morning when
the steward approached
him.
“Excuse me, sir. Commander
Baumer would like to see you in
his cabin.”
Sherwood, his mouth full,
nodded.
Swan waited till the steward
was out of hearing, then asked:
“What’ve you been up to?
With Baumer, that is?”
Sherwood dropped his serviette
and rose.
“Swannie, there’s half-an-inch
of paint off my tail-plane; or a
streak of oil on my windscreen;
or any of a dozen other stupid
bloody things. How the hell
would I know?”
“M’m,” Swan grinned. “We’re
touchy this morning. Don’t tell
me the Jelly-belly’s getting under
our skin?”
Sherwood looked down at
him, frowning in annoyance at
the shaft.
“I must say you look
damned satisfied, yourself. And
I don’t mean with your break-
fast.”
“Enough of that. Enough of
that.”
Sherwood grinned. “Sorry,
Well, I’ll see what the panjan-
drum wants.”
He found Baumer smoking an
after-breakfast cigarette in his
cabin.
“Come in, Sherwood,” he
grunted.
The Strike Leader stepped into
the photograph-lined room, con-
scious at once of a smell of stale
sweat. He remained standing.
Baumer wasted no time.
“The public-relations boy has
a team of British and Australian
pressmen on board* They want
a story. Looks like you and
Swan are the heroes they’re
after.” Baumer grinned sar-
castically. “I’d censor the bit
about your submarine time if I
were you —they might ask how
you got there.”
Sherwood looked at him
levelly.
“Is that all, sir?”
“No, it’s not all.”
Baumer stabbed his cigarette
in the ashtray. As he leaned
forward Sherwood could see,
already, the dark sweat-patch
under his armpit. His lip curled
slightly in distaste.
Baumer pulled a signal to-
wards him, holding it in his
hand and looking up at the other.
“Signal this morning from the
commanding-officer of Dart.
The captain has passed it on to
me for decision.”
He held it out. Sherwood
read it swiftly. It was a sugges-
tion from Brewster to the cap-
tain that he allow one officer to
join Dart for an operational
mission beginning that after-
noon. And named Sherwood,
as Firefly squadron-commander,
mentioning the value of his
seeing air-sea co-operation at
first hand. Sherwood passed it
back.
“Yes?” he said, trying to keep
his tone disinterested.
“Well?” Baumer snapped.
“Do you want to go?”
You damn well know I want
to go, thought Sherwood, and
you’ve got your knock-back
reasons all taped. Aloud, he
answered. “Yes, sir.”
Baumer smiled, leaning back
in his chair,
“That can be arranged, Sher-
wood. You can take it as read.”
Sherwood was too surprised
to answer, Baumer nodded.
“That’s all,” he said. “Now
you’d better see those Press
boys. In the smoke-room.”
Sherwood was almost at the
door when Baumer called.
“One minute, Sherwood.”
He waited, hand on the cur-
tain.
“You may remember you
asked me to set up the drinks
for you and Miss Chalmers last
night. I didn’t see you again.”
The smooth voice ended on
a querying inflection.
Looking at the red, scarred
face, Sherwood suddenly saw
light.
“I’m sorry about the drinks,
sir,” he said evenly. “Miss
Chalmers wasn’t —feeling well.
I drove her home.”
Baumer laughed.
“You took your time,” he
sneered. “Where were you?”
A sudden, mouth-drying anger
filled Sherwood. This fat animal
—he knew what he was thinking.
He stared straight into Baumer’s
gloating face.
“Mind your own bloody busi-
ness,” he said, his voice low,
tense with suppressed feeling.
Baumer jerked his chair up-
right. He scrambled to his feet
and faced Sherwood. The Fire-
flier stared, in wonder, at
Baumer’s face. He had expected
anger, but not this. Baumer’s
face was blood-red. His eyes
wide, his mouth working open
and shut, impotently. His breath
came in gasps.
“Get out of here! ” he
mouthed. “You bloody hero!
I hate the sight of you!”
Sherwood’s eyes narrowed in
interest. Now that Baumer, had
said what he had, there was no
SYNOPSIS
Last week it was told, in
retrospect, how Swan, Sher-
wood’s pint-sized flying friend,
was rescued from a watery
grave by the fine seamanship of
Commander Brewster, captain
of Australian destroyer Dart.
Invited by Brewster on board
his ship when carrier Hawk
reaches Kure, Sherwood, with
Swan, meets the destroyer cap-
tain ; makes a friend and has a
night free from the worry of
Commander Baumer’s increas-
ing dislike of him. On return
to the carrier that night, the
quartermaster has a message for
Sherwood from Sister Natalie
Chalmers, of the Common-
wealth Forces’ Hospital ashore.
After ribald comment on the
lady’s eagerness by Swan, Sher-
wood telephones her and
arranges to meet her the follow-
ing night.


question of disciplinary action.
They were man to man now.
He remained standing near
the door, staring into Baumer’s
hot bloodshot eyes.
“I know that,” Sherwood ans-
wered. “I’d also like to know
why.”
“I —I” Baumer mouthed,
as though he could not get his
breath. Good God, thought
Sherwood, as bad as that! A
perverse devil drove him on to
say.
“And if you think Natalie
Chalmers will tag along with you
when I’m out in that destroyer
. . .” His lips curled under the
hawk nose. “A pig’d stand
more chance!”
Baumer came at him, his
mouth working in fury, his
hands stretched out like claws.
For a split-second Sherwood
tensed, his boxer’s hands itching,
pressing up and down his thighs.
Then he wheeled swiftly and
stepped out into the passage.
In the cabin Baumer stood
staring speechlessly at the sway-
ing curtain, his hands still out,
grasping. Gradually his breath
became easier; the blood
drained back from his face. He
groaned, dropped his hands, and
groped back for the chair. He
slumped into it, burying his face
in his hands, his fingers clutch-
ing at his hair.
“Oh God, oh God,” he
groaned softly. “I —can’t —
stand it.”
Sherwood was a worried man
as he stepped into the smoke-
room. It was out in the open
now, naked, ugly. Something
had to break. How? Approach
the captain and report: “Please,
sir. Commander Baumer would
like to have my guts for a neck-
tie”?
Sherwood became conscious
of half a dozen faces turning and
staring at him. He managed a
grin, and walked across the
chair-filled room, threading
through the brass cartridge-
cylinder ashtrays to the group
of newspapermen. The public-
relations officer, a young lieu-
tenant, introduced him. Swan,
it seemed, had already been
done over.
Sherwood was in the middle
of describing an attack on a
railway-station, the newsmen
scribbling, when he heard the
P.R.O.’s voice. Sherwood tensed,
“Excuse me, gentlemen,” said
the P.R.O. “This is Commander
Baumer. Commander Air.
Commander Baumer is respon-
sible for the ship’s flying opera-
tions.”
The Press group turned
reluctantly from Sherwood, one
or two giving him an apologetic
grin. Sherwood lit a cigarette,
watching Baumer, What sort of
man was he? What in hell was
wrong with him? The violent
Baumer Sherwood had last seen
was now smooth, smiling.
“Yes, gentlemen,” he was say-
ing ; “anything I can do to help
you, just mention it.”
The P.R.O. whispered some-
thing to one of the reporters, a
lean, wiry man with a keen face
tanned the hue of old leather.
The reporter cleared his throat.
His voice was nasal.
“I hear you were in the Bis-
marck and Taranto shows.
Commander?”
Baumer nodded. He touched
his scar. “Taranto,” he smiled.
Sherwood felt Swan beside
him. They were now on the out-
skirts of the group. Sherwood
grinned at his pint-sized friend.
“Now I know how they felt
when Garbo came on the scene.”
Swan grunted.
“Look at the silly newt. If he
preens himself much more he’ll
take off.”
The lean, brown reporter was
speaking to Baumer.
“But here, sir,” he said, “you
don’t do any actual flying?”
Swan dug Sherwood in the
ribs.
“Well, no, not exactly,”
Baumer answered. “You see,
I”
“And we really wanted to send
stories down about the coves
who’ve been over Korea. I’m
from the Melbourne ‘Star’,” he
went on, with a grin that showed
his white teeth against the
brown. “And our people want
to read about those of your
coves who’ve actually been in
support of our Diggers.”
One of the other reporters
whispered to him.
“Easy, Jack —he’s got a good
story, Bismarck, Taranto.”
The Australian stepped back.
“Okay, boys, go for your lives.
I know what I want.”
The P.R.0., to relieve
Baumer’s obvious embarrass-
ment, pulled a photographer for-
ward.
“Would you mind, sir? Pic-
ture.”
“Not at all. All for the
Service,” Baumer answered,
smiling to hide his anger. He
looked at the photographer.
The photographer was sight-
ing his instrument when he
noticed Baumer’s bare head. He
dropped his camera and asked:
“Better with your cap on, if you
don’t mind?”
“C e r t a i n 1 y,” answered
"Swan said, slowly and deliberately, ‘Dick, Baumer is yellow.' ”
Baumer. He fixed his cap, then,
almost at once, took it off again,
and fiddled with the cap-band.
“Excuse me a moment,” he
grinned, looking round the
watching group. “But it’s a
funny thing. In the Southern
Hemisphere—where we’ve come
from, y’ know—you can put
your cap-band on straight”
“Oh, hell,” Swan groaned be-
side Sherwood. “Not that
corn! These blokes aren’t cub-
reporters.”
“ and it stays that way,”
Baumer went on. He jiggled
with the badge on the black
band. “But once you cross the
Equator rotating of the earth,
y’ know you put the damned
thing on straight at eight in the
morning and by eight bells at
noon she’s shifted a couple of
inches to starb d.”
He put his cap back and
looked at the photographer.
In the silence the browned
Australian’s voice was crisp and
c ]e ar .
“You know. Commander,” he
said. All eyes turned to him.
“In all my fourteen years in the
permanent R.A.N. that never
once happened to me.”
Sherwood heard a deep ex-
plosion beside him. Swan was
thumping his belly, roaring.
Sherwood grinned down at him.
When he looked up Baumer was
striding towards the door, the
back of his neck a choleric red
above the open-necked white
shirt.
The Australian came up to
Sherwood.
“I didn’t mean to upset the
Commander,” he said in a low
voice. “But these boys are war-
correspondents read by a hun-
dred or two. And that joke was
corny when I was in triangular
trousers.”
“That’s all right,” smiled
Sherwood. “He asked for it.”
The Australian nodded.
“Glad you take it that way.
Now, where were we? That
railway-station . . . ?”
Outside the door of the smoke-
room, which was also the bar,
Baumer, in his angry exit, col-
lided with the senior medical
officer. The rotund surgeon
drew back hastily in a mock atti-
t ude of defence. But his eyes,
S et deep in the rolls of his face,
were scanning Baumer’s flushed
visage keenly
mv soul ,„ said the
e M Q “You’re in a hurrv ”
5 re „ y *
‘Sorry, Doc., muttered
Baumer, and strode past him
down the echoin 8 steel P a »sage-
wa ¥* .
The S.M.O, looked after him,
slowly pulling a cigarette from
his case. He tapped the cylinder
thoughtfully, looked at the
smoke-room door, then abruptly
turned on his heel and walked
aft-
The young surgeon-lieutenant
was in the sick-bay when the
messenger found him.
“S.M.O. would like to see you,
s j r »
“Right,” answered the sur-
geon.
The S.M.O.’s cabin, as be-
fitted his commander’s rank and
experience, was large, airy, sun-
lit and lined with photographs
of every ship he had served in.
On the forrard bulkhead a row
of well-used books shrugged
their ragged backs behind the
glass doors of their case. The
S.M.O. was at the bookcase
when his junior knocked and
stepped in.
“Oh, Blair. Sit down, won’t
you?”
“Thank you, sir.”
The young surgeon watched
his chief while he ran his fingers
along the books and finally
eased one out. He liked and
respected the S.M.O. And was
envious of the calm assurance
of the older man. It had been
won through thirty years at sea,
some of it in World War I.
Noting the S.M.O. flicking the
pages of the heavy tome he held,
the surgeon remembered the first
time he had come across his
chief’s name. It was appended
to a long chapter, in a book of
war-surgery, on the treatment
of wounds suffered aboard war-
ships from ricocheting Shetl-
and steel-splinters. At the uni-
versity he had read the chapter
with particular interest, in view
of his intention of joining the
author’s research - field on
graduation. That was in 1949.
He had not, so soon, expected
to be in a position where he
could put the S.M.O.’s precepts
into practice.
But now the S.M.O. was con-
cerned with other wounds than
the easily diagnosed and treated
scars of enemy shells. He left
the bookcase and jumped up on
to his bunk, facing Blair, his
short, thick legs dangling above
the deck. He looked at the
young surgeon keenly, one eye
almost shut.
“Blair, have you been watch-
ing Commander Baumer since
we came up to Korea?”
The youngster hesitated.
“Yes, sir,” he said finally.
“But . . .”
“Yes?”
“I’m damned if I know what
to put it down to,”
The S.M.O tapped his book.
“Blood-pressure? With an
excellent chance of resultant
apoplexy?”
Blair answered instantly.
“That’s pretty obvious, sir.”
He grinned selfconsciously at
his quick assertion, and went
on; “But there’s —something
else to it.”
The S.M.O. leaned forward.
“Then you do think there is
something?”
“Yes, sir.”
“What?”
“I haven’t a clue, sir.”
“H’mph,” said the S.M.O. He
laid his book on the bunk, still
looking down at it. He spoke
reflectively.
“I’ve been watching Baumer
for some time myself. Most of
the time he’s perfectly normal.
Apart from his arteries. Which,
by the way, I’ve had a word
with him about.”
The surgeon said “But he still
flies, sir.”
“He won’t for much longer
if he doesn’t take a pull at him-
self. The ailment is, now, per-
fectly remediable. But there’s
the other complication you
mentioned.”
He looked at Blair.
“I notice it’s invariably after
a fracas with Sherwood. Which
brings up the interesting point
as to whether his arteries cause
his shortness —to put it mildly
—with Sherwood ; or whether
Sherwood himself sends the
pressure up.”
The younger man was silent,
waiting.
“I’m rather inclined to the
latter view,” the S.M.O. went on
slowly. He was talking almost
to himself. “Now, what is there
between those two to cause such
ructions? You must have seen
it a dozen times, in the mess, on
deck. Sherwood, I saw, was in
the smoke-room when Baumer
almost bowled me over coming
out. I was also on the bridge
when I saw him wait for a while
in his cockpit after he’d tested
that catapult. Now, what was
he recovering from? It could
be ...”
“Yes, sir?” Blair asked as the
other paused.
“Nothing.”
The S.M.O. fixed the surgeon
again with his quizzical one-
eyed glance. “As you will have
learned, young feller, you don’t
diagnose till you’re sure.” He
got up, thumping his feet on to
the deck. “Well, that’s all.” He
spoke crisply. “I wanted to see
if you’d also noticed anything.
You might keep an eye on
Baumer. But be damned sure
he doesn’t see it. Let me know
if you do get a clue.”
Blair stood up.
“Yes, sir,” he nodded.
“There’s also the little compli-
cation that Baumer’s dislike —
almost hate. I’d call it—could
affect Sherwood’s flying. Those
birds are crazy enough as it is
without any worry on their
minds.”
“That is so,” the S.M.O.
agreed. “But I think we can
rely on Sherwood’s stability.
What I’m concerned about is
Baumer’s.” He nodded. “All
right, Blair.”
Commander Baumer was also
being discussed, on unmedical
but intimate terms, on the flight-
deck. Sherwood paced along
the reach of tarmac in the hot
sunshine, Swan keeping station
with short steps beside him.
“It’s out, Swannie,” Sherwood
had said as soon as they were
clear on deck. Then he told his
friend' of the scene in Baumer’s
cabin. Swan listened intently,
and, when they reached the
round-down of the bows, with
the line of wharf-cranes crouch-
ing ahead of them, stopped. He
sucked his lip a moment, then
looked up at Sherwood.
“Dick, I’ve been holding off a
long time with this. It’s not
the "sort of thing a man says of
another —even if he is sure. But
.
(Continued on next page)


SiK
f
Invest in the world’s finest projector
PAILLARD BOLEX MBR
Price inc. Delux Case—£B9/17/3
See your pictures at their best!
GIVE YOUR MOVIES
A GOOD START
FOR THE NEW YEAR!
liay-by or special easy terms
available.
We send C.O.D.
For Ail Your
Photographic Supplies
Write or Call
Cairns Camera Service
Hotel Australia Building:,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
I reckon that that 'y° u bloody
hero’ of Baumer’s in the cabin
is the key to the whole problem
of his hate. And, old feller, it
is hate.”
Sherwood pulled at his nose,
his brow crinkled,
“Go on,” he said, quietly.
Swan said, slowly and de-
liberately :
“Dick, Baumer is yellow,”
He waited. Sherwood stared
out over the dockyard, silent.
The bald-headed little Fury
pilot, reading Sherwood’s silence
accurately, went on.
“You know it, too. Hap
knows it. We both saw the look
on his face when I told him to
test his bloody catapult himself.
We both saw his face when he
stuck in his cockpit after he’d
landed. Recovering his nerve.”
Sherwood turned and looked
down at him. It was one of the
few times he had seen Swan
serious.
“Poor bastard,” Swan con-
tinued ; “it can’t have always
been like this. Bismarck —■
Taranto. And plenty of others
in between. But he’s cracked.
And, worst of all, he knows it.
Which accounts for his hating
your guts—and, to a less extent,
mine.”
He caught Sherwood’s stare,
“You have a certain attitude
about you, Dick.”
Sherwood looked at him again.
Swan was perfectly serious—•
which convinced Sherwood, used
as he was to his friend’s raillery,
more than any verbal assurances
could have done, of the surety
in Swan’s mind of his own diag-
nosis.
“You’re what the writing-boys
call cool, calm and collected,”
Swan went on. “Even if, like
me sometimes, your guts is
turning to water. And, old
friend, Baumer hates you for
it,”
He grinned suddenly up at
the other.
“Don’t tell me you don’t think
I’m right.”
“Yes, Swannie,” Sherwood
answered slowly. “I think you’re
right. About the cracking, I
mean. And the rest of the yarn
seems logical.”
Sherwood’s voice quickened.
“But that doesn’t solve a thing.
I’ve got to live —work —with
him. Even more than you. Got
to take his blasted sneers and
insults. When he mentioned
Natalie . . .” The big flier’s
hands clenched and opened.
“Why the hell doesn’t he quit
flying? Get to blazes out of
it?”
Now that it was out, this
knowledge shared, previously
unspoken, between them, Swan
was himself again.
“Brilliant,” he grinned
impishly. “How would you get
out of it? Run to the S.M.O.
and say: ‘Look here, Doc., I’m
as yellow as a peach’? No,
Richard, the more the poor
blighter thinks about it—and
remembers how he once was —■
the more he’ll try and fight it.
That’s why he took off twice
from the catapult.”
“And in the meantime?”
“In the meantime we’ve got to
raddle him as little as possible.
So long as we’re agreed on
what’s up he can’t get under the
old skin. And, remember, when
the important work’s on, Jelly-
belly’s safe and sound back
home.”
Sherwood rubbed his face
tiredly,
“Yes. Back home and wait-
ing. But you’re right, Swannie.
You must also admit that it’s
one hell of a position.”
Swan looked at his watch.
“Come on, feller. Dart’s boat
is due any minute.”
They walked towards the
bridge.
“While you’re out destroyer-
ing tonight, old cock,” Swan
grinned as they reached the
door, “I’ll be out —er —with
young Beryl.”
“Hell! ” Sherwood suddenly
halted.
“What’s agitating the brain
now?”
“I clean forgot to tell Natalie
I’ll be off for a few days. Look,
Swannie, you might do the
decent and see her for me.”
“Sure thing. I might even
send Hap out . . .”
Sherwood laughed and passed
inside the bridge.
Ten minutes later Swan
watched Dart’s little motor-boat
pull clear and head for the
destroyer-basin, Sherwood sit-
ting in the stern-sheets. Above
the line of lean destroyers hung
a faint brown haze of funnel-
heat.
Well, Dickie, Swan thought,
we both know now. What it’ll
all end up in I’m damned if I
know. And I’m damned if I
care! I’ve got problems—pleas-
ant problems —of my own.
The little fighter-pilot made
his way to his cabin to prepare
for his own departure to the
Commonwealth Hospital.
CHAPTER IX
SHERWOOD stood up in the
stem-sheets as the boat ap-
proached the destroyer-trot, and
stared in appreciation at the line
of grey ships smelling the wind,
a drooping chain from the nose
of each tethering her to the buoy.
Hawk’s acreage of flight-deck
was utilitarian and extremely nice
to thump down on. It was also
extremely unbeautiful, the
square overhanging bow and
rounded-down stern successfully
hiding any grace her hull might
have. But here, in this line of
eight boats, was beauty—fast,
clean-limbed, rakish beauty.
And deadliness ; with the twin-
turretted guns on the forepart,
advancing their long-barrelled
menace before a bridge looking
like a hammerhead drawn back
to strike.
Brewster met him at the gang-
way on the quarter-deck, his
hand out, smiling.
“Glad you could come, Sher-
wood.”
“Glad to be here, sir,”
answered the pilot, with his face-
lightening grin. “What’s doing?”
Brewster led him forward
along the deck, past the quintuple
torpedo-tubes crouched on their
mounting, each mouth filled with
a red, explosive tongue.
“Specifically, a bit of shore-
bombardment first. Then a
general patrol up the west coast.
That takes in everything, from
trains to troop-concentrations.
Much the same as your own
business. It probably won’t be
madly exciting. But, ..”
“But you never know, eh?”
grinned Sherwood, finishing the
sentence.
The captain preceded him on
to the bridge. Sherwood looked
round its instrument-packed
confines with interest. He had
done some time in general ser-
vice before taking to the air,
but this would be his first ex-
perience of a destroyer on an
operational mission. Looking
down over the long bow, the
flares either side curving-in in
perfect streamline to the sharp
stem, Sherwood’s gaze lifted up
to the storied block of the hos-
pital a half-mile ahead. Natalie.
She would probably be annoyed
at his abrupt departure. The
realisation that she would be
annoyed started a train of
thought in the pilot’s mind —•
a feeling partly of irritation at
Natalie’s proprietary interest,
partly of vague distaste. Natalie
had been, he remembered, a
little —too easy. Sherwood
grinned inwardly at that
thought. But even the admission
to himself that, then, he would
have had her no other way
failed to dispel that impression
of faint disgust. The first-
lieutenant’s voice behind him
cut short his musing.
“Ready to slip, sir,” Number
One said to the captain.
He came over to Sherwood,
standing near the forrard wind-
break.
“Nice to have you with us.”
Number One’s omission of
“sir” and his stopping short of
“Sherwood” was a nice indica-
tion of his own position. Here
he was second-in-command of
the ship—comparatively a more
senior post than Sherwood’s in
the carrier, even though Sher-
wood was senior by his half-
ring. The flier grinned back
at him, the friendly smile which
softened the almost harsh stern-
ness of jutting jaw and curved
nose.
“I feel the same —now,” he
answered, rubbing his belly.
“But I hope this ocean grey-
hound of yours keeps in calm
country. It’s a long time since
I shipped in anything under a
cruiser.”
“They tell me,” grinned
Number One, “that air-sickness
is much the same. If it’s not,
you might remember to heave
over the lee side. I’ve just had
the bridge spruced up.”
Sherwood’s reply was cut
short by the captain’s call:
“Slip!”
Number One jumped to the
edge of the bridge and repeated
the order in a shout to the
foc’s’le. The waiting cable-party
bent busily, straightened and
watched while a hammer swung
and struck with a metallic clang
on the big steel slip. Instantly
the taut bar that was the slip-
rope collapsed into a writhing,
slithering wire that snaked along
the deck, dropped out the
hawse-pipe and splashed into
the water. The big red buoy
surged back, tossing under the
sudden release of weight. At a
petty-officer’s shout all hands
grabbed hold and ran away with
the inboard-end of the wire.
The cable-officer turned to his
phone-number. A second later
the bridge counterpart reported
to Brewster.
“All gone forrard, sir.”
Sherwood watched the signal-
man on the foc’s’le haul down
the Australian Commonwealth
Jack from its staff and roll its
colored folds into a tight
cylinder. That simple action,
all over the world where British
warships got under way, was
the definite indication that the
ship had severed all connection
with shore or sea-bottom. The
signalman pulled a flag from
the rack lashed to the guard-
rail and hurried over to the
other side, pointing his flag
downwards at the buoy, hidden
from Brewster by the outward
curve of her flare.
While the rest of the cable-
party started reeling up the
slip-rope, oiling its wet length
with boiled-oil as it wound on
the reel, two hands struck down
the jack-staff. Another indica-
tion of this war that’s not a war,
thought Sherwood. Normally,
that jack-staff, some twenty feet
high, would have been stowed
away for the duration ; the guns,
firing right ahead, could have
struck it. In this scrap Kure
was a peaceful base (in a
neutral country), remote from
possibility of enemy attack. So,
as Korea was “police-action,”
the jack-staff and ensign came
out on anchoring therein.
But, regardless of how the
United Nations viewed this
distant fracas, or the Australian
High Court, either, when it de-
cided, in the Government’s
efforts to enforce the Com-
munist-party Dissolution Act,
that the country was not at war,
Dart’s Downunder complement
had their own ideas of what
they were heading for. You don’t
worry about the international
legality or otherwise of an
enemy shell heading your way
at two thousand feet per
second ; nor whether it was dis-
patched by a legally hostile
Power. Sherwood watched as
B-turret swung below him, test-
ing training and elevating
mechanism. The heavy mount-
ing swung smoothly, with a
faint grind of bearings and
whine of electric pumps.
A complementary whirr
above him brought his head up,
to where the armor-plated
gunnery-control director, its
radar-reflectors projecting on
either side like Cyclopean eyes,
swung on its testing circuit.
Sherwood noticed that A and
B guns were now pointing in the
same direction as the director,
which was the master-eye of all
guns. That meant that the
armament was lining-up its ele-
vation- and training-receivers—
with the ship barely under way.
Smart boy, this first-lieutenant,
thought Sherwood. Nice to
know that when his guns are
going to be the deciding factor
as to whether you return to
your own address.
He walked over to the lanky,
brown-faced officer. The first-
lieutenant, Sherwood noted, also
had a look of Bondi beach
about him —of long, sun-
drenched hours spent in the
pouring green-and-white surf,
ending its long trans-Pacific run
on the golden sands.
Number One turned and
smiled at him.
“Those bang-boxes of yours,”
Sherwood asked him. “New
type, aren’t they?”
Number One’s smile widened.
“They don’t come much
newer. Four-point-fives. Gas-
proof turrets. They’re dual-
purpose, of course—surface and
anti-aircraft. I’d like to show
you over ’em later. Rather a
nifty loading arrangement. It’s
all done by a lever movement —
breach opens, shells swings over
in rear, rams in, breech shuts.
And as for our radar-con-
trol . .
Number One gave a short
laugh.
“Excuse the proprietary in-
terest. But I’d hate to be on the
receiving end once those twin
optics up there” —he waved up
to the director —“get fastened
on to anything. Anyway, I hope
we can show you something in
the way of nineteen-fifty-three
radar-control.”
“You will. Number One,”
interrupted Brewster. He came
over with a signal in his hand.
“Target for tomorrow. Dawn.
Chinnampo’s the address. It
will be rapid-fire concentration
shooting. You might tell the
gunner.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Brewster looked at Sherwood
as Number One moved off.
“Keen lad, that. Just between
you and me, it’s just as well.
I’ll admit there’s not much I
don’t know about putting this
floating fortress where I want
her. But gunnery—she’s a
damned young cruiser compared
to what I was reared in. And
radar! I went through the
8.8. C. once. I reckon they’re
in the Marconi stage compared
to what we carry in our
thousand or so radar offices!
Anyhow ...” he grinned at the
lean flier. “How’s my feathered
friend feel at zero altitude?”
“Very pleasantly, thank you.
I can take a lot of this.”
Sherwood glanced astern at
the following ship, her knife of
a stem curving twin-jets up-
wards and outwards from the
milky whiteness of Dart’s wake.
Ahead of them. Dart being
fourth in the line, the next ship
spawned a tossing, heaped-up
mound of wash from her low-
hung tail.
“Lovely ships,” the pilot mur-
mured appreciatively.
Brewster leaned his arms on
the windbreak, gazing ahead.
“Yes, they are,” he answered.
“When they build better ships
we’ll build ’em. That is,” he
corrected himself, grinning,
“with some help from the Royal
Navy. Well, I’ve got a spot of
work in my cabin.”
Sherwood stood aside for the
captain to pass, then turned to
the first-lieutenant.
“How about a look at those
manglers of yours, Jimmy?”
Jimmy—one of the more
printable half-dozen or so titles
the first-lieutenant rated—
answered with a “with-pleasure”
grin.
All day the destroyer line
steamed, twisting through the
islands of the Inland Sea, shap-
ing course well south of the tip
of Korea, out of sight of the
land, running in rigid line-
ahead, each water-curving stem
jetting into the milky wash of its
next-ahead.
Sherwood at first found the
first - lieutenant’s enthusiasm
diverting. Being the competent
flier he was, he found it good
that this officer of a junior
Navy should be so proud of his
ship and the hefty punch she
packed. But when they had
finished with the twin turrets,
then the omnisciently deadly
depth-charge throwing Squid
and then the radar-rooms —and
after he had climbed awkwardly
up through the narrow maga-
zine-hatches, sweating, and
Number One had suggested the
engine-room, Sherwood called
a halt.
“Mind if we ease down, old
boy? I think you’ve got a mar-
vellous ship—but the rest of
her can keep till tomorrow.
You’ve got me just about
through.”
(Continued on page 24)


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a
cold water and telephone in all rooms.
• •
m 3
■
:
i
moderate tariff. Hot and
Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY RATES:
Single Rooms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
s' \
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLEr
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
To Wake up dead
Nancy Keesing
<< I ET’S have a look at that
duty-list again,” said
L Matron. “It’s quite
absurd. Someone
reasonably senior must be free.”
The sub-matron. Sister Ark-
wright, an energetic but tiny
little woman, peered over
Matron’s massive shoulder.
“Of course,” she remarked,
“these things always happen
when there’s an epidemic.”
“It’s just that one remembers
the difficult times,” Matron said
calmly. She eased her strong,
heavily-built body back into her
chair. “If any more of them
catch the ’flu we’ll be looking
for nurses to nurse nurses. How
about Nurse Erskine? She came
off night-duty this morning and
she’s as good as through her
training.”
“She would of course, though
it seems a shame to take
advantage of her willingness all
the time.”
“No doubt it’s a sign of age,”
Matron observed, “but it seems
to me that there used to be more
trainees of Erskine’s calibre in
the old days. If Sister Brown
had a bit of her spirit she’d find
some way of managing without
extra help and we wouldn’t be
in this fix,”
“Maybe she’s going down with
’flu, too,” said Sister Arkwright.
“Stuff and nonsense! You
know as well as I do what’s the
matter with her. As soon as this
staff-shortage is over I’ll send
her packing. She’s a rotten influ-
ence round the place, anyway:
even the juniors are laughing at
her.”
“Or admiring?”
“And what could be more
undesirable than that? Besides,
she can’t go on like this in-
definitely. She’ll crack some-
where, her sort always do.”
“Shall I see Erskne?”
“If you would.”
CISTER ARKWRIGHT
knocked several times before
Mary Erskine opened the door
to her darkened bedroom.
“Please come in. Sister,” she
pushed a chair forward, glancing
at her watch.
“No,” said Sister Arkwright;
“you haven’t overslept.”
Erskine looked tired, she
thought, and in need of her two
days’ break after . night-duty.
Now that she had let up the
blinds her weariness was
emphasised or perhaps the
effect was due to sudden
awakening.
“Sit down, Nurse. I do
apologise for this, but the posi-
tion is ... ”
The influenza epidemic had
caused staff-shortages in every
department of Molungra District
Hospital. In addition to six
nurses unable to work, the cook
and two kitchen-hands had
succumbed. Matron was doing
the cooking, Sister Arkwright
was looking after the sick staff
and nurses.
“But as you know, we were
coping. Now we’ve been landed
with a case from River Camp
and it’s proved the last straw.”
One way and another about
threequarters of the hospital’s
problems seemed to come from
River Camp, a settlement about
ten miles from Molungra. It was
a small flat clearing where
vagrants ; casual laborers and
sleeper - cutters congregated.
Until the depression, several
half-caste families were its only
inhabitants. During the ’thirties
a number of white people built
huts and humpies there, and,
though constantly changing its
component souls, River Camp
had retained much the same
number of population ever since,
This morning’s admission was
the young white de facto wife of
Charlie Grayson. The Graysons
were the last remaining family of
colored people living at River
Camp: or rather they owned a
small scrubby farm which began
somewhere half-way up the
uncompromising side of Mount
Molungra, and their one fertile
paddock took in a corner of the
cleared flat. The old Graysons
had no time for Charlie, who,
when “home,” used a tent by the
river, and worked for the timber
mill.
His parents were quarter-
caste ; Charlie had very little
color, a plausible manner, and a
habit of clearing out to Sydney
every two years or so. There he
worked until his existing encum-
brance made plans for herself
and any offspring involved.
Thence he invariably returned
with a new woman, who, until
the end of her first day at the
camp, possibly believed his
claims to being a grazier.
This “Mrs.” Grayson had been
at the camp for six months.
During that time Mrs.
O’Hennessy at the Molungra
Hotel had employed her on
several occasions for cleaning
jobs. Rumor, via Mrs.
O’Hennessy, had reached the
hospital to the effect that she
was “different” and “quite a
lady.” Mrs. O’Hennessy’s
opinion was that she was saving
to get away from the camp,
being too proud to go home “cap
in hand.”
The hospital claimed a certain
interest in the successive Mrs.
Graysons because, sooner or
later, it usually found a bed for
them: most often in the
maternity-wing. This was the
first time that one had required
treatment for a cut throat.
“She didn’t get deep enough
to do any real damage,” Sister
Arkwright explained, “but she
apparently was not found for
some hours. And she must be
watched all the time. We don’t
know what her state of mind
will be when she comes round.”
“Poor thing. I’ll get dressed
now and go down. She’s in the
surgical ward?”
“Actually no Not a snare
Actually, no Not a spare
wl Wr Cwn ”
with Sister Brown.
Mary Erskine stepped from
the window to the dark comer
tie w^h basin stood. She
filled a tumbler at the tap,
“Sister Arkwright, isn’t there
anyone else who could go?
Someone from surgical or . . .
no, you say you’ve thought of
everything . . . I must be half-
asleep still.”
Sister moved across and put
her hand on the girl’s shoulder,
“We do appreciate this,” she
said, and then briskly “Let’s hope
you don’t get the ’flu.”
“I’m not afraid of that.”
C|ISTER BROWN sat at her
desk looking at Mrs. Gray-
son, still unconscious behind
the screens which hid her from
the rest of the ward. She glanced
at the desk clock; Dr. Pendle-
bury, the new resident medical
officer, should be visiting the
ward soon. He had been at the
hospital for only a week, and
appeared to be exceedingly shy
and very earnest,
However, now his predecessor,
Dr. Bart, had departed, it was
possible that he would display a
little more confidence, and, as
Molungra Hospital required at
least two years’ previous resident
experience from its medical
officers, he must be older than he
looked. Fair people, like Dr.
Pendlebury and, for that matter,
herself, were deceptive in this
matter of age. With which
thought she arranged her pretty,
slightly passe features into a
mask suitable to a person who,
having just survived one of her
more or less annual Disappomt-
,^ as . Bravely Bearmg-up
opened; she
turned with a forbe F arin little
smilCj then stood up as Sister
Arkwright walked through. The
sm ji e> almost as if of its own
acCo rd, became polite but
defensive.
The sub-matron said: “Good
morning, Sister. You’ll be glad
to know we’ve managed to find
an extra nurse to help you out.
How are things going?”
“Quite well. Mrs. Grayson’s
still unconscious.”
“Nurse Erskine should be here
soon. She’s dressing now, and
Matron is sending her a tray
from the kitchen. You’ll be all
right for half-an-hour?”
“Oh, quite. Of course I could
have managed with junior pros
if it hadn’t been for this.”
Sister Arkwright bustled off.
In the corridor she met old Dr.
Hughes.
“Goodness, Doctor, I thought
you’d left hours ago.” He, too,
looked tired, she thought. Every-
one did today. He was getting
old for his large practice and
hospital work, but Heaven only
knew what would happen to
Molungra when he finally retired
or died. The really good young
men, like Dr. Eric Bart, who
had driven off this morning, pre-
ferred city practices,
could have been no later
A than seven o’clock this mom-
mg when Dr. Hughes had left
home for River Camp with
Sergeant Fellowes and a con-
stable. No one seemed to be
quite sure at what time Mrs -
G had t her throat
When the doctor and policemen
arrived, ther£ she was f ying in a
sleeper-cutter’s tent, the nearest
shelter to the river . bank whe re
tbe sleeper-cutter’s wife had
found her at sunrise.
The woman told them that
Mrs. Grayson had come to her
tent about ten o’clock last night,
saying that Charlie was having
a party, and that she wanted to
spend the night elsewhere. She
agreed to let Mrs. Grayson stay,
but shortly afterwards Charlie
and two other men had come
round looking for the girl, and
Charlie insisted that his wife’s
duty was to entertain his guests.
Mrs. Grayson had returned with
him.
No, she was quite sober; but
the men seemed to have had a
skinful. No, there was no threat
of violence, although Charlie
Grayson was never one to hold
his tongue. Yes, she had seen a
bit of Mrs. Grayson one way
and another. She liked her, all
right, and felt sorry for her, but
you couldn’t call them friends.
After all if a girl went and lived
with a b like Grayson it was
her choice, wasn’t it?
Dr. Hughes and the sergeant
had driven back with the patient,
leaving the constable to attend
to the sobering-up of Charlie
Grayson against their return.
“What a mess,” said Sister
Arkwright.
“Could have been worse. I’ve
been having a chat with young
Pendlebury. It’s a tough time
for him to take up duty, though
Bart managed to show him
most of the routine last week.
Pendlebury’ll be a good chap.
He knows enough to feel
ignorant.”
“About Mrs. Grayson?”
“Mostly. Though, mind you,
he’s looking forward
tremendously to messing about
with her psychology. As a
matter of fact I’m looking
forward to something myself.”
“Which is?”
“Sergeant Fellowes and I are
going back to River Camp now.
Fact is, I’m running late. If you
feel mawkish. Sister, a prayer
for Charlie Grayson might be
in order—and I hope it won’t be
answered.”
“Me, mawkish? Get along
with you!”
Aj-ARY ERSKINE ate two
boiled eggs, toast and tea;
not because she felt hungry, but
she was going to work hard, and
not to eat would be foolish.
Matron had expressed her thanks
by sending up a nice-looking tray
with an embroidered cloth and
a sprig of red creeper trailing
over one side. Cook would never
have bothered with such refine-
ments on a busy morning. She
appreciated Matron’s gesture,
but one really had no alternative.
And it might be better meeting
Sister Brown in the ward, rather
than in the staff sitting-room.
She wondered if she would
feel sorry for Angela Brown
when she saw her, or continue
to wish, as she had done since
yesterday afternoon, that she
could scratch her pretty silly
little face.
Unfortunately, until she heard
from Eric, she had no way of
knowing whether he had told
Angela Brown of their engage-
ment. As she was on night-duty,
they could not have spent Eric’s
last night in Molungra together.
anyway. It was bad luck; and
she understood, unpleasant as it
was, that he had been wise to
see Angela Brown, who, he said,
was stolidly to believe that his
having taken her out several
times was not evidence that he
loved her violently.
“She’s been pestering the life
out of me,” Eric said; “and
honestly, darling, if you can
understand, I’d sooner see her
and get things straight.”
“Will you tell her about us?”
“That depends. But I want
her to realise everything’s
definitely finished as far as she’s
concerned.”
AiCRS. GRAYSON moaned
softly. Sister Brown went
over and felt her pulse.
“What they don’t realise,” she
thought, “is that I can take this
in my stride. If there were only
some other sympathetic girl
here instead of smug types like
Erskine and old - fashioned
fuddy-duddies like Arkwright it
would be easier, though. Some-
one to talk to. Eric is over.
Naturally I had to see him last
night to tell him myself. The
truth is I’d finished with him
ages ago. Men think all country
women are bumpkins. They
can’t comprehend that these days
a girl must look round a bit.”
She made a note on the
squared chart and straightened
the woman’s pillow. “The great
thing,” she said to herself, “is to
be gay,”
Mrs. Grayson opened her eyes
and looked directly at a strained
smile, a new mask, which seemed
to float independent of any-
body, a cardboard face grinning
with no soul or spirit to give it
meaning.
“Oh,” she moaned.
“Well!” said Sister brightly.
“You’re awake.”
“Where?”
“In hospital, dear. Now, don’t
talk; because you have a bad
throat.” Mrs, Grayson’s eyes
travelled about. They lingered
on the shiny brass knobs of the
screen, turned to the clock tick-
ing regularly on Sister’s desk,
looked down to the end of her
bed, up Sister’s body, to the
mask.
“I’m ...”
“Sh-h. We’ll have a drink,
shall we? Nurse/’ she called to
a passing pair of legs. “Some
ice-water in a feeding-cup,
please!”
When Nurse returned with the
water Sister took it and placed
the cup lip in Mrs. Grayson’s
mouth. As she leaned across the
bed the sick woman raised her
hands and pushed Sister’s arms
weakly.
“Come, now,” Sister said.
“I’m sure you’d like some water.”
Mrs. Grayson’s eyes opened
fully; then she made a move-
ment that was, perhaps, an effort
at shaking her head. The dress-
ings round her neck prevented
this. Sister’s white starched arm
shaded the bandaged face,
obscuring her view of anything
except its stiff creases, and the
hard ridge where the sleeve had
been ironed. Mrs. Grayson’s
eyes filled with tears; Sister,
straightened up and removing
the arm, noticed them.
“Oh, dear,” she said, “you
mustn’t cry.” She half-turned
and saw Dr. Pendlebury coming
through the ward entrance. Still
{Continued on page 34)


The Department of
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING
DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in
a wide range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in
touch with up to date methods and modern trends. Home
study courses will open up new interests and enthusiasms as
well as lead to
Efficiency Promotion Success
Any person, other than those of school age, who by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability. CANNOT ATTEND Technical College classes, may
apply for enrolment in any one or more of the following
courses:—
Art.—Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing, Freehand Draw-
ing, Dressmakers’ Art, Display
Card Writing, Ticket Writing.
Commerce. —Bookkeeping, Com-
mercial English, Commercial
Principles, Accountancy, Audit-
ing, Commercial Law, Income Tax
Law and Practice, Banking,
Finance and Foreign Exchange,
Cost Accountancy, Company Sec-
retarial Practice, Economics.
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial
Correspondence, Shorthand,
Typewriting.
Local Government. —Local Gov-
ernment Town and Shire Clerks’
Certificate, Local Government
Auditors’ Certificate.
Public Health.—Health Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
Surveying.—Certificate Course.
Public Examinations.—Specific
tuition is provided for the fol-
lowing public examinations: Cer-
tificate Entrance, Qualifying Ex-
amination (Degree and Diploma
Courses) N.S.W. University of
Technology and Department of
Technical Education; Inter-
mediate and Leaving Certificates;
Matriculation to University of
Sydney; Nurses’ Entrance;
Police Entrance.
General Education.—Correspond-
ence instruction is available in a
comprehensive range of subjects
at Secondary level, 1.e., approxi-
mately from Ist year to Leaving
Certificate standard. Pull details
may be obtained upon applica-
tion.
Building' Trades.— Building Con-
struction, Carpentry and Joinery
(Theory, Calculations, Drawing
and Trade Practice).
Electrical Trades.—For appren-
tices and journeymen.
Overhead Electric Linesmen.
Engineering Trades.— Fitting and
Machining, Automotive Mech-
anics, Refrigeration (for appren-
tices and journeymen), Steam
Engine Operation, Steam Boiler
Attendants’, Gas Engineering,
Diesel Engine Operation, Motor
Maintenance (for owners and
drivers of motor vehicles).
Printing Trade s.—Composing,
Printers’ English and Calcula-
tions, Linotype Operation, Book-
binding, Letterpress Printing
Theory and Mechanism (for
apprentices and journeymen).
Marine Engineering. —lst or 2nd
Class Marine Engineer’s Certifi-
cate, Part A.
Sanitation. —S ewer Plumbing,
Water Plumbing, House Drain-
age, Gas Fitting.
Home Handicrafts. —Dressmak-
ing, Millinery, Dressmakers’ Art.
Rural. —Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry
Farming, Sheep and Woolclass-
ing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm
Machinery, Farm Science and
Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Farm
and Station Bookkeeping.
ENROLMENTS MAY BE EFFECTED AT ANY TIME-
INSTRUCTION IS CONTINUOUS THROUGHOUT BACH YEAR
All Trade and Certificate Correspondence Courses follow the same
Syllabus and prepare students for the same examinations as
Technical Coliegre Oral Courses.
APPRENTICES LOCATED IN COUNTRY AREAS, NOT SERVED
BY TECHNICAL COLLEGES ARE REQUIRED, BY TERMS OF
THEIR AWARD, TO UNDERGO TECHNICAL TRAINING BY
CORRESPONDENCE IN THEIR APPROPRIATE TRADE
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and certain other of the above courses.
PERSONS RESIDING IN THE SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA
OR IN A COUNTRY TOWN SERVED BY A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE SHOULD APPLY FOR ENROLMENT IN THE
APPROPRIATE ORAL CLASSES
Fees moderate —Details available on application.
MAIL COUPON FOB SYLLABUS
TO: The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division,
Department of Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the. ..
Correspondence Course.
SURNAME (IN BLOCK LETTERS)
CHRISTIAN NAMES
ADDRESS
Number One grinned apolo-
getically.
“You should have told me
sooner. Why don’t you get your
head down? Sorry I can’t offer
you a drink —we don’t here, y’
know, at sea.”
“Pleased to hear it,” answered
Sherwood. “With that thirty-six
knots up her tail. See you at
dinner?”
Number One nodded. He
left Sherwood outside the spare
cabin.
The Strike Leader stretched
luxuriously, his hands almost
touching the deckhead in the
tiny space. He looked at the
inner-sprung bunk. Great idea
of Brewster’s, this. He was
going to enjoy the freedom from
responsibility. Here, for all the
good he was, he was a pas-
senger, And that he did not
mind in the slightest. He
slipped off his shirt and shorts
and climbed on to the bunk. In
five minutes the soft swishing
of the water outside and the
even rolling of the ship had sent
him off.
When he awoke he noticed a
light burning in the passage out-
side. He grunted disbelievingly
and levered himself up to look
out the porthole. He could just
see the ridged ocean, now white-
capped. The added motion of
the ship told him the sea was
getting up. He lay back on the
bunk and arched his back.
Bloody lovely. All night in this
..beautiful bunk, and all the next
day if he wanted to.
The light outside snapped off
abruptly. Sherwood noticed it,
but without significance. Then
a voice crackled through the
ship’s broadcasting system.
“Crash-darken ship!”
What the hell, thought the
flier. He heard a sudden rush
of feet above his head, and
another in the passages outside.
He leapt from the bunk, groping
for his shorts. He had one leg
in when a figure burst in
through the curtains, cannoned
into him and sent him sprawl-
ing- ....
Sherwood instinctively
grabbed. He hauled the visitor
up to him and stared into the
frightened face of a wardroom
steward.
“What the blazes . . began
Sherwood.
“Sorry, sir,” the steward
gulped. “I clean forgot this
cabin was occupied.” Then his
duty * came back to him.
“ ’Scuse me, sir, the scuttle.”
He twisted from Sherwood’s
grip, clambered on to the bunk
and slammed the heavy scuttle
shut, clamping the deadlight
over it. Then he jumped down
again and faced Sherwood.
“I’m very sorry, sir. I” *
Sherwood was grinning now,
with his pants fully on,
“That’s all right. Tell me—
what’s this all about? Got an
enemy contact?”
The steward smiled back re-
lievedly at the friendly tone. The
face was an indistinct blur.
“Oh, no, sir. Just crash-
darken ship. Emergency exer-
cise. Sometimes the Old—the
captain—orders it. The switches
are pulled and all lights go off.
We have to darken ship then. In
five minutes the lights go on
again. Once he went round the
ship in the motor-boat and
found four scuttles still open.
Once was enough.”
I bet it was, thought Sher-
wood, grinning. Aloud he said
“I see. Then I can relax again.
Dinner at seven?”
“That’s right, sir. Half an
hour.”
“Right,” said Sherwood.
With the scuttle clamped the
cabin became almost instantly
hot. Sherwood waited till the
lights came on, put his shirt on
and climbed to the cool of the
upper-deck. He wandered idly
round her narrow waist, noting
with an almost proprietary sense
of satisfaction that not a chink
of light showed anywhere.
Number One, it seemed, was
efficient in other directions as
well as in his blessed bang-boxes.
Reluctantly he left the upper-
deck for a quick shower before
dinner.
{To be continued next week)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Infonmation Sought
After whom was Broome ( W.A .)
named ?
It was named after Sir Frederick
Napier Broome, son of a mission-
ary, and born in Canada in 1842.
He was in turn a sheep-farmer in
New Zealand, a journalist in London
and an official in Natal and Mau-
ritius. In 1882 he was appointed
Governor of Western Australia, then
still a Crown colony. His governor-
ship was marked by a rapid exten-
sion of railways and other means of
communication, and by an agitation
for self-government which he heart-
ily supported. When in 1890 W.A.
obtained a Constitution, Sir Fred-
erick was transferred to Barbados as
Acting-Governor, becoming in 1891
Governor of Trinidad. He died in
London in 1896.
* * ♦ ♦
Where and how did eisteddfods
originate ?
They were instituted in Wales to
encourage the composition and
preservation of national poetry and
music. Date of origin is not certain,
but an eisteddfod was held at
Caerwys, in Flintshire, about the be-
ginning of the 12th century. There
are records of eisteddfods having
been held in the reigns of
Edward 111, Henry VI, Henry VIII
and Elizabeth I. The festival then
seems to have been discontinued, but
it was revived in 1789.
What were the circumstances of
the expulsion in the ’eighties of Dr,
Chas. Strong, of Scots Church, Mel-
bourne ?
In 1881 Dr. Strong was asked to
explain certain statements which he
had made in an article on the Atone-
ment in the “Victorian Review.” At
first he refused to reply; eventually
he agreed to a resolution which
urged him to make prominent in his
preaching certain fundamental
Christian truths. On August 1, 1883,
he invited to his pulpit in the Scots
Church a Unitarian layman who
lectured on religion and science and
spoke against the divinity of Christ
without protest from Dr. Strong.
After various moves the General
Assembly declared Dr. Strong no
longer a minister of the Church.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
What is the meaning _ of the
chemical term “sublimation’ 1 ’ ?
When a solid is heated and passes
straight to the gaseous state without
first becoming liquid, it is said to be
“sublime.” On cooling the solid
state is reassumed. Sublimation de-
pends on the fact that the boiling-
point of the solid substance is lower
than its melting-point (at atmospheric
pressure). By increasing the pressure,
therefore, a substance which sublimes
can be made to go through a liquid
stage before becoming gaseous. The
advantage of sublimation is that non-
volatile impurities which are present
in the original substance can be thus
got rid of. Sulphur, benzoic acid,
etc., are purified in this way.
• • ♦ «
Something about German air-raids
in Britain in World War I ? Were
the raids by airship only ?
The raids were not, of course, of
the same severity as the “blitz” of
World War 11. The first raids (by
aeroplane) were in Dec., 1914. Next
year Zeppelins (airships) were used
in raids, and during the four years of
the war there were airship and aero-
plane raids. The raids were mainly
on London, Kent, Essex and Norfolk,
but extended as well to the midland
counties and as far west as Cheshire
and north to Scotland. In 1915 and
1916 there were a lot of Zeppelin
raids, but thereafter raids by airship
became increasingly uncommon, as
more and more were being shot down.
The last airship raid was in April,
1918, Raids by aeroplane continued
at increasing frequency from 1915 to
1917 (four in 1915, 16 in 1916, 27 in
1917), but there were only eight in
1918, the last being in June, 1918. By
that time the R.A.F. had established
a definite superiority over the raiders,
and the last five months of the war
were free from raids. In all raids
nearly 1500 people (including Service
personnel) were killed, and several
thousand injured. Damage to prop-
erty and defence installations was
comparatively insignificant.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What is the difference between
woodcuts and wood-engravings ?
In woodcutting, softwood such as
sycamore, cherry, holly or maple is
used. The cutting is done with a
knife and gouges. The knife is held
like a pen, and gives a line V-shaped
in section, which is made by two
oblique cuts. The gouges are like
those used by a wood-carver, but only
five or six inches long. The work is
done along the grain, which is used
to heighten the effect of the design
wherever possible. Wood-engraving
is done on a block of hardwood,
usually box, which is cut across the
grain. The cutting is done with
gravers and scorpers very similar to
those used in metal engraving. They
are solid in section, not hollow on
their upper surfaces like a gouge, and
the front cutting-face slopes back-
ward at an angle of roughly 45deg.
Brief Answers
G.P.: The elemental spirits or angels
of the elements were pantheistic con-
ceptions. The spirits of fire were the
salamanders; of water the undines; of
air, sylphs; and of earth, gnomes.
They were supposed to dwell in their
respective elements. Paracelsus wrote
a treatise on them L.J.S.: Block-
up holes in the pantry so that the
mice cannot get in, and cover or
close-up all foodstuffs so that they
find nothing to eat. Set several small
break-back spring-traps every night,
changing the baits occasionally
G.T.; Aluminium may be used safely
for all cooking. As in the case of
all other metals, the utensils must
be kept scrupulously clean by light
scouring, and no food should be
allowed to stand overlong in them,
as the metal is easily ruined by acids.
Soda should never be used on
aluminium, as it causes pitting
R.McK.: The use of birdlime for
trapping birds is illegal in N.S.W.
H.T.M.: Louisa May Alcott was
born in Pennsylvania in 1832 and
died in 1888. Her principal works
are Little Women; its sequels Good
Wives and Little Men. Before this
she wrote Hospital Sketches, Aunt
Jo’s Scrapbag, and Jo’s Boys and
How They Turned Out. .. .D.McL.:
A fortified wine, such as port,
madeira, frontignac or sherry, will
retain its condition up to a month
after opening, provided the bottle
is kept corked. Dry wines, such as
burgundy, claret, hock and chablis,
should be consumed within 48 hours
of opening the bottle G.W.1.:
Write to the Registrar, Principal
Probate Registry, High Court of Jus-
tice, the Strand, London. The cost
will depend upon the length of the
wi11.,. .N.M.: (1) You are liable if
you are negligent in your driving, or
if you are negligent in keeping the
car in order and know that there is
a particular defect which results in
injury to the passenger. (2) Again,
you are liable for the negligence
outlined above. The third-party
policy applies to the bowler-
passengers K.M.: The orange-
tree you planted last March would
have lost a big proportion of its
fibrous root-system during the winter,
and when the stress of spring growth
and fruiting began food- and water-
supply was not adequate and the tree
declined (as stated). There seems
little prospect of the tree prospering,
and it would be better to replace it
with another tree planted early in
February. Make sure it is watered-in
well and protected at first from hot
sun or winds. If, on the other hand,
you wish to persevere with the
present tree, cut it back hard and
reduce the resultant risk of sunburn
by whitewashing the trunk and limbs
where exposed. Water-in about 4oz.
sulphate -of - ammonia to stimulate
quick growth. If the tree has not
declined too far this treatment may
revive it Naughton: Unable to
find source of quotation, or (in any
book of reference) anything re-
sembling the quotation itself. The
N.S.W. Public Library also has no
record of it. We think it more likely
that it is an American Civil War
remark, and that you wrongly attri-
bute it to a British monarch.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary ,
T.E.R.: Hardly worth noting; most
bandits have a taste for feminine
society in their leisure hours....
N.S.M.: Your efforts are sincere, but
neither of the sketches comes within
cooee of acceptance... .J.8.R.: A
very muddled outcry against the
boredom of a sheltered existence
G.A.: Your diffidence is justified.
Such scrappy sentimentalities are not
for u 5.... R.W.: The blight of dull-
ness is over it... .N.8.A.: Too ab-
surdly trivial for print D. 8.: Style
immature and story improbable
T.W.: Did you ever see a buck-
jumper in action? M.E.8.: Don’t
want anything “dashed off on the
back of a handbill while waiting for
a bus” R.F.T.: Have doubts
about your hero who “traces his
descent from Robert Bruce” 8.T.:
Merely a meandering sequence of
digressions... .W.McN.: Read it
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
twice —haven’t laughed yet....G.R.:
Your suspicions are confirmed. It
didn’t survive S.T.M.: Your
treble-crossing detective story is too
complicated to be convincing
H.A.S.; Why don’t you write of the
life you see about you? M.S.: Try
themes that are not so trivial. You
have the knack D.J.C.: Very little
point in it G.S.: One of them
feebly echoes O. Henry... .V.L.R.:
It may be a good treatise on copra,
but it’s not a good story.,. .D.R.H.:
Your characters are as unnatural as
their conversation J.N.: Artificial
and melodramatic L.G.E.: Your
first item marked “Original” has been
going the rounds for 40 years. The
others are possibly a little younger.
... .T.A.: Elegy on frog does credit
to your humanitarianism at any rate,
....C.5.8.: Have a heart! Your
voluminous and riotously underlined
screeds remind us of Queen Victoria’s
diaries P.S.M.: Ripply along
pleasantly enough, but hardly worth
the space it would take D.M.F.:
Mad old prospectors are at a dis-
count... .S.J.P.: We smiled through
our tears when it ended happily....
F.W.: The point of the story is all
right, but the framework is weak....
W.8.C.: Not sufficiently graphic; you
don’t give the reader the impression
of being there... .L.N.S.: It fell at
the last hurdle after knocking one or
two previous ones J. 0.: Susan’s
views on the evils of King’s Cross
didn’t arouse much enthusiasm
E.K.: A good night’s rest would have
been more beneficial....A.M.B.:
Dad’s adventure with the Jersey calf
left us unmoved N.C.J.: You are
one of the last of the sturdy race that
writes on both sides of the paper
E.H.: The moral is all right, but
there’s no other merit S.M.F.:
Your coiner yarn is very unconvinc-
ing F.E.J.: Even a young man in
love doesn’t talk like that... .A.F.:
Superior attitude of narrator jars
S.T.C.: Do we think you’ll ever be
a short-story writer? If the enclosure
is a sample of your workmanship, no.
....8.J.: Rejected by the Religious
Editor as being too much like a
sermon W.V.: “At Mortdale there
is a large railway shed.” Statement
accepted; but the rest is incredible.
... .P.M.: Not humorous enough to
carry off the unbelievable situation.
.._. .L.H.: No use for matter which
has been printed elsewhere M.R.:
Reads, and looks, as if you composed
it on the post-office counter....
W.T.E.: Whatever your aim might
be, you miss J. 8.: Not bad by
any means, but the topic begins to
look threadbare... .M.H.: Practical
jokes on apprentices have nearly all
been worn to death... .E.J.8.: The
plot is doubtless new to you, but it is
quite an old one R.A.: Your cat
is walking back on her own and will
be in time to welcome the Queen.
J.L.: Reads like a long walk on
an empty stomach A.F.T.: There’s
no sap in that tree P.S.: “The
Homing Pigeon” soars well in spots,
but on the whole he soars too long.
D.S.H.: You add nothing newlo
what poets have written on the sub-
ject of clouds and rain 0.W.:
Something there, but you have a long
way to go G.L.G.: Doubt whether
it would “appeal to our readers”; it
certainly doesn’t appeal to us.


Adelaide-Sydney Overland
Meet the Grasshoppers
By MABEL WALN SMITH
NOT until we were disem-
barking from the Nellore
in Adelaide did I give
thought to the grasshop-
pers. What with brushing-up my
knowledge of the Chinese lan-
guage via the stewards on board,
and jovial evenings with the
ship’s officers, whose guests we
were for the cargo-voyage down
from Sydney, these ’hopper pests
threatening more than 15,000
square miles of Australia’s pas-
tures had entirely slipped my
mind.
“Look out for ’em. Grass-
hoppers are hungry!” shouted
the skipper now, as our small
green motor-car swung down off
the deck on to terra firma, and
we climbed into it and headed
towards home, overland along
the Murray and Murrumbidgee
rivers.
Leaving the sea-shell coast-
road shining whitely behind us in
the hot sun, we turned off to-
wards Renmark, through semi-
arid country, the sea-breezes be-
hind us, a still, blazing morning
ahead, with nothing to refresh
tbe eye. ‘
Then, after hours of grim
travel, with feet heat-swollen and
faces burnt red, we suddenly
struck the irrigation route. Lush-
green spread out on every side:
the tender green of very young
grapevines, the solid green of
older plants, showing the pleasant
Australian way of pruning,
which differs from that of the
Rhine River valley in Germany,
where we had lived to see vines
cut back to produce one bunch
of grapes only, strong for wine-
t o°
to return B to ’South Australia
to return to South Australia
during harvest season.
Ac
orppri
Md wfw»Tl; ffr m dkS
resemhlimr thp nnp in Snnthpm
whnrTwl
Sli whln m Thn
Smp til?,? dLI?.
ed
pale grapefruit and yellow
emons amongst waxy green
rXed°L S nnw L
S whL I It
r w ° 3 a f S ’
way to the 50-acre fruit-section
?n PI St C H h W • bCen 1 6d
nf Pnl nr.
rirvnht 1 ;!, \ w
1 i?rnrp nl bU f “HrndPi’ hark
towards!the grasshopper ic ,
w’i don L ,
a l es ,3°^ k up i j f Ca 5 * TT lin
HrpA 1 tn'
dred and ten degrees hv, e t -
da X; , . f ..
We drove on to the i -
section about lunch-ime,
hustled hospitably unde
roof and revived under a bush-
shower, then given “ eic
pure orange-juice, our nost ana
hostess sticking to me coia oeer
they preferred.
“Good health to your oranges
and peas,” we toasted them after
hearing how the green peas,
planted adroitly between their
young trees and harvested by
itinerant pickers, gave a steady
April-to-October crop whose
proceeds covered “tucker” and
£3-an-acre charges for water
and high-spray irrigation equip-
ment Two more seasons of
back-breaking peas and their
orchard would be seven years
old, full-bearing.
“If no pest like your grass-
hoppers scalp us! ” they smiled,
The sun went down, a dust-
storm blew up, and we were
thankful not to be camped under
the open sky as we would be
during future nights. Trees
crashed in the darkness, old
pea-plants slashed round the
bungalow, and the windows
rattled as red dust came in
through everywhere on to us and
the food. The neighbors, hastily
summoned by farm-phone to
celebrate our visit, settled down
to eating cold meat and salad
as if grit on the menu was the
least of a fruitgrower’s worries.
the temperature dropped to a
pleasant level, and everyone pre-
dieted that henceforward our
motoring would be in comfort-
able summer weather.
Nobody even mentioned the
grasshoppers next day, as toe
rolled along the peaceful Murray
River road. The old Boer War
soldier, rearing his white ducks
on the willow-hung lake where
we picnicked, was full of con-
tentment. His only concern was
possible “night fowl-marauders.”
Thieves, of course. For these he
kept a hidden supply of broken-
bottle necks, sharp chunks of tin,
and hunky rocks.
here’s no sweeter tempta-
tion f’r beasts or humans than an
innocent young duck,” he said,
showing me his ammunition
against larrikins and shooing his
eager drake robustly away from
a graceful flock of slender-
necked virgins launching them-
selves smoothly out for a sail on
the water. A broad mother-duck
waddled placidly from behind
the old soldier’s humpy, trailing
fifteen balls of fluffy yellow duck-
lings going on their first voyage.
Delighted, they dived in, skim-
• § - ’ i u a
Drowsing in the cool shade,
ygt aware of a haonv gentle
y e , , l 7 vwP y ’ g j
bubbling sound which signified
T 7 i hat m 1° f
T tbere * be grass bes | d
me ! 1 op ? n ® d m y e y es to the
a w he r OnG
l irgm - f UCk ha i separated from
her WHS dra^ mg
near the drake, who was calling
softly to her from the seclusion
0f p °°-u beautiful by
swaying willow-brandies. Going
to meet her his feathers a well-
groomed white, us wattles a
IUS7l US 7 red ’ he br u Ushei i hIS , Str P I JP
+ b ,f ak against her fragile bill,
f 6? hls , th l. ck neck
d ®Jy °^ er ber onc -
demu [ el y b ° w ,f d ;
a f o^ d t? 11 ” 1 th f S
mto the bower of willows, where,
coyness on her part, gallantry
on bis ’ bobbin ,S an d dod S ing
uadern ® atb a " d abov ® water,
wings tip-touching and flutter-
! n 8 m ecstasy, they began their
honeymoon.
We did not camp that night
at Mildura as formerly planned,
even though it was the end of
Q ur usual hundred-and-fifty-
miles Tun> because of an
atro cious murder we had heard
about. A New Australian with
£7O in his pocket had been
travelling from one fruit-picking
j° b to another when murderers
overtook him in the darkness
while he slept on the banks of the
lovely Murray here. They bat-
tered bim deatb ’ arid ’
™ u t llatin B “is faithful dog, left
d barely alive, hanging from a
tree m a sack.
Camping in such a spot was
more than I could contemplate.
I trembled with conflicting emo-
tions as we drove away ...
“Just like a woman!” sput-
tered my tired husband as,
further on, in a marshy forest
near the Murray, miles from
any human being or help in case
°f need, I calmly settled us for
the night beneath a spreading
gumtree. “We’re the perfect sub-
jects for murder here!”
My nerves at peace, I listened
to the sleepy call of birds at
dusk. After that came the hush-
time when the day-life has settled
down and the night-prowlers
have yet to awaken. Soon filter-
ing moonrays came through the
red gum-trees. White-plumed
herons fluttered softly about the
soundlessly flowing river, the
movement of their wings like
music. A bittern boomed near
by. There came the haunt-
ing trumpet-call of flying swans,
The magic of the Murray night
enfolded us.
Dawn revealed a profusion of
birds. Green parakeets, drab
brown sparrows, blue king-
fishers, yellow robins, crested-
pigeons and plover sped in and
ou t of the trees, while solemn
black crows keeping their dis-
tance looked on. Long-legged,
gre y-waders with scarlet beaks,
Sted about this marsh of
t b e flooding river. A pelican
was t h er e. Black swans sailed
elegantly among the reeds,
Rose-and-grey galahs swept in
flocks through the sky. Here,
on the borderline of States,
were the many birds we had seen
taTouth Australia added to those
belonging to Victoria. All day
we lingered in this sanctuary
among these woodland feathered-
folk, resting from such pests as
murderers and possible grass-
hoppers
PP
Many campfires further on, I
woke one morning in a caravan-
pa to the voice of a stranger
talking to my husband. Peering
out a crack in our tent I could
oul , cr , “f ou t, *
see them boiling the billy, so I
lay qUKtly wa “” 8 ° r my
cup °I tea>
Our guest, I gathered was a
wharfie on holiday: comfortable
loose-hung belt draped round his
paunch for decorative purposes,
wh ii e a stout pair of braces held
up his trousers; an almost new
hat tipped over his beetling brow.
H is strong purple-veined hands
tha t had seldom known leisure
hung at his sides, and his heavy
bod y squatted for smoke-oh near
the fire.
“Yah. So yVe from Sydney,
young feller. You can have it,
that b city! Last holiday
1 had m y fill of it * Took
m i ssus an ’ m y d a ughter an’ her
s i x .y ear - o l d son—my only grand-
son—all on a trip up the sea-
coast by bus-tour to see Sydney.
g us hf, re s caught us beyond
g ega . bloke drivin’ the bus
whizzed us off the road an’ into
a big shallow pond. Pigs wal-
lowing there disappeared about
the t f me we jumped from our
seats into the muddy water. Felt
good) that water, after all the
smoke we ’ d been through. After
a while a policeman came an’
ordered us on to the road again,
j looked up then an’ that damned
bus was just swarmin’ with pigs,
s ittin’ in the seats, skiddin’ on
the floor, hangin’ out the
windows.
“Say,” he asked, “have you
ever tried to make pigs get any-
where they didn’t want to go?
Haulin’ ’em by the ears, kickin’
their behinds, or coaxin’ ’em?
Took most of the skin off my
hands—the passengers weren’t
n 0 go od at it, the driver was
man ceuvring the bus out of th’
mud. When we reached your big
c i ty , I was in no mood fer gan-
derin’ it. Just got the family on
to a train an’ back home again.
This year’s holiday is bein’ taken
i n a small caravan, away from
an y wharf, mind you, but an-
chored in this one place. So 1
know where I am. Sydney?
Pigs last summer, ’hoppers this
summer. Not on your b
life!”
He swallowed his “cuppa” and
left us.
At Narrandera we met the
Murrumbidgee River. Charmed
by its white sands and luxuriant
sweep of trees, we lingered
swimming in the quiet, deep
water; visiting the open-ditch
irrigation area and canning fac-
tories ; hoping to see in action
the R.A.A.F. plane which had
arrived ahead of us to spray
the grasshoppers, said to be on
the move and due here at any
moment.
“That plane’s ready, waiting
her chance,” explained the pilot,
in swimming with us. “She’s
loaded with B.H.C. [benzene
hexachloride] mixture. When the
wind drops—probably tomorrow
morning—we’ll go up and cruise
round at a hundred-and-seventy
miles per hour, then swoop to
thirty-eighty feet above ground-
level and start producing an
aerosol, a fog. In this is the
poison. The rate of application
is two gallons of mixture, equiva-
lent to one pound of insecticide
per acre.”
“Why spray the crops? Why
not locate the swarm of ’hoppers
and kill them direct?”
“Sometimes we do. But they’re
difficult to locate within plane
areas. A helicopter would be
ideal.”
Anticipating my next question,
my husband told me: “D.D.T. is
not effective against grasshop-
pers; D.N.C. leaves yellow
stains causing plant injury, re-
ducing growth by half. Hand-
sprays are possible, so are
machine-dusters, but dust is ex-
pensive and water is often
scarce.”
“Poison arsenic bran-bait,” I
said quickly. “A nice mash laid
down. That’s what I’d use.”
The men looked at each other.
“Scarcity of labor and shortage
of bran,” said the pilot patiently.
“Also, animals eat the mixture
for the molasses, and die from
the arsenic.
“Here,” he added, “is the
present recommendation: One-
and-a-half pounds of twenty p.c.
B.H.C. powder per hundred-and-
ten pound bag of bran. Mixed
dry, then into a crumbly mash
with ten gallons of water. Acts
within a few minutes. Swarms
wiped out in a day. Non-poison-
ous to man and higher animals.
In spite of all evidence to the
contrary, the unjustified objec-
tion is ‘insectivorous birds are
wiped out.’ So try and make
landowners use it!”
He turned to the invariable
group of small boys on the river-
bank awaiting his bronzed emer-
gence from the water, and ob-
ligingly pitched his voice to
please his audience:
“Last week the plane had
luck. Scouted a swarm of
’hoppers taking off up near
Forbes, and let’em have it! Cut
right through the half of ’em.
My word, was there a hopping
up and down when the poison-
juice hit ’em! Ten minutes and
they had flopped to the ground,
full of tremors, staggering round
sideways like old men. Dead
and dying everywhere . . .
That’s the way we’ll treat ’em
here. Some about due next few
hours,”
He eased himself on to the
bank, taking a squint at the set-
ting sun, the boys crowded
round . ..
I went to bed early, to be
fresh for the coming daybreak
slaughter.
Daybreak came. But no
plane went up because by early
morning a circus had pitched its
tents near the showground ; an
escaped tiger found sleeping on
a local child’s bed had been shot
through the nose by an irate
father; things were topsy-turvy,
with the tiger in hospital, not the
child ; and everyone who could
was leaving town. Including us.
Our road lay through Forbes.
Mid-afternoon one day we
lounged along full of ice-cream
cones, my husband at the wheel,
when, “smack!”, something hit
the windscreen. A grey cloud
appeared ahead, hazy and drift-
ing at first, then straight for us
they came. The grasshoppers.
We were in the midst of a
two-mile swarm of them, on the
wing and hungry.
“Grey backs with brown
stripes, silver bellies and red
legs,” I shouted as one flung
itself upon me. Several struck
me in the face, one landed in my
mouth, and many were down the
back of my frock before I got
the car-windows shut. They
were thick in my husband’s hair,
and thick on the back-seat, thick
on the clothes we kept on
hangers there. He slammed on
brakes. We drew up in the ditch.
Tight inside the car, we
flailed with scarves, newspapers
and hard leather-gloves. But
how to scoop dead bodies out
the door without letting further
marauders in?
No use stopping here. We put
the car on to the road again.
Perspiration ran down our backs,
made soggy our seats. Yet what
to do? If we let in any air,
’hoppers came with it; if we kept
out air we suffered from in-
tense heat.
“Keep those windows closed,
no matter!” my speeding driver
snapped as he caught me experi-
menting.
Scarcely able to see, we dashed
along trusting we’d meet no
cars . . . Country folk know
when to stop in the house, off
the roads.
The cloud of grasshoppers
grew thicker. They stripped a
field on our right, another on our
left. They battered themselves
against our duco, spattered our
windscreen, and smashed on to
our chromium. The water in our
radiator started boiling; insects
were getting caught in our
radiator-grill, a great clotted
mass of them, blocking off air
the engine needed, frying them-
selves crisp on the engine.
We lurched to a stop and my
husband jumped out with a
double-length of mosquito-net-
ting in his hand. This he lashed
across the radiator as an insect-
screen. Then, throwing in the
car-clutch, away we went, with
me battling the ’hoppers that
had joined us during his exit
and entry.
Finally, driving like mad,
crunching at times over a solid
coating of one-inch-long insect
babies crawling on the road, too
young to fly, we escaped from
even the ultimate ragged-edge
swarm-followers. Holding our
noses closed then against the
awful acrid stench of those loath-
some bodies, we had a clearing-
out of the maimed and the whole,
alive and dead . . .
Not until a hundred miles
further on, however, did we
come across the last of our
damage. Camped in the
mountains behind Bathurst, I
was taking a packet of clean,
white linen handkerchiefs from
the pocket of my coat carried on
its hanger in the back of our
car. One by one as I drew forth
these handkerchiefs they fell
into a lacy pile. It was in-
credible. No more handker-
chiefs, just rags of material with
holes bitten in it!
“Must of been starch in ’em,”
elucidated the current sun-
downer, sharing our breakfast
of stream-caught fish. “Starch.
That’s what them pests you was
tellin’ me about like best to
eat.” He whistled up his rabbit-
dogs and collected his billycan,
ready to depart. “Lady, any-
body can see by them holes in
what was some starched hand-
kerchiefs you was not lying.
Too right, you’ve met the grass-
hoppers!”


GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Euphrates, a five-year-old
stallion by imported Midstream
from Chancel, picked out early
as a potential stayer because
his bloodlines pointed that way,
hasn’t been given much racing.
His best performance was in
Brisbane last August, when he
easily beat Hydrogen and Earl-
dom in the Queen’s Cup, 1£
mile, in course-record time,
2.28 i. This is close to Pal-
fresco’s 2.2? i Australian record.
Euphrates now has reached peak
form. After easily landing a
mile race at Rand wick on New
Year’s Day he cantered away
with last Saturday’s Rosehill
Handicap.
The stable has set Euphrates
for the £10,500 Queen Eliza-
beth Stakes (lim.) at Randwick
on February 6. Euphrates is
related to several stayers and
bred on the same lines as Delta
(Melbourne Cup and £46,807 in
stakes). Shannon, True Course
and Bankstream (Sydney Cup).
Chancel, dam of Euphrates, is
a Magpie (imp.) mare from
Chaptrel (imp.) by Son-in-Law
from Neuve Chapelle by Sunstar
from Prim Nun by Persimmon.
At his first start the two-
year-old grey colt, El Cabello,
nearly won at Rosehill, going
under to the favorite Bruleur.
El Cabello was handy to the
lead all the way. He is a son of
St. Magnus (imp.) and Macaria,
and cost 850gns. as a yearling.
A hard race for heavily-
weighted horses is a Sydney
Graduation Stakes. The speedy
Birdwood, winner of the First
Welter at Rosehill on Saturday,
had failed with 8.11 and
with 8.8 in Graduation
Stakes company, but had
won in the same class with 8.4.
With an allowance claim of 71b.
for apprentice E. Sheather, the
Delville Wood (imp.) stallion
carried only 31b. above the
limit at Rosehill, and it was no
wonder he was made favorite,
Birdwood will probably con-
tinue to race in Welter com-
pany and later in the month
might contest the A.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes.
The £10,500 Queen Elizabeth
Stakes, 1£ mile, to be run at
Randwick on February 6, has
double drawing-power in the
prospect of the winning owner
meeting the Queen and the stake-
money. Her Majesty will leave
the course shortly after the main
event. The race is to be run
under quality conditions with
topweight 9.5 and lowest 7st.
Weights will be issued on
January 25. Carioca, Hydrogen
and Raconteur should provide
strong opposition to New
Zealand and inter-State horses.
Sydney racegoers may see New
Zealanders Mt. Denby, Bos-
worth. Gold Scheme and Red
Jester in the line-up.
Committee of the Sydney Turf
Club is putting on a weight-for-
age event worth £l5OO on
January 23 at Rosehill so that
horses engaged in the Queen
Elizabeth Stakes 14 days later
will not be forced to race in
handicaps under heavy weights.
The distance is furlongs,
good lead-up to the mile and a
half at Randwick.
The day after nominations
closed for the A.J.C. Challenge
Stakes (Jan. 30) and Anniversary
Handicap (Feb. 1), Raconteur
was made favorite for the sprint
and Carioca for the longer race,
though weights will not be avail-
able until next Saturday night.
Punters who take doubles before
handicaps are available are
super-optimists. The day after
entries closed there were exag-
gerated reports of keen betting
on the double. Shrewd punters
seldom take chances before
weights are issued.
Beau Son was represented by
a brace of winners at Rosehill,
Biff in a two-year-old flutter for
fillies and Bel Ange in the
Auburn Stakes. Biff has started
three times for two seconds and
a win. The filly’s dam. Miss
Hua, is by Hua from La Rasade
by Tippler (imp.). Biff was in ex-
cellent trim, and Cook rode her a
heady race. Appalachian, dam
of Bel Ange, is a Manitoba
(imp.) mare, who wasn’t raced.
Bel Ange, a 725gns. yearling in
1952, has in the family lines
winners in England, U.S.A. and
Canada. He could win in much
better company.
Sydney “Sun’s” London man
reports a race; Lucky Basket
dawdled at the start at Ripon,
Yorkshire, races when the rest
of the field was away. Her
backers, at 25 to 1, groaned.
That was just her fun. She
tossed her head, and was off in
pursuit of the other seven
runners. Soon she took the lead.
Her backers cheered. But
that was just her fun, too.
As the field turned into the
straight. Lucky Basket turned
right around and galloped back
the way she had come. Her
rider pulled her up. She was
rubbed out for fife.
The improving two-year-old
Pinjarra narrowly won the
Juvenile Stakes at Caulfield. He
is trained by Jack Fryer, of
Wotan and Skipton fame. Cost-
ing 350gns. as a yearling, Pin-
jarra is by Blue Moon, a Blue
“You made a comeback, all right— to the dressing-room!”
Peter stallion, and his dam. Gal-
lant Girl, is by Kinderscout
(imp.) from Silver Wind by
Windbag from Silver Sconce
(imp.) by Battle-axe. Third in
the Caulfield sprint was the
Helios two-year-old colt. Tran-
quil Sun, a son of the noted
mare Tranquil Star.
The aged Prince o’ Fairies
added another £2OO to his stake-
earnings when third at Caulfield
to Sunish and Royal Pageant in
the Inkerman Handicap, The
gelding has accumulated £26,205
and is fourth on the list of active
stake-winners to Hydrogen, San
Domenico and Carioca, but San
Domenico probably has run his
last race,
• • • •
V.R.C. committeeman G. R.
Nicholas saw his colors carried
to victory in successive races at
Caulfield .by Arabist (7 to 4) in
the Rowena Welter and Mishna
(15 to 1) in the Normanby
Handicap.
Pressman started favorite for
the Normanby Handicap, but
ran much below form. He had
won at the same track at his
previous start, and was expected
to prove one of the day’s best
bets.
• • • •
“M.A.S.”: Old Rowley,
winner of the 1940 Melbourne
Cup, dropped dead at Merriwa
(N.S.W.) on New Year’s Day.
As a reward for winning the Cup
the owner-trainer, J. A. Scully,
retired Old Rowley to Wood-
lands, Merriwa, the property of
J.A.’s brother, Dan, to spend the
rest of his life in a green pad-
dock, no saddle ever to be put
on his back again. Dan Scully
died of heart-failure at Merriwa
on New Year’s Day, 1945.
Woodlands was sold, and Old
Rowley transferred to another
green paddock at John Shannon’s
property, Wyndham, Merriwa.
J. A. Scully died suddenly while
in Melbourne for the 1948 Cup.
That’s how it goes!
• • • •
Leading Sydney jockey Sell-
wood is getting away from his
nearest rival Moore, in winning
rides this season. Sellwood’s
win on Port Moonta at Rosehill
sent his total to 37 against
Moore’s 34. The latter had a
slight lead earlier in the season.
Cook, on 14, is third, with Mc-
Growdie and Camer each on
13. Any punter who had fol-
lowed the three top riders
would have shown losses on a
£1 straight-out basis up to £l7.
Finding of a battery on a
jockey at Bunbury (W.A.) last
week earned him disqualification
for life. There was an unsuc-
cessful search of jockeys in a
Doomben event last Saturday.
It is as hard to get rid of a
battery unobserved as it is to
destroy traces of dope. But
still they come at it —and still
they get rubbed out.
♦ * *
After Hoad had won the
Queensland, N.S.W. and Vic-
torian singles tennis titles it was
suggested that he might equal
Adrian Quist’s 1935 record, five
titles in one season. But Hoad’s
Army call-up stops him from
playing in the Australian cham-
pionships in Sydney. Anyhow,
the American Trabert stopped
the run, beating Hoad, 6-4, 6-2,
6-2, in the S. Aus. singles.
There is little between Hoad
and Trabert, as their marathon
Davis Cup match showed. In
Adelaide it was Trabert’s day,
Hoad may not have been at his
top, though that does not detract
from the American’s win.
Hartwig, who beat Seixas in a
quarter-final, was able to take
the first two sets from Hoad in
their semi-final. In the other
semi-final Trabert easily dis-
posed of Rosewall, after having
beaten Rose, last year’s SA.
title-holder, in a quarter-final.
Trabert played well throughout;
Hoad and Rosewall each took
only eight games from him.
The Rose-Hartwig team won
the doubles title from Hoad-
Rosewall, last year’s S.A. doubles
winners, 6-2, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. The
Queensland, Victorian and S.A.
doubles finals have all been be-
tween these two pairs, Rose-
Hartwig winning the lot, which
plainly makes them the better
combination.
Rose and Hartwig arrived in
Adelaide from Melbourne after
the championships had started,
and so had to work overtime to
catch up. They consequently
found the going in the early
games, both singles and doubles,
a bit tougher than usual. Which
doubtless accounts for them
having to survive a match-point
against them when playing a
pair of comparative unknowns
early in the piece.
Some recent doubles results:
Hoad-Rosewall v. Trabert-
Seixas (final N.S.W. champion-
ships) 6-3, 3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5.
Rose-Hartwig v. Trabert-Seixas
(semi-final Vic. championships)
6-8, 6-4, 6-2, 5-7, 6-2. Hoad-
Rosewall v. Trabert-Seixas (semi-
final S.A.) 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. Rose-
Hartwig v. Hoad-Rosewall (final
S.A.) 6-2, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. Hoad-
Hartwig v. Trabert-Seixas (Davis
Cup) 2-6, 4-6, 4-6, after the
L.T.A.A. selectors split the
Australian pairs.
“Kooyong”: In the early days
of tennis there were the redoubt-
able brothers Renshaw, and
brothers Doherty, of Britain, and
the not - quite - so - prominent
Wrenns (of U.S.A.). The Ren-
shaws played before the Davis
Cup; the Dohertys early won
the Cup for Britain (1903), and
held it for several years. In 1903
the doubles were between two
sets of brothers, the Dohertys
and the Wrenns, the former win-
ning. Now, in the more limited
sphere of Ballarat and district,
there’s another pair of brothers,
the Mayberrys, Reg and Tom.
They’ve recently fought out the
local singles final for the sixth
successive time. Tom won this
year, and each bruvver has now
won it three times. They won
this year’s doubles, too.
* * *
With the Sheffield Shield pro-
gramme half completed, N.S.W.
has two outright and two first-
innings wins; Victoria two
outright wins and an outright
defeat (by N.S.W.); S.A. an
outright win, an outright defeat
and a first-innings defeat.
Queensland has lost all its
matches. On Friday the Hassett
testimonial starts at M.C.G.,
and the following Friday (Jan,
22) the Shield round resumes—
Victoria v. Queensland in Bris-
bane,
Keith Miller’s sporting
closure gave Queensland a
chance to win against N.S.W.,
but the Northerners didn’t even
try, though 250 in 150 minutes
was at least worth attempting.
Mackay, a useful chap to have
in a side, but never known to
have a go, was sent in early in-
stead of an aggressive bat like
Raymer or Ron Archer.
• • • •
Raymer, a bowler primarily,
has been batting well lately,
particularly in helping to save
follow-ons. Against S.A. in
Adelaide and against N.S.W. he
helped stave off the follow-on,
and top-scored both times (84
and 63 not out). The 63 in-
cluded a mighty six—off Lind-
wall!
Richie Benaud, making handy
scores since he first played for
N.S.W. in 1950, seems to be
batting better than ever,
Queensland skipper Ken
Archer says B. is “the hardest
hitter I’ve ever played against.”
Against Queensland this year
Benaud made 158 and 144 not
out, both innings in good time
and both when N.S.W. was in
a spot.
Two “third Tests” were lately
concluded. In S’Africa the local
boys made a draw of it with
N.Z. after having to follow-on,
facing the highest score N.Z.
has ever made in a Test, 505
made though the last three
N.Z. wickets fell without a run.
South Africa won the first two
Tests. In India the Common-
wealth side won, to make it one-
all, the second Test being a
draw. Playing a big part in the
Commonwealth’s win was
cricket’s mystery man, Jack Iver-
son, who cast up in India only
a day or so before the game
started and went out to take
4-78 and 6-47.
“Bosey”: A Victorian side, a
“second eleven” more or less,
containing a couple of former
Shield players, went to Tas-
mania, played two games, drew
the first and lost the second to
Tassie. This may not compen-
sate the Speck for the loss of
Tatt’s; still, it’s a feather in the
cap, for it’s the first time for
more than 20 years that a Tassie
XI has beaten Victoria.
“K.R.”: Neil Dansie, in his
130 for S. Aus. against Victoria,
dominated a few partnerships
when the bowlers came in. With
Drennan he added 50 (Drennan
4) and with Horsnell 52 (H. 13).
However, in the N.S.W.-Q.
match played at the same time
there was an even more one-
sided partnership —Benaud and
’keeper Trueman, who put on
52 for the last wicket. True-
man’s contribution was a single.


'
ii
\\
m ■ n
m
s
dpek^pr
|ol
CLOTHES
\)ail&iedfrom
CrusaberCloth
K suit that fits, and fits comfortably, is
naturally what every man wants and
NEEDS. For many years it was only
possible to obtain such a suit by the old
yet very sound method of visiting a
tailor. That meant, naturally, careful
measuring, try-ons, more try-ons, and
eventually you had your suit.
In an endeavour to provide those who
wish a suit PRE-TAILORED, READY
FOR SfiRVICE, Stamina, ten years ago,
set out to virtually master-tailor a suit
that any man COULD and would be
happy and proud to wear.
Using an exclusive Pure Wool, Crusader
Worsted Cloth, Stamina has produced
for you a De-Luxe Suit in Double-
breasted style, at a price that makes it
an economy for you to buy NOW.
This is certainly a value-wise man’s best
buy, and there is a size to fit you. There
is only a limited supply, so call in as
early as you can.
ASK FOR
Stcunina/r ,J-
u&puus
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER CLOTH
59.113
The FISH REDEEMING
By GEOFF BINGHAM
MR. RANKIN esteemed
esteem. Success he did
not so much care for,
since some fair measure
of esteem had come his way.
Settled in Wirril Creek as
schoolmaster with a comfortable
and tidy home, a comfortable
and tidy wife, there was little
more he asked of life. Except,
perhaps, continued tidiness.
Mr. Rankin was noted for
tidiness. He could not abide
disorder in the classroom, and
Mrs. Rankin’s life was given to
keeping the home neat and
clean. Not that she rebelled in
any manner against her
husband’s standards, for she had
come to regard them as an
integral part of God’s universe,
with Percy Rankin, as it were,
the servant of tidiness.
Perhaps Percy Rankin over-
estimated the esteem given him.
Even Mr. Peebles, local-politics
man, thought his friend over-
fussy. Not one small black-
berry-clump could Mr. Rankin
see but he must have it out,
speaking sententiously about
the “influence of untidiness upon
the young lives of our children.”
Out would come the accursed
weed, of course; but the
farmers, the timber-workers and
the teamsters thought the school-
teacher a “proper old woman.”
Which, of course, he was.
When the first Rankin baby
arrived it was commonly said
that Rankin had had it. He
certainly fussed enough over it,
knew how to fold a nappie, what
was the right temperature for the
milk, what was wind and what
was not —and the rest, and per-
haps it was over the matter of
the baby that his esteem began
its decline.
Yet Rankin, in his own way,
was a good fellow. It was simply
perhaps that he was a school-
teacher ; that is, a schoolteacher
in every corpuscle, every vein,
artery and organ. He fussed, he
nagged, he irritated, he foisted
himself upon people’s minds by
his persistence, and no one cared
to talk him. down, had anyone
been able. So that in his own
way he had earned himself that
regard of the people which he so
highly prized.
And such an esteem can build
a man’s ego, can assure him
that he has the most of fife tied
up in a small parcel, a nuggety
swag on the end of a stick,
carried about, never to be relin-
quished, the envy of many, and
the very justification of
existence.
And so it might have gone on
for ever had it not been for
fishing.
r' was strange that Mr. Rankin
should have been attracted by
fishing. Most men find in fish-
ing a great relaxation of mind.
It gives them time to think. It
is, in a way, a medicine, purifying
the spirit whilst it also stimulates
or heals. None of that Mr.
Rankin desired, so sufficient he
was in himself, so rarely was he
visited by subjective speculations.
Yet the same teasing bait that
has lured on many a man had
also for Mr. Rankin a fearful
fascination.
One afternoon Mr. Rankin,
after tidying up the school and
marking a trifle of homework,
had stepped from the ochrous
department building, and, about
to put a long lean leg over his
pushbikej noticed a boy padding
along in the thick red dust of
the highway. The boy should
long ago have been home, but,
his head forward, his feet scuffing
the warm stuff of the road, he
was trudging merrily.
“I say, young Terry,” Mr,
Rankin called in his after-school
voice, “you are a bit late, aren’t
you?”
“Perch,” said Terry Hickey in
a proud voice. He held up, for
the schoolteacher’s inspection, a
fine specimen of a fish.
“You didn’t catch that?” said
Mr. Rankin, amazed.
“Now just didn’t I,” said
Terry, his eyes glowing. ‘‘And
with a worm, what’s more.”
“With a worm,” breathed Mr.
Rankin.
“You can get ’em,” said Terry,
the light still in his eyes, “if you
try.” He seemed then to have
forgotten Mr. Rankin, as he
remembered again his tussle on
the bank of the brown pool.
And in the same moment a shaft
of light had penetrated to the
murky depths of the Rankin
soul.
“I can’t believe it, Terry,” he
sgid, shaking his head.
“Oh, well,” said Terry, and he
plodded on his way, making even
larger puffs of the scuffed dust.
And that had begun in Mr.
Rankin a spurt of desire which
was fated to become a fierce
passion.
SO fierce was the passion that
it led him to extremes of
extravagance. Normally a
person who totted-up his petty
expenses, and made much of
income, capital expenditure and
the like —as though he relished
sums out of school as well as in
—he changed suddenly to making
purchases of a reckless nature.
For example, he bought long,
shining, black waders, these pre-
sumably for fishing, and a gleam-
ing creation of a rod such as a
fishing man dreams of, believing
it to be his final reward in
heaven. Other equipment, too ;
nylon lines, hooks of every shape
and dimension, cunningly turned,
and floats, and a creel which
could never be even one-quarter
filled, and a reel with every
gadget upon it, and a thousand
other things designed to entice
and ensnare the agreeable fish.
Perhaps it was her husband’s
purchases which began the ques-
tioning of her Percy within Mrs.
Rankin’s heart. Hitherto she
had been blinded by his magni-
ficence, his omnipotence, as it
were, his ability to accomplish
what he set out to do, his rare
passion for tidiness, his fierce
eye upon the wayward napkin,
or the dead flowers in some half-
forgotten vase ; for Mrs. Rankin
had ever been her husband’s best
pupil. Now she noticed that his
clear-headed outlook on buying
had become somewhat fuzzy.
She almost gasped as one fishing
thing after another came into
the house. And what she
noticed, more than anything, was
that never a fish did her hubby
catch.
Percy Rankin thought that a
strange phenomenon also. Hav-
ing picked up a little here and a
little there of the art of fishing
he had set out with great hopes
of filling his creel on his first
attempt. As the locals could
have told him, none could have
accomplished that, so few being
the fish in the creek, but Mr.
Rankin never asked anything of
t h e locals. He instructed them
always, and would have been
surprised if they had pointed out
his lack of knowledge in the art
of fishing.
Yet the terrible truth was that
the fish mocked him and all his
grand equipment. Doubtless they
had many a finny quiver, many
a watery chuckle as they peered
upwards at the lank creature on
the bank. Fussy little minnows
tickled his line, nibbling at the
bait, and very fine bait it was
too, long juicy worms from the
tidy Rankin gardens. Mr.
Rankin, when he saw his float
bob, and the water shiver, would
quiver with excitement and
hastily try to jag a fish, but not
even a minnow lost his self-
respect over the elongated
schoolteacher.
And so Mr. Rankin, though
undefeated, was powerfully dis-
appointed. The blame lay with
the fish, not with him. He read
more advertisements and played
into the hands of the vendors,
for the fever was still upon him.
But Mrs. Rankin could barely
conceal her amazement. She
found, too, to her positive delight,
that she could leave nappies lying
about without her husband
noticing. In her newly-released
condition she was apt to go to
the extreme of contempt for her
man. He had never caught a
fish; he was a fusspot. She left
flowers in vases until they
withered, and often neglected to
dust out a room, always with a
half - guilty, half - triumphant
feeling.
The rot spread in Mr. Rankin,
At school he would be caught
by periods of abstraction. In
the midst of long-division he
would forget the task in hand.
The children were amazed, but,
like Mrs. Rankin, delighted.
Feet of clay in the shining
splendor of their tin-god, A
certain amount of silent chiack-
ing. Untidiness, and, what is
more, scarcely noticed. A fall-
ing-off in intensity of teaching,
Terry Hickey, cunning child,
knew the weakness of his
teacher, and he would forge the
most incredible accounts of fish-
ing. Perch of unbelievable size.
How they had flown to the line
of his father. How Lash Thor-
good had brought in a beauty of
six pounds up at Brown’s Wash.
“Brown’s Wash, did you say.
((Continued on page 34)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Story of the Kremlin
It’s no mere palace, but a
city whose massive walls en-
circled all 12th-century Mos-
cow. Under the Czars any
peasant could enter —now it’s
barred to all save top Reds.
January Reader’s Digest
takes you on a tour of the
Kremlin. Here' are great
cathedrals with golden
domes, jewelled crosses . . .
the lovely church Ivan the
Terrible kept uncopied by
gouging out the architect’s
eyes . . . the late Czar’s
rooms, preserved exactly as
he left them.
Also in January issue
"How to relax,” “Revolt of
the overdressed male” and 29
other stimulating articles
condensed from world’s lead-
ing magazines and current
books. Reader’s Digest—l/6 at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE ANZUS ARGUMENT
EVEN now the last has not
been heard of the Anzus
Treaty. It hovers, not altogether
remotely, in the background of
the Royal Visit.
In the recurrent argument
over it, wholly provoked by
Britain’s exclusion, the most em-
phatic statement on the British
side has been Sir Winston
Churchill’s pronouncement in
the House of Commons: “I do
not like the Anzus Pact at all!”
On this, London “Times”
commented that Sir Winston was
“not alone in that view”; it
added, however, that “some of
those who share his distaste are
not always very rational about
their reasons.”
Presumably it had in mind
what a general sampling of
British Press comment indicates
to be the main cause of com-
plaint : the exclusion is offensive
to British pride.
“The Times,” professing to be
above that natural-enough sort
of reaction, claims that its own
motives in joining the objectors
are somewhat higher; simply,
the pact is all right temporarily
in its limited way, but it needs
widening to bring in not only
Britain but the other countries
facing the Moscow-cwm-Peking
threat; in short, a Pacific Nato.
“The Times,” in fact, sug-
gested that the Chief of the Im-
perial General Staff, Field-
Marshal Sir John Harding,
made his visit here mainly to-
wards bringing about something
of that kind. It put its case in
support thus;
“This country [Britain] has —
or ought to have —no quarrel
with the United States, Australia
and New Zealand for having
joined together in a local security
pact originally designed to
counter the long-term threat
from a rearmed and vigorous
Japan. Australia can claim, in a
very real sense, to represent
Commonwealth as well as Aus-
tralian interests in the South
Pacific, and since the United
States has in the past set its face
against direct British participa-
tion in the pact there has been
something to be said for accept-
ing the situation with the best
possible grace.
‘The real objection to Anzus
is not that it offends London’s
dignity but that by its existence
it may block the introduction of
any wider collective-security
arrangement in the Far East de-
signed to meet urgent problems
of today and tomorrow rather
than hypothetical situations in
the remoter future. Communist
China, not Japan, now domi-
nates, and will continue to
dominate, the Far East’s hori-
zons, and by no stretch of
imagination can Anzus be con-
sidered the proper organ, politi-
cal or military, to deal with this
threat.”
The idea that Communist
China, not Japan, will continue
to dominate the Far East situa-
tion might strike Australians and
New Zealanders, and maybe
Americans, as a rather restricted
bit of crystal-gazing. Most
observers, viewing the rate
already of Jap rearming and
such indications of revived
nationalism as the Japs’ rising,
and savage, anti-Americanism,
are careful to emphasise that
Japan offers no immediate
threat.
In more main editorial com-
ment “The Times” has carried
the argument further by con-
tending that the pact, admittedly
all right when it was made, has
become out-of-date;
“The criticism which can
fairly be made of the Anzus
machinery is not that it includes
the United States or that it ex-
cludes Great Britain, but that it
is limited and imperfect, and
may therefore stand in the way
of some arrangement more
suited to Pacific requirements.
“There was good reason two
years ago why the Governments
of Australia and New Zealand
should... . seek an understand-
ing with the United States. Both
Dominions had suffered at the
hands of an expansionist Japan,
and feared that the terms of the
peace treaty with Japan made a
renewal of this threat possible.
It would have been hard for their
Governments to sign a treaty
without some guarantee such as
that embodied in the Anzus
treaty. In the last two years,
however, it has become increas-
ingly clear that the main threat
to peace in the Pacific arises
from a movement of aggressive
Communism, backed and often
inspired by the Chinese revolu-
tion. This is a menace which
affects Britain’s possessions in
Malaya, Singapore, Hong Kong
and the Pacific Islands as directly
as anyone. There is justifiable
anxiety that the arrangements
now in force for dealing with
aggression in the Pacific are un-
co-ordinated, and therefore
likely to prove ineffective.”
London “Daily Telegraph”
comment can be described as
much more representative of
British feeling in general on the
issue. It has stated:
“It is hard to understand why
Great Britain should continue
to be excluded from the defence
arrangements concerted between
the United States, Australia and
New Zealand in the tripartite
security treaty of 1951.
“The exclusion is pointless, as
Great Britain would be auto-
matically and instantly involved
in any hostilities in which Aus-
tralia and New Zealand should
find themselves. In such a con-
tingency it may be presumed
that any help we [Britain] could
bring would not be rejected,
and, as we should have to be
brought into any defensive
arrangements then made, it is
obviously commonsense that we
should be brought in now.
“This is no matter of pique.
The British Commonwealth is a
great and enduring reality, and
the unwritten links between its
members are stronger, and have
proved themselves stronger in
the grim test of two world wars,
than any paper pledges between
States outside the British family.
“It appears to be the American
view that if Great Britain were
admitted to the pact other coun-
tries, such as the Philippine Re-
public and Siam, would have to
be included also. This is not
a sound argument. The British
title to inclusion is our [Britain’s]
special relationship with Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. But
this opens up another line of
thought. It may be that the
right course is to enlarge the
pact so as to cover all nations
having a stake in the Pacific.
Great Britain is a Pacific Power
in her own right, and would be
entitled to membership quite
apart from our special Common-
wealth relationships.”
The “widening” process advo-
cated by “The Times,” and Sir
John Harding’s part in it on his
Australian visit, have been
examined in an Edinburgh
New York “Herald Tribune”
THE RAINS CAME
“Scotsman” article by Patrick
Maitland on these lines:
“It is not to the British ad-
vantage that Australia and New
Zealand can become embroiled
in war through the Anzus Treaty
and draw Britain along behind
without proper consultation.
“Sir Winston Churchill has,
therefore, bent himself to the
idea of devising an alternative
Pacific defence-system that
would both safeguard Australia
and New Zealand while recon-
ciling British and United States
interests. Field-Marshal Sir John
Harding [was sent] to examine
with Chiefs-of-Staff [in Australia
and N.Z.] the possibilities of
organising a wider, but wholly
practical, defence system from
the South Pacific to the Burmese
border,
“Several nations would be
involved. The Dhtch share Aus-
tralia’s anxiety about New
Guinea. The French are in-
stalled in New Caledonia, east
of Australia, whence the Ameri-
can South Pacific Fleet operated
against Japan. There is general
anxiety, shared by the United
States, about the war in Indo-
china. Siam is unsure, though
the Malayan campaign has died
down.
“What is in prospect is a de-
fence arrangement to bring in
Malaya, as a direct United King-
dom responsibility, together with
French Indo-China, Siam, con-
ceivably Indonesia, Holland,
France, Australia, New Zea-
land and, if possible, the Philip-
pines. If such a combination took
effect it would to a considerable
extent parallel the Anzus Treaty,
which in the British hope might
then wither away.
“Such, at least, was the pros-
pect suggested by Mr. Menzies
and Mr. Holland when, as
Prime Ministers of Australia
and New Zealand, they con-
ferred with Sir Winston
Churchill after the Coronation.
Indeed, it was upon their invi-
tation that the Prime Minister
agreed to dispatch a senior
officer.....
“Mr. Menzies has made it
clear that, while he is keen to
see a South Pacific regional de-
fence-system take shape, he can-
not picture it embracing Japan.
It has to be remembered that in
the Australian and New Zealand
recollection Japan, not China,
is the enemy. The Anzac
Dominions only signed a lenient
peace with Japan on the promise
of an American counter-guaran-
tee which took shape in Anzus.
“Now those countries are
being brought to face the crisis
of the present hour, the relent-
less expansionism of the Chinese
race, controlled by the strongest
central Government that country
has known for many years. In
making it possible to block
Chinese expansion, these coun-
tries would be making a Japanese
reconciliation, and trade, with
China more feasible and, in the
last resort, giving the American
plan for Pacific security a dif-
ferent twist.”
One point slightly touched on
in that “Scotsman” survey (and
implicitly dismissed) is mostly
overlooked altogether in British
comment: the mention of how
the pact actually came into
being—that is, as what amounts
to an American guarantee to
protect Australia and New Zea-
land against aggression in the
Pacific area (from any quarter,
it should be noted), the condi-
tion being Australian and N.Z.
agreement to the American-
arranged peace treaty for Japan.
It was, in fact, not something
dictated by the U.S. (the view
obviously widely held in Britain)
but something conceded by the
U.S. to satisfy Australian and
New Zealand requirements.
The Oil Find
London “Spectator” makes a
cautious appraisal:
“Australia, where an oil dis-
covery has set off a gamblers’
boom, is not a place where the
geologists as a whole have ever
expected to find really big oil-
fields.
“Petroleum is the decomposed
residue of marine organisms,
compacted by deposits of mud
and sand o» the bed of primeval
seas, Australia has four ‘sedi-
mentary basins’ where the series
of processes necessary to form
an oilfield might have taken
place, and in three of these men
drilling for water have found
traces of oil and gas in the past.
The traces were enough to in-
duce explorers to spend perhaps
£2O million in generally fruitless
searches over the last 30 years
or so.
“The Exmouth Gulf discovery
is in the fourth western basin, a
long coastal strip which runs
southward from North-west
Cape. It is a good well: but
does it indicate a great field, or
merely a prospect of useful pro-
duction on a modest scale?
“A test-flow of 480 barrels
through a iin. pipe in 24 hours
is good, but not remarkable
(though it has never happened
before in Australia). Optimistic
public men are talking big ; that
is their way. The oil-men are
much more cautious, not only
because of the generally un-
promising structure of the Aus-
tralian continent, but also be-
cause they know that one 'test-
well cannot show the size,
character and configuration of
an oil-bearing structure any-,
where. For this, more wells will
have to be drilled... .It will take
many months of work to learn
much more about the Exmouth
field and, say, two years to
organise commercial production
there.
“In the meantime investors
should keep their heads, for
though the Exmouth discovery
is clearly a happy event for Aus-
tralia, the chance of its proving
a Kuwait or a Kirkuk is wildly
remote.”
In Praise of U.N.O.
Quoting the list of high aims
in the U.N.O. Charter, “New
York Times” editorially com-
ments :
“To list these noble aspira-
tions is to call forcibly to mind
how man has failed to realise
them. Eight years have passed
and another war has been
fought; the world is divided as
sharply as it was a decade and
a half ago ; an armament race
of a new and terrible kind, in-
volving weapons beyond imagi-
nation, is far advanced.
“But all of this is a way of
saying that if the United Nations
had not existed at the beginning
of this period the world would
have been in a very much worse
state than it is now. The
United Nations has enforced
collective security; and it is not
necessary to enumerate the
many ways in which it has
worked, and worked success-
fully, to promote through its
diverse agencies and around its
conference-tables peaceful inter-
course and practical co-opera-
tion.
“If in one major segment of
the globe political leaders who
are obsessed with hatred and
blinded by their own power
choose to reject every principle
and every ideal embodied in the
Charter of the United Nations,
that is the tragedy of the world,
but it is not the fault of the
Charter. The ideal of the
United Nations stands ; its pur-
pose is sound ; its practical value
is great. The free world will
continue to abide loyally by its
principles, and there is little
doubt that the ordinary people
of all the world would wish to
do the same.”


PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
VeijMi
realise
that ijom
can buif
a
ttp
CHECK ALL OF
THESE POINTS
The Nuffield "task forte"
TraCtOt (power kerosene)
powered with an engine
developing 43 b.h.p. at 2,000
r.p.m., coil and distributor
ignition with automatic ad-
vance i, electric lighting and
starting, 12-volt battery, 5-
speed gear box, 4 steel wheels ,
fronts, 30" x 5", rears, 55" x
9" with spade lugs.
Standard Equipment
includes draw bar, belt
pulley, hour meter, chaff
screen and sponge rubber seat.
For as little as • £S57 f
for as little
as 5.857
NTH .24
Optional Pneumatic tyre
equipment to the same
mechanical specification, 6.00
x 19 front, 11 x 36 rear, £935
or with 7.50 x 18 front and 11
x 30 rear, 600 lb. incorporated
in each rear wheel £1,119
Optional extra equipment:
Power take-off £l4/18/-.
Hydraulic lift and power
take-off unit, with six-way
power providing a variety of
applications £99/18/-.
The Nuffield range Includes Diesel-
powered models and row-crop models
with twin front wheels.
df
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Woles: PITER UOYD LIMITED. Victono,
KEIIOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Oueenslond: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LlMiitu.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
,AUSTRALIA) PIT. LTD.. VICTORIA PA.K, JOYNTON AVENUE. ZETLAND'
French President
The complicated nature of
the French Presidential job is
indicated by the spate of ‘‘ex-
plaining” articles in the British
Press referring to the election of
long-odds outsider M. Coty to
the seven-year-term position (M-
Coty himself did not get a men-
tion in any single one of the
pre-election lists of prospective
candidates).
As explained by “Manchester
Guardian,” the Presidency is the
nearest Republican equivalent to
a constitutional monarchy:
“As with constitutional
monarchy, the weight it carries
depends on circumstance and on
the character of the man who
holds the office. One theory has
it that when Parliaments are
fractious and Governments weak
the Presidency’s power is almost
automatically enhanced.
“That there is truth in this
has been obvious throughout M.
Auriol’s tenancy. Coalition
Governments often leave some
play to the influence of the head
of the State, and often need that
influence if they are to be
formed and kept together. The
Governments of the Fourth Re-
public have needed it more than
most; their component parties,
hemmed in by hostile Com-
munists and (until very recently)
Gaullists, have had to contend
with differences among them-
selves differences strong
enough to pull them apart from
time to time but seldom clear-
cut enough to make for lasting
alignments. In these circum-
stances much of the responsi-
bility for keeping France on as
even a keel as possible, both
between Cabinets and within the
life of each Cabinet, has fallen
on M. Auriol.
“The Presidency is again like
a constitutional monarchy in
that its holder is usually ex-
pected to be at once a political
figurehead and an embodiment
of the national virtues.”
“There is still a tendency, even
in France,” explains London
“Daily Telegraph’s” Paris
correspondent, “to regard the
President’s day as being devoted
to opening exhibitions or public
works, presiding at parades or
charity performances and, for
light relaxation, delivering long
speeches at the end of gargan-
tuan banquets. Such estimates
are both uncharitable and un-
true.
“The Constitution of the
Fourth Republic greatly en-
hanced the position of the
President, so that today he is not
only the supreme magistrate and
the arbitrator in all political dis-
putes, but also, owing to the
manifold defects in the Consti-
tution, the one stable element in
French political life. There are
many Frenchmen who believe
that this last aspect is by far the
most important.
“The President presides and
takes an active part at Cabinet
meetings instead of passively
assisting. He also has to recon-
cile the conflicting views of the
Ministers at these meetings—no
easy task in a series of coalition
Governments.
“He must also keep the closest
watch on the mood of the
Assembly. President Auriol had
an apparatus in his study which
enabled him to hear debates.
“It is the President’s responsi-
bility to find a solution to the
interminable crises which have
marred French post-Liberation
history. Only by being in the
closest possible touch with
opinion both in the Assembly
and the country could a Presi-
dent have known, as M. Auriol
did, that a somewhat colorless
and unknown candidate like M.
Pinay was exactly what most
Frenchmen wanted as Premier at
that moment.
“The President is also the
guardian of the Constitution,
and will have to watch carefully
the current negotiations between
France and the Associated States
of Indo-China.”
While the post is the nearest
republican equivalent to a con-
stitutional monarchy, London
“Spectator’s” Paris correspond-
ent comments that the analogy
with the King or Queen of Eng-
land h J in man 6 y
respects very misleading:
. The Presidents office was
indeed modelled on that of the
first of constitutional monarchs.
But first of all it was modelled
on the constitutional monarchy
of the early 19th century when
"De Gazet van Antwerp.” Belgium
OLD TRICK, NEW VERSION
the divinity that doth hedge a
king had not yet become a bar
to all political action. Secondly,
he is an elected politician with
long experience from the inside
of the working of the Parlia-
mentary machine. Thirdly, the
French multi-party system and
instability of government Create
situations which British
monarchs have rarely or never
to fclCO
“Thus the President presides
over and participates in all coun-
cils of Ministers (although he
does not vote). Under the new
Constitution he is responsible
for having the minutes kept and
for their safe-keeping. The Presi-
dent is also the chairman of the
Committee and the High Coun-
cil of National Defence, of
the High Council of the Judi-
ciary and of the High Council
of the French Union. He fills
these duties effectively and is
thus present during seven years,
not only when nearly all the
important decisions of the
French executive are taken, but
participates in the discussion that
precedes them.
“In these circumstances the
President would have to be a
man of singular obtuseness and
inexperience if his opinion was
to carry no weight in the coun-
cils of the State. But though
the characteristics which make a
good French Premier are not
those which make a good French
President, all Presidents, with the
one exception of Marshal Mac-
Mahon, have been men of long
political experience, frequently
as Speakers of one or other ot
the Houses of Parliament. They
have not to make the acquaint-
ance of politicians as visitors to
their palace. They know them
all extremely well from the start.
They are often as skilful in
political manoeuvre as imy of
the candidates for office from
whom they have to select the
next Prime Minister.
“It is in this task that a
French President’s function is
entirely different from that of a
British Sovereign. Whereas there
is usually only one candidate
for office when a British Premier
resigns and that candidate has
been mainly responsible in caus-
ing the last Government’s down-
fall, there may in France be
half a dozen men with equal
claims to the Premiership, and
those who have done most to
cause the crisis may be quite
unable to solve it. Although
the President of the Republic
has to consult the Speakers of
both Houses of Parliament and
the leaders of all Parliamentary
groups before making his selec-
tion, he more often than not has
to make a real choice. It is rare
in French politics that a man
is the obvious candidate.
Further, the chances of success
of a would-be Premier often
depend on the moment in a crisis
at which he is sent for. If he is
given his chance too early it
may be tantamount to refusing
it to him altogether,
“These powers, however, can
only be successfully exercised
with great tact. The President
must never appear to be a rival
to the Prime Minister or to be
flouting the will of the electorate
as expressed in Parliamentary
elections. Jhe French political
system requires for its working
a more brutal functioning of
personalambition “ »
power to keep the wheels turn-
mg than does the British. For
this very reason it requires that
one highly skilled politician shaU
be content to sit in a gilded cage
above the melee, content that
the power and influence he exer-
cises shall be seen as little as
possible, that he shall appear to
have no opinions of his own and
that he shall be content to make
the endorsement of other
people’s signatures his main
apparent activity.”
Trade Dictates
A New York “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondent in London
notes that Germany, its eco-
nomy unburdened by defence
expenditures, is beginning to
bite deep into British markets in
South America, the Middle
East and elsewhere.
Then there is Japan, whose
economy has been artificially
supported by the Korean war,
and which must also export or
die.
“These facts,” the correspon-
dent comments, “in part explain
why the British Foreign Office,
hitherto indifferent or even hos-
tile, has suddenly discovered an
an enthusiasm for German re-
armament within the European
Defence Community. The de-
safely o t £e laing a
Chinese marK t a p d
good deal mat na
Com-
British pobcy towards uo -
mumst China.
Dragnet Digest
Armed Japan. U.S. reason
for wanting a rearmed Japan,
noted by “New York Times”:
“Japan was an essential base
for the United Nations’ action
in Korea, but once the Korean
problem has been settled an-
other security system will have
to be found that rests not on
military vacuums, but on a
balance of strength.”
Spanish Alliance—As. it strikes
a Madrid correspondent of “New
York Times”: “The negotiation
of aid-for-bases agreements be-
tween the United States and
Spain has in fact established an
alliance between the two coun-
tries even though diplomatic
language makes vague assurances
to the contrary. The controlled
press of this authoritarian State
is realistic enough to refer speci-
fically to the new ‘ alianza .’ ”
Moussadek Heritage. —“Mr.
Moussadek [“New York Times”
comment] achieved some strik-
ing
morethan mou.
rarily a i ter ed the world’s ml-
duction and oil-distribution
systems , so that for the past year
_ T ran ; an 0 ;i hasn’t been
necessary. No doubt it can work
back into the world
market, after the British and
the Iranians have made a satis-
factory dicker. But the situa-
tion now is that the settlement
is of far more importance to
Iran than it is to Britain.”
The Three Worlds.— I The old
One World of so many dreams,’’
comments a “New York Times”
correspondent, “is, in a sense
and in some particulars, becom-
ing not two but three worlds—
the world of the United States,
the world of the Soviet Union
and, as a third and added
sphere, the somewhat contracted
world of Britain joined by
Western Continental Europe.”
Rubber. —Price-drop effect,
noted by “Manchester
Guardian”: “The mundane fact
that the price of rubber has
fallen to Is. 6d. a pound means
the difference between illiteracy
and literacy, sickness and health,
poverty and prosperity among
almost a hundred million people
in south-east Asia.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Enemies of the Workers?
With nice timing, A.W.U. secretary
T. Dougherty chose the goodwill
season to describe a group of large
employer - associations as “the most
powerful enemies the workers had.”
The employers’ crime was that they had
banded themselves together to combat,
by legal means, N. S, Wales Premier
Cahill’s compulsory-unionism legislation.
Dougherty’s use of the word
“enemies” is significant. The cultivation
of class-hatred is a common practice
among union bosses in Australia. At
first sight that might seem incompre-
hensible. Here we have an almost class-
less society and the welfare State
realised to the fullest extent practicable.
And we have a country in which the
unions are supreme when their own
puppet Governments are in power, and
immensely influential when the so-called
parties of private-enterprise have control.
From all that it would appear that, if
Australian employers are enemies of the
workers, they have been singularly
impotent in their enmity. The truth of
the matter is, of course, that all employ-
ers not qualifying for the asylum want
friendly relations with their employees.
If, however, Australian employers are
demonstratively not enemies of their
employees, why does Dougherty describe
them as such? It is quite simple. The
fostering of class-hatred in Australia
began as a campaign with the entry of
unions into politics. What the Jews were
to Hitler in his pursuit of power, Aus-
tralian employers were to Labor poli-
ticians. That the Jews, like the Austra-
lian employers, did not deserve hatred is
beside the point. Both served a purpose.
It may be noted that, whereas the
hard core of Labor voters support their
party with fanaticism, their opposite-
numbers display a more sceptical spirit.
The former have been given someone to
hate ; the latter must get along on milder
emotions.
Heaven knows what this sordid
political strategy has cost Australia as
a nation, but it must be plenty.—T. J.
(N.S.W.).
Navy Paybooks
Where did the Navy get its “general
payment” system? It is far from satis-
factory. A few hundred matelots fall-in
“Hello, Charlie—have a look and see if his throat's inflamed."
in alphabetical and pay-number order;
the sailor steps up, lifts his lid and gives
his pay-number. The money is dropped
on his cap and the ledger-keeper man-
ages to mumble “mmmmm pounds.” No
signature. No record to take away,
Nothing. It’s all over.
After payment the rating can check
with ledgers, but he is usually met with
“Come back tomorrow,” or “She’s right,
mate, we gave you ten-bob extra this
week.” Never anything concrete to work
out.
A friend, drawing only £4 a fortnight,
was told he was in debt and would get
no pay for three periods. Investiga-
tion showed the Navy owed him £2O, but
he went without for those three pays
and no amount of apology can wipe out
the embarrassment and inconvenience of
an empty pocket.
The paybook is the answer. If the
Army and Air Force can use it success-
fully, why can’t the Navy? With a pay-
book, the sailor would have the in-
formation he is entitled to know —basic
rates of pay, increments, special rates
payable and income-tax deductions. He
could then approximate his own pay.
The only reason why “pussers” does
not adopt the paybook seems to be that
Nelson didn’t use it. — Giris (Vic.).
New States
New-Staters argue that there cannot
be a reasonable comparison between
Europe with its diverse nationalities and
Australia (B. 23 /12/ ’53),
Our own history shows, however, that
Australians can also become very State-
minded. The division of this country
into States caused the building of rail-
ways of different gauges—one of the
worst setbacks to development and de-
fence that the Commonwealth has suf-
fered. Conflicting divorce laws cause
inconvenience and suffering, while public
holidays on different dates for the same
celebration dislocate trade and com-
merce.
The six-hour holiday in N. S. Wales
is fixed by local committees, and its aim-
less wandering over two months of the
calendar for various shires and muni-
cipalities is a good example of why the
granting of authority to local bodies
should be treated with extreme caution.
—Ann (N.S.W.).
Multiple Voting
Multiple voting on the lines proposed
by Nevil Shute (B. 23/12/’53) is not
new. Such a system was instituted in
Belgium in 1894, when the vote was
given to every male citizen—women did
not get it until after World War I. An
additional vote was given to every father
who paid five francs in taxes and had
reached the age of 35, and to every man
of 25 or more in receipt of income from
the Belgian funds of at least 100 francs,
or owning land with a cadastral revenue
of 48 francs. Three votes —the maxi-
mum —were allowed- to holders of cer-
tain diplomas and certificates of learn-
ing and members of certain professions.
When Disraeli drew up the Second
Reform Bill (1867), which extended the
vote to the British artisan-class, various
“fancy franchises,” as they were called,
were included. Extra votes were to be
given to property-owners, persons with
savings-bank accounts, etc. The Gov-
ernment did not command a majority in
the Commons and had to agree to the
deletion of this part of the measure,
Whatever its merits—and a strong
case can be made in favor of it—no
form of multiple voting could become
law in a country which has “one man
one vote.” The parties that would lose
by it—like the Labor party here —would
bitterly oppose it. As only a minority
would be entitled to extra votes it would
have no popular appeal, and even a
party likely to gain by the change would
be reluctant to advocate it. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
A select voting class implies the
existence alongside it of what amounts
to, or could develop into, a slave class —
those thousands not thought worthy of
the right to vote, but who would be
handy for the rough work which must
be done about the place. The present
climate of political thought, which is not
“He's nuts! Says my work's tripe.”
likely to die out in a generation or two,
would not tolerate that sort of thing.
Yet, if votes are to have any real
meaning as far as the country’s progress
and development are concerned, some-
thing will have to be done about:
The voter who votes solely because
he has to.
The voter who votes for Bloggs
“because he has such a nice face.”
The voter who votes Liberal or
Labor or what-have-you because his
father (or her husband) has always
done so.
The voter who votes differently at
each election, because he believes in
“giving everyone a go.”
The voter who deliberately (or ignor-
antly) makes his vote informal.
The Irishman who “never votes to
keep a Government in power.”
I don’t know what is to be done about
these people, but until something is
done candidates and parties will con-
tinue to get rewards inconsistent with
their merits or demerits. —Wollundry
(N.S.W.).
Flying Doctor
The annual report of the Queensland
Division of the Flying Doctor Service
notes that operational costs are now ss.
per mile as against Is. per mile in the
early days. The division is proud of its
25 years’ service to the outback, “pro-
viding a medical curtain of safety, par-
ticularly for women and children,” but
the burden of buying expensive modern
aircraft is becoming too much for it.
The precedent created by the Northern
Territory Medical Service cannot bp
ignored, and the Federal Government is
to be asked to buy new ’planes.
There was an increase of £4704 in the
total cost of the service for 1952-53, and,
although there was a surplus of
£10,427 on the year, it is always pleas-
ing to have sufficient in reserve to oper-
ate the service for a year. In a bad
season revenue can quickly decline, and,
if the service does not collect donations,
the State Government does not pay
a subsidy.
With the opening of a base at
Charters Towers, in the basalt country,
emergency landing strips are essential,
and the service may have to put these
down and maintain them. In other
pastoral areas a light ’plane can land
almost anywhere in an emergency, but,
for safety, in the basalt country heavier
’planes are required and these are
expensive.
During the year the service paid over
£24,000 for ’plane hire. — Outback (Q.).
Import Restrictions
I agree that import restrictions were
necessary (B. 7/10/’53), but would add
that the recent easing of quotas will last
just so long as we take heed to our own
rate of production. Tariffs might bring
about a similar result, although we know
that once a tariff is imposed the chances
are that it becomes a fixture. It should
not be overlooked that import restric-
tions, unlike a tariff, do not increase the
price of the imported goods—except
insofar as the local manufacturer takes
advantage of scarcity.
Strangely enough, although importers
raised a hue-and-cry over quota restric-
tions, they have had little to say about
the crippling effects created by an ad-
verse exchange. This discrepancy be-
tween currencies hits importers and their
customers, regardless of whether or no
goods are essentials or luxuries. If we
consider the inflated costs of many types
of farm-machinery— costs which hit the
enterprising farmer to a far greater
extent than his less progressive counter-
part—land-clearing equipment and tools
of trade generally, we arrive at some
idea of the extra millions of money piled
onto costs by our juggling with exchange,
xhere js also , u d
kaowledge: educational and technical
die m many msiances pnceu
the o£ those who
would derive most benefit from their
use. And as taxpayers we cannot over-
look the 25 p.c. which has to be added
to interest charges on overseas debts.
Tariffs can—or at least should —dis-
criminate in their incidence, and on the
whole I believe they have been imposed
with due regard to giving our industries
reasonable protection. There are, no
doubt, cases where, after an industry is
on a sound footing, its protection could
well be tapered-off.
When the U.K. depreciated its cur-
rency in relation to the dollar, “Labor”
missed an opportunity to bring the £A
to parity with sterling. New Zealand,
as far as one can gather, has had no
reason to regret appreciation of its cur-
rency. Isn’t it time Australian importers
and their customers pressed for raising
the value of our owfi currency?— Dives
CTas.).
Lawrence Hargrave
It would be interesting to know if, as
H. A. Lindsay implies (B. 6/l/’54),
Lawrence Hargrave was the first to
experiment with curved surfaces. I have
seen the statement made, but not proved,
or, indeed, documented, and for that
reason did not repeat it in the article
Lindsay mentions.
My own impression is that there were
several men in the field, working more
or less independently. Hargrave first
began experimenting with curved sur-
faces, I think, in 1892. These experi-
ments opened a larger field for research,
resulting in his cellular kites.
But Otto Lilienthal, who was killed in
1896 after making over 2000 successful
glider flights, is generally credited with
first demonstrating the lifting-power of
curved surfaces. —J. F. (N.S.W.).
Double-space It
Contributors to these pages, as well
as to the rest of “The Bulletin,”
should double-space their lines,
whether using pen or typewriter.
If you do that you give your con-
tribution a good chance; otherwise
the odds are against it.
Double-space the lines, leave a
margin top, bottom and left-hand
side of each page. And number the
pages.


Sustenance and Survival
I can’t see just what “Historicus”
(B. 16/12/’53) is driving at. His dis-
sertation on the effects of soil-decline
and of pestilence, warfare, etc., on
population don’t get anywhere —except
to conclude in praise of Incan com-
munism.
Actually, to quote Peru as the
“brightest exception” to the general rule
of soil-deterioration is nonsense. Peru,
which did support a large population in
Incan times, has more poor ground than
good today.
I know that the soil loses its fertility
if crop after crop is taken off and noth-
ing at all is put back. With primitive
peoples the land usually retains its
goodness and is able to support com-
munities for thousands of years simply
because everything that comes off it is
eaten locally and all waste, in whatever
form, is put back into the ground again.
Not so with us today, when produce
from the country is brought to the city
and consumed there or exported over-
seas, and never gets back to the land
whence it came. No wonder such land
tends to become impoverished, though
impoverishment can be forestalled to
some extent by fertilisers.
The ancient world provides one such
good example of soil-exhaustion —Libya
and North Africa, granary of Rome in
the days of her empire. There the land
was despoiled into the desert it is today
by Rome’s exactions —thousands of tons
of wheat each year, representing all the
goodness of the soil, and absolutely
nothing done to replace this lost fertility.
Where there is little food exported
there isn’t much soil-decline. Meso-
potamia and the Indus and Hwang-ho
valleys supported large populations for
thousands on thousands of years, city
built over city, empire following empire.
And today those valleys (with the excep-
tion of Mesopotamia) are still fertile.
The standard of living in those areas,
both in ancient times and today, was
and is pretty low. (Though the town-
dweller of Mesopotamia of old appears
to have usually had a full belly.) A low
standard of living is due to over-
population, poor social organisation,
foreign oppression or some such cause.
It doesn’t necessarily follow that the
soil on which impoverished populations
live is itself impoverished.
In my previous article I wasn’t really
concerned with preservation of soil-
fertility. I stated that Australia’s food-
production is not what it should be,
mainly through board-control, an inept
transport-system, failure of land-settle-
ment schemes and political pandering to
the rural vote. — Keima (Q.),
Ownership without Responsibility
Nineteenth-century capitalism was, in
a sense, more democratic than the
modern version (B. 9/12/’53). True,
there were fewer shareholders, but the
ownership of a few shares in a public
company by many people does not, in
reality, make for democratic control.
These small shareholders have no more
than a very nominal say in determining
the policy of the business. The real
“If you MUST drink the stuff, Ambrose, please go in the saloon-bar .”
authority is in the hands of professional
directors.
Before the days of limited liability
there was far more individual respon-
sibility. Even a small shareholder with
only a minor part of his capital in-
volved in a bankrupt company might
be ruined through creditors having the
right to irqpound shareholders’ full
resources.
Since limited liability became law an
investor has only to spread capital in
small amounts through a wide variety
of concerns to be safe from financial
disaster. Thus any real responsibility on
the part of the investor is avoided. This
type of investor seldom has any interest
in the businesses into which he puts his
money. His concern is merely for his
own financial security and the rate of
dividend paid.
When the family business was the
predominant form there was often keen
"This is the built-in kitchen —and that's the entrance."
pride in the family firm and a determina-
tion to maintain high standards in both
goods and trading ethics. There was also
a far more personal bond between
employer and employee; many workers
served the same family for generations
and had an almost hereditary right to
their jobs.
In the huge modern concern many
shareholders and employees have little or
no contact with most of those officially
listed among the owners. Indeed, they
are unlikely even to know who the bulk
of them are. — Economist (N.S.W.).
The Senate
Senate-reform, of which a lot was
heard but nothing done last year, will be
much in the news again this year. There
is general agreement, even among the
majority of Senators themselves, that
reform is vitally needed.
The Senate is no longer fulfilling the
role the Founding Fathers intended it to
fulfil —namely, to safeguard the interests
of the States, in particular the less popu-
lous States. (This is the reason why
each State, irrespective of its population,
sends the same number of Senators to
Canberra.) No longer is the Senate a
House “where none was for the party
and all were for the State.” Nowadays
voting in the Senate is purely on party
lines,
The Senate was not intended as an
“Upper House,” like the House of Lords,
or a House elected on a limited
franchise, like a Legislative Council,
But it functions similarly,
In practice it has become either a
rubber-stamp or a perverse obstructer of
government; both reasons would seem
to justify its abolition. Again, it seems
a needless expense on the taxpayer. In
the case of “Labor” Senators, a berth in
the Senate is often reward for service to
“the movement”; but some Liberal
Senators are also mere party hacks.
Still, its total abolition (which is in
“Labor’s” platform) is probably undesir-
able from a national viewpoint. Reform
is needed rather than abolition. The
Senate’s standing is at an all-time
low; the Senate broadcasts go far to
explain why. Most people believe it
performs no useful function, and that its
infrequent sittings are not worth the
expense.
To reform it, the raising of the calibre
of the average Senator is necessary. To
encourage talent, Senators should be
given more constructive work to do,
such as on foreign-affairs committees and
the like, and they should be brought
into closer contact with the electors. To
this end Mr. Menzies’s proposal to
divide each State into zones, each to
elect a Senator, is a good suggestion.
A reduction to the pre-Evatt number
of Senators is also desirable. Another
sensible step would be to change the
present electing system (proportional-
representation), under which “dead-
locks” or “near-deadlocks” are inevit-
able. Something on these lines should
be done very soon. — Roscoe (Vic.). v
Butter
The claim by the vice-president of the
Queensland Dairymen’s Organisation —
that there was room for improvement in
the present quality of export butter be-
cause Australia was competing with
countries which produced 100 p.c. pure
choicest butter —has been refuted by
J. R. Hunter, district-manager of Norco
Co-operative.
He pointed out that far North Coast
suppliers were being paid for 99.6 p.c.
choicest butter, and added that he knew
of no country which was producing
100 p.c, pure choicest butter. He said
the butter could deteriorate slightly on
the way to Sydney, where it would
possibly be degraded.
Casino Co-operative Dairy Society
manager, C. V. Barker, also came out in
defence of Australian butter, and
claimed that N. S. Wales was producing
butter second to none in the world.
And that in the face of severe drought
conditions. —J. K. D. (N.S.W.).
Desert to Blossom for Whom?
It seems possible that the discovery of
Dr. Ted Bowen, of the C.5.1.R.0., of
an association between abnormal rains
and meteor showers (B. 30/12/’53) may
result in practicable rainmaking. This
is major news for Australia, particularly
in conjunction with reports that atomic
power-plants may make an economic
possibility of condensing salt-water into
fresh- in suitable areas.
In other words, a lot of our arid- and
marginal-areas may soon become habit-
able and productive. This would have
immense effects, internal and external,
which we need to think about now
Inside Australia we can contemplate a
great boost to farming, a chance for
decentralisation without excessive cost,
an adjustment of property values, dis-
putes concerning areas from which rain
may have been diverted, and more dis-
putes in areas where some producers
want rain at a particular time and others
don’t.
Most of all, however, we need to plan
to secure the white people to settle the
new territories which will become avail-
able. Development generally, including
provision of power, transport and other
services, will impose financial obligations
which may require Commonwealth and
possibly American co-operation, and
there could be a simultaneous and wel-
come change in the British attitude on
mass migration to Australia. We shall
need more migrants from Europe, and
perhaps there will be some shift of in-
dustry from Sydney and Melbourne
which could reduce the size of those
over-large excrescences.
All that will mean consideration of
two other factors. One is the effect of
new development inside the continent on
the manpower and money available for
advancement in New Guinea, already an
object of greedy Asian eyes. The other
is the impetus which will be given to
changes in our defence plans.
If we add to the known deposits of
uranium, iron and oil the possibility of
a new rice-bowl in the Northern Terri-
tory, and of great new areas for settle-
ment watered by the ingenuity of man,
we shall have a tempting target for that
half of the world’s population which
lives within a day’s flight of Darwin.
The answer lies partly in effective de-
fence, partly in rapid and satisfactory
white settlement, and partly in moves
to help Asians to better themselves —
inside Asia.
That was probably in Mr. Casey’s
mind when he announced Bowen’s dis-
covery. Australian newspapers didn’t
all report that significant sentence in
Mr. Casey’s statement in which he said:
“I think of our friends in South and
South-east Asia, in which the importance
of the monsoon producing rain at the
right time is of such very great import-
ance for the crops on which the welfare
of so many hundreds of millions of
people depend; they could be the
greatest beneficiaries of Dr. Bowen’s
work.” — In the ACT (A.C.T.).
Prickly-pear
Following the announcement that the
stem-gall-fly had been released in the far
North Coast area to attack crofton-
weed came a report from the
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
that prickly-pear had invaded the district.
According to the report, the pest is
Harrisia cactus, which has faced Queens-
land authorities with the prospect of
a £250,000 eradication campaign.
Paradoxically, the report charges
residents in North Coast towns with
growing all the main types of cactus
pests in their gardens, and says that
people are paying £1 for small pots of
tiger-pear —the deadliest of the pests.
Although the growing of all cacti in
N. S. Wales is forbidden by law, 30
people in Grafton have been discovered
growing tiger-pear.
The report claims that the cultivation
of cactus is also widespread in a number
of other North Coast towns.
It is discouraging to farmers, who
have been fighting a one-sided battle
against crofton-weed infestations, to
know that thoughtless people in the
towns are fostering the spread of the
even more devastating prickly-pear.
Most farmers are hoping the authorities
will deal very drastically with the
offenders. — Sparks (N.S.W.).
Land-hungry Farmers
I don’t hold with taking land from
existing large land-owners, but the
principle whereby a farmer can add
continually to his land is wrong.
Over half the farmers in my district
need more land and others cannot get
land at all, yet as land comes on the
market it is snapped up by large land-
owners or speculators and ready-made
farms go back to a wilderness carrying a
few sheep. It stands to reason that an
established farmer can outbid any young
man just beginning his farming career,
and that is what several seem to do in
every district. The youngsters are
crowded out.
Some restriction should be placed on
;he buying of land —that of need. If a
man has sufficient land to keep him in
comfort and has no children to provide
for, then he should be debarred from
buying land unless he is prepared to
, sell an equal acreage elsewhere in the
district. —J. J. A. (Vic.).


Best-
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
V
os
CM
iu«°
51 1*
ftOVJK
BOH*
W-«W
w%
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
A«y particulars gladly supplied —
Writ, to DAVIS GELATINb S.PO Bra KB).
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Hoi <O5B, MELBOURNE • «AO.
Be. JI2F, ADELAIDE • S.PXD. Be. 768 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O 80. 881. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the
cost of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to
£lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made avail-
able under the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means
are insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science
and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University
of Sydney.
Forms of Application, which must be returned duly completed
not later than the sth February, 1954, and further particulars, may
be obtained from:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rain at Will
“J.P., Jnr.”; A note from
Canberra says that a theory that
meteoric dust in the atmosphere
provides minute nuclei which
triggers rainclouds to produce
excessive rain has been pro-
pounded by Dr. E. G. Bowen,
head of the Radio Physics Divi-
sion of the C.5.1.R.0.
Minister Casey holds that the
theory may be important to those
trying to make rain because Dr.
Bowen appeared to have estab-
lished a close relationship be-
tween days of heavy rainfall and
showers of meteors through
which the earth passed on known
and predictable days of the year.
Each year on known days in
October, November, December,
May, June and July the earth
passes through a stream of
meteors and meteoric dust from
outer space.
These actual days, which are
the same in each year, have been
known for many years.
Dr. Bowen seems to have
established individual days on
which heavy rainfall occurred
almost simultaneously at many
places, particularly in the
Southern Hemisphere. These
days of heavy rain appeared to
occur about 30 days after the
earth had passed through a
meteoric shower.
Though it is pointed out that
these days of heavy rain are “not
found every year in the same
place,” which suggests that either
the meteor showers are irregular
and unpredictable or that the
theory is still in a cloudy stage,
a country as sensitive as this to
the weather can’t afford to ignore
any chances of making rain.
The C.5.1.R.0. is not given to
making rash or hurried state-
ments, and for that reason Dr.
Bowen’s theory (always remem-
bering that it is, as yet, no more
than a theory) is worth watching.
It could, for all we know, lead
to a time when State irrigation
departments will each have a
rain-making branch and rain-
gangers posted in the upper air
as water-gangers are now posted
in irrigation settlements.
New Chicks
“Big Billy”: New chicks need
open range for proper develop-
ment, which comes when they
grow under as near as possible
natural conditions.
Open range builds up health
and disease-resistance, and has
a big bearing on production and
fecundity. It is better to think
in terms of five to ten acres than
two to three acres. Small pad-
docks are quickly contaminated.
The only sound method of dis-
infecting poultry-fouled land is
to rest it for at least 12 months.
Disease is more prevalent on
poultry-farms where space is
limited and only one paddock
used to rear all the young stock.
A start in natural conditions
gives the birds a chance to bear
the strain of modern intensive-
production systems.
Grazing Lucerne
“Jumbuck”: When young
lucerne is Sin. to lOin. high sheep
should be allowed to eat it down
until 2in. to 3in. of stalk re-
mains, The lucerne should then
be given a spell until the flowers
show, and then it should be
grazed down again.
In wet weather sheep should
never be allowed to remain on
lucerne as, apart from doing
harm to the crop, the sheep are
apt to bloat. Don’t put hungrv
sheep on lucerne or they’ll bloat,
too.
For best results from grazing
sheep on lucerne a change of
diet is necessary, and periodically
the sheep should go on other pas-
tures, stubble for preference.
Lucerne-sickness may result if
sheep are kept continuously on
lucerne.
Subdivision of lucerne pad-
docks and rotational-grazing
bring their own good results, but
if haphazard grazing is indulged
in both lucerne and sheep suffer.
Given attention a lucerne-
stand will last for anything up to
ten years in districts with rain-
falls around the 20in. mark.
There are many districts yet to
exploit lucerne as a summer feed.
Crops for Pigs
Crops for pigs can
be grown to supply feed at any
month of the year. Lucerne can
be sown from February to June,
or from Sept, to Oct. Barley,
rye, oats and rape sown from
Feb. to April can be cut from
May to Nov. Cow-peas sown
from Sept, to Nov. will be ready
for harvesting Jan. to April;
pumpkins planted Sept, to Oct,
ready Jan. to June; maize and
millet planted Sept, to Dec., ready
Nov. to May; sorghum, Oct.
to Nov., ready Dec. to May;
artichokes. Sept, to Oct., ready
March to June; sweet-potatoes,
Oct., ready Jan. to June ; man-
golds, Feb. to April, ready July
to Dec.; sown Oct. to Nov.,
ready May to July; potatoes,
sown Feb., ready May to June;
sown Aug. to Sept, ready Jan.
to Feb.
Growing Beef
“Sundowner”: If beef is a side-
line on a small farm conserva-
tion of fodder is essential. Con-
serve two tons of hay for each
breeding cow. This prevents the
wastage of summer and autumn
feed and avoids the danger of
overstocking in winter. In addi-
tion stock, pastures and soil will
be improved.
Market the beasts as young as
possible. On pastures suitable
for dairying sale of calves at 10
months will give the best returns
and the greatest amount of meat
per acre.
Feed the mothers on hay be-
fore calving, which should co-
incide with lambing. After calv-
ing feed hay until the pastures
are sufficient to maintain both
cows and calves. Revert to
hay as soon as the pastures go off
and continue until the calves are
sold.
Market calves before they go
back, even if it means selling
them younger and at lower
weights than desired. Bullocks
should be sold between two and
three years old. They can be
topped off with good hay. In
drier areas bullocks will prob-
ably not be ready until between
three and four years old.
Poultry-runs
“L.C.”: When planning the
poulfry-run build the shed
where there’s good grass all
round it. Use a removable fence
and make the runs in four direc-
tions on four pastures. Worked
in rotation, the grass shouldn’t
be too worn to stage a come-
back.
Growing grass uses up surplus
nitrogen supplied by the fowl-
manure ; limed once a year it
keeps the ground sweet. Where
bare earth can’t be rested for
three months, lime heavily, dig
over, lime again. Leave in the
rough until just before the flock
is put out.
If the birds show signs of
worms use common salt aplenty
for the second dressing and let
it soak into the soil before they
run on it.
Mange
“Barty”: Experts claim
mange is a rare disease, and the
organism that causes a condi-
tion generally mistaken for
mange is of quite another
variety. This matters little to
the animal doing the suffering,
or to the owner who sees a
valued animal going from bad
to worse.
Infection is mainly caught
from vermin—rats especially—
and is passed from one dog (or
cat) to another like fire in
barley-grass. First sign is
usually seen along the edges of
the ears and on the folds of
skin above the eyes. In an ani-
mal with a thick coat the
trouble can spread from head
to tail without much outward
show at first. The skin is harsh
and crusted, the itch intolerable.
Sometimes the animal appears
to be going blind.
Get a bottle of olive-oil and
one or two pounds of sulphur;
mix in a proportion of one of
oil (tablespoon or cup) to seven
of sulphur ; apply with a clean
rag and keep at it. Burn in-
fected bedding. The animals lick
“Now, if you're not good children I'll give
you to the bad man.”
themselves, but the mixture
does good within as well as
without. Of course they look
and are miserable, but you will
soon have a fine healthy animal
again, with a better coat than
it ever before possessed. This
applies to cats and dogs.
Shelter for Calves
“C.A.A.”: In the early im-
portant hours of a calf’s life put
it in a clean shed (free from
draughts) in which there is a
clean, dry bed of straw and hay.
Shelter is also needed in the
paddocks after the calves have
learned to drink. Where several
paddocks are used in rotation
portable sheds are good. Per-
manently-sited sheds should be
open to the north to gain as
much sunshine as possible. In
summer shade will always be
available at the back of a shed.
Provide straw in every shed, and
clean daily and spray weekly
with a solution of dettol, or
similar germicide. An occa-
sional sprinkling of lime will
help to keep floors sweet.
In larger calf-paddocks it will
be worth while to grow small
shelter-plantations of sugar-
gums or cypress. T-shaped
plantations will afford shelter
from all winds and give gener-
ous shade. Plantations should
be fenced.
Garden Compost
“Myrr”: Build the heap in
layers 6in. to Sin, thick, each
layer covered by an inch or two
of animal manure, about £in. of
soil and a sprinkling of lime. The
manure is an activator, but if
none is available use £in, of
blood-and-bone or lin. of urine-
soaked earth ; or super, and sul-
phate of ammonia mixed (two
parts to one), a handful to
each layer.
Build until the heap is about
4ft. high by 4ft. wide; it can be
extended in length as desired,
but don’t pack it too hard, as the
bacteria, which are essential to
the process of fermentation and
decay, need air for their full de-
velopment.
Aeration may be further as-
sisted by driving a stake to the
bottom of the heap and making
holes about 4in. in diameter. In
warm weather, which acceler-
ates decay, turn the heap after
a month or two by reversing the
layers. This will be ready for
use in about a month.
Keep the heap moist but not
sodden, as fermentation cannot
proceed in material too wet or
too dry. The finished product is
best dug into the garden-plots
as soon as it has reached a state
of decay ; left too long the plant
nutrients will be lost.
Agricultural Chemicals
“Torch”: We’ll soon be
largely self-sufficient in agricul-
tural chemicals and thus safe
from shipping and other diffi-
culties, according to Thomas
Conroy, of 1.C.1.A.N.Z., who
says the demand for agricultural
chemicals has increased and
farmers now understand and
appreciate the value of insecti-
cides, fungicides, weedkillers
and animal remedies, and apply
them more effectively.
Co-operation between manu-
facturers and Government de-
partments, and liaison with over-
seas experimenters and manufac-
turers, is greatly improving the
position. During 1953 the great-
est development was in fungi-
cides, and, 1953 being a year of
heavy fungus infestations, new
discoveries came at the right time.
There was the development of
Thiotox for combating black-
spot in pome-fruits, in insecti-
cides there were new acaricides,
such as Elimite for use against
red-spider and red-mite, two of
the worst pests of pome- and
stone-fruits.
Successful use of B.H.C.
sprays and baits against the
grasshopper in N.S.W. was a
The B.W.T.C.
In these days of initials—
U.N.0., D.D.T., N.A.T.0.,
A. A.N.Z.U.S., and so
forth—a person hardly knows
which is which. Now “Where's
the B.W.T.C. ?” is being heard
wherever men are handling
sheep and wool. It means the
Bulletin Wool Type Card, and,
though the publishers didn’t
expect the title to be reduced
to initials, it shows how
popular the card has become,
and how quickly its worth was
recognised.
Priced at 7s. 6d., the
B. gives a quick, clear
and handy guide in the selec-
tion and classification of wool
types, from the coarsest cross-
bred to the finest Merino,
with actual samples of the
various types and concise defi-
nitions of their purpose and
the results that may be ex-
pected from cross-breeding.
The cards are strongly
mounted for shed and yard
use, and their value is so
widely recognised that orders
come in by every mail. Order
early, because the supply is
becoming limited.


£fer
ia
I I imiiffl
The NEW
INTERNATIONAL
UTILITY
wins
every
round
CS”
f
£
H
Improvements built
into the new AR-Line
International 15 cwt.
Utility confirm it as
the champion of the
cruiser weights.
Its power-packed design has been
proved under rigorous “trial by torture”
(International’s test programme) which assures
it has all the punch of a champion for farmer,
grazier or tradesman’s transport.
IT’S A KNOCK-OUT RUNABOUT YOU CAN
PUT YOUR MONEY ON . . .
• The sturdiest utility in its capacity range.
0 Semi - elliptic front spring and “I”-beam front axle
for more road clearance and less overhang.
§ Body and payload ideally balanced —flexibly sprung.
• The roomiest cab on the road.
VIRILE 6-CYLINDER SILVER DIAMOND ENGINE
Cylinder block hardened by the addition of chrome.
Molybdenum Iron exhaust-valve seat Inserts. Extra
compression ring on each piston. U-flex oil rings.
See your local International Truck Dealer or call at the
International Motor Truck Branch In your capital city.
Let us show you why the new AR-Line International
Utility is best for Australia and YOUR best buy today!
SIX MODELS :
Capacities from 12 to 23J cwt.—
incorporating these
NEW FEATURES t
CLEAN, ATTRACTIVE STYLING
makes International Utility sleek
and distinctive —combining the
carrying capacity of a small truck
with passenger car comfort.
CUSHIONED - DISC CLUTCH
provides smoother operation,
longer clutch life.
HOLLEY CARBURETTOR improved
design gives increased efficiency,
economy, serviceability.
TWO-PIECE EXHAUST VALVE
minimizes valve stretch, keeps
valve tappet re-adjustments to
minimum.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES WORKS DANDENONO AND GEELONO
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
PMT 431-36
feature, Phenothiazine is still
the most efficient remedy for in-
ternal parasites of sheep, but
further work is being done in
this field.
In 1954 Queensland will test
aerial-spraying of brigalow-
scrub with Brigoxone 245 T hor-
mone weedkiller. There are
16,000,000 acres of high-class
land infested with brigalow in
the mid-west of Queensland, and
clearing it could open up big
agricultural prospects.
Thinning Peach-trees
“Sundowner”: Thinning allows
the removal of diseased, mis-
shapen or blemished fruit; en-
sures a satisfactory balance be-
tween leaves and fruit; estab-
lishes a proper balance between
root- and top-growth to ensure
that all trees receive an adequate
share of available tree-energy;
•has an overall effect of producing
fruit of more uniform and
higher average size ; reduces dis-
ease and makes pest-control
easier.
Do the work as early as pos-
sible. Start once the fruit is large
enough to handle. Remove the
smallest fruits. The stronger and
healthier the fruiting-wood the
greater the quantity of fruit that
can be left on it. Aim to spread
the load evenly over the tree.
Heavier thinning will be re-
quired on a, tree in poor condi-
tion. Thin clusters of fruit down
to singles and take off fruit in
shaded parts if the tree is carry-
ing beyond its capacity.
Fig-growing
“Rooster”: White Genoa and
White Adriatic are the favored
figs of private gardeners. Black
Genoa is the main commerci-
ally-grown variety; as a matter
of interest, there is no record of
Black Genoa overseas, and pos-
sibly it is the local name for
the Italian variety Black Ischia.
Figs must be given the right
aspect and situation. Injury from
frost is severe on young trees,
and in older trees damage is done
to the fruiting laterals, resulting
in poor early crops. Cool
weather in the autumn will cause
failure in ripening of the second
or main crop. As a general rule
the main crop should be har-
vested from the end of March on.
A north-easterly aspect suits
the trees best, giving the maxi-
mum amount of sunshine and
warmth. High land will mini-
mise damage by frost. The fig
is accommodating to most soils,
but prefers a well-drained deep
loam.
Propagation is easy. Cuttings
from the desired variety are
made of well-ripened yearling
laterals from 12in. to 18in. in
length. Suckers are not advis-
able ; they are liable to stultify
through over-suckering.
There isn’t much to worry
about with pruning. Cut back
all the long laterals in winter.
This improves the shape of the
tree and increases the main
crop-yield. Plant low-set trees
about 18ft. apart.
Birds eat ripening fruit. An
occasional round from the gun
scares ’em off. Only other
trouble is a scab which some-
times forms on the fruit. Bor-
deaux sprays in the dormant
stage control it.
Natural rainfall should be
supplemented during the drier
months to ensure unchecked
growth. Figs eat up the water
during hot weather, requiring
adequate irrigation. Annual
dressings of fowl-manure are
beneficial.
Using the Sun
“C.S.”; Apart from those
Queenslanders who are using
solariums in their homes to trap
the sun’s heat, Australians gener-
ally should be interested in the
Sun —they’ve so much of it —and
its future potentialities.
R. G. Raynes, in “Wesfarmers
News” (W.A.), says it’s a fact
that unlimited free heat may be
turned into power and energy
for a hundred purposes—to
cook the joint, run the rail-
ways, light the home, power the
factories, replace coal, steam,
oil, gas!
In France, says Raynes, a Dr.
Felix Trombe has built a solar
furnace. Its mechanism is simple.
A six-foot-diameter curved
mirror collects the sun’s rays and
casts them as a beam on to a flat
mirror. From there they are re-
flected to a pin-point focus that
has a temperature of 3000 deg.
Centigrade.
There is one snag. It works
only when the sun shines. In
France this is infrequent. But
Trombe is thinking of sun-fur-
naces to be used in France’s col-
onial empire, where the sun
really shines at full power, and
foresees a system using mirrors
hundreds of square feet in area,
with a mechanical device to keep
the whole collecting unit front-
face to the sun as it moves so
that maximum heat can be ab-
sorbed all through day-time.
Turning sunlight direct into
energy has been done by Pro-
fessor J. W. Beams, of the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He found
that shining a ray of the sun on
to a wheel at a tangent made the
wheel spin.
In a vacuum he had small
wheels turning at high speed.
When the light source was cut
off, the wheels continued to
spin—and in an hour lost only
one-tenth of one per cent, of
maximum speed. How this ex-
perimental stuff will be evolved
remains to be seen.
An English scientist committee
published, last year, a report on
“Utilisation of Solar Energy,”
which said that, although the
committee did not see a way to
use solar energy as a large con-
tribution to power resources at
present, it proposed that a cook-
ing-stove, utilising sun-power and
suitable for large-scale produc-
tion, be designed. Development
of air-conditioning equipment
driven by solar-power and a flat-
plate collector for driving a
small engine were thought to be
worth consideration.
Hints for the Farm
“Farmer Bill”: Acacia cun-
ninghamii is not the motherum-
bah, it’s the. bastard myall,
curracabah or motherumbung,
and is dangerous to stock. The
motherumbah is the Acacia
cheelii and is considered by
some to provide valuable fodder
for cattle and sheep. But it
should be suspect. It’s closely
related to the coast myall
(Acacia glaucescens) the leaves
of which contain prussic-acid
and are definitely poisonous.
“Sund.”: Don’t lift bulbs be-
fore leaves are brown and
withered —the bulbs are de-
pendent on the food withdrawn
from the leaves for their well-
being next season. Shake soil
from them, but leave the foliage
if it does not fall off readily.
Place in a single layer on a
wooden tray in an any shed.
Dead foliage and loose scales
can be removed as soon as the
bulbs are quite dry, but don’t
pull apart twin or triple bulbs.
Bum rotten bulbs and those
soft at the neck.
“Quom”: The home-gar-
dener will get best results from
fruit-trees if they have protection
from sun and wind, especially
in their first year. Although no
fertiliser is used for first-year
trees, a mulch of dry manure is
good in inland areas to offset
too rapid drying in heavy winds,
“Sundowner”: Spring onions
need well-drained soil; and
more nitrogen than any other
plant. An ounce of sulphate of
ammonia and 4oz. of bonedust
or 2oz. of super to each square
yard is adequate. Don’t sow
seeds more than £in, deep and
firm the filling. For continuous
crops sow a small bed each
fortnight for the next few
months,
“B.”: Leaves of the honey-
locust tree make good stock
fodder. Don’t lop the limbs or
the stock will strike trouble
with the thorns. Use a scythe
to cut the leaves from the limbs
of large trees; shears for
smaller ones. In each case
allow the trees a certain num-
ber of leaves to breathe by and
you’ll have another crop of
foliage within a few months.
This tree suckers freely, and,
once established, keeps on per-
petuating itself.
“Springvale”: Plant seedlings
in the cool of the evening. Keep
as much soil on the roots as
possible. Trim the roots to a
uniform length. Plant so that
the stem of the lowest leaf is
at ground-level. Firm the soil
around the plants and water
well, preferably with a solution
of \oz. of sulphate of ammonia
and loz. of super, per gallon
of water. In hot weather pro-
vide plenty of shade.
“My”; A three-weeks’ course
for farmers at Dookie College
(Vic.) on dairying and pig-
raising, and another on sheep-
husbandry and wool-classing,
will begin on March 8. The
charge of £2 ss. a week covers
board, lodging and tuition.
Apply to Department of Agri-
culture, Melbourne.
THE WEATHER
by Inigo Jones
The general rains shown on the cycle for January
duly arrived. The cycle shows further rains for Sydney
during the month. A rather dry time and a cold winter
followed in the cycle of 1895, which is apparently being
repeated now. Hope lies in the possible renewal of the
sunspot action, which is now at a minimum.


Established 1868
Contractort to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS ON
osuiuvan
■»», mtTii .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BBAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SIDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
j. w. Dunlop, a. h. dickins. o. Gordon russell.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
holding the cup she moved out
from the screen.
“Mrs, Grayson woke ten
minutes ago,” she told him. “I’ve
been trying to give her a drink,
but she still seems confused.”
He walked across. “How do
you do, Mrs. Grayson?”
£ler eyes were shut tight now,
but she was still crying steadily.
“Mrs. Grayson! ” he said. Her
lips opened, then shut tight.
“Leave her a while, I think,”
he said to Sister Brown.
“She expected to wake up
dead, after all.” Leaving the
ward, he said “Oh, by the way—
she may be afraid of whomever
she saw first when she woke up.
Dr. Hughes agrees with me that
—er —if she should appear not
to co-operate with you, well, it
may be her mental state. Don’t
rush her.”
“Yes, I understand.”
OISTER returned to her desk
and took up some linen
requisitions. Mrs. Grayson lay
very still; she was no longer
weeping, but Sister thought she
was awake. “She expected to
wake up dead, he had said.
Silly fool. If,” she thought, “I
were going to suicide I’d make a
job of it —but I never would.
Sophisticated people don’t.”
Eric Bart was already becom-
ing less important. He had
served to prop-up her own idea
of herself. But, even now, he
was not so much Eric Bart as
an episode in the sad but
fascinating past of Angela
Brown. This time yesterday she
hgd been terrified that something
would prevent last night’s meet-
ing after all. Last night, stupidly,
she had permitted a slight varia-
tion in the role of Angela Brown,
the cynical beloved and sought of
all men.
“Eric,” she had begged, “tell
me. There’s one thing I couldn’t
stand, not yet. There isn’t
another woman?”
“No,” he had replied. “No.”
She had had to believe him
because it was too dark to see
his face. Today she had the
situation in hand; except for
Mrs. Grayson. When that
woman had first opened her eyes
she, fastidious Angela, had
almost thought —had thought—
that the horribly-aware eyes
recognised her, not personally,
but in some awful peculiar way.
“Good afternoon, Sister.”
Mary Erskine stood there. Sister
Brown told the girl what she
wished her to do, then picked
up the cup and went back to
Mrs. Grayson.
“Mrs. Grayson!” She was an
attractive girl. Not the usual
Grayson “type,” and looking
younger than the thirty years
given on the case-history.
“Listen, dear; you really
should ...”
“Go away. Leave me
alone ...”
“You really should ...”
The woman looked afraid.
“Nurse Erskine,” she called.
She told Nurse of Dr. Pendle-
bury’s theories. “So I’ll go on
in the ward if you’d sit with
Mrs. Grayson.”
Nurse Erskine took a chair
to the bed, placed a jug of water
on the locker beside it, and sat
quietly. After ten minutes or so
Mrs. Grayson reopened her
eyes. Nurse smiled. Mrs. Gray-
son’s tongue moved slowly round
her lips, as if it were feeling them
for the first time.
“A drink?” Nurse asked. The
woman moved her mouth. She
drank thirstily.
T ATER in the afternoon the
telephone rang. Sister
answered it.
“Trunk - line,” said the
exchange. Then Eric spoke, but
he did not recognise her voice ;
he asked for Nurse Erskine.
She took Nurse’s place by the
bed while the girl spoke. She
was too near to avoid hearing.
Mary Erskine was blushing a
dreadful crimson. (“There isn’t
another woman?” “No.” Oh,
God in Heaven, I don’t choose
to listen to her; ho would
imagine Mary was speaking in
the sitting-room: even Eric
would not arrange this farce.)
Mary was saying “Yes,” “No,”
“I can’t talk here.”
He must have persisted because
she looked at Sister and then, as
if something had resolved itself,
told him “Yes. Yes, darling. I
do love you.”
Mrs. Grayson stirred. Almost
gratefully Sister turned to her.
“My throat?”
“It’s all right, dear. You’ll
be all right.”
“You married?”
“No, dear.”
“Me either. Sister!”
“Yes.”
“I’ll tell you. All men,” she
was crying again, “all men ...”
The bell tinkled as the receiver
was replaced. Dr. Pendlebury
had strolled in, unnoticed.
Sister got to her feet.
Mrs. Grayson said “Wait!”
She looked around at them. “I
oughter know,” she said, “and
I mean you, too.” She looked
hard at Dr. Pendlebury. “And
you can hear, too.” Her eyes
turned to Nurse Erskine.
“Now, now, dear.” Sister
Brown soothed. She stooped to
straighten the top sheet.
The woman glared at her, not
so much with dislike as with a
direct pitiless sorrow.
Nurse Erskine thought “If
Brown would only stop saying
‘Dear! ’ ” Whatever this pair of
tortured eyes had seen or con-
doned in the past they had
surely earned their owner her
removal from reach of insincere
indignities. Yet at this moment,
always, but more just now.
Sister Brown needed her mad-
dening futile phrases, her “Now,
now, dear” for patients, and her
“Oh-h, darling” for men-friends.
And there was, perhaps, some-
thing that she should do for
Sister Brown: obviously Eric
had not broken the news last
night; now she had guessed.
Even Mrs. Grayson seemed to
know. She was staring so very
hard at Nurse Erskine. Mary
felt tired again—and, for the
first time, uncertain. Happiness
was draining out of her. That
woman’s eyes were inky sponges
blotting-up happiness.
Dr. Pendlebury coughed in a
rather puzzled way. Sister,
Nurse and the woman on the bed
seemed to be involved in some
obscure female mystery which
concerned, but did not include,
him. He looked from one to the
other, his eyes resting on Sister
Brown, who was still twitching
the sheet with shaking hands.
She, too, he thought, looked
ill. Perhaps another influenza
case. She was saying “Shh, shh”
in a mechanical way.
“Let her talk,” he said. “I
want to examine the dressing;
then I’ll give her a needle.”
Mary turned to him. These,
seconds were endless; would
anything else ever happen?
“Listen,” said Mrs. Grayson.
Her faint voice had a splintery
explosive quality, “I know. All
men—any men —they’re all
foxes.”
Dr. Pendlebury stepped across
and with his big red schoolboyish
hands began gently to remove
the outer bandage.
“You, too,” she croaked, “all
of you. You can’t fool me. I
know.”
Terry?” Mr. Rankin would ask
eagerly.
“That’s right, sir,” Terry would
say, and Mr. Rankin’s heart
would leap sickeningly with
amazement and jealousy—and
hope.
“And the bait?” Mr. Rankin
would ask breathlessly; “the
bait, Terry?”
“Worm,” Terry would say,
and slyly, “Big fat juicy worm.”
And that afternoon Mr.
Rankin would be on his hands
and knees after a big fat juicy
worm. Gone now the order of
the week, homework on such and
such nights, letters to the depart-
ment on Friday nights, and even
the progress association missed
their esteemed treasurer and his
phobia of blackberry-patches.
A NOTHER sort of fisherman
altogether was Mr. Tracey.
He had that quiet, confident
approach appreciated by all
decent fish. They recognised his
merits and respected him for
what he was, and every tussle
was a clean issue in which the
best won, usually Mr. Tracey.
He had long ago given up that
feverish approach to the sport
which marks out the greedy
amateur. So that he was able to
appreciate the beauty of the
night as he kept his long silent
vigil, and his thoughts were
peaceful enough, his silence
ruminative.
When, then, he heard a crash-
ing along the banks of his
favorite pools, and a fearful stab
of light, and a heavy breathing,
and even muttered cursings he
felt quite stirred to anger. He
blessed himself for having
already caught five fine fish, and
was about to rise and go when
he, too, was caught in the glare
of light. He could not go.
The light wavered and
eclipsed. There was a moment’s
silence. When Mr. Tracey could
peer through the murky gloom
he espied a strange creature, tall,
gloomily dark, garbed in out-
landish rig and carrying, of all
things, a huge creel. He shook
his head in unbelief. Then the
light stabbed again.
“Tracey,” said a voice. It was
weary, despairing, disgruntled.
“Huh,” said Mr. Tracey
without favor.
The light moved from him
and explored the bank eagerly.
Then the light came to rest upon
five fish. There it stayed, and at
the other end of it there was a
long-drawn-out “Oh! ” Finally
the light dropped.
Then Mr. Rankin said in a
strange voice “Did you catch
those, Tracey?”
It was obvious to them both,
but more easily believed by the
catcher. Mr. Tracey barely
nodded.
In the darkness Mr, Rankin
must have been talking to him-
self. Suddenly he burst out
“Aren’t they beauties!”
Mr. Tracey felt his anger
evaporate. Of course they were
beauties, and he loved occasional
praise. “Not bad at all,” he said
modestly.
Mr. Rankin was breathing
heavily. Little did the fishing
farmer know that the school-
teacher was close to being a little
mad, upon the verge of seizing
the fish and fleeing.
Then Mr. Rankin must have
won his first bout, even in the
midst of his desperation, for
he said; “I say, you wouldn’t
mind giving me one, would
you?” It was a question, not a
statement.
“Not at all,” said Mr. Tracey.
He could not use the five fish
in any case. “In fact,” he said
generously, “you can have four
if you like. I only need one.”
“Only need one,” repeated Mr.
Rankin with some bitterness.
Then he came to himself. “I’ll
buy them of course,” he said,
and before Mr. Tracey could
protest he said rapidly “You see,
I need a few badly,”
Mr. Tracey shook his head,
bewildered. “Well, put them in
your basket,” he said finally.
“No,” said Mr. Rankin
triumphantly, “I’ll put hooks in
’em, as though I’d caught them.”
He seemed now to be speaking
to himself. He took hooks from
a compartment of his marvellous
basket, and began hooking the
mouths of the fish. He tied short
pieces of nylon to the hooks.
He slipped the lines about his
fingers and stood, “Now I’ll get
off home with these,” he said in
an exultant voice. He stood a
moment, his eyes gleaming in the
light of his searchlight. “I’ll
show her I can catch some-
thing,” he said triumphantly, and
for that moment believed indeed
that he had caught the fish.
“Oh,” said Mr. Tracey
curiously.
“Never can catch a fish,” said
Mr. Rankin, reverting to sorrow.
“Try as I may, Tracey. And
the little woman thinks I'm a
fool.” As the full truth dawned
on him he repeated his words.
“Yes, a fool,” he said incredu-
lously. He shook his head, and
then came closer to the farmer.
“I say, Tracey,” he said, “you
won’t let on, will you?”
“Eh, er, hah, that is to say,
no,” said Mr. Tracey. He was
astounded.
“Well, thanks,” said Mr.
Rankin, but he had forgotten
Mr. Tracey. He had given away
to tremendous temptation, re-
claiming his esteem, at whatever
price. Only he and Tracey knew
he had sold his soul “I’d better
be getting along,” he muttered.
A/fR. TRACEY watched him
pick up his creel and the
light. His eyes gleamed when he
saw the fine rod, and he said,
wistfully, “Haven’t you ever
caught a fish with that?”
“Never a one,” said Mr.
Rankin. He paused a moment,
sadly. Then he felt the weight
of the fish in his grasp. “But
this makes up for it,” he said
heartily. He began to crash
through the bush.
Then it came to Jvlr. Tracey in
a flash that what was being done
here was irremediable. Rankin
was doing something he might
later regret.
“Just one moment, Rankin,”
he said.
The schoolmaster paused. He
knew the tone within the voice.
It was one he had used himself
many a time. It was accusation,
reproach.
Yet Mr. Tracey was not re-
proachful. “How is it,” he
asked, “that you never catch
any?” He laughed with faint
trace of scorn. “How is it?” he
said, echoing himself. “When
you come crashing through like
a rhinoceros, scaring the fish.”
He snorted. “And I bet you use
worms for bait, hey?”
“Yes,” said Mr. Rankin. The
fire had gone from him. The
fish hung limp in his grasp. His
old failure flowed back upon
him. “Worms,” he agreed.
Mr. Tracey shook his head,
pityingly. He liked this feeling
of pitying Rankin, but there was
more to it than that, great pre-
cepts at stake ; anyway, precepts
of the fisherman’s world,
“Just you put all that stuff
down,” he said, and as Mr,
Rankin obeyed meekly he felt
the contempt in Mr. Tracey’s
voice.
“With that great glaring light,”
said Mr. Tracey, “and all that
noise and the like.” He peered
at the schoolteacher. “You
don’t even show respect for your
fish,” he cried. “How can you
expect to catch them, hey?”
He added heavily, “And with a
wprm! ”
npEN MINUTES later the two
men rose carefully. Without
the aid of a light they crept
through the tall gums along the
bank. Their going was very
soft. Finally they came to a
long pool covered with dark
eeriness.
“Here,” whispered Mr.
Tracey.
They sat behind a thick-boled
gum, and Mr. Tracey showed
his friend how a frog is hooked.
Mr. Rankin watched carefully.
He had only a faint hope that
he might redeem himself. He no
longer cared for that sort of
esteem he had known, for its old
power had died. But he longed
passionately to catch a fish, not
simply that he might take it
home to his wife and confound
her. Not even that he might
regain his old poise and become
again the steady schoolteacher.
Something even deeper than that
was involved, but it was not very
clear to him, as he squatted and
stared at his line being hooked
with a new and fearful bait.
“Now throw it,” urged Mr.
Tracey, and Mr. Rankin threw
it, so that at first it curved into
the air, and was faintly seen
against that light above the pool.
Then it hit the water with a faint
“Polop!” and sank.
Moments of waiting.
Moments that drew out, extended
to their own limits, after which
time ceased to be, the world
frozen in that strange light and
the water unmoving.
The two men sat there, each
with his own thoughts, Mr.
Tracey trying not to feel proud,
an evangelist of fishing, and yet,
as he saw the line sink so certain
of what his craft must yield, and
Mr. Rankin, humbled now, with
his almost-accomplished crime
for ever behind him and negated,
watching the line moving in the
water. His pulses were begin-
ning to throb, heavily, and his
heart, too, had begun hammer-
ing.
But if the fish heard they
would know it for a drumming
of re§pect to them, and a noise
of excitement to the school-
master, who, having forgotten all,
was staring at the line with final
certainty in his mind that this
time the bait would be taken,
and the line fly until it had
reached its immediate limit,
whilst behind the reel would be
the madly-excited fisherman,
who, however, would not be so
excited that he could not fight,
nor foolish enough to lose the
first fruits of his vindication.


SHORT STORIES WANTED!
Unpublished short stories are required for films of 15, 30, 60
minutes length. Since filming will cover Central Australia and
Arnhem Land, backgrounds should be outback and mainly outdoor.
Successful writers will receive a percentage of film profits. MSS,
will not be returned unless accompanied by stamped, addressed
envelope.
L. J. Wood, Centralian Resources,
Office 44, 3 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE SATURDAY BOOK
No. 13 edited by John Hadfield
“You never know what you will find in
this book, except that it will be what
you least expected and that it will be
thoroughly interesting.” (Howard
Spring). This year’s edition deals with
everything from vintage cars to dragons.
31/- (post 1/5)
THE PICK OF PUNCH
This year’s highly entertaining selection
includes items from such famous Punch
contributors as A. P. Herbert, Ronald
Searle, Giovannetti, Angus Wilson, J. B.
Boothroyd and Emmett. It’s a bigger,
better edition with a striking dust
jacket, more illustrations and full colour
pages.
15/6 (post 1/1)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any of the hundreds of wonderful new books
yoi/ll find now at .. .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Casllereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l.
The Ideal Gift Book
The Book Of Cricket
DENZIL BATCHELOR 255. Od.
A collection of photographs of the greatest cricketers of the last
fifty years with full character sketches.
COLLINS
Over 300 Illustrations
PUBLISHERS
African sheep-farm, while it is also, from
another viewpoint, a distillation of the
soul, the very quintessence of Africa,
such as we had in fiction from Conrad s
Heart of Darkness. Indeed the man
named Fenton who had bordered his
garden-path with the skulls of natives,
“just as in England coastguards arrange
white stones to show them where the
cliff’s edge begins,” and who used the
body of a negro for bait in a hon-trap,
might well have served as a model ror
Conrad’s infamous Kurtz, the European
hopelessly corrupted by too much living
with the natives:
“But what are they?” “Skulls! Skulls!’
he yelled The next morning he asked.
me to come down with him to the gun-
trap. I had expected to see the mangled
body of some beast which bad been used
as bait, the carcass of a bullock or zebra,
or waterbuck. Instead, lying there before
me, was the stiff black body of a headless
native. That was enough for me. I hurried
back and called for my pony. Fenton was
vastly amused by my agitation. wood
God!” he said. “What's wrong? The
man-eater killed the poor devil as he was
crossing the stream two days ago and I
had nothing else to bait the trap with.
But I am certainly sorry that his head nas
been taken, because I bad a place waiting
for it at the end of my border!’
The “black laughter” which gave
Llewelyn Powys his title was not
though the total effect of the book, com-
ing from the writer’s mind, is pleasant
and highly civilised —exactly a merry
chuckle. It came from the throat of a
“hyena-man” who haunted the writer by
night and who, whether entirely credible
or not, makes an appropriate contrast
to the Dorset fairy.
SPIDER GUMS
3J(?Kere winter’s snow and crashing rains
Have forced the snowgums to their knees,
High in the sky on Kelly s Plains
These frailand delicate spider-trees;
As though some pigtailed fossicker here
Now bleached as quartz on Dead Man
Range
Had drawn a Chinese sketch on air
To speak for him when all should change,
Or high from where the MurrumbidgeeV
Tussocky rapids flash and race
A flying swarm of water-midges
Hangs in a mist of light and lace.
As though through summer’s huge hot
noon
Lost drifts of winter linger still
And twenty flakes of snow are blown
All dark against the granite hill;
Or light winds silvery with frost
Have breathed upon the aky blue glass
To make a tree that seems half ghost
And melts into the russet grass.
i
As though in earth’s deep dream of stone
Some leafy thought was taking form
And fled before the dream was done,
Half-finished out to sun and storm;
Or some tall tree not there at all
Has flecked the sunlight with its shadow
And shadows’ shadows glide and fall
Dark green upon air’s crystal hollow;
As though, as though— but now I see
The white clouds covering the blue,
A chill breeze beating on the tree
That hardly shakes as it goes through,
And know how earth took deepest thought
In this cold kingdom of the winter
To make some shape of grace to float
On high while snowgums crack and
splinter,
And made this phantom tree, at last,
A thing more air than leaf or bough.
That slips clean through the killing blast
And dances clear from all the snow.
N.s.w.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
"Boldness Be My Friend"
A good many reviewers of Boldness
Be My Friend by Richard Pape (Elek)
have reeled back in horror (literally) at
what they call the “savagery” of Pape s
story of p.-0.-w. days in Germany.
Pape does half-strangle a man and
bashes him with an iron bar. But, as
the escapee is half-delirious, starving,
and on the brink of escape to Tito’s
partisans, and as the gentleman bashed
was directly opposed both to Pape’s get-
ting food and to his escape, the airman’s
reactions could have been hardly less
than savage; and as the p.-0.-w, had a
pretty tough time of it, what with being
caught after three attempts at escape,
if he were to recount his adventures faith-
fully his book could hardly rate three
stars for juvenile reading.
Actually, if Pape has avoided the futile
semi-humorous style of detailing war’s
horrors, he has used a nice sense of
restraint in telling of his more grim
moments, and has presented a documen-
tary which marches with fascinating
interest from one escape to another.
Shot down during a raid on Luftwaffe
anti-aircraft headquarters near Berlin, the
author (navigator of his bomber) joins
the Underground in Holland and is wait-
ing on the coast to be picked up by a
British submarine when the Gestapo
comes into the picture. Pape goes out
of the picture and into Stalag VIIIB.
After tortuous grilling to make him
reveal the identities of his Underground
helpers—he is a Yorkshireman, and red-
headed, and so the Underground con-
tinues to burrow and sabotage—Pape
swaps identities with a Kiwi in camn
and tries again from a Polish coalmine.
He gets away with it—helped by nuns
of a convent —till pleurisy and delirium
send him into a German officers’ can-
teen, where he stands on a table and un-
loads in a stream of vituperation all his
feelings on Hitler and Germans in general.
After the inevitable result he is nursed
back to health, tortured again and sent
to work on a farm in Czechoslovakia
Some good work in sabotaging agricul-
tural machinery here before he has
another go, this time getting well down
into Hungary before hunger and sickness
call the tune and he blunders on to a
German lookout-post.
Three years to the day after he was
first captured he is repatriated from
Sweden. That was a trick, too, and
though the details (medical) cannot be
reported on this page, it was certainly
the most original piece of chicanery this
reviewer has come across in escape-books.
A Selection of Novels
The Bride of Llew: Juliette de Bairacli
Levy (Faber). An extremely long, queer
and emotional novel which is intended as
a plea for the abolition of capital-punish-
ment. The hero is Llew Evans, a
Welshman who witnessed the separate
and horrible deaths of his parents in child-
hood. Later he gave great scholastic
promise but instead of acquiring a readily
available education he joined the gipsies
, „ nf i nri/efiehter lived
b“am P e “ faWe; of
some note was’several times in prison,
had remarkable strength and good looks,
and married the heroine. So far so
good. Then, in very lush prose, readers
are asked to believe that this scholar
gipsy” was a sort of latter-day saint and
that his wife acquired a strangely mystical
union with him. She, during an illness
following childbirth, commits an esoten-
cally ritual suicide. Llew is arrested, tried
and hanged.
. * * '*
A Sunset Touch: Howard Spring
(Collins) A most enjoyable novel with
a theme‘that shows how a certain brand
of naive innocence can prove equally
disruptive as intentionally malign
behavior Mr. Menheniot was a London
bank-clerk living a snobbishly solitary
life his one-and-only hobby being the
collecting of 18th-century furniture for
his apartment where he lived in a remote
dream of himself as the last descendant
of a once-famous Cornish -family. He
also collected pictures of the family man-
sion owned by strangers for over a
hundred years. Came the war—a chance
meeting with an American serviceman
whose name was Menheniot, too, and a
sequence of unexpected events which
culminated in the hero gaining wealth
and buying the old house. Arrived at
the small Cornish village where his
future home is, he meets an eccentric
old clergyman, a collection of likeable
villagers a delightful woman whom he
courts, and a tart who disrupts the
apparent course of events by seducing
hfm. The plot depends a good deal upon
coincidence, but it IS credible coincidence
and the tangled web is analysed and
unravelled with considerable skill and
penetration.
* * * *
Hussar on the Roof: Jean Giono
(Museum Press). This novel, translated
£ rorn t jj e French, is an experience that
mos j- rea ders will assimilate gradually, if
a t all, because it is not a work for the
squeamish. The background is Provence
in 1838, a year of heat and cholera.
Angelo, an Italian riding through Prov-
ence, encounters case after case 01
cholera described exact and revoU-
mg detail, the reader is tt s k’ lf V p f
sented with a sort of Anatomy ot
Death,” but Life is anatomised too.
Angelo finds whole villages wiped out.
Foul and grotesque corpses are found
everywhere; communities panic,
macabre quarantines are set up ; bird- and
insect-life undergo weird changes of
habit due- to their awful feastmgs. Dif-
ferent readers will find different episodes
unforgettable: a rough-as-bags old nun
ministering to the stricken ; the scene in
the woods where crows coo like doves,
seductively imploring the living to die ,
some of Angelo’s semi-mstmctive mea-
sures to combat infection; a hillside
encampment where he finds he people
he has been looking for (and loses them
again); and the odd conclusion when he
is about to leave Provence, almost
casually, to return to the Italy he had
seemed to be fleeing for ever.
THE “BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 260
Across
I—For two pins you would go to
this seaman interrupting her
speedster. (11)
9 —Big look’s middle address for
Nanook. (5)
10 — They tell you when to knock on
the chief, a matter of small con-
cern to the through passengers.
(7-4)
11— Cape at the end of the footway.
(5) . .
12 — Apprehend five directions. (5)
j4_Euiopeans score 50 in clubs. (5)
15 —Fuss is quite faire. (2-2)
17—Help a bit of backing. (4)
19—Time to muse. (5)
21 — Salt mutton is an influential
Biblical personality. (5)
22 — The stayer can, the non-stayer
comes. (4) .
23 — Huts are damaged in this way.
(4)
26 —Articles about a bloke mention-
ing one of the Biblical “rivers
of Damascus.” (5)
28 —Yes isn’t in the language for a
poet. (5)
31 — Scolds when in tears. (5)
32 — State custom’s relative case for
meat and bread. (7-4)
33 — Split spice if three score to 40-
love. (5) . ..
34 —As a matter of taste to the
Chinese, this is the car I don t
use for three seasons. (6-5)
Down
1 — Hollywood Howard clears his
throat and peddles fliers. (5)
2 Infant with a disordered brain.
(5) . .
3 Piper’s victim accompanies her
in preference. (6)
4 Bitter brace is broken. (5)
5 The postal changes on top of the
range. (9)
6 When placed in a pillar-box, the
king-emperor indulged in re-
partee. (8)
7 xhe fellow who gives tuition to
Benaud and Ring, but not Lind-
wall, says this is no way to get
on quickly, dawdler. (4-5)
8— Necessary for schoolboy writers
to plagiarise? (9)
13—The hatless he-goat is I. (3)
15 — A Sydney tram utensil is to like
this trail. (5-4)
16— The West is only one source of
quality in films, and it has cried
into guidance. (9)
18 —Invest in a football in the last
third of September. (9)
20—Deadlocks the donkeys with a
little spirit. (8)
24—Fatherless pause is a custom. (3)
25 —Finalise Jenkins’s loss to excite
affection. (6)
27 —The Khan batting once more.
(5)
29 Bumpkin is to harness together
30— Steamer containing writing-fluid
founders. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 259


r
mm
V
■
:
o
est off two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
■ * ‘ '
Iti «< • ,
PAPER
\
i
jk
.
.
i
.
.
I mm mm
■ ■ .
m
Mi
■
Be proud that the paper your parcels
were wrapped in today is Australian-made
Long-fibred softwood pulp from overseas, and short-fibred hardwood pulp from
Australia s Eucalypts, combine their best qualities in Australian-made brown paper.
Long and short fibred pulps, blended in scientifically controlled proportions during
manufacture, result in a high quality, strong and durable brown Kraft Paper.
. . .and not only the paper! The cartons containing your favorite breakfast cereal,
washing powder, toothpaste and digestive tablets ... the thousand-and-one com-
modities now contained in strong hygienic cartons . . . account for lon-upon-ton of
Australian-made cardboard.
v
r
9
• ... ,
ii*
• '«
. »»
S'
K 0
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Afkman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matraville, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping and Packaging Trade
