

THE HOUSE
advt
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3877
Wednesday, June 2, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
.Within a Castle’s Walls Lies
a Chapel Memorial to
the Fallen
Seppelts
HTHE Isle of Wight, now a popular
A holiday centre, has in centuries gone
by known all the vicissitudes of warfare
and enemy occupation. About the year
a.d. 43 it was conquered by the Romans
under Vespasian and, as evidence of this
occupation, a Roman villa still exists
today. Later the island was occupied
by the Jutes and in a.d. 530 Cerdic, who
had established the kingdom of Wessex,
conquered the island and slaughtered
most of its inhabitants. Cerdic’s kingdom
lasted until 661, when the island was
taken by Welfere, King of Mercia, and
handed over to the South Saxons. The
long period of Danish occupation
commenced in 787 and for many years
they used the island as a base and
storage centre for the booty they
captured on the mainland.
In the 12th century Carisbrooke Castle
was founded on the site of a Roman fort
and in succeeding centuries it served as
the chief bastion of the island’s
defences. The accompanying illustration
shows the Chapel of St. Nicholas which
was built within the castle walls by Lord
Lymington when he was governor of the
island in 1738. This beautiful edifice
is the Isle of Wight’s war memorial, and
was dedicated as such in 1929. The
Chapel contains a richly decorated roof,
a marble inlaid floor and a range of
oak stalls on either side. On the walls,
in panels of Hoptonwood stone, are cut
some two thousand names of those who
fell during the 1914-18 war. The altar
was given by King George V and Queen
Mary and other members of the Royal
family, who often attended evensong in
the Chapel when at Cowes for the annual
Regatta Week.


The Red Page
NEW-FASHIONED QUIXOTE
Brushing aside a mountain or two
of literary considerations (or prejudices],
and not being fussy about the kind
of metal you pick up so long as it nas
value, and the Walter Starkie treat men
of Don Quixote is not at all a bad bit ot
treasure. It isn’t anything so crude as a
lump of ore that you get; its a most
refined bar of whatever kind of precious
metal you care to call it. Say, Cervantes
sans Cervantes.
For if Starkie does ask you to brusn
aside whole mountains of the sort men-
tioned, it isn’t without his having done a
solid stint of labor on the old bulldozer
himself. Somewhat similar, but slightly
different, labor. Honest toil, though, and
he’s no way ashamed of it. It s all there
set out on the title-page: “Don Quixote
of La Mancha by Miguel Cervantes
Saavedra : An abridged version designed
to relate without digressions the principal
adventures of the Knight and his Squire.
Translated and edited with a biographical
Prelude by Walter Starkie. Nothing
could be fairer or plainer: translated and
truncated Quixote. The key-words, of
course, are “abridged,” “without digres-
sions” and “principal.” Absorb them
first and you can’t complain afterwards
that you’ve had a gold-brick palmed-oft
on you.
Not that perhaps most of us would
want to complain, anyway. After all,
there’s not such a great shortage of read-
ing these days that anyone should want
to rush out and throw a spanner at an
expert and cultured bulldozer attacking
any such mass of wordage as the Cer-
vantine jungle. Probably there are some
of us so minded that if Starkie next had
a go at the Complete Works of Carlyle
or The Rise and Fall of the Roman
Empire we’d lend him a spade.
Maybe there are still some hardy souls
about who can make their way right
through even the old Quixote translations
of Shelton or Motteux, harkening with
delight to the thick Tudor accents of the
one or the 18th-century sniggerings of
the other; enjoying every square mile of
it, with not a skip nor a hop-step-and-
jump anywhere. They can be left to their
grim pleasures.
Nor is the Starkie Quixote for those
who may want to feel the full impact of
the massive Cervantine masterpiece com-
plete, but rendered in the language of
their own time —as translation needs to be
if it’s going to be read by anyone except a
raving troglodyte. Exceptions allowed
for —things, say, like North s Plutarch
that are living literature in themselves—
translating demands this continual
renewal, quite apart from the necessities
imposed on it by advances in scholarship.
Starkie’s version complies up to a point:
it is modern English, all right, and most
graceful, too, what there is of it and
when it isn’t Irish. But the massiveness
isn’t there. Still, for those who do want
the massive impact (in modem English)
there is J. M. Cohen’s admirable trans-
lation, which Starkie calls “spirited,”
and which first came out in 1950 as one
of the Penguin Classics, this one so fat
(940 pages) that it looks more like a
classic partridge. What the Penguin
publishers may have considered an ad-
vantage or a novelty is that the print
comes through the thin page all the time,
giving you the sensation of standing on
your head and reading two pages at once,
if you’re good at that sort of thing.
The Starkie truncation is certainly most
easy to read, in the modern-English and
every other sort of way. It is cleaily
printed and handsomely got-up (by Mac-
millan’s), as the complete Cohen version
on its merit also deserves to be ; and of
the vasty Cervantine bulk Starkie has
bulldozed away something more than
half —which still leaves a fairly lengthy
book by general standards. But it also
leaves an entirely different book in an-
other sense altogether. In it translation
through truncation becomes metamor-
phosis—which isn’t normally the idea in
this line of business. It comes about thus :
With the mass you get a massive effect;
the sheer wordage, if you can take the
weisht, makes a tremendous impact by
itself. Comparatively, the Starkie render-
ing reads like a lightweight. Nothing, of
course, wrong with a lightweight as
refreshing, in a way, as this is; but
when you take a great lump of
ore and refine it down to a
nice, pure, detached bar of its precious
content, however valuable and bright on
its own it may be, you certainly haven’t
got that old rock any more.
That is one thing; there is something
else. Now that it has gone, the mass
would seem to have served another con-
siderable purpose. Cervantes (as Starkie
records in the excellent introduction he
calls a Prelude) made a hobby of lunacy ;
collecting all the acts of lunatics he could
gather by eye or by ear, repeating them
for the entertainment of friends or
cronies, and putting them into his plays,
stories and books. Starkie gives a sample
or two of these lunatic stories, and stark
enough they are, too. And that is precisely
the metamorphosis his version brings
about. You go with the Knight and his
Squire straight from one “adventure” to
another, and while in the early part you
still get an impression of watching amus-
ing eccentricity, the total effect is like
having been on a journey with pathetic
madness.
Perhaps that could be merely that you
are influenced by the effete modern
view that madness isn’t so very funny.
At all events, it is quite anew feeling.
It never came from sundry past samplings
of the old lumpy rock, and this, it seems,
was because in those the sheer mass
prevented a constant contact with what
such contact, in its final total effect,
seems to strip diown to pitiful
lunacy. It should be said that it is
not only “digressions” that Starkie bull-
dozes away: he shoulders off as well quite
a tonnage of earth that seems to have
nothing much to condemn it except its
earthiness. Crude stuff, if you like ; but
it and the “digressions” made a mass set-
ting, spacing out these “adventures” to
which Starjde has given unbroken con-
tinuity. It was a setting composed of
enough fantasy to invest any of the
“adventures” with the quality of eccen-
tricity, and enough sheer earthiness to
put some of them on to a Lear plane of
terrific madness. And these things—
the eccentric and the terrific—seem a
remove or two from the pathetic figure
the Knight seems to cut when you’re
with him all the time.
This, it needs repeating, is an overall,
general impression. On the way to reach-
ing it, the complete Don Quixote can, on
the one hand, even in the easy-reading
modern English of J. M. Cohen, be plain
tedious enough to make anyone but an
infatuated addict want to reach for a
bulldozer, while, on the other hand, what-
ever fault there may be in the Starkie
version it isn’t wordage. In fact, you
couldn’t get easier or more pleasant read-
ing as you go along —it’s only afterwards
the kick comes.
Certainly the Starkie rendering may
rock you a bit at times on the way, as
when, for instance, the travellers’ servant,
asked by the priest (or the curate, as
Starkie dubs him), “Have you heard the
name of any of them?” comes out with
the staggering reply (surely giving old
Cervantes something fresh to add to his
collection and chuckle over, telling his
cronies about that queer fellow Starkie
who’s been translating him in Madrid);
“No, Father,” replied the lad : “Sure
they travel widout a word out of them:
we hear nought but the sighin’ an’ sobbin’
of the poor lady. It’s my honest belief
that wherever she’s goin’, she’s goin’ agin
her wish.”
“Faith, yer reverence,” says the same
servant; which marvel of metamorphosis
should alone compensate the old Spaniard
who begat that speaker for these other
astonishing things the bulldozer has been
doing around the famous estate. If it
doesn’t, then the Starkie Prelude should
turn the trick. This preface is, as such
things go, even more extraordinary than
Don Quixote is as the general run of
novels go. It’s just about a Wordswor-
thian Prelude. There are 116 pages of it;
building up from assorted fragments a
complete narrative biography of Cer-
vantes ; critically analysing his works;
painting in, as background, the Spain of
his time.
It brings Cervantes out, as it were,
from the shadow of his book; gives him
life anew in his own right: Sancho and
the Knight combined : Digger-type
soldier, hard-battling playwright and
author, gentle and genial good-fellow.
Going off to the wars with Don John
of Austria ; wounded p.-0.-w. undaunted
by his chains; then, afterwards, Govern-
ment commissioner dunning the country-
side, commandeering supplies for the
Invincible Armada. Some miscalculations
—or misappropriations; at any rate,
deficiencies —in his cash-accounts, and
jail for Miguel. It should, however, cheer
the pure of heart, and encourage authors,
to know now at last that Don Quixote was
not written in jail. And if the Prelude
does give the impression of loading the
dice a bit heavily against the unfortunate
fellow’s undeserving wife (which possibly
could be vice versa), well, that, after all,
is a compensation Posterity preserves for
genius, along with the clout reserved for
any wife thereof. Enough for romance
that his Dona Catalina—even if she pre-
ferred (or was left) to live with her own
people after the marriage—willed him her
bed.
It remains now for Starkie to g° o >
in his sparkling style, and toss us oft a
full-text Quixote. Otherwise, as things
stand, it could be that Clio (being
interested enough) might perhaps sum-up
in some such terms as these ; “In the year
1954 the most stupendous combat or battle
ever seen on the sultry field of Transla-
tion was fought out to a final full-stop
between the valiant knight Walter Starkie
(sometime Professor of Spanish at Dublin
University, which explains everything) and
the formidable Masterpiece known to the
four corners of the earth (by hearsay, at
any rate) as Don Quixote , which said
Masterpiece the valordus knight mistook
for, or recognised as, a huge sprawling
monster, and attacked forthwith, what
time the ferocious Masterpiece fought
back desperately. Both lost.”
Haunted Poet
Philip Lindsay, in a new biography of
Edgar Allan Poe, The Haunted Man
(Hutchinson), frequently stresses that the
“tormented longing which sent him, halt-
mad, to his death was also the main-
spring' of his genius... .Poe was... .mad,
as the world judges madness, only great
self-control and escape through drink and
drugs restraining that charnel-house
monster in his soul who, had he dareo
give it rein, would probably have driven
him to acts as terrible as any he con-
ceived in his tales.”
The book presents a portrait probably
as convincing and, on the whole, im-
partial as a study of such a charactei
could be. The difficulty is that Poe is
quite incredible —as hero of a work of
fiction he would be absurd, and as a
psychoanalytic case-history such a mix-
ture of abnormal symptoms as he dis-
played in his life and work would cause
critics of that comparatively inexact
science to say: “It just goes to show how
those fellows exaggerate!"
The Haunted Man, in view of the im-
probabilities inherent in its subject, might
have been a more powerful book if the
facts had been presented with greatei
precision (and an index), and if the author
had denied himself some pages of highly-
dubious assumption. Especially in pas-
sages dealing with the relationship be-
tween Poe and his unwilling foster-fathei,
Allan, supposition runs wild. There are,
too, confusions of fact; was the fine
scholar who taught him at his English
school named Burke or Clarke? He is
given both names in the text. It is care-
less to print a footnote in support of an
assertion that Poe wished to disassociate
himself from Mr, Allan: “Poe always
signed his work, ‘Edgar A. Poe.’ It was
after his death that Griswold introduced
the Allan,” when, a little later, his child-
bride’s acrostic valentine to him reads
downwards Edgar Allan Poe.
Also, while Poe’s sister Rosalie may
have been as feeble-minded as she is
shown to be here, there seems little
evidence to support the contention that
his consumptive wife, Virginia, was men-
tally retarded. That her intelligence was
not the equal of Poe’s or of the calibre
of his literary friends is not to say that
the pathetic sick child was, for all her
charming innocence, either backward or
stupid.
Nevertheless this biography, being
readable and interesting, provides a good
background of reference to Poe’s own
literary output.
Negro Novel
“My hero could have been of any race,’
says Richard Wright on the dust-flap of
his novel The Outsider (Angus and
Robertson); but this is not how one
reads his book.
From the first page to page 54 his
negro hero, a Chicago post-office worker,
is shown in the company of negroes or
colored people ; drinking in bars, visiting
an under-age negro girl whom he has
made pregnant, blackmailed by his negro
wife, from whomjie is separated, into
giving her all his money in exchange for
indemnity against his under-age mistress s
threat to prosecute —it is not until he goes
to the post-office to collect the loan of
money negotiated by his wife that Mr.
Wright digs in the knife, with the post-
office cashier’s remark: —
“You colored boys get into a lot of
trouble on the South Side.” Finch gave a
superior smile. “You must have a hot time
out there every day, huh?”
Up to this point, we have been reading
a sample of characteristic American life ;
low-life, but happening every day. Sud-
denly we are forced to realise that it is
being lived by people the world dismisses
as comic coons; real people, with the
same capacity to feel and go wrong as
white people—it is cleverly managed.
The hero is absolved from his troubles
by losing his identity in a train-crash ;
be escapes unhurt, while the body of
another negro is buried as his. Hiding in
a brothel, he murders an old drinking-
companion who recognises him, and
escapes to New York. In New York, he
is taken up by the Communist party, and
installed in the flat of one of the leaders,
who wants to provoke an incident by
baiting the owner of the flats, a negro-
hating Fascist, into ordering him out. The
plan works; the Communist leader and
the Fascist flat-owner stage a terrible
fight in the Fascists’s flat, entering upon
which the negro murders them both with
a table-leg, and goes upstairs to enjoy the
favors of the Communist leader’s wife.
The Communist committee work the
case up to a scream about the murder of
one of their members by a Fascist in an
argument over racial-discrimination, but
one of the committee suspects the negro
hero of both murders, and him the negro
hero bumps-off in a hotel-room. All these
murders the negro hero does so cleverly
that the District Attorney, whom he had
met and impressed with his brilliant men-
tality on the train from Chicago to New
York, cannot find a means of bringing
him to justice. He releases him; the
murdered Communist’s wife who has
taken the negro as her lover throws her-
self out of the window on learning that
he is a murderer, and members of the
Communist party shoot the negro dead in
a dark street.
The negro hero gave up a promising
academic career when he married;
rejected by the higher white world, he
reverted to the jungle of contemporary
life, but with the morals of the African
jungle, where the law is to kill or be
killed, and with the intellectual brilliance
to transpose the spear and shield into the
automatic pistol, and the alibi. The laws
of modern society cutting across the
black instincts of the kraal’s multiplicity
of wives, he rejected those too. And when
he saw that the brotherhood of man held
out by the Communists was in practice a
brotherhood of careerists held together
by threats and blackmail, he killed them
in disgust So that there is considerable
point in the hero’s being a negro;
although maybe the negro author in-
tended some even deeper significance.
However you look at it, as a tough-
guy novel, as a nightmare fantasy, as a
parable, as a social study, as an attack
on Communism (Wright made quite a
stir when he broke with the party and
published The God That Failed) or as a
profound statement on the negro-question,
it is a first-class book.
Once, Aboard the Lugger
That the rich literary grounds of our
nor’-west, land and sea, have not yet
been fished-out is proved by yet another
haul. The Pearl Seekers, by Norman
Bartlett (Melrose) ; a racy history of
Australian pearling.
But there are signs that the field is not
inexhaustible: the most casual of general
readers must by now be acquainted with
German Harry and some of the juicier
black massacres; moreover, the material
is growing a little refractory, as Mr. Bart-
lett learned from the old-timer who was
his cabin-mate to Wyndham:
When he first heard I was going to write
a book about pearling he grinned derisively.
“Everybody writes hooks about the north
except the people who live there,” he said.
“Come up to town when we arrive and
I’ll make it easier for you. You’d better
meet J. T. C. Mackenzie, Bernie Bardwell,
Tudor Owen, Dan McDaniels and some ot
the others. You needn’t believe all they
tell you, although most of it’s true, but
you’ll need a leg-in from somebody like
me. Most of ’em have had people who
write books. They feel they could do it so
much better themselves.”
Thus warned, Mr. Bartlett copes with
the situation by leaving no shell unopened.
He journeys back into the history of Aus-
tralian discovery to prove that our coasts
are there; then he begins with the first
Australian pearl-fishers, at Shark Bay, on
the West Australian coast, about a hun-
dred years ago—waders, picking the
“miserable” Shark Bay oysters horn
shallow banks and throwing them into
pogey-pots,
where the flesh putrefies into a vile eyih
smelling mess. Tire pearlers rake th g
the sediment for pearls and b^ rack 1^ a ™ < | 1
or irregular pearly substance). Their usual
reward is a handful of seed-pearls and a
few odd pieces of baroque When a big
pearl appears it is usually an upmia
beauty valuable out of all proportion
JfS u needed to complete a necklace
of fellow pearlsf much rarer than whrte
or pink.
From Shark Bay he flies off to Cape
York where John Jardme, m 1863,
founded the port of Somerset, intended
o Continued on page 35)


I S'-'
B *
_, xll
i
K
:
... • -x-y:
«1
not
everybody
likes
vanilla!
■■
"
**' r-~
—fck
mmmmtmmm
z
,
_ ■
MHb
/
11 ißi
f < :
■1
I
, H
hi
1
OPS
3 •
■
■
* mKm mam mm r
■■■■l ' ' / I
> x : -x 3:„ :xx. -
For the reason that your favorite soda fountain offers
every flavor that’s in season ... so does Anthony Horderns’
feature the largest range of men’s shoes in the widest
possible range of sizes, your best choice of style, leather,
and price becomes an easy choice,
FD
FD
F
TOP LEFT
Julius Marlow Bold Brogue with the very popular Wall toe
and very stout soles in black or tan calf. Sixty measured
fittings sizes 5 to 12. Price 89/-.
TOP RIGHT
Packard Hampton last in black or tan calf also available
in plain toe derby with leather soles, 86/-. Golf shoes, rubber
soles, 88/6. Brogues, 98/-. Fractional fittings sizes 5 to 12.
MIDDLE LEFT
Julius Marlow casual, a really fine choice in comfortable casuals.
Beautifully worked moccasin front and leather soles
in tan calf. Sixty measured fittings in sizes 5 to 12. Price 74/6.
MIDDLE RIGHT
Julius Marlow Moccasin Golf Shoe with rubber soles and heels in
brown calf. Sixty measured fittings sizes sto 12. Price 80/9.
BOTTOM LEFT
Whybrows “Lennox” last, black or tan calf fractional fittings
sizes 5 to 11. Price 76/6.
BOTTOM RIGHT
Hansmans “Monty” last in finest quality black or tan calf, 109/-.
Also black and brown glace kid, 110/-. Fractional fittings 5 to 11.
I
vi/ * t 'Z* £>* / ' :
1 ' '
IHMMP 9
* V-■'■■■■
wmmrnmMmmmrnmm
IliMiiiliiiliiiiilii
iililiiiiiMililliiß
■■
I *
m
I I
;
■ill
■
mm
imm
. j*m**
iiiiiiiiililiiilillillili
i , • •■'•• v ■
!■>..;■•■■■ ■■‘•j
iiiiiiiiiii
Ipiiiiili
iiiiMilWilMi
■
piia mm
IMMIM
m
iMM
•i
J
JB
m
11
MM
iiiiiiiiiii
: i
■ii*


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 2, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3877
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Whstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
WELL DONE, MENZIES!
In a materialistic community voting at the end of
several years of deceptively “good” times it would not
have been astonishing if “Labor” had won the current
election. It is greatly to the credit of the sound sense
of the electors that it has not done so. The years of
prosperity have come on top of several earlier years
in which the “Labor” Government posed as a sort
of human cornucopia replete with every kind of gift
for willing electors. And though that Government
disappeared nearly five years ago, its theories live.
“Labor” has a great advantage over other political
parties in that its body-politic includes numbers of
great unions, some Communist-led and unscrupulous
in method, which carry on a political propaganda
day in and day out and which have special advantages
in that they can exercise pressure on voters whether
they inherently believe in “Labor” doctrines or not,
either to vote the “right way” or to subscribe funds
for “Labor” election campaigns. “Labor” has, more-
over, the backing of State Governments which for
more than a decade in some States have done their
best to politicalise the teaching in State schools and to
condition children to become the Socialists of
tomorrow. >
In such an atmosphere it is not wonderful that
there should be borderline cases by the thousand who
actually believe in “Labor” promises which even
“Labor” leaders themselves do not believe in,
especially when they are uttered by a former High
Court Judge and President of U.N.O. who might be
expected to be both responsible and/ethical in his
public life.
Dr. Evatt has, in fact, in this campaign behaved
more like an uninhibited sideshowman with a starving
family. He has been ready to promise anything and
everything. The miracle has been not that so many
people believed him, but so few. A belief in integrity
in public life is so deeply rooted in British blood that
it is hard to kill. Even Mr. Cahill, Minister for ‘
Police in N. S. Wales, and Mr. Sheahan are unable
to kill it.
Thus it is a measure of the general realisation
of the falsity of “Labor’s” campaign and so-called
policy—which would have been jettisoned the
moment the party acquired office —that the effective
drift in the voting against the Government was so
small. The drift which resulted in the actual loss of
seats was partly due in each case to personal or local
causes: to the failure of some candidates to look after
their electorates as they should have done, to shifts of
population adding a new infusion of natural “Labor”
electors who would Vote the party-ticket if Auld
Clootie himself nominated.
The New South Wales Liberal organisation, as usual,
was notably lacking in nous in the choice of candi-
dates. Mediocrity and a gift for dull platitude seem
to be the qualities which appeal to its selection juntas.
Both their candidates and their campaign were in
striking contrast to the brilliance of Mr. Menzies as
a campaigner which could only have an overall effect
in a continent as large as Australia and certainly could
not overcome all the deficiencies of individual
candidates.
There have been Press comments on the “bitter-
ness” of the election campaign. Whatever bitterness
there may have been on the Government side was
provoked by the unscrupulous “Labor” attempt to buy
votes at any cost—not only cost expressed in terms of
Budget figures, but in inflationary disruption to the
economy. Mr. Menzies, though cutting enough in his
comments at times, was dealing with a “Labor” leader
who handled truth carelessly and who showed a reck-
less disregard for the country’s future —a future
already weakened by a depletion of national assets of
a capital nature. Mr. Menzies is to be warmly con-
gratulated not only on the election result, but on the
work his Government has done during the past three
years, mostly in the teeth of “Labor” opposition.
The Government comes back with enough seats
to carry on comfortably, whatever the result in those
constituencies which are doubtful to the last moment
and are won by only hundreds of votes. Its star has
not receded, but if there is a commercial recession
during the ensuing three years it will be faced with
trouble at the next elections unless well prepared. Any
recession, as in 1929, whether due to a fall in wool
and wheat or a general world recession in business,
propagandists like Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell will hold
to be the result of the “Menzies blight.” And in the
meantime, aided by a chorus of yelping and hungry
“Labor” State Governments, less scrupulous even than
Federal “Labor,” the A.L.P. will do its best to wreck
the Government and force a double-dissolution.
The chances of this will always be present in the
next Parliament, where the absence of a handful of
members might cause defeat; and the Govern-
ment’s fate in the Senate hangs on a thread of
old and sick men who might be replaced at any
moment by the nominees of State Governments, some
of whom would not scruple to jettison the respectable
convention that when a Senator dies or retires during
his term he shall be replaced by a man of his own
political complexion. However, it faces an Opposi-
tion which is so groggy and disunited that anything
might happen to it —and particularly to it# leadership.
Buttressed by the knowledge that its policy has
worked wonders already, and has consolidated the
resources of the country to meet whatever conditions
lie ahead —prosperity, depression, war, drought—with
a sound surplus to give it a good start in its new term,
a busy economy free from unemployment and nearly
free frdm industrial unrest, it comes back to a fresh
start with reason to show a good front. This is indeed
a vital period in Australia’s history, and it is lucky
to have in office an honest and capable Government.
Chicken in Court
Charles Lamb’s “Dissertation on Roast Pig,” with
its theory that man first discovered the delights of
when his hause was acddentally burnt
down and the porker sheltering inside it was done to
a turn, achieved immortality. It is not likely that
j bel Sale > s determination to sell roast chicken
on Sunday wju bring her equa , £ame> but it may weU
that her stand will do something to bring down the
****** ce °f shopping-hours control.
Pendk HiltttowSe. Se road From Sydney to the
who are most
numerous at we • „ ,
end jf *5 1 18 about twenty miles Tom Sy y, -
and by the time the motorist gets there he is ju
beginning to realise that he has left the smoke-laden
atmosphere of the city behind him and is starting to
“nX moun'tains l&S “/his f^ly!
Drakes> Cockere i s , GeeS e and Turkeys. Fresh Daily.”
In such circumstances it would seem reasonable
roast chicken would be a
transaction highly pleasing to both buyer and seller,
but of no particular concern to anyone else. That,
however, is not quite right, as Mrs. Sale found out
when a roast chi?ken she had sold brought her a £3
bne j n Parramatta Court. In appearance and taste
probab|y indistinguishable from others she had
sold the previous day or the day after, but the court
wa sn’t concerned with its looks or its age, its succul-
ence or its toughness. The reason for the bird’s becom-
ing Exhihit A was that it had been sold “on Sunday
morning between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12.30 p.m.,”
an d that, according to the laws of New South Wales,
is one tbing that s i m p] y can ’t be done to a chicken,
, xhe Sund a y-closing ordinance goes back more
than half a century, and is apparently bound-up with
church-hours, Sabbath-observance and so on, but it
bas become much more than that. Religious influ-
ences may bave been its begetter, but secular interests
bave been responsible for making it part of the whole
sys t e m of restrictions and regulations which put a
s t ra itjacket on the independent small trader for the
benefit of the impersonal big stores and powerful
trade-unions. Mrs. Sale and her chicken are merely a
special illustration of what is going on all the time in
tbe su b U rbs. Mrs. Smith and a pound of tea ; Mrs,
j ones an d a tin of jam ; Mr. Robinson and a packet of
cigarettes—all made criminals by a conjunction of the
calendar, the clock and a crazy law.
xhe key to the closing-time of shops in New
South Wales is. the Factories and Shops’ Act, which
| ays down that the “closing-times of shops in shop-
pjng districts are to be the hours fixed by the industrial
awards and agreements for the cessation of work by
t b e employees.” Originally there was a provision for
overtime to cover a late-shopping night on Friday, but
t b e McKell Government suspended this institution in
1941 as a war-time measure, and successive “Labor”
Governments, believing that shops, like Government
transport, are run for the benefit of employees first
and the public second, have done nothing to restore
it. Now and then feelers are put out on the subject,
but the Shop Assistants’ Union, numerically strong
and a big contributor to election funds, has but to
make a few grimaces and the subject is hastily shelved,
Far from being likely to allow the Cahill Government
to extend shopping hours, the Shop Assistants have
as their objective a further reduction a complete
close-down on Saturday.
Although restricted hours of trading are naturally
popular with the union and probably with the big
stores which employ most of its members, there seems
no reason why the same restrictions should be applied
to small shopkeepers employing no assistants other
than their own families. It should be the business o
a Government to encourage enterprise, not to s me t,
yet the Cahills have shown themselves always will mg
to support those with a vested interest m early-c osmg
rather than to consider the interests of the pubhc-at-
large.
This has been apparent in their treatment ot
Friday-night shopping. It is even more marked in t
shifts of policy in the matter of petrol-selling non .
The State Industrial Commission, after giving
subject lengthy consideration, recommended removi g
all restrictions so that those who wished to do so coi |.
run a twenty-four-hour service. Cabinet had virtua y
decided to adopt this recommendation, when tne
unions concerned, who had shown no interest in t e
question when it was before the Industrial Commis-
sion, protested. There was a hurried meeting o
caucus, and Cahill and Co. were instructed to reverse
their decision. Neither caucus nor Cabinet cared two
hoots what the public wanted or what the Industrial
Commission recommended; their sole concern was
what the unions wanted.
So it is with hotel closing-hours. The Maxwell
Liquor Report was handed to the Government last
February, and it contained a strong condemnation of
“the six-o’clock swill.” Four months have passed with-
out a move from the Cahills. Hotel-employees uont
want any change from the present system, nor do the
publicans—and, after all, who are the public that they
should be considered in preference to those two power-
ful vested interests? There is, of course, one exception.
In Broken Hill hotels are permitted to trade during
hours fixed by the unions instead of those fixed by
law, and when the police tried to enforce the law a
few- months ago they were “called off” by Premier
Cahill.
It seems that suburban “criminal” shopkeepers
and their equally “criminal” customers can expect no
sympathy from the Cahills. “Labor”-Socialism makes
no allowance for individuals, and its creed is that be-
cause most people don’t want to work after five p.m.
it is wrong for anyone to want to do so. If the
N. S. Wales Liberals are awake to the real needs of
the community they will start campaigning right now
for a saner approach to the whole question of trading-
hours. In the meantime it seems that the only chance
for Mrs. Sale to sell her roast chickens unmolested will
be to move to Broken Hill and make friends with the
Barrier Industrial Council.
Achievement and Rewards
In Australia, probably more so than in other coun-
tries, there is a tendency to accept complacently and
without gratitude any high standard of service once
it has been the experience for some time. Whatever
is achieved in scientific, financial, industrial or politi-
cal fields has come to be regarded as the barest mini-
mum of service so far as the public is concerned.
Unskilled workers in particular become more and
more demanding on the skilled sections of the com-
munity. Doctors’ bills paid “merely to keep well” are
grumbled at by surprisingly many people, even on the
higher incomes, and that applies to the modest g.-p.’s
fees almost as much as to rounder sums often charged
by specialists.
Any fee charged by any professional man may be
open to question ; but the competent and conscientious
specialist is usually worthy of his hire and his appro-
priate position in the community. Mostly he has
arrived at his station after hard study and practice,
even though there is always the exception to any
generalisation. And whatever service he renders, that
standard can only be maintained by conscientious
attention to his profession and by jealously keeping
quacks from intruding.
In medicine, in law, in accountancy and many
other professions it is not so difficult to maintain
standards, because of the lengthy period of training
known to be involved and because of the standing of
the examination bodies. Professions deal with specific
subjects. But in finance and industry any opportunist,
whether he be a financial adventurer like Woolcott
Forbes or Reginald Aubrey Doyle or a political adven-
turer of the soapbox-politician order, can set himself
up to be an authority on any economic subject under
the sun and —for the time being—get away with it.
There are many examples of the smooth company-
promoter or confidence-man and of the political dema-
gogue. Usually their promises are never remotely
approached by their performances.
Today the political adventurer is by far the most
dangerous menace to our accustomed industrial and
economic standards. He professes to know more of
banking and finance than the most experienced banker.
He claims to know more about transport than any
shipping-manager. And he professes to be able to
juggle the public purse in a way that will make fools
of the conventional Treasurers.
Unless Australians show a proper regard for
achievement by honest and skilful men their country
will never make the progress that it so obviously
should be making. Achievement may build on
achievement, and may multiply all sorts of benefits
for the people. But to accept achievement as some-
thing that comes to us like the morning sun, some-
thing that we need not bother about nurturing or
protecting, is a policy of national suicide. Australia
has for some years now been living, to an extent, on
the achievements of past generations in the economic
sphere. Its transport system is breaking down and
not being replaced adequately. Some other sections
of the economy are becoming decrepit or exhausted.
City building activity is almost at a standstill in
Sydney and Melbourne because of politically induced
high building-costs and rent-control.
Too often in Australia a man has done a good
deed for his country only to be punched in the face
as soon as the benefit of his deed has been availed of
by his fellow-men. The return of the Menzies-Fadden
Government on Saturday shows that there has been
a heartening change for the better in the behavior of
many Australians. In that change there was at least
a commonsense appreciation of a job honestly done
at considerable personal physical cost on the part of
those doing it.


DF
f^TIRfNGi
kl Jj
allowance
ON MOUNT CAUCUS
A traveller, by the faithful hound,
Half-buried in the snow was found,
Still grasping in his hand of ice
That banner with the [?][?]range device.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Vital Political Term
The return of the Menzies Government
on Saturday could have influence on
the course of progress of the Australian
nation for generations to come. Once
it might have been said that Government
administration was of minor importance
in a country like Australia —that the
country went ahead in spite of Govern-
ments. But today Government business is
unprecedently big business. By popular
vote the people have asked Governments
to undertake social-security and other
obligations which involve heavy taxation
and necessarily other “controls” which
have a profound influence on the produc-
tive part of the economy. The Soviet’s
world activities, in Australian domestic
affairs and in the international arena,
have brought problems of government
and defence —costly defence —unknown
in any previous generation.
Almost ever since the end of the last
depression there has been popular talk
of a “new order.” People have been told
all sorts of fanciful stories about what
they could get in the way of economic
benefits without additional efforts merely
through some sort of a new deal from the
economic pack. Both the Communists
and Dr. Evatt’s party have been persistent
in plugging this line, though latterly some
of. the younger “Labor” members have
shown signs of revolt against the unreal,
sophistic “Labor” talk.
Against the greatest “Labor” effort of
all time in the offer of something for
nothing at top national level —it just fell
short of “everything for nothing”—the
Menzies Government has been returned
to office. Granted no Senate upsets dur-
ing its three-year term it will now have
the chance to consolidate the job of
responsible government and national
management that it has been engaged in
for the past four years. It will still have
to fight wanton State “Labor” opposi-
tion, and possibly trade-union obstruc-
tion. But it is bringing back common-
sense and stability to the community,
together with the feeling that rewards
will be received by those who work for
them. In a country like Australia noth-
ing could be more vital to its future.
The Betting Party
On its poster the day before polling-day
and in its front-page story the “Labor”
paper “News Review” proclaimed “Big
Punters Back Labor,” following it up with
“Liberals Shy of Big Money.” The
“story” continued:
Betting on the unofficial election-books
■in Sydney yesterday was H-to-8 on. This
means that to win £8 on a wager for a
Labor victory a bettor had to invest
£11... .Early In the campaign the betting
was even money. At this price quite a lot
of money changed hands, and supporters
of the Liberal party were in the market
for almost any amount.... It was not long
before the odds against Menzies lengthened.
Labor's stocks improved as the week
closed, and Thursday’s figure was H-to-8
on.
It has long been known that in N. S.
Wales “Labor” is the booze-and-betting
party, but this is the first time the party
organ has revealed so clearly the way its
mind works. If it was correct in its
report of the state of the betting “market”
—and with the close liaison that, exists
between the bookies and the upper strata
of the “Labor” hierarchy there is no
reason to doubt it —the punters had better
stick to the neddies and the dogs in
future.
Laker and Peking
Nothing could be more maladroit than
the decision of Mr. Attlee and a mixed
bunch of British Labor leaders to visit
Communist China at this juncture,'more
especially since Mr. Aneurin Bevan will
be in the party. It is a signal victory for
Communism that they should agree to go,
and it is a foregone conclusion that, fol-
lowing his performance in Egypt, Mr.
Bevan will roar through China, anti-
everything but Left-wing Socialism, and
proclaim everyone right but his country.
At fouling his own national nest nobody
has established such a reputation among
British leaders since the days of Charles
James Fox.
The business is the worse since the
plan seems to have originated with the
Labor party itself at a moment when the
allies of Britain were fighting desperately
to hold their own in Indo-China and the
Chinese Communists were deluging the
South-East Asian area and Australia with
Communist literature, some of it contain-
ing foul libels on the British soldiers
whom their troops killed a year or so ago
in Korea, and on the United States
soldiers who were side-by-side with them
in the trenches. . .
It certainly would be a good thing it
a stronger effort were made by the United
Kingdom and the Dominions to establish
closer relations with China and to exploit
its trade possibilities. In fact it would be
a triumph—and a Victory over Moscow,
which is doing its best to prevent contact
between China and the Western world
except through soft-shell pacifists and
Red agents. But it is one thing for the
whole nation to make treaties and adopt
a friendly guise and another fot members
of a political party to go wandering at
the invitation of Communist propagan-
dists who will make every use of them,
see that they are indoctrinated only with
what is good for the Communist cause
and certainly involve them in functions
and public occasions which they cannot
escape and which will be used to attack
the United States in the language of un-
bridled abuse and with the usual vicious
prevarication.
Furthermore, in setting the example at
the present juncture, when every country
in the Pacific is trying to break the spy-
and-sabotage line through which the
U.S.S.R. works via China to gain mili-
tary and industrial secrets, finance the
capture of trade-unionism and generally
carry on the cold war, this move will
make it infinitely more difficult for
harassed immigration and emigration
authorities in Australia and elsewhere.
These are constantly beset with demands
that they shall not grant passports to
persons going to the “peace” and other
propaganda meetings which seem to be
the main industry of Peking.
Mr. Holt, however, has reason to take
comfort that they are not his nationals.
And so has Dr. Evatt and Mr. Calwell,
How awkward it would be after their
outburst of rage against the “weakness”
of the Menzies Government in allowing
out Mr. Chandler, a leading Communist
and once a member of Dr. Evatt’s Four-
teen Points Referendum campaign com-
mittee, if they had had to demand that the
Government hold up the papers of a
bunch of “Labor” leaders bound to be
Mao’s guests!
The position is all the worse since the
visit immediately follows a victory for
the Bevan faction in the British Labor-
party Executive, which has decided to
continue its campaign against German
rearmament, to which all the Nato Allies
have agreed as a measure necessary to
world security.
Two Viewpoints
Two State Premiers had something to
say over the air last week on the subject
of the Commonwealth Government’s atti-
tude towards loan-money for State works.
Victoria’s Mr. Cain complained of the
“raw deal” his State had received in the
“starvation policy” of the Menzies
Government, which had set back the
State’s development many years by its
cuts in loan-money. Shortly before his
broadcast Mr. Cain had been down to
Morwell to inspect the £7 million project
which is to make Victoria independent of
New South Wales for gas-coal, but appar-
ently he was able to banish that from
his mind, along with the Eildon Weir and
the Kiewa hydroelectric scheme, so as
to leave it clear for the job of concen-
trating on his grouch.
His picture was an entirely false one.
All the loan-money raised in the last few
years has gone to the States, Victoria
getting its fair share—in the opinion of
some of the Premiers, more than its fair
share. In addition, the Commonwealth
Government has supplemented the loan-
money out of its own funds to the extent
of some hundreds of millions. Its reward
has been abuse from “Labor” Premiers
like Cahill, Gair and Cain and, in the
course of the election campaign, frpm
every “Labor” financial “expert” from
Dr. Evatt upwards. If it had not helped-
out in this way and if it had not financed
its own works out of revenue, State works
would certainly have suffered a big set-
back.
In contrast to Mr. Cain’s whingeing
Premier Playford had a different story.
He listed the works that had been carried
out in South Australia in the past few
years and the programme envisaged for
the coming year and said that
tbe fact that this and the other States of
the Commonwealth have been able to go
forward with their Important works is en-
tirely dne to the policy of the present Com-
monwealth Government which has made
available to the States out of its own
revenues very large sums of money each
year, augmenting the amounts we have
been able to obtain from the loan market.
At Loan Council meetings Mr. Play-
ford, like other Premiers, argues strenu-
ously to obtain for his State the maximum
amount he can, but once the amount is
fixed, he sets to work to do the best he
can with it, instead of indulging in pipe-
dreams about what he would do if he
had double or treble the funds.
Playford was able to say last week:
Not many years ago this State was re-
garded by its own citizens as a place with
a limited future. Now, everyone here
realises that South Australia is the up-and-
coming State of the Commonwealth, and
we have a reputation, even in other States,
for being progressive.
That is quite true, and most of the
thanks for the change must go to Play-
ford himself. The example of his drive,
his optimism and his faith in his State
has infected the great mass of South Aus-
tralians, giving them a belief in the future
of South Australia.
What encouragement can Victorians
derive from the miserable whingeing of
their Premier?
From Both Sides
A world Communistic organisation is
beginning to form itself into a grimmer
pattern as the cold war comes into full
flower in the Central American
Republics.
It is no accident that the movement
has begun there at this juncture, first in
British Guiana, where it was quickly
checked after achieving power, and
spreading to Guatemala, which has be-
come a half-breed Communist-dominated
Power—it used to be a favorite ally of
Dr. Evatt in the days when he ruled the
world—and threatening to move on
Nicaragua and Honduras.
The cause for fear is all too real that
Moscow is doing its best to build a
beach-head within easy reach of the
Panama Canal, one which the Americans
could not assail as an infringement of
the Monroe doctrine, because it was a
“local freedom movement.” It would
provide a highly strategic situation for
air-bases between the two American con-
Tinents and overlooking the Panama
Canal, a waterway indispensable to suc-
cessful war in the Pacific and South-East
Asia on a large scale.
Shipments of arms from behind the
Iron Curtain are no novelty in the
Americas; but the situation seems to
have developed to a point that they are
connected not with a long-term but with
some immediate plan, and the United
States has taken vigorous steps to warn-
off those engaged in the traffic and to
display U.S. air-power and its long reach
by flying a flight of B-36, ten-engined,
world-range atom-bombers from Texas
over Nicaragua, within sight and hear-
ing of some Guatemalans, and then taking
them home again without landing.
The closing-in movement on the other
side of the Pacific is illustrated by a
statement of Laurence Short, secretary of
the Federated Ironworkers’ Association,
just back from a world tour, who said
that the Petrov Commission should be
widened to include inquiry into the
liaison between Australian Communist
trade-union leaders and the Communists
of Indonesia.
This association is not new. The Far
Eastern Bureau of the Comintern was
founded as far back as 1922, when the
only white members of the original body
were J. S. Garden (fresh from his
triumph in saddling, “Labor” with its
socialisation objective), Tom Payne and
W. P. Earsman, three Australians. For
a time Garden was the Soviet Consul-
General in Australia, passing all travel-
lers who wished to go to the Soviet
Union or needing accreditation to Com-
munists in foreign countries. And Com-
munist Pan-Pacific Trade Union H.Q.
were established under his aegis in
1926-27 to organise all the countries
north of this continent to fight colonial
aggression.
Ali the “freedom movements” which
have cost so many innocent lives in the
past few years through civil war began
with the Eastern Bureau and its offspring
and the Indonesian “Merdeka” move-
ment, which resulted in the ousting of
the Dutch and the establishment of the
unstable military dictatorship which calls
itself the “Indonesian Republic” had its
beginnings during the war in Australia,
when its heads were organised and
tutored under the auspices of the Com-
munist Party of Australia, a body which
promoted its ends in savage fury with-
out the slightest interruption from the
“Labor” Government of the day.
If Communism gets its hold on the
islands within bombing distance of Aus-
tralia, Australia can blame itself and the
attitude of “Labor,” which for 30 years
gave it a base.
Housing in Maoriland
Throughout the post-war years build-
ing-costs in New Zealand have defied all
efforts to control them, and today, after
nearly a year’s intensive housing cam-
paign by Government and private enter-
prise, homeseekers are still getting i
the neck. Even the latest and much-puD-
licised drive to “build your own home
has yielded little in practical results,
mainly because of bottlenecks in materials
which are a greater problem for indi-
viduals battling along on their own than
for master-builders and residential-con-
struction concerns, although they’re still
difficult enough at times for these.
There have always been people with a
will to work at weekends, during holidays
and at other odd times to get a new
home, but the great majority prefer either
to remain as tenants if they can’t afford
to build or to wait until they’ve saved
enough to qualify for a loan. A propor-
tion of one-third has been generally re-
garded a§ a safe and proper one as the
owner’s equity, but as costs have soared
the outlay on a good standard house and
site in the main centres has been so high
that only about one borrower-in ten has
been able to qualify. Therefore 90 p.c.
loans are being granted under the £2OOO
State-guaranteed mortgage plan, which
was the biggest step taken last year. The
extra money and more liberal arrange-
ments for bank-overdrafts have had the
effect of pepping-up demand and delay-
ing the day when supplies will be suffi-
cient to meet it.
If bottlenecks don’t hamstring building
as they once did, shortages of materials
are still a nuisance. In the conditions
that obtain today, with the 40-hour five-
day week, lack of skilled men, under-
staffing and consequent underproduction
in factories, and the hampering effects
of controls of one kind and another, only
supermen could speed up house-building,
and builders are not supermen.
Materials like bricks, cement, plaster,
some of the best lines of timber, and cer-
tain lines of hardware have been subject
tp recurring shortages for so long that
jobs in progress proceed haltingly. If the
materials are there on time, it’s as likely
as not that there’ll be a hold-up because
key men don’t arrive when they’re wanted.
The cement trouble is of long standing,
because of one delay after another en-
countered in equipping the industry to
double output and to make N.Z. self-sup-
porting with a production of half-a-million
tons yearly. Users of cement were again
on starvation rations occasionally in the
past few months, and supplies had to be
brought in hurriedly from abroad. It’s
ironical that cement-production, which is
to rid N.Z. of one of its worst and most
persistent bottlenecks, has been itself
held up by shortages, but at last there’s
light ahead, as it now seems certain that
increasing quantities will "be turned out by
new plant in the latter part of this year.
Timber is being milled on a record
scale, but the building trade is not always
able to get the right lines when it wants
them. Bricks are a tough proposition.
Brick construction is reasonably low in
first cost, by today’s standards, and is the
commonsense course in face of the ever-
increasing ravages of termite and inflated
maintenance on wood houses, but limits
are set by brick-production, which has
been trailing behind demand ever since
Maoriland launched its housing-drive.
Altogether, building has plenty of
obstacles to surmount before it can be
speeded-up much. On the cost side, trans-
port is a big item, which is growing, as
high wages and taxation are passed on
in increased road- and rail-freight rates.
Nationalisation. Troubles
From London: There are long faces here,
with ample justification, over the dol-
drums in the nationalised services. The
sour and implacable parochialism which
so persistently infects the lower ranges of
the soft-cushioned industries has broken
out again in the Western Region of British
Railways.
A few hundred men, mainly locomo-
tive-drivers, have come out on strike
because they object to a possible exten-
sion of “lodging-turns,” which would
mean a slight increase on the present
rate of one night away from home in
ten. Their case is a slender one, and
they know it, so the strongest argument
they can advance is their fear that this
increase is the “thin end of the wedge”
towards pre-war conditions (when 4\ p.c.
of all duty turns involved sleeping away
from home, compared with less than
1 p.c. today). They want to be taken off
at intermediate stations so that they may
travel back the same day as passengers.
And they hope that the hold-up of steel,
coal, raw materials and perishable food
will force the Transport Commission into
giving way.. (The inconvenience to indi-
vidual businessmen, spending nights
(Continued on next page)


[For electoral matter in this issue requiring
signature, David Adams, of 252 George-street,
Sydney, is responsible.]
9NIINiHd
NOQNOI
M3N
YOU, TOO, CAN OWN THE
WORLD’S GREATEST SINGLE SOURCE OF KNOWLEDGE—
Encyclopaedia Britannica
* 25 VOLUMES
* 26,400 PAGES
* 400,000 INDEXED
REFERENCES
* 4,100 CONTRIBUTORS
* 25,964 ILLUSTRATIONS
WORLD ATLAS
By easy monthly payments you can become the
proud owner of this great work of reference.
It is a Reference Library which can truly lead
you and your children on the way to success in
life. No home is complete without it. Remem-
ber Encyclopaedia Britannica is the only
Encyclopaedia which is kept constantly up-to-
date for its owners and provides them with a
FREE library and research service. Post
Coupon for full information.
ALL 25 VOLUMES DELIVERED IMMEDIATELY ON PAYMENT OF DEPOSIT
TO ENCYCLOPAEDIC PUBLICATIONS PTY. LTD.,
Box 5265, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please give me information about Encyclopaedia
Britannica and your Easy to Own Plan.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.9.6.4.
away from home, and to other passengers,
does not, apparently, affect the issue.)
The Transport Commission refuses to
yield, and the men’s unions won’t recog-
nise the strike. In truth, it is hard for
either to conceive any alternative. The
unions have gained every concession that
was dear to the men’s hearts, including
nationalisation. And just before Christ-
mas last year, the “Railway Munich” con-
ceded immediate wage-increases on con-
dition that management and men co-
operated in raising productivity.
Never was public resentment so high
or patience so worn. Guards and
waiters accept their short absences from
home as part of their jobs, and other
railway-workers offer no objection to
night shifts. Why, indeed, become an
engine-driver if you don’t like travelling?
The National Coal Board’s annual
report for 1953 has also met with a
markedly downcast reception, although
the difference is that its purport is
general, not particular. No progress has
been made. The year’s output failed to
exceed that of 1952, notwithstanding that
in five years over £2OO million sterling
has been alloted to the collieries in one
form or another. A further “conditional”
wage-increase was granted last January—
conditional upon a 2 i p.c. increase in
output. Yet production to date is already
below last year’s, and next winter’s sup-
plies are in jeopardy.
It seems rather odd that coal, once a
great source of wealth, is now our chief
inflationary factor. For when the price is
raised, seemingly every few months, it
touches off a general round of extra pen-
nies and twopences. For some time now
retail prices have kept fairly stable. If
the nationalised industries were subject
to the same influences and restraints as
private concerns this price-level might
even have been reduced.
POLITICAL POINTS
Offered the biggest string of electoral
bribes ever dangled before their eyes, the
Australian electors had the good sense
to reject them. Saturday’s vote was a
triumph of sanity over irresponsibility,
Menzies can take full credit for his
Government’s retention of power. Dur-
ing the campaign it was evident that
Evatt’s promises were making a consider-
able impact on the electorate, and efforts
were made by some of the Prime Minis-
ter’s party and by a section of his fair-
weather friends of the Press to persuade
him to counter this by giving definite
figures for tax-reductions. Menzies
steadfastly refused, saying that he would
not go on the auction-block for votes.
He relied on the commonsense of the
people, and the result justified his attitude.
© e
On Monday only three seats —St.
George (N.S.W.), Sturt (S.A.) and Swan
(W.A.) to be written-off as definitely
lost by the Government, and, against those
it had won Flinders (Vic.), and probably
Wannon (Vic.) and Hume (N.S.W.). Its
candidates had the figures against them
in Lawson (N.S.W.), Griffith (Q.), and
Bass (Tas.), but were still in the hunt with
several thousand votes to come in each
electorate. Fawkner (Vic.) was still a
possible Government gain, and in Eden-
Monaro (N.S.W.) and Leichhardt (Q.)
“Labor” was having anxious thoughts
about the outstanding votes.
® ©
Predictions as to the effect of the shift
in population from the near-city to outer-
suburban electorates weren’t borne out
by the voting. The general feeling was
that the “Labor” vote in the former group
would drop, and that Liberals holding
once-safe seats on the fringe of the
capitals would find themselves hard-
pressed. It didn’t turn out that way.
In N. S. Wales, East Sydney, Kingsford
Smith and Parkes were three “Labor”
electorates in which enrolments had fallen
by several thousand since 1951, yet all
three were won easily—the last two by
thousands, instead of hundreds as in 1951.
The “fringe” seats Mitchell and Robert-
son—half-metropolitan, half-country —
conformed more to the pattern forecast
for them ; but on Monday their Liberal
holders were hopeful that the lagging
votes from outlying booths would confirm
their tenure for another three years.
Among those who had felt some appre-
hension over their swollen electorates
were two Ministers, R. G. Casey (Lat-
robe) and Jos. Francis (Moreton, Q-)-
They needn’t have worried; both took
the lead early in the count and won by
thousands. Two other Victorian seats in
this category were Deakin and Isaacs,
spoken of as possible Liberal losses. Held
with increased majorities.
Perth, another shrunken electorate,
repeated the story of East Sydney and its
neighbor. Swan, that of Robertson—ex-
cept that it didn’t end happily for Gray-
den, the Liberal who held it in the last
two Parliaments.
» e
Two of the four former “Labor” Minis-
ters who were trying for a comeback
managed to make it. Nelson Lemmon,
at his second attempt, took St. George
(N.S.W.) from Bruce Graham and Nor-
man Makin beat K. C. Wilson in Sturt
(S.A.). Makin was Speaker in Scullin’s
time. Minister for the Navy under Curtin,
and was Australian Ambassador in
Washington 1946-51.
Dedman went under to bike-rider
Opperman in Corio for the third time in
succession (surely he’ll call it a day
now?), and Frank Forde’s bid for Wide
Bay (Q.) won’t necessitate a recount.
• ®
When the Maxwell Liquor Commission
was front-page news the names of two
mysterious personages George and Peter
were frequently mentioned. Peter hasn’t
been heard of since, but George has
apparently migrated to Melbourne. At
least, when a waiter was charged in the
Melbourne City Court with stealing by
means of altering the amounts shown on
customers’ dockets, he explained that he
had learnt the system from “George, a
German waiter.”
• •
In New Guinea an administration patrol
has come across a native tribe which
isn’t interested in civilisation, which prac-
tises a philosophy of live-and-let-live and
asks only to be left alone. They seem to
be the wisest people discovered for many
a long day!
NEWS-SUMMARY
“It says: ‘Here is the news: Big walkabout done finish...Bob
Menzies him still big chief...Bert Evatt he gammon altogether
too much...Ezra Norton back loser...Calwell him point bone in
caucus...Artie Fadden okay...'”
They’ve suppressed housie-housie ka
Victoria, but now a new game, called
“horsey,” has bobbed its head up, Cain
has “called for a report.”
• •
“Horsey” has already brought from
A.L.P. secretary Lovegrove the comment
that “Labor” will not tolerate substitutes
for housie and that the party exists for
social reform, not for the legalising of
rackets. Now how could that idea have
got around?
• •
The Mascot incident of the Mrs. Petrov
story has been publicised in Polish news-
paper, with some slight variations from
the version accepted here. An extract:
After the escape of the Third Secretary
of the U.S.S.R. Embassy, Pdtrov-nan ordin-
ary criminal —the Australian authorities let
loose a wild anti-Soviet hunt and have
organised the abduction of Petrov’s wife
who wanted to return to Soviet Russia. A
group of Australian Fascists, assisted
actively by the police, abducted Mrs. Petrov
from the airfield. (See picture.)
The picture shows Mrs. Petrov firmly
held by the “Fascists.” It is a photo
already well-known to all readers of Aus-
tralian papers. The “Fascists” are the
Soviet courier, Karpinsky, and Santo, a
chauffeur from the Russian Embassy in
Canberra.
• •
While waiting for his audience at War-
ragul (Vic.) Dr. Evatt, according to the
Melbourne “Herald,” “entertained early-
comers by playing ‘The Old Hundredth’
on the piano in the hall.” Quite a com-
mendable effort, but “Pennies from
Heaven” would have been a more appro-
priate choice.
• •
The reversion of Flinders to the
Government should not have caused
much surprise. When Ewert won it for
“Labor” at the by-election in October,
1952, the Government’s stocks were at
their lowest point and, although his
majority was 3000, a fact that was over-
looked was that it was an abnormally low
poll, over 4000 electors staying home. As
“Labor” campaigned so enthusiastically
on that occasion it is reasonable to assume
that most of these were Liberal supporters
browned-off towards the Government, but
reluctant to vote “Labor.” On Saturday,
they were back at the old stand.
• •
Westralia has thrown open as a “special
settlement area” 2% million acres of
coastal land around Esperance, on the
Great Australian Bight. It comprises a
strip of land between No. 1 rabbit-proof
fence and Israelite Bay, about 200 miles
eastward, and extending 30 to 40 miles
inland. The Esperance-Coolgardie rail-
way bisects the area, which has an annual
rainfall of about 20in.
• •
Veterans of Korea and Malaya, and
widows of men who served there, have
been given further opportunities of seek-
ing re-establishment training. More than
850 applications have been received for
professional, vocational or rural training,
and many trainees under this scheme are
already well-advanced in their courses.
• •
In Britain television-viewers recently
watched a dentist extract a tooth without
an anesthetic, the patient being put into a
hypnotic trance. According to the report
the girl patient felt no pain and woke up
smiling. What an excellent way to imple-
ment Dr. Evatt’s financial proposals!
• •
This election, the third since the en-
largement of the Representatives, will be
the last conducted on the 1949 boun-
daries ; the census to be taken on June
30 will be the basis for the next redis-
tribution, which will probably effect big
changes in the capital-city electorates and
possibly the loss of a seat by Queensland
to N.S. Wales or Victoria.
• •
Not much has been announced recently
of the impending U.S. naval survey to
our north, but in the meantime two
R.A.N. vessels have left Sydney for simi-
lar duties. H.M.A.S. Barcoo is to survey
an area inside the Great Barrier Reef
between North Keppel Island, 50 miles
north of Gladstone, and the Percy Islands,
150 miles to the n.-n.-w. She will be
assisted by two tenders, and will spend
three months on the job. H.M.A.S.
Warrego has gone to complete the
Exmouth Gulf survey begun in 1952. This
task will also take three months.
• •
Famous First Words: When Sir Arthur
Fadden emerged from his blackout on the
roadside near Gatton (Q.) after his acci-
dent and heard the call go out for a doctor,
he rallied smartly and exclaimed: “Not
Dr. Evatt, please.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
CJKIERS are stoking their gall-bags and
tuning bile-ducts, for, of all sports,
ski-ing features the utmost negation of
the team-spirit. Most skiers only pretend
to like each other; actually, they spend
their holiday praying their friends may
come a gutser. The sport is lonely be-
cause its very speed makes it impossible
to ski with anybody. When ski-ing you
are as alone as that Abominable worthy
in whom Sydney “Sun” is so interested.
Prinzhorn, noted German psychiatrist,
generalised: “Whatever else he may be,
the neurotic is always lonely.” Perhaps
ski-ing is not a sport, but a symptom!
“Sno.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Eastlakes”; Another injustice to
Scotland was averted in the nick of time
when the Royal and Ancient at St.
Andrews was about to hit-off on the first
medal-round of the year. The custom
since the oldest member can remember is
to fire a cannon when the first medal-
player hits-off in the first round of the
year, and fire it again when the last putt
drops at the end of the competition. Well,
on the night of May 13 the gun was
mounted by the first tee (old course), but
when the next morn dawned it had been
pinched. While greenkeepers, caddies and
gillies rushed hither and yon, the match-
committee gravely considered whether or
not it was a retaliation by the Sassenach
for the pinching of the Stone of Scone
last year, and pibrochs were faintly heard
in far bunkers. Just when it looked as
though the 200th anniversary of the club
would have to begin in silence, somebody
“Lucky the window's there."
found the cannon, on the balcony of a
near-by swimming-pool, its ancient snout
pointing out to sea. A trio of ’keepers
rushed thither with a barrow, dismantled
the piece, put the bits in the barrow, gal-
loped back to the club, put the thing to-
gether again and fired her just as Col.
McLeod, shaken by the narrow escape,
drove the first ball. However, the tension
didn’t stop J. C. Wilson, Walker Cup
player and international, from setting a
new medal-record of 68 over the old
course. On plus 2, he gets the Silver
Cross of St. Andrew for the medal-win
and the Kangaroo’s Paw for the lowest
net. Aye, they take the game seriously
amang the heather. But whoinell dragged
, the dashed gun to the baths?
I
“Viper”: The attempt to eat the cuckoo
out of a cuckoo-clock made by a Queens-
land carpet-snake suggests that this State
may no longer be the cultural waste her
rivals like to think: for here is a theme
which even Salvador (“Softwatches”)
Dali might tackle reverently! Dali has
lately been accused of being “old-fash-
ioned” in the symbolism of such pictures
as “Debris of an Automobile Giving
Birth to a Dead Horse Biting a Tele-
phone”; even if the snake and the cuckoo
are not so broad a subject, Mr. Dali
could claim that he was now painting
real life and once more in the swim. Fur-
thermore, always so expertly academic in
his portrayal of the unacademic, he’d revel
in the snake’s Laocoonisms—squashing
the cogs from its Swiss-born prey.
*> ❖ *>
“Balwyn”: When it eventually arrives
in Australia television will no doubt bring
with it novel experiences and phenomena.
An odd one lately happened in New
York. A man reported that his children
were scared by a shadowy face which
appeared continually on the screen,
whether the set was turned on or off.
An expert was called in. It was found
that a mechanical fault had impressed
the features of a singer on the TV screen
during her performance. The engineer
forecast the “ghost’s” disappearance with-
in several days. He was right.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Og”: Packed tram passing through a
Sydney suburb. From a side-street a
youth dashed in front of a fast-moving
truck and a car which was overtaking
it; made a flying leap at the wrong side
of my compartment; slipped on the foot-
board ;• was hauled inside an inch or
so ahead of the tram coming towards
us. Expelling pent-up breath, I realised
I needn’t have worried. On his lapel he
wore a badge, issued by a motoring asso-
ciation. It carried the exhortation:
“Safety first. Always be careful!”
♦jt
“Ex-teleg.”; Odd telegrams? A majority
of my collection concerned death; pos-
sibly stress of circumstances blinded
senders to unsuitability of wording.
“Father dying. Will wire again when '
dead,” is an example. Sydney people
wired to relations in the country: “Dad
no hope. If dies will bring body home
for burial.” An hour later came the re-
ply : “Bring Dad home dead or alive.” A
Sydney bookmaker wired: “Nell injured
motor accident. Hasn’t a hundred-to-one
chance.” But Nell floored the odds; I
met her at Rooty Hill coursing-ground
two years afterwards. A Sydney family
and country relations exchanged houses
for six months. Shortly came a telegram
from the country: “Found and finished
cherry-brandy. What else is hidden, and
where?” Another, “Send some money
and a clean pair of pants. Am on the
booze,” was plainly put. “Went broke at
the races. Ask some of the boys to wire
me £2,” read a telegram from Sydney to
Bourke. The town ran true to form, for
during that afternoon I handled 22
replies.
*> *> *t*
“Gambit”: Reported that a New Zea-
land marine-man reckons that sailors
wearing nylon underclothes can cause
magnetic compass-needles to oscillate vio-
lently, Apart from the oscillations this
sartorial disclosure would have caused in
the mess-deck of my day, it oscillated my
memory. In his youth Willie, a hairy-
chested giant, had been struck by light-
ning ; some electrical property of the dis-
charge must have remained with him, for
soap, when applied to his weatherburned
dial, would curdle like milk when acid is
added. Also possessed of a curious faculty
for stopping timepieces, Willie left a trail
of watches gone haywire behind him.
The mobile magnetic lines of force he
toted round with him brought some com-
pensation—he was never allowed a trick
on the wheel. You might as well have
dropped a tonnage of iron-ore on the
bridge as send him up there.
“0.G.”: That joke-block of two
barbers cutting each other’s hair (B.
19/5/’54) brought back a war-time scene
on a ship at Abadan, in the Persian Gulf.
Sixteen cargo-coolies finished their scran
and formed a circle, squatting on a hatch.
Each got busy with both hands on the
tangled skull-skein of the man in front.
But they weren’t doing any hairdressing.
Chatting was the object—or, more cor-
rectly, de-chatting!
»1< +!♦
“Muskeen”: When I was a boy one of
the grim forebodings about juvenile
smoking (B. 19/5/’54) was that it would
stunt your growth. I wish it had. I com-
menced smoking—lo for 3d. —at the
'age of 10 with the canon’s sons, under
a pittosporum in the vicarage garden. In
spite of this my growth did not receive a
“stunt” until I had reached the length of
seventy-eight inches, some of which I
would, if I could, dispense with thank-
fully.
“Smoko”: In the days when I first
acquired the habit we preferred a
“weed” (rolled in a page of thin paper
from a prayer-book) obtained from the
fruit of a tree which has closely tomen-
tose young branches and scattered, some-
times irregularly verticillate, oblong-cune-
ate or lanceolate, entire or irregularly-
toothed leaves. It flowers in oblong or
cylindrical spikes and the fruit is an
oblong-cylindrical cone of several follicles.
Maybe ex-kids of my vintage may not
immediately recognise the honeysuckle or
coast-banksia, but I’ll wager most of ’em
who knocked round the bush where it
grows sampled it as an introduction to the
more refined Lady Nicotine.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Artfal”; Despite “Ceg’s” sighting of
sovereigns (B. 12/5/’54), I’ve found the
coin as elusive as hen’s molars. Incident-
ally, sovereigns are still minted in Eng-
land, but not for issue. About every 15
years a limited quantity is struck and
added to the gold-reserve. As the tech-
nique is so different from that used in
turning out other currency, and calls for
such extreme precision (a new sov. must
weigh 123.27447 grains), this token-mint-
ing is done so that the art will not be
lost. The only coin I’ve been able to
acquire bearing the impressive George-
and-Dragon design is that majestic cart-
wheel of 1887 the Jubilee crown piece.
“Bass”; One big reason why you don’t
see many sovereigns around now is that
it’s illegal to hold more than twenty-five
quid’s worth of gold in any form. That’s
about seven sovereigns, and on that count
“Ceg’s” Hebe was guilty of a serious
crime in keeping 60 of ’em—about 200
quid’s worth—in a tin behind the bar.
The relevant Act was passed in 1945 ana
provides for a £lOOO fine or a five-year
stretch. Under this Act you have to turn-
in any gold you acquire, in excess or £ZS,
within a month of its coming into your
possession. Doesn’t apply, of course, to
jewellers, dentists and such. Almost all
newly-won gold is sold to Australia s two
mints—Perth and Melbourne.
♦♦♦ *X* ♦♦♦
“J.J.A.”: Agree with “Gor Don (B.
19/5/’54) as to the “absurd depths to
which the “corollary of licences and per-
mits” has fallen, but I have no trouble
buying books from Britain. Just run a
trading account there and send a cheque
over. Nor is there any difficulty in trans-
ferring money to the British bank for the
avowed purpose of buying books, though
I think the limit is £2OO per year. I have
not been asked for a permit or import
licence of any type, and the books always
arrive safely. But then, I do not trans-
act business through either the Com-
monwealth Bank or the G.P.O. I tried
it once —they told me to' get import-
licences !
❖ *l* ❖
“Soc.”: A Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
poster informs me: “Clergyman Backs
Sunday Trading.” If he’ll take my advice
he won’t touch it at any price. When I
did so on the N.S.W. North Coast it got
its teeth caught in the two-strand barrier
and stayed there. And it’d be a lot longer
in the tooth now, because that happened
the best part of 30 years back. I’m sur-
prised to hear the big fellow’s still racing.
HjJjH
“Airs-crew”; The Viking Press of New
York published a series of books con-
taining works by such American writers
as Hemingway, Scott Fitzgerald, Stein-
beck, Walt Whitman. Pocket-sized and
well-bound, they form the Viking Port-
able Library. An admirer of the man who
outlined the general principles of the de-
tective-story, I was pleased to note that
his stories were available in one volume.
However, I was unprepared for the book-
shop assistant’s reaction when I asked,
“Do you have The Portable Poe?”
*** +♦♦
“Bo”: Whilst it may generally be true
that the composer is at the mercy of his
lyric-writer (B, 19/5/ ’54), the truism
doesn’t apply to genius. Schubert, who in
his 31 years wrote just on 600 songs,
started off at 17 by setting the poems of
Goethe. His “Gretchen am Spinnrade”
and the “Erlkonig,” written the next year,
are among his finest songs. At 26 he read
a book of poems by a third-rate poet
named Muller, revolting examples of sen-
timental nonsense which Schubert’s
supreme genius for the song-form meta-
morphosed into one of the most charming
song-cycles extant; “Die Schone Miil-
lerin.” The year before he died Schubert
came upon the same “poet’s” “Winter-
reise,” comprising 24 pieces, over which
hangs like a “pall a monotonous whining
self-pity. Out of this the master fashioned
a work of surpassing loveliness, capped by
a song—“ Der Leiermann” (“The Organ-
grinder”)—which remains one of the
marvels of the lied. There has been no
more roaring bunk put in the hands
of any composer than the libretto thrown
together by Schikaneder. Out of it
Mozart wrought one of the most spark-
ling operas: “The Magic Flute.” And
only a Moussorgsky could have com-
posed a song of such biting power as “The
Song of the Flea” from such words, or
turned the pure satire of “The Seminarist”
into immortality in sound.
DOOMSDAY
“A crowd of black-robed men and women
tried to invade the Vatican because they feared
the world would end on Monday night.”
It’s rather pointed, bookies say,
To end the world on settling-day.
Landlords, perhaps, would be content
To sit pat on the morning’s rent,
But it would break the housewife’s spirit
To do the wash, and none to wear it,
And unionists —how it would irk
To get no pay for Monday’s work:
A serious matter, that might even
Precipitate a strike in Heaven!
And so the world’s end must not fall
On any working-day at all,
For though on Friday workers gain
Landlords and tradesmen would complain.
Thus only the weekends remain,
And what a grave industrial crime
To interfere with leisure-time,
Unless the Last Trump-blower states
That Doomsday’s paid at double rates I
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


■FOLLOWING the reported opinion of
a Melbourne restaurant head-waiter
that diners (presumably of opposite sexes)
should kiss between courses, the chief
dietitian of a large hospital in the same
city guardedly agreed that “peace and
harmony are desirable for proper diges-
“He is handsome, unmarried , has a charming smile and speaks divinely .”
tion.” Without wanting to appear cynical,
I find it noteworthy, in the face of such
expert views, that the ratio of stomach-
ulcers as between married and single men
is something like eight-to-one in favor
of the latter, while male sufferers of dis-
ordered stomachs outnumber female by
almost the same margin. These figures
look significant when the medical profes-
sion is practically unanimous that the
causes of stomach ailments are mostly
emotional.—“P.O.M.C.”
“Gard”: On graves outside recognised
cemeteries (B. 19/5/ ’54), the Australian
countryside is dotted with them —in par-
ticular, the goldfields of the early ’fifties
of last century. At Maryborough, in
central Victoria, there is a collection of
many such humble, unmarked graves at
the foot of the Pioneers’ Memorial on
Bristol Hill. There are no records to show
who fie there. The original sheep-runs,
before the days of the selectors, also
had their share of them, though usually
some sort of stone or slab was erected.
One, I remember, held the bodies of both
the run-owners’ wife and his favorite
horse.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Bill Bee”: Air-Marshal Tedder was
probably pulling cricketer Fingleton’s leg
when he told him he was refused admis-
sion to the A.I.F. in 1914 because he
was a Pommy (Red Page 12/5/’54).
Statistics show that in 1918 at least one
in four Diggers were originally Pommies,
and on Gallipoli in 1915 the proportion
would be nearer one in three.
£+ ♦>
“Ceg”: On that use of “Doctor” (B.
19/5/’54). Back when most medicoes at
the top end of Melbourne’s Collins-street
were located in the old houses which then
graced that leafy quarter, many of the
brass-plates had smaller plates riveted on
just where the word “Dr.” would have
appeared before the practitioner’s name.
Reason was that someone had objected
to the use of the title by those holding
less than the degree of M.D. Apparently
the objector had the law on his side. To-
day the title seems to be generally
accorded whatever the qualification.
There is an exception—top-ranking sur-
geons are professionally dubbed “Mr.”
♦Jt * $
LONDON LOITER
AN Englishman we know in Sydney
wrote to his sister in Warwickshire
telling her we were coming. With her
husband she motors to London, collects
us, and takes us to dinner at the Waldorf.
That’s their form here. Courtesy and
extraordinary kindliness all along the line.
We drink coffee in a lounge bigger
than the ballroom of Sydney Town Hall.
There has been a bad drought. “No
fewer than twenty-one days without rain,”
we learn. “We’ll have water-rationing,
soon! ” “Cheer up,” we say. “Where we
come from we don’t worry if it doesn’t
rain for months.” This is pondered over,
then, “Ah, yes, but you’re used to it.”
“The Times” isn’t sold on the streets. It
must be ordered through a newsagent.
Other morning and evening dailies are
poor by Australian city-daily standards,
Paper-shortage isn’t all to blame; the
space is given to social chit-chat, puzzles,
quips. Almost all the news is purely
parochial. But they sell in millions, just
the same—which proves we aren’t
Londoners,
* * * • '
The thoughtfulness of motor-drivers is
refreshing after the bullying and blasting
of Sydney driving. It is a most rare thing
to hear a motor-horn. Though London
traffic is twice as dense as that of Syd-
ney’s peak-hours, the absence of trams
and horns makes it seem quiet by com-
parison. The road-roundabouts (circuses)
at intersections make driving easy. No
motorist will put a wheel on a zebra-
crossing while a pedestrian has a foot on
it. London roads, only ten years after
“I was so thrilled my nylons disintegrated."
the bombing, are as smooth as velvet. ;
In a fortnight of wandering about we i
didn’t strike one pothole. In Sydney a i
five-minute drive in any direction will
put you into one.
Police-cars, fire-engines and ambu-
lances don’t use sirens. They use ringing,
jingling bells. That’s because sirens would
be too nerve-wracking to people used to
the arrival of bombs and guided missiles
when they heard a siren.
A lady tells us she has lived alterna-
tively in Jamaica, the U.S., and England
for 30 years and has made 21 Atlantic
crossings. She first crossed from England.
“I like you Americans,” she says. “We
are Australians,” says us. “Oh, I’d not
have thought it. Do you live in Sydney?”
“Yes.” “I believe it has a wonderful
harbor. Tell me, do you have those
funny kangaroos hopping about the
streets?” “Not any more,” we tell her,
“but there are wolves at King’s Cross
and Bondi.” This astonishes her, and as
she is in a hurry to attend a seance in a
spiritualist hall we leave her astonished.
Later, at a cocktail-party, a bright
young publisher hears the head-serang of
William Collins say how he went surfing
at Tamarama, then turns to us and asks,
“Have you ever been bitten by a shark?”
We assure him we are among the few
who have escaped that experience.
McNulty, of Consolidated Press, intro-
duces us to Victor Gollancz, who mis-
takes us for Americans and is next instant
smothered under an attack of bubbling
females. McNulty assures us there are
no fewer than 1800 publishers in London,
but doesn’t know how the hell they get
a living.
While searching the “London Weekly
Advertiser” for accommodation, we read
of a “bed-sit., share bath, own gas-ring.
No objection to refined Colonial.” Shar-
ing a bath could have attractive possibili-
ties, but “refined” raises doubts. We get
a nice flat in Chiswick Park. Somebody
lives on the ground-floor, we live on the
first-floor, somebody fives on the floor
above. We’ve been here a week and seen
nobody but ourselves, though we’ve heard
noises from time to time and milk-bottles
and newspapers left at the front-door
below somehow vanish silently and
secretly inside. The milkman astonishes
us by saying he’ll leave the milk and
“collect Sat’dees,” and if we’re not ; in
when he calls, “Doan you worry abart
that, sir.”
Yesterday a stentorian voice came
along the street crying, “Rabbit-oh!
Woild rabbits! ” We rush to the window,
but it isn’t Ginger Mick.
We learn that at the Bath and West
Show in June the fur section has been
cancelled because rabbit-breeders fear the
disease myxomatosis. It keeps us silent
for minutes.
We have lilacs and tulips in bloom in a
tiny garden, and a blackbird comes every
morning to sing on the tall stump of a
tree.
The Nelson Column is a pillar of
pigeon-droppings, and when we suggest
that the clouds of pigeons in Trafalgar
Square ought to be decimated we barely
escape a charge of lese-majesty.
In Bloomsbury Square, close to the
British Museum, an old bloke is casually
sweeping up leaves. A ganger comes and
says, “ ‘Ere, watcher think yer doin’,
countin’ the ruddy leaves?” The old
bloke hunkers down in his three over-
coats. “Yus,” he snaps, “an’ what’s more
I’m five short,”
Looking for Grosvenor Square I en-
counter two distinguished-looking coves
in black homburgs, black overcoats,
striped pants, yellow gloves, and each with
a furled brolly. “Pardon me, am I on the
right track for Grosvenor Square?” The
younger one stops dead. elder eyes
me up and down, and says, “Strike ine,
how long since you left Sydney, mate?
The square was only about 100yds. away,
but “they were open,” and, with the
younger man doing his best, the hom-
burged Australian and I spend an hour.
He’s something in the London Transport
Board and been here since the war.
Dress can trick you. A thin-faced man
in a bowler and black suit, with gloves
and a stick, and looking very much like
a solicitor, is walking through Sicilian-
avenue with a small dark woman dressed
in black silk and wearing a kind of
mantilla. Suddenly he turns to her and
snaps, “Any more of yer ruddy nawsti-
ness, me gel, an’ I’ll knock yer ruddy
head orf; that I will.” She spits fiery
Italian© at him. He lifts the stick and
steps toward her. He sees me watching
him, stops, eyes me off, and says, “Any-
fink I can do fer yew, cock?” I shake my
head and fade round the corner.
London women dress dowdily, have a
tendency to thick legs, and the middle-
aged and older show plainly in their faces
the strain of the blitzes. Bomb-damage,
of course, is still apparent everywhere.
The food is poor, particularly in the
cheaper cafes. Prices in the bigger hotels
are beyond the average Londoner. Butter,
eggs and milk are well ahead of
Sydney in quality. We couldn’t under-
stand the all-prevailing habit of loading
up all meals with chips, until we dis-
covered the butter-ration was ilb. {one-
quarter pound) a head a week. They
have to get an intake of fats and protein,
hence the chips.
After a fortnight in London we Aus-
tralians feel ashamed of the way we’ve
been gorging ourselves for years. But
we’re damn’ annoyed to see Spanish wine
at 6s. (sterling) a bottle, while Australian
wine is anything from 17s. to 225. 6d.
Not over-impressed by television, per-
haps because the programmes don’t appeal
to us. But it is good for sports like
football and boxing. And for ballet and
variety shows.
The sights? Westminster Abbey, Big
Ben, Buckingham Palace, the Mall, Hyde
Park, Marble Arch, Aldwych, the Strand,
the National Gallery, the Tower, Lan-
caster House, the Horse Guards’ Parade,
10 Downing-street, St. Paul’s—well, what
we do is stand and gaze at them and say
to ourselves, “This isn’t a picture or a
model. It’s the real thing!” And go
away looking back at them.
To a bus-conductress we say, “Two to
Southampton Row, and please tell us
when we get there?” “Leave it to me,
guv’nor New ’ere, eh?” “Yes, we’re
from Australia.” “From Owstraha! CoN
What sort of a plice is Bullamakanka?
“Bullamakanka?” “Yus. In the war I
had a boy-friend what was a aircraftsman.
Looked ducky, ’e did, in his blue unee-
form. Loverly feller, reely. That’s where
’e come from, Bullamakanka. So big, ’e
' was, an’ that ’andsome. Clever, too, ’e
: was. But, dear, I’m married an’ got kids
• now. All a gel can do, when she’s like
that, is think abart it, ain’t that so,
guv’nor? . . . Any more fares, please?
, Yus, madam, that’s it, over there. Any
more fares, please.”
I hope that bloke in Bullamakanka also
remembers.
CHARLES SHAW.
REALISTIC APPROACH
“A drama-festival adjudicator has criticised
the lack of vitality in the stage embraces of
actors.”
He who would limn a love-scene on the
boards
Should never be too gentle or too
mincing.
Aggressive, he should hustle
Her, and use a deal of muscle.
Or he’ll appear entirely unconvincing.
The Thespian who’d strike responsive
chords
Must let his vis-a-vis see that he means
it.
Though at first he rouse her terror
He should go by trial-and-error;
It’s experience —and what odds so he
gleans it?
And surely no man in this universe,
With lots of practice at the game, gets
worse !
He should study well the technique of the
Turks
(With special emphasis on old-time
Pashas),
And the Spaniard whose love-making
Shows no slightest sign of faking
As his eyes roll, and his teeth he almost
gnashes.
Let him follow this advice: Give it the
works!
When carmined lips are held up, so
inviting,
Not a peck giv’n like a brother
But a real full-blooded smother,
A snazzy kiss he’ll feel like copyrighting.
Yet prudence calls to let-up on the smack
Before her face begins to go too black.
To make sure that some curtain-calls he’ll
win.
That his performance critics will be
praising,
He should throw her back—no trouble —
Till her spine bends nearly double,
What time into her eyes he’s fondly
gazing.
With fierceness then her dial he should
pin —
What if the buss happens to bust his
denture ?
Better that than drawing hisses
Due to meagre, puerile kisses . . .
Just make of it an amorous adventure.
He can forget the d.c. and the stall,
Rememh’ring there’s no need to act at
all!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The pick
of The bunch
smce
mz
(ytUiltcb'
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Cast up at Tema, a small port 80 miles
west of Accra, on the Gold Coast, Victor
Kenniff can fairly claim to have left a
trail of his works half-way across the
world. His building started when, in 1924,
he was district-engineer in the Public
Works Department in Fiji. Followed
Cyprus, assistant-director of public works;
Palestine, similar post; Hong Kong,
director there, and Legislative Coun-
cillor ; Northern Rhodesia, Com-
missioner for Works. Now he’s been
appointed managing-director of the Tema
Corporation, his job to develop the port
in conjunction with a big hydroelectric
scheme, leading figure in which is an
Australian, Commander Robert Jackson.
Kenniff is a graduate of Sydney Univer-
sity.
• o
A bit over 50 years back John Scott
Philps was pitching hay on his father’s
holding outside a South Australian coun-
try town. Deciding there was not much
hay for him there, he headed for the city ;
got a job pitching out paper from office
baskets with Malcolm D. Reid, the tim-
ber-merchants, and when the firm opened
a furnishing business shifted there, to be-
MAYOR
come in due course chairman of directors
and director of a couple of subsidiary
companies. Also past-president of Rotary,
he’s now Lord Mayor of Adelaide.
• •
“Trinco”: Seems that the first part of
the official British history of the war at
sea, just published, has stirred up some
muddy water —muddy for Churchill, who
(by report) is claimed to have interfered
with the Narvik naval operations and
others; but clearing for Admiral Sir
Dudley North, R.N. (retd.), who reckons
that the history justifies his action in
allowing six French warships through the
Straits of Gibraltar after France’s col-
lapse in 1940. The 72-year-old seadog,
dismissed shortly afterwards from his
post of Admiral Commanding, North
Atlantic, has asked for a court-martial to
prove he was right. First-lieutenant of
battle-cruiser New Zealand at the battle
of Heliogoland, he was the giant’s second-
in-command at the Dogger Bank and
Jutland. Long association with the Royal
family included a visit to Australia as
equerry to the Prince of Wales in 1920,
command of the Royal Yacht, and com-
mand of the Royal Squadron for the
King and Queen’s tour of Canada and the
U.S. in 1939. His first wife was a Sydney
woman.
• •
R. R. Pavia joined the Geelong (Vic.)
Gordon Institute of Technology in 1922,
head of the mathematics and physics
departments. He had been principal for
the past 20 years when he retired the
other day. His father before him had
been in the same field, one-time staff-
inspector and organiser of Central
Schools.
The agerlimit has caught up with Sub-
Inspector Frank Fahey, holder of two
King’s Medals for bravery, the only
Queensland policeman with that distinc-
tion. Back in 1916 he caught a thief in
a butcher’s-shop, armed with a butcher’s-
knife. Knife regardless, Fahey went for ■
him. Left ear partly sliced-off, deep
gash in his head, and got his man. Fifteen
years later he took on an armed criminal
at Breakfast Creek, in the face of rapid-
fire revolver-shooting. A civilian helper
fell with a slug in his leg. Ducking and
weaving, Fahey bore in. This effort
brought him the British Empire King’s
Police Medal; that for the earlier bravery
had been a State award. As widely-known
in Queensland as the badge he wore all
his working life, Fahey now retires.
• •
Ralph Hodgson, awarded the Queen’s
Medal for 1954 at the age of 83, is a
Yorkshireman who stopped writing poetry
in 1917. One of the foremost of the
Georgian poets, he won the £IOO Polignac
Prize in 1914 for his poems “The Song of
Honor” and “The Bull.” Most of his few
poems have a soft, mystical quality, not
much appreciated by the harder and more
precise poets who followed him. His love
of animals and intense hatred of cruelty
is summed-up in his much-anthologised
piece “The Bells of Heaven.” He has
been a draughtsman on a London paper,
editor of a magazine and co-founder of
the Sign of Flying Fame Press, and was
lecturer in English Literature at Sendai,
Japan, in 1924. An amateur of billiards,
a boxing enthusiast; and at present living
in Ohio (U.S.A.).
• 9
“Fitz”: Jack McLaren, gone on at Brighton
(Eng.), was a Bulletin contributor before he
made his name as an author in England and
America: as “McNorth” he wrote acres of
“Aboriginalities” pars, and many vivid South
Sea stones. Son of a Presbyterian clergyman,
he was at Scotch College, Melbourne, before
travelling widely about the Pacific, managing
copra-plantations and tasting the joys and
pains of beachcombing, experience which fur-
nished him (like Louis Becke, Ralph Stock,
Ernest Osborne and other Bulletin writers)
with an endless supply of plots and characters.
His first book, My Odyssey (1923), was an
immediate success. In it he related his experi-
ences as owner of a pearling-lugger, wrecked
off New Guinea. Three years later he published,
in similar vein, My Crowded Solitude, recount-
ing experiences on Cape York, where he lived
eight years in a house he built himself. He
cleared 100 acres of jungle, planted coconut-
palms, and settled down to watch and record
the lives of his aboriginal neighbors.
McLaren was a fast writer; in less than
a year after his return to Australia from his
Pacific wanderings he turned out six serials.
In all, he authored more than 40 books, many
of which were translated into other languages
and some made into films or broadcast. Sixty-
six at the last.
• •
Passed on in London, Frederick
Doidge, New Zealand High Commis-
sioner there. In the N.Z. Press-gallery at
22 (for Auckland “Star”), he was in Aus-
tralia in 1933 as director of Lord Beaver-
brook’s campaign to promote Empire
trade, Doidge first got in touch with the
newspaper millionaire when the latter was
head of Britain’s War I Ministry of In-
formation. Beaverbrook’s job then was to
keep the Lion’s tail erect in the dark days,
and Doidge, sergeant with the Enzed
Division, was drafted into that service.
His alertness and tremendous energy so
impressed his chief that when the war
was over there was no question of his
going back to his old Press job. Beaver-
brook put him on his own circulation
staff, and soon made him a director of the
“Daily Express,” and later of the “Even-
ing Standard.” Always desirous of retir-
ing at 50, and one year behind schedule,
Doidge returned home, his arrival in
N.Z. coinciding with an election. He
missed his first shot at politics, but
brought it off in 1938, member for Taur-
anga. He was back in London in 1951,
High Commissioner. Though raised in
Fernland, he was Australian by birth —
his father for many years ran the paper
at Cootamundra (N.S.W.). Seventy at
the end, Doidge rose Sir Frederick in
January last year.
Two college principals go up to the two
principal posts of Methodism in Aus-
tralia, Rev. Robert Lew, of the Methodist
Ladies’ College, Burwood (N.S.W.), be-
comes president-general of the Methodist
Conference; Dr. Alfred Wood, of Mel-
bourne M.L.C. (with 2300 pupils, 130
teachers, claimed to be the biggest school
in Australia), becomes secretary-general.
Already with experience of top executive
posts backing him, the new president
served as an Army chaplain in both
World Wars. His offsider first took to
law, after five years with the Crown Law
Office in Sydney took to preaching, and
took his Doctorate of Divinity in Mel-
bourne- in 1948, after some years mis-
sioning in Tonga, where he taught the
sons of Queen Salote. The president has
been with his M.L.C. for the past seven
years; the secretary with his for the
past 15.
• •
Randal White took his B.A. in Dublin
(where he was born); at 19 was a lieuten-
ant with the Leinster Regiment in War I,
France, Belgium and Germany ; at 30
was sales-manager in South Australia for
General Motors. He shifted to radio in
Adelaide, managed a broadcasting con-
cern for a time, and had three terms as
vice-president of the Australian Federa-
tion of Commercial Broadcasting Stations.
Just retired, he’d been for the past eight
years g.-m. of Melbourne’s 3AW station.
• •
Changes of berths in the Melbourne
Steamship Co. put Christopher Porter,
Westralian manager, into dock for retire-
ment; Kenneth York Syme from assist-
ant-manager at head-office into Porter’s
chair. With the company for the past 46
years, the last eight in Westralia, Porter
has served as president or committeeman
on concerns ranging from stevedoring to
chambers of commerce and State coal
committees. His successor is the son of
David York Syme, chairman and manag-
ing-director of the company in Melbourne,
and directorially connected with, at a
rough count, somewhere about a dozen
other concerns.
• e
A Doctorate of Philosophy, awarded
by the University of Missouri for field-
biology, goes to R. W. Balham, biologist
in the New Zealand Department of In-
ternal Affairs. He’ll return to his old
department after finishing at Missouri in
August. It’s Balham’s second study-
course over that way ; he was awarded a
Fellowship by the same university in
1950.
• •
Here (interviewed by artist Lusby in
pidgin at Port Moresby) is Yuwiga,
D.C.M., M.M., Loyal Service Medal, of
Wewak, New Guinea’s most decorated
MEDALS
native. Yuwiga’s one eye is a startling
and (for his race) possibly unique blue.
Looking somewhat like an amiable but
wily Captain Kidd, Yuwiga was a pre-
war police-boy in Madang, Rabaul and
Buka; War II found him coast-watching,
when he wasn’t accounting for Japs —-his
best tally was eight in one night. He lost
an arm as well as an eye before it was
over.
Every overseas conductor who has
visited Australia has had a hobby—with
Englishmen, except Beecham, it has
generally been cricket; Sir Tammas s
hobby was snubbing the musical snobs.
Spanish conductor Enrique Jorda, who
has opened the musical ball in Melbourne,
has three—philately, philosophy and
pelota. Pelota is the hard-hitting Spanish
wall-game you’re lucky to come out of
MUSIC
without a broken nose or other damage.
A young 47, with a controlled wildness
when he holds the baton, Enrique was
permanent conductor of the Madrid
orchestra till 1945, and has been a guest-
conductor to the 8.8. C., the Halle and
London Philharmonic, Scottish, Swiss and
Belgian national orchestras and the Paris
Conservatoire. He has just been appointed
permanent conductor of the San Francisco
Orchestra in succession to the veteran
Frenchman Pierre Monteaux.
• . *
John Michael Galvin, who steps into
the Solomonic job of Chief Conciliation
Commissioner in Melbourne with the
retirement of 70-year-old G. A. Mooney,
started off as a loco-cleaner with South
Australian Railways; then, as fireman,
stoked his way up to driver, secretary of
the Federated Union of Locomen and, in
1927, Federal president. Twenty years
later he was. appointed a conciliation com-
missioner, and has since adjudicated in
disputes of metal trades, building trades
and aircraft groups. Born in Paddington,
Sydney.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, two days before his 69th birthday
and just before a projected .trip to America,
Frederick Richard Burley, founder, with his
brother, Arthur, of the Berlei corset co., and
governing-director at the end. Rotary was his
main outside interest; he had been president
of the Sydney branch, a district-governor for
Australia and member of the board of Rotary
International, Son Keith is joint managing-
director of the firm in England.
At 85, George Saxby, one of the first pupils
of Sydney High School and between 1925-33 its
headmaster. Son of a schoolie, classics and
maths his speciality, he had headmastered in
turn at Orange, East Maitland and Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
At Brighton (Vic.), at 64, W. A. Edwards,
one of the best-known explosives experts in Aus-
tralian mining. A Cornishman, known up-
shaft and down as “Cap’n,” he was for some
years with the Du Pont company in America,
and before coming to Australia in 1933 was
with several explosives-manufacturing concerns in
Chile, Bolivia, Peru and the Argentine. Here
in Australia he established a technical service
to advise on the use of explosives in mining.
In Royal Melbourne Hospital, which he had
managed for the past 23 years, Rupert Fanning,
expert in hospital administration. In 1944,
after a study-tour overseas, he supervised the
shift to the new Royal Melbourne building.
Secretary of the Walter and Eliza Hall research-
institute connected with the hospital, he com-
manded several brigades in War I France and
Belgium, was gassed, and came out colonel,
D.S.O. Before taking on hospital work he
instructed in artillery at Duntroon and had
some time at Quetta. War II found him back
in uniform, early in the piece with a brigade,
towards the end in a high staff job with the
American forces at South-West Pacific head-
quarters. He played with the Royal Melbourne
G.C.
At 76, Boer War veteran George Carney,
of Scott’s Head (N.S.W.). His father was with
the British in the Crimean War and the
Indian Mutiny.


INTRINSIC VALUE
, //
it is iwy m
N 'AttO, 1 T£uu you, AT THRjEg OUIM&AS
TH£ FRAM£ iTGBLf (S WORTH TH£ MON£y.


ABORIGINALITIES
"He used to make the best damper on the Darling."
'T'HE yellow fellow lobbed in late in the
day, bearing signs of battle ; split ear,
bung eye, swollen neck, scrabbled fur. As
he’s king of the cats hereabouts w© decided
he’d been cornered by the dog over the
fence. We were just sitting down to soup
—toheroa; not restaurant toheroa, but
the real thing, rich and solid —when he
bawled at the door, so what could we
do but offer him a bowl?
He accepted with a certain stiff, mar-
tyred dignity, dipped his whiskers in,
licked them, looked surprised. Then
butted his broad head in, polished it oft.
He liked it, he said, big eyes staring for
more.
I sympathised. But there wasn’t any
more. He pushed the empty bowl round
impatiently. No good. Then, after
rubbing himself against legs and much
shameless pleading, he turned and hared
down the garden, belligerence in every
bound. Over the fence; then sounds of
combat from the other side.
For a moment I toyed with the idea that
he worked it out on these lines: another
thrashing, more sympathy, more toheroa-
soup. But on second thoughts I put it
down to the soup; toheroa does some-
thing for you. Haven’t seen the dog
since, but Ginger came home with his
tail up. —“Emjai.”
* * * *
“T.P.H.”: A Balranald (N.S.W.) station
loaded transports just after dark with
small, unshorn weaners. Rabbits are very
bad and often run with the sheep. When
unloading at dawn next morning, at Swan
Hill (Vic.) yards, a number of rabbits
quickly left their weaner mates for parts
unknown. Can any of the Council quote
a similar trip?
♦ ♦ » «
“Dustman”: According to a Perth
daily, a Sydney scientist thinks that the
excretary products of a baby kangaroo
“which for weeks and even months are
never thrown out of the pouch, are
absorbed by the mother through the
pouch-lining.” An interesting theory, but
it’s based on the assumption that there
are excretary products, and that’s debat-
able. I’ve shot dozens of ’roos with young
joeys in the pouch, and, although some-
times the joey hasn’t been removed until
hours after its mother’s death, there was
never any excrement in the pouch. I
know how easily a kangaroo can remove
an object from the pouch—place a six-
pence in there and she’ll get it out in two
shakes —but I’ve always assumed that
joey’s don’t defecate until they start to eat
grass, by which time they’re trained not
to foul the nest. That’s only a theory, as
far as joeys are concerned. With kittens
I’m on rather firmer ground. While
baby kittens are being fed solely by their
mother there is no observable excrement.
The milk, apparently, is a complete food
without any waste-products. Couldn’t the
same apply to joeys, where there’s greater
reason for it?
• ♦ * •
“Wire-buster”: Ten years ago Ki-viti
boys in Suva had a style of their own at
marbles. Fingers of left hand fanned-out,
downwards-pointing thumb on ground:
“tor” held to. tip of first finger by the tip
of first finger of right-hand, forcing 1.-h.
finger back, hard, towards the body.
Then, whack, catapult released, missile
hurled. Did it scatter those marbles in
big ring? “Tom bolo hum\”
* * ♦ *
“Bora”: As a further instance to those
cited by “Reims” (B. 28/4/’54) of being
lost and unfindable and dying in the W.A.
bush, here’s one from my own experience.
When stationed near Geraldton "during
War II our unit lost a man who jumped
from a moving truck and ran into the
scrub. A whole infantry company, black-
trackers, and local police, knowing the
exact spot where he left the road, searched
for two days without finding him. Some
months later he was found—dead, of
course—not a mile from where he left
"We'll have to get Dad a lighter machine—that one takes too much
out of him.”
the road. And mark this: in the inter-
vening period the greater part of an in-
fantry brigade, with attached troops, had
been operating in that area. It shows how
hard it is to find anyone in that difficult
country. And many cases of loss of life
have never been recorded.
* * ♦ *
“Uramao”; A rare fish anywhere, and
one that has swum into New Zealand
experience only three times in 84 years,
was found recently at Pukerua, near Wel-
lington. The unicorn-fish, a deep-sea-
farer, a delicate iridescent silver, with
pale-pink fins and a spectacular orange
horn on its peaked forehead: from a
large triangular head it tapers to a tail-
fin of almost invisible pale-pink. This
specimen (very much alive) was nabbed
by an early-morning stroller along the
waterfront. Horn was nine inches long,
head nine inches deep; after which it
diminished in size to a thickness of an
inch-and-a-half,
* * * «
“Hayband”; Bush knowledge can be
useful in not-obvious ways. If, for in-
stance, a pilot aloft has to make a forced
landing some knowledge of the habits of
stock can come in handy. He can get a
fair idea of wind-direction—if he has
time—by looking down. Cattle graze
into the wind; horses turn tail to it.
Sheep, equipped with a wind-proof jacket,
don’t worry, but they have a feeding-
habit, in undulating country, which is a
useful guide to the man in trouble on
top: round and round a hill, leaving
circular tracks which, looking down,
stand out clearly like contour-lines on a
map. So the pilot can avoid the encircled
area.
* * * *
“G.G.” Tell “Mark Thru Star” that
the Turks did use explosive bullets (B.
12/5/’54), although the explosive effect
was not intentional. It was this way:
Turk bullets were conical, rather sharp-
nosed, with an outer shell or casing of
hard metal filled with a core of lead, or
some soft metal. Unequal expansion of
metals in mid-flight (heated by passage
through air at high speed) burst casing;
hence explosions. Not a pleasant sen-
sation when the noise occurred close to
one’s head. Made a bloke duck.
* * * *
“Boro-belle”: A “glass-eye” tale for
the collection. Place, Mackay (N.Q.);
period, October, 1889. The district had
33 small sugar-mills then, mostly manned
by kanakas. At Mt. Pleasant plantation
Harvey Walker owned a mill and grew
cane on a couple of hundred acres. It was
his custom to leave his glass-eye on an
upturned treacle-tin to supervise the cane-
chipping when he went to the mill. One
afternoon one of his youngsters was bitten
by a snake. He packed the child, his wife.
and the other children into the backboard,
drove six miles into town to the doctor
and —need I continue? Right. When he
returned the boys were still patiently
chipping in the dusk, under the spell of the
all-seeing eye. Be it said to his credit that
he rewarded each of the 18 Islanders with
a plug of tobacco.
« • ♦ •
“Archaen”: Blandowski isn’t the only
scientist who described a specimen in
most unflattering terms, then named it
after a colleague against whom he had a
grudge (B, 12/5/’54). The scientist who
described our Murray cod christened it
Maccullochella, the Latin for “Little
McCulloch,” which isn’t exactly flatter-
ing to the cove concerned.
* * * *
“Bass”: Lovers of horse-flesh? A
Perth jockey who had just won a race,
interviewed afterwards, struggled for
words to describe his mount. Finally he
got them. “She’s a piece of machinery,”
he said. The sporting scribes accepted
that as the ultimate in praise.
♦ * * #
“Fly”: A New England (N.S.W.) mys-
tery seems in a fair way to being solved.
The Beardy and other local rivers should
be excellent trout-streams. But they’re
not; and for this anomaly any one of a
dozen interesting explanations—ranging
from soluble minerals in the soil to
the more insidious effects of the H-bomb
—can be offered, if you really get stuck
into the subject. The other day, though,
a party from Glen Innes went shooting
above the weir and bagged 12 cormorants.
Inside each cormorant was a number of
small trout —about nine per bird. They
also discovered a cormorant-rookery
which housed about 150 cormorants. And
that should explain any shortage of trout.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Sandgroper” re-
grets the loss in prestige of the term
“battler” (B. 5/5/’54). Consider “flash.”
Nowadays if a man’s flash he’s probably
insincere, a confidence-trickster or a brag-
gart: I s can recall when the term meant
ultra-stylish, and wasn’t necessarily derog-
atory. Then flashness wasn’t confined to
city-dwellers, but was more often an
attribute of men who had struck it rich
on the fields, or had knocked-up a big
cheque somehow, and were having a
spell in the city. Shrewd men, mostly,
who made their mark in business, and
dressed the part. And how they dressed!
Fancy weskits, often made from horse-
rugs, with huge gold watch-chains loop-
ing and jingling. Peg-leg trousers, bright
hats, highly-polished shoes with real
mirrors in the toes. If those men
appeared now in that garb you wouldn’t
laugh at them —not twice, anyway. They
were tough. One of toughest of them
once told me: “I was flash in
them days. Mighty flash.” He was proud
of it. But now the word’s cheapened.
An example is the alteration of “Flash”
to “Speed” in an American comic-strip
for consumption in Australia.
“Cleaner”: Saw “Gravelsnatcher’s”
par. on the proof and can’t resist adding
to it that “Banjo” Paterson, anyway, used
the word with a shade of its modem
meaning in “The Man From Ironbark”:
The barberman was small and flash.
As barbers mostly are;
He wore a strike-your-fancy sash
And smoked a huge cigar.,...
THE TURKEY OVERLAND
Far in the foothills, years ago,
Around the edges of the snow
There was a cattle-station known
As Cooradigbee, wild and lone.
McNally, who lived on that run,
Bred cows for beef, but got his fun
From rearing turkeys, although none
Survived till big enough to kill,
For foxes swarmed on every hill.
He fought them early, he fought them late,
But never saw turkey on his plate,
And he a man, ’twas said, could ride
The wildest horse on the mountainside.
He’d jump a team of bullocks strung
Across the street when Yass was young;
He’d hold a scrub-bull out to feed,
But could not toss the robber breed.
He took to wandering through the scrub
And came upon a wayside pub
Where all they did by day and night
Was drink, and watch a gobbler fight.
A giant bird, a fearsome thing,
Whose beak and claw and flashing wing
Were death to bird and beast alike.
They’d sooled on every sort of tyke—
Gun-dog and heeler, hunting hound —
Not one would face him for miles around;
And the boss of Cooradigbee Run *
Bought him before the day was done.
McNally also bought a hen
To join him in a netted pen
And that same night the first fox tried
To snatch the gobbler’s brand-new bride.
You never knew such a hullabaloo;
The fox was dead when the bird was through.
And many another night the hill
Rang with the sound of the gobbler’s kill.
They reared their chicks on a stack of straw,
Twenty a clutch, and they bred more.
Never were hardier turkeys seen:
Sound as snakes, and twice as mean.
’Twas plain as a white cow in a bog
What went for fox would go for dog;
And the fierce blue heelers finally
Curled down their tails and had to flee.
The squatter, who cheered the foxes’ flight,
Whistled his dogs in vain that night.
“These monstrous chocks must go! ” he said,
“A man’s not safe in his own bed!”
He plaited a whip of new greenhide
And saddled his favorite horse to ride.
“I’ll drive them to Yass and truck them
down.
“They’ll go like sheep to Sydney Town,”
He rode around the mountain station
To start them for their destination.
The ranges rang with startled squawks
As turkeys flew like eaglehawks.
From stringybark, from granite rock,
McNally mustered his feathered flock.
The noise they made would silence thunder
When roosting as the sun went under.
At daybreak they were well afoot,
A nightmare mob as black as soot.
McNally spread them out to feed
And had a drover hold the lead.
They coursed a kelpie down the track,
They perched up on a settler’s shack,
They strutted past with tails outspread
While people clutched their pets and fled.
And when at last they came to Yass
The townsfolk gawked at the gobbling mass;
And still they talk of the wondrous day
The overland turkeys were trucked away,
While out on the Cooradigbee side
Where the creeks run cold from the Great
Divide
The bark of a fox is seldom heard —
They still remember McNally’s bird.
N.S.W.
ROB WEBSTER.


AT Bloods Creek, on the road to
Alice Springs, I drew level with a
man on foot who shouted at me: “You
chaps in cars are all the same —always
rushing somewhere. No time to stop for
a yarn.” I slowed down. Hardly chang-
ing voice, he added, “I’m sixty-five, been
forty years in the Territory, and I’ll race
any man backwards!” Immediately (by
this time I had stopped) he began run-
ning backwards some 25yds., talking
vivaciously; reversed, and came run-
ning back to the car. I stayed, and
shared my lunch with him. A year later
I sighted him, out of the corner of my
eye, as I was pulling into Coober Pedy
(S.A.); jammed on the brake, thrust my
head out, and yelled :“I’m sixty-five—
forty years in the Territory—l’ll race you
backwards!” He turned : “You must
have met me last year,” he said mildly.
“I’m sixty-six.”—“J.A.B.”
* * * «
“Hayband”: Nature is untidy. Saw a
record good season and a record drought
at work, for seven months, within 12
miles of each other. About Bangalow
(N.S.W.) and towards the coast, with
plenty of feed and high prices, farmers
had lost the art of growling. Above
Casino, in the same Richmond River
country, some places registered 4in. of
rain, instead of the customary 40. Breed-
ing-cattle were almost wiped out, and so
much timber was cut for feed that it was
difficult to ride through it. Another in-
stance, the gift of two thunderstorms. On
Momba station (western N.S.W.) I once
saw a belt of green grass a half-mile wide
where all else was dust; and sheep were
moved from starvation to plenty. When
man gains control (by artificial rain-
making, etc.) I hope he will distribute
weather more evenly.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: I’m not refuting “Mark
O’Polo’s” statement (B. 5/5/’54) that
Baudin was off the Westralian coast look-
ing for La Perouse a century after Vlam-
ing, but I am correcting his erroneous
assertion that Baudin entered the Swan
River while searching for the missing
“Make you mad , Wouldn't it? No signposts!"
Frenchman in the year 1791. Baudin
couldn’t have done either of the two
things claimed for him, for the simple rea-
son that he didn’t leave Europe till 1800.
When he reached the western coast
in the following year he completely by-
passed the Swan, though a party from
the Naturaliste had a look round it. Nor
am I confusing D’Entrecasteaux with
Vancouver, even though both men were
sailing in the same area in the same
year —the Australian coastline is a long
one, and there was plenty of room for
them both. But it was D’Entrecasteaux
who was sent out in 1791 with specific
orders to look for his missing compatriot.
It is quite correct that D’Entrecasteaux
was never anywhere near the Swan River
—to the best of my knowledge nobody
has claimed that he was.
♦ * *
“Tom”: “Bogaduck’s” reference (B.
12/5/’54) to the British society formed
after World War I to buy back horses
sold to the Arabs by the Army recalled
.that the British were not always so not-
able for love of horses if the opinion of
a Duke of Wurtemburg is any guide.
Early in the 17th century the duke wrote,
after a tour of England, that the island
was “a paradise for women, a prison for
servants, and a hell for horses.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Not only profes-
sional tramps or sundowners carried
“blueys” (B, 28/4/’54). In the depression
thousands of others humped them around
Australia’s outback. Mostly theirs were
neither blue nor blankets —they were
everything the owner possessed rolled up
in a “wagga.” This was a number of
wheat-sacks sewn together with binder-
twine. One well-made “wagga” was
worth two or three blankets, and a worn-
out one could always be replaced at the
next farm. Bags were plentiful and cheap
then. Now, if you can find them, they
cost a small fortune.
« « ♦ ♦
“G.S.”: Know why “Kate’s” shearer
friend got back his lost roll (B. 12/5/’54)?
Because the tobacco-tin in which he car-
ried it was shiny. Not long back, most
bush blokes carried their wealth in these
handy containers, and constant friction
in a hip-pocket rubbed all the paint off.
A man walking along the track would
pass dozens of tobacco-tins, and mostly
he wouldn’t take any notice of them.
But a shiny one was always worth in-
specting.
v * * *
“Esau”: Saw a strange thing by
chance. I was looking about the Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.) landscape for the
enormous rhinoceros-beetle—large as a
small mouse —when I glanced down at the
placid waters of a creek. Dozens of queer
beetles were swimming round in a circle,
darting backwards and forward, making
partial ellipses, forming, disintegrating,
and re-forming, bewildering the eye. They
were the “horseshoe-makers,” members of
the water-beetle family, engaged in their
mating dance. They mate in summer and
autumn.
* * * •
“Wippegong”: You beaut, “Kerba”
(B. 5/5/’54)! At the end of April my
R.I.R. pullets began to lay, thereby earn-
ing me two schooners from the bloke who
reckoned I set the hen too early. I was
crowing louder than their sire, until one
day there were those bits of broken shell
in the bottom of the nest and that slimy
mess in the straw. On appearances you’d
suspect old Gamey ; but I know that when
she fancies a change of diet she just hops
the fence and demolishes a good cabbage
—with luck, it might be a neighbor’s. At
strategic points in the yard I put piles of
gibbers, because Regan’s genuine O’Haggis
terrier (Scotch-Irish cross), who can climb
a tree or out-burrow a wombat, was under
suspicion ; then that dauntless hound had
a difference with a semi-trailer and was
laid-up for a week—yet eggs were still
broken. Gloom had just about settled
when the Bully arrived, and there you
had the answer. I shall now build a
dummy hide-out in front of the nest and,
“It always tastes nicer when someone else cooks it."
with a pocketful of pebbles and new
rubbers in my shanghai, lie in wait for
the true villain —Spadgus domesticus vul-
garis bastardii.
* * * *
\
“Mackville”: Just twelve years since a
possum adopted us, as “Yarmi’s” ringtail
did him (B. 5/5/’54), but our nocturnal
visitor is a silver-grey. For a long time
now he’s been tame enough to eat direct
from our hands —patronisingly—if the
titbit suits his taste. Banana and rose-
petals are favorites, with grapes and bread
running close. But one fruit always gets
a disgusted sniff from his connoisseurship
—apple. Perhaps it’s being favored by
“Yarmi’s” ringtail is another reminder
of the vast gap between ringtails and
silvers, or maybe possums have their in-
dividual tastes the same as hunians, but I
have never been able to reason out what
could be so distasteful in a ripe, juicy
apple, or so enjoyable about a piece of
raw potato-peel.
• * * ♦
“Sack”: Memories of my marbling
days coincide exactly with “Emjai’s’’ (B.
19/5/’54), except in the “funny-knuckle”
business; we always called the inexpert
method “cunny-knuckle.” Nobody knew
why, but now I suspect it was a corrup-
tion from “Emjai’s” “funny.” To us,
marbles of all ranks came under the
general heading of “muckers,” and when
a bankrupt player could no longer rake-up
his “dakes” he was “mucked.” Such
technical terms, however, seem to have
been confined to the Ma State ; a new kid,
from some outlandish place called South
Australia, couldn’t understand a word of
’em. Moreover, he spoke some strange
language of his own. Evidently in his
barbarous country they called muckers
“alleys,” and asked what the dakes were
by saying “How many down?” All right-
thinking kids, of course, knew that it
should be “How many up?”
* * * •
“Kelms”: A Perth paper ran a picture
of a fox and an eagle, poisoned by a
baited carcass of a lamb, and advanced it
as evidence that both were criminals.
Nothing of the sort. It simply proved that
both of them will take a carcass ; and
while there’s no argument for the fox, it
would take a better case than that to
convict the big Australian. He may kill
an occasional lamb —it’d be strange if he
didn’t. But the fact that less than 10
per cent, of farmers can honestly say
they’ve seen him in the act proves he
doesn’t make a habit of it. And since he
lives, and fives well, he must do a terrific
amount of good. Few items on his menu
are farmers’ friends.
« * * *
“Quo Vadis”: In my youth I was an
expert at “tickling” the golden perch in
outback waterholes in Queensland. When
water is drying-up the g.p. (“yellow-
belly”) seeks sanctuary in the deepest
pools and around logs and roots, and the
bare-handed commando enters the water
and locates them with an acutely-
developed sense of touch. He can “feel”
the outline of a fish in the water. He can
then: (1) grab him around the belly, (2)
through the gills, (3) throw him up and
out on the bank. It is an art on its own,
and the novice will pay for his inexperi-
ence and disbelief with busted ego and
badly-lacerated hands. Only on the
emphatic advice of a kindly old man with
a white beard and a scythe did I give up
freshwater “tickling.”
* * * *
Cross-examined
/''vNE thing I personally like about
country newspapers, apart from
those quoted ads. (B. 26/5/’54), is the
detail—‘if you don’t physically attend a
shire meeting, say, or a Maher Cup game,
you get a pretty fair idea of what went
on —warts and all. Which seems to me
to be the essence of good reporting.
An example appeared in the “Gunda-
gai Independent” (N.S.W.) the other day ;
a report of a drunken-driving case, with
no very spectacular features. The police
having given their evidence, the accused
—X will do, for circulation outside the
district —denied the charge. He said he
had been drenching sheep till 2.30; came
into town and had two small beers at
Hogan’s hotel; ate a meal at the Niagara
Cafe; called at the Royal to get some
K.F.M. for fly-blown sheep and had two
small beers; and left for home at 4,30
p.m.
Then the cross-examination:
Do you often have a drink of beer?—Yes.
You are a man accustomed to drinking
beer?—No.
Never on any occasion have you been
affected by drinking beer?—No.
When you drink beer do you always drink
soz. glasses?—Yes.
Why do you drink beer? —Same as any-
body else I suppose.
■ Not the same as anybody else. Why do
you?—Just for the sake of the company.,
Does it do anything to you? —If I drank
enough of it, it would.
You could drink milk-shakes for company?
—Yes.
But you prefer beer? —Not exactly.
Then why do you drink beer instead of
milk-shakes?—l drink both.
But you drink the beer for company? —I
drink both for company.
Did you know why you were being
arrested? —No.
When did you find out why you were
being arrested?—When the sergeant told me.
As far as you were concerned you were
completely sober? —Yes.
Did you make any protest? —No, he just
told me, and he’s the boss.
When you were taken to the station, did
not the sergeant ask you if you would like
to see a doctor? —No.
Did you ask to see a doctor? —No.
Why? —Just don’t know why. I just
didn’t.
Was it because you were satisfied that the
police allegations against you were correct? —
Yes.
At this, defending counsel leapt to his
feet. But the magistrate restrained him
and, turning to X, asked “Do you mean
that?” X said “Yes.”
Royal commissions and the like aside,
you never see anything like this in the city
Press. And never mind'about Mr. Shand
and Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Goran —
for my part I’d hate to have that police
prosecutor asking me those patient, per-
sistent questions about milk-shakes and
company and soz. glasses.
BACKSTATION CREEK.
BETWEEN TANK AND TROUGH
Wire and wind and shifting sand
Curve between the tank and trough;
This is an alien land.
Shadow-shallow footprints lie,
Lingering across the sand;
Somebody once went by.
Bird’s lost feather, earth’s dead grass,
Discarded and unremembered,
Wait for Time to pass.
Only a beetle braves the trip
Across the waste that is between
Tank’s shadow, trough’s drip.
Here is infinity, designed
Briefly and left—Artist unknown,
Pencils lost, work unsigned—
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


jpaiffi dm Mie
2FddfWC
The French are a remarkable people. They have
added much to the enlightenment of the world,
contributed well to its culture. One of the sadnesses
of these post-war years has been that the splendours
of France have been dimmed.
Ravaged in two world wars, she has lost her
place in Europe in a comparison between present and
pre-war production.
I mention this because France is launching a
comprehensive plan to modernise and re-equip her
industry and agriculture —and that has a powerful
moral for Australia.
To the French it isn’t too big a task to invest £9OO
million in the rehabilitation of their country. They
aim to raise its producton, and by doing so to ensure
a higher standard of life than many of their people
have known in recent years.
They see the markets of the world becoming more
and more competitive. They know that the only
chance for any exporting nation is the efficiency of its
industries, its machines, its agriculture. In a word,
they have faith in themselves and in France, and are
ready at whatever cost to back that belief.
France industrially was old before Australia was
young. She was a highway of merchandise when this
country was a wilderness. Her land had been tilled
for centuries while our soil was still virgin.
Her problem is restoration ; ours is construction.
But fundamentally the same impelling need exists in
both countries —to conserve, to replenish, to improve.
And only her people, the Individuals, can do that of
their own work-power and will-power.
This week I heard the story of a young French-
man who came to Australia with small capital to start
growing grapes for wine, as generations of his family
before him had done in France.
As it happened, he acquired a block of land that
was quite unsuitable for his purpose. When told of
his mistake, he smiled and stooped down, picked up a
handful of earth, and let it fall through his fingers.
“I do not care,” he said. “Whatever it will grow,
that I shall plant. For this soil is mine.”
‘/V. MzS&t^S
1 V I
1. A Li
This World Famous Brand f»
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers ofs-~*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business Rollery Etc.
Work and Wealth
The distraction of Dr. Evatt’s
vote-catching campaign over —
he proposed abolishing the
means-test and widening the
pensions field, plus other social-
security extensions public
attention may come back to
something it was just beginning
to appreciate. That is the fact
that all our wealth comes from
our work as a people, and that
no wealth comes from increasing
the money-supply by artificial
means.
Proper management of the
money-supply may stimulate
production, but inflation has the
reverse effect, as was seen only
too clearly during the Socialists’
post-war term of office. Traders
during that period were, in
effect, “selling themselves poor”
—what they received from the
sale of one lot of stock would
not finance the cost of a similar
amount of the same merchan-
disc. During inflation it becomes
progressively more profitable to
speculate than to produce goods.
The greatest individual profit-
earners of the 1945-49 period
were the blackmarketeers. Pro-
ductive industry, on the other
hand, was driven crazy by spiral-
ling costs, clumsy and unfair
price-control and all sorts of
other regulations.
Inflation would be a great
danger to the Australian outlook
right now. For a year or more
costs have been stabilising appre-
ciably ; and with that stability
there has been, as emphasised in
these pages for the past 12
months, a steady increase in
production of most essential
materials. This has meant that
goods have been easier to manu-
facture, there has been less
waste of time and manpower,
costs have stopped rising (in the
textile trade there has been a
drop in selling-prices), and there
has been an opportunity to go
ahead with new factories and
other capital works —works
which make it easier and
cheaper still to produce more
and more goods.
The 40-hour week has in-
troduced a severe problem.
Costs, in the ultimate, are gov-
erned by the output per worker
during each working-week. Fol-
lowing introduction of the 40-
hour week in 1948 weekly out-
put fell; this and the abundance
of money flowing in from an
unprecedented wool - cheque
were the main influences in send-
ing inflation skywards during the
period 1949-51. We are still
feeling the effects of the 40-
hour week, more particularly
since revenue from wool has
dropped and has made it harder
for prices to meet increased
costs ; but there has undoubtedly
been a stabilising in costs since
credit-restriction and Budgetary
anti-inflationary measures were
brought in in 1951, There has
been a noticeable recovery in
weekly worker-output, with a
faster turn-round of shipping.
While the improvement is
highly encouraging, Australia is
by no means sufficiently pro-
ductive yet to be able to carry
out all the national works which
are becoming a pressing prob-
lem. Works are built with
materials and manpower, not
merely with “finance.”
The Commonwealth is thus in
no position to divert a vast
amount of its production into
free gifts to non-workers among
the population. It is not really
able to divert enough now into
factories, plant and works of a
reproductive nature.
Even though cement and steel
are gradually catching up with
demand, and output of these
and other basic materials are
being turned into all sorts of
productive and transport facili-
ties, it will be some years before
the reproductive value of such
capital assets becomes fully
noticeable. One only has to study
the long-term nature of the
Snowy River enterprise, the
B.H.P. tinplate venture or the
Bell Bay (Tas.) aluminium pro-
ject in order to appreciate the
fact that national development
is slow in its initial stages, and
that its results —in the end—are
liable to arrive perhaps all at
once.
Until cheaper and more plen-
tiful production does start to
come forth Australia needs to
keep a wary eye on costs and on
Government expenditure. Both
can be inflationary and dis-
couraging to production, the
source of all our material wealth
and well-being. Provided costs
can be kept down, overall pro-
ductivity increased and industry
given as much tax-relief as pos-
sible, there should be a big in-
dustrial future for Australia.
Population is increasing at a fast
pace, and there is much work to
be done. But emphasis should
be placed on the word work—
not merely in the case of the
trade-unionist but in respect of
all.
Kandos Cement
Inquiry for Kandos Cement
16s. shares sent the scrip up by
2s. a share (to 355. 9d.) in the
space of ten days. As was
pointed out in these pages with
special reference to Kandos, the
cement industry has had a very
busy year, and, in Victoria
(where Kandos has a large in-
terest) an expanding one. Its
equal partner in all its cement
under takings is Australian
Cement, the £1 shares in which
are at 38s.
Angus and Robertson
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Sydney bookseller and publisher,
is issuing 27,237 new £1 ords.
at a premium of 17s. 6d. a share.
The issue is roughly in the ratio
of one for four. An issue of
20,000 8 p.c. 2nd prefs. will also
be made at a ss. premium, one
for two second-prefs. already
held. (Paid capital at present
“Y’ silly prawn—tenners aren't blue! "
is £152,763, in 102,763 ords.,
10,000 8 p.c. Ist cum. par. prefs.
and 40,000 8 p.c. 2nd prefs.)
It is unusual to issue prefs.
at a premium; but, then, it is
unusual these time to offer 8
p.c. interest. (At 255. the yield
will be 6.4 p.c.) Rather than
create a third class of preference
share the board has apparently
followed the premium idea.
After the new ords. and prefs.
are taken up the nominal capital
of £200,000 will be fully sub-
scribed.
Last year’s net earnings were
27.4 p.c. on ord. capital, after
allowing for the prefs. The div.
has been steady at 15 p.c. since
1946. The company has made
an outstanding success of book-
publishing in Australia, though
recently production costs have
been a problem.
United Petroleum
Managing - director O. L.
Josephson, of United Petroleum,
Ltd., says the co. has a new ter-
minal-site at Botany (Sydney).
(The co. withdrew its original
prospectus earlier this year be-
cause of permit problems attach-
ing to the old Balmain-colliery
property.) The co.’s American
associate, Anglo - United
Petroleum, Inc., is stated to have
agreed to subscribe for 890,000
ss. shares, and the Australian
public will be offered 1,200,000
shares. The U.S. co. will also
lend £300,000 to finance stock.
The co. expects to enter the
highly competitive N.S.W.
petrol-retailing market within 12
months.
Masonite
Masonite ords. have jumped
to around 50s. They were a
Bulletin pick at 445.-455., and
earlier at 38s. The co. has
been very busy, and its ac-
counts to June 30 should show
the results of bigger plant-
capacity, uninterrupted opera-
tions, more price-freedom and
sustained demand.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in lleign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
• Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box: 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p, J. P. Pullen. Pnblle Trustee.
SPECIAL
TOLLEY’S G 9 BRANDY
HOSPITAL
!«»
i
m
Hoks
sSdAU
scoi;
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
T5T.33.12
YOU’LL FEEL
TIP-TOP Oi\
TOLLEY’S
Amalgamated Retailers Limited
Issue of £1 9 500 9 000
Registered
Mortgage
Debentures
D
Interest Rate: 6 Per Cent. Currency: 15 Years Price of Issue: Par ( * 100)
ISSUE CLOSES Bth JUNE, 1954
OBJECTS OF ISSUE
The net proceeds of this issue will be devoted
to financing a programme of continued ex-
pansion of the business and activities of the
company and its important subsidiaries in the
fields of retail trade and associated finance.
ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
Messrs. Flack & Flack report profits of the
company and its subsidiaries before providing
for interest on existing or proposed debentures
or for income tax payable on the profits of
the group, at £533,102 for 13 months ended
31st July, 1953.
The report of Messrs. Flack & Flack shows
total assets of £7,400,292.
cover for capital and interest
The Trust Deed securing the issue of de-
bentures requires that in the event of further
issues the total amount of debentures issued
must not exceed the ratio of £lOO of debentures
to £250 of total assets, including share capital
issued since the last balance date. Adding
capital issued since 31st July, 1953 (including
the amount still uncalled), total assets are
£8,884,558, which is equivalent to £341/15/11
of total assets for £lOO of debenture capital.
The Trust Deed calls for a minimum three
times cover of debenture interest before
further debentures may be issued. The annual
rate of nroflt for 12 months in 1953 was suf-
ficient to cover debenture interest 3.27 times.
VALUATIONS OF PROPERTIES
A report by L. J. Hooker & Co. Ltd. places
a total value of all properties of the company
at £2,155,676, which is £834,881 in excess of
book value.
GROWTH OF BUSINESS
Total value of business of the company has
increased from around £3,500,000 in 1948 to
£11,250,000 (13 months) in 1953.
RECENT RESULTS
The report of the managing director, Mr.
J. R. Walton, states that for 37 weeks of the
current year to 15th April the combined
operating profit (after allowing for all expenses
including interest payments, but before Pro-
visions and Taxation) was £607,080. This
compares with £392,761 for the same period
of the previous year. It is confidently expected
that this operating profit will exceed £BOO,OOO
for the year.
Mr. Walton anticipates that the volume of
business for this financial year will exceed
£16,000,000.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
Norman Bede Rydge, 01010 Avenue, Vaucluse (Chairman),
John Robert Walton, Cherry Street, Warrawee (Managing Director).
John Thomas Walton, 29 Road, Bellevue Hill (Director).
David Cyril Alexander, 54A Telegraph Road, Pymble (Director and Secretary).
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Burns Philp Trust Company Limited, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
Bank of New South Wales.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE IN SYDNEY
Ralph W. King and Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Applications
Applications for debentures of this issue will be
received only on one of the forms of application
accompanying a copy of the prospectus.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of appli-
cation may be obtained from any Branch of: —
The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Bank of New South Wales
Members of the Stock Exchange of Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Launceston.
Applications must be lodged with the bankers for
the issue and may be lodged through a member of
a recognised Stock Exchange.
Subscriptions
Payment for debentures may be made either in full
on application or 10 per cent, on application and the
remainder by Instalments.
Application moneys and Instalments will be accepted
free of exchange in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
Allotments
The minimum subscription upon which the directors
may proceed to allotment is £1,500,000.
The board of directors of the company will proceed
to allotment daily as from 10th May, 1954.
Stock Exchange Listing
Application will be made by the company for the
listing of the debentures on the Stock Exchanges of
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart.
Registers of Debentures
The principal register of debentures will be kept
In Sydney. A branch register will be established and
maintained in Melbourne.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
(The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act of the State of New South Wales have not been fully complied
with in the above advertisement, which is an abridgment of the prospectus.)
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Share Prices
One of the most impressive
short cycles in New Zealand
share-movements appears to
have nearly worked itself out.
It began three years ago, when
the Australian setback put pres-
sure on N.Z. and shares gave
ground, at first slowly and later
quickly, until rock-bottom was
touched around the end of 1952.
Since then the initiative has
been with sellers most of the
time, and in 18 mouths shares
have recovered two-thirds of the
preceding 18-months loss.
This recovery has had most
of the characteristics of a
powerful rebound. There was
no general weakness in produc-
tion or profit-figures to warrant
writing-off 20 p.c., on the aver-
age, of the value of scrip,
although profits slumped
sharply here and there, particu-
larly in the textile field and in
the case of meat-exporting cos.
hard-hij; by the three-months
port and shipping strike just be-
fore the start of the cycle, with
consequences felt later. For the
most part the steady upward
post-war trend in profit con-
tinued and the div. records, ex-
cept in odd cases, were un-
blemished. This was a slump
on the surface, while the under-
current of N.Z. prosperity
flowed on strongly, well sus-
tained by high export income
from wool, meat and dairy
produce.
Unlike the smack in the early
’thirties, this was almost wholly
due to internal monetary causes,
with a reaction on exchange
funds which was local in origin.
During the run on bank-credit
in the early half of 1952 and
the struggle during the next six
months to avoid losing balance,
the sharemarket had a lean
time. As always happens when
demand weakens, values had to
come down, and down they
came at a rate comparable with
that of 1929-31, though not so
prolonged, until equilibrium
was restored.
For a short while things were
quiet, then the Plimb began.
Today, as in 1951-52, control
of bank-credit is beginning to
take a hand again, but in an
atmosphere of confidence, strik-
ingly different from the nervous-
ness that prevailed during the
import boom. While excess
merchandise stocks were being
liquidated and money was
finding its way back
to the sharemarket the Reserve
Bank was tightening its hold on
reserves, and the trading banks
are now more restricted in their
lending.
So far the effects of the
tighter hold on the banks have
been hardly felt, but some heavy
borrowing for national and
local-body works, and for pri-
vate projects, of which the
largest is the Murupara pulp-
and-paper scheme, will draw off
much of the liquid funds float-
ing around. In this phase,
Maorilanders can expect to see
a steadiness in values that has
not been experienced for many
years. Quite apart from in-
ternal monetary controls, there’s
the impact of external changes,
in the form of competitive
trade. The most sensitive spot
is the dairy-produce market.
Taking all the influences to-
gether —tighter credit, the heavy
capital-works programme, the
new export outlook and the
general impression that the re-
covery in shares has run its
course —it’s easy to forecast a
steadier time. Investors are be-
coming more “yield-conscious.”
A healthy sign, and one not to
be belittled, is the ample margin
between div. needs and profits
for the general run of N.Z. cos.
Side-by-side with this, popula-
tion is increasing at a rate of
2 p.c. yearly, with N.Z. going
through a stage of unparalleled
growth, and turnovers should
continue to help business along.
Pulp and Newsprint
A general round of back-
slapping by everyone interested
in the pulp - and - newsprint
scheme, from Prime Minister Sid
Holland downwards, has helped
to Boost the scheme in the eyes
of the public at the moment
when the Tasman Pulp and
Paper Co., Ltd., is preparing to
go on the market for funds.
But for the strong backing the
Government has given the pro-
ject the co. couldn’t have waited
until now.
This is the peak construction-
year, and the co. is spending
millions. Outside capital is tak-
ing care of outlay abroad, and
is fuller covered by a £10 million-
sterling loan and the co.’s share
of the 16 million dollars bor-
rowed from the U.S. Export-
Import Bank ; but the co. has
some equally big internal financ-
ing on its hands to push the job
through.
Even without a hint lately
from the chairman, knight James
Fletcher, it was obvious that the
co. would have to make a call
soon, and some good propa-
ganda work, backed by a useful
effort behind the scenes, has
gone into preparing the market.
At the end of May the chairman
said the first couple of million
for the venture was “practically
underwritten,” and the co.
would be making its first issue
of shares after the mid-year
national loan.
For mills and plant the co. is
committed to the tune of £l3i
million, on top of which it will
have to find a further £3 million
for operating capital, interest
and its housing settlement and
hostel, adding up to million
in all. Nothing like this has
ever been thought of in Maori-
land before. Apart from one
or two early slips in planning,
the experts and the contractors
seem to have had their heads
screwed on right and have had
plenty of drive. Mr. Holland
has given the co. credit for doing
“a remarkably fine job” so far.
If speed can help to take some
of the inflation out of N.Z.
costs and improve economic
prospects for the new industry,
the chances of profit are grow-
ing brighter as the months go
by. For a country the size of
New Zealand the organisation
behind the scheme is a vast one,
approached only by that created
by N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
to build the Kinleith mills. The
difference in size is accounted
for by State co-operation and
financial aid for the Tasman
Cos., which was denied to Forest
Products.
Mr. Holland, in a moment of
enthusiasm, said in May: “This
achievement, the greatest in
N.Z. history, is the result of co-
operation between the State and
private enterprise—a happy
combination which is, I am sure,
the best way of exploiting and
harvesting our forest wealth.”
Kawerau, the mushroom town
that has sprung up near the mill-
sites in the Bay of Plenty, will
be an industrial nerve-centre of
N.Z. when production gets going
in 1955.


05
O
BOARD OF DIRECTORSt
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G- D. Young; W. Sydney Jonea; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.15., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.B.E.
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heller*
W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter
N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 75 years’ specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR138.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
WITH the emphasis in public policy
upon home-building and immigration,
the outlook for the General Industries
group—parent holding co. and two operat-
ing subsidiaries, Metters, Ltd., Sydney, and
Metters K.F.B. Pty., Melbourne —remains
bright. Earnings of the subsidiaries depend
mainly upon the level of activity in the
building-trade and the cos. have a firm
grip upon the Commonwealth-wide mar-
ket for most of their products. The fac-
tories, which are modern and well-
equipped, are at Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth, and they turn out a
variety of stoves (the line on which the
business grew up), baths, gas-heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel-goods, radia-
tors and other household electrical
appliances.
Since war ended the story has been one
of rapid growth, held in check by short-
ages of materials, skilled labor and plant-
capacity, most of which have now largely
passed, or are passing into the back-
ground. The number of new houses com-
pleted in the Commonwealth grew from
38,669 in 1947 to 79,486 in 1952. The
figure eased to 75,849 for 1953, and there
were 68,192 homes still under construc-
tion when the year ended.
Shareholders received a run of 124
p.c. divs. for the six years to 1942, and
a steady 10 p.c. since. And the 10 p.c,
was sweetened with £472,525 of bonus-
scrip ; thus the £319,077 of ord. capital
jettisoned in 1934 was restored with
£153,448 to boot Moreover, expanding
demand called for large additions to
premises and plant, to help finance which
£773,021 of fresh cash-paid capital, which
brought with it £156,389 of share-pre-
miums, was put up by those on the register
since 1948.
The slackened tempo in the building-
trade during the first three-quarters of
1953 did little more than reduce
the time-lag between order and
delivery-dates. Output and sales
were the highest on record. Demand
gathered momentum toward the close of
accounts, and is now running ahead of
output again for some lines. So, to fin-
ance further additions of plant, etc., in
Victoria, South Australia and Westralia,
£500,000 of 6 p.c. five-year unsecured
registered notes were put out in October
last, and the new money looks like earn-
ing more than its keep.
The year’s bigger sales, steadier costs
and lower co.-tax rates are reflected in a
leap of £101,544 in declared net
earnings:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £/ £ & £>
1948 121,146 20,850 10 p.c.= 63,717 36,579 407,884
Share premiums, £156,389 .. ..564,273
From tax provision, £21,500 .. .. 585,773
1949 138,778 20,851 10 p.c.= 71,834 46,093 631,866
1950 168,912 20,851 10 „ „ 78,755 69,306 701,172
Reserves capitalised, £262,514 .. ..438,658
1951 208,350 20,851 10 p.c.=105,005 82,494 521,152
Reserves capitalised, £210,011 .. .. 311,141
Assets revalued, £228,753 .. ..539,894
To special reserve, £198,753 .. .. 341,141
1952 274,352 20,851 10p.c.=128,500 125.001 466,142
Depreciation written back, £42,380 .. 508,522
1953 239,080 20,851 10p.c.=150,921 67,308 575,830
Tax overprovided, £BO,OOO .. .. 655,880
Unexplained reduction, £18,913 .. 636,197
1954 340,624 20,851 10p.c.=188,271 131,502 768,419
The £340,624 of profit claimed was
written after making unspecified provision
for depreciation and taxation. It leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained
reduction of £18,913 in the insurance
account (now £28,480) and £BO,OOO tossed
into free reserves from excess tax-pro-
visions in former years. After paying the
pref. div., the balance of the year’s
profit was 18.1 p.c. on the £1,882,717 of
ord. capital as against 14.4, 19.7, 17.8,
18.8 and 16.4 p.c. back to 1949.
Balance-sheet figures reflect prepara-
tions for yet bigger trading:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1962. 1953. 1954.
Rref £297,874 £297,874 £297,874
Ord 1,384,706 1,882,717 1,882,717
Reserves .. .. 466,142 575,830 768,419
Registered notes .. 511,397
Creditors .. 821,762 248,708 299,298
Tax reserve .. 718,156 720,774 419,658
Staff fund .. 60,000 50,000 50,000
Final div. .. 75,922 92,111 104,561
£3,314,562 £3,868,014 £4,338,924
Freeholds .. 647,517 835,222 874,217
Plant ~ .. 651,209 835.273 1,001,661
Stocks .. .. 1,444,730 1,686,638 1,612,791
Book debts .. 542,554 475,699 706,411
Shares other cos... 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash .. .. 3,922 10,552 114,214
£3,314,562 £3,868,014 £4,333,924
The new note-money, together with sur-
plus earnings and provisions, an extra
£50,590 from sundry creditors and
£73,847 from reduction in stocks, went
mainly into book-debts (up £230,712),
plant (up £166,388), freeholds (up £38,995)
and cash (up as well as in reduc-
tion of tax-liabilities (down £301,116).
Despite the growth in fixed assets, the
contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,073,132) was only £12,794.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
entered into an agreement with Mytton’s,
Ltd. (Melbourne), to produce and market
stamped-steel baths throughout the Com-
monwealth. These baths, which are made
in one piece from heavy-gauge steel and
are finished in acid-resisting enamel, have
won a wide market in U.S.A.
The sharemarket, which lengthened its
bid for the f.-p. £1 ords. from 345. 3d. a
year ago to 40s. 3d. at end of April last,
raised its offer to 435. last week. The
immediate return at 435. is only 4.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.8 p.c. should
the distribution be lifted to 12 p.c. The
7 p.c. prefs. at 255. 6d. yield 5.5 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £9 18s.
prefs. and 28s. 2d. ords.
Western Stores & Edgleys, Ltd.
■pEATURES of this very prosperous
country-store organisation’s latest
accounts are a spring of 25 p.c. in net
earnings and continued expansion of the,
business, by additions to the chain and
otherwise. The div. was held at 15 p.c.,
but the market thinks better things are in
store. After publication of accounts the
£1 shares, which had fluctuated between
475. 6d. and 555. in 1953, jumped 10s. to
70s. and later settled around 675., ex div.,
at which price the yield is 4.5 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The investor who looks
for 5.2 p.c. on his money expects the div
to go to 174 p.c., and/or other benefits —
whispers of a possible “take-over bid”
have been heard in the by-ways of the
market.
The co. kicked off in 1928 as an amal-
gamation of two businesses in the central-
west of N. S. Wales —Western Stores and
Edgleys—which got together in order to
centralise and cheapen buying and reduce
overhead. The group now consists of
headquarters at Dubbo, eight branches in
other towns and two old-established retail
businesses at Tamworth, P. G. Smith and
Co. Pty. and Regans. The latter was
bought last term, part consideration being
£50,000 in scrip. Western Stores has held
a controlling-interest in P. G. Smith and
Co, since May ’5O, and in 1953 it acquired
the remaining ord. shares for 12,800 of
its own £1 shares and an undisclosed
additional payment.
A careful trading policy, financially
and otherwise, has been followed from
the start. Turnover expanded rapidly
during the post-war boom, thanks largely
to the fatness of producers’ cheques for
wool, wheat and meat. Profits responded,
and those on the register shared in the
gains. The ord. div. climbed from
10 p.c. in 1947 to 15 p.c. four years later,
and has remained steady since. More-
over the 15 p.c. was sweetened with
£143,200 of bonus-scrip, scattered, two
for five, in 1951, thus making the 15 p.c,
worth 21.1 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
before the gift, which came from an
assets-revaluation reserve created by
writing up the book-value of freeholds
and buildings by £143,200. After the
writing-up these assets stood in the books
at a figure substantially below their
market-value, the chairman said.
Sales in the year to Feb. 28 last were
higher and the improvement in group
profits, after allowing £17,378 (up £5756)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion, was £39,973:
Parent Co.
r Dividends
„ Pref. To Re- Re-
■B eb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1949.. 83,367 10,500 12Jp.c. = 43,750 29,117 225,419
Tax overprovided, £15,000 .. .. 240,419
1950.. 92,430 10,500 ISfp.c. = 48,125 33,805 274,224
Assets revalued, £143,200 .. .. 417,424
Reserves capitalised. £143,200 .. 274,224
1951.. 206 10,500 15 p.c. = 64,440 51,266 325,490
Parent and Subsidiary.t
1952.. 10,500 15 p.c. = 75,180 72,474 408,493
1953.. 10,500 15 „ „ 75,180 74,669 483,167
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 513,167
1954.. 200.322 10,500 15 p.c. = 84,600 105,222 618,389
* Subject to intangibles, now £36,169.
t After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
The parent’s own profit was £189,715
(up £33,896) after setting aside £14,279
(up £4952) for depreciation and £122,000
(down £11,500) for taxation. The
£200,322 of consolidated profit covered
the pref. div. and 33.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
as against 29.9 p.c. and 29.4 p.c. in the
two preceding terms. The surplus after
paying the 15 p.c. div,, plus £30,000 previ-
ously overprovided for tax, lifted net
visible reserves to £582,220, or £18,220
more than ordinary capital; that is after
deducting intangibles. And there are
said to be substantial but undisclosed
reserves against stocks and book-debts.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the pur-
chase of Regans, all-round expansion and
buoyant trading:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1952. 1953. 1954.
Pref £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 501,200 501,200 564,000
Reserves .. .. 408,498 483,167 618,389
Outside interests ~ 40,897 43,926 25,000
Staff “funds .. 2,325
Overdraft .. .. 126,996 5,397 192,966
Creditors .. .. 127,527 125,231 147,884
Tax provision .. 328,929 305,463 241,593
Final divs. .. 42,840 42,840 47,550
£1,751,887 £1,684,549 £2,012,382
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . . . 517,191 524,316 582,754
Plant, fittings, etc. 60,657 111,149 168,967
Shares .. .. 15,483 14,286 14,286
Stock .. .. 743,685 601,355 815,307
Debtors .. .. 302,210 316,199 372,843
Cash, Govt, bonds 73,081 77,664 32,056
Goodwill, etc, .. 39,580 89,580 36,169
£1,751,887 £1,684,549 £2,012,882
To finance net additions of £58,438 to
freeholds and £47,818 to plant, etc., and
increases of £213,952 in stocks and
£56,644 in book-debts, the co. issued
£62,800 fresh capital, used surplus profits,
reduced its holdings of cash and bonds by
£45,608, added £22,653 to creditors’
balances and went to its bankers for
£187,569. The growth in net current assets
(£590,213) was £76,251.
At present, the outlook for the current
term is bright. The economy is excep-
ionally stable —the price-level is steady,
employment high and rising, export in-
come strong and industry busy. All of
which suggests that retailers’ turnovers
and profits are likely to be at least main-
tained.
Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.
CAUGHT with heavy stocks on a sticky
market, this well-established mach-
inery-manufacturing and agency business
recorded a trading loss of £9823 for 1953
—first thing of its kind to show up in the
last 18 years. The sharemarket, however,
lifted its bid for the f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords.
from 9s. 7d. to 11s. 6d. following publi-
cation of the accounts and the chair-
man’s announcement that factory out-
put was increasing and that the co. was
now trading at a profit. The return at
11s. 6d. would be 6.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c,
div. basis. Net tangible cover is 225. lid.,
of which 14s. lid. is represented by fixed
assets. The £lB p.c. cum. prefs. (25,000
in a paid capital of £276,799) seldom
appear on ’Change.
The pref. div, and 6 p.c. to the ords.
would call for £17,108, or less than half
the average profit (£42,212) for the five
years to 1952:
, Dividends 1 Re-
Dec. 31, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1947 .. 12,951 8 6 7,742 30,527
Expenses of share issue, £1702 .. 28,825
1948 . . 80,267 8 9 14,124 44,968
1949 .. 41,523 8 10 17,953 68,538
Revaluation reserve, £84,000 .. 152,538
Share premiums, £5OOO .. . - 157,538
1950 . . 52,737 8 10 22,567 187,708
1951 .. 55,485 8 10 27,180 216,013
1952 . . 31,047 8 8 22,144 224,916
Net loss by subsid., £7364 .. .. 217,552
From tax reserves, £2500 .. .. 220,052
Loss.
1953 .. 9,823 8 Nil 2,000 208,229
* Subject to £4878 goodwill.
The ords., which were passed by last term,
had received divs. averaging 9.4 p.c. for
the five years to 1952 and 5.6 p.c. for the
five years before that, and the 9.4 p.c.
was sweetened with new share-issues
totalling £156,080, which brought with
them £5OOO of share premiums. Reserves
were reduced by £16,687 net on account
of the year’s trading loss, the
pref. div. and a net capital loss by
the Queensland distributing subsidiary
(paid capital £15,000), whose trading
losses in 1952 and 1953 were £5292 and
£7804 respectively.
Over the last couple of years the post-
war-boom lost its impetus for this class
of business, and floods, bushfires and the
tightening of credit had their effect on
demand, too. In its latest report the
board sums up the position thus:
The difficult conditions which ruled during
the previous year continued in 1953, and
turnover was seriously affected. Heavy
stocks were held at the beginning of the
year, and it was necessary to reduce pro-
duction in our factory, which was carrying
heavy overhead. Reorganisation has been
carried out, considerable economies have
been made, and stocks have been reduced.
The factory is gradually increasing its pro-
duction, and the co. is now trading at a
profit.
The factory at Rosebery, near Sydney,
turns out sheep-shearing and milking
machines, petrol and diesel engines,
lighting equipment and spraying plants,
etc. Returns from these sources are sup-
plemented by sales of agency lines, includ-
ing Electrolux refrigerators and Chamber-
lain and Steyr-Daimler tractors, the
N. S. Wales and Queensland agencies for
which were acquired some three years
ago. The distributing organisation is
Commonwealth-wide.
Stocks, in at cost or under, were
reduced by £95,352 during the year, and
£31,012 was clipped off the outside
debt:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £276,799 £276,799 £276,799
Reserves .. .. 216,013 224,916 208,229
Mortgages .. .. 85,000 115,198 112,166
Overdraft . . .. 94,964 136,553 114,363
Creditors, etc.* .. 305,073 174,453 168,663
Pinal div. .. 13,590 21,144 1.000
£991,439 £949,063 £881,220
Freehold .. .. 174,127 207,044 208,737
Plant . . . . 78,673 78,274 76,882
Shares subsid. / .. 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stock .. .. 448,715 449,467 854,115
Book debts .. 270,046 194,400 221,608
Goodwill .. .. 4,878 4,878 4,878
£991,439 £949.063 £881,220
* Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £27,208 in book-debts was
due’ entirely to an increase of £33,970 in
the advances (£119,718 net) to the Queens-
land subsidiary. Excluding shareholdings,
the contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£179,531) was £16,988.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attar-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * «
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
POSITION VACANT
Vacancy for experienced
Diamond Core Driller, sur-
face work. Reply in own
handwriting stating age,
length of experience and
locations of operations. Pay
commensurate with ability,
etc.
Goldfields Diamond Drilling
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
109 STUB! STREET, SOUTH
MELBOURNE.
WANTED PARTNER
for Goldmine ready for production, fully
equipped, battery, concentration-table,
jackhammer, stopers, 2 winding engines,
compressor, pumps, eyanidation plant,
etc. Yield up to date 1000 tons for an
average of 8oz. (three ounces) of fine
gold per ton. For further information
and particulars apply
P.O. Box 1, Georgetown,
North Queensland.
PROGRESS
AND
F
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN 1
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
r
' *
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear’’
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear,
Insurance Supervision
BA WIRINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3446. BU 3446, BU 1409.
Missing Friend
ESTATE OF CHARLES McNEIL (or
NEIL).
ROBERT AUGUSTA NEIL, JANET
BARRIE NEIL and WILLIAM MeKIN
NEIL, pr their children, are entitled to
share in the £l,OOO estate of CHARLES
CHRISTOPHER AUGUSTA BURNET
NEIL (also known as McNEIL). Will
they, or any person having information
about them, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria?
Uranium
GROWING activity in the
Northern Territory, and
probable addition of the Mt.
Isa district (Q.) to Australia’s
uranium-bearing areas, have
given a fresh fillip to investment
interest in uranium-mining ven-
tures.
In the Territory the Adelaide-
registered Brocks Creek Co. has
sold 500 tons of development
ore to the Atomic Energy Com-
mission (subject to minimum
uranium content), and has dis-
patched the first 100 tons to the
treatment plant at Rum Jungle.
The co. is also considering an
offer from Rio Tinto (London)
for purchase of an option over
some of its claims, other than
those now being worked. Rio
Tinto has secured, in its own
right, prospecting licences cover-
ing about 750 square miles be-
tween the Adelaide and Daly
Rivers.
Sydney-controlled North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp., N.L.,
has investigated and abandoned
two of its options (Mt. Wells
and Brocks Creek No. 1), and
has been granted authority to
prospect three new areas —one
at Adelaide River, another
known as Brocks Creek No. 2
and a third near the Edith River.
In addition, application has been
made for reservations in respect
of five other areas in the Terri-
tory.
Adelaide-controlled Uranium
Development and Prospecting,
N.L., which holds options in
the Edith and Adelaide River
districts, and which recently
offered those on its register
1,064,000 new 2s. 6d. shares,
payable in full June 18, is mov-
ing men and equipment into the
Adelaide River site, the option
on which was recently acquired
for £llO,OOO. Here Government
assays of surface samples ranged
from 0.22 p.c. to as much as 3.24
p.c. uranium oxide. A good ton-
nage of torbernite is said to be
available. The co. has also
applied for but not yet been
granted eleven oil-prospecting
licences in the Northern Terri-
tory.
Northern Uranium Develop-
ment, formed in Melbourne a
couple of months ago to prospect
two radioactive areas —one about
17 miles south of Rum Jungle
and the other in nor’-west
Queensland —is now making, in
conjunction with
Mines, N.L., an aerial scintillo-
meter survey of what is believed
to be a very promising area in
the Mt. Isa district (Q.). No
sub-surface work has yet been
done on this field. Geologist
W. D. Mott says the co.’s Rum
Jungle area offers “exceptionally
good prospects.”
Uranium Mines, N.L., has
abandoned its options over areas
in the Edith and Ferguson River
districts (N.T.). The co. is
jointly interested with Norse-
man Gold Mines, N.L., in Wes-
tern Uranium Mines, N.L.,
which is about to test radio-
active prospects on the Dundas
and Ravensthorpe fields (W.A.).
Another co. is about to be
formed jointly by Uranium
Mines, N.L., and North-West
Tantalum, N.L., to prospect
likely uranium deposits at Wil-
giemia, near Cue, and others on
the Pilbara field (W-A.).
Another concern of which
more is likely to be heard pre-
sently is Adelaide-controlled
Uranium Oxide, N.L., which
has just taken over potential
uranium-bearing deposits on the
Yenberri reserve (N.T.) from
Poseidon, Pioneer Mines and
the Austral Mining Co.
Treatment of ore at Rum
Jungle is being handled by Terri-
tory Enterprises Pty., a sub-
sidiary of Consolidated Zinc
Pty., which is managing the
uranium project in the Terri-
tory for the Atomic Energy
Commission. Broadly the ex-
traction process comprises
crushing and grinding of crudes,
followed by leaching with sul-
phuric acid in Pachua tanks.
The pulp is then filtered and the
filtrate classified and uranium-
oxide recovered. In the Terri-
tory uranium occurs largely in
association with copper-ores,
and the residual copper in the
leach-liquor is to be extracted
by the usual cementation pro-
cess.
In South Australia, where the
State Government has not en-
couraged private enterprise to
develop and mine uranium de-
posits, a pilot-plant at Radium
Hill has been using heavy-
media separation, followed by
flotation, to recover the
uranium-bearing davidite from
load materials of quartz, mica,
and country rock of hard schist
and gneiss.
Provided the deposits are
large enough and rich enough,
there are good profits to be
won from mining uranium-bear-
ing ores. There are, however,
unusual risks associated with
this class of venture. Much of
the basic information normally
looked for in other mining pros-
pects, such as probable tonnage
of ore available and average
assay value, is not yet, and may
never become, available in the
generally accepted sense in con-
nection with uranium. Also,
there is the possibility that the
demand for and price of
uranium-oxide might alter as
Government stockpiles of the
stuff accumulate. The position
in this respect is likely to be
influenced by international de-
velopments and defence pro-
grammes. Generation of elec-
tric-power from uranium-reac-
tors is not yet sufficiently ad-
vanced to have much influence
on demand over the next few
years.
“T.M.”: Extensive deposits of
alluvial tin discovered under the
sea off the West Coast of Siam
are to be worked by grab-dredg-
ing, a novel method of recovery
so far as tin is concerned. The
depth of water, 100 ft. to 150 ft.,
and the ocean swell, preclude the
use of bucket-dredges, the usual
method of recovery. A large
London Co., which has secured
from the Siamese Government a
concession to work the area, has
been carrying out experimental
operations during the past three
years, and has evolved a satis-
factory method of recovering
the tin. New equipment for
large-scale mining has been
shipped from Britain and should
be in operation within the next
six months.
YOUNGHUSBAND LTD.
A SATISFACTORY YEAR
Speaking at the annual meeting of shareholders, held on
Tuesday, 25th May, at the Company’s office. King Street,
Melbourne, Sir Clive McPherson, Chairman of Directors, said:
We have in Southern Aus-
tralia enjoyed another good
season during the past year,
which makes eight in succession.
Early this year heavy summer
rains fell fairly generally in the
South, Recent Autumn rains
give some cause for optimism
concerning the coming season.
Stock are in good condition
generally, and we now look for-
ward to good winter rains within
the next few months. A large
area of Queensland is enjoying
a good season, but a consider-
able area of the Northern Terri-
tory is experiencing a very dry
period.
STOCK
Sheep numbers in Australia at
the last Census taken to March,
1953, totalled 123 million. The
highest number of sheep carried
in Australia was in 1942, when
the total was 125 million. We
are today probably carrying as
many sheep as at any time in our
history, and possibly more.
We are indeed fortunate, in
recent years, to hold such num-
bers of sheep in Australia, when
they produce in value an amount
greater than at any time in our
history. Our carrying capacity
is greatly increased of recent
years through pasture improve-
ment, more irrigation, more sub-
division, also more water and
fodder conservation. However,
our present sheep numbers, to-
gether with a record run of good
seasons, are factors which call
for careful consideration in land
management.
Cattle numbers at the last
Census taken to March, 1953,
numbered 15i million, as com-
pared with slightly under 15
million the previous year.
Our turnover under this head-
ing has totalled approximately
two million sheep and 100,000
head of cattle for the year.
WHEAT
Our Wheat Crop for the last
year has again shown satisfac-
tory results, the Australian
Wheat Board receipts being 182.4
million bushels for 1953-54, as
against 179.8 million bushels for
1952-53. On the 11th May, a
payment of £9£ million was
made to the growers by the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board covering
refund of Stabilisation Payment
and Fractional Payment on bal-
ance of No, 15 Pool.
WOOL
During the year, the Company
sold 134,318 bales, as against
119,343 bales last year. This is a
record figure, which was assisted
by a rather large carry forward
at 31st March, 1953. Our carry
forward this year is 4,380 bales,
as against 19,035 last year.
The Wool Year throughout
the Commonwealth has been
a successful one, and a full clear-
ance of the Clip is assured. The
price level has been remunera-
tive, and a total income near to
£400,000,000 can be anticipated.
Values have continued on a
steady basis, with the market
now recovered from the only
decline of consequence, regis-
tered early this year.
Purchasing on behalf of Con-
tinental Countries and Eastern
Europe has been more pro-
nounced this Season, although
the United Kingdom continues
as our largest individual buyer.
Japan did not operate so freely
as formerly, and America has
acquired approximately the same
weight as last year. Russia
bought in Australia wool to the
value of above £20 million during
this financial year, but records
do not disclose any direct pur-
chases for the previous year.
The average price per bale for
greasy Wool during the first nine
months at £102/9/3 is only
£1/9/9 below the corresponding
figure for last .season.
J.O. WOOL PROFITS
DISTRIBUTION
On the 6th April, £14.7 million
was paid to growers by the Com-
monwealth Government under
the Wool Distribution (Distribu-
tion of Profits Act), leaving
approximately £l2 million yet to
be distributed. It is anticipated
that this amount will be paid be-
fore the end of the financial year
1955. Growers have received
from the first four Distributions
Dividends totalling 20| per cent.
It is considered the next and
Final Distribution will be in the
region of 3Jr per cent., repre-
senting about 12 million, as
above mentioned.
GENERAL CONDITIONS
Australia has experienced a
period of prosperity in recent
years, based principally on good
seasons and high prices for pri-
mary products—in some cases
abnormally high prices.
The increase in National In-
come from 1939 to the present
time ranges from about £BOO mil-
lion to £3,500 million, carrying
with it great increases in costs
and higher taxation.
These two factors are giving
cause for much concern, and
must be resolutely faced, for they
cannot continue without con-
siderable repercussions eventu-
ally. It is gratifying to note
the reduced taxation last year,
particularly in the retrospective
allowance of Company Income
Tax. Taxation is still high in
Australia, being about 28 per
cent, of the National Income.
Present high costs must be
countered by greater production
through more work and greater
efficiency in industry, otherwise
I am afraid our present standards
must suffer.
The dangerous suggestion of
the unlimited use of Treasury
Bills offers no antidote, but
would rather aggravate the pre-
sent trend of costs.
At an Extraordinary Meeting
of Shareholders held on the 23rd
April last, a Resolution was
passed authorising the issue of
350,000 £1 Ordinary shares at
par.
The Directors felt justified in
making this issue at par after a
series of good years and having
regard to the stability of the
Company.
BRANCHES
During the past year our
Company has acquired the old-
established and favorably-known
business of L. A. Fairbairn and
Cos., Melbourne, with Branches
at Ballan and Bacchus Marsh.
This Company holds a promin-
ent position in the Fat Stock
business at Newmarket, and
should be a valuable addition to
our already established Fat and
Store Stock Organisation. We
are pleased at having been able
to arrange to retain the services
of Messrs. Gordon and Don
Fairbairn as Managers, together
with their efficient staff. Our
branches now number 48.
As to the future, we look
forward to a continuity of pay-
able wool prices, with their
accompanying influence through-
out industry. It is heartening to
note in the last Cost of Living
(C Index) Return that the rise
in living costs has been halted
in most States. We look for-
ward in addition to a reduction
of taxation and to an all-out
effort to reduce costs, and
possibly with some optimism
to another good season —given
these things, we can reasonably
expect a further successful year
for Australia.
STAFF
I should like, on behalf of the
Board of Directors, to express
thanks to all members of the
Staff for the conscientious and
efficient manner in which the
Company’s business has been
handled during the past year.


Women's Letters
STIDNIET
Last week started off to the crackle and
sparkle of fireworks in all suburbs, and
with so many bonfires that the rather
rainy sky glowed to a hazy fame. In
the city the children built bonfires in
Crown-street and in Woolloomooloo, re-
lighting them after the fire-brigade had
put them out, and lighting crackers from
the blaze, but a shower of rain about
10 o’clock ended all that, and the
firemen said there hadn’t been any major
damage to property and no destruction.
On the whole, it was a rather lively
Empire Night, with a better quality of
fireworks all round.
The Victoria League combined with
the Overseas League for their reception
at the Trocadero, where the Governor,
Sir John Northcott, was guest-of-honor
and Rear-Admiral R. R. Dowling spoke
on “A Toast of Empire.” In the evening
the Governor and Miss Northcott
attended the Empire Night dinner at the
Royal Yacht Squadron, Kirribilli, where
Mrs. H. B. Farncomb, wife of Rear-
Admiral Farncomb, received the guests
with the Commodore, Sir Charles Lloyd
Jones, as Lady Lloyd Jones was unable,
through illness, to attend. In the after-
noon a party was held by the Women’s
Pioneer Society in their Market-street
rooms, whilst at the cocktail-party held
by the English-Speaking Union at the
Lyceum Club the union’s president, Mr,
Justice Herron, who was accompanied
by Mrs. Herron, proposed the toast.
☆ ☆ ☆
Parties to swell the funds of the Black
and White Ball in aid of the Blind Insti-
tution are beckoning for June and July.
On June 15 Mrs. Roy Buckland and
Mrs. C. Bouvet are holding a card-party
at the Point Piper home of Mrs. Victor
Coppleson, and on the 16th there is to
be a gala preview of “Hobson’s Choice,”
starring Charles Laughton, at Hoyts’,
Double Bay, the entire proceeds
going to the funds of the ball. On July
1 the younger set will hold a lively dance
at Prince’s in the really fancy-dress of
the 1920’5, and on July 2 Mrs. Doris
Cross is holding a card-party at the
Blind Institution. New members of the
ball-committee, enrolled last week, are
Mrs. Clive Statham, Mrs. Michael Jones,
Mrs. Hans Tronser, Mrs. R. Maisey,
Caroline Fairfax, Barbara Potter and
Sara Hordern.
* ☆ *
Mrs. A. M- Berry, of Charleville and
Brisbane, flew off from Sydney during the
week to begin a really strenuous tour
abroad as president of the Associated
Country Women of the World, an asso-
ciation which has six and a half million
members. Her itinerary includes
Colombq, where she will spend three
weeks, Pakistan, Scandinavia, Denmark,
Holland, Germany, France, Northern
Ireland, the Gold Coast, Nigeria, South
Africa, East Africa and Kenya. She will
make London her headquarters, will
attend a conference on economic and
social aspects of United Nations at
Geneva and will return via Canada and
the U.S. Her tour, financed largely by
the “Pennies for Friendship” of the
A.C.W.W., will be mainly concerned with
studying rural conditions for women in
all these parts of the world. Mrs. Berry,
who has two married daughters and six
grandchildren, said before she left, “I
am going away with the firm knowledge
that the country women of Australia are
behind me in what I am undertaking,
and will do everything possible to further
the work of the Associated Country
Women of the World.”
■to ☆ *
Poet Robert Fitz Gerald and his wife
have announced the engagement of their
eldest daughter Kerry to John Lovering,
only son of Mr. and Mrs. G, F. Lover-
ing, of Ashfield. The young couple are
both geologists. Kerry is working at
present for the Bureau of National Re-
sources in Canberra, but in September
she will sail to America to take up a
year’s Teaching Fellowship at the Uni-
versity of Los Angeles. John is already
engaged on a post-graduate course at the
Californian Institute of Technology at
the University of Pasadena. The engage-
ment-ring, a rare golden sapphire chosen
by John before he left Australia, was
“put on” by telephone last Saturday, and
the wedding will take place in the U.S.
about Christmas-time.
The charming custom of including the
planting of a tree in wedding-celebra-
tions is to be fostered in a campaign by
the Garden Club, and the first tree will
be planted by Miss Elizabeth Northcott
and her fiance. Squadron-leader Russell
Nash, the day before their wedding on
July 8. The City Council Health and
Recreations Committee have given per-
mission for the tree to be planted in
Hyde Park, so that the public can see
the ceremony, but it is not intended that
any additional “wedding-trees” should be
accommodated in public parks.
* * *
A library of books in their own langu-
ages is being established for New Aus-
tralians by the Australian Council for
International Social Service, and at a
reception held last week at the Royal
Blind Institution the honorary librarian,
Miss Marjorie Barnard, accepted a token-
group representing 500 books from Mr.
George Ferguson, of Angus and Robert-
son. These books, in 14 different
languages, Mr. Ferguson explained, had
been donated by people in England in
response to one letter of appeal in the
London “Sunday Times,” and that two
further consignments were expected later,
Guest-of-honor at the reception was Mr.
Harold Holt, Minister for Immigration,
and Mr. A. Landa and Mrs. Landa were
also present. Mr. Justice Maxwell and
Mrs. Maxwell received the guests with
Miss Aileen Fitzpatrick and Mrs. J. R.
Colless, honorary treasurer of the Council,
☆ ☆ ☆
Attending the premiere of the Common-
wealth Government’s film “The Queen in
Australia” at the State Theatre tonight
(Wednesday) will be the only woman to
have a speaking-part in it besides the
Queen. She is Mrs, W. Mitchell, of
Muloorina Station, 472 miles west of
Broken Hill; the station belongs to her
father, Mr. Elliott Price. Her only com-
munication with the outside world is
through the Flying Doctor radio-service,
and over the pedal-radio she broadcast a
greeting message to the Queen when her
Majesty was in Broken Hill.
Margaret Mackenzie, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. Mackenzie, of Seven Hills,
announced her engagement to Guy de
Low, son of Brigadier and Mrs. Raoul
de Low, of Parramatta, at a party given
by her parents at their seaside home
Moyneli. Avalon. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
While the autumn mists are ushering
in the colder days and the thoughts of
one and all rather sadly turn to woolly
vests, the fashion industry is happily hold-
ing parades of next summer’s styles as
though winter had already passed. Saba
of California, at the parade last week,
showed more than 60 models to the trade
and Press ; little dresses nearly all under
£10. Skirts seem a bit shorter, stripes more
horizontal and rayon seems to have been
pushed a bit farther back still by nylon,
cotton (mixed with nylon sometimes) and
even a sheer pure silk at a comparatively
low price.
* ☆ ☆
Pianist Jan Smeterlin is an accom-
plished cook by all accounts, and his
favorite recipe is a chocolate-cake. Mr.
Smeterlin believes that recipes should be
shared; “And he doesn’t leave out the
essential ingredient that makes all the
difference,” his wife is reported as saying.
But the ingredients he gives for it are 5
eggs, soz. butter, chocolate and sugar and
“some” finely-ground unpecked almonds
—just like that. But he might just as well
have left them out as referred to them so
vaguely. An “inspirational” cook,
obviously.
MCLCOUBNE
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, pro-
posed the toast of the Queen when, with
Lady Brooks, he attended the Victoria
League’s Empire Day luncheon in the
clubrooms. Lady Brooks wore a smart
navy wool-romaine jacket-suit with a
sapphire-blue velvet petal-toque. The
Vice-Regal party were received by the
senior vice-president Mrs. H. F. Maudsley,
Mrs. Robert Hamilton and Mrs. R. A.
Staughton, Special guests included Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins, Lieut-General
Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady Rowell, Lady
Herring, Air-Marshal J. P. J. McCauley
and his wife, and Major-General and
Mrs. A. G. Shortt.
Tasmanian-born Sister Jessie Elizabeth
Simons completed her training at the
Launceston General Hospital, whose staff
she rejoined after obtaining her child-
welfare and midwifery certificates. She
left Australia for service overseas in 1941,
and was one of the 65 nurses ordered to
leave their hospital in doomed Singapore
and board the Vyner Brooke. For three
and a half years she was in p.-o.-w. camps
in Sumatra with her fellow-nurses, of
whom 24 survived. Her story of it,
"While History Passed " has been pub-
lished by William Heinemann. Photo by
Sutcliffe.
Audiences will reluctantly farewell the
Borovansky Ballet, whose season at Her
Majesty’s will shortly close. The per-
formances have been outstanding and the
success of the ballet has been due in no
small measure to the excellent corps de
ballet. Last programme included the
lovely, classical “Les Sylphides,” “Pet-
rouchka” and “Pineapple Poll.”
* * *
The dressing was outstanding at the
Red Cross dinner held in the Myer Mural
Hall. Mr. and Mrs. Norman Myer, she
wearing jewel-encrusted off-white and
gold-brocade gown, received the official
guests, among whom were Major-General
F. Kingsley Norris and his wife, the Lord
Mayor (Cr. R. H. Solly), and Mrs. Solly,
and Minister for Labor and Immigration
Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt.
Mrs. Hdt wore her Coronation gown
of pale champagne satin with heavy gold-
embroideries on the bodice, and Mrs.
Solly wore flower-patterned white-
brocade. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu-Myer’s
gown was fashioned of tiers of grey tulle
over white; bands of white ottoman
trimmed the hem of the wide skirt and
formed a swathe on the bodice. Lady
Snow’s powder-blue duchesse satin had
trimmings of cabochon pearls ; Mrs. Nor-
man Sheppard wore off-white brocades,
Mrs. A. G. Silk ice-blue satin, with the
short full-skirt carrying pearls. Mrs. Fred
Dennett’s black tulle frock had appliques
of black velvet flowers.
☆ ☆ it
An interesting engagement recently an-
nounced is that of Nancy Jeane, younger
daughter of Mrs. J. Woodrow, of South
Yarra, to Peter Mclntosh, only son of
Mrs. G. M. A. Cox, of Toorak. Nancy,
who was educated at the C.E.G.G.S., is
wearing a sapphire ring with diamond
shoulders and is receiving good ‘wishes
from the many organisations for which
she worked as hon. ticket-secretary. Wed-
ding will be at Scots Church, Collins-street,
today; reception at Giro’s. Nancy’s
sister, Mrs. Edward Campbell, will be
matron-of-honor, and her husband will
give Nancy away. Many parties have
been held for the bride-to-be.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pianist Solomon received a wonderful
ovation from a capacity audience at the
conclusion of his first concert. Many
members of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra were there, including conduc-
tor Walter Susskind, wbo was Solomon’s
neighbor in St. John’s Wood, London.
Sir Bernard and Lady Heinze sat with
Victorian A.B.C. manager Ewart Chap-
pell. Dr. Doris Officer was with Biddy
Allen. Others noted were Mrs. Philip
Dare, Mr. and Mrs. Len Dooling, singer
Rita Miller, pianist Vera Bradford, Mrs.
Mary Lewis, Mary Coles, sisters Judith
and Elizabeth Taylor and Mrs, Margaret
Saker.
☆ ☆ &
“The Bat,” first produced in 1927, was
given a facelift when the Spotlight Pro-
ductions Company put the warrior on at
the Arrow Theatre. Letty Craydon and
Jessica Noad carried much of the night’s
burden with aplomb. In a distinguished
audience were Lieut.-General Sir Sidney
Rowell and Lady Rowell, the Mayor and
Mayoress of St. Kilda (Cr. and Mrs.
W. E. Dickeson), Lady Linton and her
son and daughter-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Linton, Mrs. John Casson, Mr.
and Mrs. Ronald Fortt and Reta Findlay.
* ☆ ☆
Florence Desmond, famous English
actress, flew from Adelaide to appear in
a concert at the Town Hall which was
arranged by Mrs. Frank Tait and a large
committee to aid the Women’s Hospital.
Mrs. Tait, who wore a short black
French-crepe frock embroidered with
rhinestones, announced at the end of the
evening that over £2OOO had been
gathered in. Miss Desmond wore a
lovely halter-neck frock of champagne
satin, with the full, short skirt high-
lighted with alternating panels of cham-
pagne and dove-grey and embroidered
with gold sequins. In the audience were
the president of the hospital, Mrs. Lyfton
Stephens; the matron, Miss Ruth
Meaney; Dr. Basil Stewart, Mrs. W. S.
Cox, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot and Miss
Kathleen Syme, all members of the hos-
pital’s board of management. Also
there were Sophie Stewart, English star
now appearing in ‘'Dear Charles,” and
her husband, Ellis Irving. Mr. and Mrs.
Alan Powell were with Mr. and Mrs.
David Syme. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
was in charge of programmes and prizes.
☆ ☆ *
Visiting English pianist Solomon was
guest-of-honor at a late-afternoon party
given by the executive of the Victorian
Jewish Board of Deputies at the East
Malvern home of the president, Mr. M.
Ashkanasy, and Mrs. Ashkanasy. The
hostess received her guests wearing a
smart cocktail-frock of black silk or-
ganza. There were 150 guests, among
whom were Mr. and Mrs. Bernard
Cowen, Mr. A. R. Blaski and his wife.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Lederman, Mr. and
Mrs. Trevor Raphke, Mr. and Mrs. N.
Super, the J. Ledermans, Mr. and Mrs.
M. Jacobsen and Mrs. Arnold Isaacson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The unusually mild weather at Caulfield
enticed younger racegoers on Saturday to
don summer clothes, with the accent on
the silk-shantung tent-coat. Wife of the
acting-chairman of the Melbourne Rac-
ing Club, Mrs. W. P. Mein, topped a
smart black suit with a dyed-ermine wrap
and a black velvet hat carrying black
ostrich-feathers. The club’s secretary,
Mrs. John Reilly, wore a small winter-
white cloche with her dove-grey tailored
suit. An attractive Ming-blue velor
cloche with an undulating brim was worn
by Mrs. W. B. Faulkner with her black
suit.
A dinky citron-yellow velor hat was
worn by Mrs. L. Greville with a char-
coal-grey suit which had black velvet and
braid on collar and pockets. Mrs. E. T.
Abraham, from New York, chose a brown
camel-hair coat and small winter-white
cloche. With a frock of honey-brown
silk-shantung Mrs. Norman Strange wore
a matching duvetyn coat and a small
ocelot cloche.


GUARD
O&yZit
'fctctJ'l' CJy
PROTECTA
sVml- Sttt Pttal.iiiJji'fig.
TILL
Bailable for every type of busineax n record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing to appearance. Send for full detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon 4s Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book <Jo. (Auau)
DF
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE. ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.— (Divorce) No. 54 of 1954.
TO KENNETH JOHN CHARLTON whose
last known address was Lindisfame in
the State of Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition
of GERALDINE PARNELL CHARLTON
of Hobart in Tasmania married woman
praying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
your absence notwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purposes
aforesaid within Thirty days after the
date of this publication an appearance
must be entered at the Principal Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart. DATED this 18th
day of May, 1954.—H. R. DOBBIB,
Principal Registrar, M. G. EVERETT, of
169 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 4436 of 1953.
TO EDNA MARIE MORRISON late of
Beach Road Bellambi New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN MORRISON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4436
of 1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter and appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 13th August 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
L. W. WILLIAMS, Solicitor, of 79-81
Oampsie Street, Campsie, by JONES
JONES & JONES, Solicitors, of 183 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO PETER HOULIHAN late of 146 Edwin
Street Croydon.—TAKE NOTICE that
BETSY HOULIHAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4409 of 1953 on the
grounds of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty and habitually leaving the Peti-
tioner without the means of support
during three years and upwards, and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
19th July 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. lAN
SHORT & CO., Solicitors, of 135 Burwood
Road, Burwood, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER DONALD SUTHER-
LAND late of 138 Canterbury Road,
Petersham.—T AKE NOTICE that
ESTELLE PEARL SUTHERLAND has
field Petition for Divorce No. 2471 of
1953 on the ground of your desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 14th day of July
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from M. B. BYLES ■ &
FREESTONE, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Acting Registrar.
S^o 0
m
01
Vi AW
m
OK
Qucdifa
Gordons
Statute ce
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late KING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Co. Ltd*
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Leon Goossens
Sydney Conservatorium could
hardly remember a more sus-
tained silence in an audience
(except for applause) than that
imposed by Leon Goossens’s
artistry. It would be a mistake
to say it was an “effortless” per-
formance—there were passages
longer than a censored screen-
kiss from which he came up
gasping for air—but what musi-
cal precision arid technical virtu-
osity could do to concentrate
interest on an oboe’s little chain
of notes he did.
In the Sammartini sonata he,
demonstrated an easy legato and
then staccato-playing in which
the notes “flew,” in “Kodak’s”
phrase, “like pips”; in a rondo
by Bach the precision and speed
of the playing made a flow of
sound that hung about, phrases
at a time, in air. “Three unac-
companied landscape-sketches”
by a Dutchman, Sigtenhorst
Meyer, may not have presented
clear pictures to many, but were
certainly show-pieces for oboe,
particularly for what must be a
very difficult effect in the instru-
ment, of controlled diminuendo,
a lessening of sound to almost
nothing. And throughout the
concert, settings of pieces by
Rameau, Fiocco, Field, Scar-
latti and all, musicianship
showed itself in such details as
the firm and perfectly-spaced
playing of the two notes con-
eluding a trill, which may seem
a small matter, but not when a
virtuoso makes it important.
The York Bowen sonata left
the vague impression of a group
of English academy flower-
paintings ; but the Hindemith
revived memories of his
recorder-trio done in Sydney
last year; closer acquaintance
with those tight and dexterous
rhythms might lead one to like
them. Henri Penn’s accompani-
ments stayed delicately in the
background except where the
pianistic sources of the works
brought them out, notably in
the Field Nocturne and the suite
arranged from Scarlatti.
❖ ❖ *
Vienna Boys’ Choir
On Saturday night 23 boys
ranging in age from 10 to 16
filed on to the platform of
Sydney’s Town Kali, took up
their places in two rows, with
the sopranos on one side of the
piano and the altos on the other,
listened to a chord struck by the
conductor, Robert Kuhbacher,
and began a group of five sacred
songs.
This was, of course, quite a
fitting opening for their season,
for the original Vienna Boys’
Choir sang for the glory of the
Church just over 450 years ago,
some quarter-century before the
birth of Palestrina, father of
church music.
The first song, “O Sacrum
Convivium,” by 16th-century
composer Giovanni Croce, un-
compromisingly austere, received
its just due of pure, even,
passionless tone, the legato
phrasing finely controlled, the
voices blending beautifully.
Every shade of intonation was
polished with extreme care, the
changes in volume delicately
graded. This effort was rewarded
by a scowl from the conductor.
Palestrina’s “O Bone Jesu” was
a cappdla singing of the highest
order, sounding like a softly-
played organ. This evoked in
the maestro an even blacker
scowl.
There followed Callus’s
“Canita Tuba,” an “Ave Maria”
by Anton Bruckner, and
Mozart’s “Laudate Dominum”
with considerable fervor injected
into its swelling phrases.
Throughout this trio of airs the
conductor snapped at his charges
with eyes and jaws, but the boys
sang on with serene imperturba-
bility.
Having paid homage to their
ancient patron, the choir retired
demurely. A few minutes later,
devotions forgotten, they all
bounced joyously back on to the
platform, dressed in various
guises—some as girls some as
soldiers —to dash merrily through
the fun of Johann Strauss’s one-
act comic-opera, “Tales of the
Vienna Woods,”
There followed some very
good lieder, including Schu-
manns “Ziguenerleb’en,” Schu-
bert’s “La Pastorella” and Max
Reger’s “Abengang Im Lenz,”
Brahms’s “Lullaby” to the set-
ting of his most famous waltz,
a fine Austrian folksong and the
inevitable “Blue Danube.” The
only infliction was probably
wished on to the unfortunate
boys: “You’ll gom a-vorizing
Mateelda viz me.” By the end
of the concert the conductor
seemed to be more fierce than
ever. The boys seemed as if they
couldn’t have cared less.
❖
Solomon
Although Melbourne is in the
middle of an influenza epidemic,
hardly a cough or sneeze dis-
turbed pianist or audience when
Solomon sat down at the Town
Hall grand and played his second
concert.
Two Bach fugues prefaced the
color and the drama of the
Beethoven Sonata in C minor,
in which the artist’s control of
his instrument seemed positively
amazing. In the dainty Schu-
mann “Scenes from Childhood,”
of which “Traumerei” is the
best-known example, Solomon’s
feet were as vivid as his fingers.
His work upon the pedals was
so elusive that the music didn’t
sound like a succession of notes,
but as something liquid. /
Three Rachmaninoff preludes,
G sharp minor, G major and the
celebrated G minor, together
with a tiny Henselt Prelude and
Liszt’s “Mephisto Waltz,” com-
pleted a satisfying and at times
heady programme. The Liszt
was all technique and no soul,
as usual, but the technique was
terrific.
❖
“Cradle Song”
The charm of “Cradle Song,”
from the Spanish of Gregorio
and Maria Martinez-Sierra, was
lost in the plodding carefulness
of its presentation by the senior
students of the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney,
Of plot the play has little—a
baby girl is left at the door of
a convent, is adopted by the nuns
and later leaves them to marry—
and it depends entirely on its
atmosphere of gaiety and tran-
quillity, an atmosphere which
needs really expert acting to
create it. The students were
not, understandably enough,
equal to the task.
Margaret Clancy as Sister
Marcella, Wendy Shaw as Sister
Joanna and Carmel O’Loughlin
as the Vicaress were promising
enough, but Peter Williams com-
pletely lost the excellent humor
in the part of the “heretic”
doctor. Pamela McGee was too
urbane and sophisticated for the
girl Teresa, and Karl Levett’s
ravenous attack on the part of
the fiance was more suited to
an ebullient Saroyan play than
to this delicate and difficult
piece.
Artbursts
Two Women Painters
Florence Broadhurst, an
Englishwoman who has been
five years in Australia, and who
has been putting down her im-
pressions in paint, has a vigor-
ous, straightforward approach
to her subjects—plenty of paint,
plenty of bold color, and hang
the subtleties. Her exhibition,
as inspected at David Jones’
Gallery, Sydney, takes in places
from Kosciusko to Darwin and
ranges over N. S. Wales, Queens-
land and the N.T.
The paintings of country
towns and of the hot, rocky
ranges of the Territory are'
pleasant enough in a direct,
brassy, photographic way,
although one cannot help feel-
ing that if Mrs. Broadhurst had
camped a little longer in the one
place she might have found
much more subtlety and atmos-
phere in the landscape.
Jean Isherwood, whose paint-
ings are in David Jones’ “walk”
Gallery, has a gentler approach
to her subjects—marine items,
mainly, such as boats, fishermen,
boatsheds and so forth —and,
therefore, seems a little more
sensitive to them. There is,
however, not much depth in the
work on show; at its worst it
is competent illustration, at its
best, quietly decorative painting.
❖
John S. Loxton
The annual collection of
suave, smooth watercolors by
John S. Loxton, at Melbourne
Athenaeum, is very attractive
and very like last year’s, with
the Harold Herbert formula
applied to the same picturesque
aspects of Victorian bush, coast
and alpine landscape.
It is the point of view of an
acute but not very deep ob-
server, a sort of pictorial Jane
Austen. It is the same in oils,
a medium, however, which can
be pushed much further. Mr.
Loxton is content to remain on
his accustomed level.
Talkies
“Knock On Wood”
The man to whom profes-
sional ventriloquist Danny Kaye
takes his dummies for repair
being a foreign agent, it’s natural
that he should select those
innocent props as safe vehicles
for transport of stolen docu-
ments. it is even more
natural that the comedian should
wring from this set of circum-
stances comedy which effervesces
right to the end.
Kaye, given ample scope for
his versatility by the script-
writer, turns with ease from
nimble dancing and whimsical
song to the spinning of pure
foolery.
Two sequences—one when he
joins a band of carousing
Hibernian exiles in a London
pub and extemporises in their
part-singing, and the other as a
demonstrator of a snappy sports-
car when a customer mistakes
him for a posh salesman —are
crackers.
The film is Kaye’s best since
his “Secret Life of Walter
Mitty.” Mai Zetterling gives
him charming support. At
Sydney Prince Edward.
♦♦♦
“I Believe In You”
The J. Arthur Rank outfit has
built a solid reputation for
attractive presentation of semi-
documentaries on crime in which
authenticity and the English
genius for understatement go
hand-in-hand. It has done Scot-
land Yard and the women police
with distinction, and it continues
the good work in this film by
turning the lens on the activities
of police - court probation-
officers.
It is lit by the three glowing
performances; one by Godfrey
Tearle as an old magistrate who
surreptitiously sketches witnesses
as he dispenses justice ; one by
Cecil Parker as a new proba-
tionary who first has to fight
down the snobbery of his old
Colonial Office days; and one
by Celia Johnson, who handles
delinquent girls with deep under-
standing. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Torpedo Alley”
Routine drama about training
in the U.S. submarine service.
The plot follows the pattern long
established for this type of pot-
boiler —hero trying to live down
past mistakes, and his eventual
vindication when, single-handed,
he staves-olf disaster. There is,
of course, a girl who saves him
from himself. At Sydney Park.


Have Patience,
Delaney!
by
BANT
SINGER
/,I’M sure you’ll pardon me
1 * I for reminding you,
| Del a n e y,” Fredericks
says, and now she’s
the lady boss of Willets speak-
ing, “but haven’t you already
tried to tell your McLardie that
Harry shot himself? Did he
believe you? Do you think he’s
more likely to believe you just
because Harry wanted to marry
me and found out that I —how
it was with Peter Olnec and me?
Do you really think that?”
“I drag you in there he’ll know
there’s a reason for it.”
“Ah. But do you really think
I’d tell him anything that would
impress him in your favor?
All the characters in this
story are entirely fictitious
and no reference is intended
to any person alive or dead.
After all, Delaney, I am Mrs.
Amber and I am well known.
You see, I could do one of two
things, I could deny the whole
thing and say I know nothing
about it or I could admit Harry
was in love with me and it still
wouldn’t make a reason for him
to go to your room and kill him-
self. You must see that. I’m
sure you see it.”
I sit down on the chair. Noth-
ing stirring me now. Because
there’s nothing to stir me. What
I thought I had has fizzled out
cold. Because the way she puts
it is the way it is. I get a kind
of sick and wrecked feeling.
About all I’ve done is make a
fool of myself, act up big and
then collapse like a busted-flush
against three cards.
I don’t even look at Mrs.
Amber. If she’s getting any sort
of kick out of me she can have
it, for mine. There’s one good
slug left in the decanter. I take
it neat. It livens me some, but
it don’t cheer me any. It don’t
cheer me, because what I think
of is Joyce Martin back in
Murrayford and the money she
puts up for my bail. I sit there
and look down at the floor and
think of Joyce Martin and what
it amounts to is that I’ve had it.
I’ve had it and I’m so tired I’ll
fall over if I don’t watch it. All
that keeps me sitting up is know-
ing that I can’t fall over with
this Olnec around. I want to
fall over I got to do it some place
where that Yugoslav can’t get at
me.
I take Olnec’s gun and fiddle
with it till I get the clip out. 1
take the bullets from the clip,
drop them in my coat pocket and
throw the gun over on the bed
beside her.
“I don’t want any guns about
me,” I says. “You can
back to him.” I stand up. I’m
shaky, I give a bit of a laugh.
“I certainly been having some
high old times round here,” I
says.
She don’t say anything.
It’s 1.17 a.m. by my watch.
“All right,” I says. “I’m sorry
I grabbed you like that. But
you’re in my position you’d
understand. I thought you knew
something about Jardine —about
why he shot himself. Well, looks
like I was wrong. I’m sorry.
That’s all I can say,”
“You ought to be sorry,” she
says. Her voice is cool. Nothing
against me in it. “You don’t
know how strong you are.” She
wriggles her shoulders. ‘ Please
sit, Delaney. You look so so
unpredictable standing up.” ?
So I sit down again, and damn
glad to do it. „
“I ask you to believe this,
she says, “because it’s the truth.
Harry Jardine’s death was as big
a shock to me as to anyone,
couldn’t understand it. Natur-
ally, when we first heard about it
here, about somebody named
Delaney being arrested, we
thought it was you who’d shot
him. We thought that until”
“We?”
“Peter and my nephews. We
thought it until you came here
to-night. You told Mac and
Bert about it, in Paddo’s hotel,
you remember. That”
“Just a minute. You knew
about Jardine and me, didn’t
you?”
“About Jardine and you?
“Look, Mrs. Amber, first thing
happened to me when I come to
Murrayford was getting pinched
when I spoke to Carson’s secre-
tary. She thought I was your
handsome Lester boy. Seems
like he was making passes at her
and she got annoyed and had a
cop waiting. Only it was me he
copped. I get out of that. Next
thing I call on Jardine at the
police-station to tell him some-
thing I reckon he ought to know,
and he runs me in. Says I’m
causing a public mischief or
something. Carson’s secretary
comes to bail me out, see, only
there’s no charge and Jardine
turns me loose. Carson being
dead there’s a solicitor handling
his affairs and this secretary puts
me in Carson’s car to take me to
this solicitor. On the way we
nearly get run down by a big
black car. In it is Jardine and
you, and Olnec driving. So what
about that?”
“Oh,” she says, “that’s what
really led to us being so careful
about you. You see, when you
came to Murrayford poor Harry
was alarmed. I remember now,
how he told me about it. You
didn’t seem to know anybody
and nobody seemed to know
you. Then he said you went to
him with some silly story and
he thought it would be a chance
to find out who you really were.”
“But I told him who I was.
After Carson was killed I went to
the hotel. Jardine was there. I
told him who I was.”
“Yes. But he was still sus-
picious. He thought it was funny
the way you came to Murray-
ford. He was frightened you’d
been sent by the police or the
revenue department. He”— ——
“Hey! Revenue depart——!
You mean Jardine knew about
the rum?”
“Of course. That’s why he
was so frightened.”
“But he was the boss police-
man round here. How could
that be? What are you giving
me?”
She gives that little laugh of
hers.
“My dear man, haven’t I told
you Harry was in love with me?”
I look at her. She’s resting on
one elbow, and her fingers play-
ing with the edge of the blanket.
She’s looking across the room
and her face got a smile on it.
Just a little smile,- but it’s that
smile of power they get some-
times when they know they got
a man where they want him.
She hasn’t got Jardine where she
wants him now, because he’s
dead, but she’s not thinking of
that. She’s thinking of the time
she had him where she wanted
him. She lies there and what she
looks like is a cat remembering
the mouse it played with before
it swallowed the mouse.
It’s like a cold finger laid
itself on the pit of my stomach.
Because I’m thinking about Jar-
dine, too, only in a different way.
I’m thinking of Jardine and her
and the way she must of got
round him to make him forget
he was a cop. I’m thinking of
what she must of done to Jar-
dine. That don’t upset me much,
because Jardine was a man
grown and ought to have known
what he was getting into. But
from thinking about Jardine my
mind gets to thinking about
other men and the cold finger
feels like a hand. Because, way
I see it, there in that room with
her, watching her, watching that
little pleased smile of her and
the way her eyes are, it looks like
a man can be damned unlucky
to know this Fredericka Amber.
Because her father dies, then
her brother, then her husband
hits a train and is killed. Carson
meets her and she gets him in
on this rum-making scheme and
he gets killed. Jardine falls for
her, finds out about the rum, but
because he’s crazy about her he
lets it go, and pretty soon he’s
dead, too. I’m not one of these
dreamy goofs that believe in
witches and the evil-eye and all
that rubbish, but I look at this
Fredericka Amber where she’s
smiling to herself about Jardine,
and before God it comes to me
like a smack in the face she could
be damned unlucky for Denis
Delaney.
Because of Jardine and this
Olnec with his ready gun and
that surly Mac and Carson
and
Carson!
Jardine jumps me quick when
I go to him with what this Lay
Down Misere Mitchell says
about Carson. Maybe Jardine
knew about Carson. Maybe
Jardine knew enough about the
way Carson died to blow his
top when I surge in with that
about Mitchell calling me up at
three o’clock in the morning.
There’s no cold hand on my
stomach now. I’m hot. Because
suddenly this room is full of a
big tangle and I’m sitting right
here in the middle of it and I
don’t like a bar of it. No matter
what way I look at it I don’t
like a bar of it. Because this
whole Willets dump’s full of
hidden things and could be full
of grief for me. So I look at
this proud Amber woman and
what 1 want to do is get right out
of Willets fast. I got a lot to
think about, but this is no place
to do it. Things happen too fast
here for thinking. So I got to
get out, but I got to make it
smooth. I got to leave here
with this woman and her Olnec
and the rest of the gang thinking
I’m still Carson’s partner and
still in on their racket.
So I put a smile on my dial,
ready for when she looks at me,
and I say, “So he was in love
with you. And on account of
he’s in love with you he lets you
get away with it?”
“He didn’t want to,” she says.
“He was always at me to give it
up. Even when I told him the
mill couldn’t carry on without
it he kept at me to give it up.”
“How did he find out? Some-
one squeal?”
“He never told me. He just
told me he knew and said we’d
have to give it up. I suspect
Paddo?”
“Paddo didn’t look like no
tip-off to me.”
“Well, somebody must have
given Harry a hint of it. He
came out here one day, about a
month ago, and without coming
to the house he went straight
into the mill and straight to the
laboratory. Mac tried to stop
him but it was no use. He
pushed through the door and
went in and, of course, there it
was.” ’ '
“And you —well, you talked
him out of it?”
“Yes,” she says, and that smile
comes back. “I talked him out
of it.”
“Carson knew about Jardine?”
“Not till a few days ago. He
complained that he thought
Harry was watching him, so I
had to tell him that Harry
knew.”
“How’d Carson take it?”
“He was most upset. He said
it was too risky. He said he
wanted to get out of it. I’m
afraid it developed into a bit of
a row. Peter Olnec and Mac
were with us. Lloyd was very
worried. But we soothed him
down. He said he’d try and think
of something and would let us
know. That was at Allendale.
We used to meet there, as I told
you. That’s the last we saw ot
him. Peter drove Mac and me
home. The last we saw of poor
Lloyd he was sitting in his car
at Allendale, waiting until we
got away. That was the night
of the accident, when he was
killed fixing a tyre.”
I didn’t say anything. I could
have said a lot, but it comes to
me less I say just now the better.
I’m beginning to get a line on
some things, but it’s dim so far.
I want time. I want time to
think, and I got to get away
from here to do the thinking.
Because all of it, so far, don t
show me a lead out from under
what’s hanging over me. Even
I go to the cops and blow this
Willets distillery and the whole
set-up wide open it still don t
prove I didn’t kill Jardine. It’s
no alibi at all, because way I
see it, the cops find out about
the racket and Carson in it and
me coming here to join Carson
in it, and Jardine knowing about
it, gives them what they been
after —the motive. And all the
time they’ve been working on
the notion that Jardine had
something on me and I bumped
him off to shut him up.
Well, that’s how it is.
I come out here to Willets to
get a line on Carson because I’m
hoping it might give me a line
on Jardine and maybe on Mit-
chell —
Mitchell!
“Say, Mrs. Amber, you ever
hear of a bird round here named
Mitchell?”
“Mitchell? Mitchell? No, I
don’t know anybody of that
name. Should I?”
“Tall coot. Got a long nose.
Slaty kind of eyes. Calls him-
self Lay Down Misere —and,
say, he’s a rum-drinker, too. A
good rum-drinker?”
“I don’t know him, Delaney.
What’s he got to do with it?”
“Three o’clock in the morning
after Carson was killed this
Mitchell calls me up and tells me
Carson was no accident.”
“No —no accident?”
“No accident. He says Carson
was dead before the wheel-hub
fell on him. That’s what I told
Jardine. That’s”
I shut up like I’m shot. Be-
cause she comes up off the bed
and puts both hands to her face
and stands there. Her mouth
open. Her eyes on me and
they’re twice the size they ought
Her face is dead white
and she’s rigid like she’s frozen
and her mouth open like she’s
going to scream.
She don’t scream. Her mouth
closes. Her eyes draw themselves
in. She makes quick, darting
looks round the room. She’s
been shocked right down to her
toes, but she don’t lose her grip-
She don’t scream, she whispers.
“The door!” /
I give her one/ look, then I
grab Olnec’s gun /off the bed and
make the door one jump and
THE STORY SO FAR
Searching for information
concerning the murder of Car-
son, and convinced that finding
it will clear himself of implica-
tion in the death of Detective
Jardine, Delaney is at the house
of Mrs. Fredericka Amber, in
Willets. After a terrific fight
with Olnec, Delaney secures
Olnec’s gun and overawes Mrs.
Amber, Olnec, Mac and Lester
Ross. Mrs. Amber then tells
him that Carson was associated
with her in illicit rum-making,
using a eucalyptus-mill as a
blind, and that Jardine loved
her and closed his eyes to the
illicit still. Delaney tries to
bully more out of Mrs. Amber,
but she recovers and laughs at
him.


yank it open. Nobody there. I
shut it again and look at her.
It comes to me the gun isn t
loaded and I lift it to get the
empty clip out, meaning to ram
some bullets in.
“Wait!” she whispers.
They must have heard the
door open and shut. They must
have been in the big room, in the
dark, waiting. Because there’s
a rush up the passage and the
door flies open and Olnec and
Mac standing there. I hadn’t
locked the door when I shut it.
I hadn’t had time to load the
gun, either, but they didn’t know
that. I watch them, with the
gun part way up, and I’m hoping
it’ll bluff them. It’s Mrs. Amber’s
move. She knows the gun isn’t
loaded. She’s got me where she
wants me, if that’s the way she
wants me. f
“It’s all right, you two,” she
says, and I got to hand it to her
the way she’s got her nerve back
and talking to them like they’re
naughty boys. “Delaney is ready
to leave. We’ve had a good long
talk and —and decided what’s to
be done. So you won’t come
near us openly, Delaney, until
it’s safe?”
She’s half-turned away from
them and I’m the only one can
see her eyes. So I take it straight
from there.
“Yep,” I says, making like I’m
snappy, “You just hold every-
thing till you hear from me.”
“You been a hell of a time
talking,” Mac says. He’s surly
and he’s plenty suspicious. She
lets him stay that way.
“Peter,” she says, and even the
way she is her voice changes
when she talks to him, “Peter,
slip out and bring Delaney’s car
to the front while he gets ready.”
Olnec looks at her, then at me,
then at the gun,
“The gun,” he says.
“Delaney will leave it with
me,” she says. The way she
says it and the way Olnec looks
at her and the way Mac watches
them, as though I wasn’t there,
seems kind of funny. But Olnec
turns and goes out and I don’t
think about it any more.
All I think about is getting
out of there. I walk to the dress-
ing-table and put the gun on it.
I get my bag and put back in it
the few things I took out. I get
my togs on over my pyjamas.
I put my hat on and pick up my
overcoat and the bag in one
hand and take the gun in the
other.
“You’ll keep me posted; De-
laney?” says Fredericka.
“That’s right,” I says.
I get it she’s stalling for time.
She don’t want to say anything
in front of Mac. I look at Mac.
He’s leaning against the wall,
watching us under his eyes.
He don’t know it, but his aunt
has just been shocked right down
to her toes. She’s good when it
comes to hiding how she feels.
But I know she’s shocked and
plenty scared and she wants me
out of Bellerive and out of
Willets. You bet I’ll keep her
posted. You bet I’ll get in touch
with her.
Because there’s got to be a
reason for the shock she got
when I told her what Mitchell
said and I aim to find that
reason.
Olnec comes in and looks at
us.
I give Mrs. Amber the gun.
She takes it and turns and sits
on the bed.
“I’ll say good-bye here, De-
laney,” she says. “I’m awfully
tired.”
“Not as tired as me,” I says.
“Well, I’ll be seeing you.”
Nobody says anything. I turn
and walk out and down the pas-
sage. I got my ears turned right
back, listening. But nothing
happens. I go out the big door
and down the steps to the blue
sedan. The dark is cool and
low down, straight ahead, a big
star is shining. The morning
star. I flip the flashlight and
look at my watch. The hands
tell me it’s 2 a.m.
Lorraine!
I got a date with Lorraine at
2.30 a.m.
Hell with Lorraine. Nothing
she can tell me now.
I hit the starter and the blue
sedan comes to life. My head-
lights pick up the entrance to
the mill as I come out the drive
from Bellerive. Then they swing
away across the railway-tracks,
show up Sam Paddo’s pub and
the post-office. They hold the
post-office a second, then swing
away again and I’m heading
along the highway for Murray-
ford.
I’m so dog-tired I’m scared
I’ll fall asleep at the wheel.
16. Mitchell Again
Murrayford is asleep when I
roll in. No sign of dawn yet,
though it isn’t far away. I got to
find some place to park the car
and some place to sleep. I cruise
down the main street. A police-
man is pounding his beat past
the Grand Hotel. I don’t look
at him. Igo over a cross-street.
A milk-van cruises just ahead of
me and I follow him. He turns
into a side-street and pulls into
the kerb. I pull in beside him.
“Morning,” I says. “Where’s
a good place to get a bed in
this town?”
“Mornin’,” he says. He’s a
wild-eyed youngster with buck
teeth. “You traveilin’ late or
early?” he says, and grins about
a yard wide.
“Late,” I says. “I’d of been
here sooner only I got a flat.”
“Uh-huh. Well, you better
make for the Central. Up by the
railway-station. Keeps open all
night on account of the trains.”
“How I get there?”
“Straight ahead. Second turn
to your left. About a quarter-
mile. Can’t miss it.”
“Thanks. You sell me a bottle
of milk?”
“Sure.”
Nothing like a pint of milk at
a time like that. I hand him
back the empty bottle and drive
on.
The Central, is one of them
old-fashioned hotels wanders all
over the place. There’s an old-
fashioned porter drowsing in a
cubicle in the old-fashioned hall,
and pretty soon he’s got an old-
fashioned room opened up,
“You drive a car?”
“Been driving thirty year,
mister.”
I give him the car keys and a
frogskin.
“Put the car away and keep
the keys till I ask for them. Don’t
wake me up this side of sun-
down.”
“Thanks, mister. What
name’ll I’ll register?”
“Delaney,” I says, ahd shove
him out the bedroom door and
lock the door and pocket the
key before the name can mean
anything to him.
All I did was peel off my coat
and pants and fall into bed in
what’s left of my pyjamas. I’m
dead to the world before I hit
the pillow.
Once I woke and saw it was
daylight and didn’t even look at
my watch. Just turned over and
went unconscious again.
Next time I wake it’s dark. I
lie on the bed and I’m some stiff
and a little sore at the back of
my head. I stretch and sit up and
find a cigarette. I stretch some
more and get up and put the
light on and look at my watch.
It says 4.10 and I jump, because
that makes it all day and another
night I been asleep. I sit down
on the bed and for a minute
I’m bug-eyed, trying to get it I
been asleep nearly 24 hours.
But it’s only twelve hours.
Because when I pull up the blind
to see what this part of Murray-
ford looks like in the night day-
light comes in. I shove the win-
dow up and shove my head out.
I’m looking across a yard at a
row of garages. Overhead it’s a
clear sky and the sunlight where
it comes into the yard got that
warm yellow of afternoon.
So it’s afternoon and I’m
hungry and I got things to do.
I close the window. It comes
to me I woke up once before
and seen daylight. When I shut
the old-fashioned porter out I
locked the door. But somebody
must of come in while I was
asleep and pulled the blind and
darkened the room for me. I
look at my bag and it’s where I
left it and not been opened.
There’s towels and soap on the
dressing-table, so I gather them
up and open the door.
Maybe twenty minutes later
I’m back in the room, feeling
good because of the shave and
the hot and cold shower &nd my
work with the toothbrush, and
what I want is a good feed.
In the vestibule, on the way
out, is the old-fashioned porter.
“The car all right?”
“Yup. You want it, mister?”
“No. Feel like a walk. Hey,
was it you darkened the room?”
“That’s right. Brought towels.
Knocked. No answer. Tipped
you was asleep. Used me
master-key. You was dead to
the world. So I snuk in, put the
towels there, drew the blind.
You have a good sleep, mister?”
Old-fashioned is right.
“See you later,” I says.
There’s a slot-phone in the
vestibule. I dial 652.
“Mellish, Hunter and Mel-
lish?”
It’s a voice dressed in skirt and
blouse.
“Put me on to Mr. Mellish,
please.”
“Senior or junior?”
“Senior.” '
“Who’s speaking, please?”
“Delaney.”
“Just a minute, Mr. Delaney.
There you are;”
“Hallo, Mr. Mellish. Delaney
here.”
“Ah, Delaney. We expected
to hear from you before this.”
“Mr. Mellish, I been held up.
And how! I got to see you
straight away, I got to talk to
you.”
“Where are you?”
“The Central. In Murray-
ford.”
“Um. We’re engaged at the
moment. Say ten minutes?”
“That’ll do me. I got to eat,
anyway. Say, Mr. Mellish, Joyce
Martin in town?”
“She is. Ten minutes.”
“Right. I got things to tell
you’ll make your hair stand up.”
“Dear me, that would be quite
a phenomenon. Ten minutes
then.”
In a snack-bar I gobble sand-
wiches and coffee. I could eat
a horse but it’s got to wait. Be-
cause now I’m busting to unload
what I got on Mellish. Things
been going round and round in
my head and I’m busting to un-
load it. So the horse has to
wait.
When I get to Mellish’s office
the girls are covering their type-
writers and powdering their
noses. Because they’re calling it
a day and about to paddle off.
One of them looks at me the
way they do when you come in
wanting to see the boss and she’s
annoyed because you might hold
her up.
bother,” I tell her.
“He’s expecting me.”
She hesitates and when I keep
on going towards Mellish’s door
she drops back in her seat and
gets on with her nose.
I give one knock and push the
door open. Mellish sits behind
his desk. Leaning back in one
of the arm-chairs is Honey, the
undertaker-man. On a corner
of the desk between them is a
whisky-bottle and a glass jug of
water and a glass. There’s
another glass. It’s half full of
whisky and water and it’s in
Honey’s right hand. He holds
it there and looks at me. I stand
at the door and look back at
him.
Mellish says, “Ah, Delaney.
We weren’t quite ready, but
come in, come in. Do you know
Mr. Honey?”
“We’ve met.”
Honey gives me a thin grin.
“Ah. Mr. Honey is an under-
taker. He’s been in charge of
the arrangements about poor
Mr. Carson. We’re just conclud-
ing them. Sit down, won’t you,
Delaney, we won’t be long.
Perhaps you’d like a drink?
Help yourself. There’s another
glass there, behind you, Mr.
Honey, if you wouldn’t mind.”
Mr. Honey don’t mind. He
reaches with his left hand and
gets the glass and holds it out
to me.
“Thanks,” I say, take the glass
and step in close to him to get
at the whisky. While I’m pour-
ing the drink and adding about
five drops of water I look down
at Honey’s face for a moment.
I go back to my chair and sit
down and take a sip at the drink
and look at Honey, where he’s
talking to Mellish, And the bells
start ringing again.
I get it they’re talking about
what Honey has done about
freezing Carson’s body and
shipping it to wherever it has to
go. I’m sitting there, only half-
hearing what they’re saying, and
and watching Honey, where he’s
sitting back listening to Mellish
and gently swirling the whisky
in the glass. He stops whirling
it and says something and starts
whirling again, in a thoughtful
kind of way, then he downs the
rest of the drink and stands up.
“Well, that’s all clear,” he says,
and picks up his hat where it’s
on Mellish’s desk. “I’ll get along
now.”
“No you won’t,” I says.
He jerks round and stares at
me. I know Mellish is staring at
me. I go out of my chair and
across to the door and turn the
key in the door and put it in my
pocket Both of them stay put,
staring at me. I put my back
to the door and look at Honey.
“You ain’t going anywhere
just yet,” I says.
He puts the hat down on the
desk and kind of gathers him-
self. His mouth goes tight. Then
it slackens and he looks at Mel-
lish and says, “What is the mean-
ing of this? Is this man”
“Pull your head in, Mitchell,”
I says. “Every time I see you it
rings a bell. At the airport, in
Carson’s room, when I seen you
sitting in that hearse, it rings a
bell. Now I got you. When you
swirled that whisky round I got
you. You”
“Delaney,” says Mellish,
sharp. “Are you drunk? Are
you in your right mind? This is
Mr. Honey, the undertaker.”
Hone y —or Mitchell —don’t
say a thing. Just stands there by
the desk and looks at me.
“He might be Honey to you,”
I says to Mellish, “but he’s the
cove conned me for a rum on
that plane. He’s the cove called
us up and gave us that stuff
about Carson. I see him on that
plane and he’s wrapped to the
ears in a overcoat and got a
cap pulled down over his eyes
and he talks out the side of his
mouth about hombres. He goes
from the plane to the airport
lavatory and whips off the over-
coat and cap and comes back in
((Continued on next page )
She don’t lose her grip. She don’t scream. She whispers, “The door I”


sssssisgga
m
~- .v-AV>
, *>■ ;
’jS?*
>e
,4>s
s
ZPA '-
'A
- «r
Higher than man had flown before
One day, in 1932, Captain Cyril
Uwins flew higher than any man had
flown before. By reaching a height of
43,976 ft. in a Vickers Vespa biplane,
fitted with a Bristol Pegasus engine,
he brought the world’s aeroplane
altitude record to Britain for the
first time.
The special fuel used on the flight
was developed and prepared at
A.1.0.C.’s Sunbury Research Station.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to
keep pace with future developments
and demands, it is ready at all times
to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
AVIATION
FD
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. L,td */S4
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
1
tTT-J 1-
*
HI (Mild
■
r M »
I S
.
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONIiX BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ”
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
a smart suit and hat and gets in
the same bus with me and 1 don’t
even know who he is.
“Something about him,” I
says, “rings a bell, but because
he’s changed his clothes I don’t
spot him. All I saw before was
his nose and eyes under that cap
and when I see the whole face
and him in the smart suit and
hat I don’t connect him with
Mitchell. But he’s Mitchell, all
right. Because he swirled that *
whisky round in the glass just
like Mitchell done on the plane
and when I see that the bells
don’t have to ring any more.
Because him swirling the whisky
makes me jump and I look at his
nose and it’s Mitchell’s nose and
I look at his eyes and they’re the
sanfe slaty kind this Mitchell has.
So he’s Mitchell, Too right he’s
Mitchell, and I got to tear him
apart to prove it I’ll tear him
apart.”
I face up to Mitchell and say,
“I been looking for you, mate,
and like hell you get out of here
without coming across.”
Mellish don’t say a word. He
just sits there and he looks from
me to Mitchell and back again
and his mouth kind of opens and
shuts. But he don’t say a word.
Mitchell is standing there with
both hands resting on the desk.
He’s looking down between his
hands. His face is still and looks
like it’s seeing something I can’t
see. Then he turns his head and
looks at Mellish, turns it again
and looks at me. Then he
straightens himself, looks behind
to see where his chair is, and
drops into it. He gives a sigh,
then he grins at me.
“You can relax, Delaney,” he
says, “The name really is Mit-
chell.” He fishes in his breast-
pocket and pulls out a small
leather folder and offers it to
Mellish.
“This will explain, perhaps,”
he says.
Mellish takes the folder and
opens it and looks at it. I see
his eyes widen and he looks like
he’s got a shock. He looks at
Mitchell, then he holds the folder
out to me,
I step forward and take it.
Inside the folder there’s a
cellophane window and behind
the window a card with the
Government Arms on it tells me
the bearer is Lawrence Daniel
Merton Mitchell and he is an
officer of Her Majesty’s Depart-
ment of Customs and all loyal
persons are hereby called upon
to assist him in any way he may
desire and so forth. I take all
this in and sit down on a chair
and push the folder over to him.
Because it rocks me and I
want to get my breath back.
I get my breath back.
“So what?” I says.
“It’s a long story,” he says.
“You’re after the rum?” I
says.
“That’s right. I’ve been after
it quite a while. Now”
“Never mind about that,” I
cut in, “What about Carson?”
“Ah.”
“Yes, ‘ah!’” I snap, “What’s
all this mystery about ringing
people up and talking about
Carson being no accident?”
“Carson was shot in the head
and 1 can prove it!”
Mellish comes up out of his
chair and falls back into it again.
His old face goes keen, like a
hawk’s.
“If you could do that, Mr.
Mitchell,” he says, “why haven’t
you done it? Why let the coroner
find it was an accident?”
“Inquest on Carson over?” I
ask.
“Yes, yes,” Mellish says, im-
patiently. “Now, Mr. Mitchell?”
“It’s a long story,” Mitchell
says.
I lean forward and stick my
face out at him.
“So it’s a long story,” I says.
“Twice you said that. Tell us
the bloody story.”
“I’ll tell you this much, De-
laney,” he says, “It’s no good
you making faces at me. If I
was the kind that scared easy I
wouldn’t be in this job. If you’ve
any ideas about using violence,
just forget them.”
He puts a cold look on me.
“Come, come,” puts in Mel-
lish, “this won’t get us anywhere.
Mr. Mitchell, may we tell you
that Delaney has been under
great strain. He isn’t an easy
fellow to get on with at the
best of times. Just now, he is
under a charge of murder. It’s
connected with the death of
Lloyd Carson, or at least we feel
certain there is a connection,
though so far we haven’t been
able to discover it. You know
the part you have played—tele-
phone-calls and so forth and
keeping yourself—er —u nder
cover. Naturally, having dis-
covered your identity, Delaney
is inclined to be —ah —rather
short. Perhaps if you were in
his position you’d feel much the
same way as he does.”
Nobody says anything for
a while.
Then Mitchell says, “There’s
a very good reason, from my
point of view, for me keeping
quiet about Carson. You recall,
Delaney, that I asked you not to
go to the police. Well, you went,
and the next thing was Jardine
getting shot and yourself
arrested. If you’d kept away
from the police ; if you’d waited,
it probably wouldn’t have hap-
pened. But you went to Jardine
and”
“Jardine wouldn’t believe me.
He thought I was a crank or
something. He”
“I know. I saw you go there.
When you didn’t come out I
guessed what had happened.
Don’t forget it was me who
called up Mr. Mellish here and
told him about you being in
jail. No, don’t interrupt. Just
listen.”
So we listen.
Seems he’s a top man in this
Customs Department and when
the Willets rum starts to flow
and the revenue boys can’t locate
where it comes from or how it’s
distributed, Mitchell gets on the
job. He soon sees he’s up against
some smart operators. He don’t
tell us how he got the lead be-
cause he isn’t giving away what
he calls professional secrets. But
he gets a lead and it brings him
to Murrayford.
That’s all it does. AH he
knows is that somewhere in or
around Murrayford is where
what he calls the centre is. He
can’t set up in business in Mur-
rayford as a revenue man, and
if he starts hanging round the
place somebody will get curious
about him. Because you hang
round these country towns and
you a stranger pretty soon every-
body is mighty curious about
you. So he decided to become
a citizen of Murrayford. Always
somebody wanting to sell a
business of some kind or other
in these places. Who wants to
sell is an undertaker. Mitchell
is now Mr. Albert Honey and
he buys the undertaker business,
retains the staff and starts in to
become a respectable citizen.
“It’s only two months ago,”
says Mitchell. “About the first
thing that happened then was
that the rum dried up. Reports
began to come in from our men
that the illicit stuff wasn’t mov-
ing. That convinced me that
I was pretty close to it. So I
sat tight. It seemed obvious that
whoever was running the rum
had become aware that our
people were on the track. I was
certain that nobody knew I was
anybody other than Honey, an
undertaker. In a way, it was
lucky we bought that business.
Had it been a bootmaker, or
grocery, or service-station, or
something like that, it might
not have been so easy for me
to move about quietly. But an
undertaker! Ordinary people
don’t regard an undertaker as an
ordinary man. And people up to
something, breaking the law, lik
making illicit liquor, why, they
be unlikely to give an under-
taker a second thought”
“Yeah,” I says, “but the rum
dried up?”
“That’s right. And about the
same time Carson arrived here.
I was keeping check on strangers
to the town. It’s not a tourist
resort. Anyone who stayed here
more than a day would have
some business or other in the
place. Carson didn’t seem to have
any business. I got his address
from the hotel register and our
people made a check on him.
He looked like the kind of man
who could be in the rum-run-
ning. But I couldn’t get anything
on him. 1 still didn’t have any-
thing on him when he bought
and sold a couple of motor-
trucks and brought his secretary,
Miss Martin, here.
“The only thing about that,”
says Mitchell, “was the question
of why a man with Carson’s in-
terests would come to Murray-
ford, bring his secretary, and
merely buy and sell a motor-
truck or two. That didn’t make
sense and it made me watch him
all the closer. He was making
trips into the country, but I never
could find where. You can’t
trail a man in this sort of place
without attracting attention. He
made most of the journeys by
night. He always went alone
and returned alone. He always
drove out the Collier Highway
and returned that way. But I’m
damned if I could find out where
he was going or who he was
meeting. I’ve been up and down
that highway myself for a hun-
dred miles, but there was nothing
I could hook up with Carson.”
“Maybe,” I says, just to lead
him on, “he liked taking long
drives at night.”
Mitchell gives me a fiat look.
“I’m coming to you,” he says.
“Excuse me,” Mellish says.
Mellish picks up the telephone
and calls a number.
“Is that you, dear?” he says.
“Don’t expect us early to-night.
We are discussing something
most important and it appears
likely to take some time. Eh?
Yes. That’s all right. Good-
bye.” He puts the phone down.
“Mrs. Mellish,” he tells us.
“Go on, please, Mr. Mitchell.”
“Well,” Mitchell says, “that’s
the way it was. Something told
me Carson was in Murrayford
for some other purpose than to
buy and sell trucks, something
told me there was a reason why
he brought his secretary here.
He gave it out that he was here
on medical orders, but that
wasn’t good enough for me. He
was here for something else. But
I’m damned if I could get a line
on him.”
He got out cigarettes and
handed them round. Mellish and
I lit .purs and watched Mitchell
light his. We didn’t say any-
thing. No need for me to say
anything. Because Mitchell was
telling me plenty. He was telling
me why Carson was worried,
why he hadn’t wanted me to
contact him openly, why he was
having the night sessions in the
pine forest beyond Allendale,
why
(To be continued next week)


Trial
by
A. E. Lturges
STUDLEY swore under his
breath as the man stopped
at his carriage. He kept
his eyes on his book, not
raising them even when the door
opened and the man stepped in.
But in spite of his resentment
he watched closely as case, hat
and neatly-folded overcoat were
put in the rack and the heavy
tool-chest pushed under the
seat. By leaning sideways a
little he could just make out the
name printed on the tool-chest;
T. H. Lake.
He studied Lake carefully,
noting the polished boots, neat
suit and quiet tie, the well-
brushed hair. Although he was
wary of strangers, he never tired
of speculating about their
characters, background and
especially their work. This one
was easy, because of the tool-
chest. But he felt sure that even
without that piece of evidence
he would have guessed a crafts-
man. A foreman, probably ; the
ordinary hand would travel to a
job in his work-togs.
It always amused Studley,
even though he had been guilty
of it himself; the wearing of
collar and tie by foremen as a
sort of distinguishing-mark. In
the case would be overalls,
work-shirt and trousers, heavy
socks and khaki handkerchief.
And the tool-chest: was it a
fitter’s, carpenter’s, electrician’s
or plumber’s? From its size and
shape, most likely a carpenter’s,
though nowadays it was hard to
tell —they used any old box or
bag, and any old tools.
And often, thought Studley
scornfully, did any old sort of
job. When he was serving his
time a man’s tools and tool-
chest were a positive indication
of his trade; almost, indeed, of
his character. This bloke looked
one of the old school: solid,
with an air of quiet confidence.
Yes, it was a.n odds-on bet that
he was true to the chest —a
carpenter. Probably he’d
Studley became aware of a
pair of amused grey eyes. It
was too late to pretend; he was
caught. He cursed; now he’d
pay for his carelessness. He’d
been caught before; return a
casual greeting from a stranger
and before long you’d hear all
about his job, boss, wife, kids,
love affairs . . .
The train started with a jerk,
throwing them from their seats.
Studley seized the opportunity
to cover up his embarrassment.
“What the hell’s the driver think
he’s doing?” he growled.
Lake smiled wryly. “Just
letting us know we’re off.”
Studley snorted. “You’d think
from the way some of them
drive that it was their first time
on the footplate.”
Lake nodded and unfolded a
newspaper. Studley felt discon-
certed ; it looked as though Lake
was wary of him. He smiled
ruefully to himself and turned
back to his book. Now and
then he shot a glance at Lake,
who seemed absorbed in his
paper and apparently oblivious
of Studley’s presence.
TvAY turned to evening as
Studley watched the passing
country. It still, after six years,
seemed alien ; it had neither the
soft fresh green of England nor
the lushness of the Gold Coast.
It was so dull; dull greys, greens
and browns; and the trees,
rocks and shrubs looked un-
changing, almost without life ;
they looked to Studley as though
ihey had stayed as they were
now day after day for centuries ;
it gave him a feeling almost of
nightmare
“Getting a bit dark for read-
ing.”
Lake closed his newspaper,
and Studley watched him fold it
precisely into three and place it
in the rack. His neatness irri-
tated Studley, though he him-
self was neat to the point of
mania.
Lake took his watch from his
vest pocket, clicked open the case
and studied it carefully. “Should
be at Sefton in a few minutes.
Get a snack there.”
Studley snorted. “Way she’s
being driven be lucky if we’re
within half-an-hour of schedule.”
As if to give him the lie the
engine whistled and the train
slowed. A couple of minutes
later they came to a jerky halt
at a brightly-lit platform; a
voice bawled “Sefton! Ten
minutes for refreshments!”
It surprised Studley to see how
many passengers there were;
they surged to the counter,
bustling and shoving. He rea-
lised how lucky he was to have
a carriage with only one other
in it, and he started to worry
in case someone from a crowded
carriage noticed the empty seats.
TTE and Lake carried the thick
cups and plates to a rickety
table. Studley preferred to eat
alone, but was afraid of seem-
ing churlish. He was surprised
to see that Lake had a pie ; he
hadn’t thought of a pie. As he
chewed his sandwiches he
watched Lake bite gingerly into
the hot pastry, and the juices
ran in his mouth. Perhaps he’d
have a pie next, if there was
time. He chewed more quickly.
Lake sipped his tea. “Phew!
Why do they always make it so
hot? I say, these pies are good ;
you ought to try one.”
Studley’s face set. “I prefer
sandwiches,” he said, and
chewed stolidly on, trying not to
look at the juicy meat and crisp
pastry on Lake’s piece.
Afterwards, while waiting for
the warning- bell, they walked up
and down the platform to
stretch their legs. Studley
stopped by the engine and peered
at the nameplate. “H’m, same
type as we were using twenty-
odd years back.”
The bell rang, the guard
yelled and the passengers
hurried to their seats. Studley
and Lake settled in their
corners; Studley felt anxious if
anyone glanced in. As the train
jerked off Lake consulted his
watch. Then he looked across
at Studley. “You’re a railway
man, then?”
Studley nodded. “Appren-
ticed as a railway-fitter.”
“Where?”
“London - Brighton - South
Coast.”
“You’re an Englishman?”
“Brighton-born.”
Lake put out his hand.
“Shake.”
“What, you too?”
“London; and a railway-
worker.”
“Good Lord!”
“Small world.”
They laughed, and looked at
one another with new interest.
“You come here straight from
England?” Lake asked.
“No ; six years on the Gold
Coast in between.”
Lake stared; then he smiled
crookedly, “Now, now ; hold
on a minute. Whose leg are you
pulling?”
“What d’you mean?”
Lake frowned. “You really
were on the Gold Coast?”
“Of course.”
“Well! You wouldn’t read
about it. English, railways, and
Gold Coast.”
“You mean you?”
“Yes, I was there.”
“I’ll be blowed. When?”
“Let’s see. It’s longer ago
than I care to admit. Er . . .
yes, nineteen-ten I went there;
I was there for a bit over three
years, and back home just in
time to join-up.”
“Ah. We missed by a couple
of years, then. I was there nine-
teen-oh-two to eight. What were
you doing?”
“Carpentering.”
Right first time, thought
Studley smugly.
“And you?” . . ,
“Assembling locos. Driving.”
-How’d you get here?”
“Malaria. Tried New Zea-
land, but the quack kicked me
out of Auckland—reckoned the
climate was wrong.”
“Where are you off to now?”
“Chasing a job. Heard they
want fitters up at Warrington.”
T AKE was silent for a while.
J-' He looked consideringly at
Studley. “How about coming
right through to Tindale with
me?”
“What doing?”
“Carpentering.”
Studley chuckled. “I’m no
bloody wood - butcher. No
offence; but I couldn’t build a
chookhouse.”
“You served your time as a
fitter?”
“Yes.”
“You can handle tools, then.”
“Fitter’s tools.”
“No matter. I’ve got enough
tools. Lean show you what to
,
do. You can work with me.
In a few months you 11 be a
carpenter as well as a fitter. He
smiled persuasively. Second
string to your bow.
Studley looked uncertain.
Lake went cn. I’m foreman-
carpenter for Loxton s.
(Studley smiled to himself;
f° remaa 5 collar and tie.) Well
be on bridges, culverts, cattle-
guards gates; all that type of
work. Nothing to it. They sent
me down to Sydney to pick up
three carpenters and look em
over. Only one turned up ; he’s
coming in a couple of days. So
we’re two short. It’s a bit of a
worry to me. So if you come
you’ll be helping me as well as
yourself. And the job’ll last;
I can promise you that.”
Studley frowned and chewed
his thumbnail. He was surprised
that he was hesitating over a
job. But he hated the idea of
taking on something he couldn’t
make a good list of. He des-
pised five-eight fitters. He liked
to feel on top of a job, to take
a pride in it. Still, it was a job.
And probably good money. God
knows, he could do with some.
The wife and kids in Sydney
with barely enough to last them
a fortnight. And he hadn’t
asked for the job ; it was offered
to him. Nor had he pretended
he could do the work; on the
contrary. Who in their right
mind would knock it back? And
the fitting jobs might be filled.
Which would mean back to
Sydney empty-handed, A nice
thought. Perhaps he could take
this until he built up a bit of a
bank and then look for another
job at his own game.
He looked at Lake. “I’ll give
it a go . . . Thanks,”
Lake beamed. “Good on you.
You won’t regret it.” He con-
sulted his watch. “About two
hours to go. I suggest we get a
bit of shut-eye. Pity to waste
these seats.”
STUDLEY woke to the sound
of stirring. For a sleepy
second he wondered where he
was ; then he saw Lake bending
over a pot on the stove. Ah,
yes; Lake’s hut. Last night,
nearly two o’clock when they
arrived; they’d turned-in dog-
tired, without so much as a drink
or a wash. He looked round
the hut with interest. As he’d
expected, it was as neat as a
newly-married’s kitchen. Shelves
covered one wall; a pine-topped
table, scrubbed almost white,
was set at one end for break-
fast ; a Coolgardie safe stood
near the door ; and as well as
the wooden chairs at the table
there were two comfortable-
looking armchairs on either side
of the stove. Studley thought of
some of the huts he’d been in—
hunters’ huts: swarms of flies
on uncovered food, unwashed
plates and mugs, old boxes for
chairs, remains of skinned ani-
mals strewn about outside.
“Ah, you’re awake. How are
you feeling?”
“Dry; and nervous.”
Lake laughed. We’ll soon fix
the first; and as for the second,
forget it; the job’s in the bag.
The manager’ll take my word
for it that you’re a carpenter,
and in a month or so you will
be one.”
Studley grinned. “You make
it sound easy.”
“It is . . . Come on, you’d
better hop out; I’m just going
to make the tea. There’s a basin
outside, and you’ll find a clean
towel in that cupboard nearest
the safe.”
'THE manager shook hands,
and looked at Studley
appraisingly.
“Where are the others?” he
asked Lake.
Lake shot a glance at Studley.
“One’s coming up in a day or
two. The others didn’t show
up.”
The manager pulled a face.
“You’d think jobs were plenti-
ful.” He turned to Studley.
“Can you start right away? Got
your gear?”
Studley hesitated. He felt
the manager’s eyes searching
him. The eyes of a man used to
summing-up men. Studley felt
small and mean. He didn’t like
it. He was used to feeling proud
of himself, for he knew that at
his own game he could stand
comparison with anyone. But
as a carpenter ... He felt
tempted to confess.
Lake spoke quickly to the
manager. “He hasn’t got his
full kit here yet. But I’ll take
him with me, and he can use
my tools till his own come.
When the other bloke arrives
I’ll pick him a good offsider,
and then I thifik the four of us
o Continued on page 31)
THE WAITING WEATHER
These grey and quiet days, this waiting weather—
I should not think of this, if someone said,
“What weather is best?” No, my vote for a roaring gale,
The cold wet gasping shock if you turn your head
As it sweeps you along; night and day the wild clouds driven
Till through rents of azure the light floods, far and high
Down the hazy coast, on the foaming reefs and the head-
lands
On the streaming track and the glittering, blowing bush
Scoured clean by that vast passion of sea and sky.
Or my Words would stumble at winter’s miracle
Those noons when no breath dims the world’s bright glass,
When the west wind dies and the hills are cut like jewels
And each sharp leaf, each tuft of silver grass
Shine clear in the gentle sun that warms to the bone;
And the shadows, cold as water, still increase
And lie dark blue on the land, as beautiful
As the long sorrows of a faithful life
Seen at the last from the mountain of God’s peace.
Or those rich days at the end of a good summer
When the strong, hot sun drowns all the earth in gold—
Amethyst bloom on the high slopes of forest,
Emerald glow in the foothill’s grassy fold
All deeply set in gold, gold poured and squandered
Yet still he is weighed with wealth, sinks splendidly
Until the great flame of his passing fades
Behind the black range, and on mists of lilac
The round white moon stands calm above the sea.
Yes, I could talk them tired, and then remember
In silence and alone, these other days.
Some things I cannot explain. So grey, so quiet—
Yet all my life I have known an inward blaze
Of expectation in this weather, a listening,
A waiting .... There are houses that decay,
Narrow and elegant, in an older suburb
Behind camellias and huge camphor-laurels
Whose smell is warm and dry on the damp, still day.
And to me it comes like an air from a long-sought country
And the way the vine leaves grow along the wall
In the dull light, has meaning. At that path’s end
A door 1 could knock, and listen: an empty hall
Echoing, a deeper hush, and my own loud breathing
Then, from far inside the house, the footsteps. Be sure
They are coming, nearer and nearer. And then the shadow
Darkening the colored glass . . .
On such a day
Perhaps it will be Death who will open the door.
n.s.w.
NAN McDONALD.


m
m
m
mm
i
m
Good news I
Here is good news for you —and for all men who
enjoy comfort in their clothes. Stamina has produced
for you an “All-Purpose” Coat. This attractive coat
can be correctly worn for casual wear, for business,
to your favourite sport or for an evening at the
pictures. The cut is all any man can desire —the
workmanship up to Stamina’s exacting standard —the
cloth, that wonder wear-resisting worsted, “Crusader,”
the cloth that is guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
These coats are easily Australia’s outstanding value.
Secure yours before they are all snapped up.
ASK FOR
Stamina
Sports Coats
TAILORED FROM A SPECIAL CRUSADER CLOTH
5C4.113
THE
UNItED insurance company
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
♦ DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DIOKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
Wants
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Words of poem by Victor J. Daley,
written on the occasion of the unveil-
ing of the Bums statue in Melbourne
in 1904, containing these lines:
What statue needs the Bard of Ayr?
What sham memorial urns ?
When Scotsmen carry everywhere
The name of Robert Burns.
—5BOO.
Words of poem, “Booligal Bill,”
published from 18 to 20 years ago. —
5801.
Copies of literary magazines con-
taining reviews of The Life and Letters
of Lady Wortly Montagu. —sBo2.
To get in touch with collectors of
cigarette-cards.—sBo3.
Copies of reviews in periodicals of
the British film “The Titchfield
Thunderbolt.”—sBo4.
To get in touch with Shropshire
people intersted in the formation of
a Shropshire Club in Sydney.—sBos.
To buy copy of A Drum for Ben
Boyd by Francis Webb and Century
Cookery Book by Senn.—sBo6,
To buy copy of Reflections on the
Death of a Porcupine by D. H.
Lawrence.—sBo7.
Claims to be included in the 1939-45
Roll of Honor of St. Andrew’s Pres-
byterian Church, Hay (N.S.W.),
urgently needed. —5809.
Words of verse about a ghost that
begins:
Coming home too late to dine —
Supper, with cigars and wine;
t was waiting in the study.
—5BOB.
Words of verse “Tale of a Hat
Peg” by Barcroft Boake.—sBlo.
To rent furnished or unfurnished
cottage anywhere in Sydney. —5811.
To buy copy of Cronulla, Port
Hacking and Sutherland Shire by
Frank Cridland. —5812.
Englishman, ex-R.N., sick-bay chief
petty officer many years; seven years’
English hospital experience, seeks
position N.S.W. country hospital,
offering accommodation for wife and
family.—sBl3.
Information Sought
Some particulars of 17th-century
miniature-painter named Cosway ?
Richard Cosway lived in the 18th
and early 19th centuries-%orn circa
1742, died July 4, 1821. He is re-
garded as the most brilliant miniature-
painter of the 18th century; many of
his miniatures are in the Royal col-
lection at Windsor Castle and in other
important collections. He was one of
the earliest members of the Royal
Academy (Associate in 1770 and
Royal Academician in 1771), His
success in miniature-painting is said
to have started with his clever por-
trait of Mrs. Fitzherbert, which gave
much pleasure to the Prince of Wales
and brought Cosway his earliest great
patron. He speedily became one of
the most popular artists of the day,
and his residence at Schomberg House,
Pall Mall, was a well-known aristo-
cratic rendezvous. He painted minia-
tures of many members of the Royal
family and of other important per-
sons. Some think his most beautiful
work was his miniature of Madame
du Barry, painted in 1791 when she
was Jiving in Berkeley-square.
* ♦ * *
(?) Is having the Freedom of the
City of London by virtue of member-
ship of one of the London guilds the
same as when the Freedom is awarded
for distinguished services to the
nation ? (2) Is a freeman of a guild
entitled to use the London coat-of-
arms on his stationery ?
(1) Practically, yes. Whitaker’s
Almanack says: “The Freedom of the
City of London may be acquired after
strict compliance with regulations
made from time to time pursuant to
resolutions of the Court of Common
Council. The names of applicants by
redemption who have complied with
the regulations are submitted to the
Court of Common Council for appro-
val, those applying through the
medium of a livery company being
i submitted to the Court of Aldermen
in a similar manner. Persons entitled
to the Freedom of the City by Patri-
-1 mony or Servitude (according to the
Custom of London) may be admitted
■ without application to either court.”
About 10,000 Liverymen have the
Freedom and are entitled to
vote at elections in Common Hall
(i.e., to choose two aldermen who
have served the office of Sheriff for
presentation to the Court of Aider-
men, one of whom is to be chosen
Lord Mayor). To quote Whitaker’s
again, “The freedom of the City of
London is conferred by Presentation
as a mark of high distinction for
exceptional services to the country, the
Empire or to the world at large. As
only those persons who owe allegiance
to the Crown may be admitted to the
Freedom, they alone can be recorded
as Freemen. Foreign personages of
eminence are, however, occasionally
voted the Honorary Freedom, but
their names cannot be entered on
the Roll of Freemen in view of their
nationality. Their names, together
with those of the recipients of the
Freedom by Presentation, are recorded
in the Roll of Faroe.” The following
sentence appears to give the clue to
the added privilege given to those
honored by Presentation: “Upon
occasions when it is desired to honor
a person who is already a Freeman
of the City, his name is added to the
Roll of Fame with a record of the
resolution to present him with the
Honorary Freedom.” Some of those
who have been honored of recent
years are Churchill, Eisenhower, Lord
Mountbatten, Viscount Bruce, the
Duke of Edinburgh, R. G. Menzies
and Lord Tedder. (2) We can find
no authority to do so.
Brief Answers
L.A.: (1) An ensign is a flag or
banner, specifically a national flag
or a banner indicating nationality.
Within the British Empire it is a
form of the national flag used to dis-
tinguish the Services and Dominions,
i-e., the Australian flag. (2) The
White Ensign is the flag of the Royal
Navy; the Blue Ensign is that of
the public services and the Red En-
sign the flag of the merchant marine.
.. ..R.K.M.: Jan Masaryk, Czech
Foreign Minister, and for 13 years
between the wars Czech Minister
in London, committed suicide by
jumping out of a window in Prague
on March 10, 1949, soon after the
Communist coup in that country. He
was the son and helper of Thomas
Masaryk, first President of Czecho-
slovakia (1918-35). His suicide was his
protest at the Communist seizure of
his country and the final destruction
of the democracy his father built and
of the hopes on which he had lived
during World War 11... .L.K.R.:
Democracy is based on free persua-
sion ; that is to say, it tolerates social
and economic pressures, by groups
and individuals, for sectional gains,
provided they are peaceful and con-
ducted lawfully (i.e., through courts).
Unions, however, which revert to
strikes and other forms of illegality
(violence, for instance) undermine the
very foundation of democracy and
open the way for the repressive totali-
tarian State.... G.8.R.: The first
Melbourne Cup was run on Thurs-
day, November 7, 1861; the second
Cup was run on the first Thursday
in _ November, 1862. Archer was
trained for both Cups at Terari, near
Nowra (N.S.W.), by E. de Mestre,
his owner....G.E.H.: (1) In 1946,
during the Dutch-Indonesian war,
s’everal Dutch ships in various Aus-
tralian ports were refused handling, at
Communist dictation, by watersiders
and other port-workers. The ship
you probably have in mind is the
mercy-ship Tasman, which, in June,
1946, was boycotted by the Ships’
Painters and Dockers’ Union in
Melbourne, thus holding up supplies
(including medical requisites) for
Indonesia. Can trace no reference to
her or any other ship at the time
being refused use of tug and pilot.
In June, 1946, there was also the
case of the Dutch destroyer Piet
Heim, which, damaged in a collision
with a tanker, struggled round the
Australian coast, refused haven and
repair in Fremantle, Melbourne and
Sydney—a typical example of Com-
munist mischief, connived at by the
weak Chifley “Labor” Government.
(2) The Wanganella ran aground on
Barrett’s Reef, Wellington, on Jan. 19,
1947. She was refloated <on Feb. 6,
but then sank to the harbor-mud at
the wharfside. On Feb. 9, by a fine
salvage effort, she was again refloated
and then docked. She left dock in
October, 1948, after having been 283
days undergoing repairs, and resumed
running betwen Wellington and Syd-
ney on Dec. 9, 1948 S.K.A.:
Green turtles, the commonest species
on the Barrier Reef, come ashore
from the end of October till the end
of February. They dig a pit for
their eggs in the sandy beaches well
above tide-limits (usually at night).
Turtle eggs are not as a rule liked
by whites, but they are relished by the
aborigines N-E.: (1) Divorce, or
proof of death of the other party,
would be necessary before any new
marriage. (2) In Victoria the Regis-
trar-in-Divorce, Supreme Court, Mel-
bourne, has complete records of all
divorces granted in that State
J.T.W.: The total area of Sydney
Harbor is 13,600 acres or about 21
square miles, of which approximately
half has a depth of 30ft. or more at
low water ordinary spring-tide. The
maximum depth in any part is
155 ft. at low water... .R.8.G.: The
Leaning Tower of Pisa is the cam-
panile of the Cathedral of Pisa, in
northern Italy, and was built at the
end of the 12th century. It is circu-
lar, in eight stories, each story sur-
rounded with small columned arcades.
It is 181 ft. high and leans some
14ft. from the perpendicular, part of
this inclination dating from its con-
struction W.P.: Montmartre is a
district in the north of Paris, a centre
of literary and artistic cabarets. The
name is perhaps derived from Mons
Martyrum, the hill where St. Denis
and his companions suffered martyr-
dom W.R.M.; Medina, in Spen-
ser’s “Faerie Queene,” represents the
golden mean, her sisters Elissa and
Perissa representing the extremes of
sensibility L.S.: McLachlan: An
F.A.Q. Australian by A. J. McLach-
lan, published by the Lothian Pub-
lishing Co., Melbourne, in 1948
S.M.F.: A memoir of the late Dora
Wilcox appeared in “Southerly” (No.
1 of 1954), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney, price ss.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
he addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
K.H.: Even the best verse-
polisher in the office couldn’t do any-
thing with that elegy R.M.: It
merely made us shiver G.R.S.:
How many more times are you going
to rewrite that poem? E.McP.:
When last seen your seagull was still
“circling and gliding o’er foam-
crested waves” R.JJ.: We seldom
agree with that contemporary of ours
but we heartily endorse its opinion
of your poetry.. . .M.A.C.: You are
a long way behind the field R.C.:
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
Son y, but you “conquered naught”
....P.F.; They are only album
Pieces.... J.M.E.: You seem to have
the right idea-
T , . , , .... ,
L v ®,. h f d “ of pubhshers, too.
Wlth their bellyaching hullabaloo,
To Hadeg with Mr- Kinsey and Yankee sin ,
m settle down with a bottle of gin.
T , _ _ . “
• • -K.R.S.: As you say, you have a
ot to learn M. deJ. R.: Sonny,
ace 1S too precious...-A-S-McL.:
Having got that off your chest, you
can go „° u + t and eajoy , y T urS v
••- -W-B : What a cheerful bloke you
are i G N.: Your maiden effort
“ ade a coy appearance and a quiet
de P ar ture... .C.D.8.; It is a novelty
to receive an MS. from a poet through
hls , baaker - poem however, will
not sv ff l] y°ur bank account,
•••-J H.M,: You can t finish a mys
ler y, stor y b y say i ng And , so tbe
my ? tery unsolved and has re-
?? a i, n ® d d ? at way ev ® r . since *.* * *
F - C -£; Try y our parish magazine
’ ;S' -P-E L : 11 W f t y
the office....H.S.McD.. It sut-
l? red same fat ® as a dozen oth f
Tetrov poems... .E.M.: Not permit-
tmg you to “ ar^ h to v vlctory m
our P a §es... .J.T.S.: swans
f L re fly i ng home.. . .P.T.: So weak
that bad £ be assiste d to the door.
A.R.: Tell that to a policeman.
; v - G - T - : A women s paper might
take s° me u °£ them....R.F.: Yo a
m u ight do be « er h^ th V P f
P hase is ended E O C.: Keep on
frying M.A.C.: Keep the md
out of your work.,. .M.E.. «
18 a change to find a girl aged U
wntmg thus
To the old pub they made their way,
To Quaff their rum and have their say.
?ing wild sea songs, and tell tall teles
0f frozen seas and great blue whaleB
instead of about fairies dancing on
the lawn.


Legal Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA—AT GEELONG.
1953 No. 25.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
IN THE MATTER of the MARRIAGE
ACT 1928 of the State of Victoria and IN
THE MATTER of the MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION ACT of the
Commonwealth of Australia (No. 22 of
U945).-
BETWEEN EDNA MAY RICKETTS Peti-
tioner and , KEITH ALWYN RICKETTS
Respondent.
TO KEITH ALWYN RICKETTS formerly
O/o Mr. Ivan Keats 70 Brook Street
Coogee .in the State of New South Wales
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife EDNA MAY
RICKETTS has instituted Divorce Pro-
ceedings against you on the following
grounds viz. (1) that you have without
just cause or excuse wilfully deserted her
for a period of three years and upwards
(2) ALTERNATIVELY your wife being
resident in Victoria for a period of not
less than one year immediately preceding
the issue of the Petition herein and you
being at all times material domiciled in
the State of Tasmania have without just
cause or excuse deserted your wife for
a period of two years and upwards UN-
LESS you enter an appearance at the
Office of the Deputy Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Geelong on
or before the Thirtieth day of June 1954
and also file an answer in the said office
on or before the Tenth day of July 1954
the case may proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay the costa
thereof—MESSßS. DOYLE & KERR, of
“The Exchange,” Little Malop Street. Gee-
long, and at Terang and 108 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
Related in Brief
Sundry Surprises
Lone Voyager
WE were near the end of our
voyage from England, but
still 150 miles off East
Cape (N.Z.) and not due to arrive
in Wellington till the following
day, when the smoke-room
comedian put his head in and
bawled;
“Thar she blows! Sail-oh on
the starboard bow. Up, my
hearties, and have a dekko! ”
We trooped out, and at first
glimpse it seemed to be out of
focus. Then, the skipper having
altered course slightly to have a
view, so that we passed within
about 75yds. of it, we saw what
it was —a model yacht, about
3ft. 6in. long, with 4ft. mast,
bowsprit-jib, fores’l, flying-jib,
main and gaff tops’l and painted
white.
The wind was sou’-west,
merely, a breeze, and she was
heading about south.
The exclamations arose:
“Where did she come from?”
“What chump let it get away?”
“How long has she been at sea?”
After she had sailed out of
view the smoke-room was full
of armchair yachtsmen. Her rig
was declared out of date: it went
out with King Edward and the
Britannia. Then, her port of
departure. The wireless chap,
who was a weather fan, said the
wind had been nor’-west, west or
sou’-west for nine days in this
region, and as she had her main
hauled in she could only head
into it and not run free, so she
must have been at sea over that
time if she was from New
Zealand,
As to where she would end
up, when someone suggested that
a lib. flying-fish doing 30 knots
would make a mess with a direct
hit he was scowled on as if he
had kicked somebody’s favorite
pup.
The discussion veered: “Can a
flying-fish do thirty knots?” “Do
they weigh a pound?”
“Yes,” said a young fellow,
“they can do ninety, and they
weigh a ton! I was hit with one
when I was off the Solomons
in a rubber dinghy,” and he
showed his ear, which looked like
a cock’s-comb, with a scar on the
side of his head.
The little craft was gradually
absorbed into the list of sea
mysteries and missing ships, and
when the bar closed had joined
the Marie Celeste, the Waratah,
the Kopenhagen and the rest.
On arrival in Wellington a
par, was put in the papers, but
nothing further was heard of it.
I have a pound for each of these
questions if answered:
Her port of departure? Names
of owner and builder? Date of
departure? How did she get out
of control? Her final port or
end?
SAIL O.
A Shade Warm
HIGHEST temperature I’ve
ever struck was in Mel-
bourne one July. And
I’d like to know the limit of
normal human endurance in this
regard.
I happened to be visiting a
car-body plant with a heating-
and-ventilating expert, who had
been called in to check one of
the paint-drying ovens. The oven
was an insulated metal-lined
tunnel about 20ft. long, open at
both dnds. Here the priming-
coat was dried on as the bodies
passed through in a slow, con-
tinuous stream. When we arrived
it was for a few minutes empty.
The expert walked straight in ;
unknowing and unsuspecting, 1
followed.
Two things hit me at once —
the blasting, almost intolerable
heat, which made me gasp and
want to run, and the tremendous
storm of wind, which pushed me
all ways at once. Fans set in the
oven walls kept the dry, steam-
heated air in a state of violent
turbulence, though just outside
the ends of the oven the air
was quite still.
The expert was unconcerned.
He read the thermometers on the
walls. He reached up to the
ceiling. He felt down near the
floor, invited me to do the same,
and asked me if I thought the air
was “layering.” He seemed to
think the air circulation was
poor!
I had difficulty finding a
normal voice. “Nothing could
lay in here,” I tried to scream
above the tumult, hoping he’d be
quickly satisfied. I felt I was
being rapidly dehydrated, that I
had already lost an ill-afforded
stone in weight, and that my
seared hair and shrunken eye-
balls would fall out at any
moment.
For perhaps 10 minutes he
pottered and shouted about the
oven until, after what had seemed
like half a shift, I followed him
out, sidling past an incoming car-
body.
Outside the factory we walked
into a raw, windy drizzle, com-
pleting, for me, the foundation
for a bout of ’flu which kept
me in bed for the following three
days. I had also slightly burnt
my hand, by unthinkingly press-
ing it against the metal car-body,
when coming out.
According to the thermometers
the air temperature in the oven
was 216 deg., or 4deg. above
boiling water.
M.
At Mt. Hagen
IF five orphaned children are
found wandering and a
homestead deserted, send for
Jack Lusby—he’ll be the “cause
of it all,” for didn’t he mention
Mt. Hagen in his articles from
New Guinea and tempt me
almost beyond endurance to go
back?
Do you know what Mt,
Hagen is like? Not the Mt.
Hagen of statistics, so many
thousand feet above sea-level,
rainfall 30in. a year, climate
cool to cold—just another dis-
trict post. An airstrip, a white-
painted wooden house, a scatter
of pit-pit [grassy cane] houses,
a row of native huts, a cala-
boose [pidgin for jail], court-
house and a trade-store . . .
But wait. The airstrip is a
green lawn stretching into the
mist and infinity—a lawn that
is mowed by the prisoners from
the calaboose; wild men,
kanakas true, wrongdoers from
the outlying villages and val-
leys ; some clad in royal-blue
lap-laps to denote their bond-
age, and others, latecomers to
the fold of justice, in string
kilts fore and a bunch of leaves
aft; and all with the free, wild
look that is a mountainman’s
by birthright.
They “mow” with saraps,
which look like pieces of hoop-
iron, bent like a hockey-stick at
the business-end and bound at
the other with whatever is avail-
able to afford a comfortable
grip. A line of savages abreast
across the strip each swinging a
sarap in rhythm makes the
suburban electric-mower seem a
trifle tame and ridiculous.
The white-painted wooden
house is on a hill looking down
on the settlement, and in front
and around it are what seem to
be acres of green lawns and
flowers familiar flowers:
phlox, stocks, petunias, snap-
dragons, all growing in that deep
volcanic soil with a luxuriance
that seed - merchants only
guessed at when they put the
pictures on the packets. On a
rise just a little down from the
house the flagstaff stands in
solitary splendor—no flowers
here, only lawns, close-clipped
and like green velvet.
The trade-store is built of
wood, too—the tawdry trea-
sures within must be shuttered
and locked against the greed
that comes with trade.
The calaboose is made of
pit-pit, lined with arc-mesh, and
the other official buildings also
are of pit-pit—and nothing else
could fit so perfectly into these
surroundings. Patrol - officers
and other holders of this Out-
post of the Empire live in Aus-
tralian-style houses all of pit-
pit—double walls, partitions and
floor-covering; the careless
guest who burns a hole in the
“carpet” with his cigarette is no
problem at all, for a new piece
is woven in in five minutes! The
roof is thick thatch.
And the occupants? Young
Solomons who sit in judgment
on every crime in the calendar
and out of it, and who, like the
young Yorkshireman of 23 or
24 who came casually one night
to say “Cheerio,” go off on
lone three-months walkabouts
into God knows what and where
with only the “boys” for com-
pany. Some hunt crocodiles in
native canoes—at night and by
torchlight—for sport, and, for
recreation, some grow flowers.
Tell me, have you ever seen
forty - thousand gladioli in
bloom, in beds of up to two-
thousand plants each, in rich
volcanic soil as black as pitch,
and each bed set in emerald-
green lawns? It is not easily
forgotten.
Nor are the huts of the native
police-boys—circular huts 20ft.
in diameter (pit-pit again), with
conical thatched roofs, each set
in its own square of garden,
where flowers and vegetables
mingle in happy profusion.
Those splashes of royal purple
in the gardens? Asters—they
are almost a wildflower up
there. And the lesser purple
patches? An exile that doesn’t
give a tinker’s cuss about being
so far from home—bachelor-
buttons no less! And the hedges
are trimmed, the paths are
swept, and all is worthy of those
who wear her Majesty’s uni-
form—however scanty it is.
There is order everywhere,
and beauty. The roads are just
wide enough to take Mt.
Hagen’s lone jeep; they are
lined with casuarinalike trees,
and they are swept every day.
Gardens, lawns and hedges are
perfectly kept, for the local
tribes have been agriculturists
from time immemorial, and,
their talents are wisely directed.
The whole is # set in a valley
with mountains for a backdrop
—kunai-covered mountains . . .
kunai in all shades from delicate
fawn to black, and through all
the greens to emerald, with
drifts of dark-green trees mark-
ing the folds.
There is peace there, and
beauty for those who seek those
things, and a way of life which
is yours f6r the making.
P. J. ATKINSON.
Like a Lamb?
ON October 2 Jenny was
born on a farm near
Parkes (N.S.W.). She was
a twin. On October 3 she was
queen of three square perches
of lawn at Randwick. She is
undoubtedly the finest Corrie-
dale sheep . east of Anzac-
parade.
For years this household has
collected labor-saving devices.
This latest would keep the grass
down, entertain the kids and
grow a nice fleece at the same
time. Brilliant!
Of course she’d need a few
bottles of milk until the grass
sustained her. Just a few.
Ever heard of demand-feed-
ing? It’s the idea of giving the
child food at intervals and in
quantities as indicated by the
child. This scheme is currently
popular among baby-experts.
Also babies. Also lambs. Be-
longing to an earlier school with
tidier ideas, we made neat plans
to produce bottles every three
hours, increasing to four. Jenny
had no such ideas.
It’s funny about babies. If
you have decided to four-
hourly feed your own he can
scream double forte for the last
half-hour and no one will deny
your right to follow the scheme,
despite its being out of fashion
—and noisy.
But try it with a lamb! Five
minutes of steady bleating will
bring around your head indict-
ments of cruelty, threats of the
R.S.P.C.A. and complaints
from husbands who have sick-
wives-in-bed or wives who have
husbands-on-night-shift. Five
hundred people seem to live
within a lamb’s baa of our back-
yard. We now practice demand-
feeding rigidly ...
Well, the lawn was growing
and anxious eyes were watching
for the first sign that Jenny
would take an interest in solid
food. Then it came. We all
saw her. For some days she
had been nuzzling the luscious
green buffalo-shoots, and one
morning on long stiff legs she
tottered unerringly to the back-
door, and while we were frozen
with astonishment, with quick,
practised movements she
stripped every flower and leaf
off mf wife’s prized potted
begonia!
However, Jenny’s taste in
foods quickly increased, and it
wasn’t long before she accounted
for scraps of paper, chips of
wood, a nightdress-hem and all
the lino, within a long lamb’s-
neck of the back-step.
There’s nothing shy about
Jenny. She likes company and
will come inside whenever a
door is left conveniently open.
Few things will rouse a body
from the depths of early a.m.
sleep so swiftly as to open a
bleary eye and find oneself face-
to-face with a sheep.
However, she made up for
everything at Christmas. We
organised the kids to urge her
into the lounge-room at pro-
pitious moments, and the result-
ing expressions of surprise,
horror, dismay and doubt on
the faces of visitors entertained
us better than a night at the
Tivoli. Of course Jenny often
spoilt our fun by forgetting her-
self. It’s hard to house-train a
lamb.
Lately, her eating habits have
improved, and she spends more
time on grass. Strangely, she
seems to prefer weeds to couch
or buffalo, unless there are a
few runners we are coaxing
across a bare patch. From these
she will carefully remove every
blade, taking pains to tear out
the roots while she is on the
job.
My wife is renowned for her
success with animals. Invari-
ably they respond to her affec-
tionate, gentle touch with
friendly trust and confidence.
Jenny was no exception, though
I couldn’t rid myself of the
unworthy suspicion that the fre-
quent appearance of the milk-
bottle in her fair hand played
some small part in bringing
Jenny to regard her as a mother-
figure.
This attachment brought the
mother-figure a rude shock one
day.
We heard strange frantic
cries from the drying-yard—
part of the northern pasture. We
dashed out. What a sight!
There was Mum, mouth full of
pegs, a large wet sheet half on
the line, half round her head.
Jenny, except for firmly-planted
hooves, was lost to sight under
a bulging, bucking floral skirt.
Anybody want a lamb?
ROSS WILLIAMS.
The Retort
Complete
THE natives from the camp
a mile away come around
at this time of the year
looking for gilgies in the swamp
in this Westralian neck of the
woods. Hitherto I’ve made them
welcome, yarned about their
methods of hunting and cooking
food, and magnanimously
refrained from mentioning the
missing poultry whose feathers
I’d found around campfires in
the bush.
But this year I’ve bought the
children a pony, and they ride it
around the edge of the swamp.
I can’t have holes, in which a
pony could trip, dug indiscrimi-
nately around their riding-track.
I explained this to the natives.
Except one old chap, who
pointed out that the ground was
already uneven and a few more
holes wouldn’t make a great deal
of difference, they didn’t even
pause in their operations.
Obviously firmness was needed.
I repeated my demand that no
more holes should be dug around
the swamp. That got results.
They asked, more or less in
unison, how I expected them to
get gilgies without digging holes.
They laughed heartily at the joke,
and returned to their digging.
Now there was nothing else
for it. At the risk of fracturing
a long-standing friendship I said
I didn’t give a hang if they never
got any gilgies, they weren’t
going to dig holes on my
property. To make sure, I
suggested that they climb back
through the fence.
They went, reluctantly and
with their faith in human nature
shattered ; and as I watched them
walk slowly and silently away I
couldn’t avoid a feeling of guilt.
Had I acted arbitrarily? Had
I aped the dictator, the Fascist,
regarding my fellow-men as mere
chattels? Was I a relic of the
Tudor times, when all but a few
were slaves?
I was not left long in doubt.
When about 50yds. separated us
my old friends turned and
addressed me.
“Y’ think y’ own the blanky
country?” one demanded.
“Why don’t y’ go ’n’ fight f’r
it?” another asked —irrelevantly,
I thought.
But it was an ancient elder who
clinched the argument.
“Garrn,” he yelled. “Y*
flamin’ Commo! Go back t’
Russia.”
They left without saying any
more. It seemed to be felt that
nothing more could be said.
JACK WALKERDEN.


k w * * r?JL I
,
fiTT
' ■
■F
a
IHBl^TlS^iiill^^k.
jasg-.-.i- -.■-v-sfeJy*' *■«•■■' ;
•fr
‘2o« asked for Benson and Hedges cigarettes, Sir?’*
Those who travel widely, for business or for
pleasure, must have observed how frequently
BENSON<mtHEDGES Super Virginia cigar-
ettes, made from the finest of fine tobaccos, are
called for to distinguish any special occasion
when only the best will do.
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
THE tATE KING GEORGE 1
F
0
Benson and Hedges are proud to announce that their
Super Virginia Cigarettes are available in the world’s most
famous liners, including the following great ships:
QUEEN ELIZABETH • QUEEN MARY • EMPRESS OF FRANCE
UNITED STATES • AMERICA • LIBERTE • ILE DE FRANCE
PARAGUAY STAR • CAPE TOWN CASTLE • DURBAN CASTLE
EMPRESS OF SCOTLAND • WINCHESTER CASTLE • CARONIA
BLOEMFONTEIN CASTLE • EDINBURGH CASTLE • SAMARIA
STIRLING CASTLE • GOTHIC • ANDES • DOMINION MONARCH
CORINTHIC • HIGHLAND BRIGADE • HIGHLAND CHIEFTAIN
HIGHLAND PRINCESS • HIGHLAND MONARCH • ORONSAY
CHUSAN • ORONTES • ORCADES • ALCANTARA • HIMALAYA
STRATHMORE • ORION • MALOJA • OTRANTO • MAURETANIA
There are also SPECIAL VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
for those who prefer them.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
TBW/LSfi
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divobcb.
TO JOSEPH GASLER late of 1 Colling-
wood Street Drummoyne.—TAKE NOTICE
that JIRI SIMUNBK (also known as
GEORGE SIMUNEK) has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 1343 of 1954 on the
ground of your adultery with his wife
the Respondent RUZENA SIMUNEK (also
known as ROSE SIMUNBK) If you wish
to defend you may file an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 13th of August 1954
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, 66 King
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. W. Dueshury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON. Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Horses engaged at the Q.T.C.’s
Stradbroke Handicap and Bris-
bane Cup meeting competing at
Canterbury Park last Saturday
raced (oo poorly to be considered
likely to offer serious competition
to the favored candidates for the
Brisbane double, now little more
than a week away. It is difficult
to visualise any Canterbury
runner making holes in the
Q.T.C. prizemoney.
Pipe On won his third succes-
sive Campsie Stakes at Canter-
bury, and this time carried 8.11.
His last three wins have been
achieved without a major effort..
Weighted at 7.3 in the Brisbane
Cup, or 31b. above the limit, he
appeared favorably placed, but
connections announced inten-
tion to keep the four-year-old
Kerry Piper horse in Sydney. To-
date unproved at two miles.
Pipe On may contest the Rose-
hill Auburn Stakes (H mile) this
coming Saturday, and then be
eased-up.
It was suggested on this page
three issues back that Randwick-
trained two-year-old* Telyar
would soon win, as a Canter-
bury run had been impressive,
though he didn’t fill a place.
Again at Canterbury, Telyar, on
Saturday, staged a remarkable
performance to win the Maiden
Two-year-old for colts and geld-
ings, for which he was backed
from 3 to 1 to favoritism at 2’s.
Nine horses were ahead of the
colt at the home-turn, but he
finished to such purpose that he
won the race running away.
Telyar could develop into one
of Sydney’s best three-year-olds,
and he looks every part a stayer.
Raced by New Zealander M. J.
Moodabe, for whom trainer
Maurice McCarten has enjoyed
a great run of success, Telyar is
a Count Rendered (imp.) colt
from Lady Vennachar by Beau
Repaire. His half-sister, Palfrey,
is a winner of the New Zealand
St. Leger and was second in the
N.Z. Derby. Count Rendered
won to 13 furlongs in England,
while Beau Repaire is a sire of
stayers.
• 0
Rosebery trainer George
Baker must have thought his
luck was never going to change
so far as the Sydney metro-
politan area is concerned. How-
ever, it did at Canterbury, where
he won his first city event in
upwards of 20 years. He races
the Portfolio filly Glenada in
partnership with K. Styles and
is her trainer. Glenada won the
Two-year-old Maiden for fillies
in good style. She had shown
promise of an early win when
fourth at Randwick to Gold
Nymph. Her dam, Lubra Kate,
was got by Buoyant Bachelor
(imp.) from Jin by Brakespear
(imp.), and she was bred by
R. W. Webb, Portfolio has had
a few winners on Sydney and
Melbourne courses, among them
Lady Pickwick and Spearfolio.
A son of Chatham, he is a winner
up to 12 furlongs.
“The more they win the better
the price” was once again
stressed when, at Canterbury,
Felcia won his fourth successive
race and Liquid Fire his fourth
in five starts. Felcia was quoted
at 9 to 2 for the First Ashbury
Stakes and started at 4 to 1,
while Liquid Fire was round his
starting-price, 7 to 2, most of
the time for the Flying Handi-
cap, which he won narrowly
though gamely. Felcia has been
most profitable to owner-trainer
A. Widgery, as starting-prices at
three prior wins were 3 to 1,
4 to 1 and 8 to 1, respectively.
Liquid Fire also has been a
grand winner for his owners, and
close connections of the stable
don’t exactly bet in pennies!
Every credit must go to trainer
Ron Easton, who has had many
anxious moments with the
dainty-footed Liquid Fire. He
certainly is making hay while the
sun shines, instead of thinking
about a Brisbane trip. Liquid
Fire races best on a “dead”
track, and conditions were to
his liking at Canterbury. He
has won 13 races from 21 starts,
so he has been a model of con-
sistency. For a “dicky-legged”
horse he’s an unusually sound
performer.
The McCarten - N. Sellwood
combination won three of the
eight Canterbury events —with
Telyar, Arabic and Peter Wil-
lonyx, all three horses being
New Zealand-bred. As two of
them started favorite and Peter
Willonyx at 5 to 2 (second elect),
the McCarten stable threw in
for a tidy win. Each of the three
winners had easy victories, and
Sellwood also won the conclud-
ing event on former country
galloper Rickaday. Peter Wil-
lonyx won his first Australian
race when he cleared out with
the Welter. He is a four-year-
old gelding by Hello Peter (imp.)
from Ivy Willonyx.
Lack of a race often tells
against a well-fancied runner, and
not many horses are capable of a
first-up win after months of
idleness. Track-gallops, though
often the best guide, don’t always
work out where a horse is re-
suming after a spell of some
months. One race is often worth
a couple of track-gallops. This
was demonstrated in two races
at Canterbury, though one of
the horses, Sir Malcolm, was
narrowly beaten. In the First
Ashbury Stakes Caspar was
heavily backed to favoritism,
though he hadn’t raced since last
November. He had galloped
well at Randwick, but in the race
beat only one home. In the
Second Ashbury Sir Malcolm,
who eased from 4’s to B’s, made
a gallant attempt and was second
from the half-mile till close to
the winning-post, where the
more seasoned Rickaday got the
upper hand and won narrowly.
Both Caspar and Sir Malcolm
will be better for those runs,
and may soon win.
Queensland Derby winner
Castillo, raced by E. R. Williams
and Randwick-trained by T. I.
Smith, has now had three out-
ings since resuming after a spell,
and he looks like returning to the
winning-list in the near future,
judging by his third to Arabic
and Triple Flow at Canterbury.
Castillo, a handsome three-year-
old colt, wasn’t much fancied
against the consistent Arabic
nor, for that matter, was any
other runner, Arabic starting at
2’s on. Castillo, fourth most of
the way, beat Craigavon for
third. Arabic has earned a short
spell and he will be put aside
for a few weeks. He could be
among the spring’s best winners.
Melbourne colt Ferrum,
second at two of his last three
outings, is due for a change of
luck. The youngster, raced by
his breeder (A. S. Clarke), is by
imported Billet, whose oldest
progeny are now three-year-olds.
Billet won races in England
from six furlongs to 2\ miles, the
latter success being in the Ches-
ter Cup, which he won by half-
a-dozen lengths. He was beaten
a head in a race at 2m. 3fur.
Billet is a son of Bois Roussel, a
winner of the Derby, and sire
of winners of £200,000 in stakes.
Whizbeau, dam of Ferrum, is
by John James from Beaunell
by Beau Fils (imp.).
On Saturday Ferrum was
second to Clear Springs, one of
Melbourne’s best youngsters, in
the First Ovens Handicap. Clear
Springs won with 9.8, starting
favorite at 7 to 4. Bright Beam,
winner of the Second Ovens
Handicap, was also favorite, at
11 to 4. Bright Beam now has
won at his last four starts. He
carried 9.2. Both two-year-old
winners were ridden by Bill
Williamson, who later in the day
scored on Stannum, raced by
“And, what's more, he gets results."
Ferrum’s owner. Stannum also is
from Whizbeau. His sire is im-
ported Empyrean.
Randwick trainer Maurice
McCarten, who led in three win-
ners at Canterbury last Saturday,
has happy memories of the Bris-
bane Cup, while another “Me”
(W. H. McLachlan), now a fre-
quent visitor to Randwick meet-
ings, knew his way well round
the Q.T.C.’s attractive racetrack.
McLachlan won the Cup in 1913
on Rosard and four years later
on Bunting. McCarten’s four
Brisbane Cup wins constitute a
riding-record for the race. He
won on Trainer (1930), St.
Valorey (1934), and twice on
Spear Chief (1938 and ’39).
Other “Mc’s” to ride one or
more winners of the Cup have
been N. McGrowdie, McCabe,
McGee, and McTavish —quite
an interesting feature of the two-
miler.
The Q.T.C. Stradbroke Han-
dicap of £lO,OOO, highlight of
the opening day of the Brisbane
Cup meeting next Saturday
week, has been programmed for
upwards of 60 years. Prize-
money is at an all-time high, but
the Club’s enterprise has been
well rewarded in recent years, as
fields have included some of the
best-known sprinters in the
country. Until last season the
Stradbroke had been run at six
furlongs; it was then increased to
seven—a good sprint distance.
The Fijian Rugby Union team
beat Queensland 53 points to 16
at Brisbane. Four Queenslanders
were selected fpr the Australian
team, to play the Fijians in Bris-
bane next Saturday, including
G. Horsley, who injured his
ankle in Saturday’s game. There
can be no quarrel with Horsley’s
inclusion if he is fit —he’s just
the type of formidable defender
needed—-but an ankle can be a
risk. N.S.W. forward Keith
Cross, who came back to club
football on Saturday after a
long spell on the injured list,
must have been picked on repu-
tation. Col Windon was picked
on reputation to go to South
Africa last year, and writer
thought the selectors were right,
although just about every Rugby
Union commentator in Australia
said at the time that they were
wrong; and they were wrong.
Still, it must be hard to pass
over players as good as Cross.
Garth Jones (Q.) and Eddie
Stapleton (N.S.W.) are outstand-
ing wingers in any company;
so, with the share of the ball the
Australian backline is sure to
get, there should be some pretty
work on the lines. Choice of
Burke as half in preference to
Bosler or Cox is a bit surprising.
Tooth is fullback, and there can
be no doubt about that selection
after his game for N.S.W.
against the Fijians. Some other
selections and omissions are
mildly debatable.
In Rugby Union club games
in Sydney, St. George went to
the top of the competition-table
when Eastern Suburbs beat Uni-
versity, 12-11, and St. George
beat Randwick 19-8 (before,
University and St. George were
neck - and - neck). Northern
Suburbs sprang a surprise by
beating Drummoyne 9-3, Manly
beat Gordon 22-19 in a close,
interesting game, and Eastwood
beat Parramatta 22-11.
* * ♦
For threequarters of the dis-
tance it looked as if Hawthorn
was going to stagger the packed
ground (and itself) by downing
joint V.F.L, leaders Footscray,
but ’Scray pulled it out in an
extraordinary last-quarter, be-
ginning the term with only four
goals scored and booting seven
more to just take it out, 11.12-
10.9. With Coleman in great
form, and nothing to beat,
Essendon pulverised Fitzroy,
22.13-17.12 ; Carlton shaded Gee-
long, 12.20-11.16; Richmond
mauled Collingwood, 14.13-
11.8; Melbourne beat Souths,
15.21-14.5; North Melbourne,
despite wearing its boots on the
wrong feet, was good enough to
overcome St. Kilda, 9.24-10.12.
« • •
Sydney Rugby Leaguers had a
32-25 win against the English-
men, but as for this being any
indication of the tourists’ ability
some honest doubts may be per-
mitted. The Englishmen played
loosely, with flashes of brilliance,
and didn’t back-up. But back-
ing-up and tight play are their
forte. The flashes, too, when
they came, left the locals gasping.
Lock Valentine was one player
who looked as if he couldn’t
play badly if he was blindfolded.


HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936 in the State of New South Wales on 18th September, 1947, as a Proprietary Company and converted to a Public Company on 29th December, 1952.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £2,000,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL
628,455 Ordinary Shares of £ I each .. .. .. ... •• • , £628,455
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
300,000 New Ordinary Shares of £1 each . .. .. ... • • 300,000
HELD IN RESERVE
1,071,545 Shares of £1 each •• 1,071,545
2,000,000 £2,000,000
300,000 NEW ORDINARY SHARES
OF 20/- EACH, PAYABLE IN FULL ON APPLICATION
The extra funds sought fey this issue are necessary for additional working capital to
secure the greatest possible returns by thus increasing the efficiency of the operation of
the valuable franchises held by the Company and its Subsidiary—HASTlNGS PEERING
(QUEENSLAND) PTY. LIMITED. The principal franchises are:—
CAPITAL REQUIRED t® Operate Valuable
and other Franchises in Rich Developmental Territories
ON TRACKS
1904-1954
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO. of Peoria. U.S.A. "Caterpillar" Tractors and Earth Moving Equipment for
QUEENSLAND, NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA. PAPUA, NEW GUINEA AND THE SOUTH-
WEST PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DEERE AND COMPANY of Illinois, U.S.A. John Deere Agricultural Machinery for the same territory.
BALDWIN-LIMA-HAMILTON CORPORATION of Lima. Ohio. U.S.A. Lima Cranes. Shovels and Draglines for the
whole of Australia.
"CATERPILLAR'S" WORLD STATUS!
# Throughout the world the most-bought tractor on
frocks is "Caterpillar."
f ' s
% In Australia, too. “Caterpillar" Tractors enjoy by far
the highest user preference, as every year more
"Caterpillars" are sold than any similar type.
Hastings Diesels Financial History
.Ordinary
Net Profit. Dividends.
Year ended 31st August, 1951 . . £11,790 9.2%
Year ended 31st August, 1952 . . £48,779 39.0%
Year ended 31st August, 1953 . . £58,870 12.5%
(FIGURES FROM AUDITORS’ REPORT)
This record of well-advised management and sound operation of
valuable franchises augurs well for the future development and
profits of the Company. Intending shareholders have this oppor-
tunity to participate in returns and dividends from the expanded
future operations of Hastings Diesels JLtd. with the increased
working capital.
Caterpillar is a registered name in U.S.A.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE
The proceeds of this issue of new Ordinary Shares are proposed to
be applied as working capital for the Company and its Subsidiaries.
CONDITIONS OF THE ISSUE
Applications must be made upon the Application Form accompany-
ing the Prospectus, dated 30th April, 1954, and must be lodged
direct with the Company’s Office. Copies of the full Prospectus
and Application Forms may be obtained upon application to the
Company’s Office.
The Shareholders of Hastings Deering Limited will be given
absolute priority of allotment of shares applied for not later than
the 15th May, 1954. Any shares not then applied for by such share-
holders will be dealt with as the Directors may determine. _ The
Directors reserve the right to close the issue at any time without
notice, whether the issue be then, fully subscribed or otherwise.
In the event of applications being received for more than 300,000
New Ordinary Shares, the Directors reserve the right to allot
additional shares ranking pari passu in all respects with the New
Ordinary Shares offered by this Prospectus. The proceeds of such
additional shares if allotted will be for the purpose of providing
further working capital.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which, in the opinion of the Directors, must
be raised by the issue of shares offered for subscription by this
Prospectus is £20,000, being required solely as working capital.
There are no founders, management or deferred Shares.
N DIRECTORS :
HAROLD HASTINGS DEERING, 57 Abbotsford Road, Homebush, N.S.W.,
Chairman and Managing Director.
HARVEY AUGUSTUS BLAIR, Woodlands Road, Lindfield, N.S.W., General
Manager.
FREDERICK VICTOR COLES, 92 Boundary Road, Pennant Hills, N.S.W.,
Merchant.
HORACE ALLAN HASSALL, 36 Trelawney St., Eastwood, N.S.W., Accountant.
KYLE SOLANDER KOPSEN, Woolooware Road, Cronulla, N.S.W., Merchant.
ROBERT HUGH MINTER, 104 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, N.S.W., Solicitor.
JOHN EDWARD PAGE, 22 Calvert Avenue, Killara, N.S.W., Engineer.
Solicitors: MINTER SIMPSON & CO., 31 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bankers: AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED.
Auditors: G. T. HARTIGAN & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 18 Martin
Place, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office: MAURICE HAMILTON CUNLIFFE-JONES,
F.C.1.5., The Hastings Deering Building, William and Crown Streets,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Copies of the Full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s
Registered office.
This advertisement (in which the statutory requirements as to Prospectuses have not been fully complied with ) is published for
information only and is not to be regarded as an invitation to the public to subscribe. The Prospectus, of which this is an
•advertisement is dated SOth April, 195J h and copies thereof have been filed respectively with the Registrar-General in New South
Wales (who ’takes no responsibility as to its contents), the Registrar of Companies in Queensland, South Australia, Western
Australia and Tasmania and the Registrar-General in Victoria,
Applications will be received only upon one of the forms of applications referred to in and endorsed upon a printed copy
of the Prospectus.
THIS ISSUE OF NEW ORDINARY SHARES WILL CLOSE AT 5 P.M. ON 30TH JUNE. 1954. CON-
SIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN TO THE ALLOTMENT OF ANY SHARES OVER-SUBSCRIBED,
PROVIDED THE APPLICATIONS ARE RECEIVED AT THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE
COMPANY WITHIN THE TIME STATED.
NOTE:—The minimum
subscription having
been received, the
Directors have pro-
ceeded to allotment.
The Secretary,
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.,
The Hastings Deering Building,
William and Crown Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of Prospectus described in this advertisement.
Name
Address
State


BE FREE OF PAIN AGAIN!
DXO
TRADE MARA
m
A TIS»
TIC A
il
S CIA
l)Rlf |S
9A<s°
t OM
sen**
. Eff
lA sit
Kd»’
(01 !: '
fill
Gives amazing
relief from all
RHEUMATIC
COMPLAINTS
Enjoy living again, free of the
crippling pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout.
Dolcin can do for you what it has done for
thousands of men and women throughout the world.
An endless stream of letters of thanks testify to the
rapid and prolonged relief from pain that Dolcin
gives.
Non-toxic, harmless to the heart or any organ,
Dolcin tablets contain an easily absorbed combination
of succinate-salicylate, proven more effective than
any other treatment. You can safely take Dolcin for
long periods, so start back on the road to good
health today.
DON’T SUFFER-TRY DOLCIN TODAY
DOLCIN ’™ s
relieves all rheumatic pains
SB9
Marital infidelity
Infidelity is more common
than most people wish to be-
lieve, says Dr. Abraham Stone,
marriage consultant . . . and
even if undiscovered it is still
a disintegrating force in mar-
riage.
In June Reader’s Digest, Dr.
Stone tells why unfaithfulness
seldom brings lasting emotional
satisfaction, instead shatters
personality . . . and what, after
a quarter century of dealing
with marital problems, he has
found is a major cause of
adultery*
Also in June Reader’s Digest,
31 other stimulating articles—
including “How to Stop Worry-
ing,” plus a 19-page condensa-
tion of “The Saga of General
Billy Mitchell.”
1/6 at all newsagents and
bookstalls. Get yours today.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNCLE SAM AND THE FREE WORLD
In an editorial assessment of
Uncle Sam’s generosity, London
“Daily Telegraph” says the in-
tention to bring Defence Aid to
an end is known and it’s doubt-
ful if more than a negligible
amount (if any) will be allocated
to Britain after the middle of
next year.
“If we [Britain] have thence-
forward to shoulder our own
burdens,” it comments, “the
prospect gives us occasion for
gratitude and indeed wonder-
ment at the scale and duration
of America’s generosity.
“First there were the Wash-
ington credits, then Marshall
Aid, then finally Defence Aid.
Altogether we have received
since the end of 1945 in round
figures about $4OOO million in
loans and $2500 million in out-
right grants.
“These have helped to tide us
over a period of extreme diffi-
culty. They are, of course, addi-
tional to the help we received by
way of lease-lend for the prose-
cution of the war itself.
“Other countries whose need
was as great as or greater than
ours have also received their
share of aid, amounting in the
aggregate to a vast sum.
“Nor does the prospective
tapering-off of Defence Aid to
to Britain mean that the United
States is turning its back on the
policy of support to the free
world.
“What it is doing is rather to
change direction of support in
accordance with changing cir-
cumstance. The programme for
the year beginning July 1 en-
visages total aid of some £1250
million, of which nearly one-
third is destined for Indo-China,
where the United States is pay-
ing about 65 per cent, of the
cost of the war.
“This is less than in previous
years, but it sufficiently attests
the continuing scale of American
readiness to underpin security
and promote recovery.”
Further to that “policy of
support to the' free world,”
David Lawrence in “U.S. News
and World Report” remarks
that there are moments in his-
tory “when the simple words
of a Government declaration
seem so natural an expression
of purpose that their transcend-
ent significance is not always
apparent”
“Such” he adds, “is the
nature of the pronouncement
issued by President Eisenhower
telling the world that the United
States is definitely committed to
the defence of all of free
Europe.
“Germany is not a member of
the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation, the object of
which has been to warn Soviet
Russia against any attack on the
fourteen countries in the organ-
isation. These are Great
Britain, France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, Holland, Norway,
Denmark, Iceland, Portugal,
Italy, Greece, Turkey, Canada
and the United States.
“The language of this treaty
—ratified by the U.S. Senate —
makes it clear that the United
States, for example, is bound to
regard an attack on any one of
the other thirteen countries as
the same thing as an attack on
itself. This is realistic alertness
in an airplane and atomic age.
“But up to now there has
been no provision as to what the
United States and other coun-
tries like Great Britain and
France would do if Soviet
Russia attacked Germany. It
was to ensure a united defence
against such an attack that the
European Defence Community
idea has been advanced, and
Germany has ratified it.
“With France reluctant to
sign the E.D.C. agreement or to
admit Germany to Nato be-
cause of a fear that it would
mean the rearmament of Ger-
many, the major Powers have
had to grope for a satisfactory
formula to overcome those
objections.
“The Eisenhower statement,
therefore, is intended as a re-
assurance to France, some of
whose politicians have insisted
that America’s motive in press-
ing for ratification of the E.D.C.
pact —of which America and
Britain are not signatories—is
merely to build up a defence
organisation that will make it
possible some day for those two
countries to withdraw from
Nato.
“So the President reaffirms in
unmistakable phrases America’s
conviction that the defence of
Europe in its entirety is essen-
tial to ward off possible aggres-
sion against the United States.
A similar pronouncement has
been made by Great Britain.
The President declares:
“Tn consonance with its
policy of full and continuing
support for the maintenance of
the integrity and unity of the
European Defence Community,
the United States will regard
New York “Herald Tribune"
CATCHER NEEDED
any action from whatever
quarter which threatens that
integrity or unity as a threat to
the security of the United States.
In such event, the United
States will consult in accordance
with the provisions of Article 4
of the North Atlantic Treaty.
“ ‘ln accordance with the
basic interest of the United
States in the North Atlantic
Treaty, as expressed at the time
of ratification, the treaty was
regarded as of indefinite dura-
tion rather than for any definite
number of years. The United
States calls attention to the fact
that for it to cease to be a party
to the North Atlantic Treaty
would appear to be quite con-
trary to our [U.S.] security
interests when there is estab-
lished on the continent of
Europe the solid core of unity
which the European Defence
Community will provide.’
“What this means,” com-
ments Lawrence, “is that, as
long as there is unity, America
will help with troops against
any outside attack. But it goes
without saying that if Germany
and France were to become in-
volved in a war against each
other at some future date the
‘unity’ would be destroyed and
the United States would have a
free hand to make whatever
decision circumstances may re-
quire.
“The President’s declaration
also says:
“ ‘The United States will con-
tinue to maintain in Europe, in-
cluding Germany, such units of
its armed forces as may be
necessary and appropriate to
contribute its fair share of the
forces needed for the joint de-
fence of the North Atlantic area
while a threat to that area ex-
ists, and will continue to deploy
such forces in accordance with
agreed North Atlantic strategy
for the defence of this area.’
“The historic statement by
the President,” concludes
Lawrence, “ties together all the
threads of the E.D.C. proposal
and the North Atlantic Treaty.
“The United States is com-
mitted to collective security and
asks only that all other mem-
bers of the alliance faithfully
honor their obligations when a
big crisis comes.”
Indo-China
“It is,” comments London
“Economist” on the Geneva
manoeuvrings over Indo-China,
“a wretched convention of
public diplomacy as now prac-
tised that opposing sides begin
negotiation by asking, re-
spectively, for the moon and the
earth.
“At Geneva M. Bidault has
asked for the moon, by present-
ing the Vietminh with stiff terms
for a truce on the morrow of
defeat at Dein Bien Phu, and fol-
lowing a statement by General
Navarre that France can no
longer fight such battles alone.
“Pham Van Dong, from his
side, has asked for the earth by
offering terms that would mean,
sooner or later, the elimination
of French influence in all three
States of Vietnam, Laos and
Cambodia, and their subjection
to Communist control. It has
still to be seen whether either
spokesman will show more
flexibility and desire for com-
promise. It seems unlikely.
“The Vietminh representative
has behind him the resolute and
solid backing of the Russians
and Chinese, whereas M.
Bid a u 11, with Washington
searching for a policy and the
House of Commons turning
pale at the thought of fresh
British commitment, is negoti-
ating from weakness because he
and his allies did not find in the
last five years ways of creating
in Indo-China a situation of
political and military strength.
“The idea is gaining ground
that there can be found at
Geneva, through the agility and
industry of Mr. Eden as
mediator, some compromise
between the extreme Western
view that there must be more
Asian Verduns (with France’s
allies helping) and the extreme
Eastern view (expressed by
Chou En-lai) that all Western
positions in Asia must be
liquidated.
“Opinion is beginning to
crystallise around the hope that
there can be a pause for peace-
making in Indo-China similar to
the pause in Korea, that a cease-
fire line can be drawn between
the areas of northern Indo-
China where the Communist
writ runs and those where it
does not. And already the view
is expressed that if such a line
were to become the frontier
between Vietnam and Vietminh
it would be unnecessary for the
Americans and the British to
decide whether they could check
the offensive of the Vietminh
Army.
“Whatever may be said about
the possibilities of negotiating
on the basis of partition—and
it is early to judge—it is clear
that the belief that diplomacy
can somehow spare the
American Congress and the
British Parliament a strategic
decision in South-East Asia is
dangerous and false.
“At the moment three alter-
natives seem to present them-
selves. One is that a truce be
arranged approximately on
French terms, which, through
the disbanding of Communist
guerrilla forces and the concen-
tration of regular forces on both
sides of a line, would deprive
the Vietminh of important
military advantages. Such an
arrangement is unlikely unless
someone can convince the Com-
munist team at Geneva that the
alternative to accepting these
terms is continued fighting, with
Allied intervention giving
General Navarre the support he
has publicly demanded.
“Another alternative is that
something like the eight-point
terms of Mr. Dong should be
accepted. Skilfully though these
are worded, they open the way
to a train of events that would
engulf the opponents of Com-
munism in Vietnam, Laos and
Cambodia.
“A third alternative—though
nobody has formally proposed
it —is to partition Vietnam,
leaving a victorious Ho Chi-
minh ruling a buffer State
between China and the three
southern States. Those States,
even if French forces remained,
would be vulnerable to political
and military pressure from a
movement that presents itself
as representing national feeling
throughout Indo-China,
“There may be other alter-
natives, yet to be revealed by
negotiation at Geneva, but in
one way or another they are
bound all to raise the same
questions: Who will fight, if
necessary, to maintain the free-
dom of these three States? Who
will demonstrate to Asia that
‘liberation’ is possible without
Communist support followed by
Communist domination? Who
will insist that the power of the
Chinese State shall come no
closer to Burma, Malaya and
Siam?
“Merely to say that a stand
will be made sometime or other
is not sufficient. The bluff has
been tried by U.S. Secretary for
State Dulles, and it has
ceased to work. It is likewise
obvious that neither the United


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
IT’S PASTER BY FAR BY SPEEDBIRD!
N
'
n
&
It can cost you less
to do more business
overseas
See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help
—no charge.
Convert unproductive travel time to
profit-making time. Save valuable days—•
even weeks —as you fly on 8.0.A.C.
Speedbird routes linking 51 countries.
Gain extra time to do more business,
more quickly, in more world markets.
Stop-over to relax, wherever you wish—
and still be home weeks sooner!
8.0.A.C. airliners are fully-pressurized—
you fly in perfect comfort. Hotel
accommodation, meals and surface
transport provided at scheduled night-stops.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA. BURMA. THAILAND,
HONG KONG, JAPAN, CEYLON, INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA, EUROPE,
GREAT BRITAIN, U.S.A., CANADA, CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA, BERMUDA.
fl MOM
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia). A4S / AU
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
States nor Britain is prepared at
present to promise or plan
military action on its own. In
neither country has public
opinion been prepared for such
a contingency. It is for such
reasons —some of them good
and some of them bad—that
such hopes have been pinned to
a pact from which might spring
a defence organisation for
South-East Asia.
“Is any such thing possible?
Between the non-Asian nations,
perhaps; that is to say, between
the United States, Britain,
Prance, Australia, New Zealand.
But which Asian Governments
would join fully and resolutely
in such an arrangement?
“Siam, almost certainly. The
Philippines perhaps. Burma,
almost certainly not. And even
if those nations could be
counted in, they would not re-
present either politically or
militarily a considerable weight.
To have real prestige, to achieve
the scope and political stature of
Nato, this Asian organisation
would have to include India
and, if possible, Pakistan. To
put the dilemma in its crudest
terms; a white man’s Seato
[South-East Asia Treaty
Organisation] would be an
effective fighting body, but it
would not be an effective
political body. And military re-
sistance must have a firm
political basis.
“But here the dilemma be-
comes insoluble without India’s
co-operation. If there is to be
a Seato with teeth in it (teeth
like Nato’s) it is almost certain
that India and those Govern-
ments that followed Mr.
Nehru’s lead at the recent
Colombo conference of South-
East Asian nations will not
join it.
“If Seato is to have few or no
teeth, then Asian nations might
be persuaded to associate them-
selves with it, but rather in the
manner that Burma hovers on
the fringes of the Common-
wealth. There would be a cer-
tain friendship, a certain com-
munity of interests, and a cer-
tain community of fear —that
is all.
“It would not have the power
or the will to do what the
United Nations did in Korea.
And it is still not clear how
South-East Asia can be pre-
served from Communist
domination unless at some point
that power and that will are
exercised.”
Communism in Europe
Communists have for some
years (since 1946) been losing
ground in the free-nation coun-
tries of Western Europe, al-
though their threat to the secur-
ity of some of them remains
strong. That finding, according
to the U.S. Information Service,
is supported by recent analysis
of election results.
Their loss is apparent even in
Italy, where Communists, sup-
ported by the Left-wing (Nenni)
Socialists, dominate the political
Left, in the most recent muni-
cipal elections the Communists
were defeated by the Centre-
Right coalition on March 28 in
the Southern industrial centre of
Castellammare di Stabia and the
near-by town of Battipaglia.
The combined voting-strength
of the Communists and the
Nenni Socialists declined from
40 per cent, in 1944 to 35.3 per
cent, in 1953. Since 1953, how-
ever, the Communist party has
gained some electoral strength,
an increase of roughly 3.6 per
cent, in the popular vote.
The Communists’ vote-support
in Northern Italy has remained
more-or-less steady. It has been
the poverty-stricken South which
contributed largely to the party’s
gains. The March 28 elections
were the first of importance in
recent years in which the steady
advance of Left-wing parties was
checked.
The strength of the Commun-
ists is unevenly distributed. Italy
has two-thirds of the registered
Stockton (Calif.) “Record”
CAREFULLY, CAREFULLY. ...
party-membership of free
Europe, and France has half the
remainder. Nearly half the Com-
munist-supporting votes are cast
in Italy and more than a third
in France. In November, 1953,
there were 331 Communists in
the lower Legislative Chambers ;
Italy has 143 of them, France 96,
and Finland 43. No other coun-
try has more than eight.
In France the Communist
party reached its height in 1946,
when it polled 26.2 per cent, of
the popular vote. By 1951 its
share of the popular vote drop-
ped to 25.7 per cent., and party-
membership had declined by
half from the highest figure of
800,000.
However, the French Com-
munist party is strong in trade-
union support, and at the polls
it is the largest single political
party. During the latter part of
1953 the Communists managed
to break part-way out of the
political isolation in which they
had been kept by other parties
ever since they were expelled
from the Cabinet in 1947. This
they did by making contact with
non-Communists who happened
to side with them on various
issues.
In recent years the Commun-
ists have been unsuccessful in
carrying out mass demonstra-
tions or political strikes, an indi-
cation that the great majority of
persons who vote Communist or
belong to the Communist-domin-
ated trade-unions will not'par-
ticipate in political actions called
for by the party.
Elsewhere in free Europe
there are only traces of Com-
munist representation in election
results. In the United Kingdom
the Communists have lost all
seats in Parliament, have been
excluded from Labor-party
affiliation and have consistently
failed to win local-government
elections.
In the June, 1953, elections in
Iceland the Communists suffered
their first loss in popular support
since the party was founded in
1930. Communist representation
in the Parliament dropped from
nine seats in 1949 to seven in
1953, and the party’s popular
vote dropped by 3.5 per cent.
In Denmark, since the 1945
post-war peak of Communist
strength, the party has lost more
than 60 per cent, of its voting-
strength. In Norway, Commun-
ist voting-strength declined from
11.9 per cent, in 1945 to 5.1 per
cent, in 1953. Party-membership
has declined from 40,000 at the
end of the war to about 7000.
The Communist party lost
three of its eight seats in the
Lower House and received only
4.4 per cent, of the total vote in
the Swedish Parliamentary elec-
tions of September, 1952. Its
electoral position now is com-
parable to that in 1940, when it
secured only 3.5 per cent, of the
total vote.
In Switzerland the Commun-
ist party dropped from 50,000 to
about 30,000 voters in the last
five years, with the October,
1951, elections yielding it only
four per cent, of the popular
vote.
The Communists have no
legislative seats in the Federal
Republic of Germany, and they
have been unable to gain wide-
spread support in Austria, where
they received 5.2 per cent, of the
popular vote in February, 1953.
In the June, 1952, elections in
the Netherlands the Communist
party received 6.1 per cent, of
the popular vote, its lowest level
since 1937.
In the national elections of
June, 1950, in Belgium the Com-
munist party’s Parliamentary
representation and percentage of
total vote fell to its lowest level
since 1932. The Communist-
party figure of 12.6 per cent, for
1944 dropped to 4.7 in 1950.
The decline of Communist
influence in Luxembourg was
reflected in the communal elec-
tions of October, 1951, when the
Communists lost 12 of the 23
seats which they had held since
1945.
The Communist party is
banped in Greece, Turkey, Por-
tugal and Spain, and there is no
Communist party in Ireland.
Russia's Wool-buying
Noting that the Russian boy-
cott of the Australian wool-
sales (a development of the
Petrov affair) has had a negligible
effect on prices, London
“Financial Times” points out
that whenever competition from
any one source has eased in
recent months, new demand has
been forthcoming to steady the
level of prices again.
“The fundamental factors
affecting wool prices,” it says,
“are these: Without a free flow
of wool from the South Ameri-
can countries, available world
supply is a little below demand.
And though both the Argentine
and Uruguay have been dispos-
ing of their stocks more freely,
these are still moving relatively
slowly.
“In any case, the Russian
announcement has come too late
in the season to exercise even a
psychological influence on mar-
kets. The wool trade is mainly
concerned at this time of the
year to obtain the supplies it
needs before the wool season
closes.
“So far this season Russia has
bought about 6 per cent, of Aus-
tralia’s production and about
3 per cent, of New Zealand’s
supplies. Fundamentally wool
prices depend on the U.K., Wes-
tern Europe and Japan, which
have bought about 90 per cent,
of the wool sold in Common-
wealth markets this year.
“The effect of Russia’s pur-
chases has, in fact, been dis-
proportionate to their size be-
cause of the narrow balance be-
tween supplies and demand.
Their ending this season has,
however, not only to be seen in
that light. There is a fairly
strong probability that the
Russian buying-programme in
Australia this season was already
completed and that the present
‘boycott’ is merely a gesture.
“If this is so, the question
remains whether Russia will ad-
here to her present attitude next
season. If she does it would be
wrong to assume that she would
transfer all her buying else-
where. South Africa, for
instance, does not provide an
alternative to Australian wool.
Nor, in fact, is either Argentine
or Uruguayan wool an exact
equivalent to Australian wool,
though it is a nearer one.
“But what may well happen
is that other Iron Curtain coun-
tries may buy for Russia in the
Australian market.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Telegraph Rates
The Telegraph Branch of the P.M.G.’s
Department is suffering from the disease
of high costs and falling business, apd the
trouble is not hard to find. It lies in the
fact that the Engineers’ Branch, whose
interest is machines, not telegrams, has
gradually assumed control and gone on
a teletype spree.
There are 175 teletypes in Sydney oper-
ating-room and 142 technicians to look
after them, or nearly one man to a
machine. Average a technician’s wages
at £9OO a year, then consider teletype
upkeep, and you can see why telegraph
charges have gone so high that telegrams
are going out of fashion.
Every city teletype is linked with an-
other at the far end of the wire, each
with a mechanic to fettle it and an opera-
tor to work it, and this needless expendi-
ture is going on in every capital city and
every town above one-pub standards in
the Commonwealth. Because of the ever-
increasing charges, which result directly
from increasing costs, there isn’t enough
traffic to keep them busy. And, because
of telephone and rapid air-communica-
tion, it is unlikely that there ever will
be. Yet, as the telegraph traffic drops,
costly facilities increase.
After 40 years in telegraphy I believe
that, under Australian conditions of pole-
borne lines, no better system of telegraphy
than the hand-worked duplex was ever
devised. I worked in Sydney operating- v
room in 1913, in which year the Com-
monwealth telegram figures reached
13,343,000. Sydney’s share of that total
was handled by a staff of 136 telegraphists
on 39 duplexes, plus the suburban cir-
cuits. These duplexes were installed in
the ’eighties, at a cost of £l3 10s. each.
Telegraphists attended to the balancing of
the lines, and duplex upkeep was nil.
There wasn’t a technician on the staff.
Then, telegrams cost 6d. within a radius
of 15 miles, 9d. all over the State, while
Is. carried a telegram from anywhere to
anywhere all over the Commonwealth.
The limit without extra charge was 16
words in each division, not 12 as today.
And at those cheap rates the branch
showed a profit.
Now consider the staff which handled
Sydney’s share of the 1953-54 total of
23,400,000 messages: 420 telegraphists,
142 mechanics, and approximately
£195,000 in touchy and comparatively
short-lived machinery. There you have
the reason why it costs 2s. 3d. to send a
telegram to a neighboring suburb, and
why the branch runs at a loss.
All allegedly high-speed machine
systems —the doubtful Murray Multiplex,
since scrapped ; the Creed system, which
scrapped itself; and now the teletype-
have hastened the end of telegraphy.
Obviously, the teletype is now pricing
itself out of a job.
And yet, at a cost of £500,000, the tele-
graph engineers propose to import the
American Tress system. It does away with
telegraphists, but necessitates the services
of a standing-army of mechanics,
America’s 161,000,000 keep it busy, but,
following increased rates to pay for it,
Australia’s 9,000,000 wouldn’t even keep
it interested. —F. T. I. (N.S.W.).
Car-stealing
I’ve just seen a demonstration of how
car-thieves operate. A car of a popular
make had the ignition-key removed and
the doors locked. Two men then went
up to it, one at the front and the other
at the rear. At a given signal, both jumped
with all their weight on the fenders. At
the third try the doors flew open.
After the doors had been relocked, one
man took a stiff piece of thin wire with
a hook on the end and inserted it above
the front “no-draught” window through
the rubber weather-strip. Watching
through the glass, he was able to guide it
down to the catch. A single jerk on the
wire undid the fastening, the window was
pushed open on its pivot and the rest
was easy. The ignition? A sixpence in
the right place overcomes the absence of
the key.
Obviously, the designers of that car-
body hadn’t given much thought to theft-
prevention. Yet there are two places
where a lock of the Yale type will render
a car undrivable without a great deal of
dismantling and re-assembly by a skilled
mechanic.
The first is on the gear-box. The 1926-
model Dodge had such a gearbox-lock
and the gear-lever could be broken off
by people trying to steal the car without
having any effect on the locking device.
The other place for a lock is on the
steering-column, rendering it impossible
to drive the car.
It’s odd that the Automobile Associa-
tion hasn’t taken up the matter with the
car-manufacturers. As things are now,
one of our most popular makes can be
had for the taking by anyone who knows
a couple of simple tricks. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Siege-warfare
The long siege of Dien Bien Phu by the
Vietminh Communists highlights the fact
that sieges (of cities and towns) are
rare in modern warfare —not altogether
surprising in a day of large-scale air-
bombardment (despite Hiroshima and
Nagasaki, we are still living in a pre-
atomic-war era). After aerial and fifth-
column “softening-up,” towns and cities
today usually fall quickly, without actual
siege.
In Korea not one township was besieged
by either side. In the two World Wars
few cities or towns were invested. What
siege-warfare there was —at least in World
War I and Korea —took place in the
trenches; that may be said to hold good
for Tobruk also.
On the Russian front in World War II
there were sieges of several cities. Not
so much Stalingrad, where the Germans
were able to plunge straight into the city,
but were therein resisted. The classic
“Show us the menu! ”
siege 0 f mo dern times is that of Lenin-
gradj w hi c h the Germans besieged from
August 21, 1941, till they were driven off
on j an uary 18, 1943. General von Leeb
used outs ide Leningrad an army of
300,000 men, with, among other equip-
ment> joOO tanks and 1000 front-line air-
craft ’ Before winning through, the city’s
de fonders had to cope also with the loss
0 £ fo e j r ma i n power-supplies, near-famine
conditions, and the coldest winter (1941-
42) for centuries.
In the Franco-Prussian war, Paris was
blockaded for three months, surrender-
ing in j ami ary, 1871. Three months may
not seem very long, but in that time there
were scenes in the beleaguered city of
indescribable horror and suffering.
Despite being £
World War I and a £U L , jk
War 11, Pans went through noth g
that siege in either of the greater str gg .
Through history there have been sieges
innumerable, marly now legendary Ihe
most famous of all—perhaps the first or
all—is that of Troy itself. And, as with
Troy, few sieges have had happy-endmgs
for the besieged.
There are Rome’s besieging of Carth-
age (146 8.C.), with its end the complete
destruction of the once-proud, utterly-
ruthless city of Dido; Rome in turn being
locked-up more than once ; the siege of
Constantinople by the Turks (1453), sig-
nailing the demise of the Western Roman
Empire—one of the world’s most remark-
able fights by a small garrison against
overwhelming numbers; and (a couple of
instances of cities successfully holding
out) the siege of Vienna in 1529 by
Suleiman the Magnificent when Turkish
power was at its zenith, and that of
Leyden (Holland) in William the Silent’s
revolt against Spain, relieved in 1574 by
William’s cutting of the dykes and the
creation of a small inland sea.
Last century there were the famous
sieges of Sevastopol in the Crimea, Luck-
now by the Indians during the Mutiny,
and Mafeking in the Boer War. At Sevas-
topol the British besiegers probably sut-
fered as much as the besieged when they,
in turn, became besieged by a relieving
Russian army.
There is something enthralling about a
city or town, great or small, holding out
as long as possible against a powerful
attacking force, while itself becoming
progressively weaker, with hardships and
sufferings ever more unbearable.
The story of Dien Bien Phu is thus en-
thralling, even if considered apart from
its historical role in the war against Com-
munism.—Maros (W.A.).
Professors and Doctors
In my youth the title of “doctor” (B.
19/5/*54) was used, correctly, to describe
doctors of medicine, but it was applied
also —incorrectly, as it still is today—to
bachelors and licentiates in that subject.
Outside the medical profession, the few
doctors one met were teachers with pro-
fessorial aspirations. In fact, before
World War I the title of “doctor” could
be a handicap in technical occupations, as
it suggested mere book-learning.
Between the two World Wars, how-
ever, scientific industry in Britain was
flooded with graduates of Continental
universities who obtained their doctor-
ates as a matter of routine, and British
universities were forced to introduce an
easily-acquired doctorate which would
allow their graduates to compete for jobs
with the titled foreign invasion.
The same fever has now reached Aus-
tralia, whose development owes so much
to the very competent specialists and prac-
tical scientists who were, nearly all, the
untitled graduates of technical schools.
In the very departments which they
raised to such a high level it is almost
impossible today for such men to reach
the upper rungs, while a “doctor,” pos-
sessing little but his title, climbs easily
to the top. — Abdul Assiz (N.S.W.).
Uncle Sam’s China Sell-out
The report of the U.S. Senate Judiciary
Committee on the Institute of Pacific
Relations, issued a year or so back, is one
of the most startling revelations ever
published. One of the conclusions of
the committee’s report was that: “During
the period 1945-49 persons associated
with the I.P.R. were instrumental in keep-
ing United States policy on a course fav-
orable to Communist objectives in China.”
The report suggests that U.S. policy
towards China was calculated to assist
the Communists before 1945. It dis-
closes that former Vice-President Wallace,
in his testimony before the com-
mittee investigating the Wallace mis-
sion to China in 1944, declared
that while in China he sent a cable
to the President in which he reported:
(1) That Chiang Kai-shek did not have
the intelligence to run post-war China;
(2) that Chiang was imbued with prejudice
against the Communists; (3) that there
should be a united front of Communists
and Nationalists; (4) that he urged on
Chiang the necessity of coming to terms
with the Soviet Union.
John P. Davies, who was political
adviser at General StilwelTs headquarters
in China in 1944, advised the General
thus: “.... we must fully understand
that, by reason of our recognition of the
Chiang Kai-shek Government as now
constituted, we are committed to a
steadily-decaying regime, and severely
restricted in working out military and
political co-operation with the Chinese
Communists,”
The report, in dealing with the 1945-49
period, shows conclusively that there was
a strange influence on United States’
foreign policy towards China. Admiral
Cooke, who was in charge of U.S. naval
forces in China in 1946, told the Senate
Judiciary Committee that General Mar-
shall said to him during a conversation
that “the U.S. had armed the Chinese
Nationalists, but then was disarming
them.” Professor William McGovern,
who went to China in 1947 as a consult-
ant to the Congressional Committee on
Foreign Affairs, informed the Judiciary
Committee that General Lucas, head of
the U.S. Army mission in China, had told
him that the Army mission was not
allowed to give any effective aid or tactical
assistance to the Chinese in their fight
against the Communists.
In the summer of 1946 U.S. military
assistance to Chinese Nationalists stopped.
The pleas of Madame Chiang Kai-shek in
Washington fell on unsympathetic ears.
Even supplies and equipment, paid for by
the Chinese and ready to go in ships from
American ports, were halted. In 1948
the embargo was lifted, but, as General
Chennault told the Judiciary Committee,
“the war material did not arrive in time
to aid the Chinese Nationalists in the
field.”
The staggering volte-face by the United
States in aiding Chinese Nationalists is
grimly borne out by these findings of the
Judiciary Committee: (1) On November
16, 1949, Secretary of State Dean
Acheson protested against Nationalists
on Formosa firing on the Flying Cloud,
an American vessel taking supplies to the
Communists; (2) On January 5, 1950,
President Truman announced that the
United States had no intention of provid-
ing military aid to the Nationalists on
Formosa and that Formosa should be
returned to “China” in accordance with
the Cairo agreement. —D. J. K, (Q.).
Canberra and New Australians
Having taken “Karrimba’s” advice
(B. 21/4/’54) and read River slake again, I
have found no reason to alter my opinion
that camps and hostels are poor places
in which to bring-up migrants.
In fact, I noted a passage where one
of Hungerford’s characters stressed that
very point. On page 150, Carmichaels
says: “America’s migrants didn’t waste
their time in dumps like this they got
out on to the land and into the factories
and the forests and worked.”
There are many instances, too, that
show it was Hungerford’s opinion (not
necessarily mine) that “life was grim for
migrants throughout the Commonwealth.”
On page 8 the hostel-manager says:
“What started with Calwell as a master-
plan ends up in places like this in a
schmozzle. Every hostel-manager, every
assistant-manager, the blokes in the offices,
the chefs and the stove-cooks and even
the blasted kitchenmen have a hand in
it.”
In fact, it was passages like this that
strengthened my opinion that Hungerford
presents far too pessimistic a view of the
condition of our immigration scheme.
I know, for instance, that Australians
similar to BeUairs exist. I have met them.
But I have never known one quite so
brutal. I know, on the other hand, of
many more who do not “regard [the New
Aussies] with suspicion and even with
blind hatred.”
Nor can I agree with Carmichaels when
he is made to say (on page 150): “I
don’t make prophecies as a rule, but I
bet that ninety per cent, of these blokes
go back to Europe as soon as their con-
tracts are finished.”
We have said good-bye to quite a num-
ber who have decided for one reason or
another to return to the Old World. But
I have also met quite a number who, con-
tracts completed, are now pegging them-
selves a claim in Australia.
It is true that you will find our streets
and beaches, our theatres and parks,
liberally besprinkled with non-British
migrants, but you will find them also in
the Pilbara district of north-west Aus-
tralia, in the mines of the Territory, on
the fields of western Queensland, in tim-
ber-mills in south-west Australia, and on
farms in the south-east —from Yampi
Sound to Lord Howe Island, from the
Leeuwin to Cape York.
These now go voluntarily to those
places where, under the contract system,
others were previously sent, thus justify-
ing the whole imaginative conception and
proving wrong the gloomy predictions
of Hungerford’s characters. —L. R. M.
(W.A.).


Between
Ourselves
D
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
ATLANTIC
-HASH-*
STOP-WEAR
v. SERVICE >
/
J
□
K
0
r\
/L 111
%
yr/A
m
99
ikippy IfUifaiincj
. starts with your
Atlantic Retailer
Modern engineering can give you the best of cars, but you
alone can make it yield years of trouble-free service.
Start right. Link up with your Atlantic Retailer for complete
car-care, personalised service, and experienced guidance.
His skill is backed by spark-eager Atlantic Flash Extra (now
pre-fortified with Paradyne (J 54) to banish carbon and to
tonic upper cylinders) and by pure paraffin-base Atlantic Motor
Oil, always on its metal.
Happy motoring starts at your Atlantic Retailer and it
thrives there. Swing over to-morrow!
ATLANTIC
AP.2-54
can manage. If I do a bit my-
self we needn’t bother to chase
another man.”
The manager shrugged. “That’s
up to you. But there’s no need
for you to go on the tools. We
don’t pay you for that, and we
don’t expect you to do it. But
if you want to, that’s your
pigeon. As long as you don’t
slip-up on your inspections.”
Lake smiled. “You can leave
that to me, sir.”
“Right. Then you’d better
show Studley round ... You
married, Studley?”
“Yes. The wife and kids are
waiting in Sydney.”
“Ah. Well, you’d better get
them up. We’ll have to fix up a
place for you . . . That hut of
Bolton’s, Lake; could ybu get
that into shape for Studley?”
“Oh, yes, it’s pretty right
now.”
“Good. Oh, another thing,
Studley. Er, I don’t know how
you’re fixed, but if you need it
for fares you can get an advance
on your pay.”
“Oh, that’s jolly decent of
you. Thanks.”
The manager waved his hand.
“That’s O.K, You’ll earn it.”
He grinned. “I hope.”
the way to Studley’s hut
Lake took a roundabout
route in order to point out the
landmarks. Studley heard him
talking, but he took in scarcely
a word. His mind was in a
turmoil. He kept seeing the
manager’s face. A decent bloke,
the manager. And right now he
was probably despising him,
Studley. He wouldn’t be where
he was if he wasn’t shrewd
enough to spot a sham.
Studlfey’s mind shied away
from the word; but, yes, that’s
what he was, a sham; and the
manager knew it. A carpenter
without his tools —it was laugh-
able . . . Yes, a sham. That’s
your pigeon, the manager said
to Lake; and he meant, not
what he said —that Lake needn’t
go on the tools —but what he
implied: that if Lake was mug
enough to carry a passenger,
well, that was his pigeon. He’d
wonder why Lake was doing it.
A favor? A bribe? Studley’s
face burned at the thought. He
realised that Lake was repeating
something.
“.... be back in about half
an hour. You have a look over
the hut, see what needs doing to
it. Got a pencil and paper?
Make a note of any material
we’ll want and I’ll dig it up to-
morrow. Well, see you later.”
Studley looked over the hut
listlessly. Seemed 0.K.; needed
a clean. Normally he’d have
taken off his coat and started
on it. But he didn’t feel like it
now. Queer, he was usually so
fussy. Not too fussy about tak-
ing a job under false pretences,
though. False pretences, yes,
that’s what it amounted to. And
he was the one who was so criti-
“No Water , boss—tell by hiccups."
cal of anyone who tried to bluff
his way through instead of
taking pains to do an honest job.
Studley breathed quickly. He
felt as though something was
constricting his chest; he longed
to break free of the weight of
unspoken lies that was suffocat-
ing him. He wanted to square
himself with the manager. Well,
what was stopping him? Only
that he’d be chasing a job again.
Feverishly scanning papers, with
a sick feeling in the stomach that
spoilt breakfast; racing after a
job to find a score of others
already there, glaring at new-
comers who made one more to
compete with; the look on his
wife’s face as she tried to hide
her disappointment when he
returned jobless . . . yes, it
wasn’t a pleasant thought.
Much easier to say nothing,
take the job, and work hard to
make himself proficient at it.
Yes, he could do that; being a
tradesman, it wouldn’t take him
long. And then he could work
extra hard to make up for the
first few weeks .., Ah, that was
just covering-up, making ex-
cuses for a wrong action. For
it was wrong; at least he could
see that. That’s what was
{Continued on page 34)
THE SERVANTS ARE
GONE
Servants? The-servants are gone,
and farce it is to hear
you call so loud for ghosts,
climb up, old man, and mend
your roof with your two hands,
your body’s weight, now light
as feathers and bones of birds
shall cause no inconvenience
to corroded slopes of iron;
the ladder may shake and
tremble,
your knees crack loud and the
iron
creak as you crawl, but climb
with caution, the spider knows
how;
and successful ascent of the roof
shall result in the revelation
of a city that once was the beach
for your grandmother’s historic
landing
when in bonnet and boots she
stepped
from her ship to the golden sands
with her chests and her servants,
with Mary from Dublin
and McCulloch from Dumfries;
climb up, climb up and mend
the roof yourself, old man—
her prayers and calls were
answered—
but your calling and praying for
ghosts
is squander of remaining minutes.
N.Z.
HELEN SHAW.


LYSAGHTS
4 -
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting arid Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
I"""*’*"' ■ -
r -v , , - iA . : i
■JI y •*• ''jv v *
V; .. , /- x.
«
■
v
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTIN G, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Ply. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Ft. Road, Five Dock
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SCHOOL OF DISCUSSION
AT Wollongbar Experiment
Farm, on the N.S.W.
North Coast, an animal-
husbandry school for farmers
has aroused a deal of local in-
terest. As a thoughtful leader
in Lismore “Northern Star” put
it, much of the value of the
school is to be found in pro-
vocative discussion rather than
in addresses by experts that did
no more than confirm more-or-
less accepted views.
A case in point was an
address by L. B. Paltridge, chief
research officer of the C.5.1.R.0.
in Brisbane, on pastures, in
which he said he was “not con-
vinced” of the overall advant-
ages of rotational-grazing. He
qualified this statement by say-
ing he had no experience of the
system with dairy-cows ; but, the
advantages of rotational-grazing
having been so firmly preached
of late years, and New Zealand
experience being so often
quoted —as far afield as in
England, Germany and the
United States —the remark was
bound to excite a lively re-
action.
‘ This heretical opinion, how-
ever, was documented. South-
east Queensland, Paltridge
pointed out, had an excess of
lush feed during the wet sum-
mer ; sufficient to carry a greater
number of cattle under a system
of rotational-grazing. But there
would be a shortage of feed in
winter, when the native grasses
didn’t grow.
True, the quality of the
pasture would be helped by
rotational-grazing since the
younger regrowth would be
more nutritious, and the grow-
ing-season would be extended.
But, eventually, and particularly
during the late winter and early
summer, there would be a short-
age of feed and animals would
starve.
Rotational-grazing in South
Rhodesia, he said, had only re-
sulted in a very small increase in
carrying-capacity (from one
beast to 16 acres to one beast
to 12 acres); and there were no
worth-while changes in the live-
weight gains and losses from
month to month. In another
instance, near Canberra, a uni-
form pasture of phalaris, sub-
terranean-clover and lucerne
was divided into a large number
of paddocks, all of equal size,
and each carrying two sheep.
Some of the paddocks' were
again subdivided into as many
as eight sections.
After four years the only
noticeable effect was the graz-
ing-out of lucerne in the con-
tinuously-grazed paddocks; no
measurable difference in the
sheep, whether continuously*
grazed or rotationally-grazed on
anything from two to eight sub-
divisions.
With rotational-grazing it was
necessary to change the order
of grazing of the paddocks;
“However, in any one season,
what is gained or lost in one
particular paddock will be re-
flected by a corresponding loss
or gain in the other paddocks.”
In Kenya it had been shown
that paddocks spelled during
one period of the year invari-
ably had a much better type of
pasture. Suggestions were that,
in such a case, each of the five
paddocks should be spelled dur-
ing this critical period in five
successive years. But, in effect,
this meant that during any one
year one paddock would be im-
proved and the other four pro-
portionately damaged.
Why not spell them all dur-
ing the critical period—even if
this meant growing a separate
crop to carry stock over the
difficult time?
On the other hand, in south-
east Queensland, addition of a
“relatively small amount” of
lucerne to Rhodes-grass pasture
had increased cattle weight-
gains during the summer from
701 b. on Rhodes-grass alone to
1701 b. on a mixture of grass and
lucerne. Also, yield of
Rhodes-grass in the mixture was
greater than that in a pure stand
of grass. Additional supple-
mentary feed (in pasture)
worked two ways: more pro-
tein, and increased animals’
capacity to eat Rhodes-grass in
winter. This method raised
some problems of management
and, in beef-cattle country, “a
fair expenditure.” Under-graz-
ing tended to produce a pure
stand of Rhodes-grass; over-
grazing a pure 1 stand of lucerne.
Another form of management
C.5.1.R.0. were experimenting
in was the growing of lucerne
and native pasture in adjacent
paddocks, with stock allowed
free access to each.
S. R. Ballard gave the other
side of the picture (so far as
rotational-grazing is concerned)
with some New Zealand figures.
In a recent experiment there,
he said, sets of twin calves,
separated and grazed under the
two systems, finished at differ-
ent weights ; those grazed under
the rotational system being an
average of 801 b. heavier than
the others at the beginning
of winter. Calves on open
range had to be treated for
worms; others didn’t need
treatment. In two years rotated
animals were 2001 b. heavier
than the others; butterfat tests
showed that these (original)
rotated calves produced an
average 2501 b, against an
average 1801 b. by their graze-as-
you-like sisters.
These figures, said Mr. Ball-
ard, answered Mr. Paltridge’s
criticism. Perhaps they do. But
that is beside the point: the
value of the discussion was not
only in the matter brought out,
but in the fostering of a
critical spirit. In agricultural
science, as in all science, there is
a tendency, once a new idea has
been accepted, for it to harden
into dogma ; and for converts to
be a little inclined to ram their
opinions down the other bloke’s
neck.
A few of other subjects dis-
cussed : A proposed artificial-
insemination station at Wol-
longbar (dependent on farmers’
reactions to the proposal);
earlier calving; pasture-renova-
tion ; pig-breeding ' and a
number of other subjects, of
some range and complexity.
Taken all round, the Wol-
longbar school for farmers
seems.an excellent idea. Per-
haps the idea could be extended
to short schools for farmers at
the universities.
In inland districts, with an
overworked stock-inspector re-
sponsible for large, general
problems, such as the incidence
of certifiable diseases, it is often
difficult to get an expert opinion,
in time ; a streamlined course in
diagnosis of some of the more
common stock-diseases, and
some experience of surgical
technique, would be valuable to
many men on the land. There’s
a limit to what can be learnt
from books, as anyone con-
fronted with an unfamilar
disease, or gross injury, knows.
But, in the meantime, the
sort of fruitful discussion that
came out at Wollongbar can do
a lot of good.
J. F.
Planned Lambing
“Horseless H.”: In these days
of high labor-costs, lambing
often takes too long; that is to
say, covers too long a period. In
small-mob States like Victoria
two- and three-month lambing
is common (on some Queens-
land runs, of course, two shear-
ings a year are necessary; and
the criticism doesn’t apply).
Where the practice is indulged
in it seems to be a heritage from
the days of big paddocks, big
mobs and wages at about £2 10s.
a week.
Main (specific) cause, in my
opinion, is that breeders don t
use enough rams. Again, they
don’t always get their ewes
“right.” Some men, with sur-
plus rams, won’t use more than
2i to 2 per cent, because they
reckon the ultra-masculine coves
will fight. Rams do belt each
other about a bit, of course, in
the general run of things. But
they’re a conservative crowd,
too. See a few camped
under a tree a commit-
tee of sedate old gentlemen. As
with bulls, a lot depends on
them getting used to each her,
and the emergence of a “boss”
in each group. That’s general
observation and, so far as actual
mating-percentages are con-
cerned, is by the way. But two
leading Corriedale breeders I
know (in the eastern Riverina)
have used three per cent, of rams
for years. No more fighting
than usual, they say, and all
lambs are dropped within three
weeks.
The big advantage is the sav-
ing of labor ; only one big cam-
paign—the first —against foxes
and crows; one marking.
Weaners can be offered as
a straight line —it means a lot
in the saleyard. And, another
factor, ewes can be “got right
again,” as a mob, much more
quickly; and this means better
growth of fleece.
Like most things, it’s simply
a question of management.
Photo (from “Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture Jour-
nal”) shows an attachment fitted
to a two-point-linkage tractor to
provide a three-point-linkage
system. In an article in the
“Journal” departmental officer
K. Flynn explains how a buck-
rake can be fitted to the (gener-
ally smaller) tractors with a two-
point linkage.
Antibiotics
In the light of recent discus-
sion there’s some interest in an
American summary (from lowa
College of Agriculture) based on
53 growing-fattening experiments
involving over 3000 pigs and
nine gestation-lactation experi-
ments involving 311 sows:
1. Antibiotics are not nutri-
ents ; they’re drugs.
2. Antibiotics for stimulating
growth in swine are aureomycin.
terramycin, and procaine peni-
cillin. Bacitracin in combination
with penicillin has also increased
growth-rate in some experiments.
3. They are effective in either
drylot- or pasture-feeding. How-
ever, greater growth is usually
obtained under drylot-feeding
conditions.
4. They increase growth-rate
5 p.c, to 20 p.c. from weaning to
2001 b. under average feeding
conditions.
5. They produce a maximum
growth-rate when fed to young
pigs—less increase in gains in
pigs from 1001 b, to 2001 b.
6. When antibiotic-feeding is
discontinued after pigs reach
751 b. to 1251 b., accelerated
growth-rate stops. However,
pigs on antibiotics maintain their
early-growth advantage for some
time.
7. Increased appetite is indi-
cated by 10 p.c. to 20 p.c. greater
daily consumption of feed. They
usually drink more water.
8. Antibiotic-feeding saves
about 5 p.c. of feed required
(201 b. per 1001 b. gain).
9. Antibiotic-feeding reduces
the number of runts and makes
pigs within litters about four
times more uniform in size.
Runts show a dramatic reaction.
10. Antibiotics control a high
percentage of non-specific en-
teritis.
11. Apparently healthy pigs
have failed to respond to anti-
biotic-feeding.
12. Antibiotic-feeding does not
interfere with the conception-
rate in sows.
Crosscuts
J. J. Murphy, chair-
man of directors of
Banana Growers’
Federation Co-op,, on
the recent sale of an
eight-acre banana-plan-
tation at Crabbes Creek
(N.S.W. North Coast)
for £8500: “Some people
might think that if they
have a few thousand
pounds, and want to
make their fortunes, all
they have to do is go
north not west and
sink their money in a
banana-plantation” (Lis-
more “Northern Star”).
Deducting the cost of
house and the irrigation-
equipment brought the
price for the actual plan-
tation back to £4OOO,
Murphy said ; this was
somewhere near its true value.
• • • •
Even at that (and valuation for
house and equipment is open
to doubt) it’s £5OO an acre, which
isn’t too bad. Orange (N.S.W.)
“Western Stock and Station
Journal” has recently been mak-
ing inquiries (through stock-and-
station agents) into values on the
western slopes; prices there have
risen pretty steeply—for instance,
up about £ll per acre in the
Blayney district in 12 months.
An improved property, carrying
four sheep to the acre, recently
sold for £49 an acre. It would
be easy to make more spectacu-
lar comparisons—in the far-west
and north —but that’s a compari-
son with a very good grazing
property.
m * o
A school for shearers, starting
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
Apart from further light to moderate rains north of
Townsville (N.Q.), along the southern belt of the con-
tinent and on the central and southern coasts of New South
Wales, very little rain is likely now for some time, though
there may be some variable rains in late July and early
August.
Another cold wave should start soon and last till about
July 5. In the last manifestation of the cycle this was one
of the coldest spells of the winter.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
for your home,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
FD
HYGEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage ne
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
F
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
-DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), Saunders House, 116
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build-
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PLACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
3
h e attach-
e n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY
SCYTHE
D
Write or telephone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you'.
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative
Ltd., 46 Young’ 9t., Sydney.
BW 4261. Victoria: Grazcos Co-
operative Ltd., 90 William St.,
Melbourne. MU 8551. Q’land:
Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd., 443
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
FA 2631. Tasmania: Cameron
& Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laim." 2645.
Sole Australian Agents;
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HE HAS
MOTOR
FD
. .BUT HE
WEABS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
f
The NBO-BARRBBB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BABBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3p), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Wm
Every point
guaranteed
do not exper
with
men t
imitations
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham. England
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office; Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
For quality for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“the GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TIIiLEY
products.
Reduce lamb & weaner losses!
Increase lambing percentage!
I
'mm
m
m ■ s
mmm
mmm
■'W '.j
P»iP
> -r i
>1
ill
A DRY-PASTURE PROBLEM OVERCOME:
Dry pastures need not necessarily mean heavy losses
because findings of C.5.1.R.0. research reveal that
vitamin A deficiency, which occurs under dry conditions,
is one of the main causes of losses and this deficiency
can now be corrected by drenching with High-Potency
‘VETEMUL’.
‘VETEMUL’ is an emulsion developed in recent years
and used by leading Australian poultry and livestock
owners. It supplies vitamin A in a measure equal to the
best green feed. Now a High-Potency ‘VETEMUL* is
introduced specially designed for use by sheep owners.
Because it is so highly concentrated, each dose supplies
total vitamin A requirements for 3 MONTHS. One
gallon of High-Potency ‘VETEMUL’ (£13.13.0) is sufficient
for one dose each to 220 sheep (rams, ewes or weaners)
or 320 lambs —only I/3d. each for sheep and lOd. each
for lambs.
HIGH POTENCY
il
B
ITRADE MARKI
PRODUCT OF NICHOLAS PTY. LTD.
High-Potency ‘VETEMUU
or usual station supplier.
may be obtained from your Pastoral House
Write for brochure explaining the full importance of vitamin A for rams,
ewes, lambs and weaners post free on request to V9/53
TUehofctA 'fitff* J%c/a
AGRICULTURAL & VETERINARY DIVISION
37 Swaniton St.. Melbourne. Auitnli*'
next month, on Malcolm Swain’s
property at Peak Hill (N.S.W.).
* * •
Harvesting of record peanut-
crop has been held back by rain
(“North Queensland Register”
report).
. • e •
N.S.W. North Coast peanut-
growers intend to protest to the
Federal Government on the im-
portation of peanuts into Aus-
tralia (Grafton “Daily Ex-
aminer”).
* * •
Because of lack of rain in the
Tenterfield district (N.S.W.),
graziers are facing a long and
hard winter, with stock already
losing condition (Tamworth
“Northern Daily Leader”).
f * * *
“New South Wales and Vic-
toria must expect to face occa-
sional outbreaks of pleuro-
pneumonia until Queensland
can control the disease more
adequately” (N.S.W. Minister
for Agriculture Graham; Albury
“Border Morning Mail” report).
Gundagai (N.S.W.) stock-
inspector D. W. Duncan re-
ported no pleuro, some barbers’-
pole-worm infestation, black-
disease (lack of greedfeed forc-
ing sheep to seek it in flukey
creeks) and some cases of
poisoning “of unknown origin”
after sheep had been fed oats
and molasses.
* * «
“Western Stock and Station
Journal” (Orange, N.S.W.) pre-
dicts a “tough winter.” Many
western N.S.W, districts have
had “virtually no autumn rain.”
As an example, it gives Gular-
gambone (N.S.W.), which, like
other districts, had excellent
summer rain (1307 points in
January and February), but for
the three months after mid-Feb-
ruary a mere 29 points.
* * *
An _ experienced tobacco-
grower, Jim Kerr, intends to
grow the stuff on the red-soil
lands by the Darling, near
Bourke (N.S.W.); present plans
are to make a start next August
(“Western Stock and Station
Journal”).
* ♦ 0
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has been buying quality
Poll Shorthorns for Wagga Agri-
cultural College. Not long back
the department bought T. B. C.
Walker’s Kaluga Air Raid
(junior champion for his breed
at this year’s Sydney Show),
then three cows from Frank
Simpson, of Gunnawarra, Gular-
gambone, and, the other day, at
D. G. Munro’s reduction-sale at
Merriwa —attended by buyers
from as far as Townsville (N.Q.),
Tasmania and W.A. —bought
another three cows with heifer-
calves at foot.
• • • •
Dalgety’s recently bought, for
Aitkins Bros., of Libradden, near
Geraldton (W.A.), a classy Poll
Shorthorn bull, Hilldale Collynie
53rd, in America.
♦ ♦ *
Hampshire Downs will be seen
for the first time at Sydney Sheep
Show this year. Breed is popular
in the U.S.A., but, with the ex-
ception of one stud, is fairly new
(as a registered breed) in Aus-
tralia. Ryelands (mainly from
Victoria) have one of the best
entries on record; Polwarths
have increased slightly. Dorset
Horns have more entries than
any other British breed. Border
Leicesters have dropped—pro-
bably because of drought condi-
tions in typical Border Leicester
country. Total all-breed-entries
for the show are fewer than last
year.
« * *
Stem-gall fly (imported from
Hawaii) doing well in Queens-
land south-coast districts;
acclimatised, and making inroads
on the crofton-weed pest.
* * *
Maize-growing potentialities
of the lower Richmond could
turn that area into another
“American corn-belt” (G. Carse,
pig expert, N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture),
* * *
From Inigo Jones: As a good
many inquiries are addressed to
me regarding conditions of my
forecasts, it may be as well to
make it clear that they are made
on the assumption that the com-
ing season is the result of the
recombination of about four dif-
ferent seasons, each of which
bears the same relation to a
planetary magnetic field as do
the years to be predicted. It
therefore follows that the new
season, although it resembles its
cyclical prototypes, cannot be
exactly like them; hence the
variations.
♦ • ♦
“Cocky F.”: A member of
the Faculty of Agriculture, Syd-
ney University, writing by invi-
tation in the “S. M. Herald’s”
Show supplement, put forward
the interesting suggestion that
wheat should be graded
(apparently into several classes
of baking-quality) by zones,
making wheat of poor baking-
quality “unacceptable.” What
the bulk of Australian growers
are to do with their wheat,
which is of relatively low bak-
ing-strength (because of climatic
and other conditions quite be-
yond their control), isn’t stated.
Queensland Government is
considering a scheme under
which skim-milk powder will be
used in bread (G. Coombs,
Manager Queensland Butter
Marketing Board).
♦ * ♦
“C.A.A.”: Trials with new
rabbit-poison 1080 in Geelong
district encouraging, if not spec-
tacular (sponsors, Victorian
Vermin Branch). One of the
largest properties in the district,
with a river-frontage of miles,
was chosen. More than 32,000
baits: an estimated 3000 kills.
V * *
Lismore “Northern Star” had
a photograph of a championship
rosette, presented by the Royal
Jersey Agricultural Society to
the Mullumbimby. (N.5.W..)
Agricultural Society for its show
in November ; it’s the first of its
kind outside Jersey Island.
* * *
There’s a market for Aus-
tralian day-old chicks in India,
Ceylon and other places north
(N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture report); trouble is, getting
them there. Under present con-
ditions they can’t go by passen-
ger-plane ; another difficulty is
link-up at Singapore.
♦ V *
“Marked demand” for aerial
topdressing services in the
Monaro (N.S.W.). In N.Z., of
course, it’s a big thing—about
50 companies now operating. In
1950 about 5000 tons of super,
were spread by air; last year
the tonnage was 144,800. This
season, in the Poverty Bay
(N.Z.) area alone three com-
panies will be operating, drop-
ping about 22,000 tons.
♦ * *
Sheep dying at Meekatharra
(W.A.), and a cold, dry winter
predicted.
* # ♦
Graziers’ Federal Council and
associate bodies are watching
with interest progress by the
three U.K, Farmers’ Unions in
establishing their own fatstock-
marketing corporation (“Mus-
ter” report).


INSURANCE —for your protection ——
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
. (Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
IMH
f
/-
y
2S
r
11
imi
X
■
‘ %?■ css
.-■■■■
■ : .v : ;■■:
t
1
If f
T
■
Hi
r.:
,- TC :-
ELSIE'S LYRICAL LOVE LETTER...
Even Mr. Pinchbeck (Bruce Stewart) raised an eyebrow when he read the
contents of Elsie’s love letter in this typically hilarious sequence from
“THE CADBURY SHOW.” Daisy Hemlock (Ajleen Britton) and Mr. Creep
(Frank Strain) who look on (above) are also joined by Kevin Brennan,
Wilbur Kentwell, Babs MacKinnon and Donald Cameron in this laugh-
filled half hour starring Rita Pauncefort, Australia’s favourite comedienne
in the role of Elsie every Monday night at 7.30 p.m. in
“THE CADBURY SHOW”
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2NX 2NM 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT 2CA
3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
- I
, The MACQUARIE f—^
BROADCASTING SERVICE
Established 1888
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIV sTTSi
05«I jiv AN
Frew #
' V !'6»s 6 Ri^r
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
UTTAn OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS i PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOIi situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
worrying him; it was wrong,
and he ought to make it right.
Well, there was no one to stop
him . . . half an hour. Lake said
he’d be.
The manager raised his eye-
brows when Studley walked in.
“Hullo. Something more you
want to know?”
“No, sir. Something I want
you to know.” Studley hesi-
tated, then blurted out. “I’m
not a carpenter at all. There’s
been a mistake.”
“Not a carpenter?” The
manager looked bewildered.
“What are you, then?”
“A fitter. Fitter and loco-
driver.”
“Ah ; then you saw our adver-
tisement?”
“No?”
“We advertised for a driver.
You didn’t see it?”
“No.”
“You’ve done a fair bit of
driving?”
“Quite a lot.”
“And you served your time as'
a railway-fitter, you say?”
“Yes.”
“Got your papers?”
Studley reddened. He took
out his waterproof wallet and
carefully extracted the creased
indentures.
The manager glanced quickly
through them. “Right. You
want the job?”
“Please.”
“And what’s Lake think
about it?”
“He doesn’t know. I”
Studley grimaced, then told
the whole story. The manager
grinned, and Studley suddenly
saw how young he was. He
felt years younger himself. He
grinned back.
“Right; you’d better go and
find Gallagher, the riding
ganger. Ask anyone you see —
they all know Gallagher. Bloke
like an overgrown gorilla—but
for goodness’ sake don’t let on
I said so. He’d eat me, manager
or not. Tell him I sent you for
a trial. And look, watch out you
don’t get on the wrong side of
him. It’s only fair to tell you
that your job stands or falls
with him, I take his word on
the trial. Don’t know too much ;
he hates knowalls. Let him tell
you. And don’t let him get your
goat; he’s a devil to tease. Well,
all the best.. . And don’t come
back in five minutes and tell me
“Oh, boy! It's good to be alive these fresh , snappy mornings!"
you’re not a driver but a lead-
burner or something.”
stared down at
him from piggy eyes in a
face of weathered granite.
Gorilla’s right, thought Studley.
Hands nearly to his knees.
Torso enough for two men.
Wouldn’t like to tangle with
him.
“Done any driving?”
“Yes.”
“Where?”
“England, Gold Coast.”
“H’m, Pommy, eh?”
He jerked his thumb at a loco
hitched to a rake of trucks.
“Know these old Peacocks?”
“Yes, I’ve—yes, I know
them,”
“Get up and take her.” He
motioned the driver down.
“Go an’ have a sleep, Johnno.
You look dopy enough to need
one.” The driver made off with-
out a word. Gallagher winked
at the fireman, “Know how to
fire?” he asked Studley.
“Yes.”
“Good. You get back there
next to the brake, Fred, and take
notice. You might learn some-
thing. You’ve only been firing
about twenty years.”
He guffawed; the fireman
echoed.
Studley opened the door,
picked up the shovel. He threw
in the coal—side, side, back,
front, forming a saucer-shaped
fire. Gallagher turned down his
mouth at the fireman. “Looks
like a bloody volcano, Fred.
Hope the bastard don’t blow us
up.”
Studley set the lever and
moved the regulator gradually,
trying to get the feel of it.
“When are we starting?”
Gallagher growled.
The train moved off slowly
and fairly smoothly. Studley
brought it steadily up to speed,
They ran along a mile of flat,
then round a curve Studley saw
a long steep hill.
“Wonder how the volcano’ll
go here?” Gallagher asked the
fireman.
Studley threw fine coal in the
centre of the saucer. It caught
quickly. He notched the lever,
giving a longer stroke to the
valve. The train climbed the
hill as steadily as a car in low.
They topped the rise; Studley
reset the lever, shortening the
stroke. He threw more coal in.
The train raced easily down.
Gallagher grunted. “Pull her
up on the flat.”
they stopped he ex-
plained ponderously to
Studley. “Gammon you got
men in the trucks unloading
ballast. I want you to move
along slowly till I give you the
word, then stop. Then on again,
stop, then move slowly back-
wards. And all with no jerks—
I don’t want to hear the buffers
clanging. We don’t want to
knock the fellers off their feet.
Fred can work the handbrake
for you.”
A devil whispered to Studley.
He tried to ignore it. He re-
membered the manager’s warn-
ing. The devil taunted him.
Scared? Thought you fancied
yourself as a driver. Nervous
of Gallagher?
Studley heard himself speak.
“Don’t need the brake.”
Gallagher stared. “Ho—hear
that, Fred. Don’t need the
bloody brake. We might as well
get ’em taken out... You better
watch this, if you’re thinking of
going for your ticket.”
At Gallagher’s nod Studley
started. He had the feel of the
regulator now, and they moved
oft without the smallest jerk. He
crawled along until Gallagher
nodded again, then he notched
the lever carefully to the middle
position, blocking off the valve.
He prayed there were no leaks.
The train stopped.
Gallagher nodded; they
crawled on.
“Next time, stop, wait and on
the second nod put her in re-
verse. And no jerks.”
“Right,”
Gallagher nodded; Studley
pulled the lever to middle, on
the second nod he pulled the
lever to reverse. With the
faintest of clinks from the
buffers, the engine pushed the
trucks back along the flat.
“Right; take her home.”
Studley stoked-up, and gradu-
ally opened the regulator. They
tore backwards over the flat,
rocking with speed.
“Ease her down.”
The devil in Studley grinned.
They cleared the rise ; Studley
reset the lever, but kept up the
speed. They rocketed down.
“Ease her down!” Gallagher
roared. “Ease her, or I’ll knock
your bloody head off.”
Studley’s face set. He put his
hand on the hammer-handle.
The devil danced for joy. Gal-
lagher’s eyes glinted, but be
made no move. When they
pulled in at the camp Studley
shut off, then followed Gallagher
down.
“Well, what’s the verdict?”
Gallagher scowled. “I’ll gi ve
Burton a ring. You go on up.
He can tell you when you get
there.” He grinned unpleasantly
at Studley.
STUDLEY walked slowly
back to the office, cursing
himself for a fool. Now he’d
lost both jobs. Let down the
wife and kids for the sake of his
pig-headed pride. Why hadn’t
he heeded the manager’s advice?
Or kept with Lake? Would it
have mattered so much if he’d
botched a few jobs? Yes, said
a voice inside him, it would.
Couldn’t he have been more
diplomatic with Gallagher?
Crawled? said the voice. No
need to antagonise him, though.
Ah, kill the b rather than
soft-soap him. And swing for
it? said Studley, wallowing in
his misery.
The manager looked solemnly
at Studley when he walked in.
He pointed to a chair. Studley
slumped into it.
“Well, you can start in the
morning.”
Studley sat up. “You
mean”
“Gallagher said you got
through your trial without the
slightest trouble.” Studley sank
back in the chair. He felt
empty, wrung out. He smiled
crookedly, shook his head.
“Gallagher’s wrong,” he said.
“It was touch and go.”


Recently published
SPINSTERS IN JEOPARDY
by Ngaio Marsh 13s. 6d.
LORD VANITY
by Samuel Shellabarger /Bs. 9d.
HAVE PATIENCE, DELANEY!
by Bant Singer 12s. Od.
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
FRIENDS & NEIGHBOURS
by R. G. Casey —an acute and
searching analysis by Australian
Minister for External Affairs, of
Australia’s foreign relations. The
bases of our foreign policy, and such
vital issues as the Korean War,
the Japanese Peace Treaty, the
Colombo Plan and the “White Aus-
tralia” question, are all subject to
his clear and frank scrutiny.
17/6 (post 7d.)
THE PEARL SEEKERS
by Norman Bartlett —founded
on fact and authentic research, this
fabulous story sets out the whole
bloodstained drama of the Pearling
trade. It is packed with action and
incident and through its pages storm
and swagger men of all nationalities,
pitting their cunning against each
other—and against the sea and its
peril.
20/- (post lid.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, or any other books you need— you’ll find them all at ■
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.I.
the Queensland Governor, Sir George
r wen to be an Australian Singapore ; a
ttlement in which the Jardine brothers,
Sidney Grammar boys, were under
(most constant siege from the blacks, and
3 hich beche-de-mer fishers and tortoise-
hell traders made their headquarters,
in 1868 Captain William Banner made a
fal with the warlike Kebisu of Tutu
Island (Bligh’s Warrior Island); and the
Lndsome native warriors and beautiful
ative girls worked naked thereafter fill-
L Banner’s ship with mother-of-pearl in
121 b. plates—-his first cargo was five tons
valued at £l5O a ton.
While these Straits and Coral Sea fields
were being pioneered. Western Austra-
Hans were moving up their coast to Tien-
Tsin Harbor, alias Nichol Bay, which
finally became Cossack (after a warship);
hnal X. Rortlett was fortunate enough to
and Mr. Bartlett was tortunate enough to
be present at a conversation in the
Pearlers Arms, Fremantle, m which
Suebert, the innkeeper decided to go
pearling at Tien-1 in. Once arrived, he
bought a schooner that had been blown
high and dry in a willy-willy ; but instead
of going pearling he turned the ship into
a pub, the Slap Inn, one of Australia s
most celebrated caiavanserais.
In 1877 the Queensland Government
shifted the Cape York “pearling port”
from Somerset to Thursday Island ; and
it was from Thursday Island, says Mr.
Bartlett, that most of the pioneers of
Broome, the next stage of West Austra-
lian pearling, came; Broome and Thurs-
day Island are now the centres of the
industry
There are so many side-alleys of mur-
der, rape, running-amuck, storms-at-sea,
divers’ hairbreadth escapes, etc., that Mr.
Bartlett does not come to the point, with
a chapter on pearls and shell, until page
255 ; but then he is most succinct and, it
must be confessed, a little disappointing,
It rather rubs the sheen off the pearl to
learn that the luggers no longer take
white-men “openers” to sea, to make
sure that the pearls go straight from the
oyster to the owner. Says “Uncle Mac”:
“Did you know that not one oyster in a
hundred contains a pearl, and that not one
P earl
And that was m the old days when pearls
were more plentiful than now... .Nowadays
we call ourselves shellers and have
given up the task of trying to keep track
of the pearls. Divers’ perks, officially or
unofficially; that’s what pearls are these
days. But you can bet your pearl buttons,
if they're not ersatz plastic, that we’d go
back to the old white shell-openers if
stones popped ap as often as they used to.
In 1912 Broome buyers handled
£IOO,OOO-worth of pearls; since World
War 11, an average of about £3OOO- worth
a vear Moreover-mavhp evervone but
Tear. Moreover mayoe everyone ou
the reviewer knows it pearls don t all
last, even when you do get them ; as
explained by Jim Gonzales of Darwin :
“When people say that a string of pearls
is perfectly matched they think they are
matched for size and shape. That is not
so. Any jeweller’s boy can match for size
and shape. It is mathematics. But match-
ing pearls is not a science, it is an art.
Every pearl has a lifetime. Some Ipse their
lustre in ten years, some in fifty years.
The pearl of soul, of beauty—-that lives
for ever. Consequen’, you must match so
that all the pearls in a string age at the
same rate. That is not easy. And if one
pearl changes color before the rest of the
necklace, the string is worthless.”
„,:. , „ .
Even the market for pearl-shell is
limited, to between 3500 and 4000 tons a
year-
-1 ' ’
Between the wars, because of Japanese
competition, the Australian Government
paid an average bonus of £3 a ton to pre-
serve the industry.
Apart from these points the most
absorbing things in the book are three of
the 56 excellent illustrations, photographs
of Thursday Islanders “Treacle” and lona
Asai, with the wounds in their necks
where sharks bit them when they had
their heads in the sharks’ mouths. There
are two photographs of lona Asai, of both
profiles, showing where the shark’s teeth
caught from on the right side in a line
from throat to chin; this is continued in
the photograph of his left side, in a line
from the corner of the mouth to the side
of the throat:
“When I felt his teeth go into my flesh I
put my hands round his head and squeeze
his ®y es lill he left, go.”
When you have extracted the pearl
from Mr. Bartlett’s shell, there is still a
most succulent oyster for the general
reader: tales of the Jardines, and how
on . e °f them married a South Sea Islands
princess who came visiting as a mission-
ar Y I°f Henry Chester, the second Sotner-
(Y magistrate, and his wars with the
, bllacks and vo Y a ges of vengeance upon
kanakas who mur d ere d their captains; of
tbe Gribbles, father and son, and their
struggle to bring Christianity and Chris-
tian treatment to na £ ves of the
wes t em coast; of Captain Chippindall in
the high . pooped brig ff orme rly the yacht
of the Sultan of Jol f beco 4 th /
of E . w . Streeter> of Hatton £ ar .
flen, and King Edward VII (amongothers),
and Chippindall’s finding Exmouth Gulf
too cold for his Solorese divers; of the
trouble Chippindall’s lieutenant, Haynes,
had when Akalal ran amuck at sea; of
Captain Suggitt, his four native wives and
their children on his leaking, rotten-
planked boat, the “Old Cow,” with the
windmill rigged to the mainmast to keep
the pumps working; of full champagne-
bottles used for games of ninepins on the
wharf at Cossack; of wild all-in fights on
the Ninety-mile Beach (“Eighty-mile
Beach” on the endpaper map).
Of the sprawling mixture of nationali-
ties on Thursday Island; of divers’
adventures with devil-rays, and stories of
gropers whose open mouths were as tall
as a man, and which could swallow a man
j n one gulp; of the cyclone of 1887 that
wrecked 18 luggers and drowned 140
men ; of the cyclone of 1935 that killed
another 140 men and wrecked 21 luggers;
of the Japanese treatment of Arnhem-
landers, and the Amhemlanders’ retalia-
tion in 1932, which led to the death of
. ,J ’ c ,. x
Constable McColl; of the Japanese entry
into pearl-fishing, with an assessment of
how much and how little Japanese pearl-
. w rnrmprteH with thp Tnnanpcp
nsners were connected with the Japanese
INavy:-
Actually the pearlers and poachers were
chiefly on the make. Nevertheless, Japan-
ese nava j o ffi cers undoubtedly took advan-
tage of the opportunity to take a closer
look at a badly-charted coast. In Brisbane
i ust before tbe Pacifi c War a , suave Ja Pf:
ese vlßltor stayed m a well ’ known hoteL
xhe maid, cleaning his room, upset an
attache-case which spilled out hundreds of
photographs. The girl telephoned the
Federal police and said, “I think you
sboald se £ thes « Pictures.” They were
photographs and survey-charts of Iron
Range on Cape York Peninsula, showing
possible aircraft landing-places, water-
supplies, land-routes and other military
information.... In 1942 the Japanese inva-
sion fleet steamed into the Coral Sea and
headed directly towards the Iron Range
Coast 0 f Cape York Peninsula....
The book ends With a chapter on Jap-
anese occupation of the Pacific during
w 1H w rT . „ nH fb :„ pnd< , wl th a note
World War 11, ana mis enas wim a note
on the return of Japanese divers to
Broome .
‘ . „' ,
“She’s on a Z am > the nor’-westers
grumble bitterly, “and unless the Com-
monwealth Government can make the Japs
ke ep tke i r tentative agreement they’ll soon
flood the market) undercut our prices and
ru j n one Q f our best dollar-earning indus-
tries.”
Beverley Nichols Whodunit
Evelyn Waugh’s effort at a serious
novel, Brideshead Revisited, stripped him
down to a sentimentalist; Beverley
Nichols’s effort at a detective-story, No
Man’s Street (Hutchinson), sees his bril-
liant dialogue turned suddenly awkward,
his superior touch with people turned into
a willingness-to-please, his airy acceptance
of all forms of life turned into defiant
defence of two ageing women who many
years before had fallen down The Well of
Loneliness, his adroit management of the
movement of his books turned into a
clumsy manipulation of what might have
been a brilliant detective-story gimmick.
The people are all well within his com-
pass: the victim a sadistic music-critic
who is also a blackmailer ; one of the chief
suspects a conductor with a European
reputation; another a rich opera prima
donna of former days; another the mas-
culine sister of the murdered critic; an-
other the middle-aged woman-composer
who is the masculine sister’s friend;
there are a husband and wife who are
social snobs; and there is a successful
businessman who wants to belong to
something he calls “Society”—on which
Mr. Nichols has a few words to say.
But, possibly because he wants to write
a sound, sober detective-story, none of the
people come alive; and he messes-up his
bright idea for the murder so thoroughly
that the reader is left wondering why it
was necessary.
Reviewed Briefly
Against Whom?; Phyllis Bottome
(Faber). Set in a Swiss t.b. sanatorium,
this novel’s plot is a hoary old mid-
Victorian one prettied-up with pseudo-
science to interest a 20th-century audi-
ence. Its characters are chiefly a medical
superintendent of iron principles who has
sacrificed a happy marriage with an Eng-
lish nurse because she deviated from his
code of professional ethics ; a charming
Viennese and a French woman patholo-
gist, completing the medical team ; and,
among the patients, a High Anglican
priest and a spoilt and beautiful girl
neurasthenic. The priest proves to every-
one’s satisfaction that faith still plays a
major role in recovery from sickness,
whether physical or spiritual, although
this happy result is not achieved without
all sorts of dramatic personal clashes
played against superb mountain scenery.
* * * *
To the Quayside: Louis Golding
(Hutchinson). Fifth and final novel in
Golding’s saga of Elsie Silver, the English
Jewess who, after a colorful career as a
music-hall star and cabaret idol, and mar-
riage into the Baronetcy, finally became
wife to one of Hitler’s infamous generals,
so earning the contempt of her race.
This book takes her from the horrors of
Central Europe to the Argentine, where
her deceased husband had salted away a
fortune. It remains for Elsie to find that
her failure to assuage her guilt for her
past life continues when she tries to buy
personal absolution with her money, just
as she had failed to regain her own self-
respect by her bravery in the Warsaw
Ghetto. She fights, here, any move which
might result in her return to Germany,
and when at last return is inevitable she
dies. Other characters are mostly young
Jews concerned with transferring their
people—legally if possible, illegally if
necessary—from Europe to Palestine.
Mr. Golding’s novels usually gain from
the integrity of his dogma and the interest
of their material and lose from his rather
labored style—this one is no exception.
• ♦ * »
The Gipsy in the Parlor: Margery
Sharp (Cape), Set in Devon and London
in the 1870’s, this engaging novel is less
immediately funny, perhaps, than Cluny
Brown or The Nutmeg Tree, but, as
usual in Miss Sharp’s work, there is a
fine satirical wit informing lively and
graceful writing. The Sylvester family—
prosperous farmers ruled by their splen-
did women —are seen through the eyes
of a child, a London niece who spends
her summers with them. Fanny Davis, a
Plymouth milliner, is imported into their
practical, innocent lives by the bachelor
Sylvester brother. The expected wedding
is delayed by Fanny’s mysterious “de-
cline,” the established pattern of family
relationships is gradually and subtly
altered by her scheming. How it all
works out is a victory of impeccable good
taste over an essentially melodramatic
situation.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 280
Across
I—Half the bray of a donkey para-
mour to turn turtle bowling by
a bounder. (4, 4)
s—ls employed and diverted. (6)
10— Peruvian parent comments on
awards to the heroic disable-
ments. (15)
11— British United Press balance is
the golden beetle. (9)
12— Tell tale says it halved a pippin.
MV
14—Reduces tension. (5)
15 Has the woman been in the
speakeasy? (7)
16— Plenty slots unshipped. (3)
1 ' Ran into Mussolini during
miprisonment. (7)
-o—Don is back in bed. (3, 2)
2 ~~Aspirations of the authors of “I
Never Left Home” and “The
2 Prisoner of Zenda.” (5)
J 5)0 make cat noises here in an
2d £ ndebned place. (9)
Pressing to introduce super-tennis
2 to ma . (15)
My word, this is the lead in “Life
With Father.” (6)
Enrages vapors from the braziers,
vo)
Down
1 and 2 Locks the staff of life with
the South Carolina monkey s
narrow squeaks. (11, 7)
3 Birds in the bone quarries. (7)
4 The temperamental bat I excel in
another way. (9)
6 Gas me and Macbeth, for in-
stance, before Duncan's death.
(7)
7 Clean up the Earth goddess with
a whip State of the U.S. duck egg.
(7)
8— Spanish couple overturned the
turf. (3)
9 A setback for custard-apple trees.
(4)
13 —Port laundryman finishes off his
work for juice-extractors. (4-7)
15 —Minor star may be thus measured
by the inch. (5, 4)
18— Cloth imitator to cover the walls
again. (7)
19 — One way of inspiration. (7)
20 — Here at present? No, nor at
other places either. (7)
21 — Tree set another way for see-saws.
(7)
23 Thus ancient capital is tart. (4)
24 Yours Truly has a common**
spirit. (3)
Solution to Crossword No, 279


FD
Benjamin Half's firsf
track-type fracfor
the firsf in fbe world
—opened up the era
of track-type tractor
power.
\
m
TRACKS THAT SET
THE WORLD
Fifty years ago, at Stockton, California, U.S.A,, Benjamin Holt introduced his
Caterpillar track-type tractor, the first commercially successful machine of its kind ever
built. With the track-type tractor, man had the machine he needed to build better,
safer roads, bigger, smoother airfields, railroad beds with fewer curves,
lesser grades. The wheels of transportation everywhere began to
move faster. Farmers tilled more land—--harvested greater
crops. To-day, in addition to five sizes of track-type tractors,
Caterpillar manufacture wheel-type tractors, diesel engines, motor
graders, earthmoving equipment. Fifty years of research,
engineering, metallurgy and manufacturing techniques
have been consolidated to offer users the world’s only-
complete line of earthmoving machines , Fifty
years’ experience in producing and servicing
quality equipment merits your serious investigation.
The powerful gianf of to-day
a Caferpil/ar D 8 Tractor
with an unbroken pedigree
stretching back to Holt's
machine of 1904.
I
m
rr
1
Mft
mm
' ■
on track:
1904-1954
-
advt
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT ® INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD., SYDNEY.
QLD.: HASTINGS PEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
lAS.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD.,
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD., PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ADELAIDE.
N. TERRITORY: HASTINGS DIESELS LTD.. ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA: HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, LAE.
CNS3.FPB
