

d
fd
-
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75—No. 3901
AUSTRALIA’S GEOLOGICAL PAST —PAGE 2
Wednesday, November 17, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE FAMED BELFAST UNIVERSITY: “QUEEN’S”
THE modern city of Belfast, capital of Northern Ireland, dates mainly
from the industrial prosperity of the last century, and its growth since
then has been more rapid than any other city in the British Isles. .At tne
beginning of the 19th century its population was barely 25,000, in 1901
it was 350,000 and today it is approaching 450,000 people and it has an
area of twenty-three square miles.
Another remarkable feature of Belfast is the splendid harbour, with its
great shipbuilding yards—the largest in the world. Other examples of the
commercial enterprise of the citizens of Belfast are the many factories con-
nected with the linen trade, tobacco factories, rope-works, aircraft factories
and iron foundries. Yet, in spite of all this industrial activity, the city still
retains the beauty of its natural setting beside the River Lagan and surrounded
bv wooded hills, clearly visible from the city centre. This great seaport
and industrial centre is the seat of government of Northern Ireland and it
has a cathedral and a university.
The intellectual and cultural life of Belfast steadily expanded from the
end of the 18th century. In 1845 Queen’s University was founded as one
of the constituent colleges of the old Queen s University of Ireland. Later
it had a similar relationship to the Royal University of: Ireland and it was
not until 1908 that Queen’s College was raised to University status.
An indication of the growth of the University is seen in the student
population, which amounted to 1000 in 1923 while today it has reached
the figure of 3000. The University is at present financed partly by .the
Government of Northern Ireland, partly by grants from local authorities
and partly by endowments and private benefactions.
Although of modern construction Queen’s University has an appearance
of considerable antiquity, probably due to its crenellated towers, buttresses
and Gothic windows. It is built of Belfast brick and the design is mainly
Tudor. The university has produced a considerable number of distinguished
people and has had some eminent men of learning on its stall.


Ttorn Writing
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting'/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Eadio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stolls Correspondence College
St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Svdney • 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
J gxOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
I obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
I ° ..
I "
I MY NAME
j ADDRESS
I (S.B- 2154).... AGE
I
BOOKHUNTER will save you time. Let
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, select and buy your reading matter.
Write to BOOKHUNTER indicating your
taste in books.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA WILL BE THERE
Mr. Charles Laseron is really a most
unsettling writer. In his Ancient Aus-
tralia (Angus and Robertson) a lost land
with the beautiful name of Gondwana-
land, linking Tasmania with the Antarctic
or thereabouts, is continually bobbing up
and down beneath the waves, another
lost land named Tasmantis keeps vanish-
ing off the Barrier Reef, continents of
ice come rolling from the South Pole and
squash the mountains of Tasmania,
glaciers from Australian icefields drop
masses of granite “erratics” over the
paddocks, mountains heave their
shoulders out of the plains, oceans and
freshwater lakes full of sharks or dipro-
todons flood the deserts of Centralia,
volcanoes go bang under Brisbane, the
polar ice-caps melt and “a small valley
with a little stream” becomes Sydney
Harbor ; even the solid Blue Mountains
of New South Wales melt while you look
at them:
These are capped by the horizontally
bedded Hawkesbury sandstone, with above
it the remains of the early Tertiary basalt.
Prior to the main elevation the area had
been nearly a flat plain a few hundred feet
above sea-level. Now the plateau, over
3000 feet high, looked at from a distance
still appears solid, with a perfectly even
skyline, above which are a few slightly
higher peaks composed of basalt. A view
from the air.... shows, however, that the
plateau is but a shell, and its solidity a
sham. It is not only intersected by a
labyrinth of deep gorges, but these occupy
by far the greater part of the map. The
original surface is confined to long, narrow,
sandstone ridges forming the divides
between the innumerable watercourses.
Probably over one-half of the total mass of
mountain has already disappeared, and as
sand and mud has been carried by the
streams far below away to the sea.... 11
will be a short time, geologically speaking,
before they lose the appearance of table-
lands. All that will then remain will be a
a number of rounded hills and gently flow-
ing streams meandering down the broad
flat valleys.
It is small comfort when this sort of
nonsense is going on, utterly destroying
one’s confidence in the value of real-
estate in the Blue Mountains, to reflect
that Mr. Laseron’s earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions and ice-ages, his floods and his
colossal cyclones raging over the ocean
and battering the coasts in Silurian
times were not, after all, caused by the
atomic bomb. Nor does it help to be
told that from about 200,000,000 years
ago, when the last earth-wave came from
the east and buckled the mountains about,
Australia has been “comparatively
stable.” It is a poor kind of stability
that is rapidly silting-up Sydney Harbor
at the rate of some 80 feet of mud and
sand every 10,000 years, so that the
Bridge is already practically useless, while
the ferries might as well instantly be
replaced by buses.
A geological change to which one
might really look forward with some
eagerness is the possibility of walking to
Tasmania when, if ever, it rejoins the
mainland, as it seems to have been doing,
and undoing, on and off, whenever it
thought seriously about federation, many
times in the last few billion years; and
as, so Mr. Laseron says, it is quite likely
to do again one of these fine days:
The water deriving from the melting of
the ice raised the sea-level throughout the
world by, it has been estimated, 260 feet,
flooding river valleys and submerging many
areas of low-lying country Tasmania
became an island instead of a peninsula,
many islands in the Pacific Ocean were
separated from the mainland, and Torres
Strait came into existence. A renewal of
glacial conditions, with the re-formation of
continental ice-caps, an event just as likely
to occur in the future as it did in the
past, would lead to a corresponding with-
drawal of water from the sea and the
consequent lowering of its level.
But if that did happen, Tasmania
would no doubt be groaning again under
the glaciers rolling across Gondwanaland
from the Antarctic ; and, to get a bear-
able climate, one would have to trudge
north across the land-bridge to Asia—
meeting as before, no doubt, thousands
of peculiar small animals (possibly Com-
munist Chinese) rushing into Australia
to evolve into kangaroos ... for it was
across that ancient land-bridge, if one has
read Mr. Laseron correctly, that the
ancestors of our unique fauna arrived. It
does not seem, on the whole, a particu-
larly comfortable journey ; and so per-
haps the only genuinely reassuring fact
that one can discover in Ancient Australia
is that a few bits of Australia have always
been with us, have been good dry land
as long as land has been ; with the pros-
Mr. Laseron doesn’t actu-
ally hold out so fair a promise—of stay-
ing decently put for the rest of time:
Somewhere within the Archacozoic era,
behind the veil cast by long, long aeons,
there looms the shadowy outline of a
stupendous picture—the birth of a conti-
nent.
Of the titanic events which led to this
there is no knowledge. Only in the imagina-
tion can we picture the original earth-waves
which squeezed masses of crystallised rock
above the level of the primordial ocean.
The results are visible in the remnants of
vast bastions of granite and allied rocks
which are literally the foundations of Aus-
tralia.
Two of these bastions may still be seen,
the whole of the south-western portion of
Western Australia, and another area in the
Kimberleys and other portions of northern
Australia. Paris of the eastern States may
also be remnants of other original lands
there is such an area in the vicinity ol
Broken Hill, for instance, and in the north-
west of Queensland, where lie the Mount
Isa copper-mines, and possibly part of the
Monaro tableland in N. S. Wales is another.
No doubt within these areas were once
lofty mountain-ranges, bare and stark,
reaching into the clouds, covered with snow
and ice, and with glaciers flowing down their
sides; but they have long since been worn
to their very roots. There is some evidence
also to show that part of them, particularly
in the west, has never at any time been
submerged beneath the sea. Here then are
land surfaces which are amongst the oldest
in the world and which have existed as such
almost from the dawn of geological time,
some 1,400,000,000 years ago.
Provided they last another
1,400,000,000 years, or even, say,
1,399,999,999 years, these do seem
reasonably safe places in which to buy
land ; and it is undoubtedly a proud and
happy thought that, whatever happens by
flood and fire to the rest of the world and
the rest of this continent, these bits of
Australia, even if totally uninhabitable
under glaciers, will be there at the end. . ,
Mr. Laseron, incidentally, doesn’t seem
to have told us how and when the world
will end; so perhaps it won’t.
What he does say, most interestingly,
is that the world, in a sense, may just be
beginning: that is, that the creation of
life—the first creation, which most of
us are accustomed to think of as having
been done and done-with untold billions
of years ago—may even now be continu-
ing :
It is quite probable that the first life on
this earth was something of this nature, a
microscopic, single-celled organism which
afterwards developed into plants on the
one hand and animals on the other. Whence
it was derived none can say; whether it
was directly generated from inorganic
matter, or whether it was introduced from
extra-terrestrial sources, are questions at
present beyond man’s power to answer. But,
although we do not know under what con-
ditions this first appearance of life took
place, it is conceivable that conditions
which have once occurred may recur, so
that life may have been introduced not once
but many times upon the earth. Introduc-
tion of life may even be proceeding at the
present moment.
There are many things one likes about
Ancient Australia (and nothing one dis-
likes, except the word “unfossiliferous” ;
and even that has a certain bizarre
charm, like a mouthful of broken
false-teeth); but the best thing about
and all through it is the imaginative
spirit which one sees in the above quota-
tion and which pervades the whole book:
the willingness to speculate, the allied
temperateness in controversy, the enthu-
siasm which can turn the formidable
subject of geology into a drama and a
delight. As when, for instance, prowling
among dry rocks and old bones, Mr.
Laseron lights upon the footprints of a
prehistoric shower:
In Victoria the general unrest of the
period continued Subsidence again
lowered the level of the land, but instead
of the sea a large series of freshwater lakes
and lagoons covered most of the eastern
portion of the State. In these were deposited
conglomerates, sandstones and shales....
At Bind! distinct impressions of raindrops
may be seen on the surfaces of the shale,
made no doubt by a passing shower when
the shale was merely an expanse of soft
mud. Elsewhere impressions of sun-cracks
caused by the shrinking of the drying mud
are also preserved. When so much that was
tangible has disappeared it is awe-inspiring
to contemplate this simple evidence ot sun-
shine and rain in a remote age.
It was in one of these moments when
the past kindled his imagination that Mr.
Laseron got his idea for this book. He
was standing, he says, on “the bed of the
ocean just as it was 200,000,000 years
ago”—on a rock-platform at Ulladulla,
N. S. Wales —and saw that the
nucleus for Ancient Australia: “a story
of Australia with its changing geography
and life from the beginning of geological
time to the present.” How that may funda-
mentally differ from The Face of Aus-
tralia, in which Mr. Laseron “dealt with
Australian scenery as it is now, seeking
in the past the explanation of its present
form,” is not very clear, except that one
book is meant to go clockwise and the
other widdershins; but there is ob-
viously a lot to be said about geology
and Mr. Laseron has said it without too
much overlapping and, at all times,
fascinatingly.
One is tempted to go on quoting
from Ancient Australia’s mass of infor-
mation: how the Jurassic fish came to
swim at Gulgong and the coral to grow
at Yass; how Beetle Creek in western
Queensland is so called because of the
masses of Cambrian trilobites in its
fossil-beds; how “extinct blastoids” are
to be differentiated from politicians ;
how the glaciers and volcanoes simul-
taneously enlivened the tranquil Hunter
River valley in the Middle Carboniferous
age when “the whole land was unstable,
rising and sinking, and continuously
shaken by earthquakes” ; how a glacier
carried a lump of granite weighing 25
tons and dropped it “where the Moor-
gooree to Willi amsbury road crosses the
Lyndon River” ; how we got coal and
opals, and exactly how Nature worked
to make oil for Mr. W. G. Walkley;
how the vast artesian basin was formed;
how the herbivorous dinosaur Rhastso-
saurus, who lived at Durham Downs,
Queensland, and grew to a length of 40
feet, had such an inadequate brain that
it had to develop a secondary nerve-
centre near the pelvis to control the
movements of its tail; how sand-ridges
such as those of the Simpson Desert get
compressed in the centre to solid sand-
stone ; how there was “a curious lag in
the appearance of the higher forms of life
in Australia,” which perhaps explains
why so few people read poetry ; how the
sea raced over the Nullarbor Plain, and
how “destruction and construction go on
unceasingly and eventually balance each
other in an endless cycle”: but enough,
with these few additions, has surely been
said to demonstrate that this is a book
for all Australia to read —or at least
for all that may be left of Australia by
next Wednesday.
IN MEMORY OF MILES
FRANKLIN
Sprightly as a wild filly, she kicked over
the traces,
Stella of Brindabella, a brumby but
thoroughbred;
Refused to be yarded, curbed, driven or
led:
Cleared out from Australia, sought scope
in alien places.
Intellectual in Chicago —— in Salonika a
Nightingale—
Her Brilliant Career went bung in social
work.
She, the currawong of the Monaro, in
London’s murk
Unable to warble; her wit there of no
avail . . .
This was emancipation, this a “career”;
but her dreaming
Was scented with gumleaves. Up the
Country: the story
Of Brent of Bin Bin blossomed in hoyden
scheming
To conceal her genius. She came home in
secretive glory
And died beloved. In Great Australia’s
lore
All that Swagger of her quick mind was
the fruit she bore.
VICTORIA.
P. R. STEPHENSEN.
American Novelty
The publishers call The Night of the
Hunter by Davis Grubb (Hamish
Hamilton) a “tale.... as strange and
dreadful as a traditional ballad,” a good
and true description. Like a tragic ballad
it lacks humor, but has, instead, all the
earthy qualities that lend to the simplifi-
cations of folklore an atmosphere of
ramified and universal truth.
Davis Grubb is in the tradition of such
writers of the American deep south as
Eudora Welty, Truman Capote and Car-
son McCullers —T he Night of the
Hunter has an affinity with Miss
McCullers’s The Ballad of the Sad Cafe.
Its story is filled with suspense and
violence. Its theme is the near-impos-
sibility of ordinary decent people’s recog-
nising and believing in a character dom-
inated by sheer evil and madness, and,
conversely, the difficulty, once having
recognised such a person, of accepting
motives of true goodness again. Davis
Grubb is intent on tracing the course
of infection by evil—it is some of the
most well-intentioned folk from the first
chapters who lead a lynching-party at
the end.
The devilish person is Harry Powell,
known to many of the rural dwellers
along a region of the Ohio River as
“Preacher,” an itinerant evangelist who
demonstrates his ideas of religion by the
device of tattooed fingers—those on his
right hand spell L-O-V-E and on his
left H-A-T-E. When Voices speak to
Preacher, urging him to replenish his
funds so that he can continue to spread
his gospel, he finds a suitable foolish
widow, marries her, murders her and
uses her money for his mission. He is
impotent, and to him all women repre-
sent the Whore of Babylon.
The last widow he marries is Willa
Harper, whose husband he met in jail
when he was serving a sentence for car-
stealing. Ben Harper was waiting to
be hanged for a murder committed dur-
ing a bank hold-up. Preacher knew that
Ben hid the money. Where? Ben
wouldn’t talk, but Preacher thinks his
wife may know.
In fact, as the Hunted soon discovers,
the ones who keep the heavy secret of
the hiding-place are Ben’s children —a
boy, John, and the five-year-old Pearl.
From their first meeting John is instinc-
tively aware of Preacher’s evil. He never
accepts his stepfather and remains stub-
born and opposed to the man, thus
gaining censure from many well-meaning
friends of his mother.
There are dreadful scenes between the
man and these persecuted children: the
suspense of one episode, after their
mother’s disappearance when they are
hiding in the cellar, and Pearl, unaware
of desperate danger, wants to go to
Preacher, whom she loves, is unforget-
table, But they escape in a river skiff,
just ahead of their pursuer. Preacher
standing helpless in the mud screams after
them.
And the shantyboat people ceased their
sleeping, their love-making, their singing of
old sweet tunes and harkened: hearing
something as old and dark as the things on
the river’s bed, as old as evil itself, a pulsing
ragged bawling that came down the water
to them in hideous rhythm And those
river folk fell silent, waiting for it to stop,
waiting for the flowing river night to wash
it into the darkness again and leave the
hour to the sounds a night should have:
the scritch of green frogs, the sudden leap-
ing of a fish, the squeal of a buck hare up
in the orchard before the ravening weasel’s
leap.
An old farm woman, Rachel Cooper,
“a strong tree with branches for many
birds,” takes the children to her home
and, when Preacher discovers them
there, recognises his true nature, for
“there is something wrong here It is
just like I can feel the thunder and rain in
my arches and back a whole day before
the purple thunderhead comes over the
Ohio hills from the west.”
It is Rachel Cooper who compasses
Preacher’s downfall, and it is her good-
ness that will, perhaps, redeem John from
the horror of his despoiled childhood.
A Queensland Countryside
It is an odd fact that the best and
deepest poems in David Rowbotham’s
Ploughman and Poet, published by the
Lyrebird Writers and the Commonwealth
Fund, are not the most typical.
“Dust,” “Mist” and “The Bushman’s
Girl”—
It was the day after the burning of the
scrub,
So fantastically silent it seemed
Too much for the bird’s heart or mine to
bear.
This transmutation of everything
To anonymous ash struck us echoless
And burnt an eerie vacancy in earth-
are three excellent lyrics of desolation,
clear, compact and musical: but it is not
desolation but rather its reverse— fertility
—which is the fundamental theme of
Ploughman and Poet.
Two short and profound pieces ot
thought, “Soliloquy of Nature” and
“The Ploughman,” both highly effective
in their urgent, direct speech, do indeed
(Continued on page 35)


r*
Vv
Vr
T v
ter
y
llWfy}
/ "7y
Jtfs
r
✓
-W
\v»
4wv^
d
r
u\
Vouv-
w
V
{ r A
'‘•‘l
y.
<55
1., A
vn \
13
WtA>
/ c/~ 7 fj:
r
/
u uM.
Santa arrives today
To-day’s a wonderful day for the children of Sydney ! Santa Claus arrives in his
magnificent sleigh to open the Christmas season. Bring your kiddies
in to see him on his golden throne ... sit them on his knee and let them whisper to him
their Christmas wants. Then on to see PETER PAN AND CAPTAIN HOOK.
A thrilling adventure with Wendy and Co. and the wicked pirates as told by Walt Disney.
All in animated tableau on the Second Floor.
A FREE PUPPET SHOW. "Nicky's Christmas Flight.” An unexpected trip to the moon,
and then but come and see it for yourself.
Sessions: Mondays to Friday—
A.M. 10.00, 10.15, 11.30
P.M. 12.15, 1.00, 1.45, 2.30, 3.15
Saturday A.M. 9-00, 9-45, 10.30, 11.15
«s
' .
i
m
&
Have your children sketched by Lyn Lavelle. Sketches only
take about 20 minutes and are strikingly true-to-life. No
waiting—just ring our Picture Frame Department, Ground
Floor for appointments. Portraits are only 12/6 each.
Do Your Xmas Shopping
the T.O.P.S. Way
Christmas shopping is easy the
T.O.P.S. way. Just ring 80951,
ask for T.0.P.5., and let our
courteous assistants shop for you.
Order Your Xmas
Hams Early
Don’t be disappointed! Order
your Xmas hams early. Just
ring 80951 —ask for our Grocery
Dept. and leave your order.
•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns’
I t|i) trifle
mrt*]: ■>*! V**,


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 17, 1954
Vol. 75—No, 3901
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
• -
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
NO SURRENDER
PROCEEDINGS in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment have made the Government’s stand in the
wharf dispute doubly justified. It should continue
to insist that its laws be obeyed. It has gone as far
on compromise as it can afford to go.
It is very evident that it has had to deal with
forces much wider-spread than the wharf laborers.
Speaker A. G. Cameron, in giving a ruling in the
House of Representatives on Tuesday night last
week, held that “if it were not for the existence
of Communism in this country this bill would not
be before the House.” But that has become mere
background to the real issue, which is that, as a
matter of opportunism, and heedless of the
country’s economic welfare, security and safety,
there is an element in politics which is willing to
go to any length to overthrow the elected Govern-
ment of the Commonwealth, even to the extent of
playing the game of the country’s enemies.
Dr. Evatt has given more than one exhibition
of how far he is prepared to support the Com-
munist party, both in the Petrov affair and in the
wharflaborers’ affairs. In his capacity as leader of
the “Labor” party he has latterly made it
impossible to distinguish his propaganda from
that of the Communist party. If he is not an
unofficial spokesman of that party he at least is
treading much the same path, running a sort of
three-legged race in partnership with the Com-
munist leaders, and delivering his speeches in the
same kind of phrases, infused with the same shrill-
ness, hate and scorn which distinguishes the
average pabulum of Moscow Radio and which
makes conciliation impossible.
Mr. Ward’s effort, of course, speaks for itself.
The purloined letter sent through the mails which
this hater of spies and the “police State” always
flourishes and never produces for examination, the
laudation of the Kremlin viewpoint, the smear of
Communists’ opponents in the blackest terms under
the cover of Parliamentary privilege—these are
normal features of the protagonist of the Brisbane
Line lie and the employer of “Jock” Garden, and
who in his youth proclaimed so loudly in Parlia-
ment that he would not fight for his country.
With such elements leading “Labor,” and
with the “Labor” movement honeycombed with the
kind of people who have been turning the A.C.T.U.
to the advantage of wharf-saboteurs and law-
breakers, the Government owes a special duty to
the country to see that the situation does not get
out of hand and that even if the strike collapses,
as it seems to have done, the grip of the Com-
munists on the waterfront shall be loosened.
The months that lie ahead hold little that is
hopeful. The effects of the great dock-strike which
is just over in London and which has cost the
workers and producers of British exports tens of
millions of pounds on a feeble pretext that could
have been arbitrated successfully is already hitting
the Commonwealth, and will hit it more through
the shipping dearth within the next month. The
wool-market is down. Other overseas export-
markets are facing competition for the first time
since the war—the intense competition of southern
European and Middle Eastern countries, the com-
petition of the Scandinavians; also the less visible
competition of European countries which are them-
selves filling the needs which,in the chaos of the
immediate post-war years they were compelled to
fill by importing at high prices.
At the crucial and difficult moment when these
conditions are developing a union whose policy is
openly derived from Moscow, whose leaders are
committed to the enemy side in case of war with
Russia, chose to defy the law, and the “Labor”
Opposition and the A.C.T.U.—itself originally
born of Communist parents, of whom J. S. Garden
was one—to support its defiance, particularly with
regard to the right of shipowners to nominate their
own employees.
It may be true that the shipowners are in some
matters at fault and that there are genuine griev-
ances among the poor fellows who complain (too
modestly) that their average wage is only £l6 a
week for a 31-hour week. It may be that the
Government has not been as judicious in its mea-
sures as it might be. But if that is so, certainly
neither Mr. Ward, nor Dr. Evatt, nor Mr. Albert
Monk, the Marco Polo oJ; Australian unionism who
spends as much time abroad as at home, has any
ground for throwing stones. Because they have
done nothing in the past to right the position;
certainly nothing to bring the employees and
employers together. They have merely throughout
supported and given power and authority to that
section of the industry whose leaders openly pro-
claim through their party their intention to wreck
the democratic system of government and way of
life and replace them with Asiatic totalitarianism.
Supporting the class-war, the Red unions and
the Socialists do not want any peace save that
achieved by the destrdction of existing concepts,
and necessarily with them the destruction of the
authority of the Government and of Parliament.
This was the real issue in the wharf dispute.
Mr. Menzies’s phrase, “mutiny against the law,”
sums up what Evatt and Healy, Ward and Roach
are urging. An dthe Government made the only
answer it could make, in tune with its duty, to
such a flagrant challenge to its authority and to the
constitutional methods of the country.
Mr. Menzies made the only speech which
mattered on the Government side during the debate
on the bill in Parliament, however illuminating
Sir Eric Harrison’s exposure of Dr. Evatt’s associa-
tions and the raucous impropriety of Mr. Ward’s
fulminations might be.
He laid down specifically and clearly that
when the Stevedoring Act Amendment Bill
received the Governor-General’s assent it would
become the law of the land, and the strike would
be not a strike against employers or against the
Government but against the law made by Parlia-
ment and against the authority of the people of
Australia. He said that “so long as I have the
honor to be Prime Minister, mutiny against the
law of the land is not going to succeed.”
And in living up to this resolution firmly and
unprovocatively he had the bulk of the people
of the Commonwealth solidly behind him. There
are unions which have many times the difficulties
and not a tithe of the fatted “loading” and loaf with
which the wharfies are dissatisfied. Yet they
manage to settle their difficulties through day-to-
day contact with their employers. And there is no
grievance the wharfies may have to give them the
slightest warrant to hold-up the country at gun-
point. Every man available, and more, has
abundant work and the highest average of pay and
one of the shortest working-weeks in the
Commonwealth.
These selfish saboteurs who mislead the water-
side have been shown up in their colors not merely
as the agents of a hostile country and system but
as the powerless demagogues they are when faced
by public opinion placed squarely behind a
Government which knows its mind and refuses to
yield to threats and pressure.
Australia and Asia
SINCE the signing of the Seato treaty the profes-
sional sentimentalists in this countiy have been in
full cry again, telling us and the world what Aus-
tralia should or should not do for the betterment
of Asia. Leaving aside the Communists and fellow-
travellers, whose motives are quite clear, there are
still many who peddle a line of claptrap dangerous
to the nation —the more so because they are for
the most part well-intentioned and probably do not
really know the motives which impel them. These
seem to be compounded of a mixture of Christian
desire to see conditions in backward countries
improved, a consciousness of the danger a hostile
Asia could present to Australia, a schoolmasterly
eagerness to instruct, and a queer guilt-complex
covering in a hazy way all the wrongs of Asia. The
whole approach is confused and reflects these
mixed motives.
The muddled story runs something like this:
We are a small country and we must be careful not
•to give Asia the wrong impression of our inten-
tions, lest we antagonise the Asian peoples for
ever. But, although we are small, it appears that
mighty, sprawling Asia is eagerly awaiting a lead
from us; we can by our actions set the whole tempo
for progress in Asia. We can feed Asia; we can
supply.it with technical equipment; we can teach
Asia; we can supply the know-how.
Spiritually, of course, Asians—or, at any rate,
their leaders —are far above us; their policies are
determined only by the loftiest considerations into
which no breath of materialism is allowed to
intrude. When Mr. Nehru, for example, makes an
altruistic utterance it must be accepted as coming
straight from his heart, whereas a similar state-
ment by a British, American or Australian leader
is to be regarded as insincere. *
And, of course, we must not rearm or
strengthen our defences —that would be provoca-
tive. Nor must we sign any pact which may offend
Communist China; that would give the rest of
Asia the wrong idea. Thanks to the wicked record
of our race in Asia, we must not be surprised if
Asians regard with suspicion every action of ours,
for, although their own motives are Simon-pure,
they cannot be expected to trust ours. Further,
although the new nations of Asia desire to build
themselves on democratic models and will have no
truck yvith Communism, we of the white
democracies—and especially Australia —must tread
warily or we will drive them into the arms of
Communism, because our whiteness makes our
democracy suspect and the non-whiteness of the
Chinese Communists makes their Communism less
Red than the Russian brand.
As to *our White Australia policy, that is, of
course, quite wrong because it insults all Asians.
One gets the impression from some of the publicists
that it is rather unfortunate that our ancestors ever
settled here at all, because Australia is really a
geographical continuation of Asia that somehow
happened to break adrift. We really had no right
to take it, because Nature was more-or-less holding
it in reserve to take the overflow of Asia. But now
we are here and they are not—well, it is up to us
to behave ourselves and let the Asians know we
really think they are just as good as we are; it is
merely that their progress has been retarded by
centuries of domination by our race. To make
amends for this we must allow a small quota of
Asians into the country each year. This will.show
our broadmindedness.
What is the real picture? What do we owe
to Asia and what can Asia expect from us? There
is no call at all for Australians to apologise for
being in Australia or to go around in hair-shirts to
expiate the sins, real or imaginary, of the white
man in Asia, When the First Fleet entered Port
Jackson, and for many centuries before, Australia
was here for the taking. The reason no Asian
peoples had taken it is that in their then stage of
development they were racially incapable of doing
so; and if they had taken it they were almost
certainly racially incapable of developing it. Aus-
tralia was not a very hospitable country to the early
pioneers, and apart from the coastal districts of
Nsw South Wales, Victoria and Queensland, there
is very little land which in its original state could
have supported any sizeable population by Asian
methods of agriculture—nor could those methods
have developed our wheatlands or built up a sheep-
industry comparable to our present one.
That is not to say that in the present stage of
this continent’s development millions of Asians
could not fit into the pattern, taking advantage of
what has already been done, and live more com-
fortably than they do in their homelands. But
even the most optimistic estimates of Australia’s
population-capacity don’t put the figure much
higher than is represented by Asia*! increase in one
decade. The population of India alone is increas-
ing by more than five million a year! Obviously
Asia cannot look to large-scale emigration—to
Australia or anywhere else—as a cure for popula-
tion-pressure, and responsible leaders in the new
nations there seem to realise this.
Nor, despite those who preach that we should
cut down our defence-appropriation and devote the
money to sending food to Asia, could'any appreci-
able proportion of Asia’s population be fed from
Australia. Are the parsons and publicists whose
voices tremble with emotion when they speak of
the poverty of Asia prepared to face squarely the
implications of the policy of feeding Asia? Are
they prepared to reduce their present habit of three
meals a#day to two —and to stay at that level for
the rest of their lives —in order that a few of the
millions of Asians who today count themselves
lucky to get one good meal a day may also have
two? Australia’s total exports of wheat do not
amount to more than one-tenth of the quantity
produced in India, Pakistan and China, where
wheat is a minor crop compared with rice, millet
and other grains.
Let us trade with Asia by all means, and if
any individuals or organisations wish to give food
to specific parts of the continent, let them do so.
But the idea that friendship and gratitude neces-
sarily follow gift-giving on a national basis is
wishful-thinking—otherwise America would be the
most popular country in the world today.
Asia’s salvation, like that of all countries, lies
within itself—and Asia is not a poorly endowed
continent. If primitive agriculture can support,
even meagrely, the vast populations of China,
India and the rest, then with modem equipment
and Western methods the soil should be capable
of both raising the living-standards of the present
population and looking after the increase for many
decades.
It is right that Australia should co-operate
with those Asian countries which are prepared to
co-operate with it, but there is no reason why, in
order to win friends in Asia, Australians should
bend over backwards to placate and please.
Throughout history Asians have shown that they
respect a vigorous race that is prepared to stand
up for itself. There is no reason to believe that
they will ever respect any other type.


THE MULLAH


PLAIN ENGLISH
On the Road to Ruin
“Unity will defeat Government-owner
plot to bust [Watersiders’] union,”
declared the official organ of the Com-
munist party in Sydney during the week,
as cover for the usual tirade of insult
and abuse which characterises all the
party’s campaigning.
It declared that the A.C.T.U. support
for the Waterside Workers’ stoppage
against Menzies’s attack had confirmed
Dr. Evatt’s warning to Menzies in the
House last week, when he said “By this
action you have united the whole trade-
union movement and the Labor party as
never before.” It quoted a wharfie,
supposed to be typical, as saying that
“any attempt to introduce troops or
emergency legislation now or to persist
in this iniquitous legislation is flying in
the face of the clearly expressed wishes
of the majority of Australians.”
That was published on Wednesday.
The A.C.T.U. at that stage seemed to
be tentatively at one with Communist
opinion, and so did Dr, Evatt, not to
mention Mr, Healy.
No sooner, however, had the A.C.T.U.
and “Labor” party support of the
strikers been announced than things
began to happen inside the “Labor”
movement, which was being happily
committed to paying the bill —a long one
-—in unemployment, in frozen funds and
particularly in a black Christmas. And
the outcome proved that the honeymoon
of Moscow, if not over, is nearing its
end, and that the tickets of people like
Mr. Monk also have nearly run out, and
will not be extended unless they can
adopt a more moderate policy.
Inside the “Labor” political move-
ment there was a complete turn-round in
the situation. A week before the strike
crisis developed Dr. Evatt and his fol-
lowers outwardly seemed to be in con-
trol of the situation in the A.L.P.
branches, and only delayed in ousting
their industrial-group opponents, par-
ticularly in Victoria, by the fact that it
takes time to sharpen the butchers’
knives for a bjg job.
Within a few days the man who was
expected to be the chief executioner in
N. S. Wales, Mr. Anderson, the general-
secretary, had thrown down his carver
and fled. And the Victorian and other
comrades who had been chosen to play
the role of Christmas geese in the pre-
conference drama have picked up the
knives. Instead of a large killing of
industrial-groupers in Victoria, to be
served up with Santamaria garnish, it
looks as if the industrial-groups may
well banquet off the bones of the Left-
wing and its opportunist allies in N. S.
Wales. And instead of Dr. Evatt, who
has been appearing before the Federal
Executive to charge the Victorians,
acting like a political master-butcher
cooking somebody’s goose, the tenor of
his emphasis has been on the cry that
a deliberate campaign had been waged
to depose him as leader of the Par-
liamentary “Labor” party. He “spoke
for two hours,” having been welcomed
at the Trades Hall, according to the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” which no
longer loves him, by a big crowd
including “100 striking waterside workers
who carried a placard reading ‘Wharfies.
“Good on you. Doc.” ’ ”
“Labor” must be devoutly glad that
Federal Parliament has risen 'and is
unlikely to sit again before the end of
February. The antics of its leader and
of Mr. E. J. Ward, the Parliamentary
supporters of the Communist smear
campaign against the witnesses and
others connected with the Petrov Com-
mission, have wrought havoc among
“Labor’s” -adherents throughout Aus-
tralia.
Reports which came in from almost
every “Labor” electorate during the past
few weeks have shown a slide against
the party.
The assessment of this slide at Par-
liament House last week seemed almost
fantastic; but the latest Gallup poll
confirms it by suggesting a drift in
“Labor” support of nearly eight per cent.
It is conceivable on the reports from
Queensland that if Parliament went to
the country tomorrow “Labor” would
win only a single Queensland seat.
“Labor” popularity has sunk through its
support of the Communists and the
wharf-strike to its lowest ebb since 1917.
The flies on the wall at the Hobart
Biennial Federal Conference should
have an amusing time. That is if they
are not blown off the wall in the first
five minutes.
No Decision
Cahill’s Liquor Referendum, which its
sponsors admitted wasn’t intended to
achieve anything, didn’t. On Monday
morning, with an estimated 100,000 votes
still to be counted, six-o’clock had polled
795,836 votes and ten-o’clock 786,497.
On a percentage basis the score was 50.3
and 49.7, The votes still to be counted
comprise boxes from outlyipg country
booths and absentee votes, and both sides
are claiming them in advance. As there is
no uniform trend in either the city or
the country voting any estimate of the
uncounted vote is purely conjectural, but
whichever way it goes the majority will
be so slender as to be immaterial.
This makes political inferences drawn
from the poll a trifle ridiculous. Mr. A. J.
Dalziel, for example, a supporter of
Early Closing like his chief. Dr.
Evatt —speaking as secretary of a body
styled the Committee of Australians for
Democratic Action, has warned the Cahill
Government that “about 14 electorates
held by the Government on slender
majorities gave a vote for 6 p.m. This
should be remembered by the Goverment
when reading the referendum figures.”
The implication is that every “Labor”
supporter who voted for 6 p.m. feels
so strongly on the subject as to be willing
to vote against “Labor” at the next
election if Cahill dares to legislate for
extended drinking-hours. That is pretty
poor reasoning for a man who should
be well up in the art of analysing voting
trends.
The referendum went to the people
as a non-party measure, and as far as
“Labor” was concerned the result on
Monday’s figures was fifty-fifty; over
the whole State 29 “Labor” electorates
favored continuation of six-o’clock closing
and 29 wanted a change to 10 p.m.
Opposition-leader Robson’s, invitation
to the Government to make its Liquor
Reform Bill a non-party measure is the
sanest comment on Saturday’s stalemate
vote. There is no reason at all why the
closing-time of pubs—or for that matter
the alchoholic content of beer, drinks
with meals, one-bottle licences and other
items covered in the Maxwell Report —
should be the subject of political
wrangling. Saturday’s drawn contest is
proof of that.
Whither the 1.L.0.
“In the ACT”; It appears that the
Federal Government sees some virtue un-
discernible in the heavy cost to Australia
of the International Labor Office, which
has annual palavers visited by relays of
delegates, substitute-delegates and advisers,
who show their gratitude by writing
incredibly long reports, often on subjects
of merely academic interest in this
country. It is believed the Government
considers that the flagbearers for Aus-
tralian employers and employees can
reach a more solid basis of understand-
ing and amity in the pleasant atmosphere
of Geneva or elsewhere in Europe than
they can in this country, and that foreign
travel enlightens some union bosses on
the blessings of Australia. On this
latter aspect surely Albert Monk has
been away at someone else’s expense
%
often enough, heaven knows! He has yet
to show the faintest sign of intelligent
enlightenment.
The delegates to the 37th conference
have just submitted their bulky document
to Parliament. Much of it is useless, but
there are some disturbing aspects of the
old quarrel about the credentials of
delegates from the Iron Curtain coun-
tries. This time these included Rumania’s
application for admission, the question
of voting-rights for China and Hungary,
and the allocation to committee work of
“employers’ ” representatives from
Russia and other Curtain nations. The
challenge to these “employers” was made
by 32 “free” employers’ delegates, on
the ground that with a fully nationalised
economy a Government could not
nominate persons as employer-delegates.
The debate was a bitter one, with refer-
ences to Australian transport and public
works.
The Australian employers’ representa-
tives, Mr, H. J. Hendy (delegate) and
Messrs. J. F. R. Gibson (adviser) and
K. H. Boykett (adviser), record their
regret that the vote of the Australian
Government was in favor of recognising
employers from the Iron Curtain coun-
tries, and that a compromise was agreed
to which made those “employers”
deputy-members of committees. This
decision, apparently backed from Can-
berra, was followed by the statement of
the U.S. employers’ representative that
he would recommend to his organisa-
tions and Government that the U.S.
should now cease to send employers’
delegates.
The employers from Australia were
less drastic, but the Government should
ponder their statement. They said that,
in view of the comparatively recent events
which had ended with the severance of
diplomatic relations with the Soviet, it
was difficult to understand the Aus-
tralian-Government’s vote. “If the vote
was cast,” they added, “on the plea of
universality, it was done, in our
opinion, at the cost of a far more im-
portant principle.” They said that in a
tripartite system it was fundamental that
each group should manage its own
affairs. The employers were unable to
do this while these pseudo-employers
sat-in with them to disrupt their meetings.
Britain's Color Problem
One of Britain’s lesser national problems
—lesser for the time being—got an airing
in the Commons the other week, when a
debate arose on what was to be, done
about the stream of colored people from
the West Indies pouring into England.
A year or so ago, with unemployment
rife and opportunity restricted in their
own country, West Indians discovered
that color was no bar to colonial people
settling in Britain, where work was
plentiful, and that the voyage could be
made for about £lOO sterling. More
than 10,000, mostly men and a great
many destitute when they landed, have
gone to Britain since, and the flow
continues.
They are particularly noticeable on
the fringe of the West End, in the East
End and South London. In that vast
field of bed. sits., room and b., cheap
boarding-houses, etc., which spreads
over Kensington, Fulham and Chelsea,
colored people move like flotsam on a
flooded river. Their spokesmen—includ-
ing people from East and West Africa —
stand up in Hyde Park and orate about
their rights as British citizens. Odd out-
breaks of resentment against them, while
far from serious just now, contain a
threat of serious trouble later on. White
women live with some, with or without
marriage, and the inevitable crop of
mulattos is showing up.
The British very naturally are chary of
tampering with that cherished freedom
to enter Britain which is extended to
pretty well all peoples, but this invasion
is something new. Together with mis-
cegenation, the newcomers bring their
living habits with them, and, forced to
congregate together because of racial
differences, could easily create slums and
serious problems of health.
Whatever the outcome—and it is
already a problem stretching far into the
future—the position in Britain now is a
warning to any country which wants to
keep itself white.
Antarctic Ship?
“Mugga Way”: There are probably
arguments of time and economics in
favor of the current procedure of
chartering a Danish ship, specially built
for work in the ice, to take our teams
to and from the Antarctic base at Maw-
son. This ship has been used recently,
and successfully, to take the first main
party and its equipment to the base, it is
to carry the relief party, and, in the
words of R. G. Casey, it has been
chartered “for the voyages during the
following three summer seasons.”
There is no doubt that the chartering
of the ship has proved very convenient.
But the announcement provokes some
obvious queries. The first is, what will
happen if, for material or other reason,
the vessel is not available? She is a
well-found and modern ship, but she is
going into the most treacherous waters
in the world, and all calculations must'
take into account the possibility of her
disablement or loss in some extraordinary
but not impossible circumstances. There
has been some talk of air contact
between Australia and the base at Maw-
son, but this would surely be a hazardous
expedient justified only by some
extremely urgent occasion. The second
query is more important. What are the
costs of these charters, and how do they
compare with the building of our own
Antarctic ship to the most modern design
available? Are we going to rely on the
goodwill of the owners of the Kista Dan
for ever, assuming that the ship will
always be available when we need it?
Or are we going to supplement what we
regard as an important and permanent
base with a ship owned by Australia,
and available to us at all times?
It appears that, up to and including
the 1957 season, we are to charter the
Kista Dan. There has been no announce-
ment of whether, in the meantime, Aus-
tralian shipyards are to be invited to
build a similar or even better ship to
maintain the link between the two con-
tinents. Surely we should be moving
already, in view of the growing inter-
national importance of the Antarctic and
our own not wholly accepted claims to
a large portion of that area. The estab-
lishment of a permanent base is rightly
regarded in Canberra as reinforcing our
claims, but unless we can also show that
we are not only ready but able to service
that base fully under our own steam we
will be open to legitimate criticism.
The Week of the Dove
Judging by the numerous utterances on
peace during the week the season of
loving-kindness among nations must at
last be here.
Mr. Dulles, not usually the most hope-
ful of mortals, said at his first press con-
ference for two months, following the
shooting-down of an unarmed U.S. air-
craft over northern Japan by Soviet
fighters, that he “did not believe Russia
had any idea of starting a war now,” and
that a preventive war against the Soviet
Union by the United States was out of
the question.
Comrade Malenkov, during the round
of celebrations which marks the anni-
versary of the revolution, showed himself
in “jovial mood,” according to the press,
drank numerous toasts to peace and
friendship, and, obviously referring to
the shooting-down of the American air-
craft, told the American Ambassador,
whom he “singled out for special atten-
tion,” that the United States should not
allow minor incidents to be blown up
into big issues.
He also told a Labor lord —Listowel—
“quite definitely” that he regarded peace-
ful co-existence with the capitalist coun-
tries as “a durable relationship and not
a brief interlude” —if he does he has
ceased to be a Communist. His phrase-
ology carefully, followed the delusive
Marxist-Leninist line and was couched
in the double-talk which is designed to
make Communists understand and people
who speak plain English, instead of
Communist English, misunderstand.
When he speaks of peace and friendship
he always desires it with the English or
American “p'eople,” not with Govern-
ments. The Communist theory favors
this peace with peoples but holds that
it can only be obtained through the
destruction of Western systems of
democracy.
However, Malenkov’s efforts have had
response from other quarters. President
Eisenhower said that the prospects for
an enduring peace were the brightest for
years. Mr. Churchill speculated the day
afterwards that in a few years humanity
might find itself moving along the broad,
smooth causeway of peace and plenty
instead of roaming and peering around on
the rim of hell. ,
In‘fact, the atmosphere is not unlike
t that which used to prevail at the time
of Yalta, and thoughtful observers might
be given to wondering whether some of
the Russian enthusiasm and large issues of
vodka and back-slapping at Kremhn
banquets to foreigners are not produced
(Continued on next page )
"A Shag on a Rock"
The bird in Scorfield’s “Shag on a
Rock” cartoon (B. 3/11/’54) should have
had its wings outspread.
The cormorant —shag i£ you like—
submerges for most of its hunting, dart-
ing about in the murky depths for quarry
you and I rarely sA and seldom suspect;
and if the going is good—or maybe
because it isn’t—the ravenous fowl will
often surface the head only, gulp air,
and bore down again after more.
A solid session of that and the bird
becomes pretty soggy, so, selecting a perch
in both wind and sun, it pegs itself
out to dry, keeping watch the while with
a head that can turn full-circle.
As the cartooned person has lately been
hull-down for as long as most cormorants
ever are, it’s certainly time those wings
were out in the sun.
Some regard this inelegant mud-puddler
as the curse of sportsmen; it devours
trout-fry and undoes the work of men
trained in the stocking of suitable
streams. It is argued about by scientists
and fishermen, and sometimes there’s a
great drive against it, but somehow the
gawky fowl still flourishes and feeds
where it will, though often enough it is
indeed out on a rock.
But here the allegory breaks down; for
whether you are for or agin the shag,
whether you’re protecting it or potting
at it, the bird itself remains almost com-
pletely silent.
WIPPEGONG.


by the hope that a return of a Democrat
majority in the U.S. Congress may mean
also the return of the wide-open oppor-
tunities afforded to Soviet agents in
America during the Roosevelt days.
If Malenkov and his comrades think
so they are probably wrong. Those
now in command saw Soviet armies first-
hand in Europe and have a first-class
knowledge of their methods and ethics.
Moreover, the comradely atmosphere
which is apt to develop in the Kremlin
on feast-days is somewhat clouded by
knowledge that the Communist party
is at the moment changing its line in a
direction which does not suggest that
peace lies ahead, and by most unhopeful
symptoms in the Far East.
The American Military Adviser to the
Nationalist Government in Formosa —
General Bill Chase, who is known to
many Australians —announced when the
<nerrymaking and international displays
of joviality were at their height that
“hundreds of thousands of Communist
troops are massed on the mainland
opposite the Nationalist-held islands
guarding Formosa.” And Red China con-
tinues to make it plain that it intends to
re-acquire the island and that it is a
matter of national honor to do so. It
can do it only at the cost of a world
war —and Mao must know it.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Federal Parliament adjourned for the
Christmas recess on Thursday. The Petrov
Commission also adjourned, but not for
quite such a lengthy period.
• •
Sidney Holland’s National party went
to the polls in New Zealand on Saturday
with 50 seats in a House of 80 and seems
to have come back with 44, conceding
it the “doubtful” seat Lyttleton, where
Labor has a lead of 28 with 1000 votes
to come. Nash’s Labor party picked up
the six lost seats, to bring its total to 36,
and lowered the Nat. majority all over the
Dominion. Social Credit candidates con-
tested 67 seats and won none, but their
polling—about 11 per cent.—was higher
than had been expected. This may be
due less to Social Credit than to the
inclusion in their platform of promises
to increase old-age pensions to £5 a
week, abolish the wages-tax and reduce
the price of food.
•«. •
About the only resemblance between
the campaigning in the N. S. Wales
Liquor Referendum and a political elec-
tion-campaign was that on the eve of the-
poll both sides expressed themselves
confident of winning. But the “earlies”
won the buttered teacake for the most
optimistic forecast:
Even in Broken Hill we are informed
the vote, which last time favored extended
hours, will be solidly for 6 p.m.
Broken Hill splits up into two electorates
—Sturt and Cobar, Both turned in a
majority for 10 p.m. Not that it matters
two hoots to anyone in Broken Hill
which way the vote went; the Barrier
Council, not the Government, will still
decide the trading-hours of pubs.
• ' •
“If you wait until the public is
prepared to recommend salaries for you,
you will never get any,” said Premier Cain
during the wrangle over the £66,600 bill
to raise the salaries of Victorian poli-
ticians. How well he understands the
public!
• •
It all depends on the point of view.
Communist Healy, claiming that the
watersiders had “won the first round,”
said “never before have I seen such
unity.” The strange thing about this
unity was that it was united in recom-
mending Healy to put his followers back
to work. Healy claims that his federa-
tion never intended an all-out strike, but
the Government had sought one, in order
to bring about a black Christmas.
Apparently the story is that Menzies
wanted the strike, but Healy didn’t, and
now Healy has thwarted Menzies by
calling the whole thing off.
• •
Official tact? While the heaviest
November floods for 25 years were
washing cows and horses down Victorian
creeks and rivers, sweeping crops into
the ocean and driving suburbanites out
of their houses the Board of Works was
heard announcing that a hot, dry
summer would “almost certainly mean
water-restrictions.”
• •
General Neguib, deposed as Egyptian
President and Prime Minister last
February, and restored as President in
April, has again been removed by the
Revolutionary Council.
• •
The latest rumor not without
foundation, it would seem —is that
certain sections of “Labor” are hoping
to solve their leadership difficulties by
having Dr. Evatt appointed a member
of the International Court. A prize of a
half-ripe peanut is offered for a correct
prophecy as to how the United States,
France, Russia and the Darlinghurst
branch of the Communist party would
be likely to vote on his appointment.
• •
As an outcome of Menzies’s promise
to facilitate the purchase by tenants of
houses built under the Commonwealth-
States Housing Agreement, Victoria has
introduced legislation permitting tenants
of Housing Commission homes to buy
on easy terms. Ex-servicemen will be
able to buy through the War Service
Homes department; civilians Will be
required to put up as deposit 5 per cent,
on the the first £2OOO and 10 per cent, on
the balance. Interest-rate will be 4£
per cent; term, 45 years.
One of the difficulties that has delayed
agreement on this subject was the matter
of a fair price for the homes, some of
which are several years old, others recently
erected. The formula adopted is to take
the mean of the cost-price and the
replacement-value.
• •
People critical of the pace of the Petrov
Commission, and of the evidence elicited
there, should ponder a remark of the
chairman, Mr. Justice Owen;
We have had a vast mass of evidence
over the last few months, and by slow
degrees the threads are tying into one
another.
Anyone who takes the trouble to study
all the evidence must have the same feel-
ing. Even professed Communists, called
as . witnesses, have expressed astonish-
ment at where some of the threads have
led.
• •
Immigration Minister Holt told the
Reps that in nine years 416,240 British
and 430,430 non-British immigrants had
arrived in Australia, Italians, Poles and
Dutch, in that order, led the non-British
in numbers, and there were nearly 10,000
Americans. In assisted passages this cost
Australia £28,227,000, but, in view of
our need for population, it was money
well spent.
• •
Subsidies to small gold-producers under
new legislation are to be on a flat rate
FASCINATED
of 30s. an ounce, as distinct from the
costs-formula applied to large producers.
In explaining the measure R. G.
Menzies’s mind possibly went back to
his Ballarat schooldays, when prospec-
tors, fossickers and one-man shows were
numerous. However, he merely said
that few fossickers kept detailed
books of accounts, so the only practicable
way of helping them was the flat-rate
subsidy.
- • •
People 'engaged in the transport of
Commonwealth explosives have been
given booklets on safety-rules, including
what Transport Minister McLeay
describes as “appropriate phrases in
lighter vein.” That description might
apply to “A railway-crossing is one of
the most serious hazards you face, and
should be the last place for you to take
a chance. If you do, it probably will be,”
But when the truck-driver has ceased
chuckling at this the grin should be wiped
off his face by the grim reminder: “An
explosive, whether a .22 cartridge or an
‘H’-bomb, is designed to destroy.”
• •
They’re talking again of converting
the Broken Hill-Port Pirie railway to
standard gauge. It is claimed that trains
could then travel from Brisbane to
Kalgoorlie without break of gauge.
That’s 2675 miles—in case anyone is
anxious to book early.
• •
In N.S.W. and Queensland road-
transport operators asked State Govern-
ment to waive or reduce road-freight
taxes because of the wharf-strike and
the consequent heavy demand for road-
trucks. Neither Government replied.
Little wonder; the strike must have
boosted their revenue from road-freight
taxes enormously.
• •
When an R.A.A.F. guard struck at a
mosquito the move caused a tommy-gun
he was carrying to go off. It was stated
that detectives would interview the guard.
Hadn’t they better interview the
mosquito?
• •
Alexis Carrel, in his Man the Unknown,
had this to say in the course of a
chapter on “Men of Science”:
Unintelligence is becoming more and
more general. Strange to say, it often
exists with advanced scientific knowledge.
Carrel wrote that 20 years ago, but one
would be pardoned for thinking it was
inspired by a study of the evidence of
scientific men at recent sessions of the
Petrov Commission.
• •
One of the sidelights of the wharf-
strike was a march by strikers to Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” office, where the
marchers invaded the premises and
demanded to see Mr. Frank Packer. A
strange sequel was an immediate cut of
-50 p.c. in the price of Mr. Packer’s
daily.
• •
In N. S. Wales local - government
authority in the real sense is fast being
whittled away through the Cahill Govern-
ment’s passion for amalgamations.
Greater Thisanthats and the introduction
of party-politics into • municipal affairs.
In the Northern Territory, now showing
signs of revival after decades of slumber,
the tendency is the other way and
apparently the Alice Springers don’t like
it. The N.T. Legislative Council has
passed a bill transferring some municipal
duties from the Administration to the
town councils at Darwin and the Alice.
This has brought a sharp protest from
the Alice Springs Progress Association,
which maintains that “local-government
would be too great a financial burden”
and that the new regime would not give
them management of their own affairs,
but would mean taking oyer expensive
propositions from the Government.
If Territorians take a lesson from what
is happening in other parts of Australia
they’ll grab what is offered them and
try to build on it.
• •
New Zealand has again rejected
prohibition of liquor-traffic. Saturday’s
poll, held simultaneously with the general
election, resulted; Continuance, 494,506 ;
State control, 120,058 ; Prohibition,
186,415.
• •
N. S. Wales Minister for Health
O’Sullivan, speaking in • the Assembly,
replies to an interjection by S. D. Dick-
son, deputy-leader of the Country party:
I represent an area that used to have
people like the deputy-leader of the Country
party in it, but we got rid of them.
Euthanasia or just plain purge?
• •
“Mugga Way”: To the observant life
in Parliament House need never be dull.
Two unrelated but entertaining incidents
occurred among the background specta-
tors in King’s Hall, in Canberra, while
General Cariappa was presenting the
Gayer-Anderson gift of Indian paintings
to the National Library. In one remote
corner Archibald Prize winner Ivor Hele
was impassively inspecting some of the
exhibits, while a couple of yards away
Eddie Ward, carrying an armful of water-
siders’ propaganda pamphlets, was pre-
senting them to selected recipients, includ-
ing Government Whip Joe Gullett.
• •
Queensland retail-price index, as
calculated by the State statistician, showed
a slight decrease for the September
quarter, continuing a tendency shown in
the June quarter.
• •
Japan has re-entered the field of
scholarships for foreign students. Thirty
students have been invited to Japan—
from Burma 3, Cambodia 1, Ceylon 1,
Formosa 2, France 2, Germany 2, India
2, Indonesia 3, Italy 1, Malaya* 1,
Pakistan 2, the Philippines 3, Thailand
2, Britain 2, U.S. 2, and Viet Nam 1.
• •
No. 77 Squadron, R.A.A.F., has
served abroad continuously for 11 years,
gaining the unofficial title of “the
squadron that has never been home.”
Men and equipment are now on the way
home, mostly in H.M.A.S. Vengeance.
Since leaving Darwin in 1943 the
squadron has served in New Guinea,
Borneo, Japan and Korea. It had a
magnificent record in Korea. Sixteen of
the squadron’s pilots were killed and 25
listed as missing, but seven of these
were repatriated after the armistice.
• •
Almost one in every four houses now
occupied in Australia has been built
since the war, the actual figure being
508,579 out of 2,225,000. Of the new
homes, one-third were built in the first
half of the post-war period, two-thirds
since; four out of every five of them
are owner-occupied. These figures and
fractions, announced by National
Development Minister Spooner, are im-
pressive, but they don’t disguise the fact
that there is still a housing-shortage.
• •
N.S.W. Government is putting through
a bill to limit damages to £2OOO in
claims against the railways for fire
damage to crops, stock and property.
This is the same Government which won’t
even consider a change in the system
whereby insurance companies are stung
for huge sums in claims for road-
accidents,
• •
“Stromlo”: During discussion of
the bill to ratify the agreement to bring
the storage-capacity of the Hume reser-
voir to a total of 2,500,000 acre-feet it
was mentioned that the Snowy Mountains
authority might put something in the hat
towards the estimated £3.2 million which
the latest works will cost. It will be some-
time, however, before the authority can
find out if it will derive any benefit from
the reservoir’s increased capacity, and it
is not likely to consider a contribution
until it knows of some additional return.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
TN a Canberra suburban shop the other
day a tall, white-haired chap agreed
to buy the last scraggy loaf of bread on
the shelf. “I’ve got to take it,” he said.
“I clean forgot to call in this morning
for it.” The woman behind the counter
grinned. “That’s the second time this
week you’ve forgotten,” she remarked.
“You must have a head like a sieve.”
“Afraid I have,” said the shopper, a
Professor Marcus Oliphant.—“Mugga
Way.” v
❖ ❖ ❖
“Blanc”: Driven from our tent by a
storm, we occupied the old school on the
far South Coast of N. S. Wales. Records
in a box showed that the school was
closed about 40 years ago. An ancient
resident proudly informing us that his
name was in the Punishment Book in the
box for kissing girls on the way home
from school, we found the book; and,
suppressing names of ‘offenders, and
restricting ourselves to Nature of Offence,
Amount of Punishment, and Instrument
Used, are able to disclose that in 1887
three girls and two boys received two
“Did they vote for a ‘ dry ’ lodge, pet ?”
stripes with a rattan rod for spitting on
each other’s slates. A boy got six for,
“Bringing lizards into school in his
pocket.” Others were dealt with for
“Reluctance to work,” “Running from
Sewing,” “Multiplication-tables,” “Long-
distance spitting compe t i t i o n,”
“Constantly out-of-step,” and “Eating
Quinces in School.” In 1901, four very
bad lads were entered every week for
“Chasing girls,” “Fighting on the way
home,” “Stealing the teacher’s melons,”
and “Riding poddy-calves.” These all
i got from four to 12 stripes with a cane.
In the local hall these four boys had
their names in gold letters on the Roll of
Honor; among them they had two
D.C.M.s and an M.M.-with-Bar. Two
had the K.I.A. cross before their names.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Zake”: Keen assessment of the
mental age of its readers by the Sydney
afternoon press, on which severe curtail-
ment has been enforced by the wharfies’
strike: the one section saved from the
whittling-knife was the comics.
* * *
“F.S.”: Well, well! The Arandas now
have an Arts Council, and the council
is inviting all and sundry to attend an
exhibition at the Athenaeum Gallery,
Melbourne, of a group of Aranda
artists comprising Albert Namatjira and
eleven others, to be opened by the Hon.
L. W. Galvin, M.L.A., Chief-Secretary
and Deputy Premier of Victoria —a State
which has practically finished-off all its
abos!
<* ❖ ❖
“She”: The late Max Afford once
struck as hard a bit of fictional bad
luck as you could imagine. In a good
mystery piece he had one of those
“sealed - room” killings, the deed
perpetrated in a broadcasting-studio
closed for rehearsal. The victim
had been rehearsing, and, someone
having had ideas about authentici|y
of action leading to authenticity
of speech, he had , had to cross
the room and listen at a keyhole,
and the murderer, outside of the door,
had prodded a very long hat-pin through.
The point mad© was that hat-pins were
so rare, then, that if someone could be
proved to own one his or her guilt
would be more or less certain. When
the book was written long hat-pins
seemed to have gone the way of the
hobble-skirt, but when it hit the sellers’
shelves, some ten years ago, the spikers
had just been restored to high fashion
and ©very gal worth her chicken-dinner
was wearing one!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Viper”; Unique spinster Christine
Jorgenson (baptised George) is contem-
plating a tour here. She thinks,
perchance, “anything Gipsy Rose Lee
can do, I can do better.” At any rate,
to the pageant of distinguished Americans
who have lately honored us she’ll provide
an elegant crown. She’s reported to be
fond of a drink called a “Bloody Mary,”
which is thought to be a “Tom Collins”
that has had itself —changed.
❖ ❖ *>
“Tuggle”; Canberra has had bottled-
milk for only a couple of weeks, but the
kids have already found a use for the
bottletops; they’re running competitions
to see who can cover the spokes of his
bicycle with them.
“Poppa”: In the second week of
Sydney “Sunday Telegraph’s ’ advertise-
ment-collecting competition, my kid had
begged or swapped 400 Daffodils;
furphies went round that police had visited
some boys’ homes and confiscated their
collection of the comics with these ads.
in them —the inference being that they
had early-birded the comics from
Sunday-morning doorsteps. I said to my
son, “I’d prepare to be disappointed. If
you've got 400 Daffodils,
bound to have 5000. It’s a pity you’re
not collecting something worth while—
if a girl with a 48in. bust loses a beauty-
competition, she’s still got a valuable
property . . His mother drove the
“And such a saving on shoe-leather, my deaf."
point home: “See? What can you do with
400 Daffodils?” Such questions are
always unfortunate in our household; the
answer is automatic and regrettable.
* ❖ ❖
“O’Johnno”: Coin-collectors are
shepherding specimens of the Australian
florin minted just before the Queen’s
visit. After the Coronation a minting was
put out on which part of the Royal title
(the two letters “F.D.,” standing for
“Defender of the Faith”) was omitted.
An outburst of protest, petitions to
Parliament, etc., caused the “graceless
florin” to be replaced by that bearing the
two letters which certain sections of the
community object to, the new coins being
put into circulation before the Royal
arrival. Apparently this was more or
less of a “token” mintage, and pot many
are to be seen. Recent florin output from
the mint shows that the “F.D.” has again
been cut out, and as the body seeking its
omission is an influential one it looks as
though we have seen the last of the old
inscription on Australian coins.
❖ *l* ❖
“Nimrod” : Time was when the keg at
a party was flanked by a cheese or a
ham or a jar or two of pickled-onions.
Went to a party the other night where,
apart from the usual chicken and
savories, there were anchovies from
Portugal, shrimps from Norway, olives
from Raly and smoked-oysters from
Japan. It took half of the Seven Seas
to produce these alleged delicacies,
whereas in the old days the produce was
local, and twice as wholesome at half
the price.
❖ ❖ *> m
“Snips”: You meet poetry in strange
places. The housemaid in a country
pub bustled in the other morning, ripped
the sheets off the bed, grabbed the wet
towel, bundled the lot together and
flung them over the staircase upon a heap.
“Want to get home,” she said. “Got a
whole line of washing out —this beautiful
morning sun. Nothing nicer than a
warm, sun-dried sheet against your
cheek.”
*t* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Officers of the First A.I.F.
who were convalescing at Cobham Hall,
Kent, towards the end of 1917, will
remember just-retired Grock, 74-year-old
King of Clowns. Cobham Hall
is the ancestral home of the Earls
of Darnley; in the music-robm —known
as the Gilt Hall, described by the Prince
Regent as the finest room in England,
with its huge white marble mantelpiece
and portrait of the Stuart Princes
above—l first saw Grock perform. It
was a cold winter’s day, snow heavy
outside ; and a large fire of logs burned
cheerfully in the big fireplace—it would
take about half a ton of wood
comfortably. Rows of chairs had been
arranged on the parquet floor, all
occupied by Australian officers and
guests of the family, while estate-
servants and others looked on from the
small organ-gallery. Grock came on the
stage, a big man, then aged about 36 and
at the height of his fame. From within
the folds of his baggy check trousers he
hauled forth a violin-case. Opening it,
he produced a violin, and from that he
produced a smaller violin, and so on
until he held in his hand the smallest
instrument I have ever seen. On that
minute instrument he proceeded to play.
His was the star turn of the afternoon.
He was a truly grotesque figure, and
to his extraordinary clothes added shoes
at least a yard long and a bald pate. His
real name Adrian Wettach, he is retiring
to his native Switzerland.
* * *
“Sackville”: You’ve never been in red
trouble with a necktie (B. 6/10/’54) until
your right arm is held up shoulder-high
in an aeroplane-splint and you are due
to go to a wedding. The wife, knowing
I could manage my attire, had dashed oft
to assist in dressing the bride. Not till
I came to the tie did I realise that I
hadn’t worn one since the wing went
into dock. Looked as though I’d have
to stay at home or else find a neighbor
to tie the knot. Then inspiration came.
Looped over a doorknob the tie was at
a height that allowed both hands to be
used. I succeeded in tying the knot. Like
a left-handed hangman I contrived to
drop the loop over my head and
manoeuvre it around the collar. With
a little co-operation from the chin, the
knot was slipped up into place, and
Cinderella went to the ball.
'
“Dicky”: The Sunburnt Country
(B. 27/10/’54) caused me a cynical smile.
It received a big build-up as being a
profile of Australia, etc., by Australian
writers, most, if not all, of whom are
earning their bread - and - butter in
England,
“Nunk”: Possibly a better interpretation
of the love of our exiled Australian
writers for their “sunburnt country"
was given by Dismal Desmond, who used
to delight listeners to early Sydney
radio-programmes with his masterpiece
“I Think of You”; especially its
conclusion:
And when I think of anything that’s been
out in the sun
I think of you, dear,
I think of you.
“Hugh Galleon”: Prize for the reddest
face this week in our classified-
advertising department shared by the
telephone-girl who took an item in a
country property ad. as “six-thousand
litters” instead of “six sows and litters,’
and the counter-clerk who marked a
notice beginning “Lost, long-haired
blonde” Missing Friends —without
noticing that the next word was
“spaniels.”
ALL FOR BERT
It doesn’t matter who gets hurt.
Or how the wharf-strike goes.
So long as it exhibits Bert
In a new pose.
Men or masters may eat dirt
While the people pay the toll
Provided they provide for. Bert
Another role.
Security was the overt
Reason for the spy-commission
Which, really, was to let our Bert
State his position.
A fudge may grow a little curt
And the counsel’s voice metallic
If they are a feed for Bert
As a Smart Alec.
Law itself may lie inert
Twisted into incongruity
If it demonstrates for Bert
His ingenuity.
And common men and bits of skirt
Should be all prepared to give
Their vulgar little lives to Bert
For him to live.
NJS.W.
SWILLIAM.


the stork hard on the
TT ambulance’s back axle, a neighbor
was rushing his wife to hospital when
the unpredictable bird caught up. The
driver went to work, like a veteran
midwife. Clamping down on panic, the
potential father assisted manfully.
Between them the two men took delivery
of the tiny burden, carried out the
necessary essentials, then rushed mother
and child to the hospital, where both
were found to be in excellent shape.
“A bonnie girlie,” congratulated the
sister. The father looked amazed, then
horror-stricken. “You’ve mixed them
up,” he declared wildly ; “mine was a
boy.” He ran for the driver and
confirmation. The driver, too, thought
it was a boy. It was a bewildered father
who left the nursery after being shown
that there was not a newly-born boy in
the hospital.—“Harbel.”
❖❖ ❖ /
"Muskeen”; I know a New Australian
who changed his monicker from
Bomdnmk to Drinkwater.
“Nonnel”: A ripe old donny is on in
Inverell (N.S.W.). The local council has
decided to build public baths in Victoria
Park, a pretty little area, central, and,
to the casual observer, ideally suitable.
But the site is adjacent to most of the
town’s churches, and the “Ministers’
Fraternal” is not amused. The town
seethes with petitions, protest-meetings,
and debates between the aldermen and
the “no baths in Victoria Park”
organisation. As one who believes in
taking his ablutions in a more confined
area, I am strictly neutral, but one
rather disturbing doubt arises. If the
“Ministers’ Fraternal” were a real success
would there be anyone in the baths when
church was in progress?
❖ ❖ *
“Ex-R.S.M.”; Old Joe lived for years
in a disused mining - tunnel at Glen
Osmond, on the outskirts of Adelaide.
He earned a living by garden-
ing, splitting firewood and similar
odd jobs. He often fed human
derelicts and let them camp in
the tunnel. A migrant from
Europe whom he befriended
went crazy, took possession of
the tunnel and drove back Joe,
then a police party, with a
barrage of rocks. Tear-gas
was used, and the demented man
was taken to hospital, where he
died. After that, newspapers
called Joe “The Glen Osmond
Hermit.” When homes were
built near the tunnel, Joe shifted
quarters, to live in a hut at a
disused quarry. The other day
he was knocked down by a car
and died. Then the welfare-
officer at R.S.L. headquarters
began to receive telephone-calls:
he mustn’t go to a pauper’s
grave; he was a World War I
veteran. A telegram to Base
Records in Canberra established
his identity as No. 642, Private
Patrick Joseph O’Shea, who had
served in France with the 20th
Btn. The R.S.L. at once
arranged for an A.I.F. funeral in
the special section of West
Terrace cemetery, and a surpris-
ing number of people sent
wreaths and followed the coffin to the
graveside. The moral is: If any old-
timer who camps on his own dies,
and you know his name and think he
was an Old Digger, get in touch with Base
Records at Canberra, for probably he
would have as much right to a plot in an
A.I.F. cemetery as a field-marshal,
❖ *** ❖
“K.R.”: Casting around the other day
for a racy variant of the word
“politician” I- found there aren’t any!
The only alternative is the staid M.P.
Amazing, considering that politicians,
like mothers-in-law and the public service,
are fair game for the humorist. Looks
as if James Thurber, Eric Partridge, “Bo”
and other word-makers have a clear duty
ahead of them.
❖ ❖ ♦
“Becks”: One letter can make a lot of
difference. The “loftier race than e’er
the world has known” (B. 10/11/’54) of
whom John Addington Symonds wrote
were not visualised by the poet as living
“unarmed.... .as comrades free.” The
word he used was “manned,” which
means (or used to mean before it became
archaic) “embraced” or “arm-in-arm.”
To go unarmed may betoken trust or
peaceful intention, but not necessarily so,
as any practitioner of unarmed combat
can testify.
“Nonnel”: The singer who told the
radio-compere his father was a “cockatoo
at-Clerk Island” recalls the long-suffering
W.-O. Sigs. who told us, during a
lecture on mercury-vapor valves, that
when the current begins to flow the
valve blows glue. I saw no reason to
doubt this statement—probably wouldn’t
to this day, had he not corrected
himself: “Sorry, I mean, glows blue!”
+ +
v * • v
“Abdul”; Must take “Bass” to task
for using that misnomer “Mohammedans”
(B. 26/10/’54). The correct name of
the religion preached by Muhammad is
“I must get my EXACT weight !”
Islam. Followers of the faith of Islam
are called Muslims. The word “Islam”
means “absolute submission to the Will
of God,” and is derived from the root
word which means “peace.” The greeting
of the Muslims is “Assalam o Aleikum.”
(Peace be unto you.)
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: Is there a greater misnomer
than “shaving-cabinet”? Searching for
a piece of plaster to put on a cut, I
obtained from my own two-shelfer quite
a harvest; half a*bottle of liniment I’d
got about 10 years ago when I clicked
for a spot of muscular-rheumatism; an
empty peroxide-bottle; four quarter-full
bottles of a jalap which would allegedly
restore a coating to a much^bused
stomach, but which, taken now, would
probably deprive me of what coating
remains; 16 other miniature bottles con-
taining varied goos for various family-
members; five ancient toothbrushes ; four
flattened toothpaste-tubes; six jars of
ointment; 31 paper razorblade-covers;
two combs; a patent blade-sharpener
which I ceased using following five chin-
cuts ; one thimble; two pencils; a bottle
of indelible-ink; a tin of bicarb.-soda
(since transferred to the culinary sphere);
half-bottle of lysol (pushed back in a
corner, just in case); a half-bald hair-
brush, and 2ft. of rubber-tubing; a small
cogwheel off a lawnmower, and a tin of
cutting-compound. Oh, and there was
also my spare razorblade. It took me 20
minutes to get ’em all back —you never
know, some may come in handy.
EARLY-SEASON FOLLY
Your aim is to quickly get tanned :
You stretch on the warm, yielding sand:
The sun is hypnotic.
Its rays a narcotic;
By nary a breeze are you fanned.
How pleasing you cannot espy
A single cloud marring the sky !
For no sun you’re losing.
Quite soon you'll be snoozing.
You drowsily wake, by and by,
And roll over, so you'll get fried
As much on the opposite side.
The thermal attraction
Yields great satisfaction, •
It penetrates into your hide.
And so you revolve, every whit
As effective as bullock on spit;
Although cooking slowly,
Most certainly wholly —
The sunbaker’s prerequisite.
That night you will feel like a crock.
And as. hot as a cylinder-block
Will your chest be, and torso,
Your back even more so;
You’ll sport, too, a luminous clock.
Next morning your shins have become
Far tighter than any big drum.
It’s hell to tie laces .
Or pull on your braces.
Oh, misery’s depths you will plumb !
A tearing itch later you’ll feel,
And, f(Mowing that, you will peel.
You’ll get comments ribald
A bout being piebald.
You’ve had —pardon this —a raw deal.
At last is the agony o’er.
And then will the rain start to pour —
Three wet weekends running.
Ere once more you’re sunning
You’ll be lily white, as before.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.
DIAGNOSTALGIA
THE top (eastern) end of Collins-street,
Melbourne, still has “atmosphere,”
but with a difference. From about
Russell-street to Spring-street in the years
a little before World War I (when the
manse of Scots’ Church had a lawn
sloping down to its front gate) was
almost entirely devoted to doctors. Their
rooms .were in the old town-houses and
terraces, many of which have long since
been replaced by modem buildings.
After dark the ladies-of-the-town
prowled under the trees of the north side
or, if it was raining, huddled in the door-
ways, where they ate their suppers of
fish-and-chips from newspaper-wrap-
pings. The trees remain, but the ladies
have long since departed. Perhaps the
manse will tell you where.
Illumination was from spluttering
purple arc-lights. Men seemed to be
constantly employed replacing their
carbon sticks.
Some of the old houses were imposing;
others just plain utility and as much as
four stories high. Locating a doctor’s
room often entailed climbing tortuous
stairs and negotiating long passages,
always dimly-lit. Many of,the houses
had substantial stabling at the rear, and
some of these stables are now “studios.”
The front-door usually had a red-faced
diminutive “buttons” in charge. A
common waiting - room and telephone
served all tenants.
Communication with upper floors was
by lead-pipe speaking-tube. A wooden
whistle in the mouthpiece at each end
sounded when the tube was blown into,
helping, no doubt, to bring in business.
Somewhat a different set-up from the
luxurious suites of today, with their lush
carpets, elevator, receptionist, air-
conditioning, and hot-water and com-
pressed-air systems. Some of those old
rooms were mighty cold.
The doctors’ plates were about two-
feet-by-one and were clamped onto the
iron railings of the house or anything
else that was handy. Today, the plates
are little more than neat brass “cards”
arranged alphabetically in glass cases.
Many of the old plates had brass strips
riveted over the word Doctor, the result
of some decision when the right to use
that word, unless legally qualified, was
challenged. The plate usually denoted
what part of the anatomy its owner knew
best.
The street in those days was quiet—
only the tinkling of bells on the cable-
trams and clip-clop of horses’ hooves oh
the wooden paving-blocks. Motor-
traffic was in its infancy, and the huge,
noisy electric-trams a nightmare of the
future. It was then quite easy to hear
a patient’s heart beat.
Managing-agents now control the suites
in place of the widow-ladies who used
to sublet the rooms of the old houses.
Shops, other than chemists’, were almost
unknown; but today many of the fronts
and verandas have been modified for
use as small coffee-lounges and other
kinds of retail trade ranging from
antique-salons to fruit-shops. Banks
have also invaded the area; and it was
this inroad of trade which induced some
of the more conservative medicos to nip
round the corner and put their plates up
in Spring-street and thereabouts.
The Melbourne Club lived up there in
splendid isolation, but now has several
other clubs as neighbors. How many
people know that the Melbourne Club
has a large garden at the rear? It was
here that De Gilios’ orchestra used to
play, under the big tree on the lawn, on
Melbourne Cup Night. This surely must
be one of the most expensive bits of
garden in Australia. For the proletariat
a German brass band used to perform
every week in the roadway. They would
soon be skittled if they set up their
music-stands in that position today.
Horse - cabs, mainly hansoms, were
controlled from the cabbies’ shelter
near by: as soon as one collected a
fare another cab would arrive from the
shelter-rank in Spring-street. They had
a signalling-system of bells.
One of the old houses had a fountain
in front. I think it was that of the
famous Dr. L. L. Smith. Many of the
topliners in their profession lived with
their families “over the shop” ; and one
used to emerge from his front-door
early in the morning in a sweater and
sprint vigorously round the Treasury
Gardens. I often wondered whether
he prescribed that treatment for his
patients. I doubt whether many doctors
live up there nowadays.
CEG.


PERSONAL ITEMS
In Rabaul the other day foundations
for a new building were being excavated.
Revealed, a large cache of Japanese
naval torpedoes. The Navy has flown up
two experienced officers to deal with the
dangerous *find; Lieut. - Commander
M. S. Batterham and Commissioned
Gunner Ron Hillen. The Japs made of
Rabaul a huge arsenal in War II;
Batterham had the job in 1947 of
rendering safe thousands of tons of
explosive in torpedoes, mines and bombs.
It took him nine months; there were no
slip-ups. In War II he was a frogman,
one of his jobs the clearing of limpet-
mines planted on British hulls in
Gibraltar by Italians of the same under-
water fraternity. Earlier this year
Batterham, with three others of the
Oceanic Explorers’ Club, dived to a then-
record depth (for skin-divers) of 110 ft.,
near Flinders Naval Depot. Hillen, a,
lightweight boxer of note in the Navy,
was commissioned from the lower-deck,
and was then a torpedo specialist. After
the torpedo and anti-submarine branches
were merged, he became officer in charge
of new destroyer Tobruk’s uncannily
accurate asdic equipment. Being a
gunner, he is an expert diver (one of the
rank’s duties), and is now attached to the
anti-submarine training-school at Sydney’s
Rushcutter Bay.
• •
In the physog here presented, citizens
of the thriving steel city of Ipswich (Q.)
will see the man who, as much as any
other, has influenced their comforts,
from the water they drink to (he parks
they relax in. GTandson of the founder
of the Chillington Iron Works in Wolver-
hampton, England (where iron ranks
almost with football), F. A. Griffiths was
CONSTRUCTION
for 26 years engineer and architectural
surveyor of Ipswich ; constructing in that
time reservoirs, bridges, the city’s sewer-
age system, beautification schemes and a
yard or two of road. In the last-named
field he invented a cement-grout mixing-
machine which, by high-pressure com-
pressed-air, forces the grout, after mix-
ing, directly on to dry metal spread on
the road-formation, achieving a high
degree of penetration. Out of office a
councillor of the Institute of Local Gov-
ernment Engineers, he helped in form-
ing the Institution of Engineers of Aus-
tralia, and in War II took his know-how
into the Allied Works Council in
, Brisbane. More than a bit of iron in
his make-up—though he has had his 80th
birthday, he is currently engaged looking
after construction of the two-million-
gallon reservoir for the Redcliffe (out
of Brisbane) Town Council.
• o
Nobel Physics prizewinner. Professor
Max Born, of Edinburgh, has a link
with Melbourne. His daughter Irene is
the wife of B. Newton John, master of
Ormond College.
• •
Back in Melbourne, Dr. Allan Vickers,
who took a year’s leave without pay to
interest the outside world in the
Australian Flying Doctor Service.
Londoners were amazed to learn that
in primitive Australia settlers hundreds
of miles from civilisation could get to
hospital as easily and safely as the denizen
of a London suburb, and that homesteads
in the Never Never could chat to one
another and be plugged-in to the world’s
communications by a barbarous device
like the pedal-wireless. India, Pakistan
and Holland and its colonial dominions
showed interest, and a group of English
businessmen are putting up £130,000 to
instal the scheme in a British colony yet
to be selected. Once Flying Doctor at
Oloncurry, Broome and Port Hedland,
Vickers is director and senior m.o. of the
service.
Also back in 'Melbourne (after six
months in the Kimberley s), Frank
Meldrum, Australia’s first Flying Dentist.
Financed by the Victorian division of the
Flying Doctor Service, he travelled 7000
miles and treated 1594 patients, his
greatest difficulty being abos with
perfectly sound teeth who wanted them
pulled out for the sheer pleasure of it.
With him went his wife as dental nurse,
and M. Bertolini as mechanic, in a fully-
equipped van with radio-communication.
Sheep-stations, cattle-runs, missions and
camps of prospectors and drovers
welcomed them with open mouths. They
found more perfect molars among abos
remote from civilisation than among
whites.
• •
Australians smoke 30 million cigarettes
a day—a lot of gaspers, but Alfred E.
Lyon, chairman of the Philip Morris
concern. New York, now in Melbourne,
is not perturbed. Head of the
fourth-largest American manufacturers
of the weed, he is in Australia to inspect
the factory that is to make his cigarettes
at Moorabbin. He expects by the New
Year to be turning out a third of the
Australian total, with as much local leaf
in them as he can lay hands on. Moorab-
bin will export to India, Ceylon and the
Near East.
• •
. “F.S.”: Passed on at 85 in Nice, Henri
Matisse, who, with Picasso, was the main
inspiration of the “modern” movement.
Unlike Picasso, he was a competent
orthodox painter before he went in for
his distortions: he had made his living
copying Old Masters in the Louvre, and
it requires a great deal of skill to do that.
Matisse studied law before he became a
pupil of Bouguereau and Gerome. Then
he became interested in the arts of ancient
Persia, Peru and also Polynesia, and
changed his forms, but he brought his
early knowledge to the new forms, which
most of his modern imitators can’t do.
Like Picasso, he became fabulously
wealthy, and the simplest drawing of his,
or a couple of scratches on a Paris cafe
•tablecloth, might fetch lOOgns. The
proprietor of a cafe Matisse frequented
encouraged his patrons to use the table-
cloths for a canvas, using any medium
they fancied. He kept the tablecloths
and in the course of years had a vast
collection of them. Nine-tenths of them
were just spoiled cloth, but one Matisse
among them would more than pay for
the waste.
• •
“Uramao”: Calling it a day after 40
years as associate-Professor of Classics
at Canterbury University College (N.Z.),
Dr. H. D. Broadhead. His work on the
Greek dramatists won him much kudos,
particularly from Gilbert Murray. In
pursuit of knowledge on ancient Greece,
Broadhead spent his 1936 sabbatical
leave there, tracking architectural re-
mains and historic sites. His retirement
will be devoted to studying Greek
tragedians, the while hobbying at pipe-
organ building.
• •
“Cauboy”; The first new theatre to
be built in Melbourne for almost 20
years is going up at South Yarra, where
Bret Randall is converting his tiny St.
Chad’s church, which seats 126 people,
into a modern playhouse to accommodate
400. Randall has been putting on the
best plays seen in Melbourne at his Little
Theatre for the past 23 years, and doing
them, for the most part, darned well.
Efis 200th production comes off early
next year.
• •
Strictly non-suburban life for Mrs.
E. O. Swiney, back in Perth after 23 years
in the U.K. and other parts. After
training at Royal Perth General Hospital,
she went to private nursing in London,
her patients including King George of
Greece, Sir Malcolm Sargent and Jessie
Matthews. Then she took a turn with
a cosmetics firm in London; on the
outbreak of War II crossed to France,
nurse with the Seaforth Highlanders;
was evacuated just before Dunkirk, and
then served with hospitals in India, Irak,
Egypt and Scotland. Her successor as
matron of a hospital in Peshawar was
murdered in her bed three days after
taking over. Mrs. Swiney’s last job on
the other side was matron of the big
military hospital at Millbank, London.
• •
“A.J.S.”: Notched his 86th milestone,
. Canon E. M. Collick, who complains
of finding retirement dull. Understand-
able, considering that in his 56 years of
ministering in Westralia he came up
against enough characters to fill half a
dozen Human Comedies. He landed in
Fremantle after reading in an English
paper that there were 10,000 miners on
the goldfields without a parson. Collie
was then in the grip of two fevers,
typhoid and gold, and the new cleric had
a full job tending the sick and burying
the dead. Five funerals a day some-
times, coffins being mainly packing-cases
with the injunction “This side up. Stow
away from boilers.” A particularly hard
worker for Binghi, in his 30 years on
the fields he threw a Christmas-party for
them every year. Transferred to Fre-
mantle in 1928 as rector of St. John’s,
he worked just as selflessly as chaplain
to the prison, in all for 26 years. He
had a break overseas as chaplain with
the 44th Battalion. Katharine Prichard
paid him a very solid tribute in her
Roaring Nineties.
• •
Touched-down in Melbourne, Harold
Crary, consultant to America’s United
Airlirfes. On the Inky Way before he
took to the airways, he was in Uncle
Sam’s forces in War I, afterwards
opening out on advertising and promotion,
and pioneering the American Air
Transportation Association, a collection
of 20 airlines which in those days did
little more than carry letters. In 1929 he
joined the Boeing Airplane Co. and in
1935 was elected vice-president of United
Airways, the vast organisation which is
prepared to carry anything short ot a
prefab, skyscraper.
• •
Sighted in Perth, Paul Jacoulet, square-
chinned French artist and former
diplomat, who will tour Australia, New
Zealand and both Americas before
returning to northern Japan. He went
to Japan as a five-year-old with his
father, who had been appointed
Counsellor of the Japanese Imperial
Household, had all his schooling in that
country, and later was on the staff of
the French Embassy in Tokio. At 32 he
diced diplomacy for art, and established
an international reputation as a painter
for woodcuts. Main interest outside
painting is butterfly - hunting, in the
pursuance of which he has built up a
collection of more than 500,000. With
him is his secretary, also a butterfly-
hunter, and his adopted daughter,
Therese, a dainty little South Korean,
aged I\.
• •
Presented here by artist Clark (who used to
be an actor), John Cover, one of the best-
known men behind the N.S.W. entertainment
scene. After War II he started, with Gordon
Grimsdale, an agency for actors —two on their
books. Today Central Casting carries just
under 200 radio-, stage- and film-actors. Cover
attends to their bookings for studios, pays their
taxes, buys their cars, handles their hire-purchase
commitments, and in general acts as a sort of
genial guide and nurse to a clientele notably
impractical in mundane affairs. A large nurse
—something over 6ft. and 14st. He is special
agent for radio-actress Queenie Ashton —having
married her after the war.
Cover had his share of the war. In Aus-
tralia for 30 years, still in his speech a bit
of the Somerset lad he was born, he shipped
north with the Bth Division, retreated down the
peninsula till his unit ran out of land, crossed
to Java, and into a Nip compound. He was
on the way up to Moulmein in a Jap ship
when the R.A.F. set the ship on fire. Some
of the Perth’s survivors handled that, whereupon
the aircraft set-to on the second ship—one
bomb on the. stern, one amidships, the third
smack down a hatch into the hold where were
billeted 500 of the Jap administration-team
heading for the Burma-Siam railway. Cover’s
CASTING
mob felt better after that. He started railway-
work at Moulmein, and finished up at the
other end, Bangkok.
Apart from the savagery, the incident he
best remembers happened the day after the sur-
render. In prison-camp letters had been received
from Australia about the “lily-livered mob who
let Singapore fall.” Bedraggled, bags of bones,
unsure of their reception, Cover and a cobber
were driven by a Jap lorryman to a rescue-camp
in the University grounds of Bangkok. Outside
the gates were two Gurkhas lounging —as much
as Gurkhas on guard-duty can lounge. They
sighted the truck, and its cargo—and instantly
snapped to the “present.”
“Cauboy”: By an arrangement be-
tween Garnet Carroll, of the Princess
Theatre, Melbourne, and H. M. Tennent
to bring out London actors after their
West End seasons. Sir Ralph Richardson
and his wife Meriel Forbes are to do a
20-weeks’ tour of Australia, starting on
April 9 next in Perth. They will be
joined there by Dame Sybil Thorndike
and Sir Lewis Casson, to make what is
probably the strongest combination of
old-timers to tour Australia since Dion
Boucicault and Irene Vanbrugh. There
should be some charming acting.
CHARLES ARTHUR SMITH, caught
by Coventry in Adelaide (from Geelong),
boss of Ford Motors in Australia chair-
man of the recently set-up Military
Vehicles Industry Advisory Committee.
“M’Lander”: One of the biggest jobs
landed by a New Zealander in London
journalism goes to Geoffrey Cox,
appointed one of three assistant-editors
of the “News-Chronicle.” New Zealand
Rhodes man for 1932, he started with
the “News-Chronicle” in 1935, since
when he’s had a lively career. He had
been three years with the “Daily
Express” when he joined the N.Z.
Division, intelligence-officer. He told the
story of the division’s drive from the
Senio River to Trieste in his The Road to
Trieste; N.Z. Prime Minister Peter
Fraser commended his authentic report-
ing of the evacuation of Crete. Earlier
Cox had been in Finland when Russia
attacked, and had covered the Spanish
civil war. War II over, he went to
Washington as first-secretary of the N.Z.
Legation, and rejoined his present paper
as Parliamentary lobby-correspondent.
He had part of his education at Sydney’s
Shore.
• •
Eustace Rowlands, Fellow of both the
Royal College of Surgeons and of its
Australian counterpart, was a naval fellow
for the whole of War II and a year after.
He’s just been promoted to surgeon-
captain, which makes him the first
medical officer to reach that rank in the
Australian naval reserve. Still honorary
consultant-surgeon to his old service, he
acts in a similar capacity for Repat. in
Melbourne.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 69, Dr. T. W. J.
Johnson, the first graduate of Otago University
practising in New Zealand to be elected a
Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.
After returning to the Dominion from U.K.
he filled, among other big jobs, the vice-
presidency of the Royal Australian College ot
Physicians, and was consultant to the Royal
N.Z. Navy and examiner in medicine to the
N.Z. University.
In Greenslopes Military Hospital, Brisbane,
at 83, Lieut.-Col. Stephen Midgley, whose
admission to the Distinguished Service Order
went back to 1902. Then riding with the
Pietersburg Light Horse in South Africa (pro-
moted in the field), he stayed on for the Natal
Rebellion in 1906 (Royston’s Horse), and was
with the sth Light Horse in War I. Later he
commanded the 54th Battalion (C.M.G: and
twice “mentioned”).
In Adelaide, at 91, John Henry Sexton, Baptist
minister for close on 70 years, and president ot
the Union; State secretary of the British and
Foreign Bible Society for 23 years, and of the
Aborigines’ Friends’ Association for 30 Also
president of the Adelaide City Mission for “ 5
years. He was awarded 0.8. E. in 1945.
On his property near Broadford (Vic.), at
59* A. L. Long, member of Melbourne StocK
Exchange since 1925. With the A.F.C. m War
I .he returned after demob, with a single-seater
Boulton and Paul machine, to conduct the first
delivery of newspapers by air in Tasmania,
and do some survey work n fly
long-felt ambition was to be the first to ny
across Bass Strait. He had special fuel-tanks
fitted to his little aircraft, and took-off from
Launceston at 6.30 a.m. 35 years and
month ago today (Wednesday). He landed
Torquay (Vic.) six and a half hours later,
touching-down in a farmer’s padctock, much
that gentleman’s astomshment. The Historical
Society of Victoria later erected a monument
at Torquay to commemorate the event.


OPERA FOR AN AUSTRALIAN OPERA-HOUSE


ABORIGINALITIES
TINDETECTED menu ring-ins I’ve
known in country pubs include
roasting a couple of young rabbits
in the same pan as a fowl or
turkey. Each person gets a slice or
two of bunny, minus any tell-tale bones,
with the poultry. Another is to
roast white cockatoos in the same pan
as wild ducks, after steaming them
until tender, with equal portions
of both on the plate. As a youngster, I
made quite a bit of money supplying
cockatoos to a publican at a bob each.
His wild-duck dinners were famous.
But best of the lot was worked
by a Frenchman in Queensland,
He specialised in chicken-Maryland.
People raved about the dish; bmt those
“chickens” never grew feathers. The
course was flying-fox cooked, seasoned
and dished-up in the way only a French-
man seems to accomplish. No pub I’ve
come across has ever dished up the
Murray catfish as such nor have I seen
it in shops under its right name. On
the menu it appears as “perch” and
in shops it is sold cut up and
labelled “Murray cutlets.” Actually it is
equal to any of our freshwater fish for
flavor. The only thing against it is its
appearance,—“Bogaduck,”
* * * ♦
“H.H.”: I’ve noticed in bad seasons
in many districts that when quail
migrate to other lands a few odd birds
stay behind and breed. My latest
corroborative evidence has been supplied
by Arthur Kinsella, of Comely Banks,
Cora Lynn (Vic.), who has been amongst
quail for decades. Is it that these
stragglers stay put to pass the word on
to the main flock by bird-telepathy when
die season improves?
“How do you STOP it?”
“Old-timer”: One recent day in
London there occurred what the 8.8. C.
carefully calls a “bright period” —a few
minutes during which the sun nearly gets
through—and as we happened to be
idling in a car through the Horseguards’
Parade we pulled up, got out and began
to inspect the sodden dahlias in adjoining
“Be careful, Claudius —your horoscope didn't read too good
this morning.”
St. James’s Park. There, on a bit of lawn
just inside the low fence, three pelicans
stood, wringing out their feathers. We
gazed pie-eyed at them, while visions
of long, sun-drenched Murray reaches
floated before us, and a long finger
reached across 12,000 miles of ocean and
touched our hearts. The big birds
seemed friendly, though one kept a
careful eye on us, and I called, “How
long since you left Yanga Lake?” The
senior bird clapped its big bill, the other
two drew themselves up, all three heavily
took to the air, circled the little lake
once, swept low above us and departed.
As they went, a park-keeper, the
returned rain dripping off his moustache,
said with cold politeness, “Sir, would
you please not frighten the birds?” “Sir,”
I replied, “nobody can frighten pelicans.”
He threw his head back, peered vainly
into the dripping skies, and said, “Cor,
I thought they was ruddy albatrosses!”
* * * «
“Jackstay”: Seems there might be
a fortune in fish waiting for the man
who can locate and work the banks
believed to lie 200 to 300 miles west of
Fremantle, with 25 to 30 fathoms of
water ovef them, and richer in fish than
any part of the. Continental Shelf. I’ve
never heard more than a vague rumor of
their existence ; they’re supposed to have
shown up in a survey made many years
ago, and been forgotten because v of the
difficulty of keeping the catch fresh
during the long period a trawler would
have to spend there to make the trip
profitable, as well as during the long run
home ugain. If the grounds are there,
modern refrigeration methods would
solve that problem, as would the salting
process practised by the Portuguese and
other fishermen working the Grand
Banks, the full width of the Atlantic
away from their ' home-port and
market.
* ♦ * ♦
“Mick O’Mallee”: The teacher who
took us for nature-study would never
have it that the voices of frogs varied
with the locality. He told us that they
must be of different species. Years later
I asked 'a scientist about it. He
replied that he had noticed it,
but said it was due to resonance.
“You see, the shape of the sur-
rounding hills, or the presence or absence
of belts of trees, sets up echoes which
make the human ear think there’s • a
different note,” he explained. Later
still, aboriginal children in Queens-
land told me that frogs of the
same species had different voices. They
made particular mention of those in two
swamps, separated by a belt of high sand-
dunes. Sitting on the crest of those
dunes, with my hands cupped to my ears
to catch the sound from each side in turn,
I found the difference to be obvious. One
crowd seemed to chorus “Pint-pot, pint-
pot” and the other “All hot, all hot,”
the latter in a far deeper tone. A further
check showed that captured frogs from
each were identical in shape and mark-
ings. It seemed to me that each lot of
croakers would never cross those inter-
verting sandhills, and so might
develop individual voices in time.
Now American scientists, using
tape-recorders, have proved that
frogs develop what they have
named “regional accents”! »
* * *
“Sackville”: For a week
placards had proclaimed the
unequalled attractions of the
impending circus, including
“Forty trained horses, ponies
and donkeys.” The number of
assorted prads was right, too;
I counted them —milling around
in the pound. Alas, they had
been turned-out in “the long
paddock,” and our pound-
keeper took his job very
seriously. But “the show must
go on” was evidently no myth.
It did. What was more, no
equine act was cancelled, from
bareback rider to the kids’
bucking-donkey ride. Daylight
next morning brought the
explanation: the corner-post of
the pound had been chopped
down and the rails pulled out.
A court case followed, of
course, but the Beak ruled there
was no evidence to prove who
had damaged council property and
released the impounded livestock. Maybe
he had enjoyed the show.
* * * *
“Excluder”: Probably more people
know more about the honey-bee than
about any other insect on earth, yet as
soon as writers of nature-books touch
on bees they are apt to make
ridiculous statements. Maeterlinck, in
The Life of the Bee, devoted consider-
able space to perpetuating the old
superstition that a queen-bee flies high
into the sky to mate.
Actually, a queen
mates with a drone
within a few feet of
the ground and no
more than 100yds.
from the hive. You
can see flying-ants by
the thousand doing
the same thing after
summer rain, the
main difference being
that the mating of a
queen - bee takes
place on a warm
morning while the
queen - ants mate
towards sunset. Now
the American author
Alan Devoe, in his
latest , book This
Fascinating Animal
World, makes the
even more absurd
claim that queen-bees
“live 15 to 20 years
at least.” As one
who made a living
for 20 years as a
commercial bee-
keeper, I can vouch
that a queen-bee is
like a domestic hen
—she loses her egg-
laying vigor after the
second year, and a
man who wants to
make money by
honey - production
takes good care to
requeen his hives
every two years.
Occasionally I have let an especially good
queen live on in order to breed from her,
but I’ve never known one to survive
beyond the fourth year.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: To make a texture-brick
that will come out of the kiln the standard
9in. long, the wet-clay embryo is moulded
or wire-cut to a length of 9|in. On a
shed-rack sheltered from sun and winds
it is allowed to dry out, and by the time
it is dry enough to go in the kiln (a wet
brick would steam and crack with the
fire) the brick has shortened to 9|in. —
half an inch lost in atmosphere-drying.
The other three-eighths shrinks away
during the burning. Even then the results
of shrinkage are still evident: the brick
that received most fire is darker in color,
harder and —to a trained eye—noticeably
smaller than the pale, underburnt callow.
And to know what trouble such discrep-
ancies can cause you have to lay them.
* * * *
“Cyda”: Can’t accept “Fair Mac’s”
dictum (B. 6/10/’54) that open cells
don’t exist in softwood. An English
method of preserving timber is by
creosoting under vacuum. Large
cylinders (up to 150 ft, long) are used,
and the timber is stacked on small trolleys
and run in on rails. The airtight door
of the cylinder is closed and screwed
tight. Vacuum-pumps exhaust the air
from the cylinder and from the pores of
the wood, which must be dry. Creosote
is then admitted, and it right
through the timber in a few minutes. I
have ripped down the centre of Sin. x 4in.
pieces treated in this way and they were
black right through. Timber mostly used,
Baltic Red.
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: Discussion here on the
Australian stock-saddle overlooked one
important point—the amount of decora-
tive work with which the more expensive
used to be embellished. Hand-tooling
traced intricate vine- or lily-designs on
the long, tapering flaps. Black patent-
leather piped with red filled the space be-
tween seat and lining and was studded
with heavy nickelled ornaments such as
hearts, diamonds and rosettes. Knee- and
thigh-pads were capped with leather of a
contrasting color, and fancy nickelled
“keepers” held the stirrup-leathers m
place just above the irons. Fully mounted,
the whole lot weighed about 281 b.,
and generally cost about £3O which, m
today’s money, would be a whale of a lot
to pay for a saddle, though there were
plenty of men on the North Queensland
cattle-camps who didn’t think so.
THE RIVER
There is a farmer on the Murray’s banks
(member of the local council, regular at church)
who, when he contemplates the river, if at all,
thinks of it as made especially by God for him.
He works beside it, drinks of it when he’s dry,
spits in it, and, when his downstream neighbor’s
back is turned,
empties his night-bucket in its slow-flowing
stream.
He never stops to question whence the river
comes,
nor where it goes when it has served to water
his cows, his oranges, and his lucerne patch,
but somehow thinks that, straight from the hand
of God,
it springs into being a mile or two upstream
from him,
then disappears into a bottomless hole
round the next bend or so below his farm.
And there are times when I
am as incurious about the river of time
as is our pious agriculturalist
regarding the almost two-thousand miles of
Murray
of which his half-mile reach of water is a part.
I am afraid there are times, too,
when I
do my fair share of spitting
and never stop to think
for what downriver neighbors
1 foul the stream.
S.A.
IAN MUDIR.


Research in Industry
No. 8 of a series
f.r-
Hold the J£ine
Substitutes are out of fashion at the moment, not only because
wartime shortages have been overcome, but because some of the
materials that we used to regard as substitutes are now accepted for
certain applications as the very best materials in existence. One
example is the modern telephone. No one is surprised that this
instrument is made of plastics and not of wood. The explanation is,
of course, that a plastics material is the best for the job.
Many such substances owe their existence, or their development, to
1.C.1. research workers. For example, “Perspex”, the versatile
plastic, was first used in aircraft windscreens and is now to be found
in a thousand different articles.' Another plastic discovered by 1.C.1.
is polythene, of first importance as an insulating material, but now
also made into such diverse objects as water service lines, unbreak-
able washing-up bowls, squeeze bottles for powders and liquids, and
stratospheric balloons. In the world of fashion, two 1.C.1. fibres,
“Terylene” and “Ardil” are also rapidly making their mark through-
out the world. But the company’s contributions will not end there,
for the source of them all 1.C.1/s £7,500,000 a year research and
development programme goes on continuously.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
1.62A.245
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
OSUIUVAN
. pmm
MARH
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
MEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London. New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
lithographic PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
. OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,'' BRISBANE
you can put 700 lb. of meat in
this quick-freezer
There are many times when you have meat or supplies in
quantity or when reliable food preservation over a long
period could be of great assistance to you. Stock might be
at its best for the table . ; . an abundance of vegetables
. . . Spring, for killing poultry at its best. All are
occasions when you recUly appreciate a quick-
freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you can store food in bulk
at these times and keep it safely, till needed. For instance,
fresh beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal, poultry, butter;
fruit, vegetables, baked bread and fruit cake can ajl be
stored in q Flashfreeze for as long as 12 months without
deterioration in flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is
the convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand because
these units are large, the one illustrated above having
a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding 700 lb. of meat or
an equivalent quantity of vegetables or other food stuffs.
All Flashfreeze models have at feast 2 compartments for
long storage quick-freezing. However, some models have an
additional section for refrigeration for your normal to
day needs—a combination of the best in quick-freezing
and refrigeration.
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination, [B4
cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu. ft. of refrig-
eration. PRI4. Freezer-Refrigerator Combina-
tion, Ioi cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu. ft.
of refrigeration. PI2. Freezer—capacity 12
cu. ft. For full information and details,
contact:
NOYCf BROS’ IfYDVrfY) 1TD.115 Clarence St.. Sydney. 802E4
d
OACK to Tammit (N.S.W.), on the mid-
Murray, in the 1930 drought.
Against protests of authority—things
were mighty tough then —we got the
36-h.p. Marshall steam-engine going,
pumped water out on 120 acres, and
planted millet. It grew well, but out of
the blue came a caterpillar-plague to
eat it. My right-hand man, Hughie
Mathieson, an old-time station-hand,
kept reiterating “Don’t worry. Nature
sends plagues, but she sends things to
correct them.” But as more and more
millet was devoured I hung my swag-
straps up to grease them. Then, one
dawn, Hughie woke me, excitedly:
“They’re here! We’re saved!” I got up
to find three straw-necked ibis in the
irrigation. “What good can three birds
do?” I asked disgustedly. “You wait!”
And by next dawn that field was dotted
with hundreds of ibis, which soon had
the insects under control. From where,
and how, those flyers came I’ve never
known, for though it was a great place
for birds* till then I had never seen one
on that property. —“Horseless Horse-
man.”
« * * «
“Baksac”: “Muskeen’s” contention
that a top-dressing of super, on the
paddocks could have stonkered “Dune’s”
mushrooms (B. 27/10/’54) is feasible;
the solution is even simpler, if a New
Australian in our district really is (and
local rumor is adamant about it) a world-
authority on mushrooms and their
culture. His solution: run young heifers
in the paddocks. Other conditions being
right—dampness, humidity, warmth, etc.
—mushrooms will automatically appear
where heifers have grazed, so he declares.
The explanation he submits is that
virgin heifers emit a secretion which
develops mushroom - spawn just as
certain other substances breed yeast.
“Clunesman”: Seems to me that
experience on the Soil Conservation
Research Station at Wagga (N.S.W.),
where a bumper mushroom-crop always
follows heavy rain, disproves “Muskeen’s”
theory that a dressing - of super, is a
deterrent to the mushies’ growth. On the
station the land is regularly and heavily
topdressed, and subterranean-clover and
rye grow thickly.
* * * ♦
“Friar”: Touching on recent claims
that Bendigo was named after Ben Digo
or Abednego Thompson. My old teacher,
who was a native of the area, and whose
forebears were there when it was almost
entirely canvas, told us the name derived
from an abo. named Benny, who carried
“My husband's a billposter.”
the water from a creek to the shaft for
the first diggers. When water was wanted
the shout “Benny! Go!” went up, and
presumably Benny went. It would be an
easy phonetical step to Bendigo.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Sackfair”; George, born and reared
among horses, has a derry on riding-
schools and weekend riders. “Look at
’em,” he snorted in disgust as two youths
and their girl-friends came “making
butter” down the rural road as we were
having a roadside lunch. “They’d give
a broom a sore back!” One, a husky
young bloke, dug the spurs in.
“Serve him right,” declared George
when, after teetering for 20yds.,
the rider fell off and rolled in the dust.
We packed up and were all in George’s
brand-new car when the quartet
returned. George started, swung out on
to the rutted road, and deposited his
near-side wheel in a deep hole with a
jar that shuddered the whole vehicle. He
tried to pull out of it, roared his engine,
and remained vibrantly stuck. He tried
to get into reverse —and ground out a
horrible sound that brought up visions
of gear-teeth being spat out all over the
road. The big young fellow, sitting
rather gingerly on the saddle, walked his
moke past. His voice, not intended to
reach us, came clearly; “Listen to that!
How do they get licences? Just ruining
a good car.” *
,* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Two Ceylon crows, which
were lately in the news in W.A. and
were said to have attacked young native
birds and even had a crack at a baby, were
reported to have a ring of grey feathers
around the neck, and also a shriller cry
than the local’s. Seems probable they
came on a boat, but why? A chap
claiming acquaintance with the birds in
Ceylon declared that the crows there
leave Crow Island, just outside Colombo,
at sunrise, spend the day in the city, and
go home to roost; but occasionally a
bird infringes some avian law and is
either killed or banished. If the latter,
he can’t return to Crow Island, so he
seeks refuge in some quiet spot or finds
it on a boat. When he awakes he’s miles
out to sea, and the prospects of starting
life afresh in a new land looks better
than flying back to ostracism or death.
Sounds feasible, but that would make
Westralia the convict-settlement of the
avian world—and them’s fighting words.
* * * *
“Nonnel”: We’d been drafting sheep
all day, and as it was just on dark
when we let them go I told old Mac he’d
better come up to the house for supper,
to save him lighting the fire. It was
just at the end of the first course that
I caught a faint yelp from the wife, and
followed her stricken gaze. Mac was
wiping his meat-plate on the tablecloth.
Mac smiled at her, quite unperturbed:
“1 thought it’d save y’ washin’ it, missus,
in case there’s any puddin’.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Stratheden was about
a week out of Fremantle, on the way to
Australia, and a lot of people up on A-
deck wefe discussing how much to tip
their stewards and when to do it. The
big fellow weighed in, “Well, soon’s T
sight the captain I’m slingin’ him half a
note.” In came the naive lady who knew
it all. “Oh, but, one never tips the
captain!” “Why not?” roared the big
fellow. “You tip the bloke that makes
your bunks, the bloke that makes your
baths, the bloke that serves you tucker
and the blokes that bring you drinks.
'Nobody ever thinks about the boss.
There he is, bangin’ on to that wheel up
there, steerin’ round corners makin’ sure
we don’t hit rocks, pickin’ the best parts
of the track, gettin’ us home as best he
can. Gripes, if he ain’t worth half-a-quid
there’s no ruddy justice on the high seas.
What’s more” But then the dinner-
bugle sounded and he was swept aside in
the rush below.
* * * ♦
“Kobbi”: Controversy, dear to West
Queenslanders, over who selected Vindex,
the station which figures so prominently
in Winton (Q.) birth-notices of
Matilda,” is scarcely justified. Vindex
was, undoubtedly, the first holding in
that scope of sunset. Situated on
Western River, a tributary of the Dia-
mantina, it was an amalgamation of 19
blocks with a total area of 1001 square
miles. Its original selector, John Francis
Barry, called it Vindex as a challenge to
his brother-squatters, who saw nothing
but madness in Barry’s moving sheep
into such unlikely country. An old-time
photograph of Barry lately came into
my possession. He had , Dundrearies,
an intelligent forehead with a jaw so
square that no jumbuck of standing
would have dreamed of frustrating his
set intentions. Vindex, its area smaller,
is still one of the State’s richest Merino
centres.
WHITE-THROATED WARBLER
OUt of the small white throat
trembles a delicate note, •
slips down the stair of silver,
but cannot recall the way;
frail as the fading day,
plaintive as last year’s pain.
Over and over again,
light as a star falling,
sweet as the next September,
all day long from the tree
haunting me
as though a voice in my heart
is calling
Remember . . .
O Remember.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


Fatfa lit the
m
■ ■ ■■■■■■■
Future
History is where you find it. At Alice Springs,
the very centre of this continent, I was reminded
recently of one of the epics in Australian
achievement —the establishment of communications
to Europe and Asia with the opening of the
Overland Telegraph Line in 1872.
A few of the original poles are standing
outside Alice Springs, still effective and in service.
They are relics, but more than that,
monuments to a country’s determination to become
articulate in the world.
Before that line went through, communications
with Australia depended on the monthly mail
steamers.
The South Australian Government, which then
controlled the Northern Territory, made an
agreement with the British Australian Telegraph
Company to lay a cable linking Darwin with the
line already through Europe to Java.
It was conditional on Australia’s building a
land line from Darwin to Port Augusta, 1,800
miles away. Only one man had traversed that
lonely route from South to North, and he was
John McDouall Stuart, the explorer.
But the work went on. Contractors planted
the first poles at Darwin in September, 1870. The
line was completed in three sections, and the first
through-message was received in Adelaide in
August, 1872.
What a triumph for Courage and Enterprise
that was, with a British company bringing in poles
to the Roper River; with the transporting of
materials hundreds of miles.for the building of
permanent stations; with sheep and cattle driven
in to supply the workmen with food.
The men who put the Overland through had
none of the modern mechanical aids to ease or
hasten their work. Those who negotiated it had
not the benefit of to-day’s perspectives to assist
them in their planning. But they had Faith.
In that, they did more than provide us with
a line of communication. They left us an example
of what can be achieved when men have belief
in their country’s future.
7
For Sale
For Private Sale
NEWPORT
Well built flbro Home —in bush setting.
Lounge, sep. din., with open fires. Three
beds, all-elec, kit., bathroom, h.w. ser-
vice, sep. 2 toilets, hall, built-in cup-
boards, glorious views with approx. 300 ft.
beach frontage; large area land elevated,
can never be built out. Two mins. Wyn-
yard Bus. Absolutely private. Lounge,
Guest, Kit. furnished—ven. blinds. In
thorough order, vacant poss. immed. C/o
BOX 260, Bulletin, 252 George St.,
Sydney.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop pistilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
.. WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY,
JW.1268.12C
Business, Rollery, etc.
Sharemarket Shake
The temporary setback in the
sharemarket last week calls to
mind the fact that probably the
best times to buy shares are
when there is a general fall in
investment prices, when a large
parcel of scrip comes on the
market to finance probate, or
when a big issue of new shares
causes the rights to a particular
stock to sag.
In the case of a general fall
in prices, it is often wise not to
buy at the first sharp fall. Quite
often there is a rally, followed
by a steeper fall. And for some
days, often for some weeks, the
opportunity exists to pick up
shares at a heavy discount on
the price of a short time earlier.
When a stock, judged on its own
merits, looks a bargain con-
sidered away from prevailing
market conditions, it usually is
a bargain, and will show itself to
have been one as soon as a turn
in the market occurs.
Obviously, to take advantage
of a slump in share-prices, one
has to act in the face of prevail-
ing market psychology. Other-
wise there would be no fall in
prices. And, of course, one needs
to have the ready cash to invest.
Quite often an investor is fully
committed already, and could
only buy depressed shares with
an eye to future profits by selling
his present holdings at a loss.
Sometimes the holder of second-
line stocks has the chance to
sell out at near top prices after
he has already sensed the down-
ward trend from the movement
in the front-liners.
Last week the drop in prices
was prompted by thoughts of an
emergency arising out of the
wharf-strike. As the contingency
appeared to fade, so share-prices
began to recover. A class of
shares which appeared to be
particularly affected was textiles.
Bradford Cotton dropped to 375.
(then recovered to 38s. 3d.).
Australian Woollen Mills (Sept.-
paid) fell to 31s. 3d., then
recovered to 325. Yarra Falls
sagged to 38s. 6d. Bruck Mills
were weak at 285., and Burling-
ton was below par at 19s.
Minster (carpets) was on offer at
245. 6d. for the first time in
months, Tennyson Textiles
dropped to around par.
Some of these textile issues
were still shaky after the leaders
had almost recovered, and Brad-
ford Cotton and Australian
Woollen Mills in particular
appeared worthy of attention.
The former yielded 6.5 p.c. at
38s. 6d., the latter 6.2 p.c. at 325.
Rough Range No. 5
At a distance of 2034 ft. west
of the No. 1 well, Rough Range
No. 5 was spudded-in last
Wednesday. Of the four previous
holes, only the first gave oil,
which had obviously migrated
from some distance. The oil-
flow has been cemented-off at
3605 ft., and Rough Range No. 1
is now down to 12,050 ft., with
drilling at present easier and
faster.
At Cape Range operations
have been delayed by repairs to
the drilling-rig. The depth is
5812 ft.
Grant Range No. 1 well,
south-east of Derby, near
Nerrima Dome, was already
down to 701 ft. nine days ago,
and a string of casing was being
prepared.
Ampol Exploration, Ltd., has
an issued capital of 8,000,000
shares of ss. each. It owns a
20 p.c. interest in West Aus-
tralian Petroleum, Ltd. Ampol
Petroleum, Ltd., has 5,400,000
shares in Ampol Exploration.
At 60s. per Ampol Ex. share
the Wapet venture is valued at
£l2O million. It is near its lowest
level for many months.
Pacific Uranium and Oil
The most unusual aspect of
the Pacific Uranium and Oil
Syndicate, Ltd., flotation is the
fact that the shares are of £5
denominations, and that they are
payable in full on application.
The fact is quite refreshing at
a time when the sharemarket has
been seething with millions of
half-crown and five-shilling
shares, these in periods of excite-
ment bubbling up to premiums
which have been quite
unjustified, and causing scrip-
transfer problems never before
known in Australia. Recently a
large oil-and-uranium prospect-
ing venture was suspended from
Stock Exchange dealings because
of the lag in its keeping up with
share-transfers —it had an issue
of around 5,000,000 ss. shares,
and was making a one-for-one
new issue.
Notwithstanding the word
“Syndicate” in its title, and the
£5 denomination of its shares.
Pacific Oil and Uranium intends
to seek Stock Exchange listing
later- on. Charles H. Smith and
Co., of Sydney Change, have
underwritten the public issue of
10,000 shares, and the vendors
will receive 900 fully-paids as
part-consideration for options,
authorities to prospect, etc. An
additional £2500 is payable in
cash, leaving the co. with £lO,OOO
for plant, etc., and £37,500 for
working capital, preliminary
exes., etc.
The oil-prospecting areas are
to be taken over from J. P,
McCosh. The option in Queens-
land covers an authority to
prospect an area of 5700 square
miles at the north end of the
Bowen Syncline, bounded on
the south by the Roma area of
Associated Australian Oilfields,
N.L., and on the west by the
Reid’s Dome area of Aus-
tralasian Oil Exploration, Ltd.
The area is said by geologist
W. D. Mott to include Permian
rocks of salt-water origin of
4000 ft. to 6000 ft. thickness,
overlain by fresh-water sedi-
ments, and to be likely source-
beds of petroleum. Petroliferous
gas, he says, was found in their
upper members at Arcadia, to
the south-west of the area.
The Victorian area is approxi-
mately 140 square miles in the
Gippsland Oil Basin, from which
oil has been produced in non-
commercial quantities at Lakes
Entrance. The prospectus
mentions that Frome-Lakes Pty.,
Ltd,, and Woodside (Lakes
Entrance) Oil, N.L., will com-
mence drilling in the near future
on adjacent areas, and Mineral
Ventures, N.L., proposes to
develop an adjoining area.
The New Guinea areas
aggregate 10,000 square miles,
and embrance the Aitape-
Wewak and Cape Vogel areas.
The uranium options are in the
Mt. Isa-Cloncurry area, and
involve transfers from Southern
Cross Uranium Syndicate and
North-West Uranium Syndicate.
On the board of Pacific
Uranium and Oil are Michael
Langtree, G. B. Lean, J. P.
McCosh and C. H. Smith.
Grafton Brewing Co.
A six-year-old brewing venture
in the N. S. Wales North Coast
area has cleared off accumulated
losses, paid-off pref.-div, arrears
and declared a 6 p.c. ord. div. for
1953-54.
The Grafton Brewing Co.,
Ltd., whilst serving principally
its own area, has penetrated the
Sydney market. Last year it
made a profit of £32,652, after
setting aside £16,078 for deprecia-
tion and £ll,OOO for taxation.
(In the preceding year the loss
was £3776.) After wiping-off
£16,020 of accumulated losses
and paying the divs. there was a
balance of £4736 left in the busi-
ness to support £334,922 of paid
capital, of which £25,200 is in
6 p.c. redeemable prefs. Increase
in paid capital during the year
was £171,163.
To finance the brewery’s
expansion programme, mostly in
connection with buildings and
plant, further capital will be
issued this term. In the mean-
time, “satisfactory overdraft
arrangements have been made
with the co.’s tankers.” At June
30 the co. owed the bank
£155,085 ; total liabilities, includ-
ing the proposed div., were
£234,914. Fixed assets were in
the books at £465,632 (up
£130,111); stocks, debtors, etc.,
ran to another £109,515.
The venture, for a variety of
reasons, is deserving of success.
The Test for Industry
Buoyancy has been so much
a part of N.Z.’s experience in the
past 12 months that the 1954
Economic Survey could hardly
have been anything but bright in
tone and outlook.
There is more stability today
than at any time since the birth
of the Holland regime nearly
five years ago. N.Z. has felt the
influence of steadier tendencies
in the world, and internally
controls have been at work hold-
ing back pressures, such as rising
costs and prices, excess demands
for capital and labor, and a
somewhat unsettled loan market
However, such stability appears
rather artificial and uncertain
without any real, solid founda-
tion, Disturbing influences are
merely held in check, and not
very effectively, as business over-
heads show.
The best hope is outside
influences —that is, those beyond
N.Z.’s direction—will be strong
enough to gain the mastery, the
record of control being what it is.
Manpower conditions are less
controllable this year than last,
and can’t be expected to improve
while there is overemphasis on
industrial expansion, without
considering carefully whether it
is economic. Basic industries
can’t get enough labor, and the
country is handicapped by
parasitic enterprises, sheltering
behind controls. This is the type
of balance attained.
It would be in the country’s
interest to give healthy competi-
tion the rein, and perhaps the
time for this is not far off. More
freedom to import when
exchange-rationing goes next
January should put local enter-
prise more on its mettle and
should have salutary effects
where controls have failed.
Freedom will be a natural, neces-
sary and logical sequel to revival
of competition on world markets
for butter, cheese and meat,
forcing N.Z. to. keep a more
careful watch on its spending
and on costs, externally first, then
internally. The test for industry
in the future will be its capacity
to exist without a lot of
umbrellas. Productivity will have
to be built up in weak spots or
concentrated more in, areas of
strength.


JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES FOR
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS FOR
<a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the
cost of residence at St. John’s College and an allowance of up
to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees, or
<b) HAWKESBUHY AGKICUL.TUKAI, COUUEOE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £l2O per
annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made avail-
able under the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means
are insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science
and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of application (which must be returned duly com-
pleted not later than the 10th January, 1955, in the case of
Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and
not later than the 7th February, 1955, in the case of those tenable
at the University of Sydney), and further particulars may be
obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LTD.),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Public Notice
I. DIMITRIOS KANELLOS or OANELLOS*
Stateless, born at Sulina, Rumania, resi-
dent years in Australia, now residing
at 301 Crown Street, Surry Hills, intend
to apply for naturalisation under f the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
1,500,000 TRANSACTIONS
HANDLED EVERY WEEK
Over one and a half million entries to customers’
accounts are posted in the ledgers end balanced
by A.N2. Bank staff every week. To an increasing
extent, the work is performed on accounting and
ledger-keeping machines which promote both
accuracy and speed.
This great volume of business is another indication
of the growth and popularity of A.N.Z. Bank
with over 780 branches and agencies located to
serve you all over Australia and New Zealand,
in Fiji and Papua, and in London.
A-N-Z
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
In which are merged
Bank of Australasia Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Agents throughout the world.
— ■■■lie I— "I I ANZ. 105.1
7?
BF
■BBS
o
ShuUuk warriors open fuel cans
with their spears
It happened in 1925, at Malakal, in the
burning heat of the Sudan. Alan Gobham
was blazing the trail for an Imperial Air-
ways route from London to the Gape,
flying a DH 50 with a 385 h.p. Siddeley
Jaguar air-cooled engine.
At Malakal—as at all other landing
points on this historic flight —supplies of
BP Aviation Spirit were waiting. The
Shulluk warriors, their bodies glistening
in the sun, first performed a war-dance,
in honour of the strange bird, then
pierced the lids of the BP cans with their
spears to help in the refuelling.
Alan Cobham fought his way through
sandstorms and dangerous landing condi-
tions. Today, hundreds of aircraft fly
every year along the route that Cobham
opened.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to keep
pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to provide
aviation fuels speedily and efficiently.
Vaviatidh
SERVICED
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTO
Marketers for Anglo-lraman Oil Co. Ltd
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Slanting and darting blobs of
rain trickle down the windows
which insulate the cosy bright-
ness of the Pullman car from the
dingy mist and the murky
November damp of the West
Riding landscape. The train
hurries southwards. And one
passenger, himself a renegade
Bradfordian, is moved to reflec-
tion on the changes he has
noticed. (Even “t’Pullman,”
once unique and unchallenged as
the acme of luxury in long-
distance travel, is outmoded, runs
only by courtesy of British Rail-
ways, and is soon to be dis-
continued.)
On the surface, there may
seem few signs of change; the
streets and buildings are pre-
ponderantly of stone, very
smutty stone; the Yorkshire
proverb, “Wheer there’s muck
there’s ‘brass’,” has solemn
prophetic truth; the woolmen
grumble—or, if not that, discredit
their prosperity; everywhere
there is a warm, natural
courtesy ; and the 8.8. C., or, for
that matter, any other moderat-
ing influence, is quite without
effect upon the distinctive local
accents.
But, as elsewhere, casual labor
is scarce. Bus-services are cut
down and reflect the large post-
war settlement of displaced
Europeans, mainly Poles, by the
foreign accents of the con-
ductors.
Woolmen, once defiantly loyal
to their raw material, now
unashamedly admit to wearing
nylon socks and even openly
recognise the new fabrics as
alternatives, not competitors, to
wool.
Television is a necessity in
every home. It makes the
children skimp their homework,
bolt their meals and keeps them
up at night. Visitors from distant
parts, even glamorous London,
are not the novelties they were
30 years ago. Rut then, 30 years
ago we had nothing like tele-
vision. We had only crystal-
sets.
Perhaps they weren’t as
innocuous as they sound today.
For, reflects the passenger after
turning out some old papers,
there is written evidence of
their contemporary influence.
Attached to a school report of
1923 was a sternly-worded
circular drawing parents’ atten-
tion to the dangers of “wireless”
and to the error of an anonymous
unfortunate who had confessed
that he did his homework with
the headphones on.
Small Savings
Side-by-side with Britain’s
expansion of hire-purchase a
marked growth of individual
savings is noticeable. In the
first 29 weeks of the savings
year, “small” savings show a
net-increase of £44 million, as
against a net reduction of £l4
million during the corresponding
weeks of 1953-54. It is esti-
mated that 80 per cent, of this
sum has been placed in the Post
Office and Trustee Savings
Banks, whose combined deposits
now amount to over £lOOO
million, representing some 27
million savers.
As a further inducement to
thrift, the limit of national-
savings certificates holdings has
been raised from £525 to £750,
and that of 3£ per cent, defence-
bonds from £lOOO to £2OOO.
This is part of a campaign to
raise 2,000,000 new savers.
So, despite pension contribu-
tions, life-assurance premiums
and building - society repay-
ments, there is clearly a com-
mendable inclination to provide
for the rainy day, notwithstand-
ing the public shelter that the
Welfare State affords. Moreover,
expanding earnings, a reason-
ably stable cost of living and a
greater confidence in the £
supply a welcome incentive.
Something quite new to this
country is a scheme that enables
the small saver to buy shares
for as little as ss. a week. This
scheme has been devised by the
doyen of unit-trusts, the “Muni-
cipal and General.” The
mechanics of it are simple. In
order to avoid disproportionate
expenses in issuing certificates,
the units are registered in the
name Of the company’s thrift-
Account and are held in
trust by the managers. Pay-
ments can be made at any time
but must amount to at least £lO
a year. Dividends are auto-
matically reinvested and half-
yearly statements are provided.
The “M. and G.” maue two
strong points: that their plan
makes the subscriber an owner
instead of a lender, since his
money is invested in ordinary
shares ' r and, though he accepts
the risks as well as the benefits
of ownership, the wide spread
and professional management of
the portfolio is a virtual safe-
guard of his capital.
Another Notch
The “Five-Year Folio Plan”
may suggest some ponderously
conceived scheme for the over-
haul of Governmental auditing,
but it has nothing to do with
Whitehall. The plan originates
from the Waterloo-road, and
expresses concisely, if not very
subtly, the Old Vic.’s promise to
present all 36 of the Shakspearian
First Folio. “Love’s Labor’s
Lost” means another notch —the
eighth—on the stave.
The actors grow breathless in
their efforts to invest the play
with something it lacks
sustained interest. They try hard,
but, except for a few echoing
guffaws, loud in their very isola-
tion, make little impact upon the
audience. Topicalities, no doubt
uproariously meaningful at a
Christmas charade over 350 years
ago, are strange, cold and
mummified. The word-play is
unfunny. The content of rhymed
couplets is excessive; they have
to be thrown away to avoid arch-
ness. The poetry rarely sparkles.
And the love-letter scene, obvi-
ously intended to be high
comedy, is embarrassingly
futile.
Significantly, the things that'
please most are superimposed.
Cecil Beaton’s costumes are gaily
extravagant and Elizabethan.
And Frith Banbury’s artifices of
production, though straight from
the old oak-chest, are nicely
pointed and not overdone.
It would seem, too, that instead
of teamwork this play calls for
strong individuality and
irrelevant character. Berowne,
for example, was probably a bad
actor who oozed sex-appeal as
flagrantly as he stole scenes.
Such a one, indeed, as would not
outlast a single rehearsal at the
Vic. This gallant (supposed to
be a flagrantly immodest self-
portrait of the author) John
Nevijle plays with zealous
orthodoxy and obtrusive pre-
ciosity of diction.
The closing scenes are worth
waiting for. Like some last
movements in music, charm and
exuberance dissipate the memory
of earlier tedium. But what a
queer twist it is that nips true
love in the bud and puts the
courtship of eight lovers off for
a year merely because of a col-
lateral death! The Old Vic.
players try, without much
success, to impart poignancy to
the four partings. Surely, the
enchanting stylised rusticity of
the epilogue warrants a more
tongue-in-cheek approach.
The women tend to be lifeless,
but Virginia McKenna gives
Rosaline an edge of sophistica-
tion. By mimicry, rather than
acting, Paul Rogers makes a sad-
faced and out-of-joint Armado.
The best comedy part is the brisk,
laconic Holofernes of Laurence
Hardy. And a new child actor.
Bunny May, is a bright and
cocky Moth,


r* 1
BS
H
a
ill
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
ORANGE and
TAM WORTH
TRUST AND AGENCY
EUNDB UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £71,000,000
YOUR WILL is first and foremost a business matter
YOUR Will is probably the most important document that you will
ever sign. Failure to treat it as a business matter of the highest
importance may prove costly to your family.
The best procedure is to discuss your problems, in confidence, with
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited. The Company has more than 65
years experience in Estate administration and is well qualified to guide
you in your planning.
The next step is to have your Will properly drawn by a Solicitor.
This will involve the appointment of an Executor and Trustee. If you
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as sole Executor —or jointly
with a relative or friend —you will be following the lead Of many of
our wisest and most successful citizens.
The services Perpetual Trustee Company Limited has to offer, and
the charges, are set out in the Company’s helpful and informative booklet,
“Your Executor and Trustee.” ’Phone 80377 or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN 0. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. Q. ARMYTAQE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
. COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Associated Leathers, Ltd.
iCTNCE the close of accounts the
Commonwealth Government’s con-
trol of hides has been abandoned, and
the market is now free, being based on
export parity. There has been a rise in
leather prices, though leather is still sub-
ject to price-control. In the case of
Associated Leathers, Ltd., in the first
three months of the Current term there
has been an increase in turnover, and
exports of the subsidiary companies “are
still at a satisfactory level.”
During the period (to June 30) covered
by the accounts of Associated Leathers
and its sudsidiaries there was a 10 p.c,
increase in turnover compared with
1952-53. The footwear trade has been
extremely busy. As a result of the co.’s
own increased tanning activities there
was a strengthening in earnings (after
setting aside £38,593 for depreciation, up
£1325), but it was not as much as the
upward movement shown in the following
table would suggest:
Associated Leathers and Subsidiaries.
, Div idends
Pref. _ To Re- ' Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. t — serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Profit, sale assets, £18,378 .. .. 29,197
1949.. 97,842 8660 8 p.c. = 63,596 25,586 54,783
Profit sale assets, £8127 .. .. 57,910
Added on purchase of outside interests
and new subsidiary, £14,247 .. 72,157
1950.. 151.200 9813 9 p.c. = 84,311 57,076 129,233
Profit sale assets, £35,040 .. .. 164,273
Deducted on purchase of new sub-
sidiaries, £2461 161,812
Tax overprovided, £2896 .. .. 164,708
1951.. 9813 9 p.c. = 88,217 71,342 236,050
Profit sale assets, £12,531 .. .. 248,581
Net addition reserves, £l2OO . .. 249,781
1952.. 169.718 9813 9 p.c. = 91,967 67,938 317,719
Profit sale assets, £4437 .. .. 322,156
Net addition reserves, £482 .. .. 322,638
1953.. 9813 9 p.c. =110.717 67,928 390,566
Profit sale assets, £3124 .. .. 393,690
Tax overprovided, £27,922 .. .. 421,612
Additions to pre-acquisition res., £lBl2 423,424
1954.. 218.385 9813 9 p.c. =110,717 97,855 521,279
* After deducting goodwill on consolidation, now
£398,387.
When taxation overprovided in the
previous year is brought back into
1952-53 earnings, profits for each year
are about the same. The 1953-54 figure
was equal to 17 p.c. on capital, after
allowing for pref. requirements, and the
9 p.c. div. was an extremely comfortable
matter. The ord. div. took £110,717, and
reserves benefited by £97,855, carrying
them up to £521,279 (after deducting
“goodwill on consolidation,” now
£398,387).
Formed in 1948, Associated Leathers
brought under one control five allied
cos, engaged in the leather industry in
Australia and New Zealand, and ranging
in age from 54 to 84 years. Other
operating cos. were acquired later. There
are now 10 subsidiaries:
Melbourne:
Michaelis, Hallenstein and Co. Pty., Ltd.
(branch in Tasmania); Michaelis, Hallen-
stein (Export) Pty., Ltd.; R. W. Thomson
Pty., Ltd.; Hedley’s Pty., Ltd.
Sydney:
Farleigh, Nettheim Pty., Ltd.
Brisbane:
Farleigh, Nettheim (Qld.) Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide:
Julias Cohn and Co., Ltd.
Perth:
Rosenstamm Pty., Ltd.
Dunedin {N.Z.}:
Glendermid, Ltd. \
London:
Australasian Leathers, Ltd.
The group operates five tanneries, its
factories make finished leather-goods, and
its warehouses handle leather, grindery,
saddlery, canvas, sportsgoods and a
variety of other lines. It has “a
substantial and regular” export business,
mostly with the United Kingdom, Europe
and Asia.
Though £41,622 was spent on plant
during the year, depreciation written-off
reduced the net increase in the book-
value of fixed assets to £2815:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1951. 1953. 1954.
Pref £196,250 £196,250 £196,250
Ord 980,194 1,230,194 1,230,194
Reserves .. .. 236,050 390,566 521.279
Outside interests.. 7,000
Overdrafts .. 275,452 548,374 510,668
Tax provision .. 171,885 190,663 187,996
Creditors .. .. 533,694 238,382 318,879
Final divs. .. 98,030 120,530 120,530
£2.498,555 £2,914,959 £3,085,796
Freeholds .. .. 410,899 512,565 507,370
Plant, etc. .. 591,729 762,646 804,268
£1,002,628 £1.275,211 £1,311,638
Less depreciation.. 566,595 657,959 691,571
436,033 617,252 620,067
Shares other cos... 165,189 158,389 156,888
Mortgage .. .. 43,192 41,309 40,057
Stocks .. .. 1,284,876 1,507,114 1,598,786
Debtors .. .. 541,027 582,650 664,790
Cash, bonds .. 28,238 8,245 5,208
£2,498,555 £2,914,959 £3,085,796
There was an increase of £91,672 in
stocks and £82,140 in debtors. The
outside debt moved up by £41,622.
Undistributed profits looked after the
rest of the expansion in liquid assets,
and the liquid position is quite
comfortable, though if hide and leather
prices increase much during the present
term the co. may need more bank-
accommodation. (
Associated Leathers’ ords. are an
attractive holding proposition. Though
net tangible assets, on book-values, are
equal to 14s. 4d. per 10s, ord. stock-unit,
fixed assets appear to be heavily depreci-
ated, and there is more strength in
the undertaking than is visible to the
naked eye. At 18s. the 10s. units yield
5 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. If present
expansion in turnover continues, a lift
in the div.-rate should not be long
delayed.
F. J. Walker, Ltd. .
TVROUGHT affected turnover during
the year, in which two additional
businesses in the Newcastle district—
Oldham Bros., Ltd., and R. N. McGavin
and Son—were added to the list of sub-
sidiary companies at the cost of a one-
tenth increase in the parent’s capital,
which went up by £lOO,OOO to £1,100,000.
Both of the additions are in the wholesale-
butchering and smallgoods-manufacturing
trade, and McGavin’s retail as well
through several shops.
The parent is a trading and holding
concern controlling a group of 11
associated enterprises engaged in the meat
and allied industries, including cold-
storage, throughout N. S. Wales.
The, subsidiaries are:
Australian Chilling and Freezing Co.,
Ltd.; Australian Wool and Produce Co.
Pty., Ltd.; Australian Natural Gut Manu-
facturing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Commercial
Freezing Co. Pty., Ltd.; Hunter River
Meat Preserving Co. Pty., Ltd.; Metro-
politan Meat Co, Pty., Ltd.; Oldham Bros.,
Ltd.; R. N. McGavin and Son Pty., Ltd.;
Sydney Meat Preserving Co., Ltd.; Walker .
Trading Co. Pty., Ltd.; Waterside Cold
Stores Pty., Ltd.
Turnover of the group last year rose by
£645,000 to £8,204,000, most of it sold on
the Australian market. It would have
been bigger still but for the hard winter
season. Results of the Walker enterprises
are subject to conditions in the pastoral
industry, with which the subsidiaries have
close associations in the killing of stock
(at Auburn and Aberdeen) for the local
and export meat trade and the treatment
at Botany (Sydney) of sheepskins. There
are eight rabbit-chilling works, and other
offshoots make smallgoods, casings,
butter, ice and gut and other by-products.
Notwithstanding the difficulty of
obtaining fat-stock towards the end of the
financial year, the combined enterprises
(including the Newcastle additions) were
able to show profit a shade higher than in
the preceding term:
F. J. Walker, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 169,402 9 p.c. = 90.000 79,402 303,898
1952.. 184,997 10 .. „ 100,000 84,997 388,895
Written off intangibles, etc., £6049 .. 382,846
1953.. 317,740 12Jp.c.= 125.000 192,740 575,586
Tax overprovided, £74,076 .. .. 649,662
Pre-acquisition profits, written-off, etc.,
£16,510 633,152
1954.. 321,464 15 p.c.= 165.000 156,464 789,616
* Subject to intangibles ( £149,029 at June 30, 1964.)
However, in arriving at the 1952-53 profit
there was an overprovision of £59,742
for income-tax; so that the effect of the
adverse season was greater than a com-
parison of the two years’ figures would
indicate. Not only did the
surplus of meat available for export
decline considerably; cold - storage
revenue was down also. And, with wool
prices tending to drop, there was not the
same rate of profit on fellmongering.
Nevertheless the 15 p.c. div. (up 2\ p.c.,
and 5% p.c. of it tax-free) was an extremely
comfortable matter. Net earnings were
29.2 p.c. on capital, and nearly as much
as was handed to shareholders was
retained in the business. Depreciation
provision was £40,639 against £32,786.
Reserves stand in the books at £789,616,
subject to £149,029 of net premiums on
shares in subsidiaries (reduced by
£60,469 during the year as a result of the
Newcastle absorptions).
Recent rains in the north and north-
west of N. S. Wales promise a much
better season for 1954-55, especially as
sheep and cattle figures have reached a
record level. On the export side, the
British Government has reverted (under
its contract) to a trader-to-trader basis in
lieu of bulk - purchasing; but, since
decontrol, prices in the U.K. have risen
by 20-25 p.c. Though the British Ministry
of Food still has large stocks of meat on
hand, the Argentine is no longer such a
large exporter as it was (owing to grow-
ing domestic consumption), and prospects
for the export of Australian and New
Zealand meat in the foreseeable future
are bright.
As usual, stocks, debtprs and the out-
side debt of the F. J. Walker group are
very compact figures in view of the large
turnover:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1952. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,100,000
Reserves .. .. 388,895 575,586 789,616
Outside interests.. 5,574 5,208 4,769
Tax provision .. 171,269 265,809 180,300
Creditors .. .. 172,396 217,874 243,546
Final dividend .. 60,000 75,000 96,250
£1,798,134 £2,138,977 £2,414,481
Freehold and lease-
holds .. .. 642,972 646,831 826,845
Plant, machinery,
etc 356,710 387,116 500,163
Stock .. .. 300,190 218,367 262,050
Debtors . . .. 204,057 259,053 288,846
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 79,723 418,112 387,548
Intangibles . .. 214,482 209,498 149,029
/ £1,798,184 £2,138,977 £2,414,481
Stocks rose £43,683 to £262,050. Creditors
include £21,112 set aside to provide for
long-service leave, which has become a
liability instead of a gratuity. The growth
of £293,162 in fixed assets was principally
the result of the absorption of the Oldham
and McGavin businesses. The comfort-
able nature of the finances is emphasised
by the £252,296 holding in Common-
wealth loans (up £239,296 during the
term). Fixed deposits, etc. (£24,651),
dropped £309,961. “Debentures (short-
term) of other company” rose by £40,000
to £llO,OOO. In these various cash and
investment items there was an overall
drop of £30,264.
Tax-free reserves are now virtually
exhausted. But the additional 2\ p.c, in
the taxable dividend is some compensa-
tion, and the sharemarket buys a promis-
ing equity at 255., to yield 6 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. The 10s. stock-units
have a net backing of 17s. 2d. on book-
values. The whole organisation is closely
interwoven and self-contained.
J. & A. Brown & Abermain Seaham
(OPERATIONS of N. S. Wales coUieries
remain under the control and direc-
tion of the Joint Coal Board, with profit-
margins more or less fixed. But the
efficient colliery may still reap some
reward for its efficiency, and J. and A.
Brown and Abermain Seaham Collieries,
Ltd., has taken every advantage of the
opportunities offering to modernise its
plant and increase its output. The co.
owns some of the best collieries on the
Maitland field, and its output has been
high over the past few years.
Last term better working time was
experienced at the collieries, and output
was up compared with the preceding term.
Gross profit, in the circumstances, was
probably considerably better than in the
previous year. But the net result is
written after making some large and
rather arbitrary provisions. Out of the
year’s earnings, after short-providing for
income-tax, there was a provision of
£158,000 (up £23,000) for depreciation
and special depreciation, and £450,000 (up
£50,000) for capital expenditure on plant
and development. Allowing for these
allocations, net profit was £1129 higher
at £156,345. For the third year in a row
the net profit was just a little more than
the 8 p.c. div. called for:
June 80, Profits. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1945 .. 95,629 5 95,000 79.302
1946 .. 94,934 5 95,000 79,230
Extra subsidies tor 1945 and 1946
and profit on sale of collier, £88,796 118,082
1947 . . 106,962 5 95,000 129.993
Profit on sale of shares, £38,949.. 163,942
1948 .. 109,884 5 95,000 178,776
1949 .. 123,405 6i 123,500 188,681
Added contin’cy acct., £lO,OOO 198,681
1950 .. 138,687 7 133,000 199,368
Added conting’cy acct. £lO,OOO 209,868
1951 . . 149,304 7i 142,500 210,172
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £200,000)
1952 .. 158,736 8 152,001 222,907
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £400,000)
1953 .. 155,216 8 152,001 226,122
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £450,000)
1954 .. 156,345 8 152,001 230,467
“Although full provision has not been
made for income-tax out of the year’s
profit,” the board says, “the balance stand-
ing to the credit of Provision for Taxa-
tion Account is sufficient to cover all
known liabilities.” A study of balance-
sheet figures seems to support this state-
ment. Sundry creditors and provision
for tax total £830,452.
During the 1951-52 terra the Federal
Government legislated to allow certain
capital expenditure in the industry as a
tax-free deduction, and a new basis of
price-fixing was introduced. Since then
J. and A. Brown has set aside £1,050,000
tax-free for the purchase of necessary
plant and the financing of development.
In addition, it has written-off £408,000 in
depreciation. During the same triennium
its net earnings have totalled no more
than £470,297.
The facts to be noted from these
figures are that, for the present, while
divs. are modest, the co, is modernising
and extending its plant and shipping
facilities without increasing its capital
commitments. For the future, it should
mean not only cheaper coal, but better
profits for shareholders. Even if last
year’s allocation for capital expenditure
had been retained and had borne tax it
would have provided probably another
15 p.c. on capital. But the end of these
allocations and expenditures is not yet
in sight.
Another collier is on order, and a coal-
cleaning plant at Hexham is progressing
steadily. The collieries are being
modernised and mechanised to deal with
pillar coal. A wholly-owned subsidiary
(Hexham Engineering Pty., Ltd.) was
formed during 1951-52, and it earns
profits outside the coal industry as well as
in it.
Because of tax-free allocations and
depreciation allowances, the book-value
of the chief earning assets over the past


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FINAL DIVIDEND No. 79
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the
Directors have decided to recommend at
the Annual General Meeting of the Com-
pany to be held on 14th December, 1954,
payment of a FINAL DIVIDEND of ONE
SHILLING AND SIXPENCE per share
sterling in respect of the year ended 30th
June, 1954, less United Kingdom Income
Tax at NINE SHILLINGS in the £
(EIGHT DECIMAL POINT ONE PENCE
per share), the net amount of Dividend
being NINE DECIMAL POINT NINE
PENCE per share sterling.
This Dividend makes a total distribu-
tion of TWO SHILLINGS AND THREE-
PENCE per share sterling for the year
ended 80th JUNE, 1954.
Subject to confirmation at the Annual
General Meeting the Dividend will be paid
on 22nd DECEMBER, 1964, to all Share-
holders registered mi the books of the
Company at the close of business on
18th NOVEMBER, 1954.
The Transfer Books will be closed from
19th to 22nd NOVEMBER, 1954, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Exchange
ruling on 18th NOVEMBER, 1954.
For LAKE VIEW & STAR LIMITED,
R. INCE, Attorney.
Pimiston, sth November, 1954.
d
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
Insurance Supervision
BA WIRINGS & OABDNBB Pty. Btd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made In your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 8446, BU 1409.
Missing Beneficiary
RE ESTATE OF JOHN H. FRANCIS.
WILL DONALD FRANCIS, who was born
at Moyston, Victoria, on 2nd January,
1866, son of CHARLES ARTHUR
FRANCIS and MARY FRANCIS (formerly
MATHESON), or his children, or any
person having information about them,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street. Melbourne,
Victoria.
Fly Canadian Pacific
S
TO NORTH AMERICA
Only Canadian Pacific operates
SUPER DC-6B's to North America
. . . non-stop Fiji to Honolulu.
Only Canadian Pacific offers 18£
hours' stopover at famous Waikiki
Beach luxury hotel
VANCOUVER
m
HAWAi
FIJI
AUCKLAND
\s SYDNEY
:/
Your choice of luxury fDtqwess
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
service.
Departures from Sydney oveuy
Tuesday.
* TOURIST*
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents to*
Canadian Pacific), or your local travel agent.
.
xn nm
Canadian (Pacific
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
WITH WHICH IS UNITED
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK LIMITED
Registered O/pce : 271-279 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1954
LIABILITIES
£
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each £10,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL—
-3,726,025 Ordinary Shares o I £1
each, fully paid 3,726,025
4,800,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each, 12/6d. paid 4,800,000
£8,526,025
Paid-up Capita' 6,726,025
Reserve Fund (used In the business) ... 5,500,000
Final Dividend Proposed 336,301
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 371,451
Total Shareholders’ Funds ... 12,933,777
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other
Liabilities (including Provisions for
Contingencies) 239,849,853
Notes in Circulation 47,479
Balances Due to Other Banks ... 189,779
The Queensland National Bank
Limited (in Voluntary Liquidation) ... 116,178
253,137,066
Liabilities under Letters of Credit,
Guarantees, Forward Exchange
Contracts, etc 18,088,093
£271,225,159
' ASSETS
£
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers 12,449,555
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks 3,960,668
Balances with and due from Other -
Banks 729,508
Treasury Bills
(i) Australian Government ... 3,500,000
(ii) Other Government 622,565
Public Securities ( at or under market
value)
(i) Australian Govt. Securities 10,410,220
(ii) Other Govt. Securities ... 1,464,645
(iii) Local and Semi-Governmental
Authorities’ Securities ... 571,557
Special Account with Common-
wealth Bank of Australia ... 47,737,000
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 18,229,193
99,674,911
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted ( after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful) ... 145,920,338
Furniture and Sites
(at cost less amounts written off) ... 4,029,036
Shares in wholly owned Subsidiary
Company (at cost) (The Company
has made neither profit nor loss) ... 2,000
All Other Assets 3,510,781
253,137,066
Liabilities of Customers under
Letters of Credit, Guarantees,
Forward Exchange Contracts,
etc.— as per contra 18,088,093
£271,225,159
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR YEAR'ENDED 30th SEPTEMBER, 1954
fd
f
(The figures in the foregoing Statements are in Australian currency adjusted to the nearest Pound)
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on the books at the Head Office
and with the certified returns from the branches. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and Profit and
Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs and of the results of the business of the Company for the year according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A. (AUST.)\
Melbourne. 29th October. 1954. SHERRARD WARNOCK, F.C.A. (AUST.)/Auditors.
three years has fallen instead of
rising;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. 1,900,007 1,900,007 1,900,007
Reserves . . 200,000 400,000 450,000
Contingency 155.002 155,002 155,002
Investment
fluctuation 33,949 33,949 33,949
P. &1. a/c 109,955 113,171 117,515
Mortgage.. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors and
, tax prov’n 948.922 827,471 830,452
Due subsid. 49,095 125,741 142,742
Mine, plant,
steamer. . 1,582,184 1,487,113 1,407,244
Shares in
subsidiary 310,000 310,000 310,000
Consols and
shares 450,430 450,480 551,590
Debtors, de-
posits, cash 838,668 1,104,907 1,165,115
Stocks and
stores .. 315,650 352,892 295,718
An intriguing item among those
figures is “debtors, deposits and
cash in hand,” which rose by
£60,208 last year to £1,165,115.
It has more than doubled over
the past three years. Another
omnibus item, on the other side
of the balance-sheet, is “sundry
creditors and provision for taxa-
tion”—showing little variation
at £830,452. The co.’s holding
of Government stock and other
investments rose by £101,161
last term, reaching £551,590.
Obviously the financial position
is extremely comfortable, not-
withstanding the capital expen-
diture out of revenue.
N. S. Wales output of coal is
at a higher rate this term than
last, and, provided there are no
industrial stoppages, J. and A.
Brown should have a busier
year, even though it has discon-
tinued opencut-mining. At par
on the market, the co.’s scrip
yields 8 p.c. on the basis of the
present div., and prospects are
interesting. Given stable gov-
ernment in the Federal sphere,
shareholders should later on
benefit from the present exten-
sive improvements to the work-
ing assets.
Oil Search
With the sidetracking hole in
Omati No, 1 well now within
348 ft. of the horizon (13,743 ft.)
where a fierce gas-pressure was
encountered in the original hole
(it caused the sides of the hole to
cave-in and trapped the bit and
portion of the drill-pipe), there
has been a ripple of excitement
in Oil Search scrip, which
firmed from 16s. to 235. 6d.,
then slipped back to 21s. 9d.
The footage drilled in the past
month was 281 ft., compared with
146 ft. in the preceding four
weeks. Provided no hitches
occur in this very delicate opera-
tion of drilling round a dogleg,
the gas horizon should be
reached by about the end of
1954, and, assuming that the
sides of the hole can bfe held, the
surface - control equipment
through which Australasian
Petroleum is drilling should look
after the gas-pressure. Whether
there is oil with the gas will then
be decided.
Omati No. 2 has been cleared
of the stuck drill-pipe at 7500 ft.,
and the casing is being re-run.
The Papuan mudstone, or
“heaving shale,” is making dril-
ling unusually difficult, especially
at the great depth reached in
Omati No. 1. It is one of the
special problems of the area,
making it difficult to keep the
hole open. But should com-
mercial oil be struck anywhere
in the area, it is almost certain
that the heaving-shale problem
will be coped with.
A new drilling-site on the
Aramia River, 25 miles north of
the Fly River, is being prepared,
and drilling is expected tq start
early in 1955.
Oil Search, Ltd., with a 10 p.c.
interest in Australasian
Petroleum and Island Explora-
tion, has an issue of 8,324,206
ss. shares.
Mt. Morgan
The total quantity of material
mined and handled by Mt.
Morgan, Ltd. (Q.), during 1953-
54 was 3,795,591 tons, compared
with 3,431,369 tons in 1952-53,
representing an increase of 11
p.c. Of this tonnage, 2,878,046
tons comprised overburden de-
li veredt* to the dumps. The com-
parative figure for last year was
2,521,004 tons.
The ratio of overburden
removed to ore mined was 3.14
tons to 1, which is appreciably
higher than the average for the
whole ore-body of 1.8 to 1.
Ore treated at the two mills
totalled 824,050 tons of an aver-
age grade of 3.o2dwt. gold and
0.96 p.c. copper, being a reduc-
tion of 10,150 tons compared
with last year, but an increase
in grade of o.s7dwt. gold and
0.04 p.c. copper, which resulted
in .metals in concentrates being
higher by 14,5400 z. gold and
235 tons copper.
The increase in the gold-con-
tent is not in keeping with the
characteristic pattern of the de-
posit, in which normally the
proportion of copper to gold is
rising as mining proceeds. The
reason is that the co. en-
countered an unexpected chute
of high-grade gold on No. 6
bench. Boring shows that the
dimensions of this chute are
limited.
The effective operating time
of the smelter was reduced by
25 p.c. The blister copper pro-
duced was 5474 tons, being 763
tons lower than last year, but,
due to the higher gold-content of
concentrates smelted, the blister
contained 3050 z. more than last
year’s production. It is antici-
pated that, in addition to the
smelting of concentrates pro-
duced during the current year,
a fair proportion of the accumu-
lated stock will also be smelted.
The production of pyrites at
58,850 tons was 11,970 tons
higher than last year. Sales,
however, were 47 p.c. higher
and totalled 81,830 tons for the
period. Approximately two-
thirds of the tonnage sold has
been stockpiled at the mine. This
has been done at the request of
the British Phosphate Commis-
sioners, who act for several of
the fertiliser companies.
In April the Tariff Board held
an inquiry for the purpose of
fixing a bounty on sulphuric-
acid produced from indigenous
sulphur-bearing materials. This
followed the Commonwealth
Government’s expressed view
that Australia should be made
independent of overseas supplies
for a substantial portion of its
sulphur requirements. The re-
sult of the inquiry is not yet
known, but as soon as Govern-
ment action is taken in the
direction indicated and acid-
producers convert their plants to
provide for the utilisation of
pyrite as well as brimstone the
demand for pyrite must pro-
gressively increase.
The Tariff Board recently
heard evidence in support of
tariff - protection for copper-
producers. Although Mt. Mor-
gan has been receiving the con-
trolled price of £315 a ton for
its copper, and, notwithstanding
that the overseas price has
risen, it would feel much happier
if it were assured of protection
in the local market. At present
local consumption at about
60,000 tons a year is outstrip-
ping production by about 20,000
tons.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Just an hour and a half after stepping
from the A.N.A. Skymaster which
brought the Governor and herself and
their daughter, Mrs. Robin Byrne, and
grandson Christopher from Sydney, Lady
Brooks was at the Sedon Galleries to
open ah exhibition of paintings by Mr.
E. J. Cato, all proceeds from the sale
of which will go to the Royal Women’s
Hospital.
Lady Brooks (who was accompanied
by Miss Marion McPherson) wore a
jacket-suit of ink-blue silk-shantung and
matching hat trimmed with a pale-pmk
rose. She said she had a personal interest
in the exhibition, for not only was she
patroness of the hospital but Mr. Cato
was one of the first Victorians whom
she and her husband had met, they
having travelled to Australia in the same;
ship.
At the exhibition was Mr. Cato’s first
art-teacher, Mrs. Hugh McCubbin, and
also eagerly watching the small red tabs
being attached to many of the paintings
was the president of the Royal Women’s
Hospital, Mrs. Lytton Stephens, who is
the artist’s sister. She was accompanied
by her two daughters, Mrs. Harold Clapp
and Mrs. J. Forrest. Mr. Cato’s other
sisters, Mrs, K. Kumm and Dr. Una
Porter, were also there. Members of
the hospital committee present included
Mrs. Oswald Bowden, Mrs. W. S. Cox
and Mrs. E. Cornfoot, Others seen were *
Mrs. Robert Lane, her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. R. Lane, Mrs. F. T. Partridge,
Madame de Wolff and Professor and
Mrs. Maurice Belz.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cold winds and rain prevailing, it
seemed fitting that Douglas Cox, of
Flinders-lane, should be showing his 1955
collection of autumn and winter fashions.
Coats, suits and frocks—these last mostly
in his new mothproof-jersey—were in
warm autumn shades such as tawny-
bronze, wood-green, bracken-leaf-brown,
mist-blue, regal-crimson (the color of a
winter sunset), creme-caramel, silver-
birch, pink-copper and tobacco. Other
soft, lovely shades used were musk-pink,
candleglow-pink, crystal-beige and the
more brilliant kingfisher-blue.
Lines generally are soft, with either
set-in sleeve or with the rounded-top
look. There is also the boxy-look, with
the jacket fitted to the waist and slimming
down, but always shewing the straighter
look. In this new, straight look sleeves
and pockets are important features.
Emphasis will be on three jackets: the
reefer, the jikki (for teenagers, and just
below waist-length) and the cardigan-
jacket (for the older woman).
The more formal cocktail-frocks, bal-
lerinas and ball-gowns are made of
beautiful imported fabrics, from Miki
Sekers (England) and from Switzerland.
Features are the straight or very wide
skirt and the new and attractive bodices.
Length of day-rrocks is that of present
summer-models. A reefer-jacket which
caught the eye was made of oyster-white
velour and featured a large sailor-collar,
soft shoulders and novel split-cuffs. It
was worn with a pencil-slim skirt. A full-
length coat in crystal-beige valour had
the new tubular look. The deep-set
sleeves were made to wear up or down,
and a detachable shawl-collar of Russian-
musquash was a glamorous note. Pewter
and chalk-white jersey fashioned a long-
sleeved frock with a roll-collar and a
softly gathered skirt finished with large
patch-pockets.
Stiffened black silk taffeta, caught in
the centre with a rhinestone ornament,
was featured on the V-neckline of a black
jersey afternoon-frock which had a slim
skirt and long-sleeved bodice. Outstand-
ing was a gown of Sekers fabric in twi-
light-coral satin-brocade patterned with
rosebuds.. The fitted bodice had a wide
portrait-neckline and three-quarter push-
up sleeves. It was allied to a wide, flared
skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Inter-Stafe and country guests were
at the dinner-party which Mr. and Mrs,
W. K. Burnside gave in their Toorak
home, where tall vases of deep-cream
stocks and roses mixed with cream and
pale-gold iris were set in the drawing-
room. In the dining-room masses of
red roses provided a foil for the sheath-
frock of pale-beige guipure lace with its
sash of green-and-bronze-shot taffeta
worn by the hostess. Assisting her
parents was Mrs. David Raeburn-Brown
(who with her husband came from their
station at Rosewood, N.S.W.); she wore a
frock of anthracite-grey chiffon made
with a draped bodice and worn with a
heavy antique-silver necklace. Other
guests from Rosewood were Mr. and
Mrs, K. B. Hammond, whilst Mr. and
Mrs. W. D. Coogan came from Wagga
(N.S.W.). Attractive in a silver-grey
frock was the Lady Mayoress, who had
come with the Lord Mayor, Cr. F. P.
Selleck.
Also at the party were Sir Frank and
Lady Beaurepaire and the Chinese Con-
sul, Mr. Liu, U.S. Consul Givon Parsons
and Mrs. Parsons, she adding a scarlet
stole and tiny velvet cap to her black
frock. Mrs. Norman Strange chose a
white-spotted grey shantung frock and
matching jacket, and her white straw
pillbox-hat was pierced with a long black
quill. Mrs. Angus Jones topped her black
faille jacket-suit with a small scarlet
velvet pillbox-hat. Mrs. Dougal Donald’s
black - and - white - patterned Damascus-
silk-brocade frock was made with a wide
neckline and very full skirt. Mrs. Ham-
ley Wilson’s black-faille frock was con-
trasted with a tiny pink toque of velvet
leaves. Mrs. Guy Livingstone wore a
cocktail-frock of ice-blue crepe-romaine,
☆ ☆ ☆
Garnet Carroll, now in London, has
signed-up Sir Ralph Richardson and his
actress wife, Meriel Forbes, for a tour
of Australia early in the New Year. Dame
Sybil Thorndike, who with Sir Lewis
Casson will join the company, will play
the role of the Grand Duchess in “The
Sleeping Prince” and that of Mrs. Railton-
Bell in “Separate Tables.” These famous
people have all played together on the
London stage. Meriel Forbes is a
member of the Forbes-Robertson family,
and eagerly looking forward to meeting
her is Mrs, Keith Fairley, for Miss
Forbes was her bridesmaid.
Margaret Brown, who comes from
Long Beach, California, is appearing in
the current Tivoli show, “Zip Goes a
Million”; she is also arranging the
ballets for "La Vie Parisienne,” in which
Jean Sablon will be starred, and which
opens at the Princess Theatre on Novem-
ber 20 in the presence of the Governor
and Lady Brooks. Margaret, who com-
menced her training as a dancer with
Jos[?] Cansino (Rita Hayworth’s wide) in
Hollywood, is an excellent cook. She
like’s golf.
There is a novel tone in the invitations
sent out by a group of women arranging
a garden-party to be held at Frankston,
the home of Mrs. J, D. Hunt, on Novem-
ber 24—it contains a prediction by the
late Inigo Jones of fine, warm weather.
The party, which will include a
mannequin-parade, is in aid of St. Paul’s
Vicarage Building Fund. Afternoon-tea
will be provided, and cost is 15s. per
ticket. Among members of the com-
mittee are Mrs. D. F. Dunlop, Marea
Lucas and Anthea Cunningham.
☆ ☆ ☆
President Mrs. Herbert Brookes and
members of the executive and ball-com-
mittee of the International Club discussed
at a luncheon in the club-rooms plans for
the ball to be held in St. Kilda Town
Hall on November 26. v Various people
brought along a favorite dish known in
their former homeland. Those at the
luncheon included vice-president Mrs.
King Mouey (China), Mr. Patkin (Israeli),
Mrs. Alan Bell, Mrs. J. de Vries
(Holland), Mrs. F. Andrey (Germany)
and Nina Black (Greece).
National costumes will be worn by
many of the guests at the ball, and they
will perform dances to music of their
native lands. Several groups also —
among them Lebanese, Greek, Russian
and Israeli—will sing songs of their
various countries. Forty flags will decor-
ate the ballroom, and the tables as well
will carry national colors. The official
table will be decorated in Dutch style by
Mrs. J. de Vries (convenor for nationals
in the club), from whom ball-'tickets may
be obtained. Ring WM1523 in the even-
ing, or write to the International Club,
68 Powlett-street, East Melbourne.
This is Sydney artist Muriel Elliott, an
exhibition of whose paintings will be
opened at Sydney's Grosvenor Galleries
this afternoon ( Wednesday ). Noted for her
charm and personality, Mrs. Elliott (who
is the wife of Dr. George Elliott, of
Carlton) specialises in flower-paintings
which reflect in their bright gaiety the
freshness and color of her own outlook.
Photo by Dorothy Welding.
The late-afternoon party given by
Mr. and Mrs, Hans Joachim Meyer had
a dual purpose; as a housewarming in
their new home in Hawthorn and in
honor of the newly arrived French
Consul, M. le Bas, and his wife.
The hostess greeted her guests wearing
a frock of black taffeta, the skirt of
which featured a front floating panel and
a short matching jacket. Madame le Bas
also chose black taffeta, and pinned two
large white organza roses in the deep
neckline of the bodice.
A
Among guests were Madame Gay and
her daughter Lilliane, Cr. and Mrs, Alex
Finlay (her small pillbox-hat of black
velvet highlighted with a large red rose),
Dr, and Mrs. Cunningham Dax, Mrs.
Barry Thomson, Mrs. K. D. Fairley
(whose ice-blue velvet toque was frosted
with white veiling sparkling with jewels),
Mrs. D. McCullough (in lime-yellow
frock and wide-brimmed black hat), Mr.
A. T, Smithers, Mrs, Gordon Chirnside,
Mr. and Mrs. Jungwirth and the John
Scarboroughs.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is to be a fete at the home of
Dr. Roland Wettenhall in Toorak-road
on December 11 in aid of the Animal
Welfare League’s Lort Smith hospital for
sick animals, and the committee appeals
for help. The fete will take the form of
a bring-a-gift-buy-a-gift, and Mrs, Louis
Nelken, at whose home the first meeting
was held, is in charge of the gift-stall.
Mrs. Adrian Nelken has the cake-stall;
the children’s stall will be run by the
Raveloe Auxiliary, Mrs. E. D. Yencken
has the produce-stall, and Mrs. Fred
Brockhoff and Mrs. Bruce the flower-stall.
Mrs. Richard Linton will sell used-
records. There will be exhibitions of
Scottish dancing to music by Pipe-Major
Macpherson and his pipers. Hon. secre-
tary is Mrs. Stanley Heywood.
* * ☆
The Governor and Lady Brooks will
be on the M.V. Australia for the Red
Cross dinner-dance on November 23.
Invitations have been sent out by the
Consul-General for Italy, Signor Luca
Dainelli, and at the dance he will take
the opportunity of farewelling the many
friends he has made during his term of
office. Party will also honor the 40th
birthday of the Australian Red Cross.
Mrs. L. Read, of the Australian Red
Cross, Flinders-street, Melbourne, is •in
charge of the tickets, which are seven-
guineas each.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. R. V. Gove, wife of the newly
elected chairman of Melbourne Racing
Club, entertained a number of guests at
Caulfield on the day of the Williamstown
Cup. The hostess wore a grey-and-white-
flecked tweed suit and small grey melu-
sine hat, which had a white feather-mount
at one side. Among her guests were the
Premier’s wife, Mrs. John Cain, the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. F. Selleck, Lady Brookes,
Lady Burston, Lady Rowell, Mrs. G. R.
Davis-Goff and the Mayoress of Caul-
field, Mrs. E. M. Parton.
Smart racegoers included Mrs. L.
Greville, whose frock of jade-green silk
was patterned with white, her beige
straw picture-hat swathed with darker
beige tulle. Mrs. Frank Foley’s silk frock
was also green and patterned with white
flowers; her tiny hat was of green straw.
Mrs, Jack Steele (Hastings) chose a grey
shantung, splashed with tiny white
flower's, and her small white hat was
banded with multiflowered ribbon. Mrs.
Phyllis Nicholas chose a white linen
sheathfrock with faggoting and white
linen flowers on the rounded neckline and
pockets; her planter’s-hat of white
panama had white chiffon draping the
crowni
Mrs. John Reilly’s emerald-green straw
hat, with softly undulated brim, was
worn with a dark-grey suit. Mrs. W. B.
Faulkner gained contrast for her grey
silk-tweed suit with a large white
panama sailor-hat. Dark-grey shantung,
white-spotted, was worn with a high-
crowned white boater by Mrs. Alfred
Fowler. Mrs. Frank Donovan’s grey
silk surah, patterned in a white flower,
was topped with a black crinoline
straw-and-tulle picture-hat. The jacket
of Mrs. Geoffrey Smith’s navy suit
had a white sailor-collar ; her small navy
toque was massed in front with matching
flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Over 500 attended the seventh annual
ball of the Civil Aviation Institute held
at the Palais de Danse on Friday night.
The institute’s president, lan Perry,
assisted by Mrs. Perry, welcomed the
official guests. These included the
Director-General of Civil Aviation, Sir
Richard Williams, and Lady Williams;
his three assistant-directors-general, Cap-
tain E. C. Johnston, D. G. Anderson and
R. M, Badenach, and their wives; the
Director of Flying Operations, Air-Com-
modore A. H. Cobby, and Mrs. Cobby ;
and the vice-president of. the institute,
Mr. T. Pitcher, and Mrs. Pitcher. Pro-
ceeds will swell the funds for the Christ-
mas treat which the institute .gives to
orphaned children.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Mamie Robina, second daughter
of and Mrs. G. C. Young, of Bent-
leigh, exchanged vows at St. Mary’s,
Caulfield, with Arthur Leslie John, only
son of Mr. L. Scott, of Brighton, and the
late Mrs. Scott, she had attending her
her three sisters. The bride’s gown of white
nylon was embroidered with lily-of-the-
valfey over magnolia satin. The bodice
had a shawl-neckline and the skirt fell
to a full train. The small peaked cap
of matching materials carried pearls and
held the fingertip-length white tulle veil.
Her posy was of orchids and gardenias.
Her sisters wore full-skirted ballerina-
frocks of lemon embossed-organdie over
taffeta and small matching caps trimmed
with lily-of-the-valley. They carried
frangipani. Best man was Mr. Warren
Judd and groomsmen Mr. Ross
McKenzie and Mr. Arthur McCartney.
Reception was at Tudor Court.
☆ * *
Major James Clark, assistant U.S.
Air-Attache, and Mrs. Clark, who
return to their homeland next Wednes-
day, were guests-of-honor at a farewell
cocktail- and dinner-party given at
Chevron by Mr. and Mrs. J. D. O’Neill.
The hostess wore a cocktail-frock of
junior-navy tie-silk.
Among the 50 guests were Major
Clark’s successor, Major L. F. Donnelly,
and Mrs. Donnelly; Mr. and Mrs.
J. D. Jacobs, Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs.
W. Markley and Mr. and Mrs. W.
Killough.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
f
Consult us for
all yom
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STBUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
For Sale
COOGEE
overlooking Gordon Bay and expansive
ocean views. Comfortable family home
with tennis court, lounge and dining
rooms opening on to large enclosed front
verandah with plate glass windows, ideal
for entertaining, 4 bedrooms, sun patio,
modern tiled bathroom and kitchen, 3
toilets, laundry, tool-shed, storeroom with
shower facilities close to beach garage,
wall-to-wall carpets, blinds, curtains, hot
water service, built-in cupboards through-
out, telephone.
£9975
Apply MARSHALL MARKS & JONES,
Solicitors, 67 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
MA 2883.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL McPHEE formerly of Lithgow.
—TAKE NOTICE that MOLLIE ELLEN
McPIIEE ii.is filed a Petition for Divorce
No. IV ; of 1954 on the grounds of de-
serts a. for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th of February 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, ■ Sydney, New
South Wales.—C. A. H. HA.RMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RODERICK ALFRED VINCENT
PHILLIPS formerly of Katherine (N.T.)
and Wollongong.—TAKE NOTICE that
IVY ROSEMARY PHILLIPS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2541 of 1954 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
28th of February 1955 and obtain a copy
of. the Petition without charge from
W. D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY. 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRY STREET late of Syd-
ney New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that ESTELLE ELIZABETH STREET
has filed a Petition for 1 Divorce No. 164
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 28th February 1955 and
obtain a copy of this Petition without
charge from H. WILSHIRE WEBB, Soli-
citor, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
TO CHARLES GEORGE SPARROW,
address unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife- EDITH MARTHA SPARROW
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia on the ground that you have been
guilty of desertion for a continuous period
of three years or more If you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within forty
(40) clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence.—DATED
this Ninth day of November, 1954. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
Some like them
Some like them
Choose
’-efi
Ttuuk
h
★
Onoto Pens
Hava a larger
range of Nibs than
any other Pen in
the world.
Pens from 20/-
Sets from 40/-
Thomas Dc La Rue & Co. Ltd., London
Distributors
NORMAN BAKER & LONGHURST Pty. Ltd.
Sydney and Melbourne.
NB.2S/6.1
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Marie Collier
Marie Collier, the young Mel-
bourne soprano Who soared into
high regard during the National
Grand Opera season, showed in
her Melbourne Assembly Hall
farewell recital before going off
to Europe that she is greater as
an operatic artist than as a con-
cert singer, but that she has
potentialities for both which
could put her into the first
flight.
Gifted with a voice of the kind
that comes only once or twice in
a decade. Miss Collier sang a
panel of English songs, some of
Dvorak’s folksongs and some
Wagner. She has a lot to learn
about intonation and the Ger-
man language, bQt she showed
innate qualities which could
make her into another Melba.
Those qualities came out best
in her operatic items. Her
natural dramatic sense and her
superb tone made a brilliant
combination in Verdi’s “Pace,
pace.”
❖ * &
Bela Siki
It’s very rarely any visiting
celebrity combines so few pre-
tensions with such great technical
and interpretative skill as the
young Hungarian-born pianist
demonstrated at his first Sydney
recital.
Seldom has Bach been played
with such purity and lovely
phrasing. Siki invested the florid,
full-blooded Toccata and Fugue
in E> Major with the slightest
rhythmic touch—rather different
from The coldly mathematical
treatment it too often suffers. He
surged through the flurries of
ascending and descending
octaves, and otherwise pointed-
up the dramatic highlights of
Liszt’s B Minor Sonata, which is
not so much a sonata as a free
fantasia, a curious mixture of
lofty thoughts and vulgarity.
But the work, for all its thematic
defects, has pages of superb
drama and remains one of the
showpieces of the best-equipped
virtuosi.
The second half was given
over to the poets of the key-
board, Debussy and Chopin.
Outstanding among three pieces
from Book I of his “Images”
was Debussy’s “Homage to
Rameau,” a wonderful example
of sustained lyricism. “Reflec-
tions in the Water” was all
shimmering movement and light
and shade, and the filigree work
of Chopin’s Nocturne in B Major
was embellished with the most
delicate touches.
♦> * *
“Hamlet”
In the enactment by Peter
O’Shaughnessy and company at
the Nicholas Hall, Melbourne,
with special incidental music
composed by Dorian le
Gallienne, the difficulties of the
small stage were overcome by the
producer in a way that would
probably have surprised and
impressed Shakspeare, who had
difficulties of his own.
The settings were simple
without being austere, and the
exits and entrances unconven-
tional in the extreme, Hamlet
sometimes drawing his own
curtains and sometimes un-
burdening himself to the audi-
ence with an intimacy which was
almost embarrassing.
This didn’t seem incongruous,
however, because of the sincerity
of Peter O’Shaughnessy’s acting.
He put over the important
aspects of his message with a
dignified force which carried
conviction and with no rhetorical
tricks whatever —a difficult thing
to do with Shakspeare—and he
somehow kept it simple, and
made unusually clear what he
thought Hamlet was up to. It
was one of the most intelligible
Hamlets this commentator has
witnessed. Emotionally it was
first-class.
There was much the same
quality, relatively speaking, in
most of the others. Shirley
Smith’s timid Ophelia was an
excellent foil to a Hamlet repre-
sented as translating neurotic
yearnings for love into murder,
and Joan Harris’s Queen of
Denmark, in the great scene be-
tween her and Hamlet, rose or
sank to the occasion. Norman
Smith’s Ghost was unimpressive,
but Kevin Colebrook made
Polonius a pathetically silly
figure.
❖ *
“The Living Room”
This intensely serious piece,
put on by the Melbourne Little
Theatre at the National play-
house, is a first dramatic effort
by Graham Greene, English
writer of controversial novels.
There is nothing controversial
about the play—it simply states
a situation without offering any
solution.
Michael Dennis, middle-aged
psychiatrist, has spent his life
telling people what is the matter
with them, but he doesn’t knbw
what’s the matter with his
neurotic wife, who is terrified
that she will be deserted because
of his infatuation for a girl
pupil, and threatens to take
poison. The girl is just as
obsessed with the husband as is
the wife, but the situation be-
comes too difficult and she wants
to get out.
Her uncle, in a wheelchair
and paralysed from the waist
down, tries to give her priestly
consolation and advises her to
pray. “What for?” she asks. He
has no effective answer, and, as
there is nobody else to turn to,
it’s the bewildered girl who takes
the poison,
Greene states the problem
intensely and directly, and the
Little Theatre players took the
piece at such a tempo that they
seemed to be in emotional rags
and tatters at the end of the
evening. Wynne Pullman gave a
harrowing picture of the wife,
Beverley Dunn an even more
harrowing picture of the girl-
friend, Sydney Conabere was the
picture of impotence in the
wheelchair, and Brin Newton-
John the image of frustration in
his scientific heaven.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Artists and Models”
Freddie Bamberger comes on
stage wearing his overcoat: “Too
many actors out backstage to
leave my coat there”; Beryl
Meekin brings on her consider-
able avoirdupois and says she
came to the theatre in a taxi:
“I asked the driver ‘What’s the
damage?’ and he said ‘The back
springs and shock-absorbers’ ” ;
Alan Clive pulls his mouth wide
and down to impersonate
Edward G. Robinson: “You,
too, can have a mouth like mine
if you eat your bananas side-
ways.”
All of which is a small cross-
section of the general run of the
humor in the current bill at
Sydney Palladium. Bamberger is
lightly busy most of the evening
with a piano and a spatter of
pale-blue humor; Miss Meekin’s
good-natured fun is as ample as
her proportions; and Alan
Clive’s impersonations of such
as Gary Cooper, Hoagy
Carmichael, Clark Gable and
Phil Harris all have a touch of
individuality about them.
On the same programrrle Marie
Bryant dances with every muscle
in her body, including the soles
of her feet, which seem to arch
and flatten and hug the floor —
so hot, indeed, does Miss Bryant
make it that, when she licks her
finger and touches her thigh, she
gives every indication of sizzling.
Two other combinations of speed
and grace are the Mischells,
whose adagio act seems to
include every spinning, sliding,
slipping convolution possible,
and Lloyd Nairn, whose
dexterous juggling takes in all
manner of things, from apples
and cigar-boxes to tennis-
racquets and a lawnmower.
Peggy Mortimer sings and
fiddles, Richard Gray outs with
some popular songs and, for
decoration, a pulchritudinous
parade gets about the stage in
Miss Gipsy Rose Lee’s cast-offs.
Artbursts
Aranda Artists
Rex Battarbee is back at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, as chair-
man of the Aranda Arts Council,
with examples of the work of no
fewer than 11 Aranda artists,
including that of Cordula
Inbarndarinja, the first woman
artist of the Centre.
Albert Namatjira remains the
Old Master of the movement,
and there are no signs yet that
any of his pupils are likely to
knock him off his perch in his
lifetime —in fact, there are signs
in some of his pictures that he is
penetrating further, and that he
isn’t so completely bound by the
conventions his master taught
him as are the others,
Scfhs Oscar and Ewald come
nearest to Namatjira in catching
Nature’s accent. The eyes of the
others, keener than most white-
men’s, are still mainly concerned
with the facts. They see rocks
and trees as a geologist and a
botanist would see them, but as
the shapes are so incredibly
grotesque and the colors so
fantastic, they tend to make their
subject - matter do yeoman
service.
There is an arty-crafty touch
about the titles which is vaguely
alarming. “Nature’s Paral-
lelism,” “Decoration in Color”
and “Swirls of Time” sound a
bit too much like the modem
fashion. In opening the exhibi-
tion, Chief-Secretary Galvin
caused more alarm by suggesting
that the council should use some
of the funds held in trust to
provide scholarships for jselected
Aranda artists.
It is to be hoped that Mr,
Battarbee, who has so far acted
extremely wisely in standing be-
tween Namatjira and his white
well-wishers, will jump with both
feet on the proposal. A surer
way of destroying the abori-
gines’ inspiration couldn’t be
imagined. v
F.S.
“F.S.”: At Tye’s Gallery in
Bourke-street, Melbourne, Wil-
liam Hunter is showing an
unusual exhibition. One half of
the walls is occupied by Mr.
Hunter’s paintings and the other
half by prints of Hirosige and
other Japanese artists.
Criticism is disarmed by a
modest statement on the cata-
logue that it is, of course, evident
that the artist’s own work will
not appear to full advantage in
such brilliant company, but, the
statement adds, “The contrasts
in style will perhaps stimulate
appreciation of both Eastern and
Western art.”
That is a misunderstanding.
The differences in style between
the Victorian artist and the
Japanese are not important—in
fact, there is very little difference.
Both use paint, one oils and the
other watercolors, both put it on
with brushes, and both use
shapes that are more or less
recognisable. But, somehow or
other, Hirosige’s prints give back
much more of the delicacy,
variety and subtlety of Nature
than do Hunter’s pictures, so we
are driven to the conclusion that
the only difference between the
two lies in the quality of their
observation.
* * *z*
Current Sydney Exhibitions
Grosvenor Galleries; Flower-
paintings by Muriel Elliott;
opens today.
National Gallery: “Artists by
Artists” —portraits of artists by
themselves or other artists.
. Macquarie Galleries: 100
sketch-book drawings by Hal
Missingham, and abstracts by
Carl Plate, Frank Hinder, Margo
Lewers, Grace Crowley and
others.
Talkies
“On the Waterfront”
Marlon Brando here plays a
New York wharfie who keeps
pigeons on the top of a tene-
ment building for relaxation,
sometimes works on steamers
and, between times, works for the
president -of his union, an under-
ground Napoleon who uses fists,
guns and similar methods to
maintain his dominance of the
union.
The union-boss has a recalci-
trant member pushed off the top
of a 10-story building, and,
Marlon being present, his con-
science is awakened. It is
further awakened by the fact that'
the girl he is in love with is
the dead man’s sister, and still
further aroused by a priest
who is trying to bring Christian
principles to bear upon the
affairs of the union.
Things get even more compli-
cated when Marlon’s brother,
legal adviser to the union, gets
orders to bump-off Marlon.
Finally Marlon seeks the crown
of martyrdom by fighting the
president in front of the whole
union. In one of the bloodiest
battles ever seen upon the screen
he defeats the scoundrel and
marches the sheeplike wharfies
on to their job and freedom.
It is probably a caricature of
an actual situation, but is done
with such grim intensity that it
doesn’t seem phoney, and
Marlon Brando gives it the
benefit of some remarkable act-
ing—he seems to be acting his
own self, and never strikes a
false note.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
BY E.O. SCHLUNKE
“I T is indeed a remarkable
I thing,” Stefanik said to
| Breyley as he entertained
him with deliciously cold
beer and Rhoda’s best cake in
the formal drawing-room, while
ostensibly waiting for the eager
family’s return from an inexor-
able last-minute call, “that you
should have at one time sus-
pected Mr. Kraftmann of hiding
money away. Very remarkable
indeed.”
Stefanik stopped there with a
provocatively knowing smile, as
cunning as his leading Breyley
to imagine that it was he who
had first brought up the subject
of wealthy graziers hiding large
sums of money on their pro-
perties.
“Why is it so remarkable?”
Breyley said.
"It is remarkable,” said
Stefanik, preserving the appear-
ance of an amiable and indolent
gentleman, interested only in
idle philosophical speculation,
“because I, too, once had a good
reason to suspect that the same
gentleman had a very consider-
able sum hidden somewhere
among his sheds.”
“What was the reason?” This
time Breyley showed his sophis-
tication by asking in a blunt,
indifferent manner.
“The reason, well, I do not
wish to tell you anything which
would result in harm and loss
to my hosts; but I take it that
since you are a friend of the
family you are a man of honesty
and discretion.”
Breyley nodded emphatically.
“Well, you may have heard
that I was once involved in a
regrettable car accident with Mr.
Alec Kraftmann? Yes? Then
the matter is made more simple.
You will realise that I was un-
fortunately obliged to make a
considerable claim for damages
upon him. So it happened, after
a certain amount of negotiation,
that his father agreed to help
him pay me. Now this is the
interesting part; after this agree-
ment Mr. Kraftmann went off,
not into his office to write a
cheque as one would expect, but
into one of his farm buildings,
from which he emerged stuffing
handfuls of banknotes into his
pockets . . .”
He stopped with twinkling
eyes which seemed to say “These
scallywags of graziers; what
will they be up to next?”
“Ha,” said Breyley, visualis-
ing Kraftmann stuffing the notes
into his pockets with his big,
awkward hands, and thus
rationalising a decision that
Stefanik was “on the level,”
“you’d be surprised, I expect, if
I told you that that money really
belonged to his son and
daughters, and he’d done them
out of it?”
Stefanik chuckled with broad-
minded toleration.
“Nothing that Mr. Kraftmann
did about money would surprise
me#**
Breyley did not reply for a
minute or two. Here was a new
angle. If Kraftmann had a
really large sum of money
tucked away he could make use
of it to get himself out of a
corner with the taxation people
—or his shareholders, for that
matter. Had he lost his grip
on the situation? The sum
might, after all, be relatively
trifling. A few hundred, a
thousand or two even, would not
materially alter the situation. It
made him uneasy. Could he
find out exactly how much?
“Would you by any chance
remember which £hed it was?”
Breyley stifled a pretended
yawn.
“That I could never forget.”
Stefanik displayed a naively
eager interest. “That I could
never forget, after the beautiful
roll of new banknotes I got out
of it.”
“What did he pay you in?”
Breyley snapped, suddenly scent-
ing the breath of fiction. “Tens?
Fives? Hundreds?”
Stefanik sat back in his chair,
smiling to himself, the fingertips
of his hands coming together
gently as if trying to recall the
delicious feeling of the bank-
notes.
“Ten one - hundred - pound
notes, eighty ten-pound notes,”
Stefanik said in fond reminis-
cence.
The total rang a bell, as Brey-
ley would have said. He sat
forward eagerly, as he recalled
with his wonderful memory the
sum he had suggested to Alec
that the eight-thousand pounds
claim could be settled for. An
admiration for his own astute-
ness, that was close to worship,
came over him as he recapitu-
lated the handicaps under which
he had made the forecast: he
had never seen Stefanik; he had
never seen the smashed pictures ;
he had received no expert’s
valuation.
“I might as well confide fully
in you,” Breyley said, falling
into his professional jargon to
show his sincerity. “I have been
engaged in my capacity of
accountant by Miss Rhoda
Kraftmann to trace the disap-
pearance of the bulk of the
money entered in the family
company’s books as dividends
and restore it to its rightful
owners. Therefore it-is of vital
importance to me to discover if
Kraftmann has a secret hoard
and how much money there is
in it. If you can help me with
this your services will not be
forgotten by the family. Mind
you, I only want to count it, I
don’t want to take it away—you
can watch me all the time; in
fact, I’d want you to watch me,
so you can be a witness.”
“I could tell you where it is,”
Stefanik answered with a disap-
proving shake of the head. “But
I don’t think I should. I do not
wish to be the cause of annoy-
ing Mr. Kraftmann. He is a
man I should not wish to
anger.”
“Oh, you needn’t worry about
that,” Breyley assured him with
a suggestion of boastfulness.
“I’ll handle him. He’ll cave in
when he knows he’s beaten.
Anyhow, it might not be neces-
sary to tell him we’ve inspected
his loot. It all depends on how
much is there. Come on, now.
You said they’d be back fairly
soon. Do you think there’d still
be time?”
“There’d be time,” Stefanik
admitted, “but I still do not like
to do it. It does not seem to me
to be what you in Australia call
a ‘fair go.’ ”
“It would be a very fair go to
Rhoda,” Breyley persisted.
“She’s been good to you,- hasn’t
she? She’s been treated very
badly by her father, and it’s up
to someone to do the decent
thing by her. What about it
being you and me? Besides, I
told you before that you’d very
likely be slipped a few hundred.”
He turned screwed-up eyes on
Stefanik, as men of business do,
to convey their ever-present
consciousness that with a little
moral blanketing provided when
the receival of money is in-
volved, the end always justifies
the means.
“You shake my resolution,”
Stefanik informed him. “Miss
Rhoda has indeed been very kind
to me.”
Breyley was up instantly, pat-
ting him on the shoulder.
“That’s the idea! That’s the
idea! Come along, now.”
Stefanik half-rose from his
chair; then a spasm of doubt
shook him and he flopped back.
“Oh come on, now.” Breyley
rallied him, getting him by the
arm and helping to stand him
up again.
“I’ll come out with you,”
Stefanik conceded, “but first I
must have a look to see if the
family is coming back, and then
I must think it over again in the
open air before I decide. Per-
haps you have tricked me into
too much confiding by making
me drink too much of this
strong Australian beer.”
“Come along, come along,”
Breyley said breezily, assisting
Stefanik out of the house and
into the yard as if he only had
to keep him walking and he
would inevitably lead him to
the hiding-place.
Stefanik put on a most reluct-
ant face, and when he spoke his
words sounded sulkily resistant.
“When I tell you which shed
it is you won’t believe it.”
But Breyley chuckled good-
humoredly.
“Trust old Kraftmann to pick
an unlikely spot.”
Stefanik came to an obdurate,
leaden-legged halt, averting his
head mulishly; and only when
Breyley’s face was brought in
front of his did he appear over-
come with compassion for the
earnest young man.
“It’s that iron oats-silo. But
you won’t want to go into it.
It’s so dusty inside.”
“A bit of dust won’t worry
me if I can get a look at his
dough. Any place that’s good
enough to hold a few thousand
quid is good enough for me.”
Breyley laughed at his own
wit. He hurried forward and
fumbled inexpertly at the rugged
door-fastenings.
“Let me show you how to
open it,” Stefanik offered.
“I’ll do it.” Breyley was too
excited to suffer aid. “There,
I’ve got it.”
“Now I insist on going in
first,” Stefanik said, trying to
get to the doorway. “You might
bump into something in the
semi-darkness* and hurt your-
self.”
“No, no.” Breyley pushed
him aside, too eager to notice
that he’d caused Stefanik to
bump his head against the sharp
edge of the angle-iron that
braced the,door.
“That was all I needed,”
Stefanik told him conversation-
ally, “to make me thoroughly
enjoy doing this.”
He slammed the door, but just
before it closed it was stopped
by something hard being sud-
denly thrust between the door
and the jamb ; the heel of Brey-
ley’s shoe. The next moment
the door came flying open again
and Breyley’s indignant face
emerged.
“What sort of a dirty trick
was that! ” he demanded. “Were
you trying to lock me in there?”
Stefanik’s hands and his eye-
brows went up, and his ynouth
formed an enormous O of
astonishment.
“Oh, Mr. Breyley, oh no! Oh
no! It was but the wind that
blew it just as I was about to
follow you in.”
Breyley scowled at him in
sardonic disbelief. There was no
wind blowing whatever. “Just
a sudden gust of what you call
it? A willy-willy? Yes. Then
bang went the door right in my
face.”
“Don’t waste your breath try-
ing to explain it,” Breyley ad-
vised him, “just tell me this.
Did you try to do that of your
own accord or did old Kraft-
mann put you up to it?”
"“Oh, Mr. Breyley, you do a
great injustice to a hospitable
gentleman. I swear to you that
Mr. Kraftmann knew nothing
whatever about the matter.”
With a superb histrionic effort
he was able to convince Breyley
that in this at least he was speak-
ing the truth. He was encouraged
to further effort,
“Now, Mr. Breyley,” he said,
laughing with great affability,
“I will have to confess to you
the very truth - of the matter. It
is just that I wish to be no longer
a ‘New Australian’ but a ‘Real
Australian.’ Always they tell me
that the real Australians love a
joke—a perractical joke. ‘Once
you have successfully played a
good perractical joke on an Old
Australian,’ they all tell me, ‘then
you are ready to be classed as a
true Australian.’”
He stopped and eyed Breyley
calculatingly. .
“So you thought it would be
a nice practical joke to shut me
in the silo,” Breyley said fiercely,
with a minimum of credulity.
“All I can say is that if you try
any more of that sort of joke on
Old Australians you wont five
long enough to Y our
naturalisation-papers.
All the jollity went out of
Stefanik’s face; his mouth
turned down, his jaw sagged, nis
(.Continued on page 22)
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments : —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law.
Breyley.—Town accountant;
overconfident; has gat to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Hopes through her to get control
of Kraftmann’s business.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter ; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
(“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony’’). In Sydney she
has become “citified” and is hav-
ing some success rmining stage-
and singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than ajittle interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Stefanik. —A New Australian
dealer in “Old Masters,” has
sued Alec for paintings
destroyed in a car-collision.
Kraftmann has locked Alec and
Stefanik in the silo to settle the
matter, and they have agreed that
Stefanik shall have free lodg-
ings on the property and
materials supplied until he has
painted some more “Old
Masters.”
Breyley has prevailed upon
Rhoda, who thinks he wants to
marry her, to bring the account-
books of her father’s family-
compan) to his lodgings. Brey-
ley then tells Kraftmann that he
has been withholding the divi-
dends of the rest of the family,
and threatens him with disclo-
sure. Rhoda asks Breyley for
the return of her father’s
account-books.
He refuses, and leaves for
Sydney to get Viki’s help towards
controlling t h e company.
Stefanik, Johnny and the young
Kraftmanns concoct a letter
from Kraftmann to lure Breyley
hack. Meanwhile Breyley has
become dazzled by the prospects
of Viki’s singing-business.
But his introduction of
efficiency-methods and high-
pressure advertising puts the
academy into a turmoil. Viki
departs with her singing-maestro,
to soothe his ruffled feelings.
Breyley flies back to Jindulla,
where, on Kraftmann’s farm,
Stefanik and Johnny plot to
lasso him and put him in the
silo. Stefanik will then fire a
gun to bring the family, out
inspecting the property, back to
deal with Breyley.


Labour saving - money saving tools
7 in 1 Fencing Pliers
Tins tool has a terrific grip and is extremely
strong. 7 tools in 1. Staple puller . . . wrench
. . . wire stretcher . . . wire cutter . . . pincers
. . . wire tier . . . pipe grip. You can do a
better fencing job in less time with this power-
ful tool. It drives, pulls or straightens staples.
Cuts, stretches and ties fencing wire and
barbed wire. Protects your hands from the
barbs when stringing barbed wire.
Made of the highest quality forged tool steel.
Has enormous strength and leverage. 12ins.
in length. Send today for a pair of super fenc-
ing pliers and save time and money on your
fencing. Price £l/15/-, post free.
Pipe Stocks and Dies
Set of stocks and dies for threading Jin., Jin.
and lin. pipe . . . very strongly made . . . fast
cutting . . . perfect thread . . . easy to operate.
The complete set includes stocks, iin. die, Jin.
die, lin. die and bushings. The bushings en-
sure that the thread is screwed on in perfect
alignment with the pipe. Price £7/2/6, p. free.
ENGINE TYRE PUMP
fd
Why pump
tyres by
hand?
Let your
engine do
the work
For only £3/18/6 you can get an engine tyre
pump that will inflate tyres in approximately
two minutes. Easy to use, simply remove a
spark plug from engine and screw engine
pump into plug holes. Start motor and your
tyres are inflated with ease. Can be used on
any make of car, truck or tractor. Engine
pump and 15ft. of hose. Guaranteed for two
years. Only £3/18/6, post free. Please state
make and year of your vehicle. Money back
guarantee.
Windscreen Demister
Fit a windscreen demister and enjoy safer
driving. Prevents windscreen fogging. Keeps
vision perfectly clear so that you can relax and
drive in comfort. Operates from car battery.
Low battery consumption. Draws only 3 amps.
Easily fitted. No holes to drill. Suction cups
hold it firmly against windscreen. These de-
misters are strongly made, have an attractive
appearance and they are guaranteed for two
years. Supplied complete with switch and flex.
Only 50/-, post free . Please state if 6 or 12
volt model is required. Money back guarantee.
Block
N
Buster
Makes splitting blocks easy. This powerful
tool will split tough or curly grained hardwood
that an axe would fail to split. Its wedge-
shaped blade splits the wood without sticking
or jamming. It won’t jam in the wood like an
axe. Save time and energy with a block buster.
Makes your work easier on the wood heap.
Fitted with a genuine American hickory
handle. Weighs 6«b. Price £2/3/-, forward on
rail. Please state your nearest railway station.
Engine Stethoscope
Locates and diagnoses engine faults by sound.
Amplifies sound 50 times. Indicates piston
slap, faulty valves, bearing knocks, broken and
worn ball bearings, faulty gaskets, worn gears,
water pump faults, frozen shackles, body
squeaks, worn bearings and brushes in gener-
ators, starters, and electric motors, etc. Will
locate faults in any machine having moving
parts. Simple to operate. Price £3/15/6, post free.
Screwdriver Set
Ingenious new screwdriver set. Does the work
of five screwdrivers. Set includes five screw-
driver Wades of different widths any of which
may be quickly inserted in the unbreakable
handle. Blade automatically locks in the handle.
Can be used on ordinary slotted head screws
and recessed screws. Suitable for any size and
type of screw head up to Jin. diameter. Indis-
pensable for motorists and mechanics. Very
strong and compact. Supplied complete with
wallet. Price £l/6/6, post free.
Brake Re-lining Tools
Set of four tools, comprising chisel for cutting
head of old rivet, punch for removing old rivet,
punch for driving in new rivet, and a counter-
sinking punch. These tools are specially de-
signed for brake re-lining. They do a first
class Job quickly and easily. Complete set, in-
cluding leather case. Price £l/17/6 post free.
The accessories and tools advertised are
quality lines that will give you BIG
savings. Efficient after sales service.
Read the service you are guaranteed:—
Every accessory and tool is guaran-
teed for two years.
★ Spare parts available for all acces-
sories and tools.
Written money refund guarantee
supplied with every order.
Magnetic
Trouble
Lamp
91
Powerful magnet holds lamp to any part of car
body, engine or chassis. Just the lamp for
night breakdowns or changing tyres in the
dark. Works off car battery. Won’t scratch
bodywork. Supplied complete with flex and
battery clips. Price £l/15/-, post free. Please
advise voltage required.
Sensational Car Sponge
Connects to any garden hose. Water flows
through the sponge, thus washing dirt away
and keeping the sponge clean all the time.
Wash your car the quick, easy way. Simply
wipe car with sponge. Gives clean and shiny
finish. It’s so labour saving. No drying or
polishing required after washing. This fine
quality sponge will never scratch your car.
Send today for your car sponge and enjoy the
pleasure of this improved method of car wash-
ing. Can also used for washing windows
and paintwork on your home. Price £l/6/-
post free.
CD
C 3
a
C 3
ax
CD
a
23
C 3
23
C 3
ca
C 3
23
Small
Parts
Cabinet
16 drawer all-steel cabinet for storing small
parts, tools, nails, screws, bolts, etc, Bach
drawer is x x sJln. in size. Will
bold parts or tools up to sJin. in length.
Identification cards can be fitted on each
drawer. Strongly made and most useful. Attrac-
tive appearance and finished in baked enamel.
Keeps your workshop tidy. Saves time search-
ing for lost parts, etc. Ideal for motorists,
mechanics, hobbyworkers, garages, shops, etc.
Price £3/15/-, post free.
Pinking Shears
Very useful for sewing. Gives your dressmak-
ing that professional look. Best quality im-
ported pinking shears. 7Jln. in length. A most
useful present for Mother. A gift that will
delight her. Price £2/15/-, post free.
PAINT YOUR 7 n/
CAR FOR ONLY / U/-
with Sapphire factory finish type car enamel
No Brushing-No Spraying-No Brushmarks
One Hour to Apply-One Hour to Dry
A
Makes old or modern cars gleam like new!
Get brilliant, glossy finish that equals spray job
You can now quickly and easily paint
your car with this amazing enamel. No
previous car-painting experience re-
quired. Anyone can apply it and make
a first-class paint job.
Sapphire dries to a hard weather-
proof finish that retains its non-fading
full gloss brilliance longer than any
other enamel.
You get a beautiful smooth high
lustre finish that will truly delight you.
It’s so easy to use. Simply clean old
polish and grime off car and wipe on
Sapphire with the special applicator that
we give you FREE. Dries in one hour
without a brushmark, lapmark or
streak. High gloss showroom finish.
Will paint over any other enamel or
lacquer. One coat covers any other
colour, even a different colour. No
need to strip old paintwork. No under-
coat required.
Here’s proof that Sapphire will paint
your car with a finish that will equal
expensive spray paint jobs. Call in for
a FREE demonstration, and YOU can
try Sapphire on your OWN car. No
obligation to purchase unless you’re
completely satisfied with your Sapphire
trial.
If unable to call, send 70/- for a tin
of this super enamel. Try it on your
car at our risk. You get a two years’
guarantee of satisfaction. Sapphire
enamel is guaranteed not to crack, fade,
chip or peel for two years. Your money
refunded without question if Sapphire
does not live up to this guarantee.
Sold only by Pacify Auto Supplies,
sole distributors for Sapphire Enamel.
Send now for a quart of Sapphire
Enamel, special applicator and instruc-
tions, price 70/-, post free. We pay
postage to any part of the Common-
wealth or overseas. (One quart paints
a car.) Sapphire will save you £££’s.
Will not leave a single brushmark. Mark
your colour choice on coupon below.
Send today for this wonderful enamel.
28
BEAUTIFUL
COLOURS
White
Off white
Ivory
Cream
Light cream
Rich cream
Light stone
Mid-stone
Fawn
Pastel green
Light green
Lawn green
Dark green
Grey green
Dove grey
Dark grey
Mail red
Cherry red
Russet red
Dark maroon
Maroon
Chocolate
Sky blue
Light blue
Royal blue
Navy blue
Yellow
Black
fd
DRILLING
MACHINE
Drills holes up to half an inch in
diameter in metal, wood, plastics,
etc. Accurate and fast drilling.
Hand operated. No motor re-
quired. A most useful tool for
your workshop. Can be mounted
on to any bench or table.
Very convenient for quick repairs.
Is much quicker and more accu-
rate than breast or hand drills.
Work can be drilled in the vice
supplied, or the vice can be re-
moved for drilling big Jobs. See
illustration. This machine is-
strongly made, and it’s guaran-
teed for two years. Just the
tool for motorists, mechanics,
farmers, hobby men, etc. Drill-
ing machine complete with FREE
vice and 10 twist drills. Price
£lO/10/-, forward on rail. Please
mention nearest railway station.
Money back guarantee.
Electric
Engraver
Operates from any
6 or 12 volt bat-
tery. Low battery
consumption. En-
graves on all metals.
Engrave your name
on your own tools
for your protection
against theft. Also
engraves, name or
fancy designs on
cigarette cases,
silverware, brooches,
metal tags, etc. No
skill required to
operate. Price 50/-,
post free. Money
back guarantee.
Neon Ignition Tinier
Amazing new instrument times ignition with
perfect accuracy. It is difficult to obtain accu-
rate adjustment when an engine is stationary.
The great advantage of a neon timer is that it
will time the ignition whilst the engine is run-
ning. This means perfect synchronisation and
greater efficiency. Precision timing will in-
crease engine pulling power and save petrol.
Get peak performance with your car. Com-
plete instructions are supplied with the neon
timer. Price £4/10/-, post free.
Spark Plugs
SPECIAL OFFER: |in. diameter thread spark
plugs. Price, 4 for 12/-, 6 for 16/-, or 8 for £l,
post free. Minimum order is 4 plugs. We pay
postage to your address. They are brand new
plugs made by a world famous manufacturer.
We bought a huge quantity at the right price.
Therefore, we can sell them at rock bottom
price. Please measure the diameter of your
plug before ordering. Only Jin. plugs can be
suppliejd. . Owing to the remarkably low price
of the plugs we cannot accept orders for less
than 4 plugs. Send today for this great bargain.
Do Your Own Panel
Beating and Save £££'s
Improve the appearance of your car. Increase
the value of your car. Remove dents the easy
way. You can panel beat your car for a fraction
of the cost of sending it out for body repairs.
Restore bodywork to its original condition.
f
d
fd
This high grade panel beating kit will repair
damaged mudguards, doors, bodywork, etc.
It’s so easy to use. Anyone can operate the
kit. The instruction book supplied shows you
the quick, easy way to panel beat.
These tools are made of the best quality forged
steel, and are fully guaranteed for two years.
The price of this panel beating kit and instruc-
tions is only £4/10/-, post free. Send for your
kit TODAY and save money. Money back
guarantee.
HI-POWER
Sealed Beam Spotlight
High class spotlight fitted with a
Sin. sealed beam unit made in
U.S.A.
Powerful as a car
headlight. It’s beau-
tifully made, and so
robust it will last
for years and years.
Has BIG 30 watt
filament.
Indispensable for
motorists, taxi-
drivers, hauliers,
and farmers. Ideal
for fishing and
shooting.
This superior spot-
light is supplied
complete with flex
and battery clips
for connecting to
your car battery.
Price £4/19/6, post
free. Kindly state
whether you prefer
a 6 volt or 12 volt
model. Money back
guarantee.
f
HIGH-PRESSURE
GREASE GUNS
An extremely powerful lever type grease gun
for cars, trucks, tractors and machinery. The
gun exerts a pressure of 7,5001 b. Yes, it forces
grease into the nipples at a pressure of over
3 tons per square inch. This means that the
grease is definitely forced into every part of
a bearing.
It is far more powerful than the ordinary type
of car grease gun. Soft, medium, and heavy
greases and oils can be used. This rugged
heavy duty grease gun is 18in. in length, and
it’s guaranteed for two years. Price £4/10/-,
post free. Money back guarantee.
POST COUPON NOW!
'rnmmmmmm M h_ M M
PACIFIC AUTO SUPPLIES,
47 McLeod Boad, Carruin, Victoria.
Enclosed is
Please send immediate delivery the fol-
lowing items: —
BU.ll
Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS
Name ....
Address


eyes turned haggard, his arm
hung depressedly.
“So it is not true,” he ex-
claimed, outraged. “I have been
deceived too much. All lies, all
lies they tell me. Now truly I
am sunken.”
He began to walk back to-
wards the homestead.
“We shall go and have some
more beer.”
Breyley followed him at a
safe distance, eyes alert for a
booby-trap. They had gone
most of the way when Stefanik
stopped and shook his fist at a
hawk that was a mere speck in
the distant sky. “You wicked
bird,” he addressed it feelingly,
“I know what you want. You
are after Miss Rhpda’s baby
turkeys.”
He turned to address Breyley.
“Miss Rhoda is always mak-
ing more and more money. As
if her father didn’t have enough
to give her she must always
make still more. Now it is
growing turkeys. She makes me
promise that while she is away
I will not allow the crows or
hawks to eat her turkey
chickens ; so I must go and make
a noise for them. Excuse me
but one minute.”
He hurried into a room at the
back of the house and came out
with a .303 rifle. He fired it in
the general direction of the
hawk and returned to Breyley,
rifle over arm. Breyley’s dis-
comfort surprised him:
“No, no; do not worry, Mr.
Breyley. Only one man on this
place shoots people. That is
Mr. Kraftmann, He is not here,
yet. Though I think he may
arrive soon.”
They continued on towards
the front entrance.
Johnny appeared, racing
wildly, his eyes and mind so
fixed on the silo that he didn’t
notice the others until he had
almost run into them. With
rustic cunning he instantly
flipped behind his back the coil
of rope he had been swinging
and edged towards Breyley with
a show of deliberate unconcern
that to a wily and suspicious
character like Breyley was like a
shouted warning.
Breyley, with a resourcefulness
unexpected in a townsman,
backed into a large may-bush,
pressing in so far that it was
impossible for a rope to drop
over him.
“What do you think you’re up
to?” He addressed Johnny as
though he were an extremely
menacing character.
“Just having a little joke with
you,” Johnny said with an em-
barrassed laugh, adding patron-
isingly, as he recovered his
poise, “You don’t need to be
afraid of me. I wouldn’t hurt a
little bloke like you.”
He winked at Stefanik so
vigorously that Breyley could
see all the other side of his face
twitch.
“I think I’ve had enough little
jokes for today,” Breyley said,
shooting a quick suspicious
glance at Stefanik and still
pressing into the may-bush.
Stefanik laughed light-
heartedly.
“How unfortunate for you,
Mr. Breyley,” he said with mild,
good-humored pity in his voice,
“that you should have arrived
here without knowing that I had
persuaded the Kraftmanns to-
day to celebrate St. Stanislaus’
Day. St, Stanislaus, you may not
know, is the saint of practical-
jokers, very popular in old
Bohemia. It is like your April
Fool’s Day somewhat.”
Johnny’s eyes shone with ad-
miration of Stefanik’s brilliance,
but Breyley was not impressed.
“When is the family coming
back?” he asked sourly.
“Very soon, very soon. We
will go inside and await them
at our ease, meanwhile taking a
little more of that excellent
Riverina beer that comes from
Melbourne.”
He led the way, chattering
back in his deep, hospitable
voice. Breyley followed him
reluctantly, watching to left and
to right and particularly behind,
where Johnny followed with his
rope. Into the front door
Johnny came, too, though Brey-
ley slammed it in his face, and
into the holy-of-holies lounge-
room, rough working-boots and
all.
- There he sat forward so that
h e could spring up quickly be-
tween Breylev and the door
even refusing a glass of beer
i est he be caught off guard ’
’
CHAPTER XVII
r _ iro e ... , ,
family had a good look
at the’fence while Kraft-
manEJ to * d tbem ad a hout it.
“Three - foot - six, one-and-a-
quarter-inch mesh, heavy-gauge,
galvanised-after-weaving wire-
netting the best procurable;
hy e number-eight galvanised
wires. Everybody else would
be satisfied with four number-
ten gauge. One ten-inch iron-
bark-post to every three steel-
posts ; a strainer-post every hun-
dred yards ; and two strands of
barbed-wire. Sheep-proof,
cattle - proof, rabbit - proof,
damn’ near man-proof. Here,
Mother, you try to climb through
it; I’ll buy you a new hat if you
do it.”
So he went on, while they
gazed at it marching up and
down the rolling yellow-ripe
grassy slopes; straight, taut and
defiant. Even when they turned
to the dark blue-green, tree-
covered hills to relieve their eyes
he went on about it.
“Cost three hundred pounds
a mile and worth it, though your
grandfather put them up for
eighty pounds. Worth it for
the trouble it saves you; for
the income-tax it saves you.”
Then the gun went off.
“I think I ought to tell you
something,” Alec said to his
father on the way home. “I
expect there will be a visitor at
the homestead.”
He could hear his mother and
sister, in the back of the car,
draw in their breaths sharply,
and he could imagine them tense
in their seats until they saw how
Kraftmann was going to take it.
He turned on Alec, his bristly
eyebrows working up and down
and his eyes sharp with, sus-
picion. Then he suddenly swung
to the startled women.
“What’s been going on here?
Didn’t you want to see the fence,
after all? Always interested in
anything except the one thing
that provides your bread-and-
butter!”
“You’ll approve of this,” Alec
hAiried t<f tell him, “as soon as
I explain who it is, and why
we’ve invited him. The fact is
that Breyley has been a menace ;
threatening to play hell with the
company; trying to get either
Viki or Rhoda to go in with him
to do you out of a lot of money,
We decided the safest thing was
to get him out here where we
could talk to him on our own
ground.” *
Kraftmann bumped his large,
sturdy body against the sides and
ro °f °f the car.
“All this going on behind my
back. What’s the meaning of
it? I’m the one who should be
dealing with him.”
“You’ll have plenty of oppor-
tunity to do that,” Alec in-
formed him. “Did you hear that
rifle-shot? That was the signal
that Stefanik has him safely shut
in the silo.”
“The silo!” Kraftmann ex-
claimed in astonishment slowly
changing to delighted approval,
“The silo!” gasped Mrs.
Kraftmann and Rhoda.
“Now I’ve got that scoundrel
where I can deal with him.”
Kraftmann leaned forward to
make the car go faster.
“I really must say it,” Mrs.
Kraftmann said with a half-
defiant, conscience - supported
courage, “that whatever you
may think, Alfred, I think it’s
wrong to shut people up in silos
to make them do what you want
them to do. And I’m surprised
at you, Alec; you were shut in
last time. You ought to know
what it feels like.”
“I know it, all right,” Alec
assured her, “That’s why I
thought it would be good for
Breyley. I didn’t want to be
looking for a job while he took
control of the property.”
“It could never come to that,”
Kraftmann roared, indignant at
the slight. “No one could ever
take it from me.”
Alec put on his you-may-
shout - me - down-now-but-time-
will-tell-if-Fm-right expression:
“Breyley will tell you how he
can do it.”
“I’ll break his neck.” There
were sounds of crunching bones
in Kraftmann’s voice. “I’ll
change his mind for him if I
have to half-kill him.”
“You should remember,” Alec
admonished his father in a
wryly satirical voice, “that your
daughter loves the man.”
“I don’t! I don’t!” Rhoda
protested. “Not if he’s been
seeing Viki.”
“Be calm, my child,” her
mother said in her protective
way. “It will all come out in
the open soon. We may find
that Gregory has come back to
repent the harm he’s done and
to promise that he’ll never do
anything mean for the sake of
money again. It could very well
happen ; I’ve been praying for
it.”
By that time they had arrived
back at the homestead. A brief
but spectacular hail by Johnny
at the front door before he shot
inside again with his rope
decided them against driving
straight to the silo.
“Whatls this? What’s this?”
Kraftmann demanded, sus-
picious of more mysteries.
“They must have him shut-up
in some part of the house,” Alec
said. He and Kraftmann
hurried in through the front
door, neglecting for once the
inflexible rule that the car must
always be put away in its garage
first.
They found Breyley sulkily
consuming beer and listening to
light conversation from Stefanik.
Johnny, on guard with his
lasso, was the only indication
that it was not a friendly visit.
Kraftmann hastened to alter
that. Too intent on placing his
men so that all doors and win-
dows were guarded, he abstained
from greeting Breyley even with
a nod. When he was ready he
said harshly:
“We’ve got you where we
want you. What are you going
to do about it?”
Breyley watched him closely,
his hard grey eyes a blend of
wonder, anger and contempt.
“I was led to believe by a
message from you,” he said in
his severest businessman tones,
“that you were prepared to come
to terms with me over the affairs
of your company.”
“You don’t need to be afraid of me — I wouldn’t hurt a little bloke like you.”
Kraftmann inhaled for a pro-
digious denial, but a burst of
laughter from Johnny inter-
rupted him.
“Gee, didn’t we fool you
nicely! Alec and me and Mr.
Stefanik made up that note and
Mr. Stefanik signed it.” Then
he added, to keep Rhoda’s repu-
tation immaculate, “Rhoda
never knew a thing about it, even
though it had her name on it.”
“The main thing,” Kraftmann
said, “is that we’ve got him here.”
He gave Breyley a minute to
realise that he had been in-
veigled into an awkward situa-
tion. Then he said with a good
deal of pompous authority;
“The boot is on the other foot,
you see. We’re not coming to
terms with you; it’s you who
are coming to terms with me.”
“You can’t threaten me!”
Breyley’s voice rose as he saw
that he was being held by force.
“I know all about you. I’ve got
all your account-books; your
banker has supplied me with all
the information I asked for.”
Kraftmann started back in
astonishment. Alec interposed
quickly.
He fooled Rhoda into letting
™ Se t me D( S • ec l am ’
then he wouldn t give them
back. 1 hat s one oi the reasons
why decided to get him
hem. .
Kraftmann stared from Alec
to Breyley and bade, his eyes
Judging with the enormity of it.
‘‘R hoda! . he exclaimed, out-
ragedand incredulous then he
tur °f d . to „ c ‘ You dld
right thing. It was t e most
emphatic commendation Alec
had ever had. Then he swung
on Breyley, hands working, face
contorted as if nothing would
satisfy his rage but extreme
physical violence.,
y° u bastard he said. I
don * know what I could do to
y°u- ’
Into the tense pause that fol-
lowed Stefanik waved a piece of
paper on which he had been
wr^ br JS-
A unpleasantness would be
avoided, he said in a smooth
diplomatic tone which suggested
{bat anyone who disagreed with
bun would be no gentleman, if
Mr. Breyley would sign mis
small statement. 1 snail read it
to him;
"I, Gregory Breyley, Char-
tered Accountant, of View-street,
Jindulla, N.S.W., hereby declare
that I have examined all the
books and documents relating to
the affairs of the Kraftmann
Pastoral Company, and I hereby
declare that they contain a true
statement of the company’s posi-
tion, and I also declare that the
company is being conducted in
an honest and capable manner
by its Managing Director, Alfred
Kraftmann, Esq.
Signed on behalf of Folio and
Sons, Public Accountants, of
Jindulla, by G. U. Breyley,
Accredited Accountant.”
Tohnnv regarded stefanik with
v r ,ft m onn dnwlv
coo ied down to an anoearance of
- , A i. c
t° t ch e d dolXfuhv Thev aU
stare( j at »revlev
t
Do you think 1 d sign mat.
h e said with school boyish con-
tempt -
Very deliberately Kraftmann
to °k a seat opposite and close
to Breyley and leaned forward
*9 battle it out, obviously de-
cided that Stefanik had the right
idea, and that it was only a
matter of putting on sufficient
pressure.
“You’d better sign it. It’s a
true statement,” Kraftmann
said. Breyley smiled his derision,
“It’s true,” he said sneeringly,
“apart from the fact that it


•UW %. ” "' s,
' ‘ 1,. |&- Tl
vr<
□
,v/l^
jftr*
4-/W
In .
,*V
-/-,\i<-_; - __
Patent Pending.
From field to stack in
one smooth operation!
with the new
LOADER/STACKER
It's only a few minutes work to couple up
the loader/stacker to your truck or trailer
tray. The guides of the loader being near
the driver's window make it a simple
matter to steer right up to the bale for
clean, fast pick-up at 5 or 6 miles per hour
. . . bales don't have to be exactly head-on,
you can guide them in from any angle.
IVv
MIDDLE (FIG. 1)
IN BETWEKN S ,
(FIG.' 3> J&i
f %
FRONT EDGE (FIG. 2)
. :<■:
mm:
m
■ i
There's no delay once the truck is fully loaded. Just
carry right on to the stack site without even stopping.
Once there just switch the Mobilco Loader/Stacker into
reverse and off it goes lifting the bales to the stack, the
pivoted elevator allows you to unload at right angles to
the truck into the centre of the stack (Fig. 1) ... to the
front edge of the stack (Fig. 2) ... or any intermediate
position (Fig. 3), thus saving man effort in carrying bales
to different positions on the stack. Yes, it's one smooth
continuous time and money-saving operation with a
Mobilco yours for cash or on terms. Post the coupon
for colour folder «nd fuller details.
%
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE - - - - PHONE:-J.F 4209
TELEGRAMS MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE - - 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
PHONE WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA; CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
(Post it today)
Send me today full particulars of your
Mobilco LoadeiVStacker,
Name
Address
doesn’t mention that you’ve been
embezzling the bulk of the share-
holders’ dividends for years.”
“I didn’t embezzle it,” Kraft-
mann declared, surprisingly
patient now that he had a clear
objective. “I put the money
back into the property for them
in improvements.”
“Say# you really did that,”
Breyley said sharply, more at his
ease, now that it had become an
actuarial argument in which he
considered he had an over-
whelming advantage; “say you
actually did that. Then the
position arises that all of that
money has become undistributed
profits, on which the income tax
is really terrific. Now, if any-
one put you away to the taxa-
tion people you’d be up for
from about fifty thousand
pounds in arrears and fines.”
His smug expression assured
them that any man who had got
himself into such a position
must admit that he was com-
pletely at his mercy. But Kraft-
mann merely became more
aggressive. *
“You’re wrong,” he said,
“Those are not undistributed
profits. The improvements be-
long to the shareholders, so it’s
just the same as if I’d paid it
out in dividends. I’ve got all the
receipts for the cost of the im-
provements made out in their
names in my safe. That’s some-
thing you didn’t see.”
“My God,” Breyley said,
almost awed by the audacity of
it. “You’ve thought of some-
thing that’s never been done be-
fore. But you’ll never get away
with it. They’d take you
through all the High Courts,
even to the Privy Council; and
you’d lose a fortune fighting the
case.”
“There’ll be no case,” Kraft-
man shouted. “You’re going to
sign this paper and keep your
mouth shut.”
Breyley put on the robe of
saintliness:
“You can’t make a sworn
accountant sign a statement he
knows to be untrue. We have a
high code of ethics to live up
to.”
“Don’t let him talk about
ethics,” Alec broke in angrily.
“There’s nothing ethical about
him. He .tried to persuade
Rhoda to work in with him so
that he could get possession of
the property by trickery; and
when she wouldn’t do it he shot
off to Sydney to try to get Viki
to work it with him.”,
Kraftmann sprang up with
such an angry roar that Breyley
got to his feet too and backed
towards the wall.
“You swindling thief! Rob
me, would you? You’d try to
corrupt my daughters, too! Now
I’m really going to deal with
you.”
He seized Breyley by the
arms and shook him with such
reckless violence that his head
hit against the. wall; his glasses
fell off and -were crushed under
Kraftmann’s big feet. Breyley
squirmed and twisted savagely,
he kicked Kraftmann hard on
the knee, and Kraftmann retali-
ated for that by screwing his
arms behind his back and hold-
ing him helpless in a painful
police-grip. Then, in a momen-
tary pause when he looked un-
certain what to do next, Stefanik
interjected;
“Now is the time to put him
in the silo. After a few days’
quiet meditation in the dark he
will decide to sign the paper.”
“I won’t!” Breyley shouted.
He kicked backwards, hitting
Kraftmann cunningly on the
shin. Kraftmann shook him
again; again, more-or-less acci-
dentally, bumping his head
against the wall.
“All right, into the silo he
goes. Here, Johnny, put that
lasso of yours round his neck
and pull it tight if he tries to
get away,”
In the next minute several
chairs were broken, many vases
fell off their shelves and holes
were torn in the carpet, but in
the end Breyley was induced to
go.
In Mrs. Kraftmann’s little
sitting-room Rhoda was giving
her dilute brandy to drink and
taking some neat herself. Both
lay, exhausted with nervous
strain, in their armchairs.
“He didn’t deny that he’d
been to see Viki,” Rhoda said
hopelessly.
“I’m sure he’s a thoroughly
bad person,” Mrs. Kraftmann
declared, as emphatically as she
could in her exhausted state,
“the way he defied and tried to
bully your father.”
CHAPTER XVIII
6 6 r THE next thing we’ll have
A to do,” said Kraftmann,
the only one who was eating
heartily at the tea-table that
night, “is to get back those books
from Breyley’s place. It’s up to
you to do that, Rhoda, because
you gave them to him.”
He glowered at Rhoda while
she shrank and looked to her
mother for assistance. Ap-
parently placated by her repent-
ant attitude, he went on, “To-
morrow I’ll take them to my old
lawyer friend Johnston and be-
tween us we’ll work out a way
to get us out of trouble.”
* “It would have been so much
better,” Mrs. Kraftmann said,
emboldened by an apparent
softening in her husband, “if
you had run the business so that
we couldn’t get into trouble.
Now that the children are get-
ting older they should have a
bigger share in the manage-
ment.”
Kraftmann gazed at them all,
one after the other, weighing
their worth as he would that of
stud-sheep.
“All right,” he said. “I agree
that Alec deserves more
responsibility after the way he’s
tried to straighten things out.”
“Rhoda is all right,” Alec
suggested boldly. “If she’d only
known what you were doing
she’d never have need to employ
her private detective.”
“Yes, yes,” Mrs. Kraftmann
hurried on while her husband
was getting over his astonish-
ment. “Rhoda would be a won-
derful help as long as she had a
hand in deciding what was going
to be done.”
“All right,” Kraftmann said,
with a certain amount of guile.
“Let her get the books back
again and she can do the book-
keeping in future ; that is, if she
can persuade Breyley to sign the
statement.”
He sat back, self-satisfied
without loss of dignity.
“Alec and I,” Stefanik volun-
teered gallantly, “will get back
the account-books, even if we
have to commit burglary. And
I feel sure that Johnny will help
to induce Breyley to sign.”
“I certainly will.” Johnny
looked up eagerly. “I’ve got a
couple of ideas already. It’s
going to be pretty hot in that
iron silo, with the sun shining
direct on it and the temperature
a hundred in the shade. If we
refused to give him a drink he
wouldn’t hold out long.”
But both Rhoda and her
mother protested against such
cruelty, and even Kraftmann
refrained from approval.
“Something more subtle,
Johnny,” Stefanik suggested.
“Nothing that lets him talk is
any good,” Johnny protested.
“He’d talk himself out of any-
thing. As a matter of fact I
reckoned it was a pity to take
that rope off his neck. That
would have been a way.”
“Mr. Breyley’s instructions
have always been that under no
circumstances was anything to
be interfered with in his rooms
during his absence.” This was
the landlady’s reply to the well-
thought-out approach arranged
by Alec and Stefanik overnight:
that Breyley was out on the
Kraftmann property doing a
valuation, and that he had for-
gotten to bring certain neces-
sary information contained in
certain books clearly marked as
belonging to Kraftmann which
the landlady was to deliver to
them.
They mentioned how vital the
matter really was ; how essential
it was that no time be lost, since
Mr. Breyley had flown up from
Sydney to do the job and wanted
to catch today’s plane back,
without making the slightest im-
pression on the landlady’s sun-
dried and acid-cured person. A
respectable middle-aged man
arrived, apparently a boarder ;
he greeted Alec courteously. He
was the teller from the bank
which handled the Kraftmann
accounts. He had seen the sums
of money Jhat flowed in during
the post-war prosperity years,
He had gained the impression
that the Kraftnmnns were a
most admirable family.
“Is there anything I can do
for you?” he inquired politely,
Stefanik trod hard on Alec’s
(Continued on page 27)


tu* 4
mtf**
nm
ntlAe
tfonS to
gubseß*r
f
The Commonwealth Security Loan now open
offers Australians an opportunity to provide
funds for great developmental works projects
essential to our expanding national economy.
Commonwealth Loan money is needed to
enable our Governments to meet present and
future demands for electric power, to
construct great dams and to complete
important irrigation projects, to improve and
extend our transport systems, and to build
more schools, more homes and more hospitals.
*
Every Australian will benefit from the steady
progress of public works such as these, which
can be undertaken and brought to completion
only as finance becomes available. This
finance comes mainly from the savings of the
Australian people themselves, invested in
Loans, the absolute security of which
is guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Government.
For the nation and for the individual, the
rewards of such investment are great. Your
help is needed. Lodge your subscription now.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT:
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4i%
per annum issued at par and
maturing on November 15,
1968, or
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
3%
per annum issued at
£9B/15/- per cent, and
maturing on April 15, 1957.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 2/- in each £1 of interest
increases the effective interest yield.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION is £lO for long-term and £l,OOO
for short-term Securities.
APPLICATIONS for cash subscriptions may be lodged with any
Bank, Savings Bank or Stockbroker.
CONVERSION of 3|% Maturing Securities
£63,022,680 of Australian Consolidated 3|%
Securities, issued in November, 1938, will mature
on December 15, 1954. Holders arc inVited to
convert their securities into new Bonds or Inscribed
Stock in the Loan now open.
Authorised by the Commonwealth Treasury,
COMMONWEALTH
Security LOAN
yifflOp&t
315L6.117
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —s94o.
Words of recitation called “Thunder
Jack,” the story of a cricket-match
between two American Wild West
cricket-clubs in which the wicket-
keeper shoots the umpire.—5942.
Information Sought
Names of prominent men over 70
who have retained their mental vigor
and activity — i.e., such as Winston
Churchill and Bertrand Russell ?
Only a few can be here mentioned.
Out of the past here are one or two
such men, chosen at random from
different spheres and environments:
the painter Titian, who painted his
“Battle of Lepanto” when well over
90, W. E. Gladstone, who resigned
the Prime Ministership of Great
Britain when 84, Longfellow, writing
what some consider his finest .poems
just before he died at 75, Lamarck,
in his seventies producing his 7v01.'
Natural History, Bernard Shaw
cerebrating overtime till his death
(at 95), W. M. Hughes harrying
the House of Reps till his death
at 88. In the world today are many
still-active, political, artistic, judicial
and scientific figures already well
past the Biblical span (besides
Churchill and Lord Russell). As but
one or two political examples: South
Africa’s Prime Minister Malan, retir-
ing on Nov. 30 at the age of 80, has
been in office for the past six years
(his likely successor is 72-year-old
Nicholas Havenga); West German
Chancellor Adenauer is 78; Italian
Prime Minister De Gasperi, who died
in office this year, was 73. Einstein is
75; Sibelius is still composing at 89.
Somerset Maugham, at 80, though he
has announced that he will write no
more novels, still writes in other forms
for at least three hours a day. On the
Service page (B. 20/10/’54) was listed
Australian writers and artists 70-and-
over, most of whom (Norman Lind-
say, Walter Murdoch, Hugh McCrae,
etc.) are still producing. The Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, Archbishop
Mannix, is 90. Active Australian
septuagenarians (in various fields),
again chosen at random, include Sir
Earle Page (74) and Sir John Latham
(77), who is at work on Constitutional
questions. Many businessmen and
company-directors remain in harness
when well over 70, and there seems no
reason nowadays why most people, in
exalted or humble spheres, should not
be able to keep on doing well what
they’ve been used to doing when past
the “allotted span.”
* • * •
(i) How was the present arrange-
ment of the typewriter keyboard de-
cided upon ? (2) Is there any recog-
nised advantage from this arrange-
ment ?
(1) The original type-bar machines
invented between 1867 and 1873 by
Latham Sfaoles and Carlos Glidden,
which were marketed by Reming-
ton in 1875 (the first commercially
made typewriters), all used this
arrangement of the keyboard, now
known as the “universal” keyboard.
(2) The grouping used in all English
typewriters (qwert yuiop, etc.) has
been adopted because the letters most
used are in the middle of the key-
board, and therefore directly under
the fingers. European keyboards
follow the same arrangement, with
only one or two changes of position.
Punctuation-marks, fractions, etc., do
vary on different makes, but the ten-
dency now is to standardise them,
too.
• * ♦ «
Aboriginal words meaning (i) gum-
trees, (2) river, river-bend, etc., (5)
beautiful„ good, (4) animals ?
(1) Allumba, Euroa, Kooraka,
Faminga, white-gum eucalyptus-tree;
Apara, Bela, Maljnya, Maltarra,
Moonah, Warralya, species of
eucalypt; Coora, Mungera, bluegum
eucalypt; Ilumba, white-barked
“ghost” gum of central Australia;
Karra, Karrarru, redgum eucalypt.
(2) Adaluma, Barku, Para, Parri,
Warrippa, river; Bingara, Carawa,
Karu,. creek; Culbara, sandy creek;
Narrabri, big creek; Nimala, billa-
bong; Pareora, winding water. (Un-
able to trace word for “river-bend.”)
(3) Kalimna, Lenkunya, beautiful;
Adina, Bunyarra, Gundialga, Gurana,
Kalinya, Mara, Murroomba, good;
Nunkeri, good or beautiful. (4)
Achilpa, wild cat; Aroa, Arua,
Arrawa, Murinya, Patonga, Wollabi,
Wyanna, rock-wallaby; Arunga,
Kanalla, Urringa, euro; Baradine, red
wallaby; Koreli, Kulyara, Kupirri,
Lalliga Maikumba, Nanto, Taldra,
Terka, Uro, Walamba, Wangami,
kangaroo; Wilcanya, wild dog;
Wilga, tame dog; Wilka, dog;
Wilkinya, dingo; Yikaura, native cat.
Brief Answers
F.R.: “P.E.N. Gazette,” obtain-
able from Mrs. E. B. V. Phillips, The
Alexander Turnbull Library, Wel-
lington (N.Z.)... .P.F.: The custody
of the national memorial to Charles
Darwin at Downe House, Kent, has
been transferred from the British
Association to the Royal College of
Surgeons. Darwin lived at Downe
House for 40 years, and it was there
that he wrote the Origin of Species
and various other works C.L.:
Further information may be obtained
from the Secretary, Commonwealth
Literary Fund, Prime Minister’s De-
partment, Canberra, A.C.T 1.D.:
The train referred to is the Central-
West Express and it was placed in
service on October 8, 1951. Similar
“luxury” trains serve,Grafton, Armi-
dale, Albury, Nowra and Newcastle.
T.B.: Write C. E. Bisdee, secre-
tary, Astronomical Society, Room 301,
C.M.L. Building, 18 Elizabeth-street,
Hobart... ,E.A.: Write Malley’s Ltd.,
McEvoy-street, Alexandria (N.S.W.);
Carrier Air Conditioning, 36-40
Bourke-street, Sydney ; or Alfred
Snashall Kent-streei, Sydney....
N.K.. The Turf m Great Britain is
under"the controll of the Jockey Club
for flat-racing and the National Hunt
Committee for steeplechasing. Messrs.
Weatherby and Sons act as secretaries
both j b °oj S vendiffi sauare ßeB Lon y
Ottice, C e dish Lon
r ’ be . P od |y,
Olympic
fows Sffifns (1896) Paris (I*9oo,
„ T«uis 119041 Tondnn 11Q081
StocktS (1912) Antwerp (19?0)’
(1924 V Amsterdam 119281 Los
Angles (1932), Berlin 0936).L0nd0n
(1948), Helsinki (1952).. A.McG.:
See Geo Boxall s . The' Story of the
Australian
Cronins cn/f O , ,acHlradshaw^
S S u tes, J ck Bradshaw
B , and } pJ n v riune’s rL
wud Colonial Bov R.F • Edward
j o bn Trelawny the English traveller
anc j writer, was born in 1792 and
died in 1881. In 1822 he met Shelley
and Byron in Italy; after Shelley was
drowned he was present at the crema-
tion of the body. In 1823 he went
with Byron to take part in the Greek
struggle for independence. In 1831
he published an autobiography,
Recollections of a Younger Son. and
j n 1858 appeared his Recollections of
Shelley and Byron. His Letters were
edited by H. Buxton Foreman in 1910.
See H. J. Massingham’s The Friend of
Shelley, A Memoir of Trelawny (1930),
and Life by R. Glyn Grylls....
8.E.8.: Write Platt’s Surplus Disposal
Store, 439 Pitt-street, Sydney.


Spaniards, Frenchmen, Yanks
The Isles of Solomon
By "MARTIN PLACE”
ON November 24 the
Memorial Gates at
Balcombe (Vic.) will be
unveiled by the Governor
of Victoria, Sir Dallas Brooks.
Seventeen U.S. Marines will
take part in the ceremony.
Late in 1942, after bitter fight-
ing on Guadalcanal, the Ist
Division of the U.S. Marine
Corps came to Australia and
camped at Balcombe. Near the
Army sports-oval in the area the
division received the Presidential
Citation for action on Guadal-
canal.
The Solomons, a double chain
of islands dreaming a few degrees
below the Equator in the south-
west Pacific, seemed remote
enough from trouble before War
11. Even as late as January,
1942, whites were living in a
kind of bubble of pleasant isola-
tion in that part of the world.
The bubble was abruptly pricked
by the official order: “All white
residents are to prepare for
evacuation.” Guadalcanal was,
and is, a vital link in the succes-
sion of islands stringing from
Japan to New Zealand. When
steel starts falling from the sky
vital links act like magnets.
Modern warfare, with security
silence and official communiques,
gives only a fleeting chance to
appreciate the significance of one
campaign before violence erupts
somewhere else, maybe half-
way round the globe. At the time
few people appreciated the scale
and intensity of the fighting in
the Solomons. Then it was over-
shadowed by later campaigns.
Now, even the names of the
battles—the Battle of the
Eastern Solomons, the Battle of
Cape Esperance, the Battle of
Santa Cruz, the Battle of
Guadalcanal, the Battle of
Lunga Point —have a far-off
sound.
The Solomons saw a long, hard
campaign of Japanese occupa-
tion and Allied counter-attack.
American Marines forced a
bitterly contested landing on
Tulagi and Guadalcanal. From
an air-strip, Henderson Field was
built into an air-base. Australian
coast-watchers, playing heroic
hide-and-seek on Buka, Bougain-
ville and other islands to the
north, invaluable warnings
with their radio-reports of Jap
movements.
If these islands had been won
by the Japanese our communica-
tions with the United States
would have been cut. As it was,
enterprise and great gallantry
saved the supply-route across the
south-west Pacific. The danger
of the New Hebrides, and pos-
sibly New Zealand, being lost
was averted. But it took six
months and heavy losses to dis-
lodge the Japanese from the
island of Guadalcanal.
At sea, too, the losses were
heavy. Japanese cruisers and
destroyers surprised the Allies
off Savo Island, and in 30 minutes
sank three heavy American
cruisers and H.M.A.S. Canberra,
damaged other cruisers, and
escaped.
In February, 1943, U.S. forces
occupied the Russell Islands, a
small group like the fingers of an
outstretched hand just north of
Guadalcanal. In amazingly short
order, no fewer than 100,000
men were busy with the'advanced
base construction-depot, the
naval advanced base, pontoon
assembly - docks. The naval
hospital had 2000 beds, the
Army hospital 1000. They were
fitted with the latest equipment
for any operation, and needed
it; on one day 600 casualties
were admitted.
At Wide Beach, in the Russell
Islands, you can still see a wharf
of rusty pontoons long enough
to accommodate two ocean-liners
bow to stern, and with room and
depth of water for both to
manoeuvre.
Probably the most furious air
engagement of the Pacific war
was fought over Guadalcanal in
June. More than 100 American
fighters, warned by the coast-
watchers, were waiting like,
hawks in the sky. About 60
Japanese bombers and 60 fighters
came over, and 107 enemy planes
were shot down for the loss of
only six American planes.
In July the counter-offensive
was launched. The attack on
Munda, a vital Japanese airfield
and supply-depot, marked the
turning-point. The New Georgia
campaign made history because
it was the first really big-scale,
planned, combined operation in
the Pacific. Under an umbrella
of air-power, artillery and troops
were landed on Rendova, and the
Navy transported the troops and
shelled the shore positions. The
Japanese fought back so
doggedly that it took over a
month to push forward a few
miles and capture the airfield.
The Solomons saw the begin-
ning of General Mac Arthur’s
plan of “island skipping” or
“leap-frogging”—the first of the
long strides to Tokyo. From
Munda the forces under his
command went straight to
Empress Augusta Bay in
Bougainville, and so northwards,
by-passing Rabaul. With air- and
sea-communications cut, the
Japanese island-fortresses were
turned into island prisons for
150,000 Japanese who'eventually
surrendered from Rabaul,
Choiseul and Bougainville.
So the sound and fury of
mechanised warfare briefly
picked the Solomons out of
obscurity.
Four-hundred years earlier the
name had been on the tongues
of many as a land of fabulous
riches, the site of King Solomon’s
mines. April 8, 1587, was a great
day at the port of Callao in
Peru. A public holiday had been
declared. Hundreds of citizens
lined the harbor. Flags flew,
fife and drum struck up martial
music, as the ships of Don Alvaro
de Mendana slowly gathered
way.
Westward they sailed. Soon
the snowy peaks of the Andes
lay like icebergs in their wake.
After long weeks at sea, islands
were sighted. On some they were
On others they were
resisted. They returned to Peru.
Don Alvaro de Mendana
reported: “I named the island
of Ysabel after my wife. My
chief-of-camp asked that the
large island be called Guadal-
canar after his home village in
Spain, near Seville. I showed
some nuggets of • gold to the
natives who came aboard my
flagship. They nodded and
pointed towards the mountains,
saying ‘Yaro bocru’ — ‘bocru’
meaning ‘much’ in their
language. I both saw and
handled pearls of a good color.
At Estrella Bay, children were
playing with large pearls like
marbles. It is my opinion the
islands teem with precious
metals. Captain Sarmiento called
them the Isles of Solomon, think-
ing it was the land of Ophir from
which King Solomon brought
quantities of gold . . . and the
name became popular among my
crews.
“For my part I believe they
are but the offshore islands of
that great Southern Continent
which must exist to balance the
world . . . and more glorious
than even discovery and conquest
is to bring those benighted
heathen to the Faith, to guide
them along the narrow path
which leads to life everlasting.”
For 25 years Mendana urged
a second expedition be sent. The
authorities in Peru, shaken by
the raids of Drake and Hawkins,
feared that a new base in the
Pacific might be captured by the
English and used to prey upon
their communications with the
Philippines. But in 1598
Mendana sailed again with a
large expedition.
His charts were out of
reckoning. He could not find the
Solomons. He sailed too far
south and reached an island
which he named Santa Cruz, and
there, in Graciosa Bay, he died
and was buried. De Quiros, the
chief navigator, piloted the
remaining vessels to Manila.
Another 200 years passed
before Europeans again saw the
Solomons. Captain Carteret re-
discovered the Santa Cruz group
and Malaita. The next year the
French navigator Bougainville
saw the large island which still
bears his name, and he named
Choiseul after a Minister of
France.
The theory of the Great South
Land (“which must exist to
balance the world”) drew many
explorers of whom one was the
ill-fated La Perouse, who sailed
from Sydney to be wrecked on
Vanikoro. Finally, James Cook,
by crisscrossing the ocean,
proved that where the Great
South Land was supposed to lie
the ocean was empty.
In the early years of the 19th
century few men sailed among
these islands. The waters are
studded with coral-reefs, lying in
deceptive beauty to rip off keels
and pierce wooden hulls. On
shore, malaria and fever shook
and killed the hardiest. Warrior
cannibals came out of the thick
forests.
Some men lost their lives in
bringing the Gospel of peace.
Bishop Epalle, of the French
Mission, was murdered on San
Cristoval. Bishop Patteson, of
the Melanesian Mission, was
done to death in the Santa Cruz
group.
Traders lost their lives, too.
Among the most picturesque was
Benjamin Boyd from New South
Wales in his beautiful yacht
Wanderer. He was going to
carve out a kingdom for himself,
but he made the mistake of going
ashore on Guadalcanal without
a large armed party, and on that
desolate shore this extraordinary
financier and adventurer was
speared and clubbed to death.
Whalers put in for water.
Herman Melville tells us how the
captain would address his crew:
“Now, men, as we are just off
a six-months cruise, and have got
through most of our work in
port here, I suppose you want to
go ashore. Well, I’ll give you
liberty, but if you’ll take my
advice, every mother’s son of you
will stay aboard and keep out of
the way of these cannibals. Don’t
blame me if they make a meal of
you. You may stand some chance
of escaping if you keep to the
beach and are back on board
again before sunset. At two-bells
the boat will be manned to take
you off, and the Lord have mercy
on you!”
And the sailors would say, He
won’t bounce me out of my
liberty. After six months at sea
I’d go ashore if every pebble on
the beach was a live coal, and
every stick a gridiron, and the
cannibals stood ready to boil
me on landing.”
With no Government claiming
the territory, they were lawless
times indeed. The early traders
in sandalwood, copra and
trepang were brutal men. Only
the most reckless would venture
their vessels in those reef-strewn
waters, and the sale of firearms
and alcohol to the natives bred
more violence.
Far across the Pacific, events
in North America were to change
the pattern of life in the
Solomons and to shape an inter-
lude in Australian history. The
American Civil War changed the
pattern. Cotton-production was
so disorganised that a world
shortage followed. Keen men
planned to seize the opportunity.
Among them was Robert Towns,
a merchant of Sydney, who saw
that outside America there were
few places where cotton could be
grown. He planned to plant
cotton in Queensland, and
acquired 4000 acres ,on the
Logan some 40 miles from
Brisbane,
Robert Towns had been a
trader in the Solomons, and he
thought he could get cheap labor
from the islands. In August,
1863, he sent the schooner Don
Juan, the first recognised recruit-
ing ship in Australian history, to
the Solomons. His directions to
the captain provide a remarkable
blend of naivete and idealism:
You will secure a useful class
of men, lads and native boys.
Two shirts and two pairs of
trousers are aboard for each of
100 natives. I expect you to get
about 70, but would be content
with 50. Force must not be used.
The natives must be kindly
treated. On arrival they will be
provided with comfortable huts
and a diet of rice, meat, pump-
kin, potatoes, with yams if they
can grow them. I will return
them within 12 months. I will
on no account allow them to be
ill-used. They are a poor, timid,
inoffensive race and require all
the kindness you can show them
when you lead them to anything.
I will not allow them to be
driven,
Robert Towns may have had
the best intentions, but he was a
poor judge of men. To describe
the fierce warriors of Malaita as
timid and inoffensive was
ludicrous, and the second-mate
of the Don Juan, who acted as
recruiter, turned out to be a
really exceptional rogue. Before
long he became known as the
most successful man-stealer in
the Pacific.
The cotton plantation did not
come up to Towns’s high hopes,
bat sugarcane proved a better
project. In five years Queensland
was growing more sugarcane
than cotton. More labor was
wanted, and more vessels were
sent as recruiters. Brutality
ruled. In turn, the natives
attacked visiting vessels on sight,
and often killed the crews.
In the 1870’s ships of the Royal
Navy patrolled and policed the
recruiting areas, but they had no
legal power to interfere until an
Imperial Statute was passed,
known as the “Kidnapping Act.”
Then ships were seized and sold.
Skippers were sentenced to five
and 10 years for kidnapping and
manslaughter, though some
saved their skins by killing the
human cargo and throwing the
bodies overboard.
From* 1903 no more licences to
recruit were issued. The
Solomon Islanders were re-
patriated from Queensland and
the name of Robert Towns was
preserved on the map as
Townsville.
Meanwhile, 10 years earlier,
the South Solomons had been
proclaimed a British Protec-
torate. At that time, 50 white
traders were living there. After
an agreement with Germany
other islands were added to the
Protectorate, and Great Britain
withdrew from West Samoa.
The next development was that
the islands were drawn into the
web of international trade. Just
after the turn of the century, Mr.
Lever, on his third trip round the
world, met John T. Arundel, who
had recently reorganised the
John T. Arundel Company into
the Pacific Islands Company.
. The original company had
worked out the known phosphate
islands in the Pacific. They were
sweeping it up with brooms to
get a cargo when Albert Ellis,
one of the managers, noticed a
large piece of rock used for
keeping open the door of a
laboratory in Sydney. He had it
analysed. It turned out to be
practically pure phosphate.
Fortunately, they knew that
one of their supercargoes had
brought it back from the island
of Nauru, or Pleasant Island.
The company was trying to
reach an agreement with the
Germans, who owned the island,
about 12 square miles of
phosphate. Meanwhile, they had
made an excellent start on Ocean
Island, a British possession, 160
miles to the east of Nauru, which
also had immense deposits ; but
they wanted ships with a bigger
carrying-capacity.
W. H. Lever contributed
capital to the Pacific Islands
Company and became a director.
Lever’s Pacific Plantations,
Limited, bought several islands
in the Pacific from Arundel. The
purpose was to ensure supplies
of copra for the mills in Sydney,
but the islands proved to be too
widely scattered in the Pacific for
the copra to be collected on a
paying basis, so they were sold
and it was decided to concentrate
on the properties in the
Solomons.
Some 20,000 acres were
cleared and planted. It was done
with unusual speed because just
then the thousands of islanders
being repatriated from Queens-
land were available. These men
had worked on stations and
could turn their hands to a dozen
different jobs.
Big - scale copra - production
further changed the pattern of
living. It became a tradition for
young men to work on the plan-
tations for a couple of years,
(Continued on page 34)


The name is
(D c Ctdlunrs
OTCoUunrt
Scots (Uhisly
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC 22/3.2
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND — Chbistohdeoh Registry.
In Divorce.
TO RICHARD McROSTIE of address un-
known Mental Hospital Patient. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition by your wife
GLADYS McROSTIE of Christchurch New
Zealand for dissolution of her marriage
with you on the grounds of seven years’
separation has been filed, in the Supreme
Court of New Zealand at Christchurch
with a Notice to you annexed that unless
you file an answer to the Petition in the
said Court at Christchurch within 40 days
from the publication of this advertisement
the Court may hear the Petition and pro-
nounce judgment without your being heard
and that until you have given an address
for service in manner provided by Rules
of Court you will not be entitled to re-
ceive any further notice or documents in
connection with the proceedings A copy
of the Petition and Notice, the latter of
which contains certain special information
for you, will be supplied to you on your
applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Christchurch. DATED at
Christchurch this 20th day of September,
1954.—J. R. SANSOM, Deputy Registrar.
Mr. P. H. T. ALPERS is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for ser-
vice is at his office, ,169 Hereford Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand. Friends of
the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIK THEODOR PLEYM or ERIC
PARKER late of Meehan Street Harris
Park.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
MARGARET PLEYM has filed Petition
for Divorce No. 2101 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
25th January 1955 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. SOHREIBER & NOLAN, Soli-
citors, 61 Macquarie Street, Parramatta.
(Sydney Agents: MESSRS. ISAACS &
GLASS, Solicitors, 147 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney.)—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
d
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire £8 Foreign .... £2/W-
-(Please add exchange to country cheques)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Queen Elizabeth/ winning
£40,993 (10 horses, 19 wins), is
the first reigning monarch in
Turf history to have topped the
owners’ list in an English season.
A supposed certainty. Pride
of Egypt, starting at 6 to 1 on,
was yasily beaten in the Queens-
land Derby by second-favorite
The Wash (16 to 1), with 33-to-l
Cool Gent a distant third.
In Victoria Pride of Egypt had
won the Derby and then fol-
lowed Rising Fast home in the
C. B. Fisher Plate. A rest from
racing would have been a much
better idea than the hurried trip
to Brisbane. In any case, he
would have had to produce a
super effort to down the local
three-year-old, as The Wash ran
the mile and a half in 2.30, easily
a Derby record, previous best
being The Wash is New
Zealand-bred, by Dogger Bank
(imp.) from Cardoness by Fox-
bridge (imp.) from My Own by
Lord Quex (imp.).
. French Charm, easy winner
of the Q.T.C, First Sapling
Stakes on Saturday, is a pro-
duct of the Ra Ora Stud, Pan-
mure (N.Z.), and cost owner
G. L. Ferguson 1600 gns. at the
Wellington sales last January.
French Charm’s French-bred
sire, Gabador, is a brother to
the great French champion
Arden. Gabador, whose oldest
progeny are two-year-olds, is
by Djebel or Pharis, and on
breeding must be one of the
best horses to have been im-
ported to New Zealand. Eastern
Charm, dam of the colt, won
races in the Dominion. She is
by Nizami (imp.) from Lucky
Alice by Lucullus (imp.).
French Charm is from a half-
sister to Dalray.
Randwick trainer M.
McCarten made his winning total
for the Melbourne spring round
nine and a dead-heat when, on
Saturday, Prince Cortauld (11 to
2) won the £4300 Williamstown
Cup from Cromis (6 to 4) and
Commodore (15 to 1). Like
Rising Fast, Prince Cortauld is
easy to ride, various jockeys
having been successful on this
other New Zealand-owned
galloper; in the Williamstown
it was Melbourne jockey Stan
Ralph. Prince Cortauld has now
won £22,216 in 15 wins and
seven minor placings from 27
starts.
One of the first yearlings sold
at the Melbourne auction last
March was the chestnut filly by
Ottoman (imp.) from Rose
Princess by Gay Lothario (imp.).
She cost 500 gns., the bid of
trainer C. T. Godby, and, racing
as Percale, she won her first
race, the First Rawdon Stakes,
at Caulfield. Percale is related
to Le Fusil, a Sydney winner,
while her dam is sister to several
winners, including Balkan
Prince, a winner Perth and
in Melbourne in the best
company, %
Saintly Fire, winner of the
Second Rawdon at Caulfield,
was a 1000 gns. yearling. He is
by Empyrean (imp.) from St.
Luzette by St. Magnus (imp.),
and claims relationship to
Flight and St. Razzle.
Before racing began at
Warwick Farm on Saturday
consensus of opinion was that
Silver Phantom would not be
forward enough to win the main
sprint, the Horsley Handicap.
However, a class galloper—and
the grey is certainly that, being
the holder of the mile record for
Australia—can generally rise to
the occasion. Silver Phantom
broke down in the A.J.C. Final
Handicap last April,. but has
responded remarkably well to
treatment, and he could go on
to further success. On Satur-
day he was the third of trainer
Jack Green’s winners, the others
being Queen Nilo and Triatic.
Winning a two-year-old event
in modest company at Warwick
Farm was easy for speedy Sir
Newton, who had scored at his
prior start at Randwick. There’s
talk of now setting the colt for
the Oakleigh Plate, for which
Sir Newton would get a reason-
able weight, but records of the
sprint don’t favor
the chances of a two-year-old.
Last two-year-old to win it was
Coil (7.10) in 1896.
Sydney paddock-bookmaker
A. Wolfensberger fancied his
two-year-old filly Schottische for
the opening event at Warwick
Farm, the Maltine Stakes, but
the daughter of Royal Empire
(imp.), after showing pace, was
easily beaten by warm favorite
Queen Nilo, raced by former
bookmaker Jack Shaw. Queen
Nilo is by Nilo (imp.) from
Parramatoo by Midstream (imp.)
from Ranier by Rossendale.
Ranier won races at Randwick,
and is a sister to Rampion, 1926
dual Derby-winner.
Rosebery-trained horses, win-
ning their share of Sydney races
lately, added three more to the
tally at Warwick Farm, when G.
Brown took a double with
Andonni and Fire Dust and
S. A. Wheeler scored with Blaze-
away. Fire Dust beat Wheeler’s
representative, Durabay, in the
final event, the Leumeah Handi-
cap. Fire Dust, working with
Andonni, had been superior to
that horse, so when Andonni
easily won the main handicap at
40 to 1, the stable really had
something to go on, quite apart
from Fire Dust’s excellent race-
fofm.
• • • •
When the seven - furlongs
starting - barrier at Warwick
Farm is used many backers pre-
fer to support horses with a
favorable draw rather than
better-performed horses wide
out in the line-up. Blazeaway
and Winged Glory, respective
winners of divisions of the
Birrong Graduation Stakes, were
placed at 19 and 17, but they
won all right, if narrowly. Sir
Newton also had the outside
barrier-position in his race, the
Hoxton Park Stakes, but he was
first away and was not headed.
* ♦ • #
“Vale”; The first trotter in
the Southern Hemisphere to
break the two-minute mile.
Lawn Derby, died in his 24th
year at J. McKenny’s Roselawn
Stud, Cowra (N.S.W.), on
November 7. By Robert Derby-
Roselawn, Lawn Derby had his
first big success in 1934, the
Sydney Derby. Like a true
champion, he was not troubled
by travel—in fact, it was at
Christchurch (N.Z.), on a rain-
affected track, that he estab-
lished the two-mile record. In
1937 he won the Hobart and
Launceston Cups and the Ascot
(Vic.) Cup, this last from a
handicap of 120yds. In 1940
he made a record mile of
2min. 2sec. at Harold Park,
Sydney —time since bettered by
“V air, my kids are all grown-up now."
two of his sons. Avian Derby
and Ribands. Sire of progeny
that have won upwards of
£200,000, the old champion was
buried in his private lucerne-
patch near the homestead.
* ♦ *
M.C.C. v. an Australian XI in
Melbourne was a washout on
the last two days. It was also
pretty much of a washout as a
guide to Test-selection —its main
purpose, from the Australian
angle particularly.
Both batting teams, with an
exception or two on each side,
flopped badly. Due mainly to
good bowling, but some of the
batsmen could have been more
enterprising. Top-scorer in the
M.C.C.’s 205 was Reg Simpson
(74), whose grand 156 not out
in the fifth 1950-51* Test on the
same ground, the first post-war
Test won by England, is still
remembered.
Of the bowlers, spinners
Johnson and Benaud (for the
Australian side) and M.C.C.
pace-men Bailey, Statham and
Bedser all performed well. (Aus-
tralian XI, 7-167 at the end).
Back (now as vice-captain) in
the Victorian XI to play S.A.
this Friday, former Test all-
rounder Sam Loxton, keenest
and most irrepressible of
cricketers. He was in India with
the Commonwealth side last
year. Also back, after being
dropped last year, left-hand bat
John Chambers, who began in
grade this year with a double-
century (209 not out), facing
Johnston and Ring. One change
in the Queensland team to meet
the M.C.C. this Friday: all-
rounder Wal Walmsley in place
of State Rules skipper Leyland
Sanders, who got a “pair”
against N.S.W. Walmsley’s
been a useful cricketer for years
in various parts, one-time Syd-
ney grade-player, professional
cricketer in England, coach in
Tasmania and Q.C.A. coach.
It’s his first representative game.
Three batsmen who may open
for Australia this year all began
with Sydney’s St. George club:
Morris, now with Paddington, a
certainty; Favell, now of S.A.,
a good chance ; and the third, in
the reckoning after his fine
innings for N.S.W. against the
M.C.C. (138 not out at stumps
on Saturday), Billy Watson, still
with the Saints. Watson, who
had been left out after hitting
82 in an opening-partnership of
161 with Briggs in his first and
only State game last year,
only got back in when Briggs
had to withdraw.
“Mid-on”; Hammond is not
the only English cricketer to
have made one trip to Australia
too many (B. 3/11 /’54), With
him in 1946 came Voce, all fire
and venom in 1932 and 1936
(Australia was in a “Voce-like
grip,” it was once said), reduced
to a feeble flicker in 1946.
Maurice Tate was another —
spearhead of the attack in ’24
and ’2B, reserved for country
games by Jardine on the ’32
“bodyline” tour. The reverse
holds with Freddie Brown; on
his first trip, with Jardine, hardly
used at all (being a mere tosser-
up of slows), he returned to Aus-
tralia as English skipper 18 years
later, a splendid success in
every respect. It’s too soon yet
to say in which category one or
two of the older men with
Hutton will later be bracketed.
* * ♦
One- “upset” in the N.S.W,
tennis championships at White
City last Saturday—Victorian
Don Candy’s five-set defeat of
American Tony Trabert. Tra-
bert was not at his best. Still,
Candy, who’s been close to, but
not quite in, the top flight for
some years, is playing good
tennis: a month ago he beat
Hoad in a semi-final of the
Sydney metropolitan champion-
ships, though beaten in turn, by
Worthington, in the final.
♦ • •
With a final burst of 69 —four
birdies in the last nine—Peter
Thomson rounded off his 1954
golf triumphs with the £l5OO
Ampol on Melbourne’s Yarra
Yarra. Nearest of the others
were Nagle and Pickworth, six
strokes behind Thomson’s 282
for the 72 holes. Only 24,
Thomson is British Open and
matchplay champion, and
beckoning ahead of him are
many years of top-rung pro.
performances.
• • • •
“F.C.”: After finishing close
behind the leader in the N.Z.
golf Open, Beverly Park
(Sydney) assistant-pro. Bruce
Crampton compensated by taking
the N.Z. pro, championship,
beating Wanganui rep. J. Tunnell
2 and 1. Only two other Aus-
tralians have won this event.
Crampton is now reckoned likely
to go to America and turn pro.
Main reason: he’s winning his
share of events, but, being only
an assistant, he can’t claim the
full prizemoney.
• ♦ ♦
Intro duc e d as Australian
middleweight champ., Alfie
Sands (10.12) made short work
of Filipino Benny Salem (10.8)
at Leichhardt. Benny was help-
lessly beaten in round-five,
when Freddie Dawson inter-
vened, declaring that Alfie had
won on a t.k.o.—Freddie on this
occasion being in the ring
purely in the interests of peace,
and not a bad ref., either.
Another Filipino, Ray Rico
(10.3), did better against Billy
Lord in a supporting 12-
rounder. Solid left swings shook
Lord from the first bell, and
when the ref.—this time Jack
Burns —discovered. that one of
these rockers had broken Lord’s
jaw he considered that would
be enough for the time being. In
N.S.W. amateur championship
finals, also on the bill, Aus-
tralian light-heavy champ. Billy
McDonnell and State feather
champ. Wally Atkins had wins.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets. Sydney
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONXT RATES:
Single Rooms—
From IS/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE:’
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
-
? mm
mm
mi mm
m
ffwli
i ■ vt
mar
w
By Appointment
to H. M. King 1
F rederik IX
By Appointment
to the late
Kina George VI
By Appointment
Jo H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. the ;
Queen of the
m
ERRY
Netherlands
Cherry
Heering
Since 1818 Danmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
ONf*'
m
vff'*' ’
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—‘SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
toe, meanwhile • discovering,
with sudden admiration, the
landlady’s femininity. .
“You go with the gentleman,”
waving Alec out of the way,
“while 1 talk to this charming
lady. Madame, you must tell
me ; you are called Mrs. Simp-
son, but does that mean that you
have a husband now living, or
are you, fortunately for me, a
widow or divorced person?”
So astonished was the land-
lady at this speech that she did
not notice Alec going upstairs
with the bank-teller.
“I might be able to help you,”
the bank-teller said to Alec, after
hearing the same story he had
told the landlady. “As a matter
of fact, it was Breyley himself
who showed me how it could be
done. One evening after he’d
been into my room to see me
1 noticed that he’d left his hat.
Since he wasn’t about when I
left I just locked it in. But when
I got back late at night the hat
was gone.
“Next morning when I
saw Breyley wearing it I
accused him of burgling my
rooms. ‘I didn’t think you’d
have noticed the hat,’ he con-
fessed, ‘so I thought I’d try my
key on your door. Generally
these boarding-house locks are
all the same.’ I didn’t really
like it: in fact, if you don’t
mind my saying it, there’s not
much I do like about Breyley.
So if I did agree to open his
door for you and it turned out
that he didn’t like it I wouldn’t
exactly mind.”
He took his key from his
pocket and smacked the palm of
his hand with it reflectively.
“You know,” he said, “none
of the people here can stand a
bar of him.”
“As a matter of fact,” Alec
told him with agreeable acquies-
cence, “we’re a bit that way our-
selves. But we can’t very well
change to a new accountant
when the old one Has possession
of our books, can we?”
The wicked, small-boy expres-
sion on the teller’s face would
have scandalised his branch-
manager. He took a hasty look
up and down the corridor and
hurried to Breyley’s door.
During four seconds of struggl-
ing with the lock his brow was
furrowed with anxiety. Then he
flung open the door with a wide
smile:
“Help yourself,” he said, and
tactfully withdrew.
There was a telegram
addressed to Breyley lying on
the floor where it had been
pushed under his door. Alec
picked it up, to avoid stepping
on it, and put it in his pocket,
deciding that he might as well
deliver it. He soon found the
familiar Kraftmann account-
books, and was looking round
for something to wrap them in
when he heard a refined, bank-
official cough at the door.
“Excuse me, Mr. Kraftmann,
but it occurs to me that if you
walk down the stairs, past Mrs.
Simpson, with those books under
your arm she might make a
scene. On the other hand, if
you walk down empty-handed *
and I follow in a few minutes
with a parcel she will think
nothing of it.”
This stratagem proved un-
necessary. When Alec arrived
downstairs neither the landlady
nor Stefanik was in sight.
“You did right in taking the
telegram, too,” Stefanik told
Alec some half-hour later. “All
must be grist for our mill.
Please let me have it while you
drive. I shall open it. Ha, ha,
very valuable ammunition:
“ ‘Please return immediately.
Both Academy and I need you.
Remember Tu e sday night. •
VikV ”
“Looks as if he’s got himself
mixed up in her business,” Alec
remarked. “But she could be
disappointed about Tuesday
night; he might still be in our
silo then.”
When Alec and Stefanik re-
turned from Jindulla, having left
Kraftmann at his solicitor’s
office wrestling with the account-
books, they found Johnny on
guard in the house-yard arguing
with Breyley and threatening
him with dreadful things if he
did not soon sign the statement.
Not that there was any possi-
bility of Breyley getting out of
the silo, but there was a chance
of callers ; commission-agents,
stock-salesmen and such, wan-
dering down amon£ the sheds in
search of the owner, and there
hearing Breyley shouting.
In the big vestibule Rhoda
was putting on a quick cup of
tea. Her mother was still lying
down.
“We got the books,” Alec
announced in triumph ; “and we
got a telegram, too. It looks as
if Breyley has been helping Viki
with the business end of her
academy.”
“She wants him back on Tues-
day night,” Stefanik said with
a grin.
But Rhoda had seized the tele-
gram from Alec and was study-
ing it with an intensity sufficient
to reveal all of Viki’s thoughts
and motives in waiting each
word. Then she said bitingly:
“It’s not next Tuesday night
she wants him to remember, but
last one. I’m quite certain that
he spent that night in her flat.”
“Ah, no. Not necessarily,”
Stefanik said gallantly, watching
her face with great sympathy.
But Rhoda strode out of the
room, her head defiantly erect.
“You needn’t be sorry for
mo. I knew what sort of a man
he was a long time ago.”
Johnny followed her into the
kitchen.
“Don’t worry too much,
Rhoda,” he said with his blunt,
obvious compassion. “It’ll all
turn out all right. Alec got the
books for you, and now I’ll go
and persuade Breyley to sign
that document. Then you’ll be
all right with your father again.
That’ll be fine, won’t it?”
Rhoda looked at him
earnestly.
“You are good, Johnny,” she
said.
Johnny gave her a brotherly
pat on the shoulder.
“I’ll be off to talk to Breyley.
I won’t be too tough on him.”
He watched her face minutely
as he said it; its expression
encouraged him in the hope that
she wouldn’t greatly care what
he did.
“We worked out a solution,”
Kraftmann told his family when
he arrived home that night.
“My old friend Johnston can
handle it all right. He’s going
to fix it with the income-tax
people without it costing us too
terribly much. It seems Breyley
was right enough as far as he
went, but he didn’t realise that
because we paid for the improve-
ments out of hidden reserves, as
Johnston called it, I wasn’t able
to write-off depreciation for
them. Now he’s going to bring
that hidden money out into the
open, and to offset the income
tax that wasn’t paid on it he’ll
claim heavy depreciation on all
our sheds, buildings, machines
and fences. It won’t work out
even, of course, but we can
stand what it’s going to cost.”
He mopped his face with his
handkerchief, a gesture which
indicated to the family that he’d
had a gruelling time. Then he
went on, with a good deal of the
old arrogance gone out of him:
“He recommended to me that
in future we have a board of
management to run the place
and share the responsibility, and
I think it might be a good idea.
I’ve been working myself too hard
trying to do my best for you.”
“That’s what I’ve been saying
for some time,” Mrs. Kraftmann
said, surveying the family with
equable triumph. “Now, if
only we could be sure that Brey-
ley wouldn’t still try to cause
trouble.”
Two doors crashed open and
Johnny rushed into the house
with a piece of paper in his out-
stretched hand.
“He signed it! He signed it! ”
he shouted. Convinced that he
had saved the company by his
own individual effort, he told
his story with great gusto.
“I drove the motor-lorry up
to the silo, roaring in low gear
as if I hadLa tremendous load,
though I had only a couple of
bags of oats on it. Then I
opened up the top hatch and
put the oat-blower funnel into,
position. ‘You better sign that
paper now,’ I said to him, ‘or
I’ll empty a hundred bags of
oats on to you.’ He let go.
“Jeeze, the things he said, the
crooked hound, I didn’t waste
any more time talking to him, I
started up the blower engine—
that drowned out what he was
saying, and then I tipped in a
bushel of oats to let him see
what it was like. Gee, I wouldn’t
have liked to be him, with the
oats coming down on him like
bullets —I had the engine flat-out
—and the itchy dust getting
down his neck and inside his
clothes. I went up the ladder
again to see how he liked it.
“He was still full of fight and
swearing worse than a cranky
shearer, so I just started up the
engine again and gave him two
bags of it. When that was over
it was a different story. He
was coughing and sneezing so
much he couldn’t talk, and when
I told him to sign he reckoned
he couldn’t see, because he’d
been hit in the eyes. Anyway, I let
the paper down to him on a string.
“ ‘Any funny business,’ I said,
‘like tearing it up or not sending
it back and I’ll put fifty bags on
top of you before I stop to see
if you’ve smothered or not.’
That fixed him. I can see now
that it’s a mistake to just argue
with that sort of bloke.”
His triumphant grin sug-
gested that he knew how to
handle successfully the whole
tribe of cunning accountants.
“We can go and let him out,
then, Kraftmann decided.
CHAPTER XIX
TUST as the party emerged
** from the house a taxi drove
up and Viki emerged with her
lucky theatrical timing, making
them look like a deputation
waiting to receive her.
“I’ve only got a second,” she
said, scurrying round and giv-
ing each of the family an oppor-
tunity to plant a gingerly kiss on
her make-up, staring at Rhoda
surprised, but not particularly
impressed, when she side-stepped
with demonstrative , asperity.
“I’ve got to catch the next plane
back to Sydney. I’m looking
for Gregory Breyley, and they
told me at his boarding-house
that he might be out here.”
“He’s out here all right,”
Johnny called out, still ebullient
from his victory. “We’ve got
him shut in the oat-silo.”
“Shut in the silo! ” she ex-
claimed, thinned eyebrows going
up in astonishment. Putting her
fingers to her mouth, she giggled.
“Oh, you awful people! Fancy
doing that to poor Gregory. I
suppose he was worrying you
about that business. He’d found
out about Father’s bookkeeping.
Well, it serves him right for run-
ning out on me just when I’d
given him a job and needed him
badly.
“Oh, the trouble I’ve had!
The silly office-girls at the
academy started an enormous
advertising campaign that
Gregory had prepared, and the
building is just swamped with
new students wanting to enrol.
If I don’t get him back to
organise things and find a way
to handle the crowds I’ll be
losing hundreds of pounds a
week. Come on quickly; let
him out,”
She set off briskly and the
others followed ; the taxi-driver,
too, looking as if he couldn’t
believe what he was hearing.
Breyley emerged covered with
yellow dust and decorated on
all his horizontal surfaces with
oats. His eyes were red and the
skin on arms and neck inflamed.
“Oh, you poor wretch!” Viki
approached him, overflowing
with sympathy, but not prepared
to touch him. “So that's why
you didn’t come when I sent for
you! Well, I suppose I’ll have
to forgive you, though I’m sure
that if you’d explained how im-
portant it was they would have
let you out. You didn’t even
answer my telegram.”
Breyley stopped brushing
away oats long enough to say
in a thick, croaking voice:
“I didn’t get any telegram. I
suppose your precious family
stole it when they burgled my
rooms.”
“We’ve got to go.” Viki
inspected the cleaner of Brey-
ley’s arms and decided she could
take it. “There’s a 'plane to
catch.” /
Breyley took one step, then
stopped to stare offensively at
the rest of the family.
“You needn’t think you’ve
beaten me. I can renounce that
signature any time I like
because it was given under
pressure.”
“We got a decent accountant
to go through the books. He’s
given us an O.K. that has some
value,” Kraftmann said.
But Breyley snapped back like
an angry fox-terrier that has
been mauled by a fox:
“I still know enough to put
you into a heap of trouble.”
Viki giggled again and shook
him by the arm, an arm still so
sore from Kraftmann’s handling
that it made him wince.
“Don’t be silly, Gregory. You
leave them alone.” She turned
to her family. “Don’t you
worry about him. I’ll keep him
so busy, what with the academy
and things, he’ll never have a
moment to think of your affairs.
Now we’ll have to go. Say
‘Good-bye,’ Gregory. Good-bye,
everybody. If you know of any-
one in Sydney who wants to take
singing lessons tell them to come
to us.”
“One thing we must all re-
member,” Mrs. Kraftmann told
the men that night, after Rhoda
had retired, “is this. The name
of Gregory Breyley must never
be mentioned in Rhoda’s hear-
ing from now on until the end
of her life.”
Two days later Johnny came
searching for Rhoda in her
kitchen, with an obstinate deter-
mination on his face.
“It’s no use fretting in here
just because Viki’s pinched your
boy-friend,” he said.
Rhoda gasped and turned
away with a hurt and offended
gesture.
“Oh, I know nobody’s sup-
posed to mention Gregory Brey-
ley’s name in your presence, but
that’s all nonsense. Gregory
Breyley, Gregory Breyley,
Gregory Breyley. See! It
doesn’t hurt you. It would do
you good if we all talked about
what a rotten stinker he is. He
never wanted anything but your
money. And now he’ll be after
Viki’s. But she’ll give him hell.
She’s always playing round with
some new man. He’ll probably
wind up by shooting her. He’ll
get himself hung.”
Rhoda sobbed gently, but she
did not resist when Johnny put
his arms around her.
“I’ve been talking to your
father. He’s prepared to buy out
your shares —that will be some-
thing for you. And he’s pre-
pared to buy out mine, too ; and
with that and the money I’ve
saved in one way and another,
I’ll have nearly as much as you.
So we could buy a nice sheep-
farm between us, a long way
from here:' say in New Eng-
land, where land is cheap. We
could have a pastoral company
of our own. You could be chair-
man of directors and decide how
big the dividends would be and
I’d be the farm-manager. What
about it?”
Rhoda stopped sobbing and
rested her head on Johnny’s
shoulder. Then she dried her
eyes purposefully:
“How soon can we get our
money?” she said.
[The End]


A4B/AUb
AFRICA
m,
NORTH AMERICA
-Travel Royal
fir
BRITISH
TO All SIX
:OHTIH£MTS
&
ENGLAND
ASIA
MIDDLE EAST
Fly on any of 1,000 Speedbird
routes across the world within your
travel time and budget. Choose
from first-class luxury or tourist
travel comfort on many services.
Fly-in-a-hurry there and back—
or take a year, with stop-overs at
no extra air fare. Hotel accommo-
dation, meals and surface transport
provided at scheduled night stops.
WEST INDIES
Fully pressurized 4-engined air-
liners. See your Travel Agent for
complete trip-planning help— no
charge.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
Indonesia, Malaya, Burma, Thailand,
Hong Kong, Japan, Ceylon, India,
Pakistan, Middle East, Africa,
Europe, Great Britain, U.S.A.,
Canada, Central and South
America, Bermuda.
n Mm
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
I SENT OUR ATOMIC SECRETS
TO MOSCOW
In 1943-1944 Major G. R. Jordan,
acting as chief expediter of t™ tend-
iease agreement with Russia, found
that vital materials and top-secret
equipment (costing astronomical
sums of money) were being des-
patched to the Communists. This
was being done in spite of security
regulations, and at a time when
many of the items were desperately
scarce in America itself.
Major Jordan also reveals the
shocking treachery of many so-
called “war leaders,” and their will-
ing service to the Communists, in
this factual, authenticated article,
and the attitude taken to him by
the influential “leftists” of the
nation’s Press.
The current issue of the INTEL-
LIGENCE SURVEY also provides
other factual reports and comments
essential for all Christian patriots.
Single issues of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/- post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/- post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
( Non-party, non-sectarian )
343 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Cl/ARD
PROTECTA
TILL
§sitabie for rrery type of buslnes* H record*
all Sales. Credits, Payout* etc. Strongly bnflt.
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Nonnan Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon A Sons Ud.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aost.)
UNCABLED
ADDITION S
RUSSIA AND CHINA
The 10-man Russian delega-
tion which lately visited Peking
to negotiate a series of agree-
ments amounting to a revision of
the 1950 treaty of alliance
included four of Russia’s “col-
lective leaders.” One of the
most significant things about that
—and about the general nature of
the agreements—is, as the follow-
ing press comments point out,
that it indicates a greatly
enhanced position for Red
China in its alliance with the
Soviet:
♦ ♦ ♦
London “Spectator”: “The
new agreement amounts to this ;
Russia and China jointly
condemn American ‘aggression’
in Formosa and call for an inter-
national conference to study the
unification of Korea. They
demand the evacuation of
foreign troops from Japan and
assert, on Japan’s behalf, her
right to establish normal trading
relations with all Asian countries.
Russia agrees to evacuate her
forces from the ‘jointly used’-
naval-base of Port Arthur, ‘tak-
ing into account’ (among other
more nebulous things) ‘the
strengthening of the defence
potential of the Chinese People’s
Republic.’ Evacuation is to be
completed by May 31, 1955, On
January 1, 1955, Russia is to
hand over to China her share in
various joint Sino-Soviet indus-
trial concerns, and to grant
China a long-term credit of 520
million roubles (which, even at
the official rate of exchange, is
half the cost of running the Suez
Canal base last year).”
♦ #
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The most remarkable novelty
about these conversations is that
a top-level delegation should this
time have come from Moscow
to Peking, instead of in the
reverse direction. They have
come almost as courtiers, instead
of summoning Chinese represen-
tatives to pay homage to the
Kremlin. This tribute to the
prestige of Mao as a warlord
who has overrun Tibet and
northern Indo-China and sent
his armies into Korea is
symbolised further in the
surrender to Chinese hands of
Port Arthur, a Chinese naval-
base in which Russia retained
rights after the agreement made
two years ago.”
» * *
‘‘New York Times": “Peking
wishes to assure the world that
it is a free ally, not a satellite, of
Moscow’s. The reality is still not
this, yet it is not unimportant
that Peking should feel it worth
while to try to give this impres-
sion while Moscow finds it desir-
able—or perhaps necessary—to
assent.”
• * St
London “Time and Tide”:
“Forgotten are the days’ when
Chou En-lai had to make the
journey to Moscow and a
Chinese delegation had to sit
around for months in the Soviet
capital in the hope of extracting
aid from the Russians. If any-
one lost face this time it was Mr.
Khruschev and his colleagues.
Missing also from communiques
is the patronising tone of earlier
statements announcing the
Russian Big Brother’s willingness
to lend a helping hand to his
large but poverty - stricken
friend.”
The same: “Russian policy
towards Communist China is
reasonably clear. It is to make
every possible concession to
Chinese pride and national spirit,
to control the rate of China’s
economic growth and bind her
ever more closely to the Soviet
economy (as the plans for
extending rail-communications
show) and to keep Peking in a
state of daggers-drawn with the
rest of the world—and especially
the Americans.
“Mao Tse-tung and his
colleagues are far more aware of
the guiding Soviet policy than
any outside observer cap be.
They are equally aware of the
strength of their own position
in their relations with the
Russians. Now that they have
tested more exactly the value of
Russian friendship, how long
will it be before they play their
strongest card of all —the threat
of real friendship with the
West?”
• * m
“Manchester Guardian” :
“China, which has clearly been'
pressing hard for increased
financial aid, is to get an extra
£BO million or more, in the form
of a long-term credit and of
additional supplies for China’s
industrial projects. This is a
fair-sized sum, but as an aid to
comparison it is worth remem-
bering Mr. Butler’s statement
that since 1946 Britain has been
investing in the Commonwealth
at the rate of £2OO million a
year.”
• * •
London “Economist”: “The
references to Japan seem to be
aimed mainly at the Japanese.
They are cleverly designed to
exploit the widespread dissatis-
faction in Japan at the country’s
present international position,
and to stimulate the agitation
against the security-pact with
America. The pious hope that
the Japanese will find the
— N. Y. "Herald Tribune."
TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON
strength to liberate themselves
suggests an intensification of the
anti-American campaign in
Japan, with perhaps the use of
violence against American
garrisons. Here, Russia and
China cannot count on the same
Anglo-American disunity as over
Formosa; not even Mr. Attlee
proposes sacrificing Japan to
please Peking. But Tokyo is a
more important objective than
Taipeh for the Communists. The
lesson for the West is that, if
Russia and China can sink their
differences in a common policy,
the British and Americans can
afford to do no less.”
♦ * *
London “Daily Mail”: “The
Chinese are on the march for the
first time in 700 years. This
ancient people have known long
periods of stagnation between
relatively short periods of force
and momentum. Their last bid
for Asian hegemony was under
Kublai Khan in the 13th century,
when they tried to conquer
Japan and failed. Since then
China has remained dormant
because she has been disunited.
“Now she is once more uni-
fied, this* time under Commun-
ism. The result is that, after
seven centuries, she is extend-
ing her frontiers.”
German Rearmament
Writing in “Frankfurter Allge-
meine Zeitung,” West German
Minister of Economics Professor
Erhard has commented on
Germany’s ability and willing-
ness to pay its contribution to
Western defence:
“We [Germany] can carry out
our commitments with complete
confidence, and there is no
problem confronting us which
can disturb our peace of mind.
A national economy which has,
in a few years of reconstruction,
succeeded in supplying 50-million
people by means of a free and
unfettered market will be per-
fectly capable of looking after
the needs of half-a-million
soldiers without endangering its
existence.”
That, as “Manchester
Guardian” comments editorially,
is a “remarkable statement”:
“He [Professor Erhard] said
that his country would have no
difficulty in paying for its share
of rearmament. Further, he said
that even if Western Germany’s
contribution were raised from
9000-million marks a year—the
level fixed for the period after
Germany enters the North
Atlantic Treaty Organisation—
to 11,000-million marks that still
would not place a serious strain
on the country’s productive
resources. There would, he said,
be no decline in Western
Germany’s standard of living, no
fear of damaging Germany’s
trading position, and no injury
to its balance of payments.
“That should make the Finance
Ministers in every other Nato
country sit up. Here at last is a
Minister who does not complain
about the burden placed upon his
Budget and his national resources
—one, indeed, who says his


J/l£ ALL-BRITISH
AU-DKITIiI
Cgmvoy
gfcwort
<£
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & COUTH, LONDON
From
25/-
to
65/-
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABREBE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NBO-BAREBKB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
The most complete Gasoline ever marketed in Australia
(at the former Plume pump)
There's a Te/ne-op
//f Every Tankfa*
The only Gasoline
DOUBLE POWERED
with
1
2
Mobil Power
Compound
G 543
BuyMobilgas at the sign of the Flying Red H
m
o« s
s
°lfc
*/»
to
%
UnhijqflS
*' obl, “l>ntqtion
Mobitoi'
"Obilgoj
The most powerful combina-
tion of additives ever put in
gasoline.
Highest
Anti-Knock
For greatest knock-free power.
It will step-up the
performance of every car
irrespective of age or make
★ UP TO 25% MORE ENGINE
POWER.
if CHECKS PRE-IGNITION
PING.
★ CORRECTS SPARK PLUG
MISFIRING.
★ ELIMINATES STALLING
caused by carburettor icing.
★ COMBATS GUM.
★ FASTER WARM-UP.
country could pay more. It is a
great change from the comments
usually heard when the North
Atlantic Council is carrying out
its annual review of defence
expenditures.”
Seato
Commenting on the South-
East Asia Treaty Organisation,
Hanson W. Baldwin, able
“N. Y. Times” commentator,
opines that what the treaty has
left undone is almost as im-
portant as what it has accomp-
lished.
The set-up in South-East Asia
and the South-West Pacific,
Baldwin notes, has none of the
automatic action, provisions of
the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganisation ; the alliance is far
looser. None of the member-
States is really obliged to do
anything about aggression
against any one of them “except
to ‘consult’ and*to ‘act in
accordance with its constitu-
tional processes,’ which it would
do anyway.
“Moreover, there is, as yet,
no provision for any unified
military command, any pooling
of strength, the maintenance of
standing forces, or indeed any
military measures whatsoever,
although the council will
undoubtedly institute military
planning of some sort. The
present principal strength of the
alliance, in other words, is poli-
tical and psychological, and
secondarily economic.”
Suez Agreement
In its final form, the Anglo-
Egyptian agreement on Suez,
signed the other day, provides for-
the withdrawal of British troops
within 20 months, the waiving of
the 1936 Anglo-Egyptian Treaty,
the maintenance of a good deal
of the existing base by British
civilian contractors and the
movement in and out of stores,'
the re-entry of British forces and
opening of the base if Turkey or
an Arab country is attacked, and
immediate parley between Egypt
and Britain if such an attack is
threatened.
The agreement remains in
force for seven years and can
then be extended ; in the mean-
time Egypt gives Britain certain
landing and servicing facilities
for R.A.F. flights in the Suez
zone.
As London “Economist”
remarks, no one can pretend that
this “is anything but a second-
best” for Britain;
“Atom-bombing or not, it
would be better to keep troops
on the spot to maintain the Suez
base if it is going to be used at
all in war than to have a double
handover, first to civilians and
then presumably back to the
Army, It would also be cheaper.
“Nor indeed should it be for-
gotten that civilian contractors
in Egypt are by no means neces-
sarily immune to the kind of
treatment once meted out to
civilian oil-operatives in Persia.
But none of this has in the last
resort weighed against the fact-
that a base without Egypt’s co-
operation is not a base at all.
“Now, having paid the
required political price in full, the
British and Egyptian peoples
have a right to demand that
relations between their two
countries shall , become in the
future as warm and genuine as
many individual Anglo-Egyptian
friendships have been in the
past,”
That, of course, is one view—
a moderate, hopeful and, prob-
ably, the most common one. By
way of comparison there are the
views of those rebel Tories who
opposed the agreement and who
saw little but defeat, retreat and
tragedy in the British withdrawal.
And, again, there are those who,
like London “New Statesman,”
see the terms of the agreement
as a “hard bargain” for Britain;
“They [the terms] are far
harsher than either the Bevin-
Sidky plan of 1946 or the Neguib
proposals so contemptuously
rejected by Sir Winston only 18
months ago. For instance, 54
per cent, of our troops must be
out in 12 months’ time, and all
of them by June 19, 1956.
“As for the peace-time control
of the base, instead of the 3000
British soldiers in mufti to which
Sidky agreed, there are to be
only 1200 civilian British tech-
nicians, of whom 400 will be
Maltese or Cypriots now resident
in Egypt.
“Instead of the whole base
being maintained, only a few big
installations, including Tel-el-
Kebir, remain in British hands
under the management of civilian
contractors. Everything else is
taken over by the Egyptians,
including all the airfields.
“Once again, as in the Nine-
Power agreement on Germany,
the statesmanship on which Sir
Anthony Eden is so warmly con-
gratulated consists in making
concessions which only two years
ago he himself was denouncing
as outrageous sacrifices of vital
British interests.”
Nine Years of U.N.
Looking back over nine years
of the United Nations, “N.Y.
Times” notes editorially that “it
has done something.” .
Although, it says, “we have
not realised the aspirations
listed in the preamble to the
[U.N.] Charter” and “are still
trapped in a period of painful
tension,” the United Nations
“has acted effectively in Iran, in
Greece, in Palestine, in Indo-
nesia and in Kashmir. By the
expenditure of the blood of
brave men —most of them
American, but others coming
from many member-countries —
it saved South Korea from being
forcibly overrun.
“But, except for the U.N.
forces which operated in Korea,
there is no U.N. Army. There
is no agreement on disarma-
ment. There is no unanimous
acceptance of a world rule of
law, despite the existence of an
International Court of Justice.
The great experiment, begun in
turmoil, continues in uncer-
tainty confusion. Yet it
does continue.
“How would it be if there
were no United Nations? If
our representatives did not have
to associate in person in the
U.N, with the representatives of
Communist States they might
sleep more soundly, but peace
would not be any more secure.
“United Nations has not
failed any more than it fias
succeeded. It has held the line.
It has established precedents. It
has educated world opinion.
There it stands after nine years
—nine years of comparative
peace, during which neither the
A-bomb nor the H-bomb has
been used against helpless popu-
lations.
“We are living in a world in
which there must be some kind
of international co-operation,
government or control. The
U.N. is the best we have been
able to do so far.”
Various Voices
Viscount Simon: “Wooden
heads are just hard heads on
other people’s shoulders.”
Winthrop W. Aldrich, U.S.
Ambassador to Britain: “A
liberal foreign-trade policy for
the U.S. is dictated by the intel-
ligent self-interest of the Ameri-
can people. It will certainly
strengthen the bulwarks of
freedom everywhere. But it is
equally essential for our own
increased prosperity here in
America, and for the ultimate
security of our own land and our
way of life.”
War-time heroine Odette
Churchill: “With my heart I
feel they [the Germans] should
not be rearmed. With my mind
I know that they must be.”
Lord Bracken : “The best way
for democratic politicians to be
sure of remaining in office is for
them gently to inflate the
currency.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Canberra’s Artificial Growth
The announcement that more than
2000 Commonwealth public servants and
their families will be shifted from the
State capitals to Canberra by 1960 is dis-
quieting evidence that the bureaucrats are
determined to fortify their citadel.
It is paradoxical that a Government
elected to curtail bureaucracy and
Socialism should be,in office while this
is happening.
Canberra, the most fantastically
isolated capital in the civilised world,
weaves a strange spell over its inhabitants,
politicians and bureaucrats alike. The
politicians at least spend some of their
time in the cities and in their electorates,
rubbing shoulders with the taxpaying serf,
but the public servant who is a per-
manent resident might just as well live in
Ethiopia as far as his chances of appre-
ciating current Australian thought are
concerned.
Bom of inter-State jealousy, Canberra is
a community divorced from the problems
of commerce, industry and culture that
affect the daily lives of ordinary Aus-
tralians. Business, as such, does not exist,
and even the few retail stores have the
atmosphere of European co-operatives.
The weird social life, divided into strict
compartments, possesses a provincial
snobbery unknown elsewhere in Aus-
tralia.
Public servants and their families hob-
nob exclusively with those of their own
grading; politicians, conscious of a
glamor they do not feel in the cities, are
courted at their hotels by lobbyists from
the commercial centres; the Diplomatic
Corps, jewels in the social crown, form
most of their impressions of Australia
in this dull whirl, doubtless praying for
the gaiety and comfort of a more
congenial posting.
It is impossible, now, to undo what
has been done. Canberra is Canberra, and
will remain the Federal capital of Aus-
tralia. But, if it is to grow bigger, let it
grow as any other town grows—by attract-
ing industry and commerce, not by mass-
migration of public servants.
Indeed, as many Commonwealth public
servants as possible should be stationed
in the capital cities where they are in
touch with the realities of life, and where
their functions can be scrutinised by the
public, and, if necessary, criticised by
the metropolitan press. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
S.A. and Federal Politics
The Liberal Country League of S.A.
should take stock of its failures at the last
Federal election; there needs to be
preparation now to regain lost Federal
seats and to win others which were un-
contested or insufficiently supported.
K. C. Wilson, who lost the Sturt seat,
was unconvincing in his attitude towards
the means-test, and was completely out-
manoeuvred by his opponent, ex-
Ambassador Makin. Makin had learnt
many of the tricky of electioneering in the
U.S.A., and by. a clever surprise in issuing,
a day or so before the polling, a remark-
able hand-written letter to each elector
by post he won thousands of votes from
those who could not believe that it was
mechanically produced.
The sitting Labor member for
Adelaide made no bones about leaving his
electorate to his organisation, for he
knew that the capable woman selected to
oppose him would receive only half-
hearted support from the L.C.L.
Thousands of voters in the uncontested
electorates had the choice of throwing
their vote away or placing it with the
Communist party.
There is a feeling among non-Labor
electors that the L.C.L. is drifting back
into the stream of old Conservatism and
that policy is made outside the meetings
of the executive. That is why so few
delegates attend conferences.
It does seem strange that a State and
city which produced such a galaxy of
talent for the first Federal Parliament-
such as Symon, Downer, Glynn, Holder,
Kingston and Bonython should have
dropped so far back in its Federal repre-
sentation.
Fortunately, just before the war, when
the then State Government was losing
the confidence of its party and the
electors, a War I Digger took the reins,
and he has led the State into great and
continued prosperity. This same period,
however, has not produced any outstand-
ing Federal men, with the exception of a
Speaker, although it can claim some con-
siderable figures in the intellectual,
scientific and industrial spheres.
Mention may be made of Essington
Lewis, C.H.; Sir Hugh Cairns, brain
surgeon ; Sir Claude Gibb, engineering ;
Sir Howard and Lady Florey, medicine;
Sir Raphael Cilento, medicine; Paul
McGuire, literature; Sir Marcus
Oliphant, atomic science; Sir Edward
Holden, industry; Sir Herbert Gepp,
mining; Sir Hudson Beare, research;
Sir Sydney Rowell, defence; and others.
It is significant that, except in the
judiciary, practically no one in law or
politics has achieved the eminence of the
foregoing group. Chas. C. Deland
(S.A.). '
Antarctic Research
While meteorological information has
perhaps been the only worth-while gain
for the thousands of pounds already
ploughed , into Antarctic and sub-
Antarctic exploration in the last six years
(B. 13/10/’54), that is not the reason why
Phillip Law and his team are continuing
their work in latitudes south of 45
degrees. Backed by the findings of top
geologists, the Australian National
Antarctic Research Expedition will
launch an , all-out campaign when it
intensifies its work at Mawson from
early 1955, when a much larger party will
man the base. The expedition will
abandon Heard Island and use it only as
a staging-camp—not that it can expect
better weather reports from Mawson;
it hopes that the additional effort there
will yield some information on minerals,
etc..
When Heard and Macquarie Islands
were first manned in late 1948 and early
1949 there was a twofold purpose behind
the Australian Government’s move to
send Australians to these sub-polar
regions every year. First there was
“Were making history, Sam!”
meteorology. Australia is widely
separated from other countries and, as
most of the weather comes from the
west, there is little to guide the meteoro-
logist in preparing his daily forecast.
But more important to Law and his
advisers —including that grand old man
of the south. Sir Douglas Mawson —was
the training of a nucleus of experienced
men who could man Australia’s first
permanent base in the Antarctic when
the Government gave them the green-
light. That came in mid-1953, and the
first party settled there early this year.
All were experienced men with at least
one tour of duty in the south.
Unlike the Arctic regions, which are
frozen sea, the Antarctic is a continent —
land with an ice-cap varying in thickness
from bare rock, as at Mawson and
neighboring cliffs, to ice of several
hundred feet in thickness. Already coal
has been discovered in the area, and
preliminary investigations into some of
the area south of Mawson base in Mac-
Robertson Land reveal a striking like-
ness to the country around Broken Hill
and central South Australia, where
valuable minerals, including uranium,
have been discovered and are being
mined today.
The grandly beautiful’ seventh con-
tinent encircles the South Pole for an
area of nearly six million square miles —
larger than America and Australia com-
bined. Less than one-tenth has been
surveyed and Australia claims 2,472,000
square miles of it. Following the Aus-
tralian Antarctic Territory Acceptance
Act of 1933 Australia accepted from the
United Kingdom the whole sector
bounded by the meridians 45 and 160
degrees east longitude, and the parallel
of 60 degrees south, with the exception
of the narrow strip of French territory,
Adelie Land, which lies between
meridiarts 136 and 142 degrees east
longitude.
British sovereignty vested in Australia
by this Act was based on a long list of
discoveries and exploration work dating
from the first discovery of land in this
sector by John Briscoe to the charting of
large sections of the Antarctic continent
by the British, Australian and New
Zealand Antarctic Expedition under Sir
Douglas Mawson in 1929-31.
Australia cannot expect to maintain
its claim —which America has already
challenged—unless it does something to
develop it. Sendipg weather reports from
these outposts is not sufficient ground for
a claim.
Only through years of geological
survey can the possible mineral
potential of this vast area be assessed.
v That is why the much larger party will next
year begin a survey which may some day
bring considerable wealth to Australia.
To say that mining here is impossible
is wrong, and many theories already
advanced are being considered. But they
must wait until the mineral wealth is
determined ; the rest will follow as it has
Allowed the discovery of oil in Arabia
and many other isolated, inhospitable
parts of the world.
Since 1948, when Australia became
busy with its southern territory, I have
kept in touch with men there through
my amateur radio-station. I’ve made
about 250 contacts in five years, and I’ve
spoken to most of the men interested
in varied branches of science. The
topic that most interested them? The
mineral wealth of Antarctica when Aus-
tralia started there in earnest. — Rothjay
(Vic.).
Japan
Australians are still muzzy in their
thinking towards Japan, exemplified in
the boycotting by
various bodies of
a visiting Jap
baseball - team.
Japan was our
enemy and Jap-
anese soldiers
committed
horrible cruelties;
but it’s now 1954,
and, while Japan
jnay one day be
our enemy again,
that must not
come about by
provocative or ill-
conceived acts on
our part.
In today’s world
Japan must live,
as must Australia,
and everything
should be done to
see that Japan
recovers its
economic strength
and becomes a
strong member of
the free world.
Japan is in a
pretty bad way
economically and,
for one thing,
needs to find
overseas markets
in a hurry. The
big handicaps it
has to overcome
(apart from the
loss of an empire)
are out -of - date
business and
industrial
methods, obsolete
machinery and
growing labor-
troubles. Although Japan is proverbially
the home of “cheap labor,” so inefficient
is a lot of Jap industry that its costs will
have to be cut-back severely to meet world
competition. Also, there is a heavy drain
on Japan’s dollar reserves—the contrac-
tion of American spending in Japan after
the Korean war has largely reduced the
country to its present plight,
But ope day—from the free-world point
of view, the sooner the better—Japan
will be competing again in all markets,
That will hardly be welcomed by some
sections of industry, and Japanese com-
petition may well be severely felt in some
Australian business-quarters, but that
doesn’t alter the fact that the free world,
particularly around the Pacific, needs the
strength and power of a revived Japan,
Or, at leas;, it is better to have that power
on our side than against us— Kros (S.A.).
R oat j Accidents
D eS ph e road-safety campaigns and
apea | s by var ious authorities, N. S. Wales
,■/ havine a record year of
accidents . obviously sterner measures are
dd tQ reduce the needless slaughter
rn ,
eady tbis year nearly 600 people
have been killed and 11,000 injured in
road accidents . Most of these could have
been avoided by the use of reasonable
care Qf that total> more t h an 1600 were
c bii d ren, of whom 75 were killed,
Road-safety campaigns are not much
use _ According to expert analyses, a
road . sa f ety wee k in any particular centre
reduces jbe number of local accidents for
a w bile, but rarely beyond a few weeks.
similarly, press and radio campaigns have
a pp aren tly had little permanent effect,
The reason, obviously, is that the type of
mo torist to whom the appeals are directed
rare i y heeds them.
Qne of the biggest contributing factors
to road accidents is the absurd leniency
displayed by the courts in dealing with
traffic offenders. Few motorists regard
a traffic conviction as anything serious,
and ma ny wouldn’t take the risks they do
if they knew there was a stiff penalty
awaiting them if caught,
But the courts are still imposing
penalties on the same scale as in the
1930’5, when a fiver represented nearly
two weeks’ pay to a basic-wage earner,
Today, to many people, that represents


■ ':/*a
\
m
m ■
."i
... . 1
t fi
si
‘ ffbu orfod /or Benson & Hedges cigarettes, Sir? ”
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best , BENSONandHEDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine tobaccos . . •
on/t/ j/te sSeM \j
A
r
w
London or Paris or Singapore
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world—from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore—so will he notice, on his varied journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from London
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
fd
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson Sr Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BENSON & HEDGES LTD •OLDB 0 ND S TREE T • LONDON • W
wmwlsM
Holden Utility
now offers you bigger
savings than ever!
Even before Holden prices were reduced
in August, overall economy was one of
the main reasons for Holden being
Australia’s most popular utility. Now
at the new low prices Holden offers
you even lower costs per mile. It is the
only utility that brings you this combination
• Long-life 6 cylinder power and time-
saving 21 h.p. performance • 30 m.p.g.
economy as reported by owners • Proven
dependability and nation-wide availability
of low-cost, factory guaranteed parts
factors which reduce lost time as well as
repair bills • Generous capacity for a
profitable load • Easy handling and a good
lock for convenience in traffic • High
resale value.
In addition, you get Holden’s prestige-
building good looks and roomy comfort
for three. The combination of so many
advantages makes Holden first choice of
Australian utility buyers. In view of the
heavy demand for Holden Utilities may
we suggest that you place an order as
soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Utility
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
• Convenient hire purchase arrangements
are available through GMAC General
Motors’ own hire purchase company.
• There are two Air Chief car radios
specially designed for Holden.
* Registered trade mark
Australia's Own Panel Van
List Price £865 plus tax.
wias
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
\
Sold and Serviced la Holden Dialers thrcmghottt Australia
little more than a day’s pay. For example,
in N. S. Wales the drunken driver, by
far the major contributor to fatal
accidents, is seldom fined more than £2O ,
the average fine is about £lO. Even the
statutory suspension of the driving-licence
does not have intended effect in the
face of such misguided leniency.
By comparison, in Queensland the
average fine imposed on a drunken driver
is in the vicinity of £6O or £7O, and the
magistrate has power to suspend the
driving-licence for periods of from three
to 12 months.
In N. S. Wales, many magistrates seem
reluctant even to fine a drunken driver ;
they frequently choose the easy way out
by releasing the offender on a bond under
Section 556 a of the Crimes Act.
The attitude of the courts to drunken
driving and traffic offences in general was
strikingly illustrated by figures presented
by the N. S. Wales Police Traffic Superin-
tendent, H. E. Snowden, when he
addressed a road-safety convention in
Lismore recently. He said that during the
12 months to June 30 a total of 100,741
persons were charged with traffic offences
in N. S. Wales courts. Of these, 3410
persons were charged with drunken
driving. Of the total, 1810 persons were
given the benefit of Section 556 a ; 1302 of
them were drunken drivers. That seems
to indicate that magistrates view drunken
driving less seriously than other traffic
offences.
The grand total also included 19,321
speedsters, 6764 negligent drivers and 395
persons who failed to stop after an
accident. In most cases only the usual
“token” fines were imposed. Yet these
were offences of the type which have
already contributed to the killing and
maiming this year of the population-
equivalent of a moderately sized town.
This undue benevolence on the part of
magistrates must be heartbreaking to the
police who daily risk their lives to bring
speedsters, hit-run drivers and drunken
drivers to justice.
The number of these safety police is
inadequate, and their reward is often
abuse and sneers on the part of people
who ought to know better. These police,
many of them married men with families,
have a grim sense of responsibility which
is exercised purposefully and without
favor. Their efforts, however, are in vain
if the courts won’t co-operate.
No campaign to reduce the number of
road accidents can succeed unless the
courts play their part. Until magistrates
face up to their responsibilities, the
dreadful record of road fatalities and
injuries will cdntinue to increase.—
J. K. D. (N.S.W.).
Inland Killing
The droving-plants bringing cattle from
“down the river” (Diamantina) to truck at
nor’-west Queensland railheads are any-
thing but “phantoms of the past” (B.
20/10/’54). In fact, this year may
establish a record. Thousands of cattle
have made the long winter trek from the
big stations further down in the Channel-
country. Stock-routes have held well,
watering facilities are gradually improv-
ing, and, after leaving careful hands, the
stock are in very good condition.
After that, however, they face an appal-
ling journey of about 1000 mfles by rail to
Brisbane. It is estimated that each beast
loses at least 1001 b. on the trip ; some are
crippled and many are bruised and
knocked about.
By law, all meat sold in Brisbane must
be slaughtered there. Succulent roasts and
juicy steaks from inland Queensland
become hessian and cheesecloth on the
city housewife’s menu.
At Winton (n.-w. Q.) there is a costly
meatworks which supplied dehydrated
mutton during World War 11. Now it
lies idle, awaiting Government sanction
for it to be used as a killing-floor for
cattle. This type of inland meatworks
will have to function soon so that prime
meat can be railed in refrigerated trucks
to the big cities.
Anyone who has ever eaten fresh-
killed beef “down the river,” and then
sampled the product after it has run the
presept gauntlet to reach the city, knows
the almost incredible difference—Quo
Vadis (Q.).
The Labor Party
“Dustman” (B. 27/10/ ’54) ridicules the
suggestion that the Labor party or any
other organisation should be disbanded
because its aims have been achieved.
It has happened before. William
Wilberforce’s anti-slavery campaign in
Britain, for instance, has long since ceased
to be a vital force.
Word it how you will, Labor’s policy
is, in a nutshell,- “less work for more
pay,” and that once-reasonable aim is not
now in the best interests of the Australian
nation or any section of it.
The point is that some organisations
espouse causes which are permanently
sound and reasonable and some do not. — 1
G. T. (Vic.).
Bank Insurance
Not many banks will support the
suggestion (B. 27/10/’54) that trading-
banks should become self-insurers against
fire.
The hard-headed (though not neces-
sarily hard-hearted) banking gentry are
too well aware of the long history of
self-insurance schemes all over the
world.
Sad examples apart, bankers, being
good at figures, are able to calculate
that if they contributed to a self-
insurance fund the equivalent of a iire-
insufance premium of, say, 2s.‘ 6d. per
£lOO a year it would take 88 years for
the contributions to build up, at a rate
of 4 per cent, compound interest, to the
sum of £lOO assured.
In other words, such a self-insurance
fund would have to run for 88 years
without meeting any loss whatsoever, or
incurring any expenses, before it could
offer as good protection for all the
property covered as the insurance
market would furnish on the spot under
a firm contract.
No fires on banking premises in the
last 50 years? Well, the city of Hamburg
built up a self-insurance fund over 175
years. In 1842 a conflagration caused
property damage estimated at £7 million.
The fund failed.
If bank property is a good fire risk the
underwriters award it a low premium—
and that’s good business for all con-
cerned. — Tomcat (Vic.).


A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
m
fv
THE
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed «
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION. ETC.
f
/
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 25 years
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC : Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.V Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), C.M.L. Building, King William
St.. Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN; G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
“My mate's feeling bad, you can see.
But me? Why. I'm well as can be.
He was marked with a knife .
It may cost him his life,
But, they used Elastrator on me.*
The "Elastrator" method of markinq and tailing over*
comes all the objections of methods of the past.
Lambs suffer practically no shock and no set-back.
Losses are almost eliminated and fly-strike i* con*
siderabfy reduced,
Elastrator Instrument £6/6/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500)
Elastrator Loader
.. 30/-. plus freight
£5/SA. plus freight
df
d
For Marking and Tailing lambs
For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
THE MAN ON
WAGGA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WAGGA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
IVERINA roads all seem to
lead to Wagga nowadays.
Many Government institutions
which ha.ve a direct bearing on
land pursuits are in Wagga, and
wives encourage their landown-
ing spouses to visit the place,
mainly because of the shops.
Apart from some large local
concerns, there are branches of
big city-stores there.
When Sydney interests think
decentralisation, of late years,
they seem to think Wagga. Gov-
ernment departments, stores,
hotels, restaurants, engineering
works, clothing factories, all
illustrate the trend. A leading
Sydney daily took over the daily
paper a few years back, and there
is persistent talk in Wagga of
the paper’s chief Sydney rival
having bought a controlling
interest in a small local concern
recently.
It seems only right and
natural, then, that Wagga should
have an Agricultural Research
Institute, the like of which
cannot be found anywhere else
in Australia —so Mr. Graham,
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture,
assured us. We drove over to
Wagga the other Saturday to
view the opening of this prodigy.
Whether or not it was due to
the efforts of E. H. Graham (he
is the member for Wagga) that
the new institute was established
there, that astute gentleman must
have been highly gratified when
about 900 people gathered to
watch him open it. Down in
Albury they say hard things
about the Minister’s penchant
for planting important projects
in his own electorate. That aside,
the institute itself seems to be a
very good thing.
Most landowners know that
there are various scientific insti-
tutions working on agricultural
problems too complex for the
State experiment-farms. They
see them in Sydney as the trams
creep slowly along George-street
West; they know that the
Department of Agriculture in
Phillip-street has its laboratories,
but the fact that they are small
and apparently cramped, as well
as being so far removed, in a
dual sense, from the people who
are depending on them, has led
to an absence of any great pride
or confidence in them. Cynics
even go so far as to call them
products of the “Government-
job factory.” But the other
Saturday’s crowd of spectators,
from parts near and distant,
clearly showed that a sufficient
number of country people take
a personal interest in the new
institution. Nine-hundred people
now know what will be going on
tHfere; perhaps an embarrassing
number of them will be knock-
ing on the doors, asking ques-
tions, volunteering information
and offering specimens.
The appearance of the place is
impressive. A large new build-
ing of clean, efficient lines;
nothing ostentatious, but, on the
other hand, no skimping. On two
floors, six major laboratories
with imposing names—plant-
pathology, soils - laboratory,
nitrogen - laboratory, general
chemistry, cereal - chemistry,
agrostology—and a number of
lesser ones like soil-preparation-
room, dark-room, mill-room and
bakery. Numerous offices and
store-rooms, and the whole
place extremely well-lighted and
-heated, and air-conditioned
for the comfort and convenience
of the six chief-officers and their
assistants.
The institute is completely
equipped to investigate all aspects
of any problem relating to wheat,
soil-fertility, pastures. It has
available the field facilities of
the 3000 - acre agricultural
college and experiment-station
on which it is situated, and it
has agronomists stationed at
Temora and Condobolin.
Although the building has not
long been completed, several
projects are already well in hand.
One of these, so Mr. Graham
assured us, could recoup the
£lOO,OOO cost of the institute in
two years—the development of a
satisfactory variety of wheat
entirely resistant to the fungus-
disease known popularly as smut.
Another “short-term” project
is to produce a good protein-
quality wheat of sufficiently high-
yielding capacity to replace the
problem wheat, Bencubbin,
which has a low-quality grain,
but such a high yield that many
farmers want to grow no other
variety.
The importance of this project
was emphasised by a represen-
tative of the flourmilling industry
present, who declared that the
millers were passing through the
grimmest period in their exist-
ence. Not only had many over-
seas markets for- flour been lost,
but the few remaining ones
demanded high-quality flour
only.
Crossbreds and varieties from
the Waite Institute (S.A.) will be
tested with a selection of N.S.W.
breeds, in a number of ways.
The director. Dr. Pugsley, is
cautiously optimistic (in the
manner of scientists) about the
plots of the South Australian
variety, Javelin 48. In four or
five years, it is hoped, a strain
will be developed which will
please the millers with its
protein-quality and gratify the
farmers with its bag-filling
capacity. Two new wheat-
varieties from the Temora
Experiment Farm —Curlew and
Brolga—are also considered
promising enough to be given
extensive tests.
Long-term projects include the
breeding of new and better
wheat-varieties, always a 10- to
12-year undertaking; develop-
ment of economic systems for
restoring soil-fertility by pasture-
sowing ; soil-chemistry investiga-
tions into mineral deficiencies
and into methods of building up
nitrogen; into chemical defici-
encies in wheat and pasture-
plants ; into protein-content of
grain; into new diseases of
wheat, and into the recurrence of
old ones like “take-all,” which
had been defeated, but which
are reappearing under new
systems of wheatgrowing, such
as the clover-ley programme.
The institute has an advisory
committee consisting of repre-
sentatives of the flourmillers,
bread-manufacturers and wheat-
growers. These industries had
representatives at the official
opening, too. And they, and the
local officials on the platform,
wished the new enterprise well
at such length that when the
talking part of the affair was
over, there was so little of the
afternoon left that one had to
choose between aftemoon-tea at
the Government’s expense and
having a good look at the
scientific equipment. With a
request from the “Man on the
Land” page to fortify our self-
denial, we selected a keenly
scientific-looking young man to
show us over the place.
We started at the mill-room,
which he said could be called the
core of the institution—although
it is possible he chose it because
it had a pleasant simplicity for
men recovering from two hours
of exposure to hot sun and
speeches, or because it was on
the side opposite to the one over-
looking the aftemoon-tea tables.
The mill-room was really a
multi-roll flourmill in miniature.
Each of the machines, which in
a full-scale flourmill would
occupy an entire floor of a large
building, was no bigger than an
old - fashioned cash-register.
Nevertheless they looked very
efficient, and, set in motion,
made a convincing sound of real
work, grinding, sieving and
separating a meal to a qualified
refinement, ranging from the
“first break” to the finest white
flour.
Other standard flourmill
equipment was there, too. Some
of the wheatgrowers looked a bit
uncomfortable as they passed by
the samples of impurities which
the dogkennel-sized cleaning-
machine had removed from
typical f.a.q. silo-wheat. In
this room there was also a
moisture-meter which could tell
the percentage of moisture in
grain at a glance—by its resist-
ance to electric induction, it was
explained.
From the mill-room to the
bakery, where a miniature
baker’s-oven turned out loaves
made from wheat of various
qualities. It was apparent that,
despite public outcry about
bread-quality, very few of the
visitors, of either sex, could dis-
tinguish high-quality from low-
quality without reading the
labels. Tasting, our guide*
informed us, might have revealed
a difference. But tasting was dis-
couraged, even for people de-
prived by oratory of afternoon-
tea.
After the cheerful din and
pleasant hot-bread smell of the
first two rooms, the plant-
pathology lab. was stark and for-
bidding. It was full of small
electric-ovens, in which plant-
diseases are tenderly nurtured in
test-tubes, each at the tempera-
ture most suitable for its develop-
ment. All the old familiars—
take-all, foot-rot, leaf-spot, bunt,
smut, each grown to bloated and
enormous proportions on a diet
of nutrient-jelly derived mainly
from potatoes*
Wheat-stem rust, the young
man told us in a disappointed
voice, wasn’t on display because
it wouldn’t develop on any kind
of nutrient-jelly they could
devise; wheat-stems or nothing.
A lethal device called an auto-
clave, for killing disease-
organisms by exposing them to
heated steam under high
pressure, engaged our attention.
This is to ensure that no stray
organisms are active (in the
nutrient-jelly, for instance) to
upset the pathologist’s investiga-
tions.
In the soils-lab, we encoun-
tered the mysterious enzymes,
which we heard about first, I
think, at school, when we were
fascinated to learn that we had
them in our mouths. But there
is no end to their activities, and
we encountered them time and
time again, each time doing
something different. Here they
were turning soil-minerals into
plant-food, though what they
were, and how they did it,
precisely, I found it difficult to
understand, despite the advan-
tages of an agricultural
education.
Here, too, was a constant-
temperature water-bath for
coddling sensitive organisms or
nursing along delicate chemical
changes ; even a little propeller
circulating the contents to ensure
that the water wasn’t warmer in
any one part than another.
Which, incidentally, opens up
intriguing and luxurious possi-
bilities, in relation to the
domestic bath.
As later in other laboratories,
we were impressed with the
variety of heating-appliances.
Scores of simple little electric-
heaters which seemed to take the
place of the gas Bunsen-burners
of schooldays; gentle sandbath-
heaters that could incubate an
egg ; devices for producing moist
heat and devices for dry heat;
and a muffle-furnace, a type of
stove heavily fined with thick
slabs of asbestos, capable of
reaching temperatures over a
thousand Centigrade. This is
used to remove all traces of
moisture from soil-samples prior
to mineral tests, and to burn up
any organic-matter it might
contain. It is also used to deter-
mine the amount of mineral
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
The Uranian Cycle, and the absence of spots, continue to
hare the usual irregular effects. November rains hare been
an example of this contradictory influence, the full impli-
cations of which (as explained earlier) will be more
obvious later in the month. If the 1870 rains of late
November are again prominent, then the dry summer indi-
cated by the Main Cycle will not occur. The Neptunian
Cycle seems to support this possibility, although the records
are very slight. The Uranian Cycle is the half-way point
of the Neptunian Cycle. In 1789 November floods were
mentioned. But there are no dates, nor any details of the
rain: moreover, this journalistic account of the second year
after the “landing” only applies to the County of Cumber-
land.


fd
The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
the peace
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivators, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attachment Ulus
trated is the
“ FARMERS
BOY”
CUTTER-
BAR.
Write or telephone
your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the
attachments that interest you:
N.S.W.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. 8W4261.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St, Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: Bdzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St, Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St, Launceston. S. Aust.;
A. M. Johnson & Sons Ltd., 200-204
Grenfell St, Adelaide. W 1495 & 1824.
Sole Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
, For Sale
■■ -
MT. IRVINE (Near Mt. Wilson).
“TAIHOA,” HIGH-CLASS LONG-
ESTABLISHED GUEST HOUSE or
MOUNTAIN HOME, with 50 acres,
including fully - grown garden,
avenues of chestnuts, walnuts,
poplars. Rich volcanic soil. Spring-
water, sewered, 64 miles from Sydney,
or will sell with 10 acres. Apply—
H, HAMILTON MOORE & CO.,
Solicitors, 7 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. BX 3144.
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
TRACTOR VALUE!
In Fordson Majors keen price
ail these “extras” are
STANDARD EQUIPMENT
Power take-off • 2-Speed Belt Pulley
• 12 Volt Starting Equipment
Electric Lights • Adjustable Track Front Axle
• Independent Turning Brakes
• Fully Adjustable Drawbar • Tachometer
• “Yuba” Type Spark Arrestor
Radiator Shutters and protective chaff screen
• Large weatherproof toolbox
KEROSENE MODEL DIESEL MODEL
With pneumatic tyres I with pneumatic tyres
£9lB
£1077
Optional equipment—Hydraulic
lift and 3-point linkage only ®
Mb
Your Fordson Dealer will arrange a
demonstration on your property.
Listen to the FORD SHOW on any of the 62 Stations in the nation-wide weekly broadcast
More Farm-Right
Features than
any other tractor
Latest overhead valve, low-friction
engines with choice of kerosene or
diesel power ... 6-speed transmission
. . . “touch-control” hydraulics . . .
3-point linkage .. . range of “Crown”
and matched implements and equip-
ment . . . and many more advances
in working versatility and economy.
Feature by feature, your Fordson
Dealer will show you why Fordson
Major is easily Australia’s greatest
tractor value.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
matter in plants. Samples of
flour are brought in from the
mill-room to establish the
amount of ash contained in
them ; which seems to disprove
the suspicion of Sydney house-
wives that the baker puts ashes
into the flour before he mixes the
bread.
The cereal chemists have a
vacuum-pump to discharge the
air from a vacuum-oven for
those experiments requiring
heating in the absence of air. A
Bra bender-recorder records in
ink on a graph the rate of gas-
production in samples of dough
—this is, of course, intimately
connected with the texture and
keeping-quality of bread.
The same device, we were told,
could determine the enzyme
activity in shot- or sprung-
grain. Shot- or sprung-grain, as
all wheat-cockies know, results
from heavy rain falling on
ripened wheat before it can be
harvested. The tiny plantlet in
the grain has to have the starches
changed in form before it can
assimilate them for growth. We
caught up a bit on our neglected
enzymes here.
The dark-room, as one would
expect, is used for ordinary
photographic work (which plays
a large part in a scientific investi-
gation) and also for ultra-violet-
ray technique.
The nitrogen-laboratory had a
most impressive piece of furni-
ture: a Kjeldahl nitrogen-unit.
In this, 12 specimens can be
tested simultaneously (for
nitrogen) by an elaborate link-
up bf glass- and rubber-tubes ;
acids, heaters and condensers
playing their complex parts.
Everything from green plants
to samples of flour-dough can be
tested by the Kjeldahl. In the
latter function it by-passes the
older gluten-washers for deter-
mining the baking-qualities of a
flour, since the nitrogen-content
has a close relationship with the
protein, and the protein,
similarly, with the gluten. Gluten-.
washers were there, too —nice,
busy, easily comprehensible little
machines, kneading lumps of
dough round and round in salt-
solutions which remove the
starch; gluten-content being
arrived at by weighing the
residue.
Here, again, enzymes raised
their invisible heads. Our
scientist, having thought of a
method of making-things-clear,
remarked helpfully: “You have
enzymes in your stomach, too,
to turn starches in your food into
forms which can be assimilated
into your system.” To which
we could only express regret that
we didn’t have any of Mr.
Graham’s afternoon-tea there, to
keep the little monsters busy. It
had been a long drive to Wagga.
We looked briefly into the
agrostology-room, where the
chief concern seemed to be
skeleton-weed and subterranean-
clover. Eighty-thousand acres of
skeleton-weed had been sprayed
in the three shires adjacent to
Wagga, by a system developed
by Mr. Tindale, of the institute
staff. The system is based on
the hormone preparation 2,4-D,
which killed the weed and spared
the wheat. Care had to be taken
to do the spraying at the right
stage of wheat-development or it
produced the most fantastic
deformities in the wheat-plant.
Before going into this room we
had been quite pleased with the
fact that we could identify eight
different strains of sub.-clover ;
here they had nicely mounted
specimens of 200.
This being the end of the tour,
we took the opportunity to stop
the director for a final word. Dr.
Pugsley looks the kind of man
to whom the future of the
institute can be left with con-
fidence. A thoughtful, deter-
mined, obviously sincere face.
He came to Wagga from the
Waite Institute in South Aus-
tralia, a place with a sufficient
reputation outside that State: it’s
connected with the University of
Adelaide. He was lecturer in
plant-genetics, and was best-
known for , his work in back-
crossing wheat: that is, improv-
ing established varieties by cross-
ing them with one of the varieties
from which they were derived,
in order to bring out more
strongly certain characteristics
for which they were originally
bred. He has had considerable
experience in the United
Kingdom, and last year was
awarded the Farrer Medal for
outstanding services to Aus-
tralian agriculture.
In the new set-up at Wagga,
Pugsley said, we have at last a
complete scientific foundation
for Australian agriculture.
Hitherto scientific work was
carried out piecemeal at various
scattered places, by individuals
working under difficulties, and
depending for vital assistance
and the use of specialised equip-
ment on men and institutions
already fully engaged in their
own projects.
Here, for the first time, a line
of investigation can be followed
from start to finish; from
laboratory to field, and back to
the laboratory, without a break
in supervision and with all opera-
tions carried out at the right
time, and in the most efficient
•manner.
About the possibility of good
results Dr. Pugsley has no
doubts; just a matter of time,
men and equipment.
Money, too, is quite important.
A proposed ’ levy of |d. per
bushel on wheat for research,
—already agreed to by one
growers’ organisation, and
strongly advocated for Com-
monwealth - wide legislative
action by the N.S.W. Minister
for Agriculture—would greatly
increase the opportunities and
the usefulness of places like
this.
All the wheatgrowers present,
after seeing something of the
institute, and learning about its
objects, appeared to be perfectly
willing to pay such a levy. Flour-
millers, too, have indicated that
they will give substantial and
regular support. The bread-
makers have their own institu-
tion, working on their particular
problems, but they have
promised whole-hearted co-
operation.
E. O. SCHLUNKE.
Why Lambs Die
“Dawn”: More than half the
lambs which fail to mature every
year die before they are two
days old. This is what has
happened at Rutherglen (Vic.)
Research Station, where atten-
tion at lambing-time is better
than in the average flock. Just
over 8 per cent, of the 3140
lambs dropped there in the last
three years have been stillborn,
or have died.
One-quarter of the losses
have been stillborn: one-third
of the lambs have died before
they were two days old ; one-
fifth have gone between the
third day and marking-time;
and the rest have succumbed
between marking - time and
weaning.
C.S.I.R.O. Report
.
annual report of the
U.b.1.R.0. covers in some detail
the m . an y P r °jects in which the
organisa 1 1 o n is interested,
General outlines ot much ol
. have been fairly
widely distributed. A lew
points, however, seem worth
of sheen “can
ciowny smKe or sneep can
( Continued on next page )


FOR PLEASURE IN LEISURE
m
fi
m
Tailored For
Tour Comfort
Over the centuries, craftsmen,
expert in the art of Trouser
construction, have been seek-
ing to tailor the Ideal Trouser
for men. Gathering up their
experience and knowledge.
Stamina’s stylists have created
a Trouser that is literally
Tailored for your comfort.
You will enjoy the snug fit, the
smart appearance, but above
all, as you sink into your chair
you will enjoy the luxury of
the Tailored Comfort that is
the Joy of wearing Trousers
by Stamina. And here is
good news there is a pair
pre-tailored for You . . • • •
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
COVENTRY CLIMAX
Industrial Engine Unit
4 Cyl. Petrol Engine,
range 2000-
2400 r.p.m. develops
approx. 12 h.p., water-
cooled with radiator and
fan, impulse magneto.
Complete with tools,
spares and instruction
book— £l2O.
We have one of these in
stock built into a portable
2in. Centrifugal pumping
unit suitable for fire-
fighting purposes or
agricultural spraying—
£lBo. .
11
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or
agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road, Newtown, Sydney. LA3597.
then to take home trade-goods
for their families in the villages,
Life went on fairly smoothly
a ij the end °. f World War I,
£fowfa U sX -fiaff-SS
the islands like a hurricane.
About 100,000 natives were living
on the island of Malaita. The
Big Sick cut the population
almost in half. The natives had
no immunity and high tempera-
hires drove them to folly,
Desperate for coolness, they did
all the worst things—lay in rivers,
or the sea, opened up their huts
and lay in the draught. Even
today some districts long ago
cleared of forests still have few
villages. As they say in pidgin:
“Time Big Sick he come, too
much people he die. That’s
which way he stop along this
place and no more people he,
too.”
After World War 11, rehabili-
tation just couldn’t get under
way. Shipping was short. The
Solomons were remote. They
were caught in a vicious circle,
Ships weren’t sent because no
return cargoes were available,
Copra couldn’t be produced
until tbe plantations had been put
in ° rder - Huts had to be rebuilt
to . house the labor, ai
white staff. Copra-driers had o
be set up again and labor had to
be recruited.
It was heartbreaking, uphill
work to break this vicious
circle. As if these physical diffi-
culties weren’t serious enough, the
local development of the “cargo
cuh” -known as “Marching
Rule” quickly, gathered strength,
This manifestation of the
impact of industrialisation on the
simple ways of the islanders carl
easily be appreciated. During the
war, big vessels nosed on to the
beaches, their bows gaped open
and jeeps rolled out. Amphibious
craft lumbered up t out of the
water and rolled away on wheels.
Supplies were dropped from the
air. The imagination of the
natives was stunned by the lavish
material supplies and the
On the islands, everything
came by ship. The result was a
fantastic confusion °f |deas
put of these and^loca 1 snuggles
£ ’S™“
“Marching Rule ” Some say the
“Marx,”
others maintain that it w&s
the idea of ‘marching or
“advance.” The sort of slogans
they repeated were: ? Our
ancestors will return. loin
Marching Rule and drive out t e
white man. Ships will come,
bringing everything we want, but
these things, hospitals, sc oo s
and houses, are only ioi t rose
who believe in Marching
‘They will come from America,
Americans will knives,
axes, hurricane-lamps. No
more work on plantations. T c
w° men must the rood,
No more work. a new
heaven on earth. . Join March-
mg Rule.
The movement was serious,
Even though the people of
Malaita had shown the greatest
loyalty to the British during the
war, now, with Marching Rule,
anti-British feeling was rampant.
It took several years to get the
situation under control.
Meanwhile, important admini-
strative changes had been de-
cided in London. Tulagi, the
pre-war capital, had been so
battered by war that Honiara, on
Guadalcanal, had been chosen as
the site for the Administration.
The work of administration,
under the office of the High
Commissioner of the Western
Pacific, was taken away from the
Governor of Fiji, who had held
both posts. So, since December,
1952, the High Commissioner of
the Western Pacific has resided
at Honiara, on the spot for de-
cisions affecting the British
Solomon Islands Protectorate.
Looking back across the
centuries, the Isles of Solomon
have often proved to be the
Isles of Disillusion. They do not
teem with minerals, as claimed
by their Spanish discoverer.
They are islands, not the Great
South Land imagined by later
geographers. Christian missions,
violence and warfare, have left
the natives puzzling over the
ways of the white man, but law
and order have been established,
and the raw material of copra in
varied forms goes over the world.
Malaria is under control. The
reefs are being charted, and high
over all drum the engines of
aircraft.
now be regarded as under con-
trol,” through the use of
dieldrin and B.H.C. as protec-
tion against body-strike, and use
of the modified Mules-opera-
tion and tail-operation as a
protection against crutch-strike.
The jetting of struck areas
with aldrin, dieldrin and B.H.C.
has given promising results, on
the treatment side ; concentra-
tions ranging from 1/20 to |
per cent, freed struck area from
maggots within 24 hours, and
wounds healed quickly. At the
highest concentrations the insec-
ticides gave continued protection
against maggots for up to 11
weeks.
Good progress is reported in
the commercial exploitation of
the flotation process devised
some time back by the Division
of Industrial Chemistry for the
recovery of lanolin (wool-wax)
from wool-scour liquors. This
seemingly by-the-way project
has lively economic possibili-
ties. In any industry it is im-
portant that waste be eliminated
and by-products utilised. Up to
90,000 tons of lanolin is present
in each year’s clip, and of this
about 10,000 tons goes to
waste. A number of wool-
scouring firms have installed
the flotation-plant in their
works.
A good deal has been heard,
from time to time during the
year, about “phalaris staggers.”
The condition most commonly
occurs in the autumn and winter
months following the grazing of
young phalaris shoots which
emerge after autumn rains. It
was first recognised 20 years ago
in South Australia, but has since
been reported in Victoria, New
South Wales and Western Aus-
tralia under a wide range of
soil and climatic conditions.
A “drunken” gait js the
characteristic symptom.
Affected animals may gradu-
ally get worse, and may die
after some weeks. Others may
appear normal until disturbed,
when, after running, they fall
and pant heavily. Even mildly
affected sheep are potential
casualties, since normal opera-
tions, such as dipping, may bowl
them over.
Once symptoms have ap-
peared, removing the sheep
from phalaris - pasture isn’t
enough, although some sheep
may recover. Cobalt drenches
have been shown to give protec-
tion ; the greater the amount of
cobalt the greater the amount of
toxic material that can be
tolerated. But it is not yet pos-
sible to set a dosage that will
always give protection. One
thing seems certain doses
should be given frequently (say,
at weekly intervals). Dosages
equivalent to about Imgm. of
cobalt per day gives protection
in most circumstances.
Topdressing experiments are
still in an early stage, but treat-
ment at the rate of lib. of
cobalt-sulphate per acre ,has
protected an experimental flock,
under conditions which led to
a high mortality in a flock on
adjacent (untreated) pasture.
Crosscuts
The first pasture-improve-
ment group in W.A. was formed
at Miling in 1939. There ate
now over 100 in that State.
* • •
Eight Poll Shorthorn bul-
locks, bred and fattened by D.
Livingston, Boolaroo, Moree
(N.S.W.), brought £72 16s. a
head at Homebush.
• * ♦
“C.A. A.”: Experiments at
Oberon (N.S.W.) indicate that
sod-seeding (as compared with
surface broadcasting) brings in-
creased yields of clover in both
the first and second years,
• • *
A shortage of experienced
labor for the N.S.W. wheat-
harvest seems likely, despite a
reduced crop.
♦ • •
“In 1927 the then Prime
Minister, Mr. Stanley Bruce,
appointed an expert committee
consisting of Professor J. B.
Brigden, D. B. Copland, and
others, to report on the
economic effects of the Aus-
tralian tariff. This committee
found, among other things, that
tariffs fell with the greatest
weight on export industries, and
that they served to divert pro-
duction and employment from
export industries to protected
industries.” (T. C. C. Sanger,
president of the Graziers’
Federal Council.)


To Be Published This Month
GREEN SPRIGS:-
CRICKET'S AGE OF YOUTH
by Ray Robinson
COLLINS
BRUSH UP ON SPORT
THE RATTLE OF THE STUMPS
By W. A. Oldfield
v n j fmlv dolisrhtful series of reminiscences of great cricketing occasions and person-
Sies but Jlmost a blueprint for the new generation of cricketers. 13/3 (post 7d.)
...
THIS IS GOLF By Louis F. Stanley
\ concise text and over 180 photographs of the world’s leading golfers in action make
this book invaluable to every golfer who wants to improve his game. 30/- (post lid.).
Write, ’phone or call in for these and all the .books you want—and be sure to ask for our
’ 1 Christmas catalogue . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : : 66-68 Elizabeth St,, Melbourne, C.l
touch upon the central theme; but
mostly David Rowbotham is trying,
not so much to think about Nature and
ploughmen, as to describe them.
The concluding lines of “The Plough-
man” are descriptive, and here, beautiful
as they are, begins that curious impres-
sion of strain, unhandiness, sometimes
outright clumsiness which to some
extent blurs the merits of the majority
of the poems:
The cool skies breathe mist on the sun,
and a bird
Leaps singing from a mulberry-tree; its
song
Is a legend on the ploughman’s cheek. He
fingers
His face and the beauty of the bird enters
With a shadow of wings the brown fields
of his eyes.
How does the song manage to sit on the
ploughman’s cheek? ‘
How does the other ploughman in “Nine
O’Clock,” to come to one of the typical
landscapes, manage to drag his plough
across “a face of virgin song”? The
meaning is clear enough—it is a reference
to the ancient forest—but the image is
not appropriate in its conlext.
Another characteristic weakness of
the verse in “Nine O’Clock” is the”
choice (when poetry is so much a search-
ing for the “right” word) of the word that
is obviously wrong, as when he writes
weakly of “heart-hopes prevalent when he
was young” and of one-time lovers’ “thin
remarks”; there is the straining for
expression among vague polysyllables as
in:
Wondering how long the aptitude to live
Shall save uprooted man, decimal creature
In the marathon world;
and there is an uncertainty of rhythm,
polysyllables sometimes slurred and
sometimes not, in which the pentameter
loses tension.
These weaknesses almost invariably
occur in poems where Rowbotham is
trying to paint a picture of a man or a
landscape, and it would seem that the
combined effort of making a picture
while attending to style, rhyme and
rhythm has been too much for him.
There is a lameness of style here which
would never occur in the same writer’s
short-stories, where a less-complicated
effort is demanded; and some of his
stories of the bush have, in fact, created
a more poetic effect than many of the
verses. One remembers, particularly, a
whisky-still in the mountains.
Nevertheless, with all its weaknesses,
“Nine O’Clock” remains a pleasant poem.
There are felicities (“dust, the red angel”)
to offset the weaknesses; there is a
homely accuracy of description:
The cream-van trundling to the low gate
shatters
Memory; takes on one meagre can from the
box;
there is a sympathetic portrayal of the
farmer whose “dry lips question
‘Rain?’”; and there is a total effect,
even though this poem happens to be a
study of failure, of warm and sturdy life
in the sunlit countryside.
And what is true of the total effect of
“Nine O’Clock” is also true —and often
with less to query—of the book as a
whole. To evoke this warmth of Aus-
tralian country life has been David Row-
botham's chief concern, and he has done
it not only with an appropriate warmth
of feeling, but with an unusual com-
pleteness, catching everything that is
significant both in the past and the pre-
sent. He gives us the explorers and
pioneers at the “Bull’s Head Inn”:
To the sign of the truculent bull the Leslies
rode,
Still vigorous from exploration; strode
Beneath the swinging banner, itself a dusty
Pioneer with hinges turning rusty,
And talked with Deuchar, Davidson, and
Bell
.... A Never-Never
Of undisciplined country slowly yielded to
toil
And to dreams one vast communion of soil
With heart, of immutable stone with
moulding hand —
A confirmation came into the land.
He gives us—an original and difficult
achievement in verse —intimate and
amusing pictures of smalltown worthies,
the shopkeepers and the aldermen (“Their
predecessors austerely framed upstairs”);
he discovers such- oddities as “Mr.
Richards,” who died up a chimney ; he
celebrates the homely virtues of the farm-
house kitchen and the cup-of-tea; he
encompasses the bush and the birds,
ploughing and harvesting, farmers and
their wives, childhood, manhood and old-
age, the whole sweep of country life where
the blue road goes
Swinging out to Warwick, sweeping by
To Toowoomba under the summer-purple
sky.
Reviewed Briefly
Susan, Bill and The Wolf Dog; and
Susan, Bill and the Ivy-Clad Oak:
Malcolm Saville (Nelson). Two little
books of a new series for children, with
colored frontispieces and black-and-white
illustrations by Ernest Shepherd. The
adventures of a boy and girl, neighbors
in an English country town, with angry
colonels, rectors, lost dogs, secret notes
left in the old oak tree, and fires lit by
enemies that disturb the local cricket-
match.
* * * *
Readings From Dickens: Emlyn Wil-
liams (Heinemann). With an introduction
by Bernard Darwin, in which he discusses
Dickens’s own readings, Mr. Williams’s
selections from them, and his additions
from Dickens’s other works. Mr. Wil-
liams adds a few words on the changes
and cuts he has made for his highly
successful revival of Dickens-readings in
England and America. The book in-
cludes “Moving in Society,” from Our
Mutual Friend; “Paul,” from Dombey
and Son ; Bob Sawyer’s “Bachelor Party”
and “Bardell versus Pickwick,” from
Pickwick Papers; “Mr. Chops” and “The
Signal Man,” from Christmas Stories;
“The Fancy Ball” and “Echoing Foot-
steps,” from The Tale of Two Cities;
“Youthful Reminiscences,” from David
Copperfield; “Once Upon a Time,” from
The Battle of Life ; “The Fall of Midas,”
from Little Dorrit; and “Mrs. Gamp,”
from Martin Chuzzlewit. The last 48
pages are devoted to an adaptation of
Bleak House for solo presentation in three
acts, which lists 36 characters in order of
presentation —quite a feat for just the
one single reader. There is a frontispiece
of Mr. Williams made up as Dickens for
his readings.
* * * *
Cricket My Happiness: A. A. Thomson
(Museum Press). The author, a Scot
brought-up in Yorkshire, has followed
cricket since 1902, and writes for “Punch”
and all the “light” journals—not
necessarily on cricket. This is a com-
panion-volume to Cricket My Pleasure.
It's a book of reminiscences, essays and
witty anecdotes, mostly about English
cricket and cricketers of ,an earlier
day; but the younger enthusiasts,
too, will be captivated. Cricket’s “Wars
of the Roses” bulk large. Victor
Trumper of the flashing blade is his
choice as symbol of Australia’s-- cricket.
Dedicated to “Sir Pelham Warner, that
‘vefray parfit gentil Knighte,’ ” the book
has an introduction by that other re-
doubtable old gentleman C. B. Fry. Fry
refers us to Aristotle for the distinction
between “pleasure” and “happiness,” as
posed by Thomson's two titles, and
concludes “It is a pleasure to meet with
a book which at once delights the literary
faculty and pleases the reader who knows
the game.” Little can be added to that.
* * * *
Kenya’s Warning: Christopher Wilson
(The English Press, Nairobi: African
and Colonial Press Agency, 8 Red Lion
Square, London). Dr. Wilson has been
in Kenya since 1911 ; he retired as Direc-
tor of Medical Services in 1933 ; and has
been member of the Legislative and
Executive Councils. In this survey of
the Mau-Mau and other problems of
administration he makes a fierce attack
upon “theorists in Britain,” and especially
on a 8.8. C. session in which, he con-
siders, the main speaker and investigator
was misled by representatives of the
natives over-anxious to put the case
against British administration.
# * ♦ *
We of the Never-Never: Mrs. /Eneas
Gunn (Hutchinson). A reprint of this
Australian classic, first printed in 1908.
Most Australians read Mrs. Gunn’s books
at school, first The Little Black Princess
and then this volume. We of the Never-
Never, re-read in this new reasonably
priced edition, cannot be too highly com-
mended to adults—there is a tremendous
amount of entertainment between its
covers and, more than that, the interest of
implication in the actual text, along with
comparison between life in the Northern
Territory fifty years ago and life there
today, when radio, flying-doctors, motor-
transport and other amenities have radic-
ally altered living conditions without,
one gathers, having really changed the
face of the country very much. This book
is, of course, supremely suitable for older
children, but it was not primarily written
for them, and its full interest can only be
communicated to mature readers.
* * * *
Way bent: i. C. Bradcock (Hutchinson).
After Cold Comfort Farm you’d wonder
how anyone could, but here it is again
the simple little romance which provides
a peg on which, as the blurb so rightly
says, is hung “realistically the country
scene, complete with its cruelties and
crudities, as well as with its beauty.”
The moult has taken the iridescence from
the plumage of the stare and the gaud from
the goldfinch, and sickly ammers sit, in
their drabness, “dreeping” upon the redden-
ing ends of the hawthorn-tips; hump-
backed and mazed, dozy as sun-drunk
bumble-bees in an ambel of angelica.
Another sample (Mr. Bradcock in-
cludes gipsies and such —something which
Stella Gibbons unaccountably omitted
from her skit):
“You shut up, you lubni. He’s after a
filly, not a mare,” he shouted back to the
van, and there was more laughter and
swearing and coarseness.
"One of old Dai Loveland’s girls, eh/
The young-’un, eh? A shukar rakli, that.
Gi’ me a fag, pral. Gi’ me fag. . .”
And, come the sukebindy spring again,
the hero Crink is happily reunited with
his shukar rakli who has worn his red
neckerchief during her caravan wander-
ings. All illustrated with pleasant wood-
cuts by Margaret Wetherbee.
* * * *
The Double Man: Helen Reilly
(Museum Press). Wife of a New Yorker
who is presumed lost at sea in a boat
goes to the little fishing village devoted
to artists where he was last seen ; she
does not believe he did it; she falls foi
her handsome scientist brother-in-law,
who is being cultivated by a beautiful
Spanish type, the sister of an artist. The
death of the rich patroness of the colony,
who by gifts and guarantees has got the
lives of many of the artists and writers
into her sharp claws, sets the investigation
going in earnest; and, although it is not
a brilliant thriller, it is at least not a bad
one.
* * * *
The Star men : Leigh Brackett (Museum
Press). “You understand the Vardda
position among all the other races of the
galaxy?”
“Yes. And I don’t see how 1 could
possibly alter it.”
“Then your understanding isn’t com-
plete. There are very many worlds in
space, Trehearne. Countless millions of
people live on them. Do you know how
they feel about us? They hate us.
They envy us ”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 304
Across
I—Horst1 —Horst may be the handiwork of
these Lilliputians who put dif-
ferent clothes on cheats. (5-8)
8— The middle of the Lofty fre-
quency is suggested. (3)
9 A proud, sleek, disorderly ranter
vital to radio. (4-7)
10 — Mary dispenses with my Moabite
city. (2)
11 — Engine inefficiency defeats intro-
ductions for road accidents. (5-5)
13 —Ukraine city. (4)
15 — Oldfield don’t lose the queen!
(6)
16 — Do America’s federal detectives
and domesticated werewolves hold
the fellows who ride on crane-
hooks? (6)
18 —Rows always expected of them,
yet so rare'among them. (6)
20—Steamer goes around the lake and
quenches thirst. (6)
23 — Delivery makes an actress named
Lucille dance for Macmahon. (4)
24 — A murderer named Jack that is
at the centre of such trifles. (10)
27 — The condition of the overhead.
(2)
28 — What may efface spoons for sight-
seers? (11)
29 — Phoebus, (3)
30 —Acting as an evil influence upon
base metal in the fuel salver.
(7, 6)
Down
1 — South people who consume white
wine as devices to produce bump-
less motoring. (5-9)
2 What a dejected batsman return-
ing to the pavilion has in pros-
pect. (7)
3 Several notes arriving at once.
(5)
4 >j o chant is required if sniffing.
(6)
5 More sheepish pitcher? (4)
6 Religion initiating several Indian
kingdoms, hence initiating several
more. (7)
7 —My chauffeur, you duffer, is doing
it —and so are these mind-shat-
tering puzzles. (7, 2,5)
9 —Australia’s lowest point. (4, 4)
12—Completed bowling spell. (4)
14 —Utensil to ease the postscript
everlastingly. (3, 5)
17 —Ditherers are often in this sound
made by a damp sheet or sail in
the wind. (4)
19 —p u t a new tag on an ancient
murder victim about 50 just
before it. (7)
21—Cross is in thi« snip. (7)
22—1000 dollars to one that this is
an Italian soprano named Mar-
garita. (6) .
25 An out-and-out, thoroughgoing,
good-of-its-kind Anglo-Indian.
(5)
26 — Wager against a character that
runs in front of Delta, but is
badly beat. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 303


A
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman St„ South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield,
Maryvale and Broadford (Vic.),
Botany (N.S.W. ).
TREES FOREVER
Manufacture of wood-pulp
opened a new era for the
Australian Paper Industry
A view of a pine nursery of A.P.M. Forests Pty. Ltd.,
showing some of the millions of seedlings which have
been planted out.
By ivise use of forest resources
Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd. has created a source of
national tvealth , and at the same time is ADDING to the total of
first-class forest areas.
ONE of Australia’s most remarkable industrial
achievements is the manufacture of pulp suitable for
the making of paper products used in wrapping and
packaging. These products require a strong pulp known
as Kraft.
Before 1939 Australia was
entirely dependent upon overseas
supplies of such pulp for paper-
making, but in that year the
Maryvale, Gippsland (Vic.) pulp
mill began production of pulp at
the rate of 500 tons per week,
using Australian Eucalypt hard-
wood as the raw material. Today,
the mill is turning out over 1000
tons of kraft pulp a week entirely
from Eucalypt hardwoods, in addi-
tion to some 400 tons of softwood
pulp from locally grown pines.
This pulp is now used for making
a very wide range of papers of
uniformly high quality.
The establishment of the Aus-
tralian Kraft pulp making industry
in 1939 opened a new era for the
expansion of the Australian paper
industry.
A.P.M. today is the principal
manufacturer and supplier, directly
or indirectly, of the bulk of the
paper and cardboard used for
packaging purposes in Australia.
There is hardly a factory, a shop
or a home which does not use an
A.P.M. product in some form
every day.
AUSTRALIAN
PIONEERS
A.P.M. is a primary as well as
a secondary industry. Its work
in pioneering and establishing the
manufacture of kraft wood-pulp
from Australian eucalypt timbers
has gained world-wide recognition.
A.P.M.’s requirements of pulp-
wood are of the order of 200,000
tons per year. The procurement
of this amount of timber requires
a large labor force and heavy
logging equipment.
A royalty is paid for all timber
cut from State forests, but the
company owns some eucalyptus
forest areas of its own. As these
company-owned forests are cleared
of pulp - wood, silvicultural
methods are adopted that are
expected to increase the growth
to two or three times the natural
rate.
8,000 ACRES
OF PINE TREES
In recent years the company
started a pine planting pro-
gramme by which it hopes within
20 years to make itself partly
independent of overseas long-fibre
pulps. In Gippsland over 8000
acres of pines have been planted
since the programme was started
in 1950. A small pine plantation
has also been purchased in N.S.W.
and is being developed. The com-
pany’s forestry subsidiary has
adopted the slogan “Trees For-
ever.” As a result of activities
in eucalyptus forests and in pine
plantations, pulpwood is being
grown at a faster rate than it is
being used.
HOW PULP
IS MADE
To make pulp from the timber,
the billets are first cut into small
chips and the chips then cooked
under pressure with white liquor
which is a solution of caustic
soda and sodium sulphide in
water. The cooking dissolves the
encrusting material from the chips,
leaving the cellulose fibres in a
free state.
The fibres (or pulp) are then
washed free of chemicals and
coloring matter and can then be
sent to the paper mill, the bleach
plant, or the Kamyr machines to
be lapped for transport to other
mills. The wash liquors contain-
ing the chemicals and the dis-
solved organic material from the
wood are then evaporated and the
organic material burnt in a
special boiler where most of the
process steam required is gen-
erated. The chemicals run from
this furnace in a molten state;
they are then dissolved in water,
causticised with lime and re-used
again in the cooking process.
The company operates its own
quarry at Buchan to supply lime-
stone, which is burnt at the mill
to form the lime for causticising.
An electrolytic plant is being
installed to produce chlorine and
caustic soda from salt. The
chlorine will be used for bleach-
ing the kraft pulp and some of the
caustic soda used as a make-up
chemical in the pulp mill.
The company operates a small
salt works on the shores of Lake
Alexandrina, South Australia,
from which salt will be supplied
to the chlorine plant.
Another development by the
company has been the utilisation
of raw brown coal as a fuel for
industry. A.P.M. is the largest
industrial user of brown coal. It
draws brown coal from the State
Electricity Commission of Vic-
toria for its Maryvale Mill, and
provides the coal to its other
Victorian mills from an open-cut
at Bacchus Marsh operated by a
subsidiary.
This subsidiary company also
supplies substantial tonnages of
brown coal for industry generally
in the Melbourne area and has
recently obtained a contract from
the State Electricity Commission
of Victoria to supply up to
200,000 tons a year of brown coal
to the Commission’s new power
station at Ballarat. The current
production for all purposes is at
the rate of about 450,000 tons a
year.
DECENTRALISED
INDUSTRY
In Victoria A.P.M.’s activities
provide an example of decen-
tralisation. In addition to the
mills in the Melbourne area, it
has the pulp and paper mill at
Maryvale, a board mill at Broad-
ford, a brown coal open cut at
Bacchus Marsh and pine plan-
tations and eucalyptus forests in
Gippsland. The company has
built some 800 houses for its
employees in the towns of
Traralgon, Morwell, Broadford,
Tyers and others.
In the defence of Australia
A.P.M. has an important role.
Not only were its products for
wrapping and packaging required
to the full during the last war,
but the company also produced
9000 tons of dissolving pulps from
pine for the manufacture of
explosives.
Without the products supplied
by A.P.M. Australia would have
had to use valuable shipping space
to bring supplies from overseas.
The company has a large re-
search organisation. An example
of the work of research is pro-
vided by the success in developing
to a semi-commercial stage, a pro-
cess for making from eucalypts,
pulps suitable for the manu-
facture of rayon and tyre yarn.
SV2 MILLION
PAYROLL
In tiie aggregate A.P.M. Is big
by Australian standards, but its
ownership represents the pooling
of resources by almost 30,000
stock and debenture holders.
Many of these individual in-
vestors are companies, associations
or trustees, each again represent-
ing many individuals. Without
doubt well over 50,000 individuals
are concerned directly or in-
directly in owning A.P.M. Over
98 per cent, of the moneys in-
vested in A.P.M. have been pro-
vided from Australian sources. It
is a collective effort of Aus-
tralian people.
A.P.M. is the direct employer
of some 5400 people. In addition
there are dependent on A.P.M.
not only the many thousands who
provide raw materials to the com-
pany, but also large numbers
engaged in the various industries
which convert A.P.M.’s products.
This year the company’s wages
bill will amount to some
£5,500,000, and the company
will spend twice as much in the
purchase of raw materials, sup-
plies and services the greater
part in Australia,
The pulp and paper mill of A.P.M. Ltd., at Maryvale,
near Traralgon (Gippsland).
The Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd., situated on the shores of Botany Boy (N.S.W.).
Australian Paper Manufacturers
Limited is the oldest established
Australian paper producer and
had a capital of about £2,000,000
fifteen years ago. Today it has
over £20,000,000 invested in
plant and buildings, and now has
a pulp mill with a capacity of
75,000 tons of pulp and 14 paper
and board machines capable of
producing over 200,000 tons
yearly. These mills are located
in N.S.W. and Victoria.
AN ESSENTIAL
INDUSTRY
The range of products for
which A.P.M. provides the raw
material is wide. The convertors
which A.P.M, serve make such
products as solid and corrugated
fibre containers, multi-wall bags
such as are used for cement and
fertilisers, cartons of all grades,
set-up boxes, fibre drums, sisal
kraft for sacking, water-resistant
wrappings and the like, match-
boxes, cigarette packets, envelopes,
duplicating and blotting papers
and a host of other products.
It can be truly said that the
Australian paper industry is an
essential national industry, both in
time of peace, and from the view-
point of defence.
