

THE HOUSE
w
ŵ
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO • ROYAL PURPLE PARA
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY • GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75-No. 3899
Wednesday, November 3, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE Isle of Skye, largest of the Inner
Hebridean Islands, is famous through-
out the world, not only for its magnificent
mountain scenery, for its close associa-
tions with Bonnie Prince Charlie and
Flora MacLeod of MacLeod, who has the
sion of historic Dunvegan Castle. For
centuries this great fortress has been the
ancestral home of the chiefs of the Clan
MacLeod and today it is occupied by
Flora MacLeod of MacLeod who has the
unusual Highland distinction of being a
lady chief of a great clan. The love of
the Highlander for his homeland is
proverbial, and on two occasions in the
past MacLeods from, many lands have
been received at a great family gathering
at Dunvegan Castle.
The history of Dunvegan is the his-
tory of the Hebrides, which were under
Norse domination from the eighth cen-
tury until 1266, when Magnus-Jarl
abandoned all claim to these islands.
The Castle probably originated before
the tenth century as a single tower with
a sea-gate. In succeeding centuries,
however, it passed through many stages
of development and today it is a splendid
example of the craftsmanship of many
generations of castle-builders.
The Castle stands twenty-two miles
from Portree on a spur of rock which
rises above Dunvegan Loch. At one time
the castle was accessible only from the
sea by a portcullised gateway. Today,
however, entrance is gained by a bridge
across a ravine which originally served
as a moat. The walls of the fifteenth
century tower are ten feet thick, and
below are the dungeons in which a Mac-
Leod is reputed to have imprisoned his
beautiful wife.
Dunvegan was visited by Dr. Johnson
in 1773 and by Sir Walter Scott in 1815,
and their letters referring to their visits
are exhibited within the Castle. The most
interesting and valued exhibit, however,
is the Fairy Flag of mysterious origin
and on whose safe-keeping, according to
tradition, depends the family fortune.
Many legends are associated with this
ancient banner, now brown with age,
which is said to have been taken from a
Saracen chief by one of the MacLeods
during the Crusades.
During the Napoleonic Wars the Isle of
Skye supplied the British army with the
surprising total of seventy-one generals
and other high-ranking officers, one-
hundred-and-seventy pipers and ten-
thousand foot-soldiers.
TURRETTED DUNVEGAN. HOME OF THE MACLEOD OF MACLEOD


ACHIEVE SUCCESS
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
■ CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2054) AGE.
BOOKHUNTER, 40 Mona Road, Darling
Point, will find the book you want—fiction,
snort, history, science, textbooks, classics or
ecclesiastics. * Write BOOKHUNTER now.
Quick service, moderate charges.
The Red Page
THE BRITISH WEST INDIES
The West Indies offer the advantage to
the historian that their story comprises
only the 462 years since 1492, when
Columbus landed on Guan'ahani, which
he named San Salvador and which is now
Watling Island, in the Bahamas. But
otherwise they present a multitude of
difficulties. In his 800-page History of the
British West Indies (Allen and Unwin)
Sir Alan Burns lists 28 islands and groups
of islands as “the most important” of
thousands; besides these there are the
settlements on the top of South America,
the Guianas and “The Spanish Main”
(which is not the sea, but the South
American mainland from the mouth of
the Orinoco to Panama); and the settle-
ments on the isthmus from Panama to
Yucatan.
During their history possession of
these areas has been disputed by Spanish,
British, French and Dutch. Any little
war or dissatisfaction among nations in
Europe was sufficient to send their
privateers and navies in the Indies off
upon conquests. Islands were taken,
sacked, and put under cultivation by new
owners, only to be handed back to their
former owners under the terms of the
treaty that concluded the European war ;
and this happened again and again in
war after war. Moreover, most of the
main islands and settlements developed
their own Governments and administered
their own laws. So many changes of
ownership spread out, even in the British
possessions, among so many different
Administrations and Governments, make
a smooth historical progression almost
impossible ; and Sir Alan has had to chop
his general narrative up under headings
as developments in various islands bring
them into the record.
This might have made for a dull history
if it had not been a history of the West
Indies, where, for three-hundred years,
the cannon almost uninterruptedly went
“Tirduf! Tirduf!” as Slessor’s poem
“The Seaflight” has it, where the leading
actors were often great names on their
way in x or out of history; and where
everything happened with the crudity,
violence and color characteristic of Euro-
peans on a holiday from civilisation.
The Spaniards killed off the aboriginal
Arawaks of the islands and the Caribs of
the mainland with a Hitlerian ferocity —
one of their pleasures was to roast Caribs
on a kind of gridiron over a slow fire —
so that by as early as 1510 the King of
Spain licensed the negro trade to keep
up the supply of labor for mines and
plantations. It was as a slave-trader
that the first great Englishman appeared
in the West Indies when, in the 1560’5,
Hawkins offered slaves and merchandise
to towns on the Spanish Main in
exchange for gold and silver, threatening
to attack the towns if they would not
trade.
Drake was a captain in Hawkins’s
fleet on one of these expeditions, and
unaccountably deserted him; he came
back later to prey on Spanish treasure
by sea and land. Raleigh made the disas-
trous expedition to colonise Guiana which
cost him his son’s life and his own head.
Morgan the buccaneer performed the
witty deeds of blood that won him the
favor of Charles II and the Lieutenant-
Governorship of Jamaica. Vice-Admiral
Benbow took on a French fleet single-
handed on the way to Cartagena,
when his well-bred captains refused to
follow him into battle—perhaps because
he was a tanner’s son who had risen
from cabin-boy—after which the French
admiral sent him a letter of condolence.
Hood brilliantly evaded superior French
forces by cutting his cables and slipping
out of a St. Kitts bay at night, whereupon
his fellow-admiral, Rodney, censured him
in a letter to the Admiralty for leaving
his anchors to be taken by the enemy.
Nelson escorted transports from
Jamaica to attack the Moskito Coast. He
married Mrs. Nisbet, widowed niece of
the president of the council, on Nevis,
one of the Leeward Islands. Off Nevis,
Nelson had to stay two months on H.M.S.
Boreas to escape arrest on an action
brought by American captains he had
ordered, under the terms of the British
Navigation Act, not to trade there; and
later in his career he chased about the
West Indies from Barbados to Trinidad
to Antigua looking for Villeneuve on his
way to Trafalgar. Another well-known
name connects Australia with the West
Indies: Edward John Eyre, resident
magistrate and protector of aborigines in
Australia in 1836, Lieutenant-Governor
of lsfew Zealand in 1846, was in 1862
made Lieutenant-Governor of Jamaica,
and later Governor. The negroes
expected from his previous career more
sympathy and understanding than they
got from him. Sir Alan considers that
Eyre first underestimated the negroes’
poverty and then, when the negroes
(Maroons) rioted, carried whippings and
executions under martial law to excess ;
though the feeling at the time, even
among responsible negroes in Jamaica,
was that Eyre had saved the population
from “massacre.”
Not the least of the famous names
associated with the West Indies is that of
the Duke of Windsor, Governor of the
Bahamas from 1940 to 1945; Queen
Elizabeth stayed there on her way to
Australia ; and now Princess Margaret is
to make a visit. The British West Indies
have particular cause to be grateful to
the British Crown. From very early in
the piece various British islands had had
their own elected Assemblies; that in
Jamaica was set up in 1661 by Colonel
D’Oyley (the next Governor was Lord
Windsor, who gave every inhabitant
twelve acres). Set aside by Morgan’s
friend, Governor Modyford, the Assem-
bly had by 1681 successfully challenged
the right of the Crown to dictate its
decisions, and thereafter did pretty
much as it pleased, contradicting one
day what it had voted the day before,
rioting, refusing to pass Revenue Acts,
taking a strong line with Governors
(though not going as far as Antigua,
where Governor Parke was murdered
during a difference of opinion with the
Assembly), and representing so privileged
a class that in Jamaica in 1863 there were
only 1799 registered electors in a popu-
lation of 450,000.
In common with the other British pos-
sessions, the Legislature of Jamaica
opposed tooth-and-nail the freeing of
slaves until the British House of Com-
mons increased the amount of compensa-
tion proposed, whereupon “colonial
Legislatures hastened to pass the laws
which would entitle the owners to com-
pensation.” More than £16,500,000 com-
pensation was paid to West Indies owners
for some 668,000 slaves when they were
freed on July 31, 1834. A great many of
the freed slaves were still bound to a six-
years’ apprenticeship, policed by magis-
trates employed from Britain; but the
owners could still be difficult over matters
of hours of work and, once a slave had
been committed to prison, could flog
him and torture him on the treadmill
under Jamaican law.
By 1838, the Assembly was out-of-
hand ; there was talk of “an insurrection
for the pleasure of destroying the negroes
and missionaries. They are, in fact,
mad.” The price of sugar was falling.
By the 1850’s the land was going out of
cultivation, emancipated negroes were
destitute, and island treasuries were
almost bankrupt. A rumor that went
round in 1848 that the United States
would be asked to take over Jamaica
caused consternation among the negroes,
for slavery was still legal in the U.S. All
these things led to the negro insurrection
of 1865 which was suppressed by Eyre,
and which changed the Assembly’s atti-
tude from truculence to panic; and it
was in these circumstances that the
Assembly adopted Eyre’s suggestion, and
voted itself out in favor of a Legislative
Council (1866) “to consist of six officials
and an unspecified number of other
nominated members.” The Virgin Islands,
Monserrat and Dominica had already
done the same thing; and St. Vincent,
Tobago, St. Kitts, Nevis, Antigua and
British Honduras followed suit, all with
slight differences of reconstitution.
So that in the West Indies the usual
story of the slow evolution of British
colonies from home-government to self-
government was reversed, and Britain
took back Parliamentary government
from a British community; here, if any-
where, was demonstrated the value of
the Crown to Britain, which both
planters and negroes could trust, who
could not trust each other; and those
who resent British authority in the West
Indies today should consider that but for
the British Crown the inhabitants of
British possessions there might have been
surrendered, black and white alike, to the
bloody anarchy of Haiti.
For the French were by no means so
consistent; the adherents of the French
Revolution in the French West Indies
were much puzzled to know whether the
new freedom proclaimed in France
extended to negro slaves, and the French
Government changed its mind often and
often on this difficult matter. , .
West Indian history abounds in
curiosities: the fabulous island of Fon-
seca, for instance, granted by Charles 1
to the Earl of Montgomery in 1628 and
shown on Atlantic maps until 1866. Rum
was first called “rumbullion”;
“The chiefe fuelling they make in the
hand is Rumbullion, alias Kill Divill, and
this is made of Suggar cones distilled, a
hott hellish and terrible liquor.”
That was about 1650, in which year
British Royalists and British Roundheads
fought for possession of Barbados, the
Royalists winning and banishing about
100 planters to England and sequestrating
their properties. In 1655 an expedition
sent by Cromwell to attack Hispaniola
had a recruiting-officer so drunk that on
St. Kitts he “fell from his horse and
vomited in the presence of jeering
French officers.” Tobacco was grown
successfully in England before the West
Indian colonies were settled ; and to pro-
tect the Bermudan and Virginian
planters, it was ordered in 1625, and
enacted in 1660, that tobacco must not
be planted in England or Ireland, A
Barbados Governor of 1694 had free
transport for his equipage of two coaches*
21 horses, 32 servants and 20 chaldrons
of coals; and the Barbados Government
stocked a Governor’s cellar in 1702 with
four pipes of Madeira, two hogsheads of
claret, a tun of ale, two gross bottled ale,
one gross Rhenish wine, two gross bottles
of cider, 2001 b. refined sugar, one gross
bottle Canary wine and a quarter-cask
of brandy.
Some buccaneers had chaplains on their
ships, and a Captain Daniel, observing
one of his crew behaving improperly
while Mass was being said by a priest he
had invited aboard, drew his pistol and
shot the man dead. A buccaneer called
Swan died fighting in Nicaragua at the
age of 84. In 1676, the people of the
Bahamas
were “living a lewd licentious sort of life”
and “were impatient under Government.
[Governor] Chiliingsworth could not bring
them to reason. They assembled tumultu-
ously, seized him, shipped him off for
Jamaica, and lived every man as he thought
best for his pleasure and interest.”
In the Jamaican earthquake of 1692
“dogs came and eat” people caught in
the cracks in the earth. In 1696 a French
fleet of buccaneers under French Govern-
ment orders sacked the Spanish town of
Cartagena ; an English fleet brought some
of them to action, capturing two and run-
ning two aground; but the main fleet
escaped with a great haul of booty to
France—which shows that hijacking (the
appropriation by one robber of another’s
booty) is much older than U.S. Prohibi-
tion. In 1690 Captain Jones, appointed
Governor of the pirate-lair of New Provi-
dence in the Bahamas, kept the guns of
a ship commanded by his son trained on
the Council Chamber; in 1700, the
the Speaker of the New Providence
Assembly forced his way into Govern-
ment House and broke the Governor’s
head with the butt of his pistol. In 1713,
at Utrecht, an Asiento Treaty was signed
on behalf of their British and Spanish
Majesties, by which the King of Spain
gave a British company the monopoly
of supplying “144,000 negroes, piezas
de India, of both sexes, and of all ages”
within thirty years ; a pieza de India being
a “prime” slave, from 15 to 30 years old,
strong and well-built, and worth 33|
pieces-of-eight each.
An effort to settle Scots at Darien in
1697 failed ; there were several expedi-
tions, repulsed by Spaniards, disowned
by King William, and later wrecked and
ravaged by disease. In 1730 the Maroons
(descendants of negro slaves who had
escaped from Spanish masters) defeated
an armed party of the white militia of
Jamaica ; by 1732 the militia captured
their principal settlements, and in 1739
concluded an agreement which guaran-
teed the Maroons their freedom and pos-
session of a certain amount of land. In
the early 1700’s the white women of
Barbados were reported to be “very
homely and great Swearers,” and
Governor Phenney of the Bahamas lost
his job because his wife forced traders to
sell her their cargoes, which she retailed
at high prices, and also because she
insulted judges, browbeat juries and had
differences with other ladies of ye
island.” A woman slave was burned
alive in Bermuda at about this time, upon
discovery of a plot among the slaves to
poison all the whites.
The Jenkins of the “War of Jenkins’s
Ear” was a captain “of questionable
reputation” whose ship was searched in
1731 for contraband by Spanish guarda-
dacostas in the West Indies; they cut off
his ear and told him to take it to England
as warning to British breakers of trade-
laws. When France joined Spain in 1744,
a British man-of-war sent a barge ashore
at St. Kitts to impress some of the 1000
privateers on that island for an invasion
of the French island of St. Martin: the
privateers seized the barge, and “having
with infinite labor got her into the middle
of the town, made her full of punch,
and were very merry on the occasion.”
When the British sacked Havana in 1762,
during the Seven Years’ War, the general
and the admiral commanding each got
£122,697 prize-money, while seamen and
privates got less than £5 each. Attempts
were even made to deny the privates of
those times the home-comfort of having
their firearms carried by slaves.
The story is also of the English log-
wood cutters (it was used to dye wool)
who went to Yucatan soon after the
British capture of Jamaica in 1655, and
hung on for centuries against the Spanish,
gradually gaining themselves recognition
under a Superintendent—from 1814 to
1822 he was Colonel George Arthur, later
Governor of Tasmania —and then becom-
ing the State of British Honduras. And
then there was the curious situation in
which General Picton found himself
placed, on the capture of Trinidad in
1797, of having to allow the torture of
a woman accused of robbery because his
instructions were to administer the island
according to Spanish law.
Though, as to tortures, the British were
not exactly the clean-potato; a common
way they had with errant slaves was to
sentence them to be “cut to pieces”;
some plantation-owners wondered what
the world was coming to when their
right to give slaves 365 lashes was ques-
tioned; but the British never quite
achieved the virtuosity of the Spanish,
who, according to the Venetian Ambassa-
dor to England in 1604, cut off hands,
feet, noses and ears of Englishmen in the
Indies, smeared them with honey, tied
them to trees, and left them to the ants...
These are only a few of the fruits
shaken from the tree on which Sir Alan
Burns has so carefully placed them: no
ordinary review could suggest the com-
pression, the wide comprehension, the
patience, the orderliness and the ease of
his complicated survey. He stops at 1900,
giving thereafter a mere calendar of
events ; and the huge book is completed
with appendices of places, hurricanes,
Spanish and English cruelty, treaties,
declarations, regiments. Governors, and
books quoted ; an index of persons and
a large general index.
Enid Bagnold
Enid Bagnold’s latest novel, The Loved
and the Envied, has won her many
admirers among a generation who have
not had an opportunity of obtaining her
earlier work. Now one big book, The
Girl’s Journey (Heinemann), brings be-
tween the same covers The Happy
Foreigner (1920) and The Squire (1938),
together with a critical foreword by
Arthur Calder-Marshall, who quotes a
long letter from the author in answer to
his request to her for autobiographical
information. A point he fails to make,
however, is that Miss Bagnold, who m
private life is Lady Roderick Jones, has
contrived a lifetime of craftsmanlike
writing in between bringing up four
children and being wife to the former
principal proprietor of Reuters—Sir
Roderick Jones succeeded Baron Herbert
de Reuter in that job. . .
As Calder-Marshall points out in his
foreword, both novels in this volume are
the result of accumulated personal
experience. The author was herself a
voluntary driver with the French army at
(i Continued on page 35)


"3 m
i m
■
mmm
iMWHi
m j
MB
' ' ..... '"> A.
Swsw
!
mhhhhhi
IgssW
' ' :
m
ss¥s
• • •
<M
MWiWm
mm. m
<i%>< '■'
wmr
wmm&*-'
* *
You’re in step with comfort...
in
shoes from the ground floor at Anthony Horderns 9
Our Shoe Department can boast of more famous brands than any other department in Sydney. Come in and see our
huge new range of Summer Sandals. Illustrated above: Cherry calf plaited moccasins. Crepe rubber
soles and heels. Full and half sizes. Priced at 59/6. Lay-by these shoes now for Christmas Gifts.
Casuals. Moccasin front. Black or tan. Flex
sewn leather soles. Available in tan with crepe
soles at 59/6. Ordinary leather soles at 49/-
Slippers. Two popular stylesr—Albert or Grecian.
Both styles in either black or tan. Full and half
sises. Priced at 36/'. Pump soles priced at 52/6
m
Sandals. For casual wear. Tan or cherry calf.
Full leather soles and heels. Available in full and
half sises. Priced at only 49/6 pr.
I
Sports Shoe. Tan calf. Derby, lace-up front. Full crepe rubber soles and heels. Avail'
able in full and half sizes. Attractively priced at only 59/6.
Sandals. Tan leather. Genuine welted leather soles make these an outstanding buy. In
medium or wide fittings. Crepe at 61/'. Leather at 53/6.
Slippers. Famous “Street” Slippers with stout leather soles. In tan or black leather and in
full and half sizes. Last for years. Only 49/6.
A
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns,
w
AVAILABLE FROM OUR GROUND FLOOR MEN’S SHOE DEPARTMENT.
BOX 2712, G.P.O.
v o *v -


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 3, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3899
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H, K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
“Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE SMEAR TECHNIQUE
In a realm of politics in which almost everything seems
unreal it is difficult to decide which is the more extra-
ordinary—the matter in the speech of the Leader of the
Opposition in the House of Representatives in which
he tried to defend himself for his actions before the
Royal Commission on Espionage, or the proceedings
of the A.L.P. Federal Executive in dealing with his
case.
Dr. Evatt’s effort in Parliament perhaps may be
pardoned, since desperate men use desperate remedies,
and everything the Doctor has done is in line with
the methods which he and his associates have always
used when attacked or criticised. He turns the issue
by smearing his critic.
When the unfortunate A. M. Blain, M.P. for the
Northern Territory, sought to ask questions about some
of Dr. Evatt’s associations and actions, and particularly
about a letter which his private-secretary, Alan Dalziel,
had written advocating the establishment of the Russian
social system in Australia, Mr. Blain was at once
accused in the House of having shown his gold-pass
to the Japanese with a view to gaining favors from
them —an accusation quite baseless, without a
scintilla of qvidence behind it, directed against a sick
soldier who had just come out of a Japanese prison
in which he had been immured, having saved his head
by a miracle. But Dr. Evatt and his associates
succeeded in having Mr. Dalziel, and the other matters
which had been raised, subordinated to the accusations
against Mr. Blain himself. And in the outcome Blain,
not Evatt, was inquired into.
In the present case Dr. Evatt and his supporters
have used the same technique.
Dr. Evatt was discovered collaborating with the
Communists in smearing a royal commission consisting
of three distinguished judges, in all of whom his own
Government had shown, at various times, the greatest
confidence by securing or asking their services for
special assignments. There was little doubt about
the fact that the Communists’ witness changed
his line of statement to suit Dr. Evatt’s charges. There
was no doubt that in the sittings of the commission Dr.
Evatt sat beside the Communist counsel, who is
secretary of the Victorian branch of the party, con-
sulted with him, prompted him in cross-examination,
joked with him and generally associated with him.
There was no doubt that the issue of whether Dr.
Evatt’s secretaries had been named was a very small
ingredient in his incentives or his operations covering
ridiculous charges summarised by the royal commis-
sioners as “blackmail, forgery, uttering, fabrication,
fraud and conspiracy,” all varying in content and
violence and unbacked by anything but the products
of Dr. Evatt’s imagination and vehemence.
Also it is beyond question that his association with
the Communists in the. matter, no less than his
deliberate flouting of the decision of caucus to support
the Petrov commission and its acceptance unanimously
of the members whose names were included in the
Royal Commission Act, was a serious breach of the
rules and decisions of the Australian Labor Party.
But Dr. Evatt has succeeded —and the technique is
copied from the Commuhists, like other things about
his actions —in turning the issue by smearing his
accusers savagely and bringing them to trial, while it
appears that the A.L.P. Executive is perfectly prepared
to let him go scot-free in the matter.
The Catholic group, which has been just as openly
Catholic and just as fanatically anti-Communist for
years as it is at present, stands charged with anything
Dr. Evatt can think of. The leading members of the
Victorian A.L.P. Executive are up for trial on charges
laid by Dr. Evatt, who is obviously out, with the
backing of a coterie of interested Victorian unions, to
destroy the present control which is opposed to him
and substitute a body servile to his wishes. What Mr.
Menzies called his “inglorious and discreditable per-
formance before the royal commission.... a smearing
campaign, in which he has had the enthusiastic support
of the Communist press” has become with “Labor” a
sort of side-issue.
Yet there has been nothing more blatant in
political history in Australia, no project more
unworthy, more subversive to the interest and safety
of Australia, than this extraordinary association by the
leader of a great party, a former High Court judge,
and a —once —potential Prime Minister, with the smear
activities of a disloyal body which operates in defence
matters (in his own words, written in one of the rare
moments when he has not been publicly plugging for
freedom of speech or liberty for Moscow’s agents)
“for the sole purpose of defeating the Australian
defence policy in the interests of a foreign Power.”
But the spectacle does not seem to affect the feelings
of the soulless careerist and opportunist junta which
controls the machine that once used to be the proud
Labor party. It is quite content to go all the way in
slander with its leader.
Most decent Australians could say with the Prime
Minister that nothing can do more harm to the safety
of Australia than wanton and groundless smearing of
the Security Service, the ability of which to deal with
Russian machinations in this country has been
demonstrated amply already by the evidence produced
before the royal commission. Equally, most would also
agree that they could not have believed it possible that
the leader of a political party would have worked so
hard to destroy men on pretexts which seem like some-
thing out of either Moscow or a lunatic-asylum.
The only thing more fantastic than Dr. Evatt’s
proceedings are those of the heads of his organisation
who are prepared to swallow him—like a large section
of the daily press, which, if it were responsible, would
have driven him out of public life weeks ago as the
result of his Mad Hatter goings-on.
N.S.W. Liberals Have a Plan
The New South Wales Liberals have been having a
stocktaking to mark the tenth anniversary of their
party’s emergence from the gaggle of groups that
littered the political landscape when the United Aus-
tralia party came untied. Although its members can
rejoice that the Federal wing of the party has been
in office for half the period of its existence, that is
cold comfort for the undeniable fact that in the New
South Wales Parliament it has spent the whole 10 years
on the Opposition benches. Those whose Parliamentary
life goes back to U.A.P. days can add another three
years to that, and the present Assembly has a further
18 months to run.
With such a long record of hope deferred it would
not be surprising if the party had become conditioned
to accepting the role of permanent Opposition, and
there have been times in the last few years when it
has seemed that this was the case. An unavoidable
corollary of this would be the acceptance of a per-
manent Cahill-Heffron Socialist Government—a fate
which not even the long-suffering electors of New
South Wales really deserve —so there is some consola-
tion in the thought that the Liberals are now determined
that the next 18 months will see the end of their period
in the wilderness. They are, indeed, already planning
their election campaign and formulating the policy
they will follow if they succeed in prising the Cahills
off the Treasury benches.
Looking back over the long years of “Labor”
misrule in New South Wales it is difficult to see how
an electorate, allegedly adult, educated and intelligent,
could have maintained the McKell-McGrrrrr-Cahill
dynasty in office for so long. But maintain them it
has, and this prompts the salutary thought that in
aspiring to put an end to the long run the Liberals (with
their Country-party allies) have a formidable task
ahead of them.
If Admiral McGrrrrr and Premier Cahill ever get
together nowadays to talk of old times and battles past
they must marvel at the narrow escapes they had
midway in their career.
As long ago as 1947 their stocks began to fall; at
the election in that year “Labor” lost several seats and
had its majority reduced in most electorates. Between
then and the 1950 election public opinion swung
strongly against “Labor,” and three seats. Concord,
Coogee and Kogarah, were lost to the Liberals at by-
elections. Obviously something had to be done, so a
redistribution was ordered, with the result that four
country seats were wiped out and eight seats created
in the Sydney-Newcastle area, those in the latter city
being passed-off as “country” seats, although their
population was predominantly industrial. Of the four
seats eliminated two were comfortably held by the
Country party and two precariously held by “Labor” —
certain losses with the slightest change of wind.
The boundaries having been thus satisfactorily
adjusted attention was directed to the electoral laws.
Postal-votes, someone suggested, had always favored
the Liberals, Away with them! Another innovation,
designed to prevent last-minute “spills,” was the Press
Gag Act, which had better be called the McGrrrrr
Press Gag to distinguish it from the Cahill Press Gag,
an even more notorious bill introduced last year. The
McGrrrrr Gag forbade any discussion of an election
in a newspaper during the last three days before
polling-day.
Even after all these precautions “Labor” nearly
lost the 1950 election. Scores: 46 all, with two
unendorsed “Labor” men holding the balance. This
precarious toehold Was mainlined throughout the life
of the Parliament, which was noteworthy mainly for
the long intervals between its sitting-days and for the
prodigal scattering of vote-catching but unfinished
public works all over the State. Even though electoral
memories are short it should hardly be necessary to
recall that the Cahills made great use of these unfinished
works at the 1953 election, accusing the Menzies
Government of starving the State in the matter of
loan-money and of deliberately attempting to build up
an unemployment pool to force down living-standards.
The Cahills themselves contributed to unemploy-
ment by closing-down many of their projects and dis-
missing thousands of men on the plea of “no money,”
yet the Auditor-General’s report shows that the
financial year 1952-53 closed with £6,929,394 loan-
money unspent. Still, the story had served its purpose
of panicking the people into giving Cahill a majority
once more, and the way was clear for him to bring
in his Compulsory Unionism Bill (not mentioned on
the hustings) and his “reform” of the Sydney City
Council—chief result, apart from ensuring “Labor”
control, the election for the first time of two Communist
aldermen. Which brings us back to the Liberals and
their programme.
According to president Lyle Moore, a Liberal
Government would repeal compulsory unionism and
restore the local principle to local government by
reversing the policy of amalgamations introduced bv
Cahill, first as Minister for Local Government and
then as Premier. Both these resolves are worthy ones,
and are almost essential in any party offering itself as
an alternative Government in New South Wales. Their
object is to repair damage done by years of “Labor”-
Socialist experiment. But a party must also put forward
elements of constructive policy. On this side the
Liberals propose to put a stop to the tendency towards
State landlordism through the Housing Commission
by directing the flow of credit for home-construction
“primarily through the building-societies towards
home-ownership for the average family.” They also
plan “to release the many hundreds of building-blocks
which the Cahill Government has compulsorily
acquired and has no practical intention of using.”
The programme’s expressed intention of bringing
the principles of business management to the transport
system could mean anything, but the aim of achieving
reduced fares and freights in order to make the system
“pay by getting more and more satisfied customers,”
and by freeing it from political pressure, sounds more
hopeful than the present practice of pricing people off
the trams. Encouraging, too, is the promise to establish
priorities for public works with the object of rapid
completions of those projects which can pay their way.
To do this more speedily it is proposed, where neces-
sary, “to adopt the principles of private contract which
have proved so overwhelmingly successful in the
Snowy River Scheme.” Decentralisation of industry
and people are of course on the platform of every
political party, but there seems more expectation of
genuine intention when they are put forward by a
party whose main allegiance is not tied to the industrial
electorates of the Sydney-Newcastle-Wollongong area.
If the New South Wales Liberals can really put
behind them the differences which recently rent the
party and leave internal squabbles to their opponents,
who at present have all they can handle, they seem
to have a programme which could enable them to
make a comeback at the next elections. But it will
need all their united effort —and there’s only 18 months
to go.
Churchill's Team-changes
From Westminster: The Prime Minister’s Cabinet
reshuffle seems to dispel the rumor that he was prepar-
ing to make an important personal announcement on
his eightieth birthday. Apart from his studied avoid-
ance of revealing his own future plans, the changes
have done a good deal to assuage his critics and to
augur well for what will probably be this Conservative
Government’s last year in office.
There has long been a need for new minds and new
faces, and it is refreshing that many of the new appoint-
ments are men in their forties. Sir Anthony Eden is
excluded from the shuffle, and that, too, is for the best.
It may be presumed that, when he takes over from
Churchill, he will continue to devote his talents and
experience to foreign affairs. Better for him to keep in
touch than to move into a contrived, and quite
unnecessary, office as titular second-in-command.
Harold Macmillan’s outstanding success at the
Ministry of Housing has earned him promotion to the
Ministry of Defence, and he may well be en route to
the Foreign Office. The transfer of Selwyn Lloyd from
the latter to the Ministry for Supply has occasioned
some surprise, for he is looked upon as an expert in
foreign affairs who could ill be spared.
Mr. Lloyd George has proved a conspicuously able
Minister who has had to preside over a fading, and
always doubtful, asset —the Ministry of Food. He will
be popular and at ease at the Home Office, besides
giving to his secondary duties, Welsh Affairs, a welcome
Gaelic ring.
If Housing has been something for the Government
to shout about, Education has been the reverse. In a
way, the two are mutually exclusive, since there can't
be new homes for the workers and new schools for
their children at the same time. So it is hardly
a shock to learn of Miss Florence Horsbrugh’s depar-
ture from the Ministry of Education. For reasons of
personality, though not of capacity, she has not been
able to break down her department’s unpopularity.
Her successor, Sir David Eccles, who organised the
Coronation, certainly has ambition, drive and urbanity.
His appointment is a testing-ground rather than a
stepping-stone, for he is without experience in
Education.
The Prime Minister will miss Sir David Maxwell
Fyfe (now Lord Chancellor) in the Commons. He has
served as general man-of-all-work, notably in steering
tricky legislative measures through the Chamber. At
one time he was strongly backed for the highest office
in politics, but now appears to be content to accept the
highest in his own profession, the law.
An innovation is the raising to Cabinet rank of
the Minister of Pensions, Mr. Osbert Peake. This
would seem, at first sight, to be a rather ostentatious
focusing of attention on forthcoming legislation.
The most controversial, widely disputed alteration
is the amalgamation of what remains of the Ministry
of Food with the Ministry of Agriculture. The latter
has not a very good record. And it is held to be unwise
for the subjective interests of the farmers and objective
interest of the nation’s mouths to be settled under the
same roof.


LIKE A SHAG ON A ROCK


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cricket and Politics
The inclusion in the itinerary of the
English cricket-team of a picnic-match
at Canberra between the touring side and
an eleven chosen by the Prime Minister
is accepted by most followers of the
game as a pleasant interlude among the
more serious engagements of the season.
The team consists of Canberra cricketers
with a leavening of internationals, and
the only political flavor about the match
is the burst of partisan cheers and jeers
attending the ceremony of the P.M.
trundling down the first ball.
It is to be hoped, however, that the
idea is not copied by State Premiers, or
the game will undoubtedly suffer. An
eleven chosen by Premier Cahill, for
example, would probably consist of men
with exceptionally good credentials —in
the eyes of Mr. Cahill but their
cricketing prowess would be the last
thing to determine their choice. The
most likely composition of the Cahill
eleven would be five trade - union
secretaries, three “Labor” Cabinet
Ministers, two “Labor” M.L.C.s and a
“Labor” alderman. The twelfth-man
would be a former “Labor” M.L.A.; for
umpires there would be no need to look
further than the two N. S. Wales mem-
bers of the Federal A.L.P. executive,
and the official scorer would be an
official of the Sydney Trades Hall.
This is not fantasy; it is merely put
forward as a reasonable deduction from
the composition of the boards of various
trusts for which appointments lie in the
giving of Mr. Cahill. One of these is
the Sydney Cricket Ground Trust, so it
may be assumed that the six “Labor”
politicians who adorn it would be sitters
for the Cahill eleven. If it were desired
to keep the team really exclusive the
remaining vacancies could easily be filled
without going outside trust appointees.
Among the members of the National
Park Trust there are five in addition to
Cahill himself who feel more at home
in the confines of Parliament House than
in the great open spaces, and on the Ku-
ring-gai Park Trust there are six “Labor”
politicians out of a total of ten trustees.
Cricket is a very fine game, and the
most probable reason for this is that
it is played by cricketers and not by
politicians. But Miller, Morris and Co.
had better watch their step or they’ll
find themselves outside the pickets
watching Billy Sheahan, the Evatt brothers
and Gus Kelly arguing with the English
bowlers as representatives of New South
Wales.
Election in Maoriland
From Auckland; In the current election-
campaign in Maoriland, which opened
on October 19 and will cover less
than a month (polling - day is
November 13), three parties are in the
field, and on paper the contest is a
triangular one; but tho Social Credit
crowd won’t have much influence on
the final result, except for close-contested
marginal seats. The odds are that nearly
every candidate carrying the new banner
—about 80 all-told —will lose his
deposit.
The real trial of strength is between
the Nationalists, led by Sid Holland,
with a five-year record in office during
a time of peak prosperity, and the
Labor-Socialists, headed by the chief
architect of their financial and economic
policies, the veteran and former Finance
Minister Walter Nash. Mr. Holland’s
main failing has been his fear of mone-
tary weapons, in consequence of which
he has been dogged by inflation and has
been unable to carry out his original
pledge to strengthen the pound. For
this he has blamed everything but the
real cause—his soft-money policy—an
attitude which hardly encourages confi-
dence that the situation will be taken
firmly in hand when he is returned to
office for a further term, as the majority
of people feel sure he will be.
Mr. Holland has been described as “a
small-town businessman with a stubborn
streak running through a mind of
limited capacity.” This may be true,
but the people trust him. He is also
admired as the man who restored indus-
trial peace. In his outstanding qualities
he has something in common with two
great leaders of the past, Seddon and
Massey, although he has yet to show
real statesmanship.
Planks in the Nationalist platform
that have caught the eye have been;
Home lay-by accounts and home-
ownership endowment policies for newly-
weds and those with young families ; a
land-development programme to bring in
1000 square miles of waste land yearly;
and incentives for local industry. There
is astuteness in appealing to young
voters, who are a numerous and pros-
perous lot in current conditions of full
(or overfull) employment, and in raising
the bid for support from manufacturers
and factory-workers, who are numeri-
cally outstripping the rural population.
Most of the Labor-Socialists’ promises
in a lengthy manifesto that leaves electors
guessing the cost are framed to capture
seats in the Auckland Province, which
holds the balance of power. More than
half the proposals are for public works
in the North, where development has
been lagging behind while population
has been rising at a great rate. As for
the other pledges, they largely revolve
around increased social-security v benefits,
monopoly of credit-issue by the State,
low interest-rates, reimpdsition of con-
trols to combat inflation and a whopping
State housing programme to lift the total
of new houses to 20,000 a year.
Heavily taxed New Zealanders can
hardly be expected to sign a blank
cheque to be filled-in by Walter Nash
and Co. in the light of their performance
during the 14 years they ran the
country.
Two Generals Retire
The retirement of Lieutenant-Generals
Sir Sidney Rowell (from the position
of Chief of the General Staff) and Sir
Horace Robertson (from Southern Com-
mand) marks the end of the first post-
war decade in military history, and
leaves the Commonwealth considerably
indebted to both of them.
Under Rowell, a man whose strong
personality, clashing with that of Sir
Thomas Blarney, deprived him of the
highest commands during the war,
national defence and the Regular Army
have come into existence and developed
in the past few years, and relationships
with the United Kingdom and with the
United States have been smoother and
closely linked in a way not known before
in times of peace.
“Red Robbie” was a more provocative
character, but even his critics did not
question his standing as a soldier or a
commander, and gave him credit for
impressing his personality on the British
Commonwealth Forces in Japan and
for leaving both the Americans and the
Japanese without any doubt about the
fact that Australians are a virile and
self-assertive race, to be reckoned with
despite their small numbers and pacifist
outlook and predilections.
Both officers were essentially native
products—native both to the country
and to its military educational system,
having gone through Duntroon among the
early flights of cadets who worked still
under the shadow of the memory of the
great and dour Bridges.
It is a regular pastime with the daily
press—especially that section of it whose
staffs are studded with young men of
Leftist leanings— to decry the Army and
its outlook, to accuse it of a static,
unprogressive viewpoint and of turning
out minds of a fixed pattern incapable
of imbibing new ideas. The existence
of such divergent and assertive
personalities as those of the two seniors
just retiring, and some others who have
gone before them into civil life within
the past six or seven years, gives the lie
to this slanderous theory and proves
that the Army certainly does not suppress
personality.
The present and immediate past heads
of the Army would be reckoned to have
good minds and strong characters in any
company; and, indeed, it is a mark of
their excellence that when they step down
the community is usually ready to absorb
them into some other occupation at the
highest level, even though they are, by
official standards, at the old-age pension
stage when, if they were not generals,
they would be entitled to £3 10s. or so
a week and free medicine.
The wonder with most of them is that
the Army has been able to keep them
so long, since it is only in the years of
boom that the country has paid its
eminent soldiers much more than a clerk.
At the end of World War II the pay of
a major-general commanding a State
district was still only £l4OO a year, and
to reach that level of opulence men of
the standards of Rowell and Robertson
had stuck to the forces for a quarter of
a century, for most of the time looked
down on by politicians. For part of it
their pay was cut and their future a bad
gamble in the days of the depression,
when the Commonwealth was in the
hands of a “Labor” Government which
seemed to have a sneaking feeling that
it was something of a disgrace to be a
defender of one’s country. %
To both General Rowell and General
Robertson Australians owe a great deal
of thanks for the part they have played
in helping to prevent defence from
sinking back into the mud when the
last shot was fired in 1945
Security Attacked
“In the ACT”: Nothing could have
done more harm to the safety of the
people of Australia than the attacks by,
Dr. Evatt on the Security Service. This
is the summing-up by the Prime Minister.
It will be endorsed by most Australians,
of any political belief, prepared to look
impartially on Evatt’s performances be-
fore the Petrov commission and to con-
sider his subsequent outbursts, which
culminated last Thursday in their heated
but utterly unconvincing repetition in the
House of Representatives.
The commission itself is highly
conscious of the harm which has been
done. It stressed in its interim report
that the charges were calculated not only
to cause disquiet in Australia but also to
shake the confidence of other friendly
nations in the integrity of that service.
The commission said these charges should
not have been lightly made. It added:
“Still less should they be persisted in
when the evidence shows them to be
unfounded.”
This, of course, did not deter Dr.
Evatt. He is in the grip of a destructive
passion which displayed itself to the dis-
cerning once again in his House of Repre-
sentatives speech. He denounced the
commission’s report, he referred to the
“partisan politics” of the Security Ser-
vice. Mr. Menzies’s flaying of him was
merciless, but so completely justified that
only a man so utterly obsessed as Dr.
Evatt could have faced it without collapse.
The Prime Minister said that wild and
hysterical charges had been made utterly
without foundation, “wantonly and reck-
lessly.” He added: “I would not have
believed it possible until the last few
weeks that the leader of a political party
in Australia should have worked so hard
to destroy the confidence of the people
in those men who are the guardians of
- our safety.” He wondered how the great
army of “Labor” supporters who feared
and disliked Communism had enjoyed
the spectacle of their leader, in his dual
role, playing the Communist game on a
platform which the Communists by their
unaided efforts could not have achieved
in a century.
In the few days before the Parlia-
mentary debate a Communist witness,
Rose, made a damaging statement in
evidence before the commission which
must have suggested abroad that security
in the uranium fields was weak. The later
official explanation, showing that Rose
had no access to secret matters relating
to international interests, corrected the
matter somewhat, but could not com-
pletely remove the harm which had been
done.
The one great lesson is that Dr. Evatt
can no longer be trusted in the position
he now occupies.
"On the Verge"
“Mugga Way”: In discussions on Seato
it is to be hoped that Parliament and
the people (not always synonymous)
keep in mind R. G. Casey’s statement
that “instead of living in a tranquil
corner of the globe, we are now on the
verge of the most unsettled region of the
world.” Mr. Casey warned that armed
subversive activities in S.-E. Asia were
aimed not only against the so-called
“colonial Powers” but against the young,
independent countries, and added that
the security of the area would have been
more assured if all the free countries in
it had signed the Manila Treaty.
The statement was a striking warning
that, in spite of all that we will be com-
mitted to under Seato, and in spite of
all the help we will get in time of need
under that treaty, and through the still-
active Anzus Pact, Australia is still a
bit out on a limb geographically and
defensively. We must not forget this,
any more than we can forget the fact
that Sydney’s 2000-mile distance from
Darwin in conditions of modem war-
fare is about equivalent to the distance
between England and Germany during
war-time ten years ago.
It seems a pity that Mr. Casey did
not include in his statement some refer-
ences to the current and significant de-
velopments in South-East Asia on which
Australia is not consulted ; and in which
we are vitally concerned. The “Colombo
Powers” have been having discussions
on which the Australian Government
may or may not be adequately informed,
but on which the Australian people have
been told nothing whatever in either
press or Parliament. These are expected
to result in an important conference in
Djakarta either late in December or
early next year, to be followed by the
“Afro-Asian conference” which has been
talked about for a long time but is now
in process of formation.
These discussions, and any decisions
which may come out of them either
immediately or at some future date, are
vital to us. Yet there had been no
reference in Parliament in Canberra, up
to and including the time of Mr. Casey’s
speech, to the Afro-Asian talks. Those
talks, it is being said in Asia, will be
on the basis of “consultation without
commitment,” and they will probably be
attended by observers, if not delegates,
from Red China and the native peoples
of Africa. One recent published state-
ment in Asia said that no country in
the “indicated region” would be omitted
from the invitation by the sponsoring
Colombo Powers, “but only those coun-
tries subscribing to the general approach
to peace of the Colombo Powers are
expected to attend the conference.”
It is time we were told something in
Canberra about what is happening so
close to us. Recent events suggest that
there is no inclination on the part of
Australia to seek a share in these dis-
cussions, and it may be that any approach
from Canberra would be rebuffed —
although there is no public proof of this.
At least Australians should be told what
is going on, and whether we will be
allowed to have observers at the scene
when these conferences are held.
Where Is Comrade Clayton?
The chief evidence before the Royal
Commission on Espionage last week was
concerned with the hunt for Walter
Seddon Clayton, a Comrade whom
everybody with any knowledge .of Com-
munist personalities used to believe to
be the head of the Communist intelli-
gence and information-collecting system.
He was one of the best-known Com-
munists in the country.
Security is exceedingly anxious to question
him in the interests of Australia, and Mr.
Clayton must be somewhere about. But there
appear to be a lot of people in the Common-
wealth who are not prepared to tell. The
complex of the scandalised professor at
Sydney University—supported hotly by Dr.
Evatt preaching the “police-State” line —who
went shouting to the newspapers the other day
because he discovered that somebody connected
with Security had asked somebody to report
anything he might observe round Camperdown
which had a bearing on the safety of the country
seems to be a common one in Australia.
Nobody likes the spy, but that any thinking
man should deprecate a discreet watch being
kept on certain people in an institution in
which important defence and nuclear research
is being done is unbelievable. But the two-up-
school complex seems to be all too common.
It is certainly common among those who
know where Mr. Clayton is, if anybody does
know, and it is believable that quite a number
of people must.
One, of course, is Comrade Clayton him-
self. The only activities in which the commis-
sion and Security are interested are his Com-
munist activities, which every Communist
alleges are loyal and patriotic to the last degree.
But Mr. Clayton appears unwilling to exhibit
his patriotism to the commission. And his
good friends of the Communist party obviously
do not either.
Mr. Clayton’s bank-manager said that he had
received a deposit posted to the bank on July
14 this year—three months after Petrov’s
defection from the Embassy. Clayton’s last
cheque drawn on his bank was on April 22,
1953. The bank had had his address as 14a
Awaba-street, Mosman. Then it was changed
to Vaucluse. On May 3 last the bank was
notified that he was living at 112 St. George-
road, Bexley. And then an estate-agent'
telephoned to say that his forwarding-address
was 1148 Rocky Point Road, Ramsgate.
An estate-agent swore that Clayton four or
five months ago had given him power-of-
attorney to manage his property, a cottage he
was selling—its value was about £2OOO.
Clayton had not instructed him to sell the
cottage, but he was selling it “because collecting
the rent was too much trouble, and he got
little commission out of it.” Clayton had told
him that he- was just wandering around collect-
ing material to write a history of Australia,
and that he did not know where he would
be going, but expected to visit England, the
Continent and New Zealand, and could not
give him a forwarding-address. The agent
admitted that he had been a Communist-party
member' about ten years ago.
Then Richard Dixon, national president of
the Communist party, said that he did not
know Clayton’s whereabouts. It seemed that
he disappeared off the face of the earth m
1951. He solemnly appealed to Clayton to
come forward and answer the lies and slanders
against him and clear the party. He admitted
that Clayton had been a member of the Central
Control Commission, which is the Supreme
Court and “intelligence” centre of the party -
Mr. Windeyer produced a document which
contained a statement to the party congress
about tiie absence from the ballot of Clayton.
Dixon said he last saw Clayton in October,
1953, when the latter called at hjs home. And
he declared that he thought Miss Berme, the
young lady secretary of the Eureka Youth
League, whom Mr. Dalziel had selected for
Dr. Evatt’s staff, was “lying” when she said
she had brought copies of documents,, from Di.
(Continued on next page)


Evatt’s office to Clayton. He said that the’
Communist party would have nothing to do
with espionage or anything of that character.
And he thought the charge that Clayton had
approached one George Williamson Legge, an
employee of the External Affairs Department
and asked him if he would be prepared to
assist the party on foreign-affairs matters was
untrue.
Next, two young ladies, whose names were
not mentioned, gave evidence. One said she
had lived at Clayton’s Awaba-street address
from 1949 until ten weeks ago. The flat was
in Clayton’s name and he had lived there
before she took it over. She said, in reply to
her counsel, the well-known Communist bar-
rister, Max Julius, that she was a close friend
of Clayton and had continued to pay the rent
and other charges of the flat since he left.
Another woman, who said she was a member
of the Communist party, admitted that she
had allowed Clayton to use her address at
Vaucluse as a forwarding-address.
Apart from this, George Williamson Legge,
formerly Second Secretary of the South Pacific
Division of the External Affairs Department—
he joined the department in 1945 —admitted
that he had introduced Miss Barnett, an official
of the department, to Rose, a Communist
formerly in Commonwealth Government
employ. Miss Barnett alleged that Rose had
put her into contact with a Communist who
tried to suborn her to give confidential infor-
mation to the Communist party. Legge said
that he had not known that Rose was a Com-
munist. He admitted having met Clayton him-
self in company with his own cousin, Jack
Legge, a well-known Communist. He said that
his cousin suggested that he might be able to
help the Communist party on foreign-affairs
matters, and informed him that Clayton was a
Communist-party official who was in charge of
foreign-policy affairs in the Communist party.
He said that he himself was not a Communist,
and had seen Petrov 14 or 15 times but purely
lon a social basis.
On Friday another witness was called who
asked that his name be not mentioned. He
was represented by another well-known Com-
munist counsel, F. W. Paterson. He was a
carpenter who had been employed in the public
service. He said he was astonished to find that
his name was mentioned in a document in the
handwriting of Sadovnikov, secretary of the
Soviet Embassy by the code-name of “Artist.”
He admitted that he had been chairman of
the Mosman branch of the Communist party
before 1940. He had not been active since
the war, but had attended a number of party
meetings.
Finally, John Williamson Legge, Senior
Lecturer in Biochemistry at the Melbourne
University, said he had been a member of the
Communist party since 1935, and admitted that
Clayton had driven him to Canberra, and that
they had met his cousin who had earlier given
evidence, and had had an argument, but he
denied that they had asked his cousin to help
the Communist party with information. He
had been a branch-officer of the Communist
party in N. S. Wales and Victoria, and had
done post-graduate studies at Cambridge for
nearly two years and had visited Denmark,
Sweden, France, Ceylon, India and America,
but he had never given any of the confidential
information of which he had been in possession
as an official of the Munitions Department
during the war to the Communist party. It
was a great surprise to him to know that there
was an entry in a Soviet Embassy document
which attributed to him a substantial programme
of work at home and abroad in the interest of
the Communists and the Soviet Union.
At the end of the week Comrade Clayton
was still missing. Even the pathetic appeal of
the head of the Communist party had not
induced him to come forward, though the
world’s press has carried an appeal asking him
to reveal himself.
POLITICAL POINTS
A traffic expert from Washington,
D.C., has commented that in Sydney and
Melbourne “not enough information is
given to the motorist regarding what he
can do.” This is probably because so
much time and so many words are used
up in telling him what he can’t do.
• •
Some Federal members will regret the
daily issue of “Hansard” —if it ever
comes. It will probably be a techni-
cal impossibility to permit the customary
revision of speeches and statements.
Speeches will appear in all their imper-
fection and inaccuracy, a permanent
record subject only to the “Hansard”
chief’s corrections of grammatical slips
and alterations of style to conform to
current restrictions. The members’ best
friends are usually the reporters who weld
diffuse and unending sentences into a
more-or-less intelligible story, but the
opportunity for revision, in the interests
of accuracy, is perhaps at least as
important. With a daily “Hansard” that
revision would be impossible, giving poli-
tical opponents weapons that will doubt-
less be used to the limit.
• •
“Labor’s” internal squabble, the storm-
centre of which was shifted last week
from Canberra to Melbourne, received an
additional stir at the weekend with the
publication of a letter sent by former
Vic. Lands Minister Holt to the Federal
Executive. This alleged that last year
Catholic Actionist Santamaria, on Holt’s
refusing to agree to an amendment to the
Victorian Lands Act which would have
had the effect of enabling Italian settlers
to take up Crown lands, said to the
Minister that he “might not be in the
next Parliament.” Holt further alleged
that the Hon. F, R. Scully “endorsed the
remark.”
Holt’s allegation will presumably be
fully “probed” by the A.L.P. Executive,
and Santamaria, who denies the allega-
tion, is taking counsel’s opinion on it.
Two facts regarding Holt are undeniable.
Last December while presenting to the
Assembly amendments which would have
had the effect mentioned he broke off his
speech, saying “I can’t go on.” He then
tore up the amendment and left the
House. His resignation as Minister fol-
lowed, and he has not been endorsed as
“Labor” candidate for Portland at the
next election.
• •
An Egyptian who fired five shots at
Prime Minister Nasser, wounding him
and two other members of his party, is
reported ho have said, “I was shooting
overhead to express my joy.” It wouldn’t
be too safe to be around when he felt
like expressing anger or sorrow.
• 9
Victoria’s famous two-for-one redis-
tribution of electorates for the House
of Assembly may never be used; Chief
Secretary Galvin announced last week
that a further redrawing of boundaries
will probably be necessary after the post-
census adjustments in Victorian Federal
seats. It’s all a question of time. No
start can be made on the Victorian
split-up until the Federal redistribution
is completed, and there’s no sign of that
even being started yet. The Vic. election
is due towards the end of next year.
9 9
In last week’s issue The Bulletin
shared the confusion of others in decid-
ing which Burke or Bourke did which
in the caucus Donnybrook. To keep the
record straight it was T. P. Burke, of
Perth, who said he was done with Dr.
Evatt —finished with him for ever —and
W. Bourke, of Victoria, who charged
Evatt with collaboration with the Com-
munists.
9 9
The R.S.L. storm in a teacup over the
Jap base ball-tour seems rather unrealis-
tic. The war has been over for nine
years. There is a Japanese embassy in
Australia; Japanese woolbuyers and
other businessmen are accepted here;
Japan competes in Davis Cup tennis and
will be sending a team to the Olympic
Games in Melbourne. Why make an
exception of baseballers?
• •
Administrator Wise and Darwin’s
Harbormaster, Captain Wells, are inves-
tigating the possibility of using L.S.T.s
to pick up cattle at landing-stages along
the Victoria River, Roper River and
Adelaide River. Wise says export to the
Philippines will begin next year if it is
found that the rivers are navigable by
L.S.T. There shouldn’t be much doubt
about it. Half a century ago vessels be-
longing to the South Australian Govern-
ment steamed up all these rivers, and also
the Daly, in the case of the Roper for
more than 100 miles.
• •
Jack Lang’s very much
on-side with the Doc. nowadays:
One estimate is that for every vote Evatt
has lost inside the Labor party, he has
picked up four from the Liberal party.
Three guesses whose estimate that is.
• •
Few people will quarrel with R. G.
Casey’s refusal to arrange the establish-
ment of an Australian Embassy in
NO ABOLISHING THAT!
Madrid. Although there is a stronger
case for diplomatic representation in
Spain than there is in some of the coun-
tries where Australia is already repre-
sented, that is a past error which cannot
easily be corrected now. It is far easier
to start an embassy than to close one, and
some of the entourages we maintain
abroad are expensive frills and no more.
• •
Jane’s Fighting Ships observes that
the U.S. Navy is now equal to all the
“major navies of the world put together.”
What is a major navy nowadays?
• •
Pollard, attacking a bill for suspending
hide- and leather-controls, declared that
removal of control would up the price
of boots and shoes by £1 a pair ; after a
“rowdy scene,” in which he called
Chairman of Committees Adermann “an
absolute crook,” he was suspended from
the House. Pollard’s real concern was
that another control was being lifted
from Australian industry and commerce,
and that, to a confirmed Socialist, is
about the most dreadful of all political
crimes.
• •
To overcome the difficulties of attract-
ing sufficient migrant-labor to North
Queensland for the cane-cutting season,
the Cairns migrant-hostel is to be re-
opened to provide accommodation for
workers’ families, talent-scouts will be
sent to Europe to select migrants for the
sugar industry and a migrant-ship will
bring passengers direct to Cairns to save
“wastage” at southern ports.
These measures are most important;
Queensland has benefited less from
immigration than most of the States, yet
from a national viewpoint one migrant
in North Queensland is probably worth
two or three down south,
• •
“Mugga Way”; Discussion of the
possibility of Senator McKenna being
offered the “Labor” leadership and his
reported reluctance to exchange his
present Opposition-leadership in the
Senate for the trials and tribulations of
a similar post in the Reps raises the
query as to whether it is impossible for
a party to be led from the Senate. There
is no constitutional bar to the Prime
Ministership or the leadership of the
Opposition being held in the “Upper
House,” and there have been precedents
in the British Parliament, though not
for many years.
• •
An American guided-missile expert
told a press conference that the U.S.
could have a fully manned space-ship
circling the earth within 10 to 15 years
if it were willing to go all-out on the
project. “It’s all a matter of how hard
we push it.” Push it? Surely science
can do a little better than that?
• •
None of the “Labor” politicians who
have been squealing about the “defence-
less north” has remarked on the new
step to be taken in the chain of major
aerodromes ringing the Australian coast
at Williamtown, Amberley, Townsville
and Darwin, linked with Port Moresby
and Manus Island. The latest develop-
ment is the decision to spend £1,250,000
on a new runway at Darwin, with local
stone to be quarried by the R.A.A.F.
construction-unit. This runway will
make the airport suitable for the opera-
tion of the heaviest types of aircraft, and
work will begin when the “wet” ends in
May or June. Civil Aviation is to give
Darwin airport a needed face-lift with a
new overseas terminal to cost £500,000,
• •
London “Times” and the Communist
“Daily Worker” don’t have much in
common, but they have just been
bracketed in a partnership neither is likely
to try to wriggle out of. The “Printing
World” has instituted an annual prize for
the best-designed newspaper, and the two
opposites have tied for the first award.
• ’ •
Morton, M.L.A. for Mosman in the
Sydney Parliament, who has been sound-
ing off about the excessive number of
“Labor” politicians appointed to public
trusts in N. S. Wales, intends to urge the
Libs to pledge themselves to correct this
state of affairs if returned at the next
election. His suggestion is legislation
limiting the politician members of such
trusts to two.
/
• •
Women in Peru have at last been
granted the vote. Now they’ll be able to
give the men of Lima beans!
• •
Death stalked the monthly demographic
review issued in Canberra by the Statis-
tician on the day the A.L.P. Executive
began its meeting in the hotel which had
been the rendezvous of Lockwood, Fergan
O’Sullivan and Evatt’s “assistant-
secretary” Grundeman. It was, of course,
sheer coincidence that the statistics should
appear on that day, and the grim tables
showing “crude death-rates,” the “50
causes of death” and similar jolly tabula-
tions mentioned nothing about conspiracy
or “bombshells.” Heart-disease took the
lead in the list of causes, offering a warn-
ing to overexcited politicians and union
officials.
• •
Ceylon’s spicy breezes are apparently
not so sweet as they used to be. Dr,
Burton quitted his official post in
Colombo without notice a couple of
years ago to contest, unsuccessfully, the
Federal seat Lowe. Now Professor E. C.
Spooner, sent there by the External
Affairs Department under the Colombo
Plan, has come back to as-yet-undis-
closed reasons.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
'T'RULY, we can learn from the New
Australian—a fact brought home to
me forcibly when I came across Peter
packing three pairs of nylons for dispatch
to his sister in some remote and unpro-
nounceable area behind the Iron Curtain.
The result of his labors was six neat
packets, each containing one stocking
only and therefore of no use at all to any
light-fingered Continental Customs-man.
To make doubly sure, Pete’s three pairs
were in three different shades, one of
each being posted forthwith and the rest
by next month’s mail. That leaves only
“ Bye-bye , dear, I can see your hubby is DYING to get away.”
one hazard—the Customs-man’s sister or
something might have only one leg, but
I hadn’t the heart to upset Pete by
mentioning the possibility.—“ Lemuel G.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bo”; Not only the radio-announcer
has to be so very careful what he says
immediately his session ends, just in case
he is still on the air. A Sydney suburban
store at which a lady-demonstrator was
operating an electrical home-appliance
rigged-up for her a public-address system,
the better to help entice into the store
passing housewives. But business was
deadly dull. For the umpteenth time she
said, in a voice most refined: “Ladies, I
am about to give a demonstration of the
Wacko Deep-boil Agitator. Now come
in and see this wonderful addition to the
kitchen in action.” Nary a bite. Then
she stepped back to a distance which
shouldn’t have allowed her voice to carry
to the mike and said: “Wouldn’t it?
There isn’t a b in sight!” It could
only be heard 300yds. up the main-street.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Retrac”: My memory of Lord
Halifax (from news-photographs) is of
a somewhat austere and forbidding coun-
tenance and a lean, lengthy form. Gratify-
ing to read, therefore, that he was the
perpetrator of a practical joke worthy
of record in H. Allen Smith’s new book
The Compleat Practical Joker. Lord H.
found himself with two prim
middle-aged ladies in a railway-
compartment. The carriage,
unlighted, entered a tunnel and
Halifax noisily kissed the back of
his hand several times. When the
train reached his station, his lord-
ship gallantly raised his hat and
inquired: “To which of you
charming ladies am I indebted for
the delightful incident in the
tunnel?” And departed, leaving
the two ladies glaring at each other.
“Viper”: When giving weather-fore-
casts why does the A.B.C. so dread
mentioning the word “weather”? Why
must it always be referred to as a
condition? Cool conditions, summer
conditions; never just plain hot or cold
weather. This genteel harping on certain
“conditions” is reminiscent of a Victorian
mother-to-be.
■ij*
“Kash”: Chivalry is dead, but the
agile age is on us. One of the wicket-
dragonesses at Sydney’s Wynyard paused
long enough in her conversation to
really scrutinise the young, bloke’s
ticket. He shot through the gate and
was caught at the bottom of the “up”
escalator. After a few seconds’ animated
discussion he staggered her with a push
in the most prominent forepart, then
went up the down-moving stairway, two
at a time. We cannot applaud the law-
breaker or the ungallant, but the turn
of speed shown must surely put him in
Olympic class.
“Ceg”: Banks are not always serious
and gloomy places. Saturday morning,
large suburban branch, crowded. Enter
a somewhat pompous-looking bloke
who, at the ledgers partition, asked for
the balance of his account. The youth
who attended to him disappeared for a
moment, and then, cocking his head over
the partition, announced in a voice heard
by all: “ Debtor twelve hundred pounds
six and four pence! ” The pompous one
looked as though he would have a stroke,
but rallied and shot into the manager’s
room. Everybody chuckled—especially
debtor’s opposition, who happened to be
in the bank at the time. Next time I
went into that bank, for the same purpose,
the youth asked me, “Do you want it
verbally—or on a slip?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bret Lawson”: A spell in the brig
or stoppage of leave are the usual punish-
ments for erring sailors. But at the R.N.
Fleet Air Arm base in Mombasa during
the war, they had a different method.
Once a week a train came to Mombasa
and all hands would make their way to
the railway-line to watch it pass through.
It was just about the only recreation in
that forsaken hole. So the Navy devised
a sadistic form of punishment. Wrong-
doers were not allowed to watch the
train!
*!♦ ❖
“Hist”: So we’re to have a “com-
memorative” 2s. stamp as advance
publicity for the 1956 Olympic Games,
two-bob being the overseas airmail letter-
rate, so ensuring world-wide distribution.
Why not also an aerogram on the
same lines? The U.K. issued one at
Coronation-time. The aerogram at ten-
pence is surely as popular for foreign air-
mail correspondence as the two-bob letter.
At the same time we might pep up the
appearance of our ordinary aerograms.
Our postage-stamps are in the main a
credit to us, but the impressed stamp on
the aerogram, supposed to depict an air-
craft superimposed on a globe, is as often
as not a mere smear.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“W.P.T.”: Why so many misleading
terms in reference to everyday services?
We speak of having clothes dry-
cleaned —they’re saturated with dry-
cleaning spirits. A woman gets her hair
permanently waved —lasts a couple of
months. She buys ladder - proof
stockings—ladder the first time something
catches in them. Have yet to find a noise-
less typewriter that is noiseless; or any-
thing that is bought on “easy terms.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“St. G.”; The law making the next-of-
kin owner of a body after death (B.
6/10/’54) did not deter a South Aus-
tralian doctor who was anxious to get
samples of a rare skeletal disease.
Unscrupulous—when in the cause of
medical research —the doc. raided the
morgue in secret, and removed several
bones. So that their absence would not
be detected, he replaced them with con-
venient material at hand, and withdrew,
leaving, he thought, no sign of his visit.
He did not foresee that the body was to
be cremated. Lucky for him the exclama-
tions of the undertaker’s assistant did not
reach official ears —when he found among
the ashes several long, charred, metallic
umbrella-rods.
♦♦♦ *** *X*
“Mullum”: From the A.B.C. descrip-
tion of the match M.C.C. v. W.A.:
“Cowdrey turned that ball to square-leg,
straight down Gorringe’s throat, and
Gorringe gobbled it up.” Does the
changed new-ball rule make any provision
for a happening like this?
*X* *X* *X*
“An Chuidh”: As “Baksac” suggests,
tracing words through different
languages is a fascinating study (B.
13/10/’54). Pantaloonia is intelligible in
English because we took the word from
Italian fairly recently—as pantaloon,
now shortened to pants. The Germans
took the word, too. The word
“trousers” comes from the Celtic
dradhais (drousers). Coat is cota in
Gaelic, hat at, hose osain, while glove
comes from glave, the hand. Words such
as mother and father are derived from
the common language of the Aryans,
and are common in one form or other to
most European languages. The study of
the various forms of “father” is a good
illustration of Grimm’s law of the shift of
consonants. Different languages are
really a small barrier between two edu-
cated people. Use the largest words—
they’re from the Latin and common to
most European lingos.
♦> <♦ ❖
“Metralia”: A “Flying Chamber-pot”
is reported in France: a refreshing
variant on the saucer theme. But, not to
be outdone, the British have built their
“Flying Bedstead”: a jet-plane that
takes off vertically, like a skylark. French
politicians are still dithering over joining
European defence-plans. Is it from fear
their new vehicle may be relegated to an
inferior role?
“8.N.F.” (California): Mention of
Tommy Walker, one of J. E. Webb’s
editors in his “Office Boy’s Odyssey” (B.
15/9/’54), rang a bell. I met Tommy
several times; he was, to the best of my
recollection, brought from Sydney to
Melbourne to ease the work of lecturing
devolving upon Joe Symes. Tommy’s
versatility and brilliance covered a wide
range. He once debated with a clergy-
man in the Hall of Science for nine
consecutive nights, without notes ; he also
wrote the play “Marvellous Melbourne,”
put on in the old Alexandra in
Exhibition-street.
+♦♦ *** ❖
“Tuggle”: Australian Literature has
been approved as a full examination sub-
ject at the Canberra University College.
This follows a successful trial run as a
non-exam, course under the competent
baton of T. Inglis Moore.
❖ * ❖
“Brick E.”: An old carpenter I knew
had a home-made axiom: “If the job
looks so simple you think you could do it
yourself, you’re looking at a good trades-
man.” Wasn’t till a new man bought
out our newsagent that I realised what a
smooth operator we used to have. To
make matters worse for both of us the
new bloke comes along our street just as
I’m going to work. Whether I make him
nervous, or I’m merely witnessing his
usual form, I dunno; but it is most
embarrassing to see a “Herald” come
flying out of the car —only to plop against
the front fence and fall lifeless; or watch
a “Telegraph” go soaring over a pencil-
pine to make a forced landing on a
veranda roof. Although I pretend to be
looking interestedly at something else
when the thrower stops the car, backs,
retrieves the misguided missile, places it
where it should have deposited itself, then
drives on again—and has the same thing
happen at the next house —I know that he
knows I’ve seen all. Embarrassing, that’s
what it is—like seeing a bloke walk down
the street blissfully unaware that the tail
of his shirt is hanging out.
EYE-POLITICS
“N. S. Wales Cabinet approved legislation
to license private-inquiry agents, who must
produce ‘satisfactory evidence of good
character. 5 ”
Now that the Sydney private-eye
Is being licensed to be good.
Only good-lookers need apply ;
No one common; no one crude.
The vulgar word, the monkey-trick,
He must in future shudder from ;
We cannot have a private-Dick
Mistaken for a peeping-Tom!
At keyhole or at curtain-chink
He still may earn his bread-and-butter,
But in such style that men may think :
“Thus would a guardian-angel flutter!”
Nor must his countenance be dull,
Nor yet his attitude suspicious.
But rather: “Heavens, how beautiful I
Such charm! Such elegance!
Delicious. 1 ’’
And when the awful minute strikes
Of breaking window, crashing door.
Let no disdains or weak dislikes
Degrade our hero to a boor;
But: “Ah, good evening, sir and
madam !
Don’t stir; don’t worry—l believe
I’d hardly know you, sir, from Adam,
Or differentiate you, miss, from Eve !”
As Walter Pater somewhere comments,
The Eye, like Art, should seek to give
The highest value to their moments
Who live to love and love to live:
So act, O newly-licensed sentry
Upon the town’s illicit kiss.
That those who used to fear your entry
May say, “It needed only this I”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


■jV/fAGNETIC false-teeth are the latest.
They’ve got magnets with like
magnetic-poles in upper and lower
plates, the idea, of course, being that
like poles repel, and the electrolised
dentures are thus always kept in position.
A Harley-street fang-snatcher claims
that two of his most satisfied customers
with these polarised grinders are an
opera-singer and a politician. The M.P.
isn’t named, but Well, a pair
would be a great help to Doc. Evatt;
whenever he thinks of his future these
days his t-tats must ch-ch-chatter away
aplenty.—“K.R.”
♦> ❖ *
“P.0.M.C.”: When a 50-odd-year-old
bottle of beer was found recently at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) surprise was
expressed at the bottle’s indented or
concave bottom. In my boyhood
“He just sits here all night long gazing at the stars."
(contemporaneous to the brewing of the
Newcastle find) the bottoms of all beer-
bottles were indented ; they were blown,
not moulded. In fact, these bottles were
toys in my urchin days. Making shallow
tracks in the loose sand in divers
directions in our backyard, we played
trains with them; coupling eight or 10
bottles, neck to concavity, and directing
them along the desired “line” from the
rear bottle on hardy hands and knees.
“Sig”: Artist Lusby’s not so far out
in his joke-block of a radio script-writer
“living his lines” (B. 27/10/’54). You
should see two writers collaborating.
Thumps on table; mouthing; dulcet
tones; imitations of heavy music-chords
at appropriate “cliff-hanging” places; in
between, grins at one another at a par-
ticularly good line. And it’s not affecta-
tion. No good using the sense of the
written line in radio —every word must
be spoken by the scripter before it goes
on to paper. I know —once, early in the
piece, wrote “The guns opened in a
staccato cacophony of sound.” The look
that stammering actor gave me burned
clear through the control-panel glass.
* ♦> *>
“Findy”: What’s this complaint about
Australian brewers not putting-up beer
in half-bottles? Go round Australia by
air and the hostesses will bring it to you
as bottled by at least four breweries,
located in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Perth. Haven’t struck it on the
ground. Perhaps the half-bots. are only
meant for serving in the clouds.
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: There are occasions when even
the most tolerant husband is stung to
mild rebuke at what at other times he
would regard as a minor shortcoming in
his spouse’s housekeeping. One such is
the simultaneousness of two events: the
public announcement of the imminence
of a steep rise in the price of a vital food
item and her discovery that she had for-
gotten to put it on the weekly order.
Thus did I get the telephonic s.o.s. on
the day some idiot let everyone know
the price of tea was going to be jacked-
up drastically. What happens? You
shoot round to the nearest store and get
caught up in a long queue of hoarders
trying to beat the price-rise. There is
usually a matey air among the queuers,
and it is not at all surprising if the bloke
next to you asks how many pounds
you’ve been able to get hold of. So the
spirit of levity temporarily rises, and you
rock him with the lying boast that you’ve
landed enough to last you six months.
But the worst feature is the supercilious
air of the counter-hand; he knows
you’re hoarding and is equally certain
you’ll immediately be bolting around to
some other store. Now I know exactly
how the burglar must feel who has been
unjustly accused of doing some place
over.
{4 ♦> >l4
“Auburn”: In building London’s tube-
stations on slopes to facilitate stopping
and starting, “Perseverando” (B.
13/10/’54) understates an ingenious piece
of engineering. While the idea looked
perfect on paper, experience showed that
a train assisted in stopping by the upgrade
was resisted in starting to the same
degree, while the energy saved taking-off
on a down-grade was equal to that
expended on additional braking. Much
of the heat stored in the underground
came from the red faces of the engineers
when this was discovered, but other
factors assist. Absorption and radiation
of solar heating are confined to a few
surface-feet, but, apart from additions by
mechanical action (of which the driving
motors, air-friction and rail-friction are
the greatest), the millions of tube-travel-
lers all contribute something in heat-
transference, which in the restricted
ventilation must be absorbed somewhere,
If the walls remained cold the deposition
ẁ
“ There's nothing I really need, but come in—l may think of something. ”
has now been overcome, and applicants
in future will have only a brief wait,
but thousands have never applied.
Recently about 5000 applied in three
days, but many more have never troubled.
Medals and decorations are by right of
service the property of the 700,000 per-
sonnel to whom they had been awarded.
The Army is holding them in trust until
they’re claimed from Central Army
Records in Melbourne. Come on, boys—
in for your cut.
*** *X* *>
“Choleric”: A telephone-bell rings for
0.4 seconds, is silent for 0.2 seconds,
rings for 0.4 seconds and is then silent for
two seconds, the cycle being repeated 20
times a minute. The bell is struck 6|
times in 0.4 seconds, 50 times faster. I
now quote from a textbook published by
the P.M.G.: “Interrupted ringing of sub-
scribers’ bells is found to be more effec-
tive than continuous ringing, and repre-
sents an economical source of supply.”
How many people would pay for the
alteration of the word ‘ effective to
“attractive”? I, for one.
*l* * *
“Narumee”: Sidelight on the British
dock-strike. “Terrible, isn’t it, dear?
the plump, perfumed, pearl-hung matron
was saying to her chair-neighbor in the
expensive hairdressing-salon. “I don’t
know why they have to go and strike at
this time of year —all the Christmas
mails will be late! And there’s nothing
more annoying than getting shoals of
Christmas-cards round about the end of
January. I mean you can’t display them
then, so no one else ever sees them!”
*** *> *>
“Muskeen”: Some of the War II
A.I.F. canteens in Palestine decorated
their walls with labels of the different
varieties of beer that passed through
their hands (B. 20/10'/’54). They
had quite a scope, too.
tically every brand of Australian
and at least one of New Zealand
beer were on issue in rotation.
Canadian beer appeared in 1942,
and their labels were pictorially
attractive. Then, of course, there
was Stella from Gyppo-land, and
the local varieties—Gold Star and
Eagle. Palestinian beer was
really quite good—after the third
bottle, it could not be distinguished from
Melbourne brew.
* ❖ ❖
“Bill”: A wonder of the technological
age came to the aid of the church
recently in the Tasmanian town of
Wynyard, where the Church of England
was celebrating its centenary. The
Dean of Hobart, the Very Rev.
H. P. Fewtrell, went north to
preach a special centenary sermon.
but on the morning concerned was
stricken with sciatica. But in St.
Stephen’s Church that night worshippers
heard the dean’s sermon —although he
was in bed in the near-by rectory. A
recording, made at the dean’s bedside,
was played back in the church.
❖ ❖ ❖
“5 G.R.”: There has been fierce
competition in Victorian cities and towns
for a Tatt’s agency. Most shopkeepers
reckoned on bringing more business into
their shops. It’s had the opposite effect.
They now have the chagrin of witnessing
their debtors “investing” a cool quid or so
a week in the blottery. Cash takings are
down and debts are rising.
“Ariadne”: Another sidelight on the
Melbourne Tatt.’s craze. Our suburban
grocer has a sign on his counter reading
“We deal with Tatt.’s.” On the bottom
of their bills many of his customers are
now finding another item: Extras,
ss. 6d.”
♦♦♦ ❖
“KA”: When a black spot appeared
in a double-tooth of our four-year-old
the dentist was consulted. “This,” quoth
he, “is an amalgam filling.” Assured
that never previously had the nipper
been near a fang-puller he investigated
further. We do know the young shaver
never loses an opportunity to snitch a
piece of cheese—with or without silver-
paper. Apparently mastication had
ground the metal below the enamel
surface.
* ❖
“Skinny”: Those fantastic amateur
laws. Just discovered that if an amateur
runner competes in a race against pros,
regardless of whether the prize is cash,
open-order or a box of jelly-beans, he
automatically becomes a pro. himself.
If he wants to be a lilywhite once more,
it’ll cost him a quid and a wait of several
months. Watch yourself at the next
Sunday-school picnic.
YO-HO!
•Sergeant: ‘Under what circumstances did your
wife leave after she assaulted you?^
Witness: ‘She just gave me a sailors fare-
well.’ ”
His missus to anger had yielded,
And then a blunt instrument wielded;
Right busy he was as he shielded
Himself from the conjugal blitz.
Determinedly she had socked him
With blows in succession that rocked
him;
And then —heartless jade!—she had
mocked him.
Adding venom and barb to the hits,
By pausing to yell
At her lord in distress
Gently feeling his bruises.
The kind of farewell
(And quite salty, you’d guess)
That the mariner uses.
Some wives, after fights, get remorseful
And some may get even more forceful.
Yet another one, rather resourceful,
Reflecting that, after all, he
Is the source of her lifetime meal-ticket,
And that being on a good wicket
She’ll be stumped if she doesn’t play
cricket,
Will square off as fast as may he.
Some don’t utter a word
But just beat it pell-mell;
Others cry their “Peccavi!”
But she gave him the bird
In the candid farewell
That they use in the Navy.
Having rated him quite a curmudgeon
And pasted him some with her bludgeon,
It’s natural that, in high dudgeon,
She’d part from his roof-tree, red-hot.
The dignified phrase she found juiceless,
Theatrical thunderings useless.
So, scorning a parting abuseless,
The farewell she finally shot
Had the tang of the sea;
One that’s never expressed
By a cop or a tailor.
It’s the frank-as-can-be
And delivered-with-zest
Good-bye of the sailor.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
UNCLE MAT
“It’s time you started work, my son,
You dreamy, idle boy :
Seventeen years and no work done :
Just look at Uncle Mat!” '
(Auntie Flo is smooth and pink —
I like to kiss Aunt Flo.
She says “You’re no child now I” I think
I envy Uncle Mat.)
“It’s time we had a car, you know :
A wife has got some rights.
Your Auntie Flo puts on a show —
Thanks to Uncle Mat.”
(Uncle Mat has made his pile —
Blackmarkets and his brewery;
That’s how his wife’s got so much style
I envy Uncle Mat.)
“When you retire I’ve got a plan
To eke our savings out:
The brewery needs another man —
Just thank your Uncle Mat.”
(Uncle Mat’s retired. He said
He’s drinking half the profits.
It won’t be long before he’s dead —
/ envy Uncle Mat.)
QUEENSLAND.
K. G. L.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Two presidencies have landed on John
Thurgate Taylor within the past few
months—firstly, that of the Imperial
Service Club in Sydney ; secondly, of the
Federation of Commercial Broadcasting
Stations. The aerial post results from
wide radio experience, taking in mana-
ger 3AW in Melbourne, 2CH in Sydney
and, since 1946, boss of 2UW. About
6ft. and 14st., definitely immaculate,
Taylor not long ago answered to
lieutenant-colonel, serving first with the
Armored Division, then in command of
the 2/sth Commando Squadron, which
carried out its special, sudden and savage
duties mainly in New Guinea.
• •
Ewen Waterman (hereunder) has six
brothers. Between them they have
interests in a hefty slice of South Aus-
tralian business, covering film-houses,
real-estate, insurance, electrical goods,
even olive-oil. But Ewen, eldest, has
wool nearest his skin. Formerly with
Goldsbrough Mort, as head-classer on
many large S.A. and N.S.W. stations, he
classed some of the States’ heaviest clips.
In 1949 he went off to London, suitably
appointed as Australian Wool Board rep.
on the International Wool Secretariat.
His concern’s main job is promoting the
sale of the greasy gold, to which end
there are numerous research-projects
operating throughout Europe and the
U.S. Travelling most of the time,
currently in Sydney to consult with the
PROMOTER
A.W.8., and with visiting American wool-
growers, he’ll also meet Japanese wool-
men, most of whom he’s met in Paris,
or London, or Tokyo, or wherever wool-
buyers gather. He’s still convinced
synthetics haven’t a hope.
• •
Landed in Melbourne from London,
new marketing-director for Shell, A. C.
Durie has been with the company for a
bit over 20 years. A break in World War
II —Royal Artillery, rank of lieutenant-
colonel.
• •
Made a landing in Australia (per
piston-engine), Philip Wills, 47-year-old
English businessman and glider-pilot,
winner of the world gliding champion-
ship in England in 1952. Gliding since
1932, the visitor has represented Britain
in every world championship since the
first was held in 1944. Other top-flight
achievements have been British records
for height and distance since 1934, the
world championship for single-seaters at
Madrid in 1952 and runner-up for the
world championship last year. He has
also written many articles on motorless
flight, a book, On Being a Bird, and
hopes to have a lash at the 1956 cham-
pionships. Starting as clerk in the
merchant-firm of G. and R. Wills in
Adelaide 28 years ago, he took over the
chairmanship of the London associates
of the Wills group in 1938. From 1946
to 1948 he was general-manager (techni-
cal) of British European Airways
Corporation.
• •
Dr. J. A. R. Miles left Britain for
Adelaide in 1951 to establish a virus
research-unit at the Institute of Medical
and Veterinary Sciences. Off again now
—to the Chair of Microbiology at Otago
Medical School, New Zealand. Hails
from Sidcup, Kent.
Back in these waters on his first visit
as commodore of the Orient fleet in the
Orsova, Captain N. A. Whinfield, whose
main interest on land is cricket. He’s in
a privileged position—his passengers this
trip included the English Test team, the
third he has voyaged with. He was
fourth-officer of the Ormonde when she
brought Arthur Gilligan’s team to Aus-
tralia in 1924, and, as skipper of the
Orcades, he took Bradman and his crew
to England the last time Don captained
a Test team abroad.
• •
“Fitz”: Little Jack Quinn, N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Librarian from 1924 to 1944, has gone
on. Qf Irish parentage, Jack was born at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) 75 years ago and educated
at Sydney University, where he secured his
B.A. and LL.B. After a short period with a
legal firm he joined, at 20, the staff of the
N.S.W. Public Library. Among his colleagues
at the old Bent-street premises were Christopher
Brennan and Frederick Jordan, later Chief
Justice of N.S.W. In 1909 Quinn transferred
to the Parliamentary Library, and 15 years
later succeeded Frank Walsh as principal
librarian, one of five to hold the post in 98
years.
Short, slightly-built, active, speech rapid and
punctuated with quick gestures, Quinn had an
encyclopaedic knowledge. He had the happy
flair of being able to read at an extraordinary
pace and yet able to retain in his memory most
of what he read. Well versed in the literature
of the world (first preference, France) he was
a recognised authority on detective novels
and for many years reviewed them for Sydney
“Herald” under the nom-de-plume “J.J.Q.”
Quinn belonged to a literary circle that
included Chris Brennan, Jack Le Gay Brere-
ton, A. G. Stephens and Carl Kaeppel.
His office at Parliament House was a port-of-
call for many a down-and-out writer and artist
and none went away without a handout. For
some years before his death he was working
with Prof. A. R. Chisholm on a definitive edition
of Chris Brennan’s prose and poetry, yet to
see the light.
• o
Frank G. Menzies, Victorian Crown
Solicitor, will retire from that job in
January next. He will then join the
board of Brenton Investments, one of
the Capel Court group of Melbourne
investment companies. A brother of the
Prime Minister, he has had close on 30
years of Crown Soliciting, three years of
soldiering in War I, and (for recreation)
likes to sing.
e •
Passed on at Stratford (Vic.), George
Harvard Cranswick. He was son of
Edith Cranswick, that Grand Old
Lady who, wife of a canon and a
devoted church-worker for 60 years,
mothered three sons, two\ of whom
became bishops. Geoffrey F. Cranswick
was appointed Bishop of Tasmania in
1943 ; George H. (of The King’s School,
Sydney University and Oxford) minis-
tered at Brighton (Eng.), in India, at
Chatswood (N.S.W.) and Bendigo (Vic.)
before becoming Bishop of Gippsland in
1917. He had held that post for a
quarter of a century. Chairman of the
Australian Board of Missions 1942-49,
latterly Commissioner for the Australian
Council of the World Council of
Churches, he was 72 at the end. His
mother died last year.
• •
From snotty to First Sea Lord and
Chief of Naval Staff, by way of War I
submarines, Kelly and the famed Fifth
Flotilla, command in S.-E. Asia, C.-in-C.
Mediterranean, Lord Louis Mountbatten,
now boss of the Navy he’s served for 40
years.
» e
John David Rogers, hailing from
Penguin (Tas.), was born in 1895 ; so he
was 19 when he left the chemistry
labs of Melbourne University for the
training paddocks of the old Sixth Bat-
talion. By the time he had landed on
Gallipoli he was one of the youngest
n.c.o.s in one of the strictest and best-
regulated battalions in the A.I.F.
Commissioned before he left the Penin-
sula, he became battalion intelligence
officer under Gordon Bennett, followed
him to the Third Brigade, and later to
division. Rogers had as much front-line
experience as most men of the A.1.F.,
and finished that war with three pips on
his shoulder and MC. on his breast, col-
lected at Armentieres. War II gave him
an equally embracing knowledge of
behind-lines doings—Director of Military
Intelligence on Allied headquarters in
Brisbane —after a tour of the Western
Desert, Greece, Syria and New Guinea.
He was thus well-rigged to represent the
Australian Government at the Jap sur-
render in Singapore in 1945. Rogers’s
civilian record isn’t so dusty, either—
joined Vacuum Oil as a chemist in 1923,
rose to assistant g.-m. in Sydney, by the
end of War II was a director and g.-m.
for N.S.W. Now deputy chairman of
directors.
To advise the Government on produc-
tion of war-vehicles, a Military Vehicles
Industry Advisory Committee has been
set up. There’s not much the chairman,
Charles Arthur Smith, doesn’t know
about his new job. Owning, as well, a
few wrinkles in other spheres, Smith was
born in Birmingham (Eng.), studied agri-
culture, then joined the Canadian Pacific
Railways; saw a war-vehicle or two
with the Canadians in War 1 France and
Belgium, and on demob, in Canada went
into the Income Tax Department. Then
into motor-cars —rising with Ford
through many branches in the Domin-
ion till, in 1948 in South Africa, he be-
came managing-director of the company
there. Since 1950 he has been boss in
Australia, headquartered in Geelong.
Canada’s tremendous supply-contribution
to the Old Country in War II is history;
Smith liaised for his company with the
British Army and Ministry of Supply.
His present job should be apples after
that.
• •
“Morehead”: Typical of the many
young men now writing for The
Bulletin, J. C. Horner, a Tasmanian,
made his debut recently as a story-writer
with his “P for Peter,” although he has
had verses printed in The Bulletin.
Horner has, in common with many of the
paper’s younger writers, a good war-
record and a solid scholastic background.
Born at Gretna (Tas.), he went to Hobart
High School, the Tasmanian Teachers’
College and the University of Tasmania.
When Hitler’s war broke out Horner
joined the R.A.A.F., was trained in Aus-
tralia and Kenya, and served as a navi-
gator on light-bombers in the Middle
East and Central Mediterranean and on
supply-dropping aircraft in Burma. He
was twice “mentioned.” Now a school-
teacher at South Riana (Tas.), he gained
his M.A. degree with a thesis on the
modern Australian novel. He hopes to
gain a Doctorate of Letters with another
thesis on Australian literature. “P for
Peter” is based on an Air Force experi-
ence, and confirms a Bulletin theory
that ii> the fiction field the young writer
is mote assured of success if he keeps to
what he has experienced or observed.
• •
Being a cameraman is not normally con-
ducive to a sedentary life. Alex Cann (here-
with by Lusby) would seem to be proof of this.
Born in Sydney (Cape Breton, Canada),
educated to B.Sc. degree at New York’s
Columbia University, Cann engineered on
survey-and-construction work in Canada and the
U.S. till the depression caught up with his job.
Always interested in the theatre, he wandered
into Hollywood (having married an actress),
got a job playing the bad hombre in Hopalong
Cassidy films, met Slavko Vorkapich, head-
cutter for M.G.M., and through him developed
an eager interest in camera-work and film-
production. Came the war; Cann joined the
Canadian Navy, was one of four survivors of
a corvette sunk on escort-duty, and in 1943,
result of injuries received in the sinking, was
seconded to the R.A.N. as a war-correspondent
(cameraman) in the s.-w. Pacific. He covered
13 amphibious operations, including the
Philippine landings.
Flying back from covering a Biak operation,
Cann’s pilot buzzed-down for a look at a deep
PARACHUTER
valley in New Guinea. Quizzed why, the pilot
explained that an American plane had recently
crashed there with several nurses on board,
and that an attempt at rescue by glider would
be made —from a valley to be known to the
world as Shangri-la. Cameraman’s heart exult-
ing, Cann whipped down to Melbourne, talked
fast, and got permission to parachute in to
film the rescue. Parachute operation performed
successfully; not so the gliding part. It was
three weeks before the Shangri-lans were got
out. Cann settled at one of Sydney’s northern
beaches post-war, and made several documen-
tary-films, including a wool-film for George
Falkiner and one on newsprint-production for
Keith Murdoch. Latterly laid-up through the
Atlantic injury, he’s polishing-off his One
Man’s View, a book on war-corresponding in
the Pacific. General Eichelberger has written
the foreword.
Worked on here by fellow-wardroomer
Woolcott, Captain Richard Hatherell,
D.S.C., one of the Navy’s senior pay-
bobs. In since 1919, Hatherell (being in
a service which carries its fodder with
it) has had a good deal of sea-time, in
battlecruiser Hood, and (war-time)
cruisers Adelaide, Shropshire and Aus-
tralia. A pay-bob being responsible for
the supply, among other things, of such
diverse adjuncts to a ship’s efficiency as
dried peas, battle-dress, tobacco and
compasses, Hatherell had a weighty
responsibility in the Pacific, when, as
PAY-BOB
squadron supply-officer in Shropshire, he
had the Australian Fleet up there on his
shopping-list. Earlier he had been
appointed to Darwin; he was there when
the Japs plastered the town and harbor.
The D.S.C. was instituted by George V
for “distinguished service before the
enemy.” Pay-bob Hatherell won his for
just that —firing a Bofors at the suicide-
bombers which blew off a good deal of
Australia’s top - weight at Lingayen.
“Tubby” to his messmates, a pretty
good bowler and bat (with the distinction
of being the only cadet to lob a sixer on
the gym.-clock at Jervis Bay), he goes
shortly to the flagship, carrier Sydney,
fleet supply-officer.
• •
Half a century back A. H. Yarnold
opened the Mosman (Sydney) Church
of England Preparatory School. He’s
still there, with his pupil-list multiplied
close to tenfold. Three judges were his
pupils—Curlewis, Herron and Clegg—as
were Captain J. M. Armstrong, R.A.N.,
and knight Patrick Taylor. To com-
memorate the head’s half-century, and
those Old Boys lost in both wars (one-
third of the eligible ones joined-up), the
trustees are establishing a scholarship
fund. It’s hoped to raise £4500;
subscriptions to Nugent Wallman, Box
508, G.P.0., Sydney.
• •
Into the Silence:
James Anderson, 79, of Stoney Rises, Cres-
wick district (Vic.). Grazier and member of
a family in the district since 1851.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 67, A. L. Gatland,
till recently chief-superintendent engineer of
the Union S.S. Co. He was a crew-member of
the armed merchant-cruiser Avenger when she
was torpedoed in 1917 in Scapa Flow.
In Melbourne, at 56, Gordon Keith Snow, a
foundation-director of the large firm of men’s-
wear specialists of the name, and at the end
managing-director. Old Digger, he was knighted
in 1949; his brother, Sydney, in 1936.
In Canberra, at 74, Dr. John Howard Cump-
ston, till he retired in 1945 Director-General
of Health and Quarantine for more than 30
years. In India during War II to advise on
health and hygiene, he carried out the job with
such competence that four years ago the Ceylon
Government invited him to report on health-
services on the island. His forthright report
found that much had been left undone after two
years of independent status, and caused con-
siderable resentment among those blamed. But
the Ceylon Government was appreciative, and
Cumpston was to have returned there later this
month. Author of a history of smallpox in
Australia, and several biographies of Australian
explorers, the doctor had also been Common-
wealth film-censor,
In Bournemouth (Eng.'), at 66, Sydney Horler,
prolific producer of whodunits —so many that
Who's Who does not list their titles. Earlier
a schoolteacher, he took to journalism, was
a sub-editor on “John o’ London’s Weekly,”
and in 1925 wrote hjs first book, From then
on he wrote up to five a year.
At Rangiora (N.Z.), at 67, Raymund William
Ward, district public trustee at Rangiora, a
master of languages and an antiquarian.
Nephew of Sir Joseph Ward, onetime N.Z.
Prime Minister, he was educated at Riverview
College, Sydney, and served with the N.Z.E.F.
on Gallipoli and in France. He built up a fine
library of books on foreign customs and
languages, and was an expert on Maori customs
and language.
In Cape Town, South Africa, at 76, George
Henry Oram, in the Customs Department there
for 40 years. A native of Kaiapoi (N.Z.), he
shipped to Durban for the Boer War, joining the
Imperial Light Infantry. His family were all
married in South Africa, the eldest daughter
becoming the wife of William Smuts, cousin
of Jan Smuts.


A LAST ONE FOR THE ROAD


ABORIGINALITIES
A BRIGHT future is forecast for a
young salesman on the staff of a big
agricultural engineering company who
sold a two-stand milking-machine to a
cocky who had only one cow, and
accepted the cow as deposit on it, —
“Tibi.”
♦ * * *
“Billy T.”: After a lecture on termites
the conversation was pretty confident —
you put bits of tin here, creosote there,
a whiff of poison somewhere else and
you make it pretty tough for the
beasties to find an entry. Then came the
first really warm day of spring, and on
the way up the hill for firewood we
spotted a few winged explorers wandering
about like lost helicopters. The nearer
the top the thicker the swarm, until
right beside the old yellow mound that
has stood there for years the air was
black with them. Along what had been
a smooth clay waff there were rows of
little openings, all horizontal and close
like portholes on a liner, and from these
bodies poured head to tail as fast as they
could squeeze out. A puff of a southerly
came up and away they went down the
hill towards sheds, fences and homes,
whilst amongst the dry logs every crack
was stuffed with discarded sooty-brown
wings, and only the odd straggler had
failed to find its way inside to where
darkness and tucker awaited it. What
hope have you got?
* * * ♦
“Quo Vadis”: But surely my brother
Aboliars jest! Not one has named my
black-and-white feathered minstrel which
"There's none coming out this end, Mabel!"
carolled our translation of his song
(“Dirndl talk, calla tomahawk, also
Donald Duck”) in the bush on a fresh,
moonlit morning (B. 15/9/’54). Bow
low, you no-hopers, you’ve missed some-
thing! You’ve never heard the magpies
“carol in the dewtime cool and clear !
Believe me, it s worth hearing.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Crusoe, the big, blundering,
good-natured, half-bred-pointer pup,
came gambolling clumsily across the pad-
dock. Suddenly he jammed the brakes
on, fell over his feet, clambered up again
and with nose to the ground began
excitedly back-tracking. Abruptly he
stopped. For a second it seemed the
blood of his ancestors was going to make
something of the slap-happy attempt at a
point, but the various other breeds won.
With a joyful yelp he leapt forward a
pace—and immediately flung himself
backwards in ungainly retreat. He
circled, barking loudly with great
courage—and more bluff; one moment
his belligerent nose was thrust out be-
tween his huge, protruded paws, the next
the whole three were jerked back as
though by unseen elastic. It seemed he
could have a snake bailed-up, so we inves-
tigated. Twenty paces away Crusoe saw
us coming. Dutch-courage born of moral
support came to him, and he leapt in.
Suddenly the paddock rang to howls of
anguish. He fell over backwards,
blundered to his feet and, yelping, set out
for distant parts. But despite the mighty
pace he was making and the vigorous,
frantic head-shakings the object still re-
mained clamped to his floppy ear. When,
at dusk, he sheepishly came slinking in,
the skin of his ear wasn’t even broken.
But he lets sleeping frill-necks lie now.
“Kerba”; The late Sir James Jeans,
in his The Stars in Their Courses, des-
cribed the motion of the stars in a very
simple manner (B. 15/9/’54). As he puts
it, most big stars have at least one satel-
lite held captive by gravity; like a big
child playing ring-a-rosie with smaller
ones, they go around and around in small
circles, but at the same time they steadily
work their way around, maypole-
fashion, in a huge circle that circum-
scribes the Pole Star. Of the myriads of
stars (and Jeans states there are more
stars in the universe than grains of sand
on all the beaches in the world) the Pole
Star alone appears stationary to earthly
observers, but even it has moved in the
short time-—astronomically —of 7000
years; Chinese charts of the heavens,
drawn in 5000 b.c., show the Pole Star
on the opposite side of the Equator.
**„ * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Section of an old
“block” road, last of its kind in W.A., is to
be preserved as a memorial to the pioneers
who built it. They couldn’t have a better
monument. The road was built by felling
trees up to 3ft. in diameter, sawing off
rounds about 9in. thick, and laying them
side by side on a formed sand founda-
tion. First tried in the 1870’s, no doubt
on account of the difficulty of carting
gravel through virgin bush, the practice
continued for over 20 years. One of the
roads was in use until the 1930’5, when it
was replaced with bitumen; and for that
time it had carried heavy traffic, includ-
ing wagon-loads of firewood up to 10
tons, and a big proportion of Perth’s
vegetables. A bit rough, but it was built
for rough work, and took it. Curiously,
these roads weren’t attacked by termites.
Most of the blocks were white-gum, and
any of that timber left lying around
alongside the road was quickly riddled;
but apparently the termites objected to
traffic running over their meals,
* * * *
“Kelms”: They’re going to put 10 acres
G f Perth’s King’s Park in with Westralian
wildflowers, thus hoping to save some of
the rarer types from extinction. It’s a
necessary step, and may already be too
late in some cases. Fortunately, the early
days of W.A.’s settlement coincided with
a remarkable interest in the new country’s
flora and fauna, and botanists were active,
They had plenty to work on. Von Mueller
estimated there were about 3700 species
of wildflowers south of the tropics, and
there have been many more found since
then, as well as about 2000 north of 28.
That also gives the King’s Park gardeners
plenty to work on, and they should be
able to provide a fine display; but it’s
to be hoped they don’t follow the example
of the artists and concentrate on the
flowers of the south-west. Some of these
"I got him for two-hundred pounds when I nodded to a mate
at the last stud sales.”
are beautiful and rare—kangaroo-paws in
their various types, and qualup-bells, and
the numerous orchids will have to be
included —but for a really good display
give me the desert country after good
rain. I’ve seen the country between
Southern Cross and Coolgardie carpeted
with blooms, and further out I saw a
patch that I estimated at about five square
miles—and you could hardly drop a
tennis-ball between the blooms. Came
the same way six months later and the
country was dry and bare. But I knew
the seeds were lying in the dust waiting
for the next rains.
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: Don’t know whether
“Nakh” is having us on about those
snakes (B. 13/10/’54) or the two school-
boys had him, but unless a strict one-way-
traffic rule prevails in the holes those
snakes slide down, there are healthier
pastimes than shoving a hand down to
drag ’em out. Reptiles in every other
place—except, evidently, Warrnambool
(Vic.) —have a disconcerting habit of
doing an about-face after entering a hole,
thus presenting their business-ends to-
wards anybody with such ideas about
dragging ’em out. Still, at least the kids
didn’t try to put over the old bush classic
about the Joe that was trying to crawl
into a hole but kept being
thwarted by a bloke who re-
peatedly grabbed the dis-
appearing tail and yanked
the reptile out again. Finally
the Joe turned around and
wriggled down the hole back-
wards. The last fellow who
told me the tale declared that
the snake poked out a deri-
sive tongue as he backed out
of sight.
* * *
“Horseless H”; Increase
in the possum-population on
the plains of Victoria’s Wes-
tern District is primarily due
to the prevalence on that
bleak undulating landscape
of big stacks of grass-hay.
But the new marsupial army
is also fast hastening the end of the few
remaining gums thereabouts. On
Ghazeepore Estate at Freshwater Creek
almost every white-gum I saw was dying
or dead. The owner, Gregor Mclntyre,
said the silver-greys, tired of the rich
grass, lucerne and clover-hay, took to the
gums en masse as a change of diet.
* * * *
“Gull”: Sartorial standards in the
wood-butchering trade extend further
than “apron or overalls” (B. 6/10/’54).
It’s not so very long ago that some of the
diehards in the N.S.W. branch of the
union sought to' bring before its annual
conference a resolution deploring the
increasing tendency of young men to
work in shorts, thereby degrading their
calling. The proper dress for a carpenter,
they asserted, should include dark work-
ing-trousers and a waistcoat, and they
requested the passing of regulations to
that effect. From the styles I see on
various jobs round about, the- idea
apparently never reached the agenda.
“Killanoola”: A major disappointment
to the late Prof. Wood-Jones was his
failure to save the Toolachi wallaby from
extinction. The Toolachi once roamed
the grass-plains of south-east S.A. and
portions of western Victoria in countless
thousands. Its gait was distinctive, con-
sisting of two little hops followed by a
flying leap. It carried the best
fur of any wallaby, so was diligently
hunted. Owners of greyhounds coursed
it for “sport,” as its leaping and dodging
made it difficult for dogs to catch. Then
the fox arrived and began to snap up the
baby wallabies. By 1914 its numbers had
been reduced to a few hundred
on Conmurra station; by 1920 only
a few dozen were left. Wood-
Jones petitioned the S.A. Govern-
ment to have a few transferred to the
fox-free sanctuary of Flinders Chase, on
Kangaroo Island, but no action was
taken. A few years later, finding
that only half • a dozen remained,
he took matters into his own
hands. After rigging up long lengths of
fishing-net leading to a trap-yard, he
enlisted the aid of landowners in
driving the surviving wallabies into
the trap. Unfortunately, some of the
younger men forgot their instructions to
move the animals slowly and raced after
them on horseback. As a result, all six
wallabies were chased until they dropped
dead. That left a solitary doe in captivity
at Robe. The S.A. Museum made a film
of her before she died —and then the
Toolachi species had gone beyond recall.
The thing which grieved Wood-Jones
most was that about £5O spent by the
Government in 1920 would have saved
this beautiful little animal from
extinction.
• •••••
“Mick O’Mallee”; One of Wood-
Jones’s greatest contributions towards
the spreading of scientific knowledge was
his wonderful exhibit, in the S.A.
Museum, which explains the birth of the
kangaroo. Step by step it illustrates, by
means of preserved specimens, the growth
of the embryo in the uterus of the mother,
until it is about the size of a newborn
rat. It then explains how it is born in
the ordinary way, climbs to the pouch by
the use of its well-developed forelegs and
there attaches itself to the teat, where
it completes its development, as shown
by a further series of specimens. It
would be difficult to estimate the number
of people who, previously convinced that
the young kangaroo is “born on the teat,”
been converted by this display. One
of them was a man who went there say-
ing “All the professors on earth won’t
convince me. I’ve shot thousands of
’roos and I know they’re born on the
teat,” Next day he made a public and
handsome apology.
YOUNG HARRY
Stocky young Harry rose from bed,
Squjnted to see a red sun rise.
“Never saw a palm-tree yet,” he said.'
-Rolled his bluey, raised Mis head
(Cousin Jack jaw and dreamer’s eyes),
Strolled away in a fog of flies.
His boots rose up, his boots fell down,
His big red kelpie ran behind.
By ironstone ridges with a wattle crown,
By ironbark flats burned dry and brown,
He travelled north. Travelling blind,
Steered by a wordless need in his mind.
He came at last, in summer weather,
To sea as blue as an opal stone.
Forgot the miles of worn-out leather,
Seeing the coconuts hang together,
Hearing white reef-waters moan—
But his red dog died and left him alone.
Stocky young Harry, stripped to his skin.
Spat; then dived where the eddies swirl.
Down to the deeps where the gropers grin
In a clear wet world of scale and fin
He swam with a steady stroke and whirl.
There in the silence he found a pearl.
Harry came home to his own red town.
Where trees bleach white and dust lies red,
Brows drawn tight in a thoughtful frown
And a restless sigh as he squatted down:
“He saw a palm and the kelpie’s dead.
Where did he steal that pearl?” they said.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.


THAT old - time master - builder
known as “Murphy” (B. 6/10/’54)
had his own way of dealing with men
who developed a swelled-head. One day
he sent for a certain leading-hand and
said in an. unusually gentle voice: “I’ve
heard whispers that you’ve been saying
this firm couldn’t carry on without you.
Is that true?” The employee spoke up
firmly: “Yes, I did say that; and what’s
more, I don’t think the firm could carry
on without me.” Murph regarded him
keenly. “Hmm,” he said. “But suppose
you were to die, we’d have to carry on
without you then, wouldn’t we?”
“Y-yes,” admitted the indispensable one ;
“I suppose you would have to then.” The
old fellow suddenly whipped out a time-
sheet from his pocket. “This is your
funeral-notice,” he drawled. “You die
tomorrow.”—“Harbel.”
* * * *
“Kelms”: Not far from Perth the first
successful artesian-bore in Australia is
still running. Sunk in 1871 to a depth of
171 ft., this bore established the fact
that an artesian-basin existed, and encour-
aged further exploration in other States.
The next bore to strike an aquifer was
sunk to 237 ft., at Sale (East Gippsland)
in 1880. By 1903 it was recognised that
several basins existed, and in that year
a bore sunk at Madura showed there was
pressure-water underneath the Nullar-
bor. The big basins have all been pretty
well mapped now —the Great Australian
Basin takes in parts of four States and
covers 678,000 square miles —but it must
be considered a stroke of luck that the
Kelmscott and Sale bores struck water
at shallow depth. If the nearest water
had been about a couple of thousand feet
from the surface the geologists might
have found it hard to prove their theory
right.
* * * *
“Emjai”: I knew another country bank-
teller who, like “Ceg’s” (B. 15 /9 / ’54),
dispensed with his trousers while on
duty behind the counter. He found him-
self in a predicament when a lady pre-
sented a cheque and asked for fivers.
The stock in his counter-drawer had cut
out, but he couldn’t tell her he had none
when the bundles were in full view on
the shelf behind him only a few paces
away, but sufficient to expose the situa-
tion. Quick thinking was called for: He
closed his eyes, pressed his hand to his
sweating brow, and, pushing two-bob
across, gasped: “Could you get a nip
of brandy from the pub next door? I’m
feeling a bit faint.” As his customer
turned to oblige he leaped back and
grabbed a bundle of notes.
* * * *
“The Bunyip”: No “will-o’-the-wisps”
in Australia (B. 13 /10/’54)? When in
the ’9o’s the Kooweerup Swamp was
drained —it had until then barred
settlement from near Melbourne into
South Gippsland—the resultant “land”
was mostly peat into which you’d sink
over your knees. With traffic it settled,
into black soil, but for years afterwards
when ploughing in a wet season, you’d
breathe a sickly gas which set up a dull
ache in the pit of the stomach and
lasted for an hour or two after you’d
knocked off. When floods came you’d
get whiffs of it any time, and it was when
the land was left cold and sodden, and
never a breeze stirred the night air, that
Dad, coming in after dark, would say
“The Jack o’ Lanterns are out tonight!”
and we nippers would pull a bit closer to
the fire. Saw them myself when work
began to keep me out late; a soft,
ghostly-blue bobbing slightly where a
moment before there had only been
blackness, and I felt the tingle round
the hair-roots as, standing stock-still, I
“Bit of a nargument about peaceful co-existence."
waited to see which way the Jacko was
going to drift. A big one would be no
bigger than a football, and they travelled
more than a chain or two before they'
vanished; but, although by then I knew
where and when to expect them and
what caused them, I always made pretty
good time up the track after they blinked
out.
* * * *
“Viper”* A Dr Lowenbach suggests
possums are “even more beset than the
average psychiatric patient by such traits
as severe anxiety neurosis. depression,
lack of initiative and recession into them-
selves.” The doc. has sought to remedy
this shocking state of affairs. At a U.S.
university he dished out shock-treatment
to some possums, and now reports a
heartening up-grade in
environment among those so treaiea.
These short-cut methods are all very
well. But shouldn t the possums be pro
perly analysed to discover the source
their primary psychological trauma.
* * * *
“Simon”: “Fair Mac’s” carpenter-
cobber whose kid misspelt the name of
a tool (B. 13/10/54) could have avoi e
the pother by adopting my method of
quick i d e ntl fi ca t lo n. r^Whenhangmg we P
the saw, auger, biace an , ’
and allthe rest thd7
hue round them foil.Dwmg shape.
Within twen y y . & missing
you can not y
but you know what tool t .
MALLEE PARROTS
Along the lines of thin white wire,
See where the mallee parrots, weary
Of cracking the grass-gold seeds
To stay their carnal needs,
String themselves like abacus beads,
Behind them, the orchard’s oranges,
Like golden midnight-moons,
Glow dimly in the glaucous green;
Their fires burn unseen.
Five and five and three —thirteen.
Oh, the scarlet-fired forehead
And sunlit neck and breast —
Thirteen, lucky thirteen, to see
Against the orange-tree,
A living sky, a winged sea.
They rearrange to count again,
By shuffle and sidle and slide;
Whatever it is, it’s counted well —
But who can ever tell
If it’s wings of heaven or fires of hell?
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.
DOES POLITENESS PAY?
EVERY so often a public man arises
in righteous wrath to denounce the
lack of politeness in our midst, and in
particular that lack of it to be observed
in what he refers to as the present
generation. Yet is politeness something
to be eagerly advocated, emulated and
practised? There are times when the
pursuit of this minor sport can be a
source of acute embarrassment and even
physical danger.
It was perhaps right enough for the
old-timer who wore sideboards, tight
trousers, self-igniting celluloid collars
and cutaway coats to bow low to a lady
when introduced to her on the edge of
a city footpath. The worst hazard he
had to face was that a carriage-horse
standing near by might take a bite out of
the rim of his bowler, or he might have
his eye gouged out by the point of a
passing 18in. hatpin as he came to
the vertical again. But no man in his
right senses would these days attempt it
and risk getting his stern shorn off by a
passing taxi.
An alleged golden-rule taught by Mama
to her son was that when elbow-steering
a girl along a footpath he should always
take the outside running—that is, on the
kerbside. Presumably the reason was
that if a steamroller got out of control.
"We encourage prisoners to have a hobby-dancing is his."
a horse bolted or a tram ran off the rails
it would be his gallant privilege to get
flattened out, galloped on or mangled
and so preserve the girl for someone else
to marry. . . .
Those who first set the rule idiotic-
ally failed to foresee the advent of the
swiftly and silently approaching water-
truck with its high-speed jet, and the
astronomically mounting cost of dry-
cleaning—two items which were to come
into conjunction almost simultaneously.
After all, how much more economical is
it to put the girl on the outside! Her
nylons, if they happen to get splashed,
are easily washed and at no cost, and her
toe-peeper shoes can in the simplest way
be poured out. A man’s trousers, were
he to be caught on the outside too often,
would cost him a small fortune in dry-
cleaning bills.
Time was, before the equality of the
sexes was triumphantly acclaimed by
women as an accomplished fact, when
men would politely stand back from a
public vehicle and let all the women
have the seats. Yet what did such a
thing achieve? It meant grossly un-
economical use of available seating-
space. The most cursory glance at a
woman’s figure—though it must be
admitted that the cursory type of glance
is the one most rarely used —as compared
with a man’s, will lead to the swift and
unassailable calculation that eight women
seated will take up exactly the same seat-
space as ten men.
How much sounder, then, especially
from the point of view of transport
authorities harassed by the ever-pressing
problem of moving peak-hour crowds, is
the present method of ingress whereby
women are elbowed or hurled aside in
the rush for the available seats! It means
that only the few women—the aggressive
beefy sorts and the battleaxes with sharp
elbows —can compete on the same
footing as the men. The rest stand;
politeness has been forced upon them.
But then women have, as they never tire
of reminding man, stood so much since
the dawn of time that a little more won’t
do them any great harm.
Many a well-meaning but misguided
man still feels impelled to haul off his
hat immediately he enters a lift. What
happens? He holds it at his side, and
the lift starts to fill up. Not until he’s
jammed in like a sardine does he realise
the danger and try,to elevate it back to
the safety of his scone. Too late! Soon
the crush is terrific, and he finally emerges
with his cady reduced to an amorphous
ruin. Thus is politeness-discarding
learned the hard way.
With women, politeness and hats are
mixable. What man hasn’t had to dodge
from side to side in a picture-show to
overcome the formidable obstacle of an
oscillating feather or the umbrageous
circumference of a cartwheel-hat that
she refuses to doff in case the perm
suffers? All honor, then, to the exasper-
ated but impolite gent, who hopped
around and took the vacant seat immedi-
ately in front of one adamant offender
and put his own hat on —and he was
6ft. 2in, as a start-off.
The supposed politeness which takes
the form of pushing a chair under a lady
as she sits down to table can be a posi-
tive menace. You might be stiff enough
to pick a 14-stone hostess. You pull the
chair and push it under her. Then you
feel impelled to finish the job by pushing
her and the chair in towards the table.
The ensuing struggle so exhausts you
your enjoyment of the victuals is com-
pletely ruined.
The first and last time I committed this
bit of polite fatuity wasn’t, I must con-
fess, a happy occasion. I had pulled the
chair out; then my fascinated gaze
became riveted on an approaching
waitress with short skirts and a beautiful
pair of legs. Next thing I heard was a
crash.
That politeness can breed animosity
and even open strife I can attest. Two
well-dressed men were standing in my
railway-carriage when a seat became
vacant. Oozing politeness, one of them
motioned to the other to accept it. The
other, not to be outdone, protested. “No,
you take it —you got in before me.” “No,
I’m sure it was you.” “No, you’re wrong,
old man —you got in before me.” The
other polite bloke looked at him with
a glint in his eye. “Listen,” he said,
“I said you got in first—are you calling
me a liar?” “Why, you half-witted ape!
shouted the other polite one. “You
wouldn’t notice it if a tool-shed fell on
you, let alone whether I got in first or
not!” Thus the yike started.
So, you see?
Bo.


T"™" — •~">1
:
m:- : : - "■
m
s
-f,
••••
Wm
‘ Tou asked for Benson & Hedges cigarettes, Sir? ”
For occasions when the merely good
must yield place to the unquestionable
best, BUNSONcmdHEDGES provide their
Super Virginia Cigarettes made from the
finest of fine tobaccos . . ,
f’ APPOINTME
HISTS TO
THE LATE KING GEORGE >
wm/J j/o'
w
London or Paris or Singapore
Just as surely as the experienced, observant traveller can name
those rare qualities which give distinction to famous hotels through-
out the world—from London, Lisbon and Paris, to Melbourne,
Nassau and Singapore—so will he notice, on his varied journeys,
how often Benson & Hedges Super Virginia cigarettes from London
have freshly travelled the self-same path.
The M.C.C. Team smoke Benson Sr Hedges
SUPER VIRGINIA cigarettes exclusively.
BEX SOX & HEDGES LTD • OLD BOXD STREET ■ LOXDOX- W
<BW/LaS
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.
IXL - AJC
OK - VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies !—*
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Business. Rollery. etc.
Varying Economic Breezes
CJTANIFORTH RICKETSON,
_ of the Capel Court group of
investment companies, speaking
at the annual meeting of Brenton
Investments (Australia), Ltd.,
told shareholders that “the long
succession of favorable balance-
sheets continues, with disclosures
of surprisingly good profits, and,
in the majority of cases, increased
ordinary dividends. A schedule
covering 1389 companies which
have made dividend-declarations
since the end of December last
shows that, in no fewer than 578
cases, distributions to ordinary
shareholders have been
increased. A total of 766 of these
companies maintained last year's
rates, whilst only 45 of them
declared lower dividends.
“The improved company
results,” continued Mr. Ricket-
son, “have been due in part—in
some cases wholly— to the sub-
stantial reductions in company-
tax rates conceded in 1953-54. It
may, however, be significant that
few company reports contain
pessimistic notes, suggesting that
directors generally anticipate that
results at least as good as in the
year just closed may be obtained
in the current period.”
Mr. Ricketson’s summary of
company results for 1953-54 will
do well enough to confirm the
forecasts made by The Bulletin
from soon after the presentation
of the 1953-54 Budget. Nearly
a year ago a period of increased
dividends was forecast here —
partly because of tax-cuts, partly
because of increased output—and
the statistics Mr. Ricketson has
taken the trouble to compile
show that one out of every
2.4 public companies increased
its dividend. What is more,
the dividend in shareholders’
hands has not borne the penal
property rate of tax that
operated in respect of the
previous year’s dividends.
The present position, as has
been pointed out here over the
past two months, and as Mr.
Ricketson agrees, is subject to
some change. Lower wheat and
wool prices, the boom in
imports, and the previously
abundant consumer - credit
facilities have created a situation
where some reassessment of the
outlook has been necessary.
Prompt corrective measures
have been taken by the central
bank and the import-control
authorities. The effect has been
to steady the economic position
and to warn those in control of
industry and business not to
count on plentiful credit and
unlimited spending-money to
sustain demand, but to budget
for an output more in keeping
with normal requirements of an
expanding population that is well
paid in proportion to the services
it renders in return. It is this
rather low rate of service that it
renders which makes the durable
goods it buys—household appli-
ances and the like —so dear.
For the first three months of
the present wool-selling season
the average price realised for the
clip was 12 p.c. lower than in the
preceding corresponding period.
The cheque (£49 million, against
£55 million) was down almost in
the same proportion. Income
from wheat is down more
heavily, and the season does not
promise well. But it is possible
that many manufacturing indus-
tries will have a better trading
year this term than last, though
the lower income from exports is
bound to make itself felt in the
availability of funds for capital
expenditure and investment.
Already the poorer export season
has been more evident on the
Stock Exchanges than anywhere
else.
But, even if money is not so
free as it might be, and notwith-
standing slightly longer yields
sought by investors, the long-
term outlook is governed more
by the prospects of increasing
our productivity per head than
by any other factor. Upon our
man-hour output depends our
costs, and if costs can bfe reduced
to any extent there is likely to
“ Gentlemen , our sinking fund has sunk!”
be a continued eagerness to
supply funds for new or expand-
ing enterprises.' Over the past
seven years our population has
increased at twice the rate that
it did during the previous seven,
but already there is a scarcity of
labor in many industries. .Much
depends upon increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness of the
labor force that is available.
The financial year 1953-54 was
one of record manufacturing out-
put, and it is noteworthy that
during the period output per head
was generally higher than at any
other time.
From Mr. Ricketsdn’s point of
view:
The continuing growth in popu-
lation, combined with the fact that
Australia is still a country of full
employment—lndeed, labor shortages
are developing—carries an encourag-
ing message for all genuine in-
vestors. It means that all sections
of economic activity will require to
be progressively expanded to take
care of the ever-growing number of
people needing goods and services
over a wide range. This presages
a continuation of new share-issue
opportunities, which recently have
been more numerous than ever 'be-
fore. The flood of such new issues
may, indeed, be considered acceler-
ated in the immediate future in view
of the fact that bank-accommoda-
tion, particularly for capital works,
may become increasingly difficult to
obtain.
Already the tightening of
bank-accommodation has had the
effect of sending most hire-
finance companies to their share-
holders for more permanent
capital. It is obviously a wise
move, but it will reduce the ratio
of earning-power to capital for
the time being.
National Bank Issue
The one-for-two issue being
made by the National Bank of
Australasia will carry a 30 p.c.
premium on the amount to be
paid on application, regardless
of the nominal value of the
shares.
There are two classes of
shares at present issued by the
bank—£l fully-paid ords, and
£1 ords. called to 12s. 6d. Of
the former class, 3,726,025 are
already issued; of the latter,
4,800,000.
The new issue is of 1,863,012
£1 ords., payable in full, plus
6s. premium, on March 31,
1955, and 2,400,000 £1 ords.,
payable to 12s. 6d., plus 3s. 9d.
a share premium, on the same
date. The shares will rank in
full for dividend from April 1,
1955. Books will close for pur-
poses of determining right of
participation in the issue from
January 27, 1955.
Present paid-up capital of the
National is £6,726,025. The
new issue will raise the total to
£10,089,037, while £1,008,904
will go to share-premiums
reserve. (Paid capital of the
Bank of N. S. Wales is
£13,179,000; that of the A.N.Z.
£10,200,000.) The issue of the
scrip at a3O p f c. premium will.
of course, make the div. (at
present at the rate of 8 p.c.) look
more than it really is in the
hands of shareholders ; and in
view of the political criticism
of banks that periodically arises
it is difficult to see the wisdom
of banks issuing new shares at
a premium. The National, how-
ever, isn’t on its own in this
regard ; last issue (in 1953) by
the Bank of N. S. Wales was
at a p.c. premium.
It has been the practice in
the past to buy the National’s
12s. 6d.-paids on a basis which
-gave a lower yield than the £l-
paids, there apparently being a
feeling that the 7s. 6d. on the
contnbs. would one day be
called up. The nature of the
present issue should discourage
any hopes of the uncalled
money being asked for in the
foreseeable future.
Expansion in the National’s
capital-account since World
War I has been mainly the
result of absorptions the
Colonial Bank in 1918, the Bank
of Queensland (itself an amal-
gamation of the Bank of North
Queensland and the Royal Bank
of Queensland) in 1921, and the
Queensland National Bank in
1947.
Sterling-area Reserves
Commenting in its annual
report, the Commonwealth Bank
mentions that, after a serious
fall of $2182 million in 1951-52,
gold and dollar reserves of the
sterling area rose by $682 million
in 1952-53 and by a further
$650 million, to $3017 million,
in 1953-54. The major part of
the increase in reserves in 1953-
54 occurred in the second half
of the year, when seasonal
factors are more favorable, but
the movement was reinforced by
an inflow of short-term capital.
Another notable feature was
the increasing strength of sterling
in spite of uncertainties about
the extent to which lower busi-
ness activity in the U.S.A. would
affect sterling reserves.
Australia, the central bank
reports, usually has a deficit
balance with the dollar area,
covered by a surplus with other
non-sterling countries. This
arises from the three-cornered
nature of Australian trade. In
1953-54 Australia had a deficit
of about £6O million with the
dollar area, which was about
£3l million larger than in 1952-
53. On the other hand Australia
had a current-account surplus of
£154 million with other non-
sterling countries, compared
with a surplus of £176 million in
the previous year.


CAMPING
For real warmth, comfort, years of
wear, nothing equals a “Superdown”
Sleeping' Bag in “Japara.” Unbeat-
able value, £6/10/-. With hood,
£7/5/-. Post 3/11. Hikers’ water-
proof “Japara” Tent, 4ft. 6in. x 4ft. x
4ft. 6in., £3/19/6. Post 3/6. Each
article is guaranteed.
L.8.M.C., 91 Oaks Avenue,
Wee Why, Sydney, XW 8745.
A
Tenders
Re Estate GEORGE HERBERT SCOWN
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of
Gold Mining Lease No. 181, known as
“Reform,” on Wenlock Goldfield, Cape
York Peninsula, together with all Im-
provements thereon. Plant and Equipment.
Further particulars concerning the Lease
will be supplied to intending Tenderers,
but no warranty or representation is made
as to the nature or possibility of the re-
covery or profit from the Lease, and
Tenders must be submitted on the sole
investigation of the intending Tenderer.
Tenders close at the Office of the under-
signed at twelve noon on Wednesday, the
Eighth day of December, 1954, and should
be sealed and endorsed “Tender Estate
George Herbert Scown deceased.”
V. .1. ZONCA,
Local Deputy Public Curator, Cairns.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
t
A.C.A. policies
AM
For
★ UFE
★ FIRE
* HOUSEOWNER'S
& HOUSEHOLDER'S
* ACCIDENT
* PERSONAL
ACCIDENT &
SICKNESS
+ MOTOR
VEHICLES
>
r
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated !n N.S.W.)
Head Office: A.C.A. Building
66 King Street, Sydney. 8X2165
D. J. Mooney, Esq., Managing Director
Branches throughout the Commonwealth
&
g
(/
r/u
•=m.f
ShuNuk warriors open fuel cans
with their spears
It happened in 1925, at Malakal, in the
burning heat of the Sudan. Alan Gobham
was blazing the trail for an Imperial Air-
ways route from London to the Cape,
flying a DH 50 with a 385 h.p. Siddeley
Jaguar air-cooled engine.
At Malakal—as at all other landing
points on this historic flight—supplies of
BP Aviation Spirit were waiting. The
Shulluk warriors, their bodies glistening
in the sun, first performed a war-dance,
in honour of the strange bird, then
pierced the lids of the BP cans with their
spears to help in the refuelling.
Alan Cobham fought his way through
sandstorms and dangerous landing condi-
tions. Today, hundreds of aircraft fly
every year along the route that Gobharn
opened.
Since then BP Aviation Service has
come a long way. Today, geared to keep
pace with future developments and
demands, it is ready at all times to provide
aviation fuels speedily and efficiently.
VflV lATIDN
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd
SERVICED
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Despite all their earnest back-
slapping and demonstrative adu-
lation, most delegates to the
Conservative conference at
Blackpool returned home in
thoughtful mood and not with-
out misgivings.
Many delegates expected to
hear something definite from the
Prime Minister about his future
plans and were very disappointed
at his keeping them guessing.
The uncertainty, they consider,
is bad for the constituencies and,
indeed, for the party organisers.
Churchill could still be a power
in world influence, as well as the
Conservative party’s greatest
asset, if he took a back seat.
And it wouldn’t then be neces-
sary to parry questions about his
being too old for Prime Minister.
While other Cabinet Ministers
showed themselves in the flesh
and endorsed their popularity,
Mr. Butler was the only one to
proceed, yet again, from strength
to strength. This achievement is
remarkable, for there was no
nonsense about him, no smooth
words or consoling promises.
Even his theme, “Invest in Suc-
cess,” was qualified by a frank
assessment of the limitations of
a present-day Chancellor. He
conveyed plainly to the meeting
that there was little hope for the
boons dear to their hearts. Re-
duction in Government expendi-
ture and substantial tax-conces-
sions were impossible while he
was committed to maintain the
Welfare State. Similarly, his
declared intention to strive to
double the standard of living in
the next 20/25 years was no
mere pleasant-sounding loquac-
ity. He meant it, appreciated the
underlying difficulties and, in the
minds of his audience, was
obviously the man for the job.
Disgruntled Busmen
Transport strikes as a rule
peter out because the workers
are so near to the public they
serve. But it has long been
noticeable in the metropolitan
area that drivers and conductors
have been “taking it out of” the
public by various sullen and
subtle means. They have been
working under a sense of griev-
ance. They are, in fact, minor
casualties of the Welfare State
with its overfull employment.
Overworked and underpaid, as
they consider, their resentment
can be traced to a public
announcement of some weeks
ago that the average minimum
weekly earnings among industrial
workers amounted to £lO ss.
This touched-oft' an outbreak of
unhealthy self-commiseration on
these lines: basic wage under
£8 ; tiring shift-work, aggravated
by missing home-comforts, in-
cluding TV ; mates leaving for
higher pay with regular hours;
and increased strain for those
remaining.
They are, moreover, frustrated
because they know well enough
that there is no real solution to
their plight, except by a dispro-
portionate and unwarranted in-
crease in fares. So it is a simple
truth that, although “emergency
schedules” is the label attached
to the strike, most of them don’t
really know why they have come
out. The busmen have little in
common with the dockers.
On the employers’ side, the
London Transport Executive has
acted properly but firmly, mind-
ful of its duty to the public.
After the unofficial overtime ban
had been imposed the executive
offered a revision of the overtime-
and duty-system which would
have added another £1 a week
to the workers’ earnings, but this
was rejected. The union
appealed for a withdrawal of the
overtime-ban so that further
negotiations could be opened.
This was refused. The executive
then had no alternative but to
revise the existing schedules in
the interest of the public. The
unofficial committee acted at
once and called for a strike
which, despite the underlying
discontent, has always been half-
hearted.
The busmen —and bus-women
—have served Londoners well
and cheerfully in the past. They
don’t like themselves in the
capacity of churlish attendants.
And, given alleviation of their
pains and fears, they would
co-operate loyally with both
employer and passenger. To find
even a part remedy is, unfor-
tunately, anything but easy.
Grant Opera
The Arts Council receives an
annual grant-in-aid of £785,000,
of which £569,000 goes on
general expenditure on the arts.
If this latter sum were with-
drawn, declares the council in
its ninth annual report, “nearly
all the national institutions of
music and drama would have to
close down.”
We have this out every year.
Can we afford it? Can we afford
not to afford it —and more?
These being times of reasonable
prosperity and plenty, current
opinion inclines to the view that
the State should be more gener-
ous. After all, there is no other
patron left. Particularly when
the annual subsidies of other
European countries are taken
into account. Italy gave £1
million to opera alone ; France,
£1,347,500 to four national
theatres (including nearly £1
million to the Comedie
Fran9aise); and the city of
Hamburg allocated £877,000 to
the arts, with £251,000 to music
and drama alone.
Always sensitive to London’s
high proportion of the grant, the
Arts Council suggests that pro-
vincial local-authorities should
buckle to and stimulate interest
in the arts so that, when the
ground is prepared, it may step
in with practical encouragement.
The report, with down-to-earth
insight into changing habits,
feels that the new audiences in
industrial areas might be better
cared for. It also points out that
coach-parties think nothing of
travelling to Blackpool from
places as far away as Aberdeen
and Cornwall to spend a few
hours looking at the illumina-
tions, but that people generally
object to paying more than ss. a
seat for “culture.”
At all events, London has
plenty to offer in the way of
indigenous opera. Sadler’s Wells
has presented two full-length
operas in Lennox Berkeley’s
“Nelson” and Benjamin Britten’s
“The Turn of the Screw,” and
we are soon to have new operas
by William Walton and Michael
Tippetts.
A pleasantly gratifying even-
ing at the Wells could hardly
have occurred without the grant-
in-aid, for neither of the two
one-act operas had the box-office
appeal of, for instance, a Cole
Porter musical. “Love in a
Village,” a ballad opera on con-
temporary eighteenth - century
airs, is rather self-consciously
Olde Englishe, and the chuckling
humor of the production is not
sustained. But “A Dinner En-
gagement” is delightful stylised
fun. It deals with the culinary
immaturity of an impoverished
Earl and the impact upon his
wife and daughter of a Grand
Duchess and her princely son, at
whose court he was once ambas-
sador, Paul Dehn’s libretto is an
essay in witty understatement
and Lennox Berkeley’s music is
cunningly two-faced; his vocal
line is easy on the ear while his
accompaniment is abstruse. This
is brilliantly performed by an
orchestra of twelve soloists. And,
rarest of treats for a playgoer, the
acting is as good as the singing.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
lex “ nd « Stewart (Chairman); G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J.
Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Hefiert
W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Does your WILL still express your intentions?
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you consult your Solicitor and have your
Will revised periodically to meet changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate
charge, the services of a company with over 75 years’ specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
/
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR138.35
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
A MONG those hardest hit by the rush
of imports, credit-restrictions and
fall in raw-wool prices during 1952 were
local textile - manufacturers. These
troubles have since been largely over-
come, thanks mainly to import-restric-
tions, a reduced but still big wool-cheque,
high level of employment and, last but
not least, steadier operating and other
costs.
As wholesalers and retailers worked
down their swollen inventories, demand
for locally produced textiles recovered,
and so did net earnings of those in the
industry. What happened in the Yarra
Falls group—largest and one of the most
efficient woollen and worsted yarn-spin-
ning and -weaving organisations in the
Commonwealth —is seen in the following
table:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves, f
& £ £ £
1950.. 299,002 12} p.c. = 125,000 174,002 922,032
To staff fund, £26,000 .. .. 896,032
Deferred tax, £1332 ~ .. .. 894,700
1951.. 313.251 12} p.c. = 200,000 113,251 1,007,951
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 987,951
Profit sale assets, £ll5B .. .. 989,109
Tax arrears, £B5O .. .. .. 988,259
1952.. 73,012 8 p.c. = 160,000 901,271
Profit sale assets, £2129 .. .. 903,400
Tax overprovided, £65,000 .. .. 968,400
1953.. 240,891 8 p.c. = 160,000 80,891 1,049,291
Loss sale assets, etc., £986 .. .. 1,048,305
From tax reserve, £61,872 .. .. 1,110,177
1954. . 333,804 10 p.c. = 200,000 133,304 1,243,481
* After eliminating outside interests. t Excludes
replacement reserve, now £495,922.
Despite bigger imports of woollen yarns
and piece-goods, following the easing of
restrictions, the group’s own output
increased substantially last term. Turn-
over (£5,292,833, up £462,815) rose by
9.6 p.c., the price of raw wool was com-
paratively steady, and wage- and other
operating-costs were less troublesome.
The improvement in net earnings was
£92,413. That was after allowing
£47,343 (up £10,490) for depreciation,
£188,633 (up £16,598) for taxation and
sending £14,937 (up £3488) to plant-
replacement reserve. The £333,304 of
profit claimed was 16.6 p.c. on capital
as against 12, 3.6, 19.6, 29.9 and 25.8
p.c. back to 1949. The div., lowered
from \2\ p.c. in 1951 to 8 p.c. for the two
following years, was lifted to 10 p.c.,
making the average distribution for the
last eight years 11.8 p.c. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 8.9 p.c.
The three main units of the group are
the parent co., whose big mill is at
Abbotsford (Vic.), and two subsidiaries.
Globe Worsted Mills, Ltd., Marrickville
(N.S.W.), comparable in size with the
Abbotsford plant, and Yarra Falls
(Dandenong) Pty., formed in January
last with an issued capital of £250,000
to take over the parent’s branch mill at
Dandenong (Vic.). Here extensions
were recently made to the factory, and
more plant is on order. A third and
small subsidiary, Byfas Pty., at Abbots-
ford (Vic.), which turns out dress-goods,
had a disappointing experience last
term.
The year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus, or working capital
(£2,361,103), was £119,834, while £101,614
net was added to the book-value of plant.
largely on account of the new Dandenong
subsidiary:
Yarra Palls and Subsidiaries.
1952. 1963. 1954.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £ 2,000,000
Outside interests.. 1,005 1,285 4,311
Reserves .. .. 901,274 1,049,295 1,243,481
Replacement res... 469,578 481,004 495,922
Overdraft . . . . 826,739 751,135 786,859
Sundry creditors! 378,908 545,141 524,383
Staff funds .. 91,801 89,085 86,547
Pinal div. .. 80,000 80,000 100,000
Total .. £4,749,390 £4,996,895 £5,241,503
Freeholds .. .. 522,461 548,125 538,856
Plant, etc. .. 664,862 742,141 843,755
Stocks .. .. 2,977,541 2,770,369 2,964,785
Debtors .. ~ 431,543 779,652 728,105
Shares ~ .. 67.774 55,747 55,747
Govt, bonds, etc... 85,209 100,861 110,255
Total . . £4,749,390 £4,996,895 £5,241,503
f Including tax provision.
Stocks (in at cost or less) were up
£194,416 and debtors’ balances down
£51,547 —demand eased slightly around
balancing - date, but has since
strengthened. The co. went to its
bankers for an extra £35,724 and reduced
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., by £20,758.
Main trouble at the moment, and one
likely to grow worse before it gets better,
is that local costs are out of line with
those of overseas competitors, who
work longer hours at relatively lower
wage-rates, advantages which the co.
has been unable to offset by increased
mechanical and managerial efficiency. It
has thus lost most of the export trade it
had built up since the war, except with
Canada, and the industry is asking for
increased tariff-protection. The co.’s
mills are expected to be fully occupied
during the current term.
The recovery in earnings fitted in with
market anticipations. At 40s. (41s. a
year ago) the f.-p. £1 shares return 5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or 6 p.c. on a
12 p.c. distribution. Including plant-
depreciation reserve, net tangible cover
is 375. 4d.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
ALTHOUGH the co. enjoys a
position in the high- and
medium - grade furniture, furnishing-
drapery, china, glassware and kitchen-
ware trades etc., and has a sound
financial structure, its scrip is among the
high-yielding stocks in the market. That
is because the trade, in which com-
petition is keen, is sensitive to fluctua-
tions in economic conditions.
Since the war the co.’s policy has been
to keep the div. moderate and strengthen
the support for capital, visible and other-
wise. Over the last decade reserves,
after deducting goodwill (£67,660), have
grown from £40,350 to £331,276, while
capital has remained steady at £464,187
in 30,000 7 p.c. first and 52,500 8 p.c.
second prefs. (both subject to the now-
outmoded N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act)
and 381,687 ords. The ord. div., which
climbed by halting steps from 2\ p.c. in
1944 to p.c. in 1949, and remained
steady till 1953, was lifted to 10 p.c. last
term, when, for the first time since 1930,
the second prefs. received their full con-
tract rate. For the five years to 1953
the firsts received their full 7 p.c. and
the seconds and ords. p.c.
Profits, which reached their peak in
1951, fell sharply in 1952 and eased
further in 1953, due mainly to effects
of the rush of imports and competition
upon retail prices, and of the tightening
of credit upon activity in the building-
trade, and the demand for furnishings,
etc,, that go with it.
Last term the whole economic struc-
ture, including costs, steadied, and build-
ing and other trade activity strengthened
as the year advanced. Demand was also
stimulated by growth of consumer-credit.
For the year to June 30 last total value of
household and personal goods sold in
N.S.W. on h.-p. (£4.4 million) increased
by 61.8 p.c., while the growth in the
amount financed on h.-p. (£3.6 million)
was 69.8 p.c. Retail sales of electrical
goods shot up by 20.6 p.c,, furniture and
floor-coverings by 10.6 p.c, and hard-
ware, china and glassware by 9.4 p.c.
After setting aside £6509 (down £2684)
for depreciation and £42,995 (up
£15,612) for taxation, net earnings took
a leap of £20,840, reaching £67,262,
second best in the co.’s history;
, —Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7i p.c. 1i p.c. serves, serves.*
££>£££> £
1949.. 59,733 2100 3938 28,627 25,068122,550
1950.. 59,924 2100 3938 28,627 26,261 147,810
Inner reserves disclosed, £69,000t. • 216,810
1951.. 91,518 2100 8938 28,626 56,854 278.664
Federal land tax surplus, £8075 .. 281,739
1952.. 49,649 2100 3937 28,627 14,985 296,724
1953.. 46,422 2100 3937 28,627 11,758 308,482
8 p.c. 10 p.c.
1954.. 67,262 2100 4200 38,168 22,794 831,276
* After deducting goodwill, £67.660.t From stock
reserve, £51,500, and contingencies reserve, £17,500.
Allowing full contract rates on both
lots of prefs. (£6300), enough of last
term’s profit remained to show 15.9 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 10.5, 11.3, 22.3,
14, 14 and 12 p.c. back to 1948. The
increased div. thus called for a shade
under two-thirds of the bigger net earn-
ings.
Balande-sheet figures mainly reflect
brisker trading and a better flow of
goods, following relaxation of import-
restrictions ;
1952. 1953. 1954.
Capital .. .. 4464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Reserves .. .. 364,384 376,142 398,936
Creditors .. .. 195,100 92,749 132,661
Tax provision .. 80,750 29,500 44,500
Final divs. ~ 34,604 20,772 28,668
£1,139,085 £983,350 £1,068,952
Freeholds, etc. ~ 332,852 332,852 332,852
Plant ~ . . 18,935 14,190 10,395
Stocks .. .. 605,865 456,862 517,920
Debtors .. .. 112,373 110,386 138,725
Cash .. .. 1,400 1,400 1,400
Intangibles .. 67,660 67,660 67,660
£1,139,085 £983,350 £1,068,952
To carry an extra £61,058 of stocks and
£28,339 more book-debts the co. leant
upon sundry creditors, including its
bankers, for an additional £39,912. The
improvement in the mofe-or-less liquid
surplus (£452,216) was £26,589.
At 28s. 9d. (235. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. return 6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Last reported sales of the
first and second prefs. was at 245. each,
giving a yield of 5,8 p.c. and 6.6 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover is
£26 10s. 3d. firsts, £l4 11s. 7d. seconds
and 375. 4d. ords.
Bruce Pie Industries (Bris.)
SCRIP in a new textile-manufacturing
concern is essentially a holding
proposition, because it takes time to
overcome the technical, marketing and
other problems inseparable from
establishment and growth, and to build
up reserves and financial strength. The
performance of this eight-year-old is
proof of the quality of the control, as
well as encouraging evidence of the co.’s
long-term prospects.
Although paid capital (now £675,000)
has more than doubled, and despite the
general economic setback of 1952-53, the
co, has never failed to earn a profit or pay
a div. The rate climbed from 3 p.c. for
the first year to 6 p.c. in 1951, fell to
5 p.c. and 3 p.c. for the two following
terms, and rose to 5 p.c. again for the 12
months to June 30 last, when those on
the register could see the whole of their
capital intact and £65,973 besides.
The two small concerns taken over at
the start —Queensland Textile Co. and
Bruce Pie Bedding Co. —kept the pot
boiling until the big new worsted-
spinning and -knitting factory, which was
erected at Kedron, near Brisbane, got
into production during the 1949 term. A
ready market awaited output, and
earnings responded nicely in 1951. Then
followed the temporary setback in the
industry already referred to. Still, with
an eye to the future Queens-
land’s population is expected to increase
by about 17 p.c. over the next decade —
further additions were made to
spinning, knitting, bedding, gameting
and other plant, and paid for mostly out
of money received from profitable sales
of surplus freeholds.
Last term opened with trade sticky,
but output and sales improved as the
year advanced, and the mill has been
working two shifts since October, 1953.
So, with the help of a small increase in
selling-prices, the year ended with turn-
over (amount not stated) up 17 p.c.
Costs were steadier, and the improvement
in net earnings was £23,240, or
83.5 p.c.;
To Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends serves. Deficit.*
1947 .. 8,305 3 p.c. = 4,690 3,615 12,316
1948 .. 12,200 3 „ „ 9,000 3,200 9,116
Added goodwill, etc., £3917 .. 13,033
1949 .. 24,031 5 p.c. = 18,423 5,008 7,425
1950 .. 28,446 5 „ 22,500 5,946 1,479
Res.*
1951 52,888 6 ~ „ 29,809 22,579 21,100
1952 .. 42,443 5 „ „ 33,750 8,693 29,793
Profit sale fixed assets, £10,917 .. 40,710
1953 .. 27,827 3 p.c. = 20,250 7,577 48,287
Profit sale fixed assets, £369 .. 48,656
1954 .. 51,067 6 p.c. = 33,750 17,317 65.973
* After deducting intangibles, written off 1954.
The £51,067 of profit, written after
allowing £14,000 (unchanged) for
depreciation and £25,200 (up £12,000)
for taxation, was 7.5 p.c. on capital as
against 4.1, 6.3, 10.5, 6.3 and 6.5 p.c.
back to 1949.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1952. 1958. 1954.
Paid capital .. £075,000 £075,000 £675,000
Reserves .. .. 35,793 52,288 65,974
Overdraft .. .. 146,073 92,171
Sundry creditors.. 127,528 159,068 160,795
Final divs. .. 33,750 20,250 33,750
£1,018,144 £906,606 £1,027,690
Freeholds .. 149,357 154,031 190,099
Plant .. ~ 140,285 134,736 137,919
Shares subsid. .. 116,142 116,142 116,142
Stocks . . .. 512,440 308,983 456,581
Debtors .. .. 98,496 121,263 125,802
Cash .. .. 424 67,451 1.147
Intangibles .. 6,000 4,000
£1,018,144 £906,606 £1,027,690
During the year seven new bays were
added to the main mill building to house
bedding plant, and the book - value
of freehold increased by £36,068. To help
meet the outlay, carry an extra
£147,598 of stocks and £4539 more book-
debts, the co. drew upon cash for £66,304
and went to its bankers for £92,171.
There was only 3s. lOd. of outside money
in the business for every £ belonging to
shareholders when the books closed, and
no heavy outlay on capital account is
expected over the next few years.
Although the trading outlook is bright
enough at the moment, competition
promises to get more of an edge on it,
there has been an 18 p.c. drop in price
for clean scoured combing-wool of
average 60’s count since the books were
ruled off, and marginal wage-rates might
rise before long. For these and other
reasons the market doesn’t expect an early
lift in the div., and prices the f.-p. £1
shares at 14s. to return 7.1 p.c. on a
5 p.c. distribution. Net tangible cover
is 21s. lid.
Mount Morgan, Ltd.
THE mine is a big open-cut proposi-
tion, involving some intricate and
expensive engineering problems connected
with removal of overburden. Two
sulphide mills, combined capacity 85,000
tons a month, handle the ore, and the
concentrates are treated by the co.’s own
roasting-, smelting- and converting-units.
To help finance advance removal of
overburden (mainly connected with the
Sugarloaf extension of the ore deposit)
and production of pyrites, etc.,
£1,000,000 of 7 p.c. pref. capital has been
issued since Dec., 1952, the last £300,000
shortly before the close of accounts at
June 30, 1954. Issued capital then stood
at £2,700,000 in 300,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs.,
2,000,000 10s. 7 p.c. convertible redeem-
able prefs. and 2,800,000 10s. ords.—
there was £122,972 of the pref. money
still to come. Since the close of accounts
the 300,000 £1 prefs. have been


Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty. Etd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need be made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
♦ * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone; MX 2208.
rf Waltons Ltd, Soundly Established
on Profitable Chairman
Mr. N. B. Rydge at 28th Annual Meeting of Amalgamated Retailers Ltd.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
For the last 23 years it has
been my pleasure to report an-
other year of progress and on
this occasion I am pleased to
report the most successful year
of all.
The launching of Waltons was
the most notable achievement in
the Company’s long record of
continued success. Waltons Ltd.
is now soundly established on a
very profitable basis. Every store
in the group and each classifica-
tion of merchandise is now trad-
ing at greatly increased levels.
The sales volume of the
Waltons Department Store, Park
and George Streets, Sydney, for
the year just ended was 3J times
the volume on which this store
was acquired by your Company.
RECORD PROFITS IN THE
YEAR
The profits earned in the year
reached the record amount of
£343,488 after absorbing the
whole of the considerable cost in-
volved in establishing Waltons.
The profit is equal to a rate of
26% on ordinary Capital after
Preference Dividends. In ad-
dition, the internal reserves and
provisions of the Company were
substantially increased.
Again, it is my pleasure to an-
nounce that the Board recom-
mends payment of an Ordinary
Dividend at the rate of 15%.
This will make the eighth suc-
cessive year in which this rate
has been paid. Fifteen per cent,
has now been paid for 15 out of
the last 20 years. In that time
the rate of Dividend has never
been less than 10% and the
average rate paid was 14%.
GREATLY INCREASED
VOLUME OF BUSINESS
Total volume of business of
the group increased by 55% to
more than £16,000,000 for the
year.
The history of this Company
is one of progress and in the
past three years the rate of
progress has been greatly accele-
rated, volume having increased
from £6,500,000 for the year
to June, 1951, to more than
£16,000,000 for the year ended
July, 1954.
ASSETS EXCEED
NINE MILLION POUNDS
Shareholders will have observed
that Assets now total £9,752,315
and that the increase during the
year amounted to £3,802,023.
£766,018 of this increase resulted
from revaluation of properties
owned by the Company and this
amount has been added to Assets
Revaluation Reserve. The object
of this revaluation was to include
these assets at a figure nearer to
their present-day worth. The
Board has no intention of capi-
talising the Reserve which has
been created.
A considerable part of this re-
valuation is associated with the
Park and George Streets Depart-
ment Store and it seems oppor-
tune to mention that the deal
that was made by your Company
in acquiring that Store has
proved not only advantageous to
the operations of the Company,
but that it was made on a fav-
ourable basis.
ISSUED ORDINARY CAPITAL
DOUBLED
To assist in financing the
greatly increased volume of
business which had been created,
your Directors in January last
offered to holders of Ordinary
Capital the right to apply for
one share for each one held. As
a result the Issued Ordinary
Capital of the Company was in-
creased by 2,057,216 shares of
12/- each. This issue was the
fifth issue of Ordinary Shares
made within a period of four
[ years. Pour of these issues were
made at par and one was a bonus
issue in the ratio of one for four.
INCREASE IN LONG TERM
BORROWING
Your Directors firmly believe
that a reasonable proportion of
funds required to finance the
business of the Company should
be obtained by the issue of long
term Mortgage Debentures. Such
funds provide added stability to
the financial structure and per-
mit definite long term planning.
J. B. Were & Son, following an
investigation of our operations
and our plans for the future,
agreed to underwrite an issue of
£1,500,000 Registered Mortgage
Debentures and the whole of this
issue was allotted in June last.
SCOPE FOR EXPANSION
Waltons Ltd. has been pat-
terned on the Sears Roebuck
Company of America, the world’s
largest and most successful gen-
eral retail organisation.
The success of the “Sears”
method of retailing is based on
the simple principle of “giving
the Public the benefit of our
massed buying” and an examina-
tion indicates the strength in-
herent in the marriage of this
form of retailing and finance. It
is proven by the outstanding suc-
cess of the Sears Roebuck Com-
pany in America, in Canada and
in South America, and our own
results in Australia, where every
Walton Store has shown a marked
increase in sales.
The Australian economy is ex-
panding and your Company sup-
plies the essential needs of the
family and the home. It is ap-
parent that a vigorous pursuit
of these methods must bring
expansion and prosperity to your
Company. The rate of this ex-
pansion will be limited only by
tiie trained personnel and funds
available from time to time.
Arrangements have just been
completed to acquire the thriv-
ing Sydney Suburban Furniture
business of Dobbs Bros. Pty. Ltd.,
Manly. Our methods will be in-
troduced into two stores of this
Company and in due course they
will be added to the Walton
Chain.
RETAIL METHODS BENEFIT
CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES
AND SHAREHOLDERS
The efficiency of this new and
improved method of retailing
benefits the buying Public by
providing them with quality
goods at lowest prices; benefits
shareholders by adequate returns
on money invested and benefits
employees by offering greater
opportunities for promotion and by
enabling them to earn remunera-
tion commensurate with results.
Wherever possible employees are
offered incentives in the form of
bonuses and commissions. In the
past year many calls have been
made on our staff and I would
like to pay great tribute to
their efforts, loyalty and co-
operation, without which the re-
sults achieved would not have
been possible.
RESULTS FOB CURRENT
YEAR
The results for the eleven weeks
of this current financial year to
14th /October, 1954, are again at
record levels, both as to volume
of business and profits.
AN APPRECIATION
The Directors would like to
record their appreciation of the
outstanding job of work done by
Mr. John R. Walton, your Man-
aging Director. The importance
of this and its value to the Com-
pany we feel cannot be better told
than by this year’s Accounts
which reveal the progress made
and the very profitable position
enjoyed by the Company,
COMPANY NAME
WALTONS LTD.
AND 5/- SHARES
As advised by our Directors’
Report, copy of which you have
received, we propose to seek your
approval, at the Extraordinary
General Meeting which follows,
to change the name of your
Company to Waltons Ltd. and to
subdivide the present Ordinary
Stock Units and Shares of 12/-
each into the denomination of
5/- each. The latter change has
been requested over many years
by Shareholders and I believe the
benefits of the change of name
will be apparent to all share-
holders.
I now formally move that the
Directors’ Report and audited
Balance Sheets for the year
ended 31st July, 1954, be received
and adopted.
[The proposals altering the name to Waltons Ltd. and subdividing the Stock
Units and Shares were approved by Shareholders at the Extraordinary Meeting.
1
redeemed; leaving paid capital
at £2,400,000.
The slip of £7381 in last
term’s profit was due mainly to
the effect upon costs and metal-
production of a three-months’
shut-down of the smelter for
overhaul, which was partly off-
set by bigger sales of pyrites:
Ord.
June, Income. Exes.f Surplus. Div.*
£ £ £ £
80 p.c.
1951 1,699,945 1,829,238 310,707 280,000
20 p.c.
1952 2,453,023 2,067,445 385,578 280,000
1953 2,658,043 2,210,017 448,026 280,000
1954 2,738,837 2,298,192 440,645 280,000
* Prefs. received 7 p.c. p.a. ( £21,000).
t Includes depreciation and taxation.
Last term’s exes. include
£lOO,OOO (unchanged) for depre-
ciation, £35,000 (up £17,049) for
taxation, as well as £383,228 of
a total expenditure of £656,281
on removal of overburden —the
other £273,053 was capitalised,
being added to advance over-
burden removal account, making
it £459,919. On capital as it now
stands, the £440,645 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div.
and leave 26.4 p.c. available for
the ords. The div. was kept at
20 p.c., and it might be a while
yet before the rate is lifted.
Mining and assay figures com-
pare as follows:
Sulphide
Waste Ore f Assay N
June, Discarded, Treated, Gold, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Dwt. p.c.
1951.. 1,402,131 864,900 2.33 0.62
1952.. 1,618,842 892,250 2.19 0.70
1953. . 2,521,004 834.200 2.45 0.92
1954.. 2,878,046 824.050 3.02 0.96
It was a small shoot of rich ore
on No. 6 bench that lifted the
gold content above average. The
ratio of overburden removed to
the 917,306 tons (up 6950 tons)
of ore mined was 3.14 to 1 as
against 2.8 to 1 and 1.7 to 1 for
the two preceding years. Over-
burden-removal is being stepped-
up in order to gain access to the
Sugarloaf extension of the main
ore-body. That portion of the
cost which has been temporarily
capitalised is to be ultimately
wiped out as the ratio of over-
burden to ore falls below aver-
age for the whole mine (1,8 to
1).
The mills produced 54,437
tons (up 4560 tons) of slightly
higher-grade concentrates, which
contained more gold and cop-
per. But smelter-production was
down for reasons already
stated:
/ Metal Content
Blister, Copper, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Tons. Oz. Oz.
1951 .. 4168 4119 65,135 17,415
1952 .. 5651 5584 72,925 24,250
1953 .. 6237 6154 61,640 24,220
1954 . . 5474 5402 61,945 18,195
The local fixed price of copper
per ton fell from £350 in August,
1952, to £330 in April, 1953, and
to £320 (including £2O from the
equalisation pool) in October,
1953. Since this date Morgan,
by agreement, has received £315
for its copper. In addition to
the above metals the co. pro-
duced 58,850 tons (up 11,970
tons) pyrites, assaying 47.4 p.c.
sulphur. Sales totalled 81,830
tons, taken by the British
Phosphate Commission on
behalf of inter-State fertiliser-
manufacturers, whose demand
for the stuff is expected to pro-
gressively increase.
Mining and ore-treatment
costs were 2s. 7d. heavier at
375. 4.3 d. per ton. Smelter costs,
which averaged £7B 11s. (up
£l6 Bs. Bd.), were only
£63 15s. Bd. per ton of copper
for the second half of the term.
Ore reserves (treatable
t J r„ e s 27 “
2 JTgold ,102
and approximately 15 p.c.
sulphur
aw stores ,£686,442,.
sm6 , *S
and mere was ±3 BU,y4b coming
to the bank and sundry creditors.
At 24 5. 3d. (21s. 9d. a year
ago ) the ords. give an immedi-
ate return of 8.2 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div. basis, with prospects. The
immediate yield from the prefs.
a t j2s. 6d. is 5.6 p.c.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
To provide for enlargement
of its Adelaide store, Cox Bros.
(Aust.), Ltd. (B. 13/10/’54), has
just bought all the issued ord,
shares in Rex Theatres, Ltd.,
for £102,412 cash. It has thus
acquired an Adjoining freehold,
frontage 52ft., making the co.’s
total frontage to Rundle-street
138 ft. When the co. took over
Sydney Snow Pty., Ltd,, the big
“aSro£
«***y twm it bought the
leasehold portion of the
premises, frontage 45ft. to Pitt-
h&.*.»s**s**s
6 . ,n f| t Pin-street
T, u ' nu succl »
£reehold '.
Shaw River Alluvials
Launched in Sydney a couple
of months ago to take over and
work a number of tin-bearing
and other mineral claims on the
Shaw River, near Marble Bar
(W.A.), Shaw River Alluvials,
N.L., has an issued capital of
£300,000 in ss. shares. Addi-
tional tin-bearing areas in the
same district are now being
taken up at a cost of £llO,OOO.
To meet the bill those on the
register at November 12 are to
be offered 600,000 new ss.
shares, one for two. It is
estimated that the new
areas contain over 10,000,000
c.y. of wash, with a tin-content
expected to approximate that of
the original leases, where re-
coveries of 6.21 b. t.o. per yard
have been obtained, and a lot of
the metal is said to have remained
in the tailings. A profit of
£300,000 a year on working
account is now spoken of, as
against an original estimate of
approximately £155,000 p.a. The
latter figure was based on
ground averaging 51b. t. 0., an
80 p.c. recovery, and costs at
10s. a yard. The tin-bearing
wash averages about 2ft. 6in. in
thickness, and is covered by only
2ft. to 3ft. of overburden.
* * • *
The announcement by Gold
and Mineral Exploration, N.L.,
that it has found a nickeliferous
deposit in the remote nor’-west
corner of South Australia, has
aroused interest both locally and
overseas. Although the ore, a
sample of which is now being
assayed, is thought to be rich,
and the lode is said to outcrop
for some miles, it is too early yet
to form any worth-while opinion
of the find.


Women’s Letters
ẁ
All Saints’ Church, East St. Kilda, was
the setting for the wedding of Judith,
elder daughter of Mrs. E. M. Taylor, of
Bayswater, and Mr. W. Taylor, of
Tooradin. The bride’s ballerina frock
of white guipure lace had a fitted short-
sleeved bodice and a Tudor collar. A
tiny lace cap of guipure lace held in place
the hip-length tulle veil and she carried
a bouquet of Cecile Brunner roses and
lily-of-the-valley. Her sister Elizabeth
’maided in a ballerina frock of ming-
blue nylon-cotton ; she wore a wreath of
pink blossom in her hair and carried a
matching bouquet. The ’groom is the
elder son of Mr. and Mrs. W, Forbes, of
Windsor.
Reception was at the English Speaking
Union rooms in Toorak-road, where the
bride’s mother received the guests in a
frock of black French faille and a cinna-
mon-brown tulle picture-hat. Mrs.
Forbes’s frock was of pale-blue voile
shadow-patterned in black, her wide-
brimmed hat of black lace. Mrs.
Margaret Saker, the bride’s grandmother,
wore a beige French-wool ensemble, the
full-length coat featuring silver-fox-fur
cuffs; her platter-beret was of black
velvet. Among the guests were Mr.
and Mrs. L. Mustar, Mrs. Leslie Saker
and Mr. and Mrs. Jim King, of
Jindivick.
Eileen Ashcroft, who is on a visit here
with her husband, is a special writer on
the London “Evening Standard.” Husband
is editorial director of the “Daily Mirror”
and “Sunday Pictorial.” This is her third
visit to Australia, where she has many
friends. Very fair, she has the English-
woman’s peaches-and-cream complexion.
Her home in London is at Chelsea.
Yallambee, the Hawthorn home of
Sir Owen and Lady Dixon, will be the
setting for the English Speaking Union
“World Fair” to be held on Saturday,
November 13. At a meeting at which
Lady Dixon was in the chair, members
were asked for donations of cash and of
articles to stock the stalls, and also to give
personal assistance on the day of the fair.
The Younger Members’ Group has
undertaken to run a Boutique Stall, and
the Common Interests committee will
organise a large Christmas-tree on
which they plan to hang many gifts for
sale. Sir Owen Dixon is president of
the E.S.U. and his wife is chairman of
the fair committee. She would be very
glad to receive gifts from the country
to stock the produce-stall.
☆ ☆ ☆
Curtain-raiser to the race festivities was
the late-afternoon party given by Mr. and
Mrs. J. Bowen Pain in the Matthew Lang
cellars. As well as the hospitality, guests
were able to enjoy a small exhibition of
paintings by Reshid Bey. Receiving the
guests with Mr. and Mrs. Bowen Pain
and Reshid Bey was Madame Reshid,
who wore a wide-brimmed hat of black
eyelash-straw with her midnight-blue
faille coat, which had sprinklings of
rhinestones on the wide shoulders. Mrs.
Bowen Pain’s choice was a frock in
warm-red toning topped with a tiny black
cap. Among the guests were Captain
and Mrs. Gordon Chirnside (Madame
Reshid’s parents), Mrs. Frank Tait, the
W. K. Burnsides, Colonel and Mrs.
James Stewart, Mrs. John Casson (her
husband’s portrait was in the exhibition),
Mrs. Graham Farquharson (whose por-
ẃ
understanding and humanity that is most
appealing.
Representing Mrs. Keyes at the
opening of the exhibition (which
unfortunately was on a most miserably
wet day) was daughter Elaine, who is
visiting Sydney from W.A. and who
plans to move on to her native New
Zealand in February for a tour of the
islands. Gaynor and Wendy Barnes,
from the West, were also at the opening,
and Gaynor will later travel to N.Z. with
Elaine.
This is a recent photo taken in London
of Sydney-born author Catherine Gaskin,
whose latest book, “Sara Dane,” has
just been published. Miss Gaskin, a
natural storyteller and an assiduous
worker, produced her first book, “This
Other Eden,” when she was 16, and now,
at the age of 24, has six novels to her
credit. All her books have sold readily,
but the nomination of “Sara Dane” by
the American Dollar-Book Club brings
it into the field where royalties run to
thousands of pounds. Miss Gaskin has
been living in London for the past four
years with her sister Moira, who has
also written a book, “Heaven Knows
When,” and is writing another. Both
girls plan a visit to Australia in the near
future. Photo by Gabor Denes (London).
Tremendous organisation must have
gone into the Health Exhibition at the
Town Hall, and there really was a great
deal to do and see and learn there, but
it was no place for the weakling. The first
message one saw on entering was that
NOISE CAN RUIN HEALTH, and
the first impression one got on entering
was that the noise in the hall was quite
shattering. There was a puppet-show
on road-safety with magnified sound of
grinding brakes and traffic-noises, there
was hammering from a display of foot-
wear, there was a great cranking sound
as a man worked a fearful machine called
an ergometer, there were the voices of
many demonstrators and the cries of lots
of children. As one staggered from the
hall, wiser and shakier than one entered,
one realised that the exhibition had really
proved one point at least —noise can
ruin health.
☆ ☆ ☆
An unusual function will conclude
the work of the Lady Mayoress’s ball-
committee for the year, and it is thought
that this will bring the proceeds of the
ball to £lOOO. It is to be a cocktail-
party at the new Victoria Park
swimming-pool on December 17, the day
before the pool is to be opened to the
public. Swimming demonstrations and
a 50yd. sprint will be featured by
N. women champion swimmers, and
there will be a mannequin-parade and
musical items, so it promises to be some-
thing quite novel and enjoyable,
☆ * it
How soon we might expect atomic
power to be used for domestic purposes
was discussed by Professor Baxter,
O. at the last Red Cross meeting.
Apparently research can begin here quite
soon because technical information is
to be released to Australia by Britain
and America. But it will be 10 years
before plants will be built to provide
heating and lighting in the home, and
then it is not likely that they will be in
N.S.W. because there are good supplies
of coal here. The atomic power the
housewife will use won’t differ much from
the electric power she now uses, but or
course its source will be different. How-
ever,” said Professor Baxter, “in the dis-
tant future, perhaps for the benefit or
our children or grandchildren, it may oe
cheaper.”


THE QUEEN VICTORIA MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
172 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
(In the heart of the City)
TRAINING SCHOOL FOR GENERAL NURSING
(Affiliated with the Alfred Hospital for Male Nursing)
Applications are invited for
TRAINEE NURSES
Good Conditions, 40-hour Week. Nurses may live out if
desired.
Apply MATRON—FB 2031
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager,
For Sale
MT. IRVINE (Near Mt. Wilson).
“XAIHOA,” HIGH-CEASS LONG-
ESTABLISHED GUEST HOUSE or
MOUNTAIN HOME, with 50 acres,
including fully - grown garden,
avenues of chestnuts, walnuts,
poplars. Rich volcanic soil. Spring-
water, sewered, 64 miles from Sydney,
or will sell with 10 acres. Apply—
H. HAMILTON MOORE & CO.,
Solicitors, 7 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. BX 3144.
Missing Friend
TO BETTY HELEN WILLY formerly of
34 Oxford Street North Geelong in
the State of Victoria AND TO GERALD
GRANT formerly of Douro Street North
Geelong in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that GEORGE HENRY WILLY
of 84 Oxford Street North Geelong in the
State of Victoria has instituted proceed-
ings against you BETTY HELEN WILLV
for Divorce on the ground of adultery and
has named you GERALD GRANT as Co-
Respondent therein Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the Ist day of December 1954 the
case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs.
Public Notice
I, MICHAIL LAFIS, Stateless, born Galatzi,
Rumania, resident 4J years in Australia,
now residing 216 Bourke Street, Darling-
hurst, Sydney, intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD JAiIES MITCHELL late of
53 West Street, Petersham. —TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY JOYCE MIT-
CHELL has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1405 of 1963 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street ’Sydney by 14/2/’55 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MIOHELL GEE WILSON & CLAPIN,
Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
O. A. H. HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE JOSEPH MACDONALD
late of Lidcombe.—TAKE NOTICE that
BETH WILMA MACDONALD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1276 of 1964 on
the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 21st
February 1955 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from A. J. P.
HALL & HALL, Solicitors, 44 Martin
Place, Sydney.—o. A. H. HARMS. Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JERZY ZIELINSKI late of Tal-
fourd Street Glebe Point.—TAKE NOTICE
that SONJA ZIELINSKI has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2480 of 1954 on the
grounds that you have during three years
and upwards been an habitual drunkard
and have habitually been guilty of cruelty
towards her and that you have during
three years and upwards been an habitual
drunkard and habitually left her without
the means of support If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 28th February 195.5
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. HUNT & HUNT,
Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H, HARMS, Acting Registrar.
you can put 700 lb. of meat in
There are many times when you have meat or supplies in
quantity or when reliable food preservation over a long
period could be of great assistance to you. Stock might be
at its best for the table ... an abundance of vegetables
. . . Spring, for killing poultry at its best. All are
occasions when you really appreciate a Flashfreeze quick-
freezer. For with a Flashfreeze you can store food in bulk
at these times and keep it safely, till needed. For instance,
fresh beef, lamb, mutton, pork, veal, poultry, butter;
fruit, vegetables, baked bread and fruit cake can all be
stored in a Flashfreeze for as long as 12 months without
deterioration in flavour or nutritional value. Then, there is
the convenience to be considered. Besides having food at
its best, you always have a goodly supply on hand because
these units are large, the one illustrated above having
a capacity of 20 cu. feet and holding 700 lb. of meat or
an equivalent quantity of vegetables or other food stuffs.
All Flashfreeze models have at least 2 compartments for
long storage quick-freezing. However, some models have an
additional section for refrigeration for your normal day to
day needs—a combination of the best in quick-freezing
and refrigeration.
this
quick-freezer
Other Flashfreezers include:
PR22. Freezer-Refrigerator Combination, ICJ
cu. ft. of freezing space, 3i cu. ft. of refrig-
eration. PRI4. Freezer-Refrigerator Combina-
tion, Ioi cu. ft. of freezing space, c'u. ft.
of refrigeration. PI2. Freezer—capacity 12
cu. ft. For full information and details,
contact:
ŵ
WOYFf BROf. (fYDNEY) ITD .115 Clarence St.. Sydney. 80254
SUNDRY SHOWS
Artbursts
Meldrum
There are 50 pictures in the
retrospective exhibition of Max
Meldrum’s paintings at the
National Gallery in Melbourne.
All are splendid. There are
“The Peasant of Pac£,” painted
under the terms of the Travel-
ling Scholarship before he had
fully formulated his theory,
“Picherite’s Farm,” painted
when he was under the spell of
Corot, “Dr. Forbes McKenzie,”
one of his Archibald Prize
winners, some of the lovely
series of Seine pictures, “The
Artist’s Mother,” “Archbishop
Mannix,” the Olinda landscapes
painted when he returned from
Europe and several of the many
portraits of himself.
People looking for sensa-
tional subject-matter or any of
the frills and faldelals of modern
fashions will be disappointed
with this exhibition. They
simply did not interest Mel-
drum. He has spent his whole
life seeking something entirely
different.
The thing not yet understood
about Meldrum’s teaching is
that, with him, the analysis is all-
important, the physical result,
the picture, merely incidental.
He recognised when he first
went to Paris that modern
artists had lost the tradition, the
father-to-son, master-to-appren-
tice system which prevailed for
centuries all over Europe and
produced art, architecture, carv-
ing and sculpture of a standard
to which only a few isolated
individuals since have been able
to approximate.
The pictures of the Old
Masters had Nature’s accent,
and all Meldrum sought to do
was to teach his pupils how to
get that accent. The way the
Old Masters did it was passed
on from one generation to
another. This was done un-
consciously, and what makes
Meldrum a remarkable teacher
is that he recognised it could
only be recaptured consciously
and intellectually.
Meldrum wanted people to
pick up not his accent, but
Nature’s. He was like Socrates
in another realm —he was seek-
ing truth, not glory. That is the
great thing about Meldrum and
why he was so inspiring to two
generations of pupils. His real
significance isn’t likely to be
seen under a hundred years, be-
cause people can’t help review-
ing him in terms of current
fashions so that he appears old-
fashioned, whereas his art is
not concerned with fashions but
with something more universal.
Meldrum is not only a great
Australian artist —he is a great
artist, and will live amongst the
greatest.
M. G. S.
♦ * *
Current Sydney Exhibitions
Anthony Hordern’s Galleries:
Elizabeth Durack’s graceful,
whimsical and sometimes witty
sketches of aboriginal women
and children; and some not-so-
successful murals based on
aboriginal motifs. Also ceramics
by Elaine Keyes in which mainly
“modernist” forms are decorated
with designs of aboriginal
influence.
Macquarie Galleries: Michael
Kmit reducing people and places
to a combination of blue
geometry and Byzantine color-
schemes. Mr. Kmit’s colors are
less grubby than they appeared
a year or two ago, but they still
have a kind of five-o’clock
shadow.
Stage and Music
Heinze and Dermota
While Sydney and Melbourne
have been enjoying the novelty
of an exchange of orchestras,
Brisbane’s subscription concerts
came to a less spectacular though
satisfying close with a pro-
gramme of music mainly Russian
directed by Sir Bernard Heinze.
The Queensland Symphony
Orchestra was successfully re-
seated for the occasion, but even
Sir Bernard’s ornate gestures
could not make Beethoven’s
“Egmont” Overture more than a
quiet game of spotting old
players in new places. After this
the concert settled down to a
fine reading of Rachmaninoff’s
Second Symphony, not pre-
viously heard in these parts.
Rachmaninoff was no tune-
maker like his admired Tschai-
kowsky, but he could build a
powerful work around unlikely
material. This symphony, by
turns brooding, martial and
fiercely passionate, was swept
along by the conductor’s enthu-
siasm, and the orchestra played
the broad sweeping phrases with
a keenness which comes from
meeting the challenge of a new
work.
There was no lack of pleasant
melody in the Theme and Varia-
tions from Tschaikowsky’s Third
Suite. Sir Bernard gave a vigor-
ous unsentimental account of
the music, which made a little
String Serenade by Elgar seem
the essence of English gentleness
by comparison.
Anton Dermota was curiously
shy and half-hearted in “II mio
tesoro” from Mozart’s “Don
Giovanni,” but he showed his
real quality in Lenski’s big aria
from “Eugene Onegin” by
Tschaikowsky.
D. J. M.
♦+♦ ♦♦♦ ♦*-»
“The River Line”
Charles Morgan’s “The River
Line” is an absorbing and com-
plicated play about the influence
of the personality of a dead man
on the minds of a group of his
former associates.
The scene alternates between
an English country-house and
the France of 1943. Eunice
Hangar’s production for Bris-
bane Twelfth Night Theatre
managed to get something of the
French flavor of the piece and
also caught the sense of increased
perceptiveness that comes to
people living under war condi-
tions.
The characters meet in the
English countryside after the war
and find they are all haunted by
the memory of a comrade whom
they had killed in the heat of a
war-time escape from France be-
cause he had all the appearances
of being a spy.
Edmund Burke and Lew
Luton were effective as a retired
English naval commander and
an impetuous American school-
master, escapees together from
France. Gwen Wheeler brought
a mixture of warmth and cool
efficiency to the difficult part of
a woman resistance-leader, and
Donagh MacDonagh had charm
as the dead man (revived in a
flashback sequence), though he
lacked the sensitivity of the
character.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Devil Wear Black”
This, by Ric Throssell, is “a
sort of dramatic caricature —a
reductio ad absurdum of the
more vulnerable conceits of
modern life; of fashion of
poets... .and of Hollywood.”
It’s a brave attempt to provide
us with this salutary dose, and
it is presented for the first time
by the Canberra Repertory
Society with gusto and resource.'
The luscious lovely struts the
stage dressed in one sequin star
and a couple of crabs. (“The
only reason women don’t go
round quite naked is that they
would all be dressed the same.”)
The witch-queen of fashion
brews her monstrous master-
pieces with loathsome gesture
and incantation. The romantic
poet proves to be as phoney as
the rest. We get whiffs of Wild
West trash and a stale meta-
physical whiff of the “Cocktail
Party” of yesteryear.
Perhaps the atmosphere of the
national capital is too remote
from the follies of this age for
Mr. Throssell’s shafts to
register, or too solemn for his
inconsequential technique. The
epigrams bring their laughs, but
the characters never fill-out.
They have powers of speech and
posture, but not of growing or
becoming. What has made them
all so mad and bad? And what
is going to happen to them after
the curtain falls? One cannot
even make a guess.
Visually the production is
first-rate, thanks to inspired
costuming by Jackie Ryan and a
convincing set by Neville Ward.
The actors, one and all, establish
the outlines of their characters
sharply and clearly. Rosalind
Foxcroft’s portrait of a maniac
dress-designer is memorable, but
John Brooks’s caricature would
have gained from lighter strokes.
M. C.
Talkies
“The Lovers of Verona”
This French-made film, one
of those rare works which bring
distinction to the screen, is a
modern tragic love-story touched
with great beauty and under-
standing.
The story, alternating between
Verona and Venice, has a
1 modern Romeo and Juliet, who
first meet as stand-ins to the
principals in the making of a
film version of the Shakspeare
tragedy, and whose parallel fate
to the “ill-starred lovers” comes
not from misunderstanding but
from outside viciousness. The
photography, in black-and-
white, has been used by a
master-craftsman to admirable
effect; the director, Andre
Cayatte (who also collaborated
in the writing of the screenplay),
demonstrates in a dozen ways
that he is a creative artist in his
business; and the acting, right
down to the minor roles, is prac-
tically faultless, with Anouk and
Serge Reggiani as the lovers, and
Pierre Brasseur as the instrument
of their destruction.
One of the film’s achievements
is the portrayal of a family of
whom the daughter is the only
one not touched by decadence
and viciousness. There are the
father, an ex-Fascist Attorney-
General, weak and vain and try-
ing without conviction to appear
bold and strong; his vulgar,
overdressed and flutteringly-
helpless wife ; his depraved mis-
tress flaunting herself in his
house ; an insane ex-party mem-
ber given an empty Tommy-gun
to mow down imaginary enemies
of the regime; and the girl’s
fiancd, who blackmails the
family and whose jealousy leads
to the employment of the
assassins. At Sydney Paris.
♦> *
“Personal Affair”
The various devices used to
create the impression that a
tragedy which never eventuates
is impending are rather too ob-
vious in this British film, the
focal-point of which is the tem-
porary disappearance of a 17-
year-old schoolgirl (Glynis
Johns) who imagines herself to
be desperately in love with her
Latin teacher (Leo Genn). The
jealousy of the dominie’s Ameri-
can wife (Gene Tierney) is
played up overmuch in the direc-
tor’s effort to provide another
motive for a crime.
Despite its shortcomings, the
film is not without some attrac-
tion, due chiefly to some smooth
work by Genn and Miss Johns
and the depiction of the sober
methods of the British police.
At Sydney Embassy.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
BREYLEY, wandering
close to one of Sydney’s
busiest streets, suddenly
heard a clanging, bang-
ing rhythm of scores of
pianos played variously and
independently, s*o m e with
reasonable skill, some atroci-
ously ; rhapsodies of Liszt,
romances of Schumann and
crude metronomic “pops.”
When Breyley had realised it
was music he was hearing and
not traffic noises, he began to
pick out the shrieks of sopranos,
then loud voices raised in every
other key and, on entering the
building, the softer voices of
violins, flutes, clarinets until
they were obliterated by blasts
from trombones and, saxo-
phones.
Into this temple of music
Breyley entered.
Up on Viki’s floor eventually,
the noise of the music-makers
was ten times as jarring, being so
much closer and louder. The
voices of the mentors, too, could
be heard in simple “One, two,
three” ; of helpful “No, not like
that exactly; like this, lah!
lah !” or even in despairing cries
of reproach: “Ach Gott! Ach
Himmel! Never will you learn.”
Narrow corridors ran in all
directions past doors libelled
with exotic names, Madames
and Maestros, Signors and Sig-
nor inas, the wealth, one was
forced to imagine by the titles,
diplomas and qualifications dis-
played, of the musical world of
Europe.
Even Breyley, who knew noth-
ing whatever of this world, had
to struggle against being im-
pressed. What helped him most
to retain his poise was the ob-
vious abnormality of almost
everyone he saw there. There
were squat, dark men with burn-
ing black eyes, having flat-topped
heads with virtually no foreheads
or hair but prodigious noses and
fleshy sensuous mouths. There
were women near enough to the
dark men in appearance to be
suspected of mating with them
for the purpose of propagating
the species. There were blond
men and women with masses of
hair, who talked in excited,
almost identical voices and
waved their hands dramatically.
Or normal - looking people
dressed and behaving eccen-
trically ; or normally dressed
people acting or talking extrava-
gantly. Even the few persons
who looked as if they could have
been met in Breyley’s business
world, who probably owned the
ordinary Australian names Brey-
ley saw on a few of the doors,
he regarded with disfavor, cer-
tain there must be something
wrong with them, or they would
not join in so crazy a profession
among such odd associates.
Since all the more easily
approachable young men- and
women-pupils had disappeared
like scurrying mice as soon as
the lift stopped, Breyley was
obliged to ask for directions
from a formidable lady standing
in a rather predatory manner
outside a door.
“The Elite College of Musical
and Dramatic She articu-
lated the whole of it in a deeply
colorful voice, rolled her large
prominent eyes, while clasping
her hands together in an operatic
pose. “No, no, my friend, I have
never heard of it. I doubt if an
institution with such a fantastic
name exists ; could ever possibly
have existed.”
Breyley looked at the card
Viki had so proudly sent him.
The name was there, just as he
and the woman had said it, with
Viki’s name emblazoned thereon
as principal director. Breyley
began to fear that Viki had
misled him.
“Have you ever heard of Miss
Viki Kraftmann?” he asked,
boring into the woman with his
shrewd businessman’s eyes.
“Viki Kraftmann? Viki Kraft-
mann?” the lady said over and
over again, trying to recall an
obscure person who owned a
name like that. “Tell me, did you
intend to take singing instruction
from her ?”
“Oh, no,” Breyley said, deeply
injured. “I just want to see her
on business.”
The woman nodded her head
knowingly.
“That’s what you might think
now. But you’ll be running a
terrible risk of taking a course
of singing-lessons if you go to
see her.”
Breyley’s face lit up with
pleasure. “Salesmanship! ”
shouted his soul somewhere deep
within him, with the most fer-
vent admiration.
“So you do know her quite
well, after all,” he accused the
deceitful lady. “Why didn’t you
tell me so straight away and save
my time?”
“Why should I blow her trum-
pet?” the lady demanded, pat-
ting her high mop of blonde
hair affectedly. “I’m quite cer-
tain she never blows mine.”
Breyley, for all his hurry,
turned to her earnestly :
“Tell me,” he said with that
deception-inviting candor of a
straight business inquiry ; “how
would you say that she is getting
on with her new academy?
Would you say it is a success?”
The lady laughed ; a defensive
contralto.
“Don’t ask me about that!
How would / know? All I can
say is that I’ve never noticed
hordes of pupils crowding to her
doors the way she says they do
in her radio advertisements.”
She melted from his presence
by opening the door she had
been leaning against, then shut-
ting it hard in his face. Breyley
read her name on it. “Jealous
cat, Madame Flaubert,” he said
aloud.
Viki’s place had a great gilded
noticeboard which covered most
of the wall beside it. Un-
doubtedly, Breyley decided, it
gave “confidence”; another of
his hallowed words. Then the
names of her two star teachers,
with their records of achieve-
ment blazing after them like the
shining trails of meteors. One
with the reassuring native name
otf Alphonse Stanley, the other
an exotic Signorina Marcello,
Catering for all tastes, Breyley
thought approvingly, with a
“Maestro” in front of Stanley’s
name in case he should sound
just a bit too commonplace,
Then a list, of imposing length,
of the lesser teachers ; none with
less than a Dip. Mus. after their
names, some with a great deal
more. Finally Viki’s name, un-
adorned, chaste and serene, dig-
nified as a company-director’s.
Breyley knocked on the door.
It opened with such celerity
that he was sucked instantly into
a reception-room. A smiling
/young woman, beautifully
drilled, was at his service.
The way she brought him to
a chair, took away his hat, asked
him his name and business was
a delicious entertainment in
speech and movement. He
learned later that she was taking
a course of dramatic art in lieu
of wages, and getting in all the
practice she could while she
worked. Unlike the big busi-
nessman’s receptionist, whose
function, Breyley knew, was
mainly to prevent callers reach-
ing her employer, this girl
speeded his entry to Viki’s office,
while giving him the impression
that no one else was ever
accorded this honor.
Viki’s office was more like a
lounge-room, with deep, chintzy
armchairs for people to rest in
and a divan in case she, or some-
one else, felt the need to lie right
down. A soft carpet on the
floor, prints of popular modern
paintings on the walls and small
plaster busts of Beethoven, Wag-
ner, Mozart and Verdi stuck in
suitable places. Her desk was
what is called in furniture-shops
a ladies’ bureau, at which pros-
pective pupils would be more
likely to imagine her writing
invitations to afternoon - teas
than hurry-up demands for over-
due fees.
Viki sprang up delighted to
see Breyley.
“How lovely to see you,” she
exclaimed, using the exaggerated
inflections of the premises. She
squeezed his hand and patted his
arm, “How wonderful of you
to come down specially to help
me with the organising of my
new academy!”
“As a matter of fact,” said
Breyley, “I came down . . .”
But there he was interrupted
by Viki turning her back on him
to call out :
“Miss Blackstone! Mrs. Haw-
thorn! Vera!” and a string of
other names,
Next he was submerged in a
swirl of introductions. All of
the women and the couple of
men, it appeared to Breyley,
were excessively vital to Viki’s
organisation,
“I’d be just lost without her” ;
“He knows more about music
than ten encyclopaedias”; or
“She holds things together for
me.”
Among all these geniuses
Breyley was pleased enough to
find that he was “That wonder-
ful accountant man I’ve been
teWng you all so much about;
with all the priceless ideas about
costs, and advertising, and
money and that sort of thing.
The man I always consult before
1 plan any big things. The man
1 really rely on most of all!”
The artistic colossi murmured
respectful greetings. Viki was
suddenly shaken by a new wave
of excitement.
“Gregory, you must meet
him.”
She turned to the women and
demanded in an awed whisper
“Do you know what room he is
in now? The main audition-
room? Right. Come along,
Gregory.”
She led him off by the arm,
and opened a door behind which
they could hear a nervous
soprano voice singing to a piano.
Breyley had guessed by now
that the personage was Viki’s
star teacher; yet he was sur-
prised at the apologetic manner
in which she entered the room ;
at the way the man nodded her
wordlessly to a couch without
interrupting his occupations of
the moment; at the way in
which the man completely
ignored him.
The occupations of Maestro
Alphonse Stanley were hearing
a young girl sing, and refresh-
ing himself with red-black
cherries and blood-red wine. The
girl at the piano seemed to know
by some kind of intuition when
to stop for the maestro to criti-
cise. As soon as he spoke Brey-
ley realised that he was not an
Australian at all, but an Eng-
lishman ; and this knowledge,
added to what he’d read on the
noticeboard of the man’s inter-
national career as a singer,
stirred Breyley to a typically
Australian resentment.
He began an inventory of the
man’s objectionable features: he
was rude to Viki; Viki admired
him extravagantly ; he was being
deliberately cruel to the singer.
The young soprano’s frightened
eyes continually darted round to
him while she sang, and he, in
a manner that Breyley thought
rather theatrical, if not quite
infantile, allowed her to see him
flinch every time she uttered a
note of a quality he objected to.
Sometimes, with a stagey ges-
ture and sudden averting of his
face, he pretended to be ward-
ing off a blow.
“What is that you are singing,
my child?” he asked her.
The girl hesitated, knowing
very well that it must be familiar
to him.
“I’m sorry if I’m singing it so
badly, Maestro,” she said with a
trembling voice, using a com-
bination of adroitness and
apparent humility before her
betters which was likely to be a
great asset in the profession. “I
must be awful if you can’t
recognise ‘Caro Nome.’ ”
“So that was ‘Caro Nome’!”
said Stanley. He had a mag-
nificent speaking-voice, which
seemed to thrill the girl even
while his sarcasm bit her. When
he was speaking his face lost its
look of sagging decadence, be-
coming both animated and re-
juvenated. He was a big man,
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in previous instalments: —
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina.
Breyley. —Town accountant ;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like oTher graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay.
Alec. — Son; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
{“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney, where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Stefanik. —A New Australian
dealer in “Old Masters,” has
sued Alec for paintings
destroyed in a car-collision.
Kraftmann has locked Alec and
Stefanik in the silo to settle the
matter, and they have agreed that
Stefanik shall have free lodg-
ings on the property and
materials supplied until he has
painted some more “Old
Masters.”
Breyley has prevailed upon
Rhoda, who thinks he wants to
marry her, to bring the account-
books of her father’s family-
company to his lodgings. Brey-
ley then tells Kraftmann that he
has been withholding the divi-
dends of the rest of the family,
and threatens him with disclo-
sure. Rhoda asks Breyley for
the return of her father’s
account-books. His refusal, fol-
lowed by news of his departure
for Sydney, obviously to seek
Viki’s help in getting control of
the company, throws all of the
family but the oblivious Kraft-
mann into consternation.


too, though now more than a
trifle paunchy, and it was easy
to imagine him dominating and
enthralling huge audiences in the
past. Even Breyley had to ad-
mit that, given the proper train-
ing and experience, he could
have swayed angry meetings of
hostile shareholders and com-
pelled them to do what he
wanted.
“Sing something different, my
child,” the maestro commanded.
“Sing, shall we say, ‘Home
Sweet Home.’ Now!” he added
sharply, seeing her face flush
with vexation. “There is noth-
ing invidious about that request.
I am told by so many of her
overweening admirers in this
country that your revered
Madame Melba frequently sang
those two items on the one
programme.”
While he listened to “Home
Sweet Home” he ate the cherries
two at a time, alternating them
with sips of burgundy. He had
a disillusioned and rather dis-
gusted expression on his face, as
if he knew very well that the
cherries would give him indiges-
tion and the wine a headache.
Yet he showed no indication of
stopping ; in fact, it transpired
that it was part <jf the accom-
panist’s duties to refill his glass
and his bowl of cherries in the
intervals while he lectured the
singers.
“Enough,” he said, a split-
second after the piano had clair-
voyantly stopped for him. “Have
you ever practised your scales,
child? Yes? Yes! But not
enough. Between this and the
next time you are audacious
enough to come before me —
say, in six months’ time —prac-
tise nothing but your scales,”
The two girls were waved out
of the room, and the maestro
lay back to mop at his exhausted
head. Then he worked himself
into a normal sitting position,
making delicate fanning move-
ments from his wrists, and
gasping.
“Air! Air!” he demanded.
“In a country like this, which
has probably more cubic yards
of air per head of population
than any other in the world, how
is it that none of it is ever
allowed to enter any of the
buildings?”
He turned to Breyley as if he
had been specifically brought
into' the place to answer this
question. But Breyley would
not answer, because he had not
been introduced; taking the
opportunity to even the score
with several Englishmen who
had treated him in the same
manner.
“This is Mr. Breyley, my
financial adviser, and I very
dearly hope that I can somehow
persuade him to become our
business-manager.”
Maestro Alphonse Stanley
looked Breyley over with dis-
taste which may have had its
roots in past unpleasant experi-
ences of business-managers ; or
may have been a more acutely
personal objection to Viki’s hope
of “persuading Breyley some-
how.” Then he made a keen
analysis of Breyley’s appear-
ance, and decided that he was
quite beyond the scope of Viki’s
favors. He put a limp hand into
Breyley’s outstretched one.
“I’ll tell you,” he said, becom-
ing interested, “what you’ll have
to concentrate on. The build-
ing. No air” —he waved his
hands through it to show that
there wasn’t any —“and in win-
ter I’m sure it will be cold as a
tomb. Then the washrooms and
conveniences! ”
“But we don’t own the build-
ing,” Breyley objected, begin-
ning to be involved through his
sheer knowledgeability.
“Air-conditioning throughout
is a first essential if you don’t
want me simply to expire. Then
the water? What makes it red?
And as thick as Irish-stew?”
“I expect it’s rusty pipes,”
Breyley said ; right again, with-
out needing to be told by any-
body.
The maestro made a lordly
gesture.
“Then do away with them.
Put in some new ones that will
spare me the sight of this pol-
luted water. I couldn’t think of
washing my hands in it; and as
for using the closet... If I have
to I turn my back and rush out
so as not to see that bloodstained
gushing so suggestive of mur-
hered bodies thrown into the
drains.”
Breyley fidgeted uncomfort-
ably. He’d never heard a man
talk about such intimate things
before a woman. He felt, too,
that it was time he asserted him-
self; particularly as Viki had
implied that he had a certain
responsibility and authority in
the business. So he put in
sternly;
“I said before that we don’t
own the building, and as for
persuading the owners to
modernise so old a place, I don’t
see much chance of success.”
“It has to be done,” the
maestro said with a regal gesture.
This annoyed Breyley very
much; and casting about des-
perately he recalled a little plas-
tic desk-motto a Rotaria'n friend
had given him ; a text which
he had always regarded with
extreme cynicism. Now it
occurred to him that if it in-
fluenced the tough estate-agent
donor it might work with
Stanley,
“Let me ask you a few ques-
tions,” he said formally. “I saw
the way you handled that girl,
and I said to myself: ‘She is his
customer, so why does he treat
her like that? Why doesn’t he
use the Rotary Test? One: Is
it the truth ? Two: Is it fair to
all concerned ? Three: Will it
build goodwill and better friend-
ships? Four: Will it be bene-
ficial to dll concerned?’”
Before he finished it Stanley
was smiling at him in an offen-
sively patronising way. Even
Viki had screwed round to stare
at him as if he’d suddenly started
quoting the Ten Commandments
or the Sermon on the Mount.
“Charming, ingenuous senti-
“Enough,” he said, a split-second after the piano had clairvoyantly stopped for him. “Have you ever practised your scales, child?”
ments, my friend,” Stanley said,
waving a cherry at him by the
stem, “but I’m sure, just as un-
suitable for my world as it is for
the tigerish world of business,
That girl for whom you feel
such unnecessary and undeserved
sympathy thought she could be-
come a shining star in the world
of music in six easy lessons. Now
she knows that she can’t. That’s
some good I’ve done her.
“Another thing, she’s all
m ixed up inside with hating me
and admiring me, which is just
the right condition to make her
work her guts out in the next
six months to prove to me that
she can sing. And another good
thing, the best of all, is that she
isn’t going to bother me with
wanting me to hear her sing for
quite a while.”
He looked, under his half-
closed eyelids, at Breyley, in a
manner both insolent and con-
ceited.
“He’s quite right,” Viki
chipped in brightly. “It does
build goodwill, and benefits all
concerned in the long run, so
you’re both right. Now, Gregory,
you come along with me. I
want you to meet the signorina.”
Stanley leaned forward and
made a clutching movement in
Viki’s direction.
“A moment, my beautiful,” he
said, his voice deliberately husky.
“What will you be doing to-
night?”
It was obvious from the des-
perate look on his face that he
didn’t mean the early part of the
evening.
Breyley said brusquely;
“She’s going to talk over a
business proposition with me as
soon as I can get her away
from work.”
Stanley stared fiercely at Brey-
ley as if there were some subtle
innuendo in this innocent re-
mark. But Viki took Breyley by
the arm and got him out of the
door with the implication that
it was only her social adroitness
which had prevented the two
men coming to blows.
“The signorina is marvellous,
too,” she said to Breyley, “She
hears all the men. She’s ex-
tremely attractive and has a
dazzling personality.”
A certain aridity had crept
into her voice, leading the astute
Breyley to believe that this was
a professional rather than a per-
sonal opinion of the lady.
“I might as well tell you, be-
cause you’ll hear it soon enough ;
all Sydney says the maestro has
been living with her off and on
for years. They say that is why
he has that exhausted appear-
ance (you’ll know what they
mean when you see her), but I’ve
got my own opinion about that.”
She giggled.
“In fact / have reason to be-
lieve that he likes me a lot more
than her.”
Breyley glanced at her side-
ways; a little apprehensive of
this passionate world he’d
stepped into.
Milk and honey were under
the signorina’s tongue. “Caris-
sima,” she called Viki with a
caressing sound; and she flat-
tered Breyley excessively even
before Viki told her what a
wonderful fellow he was. She
accorded him a long, velvety,
blood - pressure - raising smile.
“Thy lips are as a pomegranate,”
came leaping into his mind from
his long-forgotten Sunday-school
days, when he and his friends
spent tedious afternoons study-
ing the Song of Solomon. Teeth
like freshly shorn sheep, eyes
like the fishpools in Heshbon,
breasts like clusters of grapes,
thighs like jewels, the work of
the hands of a cunning work-
man ; something about the navel
he’d forgotten, but he was sure
it fitted; belly like a heap of
wheat set about with lilies; and
spices with frankincense ...
They did not spend nearly as
much time with the signorina as
with the maestro. For one
thing, she would not work while
they were there, though a gaunt
young man stared at her like a
starving dog; and Viki seemed
to find it hard to match the
words and gestures of goodwill
showered upon her ; nor did she
seem to appreciate Breyley’s
meditative rapture.
“I can’t talk to you properly
about anything, Gregory,” she
told him on the way back to
her office, “until after we close
up here, and that’s late, because
so many office-girls come for a
lesson after hours. But I do
want to have such a long talk
with you ; and I can’t think of
a comfortable place we could
meet in the city.”
“There’s my hotel,” Breyley
suggested, with a flutter round
the heart at his gallantry.
Viki stopped him and gazed
into his face with wide, innocent
eyes.
“I’ll tell you what. Come
across to my flat about ten-
o’clock tonight.”
She squeezed his hand and
disappeared through the door.
Breyley dawdled down the
stairs to sort himself out before
facing the city.
CHAPTER XV
TP HE purpose of Breyley s sud-
A den plane trip to Sydney was
immediately apparent to Alec,
Stefanik and Johnny, since they
had no feminine intuitions,
sympathies or emotions to mis-
guide them. They discussed it
in Alec’s room that night.
“We might get at Viki,” Alec
suggested. “I d even make a
special trip to Sydney for it; to
show her what a louse she’d be
to play along with Breyley.”
“A ruddy waste of time is all
that would be,” said Johnny,
seeing things in their blackest
aspect.
Stefanik looked from one to
the other in turn, vastly in-
terested. He still appeared to
take the affair no more seriously
than the radio serials to which
the family listened each night;
dramas he was in the habit of
criticising and ridiculing in a
manner they thought highly
amusing and startlingly sophisti-
cated.
“Neither of you has the right
idea,” he said. “We should strike
boldly at the villain himself.”
“Not much chance while he’s
in Sydney,” Johnny said
morosely.
“Then lure him back here,
Stefanik suggested brightly, wav-
ing his hands about to show that
enterprise and action were what
was needed. “Let Miss Rhoda
write him a letter telling him
that she loves him and will do
anything he asks.’’
Johnny recoiled from the sug-
gestion.
“She wouldn’t write to him
like that to save the whole
world.” ....
Stefanik sustained his smile.
“Better and better ideas come
to me. We can forge a note
using the family typewriter and
notepaper; then later Miss
Rhoda can deny that she wrote
it. I, with my artist s skill, will
sign it most convincingly,
Alec, who had been frowning
in perplexity, grew interested m
Stefanik s suggestions, but
remained sceptical.
Just say he did come back.
What then?”
Stefanik assumed a seriousness
that was as amusing as his usual
lightheartedness. His eyes
gleamed as he wrung his brows
in thought,
“In the note we would tell him
that the whole family is become
resigned to Fate and him taking
control ; and that they are pru-
pared to talk over with him the
matter in a peaceful and fnend-
hke manner—that part is neces-
sary to assure us that he will
come right out here to the
farm.
Johnny struck a pose he con-
sidered suggestive of mature and
balanced judgment and nodded
his head approvingly.
“Then when we get him out
here—what then?” He clenched
his hands and watched the
muscles writhe in his lean, bare
arms
o Continued on page J 4)


Fast Flights to
NORTH AMERICA
w
ENROUTE TO
UNITED KINGDOM
Only Canadian Pacific flies Fi[i-
Honolulu non-stop. Past flight
times to Hawaii, via Auckland.
Only Canadian Pacific offers
hours stopover at Waikiki Beach
resort hotel
VANCOUVER
cl
HAWAI
ft
FIJI
AUCKLAND
mm*
The only Super DC-6B service ...
Your choice of luxury
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
@orliicess * service.
♦ TOURIST
ASK UTTPOTSI STEAM S*Hf» CO. (GENERAt. AGENTS),
* YOtJR TRAVfii AGENT, OR
Canadian (PadUc
AIRLINES 9
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
How to improve your
memory
What’s the best way to memor-
ize? What facts are hardest to
recall; why won’t concentrat-
ing help you recollect them?
Does memory decline with age?
November Reader’s Digest
brings you latest psychological
findings (which may upset your
preconceived notions) and
three simple suggestions on
how to sharpen your memory.
Get November Reader’s
Digest today: it’s packed with
articles of lasting interest, con-
densed from leading magazines
and current books, including;
“TODAY is your future,” “Gas
turbine car of the future?”
and “How to land the job you
want.” November Reader’s
Digest on sale now 1/6, all
newsagents and bookstalls.
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion o! their cost. The
■'National" Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLGSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
BulLx entirely In Australia Sr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Amt.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT IMURAN CES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: TEONAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; V. Duesbury ’ DeputV
Chairman: Alfred S. White; A. 0. Parker.
MOULTON, Managing Director.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States•
assimilation
by J.m.Rosen
THE Swan in Western Aus-
tralia is a pleasant, slow
and lazy stream, and the
city on her banks still
weaves out the pattern of its life
in a relatively unhurried calm,
although the tempo of life novtf
is more rapid than it was in the
time of which I write, which was
just before the war.
As yet, there are still no
electric-trains to bind the
metropolis into a busy web of
dark tunnels ; and when a train
leaves the central station there is
a great spewing of white cloud
over the railway-bridge to mark
its going.
The train to Carmidale passes
for a good three-quarters of an
hour through flat country
sparsely dotted with houses and
chicken-farms until jerkily and
haltingly it begins the climb
through foothills laid out in a
mosaic of vineyards and orange-
groves. Halfway up the Darling
scarp it lumbers around a bend,
discloses the premises of
Blanowski’s Animal Foods, and
before the startled passenger has
had time to recover from the
shock delivers him with a great
deal of flurry and puffing at
Carmidale station.
The premises of Blanowski’s
Animal Foods is the most
memorable building in Carmi-
dale. One does not forget any
building which has one wall
painted yellow, with ten-foot
letters in purple, and another
similarly decorated with lime-
green lettering on a bright-red
ground. New passengers tend
to shudder, but regular
passengers to Carmidale take
Blanowski’s advertisement for
granted.
But was a time when it was
the talk of the town, and
residents of Carmidale went to
bed wondering what legend the
walls would bear in the morning.
“It’s as good as Dad and
Dave,” the train-passengers used
to say as they craned their necks
to see the next instalment.
TT all started with Mr.
-*■ Blanowski’s accent, Mr.
Blanowski came from troubled
central Europe, with very little
money and even less knowledge
of English. In Carmidale, of all
places, he set about acquiring
both, very slowly and very
painfully.
He took over a pinched and
starving poultry-run and began to
work on it from daylight to
dark, and the residents of
Carmidale showed him no overt
ill-will until it became obvious
that he was actually making
money from chickens.
Nobody had made money in
Carmidale for years; and the
residents of Carmidale were
morally certain that if Mr.
Blanowski made money it was
only because he was a foreigner
indulging in sharp practices. To
their minds, all foreigners
indulged in sharp practices, lived
off the smell of greasy rags and
undersold decent honest people
and took away their livelihood.
It must be remembered that
this was before the war, before
mass-migration and before the
terra New Australian had even
been heard of. Carmidale nowa-
days is doubtless much more
open-hearted.
Therefore, when Stan Green,
the local painter and signwriter,
was approached by Mr.
Blanowski to rent his premises in
Main-street, the letting was done
with very bad grace. Mr. Blan-
owski did not expect Stan Green
to be friendly. The faces he saw
in the street these days were
closed faces, like the faces he had
known most of his life. Stan
Green went about for days mut-
tering at a man’s cursed bad luck
having to let his place to Dagoes,
All foreigners were Dagoes to
Stan Green. He failed to men-
tion that he had asked and got
almost double the former rent.
Unwillingly, too, Stan Green
accepted Mr. Blanowski’s first
commission for painting and
signwriting. Mr. Blanowski had
decided to go in for the manu-
facture of poultry-food. The
town-people thought that this
was rather a good joke. So the
crazy foreigner had learnt so
much about chickens that he was
now going to invent a new food
for them? They did not know
that it was the pathetic salvage
of Mr. Blanowski’s youthful
hopes of a career in science.
MR. BLANOWSKI wanted
Stan Green to paint the
whole side of the building which
could be seen from the train-
line a vivid yellow.
Then he wanted him to paint
a large picture of a healthy,
crowing cockerel silhouetted in
deep purple against the yellow
background, and beneath the
picture a legend:
Something to Crow About —
Blanowski’s Poultry Food.
Unfortunately the instructions
he gave were verbal; and Stan
Green understood him to say
“Something to Grow About.”
“Grow?” said Stan Green.
“Don’t you mean Crow ?”
“That’s right, Mr. Green,”
said Blanowski. “Something to
Grow About.”
Stan Green tried again. “I
think it should be Crow.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Blanowski.
“Grow! Right across the wall
you paint it in yellow and purple.
And one day I paint the other
wall red and green. Make them
all look, yes?”
Stan Green shrugged his
shoulders. “0.K.,” he said.
“Have it your own way.” And
he proceeded to paint in purple
letters ten-feet high:
Something to Grow About —
Blanowski’s Poultry Food.
“Looks damn’ silly to me,” he
said when he had finished, “but
there it is.”
He went home to his wife.
Mr. Blanowski was very
annoyed. His English was
adequate to convey his opinion
of Stan Green and his stupidity
in unambiguous terms.
Stan Green maintained that
all he had done was to
follow Mr. Blanowski’s instruc-
tions explicitly. Furthermore,
stung by Mr. Blanowski’s
indelicate reflections on his
intellect and on the intellect of
all his masculine forebears, not
to mention the virtue of his
feminine relatives, he stubbornly
refused to alter the offending
letter or ever to lay paint on
Mr. Blanowski’s premises again.
A ND there' the matter stood.
Stan Green, having received
payment in advance, kept his
word and refused to alter his
handiwork.
Mr. Blanowski began to haunt
legal offices, and almost every
day he wrote Stan Green a long,
indignant and rather comical
letter which Stan Green showed
to all and sundry. Meanwhile
passengers from districts for
miles around passed through
Carmidale, saw the new sign and
talked about it. They even began
to buy the poultry-food.
Mr. Blanowski resigned him-
self to his mistake. His business
began to prosper. Stan Green
had fewer and fewer amused and
sympathetic listeners. The
insults, however, still rankled,
and Stan Green had much
enjoyed his brief limelight.
“I’ll show that Dago,” he
began to swagger. “I’ll give him
something to growl about. I’ll
give you all the biggest laugh
you’ve had in years! ”
Mr. Blanowski annoyed him
further by constantly demanding
repairs to his premises. Each
time they met the feud between
them grew worse.
“I’ll give you something to
growl about!” threatened the
painter. “You see!”
And he did. One Saturday
when Mr, Blanowski was away
Stan Green, considerably in
liquor, got out his ladder and
altered the sign.
The startled train-passengers
going to work in the city on
Monday morning read the new
version:
Something to Growl About —
Blanowski’s Poultry Food.
There were more threatening
letters, and more insults. Stan
Green was adamant. If Mr.
Blanowski didn’t like it, he could
go elsewhere. It was Green’s
building, and he wasn’t fussy
about renewing the lease anyway.
Mr. Blanowski gave up the
struggle. What did it matter?
All places rejected him—
Kaplitz or Carmidale, what did
it matter? He was a shadow
without resting-place, and no real
happening could touch him. To
take his mind off things he
invented a new formula for dog-
biscuits.
DOG-BISCUITS were also a
success. The painter’s little
joke grew stale.
Mr. Blanowski’s business
began to offer employment for
some of Carmidale’s young folk
who would otherwise have had
to travel to the city for work.
Nobody accepted Mr. Blanowski,
and he had no friends. But,
apart from Stan Green, he had
no real enemies.
The sign remained untouched.
People saw it from the train-
window ; and strangers who had
not heard the story shuddered at
the colors and wondered at the
wording.
Mr. Blanowski began to
experiment with new and better
dog-biscuits containing vitamins.
A mile and a half out of Carmi-
dale there was a dog-fancier,
and every Saturday Mr.
Blanowski walked over to see
the dogs who were being tried
out on the experimental samples.
He walked slowly and
abstractedly, his long gaberdine
raincoat, which he wore in all
weathers, flapping sadly about
his legs. Sometimes a Carmidale
lad would ride past on a bicycle,
calling rude names over his
shoulder. Mr. Blanowski would
feel very lonely.
One hot Saturday, when the
breeze was like a breath from a
furnace, Mr. Blanowski set off
on his weekly pilgrimage. The
scrub for miles around was like
tinder, but the dog-fancier had
delayed burning-off.
Mr. Blanowski saw the fire
racing towards the dog-fancier’s
property and started to run.
When he got there the yard was
already full of smoke, and the
dog-fancier was running to the
furthest kennels as flames
snickered across dry grass
towards them.
Mr. Blanowski was aware only
of a great heat and noise as he
struggled with the catches of a
cage where some more dogs were
threatened by the fire. A woman
was screaming ; and hundreds of
dogs seemed to be barking about
him. He had returned for the
last of the dogs when the woman
caught his arm wildly.
“The baby,” she shouted. “It
was in the shed playing with the
puppies.”
The woman was pointing and
he saw the shed, surrounded by
flames. Mr. Blanowski, his
gaberdine still flapping sadly,
ran for the door. Somewhere
inside he found a limp white
bundle, and gathering it up in
the loose folds of his raincoat
he fought his way out through
the doorway.
Mr. Blanowski had become a
hero. He had saved the baby,
and burnt himself so badly in
the process that he had to spend
two months in hospital. The
employees of Blanowski's
Animal Foods rallied together
and got out the orders. There
was even some talk of a testi-
monial, but nobody could decide
upon the form which it should
take.
CJTAN GREEN felt that fate
had dealt him a dirty trick.
The way people began to talk
of his bit of innocent fun with
the signwriting, you’d have
thought he was a criminal, when
only yesterday they’d all been in
it with him.
Stan liked people to think he
was a good fellow; he also liked
the limelight, but not this kind.
The way things were going, the
painter over at Orange Vale
would get the little bit of work
that there was around. There
was only one thing to do and
that was the decent thing.
Besides, with all this talk of a
testimonial, the town might even
raise a benefit or something and
pay him for his trouble.
So, without a word to anyone,
Stan Green got out his ladder
again. It would have been simple
to paint out the tail of the letter
“G” and make Grow into Crow,
but Stan Green felt that that
would have been admitting
defeat. He knew the value of
publicity and he liked a grand
gesture. The townspeople
gathered around, and watched
with interest as instead of paint-
ing out the tail of the letter “G”
he painted out the purple rooster.
Stan Green took his time. For
the first day that was all he did.
The next day Stan Green
removed the words “Blanowski’s
Poultry Food,” and painted the
opposing wall a vivid red. He
was beginning to enjoy the
mystification.
On the following day he
painted another rooster, in vivid
chartreuse, on the red wall.
Then he went home..
Then under the chartreuse
rooster he painted the words
“Something to Crow About,
Blanowski’s Poultry Food,” just
as Mr. Blanowski had ordered in
the first place.
o Continued on page 34)


Felt & Textiles of Australia Limited
Statement by the Chairman — Mr. R. J. WEBSTER
RELATING TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1954
FINANCIAL:
In presenting the Annual Report
and Accounts for the year ended 30th
June, 1954, some alteration has been
made in the form of presentation and
in the detailed infonnation supplied.
The object of this is to give Share-
holders as complete a picture as prac-
ticable of the Company’s operations
and at the same time give greater
detail in a form in which it can be
readily assimilated. Photographs of
some of the Organisation’s principal
factories in Australia have been
included as a matter of interest. ■
The Net Profit of the Company and
its Subsidiaries for the year ended
30th June, 1954, after providing for
taxation and after excluding the
interest of minority Shareholders, was
£702,694. The provision for taxation
was reduced by approximately
£97,000 in respect of trading losses
incurred try certain Subsidiaries in
previous years, these losses having,
been set off against their current year’s
profits before calculating the provision
for taxation. On the other hand,
some non-recurring costs were
incurred during the year in the re-
organisation of certain manufacturing
divisions of the Company, the total of
which exceeds the abovementioned
taxation reduction. The overall effect
is that the net profit of £702,694 may
be regarded as a proper reflection of
the result of the normal operations of
the Organisation during the year.
In a recent judgment of the High
Court of Australia, it was held that
the cost of Accrued Sick and Annual
Leave Pay was not deductible for
taxation purposes and accordingly,
the Company and its Subsidiaries in
Australia have made provision for
additional tax totalling £23,629 in
respect of accruements charged against
past years’ profits. As this item
relates entirely to the profits of pre-
vious years, it has been deducted from
the opening balance standing to the
credit of the Consolidated Profit and
Loss Statement as at Ist July, 1953.
As and when actual payments are
incurred for Sick and Annual Leave
Pay they will, of course, be charged
against the accrued provision and
claimed as a taxation deduction.
A further item affecting the
accumulated profits to which some
reference should be made is Long
Service Leave, which has been opera-
tive in New South Wales since . Ist
July, 1951, is now operative in Vic-
toria, and may in future become Aus-
tralia-wide. All costs actually incurred
under this heading to date have been
written off but no provision has as
yet been made for the future. The
Board decided during the year that
the whole matter of Long Service
Leave liability, together with the
Company’s existing Superannuation
Scheme, should be fully investigated
in order to ensure that any necessary
provisions are made to the best advan-
tage of both the Company and its
employees and in such a way as will
safeguard the Company’s taxation
position. The investigation is still
proceeding and, in due course, when
the Company’s liability has been pro-
perly established, provision for it can
be made by making an appropriation
out of accumulated profits.
Stocks:
The Consolidated Stocks of
£6,616,696 disclose an increase of
approximately 8.5% over the corre-
sponding figures at 30th June, 1953,
but this increase is more than
accounted for by the increased turn-
over. The annual stock turnover
rate during the year was 4.5 times
as compared with 4 times in the
preceding year. When it is considered
that wool requirements must be pur-
chased during the Celling season to
cover a full year’s requirement, this
average rate of turnover gives a clear
indication that both the quantity and
quality of the Company’s stocks are
sound in relation to the volume of
business done.
The Stocks at 30th June, 1954,
included wool and wool tops to
a total value of £1,863,994, as
compared with £1,514,321 at 30th
June, 1953. With the opening of the
1954/55 wool season, values of the
finer wools have shown a weakening
tendency. So far as the Company’s
stocks are concerned, however, by the
time the first wool sales were held a
great part of the June stocks had been
sold and any diminution in market
values of the unsold residue was not
of sufficient magnitude to warrant
concern.
Bank Overdraft:
Bank Overdrafts showed a satis-
factory decrease of £326,061 despite
the increase in Stocks. The Bank
position of the Organisation is now
stronger than it has been for some
years and the level of overdrafts is
commensurate with a sound basis of
economical financing of the Com-
pany’s operations.
Financial Reorganisation:
I mentioned in my Statement of
last- year that at an appropriate time
the Board would review the financial
structure of the Company as part of
the general programme of reorganisa-
tion.
This review was duly made and, as
already announced, it was decided that
generally speaking, the wholly-owned
Subsidiaries in Australia should be
amalgamated with the Parent Com-
pany. The amalgamation became
effective as from Ist July, 1954, for
most Subsidiaries, but it may take two
to three years before every detail is
completed. The results will be
immediate as the Parent Company
has acquired as at Ist July, 1954, the
businesses of the majority of the
Subsidiaries and is operating them
under the same names as before, but
as branches of its own undertaking
instead of as individual Subsidiary
Companies. This financial re-organ-
isation will make a significant con-
tribution to the simplification of the
financial and administrative structure
of the Company and its overall taxa-
tion position.
DIRECTORS AND
PERSONNEL:
Directors:
As you are aware, the death of the
late Managing Director, Mr. C.
Rhodes-Smith, occurred in December,
1953, shortly after the last General
Meeting. The late Mr. Rhodes-Smith
was appointed Managing Director in
June, 1947, and during his term of
office the Company underwent great
expansion, shareholders’, funds having
increased from £2,814,686 as at 30th
June, 1947, to £9,228,578 as at 30th
June, 1953. I mention this expansion
to indicate the great strain imposed
upon him, particularly over his last
two years of office.
Following upon the death of Mr.
Rhodes-Smith, Mr. H. W. Rowden,
who had been a member of the Board
since 1946, was appointed Managing
Director of the Company. Mr.
Rowden has been Managing Director
of Felt & Textiles of New Zealand
Ltd. from its inception, and prior to
his appointment as Managing Director
of this Company, had acted in that
capacity during the late Mr. Rhodes-
Smith’s last overseas visit and during
his illness. He has had considerable
experience in the affairs and back-
ground of the Company and is well
qualified to carry his additional
responsibilities.
Lieut.-General Sir Frank Berryman
was later appointed to fill the casual
vacancy on the Board.
Personnel:
During the year, a Personnel
Department was established to handle
the many problems arising from the
employment of some 5,700 employees
in Australia and steps are being taken
to establish a similar department in
New Zealand. In conjunction with
our Management Consultants, the
Personnel Department has established
an executive structure for our
Organisation with appropriate speci-
fication of the duties, responsibilities
and authorities attaching to each
executive position. A survey has
been made of the calibre of individual
members of the executive staff with
a view of assessing their potential for
the future and of determining the
needs for training for future pro-
motion. Arising from this survey, an
executive development programme,
which will have a great bearing on
the future of your Company, has been
planned. This programme shcpuld
ensure that a supply of trained
executives and managers is available,
when required, from within the
Organisation.
Methods Improvement:
In my last Statement, I referred to
the engagement of Management Con-
sultants, to assist the Board with its
policy of reorganisation. These
Consultants are surveying the
efficiency of the various manufacturing
units with a view of improving their
productivity and ensuring that the
most modem and economical
techniques are employed. This
policy is being implemented in con-
junction with the development of the
Personnel policy so that as improved
techniques are introduced, the trained
staff necessary to carry them out and
ensure their continuance will be
available. Selected members of the
Company’s staff are being trained in
Methods Engineering and are working
with our Management Consultants in
the survey of the individual units. The
intention is that, as our own trained
staff becomes competent to do so,
it will progressively take over the
detailed work with the Consultants’
assistance and guidance so that over
a period of the next few years, the
Methods Engineering -function be-
comes an integral part of the Com-
pany’s management control.
WOOL DIVISION:
This division conducts the wool
buying, wool sorting and wool pro-
cessing sections of the organisation
in Australia, but operates basically
to provide our own wool requirements
for manufacturing in Australia.
Trading results were satisfactory on
the whole although difficult overseas
trading conditions were experienced
during the year, due, in the main, to
the level of processing costs in
Australia.
At the present time, the scouring
and carbonising plants in Victoria
and New South Wales are operating
satisfactorily on a two-shift basis, but
in South Australia only one shift is
being worked. On present indications,
the Division expects to continue to
show satisfactory returns, and every
effort is being made to develop and
extend our overseas trading.
Production statistics show that the
organisation handled during the past
season a total of approximately
36,000,000 lbs. of greasy wool, of
which slightly less than half was con-
sumed in our manufacturing units.
In addition, a substantial quantity of
wool was purchased from outside
sources for use by the manufac-
turing units.
FELT AND CARPETS
DIVISION;
This Division comprises the
Woollen Felt plants in New South
Wales and Victoria, Needled Felt
mills in New South Wales, Victoria
and Western Australia, the Carpet
mills at Tottenham, Victoria, the
manufacture of Plastic materials at
Murrumbeena, Victoria, and the pro-
cessing of Textile Wastes and the
manufacture of Upholstery material
in New South Wales, Victoria and
Western Australia. All these units
were operated successfully during the
year under review.
Woollen Felt:
The Woollen Felt units were in full
production and sales were most satis-
factory, particularly of “Feltex” floor
coverings. A new type of printed
“Feltex” is now being introduced and
has met with a most encouraging
reception. Several new types of com-
petitive floor coverings are either
being imported from overseas or
manufactured in Australia, but these
have not affected sales of our own
lines, demand for which continues to
be buoyant.
Carpets:
The Carpet mill at Tottenham,
Victoria, which is operated by our
Subsidiary, British Australian Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd., also
enjoyed a successful year, The
demand for Axminster and Wilton
Carpets was strongly sustained
throughout the year and production
is fully booked for some months
ahead.
During the year, the finances of
the Carpet Company were placed on
a more permanent basis as described
later in this Statement.
Plastics:
Another unit in this Division which
has progressed satisfactorily is the
Plastic Manufacturing Unit at
Murrumbeena, Victoria, operating
under the business name of J. J.
Davies & Sons. The activities of
this unit have been expanded gradu-
ally over the past few years in order
to keep pace with the demand for its
products both from our own factories
and from outside customers. Further
developments in this field have
strengthened the relationship between
felts and upholstery materials on the
one hand and plastics on the other,
and it is apparent that eventually
some of the materials now manufac-
tured by our organisation will be
superseded by plastic _ materials.
In order to maintain its present
position in the felt and upholstery
trade and to keep abreast of new
developments in both felt and plastic
fields, the Board has decided on
further progressive expansion in these
activities.
TEXTILE DIVISION:
This Division comprises the units
engaged in combing Wool Tops,
spinning Woollen and Worsted Yarns,
weaving Woollen and Worsted Cloths,
and manufacturing Boys’ and Men’s
Clothing.
Wool Tops:
The operations during the year of
the Wool Combing Unit resulted in a
satisfactory contribution to profits
despite the lack of substantial business
from overseas.
Woollens and Worsteds;
The Woollen and Worsted Units
experienced a somewhat difficult year,
principally due to heavy competition
both from Australian industry and
from overseas. The competition from
overseas has come, not only in the
form of woollen cloths but also in the
form of cloths woven from artificial
fibres, some of which closely resemble
woollen materials. Imports have in-
creased to the extent that local woollen
and worsted manufacturers, including
ourselves, have applied to the Com-
monwealth Government for additional
protection, but this protection, it
granted, is unlikely to be effective for
some time. We are not relying on
the prospect of greater protection,
however, but on the other hand are
sparing no effort to improve the
efficiency and productivity of the
Woollen and Worsted Units, so that
they will be best equipped to meet
the future trading position. Although
the Woollen and Worsted Units can
be expected to ■ earn profits during
the present year, these earnings are
unlikely to be commensurate with the
funds invested in them so long as the
present position with imported goods
continues.
Clothing:
Our Clothing Units, which are
established in Victoria and South
Australia, have also experienced
heavy competition during the year
under review and the results of their
operations have been correspondingly
affected. A scheme of rationalisation
of production as between units has
now been carried out and it is
expected that reasonable profits will
be returned in the current year.
FOOTWEAR DIVISION:
The Footwear Division, which com-
prises manufacturing units in New
South Wales, Victoria and Western
Australia, experienced a fairly satis-
factory year, but its results were
affected by a comprehensive reorgan-
isation of production methods. The
Board decided upon a policy of
“streamlining” the Footwear Division
which involved a reduction in the
number of types produced, and con-
centration on mass production lines.
This plan covers the more profitable
types of footwear, particularly slip-
pers, in the manufacture of which
large quantities of materials manu-
factured by other sections of the
organisation are used. In carrying
out this policy, it was found desirable
to combine the operations of certain
units, resulting in the closing down
of one New South Wales factory.
On the other hand one country unit,
previously closed, was reopened.
It is not unlikely that increased
competition, both from home and
abroad, will be felt during the current
year, but your Board is of the opinion
that our reorganised footwear units
will be well-placed to meet competi-
tion. As a result of the policy
adopted, the proportion of raw
materials used in our footwear opera-
tions and drawn from our own
resources has increased, and the close
integration of our footwear and other
activities has been intensified.
NEW ZEALAND:
Our Subsidiary—Felt & Textiles of
New Zealand Ltd. —in which your
Company holds a 52.88% interest in
the Ordinary Capital, experienced a
very satisfactory year to 31st March,
1954, and its consolidated profit
amounted to £N.Z.92,840, as com-
pared with £N.Z.67,767 in 1953 and
£N.Z.64,338 in 1952. The Company
maintained its customary dividend of
8% on its Ordinary shares.
The prospects in New Zealand
appear good for the current year and
satisfactory results should be main-
tained. The return which the Com-
pany derives on its funds invested in
the New Zealand Subsidiary Company
compares quite favourably with the
earnings from funds invested in Aus-
tralian operations. Higher rates of
taxation in New Zealand offset to
some extent the benefits that could be
derived from the New Zealand Com-
pany, but nevertheless the Subsidiary
continues to be of value to the Parent
Company. A close liaison is main-
tained between the Australian and
New Zealand organizations with con-
siderable inter-company trading—
notably in wool —and interchange of
visits by executive personnel.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Felt & Textiles of South Africa
Ltd., in which the Company holds an
interest of 41.3% in the Ordinary
Capital, maintained the recovery
which it experienced in 1953, and its
results for the year ended 30th June,
1954, were very satisfactory. The
Board of Felt & Textiles of South
Africa Ltd. is recommending to the
Annual Meeting of shareholders that
a dividend of 8% on the ordinary
shares be paid in respect of the year
ended 30th June, 1954.
The Board appointed Mr. L. A.
Lochrin its representative on the
Board of Felt & Textiles of South
Africa Ltd. in place of the late Mr.
C. Rhodes-Smitb. Mr. Lochrin
recently visited South Africa at the
Board’s request and he has reported
favourably on the present position
and immediate prospects of the
Company in South Africa.
CARPET COMPANIES:
During the year, discussions took
place in Australia with Mr. E. H. O.
Carpenter, the Chairman of The
Carpet Manufacturing Company Ltd.,
Kidderminster, the Company which
hitherto had held a 26% interest in
the Paid-up Capital of £250,000 of
our Subsidiary, British Australian
Carpet Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
The object of these discussions was
to formulate proposals for making
the Carpet Subsidiary self-supporting
and, financially independent of Felt &
Textiles of Australia Ltd.
As a result of these discussions, it
was agreed that the Paid-up Capital
of British Australian Carpet Manu-
facturing Co. Pty. Ltd. be increased
to £500,000, of which this Company
should hold 66}% and The Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Ltd. 33}%. It
was agreed also that British Australian
Carpet Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
should purchase at a premium of
£50,000 the shares of another Subsi-
diary—Preston Wools (Australia) Pty.
Ltd., and that this latter Company
should purchase the carpet yarn spin-
ning plant and the yarn dyeing plant
previously operated by other Subsi-
diaries of ours.
These steps took effect as from Ist
January, 1954, and as a result, the
whole of the Australian carpet manu-
facturing activities from raw wool to
finished carpet are now conducted by
British Australian Carpet Manufactur-
ing Co. Pty. Ltd. and its Subsidiary,
Preston Wools (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
and we have a 66}% interest in these
activities. Under this new organisa-
tion, the financing of the carpet activi-
ties which had largely been carried by
Felt & Textiles of Australia Ltd. will
now be shared appropriately by the
two shareholding interests.
Somewhat similar arrangements
have been made with The Carpet
Manufacturing Co. Ltd., in regard to
the Carpet Company in South Africa
as a result of Mr. Lochrin’s visit
there. A similar ararngement has
applied with the New Zealand Carpet
Company for some time past.
SUMMARY:
The year ended 30th June, 1954,
may be regarded as one of substan-
tial achievement. In addition to
earning a satisfactory profit, an exten-
sive programme of reorganisation of
the less efficient units of the Com-
pany has been carried out, and new
personnel and financial policies have
been initiated, the benefits of which
must accumulate from year to year.
Generally speaking, the Company’s
manufacturing units, both in Australia
and overseas, are operating satisfac-
torily and a rigorous policy Is being
followed to increase efficiency in
every Division. This, and the fact
that the overall financial position of
the Company is strong, encourage the
belief that the Company will be able
to meet the challenge which faces all
Australian industry.


The only Gasoline
*
Tfi&e's a 7e//?e-e//>
/n Every Tankfut
It will step-up the
performance of every car
irrespective of age or make
★ UP TO 25% MORE ENGINE
POWER.
★ CHECKS PRE-IGNITION
PING.
★ CORRECTS SPARK PLUG
MISFIRING.
★ ELIMINATES STALLING
caused by carburettor icing.
★ COMBATS GUM.
★ FASTER WARM-UP.
1
2
G 543
Buy Mob
05
m
m
o* s
*0
°sr
**£
*°to
fo
$s
%
Maas
Wobilubficmkm
Mob' ,0 ‘
with
Mobil Power
Compound
The most powerful combine*
tion of additives ever put in
gasoline.
Highest
Anti-Knock
For greatest knock*free power.
sign
Flying Red Horse
r let
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Ettablithed 1808 in Reign of,
George HI.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem by Marjorie Mc-
Dermott, published during World
War I, containing the lines:
The little babe that came so frail and
lone.
The soldier-boy that smiles down from his
height;
It makes no difference —you are still my
own,
And as my baby you go forth to fight.
To dispose of old Bulletins of
years 1951 (some missing), 1952, 1953
and to 30/6/1954. In good condition.
Suitable as reading-matter for hos-
pital, etc. Parcelled in lots to suit
and put on train. —5921.
Sydney freelance journalist, middle-
aged, wants room, preferably isolated
from rest of house, in very quiet
bushland surroundings, but not too
far from city, with conveniences for
own cooking.—s9l3.
Words of poem “Drunks” by
Harold Mercer (“Hamer”). —5936.
To buy “Workshop Manual” for
1936 Chevrolet utility.—s 932. ,
Copies of the 50th, 60th, and 70th
Anniversary Numbers of The
Bulletin. —5934.
To hear from collectors of cloth-
ing buttons—antiques, or of general
historic association. —5938.
Information Sought
Dates of ( 1) Scott’s and (2) Shackle-
tort’s expeditions to the Antarctic,
(J) Peary’s expeditions to the Arctic ?
(1) Scott organised and led an
Antarctic expedition (1900-04). In
1910 he sailed from England for the
Antarctic, and reached the South
Pole on Jan. 25, 1912; it was while
returning from the Pole that Scott
and his party were lost in a blizzard,
within a few miles of safety. (2)
Shackleton was in the Antarctic
1908-09 and in 1914-16. In Sept., 1921,
he left London in the Quest for a
projected three-year stay in the same
Polar regions, but died on board oft
South Georgia, Jan. 5, 1922, (3) In
1886 Peary reconnoitred Greenland;
in 1891-92 and 1893-95 he thoroughly
explored North Greenland, proving it
to be an island. In 1898-1902 he was
again in North Greenland and neigh-
boring islands, and was in Arctic
regions for the last time in 1908-09.
It was on this expedition that he
reached the North Pole (April 6,
1909), the first man to do so.
* * * *
Some account of the work done by
the scientific expedition, organised by
the Australian Museum, Sydney,
which visited the interior and north-
ern parts of Australia a year or so
ago ?
More than 300 birds were brought
back, among them seven not pre-
viously included in the museum’s col-
lection —the grey honey-eater, the
white-quilled rock-pigeon, the shrike-
thrush, the fantailed warbler, the
rufous-crowned emu-wren, the north-
ern warbler, and the buff-breasted
warbler. A number of specimens were
caught of the beautiful little jerboa-
like marsupials belonging to the genus
Antechinomys. At Ayer’s Rock —in
the desert more than 200 miles from
the nearest town —a domestic mouse
was found. Only one example of the
orange-backed or desert bandicoot was
found. Many years ago it was very
plentiful. In the Forrest River, north-
west of Wyndham (W.A.) were found
400 frogs about whose species little
is yet known. Minerals collected in-
cluded gold in quartz from a rich
leader at The Granites; wolfram,
mica, malachite and azurite from
Mount Doreen, 200 miles north-west
of Alice Springs; silver-lead ore from
Arnhem Land, native copper, cuprite,
borite, malachite, chalcopyrite and
pyritic ore from Tennant Creek;
scheelite from Mosquito Creek and
cassiterite ore from Maranboy, both
in the upper regions of the Northern
Territory.
* * • •
Have any experiments been carried
out to test the use of radar as an aid
to ships navigating in bad visibility in
ice-infested waters ?
Yes, the N. B. McLean, a Canadian
ice-breaker, was fitted with a standard
type radar-set on a 500-mile voyage
in the Belle Isle and Hudson Straits.
Their experience showed that in calm
weather, which is usual in fog, ice-
formations of all types could be
detected, from large bergs at 15 to
20 miles range down to small
“growlers” at one and a half miles.
“Growlers,” which are smoothly
rounded pieces of ice protruding up
to 10ft. out of the sea and weighing
several hundred tons, were likely to be
detected at ranges not exceeding three
miles. For a ship travelling at 15
knots, that represented a warning
period of only 12 minutes. Under
conditions of rough sea and bad
visibility it was thought unsafe to rely
upon radar. Fields of tight pack-ice
composed of hummock ice could be
detected under all sea-conditions up to
ranges of about three miles, and
leads through the ice could be identi-
fied. The investigations provided no
proof that atmospheric conditions
reduced detection-ranges.
* * * ♦
Some particulars about Captain
Webb, the first man to swim the
English Channel?
Matthew Webb, popularly known
as “Captain” Webb, was born at
Dawley, Shropshire, in 1848. He was
trained for the mercantile marine on
the Conway, apprenticed in 1862, be-
coming mate (1866) and captain
(1875). He successfully swam the
English Channel from Dover to
Calais without artificial aid in August,
1875, covering about 40 miles in 21
hours, 45 minutes, He was drowned
in an attempt to swim the rapids at
the foot of Niagara Falls.
Brief Answers
8.P.: Douglas Stewart’s “The
Birdsville Track: A Verse Commen-
tary for a Film,” comprising 25
poems, and illustrated by Norman
Lindsay, appeared in The Bulletin
of October 22, 1952... .W.M.H.: The
first article on Mary Gilmore to
appear in The Bulletin was titled
“One Australian Girl” and was
printed on “The Red Page” in the
issue of September 24, 1903
S.G.D.: Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney; F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd., 338 Little Collins-
street, Melbourne; William Collins,
Ltd., 527 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne; Dymock’s Book Arcade, 424
George-street, Sydney; Georgian
House, 431 Bourke-street, Melbourne;
Wm. Heinemann, Ltd., 346 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne; Robertson
and Mullens, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne A.W.: Jon
Cleary’s You Can’t See Round
Corners, translated into French, was
published in Paris under the title Pas
d’avoine pour les toquards. Robert
Close’s Love Me Sailor, translated
into German, was published in
Munich under the title Eine Frau
war an bord HJ.: A Handbook
of Papua and New Guinea, published
by Pacific Publications Pty., Ltd., 29
Alberta-street, Sydney L. 8.: The
manager usually has an option to
purchase the American rights of the
play after he has produced the play
in the West End for a run. It is
usual to pay a sum of at least £2OO
for these in advance of royalties, but
in any case American royalties are
based on the Minimum Basic Agree-
ment of America, and all authors
having their plays produced in
America must become members of
the Authors’ League of America
A.J.R.: Write J. K. Moir, Box 1663,
G.P.0., Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
G.T.: The Irish Republican
Army (1.R.A.) was formed in 1920 to
fight for the complete independence of
Ireland. It was active until the end
of 1921; and in Northern Ireland and
England in 1938 and 1939 in terrorist
bombing. It was declared illegal by
the Government of Eire, June 23, 1939.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.M.; We have no doubt that there
are writers who could extract humor
from a fall from a billy-cart, but you
are not one of them M.A.G.J.:
We don’t like being called to read
carbon copies of single-spaced typing.
. ...1.D.T.: Very little in it
H.G.G.: An incident, not a story....
H.T.M.M.; Somehow we will try to
struggle on without your “lunatic
tales”....W.E.D.: Send “The Fallen
Angel” to a women’s magazine....
J.R.W.: Too slight as it stands....
8.R.: Try them on a women’s paper.
B.J.; Your Father Christmas was
trapped in the office chimney
P.H.: It went down for the full
count W.E.D.: It would help if
you would double-space your typing.
.. . .R.A.C.A.: Send it elsewhere
G.M.T.: Back it goes to its home in
the West D.M.S.: The “columns
of The Bulletin” are about the last
place in the world in which you
would find a story of that description.
....E.H.D.: It didn’t last the dis-
tance R.J.V.: Mulga Bill wasn’t
even a starter D.G.E.: You are
still on the outer 8.R.M.: We
have room for four lines of your
masterpiece:—
Sections are shorter, fares are higher.
The rush-hour crowds don’t seem to fit;
But with all this to arouse your ire
The charge remains two quid to spit.
....8.5.D.: The henpecked hus-
band found peace in the basket
F.W.R.: Most of us get over those
youthful indiscretions M .V .G.:
“A Warning to Others” must go in:
Although last night I was merry and gay,
I’m sick and broke and sorry today.
Oh! I hate and I curse the Demon Rum
That makes a decent bloke a wretched
bum.
H.V.P.: You’re still marching
with the rank-and-file P.S.: Well,
that should make her very happy:
As in my arms I hold you near,
My sweet and plump and lovely Leah,
I would still love you if you were skinny
And you were known to all as Skinny
Jinny.
N.W.: Among this week’s wall-
flowers M.A.: The Bulletin does
not accept stories that have been
accepted elsewhere L.V.: At least
it could not have been written any-
where else but in Australia.


INK AND ADELAIDE
2. — Australia’s First Labor Daily
By GEOFFREY BURGOYNE
W RILING after a lapse of
years, it is difficult to
recall the original
literary staff of the
“Daily Herald.” It was rather
small, as our financial resources
were extremely limited, and
some of the board had remark-
able ideas as to the number of
hands required for the produc-
tion of a daily newspaper.
Besides Mr. Wedd and myself
I have mentioned Chamberlain
and Kneebone. We were very
fortunate in getting Fred White-
head from the “Advertiser” to
lead the staff. A good organiser,
an excellent writer and cool
under any circumstances, White-
head was a tower of strength.
Len Watson came down from
Broken Hill, and with him
another Barrierite named Mc-
Lennan, a solid chap whose
knowledge of music was useful.
Jim Martindale, a brother of
Jack Martindale, chief sub. of
the “Advertiser” for many years,
was in charge of the sporting and
also did general work.
Trembath, later of the
“News,” Adelaide, was in charge
at Port Adelaide. Lindsay
Young, a son of the foreign-
news authority of the “Adver-
tiser,” was a junior, and I
engaged two inexperienced
youngsters named Maxted and
Fry, both of whom developed
very well.
Among those who joined later
in my time were Cam Pratt,
“Roger” Webb (who did cables).
Will Robertson, night sub-editor,
an old-stager named Giles who
had worked on the “ ’Tiser,” and
Tim Daly, who came from
Hobart. What the staff lacked
in numbers it supplied in
enthusiasm. The hours we
worked would surprise members
of the A.J.A. of today: it was
not in existence then.
I have forgotten many mem-
bers of the mechanical staff.
The printer, appointed by the
board, was Fred Sparrow, a
linotype mechanic who knew a
lot about those machines but
little about the actual produc-
tion of a newspaper. The liead
stereotyper was Matson, a hand-
some chap who performed won-
ders with a primitive plant—the
metal being poured from ladles.
The rotary-machinist was Charlie
Hampson, a first-class man.
The staff of the weekly was
transferred, including Willy, the
whilom casual hand, and Fred
Elder, with his Wharfdale. Job-
printing was an important fea-
ture of our activities ; the trade-
unions providing a fair amount
of work.
Of course the building of
newspaper-offices was out of the
question, and the quest for
premises convertible for the pur-
pose and within our means gave
occasion to some anxiety. In
the circumstances the board was
lucky in getting a warehouse
formerly occupied by tobacco-
importers in Grenfell-street,
opposite the Arcade. There
were two big floors, the ground-
floor sufficing with some parti-
tioning for the literary and com-
mercial staffs, the top one for
the composing and stereo work,
while there was room for the
printing-press at the rear of the
ground-floor and a lane for dis-
tribution to agents.
The linotypes were new —the
whole four of them —but only
partly paid for. The press was
not new; far from it. About
25 or 30 years before it had
assisted in printing the Mel-
bourne “Age.” It was a Victory,
I think, and had a complicated
system of tapes for feeding the
paper. When I saw the mass of
old steel unpacked my heart
sank. It seemed impossible that
an actual working machine
could be re-created from this
jumble of ironmongery: but,
with his blueprints before him,
Hampson had the press erected
with what seemed to me to be
miraculous expedition.
Although what I didn’t know
about machinery would have
made text-books for most
branches of mechanics, I did
realise that immediate smooth
running from an exhumed
veteran could hardly be ex-
pected. So when I asked Blun-
dell how the trial run had turned
out and he said the old thing
had run like a watch I was de-
lighted as well as surprised. This
was on the Thursday, after the
last issue of the “Weekly
Herald” had appeared, and I
left my cubby-hole for ever after
two years of strenuous but
enjoyable toil.
I went straight down to Gren-
fell-street to install myself in
my new quarters. My room was
large but of Spartan simplicity.
A table with drawers, a tele-
phone, a few shelves and cup-
boards, a blotting-pad, ink-well,
pencils and copy-paper. Over-
head was the composing-room,
the floor of which was my ceil-
ing. I found it advisable, after
experience, to move my table,
as I had narrow escapes from
injury from metal dropping
through two holes above me.
Inured as I was to the racket of
the Wharfdale, the clamor over-
head did not disturb me much.
We had decided to make our
bow to the public on Monday
with an eight-page paper. Ad-
vertisements were far from em-
barrassing, so we set a good
many columns of reprint. It
was hard going for everyone
from Friday morning until the
early hours of Monday. Things
had been rushed so that the
show was a long way from being
shipshape, but every department
made light of difficulties and we
were confident that we would
not have to apologise for the
issue. Somewhere about three
''o’clock —the earliest in our
career —the last plate was on the
press and the birth of the first
metropolitan Labor daily-news-
ŵ
after an appropriate speech from
the chairman of the board (R. P.
Blundell, M.P.) the signal was
given to press the button, or
whatever it was that started the
antediluvian press. Cheers,
baritone and soprano, as the
wheels began slowly to revolve,
and more cheers as the revolving
cylinders gathered way.
With what exultation we
watched our service and appeal
to the democratic heart of the
community m the process of
multiplication some thousands-
fold! But the exultation was
short-lived. Something dreadful
happened about halfway on the
long journey through the tapes
to the ejector. The paper took
a wrong turning and became a
twisted, crumpled offence to the
eye.
Consternation. “Whoa ! ”
called the machinist. He used
his spanner here and there, and
set it going again. Fast or slow,
the result was the same. The
power was shut-off and the press
was turned by man-power—
most of us taking a hand —while
the machinist tried this and that
and that and this. After an
hour the team and onlookers
were knee-deep in twisted news-
print ; the cause of the disaster
was no nearer discovery and
those who had come to cheer
remained to grieve.
“Didn’t you say that she had
gone well on the trial run?” I
said to Blundell. “Yes, so she
did,” he agreed. I couldn’t
understand how the machine
could behave like a lady on
Thursday and like an insane
jade three days later. I said,
with a note of apology for the
absurdity of the suggestion:
“Of course, you ran some paper
through?” No, that had not
been done. “Damn it,” I said,
forgetting the respect due to a
chairman of a board, “that was
not a trial run. Of course the
wheels went round.”
Dawn was drawing near, and
it was becoming painfully
apparent that the first Labor
daily was likely to be stillborn.
Blundell signalled to me and I
followed him out of the
machine-room. He asked me if
I knew Sir Robert Kyffin
Thomas, chief proprietor of the
“Register.” Well, would I tele-
phone and ask him if he would
come to our assistance? I
understood why Blundell was re-
luctant to approach Sir Robert
himself. A few days previously
he had attacked the “Register”
in Parliament, accusing it of de-
liberate misrepresentation and
other sins. Naturally he felt
some delicacy in asking that it
effect the accouchement of this
reptile contemporary.
I did not feel particularly
happy at the thought of rousing
Sir Robert from his bed at 4.15
a.m.: but, knowing the type of
man he was, I felt confident that
he would agree. So it proved. He
was most sympathetic, although
I thought I detected just a hint
of amusement in his voice. The
“Register” would print us; cer-
tainly and with pleasure, after
its own issue had been run off.
Happily the cylinders of the
“Register” would take our
plates, so it was simply a matter
of trundling them by handcart
two blocks away in the same
street. It was daylight when
No. 1, Vol. 1 of the “Daily
Herald” was handed to me in
the press-room of the “Regis-
ter.” I gave it to Mr. Wedd. I
have no reverence for relics,
such as pieces of the true Cross,
the shell of the egg with which
Columbus performed his balanc-
ing feat, a splinter from the deck
of the Victory (Nelson’s, not
ours), or No. 1 of a paper which
is the same in all particulars as
others of the same issue. These
relics are merely pieces of wood,
egg-shell and newsprint to me.
Newspapers, of course, never
exaggerate when giving their
circulation. In this instance the
“Register” obtained an accurate
idea of our initial output; but
it didn’t matter. It, being the
Conservative organ, was hardly
a competitor. The “ ’Tiser” was
our rival, and a very long way
out in front. We were a weary
team when the last number had
been run-off. I had started at
nine-o’clock on Sunday morning,
and I returned to my home at
8.30 a.m. on Monday for break-
fast and a few hours’ rest before
resuming at two-o’clock.
The fault in the press baffled
Hampson, our machinist-engin-
eer. He worked day and night
with barely any sleep, the
“Register” meanwhile continu-
ing to machine the “Daily
Herald,” for three more issues,
I think. At length, in despair,
the board wired to the “Age” to
send someone across who knew
the old contraption. Two men
were sent, but about an hour
before they stepped off the ex-
press from Melbourne, Hampson
discovered what was wrong. It
was simply a wrong adjustment
of the tapes —so simple that it
had escaped detection. When
we were turning out the paper by
our own unaided resources we
felt that the Labor daily was
really launched. Grateful as we
were, and had reason to be, to
the “Register,” our self-esteem
suffered each morning as we
trundled our plates along to our
friend the enemy.
The literary staff settled down
quickly, and, despite numerical
weakness, we managed to cover
the ground adequately. In bulk
the paper made a poor showing
against the “Advertiser,” which
had ranked as the democratic
organ because it had usually
taken the opposite side to the
“Register” in its political com-
ment. It was less conservative
than its rival and, to put it
politely, far less definite in its
expression of opinion.
To return to our muttons:
the “Daily Herald,” with six,
eight or 10 (on Saturday) pages,
looked a skimpy penn’orth in
comparison with the bulky “Ad-
vertiser,” and, alas, such is
human nature that the weight of
our sentiments failed to compen-
sate for our light weight in
ounces in the eyes of those to
whom we looked for loyal sup-
port.
Our resources, mechanical and
physical, were strained to the ut-
most in producing our relatively
few pages. With only four lino-
types and the necessity of hand-
setting the main news-headings
and the bulk of the advertising,
we were unavoidably very late
in going to press. Somewhere
about four-o’clock was pretty
good going, and, with our anti-
quated and inadequate stereo
equipment, we started to
machine when the other dailies
had about finished their run.
How do these hours strike
members of the A.J.A. today? I
commenced work at 2 p.m. nnd
reached my home again (after
walking a mile and a half) at 5
a.m. when things went well, and
between 5.30 and 6 a.m. when
they were not so good. This was
the programme six days a week
—there was no Sunday off.
I wrote a leader or sub-leader
and four or five “pertinent pars”
on five days; a non-political
leader being customary for the
Saturday issue. I looked over
every proof of the literary
matter, because most of the staff
had gained their experience in
non-Labor journalism, and sub-
consciously they gave sometimes
the wrong twist to news —par-
ticularly to headings. It was part
of my job to stand over the
make-up of the last two pages,
and when the last forme had
gone the printer not infrequently
would say that he hadn’t a line
of copy on hand, so I would
have to plough through ex-
changes for reprint to feed the
day-shift of operators. Then I
was free to go home.
The lino, men were the kings
of the job. Having so few
machines, their output per man
was very heavy, and the ringer
—an excellent operator —often
earned £l4 and more a week.
In contradistinction the editor’s
salary was £B, and to my discom-
fiture I found on the first good
Friday that my screw remained
at £5, which I had received as
editor of the “Weekly Herald.”
This, I thought, must have been
due to an oversight, but it re-
mained at that figure for some
weeks until I protested to the
board, when I was given £1
more. In my time the ghost
never failed to walk, but occa-
sionally it lagged a day or so—
that is, for the literary staff. The
mechanical men, being members
of a strong union, could not be
kept waiting.
A Labor newspaper is always
handicapped in its quest for ad-
vertisements. The big business
interests which spend largely in
extolling the quality of their
wares or services rarely see eye-
to-eye with the Labor party ; and
our circulation figures were
hardly an inducement for them
to rush us with contracts. After
this lapse of time there can be
little harm in disclosing that our
daily circulation in my time
never reached 20,000.
But for the first time in its
history Labor had a means of
expounding its views and policy
daily, and we liked to think that
we were a decisive influence in
the party’s victory in the general
election of 1910. John Verran
became Premier and Commis-
sioner of Public Works, and his
colleagues in the Ministry were:
Crawford Vaughan, Treasurer
and Commissioner of Crown
Lands; F. W. Coneybeer,
Minister for Education ; W, J.
Denny, Attorney-General and
Minister for the Northern Terri-
tory ; F. S. Wallis, M.L.C., Chief
Secretary ; J. P. Wilson, M.L.C.,
Minister for Industry and Agri-
culture. Of the six Ministers,
two were in the Upper House.
Verran, as I have indicated previ-
ously, was something of a per-
sonality. A staunch Methodist,
((Continued on page 27)


YOUR
FENCING
PROBLEMS
SOLVED
with
M
m
HARMLESS T
"NEVERTIRE"
BALL-BEARING ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
Sole Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney.
P.O. Box 50!>. Phone: 8U5093.
Branches: Newcastle, Insmore, Wagga and Hay.
ED2O
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OM $
dSUIJJVAN
«5 6W*2
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
w
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKKEKE
\ No Pads —
| No Springs
The NBO-BARREEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barkere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3a), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sydney owner E. R. Williams,
whose well-performed Pride of
Egypt led all the way in the Vic-
toria Derby to land the classic
from King Boru and Telyar, has
done well in the past four years
as a picker of Derby prospects.
His favorite horse, Hydrogen,
also won the V.R.C. classic in
1951, while Forest Beau (1951)
and Castillo (1953) both won the
Q.T.C. Derby. To win upwards
of £71,000 with two horses of
one’s own choosing, as he has
done with Hydrogen and Pride of
Egypt, is no mean feat, and there
should be more to come, especi-
ally with Pride of Egypt, a Mel-
bourne Cup possibility for next
year.
Sydney trainers won four of
the six events on the V.R.C.’s
opening day at Flemington,
while Sydney jockey Bill Cook
rode three winners (Blue Amber,
Aboukir and Pride of Egypt),
and A. Ward added to the
Southern debacle by winning the
Cantala Stakes on Prince
Cortauld.
Prince Cortauld atoned for his
defeat when a hot favorite in the
Epsom, in which Connaught
cleverly defeated him. In the
Cantala Connaught ran a sound
third after being well back in the
field to the home-turn.
Some now contend that Con-
naught fluked the Epsom in
beating Prince Cortauld, mainly
because the Prince was much
too good in the Cantala. That
overlooks the fine riding of
Melbourne horseman Bill Wil-
liamson in the Epsom. He won
on Connaught after giving the
field a start. Prince Cortauld,
6-to-4 favorite, just headed out-
sider Cyklon King in the Cantala.
Connaught was doing well at
the finish, and he was meeting
Prince Cortauld at 21b. dis-
advantage.
Blue Amber, first of Bill
Cook’s Melbourne treble, was a
rank outsider. She is a three-
year-old filly by Woodruffe
(imp.) from Waaf Girl by Hua
from Hawah by Windbag, and
comes from the same family as
Caulfield Cup winner Basha
Felika.
In the V.R.C. Oaks Stakes (run
tomorrow, Thursday, and now
worth a record £4000) the best
three - year - old fillies from
Sydney will measure strides with
Melbourne’s speediest, and the
locals might have difficulty in
keeping the invaders off. Sydney-
owned fillies have done well in
the Oaks, which was first run in
1861, the year of the first Mel-
bourne Cup. Waltzing Lily
surprised last year when she beat
Sun ViSor and Chez Paree, with
the 7-to-4 favorite, Sydney filly
Redeswood, last. However, in
late years Sydney-trained winners
of the Oaks have been Water-
lady, Grey Nurse, Nizam’s Ring,
Sweet Chime, Session and Siren.
Lady Mogambo may win the
Oaks from Karen and Blue
Amber.
Highlight of the final day’s
racing at Flemington, the C. B.
Fisher Plate was earlier run at
2} miles, then at 2 miles and since
1900 at H mile. Hydrogen will
have his chance this Saturday to
equal the performances of Alawa
and High Caste, two noted gal-
lopers who won the Plate three
years in succession. Hydrogen
(5 to 4 on) beat Aldershot and
Davey Jones in 1952, and last
spring, at 6 to 4 on, defeated
Quite Talk and Aldershot. At
£5OOO the Plate is the richest
weight - for - age contest in
Australia.
One of the most popular men
ever in racing, Sir Samuel
Hordern, was winning owner of
the C. B. Fisher Plate on three
occasions, though in one of his
wins. Artilleryman in 1919, he
shared success with A. D.
Murphy. Four days earlier
Artilleryman had won the Mel-
bourne Cup. Sir Samuel’s other
winners were Violoncello (1922)
and Pilliewinkie (1925). The
C. B. Fisher Plate has been won
by all noted horses of their years,
the list including Phar Lap,
Rogilla, Ajax, Hall Mark,
Amounis, Gothic, Eurythmic,
Kennaquhair, Carlita, Wakeful
and Trafalgar. In 1930 Phar Lap
won on each day of the Mel-
bourne Cup carnival, successes
being Melbourne Stakes, Cup,
Linlithgow Stakes and C. B.
Fisher Plate.
* • • •
Beaten by the 100-to-l Pegona
in the Randwick Juvenile
Maiden on Saturday, hot
favorite India had the favored
rails position at the barrier line-
up, but dwelt and was last in
the first furlong. Though he
raced through to the lead in the
straight the effort told; he
looked a certainty beaten. Still,
both the winner and the third
placegetter. Master Hua, came
from rearward positions and
handed out sound displays.
Pegona is one of the few Pegu’s
to race. Pegu was imported
here as a yearling, but started
in only two races before going
to the stud. R. S. Crosby, stud-
master of Bossley Park, near
Sydney, did not offer the black
colt at the sales at Randwick
last Easter, and maybe has
shown keen judgment. Pegona’s
dam, Bonarra, is a Beau Port
mare and traces back to
Grafton (imp.).
Seeta, winner of the two-year-
old Maiden for fillies at Rand-
wick, is a youngster of promise.
Raced on lease by Macquarie-
street medico Dr. John Flynn in
partnership with Ernest Hall, the
filly is trained by Jack Green,
and on breeding should develop
into a smart sprinter, she being
by Dhoti (imp.) from Sheba.
Krubi, runner-up to Seeta,
should soon win.
Lightly raced Contributor, a
three-year-old colt by Cold
Shower from Tribute, had
steadily improved before win-
ning his first race, the Mona
Vale Handicap (three-year-olds)
at Randwick, the stable showing
judgment in taking him from
the Second Deewhy Stakes, won
easily by Gypsy Tide. Contribu-
“ Don't just sit there—gimme a hand!”
tor’s dam wasn’t raced. She is
a Bullhead (imp.) mare from
Miss Pica by Magpie (imp.) and
going back to Malster.
Some breeders of thorough-
breds retain a horse or two for
their own use, and occasionally
they have the satisfaction of
seeing their choice quickly on
the list of winners. This hap-
pened at Newcastle last Satur-
day, when Persian Flash won the
opening event* tMfc Maiden
Juvenile Handicap for W. S.
Harris and Sons, of Holbrook,
who bred the filly, and for
whom she is trained by D.
Edwards. Persian Flash, by
Persian Book (imp.), narrowly
defeated another of Persian
Book’s progeny, Persian Novel,
with Dawn Joy third. Persian
Flash’s dam, Krasnoi, was got
by Pentheus, a sire of smart
gallopers.
Some riding exhibitions at
Randwick on Saturday were
far from flattering, and Sydney
punters will feel more happy
about their wagering when Sell-
wood and Thompson have re-
covered from injuries and the
local riders now in Melbourne
have returned. In their absence
Doug Weir, an accomplished
horseman, made most of his
opportunities and won three of
the eight events. In fact, had
India not been tardy at the
start of his race, Weir might
have won half the programme.
As briefly noted here a week or
two back, G. and K. Newman,
of Bourke (N.S.W.), paid 6500gns.
for Nargoon as a yearling at the
1952 Randwick auction after bid-
ding had opened at the remark-
able figure of 4000gns. They
tried him in the best and then
in the worst company, but the
result was the same —no success.
Early last month the good-
looking Nargoon was once again
paraded in the same auction-ring
at Randwick, and the opening
bid was lOOgns. He went for
550gns., trainer J. Denham the
final bidder. And now at last
he has won —in Newcastle
Maiden company, starting at
4to 1 in a weak field. He could
do better. After all, he is stoutly
bred, being by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Blackbird by Magpie
(imp.).
• * •
The M.C.C., led by Peter May,
who made a sound century,
routed a “Combined XI” in
Perth by an innings and 62 runs.
The Englishmen showed-out
much better, particularly in the
field, than they had done in their
nrevious game, against WA.
After May’s 129, the next-best
English score was left-hander
Vic Wilson’s 72. Wilson, a hard-
hitting yet dour Yorkshireman,
is in the tradition of Maurice
Leyland, though lacking some of
Leyland’s greatness. An alert in-
fieldsman, too, he snapped-up
three close-to-the-wicket catches
in the Combine’s second innings.
His fielding could help him into
the Test side.
Godfrey Evans gave a great
display all round behind the
sticks, and seems as good as
ever; in the first innings he
caught four and stumped one.
Incidentally, he recently broke
two Test ’keeping-records held
by Bert Oldfield: in the second
Test against Pakistan this year
he passed Oldfield’s record of
’keeping in 54 Tests; when he
took three catches in the fourth
Test he passed Oldfield’s Test bag
of 130 (78 catches, 52 stumpings).
Evans has dismissed 133 (96
catches, 37 stumpings).
The Combined team —eight
Westralians and Neil Harvey,
Hole and lan Johnson —could
only reach 86 in its first knock
and not quite double that at its
second try. Pitiable efforts, even
though the bowling was good.
Neither Harvey nor Hole could
get going (best effort by either.
Hole’s second-innings 33).
Johnson took two good
wickets in his first over, and
bowled impressively for the rest.
He’s one of Australia’s prospec-
tive Test captains, so selection of
him as skipper of the Combined
XI to meet the Huttons in Mel-
bourne on Friday, while by no
means conclusive, undoubtedly
is a pointer.
“K.R.”; Denis Compton, who
had to have special treatment for
his injured knee before flying out
here, is lucky to be playing
cricket at all. Shortly after his
knee-operation in 1950, his
surgeon showed an X-ray plate
of the knee to a fellow-surgeon
without mentioning Compton’s
name. “What chance has this
fellow of ever playing any
sport?” he asked. “Not a chance
in a million,” was the emphatic
reply. But the gritty Compton
hasn’t let a little thing like that
stop him.
“Bosey”; Remarkable that the
letter H begins the surnames of
three of the half-dozen greatest
English bats of all time—Hobbs,
Hammond and Hutton, (And,
not far below them, there are
Hayward and Hendren.) Among
Australian batting champions are
three H’s —Hill, Hassett and
Harvey. And there’s the West
Indian “Bradman” of the
’thirties, Headley. Apropos,
Hammoiid’s brilliance is some-
what dulled for us now by his
having come here, as skipper of
the 1946-47 side, when well past
his best; but C. B. Fry, as
quoted in Miller and Whiting-
ton’s Gods or Flannelled Fools?,
after talking about Ranji, Brad-
man, Grace and other "greats,”
says that “For pure mastery of
technique I’m inclined to give the
palm to Hammond,”
♦ ♦ ♦
Australian tennis pros Frank
Sedgman, Ken McGregor, Dinny
Pails and Max Bonner will stage
a three-day tournament in Perth
this month, followed by a
Sydney tournament in which
Gonzales and Segura will play.
Kramer will be here, too, to
look at the Davis Cup.
* * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association
has appointed Joe Gould sole
selector-coach for the coming
season ; his job is to coach a
Sydney crew to Olympic Gold
Medal standard. An outstand-
ing G.P.S. athlete, Joe was one
of the famous police eight who
went to the Berlin Olympic
Games in 1936. Merv Wood
was another member.
♦ ♦ •
“K.R.”: American golfer Ed
Furgol, who has overcome the
handicap of a useless left-arm,
had a counterpart in a Sydney
first-grade cricketer, Arthur
Steedman. In the ’thirties Steed-
man, a left-hander, was for
several years regular opening-bat
for St. George ; a consistent run-
getter and could hit hard. Yet
Steedman’s right-hand was quite
useless, and in effect he batted
one-hand.,
• * *
Freddie Dawson started in the
stoush industry 13 years back
and in his native U.S. is rated
well past his prime, yet he’s still
much too classy for anything
they’re able to stack up against
him here in Australia, home-
grown or otherwise. Latest
sacrificial offering, Filipino
Benny Salem (10.9), lasted two
minutes. Dawson (10.8) simply
walked in, slammed a succession
of left hooks to Benny’s head,
then a swing or two, and nothing
remained but the arithmetic. A
six-rounder between middle-
weights Bill Collins (11.3) and
Clyde French (11.4), full of fight
the whole way, gave customers
a fair run for their cash, Bill tak-
ing the honors on points and
Clyde’s barrackers on bellow.


he sometimes tdok the pulpit in
Moonta, his hometown. I re-
member meeting him in King
William-street when his Gov-
ernment had been in office for
some months. There was some
trouble between the Ministry
and the newly formed United
Laborers’ Union, the “Reddest”
industrial organisation of the
time, which had brought its pick-
and-shovel men out on a con-
tract-job being done for the
Government and made demands
which the Labor Ministry de-
dined to support.
I asked the Premier for the
latest news of the quarrel,
Verran’s face darkened. He
said: “That feller Smith [the
union secretary; but that was
not his name] came to see me
at the House this afternoon. He
thought he could bounce me
and was impudent. I said
‘Look here, Smith, d’y’ see
that?”’ He waved a fist re-
sembling a mallee-root under my
nose —“ ‘And them doors? ,If
you’re not out in three
seconds I’ll chuck y’ through
'em! ’ ”
“Did he go, Mr. Verran?”
“Yes, laad,” he replied simply.
This Labor leader had a con-
siderable gift of language, but
he was a truly religious man and
as honest as he was broad.
The laborers’ strike was a
tinpot affair. It didn’t last long,
and attracted little public in-
terest. The “Drivers’ Strike, n
which occurred some months
later, was a very different matter,
The union was composed of
horse - drivers employed by
carrying and delivery firms,
They were working under a
wages-board agreement which
the Legislative Council had
limited to a currency of one
year. The board had lapsed
while the previous Government
(the Jenkins Ministry, I think)
was in office, and nothing had
been done by Parliament to
reconstitute it. Some employers
took advantage of the position to
reduce wages, already low, and
increase hours, which were very
long. The Legislative Council
refused to pass the necessary re-
enacting measure, and the union
declared a strike. In the cir-
cumstances they were justified,
The drivers were forced to work
well into the night; in many
instances for less than a decent
living-wage.
The “Daily Herald” took up
the cudgels on their behalf, and
the “Register” espoused the
cause of the employers. Day
after day we thundered for our
respective sides, while the
“Advertiser” twittered about
Armenian atrocities and the
Rabbit Question, never men-
tioning the strike in its leader
columns
There was a great deal of pub-
lie sympathy for the men, but
this was alienated to a consider-
able extent by short-sighted tac-
tics by some trade-union leaders,
including our chairman, R. B.
Blundell. They formulated a
policy of direct pressure to make
the public feel the full force of
the hold-up, and to prevent the
employers using volunteer labor,
Owners of private vehicles,
motor-cars, or carts were for-
bidden to carry goods, of any
description, even for their own
use, unless they had obtained a
permit from the Trades Hall
strike-committee.
This action was, of course,
quite illegal. Blundell sat at a
table in the Trades Hall and
citizens were compelled to apply
to him in person for permission
to carry heavy goods for per-
sonal use in their own vehicles,
It was a moving spectacle to see
citizens of pronounced Tory
views making such application
for safe-conduct to Blundell,
who sat in self-constituted
authority like a Paris Commune
leader. If the mortality figures
were consulted I think that the
death-rate from apoplexy would
be seen to have been abnormal
about that time,
By the way, John Gunn, after-
wards Labor Premier of South
Australia, and later a member
of the Federal Development and
Migration Commission, was sec-
retary to the Drivers’ Union. He
was a slim, quietly spoken young
fellow of about 19.
Not unnaturally, this high-
handed procedure roused a sec-
tion of Adelaide to something
like frenzy. There was a depu-
tation of members of the Em-
ployers’ Federation to the
Premier, and the speakers made
noises such as “liberty of the
subject,” “an Englishman’s
motor-car is his castle,” and so
on. John Verran bluntly re-
ferred to the conditions under
which the drivers worked, and
the attitude of the Legislative
Council in refusing them legal
means of redress. The president
of the Federation, a soft-handed,
pink-cheeked and deeply Te-
ligious person vowed that he
was a working-man himself and
implied that his heart was bleed-
m§ constantly for the workers,
This inflamed me. I wrote a
leader to say that Mr. was
entirely ignorant of the nature
of hard work; that he had
achieved his comfortable posi-
tion of affluence by exploiting
the labor of his less-fortunate
fellows. That was pouring oil
on the troubled flames. On
the following Sunday a monster
meeting was held in the Exhibi-
tion Building. The fact that a
public meeting was held on a
Sunday in Adelaide indicates the
depths to which the feelings of
the busines world were stirred,
The “Daily Herald” leader came
in for special opprobrium, and it
was resolved unanimously that
the paper be boycotted by adver-
.tisers represented at the meet-
ing,
Next day our manager came
to my room looking sick. He
referred to the resolution and
asked what I proposed to do.
“This,” I said. “Let me know
of the first big advertiser drop-
ping out. I’ll leave the space
blank, except for a reprint of the
‘resolution.’ ” As I anticipated,
nothing of the sort was called
for.
The battle raged for some-
thing over two weeks. Mr.
Wedd was absent (owing to ill-
health), and the conduct of our
side of the argument fell on my
shoulders. My bed saw very
little of me until things had
quietened down and it appeared
certain that a compromise m
favor of the drivers would be
affected. The last shot by the
enemy was a double-column
P^ nel on cable page of the
Register he a ded : Mr.
Hughes on the Strike followed
hy a few hues in bold type ,
something to this effect.
The strike is an obsolete, brutal
and foolish weapon. Mr. W. M.
ug es ‘
The item had a star in the
right-hand corner of the panel
signifying that it was an adver-
tisement. I thought I recognised
it as a sentence in a speech by
Mr. Hughes when speaking on
the Industrial Arbitration Bill m
the Federal Parliament, but the
obvious intention was to con-
vey the impression that it re-
ferred to the drivers’ strike. I
telegraphed to Mr. Hughes and
received late that night his con-
firmation of my view. Being
flat-out, I thought I might treat
myself to a spell, so left the
office at midnight. Before leav-
ing I handed over Mr. Hughes’s
wire to a senior and asked him
to give it prominence.
To my horror, when I opened
the paper in the morning I found
that he had treated the advertise-
ment as a deliberate misrepre-
sentation by the “Register” and
attacked the paper hotly. I was
not surprised to get that after-
noon a polite note of protest
from the editor of the “Register”
(then Mr. Sowden), and had to
confess our fault; although I
stuck to the contention that the
advertisement was deliberately
intended to mislead the public.
Another strike which stirred
public feeling was the hold-up
of the asphalting of Rundle-
street, the chief shopping centre
of Adelaide. , The macadam
road had been picked up and
laying of the bitumen barely
commenced, when the union de-
manded higher wages for the
men. The contractors refused
to grant an increase and work
was stopped. Attempts to carry
on with non-union labor failed
(there was some intimidation),
and, as the street was closed to
vehicular traffic and could be
crossed on foot only at inter-
sections, business people were
greatly inconvenienced and
much annoyed.
Rumors were rife of renewal
of the work by strike-breakers,
but time dragged on and no such
attempt was made. It was be-
lieved that a non-union gang
would be pht to work late at
night, and the night-roundsmen
on the three dailies were on the
qui vive. When three weeks had
passed it appeared that the dis-
pute had reached a stalemate,
interest in the matter slackened
and the early-morning patrol of
the newspaper roundsmen be-
came somewhat perfunctory.
But the contractors were biding
their time and organising their
forces secretly. Work was re-
sumed in the small hours, and
the “Daily Herald” had the story
to itself.
It was a pure fluke, and this
is how it happened. Somewhere
about 1 a.m. we received news
by telephone that a man had
been killed in the running-yards
of the Adelaide railway-station.
Cam Pratt was on rounds and
he hurried off to the station.
There was a policeman on guard
at the entrance and he had been
instructed to allow no one
through. No argument or bribe
could induce him to look the
other way, and Pratt was des-
perate. Then he tried a long
shot. At that time there was a
dispute between the Government
and the police. Pratt drew on
his imagination and told the
constable that the “Daily
Herald” was supporting the
police side of the argument. The
man on duty hesitated ; then he
said “I’m sorry, I can’t let you
through; but you be at the
corner of Pulteney-street and the
terrace in about an hour’s time
and p’raps you’ll see some-
thing.”
That was enough for Cam
Pratt. He knew that the road-
contractors stored their material
and equipment in a yard at this
corner. He rushed back and
asked for a column or two of
space to be left open. After
hanging about the spot for some
time he witnessed the assembly
of a squad of foot- and mounted-
police. Some time later, shortly
after two-o’clock, the iron gates
of the yard opened and about 30
laborers equipped for work, and
drays of material, came out. It
was a pitch-dark night and
illumination for the work was
provided by naphtha flares. It
was quite a picturesque scene as
the work commenced under the
guardianship of this strong force
of police. They were not needed,
however, as the secret had been
well kept. The “Daily Herald”
man was the only outsider pre-
sent.
The “Daily Herald” made a
scoop of another character.
Even now, after so many years,
I grow hot when I think of it.
I have indicated that running
late was our normal portion.
One morning after three-o’clock,
when the night sub. and I were
the only members of the literary
staff still on deck, a cable was
delivered telling of an appalling
earthquake in Japan. The sub.
was excited, sensing a scoop.
Cables continued to come in
at comparatively short intervals,
and it appeared to be one of the
worst ’quakes in Japan’s shaky
history. Dozens of towns had
been demolished entirely, and
the toll of life was terrible. The
sub. and I combined to bump
out the messages, putting in
some extra groans and adding
unnecessary splashes of color
to a narrative heart-rending
enough in the raw. With our
expansion and liberal black
cross-headings we made a fine
cable-feature of about a column
and a half. We were very late
indeed going to press. But what
did we care? We had a first-
class sensation.
After a few hours’ sleep at
home I opened our contem-
poraries feverishly at the cable
pages. Not a word of the
Japanese tragedy in either. I
was elated, feeling that there
was something, after all, to be
said for going late to press. When
I got to the office, as soon after
lunch as I could, I sent for the
later morning cables. They said
nothing about an earthquake in
Japan or anywhere else. I was
astonished and uneasy; expect-
ing columns of follow-up.
At that afternoon’s sitting of
the House of Assembly, Labor
members, seizing the opportunity
of giving the paper a publicity
boost, asked the Government
whether it was proposed to take
any measures to relieve the
appalling distress due to the
terrible earthquake reported in
the “Daily Herald” but not in
either of the other morning
newspapers. The Government
was sympathetic and added
commendations of the fine cable-
service of the Labor paper.
As the afternoon drew on and
nothing came in to suggest that
business was not as usual in
Japan my doubts grew to cold
certainty. It seemed almost im-
possible to believe that a cir-
cumstantial story should have no
foundation in fact; but the
news was some years ahead of
its time. The next morning the
“Register” published the ques-
tion in Parliament, adding that
the disastrous earthquake in
Japan, reported in the “Daily
Herald,” was not mentioned by
the “Register” because it had
not happened.
Naturally we were incensed at
being sold a pup of such dimen-
sions: but we got no satisfac-
tion from the Pacific Cable
people.
A “scoop” like the one with
which the “Daily Herald” was
landed is, I should think, unique
in newspaper history outside of
America. We were first with the
news in some happier circum-
stances—from a newspaper point
of view; notably the death of
King Edward VII and the result
of the Jeffries-Jack Johnson fight
far the world’s heavyweight
championship, in which tremen-
dous interest was felt in Aus-
tra li a ,
The failure of the South Aus-
tralian workers to support a
daily paper of their own was
intensely disappointing. Circu-
lation did not improve, and so
our advertising department
found it difficult to sell space to
hard-headed men of business
who wanted value for their
money. One canvasser, how-
ever, was too successful in the
eyes of the board. He was a
rolling-stone journalist who had
drifted all over Australia. His
habit of knocking down his
cheque as soon as it came to
hand militated against perman-
ent employment. He did some
casual work for us competently,
but considered there were better
prospects for his talent in the
advertising field.
The management gave him a
trial and his commission for his
first week was about £l5. Our
business-manager a small-
gauge chap—was staggered, and
the board was infected with his
alarm. It was decided to reduce
his commission substantially,
and the rolling-stone invited
manager and board to immerse
themselves in the Torrens. In
vain I pleaded that if he made
that much money for himself
he was also making money for
the paper. The rolling-stone
rolled elsewhere, and advertising
dropped.
The unremitting struggle to
make ends meet told on every-
one. Mr. Wedd, by far the oldest
in the team, was unable to stand
up to it, and after the first six
months almost the whole of the
editorial responsibility fell on
my shoulders. My relations with
board-chairman Blundell, and
one or two of the other members,
became strained by incidents
which compelled me to make a
stand against them. The A.W.U.,
the strongest industrial organisa-
tion in the State, had never been
cordial, as it had contemplated
launching a branch of the
“Worker” in South Australia,
and considered that its claim
had been jumped. There were
personal differences, too, be-
tween some members of our
board and the union secretary,
F. W. Landie, who suddenly
found himself armed to em-
barrass the paper.
Some years previously there
had been a strike by fruit-
pickers at Renmark, and our
junior reporter, Lindsay Young,
then a schoolboy on holidays,
had been one of the non-union
workers taken on by growers.
This was “scabbing,” a particu-
larly heinous offence for an em-
ployee of a Labor newspaper.
Lundie threatened that unless
Young was dismissed there
would be a trade-union boycott
of the “Herald”; unionists
would not buy the paper or give
it their job-printing. I knew
nothing of this until Young
came to me late at night, very
distressed. He told me that the
manager had sacked him with-
out notice or salary in lieu of
notice. I told him to continue
on duty the next day and until
he heard from the editor.
I had something up my sleeve.
I had urged Mr. Wedd to make
it a condition of his appoint-
ment that selections and dis-
missals of the literary staff
should be his sole responsibility,
and to get the board’s agree-
ment in writing. This had been
done; armed with this know-
ledge, I wrote telling the board
that Young was still on the staff,
his dismissal being contrary to
agreement. This could not be
denied, and a member was de-
puted to see me on the matter.
He argued that we could not
stand up to a trade-union boy-
cott, and that the paper and the
interests it represented had to
be considered seriously.
I agreed with his point of
view, but not to the brutal treat-
ment of Young, whose offence
was that of a schoolboy. Ulti-
mately it was agreed that Young
should receive a month’s salary
and a testimonial to his good
work on the paper. I won, but
the board did not forget.
The next incident lowered my
stocks still further. Our re-
porters were more than kept up
to the collar, and were rarely
(Continued on page 34)


NOW. MORE THAN EVER
Holden Is Australia’s finest value
In August, a further reduction was made
in Holden prices. Even before this,
Holden was considered Australia’s finest
value. The proof is that during the first
seven months of this year official
registrations of Holden were nearly
three times greater than those of any
other car model.
Now, at the new low prices, Holden
offers you even better value. It is the
only car that gives you this ideal
combination • 6 cylinder performance
at the lowest price • 30 m.p.g. economy
as reported by owners • 6 passenger
roominess at the lowest price • Depend-
ability proven in the hands of more than
150,000 owners • List prices from as
low as £B7O plus tax.
Add to all these better-value features,
the low cost and nation-wide avail-
ability of Holden factory guaranteed
parts and service. The combination
of so many advantages makes Holden
Australia’s most popular car—the finest
value you can buy.
Call in and see your Holden Dealer
soon. In view of the heavy demand for
“New-Look” Holden Sedans may we
suggest that you place your order as
soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia’s Own Car
# REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST PRICES
HOLDEN STANDARD SEDAN £B7O
HOLDEN BUSINESS SEDAN £895
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN £915
All prices are subject to Sales Tax
• Convenient G.M.A.C. hire purchase available.
• Air Chief car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA W 163
1
You will be pleasantly surprised
at the moderate prices of
the high quality
watches in the
Lavina
range.
*
from only £l2/15/-.
JL- Every LAVINA has a bob-
™ magnetic escapement and a
17-jewel led movement.
Ladles’
17-jewel-
led Lavinas
are priced from
only £l4/15/-"
Gent’s
17-jewelled
Lavinas are priced
LAVENA
WATCHES
FORMER SOVIET OFFICIAL
WARNS AGAINST “PEACE
ILLUSIONS”
Igor Bogolepov served the Soviet
Foreign Office for nearly twenty
years before escaping to the West.
His positions included those of
counsellor of the Foreign Office and
a member of Soviet delegations to
various international conferences.
Igor Bogolepov is well qualified to
deal with the “peaceful co-existence”
tactics of the Communist leaders.
In the current issue of the League
of Rights’ monthly INTELLIGENCE
SURVEY an article by Bogolepov
warns against present “peace illu-
sions” and shows how they are part
of the Communist conspiracy. This
important article should be carefully
studied by all those desirous of
understanding Communist tactics.
The current issue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY also provides other
factual reports and comment essen-
tial for Christian patriots.
Single is'sue of the INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free.
Order from:
The Victorian League of Rights
(Non-party, non-sectarian )
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
JAPAN
In an editorial comment on
the economic plight of Japan,
New York “Herald Tribune”
draws attention to the remarks
of Samuel W. Anderson, U.S.
Assistant Secretary of Commerce
for International Affairs. Ander-
son said that “unless Japan can
be fitted into the free-world
economy, the free world faces
one of the most severe defeats
possible”:
“Last year Japan’s imports
were worth approximately
$2400 million, roughly twice the
value of her exports. Her
austerity programme, in brief,
seems to require bolstering from
within and Herculean assistance
from without.
“Anderson recommends that
Japan’s post-war position as a
shipping Power be re-established,
and that the free world step-up
its Japanese imports by some-
thing under one per cent. These
two measures, he said, should
save Japan respectively $4OO
million and $6OO million
annually. The alternative is the
danger of haying Japan drawn
commercially behind the Iron
Curtain.”
A contrasting view is that of
Syngman Rhee, the South Korean
President, who, as reported by
“Manchester Guardian,” has
remarked that “if the Americans
allow Japan to become stronger
than the other countries of free
Asia, that will destroy the anti-
Communist front.
“Free Asia, says Dr. Rhee, sees
no difference between Japanese
supremacy and Communist
supremacy, and would prefer a
compromise with the Com-
munists to obeying Japanese
orders. He says that the West
has forgotten what Asia suffered
from Japan and that, in spite of
what the West supposes, Japan
has given no signs of a genuine
change of personality.”
The Syngman Rhee opinion is,
of course, a biased one and
would not seem to allow for the
strong probability that Japan,
like Germany, will sooner or
later find its own way back to
power, and that the important
thing, really, is which way that
power is going to lean.
As the able New York
“Herald Tribune” writer, Roscoe
Drummond, sees it, Japan’s real
problems have been “submerged
in a sea of American dollars” for
nine years and, only now that
the dollars are drying up, is the
real picture of the economic
crisis coming to light in a country
whose foreign trade is insufficient
to buy the food to feed its
people.
This is the country which
President Eisenhower has said
must not fall into Communist
control —the “key to the Pacific,”
he called it —saying that, if it
did, the Pacific would become a
“Communist lake.” Yet, as
Drummond points out, although
Japan doesn’t want to get caught
up in trade with Red China, and
although America doesn’t want
Japan drawn into the “Chinese
economic bear-hug,” unless
America helps Japan to find
markets both in the U.S. and
elsewhere, “Japan's only road to
survival is to turn to Communist
China.”
In Japan, Drummond con-
tinues, there are 85 million
people living in a mountainous
area no larger than California.
There are 27 per cent, more
people to feed than before World
War 11, and living-standards have
fallen to the 1934-36 average.
Only through trade can Japan
feed its people and survive, but
in nearly all directions —in South-
East Asia, in Latin America, in
the U.S. and in the British Corn-
—London “Daily Express”
SIR ANTHONY
“I can remember when he was knighted—I was a young Conservative then, and he was a promising
Deputy Prime Minister.”
monwealth —barriers have been
set against Japanese trade.
Other measures of relief, such
as loans, credits, “little Marshall
Plans,” etc., have been suggested,
but, Drummond emphasises,
“the only cure is trade, not aid.”
“Japan,” Drummond con-
cludes, “isn’t going to sink in the
Pacific Ocean. She is going to
survive, and she will survive
either under our [American]
auspices or under Russo-
Chinese Communist auspices.”
Australian
Import-controls
Three comments on the Com-
monwealth Government’s stiffer
import-controls:
London “Economist,” noting
that, “after eighteen months of
progressive relaxation, Australia
has tightened its control on
imports from all non-dollar
countries,” goes on to say:
“Exporters in Britain are
naturally anxious lest this as-yet-
moderate contraction of their
largest single export-market
should foreshadow a squeeze
comparable to that experienced
in 1952-53 —when imports of
non-essentials were limited to 20
per cent, of their level in
1950-51 and imports of essentials
to 60 per cent.
“As a result of the relaxations
made from the spring of 1953
onwards United Kingdom
exports to Australia in the twelve
months to June 30, 1954, regained
rather more than half the loss
sustained in 1952-53 —when they
were cut to one-half of their
amount in 1951-52. It is indeed
the upsurge of imports into Aus-
tralia from all sources in this
past fiscal year—from £ASI4
million to £A6B3 million, a level
still, however, well below that of
£A1053 million reached in 1951-
52 —that appears to have forced
the Australian Government to go
back on its liberalising policy.
On the same subject, London
“Financial Times” finds it “a pity
that Australia has had to go
back upon her earlier intention
to allow quota-free imports of
the more essential types of
imports in the twelve months to
the end of June next.”
“Earlier this year,” the
“Financial Times” continues,
“Australia’s payments were look-
ing in such good shape—reserves
had risen from £A4I2 million to
£AS4O million in the space of a
year that the Australian
authorities, anxious to obtain the
maximum possible help from the
import-flow in contending with
inflationary pressures at home,
very considerably relaxed the
restrictions imposed to deal with
the 1951-52 payments crisis.
“Unfortunately, the additional
pressure that this policy-change
was bound to impose on the
country’s external finances was
accentuated by two developments
which • Mr. Menzies’s Govern-
ment had evidently not fully
foreseen. One was a downturn
in export earnings caused by a
tendency for those countries
that normally buy Australian
wheat and other commodities to
postpone their purchases in
anticipation of a fall in price-
levels.
“The other was a rush by
Australian importers to take
advantage of the complete
removal of quota-limits on ‘A’-
category goods to build up stocks
—a process that was accentuated
when it was realised that the
deterioration in the reserve posi-
tion between the end of April
and the beginning of September
this year could not wholly be
explained by , seasonal factors.
“With the opening of the wool-
export season, the decline in
reserves has been greatly slowed
down losses in September
totalled no more than a few
millions. But the Australian
authorities have decided that the
import-concessions they made
earlier in the year were, in the
light of recent experience, wider
than was justified by the
improvement in the country’s
basic payments-circumstances.
“It is quite possible that when
the adverse temporary factors
that have been pressing on the


*
sssggggj.#
ss
The
is
name
CD c Collum
s
m
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland since 1807
MC23/3.2
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862 .
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
1
EVERY INCH A MAN
and he looks
Clothes may not make the man, but they DO
help to make a man look his best. And that
is important! You know, by experience, how
we DO our best when we are correctly dressed.
Using only Pure Fleece Wool, the Crusader
Mills have woven for us beautiful, wear-resisting
Worsted Cloths. Pre-tailored by Stamina, these
Fancy Navy Blue, De-Luxe D.B. Suits are now
available at all genuine Stamina Men’s Wear
Stores.
iYes! You will look your best and be correct
in an attractive Stamina Suit of Navy Blue,
ask for;
Siamina/r ,J.
o*b onus
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
S 2-113
country’s payments in recent
months have lost their force —as
they should do before long—it
will be found that progress to-
wards freedom for Australian
trade can be resumed. This out-
come will be all the more likely
to be realised if the Australian
authorities have grasped the
deeper lessons that seem to
emerge from the events of the
past few months.
“These are the need of a larger
reserve than Australia now
possesses, and a more ready use
in the Government of monetary
controls for influencing internal
economic trends.”
The third comment, from P.
Adam, a London businessman,
is contained in a letter to the
“Financial Times”:
“British shippers and exporters
have not forgotten the losses they
suffered last time Australia
decided to close the doors some-
what abruptly. I cannot help
wondering if gentler methods
might not prove more beneficial
in the long run.
“The official reason for the
renewed restrictions is so-called
‘stockpiling’ by Australian
importers. Surely the way to
deal with this is to announce a
definite continuation of the status
quo, when automatically goods
from the ‘stockpile’ would be
used. Unlike claret or port, they
hardly improve with keeping—
and imports would fall corres-
pondingly.
“A large proportion of Aus-
tralian imports are financed on
credit terms either by the Aus-
tralian banks or by the City of
London, and it appears that some
gentle hints from responsible
quarters to reduce the period of
credit would also have resulted
in some reductions in imports
without having to resort to the
present drastic measures.
“As a businessman I am
unaware of existing Government
liaison-channels to co-ordinate
policies between the U.K. and
Australia, but I cannot help feel-
ing that there may be some scope
for improvement. I also hope
that the Australian authorities
will this time provide for
facilities enabling Australian
importers to honor firm
contracts in order to avoid the
serious dislocation and losses
which followed the previous
imposition of restrictions.”
not the same traditions. They
have not the same religion, not
the same economic interests.
They have not fought the same
enemy in the past. On the con-
trary, they have had wars among
themselves. For all these
reasons national feelings are
stronger in Europe than they
were in the American States.
That is why it is more difficult.
“Perhaps the E.D.C. was an
attempt to move too quickly to-
wards the result. That is another
reason why some Frenchmen in
military circles and in economic
sectors, too, were reluctant.”
France and Germany
The “U.S. News and World
Report,” which makes an excel-
lent and regular feature of long
and comprehensive interviews
with one figure or another,
generally of international sig-
nificance, lately had a session
with French Premier Mendes-
France. In elaborating on the
French attitude to several
European problems, the Premier
cast a little more light on what
have been two of the main
obstacles to European unity—
Franco-German relations and
French fear of losing its
sovereignty to any supranational
organisation.
“France,” commented M.
Mendes-France, “has been en-
gaged in two wars recently.
Each time the Germans were the
enemies and the British the
friends. The French were willing
to reconcile themselves with the
Germans. All the French people
are. Of course they don’t all
agree on the question of Ger-
man rearmament, but the idea of
reconciliation is an idea which
everybody accepts.
“Everybody realises in France
that peace in Europe will be
insured on a sound basis only
when France and Germany
agree to co-operate on a friendly
basis. But when Frenchmen
saw in the European Defence
Community a kind of German
co-operation to be obtained at
the price of cutting our co-
operation with the British —that
we would be nearer to the Ger-
mans and further from the
British —many objected. They
want reconciliation with Ger-
many, but not at the cost of
parting from the British.
“They have the feeling that,
in the past, the British have
helped us, given us our security.
On the contrary, the Germans
were our opponents. And the
French people didn’t understand
why they should accept some
kind of organisation in which
the British would not take part.
Anything the British will accept
the French will understand they
must accept, too. But if the
British don’t accept it it is very
difficult for the French to see
why they have to accept it. So
the first thing which was criti-
cised in E.D.C, was the absence
of the British, and, when we
look for new devices for organis-
ing Europe, the first thing is
that we have to see the British
included if possible.
“Another thing which worried
some people in France was the
supranational organisation of
E.D.C., the giving-up of an im-
portant part of our sovereignty
in military fields. I myself am
convinced that, in the future, we
will have to give up quite an
important part of our sovereignty
and will have to accept some
organisation in Europe in which
some supranational institutions
will be built. But lots of French
people are reluctant to do that.
We have to bring them to that.
“I think it is the duty of the
Government to lead them in such
a direction. But the speed of this
evolution must be carefully
studied. It will not be possible
to get the French people to
accept too rapid an evolution.
This kind of evolution must be
made, but must be made at a
sound and cautious speed. It is
difficult to get any country to
come into a common organisa-
tion in which its elbowroom and
freedom of action will be
reduced.
“So it was for America when
it built its own confederation
in the United States. At the
beginning there were 13 repub-
lics, speaking the same language,
having the same religion, having
fought a common enemy. They
had the same interests, and, in
spite of that, it was awfully diffi-
cult to bring all these States
under one Federal Government.
They formed a confederation
first, a Federal Government
years later.
“In Europe it is more difficult,
because Europeans don’t speak
the same language. They have
Various Voices
Sir Winston Churchill:
“Declarations of war may them-
selves have become unfashion-
able in the era of science and
hatred, of levity and foreboding,
through which mankind is stead-
fastly making its way.”
J. B. Priestley: “Next time I
would not cross the road to help
any politician alive get anything
he wanted —with the possible
exception of Adlai Stevenson.”
Ours is
above all an island story. We
are still an island people in
thought and tradition, whatever
the modern facts of weapons and
strategy may compel.
Sam Watson {member of the
Labor-party delegation to visit
china): “Regulations, resolu-
tions, statutes, produce no bread
and honey and whether it be
Asia, Africa, Europe, the
Americas, or elsewhere, the
problem remains the same-how
to produce enough to enable men
to live a free and full life.
C
Europe [K hen asked whether ke
KO “ ld P re >" to have France ° r
Germany as ‘That's
like asking me which leg I d like
to have cut off my right or my
left. But, if I had t 6 choose, I d
choose France. With France, it
might be possible to defend
Germany and Europe, but, with-
out France, neither Germany not
Europe could be held.
Herr Grotevohl {East
Germany's Prime “It
is better to have a bad frontier
and peace than a good frontier
and war.”
Jfc - no
or that China wdl remain
Russlas p,lant mStrUment -


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Darwin
According to the latest census the
population of Darwin is now 8047 per-
sons.
At the previous census, taken in 1947,
when folk were still making their way
back to Darwin after the war, the popu-
lation was 2538. In other words, it has
increased more than threefold in the last
seven years.
Good going, but, according to official
records, the population of Darwin in
1873 was 7420, and, as the Chinese who
were to help build the North-South rail-
way did not arrive until the following
year, that population must have been
almost wholly European (aborigines were
not included).
An increase in population of 627 per-
sons in over 80 years! An average of
about eight persons a year. What a
comment on the government and de-
velopment of the North! — Wingella
(N.T.).
Literary Interests
Even if Shaw had endowed some
company to produce a literary magazine
(B. 29/9/’54) it is far from certain that
it would catch on today.
In the earlier part of the century
readers in Britain and the Empire were
keen book-lovers (so keen that many Of
them subscribed to literary magazines to
get a preview of what they would
purchase for the month); but thousands
upon thousands of those readers are
readers no longer.
Ngt that books are so much dearer,
but the interest has waned; The modern
reader prefers the short magazine article,
and there is a growing interest in the
present generation in technical and
scientific articles,
• Thousands of ex-servicemen, now in
their mid-thirties, who spent years in a
technical environment, are lapping-up
technical and scientific articles. Many
are buying the growing number of books
dealing with these specialised subjects.
They are not interested in literary master-
pieces or what some expert has to say
about them.
Take “John Bull,” “The Saturday
Evening Post” and the magazine supple-
ment to the Sunday edition of “The
New York Times.” A cross-section of
their articles would probably represent
a greater reader-following than any other
world-magazine. Yet the articles hardly
touch on literary masterpieces and deal
more with international political moves,
roaming observers’ reports and some
first-rate articles on science and the
technological problems of the modern
world.
Thirty years ago every main Aus-
tralian paper carried a literary supple-
ment each Saturday. Nearly every article
was a book-review and, in their day,
very popular. Today, the only papers
running a special literary supplement are
Melbourne “Age” and Perth’s “West
Australian.” The other papers still run
book-reviews, but they are only secondary
to the magazine sections, which have
become very popular, particularly in the
post-war decade.
It seems a pity, perhaps, that there is
not more demand for the literary master-
pieces and magazines about them, but
public demand is the test for the market
and it prefers lighter, shorter reading.
Not that we are becoming less
interested in the humanities ; it is just a
change we are going through. The literary
masterpieces may regain their once-pre-
eminent popularity, but I doubt it. TV,
the movies and the trend to more out-
door entertainment, particularly in the
last 20 years, are some of the reasons.
But one healthy sign throughout
world is the theatre. The success of the
Stratford Memorial Theatre company at
home and in America, in Australia and
other centres of the Commonwealth, is
proof that all is not lost. And the
success of Borovansky’s ballet on its
present Australian tour shows that what
we have lost in reading good books has
been offset to some extent by fine
theatre. — Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
What It Takes
Hardly a year passes but one of the
thousands of abandoned old mineshafts
dotted all over Australia doesn’t claim
a victim. There were two shaft accidents
within a week recently, one in W.A. and
one in Victoria.
Westralian prospector G. Allen fell
down a shaft in lonely country near
Kanowna. Practically unhurt by the
40ft. fall he faced the almost certain
prospect of death from thirst and
starvation. He owes his fife to persis-
tence and sheer luck. Two and a
half days after he fell his yells were
heard by a couple of dam-sinkers who
had come over to his camp to borrow
some tools.
In Victoria, W. Donelly (57), a
carpenter of Colac, wasn’t so lucky. He
was working on a job at Daylesford,
and while gathering firewood after sun-
set on Thursday he stepped on the over-
grown entrance of a well - concealed
shaft. Down he went, 50ft. to the hard,
dry bottom.
It was dark when he came-to, badly
shaken and with his leg broken above
the ankle. He shouted for a while but
soon gave it up as useless. He bound
his leg with belt and bootlaces and sat
back to assess his position’. It couldn’t
have been much grimmer. The sides of
the shaft were vertical, hard and smooth,
without a vestige of a handhold remain-
ing ; worse, he could hope for no out-
side help, because his mates on the job
expected him to be returning to Colac
early next day and therefore wouldn’t
miss him. Rather than panic and
exhaust himself with fear, Donelly slept
on it until morning.
There were a few sticks lying in the
shaft —possibly they had come down with
him—and as soon as daylight glimmered
down he took out his small pocket-
knife and went to work. It was a long
job cutting three pieces of timber a little
longer than the width of the shaft, but
that was only the start. The pocketknife
was hardly a suitable tool to gouge-out
hitches in the rocklike walls, but that’s
what had to be done,
Using the sticks as the rungs of a
ladder, standing on the middle one and
hanging on to the top one while he
gouged-out a new pair of holes higher
up for the bottom one, Donelly began
to rise out of his prison. By dark on
Friday he was up 14ft. and called it a
day, returning to the bottom to sleep,
Early next morning he was at it
again, toiling upwards rung by painful
rung—a dangerous enough business even
for a fit young man, and time after time
he nearly fell, A dozen feet from the
top he fumbled the changeover and the
stick fell to the bottom. This was very
nearly the end. With two sticks only he
had to go down again to get the other,
and he knew, in his weakening condition,
that he’d had his last chance. There
could be no more mistakes.
Donelly didn’t remember much after
that, but late on Saturday night, 52 hours
“With tea at seven-and-fourpence now it's driving us blokes to drink."
after he had fallen in, he struggled out
into the moonlight.— Edx (Vic.).
... . . . _ . . .
Writing lor television
Of course, “the basis for radio-writing
is the ability to write” (B. 15/9/’54).
But what happens when the average
writer decides to try his hand at radio?
He’s heard radio all his life, but he’s
listened very seldom. He spends a couple
of months listening, then gets the A.B.C.’s
little booklet, learns nothing from it, and
sits down to write the radio-play of the
century. It is knocked back, and it’s a
good thing he can’t see the reader’s eyes
rolling up to heaven as he tries to think
of some criticism that’s not too hard on
the poor mug.
Then he gets a break. He meets a
radio-producer and they talk about writ-
ing and writers. The producer invites
him to visit the studios, talk some more
and see a play produced. He’s given a
small job as a trial and the producer goes
through it with him, showing him what
is and what isn’t good radio. Then he
knows what to listen for and he’s on his
way. Textbooks help him a bit, but not
much. The greatest help he can get is
from the oroducer
But producers are busy people, in my
experience. TV-producers will be even
busier. You can listen to radio for years
and I suppose look at TV just as long
without having many clues about what
to listen and look for. But with someone
to go to for advice, say, a competent
mal in a school, the writer who is* keen
and intelligent enough to absorb and use
w mi S r* to nnTnf oivp „c TV-writing
Thats r»y p . g ’ ®
courses now, in conjunction with the tech-
mca! and production
and Australian would-be TV-writers
wont be left at the post as they were
with radio. V. J. . ( • •)•
‘
Australian Wines
I am gladdened that John Seppelt
(B. 20/10/’54) has defended the best
Australian sherries from an unqualified
and quite unjust implication of poor
quality. As an aficionado of sherries as
the Spaniard knows them, I heartily agree
that a few of our finest finos and dry
flor sherries are equal to the best from
Jerez de la Frontera by all standards
except that of individual local flavor —
which is a matter of acquired and
personal taste.
Picked Australian sherries, also, are
superior to the “popular”—that is, low-
priced—Spanish sherries, but the
immature and hastily produced, cheap
Australian sherry is something which
only metho-addicts and madmen would
tolerate in Spain.
In England—price for price—South
Africa commands the sherry market, and
some of the stuff that is sold thefe as
Australian sherry should never have
been passed for export. There is no
reason for the survival of such stuff,
and there are many reasons why it should
be made a penal offence to produce and
market it.
Good heavy Australian sherry, sold at
below luxury price, does exist, but the
vintners’ cellars have to be bombed to
find it, and the next batch—under the
same label—is as likely as not to prove
disappointing. I have, as yet, been unable
to discover a really very dry and drink-
able Australian sherry, but I have not
given up hope.
A final plea: Let us print the word
“Australia” on the label in the same type
as t j iat em pi o yed to describe the sherry,
and no t relegate it to a microscopic
“Produce of Australia” on the selvedge.
But, at the same time, we must put good
wine into the bottle.— Vino del Pais
(N.S.W.).
.
Australians in Japan
The two books reviewed under this
title (B. 20/10/’54) apparently give a very
true account of Japan as seen through
the eyes of the majority of the occupa-
tion forces—those who never looked
further afield than the beer-hall nearest
their barracks,
It is quite true that near each occupy-
tion-force establishment “the scene is
brutal and brutalising: scratch quarters,
gaudy dance-halls, blackmarkets, brothels,
clinics, love-nests. As in every nation
which has been invaded, there were those
who were willing to degrade their nation
and themselves for private gam, and the
highly paid foreign soldier was the
natural target for the avaricious. Prosti-
tutes were recruit ed from all over the
+ c °untry to fill the brothels surrounding
he military bases and blackmartet opera-
tots, crowded m to share with them the
harvesting of the soldier s pay. Remffli-
£ er ’., \ 00 ’ P? at fl the blackmarket
brothel could flourish only a §
«olc wo “£i su PP ly one
« SCene CU ° P *
hQ another side tQ
Future. Most members of the occupation
forces had ample leave. Travel was cheap
and) if Qne elected tQ travel first . c i ass ,
leasant a journey of only a few hours
P reveal wherg &ny attempt
to blackmarket wodld be COU rteously but
firmly rebuffed; where brothels, if they
existed, were not evident; where the
soldier was given the same incomparable
service and respect as any pre-war
tourist.
I could tell of the hotel waitress at
Unzen who insisted on carrying my heavy
kitbag to the railway-station and then
refused a tip, saying that all charges had
been included in my bill; of the drner
who, finding I had boarded the wrong
bus at Kamakura, swerved his vehicle
across the road so that the correct bus
which was following was forced to stop
while I changed over ; or the attendant
at the Shimonoseki inquines-omce wno
left his desk and personally conduc e
me to the correct platform to catch a
train.
I have been expecting books such
Sowers of the Wind and Pattern of Lon-
quest, and they do truthfully describe one
side of the picture. I hope, however,
for the sake of a true understan ing
Japan someone of equal literary a i
will consider it worth while to aesc
the other side.—Contact (Vic.).


the new MOBILCO Junior
F.'O.R. Melbourne
THE LOWEST-
PRICED
GEAR-
DRIVEN
SWING
SAW
Can be bought for only £6B Deposit
Smaller brother to the Mobilco Bush King
and Model B Saws, the "Junior" is the
ideal lightweight for the farmer, grazier,
contractor or even the man who clears land
on a week-end basis.
ẁ
You get "the lot" - LOW PRICE plus VALUE plus MOBILCO'S 6 MONTHS'
GUARANTEE plus these MOBILCO SUPER FEATURES:
fa In-built gear reduction
fa Finger-tip control fa Easy
positioning for cutting at any
angle fa Drives up to 36" blade
fa Spindle mounted on ball
bearings fa Undercarriage gives
ample clearance for ripping on
ground fa 5.2 h.p. Mobilco
engine. Runs AVz hours on one
gallon of petrol.
POST NOW FOR
DEMONSTRATION
I would like to see a demonstration of
the Mobilco "Junior" as soon as possible.
Name
Address
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 .... TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA - - PHONE; WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
JFailh lit IJtc
Movement—in time, in action —is a governing
principle in this world. Man has moved on from the
primitive, until today he has beaten sound in its flight
Have you thought of the brilliant extensions of
the future, to be borne in on marvels fresh y won to
the command of hand and brain?
The world will not rest where it is. It has never
rested.
That which appears today as a wide river of
achievement, tomorrow will be seen as only a tributary
of a stream still sweeping mightily on.
Those who think and feel must be asking
themselves where the ultimate in human accomplish-
ment does lie.
Permit me a personal reflection. I believe that
Man will remain essentially unchanged amid the
discoveries, many of them still undreamt, that will
flow from his creative effort.
For life has spiritual qualities that formed their
own values at the dawn of Time ; and those values
will be undiminished at the end of centuries to come.
They are constants in the experience of living.
One of them is Faith in its many aspects—in the
hopes of men, in their religion, in the ideals they cherish
for themselves, their families, and their country.
The unfolding splendours of the age may dazzle,
but can never daunt, the man who believes. His faith
implies a positive courage to all that moves swiftly
around him.
He balances his approach to life with a reverence
for the small and seemingly unimportant things of
dajMo-day existence.
The faithfql man accepts his part in the changing
world. He uses whatever it has to offer him in science
and invention. But he still keeps within his life an
affection for the simple things.
And even though his way be humble, he is
contributing as much to the grand sequence as the
genius and the man of power—because he brings to
his opportunities the best he has within him to bring.
and captured the power in an atom.
Saving
Certainly it’s not the spend-
thrifts who finance undertakings
like the Snowy River project (B.
29/9/’54), but, unfortunately,
little is being done to bring more
people into the group that saves.
Look at the advertisements of
the Commonwealth Savings
Bank —“Plan your holiday now,”
is one slogan that comes to mind.
It really means “Save now, so
that you’ll have more to spend in
a few months’ time.” That won’t
build any hydroelectric schemes.
Even the national savings cam-
paign suggests, though perhaps
not in actual words, saving for
short-range objectives.
When a Commonwealth loan is
launched, the wage-earner hasn’t
£2O to invest. Had he started
saving six months before the
loan opened he might have been
able to save that £2O.
What is needed is a campaign
for long-term savings. We must
be taught to put aside money
that we never intend to spend.
We may spend the interest it
earns, but not the original
savings.— Mullum (N.S.W.).
Depressions
As one who really went
through the depression of the
’thirties (B. 20/10/’54), I’d say
the keenest of its effects are
psychological. The futility of
job-seeking at a time when most
firms were sacking, and the
bitterness of continual rejection
and frustration, could build up a
no-hoper complex which a whole
lifetime might not erase.
Fortunately there is also the
more constructive aspect. We
who were thrown suddenly from
apparent security into an over-
crowded labor market learned—
in the hard way—the worth of
self-reliance and experience.
While sharing “Mabsout’s”
disgust of the “vultures” who
look forward to the next depres-
sion so that they may exploit
human misery, I wouldn’t be sure
that our developmental pro-
gramme can prevent another big
slump. Though not a pessimist,
I know that depressions are
caused by world-wide economic
conditions, and that no nation
can completely escape. — Arthur
Falk (Vic.).
National Service
If universal National Service
has to be modified, it would be
better if city-dwellers were called
up in preference to young men
from the land. Country-
dwellers of all classes live a life
that makes them natural soldiers.
Few of them cannot handle fire-
arms, and in their daily life self-
reliance, team-spirit and dis-
cipline are natural and necessary.
In the past, Australian country-
men have been turned into first-
class soldiers very quickly. That
will be the case in the future,
too.
The everyday experiences that
make the typical countryman
such good military material are
foreign to most modern city-
dwellers. They need far more
elaborate training to bring them
to the equivalent military value.
There are probably many
thousands of young fellows in
the big cities who are completely
unskilled in the handling of fire-
arms. They commonly lack, too,
the character-building influences
in their social and economic life
that are characteristic of rural
environment. Morris the
Tinker (N.S.W.).
Labor and Leisure
Acts of Parliament and Arbi-
tration Court awards can never
give us higher standards of living
unless we are prepared to work
harder for them.
To work harder is not neces-
sarily to work longer, and if the
standard working week of 40
hours meant that every man gave
40 hours of honest work each
week he would soon find his pay
buying more goods. Unfortun-
ately, by many and devious ways,
not all the fault of the employee,
the working-week falls far short
of the stipulated hours, and the
man who gives less than his best
effort in trying to “get one home
on the boss” is, in the end, cut-
ting no one’s throat but his own.
Employers are not entirely
blameless for this attitude, and
many could do more to make
their employees feel secure in
their jobs, but the day has long
gone when ruthless employers
could exploit their labor.
Anyway, why is work some-
thing to be avoided like the
plague? Any man who takes no
pride in his job is to be pitied—
he has chosen the wrong calling
in life and is of no use to himself
or anyone else. Each of us is
free to select his own way of
earning a living.— Vega (Q.).
China and U.N.
A radio programme the other
day contained an impassioned
talk by a representative of a
group of anti-Communist trade-
unions. His subject-matter
ranged from the Spanish war
through the evils of the Nazis
to more recent events, but the
main point to emerge was a
plea for the exclusion of China
from the United Nations.
Whether we like it or not, the
Communists control China’s
millions. To pretend otherwise is
an ostrich-like attitude. Our only
reason, then, for excluding them
from the U.N. would seem to be
that we are afraid that they may
there put forward ideas and ideals
other than those which we
support.
That raises the question: was
U.N. intended as a kind of club
for nations of certain political
philosophies, or was it intended
as means of settling differences
of opinion by negotiation?- If
the latter, then there would
appear to be no excuse for
China’s exclusion unless we are
to admit that the U.N. has failed
and no longer represents any
nations except the little group
dominated by Britain and
America. — Contact (N.S.W.).
Car-thefts in Victoria
In Victoria the “illegal use” of
cars is becoming more and more
common every year. In the first
nine months of this year over
2500 vehicles were stolen, com-
pared with 1895 in the same
period last year. And the 1953
figure was more than the 1952.
A lot of car-thieves are
youngsters. Most of them prob-
ably don’t realise the seriousness
of it, that car-stealing is a crime,
as bad as any other form of,
stealing, and penalties for
“illegal use” of motor-vehicles
aren’t heavy enough, in Victoria
anyway, to convince them. In
Queensland and S.A., where
penalties are more severe, the
offences are less frequent.—
Roscoe (Vic.).


-ft
0
\
■2
Hi*.
I I
The darling! I wish he was mine,
I think he is simply divine!
He was tharked, so they say.
The Elastrator way,
That’s why his condition is fine.
With shock and set-back avoided lambs that are marked
and tailed by "Elastrator" Rings retain their prime condit-
ion . . . Stockowners everywhere report a considerable
reduction in losses when "Elastrator” Rings are used.
Elastrator Instrument .... £6/6/-, plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) 30/-. plus freight
Elastrator Loader £5/5/-, plus freight
For Marking and Tailing Lambs
... For Marking Calves
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia —a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
STtl-
BOH*
W-W*
J?
y Dti€al-Oi*
. STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular * gladly .applied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. 80. JSII.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 7llf. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK &. STATION AGENTS
r m does a MAN’S job
The "FARMERS' BOY .w a. P u,c.
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cultivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The World-famous FARMERS’ BOY
STEPPED-AXLE PLOUGH
consisting of 22 x 4in. metal eleated wheels, heavy
plough beam, fully adjustable disc coulter, breast
share, landslide and the UNIQUE STEPPED AXLE
which keeps the machine level when ploughing. The
lower wheel rides in the’ completed furrow, the stepped-up wheel on
the higher ground not yet ploughed, the correct balance thus ensuring
full application of the GEARED STRENGTH of the FARMERS
c
BOY.
Write or telephone your nearest State Distributor for free particulars and
for demonstrations:
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 46 Young St., Sydney. . 8W4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS CO-OPERATIVE, LTD., 90-92 William St ..Melbourne.
MU8551. Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’LAND), LTD., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
FA2631. Tas.: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., S. Aust..
A. M. JOHNSON & SONS, LTD.. 200-204 Grenfell St, Adelaide iIS L
Sole Aus. Agents: HUBERT STOKES & CO., 74 Castlereagh St., SI DMA-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
COCOA IN NEW GUINEA
ARTICLE by Jack Lusby on
coffee- and tea-growing in
New Guinea’s high country (B.
29/9/’54) suggests that main-
landers may be interested to
know how another up-and-
coming beverage-crop—cocoa —
is doing in the Territory low-
lands.
Cacao (the term used to denote
the tree and the unprocessed
product) has been grown in New
Guinea since 1905, but has only
become important as a planta-
tion-crop since World War 11.
In various parts of the Morobe,
Madang, New Ireland, Bougain-
ville and Talasea districts, but
particularly on the Gazelle
Peninsula (Rabaul-Kokopo area)
of New Britain, cacao-planting
is now a fashionable pursuit
with both white and brown culti-
vators. Territorial production
over the past year was approxi-
mately 800 tons only, but should
jump to 2000-3000 tons by 1957
as new plantings come into full
production.
The light pumice-type soil
(apparently spewed from Rabaul
Ga'zeUe proved
eminently^ suitable for cacao. Its
popularity with copra-producers
has been enhanced by the dis-
covery that it can be grown in
the same plantation as coconut-
palms, without apparent com-
petition between the two crops,
Normal spacing for coconut-
palms is 30ft., and for cacao-
trees 15ft. Cacao yields being
obtained on the Gazelle
Peninsula by this method com-
pare favorably with those in
West Africa and the West Indies,
where cacao is grown alone,
This is doubly fortunate, as
many of the German-planted
coconut-plantations on the
Gazelle Peninsula are now
approaching an age where
declining productivity is to be
expected.
In addition to this inter-
planting, hitherto - uncleared
portions of European (and
Chinese) plantations are being
used wholly for cacao, which
currently has two important
advantages over coconuts,
Firstly, like coffee, the cacao-
tree commences to bear properly
between the third and fourth
year, as against the coconut-
palm’s seven to eight years
(around Rabaul some cacao-
trees have produced pods less
than two years after planting);
and secondly, while the prices
of both crops are extremely high,
that of cacao is less likely to
drop in the future.
Planted on the triangle, with
15ft. spacing between trees, you
g e t approximately 220 cacao-
trees to the acre. On the Gazelle
Peninsula yields are up to half-
ton of dried beans per acre
annually, from trees five to six
years old. At nearly £6OO per
ton that’s lucrative, even after
allowing for comparatively high
labor costs and an export duty
D f up to 10 per cent, of the
market-price.
X h e cacao is a rain-forest
vegetab le ; it flourishes best in
k»my soil with a 100in.-200in.
, and ,. at "7.” 0re * h “
1000 ft. elevation. Like coffee
cultivation conditions are
roughly similar—cacao must
have shade. The most favored
permanent shade in New Guinea
is Lamitoro (Leucaem glaucd), a
tough and free-seeding legume
with a canopy habit of growth,
This is preferred to crotolaria
(Crotolaria anagy raided), which
has a much shorter life on the
coast than in Lusby’s highlands:
it is, however, frequently used
on cacao-plantations as a quick-
growing temporary cover. The
leucaena is hedge-planted, and
allowed to grow for up to six
months before the cacao is
planted out from the nurseries
in previously prepared holes,
Shade is thinned out as the cacao
grows, but never eliminated,
Cacao is very liable to wind-
damage, and wind-breaks of
mango, cassia, canarium almond,
etc., are essential.
An early .pruning of cacao-
trees is necessary whenever basal-
shoots or many-branched stems
appear; futher pruning to induce
correct ramification and to
remove erect-growing water-
shoots is needed from time to
time.
The cacao-flowers, and thence
the pods, grow straight from the
trunk and main branches of the
tree. As pods are ripening for
almost 10 months of the year,
production is more or less con-
tinuous, with (on New Britain)
a major seasonal peak at the
onset of the “dry” season. Most
of the Territory cacao is a hybrid
from crossing of Forastero and
Criollo strains; one result being
a wide'variation in the color of
the ripe pods, ranging from
green-yellow and orange-red to
deep-red or mauve. Picking is
by hand, and it takes some time
to teach New Guinea natives to
harvest pods at the correct stage
of ripeness, and to distinguish
the appropriate color-changes.
A good average tree yields
some 51b.-61b. of dried beans per
year (equals 121b.-131b. wet
beans picked). At the Kerevat
Lowlands Experimental Station,
where vigorous research-work in
cacao-breeding is being carried
out by Leon Bridgland and his
team (results of pre-war work
were destroyed by the Japs),
individual trees yield up to 251 b.
of dried beans annually. Aim of
the Agriculture Department is to
evolve disease-resistant types that
will give high yields. Possibili-
ties from seed and clonal selec-
tion are immense, but a good
deal of work remains to be done.
At present it is not possible to
predict with certainty that the
progeny from a particularly
good parent-tree will be equally
as good.
On picking, ripe pods are
brought to the fermentery,
broken, and the beans (they are
encased in a sort of mucilage
having a pleasantly tart flavor)
are tipped into wooden-boxes to
ferment. Contact with metal,
which interacts with the strong
acids formed during fermenta-
tion, must be avoided. The
fermenting process, involving
two or more turnings of the
beans, may take up to a week.
As aroma and taste are developed
during this process, it must be
watched carefully. After fermen-
tation the beans are dried, either
in the sun (sudden rainstorms are
a hazard) or in hot-air driers —
kiln-type or rotary-mechanical.
The drying process must be
thorough or the beans will go
mouldy, but they must not be
cooked. Washing and polishing
of the dried beans is occasionally
carried out. The final product,
looking rather like a large,
plump, rounded almond-kernel,
is bagged and shipped.
The cacao is a delicate tree,
more subject to insect and fungus
pests, particularly stem-borer and
root - rots, than the hardier
coconut. Hence all bush debris
and stumps should be carefully
cleaned from cacao-land. The
capsid insect is probably the
worst pest encountered in New
Guinea to date, but the giant
African snail, introduced by the
Japs, has taken considerable toll
of seedlings, and in some areas
parrots account for large
numbers of ripening pods! There
has been no sign of the virus
diseases which decimated the
West African cacao a few years
ago, but no one knows when one
or another of the teeming small
life—animal or vegetable —of the
New Guinea bush may suddenly
develop a preference for cacao.
Among the 32,000 Tolais on
the Gazelle Peninsula, already
the Territory’s most economically
advanced natives, cacao cultiva-
tion has become popular. Agri-
culture Department officers have
estimated that up to 700,000
native-owned trees have been
planted, and native production is
expected to rise from the 100
tons recorded last year to nearly
1000 tons by 1958.
As the native cacao will ulti-
mately account for a significant
proportion of total production,
steps are being taken to ensure
that it achieves and maintains a
good standard. All native groves
are now being registered, and
diseased or badly planted trees
must be cut out. In addition
the five Government-sponsored
Tolai councils have passed
identical rules covering cacao
cultivation, and a system of
council-financed central fermen-
teries, based on a voluntary co-
operative scheme of bulk proces-
sing and marketing, has been
launched under the guidance of
Native Authorities officers.
Already native cacao from the
central fermenteries is of equal
quality to the average planta-
tion product; sometimes it is
better. One council-sponsored
fermentery, at Vunamami near
Kokopo, marketed nearly
£lO,OOO-worth of dried beans for
the six months ended June 30
last, getting up to £592 a ton
for it in Sydney, with a net
return per native grower of
nearly 3s. per pound.
A lot more will be heard of
the New Guinea cacao industry
in the future. Two big obstacles
to expansion: scarcity of good
land in accessible places and high
cost of clearing virgin rain- forest
—up to £lOO an acre to get your
cacao planted. To hop into the
cacao game in the islands you
need £lO,OOO to £14,000 capital.
DISTROFF.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
About November 14-18, 84 years ago, there were some
general and in places heavy rains. If these come the season
will be fairly good, but if they fail there should be a
general decline in the rainfall for some months, with several
heat-waves in November.
I have been 30 years on this problem, which my friend,
the late Professor Priestley (after examining it for the
Queensland Public Service Commissioner), said would take
300 years to solve: that is, it would take that length of
lime to obtain the necessary data. Several inquiries have
been made since then without result, and I then proposed a
three-year test, which meant a three-year forecast, which
begins with dry conditions for this and the next two years.
This year has fulfilled its dry character, except for
some Uranian reliefs on the eastern parts, and the relief
given by the long-predicted general rains 'of October. The
short test of the four dry months last year ending at the
close of August was also amply fulfilled.
Dust in Wool
Dust is very objectionable in
wool. It not only detracts from
its appearance, but, what is more
important, it lowers the yield and
therefore the greasy value; and
the lower the greasy value the
lower will be the price per pound.
Dust has a very injurious effect
on the wool-fibre. Under the
microscope the wool-fibre is a
very delicate piece of construc-
tion. Round the outside of the
fibre are many thousands of
small scales, something like the
scales on a fish. If these are
injured, the manufacturing
quality of the wool is greatly
reduced, as an even yarn or
thread can’t be made when these
cells (forming the surface of the
fibre) are broken and torn.
Fibres are uneven in diameter;
therefore an uneven thread.
Dust can be controlled to a
certain extent by care and
thought at shearing-time andvalso
throughout the year.
1. —When mustering, sheep
should be allowed to spread out
as much as possible.
2. —When droving pick your
roads.
3. —Avoid yarding the sheep
too much.
4. —Water all yards, especially
at gateways and races.
J. S. BOARDMAN.
Spray-irrigation Plant
“Billjim”: Two important
points in choosing a spray-
irrigation plant—topography and
crop. If the land is gullied a
giant irrigation-system would be
easier to operate than a rotary or
rose-type sprinkler-plant.
Type of crop limits the range
of spray-plants; For instance, it
would be difficult to irrigate a


LIFEGUARD CIGARETTES
Obtain your supplies of good-
quality cigarettes—Cork or Plain
—priced at 80/- per 1,000.
Lifeguard Tobacco, Ltd.,
Box 51, P. 0., Chippendale, N.S.W.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
• (Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £16,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BW 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Qivee you the advantages ef sewerage me
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIBS
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage l»
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 25 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
-" -DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), Saunders House, 118
Wickham St., The Valley, Brisbane,
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Do. (S.A.), O.M.L. Build*
ing, King William St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & 00,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd, Raffles Place.
H em you a
616 farming
joblocfof
s >
• Bedrock economy.
• Absolute reliability.
• Develops maximum
power at low working
speeds.
• A full range of
''MATCHED - AFTER -
TEST IMPLEMENTS"
make it a Task Force
in Itself I
NT. 27.32
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield
Dlsfribufors and
Dealers everywhere.
,h. NUFFIELD
DIESEL TRACTOR
Basic Tractor with Heavy Duty Wheel Equipment
DOWN PAYMENTS FROM
£345
with generous Terms of Repayment
Your focal Nuffield Dealer will be glad to discuss
a trade-in of your present tractor as part-payment
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria:
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS
LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED.
Western Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
E
M-sJgr’
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
STRAUAj PTY. LTD.. A UNIT 0 F-~T HE BRITISH MOTO R CORPORAT 1 0N (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.-
tall crop with a rotary or rose-
type sprinkler.
Rate of application of the
three different systems is also
important, as it affects the
amount of other work that can
be done on the farm.
Most of the rose-type apply an
inch of water an hour; so if
2in. of water are put on in each
sprayline position there are only
two hours available to do other
work. Using a plant with a slow/
rate of application, about one-
third of an inch an hour (but
over a greater area), if you put
on 2in. of water at a time you
have six hours between shifts.
As the moves are less frequent,
these systems are also more suit-
able for spray-irrigation at night.
Because of the foregoing con-
siderations, other comparisons,
such as fuel and labor costs, and
the set-up of the various types,
do not weigh very heavily.
Asparagus-cutters
“Icinit”: Press reports of a
strike of asparagus-cutters at
Cowra (N.S.W.) mentioned that
the men are paid by the inch.
This measurement has nothing
to do with the length of aspara-
gus “spears” cut but refers to
the height of spears when
stacked —somewhat akin to the
measurement of wood by the
cord.
The cutters work in gangs of
six or seven, one acting as gang-
boss and another as “picker-up.”
As the cutters work along their
allotted rows they lay the spears
in small heaps. The picker-up
follows between the rows with
a horse-drawn asparagus-“cart,”
a small wooden skip of a
standard width of 30in. He
packs the spears into the cart in
tiers, and it is the height, in
inches, of these 30in.-wide tiers
which is the basis for payment.
Calculation is simplified by
having the carts built to a
standard height (in practice
about 27in.), and each cart holds
about six tiers. All earnings are
credited to the gang and then
divided equally among its mem-
bers, with allowance made for
any short time worked or
temporary absence.
Bean-weevil
“Sundowner”: Bean - weevil
quite commonly attacks beans in
field and store, but certain pro-
tective measures can be carried
out to remove the possibility.
Fumigate infested beans, using
carbon-bisulphide at loz. per
44gal. drum (one gal. per 1000
cubic feet), regardless of the
amount of beans in the sealed
container, for 48 hours.
Bags may be fumigated in the
same way, or dipped in boiling
water for five minutes. Clean
store-sheds and seal all cracks
that may harbor weevils. Pack
beans as soon as possible after
threshing, but before doing so
treat with 2 per cent. D.D.T. dust
at 2oz. per bushel.
Household Sump
“Quo Vadis”: Five years ago,
in an unsewered district in
Queensland, we made a waste-
water sump. It has served a
large household and looks good
for many years yet.
We sank at 4ft.-by-2ft. hole
(large enough to work in with
short-handled tools) through
surface clay, then shale; fine
sand was tapped at 20ft. We
went partly through the sand-
seam, then bedded-down a layer
of large stones. An old 4in. cast-
iron reticulation-pipe rested on
this foundation, and was packed
in place, right to ground-level,
with many-sized stones. A \\xn.
galvanised-iron feed-pipe was
elbowed into the cast-iron stand-
pipe. The top of the sump was
sheeted over with galvanised-
iron and then domed with fine
gravel.
The other end of the feed-pipe
was connected to an old three-
cell battery-box, which made an
ideal grease-trap. The cell-par-
titions were removed halfway
and a copper strainer, drilled
with iin. holes, was fitted in the
top of the box. The strainer
trapped the light, bulky waste
and heavy sludge fell down be-
tween the partitions. The only
maintenance on this job has been
to wash the strainer occasionally
and clean out the trap “once in
a blue moon.”
Even in the event of the main
stand-pipe becoming clogged
with fine residue at the bottom,
the soakage would still function,
because every 2ft. we had per-
forated the pipe with iin. holes,
right to ground-level. When
last inspected the pipe was clear,
apparently to the original depth.
In many country districts, of
course, it won’t be necessary to
dig as deep as we did; good
soakage may be found much
nearer the surface. But the basic
design should apply to almost
any type of country, and there’s
no doubt of its usefulness. The
hygienic disposal of bath-,
kitchenwaste-, laundry-water and
the like can be quite a problem
in the bush, and the tendency is
to improvise. Then, if anything
goes wrong, or if there is an in-
crease in numbers —these things
usually creep up on us —there’s
a messy job to be done, probably
when the time can be ill-
afforded. The above recipe
should cope with most
emergencies.
Crosscuts
i£ C.A.A.”: Contrasts in two
States: In S.A.’s Eyre Peninsula
and Murray Mallee, rabbits are
thick, despite myxomatosis; in
Victoria’s Sunraysia and north-
west Mallee districts (similar dry
localities to the S.A. provinces)
columns of newspapers are
actually calling for rabbits.
* * *
Some cases of heliotrope-
poisoning reported from various
central-western parts of N.S.W.
seem typical—fairly long period,
damage to liver, death. Sheep,
of course, will fatten on the stuff
with no immediate ill-effect, and
it has kept them alive in a
drought. Grazing heavily to keep
the fallows clean is a risky busi-
ness, though. At Parkes over a
period of four months 100 sheep
were lost from a mob of 700 two-
and four-tooth ewes.
* « *
Caprock grain-sorghum (a
variety introduced by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture)
reported to be doing well on
Guadalcanal.
Farm Hints
“M.G.”: If pulpy-kidney is
troublesome mortality-rate may
be reduced by dosing with 5 c.c.
anti-toxin under the skin. Mix-
ture is available from any
chemist. This treatment will
carry iambs over the danger
period of two to three weeks.
A more positive control is vac-
cination. If deaths occur under
six weeks of age vaccinate the
ewe six weeks before lambing
with the 5 c.c. anti-toxin and
again two weeks before lambing
with 10 c.c. These doses should
give the lamb immunity for four
to six weeks. Vaccinating the
lamb at marking will increase
immunity to 12 months.
“Color”; Don’t incubate
brown-shelled eggs with white
ones, as this results in irregular
hatching. Generally brown
shells take up to as much as 14
hours longer to hatch. This is
due to slower evaporation of the
moisture-content caused by the
pigmentation.
“Ann”: The farm record-
book is not only the chronicle
of the commercial activities of
the farmer, it is also an
important item in effecting
property sales. Many proposi-
tions have been clinched on its
faithful portrayal of the farm’s
progress or decline.
“Steady”: In testing incubator-
eggs be careful not to bump or
turn them quickly. This could
result in one or more of the
blood-vessels attached to, or in
the process of becoming
attached to, the embryo
becoming torn and killing
germination. If proving with a
lamp, do not expose the eggs to
undue heat.


COVENTRY CLIMAX
g Industrial Engine Unit
ẃ
4 Cyl. Petrol Engine,
governed range 2000-
2400 r.p.m. develops
approx. 12 h.p., water-
cooled with radiator and
fan, impulse magneto.
Complete with tools,
spares and instruction
book— £l2O.
We have one of these in
stock built into a portable
2in. Centrifugal pumping
unit suitable for fire-
fighting purposes or
agricultural spraying—
£lBo.
Exempt from Sales Tax if for home lighting or
agricultural use.
HARDMAN & HALL
161 Missenden Road, Newtown, Sydney. LA3597.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..'
ADDRESS
ẅ
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
(Please add exchange to country cheques)
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD
STRUAN ROBERTSON, NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLAS*-
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Stefanik raised quizzical eye-
brows.
“We could, perhaps,” he said,
“turn him over to Mr. Kraft-
mann, who is the magician at
making change the minds of
men.”
Alec and Johnny grinned.
Johnny let go a couple of vin-
dictive jabs with his fists.
“The silo,” he muttered be-
tween his teeth ; “how I’d like
to have that swine in the silo!”
“You know,” said Alec, his
head cocked thoughtfully on one
side, “you might have the right
idea there.” -
“I’ll help to shove him in the
silo,” Johhny volunteered en-
thusiastically. “Whatever you
do, don’t do me out of that
pleasure.”
Stefanik smiled indulgently.
“Perhaps a little more subtle-
ness would be better. I can
assure you with much sincerity
that it is most demoralising to
walk eagerly and unwittingly
into thp prison.”
He turned to Johnny.
“But you may assist in this
way. You might like to be the
one to go into the silo with him
and wear down his resistance
with boring conversation.”
He winked at Alec and
laughed. But Johnny stiffened
his athletic body.
“I don’t think it would be
safe,” he warned them. “I don’t
think it would be safe. I doubt
if more than one of us would
come out alive.”
“Well, that would be one way
of settling with Breyley,” said
Alec with a chuckle.
Viki’s flat was at Pott’s Point,
and if not Pott’s Point then cer-
tainly at King’s Cross, though
through some mysterious P.M.G.
circumstance, very annoying to
Viki, letters had to be addressed
to undistinguished Elizabeth
Bay. It was not as luxurious as
Breyley had expected. Not that
he could recall any specific, de-
tectable lie in Viki’s description.
Her enthusiasm had perhaps led
her to say “lovely” and “won-
derful” when an ordinary
bucolic Australian would have
said “not bad.”
It was, in fact, a bedroom and
a sitting-dining-room with a
cooking-annexe; “annexe” being
a favorable term for a corner
partly curtained-off from the
sitting-dining-room.
“I only sleep here,” Viki
divined his disappointment. “I’m
away all day and until late most
nights, so why should I pay a
high rent for something I hardly
use? I can’t look at it while
I’m asleep, can I?”
She soon had a couple of
bottles of beer on the table, some
savory-biscuits and some tasty
cheese.
“No butter,” she complained.
“There! Aren’t I awful, invit-
ing you to my flat and then hav-
ing no butter.” She watched
Breyley watching her, and obvi-
ously not thinking about butter.
“Now, my efficient sister Rhoda
would never be without butter
when she had visitors. If by any
inconceivable chance she forgot
to buy any she’d rush out of the
house, milk a cow, separate the
cream and churn it.
“She’s efficient like you ; that’s
why you want to marry her. You
wouldn’t want to marry me,
would you? No, don’t get up;
it’s only a hypothetical question.
We’ve got business to discuss, so
it’s no use getting things com-
plicated with other things.”
She smiled archly; business
was never more promisingly put
before pleasure.
“As a matter of fact” —this
was Breyley’s declaration of
both faith and sincerity—“l’ve
got some very urgent business to
discuss with you.”
“And me with you,” Viki in-
terrupted him. “But, by hell, I’ve
got to get these tight new shoes
off before I listen to another
word.”
She soon returned barelegged,
in slippers.
“Now go on, Gregory.”
“As a matter of fact, if you’re
prepared to co-operate with me,
Viki, we could get hold of a lot
of valuable property.”
“Money?” Viki demanded.
“Not much money immedi-
ately, but in two or three years,
yes ; a lot of money.”
“I could make it a lot quicker
than that, Gregory. Specially if
I had you to help me. I bal-
anced my accounts today ; got
nearly all the pupils to pay up
to the mark, and paid my staff
and rent and adverts. And what
do you think I had over after
operating only about a month?”
She paused expectantly as
though he would never guess,
then exclaimed excitedly: “A
whole cigar-box full of money! ”
Breyley stared at her, shocked
and shattered.
“A whole cigar-box,” he said
slowly, as if this were truly in-
credible financing. “You make
your father’s methods look
scientific. What’s in the cigar-
box? Pennies, or shillings, or
pound-notes, or what?”
“Oh, all sorts. Even some
fivers and tenners.” Viki
jumped up. “I’ll show you.”
She picked up the handbag
she had dropped on a chair,
pulled out a cigar-box and
turned it upside-down over the
table. Breyley grabbed a couple
of coins that started to wheel off
the table, took a quick glance at
the disorderly pile and said:
“Four hundred and six pounds,
six and eleven.”
“You’re only guessing,” she
accused him.
“All right, we’ll count it the
slow way.”
But it came to the same
amount.
“Gee, you’re wonderful,
Gregory. You must have an
absolute gift for money; just
like some men have for sing-
ing.”
“It’s you that’s wonderful,”
Breyley said to her reverently.
“Here, when you’re starting a
new enterprise, when anyone
else would be happy to be break-
ing even, you’re making over a
hundred pounds a week.”
“I could double it,” she looked
at him in rapt excitement. “I
could treble it. I could four, five,
sextuple it, if I could only keep
the business end of it in order.
If only you’d come into it, we
could make ten times as much.
This city is full of girls and men
who want to be artists, and all
we need is a big enough
organisation to take their money
off them.”
She turned to Breyley, her face
glowing:
“Doesn’t that inspire you,
Gregory? The glorious art of
music to make you feel noble,
and heaps of money to make
you feel happy. And now and
then a real star to give you
fame. And if we put enough
raw material through the
machine we’re bound to get a
few stars, by the law of aver-
ages.”
“It sounds pretty wonderful,
Viki.” Breyley was surprised to
notice a catch in his voice.
“All I can say as an outsider
who hasn’t investigated the game
is that the possibilities seem
fine. The only thing I could
query is the human element.
Say, now, that all of a sudden
everybody gave up wanting to
learn singing? Couldn’t it be
just as chancy as a shopkeeper
loading up with women’s fashion
lines? I’ve seen fellows on top
of the world with that, and next
year they’re right out of busi-
ness.”
Viki shook her head. “Never,
never. It’s getting better every
day; they see it in films and
radio and soon it will be in tele-
vision. They’ll be wilder to be
in on it than they ever were
before.”
“Still,” Breyley said, “I want
you to listen to my proposition,
too. It’s solid. It’s about land
and sheep and farm-buildings.
You can have wars and revolu-
tions and atom-bombs, and they
are still sound.”
“Go on,” Viki said, sitting up
dutifully in a corner of the
lounge.
{To he continued)
The people of Carmidale
began to mutter darkly. A joke
was a joke, they said. They had
had enough of the signwriter’s
humor. If he thought that he
could leave one of Mr.
Blanowski’s walls with “Some-
thing to Growl About” written
all over it, he had another think
coming.
Stan Green muttered back at
them. It was his building, wasn't
it?
Talk reached fever-pitch. Stan
Green had never been a happier
man. He had the whole town on
toast for his big surprise.
The following morning he was
up before daybreak and painting
furiously in the first grey light of
dawn. Where the rooster had
been he painted a purple dog.
And under the words “Something
to Growl About” he painted a
further purple legend; They’ve
forgotten my Blanowski’s
Biscuits!
CARMIDALE people
applauded wildly. They
shouted Stan Green in the bar
until he was too drunk to stand.
Mr. Blanowski was very
pleased, and Stan Green forgave
him everything. He even forgave
the townspeople for forgetting to
volunteer to pay him for his
work, because of the pleasure he
got out of admiring it.
Blanowski’s Animal Foods
were a great success. Mr.
Blanowski now makes biscuits
containing all the vitamins of the
alphabet. His latest biscuits also
contain chlorophyll to remove
offensive doggy odors and are
colored a particularly vivid and
unpleasant green. As far as I
know the dogs don’t mind, and
when I mentioned the color to
Mr. Blanowski he said he didn’t
mind either, as he himself was
color-blind. Not that he had
ever let it be an obstacle, he
added. He had, he said, made a
careful study of color from
books, and he knew which ones
gave the greatest effect on the
eye.
No passenger on the train
going to Carmidale could ever
doubt his statement. Mr.
Blanowski also added that he
was very happy in Carmidale
now, and had settled down and
was happily married with a
family. His wife was a Carmi-
dale girl who used to pack dog-
biscuits for him.
“Of course things are not the
same as they were,” he said.
“With this oil boom in the West
we get a lot of foreigners coming
here now. Mind you. I’ve
nothing against them, but you
have to watch them. They get
up to sharp practices and the
way they live, just off the smell of
an oily rag, you have to watch
they don’t undersell you and ruin
your livelihood.”
I realised that Mr. Blanowski’s
assimilation was complete.
able to enjoy the luxury of a
single engagement. Morning,
afternoon and night assignments
for the one man were not excep-
tional when there was a heavy
book. One of our best men, a
great worker, had a full hand of
this sort and, unhappily, the
night job was to report the Agri-
cultural Society’s wine-judging.
Our man had a hurried
luncheon, no dinner and tasted
the exhibits too well.
His copy was all right, but
when he returned to the office
he ran into the business-mana-
ger, who reported him to the
board. The board reduced his
salary of £4 a week by £l. This
would have been bad enough
for one week or two, but it was
continued for more than a
month. Then the reporting staff
called a meeting outside the
office and invited me to attend,
I took no part in the discus-
sions, nor was I asked to sub-
scribe my name to the written
demand that the deduction of
salary cease.
It became known that I had
attended the meeting, and Blun-
dell asked me whether I thought
it proper that I, as editor, should
associate myself actively with
the staff’s protest. I pointed out
that although I had been doing
the editor’s work (as well as my
own) for months, I had neither
the title nor the salary of the
position. Acknowledging that
my action may have been un-
wise, I said that I considered the
penalty imposed for what was
not a really serious fault was
damnably unjust. The £1 a week
was restored, but there was
another black mark for me.
Things came to a head when
Mr. Wedd resigned ; his eyesight
had deteriorated seriously and
his health generally was bad. I
was staggered by a written noti-
fication from the board that
Kneebone was to be editor and
I was to continue as associate.
“Not in your life,” I said to
myself, and applied immediately
for three weeks’ leave. I had
had no holiday for three years,
and my nerves were a bit jumpy.
The board’s reply that a doc-
tor’s certificate was required was
the last straw, and determined
me to say goodbye and the rest
of Tt to the “Herald.” I was
fortified to some extent by the
offer of the position of leader-
writer on the “West Australian.”
Kneebone came to me to say
that he had not sought the posi-
tion. An approach of another
kind was from the Father of the
Chapel. He told me that the
companionship had met and re-
solved that, as I had done the
editor’s job for months, I should
have the position. “I am author-
ised to tell you,” he concluded,
“that the mechanical staff will
walk out if you say the word.”
I was moved and grateful; but I
said I’d had enough and didn’t
care anyway. I had a holiday
in Sydney before accepting the
offer from Perth.
I did not tell the board that
I was leaving for ever ; but being
asked to come to the office to
receive a presentation from my
old staff I encountered the
manager, who asked me when
I was resuming. “Never,” I re-
plied bluntly. “I would like to
tell the board that the main
difference between them and the
capitalist they have hired me to
grind at for the last three years
is that they haven’t his brains or
his manners.”
With those few words I
finished with Labor journalism.


THE WILDER SHORES OF
LOVE By Lesley Blanch
The tempestuous love stories of tour
19th century European women who
found in the East the perfect sur-
roundings for their unusual dreams
of romance. All of them, in their
different ways, used love as a means of
individual expression, and found ful-
filment on wilder Eastern shores.
Ulus. 25/- (post 1/1).
THE AMAZING MR. DOO-
LITTLE By Quentin Reynolds
Splendidly told by this famous author,
the exploits of Lieutenant General
James Doolittle make exciting reading.
Here is a vivid portrait of the dare-
devil pilot of the ’2o’s, first man to
span the American continent and loop
me loop inside out, and leader of the
suicide bombing on Tokyo.
18/- (post HA.)
Write, ’phone or call in for these, and all the boohs you want to . • .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney : ; 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
PUBLISHED THIS WEEK
DANGER PATROL By Leslie rees
WILD BROTHER By mary patchett
TURKEY AND PARTNERS .... By RAY HARRIS
DON’T SLIP, DELANEY By bant singer
COLLI NS
The Esquire Treasury
Edited by Arnold Gingrich
This sumptuous volume of 656 pages contains the best of
twenty years of “Esquire.” 32 pages of cartoons and photo-
graphs and 73 stories, articles and features.
At all booksellers - 207-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON ; : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
the end of the 1914-1918 war, and Fanny,
the heroine of the early book, is engaged
in that (at the time) revolutionary occu-
pation. Each book, too, is about feminine
love.
Fanny’s idyll in The Happy Foreigner
is described by Calder-Marshall as being
“as lovely, fresh and startling as a snow-
drop.” The girl and a young French
officer manage to wrest a relationship of
beauty and value for each of them from
the shattered landscape and barrack con-
ditions against which they meet. The
girl early realises that their situation is
impermanent—but that does riot make it
any the less real. Indeed, as Marshall
suggests in a particularly interesting
comparison with Hemingway’s Farewell
to Arms, Enid Bagnold is the “tougher”
writer, for Hemingway “was forced to
kill his heroine off. He gave the novel
in consequence a heroic facade, an
appearance of tragic strength which
masked his weakness.” But Miss Bagnold
“has the taste and judgment not to pre-
tend that it [early love] is full spring or
could be high summer.”
Marshall also makes the point that, for
us. The Happy Foreigner seems, para-
doxically, far more contemporary than
The Squire written so much later. The
squire is a woman in her early forties,
living in a village home with her four
children and a full retinue of servants
from butler down. As the book opens
she is expecting at any time to be confined
of her fifth child, who Will almost
certainly be her last. Her husband is on
an overseas business trip and she is
responsible for the smooth running of
her large domestic establishment.
For “the squire” love is an intricate
thing—bound up with children (of whom
Enid Bagnold writes superlatively well),
and with love for her husband as well as
for long-past but remembered loves. As
she stands she can say:
“I, too, am saying farewell to sex. I,
too, am looking to a future in which I
shall find again what life is made of, bare
life, without mirage, without props. . .”
But in middle age she harks back to
her girlhood, to Fanny perhaps; speak-
ing of a woman who “discarded” a man:
“The first time I did that I grew up. I
stopped a love affair in full flight and went
away, because I wanted myself for myself.
I never was the same afterwards. It de-
veloped the male in me, the choosing
streak in me. There is love with tenderness
and there is love without tenderness. . .
I watch my husband and my children . . .
and in their situation 1 see my own. .
Yet, in many ways this most moving
and mature piece of writing is indeed a
“period piece,” and in some respects
one finds its philosophy irritating and
unsatisfactory. Long dialogues between
“the squire” and her midwife are quite
opposed to present-day theory of
psychological needs and development of
young babies, and, moreover, the entire
household background is completely
alien to present domestic reality in
general, either in England or anywhere
else. To be fair, however, one admits
to having read the book with unqualified
enthusiasm when it was first published.
Space-ships
In Flying Saucers on the Moon (Peter
Owen), Harold T. Wilkins, who has
written books on treasure-hunts, war-
mysteries, secret cities of ancient South
America, etc., collects a huge pile of in-
formation on flying-saucers; indeed, his
book must summarise all available in-
formation, with an appendix to bring it
up to date of printing, with the exception
of whatever may have been withheld
from him by Government departments
nor is he one to minimise the possible
importance of such “secrets.”
Altogether his book has the dissatis-
fying quality of Yeats’s A Vision, though
of course at a bottom rung of this
literary ladder, where all kinds of
ghostly intelligences are at work, but
where the ordinary vulgar seeker after
authority may look a long time before
finding, in a footnote, the news that it
was all communicated to Yeats in a dream
by some Universal Instructors: graphs,
systems of planetary character-reading,
everything. Mr. Wilkins makes no such
demand on our faith ; with him, observed
facts become theories, theories become
possibilities, possibilities whirl into a
spiral which lands on the water of a
remote bay like two saucers pressed
together, and from which emerge curious
little men.
As to the facts: Mr. Wilkins “happens
to know” that two British pilots were,
followed about by balls, and saw “balls
of blazing light flying in precise forma-
tion,” and reported them to Intelligence.
Japanese and American airmen saw
similar marvels during World War 11.
Then there is the mile-long space-ship,
or space-liner—but perhaps a paragraph
of Mr. Wilkins will best convey the
degree of solidity and exactitude
inherent in his research:
One must, however, make quite clear
that the type of flying saucer which appar-
ently can become alternately visible and
invisible is only one of about a score of
these mysterious forms. Among the other
types are some which appear to belong to
ah order of matter like our own. One of
them, possibly a mammoth carrier, or space-
ship which, as photographs show, may dis-
charge satellite disks within our own atmo-
sphere, is both weird in form and of fan-
tastic size. I have reason to suppose that
this unknown type is definitely hostile to
the earth. Reason based on evidence!
There is a third type, taking the form of a
vertical column of light, which has been
seen, in England, to discharge a ball of red
fire. It has produced serious terrestrial
fires. Still another type observed on the
radarscope, in eastern U.S.A., and sub-
jected to radio-theodolite observations and
to ballistical calculation, astounded the
staff of an American naval station. They
found that not only did it travel at a fan-
tastic speed, but that it was more than a
mile long. The reader may shrug his
shoulders, but he should note that these
calculations are not the work of hack
writers of scientific fiction fantasy, nor any
imagination of mine
And so on to “a vast bat-like machine”
seen by sixteen people in San Diego,
California, in 1946 ; and a “cigar-shaped
craft” seen by Miss Ella Young, an
authoress, and the question, “Have the
‘saucer-men’ terrestrial spies?” because
a stranger calls upon Mr. Dahl (who saw
“six very large doughnut - shaped
machines” hovering over Puget Sound,
one of which “hailed metal on him and
those on his launch”), and tells him,
“You have seen what you ought not to
have seen!” Then we come to Captain
Thos. F. Mantell of Kentucky, whose
plane exploded in mid-air while he was
chasing a “cosmic machine” 15,000 feet
long.
Several of Mr. Wilkins’s instances
come from Australia; and when he
applied through an Australian friend to
the R.A.A.F. for confirmation of news
that they had “cordoned off” an area
of Australian desert to discover whether
it was a landing-ground for flying-
saucers, our Air Force replied, “We have
no comment to make.” Naturally, this
nettled so keen a follower of truth as
Mr. Wilkins:
So? My reply is; “Then have you some-
thing you wish to hide from the public,
that is not concerned with security
matters?”
Mr. Wilkins does not confine himself
to recent manifestations; his belief is
that whatever has been going on has
been going on for a long time; and he
has considerably enhanced the value of
his book as a complete coverage by
raking through the old chroniclers for
astronomical marvels; the observations
of Julius Obsequens, for instance, on
what happened in 222 b.c. ; also “Lycos-
then.es” ; also the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle,
the Annals of Ulster, Bermondsey and
Dunstable; the Chronican Scotorum;
and a great many more such authorities,
some of which demonstrate that modern
movies and Cecil B. de Mille are only
ersatz :
a.d. 1360: “In summer time, in flat and
deserted places in England and France, in
this year, many often saw appear suddenly
two towers from which, high in the sky,
two large armies went forth, one ,of which
was crowned with a warlike sign, and the
other clothed in black. They met, and the
soldiers overcame them in black, and a
second time, the warriors overcame the
black tower, and the whole vanished.
Later chapters deal with observations
of the moon, Mars and Venus, and in
what circumstances life and space-ships
might be found there; and there are
some ten reproductions of photographs,
some definitely of space-ships, flying-
saucers and space craft; others only of
“unidentified objects.”
Reviewed Briefly
The Violent Wedding: Robert Lowry
(Arthur Barker). An artist, female,
thirtyish, beautiful, disillusioned, yearns
for life in its raw, crude, vital, etc., mani-
festations. She meets a Negro boxer and
sees him as “a black angel of death, a
gliding and dancing statue who made
blood and pain beautiful” and—some-
what confusedly—as life, courage, art,
gracefully defeating insensate forces.
Although he assures her he is only inter-
ested in the dollars. She falls in love
with him, interferes with his training, and
paints a picture—a sort of surrealist por-
trait —which scares her lover. Just when
she has rediscovered her art (whatever
the boxer’s opinion of it) she is disillu-
sioned afresh after seeing her lover kill a
man in the ring, and after being raped
by him. Life, in fact, is a little too raw,
crude, etc., and in an excess of disgust
she dies. This has its effect on the Negro,
who becomes champion, and develops
odd symptoms of remorse. This could
have been a much better book than it is.
Gymnasium scenes, Harlem, and a
glimpse of a sporting-writer are good, in
part. But it is made on the tough-and-
mush recipe. Published last year (pre-
sumably in America) and reprinted in the
U.K. this year it is not, perhaps, a happy
sample of that transatlantic diffusion of
culture about which one hears so much.
It carries the warning that “characters
and events in this story may seem familiar
to a lot of people. Nevertheless, both
are fictitious, and any resemblance is
purely coincidental.” Nevertheless, the
purely boxing analogies—the weight-
division ; the death of an opponent and
the repartee with the coroner; the fight
with the.champion —are rather striking.
* * * *
Jumping Joan: C. H. B. Kitchin
(Seeker and Warburg). Disappointing
and poorly written collection of short
stories relying heavily upon queer super-
natural tricks to mask deficiencies in
thought and content. A Ronald Seaxle
bookjacket led one to expert something
better than this.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 302
Across
I —Bradman often had to do this
dramatist. (10)
s—Bludgeon5 —Bludgeon came with this spice.
(4)
7 Bit of a bounder. (3)
8 — Plane production by nothing but
the son of a Welshman as a
prelude to the razor. (7-5)
10 —Unlettered crook to say it again.
(10)
14 — Italian count off the continuance
as delicate shading of expression.
(6)
15 — Snap out of it! (6)
17 — Tidier consumer of the North?
(6) ■ V,
18— Talk by the Spanish Jesuit who
attempted to assassinate Henry
IV of France? (6)
22 Adorer hiding a couple in a
patched-up way. (4, 6)
23 — Waddy with small change stand-
ing to credit for laundry equip-
ment. (6-5)
25 — Animal magnums containing
neither parent nor manuscript.
(3)
26 Only a mile for a Chinese going
to.Maoriland city in Austria for
Mozart’s 36th symphony. (4)
27 — The Roman thus taking silk bade
to a boy having Sid’s tickle
named with the other crook.
(4-6)
Down
1 — Fruit by an English film-actress.
2 An* election on Craig is quite
the opposite of Dionysian. (Hi)
3 if a car is so like Livingstone
when Stanley found, him, or the
Mile or Algiers or Durban. (2, 6)
4 Your French weight. (3)
5 Club makes a progenitor bash-
6 An instrument for fastening a
picture of a crescent moon to a
lesser light? (5)
8 — Utterly satisfied with State aid.
(8)
9 Central Winton. (4)
11— Westlake discrepancies when our
No. 301 appeared. (4, 4)
12— Fielding appreciated a water-
supply and what the catchment
did for the water-supply. (4-6)
13 — Minced footballer seen behind the
main features of a film. (10)
16 —Pink elephants attend those who
are mad with this sea. (3, 5)
19— Whoever runs the place is torn
with sobs. (4)
20— Loincloth with a torrid middle.
(5)
21 —What revolutions are expected
from extreme letters written in
precious stone to get peace in
Spain. (5)
24—Abyssinian vizier. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 301


DUTY
Machine Tools
for IMMEDIATE Delivery
MARS 14iin.
ALL GEARED
HEAD LATHE
USED BY AUSTRALIA'S
LARGEST MINING
CONCERNS
The unique lathe bed design of this unit takes the swarf away from the operator, thus reducing non-producing
periods to a minimum. The 5 ft. swing and a 30in. wide bed provide an extremely high operational capacity. The
lathe is fitted with a force feed and magnetic filtered lubrication system.
MARS 10J/11 ALL GEARED HEAD, S.S. & S.c. LATHE
Gap bed, hollow spindle, available to 12 ft. centres. Guaranteed accuracy. Fitted with oil immersed multi-disc
driving clutches, force feed lubrication, automatic brake system, remote control. Manufactured of Meehanite
Castings produced in Mars Laboratory-controlled Meehanite Foundry.
Also Mars 10-1/11 all geared head lathe model (A), with sft. 3in. between Centres. These lathes are capable of
tremendous cutting power and capacity. You are invited to see them demonstrated at any time at our foundry.
*■**
USED THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA'S SUGAR
INDUSTRY
MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLER
A fine and modern milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and outstanding quality.
Rapid power traverse, all movements. Wide range of speeds and feeds. Built in electrics.
Schlesinger Standards of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
MARS MACHINE TOOLS USED BY AUSTRALIA'S LEADING INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING
ORGANISATIONS-THEY'RE WORTHWHILE TOOLS WITH A WORTHWHILE GUARANTEE
m
m
A
m
m
&
m
a
i&to
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd.. Perth. S.A.; W. H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street, Adelaide. Vic.: Hubert Osborne
Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. N.S.W. and Queensland: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty Ltd., Brisbane.
Tas.: Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins Street, Hobart. India, Bombay Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ah Chambers, Port Bombay.
Philippines: The Earnshaws Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. ik O’S. Advcru
