

THE HOUSE
df
OF SEPPELT
PRODUCERS OF
EXTRA DRY SOLERO
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
• ROYAL PURPLE PARA
• GREAT WESTERN CHAMPAGNE
The Bulletin
SUNSET ON AN EMPIRE? -page 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 75~N0. 3893
Wednesday, September 22, 1954
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
BATTLE ANGER AND STORM FURY
HAVE FAILED TO SUBDUE
CORFE CASTLE
THE extensive ruins of Corfe Castle occupy
the summit of an isolated hill near
Swanage in Dorset, and for over three hundred
years its massive walls have withstood time
and the elements. Before its destruction by
Parliamentary forces in 1646 this great castle
was one of the strongest and most important
fortifications in Britain. Although the existing
castle dates mainly from the Norman period it
stands upon the site of a Saxon stronghold of
Kjng Edgar (950 a.d.). At that time it was
the centre of a royal hunting ground and it
was there that King Edward was murdered by
his stepmother, Elfrida, in 979.
Corfe Castle was a favourite residence of
King John and owing to its almost impregnable
strength he deposited there for safe keeping
the royal regalia. From earliest times the castle
served as a State prison and traces of some of
the dungeons can still be seen; they recall the
cruelty of a King who, at the beginning of the
‘l3th century, confined twenty-two French
prisoners there and allowed them to starve to
death. There, also, he imprisoned his niece,
Eleanor, and two daughters of the Scottish
king, sent to him as hostages.
In 1326 Edward II was imprisoned there by
Queen Isabella and her paramour,. Roger
Mortimer, before they murdered him at
Berkeley Castle. Although associated with
suffering, cruelty and violence, Corfe Castle
is also associated with the outstanding forti-
tude of a woman —Lady Bankes, who organised
the defence of the fortress against the Parlia-
mentarians in 1643. The defenders held out
during the siege which lasted six weeks against
a force of six hundred. Three years later the
castle was again besieged but this time treachery
achieved what force had previously failed to
accomplish. An officer of the garrison admitted
the enemy in disguise under the pretence of
being a reinforcement. The defenders were
forced to surrender and the castle was plundered.
Following its capture, Parliament ordered the
destruction of Corfe Castle; the towers were
undermined and large quantities of gunpowder
were used for months in an effort to demolish
the stronghold. The immense walls, twenty-
seven feet thick in some places, withstood their
efforts and they still stand today in splendid
isolation, a monument to the skill of the castle
builders, and a reminder of the fury of the
Civil War.


TO BE PUBLISHED ON OCTOBER 2nd.
SARA DANE
By CATHERINE GASKIN
A Major Historical Novel of Australia
COLLINS
THE FALL OF A TITAN
by Igor Gouzenko
This former Soviet cipher clerk, who
disclosed a spy-network in Canada In
1945, has written a powerful novel,
reminiscent of Tolstoy and Dostoievsky,
built around the last years of revolu-
tionary writer Maxim Gorky, who re-
turned to find his beliefs sullied by
the brutal tyranny which they
Invoked, and reveals life in Russia as
it really is.
18/9 (post 9d.)
BEYOND THE IRON
CURTAIN
by Sir David Kelly, G.C.M.G., M.C.
A more lucid, informed and np-to-date
estimate of the power and prospects
of the U.S.S.R. would be difficult to
find. Sir David Kelly was Ambassador
in Moscow from 1949-51 and his book
Is an acute study of Russian problems,
consisting of important articles
published in the Sunday Times up to
January, 1954.
7/6 (post 5d.)
Write, >phone or call in for these, and all the books you scant to . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Casllereagh St., Sydney t ; 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
The Red Page
AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
The Red Page of 25/8/’54 reviewed
Contango Day, by an Australian woman,
Barbara Jefferis; a novel, very concise
in its genre, which gives one of the most
able and masterly descriptions of a form
of insanity I have seen in fiction.
The R.P. review found that Barbara
Jefferis “peels off layer after layer .to
reveal the true inwardness of the central
character,” and that “this is by no means
a sordid psychological work in the quasi-
psychoanalytic manner,” but it did not
seem to me to make sufficiently plain
exactly how good a book it is—a well-
written novel of excellent construction.
It interests me that a novel set in
Sydney, as this is, does not obtrude its
landscape, but lives witMn it. Neither
does it beg the question of how much of
“abnormal” human action and belief an
Australian novel should contain in tMs
day and age. We live in a time not
only of the atom-bomb and Iron Curtain
secrecy—two phenomena which Barbara
Jefferis’s crazed heroine uses to strengthen
her pathetic delusions —but in a time of
mental strain and breakdown perhaps
unparalleled in history. Statistics of the
percentage of us who will spend a part of
our lives either in mental hospitals or
undergoing treatment for nervous condi-
tions are frightemng. We hear almost
daily of appalling teenage murders com-
mitted not by senseless morons, but by
intelligent youngsters from apparently
good homes.
Miss Jefferis’s deluded Miss Doxy hap-
pened to harm, in the end, only herself.
Other Miss (or Mr.) Doxys—the disease
they suffer from is called paranoia—
are less considerate. They fear and then
hate their families or friends for unreal
reasons which seem quite logical to them.
They hug their secret feelings and often
act in secret —writing poison-pen letters,
spreading malicious rumors. Sometimes
they murder ; sometimes they believe
themselves great or famous.
In a series of flashbacks, Contango Day
tells of Miss Doxy’s miserable childhood.
Her wealthy, drunken, immoral father
made her his favorite. She believed that
he could not do or say wrong. First she
hated her mother and brother when they
criticised Papa, and then persuaded her-
self that Mama was mad. Mama pur-
posely (if subconsciously) misunderstood
events which even in her euphemistic
.Victorian childhood she should have com-
prehended. When Papa seduced the
governess it was only Mama’s “madness”
that procured the girl’s dismissal. Papa
at last sired a child on his son’s girl-
friend, and the girl’s father, to the satis-
faction of everyone (except the court,
which had things hushed up for it, and
of Miss Doxy, who would not believe
it), killed Papa. Miss Doxy believed that
Ted, her brother, was a parricide.
Then, to justify Papa’s often-reiterated
statements that she was the only one of
Ms children who would amount to any-
thing, Miss D. spent her adult life con-
vincing herself that she was truly entrusted
with highly important secrets. She
believed that the quite ordinary files in
the office where she worked were
sought by spies. Her employers thought
her eccentric and none of her friends
realised how false her statements were.
They supposed, as these days one might.
that her firm was indeed engaged on
something very hush-hush. They thought
it a pity that anyone as obviously tired
and ageing as she should still be so
indispensable, but they did not disbelieve
her.
This is the sort of convincing system
of delusions which makes paranoia and
its sufferers a disease and its victims
that need to be understood and pitied.
Miss Doxy ended by destroying herself.
An office fire led to a situation in which
she came too perilously near to realising
that her job was very commonplace—she
had let Papa down. It is not really funny
when people imagine themselves victims
of strange conspiracies or disproportion-
ately grand—when they suspect their
associates or loved ones of deceit. When
an Australian novelist like Barbara
Jefferis can so well describe a sickness of
our age (even if the book is published
overseas), let us give her the praise she
deserves.
N. K.
New Paperbacks
Collins introduce a new series of cheap
books, their Fontana Books, with three
reasonable prices based on (3s.,
4s. 6d., and 65.) and with 36 titles avail-
able so far. The contents are excellent
value for anyone’s money, but backs
break easily, allowing pages and covers
to become detached, and each of the three
books seen by this reader has printing
errors, a fault particularly noticeable in
English Saga, a reprint of Arthur
Bryant’s fine survey of English social
history, 1840-1940.
Thus, speaking of the poverty of some
Londoners in the 19th century, and of
the dreadful “flophouses” where they
slept, Bryant is printed as saying “They
were not merely congratulated in the
darkest London of Charles Booth’s later
survey,” the right word, of course, being
“congregated.” There are many other
similar instances, including one in the
first paragraph of the introduction.
But the book itself is splendid—com-
prehensive and well-written; rich in
original analogy and wasting no time in
explaining in detail matters wMch, if the
reader has forgotten his school history,
can easily be found described fully in
duller works of reference.
The other two books included in this
sample are novels: Yeoman’s Hospital,
by Helen Ashton, herself a doctor, which
presents a lifelike picture of the organisa-
tion and everyday activity of a large
county hospital. Most Australian hospi-
tals are run on a very similar pattern to
Yeoman’s, and the book therefore has
an interest far wider than one might sup-
pose of a description of such a typically
British institution. The author excels in
depiction of character and incident, as
does Winifred Holtby, whose massive
regional novel. South Riding, will impress
people who have never read it, and re-
impress those who can now refresh their
memories of it.
Miss Holtby used literally scores of
characters to delineate her imaginary
region of Yorkshire, and not one of them
remains misty or vaguely seen. Each
section of the book is introduced by some
item on the agenda or some resolution
of either the South Riding County
Council or one or other of the local insti-
tutions. Running through it all axe a
number of plots and themes which con-
stantly interrelate either in co-operation
or conflict, the whole adding up to what
will surely seem to future judges one of
the most interesting English novels of the
first half of this century.
Ballet in Black
There are places in Europe where one
can receive a charge of Mstory, like an
electric-shock. It is everywhere, in faces,
topography, newspapers, the idiom of
living. It broods in the heavens and
shines on water and glares from stone.
Too much of it can be depressing —a
sensation of sinking in the dust of a
thousand years, crushed by a million
monuments. But from such violent
stimuli one gets an impression of Europe
as an organism: of the interaction of
idea and action: of a ballet of effects
and causes dancing for ever on a narrow
European stage.
One gets something of this impression
from Ramon J. Sender’s The Affable
Hangman (Jonathan Cape: Australasian
Publishing Co.). The book opens with
a cruel and brilliant picture of the gar-
rotting of four criminals in Franco’s
Spain, seen through the eyes of a news-
paperman—an “official witness” —who, at
the beginning and end of the novel, is
the narrator. The rest, the middle bulk,
is the personal story of the hangman,
Ramiro Vallemediano, in the third per-
son. The writing is nervous, the form is
complicated but controlled; a sMftmg
pattern of realism and fantasy, satire
and philosophy, freezing into the mask
of the hangman.
Not, as it happens, a mask of cloth
and leather, whjch Ramiro and his col-
league do not wear. They wear striped
pants. Black coats are folded over a
chair, silver cuff-links jingle as they
potter around the upright post to which
is clamped the terrible gear. But, since
all mankind wears a mask, it follows
that a hangman needs a particularly
adamant one —since, as Federica Blanca,
the daughter of Ramiro’s tutor, the old
hangman, says, in effect, people are un-
kind. Early in his apprenticeship
Ramiro detects a change in the face in
his mirror, a blurring and coarsening of
features, an “animality.”
The heavy old man takes Ramiro home
as a boarder. Federica Blanca is 14 or
15, and hates her father, dreams of
marrying someone of superior social
station. Her mother. Dona Tadea, is
brisk and sentimental. They lead a
lonely life. For all Federica Blanca’s
shame at her father’s trade, her life is
saturated by it. When she plays cards she
exclaims “Curse your wicked iron
collar!” a hangman’s oath and
blushes, glancing at Ramiro. The old
man attends a conference of hangmen,
and in his absence sentimental Doila
Tadea arranges for them to have a
“honeymoon in advance.” For Dona
Tadea sexual attraction is sacred in itself,
with or without a sacrament. But,
naturally, she hopes that Ramiro and her
daughter will marry. And so they do.
At the conference, held every two
years, among other customs observed,
tools of the trade used thirteen times are
melted down in an old forge. The cus-
tom is observed all over Europe, the
old hangman told Ramiro: in Germany
it is the axe; in England the rope; only
in Russia is the weapon of execution, the
pistol, used more than thirteen times—
“they don’t care how often they use it”
—and this neglect of decent tradition
will undoubtedly bring about the down-
fall of the regime. Collars used too many
times are apt to open and shut of their
own volition, to float in the air and talk.
The Burgos hangman (socially the most
important hangman in Spain) has heard
one mewing like a cat.
The old hangman is proud of Ms
savings, proud of his diabetes, as proof
of rich living. With a mixture of pride
and embarrassment he confides to
Ramiro that women, aristocrats, some-
times take a fancy to hangmen—“it is
not oneself, you understand, it is the
office . . . one has had an elegant time.”
It is wise to have a heavy meal after an
execution. The condemned man is always
call el pobrelo—Aha poor wretch —“now-
adays they don’t mistreat them.” Rue
outside the door keeps away the spirits
of the poor wretches —“one needn’t be-
lieve in it.” Ramiro is taken into the base-
ment and instructed in the mysteries,
technicalities, and perquisites of his
trade. Collars (there are many, always
kept under lock and key) remain the
personal property of the executioner.
Without being strictly dishonest about
expenses, something always sticks to
one’s fingers. In short, the life has its
compensations. He demonstrates an in-
genious mechanism, a needle which, at
the moment of strangulation, shoots up
and pins the tongue; for aesthetic
reasons.
If the mask is inhuman one is aware
of a man beneath it, as the story unfolds.
These macabre details are taken from
near the end of the book. The opening,
with its curious echo of De Maistre’s
tour de force of the executioner as the
apex of society, deserves study for its
technical quality, and in relation to the
rest of the book. There is always a
danger, of course, in an explosive begin-
ning ; anything that follows tends to be
anticlimactic. But Sender’s handling of
these difficulties is extraordinarily deft.
His use of the newspaperman is admir-
able. Every ounce is extracted from his
reactions, but his personality is never
intruded. He is the perfect narrator. He
is also the necessary link between the
reader and the enigmatic and inhuman
figure of the hangman—the “executor of
justice.” This contact established, the
newspaperman fades out, to appear again,
towards the end of the book, completing
a circle.
A gesture in this early scene lights up
the paradox at the root of the book.
The newspaperman offers his hand to the
hangman. In its context the action is
gratuitous, 'unexpected, shocking. The
warden and other witnesses are shocked,
and there is a suggestion that the news-
paperman is hysterical. A suggestion—
that is Sender’s method, a hint of causa-
tion. They shake hands. In effect, the
hangman shakes hands with humanity,
against a sombre background. And this
is an excellent bridge in construction,
making the subsequent meeting and con-
versation —the first glimpse behind the
mask—credible.
There is a quick transition from the
man who leaves a cafe because a small
boy is staring at him—“children always
stare at me”—to Ramiro the small boy,
the illegitimate son of a harshly penitent
mother:-
When I was a child my mother told me
tales that made me cry with pain, and then
she would tell everyone how tender-hearted
1 was.
The next sentence plunges into the
third person.
The disgrace of Ramiro’s mother is
made harder by poverty, life in a small
town, her own temperament, and family
pride. The Vallemedianos are the ruined
branch of a great house. She seeks to
atone for the sin of conceiving Ramiro
by a fantastic piety, and her attitude to
Ramiro is grotesque, but not unbe-
lievable, She remains a half-tragic, half-
absurd figure. Ramiro is quick and in-
telligent, and gains some local fame as a
painter of religious decorations. At the
height of Ms popularity an unlucky
amatory adventure forces him to leave
the town under a cloud. He is involved
in a series of picaresque adventures: a
circus ; gipsies; syndico-anarchists; jail;
aristocrats; the Spanish Civil War.
Sender treats the Civil War as a string
of incidents in the life of Ramiro.
Despite this almost off-hand treatment,
the Civil War is vital to the theme.
Ramon J. Sender has two obvious quali-
fications for writing about that confused
and bloody affair, which, from this point
of time and place, cannot but appear
curiously remote. He can write,
and he was there. His first novel,
Imam, published in 1929, was
widely translated from the original
Spanish. In 1935 he was awarded
the Spanish National Prize for Literature.
He commanded the first mixed brigade
in the defence of Madrid and he is now
Professor of Spanish Literature at the
University of New Mexico, Albuquerque.
He is, it seems, one of those middle-class
intellectuals who opposed both Franco
and Communism. A class wMch, historic-
ally, has had rather a thin time in parts
of southern, eastern, and central Europe:
liable, in crises, to be crushed between
extremes.
That, more or less, is Ramiro’s pro-
blem. When the duke, a powerful kins-
man who has rescued him from jail, ques-
tions him about his friends he says they
are “simple and heroic men”;
“Are they heroic because they throw
bombs?” fjr
But Ramiro really considers these men,
“in a certain way, innocent.” Their faith
is foreign to Mm, and to accept their
right to act on it was to invite chaos.
“Like all artists, Ramiro hated chaos.”
They have, however, in their willing-
ness to die, a certain spectacular interest.
But the duke, too, a “simple and cordial
man” who considers his immense wealth
a trust —“God gave me life to help the
humble” —has a certain disconcerting
innocence. The duke takes a family-
one might say a dynastic—interest in
Ramiro, and finds antiquarian explana-
tions for his behavior, dating from the
Avignon heresy in the 15th century. In
the 17th century there were two Valle-
medianos defending the quietist doctrine
of Miguel de Molinos before the
Pope; “A latent tendency to fight the
royal house has lingered on in that branch
of the family.” .
Ramiro, in a spirit of pure friendliness,
(i Continued on page 35)


< - wmi^m»
iii ~s«'
> *3lp’'.' f .v ' *"' '-«t *
' fjm J
jh\ ' i .-- «' *'*?
pjr I : ' '* :
• : :
SSi
.«■ i 3
#~i
saP»
.... ’-'> ; WB|
M ft / ' /'. ■:;
*- "■*
1
..
w ‘ I *V
v-
Mi
'■
B
ft
—"Si
--4
.. m
Ilf
> :
. ■"
A.
■
1
ft
a ■
1.1
■ft
I
:ift
iii
ft ft; -
:
• -ft :--'■
■ .
■
ilii
ft
VS:
ft ft i
m
-I
:\1 :
3
JLOlt Q
Just dial this
3
80951
number
and ask far
TA P «
JL § v § JL • k (copyright)
%
T.O.P.S. our Telephone Orders and Personal Shopping Service is the
easy, modern way to shop. T.0.P.5., which was specially instituted for the
benefit of you, our customers, who find it impossible to come to town to shop,
brings every Department in ANTHONY HORDERNS’ just as near to you as your own
telephone. If you’re a busy housewife, a harassed business man or an out-of-town tradesman, T.O.P.S. can help you! Gone are
the days when, with a lengthy order to place, you had to endure the irritation of being transferred from one department to
another with consequent delay. Gone, too, are the days when orders from different departments arrived on different days.
Now, an efficient T.O.P.S. assistant takes your complete order and has it delivered promptly and efficiently to your door. Or, if
you desire personal selection of any merchandise, a Personal T.O.P.S. Shopper will gladly go round the store and shop for you!
Optical Department guard gear Eges at Work and MPlagl
$ m %
m
am
m
<. s
ft¥i*
C?"" ** . X • ..‘^Uw^VM.
mm
ssfis
SSSSS?:
I
i>s»
*w
■
>&
laaafrti
Your eyes, when in need of attention,
will most likely sound their own warn'
ing. Headaches and eyestrain are but
two symptoms. Often this warning goes
unheeded—but, if you’re wise, you’ll
quickly pay a visit to our special 2nd
Floor Optical Centre, where Mr. J. A.
Galloway, A.S.T.C., F. 1.0., the con-
suiting optometrist, will be only too
happy to guide you in the care of your
eyes. Special attention is given to all
Doctors’ and Hospital prescriptions.
Anthony
Horderns'
opens daily at
8.30
a.m.
Every morning, Monday to
Saturday inclusive, Anthony
Horderns’ Store will be open
at half past eight. This
change in Store opening
hours has been made for
your convenience. Shop
early and save lunch-hour
time, benefit from our
many specials. And
remember, our Dining
Room will be open for
breakfast at 8.30, Monday
to Friday.
Australia's biggest
Birthday Party
What a riot of fun the
children have at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
every Saturday morning.
No less than 30 birthdays
are celebrated each week,
and between five and six
hundred children and their
senior escorts enjoy the fun
in one huge Birthday Party.
The fun starts at 9.45 a.m.,
when all the children gather
in our Special Concert Hall.
There they enjoy a full
hour’s entertainment and
community singing, con-
ducted by 2GB artists. Then
at 10.45 a.m., they all troop
down to our Dining Room
for their birthday parties!
What a great idea for
parents! All you do is book
a table for your party, any
number, at a fee of 2/6 per
head, and ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ do the rest.
Free Advice on
Interior Home
Decorating
In our recently opened
“Contemporary Shop” there
are three expert Interior
Decorators who will* gladly
give you any assistance you
may need for furnishing,
redecorating, home painting
and planning.
This is a service many
thousands have availed
themselves of and for which
we are famous.
Contemporary Shop
3rd Floor
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns
df


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 22, 1954
Vol 75—No. 3893
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George .Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
• Phone, BU 5971. ' J
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
COMMUNIST CONSPIRACY
The spate of small strikes which have been developing
along familiar lines, but on new types of pretext, in
Australia during the past year suggests a recrudescence
of Communist activity. They affect mainly transport,
fuel and power. They are a worse kind of strike than
the larger strikes of former years because they achieve
the effect of a large-scale strike without much cost to
the unions which brew them. It doesn’t matter to the
Communists and their fellow-travellers much whether
a majority of those engaged in an industry favor the
strike or not. It matters equally little to them how men
come to be out of work so long as they are out of work,
so long as production, and particularly defence pro-
duction, is impeded and discontent is fermented. The
objective of the Communist party is disruption leading
to destruction of the State.
It practises its tactics with a view to this objective
wherever it appears, even in courts and in royal
commissions.
The strikes which simultaneously threatened to
shut-down bus-transport in Sydney—tram-transport
would have followed in short order when the Govern-
ment began to take steps to use it to replace buses —
and create a general electricity-blackout involved no
more than a few hundred men, nearly all in the A.E.U.,
a union which has been a perennial source of Red
disruption for many years. It promised to have results
so widespread that even the Cahill Government felt
forced to adumbrate stern action, including the dis-
missal of the men involved.
There were already signs, as the deadline
approached, that the resolution of the Government was
turning to sand, but it was fortunately denied the
opportunity of proving its heroic qualities by the
decisions of the unions themselves, which were
expected by everybody familiar with the methods
currently being pursued by Communist organisations.
The strange position which exists in the “Labor”
movement is shown by the fact that the Leftist unions,
having generated the agitation which has brought about
the recent stoppages in the electricity - producing
plants, are sitting back happily adding disruption inside
the movement to general disruption. Their policy and
that of the militant A.L.P. industrial-groups run so
closely parallel that they cannot help working in
absolute accord at certain stages. And having jockeyed
the “Right-wing” Communists (who follow Dr. Evatt)
into the position in which they are serving the objec-
tives of themselves, the Left-wingers (who follow
Comrade Malenkov towards the same goal of the
destruction of the present social system and the sub-
stitution of a slave Socialist State) are content to
discomfit the reformists by assuming the role of
constitutionalists.
The spectacle thus is presented of the Right-wing
constitutionalists seeking to continue the bans arising
out of supposed anomalies in the general agreement
which 19 unions have entered into with the electricity
authorities, while the Left-wing virtuously puts forward
motions that, provided there is no victimisation, all
bans should be lifted and the movement should
“accept an assurance by the N. S. Wales Labor Council
that the Electricity Commission will discuss outstand-
ing grievances.” The proposal seems the stranger
coming from a Communist-indoctrinated union source
because it is stated to be advocated “because of the
strike-breaking policy of the Government, and the
hostility of the Labor Council and the unions
supporting the Government policy.” The explanation
of those putting the idea forward is that “it is necessary
in the interests of trade-union unity of action.”
It is a cunning move. The Communist agitation
against the agreement will continue. The workers will
be told that they have been defeated because of the
Right-wing. The fight will be not merely against the
agreement but also against the Right-wing, so that a
double purpose is served and chaos is created more
generally than it otherwise would be.
The Communist party is obviously setting out on
a very large-scale attack on unionism, generated by its
being kicked from office in so many great unions by
means of the Menzies Government’s amendments to
n* the Arbitration Act which provide for secret election-
ballots. The fight also will be against the arbitration
system, for it has dawned on them that it is only a
matter of time before they are wiped out of union
controls altogether by application of the amended Act.
They therefore, as Mr. Eli Harrison, M.P., suggested
in Parliament last week, are prepared actually to court
the deregistration of their unions, to flout the law to the
limit and thus to place their elections outside its reach
and regain the advantage of being able to conduct
them in the old way and secure the election of their
followers by forgery, blackmail, false counting, intimi-
dation and all the tricks by which they held their
ascendancy until two or three years ago. The campaign
is obviously to be nationwide, since the Central
Committee of the party has issued a special syllabus
for a “branch study course” on “The Party and the
Trade-unions.” This embodies eight comprehensive
lessons, a schedule of textbooks for study based on the
Third World Trade-union Congress, in which
Comrade Ernie Thornton and other Australian Com-
munist notables were leading lights, together with the
works of Stalin, Dmitrov, Sharkey and “current
material from the ‘Tribune’ and ‘Communist Review.’ ”
The lessons set out in detail the tortuosities of
the policy which has been pursued in the power and
transport strikes in Sydney, turn the resolutions of the
A.C.T.U. on the basic wage, margins and ballots to the
purposes of Communism, and direct the attention of
students to the problem of how “Italian experience,”
and that of other European countries, can be applied
to situations in Australia, “which are sufficiently similar
to allow the same tactics to be applied here.”
Particular stress is laid on the need to use the
unions “in defence of democratic rights,” which
involves agitation against controlled ballots, against
the Security Service, the Crimes Act, the sedition
laws in general and “attempts to abolish or restrict the
right to strike.” In developing discussion round these
questions, tutors are advised to “concretise it as much
as possible—i.e., centre the discussion round positive
means of developing action.” Test questions “based
on current events should be introduced to discover
how much material has really been assimilated —for
instance, what was done on your job or in your union
about Petrov provocation?”
It is quite obvious that a new and major plan is
already in operation to restore the conditions of
chaos that existed when there was a soft Federal
“Labor” Government in office.
Living-standards and Leisure
Seven years have passed since the Federal Arbitration
Court, on September 8, 1947, delivered the judgment
under which four months later the 40-hour week was
grafted on to the Australian economy. Commenting
on the immensity of the mass of material placed before
them in the course of the 22 months over which the
hearing extended, their Honors Drake-Brockman, C.J.,
Foster, J., and Sugerman, J., said that their task was
to determine where lay the interests of the parties and
where the interest of society as a whole.
The task set the court was no easy one, and the
three judges by no means regarded it as such.
Throughout their judgment ran a thread of awareness
of the complexity of their assignment and of its far-
reaching importance to the community. They spoke
of the problem of finding “some predominant pattern”
in the “inextricably interwoven matters” brought before
them, and said that in forming a judgment they Were
required to weigh the imponderable, to compare
Incomparables, to measure what has no measure and
to reduce to certainty whatvis basically a matter of
assumption, hypothesis and 'speculation.
Realising that the effect of their decision would
“make the law for Australians in their industrial rela-
tions filling half the waking hours of their working
days,” they felt constrained to say that “the respon-
sibility of this onerous task does not properly belong
to this court.” They went further: —
It is a matter of striking comment that in a
democracy so much legislative power should be im-
posed on and entrusted to three men appointed for v
life and beyond the reach of the popular will.
Referring to the action of the McGirr Govern-
ment in legislating for a 40-hour week for New South
Wales while the court was still hearing the case, their
Honors, while expressly disclaiming any intention of
criticising that action, said it was very obvious that it
had presented them with a fait accompli in relation
to a substantial section of industry, “and to that extent
did affect the freedom with which the court might
otherwise have acted.”
In 1947 “Labor” was in power in the Federal
Parliament and also in four of the States. These five
Governments all supported the unions’ application for
a shorter week, and the court said that as sovereign
bodies they must be assumed “to have deliberately
chosen their course in the light of their responsibilities
to their citizens.”. But these Governmental actions
were merely a part of the mass of imponderables over
which the court long pondered. To what extent they
influenced the decision no one can say.
Although the order for the reduction of hours
came in the last pages of a lengthy judgment, its nature
was foreshadowed in the opening paragraphs: —
The pursuit of leisure by the workers of the world
has persisted through history for many centuries.. . .In
the past it was enjoyed by the few Capitalism, replac-
ing earlier social orders, ushered in the Machine Age
and made it possible to extend the boon of increased
leisure —freedom from the grind of unremitting labor —
to the many. From the early beginnings of this system
workers sought this leisure and have slowly won it
It has been the historic role of employers to oppose
the workers’ claims for increased leisure And history
has invariably proved the forebodings of employers to
he unfounded.
This matter of leisure was much discussed in the
course of the court’s proceedings. The unions’ case,
in the view of the judges, was that “the workers were
asking for a higher standard of living, and regarded
increased leisure as the first and most important
instalment of that higher standard.”
The court expressed itself “convinced of the
sincerity and reality of the workers’ claims for leisure,”
and said it would not “assume that the workers are
children who do not know what they want.”
Having reached the conclusion that more leisure
was justified the judges turned to the question whether
the economy could afford it. They decided that it
could, or at least that it could afford to try, and
accordingly the 40-hour week became law.
The Full Court has not since had occasion to
express further opinion on the subject of leisure, and
no authoritative survey has been made of the effects, of
the shorter working week on the Australian economy.
One of the judges responsible for the judgment,
Foster, J., was seconded from the Bench last year for
specialised duty as judge and arbitrator in disputes
involving members of maritime unions. He has since
applied himself assiduously to the task of familiarising
himself as far as possible with working conditions in
the industry. Judge Foster was at one time vice-
president of the Victorian Labor party; he twice stood
as a Labor candidate for the Federal Parliament, and
he had a long record of appearances as industrial
advocate before his appointment to the Victorian
County Court which preceded his elevation to the
Arbitration Bench. Probably no judge in Australia
is less vulnerable than he to imputations of bias
against the worker. This, and his association with the
judicial homily on leisure in the 1947 judgment, give
added importance to his recent remarks on the same
subject, made in the course of hearing claims of the
Seamen’s Union for improved wages and conditions.
He said that workers “would have to put on their
thinking-caps if they continued clamoring for more
leisure-time in addition to more goods and services”:
They are clamoring for more things—aU sorts of
amenities in increasing numbers... .At the same time
they are clamoring for more leisure—a shorter work-
ing-week and limitations in all sorts of ways in
standard hours. These things are not compatible.
If they want more things, they will have to work
harder. If they want more leisure they have to be
content with fewer things.
That is plain economic commonsense. The
Bulletin has been maintaining ever since the war
that a higher standard of living can be achieved only
by a higher standard of work—by greater productivity.
Despite all the advances of science and invention the
old home-truth is still unchanged—“ You can’t have
your cake and eat it, too.”
Judge Foster further remarked that evidence indi-
cated that productive hours in the maritime industry
were falling lower and lower, and that the average
seaman worked fewer than 40 hours a week. He said
that sooner or later someone would be asking him to
prescribe a 40-hour week again “and ask me to see
that it is worked.” As to the seamen, it was time they
woke up and thought about these problems:
If they do less productive work, but still demand
higher and higher standards, then someone else is work-
ing harder to provide it. In other words, they are to
some extent—to put it in their own language—exploiting
other workers. That is not working-class solidarity as I
understand it.
Not only the seamen but the whole of organised
“Labor,” political as well as industrial, has a duty to
itself and the community, to wake-up to this truth.
It may be possible for one section of unionists —
seamen, coalminers, transport-workers or power-
house employees—to exploit their fellows for a limited
period, but when the whole philosophy of “Labor” is
based on the principle of more pay for less work it
must surely be apparent to all but fools that that is not
working-class solidarity but working-class suicide.
Open-marketing Butter
From Auckland: For New Zealand’s £lOO-million-a-
-year dairy industry the switchover to open-marketing
makes this season the start of the fourth stage since
the founding of the guaranteed-price system 18 years
ago. The first was the establishment-phase in the pre-
war years, when dairyfarmers were getting around
Is. 2d. a pound, and were well-off compared with a
few years further back ; the next was the war and
post-war year-to-year bulk-marketing period ; the third
was the boom stage under the seven-year 1948-55
contract with the British Ministry of Food, shortened
to six years; and the fourth looks like being a
strenuous time of competitive selling.
Throughout the 18 years' the guaranteed pries
moved in only one direction —upwards —and at the
peak, in the past season, the butterfat payout was
37.89 d. (N.Z.) a pound, nearly treble the 1937 figure of
13.88 d. The price rose twice as fast, on the average,
in the past six years as earlier, and Maoriland dairy
incomes kept well ahead of rising costs. It was such a
comfortable existence that many farmers didn’t attempt
to work their places 100 per cent., mainly because the
tax department took a big share, and the unused
capacity is a handy reserve to be drawn on in the next
few years. This season’s cut of %d. for butter and a
penny for cheese, to 37.484 d. and 39.984 d. a pound (on
a butterfat basis), is hardly enough to have much
effect, but a bigger knock has come to the milk-powder
business, a line that needs a roomier market. The
industry as a whole has to absorb this. The overall
drop of £7.25 million in estimated income is barely
equal to the difference between a good production
season and a bad one, and the industry still has a
reasonable chance of reaching £lOO million for me
year’s turnover. . .
Three clouds in the sky are the all-out selling drive
by the margarine trade, the difficulty of getting all tne
butter-exporting - countries to pull together, and tne
dollar surpluses overhanging the market. So tar
hasn’t been able to make much impression witn i
butter publicity, mainly because the margarine c •
have been putting more money into the fight, ana uu
when the difference in price makes the early rou
doubly important. The dollar stockpile is something
N.Z. is watching closely; so long as it s there m
butter-consuming countries have the marketing o
on their side.


IN THE JOHNNIE RAY MANNER
“Oh, Doctor Evatt!” “Oh, Mr. Sheahan!
It hurts to think how croo-el they have been!..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence in New Guise
The so-called rebellion of the back bench
of the Government party in the Federal
House of Reps over National Service
call-ups got nowhere. McColm, Gullett,
Osborne and their supporters are well
intentioned, but the position is that while
the Government has budgeted to train
as many men each year as previously it
cannot cope with additional intake. It
has some difficulty in dealing with the
bottleneck of instructional personnel
even now. And the sensible thing has
been done —to exempt for the time being
young rural workers who may assist in
increasing production of exportable com-
modities and help lift the national
income and overseas balances, and also
a proportion of those engaged in industry
who may help to develop defence-
production.
With a military force of over 100,000
on the present basis, the vital task is
rather to intensify and extend training
within the boundaries of existing enlist-
ment than to expand enlistment beyond
the training- and barrack-capacity of the
Army.
The whole of the defence system is
likely to attract criticism at present, be-
cause it is going through a period of
transition. The experimental phase
which came into being directly after the
end of the war is only now reaching its
first fruition. It is less of import that we
have allowed the old airfields to go than
that we now know for the first time what
the specifications of World War 111 air-
fields will really be and are setting out to
equip them.
Three years ago it was quite impossible
to say exactly where, strategically, - the
fields should be placed because types of
aircraft had not been proved, guided-
missile technique had not yet approached
the stage of perfection which it has
reached, and atomic weapons for the
battlefield had not even been brought to
the proving stage.
Ships, weapons, aircraft in the past ten
years have all been passing through
periods of speedy obsolescence in every
country. But the definitive stage has
come, and all armies and navies and air-
fleets are in process of being reorganised
and given the new atomic look. This year
the first atomic submarine with a world-
range has taken the water. The hydro-
gen-bomb has been proved. And it is
obviously only since the British Air
estimates passed through the House of
Commons in April that atomic weapons
have been brought to the point of even
elementary battle use. The British and
American schools of atomic warfare are
still debating whether the battlefield
weapons of the new era will stem from
the U.S. atomic llin. field-gun or from
rocket-launcher types developed by the
British ordnance authorities.
The helicopter has come in a big way
for battlefield transport. The range and
carrying-power of aircraft have extended
beyond the imagination of military plan-
ning in 1939. New metals, new scientific
discoveries through the use of electronic
calculators are helping to revolutionise
the guided missile.
World-defence technique, and with it
the whole of the sciences of tactics and
logistics, are in the melting-pot. And
every nation is in the same position with
its defence forces. The next ten years
will see revolution in the matter of arms
and their use and in the approach to
strategy and tactics, though basic prin-
ciples will remain.
Meantime, it is a consolation that Aus-
tralia has more contact with modernity in
defence through experience and the ser-
vice abroad of its troops than ever before
in peace-time, and that it has a fine cadre
of brilliant young officers well paid and
encouraged to stay in the services, who
will be lords of the new atomic era when
it comes to maturity within the next
dozen years or so.
Tatt.'s and the Hospitals
With a grateful, if somewhat guilty, eye
in the direction of Hobart, Victorian
Premier Cain presented his first Tatter-
sail’s Budget last week. Not that Tatt.’s
had anything to do with the £708,000
surplus he was able to announce for
1953-54 —the first for seven years. That
came largely as a result of an improve-
ment in railway finances, general revenue,
entertainments-tax (to be reduced this
year) and probate-duty. But in the com-
ing year Tatt.’s will be big business.
Cain estimates he will receive
£2,250,000 as duty on Tatt.’s tickets this
year. Of this £1,570,000 has been ear-
marked for the Hospitals and Charities
Fund, which amount, with £BBO,OOO from
the tote-tax and the normal grants from
Consolidated Revenue, will bring hospital
expenditure for the year to £8,050,000,
which is £1,505,000 higher than for
1953-54. If the Budget estimates are
realised “a further sum of at least
£680,000 will be available for allocation
to the Hospitals and Charities Fund or
the Mental Hospitals Fund, from which
grants will be made to approved associa-
tions to help mentally retarded children.”
These figures will no doubt warm the
hearts of those who have for years been
urging the Victorian Government to go
into the lottery business, and will en-
courage those voices already raised in
other States urging bigger prizes for
State gambles, but before the Victorian
hospital authorities start cheering too
loudly they had better check-up on their
other sources of revenue. If the experi-
ence of other lotteried States is any guide,
they will find a steep drop in charitable
contributions this year.
Gambling and giving don’t go hai*d
in hand.
The Magic of Beer
Beer, like the lottery, the trots, the dogs
and the geegees, has always been a very
important matter in the minds of N. S.
Wales “Labor” politicians. Anyone
doubting its importance to the present
N. S. Wales Government need ask him-
self only one question: On what other
subject would one find Premier Cahill
defying the wishes of his party’s execu-
tive—and defying them not only once, but
twice? If any doubt remains, what other
subject would lead the executive to pocket
its pride and accept the rebuff, not only
once, but twice?
When Cahill first announced that the
November 13 referendum would bracket
clubs with pubs indignant protests from
all over the State put the A.L.P. executive
in a flurry. Apart from looking like very
bad tactics, the move was in conflict with
decisions of the party’s annual confer-
ence. Very swiftly a deputation waited
on Cahill to remind him that as a
“Labor” Premier he was expected to do
as he was told. For the first time on
record the deputation went home without
getting Cahill to change his mind; in-
stead, it agreed that he was doing the
right thing.
What magic words Cahill used is a
mystery. It couldn’t have been the
announcement that the present hours of
clubs would be unaffected by the result of
the referendum ; he had already said that
before the deputation was sent. What-
ever the spell, it didn’t last long. A week
later the executive was again assailed by
doubts and passed a resolution “oppos-
ing any attempt to associate the hours of
trading of clubs and hotels.”
Along went a second deputation to
Cahill conveying the substance of the
resolution. Once again Cahill’s honeyed
words worked the miracle, and the execu-
tive agreed to accept his story that it was
necessary to have a vote on clubs, but
that the result wouldn’t mean a thing.
C. W. Anderson, N.S.W. general-secre-
tary of the party, explained that, “if the
Government did not do this, controversial
legislation would be necessary to give
clubs the right to sell liquor seven days a
week.”
That may convince Mr. Anderson, but
it isn’t going to convince club-members
or those who hope to join the new clubs
the executive, among others, considers
should be licensed. Under a Supreme
Court judgment club-members are re-
garded as “inmates” within the meaning
of the Liquor Act, and may therefore be
served with liquor outside hotel-trading
hours. How this verdict could be
affected by a referendum recommending
a variation in hotel-hours has not been
explained by Cahill. He has, in fact,
expressly stated that the position of club-
members will be unchanged.
If clubs will be unaffected by inclusion
in the referendum, how in the name of
Bung could they be affected by being
omitted from it? The answer must lie
in the unpublished portion of Cahill’s
remarks to the executive, and the public
is entitled to know the full story.
Literary Obituary
From London: The passing of “John
o’ London’s Weekly” is sad, and the cir-
cumstances of its death are regretful.
For 35 years it has catered for the type
of reader who liked to think of himself
as “literary.” It largely served those who
felt that their education, literary or
general, had been inadequate and who, at
a remove from their schooldays, sought
to improve their minds. No journal has
a more distinguished list of contributors
to its credit and none has a better record
of encouraging new writers.
The reasons given for its suspension
are simple, if depressing. There are not
enough people in Britain’s vast population
who are sufficiently interested in litera-
ture and the arts to spend fourpence a
week on a literary paper. There are too
many counter-attractions for youths,
maidens and young adults. We spend
millions a year on education, and what
happens? Everybody buys tabloids,
streamlined for easy reading and gen-
erously salted with sex.
That, more or less, is the official expla-
nation. But it is liable to be misleading.
The studious child is better provided for
than he was 35 years ago. Other arts, no
doubt, have ousted literature from its
former pre-eminence. The young wage-
earner now has plenty of money. In-
stead of having, from force of circum-
stance, to derive his culture from the
reference-library he can afford-to buy
gramophone-records or to pay for entry
into theatre, opera-house or concert-hall.
And, maybe, there are so many other
exciting diversions that he has little time
to read.
On the business side, it appears that
the “economic reasons” did not amount
to a loss. The journal was, in fact,
making a profit, although not enough, in
the opinion of Newnes, its publishers.
It seems that its public was of little value
to advertisers.
So, following the example of the same
company’s “Strand Magazine” and
“London Opinion,” “John o’ London’s”
had to go; and, again according to pre-
cedent, any offers to take over the
journal’s title would be refused. While
the fault, if such it be, lies in public dis-
interest and changing tastes, a strong feel-
ing persists that Newnes, who are ex-
tremely prosperous and who own
journals with circulations well past the
million-mark, might have allowed just a
faint trace of sentiment to temper their
sound business sense. After all, even the
“Manchester Guardian” is anything but
a good business proposition.
Confusion Worse
Confounded
It is five weeks since the Petrov Commis-
sion began to sit in Sydney, and it is still
bogged down in the inquiry into the
charges of conspiracy to forge Document
J, alleged by the Petrovs to have been
written in the Soviet Embassy by Rupert
Lockwood, who admitted having typed
there during three days and left behind
matter totalling 170 pages. This portion
of the inquiry has little relevance to the
general inquiry, which, as the commis-
sioners have repeatedly pointed out, is
into the question of espionage in Aus-
tralia. But it must be disposed of,
especially since both the accusing counsel
charge that, if Document J is forged, the
rest of the documents produced by Petrov
are also suspect.
The crowds of spectators from ever-changing
cross-sections of the population, in which the
Communist claque is the most constant ingredi-
ent apart from persons directly interested, have
had full value for their time during the week.
At its beginning they had the rare experience
in a court frequented by the general public of
seeing Sir Garfield Barwick, Q.C., in action as a
cross-examiner. And that is certainly some-
thing to see, for there are few like him in
this generation in Australia. He needs to be
observed with various types of witness to
appreciate his talent. He is always courteous,
always equable, persistent, determined, and
shows a genius for divining and applying the
character of the witness to his own purposes.
After having left the commission when Dr.
Evatt’s leave to appear was withdrawn, G. T.
Sullivan and Phillip Evatt, his juniors, received
leave to reappear for Dr. Evatt’s secretaries,
Dalziel and Grundeman. And at the same
time E. F. Hill, who had withdrawn directly
afterwards, was granted leave to appear once
more for Lockwood.
When Lockwood left the witness-box,
Windeyer, Q.C., put G. T. Richards, Deputy
Director of Security, into it to enable Mr.
Sullivan to cross-examine him on the charges
that Fergan O’Sullivan, Dr. Evatt’s private sec-
retary, Vladimir Petrov and Mrs. Petrov had
conspired to fabricate Document J and that
Mr. Richards had shown negligence in accept-
ing the fabrication. Dalziel had said in evidence
previously that the references to himself in
Document J were “demonstrably false and were
put in the document to frame me.” But he
said that he was not accusing either Petrov or
Richards of putting the matter concerning him
into Document J. He said he did not know
who had made up the document and that he
had no evidence that Fergan O’Sullivan had
any part in it. In fact he did not think
O’Sullivan would take any part wittingly.
[Dr. Evatt, of course, hinted that
O’Sullivan forged the document.] DalzieJ’s
only accusation against a specific individual
was that Mr. Richards was negligent
in not having established the truth of
a statement attributed to him in the document,
i.e., that he had given information that a Pro-
fessor Kluckholn, from U.S.A., had visited
Australia to investigate alleged pro-Russian
sympathies in Australian schools. Mr. Grunde-
man, Dr. Evatt’s assistant-secretary, when
Barwick, Q.C., asked him if he was aware that
Dr. Evatt had made an accusation on his
behalf regarding Document J, said that he had
made no allegations against the Security Service.
His counsel had made the allegations, though
he himself thought the Security Service should
have investigated the document instead oi
having a royal commission.
When Mr. Richards was put into the box
for cross-examination Mr. Sullivan, for Dalziel
and Grundeman (Dr. Evatt’s secretaries), said
that his instructions were not to cross-examine
him or Dr. Bialoguski or Petrov, but that he
refused to withdraw the charges. Mr. Justice
Owen said that he had never heard of a case
in which counsel who had made grave charges,
as in this case, had refused to cross-examine a
witness against whom the charges were made.
Mr. Sullivan said that he had never heard it
suggested that any counsel in any court could
be forced to cross-examine a witness. Mr. Hill
also refused to cross-examine and said that
as far as he was concerned he adopted the
same position as Dr. Evatt. The chairman
gave Mr. Richards permission to leave the box.
Mr. Justice Philp then asked whether the
alleged conspiracy between O’Sullivan and the
Petrovs was being pursued, and Mr. Justice
Ligertwood said that in his opinion there was
an attempt to draw a red-herring into the
inquiry to involve the commission in matters
not concerned with espionage but which had
some ulterior objective.
Mr. Justice Philp said he agreed—that he
thought an attempt had been made to bog
them down in a political morass.
Lockwood, when in the box, refused to tell
Mr. Justice Ligertwood whether he had asked
his counsel not to cross-examine Dr. Bialoguski
and Mr. Richards. He said he considered u
was a matter of privilege between himself and
his counsel, in whom he “had complete conn-
The day’s sensations received their coping-
stone with the announcement by Mr. G. i ■
Sullivan that he proposed later to call tne
Prime Minister —it is, of course, the prerogative
of the commission to call witnesses, and ®
counsel outside Mr. Windeyer has any standing
in the matter. He said that Dr. Evatt pro-
posed to appear—first it was said the following
Monday, then the following day—to apply to
be readmitted to the Bar table as counsel t
his secretaries. - ~. . at ,
Next morning Dr. Evatt resumed his seat at
the Bar table next to Mr. Hill, and made hi
application, which, after a short adjournrne ,
was refused by the commission on the same
grounds as previously. He then applied to
allowed to appear on his own behalf as heaa
of the Opposition because of references to h
in Document J. He said he wanted to show
that the part of J referring to himself , was
“complete concoction and part of an elab
Justice Owen said that if the commissioners
o Continued on next page)
Miles Franklin
It is difficult to associate that vital, tiny
entity known as Miles Franklin, who
has just passed on, with death. For over
50 years since she astonished her con-:
temporaries with My Brilliant Career she
has been a lively part of the Australian
literary scene —she was only 18 when
her sparkling tour de force was published
in the year the Commonwealth came into
existence.
Norman Lindsay wrote a vivid pen-
picture of her as she appeared in those
days, a sprite who had somehow danced
her way into the fashionable morning
crowd on the Collins-street block. And
in her last days, though ill in body, she
had changed little in spirit or in the
measure of her vivacity. She was always
charming, appreciative to a fault of the
work of others, helpful to the neophyte
and encouraging to the arrived ; and even
her criticism was bedded in praise.
Her place in literature has yet to be
assessed. It will not be fully estimated
until the mystery of whether or no she
was “Brent of Bin Bin” is solved. But
even if she had no claim to those sober
works of merit with that name, her
acknowledged books will earn her
memory permanence—books like All
That Swagger, which won the Prior Prize
in 1936. In her own generation she was
rather before her time.
Had she begun to write in 1931 instead
of 1901, her reputation and her sale*!
would have been far larger. As it is, not
having earned much of the reward of
literature in a material sense, she stands
a very good chance of occupying a niche
in the opinion of the critics of the future
as a kind of Jane Austen of the stations,
a writer of clarity with an artless
touch which inspires confidence in the
soundness and authenticity of the scene
she describes, and with the kind of in-
sight into human character which makes
the fiction of one age understandable to
all ages.
Tiny and frail, with a cloistered air
about her, those who did not know her
history intimately were scarcely ever
made aware of the experience which lay
behind Miles Franklin’s writing. She
served with the Scottish Women’s Hos-
pital units in the Balkans during World
War I, had great journalistic experience
abroad before she returned to Australia
to settle down in a quiet cottage in a
, Sydney suburb and write when the
spirit moved her.


were to admit anyone who held certain views
but was not called as a witness to the Bar table
to represent himself, they would have half the
population of Australia appearing and wanting
to see security documents.
Mr. Justice Ligertwood said:
During the weekend I spent consider-
able time going through the evidence....
and I tell you for your own good, Dr.
Evatt, that the allegation that there was
any conspiracy against the Labor party is
quite fantastic. I don’t want to spend the
rest of my judicial life inquiring into a
charge which has no foundation whatever.
I want to get on with the question of
espionage which is what we are
inquiring into,
Mr, Justice Owen said: “My brother
Ligertwood is speaking for me,” and Mr.
Justice Philp said: “And for me, too.”
Dr.,Evatt did not leave the court after the
refusal to allow him to appear. He spent the
rest of the week in court. Both Mr. Sullivan
and Mr. Hill had now reversed their previous
decision not to cross-examine Mr. Richards
and Dr. Bialoguski. Dr. Evatt at first sat directly
behind Mr. Hill. He spoke to the Communist
counsel several times while he was cross-
examining, touching him twice with a roll of
paper to call his attention. Then he slid away
to the end of the seat, turned and said a few
smiling words to Fergan O’Sullivan, moved
back occasionally to speak to Mr. Hill or
leant forward to advise Mr. Sullivan. Occas-
ionally he smiled and nodded to the press
bench or the gallery. And when he left the
court he was loudly cheered. Twice supporters
were ejected from the gallery for interrupting
the proceedings. And the stone gate-posts of
the court were decorated with a typical Com-
munist slogan: “Give Evatt a go.”
Mr. Sullivan’s cross-examination of Mr.
Richards was brief, and his cross-examination
of Dr. Bialoguski added nothing to the so-far
non-existent evidence of “conspiracy” and
changed no answer that the witnesses had pre-
viously given. Mr. Hill’s cross-examination of
Mr. Richards achieved the same effect.
On Friday the commission decided to publish
most of page 35 of Document J, which is
allegedly the part fabricated to injure Dr. Evatt,
his staff and the Labor party. It now appears
that the allegations of the conspirators (if con-
spirators exist) amount to the following—that
Mr. Dalziel supplied the inaccurate information
(Mr. Dalziel says he didn’t) that Professor
Kluckholn was here from the U.S.A. to investi-
gate pro-Soviet operations in schools; that Dr.
Evatt, according to a conversation with one ot
his staff, was worried over a visa for America
when going to the Coronation; that Mr. Menzies
had to intervene to stop any possibility of an
insult to Dr. Evatt; that the Americans were
angry with Dr. Evatt for his defence of Com-
munist-led trade-umons in the High Court and he
incurred more American wrath when he defeated
the Right Wing clerical group—Messrs. “Keon,
Mullens [whose name was misspelt] Burke,
etc.,” who wanted Labor to support a “Yes”
vote in the Communist-party Dissolution Act
referendum; that Dr. Evatt was noted for the
way he nurses personal grudges and seeks
revenge on his opponents, a trait which the
writer of the document averred might color his
attitude to Americans when he became Prime
Minister.
All that had happened, in fact, to
give rise to the statement about the visa was
that the American authorities, knowing that
Mrs. Evatt was American-born, asked for some
indication before a visa was granted her that
she had abandoned her United States national-
ity, and this was promptly supplied by an
officer of the Prime Minister’s Department. The
information was credited to “F.O’S.” Mr.
Windeyer said they could safely assume the
initials to represent Fergan O’Sullivan, whose
solicitor denied that he was the author of any
part of the page. In addition, on the allegedly
forged page was some mention about supposed
contributors to Labor-party funds.
There seemed, when the commission finished
the week, to be several days ahead before it
could escape from the toils of the conspiracy
charge, which has not even been formulated in
detail. It is still waiting for the charges to be
given substance by a recital of particulars of
the evidence which barristers Evatt and Hill
profess to be able to put forward.
POLITICAL POINTS
The most sacred page in the Lud
Mayor’s visiting-book at Melbourne
Town Hall has only one signature on it:
“Johnnie Ray, New York City.” There
isn’t even a teardrop on it!
• o
Hearing of the margins claims will be
resumed in the Federal Arbitration Court
next Tuesday, the court having agreed to
reopen the case now instead of waiting
until November 9. Tuesday’s resumption
is contingent upon the completion of
evidence in the air-pilots’ case now be-
fore the court,
• , •
Tea’s going up. Tea’s not going up.
Tea’s going up. Tea’s not going up.
Tea’s . . .
• •
At the Rum Jungle shivoo Menzies
had a few words to say on the peace-time
use of atomic power. Present knowledge
is already sufficiently advanced to pro-
duce power, but not as cheaply as by
methods already in use. For this reason
New South Wales and Victoria, with
Snowy River power soon available, are
less likely to develop atomic-power
stations in the near future than are South
Australia and Westralia with their limited
coal-resources and little or no water-
power.
• •
It is anticipated that J. Shortell, a vice-
president of the A.L.P., will succeed Cap-
tain Murchison as a full-time Commis-
sioner of the Maritime Services Board
next January. A few more appointments
like that and Admiral McGrrrrr’s board
can transfer its meetings to Goulburn-
street.
•' •
Victorian Country party will need a
new leader and deputy-leader before the
next election, which, unless something
occurs to hurry it up, will take place to-
wards the end of next year. On medical
advice both J. G, McDonald and K.
Dodgshun intend to retire from politics
at the end of the present Parliament.
This announcement puts an end to specu-
lation regarding the intentions of the
two leaders following the elimination of
their seats under the two-for-one redis-
tribution. One result may be to smooth
the way to closer co-operation between
the Opposition parties.
• •
Clerical assistance is to be provided for
principals of the bigger State schools in
N. S. Wales. Paper-work cuts tremen-
dously into headmasters’ time, and the
move is probably a good one, but it will
need to be carefully watched or the
“assistance” will soon expand into a sub-
department almost as numerous as the
teaching staff.
• •
The Methodist Church in N. S. Wales
is at least consistent in campaigning for a
continuance of six-o’clock closing at the
referendum on November 13, but its
president’s statement on the subject seems
rather off the beam. He says that
for those who must drink there are ample
facilities available at present without fur-
ther pandering to combines that seem to
have power over every legally constituted
authority.
The ample facilities apparently include
the six-o’clock swill. As to the “com-
bines,” the general impression is that the
breweries and U.L.V.A. are on the same
side as the Methodist Conference.
• •
Professor Kathleen Lonsdale, “peace-
rally” companion of Professor
Hromadka, explains that we can’t ask the
other side to set the example by dis-
arming ; we can only ask our own side.
Put slightly differently, we’ve got no right
to ask other people to cut their throats
but there’s nothing to stop us cutting our
own.
• •
When Riordan asked critical questions
in the Reps concerning shipping difficul-
ties at Bowen he was told that although
overseas vessels called at Bowen for meat
and sugar the shipowners were far from
satisfied with the loading-rate. In 1953-
54 nearly 56 per cent, of employers’ com-
ments on the efficiency of labor at the
port were unfavorable. There was no
boycott by coastal vessels, but the fact
that they went to other ports “illustrates
the losses which the community suffers
from the restrictive practices of some
waterside workers.” In the same year,
38,977 man-hours were lost through dis-
putes at Bowen. The sugar-loading rate
was the worst in Queensland, and the
meat-loading rate the second-worst in
Australia.
• •
“Paterson”: Somebody’s been getting
his Allans mixed. It isn’t Allan Hulme
(B. 15/9/’54) that is going to the U.N.
General Assembly meeting as Australian
representative, but Allen Fairhall,
Liberal M.H.R. for Paterson since 1949.
Still, the rest of the reference fits both
Allens. Fairhall, too, is “well-chosen” ;
he’s also “keen and well-informed.”
• •
Cahill’s Attorney-General Sheahan,
who runs his boss a close second in the
sport of abusing the Press, has repeated
his allegation that the Sydney “Herald”
used the police to incarcerate its former
general-manager. When Sheahan first
made the charge in Parliament the
“Herald” said the allegation was “false,
and false to his knowledge,” and chal-
lenged him to repeat it outside Parlia-
ment. He has repeated it —inside
Parliament.
• •
Mechanical extraction of pillar-coal
was scheduled to begin on Monday at
SWALLOWED
seven mines on the N. S. Wales northern
field. Coincidentally the extra payments
authorised by the Coal Industry Tribunal
on August 16 were to come into force.
The move may help to save the South
Australian market. Last week Premier
Playford told the Joint Coal Board his
State was prepared to take 24,000 tons a
week for the rest of the year if it could
get it. Recently it had been receiving
only 14,000 tons of a desired 17,000 tons
a week, and public utilities were con-
sidering changing over to oil-fuel unless
enough N. S. Wales coal of suitable
quality could be guaranteed.
• •
“Stromlo”; Is the Government ever
going to take stock of the value or other-
wise of Australian membership of the
1.L.0., with the ceaseless tripping in-
volved? At the Geneva meeting in June
the Australian employers’ delegate, H. J.
Hendy, pointed out that the sudden and
concerted desire of Iron Curtain countries
to participate in the deliberations was
obviously due to some general directive.
He asked whether it was due to desire to
co-operate with the free employers, or
from fear that improved industrial re-
lations and working conditions in free
countries (“and through the 1.L.0.”) were
a threat to the success of their avowed
policy. The tripartite composition of
1.L.0., Governments, workers and em-
ployers, provided for free expression of
opinion of free employers. Iron Cur-
tain delegates had never agreed with the
free employers, and the sincerity of their
assertions was not supported by their
record. Hendy concluded that their de-
cision to join the 1.L.0. “arose from a
determination to control it, or, failing
that, to destroy it.”
• •
Most recent Wentworthism—“Some of
Mr. Attlee’s views do not seem to be
warranted, even by the things he says he
observed.”
• •
“Lao-dah”: Mao Tse-tung has been
exhorting the Chinese nation to work
harder, to be honest, modest, earnest and
industrious, so that it can build China
into a great industrial country with a
high standard of modern culture. Some-
thing must have happened to the Chinese
if they have to be asked to work harder.
I know no race that loafs less or has less
idea of leisure. The average coolie,
farmer, merchant and craftsman used to
work all day and every day from the
cradle to the grave. If Mao wants to
realise his alleged cultural standard he’ll
have to introduce a 28- or 30-hour day.
• •
Tatt.’s has moved with the times as well
as across Bass Strait. It displays notices
in foreign languages asking customers to
have their money ready.
• •
Two parsons fighting one another for
the microphone at the Assembly Hall in
Melbourne was last week’s highlight of
the Peace and Goodwill Mission. One
of ’em wanted Professor Hromadka, the
Czech theologian, to have it, and the other
wanted it for a Czech spokesman for the
“Anti-Bolshevik Bloc” representing exiles
from countries behind the Iron Curtain.
It recalls the pre-war pacifist meeting
when one parson knocked another flat
because he thought he called him a
Fascist.
• •
While distillery officials and workers
watched, D. P. J. Ferguson, M.L.C., took
his coat off and rolled a highly polished
70-gallon cask of spirit from the whisky-
vat room to the bond-store at the Corio
distillery, Geelong. It wasn’t done to
win a barrel-rolling contest but to sig-
nalise an historic occasion, the barrel
being the 200,000 th bonded at the distil-
lery. The total gallonage of gin and
whisky from Corio is now 17 million.
• •
Protesting against a proposal to issue
200 new taxi-licences, Melbourne taximen
claim that, properly organised, the present
fleet is quite large enough to provide the
public with an efficient service and that
if the number is increased drivers will
have to work longer hours to earn a
reasonable living. That doesn’t make
mathematical sense. If the present
numbers are sufficient, then the extra 200
would be superfluous, but working longer
hours wouldn’t create additional demand.
• •
Air Minister Townley corrected a
claim in the House that Australia had
only 100 operational aircraft, but would
not disclose the total number. A day
earlier he had announced that release of
R.A.A.F. from duty in Korea and Japan
would make available in Australia im-
mediately more than 40 Meteor jets and
a battle-tested corps of pilots. They have
certainly been tested. Their score, in No.
77 squadron, included three MiG’s shot
down, seven other planes as “probables,”
plus 3700 enemy buildings destroyed,
together with 1400 vehicles, 98 items of
rolling-stock and 16 bridges,
• •
“Australian News Review,” published
in Sydney, describes itself as the “only
newspaper giving Labor’s viewpoint.”
Judging by its most recent issue “Labor”
has no views at all on the Petrov commis-
sion ; its 12 pages didn’t carry a word
on it. There was no mention of Dr.
Evatt’s unsuccessful attempt to reappear
as counsel for his staff, or for himself;
nor was there any reference to his de-
mands for a new commission. Still, even
though his own party journal left the
Doc. without a single item for his press-
cuttings book the “Tribune” more than
made up for the omission.
• •
Clifton Webb, New Zealand Attorney-
General, is off to London as High Com-
missioner in succession to Frederick
Doidge, who died last May.
• •
A bill to control obscene publications
will shortly be introduced into the N. S.
Wales Parliament, but no one seems to
know yet whether it will follow the
Queensland pattern of a board of review
or the yictorian system of registration
for publishers and distributors with loss
of licence for offenders. The second
alternative is the more dictatorial, so the
Cahills will probably find it hard to resist.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
A GOVERNMENT of, for and by the
civil servants sums-up what Russia
calls Communism. How fitting that
Russia should have produced the samo-
var, that device offering cups of tea with-
out end! —“Viper.”
<£> >5
“Tidbinbilla”: On the way home, was
surprised to see my neighbor set a ladder
up against the roof of my house. With
increasing amazement I watched him fill
“ There's too much favoritism in this ward , nurse.”
a bucket with water, climb the ladder and
pour the water on to the roof. He then
descended rapidly, hurried over to his
side of the fence, and intently watched a
hole in the ground. I was trying to
remember the hospital number when my
wife explained that neighbor, while
digging a garden-bed, had broken an
underground pipe; thought it was that
one draining our roof-guttering; was
making a simple verifying test before
phoning the plumber.
“Metralia”: Damning love in all
shapes, a Japanese boss has provoked
7000 mill-girls to a three-months’ strike.
These unwillingly cloistered Oriental
ladies would seem more deserving of
sympathy than are many of our own
strikers for this Mikado of the cotton-
mills carries asceticism to the extreme of
separating husbands and wives. Austra-
lian strikes stem from a wide index of
grievances, but frowning on connubial
pleasures is a charge which has not yet
been brought against even our harshest
capitalists. It’s in-
deed a relief to
find that one
source of indus-
trial unrest has
not yet penetrated
this country. The
Jap strike also has
a literary side to
it. Lancashire cot-
ton-workers want
to send £lOOO to
assist the plight
of their Japanese
lady - confreres ;
the Rudyard
Kipling dictum
that “East is
East, and West is
West, and never
the twain shall
meet” is thus
refuted.
“Choleric”: At
the end of a
performance, most movie-theatres show
her Majesty in uniform, mounted on
horseback. In the background is a build-
ing with an arch. This is the entry from
Whitehall to Wellington Parade. Twenty-
five years ago there was a door under
this arch, Above it was painted in faded
gold-leaf “The Commander in Chief of
the British Army,” and on one side was a
doorbell made of cast-brass with . the
word “Press” moulded in relief. I know
of no reason why it should be removed;
press that bell next time you’re in Lon-
don and let me know what happens.
❖ * ❖
“Spokeshave”; An English psycholo-
gist told the British Association at Oxford
about what she called the most remark-
able intelligence-test in history. Two
hundred London schoolchildren were
asked to complete the sentence, “The per-
son I admire most i 5....” ; the whole 200
answered “My Mum.” Our local schoolie
told me of a much more remarkable one
than that. An inspector applied an intel-
ligence-test to his kids; all the ones who
were bad at their lessons passed it and all
the good ones failed,
. .
“Ceg”: Yet another Melbourne pub
has passed over to bank ownership—the
City Club Hotel, which forms part of the
Victoria Buildings on the corner of Col-
lins-street and Swanston-street. The
buildings have been sold to A.N.Z. Bank
for £660,000. Just on 34 years ago Sol
Green bought the property for £120,000.
The old hotel was a favorite haunt of
journalists (the old “Argus” office was
alongside), and many will remember the
licensee, Mrs. Craig, and her large white
cockatoo in its cage at the front door.
The bar was rigged-up as a sort of divan ;
in those days one could take one’s ration
in comfort,
❖ ♦♦♦ *■
“Advocate”: “Antarctic Epic” (B.
25/8/’54) was well worth the re-telling;
I share “V.J.H.’s” opinion that Shackle-
ton was the greatest of the Antarctic
explorers. His own story of that expedi-
tion given in South is one of the finest
ever written. Harold Begbie, in his
Shackleton — a Memory, states that
Shackleton insisted that the heart of all
his hazards had been the companionship
of brave men. To them he was always
“Why the chain? Who do they think would pinch YOU?”
“The Boss,” a term of respect, admiration
and abiding affection. In its own way,
the record of the other half of Shackle-
ton’s plan to cross the Antarctic continent
via the Pole, as set down by Ernest E.
Mills Joyce in The South Polar Trail, is
equally enthralling. This covers the laying
of depots from the Ross Sea end. It was
a magnificent job, and the courage and
devotion to duty exhibited by Joyce
earned him the Albert Medal. Joyce
was associated with the old Sydney Har-
bor Trust for a while and his share in the
Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition, as
the venture was called, has been ably
told by B. A. Smee in the January, 1953,
issue of “Port of Sydney Journal.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“K.R.”: There have been lately dis-
covered some queer birds who’ve lain in
bed for 20 years or more ; once they got
properly settled in the cot they never got
up again. Doctor’s diagnosis in each
case, nothing worse than “chronic
inertia.” Latest reported marathon
spine-basher, an Englishman, slept-in
from about 1934 till this year, when his
parents’ tactless death forced himself to
drag himself out; not even the blitz had
previously shifted him. Then there’s old
George Lacy, of West Virginia; he went
to bed with measles in 1917 and is still
there. Reporting yet another long-
term hibemator, Melbourne “Argus,”
I couldn’t help noting, placed immedi-
ately beneath it what must constitute the
exact opposite in bedworthy motives —
that of a just-remarried 92-year-old
American medico, then an expectant
father, quoted as saying he was definitely
going in for a big family.
* *> *X*
“Mugga Way”: Courses at the officer-
cadet school at Portsea (Vic.) are to be
II months in future, instead of the pre-
sent inadequate 22 weeks. The change
should produce a more equal standard on
graduation between those cadets with
previous Army experience and those with
none. There should also be greater oppor-
tunity for assessing whether a cadet
possesses moral fibre and leadership in
adequate measure to justify his gradua-
tion. Begtm in 1952, the school will have
produced about 260 Regular Officers by
next December.
, *l* *X* <♦
“An Chuidh”: Whether or not an
attempt was made on James Vi’s life in
the Cowrie Conspiracy (Bulletin cover,
4/8/’54) is still disputed among his-
torians. The .Master of Ruthven came
to the king with a tale of a man with a
pitcher of gold ; whilst waiting for dinner
James was shown up to a room in the
turret. Only James survived to relate
what followed. There was no man with
a pitcher of gold, but an armed man who
guarded James whilst the Master went to
fetch the Earl of Cowrie. James shouted
for help from the window; the Master
returned and a struggle followed. The
nobles below rushed up the main stair-
way to find the door bolted. Sir John
Ramsay came up the back stair, killed
the Master, and also dispatched the Earl,
thus removing all, other than the king,
who may have known about it. By Act
of Parliament the name of Ruthven was
abolished, their family arms cancelled
and the estates forfeited to the Crown.
One theory is that Gowrie wished to
kidnap the king (or perhaps murder him),
but the plot would be too clumsy for their
family tradition. Another is that the
plot was James’s, to murder the two
brothers, sons of his former jailer.
James was £BO,OOO in debt to the Earl and
heavily in debt elsewhere, and confisca-
tion of the Ruthven lands helped matters
a lot. Then, too, James’s character was
notorious, so such a murder would not
be past him. But if he was guilty, why
did he use such a clumsy way of rubbing
out the Ruthven brothers?
<i* ❖
“Wire-buster”: That version of getting
“foreign orders” out of dockyards (B.
25/8 /’54), using the tide method, is
ancient. What do you think some of the
fishing-boats do, “Benbow,” anchored
here and there in the stream? Fishing?
Every morning for a week when a certain
freighter was anchored off Elizabeth
Bay I saw a bag of flour nudging the
rocks below Kirribilli. Except for a
dirty layer of dough on the outside the
rest of the flour was good. One of the
neatest things I ever saw was a dockie
who threaded 60ft. of plastic hose
through the bung into a four-gallon empty
oil-drum, then asked his foreman for a
chit to take the drum home. The signed
chit was Open Sesame at the gate.
*l* ♦♦♦ *i*
“Spin”: “Mullum’s” pencil-case, which
showed multiplication-tables up to 20 x
20 (B. 18/8/’54), may yet find a use in
Australian schools. There’s some agita-
tion to have the tables in Westralian
secondary schools increased to 16 x 12,
and those who’ve tried it out say the
extra four tables are no harder to leam
than the other 12. Why should they be?
The first 12 are mastered by pupils in the
eight- or nine-year-old group, and it’s
purely a question of memory. Another
year spent learning the rest would save
a lot of multiplication later.
<♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Metralia”: Civilisation’s grubby
fingers are now probing the hitherto in-
violate recesses of our globe’s last sanc-
tum: a New Guinea valley, secluded
since the dawn of time, which sports the
nostalgic title of “Shangri-la.” However,
a disenchanting photo of the idyllic
valley’s denizens was recently published.
From the sex-angle they fall regrettably
short of the Shangri-la tradition. Mr.
Cecil B. de Mille would shrink from
featuring these raddled sirens. It would
seem that novelist James Hilton, who
first invented Shangri-la, showed fore-
sight in picking Tibet for his locale.
Tibet, at least, still hides her ancient
mysteries, even if only behind the Iron
Curtain’s prosaic shroud.
RENUNCIATION
/ have to give up sugar
Because I am too fat;
No toffee, now, or nougat.
And no more chocolate;
I’ve no more need for teaspoons
With tea- or coffee-cup ;
I’ve often taken three spoons.
But now I give them up.
Jane Russell, no entreaties!
Jean Simmons, dry those eyes!
I’m giving up all sweeties,
1 want no sweetiepies ;
Til sip my bitter cuppa
And be like Johnny Ray,
A-howling for the supper
I’ve had to give away.
I suffer with you, honeys ;
I know what makes you sad:
The more I’m like Adonis,
The less I’m to be had ;
The more your passion kindles
Upon my symmetry.
The more its object dwindles:
The less there is of me.
It’s your fault, don’t deny it,
Who are considered sweet
And entered on our diet
As “nice enough to eat” :
The spider eats her lover.
The woman her ideal,
Though man removes the cover
And thinks he makes the meal.
I want no sugar. Sugar,
Because I am too fat.
You know the lissom cougar ?
I want to be like that!
And you who like me thinner,
I fear you are too late:
You didn’t come to dinner —
/ couldn’t stand the weight.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
SIGNIFICANT
I note unmoved a lovely curve,
I suffer no romantic hunger.
My step lacks vim; my bearing, verve;
My heart feels not a moment younger.
No portent yet that birds prepare
Their nests; few shoots or buds are
showing.
Frost still pervades the morning air.
But spring is here —my lawns need
mowing! w .
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


r THE 22 five-shilling Tattersall’s sweeps
drawn in Melbourne have netted
over a million, while the Tasmanian
lotteries which succeeded Tatt.’s when
Premier Cain pinched the little nest-egg
have drawn in a mere half-million. Pos-
sibly in a spirit of allegory, Victoria’s
State Electricity Commission has set up
a life-size model of a very badly-shaped
“Dash home and feed baby, dear. I'm stopping
for the next dance.”
cow in its window next to Tatt.’s in Mel-
bourne ; from its udders flows a con-
tinuous river of milk, through the com-
plicated mechanism of an electrically-
driven milking-machine. It is probably the
same milk all the time, which is why the
cow’s bag never seems to get dried off. —
“M.S.”
❖ ***
“Macquarie”; There could be a very
simple explanation for that geiger-counter
failing to locate the coins under the
foundation-stone of that old church (B.
25/ 8/ ’54). On a certain public building
m Sydney the architect catered for
posterity by specifying that a small cavity
be left under the commemorative stone.
Before the ceremony, clippings from the
foremost newspapers, coins of the realm,
a ten-shilling note and a fiddly were
placed in a metal box, which was put in
the cavity. The stone was then laid with
due pomp and circumstance. It was the
custom for the “mortar-buffer” to start
work half an hour before the rest so that
a batch would be knocked-up ready for
the brickies. Perhaps it was mere co-
incidence that the joint under the stone
appeared to have been disturbed next day,
but when a hard-drinking, perpetually
broke laborer had enough money to get
pie-eyed on the day before pay-day—
well. . . !
“Metralia”: Tail-lights for pedestrians
is a new-fangled notion from Germany,
showing, perhaps, that even the Teutonic
brain has its bizarre facets. Our tax-
commissioner’d pounce on this innova-
tion as paving the way to a means of
further bloating his revenues: pedestrian-
licences.
♦jt
“Spokeshave”: Mr. Fortunat Baronat,
executive of Universal International
Films, who helped to organise the Miss
Universe beauty contest, is sadly puzzled
because the competition brought beauty,
but little talent, to the U.S. The dames,
it seems, were beautiful but universally
dumb, and he cannot understand it. I
refer him to Rodin. The sculptor, walk-
ing in the Tuileries Gardens with his
secretary one morning, was contemplat-
ing the swans when the secretary said,
“Don’t you think it is a pity, master,
that birds so beautiful should be so un-
intelligent?” Rodin shifted his contem-
plation to the secretary and said, “Birds
as beautiful as that don’t need minds.”
❖ ♦ ❖
“Sister Ellell”; A certain amount of
bm-ha-ha and heavy black type over an
announcement in the paper that the Lon-
don County Council may be asked to
determine the title for the first male
hospital matron in Britain. Seems simple
enough to me—“patron.”
+> +> ♦>
“Native”: It’s a pity that Charles
Shaw and Sam, “Wondering in Wales”
(B. 18/8/’54), did not continue their
journey across Menai Strait to Anglesey
and the town of Holyhead. There they
would have seen something surely unique
—five pubs next-door to each other,
forming one street, and known locally
as the Five Sisters. Total population of
the town is only 10,000, and there are
at least a dozen
other pubs there.
Holyheaders thus
have the advantage
of not having to go
far on a pub-crawl
•—could be the rea-
son why the pubs
have done a thriving
business for the past
60 or 70 years.
“Mabsout”: 1
always enter the
“Give It a Title”
contests with huge
prizes, run by news-
papers and other
organisations f o r
charity. Even the
minor awards —20
cartons of cigarettes
or a dozen of beer
—would do me, let
alone the two-storied
houses overlooking
Sydney Harbor or
the trip to Holly-
wood and a film-
test. These compe-
titions feature a
wildly humorous
drawing by a
“famous cartoonist”
for which you have
to find a suitably
humorous title at a bob a time.
Uninhibited by the need of drawing for a
particular text, the artists let their
imaginations go. A typical effort will
show an old farmer In a fireman’s helmet
driving an ancient car while his wife
beside him excitedly fires a blunderbuss
at a wedgetail eagle flying away with an
old crone, who calmly continues to smoke
a Sherlock Holmes pipe and knit a pair
of socks. Yes, it is hard to find a subtle
title for all this, but the papers always
give a couple of examples, such as “The
Old Folks At Home” and “Oh, to Be in
England Now.” This makes it seem
easier, and I usually submit several
myself. But what do I find? From the
two-storied house down to the last fag
and bottle of beer the prizes are taken by
a succession of idiotic, meaningless
entries, distinguished only for their sheer
inanity, and without a bit of humor in
any of them.
“Lemuel G.”: Kalgoorlie’s Hannan-
street in J. E. Webb’s day (B. 8/9/’54),
with its street-lights and pepper-trees,
sounds a bit more staid than it was in
the days of the Golden Mile’s first aurifer-
“Oh, dear! I'm cut off again!”
ous glory, when it was frequently the
scene of wild celebrations marking a rich
find. During one such, one character
drove down Hannan-street in a dray with
an open cask of rum, dispensing grog to
all and sundry with a ladle. He also car-
ried a case of rotten eggs, which proved
remarkably effective in thinning the crowd
whenever it became too thick or clamor-
ous. There was, of course, a more
formal type of entertainment, favored by
those whose origins went back to some
stately home in England. Such affairs
were held in the host’s bag-humpy.
Guests were requested to bring their own
pannikins—with no limit as to size—and
seated themselves on the floor around
two large galvanised iron wash-tubs, bor-
rowed for the occasion, onq being filled
with whisky and the other with water —
yes, water, despite its cost and scarcity.
It says much for the guests’ good manners
that there was usually still plenty of the
last-named fluid left when the party
ended.
❖ +> <i*
HATCHING A GADFLY
A DELAIDE is strewn with the corpses
of weekly papers that failed to find
appreciative audiences large enough to
keep the ghost walking. One of 'the
brightest—and swiftest —of them, “The
Gadfly,” commenced its uncertain flight
on February 14, 1906.
Swearing me to secrecy, C. J. Dennis,
A. E. (Archie) Martin and Beaumont
Smith disclosed that they were going to
bring out a weekly paper which would be
“something different.” It certainly was;
too different it proved for the citizens of
the Holy City,
At that time I was serving his Majesty
without noticeable distinction in the South
Australian civil service. I relieved the
tedium of civil servitude by contributing
to The Bulletin; largely, I confess, in
his Majesty’s time and with his ink and
stationery.
This was known to my close friends,
and that is why the three conspirators
came to me. They asked me to lend a
hand. I did by contributing what might be
described as a leader and a sketch
intended to make our readers laugh.
Some did, I believe —I hope in the right
places.
The capital on which this enterprise was
to be launched was about £80; mostly
contributed by Archie Martin. This did
not permit of much preliminary blaring
of trumpets and beating of cymbals in
the way of advertising. A relatively inex-
pensive expedient was the printing of
small stickers bearing simply “The
Gadfly” in red. For some weeks before
the chosen birthday we walked at night
sticking these on city and suburban lamp-
posts, pillar-boxes and other convenient
places. Soon Adelaide was asking “What
the hell?”
Dennis was the only one of the band
with practical experience of the running
of a paper. For some years he had
worked on “The Critic,” a social and
general weekly, and had edited the paper
for some time.
Alice Grant Rosman, later to become a
successful novelist in London, was also
co-opted for the first issue. She wrote
under the pen-name of “Aunt Tabitha” —
mostly satirical stuff at the expense of the
ladies of suburbia —and became a regular
member of the small staff.
The unenviable job of secretary and
business-manager was held by Percy Bird,
a dapper little chap who sartorially put
the rest of us to shame. Bill Donald was
the first artist. He also wrote eccentric
nonsense in a style peculiarly his own.
There was no lack of helpers. Some
were of outstanding talent: Oswald Pryor,
whose Cousin Jack sketches were later
featured in The Bulletin ; J. A. (Jim)
Pearce, an excellent black-and-white
man ; Frank Koch, who came later from
Broken Hill among those who supplied
and illustrated jokes.
Distinguished writers and artists who
lent a hand were Edward, Bill and
Ambrose Dyson, lovely young Ruby
Lindsay, Randolph Bedford occasionally.
Grant Hervey, Ernest O’Ferrall
(“Kodak”) and Cyril Dobbs, who sent
drawings of an unusual type from Mel-
bourne.
These and others whose names I have
forgotten contributed pretty regularly,
mainly for love and affection; for sad to
say “The Gadfly” never reached the
blessed goal of financial success. Hussey
and Gillingham were the printers. Alas,
poor H. and G.: they were far from
adequately rewarded for their excellent
job and kindly forbearance.
Then came the day! The issue sold
out in a rush. How we rejoiced; seeing
a fortune in the offing. With the ignor-
ance of inexperience it was not realised
that first issues have a curiosity pull. It
was not long before hopes of fortune
faded and the small band toiled with scant
reward to keep “The Gadfly” on the
wing. vThe sad fact was that Adelaide
was not tjie field for a paper which was
irreverent of the shopkeeping aristocracy
of the city, and which, instead of bending
the knee to Baal, poked him impudently
in the ribs.
Dennis edited for the first 18 months,
and his verse was the brightest feature of
the paper. As an editor Den was erratic;
decisive and dynamic at times,, he was
subject to moods and intervals of A.W.L.
Archie Martin was the sheet-anchor;
always on the job and a tireless worker.
When I wrote for the first number I
had no idea of becoming a regular. How-
ever, for the first 12 months I was in the
pages every week with all sorts of stuff.
The semi-political articles, were my particu-
lar job. They were not always popular:
a prominent businessman wrote cancelling
his subscription to what he said had
become a “damned Socialist rag.” We
published his letter with a sad story of the
office-boy (ss. a week) being sacked in
consequence . and the editor abandoning
his hope of a new collar and washing
his celluloid neckwear again at the office
tap. His heart was not touched ; the can-
cellation stood.
s • • • ■
“The Gadfly” struggled along for three
years ; but the advertisers —those soulless
demanders of quantity before quality —
declined to respond sufficiently to the
twitterings of our Percy Bird, and so the
sad word “Finis” had to be written.
It was fun while it lasted. I think I
received about £1 for my year’s work.
GEOFF BURGOYNE.
THE BOLTER
“Bill. Will put up with greyhounds if you’ll
return.' Missing you much. Beryl.”-— Personal
and Missing Friends ad.
He’d affection very keen
For those pooches long and lean.
And always he would promenade them
nightly.
His pride and joy they were,
For they chased synthetic fur.
But his missus deemed the damned
things so unsightly.
And, besides, a grudge she bore,
For they had to live dog-poor.
He’d feed them on the best — rump-
steak and fillet,
While she browsed on mutton-flaps.
Mince-steak, tripe and all the scraps.
A dog-man’s spouse, she found, was no
soft billet.
He’d invariably display
Strong anxiety, deep dismay.
If of some ill they showed the slightest
traces.
But half-dead his wife could be.
He’d not notice; for, you see.
She didn’t start at long odds at the
races.
Soon the elongated tykes
Caused some chain-reaction yikes.
At last she flared into an ultimatum:
“Me or the mongs !” Well, you
Need but one guess —he shot through.
What greyhound - owner wouldn’t
evacuate ’em ?
In a dogless bliss she joyed
For a time; but then a void
In her life became aware of. And so
Beryl
Intimated by an ad.
He could start and homeward pad —
Neither his hounds nor he would be
in peril.
Did she miss the nightly rows,
Or recall her marriage vows ?
Anyway, she’ll put on the welcome
kettle.
She’ll not slip his leash again,
Nor of his disease complain.
Her Bill, now overdue, she wants to
settle !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Noted, among other things, for his
readable economic reports (he was a
journalist for six years after arriving from
Norway), Torleiv Hytten relieves D. W.
Brisbane on the Commonwealth Bank
Board. Tasmania’s university gave
Hytten his honors in economics; he gave
it back 10 years, first' as lecturer in
his subject, then professor. The ’Wales
had him for 14 years as economic adviser,
as did for years most of the Speck’s poli-
tical delegations to the mainland. Now
vice-chancellor of the University of
Tasmania, and 64.
• • -
One of the most adult radio-serials to
be aired in Australia, “Reach for the
Sky” tells the gutsy story of Douglas
Bader, legless flying ace of World War 11.
Hereunder, Rodney Taylor, Bader in the
radio-version, among the finest of Aus-
tralian radio- and stage-actors and winner,
the other day, of a £5OO award as the best
radio-actor of the year. An intelligently
restrained Thespian, Taylor had ideas of
commercial art and painting—when he
wasn’t dashing off from Sydney Tech, to
play in amateur # dramatics. The A.B.C.
nabbed him for a radio-play, and from
then on the air-waves had him. Some
nice work in films, too —the horrific blind
CHARACTERS
madman in Robert Newton’s “Long John
Silver,” produced in N.S.W., and a tough
American ex-marine in the current “King
of the Coral Sea.” Taylor is playing the
lead in J. E. Macdonnell’s naval novel
Wings Off the Sea (serialised in The
Bulletin and due for airing next month),
and plays, as well, Tarzan in a nippers’
serial. With his award goes a return
trip to the U.K. or U.S.; the “Long John
Silver” people would like to see him in
Hollywood. All this, and 24.
• •
Back in 1928 Edmund AngiiS Jones was
a salesman for Vacuum Oil in Christ-
church (N.Z.). It took him only four
years to put up “branch-manager” on his
door, and by 1939 he was g.-m. for New
Zealand. He moved the other day into
an office marked “managing-director.”
• •
K. M. Little (N.Z.): In reply to the
query “Who originated the name of
Anzac?” (B. 1 /9/’54), the answer was
given as “generally believed to be Lieut.
A. T. White, RA.S.C.” It is correct —
as stated—that one of the clerical staff
on Corps, h.-q., then -at Shepheard’s
Hotel, suggested the word. / did, early in
January, 1915. Bean’s Australian History
of World War I, Vol. 1., has a refer-
ence to it. but there is an error in
attributing the origin to Lieut. G. E. Little,
who as a corporal joined the Anzac
Provost Corps (then known as the
Military Mounted Police) on March 10,
1915, almost two months after the word
was coined. Major Wagstaff called in to
our office one morning and asked us clerks
to try to coin a suitable abbreviation of
the longwinded title of the corps. We all
had a shot, and it so happened that I sug-
gested “Anzac.” Bean’s mistake was in
naming Lieut. G. E. Little of Feilding,
instead of Lieut. K. M. Little of the same
place. Other Digger n.c.o.s doing clerical
duties with me at the time were Warrant-
Officer J. W. Donnelly and Sergeants F.
Shaw, L. A. P. Ward (personal clerk to
General Birdwood), H. McLennan, A.
Jeffries and T. R. Hammond. Where are
they now?
“Uramao”: Next month the noted
portrait-painter Edward Haliiday is due
to fly to New Zealand to paint Sir John
McKenzie, the philanthropist who recently
donated £1,000,000 for charitable objects
in the Fernland. The artist was engaged
on a portrait of Queen Elizabeth; the
Queen has set aside her sittings so that
Haliiday may execute this other com-
mission. A committee of Enzedders
arranged it; the presentation is to be
made to Sir John at Christmas. Halii-
day recently painted Indian Prime
Minister Nehru.
• •
“VK3BG”: Giving amateur radio enthusiasts
in more than 200 countries their biggest chase
for years, W. J. Storer, radio-operator and
postmaster to the Australian Antarctic Research
Expedition’s first permanent base on the Antarc-
tic continent, Mawson. Whert time permits he
tunes-up the 100-watt amateur transmitter he
built in Sydney before crossing the 50th parallel,
sends out a general call, then tries to sort out
the pile-up calling him. To the followers of
this hobby Storer is a new country, but it’s
not easy contacting him through the ionospheric
storms and auroral disturbances.
At 28, he can boast two stretches of duty in
Australia’s Antarctic outposts, first at Macquarie
Island two years ago. Former Sparks with the
R.A.N., he saw service in the South-West
Pacific; his feet have been itchy ever since.
Australian amateur radio-operators who have
talked with him heard a thrilling tale of his
recent trip with three others to the Scullin
Monolith to the east of the base, where gales
almost forced them to remain on the pack-ice
till the spring. Due to return to Australia in
February, Storer will Jbe busy franking thousands
of philatelic envelopes before his departure.
His is the southernmost post-office and amateur
radio-station in the world —1500 miles from the
Pole.
• •
Received one of the highest distinctions
at the recent degree-conferring at Mel-
bourne University, Dr. Keith Farrer, a
young biochemist, of Blackburn (Vic.).
First as research-chemist, later as con-
troller of research and laboratory work
at Kraft Foods, he studied the vitamin
business •in cheese and yeast products ;
his discovery that lack of vitamin B 1 in
the diet was probably the chief cause of
nervous complaints earned him a Doctor-
ate of Science.
• •
“W.E.F.”: Passed on at Yass (N.S.W,),
at 79, Bert Mudge, old-time Sydney press-
man and part-owner of the local
“Tribune-Courier.” For an 11-years
term he looked after the “S. M. Herald”
land pages, then went to Sydney “Sun”
as Parliamentary roundsman. He was
one of the founders of the Australian
Journalists’ Association, and was the
foundation-president of the old Sydney
Press Club. Leaving Sydney in 1922, he
became owner of the Inverell (N.S.W.)
“Argus.” Five years later he moved to
Yass, acquired the “Evening Tribune”
and the “Courier”
there and amalga-
mated them. He
wrote short stories
for The Bulletin,
often supplying his
own illustrations, as
well as contributing
humorous drawings
and cartoons.
• •
“Eight Bells”:
Tourist visitors to
Launceston’s Queen
Victoria Museum
will miss a familiar
figure in caretaker
Alfred Gambrill,
calling it la day after
15 years of introduc-
ing people to the
Chinese joss-house,
old whaling relics
and such. Born in
Canterbury (Eng.) in
1881, he joined the
Royal Navy at 15
and came to Aus-
tralia in 1908 in a
British warship. Four
years later he trans-
ferred to the R.A.N.,
gunnery - instructor,
was afloat in War I,
and in 1919 joined
the instructing staff
of the R.A.N. Re-
serve. He came to Tasmania 13 years
later to teach gunnery to naval reservists
in Hobart and Launceston, left the Service
in 1932 and took on his job at the
museum. With a store of salty dits of
when he trod the decks of Queensland’s
old gunboat, he was able, as well, to
discourse on such things as grandfather-
clocks and specimens of convict art. Re-
cently he’s been made a life-member of
the Tasmanian Ex-Navalmen’s Asso-
ciation.
Professor of Physiology at Melbourne
University from 1903 to 1938, and author
of a pile of books on his subject, as well
as poems and essays, W. A. Osborne can
still handle a punch— at 81. He said at
the Health Inspectors’ Conference in Mel-
bourne; “Teaching is imparting know-
ledge from where it is to where it isn’t;
examinations are imparting knowledge
from where it isn’t back to where it is.”
Born in Northern Ireland, Professor
Osborne had a distinguished career in
England before he came to Melbourne.
His essays and literary sketches are not-
able for lively humor. His recreation is
listed as outdoor country life —he farms
at Kangaroo Ground, 20 miles from
Melbourne.
• •
In Australia on a consultative mission
and to be Air Force Week guest, Marshal
of the R.A.F. Sir John Cotesworth
Slessor, G.C.8., D. 5.0., M.C., one of 12
who never retire from the Air Force,
being permanent consultants. He learnt
to fly at 18 in two months, then stood-by
for the zeppelins Wilhelm sent over
London. That was in 1915 ; in 1916 he
was invalided from the Middle East with
a leg wound, the effects of which he still
carries in the form of a limp, but went
to France in the next year. Since then
he has collected D.S.O. in Waziristan,
commanded No. 5 Bombing Group (in
1941, when things were on a knife-edge),
bossed Coastal Command at ,the height of
the submarine-menace and served in the
Mediterranean —he was there at the war’s
end. Slessor succeeded Sir William Slim
as head of the Imperial Defence College
in 1948 and has written two books on his
favorite theme—co-ordinating the work of
ground and air forces. Born in India, son
of a major in the Sherwood Foresters.
• •
So far as the oldest inhabitant in the
office can recall, no one as tall as Edward
Costello, shown here by Scorfield as the
Light Horseman he was 3'6 years ago, has
ever climbed The Bulletin stairs.
Reaching 6ft. 6|in., Major Costello, in
Sydney representing St. Andrew’s, War-
wick (Q.), at a Presbyterian General
Assembly, recalled an “Other Fellow’s
Mind” article printed last year that made
reference to the first charge by the A.L.H.
after being armed with the long cavalry
sword, near the village of Semakh, at the
southerly end of the Sea of Galilee, in
1918. Costello was in that charge with
the 11th Light Horse, and he was in
second Gaza, at Beersheba, and at
Damascus at the finish of the Pales-
tine campaign. He was also present
at the evacuation of Gallipoli and col-
lected the D.S.O. A Queenslander, he
comes from North Ireland stock, and was
on the land before World War I. In
1908 he made a trip to England and
returned to Australia in the same boat
as Jack Johnson, on his way to fight
CAVALRY
Tommy Burns for the world’s heavy-
weight championship. On the voyage
out he became one of the colored boxer’s
sparring-partners. The Kaiser’s war over,
Costello returned to the land —he has a
sheep-and-cattle property at Thane (Q.)
—and entered the Queensland Legislative
Assembly as a Country-party member for
Carnarvon, a seat he held for 15 years.
He also commanded the 11th Light
Horse Regiment (C.M.F.) on the Darling
Downs for four years.
“Morehead”: This paragraphist and artist
Red Moore called at the Sydney Coroner’s
Court, an unpretentious red-brick building in
historic George-street North, located between
the Flying Angel Club and the Sailors’ Home,
with a pub conveniently opposite and the City
Morgue at the rear. There was met the City
Coroner, Frank McNamara, a pleasant, grey-
haired fellow of nuggety build, presented here
in his more ministerial mood.
The office of coroner, we learned, was estab-
lished in N.S.W., by letters-patent dated 1787
—before the First Fleet sailed. He holds
inquiries into the causes of violent or unnatural
deaths, of deaths in jails, asylums or in mines
and into the origin of fires causing damage or
CORONER
destruction to property —he conducts about 800
inquiries every year.
McNamara is a Sydneysider in his early
fifties, who joined the public service at 19 as
a clerk in the Petty Sessions Branch. In 1948
he was commissioned as a Stipendiary Magis-
trate and took over his present post from
E. J. Forrest about six months ago. As clerk
and magistrate he has been all over N. S. Wales,
“from Manly to Broken Hill, from Murwillum-
bah to Albury, from Angledool to Wentworth.”
Describing a journey up the Darling from
Wentworth to Wilcannia, stopping at Pooncarie
and Menindee, he grew lyrical about the gnarled
and twisted trees that line the river-bank.
Writer remarked that the corpse in Henry
Lawson’s story “The Union Buries Its Dead” —
the body was found on the bank of the Darling
—seemed to have been hastened to its grave
without a coroner’s inquiry. Mr. McNamara
could not understand how that could happen.
Lately McNamara has been in the news. He
presided over the Arthur Griffith inquest in
which Sydney model Shirley Beiger was involved,
and has also admonished the N.S.W. railway
authorities for not installing automatic safety-
doors on electric trains.
We left the City Coroner after admiring a
photograph of him in the jersey of a Rugby
League football referee taken when he was a
young man in the Richmond River district.
Even then he had an air of judicial calm about
him.
• •
Sydneysider Charles Pike gets the Com-
monwealth Public Service Board’s first
scholarship for the overseas study of
television, sound - broadcasting and
acoustics. A science and engineering
graduate of Sydney University (honors in
electrical-engineering). Pike engineers
with the A.8.C., and designed arid
installed the studio-equipment for the
world-wide Queen’s broadcast last
Christmas. He’s headed for the 8.8. C.,
British post-office and electrical manufac-
turers over there, with a probable look-in
on the U.S.
« •
Into the Silence:
At Te Awamutu (N.Z.), at 87, Max Straubel,
Government surveyor and civil-engineer. Born
in Melbourne, son of Bernhardt Straubel, one-
time designing engineer for Victorian Railways,
before crossing the Tasman in 1903 he had
been road-engineer at Wagga (N.S.W.), road-
surveyor in Broken Hill, and had made a
marine survey of part of the Queensland coast
and the Barrier Reef. A skilled draftsman, he
furnished Scott with maps and charts for the
explorer’s last Antarctic expedition.
In London, Colonel G. Wishart Will, a
native of Otago (N.Z.) who shipped to England
in 1912 to study mental diseases. M.O. of
an East Lancashire regiment in War I, after
it medical specialist to the R.A.M.C. in India,
he was chairman of the senior medical board
in England in War 11, and edited the Royal
Medical Corps journal.
In Cardiff (Wales), Rev. A. Penry Evans,
who occupied the pulpit of Collins-street Inde-
pendent Church, in Melbourne, from 1929 to
1946. He was regarded as one of the Congre-
gational Church’s most influential preachers.
In Melbourne, Arthur Perry, doyen of local
justices, chairman of the Honorary Justices
Association and holder of the association’s only
life-membership. Chairman of the Jury Re-
vision Court, he was known tp droves of
unfortunates for encouraging advice from me
Melbourne City Court for many years. Found
time, as well, for work on the Melba I rust
(honorary treasurer and trustee), and tne
Morgan and Mary Ann Patterson Bequests.
At 69, in Melbourne, Dr. Frank Scholes, a
world authority on polio, plagues and fevers.
In Darwin, at 66, Thomas Alexander Wells,
whose address is listed in Who’s Who as simply
“Darwin.” It was sufficient; for m o re
20 years he had been Judge of the Northern
Territory, and was known throughout ms vas
circuit as a frequent temperer of justice wit
mercy. After the first Darwin air-raid, n
humanely ordered the release of all
Bay Jail prisoners in case of a direct hit on m
crowded quarters. On the N.S.W Supreme
Court reporting staff when War I broke ci ,
he enlisted as a gunner, got his sergeant s strip
and after the Armistice returned to COUI c t . v
time by way of an LL.B. degree from Sy >
University.


THE MIDGET


ABORIGINALITIES
outback pubs still carry,
■**' tucked away below the bar, what
we used to call “the bushman’s bottle”?
Though I’ve never seen or sampled it,
I’ve seen what I was told were its results
—and from these, I’d say the hellbrew
was the result of some primitive experi-
ments in the field of nuclear fission, A
dose secretly conveyed into the glass of
some drunk who’d reached the pestifer-
ous stage was believed to reduce him to
a stunned condition, in which he was
easily propelled on his way. It was only
later, when the first effects wore off, that
the fireworks really started, and then all
hands and the cook had to swing into
action to control the berserk result. I
used to doubt the existence and the
efficacy of the potion—until the night
we spent a couple of hours holding
down a gentleman who’d only been drink-
ing from 6 p.m. until 10—and in my
circle ,at that time a four-hour
session was considered nothing but a
mere practice-gallop for a really good
party. —“Warrabulla.”
* * * *
“Crunch”: Inevitable that Russia
should discover a guided-missile which
has been in the possession of the West
for some time. This was the original
guided-weapon, although some authori-
ties believe it was preceded by the stone.
Russian archaeologists have discovered it
in a 4000-year-old dwelling-site in
Latvia —a boomerang.
* * * *
“Tidbinbiila”: Typical comment from
bright young things viewing stars through
a high-powered telescope for the first
time: “Oh, how wonderful! They look
so close, and I can see blue flames shoot-
ing out of them!” Sadly the demonstra-
tor explains that the stars look closer
only because of limitations in the tele-
scope. They are so far away that they
would appear as points in an ideal tele-
scope. The shimmering blue halo is
illusory, too. The lenses of the telescope
are elaborately designed to focus the red,
orange, yellow and green rays, but they
can’t cope with the blue and violet at the
same time. Scintillation produced by the
earth’s atmosphere completes the illusion
of flames. The hostile query “Then what’s
the good of having a telescope at all?”
is sufficiently answered by providing a
view of the surface markings on Mars
or Jupiter or the craters on the moon.
* * * *
“Wandana”; An Aussie who served in
New Guinea War II showed me a trophy
he’d found in a native hut. Apparently
the diary of an American seaman, it is
dated 1835, and carries some interesting
contemporary information. One item
concerns the figurehead of the “Old Iron-
sides”—the 200 ft. wooden ship Constitu-
tion, of 66 guns, built for the American
Navy. The diarist saw her just after she’d
made her debut, and speaks of “the cele-
brated figurehead which gave so much
food for criticism in the American
papers.” He describes it as a full-length
figure of General Jackson, bareheaded,
his face of “an ashy white color,” caus-
ing the writer to suggest that he had the
appearance of having just died of the
cholera. “The whole image is a complete
burlesque,” says the diary. And yet
American figurehead-carvers were noted
for their handicraft. Did this criticism
come from some party of castaways who
lost their ship round those tricky waters
a century ago?
* * * *
“Uramao”: Ten years ago, while J.
Sorenson was at the Campbell Islands,
some 400 miles south of New Zealand —
a meteorological party is now stationed
there—he caught a Royal Albatross and
ringed it. Recently the director of the
Museum of Natural History at Santiago
(U.S.A.) informed the curator of the
Southland Museum, Invercargill (N.Z.),
that the albatross had been found off
the coast of Chile. That confirms the
theory propounded some years ago by
Dr. Cushman Murphy, when he visited
N.Z., that the Royal Albatross migrated
each year to South America. The theory
was doubted at the time.
* * ♦ *
“An Chuidh” : It is likely that the word
“shanghai” (B. 1/9/’54) had a Celtic
origin. The Gaelic seangan and the
Scottish shangan have the same pronun-
ciation and meaning: a cleft stick, the
basic necessity of the shanghai. There
are several Scottish words beginning
with “shang” which are variations of the
cleft- or forked-stick idea. But where
the “hai” comes from I haven’t a clue.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Many attempts have been
made to hatch-out in captivity eggs of
New Zealand’s unique reptile the tuatara,
but the youngsters have survived only a
few weeks. Now, however, W. H. I.
Dawbin, lecturer in zoology at Victoria
University College, Wellington, has
brought it off. Dawbin set 14 eggs, the
size, shape and color of tennis-balls,
which he collected on Stephen’s Island
in Cook Strait. After 14 months a
youngster hacked its way out by the
pointed snout-cutter Nature provided it
with. I’wo months later a companion
made its bow in its sleepy manner. The
diet provided consists of wood-lice.
"Look —one of them things for mixin' whitewash in!”
worms, snails and slugs. Unlike elderly
tuataras, who are hermit-like in habit
and rather comatose, the young are quite
playful.
* * * *
“Emjai”: Old Dan’lo had been on the
property back in Johnny Mangan’s
father’s time, and seemed an old man
then, and was still with Johnny, who was
pushing on past middle-age. Goodness
knows what his age would be, but he
was still sharp as a needle; a little bent
old Irishman, with his fringe of grey
whiskers and the ancient
corbeen on his bald head,
pottering about amongst
the pigs and the “bins,”
dossing in his hut behind
the barn, but invariably
finding his way at meal-
times to his corner in the
big farm-kitchen which
was also the universal
meal-room for the family
and visitors. The neigh-
bors knew and accepted
Dan’lo, dirty though he
might be, but he was an
embarrassment to Mrs,
Johnny when a couple of
elite ladies joined the
group at afternoon-tea and
Dan’lo had shuffled in for
his “soop o’ tay” and to
listen and chuckle at the
“talkin’ an’ crackin’.”
Heads were together dis-
cussing intimate details of
a new arrival in one of the
families, and Dan’lo, strain
as he might, was missing
bits of die gossip. He
could stand it no longer,
and his thin little squeak
piped up: “Spake oop!
Spake oop! Mrs. Johnny,
make ’em spake oop. A
body wouldn’t be knowin’
whose sow ’twould be that
’ud be farrowin’.”
* * *
“Sackville”; I must have
been nearly 14 before I
even heard of a grey-
hound ; then I argued:
“That, a greyhound? Why,
it’s only a little kangaroo-
dog!” Which was what
they were always called in
my youth. I was reminded of
this while reading Hunter, an
account of big-game shooting in
Kenya, by, appropriately, one J. A.
Hunter. The safari comes upon a remote
little ranch, the English owner of which
had just died, leaving “a fine pack of
Australian kangaroo-hounds that Captain
Hurst had used for lion-hunting. These
great dogs resembled large, rough-coated
greyhounds,” That “rough-coated” had
me thinking, because we used to call
mongs answering that description “Rus-
sian stag-hounds”; but the dogs acted
like Aussie ’roo-dogs. They chased the
lion till he bailed up, then encircled him.
When the lion charged, the circle opened,
allowing him to pass through; then they
followed and encircled him again, till
the ihunter got close enough to
place his shot. Not sport? It’s not sup-
posed to be. The author shot lions for
the same reason that Aussie shooters
shoot ’roos —the skin-money.
♦ * ♦ *
“Spin”: My Perth paper published a
story of some tree-seedlings which were
sent to the country in an ordinary
envelope and later grew to become
“giants.” Turns out they were tree-
lucerne, which grows to a maximum of
20ft. or so and has a trunk of a few
inches in diameter; and it further appears
that farmers value it because it supplies
“nourishing greenstuff for stock in late
summer months,” but they’d had “diffi-
culty in obtaining adequate seedlings.”
Someone’s pulling someone’s leg. The
edible greenstuff from a full-sized tree-
lucerne, although tasty and nourishing,
wouldn’t supply a feed for one cow ; and
any farmer who wanted to grow the trees
could get all the seeds he wanted from
around Perth. These forest “giants” are
often grown in suburban hedges, and
the seedlings, which spring up in
hundreds, are something of a nuisance
in the lawns. Still, farmers might
find it worth while planting them.
They blossom profusely, and their
white blooms supply the finest
honey I’ve ever tasted. There’s a catch,
though. They only live about eight years.
* * * •
“Dustman”: After investigation, a
delegate to the International Con-
gress of Orientalism at Cambridge
estimates that a carved image of
a Chinese god found in Darwin in
1879 was left there before 1670. The
image was found about 4ft. below the
surface, embedded in the roots of a
banyan, which suggests that it was on
the surface when the tree took root; and
the tree is reliably estimated to be over
230 years old. Hence, the investigator
suggests that Asiatics may have landed on
this continent before Cook did. I’ve
always taken that for granted. The
Malays were almost certainly frequent
visitors, and probably planted the pohon-
pine which grows around some of the
northern bays. The Chinese were sailors.
“What’s wrong? It won’t bite you!"
and had probably the world’s biggest fleet
long before Drake sailed around the
Globe. Even the Japs, miles behind the
Chinese in those days, were seafarers.
One noted Jap pirate, Magamasa. is
credited with having attacked Spanish
ships trading to the Philippines in the
1620’s, and he is thought to have landed
on the North Queensland coast. Any of
a number of visitors could have left that
image.
* * * *
THE VANISHED JACKEROO
ADD to the casualties caused by the
break-up of the big stations the old-
time jackeroo—the dinkum article, not
the part-rouseabout, part farm-hand
whose status is marked only by the fact
that he eats with the family and goes to
the picnic -races.
The lad I mean lived, with others of
his kind, in the “bachelor-quarters” with
the overseer and the bookkeeper, and
with them ate in a separate mess. He
worked as hard as, if not harder than, the
station-hands, and did all the dirty jobs
they might refuse, but after a year or so
he was something of a “pannikin-boss”
and took the responsibility in the absence
of anybody senior—and the blame if
things went wrong. .
In the camp he was one with the men
—up to a point—which was just the little
difference that enabled him to take all
their slinging-off at “paper-collars”; he
knew that in a crisis they’d look to him
for a lead and he’d give it.
Once or twice a year, perhaps, he dined
at “Government House” ; he was on tap
to make the numbers at tennis and
handed round cakes at afternoon-tea. He
also went to town at times and got
gloriously full and embroiled in pranks
that might cost three-months’ pay—and
worth every penny of it.
He and his fellow-jackeroos borrowed
one another’s clothes without asking, and
money by simply asking ; they combined
to save susceptible members from design-
ing females and backed one another up
in any kind of trouble. _ „ ,
They were out for “experience, a
got plenty —and a few years of that u
of life with half a dozen of the best
fellows you’d find anywhere in us
is an experience I, for one, will
regret. q
THE ART OF COOKING WIRRAH
If you’d like to cook a wirrah
(It’s a fine Australian fish)
You must cut a bit of sapling
To make yourself a dish.
Then tie the wirrah firmly
To the wood with bits of string,
And butter it, and pepper it
Until your eyeballs sting.
Then place in your camp-oven
And cook with tender care
An hour or so; then open;
The odor will be rare.
If you’ve followed the instructions
It can’t help being good,
So you throw away the wirrah,
And—well, you eat the wood.
Then as you chew you wonder,
And maybe, friend, you wish. . .
But, of course, you’re not a newchum,
Or you’d try to eat the fish!
N.s.w.
I. C. E.


•;
iHH
m
; :0
mra is
:M3
Does
your
chid
hove a
blind faith
in
YOU?
Margaret Turner believes her father is the “Daddy of
them all. With good reasons too! Listen to this gripping
radio drama of how the Rev. John Turner risks his repu-
tation to prove his faith in human nature every Friday
night at 8.30 p.m. in the dramatic life story of—
“JOHN TURNER’S FAMILY”
PRESENTED BY WRIGLEY'S ON
2GB - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2CA 2WL 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
3ie MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
WW forma kr
*‘W hen they mar\ you and tail you. my deart,'
I’ll be saved many worries and fears
If the \nife they don’t use
But Elastrator they choose.
You'll bless that decision for years.’*
The "Elastrator" Ring is rapidly superseding the knife
for marking and tailing because stockowners have
proved that it ensures considerably reduced losses and
easily and quickly applied.
Elastrator Instrument . . .. £6/6/-. plus freight
Elastrator Rings (500) ~ .. .. 30/-. plus freight
Available from all Wool Houses, Stock and
Station Agents, and Stores throughout Aus-
tralia—a product of Elastrator (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., 125 William Street, Melbourne.
much less risk of fly-strike. It saves time, too, for it is
Elastrator Loader
£5/5/-, plus freight
* * * *
'T'HE aborigine has a faithful cham-
pion in a middle-aged recluse who
lives in the Dandenong Ranges (Vic.).
His log-cabin, on the steep mountainside
just off a main road, is surrounded with
clay effigies of abos in all sizes and
postures. Empanelled in adjacent rocks
are small bas-reliefs of bucks, lubras and
piccaninnies, all in clay. The kiln for
the baking stands near by. The sculptor
is rarely seen by curious visitors; but
a money-box and a notice in a prominent
position (with a special pigeonhole for
cheques!) invite contributions to his
welfare. Local legend claims that the
hermit once lived among and experi-
enced the kindness of the people he is
attempting to immortalise.—“Balwyn.”
* * * *
“P.K.”; The canecutting competition
—one was held as part of the recent
Mossman (N.Q.) district show—bids fair
to rival woodchopping as a sport. Yet I
doubt if either comes up to the old hand-
contests. Milk-maids, with
buckets and stools, lined up to a row of
I.M.S. and milked flat-out from gong to
gong—five minutes. There was keen
barracking as milk hissed into the buckets
and the froth rose mightily. Winner
declared on weight of milk.
“Take plugs out of your ears and mine tinkit you hear something .”
“J.J.A.”: The northern rata of the
New Zealand rain-forests begins life as
an aerial growth high up on the branches
of a host tree, gradually putting its roots
down to the earth until it finally becomes
a forest giant. Section of one tree in
the Auckland Museum has a 10ft. dia-
meter. Strangely enough, if one is planted
as a seed it never attains a height of
more than Bft.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The quiz question was,
“What is the most highly developed
animal?” and the contestant, after hesi-
tating between the monkey and the horse,
finally took the quizmaster’s hint and
said “Man.” I’d say the answer was
wrong. Physically, man must be one
of the most primitive animals; it’s to
this he owes his supremacy in the world.
Take the horse. At one time it had five
toes, like man. Then it evolved along
specialised lines, developed the one toe,
hardened it to a hoof, and gained in speed
and mobility. It may have lost heavily
in other directions, but it has survived,
and it may yet outlive man. Then, take
sight. How primitive are human eyes
compared with, say, those ,of a land-
crab, which can move independently of
each other, or with those of some insects,
which have compound eyes. Composed
of thousands of minute eyes, these optical
wonders enable their owners to see all
ways at once. Bees, ants and owls can
see colors such as ultra-violet and infra-
red which man has to use instruments to
detect. In fact, man is so darned primi-
tive he’s had to develop an intellect to
survive at all.
* * * ♦
“Flight”: Architect and builder of
fowldom’s most ornate nest is the sun-
bird, whose habitat is north of Capri-
corn. Of woven fibre and the size of a
cricket-ball, the nest has an entrance in
front, a veranda on the lip of the en-
trance, and a porch over that. It also
has a “tail” to it, made of a plaited rope
of teased-bark, twigs, cobwebs and other
odd ends, some 18in. long. I’ve seen
those domiciles hung on twigs of lantana,
over door-lintels and in sheds. Also I’ve
seen the waistcoat of the brilliantly
plumaged cock-bird portrayed by one
artist an azure-purple, by another jet-
black. Both were right. The color
changes, depending on the angle from
which the Australian humming-bird (its
other name) is viewed.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Not only the wool-wagons
have gone before the “roaring diesel-
engined transports” (B. 25/8/’54); the
droving-plants are going, too, except in
the far outback. You can run your new-
bought wethers aboard a trailer in the
morning and have them off at sundown
more miles away than they’d have walked
in a month in the old days. You’ll have
your tea at the homestead instead of in
the drovers’ camp at the Five-Mile, but
whether the tucker will taste any better
than chops and damper in the dark of
early morning, with the cook’s fire flaring
in the breeze and the horsebells jangling
down by the waterhole, is another matter.
It’s called Progress . , . and it’s time to
hop into that ute or it’ll get ahead of
you!
* * * *
“Alpha-Lyrae”: Among old mining-
towns proud of their early history
Gympie (Q.) must surely hold pride of
place with its three public memorials,
all identically inscribed, to the man who
first found gold in the locality in 1867.
A plaque on the Town Hall proclaims
the dedication of that august structure
to his memory; half a mile away, in
Memorial Park, a drinking-fountain
declares the same facts in the same terms.
At Five Ways, in the centre of the town,
a great block of granite, recently erected
on an island in the roadway, repeats
the identical terms in large gilt letters.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bass”: “Big Ted’s” testimony, that
the kangaroo he watched aided her new-
born joey by using her forepaws to hold
the mouth of the pouch open, confirms
what I’ve contended. When she followed
it in with her snout she was no doubt
helping it to attach itself to a teat; and
though she allowed it to make its own
way up to the pouch, she had assisted it in
that journey by licking a path through
the fur. In other words, she did all that
was necessary to ensure that it reached its
destination, and I maintain that it’s logi-
cal to assume she would have done more
had it been necessary. Presumably, in
this case the joey had ample time to make
the trip ; but if danger threatened when it
was, say, halfway there, I think the
mother would have lifted it in with paws
or mouth rather than clear off and leave
it to a marauder.
“GOING UP TOP”
(The people of the Lower South Coast of Ne l
South Wales refer to the Monaro as “Up Top.”)
A lifetime slips by on the road
From Sega up to Jindabyne.
This little world, so young, so green,
Shows paint-box dabs of sea, between
Wee farms straight out of story-books,
With polished cows and pretty brooks.
Along Bemboka]s gentle slopes
The road winds on so charmingly
Through bracken-clumps, neat fields, excess
Of eucalypts, you’d never guess,
Save by the quickening in the lungs,
You’re on Brown Mountain’s lower rungs.
And then you’re in a wonderland,
Each mile too short, each step too slow; •
Where every corner calls: “This way!”
And every tree-fern dell says “Stay,!”
Where white clematis stars the trail
And spreads her perfumed bridal-veil;
Where, tuned to magic, you may hear
The lyrebird’s call, may see him even;
Where wild-flowers- bloom, but some instead
Have blue of wrens or robins’ red.
At length you reach a jutting glade
With shelves of seaward view displayed.
As counterpart to beauty near.
A scene no lovelier could be thought.
A silent breathing stirs the sky:
The glad young earth’s fulfilment-sigh.
Intoxicated, you will say;
“Here is perfection, here I stay!”
The winding road leaves this behind;
The flowers are fewer. You will find
Drifts of snow in the culverts’ lee.
Past a last screen of frees, you see
(Aware of only lack at first)
A wilderness, a land accurst.
Upon a hummocked plateau, where
Chill winds are wailing beauty lost,
A lone, rachitic swamp-oak shocks.
No flowers, no ferns, no spring-wet rocks!
But the new scene and atmosphere
Adjust the eye and buzzing ear.
You’ll find the wind has other songs,
The air is like a clear, light wine;
In this gaunt land is beauty hiding:
Sheep in a flock like carpet sliding
Softly down a velvet hill;
A sky-blue, frosty creek; the still
Of crystal nights, where the freed stars
Are all that matter in the world
When you can love vast larkspur skies;
The dour road leads on to a rise,
Where, with stopped breath and draining
cheeks,
You first catch sight of snow-gemmed
peaks.
N.S.W.
AGNES MILLROSE.


Fuiiti in the
Future
It is Sunday morning in New Guinea as these
lines are written. Morning, literally and in figure, for
as surely as the sun has come up today across the
Pacific, the dawn for these islands north of Australia
is just breaking.
From somewhere in Lae I hear a church bell
ringing. It reminds me—so strangely does a sound
stir the memory—of the chimes I heard at Oxford
when I was not yet 20.
Down through the ages mankind has been using
a bell. Rich in its instant tone, sonorous in its
reverberation, it has ordered and conditioned the lives
of countless millions by its pealing.
It has called men to prayer. It has rung out
joyful tidings, punctuated the story of centuries. In
towers and steeples it has influenced some of the
noblest Church architecture in the world.
I believe cathedral bells will ring here some day,
in the midst of tropic cities where now there are only
small outposts in civilisation. History is full of such
changes which Time has wrought.
The great cities of South America stand today
where once a small band of missionaries brought
religion to people at the edge of a wilderness . . .
In the jungle behind Lae are tall timbers —cedars
and silver ash, which Caterpillar tractors are taking
out in 100-feet lengths. To see the operation is to
sense this country's richness, to feel that here indeed
is something in the making.
All around, in the forest, is the smell of damp
earth soaked from the nightly rains and sheltered ever
from the sun; of leaves and undergrowth pungent in
their moist luxuriance.
This is Australia’s sister land, with all its colour, all
its resources in timber and crops and minerals, all its
protective presence in a world that expects us to
defend and develop it . . .
Now the day comes up, the bells are ringing out
Time. And the hour is ours.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
fsd
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO-BAKKERB
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BABBEEE DISTBIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8x), 248 Elizabeth St., Sydney
By Appointment
to H. M. King
frederik IX
By Appointment,
to the late
Kins Georgs VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment!
to W. M. the .j
Queen of the
. Netherlands
T*M >»mi •.•mm-• *■*
{hi; ;i;«<*»u*itai«
cum MW*
55T'
£?t
1; »«d6uci or o«»“**•
fet.
tJpiuiSi!
Sines 1818 Denmark*
liqueur delight
V rtflfciv
Sfor your after
. dinner enjoymenf
(Mr.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & HORNDALE PTY. LTD.
Business. Rollery. etc.
PENSIONS AND DIVIDENDS
'THE fact that company earn-
-*■ ings and dividends have been
generally higher in respect of
1953-54 has already attracted
the envious and usually shallow
criticism of some observers.
These dividend-increases and
occasional bonuses happen to
have come along at a time when
there has been no lift in the rate
of the old-age pension (at present
£3 10s. a week), and the Opposi-
tion members in the Federal
House, with one or two notable
exceptions, have not failed to
exploit the contrast in order to
create the greatest confusion
and feeling possible.
The critics don’t mention the
fact that during a 15-year period
(from 1938-39 to 1953-54) in
which pensions rose from £1 to
£3 10s. a week, and all social-
security payments increased from
£3O million a year to £2lB million
a year (a sevenfold increase).
company dividends grew from
£25 million a year to £B5 million
a year—an increase to less than
3i times their former size.
It should stagger many critics
to learn that in 1938-39 invalid
and old-age pensioners got £l6
million, against £25 million paid
to shareholders in dividends,
whereas in 1953-54 these
pensioners got £Bl million
(apart from £6.6 million in
widows’ pensions) and company
shareholders £B5 million.
In 1953-54, in fact, pensioners
(excluding war-pensioners, who
were paid £39 million) received
more than the dividends paid to
all those people who own and
control the whole of incorporated
industry! And that includes
B. General Motors-Holden’s,
C. British Tobacco and the
rest.
During the present year (1954-
55) the cost of old-age pensions
is put at £91.5 million (up £10.2
million), widows’ pensions £7.3
million (up £724,000) and war
pensions at £42 million (up £2.7
million). Total social-security
benefits (apart from the war
pensions) are set down at £193
million, an increase of £16.8
million. Over half the social-
security charges are made up of
age, invalid and widows’
pensions.
Obviously all these social-
security benefits have to be paid
for by the producers in the com-
munity. Those who earn income,
whether from personal exertion
or investment, provide the taxes
which finance pensions, child-
endowment, hospital and medical
benefits, etc. And it is of interest
to note that during 1953-54 com-
panies paid £134 million in
income-taxes, while the estimate
for the present year is £159
million.
Before paying income-tax,
companies in 1943-45 made a
net profit of £415 million (com-
pared with £B4 million in 1938-
39). Company income (before
tax) has increased at slightly less
than the rate at which wages and
salaries have grown since World
War II started. (Wages, salaries,
etc,, have increased from £445
million a year to £2176 million
a year during the 15 years.)
A thing to be noted particu-
larly is that, while company
earnings, before income-tax, have
increased to just under five times
their pre-war level (in money
terms), dividends paid to share-
holders have grown to some-
thing less than three-and-a-half
times their pre-war figure.
Company income-tax is much
heavier now than before the war,
and dividends are taxed again
without rebate in the hands of
shareholders. But, apart from
the bigger scoop of taxation
taken out of company earnings
to meet social-security, defence
and other charges, conditions
have made it necessary for indus-
trial companies to plough-back
considerably more of their profits
in order to increase the rate of
production from their plant.
In 1938-39 companies distri-
buted 30 p.c. of their profits
(before tax) to their shareholders.
In 1953-54 the proportion had
dropped to 25 p.c.
Partly as a result of this drop,
after paying increased taxes,
companies were able last year
to reinvest £174 million of undis-
tributed profits in working and
other assets, compared with £37
million in 1938-39. In addition,
in almost every year since the
war there has been a heavy call
for new capital investment from
shareholders and others in order
to provide industry with modern
equipment.
In its last report on Australian
manufacturing industry the
Division of Industrial Develop-
ment expressed the opinion that
average output per worker had
never been greater.
Clearly, if this is so, the higher
output has been achieved only
through improved mechanical
efficiency and, perhaps, sustained
demand for factory output.
What makes this so obvious is
the fact that the 40-hour week
has operated since 1948, and
factory-workers spend at least
10 p.c. less time on the job (per
week or per year) than they
did six years ago. They work
no harder than they used to dur-
ing their hours of work. Only,
then, by increased mechanical
efficiency and improved manage-
ment have the adverse effects of
the 40-hour week been overcome.
The Australian economy has
passed through a period of great
strain since war began. Our
even-then backward manufactur-
ing industries were run-down in
the war-time effort which put
victory in front of other
economic considerations. After
the war heavy taxation and price-
control made it extremely diffi-
cult for companies to earn
enough to replace worn-out
assets and provide for the expan-
sion which an increasing popula-
tion and a clamor for higher
general living - standards de-
manded. Nor could company-
shareholders help very much.
The buying-power of their
dividends fell away sharply, and
their capacity to reinvest was
very restricted.
One thing in particular helped
to save Australian industry from
becoming as decrepit as the
State-owned railways: it was the
high income received overseas for
our wool and wheat exports,
which enabled many landmen to
put new capital into urban indus-
tries, Without the investment of
surplus wool- and wheat-money
it is hard to see how secondary
industry could have made the
recovery that it has. And it was
the foreign currency derived
from land-product exports which
made the import of much
machinery possible.
Inflation has played tricks
with most money-figures, and to
compare 1953-54 with 1938-39
generally calls for division by
three. Also, in aggregate figures,
increased population —• from
seven million to over nine million
—has to be accounted for. But
any conscientious and intelligent
analysis will show that pensions
and other costs in the Welfare
State have increased at a greater
rate than dividends to share-
holders in productive industry.
And it is only a prosperous and
highly productive industry
which will permit pensions with
even their present buying-power
to be continued. That is, unless
some other charges on the
National Welfare Fund are
reduced and the saving trans-
ferred to the pensioners.
B.H.P. Rights
v Anyone seeking a sound
longish-term investment could
hardly do better than buy
B.H.P. rights at Bs.-9s. There is
30s. to pay on them.
Oil-drilling
In W-A. drilling by Wapet on
the new site at Cape Range has
been going on at a fast pace, and
at the weekend the new
hole had reached over 3000 ft.,
with slight traces of gas show-
ing. Boring at Rough Range
No. 1 has been resumed, and
the drill was down to 9914 ft.
Rough Range No. 3 is being
prepared for spudding-in.
In Papua the sidetracked hole
at Omati No. 1 is being cleaned
out preparatory to drilling,
upper leaks in the casing having
been sealed. No drilling was
carried out at Omati No. 2 dur-
ing the month, the depth remain-
ing at 7500 ft. The “heaving
shale” in Papua remains a
drilling problem.
At Reid’s Dome, in Queens-
land, Australasian Oil Explora-
tion is boring at a fairly fast
rate, and some flow of gas has
been reported from around 500 ft.
Its significance, if any, is not
apparent.
Drilling activity in W.A. has
stimulated the Ampol market,
and, after some gloom about
drilling difficulties in Papua, Oil
Search shares have recovered to
255.
It is likely that favorable
reports from either the oil or
uranium fields will be needed
soon to sustain interest in mining
shares at its present level.
As Fur As It Can Go?
A limit is being placed on
bank-advances to some con-
sumer-credit concerns, as already
tipped here, and it may not be so
easy as it was for time-payment
houses to get note and debenture
accommodation from the public.
The boom in term-sales may
“have gone about as fur as it
can go” for the time being.
If the present level of time-
payment accommodation is
maintained —and repayments and
reserved profits should permit
something of the kind —it would
still sustain a high rate of turn-
over in refrigerators, washing-
machines and motor-cars. The
motor-car industry in particular
has dropped a long way behind
in deliveries of some makes and
models, such has been the
demand during the past year.
But, clearly,* there are limits
to the people’s capacity to keep
on buying some manufactures
of a “near-capital” order
whether for cash or on reason-
able terms.
Trade Deficit
During July and August Aus-
tralia had an unfavorable bal-
ance of external trade amount-
ing to £4O million. In the same
period of last year there was a
favorable balance of £26 million.
Exports in August were the
lowest for two years.
There have been unfavorable
balances in Australia’s trade for
four successive months. The
new season’s wool should bring
an improvement in export-
figures soon, but imports are on
the rise.


V
v 4
A
an*
VO
The world 9 s largest aircraft —
1931 pattern
7 o’clock on a June evening, 1931. There
is a stir in the crowd waiting at Croydon
Airport, London. The Press photographers
get their cameras ready. The world’s largest
aircraft, the fabulous Junkers G3B, is coming
in to land.
The enormous machine touches down as
gently as a swallow landing in its nest. It
dwarfs other aircraft on the field: its single
wing covers an area of 3,120 sq. ft. and spans
148 ft.; the whole machine weighs 15 tons.
For the waiting crowd at Croydon in
1931, the Junkers G3B was the shape of
things to come. Its clean single wing, unen-
cumbered by a latticework of struts, was
indeed an important step towards the sleek,
supersonic aircraft of today.
BP aviation spirit fuelled the Junkers G3B not
only at Croydon, but in all its flights between the
capitals of Europe. Wherever it went, BP spirit
was ready, providing the perfect fuel for the
world’s largest aircraft.
Since then BP Aviation Service has come a
long way. Today, geared to keep pace with
future developments and demands, it is ready at
all times to provide aviation fuels speedily and
efficiently.
AVIATION
buc
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd
«/H
Consolidated Press Limited
\
(Incorporated in New South Wales on Bth January, 1936)
Registered Office: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100)
of £1,500,000
REGISTERED
1
0
MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Currency ... TEN or FIFTEEN YEARS
(At the option of applicants, specified at time of application)
ISSUE OPENS 23rd SEPTEMBER
Prospectus may be obtained from:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK LIMITED,
THE COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
Underwriting Brokers:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For public information. This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an
invitation to the public to subscribe for the Debenture Stock mentioned herein.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
Everything at the Radio
Show (Earl’s Court) is on a
high level. Upstairs, prominent
television personalities, spilling
over with benign charm,
graciously break through the
dense mass of viewers who have
waited hours for the thrill of
seeing them in the flesh. Else-
where, in the less glamorous
intimacy of exhibitors’ olfices,
social contacts are made and
renewed as a preliminary to deals
of quite fantastic magnitude.
But nothing changes hands. The
atmosphere of the market-place
is as far away from here as the
cat’s-whisker from the thermionic
valve.
Downstairs, on the main floor,
all is tidy-bright. The strained,
automatic appeal of the demon-
strator is unheard. Any “barker”
so presumptuous as to lower the
tone of this glittering show by
raising his voice would assuredly
be sent packing and his cheap
wares quickly hidden from sight.
The sideshows are electronic
marvels, and the stands are
manned by executives. You ask
a simple question about your
modest set, and the head of the
Research and Development
Department answers you with an
explanation so highly charged
with technicalities as to leave
you gaping with wonderment.
You pass along. You gaze.
You goggle. You soon realise
that this still-young industry has
reached maturity; and even in
maturity its full range and
potentialities are only partially
explored. You cease to raise an
eyebrow at the astounding
figures, accepting as a matter of
course that the industry turned
out nearly 1,200,000 radio sets
and 1,150,000 TV receivers last
year; that the export figure for
industrial electronics (naviga-
tional aids, communications
equipment and the like) is at
the rate of nearly £l4 million
sterling a year; and that the
annual equivalent for radio
equipment is nearly £3O million.
And if you remember yourself
considering 70gns.-90gns. a lot
of money to pay for a TV set,
you turn shamefacedly away and
feel very small.
Up-to-date Flashes
Sight. —Much progress has
again been made in improve-
ments of focus and “scan.”
Pictures are clearer and less dis-
torted at the edges. The most
popular size of screen is now
17in., followed by Min.; the
9in.-screen, popular at the outset,
is no longer being manufactured.
Emphasis everywhere is on com-
mercial TV. New sets will have
both ingenious methods of
tuning and facilities for easy
plug-in of the requisite com-
ponent. But the changeover is
not without misgivings; besides
£5 for the component, the viewer
will have to find from £5 to £2O
for an additional aerial.
Sound. —The sales trend is
upwards, probably because of
wom-out pre-war sets. Portable
sets that work from both mains
and batteries are very popular.
They are personal, not familial,
for bedroom, car and picnic;
perhaps even a means of escape
from communal TV. Disap-
pointing, to Britons at any rate,
is the backwardness of the
industry over very - high-
frequency, which is the remedy
for the overcongested medium-
wave band. Although the first
station is to open next May the
exhibitors have prototypes only.
In this development we are
streets behind Germany.
Playback. —How long-playing
records have taken on is shown
by the wide range of cheap
gramophones and the medium-
priced radiograms, attractively
designed as furniture. The
expensive paraphernalia of the
Hi-Fi enthusiast is little in
evidence. That microgroove
recording has a serious weakness
is clear from the ingenuity dis-
played in trying to overcome
pick-up troubles; the ideal
featherweight pick-up, clean and
sure in its tracking, has still to
be developed. Something quite
new to this country is the market-
ing, by E.M.1., of tape-recordings
for home - listening. One
symphony of Dvorak’s (or two
of Beethoven’s) occupies 1200 ft.
of plastic tape and costs four
guineas. This seems an expen-
sive way of listening to music;
particularly as a really first-class
reproducer will be needed, but
the makers claim constant quality
of reproduction from beginning
to end, no distortion and better
wear than a disk.
Never-never Land
Away from the sparkle and
glossiness of the electronic
marvels is a tent that -has
nothing to display; its name
passes unnoticed by the multi-
tudes and means nothing to them.
Do the executives who stand
outside, chatting quietly as if on
the touchline, seem to have that
little bit extra of satisfaction,
confidence and hope? They
certainly have good reason to,
for they represent a concern
which, with its fellows, is the
real power behind the industry.
They are industrial bankers or,
if you prefer it, hire-purchase
financiers on the rising tide of a
fantastic boom.
Mr. Butler’s well-intended
measures to restrict “excessive
expansion of consumer-credit”
have not merely failed. They
have been blown sky-high. The
Treasury ban on new capital-
issues was too rigid, for it pre-
cluded the granting of very
necessary loans to producers.
And it didn’t work, since no
fewer than 170 new companies
were formed with capitalisations
small enough to avoid asking for
consent. The Treasury then had
to capitulate by removing the
restriction of two and a half
years ago which required a
deposit, by the consumer, of one-
third of the cost of the article
and a repayment period limited
to 18 months.
So now it’s a free-for-all.
Nearly every main-street shop-
window bears “No Deposit’’
banners. There has been such a
run on stocks that a shortage is
likely and already Waiting-lists
are being compiled.
On the Stock Exchange,
“Gussie’s” (Great Universal
Stores) maintains the unique
position of the doubtful chance
that has made good. The five-
shilling shares of a few years ago
stand at 115 s. Time and time
again these shares have been
considered too speculative,
almost a runaway as a mad
bull. By their continuing to soar
they have confounded the ex-
perts. The Stores’ prosperity is
clearly based on their successful
“Pay-as-you-go” policy, for hire-
purchase loans last year
amounted to over £4O million.
From Vienna
The Edinburgh Festival has
left London bare of new shows
except for a first visit of the
Vienna Operetta. The Stoll
Theatre had no trouble in filling
its vast auditorium, mostly with
expatriate Austrians who relished
the German dialogue, but talked
English in the bars. Quite
obviously their night out was
entirely rewarding. Yet, even
after making allowance for the
cheap set, one’s own linguistic
inadequacy, a scratch orchestra
and a wildly absurd plot,
Emmerich Kalman’s “Princess
Czardas” proved disappointing.
The principals sang well and the
Hungarian idiom of the music is
catching. But the production had
such a musty, quaintly old-
fashioned look that it suggested
a rather tired music-hall act. An
indication, perhaps, of the high
standards of our own methods
of production.


\
QUEENSLAND \
* 1
—-S-*
NEW SOUTH WALES
I\a/
victoTia~\
-or
"From Cape York to Portland" —
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 Collins Street, Melbourne
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clito McPhers ol ), K.B,
C. 8.8. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenhatn; Norlnan J. Carson,-C.x •
C, N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: .John Larritt.
Manager: C. N. Williams. . „ T r MacDonald,
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Bivenna; S.,L. G. Macßona
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector; B. P. Learmonth.
2 O'Connell Street, Sydney
XT Cl TCT T'lT
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: „ rrltl9nl
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman); The Horn Sir
Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); The Hon Sir Henry Braddoa, £
The Hon. Sir Colin Sinclair, K.8.E.; A. B. Heath, C.M.G., The Ron. a
Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C. . n n
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager; A. B. Tilemann.
Pastoral Inspector; Prank Laird. * ' - —■
398402 Queen Street, Brisbane
Queensland Board: Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, K.C.8., C. • •>, ( xon
QueensUnd ( Boa,rd. aii ) J w BC 1) Cecil
M.E., M.T.B. (Aust.); B. Hart; R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0.,
Brenan.
Manager : C. D. Wrigley.
Pastoral Inspector; R. O. Spenceley. , r j, ar i eT ille.
And .t Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Cb».
(Incorporated in Victoria) Estatmsnea _
The WILD CAT COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
/"'HIEF factor behind the extraordin-
ary growth and lushness of net
earnings of this big car-manufacturing,
-assembly, -distributing and motor body-
building, etc,, organisation is the success
of its new all-Australian-made motor-
vehicle, the Holden, of which more will
be said presently. After setting aside
£983,855 (up £297,013) for depreciation
and amortisation, as well as unstated
amounts for taxation and other contin-
gencies, net earnings for the year to
December 31 last took a leap of
£3,278,691 (83 p.c.), reaching an Austra-
lian record of £7,236,239:
Q.M.-H. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends -- ■■■>
Pref.
Dec. Profit, 6 p.c. ( Ord. ■, Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Sale fixed assets, £2428 .. .. 1,930,382
1949.. 477,159 33,696 Nil 2,373,845
Net loss realisation assets, £33,776 .. 2,340,069
Net equity subsid. profit, £21,390 .. 2,361,459
1950. 2,603.364 33,696 50 p.c. = 875,000 4,056,127
Profit sale assets, £28.989 .. .. 4,085,116
Net equity subsid. profit, £10,012.. 4,095,128
1951.8,348,023 33,696 30 p.c. = 525,000 6,884,455
Profit sale assets, £53,707 .. .. 6,938,162
Net equity subsid. profit, £9380 .. 6,947,542
1952. 3,947,548 33,696 Nil 10,861,894
Profit sale assets, £37,574 .. .. 10,898,968
Investment income, £13,512 .. .. 10,912,480
Tax overprovision, £922,917 .. 11,835,397
1953. 7,236,239 33,696 100p.e.=1,750,000 17,287,940
Though the improvement wasn’t quite
so good as it looked, because £922,917
had been overprovided for taxation in
1952, the £7,236,239 was enough to pay
the pref. div. and show no less than
411.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against 223.6,
189.4, 146.8 and 25.3 p.c. back to 1950.
The fatness of the profit available for
distribution among owners of the ord.,
or equity, capital, however, is greatly
magnified by the nature of the capital
structure. At the close of last accounts,
the £2,311,600 of share capital had the
support and assistance of no less than
£17,287,940 of reserves. On the two
combined the year’s profit was 36.9 p.c.,
which is still a very high ratio by com-
parison with other undertakings. Among
other things, it suggests a marked degree
of technical, managerial and financial
efficiency. The co. also had the use of
£4,137,216 coming to affiliated and allied
cos. for materials, etc., much of it appar-
ently on quite long-term credit. And
the £2,311,600 of share capital includes
£561,600 of 6 p.c. prefs., held by the
Australian public, and which is obviously
earning a lot more than its keep. The ord.
capital (£1,750,000) is owned by the big
American parent co.. General Motors
Corp.
Although the ords, were handed a
juicy 100 p.c. div., it was only the third
distribution received in the last nine
years, making the average rate for the
whole period 20 p.c. Net profit for the
nine years aggregated £18,536,257, of
which pref. and ord. divs. took
£3,453,264, leaving £14,902,993, together
with other non-recurring gains interlined
in the table, available to finance the big
programme of expansion, from which
suppliers of materials to the co., its
employees (there are nearly 12,000 names
on the pay-roll), the Government and
others have all benefited substantially.
Production of the Holden car and
utility truck, which involved a capital
outlay of over £11,000,000 on plant and
equipment alone, has been the central
feature of the co.’s post-war activities.
First units of the new vehicles came off
the production-lines in 1948. Sales of
Holdens, and of G.M. vehicles which
the co. imports, have since moved in
this way:
, —Number Cars and
1949. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Holden 7,725 25,177 31,945 44,175
V auxhall/Bedford .. 15,785 14,915 10,135 8,870
U.S. and Canadian .. 6,433 5,413 5,265 5,554
Total .. ~ 29,943 45,605 47,345 58,599
While last year’s sales of imported
vehicles dropped by 976 units* due to
legislative, exchange and other difficul-
ties, those of the Holden increased by
12,230 units, or 38.2 p.c., and represented
about one-third of total new cars and
18 p.c. of total new commercial-vehicles'
registered in Australia during 1953, And
the order-book is stiff six months or more
ahead of production for Holdens, the
selling-price of which was reduced during
the year by £53.8 and £46.1 for sedans
and utilities respectively. Obviously the
co. could further strengthen its competi-
tive power, and still win good profits, by
making further substantial cuts in selling-
prices.
Sales of vehicles, which account for
nearly nine-tenths of total turnover, in-
creased by £9,230,046 (22.2 p.c.) last
term:
Vehicle. Non-vehicle. Total.
1950 .. £30,1X8,162 £5,000,590 £85,118,752
1951 .. 35,297,750 7.183,995 42,481,745
1952 .. 41,583,595 8,036,062 49,619,657
1953 .. 50,813,641 6,856,477 57,670.118
In the non-vehicle section takings slipped
by £1,179,585. This section includes the
National Automotive Service Co., which
handles auto-parts and -accessories; the
Industrial and Domestic Equipment Co.,
which makes diesel engines and power
and other equipment; and the Frigidaire
division, which manufactures domestic
and commercial refrigeration units.
Financing of further expansion of the
undertaking will cause no headaches in
the board-room:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £561,600 £561,600 £561,600
- Ord. .. 1,750,000 1.750,000 1,750,000
Reserves .. 6,884,455 10,861,894 17.287,940
Creditors, etc, 7,190,610 5,430,411 6,017,406
Tax reserve, etc. 5,133,959 6,368,885 6,783,887
Final div. .. 541,848 16,848 16,848
Total .. £22,062,472 £24,989,188 £82,417,681
Premises .. 1,658,321 3,055,259 3,709,788
Plant . . .. 2,692,841 4,818,696 6,626,383
Stocks .. 14,046,149 13.766,573 13,303,838
Debtors .. 1,641,981 2,150,473 1,484,641
Cash .. .. 2,023,180 1,198,137 7,293,031
Total .. £22,062,472 £24,989,138 £32,417,681
Principal movements in the figures last
term were net additions of £1,807,687 to
plant, £654,529 to premises and
£6,094,894 to the cash holding. Easier
trading conditions enabled stocks
and book-debts to be reduced by
£462,735 and £665,832 respectively. The
amount coming to sundry creditors (up
£586,995) includes the £4j137,216 (up
£18,209) due to affiliated cos. already
referred to. ;
Adelaide Steamship Co.
OVER the last couple of years the out-
look in the shipping (except intra-
state) and coal trades has brightened,
and the earnings of those engaged in the
two industries have strengthened, thanks
largely to steadier costs, prompter adjust-
ment of freight-rates following elimina-
tion of controls, reduction of the tax
burden in the 1953 Budget and steady
growth in the volume of cargo handled.
In the background, however, are the un-
certain character of industrial relations,
the high cost of replacing the old tonnage
and taxation of amounts set aside to meet
the extra cost of renewals.
Today it costs as much to build a vessel
of 370 tons as it did pre-war to construct
one of 5200 tons. And since no real profit
is earned until adequate provision is made
for replacement of the appropriate pro-
portion of the assets concerned, the board
of this Adelaide co. has adopted a policy
of “allocating sums to reserves to the
limit of the co.’s capacity,” which in the
circumstances amounts to no more than
commercial prudence.
The co.’s fleet of five passenger- and 16
cargo-vessels, aggregating 25,829 tons and
34,350 tons respectively, is the largest on
the coast. Together with tugs, lighters,
etc., it figures in the books at £2,460,431,
or 44.5 p.c. of total assets. Investments
in subsidiary (£136,500) and other cos.
(£699,864) and Government securities
(£822,650) total £1,659,014, or 30 p.c. of
total assets; and until a few years ago
returns therefrom accounted for the bulk
of the co.’s declared profits. The share-
holdings include scrip in J. and A. Brown
and Abermain-Seaham Collieries, A.N.A.,
A.W.A., Newstead Wharves and Steve-
doring Co., Waratah Tug and Salvage
Co. and Port Adelaide Steam Laundry.
Earnings of the two sections —shipping
and investments —are not separated in the
published accounts, in which the figures
are so well compounded that it is diffi-
cult to say just what profit has been
earned, except that it appears to be
better than claimed by the board. The
figure claimed last term was £139,515 (up
£11,628), which was only £7 more than
the fractionally higher div. of 6 p.c,
called for. It was written after allowing
unstated amounts for depreciation and
taxation, and after dropping £50,000 and
£75,000 (same as previous year) into the
insurance and replacements, etc., reserves.
Including these additions, net earnings,
etc., compare as follows: —
To Re- Re-
June. Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1947.. 169,456 6 p.c. = 139,507 29,949 828,625
1948.. 154,451 6 ~ „ 139,507 14,944 843,569
1949.. 218,331 5 „ „ 116,257 102,074 945,643
1950.. 156,276 5 „ „ 116,257 40,019 985,662
1951.. 156,268 5 ~ ~ 116,257 40,011 1,026,673
1952.. 241,273 5 „ „ 116,257 125,016 1,150,689
Decrease repairs provision, £21,130 1,129,559
1953.. 252,887 127,883 125,004 1,254,563
Added repairs provision, £139,773 .. 1,894,336
1954.. 264,515 6 p.C.= 139,508 125,007 1,519,343
* Includes additions to insurance and replacement
reserves.
The £264,515 (up £11,628) of profit was
11.3 p.c. on capital as against 10.8, 10.3,
6.7 and 6.7 p.c. back to 1950. The div.
was gently jacked up from 5\ p.c. to
6 p.c., making average distribution over
the last decade 5.6 p.c. Part of the addi-
tion to the replacements, etc., reserve,
however, came from profit on sale of
two old vessels, a hulk and a hopper-
barge, which also appears to have some
connection with the unexplained addition
of £139,773 to the provision for docking
and repairs (£234,642), not included with
profits in the table.
During the year three new motor-
vessels, aggregating 1683 tons, were
bought, and £725,432 net was added to
the book-value of steamers, etc., while
book-debts (£909,749, up £335,038) and
shares in other cos, (£699,864, down
£5000) increased by £330,038:
1962. 1953. 1954.
Paid capital ~ £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Reserves .. ~ 1,150.689 1,254,563 1,519,343
Overdraft .. .. _
Sundry creditors* 816,222 772,344 1,111,975
Provident fund .. 205,755 238,509 268,327
Pinal div. .. 69,754 81,380 81,380
Total .. .. £4,567,655 £4,671,931 £5,527,614
Freeholds, etc. .. 284,631 251,068 256,013
Steamers, etc. .. 1,700,568 1,734,999 2,460,431
Shares subsidiaries 136,500 186,500 136,500
Stocks and stores 281,131 256,930 241,651
Book debts and in- __ _
vestments . . 1,306,861 1,279,575 1,609,613
Bonds, cash, etc. 907,864 1,012,864 828,406
Total .. .. £4,567,655£4,671.931 £5,527,614
* Includes provision for taxation.
To help meet the outlay the co, went to
its bankers for £221,454, added £339,631
to the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., and drew upon bonds and cash, etc.,
for £189,458. With three new motor-
vessels, aggregating 4150 tons, now under
construction, further growth of the over-
draft and reduction of cash, etc., can be
expected.
The immediate outlook points to
another good showing at next balance.
Still, it is doubtful whether any further
increase in the div. need be looked for
at the moment. The market therefore
prices the f.-p. £1 shares at 235. (same
as a year ago) to return 5.2 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 335. Id,
W. R. Carpenter & Co.
THIS big and well-entrenched island-
trading organisation consists of the
parent holding co. and a score, or there-
abouts, of subsidiaries, which are engaged
in shipping, insurance and a wide range
of merchandising and other activities in
areas extending from New Guinea out
over the South Seas to Fiji, and to
Vancouver and London as well. For the
most part the curtain is kept drawn over
the figures of the offshoots, whose profits
are taken into the parent’s books only to
the extent of dividends received. The
outsider therefore knows little of the real
position. The history of the undertaking,
however, suggests that there has always
been more wheat in the ear than the eye
can see. Hence the scrip has proved a
satisfactory holding proposition, and there
is nothing to suggest that it isn’t likely to
remain so, though benefits might be more
widely spaced than in the past.
Shareholders, who put up £473,330 of
capital, plus £83,375 of share-premiums,
during the six years to mid-1939, had half
their capital returned in 1948, and that
without impairing the earning-capacity of
the organisation. Then, in June, 1951, the
total on the share-register was doubled
by a one-for-one issue of bonus-scrip,
making paid capital £850,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares. The gift came for a reserve of
£463,445 created by writing-up the book-
value of shares in subsidiaries by a like
amount.
Though war interrupted a llow of 10 p.c.
divs., the co.’s Fiji interests kept the pot
boiling, and a steady 5 p.c. was paid for
the five years to 1946, followed by 7|, 9,
10, two lots of 20 p.c. and then 15 p.c.
for the three years to June 30 last.
Trade activity in the islands is closely
linked with commodity markets in Britain
and the U.S., especially for copra, sugar,
pearl- and trochus-shell and a number of
minor commodities. Last term conditions
were mixed, more sugar but less copra
being produced. These two commodities
are taken wholly or in part by the British
Government under long-term contracts,
and, together with other island produce,
continued to fetch high prices. The
Carpenter organisation “functioned very
satisfactorily,” and reports from the
various units “indicate that progress made
during the year Was good and that earn-
ings were favorable.” The parent co.
showed a moderate gain of £4704 in its
own profit:
To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
To tax reserve, £25,000 .. •• 459,1b8
1948.. 75,655 9 p.c. = 69,750 5,905 465,063
1949.. 80,194 10 „ „ 77,50 0 2,694 467,757
1960. . 82,591 20 „ „ 80,000 2,591 470,348
Revaluation of assets, £463,445 .. 933,793
Reserves capitalised, £425,000 . - 508,793
1951.. 102,887 20 p.c. = 81,250 21,637 530,430
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. 520,430
Prom tax reserves, £42,194 .. •• 562,624
1962.. 139,013 15 p.c. = 127,500 11,513 574,137
1953.. 141,345 15 „ „ 127,500 13,845 587,982
1954.. 146,049 15 „ ~ 127,500 18,549 606,531
The £146,049 of profit claimed was
17.1 p.c. on capital as against 16.6, 16.3
and 12.1 p.c. back to 1951. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s net result was equal to
10 p.c., which suggests, among other


DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor.
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
Insurance Supervision
RAWLINGS & GABDNEB Pty. Ltd.
Insurance Brokers & Supervisors
(Established 1919)
Offer a Free Advisory Service, embracing
a comprehensive survey of your Policies,
to provide for widest coverage at lowest
rates, with constant supervision. No
change need bo made in your present
Insurers.
Consult them without obligation.
16 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Phones: BU 3445. BU 3446, BU 1409.
GEOLOGISTS
United Uranium No Liability offer the
following positions for work in
Northern Australia:
CHIEF GEOLOGIST : For
thoroughly qualified and ex-
perienced man, £3,000 p.a. Con-
tract available.
SENIOB GEOLOGISTS: Salary
range £2,000-£2,500 p.a. Contract
available.
FIELD GEOLOGISTS: Ranging
from £1,350 for graduates to £2,000
p.a. for three years’ experience.
All field expenses paid.
Applications, with details, to Legal
Manager, 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
tai
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th Jane, 1954.
LIABILITIES. £
Central Banking Business—
Capital „ 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. „ 4,810,413
Rural Credits Department—
Capital „ 2,429,000
Reserve Fund .. .. „ 820,889
Mortgage Bank Department —
Capital 4,857,000
Reserve Fund 378,339
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital 4,857,000
Reserve Fund 1,716,830
23,869,471
Special Reserve—Premium on gold
„ *old 4,754,954
Notes on issue 343,826,680
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks 351,920,000
Other deposits of trading banks .. 54,404,775
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (including pro-
vision for contingencies) ~ 302,483,843
Total .. .. 1,081,209,723
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held abroad (in-
cluding money at short call) .. 605,418,774
Australian notes and coin .. .. 2,357,460
Cheques and bills of other banks .. 13,561,726
Commonwealth Government Securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 418,643,264
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities ..
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off)
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) :
Central Banking Business
Rural Credits Department
Mortgage Bank Department ..
Industrial Finance Department
Other assets ..
Total .. .. 1,081,209,723
41,262,962
7,083,091
668,621
6,425,246
54,673,871
4,683,014
22,764,853
4,891,551
Note. —lnter-departmental accounts totalling £50,189,626 have been ofiset.
Dr- PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1954. Cr.
Central Banking, Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund ..
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Capital Account
To Rural Credits Department
Capital Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
To Commonwealth Treasury ..
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department
Reserve Fund .. ..
To Rural Credits Development
Fund ..
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Departments—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund
Total
£
-1,959,165
1,459,166
142.500
71.500
143.000
143.000
142.500
71.500
143.000
143.000
5,706,697
85.450
85.450
59,166
345,511
10,700,605
By Profits (after provision for
contingencies)—
Central Banking Business.. „ 8,9X8,331
Note Issue Department .. „ 6,206,697
Rural Credits Department „ 170,900
Mortgage Bank Department „ 59,166
Industrial Finance Department ~ 846,511
Total „ .. 10,700,605
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(fed.) J. B. WRIGHT, Acting Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) Chief Accountant. SvbNEY, 23rd August, 1954.
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as • at 30th June, 1954.
LIABILITIES £
Capital .. .. .. 4,857,000
Reserve Fund 1,859,808
Deposits, bills payable and other
liabilities (including provision for
contingencies) 210,285,755
Balances due to other banks „ 241,065
Totai, .. .. 217,243,628
ASSETS. £
Coin, bullion, cotes and cash at
bankers 18,816,662
Money at short call—
(a) London 1,850,000
(b) Elsewhere .. .. ..
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank .. .. .. .. 38,650,000
Cheques and bills of other banks and
balances with and due from
other banks .. .. .. 1,862,788
Treasury bills—
(a) Australian Governments .. 10,000,000
(b) Other governments .. ..
Public securities (excluding treasury
bills)—
(a) Australian Governments .. 86,078,187
(b) Other governments .. ..
(c) Local and semi-governmental
authorities .. .. ..
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit 26,974,334
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off) .. .. .. .. 2,949,888
Loans, advances and bills discounted
(after deducting provision for
debts considered bad or doubtful) 78,811,557
Other assets .. .. .. .. 2,250,262
Total .. 217,243,628
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED SOth JUNE, 1954.
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 275,229
To Commonwealth Trading Bank
Reserve Fund 275,229
Total .. 550,458
£
By Profits (after provision for con-
tingencies) 660,453
Total .. .. 550,468
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) A. N. ARMSTRONG, General Manager. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
ej JSgd.)_W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 23rd August, 1954.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1954.
LIABILITIES. £
Reserve Fund .. ~ ~ 8,275,743
Depositors’ balances and accrued
interest .. .. .. .. 663,910,338
Other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) „ 19,035,459
Total .. 681,221,540
ASSETS. £
Australian notes and coin .. .. 709,002
Cash balances and money at short call 67,856,166
Commonwealth Government Securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 451,330,263
Securities of other governments and
of local and semi-governmental
authorities ~ .. .. .. 67,667,923
Bank premises (at cost less amounts
written off) .. .. .. ~ 3,492,130
Loans and advances .. .. 80,670,755
Other assets .. .. .. .. 9,495,271
Total .. .. 681,221,540
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1954. Cr.
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 600,368
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. 600,368
Total .. .. 1,200,736
By Profits (after provision for pay-
ments amounting to £830,635 due
to State Authorities under Savings
Bank Amalgamation Agreements
and after provision for contingen-
cies) 1,200,730
Total .. .. 1,200,730
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) H. G. T. SEARLE, Chief Superintendent. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant, Sydney, 23rd August, 1964,
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for tiu
Commonwealth (Mr. J. Brophy)
things, that holdings m sub-
sidiaries are well worth their
book-value.
Here is the financial set-up so
far as the parent’s published
accounts show it:
1953. 1954.
Paid capital .. £850.000 £850,000
Reserves .. . . 587,982 606,531
Sundry creditors. . 267,837 288,517
Tax provision .. 23,874 19,808
War damage cr. .. 85,480 86,480
Final div. .. 63,750 63,750
Total .. £1,878,923 £1,914,086
Plant, etc. .. 4,188 7,859
Investments .. 1,260,945 1,262,351
Stocks .. .. 33,500 25,770
Debtors, etc. .. 158,387 209,542
Cash, etc 421,903 408,564
Total .. £1,878,923 £1,914,086
The feature which catches the
eye is that the board has plenty
of ready cash, etc., with which
to take immediate advantage of
any trading opportunities that
might arise. Investments con-
sist of shares in subsidiaries
(£986,648) and shares in other
cos. (£275,703). Sundry credi-
tors include £240,937 (up
£40,999) due to subsidiaries.
The market expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the
undertaking by pricing the f.-p.
ss. shares at 16s. 6d., giving an
immediate return of only 4.5
р. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Visibly the cover is Bs. 7d. in
net tangibles.
Central Victoria Dredging
The venture has proved a dis-
appointment to shareholders,
who have never received a div.,
nor is there anything in sight at
the moment to suggest that they
are likely to. Chief troubles
have been the crippling effects
of inflation, which pushed
operating costs to many times
their original estimate of 4.6 d.
per c.y., difficult nature of some
of the ground and the fact that
recoveries have not lived up to
bore values over part of the area
treated.
The co., which has a paid capi-
tal of £390,000 in 10s. shares,
was formed in Melbourne in
1947 to work three auriferous
areas in Victoria—Jim Crow,
near Newstead, 10,500,000 c.y.,
bored to average 2.12 gr. recover-
able gold; Guildford, New-
stead, containing 6,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 1.91 gr. ; Amphi-
theatre, near Avoca, 20,000,000
с. of 2.04 gr. dirt. The co.’s
two big dredges, each with a
capacity of over 2,000,000 c.y.
p.a., set-in during December,
1949, on the Jim Crow ground,
which has yielded moderate pro-
fits, and in June, 1951, on the
Amphitheatre leases, which have
been unprofitable to date.
Combined net earnings for the
year to March 31 last showed a
profit of £4483, compared with
£44,200, £48,121 and £33,438
back to 1951. Treatment of less
and lower-grade dirt, with a con-
sequent smaller recovery of
gold, which fetched a much-
reduced premium in the open
market, were the difficulties last
term.
The Jim Crow dredge, having
treated all available pay-ground,
has been docked. It would not
now be economical to move it to
the Guildford area, as originally
intended, the chairman says.
Hopes are that an opportunity
to use it profitably elsewhere
might arise, or that a buyer can
be found.
The Amphitheatre machine is
to be turned back into higher-
grade ground, from which three
years or more of profitable work
is anticipated. Continuance of
operations beyond this point de-
pends upon whether economic
conditions then permit a lot of
now-marginal ground to be
handled at a profit.
Chairman G. Lindsay Clark
says the co. cannot wind up until
March, 1956, because of its con-
tract with the Government to
maintain the banks of the Lod-
don River for 10 years after its
diversion.
At March 31 last the dredges
figured in the books at £359,104,
buildings £18,306, plant, etc.,
£25,364, stores £68,141, cash,
etc., £16,644. There was £53,500
coming to Western Mining Corp.
and £11,013 to sundry creditors.
The f.-p. 10s. shares, which
fetched as much as 18s, 6d. in
1953, recently sold at 4s.
The Shell interests in Aus-
tralia, North Broken Hill,
Broken Hill South and Western
Mining C®rp. have decided to
jointly enter the hunt for
petroleum in Westralia. At pre-
sent no title for exploration of
any area is held. If a suitable
area becomes available on satis-
factory terms, funds for initial
geological examination are to be
provided 75 p.c. by Shell, p.c.
each by the two Broken Hill
cos. and 10 p.c. by W.M.C. If
it should then be decided to test-
drill the area a separate co. is
to be formed for the purpose.
The combination means that
international petroleum “know-
how” will be allied to consider-
able mining knowledge locally,
that adequate finance will be
available for preliminary inves-
tigation, and that if success
attends the venture local share-
holders will participate in it.
* * * *
“Orang Puteh”: Recent
registration in Kuala Lumpur
(Malaya) of a new tin-
mining co., Aokam Tin, Ltd.,
brings to the mining world some-
thing new in the recovery of
alluvial-tin ores. The co.’s leases
cover 12 square miles of tin-
bearing deposits seaward and
adjacent to those of the famous
Tongkah Harbor Co. at Puket
(Siam) —Tongkah Harbor was
floated in Hobart (Tas.) in 1906,
and has since paid over
£1,000,000 in dividends, Aokam
plans to work its area with grab-
dredges, because the ocean
ground-swell would make use of
bucket machines, with which
other dredging cos. are equipped,
difficult. The area is rich as
dredging properties go ; to date
approximately 50,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 21b. to., -have been
proved by prospecting. The
Siamese Government is sub-
scribing 45 p.c. of the co.’s
issued capital of $6,000,000. The
remainder, or all but a small
fraction of it, is held by two
powerful London tin-dredging
groups, namely Malayan Tin
Dredging, Ltd., and Tronoh
Mines, Ltd.
* * * ♦
North Australian Uranium
Corp. reports that work com-
pleted to date “indicates that
optimism originally displayed
with regard to the Sleisbeck area
(N.T.) is well founded” ; that in-
vestigation is proceeding by
costeaning, bulldozing and dia-
mond- and percussion-drilling;
and that new and promising
areas to the east of Sleisbeck
have been located. The co.’s ss.
shares paid to 2s. 6d, each, which
fetched as much as 50s. a month
or so ago, recently sold at
38s. 6d.


Women’s Letters
MCLECDBNE
fn celebration of Battle of Britain Week
a cocktail-party was given by the presi-
dent and members of the R.A.A.F. head-
quarters Officers’ Mess, St. Kilda-road.
Bowls of spring flowers (the work of the
president’s wife, Mrs. E. Hey) were
arranged in the large reception-rooms.
Marshal of the R.A.F. Sir John Slessor
was guest-of-honor. The 250 guests were
received by Air-Marshal J. P. J. Mc-
Cauley and Mrs. McCauley, she wearing
a full-skirted frock of carbon-blue faille,
a blue fox stole and small turquoise cap.
Distinguished guests included the First
Naval Member, Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins, Lieut.-Gen. Sir Sydney Rowell
and Lady Rowell, Air-Marshal Sir George
Jones, Air-Marshal Sir Richard Wil-
liams and Lady Williams, Air-Vice-
Marshal V. E. Hancock and Mrs. Han-
cock, Sir Victor and Lady Hurley and
Capt. and Mrs. G. R. Davis-Goff.
☆ ☆ ☆
Proceeds from the Battle of Britain
Ball held at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda,
will go to the R.A.A.F. Women’s Associa-
tion Scholarship Fund. The ball was
attended by the Governor artel Lady
Brooks, and special guests were Marshal
of the R.A.F. Sir John Slessor and
Squadron-Leader John Cock of Adelaide
and his wife. In the foyer was a replica
of the Battle of Britain window in West-
minster Abbey, the R.A.A.F. Standard,
and the Australian flag, while from the
ceiling of the ballroom was suspended
a Spitfire. Beside the orchestra dais was
a cut-out figure of a Battle of Britain
pilot and a Sabre Jet pilot. Bowls of
blossom and mixed flowers were set in
the official enclosure.
Lady Brooks wore a gown of powder-
blue silk-taffeta, the bodice of which
featured a deep fichu neckline ; a large
bow of the material was at the back of the
full sweeping skirt. President of the ball-
committee, Mrs. E, C. Wackett, wore a
gown of white chiffon embroidered with
silver beads. Mrs. J. P. J. McCauley, wife
of the Chief of Air Staff, allied a full
skirt of grey nylon-tulle with a bodice
of darker grey nylon-lace flowers centred
with pearls. With Air-Marshal Sir
Richard ' Williams was his wife, whose
choice was a bouffant gown of ice-blue
tulle. Lady Rowell was with Lieut-
General Sir Sydney Rowell, and also in
the official party were Air-Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. J. E. Hewitt and Air-Vice-
Marshal V, Hancock and Mrs. Hancock.
Mrs, John Cock’s gown of powder-
blue satin brocade had a fern-pattern in
a deeper-blue toning. -With Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones was Lady Jones, whose
choice was a graceful gown of grey
brocade patterned in soft-pink. Mrs. R.
Austin, secretary of the ball-committee,
wore white chiffon patterned in a gold
spot. Marion McPherson, who accom-
panied Lady Brooks, wore a gown of
palest-pink satin-brocade which had a
large bow at the hip and a very full
skirt.
* ☆ ☆
The newly formed Toronto Club, which
works for St. Vincent’s Hospital’s new
casualty-ward, put on as its first func-
tion a hat-parade at Giro’s. All the
hats shown were by Madame Brezny.
President of the Toronto Club is Mrs.
John Teague, whose mother, Mrs. L. R
Buxton, is also a worker for the hospital.
Members of the committee present were
Mrs. John Ryan, Mrs. Bing Moly-
neux, Mrs. Peter Kiernan and Barbara
Coleman. Those who watched the
parade included Mesdames R. Chaney,
Max Mitchell, Tom Baker, Brooke
Vollan, Francis Galbaily, Jack Steele and
George Mendes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Large white satin banners printed in
gold with Scotland’s Royal Standard
decorated the Myer Mural hall for the
Edinburgh Club’s dinner-dance in aid
of Prince Henry’s Hospital. President of
the club, the Hon. Simon Warrender, and
Mrs. Warrender received the guests.
Mrs. Warrender’s short frock was of
black faille. In the official party were the
Lord Mayor (Or. F. P. Selleck) and the
the Lady Mayoress (her frock of black
tulle featuring a sunray-pleated skirt),
Mrs. Harold Holt (her choice a short
bouffant frock of organza printed in an
ocelot pattern), and Dr. and Mrs, Alan
Wynn (her choice rust-shot taffeta).
Among the 250 present were Lady
Clarke, in a gown of coral-pink-and-white-
patterued organza; Mrs. Sam Wood,
wearing a slim gown of black velvet;
Mrs. Gladys Myer, whose sheath-frock
was of white French silk-jersey; Mrs.
Jim Peters, the bodice of whose navy
organza frock had a deep shawl-collar
edged with white organza; Mrs. Hamley
Wilson, who wore a full-skirted frock of
eau-de-Nil taffeta; and Mrs. Coleman
Burke, her royal-blue French-ninon gown
patterned with gold fleur-de-lis.
Formerly of Jerilderie (N.S.W.) and
now living at Hastings, Mrs. Jack Steele
is, with her husband, a great supporter of
many charities. She spends one day every
week at the Frankston Orthopedic Hos-
pital for Children and is also interested in
the Sutherland Homes for Children
Auxiliary. 'Mrs. Steele is often seen at
races, and is noted for her smart dressing.
John Warlow photo.
The Mother Rectress and Sisters of
Charity of St. Vincent’s Hospital gave
an afternoon-tea party to thank the
former Lady Mayoress, Mrs. R. H. Solly,
for her work for the hospital during her
term of office. Mrs. L. R. Buxton, who
received and introduced the guests, wore
an anthracite-grey suit which had a wide
cape-collar and a ruby-red velvet cap.
Mrs. Solly’s grey suit was worn with a
mist-blue velvet pillbox. Mrs. Frank Sel-
leck, the present Lady Mayoress, wore a
suit of grey silk-shantung; sequins
trimmed her matching pillbox beret.
Guests included Mrs, Ray Buxton, Mrs.
Harry Furnell, Mrs, T. J. Ryan, Mrs.
John Teague, Mrs. T. H. Smith, Mrs.
R. M- Biggins and Mrs. J. A. Gorman.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor, accompanied by Lady
Brooks (who wore a navy wool frock
with a wine-red cloche), opened the exhi-
bition of working scale-model trains of
varied vintages in the Lower Town Hall
which marks the centenary of the Vic-
torian Railways. The wife of the chair-
man of the Railway Commissioners, Mrs.
R. G. Wishart, topped her grey suit and
fur wrap with a winter-white felt hat.
Also in the official party were the State
Minister for Transport, Mr. P. L. Cole-
man, M.L.C.; Mr. and Mrs. O. G.
Meyer and Mr. and Mrs. E, H. Brown-
bill. Federal Transport Minister Senator
McLeay and Mrs. McLeay, Lady Clapp
(whose late husband. Sir Harold Clapp,
did so much to modernise the system),
Lady Dixon, Mrs. D. Guy Smith, Mr.
and Mrs. A. T. Smithers and the Com-
missioner for West Australian Railways,
Mr. A. G. Hall, were also present.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fairy-lights decorated the garden at
Cam Brea, the home of Lady Disney,
when she gave a dance to celebrate the
coming-of-age of her niece Denise
Rawlings. In the ballroom a tiny foun-
tain played and supper was set in a
marquee out in the garden. Denise wore
a sheath-gown of white-and-gold brocade
with the pattern outlined in sparkling
diamente. Lady Disney chose a full-
skirted ballerina of Chartreuse silk pat-
terned in white coin-spots. Assisting
Lady Disney receive the guests were the
guest-of-honor’s mother, Mrs. D. Rawling,
whose choice was black taffeta striped
in petunia and silver, and Mrs, Alex Hay,
whose frock was of jade-green silk-
shantung.
Among the young guests were Judith,
Denise’s sister, who wore a pretty frock
of primrose broderie Anglaise; Elaine
Grayden, wearing black-and-gold taffeta ;
Marie Chamberlain, whose pretty frock
was of pink-and-white-patterned organza ;
Coralie Richards, in a white organdie
frock patterned in green sequins; and
Esme Carven, whose white guipure frock
was trimmed with lemon-toned organdie.
SYDNEY
Quite refreshing in its beauty, was the
orchid show held in the Town Hall by
the Orchid Society of N.S.W. during the
week and opened on Wednesday by the
Governor, Sir John Northcott. The prize
for the best district exhibit went to Wes-
tern Suburbs, which showed a fine variety
of orchids in a New Guinea bushland
setting with a cascading stream and a
hilly background. North Shore was
second and Eastwood third. The mag-
nificent bouquet containing 150 orchids
which was presented to the Governor for
Lady Northcott by Mrs. John Bissett,
wife of the president of the society, had
been made by Mrs. Barry Allshorn from
flowers grown by her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. G. Tant, of Cronulla.
Amid the wealth of beautiful blooms
one couldn’t help noticing the orchids
grown by Mr. Jimmy Burstal (son of
pioneer grower Dr. A. C. Burstal), who
carried off prizes for the grand champion,
the best two, the best six and the best
red (the interesting Carisbrook Thelma
which bloomed for the second time this
year after seven years) and second prize
for a specimen-pot of swallow-daffodils.
Notable, too, was the prizewinning
shoulder-posy shown by Mrs. Fred Mc-
Kinney and consisting of three exquisitely
formed cymbidium orchids in a delidate-
cream color.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Hit and Run,” the gay new revue at
the Phillip-street Theatre, was ushered in
with a gala opening that really was gala,
for everyone, audience and company,
went on to Prince’s after the show for a
champagne supper, when hits from all
this theatre’s revues spun the night along
with great gaiety. Present in the theatre
were Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir
Lewis Casson, with their daughter-in-
law, Mrs. John Casson, and the radio-
world was so well represented one won-
dered who was entertaining the folks
at home that night.
Diana Barder, daughter of the late
Canon Barder and Mrs. Barder of Cen-
tennial Park , returned from a trip to
England a few weeks ago and has since
announced her engagement to Alan
Yuille of Turramurra. Diana is wearing
a ruby-and-diamond engagement-ring
and her marriage will take place in Octo-
ber. Photo by Hugh Spencer.
Eight nursing sisters (including two
nuns) were invested as Fellows of the
N.S.W. College of Nursing at an impres-
sive ceremony in the Great Hall of the
University last. Thursday. The colorful
gowns of the Chancellor of the Uni-
versity, Sir Charles Bickerton-Blackburn,
the Chief Justice, the Hon. K. W. Street,
the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine,
Dr. E. Ford, and the president of the
college. Miss Nora McDonald, found
reflection in the full-length red cloaks
worn by the Fellows of the college who
were present. The Oration, “Nursing
Care and Nursing Education,” was given
by Miss G. N. Burbridge, who came from
Melbourne for the occasion.
The Annual Gunner Ball, that old-
established social event which is looked
forward to each year by all gunner-
officers past or present who can possibly
attend it, was held at Victoria Barracks
on Friday night. The Drill Hall was
transformed by beautiful flower-arrange-
ments which included narcissi, hyacinths
and camellias. The Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, and Lady Slim were
present, she looking particularly lovely
in a gown of cinnamon lace. Guests
greeted by Colonel Jock Pagan and Mrs.
Pagan included Lieutenant-General E. W.
Woodward and Mrs. Woodward, Sir
Frank Berryman, General Ivan
Dougherty and Mrs. Dougherty, Briga-.
dier J. E. Chapman and Mrs. Chapman,
Brigadier P. W. A. Kelso and Mrs. Kelso,
Brigadier F. fi. McAlister and Mrs,
McAlister.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was sad to hear early in the week of
the death of Miles Franklin, the dis-
tinguished author and delightful per-
sonality who died on Sunday from a
sudden heart-attack. Miss Franklin was
69 years of age, but to those who knew
her unique humor and warmth of
character she was youthful and vital
always,
☆ ☆ ☆
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills,
pinned a purple orchid to her black gros-
grain coat worn with a pale-blue hat
when she entertained at afternoon-tea in
honor of Mrs. R. J. Heffron and Mrs.
J. D. Kenny, who have just returned after
accompanying their husbands abroad.
The Premier’s wife, Mrs. J. J. Cahill, was
present at the party, and also the wives
of many State Cabinet Ministers. Mrs.
Heffron said that one of her most interest-
ing experiences during her travels was
visiting the school for the deaf estab-
listed in Los Angeles by film-actor
Spencer Tracy, and of having lunch with
Mrs. Tracy. Both guests-of-honor wore
something they had purchased in Switzer-
land, Mrs. Heffron a pair of tiny baller-
ina earrings in marcasite and Mrs. Kenny
a lovely white Swiss-guipure lace blouse
with a navy suit.
☆ ☆ ☆
So many young dancers from the
Borovansky Ballet attended the opening
of the Spring Exhibition at the Grosvenor
Galleries that the assembly seemed as
decorative as the paintings themselves.
As Kathleen Gorham was ill and could
not attend, Annette Dunlop, whose por-
trait by William Dargie is hung in the
Exhibition, spoke the opening words.
Ballerina Eve King was present with
Clemence Bettany, Judith Ker (who is the
daughter of Professor and Mrs. A. K.
Stout), Cecily Paul from Brighton (Vic.),
Merrill Bean, daughter of Dr. A. R. Bean
of Fremantle (W.A.), and Joan Osborne,
from Mackay (Q.), who are all mem-
bers of the Borovansky Ballet Company.
☆ ☆ ☆
Evidence of the popularity of the
Royal Art Society were the numbers who
attended the preview cocktail-party
(about 250), and the official opening the
following evening by Charles Moses
(nearly 500), but most of all the numer-
ous little red stickers which appeared so
soon on so many paintings. The president
of the society, Erik Langker, said
that in the first two days paintings to
the value of £l5OO had been sold, which
seems to indicate that all artists do not
have to be, as Mr. Moses quoted in his
witty opening speech, “so modem that
no one understands them or so primitive
that the smallest child is ahead of them.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Differences in languages proved no
difficulty to Junior Red Cross member
Ruth Spurting, who returned during the
week after representing Australia at a
Study Circle in Turkey and visiting
India, Yugoslavia, Switzerland, France,
London, Lebanon and Italy. Although
she was the only delegate who spoke
English as a native tongue, she was able
to hold quite spirited discussions on such
matters as artificial respiration with
French Junior Red Cross members
through an interpreter. “And when we
couldn’t converse we found that we could
sing,”' said Miss Spurting, who described
how she sang songs with young Yugo-
slavians in their native language and in
turn taught them “Waltzing Matilda
and how to throw a boomerang. Miss
Spurting, who is a trainee-teacher from
Adelaide (and whose trip was made pos-
sible by a Unesco grant), said that the
strongest impression left on her by her
travels was the great spirit of friendli-
ness shown to her by Junior Red Cioss
members in whatever country she
travelled.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for,
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Missing Friend _____
FRITH, James Clement (formerly of
Northbridge), or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
VINDIN & LITTLEJOHN. Solicitors, 25
O’Connell Street, Sydney. BL 1416.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY MIRIAM CLARKE late
of 29 Marion Street Aubium. —TAKE
NOTICE that CHARLES WILLIAM
CLARKE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2597 of 1954 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 7th January 1955 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
HAROLD RICH, Solicitor, of 188
George Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS.
Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RAYMOND WALLACE COLE late of
of Lot 10 Proctor Parade Chester Hill. —
TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE COLE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4590 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards 1 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 7th January 1955 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HAROLD RICH, Solicitor,
of 188 George Street, Sydney.—o. A. IJ.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
IN~THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOY LORNA FOWLER late of Bal-
main.—TAKE NOTICE that HERBERT
JOHN FOWLER has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 3114 of 1954 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
the exercise of the Court’s discretion in
his favour under S. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the 11th January 1955
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from N. V. MENLOVE, Soli-
citor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
O. A. H. HARMS. Acting Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PERRETT late of 3 Karuah
Street East Bankstown near Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that AILEEN PERRETT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2612 of
1954 against you bn the ground of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend the suit you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 30th
day of December 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition' free of charge from J. R.
THOMAS, Solicitor, 39 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes JußisniCTiON.
TO REGINALD RONALD HENWOOD late
of 60 Dumaresq Street Hamilton.—TAKE
NOTICE that DULCIE LOUISA JOYCE
HENWOOD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 384 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 13th January
1955 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from J. BRUCE FER-
GUSON, Solicitor, of 84 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEONARD WILLIAM SHAW of C/o
Prince of Wale's Hotel Blackall Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA MAY
SHAW has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3172 of 1954 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 13th January 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from BARKER, JONES & LIV-
INGSTON, Solicitors, of 39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting Re-
gistrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
1 2 months £1/16/—
6 months 18/6
9/6
3 months
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or to any
newsagent in Australia.
British Empire .... £2
(i Please add exchange
Foreign .... £2/10/-
to count
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
More Edinburgh Festival
About 10 p.m., just when the
children of Macduff are being
put to the sword in Edinburgh’s
grim Assembly Hall and when,
elsewhere in the festival city,
Harro Siegel’s marionettes are
giving their macabre, vivid and
altogether too - Germanic
“Faust” with never a moment of
genuine fun to relieve the
diabolic gloom, six ballerinas in
a flutter of primrose-yellow and
six male dancers in saffron cos-
tumes like Grecian kilts are
dancing at the Empire Theatre
for the marriage of Theseus and
Hippolyta; and round about
them the king and queen
resplendent in white and gold,
the courtiers shining in their
armor, the ladies flashing their
sequins and coronets and swirl-
ing their long trains like water-
falls of green and purple, the
Athenian Court glows and pul-
sates like a rainbow.
Another of Michael Benthall’s
Old Vic productions, this “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” is as
astonishing, as welcome and as
exotic in the city of black granite
as the long-legged green spider-
orchids in the hot-houses of the
Botanic Gardens (where there is
also, as another exotic rarity, a
bit of common Australian tea-
tree).
There are, it is true, fantastic
weaknesses in it; a lamentable
Thisbe who plays in a silly fal-
setto scream like some hopeless
and well-meaning lad in village
theatricals ; a Stanley Holloway
far too sophisticated in voice and
mannerism to play Bottom,
exceedingly uncomfortable in a
role which appears to have no
meaning for him ; not much life
in the other yokels and an
amiable neutrality rather than
the proper amorous and
daemonic glitter in the Oberon
and Titania of the dancers
Robert Helpmann and Moira
Shearer.
Indeed, for one who has the
almost lost (but perhaps reviv-
ing) cause of the Australian
theatre at heart, it is a wry
thought to recall how infinitely
better a Bottom one has seen at
a production by May Hollin-
worth in Sydney, tucked away in
the obscure corner where her
Metropolitan used to play: an
actor who showed the bumptious
young yokel exactly as he ought
to be and brought out to the full
the rich comedy of his complac-
ence in Titania’s love, which
Stanley Holloway loses alto-
gether in his mechanical ass’s
head.
But then there are Ann Wal-
ford and Patrick Macnee, Joan
Benham and Terence Longdon
all sparkling and perfect as the
four lovers; and with 26
dancers, four singing girls, and
full orchestra to play Mendels-
sohn’s “Wedding March”; with
Moira Shearer in her gorgeous
red hair; with the courtiers be-
hind the net-curtain in the
opening scene like yellow butter-
flies ; with the fairies in thistle-
down pinks and blues and
mauves like a Degas pastel and
their male partners like Christ-
mas-beetles in dark-green ribbed
with silver and gold; with
Robert Helpmann swirling in a
15ft. cape of dark-green silk;
with Demetrius in an orange
cloak and silver armor, Lysander
like a cock-pheasant in a cloak
of carmine and purple, Hermione
in white and Helena in yellow,
all wandering or sleeping in the
dark-green forest behind a cur-
tain of spider - webs; with
Titania in white and Oberon in
midnight-black at the end, flying
(literally) up towards the ceiling
and out of sight backstage—it
is ballet and spectacle and visual
enchantment on the grand scale
at which this production has
chiefly aimed.
And it has hit its target. One
has never, in any country, seen
the stage look so beautiful.
D. S.
& *> ❖
“The Holly and the Ivy”
This, by Wynyard Browne,
and current at the Independent,
Sydney, is a light little comedy
in Christmas-card colors and
with a good deal of tinselled
sentiment threaded through it.
An English country parson,
with some doubts about his own
purpose and value, is unaware
that his two daughters and his
young son all regard him affec-
tionately as a benign old duffer
who could never comprehend
their difficulties nor share then-
confidences, and feel that his very
calling as a parson cuts him off
from the essential problems of
humanity.
He doesn’t know, for instance,
that the daughter who has looked
after him since his wife died
wants to marry a young Scottish
engineer and go off to South
America, but won’t do it because
she is unwilling to leave him to
fend for himself or to the care
of strangers.
He is also unaware that his
other daughter, a fashion-writer
for slick city magazines, wants
to come home but won’t because,
after falling in love with an
American airman who was killed
during the war and bearing his
child which subsequently died of
meningitis, she is drinking herself
into a state of permanent
alcoholism, and feels that her
father could never understand
the things that have happened
to her.
When he is put to the test, of
course, the old chap shows that
he has a deeper understanding of
their problems than they have
themselves, and the curtain
comes down on Mr. Browne’s
effort with Christmas-bells and
wedding-bells ringing in the
background and trey-bits in the
Christmas-pudding for everyone.
As a stage-piece it 'doesn’t
appear to have any tricks in it,
or, at least, James Mills’s smooth
and straightforward production
makes it look that way. His
timing seems a bit out occasion-
ally, as, for instance, when Diana
Davidson, as the younger sister,
comes in with a skinful and
passes out cold in front of the
assembled family. While she
takes her dive they all stand
around like stuffed owls for what,
in the instant, seems an uncon-
scionably long time. Since Miss
Davidson telegraphs her header
very plainly and in good time
before she does it, it would have
looked rather more credible if
someone had made a jump to
catch her before she hit the floor.
Otherwise little ruffles the
sentimental atmosphere, O. D.
Bisset gives the Rev, Martin
Gregory a measure of human
dignity, a touch of bewilderment
and a shade of temper ; Moray
PoweJ) gives a smoothly detailed
performance as a soldier-
relative ; William Bain makes a
blunt and excellent picture of
the young Scot, and Karl Levett,
as the son, touches-in the quick
impatience of adolescence.
Among the ladies, Mary
Mackay distinguished herself as
the parson’s cranky Irish sister,
as, to a lesser degree, does
Anthea Rush as his sister-in-law.
Pamela Martyn as the elder
daughter is described by some-
one in the play as being too good
to be true, and she plays that line
so thoroughly that she does, in
fact, seem almost that. Diana
Davidson, as the younger
daughter, makes quite a lovely
problem-child, but there is some-
thing about her smile that makes
it hard to decide whether it
springs from thoughts of recon-
ciliation with her father or from
memories of other things.
♦l* ❖
Anton Dermota
The Viennese tenor’s first
Sydney recital was given over
largely to lieder, and in the
Schubert group such exquisitely
wrought songs as “Night and
Dreams,” “Yearning” and “Thou
Art Repose” were softly shaded,
with the voice of caressing
quality. He turned from these
to “Son of the Muses,” in which
the voice bubbled with lilting
joyousness.
In these, in six numbers from
Hugo Wolf’s “Italian Songbook”
and five splendid Richard
Strauss songs, the accompani-
ments, which are as important as
the voice-writing, were beauti-
fully played by the singer’s wife,
Hilde Berger-Weyerwald.
In the operatic field there was
a fine aria from Handel’s little-
know “Rodelinda,” the Portrait
Aria from Mozart’s “Magic
Flute” (which confirmed the
impression gained at his
orchestral-concert appearance
that Dermota is one of the
world’s best Mozart singers), and
“M’Appari” from “Martha,”
which gained from an infusion
of deep feeling.
* ♦>
“Hit and Run”
The New Phillip - street
Theatre’s latest revue, “Hit and
Run,” has most of the elements
which made their previous “Top
of the Bill” so successful, and it
makes an evening of bright
entertainment.
There are some really funny
numbers. The local Writers
provide a Soap Opera where the
battle of the barsoaps and the
flakes is fought out in operatic
arias, a corroboree with
Oodnadatta black gins emulating
the Dagenham Girl Pipers, a
play designed to be frothy and
lighthearted for English audi-
ences and meaty and primitive
for American, a clever drama-
tisation of “Shrimp Boats Is
A’coming,” and a radio feature
where New Australians are
taught American, From the
English numbers, which strike a
more sour note on the whole, the
most amusing are those about the
lady “who came all the way to
town to be insulted,” the two
dejected county girls dressed in
“jerseys and pearls,” and (in a
more hideous way) “Apartment
with Fear” and “The Oldest
Artist’s Model of Them All.”
The whole company is lively
and talented, but Bettina Welch
alone has perfect stage presence
and poise. Lyle O’Hara, con-
sistently funny in every character
part, shows great promise.
But there is much deadwood
in the production and much to
detract from the professional
standard this company aspires to.
Mechanical defects, a late
curtain-rise, unintentional noises-
off, mishaps with scenery, items
on the programme which are not
in the show —these can be over-
come, but more difficult to root
out and more harmful is the
general tendency to stress private
jokes and personal allusions
which rob the show of sophisti-
cation and lessen its final impact.
Artbursts
Current Sydney Exhibitions
Royal Art Society Exhibition
at the Education Department
Galleries: A quiet show rather
weighed-down with a lot of
dutiful and sometimes fussy
painting. Lance Solomon,
Hayward Veal, H. A. Hanke,
Garrett Kingsley, Joshua Smith,
Mary Edwards, J. Salvana and
Meldrumites Albert Rydge and
Molly Johnson bring most fresh-
ness to the oils; G. K.
Townshend, B. J. Waterhouse,
Cedric Emanuel and Mollie
Flaxrhan hold up the watercolor
section.
Spring Exhibition at the
Grosvenor Galleries: A very
nice selection including two little
Tom Robertses, a lovely Lance
Solomon, lesser examples of
Gruner, Streeton and Heysen,
some pleasant ballet paintings by
William Dargie and attractive
contributions from Kenneth
Mac Queen, G. K. Townshend,
Garrett Kingsley, Woodward
Smith and others.
Roland Wakelin at the Mac-
quarie Galleries: Mainly land-
scapes in which the artist’s warm
and rather woolly style tends to
override his subjects. They com-
promise most effectively in “The
Road” and “Hillside, Watson’s
Bay.”
Talkies
Current Sydney Releases
“Genevieve” (State): A witty
English comedy about the annual
London-Brighton outing of the
Vintage Car Club, and about a
race, with side-bet, on the return
journey of two members, with
feminine appurtenances. The
incidental domestic scenes are
hilarious and the cast does full
justice throughout to the excel-
lent material.
“Broken Lance” (Regent):
Spencer Tracy dominates this
story of an autocratic, ruthless
cattle-baron, three of whose four
sons turn on him when age and
illness draw his sting. The film
is also notable for a beautifully
sympathetic study by Katy
Jurado as his Indian wife, and
the splendor of the outdoor
scenery in De Luxe color.
“Elephant Walk” (Prince
Edward): The screen version of
Robert Standish’s novel is given
a slap-up climax, in which scores
of berserk Ceylonese elephants
wreck the palatial teaplanter’s
residence which bestrides the
track they have used for
centuries. Not so convincing is
the human drama of a young
wife’s frustration and loneliness,
worked out by Elizabeth Taylor,
Dana Andrews and Peter Finch,
though the two men do good
work.


FEATHER YOUR NEST
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
BUT the family looked at
her and at each other
mystified, muttering the
name which, astonish-
ingly, meant nothing to any of
them. Rhoda relaxed slowly, a
little relieved at the respite, yet
at the same time indignant.
“Breyley, Breyley,” Alec said,
wrinkling his forehead, “I seem
to have heard of him. Where
does he live?”
“In town,” Rhoda said, “in
Jindulla.”
“What I want to know,” her
father demanded, “is what in
hell does he want to be here
for?”
Rhoda blushed and fell into a
state of acute bashfulness. Her
mother intervened sympatheti-
cally ;
“Don’t be so blind. Can’t you
see he’s in love with her, and she
wants him to see what a fine
family she has, and what a fine
company she has her shares in?”
The others stared at Rhoda,
quite incredulous, while she
nodded her head vigorously to
indicate that her mother was
right. Her father looked as if
he could never believe it, and
Johnny appeared to be
wretchedly embarrassed.
“Father ought to know him,”
Rhoda said sulkily. “He played
bowls against him yesterday.”
“That fellow! ” Kraftmann
shouted, with a start of the
greatest repugnance. “So 4hat
was why he was making up to
me all the time! Now why in
hell do you want to get stuck
with that sort of a man?”
“Now, now. Father,” his wife
asserted. “She’s entitled to have
her man-friend. After all, my
father didn’t approve of you at
first. Yet he allowed you to
come and see me.”
“It’s quite a different thing ;
she wants to bring this fellow
here to spy into our private
affairs.”
“It mightn’t be as different as
you think,” the mother went on
pluckily. “I seem to remember
you asking some very blunt ques-
tions about how much money I
could expect to get from my
father’s estate.”
“It is. different,” Kraftmann
retorted. “This fellow is only
after her money, and he wants
to make sure just how much she’s
got before he starts plotting how
to get it.”
At this Rhoda dropped into a
chair and covered her face with
her hands. Viki, rising like a
stage heroine, ran to her, put her
arms round her,and with her
voice full of lavish, exaggerated
sympathy said, “No, no, they
mustn’t say nasty tilings like that
about my nice little sister.”
“You’re quite wrong about
him,” Rhoda sobbed, unnerved
by her sister’s display. “It’s just
that he takes a great interest in
everything that concerns me.”
“If he was engaged to her,”
Mrs. Kraftmann said, suddenly
eager to get a motherly, match-
making grip on the matrimonial
straw, “I don’t see how we could
really object.”
“Engaged or not engaged,”
Kraftmann declared, “we don’t
want him. He’s the sort of man
I couldn’t stand at our meeting
at any price.”
“If he was actually engaged
to her,” the mother persisted,
quite as willing as any of them
in her guileless feminine way to
use a lever to further her own
ends, “I don’t see what harm
could come of it. Can’t we have
our meeting in the nice way we
always had it when you were all
children, with Father telling you
what to move and what to vote
for. As long as we have that sort
of meeting, what would it matter
if someone else was present?”
“Well,” said Viki, brightening,
“if everyone promised not to
say anything nasty, or ask any
awkward questions, and provided
Rhoda’s friend was only there
to look on and not allowed to
interfere, it wouldn’t be so bad.”
“I say no,” said her father.
“There’s nothing in our articles
of association that permits share-
holders to bring friends to our
annual meetings.”
In the silence which followed
this weighty pronouncement
Mrs. Kraftmann came gliding in
again on her one-track train of
thought.
“The most important thing is
that he’s got to be engaged first;
and he can’t get engaged without
Father’s consent. So what I
suggest is that we ask him here
for a game of tennis next Sunday
to give him a chance to ask
Father. It might turn out that
we’ll all like him very much.”
Kraftmann’s face relaxed into
a crafty smile,
“I’ll agree to that, Rhoda,” he
said heartily. “Next Sunday you
ask him here and we’ll see what
we think of him.”
“That’s not a bad offer,” Alec
advised. “It’s a step in your
direction. Don’t expect to get
everything you want at once.”
But Rhoda was not to be put
off.
“You’re all against me!” she
declared passionately. “You’re
trying to trick me. The only
thing I want is to have Gregory
at the meeting, and I can see
that you’re all trying to stop me.
You’re all down on me; you
never let me have the things I
want. What , a bout Viki living
in Sydney like a fine lady on
money she gets out of Father on
the sly?” Her voice rose as she
struggled from her injured
sister’s fond embraces. “You
needn’t tell any lies about it. I
know all about you! ”
Kraftmann strode round to
Rhoda. It looked as if he would
give her a beating after all.
Rhoda braced herself like a
defiant small girl, and gave an
angry jerk with her shoulder
when he placed his hand on it.
“Look here, Rhoda,” he said,
very nearly at the limit of his
patience, “I’ve put up with a lot
from you today, because I don’t
want any of my children to think
they are being treated unfairly.
But you’re trying to force your
way against the whole family,
and you can’t do that.”
Rhoda jumped up.
“None of you understand,” she
wailed. “You’ve all got the
wrong idea. I want Gregory
here because I think he can
help us. He says that if the busi-
ness end of our company was
run right, we should all be get-
ting ten or fifteen per cent,
dividends with wool at such high
prices. And he can show us how
to do it because he’s Mr. Folio’s
best accountant.”
For a moment there was the
most complete silence. Every-
one stared at her in various
degrees of astonishment. Then
Viki started to laugh.
“She’s calling in the cops
because she thinks her father is
getting away with her dividends.”
She made big eyes at every-
body, trying to get the utmost
drama out of the situation. Then
she added in mysterious tones,
“What awful suspicions has she
got?”
And Mrs, Kraftmann, becom-
ing instantly the wife, when her
husband was thus attacked, said
reproachfully, “You shocking
girl, Rhoda! What a thing to do
to your father! ”
Rhoda burst into angry tears.
“Aren’t any of you intelligent
enough to understand, or have
you all got something to hide?”
Kraftmann swung on her in a
rage.
“Go to your room, Rhoda,”
he roared at her, pointing up the
hall with dictatorial arm, as he
had last done oyer a dozen years
ago. But he was so angry that
no one laughed.
Rhoda rushed out of the room,
pausing in the hall to shout
back:
“Gregory says that any share-
holder has a right to have an
accountant audit the books of a
company if she isn’t satisfied with
the way things are managed.”
And at that unmistakable
challenge the rest of the family
could only gape at each other.
At length Viki said/ full of the
profoundest curiosity, “What
are you going to do now, Pop?”
Kraftmann glared at her.
“Postpone the annual meeting
indefinitely,” he said, and
stalked out of the room.
CHAPTER 111
TN the Kraftmann family noth-
-*■ ing was ever allowed to inter-
fere with the work of the farm.
Rhoda kept to her room for
the rest of Sunday, was taken
frequent cups of tea and aspirin-
tablets by her mother and a
couple of big meals by the less
sensitive Viki, while fleeting
glimpses of her slipping out of
the house at intervals were reso-
lutely ignored by her father.
But, Monday morning being
the beginning of the annual
sheep-census and mating, Rhoda
was busy in the kitchen at her
usual early hour, matching the
self-important industry of her
father and being accepted on
much the usual footing by the
others. A little constraint only
in her greetings, and her conver-
sation strictly confined to busi-
ness matters, were the only re-
minders that anything unusual
had happened on Sunday.
As for her father, with every-
one on the place bringing in
sheep from paddocks and tak-
ing others away again ; putting
mobs into yards, through draft-
ing-races and classing-pens, he
was like a master-mind control-
ling a chess game of gigantic
proportions.
Thousands of sheep to be
examined, ages recorded, mat-
ings arranged. Rams, so ex-
uberantly enthusiastic after
seven months of celibacy that
they seemed to' regard their
thirty-three ewes apiece as a
pitifully meagre allowance, to be
controlled until put in with their
allotted brides and moved off.
Sheep-dogs to be cajoled, en-
couraged, kicked or marked for
extermination; employees to be
commended or cursed; book-
records to be consulted and
scores of new entries to be made.
While all this was going on
Rhoda was likely to be noticed
only if she failed to have a meal
ready punctually, and Rhoda
was never likely to do that at
Classing Time.
On Tuesday evening when
she, rather surprisingly, an-
nounced that Breyley had
accepted the invitation to play
tennis next Sunday, her father,
his mind occupied trying to
reconcile a disparity between the
theoretical sheep in his books
and the actual sheep in his
paddocks, merely gave a dis-
interested grunt. Breyley might
come as a suitor, as many young
men had come in their time to
see his daughters and been
dealt with when the need arose.
Suddenly visited with an idea
about the more important
matter on his mind, he began to
cross-examine Alec severely as
to where a small mob of about
fifty out-of-season hoggets—the
impressive result of one night’s
illegitimate activity by an over-
enterprising young ram —had
been put. Breyley faded out of
the picture, just another young
ram likely to be a nuisance;
though unfortunately, under nor-
mal circumstances, a little be-
yond the solution so effective
with other young rams that
annoyed him too much —a
simple operation with his blood-
less emasculator.
Rhoda watched her father
driving Alec into a corner, as
relentlessly as if he suspected
Alec of selling the missing sheep
on the quiet, instead of merely
mislaying them; even while she
was going in and out of the
room with plates and dishes she
was craning her neck and
inclining her ears, collecting
further evidence of her father’s
tyranny to justify her in rising
up and resisting him.
Her father, eating away busily
between sentences, did not notice
that his plate did not contain
the choicest cuts from the leg
of mutton, the most crisply
browned roast potatoes, the most
delicate sections of the cauli-
flower, the more fragrantly
smooth greens. And he didn’t
notice it on any of the succeed-
ing days of the week.
The Kraftmann tennis-courts
were situated in the middle of a
grazing paddock about a quarter
of a mile from the house. There
were several good economic rea-
sons for having them there
rather than adjacent to the
house. Not only was the land
there naturally flat, so that no
expensive levelling had been
necessary, but the soil was of
such a character that it only
needed to have the grass scraped
off, a high netting fence put
round it and the tennis-courts
were complete.
Another advantage, not fore-
seen at the time the courts were
SYNOPSIS
Characters and story in last
Kraftmann. Grazier, de-
scendant of German pioneers;
stubborn, obstinate, hot-tempered
individualist. To evade taxation,
runs the property nominally as a
private family - company, in
which his say-so is law; has
made it one of the most up-to-
date grazing properties in the
Riverina. At the bowling-club
in near-by Jindulla he meets
Gregory Breyley, and instantly
dislikes him.
Breyley. —Town accountant;
overconfident; has got to know
Rhoda Kraftmann at tennis.
Expects that, like other graziers
whose accounts he has straight-
ened out, Kraftmann could be
shown how to save money in
income-tax and other ways.
Rhoda. Well into her
twenties, and taking more than
a friendly interest in Breyley. Is
sure he could show her father
how to make the property pay
better than the “shareholders’ ”
dividends seem to indicate.
Alec. —Son ; easygoing, good-
fellow ; more interested in his
week’s first instalment:
literary leanings and in enjoying
life than in the property, which
he’s quite content to see his
father run in his own fashion.
Viki. —Other daughter; lively
good-looker, but also unmarried
{“she had, as it were, bypassed
that ceremony”). Home on a
visit from Sydney /where she has
become “citified” and is having
some success running stage- and
singing-classes.
Johnny. —Not of the family,
though practically now one of it.
As interested in the property, and
as proud of it, as Kraftmann.
Also more than a little interested
in Rhoda.
Mrs. Kraftmann. — Motherly,
dominated; believes Father
beyond question where running
the property (and the family with
it) is concerned.
Rhoda has dropped a family
bombshell by announcing at
mealtime that she proposes to
bring Breyley along to the next
“shareholders’ ” meeting. She
had already talked it over with
a decidedly sceptical Alec.


planned, was that players resting
between sets could be enter-
tained by the innocent spectacle
of lambs gambolling in the
spring-time, or their mothers
mating equally innocently in the
summer, or bearing their lambs
with heedless dispatch in the
winter.
Kraftmann had approved of
the site under the impression that
if his offspring were energetic
enough to play tennis for hours
they would naturally have the
energy to walk the quarter of a
mile and back again. The fact
that they invariably used a car
he considered proof that his own
children had not escaped the
decadence of the rising genera-
tion.
The young Kraftmanns had
grown up at a time when, for
people in their position, the
ability to play tennis expertly
was a major social accomplish-
ment. In their youth they had
hardly ever invited anyone to
their place who wasn’t a
skilful player, and they had
accepted the fact that they were
invited for the same reason.
Rhoda had never quite shaken
off this outlook. She was an
efficient and determined player;
there was a certain unorthodoxy
and apparent awkwardness about
her style, a passionate eagerness
to return every ball, and a naive
candor in expressing her triumph
or despair that delighted
partners and spectators.
Because Rhoda wanted to
postpone bringing Breyley face
to face with her father for as
long as possible, and because she
thought it might be less trying it
he had become acquainted with
her brother and sister first, she
arranged that Breyley go directly
to the tennis-courts. Then, of
course, she had to arrange for
the others to, be there to meet
him, and since they wouldn’t go
down unless there were four, she
had to induce Johnny to play.
Johnny did not waste any of
his money on sport, so they had
to lend him a racquet and some
of Alec’s old whites every time
he played. He realised that com-
pared with the young Kraft-
manns he was handicapped in
not having land-owning parents.
But he was doing his best to
overcome this disability with
many extra money-making
activities at weekends; highly
skilled veterinary or mechanical
jobs which he had learned to do,
partly from Kraftmann and
partly from an educational
correspondence course.
Viki turned out in Sydney
tennis fashion, a pair of shorts
so short that Johnny hardly
dared look at her well-shaped
and smooth-skinned legs. Know-
ing very well that Viki would be
vibrantly aware of the presence
of any and every man, and make
him aware of hers, Rhoda in her
modest shorts could hardly speak
to her sister without betraying
her apprehension.
Possibly with the view of
demonstrating to Rhoda that she
had no designs on Breyley, Viki
concentrated a lot of flattering
attention on Johnny, but
Johnny’s attention wandered to
the sheep in the surrounding
paddock. Presently he let an
easy shot go by,
“Isn’t that a ewe down, over
there?” he said, meaning in
sheepman’s language that it
couldn’t stand up.
Alec took a cursory glance.
“It’s only having a rest. You
can’t expect it to walk about all
day.”
“Come on, Johnny,” Viki
urged him. “Keep your mind
on the game.”
But Johnny soon let another
ball pass.
“If it was only having a rest
we’d be able to see its head
sticking up,”
“Yes, that’s light,” Rhoda
agreed. She knew a lot about
sheep, too, and never forgot that,
if one died, about one-tenth of
the loss was hers.
“Oh, come on, Johnny”—
impatiently from Viki—“it’s not
your responsibility.”
But a few minutes later Johnny
shouted in considerable alarm,
“Look, there’s a crow flying
towards it. He’ll have its eyes
out if I don’t go,”
“Yes, yes,” from Rhoda.
“Run, Johnny, run.”
They banged the ball about
casually until Johnny returned,
surprisingly, naked to the waist,
Down the paddock the ewe was
wearing Johnny’s white shirt
over ds bead
“She’ll be all right for a while,
But I really should take her home
straight away and give her a
penicillin injection; I’m afraid
sbe ’s a case of preparturition
toxemia.”
Johnny could talk like a
veterinarian ; he read the free
departmental pamphlets.
» St ti] Brev]ev comes »
Alec said • “that ’’
. 11 „ n S . Y< S
***’ t ™
%
Sme wilt
take you to wa k
utilitv”
Y* t , .
improve"
a W“«d. and immediately Viki
Kpaan tn tpacp pKoHo
“He’s coming P rett y cautiously,
but he might go a lot faster when
he finds out what sort of a family
have ”
“Now, don’t you go saying
things in front of him!” Rhoda
looked at her sister with alarm
j n her eyes. “Don’t you say
anything about me wanting him
to be at our shareholders’
meeting.”
“j tbink he ought to be
warned,” Alec said playfully
“that Father will shoot him
before he lets him attend ”
‘SotsoloudPlease not so
loud,” Rhoda begged because
Bre yl e y was now getting out of
his car beside the tennis-court
Breyl e V as Rhoda greeted
him bea ’ d with c Dont t neous
exuberance because of a recent
highly favorable happening. It
inclined him to extreme polite-
ness with Viki and Alec, and
made it a great honor for him
to associate with any member of
the family.
“When I asked in town how
to find the way to your place ”
he said, “the fellow at the garage
sa j d> ‘Follow the Wagga road
un fii' you come to the most
improved property with the
greenest pastures the best fences
the biggest dams the finest
homestead surrounded hv the
most impressive group
and outbuildings and thnt will
be the Kraftmanns’ place ’ ”
He stopped to ef/e around
u stopped to gaze around
beneficently on all the wide,
1° S g co ,“ n ‘7 side - “ n ‘
t” arred b y the sight of aty othei
homestead which would have
P roc ‘ aimed , tha . hmlts o£ the
R ra^tmann holdings.
those thousands of acres,”
excda ™ e b > “y ou must have
the most valuable property for
dozens of miles around.”
Rhoda smiled amiably, certain
that everybody would have
received the most favorable
impression of her friend. Viki
gave Alec a sly smile, full of the
most worldly-wise conclusions
about him, while Johnny, who
had been hovering modestly in
the background, seemed to make
up his mind very definitely about
what Breyley was * really
interested in.
“I’ll go and look after that
ewe,” he said, as if the farther
he could get away from Breyley
the happier he would be.
As soon as the bothersome
question arose, “Who’s going to
play with who?” Breyley
immediately said with undoubted
eagerness, “Let me play with
Rhoda.”
Rhoda smiled at this perfect
compliment, and she smiled the
more when it became apparent
that he had been only
manoeuvring for an opportunity
to speak privately with her.
“I think I know the answer
already,” he murmured to her
excitedly ; “it’s been sticking out
a mile ever since I’ve laid eyes
on the property. I even got a
clue while I was being directed
here. It’s overcapitalisation.”
Rhoda gazed at him between
doubt and incomprehension.
“All these lavish improve-
ments” Breyley waved his
hands, indicating all the things
he had enumerated so admiringly
—“splendid to have them, no
doubt, but so many, and of such
recent origin, shows that he’s
been slaughtering his dividends
to build up his capital value.”
“And that isn’t a good thing,”
Rhoda felt it safe enough to
venture.
“You pay too much in taxa-
tion. It’s all so out of balance
If I could only get hold of your
books I’d soon show you. I
could show him how he could
reduce his taxation by half,
through increasing his dividends.
You’d be getting the money,
instead of the Government.”
Rhoda was distressed to think
of all that good money gone,
though she was still not entirely
convinced.
“But he’s always said that
what he was doing was saving
our money from going in income
tax.”
“From what I’ve seen,”
Breyley said with authority, “I’d
say that he’s been making a bad
mistake. Of course I can’t say
for certain until I’ve seen his
books; but if he’s thought up a
way of building up capital with-
out incurring heavy income tax,
then he’s a much cleverer man
than I am.”
Rhoda smiled at him to
acknowledge that she discounted
the possibility,
“If he’d only let you look at
his books,” she said with longing
wistfulness.
“I’ll ask him,” said Breyley,
as though it was a very simple
matter; “I’ll ask him after
dinner when he’s in a good mood.
You just mention to him that
I’d like to have a private word
with him in his office, without
telling him what it’s about- You
can leave the rest to me; I’m
used to handling graziers.”
Viki was meanwhile allowing
her sister to make the most of her
opportunity, though she was
filling the air with cultivated and
musical cries of “Fifteen-love,”
and “Sorry, partner,” and “Oh,
beautiful”; and exhibiting her
better profile, and showing her
bare legs to the best advantage
when Breyley happened to look
her way.
She took advantage of the
break in the Breyley-Rhoda
dialogue, caused by Johnny
driving past the court in Alec’s
car with the ewe sitting up in the
seat beside him, still dressed in
his shirt, to throw out a remark
about Johnny.
“He’s been here so long he
thinks he has to look after every-
thing. He’s Father’s consolation
for Alec’s failure to be a good
husbandman.”
“He ought to be useful,” Alec
retorted, “Father bred him for
it.”
Breyley exhibited a little
surprise, hut kept cautiously
silent, Viki’s eyes began to shine
mischievously as she watched his
face.
“Selected the father and the
mother,” she went on, “and
mated them like he does his
sheep.”
Breyley, becoming uncomfort-
able because he was being out-
classed as a tennis-player, even
by the girls, showed signs of
uneasiness at being picked on for
the rustic pastime of leg-pulling.
“He even shot another man
who was trying to get at the
girl,” Viki said, ignoring some
entreating signs from Rhoda.
“Very interesting indeed,”
Breyley said, in the driest
possible manner.
“That’s where we’ve got you.”
Viki exploded into a laugh.
“You look up the records of the
coroner’s court about twenty-five
years ago and see if you don't
find the inquest. Of course, with
a man like our father handling
things, the verdict was ‘accidental
death.’ I’m only telling you this
out of kindness; it’s just as well
for you to know what sort of a
man he is. Don’t risk annoying
him.”
Rhoda exclaimed passionately,
“Viki, you promised Mother
you’d never tell anyone about
that affair!”
Viki laughed merrily.
“If I don’t, someone else will.
In fact it’s the best thing I have
to tell any new person I meet.
You ought to see how it catches
their interest. Some new man I
like the look of and don’t seem
to be impressing enough; or
someone who might be useful
to me; I just say, ‘My father
shot a man in a gun-battle ; then
I dress-up the story to suit the
occasion.”
“I think you’re quite hor-
rible,” Rhoda said, and set her
mouth in a tight, disapproving
line.
For a while Viki acted re-
pentantly ; silent except to call
“Good on you, Rhoda,” or
“Nice work, Sis.” But soon she
burst out again, carrying on
from where she had stopped.
“Of course, I don’t do it with-
out a good reason. It’s publicity
for my business. I’m a business-
woman, you know.”
Breyley was the only person
who didn’t know this.
“I run a school for musical
and dramatic art; it’s a profes-
sion, really, but an awful lot of
business comes into it. I have
three teachers and scores of
pupils. I’ll show you my pros-
pectus when we go up to the
house.”
Breyley was obviously
terested.
“Oh, I get hundreds of
students, but the trouble is that
most of them are such hopeless
duds. What I’m always looking
for is the one with real promise
that I can go to work on. Just
let me have one spectacular suc-
cess. Then I can raise my fees
as high as I like, Once you have
a name you can get away with
anything.
“But you can’t get a name
until you’ve produced a few
topliners. I’ll do that one of
these days. I’ve got a little
soprano now that I think is the
goods; but I just haven’t
managed to place her anywhere
high enough yet. She’s got every-
thing ; voice, looks, presence.
All my work, of course. She
only lacks a bit of push, and
I’m flat-out giving her that.”
She paused for a moment, en-
grossed, it seemed, in working-
out a spectacular coup. Then
she burst out again, but now
her voice had changed from
gaily boastful to resentful.
“She had one chance. I’ll
never forgive her. A chance for
a good part in an opera. I had
everything lined-up with the
director. The audition went off
beautifully. But you’d never be-
lieve how silly she was.
“It seems the director told
her she wasn’t putting enough
passion into her love scene. But
he wasn’t going to put her out
for that. Oh, no! Quite the
contrary! He told her that he
could see that she had obviously
never had any experience of
love, but he thought so much
of her voice that he was pre-
pared to . . . Well, the silly
little fool; she up in a fright
and ran out on him!”
Wretchedly reliving her dis-
appointment, she added with
professional acumen “It would
have improved her voice, too.”
(Continued on next page)
"... .driving past the court in Alec’s car with the ewe sitting up in the seat beside him, still dressed in his shirt....”


SATISFIED UTILITY OWNERS SAY
You can rely on Holden
' im m ~ Mb. FOR ECONOMY
8” 1
Ur- A ’ A te d early «*? ' • 6tt
ftee rnot °”"co® OT bo \rt me
> “ »«-*£*
time ft* t a \\ times a „
| 4 o va3o»' teStOlheSa
“46,000 MILES . . .
e«er than 30 m.p. g .,»
Sported B r ° ZZICC !’ Ste P ne y, S.A.,
ponea recently “t l,
“ d °™ 46,00° mil^r e
been tS ““I* ™ s »«
conditions. Petrol m 'l ndcr all
consistently Ster ' '
“*• P« US'- 30
; * II
rs
ZL
-
,
tk
A
Economy and dependability. That’s what these
typical owners’ letters stress about Holden,
Other owners report favourably on Holden’s ease
of handling, high resale value and low-cost, easy
to get factory guaranteed parts. Additionally,
Holden gives you 6 cyl. 21 h.p. performance,
roomy three-passenger cabin comfort and a
generous load area for a low initial cost. In
view of the very heavy demand for “New Look ”
Holden Utilities, we suggest you
place an order as soon as possible.
ds
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Utility
List Price: £B5O Plus Tax
• There are two Air Chief
Car Radios specially designed
for Holden. • Convenient hire
purchase arrangements are avail-
able through G.M.A.C. •
General Motors’ own Hire
Purchase company.
Australia's Own Panel Van
£865 Plus Tax
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
FB4B
GENERAL M OTORS-H OLDE N’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE • PERTH.
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia ■— m—mm—mm
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD
BTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. JL B. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in aU Country Centres
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO CORNELIUS JOHANNAS TISH BIS -
CHOP (in marriage certificate called
CORNELIUS JOHANNES TIJA BISS-
OHOP) formerly of the ship Pegasus, C/o
Mcllwraith McEacham Limited, 45
Hunter Street, Newcastle. —T A ffE
NOTICE that BETTY THERBSB BISS-
CHOP has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 917 of 1954 (Federal Matrimonial
Cause) on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd day of January 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Solicitor,
44 King Street, Newcastle. —C. A. H.
HARMS. Acting Registrar.
nu , , ...
Rhoda saw her opportunity
Youve got a pretty good
voice, Viki. I suppose it’s still
improving?”
But Viki replied with a stare
cando S r irPnSed mn ° Cent
I never sine now I’m
ton hnsv teaches ” 8 1
But she stonned talking about
hefself fof a P whfle k aflowhS
Brevlev to Practise* urfimer
funted those Iktle atSns'
su?h as fetchinffhalls fn!- Rhoda
such as fetching balls tor Rhoda
and pilotmg her from one end
of the court to the other, and
all those other courtesies which
the game of tennis so convem-
ently provides for a young man
trying to make a favorable
impression on a girl.
At the homestead Kraftmann
was alternately working in his
office and stamping up and
down the hall, his strong, fur-
rowed face wrinkled with tre-
mendous doubts and indeci-
sions ; or staring down towards
the tennis-courts as if trying to
impale Breyley with fiery darts
from his eyes.
His wife was reading a novel,
more or less tranquilly, except
that she raised her head each
time he came out on to the
veranda where she had her deck-
chair. Although there were no
apparent changes in her hus-
band s appearance, she had an
eye on the meters and gauges
that told her the entire story of
what was going on inside some
not particularly complex,
though potentially dangerous,
machine. At the correct moment
she said m tones of the mildest
warning; “Remember that this
might be her last chance.”
Kraftmann swung round,
frowning blackly, but decided to
treat her with cold silence.
“You are a rather unlucky
n .. ~ , , .
father,” she continued in a
pleasantly sympathetic, conver-
sational voice, “to have one
daughter too Attractive to men
to get married and the other
ha s? ly attractive enough
Kraftmann stopped to stare
at her;; trying toi focus his mind
a* mea “ n B less and COntra -
? ratC ' f - ,
Wh J * to ° unattractive? ’ he
der ? 6 warning her not to
T- St any shadow of blame on
him.
“she’ll never forgive you if
you interfere between them.
she’s serious this time. Just like
sh e is about her dividends.
You’d better be careful what
you do about either.”
She still spoke in ,the mildest
manner, and Kraftmafin listened
as to a child that couldn’t pos-
sibly understand what it was
talking about and hence need
not be reproved.
“In this book,” she said, hold-
ing up her novel, “there is a
dominating father who broke up
his daughter’s love affair think-
mg he was doing the right thing
for her. But he drove her to
suicide.
Kraftmann lost his temper.
Every time you try to inter-
f£re with something I m doing
y° u f ° and read a book about
it Why don t you ever read one
about a father or a husband who
does the right things.
“I don’t need to, dear,” she
said, giving him a charming and
admiring smile ; “I just need to
watch you.
Kraftmann glared at her.
“You’re right. Even if you
don’t know it,” he assured her,
so arrogantly that she made a
little gesture of agreement.
He went stamping off to his
room while his wife resumed her
reading; a costume-novel of the
kind she liked, with hero,
heroine and villain; she never
read a book with a contempor-
ary setting, because in them, so
she said, the characters were
never “real ”
" e £ e / ese X Kraftmann came
r resenwy jviaiimcii
parching out again. T P -
he had come
be solved by
intense thought during violent
exercise ; and since it was a Sun-
day and he no longer played
tennis, there seemed no way of
solving it apart from walking
up an d down the hall and round
the verandas.
“The trouble with Rhoda”—
Mrs Kraftmann caught him on
the tLt she is torn
out of her age jf s b e b ad been
b om two generations ago when
tLk of how al?’the mfn would
haveteenCompeting Tor ter In
those days when virtue and
honesty and industry counted,
s he would have been the fore-
most of them all. Nowadays
m en only think of glamor, but
what use is that in running a
house or raising a family?”
Kraftmann scribbled a column
G f fig ure s on the veranda-post
and tried to add them up .
“Honesty is one of Rhoda’s
wors t handicaps,” Mrs. Kraft-
mann resumed, so completely
upsetting her husband that he
broke the lead in his pencil in
b is irritated scratching-out.
“she’s too honest to pretend she
admires men. When she thinks
they’re wrong, or stupid, she just
tells them so ; but you don’t get
on with men doing things like
that. Now, Viki flatters men
shamelessly, and they think she’s
wonderful. And Rhoda doesn’t
try to change the shape of her
figure, or put on a whole new
complexion she doesn’t own ;
s h e ’s too honest for that, too.
But other girls get admired for
it.”
Kraftmann strode away again,
muttering pounds, shillings and
pence. Yet because he was in
trouble of some kind, after a
while he gravitated back to his
wife, and though he didn’t
attempt to confide in her, he
gave her all the opportunity she
needed to continue talking to
him.
“And she’s a good girl, too.
Not that all other girls are im-
moral. But so many of them
talk and act, and dress, too, in
a way to deliberately inflame
men’s passions. Rhoda would
never do that; she’d rather be
good friends with a man than
depend on all that sex stuff to
attract them. Not that she’s
lacking in any way, I’m sure.
She’d make a man a proper wife
in every respect. I’m certain. It’s
just that she’s got too much self-
respect to act like a silly flapper.”
Then she had a lucid after-
thought: “Her intelligence is a
handicap, too; if she didn’t
know so much about money and
shares and dividends she
wouldn’t get into trouble with
you.”
Kraftmann gave a genuine
old-fashioned snort through his
large hairy nostrils and left her,
to return no more.
At the tennis-court they were
sitting down for a rest. Into a
pause in the conversation Viki
exclaimed:
“I don’t want to talk all the
time, but if somebody else
doesn’t start there’s something
I want to ask Gregory’s profes-
sional advice about.”
Rhoda instantly appealed to
Alec.
“Isn’t there something you
want to ask- Gregory? What
about that big claim that
foreigner is making on you over
your car-accident? He might be
able to help you with that.”
“Oh, I don’t want to talk
about my affairs. I’d be as bad
as Viki.”
Viki raised her eyebrows in
exaggerated protest.
“I don’t always talk about
myself,” she objected. “You’ll
see now. I’m going to tell
Gregory about Alec’s car-smash,
since he won’t.”
And off she went before any-
one could stop her, hands and
face pantomiming the story as
she told it
“It was about a year ago
now. Alec had gone to the post-
office for the mail. It usually
took him about twenty minutes
to go down and back again, the
way he drove in those days. But
this time we waited and waited,
but he didn’t turn up. Then one
of the neighbors rang up to say
he’d had an accident in front of
their place. We rushed down in
Father’s car, and there was
Alec’s motor, right off the road,
through a fence and upside-
down, with poor Alec lying on
the grass, covered in blood and
unconscious, where the neigh-
bors had dragged him from the
wreck.
“But that wasn’t all. There
was a small car lying on its side
on the road, and fastened to the
back of it was a heap of wreck-
age, You had to look at it
quite hard to recognise that it
had been a caravan.
“A foreigner who’d been
travelling in the small car was
trying to explain how it hap-
pened ; a big blond man with
round, innocent eyes, and big fat
cheeks, and a bald head with a
funny fringe of hair right rOund
it. The tears were running down
his face, and he was all dusty
and dishevelled with his clothes
torn, but he was talking like a
lawyer, trying to prove to every-
body in very bad English that
all the fault had been Alec’s.
“Almost everyone in the dis-
trict came to see, and after the
ambulance had taken Alec away
they stayed there, trying to work
it out. I couldn’t help being
amused at them. Talking in
their slow-thinking country
way; ‘Darned if I know how it
happened ; straight, flat road ;
no other traffic; no straying
stock ; no blowout, and he just
goes and crashes into the cara-
van like that.’
“All the time the foreigner
was explaining it to some new
listener, as if each person had
to be convinced separately: ‘I
go slow; twenty, twenty-five
kilometres the hour. Sit on good
side of street. Other car come ;
come very fast; go left hand, go
right hand. First I not trouble.
He look, he see me. O.K. But,
no! He no look. No see me.
He stop on wrong hand of street.
I perspire.’ ”
“Don’t be silly,” Alec inter-
rupted. “He doesn’t use that
ridiculous pidgin. Give it up
and keep your mind on the
story.”
“I won’t give it up, and he did
talk like that. Then he said;
T pull wheel more off. He also
more off. I desperate. I look
in other car to see why he drive
like that. But incredible! I see
no man in other car. Only
newspaper across window.’ Each
time he stopped when he got to
that part, and very deliberately
taking care that they were watch-
ing exactly what he was doing,
he got into his car (after a
dozen men had put it on its
wheels again) and spread a
newspaper across the inside of
the windshield. Then he’d start
to talk twice as fast: T take
fright. I think in that car is no
man. I save my life. Igo fast
on other hand of street; but to
save caravan it is not possible.’
“Then he pulled a terrible
face and made a dramatic ges-
ture at the wreck with both
hands, like that. Next he’d rum-
mage among the ruins, pull out
a ragged scrap of canvas with
daubs of paint on it and say:
‘Masterpiece of Stromholz,
supreme of artists of Bohemia.
•Of great antiquity also.’ Then
his fat cheeks would start to
shake and the tears flow faster
from his eyes.
“Of course nobody believed
him. It sounded too fantastic
that any man would be reading
a newspaper while driving a car
at fifty miles an hour ; and any-
one could see that Alec had
been driving very fast by the
mess he’d made of the caravan,
and the hole he’d torn in the
ground when his car turned
over. Even the police couldn’t
believe it, yet it was true. That’s
the sort of thing Alec had been
doing because he was so bored
with Jindulla.”
“Let’s start playing again,”
Alec said, embarrassed. “I’ll
play with Rhoda and we’ll
trounce Viki.”
But Viki still had something
to say.
“Alec hasn’t been the same
man since. It cost him an awful
lot for repairs, and the foreigner
has been harassing him ever
since, claiming fantastic damages
for his European oil-paintings.
He’d been selling them to
wealthy squatters at fabulous
prices.”
(To be continued)


The Slow Combustion Cooker that
GIVES
GALLONS
WATER
AND COOKS FOR 30 PEOPLE
on any type .of solid fuel
&
/JWWOOWMOWJW^^
lIS \d
VIW,VA‘AVAVA’.VVA'V^V///rtVVVVyXr
rVs>-
s^ssge
pip
-aisg^gis
fe
m
r
"S
m
Rayburn does the Job of expensive
Cookers at Half the price
£ 238'17'8
(freight extra)
Rayburn No. 40 is the only ALL FUEL slow combustion cooker of its size complete with Hot
Water Service. AND Rayburn, with its 24 hour continuous burning is ready to cook for up to
30 people any time of the day or night. Less to buy, less to instal and less to operate, Rayburn
No. 40 is your best cooking investment.
SUPPLIES HOT WATER FREE
Free hot water for Bathroom, Kitchen, Laundry—anywhere it’s
needed —is yours with Rayburn No. 40. Water is automatically
heated all the time your Rayburn is alight.
FOUR SPECIALLY VENTED OVENS
Two heat controlled cooking ovens, each fitted with thermometers,
and two warming ovens, give you plenty of space for roasting,
baking and keeping dinners hot.
EASY TO OPERATE
Two simple controls only regulate the heat of Rayburn No. 40—
a flue damper and a spin wheel on the ashpit door. Temperatures
can be accurately controlled and varied at will.
BURNS ANY TYPE OF SOLID FUEL
Fuel is no problem with Rayburn No. 40. This amazing slow com-
bustion cooker burns coke, coal, wood or briquettes—and light
fuel consumption keeps Rayburn’s operating costs down.
LARGE FAST HOTPLATE
Rayburn’s large hotplate, 38£" wide, 9" deep, is complete with hinged
insulated cover to keep heat in when the hotplate is not in use.
The centre section of the hotplate is for fast boiling—the ends for
slow cooking.
RAYBURN NO. 40 COMPLETE WITH ALL THESE ACCESSORIES
Rayburn No. 40 is supplied complete with hinged hotplate cover,
chrome hand rail and brackets, splash back, plate rack and wrot
welded boiler for water heating.
PAY AS YOU USE
Rayburn Cookers are available for a low deposit and easy weekly
or monthly payments. Your nearest Rayburn dealer will advise
you and give you full information.
RAYBURN
NO. 40
INSULATED SLOW COMBUSTION COOKER AND WATER HEATER
For the smaller house-
hold Rayburn No. 3
does ALL the cooking
and supplies all the Hot
Water for average family
requirements.
See Rayburn No. 40 at your nearest Rayburn dealer
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS
OVERSEAS CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
187 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
293 Queen Street, Brisbane. Charles Street, Adelaide.
434 William Street, Perth.
Mail this Coupon
TO OVERSEAS CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.
Please send me details of RAYBURN NO. 40 and
the address of my nearest dealer.
NAME
ADDRESS.....
R7/B.


II
A**?*- 2
m
m
/
IWumwq
I'm tough on Clothes
but STAMINA clothes are tougher."
‘‘That’s because I outgrow my Stamina clothes
before I outwear them. Seems like you just can’t
wear them out.
“Daddy wears Stamina, too. He says they
make their clothes from pure,
all-wool Crusader Cloth and
that lasts for ages and ages.
You have never seen a sheep
with a worn-out coat, have you ?
There’s nothing tougher than
£ure wool.”
CIO
HIS
a
ASK FOR
Stamina
B(HfjCfatAe4
f TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
6W2.113
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GEORGE CHARLES ANDERSON late
of Flat 2 40 Hall Street Bondi Beach. —■
TAKE NOTICE that MARY McSPADYAN
ANDERSON has filed a Petition No. 4938
of 1953 praying for a divorce from
GEORGE CHARLES ANDERSON on the
ground of desertion If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of De-
cember 1954 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, of 2 York
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Acting
Registrar.
Public Notice
I. MAX MANHEIM, of Dutch nationality,
bom at The Hague, resident eight years
in Australia, now residing at Asnfield,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Jf/ie ALL-BRITISH
AU'DRlliai)
(muggy
gbuoiC
From
25/-
65/-
B
£
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO. U&. LONDON
GUARD
PROTECTA
TILL
Callable for every type of basin*” «
all Sale*. Credit*. Payout* etc. Stronfiy bnWJ.
pleasing to appearance. Send for * u, ‘ d
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. P#. WO.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Som Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Oo» (Auiw
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of How to Build Your
Home in Natural Stone. —5896.
To buy copy of W. R. MacLaurin’s
Economic Planning in Australia, 1929-
1936, published by P. S. King,
London.—sB97.
Copies of magazines and news-
papers containing criticisms of
Douglas Stewart’s play “Fire on the
Snow.”—5898.
To buy second-hand copies of books
by Henry Lawson.—5899.
Copy of old-time drawing, - pub-
lished about 56 years ago, called “A
Clubman’s Dream,” showing club-
man dreaming that he was a gold-
miner.^—5900.
To buy copy of In Place of
Splendour by Constance De La Marre.
—5901.
Information Sought
(!) What is the Gaelic word for
"sunset”? (2) Some information on
Gaelic ? (3) Is Scottish Gaelic the
same language as Irish Gaelic?
(1) Gaelic has no one word for
“sunset”; it has to be put as “descent
of the sun below the horizon.”
“Grian” (from “gher,” warm;
“grios,” heat) is “sun”; “grianan” is
sunny place; there are also compound
words such as “grian-loisgte,” sun-
burnt ; “grian-chrios,” zodiac; “grian-
gheal,” sun-bright. (2) Gaelic is a
branch of the Celtic language (Welsh
is another branch); today (according
to Everyman's Encyclopaedia) these
Celtic languages are confined to a few
thousand people in Scotland, the west
of Ireland, the Isle of Man, Wales
and perhaps parts of Cornwall.
Gaelic has had its influence on the
development of the English language,
despite contrary assertions; at the
time of the Roman invasion of Britain
it was the common language of the
greater part of the country. The
absence of much in the way of written
records of Gaelic is due largely to
ruthless destruction by the Danes and
Norsemen. The Irish script in which
Gaelic is written today is a develop-
ment of the medieval Irish writing of
the Latin alphabet. It has no connec-
tion with the ancient Oghamic script
(of straight strokes placed in various
positions around a central stem-line)
used by the Celtics of pre-Roman
Britain. (3) They are essentially the
same language, with only minor
differences.
* * * *
What parts of the world are below
general sea-level ?
The figures given in parentheses are
the greatest depths (approximately)
below mean sea-level. In Europe, the
Netherlands coastal areas (15ft.). In
Asia, the Jordan Valley, Dead Sea
(1290 ft.); Turf an Basin, Sinkiang
(980 ft.); Caspian Sea (85ft.); Trucial
Oman-Qatar (70ft,). In Africa, Salt
Plains depression, Eritrea (385 ft.);
Shott Melghir and El Gharsa, Algeria-
Tunisia (90ft.); Libyan Desert de-
pression—Qattara (440 ft.), Faiyum
(150 ft.), Wadi Rayan (140 ft.), Sittra
(110 ft.), and several others. In
America, Death Valley (275 ft.);
Salton Sea (245 ft.). Australia has one
such area below sea-level, Lake Eyre
(40ft.)
* * ♦ *
(7) What does the red-whiskered
bulbul look like? (2) How and when
was it introduced here ?
(1) It is somewhat larger than a
house sparrow, brownish above, grey
and white below, and blackish about
the head. Distinguishing features are
a sharp black crest and a patch of
crimson beneath the tail. (2) It
appears to have been introduced in
Sydney in 1905; possibly a pair
escaped from an aviary or were given
their freedom by thoughtless owners,
* * * ♦
Brief Answers
GJ.F.: (1) E. Esdaile and Sons,
Pty., Ltd., 42 Hunter-street, Sydney.
(2) Write Furnace Technology Pty.,
Ltd., 20 Burton-street, Sydney
R.T.F.: Seedling apricots are usually
very slow at coming into bearing, and
it may be 8 Or 9, or even 10, years
before fruit in any quantity is ob-
tained from the tree E.R.; Write
Inspector of Foreign Dividends,
Neville House, 55 Eden-street, King-
ston-on-Thames, Surrey, England.....
R.J.: The modern system of punctu-
ation was introduced by the Venetian
printer, Manutius, in the latter part
of the fifteenth century... .P.F.:
Probably the position in the garden
is the cause. Move it to a sunny
sheltered place and add a little sand
to soil, Bad drainage which holds the
water about the roots is fatal to
daphne shrubs; and keep “hot”
manure and fertilisers away from it.
H.M.: Solar halos are caused by
refraction and reflection of the sun’s
rays by ice crystals. They can only
occur in the presence of cirrus clouds,
which are composed of ice crystals,
and are frequently observed thrown
out in front or at the rear of a storm
system AJ.McK.: The installation
of an outboard motor on a speed-
boat, in addition to the inboard motor,
would not increase the speed, as the
propeller of the outboard engine
would be moving in the slipstream of
the main screw H.L.J.: (1)
Calcium carbide is manufactured by
fusing together very pure coke of
high carbon anthracite coal and very
pure lime in an electric furnace. (2)
The carbide is allowed to cool anti is
then broken up into lumps. Owing
to its affinity for water, it must be
packed in moisture-proof containers.
R.D.: The poem first appeared
in the libretto of the masque “Alfred,”
written by Jarhes Thomson and
Mallet, and is ascribed by most
authorities to Thomson, best known
as the author of The Seasons.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.A.: Still among the poetical
potterers M.W.S.: ’Twas read and
rejected “in the grey that comes at
evening”... .G.R.: Cricket poem was
run out.,. .E.E.P.; That river is
meandering its way back to its source.
... .M.A.: Sorry, but we can’t spare
the time to go to Singapore
H.8.L.: It didn’t stand up to the
office bulldozer R. 8.: Too slap-
dash for us R.R.8.: A run-of-the-
mill lament for departed friends
S.M. and J.K.K.: Surely it didn’t
take two to produce that? N.L.F.:
Send it to Bob B.B.: It suffered
the fate of most first efforts
C.W.C.: When last heard your
“bumptious chanticleer” was crowing
in the basket P.Q.: Poems
addressed to the poet’s native land
rate a bob a dozen S.R.K.: You
are allowed four lines:
Wee Willie Winkie
Ordered one more pinkie.
Then he got a dreadful shock,
Someone shouted “six o’clock.”
8.J.0.: What’s made you so
gloomy this week? M. de J.R.:
Why not advertise for one? E.H.:
Admired its brevity, but not its lumpi-
ness J.S.; Oh, lucky you (and a
score of others) to be able to “Dream
the hours away by the sleepy river-
side”. .. .T.L.L.: You’re no poet, but»
at least you’re cheerful R. 5.8.:
Never have we been soaked by so
many dewdrops M.L .P.: That
plumber plumbed the depths of the
basket R.E.: Bought Cynthia a
bottle of sunburn lotion and sent her
home W.H.: At least you take it
gaily G.F.: Couldn’t determine
whether it was a poem about early
roses or potatoes D.G.E.: No
hope for “Hope”.... J.D.R.: Keep
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
on trying... .D.W.M.: Still suffering
from the shock of “The shellfish
hackles of his soul” 8.8. (Goondi-
windi): It was wrecked on the
“black malignant fangs of rock”
E.F.: We had to buy another basket
to accommodate all the Petrov poems
received S.S.: We don’t know
what it is all about, but here goes:
Cranking, -whirring
Spinning, turning;
Vibrating, rocking;
Banging, knocking;
Sometimes running smooth and mellow.
Sometimes harsh with roar and bellow.
... .A.G.: We must remember to sing
one of them to our baker... .GA.R.:
Duly noted that there are some who
prefer the song of “the twittering
lark and the magpie’s call” to a
bottle of wine and a comely wench.
... .T.C.: Can find space for the last
three lines:
Australians all are rural lovers fond;
Yet holiday times oft find positions re-
versed,
And rurals enjoy the city they may have
cursed.
P.R.N.E.: Australia, at the
moment, seems to be full of poets who
just want to lie underneath shady
trees 8.L.: Thirty-six lines of
tosh J.R.: The Religious Editor
was profoundly shocked that a lass of
19 could write with such knowledge
and so feelingly about a hangover
WJ.McA.: We passed your message
on L.R.F.: It’s going home....
C. 8.: Those restless yearnings flut-
tered out the window G.McK.,
K.T., D.T.L., F.E., and C.L.: Spring
poems on their way back to West
Maitland, Westmead, Yangoon, St.
Kilda and Pymble J.A.W.: Poor
fellow!:
He didn’t drink, he didn’t smoke.
To gamble was a sin.
Everyone thought him quite a joke.
He didn’t read The Bulletin.
E.W.: Too frail for us
R.S.: The worth of a poem is not
determined by the speed with which
it is written N.R.M.G.: Unmoved
by Marlene’s charm... .Y. 8.: No
settling-place here for your cockatoos.


An Office-boy’s Odyssey
5. — People, Principles, Politics
By J. E. WEBB
(STRAIGHTWAY discovered
on being admitted to The
Bulletin brotherhood that I
had come to a happy office;
and a happy office it still is. To
a newcomer suspicious of news-
paper-proprietors it was a
privilege to serve under men as
just and considerate as William
Macleod and S. H. Prior; and
the example they set inspires the
present conductors of the paper,
of whom, and of the staff, all
friends of mine, I will say no
more.
Macleod had been managing-
director for many years, but
was approaching retirement. He
had married the charming lady
who wrote “The Woman’s
Letter,” and who, like her hus-
band, had a kind word for
everyone on the staff. Prior
was the soul of honor and a
writer of rare distinction, what-
ever the subject he tackled and
whatever treatment it required.
But he worked too hard, as
Edmond had done, and died
before his time.
John Dailey, the associate-
editor, was another interest-
ing character. He was the office
fashion-plate,, being always im-
maculately turned out, but there
was nothing foppish in his make-
up or in his writing. He was a
bold horseman, and had got into
the A.I.F. by sheer persistence,
passionately invoking the
memory of his father, W. 8.,
when rejected for partial
deafness.
It was a blow to all when told
we should never see John
Dailey’s impish smile and dap-
per little figure again. A daring
fisherman who frequented the
glorious sweep of coast from
Manly to Palm Beach, he had
been washed off the rocks at
Avalon into the old Pacific. The
body was never recovered.
One of the things on which
John and I agreed was that
Edmond was a genius. Jimmy
had wit, humor, ideas, learning
(though he never paraded it), a
boundless knowledge of affairs
and a tremendous capacity for
work; in a word, everything.
But over the years he took too
much out of himself, and was in
failing health when I met him
for the first time.
A short stout man with an
enormous head, the face with its
tuft of beard broadening into a
quizzical smile, he would come
into the office once a week,
always welcome, with a (to us)
thrice-welcome handful of
“copy,” the proofs of which we
would eagerly read when the
comps had done with it.
Hopkins (“Hop”) and Norman
Lindsay were occasionally to be
seen in the office, but did
little cartoon-work: the tall,
dignified Hopkins, who looked
like a character from Huckle-
berry Finn, because he had
grown old and Norman because
of a diversity of other interests.
Still boyish in appearance and
manner, though turned 40,
Norman had gone to five in
Springwood, there to take
up painting, modelling, music,
and only Mrs. Norman and
privileged visitors to his moun-
tain retreat know what else.
David- Low had left for
London, where he was to become
the acknowledged captain of the
pen-and-pencil craft, as Phil May
had been after Phil left The
Bulletin.
Of Bulletin poets of the
’nineties, A. G. Stephens’s nest
of singing birds, I saw chiefly
Henry Lawson and Roderic
Quinn, and poor Henry was only
a shell of a man, not long for
this world. Rod was different:
a tall, well-preserved man in the
fifties, with dreamy eyes and
gentle manners. He had lost the
divine afflatus but was mercifully
unaware of it; and Wednesday of
every week would see him pace
along the corridor to the editor’s
office, a copy of verse in his
hand. It was rarely worth pub-
lishing, but was always accepted
and paid for. We used to call it
“the rent verse,” but never in
the author’s hearing; for we all
liked Rod, and none of us would
have hurt him for the world.
Only once did I hear Rod
Quinn raise his voice in anger,
albeit his anger was of the
mildest description, A public
man in whom he took an interest
had been refused one of the
plums then being distributed,
and Rod couldn’t get over it.
“Isn’t it a shame. Jack?” he
said, mentioning his friend’s dis-
comfiture. “They won’t give the
Irish a chance at all!” Mr.
Dooley was then Premier, and
was having a rare old Donny-
brook with the McGirrs,
+ +
My special friend was Dr.
Fiaschi, a man with a heart of
gold. The doctor used to gather
me up and take me to his Mac-
quarie-street rooms, where, once
a week, we had a merry meeting
with kindred spirits, among
them Dr, (now Sir Herbert)
Schlink and General Manchester.
The doctor knew everybody,
and he would conduct us
to Billy Hughes’s house, where
we listened half the night,
entranced, to Billy’s flow of
anecdotes, of which he had an
unequalled store.
The international situation be-
came threatening, and we Bulle-
tin men did what we could to
prevent Australia being dragged
into war in support of causes
that were not worth supporting:
that of the Reds in Spain, whom
even Washington, then a prey
to pro-Red hysteria, has aban-
doned by coming to terms with
Franco, that of the Czechs and
that of the Poles. The war
came. It is not for me to
trace the course of events or dis-
cuss the consequences, conse-
quences which, incomplete as
they are, were undreamt of by
any of those who “swelled the
war-whoop.” The years had
taken their toll; and not long
after the last shot was heard I
retired. I had been editor for
15 years.
In Conclusion
T HAVE lived in an age
of revolutions, and most
of them are still going on. Not
only revolutions of the kind that
Robespierre and Lenin aimed at
and Stalin achieved, or thought
he had, and of the sort that, be-
ginning with the deadliest wars
ift the white man’s history, have
led to his losing nearly all Asia
and Africa and having to choose
between the abandonment of war
and the threatened extinction of
his cities. There have been revo-
lutions in means of communica-
tion, in the production and use of
industrial machinery, in building
and the equipment of homes, in
working - hours, in entertain-
ment, in the status and dress of
women, in all manner of things.
In one of these revolutions we
Australians can fairly rejoice.
There has been a great and
probably permanent redistribu-
tion of national income. We owe
this to the efforts of forgotten
members of anti-sweating leagues
(employers as well as employees),
of journalists like Edmond and
Syme, of public men (by no
means all Labor), and, in later
years, of trade-unions and indus-
trial tribunals (Higgins is still
an honored name). The crazy
vogue of gambling, encouraged
as it is by Governments, news-
papers and radio-stations, is a
poor return for the labors of the
wage-reform pioneers, who were
not spared to see the extirpation
of the sweater.
That applies also to women
The writer of these articles,
John E. Webb, was editor of
The Bulletin from 1933 until
1948.
who gamble, for the wickedest
forms of sweating were practised
at the expense of their grand-
mothers in the few occupations
open to Grandma when she was
young. As the reforming spirit
has grown and spread, these call-
ings have been multiplied many
times. Withal the ladies have
been freed from the old morbid
separation of the sexes which
began in classrooms, from dis-
franchisement (regarded as one
of the just penalties of Eve),
from their servitude to whale-
bone and dust-accumulating
skirts, and from the ban on their
participation in field and aquatic
sports which would have sup-
pressed a Marjorie Jackson and
a Lorraine Crapp. I remember
the arrival of mixed bathing and
the hideous costumes in which
the innovators had to encase
themselves to fend off the police.
Nowadays, on our bathing
beaches, as Edmond observed of
certain ballerinas, you can see
nearly everything the young ones
have “except their immortal
souls”; and nobody is a penny
the worse.
But new tyrannies are arising,
and though woman is the chief
sufferer she unfortunately accepts
them with the docility she has
always extended to the caprices
of fashion, even to old girls slit-
ting their skirts and having their
hair dyed blue. I
In Sydney and Melbourne
especially, Government-owner-
ship of transport, which was to
have showered communities with
blessings as the Fabian Socialists
conceived it, has become the prey
of hold-up gangs in labor-unions.
The victims are nearly all those
least able to suffer this evil-
doing: persons unable to utilise
other means of transport; house-
wives ; the very old and the very
young.
By bringing their voting-power
to bear against the chicken-
hearted Governments respons-
ible, and by organising mass
demonstrations and the like
against the stony-hearted savages
concerned in these outrages,
women could put a stop to them,
but the ladies content themselves
with uttering useless complaints.
Already deprived of conveni-
ences which even their grand-
mothers enjoyed, home-delivery
of butchers’ meat, groceries,
vegetables and bread, depriva-
tions which tend to make young
matrons look old before their
time, women are threatened
by other Labor-union blather-
skites with the loss of their tra-
ditional Saturday-morning shop-
ping. Surely there are among
them stout-hearted sisters pre-
pared to model themselves on
that
Village Hampden, who, with
dauntless breast,
The little tyrant of his fields with-
stood.
It would mean braving ridi-
cule and obloquy, but it wduld
be worth while.
+ • +
“Sooner or later,” wrote Wilde
or some other cynic, “we pay for
what we do” ; and as often as not
we pay in queer ways for what
we get. We got the aeroplane —
and the aerial bomber; the
motorcar —and the hit-run mur-
derer ; moving-pictures —and
Hollywood; radio —and the
loud - voiced “comedian,”
the illiterate who does the
racing stuff, the pretentious
bore who lectur.es us on
affairs. It was confidently pre-
dicted that films and broadcast-
ing would raise general standards
of taste and speech. In this coun-
try they have done nothing of
the kind ; and, even without tele-
vision, they have dealt such
severe blows to the legitimate
theatre that its future is doubt-
ful.
In the art of public-speaking,
radio notwithstanding, there has
been a dreadful decline. Menzies
stands alone and unapproached ;
but, clever and all as he is, he
is no orator as Deakin and
Anstey were; he could never
move an audience as they did
many times. His place is rather
with Barton and Holman, King-
ston and Watt (and, of course,
Curtin). Trailing these men
were “characters” like Crick and
Norton ; Dr, Maloney ; Paddy
Glynn ; Vosper and Walker in
the West. The “characters” were
all interesting fellows who could
hold a crowd. They did some
of their speaking from street-
corners, though they (and their
public) preferred hotel balconies,
but they would have scorned to
use that tone-flattening infliction
the microphone. Our public life
has ceased to breed “characters,”
and it is all the duller for their
disappearance. Even the occa-
sional crook who has to quit in a
hurry is a dull dog.
In truth our politics have be-
come professionalised to an'ex-
tent undreamed of when pay-
ment of members had its modest
beginnings. The politician is our
new aristocrat; an island of
privilege totally surrounded by
Government employees, and in
most of the States outrageously
overpaid for the little he conde-
scends to do. There is no zeal
for reform in the political quar-
ter. Yet our constitutional
apparatus is working badly, and
is decidedly unsuited to the
doubtful age on which Australia
has entered.
Our Federal Constitution was,
of course, copied from that of
the United States; President
omitted —a serious, if necessary,
omission, for the President has
great powers which cannot be
invoked, much less exercised,
here —British Cabinet and Swiss
referendum added. None of us
old-stagers who have studied it
in action from the outset would
allow that it has fulfilled our
hopes.
We have seen the referen-
dum transformed into a policy-
wrecking or delaying expedient;
seen it degenerate into a means
of denying the national Govern-
ment power to mobilise all its
forces for the waging of war, of
refusing it the right to strike at
a conspiracy against the nation
and its institutions and to expel
foreign-born conspirators, and
(in N. S. Wales) of inflicting an
idiotic bar-closing hour on
people in torrid and temperate
parts alike —this in the name of
“temperance,” though it benefits
only the Trade. And in the
course of half a century we have
seen this or that section of the
Constitution challenged so con-
stantly in our courts, with, in
many cases, appeals to the Privy
Council, as to have come to won-
der whether there is anything
final in it.
How ridiculous at first, and
how trying afterwards, the young
Queen and her consort must have
found our medley of Ministers
and members and the multitudin-
ous friends and acquaintances
encompassing them (incidentally,
a Perth editor told me that when
her Majesty reached his city she
had lost 141 b. in weight).
They were not so plagued in
Canada, when the lady visited it
as Princess Elizabeth, nor will
they be when she goes again as
Queen, In Canada there is no
rivalry of panoply or conflict of
powers. Its divisions, now ten
in number, are provinces, not
States; and the provincial legis-
latures are modest affairs. On-
tario, with a million more people
than N. S. Wales, has 90 pro-
vincial members. Above all, the
Parliament at Ottawa, like the
one at Westminster, can do any-
thing “except make a man a
woman or a woman a man.” No
other sort of Parliament works
well among English-speaking
people bred in the British tradi-
tion.
Of the decline of the Aus-
tralian Labor party I will say
little. It is not a pleasant subject
to one whose first vote was
cast for Labor, and who ad-
mired its early leaders, particu-
larly Watson and Fisher. What
a fine figure of a man Fisher was,
and what a noble bearing he
had! He was removed too soon
for the welfare of his party ; but
he was spared the bitterness of
seeing it degenerate into a con-
tinent-wide Tammany, oscillating
between Communism and Catho-
lic Action.
I have lived to see the rise and
fall of empires, and see the great-
est of these, as well as giving up
its predominant position in Asia
and Africa, abandon the very
name of empire. I have seen the
U.S.A., its Civil War still a recent
memory and its army reduced to
28,000 officers and men, tackle
and bring down imperial Spain —
Spain, now one of its wards, with
Turkey (“the Sick Man of
Europe” then) and half the world
besides.
I have seen Russia, an im-
mense police State under the
Tsars, become a still more im-
mense police State under the
Soviets ; elevated td that posi-
tion, because (1) the West fought
its infant Revolution and (2) be-
cause Churchill and the second
Roosevelt let Stalin get away
with everything he wanted at
Yalta in 1945. I have seen the
startling transformation of
China, once the helpless prey
of all the Western nations, into
a great military Power—here
again because the West, if the
U.S.A. may be so designated,
backed one revolutionary faction
against another, thus, as in the
Russian case, as in that of the
French Revolution, rallying
all patriotic forces behind the
out-and-outers. I have seen the
flower of two generations perish
in wars, wars that not only
settled nothing but created other
and worse problems.
The only illusion I have left
is the White Australia policy. To
that policy we must cling even
if India demands its abandon-
ment as a condition of India’s
remaining within the British
Commonwealth, as India very
probably will. But its preserva-
tion will call for reforms and
sacrifices, among them the
abandonment of party spirit on
this issue and that of defence ;
and even then it is going to be
a perennial headache.


KEROSENE
TILLEY
reod.
PRESSURE
i
rv..
]amps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ SAFE SIMPLE— CANNOT SPILL
★ 12 LIGHTER HOURS BURNING ON
ONLY l£ PINTS OF KEROSENE
★ NO SMOKE —NO SMELL
★ WILL GIVE A LIFETIME OF SERVICE
★ 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pt y .) LTD.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal >
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUIXIVANr
nxm.
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sulliyan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson ft Ca.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
fnean OFFICE AND FACTORISE
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New Fork
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
YSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Rosehill next Saturday
horses engaged in the Epsom,
Metropolitan and Derby will
make their final appearance
before the opening of the
A.J.C, spring meeting at
Randwick the following Satur-
day. Epsom candidates figured
in the weights for Rose-
hill, and their performances will
be watched with interest. Last
spring Carioca won the Theo
Marks Handicap from Silver
Phantom and High Law, and a
week later at Randwick Silver
Phantom won the Epsom from
Tarien and Carioca. The latter
then won the Metropolitan: so
Rosehill form may be a sound
guide for Randwick.
• • •
The weight-for-age horses will
contest the popular Hill Stakes.
The race was a mile until 1941,
when the distance was increased
to 84- furlongs. Limerick, Peter
Pan, Gold Rod, Yaralla and
Hydrogen all won it twice. Jim
Pike won it eight times, on
horses of some renown —The
Hawk (twice), Winalot, Phar
Lap (twice), Chatham (twice)
and Peter Pan. Maurice McCar-
ten, as a jockey, won it four
times and N. Sellwood, who won
it on Vagabond in 1949, last
spring piloted Hydrogen (7/4)
home ahead of Tarien (11/8 on)
and Friendly Feeling (25/1).
Tarien is again engaged for this
Saturday, but at time of writing
Prince Cortauld looked the likely
winner.
Those who fancy New
Zealand stayer Master Proven
for the A.J.C. Metropolitan —
and he is one of the favorites —
probably know little of his form
before coming to Australia. It
includes half a dozen wins, some
in the best handicap company.
He hasn’t won beyond 14 miles,
but he finished fourth in the
Wellington Cup (2 miles) last
season. Last March he finished
second in the Wellington Presi-
dent’s Handicap with 7.12 (he has
8.0 in the Metrop.), winner
Takatu (8.9) travelling the 14
miles in 2.27|, a New Zealand
record. The record is equal to
Australia’s best time held by
Palfresco (1935) and Blue Ocean
(last February at Randwick).
Isaac of York (imp.), sire of
Master Proven, is a son of
famous Hyperion, while the
Rosehill Handicap winner’s dam.
Proven, is by Solicitor General
(imp.) from Lucinda by Martian.
Staying blood on both sides. His
yearling half-brother was sold at
the New Zealand sales last
January for 2000gns.
Heavy backing for New Zea-
lander Master Proven for the
A.J.C. Metropolitan immediately
preceded his Rosehill Handicap
success, and his stylish perform-
ance elevated his position in the
Metropolitan market to the
second line. He now shares
second favoritism with Lord For- :
rest to Gendarme. Advocate,!
Gallant Archer apd Lancaster
are the only others wanted by!
punters. The Epsom market is
unchanged. It is dominated by'
Prince Cortauld.
Weight-for-age favorites con-1
tinue to let supporters down at |
Melbourne meetings, and
Cromis’s name was added to the
list in the J. J. Feehan Stakes at
Caulfiejd. He finished second to
Rising Fast, second favorite, with
St, Joel third. Rising Fast’s
Caulfield Cup price was cut
sharply following his perform-
ance and he now is at brief odds,
though the Cup is not to be run
until October 16. Rising Fast is
to carry 8.10 in the mile and a
half, while he has one pound less
in the Melbourne Cup. The
opening day of the Caulfield Cup
meeting will clash with the final
(Metropolitan) day at Randwick.
There was less than l|sec. in
time recorded between the fastest
and the slowest of the Randwick
barrier trials for two-year-olds:
which gives the impression that
Sydney’s crop of young race-
horses are an even lot. Racing
will prove whether this is right
or wrong. Fastest display by a
filly was the 484 seconds recorded
by Sendiri, a 1400gns. yearling
which carries the colors of V. C.
Bath. New Slipper, Ultrablue,
Krubi and Queen Nilo were other
fillies which won their trials in
good style, while beaten fillies
which should show up well in
early races include Pelota,
Cotton, Fire Dancer and Fire
Scout.
Thirteen of the 15 winners at
the 1953 Randwick two-year-old
barrier trials later won races,
while several which shaped
moderately also figured on the
winning list. These pre-race
tests serve as an education for the
young gallopers. There is a
race-day atmosphere about the
tests, and perhaps the only dif-
ference so far as the gallops
oyer the half-mile course is con-
cerned is that any non-triers
cannot be carpeted by stewards:
although these officials are on
the spot, watch the running
closely, and no doubt make more
than a mental note of the per-
formances of the winners and
the losers. Biff, winner of one
of the trials last spring, later did
well in racing and landed four
Sydney events. Overspin ran
the fastest time but didn’t set
the turf on fire at his public
appearances. Lindbergh, on the
other hand, beaten into second
place in his heat, proved Syd-
ney’s best two-year-old, winning
four races, including the three
most important events for his
age-group.
The A.J.C. Epsom Handicap
favorite has been in the money
in recent years, if not in first
place. Last spring topweight
Carioca started at 5 to 4 and
finished third (winner Silver
Phantom). High Law was a win-
ning favorite in 1952, as was
De La Salle in 1948, Shannon
in 1945, and Synagogue in 1935.
Favorites which gained minor
places in the big mile in recent
years included Humming Top,
Buzmark, Columnist, and Shan-
non (1946). Last-named went to
the starting-post at 5 to 4 on
and probably was the “best thing
beaten” in an Epsom Handicap.
Supporters of the topweight in
the Epsom have had a lean time
since Chatham won with 9.10
in 1933. Only winning top-
weights since were High Caste
(1940) and Achilles (1950).
Despite many opinions to the
contrary, Rosehill Guineas
winner Pride of Egypt is
expected by connections to see
the A.J.C. Derby distance (14-
miles) out. In succession he has
won the Warwick Farm Hobart-
ville Stakes and the Canterbury
and the Rosehill Guineas.
Telyar, easily defeated by Pride
of Egypt at Rosehill, remains at
the top of the Derby wagering
with Melbourne colt Acramitis
and Prince Delville both pre-
ferred to Pride of Egypt. Derbies
are rarely won from end to end,
but maybe different tactics will
be adopted in the mile and a half.
Pride of Egypt is an easy horse
to ride and could be restrained
if necessary. The colt’s sire Nilo
(imp.) was a sprinter, as was his
dam. Civic Pride, but Nile’s sire
Nearco was unbeaten on the turf
and won staying races. Rosehill
running didn’t improve the
Derby prospects of Prince Del-
wood, who was beaten on his
merits. Telyar was a distant third
after being in a rearward posi-
tion to the straight. El Carretero
failed to stay. Most eyes will be
on Acramitis at Rosehill this
Saturday. If he wins well, or
makes it a Derby trial, the classic
will be more open than at
present.
Bill Cook has been riding in
races upwards of a quarter of a
century, and has won most races
on the Australian turf calendar.
His Rosehill Guineas success on
Pride of Egypt was his fourth in
that race, his other winners being
Aeolus (1939), Hall Stand (1942),
and Questing (1945).
Honeyflow is a consistent filly.
At Moonee Valley she had her
third success in four starts (in the
other she finished third to
Azarole at Caulfield) when she
won the Cumberland Mile.
Despite her consistency she
started at 20 to 1. Favorite King
Boru’s 9.6 troubled him on the
dead track. Honeyflow is by
Ottoman (imp.) out of Rose
Princess. Her dam is closely
related to Lucrative (£21,843), a
winner of the Victoria Derby and
the Sydney Cup. Honeyflow was
a 1500gns. yearling. She should
do well in races for three-year-
old fillies in the coming weeks.
Memories of Royal Chief, a
Dominion stayer who won the
1938 A.J.C. Metropolitan, were
revived at Moonee Valley when
one of his progeny, Royal Ascot,
won the Windarra Highweight.
He carried 9.9 on a holding track
and ran home an easy winner
from Winker and favorite Great
Saint. Royal Ascot had won in
Adelaide in June, so he has
travelled a bit.
* * *
At Sydney Cricket Ground
South Sydney won its fourth
Rugby League premiership in
five years by beating Newtown
23-15. Souths led throughout and
were never headed, but Newtown
was within cooee most of the
way, mainly through the excel-
lent boot of full-back Clifford.
Souths had most of the ball, and
were strong in attack. Newtown
was resolute in defence; other-
wise Souths would have been
over more often. Churchill
made at least three of his side’s
five tries. Early it looked as if
there might be too much of the
rough-stuff that’s marred this
year’s big League games; but
both sides decided to stick to
football.
♦ » *
The Rugby Union grand-
final at Sydney Showground
(won by University, 22-17) was
at least as good a game as has
been seen this season.
University was expected to
win because they had the inside
backs. St. George had the
wingers, but for best use to be
made of them St. George for-
wards would have to win a
majority of scrums, lineouts and
rucks, as well as upsetting the
inside backs opposite. Against a
solid, even pack of forwards and
steady backs this seemed un-
likely. As it happened, the
scrums were even. St. George
won the lineouts 20-11. But
University had the edge in the
rucks, and, heeling quickly from
one of these, short passes gave
the ball to Dowse, who scored a
vital try. And Tooth broke
through repeatedly. /
* *
In heavy conditions at the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, a
crowd of 50,985 saw Melbourne
beat Geelong in the preliminary-
final (10.7-7.8). Geelong was a
goal the better at half-time
(4.3-3.3), but Melbourne did
better when its big men began to
win more and more in the air.
It’s Melbourne and Footscray in
the grand-final next week.
Like Roy Wright, who won
the Brownlow Medal in 1952 as
well as this year, Sturt captain-
coach Len Fitzgerald, this year’s
winner of the Magarey Medal
(for the “best and fairest” in the
,S.A. Aussie Rules league com-
f petition), had previously won the
Magarey in 1952. Over by the
Swan veteran Perth follower
Merv Mclntosh, whom Wes-
tralians consider the best big
man in the game after Wright,
picked-up his third Sandover
Medal; he’d also won it last year
and in 1948.
♦ ♦ *
Heavyweight boxers have
always been the champion
crowd-drawers —none of the
lighter men have attracted any-
thing like the $2,685,660 gate for
the Tunney-Dempsey fight in
Chicago on September 22, 1927
—but, since the golden days of
Jackson and Slavin, Australia
hasn’t produced any very terrify-
ing big blokes by world stand-
ards. If such are knocking
around nowadays they are likely
to blush unseen behind outback
pubs, or in occasional skirmishes
on vacant allotments in the
suburbs, unless the stadiums
cater for them. Sydney Stadium
doesn’t bother, but Leichhardt is
encouraging the heavies. A week
after Fossi Schmidt (13.0) kayoed
a local Jack Dempsey (12.4) in
round two, light-heavyweights
Bruce Farthing (12.4) and Alf
Webb (12.3) topped the bill at
Leichhardt. Farthing belted
Webb all round the ring early
and forged ahead on points as
the fight continued. Accidental
butting opened a gash on Webb’s
left eyebrow in round four.
Referee Jack Burns had a look
at him at corners and made a
proper decision —to Farthing on
a tech. K.O.


M
A
i
Australian Paper Manufacturers limited
(;Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: Aikman Street, South Melbourne, Victoria
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield, Maryvale (Victoria) and
Botany (N.S.W.) and Petrie (Q’ld.) —under construction-
Some highlights from
19j4 ANNUAL REPORT
(For the 12 months ended 30th June, 1934)
OPERATIONS
Improved efficiency
Introduction of continuous working of plant 24 hours a day,
7 days a week
Introduction of work study and a bonus scheme
Good industrial relations
Augumented earnings for employees
Introduction of long service leave
Valuable research achievements.
These achievements have made possible:
PROFIT
RESERVES
SELLING PRICES
CONSTRUCTION
THE PRESENT
AND
FUTURE
On STOCKHOLDERS’ FUNDS amounting to £20,033,377
the NET PROFIT after Tax was £1,456,708
The addition to Reserves—including £95,000 over-provided
for Income Tax for 1953 —was £468,033
Substantial Price Reductions.
i
Resumption from our own funds of important works in
the expansion programme.
Current production and sales of papers and boards at an
annual rate of 197,000 tons.
Encouraging future prospects.
Tabulation for Comparison
Some key figures for the last five years arc:—


Traditional
BRITISH
Service
makes all the
difference, all the
way, on Speedbird
world routes.
B-OA-C takes good care of you
See your Travel Agent
for complete trip-
planning help—no
charge.
to all six Continents
Experience is the secret of 8.0.A.C.’s
world-famous high standard of service ..«
35 years of experience in caring for the
comfort of passengers, with courteous
attention and flying skill. Small wonder
that so many experienced travellers
recognise 8.0.A.C. as “the leader in
world air travel.” Fast, frequent services,
by fully-pressurized 4-engined airliners.
Liberal stop-over privileges. No tips: no extras.
Speedbird Services link Australia with
INDONESIA, MALAYA, BURMA, THAILAND,
HONG KONG, JAPAN, CEYLON. INDIA,
PAKISTAN, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA, EUROPE,
GREAT BRITAIN U.S.A., CANADA, CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA, BERMUDA.
\[MHi
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and Qantas
Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia)
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A46/AU
Australian Export
Prices
Touching on a point frequently
made by The Bulletin, London
“Financial Times” notes that
“although there is no need to
fear that the drain on Australia’s
overseas reserves will continue
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
m
tm
mm
m
■
ii
%*
—-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY KATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Rooms—
From 24/- P er night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
Sydney.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DECLINE AND FALL?
The above, in regard to the
British Empire, has been pro-
phesied often enough, and will
probably be prophesied for a
long time to come. It is a pro-
phecy that crops up with par-
ticular insistence on such sad
and complex occasions as the
British evacuation from Suez,
when Conservative critics
harried the British Government
like scorpions, giving the melan-
choly impression that Sir Win-
ston, who “did not become his
Majesty’s first Minister in order
to preside over the liquidation of
the British Empire,” was, by
inexorable movements of history,
being compelled to do just that.
That is only the impression
given, of course, but not all the
critics are Jeremiahs, and some
at least will bear hearing. Julian
Amery, for instance, lately
quoted here from London “Time
and Tide” on the Suez evacua-
tion, was not being pessimistic
for the fun of it. Nor could
that accusation be made against
John Connell, British author and
journalist, for the following
comments expressed in the same
publication, though not neces-
sarily representing its views.
Connell quotes Ammianus
Marcellinus from Gibbon;
“The greatness of Rome was
founded on the rare, and almost
incredible, alliance of virtue and
of fortune. In the strength and
ardor of youth she sustained the
storms of war; carried her vic-
torious arms beyond the seas and
the mountains; and brought
home triumphant laurels from
every country of the globe. At
length, verging towards old age,
and sometimes conquering by
the terror only of her name, she
sought the blessings of ease and
tranquillity.”
Those remarks, Connell notes,
are to be found at the begin-
ning of Gibbon’s account of
Alaric’s capture of Rome early
in the fifth century of the
Christian era:
“The year 410 was the deci-
sive year for the Western Em-
pire ; Britain, the British Com-
monwealth and Empire, may not
have reached the analogous
climax, but it is idle and wicked
to pretend that we are not now
near it.
“The details of the Anglo-
Egyptian Agreement on the
Suez Canal Zone; the minutice
of the ludicrous and humiliat-
ing decrees that haye been im-
posed on Cyprus ; the treachery
of Nuri es Said; and the moral
and mental somersaults of Mr.
Nehru—these are almost trivial
and unimportant beside the cen-
tral fact of British withdrawal
and decline, the fact that we
lack nowadays the will, as we
lack the capacity, to lead.
“Anger and bitterness are as
irrelevant in this issue as are
chirrups of complacent applause.
But I am appalled that so few
in this country [Britain] have
any comprehension of the tragic
significance of what has hap-
pened and is happening. A
sense of tragedy need not inhibit
any ‘practical’ recognition of the
inevitable; it might perhaps
dignify it and cleanse it a little.
“I admit that'” what has hap-
pened is inevitable ; I do not be-
lieve that it is right. The col-
lapse of the British Empire is a
catastrophe of the first magni-
tude in history. It is part of the
general process of disintegration
and ruin that is encompassing
Western Christian civilisation.
One disaster is inseparable from
the other. The British Empire
was not Western civilisation;
but for 150 years it supplied the
moral and practical framework
which sustained that civilisation.
—London “News Chronicle"
MILKING THE SACRED COW
(An example of the current work of Arthur Horner, one of the
latest of a succession of Bulletin artists who have made their mark
in London.)
Britain’s part in two world
wars | n this century has demon-
strated, at terrible cost, how
complete and how complex was
this involvement.
“The chief cause of the col-
lapse is not external but in-
ternal. The Indian Congress
movement, the Muslim League,
Arab irredentism, Sudanese
nationalism, Egyptian xeno-
phobia, Zionism—none of these
need have prevailed, in the way
in which they have all prevailed,
had British resolution and the
will to leadership not ebbed
away. We have indeed ‘sought
the blessings of ease and tran-
quillity’—translated into con-
temporary terms of the Welfare
State, round-the-clock television,
the football pools and no Satur-
day loading of ships—but, as
was inevitable, we have not been
granted, and we shall not be
granted, ease and tranquillity.
“A decline such as ours is not
to be accomplished painlessly ;
we shall be harried and humili-
ated to the end of the chapter.
The rare, the almost incredible
alliance of virtue and of fortune
that took us, like the Romans,
beyond the seas and the moun-
tains, is now irreparably broken.
The virtue has gone; and the
fortune has deserted us.
■ “The British Empire was a
a noble political enterprise, prob-
ably the noblest that history can
record. Moral contradictions
within it—and their restless ex-
ploitation by intellects that were
both anchorless and frivolous—-
have sapped its strength. Those
whose faith, patriotism and sense
of responsibility had been
destroyed or thwarted taught
others —a whole generation—
their own cynicism and levity.
“It was in the year 403 that
Stilicho recalled the armies of
Rome from the most remote
regions of the West, including
the troops stationed along the
wall which guarded Britain from
the Caledonians. His purpose—
a thoroughly proper military
purpose, such as any prudent
general with his eye on political
realities would be bound to pur-
sue —was to build up a strategic
reserve, to defend the Emperor
and metropolitan Italy against
a fast-developing and very
serious threat,
“Seven years later, in 410,
Stilicho was dead, his name exe-
crated by those whom he had
striven to save; the Emperor
was a captive ; and on August
24 of that year (in Gibbon’s
words): ‘At the hour of mid-
night the Salarian gate was
silently opened and the inhabi-
tants were awakened by the tre-
mendous sound of the Gothic
trumpet. Eleven hundred and
sixty-three years after the foun-
dation of Rome, the Imperial
City, which had subdued and
civilised so considerable a part
of mankind, was delivered to the
licentious fury of the tribes of
Germany and Scythia.’
“Back come " the legions,”
Connell continues, “they can
be deployed much more quickly
and efficiently if they are
based here in Britain—so runs
the argument of a 20th-century
Stilicho. And why should
our many-headed, democratic
Honorius question this military
sagacity and prudence? After
all, it’s ever so nice for Mum
to have her boys home again,
back from that nasty desert. All
the same, one night or the other
night, the Salarian gate will be
opened and for us too the
tremendous trumpet will sound.”
Commenting along somewhat
the same lines as Connell, Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph” makes
the editorial observation that “It
is astonishing to note, amid all
the numberless historians who
have chronicled the decline of
the Roman Empire, how few
have attached due importanpe to
the crippling burden of taxa-
tion which weighed upon its
citizens”;
“Should the British Empire go
the way of the Roman, it is
probable that historians will
make the same miscalculation.
Yet the writing is on the wall;
and economist Colin Clark has
done as much as anyone to put
it there. In Great Britain taxa-
tion exceeds 40 per cent, of the
national income. Mr. Clark’s
basic contention is that it can-
not exceed 25 per cent, without
progressive impoverishment and
inflation.
“In the first place, it is impos-
sible to believe that high taxation
has little effect on effort and
enterprise, hard as it may be to
put one’s finger on any particular
person who has been deterred
by taxation from doing any par-
ticular thing. By eating into
profits it discourages capital
expenditure. By reducing the
amount of capital in private
hands it reduces the opportunities
for new concerns and new pro-
cesses.
“By diminishing the rewards
of independent enterprise it tends
to drive the best of our youth
out of the country and the worst
into an ignoble dependence on
the State. By putting certain
goods or services out of people’s
reach it makes people say,
‘What is the use of trying?
Leisure is more worth while.’
By penalising honesty it encour-
ages evasion or worse.
“Perhaps the most evil of its
effects are the least tangible. By
robbing people of the power to
be independent, overtaxation will
end by robbing them of all desire
to be independent. By making
it impossible to save, and by tak-
ing on a man’s death a large part
of any savings which he may
nonetheless have amassed, over-
taxation strikes precisely at that
continuity of family life and at
that middle-class outlook which
have done so much to make our
country great.”


What About Senator
McCarthy's Methods?
“I approve of Senator McCarthy’s
objectives, but I strongly disapprove
of his methods, which are similar to
those of the Communists.” This
type of statement is now being used
to help smear American anti-Com-
munist leader, Senator J. McCarthy.
But those in doubt about McCarthy’s
methods should read the current
issue of the League of Rights’
monthly INTELLIGENCE SURVEY,
which contains actual extracts from
the official records of Senator Mc-
Carthy’s interrogation of a typical
witness strongly suspected of being
a Communist. A comparison is made
between McCarthy’s methods and
those used by the Communists
during the examination of American
prisoners of war in Korea.
THE INTELLIGENCE SURVEY
also provides other factual reports
and comment essential for all
Christian patriots.
Single issues of THE INTELLI-
GENCE SURVEY, 4/-, post free.
Annual subscription, £2/2/-, post
free. Order from —
The Victorian League of Rights
( Non-party, non-sectarian )
3438 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DAVID WILLIAM CBRUTI formerly
of Eastern Road Booker Bay.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE AUSTRALIA
CERUTI has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1863 of 1954 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 7th day of
January 1955 and obtain a copy of the
DIGNAM
Street,
Acting Registrar.
Petition without charge from C. P.
TUP XT A TUT
Patent Pending.
From field to stack in
one smooth operation!
with the new
śdf
LOADER/STACKER
It's only a few minutes work to couple up
the loader/stacker to your truck or trailer
tray. The guides of the loader being near
the driver's window make it a simple
matter to steer right up to the bale for
clean, fast pick-up at 5 or 6 miles per hour
. . . bales don't have to be exactly head-on,
you can guide them in from any angle.
€
MIDDLE (FIG. 1)
#
IN BETWEEN
cfig: 3*
FRONT EDGE (FIG. 2)
wm
mmSm
>> '
< .-.MMin ‘
1 ' fi
t mm
mm
mam
■ -
2*22
There's no delay once the truck is fully loaded. Just
carry right on to the stack site without even stopping.
Once there just switch the Mobilco Loader/Stacker into
reverse and off it goes lifting the bales to the stack, the
pivoted elevator allows you to unload at right angles to
the truck into the centre of the stack (Fig. 1) ... to the
front edge of the stack (Fig. 2) ... or any intermediate
position (Fig. 3), thus saving man effort in carrying bales
to different positions on the stack. Yes, it's one smooth
continuous time and money-saving operation with a
Mobilco yours for cash or on terms. Post the coupon
for colour folder and fuller details.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT LIMITED
4 7 SOOTH PARADE, CAMPSIE pH ONE: IF 4209
TELEGRAMS MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE - - 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA
PHONE - -- -- -- -- -- -- - WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
TASMANIA: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
(Post it today)
Send me today full particulars of your
Mobilco Loader/Stacker.
Name
Address
for much longer at the pace it has
attained in recent weeks, there is
one development which must be
taken into account on the other
side”:
“This is the increasing resist-
ance to the country’s exports on
price grounds. Now that the
more popular ‘hard’ wheat is
available at reduced prices, many
former customers of Australia
are no longer willing to purchase
her ‘soft’ wheat at the price at
which it is being offered.
“And the recent decision of
shippers to cut transport costs
for Australian goods to enable
producers in that country to over-
come marketing ■ difficulties
abroad shows that wheat is not
the only Australian export that
is now tending to look too dear
in relation to the comparable
products of other countries.
“It would seem, therefore, that
the tendency for Australian costs
to rise at a faster pace than costs
in other countries is at last begin-
ning to do what economists have
feared it might do —adversely
affect the country’s export effort.
“It is to be hoped that
remedial action can be taken in
time by the Australian Govern-
ment and Australian industry.
Australia is currently absorbing
about a tenth of Britain’s total
exports. Any reversal of the
import relaxations which the
Commonwealth Government has
been making over the past year
or two could not fail to have
sharp repercussions on producers
in Britain.”
Japanese Problems
Typical overseas press com-
ment on problems yet to be
answered concerning 85,000,000
people:
“New York Times ” .* “The
trouble is a rapidly deteriorating
economic situation which might
impair Japan’s position as an
anti-Communist bastion.
“The danger was pointed up
by President Eisenhower when
he declared that Japan is the key
to the defence of the Pacific,
and that Communist domination
of Japan with its large industrial
resources would convert the
Pacific into a Communist lake.
The President likewise alluded to
the fundamental problem of
Japanese existence when he
pointed out that 85,000,000
people are crowded together in
a mountainous land no larger
than California.
“To this might be added that
Japan is still suffering from the
ravages of the war, that she has
lost an empire which helped to
support that population in the
past, that her industrial plant is
obsolescent and therefore a high-
cost producer despite low wages,
and that her trade and fishery
still suffer from the war’s after-
effects.
“That situation was disguised
by large-scale American aid after
the war, by the Korean war
boom and by large American
military expenditures. But
American aid has ceased, the
Korean war boom is over, and
American military expenditures
are shrinking as American troops
begin to withdraw from the
islands. The result is a steadily
increasing trade deficit, dwind-
ling financial reserves, growing
unemployment and political un-
rest. On top of that Japan is now
supposed to rearm for her own
defence to permit the withdrawal
of all American forces.”
*“*■ * *
Richmond [ U.S.A. ] “Times -
Dispatch”: “When there were
considerably fewer millions of
Japanese in their islands than
are there today, and when the
Japanese were trading freely
throughout the world, they
nevertheless exploded in a ram-
paging effort to conquer South-
East Asia, and they got most of
it, before they were beaten. To-
day they are shut out of their
two nearest and biggest markets,
Russia and China, but are
apparently expected somehow to
surmount this seemingly insur-
mountable obstacle, and to build
a peaceful and prosperous
nation.
“The solution is not easy.
On the one hand, the policy of
the United States is to strengthen
Japan as the bulwark against
Communism in the Far East. On
the other, America seems deter-
mined not to let Soviet Russia
and Red China trade with this
great industrial nation, lest they
build up their own war
machines.
“Japan’s population is grow-
ing by something like 1,500,000
a year, and the country is already
badly overcrowded. How can
the people of these teeming
islands be made self-supporting
if they can’t sell the. products of
their labor?”
♦ * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “It
is pretty certain that in the long
run Japan cannot be excluded
from world markets. A country
of her size cannot be held down,
especially since her economy is
so narrowly based that she must
export to keep her growing
population alive. We [Britain]
shall get no support from, for
example, the United States in
an attempt to exclude Japan, and
all political opinion is that a
stable Japan is a necessity for
the free world in Asia.”
The same : “Is it an earnest of
the future that at the recent
international whaling conference
Japan and Russia have consis-
tently voted together against the
other participants? The issue
was the imposing of a ban on
the catching of blue and hump-
backed whales in the Northern
Hemisphere. But, as Hamlet
demonstrated to Polonius, a
whale very easily leads on to
other things.”
* s «
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“Disturbing memories are
evoked by the Japanese Govern-
ment’s announcement of its in-
tention to sponsor huge trading
combines to advance Japan’s in-
terest in world, trade.
“The Japanese may argue that
it is possible to revive the form
of the integrated combine with-
out all of the old methods and
objectives. The possibility must
be acknowledged. In the present
precarious state of the Japanese
economy there is some sense in
an effort to weed out inefficient
firms, concentrate resources in
those whose equipment is
modem and whose products can
sell well abroad, and use the
maximum available bargaining
power to obtain foreign supplies
and dispose of home output.
“The danger is that such
policies can stultify useful com-
petition and the domestic de-
velopment that goes with it,
while it can invite the reaction
of cartelisation in other coun-
tries. Politics and militarism
aside, an increase in international
cartelism is inconsistent with the
expansion of world trade. Japan
will have to strike a nice balance
between insufficient mobilisation
of her economic resources and a
return to predatory competition
if the present experiment is to
do more good than harm.’*


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
National Pride
What a contrast exists between the
overflowing belief and faith of Americans
in America and its destiny and the luke-
warm evidence of national pride among
Australians. The Americans leave noth-
ing to chance. They start with the child
and they are not content until they have
made him or her “110 per cent. Ameri-
can.” They know their American history.
The Stars and Stripes flies proudly over
every school, institution and many fac-
tories. The factory-worker has it
brought home to him every day that he
is working not for himself alone or the
boss, but for the American nation.
The impressive and beautiful monu-
ments at the national capital, Washington,
are visited by pilgrims from all over
America. Great newspapers and maga-
zines organise “I am an American” days,
when tens of thousands come together in
scenes of emotion and enthusiasm.
The American is proud of his country’s
achievements and the American way of
life, and, being proud, he is vigilant. He
has instilled into him a strong sense of
national destiny, and from that sense
spring the vigor and confidence and
aspiration so evident in the United States
today.
I am not suggesting that Australia
should slavishly follow or copy the
American way of life. We can develop
our own ways of promoting our national
sense. But it is imperative that we take
measures to foster our spirit of national
love and pride. When we all have this
pride, this mystical love of country, this
sense of our destiny, we will be much
less inclined to push our own particular
barrows at the expense of the real
interests of our nation.
The vicious and silly policy—and prac-
tice —of “my party, right or wrong,”
must be abandoned, and inter-State
jealousies, and the evil spirit of bad-will
towards those who, through their own
efforts, rise to eminence must be done
away with if ever we are to find a great
national destiny.—F. X. O. (Vic.).
Exchange
“Hist” (B. 18/8/’54) is rather out of
date when he states that “No city agent
or broker thinks of adding it [exchange]
to his cheques in payment for country
products sent willy-nilly to our centra-
lised city markets.”
A good many city agents have opened
accounts at several country centres. In
'Radio-aerial, sergeant .”
this way farmers receive payment for
their produce by cheques on their local
banks. So the matter of exchange doesn’t
enter into the transaction at all. —
Hortus (N.S.W.),
TV and Reading
Can’t agree with “Maros” (B. 18/8/ 54)
that TV will put an end to reading. A
recent U.S. report claims that TV actu-
ally encourages reading.
Since the introduction of TV in the
U.S., library-circulations have increased.
Librarians attribute this upsurge to the
influence of TV, which has stimulated
interest, among children in particular,
in such things as ballet, world affairs and
natural history.
Also once a TV-owning family realises
that the set can be switched-off, the
usual first phases of slavery and then
satiation are followed by a return to
normal reading and other intellectual
nourishment. j
A matter bearing some comparison
with this TV-reading problem is, I think,
that of the introduction of machinery
to industry. Every mechanical invention
since the Industrial Revolution has been
opposed by the workers in the industry
concerned on the score that it would
throw large numbers out of work —the
argument is still used in this day, as with
the till-recent resistance by the miners to
the mechanical extraction of pillar-coal.
Yet in actual fact machines have never
produced permanent unemployment at
all. They’ve made certain crafts and jobs
obsolete, but, in doing so, they’ve created
other jobs. So today, in a machine-age,
we have full employment—plenty of jobs
still to be done, more jobs than men to
fill them.
In like fashion TV will develop interest
in learning and the arts, not destroy
them. — Keima (Q.).
»
Freight Costs
The cost of freight is high today, but
handling charges account for much of
it. It costs about as much to get goods
across 260 miles of Bass Strait as it does
to get them from Melbourne to Lautoka
(Fiji), a distance of 2300 miles.
We lately had a small case of personal,
used belongings (no Customs to be paid)
across from Sydney. It occupied four
cubic feet and the cost to us was £F4 3s.
Of that, the freight was 14s. 6d. (Aus-
tralian).
Sundry Australian charges which
made the figure so high were: cartage to
wharf 10s. 6d., agency attendance £1 Is.,
export entry 7s. 6d., bill lading 3s. 6d.,
postage Is., and “com.” ss. In Fiji the
charges were: duty and wharfage 3d.,
labor, shipping and cartage 35., labor
attending and examining 155., and Cus-
toms entries and attendance Bs.—M. T.
Pezet (Fiji).
Joining a Bank
In this age of full employment, the
banks like other employers, are not find-
ing it quite so easy as of old to get recruits
for the service. Some, in an effort to
obtain suitable youths, have published
booklets which set out the importance
of the work, opportunities for advance-
ment, working conditions and com-
panions, remuneration and security of
employment. To lads 18 years of age,
holding the Leaving Certificate, a com-
mencing salary of £440 a year is offered.
Without that certificate the remuneration
is £4lO. After 17 years of service, or
at the age of 33, a salary under the
general scale of £lOl5 is payable.
I can’t help comparing the present
inducements with those offered when I
joined a bank over 46 years ago. First
of all, there was usually a scramble to
get in—jobs were not so easy to get in
those days. It was all the other way.
When a vacancy for a “junior”
occurred there were always plenty of
applicants from boys leaving school. The
standard of education required was the
Merit Certificate, a document which certi-
fied that the boy was completely full of
knowledge so far as* the Education De-
partment was concerned. Armed with
this, four references (one from a clergy-
man) and a bondsman for £5OO, one inter-
viewed the manager of the branch.
In my case the likely aspirants .had
been narrowed down to two, and I was
the lucky winner. The other boy joined
a chemist’s shop, washing bottles, and
is now the proprietor of a chain of shops
and worth a lot of money, so perhaps I
was not so lucky after all.
The commencing salary was £4O a
“Now, if you Won the lottery or something things would be different."
year, paid in sovereigns at the end of
the month, and I was told that if my con-
duct was in all ways satisfactory I could
expect to reach £6O a year after three
years. 1 was also bound not to engage
in matrimony until my emoluments
(blessed word) reached the figure of £2OO.
Marriage before reaching that stage of
affluence was supposed to be fraught with
great temptation to “tickle the peter.”
Of course, should one happen to marry
a lady of fortune before achieving the
£2OO the matter was more tolerantly
regarded. It was surprising how many
bank clerks did just that —the procedure
evidently was to look at Dad’s balance in
the ledger and then choose the lady
accordingly.
Upon receiving notice of appointment
to the bank the drill was then to buy a
suit of long-’uns (£3 3s. and an extra
pair of strides thrown in) and a straw-
decker hat (7s. 6d, English-made), The
course was then set fair right to the
general-manager’s chair.
The great inducement was the pension
payable at 60 years of age,
but there was no mention of
what inflation might do to
that in the meantime. There
was plenty of night work and
overtime with no extra pay-
ment, no long-service gratu-
ity, no medical and health
benefits, no reimbursement of
educational expenses, and
nothing for managers in the
way of entertainment allow-
ance or car (horse-and-buggy)
allowance.
Still, the life had its compensations—
although there’s a lot to be said for wash-
ing bottles in a chemist’s shop.— Ceg
(Vic.).
Atomic Realities
The Eisenhower plan for international
control of atomic energy seems to have
been shelved. In December, 1953, when
addressing the United Nations General
Assembly, the U.S. President outlined a
plan which he declared would:
First, encourage world-wide investigation
into the most effective peace-time use of
fissionable material; and with the certainty
that they had all the material needed for
the conduct of all experiments which were
appropriate.
Second, begin to diminish the potential
destructive power of the world’s atomic
stockpiles*
Third, allow all peoples of all nations to
see that in this enlightened age the Great
Powers of the earth, both of the East and
of the West, are interested in human aspira-
tions first rather than in building up the
armaments of war.
Fourth, open up a new channel for peace-
ful discussion and initiate at least a, new
approach.
President Eisenhower offered to sub-
mit his proposals “to the Congress of
the United States and with every expec-
tation of approval,” but the Soviet Union,
which, as the President said, was “prin-
cipally involved,” gave the Eisenhower
plan the cold shoulder. The Soviet’s
reaction was of course typical.
When the Baruch Plan was sponsored
by the United Kingdom, the U.S. and
Canada in 1945, prescribing international
inspection and control of atomic
weapons (not subject to the veto), the
Soviet Union responded by proposing
first a convention for the prohibition of
atomic weapons, followed by a system
of control (subject to the veto). It is
not hard to see that effective international
control of atomic weapons could never
be achieved without the power of
inspection.
It is one thing to be captivated by the
ideal that atomic warfare should be
banned, but it is another thing to imple-
ment the ideal. The harsh reality of our
time is that the threat of warfare in any
form will never disappear unless good-
will and trust and honesty of purpose are
displayed by every major Power. The
Soviet Union has produced precious
little evidence that it has much affection
for those ingredients of world peace.
The Soviet’s obdurance during the Berlin
blockade, its predation in the Balkans
and aggression in Korea, and its existing
foreign-policy could hardly be described
as being characteristic of a peace-loving
nation.
Precisely how difficult it would be to
establish effective international control of
atomic weapons is brought boldly into
relief by the history of Anglo-American
relations on the subject. In 1943 Sir
Winston Churchill and President Roose-
velt, on behalf of their countries, signed
the Quebec Agreement, which provided,
among other things: (1) That they would
never use the atom-bomb against each
other, (2) that they would not use it
against third parties without each other’s
consent, and (3) that neither would com-
municate any information to third parties
except by mutual consent.
The McMahon Act, passed by the
American Congress in 1946, washed out
the main provisions of the Quebec Agree-
ment save that Great Britain still retained
the veto on the use of the atom-bomb.
What steps the Attlee Government took
to persuade America to stand by the
Quebec Agreement is not known. What
is known is the fact that leading mem-
bers of the Congress Committee who
drafted the McMahon Act were com-
pletely unaware of the nature of the
Quebec Agreement. Then in 1948 the
Attlee Government entered into a new
agreement with the United States which
took away from Great Britain the veto
on the bomb’s use. Sir Winston
Churchill, when replying to criticism by
Labor back-benchers on U.S. atom- and
hydrogen-bomb tests in the Pacific earlier
this year, referred to Great Britain’s loss
of the veto. He offered to approach the
United States about publishing the full
text of the 1948 agreement if Mr. Attlee
approved. But Mr. Attlee remained
silent on Sir Winston’s offer.
Certainly relationships between the
United Kingdom and the United States
concerning atomic affairs are becoming
more harmonious, but the dealings be-
tween these two great English-speaking
nations during the last ten years clearly
demonstrate the need for complete
frankness in all atom-bomb affairs,
D. J. K. (Q.).


Fast Flights to
NORTH AMERICA
■■ “• ••
Hmwui
Canadian Pacific . . .
only airline providing
• Super DC-6B Service
• Non-stop service Fiji-Hawaii
• 18} hours' stopover, famous
Waikiki Beach luxury hotel*
VANCOUVER
HAWAI
X!
AUCKLAND
U:
SYDNEY
m
Your choice of luxury
class with 70° reclining chairs,
gourmet meals ... or economy
(princess* service.
* TOURIST
Apply Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents for
l Canadian Pacific) or your locsi travel agent.
r
fin MS4isilstM (Pcusiiic
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIRLINES LIMITED, INC. IN CANADA
FASTEST TO 4 CONTINENTS: 65 COMMUNITIES IN CANADA
“Since we bought THE WORLD’S
FINEST COOKER we have a
WONDERFOL HOT WATER SUPPLY!”
\
THIS IS AN
MODEL CB
AGA
COOKER..
Regd. Trade Mark
* TgK.
a 3*ln sf , N yg A .
i *'oa£ x '’’a/p.
"’an.i. e/ »«4
r «Aj
*
* «
r "/V/
'<•»*/
The correct grade
of coke now in
ample soppty.
“It not only cooks the most delicious
meals effortlessly, but it supplies all the
hot water we require ... direct to oor
kitchen, laundry and bathroom.”
“And that’s not all! Its fuel consumption
is incredibly low ... in fact, it’s guaran-
teed never to exceed 5 tons of coke per
year.
“Our AGA has two hot-plates and two
ovens, one oven for roasting and baking,
ami the other for simmering. It can cook
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established h New Zealand in 1841)
Sole Austral'ron Agents tof
AGA Cooker and Bendix Home Washer
a meal quite by itself, and creates no
fumes, smoke or soot.
“Believe it or not, AGA even helps to
‘air-condition' our kitchen.”
“There were no extras when we purchased
our AGA. Levin & Co.’s expert installed
and demonstrated the cooker. They also
supplied a wonderful set of utensils and
all the flue materials, which were in-
cluded in the price. AGA to me has been
a wonderful investment.”
POST TO-DAY FOR A FREE LEAFLET
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _ _ _ 432 Bourke 'Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Sts., Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ __ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS; MALLOCH BROS. LTD., Perth
SB
xr-3
Government Spending Spree
The Commonwealth Auditor-General’s
criticism of lavish and unnecessary expen-
diture by Government departments will
leave politicians’ withers unwrung unless
it is taken up by the public, or at least
that diminishing section of it that isn’t in
Government employ.
The present Commonwealth Govern-
ment was elected on a policy of rescuing
free enterprise from the Socialists and
reducing the bureaucracy built up by
“Labor.”
It has not done so. The Socialistic
Commonwealth Employment Service still
flourishes; the Commonwealth Office of
Education, also a “Labor” creation, keeps
its quota of highly paid officials in cushy
jobs.
At the same time nearly all depart-
ments have grown rather than diminished,
and the Commonwealth’-s wages-bill last
year was a record. It had increased by
more than £8 million on the previous
year.
The Auditor-General’s annual homily
to the Government on the unsatisfactory
nature of the accounting in departments
seems to fall on deaf political ears,
while Professor Bland’s committee,
formed to deal with the growth of
bureaucracy, seems to have been as effec-
tive as a cardboard dam in a flooded
river.
It is apparently a feature of Australian
Governments of all parties to cling to
every facet of power and conveniently
forget the criticisms they themselves
levelled while in Opposition.
In Britain, however, the Conservative
Government has been more sincere in its
approach. Since resuming office it has
steadfastly gone on with the job of rid-
ding the country of the weeds that grew
during the Socialist regime, and almost
all issues of the Conservative journal,
“Tory Opinion,” contains lists of staff
economies, operational economies and
vacated buildings turned over to the
business world.
That was what the present Common-
wealth Government promised to do
during the 1949 election campaign, and,
subsequent defence commitments taken
into account, what it has failed to do.
The inevitable reckoning will come,
perhaps at a less buoyant stage of our
economy, when the productive section of
the community will no longer be able to
carry the weight of our enormous
bureaucracy.
Would it not be better for sensible
adjustment to be made now while industry
is in a position to absorb the veritable
legion of unnecessary public servants?
It is the most important internal prob-
lem Australia has today. With it is bound
up the future of a labor-starved free
enterprise that is being taxed to the hilt
to keep an unproductive army of bureau-
crats. — Inall (N.S.W.),
Academic Aborigines
The Colombo Plan has worked well in
Australian universities, and only this week
an Indian received the first Master of
Engineering degree at the University of
“Gad! You're slipping. Feathers. ’ Twas Papa who drank.”
Melbourne under the plan. Everything
has been done to help the students —
assistance far beyond their academic
training right into their social lives so
that they can get to know more and more
about Australians.
But why should this training, excellent
as it has been, be confined to students
from Asian countries when many of our
own natives could, with a little encourage-
mept in their early life, be admitted to
academic institutions?
Instead of a lead coming from the
Government it looks as though it will
come from Australian students, probably
by 1956. Students throughout Australia
hope to raise sufficient funds to enable
the first aborigine in Australian history
to begin a full-time course at an Aus-
tralian university in 1956. Already the
students have £lOOO in the National
Union of Australian University Students’
Aboriginal Scholarship Appeal, and they
are now on the backs of the Federal
Government to help finance the fund and
make it permanent.
This is not a wild-cat scheme by a group
of students seeking publicity. They’ve
backed up their case with a report from
the University of Melbourne Psychology
Department, showing that an aborigine
reaching matriculation standard is able to
compete favorably with the average
student.
The work of the students deserves
encouragement. They believe that if it
can be shown that the young Australian
aborigine can use a university education
the community will see the need for
overall reform of aboriginal education
throughout the country. Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
Australian Youth
Speaking of the present 16-25 age-
group a New York judge remarked
recently: “It’s too late to save this
generation, but there’s still time to save
the next.” Because equally gloomy views
are occasionally expressed in Australia
it might be wise to consider how justly
they are made. If they are true we should
start remedying the position immediately,
but if they are untrue we should explode
this misconception as soon as possible.
My qualifications for speaking are
few. I’m a third-year law student and
a member of the age-group under dis-
cussion. I mix with an exceptionally
wide circle of young people both at the
university and outside it, and it is my firm
belief that the present generation of Aus-
tralian youth, with proper guidance and
encouragement, will achieve wonders.
It is unfortunate that abnormal be-
havior is invariably given undue pub-
licity ; never before has the news-system
of the world been so well organised to
bring juvenile delinquency before the
attention of the public. To think, how-
ever, that the young people involved in
these crimes are representative of their
generation is as illogical as the belief
that all unionists are inclined to Com-
munism.
The standard of morality among our
young people is high in relation to the
rest of the community. Undoubtedly the
largest and most influential societies at
Melbourne University are the three
religious societies. More important than
this, but impossible to evaluate, is the
willingness of young people of all
classes to discuss frankly and sincerely
problems in the religious, philosophical
and political spheres.
The New York judge suggested the
introduction of two subjects to the school
course —marital relations and parental
responsibility. To these might be added
political philosophy. Even more important
are example and encouragement. It is
unfortunate that the organisations show-
ing most interest in our young people are
Communist; it is fortunate that they
are not being very successful. — MacD.
(Vic.).


See Cameron at Sutherlands’ Farmers’ Boy Display
at Launceston Boyal Show.
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Plough attached.
“FAKMEES’ BOY” Series 11, Mark XII, li h.p. Villiers
Engine. Standard Equipment; 3 Cultivating teeth, 3
Hoeing blades, lOin. Tool-bar, 3 universal standards,
and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit
for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe
Paspalum
guillotined !
Rotary Hoe
BsS
Sawbench
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney. BW 4261.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St. Melbourne. MU 8551.
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
Tasmania: CAMERON & SUTHERLAND Ltd., 115 York: St., Launceston.
Launceston 2645; and 167 Murray St., Hobart. B 2264.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.,
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Lawnmowef
\> s *.
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include. .
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR ftr
tyres, Spray-painting, etc.
TRAILER, DUSTER. DISC HAE R °ftS,
GENERATOR for hole-boring, lighting, etc.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest {state
Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMER
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
Name
Address
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TECHNICAL UREA
PROFESSOR MESSEL, in his
article “Atoms and Agricul-
ture” (B. 8/9/’54), mentions the
use of urea in America as a
supplementary source of nitro-
gen for cattle. This is known
as “technical urea”; some
further information on its uses
may be of interest.
Technical urea is a fine, white,
crystalline substance containing
46 per cent, nitrogen. In Aus-
tralia it has recently come into
prominence as a nitrogenous
fertiliser applied as a foliar
spray.
In the plastics field urea is
used as a basic chemical, and
when mixed with formaldehyde
gives rise to urea-formaldehyde,
which is used for manufacturing
moulding-powders, resins and
adhesives such as are used in the
glue-line of plywoods. In the
textile industry urea is used as a
stiffener in materials like
gaberdine,
As a rich source of nitrogen,
urea is used for feeding rumi-
nants able to synthesise this
nitrogen into animal-protein. It
is used as a cheap source of
nitrogen when other protein-
supplements, such as meat-meal,
dried milk-powder, etc., are in
short supply. Animals fed on a
ration supplemented by urea
would do as well as animals fed
on a low-grade protein diet, and
do considerably better than
those fed on a protein-deficient
ration. It is used mainly in
feeding dairy-cattle and in the
drought-feedirtg of sheep. When
feeding urea in this way, not
more than 3 per cent, by weight
of urea should be fed in any
ration, and thfc should be
thoroughly mixed with the in-
gredients. It is also desirable
that there should be not more
than one-third of urea in pro-
portion to other available
protein in the ration.
Urea has been found to have
bactericidal action, and has a
stimulating effect on the healing
of wounds and ulcers ; for this
purpose it is generally combined
with one of the sulphonamides
as a dusting-powder or ointment,
More recently, urea has been
used in agriculture as a fertiliser,
It can be used as a soil-dressing
in the same way as sulphate-of-
ammonia, but since it contains
46 per cent, nitrogen, as against
the 21 per cent, in sulphate-of-
ammonia, it is only necessary to
apply about three-sevenths of
the amount. This means that
less bags are handled and fewer
stops made to refill machines.
Although urea dissolves
readily in water, it resists leach-
ing when applied to the soil. It
first goes through a series of
reactions which bind it to the
soil-particles, the nitrogen be-
coming available later in the
ammonium and nitrate form at
the ideal rate for absorption by
plants. This means that nitro-
gen losses by leaching are small,
even in sandy irrigated soils,
It leaves no harmful residues
in the soil and does not interfere
with the uptake of other plant-
foods, such as phosphorus,
potash, etc. It does not make
soils acid as sulphate-of-
ammonia, for instance, §ome-
times does; therefore, it can,be
used on acid soils, or on soils
which tend to become acid,
* There has been recent interest
in the use of urea as a foliage-
spray fertiliser, and, in America
particularly, a good deal of work
has been done on this applica-
tion. Apple-trees, for instance,
can absorb their nitrogen re-
quirements through the leaves
from sprays containing urea, the
nitrogen being absorbed by the
leaves within a few hours,
To get maximum effects from
the sprays it is important to
thoroughly wet the foliage, par-
ticularly under - surfaces of
leaves. Some fruit-trees respond
more readily than others,
apparently because of the nature
of their leaf-surfaces,
The advantage in the use of
urea-sprays seems to be that
from a given amount of nitrogen
applied to the tree a temporary
higher nitrogen-level of leaves
and floral parts can be obtained
at the desired time from a leaf-
spray, as compared with appli-
cation of nitrogen to the soil,
This temporary lift in the nitro-
gen-level at blossoming tends to
increase the protein-content of
pollen-grains and the fertility of
the ovule, resulting in heavier
setting of fruit,
In the young fruit more cells
are formed, so that at a later
stage a greater number of cells
are present, and when these fill
out at maturity fruit is larger,
For this reason, with apples, the
aim is to get three or four quick
sprays on to the trees early in
the growing season. The trees’
nitrogen - supply gradually
diminishes later in the season,
allowing good ripening and high
color of fruit. Urea used in this
way supplies only the nitrogen
needed for growth and high
fruit-production, and is therefore
economical,
Urea can be dissolved in pest-
control and fungicidal mixtures
to perform two jobs at once
nitrogen-fertilisation and pest-
control—thus saving time and
labor at the orchardist’s busiest
season. It can be mixed with all
the commonly used sprays
except D.N.O.C. sprays. It is
very soluble, so there are no
troublesome particles to clog the
spray-nozzles, hoses or valves,
When the tank is emptied there
is no sediment to be cleaned out.
Urea is not corrosive to metal,
wood or rubber,
Where urea has been used as
a foliar-fertiliser on apples in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
results have been good: in-
creased fruit-settings, size of fruit
and good health of trees. After
the recommended programme,
bud-formation has been much
increased, tending to reduce the
probability of a light crop every
second year. Trials are under
way to assess the value of urea
in improving the setting of “shy-
bearing” varieties of crops, such
as St. Margaret cherries and
Bobby Alan apricots.
On vegetables urea has been
applied as a foliar-spray at
various rates, and these experi-
ments are still in train. On the
more hardy vegetables, such as
cabbages and rhubarb, weekly
applications of urea at 2-4 oz.
per gallon have caused an im-
proved green leaf-color and
given better sizes than equivalent
dressings of sulphate -of -
ammonia. On young lettuce
with very tender leaves, urea, at
l-2oz. per gallon, has up-graded
quality.
Where spells of heavy rain
have caused a general yellowing
of vegetables in market-gardens,
urea-sprays at 2oz. per gallon
have given quick response. Ad-
vantage of urea-sprays for this
purpose is that they are applied
as a fine mist, to the leaves only.
There is no necessity to water it
in (as with sulphate - of -
ammonia), and so watering of
the already saturated ground is
avoided. It’s fairly quick, too,
with a knapsack-spray —easier
than spreading and watering.
Urea-sprays have been used
with good effect on citrus. As
a result of extensive trials, it
appears that applications should
be made during the three growth-
phases ; that is, spring, summer
and autumn. For spring and
summer applications the urea
can be combined with black-spot
fungicidal sprays or white-oil
sprays for control of scale-pests.
Trees suffering from root-rot,
and therefore unable to absorb
nitrogen from the soil, can be
supplied with nitrogen through
the leaves by urea-sprays. This
is common in South Africa.
Geoff Ireland.
Nitrogen Fixation
“Hortus”: “T.P.” (B.
18/8/’54) did not mention that
soil - inoculation by nodule -
bacteria had an almost religious
starting-point. In France, when
a farmer intended to sow a pad-
dock with clover he arranged
with another successful grower
of the crop to let him have a
couple of loads of soil from his
clover-patch. The local priest
attended, and, while the soil was
scattered over the area, he
blessed the future crop.
The statement “Nitrogen-
fixation doesn’t take place unless
the nodule is adequately supplied
with molybdenum” is rather
misleading. If dolomite, the
average sample of which con-
tains about 20 per cent. Of mag-
nesium-carbonate and about the
same quantity of calcium-car-
bonate, is added to the soil, effec-
tive nodulation takes place,
showing thereby that the soil-
acidity has been neutralised.
This nodule - development is
functioning successfully, for the
tremendous improvement in the
stems and leaves of the crop
must be a sure sign of nitrogen-
fixation.
With all respect to the recent
C.1.R.5.0. publication, “Nitro-
gen-fixation seems to function
a little more favorably if molyb-
denum is present” would be a
more accurate way of putting it.
Elevated Bails
The Victorian Department of
Agriculture “Journal” reports
that several farmers in the
Rochester district last year built
dairies with elevated bails.
These resemble the ordinary
walk-through variety except that
cows stand on raised platforms
about 20in. above floor-level.
Side-walls of each platform slope
inwards to meet the floor at a
line 4in. from where a vertical
wall would meet it. This gives
the operator a 4in. “toe-space”
and allows him to stand closer
to the cow.
At the end of the platform
there is either a step lOin. wide
and lOin. high or a ramp 18in,
long and rising to a height of
lOin. at its high end. A ramp is
also needed to return cows to
ground-level from the end of the
raised exit-race. Additional cost
is small —labor of filling raised
portions of floor and extra
material for walls of platforms,
steps and ramps.
Owners claim they have had
little difficulty in training cows
to enter the bails, although occa-
sional animals don’t take to
them. Cleaning, too, isn’t diffi-
cult. One farmer has a
perforated pipe along the exit-
race wall and another along the
bailing-yard fence. A centrifugal
pump forces water through pipes
and sprays it across the floor
towards the drain.
Advantages claimed for these
bails are that the operator can
work in them without stooping,
that udders are more easily
cleaned, and that mastitis is
more readily detected, as the
cow’s udder is under closer
observation.
A disadvantage is that a cow
can’t be backed-out. If she has
to be held at the dairy for any
reason she must be taken out
through the exit-race and then
back into the yard.
Another criticism of the raised
bails came from a group of
farmers who visited dairies in
which elevated bails are in use.
They said they noticed that cows
had a tendency to jump from
ground-level to the platform (in
the type shown in photograph)
without using the intermediate
step. The question of injury to
a cow with a large, low-swinging
udder arises.
In general, those who have
the elevated platforms seem
satisfied, those who have not
installed them seem doubtful.
Other types of bails mentioned
include those in which cows
stand in a race beside a “milker’s-
alley” at a lower level. In one
such shed there are four pipe-
enclosed bails, end -to - end,
operating independently; a cow
can enter or leave any one of
them while cows in the others
are being milked. The main
trouble here seems to be with
lost time if a man is on his own.
Another shed, on the same
lines, was built more than *3O
years ago. In this, cows don’t
stand parallel to the sunken
milker’s-alley, but at an angle,
with their heads in a feed-
trough on the side of the passage
away from the milker. As the
cows overlap, they occupy less
length of passage than they
would if standing head-to-tail.
Crosscuts
A pilot-plant in the Nether-
lands has been producing urea
at the rate of 10-12 tons per
day. By the middle of 1956
production will be 155 tons per
day, or 50,000 tons per annum.
Netherlands production is
mainly for export,
“Until further results have
been obtained the department
cannot recommend the replace-
ment of soil-dressings of nitro-
gen-containing fertilisers with
leaf-sprays of urea.” (P. Baxter,
Vic. D. of A, research-officer,
commenting on current trials
with apples.)
“Urea is suitable for forcing
applications [for tobacco] since,
in low concentrations, it does
not cause any foliage-burning,
and residues on the leaves are
absorbed directly into the plant,
giving rapid stimulation of
growth.” (F. L. French, in Vic.
D, of A. “Journal”)
*, * •
“C.”: Like rhubarb, asparagus
is a perennial, and can be used
for several purposes. An article
on this page some months bacx
was applicable more to growing
the stuff in a big way. For a
bed in the home-garden, shoots
bought from a reliable supplier
are the shot. Keep them 18m.
apart in single or double rows,
but bed for a double-row should
not be less than 42in. wide.


Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Oa contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40 % lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
fd
OS
CM
2
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
An y particulars gladly tnpplf ad—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: 9.P.0 tie ISBI.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 586. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR UNSEWERED AREAS
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY. HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE
PLANTATION, ETC.
mi
m
THE...
HYCEIfI DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.S.W, Board of Health, Guaranteed •
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage or
sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS ... NO EMPTYING ... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES ... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
mmm
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for S 5 years
1 111 DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: ' Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
Q’LAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), Saunders House, 116 Wickham St.,
The Valley, Brisbane.
VIC.: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
S.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), O.M.L. Building, King William
St., Adelaide.
W.A.: R. P. Mclnemey & Co, Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TAS.; Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.. Melbourne;
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator 00. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome St.,
Auckland.
The new LYSfIGHT
500 BUSHEL GRAIH SILO
saves you money and worry
T-
Prefabricated from heavy
gauge galvanized iron.
Rodent and weatherproof.
Simple to erect.
Permanent asset.
Generous depreciation
allowance for taxation.
§teel floor is part of each
500 Bushel Silo Set.
Ready to erect on Earth
Ring or other Base installed
by the Owner. ■ >
Write for Data Sheet om
Foundations and Bases. <
Enjoy freedom from
• HIGH BAG COSTS
• RATS AND MICE
• DETERIORATION OF
GRAIN IN BAGS
mm
Vi
H
SiiS£2'^
-——^
<74«»
PRICE £7O (AT WORKS) 1
PRICES OF OTHER LVSAGHT SILOS
1,000 Bushel £MB (AT WORKS)
sf
Lysaght Augers are avail-
able for all LYSAGHT
SILOS. Vertical Sets
range from 182)101-
Write for further information and Agents' Names to:
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. CAPITAL CITIES
L47a
Ch.mll n«m enillwnuc
Small Dam-spiliways
F R ttof iSd Msation° n c"m-
non and Irrigation com
mission:
The waterway-areas tables sug-
gested by “Gui (B. 21/7/54), so
far as they relate to dam-spillways,
are inadequate for eastern Australian
conditions, and Talbot’s formula,
from which the quoted waterway
areas are derived, was never intended
to be used for determining the water-
way required for dam-spillways.
It is an approximate formula, used
within certain limits, for calculation
of waterways required for culverts, to
carry stormwater under roads. But
whereas a culvert is circular, rect-
angular or square in section, pro-
viding a deep stream, a properly
designed, safe dam-spillway is wide,
with a relatively shallow flow to keep
velocity of flow within safe limits to
prevent scouring.
“Gui’s” table for a catchment-area
of 150 acres gives a spillway of 24 sq.
ft. in category “C.” A 6ft. x 4ft.
spillway (24 sq. ft. cross-sectional
area) would be capable of discharging
135 cusecs. with a 4ft. “head” or
surcharge and the velocity at the inlet
would be 6 feet-per-second. Both
surcharge and velocity are far in
excess of desirable or safe conditions
for a small" dam-spillway.
Further, a flood-flow of 135 cusecs
is considerably less than would be
obtained from a catchment-area of
150 acres, particularly for “Gui’s”
category “C.”
Sound practice is to design for a
flood-flow resulting from rainfall of
“once in 100 years” intensity. This
does not, of course, imply an intensity
that will occur 100 years hence; it
nay occur next month, next year, or
it any time.
Statistics of rainfall-intensities and
flood-flow calculations are of consider-
able complexity, generally beyond
application by the average landholder,
but a sample rule giving results
approximating those obtained by en-
gineers using more complex calcula-
tions are:
Width of bywash
(in feet) =Kx square root of
catchment in acres
K = 4 for average
slopes
K 5 for steeper
slopes
This is Based on a depth of Ift.
9in. of water over the by wash.
Thus for a catchment-area of 150
acres of average country, a bywash
50ft. wide would be required, and it
would discharge 330 cusecs with a
bywash inlet-velocity of less than 4ft.
per second, with a depth of Ift. 9in.
above the spillway, or 400 cusecs with
a depth of 2ft. over the spillway.
There are flood-flows which might
reasonably be expected in average
undulating country in eastern New
South Wales.
This, it is emphasised, is only an
approximately accurate rule, but it
gives results much more accurately and
more in line with requirements than
Talbot’s formula, which applies to
quite different conditions.
As well as providing for adequate
and S£de bywashes, it is essential to
safeguard all small dams by providing
not less than Ift. 6in. of freeboard-
*e le'fl of .“long
stretch of water is “backed-up” by a
dam, wave action due to wind may be
considerable and additional free-
board must be provided.
Of the almost innumerable
breached dams to be seen in all dis-
tricts, the majority of failures are due
to inadequate bywash capacity, caus-
ing the wafer-level behind the dam
to rise until it overtops at the lowest
point of the bank. It is therefore of
paramount importance that adequate
bywash capacity be provided.
Where a choice is available, catch-
ment-areas for small dams should be,
in eastern N.S.W., of the order of 16
acres for each million gallons of stor-
age required. By so doing, bywash
requirements may be retained at a
reasonable minimum, and at the same
time adequate replenishment of stor-
age will be assured.
Belt Dressing
“Sundowner”: Belt-dressing
is often misused. The Royal
Society for the Prevention of
Accidents, London, states that it
should be used solely as a lubri-
cant for the fibres, and not with
the aim of making the belt pull
an extra load.
As tanning removes the
natural oils from- the leather and
resilience is restored by the
dressing in the course of manu-
facture, this should be continued
while the belt is in service.
Dressing should be applied
only to the outer side of the
belt; in this way the lubricant
is absorbed by the leather with
no danger of interference with
proper contact on the pulley. As
lack of complete, uniform con-
tact with the pulley constitutes a
serious danger to safe running,
it is important that a good-
quality, non-adhesive dressing
be used.
Dressing should be carried out
systematically and as frequently
as condition and quality of belt
require. It is preferable that
dressing be applied either when
the machine is not in motion or
when it is controlled by an inch-
ing-devjce. Apply the dressing
by means of a stick passed
through an opening in the guard-
fencing.
Responsibility should be given
to one man, so that a regular
system can be maintained.
Farm Hints
“T.K.”: Check the cooling-
system of your engine (tractor,
car, truck) before the weather
warms-up. First, fan, fan-belt,
hose-connections. If fan-blades
are flat they won’t draw enough
air through the radiator; make
sure they have the right “set.”
Belt should be checked for ten-
sion, but make sure it isn’t too
tight. Perished hoses are the
cause of most radiator-tube
blockages. Fragments of rubber
get into tubes, rust and dirt packs
over them. So look inside. If
radiator is blocked to any ex-
tent, rod-out tubes. Blowing out
with water, steam and so on
works with mud, but won’t shift
a rubber-rust blockage.
“Big Billy”: Two methods to
protect young fruit-trees from
rabbits: Wind newspaper
around the trunk; or drive in
three stakes, then twist tarred-
twine around them. For latter,
stakes need to be about 20in,
long. Make stakes firm, so that
they don’t lean towards the tree.
At least three complete turns of
twine. Start about 3in. from
bottom, keeping turns about 4in.
apart and continuing until top
round is 12in. from bottom.
This method permits hand-weed-
ing and cultivation and ensures
that machinery is kept away
from a tree.
“Cocko”: To overcome risk
of damage by fighting among
young roosters in the same pen
place a matured cock with them.
He’ll keep order.
“Advance”: Cleaning the
fowlhouse takes less time and is
far more effective if movable
roosts fitted into sockets are
used.
The Weather
by Inigo Jones
After a spell of warm weather, good, fairly general rain
is likely; heaviest on the coast. But the season, so far as it
concerns the middle portion of the continent, depends on
whether the Uranian cycle produces the rains of mid-
November, which will make the difference between a good
season and a bad spring. This cycle, though revived by
the sudden sunspot eruption in March, is uncertain. Its
effects can be seen in the unusually strong succession of
hurricanes in the U.S.A., and these may recur in our North
in the coming summer (mainly in February). The great diffi-
culty is that to analyse all this needs material of seasons
before Captain Phillip entered Port Jackson.


TO
YOUR WORK AT LESS COST
te P
TRftCrO*
5
• CHEAP TO RUN! You know, as every farmer knows, that
a Diesel Tractor is more economical on fuel. The Nuffield
Universal Tractor has a greater number of fuel-maintenance
and labour-saving features than any other.
• EASY TO BUY! THE NUFFIELD DIESEL ROWCROP
TRACTOR £1,053
THE NUFFIELD DIESEL MARK 4 TRACTOR £1,090
9 HAS ALL THESE FEATURES! Standard equipment includes:
Pneumatic tyres, electric lighting and starting, belt pulley,
draw-bar, independent turning brakes, hour meter, sponge seat,
chaff screen and canvas engine cover.
Optional equipment includes: 108" axle, £l5; P.T.0., £l4/18/-;
hydraulic lift and P.T.0., £99/18/-; overload release, £l9; hand
clutch, £6/5/-.
• WILL DO ALL THESE JOBS! The Nuffield Universal Diesel
Tractor will take implements mounted front, middle, rear or
tractor drawn; provision is made for quick, easy hitching of
almost any make or type of implement. Best implements of all
are the ones specially made to match the tractor’s excellence.
• ARRANGE A DEMONSTRATION! Write, call or phone your
Nuffield Dealer and he will arrange a special demonstration on
your property.
s
1
■ AM
n
i *
*
%
100
rask
IH I rSELf
Sold and Serviced by
Authorised Nuffield Distributors
and Dealers Everywhere
BMC
d
mI VERSAI mcroK
Mou. c,,rfh u/aiac* PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-FALKINER
pty OnoontlsnH- HOWARDS LIMITED. South Australia: KINGSWAY
UMlTED^vffitern Australia: PARK LANE MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania:
metro motors pty. ltd.
I
JIJbSjSSL
PRODUCE FOR
PROSPERITY
NT.26.32
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK EDOUARD McTURTON
formerly of 82 Wilmott Avenue Toon-
gabbie West.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GARET RAMONA McTURTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1489 of 1951
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 7th day of January 1955 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. P. DIGNAM, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—o. A. H.
HARMS, Acting Registrar.
dsf
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way u> keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
'each week
THE NEW REGIME
By H.V. CLARKE
SYDNEY OGG, Deputy
Director of Office Furnish-
ings, sat in his carpeted,
sound - proofed office
anxiously gnawing his finger-
nails, Percy Fitch, who was
Deputy Director of Heavy
Machinery on the same salary
as Sydney, was at that instant
conferring with the Co-ordina-
tor-General of Capital Equip-
ment on the proposed reor-
ganisation of the department.
Sydney was worried. He felt an
uncomfortable premonition that
the outcome of the current con-
ference could easily result in his
being reorganised out of his job.
Through the office grapevine
it had come to his ears that
Fitch had been industriously
sowing seeds of an idea which
entailed the abolition of the two
positions of deputy director, and
in their place the creation of one
position which would carry the
title of Assistant Co-ordinator-
General, Fitch’s plan, he sur-
mised, was complete even to
such details as to who should
occupy the position.
What galled Sydney most was
the fact that Fitch’s insidious
scheme was nothing more nor
less than a plagiarism of the logi-
cal amendments he himself had
suggested for the department.
The idea of Fitch drawing more
money in the fortnightly pay-
envelope than himself
was as repugnant to
him as a loathsome
disease —but when he
contemplated the
damage which such an
eventuality would in-
flict upon his own
dignity, prestige and seniority,
thoughts connected with thallium
frolicked abandonedly through
his mind.
Sitting suddenly upright in
his velvet-cushioned swivel-
chair he viciously pressed a
push-button on his desk which
set a bell clanging in the glassed-
in cubicle of his chief-clerk.
“I’ll blitz someone,” he mut-
tered. He always felt better after
he had blitzed someone.
(CLAUDE HARPER was a
self-effacing man of middle-
age. His entire working life had
been confined to the department,
and now with the rank of chief-
clerk most people considered
that he had reached his career
maximum.
He grunted an unprintable
comment when the bell rang, but
hurried across the big room to
the door bearing the plate
marked Deputy Director.
There was a peculiar gleam
in his eye as he entered the
room, which Sydney from past
experience recognised as a
symptom of Harper’s possession
of interesting information.
Diplomatically Sydney deferred
the blitz. “Had your ear to the
ground lately, Claude?” he in-
quired disarmingly.
Harper’s sphinxlike expression
relaxed into a sly grin.
“You remember that requisi-
tion last month for two bull-
dozers and seven electric floor-
polishers for the Department of
Agriculture?” he said.
“Yes, yes.” Sydney nodded
impatiently. “Go on.”
“Well, it seems that Mr.
Fitch regards electric-polishers
as heavy machinery—because
for the past month all corres-
pondence dealing with floor-
polishers has been signed by Mr.
Fitch.”
The hairs on Sydney’s neck
bristled. “More infiltration! ” he
exploded. “I’m tired of Fitch’s
cold-war tactics! ” Calming
slightly, he went on, “If electric
floor-polishers can be classed as
heavy machinery, then I’m a
lady doctor.”
He leaned energetically across
his ebony-topped table and
wrenched the telephone-receiver
from its cradle. Five minutes
later, when the switch girl
answered his call, he had com-
pletely forgotten why he wanted
it.
Harper covered Sydney’s em-
barrassment with a timely utter-
ance. “I’m afraid Mr. Fitch is
rather an ambitious man.”
“A damned unscrupulous one
if you ask me,” Sydney muttered
darkly. Recovering his dignity
he frowned down at a file in
front of him, indicating clearly
to Harper that the interview was
finished.
After Harper had gone Sydney
began drafting a stiff report on
Fitch’s high-handed dealings
with matters that did not con-
cern him. “I’ll be lucky to have
a tea-urn left under my control
if that grabber keeps getting his
own way,” he brooded.
'T'HAT same afternoon the
slightly stooped figure of
Claude Harper could have been
observed making its way into
the crowded bar of the Citizens’
Club. Claude glanced expect-
antly around the bar until his
eyes lighted with pleasurable
recognition upon Percy Fitch
standing solitarily near the large
open fireplace. Percy held a
glass of beer in his hand; and
another glass upon the mantel-
piece obviously awaited a
claimant.
Claude reached for the glass
in the manner of a man practis-
ing a long-established routine,
“How’d the conference go.
Perce?” he inquired after several
satisfying gulps of ale.
“It’s hard to say,” Perce re-
plied, looking cautiously around
him. “They accepted without
question, though, my submis-
sion that there should be an
Assistant Co-ordinator-General.”
Claude nodded approvingly.
“Only the meanest intelligence
would fail to see that,” he
remarked ingratiatingly.
Percy continued, “I spent
most of the afternoon explaining
to them that whereas Syd Ogg is
unquestionably a good man on
matters relating to office equip-
ment, the Co - ordinator -
General’s Assistant would need
to be a man with an overall
grasp on the functions of the
department. Also, he would
need to have a pretty fair tech-
nical knowledge of the more
important types of equipment
handled by the department.
“Mind you, Claude—l’m not
boosting myself, but can you
honestly see Syd Ogg, with the
qualifications he’s got, beating
me for the job?”
Claude shook his head.
“Not that I’ve got anything
against him,” Percy added
hastily. “Syd’s a nice chap, if
only he’d face up to his own
limitations.
“Get me a small one, Claude,”
he continued, realising with a
start that both glasses were
empty.
Claude elbowed his way into
the bar, and a few minutes later
returned to the fireplace.
“I don’t think you have any-
thing to worry about, Perce,” he
remarked, proffering the desired
small one. “Poor old Syd is too
busy trying to undermine you to
do anything constructive for
himself.”
They drank in silent under-
standing, and as Claude prepared
to leave Percy winked conspira-
torially.
“Well, old chap, if- everything
goes according to plan I’ll see
that you’re looked after, too.”
ALMOST three months had
elapsed since the day of the
conference. Two grimly word-
less men paced irritably to and
fro outside a door boldly
labelled Assistant Co-ordinator-
General.
Sydney Ogg, the elder of the
two strollers, suddenly halted
and sheepishly confronted his
companion.
“Well, Percy,” he said. “I
don’t suppose you’d be taking
it any harder than I am.”
Before Percy could sufficiently
subdue his turbulent emotions
to permit an intelligible reply a
prim, efficient-looking female
opened the door and spoke:
“Mr. Harper is ready to see
you now, gentlemen!”
Like schoolboys entering the
Chamber of Horrors, they filed
obediently into the big room.
From behind the polished mag-
nificence of his new executive-
desk, Claude Harper eyed his
visitors coldly across the rims
of his spectacles. Unsmiling he
invited them to be seated —and
the new regime began.
TOWN TO COUNTRY
The country I have never seen
Is flat and featureless,
Inhabited by faceless men.
Despite the vividness
Of your descriptive word, as keen
As pure photography,
The country I have never seen
Is a ghost land to me.
Your climbing a remembered
height,
Riding the rusty plains
In retrospect, and your delight
In long-awaited rains,
The promise of your straggling
herds
These things are real to you,
And while you linger on the
words
I must believe them true.
From my suburban gate the slow
Infinity of stars
Is my familiar wonder, and
From your wide ground is yours;
But while the tight streets prison
me
You find content at home
At home in the strange country
Where I may never come.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


Latest Australian Books
Obtainable From All Recognised Booksellers
THE AUSTRALIAN BUSHLAND, by JAMES WALES AVDAS, F.F.Sc. Australian trees
and wildflowers. 9x6. 712 pages. 200 illustrations. Cloth binding. Robertson &
Mullens, Ltd., Melbourne. 50/-.
A GALLERY OF AUSTRALIAN ART, with an Introduction by HERBERT BADHAM.
Paintings, drawings, sculpture—past and present. 11 x 87. 122 pages. 110 illustrations,
10 in full colour. Cloth binding. Currawong Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 73/6.
ISLES OF THE SUN, by CHARLES BARRETT. Torres Strait, Papua, and New Guinea.
8| x 51. 258 pages. 48 illustrations. Maps. Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd.,
Melbourne, 22/6.
MUSIC AND THE LISTENER, by Hr. KEITH BARRY. A guide to musical understanding.
Seventh Edition, revised. 7J x 5. 132 pages. 10 illustrations. Paper cover. Robertson
& Mullens, Ltd., Melbourne. 5/6.
THE HENTYS: An Australian Colonial Tapestry, by MARY IE BASSETT. 8| x sfi. 598
pages. 54 illustrations. 3 maps, 2of which are endpapers. Cloth binding. Oxford
University Press, Melbourne. 63/-.
CHANGING MELANESIA, by CYRIL S. BELSHAW. Social Economics of Culture Contact.
8| x sf. 208 pages. 3 maps. Cloth binding. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 17/6.
ITALIANS AND GERMANS IN AUSTRALIA, by WILFRED DAVID BORRIE. A Study
of Assimilation. 8J x 57. 236 pages. 39 tables and diagrams. 6 maps. Cloth
binding. F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. 30/-.
COCKATOOS, by BRENT OF BIN BIN. A novel, 8J x sf, 286 pages, doth binding.
Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
COAST TO COAST, edited by CLEMENT BYRNE CHRISTESEN. Australian Short Stories
of Today. 8| x sf. 219 pages. 13 line drawings by Donald Friend. Paper boards, cloth
spine. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
ROAMING ROUND EUROPE, by FRANCIS PATRICK OLUNE. Random Rambles in Paris,
Eire, Iceland, Vienna and Belgium. 8| x sf. 256 pages. 25 illustrations. Endpaper map.
Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 18/9.
PATTERN OF CONQUEST, by LEONARD HERBERT EVERS. Novel on Occupation Army
in Japan. 7% x 5. 280 pages. Cloth binding. Currawong Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney. 16/-.
LECTURES ON GENERAL PATHOLOGY, edited by SIR HOWARD FLOREY. Prepared
by London and Oxford specialists. 9i x 6J. 733 pages. 340 illustrations, 3in colour.
Cloth binding. Melbourne University Press. 84/-.
FOURTEEN MEN AND OTHER POEMS, by DAME MARY GILMORE, 8| x sf. 108
pages. Cloth binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
RED PEPPER, by ROBIN GURR. The Story of an Australian Horse. 7f x 57. 88 pages.
Many line illustrations. Paper boards. Australasian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 5/9.
THE PARISH OF ST. MEL’S AND OTHER VERSES, by JOHN O’BRIEN ( Very Rev.
Monsignor Patrick Joseph Hartigan). 7$ x 5. 13 line drawings by Bonar Dunlop. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 12/6.
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN LONELINESS, by ERNESTINE HILL. Eighth edition.
Travel. 8| x SJ. 846 pages. 21 illustrations. Endpaper maps. Cloth binding. Robertson
& Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 27/6.
MATILDA WALTZES ON, by MARY KENT HUGHES. 8f x ss. 174 pages. 9 illustra-
tions. Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd., Melbourne. 17/6.
THE SHADOW, by VINCENT GATTON KELLY. The amazing exploits of Frank Fahy
whilst a member of the N.S.W. Police Force. 8J x sf. 216 pages. 29 Illustrations. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 17/6.
WHITE TOPEE, by EVE LANGLEY. A novel. 8 x si. 256 pages. Cloth binding, Angus
& Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 16/-.
THE LONELY FIRE, by NANCY MAY McDONALD. Verse. 8f x 6|.’ 68 pages. Cloth
binding. Angus & Robertson Ltd., Sydney. 15/-.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND BOTANY, by Professor JOHN McLVCKIE and Dr.
H. S. McKEE. University textbook on Botany. 8f x 57. 778 pages. 276 illustrations.
Cloth binding. Associated General Publications Pty. Ltd.T Sydney. 84/-.
BROWN MEN AND BED SAND, by CHARLES P. MOUNTFORD. Fourth edition. Journey-
ings in Wild Australia. 8|- x s’i. 184 pages. 26 illustrations. Endpaper maps. > Cloth
binding. Robertson & Mullens Ltd., Melbourne. 25/-.
THE OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. Fifth Book.
A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian area of the Pacific. 7$ x s£. ’
188 pages. 53 line drawings, 4 half tone illustrations. Manilla cover. Oxford University
Press, Melbourne. 4/6.
THE OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOB PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. Fifth Book.
Teacher’s Notes. A teacher’s manual for use with the Fifth Book in this course. 7J x 6J.
68 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 3/9.
THE OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. Sixth Book.
A basic English teaching course for use in the Melanesian area of the Pacific. 7} x 6s.
190 pages. 29 line drawings, 22 half tones. Manilla cover. Oxford University Pm
Melbourne. 4/6.
THE OXFORD ENGLISH COURSE FOR PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA. Sixth Book,
leachers Notes. A teacher’s manual for use with the Sixth Book in the course 7i xSi
88 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 4/- '
THE LEGEND OF THE NINETIES, by VANCE PALMER. The ‘beginnings of an Aus-
tralian national tradition. 8| x sj. 175 pages. Cloth binding. Melbourne University
Press. Zo/-.
GUroE TO GOOD CHESS, by CECIL JOHN SEDDON PURDY. Chess for beginners.
7J x 5. 96 pages. 83 illustrations. Board cover. Associated General Publications Pty. Ltd.,
bj un6y • 9/6«
NA I VOSAVOSA VAKAVITI B SO, by AN ARE K. RAIWALUI. A collection of Fijian
idioms. 5J x 7 i. 68 pages. Manilla cover. Oxford University Press, Melbourne. 4/-.
WALKABOUT, by CORALIE and LESLIE REES. Hitch-hiking in remote
North Australia. 8 xSJ. 288 pages. 15 half tone plates. Endpaper map. Cloth binding.
The Australasian Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 19/6.
BUSH HAVEN ANIMALS, written and illustrated by MARGARET SENIOR. Australian
picture story for younger children. 10| x 10|. Printed on heavy offset paper. Illustrated
in full colour on every page. Varnished board cover. John Sands Pty. Ltd.; Sydney. 7/6.
60 BEACH AND HOLIDAY by PHYLLIS. SHILLITO, Photographs of homes with
plans. 8k x 10 s* -112, pages. 185 illustrations. Board cover. Associated General Publi-
cations Pty. Ltd., Sydney. 10/6.
WHILE HISTORY PASSED, by JESSIE ELIZABETH SIMONS. 8J x 57 I3i
17 half tone and 6 line illustrations. Cloth binding. William Heinemann Ltd., Mel-
bourne. 15/-.
THUNDERBOLT THE FALCON, by C. K, THOMPSON. Juvenile fiction of the Australian
bush 7* xSJ 112 pages. 6 line drawings. CloUi binding. SS
Jutxi.f oydncy. Y/-*
FAIt-AWAY TALES, by ERLE WIESON . Nature myths of sea and shore 7 & x cq
pages. Many line illustrations. Paper boards. The Australasian Publishing Co. Pty.’ Ltd.,
The Australian Book Publishers’ Association
becomes involved in an abortive peasant
revolt. The revolt has been organised by
his syndicalist friends, and is crushed with
singular ferocity by the local Civil
Guard. But, it is implied, the causes of
both revolt and repression are complex
and ancient.
The Civil War begins with a confusion
of shooting, for unintelligible reasons.
Ramiro is in Nationalist territory, and is
pressed into service. Accidentally shot
during an execution, he goes to hospital,
where elderly ladies make patriotic
speeches and hand out religious prints.
The provincial governor makes a
speech;—
In Barcelona, he said, the mobs had shot
the finest patricians, and among the bloody
incidents of which he had received notice
there was one which showed up to what
extent the legions of hell had been unleashed
m the glorious fatherland of Viriato, the
Cid, St. Ignatius, the Gran Capitan, and the
Miralles brothers.,..
Six priests and a bishop were to be
shot. The execution-squad fired but only
one man fell —the bishop;
A sense of scandal and horror went round
at this. And in the midst of it ail a hearty
laugh was heard. It was Ramiro, for whom
the incident had a certain comical character.
What amused Ramiro was the human
vanity of the executioners, each wishing
to bag the biggest game. But this, which-
ever way one looks at it, is rather strong
meat.
Ramiro poses as a wounded hero, and
remains in his native village, where his
brand of humor finds few echoes. He
takes part in an atrocity, and lives to
boast of it. Then, when the Civil War is
over, he applies for, and gets the post of,
public executioner.
What seems to be lacking in all this is
a sense of inevitability. There is a sense
of progression. There is even, at the
end, a sort of heavy finality. There is
technical brilliance to spare. But, every
now and then, when not swept along by
the narrative, there arises the suspicion
that Ramiro is, after all, just a silly
young man. Not a monster, despite the
emotional blunting that is, no doubt,
explicable in terms of abnormal psycho-
logy, but is also intelligible in a witness
of horrors ... not an analogy of Spain,
Europe, humanity, prodded by murder-
ous alternatives and making a final choice
as a sort of spasm of tormented con-
science, as an assumption of responsi-
bility . . . but a trick of the intellect.
Ramiro, in fact, is no more doomed to
become a hangman than this reader is
likely to turn into a mermaid. And
whenever the reader indulges in these
heretical opinions Senor Sender comes
swooping back like the wicked magician
in a fairytale, juggling mountains of
skulls in his face.
That, it seems, is the reason for a good
deal of horrible fantasy that invades the
narrative. The real landscape has horrors
enough. But with it there is a kind of
landscape of the moon, sterile, terrible,
with symbols of headless dogs and talking
skulls. Intelligible in their own terms,
but destructive to art. For here we have
the novelist’s central problem— to create
an earth, and people it with living beings.
To inhabit it with nightmares seems a
final perversity.
But, turned upside-down, this literary
barbarism appears necessary to the
theme. Mention has been made of De
Maistre. Here is a summary by Bowie:
De Maistre proceeds to his well-known
tour de force —the evocation of the execu-
tioner. Who is it that sustains the fabric
of society? Not the king, not the First
Minister, not the highest dignity of the
Church. It is a more humble, a more
sinister figure—the bourreau. In the human
family here is the ultimate authority. A
strange being, set apart, he lives in queer
solitude, alone with his mate and brood.
When the day for duty arrives, the execu-
tioner appears before the seething crowd.
Some criminal —a poisoner perhaps—awaits
him. He proceeds to break him on the
wheel. Soon the horrible silence is broken
by the crack of bones. As they splinter
beneath the iron, come screams of agony.
Then the criminal is detached. He is
deposited upon the wheel, broken legs
entangled with the spokes. With drooping
head, with parched and gaping mouth, with
matted hair, the victim can utter only the
bloody words that pray for death.
Before this ghastly spectacle, what are
the feelings of the executioner? If he is
a good professional, they are exultant. His
heart beats high; not with pity, but with
pride. No one, he says, can break a man
as well as I do —“mil ne roue mieux que
moi: I am the best executioner in the
world.” And so, passing through the ranks
of his shrinking fellows, the bourreau
collects his pay. Back at home, he sits
down to a good meal.
Tiie resemblance is really remarkable.
As, again, the somnambulistic killers in
The Affable Hangman seem to derive
from De Maistre’s concept of mankind
as “innocent murderers.”
Joseph de Maistre, brother of Xavier
(author of Voyage autour de ma
Chambre ) was an early-19th-century
•writer and administrator who has been
described as “combining an Augustinian
conviction of original sin with a
Hobbesian political pessimism.” He has
been accused of being an arch-forerun-
ner of Fascism, but, according to Bowie,
his ideas are “more patristic.” He was
opposed to rationalist and scientific ten-
dencies in his time and, in his writings,
showed a Manichaean hatred of the flesh.
This, too, is echoed in The Affable
Hangman. Horribly, when Ramiro’s first
love is accidentally poisoned: a vision of
fair young flesh growing bloated and
monstrous. Insidiously, in Ramiro’s
affair with a beautiful Argentinian,
when, as she quotes Baudelaire, Ramiro
drifts into a world of nightmare. More
delicately, in the story of La Canamon,
the prostitute, whom Ramiro took to a
country which terrified her. The story is
quite without coarseness, and rises to a
dramatic peak in the cruel charivari given
to the couple by the peasants. But, in
sum, the novel has two grave defects as
a work of art. There is no delight in life
as a spectacle, and, in its narrow analysis
of a dark section of European thought,
there is an implied attack on life itself.
The fact that Sender has made a subtle
and fundamental attack on these particu-
lar influences, in the long run, makes
no difference. It is a sort of negation of
a negation—a familiar intellectual sport.
Someone Like You: Roald Dahl
(Seeker & Warburg). More books of
short-stories like this collection —varied,
accomplished, expert without a trace of
slickness —and the moan that short-stories
won’t sell would surely be heard no more.
The author, bora in Wales of Norwegian
parents, has travelled a lot and lives now
in the U.S., where most of these tales were
published, some of (hem in “New
Yorker.” His cosmopolitan background,
however, is more apparent in the urbanity
of his style and presentation than in the
settings, which are nearly all either
English or American. Most of the stories
have a twist to the plot— not in the way
of an O. Henry trick-ending, but arising
from some logical (once you see it) factor
implicit either in characters or situation.
Dahl can be serious, but his criticisms
make their impact by implication. One
cannot, either, think of any writer since
Saki who could so perfectly and wittily
write of horrid types—not that all the
characters here are such, but some of
them are, and they perpetrate examples
of the double double-cross of a standard
this reader scarcely expects to see again.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 296
Across
I—Murderer changes a plea that the
opponent’s arguments don’t help
his case. (8)
6 —Repairer who finishes off a
thousand? (6)
10— Cadet reporter seen with an
American from the Caribbean.
(5)
11— Intermittently, both halves of the
cricket ground are concerning an
enthusiastic supporter and Brad-
man. (3, 3,2)
12 — Got through in spades, and did
not bid, either. (6)
14 —A private American way to accom-
modate the stock of others. (5)
17 —Turn to her sagacious alternative.
(9)
19 — Our fleet exhibited fleetness. (3)
20 — These reasonable fellows fairly
apportion a duelling ground. (12)
22 —Gas ten spies? (6, 6)
24—Poseidon’s domain. (3)
26 — A minister has this wine of inver-
sion with oil likewise given. (9)
27 A little more than a description
for a stage personality named
Muriel who was popular with
Australians a generation ago. (5)
28 — Puts the shoulder to male birds.
(6)
31 —Strike punctuation carelessly done,
(8)
33 — Aladdin’s helper. (5)
34 — Don’t stop talking hypocritically
in an eastern city province for the
Swiss to conserve weight. (6)
35 —More irritable frame upon which
to bear the dead crustacean to
the grave. (8)
Down
1— Tree is adored in a different way.
(6)
2 Bungle an opportunity in a crum-
pet batting after a hand-warmer.
(6)
3 Boy is taken from irons. (3)
4 One comically misrepresented in
a thrifty manner. (12)
5 A poultry establishment, but it
puts an end to any duck. (3)
6 Chart one in the Parliamentarian.
(3)
7 Girl's name. (3)
8— Miss Diana’s first fire. (7)
9 Compensate a Communist about a
steamer and about apparel. (7)
13 —Blower obeys this cricketer who
delivers pennies and trey-bits.
(6, 6)
15— Clark is to talk too much to the
French. (5)
16 — This gives a fleet a confused help
to a fortune-teller. (3, 4)
18 —Tells shows the affinity between
the Italian king and the little
Louisiana setback. (7)
21— Monkey in the middle gives
thanks by a candle to narrow
towards the end. (5)
22 Pops up with a greeting inter-
rupting a police constable with
regard to a Greek poetess. (7)
23 — Trance I disturb for sure. (7)
24 Hunting expedition a long way
off its centre. (6)
25 — Tell such a bowman to take her
curve first, though more waggish.
29 I. (3)
30— Nip copper. (3)
31— This is so Latin. (3)
32 — Republic’s relics are not men-
tioned in the hotel. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 295


-Vv-
•v • h yj-Mj
T '>*■ ■
' ■ 'f& yt
i>
rjH
a;
V*
M
«S
&
\
3K
Wm
S?
Sa?
“Big Eildon
99
Lying in a valley up in the thickly wooded mountain country
at Eildon, Victoria, the tranquil expanse of the Eildon Reservoir
mirrors the blue sky and the rugged green slopes that swoop
to meet it from the heights above.
Until a little while ago, nothing disturbed the quiet scene.
Then came surveyors, then men and machines —such machines
the peaceful valley had never known: machines and allied
equipment, worth an estimated £3,400,000, to embark on the
gigantic task of moving millions of tons of earth and i ock in
the building of “Big Eildon,” the largest earthen dam in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Plans to enlarge the Eildon Reservoir “Little Eildon”
were commenced by the Victorian State Rivers and Water
Supply Commission some eleven years ago/ The project will
double the primary production in the fertile Goulburn Valley
irrigation area and will have great influence on Victoria’s
economic wealth.
It is anticipated, too, that the “Big Eildon” plan could increase
the State’s population by 100,000.
• •••••
Into the vast new reservoir will go the water from the 1,500-
square-mile catchment area of high, mountain country, where
the average rainfall varies from thirty inches near Eildon to
eighty inches at Mt. Buller.
It is hard to visualise what tremendous things are being done,
but here are some figures which will give an idea of the
immensity of the project; The new reservoir will hold
7,000,000,000,000 gallons of water, a volume sufficient to
supply the needs of a city of 1,000,000 for thirty years and
enough water to cover an area three times that of Sydney
Harbour; into the massive wall that will hold back the waters
will go 1.3,000,000 cubic yards of earth and rock, with 200,000
cubic yards of concrete for the spillway and outlet channel;
the embankment will be more than half a mile long and 260
feet high.
Apart from the specialised equipment used in the tunnelling
operations, the earth-movers are everywhere excavating,
dragging, scooping and loading tons of earth each minute.
Playing a mighty part are the “big yellow machines,” powerful
diesel-operated Caterpillar track-type Tractors. Fitted with
’dozer blades, they’re clearing, pushing, piling, levelling.
Harnessed to giant scrapers and loaders, their rugged power
and sure-footed steel tracks are moving tremendous loads of
soil. Day in, day out, they’re on the job. When, finally, the
great “Big Eildon” project is completed, the “big yellow
machines” will have written yet another page of achievement
in the book of the nation’s development.
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
Distributors:
N.S.W.: WAUGH & JOSEPHSON LTD.. SYDNEY.
OLD.; HASTINGS DEERING (QLD.) PTY. LTD..
BRISBANE.
VIC.: WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD..
MELBOURNE,
TAS.; WILLIAM ADAMS TRACTORS PTY. LTD*
HOBART.
W. AUST.: WIGMORES LTD.. PERTH.
S. AUST.: THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., ENFIELD.
N. TERRITORY; HASTINGS DIESELS LTD., ALICE
SPRINGS.
T. GUINEA; HASTINGS DIESELS (NEW GUINEA)
LIMITED, v LAE.
CNS3.FPB
